
Ole' man river 
To kill or not to kill 
Residents along the Mississippi River fight to 
Wednesday
A reader writes in about Timothy McVeigh 's 
protect their homes against the rising banks result­
upcoming execution and the controversy of his 
ing from melting snow and rain storms. 
punishment. 
APRIL 18, 
World & Nation . page 5 
Viewpoint . page 13 
2001 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 123 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



Gunmen strike 2 off-campus homes 

. Armed robberies net 5 arrests, spur moves to campus 
By JASON McFARLEY News Editor 
Two armed robberies of off­campus residences late last week have resulted in the arrests of five suspects and prompted University interven­tion on behalf of the more than a dozen student victims of the break-ins. 
South Bend police said about 60 counts of armed robbery were filed Monday in the St. Joseph Superior Court against the suspects. The alleged assailants, who range in age from 16 to 18, were arrested Saturday night in connection with a pair of seemingly relat­ed robberies at off-campus Notre Dame student parties on 
Thursday and Friday. Creek apartment complex, 
According to police reports, said Capt. John Williams, around 11 p.m. Thursday South Rend Police Department three of the suspects invaded public information officer. The an East Howard Street home incident at Turtle Creek, pop­where about a dozen Notre ular among University stu­Dame students, several of dents as an off-campus hous­them men's lacrosse players, ing option, again involved 
were  present.  about a  dozen  
After the masked gun­men rushed  "We pretty routinely assist victims ofcrime  students at a social gathering and three  
into the home, at least nine students ran  when situations like these arise.,,  masked gun­men who forced their way into  
upstairs to the  the  residence  
attic,  while  Bill Kirk  and  ordered  
three male stu­dents were forced to  assistant vice president for student affairs  occupants to remove their clothes.  
undress  and  A  police  

robbed of their clothing, wal­report indicates that a 21­lets and watches, the report year-old female student at the said. apartment alleged that she 
A second home invasion pos­was sexually assaulted by one sibly involving the same sus­of the suspects. The woman pects occurred about 11 p.m·. was examined at a local hospi­Friday night at the Turtle tal following the alleged inci­
dent, the report said. 
Merchandise taken from the apartment included cash, jew­elry, music equipment, com­pact discs and several laptop computers, police said. 
Williams said at least a few of the same students attended both nights' functions and were robbed twice. He would not disclose, however, if the suspects had targeted the stu­dents or had followed them to the Turtle Creek locale Friday. 
A confidential informant contacted police Saturday night and led to the _arrests of the five suspects, Williams said. He said pending the out­come of the investigation, there is a possibility of more arrests. 
Since learning of the crimes late Friday, Notre Dame offi­cials have played a role in restoring students' sense of 
see CRIME/page 4 

Roemer: budget has winners and losers 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
News Writer 
For lndiana third district Congressman Tim Roemer. America's fascination with the federal budget isn't all that dif­ferent from the sportsmanship lessons he teaches his sons' tee ball team. 
As a parent coach for his two eldest in Washington, D.C., Roemer's coaching philosophy is simple -play every child in every position to foster their development. So when the least­adroit young athlete begged to play shortstop, Romer agreed, and sent the youngster out to the field. After the player's stel­lar catch and subsequent pitch to first base, Roemer thought his team was in the clear -until his first baseman was picking dandelions. 
After the game, his son cheer­fully asked the score of the game -knowing there were definite winners and losers. Not satisfied with his father's answered that the games weren't scored, he informed his father: "l knew you were going to say that. That's why I kept score. We won 38 to 36." 
America's love for keeping the federal budget's score is no dif­
ferent.  Roemer  sad  in  an  
address  at  Saint  Mary's  
Tuesday.  

"We Americans love to keep score, love to keep track of A and B ledgers, love to keep track of who's winning and who's los­ing," he said. "We want to know who are the winners and who are the losers." 
Roemer touched on the win­ners and losers in President Bush's federal budget proposals, highlighting specific areas in education and health and human services that were of concern. Roemer, a member of the Congressional education committee, focused primarily on the impacts of Bush's proposed initiatives for education. 
Citing statistics that Bush's proposed educational spending increase is earmarked at 4.6 billion dollars -an approximate 
11.5 percent increase -Roemer pointed out that 2.1 billion of that increase was already apportioned for a spending increase by the education com­mittee last year. The net increase in educational spending in the Bush budget, therefore, was only 5.9 percent kinder overall. 
The increase Roemer and the rest of the education committee would like to see, however, is not an overall increase, but an increase targeted at early edu­cation. 
"We have proposed -just for elementary and secondary edu­cation -a 7 billion dollar increase," Roemer said. 
The targeted increase is meant to counteract increased testing procedures the president would like to initiate -procedures that won't be effective unless invest­ments are made in the schools to help students achieve, Roemer said. 
The Bush plan -which would see increased state testing ­would also mandate national testing to standardize state achievement tests. Those tests would particularly impact schools like Green Elementary in Elkhart, where up to 80 students are enrolled in ESL (English as a second language) programs, and have a high transfer rate of stu­dents in and out of the district. Schools like Green, Roemer said, 


Bush 
confirms 
speech 
By LAURA ROMPF 

Associate News Editor 
Notre Dame officially announced Tuesday that President Bush will be the principle speaker and recipient of an h o n ­
o r a r y doctor of 
. 1 a w s degree at the Univer­sity's 1 5 6th Comm­encement exercises May 20. Several Notre Dame alumni, who are current members of Congress, wrote a joint letter to President Bush requesting the visit. "I hope he is coming because he wants to come, but we did have several people close to him put in a good word for us," said Denny Moore, director of public relations. Moore said Condoleeza Rice, the current National Security Advisory and Notre Dame alumna, encouraged Bush to make the visit. Bush previously visited the University three times, most notably on March 7, 1980 for the University's Mock Republican Convention to rally support for his father's presidential candidacy. Because Bush is only speaking at Notre Dame and the Naval Academy, Moore said this confirms Notre Dame's status as a top national institution. "We think of ourselves as a prominent university and a good forum for the President of the United States to address the nation," Moore said. "And the President coming cer­tainly validates that state­ment." The following people will also receive honorary degrees from the University at the graduation ceremo­ny: John Bahcall, Father Cyprian Davis. Marilou Eldred, Louis Gerstner, John Jordan, William Kennedy, Archbishop Giuseppe Pittau and Sara Martinex Tucker. 
The ceremony will begin at 2 p.m. on May 20 in the Joyce Center. 


need additional funding to pro­vide extra programming to help these students learn. 
"If we're going to mandate state tests, we feel its very important to provide the invest­ments to do remediation," Roemer said. "If we don't start to rcmediate those students to get them up to speed ... those children are going to fall further and further behind." 
Wednesday, April 18, 2001

page2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Picking our fights 
This weekend I watched a truly thought pro­voking NBC special on television that focused on the problems with heroin in our nation. 
The program described how the number of heroin addicts grows exponentially across the country everyday. The addiction to heroin is so 
powerful and overwhelming, that addicts cannot take themselves olT of it without suffering from nearly intoler• able withdrawal symptoms. 
The United States, to put it simply, is loosing its war on drugs. 
The drug war has proved 

itself progressively more Nate Phillips
futile because the govern­
ment lacks the appropriate 
resources and finances to 
effectively stop the produc­Copy Hditor 
tion of drugs at their source. 
This problem exists in part because the government wastes their resources prosecuting minor drug offenders. A large amount of anti-drug money is spent trying to eliminate marijuana -a virtually harmless, mildly psychedelic drug -from the American culture. 
In my opinion, this is a complete waste of gov­ernment attention. that should be aimed solely at preventing potentially lethal and horribly addic­tive drugs deadly like cocaine and heroin. 
Through and through, the benefits of legalizing marijuana are overwhelming. 
First of all. marijuana has been medically proven to not be physically addictive, and has never been known to cause an overdose fatality. The British medical journal Lancet editorialized in 1995 that "the smoking of cannabis, even long term, is not harmful to health." 
Alcohol, in contrast, is known to be addictive, is catalytic in the development of liver damage, and severe alcohol poisoning can prove fatal. 
But, despite these glaringly contradictory facts. marijuana is prohibited and alcohol remains legal. 
Since 1937, the U.S. government has been waging war against marijuana users. According to the federal Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, 70-plus million Americans have used marijuana at lea.st once in their lifetime. 
Nevertheless. despite these statistics, the gov­ernment wastes its resources and efforts on mar­ijuana users -nearly 700,000 people were arrested for marijuana violations in 1998. 
By legalizing marijuana, the government would not only open up huge amounts of prison space for the serious drug offenders, but it would also create more resources to fight against the more serious drugs. Also, the legal sale of marijuana could be taxed which could directly help finance the drug war. 
Up to this point, I have not been an avid sup­porter of marijuana rights. After some research, however, it is apparent that our resources are being wasted fighting a virtually harmless sub­stance. 
As a nation we need to take a stand against the hard drugs that pollute and destroy the lives of many of America's young people. We need to do everything in our power to prevent the produc­tion, distribution and use of drugs like cocaine and heroin. 
We need to prioritize our resources and place all of our efforts in fighting against the truly sig­nificant drug threats that our nation faces. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Maureen Smithe Laura Kelly Nate Phillips Graphics Amy Greene Katy Hall 
Sports Lab Tech Molly McVoy Amanda Hughes 
Viewpoint 
Pat McElwee 
The Observer (USl'S 599 2-4000) is publi,hed Monday through F,it.lay except during rx.,m and vacation period.. The Ob,c:rvcr is a mernlx,r of ,he Auociarcd Pross. AJJ rrproducrion rights= rrs,:rvcd. 
THIS WEEK IN SOUTH BEND  
Wednesday  Thursday  Friday  Saturday  
. Concert:CarlSandburg  . Event: Gridiron Legends  . Event: Broadway  . Fundraiser: St. Joseph  
and the Guitar of Andres  Luncheon Series with Lou  Theatre League • "Jekyll &  County Soil and Water  
Segovia, Hesburgh Center,  Holtz, College Football  Hyde," Morris Performing  Conservation District Tree  
7 p.m.  Hall of Fame, 12:30 a.m.  Arts Center, 7:30 p.m.  Sale, St. Joseph County  
. Event: Interfaith  . Movie: "Traffic,"  . Movie: "The  Fairgrounds, all day  
Christian Night Prayer,  DeBartolo 101, 10:30 p.m.  Contender," Debartolo  . Event: Tulip Festival,  
Walsh Hall Chapel.  101, 10:30 p.m.  Peabody Hetirement  
10 p.m.  Community, 1 p.m.  

Compiled from U-Wire reports


OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Students walk out on Horowitz at UC-Davis 
DAVIS, Calif. majority.
"David Horowitz is a little 
In his visit to the University of Halfway through the talk, nearly
racist. The big racists are the
California-Davis campus Monday two thirds of the audience stood up. night, conservative political com­ones that are paying him." turned their backs to Horowitz and mentator David Horowitz -the slowly filed out. As a symbol of the author of a controversial advertise­protest, which was organized by
Naseem Beauchman
ment against reparations for slavery UCO student organization 100 Black

UC-Davis sophomore
-steered his speech away from the Scholars, demonstrators wore all issue of repayment when addressing black clothing. over 100 demonstrators present. "David Horowitz is a little racist." 
Upon taking the stage, Horowitz said sophomore Naseem
-And Racist Too" has sparked 
was greeted by a group of students Beauchman. "The big racists arc the
nationwide debate about reparations 
who chanted and held up a sign that ones that are paying for him to
and freedom of speech on today's
read, "David Horowitz is the racist of [speak]."
college campuses. 
the year." Horowitz, a former liberal who has
While Horowitz said the controver­
"We had a lot of people show up been a civil rights advocate since
sy surrounding his ad has made peo­
tonight to demonstrate that they 1948, said leftist politics have not
ple more aware of the reparations
can't handle ideas," Horowitz said helped African American communi­
issue, he said it has also illuminated 
toward the end of his talk. ties. As evidence, he cited inner city
the "inexcusable conditions on col­
The ad, entitled "Ten Reasons Why school systems that are run primari­
lege campuses." He said non-liberal 
Reparations for Slavery is a Bad Idea ly by "liberals."
ideas are suppressed by the leftist 
UCLA

UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA 

Task force reviews crime stats
Businesses argue against the SAT 
LOS ANGELES

PHILADELPHIA 
A task force commissioned by the University of
American business leaders are urging college adminis­
California reported Friday that though there is much
trators to de-emphasize the role of the SAT in evaluating 
room for improvement, past underreporting of crime sta­
applicants, claiming the exam is biased and a poor pre­
tistics for UC campuses was not deliberate. Following its 
dictor of future success. In a strongly worded letter, 
investigation of UC Davis, Irvine and Riverside, the task
executives from companies such as Gillette and Verizon 
force recommended the UC reconcile varying crime defi­
Communications, led by the National Urban League, 
nitions in the FBI, California Penal and Clery Act codes.
argued Wednesday that the test does not help predict 
The task force also recommended that the UC develop a
students' career success. "In corporate America, we rou­
uniform format for reporting UC crimes and implement
tinely place bets on people, including many top-flight 
an ongoing training program and information exchange
executives, who may not have excelled 'on paper,' but 
for all campuses. Overall, the task force found well­
who demonstrated the leadership, grit and determina­
intended efforts in reporting statistics. "Clearly no cam­
tion needed to succeed," the letter read. The letter coin­
pus' intent was to mislead parents and students about
cides with the release of a study from the National 
the safety of its campuses," said Michael Reese, assistant
Urban League in which 96 percent of the business exec­
vice president of strategic communications for the UC
utives surveyed felt that standardized test scores are 
Office of the President. The task force, which includes
"not very important" to succeed in business. Debate on 
UCLA's Chief of Police Clarence Chapman, was formed in
the SAT's aptness in judging students' abilities arose 
response to articles published September 2000 by The
most recently when the University of California that it 
Sacramento Bee and Los Angeles Times. 
may stop requiring the test of applicants. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
S Day South Bend Forecast 

The AccuWeathe~ forecast for noon.Wednesday, April 18.
AccuWeather"forecasl for daytime conditions and hi h temperatures 
' ,\ , 
i \ 

Saturd: 
y Sunda~ 

...................
.......... 
cow WARM S fATIONA.RY 

. CJ CJ . D 
Rain T-•torm• Flun1•• Snow le• Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy

Mon~'~'~"f'l.,d 

V,,NLIOCi,IIOOPres!J 

:,.,··· ' Atlanta 64 52 Las Vegas 74 60 Portland 56 40 
Baltimore 54 37 Memphis 70 62 Sacrarnenro 61 48

q_Q_Q_pGQi) ~ u 
Boston 40 27 Milwaukee 50 43 SI. Louis 51 48
Showets T-storms Rain Flumes Snow lc;e Sunny Pt. Cloud)' Cloud, ..,,. Auo,ci,atetJ p,.u OraphbNal 
Chicago 48 40 New York 42 34 Tampa 78 54 Houston 78 67 Philadelphia 44 36 Washington DC 55 44 
,-------­
Wednesday, April 18, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Retired ND art prof Luack dies at 93 
Special to The Observer 
Father Anthony "Tony" Lauck, professor emeritus of art at Notre Dame, died at Holy Cross House at 3:40 p.m. on floly Thursday after a long ill­ness. 
A native of Indianapolis, Ind., Lauck was born Dec. 30, 1908. He received a diploma in fine arts from the John Herron Art School in Indianapolis in 1936 and entered the Congregation of 1-loly Cross as a postulant the following year. He graduated from Notre Dame in 1942, studied theology at Holy Cross College in Washington. D.C., for four years and ordained to the priesthood June 24, 1946. 
Before joining the Notre Dame faculty in 1950, Lauck studied sculpture at the Corcoran School of Art, Columbia University. State University of New York. the Cranbrook Academy and Alfred University. He also made a year-long study tour of European art museums. 
From 1950-73 he taught at Notre Dame and served on the staff of Moreau Seminary. where he also lived. He was chairman of Notre Damels art department from 1960-67. After his retirement, he contin­ued his art work and remained in residence at Moreau until his declining health required him to move to Holy Cross House in 1998. 
Works by Lauck abound on 
the Notre Dame campus. 
Among the most visible are a 
massive replica of his statue of 
the Visitation on the south side 
of the Eck Visitors' Center, the stained glass windows in the chapel and library or Moreau Seminary, the statue of Our Lady of the University at the Main Circle of the campus. and the statue of Blessed Brother Andre Bessette, C.S.C., in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. The many honors and awards he received for these and other works include a 1980 honorary degree in fine arts from Notre Dame. 
Lauck was unable to name a favorite among his many works. 
"Whatever you're doing this moment is what you give all you've got into," he said. Nevertheless, he did admit a special fondness for his depic­tion of Brother Andre. He sel­dom lacked inspiration. "Ideas keep popping out and you want to do all of them." he said. "If you do a wood carving, three or four ideas come along before you're done. l really cherish them. I hope they keep coming." 
There is one notable omis­sion in Father Lauck's vast and wide ranging legacy of art works. ''I've never done the Madonna," he once admitted, adding that he felt somewhat intimidated by the challenge of depicting Mary's Child. 
Lauck is survived by one brother, John Lauck of Indianapolis; a sister, Mrs. Agnes Lauck Darko of Vista, Calif.; and by 20 nieces and nephews. 
A funeral Mass was celebrat­ed celebrated April 17 in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart followed by burial in the Holy Cross community cemetery. 
Author urges women to refocus 
By MYRA McGRJFF 
Saint Mary's Edimr 
Some women need to refocus on their lives in order to stand independently strong, said Esperanza Zendejas in her lec­ture "Success for The 21st cen­tury'' Tuesday night. 
Using references from her novel "The Tame Cactus" and experiences' as the former superintendent of the Indianapolis public school sys­tem, she discussed what initia­tives women might take to focus themselves on attainable goals. 
"The most successful motiva­tion comes from within," said Zendejas. 
Zendejas first observed this trend while writing her disser­tation at Stanford University about women serving on school boards. Zendejas noticed in her research women often feared standing on their own. 
Socialization kept women from doing activities they wanted to do but only talked about, she said. 
To help women get up and fulfill the goals they want. Zendejas urged women to be willing to take risks and change their lives. In some cases, women would have to go out side their comfort zone. 
"The more confidence the more risk one is willing to take, [the better]," said Zendejas. 
More importantly, Zendejas recommends women must find what they are driven to do to choose their path. Women must find other women they admire and will inspire them, helping them stay better focused 
She also urges women to "plant" themselves in a direc­tion to help them know what steps to take to complete that direction. If women are able to complete a direction or goal, more confidence is built and more risk are taken. 
"Those with feet that don't know where they are going are the ones that lack the confi­dence," said Zendejas. 
On the road to empower­ment, Zendejas also calls for women to keep two main points in mind. First, women must learn to complete the circles they start. The second point, Zendejas said, is that women should be aware of the issues that must have closure. 
On the same note. she lets women know that in the effort to come full circle mistakes will be made. Some of those mis­takes will have consequences that may motive us to push harder to reach a goal. Whatever the mistake or conse­quence, she stresses that those incidence can only make a per­son stronger keep women on their goal. 
''We are going to make mis­takes that are correctable." Zendejas said. 
Cornell discusses civil rights 
By TIM LOGAN Senior Staff Writer 
It was 1964. 
Tom Cornell was in Selma, Ala., after the famous civil rights march there. He was with a group of fellow activists, watching President Lyndon Johnson address Congress about the need to guarantee voting rights to black Americans. The civil rights movement was at its peak. Cornell and other activists had been fighting, nonviolently, for years, and now they were watching as the leader of the free world 
Love Kids? Tired of"Drop-ln" Tutoring? 
Bnil•l a lasting relationship with a child thro11gh reading and/or athletics with: 
TIAMWOllf rOI TOMOIIOW 
OJ NOTII _,AMI 
Teamwork for Tomorrow is a community outreach organization committed to brightening the fi1tures of children through alternative educational programming in the areas ofliteracy, athletics and mentoring. 
Informational Meetings: Wednesday April 18 and Thursday April 19 
8pm 

Basement ofFarley Hall 
Pick up an application at the meeting or contact: Rocclno.4@11d.ecl11 or Foy.4@ncl.ec111 
publicly came to their side. 
As Johnson finished his address he said, in his Southern-tinged accent, "We Shall Overcome," and the activists, even Martin Luther King, Jr., wept. 
"We knew we had won," Cornell said. "Finally we'd won something. Nonviolence had made its mark." 
And nonviolence is the best way to implement social change, Cornell said Tuesday. He is a leading member of the Catholic Worker movement and veter­an of Vietnam and civil rights protests, and he told especially in the Church, what could be done through passive resistance. 
He told a story to illustrate this. 
In 1963, no one was protesting U. S. involvement in Vietnam. Cornell lived in New York at the time, work­ing for the Catholic Worker Movement. One day, a friend came into the office with a picture of a Buddhist monk who had self-immolated in Saigon to protest the war and asked, "what can we do about this?" 
Cornell was not sure, but 
he had an 
idea. He and 

stories of another
"We have to regain the 
his experi­friend began
prophetic tradition. Do
ences to a standing group of justice, work mercy, walk outside the about 40 Manhattan
humbly with your God. " 
students home of the and faculty Vietnamese at the Tom Cornell representa­
Center for civil rights activist tive to the 
Social Concerns. 
Dignity, compassion and equality are at the heart of passive resistance, Cornell said. It is what protesters demand, and it is what they must give to those whose policies they protest. 
"The racist on the other side of the barricade is still a human being, and nothing he does is going to make that different," Cornell said. "We must enable the antagonist a reasonable means to main­tain his dignity and preserve his honor." 
Cornell encouraged his mostly-student audience to take advantage of their opportunities and get involved.~People with access to education, he argued, can take the risks necessary to engage in nonviolent protest. 
Nonviolence as a means of social change has re-entered the mainstream since the late l 950s, Cornell said. The Civil Rights Movement and the Vietnam Era showed people, 
United 

Nations with a sign criticizing America's role in the war. One day Cornell would be there, the next his friend would. Meanwhile, they distributed leaflets asking people to join on the 10th day of the protest. 
When that day arrived, 250 people showed up to protest the fighting. This was July 26, 1963. 
'That was the beginning of it," Cornell said. "We had no idea that in a couple of years, time we'd have hundreds of thousands, even millions, of people out there." 
The lifelong activist encouraged his audience to follow the example of Christ and spread his word of non­violence and brotherhood through social action. 
"We have to regain the prophetic tradition," he said. "Do justice, work mercy, walk humbly with your God." 
The talk was sponsored by Pax Christi. 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 18, 200 I 
McCullough program 
combines journalism, 
public policy studies 
Special to The Ob,crv"t 
An innovative new graduate fellowship program at the University aimes to reduce the rancor in American politics by offering students the opportunity to pursue advanced studies in journalism and public policy with an emphasis on cultivating a gentler political climate in the nation. 
Initially funded by a $1-million gift from philanthropist Jane Bradley Pettit of Milwaukee, Wis., the McCullough Program in Government and Journalism is designed to increase the civility of political discourse in the country, and will provide stipends to student<; preparing for careers in politics, government or journal­ism with an emphasis on writing about governmental affairs. It also will be open to graduate students interested in teaching pub­lic policy, government or journalism. 
The program is named for 1955 Notre Dame graduate John McCullough and his wife. Sandra. of Milwaukee. McCullough was the long-lime principal news anchor for WTMJ-TV, the NBC affil­iate in Milwaukee. The McCulloughs are long-time friends of Pettit and plan to match her $1-miliion gift. 
The program includes basic courses required for advanced degrees in Notre Dame's Department of Government and International Studies, and also requires participants to take a course every semester in ethics, morality and fairness. 
"With this program, Notre Dame graduates will be able to soft­en the political rhetoric in our country," said University President Father Edward Malloy. 
A. James McAdams, chair of the Notre Dame government department and program designer, said it will provide an impor­tant new ingredient at all levels of American politics. 
"Not only will those students leaving this fellowship be trained in government theory and operation, they also will do the peo­ple's work without the rancor and bitterness that has permeated political discourse recently -in both parties," he said. 
The first participants will begin the McCullough Program at Notre Dame in the fall 2001 semester. 
CriDie 
continued from page 1 
security. 
"We pretty routinely assist victims of' crime when situa­tions like these arise," said Bill Kirk, 
assistant vice pres­ident for student affairs. 
Kirk said he and Hex Rakow, 

director Kirk of Notre Dame Security/Police, on Friday received word of both incidents and subscqucnlly accompanied two student victims to a local hospital and arranged temporary housing all the students. 
University officials over the weekend remained in con., tact with students, ensuring their well-being and offering any needed assistance, Kirk said. 
On-campus housing options were offered to all the students. and as of Tuesday at least eight had accepted invitations to move into undergraduate resi­dence halls for the remain­der of the semester, Kirk 
said.  
"We  wanted  to  make  
arrangements to  accommo­ 
date  students  so  they  

wouldn't have to reside in their home or apartment where they might not feel comfortable," Kirk said. 
lie said Notre Dame administrators are planning a meeting for the students on Thursday with represen­tatives from the St. Joseph County Prosecutor's Oflice. 

TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
The Students' 1st choice in Off-Campus Housing 
DON'T WAIT APPLY TODAY!!!! 
P: 272-8124 
The University ot Notre Dame Department ol Music Guest Lecture Series presents 
~benb:;;MUSIQVE 
Concert XVI: MEDIEVAL CHANT & ORGANUM 
JJi]!l ~rbola jfflusirorum 
Wed., Apr 18, 2001 

9:30 pm, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
-

(imm ~([' dt'lb\t\U\t ~\ tllljll.t UlllDCClllr 

Free and open to the public 
For more lnform1!1011, oleos• call (219) 631-6201 or visit http://www.nd.edu/ -con11oers 
Grant honors 5 science majors 
Special 10 The Observer 

Five Notre Dame undergrad­uate science majors will have an opportunity to develop their research expertise under a grant from the Arnold and M a b e I Beckman Found­ation. 
N o t re Dame's Depart­


ment of Malloy Biological Sciences and Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry will share a 2001 grant from the Beckman Scholars Program, a Beckman Foundation initiative designed to encourage and support undergraduate research activ­ities in chemistry, biochem­istry and the biological sci­ences. "The Beckman Scholars Program is precisely in line with the initiatives we have undertaken to expand the lab­oratory research experience of our undergraduates in the sci­ences," said Notre Dame President Father Edward Malloy. "This award creates a superb opportunity for under­graduate science majors in chemistry and biochemistry to receive what amounts to grad­uate training in laboratory research methods." The $88,000 Beckman grant will support multidisciplinary research by five students over a three-year period and will further strengthen an under­graduate science program that has received national recogni­tion from review boards. Rudolph Navari, associate 
dean of the College of Science. will direct the program. 
Notre Dame is one of just 14 institutions in the United States selected as Beckman Scholars Program award recipients. 
They include the California Institute of' Technology. Dartmouth, Indiana University. the University of California, Berkeley. and Yale University. 
The Arnold and Mabel Beckman Foundation is an independent,. nonprofit foun­dation established in 1977 to support basic scientific res1rnrch, primarily in the fields of chemistry, biochem­istry and medicine. 
Arnold Beckman is the founder and chairman emeri­tus of' Beckman Instruments, Inc_, one of the world's lead­ing suppliers of instruments and related products for the health care and life sciences markets. 
Considered one of the nation's leading philan­thropists. Beckman and his late wife, Mabel. have con­tributed approximately $350 million to the advancement of research and education. 
THE 
CHHISTIRH PLRTOHISH 

of 
Simone 
Weil 
Hpril Jg-22. 2001 
at the Uniuerslty 
of Hotre . ame 

Keynote Address Friday, April 20, 1:30 p.m. Center for Continuing Education, McKenna Hall 
Emmanuel Gabellieri 
Catholic University of Lyons 
Reworking Platonism: Simone Weil's Trinitarian 'Metaxology.' 
Emmanuel Gabellieri, of the Catholic University of Lyons, will speak in English. Professor Gabellieri has an Agregation in Philosophy and a Doctorate in Philosophy and has been the editor of the review Theophilyon since 1998. He has written several articles on Simone Weil: among the most recent are "Blonde/, Simone Weil et le panchristisme," "La Nuit du Don: Origine et decreation du ma/ chez Simone Weil," "'Vie publi9ue' et 'vita activo' chez Simone Weil et Hannah Arendt," "Hermeneutique de la culture et universalite ethique : Simone Weil et Paul Ricoeur1' He is preparing a manuscript on Simone Weil, for the Collection Philo-Philosophie and another on Etre et Groce : Simone Weil et le christianisme, for the collection: Philosophie-Theologie. 


ATION 
Wednesday, April 18, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WfRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Iranians, Saudis sign historic pact: 
Iran and Saudi Arabia signed a landmark pact to combat terrorism and drug trafficking Tuesday, calling it a "big step" in improving regional security and relations between the two nations. Iranian Interior Minister Abdolvahed Mousavi Lari and his Saudi coun­terpart, Prince Nayef. signed the agreement that includes cooperation on combating orga­nized crime, terrorism, drug trafficking, ille­gal immigration and a joint surveillance of borders. 
Castro reaffirms Socialist commit­ment: President Fidel Castro reaffirmed his commitment to socialism 40 years after the Bay of Pigs invasion -an event that set the stage for two generations of angry rhetoric between Havana and Washington. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
College aid drug law enforced: 
The Bush administration has decided to enforce a previously ignored law denying fed­eral financial aid to college students with drug convictions. Hundreds of thousands of applicants who did not answer a drug convic­tion question on their applications were not denied aid during the Clinton administration, despite the law saying they should have been. 
Native officials warn against soda: 
Alaska Native health officials are trying to curb sales of soda, saying Native children are rotting their teeth from drinking too much. The Alaska Native Tribal Health Consortium, which provides free health care to more than 110,000 Alaska Natives. said Monday it will ask stores in hundreds of communities to offer low-sugar drinks instead. The consor­tium warned that high consumption of soda not only causes tooth decay but can lead to obesity and diabetes. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Cold damages crops: Farmers won't know how badly overnight cold temperatures damaged emerging soybean, corn and wheat crops for at least a week, a Purdue University extension agronomist said Tuesday. The National Weather Service issued freeze advi­sories for many areas of Indiana on Tuesday night with temperatures expected to fall into the mid-20s. Early Tuesday, the temperature dropped to a record-low 25 degrees in South Bend and 26 degrees in Fort Wayne. 
Market Watch April 17 
Dow 10,216.73 +58.17 

Composite
]~ Same: 
Volume: 
NIA

~ 236 
AMEX: 899.80 +10.11 NASDAQ: 1,923.22 +13.65 NYSE: 608.78 +6.46 S&P 500: 1,191.81 +12.13 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -3.14 -0.54 16. 66 NASDAQ 100 INDX (QQQ) +2.48 +1.00 41.25 INTEL CORP (INTC) -0.99 -0. 26 26.04 JUNIPER NETWORK (JNPR) +5.15 +2.49 50.87 MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) +l.14 -+B. 69 61.48 
GAZA STRIP 


Associated Press 

GAZA CITY 
Israel began pulling its forces out of a strip of Palestinian territory in Gaza on Tuesday after holding it less than a day, the military said. The with­drawal followed sharp U.S. criticism over the incur­sion. 
After a barrage of heavy rocket fire, Israel seized nearly a square mile of the Gaza Strip early Tuesday in retaliation for a mortar attack on an Israeli desert town. It was the first time Israel took over Palestinian-controlled ter­ritory since peace accords were signed in 1994. 
Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat denounced the seizure as an "unforgiv­able crime" and said his people would "not kneel before gangs." 
Secretary of State Colin Powell called the action in Gaza "excessive and dis­proportionate," and said Israel should respect its commitment to the Palestinians. "The situa­tion is threatening to esca­late further, posing the risk of a broader conflict," Powell said. 
Israel initially said it could hold the territory -an area of orange groves and farmland-for months until Palestinian mortar fire stopped. But Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's aides were quick to say their forces would with­draw when the danger of mortar attacks was gone. 
Palestinian security offi­cials, also speaking on condition of anonymity, said U.S. officials told them the Israelis would with­draw from the area. 
A military statement said the pullout began after the mission was accomplished. 
The Israeli assault came in response to mortar fire Monday night on Sderot, a working class town of 24,000 about 2 1/2 miles east of Gaza. The town is a stronghold of support for Sharon, and his sheep ranch is five miles away. The Islamic militant group Hamas claimed responsi­bility for the mortars, but Israel blamed Palestinian security forces. 
Flares lit up the sky Monday night as Israeli forces shelled and rocket­ed Palestinian police sta­tions across the Gaza Strip, killing a policeman and injuring 36 other peo­ple. 
Soon after, troops crossed into the corner of Gaza closest to Sderot, seizing and tearing down abandoned Palestinian security posts. 

Mississippi River floods lowlands 
of Wisconsin and Iowa, and volun­flood stage at La Crosse on
Associated Press 

teers and prison inmates sand­Wednesday-lower than predicted. MISSISSIPPI bagged homes along the Mississippi Just upstream, in Fountain City, 
Bloated by melting snow and rain at Hampton, Ill. the main highway remained closed. across the Upper Midwest, the Among those who evacuated was School officials postponed the prom Mississippi River rose out of its Rep. Ron Kind, who moved his wife scheduled for Saturday at the high banks and strained against dikes and two children out of their home school and called ofT classes through Tuesday in four states, stopping on French Island, near La Crosse, Thursday. Amtrak trains and chasing hundreds Wis. Water was 4 feet deep in the A 403-mile stretch of the of people from their homes. house. Mississippi from Muscatine, Iowa, to 
Contractors in Minnesota rushed "We were completely engulfed and Minneapolis was closed to boat and 
· to shore up a weakened earthen surrounded by the Mississippi," the barge traffic. Nine counties in west­dam on a tributary of the congressman said after a canoe trip ern Wisconsin were under a state of Mississippi. to check on the house and his neigh­emergency and a disaster proclama­
Hundreds of people had left their bors. The Mississippi was expected tion was posted for 10 Iowa coun­homes in low-lying riverside areas to crest 4 1/2 feet above the 12-foot ties. 
Wednesday, April 18, 2001 

The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

FORTUNE® 
100 BEST 
COMPANIES§
TO WORK FOR~ 
J 
-i-

FORTUNE 
101h'E~~~ 
1989 
~PANIES TO WORK FOR 

History has a way of repeating itself. Pretty cool, huh? 
For three years in a row, we've been named one of the 100 Best Companies To Work For. With real opportunities for leadership and advancement, perhaps you'll want to join us as we go for four. 
Wednesday, April 18, 200l TheOhserver . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
'Rebirthing' therapist testifies in Colorado courtroom 
+ 10-year old dies during treatment for emotional disorders 
Associated Press 
GOLDEN, Colo. 

A psychotherapist told jurors Tuesday t.hat she had no idea a 10-ycar-old was in danger dur­ing a fatal "rebirthing" session until another therapist unwrapped a sheet covering the girl and found she wasn't breathing. 
In her second day on the stand, psychotherapist Connell Watkins gave a step-by-step account of how Candace Newmaker was wrapped in the flannel sheet to simulate a womb while adults pushed against her with pillows for 70 minutes. Candace died of asphyxiation during last year's session. 
Watkins, 54, and the other therapist, Julie Ponder, 40, are charged with reckless child abuse resulting in Candace's death. If convicted, they each could face 16 to 48 years in prison. 
Watkins said Ponder was in charge of the session and was the one checking on Candace's welfare. 
Questioned about a gesture she made on the tape. Watkins said: "I wanted Julie to unwrap her and check on her. I thought she (Candace) f'ell asleep. Julie said, 'Oh, she's fine. She's a little sweaty but she's fine.'" 
In his cross-examination, prosecutor Steve Jensen asked Watkins if she had considered Candace's wishes. 
Find 
Separat~ion Mc,AT ••-----/--• ------"'--­
..t'1. nypt;,;t:;a,11111!:J 
7z'Class hours-
Plus 5 full-l~th, proctored practice exams 
4,00Q;f,ages ofpractice material­
/

30 MCATs worth ofpractice passages 
/ Proven Results­
.8 point average score improvement
I 

Risk Free-
Try us for a week 
Separate from your competition. 
Classes for the Aug. MCAT 

Tne--. 

start in early June! 
Call to sign up today! rinceton 
Review 

www.PrincetonReview.com 800.2REVIEW 

Opportunities in Accounting 
•Bernme one of our widely sought groduotes 
•Prestigious Indiana Universily degree on 1he IUPUI campus 
•All majors accepted 
•Convenienl times; pmt-fime or ful~1ime; l2-24 month completion 
•Specialize in financial reporting, taxation, auditing, information systems, management consulting 
•lnternotionally recognized faculty  
for more informotion contact:  
KEllEY School ofBusiness Jn di a_n a p o Iis  (317) 278-3885 mpabus@iupui.edu http://bus.iupui  II IUPUI  

"Everything Candace said, Bill Owens signed a bill ban­you assumed she was lying ning rebirthing therapy in about it. Isn't that the prob­Colorado. lem?" he said. "In the April 18 The therapy session was re birthing intended to session. you a I I o w, weren't inter­Candace to
"We had no reason then 
ested in lis­emerge
to be concerned." 
tening to reborn and Candace bond with Newmaker, Connell Watkins her adoptive were you?" mother,
psychotherapist
W h i I e J e a n e Watkins testi-Newmaker fied, jurors of Durham, watched a videotape of the N.C. therapy session for the second · Watkins was treating time. Candace for attachment disor­
Candace's biological grand­der, which makes children mother. Mary Davis, and her resist loving relationships and husband, David Davis, left the can make them violent and courtroom before the videotape unmanageable. was shown. Later Tuesday, the The day before the rebirthing Oavises were present at the session, Watkins said, Candace state Capitol in Denver as Gov. had a minor breakthrough. 
When Jeane Newmaker left the room at Watkins' request, Candace broke into tears. 
"It was like a hole through her armor," she said. 
Watkins decided to follow up the next day with the therapy session. ''.I wanted to build on that with the rebirthing tech­nique," she said. 
Watkins said she learned the technique in 1999 and had participated in four other ses­sions. She said she believed it was safe and had never seen problems with it. 
About halfway into the ses­sion, the tape shows. Candace was asked if she wanted to be reborn. 
"She says very clearly, 'No,' which tells us she's fine," Watkins said. "We had no rea­son right then to be con­cerned." 
Con man offers kidney for probation 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA 

Con artist Barry Howell, facing up to 20 years in prison after his 21st convic­tion, made a deal: He'd donate a kidney to his ailing sister if the judge granted probation. 
"My sister needs me," Howell said. 
The judge agreed -but said the con man was headed behind bars if he backs out. 
Howell, who most recently was convicted of scamming four people of $1,400, was sentenced last Thursday to one to 23 months in prison. 
During that time, he'll be on a The organ donation had diet to lower his blood pres­been in the works several sure before surgery. months, according to court The diet and organ donation records. Howell argued the 
which were sug­gested by Howell at the sen­tencing hearing ­are consid­ered terms 
"My sister needs me." 
Barry Howell con artist 
of his three-year probation. 
Howell, 41, has been arrest­ed 49 times under 10 aliases. His most recent conviction came after he adopted a for­eign accent and pretended to be an out-of-town visitor vic­timized by robbers. 
operation would be dif­ficult to arrange if he was given a long prison term. 
Howell's 56-year-old 

sister, Gloria Harris, under­goes dialysis three times a week and said her brother had be~n approved as an organ donor. 
"I hope he saves my life and his too," Harris told The Philadelphia Daily News. 
The 15 grnduotes of Notre Dome ond St. Mary's working at Gibson & Associates, Inc. would like to congrotu4ote and welcome the newest members of our firm: 
New G&A Consultants Janine Janesheski Thomas Walsh Jomes Keller Kathryn Wood 
2001 G&A totems 
Antonio Cigno Joseph Keller 
lntereswd in :i c:m:'.er in management consulting? 
CfH::ck ou, uit r websile 
www.gibsonconsulting.com/career 
------------------------------, 
page 8 . The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, April 18, 200 l 


54533 Terrace Ln. 
(East ol Ironwood) 
243-1111 
Serving Notre Dame & Bethel College 
52750 IN 933 
(Formerly U.S. 31/33 -N. DI Cleveland Rd.) 
243-1122 
ServinJI St. Mary's College
Dll•IIQ~ 


Specialty Pizzas 
Deluxe • All Meat 
• Chicken Club • Hawaiian • White Cheezy 
• Garden Pizza 
Ask About Our Other Menu Items! 
......:!!iubs $4.69 
• Italian Sub • Ham & Cheese Sub 
• Steak & Cheese Sub • Veggie Sub 0"8' •Chicken Club Sub 
'fheez9li•eBd $3.49 
Fresh-Baked Bread Strips with 3 Kinds of Cheeses &Garlic Butter, Topped with Parmesan &Roma Seasoning. Served with aSide of Pizza Sauce &Ranch Dipping Sauce 
Marco's Salad $1.99 
Crisp Lettuce, Pepperoni, Cheese, Tomatoes, Banana Peppers, Black Olives, Feta Cheese &Italian Dressing 
@2001 Marco's, Inc. 1936-201 

. -""·-· 
"~1 ~ r•~ 
· 

~ '' '5.__ '';,'1, , 
•''!' ~ '1.1--­
~ •(-1~ ',,:. 
...._._ ·--~-:­
' . 
Wednesday, April 18, 2001 The Observer . NEWS page 9 
ISRAEL 
Flag decision divides Mississippi 
Holocaust survivors 
• Two-thirds of voters support the Confederate flag
receive cotnpensation 
Associated Press 
TEL AVIV, Israel 

Holocaust survivors can 
begin seeking compensation 
for money deposited in Swiss 
banks during World War II. 
groups appointed to administer 
the claims said Tuesday. 
Hundreds of thousands of 
people worldwide are expected 
to seek part of a $1.25 billion 
settlement of a 
class-action 
laborers and certain other victims of the Nazis. 
Nearly 65 percent of the funds, $800 million, will go to individuals who made deposits in Swiss bank accounts before the end of World War II. Much of that money will go to the owners of 21,000 bank accounts that probably belonged to Nazi victims, but others, including heirs to accounts, also are eligible to 
voters, or 66 percent,
have done 

favored keeping the old flag
long ago." 

and 43,984, or 34 percent,
T h e 

favored replacing it. The
remainder 

results were from precincts
of the set­

scattered across the state.
tlement, 

Mississippi is the last state
$450 mil­

to prominently display the
lion, will 

emblem on its flag. 
be split 

Voters had two choices:
among 

keep the current 1894 flag
former 

with the Confederate
slaves and 

emblem of 13 white stars on
forced 

a blue X, or adopt a new flag
laborers, 

with 20 white stars on a blue
refugees 

square, denoting
denied 

Mississippi's role as the 20th 
ducted before advocates on either side geared up with ads, telephone calls and ral­lies. 
In a state where William Faulkner said the past is never dead, the flag debate, while largely peaceful, polar­ized some voters along racial lines. 
Some whites said they sup­port the old flag because it represents their heritage and was the banner they saluted as children. Many blacks see the emblem as a symbol of past injustices, including beatings and lynchings by the Ku Klux Klan. The state, with 2.8 million people. is 61 percent white and 36 per­cent black. 
Gov. Ronnie Musgrove and many business leaders sup­ported the new nag, saying it would help move the state forward economically and socially. 
The debate arose after the Mississippi Supreme Court ruled last May that the state technically has no flag, because the 1894 design was left out when the state code was updated in 1906. The Legislature decided to let the voters choose. 
The vote is part of a larger debate across the South over how to deal with its troubled racial history as it focuses on the future. 
In neighboring Alabama, jury selection is under way in the trial of a white man accused in one of the civil rights era's most notorious crimes, the 1963 bombing of Birmingham's Sixteenth Street Baptist Church. The bombing killed four black girls. 
~REMINDER~ 
In recent years, prosecu­tors in Mississippi and other states also have dusted off files of old civil rights cases. 
In 1994, a jury convicted Byron de la Beckwith of assassinating NAACP leader Mcdgar Evers in Jackson in 1963. Mississippi Attorney General Mike Moore said he is also pursuing leads in a case against those accused of killing three civil rights workers in 1964. 
Other Southern states have wrestled with symbols of the Confederacy. 
South Carolina lawmakers, under economic pressure from the NAACP, last year removed a Confederate 11ag from atop the Statehouse dome. In January, Georgia legislators shrank the Confederate symbol that had dominated that state's flag since l 956. 
Many Alabama cities and counties have stopped flying the state's flag -a red X over a white background, adopted in 1895 -because some think it bears too strong a resemblance to the Confederate banner. 
"I think that the recent changes, including discus­sions on changing symbols, reopening old civil rights murder cases, as well as developments like new busi­ness, all indicate that the South is maturing," said Susan Glisson, interim direc­tor of the Institute for Racial Reconciliation at the University of Mississippi. 
Glisson is among those who advocated a new flag in Mississippi. She said the 1894 banner represents "ter­ror" for too many citizens. 
lawsuit against Swiss banks. 
The settle­ment, approved last year by a federal district court judge in New York. also makes pay­ments available to former slave apply. 
"We're talking about people depositing money, and count­ing on ... being able to draw on it," said llabbi Israel Miller of the Conference on Jewish Material Claims Against Germany, one of the groups administering the settlement. "It is a matter of justice -that which is right and just, and that which the banks should 
"It is a matter ofjustice -that which is right and just, and that which the banks should have done long ago.'' 
Rabbi Israel Miler Conference on Jewish Material Claims Against Gennany 
Associated Press 
JACKSON, Miss. 

Mississippians were voting in favor of keeping the Confederate emblem on the state flag, _in early returns from Tuesd'ay's election that forced the state to deal with unfinished business from its segregationist past. 
With 23 percent of the precincts reporting, 84,145 
entrance to Switzerland and holders of Nazi-era Swiss insurance claims. 
Former slaves and forced laborers are eligible to receive between $500 and $1,000. Former refugees can receive $1,250 to $2,500. 
Needy survivors whose assets were looted by the Nazis may also be eligible for relief pro­grams. 
state. Farmer Terry Galey voted to keep the old banner. 
"I've had things on my farm that have been working for 20 years and if they're still working, why change them?" he said on a crisp spring day during cotton­planting time across the Delta. 
In a poll last month, two­thirds of respondents favored keeping the 1894 flag. The poll, commissioned by The Associated Press and other news organizations, was con-




-National Youth Sports Program Students 
-Summer Service Project Internship Students 
-Leadership Interns 
-ACCION Interns
,_ 
CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

•Summer Service Project Internship Orientation• April 18 (Wednesday) or April 19 (Thursday) 
(WHICHEVER YOU SIGNED UP FOR) 
from 6:30 ..; 9:30 P.M. at the Center for Social Concerns 
SSP Students please bring: 
• your completed Information Sheet and your • Personal Statement 
See you Wednesday or Thursday evening! 
-
Wednesday, April 18, 200 I 

page 10 The Obseroer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
With joy and thanksgiving the Congregation of Holy Cross and the families of: 

Rev. Stephen J. Kempinger, C.S.C. Rev. Kevin M. Russeau, C.S.C 
Invite you to celebrate their ordination to the priesthood for lifelong service to the people of God. 
The Sacrament of Holy Orders will be conferred by the Most Reverend john Michael D'Arcy Bishop of Fort Wayne-South Bend: 
Saturday,April 21, 200 I I:30 p.m. at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
"We heard a summons to give over our lives in a more explicit way." Constitutions ofthe Congregation of Holy Cross, 1.3 
THEY ANSWERED THE CALL! 
www.nd.edu/,.. vocation 
Wednesday, April 18, 2001 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Cincinnati residents want change 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI 

Angry residents packed a City Council meeting Tuesday to speak out against the police shooting of an unarmed black man and to call for changes in police hiring and disciplinary practices. 
City leaders hope changes to the department will quell the anger that sparked riots last week after the death of 19­year-old Timothy Thomas, who was killed by a white officer. About 200 people filled council chambers dur­ing the meeting to consider a change 
"When I look at you, I
to the way the city followed the hires its police think you may be the April 7 chief. shooting
KKK in disguise."
Norma Payne death of said that when she Thomas, looks at city offi­Norma Payne who was cials she sees "the Cincinnati citizen running more receptive to change and not beholden to officers. 
Brian Loewe, a student at Xavier University, also called for new leadership. 
"There is nothing more pro­fane than having black chil­dren killed by police," Loewe said. 
After hearing citizens' com­ments for five hours, council referred the charter changes to a committee for more study. 
Any changes in the charter would have to be placed on the ballot and approved by voters. 
Three days of arson, looting 
and attacks 
on motorists 

same old slave masters," and "the same Gestapo of Hitler's regime." 
"When I look at you, I think you may be the KKK in dis­guise," the black woman said. Six of Cincinnati's nine City Council members are white; the city of 331,000 people is 43 percent black. 
Currently the chief's job goes to one of the city's assis­tant chiefs, but many black leaders say a national search could yield a chief who is from officers 
trying to arrest him on misdemeanor and traffic warrants. 
Police arrested more than 800 people during demonstra­tions and a citywide curfew ­lifted Monday -was put in place for the first time since the race riots of 1968. 
The FBI, police and the county prosecutor are investi­gating the shooting. Fifteen blacks have died in confronta­tions with police since 1995, four of them since November. 
Officer Stephen Roach, who shot Thomas, is on paid administrative leave. The president of the police union has said Roach believed Thomas had a gun and that his Ufe was in danger. 
A Hamilton County grand jury was expected to begin hearing evidence soon about the shooting. Prosecutor Michael Allen said he is aware that black residents are watching to see whether Hoach is indicted, but that his office would handle the case like any other. 
"If there's an indictment, it will be because of the facts of the case, and not because of pressure from the communi­ty," Allen said. "We're going to present it straight up and let the members of the grand jury make the decision." 
Another grand jury has begun hearing evidence against people suspected of crimes during last week's rioting, Allen said. Prosecutors and police have been reviewing videotapes of the unrest to try to identify rioters. 
Meanwhile, local police and FBI investigators are also still trying to determine why police and a state trooper fired pellet beanbags at peo­ple who witnesses described as peaceful protesters. Two people were injured in Saturday's shooting, which followed Thomas' funeral. 
Judge signs subpoena for Albright to testify 
Associated Prcss 
NEW YORK 

A judge signed a subpoena on Tuesday that calls former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright to testify, but said she may n e v e r take the witness stand in t h e embassy bombings trial. 
u . s . 
District J u d g e Leonard Sand said that he was not ruling "on any of the many weighty objections ... with respect to whether she is (a] proper (witness] or not." 
The subpoena was among several requested by defense lawyer David Baugh. He rep­resents Mohamed Rashed Daoud Al-'Owhali, who could be sentenced to death if con­victed. 
An FBI agent has testified that Al-'Owhali confessed to riding a bomb-laden vehicle to the U.S. embassy in Nairobi, Kenya, and tossing stun grenades at guards before fleeing. Al-'Owhali has maintained the confession was coerced. 


The Aug. 7, 1998, bombing and an almost simultaneous attack on the U.S. embassy in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, killed 224 people, including 12 Americans. 
The judge said it is possible that Albright is the wrong witness for the things Baugh wants to show the jury and also that she might not be available for the trial, which is expected to end in several weeks. 
"Quite candidly, if this were a subpoena for Joe the Hagman, he would be brought here," Baugh said. 
He suggested Albright should be treated the same, even if she is "a former lofty ambassador of good stand­ing." 
The judge said some of the questions Baugh wants to ask Albright would not be permit­ted even if she was to testify. 
"An example that comes to mind is the awareness of threats, and the failure to close the embassy or take other precautions," the judge said. 
Earlier in the trial, defense lawyers tried to question the 
U.S. ambassador to Kenya in 1998 about warnings the U.S. government may have received before the explo­sions. The questioning was disallowed. 
g 

CENTER FOR SPIRITUALITY SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
presents The Seventeenth Annual Madeleva Lecture in Spirituality 
Speaking With Authority: Catherine of Siena and The Voices of Women Today 
by Mary Catherine Hilkert, 0 .P. 
Professor of Theology, University of Notre Dame 
Thursday, April 19, 2001, 7:30 p.m. (EST) Moreau Center Little Theatre, Saint Mary's College 
FREE AND OPEN TO THE PUBLIC  INFORMATION: (219) 284-4636 E-MAIL: mlukasze@saintmarys.edu  
Saint MJ?,s Collegg NOTRE DAME • INDIANA  

\ 
\ 



VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 12 BSERVER Wednesday, April 18, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
l'.O. Box Q, Norn, Dame. IN . 6556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46~56 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR  Bus1m:ss MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Kerry Smith  

NEWS EDITOR, Jason McFarlcy VIEWPOINT EDITOR; Pat McElwee SPORTS EDITOR, Noah Amsradtcr ScfNE EDITOR, Amanda Greco SAJITT MAR\"s EDITOR, Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR• Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER, Kimberly Springer Ao DESIGN MANAGER, Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR, Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINIHRATOR, Adam Turner COJIITROll.ER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EorroR, Katie McKenna 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO ............631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 
AoVERTISING....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF ........................................ 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME .................... 631 •454 ! BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS................................................... .......631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu YIEWP0INT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinr. l@nd.edu 
SPORTS........................................................631-4543 
observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.................................................. , ...... 631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.cd" 
SAINT MARv's............................................. 631-4324 
observer .smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WE.I! AoMINISfRATORS.................631-8839 
iu 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visic our Web site ar http:llohrm,er.nd.edu for daily upda1cs of campus news, spores, features and opinion columns, as well as car1oons, reviews and breaking news from rhe Associaced Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for U(>-lo-che 

movicslmwic for 
minu1e forecasts 

weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 

onlinc features for spe­
and rates ofprint ads 

cial campus roverage 
archives to search for 

about The Observer 
articles publish«! after 

to meet rhe «!itors and 
staff
August l999 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prin1 and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lie and Sainr Mary's Collq;e. Editorial comem, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe adminiscrarion ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is report«! as aa:uraccly and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and departmcm «li1ors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through leucrs is encouraged. Lcrrers co the Editor must be signed and must include con'2ct information. 
Qw,tio,u rt>K"rd,ng Ob=poiicin shoukl br di=t­ed to Ediror in ChiefMilrr Connolly. 
You should swear off swears, but can you? 
lt starts at home. The swear word spreads by mouth, a foul and contagious disease. from parent to child. And these darn swear words filter through the gen­erations. until they invade the television and Lhe classroom. Curses corrupt 
Eric Long

absolutely, and a 
country's language 
reflects its morality 
Fitter,

-just ask Orwell. 
Happier, ...

lfwe remain in our pristine, clcan­mou thed state for only a few years before corruption stains the tongue, it's easy to see that our soci­ety is headed straight to H-E-double hockey sticks. I am not a pundit of the foul "family values" formula that the mewling. moralizing right wing (and even some of the formerly clear-headed left wing} chooses to impose on America as part of a conspiracy to bring "The Waltons" back on television, but some­thing must be done. 
Oh look, a personal anecdote: I swear all the time -something I don't regard with pride. I started almost as soon as I learned to talk, and when I began school my -ahem -vocabulary grew. We all remember freshman sociology class and the factors of socialization: family, peers, school ... crap, I forgot too. 
Anyway, things like organized sports, liking girls and doing chores multiply the reasons to swear. And when I went off to college, away from a steadying familial influence and into an all-male dorm, I became a regular Richard Pryor. ,1 
Occasionally, I'll even Jet one slip when I'm back home. I'll stub my toe in the kitchen and drop the f-bomb. My enthu­siasm might bubble over during a discus­sion about my father's pork chops, and I obscenely, though accurately, describe them as "frickin"' great. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
'Just Do It' like Joey Ramone 
But l always have this invincible ­though fallacious -argument against my mother's rebukes: Words are merely words, and swear words are words indeed. I could substitute any adjective for a swear, but out of mere custom 1 choose the dirty word. 
This argument has its strong points: Words are artificial. they are labels attached to real emotions and thoughts and therefore have no resonant meaning outside of their use as symbols. 
Pardon me, but this is bull puckey. Keep in mind that humans use language to shape the world and relate their expe­riences to others. Words are very impor­tant. 
And making a word forbidden? Instead of disappearing, the forbidden word becomes an object of increased, almost obsessive curiosity. Any little kid on the playground can tell you that curse words are special, forbidden words -words, I might add, that only mommies and dad­dies can use with impunity. 
Yet little kids endlessly repeat every swear word they happen to learn. due to the word's very same forbidden nature. I did and I know you did. 
Every culture has its forbidden words, and these words gain a greater signifi­cance than ordinary words. Shoot. back in the day the Hebrews could not utter the name of the Lord -that is, until some dude retreated to his hut. closed his eyes, whispered it and discovered that no celestial fire descended. Even though there's a commandment about, it10 
is utterable. •l\f-between them? 
This experience is not unique, even though I kind of made that story up. I Eric long is a junior majoring in the can imagine lots of kids trying out a dirty Program ofLiberal Studies. I !is column word in a hushed voice, just to see if any­runs every other Wednesday. thing bad will happen. The views expressed in this column are 
The most uproarious joke is a dirty those ofthe author and not necessarily joke. So, the importance of language plus those ofThe Observer. 
the magic surrounding a forbidden word 
plus natural human attraction to things 
they should avoid equals a culture gone 
to spit. 
But what can we do about this here problem: what brand of stratcgery can we employ to counteractivate this prob­leminal quandrity? 
Ladies and gentlemen. your corn­mencement speaker. 
Sorry-swearing is a serious problem. We have several avenues: we could implement a national rubber band hand out, and everyone would be required by law to snap themselves at each curse. A few dozen painful stings and soon our language and morals would be pure again. No, this method only encourages more swears. I have snapped myself up to five times in a row with the frigging rubber band method. 
We could install gigantic jars in public areas, and the honor system would man­date at least a nickel for every curse to be placed inside the jar. No, huge jars are hard to come by. 
We could un-forbid the words, and thus desensitize everyone -which is sort of what we have done, 1guess. That's working well. 
As swear words enter the common parlance, I'm almost certain the "powers that be" will come up with new forbidden words, like "pancake," "deportment" and "fair and unbiased democratic process." And on and on. So, Mom, if you're listen­ing, accept my swears. I curse for I am human; would you make me choose 
ence and musical proficiency aren't pre­requisites for making great music) jump­started the punk movement of the late 1970s, inspiring bands such as the Sex Pistols and the Clash. 
This attitude -"Just Do It" decades before Nike made it a slogan -will serve as The Ramones's most lasting legacy. It reminds us that sometimes it's best not to know exactly what you're doing, to leap before you look, throw yourself into the moment, grit your teeth, try your best and see how far it takes you. 
James Seider junior off-campus April 17, 200 I 
DILBERT 


E' 
8 
"1i 
II

WHAT'S THE 
@ 
~

WORST THING 
,,•
•

THAT COULD 
a 
li
HAPPEN? 

I E 
0 
I.I 
t: 
Q) 
i ,g 

OUR BETA PRODUCT COULD TURN INTO AN EVIL ROBOT THAT ANNIHILATES THE GALAXY. 
.;
:. 
:£
.
.. 
u
;.
.. 
l! 
. 
...• ~ i 
C 
:, 
;; 
"' 0 ~ 
;; 
"!" 'F 

SCOTT ADAMS 
APPARENTLY 

I DON'T KNOW WHAT "WORST" MEAN5. 
) 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"If you think you've hit a false note, sing loud. When in doubt, sing loud. " 
Robert Merrill opera singer 

Joey Ramone died recently. He was the first of my musical heroes to pass on, although more will undoubtedly join him in the near future, suc­cumbing to old age and the ill effects of their rock and roll lifestyle. 
Joey's death prompts me to ponder The Ramones's place in musi­cal history and their influ­ence upon a legion of fans. 
The Ramones are often credited with saving rock and roll: they came about in the mid-1970s, during a time when rock was in danger of drowning in its own excesses, epitomized by the 20­minute guitar solo, supergroups and the' 
songwriting of Neil Diamond. The band sought to inject fun back into the music, to rediscover the stomp, recklessness and rau­cousness of rock's pioneers Little Richard, Jerry Lee Lewis and Elvis Presley. Fueled by ambition, but almost entirely devoid of musical ability. the Ramones soldiered on, playing original songs from the outset, primarily because they weren't capable of playing anyone else's. These songs -"Blitzkrieg Bop," "Beat on the 
Brat," "Judy is a Punk." et cetera -and 
the attitude behind them (that experi­

.. -·­

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

Wednesday, April 18, 2001 BSERVER page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Execution about vengence, not justice 
I wish to respond to Stacy Davis's letter on Thursday. in which she wrote the following: "Pray for Timothy McVcigh if you want, but please make no excuses for his actions. He brought his fate upon himself." 
Of course, Timothy McVeigh's actions were coward­ly. reprehensible and unjustified. No one can dispute this. 
Of cause. Mr. McVeigh's crimes have taken some­thing from all of the victims' families that they can never get back -loved ones and their peace of mind. No one can dispute this. · 
And of course, Mr. McVeigh's crimes cry out for jus­tice, so that society may remain safe from murderous aggressors like himself. No one can dispute this. 
Docs Mr. McVcigh need to suffer consequences for his actions? Yes. Do the victims of this horrible tragedy need to be comforted? Yes. And does society need to take action to protect itself? Yes. But does Mr. McVeigh need to be killed? Has he, in the words of Ms. Davis, "brought his fate" -execution 
-"on himselr'? No. 
Ms. Davis's assertion that Mr. McVeigh needs to die resonates with what others have said recently about the upcoming execution. Attorney General John Ashcroft. for example, has agreed to broadcast the execution on closed-circuit television so that families of the bombing's victims can "have closure." Mr. Ashcroft has said this is only just, and that Mr. McVeigh's death will serve justice. And Ms. Davis has concurred. 
She and Mr. Ashcroft are both wrong, horribly wrong. Killing Timothy McVeigh isn't about justice. It isn't about righting wrongs. It's about vengeance. 
Justice doesn't require killing Mr, McVeigh. In fact, true justice requires only that he be stopped from remaining a future menace to society. This could easily have been accomplished by putting him in a maxi­mum-security prison, for life, without parole. 
Pope John Paul II and the Catechism of the Catholic Church have recognized that capital punishment is permissible if and only if there is no other way for a society to protect itself' against a murderous criminal. 
In other words, only those countries that can't afford to build prisons may practice capital punishment in the name of justice. 
But the United States can afford to house dangerous criminals like Mr. McVeigh. Therefore justice dictates that he should be imprisoned. Executing him is exces­sive, unnecessary and, in the view of all who recognize the need to preserve the sanctity of all life from con­ception to natural death whenever possible, totally and irrevocably unjust, 
And no should pretend this is otherwise. Killing Mr. McVeigh will solve nothing. will right no wrong, will help no one. It will merely give those already hurt by his evil deed the opportunity to exult in barbaric joy at his death. 
Let no one pretend that this execution is about any­thing other than barbaric, uncivilized vengeance. 
Josh Stowe 
senior 
off-campus April 12, 2001 

All Christians to blame for sins 
We are agents in commu­nion, in communities consti­tuted by shared practices and language. We do things with words. Words affect 01.n-rela't''' tionships with one another. They divide. They unite. 
In a letter to the editor pub­lished Wednesday of Holy Week entitled, "Prayer a potent weapon," Joseph Vallely claimed that Protestantized rational­istic culture inculcated in Timothy McVeigh the belief that violence is at times morally appropriate. Mr. Vallely suggests our right response is for the Catholics among us to pray the rosary. 
Although a number of Mr. Vallely's claims may be supportable, 
i.e. the efficacy of pray­ing the rosary or evils made permissible by forms of rationalized reli­gion, he commits a num­ber of injustices not the least of which is promoting a memory unfaithful to God's work among His people. 
All Christians, Protestant and Catholic alike, share in the tradition of members who in their faith felt obligated to kill. They also share in the tradition of pacifism. (A leader to whom many have looked to as an obedient disciple of Christ is the late John Howard Yoder, a Notre Dame theology professor, who was thick in the messianic pacifism that is a part of the Mennonite way of life.) Both just war and paci­fism are traditions (not doc­trines) acknowledged on both sides. 
It may do us some good to remember that both "sides" also shared in the sin of the 
Reformation and the con­tinued sin of' disunity. To futher cause divi­sion by suggesting 
that one or the other of these groups is the facet of the Christian 
community respon­sible for the sin of Mr. McVeigh is unhelpful to the extreme. There is much work to be done within and outside the church, but this is not it. 
It is our faithful memory that enables us to acknowledge ourselves as sinners 
forgiven and to fare forward in hope. (What better time to remember 

this than now, following on the heels of Easter?) 
Let us finally heed the Word of all words, which calls us to share in prayers and lives transformed through the Spirit by peace and reconciliation ­an undertaking only possible as we are members of the church of Jesus Christ. 
Sheryl Overmyer 
senior Walsh Hall April 17, 2001 

GUEST COLUMN 
Cincinnati riots result of an 
undemocratic system 
MADISON, Wis. 
"Those who make peaceful revolution impossi­ble will make violent revolution inevitable." ­John F. Kennedy Jr. 
As the march of time and progress plows for­ward into a new century, of late I have acquired a creep­Sarah Turner ing sense of vertigo. While of course we move forward with our many new tech­
The Daily 

nologies, as a society I can't 
Cardinal

help feeling that we are moving backward. 
Historically, the U.S. government has used whatever violent means necessary to take what it wanted. It wanted cheap labor and land to build up its empire, so it encouraged the enslavement of Africans and the slaughter of Native Americans. 
This pattern of violence used by the U.S. gov­ernment against other groups has spread to its own citizenry. Popular expressions of discontent with the status quo are increasingly being met with tear gas and pepper spray. Because the mil­itary is not ideologically trained to battle the peo­ple of its homeland, the police become the brutal face of the state. 
The role of the police is to unquestionably guard the social order of the state. They are used as tools to hold back insurrection. Their mission is not to protect the people, but to protect private property. This can be seen in situations where the best interests of the people do not correspond with the best interests of the economic order. 
When workers go on strike, it is the police that crack heads for the corporate bosses to maintain their profit margins. When blacks and whites demanded ~iviI rights. it was the police who beat them bloody to uphold a two-tier society. In Seattle, when the U.S. citizenry demanded that they be participants in the future of global trade talks, it was the police who shot them with rub­ber bullets and concussion grenades for multina­tional corporate stability. 
For the past several days, African-Americans in Cincinnati have burst onto the streets as an restraining officers smashed his head on the con­crete. Despite the suspicious circumstances of his death, all of the police officers were exonerated. 
The latest victim of the brutal pathology of the Cincinnati police was Timothy Thomas. The police claim that he was shot because he was running away, but since when have we given the police the right to shoot first and ask questions later? Under the law, everyone is innocent until proven guilty, but the police now believe that they are above the law. The police in Cincinnati have become thejudge,jury and executioner all rolled into one. Thomas and other African­Americans in Cincinnati know that if they encounter the police, they may well end up dead. Thomas was running for a reason. 
While the mainstream media would like the public to think that the police problems are caused by a "few bad apples," police brutality against African-Americans is systemic in America. African-Americans are far more likely to be targeted, imprisoned and killed by the criminal system. 
Amadou Diallo is one of the more famous examples of police murder, but several cases can be found in every major U.S. city. How much brutality can a people be reasonably expected to endure before their obedience to the rules of the social order starts to break down? 
For years, much lip service has been given but little action has been taken to improve the status of African-Americans in this country. Not until the recent unrest in Cincinnati has the city taken seriously the anger of African-Americans. 
The media coverage of these protests has been grossly one-sided. Angry citizens are called "riot­ers" to discredit their message, and the violent actions of the police are downplayed with state­ments like, "people don't understand how tough police work is." 
Rioting and disorder are consequences of the abuse of police power. Calls for calm are irre­sponsible, without demands for immediate recti­fication of gross incarceration, discrimination and economic deprivation experienced daily by African-Americans. · 
Seniors!!! 
Take some of that time lost to senior-itis and write us a letter for our commencement edition. 
observer.viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
expression of their outrage against the police. Kennedy's quote is a potent reminder that The response from the police has been to shoot when the peaceful channels of governmental them with bean bags from rifles. People are in change are closed off, the only recourse left for the streets because the police have killed 15 the attainment of justice will be rebellion. black men in the last five years. The examples are disturbing. This column first ran on April 17, 2001, in the 
Michael Carpenter was a casualty of the University ofWisconsin's daily paper, The Daily Cincinnati police. He was shot after being Cardinal. It is prouided here courtesy ofU-WIRE. stopped while driving. No charges were filed The views expressed in this column are those against the officers. Darrell Price also died at the ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe hands of the Cincinnati police. He died after Observer. 
r---------------------------------------------­
I N 
E T 
page 14 Wednesday, April 18, 200 l 
Smilies and away messages: the rules 
of IM etiquette 
Procrastinator. Communicator. Campus dominator. And it all 
bogins with the click of a butlon and the opening of a simulat­
ed door. 
AOL Instant Messenger has taken over the lives of college 
students all over the country. Quickly becoming the communi­
cation method of choice, IM allows co­
eds to communicate with people anytime, 
anywhere and practically anonymously. 
However, as our lives shift from the 
personal to the technical there are a few 
things to remember if you want to 
become (or remain) a successful IM-er. 
When it comes down to it, it's virtually 
impossible to say the wrong thing. You 
have the time to read the other person's 
message, think about what you want to 
say, type it out and even spell check it. 
In theory, there's a very small margin 
left for error. Still, there is a certain "IM 
etiquette" that must be followed for clar­
ity and communication's sake. 
Communication with someone over IM 
is similar to reading a script from 
"Friends." The dialog may be witty and the punch line may 
have potenlial to be the next national catchphrase, but unlike 
"Must See TV," there's no delivery. 
There's no Chandler adding his trademark sarcasm and eye­
rolling lo the line to give it humor as you saw it in your mind. 
Remember -this miscommunication can eventually cause 
utter confusion for all involved. 
The bottom line is clarity, clarity and clarity. If you know the person you're IM-ing well enough, you can possibly make sar­casm work for you. However, in doing so you still walk the line line between clever and asinine, so be careful. In these situa­tions, it's definitely more what you say that how you say it. 
You also have to remember that IM is not simply a substitute for the telephone. Even though. these days, it's easier to log on than to dial up, it's no excuse to completely forgo the cordless phone. 
This is especially pertinent when talking to someone you're dating, like to date or hope to date. Sure, it's casual and unob­trusive to throw the occasional IM their way, but who are we kidding here? IM may have worked for Meg Ryan and Tom Hanks in "You've Got Mail" but, let's face it. If IM is your main way of communicating with your sweetie, there's much less of a chance of a digital getdown later on. 
Unlike actual face to face or telephone conversations, IM provides you with the opportunity to leave the room, write a paper. talk to your roommate and/or watch television while simultaneously talking to eight different people over IM. 
Don't do this -it's just bad manners. When you want to do any or all of the above, let the person on the other end know so that they're not idly waiting for your response, while you're simply becoming idle. 
It's best to answer questions with questions. keeping the conversation rolling without making one person string the dia­logue along. One-word answers and long stretches between exchanges don't make an overall great impression. Besides, if you're entirely uninteresting over IM, it doesn't say much for your social capabilities in general. 
And then there's the all-important Away Message. These are displayed for hours on end to let the world know where you are ("On the 12th floor of Hesburgh Library -if I'm not back in three hours, send a search party"), what you did last night ("Recovering from a night at the Backer") or where you're going ("Off to see 'Josie and the Pussycats' with the Girls"). It's getting to the point where you click on to your IM and every single person has posted an Away Message -and you, of course, have to add your own. 
As AOL Instant Messenger threatens to make all other forms of communication obsolete, it also gives you the opportunity to converse (cheaply!) with people all over the country, whether they're in the next state or the next room. 
It may not be the best way to "reach out and touch some­one," especially if you're hoping to hook up with more than their modem, but if you follow sharp IM etiquette, you'll be a successful IM-er in no time. 

Jacqueline Browder 
In Vogue 

Jacqueline Browder is a sophomore arts and fetters major. "In Vogue" appears every third Wednesday iri Scene. 
The uiews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The downfall of the Internet 
Ifyou spend your days reading hundreds 
connected to a multitude of people anywhere
By TAI ROMERO 

in the world. Furthermore, IM gives the 
Scene Wricer 

impression that each person can use the ser­
vice as a means of advancing individuality
What is more detrimental to a student than and creativity.Snood and a plague of locusts combined'! No, Victims are seduced by the intrigue of cre­it is not food poisoning from the dining hall ating away messages, posting updates and 
or yet another OIT outage. pertinent information and even starting a This evildoer is better known as AOL chat room for several people at once. Instant Messenger. 
Moreover. personalThis criminal has 

manifestos can be attacked residences 
highlighted in awayand businesses every­messages and member 
where. Nevertheless, proliles.its favorite prey is an Let us also not for­individual in his teens get entrapment by the or early 20s. College idea of fabricating a students, beware. new identity with an Plan of Attack original screen name. 
What is this silent, How can someone not deadly attacker? On be captivated by such the surface, it seems marvels as these? so innocent. Simply A Growing Local download and install 
Phenomenon
the free software from 
Notre Dame is no
AOL, and instantly 

stranger to the misdemeanors of Instantyou are connected to family and friends 
Messenger, due to its abundance of twenty­around the world. 
somethings with computers and a year inInvitations to chat pop up at the most 
South Bend where nine months are winter.
opportune 
In fact, on the
moments (usual­
fourth floor ofly when you 're 
Walsh llall, only

12 Questions to assess IM addiction:
about to begin 
two people ofthat 10-page more than 30

1. Have you ever decided to stop IMing for a
paper) and you 
interviewed

week or so, but only lasted for a couple of 
can return from admitted. to ,

days? •
class to find 
being IM virgins.
cheerful greet­Some residents

2. Do you wish people would mind their own
ings left by your 
were even sur­

business about your IMin~ and stop telling 
pals. 
prised to hear

you that you look like you ve been staring at
With a key­that this lack of

a computer screen for nine days, 1O hours 
board and an IM infatuation

and 36 minutes straight? 
Ethernet link, 
could be possiblethe need for long in even one per­

3. Have you ever switched from one screen
distance phone 
son.

name to another in hopes that people would 
calls is eliminat­
Perhaps this

not know you were stifl on IM?
ed -IM users 
amazement
are limited only 
serves as an

4. Have you ever skipped one or more meals
by how quickly 
indicator that

so that you could finish an IM conversation?
they can type the intensity ofand how many 
Instant

5. Do you envy people who can talk to one
different conver­
Messenger's

person on IM for five minutes and then sign 
sations they can 
transgressions

off without talking to anyone else? 
maintain. 
against humani­Then what, you ty has fizzled

6. Have you had eye problems during the 
may ask, is the and the public

past year connected with IM eye strain? 
crime Instant 
has succumbed
Messenger com­
to the powers of

7. Have you gone a day without speaking to
mits? 
the phenomena

anyone verbally because you only communi­
The answer is 
that is lM.

cated by IM? 
simple: Instant Some Notre
Messenger steals 
Dame students

8. Do }'OU sign on to IM just to read other
time -precious 
arc intelligent

people's away messages? 
time that could enough to real­be used for dis­ize IM for the

9. Dq you tell yourself you can stop IMing 
arming an atom­time-suck it is. 

any time you want to, even though you keep
ic bomb, saving Why, then, do

IM1ng when you don't mean to?
a family of five 
others remainfrom a burning 
blind to the role

10. Have you missed days of work or school
building, doing 
Instant

because of !Ming? 
homework or 
Messenger takes
writing an arti­
as an accomplice

11 . Do you have "blackouts"? 
cle for , The to the procrasti­
Observer. 
nation? Like the

12. Have you ever felt that your life would be 
Stealing Time 
Monty Python

better if you did not IM? 
Like a cult 

boys say:leader, Instant 
"Nobody ever

If you answered yes to five or more of
Messenger 
expects the

these questions, you are advised to seek
attracts its game 
Spanish

help for your addiction. 
with its seeming­

Inquisition."ly advantageous 

The Agony and
demeanor. Flaunting such 
The Ectasy 
bonuses as stay­

Yet, the tarry­ing in touch witb 
ing tool is cited people, IM sim­
by some stu­ply screams, 
dents as having "Come. Come. 
special merit. Love and caress Freshman my keyboard!" Gretchen McIntyre swears that "IM is cool 
Any unsuspecting person is automatically because it allows boys and girls to socialize lured by the false promises of being instantly past parietals. They can take the boys out of 

I N 
C 
E T 

Wednesday, April 18, 2001 page 15 
eneration -is there life after Instant Messenger? 
away messages and perfecting your own, fear not -you are not alone 

:-) 

:-X :-D :-1 :-P 
OJ 




my room, but they can't take them off tecture projects. my computer!" The separation has been a 
As much joy as that connection difficult one for Casanta. "It may give McIntyre, some people fii\U feels like I've been cut off can recount the agony IM has ~ from all my friends and caused them. Sophomore Katie family," she laments. Casanta has been cut off from Casanta also reports Instant Messenger for the past couple another reason for grief due to of weeks due to her mounting archi-IM-withdrawal: "It's like a stalking 
lol Laugh out loud lmao­Laughing my a** off rotfl Rolling on the floor laughing jk Just kidding w/e Whatever btw By the way oic Oh I see nm Nevermind g2g Got to go brb Be right back tty! Talk to you later cya See ya bfn Bye for now syl See you later bbl Be back later 
device right in your 
room!" 

A 12 Step Guide to Overcoming IM 
Without the wicked 
Addiction: 
Instant Messenger, 
Casanta has been 
1. Big surprise ... The first step is always 
depraved of keeping 
admitting that you a have a problem.
tabs on all her friends. Some people might 
2. Have your roommate attach electrodes to 
empathize with this 
your computer so that you are given an elec­
mental anguish. From 
tric shock every time you sign on to Instant 
the moment many 
Messenger.

Domers wake up until the minute they go to 
3. Post a sign offering a reward to anyone
bed. their IM away 
who rescues you from the LaFortune or 
messages let friends, 
DeBartolo computer labs. 
foes and families moni­
tor their every move. 
4. Take up another addiction like biting your 
Walsh Hall resident 
fingernails or banging your head against a 
Lindsey Horvath hosts 
wall repeatedly. 

a Buddy List of about 150 people. Would you 
5. Attend IM Anonymous.
call this insanity? Perhaps, but Horvath 
6. Plead for all your friends to place a block 
refutes the claim that 
on you, so that even if you succumb to the 
she talks to about 100 
obsession they can be strong for you. 
of those people a 
week. 

7. Get a sponsor to support you during this 
For Horvath, Instant 
time of turmoil. 

Messenger is heaven sent because she can 
8. Use the Warn button on IM to warn your­
talk to ten people at a 
self to 100 percent capacity so that you will 
time that she might 
be cut off from the IM service. 
she might otherwise never hear from. Plus, 
9. Gouge your eyes out with a spoon. IM will 
the phone bill is 
not help you much after that. 
spared. Junior Alan Maginn 
10. Take 19 credits, learn to play the bag­
rebukes those students 
pipe, and start a polka club to occupy your 
who have fallen into 
time. 

the grips of Instant Messenger. He cites IM 
11. Cut off your "mouse fingers." 
as "the best way to waste your time 
12. If worse comes to worse, just remember 

and the worst 
that OIT will surely have an outage very soon 
way to spend 
that will render you unable to use Instant 
your time." 
Messenger.

The absurdity with Instant 
Messenger, as Maginn explains it, is that it has become another form of obliga­tion. 

other IM addicts, feel more comfort­People feel they have able hiding from people by adopting
to answer the 
new names as opposed to selec­
phone when it 
tively ignoring IM messages.
rings -that oblig­..tr"":· ation has carried Worldwide Domination
.,~{ 

over to answering The villainous Instant 
-

an IM when the Messenger has sauntered about computer beeps. in the free world untouched by 
Maginn shared his the law because of its keen ability to wisdom: "Just because deceive and manipulate. someone's there Computer users everywhere are doesn't mean that I duped by this relentless rogue and are have to talk never able to discern that to them." they have been sucked 
Senior 
into the ultimate evil IM
"Will IM mania 

Katie Parks plot of global domination. 
ever release its 

admits that In fact, IM i.s so clever she par­grip on the that it has the tendency takes ot' IM to implement its user as
helpless college 

mania, but an accomplice in a crime
student?"

the number against itself. of names on 
Will IM mania ever her Buddv release its grip on the List does "not corre­helpless college student? spond to the number of Will Domcrs ever return to their people represent-studies, even without putting ed on the list. 
up an Away Message? 
When asked It may remain one of those why, Parks justi­unanswered and timeless ques­
....

fied this situation tions. Perhaps it will one day by saying that rank right up there with, "How many of her many licks does it take to get friends have multiple to the center of a Tootsie Roll Pop?" screen names. The same answer apples: the world 
These friends, like may never know. 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 18, 200 l 
STANLEY CUP PLAYOFFS 
Sabres pull ahead of flyers in series with victory 
home game in the series. Eric Brewer, Carter broke in Maurice was on the other side. Saturday in San Jose. Associa1rd Press Daymond Langkow, Simon alone and ripped a shot past •·1 don't think you can leave Kiprusoff got the start when 
Gagne and Dan McGillis Belfour. your feet on a hit like that," Nabokov came down with the BUFFALO, N.Y. scored for the Flyers. who With the Oilers running Maurice said. "But depending flu one night after allowing
Curtis Brown went through have never overcome a 3-1 around in their own end mid­on what your zip code is it'll five goals in the first two peri­six sticks before he found one series deficit to win. way through the third period. be a clean hit or a jump." ods of St. Louis' 6-3 victory in that wouldn't break. Philadelphia showed plenty Dallas struck back. Mike The top-seeded Devils can Game 3. 
Wilh the last one, the of resiliency by battling back Keane, standing at the edge of advance to the second round After a slow start, KiprusoffBuffalo Sabres' top checker to tie it after falling behind 2-0 the Oilers crease, whipped with a victory Wednesday rounded into sterling form put the Sabres on the verge of before the first period was home a pass from Kirk Muller. night. while holding off an energeticadvancing to the second round three minutes old. Benoit Hogue, the Stars' "We would like to give them St. Louis attack nearly all of the playoffs. After Gratton put the Sabres overtime hero in Game 3. paid a game and put some pressure night. Dallas Drake scored a 
After the Sabres squandered ahead 3-2 late in the second for it dearly Tuesday when he on them," Carolina's Rod desperate goal for St. Louis two leads, Brown scored 6: 13 period, the Flyers forced over­was flattened twice by physi­Brind'Amour said. "But we've with 24.8 seconds left, but into overtime to lift Buffalo to 
time on McGillis' short-handed cal defenseman Jason Smith. got to flnd a way to score goals Kiprusoff held on for his first 
a 4-3 victory over the 
goal midway through the The second hit leveled him first." playoff victory.Philadelphia Flyers on 
third. near the Edmonton blue line. Most of the second and third More importantly, the Tuesday night. "Slice it any way you want, Hogue attempted to pick periods were filled with fights Sharks seemed to match the 
The Sabres grabbed a 3-1 take away those first two or himself off the ice. but col­and rough play as the Blues' intensity and defensive lead in the best of seven first­three minutes and we win the lapsed a second time. He final­Hurricanes attempted to take effort for the first time in the round series, winning for the hockey game," Flyers Keith ly managed to gain his feet their frustration out on the series. 
second time in overtime. All Primeau said. "Unfortunately and rejoin the play, but the Devils. St. Louis dominated long
four games have been decided 

it didn't happen for us .... referees skated over to cbeck With 13:26 left, Stevens stretches of the first three by one goal. Instead of giving yourself an on his condition when play squared off against All-Star games, but San Jose -which 
Game 5 is Thursday at opportunity to get a lead on stopped. Sandis Ozo1insh as several played without two keyPhiladelphia as the Sabres the road, you're climbing out fights broke out, leaving defensemen -was just as attempt to eliminate the Flyers of a hole." Carolina with just 10 skaters aggressive in Game 4. 
Devils 4, Hurricanes 0
for only the second time in 
at one point. Fans pelted Keith Tkachuk's first goal of
The Carolina Hurricanes
seven playoff meetings. 
Stevens with debris before he the postseason -on a bizarre
Oilers 2, Stars 1 challenged the wrong guy.
"I'm going to tape it up and headed to the penalty box. shot that bounced off the top
Mike Comrie scored a New Jersey captain Scott
use it tho next game," Brown 
Carolina finished with 19 of the net and rolled downpower-play goal at 17:19 of Stevens set the tone again
said while laughing about the penalties for 71 minutes -54 Kiprusoff's body -put St.
overtime as the Edmonton early on with a jarring check
stick. 
in the third -while the Devils Louis up 1-0 with one secondOilers beat the Dallas Stars to that knocked out Carolina cap­
Eluding Flyers defenseman 
were called for 12 for 33 min­left in the first period. 
even their Western Conference tain Ron Francis as the DevilsEric Desjardins, Brown circled utes. But the Sharks roared to lifefirst-round series. dominated the Hurricanes en
around the Philadelphia net, 
"If they can't take the hitting with goals from Vincent
Jamie Langenbrunner high­route to victory and a com­
worked into the s)ot and 
maybe they should change Damphousse, Scott Thorntonsticked Comrie at 16:21, and manding lead in the best-of­snapped a 15-footer that beat 
professions," Devils coach and Owen Nolan in the first 13
the rookie forward made the seven series.
goalie Roman Cechmanek over Larry Robinson said. "The last minutes of the second. In theStars pay in Game 4 of the The defending Stanley Cupthe left shoulder. 
time I looked this was a physi­third, San Jose's defenseseries that has featured three champions have a 3-0 lead in
Brown decided to change 
cal game and body checking clamped down on the Blues,
overtime contests. Dallas won the Eastern Conference quar­
sticks -going from a two­
was allowed. Basically, they who produced a steady stream
the first two overtime games. terfinals against the reeling
piece stick to a one-piece -on dug a hole for themselves tak­of shots but couldn't solve the
Ryan Smyth, stationed Hurricanes, who have been
the prompting of Sabres goalie ing all those penalties." latest goalie to emerge frombehind the net, fanned on a outscored a combined 11-1.
Dominik Hasek. who worried Martin Brodeur recorded ihis San Jose's deep supply.
centering pass but Comrie Stevens was a main target of
that Brown would break a second straight shutout and Kiprusoff found his rhythmpushed the puck behind goalie the Hurricanes after he gavestick during a crucial faceoff 
10th of his playoff career, when he made three rapid-fireEddie Balfour for the winner. Shane Willis a concussion inin the defensive zone. 
stopping 16 shots. Meanwhile, saves during a sparkling
"It was awesome," Comrie the waning moments of New
"I went and got a one-piece Carolina was shut out in con­sequence early in the second.
told the CBC. "We still have a Jersey's 2-0 win Sunday, level­
stick and there was the first 
secutive playoff games for the He made his most spectacular
long series left, but it feels ing the rookie with a hard,
shot with it," said Brown, who first time in franchise history stop 10 minutes later, when hegreat to win." clean mid-ice hit. 
scored his first career over­-a total of 58 games. cleanly gloved a blistering,Game 5 is Thursday night at But it was Carolina and
time goal. "I don't know if I'll New Jersey tied an NHL close-range breakaway shot byDallas. Francis who paid again forgo with it next game or not, 
record with 10 straight road Mike Eastwood -one of 14Moments before getting Stevens on edge.
but old Dom, he pulled a good wins at the end of the regular second-period saves.
Langenbrunner's penalty, "That's like going into a
one there." 
season, and the Devils picked San Jose also won despite a
Oilers defenseman Tom Poti lion's den with a piece of steak
Leave it to the Sabres check­up where they left off. depleted defense. The Sharks,
whipped a wrist shot off the in your hand, getting himing line -which has done a 
one of the NHL's best defen­goal post. angry," Devils defenseman

solid job against the Flyers' 
sive teams in the regular sea­

Tommy Salo got the Oilers to Ken Daneyko said. "The guy is Sharks 3, Blues 2 
top threats -to finally get son, played without Gary
overtime with a spectacular a devastating hitter. Another rookie goalie wear­
into the limelight. 
Suter, who has a concussion,

save off Mike Modano as regu-"I've never seen anything ing teal made life miserable
"l think Curtis was the guy 
and All-Star Marcus

1a tion drew to a close. A like it," he added. "We don't for the St. Louis Blues. 
that just kept showing some 
Ragnarsson, who has the flu.

sprawling Salo got a piece of see it coming from the bench Miikka Kiprusoff. a last­
moxie with the puck," Sabres Turek, who stopped 35 shots
his glove on the drive and and it's clean as can be. He's minute replacement for Evgeni
coach Lindy Ruff said. "(The 
in Game 3, wasn't nearly as

deflected it off the post and like one of those rare middle Nabokov, made 39 saves, and
Flyers) threw everything they 
sharp Tuesday night. San

out. linebacker-type guys that sees San Jose scored three second­
had today.... But (Brown's) Jose's goals from Thornton
Anson Carter opened the the puck coming and times it period goals as the Sharks
line did a good job." 
and Nolan came on stoppable

scoring with his second goal of perfectly." evened their playoff series
Miroslav Satan, Donald shots, but Turek, who made
the playoffs three-quarters of Was it a clean hit? with a victory over the Blues.
Audette and Chris Gratton also 22 saves, was an instant slow
the way through the second The Devils said yes, Game 5 is Thursday night in
scored for the Sabres, who 
on both occasions.

period. Set up by Comrie and Hurricanes coach Paul St. Louis, with Game 6
-became the first team to win a 
The Observer accepls classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. ar che Noire Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nex1-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds musr be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhc right 10 edit all classifieds for content wirhour issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR SALE 
Oakhill Condo -4 bdr/3 bath 1/2 mile tram campus fireplace. deck, pool access $99 ,000/best otter call Tim@ 612-802-0285 
5 miles from Notre Dame Close to everything; 4 bedrooms 
1.5 baths recently remodeled Main level laundry finished base­ment: 2076 living area plenty of storage 
~1112~-0il!l~ 
FOR RENT 
An adorable 1.5 bdrm. House w/ garage by St. Patrick'spark. 702-436-1594 lake living bear Bremen most pets okay new 3 bedroom air. garage, disposal, dishwaher $950/month page 219-935-7845 or call 546­
4430 
Rent for fall semester 4 bedrooms, 2 full bathS, washer&dryer, basement w/ hot tub, new lurnance, security system. Call 277-0636 
SUMMER RENTAL 821 E. Wash 5 bed $200/mo Eric 243-2902 
New home Fall 2001. This 3+ bdrm, 3 bath homw is close to cam­pus with features like fireplace, cahedral ceilings, family room, deluxe appliances, 24x30 garage. 
$1400/mo. Call 219·232-4527 or 616-683-5038. 
Fifth roomate needed for first 
semester. House is close to cam­
pus. 

Call Dan at 4-2091 
Apt. starting June 1. 2 Bdrm 2 Bath. W/D Minutes to campus. Call 243­0070. 
Nice 3-bdrm 1-1/2 bath Tri-level, family room, fireplace, fenced back yard, 2-car garage. $995/mo 
Call 219-232-4527 Or 616-683-5038 
Newly remodeled 5 bedroom house available to rent for fall semester. 2 full baths, washer & dryer, huge rec room, security system. Call now to see 277--0636 1 br sublet 5/15-8/15, Downers Grove, IL, w/d, dw, ale, great com­plex, room for 2 people, $890/mo+util Rachel 312-498-6579 
CHICAGO APT. AVAILABLE FOR MAY THROUGH AUGUST IN LIN­COLN PARK LOCATION. CLOSE TO EL 1 or 2 BEDROOMS 
OWN BATHROOM $780/mo. 1-312-443-6062 JAIME 
ROOMS FOR GRAD WEEKEND Wild Irish Rose Inn 3mi north of campus 
•brkfst buffet ea AM 'clean, comfortable & afford­able (2190 2TT-4303 or 
www wildirishrose com 3-6 BDRM HOMES $180 per person Furn. Summer/Fall 272-6306 
WANTED 

Graduating seniors: Looking to sell your apartment lurni­ture (beds, desks, couches, etc)? ND juniors looking to buy. Cali Nick at 4-4716 if interested. 
PERSONAL 

Eating concerns survey 2000; sum­mary results now available on University counseling Center's Web page http;//www.nd.edu:/-uccJucc_ed_su rvey_2000.html 
Indiana Catholic couple with huge 
hearts wishing to adopl a child. We can provide your baby with lots of love and a secure, stable life 
Reasonable expenses will be paid. 
For more into, please call Rebecca re Larry and Cathy: toll-free 
1-866-30-ADOPT. 
Hey Phil· Can I have a sample? 
LOST: Set of keys with a gold ND keychain anel a red swiss army krnfe. cau Sam at 4-1981 
Strawb -good luck with all your stuff this week. Hang in there, your older sister is pulling for you. 
Hopefully, its bedtime soon. 

, 
Wednesday, April 18, 2001 page 17
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
AN OPEN LETTER TO R.O. T.C. STUDENTS 
Insofar as men are sinners, the threat ofwar hangs over them and will so continue until Christ comes again; but insofar as they can vanquish sin by coming together in charity, violence itself will be vanquished and these words will be fulfilled: "they shall beat their swords into plowshares, and their spears into pruning hooks; nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any more. " (Catechism ofthe Catholic Church, section 2317) 
Dear Friends in Christ, 
When today you march in front ofFather Malloy, and receive the approval of the University at the annual Presidential Review, we will be with you -though with a different purpose. Before the Presidential Review was moved into Loftus, we had planned a protest for South Quad. We had hoped to sit in the shape of a cross, in your marching path -so that a cross would alter the ceremony. After you marched around us, we would have stood up peacefully and walked aside. 
Why do such a thing? The reason is simple. You are being trained for the United States Military and this organization has consistently disregarded teachings ofJesus and ofthe Church. Some ofthe historic examples: Pope Paul VI called the bombing ofHiroshima and Nagasaki "a butchery ofuntold proportions,"and Pope John Paul II prayed "never again war, an adventure without return, never again war, a spiral of death and violence; no war in the Persian Gulf, a threat against all your creatures in heaven, on the earth and in the sea." By participating in such a structure -even though it has provided upwards of $100,000 in scarce tuition money -you could risk joining the military in,its disregard for these authoriJies_. We understand your choice; our issue, is with Notre Dame. 
.,!Jvrh ? rl hn 10• Tlo;:,,·,,·i~ hn.s iuoJmii-;t,.,,;.r;-,, ,. ; ,')',, ,,.. • • • • 
, Brothers and sisters, you are not rece1vmg a full Catholic format10n at Our Lady's Umvers1ty. Your R.O.T.C. cur­riculum is determined by the Department of Defense. Even your commanders have said that allowing Notre Dame or the Church to augment the required curriculum would be opening a Pandora's Box ofproblems. But the Pentagon, as history and present military preparedness plans plainly show, does not acknowledge the requirements of the Catholic Church for entering and waging war. These standards ofthe Church are strict, far more strict than any upheld by the United States. 
The blessing that occurs with this ceremony goes beyond merely accepting the R.O.T.C. presence on campus and implies that the R.O.T.C. mission is -at minimum -in harmony with the mission ofthe Catholic Church, through which the blessing is given. This less-than-critical presence fails to embody the Gospel and the full voice that the Church brings to bear on modem warfare training. Praying in the form ofa cross was the best way we could think ofto embody those teachings at the ceremony. In light ofthe decision to move the ceremony to Loftus, we will not disrupt it by sitting in the way ofthe march. 
Some ofthose who are not Catholic have similar reasons of faith to protest the Presidential Review. Others believe that the US military has too often fought on the side of injustice, against the poor and powerless. There are many reasons for students outside ofthe Catholic faith to support our action. 
It is not just a matter of"what the Gospel says,, or "what the Catechism says." These documents are not abstract manuals for life and society. Rather, they are rooted in the sacrifice ofJesus Christ and express a law that is written in our hearts. We know well that you, like us, look into your hearts and are holy and faithful people. We claim no superiority, and we do not wish to ruin your ceremony. Rather, we seek to make present a voice that needs to be heard at Notre Dame. 
In Peace, Pax Christi Notre Dame 
All are invited to join us today at 3:30 at the Grotto from where we will process to Loftus for prayer, speeches and music. 
-' 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 18, 2001 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Branyan hits grand slam, leads Indians to 8-1 victory 
Ryan retired Jim Thome and bases and Koskie, who was 4-Toronto starter Esteban three losing streaks of four or 
Associated Prc>S 
issued an intentional walk to for-4 Sunday, singled to left. Loaiza (3-0) pitched six strong more games last year, had Wil Cordero before Branyan hit Bob Wells (1-0) got the last innings for his second victory taken a 4-3 lead in the eighthBALTIMORE a 3-2 pitch into the ClevPland four outs for Minnesota. over the Yankees. off Matt Anderson (1-0) on RBIBussell Branyan hit a grand bullpen beyond the center-field Mike Sweeney hit a go-ahead Loaiza allowed three runs -singles by Paul Koncrko andslam and Dave Burba pitched wall. sacrifice fly in the eighth inning one earned -and five hits in Carlos Lee. 
six solid innings to earn his 
Successive throwing errors for the Royals after the Twins six innings. He struck out three Damion Easley singled off
first win this season as the 
by second baseman Jerry tied the game in the seventh on and walked one. Kelly Wunsch (0-1} leading off
Cleveland Indians beat 
Hairston enabled the Indians to Lawton's sacrifice fly and Tony Batista drove in two the bottom half and ClarkBaltimore 8-1 Tuesday night. 
add an unearned run for an 8-1 Koskie's RBI single. runs and Jose Cruz homered homered to left-center, the
Branyan's second career 
lead. Mark Quinn led off the eighth for Toronto. which has won deepest part of Comerica Park.
slam. which traveled about 430 Mercedes retired his first two with a single and wound up at three of four against New York Wendell Magee added a two­
feet, highlighted a five-run 
batters before Cleveland used third when Lawton let the ball this season. run, two-out triple off Bobby
sixth inning. It was his fifth 
three singles and a pair of go by in right. Billy Koch allowed a two-run Howry.
homer, tying him with Juan 
walks to take a 3-0 lead. One out later, Sweeney hit a double to Derek Jeter in the Todd Jones pitched the ninthGonzalez for the team lead. 
Thome, who came in with two deep fly to center to scorn ninth before getting Paul for his fourth save.
A 16-game winner a year 
RBIs. doubled that total with a Quinn. O'Neill to ground out for his Before a crowd of justago, Burba was winless with a two-run single and Cordero fol­Brian Meadows. who had fourth save. 13,068, Detroit's Jose Macias7.84 ERA in two starts before lowed with a run-scoring allowed five runs and eight hits The Yankees led 3-0 after went 3-for-4 with a two-run
limiting the Orioles to a run 
infield hit. in each of his lirst two starts, two innings, but Toronto tied it homer, tying his career high
and four hits. He was lifted 
pitched into the seventh but left in the third on Gonzalez's first for hits. 
after giving up successive sin­with two on and no outs. He homer and Mondesi's steal. Tigers starter Dave Mlicki
gles opening the seventh. Twins 6, Royals 5 
was charged with four runs Batista walked off Keisler gave up two runs -one earnedBurba (1-1), who retired 12 Corey Koskie hit a game-win­and seven hits. with the bases loaded in the -and six hits in seven innings.
straight at one point, struck out ni n g, two-run single in the fourth to give Toronto the lead. He gave up live runs in each offour and walked three in ninth inning for his fourth hit of Cruz hit his fourth homer in the his previous two starts, failing
improving to 4-0 against the ganie as the Minnesota 
Blue Jays 6, Yankees 5 
fifth to make it 5-3 and Batista to get past the fifth inning.
Baltimore. Twins beat the Kansas City 
Raul Mondesi completed the 
hit an RBI single in the eighth. llerbert Perry gave the White
Chris llichard homered for Royals. 
first straight steal of home in 
The Yankees played the game Sox a 1-0 lead in the secondthe Orioles. Cal Ripken ground­Jason Grimsley (0-1) gave up 
Toronto history and Alex 
without center fielder Bernie with his first homer of the year. 
ed into a double play with the his first two runs of the year. 
Gonzalez hit a two-run homer 
Williams, who has missed eight But Perry made his f'<>urth
Kansas City has three blown

bases loaded in the first inning 
as the Blue Jays handed the straight games to be with his error in four games in the
and went O-for-2. lowering his saves this year and 59 since the 
New York Yankees their third 
ailing father in Puerto Rico. fourth, mishandling a Oevibatting average to .125. He was start of the 1999 season. straight loss. 
Cruz grounder to third.
lifted for a pinch hitter in the Koskie had his second four­
Mondesi broke toward home 
Robert Fick followed with an

seventh with the game out of hit game of the week. A.J. Tigers 7, White Sox 4 
plate just before New York 
RBI double over Jose Valentin's
reach. Pierzynski led off the ninth Tony Clark hit a go-ahead,
starter Randy Keisler (0-1) 
head in center, and Macias
with a broken-bat single to two-run homer in a four-run
Cleveland led 3-1 before 
started his wind up. 
homered on the next pitch.
pulling away in the sixth. After right, and Cristian Guzman eighth innin as the Detroit
Keisler's pitch was high, and 
Valentin doubled home a runGonzalez singled and Ellis reached first on a bunt. Tigers beat Chicago, sending

there was no tag as Mondesi 
in the fifth after right fielderBurks doubled, B.J. Ryan Denny Hocking sacrificed the the White Sox to their fourth
stole home for the second time 
Roger Cedeno dropped Hay
replaced Baltimore starter Jose runners over, Matt Lawton was straight loss.
in his career, tying the game at 
Durham's liner for an error.
Mercedes (0-3). intentionally walked to load the The White Sox, who had only
3 in the third. 

cept, 
,... ;rt -' ~~~ ,."~~1:11=~:i-: -~~~?'i 
red Fre 
ilosoph 

<<.:, .·' 'o'·n·,r,1,•.,,._,:.. . 
. :J....·'lf"''·;:;.,-· .....~f:1'41 -rg;t-,; .. 
----~ >(:.:.-r~~{<---~ _,-~·r/?1~,=~tf(<.:·-~:.( . ._.. 
by students that"See. :~ir 
strengthen., and encourage the life ·, 
ofvirtue andfaith on campus. It also 
seeks to provide an environmentfor 

open discussion with all members 
·,of.the Notre Dame community Wednesday, A· .1",~speciaJ/y,thp~~ who are curious 6PM-7PM~ Room 101, Law 
. . -~· ·--~ , ·, 
·11 b lowed by a Q
or d,Qf{./;!; • 
. ~-;ir":-·· :; 
ofvit 

Wednesday, April 18, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Johnson drives Marlins to 3-2 victory against Braves 
Associated Press 
ATlANTA 

Charles Johnson hit a tiebreak­ing homer in the seventh inning and the Florida bullpen finally protected a lead, giving the Marlins a 3-2 victory over the Atlanta Braves on Tuesday night. 
Vladimir Nunez (1-1) allowed just four hits in seven innings for his lirst win since Sept. 28. 1999. He was 0-6 with a 7.90 ERA last year. 
The Marlins bullpen, 0-6 with a 5.20 ERA through 12 games, made things exciting but got the job done. · 
In the eighth, Armando Almanza threw eight straight balls but actually picked up an out when Rafael Furcal tried to steal third but overslid the bag and was tagged out. 
Braden Looper then retired Chipper Jones and Brian Jordan on infield grounders to end the inning. Antonio Alfonseca got through the ninth for his second save, getting Wes Helms on a grounder for the final out with a runner at second. 
John Burkett (0-2) took the loss despite a career-high 11 strikeouts in seven innings. He was cruising along until his 100th pitch, which Johnson sent into the left-field seats for his third homer of the season. 
The game was played on an unseasonably cold night in Atlanta. The temperature was 48 degrees at the start and a strong wind made it feel downright frigid. 
Braves catcher Eddie Peroz. out for the year with a shoulder injury. huddled in front of a heater in the corner of the dugout, even borrowing the fur cap of a security officer who was sitting next to him. 
The crowd was announced at 27,522 but there appeared to be no more than 10,000 in the stands by the end of the game. Those who remained huddled under blankets and winter coats. 
The first inning dragged on for a half-hour. with Burkett throw­ing 30 pitches and Nunez need­ing 26 to get through. 
The Marlins broke through with three straight singles, including Preston Wilson's run­scoring hit that barely got over the glove of Furcal as he leaped at shortstop. 
Javy Lopez had a passed ball, setting up a sacrifice fly by Mike Lowell that brought home an unearned run. 
Mets 4, Expos 0 
Glendon Rusch threw seven shutout innings, and Todd Zeile homered and drove in three runs to lead the New York Mets to a victory over the Montreal Expos. 
Rusch (1-0). who has not allowed a run in 14 innings at home this season, allowed five hit.5, walked three and struck out nine -one short of tying his career high. 
Rusch threw 122 pitches and was never in any serious trouble as the Expos didn't got a runner beyond second base against him. Turk Wendell finished the six­hitter. 
Montreal. which started the season 6-1, has lost three in a row and six of seven. The Expos left 10 runners on base, and at least one in every inning except the ninth. 
New York. which entered last in the NL with a .223 batting average and 40 runs scored, again showed signs of coming out of its offensive slump by scoring four runs for the second straight night against the Expos. 
Zeile, who entered 5-for-22 (.227) with one RBI on the home­stand, went 3-for-4 and provided the bulk of the Mets offense. 
The Mets took a 2-0 lead in the third on Zeile's home run, their first in four games. Rey Ordonez hit a lea.doff single off Chris Peters (1-1) and moved to second on Rusch's sacrifice. After Desi Relaford struck out. Zeile hit a 2­2 fastball from Peters over the left-field wall for his first homer 

Presidemini Pa§§ in Review 

TODAY 4:j0pM ON SouTl-t QuAd 
Joint ROTC paye tribute tot.he Univereit.y of Notre Dame and Revie11t1ing Officer 
Rev. Edward A. Malloy, CSC
A. *Inclement wea.tlier site LoftusSports Omte:r 

The perfect home: That's been your dream. 
Now, with annual percentage rates as low as they are, you can live your dream. Notre Dame Federal Credit Union can help. We'll design a fixed or ad1ustable-rate mortgage around your specific needs. Plus, you can finance up to 100% of your home. And, we'll do it for you quickly, with no hassles. We even offer first mortgages nationwide! Still dreaming of your perfect home? Notre Dame Federal Credit Union will help make it a reality. 
~ 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You can bank on us 
to be better 

Indiana and Michigan 
219/239-661 I • 800/522-6611 
Outside Indiana and Michigan 
800/400-4540 You can also stop by your nearest branch or visit our web site at www.ndfcu.org. 
~@. 
~ LENDER 
Independent of the University 

of the season. 
Reds 3, Brewers 2 
Barry Larkin returned to Cincinnati's lineup, drove in a run and scored twice as the Reds beat the Milwaukee Brewers before their smallest crowd since 1999. 
The Reds sold only 15,729 tick­ets for their first home game since the city's rioting last week. Fans were asked to stand for a moment of silence before the game to contemplate the com­munity unrest. 
The Brewers rode from their hotel to Cinergy Field in two buses. Teams usually charter only one bus because a lot of players walk or take cabs to the ballpark. 
The weather was a big factor in the Reds' smallest home crowd since Sept. 13, 1999. Sleet and rain interrupted batting practice and resulted in a 66­minute delay to the first pitch. It was 36 degrees when the Reds 
took the field, many of them wearing black head coverings under the caps to keep their necks and ears warm. 
Larkin, who missed the Reds' last two games with a strained left wrist, figured in all three runs as Cincinnati won its fifth straight. He had a run-scoring groundout in the third, singled and scored in the sixth. and started the go-ahead rally in the eighth off Will Cunnane (0­1). 
Larkin's sinking liner dropped just in front of right fielder Jeromy Burnitz for a double. 
Scott Sullivan (1-1) struck out Richie Sexson on three pitches to end the Brewers' eighth, and Danny Graves pitched the ninth for his fifth save in six chances. 
A magnetic resonance imag­ing test before the game found that Ken Griffey Jr. has a par­tially torn left hamstring. He'll remain on the active roster as a pinch-hitter. hut won't be able to play the field for the foreseeable future. 
Griffey didn't play in Tuesday's game. 
Runs and rallies were hard to come by in the bitter, damp cold. 
ri? Backpack ~ Passport ii? Eurailpass
Yott are so 
ready for 
Et1ro1)e. 

With amoney-saving Eurail­pass, you can make tracks in Europe wherever and whenev­er the impulse moves you. 
Avariety of Railpasses are available, including: Eurailpass Youth F/exi ­Travel any 10/15 days in 2 months (17 countries), $458/599• 
GE~ailEurope 
[11,mitOO Travel~ 
America's Leader in Student Travel 
1-800-2Council 
www.counciltravel.com 

"Must be under age 26 on first day of travel. 


page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 18, 2001 

GOLF 
Irish win Classic, set record 
Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame women's golf team turned in rounds of 306 and 313 for a 36-hole total of 619 to outdistance the 16 team field in the Illinois Spring Golf Classic by three strokes over the University of Illinois. The Irish set a tournament course record at the par 72, 5,842 yard Stone Creek Golf Club with the 619 total which was nine strokes better than last yllar's winner, S.W. Missouri State, who shot a 628 to win in 2000. 
The lournamcnt win was the second by the Irish this spring and the third this season. the most-ever by any Notre Dame women's golf team in the histo­ry of the program. The Irish entered the day with a seven stroke lead over Illinois and were able to hold on for the win. Illinois finished second with a 622 total (313-309) and was followed by Ohio University with a 636 (314-322) in third. Western Michigan took fourth place with a 647 (328-319) while Bradley (327-323) and Illinois State (323-327) tied for fifth with 650 totals. 
Individually, the Irish went into the final round with senior Shane Smith and freshman Shannon Byrne tied for first after shooting opening round 74's. They settled for a third place tie as both shot closing round 79's for 153 totals. The tie for third was the best finish in both player's careers while the 153 was Smith's best 36­hole finish of the 2000-01 sea­son. 
The Notre Dame duo finished two strokes behind Illinois State's Nicole Foy who tired a closing round 75 to go with an opening day 76 for a 153 total. Southwest Missouri State's Jessica Polus, the defending tournament champion. finished second with a 152 total (77-75). She was followed by Smith and Byrne who lied for third with Illinois' Marla Cox (7 6-77} to round out the top five individ­ual finishers. 
Terri Taibl continued her strong play this spring with a 10th place finish as she con­tributed rounds of 79 and 78 for a 13-over par total of 157. Freshman Rebncca Rogers closed out the Irish scoring with a 171 total on rounds of 88 and 83. 
The Illinois Spring Classic closes out the 2000-01 season for the Notre Dame women's golf team. 
Men's Golf 
The Notre Dame men's golf team shot a final round total of 308 to make up six strokes to move up two spots in the stand­ings to finish tied with Wisconsin for eighth place at the Kepler Intercollegiate Golf Tournament. The Irish, who opened the day in 10th place, finished with a 61-over par total of 913 along with the Badgers. Both teams finished 20 strokes behind Ohio State as the Buckeyes made up seven strokes during the final 18 holes to move from fourth place to win with a 54-hole total of 893 (298-298-297) on their home course, the par 71, 7,221-yard Ohio State Scarlet Course. 
The Irish turned in rounds of 296, 309 and :108 on the week­end. Michigan, who led after two rounds. fell to third with an 895 total (292-297-306) as the Wolverines were passed by both Ohio State and Northwestern (894/295-295­304). Kent State finished fourth with an 899 (303-289-307) and Michigan State rounded out the top five teams in the 17-team tournament with a 901 total (300-300-301). 

Leading Notre Dame individu­ally was sophomore Kyle Monfort who finished in a three-way tic for 19th with a 13-over par total of 226 on rounds of 74. 76 and 76. Monfort finished 14 strokes behind tournament winner, Luke Donald of Northwestern, who was the only golfer to fin­ish under par with a one-under 212 after firing rounds of 71, 69 and 72. Donald won the tournament by seven strokes over Ohio State's Kevin Hall who shot a six-over par 219 for the weekend. 
Following Monfort for the Irish was junior Steve Hatay who tied for 23rd, just one stroke behind Monfort with a 227 total. Ratay opened with a one-under 70 in the first round, struggled with an 82 in the sec­ond round and had Notre Dame's best round Sunday with a 7 5. Ratay·s opening round 70 had tied him for second after 18 holes on Saturday. 
Notre Dame returns to action on Friday, April 20 when the Irish compete in the 54-hole First Energy Collegiate Tournament at Kent State. The two-day tourney will be played at the Windmill Lakes Golf Club in Ravenna. Ohio. 
TENNIS 

Hingis edges past 
Lama de for victory 
Associated Pre•• 

CHARLESTON, S.C. 
Top-seeded Martina Hingis survived a first-set challenge to beat Germany's Bianka Lamade 7-6 (4), 6-1 on Tuesday in the second round of the Family Circle Cup. 
Third-seeded Conchita Martinez also advanced, overcoming a slow start and swirling wind to beat Lilia Osterloh 1-6, 6-3, 6-0. 
Martinez, ranked eighth in the world, leads all active WT A Tour players with 20 titles on clay. two in the Family Circle Cup. 
But the 29-year-old Spaniard fell behind 4-0 in the first set against the 45th-ranked Osterloh, and lost the set on a double fault. 
"I couldn't put any balls in the court. and it was hard with the wind," Martinez said. "After that, I finally got my game back and 
lt,s all the buzz 



Get your head together. Crop it, color it, curl it comb it, chunk it, crunch it. 
.f,:~1~1''• l1j.~t,,,, 

]:::. i'.\~R11us get a FREE GIFT with :ei,., ..,_y(S~r new 'do.* Redken True 
·!}ff,:'.~,...-......": i~ •f'-:1. -;.,

' . ~f-tCEJ,lm Chill Shampoo-1 0. 1 oz .°(J. 85 value 
free with any hair care service while supplies last 
spicy1 
not 
pricey 
• 

m1a&MOXX 
HAIR STUDIO 
University Park Mall 
219.277.4427 
didn't make as many mis­takes." 
The wind blew clouds of loose clay around the play­ers' feet, while fans huddled under blankets for warmth. 
"I woke up this morning, and I thought I was in England," 11th-seeded Lisa Haymond said. "I was like, gosh. We used to come in here and it would be so nicB a11d warm. It can be a tough transition." 
Raymond was on court barely an hour in her (>-3, 6-0 first-round victory over Japanese qualifier Hika Kiraki. 
In second-round matches, 10th-seeded i\my Frazier beat Germany's Andrea Glass 6-2, 6-2. and 14th­seeded Gala Leon Garcia of Spain def'cated Italy's Adriana Serra-Zanetti 6-1, 6-4. 
The tournament is being played at the Daniel Tennis Centre after 28 years at Hilton !lead Island. 

Tuesday, April 18, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
Baseball 
continued from page 28 
West Virginia squad. Mountaineer pitcher Vance McCracken carried a perfect game into the fifth inning. until sophomore Brian Stavisky reached base on an infield hit. 
Left fielder Kris Billmaier then followed with a ground­ball that was mishandled by the shortstop Adrian Dorsey. 
After catcher Paul O'Toole advanced the players with a sacrifice bunt, Slavisky was able to tie the game by scor­ing on a wild pitch from McCracken. 
The Irish then took the lead on an RBI single from right fielder Matt Bok. 
In the sixth inning, the Irish added two more runs, cour­tesy or a two-run homerun from Stavisky. his fourth of the year. 
ln the nightca.p, the West Virginia hitters were unable to solve the masterful pitch­ing of Danny Tamayo. The senior right-hander recorded a complete game, striking out seven and only allowing one unearned run on six hits. 
"I really felt good out there,·• said Tamayo after his strong outing. "I felt like I was using my fastball a lot, and I could spot it pretty well. I just tried to hit that and then keep them off-balance with my changeup." 
The Irish jumped right out on top in the first inning when consecutive singles from Steve Stanley, Steve Sollmann. and 

Porzel -the 
NCAA proposal IDay keep players in class 
three hitters -brought home day with two HBls and two runs 
als become official, they must

the first two runs of the game. scored. 
be approved by the Division I 

Notre Dame added six more The Irish return to action 
Board of Directors and survive 

runs over the next eight innings Thursday at Frank Eck Stadium 
a 90-day comment period

and were aided at the plate with a mid-week game against 
open to every school within 

with a strong performance Central Michigan (23-12) at 5 
the NCAA. 

from junior Andrew Bushey, p.m. 
Any student-athlete playing men's or women's basketball or baseball interested in a one-time loan must be consid­ered a potential first-round draft pick to qualify. For stu­dent-athletes in football and hockey, the player must be predicted to be drafted in the third round or better. 
The same standards apply to student-athletes looking to have the NCAA cover their disability insurance premi­ums. Even if the proposals are approved. they won't take effect until August 2002. 
Newton said the amateur issue is one of great interest among players and coaches across the country. He said the NCAA's ruling on the issue will affect a large amount of people. 
'Tve followed the deregula­tion of amateurism through the NCAA and it's coming to a little bit of a head right now," Newton said. 
He said the loans probably won't affect collegiate hockey, but added it's still a good idea. 
Judy Van Horn. associate director or compliance at MSU, said amateurism has become a major issue and seeing all the discussion translate into action, whether it's approved. is encouraging. 
"Dealing with NCAA rules is very cumbersome," she said "I do think it's a step in the right direction. Time will tell." 
THf 
CHDISTIRH PLRTOHISH 

of Simone Weil 
April 1g-22. 2001 
at the Uni uersit~ 
of Notre Dame 
Web site: 
www.nd.edu/~weilaws 
Organized by 
E. Jane Doering, University of Notre Dame 
and 
Eric 0. Springsted, Princeton Theological Seminary 
Questions? 
Coll (219) 631-6691 fox (219) 631-8083 E-mail: cce.1@nd.edu 
one. two, and who went three for four on the 
The American Weil Soci.~ty celebrates 1• its 2 l st year with an international conference at the University of Notre Dame Center for Continuing Education, McKenna Hall. Noted keynote speak­ers from France, England, and America will participate thanks to major funding by the Florence Gould Foundation, The Henkels Lecture Series, and the generosity of the following groups at Notre Dame: Core Course, Gender Studies, the Graduate School, the Department of Government, the 
THURSDAY, APRIL 19 
7:30 p.m.: 

The Reverend Theodore M. Hesburgh, Professor Emeritus of the University of Noire Dome, will introduce the first keynote speaker, Louis Dupre, Profes.,or Emeriru. of Yole University, who will sel the tone for the conference with his presentation: "Christion Platonism: !Is Pas/ and Future. • 
Reception in McKenna Holl 
FRIDAY, APRIL 20 
8130-10 a.m.: Session A 

lorry Schmidt and Pat Patterson, University of 
Toronto 

"The Christian Materialism ofSimone Weil" 
Robert Chenavier, President of l'Association pour l'erude de lo pensee de Simone Weil. "Simone Weil. Platonisme acheve et materialisme coherent," given in French 
1 0:30 a.m.-noon Session 8 

Richard Bell, The College of Wooster "Justice: Retributive or Restorative? Reflections in the South African Truth and Reconciliation Commission with Simone Weil" 
Christine Evans, Lesley College "Completing the Unfinished Story: Analyses of the Debacle 1940-43 by Simone Weil and Some Contemporaries" 
Session C 

Patricia Reynaud, Miami University: , "Prise de propositions de Simone Weil sur le "monde du melange,• given in French 
By BEN KEIM 
State News 
EAST LANSING, Mich. 
Responding to the increase of college basketball players leaving early for the NBA, the NCAA recently approved sev­eral proposals intended to keep the student in ''student­athletes." 
On April 10, the NCAA Division I Management Council passed proposals that would allow student-athletes to apply for a one-time bank loan up to $20,000, engage in fee-for-lesson employment and receive money to com­pensate for training costs if the player places in an Olympic event. 
The NCAA also proposed making available premiums on student-athlete disability insurance. 
"[n a lot of situations with the NCAA, I think (the loan) is a good idea," Michigan State assistant hockey coach Tom Newton said Monday. "It will allow players to stay in school and take care of some factors that they couldn't take care of under present rule." 
Before these NCAA propos­

International Studies Program and the Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts. The presentations will explore how Simone Weil's reading of ancient Platonism and Christianily make her a major figure in the history of Christian Platonism and give that tradition contemporary relevance. 
The conference will begin the evening of Thursday, April 19, with an opening keynote address by Professor Louis Dupre (introduced by Fr. Theodore 
M. Hesburgh, C.S.C). The Schola 
Vance Morgan, Providence College 
"Simone Weil and the Divine Poetry ofMathematics" 
1:30 -2:30 p.m.: 
Keynote Address: Emmanuel Gabellieri, l'Universile Cotholiqve de Lyon "Reworking Platonism: Simone Weil's Trinitarian Metaxology," given in English 
3:00-5: 1 5 p.m.: Session D 

Cyril O'Regan, University of Notre Dome "Counter-Mimes;s and Simone We;/'s Christian Platonic Hint For Overcoming the Clamor of Evil" 
Eric 0. Springsled, Pdnceton Theological Seminary "I dreamed/ saw Saini Augustine... • 
7:30-9:00 p.m.: Keynote Address: David Tracy, University of Chicago "Simone Weil: Tragedy, Plato and Christianily" 
9:30 p.m.: 

Concert by the Scola Musicorum 
SATURDAY, APRIL 21 
8:30-10:00 a.m.: Session E 
Florence Delussy, Bibliollieque Nationole, Paris "'To on'. Quelque chose sans nom sur quoi /'esprit bute, 11 gi"Cn in French 
lnese Radzins, Vanderbilt University 
"Model and Monogenes: Simone Wei/'s Timaeus and TrinihJrian Crealion" 
I 0:30 a.m.-noon: Session F 
Martin Andie, University of Massachusetts-Boston 
"Freedom in Boethivs and Weil" 
Musicorum of Notre Dame's Music Department will give a concert of Gregorian chant on Friday evening after the keynote address by David Tracy. After the banquet, Notre Dame students from the "Simone Weil: Justice, Grace and Creativity" course will give a reading from Stephanie Strickland's "The 
Red Virgin: A Poem of Simone Weil." The conference will end at Sunday noon after a concluding round table discus­sion. 
No charge for Notre Dame faculty or students. 
J.P. Little, St. Patrick's College, Dublin "Simone Wei/ and Tantric Buddhism" 
Session G 

Lissa McCullough, University of Chicago 
"Simone Wei/'s 'Platonism'? The Argument 
Against" 

Michael Ross, Catholic Universily: 
"Simone Weil on the Good: !he Early and Middle 
Years" 

1:30-2:45 p.m.: Keynote Address: Michel Narcy, Centre national de research scientifique 
"Limiles el signifi,;;ation du platonisme de Simone 
Weil," given in French 
3:00-4:30 p.m.: Session H Diogenes Allen, Princeton Theological Seminary 
"The Need For History" 
Miklos Veto, l'Universite de Poitiers 
"Simone Weil: Between Plato and Kant" 
7-10 p.m.: Banquet 

Reading of selected poems in Stephanie Strickland's "The Red Virgin" by sh/dents in the 
Noire Dame course: "Simone Weil: }vs/ice, Groce and Creativity" 
SUNDAY APRIL 22 
10:30 a.m.: 

Concluding Panel Discussion on "The Relevance and Fu hire of Weil Studies• in the university course curriculum 

Wednesday, April 18, 200 I 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS 
SOFTBALL 

Alma overwhelms Belles, wins two 
By MOLLY McVOY Senior Scaff W ritcr 
The No.8 team in the coun­
try proved too much for the 
Belles, as they dropped a dou­
ble header to the Scots of 
Alma College, 8-0 and 8-0 on 
Friday. 
Saint Mary's starters junior Kristin Martin and senior Anne Senger gave up two and three earned runs respective­ly. Howevlff, the Belles had costly errors in both games, and Alma took advantage by scoring 11 runs off tho errors. 
"Ir you look at our pitching numbers, Kristin gave up two earned runs and Anne gave up three," said head coach John Kovach. "Unfortunately, we had a couple of inopportune errors that opened the flood­gate." 
Bolh games were called after five innings. because of the eight-run rule in the MIM. If a team has an eight­run lead after five complete innings, the game is ended according to the rule. 
Both Senger and Martin pitched all five innings of the games. 
"We just got into a hole in a big way," Kovach said. "Because we've had trouble hitting, it's hard to come back from three or four runs." 
The costly errors were more an issue of timing than an issue of poor defense, accord­ing to Kovach. In addition. the lack of hitting added to the impact of the errors. 
"By and large, our defense has been pretty good this year," Kovach said. "When matched up with last year's team, statistically, we're head and shoulders above them. When you have a good club like Alma, they're going to 
take advantage of errors. You 
can't give good clubs extra 
outs." 
The only extra-base hit by either team in both games was a double by Martin in the first game. A string of singles by /\Ima added up to the 16 runs scored in the two games. 
"We were just kind of dinged to death," Kovach said. "When its that kind of nickle and dime stuff. its really hard to watch." 
The Belles were scheduled to play Calvin at home on Monday. but the game was cancelled because of the rain on Sunday and the cold tem­peratures on Monday. 
They will face Olivet today at 3 p.m. at home. Olivet is cur­rently behind Saint Mary's in the MIAA and bas yet to record a league win. 
"We should play well against Olivet," Kovach said. "Olivet has struggled a litlle bit in the conference." 
The Belles face two more conference double headers against Calvin at home and at Kalamazoo after facing Olivet. In order to make the MIAA playoffs, the Belles must win all six games. 
"Basically, our backs are against the wall," Kovach said. "If we want to get into the conference tournament, we have to go 6-0. Kalamazoo (4­
6) is the club we're going to be chasing." . 
Kovach is looking to pitch Senger and freshman Libby Wilhelmy against Olivet. He then hopes to start Senger and Martin for the double headers against Calvin and Kalamazoo. 
"That rotation gets libby in there for a few games and gives our experience most of the hurling," Kovach said. Winning is again about getting our bats going." 
,.A 
':~ 
1! j• !
. '•

~OUR WORLD~ 
YOUR CHANCE 10 MAKE IT BETTEft .. 

AmerlCorps Information Session Wednesday, April 18, 2001 • 6:00 p.m. • Center for Social Concerns For more Information, please contact Courtney Nicholas at 312-353-0574 or cnicholas@cns.gov 
Observer Staff Report 

Llz Miller. head coach of Notre Dame Women·s softball record­ed the 900th win of her career in the second game of a double­header sweep at home against Pittsburgh. 
The Irish, with wins by 2-0 and 8-0 scores, improved their record to 36-3, and are unde­feated in the Big East at 10-0. They are currently ranked 11th in the country. 
Pitchers Jen Sharron and Kristin Schmidt both pitched shutouts. Sharron allowed two hits and had 12 strikeouts, and improved her record to 19-2. Schmidt let up a hit and a walk, and struck out nine to get her 17th win against only one loss. She is currently fourth in the nation with a 0.51 ERA. . 
Current Big East Player of the Week Jarrah Myers was 2-4 with two walks. She is now bat­ting .384 on the season, and is 
First Annual Vinual career Fair 
Monday, April 16th through Monday, April 30th Sponsored by The University of Notre Dame Career Center 
The Career Center invites May graduates of the Colleges of Arts &Letters, Business Administration, Engineering, and Science lo participate in our first annual Vinual career fair, Currently we have over 80 companies participating. Seize this 
opportunity to explore careers with employers such as: 
Accenture  Fifth Third Bank  
Alcoa  Gang Crime Prevention Center  
Anson Industries, Inc.  General Electric  
Applied Biosystems  Gibbs &Soell  
ASG Rennaissance  Hormel Foods  
Bank One Corporation  Human Genome Institute  
Booz Allen &Hamilton  IBM Corporation  
City of New York/Parks and Recreation  International Paper  
Clarity Consulting  Juniper Financial Corporation  
Endocyte  KPMG, LlP,,  
Essential Logic  Lab Supp6ri ii.  
ExcelonCorp  Mass Mutual Insurance  

'The list of participating employers increases daily. II you don'! see an opportunity that interests you, check back later. 
Follow these easy steps to point &click your way to an interview: , Go lo careercen!er.nd.edJ.J 
• 
Click on the Go Irish bar at the top of the page , Login , Find jobs 

• 
Scroll to the bottom of the page &highlight 'Spring 2001 Virtual Career Fair in Career Center Events and hit search. , Atter you have identdied positions that interest you, submit your resume by selecting the apply button under each individual job. 


Seniors, slop by !he Career Center for on-call hours Monday through Friday, 1:30 to 4:00 or drop by the Grand Hall at O'Shaughnessy, 11 :30 to 5:00, April 23rd and 24th• Career Counselors will be available for one-on-one job search assistance or to review your resume. If you have additional questions contact the Career Center at 1-5200. 
Good luck!!! 

posting a team leading .652 
slugging percentage. 

The Irish surrendered just 
three hits in both games com­
bined, Jen Sharron giving up 
two in the first game and Kristin 
Schmidt pitching her fifth one­
hitter of the season in the sec­
ond. 

With the two shutouts over the 
Panthers, Sharron and Schmidt 
have combined for a school­
record eight consecutive 
shutouts to lower the team ERA 
to 0.88. Sharron has lowered 
her personal ERA to 1.06. 

The pitching staff also has 18 
shutouts this season (Sharron 
with nine and Schmidt with 
eight), leaving them just three 
off the school record for 
shutouts in a season (21 in 1999 
and 1996). 

The first game was character­.ize'd by an unusually quiet Irish 
offense. It was not until junior 
Jarrah Myers stuck it out for 13 
pitches that the Irish produced 
some runs. After falling behind 
McGraw-HIii MediChem Research, Inc. Microsoft Corporation National City Corporation Northrop Grumman Corporation Oceanit Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology TO Securities 
U.S. 
Department of Justice 

U.S. 
House of Representatives Wells Fargo WLS-TV 


0-2, Myers hit the 13th pitch of the at-bat for a triple. 
Lizzy Lemire hit a single that sent Myers home for Notre Dame's first run. Andrea Loman hit a RBI single to give the Irish a 2-0 victory. 
The Irish offense took control in game two. Danielle Klayman and Kas lloag each had multi­hit games leading the charge in the game. The Irish scored three runs in the first and added runs in fifth and sixth. 
This season marks one of the most successful seasons in the program's history, with the championship portion of the schedule still ahead. The streak is now three victories behind the school record for consecutive wins during the regular season. 
The Irish return to action in Chicago, Ill., breaking from their Big East schedule to play DePaul on Thursday. 
Sports Writer Peter Frasso contributed to this report. 
page 23 

ROWING 
Irish win 4 of 6 at Indiana Cup 
Wednesday, April 18, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS 

Tennis 
continued from page 28 
gles players ranked national­ly, lead the singles players with 19 wins apiece. 
Meanwhile, at No. 4 singles, freshman Caylan Leslie didn't lose a game as she defeated Muer. It was Leslie's second 6-0, 6-0 match of the season. 
At No. 2 singles, Varnum beat Rauh 6-1, 6-3 to pick up her 18th singles win of the season. And in No. 5 singles, Green won 6-3, 6-3. 
The closest Wisconsin came to winning a match was in No. 6 singles, where the Badger's Guy stretched Guy to a first set tiebreaker before falling 7-6 (7-4), 6-3. 
"We played well," Louderback said. "We've got quite a bit of confidence because we've played in a lot of close matches." 
Notre Dame travels to Miami this weekend for the Big East Tournament. 
Louderback expects the Hurricanes to pose the biggest threat to the Irish. 
"I think there's a good chance it'll come down to us and Miami in the finals," he said. 'Tm sure we'll have a battle." 
The top-seeded Irish have a first round bye in the six­team tournament. Notre Dame will play the Virginia Tech-Syracuse winner Saturday morning. 
By JOHN BACSIK Sports Writer 
The magic number is down 
to three for the women's row­
ing team as they continue their 
quest to qualify for the NCAA 
tournament in May. 
In their sixth meet of the spring, the team took four of six races at this weekend's Indiana Cup on Lake Lemon. 
After achieving the first national ranking in the history of the varsity program three weeks ago, the young Irish squad continued to impress against Tennessee, Indiana, and Purdue this weekend. 
"We prepared the same for thL'i race as we have all season. expecting the best from each team," said coxswain Claire Bula. "We raced Tennessee before, but we didn't know what to expect this time." 
Bula is the only senior in the varsity eight boat. Young talent has been the key for the Irish this spring as they have two freshmen and four sophomores in the first boat alone. 
"We're much smaller than some of the teams we've com­peted against." said freshman Jayme Szefc. "We have great 
Lhe Keo-u_gh-I:1:1stit-..ite for Irish St-u._dies 
Fall 2001 
chemistry within the top eight." 
The squad's depth has also helped the recent jump in the rankings. The second varsity squad bested Tennessee by three-seconds in Bloomington. The first and second novice eights also took first in their races, while the varsity and second fours both took second. 
"Overall we had a good day of racing, " head coach Martin Stone said. "This was the best race technically for the varsity eight all season." 
The Irish will have their work cut out for them in the weeks to come as the next three meets will bring more teams and strong competition. The team heads to Wisconsin this weekend for the Midwest Sprints, followed by a trip to Massachusetts in two weeks for the Big East Challenge. 
"Our goal all along has been to make the NCAA's this year," said Bula. "This team has a good intensity, and we're not going to take anything for granted." 
"Race to race, we are trying to execute things more effec­tively and make our moves at the right time, which I think we did this weekend," said sopho­more Ann Marie Dilhoff. 
IRST 101:01  Beginning Irish I  MVVF 9:35-10:25  Peter M:cQuillan  
IRST 101:02  Beginning Irish I  M:WF 10:40-11:30  
IRST 102:01  Beginning Irish II  MVVF 11:4512:35  
IRST 103:01  Intermediate Irish  M:WF 10:40-11:30  Peter M:cQuillan  
IRST 235:01  The Irish American Experience  :MW 11:45-12:35  Jay Dolan  
IRST 326B:Ol  Irish History I  MVVF 9:35-10:25  James Smyth  
IRST 372B:Ol  Writing in Northern Ireland  TH 11 :00-12:15  M:ary Burgess Smyth  
IRST 379:01  Irish Writing. 1600-2000  TH 2:00-3: 15  Kirsten Sundell  
IRST 380:01  Imprisonment in Irish Literature  TH 12:30-1:45  Sean O'Brien  
IRST 381:01  Nineteenth Century Ireland  TH 12:30-1 :45  Breandan M:ac Suibhne  
IRST 455:01  Irish & British Lit. 1790-1815  TH 5:00-6: 15  Seamus Deane  
IRST 470:01  Anglo-Irish Identities 1600-1800  TH 2:00-3:15  Christopher Fox  
CLIR 501:01  Graduate Beginning Irish I  M:WF 9:35-10:25  Peter McQuillan  
CLIR 501:02  Graduate Beginning Irish I  MWF 10:40-11:30  
CLIR 502:01  Graduate Beginning Irish II  M:WF 11:45-12:35  
CLIR 503:01  Graduate Intermediate Irish  MWF 10:40-11:30  Peter McQuillan  

For Information about the IR.J:SH STUDIES PROGRAM please contact Susan Harris (631 -5088) 712 Flanner Hall http://vvwvv.nd.edu/-irishstu/ 
IWant a good job next year? Work for The Observer. I 
--------------------------------------------------------------·--·-·. 
page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 18, 200 I 
TRACK SOCCER 
Belles falter in MIAA meet, now-1-3 in league 
By KATIE McVOY 
Asso<:iate Sports Editor 
The Saint Mary's track team lost a poorly-attended dual meet to the Knights of Calvin College and the Alma Scots Saturday, dropping its MIAA record to 1­3. 
With several team members, including leading middle dis­tance runner Laura Graf, at home for the Easter holidays, the Belles managed to place in eight events, scoring a total of 12 points for the team. 
"[Low turnout] definitely had an effect on how many points we made, but it didn't affect the overall outcome because we still would have gotten beat," senior captain Kara Bergeman said. 
The Knights, who are current­ly first in the MIAA, claimed a 157-5 victory against the Belles. 
The Scots took home a 141-12 victory against the Belles. 
"(Alma) had a lot of people that I hadn't ever seen before so we didn't know where they would stand," Bergeman said. 
ln addition to low turnout, the timing of the meet did not encourage the Belles to run their best. 
The meet took place the day before Easter. and the Belles 

J.ckltl Eaworthy w-w-•• kilt.cl by a dn.a,_. driltet on• w.k 11.-, ll•• high l~Qf.ciuatk.n 
wtia, IMIAd youlkl tu •too1fl'"-6lrorT1d~'"nt? wti•.,..,..,... t..w 1Q, F,.,.nod, 1hrio'I !•t ff'Mnd-1 d.ffil• dr11n• 
Men, women claim dual wins 
seemed to have their minds elsewhere. 
"Individually our minds weren't in it because it was the day before Easter," Bergeman said. "Some of the women were not happy." 
Erika Burket led the team, placing in three events. 
Burket took home a fifth place finish in the high jump. with a jump of 4 feet, 8 inches. 
She added two more fifth place finishes in the 100-meter hurdles with a time of 21.10 and the triple jump with a 31-3 1/4 jump. 
Becky Shepkowski joined Burket with a sixth place, 30-3 jump in the triple jump. Shepkowski also placed in the 100-meter dash with a time of 15.25. 
Senior Kara Bergeman, Jaclyn Thompson and Erin Thayer each finished in the top six in their events to claim the final points for Saint Mary's. 
Bergeman claimed a sixth place finish in the shot put with a throw of 24-11.5. Thompson's 8-6 pole vault was enough to give her a fourth place finish. 
Thayer took home a seventh place in the 1,500, with a time of 5:54 and a sixth place finish in the 800, with a time of 3:00.96. 

posted an inspired 2-1 victory over the Mexican Women's National Team. 
Mexico's speedy for­ward tandem of Maribel Dominguez 

University of the Americas i n Puebla.
'Tonight was a 
Mexico,
tremendous atmosphere 
but she 
for anyone who loves the is slated t 0
game ofsoccer. " 
return to Notre Randy Waldrum Dame 
women's head coach next fall (she has 
o n e 
team."said Irish head coach Randy Waldrum. whosn squad in the exhibition included just eight regular starters from the 2000 fall season. 
"Mexico is a team with tremendous quickness and skill. You can't let up, even for a second. or they will make you pay. So, in that regard, we were very pleased with the way our team battled tonight and with the composure that they showed." 
Several noteworthy play­ers were absent from the Irish lineup, including the senior trio of midfielder Anne Makinen, defender Kelly Lindsey and forward Meotis Erikson (each is pur­suing a career in the Women's United Soccer Association). Freshman for­ward Amy Warner did not play due to her continuing rehabilitation from offsea­son knee surgery. 
Special to the Observer 

A festive crowd of some 2,000 fans was treated to an exciting night of exhibi­tion soccer action Saturday at School Field, as the Notre Dame men held off a feisty Bethel College squad. 4-3. before the Irish women 
HOMES FOR RENT 
2002 -2003 SCHOOL YEAR 

-DOMUS PROPERTIES HAS 2,41 5, 61 1, 89&10 
BEDROOM HOUSES AVAILABLE -STUDENT NEIGHBORSHOODS -CLOSE TO CAMPUS -SECURITY SYSTEMS PROVIDED -WELL MAINTANED HOMES -MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL -WASHER AND DRYERS 
AVAILABLE FOR THE 2002-2003 SCHOOL YEAR LEASING NOW OOMUS PROPERTIES 
CONTACT KRAMER (219) 298-9673 OR (219) 234-2436 OR (219) 674~2571 
!!:======----------------------------~ ____. 
Notre Dame senior Monica Gonzalez-who is a founding member of the three-year-old Mexican National Team-played the entire game for Mexico, mostly at sweeper before moving to the midfield in the lategoing. Gonzalez cur­rently is studying at the 
and Iris Mora kept the 
Notre Dame defense on its 
toes for full 90 minutes but 
the Irish posted the first two goals of the game, with junior midfielder Mia Sarkesian drilling home a shot in the closing sec­onds of the first half year of eligibility remain­ing). 
"Tonight was a tremen­dous atmosphere for anyone who loves the game of soc­cer and Mexico provided a very strong test for our 
before freshman for­ward Amanda Guertin scored early in the sec­ond half. Dominguez­who accounted for seven of Mexico's 11 shots-finally broke through for a score in the 57th minute to set up a tense final 30 minutes of play. 
THE 
CHHISTIAH 
PLRTOHISH of Simone Weil 

April Jg-22. 2001 
at the Uniuersity of Hotre Dame 

Keynote Address Saturday, April 21, 1:30 p.m. Center for Continuing Education, McKenna Hall 
Michael Narcy
National Center for Scientific Research 
The Meanings and Limits of Simone Weil's Platonism 
Michel Narcy, Director of the National Center for Scientific Research where he directs the Center for the History of the Doctrines of the end of Antiquity and the late Middle Ages, will speak in French with a simultaneous translation on "The Meanings and Limits of Simone Weil's Platonism." Professor Narcy has authored Simone Weil : Malheur et beau/e du monde, Le Philosophe ef son double: un commenlaire de l'Euthydeme de Platon, and numerous articles appearing for the most part in the Cahiers Simone Weil, of which he has been the editor from 1988 to 1997. 


NEED CASH? 
NEW DONORS 
EARN $20 TODAY· 
MENTION THIS AD FORA$5.00 
BONUS 
Up to $145.00 a · month in 2-4 hours a week 

SERA CARE PLASMA 
234-6010 515 LINCOLNWAYWEST 
·----------·· --------­
Wednesday, April 18, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Luther, DePauw put end to Saint Mary's perfect record 
"We were determined to win  Cook and Knish claimed that  Jeannie Knish, Cutler and  Knish teamed up with Cook in  
By KATIE McVOY  one match," senior team cap­ victory, and claimed it without  Ryan only one set into their  No.  1 doubles and Jeannie  
Associate Sports Editor  tain  Natalie  Cook  said.  doubt.  games, the match was  called  Knish teamed up with Cutler.  
"[Oberlin's No.1] player got  The team of Beth Krupski  and the Tigers left victorious.  Ryan  and  Jones  fell  8-5  
Perfection can only exist for  hurt, so everyone had to move  and Mecca Bourma fell to the  "We had already lost the  against their DePauw oppo­ 
so long before it disappears.  up a spot and we wanted that  Belles  8-2.  Cutler,  who  match and it was getting real­ nents.  
This  weekend,  the  Saint  win."  teamed up with Jeannie Knish  ly late," Cook said. "So they  Early Friday Saint Mary's  
Mary's tennis team dropped  The Belles racked up five  for  No.  2  doubles,  added  just called the games."  took on Luther College, a team  
its perfect record, but man­ singles wins and three dou­ another victory to her list of  Cutler and Ryan earned two  that finished  with  a  third  
aged  a  solid Saturday victory  bles wins to finish the week­ singles wins  points  for  place next to its name at the  
to end the weekend on a note.  high  end with a strong 8-1 victory over the Yeowomen.  with an 8-4 win over  "As a team, I would say we  the Belles by winning  end of the tournament. Luther claimed an 8-1 victo­ 
The Belles dropped matches  Kaitlin  Cutler,  the  only  Oberlin's  pla.yed well. We went in  their  sus­ ry, shutting down all of the  
against Luther College 8-1 and DePauw University 7-2 Friday before defeating  woman to win all three of her singles matches during the tournament, claimed a solid  No. 2 dou­bles team. Elisa Ryan  trying to be mentally tough and these teams just  p e n d e d matches in one set, 6-0  Belles doubles teams and all but one of the singles players. Cutler won the sole victory  
Oberlin College 8-1 Sunday.  victory  in  No.  4  singles,  and Trisha  seemed to be used to  and  6-1  for the Belles, defeating her  
"As a team I would say we played well," senior team cap­tain Natalie Cook sai.d. "We  defeating Oberlin's Laura Koehn 2-0 (6-2,6-0). Joining Cutler in singles victories  Jones added the last point for  playing at a higher level of competition "  respectively. However, the rest of  opponent 6-2, 6-2. Knish, Cook, Jeannie Knish, Spriggle and Ryan all fell 2-0  
went in trying to be mentally  were  Natalie Cook al No. 2  S  a  i  n  t  the  team  in singles. Knish and Cook and  
tough and  these teams just  singles (6-1, 6-3). Jeannie  Mary's with  Natalie Cook  dropped  Knish and Cutler both fell 8-2  
seemed to be used to playing at a higher level of competi­ Knish at No. 3 singles (6-1, 6­1), and Elisa Ryan at No. 5  a default win at No. 3  team captain  their games. A n n i e  in doubles and Ryan and Jones were shut out with an  
tion. But I saw that we have  singles (6-1. 6-0). Sophomore  doubles.  Knish fell 6­ 8-0 loss.  
the potential to  play at that  Angie Sadner claimed a victo­ 2, 6-4 in No.  "[Luther] seemed to be used  
level eventually."  ry at No. 6 singles by default,  Saturday's defaults weren't  1 singles along with Cook,  to playing tough competition,"  
On  Saturday,  the  Belles  due to the injury of Oberlin's  the only opportunities for  who dropped No. 2 singles 6­ Cook said. ''They knew how to  
were  looking for  a  victory.  No. 1 singles player.  unexpected rest.  Friday night  2, 6-2, Jeannie Knish who  set  up  points  and  carry  
After  being invited  to  the  After her singles match on  three  women ended suspend­ dropped No. 3 singles 6-4 in a  through. We  were  missing  
prestigious  Midwest  Saturday. junior No. 1 singles  ed matches early.  suspended game and fresh­ some of our follow throughs."  
Invitational. one of only 12  player Annie Knish  was  left  The Belles faced off against  man Kris Spriggle who fell in  The  Belles  still  own  an  
teams, they left Friday's play  still looking for a victory.  the Tigers of DePauw and six  No. 4 singles 6-1, 6-0.  impressive 11-2 record.  
without wins. The Yeowomen  She had yet to win a match,  games into the match it was  The doubles teams did not  They will face off against the  
of Oberlin College offered  a  so when it came time for she  clear that the Tigers would  fare any better.  Comets  of Olivet  today  at  
last opportunity for  a  win  and Cook to team up for No. 1  claim a solid victory.  Both  Knish teams  fell  to  home  9utside  of  Angela  
Sunday.  doubles, the time had come.  With  night  falling  and  their opponents 6-8, Annie  Athletic facility at 3 p.m.  

FISHER HALL PROUDLY PRESENTS 

SATURDAY, APRIL 21 
4:00 P.M. SAINT MARV'S LAKE 
Spo=Ni l1y: 
111&~-· 
COCA COLA• 

Notre Dlffll!!' Ahmn Alsodadon* M•al's Deli ( 2 loc:1:tiona) AP hMif!Tcam, Jnc. 
~1•J~I1i/;ri 
FAST CHIC'AOO PIZZA-rN 
~W:&!ifli\W.u!!III.J ,NMIIWWWU HAWFLbltHWl&W:ZJ.IIA,. 

Love Sports? Write for the Observer. Call 1-4543 (ND), or 284-5418 (SMC) 
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 18, 200 l 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
MEN'S LACROSSE 
No. 4 Notre Dame defeats ArIDy 
continue to trade goals in was upset because the refer­ByJOE LICANDRO the second quarter until the ees called numerous penal­Sports Writer very last two minutes before ties against both Army and half-time, as the Irish added Notre Dame. Coach Corrigan two critical goals by Jon was upset with the officiat• 
Led by a career-high four 
Harvey and Devin Ryan to ing because he felt it pre­
goals from junior Devin 
take a 9-7 lead. After tak­vented the Irish from estab­
Ryan and another strong 
ing a three goal lead in the lishing any kind of rhythm. offensive performance from third quarter. Army "The referees blew the 
senior captain Tom Glatzel, 
refused to quit and tied whistle too many times,"the Notre Dame men's 
the score once more at 13. Corrigan said. "They made 
lacrosse team defeated 
David Ulrich would finally an equal amount of calls on 
Army 17-13 in a hard­
put the Irish on top for good Army and us. but this pre­fought, physical match-up. with a little over five min­vented us from finding our This victory improved the utes remaining with a quick offensive rhythm and gain•Irish's record to 9 and 1 on strike past the Army goal­ing control of the game."the season. tender to give the Irish a 14 With only three games
After cruising to three 
to 13 lead. David's twin remaining, the Irish look tostraight victories over lesser 
brother Todd would add be in good shape heading
opponents, the Irish were another goal less than a into the NCAA tournament. 
put to the test 

minute Wednesday's home game at by the quickness 
'Tm really proud ofour 1a t e r 4:00 p.m. against rival 
and relentless a n d Butler will be critical in 

pressure of guys for hanging in there. 
Harvey determining the winner ofArmy. The 
They showed a lot of wou Id the Great Western Lacrosse 
game was a see­cap off League.

heart out there." 
saw battle until 

t h e The Irish currently sit atop 
the Irish scored 

scoring the division with a 3-0 con­
four unan­Kevin Corrigan 
w i t h ference record, but their
swered goals in head coach t W 0 next two opponents. Butler

the fourth quar­

goals in and Fairfield, sit only one ter. t h e game behind the Irish in the
"Army came after us. They 
final two minutes to give the standings.
have always been an 
Irish a 17-13 victory. If the Irish can build uponaggressive team," said Irish While this was Notre their current four game win­head coach Kevin Corrigan. Dame's best offensive output ning streak and win their
'Tm really proud of our 
of the season, many of the remaining two conl'erence guys for hanging in there. Irish players realized this games, they will clinch anThey showed a lot of heart was not their best overall automatic bid to the NCAA out there." game of the season, but they tournament. Coach Kevin 
At first. it looked as if the 
were pleased with their Corrigan knows the Irish 
Irish were going to coast to effort and determination. must be ready for Butler in
another easy victory as 
"This was not our best order to continue the suc­
Glatzel scored three straight game of the season, but we cess of the Irish this season. 
quick goals including an off­played hard and didn't "Butler has played us to 1­
balanced twisting score to 
quit," Ryan said. "We need goal games the last two give the Irish a 3-1 lead. to keep playing hard to rest years," he said. "We have to Army would not go away of the season especially be prepared and really con­as they knotted the score 4­
against Butler on centrate on the next game.
4 at the end of the first 
Wednesday." We must play better againstquarter. The teams would The fluidity of the game Butler than we did today." 
<iii£+> 
'::)fSgp C>..JLI! :;;:>LITI.::J..IC>JBI ::iu 'S-$ 's::ig">J:::::>!::J mcI 1 1 -g '61 I!..Icly S"M:3:CI'MCT~ HO~:=> ..._I__,:I-IOI.N: =6£6T 
aoo~ 
Irish claim win against top IO opponent 
against Yale three days later.

By ANTHONY BISHOP Without much time to prepare
Sports Wric~r 
and focus on Yale, the team 
seemed lost at first as Yale 

The Irish split two games went up quickly, with the first with a pair of top 10 teams four points of the match. this week and picked up their A score by junior Tina first victory ever against a top Fedarcyk woke up the Irish 10 opponent when they and opened up a nine goal defeated No. 7 Yale 9·6. scoring spree. 
The Irish opened the week• She was followed by fresh­end with a 16-4 loss to No. 4 man Kassen Delano and Duke. O'Shaughnessy as Notre Dame 
Duke opened up the game went into halftime once again with a two goal lead but down by only one goal. sophomore Danielle Shearer Notre Dame scored six more put the Irish on the board. unanswered goals when they 
Shearer answered two more took the field in the second 
Blue Devils goals to make the half. score 4-2 in favor of the Blue This was sparked by the 
Devils. play of Moser. who, within four 
Duke scored one more goal and a half minutes, scored a before the Irish answered hat trick. O'Shaughnessy then with goals from both junior scored what would be the captain Alissa Moser and game-winning goal with 20 senior captain Lael minutes left in the game. 0'Shaughnessy. The scoring barrage ended 
When the teams headed to with goals from Shearer and the lockerrooms for halftime, senior Maura Doyle. Notre Dame trailed the Duke White had eight saves to Blue Devils by one point at 5-only six goals against her in 
4. this game as she anchored the Duke proved to be too much defense. 
for the squad as they scored This weekend moved the 11 points in the second half to Irish to 8-3 as well as into finish off the Irish, who failed playoff contention. 
to score again. Yale is the second ranked 
Sophomore goaltender Jen team that Notre Dame has White ended the game with defeated this season. seven saves for the Irish With a win this weekend at defense before being replaced home against Georgetown, the by senior Tara Durkin for the Irish would match the most 
final eight minutes of the wins in the school's history game. (1999 at 9-6). 
After the hard loss to Duke. The Irish face Hoyas Sunday the Irish seemed to be both­at 1 p.m. in Moose Krause sta­ered as they began play dium. 

..,/./ ·:-_ 

ONLY YOU CAN rlEVENT FOREST FIRES. 
www.smokeybear.vom 
Sully -the real "Mam" of the house. Happy 22nd 

NO NEED -OOT ACTING -FINE, BYE 




Wednesday, April 18, 2001 
The Observer . TODAY page 27 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
INSPIREI> BY JORDAN. ANOTHER FORMER PLAYER MAKEs A COMEBACK ••• 
STEP ASIDE, BOYS. LET ME SHOW 
YOU HOW IT WAS DONE IN MY DAY. 
WHY. I USED TO BE THE BEST 
LINEMAN IN THE ENTIRE STATE! 
WHO WANTS TO TAICE ME ON? 
Fox TROT 

~ 
BETT'f Tl-IE CHotolAT£ UNNY, I'D UICE YOU MEET R1CK"f THE 
OCOL.A.TE R.A.S81T. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 28 "The Great Caruso"
1 Controlling actress, 1951
element 30 Mercyhurst
9 Aqua _ (nitric College site 
acid) 31 60's• 70's sports 
15 In first place dynasty16 Situate 33 Mountain­17 Succeeded 
making process, 18 Country with a in geology bird in its flag 
35 Clobbered 19 Brit's oath 37 Aaron Burr's 20 Little sound birthplace 
22 Big sound 38 Divinity 
23 "Alain und • 39 Bark (1940 Geo;:g­40 Architect MiesKaiser play) 
van der 25 Cable inits. 
41 Bawls (out) 

since 1988 43 Actress
26 Word with life or Kaminska et al. 
time 47 Cleared
27 Bargain• hunter's goal 48 Coll. divisions 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE S I A M M A S O C H I S T S 
A R I A A R T N O U V E A U LORD R-:-+;=-.f-::;.+.;,;-TS 
END ~;,:.a.;.:.+,;. S S C R 
111111-~;.;....;;;;..i

A C C D T H O •*.:-f-:::+:-I 
B I R C 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

49 Rotter's opposite 50 Three-time Hart Trophy winner 51 Handel masterwork 54 Contest 55 MTV figure 57 Very quickly 
59 It gets left behind 60 Put away 61 Put away 62 Unvaried, in a way 
OQWN 1 Rough 2 "Lord Jim" actor, 
1965 
3 Rare-earth oxide 4 Na Na 5 Snicker 6 Suffix akin to Puzzle by Rich Noma 
-ese 21 Word of 7 It may be opposition checked, in two 
24 Like pedestrians 

senses 
on winter 8 Mil. assignment streets, maybe 9 Excellent poker 26 Finery hand 
28 Obviously tired 10 Binge 
29 Hierarchies 

11 Rugged 32 Cuban
coastline feature 
Revolution name 

12 Not so hard 34 Mouse catcher 
13 Scribe's aid 14 Lake Victoria 35 Den accessory circumnavigator 36 Follow 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name ------------------------­
Address------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
TOM KEELEY 
OOPS! bID I SAY LINEMAN? I 
MEANT llCKERI YEAH. THAT'S WHAT I MEANT. I UsEI) TO BE THE 8EST 
KICKER IN THE ENTIRE STATE. 
BILL AMEND 
GIVE IT UP, PAIGE. .A. GIRL CAN THE"f AREN'T GOING DREAM, To MULTIPLY. CAN'T SHE? 
I 
A 

38 Needle locales 51 Game ender 42 Court statistic 52 Excited by 44 Great 53 Shortly 45 Hate 
56 Jabber 46 Saturates 
58 Business card 49 Strand abbr. 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
TYLER

THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 


He o.ven':, Fore. c ..o.::i +  
Sunf\~  .Svnt'\~  
Hot  Hot  
He II'~ Fore. co.5-t  

I wish I was dead. 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Emma Thompson, Roy Clark, Claudia Cardinale, Peter Billingsley, Elizabeth Mont­
gomery 
Happy Birthday: Play it smart and keep busy this year. If you have too mud, time to think, you 
will find fault with yourself and those around you. This is the time to put yourself on the line and push for all the things that you believe in. You are your own master so stand up for your rights and focus on your goals. You will attract both business and emotional partners if you stand by your convictions. Your numbers: 3, 8, 15, 20, 33, 39 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You must stand your ground and make whatever dianges are necessary if you wish to.have a successful partnership. Terms must be laid out clearly as agreed upon, or the union must be dissolved. 00 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You need to spend some time with the children in your life. Become involved in creative endeavors that will bring you in contact with those who have the same interests. 00000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Put some time aside to organize vour financial situation and look over your personal papers. Leave well enough alone where legal proceedings are concerned. 000 
CANCER Oune 21-July 22): Don't let your mood swings take over, or you may find your­self spending time alone. Offer to help someone who is not capable of handling it alone. Avoid eating foods that don't agree with you. 00 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your rage will mount if your lover has embarrassed you. Extravagance will be your downfall if you aren't 
EUGENIA LAST 

careful. Put your energy into improving your own attitude. It's time to make a diange. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't fool yourself. Diets and getting in shape take work. Don't look for quick ways to make changes or money. Use your cre­ative, detail-oriented mind to work slowly toward your objec­tives. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): 
Empty promises will leave you feeling cold. Uncertainties con­cerning your future will be upset­ting. Dispense with all the tliings and people that are no longer to your advantage. 00 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Self-deception will be the main issue today. Take time to ~valu­ate as you may be judging your sit­uation wrongly. One-sided roman­tic infatuations are likely to occur. Don't lead anyone on. 0000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 
Remember to look out for those less fortunate. You may find your­self in the middle of an argument. Don't hesitate to negotiate for someone you care about. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
You will be sentimental about 
family. Your persuasive ways will 
get you into more trouble than 
you bargained for. Don't make 
others feel guilty because of their 
lack of time. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Stay in the background. You make 
a much better observer. You can 
be more effective if you collect all 
the information and summarize 
the important facts when they are 
most needed. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
Your greatest rewards will come 
from helping those less fortunate. 
New relationships will develop 
through your selfless actions. Get 
involved in fund-raising. 0000 


900 and counting 
Coach Liz Miller won her 900th career game as the Irish won their ninth-straight doubleheader and remained undefeated in the Big East. 
PORTS 
page 22 
O
THE 

page 28 BSERVER Wednesday, April 18, 200 I 
BASEBALL 
Notre Dame ascends to No. 2 ranking 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Sporn W ri1cr 
Climbing to the No. 2 spot in the College Baseball Poll, Notre Dame baseball continued to impress poll voters during Easter Break, as two double­headers catapulted the team 
atop national rankings. 
The four conference wins ­combined with two victories earlier in the week -also earned merit from the USA Today/ESPN Coaches' Poll. which propped the Irish up to fifth place. The Irish currently hold a 31-5-1 record, the high­est winning percentage in the nation. 
During the doubleheader Thursday against Georgetown, Notre Dame scored the most runs ever for a Big East series, plating 32 in victories of 15-4 and 17-10 Hoyas. Five differ­ent Notre Dame batters collect­ed four or more hits. They were lead by senior shortstop Alec Porzel, who was four for eight with nine RBIs and five runs scored. Porzel hit for the cycle on the day, getting a sin­gle, double, triple, and home run. 
'Tm feeling comfortable at the plate again," said Porzel. "It makes it much easier to hit when everyone else on the team is doing so well. Baseball is all about momentum, so when the other guys on the team are swinging the bat well, you can't help but follow." 
This performance, combined with a three for seven two-RBI showing Saturday against West 
Virginia, earned Porzel Big East player of the week hon­ors. 
Porzel's hitting of late has been an important key to Notre Oame's success. 
The senior co-captain batted .409 and paced the Irish in RBIs over these last six games for which he earned the player of tho week award. 
On Saturday, the pitching of seniors Aaron Heilman and Danny Tamayo, arguably the best one-two combination in baseball. shut down the West Virginia Mountaineers 4-1 and 8-1. 
Heilman, sixth in the nation in ERA at 1.32, and Tamayo, not far behind at 12th with a 
1.65 ERA, each contributed a complete game victory allowing only one earned run in the 16 combined innings. Their domi­nant pitching efforts lowered the team ERA to 2.61, now the lowest in the nation. 
"We got phenomenal perfor­mances from both of those guys," said coach Paul Mainieri. "I think you'd have to go a long way to find two bet­ter pitchers on one team than we have in Heilman and Tamayo. They are both talent­ed and have great ability, but they also both pitch in the clutch very well. They make their biggest pitches when they need them the most. If you can do that you're going to win a lot of games." 
In the first game Saturday, the Irish actually found them­selves down 1-0 to a talented 
see BASEBALL/page 21 

WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish blast Badgers for best record since 1985 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Associate Spom Writer 
They expected to win. Just not by this much. 
Monday afternoon, the women's ten­nis team didn't lose a set as they demolished Wisconsin 7-0. With the win, the Irish extended their record to 21-4 ­their best regular season record since 1985. 
Even Irish coach 
Jay Louderback was Dasso surprised at the margin of victory. 
"[Wisconsin isl too good for that to happen," he said. "They haven't had a real great year, but they're very tal­ented, and that makes them very dan­gerous." 
With only four losses, the No. 7 Irish enter this weekend's Big East tourna­ment with their best start in Louderback's 12-year tenure, some­thing the Irish coach attributes to an experienced team. Of the top six play­ers, five are juniors and seniors who have recorded a combined 46-14 record over two years. 
"It's been a fun year," Louderback said. "They've all been around long enough, and they all work very hard and are very focused." 
It's that focus and concentration that helped the No. 3 doubles team of Lindsey Green and Nina Vaughan rally back from a five game deficit. The played especially well," commented tandem trailed Wisconsin's Linde Louderback. Mues and Vanessa Rauh 1-6, but pro­Meanwhile, in the No. 2 doubles ceeded to win seven match, Katie Cuhha straight games to and Kimberly Guy 
clinch an 8-6 victory. "Those were probably the eked out a narrow 8-6 
"Those were proba­best seven games that victory over Teresa bly the best seven Gonzaga and Lara
they've place all year." 
games that they've Vojnov. played all year," Dasso, the No. 5 sin­Louderback said. Jay Louderback gles player in the 
While Green and nation. won her 19th
head coach 
Vaughan were making match of the season their run in No. 3 dou-at No. 1 doubles. She bles, tho No. 5 duo in beat Gabler 6-3, 6-2. the nation, Michelle Vaughan beat Dasso and Becky Varnum, destroyed Dougherty at No. 3 singles, 6-1, 6-2, to Wisconsin's Katie Dougherty and April extend her season record to 19-3. Gabler, 8-2. Dasso and Vaughan, the only Irish sin­
"I thought No. 1 and No. 3 doubles see TENNIS/page 23 
Softball Softball
Men's Lacrosse 

vs. Olivet at DePaul
SPORTS 
vs. Butler 

Today, 3 p.m. Thursday, 4:30 p.m. 
Today, 4 p.m. 
ATA 
Tennis 

Baseball 
Big East Championships 
vs. Olivet

GLANCE 
vs. Central Michigan 
Fri.-Sun.
Today, 3 p.m. 

Thursday, 5:05 p.m. 
All Day 








