Filming Naturally Native
SCAlTERED SHOWERS 

Friday 
Saint Mary's will show "Naturally Native," an acclaimed film portraying 
(~ HIGH 64° 
NOVEMBER 2,
a group of Native American sisters starting a business, tonight at 7 p.m. 
LOW 43° 
scene . pages 16-17 
2001 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 43 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

Neutralizing the orange 
Students create new shirt, urge fans to wear green 
By JASON McFARLEY News Editor 
Enthusiasm of the home 
crowds at Notre Dame away 
football games was never easy 
for Robert Pazornik to swallow. 
Memorial Stadium fans left an 
especially bitter taste. 
"I've been to a lot of the away 
games and seen what the other 
fans can do, but Nebraska had 
the most impact for me." 
Pazornik, a Notre Dame senior, 
said about his experience at the 
University of Nebraska stadium. 
"We were overwhelmed by red, 
not just the students, it was 
everybody." 
Pazornik and friends took 
notes. 
Now, nearly two months after their Sept. 8 lesson in Lincoln, the students have begun the "Sea of Green" campaign, an effort they hope will make Notre Dame Stadium as tough a place to play as any Irish opponent's venue. 
The campaign, started Monday by a loosely formed group of about a dozen seniors, encourages Notre Dame fans to wear kelly green -a shamrock­toned hue -T-shirts to the Irish home game versus Tennessee Saturday. 

The hastily organized effort in less than four day's time has found support from student gov­ernment leaders and University officials, including athletic department and bookstore rep­resentatives. Football players and coaches also have backed rely on the strategy, Pazornik word out about, well, a "red­the initiative. Seeing Green said. out." Cornhuskers fans know to 
At the heart of the "Sea of The logic behind the green "When you want to create a don red for games, said Green" campaign, according to campaign was simple. hostile environment, the first Anderson, the school's sports organizers, is the potential to "\Vhen everyone in the crowd thing you think of is Lincoln, information director. enliven an Irish team that has is wearing the same color, they Neb. Then you think of Rocky "We typically don't have to struggled to a 3-4 start this sea­feel unified," Pazornik said, "and Top, Tenn.," he said about stadi-remind them to wear it," she son and to reverse the streak of that makes them louder." urns of perennial Irish foes·. said. "We have always worn red marquee match-ups that have Which, in turn, makes for an Chris Anderson takes that as a ended in Notre Dame -and its intimidating experience on the compliment. see GREEN/page 6 

Ushers allow 
'Dump 


Davie' shirt 
ByV. VAN BUREN GILES 
News Writer 
Notre Dame football fan Jef 
Ayres expresses his disgust with 
the Notre Dame football season 
through his clothing. 
His favorite is a white T-shirt 
with the slogan, ''Dump Davie" 
on the front, and on the back, 
"Top 10 reasons why we should 
dump Davie." 
"I wear this shirt because I 
feel very strongly about the 
message that it sends," said 
Ayres. 
Ayres was enjoying the Notre Dame versus USC football game when a stadium usher confront­ed him, demanding he either remove the shirt or turn it inside out. Ayres resisted the usher's wishes stating that it infringed on his Constitutional rights. 
"There is nothing on the back of my ticket that says I cannot wear the shirt I want to. I was angry as the usher singled me out while others close by were wearing the same shirt but were left alone," said Ayres. 
Ayres was just one of several fans who were asked to either turn the shirt inside out or take it off at recent football games. The shirt, as well as the one stating. 'Drinking because we suck' can be bought outside the stadium, usually from unregis­tered salespeople walking around with backpacks. Students at the University creat­
see SHIRTS/page 4 

Professors discuss economic impact of attacks 
By JUSTIN KRIVICKAS 

News Writer 
Four professors addressed the economic issues stemming from the World Trade Center attack at the Hesburgh Center Thursday night. 
The lecture, entitled "The Economic Causes and Consequences of the September 11th Attacks," was the fourth in a series of discus­sion seminars sponsored by the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 
Assistant professor Eduardo Zambrano was the first speak­er of the evening and lectured on terrorist trends and prac­tices. 
"Economic variables matter greatly in the probability of political dissent," said Zambrano. He stated that these terrorists believe that through violence they can show their power. "One per­son's freedom fighter is anoth• 

er person's terrorist," said Zambrano. 
He explained that these groups receive funding from exhortation of primary com­modity exports, sympathizers living in developed countries, and subventions from hostile countries. 
Professor Kwan Kim spoke next and described how terror­ist organizations emerge. "Extreme poverty is the breed­ing ground for anti-establish­ment revolts," he said. "Global 
terrorism is a self perpetuating phenomenon." 
Kim said that terrorist orga­nizations emerge within impoverished nations where poverty causes a large segment of the population to feel pow­erless. Tension builds within the population and is directed toward those whom they view as the cause for their economic conditions: America and devel­oped nations. With little to live for, explained Kim, young men will join fanatical groups. 
Drawing on the importance of the U.S. economy to the rest of the world, Kim showed how the U.S. is seen as the leading cause of poverty. By hindering the U.S. economy, terrorists merely worsen the Global economy and further hinder the progress of the developing nations in which they are fight­ing for, causing more civil unrest to emerge. "The vicious cycle can be broken," said 
see ECONOMY/page 4 




• Friday, November 2, 2001 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Tailgating not a dying art form 
Last weekend was a whole new experience for me. I spent the weekend in Boston. I went to a party at Harvard, saw Massachusetts Bay and saw New England trees in the fall. 
But there was something even more amazing 

that happened on Saturday as I drove to the Boston College game. I turned onto campus. headed to the seven-story parking garage less than 200 yards away from the football stadium. 
Now, you're not going to believe this part. There was tailgating going on right outside the stadium. But that's not all. I turned into the parking garage only to be greeted with seven sto­ries of tailgating. There were alumni, students, fans of all kinds standing around 

in the college-sponsored parking garage drink­ing, cooking brats and smoking cigars. 
Here comes the most unbelievable part. There were no police asking the tailgaters for drivers licenses and student ID's, looking at the ID's and asking even those who were 21 to stop tailgating. 
It's incredible. They still allow tailgating on college campuses. I know, I know. You've spent the last three home football games wondering if you could get away with tailgating in the soc­cer fields and you were all as convinced as I was that tailgating was a pying art form. Apparently it's not. And what's more, even with the majority of those attending the game tailgating before the game, no great disaster happened. No one had a serious accident that involved falling down the steps in the stands, no one tried to steal a band member's clarinet and not one Irish fan tailgating before the game tried to take over Bob Davie's coaching position. 
Yet another inconceivable event. 
Now, Boston College may not have the per­fect tailgating system. It is true that you can only tailgate a certain number of hours before 
.. the game, cars aren't allowed anywhere but the parking garage, and there is no tailgating after the game. But at least the campus acknowledges that students and alumni enjoy tailgating before football games. And the col• lege lets them. Now, tailgating on the Notre Dame campus may not carry with it the tradition of Knute Rockne or the Four Horsemen, but you can be sure it has its own tradition. Tailgating and col­lege football go together like green eggs and ham. You can ask students to be responsible when drinking. You can ask alumni to clean up after themselves. Trying to curb underage drinking is one thing, but trying to completely stop stu­dents from tailgating is ridiculous. You can't ask people to stop taking part in one of the best parts of a football weekend, especially this sea­son. If you take away tailgating, what's left? Just going to the game? Last weekend renewed my faith in the fine art of tailgating and the fact that it does hap­pen. So this weekend as you all head to the football game, remember, there is a God and he still allows tailgating, even at a Catholic col­lege. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS/ CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize chat we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-454 l so we can correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacacion periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
""'}€~{ 
,, 
•.·.···•···:;;::;-:· ·. -')\i:·~t ·.. . 

Katie McVoy 
Associate Sports Editor 

THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 
Student body destroys goal post Thursday, November 1, 1973 After Notre Dame's 23-14 victory over USC, a jubilant student body uprooted and dismantled the goal post at the north end of the stadium and delivered it to the steps of the Administration Building. They were greeted by University president Father Theodore Hesburgh while they were in the process of cutting the crossbar in half. 
BEYOND CAMPUS 

Renewal of Texas A&M Bonfire hangs in stalemate 
COLLEGE STATION, Texas 
Negotiations with the unnamed New York-based safety consultant with which Texas A&M University Bonfire 2002 planners hope to con­tract are entering a third week of stalemate. 
In a process that planning officials said is already pressed for time, the delay has resulted in a domino effect on the timeline of planning for Bonfire 2002. Design firm CBM Engineers of Houston was to have met with a safety firm over the past months to review the-14 possible designs and narrow the options down to three of the safest designs by Nov. 1. 
Bryan Cole, the Bonfire 2002 Steering Committee facilitator, said he fears the implications of the 
HILLSDALE COLLEGE 
Arnn considers suing government 
HILLSDALE, Mich. 
A new government program has prompted Hillsdale College president Larry Arnn to consider filing a law­suit against the federal government. The new 529 College Savings Plan allows parents or grandparents to save for their child or grandchild's college educa­tion tax-free. But the private money in the government plan can only be used toward schools that meet Title IX requirements and detailed reporting to the federal government. Hillsdale College has refused to comply with the government regulations since government aid was first offered in 1962, considering the government to be intruding on its independence. Arnn believes the new program extends the intrusion Hillsdale College has avoided by restricting private money. "They ought not be conditioning the reception of private money." Arnn said. While Arnn believes the government pro­gram is wrong and harmful, there are reasons to avoid the lawsuit. "Lawsuits cost money," Arnn said. "There's an issue here I'm clear about. The course of action and the extent of damage I'm less clear about." 
LOCAL WEATHER 
S Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather~ forecast for daytime conditions and hi 
' ' 
/ 

Saturd "y'~i~fx Sunda~ 


Monda~ 
\
Tuesd~y 
/

WedE!!dJt, 
q_~,~9-GQ .t!f 
Showers T-Slorms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sumy V,a Assoallled P,.:u Graphics/lie/ 
h tern ratures 
UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH 
Scientists keep heart alive for 12 hours 
PITTSBURGJ I 
The hardest part of transplant surgery used to be keeping the donor organ alive long enough to get it to the recipient. But a recent experiment by scientists at University of Pittsburgh Medical Center Presbyterian may change that. In early October scientists at Presbyterian kept a human heart pumping outside the body and oxygenating blood for 12 hours. "The tech­nology has been in development for six years now," said UPMC spokeswoman Michelle Baum. "But this is the second time the technology has ever been used with a human organ, and the first time with a human heart." The new technology is part of a new system called the Portable Organ Preservation System devel­oped by TransMedics. The box-shaped system weighs about 70 pounds, explained Baum, and could fit in an ambulance or a private jet. A smaller version, weighing approximately 55 pounds, can fit on the seat of a com­mercial airliner. TransMedics is studying the kidney version of POPS and plans to submit it for approval to the Food and Drug Administration later this year. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Friday, Nov. 2. Lines separate high temperature zones for the day 
FRONTS:
................. 
0 2001 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STAnONARY 
Four arrested as police raid student party 
Monday, November 2, 1986 Three law enforcement agencies raided a Halloween party late Friday, arresting four students and issuing citations to 36 others. The raid brought the number of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students arrested or issued citations on alcohol related charges to more than 200 for the year. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 


"The longer this draws out, of course, the greater the potential for Bonfire not to happen in 2002," Cole said last week. "We're starting to push it if they sign on later than this week. We're not going to compro­mise safety -we're not going to push it to get it done. If that means 2003, that means 2003, and if that means not at all, then not at all." 
A final design for Bonfire was to have been chosen Dec. 15 after the student body had time to review the three finalist designs. Now, Cole. said, these plans are in jeopardy. 
A&M President Dr. Ray Bowen was to consider the committee's recom­mended Bonfire design and decide in January if Bonfire 2002 would become a reality. If it takes longer to have a final design ready to present to Bowen, Cole said, then Bowen's decision -and all the steps to implement the planning for Bonfire that would come after it -would be delayed. 
Prw,ur,: 
® (0 D D D D D D 
High Low Shower• Rain T~atortn4 Flurne• Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via Assoaated Pt9ss 
Atlanta 76 57 Las Vegas 78 55 Portland 60 45 Baltimore 75 55 Memphis 74 54 Sacramento 72 44 Boston 70 57 Milwaukee 61 41 St. Louis 70 46 Chicago 63 43 New York 73 56 Tampa 86 71 Houston 82 63 Philadelphia 76 59 Washington DC 75 58 

~ ~ 
Pt. Cloudy Cloody 

page 3

Friday, November 2, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
NEWS BRIEFS 
Bands to hold Leukemia benefit: 
Three Notre Dame bands will play a benefit concert for the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society tonight at Hench warmer's Sports Lounge in South Bend. No Redeeming Qualities. Skammunists and Lester will perform at the tavern. The $3 cover charge will be donated to the charity. No Redeeming Qualities will begin the concert at 10:30 
p.m. followed by Skammunists at 11 :30 p.m. and Lester at 12:30 a.m. Anyone who wishes to attended the concert must be 21 years old with a valid ID. 
Boeing vice chair to deliver lecture: Harry 
C. Stonecipher, vice chair­man of The Boeing Company, will deliver a lec­ture titled "Overcoming Your Advantages" at 2:45 p.m. Friday (Nov. 2) in room 141 of DeBartolo Hall The lec­ture is being sponsored by the Society for Women Engineers and Student International Business Council. 

Author to lead retreat on beatitutdes 
Special to the Observer 
Jim Forest, secretary of the Orthodox Peace Fellowship, will lead a weekend retreat, "Christianity From the Bottom Up: Climbing the Ladder of the Beatitudes," Nov. 9-11 in the Moreau Seminary. 

Forest joined Dorothy Day's Catholic \iVorker community in New York City in 1961 after being discharged from the Navy on grounds of conscientious objection. He edited the commu­nity's newspaper, The Catholic Worker, and worked as a reporter for Religious News Service and for the daily Staten Island Advance. An outspoken opponent of the war in Vietnam, he was imprisoned from 1969­70 for his involvement with the Milwaukee Fourteen, a group of Catholic priests and lay people who burned draft records. He became publications director for the Fellowship of Reconciliation, an international peacemaking organization, in 1973, and four years later moved to Alkmaar, Holland, to serve as the organi­zation's general secretary for the next 12 years. During this peri­od, he traveled widely in the for­mer Soviet Union, became deeply interested in Russian reli­gious life, and became Orthodox. 
Forest is the author of numer­ous books, including "Praying with Icons"; "The Ladder of the Beatitudes"; "Living With \-Visdom: A Biography of Thomas Merton"; "Love is the Measure: a Biography of Dorothy Day"; "Religion in the New Russia"; "Pilgrim to the Russian Church"; "Making Friends of Enemies"; "The \-Vhale's Tale"; "The Tale of the Turnip"; and "Four Days in February." He also edited, with Tom Cornell and Robert Ellsberg, "A Penny a Copy: Readings from The Catholic Worker.' 
Forest has taught at the New York Theological Seminary, the College of New Rochelle, the University of Dayton and Notre Dame's Institute for Ecumenical Studies at Tantur. He received the Peacemaker Award from Notre Dame's Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies in 1989. 
The suggested fee for retreat participants is $25 or $60 with lodging. Further information or reservations may be obtained from Rev. Michael J. Baxter, C.S.C. 

NOW LEASING 
FOR THE 
2002-2003 SCHOOL YEAR 

DOMUS PROPERTIES HAS 

-2, 4, 5, 6I 71 8/ 9I & 1Q 
BEDROOM HOUSES -STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS -CLOSE TO CAMPUS -SECURITY SYSTEMS -WELL MAINTAINED HOMES -MANITENANCE STAFF ON CALL -WASHER AND DRYERS 
CONTACT KRAMER (219) 298-9673 OR (219) 234-2436 OR (219) 674-2471 







c.tlc1'eir,t 
A p A R T OM E N T' s 
Clew/1111d and lrmnrnod Roads/1801 I Clew/am/ Road/So111J, Bend Jndim111 -166371(l/9)271-8110 
New Castle Point Select Units Available for Next Semester 
*Within minutes of campus* 
• 
Renovated, spacious one and two bedroom apartments, some with lofts and dens 

• 
Inciudes membership in the new Castle Point Racquet Club and Fitness Center 


CULTURALLY AWARE 


Earn ahighly regarded hlima University Master of Professional Aa:ountancy degree 
Take your next step in becoming aCPA 
• Become one of our high~ sought graduates 
• Prestigious Indiana University degree on the IUPUI campus 
• All majors accepted 
• Convenient times; part-time or ful~time; 12-24 month completion 
• Specialize in financial reporting, taxation, auditing, information systems, management consulting 
• Internationally recognized faculty 
For more information contact: 
(317) 278-3885 mpabus@iupui.edu http://bus.iupui.edu 

KEllEY 

~~;;re,11
School of Business 
Indianapolis IUPUI 



page 4 The Observer . NEWS Friday, November 2, 2001 
Northwest jet diverted, JFK terminal evacuated 
Associated Press 

ROMULUS, Mich. 
Fighter jets escorted a Northwest Airlines jetliner with 78 people aboard to Detroit Metropolitan Airport on Thursday because a note was found mentioning a bomb. No bomb was found. 
Flight 191 from Beagan Washington National Airport to Minneapolis was diverted to Detroit Metro and landed at 
10:12 a.m., Northwest said in a statement. 
Passengers were taken off the plane, an Airbus A320, airline spokeswoman Mary Beth Schubert said. The plane had 73 passengers and a crew of five. 
A passenger "was thumbing through the magazine pouch and reads a note indicating that there was a bomb on the plane," FBI Special Agent Hank Glaspie said. 
The note then was turned over from a flight attendant to the captain, who was directed to land the plane at the nearest airport, Glaspie said. No bomb was found on the aircraft, the FBI said. 
Federal agencies were at the airport conducting an investiga­tion, which included interview­ing passengers and crew mem­bers, he said. 


Shirts 
continued from page I 
ed both shirts. 

University officials have since expressed regret about the incidents, and have said that it's OK to wear them. 
"Students were wrongly con­fronted and accosted by stadi­um ushers regarding the 'Dump Davie' and 'I am drink­ing 'cause we suck shirts,"' and Dennis Moore, director of pub-lie relations and information at Notre Dame. 
Cappy Gagnon, head usher at Notre Dame, has clarified the stadium's policy on what can and cannot be worn. 
Other aviation-related scares this week include: 
. 
Federal security agents ordered the temporary evacua­tion Thursday of part of a ter­minal at John F. Kennedy International Airport after checkpoint screeners failed to properly search travelers, offi­cials said. Hundreds of passen­gers were herded out of the area, including those who had already boarded two planes. The concourse, used by American Airlines, was reopened several hours later after a search. Nothing suspi­cious was found, airline spokes­woman Sonja Whiteman said. 

. 
Two F-16 fighter jets on Thursday intercepted a private plane that flew into restricted air space near Millstone Nuclear Power Station and escorted it to Brainard Airport in Connecticut. Planes are banned from flying within 11 miles of nuclear power plants. An FBI spokeswoman said the pilot was questioned but had not been charged. 

. 
In Shippingport, Pa., mili­tary jets responded to a report of a low-flying small plane above a nuclear power plant Wednesday. The incident result­ed in the grounding of all flights for 18 minutes at Pittsburgh International Airport about 20 miles away. The small plane was not found, officials said. 


"It is perfectly fine to wear the 'Dump' or 'Suck' shirts," Gagnon said. "The one objec­tion we do have concerning T­shirts pertains to expletives and obscene language or pie­tures, they are simply not allowed." 
The University has been apologizing to those ejected or harassed for wearing the shirts. 
"I have been forthright in making my home phone num­her available for anyone who wishes to state a grievance," Gagnon said. "I have made special arrangements to make up for any wrongs done to 
Contact Van Giles at Giles.6@nd.edu. 

/~­····----· ---~ 1 Don't know which way to go? \ Head for Washington DC and The Washington Program! \ ·­w.ww.nd.edu/"' · . Applications A,/:::: are now being accepted fi-f;jj~·.._"'!!'~~~~-·.,, for Fa/12002 and Spring zooi,_~, Visit our Website, and submit an online application TODAY1  -----.\ serneste? :~i·t._. -.;.;3,-:?_ ~ :·?~\,.:....  


For Friday Tickets ­Contact the LaFortune Information Desk at 631-8128 

" t f . MARY AIMONOVICH/The Observer 
A

ssIs a!'lt pro es~or of. ~conomIcs Eduardo Zambrano spoke at the Hesburgh Center for 
International Studies, _gIvmg a lecture on terr(?rist trends and practices. The afternoon lecture 
featured four economics professors all lecturing on the subjectConsequences of the September 11th Attacks." 
focused his lecture on the insurance industry and gov­



Economy 
ernment subsidies. continued from page 1 "The World Trade Center 
attack had a catastrophic Kim, "through viable sustained effect on the overall economy," trade relations." said Cosimano. 
"Trade relations can help He stated that the attack will stabilize relationships.'' cost an estimated $40 billion 
Kim pointed out that the cur­dollars and be paid by 22 rent OECD tar-insurance iff rates estab­companies
"The World Trade Center 
lish much high­worldwide. er rates for attack had a Although exports from the figure
catastrophic effect on the
impoverished seems to 
nations than overall economy. " be enor­from member m o u s , states. ·with a Cosimano
Thomas Cosimano 
more relaxed stated that

Economics professor
trade practice the insur­with the U.S., ance com-developing .panies will nations could begin to develop have no trouble paying the ind ustries of their own and amount and that government 
increase the quality of life in subsidies are not needed. 
these countries. Panelist Teresa Ghilarducci, 
Professor Thomas Cosimano associate professor of econom­
"The Economic Causes and 
ics, was the last of the evenings speakers and concen­trated her speech on the impending recession. She pointed out to the audience that the terrorist attacks weakened an already unstable economy. 
Ghilarducci stated that the impending recession is going to be different than others we have had in the past. 
"Public policy is now differ­ent from previous recessions and wars," she said. 
"Wealthy people in society and corporations are favored," said Ghilarducci, relating how Congress is drafting legislation to help subsidize the insurance industry. "Indebted consumers are asked to shop.... We are asking people to deficit spend to help the economy." 
Contact Justin Krivickas at Krivickas.3@nd.edu. 






ATION 
Friday, November 2, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 

Tropical storm kills 4: Tropical Storm Michelle quickly gathered strength Thursday in the Caribbean. threatening to become a hurri­cane as it battered Honduras and Nicaragua with flash floods. Flooding from the storm has already killed four and forced more than 115,000 people from their homes over the past week. Another 19 people were reported miss­ing, seven in Honduras and 12 in Nicaragua. Michelle had winds of 65 mph and was predict­ed to become a hurricane on Thursday. 
Czech unit to join war effort: A Czech chemical warfare unit praised for its work in the Gulf War will join the U.S.-led war against terrorism, the Czech Republic's defense minis­ter said Thursday. The special battalion of some 300 troops is being deployed in response to a U.S. request. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

House votes to ban new drilling: 
Congress voted Thursday to ban new oil and gas drilling under the Great Lakes for the next two years. handing a victory to environmental­ists over energy industry interests. The lan­guage was includ~d in a $24.6 billion compro­mise measure financing federal energy and water programs in 2002 that the House approved by 399-29. Senate passage followed by 96-2, sending the bill to Bush. 
High court building to reopen: 
Supreme Court justices will return to the court building Friday, a week after it was shuttered by the spread of anthrax. Some of the approxi­mately 400 people who work in the building also can return to their offices Friday, but the building will remain closed to the public, spokeswoman Kathy Arberg said. Small amounts of the deadly microbe were discovered in a basement mailroom of the court, and at an off site mail sorting warehouse. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Porn arrest highlights monitoring problems: A man's arrest on charges of downloading child pornography at the Bloomington public library has highlighted the problem libraries face in balancing access to information with state laws. Russell L. Pitcher, 44, of Bloomington, was detained Sunday at the Monroe County Public Library and charged with possession of child pornography after a library patron complained that a man was viewing sexually explicit images of children. Library policy allows public computers to be used only for legal purposes, a provision that would prohibit viewing or downloading child pornography. 
Market Watch Noven1ber 1 
Dow 9,263.90 +188.76 Jones 

Composite Same: 
Volume: 189 NIA 
AMEX: 828.61 +0.92 NASDAQ: 1,746.30 +56.10 NYSE: 555.96 +9.62 S&P 500: 1,084.10 +24.32 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 INDEX (QQQ) +4.25 +1.44 35.34 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +4.37 +0.74 17.55 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) +5. 80 +0. 59 10. 34 MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) +5.35 +3.69 51.84 INTEL CORP (INTC) +5. 22 +1. 52 25. 94 
Student indicted in hijacking case 
Bible, Which Is God's Word?" ly lying about his association with
Associated Press 

A search of Awadallah's apartment Khalid Al-Mihdhar. 
NEW YORK yielded compt:ter-generated pho­Al-Mindhar and another of 
A U.S. college student who allegedly tographs of bin Laden, the indictment Awadallah 's associates, Nawaf Al­lied to a grand jury when he denied said. Hazmi, have been identified by federal knowing one of the Sept. 11 hijackers Awadallah, a 21-year-old Jordanian, authorities as hijackers on the airliner had videotapes about martyrs and pic­is a student at Grossmont College in that hit the Pentagon. tures of Osama bin Laden in his car La Mesa, Calif., near San Diego. The indictment also said a search of and home, prosecutors said in an The indictment was the first made a car registered to Al-Hazmi produced indictment released Thursday. public in New York in connection with a piece of paper on which was written 
According to the federal indictment the terrorism investigation. In court "OSAMA" and a seven-digit number. handed up ·Wednesday, a search of papers, prosecutors said they consid­Prosecutors said the number, com­Osama Awadallah's car after he was ered the attacks an "attempt to levy bined with the 619 area code used in taken into custody in September found war against the United States." the San Diego area, was a telephone videotapes titled "Martyrs of Bosnia," The indictment charges Awadallah number formerly assigned to "Bosnia 1993" and "The Koran v. the with two counts of perjury for alleged-Awadallah. 

Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES 
Gov. Gray Davis said Thursday that law enforce• ment officials have "credi­ble evidence" that terrorists may be targeting four California bridges, includ­ing the Golden Gate Bridge. 
The FBI, however, said in a statement that authorities had not yet corroborated the information but decided to issue a warning. 
"Reportedly. unspecified groups are targeting sus­pension bridges on the West Coast," the FBI said in a statement. Six "incidents" were planned during rush hour between Friday and Nov. 9, the statement said. 
The bridges identified by Davis as possible targets were the Golden Gate and Bay Bridge, both in San Francisco, the Vincent Thomas Bridge at the Port of Los Angeles, and the Coronado Bridge in San Diego. 
Security around the bridges has been height­ened and involves the National Guard, U.S. Coast Guard and California Highway Patrol. 
"The best preparation is to let terrorists know, we know what you're up to, we're ready for you." Davis said during a news confer­ence in which he also appoin.ted the state's new terrorism security czar. 
Justice Department spokeswoman Mindy 
Tucker said the information that prompted Thursday's warning was "at a lower level" than the information that led to the FBI's alert Monday. "We are working to verify the validity" of the information. Tucker said. 
The Golden Gate, a 4,200­foot-long suspension bridge, spans across the Golden Gate Strait at the entrance to San Francisco Bay. It has had more than 1.6 billion vehicle crossings since it opened in 1937. The 4 1/2­mile long San Francisco­Oakland Bay Bridge carries some 270,000 vehicles daily. 
"We feel we're well-pre­pared for any nefarious and criminal actions," said Jeff Weiss, spokesman for the San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge. "We're routinely inspecting the IDs of work­ers ... on the bridge to assure that everyone who is on the bridge belongs on the bridge." 
Although hundreds of bomb threats have be called in to authorities about sites in California, this is only the second threat judged to be credible since the Sept. 11 attacks, Davis said. The first target­ed Los Angeles movie stu• dios. 
Several Hollywood studios halted tours and increased armed patrols following a general warning Sept. 20 from the FBI that television and movie facilities could be targets. 

page 6 The Observer . NEWS Friday, November 2, 2001 
Green 
continued from page 1 
as a general rule." 

The Irish lost at home to then­to p-ranked Nebraska in September 2000, before a "sea of red" of crimson-clad, screaming 'Huskers fans. The apparent choice of Irish alumni and faculty to sell their tickets to rival fans highlighted an embarrassing decline in school pride. 
The high morale among 'Huskers is evident, Pazornik said. He recalled the blaring din of the crowd as Nebraska beat Notre Dame 27-10 this fall. 
"It's like when you turn on your car and forget how loud you had the radio turned up, and it blasts on and you turn it down really quickly. The only differ­ence is that you couldn't turn the volume down inside the stadium. Sometimes you had to cover your ears," he said. 
Irish followers should expect no less of this weekend's visiting Volunteers fans, according to Hillary Newton, of the sports information department for the Tennessee football program. 
Vols' supporters typically swell their home Neyland Stadium into a virtual sea of orange, Newton said. Students, faculty and staff traditionally sport the color on Fridays before games on the Knoxville campus. 
Come Saturday, if Notre Dame fans aren't wearing their colors, Tennessee fans will visit the House that Rockne Built in theirs. 
"Tennessee fans always· wear orange ... always," Newton said. "We like anything with Tennessee on it . . . carpet, over­a11s, cars. Ford can sell an orange Mustang in Knoxville at the drop of a hat." 
Building a base 

That sort of fan base would be magical here, Pazornik imag­ined. 
"I can picture being a player could. 
The problem, they figured, was that Irish fans generally don one of three colors -blue, gold or green -to Notre Dame Stadium. Television cameras and rival teams never see a stadium awash in a single hue. 
They took the concern to the University's athletic department. Enter administrator Bill Scholl, who was sympathetic to the seniors' budding plan. 
"It was the students approach­ing us and asking if we could help that really got us involved in the effort," said Scholl, assistant athletic director for marketing. 
Scholl quickly threw the department's support to the cam­paign. He allocated funds for advertising and posters promot­ing the venture. 
With the color campaign set to begin, all that organizers needed settle on was, well, a color. On Tuesday, the project was expect­ed to be a "blue-out." By Wednesday, they wanted to go with the kelly shade. 
"The bookstore was introduc­ing a game-specific shirt that was going to be green, so we figured it made more sense to have the students also promoting the color green rather than telling every­one to wear blue and compete with the green shirt the green shirts," Scholl said. 
Blue was the original campaign color because that was the color of the 2001 "The Shirt," the tra­ditional student football T-shirt, according to Pazornik. 
About half the order of 6,000 official "Sea of Green" T-shirts arrived Thursday, said Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore Director Jim O'Connor. He expected the other half to arrive today. 
A simple "Notre Dame" moniker and an image of a shamrock appear across the chest of the bright green shirts. 
They cost $13 for students who show their school identification card at the bookstore, the Varsity shops at the Joyce Center or Irish Express at LaFortune Student Center. 
The shirts cost $15 for non-stu­
d ents and also will be available 
at a tent outside the Joyce Center 
before and after the pep rally 
today. 

"From a service standpoint. to be able to help out this student effort is important to us," said O'Connor, who rush-ordered the shirts Wednesday and had them shipped from two distribution sites. 
"We encouraged them to use kelly green. I think it'll look great in the Stadium if we can get enough people in them," O'Connor said. 
Hoping for the best 

Don't misunderstand. Organizers of the "Sea of Green" campaign don't expect 100 per­cent participation among Irish fans Saturday. 
As nice as the efTect might be on the rival team -and Notre Dame's. 
"It's been a difficult season, and it's our last year as seniors," Pazornik said. "We want to do this as much for the players as for ourselves. 
"It's unrealistic to expect that the first time we try this that we're going to see a stadium full of green. I think this first time is important. We need to show that something like this is possible, even if it's not successful," he said. 
But there's always another game, another season for Notre Dame football and Irish fans, according to Pazornik. 
And there's always another ambitious group to carry on the work of its predecessor. 
"We look at this year as a first step. We expect students to step up in the future and try again," he said. "We'll be graduated, but just tell us what color to wear and we'll wear it." 
Contact Jason McFarley at mfarley. l@nd.edu. 
Bishops meet with pope 
Rome to have more faith in
Associated Press 
the work of local churches 
and to exercise its central 
VATICAN CITY authority mainly when issues 
The bishops who assembled of Catholic unity arise. from around the world for a Cardinals have made siinilar monthlong meeting with Pope statements on local decision­John Paul II tackled issues making. At a gathering earlier ranging from terrorism to this year, some cardinals said their mandatory retirement the Vatican should let local age. dioceses 
Yet they participate frequently "/ think it unlikely in this in the returned to selection of
pontificate, now in its 
one concern: bishops,
final innings, that there
They want which now 
more power will be many changes . . . " is decided for them­by Home. selves and a At this
Rev. Richard John Neuhaus
little less for latest Rome. Editor of First Things synod, 
Bishops have grum­bled before about the church's lack of local control in previ­ous gatherings, called synods. But at this meeting, which ran from Sept. 30 through last Saturday, some bishops expressed impatience with the lack of change. 
Archbishop Vernon Weisgerber of Winnipeg, Canada, asked for a new sen­sitivity from the Curia, the Vatican administrative body that helps the pontiff govern. 
"The bishop's role in his dio­cese is strengthened when the offices of the Roman Curia show in their communications and in their actions that they understand the varying local conditions. Otherwise, they risk becoming obstacles to communion," Weisgerber said. 
A Swiss bishop, Norbert Brunner of Sion, pleaded for 
Bishop 
A l o i s Kothgasser of Innsbruck, Austria, repeated the sugges­tion, arguing bishops "must be more intensely involved in the nominations of new bishops." 
Rome's power base had its defenders. German Cardinal Joachim Meisner argued bish­ops do not work independently but in unity with the "univer­sal jurisdictional power of the supreme pontiff." 
Some observers expected no administrative reorganization by the Vatican, despite the complaints. 
"I think it unlikely in this pontificate, now in its final innings, that there will be many changes, either in synod procedures or in distribution of ecclesial power," said the Rev. Richard John Neuhaus, a conservative and editor' of the religion magazine First Things. 

and going to Tennessee and won­dering why my fans don't do the same thing [as Volunteers fans]," he said. "I just think 'Oh my 
ll!(am: hats
gosh,' how can we not do this?" 
1)~........ o~es
}' ~~ ~::

By Monday, Pazornik and his 
. "?,: * 

group had decided that they 
l-1AiUfM=J;J:@; ' ~ 
0,,-llia ..., • Go,,... ...:• 
~':!~ JQ¥P


FREE Drfnlis.. ' • : .• I 

from CIUTPOIIT 
FREE Mttb for l.lnlb4TIIMI 

Campus ~ 
Fer Dftall • Rat 

Cold WNther Expert,, 
Coll259-1000 for more details 
Everyfire begins with a spark, a spark ofvision setfor the future. Meet those who had the vision for excellence... 
TRAILBLAZERS 
Alumni return to share their experiences as minority students and the impact it has had on their lives and careers 
When: Friday, November 2, 2001 
Where: Notre Dame Room in La Fortune 
Time: 5:30 p.m. Social Hour 
6:30 p.m.-8:30 p.m. Discussion Panel with ND Alumni 
• Food and Refreshments will be provided . . . 
• First so People attending the Forum will receive a SJ admass1on mto the Retro 70's Dance (Sponsored by NAACP) 
If you were a Notre Dame professor, what would you say in your... 
You are cordially invited to the inaugural presentation of the Last Lecture Series for the 2001­2002 academic year. 
Rev. Hugh Page,-Jr., Ph.D. 
Associate Professor of Theology Director, African-American Studies 
Monday, November 5 7pm Pasquerilla East Lounge 
REFRESHMENTS WILL BE SERVED 
SPONSORED BY P.E., KNOTT HALL, AND YOUR STUDENT 
GOVERNMENT~ 

r-----------------------------------------------~---­
"I 

Friday, November 2, 2001 page 7 
The Observer . NEWS 
IRAN 

Officials offer ex-embassy tours 
Associated Press 
TEHRAN 
The first "spy den" tour moved 
into the inner sanctum: down 
the hall, through the vault door, 
past 22-year-old graffiti 
denouncing America. 
"And here is the chamber 
where they plotted against 
Iran," the guide said Thursday. 
pointing to racks of outdated 
U.S.-made telecommunications 
consoles and rows of Teletype 
machines. "It's a very secret 
place." 
Not anymore. 
For the first time since Iran's 
1979 Islamic Revolution, the 
public can tour the former U.S. 
Embassy compound where 52 
Americans were held captive for 
444 days. The exhibit -timed· 
to coincide with the Nov. 4, 
1979, storming of the compound 
-tries to justify the siege and 
revisits old Iranian gripes 
against Washington. 
Most of the material is famil­
iar: accusations of U.S. political 
meddling directed from the for­
mer embassy, widely known 
among Iranians as the "spy 
den." Yet some is stunningly 
abstract: a showcase of "sinis­
ter" foods such as hamburgers 
and a display that links designs 
on U.S. currency to Jewish sym­
bols such as the Star of David. 
"The last generation knew about American interventions in Iran. The new generation needs to know more about the history of our revolution," said Mohammad Shoaa, director of the 10-day exhibition. 
But the present times -espe­cially after the Sept. 11 attacks -are more complicated than the lockstep anti-U.S. views of the past. Some have even sug­gested a cautious thaw in the diplomatic deep freeze. 
A committee of Iranian law­makers proposed this week opening dialogue with Washington on the future in neighboring Afghanistan if the Taliban falls. Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, quashed the idea. 
It was the latest glimpse into the widening gap between con­servative clerics and supporters of the more moderate president, Mohammad Khatami. 
Many former militants now back Khatami's reforms. None of the main hostage-takers were at the ceremony Thursday inside the embassy grounds, which until recently was used as a school for the Revolutionary Guards controlled by the hard­line clergy. 
Political analyst Saeed Laylaz viewed the exhibit as another 
ltalian~ic 
D . g 

:Hostage site now a museum 
Iran has turned the former U.S. embassy in central Tehran into a 
museum to mark the 22nd anniversary of its seizure by radical 
Islamic students in 1979. A schematic floor plan of the museum: 
Display of shredded documents, photographs and other material reputedly left by Americans. 

Ambassadors Office 
----e:::::-------, 
Vietnam room -----::'7_=,,j,,.....,..,.~..;...,..,c:_""",.,.--, Afghanistan room 
Japan \. Hiroshima , . l;;,~t room _; if,;&~ 

2nd Floor 
North Korea -•. ••··•·•.· 
room _ · ,....: •·•··· 
Steel security-~~--,,,... door 
Main entrance and glass reception area----~ 

A room of glass and steel Iran claims was used for super-secret conversations. Teletype Three mannequins now sit around a central table. machines 
SOURCE: Associated Press AP 
example of the conservatives projecting their power, saying: "The doors of any talks with the United States have been closed." 
The embassy building -a two-story brick fortress -was freshly scrubbed for the public. The interior walls were painted lime green. The window bars received a fresh coat of tan. 
The marble stairs glistened. The guide led the first visitors to places where no American had been since the hostage standoff -which ended with Ronald Reagan's inauguration as presi­dent Jan. 20, 1981. 
The first stop was the second­floor offices of Islamic Jihad and Hezbollah, groups on the State Department list of terrorist organizations. The walls are covered with gory photos of Palestinians the groups say were tortured by Israeli security forces. 
The walls were newly painted except for some graffiti the guides said was left by the hostage-takers. "This den of spies should be closed," read one message. Nearby, yellowing tape held up a picture of the rev­olution's leader, Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini. 
The next room held equip­ment made ancient by the rush of technology: old computers and communication units. The guide claimed U.S. agents could use the system to eavesdrop on 10,000 phone lines. 
On the wall, a disconnected dial telephone sagged from its mounting. And there was anoth­er emblem of the era: a sticker for the U.S. bicentennial in 1976. 

Still more blasts from the 1970s: yellow shag carpet in a Teletype room that led to anoth­er area with a huge blue machine that resembled a giant vacuum cleaner. The guide said it turned documents into a con­fetti•like mush. 
Another room -the so-called "forgery area" -was filled with old forms and photos, including one of the White House purport­edly signed by former President Jimmy Carter. 
"Now we have this," boasted the guide pulling back two heavy doors. 
Behind was the "Glassy Room," a glass-and-steel sound­proof chamber that the Iranians say was used for super-sensitive meetings. Three mannequins, dressed in Western suits, sat at a table. 
Down the hall, several rooms displayed photos and posters denouncing U.S. "aggression" that spanned from Hiroshima to Afghanistan. 
In the back of the embassy, in a pavilion covering the former parking lot and tennis courts, display after display assailed the United States. 
Some stalls were somber: snapshots of 290 people killed when a U.S. warship downed an Iranian passenger jet in 1988. 
U.S. officials say the jet was mis~ taken for a warplane. 
THE FRESHEST ITALIAN IN TOWN 
~ 
•

or1a I233.-10001 
.•  Family Owned Tradition  
Large Groups Welcome  Original Family Recipes 235 s. Michigan St. South Bend, In 4660l www.catallnos.com  Fresh Prepared Dinners, Pizza and fine drink selection.  
Dine In/Carry-out  Reservations recommended  

DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND'S FINEST ITALIAN DINING 
Buy one Dinner, get the second for 1/2. Not valid on Holidays or Notre Dame event weekends or with other offers. 
FDNY graduates 6 posthumously 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
The New York Fire Department on Thursday awarded diplomas posthu­mously for the first time, to six graduates of its training acad­emy. 
As 240 other rookie firefight­ers trooped across a stage to receive their papers, empty chairs draped in world knows we are the best." 
Family members accepted diplomas awarded posthu­mously for Richard D. Allen. Calixto Anaya Jr., Andrew C. Brunn, Michael ,!:ammarata, Michael D'Auria and Anthony Rodriguez as their classmates and a packed audience applauded. 
Anaya's wife Maria brought her three young children on stage. Her 6-year-old son Brandon, wear• ing his father's 
purple "You ·ve had to face the cap, accepted 
bunting the diploma. 
worst. We always knew 
and blue F i r e 
FDNY uni• we were the best. Now Commissioner form shirts the whole world knows Thomas Von 
w e r e Essen called
we are the best. ••
reserved the graduation for the six ceremony a abs entees Rudolph Guiliani "mixed day of 
who were joy and sor­
New York City Mayor 
among 343 firefighters killed in the World Trade Center collapse. 
"We will remember their bravery in all that we do throughout our lives," said Rabbi Joseph Potasnik, a department chaplain. 
The graduates were the department's first since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks at the trade center. 
Mayor Rudolph Giuliani noted that many trainees were assigned to firehouses and worked during the attacks, receiving a special initiation into the perils of their profes• sion. 
"You've had to face the worst," Giuliani told gradu­ates. "We always knew we were the best. Now the whole row." 
"If I was a 
parent I would wonder, 'Was 
my son well enough trained?' 
We would never send people 
out who weren't trained for 
the job," Von Essen said. 
The academy provides 11 weeks of instruction and two weeks of on-the-job training at firehouses, after which the cadets return to school for evaluation. Graduates remain probationary firefighters for one year. 
Brogan Healy, a co-valedicto• rian. said neither he nor any of his colleagues regrets the deci­sion to become firefighters. 
"We have entered into a brotherhood and we look to our big brothers," said Healy. who moved from California to join FDNY ranks. 
UKRAINE Military: reflections caused accident 
Associated Press 
KIEV 
Reflections from surface of the Black Sea may have caused a Ukrainian missile to down a Russian passenger jet last month, Ukraine's security chief said Thursday. 
All 78 passengers aboard the Sibir Airlines Tu-154 were killed when it crashed into the Black Sea on Oct. 4 on its way from Israel to Novosibirsk, Russia. The plane was hit by a S-200 missile fired from the Crimean peninsula during training exer­cises by Ukraine's navy. 
Ukraine's Security and Defense Council chief Yevhen Marchuk and Ukrainian and Russian officials traveled Thursday to Crimea for a com­puter simulation to determine how the accident could have happened. 
Marchuk said on Russia's NTV television that during the simu­lation the targets were hit suc­cessfully, but there was some radio interference that could have been caused by "reflec­tions from the water surface." 
He suggested a similar prob­lem could theoretically have dis­rupted a signal at the time of the accident, and allowed the missile to hone in on the plane instead of its intended target. 
But Marchuk said the conclu­
sions were only preliminary and 
require further examination. 
NTV suggested the theory was 
an attempt by the Ukrainian 
side to save face and exonerate 
naval officials. 
During Thursday's simulation, a real Tu-154 flew the same route as the downed plane, but the shooting was simulated on a computer. 
Russian Security Council Chief Vladimir Rushailo agreed with preliminary conclusions that technical reasons and unusual circumstances came together to cause the accident, according to Interfax. 
Rushailo and Marchuk plan to report on the experiment's results to Ukraine's President Leonid Kuchma on Saturday. 
After Kuchma admitted that a Ukrainian anti-aircraft missile downed the Russian plane, he fired Defense Minister Oleksandr Kuzmuk and his aides. 
The· president also ordered all Ukrainian missiles to be checked, banned missile launch~ es until the accident investiga­tion was completed, and promised compensation to the victims' families. Most of the passengers were recent Russian emigrants to Israel. 
Friday, November 2, 2001 

page 8 The Observer . NEWS 
September spending 
dropped sharply 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
Consumers jolted by the terror attacks and rising layoffs cut back on spending in September by the largest amount in more than 14 years. Manufacturing activity plummeted. 
The Commerce Department reported Thursday that spend­ing plunged by 1.8 percent in September, following a modest 
0.3 percent gain in August. 

Consumer spending accounts for two-thirds of all economic activity and had been a main force keeping the economy afloat for more than a year. But economic fallout from the Sept. 11 attacks, including rocketing layoffs, plunging consumer con­fidence and billions of dollars in lost business. has likely pushed the country into recession. 
Another report suggested that the manufacturing sector. the weakest part of the overall econ­omy, sank deeper into recession in October. 
The National Association of Purchasing Management report­ed that manufacturing activity plunged to 39.8 last month from 47 in September, the 15th con­secutive month of decline. An index above 50 signifies growth in manufacturing, while a figure below 50 shows contraction. 
Manufacturers have been bearing the brunt of the eco­nomic slump. To cope with sag­ging demand by businesses and consumers, factories have sharply cut production and elim­inated 1.1 million workers in the last 14 months. 
The 1.8 percent drop in con­sumer spending was the largest decline since a decrease of the same amount in January i987. The last time it was higher was in May 1960, when consumers cut spending by 1.9 percent. 
Americans' personal income, which includes wages, interest and government benefits,_ was flat in September, reflecting the weakened state of the nation's labor market and the toll of the terror attacks. It was the worst showing since January 1994. In August, incomes rose by a tiny 0.1 percent. 
Separately, builders trimmed spending on construction pro­jects around the country by 0.4 percent in September, the fifth monthly decline in a row. The weakness reflected a 1.2 percent cut in spending on residential buildings, including single-fami­ly homes and multifamily hous­ing, such as apartments and condominiums. Spending on commercial projects, including industrial buildings, dipped by 
0.4 percent, while spending on big government projects rose 1.2 percent. 
In the wake of the attacks, builders say they are paying extra close attention to demand. Home builders say they may start offering incentives to attract prospective buyers. 
In the personal income and spending report, spending on durables -costly manufactured goods expected to last at least three years . .such as cars and washing machines -fell by a sharp 3.2 percent in September, the biggest drop since January 1999. In August, spending on durable goods dipped by 0.3 percent. 
Spending on nondurables, such as clothes and foods, declined by 1.3 percent. the largest drop since March 1993, after rising by 0.3 percent. Spending on services dropped by 
1.8 percent, the biggest decline since the government began record-keeping in 1959. In August, spending on services rose 0.5 percent. 
In another report, the Labor Department said new claims for unemployment benefits edged down last week by 10,000 to 499,000 but was still at a level that suggests an extremely weak labor market. 
The economic picture is likely to get worse before it gets bet­ter, economists say. 
Many economists predict the nation's unemployment rate jumped to 5.1 percent in October from 4.9 percent in September and that companies eliminated more than 280,000 jobs during the month. The government will release the employment report for October on Friday. 

Study in Notre Da.me's International Study Programs in 
PUEBLA, MEXICO MONTERREY, MEXICO 
INFORMATION SESSION 

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2001 5:00 PM 
319 DeBartolo 

Physics taught in Puebla in the fall semester for Pre­Professional Students Engineering courses available in Monterrey AL and BA Courses also available in both locations 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: DEC. 1, 2001 FOR F'2002, AY 2002-2003 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE: www.nd.edu/~intlstud/ 


look no further-the OIT is HIRING!· 
Resident Comuter Consultants (gpr;n9 
'0?.) 
DUTIES INCLUDE: 
¥ 

lROtlBlf.SfitHH rnG -INSTALLING &REPA!RlNS NETWORK CONNfCTIVIIY DF Rf.SIPDJT COMFUTE?.S lN THE Ri:S ID~NC-t HALLS -MJSWEIHNG GENERAL. l~TERHET 'SOf=rnA~:£ QllESHOt~S 
Apply no\N at http://www.nd.edu/,-ndoit/employ 
(l'hrough Noverrl>cr 15th) 
r Qucstfons? CaU 631--H4~7 t~ail ahickcrsffnd.cdu 
Friday, November 2, 2001 
The Observer . NEWS page 9 
MEXICO 
Mexicans celebrate the Day of the Dead 
Associated Press 
TZINTZUNTZAN 

With traditional flower-decked altars dedicated to deceased rel­atives and friends, Mexicans cel­ebrated the first of two Day of the Dead holidays Thursday, remembering those who died as children. 
A second celebration Friday is traditionally held for those who died as adults. 
Yellow cempasuchitl flowers -whose bright color is thought to guide the dead back to loved ones -surrounded pho-' tographs of the deceased placed near gravesides or at home altars. 
At the graveyard in the largely Indian west Mexico town of Tzintzuntzan, children played among the tombs as adults dec­orated graves with candles and flowers. 
Many residents brought small cook stoves and food, to prepare a graveside meal during their vigil at the tombs of their rela­tives. 
Some placed trails of flower petals leading to their doors, to mark the way home for the spir­its of the dead. 
"Rather than a U.S.-style holi­day of Halloween or witches, this is a nostalgic commemora­tion for our dear departed," columnist David Fernandez Hummel wrote for the govern­ment news agency Notimex. 
The tradition appears rooted in pre-Hispanic beliefs that life is brief and transitory, and that the spirits of the dead went nei­ther to a paradise or hell, but wandered for years before entering Mictlan. the "land of the dead." 
The dead were indeed present Thursday. In front of their pho­tographs, relatives placed can­dles, ..dead bread" pastry, and the favorite food and drink of the deceased, to give them a warm welcome. 
Traditions vary throughout Mexico, reflecting customs inherited from the country's 62 Indian groups. 
In southern Mexico, relatives burn copal incense over the altars, and in some communities people light bonfires in the door­ways of their houses to guide the dead home. Some families mount all-night vigils at grave­sides to "chat" with their departed loved ones; others arrange an afternoon meal at graveside. 
Some bring guitars and hold a graveside serenade. singing the favorite songs of the deceased. 
Among Chamula Indians in Chiapas. the holiday includes a new period of mourning -no matter how long ago a relative died -and a ritual of cleaning all the roads and fresh water springs in the area, to guarantee the dead a comfortable journey. 
In one Maya Indian town in the southern state of Campeche, residents use the holiday to clean the previously buried and disinterred bones of their rela­tives, and place fresh cotton cloths in boxes where the bones are stored at graveyards. 
States must toughen Megan's Laws 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 
The federal government has 
ordered Ohio and 13 other 
states to make their Megan's 
laws stronger or risk losing mil­
lions in grant money. 
Making their laws consistent with the federal Megan's Law is one of 17 requirements for states to receive a federal grant that pays for crime prevention and victims' assistance pro­grams in communities nation­wide. 
The U.S. Bureau of Justice Assistance notified the states in June that they would lose 10 percent of their annual grant beginning next year if they did not change their sex-offender registration laws by October. The National Criminal Justice Association, which is working with the states on the problem, said it is uncertain if any of the 14 met the deadline. 
For Ohio, which receives about $19 million a year, the loss would be nearly $2 million. 
"It might not seem like a lot, but communities are counting on this money for programs that have proven to be a suc­cess," said Domingo Herraiz, director of the Ohio Department of Criminal Justice Services. 
Sheriffs and police depart­ments can use the money to pay for task forces, community policing efforts, victims' advo­cacy projects or treatment pro­grams for drug-and alcohol­addicted off enders. 
All 50 states and the federal government have passed some type of sex-offender registra­tion law since 1994 when 7­year-old Megan Kanka, was raped and murdered by a con­victed sexual offender who lived near her family's New 
States' Megan's Laws fall 
The federal government warned 14 states that their sex-off ender registration laws, called Megan's Laws, don't comply with the federal law. As a result, those states are in danger of losing grant money. 
¦ States whose Megan's Laws are not in compliance 

SOURCES: Ohio Office of Criminal Justice Services; Associated Press AP 
Jersey home. 
States had until last month to change their laws to require sex offenders to register with local authorities for life. 
In some states, sexual offend­ers are required to register for only a certain length of time, not life, and can ask a court to terminate the registration order, which also is against the federal law. 

"Some states have faced diffi­culty because their Legislatures didn't want to change the law. For the most part, that's been the problem," said Cabell Cropper, executive director of the National Criminal Justice Association. 
Besides Ohio, the states are Alabama, Indiana, Maryland, Massachusetts, Montana, Nebraska, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North Dakota, Texas, Virginia and Washington. 
Virginia said it believes its law already is in compliance. Texas also believes it is in com­pliance and is contacting the federal government to find out why the state was named. A bill in the Nebraska Legislature would make the necessary changes and is awaiting debate. 
In Ohio, only offenders labeled sexual predators are required to register for life, and they can petition a court to throw out that designation. Habitual sexual off enders must register with authorities for 20 years, and sexually oriented offenders for 10 years. 
Officials said the state is try­ing to round up support for the changes among lawmakers and sheriffs and has asked the gov­ernment for more time. 

INTER.RACE FORUM: 
SHADES OF BROVVN, BLACK, YELL0\1\/, WHITE ...... WHO 
I??? 

Wednesday, Noven1ber 7, 200 1 S: 30 p.n,. Center-for-Social Concen1s 



All ar·e vvelcon,e to join us for L, discussion and di1iner·, follo\.ved by a pe1·fon,1ance by Antonio Sac1·e entitled II Br-ovvn, Black, White All Over·" in the LaF01-tune Ball1·00111. 
RSVP to MSPS at 63 1-684 I 







u ort the Irish 

If you are plannin~ to attend the gme on Satur,lay please help support the student body initiative to turn Notre Dame stadium into a Sea of Kelly Green. Kelly is the pref erred eolor, but any shade will do. 
Friday, November 2, 2001 page 11
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
Anthrax cleanup continues nationwide 
. Midwest facilities handle equipment from D.C., New Jersey 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Traces of anthrax contamina­tion are being cleaned up at mail-related facilities in Kansas City, Mo., and Indianapolis as the Postal Service continues to struggle with bioterrorism spread by the mail. 
In Indianapolis, a private com­pany that does repairs for the post office found the bacteria on a machine part sent from the Postal Service. 
It was first reported that it came from the contaminated Brentwood facility in Washington, D.C. Indiana offi­cials later said the part came from Trenton, N.J., where postal facilities also have been tainted by mailed anthrax. 
Workers at the company were being given antibiotics: no ill­nesses had been reported. 
Traces of anthrax were found in two waste baskets at the post office's stamp fulfillment center in Kansas City. About 170 postal workers are taking antibiotics there and none has reported sickness. 
The source of that suspected anthrax is thought to be a ship­ment of mail that arrived Oct. 19 from the Brentwood facility. 
Gary Stone, manager of the Kansas City center, said 14 trays with about 7,000 pieces of mail sat untouched over a weekend. On Oct. 22, after anthrax spores were found at Brentwood, Stone ordered the Brentwood ship­ment isolated and shrink­wrapped. 
Tests were then started at the Kansas City facility, including on the contents of employees' wastebaskets. 
Neither facility processes mail for local delivery and both are now closed for decontamination, postal vice president Azeezaly Jaffer said Thursday. 

The Kansas City center han­dles mail orders, largely for stamp collectors, and receives items from all over the country for redistribution, JafTer said. 
He said testing for possible contamination is planned for more than 200 postal facilities. That involves any location that received material from locations where anthrax has been found, plus others being checked as a precaution, despite the fact that there is no evidence of a prob­lem at those spots. 
Tests have been completed in 64 facilities, with 39 found to be clean, he said. Test results are 
• Daschle's office to be gassed, other offices get foam treatment 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
When it comes to anthrax, the experts are not sure how clean is clean enough. 
Some Capitol Hill rooms are being sprayed with a high-tech foam that zaps every bug. Preparations are under way to fill the entire Hart are uncertain how much anthrax mother nature pro­vides -called natural back­ground -and how much comes from bioterrorism. 
Although anthrax spores are common in many rural parts of the country, Gerberdin said the CDC is assuming that the natural background for anthrax is "is low to nonde­tectable" and is helping to support a clea11up in any building where spores are found. 
The foam used in the mail­rooms looks like dishpan suds. 
It was devel­
oped using 

not back for 17 locations and the 
Senate "This is the only method ordinary 

eight where anthrax was found office build­chemicals
that will preserve 

were closed, or affected areas 
ing with a that might 
killing gas. important papers, be found

isolated, for cleanup. Some have since reopened. 
Workers documents, while under a Brentwood remains closed. 
sprayed a kitchen sink. 
protecting senators, their

powerful But tests mination in any public areas of 
JafTer said tests found no conta­
chemical staffs and the public. " at show the the building. 
foam on the foam will kill "It's encouraging that the 
floors, walls or neutralize
Harry Reid 
and furni­virtually anymajority of tests have come back 

Nevada Senator

negative," he said. ture in the mailrooms in the Ford 

and Dirksen office buildings 
and were to test the rooms for 
any remaining anthrax spores. 
At the Hart building, closed 
since an anthrax-laced letter 
was opened in Sen. Tom 
Daschle's office, workers on 
Thursday were sealing doors 
and windows and other open­
ings in preparation for gassing 
the nine-story structure. 
Chlorine dioxide is expected to 
kill everything it touches ­
mice, rats, roaches and 
anthrax spores. 
The effort comes despite an uncertainty about how much cleaning is needed to assure the buildings are safe again. 
Federal health officials 
admitted this week that they 
are not sure how many 
anthrax spores should be con­
sidered hazardous and how 
many present little risk. 
"We are trying to draw a line between a safe level of spores and a health risk," Dr. Julie Gerberdin of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said Thursday. 
"We don't really know ­even though the textbooks say we know -what are the criti­cal number of spores needed to get inhaled anthrax," said Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases. 
Some studies suggest it takes · 8,000 to 10,000 spores to cause inhaled anthrax. Fauci said those numbers are "open to debate." 
"Fifty-thousand will do it, but one or two will not. Somewhere in between is the right number," he said. 
Experts say there are many unknowns but they have no choice: Doctors are learn the science at the same time they must make decisions about treatment, protection and cleanup. 
One problem is that experts bioterrorism 

weapon 
known, 
including anthrax and nerve 
gas. 
"We've shown that it will 
attack and kill the core spore 
in anthrax," said Peter J. 
Baucher, president of 
Envirofoam Technologies, Inc., 
the Huntsville, Ala., company 
that markets the foam under 
contract with Sandia. 
"It is a very strong disinfec­
tant," he said. "It kills bugs. 
bacteria, mildew and mold 
and leaves the rooms squeaky 
clean." 
Baucher said workers 
sprayed up to 3 inches of the 
white suds in the mailrooms 
and let it sit for several hours. 
A crew then sprayed a 
defoamer that collapses the 
bubbles and leaves behind a 
bathtub-like scum that is 
removed with soap and water. 
The foam leaves behind no 
stains, Baucher said, but it will 
wrinkle photos and papers. 
Protecting the papers, photos 
and art work in the offices of 
50 senators is one reason offi­
cials decided to sterilize the 
Hart building with gas. 
"This is the only method that 
will preserve important 
papers, documents, while pro­
tecting senators, their staffs 
and the public," said Sen. 
Harry Reid, D-Nev. 
Paul Schaudies, an Environmental Protection Agency consultant, said that the plans call for sealing the entire building with plastic and duct tape. Sensors will ensure the structure is air­tight. 
Then air will be drawn from the building, passed through a system that makes chlorine dioxide gas, and then pumped back in. Inside, the building's heating and air conditioning system will distribute the gas. 
The workers will hold the gas concentration inside the building at 200 parts per mil­lion for 24 hours, long enough to soak every surface, crack and crevice in the 10-million­cubic-foot building. 
That gives a 99.9999 percent kill efficiency, Schaudies said. 
Test strips of harmless bac­teria, substituting for anthrax, will be placed around the building to ensure that microbe-killing levels of the gas are achieved. 
The gas will be pumped out of the building and neutral­ized. After more tests, the sen­ators and their staffs will be allowed to return. 




page 12 

The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, November 2, 2001 
THE FOLLOWING EVENTS ARE HAPPENING AT THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE: 
Author Events: 
Fr. Nicholas Ayo will be signing copies of Signs ofGrace on Friday, Nov. 2 from 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. 
Professor Ralph Mcinerny, will be signing copies of Emerald Aisle, 5th in the Notre Dame series, on Friday, Nov. 2 from 12:00 p.m. to 2:00 p.m. 
Margie Lapanja will be signing copies of Food Men Love 
on Friday, Nov. 2 from 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. and 
Saturday, Nov. 3 from 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 Noon. 
Rosemary Wells, acclaimed author of over 60 books for 
children featuring those endearing characters Max, 
McDuff, '"fimothy, Yoko, and Felix, will sign books on 
Saturday, Nov. 3 at 8:00 a.m. 
John Heisler will be signing copies of Quotable Rockne on Saturday, Nov. 3 from 9:00 a.m. to 10:30 a.m. 
Paul Gullifor will be signing copies of The Fighting Irish on the Air on Saturday, Nov. 3 from 9:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. 
·,;,:" 

The Junior League of South Bend will be hosting a 
tasting of sweets from their cookbooks Nutbread And Nostalgia and Great Beginnings, Grand Finales, on 
Saturday, Nov. 3 from 10:00 a.m. to 1 :00 p.m. 
Ted Mandell, ND Professor of Film & Video Production, will be signing copies of Heart Stoppers and Hail Marys on Saturday, Noy.,~ from I0:00 a.m. to 12:00 Noon. 
_;,.,-, _;, ' ­
Gerry Faus~ ~ill be signing copies of The Golden Dream on Saturday, Nov. 3, from 11:00 a.m. to 12 Noon. 
Musical Event: 
The Undertones, Notre Dame acappella group, will 
perform on Saturday, Nov. 3 in the Bookstore one hour 
following the game. 
HAMMES 

NOTRE DAME 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore Varsity Shop (in the Joyce Center) 
BOOKS'IORE 
Friday 9:00 am -l 0:00 pm Friday 9:00 am -5:00 pm IN THE ECK CENTER Saturday 8:00 am -10:00 pm Saturday 8 :00 am -7 :00 pm Sunday 9:00 am -10:00 pm Sunday 10:00 am -2:00 pm
phone: 631-6316 • www.ndbookstore.com 



Friday, November 2, 200 I page 13
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
Microsoft settlement to be presented 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Microsoft Corp. and the Justice Department agreed to present a settlement of their antitrust fight to a trial judge Friday, but states involved in the case decided to ask for more time, people familiar with the negotiations said. 
The Bush administration seemed on the brink of settling the historic case, launched under its predecessor, with wide implications for the sag­ging economy and technology industry that relies heavily on Microsoft products. 
State attorneys general who joined in the original lawsuit decided Thursday to proceed more slowly and ask U.S. District Judge Colleen Kollar­Kotelley for an additional four days to a week to examine the details, people close to the talks said. 
The decision by Microsoft and the Justice Department to proceed without full support by the states threatened to widen the gulf between state and fed­eral officials who are partners in the case. · 
The proposed deal would change how Microsoft pack­ages and sells its flagship Windows operating system and make it easier for consumers to 

, remove certain features and install rival programs from other software makers, accord­ing to people who were briefed on the negotiations. 
The settlement would impose 
some restrictions on Microsoft 
during the next five years and 
could be extended two more 
years -until 2008 -if the 
company violated terms of the 
deal, the sources said, speaking 
only on condition of anonymity. 
A three-person panel would 
monitor Microsoft's compli­
ance, they added. The current 
antitrust case is rooted in alle­
gations that Microsoft violated 
a related 1995 agreement with 
the Justice Department. 
If states cannot support the settlement, they could object during public hearings in an effort to scuttle the deal, or they could decide to pursue the case separately in court them­selves. 
Justice Department antitrust chief Charles James made per­sonal calls Thursday to enlist the states' support, sources said. 
The markets reacted positive­ly to word of a possible deal that experts hope will invigo­rate the sagging technology sector. Microsoft shares surged $3.69 to close at $61.84. 
A court has already ruled Microsoft operated as an illegal monopoly and improperly thwarted competitors. But the original penalty imposed in the case -it would have required Microsoft to be split into two companies -was overturned 
·by a federal appeals court this summer. 
If some states decide to 
oppose the deal, they could use 
a Tunney Act hearing to try to 

persuade Kollar-Kotelly to throw out the settlement on grounds that it wasn't in the public interest. 
Legal experts said such a maneuver, however, would be a long shot. 
The Bush White House has favored a settlement with the software giant. Spokesman Ari Fleischer said the president has faith the Justice Department "will make good decisions that serve the nation­al interest." 
Critics weren't as quiet. 
Rep. John Conyers, D-Mich., the House Judiciary Committee's top Democrat, accused the department of making "inexplicable and irra­tional" concessions in the set­tlement talks. 
"This is like losing a game by forfeit when your team was ahead with the bases loaded and your best batter on deck," Conyers said. 
Neither Conyers nor Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy was consulted about the settlement, their spokesmen said. 
Justice and Microsoft officials declined comment. 
The prospective settlement would not require complete disclosures by Microsoft of the underlying programming code for its dominant Windows oper­ating system, according to business analyst David Readerman of Thomas Weisel Partners in San Francisco. 
A lawyer involved in the talks said Microsoft would give 
. 
A three-person panel would monitor compliance with agreement. 

. 
Would not require complete disclosures of the source code for Windows. 

. 
Requires a version of Windows with bundled features and without. 

. 
Prohibits restrictive contracts between Microsoft and computer makers that would 


The United States versus Microsoft 
Settlement could be endgame 
Microsoft Corp. and the Justice Department have reached an agreement to settle the historic antitrust case already won by the government. The settlement -needing the approval of attorneys general from 18 states -would impose restrictions for the next five years, but would not break up the software giant. 
Terms in the agreement 

. 
Must allow customers to remove portions of Windows via an icon on the desktop. 

. 
Must still offer previous versions of Windows for a fixed period of time. 

. 
Allows for financial incentives, such as discounts, to entice computer makers to sell the fatter Windows. 

. 
Portions of the Internet Explorer Web browser code 


SOURCE: Associated Press AP 
developers access to other details about the underpin­nings of Windows that would let rivals create software that worked seamlessly with the flagship operating system. 
Microsoft also would have to offer a version of Windows without extra features side by side with versions that bundle 
those features, the sources said. 
The settlement also would prohibit restrictive contracts between Microsoft and comput­er makers that·would discour­age them from buying the slimmed-down version, Readerman and other sources said. 


ustra ia 
"the land down under" 
Information Meeting 
Monday,Nov.5,2001 
5:15 PM 
Room 127 Hayes Healy AL & BA Majors ! 
Application Deadline: December 1, 2001 Apply On-line: www.nd.edu/-intlstud 

O
THE 

BSERVER 

Friday, November 2, 2001 
page 14 



THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Pat Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadter ScENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MAR.v's EDITOR: Myra McGriff 
PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD OF.SIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvcl Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CoNTR0ll.ER: Kevin Ryan 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Kacie McKenna 
CONTACT Us 

OmCE MANAGER/GENERAL {NF0 .............. 631-7471 FAX......•...., ................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAsS'r. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE ........................................ 631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. I@nd.edu SPORTS.............................••••····•··•···••·•••·•· ..• 631-4543 
observer .sports. I@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. I@nd.edu SAINT MARv's........•....................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ................ .631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 

movies/music for
weather for up-to-the 

weekly student reviews
minute forecasts 
advertise for policies 

online features for spe­
and rates of print ads 

cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 

about The Observer 
articles published after 

to meet rhe editors and 
staff
August 1999 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves rhe right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department ed.itors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not n:cessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The fi-ee expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolic~s should be direct­ed to &iitor in ChiefMike Conno/Jy. 
Show spirit by wearing The Shirt 
Less than three months after students purchased blue student T • The original plan for the "Sea of Green" campaign this Saturday shirts. traditionally known as The Shirt, the Notre Dame athletic called for Irish fans to wear blue. When student organizer Rob department and the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore are encour• Pazornik contacted The Observer with preliminary plans for this aging students to wear green as a show ofsolidarity for the Irish weekend's color scheme, he was very clear that the color of choice against the Volunteers. was blue. This plan made sense since The Shirt is blue. 
This plan may help produce a solid green dis­Oi.Jhe Under the original plan. students, alumni and fans play of Irish spirit on Saturday. But more than userver could either don The Shirt or, ifthey didn't want to likely, this plan will only generate more money spend money on The Shirt, they could wear any other for adidas through the sale of green T-shirts at blue shirt. But because adidas had already printed 
Editorialthe bookstore. • green shirts for the bookstore this weekend. the plan 
Students, alumni and fans should keep wearing The Shirt. Ifstudents, alwnni or fans don't have The Shirt yet, they should buy it. The money from The Shirt goes to the emergency student aid fund and Student Activities. The emergency student aid fund helps students who face extenuating financial difficulty during the school year. 
In the past, the money has been used to help pay medical bills of students injured in car accidents, among other worthy causes. Purchasing a green shirt at the bookstore will only benefit the bookstore and adidas. Sales of The Shirt are already lower than usual this year. Encouraging fans to buy another color T-shirt will only hurt the student emergency fund and Student Activities even more. 
was changed from wear blue to wear green. 
Now. Irish fans can either wear their own green shirt or pur­chase a green shirt from the bookstore. But a green shirt from the bookstore will only benefit the bookstore and aclidas. Through the "Sea of Green" campaign, the Notre Dame athletic department is encouraging Irish fans to support adidas and not purchase The Shirt -which will benefit charity and student activities. 
So just wear The Shirt. 
Supporting the student emergency fund and Student Activities is much more important than any color. Irish spirit goes much deep­er than the color you wear. True Irish spirit can be shown by sup­porting student clubs and the emergency student aid fund -not adidas shareholders. 

Separating politics and religion 
This week's tragic slaughter of Christians in Pakistan by Islamic funda­mentalists emphasizes just how important it is to separate church and state. lfl was the antithesis of those like Jerry Falwell 
who shoot off their  
mouths in self•serv­ Gary Caruso  
ing and self-right­ 
eous fervor, I would  
say it is God's way of punishing Christians  Capitol Comments  
for the atrocities  
they perpetrated  
during the crusades.  

I applaud our pope for apologizing for past transgressions by the Roman Catholic Church throughout history. It was truly courageous for the pope to admit that men, in the name of God and in the name of his church. grievously infringed upon others with armies of warriors. It goes to show that literal interpretations by Christian or Jew. Muslim Taliban or Christian Fundamentalist lead to conflict. Moderation and tolerance towards one another are cobblestones towards the path of peace, not dogmatic certainty based on one religion. 
It is time that we in the United States open our eyes to the destructive nature of religious certainty and ardor. both throughout the world and within our own backyard. Acting like cowboys throughout the world has led us to the situation we are experiencing today. Supporting any dictator or royal family who pays us lip service while persecuting their country­men has been our nation's policy since World War II. Nation building, despite the Republican rhetoric of the last campaign, is what could have prevented the Taliban from seizing control of Afghanistan. 
This past Tuesday the cable network MSNBC aired a French-produced under­cover report on the Taliban's rule in Afghanistan. They began the program by explaining that "Taliban" translates into "student of religion." In this case, student of Islam according to the ruling officials is called "Mullah," or religious leader's inter­pretations of the Koran. 
One of the Mullah who was interviewed said, "We make no distinction between religion and politics." That way of thought is exactly the reason why it is important to have no majority dictate a religion, nor religious interpretations in our nation or any other country in the world. 
When so-called Christian televangelists try to tell me that I must somehow be spir­itually reborn sometime during my life in order to be saved, I wonder about all the charitable Gentiles whom the Jews were certain Jesus should forsake. When I'm told by Protestant preachers that I must deaicate my life to Jesus Christ in order to be saved, I wonder why the Catholic Church bothers with God the Father and the Holy Spirit. 
The Christian conservative movement in the United States uses the same tactics as the Taliban, but without physically killing or harming others. 
Both movements use an enemy to rally their supporters. The Taliban have their "infidels" who can be anybody at any time. Political conservatives throughout the years have had such issues with which to identify enemies such as Communists in the 1960s, legalized abortion and the women's movement during the Equal Rights Amendment process in the 197Os, gays in the 1980s, Bill Clinton and immi· grants in the 1990s, and non-Christians in the 2000s. 
The Taliban claim that women are afforded their rights according to the Koran and need no special legislation to guarantee them (sounds eerily like the conservative arguments against hate crime legislation in the U.S.). Rather, the Taliban have a Ministry for the Propagation of Virtue and Eradication of Vice. The Mullah from that agency decide what the interpretation of "family values" will be in their society, but nothing may elicit pleasure. 
People may attend a soccer match but may not express pleasure. Taliban with whips punish anyone in the stands who expresses emotion. Nobody can keep birds that sing for they also bring strictly forbid­den pleasure. Women may not wear shoes with heels for they make noise when walk­ing. Women may not wear white shoes, since white is the color of the Taliban flag and will be interpreted as walking on the flag. Women may not be educated and may not work, thus eliminating about a third of the doctors previously practicing in Afghanistan. 
Schools forbid girls from attending and keep females illiterate. Women have no say in the political system -reminiscent ofthe chauvinistic attitudes of early Christian and early American men. Schools teach their children that the pur­pose oftheir lives is self-sacrifice. In ele­mentary grades, the letter "j" is one of the first of the alphabet taught along with the word for holy war, "jihad." Children are taught that participating in the holy war is their duty in life. 
What are the dangers of sanctioning the majority's religion within the public policy ofan entire nation? Look at the carnage and rubble of lower Manhattan. What is the response to those who insist that prayer in U.S. schools builds character and instills values in our children? Send your children to a private school or be a good parent and teach them yourself. Public schools are for teaching social sciences, science, math and literature -not a spe­cific religion. That is what prevents this nation from drifting into the realm of brainwashing. 
Gary J. Caruso. Notre Dame class of 1973, served in President Clinton's admin­istration as a Congressional and Public Affairs Director. His column appears every other Friday, and his Internet address is Hottline@aoLcom. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Scene  
Scott Brodfuehrer  Amanda Greco  
Sheila Egts  Graphics  
Sports  Andy Devoto  
Matt Lozar  Production  
Viewpoint  Andrew Soukup  
Lori Lewalski  Lab Tech  
Angela Campos  

POLL RESULTS 
. Is excessive tailgating a Yes problem at Notre Dame? 7% 
poll courtesy of ndtoday.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"When the going gets tough, that's when we like it.•· 
Knute Rockne former Notre Dame football coach 


O
THE 
BSERVER 


Friday, November 2, 2001 page 15 
Knowing when to let go 
Station 55 Ambulance, Medic 91. Brandywine Hall Nursing Horne. 800 West Miner Street. An unresponsive person. 
The dispatch goes out and the ambulance leaves the garage with lights and sirens. This type of call is nothing out of the ordinary since a good percentage of our calls involve dispatches to nursing homes. For me it's a big deal because it is only my third time riding in the ambulance on the way to an emergency. I 
haven't even started my EMT class yet. At this point I am running Stephen Carroll as an attendant, meaning that I am just an extra set of hands. To say I was unprepared would be a vast understatement. 
We arrive to find a 90-year-old woman sitting in her wheelchair 
A Medical 
surrounded by her family. With as little experience as l have, I can 
Perspective
tell that her breathing does not look good. She is using her shoul­der muscles to breathe, which is a sign that the end is near. Her family says that she was fine a few days ago but had suddenly stopped talking and responding to them. When we ask her family how much they want us to do, they reply. "Do everything you have to." 
I help move her to the stretcher and out to the ambulance. On the way to the hospital I get an idea of how bad it really is. She has no veins to start an IV. Her arm literally has no muscle attached to it. When one of the EMTs tries to ventilate her, she fights it by clamping her mouth shut. The paramedic tries to put a tube down her throat but she continues to fight. The medic has to try anyway because we have to do "every­thing." 
While this is going on, I just sit there and watch. I am horrified by this whole situation because I see that her time has come. I can tell that she doesn't want to waste away on a respirator. She just wants to pass away peacefully and we are preventing that. We rush her to the hospital where she is met by several nurses and a doctor who work to intubate her. 
Unfortunately this case is more the norm rather than the exception. I have seen many nursing home patients like this and it is depressing. Often it is the family of the patient who wants their relative to live as long as possible, even if it means going against their wishes and having no quality of life. Granted I only know the person for about a half an hour while I am treating them and I don't know everything that is going on. What I do know is that I would never want a family member to be kept alive when their time has come. 
\Vhen nursing home patients stop eating, we give them tubes in their stomach to feed them. This can last for months or even years. When they get pneumonia, we intubate them only to see them waste away on a respirator. When they go into cardiac arrest, we perform CPR, breaking their ribs and sternum from top to bottom. I never look for-
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Support the "Sea of Greeii" 
By now, we believe most of the Notre Dame community has heard abot the student initiative to wear green to tomorrow's football game versus Tennessee. On behalf of the Athletics Department and the entire football team, we want to congratulate the students for their creativity in developing and implementing the "Sea of Green" J)romotion and, more importantly, thank them for their incredible support of our football program. We have had the good fortune to see college football games on campuses around the country. Have no doubt, the best of college football weekends take place right here on this campus and the stu­dents are one of the biggest reasons for this. Virtually 100 percent of our stu­dent body purchses season football tickets. there is not another school in the country that can make that claim. Again, thank you for your tremendous sup­port and pease know how much we appreciate your efforts to turn Notre Dame Stadium into a "Sea of Green" tomorrow. We encourage all Irish fans to show up in green and be ready to cheer until the final gun. Go Irish! 
Kevin White 
athletic director 
Bob Davie 
football coach Nov. 1, 2001 
ward to the sickening crunch when I perform those first chest compressions. 
These treatments are continued when it does nothing to treat the underlying condi'­tion or improve the patient's quality of life. They only serve to prolong the "life" of the patient. I put "life" in quotes because when someone is kept alive against their will and has no quality of life, is that really life? When someone stops eating, to me it is a sign tnat they are letting go of life. Yet their wishes are not respected. Even when the patient's wishes are made known ahead of time in a 'Do Not Resuscitate order.' these orders are often not followed for various reasons. 
You might think that it is easy for me to say this because I am only with my patients for about a half an hour. Unfortunately, I am dealing with this issue right now. 
During my first summer at my ambulance company, well before I became certified as an EMT, I volunteered a lot to gain experience in EMS. I rode almost every day with two EMTs named Howard and Mike. Without being asked, they became my mentors and showed me everything I had to know about EMS. I give them all the credit in the world for giving me the experience I needed to pass my EMT class and get the jobs I have now. They are both great friends of mine and I look forward to seeing them when I am home on break. 
Unfortunately, Howard is very sick. He has been given about a month to live and all of his treatment options have been exhausted. I saw him last Friday and it is very likely that it will be the last time I see him alive. He looked horrible but, just like him, is still joking and kidding around with everyone. 
I know that Howard does not want any heroic measures taken. He knows his condi• tion and so does his family. He doesn't want to waste away on a respirator or be abused by aggressive resuscitation. Over his lifetime of work in the health care field he has seen many patients go that route and that is the last thing he wants. As much as I want to see him alive and continue to be with us, riding calls and hanging out at the station, I do not want to see a good friend waste away. When his time comes, I hope it comes peacefully and isn't marred by any "heroic" measures. 
With medical technology advancing as fast as it is, we won't be asking "can we keep this person alive?" Instead we will be asking "should we keep this person alive." Sometimes your most important duty to your patient is knowing when to let go. 
Stephen Carroll is a sophomore biology major. He is certified as an emergency med• ical technician and a firefighter in Pennsylvania and Indiana. He can be reached at carroll.52@nd.edu. This column is dedicated to Howard, his friend and mentor. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those o/The Observer. 
Catch us if you can 
We would like to offer a challenge to school special, "Don't Be Somebody's every single individual the University of Foo." Notre Dame hires this weekend whose You may believe that you can scare job it is to stop students, many of whom people from going to the Radio Tower. are legal. from drinking before football This may be true. However, do not lure games. yourselves into the belief that these peo­
We will be conducting many public ple are not drinking just as much offenses this weekend in plain ---
elsewhere, particularly where sight, which we elect to make people who donate signifi­you aware of now. t cant amounts of money to Forget the debauchery the school like to park. of Friday night; you At any rate, we will
ll1

don't have a chance at be breaking almost 
winning that battle every rule of duLac 
against us. At this Saturday, and 
approximately 7 :45 not at all on pur­
a.m. on Saturday, pose. This will be we plan to be due to the fact drinking alcoholic that we are hav­beverages in the ing fun in our alley of Turtle fashion, in accor­Creek. Meet us, dance with many and ticket us, more fans than there. Wait, that's you have oflicers right, normal (and temporary society's laws zil' 
won't allow that. 
Sorry. 
'J:A ~ p~3;;~~;;::;;t

At 10:30 a.m. we ~ will be "shotgunning" ~ ftJ::. ~ Jtheir 18th cans of beer at the ) A Amendment, you will 
infamous "Radio fail at curtailing our Tower." We invite you to drinking this weekend. meet us there also. You and it will happen in a have prided your hired miserable fashion. selves into believing that you So try to ruin our fun, we are somehow guiding this school to dare you. We had better end this 
temperance. You, my misguided friends, letter before we show blatant disregard are pawns in the Office of Residence for University rules and regulations and Life's unpublished plan to exterminate wind up at a hearing. The gauntlet has alcohol from campus. been thrown. 
We can promise you this. We will be conducting many arrestable offenses in Dan Barabas obvious sight during the entire pre-game Ravi Soni period Saturday. You will not make any off-campus of our friends cry, you will not rightfully juniors ticket any one of us, and you will finally Nov. 1, 2001 understand what Mr. T meant in his after 

O
THE 

BSERVER 
• 

page 16 Friday, November 1, 200 I 






By MA TI NANIA Scene Movie Editor 
"Naturally Native," the first feature film produced by, about and starring Native American women, premiered at the 1998 Sundance Film Festival to critical acclaim and is currently being shown at other festivals around the country. 
Made on a shoestring budget of $750,000 and filmed over 19 days. "Native" is worth seeing for its unwavering depiction of a group of Native American sisters who struggle to start their own business. 
Valerie Red-Horse, the film's writer and co-direc­tor, plays Vickie, a hardworking housewife devoted to her husband Steve (Pato Hoffmann) and their two children. Her younger sisters include Karen (Kimberly Norris Guerrero, whom you may remem­ber from the famous "Cigar Store Indian" episode of "Seinfeld"), a recent business school graduate look­ing for a job and Tanya (Irene Bedard, who voiced Disney's "Pocahontas"), the youngest sibling and definitely the most flirtatious. 
When Vickie mentions to them the effectiveness of the family's home remedies, passed down through their father's recipes, they embark upon a plan to get into the natural cosmetics business. Upon doing so, they immediately bump into a veritable obstacle course of red tape and rampant racism. 

Because the three sisters were adopted by a Caucasian, Presbyterian couple (their real parents are dead), the task of proving that they are actual Native Americans is tough, not to mention emotion­ally painful. Since they don't have the right "papers" proving their ancestry, they are unable to qualify for a loan service that assists minority busi­nesses. Other complications prevent them from get­ting funding, as well. The tribe they descend from runs a profitable casino, a fact that turns out to be 
~ 
1 
'' 
~ 
~ 
l
I 
t 
I 
J 
1 
( 
i 
( 
.I 
! 
I 
} 
I 
'I. <
( ( { 
, 
Native 
ericans bring cine1 
"Naturally Native" delivers genuine meaning and strong messages 
-



Photo courtesy of naturallynative.com 
cal qualities (due no doubt to the low budget) don't mea­sure up to anything outside of a student film. 
But Red-Horse .and co-director Jennifer Wynne Farmer do a terrific job of finding 
a delicate balance between the most personal and public trials in this story.
And while the film's 
proceedings come off a bit artificially at 

a problem for one particular loan officer. 
Even though the three sisters have had no ties to the tribe since they were put up for adoption, the officer is still afraid his constituents will look unfa­vorably upon a bank that loans money to a family involved in the gambling business. The negotiations aren't helped much by Vickie's temperament towards bureaucrats, as she readily chastises them once they start giving irrational (and often racist) reasons for not approving the loan. At one point, it seems like the only way the sisters will get the money is if they pretend to be Hispanic. 
As they continue their efforts to get the business up and running, the sisters and their family are faced with a number of events and societal forces that bring up questions of identity and intolerance. The cosmetics line project ends up representing the conviction and persistence of the three sisters in the face of daunting challenges. 
On the surface and as a work of filmmaking. "Naturally Native" doesn't hold up against most theatrical features. The acting and dialogue is sometimes strained and inadequate, the story moves along a little too predictably and the techni­
' 
' 
t 

Photo courtesy of naturallynative.com 
"Naturally Native" is the only film of its kind, produced by an entirely Native American staff, featuring a
' 
story about Native Americans and starring an all Native American cast, including Valerie Red-Horse, left, and Kimberly Norris Guerrero. 
' ( 
( 
It's ltfl/Xlrfrmt Ti, A¼ow W'ltm tim '•if <.'amr-f'h,111.,. 
"Naturally Native" 
. Directed by Valerie Red-Horse 
and Jennifer Wynne Farmer 
. Starring Valerie Red-Horse, 
Kimberly Norris Guerrero, Irene Bedard and Pato Hoffman 
times, the meaning in each scene -whether it's lovemaking, a conversation or a party sequence ­always comes off as genuine. 
"Naturally Native" also presents a range of issues Native Americans must face day-in and day-out, running the gamut from alcoholism, to feminism, to ethnic identity. But all the while, the filmmakers have placed their characters in lives we can all 
relate to. 
More than anything, the three sisters are individ­
uals and do not represent the whole of Nativc 
American culture. They each have their own per­
sonality and characteristic strengths, weaknesses, 
fears and desires. And despite the script's insis­
tence on laying out numerous obstacles for the sis­
ters to overcome (most of them revealing what it's 
like to be Native American), the film reinforces the 
idea that the clear path towards achieving one's 
goals is to take responsibility for yourself, no mat­
ter what barriers exist. 
On top of this deeper purpose. "Native" throws in 
some goofy moments that cause genuine belly 
laughs, such as Steve's tendency to nod off when 
Vickie's making grand plans about the business. 
Red-Horse understands that "issue movies" don't 
have to be 100 percent serious. and consequently, 
her film rolls along nicely without sinking too far 
into pretentiousness and didacticism. 
This film is the culmination of a lot of hard work 
by a fine group of determined artists. And it's easy 
to suspect that perhaps, in the process of bringing 
such a noble effort to the screen and to mass audi­
ences, the filmmakers ran into the same (or at 
least similar) restrictions faced by their fictional 
characters. This experience no doubt informed the 
actual filmmaking process, providing motivation 
for people both behind and in front of the camera. 
Consequently, this small tale of three sisters 
starting their own cosmetics line is successful in 
communicating the lessons learned by each char­
acter. Walking away from this film, the viewer has 
a deeper appreciation for and an understanding of 
the real, "Naturally Native" American perception. 
"Naturally Native" can be seen tonight at 7 p.m. in Carroll Auditorium. 
Contact Matt Nania at nania.4@nd.edu. 
Friday, November 1, 2001 
page 17 


SMC shows "Naturally Native" in honor ofNative American Heritage month 
By MYRA McGRIFF 
Saint Mary's Editor 

When November comes to mind, one may think of the 
holidays. but for one group of people, November marks 
Native American Heritage month. It's a time when non­
native people can reflect and learn from the culture of 
another. A time when Natives can honor the culture 
from which they come. A time when both natives and 
non-natives can come together in place of understand­
ing toward change. 

In observation of Native American Heritage month, 
Saint Mary's kicks off with a one of a kind movie, 
"Naturally Native." The 
movie will be showing
"Naturally Native" 

in Carroll Auditorium 
. Carroll Auditorium 

at 7 p.m. tonight. 
. 7 p.m. tonight Marie Willis. assis­tant director of Saint Mary's Multicultural 
Affairs office heard of "Naturally Native" and knew 
it was a movie to begin a month of 

Native American activities on campus. 
"It's the first film written and produced by native 
women and I thought that would be relevant to Saint 
Mary's," Willis said. 

The film is relevant not only because of the issues within, but also the issues behind the film -the story of how "Naturally Native" came to be and what the movie stands for. 
The Beginning 
It was a writer and production crew with large aspira­tions and a small budget that made the movie "Naturally Native" possible. In an effort to make a movie that chronicled her life. writer Valerie Red-Horse poured her life and money into making "Naturally Native." But before she could put her life on the screen, she needed someone to not only back the movie, but also help pro­duce the movie. 
Seeing that the native community in Hollywood is small, she brought her script to a fellow actress, Yvonne Russo. When she read "Naturally Native," Russo was . honored to jump on board with the project, as an assis­tant producer. Once on the job, she started doing the work of a producer. 
"To make a movie you need to pull into the project a good publicist, director and actors," Russo said. 
Although she came from an acting background, Russo paid attention to the behind-the-scenes tasks and knew what she had to do: publicize. Russo immediately start­ed making what she refers to as "cold calls" to publicity agents to see if they would join the project. However, there was a hitch. Red-Horse productions did not have the money to hire an agent at a regular Hollywood rate. They did secure a top publicity agent, but at half the asking price. The cause behind the picture and the fact that it was the first all native american production com­pelled the agent to provide her services at half price. 
The Production 
After lobbying the movie to different tribal nations, the Pequot Nation of Connecticut fronted the project $750,000, which in Hollywood movie terms is a drop in the bucket. But because of the rarity of the project, actors, movie hands and all working on the film were able to take a cut for the message. Even the rights to use the music in the film were received in the same way. 
When discussing the sound track, Red-Horse wanted the song "Get on your feet," by Gloria Estefan to play at one part of the movie, but with a budget like theirs she didn't think it was possible. That is when Russo got on the phone. _ 
"I started calling the companies on the back of the CD until one of them put me in contact with her office in Miami, Fla.," Russo said. "After a month and a half, we were signing the contracts to use the song without cost." 
After securing the Estefan song, Russo moved up. Now as a co-producer on the film and with funding and pub­licity established, getting "Naturally Native" into theaters would still prove a challenge. 
The crew wrapped up filming in 1999 and Russo, along with Red-Horse, took on the task of peddling the film to festival after festival to get expo­sure. But none of the offers were what they were looking for, so they did it themselves. 
Raising another $300,000 from Red-Horse's mort­gaged house and private donations, Red-Horse Productions had some money to go on what turned into a promotional tour. Russo and Red-Horse took to the air to promote the first movie written by natives and funded by a tribal nation. They got a break when Land Mark Theaters booked ttie movie to play in 10 states and open in Los Angeles. 
"We did all of that from the end of '99 into 2000," Russo said. "We just traveled that whole time showing filmstrips, campaigning the movie, doing interviews. But at the end we just couldn't do it any more." 
The Goals 
Running out of money and ready to jump into a new project, the first feature movie of Red­Horse production was laid to bed. It is now sold on the "Naturally Native" Web site and 
to foreign markets. 
But the experience of producing the movie and the message behind it is the blood that keeps Red-Horse Productions going. Making the Native face a prominent face within Hollywood is just one of those mes­
sages. 
"It's a motivational film showing that we all have obstacles, but it teaches us to continue our goals," says Russo. 
For Red-Horse, the goal was to tell her story about growing up out­side the reservation, her struggles 
with identity and adult life, trying to succeed starting a business but not being considered native. Her goal was to present and break the stereotypes of natives within Hollywood by writing and casting a crew consisting of natives. Her goal is to reach out to tribes in need. And in an effort to do that, Red-Horse Production has set up a non-profit organiza­tion called HAPN (Hollywood Access Program for Natives). The organization takes children from 
reservations interested in film to Hollywood to get hands on experience with the behind the scenes of a film: directing. grips, production. To empower the next generation to be able to tell their own story, Red-Horse productions works to get natives on board. 
"The more natives aboard, we can work as a group to change stereotypes in Hollywood," Russo said. 
So with future projects in the works focusing on natives, short films, a documentary for PBS and another film, "First Plant," to be pitched to HBO, Red-Horse Production has reached .it's own goal -the will of endurance. 
Contact Myra McGriff at mcgrO l 8 l@saintrnarys.edu. 
.,.. 


Photos courtesy of naturallynative_com The Pequot Nation of Connecticut (logo shown above) provided financial backing for the production of "Naturally Native." The film centers around the trials of three sisters, played by producers Kimberly Norris Guerrero, Irene Bedard and Valerie Red-Horse (left to right) who are struggling to start their own business. 
Friday, November 2, 2001 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS 

NBA 
Jordan shows glimpses of old self in first win 
There were some glimpses of Dikembe Mutombo had 19 to returning. Memphis with 17 points and 13 
Associated Press 

the vintage Jordan. points and 16 rebounds, Snow is out up to three rebounds. Midway through the first Derrick Coleman added 18 months with a broken thumb, "It's just learning in general. ATLANTA quarter, he missed a jumper, points and 11 rebounds and and forwards George Lynch and We've got a young team, and 
Michael Jordan resembled but the Wizards corraled the Matt Harpring had 21 points for Tyrone Hill were traded. we've got a lot to learn. We're His Airness more than His loose ball and Whitney fired a the injury-riddled Sixers. "The main thing for us is the going to continue to improve." Oldness. pass to Jordan breaking loose "We were very fortunate to young guys are learning a lot," Stromile Swift had 16 and 
Jordan scored 31 points in under the basket. He flew play them with all their Coleman said. "We played very Michael Dickerson 15 for the 
Game 2 of his latest comeback through the air for the dunk, injuries," Mavericks coach Don hard, but just couldn't come out Grizzlies. 
and showed he hasn't lost the pumping his fist as he landed Nelson said. "There's no way with a victory." Cliff Robinson, who scored 24 winning touch, leading th~ while flashbulbs went off we beat them if they had their points, sparked the Pistons Washington Wizards to a 98-88 throughout the arena. regulars." after they trailed throughout victory over the Atlanta Hawks. Early in the fourth, he "Once we get Allen, Aaron Pistons 90, Grizzlies 80 the second and for most of the After being held to 19 points brought the crowd to its feet and Eric back, we'll be a lot Consider the NBA's newest third. He scored the final nine in his return two nights earlier, again when he blew past Chris stronger," Harpring said. "No city ready for the major points of the third quarter for 
leagues. The Grizzlies may

Jordan mustered some vintage Crawford off the dribble, flew question we needed them Detroit, including a 3-pointer moves and a dunk out of his 38-by Jason Terry along the base­tonight." need a little more time. just before the end of the quar­
\ 
\ year-old body and refused to let line and flipped in a shot with Harpring hit a 19-footer and Jerry Stackhouse scored 13 of ter for a 61-60 lead. the young Wizards falter down his right hand over Nazr Coleman made a short jumper his 34 points in the final 3:38 as "We hurt ourselves," the stretch. Mohammed. as the Sixers closed to 82-77 Detroit beat Memphis, ruining Memphis coach Sidney Lowe The teams managed only two Jason Terry led the Hawks with 7:59 left. But Nowitzki their debut in a new hometown said. "We missed free throws, baskets in the final three min­with 23 points, but this suppos­drilled a 3-pointer to make it that had waited more than turned the ball over and made utes, but one of them -the edly improved team dropped to 88-79, and the Sixers didn't get three decades for such a team. some bad decisions down the clinching play -involved 0-2. Atlanta shot only 42 per­closer than six the rest of the "This franchise is in a great stretch." Jordan. He drew a double-team cent from the field (36-of-86) way. situation," Detroit coach Rick Memphis had a 6-0 spurt 12 feet from the basket and and created few offensive "I know they had a lot of guys Carlisle said. "I think these fans capped by Dickerson's 15-foot­passed to an open Chris chances, managing just eight out, but you've still got to go out have great energy, and I even er near the top of the key for a Whitney, who sank a 3-pointer assists. and play hard," said Tim like the building to come in 70-69 lead with 7:04 to go. with 39 seconds remaining to Hardaway, who had 17 points here for one or two years. I That would be the Grizzlies' give the Wizards a 93-86 lead. and seven assists. thought their team played hard. final lead· as Detroit answered
Mavericks 99, 76ers 92

Jordan shot only 13-of-30 and Dallas took advantage of They've got a lot of young guys with six straight points. 
Allen Iverson jumped off the 
threw up some certified bricks, Philadelphia's inexperienced here." Stackhouse then put away the 
bench, pumped his fist and
but he also had six rebounds, guards by starting Hardaway Maybe it was the excitement victory by scoring 13 of the
implored his teammates to rally
six assists, two steals and only and Nash in the backcourt, and of playing a game that finally final 15 points. His best was a
after they cut the deficit to five 
one turnover. playing Michael Finley at small mattered after relocating dur­3-pointer from the right corner
points midway through the
Jordan's 19 points in the first forward. ing the off-season from with 1:05 left after Dickerson's
fourth.

half were as many as he scored "It always works well for us Vancouver, but the Grizzlies jumper cut the Pistons' lead to
But Philadelphia couldn't do
in the entire home opener when we have two point struggled to find the basket in 81-78.
it without him -and Aaron
against the Knicks, when he guards," Nowitzki said. "They their season opener and The Grizzlies pulled out the
McKie and Eric Snow. 

shot 7-of-21 and missed a 3-both can make a lot of plays couldn't hold onto a 12-point star power to celebrate the first
Dirk Nowitzki had 30 points
pointer with 18 seconds that and get us good shots." lead in the third quarter. major league sports franchise
and 13 rebounds, and Steve
would have tied the game. Iverson, the NBA MVP, still is "We've got to get that out of to call Memphis home, tapping
Nash added 22 points to lead
Jordan actually scored two rehabilitating his right elbow. our game. Once we get a team Isaac Hayes to sing "God Bless

the Dallas Mavericks over the 
more points than the rest of McKie, the league's Sixth Man down by 12, we've got to go America" and Justin
Sixers in the first game at the
Washington's starters com­of the Year, has an injured ahead and put them away," Timberlake of 'N Sync for the
First Union Center since Game
bined in the first halt'. right shoulder. Both are close said Lorenzen Wright, who led national anthem. 
5 of the NBA Finals. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
CLASSIFIEDS The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
ROOMS AVAILABLE AT THE  Houses available for 3-6 students.  WANTED: SPRING BREAKERS!  ADOPTION IS LOVE  
LOST AND FOUND  SOUTH BEND MARRIOTT NOVEMBER 15-18, NOTRE DAME  Good area. ADT, washer-dryer-air. Dave 340-0106.  TICKETS  Sun Coast Vacations wants to send you on Spring Break to Cancun, the  Imagine your precious baby safe  
VS. NAVY WEEKEND. ROOMS  Bahamas, Jamaica or Mazatlan  and happy in a loving family,  
BLOCKED FOR AN ND CONFER­ SPRING BREAK PARTY! Indulge  adored by 2 ND grad parents (a full- 
Found knit cap with Barna on ii  ENCE, EXTRAS AVAILABLE. FOR  in FREE Travel, Drinks, Food and  Student needs 2 tickets for  FOR FREE!  time mom and lawyer dad) and lov•  
Call 4-1627  MORE INFORMATION PLEASE  Parties with the Best DJ's and  Tennessee game. Call Matt at 634­ To find out how, call 1-888-777­ ing playmates in a beautiful home.  
CALL BARB HERB AT 312-243­ celebrities in Cancun, Jamaica,  1854.  4642 or email: sales@suncoastva- We promise to give your child the  
4244 (X4192)  Mazatlan and the Bahamas. Go to  cations.com  life you dream of for them. Medical,  
FOR RENT  Bed 'n Breakfast near ND for grad.  StudentCity.com, call 1-800-293· 1443 or email  BUY-SELL ND FOOTBALL TICKETS  Spring Break with STS, America's  legal, counseling, court-approved living expenses pd. Confidential.  
weekend. Wild Irish Rose Inn. 219­ sales@studentcity.com to find out  277-6619 or 273-3911  #1 Student Tour Operator.  Please call our attorney at (708)  
277-4303  more.  Promote trips on campus earn cash  922-4795  
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM- www.irishroseinn.com  NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TIX  and free trips. Info/Reservations  
PUS  COACH: Need Jr. High boys bas- FOR SALE  HOPING TO ADOPT  
.I  mmmrentals.com  HOUSES FOR RENT: 1) 9-br. $2400/month  ketball coach: responsible and dependable, student or grad to  A.M. 232-2378 P.M. 288-2726  1-800-648-4849 www.ststravel.com  We are a Catholic, fun-loving, well educated and financially secure  
email: mmmrentals@aol.com  2) 5-br. $1500/month  coach 7-8th grade reserve basket­ '  married couple in Northern  
3) 4-br. $1000/month  ball team, Nov 12-Feb 21 ; for south  ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED  0 *ACT NOW! GUARANTEE THE  California. We are homestudy  
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and  side private elementary school,  A.M. -232-2378  BEST SPRING BREAK PRICES!  approved and excited to share our  
Breakfast Inn has space available  Call Bill at 532-1896  located near Scottsdale Mall on  P.M. • 288-2726  SOUTH PADRE, CANCUN,  love with a bay! You can learn  
for football/parent wknds.  Miami St. Must be available for  JAMAICA, BAHAMAS, ACAPUL- more about us at www.parentpro­ 
5 rooms with private baths, $80­ Homes for rent near campus  practices Mon-Thurs from 2:20­ ND tickets for sale. Lowest prices.  CO, FLORIDA & MARDI GRAS.  files.com/profiles/db2288.html or  
((h  $115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road Exit #107. 1-800-418­ furn. 272-6306 Northshore Condo,  3: 15. Game schedule varies with 9­10 games beginning after school at 4 or 5 pm. Paid position. Call 291­4200 to apply.  232-0964. WANTED· ND TICKETS 289-9280  REPS NEEDED. TRAVEL FREE, EARN $$$. GROUP DISCOUNT FOR 6+. 800-838­8203/www.leisuretours.com  call Adoption Connection toll-free at 1-800-972-9225 and ask about Chris and Mary.  
lj~lr  9487 B&B 2-3 ROOMS HOME GAMES 2 Ml NO OF CAMPUS  1428 Marigold Way near ND, 1 bdr, 1 bath, LR, DR & kitchen w/appliances 1 car garage. $69,000 1-bdrm w/ patio, $545/mo. Swm  FOR SALE Selling Varsity Club time share 1  Buying some/ Selling a few extra N.D. Football Tickets. 219-289-8048. Need NDffENN Tix  $300-$800 Scholarships Available per semester! Looking for a job which lets you work around your school schedule?  Byung-Hyun Kim has just sur­passed Bill Buchner as the biggest goat in baseball history. No sleep and no beer make Chris...something ...something  
~~  247-1124  pool, exercise room, laundry tac.  soph. wk. $9,500  272-6306  We hav~ several part-time and full­ 
3.5 miles from campus. Lease  272-1753  time day & evening positions paying  40 hours and counting ...  
Lodging -Bed and Breakfast, 45  expires 5/2002, may be renewed.  Pair of Tenn Tix 4 sale  $7-$11/hr.  
I I  minutes from Notre Dame. T&R  Call Ben Feden  For Sale  271-2970  Stromile Swift had his first double- 
I . I ',I 'I ~(.(  INN Between the lakes. PH (616) 244-9084  (219) 255-2153 Call Doris at 254-1772 for more info  2 Tenn/ND tix call: 274-2211 1999 Toyota RAV4 excellent condi- PERSONAL  We otter the following: ·scholarship money •Flexible Schedules •Paid vacations/holidays  double of the year on his way to an MVP season. Green shirts ...Blue shirts ...wouldn't  
~( < I i I  www.iMbetweenthelakes.com  WANTED  lion -only 10,500 miles, leather, cd changer, manual transmission  SPRING BREAK  •optional Saturdays *Health/life/401 {k)  it be easier if we all just went top• less -that would stand out.  
( ( f I  FREEDOM!  CALL 243-9937  Largest selectioA of Spring Break  •incentives/Raises  
: I  4 and 5 Bdrm Houses, furnished,  Destinations, including Cruises!  •supervisory/Mgt. Positions  The ND dynasty had stumbled, but  
·, I i '. I  sec syst, wastv'dry,  Student wanted! Alum owned 2 story, 5 bdr, 2 bth w/ newer carpet.  Moving out need to sell everything! Great prices! Furniture, kitchen  Rep Positions, Free Drinks and Free trips available.  1-(888) 801.JOBS  it shall return to prominence over UT and OU -even if someone is too  
I . I  PRIME locations, util included. 4 Br  Appl, sec, roof & furnace, 3 lot yd, 1  appliances, tv, bed, and many more  www. EpicuRRean.com  jobs@americallcorp.com  scared to stick with Nebraska ...Roy  
I I  has V-ball &B•ball courts. 233-9947  blk N. of Club 23. 321-217-8451.  stuff. CALL 243-9937  1-800·231 -4-FUN  Just minutes north of campus  Williams, Quentin Jammer ...what!!!  
' ·' I  
.I  
'j  
,i  
y '('·/.,1.,  ·.•  

Friday, November 2, 2001 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 


Campus Ministry 

Dear Alumni & Friends, 
The staff of Campus Ministry extends an invitation to come together and celebrate the Eucharist this weekend. · 
· Notre Dame/Tennessee Football Weekend November 3-4, 2001 
Saturday Vigil Masses 
Basilica 30 minutes after game 
Stepan Center 45 minutes after game 
·sunday Masses 
Basilica 8:00, 10:00 am & 11:45 am 
Sacred Heart Parish Crypt 6:30, 8:00, 9:30 & 11:00 am 
Friday, November 2, 2001 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS 
NFL 

Bettis to test Ravens· 

MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
LaRussa anticipates McGwire retirement 
think some of the owners even Associated Press know about this." La Russa said he had been in ST. LOUIS touch with McGwire as recentlySt. Louis Cardinals manager as Tuesday. La Russa said 
Tony La Russa said he expects McGwire didn't mention retire­slugger Mark McGwire to ment but instead spoke of his retire. belated birthday celebration. 
"I don't 

He turned 38 on Oct. 1. · 
expect him 

La Russa said he believed back," La 
McGwire would make public
Russa told the 

his decision in the next month. St. Louis Post­"He's not going to let this Dispatch from linger," La Russa said. his California La Russa, who has managed
home. "Unti1 McGwire for all but one yearit's official. he 

since McGwire broke into the can change major leagues in 1986, is 
his mind. But 

a·mong those who believes
McGwire
I believe he's McGwire still can play.
sincere in 

McGwire has 583 career home 
this. And he's earned our 
runs, fifth on the career list. 
trust." 

"But who knows what he McGwire recently referred to goes through better than him?" 
himself kiddingly as La Russa's La Russa said. "Nobody deals 
"former first baseman." He 
with the frustration he does. 
strongly hinted of retiring sev­Nobody deals with the rehabili­eral times this year, when he tation and nobody deals with batted just .187 with 29 home the expectations that he does." runs. McGwire labored through the 
This spring, he agreed to a 
2000 season with a bad right two-year, $30 million exten­knee, missing virtually all of 
sion, but La Russa said 
the second half. He had McGwire never signed the doc­surgery to correct patella ten­ument. The extension techni­dinitis but again struggled with 
cally would pay McGwire $14 the knee this season. million next year and $16 mil­McGwire played in four of the lion in 2003, with much of it Cardinals' five playoff gamesdeferred. 
and was 1-for-11 with six 
"He's got ,it in a drawer at strikeouts and a double-play
home," La Russa said. "I don't grounder. 

i 
' 
~ 
, 

~ 
)r 
>' 
> 
.),I 
•~ 
~ 
~­
.
r 
V 
~ 
V 
v 
~ 
)( 
V 
Ii 
.. 
•
' 
f 
•I ~­
V 
~ 
~ .,
• 
V 
., 
' 
ii 
Associated Press 

PITTSBURGH 
The Steelers didn't need Baltimore linebacker Ray Lewis to challenge· them to run the ball. They were going to do it anyway. 
The Ravens' top-ranked rushing defense hasn't allowed a 100-yard rusher in 44 games, and Pittsburgh star Jerome Bettis hasn't had a 100-yard effort against them since 1997. 
Lewis suggests Sunday's game in Pittsburgh won't be any different, even if the Steelers (5-1) have won five in a row by running the ball better than any other NFL team. 
"We just don't believe in our hearts -deep in our hearts -that a back can come out and rush 25 or 30 times and just pound us and get 100 yards," Lewis said. "If they come out and try to establish him with the run, that's something we don't believe in.'~ 
The Steelers are certain they will do exactly that. 
"He's got the right to say that, just like we have the right to say we will rush for 100 yards," Steelers guard Alan Faneca said. "That's their mentality. That's our mentality." 
The Steelers average 186.8 yards rushing, with Bettis 

Anew ~ame ~Ian far footoall wee~enus ~mm t~e ~olle~e ofArts anu letters 
averaging 102, with four 100­yard games in his last five. Bettis needs 101 yards to move past former Notre Dame teammate Ricky Watters and become the NFL's 12th leading career rusher. 
But the Ravens haven't given up more than 77 yards to any back this season, and Bettis has had less success ·against them than any other AFC Central team. 
The NFL's leading rusher over the last five seasons, Bettis was held to 8 and 65 yards by. Baltimore last sea­son, 46 and 39 yards in 1999 and 41 in his only game against them in 1998. 
Despite the Ravens' proven ability to physically contain the run with their oversized defensive line and fast and physical group of linebackers, the Steelers intend to approach this game no differ­ently than any other. 
"They want to do the same thing against us; they want to stop the run," Bettis said. "Nobody's been able to crack that front seven of theirs, and . we're going to have a tough time doing it. But we've got to go out there and do what we've always done and that's run the football." 
Bettis was held to 62 yards Monday in a 34-7 victory over Tennessee, but scored two touchdowns in the victory, as the Steelers had their best run-pass balance of the sea­son. 
Second-year receiver Plaxico Burress' 151-yard receiving game was easily the best of his career, and Kardell Stewart passed for 232 yards and a touchdown after being limited to 100 
yards by Tampa Bay  the  
week before.  
"Whatever they  come  out  

with, we're prepared for," Lewis said. 
The Steelers would take a sizable step toward winning their first AFC Central title since 1997 by beating the Ravens, but Baltimore (4-3) could substantially close the gap by winning. The two teams play again Dec. 16 in Baltimore. 
"It's too early to eliminate anybody at this point, but clearly, if we have any inten­tions of trying to win the divi­sion, then we're going to have to come out with a win this week," Ravens coach Brian B·illick said. "The Steelers are playing very well and, as I look at the rest of their schedule, I'm not sure who else can beat them." . The Steelers play six of their final 10 at home, facing division rivals Baltimore, Cleveland and Jacksonville there, plus Minnesota, the New York Jets and Detroit Lions. 

''Newman and Ireland: Converting the Empire" 
with Seamus Deane Keough Professor of Irish Studies 11 a.m. Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
The inaugural Saturday Scholar Series ends Nov. 17 with a presentation at 11 a.m. by 
F. Clark Power, professor of psychology 
"Moral Education at the Crossroads" Hesburgh Center Auditorium 

Friday, November 2, 2001 page 21
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

November 2, 2001 
Dear Members of the Notre Dame Community, 
A home football game brings an air of excitement and festivity to campus; regrettably, it also brings a dramatic increase in problems related to alcohol. While inost fans, students and guests celebrate responsibly, for some a home football game becomes an opportunity to engage i:: behavior that would not be tolerated at any other time on our campus, or anywhere else. Some students, guests, fans and alumni conduct themselves in ways that are simply unacceptable. Unfortunately, drinking to the point of intoxication or physical illness, participation in dangerous drinking games, and in~idents of public indecency are hallmarks of some tailgate parties. At Notre Dame, we should not accept as excuses that such conduct goes on elsewhere, that it is seen frequently among college-age students, that it is part of a "tradition" or that it is somehow a "rite of passage." 
In recent weeks, there have been several articles and letters to the editor in The Observer and in 9ther campus publications about the University's increased emphasis on the renewed enforcement of long­standing policies designed to address alcohol use and abuse on football weekends. While we welcome campus dialogue about this issue, it is the hope of Office of Student Affairs that the discussion will take place within the proper context. The use and abuse of alcohol is the most serious health and safety issue on college campuses across the country, and this is true at Notre Dame as well. 
The Notre Dame Security/Police Department, assisted by members of local and state law enforcement agencies, will continue to enforce University regulations and Indiana state law related to alcohol use at home football games, in an effort to ensure that these weekends continue to be what they should be, celebrations of the University's proud traditions and rich history. 
We hope that all members of the University community will cooperate with these efforts by celebrating responsibly and appropriately, in accordance with University regulations and state law. We ask for your help and support so that, in keeping with the University's mission statement, we can truly be a community which fosters "those disciplined habits of mind, body and spirit which characterize educated, skilled and free human beings.'~ 

(Rev.) Mark L. Poorman, C.S.C. Vice President for Student Affairs 

Friday, November 2, 200 I

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS 
NFL 

State officials won't penalize Vikings after death 
Associated Pres& 

EDEN PRAIRIE, Minn. 
No state labor citations will be issued against the Minnesota Vikings in the heatstroke death of offensive tackle Korey Stringer, who died Aug. 1, one day after he was stricken during the Vikings' training camp in Mankato. 
The Minnesota Department of Labor and Industry said the tem­perature and humidity in Mankato and player activities on July 31 did not exceed published occupational health guidelines. 
The heat index was 99 on July 31 at the time Stringer sought a trainer's help. 
MLB-

Williams takes job with Astros 
Associated Press 

,, HOUSTON
,,f 
Jimy Williams was quick to accept the Houston Astros' offer to manage the club ­and sidestep a question about the team's play­off woes under Larry Dierker. 
Williams. fired by the Boston Red Sox in August. became the Williams Astros' 13th manager. a day after agree­ing to a three-year contract with general manager Gerry Hunsicker. 

"Gerry called and offered the job and I said I'd sleep on it," Williams said. "I called him back in 45 min­utes and told him I was a fast sleeper." 

Dierker resigned two weeks ago after leading the Astros to four division titles in five years but losing in the first round of the playoffs each time. 
Williams, who led the Red Sox to the playoffs in 1998 and 1999. wouldn't promise the Astros would improve on their 2-12 playoff record under Dierker. 
"If you start making state­ments that you can't back up, you're in trouble," Williams said. 
Williams was fired during his fifth season as Red Sox manager. He had a 414-352 record. The Red Sox dropped out of first place in the AL East after the All-Star break and Williams was dismissed after the team lost six of seven games. 
Williams had a celebrated feud with Red Sox outfielder Carl Everett during his final season in Boston and Dierker departed saying he couldn't get some of the Astros to buy into his managing ideas. 
Williams would offer no clues how he would handle the Astros clubhouse. 
"We all have challenges and that's great because it means we're still alive," Williams said. "Any chal­lenge that we have will remain in the clubhouse. That's where it will stay." 
He did offer a hint. 

"Be on time, play hard, don't embarrass yourself or the Houston Astros, you're probably pretty safe." Williams said. 
"When you talk to players, here's how they think: Something happens during the course of the game and maybe they don't necessarily agree with the manager did, they'll say to themselves, 'What is the hell is he doing?' 
"But you know, I say to them, 'You know what, sometimes I watch you guys play out there and I say, 'What the hell is he doing?' So we're equal. We 're just trying to win. The main thing is to be solid in the club­house. Keep things together in the clubhouse." 
Hunsicker thinks the Astros are close to being a successful playoff team. 
"There are not many teams out there that have done what we've done," Hunsicker said. "So we needed some­body to take us to that next level." 
The Red Sox reached the American League champi­onship series in 1999, where they lost to the New York Yankees. Williams was AL manager of the year in 1999. 
In his previous job, Williams was fired by the Toronto Blue Jays in his fourth season as their man­ager in 1989, when the team started 12-24. 
Hunsicker praised Williams' ability with young players, which fits in with the Astros youthful roster. 
"He still feels you can teach at the major league level," Hunsicker said. "So many managers talk about what you can't do as opposed to Jimy, who feels you can still teach in the big leagues and he talks about what he will do. 
"My goal is to give Jimy the right kind of players and if we both do our jobs, we can go to the World Series." 
The Astros also interviewed third-base coach Mike Cubbage, Double-A Round Rock manager Jackie Moore. Triple-A New Orleans man­
ager Tony Pena, former major league manager Jim Fregosi, and Milwaukee 

bench c~~,~~/4~~z,~m 
t~l / J._ • } ./ •.., 
, 0 

5minute;:..:~ 
f'Ion1 -CIUTFICIIIT 
Campus~
ColdW..,,_&pf,rm 
Investigators found that the Vikings had provided training about heat-stress hazards as required by state law to players, coaches and trainers. They also found the Vikings had various methods available to guard against the heat, including water, sports drinks and a first­aid trailer kept at 62 degrees. 
State officials discussed the findings with the Vikings at the team's headquarters Thursday. 
Vikings officials have main­tained that no one was to blame for Stringer's death, which hap­pened on the second day of training camp. 
"It was a very comprehensive investigation that confirmed our beliefs that we run an exemplary camp, with player safety fore­most in our minds," Mike Kelly, a Vikings vice president, said of the report. 
An autopsy determined that the 27-year-old, 335-pounder had a body temperature of 108 degrees when he arrived at the hospital. 
CHIWA 


INTERNATIONAL.a STUDY PROGRAMS 
INFORMATION MEETING: Monday NOVEMBER 5, 2001 244 DEBARTOLO 5:00 PM 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: DECEMBER 1, 2001 

.. 


Friday, November 2, 2001 page 23
The Observer . SPORTS 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Duke claims No. 1 in preseason poll 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Defending national cham­pion Duke continued its run of preseason honors Thursday, receiving the top 
ranking in the  ESPN/USA  
Today coaches'  basketball  
poll.  

The Blue Devils collected 30 of 31 first-place votes and 77 4 points from a panel of Division I coaches, which thinks Duke's returning corps and a freshman sen­sation outweigh the loss of Shane Battier. 
Illinois received the remaining first-place vote and is second with 698 points, followed by Maryland, Kentucky and Florida. UCLA, Kansas, Iowa, Missouri and St. Joseph's round out the top 10. 
Virginia is 11th and is fol­lowed by Michigan State, Memphis, Georgetown, Stanford, Boston College, Temple, Oklahoma State, North Carolina and Syracuse. 
The last five are Indiana, Texas, Oklahoma, Southern California and Fresno State. 
The preseason opens Thursday with the Coaches vs. Cancer Classic at Madison Square Garden in New York. Temple will play Florida, and Maryland will meet 2001 national runner­up Arizona. 
Arizona fell out of the top 


out 
As low As 

It'll Get Your Motor Bonnin'! 
~:-, I J 0 
J-· 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You con bank on us to be better 

219/239-6611 • www.ndfcu.org 
~•Annual Percentage Rale. As low as 6.75%APR is available for various financing terms. Rates subject to change without ~notice. Cer1ain restnct1ons rray apply. No refinances of Notre Dame Federal Credit Union loans apply. Independent of the University. 
25 after losing a good por­tion of its team to the NBA. 
The Blue Devils already have been picked to win the Atlantic Coast Conference championship. Junior point guard Jason Williams was selected as the ACC Preseason Player of the Year. 
Williams is back to lead a team that went 35-4 last season, posting an 87-72 win over Arizona in the national title game in Minneapolis. 
The Blue Devils have one obvious absence from their most recent championship 

· team in Battier, who won· the Naismith Award as the nation's best player and was named Most Outstanding Player of the Final Four. 
Duke also lost senior Nate James but hopes to add touted freshman shooting guard Daniel Ewing to a rotation that includes Williams, Carlos Boozer, Chris Duhon and Mike Dunleavy. 
However, the Blue Devils are not in the poll's domi­nant league. The Big 12 Conference has five teams in the top 25, while the ACC, Big Ten and Big East have four apiece. 
Kansas is the top Big 12 team in the poll at No. 7 and is joined by No. 9 Missouri, No. 18 Oklahoma State, No. 22 Texas and No. 23 Oklahoma. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Tar Heels manage 13 rushing yards in loss to Bulldogs 
Associated Press 

ATLANTA 
Julius Peppers was sur­prised Georgia Tech ran at will on North Carolina's defense. 
Joe Burns wasn't. 

Burns ran for a career-high 198 yards and a touchdown and the Yellow Jackets (No. 21 ESPN/USA Today; No. 23 Associated Press) held North Carolina (No. 22 Associated Press) to 13 yards rushing in a 28-21 victory Thursday night. 
"To be honest, I felt going into the game that we could run the ball with success against North Carolina," Burns said. "We certainly proved we could." 
He broke his previous career high of 179 yards, set against Maryland in 1998. Burns' scoring run, a 51­yarder midway through the fourth quarter, gave the Yellow Jackets a 28-14 lead. He broke a tackle at the 20 and outran the defense for Georgia Tech' s longest scor­ing play of the season. 
Burns gained 40 yards on the final drive, running for three first downs and forcing the Tar Heels to use their final two timeouts. The Yellow Jackets converted 10 of 17 third-down attempts in the game, including five in a row in the second half. 
"They kind of picked us 
apart," said Peppers, North 
Carolina's dominating defen­
sive end who was held to two 
tackles. "They were running 
where they wanted to. We 
didn't think that could ever 
happen." 
George Godsey threw for 
187 yards and a touchdown 
and ran for another as 
Georgia Tech (6-2, 3-2 
Atlantic Coast Conference) 
snapped the Tar Heels' five­
game winning streak. 
'Tm happy for the players 
because they've come under 
some undue criticism and 
really shouldn't have," 
Yellow Jackets coach George 
O'Leary said. "We've played 
together this year and some­
times they haven't played 
smart, but we've played to 
win." 
North Carolina quarterback 
Darian Durant played the 
entire game for the first time 
this season and threw for 286 
yards and three touchdowns. 
He had split time this season 
with Ronald Curry, but Curry 
sat out with a hamstring 
injury. 
"That hurt," Durant said of 
the defeat. "We haven't had 
this feeling in quite a while. 
We had big dreams for this 
year." 
The Tar Heels (5-4, 4-2), 
who dropped 11/2 games 
behind Maryland in the ACC, 
closed to seven points on 
Durant's 21-yard scoring toss 
to Sam Aiken late in the 
fourth quarter. 
North Carolina had aver­aged 166 yards rushing dur­ing its winning streak but ·never got on track, failing to gain yardage on any running play in the second quarter. Durant was the leading rush­er, gain 12 yards on five car­
ries. 
"We want to run the ball, 
and we know we can most of 
the time," said Tar Heels 
coach John Bunting. "We had 
some troubles initially getting 
lined up and doing things the 
way we wanted, which 
caused our rhythm to be off." 
Jonathan Smith caught 
eight passes for 82 yards, 
including a 17-yard touch­
down early in the second 
quarter to give Georgia Tech 
a 7-0 lead. Durant's first 
scoring toss, a 30-yarder to 
Kory Bailey, tied the game at 
7. 
Luke Manget, who missed five field goals in the Yellow Jackets' last game, missed a 32-yarder in the second quarter. but added two field goals for a 13-7 halftime lead. 
Cougars keep on winning 
Associated Press 
PROVO, Utah 
With Luke Staley and Brandon Doman putting up big numbers, BYU is still steamrolling opponents. Good thing, too, because the Cougars have been close to awful on defense. 
Staley ran for 196 yards and five touchdowns, while Doman threw for 284 yards and a TD and ran for 165 yards and two TDs as No. 13 BYU beat Colorado State 56­34 on Thursday night. 
The Cougars (9-0, 5-0 Mountain West) remained unbeaten and helped coach Gary Crowton beat his old team. He was a quarterback, defensive back and returned punts at Colorado State (4-5, 3-2) from 1977-78. 
Staley's 20-yard TD run in the third quarter made him BYU's career touchdown leader, breaking the record of 40 set by Jamal Willis from 1991-94. Staley has 42 TDs in three seasons, including 22 this fall. 
He added a 3-yard run with 
2:21 to play, the second time 
, this season he's had five TDs in a game. After the ensuing kickoff, BYU fans chanted "B­C-S! B-C-S!" in reference to long-shot hopes about reach­ing a BCS bowl game. To get there the Cougars will need to play better defense, especially against the run. BYU was just plain awful this week, giving up 237 rush­
" ing yards to Henri Childs and 174 to quarterback Bradlee Van Pelt. Last week, the Cougars beat San Diego State 59-21 but let running back Larry Ned go for 239 yards. But tough as it was for the BYU defense against Colorado State, the Cougars came up big in the fourth quarter. BYU led 49-34 and Colorado State faced fourth­and-1 when Van Pelt pitched to Childs, who had an open track to the end zone but fum­bled. Linebacker Justin Ena recovered for BYU. The next time the Rams had the ball, Brett Keisel tipped a pass that Ryan Denney caught for an interception. Colorado State was driving again with less than a minute to play when Kurt Elliott caught Van Pelt' s third interception. The victory put BYU firmly in control of the Mountain vVest race. The Cougars also avenged a 45-21 loss last sea­son, a game where the Hams built a 45-0 halftime lead and were still throwing in the fourth quarter. Staley took care of the retri­bution, scoring twice on 2­yard runs in the first quarter and adding a 44-yard TD in the second. 
On the play that set the BYU record, Staley took the snap at quarterback with Doman on the wing as a receiver. Staley darted through a big hole in the middle and got a great clearing block from Toby Christensen. 



Associated Press 
ARLINGTON, Texas 
John Hart, the executive who turned the Cleveland Indians from one of baseball's worst teams into a perennial con­tender, was hired as general manager of the struggling Texas Rangers. 
Hart takes over a team that has finished in last place for two straight years, even after spend­ing $252 million on shortstop Alex Rodriguez. 
Rangers owner Tom Hicks hired Hart expecting him to pro­vide a similar transformation for Texas, which has won three divi­sion titles but never a playoff series. 
"There's a core and a nucleus of quality players that are in place," Hart said. "With the proper leadership, proper tweaking of personnel, I don't think this is a club that's far away from contending." 
The 53-year-old Hart spent 10 seasons with the Indians, who made the playoffs six of the last seven years and reached the World Series in 1995 and 1997. Before Hart came, Cleveland's last postseason appearance was in 1954. ' 
"John has a very successful track record," Hicks said. "Cleveland we think of as a perennial champion. When John joined them they had been a last-place club for many years." 
Hicks fired GM Doug Melvin on Oct. 7, ending a seven-year run that included the only three divi• sion championships in team his­tory. 
Hart said he won't have a "go for broke, win it all" attitude for the 2002 team. 
"This club can contend if the right things happen, but the real focus on this is that we become perennial contenders," Hart said. "If that's tarts to happen next season, that's fabulous." 
The Rangers also hired Grady Fuson. the Oakland scouting director who had been consid­ered a top candidate for the GM job. Fuson will be assistant GM for scouting and player develop­ment. 
Hart had announced during the first week of the season that he was leaving as Cleveland's GM on Nov. 1. 
Hicks also considered Florida president and general manager Dave Dombrowski. Hicks can­celed a second interview that had been scheduled for Thursday. Dombrowski is sched­uled to interview Friday for the GM job in Toronto. 
Another contender was assis­tant GM Dan O'Brien. He'll remain in that position, oversee­ing baseball operations. 
Melvin oversaw the building of the Texas teams that won the AL West in 1996, '98 and '99 butX< I·. ! lost in the playoffs to the New 


Cold Weather Experts 
5minutes /rom Campus 

Call 259-1000 far more details 
page 24 
MLB 

Rangers hire 
Hart as new GM 
York Yankees each time. 

After finishing last in 1999, the Rangers added Rodriguez with a record 10-year contract even though pitching was a bigger need. Rodriguez hit .318 with an AL-leading 52 homers and 133 runs scored, but Texas had a 
5.71 ERA that was the worst in the majors -for the second straight year. 
"Certainly if there is a focus, it is going to be on pitching and how to enhance the pitching staff," Hart said. "I don't think we've arrived a decision as to what to, how to." 
The Rangers went 73-89 and finished 43 games behind AL West champion Seattle. They avoided their second straight 90­loss season and prevented the Mariners from reaching a record 117th victory with a 4-3 win on the final day. 
While some personnel changes are expected, Hart said he plans to retain manager Jerry Narron. 
Narron took over when Johnny Oates resigned under pressure May 4 after an 11-17 start and is signed through the 2003 season. The Rangers went 62-72 under Narron, the former third-base coach who had never been a manager before. 
Hart compared Narron to Mike Hargrove, the first manager he hired in Cleveland. Hargrove won 721 games with the Indians from 1991-99, and was part of their last two World Series. 
Hart also will have to decide on how to handle the future of 10-time All-Star catcher Ivan Rodriguez. Rodriguez hasn't even finished the last two sea­sons because of injuries, this year because of surgery for ten­dinitis in his left knee after hit­ting .308 with 25 homers and 65 RBIs in 111 games. He could become a free agent after next season. 
"I don't see that as first order of business. I see it as a part of our winter," Hart said. "At some point, we'll define our level of interest in an extension, we'll define our options and we'll have a conversation with his agent." 
The Obj·erver . SPORTS Friday, November 2, 2001 
PGA 

Woods swings injured 
Associated Press 

HOUSTON Tiger Woods never looked so mortal. 
He had to squat to perform the most simple task, sticking a tee in the ground. An easy prac­tice swing w a s accompa­nied by a grimace. W o o d s took a big rip with his driver and pursed his lips, trying to hold back a scream of pain. 
"It's [tough] getting old," he joked when he was done. 
This was no laughing mat­ter. For the first time in his young career, Woods was faced with an injury that is the most common in golf and has slowed so many careers -back problems. 
He injured his lower 


"The hardest part is 
right back on have to the eve of the where you ·re standing rotate and 
T o u r around. I'm fine bend over. 
Championship Those are
walking."

while getting the things worked on in that are the PGA Tour Tiger Woods integral fitness trailer. parts of our
goHer

"I've never had this prob­lem. This is a first," Woods said. "I don't see how it can­not concern me." 
Woods declined to give details on how the injury occurred, but the impact was clear throughout the first round of the Tour Championship. 
He grabbed his lower right back after a big swing on No. 2, mumbled to himself before just about every swing and sat on a cooler during a lengthy wait on No. 9. 
Perhaps the most telling impact of the injury came on No. 6, a 430-yard hole where his preferred tee shot was a hard 3-wood with a slight fade. After standing over the ball, Woods backed off and called over his caddie, asking for a driver. 

"I can't hit anything hard," he told caddie Steve Williams. 
Woods finished with a 1­under 70, five strokes back of Bernhard Langer and Frank Lickliter, still in range of winning at Champions Golf 
Club for the second time in a 
row. 
If he does, both victories 
will be marked by injuries. 
Two years ago at the Tour Championship, Woods' tee shot landed right in front of a softball-sized rock on the 15th hole of the opening round. He tried to hit through the rock, and suf­fered a stinger to his left 
wrist. 
That was the most pain he has felt on the golf course, but he conceded that Thursday was his most mis­erable playing a full round of golf. 
"I definitely feel it." he said. "The hardest part is where you 're standing around. I'm fine walking. The problem is when I 
game." The tim­ing is ironic. 
About four hours before his back flared up Wednesday, Woods was in the clubhouse talking about one of the most incredible streaks that belongs to Jack Nicklaus ­146 consecutive starts in the major championships. 
"It's amazing that he could play that long without any kind of serious injury," Woods said. 
How serious his back injury is remains to be seen. 
Woods was shifting his feet from side to side, like a kid learning his first dance steps, trying to stay loose with two dozen reporters surrounding him when he broke away in the middle of a question. 
"I've got to go." he said, starting to feel more pain from standing around. 
throughout the weekend. 
Open Friday and Saturday D.ning ND. Home Football Weekends. 

Everyone Welcome 
Live Music Fridays, 2 -
6p.m. 
Grilled Burgers, Brats, and Other Specialties Cold Beverages & Spirits 

next to the N.D. Bookstore. 
60" Screen TV's Fully Enclosed Tent 
He left to see Tom Boers, the back specialist known for working with other PGA Tour players like Fred Couples, Ernie Els and Davis Love III. 
"I do know that it's sore, it does hurt," Woods said. ''I'll get it fixed tonight, and hope­fully tomorrow rII be 100 percent." 
Woods turned pro in 1996 and has been relatively injury-free except for the rock incident at Champions two years ago. 
This year has been differ­ent. 
In February. he strained ligaments in his right knee when an overzealous fan try­ing to get an autograph stepped on his heel. Woods also had an Achilles' injury during the U.S. Open that he has declined to discuss. 
Now comes the scariest 
injury of all. 
The back is the most sus­ceptible area for professional golfers, and there is a history of players whose careers were affected by that injury. The most notable is Couples, who first experienced back problems· after winning the 1992 Masters and has been plagued by problems ever since. 
Els encountered back prob­lems the week before he went to The Olympic Club in 1998 to defend his U.S. Open title. A year ago, David Duval .had a back sprain during the British Open that knocked him out for 10 weeks. 
Woods thought it was a major achievement to post a 70. 
"The way I was feeling today, I was lucky to end up under par," Woods said. "I have a shot to win this tour­nament." 
Woods did not rule out withdrawing from the tour­nament if the pain persists, although that's not likely. Despite a day of pain, his greatest grimace came on No. 17 when he tried to punch a 3-wood from the tee. 
Why would he try such a shot when he was in that kind of pain? 
''I'm as stubborn as they come," he said. 
631-2000 
www.themorrisinn.com 

, ,i -!: 

Friday, November 2, 2001 page 25 
The Observer . SPORTS' 
WORLD SERIES 

Kim earns goat status by giving up another <linger 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK Another jolt of midnight magic, anoth­er stunning World Series win for the 
•New York Yankees. 

Scott Brosius saved the Yankees with a 
two-out, two-run homer in the ninth 
inning, then Alfonso Soriano singled 
home the winning run in the 12th early 
Friday to give New York a 3-2 victory 
over the Arizona Diamondbacks and a 
three games-to-two edge. 

For the second straight night, the 
Yankees were one out away from defeat 
when they victimized closer Byung-Hyun 
Kim. 

And once Brosius tied it with the two­
run shot, there seemed to be little doubt 
about the eventual outcome. 

Chuck Knoblauch opened the 12th 
with his first hit of the series and moved 
up on Brosius' sacrifice. Soriano fol­
lowed with a single off losing pitcher 
Albie Lopez, and Knoblauch scored 
ahead of right fielder Reggie Sanders' 
throw. 

Sanders had a shot at Knoblauch, but 
his one-hop throw could not be handled 
cleanly by catcher Rod Barajas. 

A night earlier, Kim served up a tying, 
two-run homer in the ninth to Tino 
Martinez. In the 10th, Jeter homered off 
Kim to win it. 

Soriano made a key defensive play in 
the 11th as the Yankees won their 
Series-record 10th straight home game. 
Sterling Hitchcock got the victory. 

Now, the three-time defending champi­
ons will try to wrap up another crown in 
Game 6 Saturday night at Bank One 
Ballpark. 

Randy Johnson, who pitched a three­
hit shutout in Game 2 for Arizona, once 
again will start against Andy Pettitte. 
Arizona's Bob Brenly, second-guessed for pulling Curt Schilling and bringing in Kim with a late lead a day earlier, was not afraid to make a similar move. 
The rookie manager yanked Miguel Batista with a 2-0 lead in the eighth after the Yankees put two on with two outs. The strategy worked when Greg Swindell got Tino Martinez on a harmless fly ball. 
But the sellout crowd of 56,018 roared as the Yankees came to bat in the ninth, and the noise level got even louder when the fans realized Kim was coming in to pitch. 
Jorge Posada gave a sign of things to come, leading off with a double. Kim retired Shane Spencer on a grounder and struck out Knoblauch, bringing up Brosius. 
At that point, Barajas walked toward the young closer and held up a finger, seeming to indicate: one more out. 
But Brosius, the 1998 World Series MVP launched a long drive to left field and immediately raised his arm in the air. Kim couldn't believe it, and crouched on the mound for a full 30 sec­onds as the ballpark erupted. 
Brenly did not move. From the dugout, he stared glassy-eyed at the wild scene unfolding in front of him. 
Then, as Barajas rushed to the mound. Brenly slowly walked out and signaled for reliever Mike Morgan. 
Before this week, only three times had there been a two-out homer in the bot­tom of the ninth that tied or won a Series game. Now, add two more to the record book -and add to the Yankees' mys­tique. 
Arizona had its chance in the 11th against Mariano Rivera, loading the bases with the help of Matt Williams' first sacrifice bunt since 1990. 
Soriano, playing back in hopes of a double play, saved the Yankees with a diving catch on Sanders' liner up the middle. Rivera ended the threat by get­ting Mark Grace on an easy grounder to Brosius at third. 
Batista, a 30-year-old journeyman, outpitched Mike Mussina and kept the Yankees in their hitting funk. 
A few days ago, after Schilling and Johnson excelled, Batista chafed at the notion that Arizona was merely a two­man team. Yet on this night, Batista and Barajas were almost too much for the Yankees. 

Barajas, a backup who hit just .160 
this season, and Steve Finley homered in the fifth inning for a 2-0 lead. 
Finley hit his first career postseason homer, leading off with a drive against the facing of the upper deck in right field. 


University of No1 re Dame International Study Program in 
Angers, France 
'"Courses! of Course" 
INFORMATION 
MEETING 
With Prof. Paul McDowell 
and returnees of the program 
econd meetin with us! 
Tuesday, November 6, 2001 
7:15 PM 210 DeBartolo 

Application Deadline: Dec. 1, 2001 Academic Year 2002-2003 Fall 2002-Spring 2003 Applications available: www.nd.edu/~intlstud 
·--·-·-·------------.,_------------------------------------------------------.. 
Friday, November 2, 2001 

page 26 The Observer . SPORTS 

MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL PLAYOFFS 
Dillon QB: 'We don't want that to happen again' 
..._ and No. 5 Sorin reached the 19-0. Freshman quarterback their lack of knowledge about by the defensive line," said
. Top-seeded Big 
playoffs despite not playing to Jimmy Costanzo has mixed the Green Wave. Keough captain and quarter­Red hopes to their potential during the regu­feelings about the game. "We haven't got to see back Andy Hess. "This mightavoid another first lar season. On Sunday, both "It is pretty cool to be in the them," said Morlok. "But we put a lot of pressure on our 
teams look to finally play their playoffs but I'm kinda ner­are looking forward to the corners, but we have a pretty
round upset 

best. vous," he said. "I'm excited game after a good week of good secondary. We're going to 
"We just have to make sure and you always dream of play­practice." try to, stop the run first and By MRON RONSHEIM, JOE we come out and play four ing in the Stadium." Fisher is in the same boat as make them try to beat us with HETTLER, MA TT LOZAR, quarters," said Alumni senior With this week's game three Keenan with not having a lot of the pass." and PHIL KOESTERER co-captain Nick Linstroth. "I weeks after both teams last information about their oppo­Chief among the Keough line­Sports Writers feel like we've played really played, the layoff might be a nent. backers trying to stop Travis 
well in every single game but concern. However. Keenan "We have never scouted Smith will be Mike Perrone, we haven't been able to play welcomed the rest. them," said Costanzo. "There the Kangaroosa only senior. 
When No. 1 Dillon faces No. 
four solid quarters yet." "It [time off] was actually a is a little intimidation since "He's made a lot of plays for8 Zahm at 1 p .m. at Riehle 
fields this Sunday, it will be all Sorin senior co-captain Luke plus for us," said Morlok. "We they are the defending us, and he doesn't want this to Burke feels the same about his got Ryan Crochet, one of our champs, but I think we will be be his last game," said Hess. 
too familiar for the Big Red. 
team. tackles, back from a separated okay." The Siegfried defense willLast year Dillon, after darn­
"I'd say we didn't play as shoulder." mix it up to try to stop Hessing the No.1 seed, was upset by 
well as we could have during For Fisher, the time off may and the Keough offense, which
Keenan in the second round of No. 2 Siegfried vs. No. 7 Keough
the regular season," said be more of a problem. is notorious for its adjust­
the playoffs. Dillon hopes to Survival will be the name of 
erase those memories this Burke. "But [the regular sea­"Guys got out of their routine the game when the No. 2 ments. son] was still a good tune-up over break," said Costanzo. "Each game we try to open
post-season. Siegfried Ramblers meet the
for the playoffs." "We have had a lot of school up the offense more and show
"Last year we were definitely No. 7 Keough Kangaroos at 2
During the regular season, conflicts and it has been tough a more diversified look," said
looking past Keenan," said p.m. Sunday on North Riehle Dillon senior quarterback Tayt teams tried to stop Sorin 's to have practices. But I'm not Field. Hess. "We try to see what's Odom. "We don't want that to strong passing attack by con­too worried." In this match-up, the burden working in each game." 
taining junior quarterback Keenan's defense gave up The Rambler defense, how­
happen again." will be on Keough to stop the 
Dillon is• taking a different . Greg Carney and sophomore less than ten points in three of blistering Siegfried offense, ever, will try to be just as flexi­approach this year as they try receiver Tom Doar. But the their games. Junior lineback­which has outscored opponents ble to stop the Kangaroo to reach their goal of playing in Dawgs will be trying a little ers Dave Cantos and Andy 61-7 on the way to a 4-0 offense. 
different approach for this Groebner have led the defen­"We show a lot of different
Notre Dame Stadium. record. 
game. sive unit. While he views the fronts and blitzes," said
"We gotta take it one game Two specific targets will be 
at a time," said Dillon senior "The first thing we need to defense to be the strength of quarterback Rob Plumby and Plumby. "Whatever a team 
do is take away the run," said the team, Morlok knows a shows, w~ try to adjust to, and
defensive lineman Ryan running back Travis Smith,
Linstroth. "They can challenge strong effort is necessary. Keough adJusts their offense a
Hernandez. "For the seniors it who ran for 100 yards and 
our defensive backs with the "Our defense has been solid," lot, so we'll adjust to their
is our last time that we have a three touchdowns in the chance to play in the stadium. pass as long as they want to." he said. "We are concerned Ramblers most recent win adjustments." It is a dream for a lot of us." Alumni will attempt to use about them putting points on against the St. Ed's Steds. Plumby knows the Kangaroos 
Zahm's defense will have its their physical running game to the board." Plumby was equally lethal present the Ramblers with a hands full with Dillon's wing-T overpower Sorin's front seven. The Green Wave has relied during Siegfried's regular sea­tough opening round matchup. offense. Dillon was the' highest "Basically, we're just going on their running game this son, throwing for five touch­"Keough has few weakness­
to rely on our bread and but­season. Sophomore Kameron es. It's going to be a good game 
scoring team during the regu­downs, including three in the 
lar season. ter," said Linstroth. "We have Chappell had touchdowns in on Sunday."
21-7 win over Knott Hall. 

"We spend a lot of time on a big offensive line and our the team's first three games. 
"Everyone is healthy right

strong suit is just powering the "We are a running team and
the wing-T in practice," said now; the three weeks off
ball down the field. Our game our line has been pretty solid," 
Odom. "Because of all the helped a lot," said Plumby. Contact Aaron Ronsheim at motion that we run we have to pretty much stems from our said Costanzo. "We wanted to That includes two of his Ronsheim. l@nd.edu, Joe 
work on our timing." running game and as long as get Kameron a touchdown in 
favorite targets, receivers Bill Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu, Matt 

the rushing attack is working, our last game, but ran out of
One of the keys to running Bingle and John Kup. Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu and 
the wing-T offense is having we aren't going to stray from time." "We're going to rely on our Phil Koesterer at it." The Knights look to use their
more than one capable run­linebackers to fill any holes left pkoester@nd.edu. ning back. Jason Visner, Chris Sorin, on the other hand, week of preparation to offset 
hopes to open up the gameCrane and Kevin McCarthy 
offensively with the pass. 
lead the Big Red rushing 
"If our defense can hang withattack. 
that big offensive line of theirs, "All three of these guys can we should be OK," said Burke.
play," said Odom. "We don't "We've got some real talentedjust have one running back." 
wide receivers and if we canOdom doesn't mind handing keep their ·lineman out of thethe ball off to the trio of talent­backfield, I think [quarterbacked running backs. 
Greg] Carney can do what he"As long as we win I don't does best." 
care," he said. "That's all I 
With these teams being thecare about." 
four and five seeds, each cap­In order to stop the Dillon tain knows that reaching Notre offense, Zahm will need a big Dame Stadium will be a diffi­push on defense from senior cult, yet achievable goal. 
defensive linemen Pete 
"We're not looking past any­Countryman and Pete Henning. 
body, but we're confident and"Our defense is definitely the 
excited about the way our
strength of our team," said captain Gabe Ibanez. "We like team is playing," said 
Linstroth. "We're excited to
to mix it up on defensive with see what we can do in thedifferent fronts. We try to find playoffs against the best eightout what the offense is doing, teams in the league." 
then adjust." 

"[If we win] I think the teamsBoth def ens es are capable of we play after Alumni will be
dominating Sunday's game. 
pretty tough too," said Burke.
Dillon's defense has not 
"But I'm pretty sure this teamallowed a point in their last 
can handle any team in the
two games. 
playoffs right now.." 

"We preach intensity on defense," said Hernandez. "'We can always use more intensity. No. 3 Fisher vs. No. 6 Keenan We just fly to the ball." This Sunday at 2 p.m. on the 
Dillon will have to shut down South Riehle Field, the inter­Zahm junior quarterback Dan hall football playoffs start for Burke and freshman running the No. 3 Fisher Green Wave back Josh Schmidt if they want and No. 6 Keenan Knights. The to pitch another shutout. Knights are the defending

The Rabid Bats don't mind champions and have won the playing the role of the under­title in three of the past four dog. seasons. 
"If we can win this game it "It is nice to be back. It is a would give us a lot of momen­whole new season," said tum," said Ibanez. "If we do Keenan junior captain Brent upset them it would be huge." Morlok. "We have big expecta­tions for the playoffs." Fisher returns to the playoffs
No. 4 Alumni vs. No. 5 Sorin 
this season after losing in theAccording to their respective first round last year to Sorin
captains, both No. 4 Alumni 
J ' 
t i 

-


Friday, November 2, 2001 page 27
The Observer . SPORTS 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL PLAYOFFS 
No. 4 BP, No. 5 Walsh gear up for playoffs 
By MATT DeNICOlA, KATIE 
KINNER, DAN TARSHA and 
KEN CHAMPA Sports Writers 

It's playoff time. This is it. this is what every team in interhall foot­ball has been waiting for. And, for the teams fortunate enough to make it this far, they can not afford any more losses. No more mental mistakes, no more pointless mis­cues. In the playoffs, it all comes down to one thing: victory. 
No one knows this better than No. 4 Breen Phillips and No. 5 Walsh, who meet in one of the tightest postseason matchups. BP enters the playoffs with a 3-1-2 record, while Walsh holds a 2-0-4 record. 
What is more interesting about the game is that neither team played each other during the regu­lar season. While the two played a scrimmage before the season, nei­ther really knows quite what to expect. 
"It was long enough ago that both teams have improved drasti­cally," said BP captain Jenny Wahoske. 
But, even without a head to head game to compare the teams, it is fairly obvious that both teams rely on their defense. 
"They [Walsh] didn't allow any touchdowns all season," said Wahoske. "We know they have a great defense, but we are tough on D too." 
Walsh hopes to continue their success on the defensive end of the ball. 
"Everyone contributes to the defense," said captain Alison Troy. "We haven't had many intercep­tions or turnovers, it's just solid teamwork." 
If the Walsh defense continues to 
work, then it will come down to 
their offense to win. Quarterbacks 
Lauren Walsh and Carrie 
Campbell lead the Walsh offense. 
"We may have a few new plays in there, but pretty much we are working on the same attack." said Troy. 
BP hopes that their preparation can overcome the seemingly unstoppable \Valsh defense. 
"Everybody has been putting in good time at practice," said Wahoske. "We have prepared real­ly well this week." 
During the week, the Babes have tried to improve their offonse. 
"Converting on big opportunities is our biggest goal," said Wahoske. "Finishing up drives will be very important." 
She couldn't be more correct. If BP hopes to advance to the next round of the playoffs, their offense ,vill need to convert on any oppor­tunity they have. 
Both teams are prepared, and both teams expect to \\-in. But the playoff system allows only one to keep striving for the championship. 

"It's all going to come down to who is better prepared," said Wahoske. "It's all about hardwork and improving." 
No. 1 Welsh vs. No. 8 PW 
Domination. 

With a record of 6-0 this season, No. 1 \Velsh Family dominated tl1e playing field. Allowing only three scores the entire season, the Whirlwind defense leads their attack. The strong arm of fresh­man quarterback Lauren Hoeck provided a strong offensive assault. 
Intimidation. 

Facing such a team would seem a daunting task for any squad, but No. 8 Pasqucrilla West is up to the 
e 

challenge when the two teams 
meet this weekend in the opening 
round of the playoffs. 
"l think we can beat this team," 
said \Veasels captain Nicole 
Lopresto. "We just have to keep 
our minds in the game and not lose 
concentration." 
When the two teams met earlier 
in the season, Welsh controlled 
both sides of the ball, winning 18­
0. However, PW has learned from its mistakes. 
"\Ve played good solid defense but made early mistakes that cost us," said the senior captain. "We are going to try and avoid making the same mistakes." 
Using experience they gaii:ied from their regular season meeting, the Weasels have worked on changing their offensive strategy. 
"Our offense is trying a couple of new things to adjust to the Welsh defense," Lopresto said. "We were unprepared for the zone and we had only played teams using man­to-man." 
The Whirlwinds are aware of these changes, and are getting pre• pared. 
"We know they improved a lot, so we are trying to focus in on their three strong quarterbacks," said junior Welsh captain Vanessa Llchon. "We are going to play the same, but we will see what they 
bring." 
In the past, PW has relied on sophomore Leslie Schmidt at the quarterback position, but Lopresto would not divulge any details as to the \Veasels' new plan ofattack. 
As for Welsh, their defense includes Llchon, who had an inter­ception in the last meeting, and Kat \Volohan who contributed sacks in the Whirlwind victory over the Weasels. _ 
As PW looks to avenge the loss 
Mondays & Wednesdays-..-­
Like No t>lace Else 
.«fffl.:T;_g~\ 
. 
. 


br O ... de,.. of faJ·ifas (enou...t.. for fwo)for jusf t11*1
Enjoy a dou e .. .. t}L' 

Baby Back 'N Brew Wednesd'ays 
"I want my Baby Back.." Enjoy a fuII rack of CJiiif~QOfamous double b i d flame t"Jrilied Baby Back Ribs wi±h c1nnamon 
a.s-re . o . ** f apples and homesfyle fries for JUST ~9.99 • 

early in the season by making 
offensive changes, Llchon and the 
dominating Whirlwinds are 
remaining confident. 
"We are just going to go out 
there and do what we can." 
No. 2 Lewis vs. No. 7 McGlinn 
The last time No. 7 McGlinn and 
No. 2 Lewis faced off, Lewis won 
the bitter battle 2-0. 
McGlinn has not forgotten that 
close defeat. 
"We're out to get them," said 
senior McGlinn captain Christa 
Gray. "There's definitely is a 
revenge factor." 
This season's playoffs are McGlinn's first. They enter at 3-2-1 and possess a passing attack that has opened up in the last couple of games. 
McGlinn likes to run a balanced 
attack with quarterback Julie 
Kremer finding tight end Sarah 
Vatterott often. The cool-headed 
Kremer has emerged as a spirited 
team leader. Freshmen receivers 
On-Kay Wang and Katie Grimes 
round out the attack. 
The McGlinn defense plays as consistent as you can get. Throughout the season they have managed to shut down attacks at the most critical points. 
"Our defense is riding high and we're excited," Gray said, 
Lewis enters the opening round playoff game at 5-0-1. Despite being the higher seeded team, Lewis has experienced some mean comments from lower seeded McGlinn. 
"They have already seen our offense but we've put in a few wrinkles," said senior Lewis cap~ tain Caitlin Murray. "They talk a lot of trash but none of that matters now." 
Lewis has an unstoppable defense. Freshman lineman Sheila Dawes has been a surprise per­former for Lewis and a terror for opposing quarterbacks. Middle linebacker Becky "Rocky" Camillus mans a physical defense. She is a complete captain, leading by example and also in spirit. 
"Our defense is the rock of the team," said Murray. "Across the board we're solid at every posi­tion." 
Gray said, "It's gonna be close . They're a tough team. but we'll see what happens." 
from CIUTIIICIIIT Campus IIIIIID:I!ZifJI 
ColdWuther EJ<fHIIU 
Call 259-1000 for more details 



No. 3 Cavanaugh vs. No. 6 Badin 
This week the No. 6 Badin 
Bullfrogs enter into their game 
against the No. 3 Chaos of 
Cavanaugh with an advantage that 
you can't see. The Bullfrogs have 
relied on great player-coach rela­
tionships all year long to help make 
the playoffs this year. 
"Our coaches have been great," 
said senior cornerback Beth 
Sheehan. "They've been here for 
three years and are really good." 
The team is coached by a group 
of seniors, as Pat Scoggins and 
Anthony Pilcher handle the 
defense while Brett Gadsen and 
Casey Wendylan run the offense. 
The comfort with the coaching staff 
has helped the Bullfrogs relax and 
play their best this season. 
"We all get along well, and have become good friends with the coaches through the years," said junior running back Meghan· Cooney. 
Cooney will team with quarter­
back Erin Zachary to lead the 
Bullfrog offense on Sunday. 
On the other side of the ball, Badin will be led by a defense that features a trio of three year starters: seniors Beth Rimkus, Molly Norton and Beth Sheehan. The three have been the founda­tion for the Bullfrogs defense this season. 
..We'll come out with strong defense," said Cooney. "They've had a lot ofshutouts this season." 
Coming to the end of their senior year, many of the Bullfrog players know now is the time. 
"We've been in the playoffs before, and I really think this is our year," said Sheehan. 
Challenging the Badin defense is the high-powered Chaos offense. Cavanaugh earned their number three seed through the air this sea­son. The senior connection of quarterback Mandy Reimer and receiver Katie Burdick has shred­ded opposing secondaries. 
"We've been pretty successful this year on offense," said Burdick "We usually don't decide what to do until we get a feel for the game." 
The Chaos is well aware that anything can happen in the play­offs, and isn't looking past anyone. 
"Usually it's only one play that changes a game," said Burdi~k" "So we're playing every team like they're the No. 1 seed." 
Going into the playoffs the Chaos feel confident that they're clicking on all cylinders. 
"We really don't have any key weaknesses," said Burdick. "At this point it is all little things." 
Contact Matt DeNicola at mdenicol@nd.edu, Katie Kinner at kkinner@nd.edu, Daniel Tarsha at dtarsha@nd.edu and Ken Champa at kchampa@nd.edu. 

___________________,,.________________________________________________________ 
page 28 Wednesday, October 31, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS 
HOCKEY 

Irish wrap up road bip at Marquette 
off to a good start in the CCHA For Notre Dame to win, they Notre Dame has been their ByMATTORENCHUK with a strong performance must hold ofi to early leads. offensive output. Last season 
Sports Writer 

against the Wildcats. That Several times this season the the Irish had trouble scoring won't be an easy task, though. Irish have scored first in a goals. They got behind early 
The six-game Notre Dame Northern Michigan is coming game, only to watch it slip and had to put more pressure hockey road trip comes to an off an impressive sweep at the away in the third period. on their offense to play catch­end this weekend when the University of Michigan last The last time that happened up. Irish travel north to Marquette, weekend, and they are ranked was last weekend against Early on this season Notre Mich. to face CCHA foe 10th in the country. Boston College. The Irish Dame has had no trouble Northern Michigan. Notre The Wildcats are 3-0-1 on jumped out to an early 1-0 putting the puck in the goal. Dame is 0-4-2 on the year, the season, with all four games lead, which they kept into the Sophomore Aaron Gill and coming off a loss and tie last being played against CCHA third period. In the third the junior Connor Dunlop have led weekend against Boston opponents. This puts Northern Eagles came back and put up the way. Dunlop leads the team College and Northeastern, Michigan tied for first in the four goals (including an empty in points with 6, while Gill respectively. CCHA, while the Irish are sit­netter) to bury Notre Dame. leads the team in goals with 3. 
The Irish are looking to get ting in 11th place. A positive this season for Although Notre Dame is win­
Sports.com and received a capped by Graves' alley-oop Cornette appeared jittery early warm reception from the Irish pass to Humphrey with 6:48 to -he even ran into the game at
8-ball 

crowd when he was introduced go in the first half to stretch the the wrong time -but settled continued from page 32 in the starting lineup, only lead to 36-21. down and finished with two scored two points and played 19 Notre Dame led by 16 points points in 10 minutes of playing rebounds. minutes. at half­time. 
Thomas looked fairly impres­The Irish time, and Shawn Mason led the All-Stars sive for his first game, showing started quickly "I've been so impressed the Irish in scoring by finishing 7-of-15 the talent that earned him by jumping out pulled from the field, including 4-of-7 
with [Ryan Humphrey's] 
McDonald's All-American status to an early 17-4 away by from three-point range, for 19 as a high school senior. On one lead. The All­leadership from day one. outscoring points. play in the second half, as a bad Stars, a collec­He sets the tone -he's the All­Overall, the Irish seemed pass by an All-Star rolled down tion of former Stars 11-2 pleased with their first game of
kind ofour spokesman.
toward the Irish basket, Thomas college basket­at the the season.
He's in a better frame of
raced toward the ball, kept it ball players who beginning "It was good to sit on the same from going out of bounds, and didn't practice mind because he's of the sec­bench and get the uniforms on," laid it in the basket. But he also together until ond half. Brey said. " ... It'll be nice to
responsible for the 
committed four turnovers and Tuesday, didn't Jordan come in tomorrow and watch 
group.··
made a few bad passes. score their first Cornette some film against someone 
"I was happy with him," Brey basket until and Chris other than ourselves." said. "He'11 get better with each Paul Jacobs hit Mike Brey Markwood Notre Dame's next exhibition game. You saw a guy like Martin a baseline also saw game is Nov. 8 against the EA
Irish head coach
Ingelsby play last year and every jumper with their first Sports All-Stars. The Irish play possession was attention to 14:04 left in the action their first regular-season game detail, but he was a 22-year old first half. with the Nov. 16 after the Navy football senior. That's one thing Chris The All-Stars closed the score Irish. Markwood, who sat out all pep rally. has got to know. That's golden. to 23-17 with 10:32 left in the of last season after having knee But he does make some plays first half, but that was the clos­surgery, spelled Thomas at the for us." est they would get all night. The point guard position and record­Contact Andrew Soukup at 
Ingelsby, who was playing for Irish mounted a 13-4 run ed a steal and an assist. asoukup@nd.edu. 

less, the players are not pan­icking just yet. They realize the season is young. Notre Dame has only played two of their twenty-eight scheduled CCHA games this season. So there is plenty of time for the team to play better hockey. 
Notre Dame plays Northern Michigan tonight and Saturday. For tonight's game the puck drops at 7:05 p.m. 
Contact Matt Orenchuk at morenchu@nd.edu. 
Ingelsby 
continued from page 32 
to detail, but he was a 22 year . old senior," Brey said. "That's one thing Chris has got to know. That's golden." 
Ingelsby opened the game with the first points of the night on a goaltending call against Ryan Humphrey. The two didn't even appear to exchange glances. But when the buzzer sounded to end the game, Ingelsby and his old teammates were all smiles as they hugged and joked on the court. 
"It was good to get out there and play with them again," Ingelsby said. 
Ingelsby currently interns at the Notre Dame Athletic Department and plans to make three more appearances with the Sports.com All-Stars. 
Contact Kerry Smith at Smith.387@nd.edu 


Mon-Th 10:30am-9pm Fri-Sat 10:30am-10pm Sun ll:30am-8prn 
Join Us To Cheer On THE FIGHTING IRISH 


5 Televisions available to watch the game 

Stop in and enjoy a delicious,marinated chicken sandwich, a loaded hot-dog, and much more! 14" Chicago-Style Pizza w/ three toppings $9.95 for a limited time 
c.,"lo•,.. by William Shakespeare 

Thursday, November 8 .................. 7:30 p.m. Friday, November 9 ....................... 7:30 p.m. Saturday, November 10 ............... 7:30 p.m. 
Delivery available through Dine-in
Playing at Riley High School • Reserved Seats $16 
1733 South Bend Ave

Seniors $14 • All Students $12 (Located next to Turtle Creek -1/4 mile E. of canpus
Tickets available at Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office. 
State Road 23

MasterCard and Visa orders call 631 -81 28. 
2 7 7 -2 5 2 7 Must be 21 to purchase alcohol. 




page 29 

Friday, November 2, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
Irish conduct self-examination 
By NOAH AMSTADTER SportS Editor 
Following three tough matches over fall break, the Notre Dame volleyball team sat down and watched game videos. This practice of evalu­ating the strengths and weak­nesses of an opponent is not out of the ordinary. But this week they did something dif­ferent -the Irish scouted themselves. 
"We were pretty tough on ourselves, but I think that that was good," head coach Debbie Brown said. "I think we learned a lot from it and I think the team responded very well to it. It wasn't the type of thing where we were trying to beat ourselves down. We were really trying to learn from it. I think we accomplished that." 
With this newfound under­standing of their strengths and weaknesses, the Irish hit the road this weekend for matches at Big East opponents West Virginia and Pittsburgh on Saturday and Sunday, respectively. 
The Mountaineers enter Saturday's match struggling, with a 6-17 overall mark and only two wins in eight tries within the Big East. But Notre Dame knows not to take West Virginia lightly, no matter how much they're struggling. 
In 1998, Notre Dame walked into West Virginia a confident, perrenial NCAA-qualifying team. They walked out with only their second Big East loss since joining the conference. 
"I definitely remember it," Brown said. "I think it's the type of thing where it's a good 
WWW.LUNKERS.COM PH 1-616-663-3745 26324 US 12 EAST EDWARDSBURG, Ml 
49112 

lesson for us that we can never overlook anybody in the conference." 
Seniors Marcie Bomhack, Malinda Goralski and Kristy. Kreher were on that team and won't let the team's younger players walk into Morgantown overconfident. 
"I know that the seniors remember that and I feel con­fident in their leadership that they're not going to let any­body walk in there and take them too lightly," Brown said. 
When Notre Dame played at West Virginia last year, Kreher led the Irish with 12 kills on a .579 hitting percent­age. On the defensive end, Notre Dame will look at stop­ping Mountaineer opposite Dimitra Havriluk, who aver­ages 2.88 kills per game. 
"Offensively, she's definitely the one that we feel like we need to stop," Brown said of Havriluk. "She's their go-to player. Looking at the tape and everything, I tl)ink we have a pretty good game plan and I think we'll be able to contain her." 
After the West Virginia game, Notre Dame will head 70 miles north to take on Pittsburgh at Fitzgerald Fieldhouse. Pittsburgh hosts the Big East Championships in two weeks, so this weekend provides a chance for the Irish to get used to the court in advance. 
"I do think it's good that they're having the tournament there in a couple of weeks," Brown said. "It's good to have the opportunity to play there." 
The Panthers have tradition­ally fielded a strong program; in fact, Notre .Dame and Pittsburgh met in the Big East Tournament championship game in 1995 and 1996. But this year, Pittsburgh is rebuilding, and struggling to a 7-14 overall record. 

"I have a lot of respect for Pittsburgh and I have a lot of respect for their coaching staff," Brown said. "As we looked at the tape, I think they're really good. They're a very physical team. They hit the ball really hard. By look­ing at the tape, I'm really not sure why they've struggled.,. 
Part of the Panthers' strug­gles have come from their top player changing positions. Sophomore Wendy Hatlested played opposite last year, but with the graduation of Pittsburgh's two outside hit­ters, has moved to the outside hitter position., 
"I think Wendy does a great job hitting for them on the left side," Brown said. "I think she's definitely a very strong weapon for them." 
Notre Dame's biggest strug­gles in matches against St. Louis, Kentucky and Providence involved passing and offensive continuity. The Irish failed to post a .300 hit­ting percentage in any of the three matches· and had more service errors than serve aces against Kentucky. Brown expects those problems to be . fixed. 
"I feel pretty good that our offense is going to be much stronger than what it was our last three matches," Brown said. 
Contact Noah Amstadter at namstadt@nd.edu. 
FOUNDED BY FRAN MCCOLLESTER -A 1977 ND GRAD! 
ONE OF THE LARGEST OUTDOOR STORES IN THE COUNTRY! YOUR HEADQUARTERS FOR FISHING, HUNTING AND CAMPING GEAR! WE NOW HAVE A HUGE GIFT AREA! 
AfMGl!ER~S ff NfNI fRfESiAURANT 
-LOCATED INSIDE LUNKER'S ­
LARGE MENU OF DELICIOUS FOOD AND DRINK ITEMS. SURROUNDED BY LARGE AQUARIUMS FULL OF FISH AND BIG SCREEN TVS FULL OF SPORTS! PERFECT PLACE TO DINE BEFORE OR AFTER THE GAME! 
OVER 20 AQUARIUMS, INCLUDING OUR 6,000 GALLON LUNKQUARIUM 

VISIT OUR CLOTHING
COME EXPERIENCE THE 2ND 
AREA FEATURING:
HIGHLIGHT OF THE AREA ( 1 ST BEING ND) 
NORTH FACE 

PATAGONIA MIDWEST'S LARGEST SELECTION WOOLRICH OF FISHING, HUNTING AND COLUMBIA CAMPING/BACKPACKING EQUIP­FILSON MENT. SO MUCH TO SEE AND EXPERIENCE! 
HUGE AUTHENTIC SIGNED SPORTS MEMORABILIA* SECTION 
•GOD BLESS AMERICA• 
LOCATED ONLY 15 MINUTES FROM ND! SR 23N TO US 12 
MEN'S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Synchronization is key for divers 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE SPorts Writer 
When Irish diver Andy Maggio takes to the board tonight, he'll have to take something into account that he normally doesn't. 
Another diver. 

Maggio and teammate Joe Miller will compete in a synchronized div­ing competition as a part of Notre Dame's matchup against the University of Tennesee. Tennesee, which boasts some of the best divers in the country, requested the competition, Maggio said. 
So that's meant some extra practice time to prepare for the event, which Notre Dame has only competed in once this season. 
"The real key is at the beginning of the dive," Maggio said. "We have to time our takeoff so that we come off the board at the same time ... whether the dive's in sync or not really depends on the start." 
Maggio and Miller won't be the only ones focusing on the finer details tonight during the meet. The meet will be a lesson in skill development for the Irish as they race some of the best competitprs in the nation, said Irish head coach Tim Welsh. 
"We want to learn from racing them," said Welsh. "We're looking at this meet as a way to develop racing skills. The actual score is not an issue. The issue is, can we develop racing skills to compete against some of the best teams in the country?" 
No. 5 Tennesee won't struggle much with the unranked Notre Dame team. The Volunteers will be the toughest competition ­conference and non-conference ­the Irish will see all season. 
"We're excited for the competi­tion," Maggio said. "When you go against people who are top per­formers on the national level, you raise your own level of perfor­mance." 
The Irish will have a good model in Tennesee, who is currently 7 -0 on the dual meet season after recent defeats of the University of Kentucky and LSU. The roster boasts eight All-Americans, all of whom have significant champi­onship experience in the SEC, one of the nation's tougher conferences in swimming and diving. 
The meet's program will differ slightly from no~mal programs, Welsh said, so that individual per­formances can't be compared to normal season dual meets. 
In addition to the synchronized diving competition, the meet pro­gram will feature a mix of sprint and distance events, and is differ­ent from any dual meet program this season, Welsh said. 
"The way the meet is put togeth­er will not be parallel to any other meet," Welsh said. "There is not a comparison factor here." 
Tennesee senior Jeremy McDonnell, an individual medley standout, and sophomore freestyler and breastroker Andrew Bree will lead the Volunteers' squad. Divers Philip Jones and Jake Dorsey will lead the diving squad. 
Notre Dame and Tennesee have never met in championship or dual meet competition before, making tonight's matchup at Rolfs Aquatic Center a first. But despite the uneven matchup in skill level, the Irish are taking this meet as a learning experience, Welsh said. 
"This is a meet where we're interested more in skill develop­ment than the outcome," Welsh said. 
The meet begins at 7 :30 p.m. at Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
Contact Noreen Gillespie at gil10843@saintmarys.edu. 


Warren & Linda 
7/r.1/ Orif1'nal.?izza in ':loam I 
Since 1951 
Specializins in Italian Entrees 
Tues. -Thurs.: 5:00 PM -11 :00 PM Fri.. Sat.: 5:00 PM -1:00 AM 
537 North St. Louis • South Bend, IN 
219-,233-:2464 

THANKS TO NOTRE DAME FOR 50 GREAT YEARS 
.... 

SAFETY & SELF-DEFENSE 
Strategies for Avoiding Dangerous Situations 
Basic Se.If-Defense Techniques ~ Physical Dimensions of Combat ~ 
DYNAMICS OF' HAND TO HAND COMBAT 
CLASSES BEGIN MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5 10 SESSIONS ON MONDAYS & WEDNESDAYS 6:30-7:45 PM 
ROCKNE MEMORIAL RM 219 
OPEN TO AU FEMALE ND STUDENTS, FAC/STAFF& SPOUSES $12.00 REGISTRATION FEE IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS CLASS SIZE IS UMITED 
Friday, November 2, 2001

page 30 The Observer . SPORTS 

i ' 
' ',
' ,-, 
• I' t ;,· 
,, (' 
~· /·, 
ND WOMEN'S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Irish avenge last year's loss; beat Boilermakers 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE Spores Wricer 
The record board might not be posted yet at Purdue's new Haywood pool, but when it is, the names of Notre Dame swimmers will be plas­tered all over it. 
And that's exactly what the women's swimming and diving team wanted when they went into their matchup against Purdue Thursday night. Armed with a vengance to defeat the Boilermakers after last year's loss in West Layfayette, Ind., the Irish stormed past Purdue 209.50-90.50, setting several new pool records in the process. 
"I know we set a number of pool records," said Irish head coach Bailey Weathers. "I think the meet meant a lot to the girls ... I think they felt they had a lot to prove because of last year's meet." 
The Irish won 12 of 16 events in the matchup, which has become one of their hottest dual meet rivalries in the past few years. 
With the Purdue bleachers boom­ing with the cheers of the Boilermaker football team echoing through the natatorium, the support of Purdue fans just gave extra moti­vation to the Irish squad, Weathers said. ' 
",They were pretty v o c a I , " Weathers said. "I think it got the girls pretty excited." 
The Irish started out the meet on a win, with the team of senior Kelly Hecking, sophomore Lisa D'Olier and seniors Allison Lloyd and Carrie Nixon winning the 400-yard individ­ual medley relay in 3 minutes, 45.48 seconds. 
Nixon continued her undefeated 2001-02 campaign after sitting out last season with a shoulder injury. Nixon brought home two first place finishes for the Irish, winning the 50-yard freestyle in 23.18 seconds and the 100-yard freestyle in 50.96 seconds. 
Sophomore Marie Labosky was also a double winner for Notre Dame, capturing the 400-yard indi­vidual medley in 4 minutes, 23.08 seconds, and the 500-yard freestyle in 4 minutes, 58.86 seconds. 
Sophomore Lisa D'Olier was also a double winner, winning the 200-yard butterfly in 2 minutes, 3.14 seconds and the 100-yard butterfly in 56.22 seconds. 
Single-eve1,1t winners for the Irish included sophomore Lisa Garcia in the 200-yard freestyle, freshman Kristen Peterson in the 200-yard backstroke, junior Laurie Musgrave in the 200-yard breastroke and senior Heather Mattingly in the 3­meter diving. 
The Irish improve to 4-0 on the season with the win over Purdue. 
Contact Noreen Gillespie at gil10843@saintmarys.edu 
MEN'S SOCCER 
No. 20 Irish look to wrap up Big East foe 
By BRYAN KRONK Sports Writer 
The Tennessee football team won't be the only Irish foe wearing orange on Saturday. 
The No. 20 Notre Dame men's soc­cer team concludes its regular sea­son Saturday night with a battle against Big East rival Syracuse at Alumni Field at 7:30 p.m. 
Heading into Saturday's game, the Irish, with a 6-3 conference record, stand in fourth place in the Big East. Having already clinched a spot in the Big East postseason tournament, the Irish now look to earn a first-round home game, by finishing in the top four in the conference. 
"It'll be a terrific game. If we win it, we've got a good chance at getting a home game in the Big East [tour­nament]. which would be great, if we could get a big game here, to get the town out," head coach Bobby Clark said. · 
The Irish are currently 5-1 at home this season. 
Syracuse, on the other hand, enters Saturday's game in seventh place in the Big East, with a 4-4-1 record, and needs a win to solidify its position in the conference tourna­ment. 
The Orangemen have struggled recently, winning only one of its last five games, a 3-2 win in overtime at Rutgers on Oct. 17. They enter Saturday coming off a tough 2-1 loss to in-state rival Hartwick College on Wednesday night. 
Since Clark replaced junior goalie Greg Tait with freshman Chris Sawyer before Notre Dame's match against Bradley on Sept. 25, the Irish have won eight of 10 games. Their last six victories have been shutouts by Sawyer. Their two losses, at Seton Hall in overtime and at Connecticut, were both 1-0 scores. 
"I think Chris Sawyer has definitely contributed to [the team's recent success},'' Clark said. "He has made some big saves at vital times for us." 
Notre Dame also has an edge in its previous matchups with the Orangemen, having taken five of the past seven matches in the series, including a 3·0 victory last year at Syracuse Soccer Stadium. 
The key to victory for the Irish is for their defense to control ·syracuse forward Kirk Johnson. who is tied for second in the Big East with 29 points on the season, and Jarett Park, who leads the team with 14 assists. 
Heading into the game, Clark likes his team's chances, based on the improvement he's seen in his team this season. 
"This team has been growing head• ing into the end of the season; that's a sign of a good team," Clark said. "Hopefully we're starting to peak." 
Contact Bryan Kronk at bkronk@nd.edu. 


• 
e rose in concert
an1e 
a benefit concert for afghani refugees 


tonight 9:30pm coleman-niorse lounge 
refreshments provided 
C-M 
Campus Ministry

co-sponsored by campus ministry & pax christi 


Friday, November 2, 2001 page 31
The Observer . TODAY 
MEN'S SOCCER Sat. :Nov.3 VS. SYRACUSE As always, Students free at Alumni Field!!!  #6 WOMEN'S SOCCER *Big East Quarterfinal* Sur>. Nov. q. @ 1:00 PM vJ)b~~\..t:t.l4.•t.u~,.a'J,: ~t-:ficmn;'y • • ..-._.. c~ • •-:,,Y THE DORM WITH THE HIGHEST PERCENTAGE IN ATTENDANCE RECEIVES$ 300 FOR THEIR ACCOUNT Free Admission for first 300 students @ Alumni Field!  

FOURTH AND INCHES 
A CAAEER IN 

DO THE 
ENGINEEAING IS A 

OU>ER 
NON-STOP FUN AND 

ENGINEERS 
EXCITING ADVENTURE 

FEEL THAT 
WAY? 
FOXTROT 
CROSSWORD 

11·1. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
12 Split 13 Feminine ending 14 Headliner 
destination? 24 Mortals, to Puck 26 Naval engineer 28 Real swingers? 29 Puts in a final 
resting place 
Ballesteros 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
60 Listless: Var. 61 Multivitamin product 62 100,000-dyne units 63 Part of an ensemble 
DOWN 
1 Sarni speakers 2 Automaker 
Citroen 3 Chief stewards 4 Class-conscious 
org.? 5 Effortless pace 6 Xenophanes 
taught there 
7" Am" 
(Melissa Etheridge title . track) 8 Monopolize, with "up" 9 Role played by 
in a 1993 TV movie based on real life 
1 O Like a trident 

KNEW IT
THEN 

WAS A BAD 
IDEA TO HOLD OPEN HOUSE IN THE ENGINEERING 
BUILDING... F::::.-C6-~II 
1ASON, WHAT'S IN YOUR MOUTH? Ic(\,~  HALLOWEEN CANDY. I  IT'S 5:30! I'M COOKINC:, SPA&HETTI! I THOUGHT l MADE IT CLEAR l WANT YOU KtOS EATING, YoUR CANOY AFTER DINNER! \ I AM.  I'M STILL CHEWING THE STUFF FROM LAST NIC:JHT. \  l CAN VOUCH­HE PUT HALF HIS 8A& IN THERE. \ ~  


Puzzle by &Nndan Emmen Quigley 
32 Johnson or  47 Showed  
Johnson: Abbr.  subservience  
33 lighter feature  48 Reddish shade  
34 Heavenly sound  49 Traffic  _  
35 Epinephrine  50 Quid  
trademark  52 "Medea• Tony  
36 Pat material?  winner, 1994  
37 Like some  

sweaters 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
motives. 000

43 St. Paul's are available by touch-tone phone: 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl 22): You 
must not get trappec!. in one-sided

School founder 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
infatuations at work. Keep your
John 

Annual subscriptions are available for the 
.....

44 1836 siege site best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
Birthday Baby: You are bright, creative and <Jl.!ite wil!ing to follow your own path. You have your own idea of how things should be and

46 Philippine island years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
what you want to do. You aren't likely to be led by others especially once you make your mind up. (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 


RYAN
B B

TOM KEELEY 
EFUDDLED AND EMUSED CUNNINGHAM 
~i• ore we 0Jk1!:iv ·"j 
tr-~~? 

i\_ 
~~fl 

BILL AMEND 
The name of the gravy is directly proportionate to how badly they messed it up. 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Hillary Clinton, Bob Hoskins, Rita Wilson, Dylan McDermott, Jaclyn Smith, Pat Saj.lk
Hap.(>Y Birthday: You're finally getting 1t t~ether. Your plans are sound and your ability to finish what you start will lead to results. Don't be shy; you deserve the rewards for your efforts. Be gra­cious, and you will have rontinued success. Your numbers: 16, 22, 34, 39,42.48 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Don't be stubborn. Ask for help, but don't lend or borrow money or neglect your own responsibilities. You have to exert more patience when dealin with children. 000 
TAURU§ (April 20-May 20): 
Creative work will bring the high­est rewards. Expand your horizons by getting involvea in unusual forms of entertainment. You will be drawn toward individuals who are stimulatin and intelli t 0000 
G~(May 21-1:e 20): You will hear some interesting news today. You should be planning to eaten up on phone calls or taia.ngshort tnps to visit old friends or ref­atives. You need to connect with eeople from your past in order to ilisci>ver your future direction 00 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
You will feel anxious if your part­ner wants to talk about your rela­

53 Most fit for the 
tionship. Listen to any concerns. 
forces 
Don't get u~or angry. Be Wlder­standing and compassionate if you

wish to patch things up. 1he more sixth 
S4 Henry Vlll's 
you listen and observe the better i:hiru?.s will 00000 57 Coolers, briefly 
O:o 0~23-Auir 22): You can expe<:t your domestic scene to be unstable. Be sure to take heed of

59 Unfavorable 
advice given by close friends. Don't 
take your lover for granted. You 
need to reflect a bit about your 
EUGENIA LAST 
desires to yourself and don't let evenyour closest friend know how you feel You will avoid an embar-­
>r~ing situation if you are secre­tive. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Spend some time with the one you love. Make plans to do things that inter­est both of you. A little travel would be a great way to start off the week­end. The more you do together the closer you will become. OOC> 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You must not take on the weieht of the world. You can only ao so mudt. Don't let anyone make you feel gi.illty for another's shortcom­ings. You need to be o~ve but not a pust!Over. It's time to look out for yourse1£. 00000 
SAGfITARIUS CNmt 22-0ec. 21): You can't expect everyone to agree with you today. If you don't want to argue, then don't¢ involved in a de6ate. It's best to do things that promise to be enlightening and JJ1Sililitful. 00 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You should be looking into any minor health problems that have been bothering r,ou. The anxiety that you feel will be due to the financial situation you got yourself into. It's time to set up a game plan and stick to it 0000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You'll find it difricult to control your true feelings. Don't be afraid to tell _your partner how you feel and wnat you want At least you'll solve the problem one way or another. It's time to get on to better 
times.000 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
You may not like the reactions you get from colleagues today so don't confront situations at work. It's time to get into activities that you enjoy. You need an outlet that will provide you with the stimulation you're lacking right now. 000 
ACROSS 

1 Aquatic bloodsucker 8 Biting pieces 
15 Novelist France 
16 August 
17 "lime to Be in Eamesr autobiographer 18 1992 country album 19 No mere dabbler 20 Beach item 22 It may be dinged 23 One lorded over? 
25 Presley's "Don't," e.g., not "I Beg of You" 
27 Beyond paramedic help 29 Supermodel Sastre 30 Thought waves 
33 Reveler's cries 38 "People have told me ... " 39 Things to "see" in an encyclopedia 40 Some G.I. duties 41 River to Donegal Bay 42 Former Giants manager 43 Playground retort 45 It's enveloped in white 48 Official soft drink of Little League 51 Express casually 
55 Banker's bane 
56 "C'est 
magnifique!" 58 Stunned 

____ .-----------­
-------------------------------------------------------------, 
Campus Sports OTHE Campus Sports
BSERVER 
. ND Women's Swimming, p. 30 
. Hockey, p. 28 
. 
Men's Soccer, p. 30 . Women's lnterhall Football, p. 27 

. 
ND Volleyball, p. 29 . Men's lnterhall Football, p. 26 

. 
Men's Swimming, p. 29 


Friday, November 2, 2001 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Showing up somebody new­
. Irish crush Sports.com All-Stars by 33 points in first exhibition of season 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Associate Spores Editor 

Ryan Humphrey was tired of playing against the same faces at practice day after day. 
So when the Irish took the court against the Sports.com All-Stars for their first exhibition game of the season Thursday night, Humphrey took the opportunity to beat somebody else up. 
"It was good to pound on other people today," he said after Notre Dame's 108-75 win. 
Humphrey tied Matt Carroll for the game high with 21 points and added 14 rebounds to pace the Irish. David Graves also recorded a double­double by scoring 20 points and grabbing 10 rebounds. 
But it was Humphrey's rim-rattling dunks and dominant defense that caught the attention of the 9,638 in attendance at the Joyce Center. 
Although the senior co-captain, who shot 9-of­16 from the field and a dismal 3-of-12 from the free throw line, started out slowly, as the game wore on, Humphrey emerged as a dominant inside presence. At one point, he blocked a shot by Sports.corn's Terrance Simmons so hard that the ball flew over the head of reporters seated in press row. 
"I've been so impressed with his leadership from day one," Notre Dame head coach Mike Brey said. "He sets the tone -he's kind of our spokesman. He's in a better frame of mind because he knows he's responsible for the group." 
In all, six Notre Dame players scored double­digit points. Freshman point guard Chris Thomas, playing in his first collegiate game, had 14 points and nine assists. Torrian Jones added 11 points and Jere Macura picked up 10. Harold Swanagan added nine points and eight 
see B-BALUpage 28 

. lngelsby steps back onto Joyce Center court -for the other team 
By KERRY SMITH 
Sports Writer 
When the Irish suited up for their first exhi­bition outing of the season, all the familiar faces were there. Irish head coach Mike Brey directed from the bench as the starters took to the court -even one of last season's starters. 
Former Irish point guard Martin Ingelsby was a familiar face to the home crowd as he ran out on to the court to enthusiastic onlook­ers, but his look was somewhat different. 
Donning a red and white uniform, Ingelsby suited up with Notre Dame's opponent for the evening -the Sports.coi11 Allstars. _. 
And his look wasn't the only thing different about Ingelsby. Instead of his usual 40­minute, multiple point performance, Ingelsby played only 19 minutes and scored just 2 points. 
But it was all in fun for the 2001 graduate. 
"I haven't played 19 minutes since the Mississippi game in the first half," joked Ingelsby. "When was the last time I picked up a basketball? It's been a long time." 
But the Irish were glad to see their old on­and off-court leader back in action. 
"We were just out there joking around. They were giving me a hard time before the game. The scouting report had Inglesby's -six feet, 220 pounds. That's probably not too far off now.'' 
Brey, who watched his former disciplined point man go against his freshman starting point guard in the exhibition game thought ~he newcomer Chris Thomas could learn a few lessons from Ingelsby. 
"You saw a guy like Martin lngelsby play last year and every possession was attention 
see INGELSBY/page 28 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Irish take on Red Storm in Big East quarterfinals 
By JEFF BALTRUZAK Assistant Sports Editor 

In a week of honors and off~the-field victories, the No. 6 Notre Dame women's soccer team looks to add a win over St. John's this Sunday in the Big East quar­terfinals at Alumni Field. 
The Irish monopolized the Big East Player of the Week awards, with Amanda Guertin's three goals securing her the offensive nod and senior Monica Gonzalez's strong defensive play earning her the defensive honor. 
Gonzalez also was victorious in a legal dispute against the University last week, when St. Joseph County Superior Court Judge \Villiam T. Means granted her a preliminary injunction that will allow her to finish the soccer season. Gonzalez had previously been suspended by the University for an alleged marijuana­related offense while Gonzalez was studying in Puebla, Mexico last spring. 
Junior defender Vanessa Pruzinsky moved one step closer to becoming the Missouri Athletic Club's Women's Soccer National Player of the Year when she was named a finalist for the award Tuesday. 
Awards and judgments aside, the Irish are entering the Big East Championships on a somewhat positive note. Notre Dame dropped their most important Big East game Oct. 21 to No. 9 Connecticut 3-1, but rebounded nicely with a pair of wins against Yale and No. 22 Michigan, 2-0 and 2-1 respectively. 
The Red Storm enters the league play­offs the owner of 6-10 overall record, with a 3-3 mark in Big East play. The Irish handed them their worst loss of the season on Oct. 12, a 7-0 dismantling at Alumni Field. 
The Irish offense, after adequate but not overwhelming goal support for much of the season, has recently become more productive. Discounting the Irish's loss to the Huskies, Notre Dame has scored 15 goals in its last five games. 
Guertin has been especially hot, scor­ing six of the Irish's last 10 goals in the midst of a five-game scoring streak. She leads the team in all major offensive cat­egories, including goals, assists, points, shots and shots on goal. 
The winner of the Notre Dame-St. John's will face the winner of the Boston College-Villanova quarterfinal next Friday. The Irish lost to Rutgers 2-1 on Oct. 5 in Piscataway, N.J. Should the Irish win their quarterfinal, they will return to Piscataway to play out the rest of the Big East Championships. 
Notes: 
. Despite its loss Connecticut. Notre Dame jumped two spots in the NSCAA/Adidas Division I poll. The Huskies and the Irish are the only two ranked teams in the Big East. West Virginia, who finished directly behind Notre Dame in the Big East Mid-Atlantic division, appeared in the "Others receiv­ing votes" section of the poll. 
Contact Jeff Baltruzak at jbaltrul@nd.edu. 

f 
. Men's Swimming vs. Tennessee, Today, 7:30 p.m. 
OBSERVER

! ( SPORT 
. Football vs. Tennessee, Saturday, 1:30 p.m.
I on l i n e edition 
I 
( I . . Men's Soccer vs. Syracuse, Saturday, 7:30 p.m. 
I ­I 
AT AGLANCE . Women's Soccer vs. St. John's, Sunday, 1 p.m. http://www.nd.edu/ ~observer 
I 
t 1· 
./
,I' 
./ 
E 


\ 
f 
Friday, November 2, 200 I 

page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
Irish reduced to spoilers against Vols 
moving forward." By KERRY SMITH The presence of Irish start-Sports Writer ing q u ar.ter back Carlyle 
Holiday at the helm will help It's not often that the Irish that end. admit they're playing the role Holiday, who went down of the underdog at home. But with a bruised knee in the with a tough 3-4 season • final series of Notre Dame's 
record looking to get even tougher d_own the stretch, Notre Dame head coach Bob Davie finds himself and his team in just that position as they host No. 7 Tennessee Saturday. 
"For us, here at Notre Dame, to have a chance to play these kinds of teams, you have an opportunity to jump up and maybe in some ways be a spoiler, you know, and, that's what we plan on doing," Davie said. 
What used to be the oppor­tunity for expected wins against dominant programs now has this season become the opportunity to spring an upset on teams steamrolling toward post-season berths. 
And a win against Tennessee would certainly be an upset. The 5-.1 Vols are on a roll this season, holding three opponents to 10 points or less and dropping its only loss to now-No. 23 Georgia by two points. 
The Vols' wins havP come as a result of the combination one of the top rush de(enses in the natiori and its powerful offense, led by quarterback Casey Clausen and tailback Travis Stephens. 
While the Irish are averag­ing 186 yards a game on the ground and more than 250 in 
their last four outings, the 
Vols have held their oppo­nents to an average 82 rush­ing yards a game. 
But Davie thinks his game plan can overcome the No. 10 rush defense in the nation. 
'Tm glad we have options. It would be really difficult to go in there and just try to pound them," Davie said. "I think we have some dimen­sions of our offense that give us a chance to be successful against a team that's physical ... I don't think we change. I think that's one thing that we have done good job of over the last month ... I think we are comfortable with that and we are just going to keep 
loss to Hoston College last week will return to the Irish lineup Saturday. 
Holiday has posted more than 100 rushing yards in three games this season and is already third on the University's single-season quarterback rushing chart with 510 total yards. 
Holiday's arm has also improved as the first-year starter has amass.ed more s,tarts. 
Ten.nessee head coach Phillip Fulmer is anticipating a strong performance by Holiday and is preparing his team for the challenge. 
"When you put an athletic, mobile quarterback in the mix,· the option attack, their inside run with talented tail­backs, their talented wide receivers and a big, huge offensive line, that presents its share of problems," Fulmer said. "It's a tough scheme. We'll have to be at the top of our game to be able to get that slowed down." 
But the Tennessee defense has proven this season that no matter what offense it comes up against, it domi­nates. The Vols have held its opponents to just 2.8 yards per carry and only one rush­ing touchdown in six games. 
And its offense has been just as potent. 
Stephens has ripped holes in opponents' defenses all season long, with 870 net yards and seven touchdowns under his belt. Averaging 145 yards a game, the senior is poised to break the l ,000­yard mark for the season at Notre Dame Stadium. 
Clausen, with nearly 64 per­cent accuracy, will pose a threat to the Irish in the air. The sophomore has thrown for seven touchdowns and five interceptions. 
But despite the seemingly­lopsided results posted by the two teams so far this season, the veterans on the Irish squad think they can salvage 
FIESTA. YOU'LL NOTICE THE DIFFERENCE! 
$ Go Irish! f$ 

Look great for the game with these special offers! 
WILSHIRE PLAZA 243-1277 5674 Grape Rd. Near Sam's Club 

no appointment necessary Open Mon-Fri 8-8 Sat 8-6 Sun 10-5 
$2.00 off 
a haircut 
[ n-gualary S 11.99 and up I 
Not wlid with any uthrr offer. Valid only with<:nupon at :j Wilshire Plaza fie5ta Hair EtTanning Salon. Exp,~ 11f30/0l.. 
-~ • . , ' ••' --• -'t ·­

$2.00 off 13 tans 
professional haircare for $20 
products [$5.95 and up ] [ Lanning by appointment only J_i 
Not valid with any o!hCf otw-. Valid only with coupon at Not vJlid with any other offer. Valid only with COUJIO!' at , • Wibhi~ Plaza F,c,;ta Hair ftTannmg Salon El<p,1"'5 11/:Q'Ol.••Wi~irl: ~~-Fi,:s~ Hair Et!ann,_ng 5:!lon:~'":' !l~l. 
~ 0
. -.. . . .. ....,., ,,_ . ,~ .-.. 

www.fiestasalons.com •."ii"----·
we accept: """=Ell4•·•.-.~ IMATRIX-: CAllfDRNlA
~.Q!S¥,~ ME{US 1¥U-.t~:t~ . T,-.N"¢A 

KEVIN DALUM/The Observer 

A Notre Dame defensive lineman tackles a Tennessee ballcarrier during the Volunteers 38-14 win 
against the Irish in 1999.  
the team's lackluster perfor­mance and turn the season around with four more wins to ride out the schedule. "You don't ever really want to get accustomed to losing,"  center Jeff Faine said. "There are some guys, especially the young guys, who think the season is over. We can still turn this season around with four more wins. You've got to  

bounce back. You can't ever accept losing." 
Contact Kerry Smith at Smith.387@nd.edu 


NO C~OVER TO GET IN. NO I.D. REQUII:i:ED. 
As a matter of fact, all you need is a few bucks and our phone number. And the number is listed below. So give us a call and discover that not all pizza is alike. Better ingredients make a Better Pizza. Papa John's. 
HOURS: M-Th -11 :OOam -I:OOam Fr-Sa -JI :OOam -3:00am Sun -Noon -I:OOam 
NOTRE DAME 
271-1177 
ST. MARY'S/HOLY CROSS 

Better Ingredients, 271-7272 Better Pizza. FREE DELIVERY AND CARRYOUT 
MAKE IT A MEAL I I LATE NIGHT SPECIAL : I Large I Topping 1 Large, I Topping I I Large, I Topping 1 $9.99 
I

I Breadsticks 
9pni-close : 2 Large I Topping I 
I ~ $7.99 : ~$13.99

~$;i'.;~ I I 

Friday, November 2, 2001 

The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Hunting a. career 
Senior wide receiver in ­midst ofbreak-out year after three long seasons 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Associate Sports Editor 
Some kids grow up wanting to 
be firefighters, dentists or police 
officers. Others want to be doc­
tors, bus drivers and movie stars. 
But when those kids become 
adults, they leave their childhood 
dreams behind with their toys 
and stuffed animals. 
Javin Hunter wanted to an ath­
lete. And that's a dream he's not 
giving up. 
''I've been around sports my 
whole life," he said. "It was great 
being around the athletes and 
the locker rooms. It gave me an 
inside edge. Honestly, all I ever 
wanted to be was an athlete." 
Sports have always been a big 
part of Javin Hunter's life. His 
father, James, played seven 
years in the NFL as a star defen­
sive back for the Detroit Lions 
and filed post-game stories for a 
Detroit radio station after retir­
ing with an injury. A huge fan of 
Detroit sports, Javin Hunter 
attended many Hed Wings, Lions, 
Tigers and Pistons games. Often, 
Hunter would go into the locker 
rooms after games and spr,nd 
time with the Lions. 
"Javin so happened to be born 
into an athletic lifestyle," James 
Hunter said. "... It seemed natur­
al that he wanted to be one." 
Growing up outside of Detroit, 
Javin Hunter played many differ­
ent sports -and he was good at 
them too. By the time he was a 
freshman at Detroit Country Day 
High School, he was a well­
established football and basket­
ball standout. 
In his four years of high school, 
he played on the same basketball 
team -as former Duke standout 
and current Memphis Grizzlies' 
rookie Shane Battier, helping to 
win three state titles. He was an 
all-state selection in football. And 
he set an eighth grade record in 
the long jump. 
But when it came time for 
Javin Bunter to pick a sport, he 
settled on football. 
"( really hoped to play both sports," he said. "But I Weis get­ting recruited more in football, and I was All-American in foot­ball. So l picked frmtball." 
Although Javin Hunter chose to focus on football at Notre Dame. he never could leave basketball completely behind him. I le suc­cessfully walkrd-on to the bas­ketball team and although he practiced with them for the sec­ond semester, he neVfff got into a gan1e. 
And when John MacLeod left and Matt Doherty arrived. Javin Hunter decided to focus com­pletely on football. 

"J dt>finitely thought about going up to Coach Doherty and asking if I could play," he said. "But I felt it would be better for me if I conc(mtrated on football. Looking back on ·it, maybe I cou Id havri made more of a chance at it ... I felt like I cot\ld play either sport." 
Chained down 
VVith basketball behind him. Javin Hunter turned his attention toward football. But it wasn't easy for him. 
During his freshman year, the only time he touched a ball was 
up close & personal 
WITH JAVIN 
HUNTER 

Javin Hunter 
birthdate: May 9, 1980 hometown: Orchard Lake, Mich. major: economics worst item in the dining hall: 
Chinese food I chose Notre Dame because: I wanted to be successful 
aword to describe me on the field: talented aword to describe me off the field: chill favorite television show: I don't watch too much 1V 
to run a 15-yard reverse against Army. He played in seven games his first season, but didn't even catch his first pass until the first game of his sophomore year. And last season, hampered by an ankle injury, he only caught 13 passes. 
"I came here with a lot of expectations and things haven't gone my way," he said. "I know what I can do and what I can bring to the table." 
Javin Hunter spent most of his sopl1omore season playing in Bobby Brown's shadow. \'\'hile lrn was in the receiver rotation and even started against Purdue, he only caught 13 passes. Last year, with fn~shman Matt Lovecchio at quarterback and the ankle injury, Javin Hunter was forced to sit on the sidelines and watch David Givens and Joey Getherall play in the spot­light. Frustration doesn't even begin to describe what Javin Hunter felt. 
"Injuries werQ the problem last year," he said. "But I really don't know what the problem was the other years. I felt I was a capable receiver and capable of doing other things." 
"We were in continuous com­munication," James Huntf'r said. "He was a little bit uncomfort­able with the team goals and things wen~ a little dim•rent from what we were told going in. But he never contemplated ]raving and he turned to people who could help him." 
While Javin Hunter wasn't ­

·and still isn't -critical of the coaching staff, he felt he deserved the opportunity to play more. But when he was injured, it gave players like Brown, GetheralJ and Givens more prac­tice time while he was confined to the sidelines. 

"There's no question he would 
have played more if he was 
healthy," Notre Dame offensive 
coordinator Kevin Rogers said. 
"He can make plays. He was 
making plays when he got hurt." 
Javin Hunter stayed in con­
stant communication with his 
parents, venting his frustration 
and explaining his situation. His 
parents reminded him to get an 
education first, then worry about 
football. The advice he received 
from his parents, and especially 
his father, who had been in simi­
lar situations, was particularly 
inspiring and kept him focused. 
"They told me to stay positive and things would stay positive," he said. "Things can't be bad for­ever." 
They were right. 
Breaking loose 
He doesn't really remember how it happened. lie doesn't know what was different. But all Javin Hunter knows is that he has emerged as <int~ of Notre Dame's top receivers this year. 
"He had a great spring and practicfld hard in the summer." said Notre Dame head coach Bob Davie. "And he·s healthy. I'm happy for him." 
''I've always had the capabili­ties to make plays," Javin Hunter said. "I haven't really changed any part of my game, and I've gotten better as the year has pro­grnssed. I could have done this stuff my sophomore or junior year." 
With injuries putting Givens and Arnaz Battle on the side­lines, Javin Hunter has quickly become Notre Dame's featured receivf'r. Through seven games, he has 31 catches -five more than he caught his freshman, sophomore and junior years 
combined. llis lone touchdown 
catch tied the score against 
Michigan State and he leads the 
team in receiving yards and 
receptions. He's been involved in 
two of Notre Dame's longest pass 
plays -a 42-yard catch from 
Carlyle Holiday against USC 
when he was tripped up on the 
1-yard line and a 29-yard catch 
from Givens against Boston 
College. And when the Irish are 
facing third and long, Javin 
Hunter frequently hears his 
number called in the huddle. 
"I don't mind being the fea­tured receiver, I relish that," he said. "That's what I want, that's what I came here, that's what I expect of myself'. and that's what I want to be." 
"In the past there was .hrny Getherall and Bobby Brown and those guys," Hogers said. "Now it's his turn." 
Looking ahead 
Perhaps the scariest thing about Javin Hunter is that nei­ther he nor the coaching staff believes he's gotten as good as he will be. 
"I haVf~n·t achieved my poten­tial. and I have a lot more plays I could be making that l haven't made," he said. "Timp has flown by. It's funny to think I only have four games left. You can't do a lot in four games, but you can help the team win. Maybe I can give you a glimpse of some of the thing-s I can do." 
"[ think his best football is still ahead of him," said Notre Dame head coach Bob Davie. "I think he'll go on to the next level and have a good career." 
Javin Hunter looks back on his timf' at Notre Dame with mixed feelings. He knows things haven't always gone his way. but he's not 
one to stop and complain about 
it. And with four games left, his 
focus is still on helping the team 
win, not personal dreams of 
glory. 
"I look back and say I've 
learned a lot of things here," he 
said. "It's been tough. I've been 
frustrated a lot of the times and 
I've been happy sometimes. But 
I've learned from my experiences 
_and try to get better and try to 
not get down on myself. I know 
my mentality and I know I'm a 
talented individual. That's my 
mentality -to keep working 
hard and keep pushing." 
Javin Hunter still believes he 
can make it in the NFL. He still 
wants to make a career out of 
playing football. And he said he 
honestly doesn't know what he's 
going to do if he doesn't make an 
NFL team next year -it's a 
thought he hasn't considered. 
"I think he has every opportu­nity to play in the NFL," James Hunter said. "There are things he has to improve, and I tell him that. There's a barometer NFL scouts use to measure players that looks at speed. quickness and things like that. He might not have the stats, but they'll look at the other things. He'll play in the NFL No question about it." 
Javin Hunter knows it will be a tough road to the NFL. \tVhat was once an easy dream for a child is now a challenging reality for an adult. But he's not the quitting type. Ile didn't give up hope when he didn't get the ball thrown his way. He didn't give up hope when he got injured. And he's not going to give up hope now. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 
. ,.,.. y
\r,~I> 
Friday, November 2, 2001 

page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 


Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish Record: 3-4 AP: Unranked 
Coaches: Unranked 

Davie head coach 

Bob Davie fifth season at Notre Dame career record: 
33-23 
at Notre Dame: 
33-23 
against Tennessee: 0-1 
Roster 
No. 
1 2 2 3 4 5 6 
7 
8 9 10 
10 
11 
12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 ' 22 23 24 24 25 26 28 28 30 31 32 
33 
34 
35 
35 36 
37 38 38 39 40 41 42 44 45 
46 
47 48 49 50 51 52 52 53 55 56 56 57 59 60 61 62 
63 
64 
65 
66 
67 69 70 72 73 75 76 
77 
78 79 80 
80 
81 82 82 83 
84 
85 86 87 
B8 
89 
90 
91 92 94 95 98 
99 
Name 
Jared Clark Carlos Pierre-Antoine DanNovakov Amaz Battle Justin Smith Ron Israel David Givens Carlyle Holiday Lorenzo Crawford Jason Beckstrom Matt LoVecchio Ryan Krueger Marcus Wilson Tony Fisher Nick Setta Gary Godsey Clifford Jefferson Abram Elam Joey Hildbold Ronnie Rodarner Glenn Earl Gerome Sapp Javin Hunter Julius Jones Chris Yura Cory Jones Chad DeBolt Ryan Grant Garron Bible Donald Dykes Cole Laux Rocky Boiman Dwayne Francis Terrance Howard Courtney Watson Vontez Duff David Miller 
Tim O'Neill Tom Lopienski Dwight Ellick Preston Jackson Eric Nelson Brand\m Hoyte Jason Murray Mike Goolsby Shane Walton Grant Irons MattSarb Corey Mays Mike McNair Justin Tuck Derek Curry Cedric Hilliard Tyreo Harrison Jeff Faine Mark Mitchell Jason Halvorson Zachary Giles John Crowther Pat Ryan Justin Thomas Brian Dierckman Darrell Campbell Jesse Desplinter Casey Robin Brennan Curlin Jeffrey Campbell SeanMilli~n JW Jordan Ryan Gillis Darin Mitchell Jim Molinaro Ryan Scarola Mark LeVoir Kurt Vollers John Teasdale Greg Pauly Jordan Black Sean Mahan AdamTibble Omar Jenkins Jcn)me Collins Bernard Akatu Matt Shelton Josh Gentine John Owens Billy Palmer Brendan Hart Jonathan Smith Carlos Campbel! Matt Root Brian Beidatsch Jeff Thompson Kyle Budinscak Andy Wisne Ryan Roberts Anthony Weaver Jason Sapp 

Pos.  Ht.  Wt.  YR  
QB  6-4  230  so  
fLB  6-3  241  SR  
QB  6-1  215  JR  
FL  6-1  210  SR  
FS  5-11  197  SR  
ss  6-1  212  SR  
FL  6-3  212  SR  
QB  6-3  218  so  
FL  5-10  190  so  
CB  5-10  186  JR  
QB  6-4  205  so  
QB  5-9  186  SR  
RB  5-11  180  FR  
TB  6-2  226  SR  
K/P  5-11  175  JR  
TE  6-6  270  JR  
CB  5-9  176  SR  
ss  6-0  210  so  
p  5-10  188  JR  
SE  6-4  210  so  
FS  6-1  210  JR  
ss  6-0  214  JR  
SE  6-0  191  SR  
TB  5-10  210  JR  
TB  6-0  225  JR  
RB  6-2  215  FR  
fLB  6-0,  202  SR  
RB  6-1  198  FR  
CB  5-10  191  so  
FS  5-11  195  SR  
TB  5-10  225  so  
OLB  6-4  240  SR  
FS  6-0  198  SR  
TB  6-1  195  SR  
!LB  6-1  232  JR  
CB  5-11  192  so  
K  S,,11  208  SR  
TB  5-5  175  SR  
FB.  6-1  249  SR  
CB  5-11  170  FR  
CB  5-9  176  so  
FB  6-0  225  SR  
ILB  6-0  219  FR  
FB  6-1  260  SR  
LB  6-3  240  so  
CB  5-11  186  SR  
DE  6-5  275  SR  
ss  5-11  200  SR  
ILB  6-1  2..14  FR  
fB  6-U  237  SR  
OLB  6-5  215  FR  
ILB  6-3  228  so  
NG  6-2  290  JR  
ILB  6-2  242  SR  
C  6-3  296  JR  
OLB  5-10  200  SR  
DL  6-2  240  JR  
OL  6-4  285  FR  
C  6-2  242  SR  
ILB  6-3  231  JR  
OLB  6-1  245  JR  
ILB  6-1  250  SR  
DT  6-4  296  JR  
LB  6-1  177  so  
oc  6-7  300  SR  
OT  6-8  305  JR  
DE  6-1  230  SR  
oc  6-4  295  JR  
C  6-1  275  SR  
oc  6-3  2%  JR  
OL  6-4  285  FR  
OT  6-6  295  JR  
0G  6-5  ·308  SR  
TE  6-7  310  FR  
OT  6-7  312  SR  
OT  6-5  305  SR  
DT  6-6  208  so  
OT  6-6  318  SR  
OT  6-3  292  SR  
K  5-11  186  SR  
WR  6-2  180  FR  
OLB  6-4  242  so  
SE  5-10  190  SR  
WR  6-1  170  FR  
KIP  5-11  205  JR  
TE  6-3  260  SR  
TE  6-3  265  so  
TE  6-2  255  so  
WR  6-4  195  so  
WR  6-1  190  FR  
TE  6-6  225  FR  
DL  6-4  265  FR  
DL  6-5  265  FR  
DE  6-4  265  so  
DT  6-3  285  SR  
DE  6-2  262  SR  
DE  6-3  286  SR  
DE  6-3  2S0  so  

NOTRE DAME 
2001 Schedule 
Sept. 8  at Nebraska -L  
Sept. 22  Michigan St. -L  
Sept. 29  at Texas A&M -L  
Oct. 6  Pittsburgh ­ W  
Oct. 13  Yf. Virginia ­ W  
Oct. 20  c;~  USC-W  

Oct. 27 at Boston College -L Nov. 3 Tennessee Nov. 17 Navy Nov. 24 at Stanford Dec. 1 at Purdue 
COACHING 
LLI 
:E 
ct 
C 
LLI 0:: 
t­
o 
z 
LLI 
LLI 
(/) (/) 
LLI 
z 
z 
LLI 
I­
(/)
-
(/) ~ 
ct 
z 
ct 

NJTFECWA: 
CfFB'S: 
CORNERBACK 
33-GNw

TAILBACK 
12-Gaines

12-Flsher 
22-Jones 

LEFT GU 

M 
79-Mahan 
~~.iZRBACK 67-Gillls 
1Q...loV: RIGlifENO 
--, 8-llllrrnirP,
_;,.-£1 ~ 
r ' 

FULLBAC 
~ 
40-MurTaV . 
RIGHT 
GUARD 
7Mlack 
65-Mllllgan 

· RIGHT TACKLE 
75-Vollsrs 
70-.Molinaro 
' ' 
, ' 
' h 
1/ 
KLE ~ 
•hYn•..worffl 
- oot  '  -' - 
.  /  /  . '  - 
~a<-'  :,.  
A  :  ,,  1  
.  . ·..  -"  ~~~l:1::f ::~~ l.B'T··­ -- ~· j\  

) STRONG 
, SAFETY
.. ,,••.>;::·::.·_·•a:..
FLANKER 
14-Baffle
&-Givens 
9-Marsh ,,.,

3-BattJe --: . ,,. "' _.:··=·-­
·: ,,, '.j.. 
LEFT · ' · 
56-Jackaon . ll1-Hand · , • ·­
TENNESSEE ·Lr:) 
·DEFENSE ·~fJ


QUARTERBACKS IRISH RUSHING IRISH PASSING 
When Lovecchio got sacked last week, moving companies starting mak­ing bids for the Davie household. And things don't get any better for the head coach as three of Notre Dame's last four games are against oppo­nents ranked in the BCS standings.  Despite leaving Saturday's game with a bruised right knee, Holiday is still expected to start Saturday. He's been the sparkplug of the Irish offense since he took over five games ago. In the last four gamf:~s. he's led the Irish in rush­ing yards.  Fisher will be back on the field for the Irish this week, and they'll need him. While Jones and Howard have been ,adequate, they've fum­bled the ball at key points. With Fisher back, Holiday will be that much more danger­ous.  Holiday looks better each week throwing the ball, but he'll have to go long this week for the Irish to stay in the game. Hunter, Givens and Battle are all potential threats if they get the ball thrown their way. ..  

Fulmer has the highest winning percentage of any active head coach. Not fifth. Not third. No. 1. Enough said.  Clausen wins games with his arm, not his legs. Over the last four games, he's averaging passing yards. He's thrown seven touch­downs and five intercep­tions. However, he's only gained 60 rushing yards the entire year.  To describe the Volunteers run defense as dominant would be doing it a gross disservice. They've only given up one rushing touchdown all season and allow an average of 82 rushing yards per game. Henderson won the Outland Trophy last year.  They're good, but they're not great. The Volunteers secondary gives up more than 200 passing yards per game and has only picked off four passes all year.  
Notre Dame has the potential to exploit (fennetset's seeo,qarf,~~~~7.l{,~:t:~:t!~~~tit. But Notre Dame's pass­ing game hasn't shown it can be a dominant part of the offense.  
Davie's in a virtual free­fall right now. While his team looks much better now tbflt'they dtd''earlier in "fne season, theY're not good enough. Fulmer's team is riding high, while Davie's troops are looking for answers.  Holiday and Clausen ~anc~J e,cb.: othqr o~t. l~Q.ij.§ is aJtri1t1en(JOµ~)y ~thlett,t runnell'.~ \be {other is''a superb throw­er. Both are good, quali­ty quarterbacks.  Tennessee is simply too big,µp'1rdnt rof'~iheJ,rish to run through, and they're too quick on the outside for the Irish to run around.  


On paper this game is a mismatch to the Notre Dame has success running the ball ­scale of a high school bully versus a second 
against bad defenses. And Tennessee is anything grader. But Notre Dame has more talent 
but a bad defense. The Volunteers will shut than most 3-4 teams. Holiday will throw
Irish 

down the Irish running game completely. While surprisingly well. The defense keeps Notre 
Holiday's arm will keep things interesting and 

Dame in the game. But in the end, the 
the Irish defense will contain Stephens and ranked tflam comes ahead where it counts. 
Clausen somewhat, Tennessee won't have any
experts 
problem winning this one.

FINAL SCORE: Tennessee 20 
Noah Amstadter Notre Dame 13 Andrew Soukup 
FINAL SCORE: Tennessee 31 sports editor associate sports editor Notre Dame 17 
:...ti.-~ 

Friday, November 2, 200 I page 5 
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 

Tennessee 
Volunteers 
Record: 5-1 

CORNERBACK 
34-Dvff 
15-Jefferson 

FULLBACK 
45-Bartholomew 
~27-Flemlng 
34-Stephen&
21-Houston 
INSIDE LINEBACKER 
51-Hal'NOff 

2-Pierm­RIGHT TACKLE 
Antoine
73-0fenhevsl 
59-McClure 

STRONG
TIGHTEND T 

SAFETY 
20-S.pp 
!>-Israel
~~ au-t.iilltlll>'-IIIF 
OUTSIDE .JI LINEBACKER~-:'...) 
30-Bolman
KER 
81-Collina

.Plll'iler 
CORNERBACK 1 ,
1-Graham 
42-Walton c. J) 1 
9-Seckstrom c..J 


VOLUNTEER RUSHING VOLUNTEER PASSING SPECIAL TEAMS 
They've silenced most of  Despite missing his first  
Lately, the Irish defen­sive front has had a lot of trouble stopping the run. With Wisne out again, Hilliard, Roberts and Budinscak will have to step up against anoth­er tough tailback.  their critics, but this week, the Irish sec­ondary will face its toughest test of the sea­son. Walton and Duff have been fairly solid at cornerback, but the safe­ty position has been a game of musical chair  field goal last week, Setta has still been solid kick­ing the ball. Hildbold has cooled off a bit, but he can still bury the opposi­tion. And the return game, while not as domi­nant as last season, is still giving the Irish  With Davie 3-4, Notre Dame fans are on edge. All Davie said the Irish can do is play the spoiler role. It's tough to say if the Notre Dame mys­tique will even be pre­sent on Saturday, much less a factor.  
due to injuries.  decent field position.  
Stephens averages 145 yards per game and a little under five yards a carry. Their offensive line is experienced, too -two seniors, two juniors, and a third-year sophomore.  This is where Clausen is at his best -throwing the ball. After being injured for the first three games of the year, Stallworth is back in action and has a pair of touchdown catch­es. Washington is the Volunteers leading receiv­er, and he doesn't even start.  Finally -a weakness! Walls has missed four of his 11 field goal«; this sea­son, and Colquitt is only averaging 36.9 yards per punt. Scott is averaging less than 20 yards on each kickoff return.  Being the No. 7 team in the nation has its perks. Tennessee is in the midst of a championship season. Saturday after­noon, Notre Dame's campus will be filled with orange-clad fans looking for another big win.  
Davie compared Stephens to Boston Colleg,e!,s Green, and that's not a good "Sig11. Green ran all over the Irish, and there's no indication that Stephens won't be able to do the same.  The Irish won't be able to use nickel packages because Tennessee runs a much .more balanced offense than Pittsburgh and West Virginia. The Irish will have to contain the run, and that means Clausen will be able to open up. And Walton.can't guard every receiver.  Setta should be able to give the Irish points if they can get close enough ­he was hittilig 60-yard kicks in priictf-(:e at Boston. SpeeialJ~}BJlS has been Notre fiaml~'s strong poi11t.thl$ ~ason, and thef'have tlft! edge here.  The Irish are down, but you can't diSC(}Unt their ~e~~~~~i¾ t:":'':o~r1~ la.bout b~ing\overcorift­dent. Notre Dame is 3-4, but they have the poten­tial to be dangerous.  


_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_ 

The Irish defense still has Boston College tail­back Willie Greene running past them in its nightmares. Luckily, Friday night will be the end of the Greene nightmares. Saturday night Travis Stephens will be terrorizing the Irish in their sleep after he runs all over them Saturday afternoon. 
FINAL SCORE: Tennessee 45 Notre Dame 17 
TENNESSEE 2001 Schedule 
Sept. 1  Syracuse-W  
Sept. 8  at Arkansas ­ W  
Sept. 29  LSU-W  
Oct. 6  Georgia -L  

Oct. 20 ,.-~ at Alabama -W Oct. 27 South Carolina -W Nov. 3 at Notre Dame Nov. 1O Memphis Nov. 17 at Kentucky Nov. 24 Vanderbilt Dec. 1 at Florida 
INTANGIBLES 
z 
0 
-I 
:a 
rr, 
C 
)>
s: 
rr, 
-I 
m 
z 
z 
~ 
tn 
rr, 
m 
l> 
z 
)> 
!:c 
tn 
en 
AP: No. 7 
Coaches: No. 7 
Phil Fulmer 10th year at Tennessee career record: 
89-19 
at Tennessee 
89-19 

Fulmer
against Notre 
head coach
Dame: 0-0 
Roster  
No.  NamePos.  Ht.  Wt.  YR  
l  Jason Witten  DE  6-5  265  so  
2  Kevin Burnett  LB  6-3  214  so  
3  Willie Miles  DB  6-0  175  SR  
4  Donte Stallworth  WR  6-1  190  JR  
5  Kevin Simon  LB  5-11  225  FR  
6 7  Constantin RitzmannDE Casey Clausen QB  6-4 6-4  252 210  JR so  
8 9 10  Joey Mathews Steven Marsh Mark Jones  QB DB DB  6-3 6-1 5-9  215 180 171  JR JR so  
11  Bobby Graham  WR  6-0  185  SR  
12  Teddy Gaines  DB  6-0  175  SR  
13  Tad Golden  DB  6-1  195  SR  
14 15  Julian Battle Kelley Washington  DB QB  6-3 6-3  205 215  JR FR  
16 17  Rashad Baker CJ. Fayton  WR QB  5-11 6-2  180 190  so FR  
18  Lee Wheeler  DB  5-10  164  FR  
19 20  Alex Walls Derrick Tinsley  PK RB  6-1 6-0  175 180  JR FR  
21  Cedric Houston  RB  6-0  205  FR  
22  Robert Boulware  DB  5-10  185  FR  
23  Corey Larkins  DB  5-8  190  FR  
24 25  Charles Small Tony Campbell  DB LB  6-0 6-3  185 191  JR so  
26 27  Leonard Scott Troy Heming  RB FB  5-11 6-2  170 220  JR so  
28  Dom Stevenson  LB  6-0  220  SR  
29  O.J.Owens  LB  6-0  186  FR  
30  Andre Lott  DB  5-11  185  SR  
31  Jabari Davis  RB  6-0  230  FR  
33  Jabari Greer  DB  5-10  170  so  
34  Travis Stephens  RB  5-9  190  SR  
35  Jason Mitchell  LB  6-1  215  FR  
36 37 38 39 40  Buck Fitzgerald Eddie Moore Seth Reagan Andre James Keldrick Williams  DB LB P/H LB RB  5-9 6-0 6-2 6-2 5-10  180 210 185 218 200  SR JR JR SR PR  
41  Robert Peace  LB  6-3  230  so  
42  Shannon Benton  DB  5-10  185  FR  
43  Chris Heath  DB  6-0  185  FR··  
44  William Revill  LB  6-1  215  FR  
45 46 47  Will Bartholomew Karlton Neal Dustin Colquitt  RB LB p  6-0 6-4 6-2  232 237 196  SR FR FR  
48 50  Thomas Stallworth Keyon Whiteside  LB LB  6-2 6-2  220 230  SR JR  
51  Andre Taylor  OT  6-3  280  PR  
53  Sudan Ellington  LB  6-3  225  FR  
55  Terriea Smalls  0G  6-3  310  so  
56  Bernard Jackson  DE  6-4  255  SR  
57  Ovince St. Preux  DE  6-3  210  FR  
58 59  Rashad Moore Victor McClure  OT DE  6-4 6-4  290 210  JR so  
60 63 64  Chavis Smith Jason Resper! Scott Wells  DT C C  6-3 6-3 6-2  285 305 287  so so so  
65  Dan Stacey  DS  6-3  245  SR  
66  Sean Young  OT  6-7  305  so  
67 69  Chuck Prugh Jeremy Hayes  0G . DB  6-3 5-11  318 210  so so  
70  Fred Weary  C  6-4  301  SR  
71 73 74  Reggie Coleman Will Ofenheusle Richie Gandy  OT OT OL  6-5 6-8 6-5  315 320 295  SR JR FR  
75 76  Anthony Herrera Paul Monroe  0G OT  6-4 6-6  300 335  JR PR  
71 78 79  Michael Munoz Guillaume Dwnont Reggie Ridley  OT OT OG  6-6 6-4 6-4  310 285 280  so FR JR  
80 81 82  Eric Parker Tony Brown Michael Collins  WR WR WR  6-0 6-3 6-6  172 181 215  SR FR FR  
83  Courtney Rogers  TE  6-3  235  FR  
84 85  Jomo Fagan Eli Jones  WR WR  6-2 6-2  175 185  FR SR  
86  Montrell Jones  WR  6-2  185  FR  
87  Justin Reed  p  6-6  240  FR  
88  Jermaine Kent  WR  6-2  185  JR  
90  Will Overstreet  DE  6-4  260  SR  
91 92  Ornari Hand DE Albert Haynesworth DT  6-5 6-6  255 310  JR JR  ,.,.,  
93  Edward Kendrick  DT  6-4  265  JR  
94  Ed Butler  TE  6-3  260  SR  
95 96  Demetrian Veal John Finlayson  DE TE  6-3 6-4  275 275  JR SR  
97  Kevin Young  DE  6-4  255  so  
98  John Henderson  DT  6-7  290  SR  
99  Aubrayo Franklin  DT  6-2  290  JR  



Kerry Smith assistant managing editor 
Davie said it: Notre Dame has been reduced to the spoil­er. But the only thing being spoiled Saturday will be Notre Dame's desperate attempt for a morale-raising win against a ranked team in front of a home crowd. No. 7 Tennessee has too much talent and too much on the line to lose this one. Stephens and Clausen will be dou­ble trouble for the Irish. 
FINAL SCORE: Tennessee 34 Notre Dame 17 
================================---~---=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=-----------------------------------­
page 6 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 2, 2001 
Does another Remember November loom? 
The Texans remembered arguably the worst of the ranked Volun-teers the ting, junior center Jeff the Alamo in their battle five. Irish face two other top-Faine said he has started against the Mexicans. The four-15 Bowl to see some of this year's American soldiers charged game losing Cham­freshmen and sophomores
The Irish have failed 
to battle in Cuba to streak began pionship slacking off a bit. And Remem­witha38-14 to win a game in Series Faine isn't going to toler­ber the 
throttling by November only five teams -ate that. 
Maine: Tennessee. Stanford .. My freshman year
times in the 113
Two The frish .and [ 19991 was pretty rough 
years looked com­years ofIrish football. Purdue. here," Fame sa1'd. "I
. saw ago, Bob pletely out of Davie's 1999 four­Only the what happened and I Davie their league. Nov. 17 don't want to go back
game skid was
urged They were game down-that path. There are
arguably the worst of
his out-muscled, against some guys, especially the troops out-run and the five. Navy young guys who think the to out-coached. seems season is over. We can
Mike Connolly

Remem-It was thor-like a still turn this season ber oughly embarrassing. sure win. around with four more Novem­After that loss, things only But \Yhat happens if the wins. You've got to
Outside

ber. got worse. Irish are trounced by the bounce back. You can't
Looking In 

..They The life was gone from Volunteers again this ever accept losing." won't the team after the loss to Saturday'? Would another If the Irish start to remem-the Volunteers. The ener­loss to Tennesse(1 spark a accept losing, this will be ber what you did in gy and confidence that free fall to 3-8? the November to September," Davie said in seemed to build in a four­The players say that Remember as the free fall 1999. "They might win October was could never to Davie's remember what you did in destroyed on November happen. This dismissal at
Ifthe Irish start to
October. But they will cer­night in Knoxville. year's team the end of taiI)ly remember And now Davie's troops has more accept losing. this will the year. November." stand once heart than But if the
be the November to 
And again facing the 1999 Irish have
What happens ifthe Remember that led to
Davie's the Volunteers Irish. heart. if the troops, rid­Irish are trounced by to begin a dif­"That team Davie's dismissal at Irish have ing a four­the Volunteers again ficult was different the end ofthe year. pride, ff the game win­November. from this Irish don't
this Saturday?
ning streak Will this be year -some quit, it just charged into Would a November to guys quit a little bit, some might be a November to perhaps the another loss spark a Remember? guys didn't want to go to a Remember for all the most forget­Or another bowl game," senior wide right reasons.
free fall to 3-8? 
table November receiver Javin Hunter November Nightmare? said. "The seniors this in Notre If Davie's year, we want to go to a Mike Connolly can be Dame history. The Irish troops do run the table bowl game. A lot of guys reached at have failed to win a game beginning with an upset of want to play a part in this Connolly.28@nd.edu. The in Novemher only five Tennessee Saturday. it thing. A lot of guys want views of this column are times in the 113 years of will certainly be a to win hard." those of the author and Irish football. Davie's November to Remember. But while Hunter said are not necessarily those 1999 four-game skid was Following the seventh-the seniors aren't quit-of The Observer. 
game hype 


l 
i 
j 
l 
Ps s s. . . Keith Scott is co ming to p I a y some b I u es. And it' s free . 
Bob Davie Irish head coach 
"You don't ever really want to get accustomed to losing ... 

Kevin Rogers Irish offensive coordinator 
7They have al tough scheme. We'll have to be at the top ofour game to get that slowed down ... "We have an opportunity to jump up and maybe in some ways be the spoiler. .. 

Jeff Faine Irish lineman 
"Their two defensive tack­les are gigantic. They're going to cause some problems." 

Phil Fulmer Volunteer head coach 


.,/ 
. ' 
' 


Friday, November 2, 2001 A LOOK AT THIS WEEKEND'S COLLEGE FOOTBALL ACTION page 7 
points 1,783 1,745 1,596 1,587 1,522 1,374 
1,323 1,218 1,214 
1,074 1;012 981 972 
822 
659 605 598 462 459 428 406 319 316 279 218 

GAME OF THE WEEK 

AFP Stanford quarterback Chris Lewis eludes Oregon's defense during the Cardinal victory against the Ducks last weekend. Lewis will start just his second career college game this weekend against Washington. 
Cardinal, Huskies battle for Pac-Ten lead 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 
17 
18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 
AP poll 
team Miami (55) Nebraska (17) Oklahoma Florida Texas Michigan Tennessee Oregon UCla Stanford Washington Virginia Tech 
BYU 
Florida State Maryland Washington State South Carolina Georgia Syracuse Purdue Illinois North Carolina Georgia Tech Texas A&M Colorado 

record 6-0 9-0 7-1 
6-1 7-1 6-1 
5-1 7-1 6-1 5-1 6-1 6-1 8-0 5-2 7-1 7-1 6-2 5-2 7-2 5-1 6-1 5-3 5-2 71 6-2 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
9 
10 11 12 13 14 15 16 
17 
18 
19 
20 21 22 23 24 25 

ESPN/USA Today poll 
team Miami (46) Nebraska (14} Florida Oklahoma
. 
Texas Michigan Tennessee 
BYU 
Oregon Washington UCLA Virginia Tech Stanford Florida State Purdue Maryland Texas A&M Illinois Washington State South Carolina Georgia Tech Syracuse Georgia Clemson Colorado 

record points 6-0 1,486 9-0 1,454 6-1 1,308 7-1 1,263 7-1 1,259 6-1 1,186 5-1 1,112 8-0 999 
7-1 963 6-1 953 6-1 936 6-1 925 s~1 719
' 

5-2 704 5-1 541 7-1 510 7-1 411 6-1 402 7-1 386 6-2 360 5-2 330 7-2. 286 5-2 239 5-2 160 6-2 145 
By GREG lADKY Sports Writer 
No. 10 Stanford will bat­tle No. 11 Washington this Saturday for a share of first place in the Pac-Ten. Both teams are 4-1 in the con­ference, along with No. 8 Oregon and No. 16 Washington State. 
No. 9 UCLA (3-1 Pac-Ten) plays at Washington State Saturday. 
Stanford's only loss of the season came at Washington State. Since then. the Cardinal won back to back games against top five ranked opponents (Oregon and UCIA) for the first time in school history. Quarterback Randy Fasani is still out after spraining his ankle during the Oregon game. He is expect­ed back for the game against Notre Dame Thanksgiving weekend. 
But there is no drop off with backup Chris Lewis in the game. 
"You always think you might have a little advan­tage playing the second team quarterback, but all he is done is complete 70 percent of his passes," Washington coach Rick Neuheisel said. "We are going to have to play a great football game." 
Lewis has actually com­pleted 56 percent of his passes, but led the Cardinal in its victories against Oregon and UClA. 
Fourth-quarter come­backs are the story for the Washington Huskies for the second-straight year. John Anderson kicked a 30-yard field goal as time expired in their 33-31 win at Arizona State last weekend. This year, three of the Huskies' four conference victories have come on the last offensive play. 
Last year, Washington beat Stanford 31-28 on Marques Tuiasosopo's 22­yard touchdown pass to Justin Robbins with 17 sec­onds left. 
Watch out for Washington nose tackle Larry Triplett. He is one of the nation's best players. He was nominated Tuesday as a semifinalist for the Lombardi award, given annually to the nations' best lineman or linebacker that best exemplifies the discipline of Vince Lombardi. 
Stanford must play well in the fourth quarter. History says if the Huskies hang around long enough, they will pull it out in the fourth quarter. 
-

Eye on lrlsh Opponents 
Saturday NEBRASKA (9-0) at Kansas Illinois at PURDUE (5-1) MICHIGAN STATE (4-2) at Michigan TEXAS A&M (7-1) at Texas Tech Virginia Tech at PITTSBURGH (2-5) Rutgers at WEST VIRGINIA (2-5) Oregon State at USC (3-5) STANFORD (5-1) al Washington 
Off 
BOSTON COLLEGE (6·2) 
NAVY (0-7) 

around the dial 
Tennessee at Notre Dame Illinois at Purdue LSU at Alabama Michigan at Michigan State Ohio State at Minnesota Arkansas at Mississippi 
2:30 p.m., NBC 
noon,ESPN 

3:30 a.m., ABC 
3:30 p.m., CBS 
7:45, ESPN 7:00 p.m., ESPN2 
OTHER TOP GAMES 
Michigan at Michigan State 
Saturday's game between No. 6 Michigan and Michigan State is the first of many great interstate battles in the month of November. 
Michigan controls their own destiny being the only undefeated team in the Big Ten. 
But the Wolverines were nearly upset by a much­improved Iowa team last weekend. The \Volverines came from 13 down to win 32-26. 
The key to this weekend's game will be running the football. The team that won the rushing battle has won 31 of the last 32 games between these two schools. 
The Wolverines will throw the nation's top run defense at Spartan super running back T.J. Duckett, who ran for 186 yards and two touchdowns in a 42-28 win over Wisconsin last weekend. 
However, Michigan's defensive backfield has some holes, at least compared to its dominant front seven. The defensive backs must cover the big and fast Spartan wide rnceivers. Charles Hogcrs is quickly becoming one of the better players in the nation. lle had five catches for 206 yards and two touchdowns last Saturday. 
Illinois at Purdue 
No. 21 Illinois and No. 20 Purdue will clash for second place in the Big Ten Saturday. The winner will still have a chance to pass Michigan for first place and a BCS birth. Both teams have one loss this year, each to the Wolverines. 
Kurt Kittner, the Big Ten's top passer, threw for 401 yards and four touchdowns in a 42-35 win against 'Wisconsin. · 
Wide receiver Brandon Lloyd could be the comeback player of the year. Ile is second in the Big Ten with 701 yards. He missed last season with a broken leg. The offensive line has been great, giving up just seven sacks this year. 
Purdue will put pressure on Illinois' offensive line with a strong front seven, led by Akin Ayodele. Sophomore Stu -Schweigert has quickly developed into one of the best safetif~s in the country. 
Purdue quarterback Brandon Hance continues to improve. Purdue figures to be an extremely well bal­anced football team by the time Notre Dame shows up Dec. 1. 

___, ~------,.,-,--­
-------~--------,.------·-·· 
·11 l...t.,i> 
· )1 page 8 The Observer . ADVERTISEMENT Friday, November 2, 200 I 
' it,, ......, -=---=======================================================::::::=========================================================== 
:: l1 

,i ' \ ' ' 
' ' 
I 
A Million Reasons A Single Store ® 
\ 

ENTER TO WIN One Stop Shopping
,\ 
. i\ 
'1 
One Lucky Winner Will Receive The Opportunity For all your To Attend a Notre Dame Football Practice 
tailgating needs 
+ hot & cold drinks • coolers 
• 
chips • snacks • ice 

• 
hot dogs + hamburgers 


+ fried chicken . sausage 
• sandwiches + deli trays 

-;i\ 
. bread 

. buns

11 ., 
. salads 

il Enter betwet 
• blankets 

1 



• 
l 
J 
l I 
f 
( 
I 
I 
I 
' 
{ ' 
I 
~ 
At the Team Notre Dame Display 
. 
hats/gloves 

• 
chairs 



• accessories . 
*Exclusive to Meijer* 

*Game day attire · 

*Car flags *Window clings *Irish Sweatshirts & T-Shirts *Football Yearbooks 
-...., 
*ND Women's Championship Basketball Videos 


Visit us at: 
5020 Grape road 3600 n. portage road 
pen 24/7 for all your shopping need 









