
Burning desires
PARTLY 

Wednesday

CLOUDY FTT's advanced directing final project "Burn This" explores desires while keeping the audience center stage. NOVEMBER 14,
HIGH 63° 

Scene . page 10-11 
2001
LOW 52° 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 51 


Students confront tailgating policy 

By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER 
Assistant News Ediror 

Three students spoke out about student tailgating and the University's alcohol policy at a town hall meeting Tuesday night spon­sored by Student Government. 
One student attributed the volume of stu­dents who tailgate to the fact that there are no activities geared toward students on game days and while all of the students voiced con­cern about students being cited who were not drinking at parties. _ 
"I think that a lot of the underclassmen tend to follow the upperclassmen to the tail­gates because there's nothing to do on cam­pus," said senior Molly Norton, who lives off­campus. "I think if donns did stuff like going to watch the band as a dorm, it would encourage underage students to stay on campus, but the dorms are pretty much all shut down and locked up, which encourages students to go to the fields and tailgate." 
Norton said she recognized there are activ­ities on game days, such as the College of Arts and Letters lecture series and the band's concert on the steps, but said these activities are not attractive to students. She said that instead of locking the entrances to the dorms on game days, officials should encourage activities in the dorms, such as an open house. 
A junior from Carroll Hall, who did not want to be identified by name, said he was concerned by the fact that students who were not drinking had been cited. 
"Ifyou just stop by to talk to fiiends and a cop comes by, he could 'Mite you up. Even though you didn't organize the tailgate, pro­vide alcohol or drink, you could still be cited," he said. 
All agreed that the threat of citation would discourage students who used the tailgates as an opportunity to socialize from going tail­gating, but not students who set out to drink. 
"The ones who are drinking will go any­way, and the ones who won't drink ... are going to be afraid to go. Many times students just go to tailgates to hang out with people. The ones who aren't drinking might be afraid they'll get in trouble," the Carroll junior said. 
More students have attended previous town hall meetings. Student body president 
see POLICY/page 4 
Club panel offers internship tips 
ByJENNIE BUEHLER Nc:ws Wrirc:r 
The Saint Mary's Young Executives Oub pre­sent.ed an internship panel Tuesday evening to a small group of students .. 
The eight-member panel led by Siobhan Murphy consisted of students who had previous­ly held internship ~itions with different com­panies. They thoroughly discussed all aspects of getting an internship, and gave advice on 'Mit­ing resumes and cover letters as well as how to prepare for interviews. 
Basic information on how to write a good resume, what to include and what to highlight was covered. They emphasized the importance 
~ of handing your resume out for professors, friends, parents and others to review. 
"I think people have a lot of different ideas, I gave my resume to my brother-in-law, my pro­fessor, and others to get different ideas and sug­gestions," said Murphy. 
Resume formats vary for different areas of 
see INTERNS/page 4 

HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


Club fares better after inspection 

By HELENA PAYNE 

Assistant News Editor 
· During a follow-up inspection. the 
University Club's dining area 
received a good report from the St. 
Joseph County Health Department. 
Health code violations discovered 
during an earlier inspection were 
corrected for the Oct. 31 review. 
"Overall, it was a very good 
report," said Rita Hooton, assistant 
food service supervisor of the St. 
Joseph County Health Department. 
The follow-up inspection was in 
response to the health department's 

•first visit on Oct. 16 when an inspector found raw meat on top of µans of cooked food, as well as sev­eral temperature violations. After the Oct. 16 inspection, the depart­ment wrote a letter of enforcement to the University Club that advised it to improve its food service condi­tions within 10 days for the next inspection. 
The recently released results of 
the second visit show that the 
University Club had fixed all of its 
temperature problems, but the 
inspector did notice some areas for 
improvement. 
"They had three critical [viola­
tions], but it was better than what 
they had before," said Hooton. 
The critical violations were raw 
fish stored over cooked fish, the 
absence of a date marked on prod­
ucts in the walk-in cooler and an 
unlabeled container. The University 
Club staff resolved these problems 
as they were notified during the 
inspection. which is why they 
received a good report, Hooton said. 
"If most of the violations have 
been corrected. then that's a good 
report," said Hooton. "If they can be 
corrected while we 're there, they 
need to be corrected -and as soon 
as possible." 

After the first inspection, the University Club staff raised con­cerns in a letter of response about the inspector's failure to immedi­ately identify herself when she entered the private club's dining area. Health officer for St. Joseph County, Dr. Janice Carson has dis­cussed the circumstances with the inspector. Carson said the inspector waited for the host at the entrance of the University Club so that she could introduce herself but no one from the Club was around to meet her. 
"She told us that no one was there," Carson said. "l reminded her that the University Club is a pri­vate club and in the future she needs to make sure she waits a suf­ficient amount of time." 
The inspector told Carson that she 
see HEALTH/page 4 


Wednesday, November 14, 200 I

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Cotnprehending a complex world 
It's that time of the year again. DARTing starts today and it's time to make some choices. For seniors and juniors it means taking our final required classes, taking the MCATs, LSATs and GREs while looking for grad­
uate schools or a place in the workforce. For sophomores and freshmen it means mak­ing decisions that will impact the rest ofyour studies at Notre Dame. 
Deciding on a major along with what classes to take ulti­mately goes hand in hand. Choosing your classes should 


revolve around your major, Angela Campos but also your interests. For example, if you're a history major and you need a history Lab Tech elective you could take Medieval Spain: Land of 3 Religions or 20th Century German History. 
Every major has is benefits, but I particularly like anthropology. 
Anthropology caught my eye because of its diversity and ability to encompass all aspects of humanity. There are four general areas of concen­tration in anthropology: archaeological, biological, cultural and linguistic. As a major, I've had the opportunities to study everything from making stone tools and learning about human evolution to studying religion, language, and culture. 
But anthropology isn't entirely about digging up artifacts. It's learning about how people have evolved and how they live from day to day. It's taking a comprehensive look. at our complex world. Anthropology looks at the social, ecological, political, religious, artistic, economic and technical dimensions of humanity. 
So, as an anthropology major, you can take your interests and run with them. 
For me, my interests lie in languages -acquisi­tion, development and language families. As a major, I have been able to take courses that relate to language, whether directly, like Intro to Linguistic Anthropology, or indirectly, as in a cul­tural course like Societies and Cultures of South Asia. By taking several language courses over the past two years, I've been able to maneuver my electives to incorporate them with my interests. 
Anthropology at Notre Dame began its first aca­demic year as an independent department in 1981 with six faculty and 12 students. At the end ofthe 2000/2001 academic year, the Department of Anthropology had 15 full time faculty, four faculty sharing joint appointments, two visiting research fellows and 350 students majoring or minoring in anthropology. In the last two decades the depart­ment has had a growth and development unparal­leled in any other university. 
I've learned a lot as an anthropology major. I plan on taking the things I've learned in anthro­pology and applying them to my intended gradu­ate study in linguistics. Anthropology accom­plished what other humanities majors could not ­it offered me the opportunity to study languages for the purpose ofcomparative analysis. For you, maybe it could be the study of people in cities to see how population density affects the economy. Or a study of how relationships between a mother and child affect the development and growth of the child, both socially and physically. 
Find out. Take that step. Indulge your interests. Explore your world. 
Angela Campos can be contacted at cam­pos.2@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS/ CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for ,he highesl standards ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a misrake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
Thr Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Auociatcd Press. All reproduction righu are reserved. 
THIS WEEK AT NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S 
Thursday  Friday  
. Lecture: Education on  . Bingo:  ND room in  
peace and war discus­ Lafortune, 11 -1:30 a.m.  
sions, Morrissey,  
Keenan/Stanford, PE,  
McGlinn, 7:30 -9 p.m.  

Saturday 
. Open Karaoke : 
Lafortune Huddle, 10 • 
11:30 p.m. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports


BEYOND CAMPUS 


Lecture Fund accuses paper of biassed coverage 
WASHINGTON D.C. 
The Georgetown University Lecture 
Fund has submitted an editorial let­ter to the Washington Times in response to its article covering for­mer President Bill Clinton's speech at ·Georgetown last Wednesday. The article "both misrepresented factual aspects of the events and misinter­preted Mr. Clinton's remarks," 
according to the Lecture Fund. 

The Nov. 8 article, "Clinton Calls 
Terror a U.S. Debt to Past," stated 
that the former president said 
America is "paying a price today" for 
slavery and for looking "the other 
way when a significant number of 
Native Americans were dispossessed 
and killed." It focused on several 
statements by the former president 
that referred to America's history of terrorism against slaves and Native Americans. 

The Lecture Fund's letter asserts that The Times article demonstrated a different focus compared to other nationally reputed news sources such as the Associated Press and CNN. 
"I don't think [Clinton's] intention was to say that we're paying a price for past terrorist acts today," Andrew Konesch usky, Lecture Fund vice 
YALE UNIVERSITY 

Online alliance reaches crossroads 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. 
The announcement last September seemed innocu­ous enough: Oxford, Princeton, Stanford and Yale Universities were each pitching in $3 million to offer a few online courses for alumni, with vague promises of a broader scope in the future. All four universities already boasted some form of distance or alumni edu­cation; at Yale, the Association of Yale Alumni had been offering online courses for two years. This Alliance for Lifelong Learning would share knowledge and risk. But, a year later, with 394 students across the globe packing into the first 10 classes, the honey­moon is coming to an end. Thursday's surprising news that Princeton would be leaving the alliance, coupled with continued ambiguity about who should be able to take the Alliance's courses, at what price, and for how much credit, hint at the battles to come. At the heart of it all is Herbert Allison. Last October, Allison came on board as chief executive officer for the Alliance. 


LOCAL WEATHER 

5 Day South Bend Forecast 

Aca.i\\eather•forecast for daytime conditions and high terqierallJ.res 

Sunday 
. Performance: ND faculty chamber music, Annenberg Auditorium in the Snite, 2 p.m. 
president for external affairs said. Konechusky said he believed that by referring to slavery and other histori­cal events, Clinton intended to place the events of Sept. 11 into an histori­cal context of terrorism. 
"The speech had a progression of: terrorism has a history. we have always gotten through it, we will pull through this and we can't be para­lyzed by fear," Konechusky said.. 
The Times, a traditionally conserv­ative paper. published the Lecture Fund's editorial letter Tuesday. 
George Washington University's newspaper The Hatchet has also sub­mitted an editorial letter to The Times criticizing what it saw to be the reporter's personal bias and mis­interpretation of the former presi­dent's remarks. 

DARTHMOUTH UNIVERSITY 
Authorities continue investigation 
HANOVER, N.H. 

While heightened tension remains on Dartmouth College's campus following last Saturday's attacks on two female students, tight-lipped Hanover Police Department officials said the investigation is progress­ing. The Department has not released any details on the attack in front of Streeter Hall, according to Capt. Chris O'Connor, "because it may prejudice the investi­gation.•· Lt. Francis Moran of the Department's detec­tive division is heading the case, which is being treated as an assault investigation. According to,.O'Connor, Moran's interviews have been fruitful. "I think he feels that right now, after each interview or after informa­tion is learned, it leads him ,down another road." When asked if the Department suspected the assailant to be a Dartmouth student, O'Connor said, "We have no rea­son to believe it is or is not." Student records have not been requested to aid in identifying suspects. O'Connor said it is "pretty hard to say" whether the Department will need to request records from the College. · 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuW eather .com forecast for noon, Wednesday, Nov. 14. Lines separate high temperature zones tor the day 

02001 AecuW eather. Inc. cow WARM STA TION.i'.R Y PT..aur.: 
,.,"\

® (0 . D D E;21. C[] 
','·~w
:•-.,:"'(­

. D ' ·•
High Low Show¦ rs Rain T-stOf'm¦ Flurrlet> Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy \li,1Aaoaated­
Atlanta 71 46 Las Vegas 69 47 Portland 58 47 Baltimore 67 40 Memphis 69 48 Sacramento 68 45 Boston 57 46 Milwaukee 63 53 St. Louis 70 52 Chieago 64 53 New York 61 46 Tampa 77 62 Houston 77 62 Philadelphia 65 47 Washington DC 66 46 
Wednesday, November 14, 2001 

The Observer . NEWS page 3 
Foreign policy centers talk 
By GEREMY CARNES 
News Writer 
Three University professors engaged students in a discussion on U.S. foreign policy surround­ing the war in Afghanistan on Tuesday. 
Chairman of East Asian lan­guages and literature Lionel Jensen, civil engineering and geological sciences professor Dan Lynch and government and international studies professor and Kroc Institute fellow Dan Philpott led the panel titled "Justice in War/After War: Is 
U.S. Foreign Policy Ethical?" 
Lynch approved of President Bush's pledge of the reconstruc­tion of Afghanistan after the war's end. He cautioned that the country's resources must be developed for the people, not for corporations. 
He said that the U.S. should be guided by three criteria for rebuilding Afghanistan: the uni­versal declaration of human rights, the tradition of Catholic social thought and technological rights. He said the U.S. should not leave Afghanistan until the coun­try has been rebuilt to the point that it can sustain itself. 
"All people on the planet have a basic right to an adequate stan­dard of living," he said. 
Philpott discussed how the con­cept of reconciliation, which is found in Christian, Jewish and Islamic teachings should be used to guide the country in the war. 
"Reconciliation affin115 the role of justice," he said. Philpott pointed out that both Christianity and Islam endorse 
To my Notre Dame leaf raki,Lfj ~,y3els: 
Dan Birk Mntt Cremer Mike Lane 
co,wr O'Brien 
J01111 St1rSOII 
Thank you! 
Love, NtillCJ. 0. 



wars for self-defense and punish­ment. However, the war must be motivated by a desire for justice, not revenge, he said. Also, he believes the U.S. must take responsibility for the aftermath of the war. 
Jensen said the "Western" and "Islamic" worlds are demonizing each other. He pointed out that 
U.S. bombings in Afghanistan have probably killed more people than the terrorist attacks in the 
U.S. 

"What is ethical about war?" he asked. "How can we actually justify it?" 
He discussed how the U.S. has often failed to achieve justice, both domestically and abroad. 
He a1so discussed how the U.S. is viewed abroad. 
"The U.S. is greatly revered," he said. "It is also greatly resent­ed." 
He said that although the U.S. may be more engaged with the rest of the world than any other nation, Americans know very lit­tle about other countries. 
In a question-and-answer ses­sion following the presentations, students revealed their own opin­ions about the war, which ranged 
from completely opposed 
to strongly supportive. 
Contact Geremy Carnes at Carnes.4@nd.edu. 
.•·•I____R_E_L_I_G_1_o_N_A_N_o_L_1_T.....,_E_R 

Ciccone highlights Royko's life in print 
By SHEil.A FLYNN 
News Writer 
When adjunct Notre Dame pro­fessor Richard Ciccone decided to write a biography of the late Chicago journalist Mike Royko, he called up Royko's widow and got her permission to sit in her hus­band's third floor attic and read all 8,000 of his columns. 
Ciccone compiled information from the columns, other interviews and personal experience to fin­
ish his book "We have a lot of to tell a story"Royko: A Llfe in that distin­
geniuses running around 
Print,'' which he guished him 
published in 2001 newsrooms. but not many 
from all other and discussed in ofthem have the impact columnists, said a lecture in 
Royko did .•. Occone. 
McKenna Hall "There may Tuesday after-be some able to noon. Richard Ciccono write as well, 
"He was a 
adjunct professor but of the 8,000 
genius," Ciccone columns Mike
American Studies 

=:t:r:;:;mr}!lil:i\; 
WEB 'ADDRESS•:··· •-•www.N~~ER!JZ-B~'L.b.EE 

said of Royko, 
who wrote 
humorous columns for the Chicago 
Daily News, the Chicago Sun-Times 
and the Chicago Tribune. Royko was syndicated in more than 600 newspapers. He began his journal­ism career in the 1950s and wrote until his death in 1997. 
"We have a lot of geniuses run­ning around newsrooms, but not many of them have the impact Royko did,'' Ciccone said. 
Ciccone said Royko embodied the greatest quality a journalist can have; he "knew everything about everything." Ciccone said the columnist captured the essence of Chicago with his bold, humorous· stories about the city's various eth­nic groups and people. 
"When he would make fun of Irish cooking or Mexican politics, that was, to him, the badge that you 
1N_o_.-~ 
were American," Ciccone said. "And being part of an ethnic group meant that you were an American and you could make fun or every­one else." 
But Ciccone said Royko's bril­liance did not exist solely in his humor. 
"He had a great style -marvelous style," Ciccone said. "He was a master of the simple declarative sentence. He looked for the small­est, most precise word that gave the story its tone." 
It was 
Royko's ability 
Royko  wrote,  
every  one  of  
them was a story," he said.  

"He did it without clutter," Ciccone said. praising Royko's rhythm. "He had somewhere a lit­tle clock inside and he wrote with that clock." 
Behind Royko's impressive tech­niques and humor. Ciccone said, lay great depth. The columnist not only knew everything about Chicago, but also about countless other subjects. He loved sports but could talk for hours about classical music. 
A self-taught man without a col­lege education, Royko was a "vora­cious reader" and "a great thinker," said Ciccone. 
Royko, with his brutal honesty and tongue-in-cheek observations, wrote deep insights into American society. Ciccone read the journal­ist's column written after the assas­sination of Martin Luther King, in which Royko blamed the mur­der on the hate within the hearts of all Americana while the rest • of the country pointed lingers at 
each other. 
"That was the kind of percep­tion you didn't get anywhere else and you don't get today," said Occone. 
Most of all, Ciccone praised Royko's view on the role of newspapers. 
He said the columnist "started to write about the evil the politi­cal system does to little people." 
noyko. Ciccone said. frequent­ly warned that "A newspaper does not have to worry about taking care of [Chicago mayor Richard] Daley [or other politi• cians]. Trust me. they'll do well on their own. What a newspa­per has to do is look after the lit­tle guy getting screwed." 
"Royko: A Life in Print" is 
Contact Sheila Flynn at 
Sflynn2@nd.edu. ----,
Molti Bene 
Catalino's Trnttoria Downtown South Bend 
Sn1inute~~ 
fronz CIUTPCIIIT 
Can1pus llllllll[J!EifJ 
Cold WNthM Experts 
CaU 259-1000 for moredetails 



Wednesday, November 14, 2001 

page 4 The Observer . NEWS 
Policy 
continued from page 1 
Brooke Norton and chief of staff Jonathan Jorissen attribute the low turnout to the lack of free time stu­dents have along v\ith poor publici­ty of the event. 
"It's really hard to get students at activitie&. and events, even ones like these where they can give their opinion," said Jorissen. 
"A lot of it was our fault. The date jumped around a lot and this was a busy night, but we didn't want to push it back past the last home game," said Brooke Norton. 
The meeting opened with Brooke Norton and Jorissen describing why the University has decided to enforce the alcohol policy more strictly on game days. including extreme drunkenness, students vomiting, public urination and com­plaints from alumni and other visi­tors about student behavior. 
"The hard part is to know exactly where the line [of enforcement] is drawn every game and it is our 
Interns 
continued from page 1 
business. The panel suggested checking with your professors or consulting the counseling and career development center for books to guide you. 
Career fairs are essential to attend when seeking an internship. 
"Boast, sell yourself," said Melissa Powell. "Show that you are interest­ed in the company and you can work for them." 
Bring your resume and portfolio and be prepared to. ask questions about the company. The panel highlighted many ways to be pre­pared and successful at job fairs, including distinguishing yourself as a Saint Mary's student. 
"Saint Mary's singles you out," said Murphy, "They'll remember you." 
Job fairs are a good starting point to present yourself to different prospective companies, but they may not cater to every major. 
"If you can't find what you're looking for at the career fair, you have to do more searching on your own, using books or the internet," said Powell. 
Research on the web is key, it will help you find different company's as well as explore those company's you're interested in. The more info1111cd you are at a job fair the better candidate you are. 
responsibility to get feedback from students," Brooke Norton said. 
She said the feedback would be given to assistant vice president for Residence Life Bill Kirk and vice president for Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman. 
'They are always looking for stu­dent feedback. We told them we were going to hold a town hall meeting and they said they were interested in receiving the minutes from the meeting," said Brooke Norton. 
Jorissen said he hoped the feed­back would help to improve the way the alcohol policy is enforced. 
"They know the tactics of enforcement aren't crystal clear, but hopefully feedback from stu­dents will help to improve that," he said. 
Brooke Norton said the feedback about the need for pre-game events for students would be given to her successor and the Hall President's Council, which has some continuity from year to year. 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at brodfuehrer.l@nd.edu. 
Career fairs provide a means· to obtain an interview with the com­pany your interested in. Being pre­pared for questions they might ask as well as questions you have to ask them is a key part of having a suc­cessful interview. The panel gave sample interview questions and scenarios. 
"They're not looking for an exact answer," said Kristie Miller. 'They are looking for how clearly you can communicate your thoughts." 
Being prepared does not ensure a good interview, but the panel was adamant not to be discouraged if it doesn't go your way. 
Internships usually consist of basic skill work. Previous class experience in relation to the intern­ship, especially in some computer programs, is a helpful advantage but not always necessary. 
"They don't expect you to know what you are doing," said Anne Conrad, "They train you so you can get the ex~rience of working a job everyday." 
Once at an internship, take advantage of all opportunities the company offers and be accepting and enthusiastic to any challenges the job may present. 
The panel encouraged all stu­dents to seek an internship for the great experience you gain and the benefits of working and expanding your networks. 
Contact Jennie Buehler at Bueh1658@saintmarys.edu 

Look no further• the OIT is HIRING! Resident Comuter Consultants ($pr;n9 to .,) 
. 

,; ·  lR{)~lBU::S!-WffT me JNSTALLING &REPA!RING NETWORK CONNECTIV!TY Of. RESIDEMT CDMPUTERS IN THE RESrDEltCE HALLS  
.MrnWERHJG Gt:.NERAi..  !NT ERNET  SOflWAt:£ QIJESTrot~S  

Apply no\N at http://www~nd.edu/"'ndoit/employ
('through t'IO'TC~bcr 15th) 

r Qticstfon.s? Cail 631-H1,~7 t~ail ahickcrs~nd.cdil 
Feds question male foreigners 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Investigators are knocking on the doors of Middle Eastern visitors in the United States and looking through the files of foreign students as part of a widening terrorism inquiry, sparking complaints about racial profiling. . 
State and federal agents are questioning 5,000 male for­eigners from Middle Eastern and other countries, and inves­tigators have contacted more than 200 colleges and universi­ties seeking information about foreign students from Arab and Muslim nations. 
Authorities say those sought for questioning are not sus­pects but are wanted for volun­tary interviews because inves­tigators believe they might have information that will help police find those who planned the Sept. 11 attacks and others planning new attacks. 
They are being targeted because they fit the criteria of people who might have knowl­edge of foreign-based terrorists 
and not because of their nationality, according to a Justice Department memo. 
None will be forced to submit to interviews; those who choose to speak to investiga­tors can have lawyers present. 
Civil rights gr_oups say inves­tigators are threatening the basic privacy rights of people from particular ethnic groups. 
"We have serious concerns about what appears to be a dragnet approach rather than a targeted investigation," said Lucas Guttentag, head of the American Civil Liberties Union's 'immigration rights project. 
Only those who traveled from nations that have been way stations for terrorists in Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida network were placed on the list, said Justice Department spokes­woman Mindy Tucker, who declined to specify which coun­tries were targeted. 
..We looked at the country they entered from. We're not looking at their nationality," said Tucker. "They are not sus­pects. they are simply people 
who we want to talk to because they may have helpful informa­tion." 
They will be asked whether they have heard anyone advo­cating terrorism or violence, according to a Justice Department memo. Tucker said they would _not be ques­tioned about their religious beliefs and practices. 
Law enforcement sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, said over 20 coun­tries are targeted, including Middle Eastern and European countries. The 19 hijackers and their accomplices are believed to have plotted the attacks in Germany and England and suspected ring­leader Mohammed Atta trav­eled to Spain and the Czech Republic. Some of the hijackers entered the United States from Europe and some obtained visas in Saudi Arabia. 
Late last week, the Justice Department began distributing names of male foreigners to federal and state anti-terror­ism task forces around the country. 
socializing and relaxing. The mission of the club is "to make a significant contribu­tion to the recreational and cultural life of the University." The University Club staff declined to com­ment on the health depart­ment's follow-up inspection. 
Contact Helena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu 


Health 
continued from page 1 
then decided to go to the bar, which Carson said is typical of what inspectors have done in the past. 
"I hope that in the future the University Club will have a hostess present so that our staff members don't have to go looking for someone just to announce their presence," Carson said. "Our aim ulti­mately is to make sure that the food that they will be serving to the public will be safe." 
The University Club is a private social organization for Notre Dame faculty and staff members for dining, 

.. N.. ·s T 1· ,,.1-, u:···· 1, E•
1

. . L... ·• ... 
Lmmmmmmmmm  a--Hi  tino ; 88  St ,:,;,'*;~"' udies em;: ,:, :;m rn mr .iiII mn;illffl'ffi'Wo/)  
presents  

Leadership from a Latino(a) Perspective: Preliminary Findings of the National Latino Leadership Survey Project 
Reverend Andrew Hernandez St. Mary's University, San Antonio TX 
7 PM November 14, 2001 141 Debartolo Hall 
reception to follow 
---------------------------::----------~­

ATI 

Wednesday, November 14, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 

Egypt defies U.S. order: Egypt's for­eign minister said his country is not obliged to follow U.S. directives to freeze assets of sus­pected terrorist groups. In an interview pub­lished on Tuesday, Ahmed Maher said the United States alone is bound by lists it has produced to single out groups or individuals as being linked to terrorism. 
Scottish official admits affair: The sole candidate for Scotland's top political post acknowledged Tuesday that he's had an extramarital affair.Education Minister Jack McConnell, who appears certain to succeed Henry Mcleish as head of the Scottish parlia­ment, said he had been unfaithful to his wife Bridget seven years ago. "It caused significant hurt to a number of people and I regret that very much to this day," McConnell said. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

AA 587 engine deemed 'unsafe': 
Federal safety officials concluded a month ago there was an unsafe condition in the type of engine that powered an airliner that crashed in New York City. Investigators were treating Monday's crash of American Airlines Flight 587 as an accident. The chief reason, said George Black, an investigator with the National Transportation Safety Board, is the plane's cockpit voice recorder. "It is absent of any extraneous noises or acts that we would not associate with a normal aviation environ­ment," Black said 
Jury meets in tobacco case: Jurors began deliberating a class-action lawsuit aimed at forcing four of the nation's largest tobacco companies to pay for a medical moni­toring program for 250,000 healthy West Virginia smokers. The lawsuit is set up as a product liability case with the medical moni­toring as the proposed remedy. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 

Skeleton found in Ft. Wayne park: 
A hiker found a human skeleton in a densely wooded area of a city park and authorities arc working to determine its identity.The hiker discovered a skull underneath a piles of lPavcs after seeing a burned bicycle Monday afternoon about 100 yards from the park's bike trail, police spokesman Steve Haffner said. A forensics expert from Indianapolis will help uncover the partially buried skeleton and work to determine its age range, ethnicity, sex, body weight and other specifics, Allen County coroner Jon Brandenberger said. 
~ Market Watch November 13 
Dow 9,750.95 +196.58 Jones CompositeSame: Volume:193 1,350,953,856 AMEX: 829.49 +4.72 NASDAQ: 1,892.11 +51.98 NYSE: 578.31 +9.19 S&P 500: 1,139.09 +20.76  
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS  
::OMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE  
:ISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +1. 55 +0.32 19.58 NASDAQ-100 INDEX (QQQ) +3.58 +1. 36 39. 36 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -5.71 -0.88 14.52 INTEL CORP (INTC) +5.88 +1.67 30.05 JDS UNIPHASE (JDSU) +9.76 +0.94 10.47  

Military courts will try terrorists 
phone interview. He said there were ate that he have this tool available to 
Associated Press 

precedents in World War II and the him," the lawyer said. 
WASHINGTON Civil War. After the Sept. 11 attacks, the 
President Bush signed an order Gonzales, a former Texas Supreme administration pushed through Tuesday that would allow the gov­Court judge who is the president's Congress an anti-terrorism bill that ernment to try people accused ofter­top lawyer, said a military commis­Bush said was vital but civil liberties 
rorism in front of a special military sion could have several advantages groups said went to far, violating commission instead of in civilian over a civilian court. It is easier to Americans' constitutional rights. It court. protect the sources and methods of expands the FBI's wiretapping and 
The order gives the administration investigators in military proceedings, electronic surveillance authority and another avenue to bring the Sept. 11 for example, and a military trial can imposes stronger penalties for har­terrorists to justice, White House be held overseas. boring or financing terrorists. The counsel Albert Gonzales told The "There may not be a need for this measure also increases the number Associated Press. and the president may make a deter­of crimes considered terrorist acts 
"This is a new tool to use against mination that he does not want to and toughens the punishments for terrorism," Gonzales said in a tele· use this tool. but he felt it appropri-committing them. 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
American special forces slipped into the Afghan capital to offer "advice and counsel" to triumphant opposition forces, and small numbers of U.S. troops are operating against the Taliban in southern Afghanistan, Defense Secretary Donald 
H. Rumsfeld said Tuesday. 
At his first Pentagon news conference since the fall of Kabul, Rumsfeld was careful not to boast about the string of north­ern alliance military suc­cesses in northern Afghanistan against the 

Taliban, that has ruled most of the country for five years. 
Rumsfeld cautioned against concluding that the Taliban's retreat from the north means the hunt for Osama bin Laden and his terrorist network is almost over. He said U.S. officials don't know where bin Laden is hiding. 
"We're still such a good distance from where we've got to get," Rumsfeld said. 
"It's a difficult country. There are lots of caves. There are lots of tunnels, lots of mountains. It is not an easy task. We said that at the outset. We've been hard at it, and progress is being made, but it is not something that is done until it's done, and it is going to take a lot of effort from here on." 
A reporter asked Rumsfeld if he feared Osama bin Laden would launch a new terrorist attack out of desperation. 
"The idea that we could appease them by stopping doing what we're doing, or some implication that ... we 're inciting them to attack us is just utter non­s ense. It's kind of like feeding an alligator. hop­ing it eats you last," he said. 
U.S. bombs fell in Afghanistan for a 38th 
day, and Rumsfeld said that in the aftermath of the Taliban's collapse in the north, the United States has two short-term goals besides hunting down the terrorists. They are open­ing a "land bridge" to Uzbekistan in the north and repairing airports near Mazar-e-Sharif and north of Kabul. so that more humanitarian aid can be brought in. 
Rumsfeld said a "very small number" of U.S. forces are in Kabul, not enough to keep a careful eye on the opposition forces that entered the capital Monday after the Taliban fled. 

page 6 Wednesday, November 14, 2001 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Wednesday, November 14, 2001 page 7 
The Observer . NEWS 
Church bishops appoint first black president 
chose their first black president Tuesday, 
Associated Press 

electing a powerful orator who speaks bluntly about racism in the church and
WASHINGTON 
society at large.
The nation's Roman Catholic bishops Bishop Wilton Gregory, of Belleville, Ill., 
The Keough Institute For Irish Studies presents: tl'; BENEDICT ANDERSON Author ofImagined Communities1 ;and Distinguished O'Donnell ,, Professor in Irish Studies Holy Lands and the End of Conquest: The t-ligh Price of Nations Today MCKENNA HALL 7:00 PM Thursday, November 15, 2001  
'1'.R/JS,j[VOLL!EY'.B'ALL Senior Night vs. Illinois St. Wednesda,y, Nov. 14 @ i :OOp~ FREE Outpost SVortS t-shirts to 1st 100 fansll FREE set of Notre Dame Senior tracti119 caras to 1st 500 fans!! Co-wu:Yo-u.t-to--wppo-r-tow--3 le¼UO"V~ ~we,~~e.• iv1 a,r-c,le;, 'B omJ~ck;, Kr~ty 1(v~--, & M~Gc:rra.:&,ki., . ~~ Congratulations to the Notre DameVolleyboll Team. IL____ Winners of the regular season Big East Title!! _J  
cau259-1000 for more details 


said he would continue to speak about 
racism as a violation of Christ's teaching 
and an evil that Catholics must work to 
end. "It is a sin," he declared. He said he hoped his election as president of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops would send a "message of love" to blacks of all faiths. "I hope it says some­th ing positive," he said. Black Catholics see Gregory's election as recognition they have long sought from church leaders. Estimates of the num­ber of black Catholics range from 2 million to 3.5 million, out of 
63.7 million Catholics nationwide. 
Gregory succeeds Bishop Joseph Fiorenza of Galveston­Houston, Texas, who is finishing his three­year term. The 53~ year-old prelate takes 
"He can have a crowd absolutely waiting on every

.tolDfflltilJTulfi word," said Father Charles Rubey, director of Catholic Charities of Chicago.
$por~wear 
Gregory became a bishop in 1983, serving for 10 years as auxiliary bishop to the late Cardinal Joseph Bernardin in Chicago, whom Gregory admired for remaining approachable despite his high rank in the church. 


lan?est se/ec~t!01 l at 
Sm~wte:~ {ron1 OUTPOST Ca mpus lllllll[J.:EifJ 
Cold WNther Exf)fllU 
Saint Ma,y's College Theatre presents the play­
}A'J 
N\_other 
saidl 
~e\Ter 
should 
,.,_ R '­

c II 
Thursday -Saturday, November 15-17 at 8 pm 
over as the bishops review their position on the war on terrorism; they will vote on a formal statement Thursday. 
He is an expert on liturgy and has writ­ten extensively on Catholic opposition to physician-assisted suicide and the death penalty. Friends say he is able to reach Catholics of all races. 
Monsignor Richard Duncanson recalled a Thanksgiving years ago when the two were in graduate school. A prayer was offered noting how the early Americans came full of hope, prompting Gregory to make one of his trademark straightfor­ward observations. 
"He said, 'Some didn't come. Some were brought over as slaves,"' Duncanson said. "It was a memorable moment. He makes us aware without a sense of resentment." 
Gregory was in sixth grade when he first considered becoming a priest. His parents, Christians without a denomina­tion, had sent him to St. Carthage Catholic School on the South Side of Chicago, where his family lived. He was drawn by the warmth and intelligence of the two parish priests and wanted to follow their example. 
He was ordained in 1973 and later earned a doctorate in sacred liturgy from the Pontifical Liturgical Institute in Rome. He soon was in demand as a public speak­er. 
I 
I
~ 
I
I 
;,'
I
{I
I
J,i 
j 
1 ,-E I{ E " 
1~t:e~, I ~ 
o secrets i 
oau\')\1t\\\e1rulh l 
I 


Sunday, 0 iI
s.1.,M.,y'oC<tll•1• 

November 18 at 2:30 pm r8../!M-'l'R.. i Little Theatre ~,::~~~.. IH I For ticket information i contact the Saint Mary's Box Office at 284-4626 I 
j
•u . n ; B •~= 1 • t

i J 
O
THE 

BSERVER 

page 8 Wednesday, November 14, 200 I 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Souch Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  . OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Pat Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadrer SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROll.ER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Kacie McKenna 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX................................................ ; ............ 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4 542 MANAGING EDIT0RIAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEW'S..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu 
SPORTS........................................................631-4543 
'observer .sports. I@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. I@nd.edu 
SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer .smc.1@nd.edu 

PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, spores, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movics/mwic for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online featw-es for spe­
and rares of print ads 
cial campus coverage 

archives rn search for  about The Observer  
articles published after  to meet the editors and  
Augus1 1999  s1aff  
POLICIES  

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the UniversiryofN01re Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither insrirurion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majoriry of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present 1he views ofthe authors and not necessarily rhose of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters 10 the Editor must be signed and must include concac1 information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefMike Connolly. 
Appreciate masters of custodial arts 
Upon returning from fall break, I noticed a jarring irregularity in my room. 
No, the University had not removed my microwave. hot plate, toaster oven and 8.9 cubic foot refrigerator. My Eric Long rug had been vacu­umed to a new state of sheen; my Fitter, sink fairly sparkled 
Happier

and my reeking trash can had been emptied and endowed with a new plastic bag. I smiled to myself and loosed a silent sus­piration of thanksgiving for Zahm Hall's housekeeping staff. 
Have any of you patrons of print jour­nalism. upon venturing out of the news­paper realm. come across a movie called UHF? The film, starring "Weird Al" Yankovic, contains a sub-plot about a hapless janitor named Stanley Spudalski (admirably portrayed by Michael Richards). 
Stanley's only true joy is his mop. By a whimsical turn of fate, Stanley becomes the host of a children's variety show and proceeds to demonstrate his love and joie de vivre in front of a live studio audience. Stanley, looked down upon in the beginning of the film, is a hero by the movie's end. He uses that same mop as a thin wooden cudgel against the bad guys. 
I saw this masterpiece of modern cin­ema at the tender age of 9, and since then I've held janitors, custodians, housekeepers and all other cleaning personnel in the highest esteem. 
Fast forward to high school. A favorite pastime of the lunch hour was the cata­loguing and nicknaming of the school's custodial workforce. My mean-spirited compatriots devoted the utmost zeal to selecting the perfect alias for our jani­tors. There was "Amish Tom," so named for his ear-to-ear gray be~rd. 
"Johnny B. Bad" was so christened for no apparent reason: perhaps my witty friends decided to title him thus because of his uncanny resemblance to Chuck Berry. Come to think of it, Johnny looked nothing like Chuck . Berry. Attribute this error in judgment to the hallucinogenic effects of the cafe­teria food, if you must attribute it to anything. 
Although I often laughed along in my friends' merry games, inside my soul I shed a tear for these poor .civil servants engaged in thankless tasks all the live­long day. 
Throughout my formative years, I had balanced both negative and positive depictions of custodians on my shoul­ders. Billy Madison's frail and scraggly janitor "Sideburns" is manipulated by the wealthy elite and mockingly offered milk by Billy himself. Sideburns is a broken man. Stanley Spudalski, on the other hand, retains his courage and virtue as he masters oppressive forces. 
What was my conclusion? I could have put on, as my lunchtime friends did, a wicked, cavalier air of superiority and of jocularity at the janitor's expense. Several times I found myself on the edge of the abyss. 
Traverse a stretch of time past, and you arrive at my college years. First of all, on a tangential topic, contrary to outside belief, we do not have maids who make our beds, pick out our clothes, brush our teeth and walk us to class. This is college; we've moved past that for the most part, though some (myself included) only in recent years. 
Regardless, we do have a full-fledged bona fide cleaning staff in the residence hall. These fantastic people have con­vinced me that there is a Stanley Spudalski crouching inside of every jan­itor, waiting to leap out and be a herQ. Only our vaunted housekeepers display heroism on a daily basis. 
They arrive at the first blush of dawn, empty the dumpsters and trashcans, clean the bathrooms, vacuum the hall­ways, sweep the stairs, empty the ash­trays and perform a bevy of other tasks that will remain unsung on this day because of my professed ignorance. They smile, heartily chuckle and make wisecracks as I shuffle past with yet another Grab-n-Go bag. The women politely avert their eyes when one trots past be-toweled from the showers. The men never fail to greet me with a robust "What's happening?" when I enter the building. 
In short, these custodial crusaders labor long hours to maintain the pre­cious-residence hall infrastructure. Without them, things around here would verge on the apocalyptic. 
But on top of their aforementioned duties as the keepers of sanitary condi­tions, they transcend their roles as cus­todians through extraordinarily friendly behavior to become permanent fixtures in the dorm. Oftentimes, a smiling member of the janitorial staff is the first fellow human to greet me as I emerge from my room in the morning. Small gestures such as these, seemingly insignificant in the grander scheme of things, make this ~niversity special. 
So thank your custodian today. Convince your sectionmates to con­tribute to a Christmas card or gift. Let the cleaning staff know that they are appreciated in any form you know how. Hug your custodian today. Perhaps not -they wield those mops with unparal­leled dexterity, and I wouldn't want to threaten them with unprovoked physi­cal advances. Johnny B. Bad indeed. 
Eric long is a senior PLS major. He can be reached at long.31@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
SOA protest is not anti-military 
Sean Quigley presents a flawed and self contradictory view about the School of the Americas Protest. Here is why. 
First he states he is "100 percent for first amendment right~" and their use. Then he states that there are currently men and women in uniform "who would die for our freedom if given the chance to." Somehow, though. he has determined that the exercise of one of those freedoms our men and women are protecting (the one he supports 100 percent) is the same as exhibiting disrespect for them. 
Instead, I would like to posit the idea that neglecting the use of those freedoms our men and women are protecting would be an even greater offense. If we are unwilling to pur­sue justice and freedom at home -by using the freedoms they are protecting -we reduce the importance of what Quigley claims they are fighting for. 
Further, the School of the Americas protest is not a protest of the United States military. Rather, it is a protest against 
U.S. foreign policy use of American facilities to train the mili­tary leaders of other countries. Once these non-U.S. person­nel return home, the United States has little control over how they use their U.S. training. For decades, many of these lead­ers have been guilty of directing· human rights atrocities after learning military tactics at the school. 
This is what the protesters at the School of the Americas are protesting this coming weekend. · 
If Quigley finds the logic behind opposing the School of the America's flawed, I encourage him to argue against the protest on those grounds. 
I am not convinced by an argument that says we should honor our military personnel by refusing to exercise precisely those rights that they are fighting to secure for us. 
Shamus Rohn 
JUO!Of 
Stanford Hall Nov. I3, 200 I 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 

Maribel Morey Spencer Beggs Van Giles Graphics Joe Ackerman Jimmy Atkinson 
Sports Production 

Katie Hughes Jeff Baltruzak 
Viewpoint Lab Tech 
Sheila Flynn Dorothy Carder 

POLL QUESTION 
Is the economy causing you to rethink your post-graduation plans? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"When I was a boy offourteen, my father was so ignorant I could hardly stand to have the old man around. But when I got to be twenty-one, I was astonished at how much he had learned in 
,, 

seven years. 
Mark Twain writer 
-----·-----­
O
THE 

BSERVER 



Wednesday, November 14, 2001 page 9 
Imagine another America 
Imagine living in the rural part of the southwest with no running water <;>r elec­tricity. Imagine living in a one room, octagon-shaped home with an outhouse located fifty yards away. · Imagine living in a two-bedroom, federally-funded house with a mother who works at McDonald's. Imagine having alcoholic parents who spend countless 
Laura M. Mike 

nights at local, run-down taverns and being awaken in the middle of the night, hungry and crying, because they are engaging in a physical fight. 
What's Your

Imagine yourself as an 11-year old, preparing supper for 
Shade? 

your 6-year-old brother and 4-year-old sister while your mom races to the hospital with an ailing grandmother. 
ImaginP thP disappnintmPnt you foe! when you see your mother walk out of the post office \Vith no government check or food stamps in hand. 
Imagine having a Vietnam vete·ran as an uncle who is unemployed and con­stantly drunk and how much you love him no matter what he says to you because you just know why he walks with a limp. 
Imagine hitch-hiking to the nearest trading post, which could be 20-100 miles away, to pawn a cherished, silver and turquoise concho belt that's been in the family for four generations in order to feed your children. . 
Imagine being told by a high school counselor that you're not capable of going to college and the only job you could ever have is scraping roadkill off of the · roads. Imagine going to school and being laughed at when you speak the only lan­guage you know. Imagine reading about the Battle of Wounded Knee, The Trail of Tears and The Long Walk and feeling the pain rip through your heart. Imagine indulging you, grandmother's famous frybread after months of South Dining Hall food. Imagine running into another Indian -Sioux, Cherokee, Pueblo, Apache, Cree. 
Navajo -who has the same skin and hair color as you. 
Imagine hearing all the gossip and news about someone famous -Leonard Peltier, Notah Begay, Billy Mills, Ira Hayes, Russell Means -and how each per­son stood for something great or not-so-great. 
Imagine yourself waking up early in the morning before the sun rises to pray with corn pollen, to meet the rising sun, to chop wood and build fire for your family. 
Imagine sharing scary stories with your 12 cousins about the skinwalkers who lurk through the night or how you saw "something" move by the old woodpile. 
Imagine feeling the rush as you witness thousands ofjingle dress. fancy, south­ern, northern. gourd and tiny tot ·dancers gather in the University of New Mexico arena for the inter-tribal dance at the Gathering of Nations powwow. 
Imagine the pride you feel when a niece has her first laugh. 
Imagine having 40 sisters and brqthers. 
Imagine the pride you feel when you finally sell that piece of pottery or basket 
that you've worked hard on for hours. Imagine giving your nephew a Navajo Code Talker G.I. Joe action figure for Christmas and how he exclaims that it looks just like your grandfather. 
Imagine slipping into your homemade, traditional outfit with all your finest to show the world the tyranny and hardships your ancestors faced on land that was once theirs, where languages were spoken and songs created by men, women and children who could say from the bottom of their hearts with tremendous pride, love, faith, hope, charity, pain, anger, frustration, sadness, relief ... that they are Native American. 
Imagine that. 

Laura M. Mike is a member ofthe Navajo Nation and Native American Student Association ofNotre Dame. The Multicultural Students Programs and Services column appears every other Wednesday. Contact MSPS at sacharya@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
As human beings who support the rights of oth­ers. we have a responsibility to be moral con­sumers. The way in which we spend our money indicates our values. As the recent campaign against sweatshops has shown, consumers have real power to affect the policies of large corpora­tions. 
In this spirit, the Community Alliance to Serve Hispanics (CASH), the Progressive Student Alliance {PSA) and the Notre Dame Student/Farmworker Alliance is calling on the Notre Dame family to help give voice to the voice­less. Migrant farmworkers provide us with a bounty of fruits and vegetables while working under deplorable conditions. Denied the right to a living wage, to any benefits or to bargain collec­tively, these workers toil in a usweatshop in the fields" right here in our own country. We are called to solidarity with these workers, ..to pro­claim and promote the dignity of all work, but especially of agricultural work." (Pope John Paul 11, Laborem Exercens, "On Human Work", #21, 1981} 
Since 1978, migrant workers picking tomatoes for Six L's packing company have been paid the same per-bucket rate: 40 cents. The average farmworker makes $7,500 per year. Meanwhile, 
Six L's and their buyers have become rich off their labor for sub-poverty wages. One of Six L's largest 
buyers, Taco Bell, made $5 billion in 1999. In 
order to put pressure on Six L's, the Coalition of 
Immokalee Workers, a farmworker activist group, is organizing a boycott of Taco Bell. Taco Bell deliberately targets college-aged students with its advertising, therefore our voice as students can 
become a powerful one for the rights of these workers. If Taco Bell was to pay only one cent more for each pound of tomatoes, they could more then double their pay of their pickers. 
Demand dignity and a living wage for the work­ers upon whose backs they have become success­ful. Please come and learn more about the strug­gle of these workers. Please go to the Coalition's Web site at www .ciw-online.org and join us in our campaign to create justice in the fields of America. 
Community Alliance to Serve Hispanics Progressive Student Alliance Notre Dame Student-Farmworker Alliance Nov. 12, 2001 
Religion should not mold sexual beliefs 
I cannot say that I was surprised to read Mary Blazewicz's letter on sex in The Observer on Monday. After all, I am at a Catholic institution. But what disturbed me is her rationale behind the argument made against premarital sex. Her argu­ment is based solely on Christian (Catholic, in particular) beliefs. While using Christianity to mold one's own beliefs is fine, using it to attempt to argue whether or not premarital sex is wrong is not fine. 
Belief in an organized religion can be and has been used to justify almost anything. During the Spanish Inquisition, the Catholic Church used Catholicism in order to inflict tremen­dous amounts of pain and murder upon innocent people. Even worse, the Church nominated Pius XII for sainthood despite the Concordat he signed with Hitler, which allowed for compli­ance in the extermination of millions of innocent people. This said, should we really take what the Church says at face · value? To do so would turn people into nothing more than puppets of the Pope. 
Also, belief in a religion remains exactly that -a belief. It is not a fact; it is an idea or a concept of values that people choose to organize around. Plus, who is to say which religion is right and which ones are wrong? Some Mormon groups still practice polygamy. What makes that religion inferior to Catholicism? Do their multiple marriages wipe out the "gen­uine and complete expression of love" that occurs in sex when married? After all, they are married and are most likely com­mitted to each other. . 
The argument that one should marry someone if they love him or her in order to have sex is equally preposterous. I have seen relationships between unmarried people that have more love, more devotion and a better concept of "forever" than many marriages. Marriage is a very powerful commitment to a person but not something that needs to be a prerequisite in order to have sex in a loving and compassionate manner. 
Lastly, if God does exist, who is to say how "God intended" people to have sex? I don't remember reading about any "How to Have Sex as I Intended" book written by God. If it's already out at the bookstores, please let me know. I bet it would be interesting reading. 
David Fulton sentor off-campus Nov. I 2, 200 I 


O
THE 
BSERVER 




its 
page 10 Wednesday, November 14, 2001 


'­
Scene previews F1T's Advanced 


ByC. SPENCER BEGGS 
Scene Editor 

The moments that make life worth living are sometimes the ones that make the least sense. This paradox of what one thinks one wants and what one feels one wants is the subject of the Department of Film, Television and Theatre's Advanced Directing Final Project "Burn This." 
"Burn This" follows the lifo of a young dancer and choreographer, Anna (played by junior Tara Magnani). after she returns from Urn funeral of her roommate and closest friend, Hobbie. 
Together with her . remaining roommate Larry (played by fresh­man Steve lloeplinger) and her science fiction writing boyfriend Burton (played by junior Chas Grundy), she is confronted by Hobbie's fiery-tempered, drug abusing older brother Pale (played by sophomore Sean Nelson) who has come to collect Robbie's things. 
Anna's world becomes sud­denly complicated as she and Pale find a powerful attraction to each other. The show, which is set in Anna and Larry's lower Manhattan converted loft apartment, follows the course of Anna and Palc's passion that threatens to tear the fab­ric of all four characters' lives apart. 
Much of the show's strength comes The 
from its acting talent. Magnani docs a 
C a S t superb job of walking the thin line 
dynamic
between repressed emotional tension 
often saves the 
and melodrama in her portrayal of' show from crossing
the conflicted Anna. Her reserve 
into overdone soap opera 
serves as a foundation on which the acting. Grundy contributes a strongother actors can build, especially 
straight man to contrast and serve as 
Nelson. 

a foil for Nelson's charging pcrl'or-Nelson, who often mance. llocplingcr.
plays slapstick and 
who cuts his actingcomedic roles, rises teeth on this show, 

to the challenge of "There's a lot ofgriefin 
is especially good at portraying a charac­the show ... and conflict relieving tension ter originally played 
as well. But ifyou listen with a bit of dark 
by John Malcovich. 
humor. 

Nelson's physical. there's also a lot of 
To bring tlw audi­

presence is, as 
passion for life. " ence closer to "Burn 
always. one of the 
Th is " sP t d"sig 111' r 

strongest asp<~cts of 
Chris Sinnott us <1 s

Kathleen Lane
his acting. 
tlw spacP of tlw Lab 

NcvPrthcless, audi-director 
ThPatre crt~ativ<•ly. 

ences will gnt to see 
Kncnvn for his cl1\vnr 

a new side of' this tal­set dHsigns in shows 
ent in "Burn This." 
like last month's "How tlw Other Ila!!' 
The normally jovial and awkward 
Loves," Sinnott places tlrn audience in 
nature of NPlson's characters is 
the center of the Lab Tlwatn•. IIP 
replaced by an ominous and threaten­
designed the apartment around tlw ing presence in "Burn This." Ile is 
au cl ic n c n . Ev c n tlw w in d ows a n d delightful and terrifying to watch at 
doors of' the Lab Tlwatre am usnd as 
the same time. The show highlights 
part of tlw s,~t. The nffoct in vPry
his abilities to play a range of emo­
strong, thn tlwater looks beli<>vabh• as 
tions in a mentally tortured charac­
a conv<ffted loft apartment.tcr. Playing the show in 360 degrees has 


been a chal­lenge for 
the actors. "It's incredibly 

intimate; the audience is right in front of you. We're working around the audience instead of ... in 
front of them," Grundy said. 
Intimacy is exactly what director Kathu~Pn Lane vvants the show to have. LanP, a sPnior and long tinw FTT VPlPr­a 11 • I'P ,d s t ha t it is im p o rt a n t fo r tlw audiPIH"P to ronnPrt with ttw charactPrs. 
"I think this is dPfi­antly sonwthing pPo­plP will n•latt• to... in realitv then• would 
"You love who you loue, not who you 're supposed to love." 
Steven Hoeplinger actor 
lw V<';Y good rPason l'or tlw ·..rndiPIH'P to dislik<' S<'VPral of tlw characters... but tlw ltlw ston· is] so tntt• that vuu wa I k away sa;-in g · I can 't s a:v I wouldn't do that,"' La1w said. 
l.a1w gav<' tlw actors a lot of t'rt•P­dom with their rol«~s. allowing them to <~ xpP rim•~ 11 t w ith t lw ir o wn m o v e ­ments and line delivery. Shi• only changPs what the actors do wlwn sh;~ 

O
THE 

BSERVER 


us 
Wednesday, November 14, 2001 
page 11 

Directing Final Project "Burn This" 
feels they are doing something incor­rectly. But that doesn't stop her from producing a strong show. 
"At the same times she's very authoritative. She knows what she wants and knows how to get it out of the actors ... It's been a very pow­erful acting experience," Grundy 
said. 
Lane thinks "Burn This" is a powerful show because it renects the lives of both the audience and her cast members. During the rehea-rsal process she would have her cast members share stories of love, loss and pas­sion to b<>tter connect 
to thPir characters. Lane thinks that this technique allows actors to trust each othnr more on stagn. 
"Orw of' the easiest ways to acts some­thing out is to take 
som<~thing from your O\l\'11 Ii fl' and relate it to that charactf'r and 
what they're going through," Lane said. 
Lane ff'cls that even though "Burn This" is extremely dramatic, its 
nrnssagc is one of hope. 
"There's a lot of grief in the show ... and conflict as well. But if you listen there's 

also a lot of passion for life," Lane said. "Burn This" is one of \Vilson's 
most critically acclaim,~d plays. The Pulitzer Prize-winning author received almost unanimous praise at the show's release in 1987. One of the most important modern American playwrights of the 20th century, Wilson's play tackles issues including dealing with loss, sexuality and love. And he is a master at blurring the lines between those issues. 
"You love who you love. not who 
you 're supposed to love ... There's a line at the end of the show ... 'This isn't opera, this is life, why does love always have to be so tragic?·' I believe that would be the 1in e to capt u re tlw (~SS<'nce of tlrn play." llrniplinger said. 
"Burh This" will be presented in the Lab Theatre in ·washington Hall on 

Friday and Saturday night at 7:30 pm. Admission is free. Both floor and house seats will be available. Those wishing to have house seats should arrive early. 
Contact C. Spencer Beggs at beggs.3@nd.edu. 
C. SPENCER BEGGS/ The Observer Director Kathleen Lane (middle) relaxes and watches the show with costume designer Laura Colangelo (left), and lighting designer Stephanie Buffa (right) . 
.. 
Wednesday, November 14, 2001 

The Observer . SPORTS 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 


Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Randy Johnson didn't have to share this award with Curt Schilling. 
The Big Unit, co-MVP of the World Series with his Arizona Diamondbacks teammate, won his third straight National League Cy Young Award on Tuesday, receiving 30 of 32 first-place votes from a panel of the Baseball Writers' Association of America. 
"I know Curt's happy for me," Johnson said. "I talked to him earlier today. He was calling me today to thank me for getting him to this next level where's he at. I thought that was the most flattering comment I've received to this point in my career." 

Johnson was 21-6 and led the major leagues with a 2.49 ERA and 372 strikeouts, the third most in a season behind Nolan Ryan's 383 in 1973 and Sandy Koufax's 382 in 1965. Schilling was 22-6 with a 2.98 ERA and 293 strikeouts. 
Johnson got two second-place votes and 156 points. Schilling followed with two firsts, 29 seconds and one third for 98 points. 
"This should be about Randy winning it, not me losing it," Schilling told ESPN Radio. "I feel from opening day to the finish, I was the most consistent pitcher in baseball. ... Was that good enough to win the Cy Young? Not this year." 
It was the fourth Cy Young Award for Johnson, who won the AL honor while pitching for Seattle in 1995. The only other pitchers with four or more Cy Youngs are Roger Clemens, a favorite to win his sixth on Thursday when the AL voting is announced, and Steve Carlton and Greg Maddux, who won four each. 
"This has been a dream season,"Johnson said, "not because of the Cy Young Award but because another dream was fulfilled." 
Arizona beat the New York Yankees in Game 7 of the World Series on Nov. 4, and Johnson has had little time to refle·ct. 
"It's all been pretty surreal," he said. "Me and my wife had a vacation planned. We put it off a few days so we could take part in the ticker-tape parade." 
The only voters who chose Schilling over Johnson were Toni Ginnetti of the Chicago Sun-Times and Joe Christensen of The Press-Enterprise in Riverside, Calif. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. A1 classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds . 
CLASSIFIEDS 
. 

SPRING BREAK PARTY! Indulge FOR SALE: 2 bdrm limestone HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM· Spring Break with ST$, Americas I bent my wookie in FREE Travel, Drinks, Food and ranch, close to campus. 2-car PUS. turn. 272-6306 #1 Student Tour Operator. Promote Parties with the Best DJs and attached garage, hardwood floors, trips on campus, earn cash and tree all time best rappers 
NOTICES 

celebrities in Cancun, Jamaica, finished basement, CIA. Call 219-trips. Info/Reservations. 1-800·648­Mazatlan, and the Bahamas. Go to 233·9146. 4849 www.ststravel.com 1. Snoop
TICKETS

SPRING BREAK Cancun, Jamaica, StudentCity.com, call 1-800-293· 
S. Padre, & all Florida destinations. 1443 or email FOR SALE 1994 Oldsmobile BEST Hotels, FREE parties, LOW-sales@studentcity.com to find out Cutlass Ciera, 86,000mi, fine cond., ND tickets for sale. Lowest prices. EST prices www.breakerstravelcom more. loaded, $3000 or best offer. Call 1-232-0964. (800) 985-6789. 5233. 
BABYSITTER for 3 children: One 6· WANTED· ND TICKETS 289-9280. ADOPTION IS LOVE Imagine your yr-old, 2-yr-old twins. Flexible For Rent precious baby safe and happy in a hours: 12-15 per week. Five min-HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM-BUYING NAVY TIX SELLING PUR• loving family, adored by 2 ND Grad utes from ND Campus. 289-5763. PUS mmmrentals.com email:mmm-DUE, STANFORD TIX. A.M. 232· parents (a full-time mom and a rentals@aol.com 2378 P.M. 288-2726 ...ACT NOW! GUARANTEE THE BEST SPRING BREAK PRICES! SOUTH PADRE, CANCUN, JAMAICA, BAHAMAS, ACAPUL­CO, FLORIDA & MARDI GRAS. REPS NEEDED. TRAVEL FREE. EARN $$$. GROUP DISCOUNT FOR 6+. 800·838·8203/ WW\V.LEISURETOURS.COM 
2. Tupac 3 Dr. Dre 
4. 
Busta Rhymes 

5. 
Method Man 


Honorable mention: Nas, Redman 
notice master p did not make the list, or maSe for that matter 

lawyer dad) and loving playmates in Female seeking hockey gear • a beautiful home. We promise to give pads, helmet,right-handed stick. your child the life you dream of for Call 634-2446. them. Medical, legal, counseling, court approved living expenses pd. Confidential. Please call our attorney 
FOR SALE 
at (708) 922-4795. 

YAMAHA PICCOLO.professional WANTED model. Grenada wood, excellent 
condition. WANTED: SPRING BREAKERS! $750/080. 514-4515 Sun Coast Vacations wants to send you on Spring Break to Cancun, the TRAVEL MEDICAL INSURANCE Bahamas, Jamaica, or Mazatlan ON-LINE PURCHASE FOR FREEi To find out how, call 1­888·TT7-4642 or email: sales@sun-www.EZtripinsurance.com coastvacations.com 800-893-0692 
• 
B & B 3 Miles ND Best Area 287-4545 
Student Wanted! Alum owned 2 story, 5 bdr, 2 bth w/ new carpet. appl., sec, roof & furnace, 3 lot yd, 1 blk N. of Club 23 321-217-8451 
Houses available for 3 to 6 stu­dents. Good area...ADT, washer-dryer-air. Dave 340-0106 
HOUSES FOR RENT 1) 9-br $2400/month 2) 5-br $1500/month 
3) 4-br $1000/month Call Bill at 532-1896. 

BUY·SELL ND FOOTBALL TICK­ETS 277-6619 OR 273-3911 
FOR SALE NAVY TICKETS, AT COST, 2&4 CALL FOR ALL LOCA· TIONS AND PRICES 654-0168. 
PERSONAL 

SPRING BREAK Largest selection of Spring Break Destinations, including Cruises! Rep Positions, Free Drinks and Free trips avail­able. www.EpicuRRean com 1-800­231-4-FUN 
alee baldwin on politically incorrect HIT AND RUN. ND SWEAT BLAN-he's hit rock bottom KET TAKEN FROM GOLF CART. CASE OF MISTAKEN INTEGRITY. out by 1 am 
INDIA STUDENTS! ON-LINE PUA·  pipe dream  
CHASE  
www.indiatravelinsurance.com 800­ the phantom maid  
893-0692  lets bring it back  

Looking for a cheap ride back to  do you feel loved?  
California/ Arizona?  
haters said Dre fell off  
I'm driving my car home to L.A. and  
need someone to drive with me. We  i disagree  
can work out when to leave.  
Call Jeff  paris  
4-4996 or jbaltru1@nd.edu  sun through the window  

Thursday, November 14, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
match." The Redbirds boast three
Volleyball 
players with over 200 kills ­continued from page 20 Jenny Kabbes'-Erin Jones 
and Megan O'Connell. opponent than the pre-game Kabbes has the best hitting ceremonies, during which all average of the three at .256. three players· parents will be O'Connell has missed the present. last three matches for the 
''Illinois State is a really Redbirds with a concussion, good team," Kreher said. but has returned to practice "We've had a pretty good. and is expected to play past record with them so I tonight. Illinois State lost two think it's pretty exciting that of three matches without this is our last match at her. home and it's a good match." "She was out and they 
The Irish and Redbirds switched their setter to an have shared outside hitter the court and had their 
every year "/ think that we've backup setter 
since 1996 in," Brown
played some good

and 13 said. "So 
times over­matches where we've they've had to all. with played a good game work through 
Notre Dame some adversi­
and then kind oflet up. 

holding a 7-ty." 
6 advantage We want to play solid With the Big 
in competi­from the first serve to E a s t tion. The Championships
the last serve." 

Missouri looming on the Valley horizon this Conference Debbie Brown weekend, team comes Brown expects
volleyball coach 

in with a more from her 14-11 over-team than just all record, victory tonight. but the Irish don't expect She's looking for intensity. anything easy. "I think that we've played 
"It seems.like it doesn't some real good matches matter if we're having a where we've played a good great year and they aren't or game and then kind of let vice-versa, it doesn't seem to up," Brown said. "We want matter," Brown said. "We to play solid the first serve always still have a great until the last serve. I think 
that's the best preparation 
Hoops
we can give ourselves com­ing into the tournament." 
continued from page 20 


The College of Arts and Letters invites you to the presentation of tl-1e 
REV~ CHARLES E~ SHEEDY, C~S~C~ AWARD FOR EX1CELLENCE IN TEACHING 
Honoring PROFESSOR STEPHEN M. FALLON 
Program of Liberal Studies REV. WILSON (BILL) D. MISCAMBLE, C.S.C. 
Department ofHistory 

Friday, November 16, 2001 4:00 p.n1. McKenna Hall Auditoriun1 
Wicks, who missed a double­double by one point last week, came off the bench to add 10 rebounds and six points. 
Joining Batteast and Wicks with a solid first-year perfor­mance, starting center Teresa Borton totaled 12 points and six rebounds. 
"Teresa did a great job play­ing post," McGraw said. "She had some great shots. I think we're a team that's just going to wear people down." 
Freshman Katy Flecky fin­ished the game with 13 points and four rebounds, completing the Irish effort in the post position. 
..All of the post players we used tonight had different strengths," McGraw said. "Some could step away from the basket; some were good on the block." 
Notre Dame took an early 17-0 lead before Christian Brothers scored its first bas­ket. The Irish never had a lead of less than 16 points and had a 29-point lead by halftime. 
"I think we got out of it early," Schaefer said. "We got kind of stuck." 
Following the half, junior guard Alicia Ratay scored 11 points in six minutes. finishing the evening with 20 points. 12 
of which came from 3-point shots. 
Except for Sarah Condra, who grabbed 12 points for the Buccaneers. no one scored more than seven points for Christian Brothers. 
Every player who dressed for Tuesday's game saw play­ing time. Junior walk-on Karen Swanson entered the game midway through the second half and was joined shortly by freshman Jill Krause. Swanson scored four points. 
Tuesday's .exhibition game was the last game the Irish will play before their home opener against Valparaiso on Sunday. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 

Contact Noah Amstadter at amstadter. l@nd.edu. 
Fresco 
Catalino's Trnttoria Dm, nto\\ n South Bend 
ed. 

"I think we had a lot of bal­ance today," McGraw said. "I think that's something this team has a lot of -versatility and we were able to use the bench more effectively I thought tonight than in the last game." 
The bench provided a lot of support for the Irish starting lineup. Freshman Kelsey 
Davie 
continued from page 20 
"I think the schedule does balance out a little bit," Davie said about a 2002 schedule that includes Florida State, Michigan and Maryland in addition to Michigan State, Purdue, Boston College, USC and Stanford. 
Davie also pointed towards the continued development of Carlyle Holiday as a positive for next year. 
"Certainly there's a bunch of people who look at the nega­tives," Davie said. "I don't become cynical towards those people at all ... I look at the day-to-day things and have the apprecia­tion for the players and coaches. the way they're doing things. I think in the end that wins out." 
Notes 

. 
Tailback Tony Fisher and fullback Jason Murray will both miss the Navy game with injuries. Julius Jones will shoulder most of the load at tailback but he is also slowed by an injured Achilles tendon. Freshman Ryan Grant and senior Terrance Howard will split time behind Jones. With Murray out, senior Mike McNair moves up to back-up fullback. 

. 
Flanker David Givens will also miss Saturday's game with a hamstring injury. Davie will look to freshman Carlos Campbell to take some snaps at receiver with Givens sidelined. 

. 
The Irish secondary will also be depleted this week as both Glenn Earl and Donald Dykes will not play. Ron Israel is still listed as questionable with a hamstring injury. 


Contact Mike Connolly at connolly.28@nd.edu. 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, November I4, 200 I 
NBA 

Eisley scores 7 key points in first game 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Howard Eisley saw his first playing time of the season and made the most of it, scor­ing seven points in the fourth quarter to lead the New York Knicks over the Portland Trail Blazers 89-82 Tuesday night. 
Eisley, acquired in an off­season trade for Glen Rice, sat on the bench throughout the Knicks' first seven games. He finally took his warmups off for the first time with 3: 34 left in the third and played the rest of the game. 
Allan Houston scored 23 points, including three clutch jumpers in the fourth. and Clarence Weatherspoon moved into the starting lineup and contributed 12 points and 13 rebounds. 
Dale Davis and Derek Anderson scored 17 points apiece for the Trail Blazers, whose offense could not func­tion down the stretch against an intense Knicks defense. Portland shot just 4-for-24 in the fourth. 

Portland was 1-for-23 on 3­I ' pointers. New York was 2-for• 
I l 14. 
\ I Eisley and Houston scored 
\ 
six points apiece as New York turned a 72-69 deficit into an 81-7 7 l e ad •with 2 : 1 0 l e ft . Eisley hitting two driving layups and a jumper and Houston knocking down three straight corner jumpers. 
The Trail Blazers repeated• ly had trouble getting a decent shot off, with Kurt Thomas being especially rrt'ective dr,nying Rasheed Wallace the ball. 
Wallace finally took a shot with 50 seconds left. missing a 3-pointer, and Eisley fol­lowed by making one of two free throws for an 84-78 lead. The Blazers got no closer than five the rest of the way. 
Latrell Sprewell had 10 points, seven assists and five rebounds, Shandon Anderson scored 13, and Kurt Thomas had 11 points and 13 rebounds. The Knicks scored only 11 points in the third quarter but made up for it by 


holding Portland to 16 in the fourth. 
Wallace was in foul trouble in the first half and scored only two points, then picked up his fourth foul less than a minute into the third quarter. Coach Maurice Cheeks elected to leave him in, and Wallace scored on a tip-in to give Portland its first lead, 56-55 with 6:12 left. 
The Knicks missed 13 of their first 14 shots in the third quarter, allowing Portland to go ahead by as many as five, then retook the lead early in the fourth as Anderson scored five straight points. 
Nets 91, Pacers 82 
Jason Kidd scored 20 points and had 10 assists, and Keith Van Horn added 15 points and 13 rebounds as the New Jersey Nets beat the Indiana Pacers. 
The Pacers had won four straight, rallying from dou­ble-digit deficits in the last three. Indians closed within four points midway through the fourth quarter after trail­ing by 16 in the first half. 
But the Nets (6-1). off to their best start in the team's NBA history, went on a 12-2 run to stretch their lead to 86-72. 
The Pacers were awful from the floor, making only seven of 23 attempts in the fourth quarter. They shot 35 percent overall. • 
Jalen Rose scored 21, Al Harrington had 16 points and 

Call 259-sooo for more details 
Find out how you can help. Call 1.800.899.0089 or visit www.volunteersofamerica.org. 

There are no limits to t·aring rn 
14 rebounds, and Jeff Foster had 13 rebounds for the Pacers. 
Kenyon Martin scored 13 points for the Nets. 
Kidd scored eight points in the first quarter, and the Nets shot 54 percent from the floor to build a 32-16 lead. They led 45-35 at halftime. 
Reggie Miller made two 3­pointers in the third quarter, the second cutting the gap to seven. Jamaal Tinsley and Rose each made a pair of free throws to make it 63-58 with 
2:50 left in the third. 
76rs 82, Heat 76 
Allen Iverson missed 22 of 30 shots but the Philadelphia 76ers won their second con­secutive game since his return from elbow surgery, beating the Miami Heat . 
The defending Eastern Conference champions were 0-5 without Iverson. 
Although Iverson scored 25 points. he went 2-for-15 in the second half, missing his final 11 attempts, and is 15­for-58 in two games. Last year's NBA most valuable player had two assists, three steals and seven turnovers. three in the final six minutes. 
Eddie Jones hqd 20 points, 10 rebounds and five assists for the Heat, who lost their third game in a row. Alonzo Mourning was held to 10 points and eight rebounds. 
Derrick Coleman had 21 points and 12 rebounds for the 76ers. 
Iverson missed six of his first seven shots, but Philadelphia jumped ahead 15-6 and led the rest of the way. Iverson's three-point play gave the 76ers their biggest lead at 56-40 early in the third period. 
Jones scored nine consecu­tive Heat points to get them back in the game. Philadelphia went 6:07 with­out a point and Miami scored 12 in a row to close to 66-63. 
Eddie House's basket made it 68-67, but Dikembe Mutombo blocked Anthony Carter's shot when Miami had a chance at a 74-all tie, and the Heat failed to score on their next five possessions. 
Miami's starting forwards, Brian Grant and Tang Hamilton, combined for just four points. 
The Heat went 2-for-11 from 3-point range. It was their first game since their NBA-record streak of making at least one 3-pointer in 594 consecutive games ended Saturday against Sacramento. 
Kings 95, Raptors 86 
• Mike Bibby and Doug Christie scored 20 points apiece as the Sacramento Kings streaked to a huge lead and survived a terrible sec­ond half to beat the Toronto Raptors. Vlade Divac added 14 points and 10 rebounds as the Kings returned from a four-game road trip with a difficult vie­tory that kept them undefeat­ed at Arco Arena this season. 
Bobby Jackson had 13 
points for Sacramento, which jumped out to a 20-point lead but struggled to the final buzzer _ even though Toronto coach Lenny Wilkens removed all of his starters in the clos­ing minutes. 
The Kings overcame 23 points and two highlight-reel dunks by Vince Carter. who led a second-half comeback but was on the bench as Toronto made its last run. 
The Raptors were within a dozen points when Wilkens emptied his bench. After the Kings shot three straight air­balls, Toronto rallied within seven in the final minute. but got no closer. 
Keon Clark had 13 points and 10 rebounds for the Raptors. who lost to Sacramento for the fourth straight time. 
Coach Rick Adelman has asked Bibby to step up his scoring, particularly in Chris Webber's continued absence, and the point guard respond­ed. Bibby made nine straight shots from the opening min­utes of"the first quarter until his layup attempt was blocked midway through the third. 
The Kings won despite a terrible game from Peja Stojakovic, the NBA's sev­enth-leading scorer. Stojakovic is Sacramento's offensive focal point with Webber out because of a sprained ankle. 
He missed nine of his first 11 shots, made five turnovers and finished with eight points -18 below his average. 

Need alift? Don't miss the bus. 
I• 
.-. 
i If·

Who: You and all your friends 
What: Buses ride directly from the 
Snile Museum lo Chicago Airports When: Wednesday November 21, 2001 Where: Bus meets al SnifeMuseum 
15 minutes before time listed 
O'Hare: 8a.m., Noon, 2p.m. Miawoy: l O a.m. 

! 
I I 
I I 
I (
I. 
For people who have to deal with the harsh realities of life, Volunteers of America is there to help. We work in communities across the country providing emer­gency shelter, and services to homeless individuals and families. 
The need is great. And we are there to offer support and compassion to help return people to self­sufficiency. 

Wednesday, November 14, 2001 page 15
The Observer . SPORTS 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
McGwire: 'zero' chance of comeback 
thing. There's absolutely no half I basically wasn't even in of factors led to his decision to winter, I couldn't believe it,"
Associated Press 
way. Zero." existence in baseball," walk away from a $30 million, McGwire said. "I sat back and I McGwire hit 583 home runs, McGwire said. "I feel like I've two-year contract extension, just said, 'How much more can
ST. LOUIS 

17 short of becoming only the been hanging around." including the injuries. my body take?'"
Mark McGwire said there's fourth player in major league That said, McGwire feels ..You can't say that it was the Only one thing about
"zero" chance he'll be like 
history to hit 600. Although he he'll be a first-ballot Hall of season, you can't say it was McGwire 's final seasons makesMichael Jordan and come out said his 400th and 500th Farner along with Cal Ripken the injury, the surgery," him angry, the revelation thatof retirement. 
homers were special, he and Tony Gwynn in five years. McGwire said. "My mind and he was taking androstenedione 
In his 
doesn't want to chase numbers "It's just body are in 1998 -the year he hit a
first inter­
for numbers sake. something that worn out record 70 homers. McGwire
view since 
"I am not going to stick comes after "Heck. the last year-and­from playing stopped taking andro in 1 999.
retiring 
around the game to climb up you have a a-halfI basically wasn't baseball "What a waste of print, what
Sunday, 
the ladder," McGwire said. fantastic since I was a waste of film," McGwire said. 
McGwire 
even in existence
"I've never been like that, I career. " 12-years old. "It has absolutely nothing to do
told ESPN 
never will be like that." McGwire said. in baseball . ., "I'm done. with hitting a baseball.
that his 
McGwire felt he was just tak• "And if the I've always "It helped me get through
mind is 
ing up roster space for the St. writers vote told myself workouts after a game. Believe
made up. Mark McGwire 
McGwire Louis Cardinals, the way his me in the first I'm not going me, 90 percent of athletes take
"Michael 
fonner Cardinal first baseman
career wound down. time with Cal to hang something to help themselves
Jordan can 
He missed most of the second and Tony. that
control the game," McGwire 
half of the 2000 season with an would be total• 
said Tuesday. "Give me the 
injured right knee and only ly awesome."
ball, I'll do what I want with it. 
batted .187 with 29 homers in
When you're a power hitter, 
his final year. 
you're not in control of any• 
"Heck, the last year-and-a• 
A.ND A CA1',..ELLA SACRED WOIIK 
alruchncr 
WEDNESDAY, NOVEM ' 

McGwire said a combination 
Vero Italiano 
Catalino's Trattoria Downtown South Bend 

around and out." just be Cardinals chairman Bill another player." DeWitt Jr., one of the team's 
McGwire had surgery to cor· primary owners, said McGwire rect patella tendinitis after telephoned him Monday night. spending the second half of the DeWitt told the St. Louis Post­2000 season on the disabled Dispatch that he wasn't upset list. He lasted six games in that McGwire had informed 2001 before going back on the ESPN first about his retire• DL, and never felt right. ment, adding that McGwire 
"The thought of rehabbing tried to call him Sunday night again and going to spring but he wasn't home. training and hearing Tony's "That was his prerogative," 45-minute dissertation on. bunt DeWitt told the Post-Dispatch. plays is not appealing whatso• "I don't want to question how ever," McGwire said. "You sit he handled it." back and think about this and The Cardinals are under no you just go, 'I have no desire to financial obligation to do that.' I am so ready to move McGwire, although DeWitt on with the second half of my made it clear that he wanted life." McGwire to continue in some 
McGwire knew something role with the club. DeWitt said was wrong in spring training McGwire could be a spring when he was hitting "lazy fly training instructor like Bob balls" instead of tape-measure Gibson and Lou Brock, but home runs. doubted McGwire would want 
r -
"After the work I did this to do that right away. 
I UNION
I 
I Flu S~-~----------------------~---------------------· 9:00om--4:00pm Dooley Room, LaFun (ID's and short sleeves) I Speaker "Do We Hove a New Economy" 3:00-4: l 5pm O'Shag Hall Women's Volleyball vs. Illinois State 7:00pm JACC
I I
"A one woman ploy on the life of Dorothy Doy' 7:00pm Hesburgh Center Education on Peace & War Discussions 7:30-9:00pm in Morrissey, Keenan/Stonfc:-..J PE, McGlinnI ND Chorale and Chamber Orchestra Concert 8:00pm Basilica free I Coffee at the Co-Mo 8:00-9:00pmI Film "Jung {War): In the Land of the Mujaheddin" 9: 15pm Hesburgh Library Auditorium I "Muslim-Christion Prayer for Peace" l O:OOpm Morrissey Chapel 
. ,. ., ......... . . . ... .. ... 
I 
I ii=iDd=J Flu Shots 9:00om-4:00pm Dooley Room, LaFun (ID's and short sleeves) I Senior Class Dinner 6:30pm BW-3's $2 all you can eat wings "Culture Fest 2001• Multicultural Fair 6:30-9:00pm LoFun Ballroom free food! "Holy Lands and the End of Conquest: The High Price of Notions Today" I 7:00pm McKenno Hall I ND Cinema "Girlfight" 7:00pm Hesburgh Library Auditorium I "King Football, Notre Dome, and American Culture" 7:30-8:30pm 207 DeBartolo
I r 
I 
Education on Peace & War Discussions 7:30-9:00pm Morrissey, Keenan/Stanford, PE, McGlinn "All the World's a Stage and All the Men and Women ore Merely Players" 8:00pm Mendoza College of Business $20 I "Culture Fest 2001 • Open Salsa Night 9:00pm-11 :OOpm Lafun Ballroom 
I Open Skate 9:00pm-11 :OOpm JACC $5 I SUB AcoustiCafe 9:00pm Huddle LaFortune "The Score• and "The Usual Suspects" 1O:OOpm. 101 & 155 DeBortolo. $2/$3.
I I
g·······c·;~d~·di~g··i:i~-~~i·~·t·P~·~~~·&·wa·~·wa~{·-wh~t·w~··H~~~-Lea·~~·~F·..···········································..··················· 
I 12:00pm C-100 Hesburgh Center I Marching Bond Step-off 4:30pm Main Building Swimming vs. Texas Christion University 5:00pm Rolfs Aquatic Center 
. I I
Football Pep Rally 6:30pm WVFI Benefit Show "Aaron Katz of Percy Hill" 7:00-1 O:OOpm LaFun Ballroom $3 donation
I "The Score" and "The Usual Suspects" 1O:OOpm. 101 & 155 DeBartolo. $2/$3. I Men's Basketball vs. New Hampshire 9:00pm Student Activities Crofting Comer: Scrap Booking 9:00-11 :OOpm Dooley Room LoFun
I I
Student Activities Tournament Time: Bingo 11 :OOpm-1 :30om ND Room lofuni§fr9J·---.. Marching Band Step-Off to the Stadium ...........................1.:45pm..........................................................................
I I 
I 
ND Football vs. Navy 2:30pm The Undertones Concert one hour ofter game Bookstore "The Score" and "The Usual Suspects" 1O:OOprn. 101 & 155 DeBortolo. $2/$3. ........Open Karaoke 10:00-11 :30pm LaFun HuddleI P-a~1•I,•1 Women's Basketball vs. Valporais~ 1:OOpm JACC . ND Faculty Chamber Music 2:00pm Annenberg Aud., Snite $3I ...... ND.Brass Ensemble 8:OOpm Basilica 
11111

sponsored by 1=11111•••._l"ftrj Lecture: "Israel's Quest for Peace and the War Against Te;;.orisr.11 · · I Student Union 4:OOpm C-103 Hesburgh Center Men's Basketball vs. Cornell 7 :30pm JACC
Executive Cabinet 

•#IIJ;l······T~¥i.i=ii~··Fe~i~~p·c;;·s·~~tl~;rr;;;·{F~·~·~;f...........................,.:·oo&9;·ooj;;.;;··--··•..m•..··:......M.~~t·:·=rhe~t'e';T~Y=~~......
I 
FREE AND OPEN TOT .. 




~l 
t
I\ \\ page 16 Wednesday, November 14, 200 l 
The Observer . SPORTS 
I * 
{ r
11
\ ~ '(1, 
)\ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL
~ i\ 
~ I I 
\ t:li ­
t 
\ Lawyers meet to discuss contraction 
i \ 
! ,. 
•. 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Lawyers for baseball players and owners hope to agree Wednesday on dates for hear­ing the union's grievance to stop two major league teams from being eliminated. 
The sides planned to speak by telephone with Shyam Das, baseball's arbitrator. 
Commissioner Bud Selig reiterated Tuesday he hopes to complete contraction by Dec. 15, with Montreal and Minnesota the most likely can­didates for elimination, but the union contends the move violates its labor contract and 

\ 
that franchises can't·be folded without its permission. 
Selig acknowledged there was a chance the elimination could be held up by a judge or arbitrator, which could create lame-duck teams. 
"That happened to the Braves in 1965 and it's hap­pened to other clubs, but you can't worry about that," he said. "The intention is to get it done." 


In Washington, Rep. John Conyers and Sen. Paul Wellstone, both Democrats, called a Wednesday news con­ference to introduce legisla­tion to attack baseball's antitrust exemption. On Monday, Senator Majority Leader Tom Daschle asked Selig to delay any decision on folding teams for at least one year. 
"I spoke with· Senator Daschle," Selig said at the Hank Greenberg Sportsmanship Award dinner Tuesday night. "Any conversa­tions I've had with people like that stays between us." 
Florida Attorney General Bob Butterworth subpoenaed documents 
from Selig 
"Why are they always 

and the 
two teams hiding behind closed 
in his state doors? They act like they on Tuesday 
are electing a pope. " 

to find out if Florida and Tampa Bob Butterworth 
Bay are Florida attorney general
candidates for elimi­nation. 
"The people of Florida are entitled to some straight answers about the future of baseball in Florida," Butterworth said. 
The subpoenas require base­ball turn over documents to Butterworth by Dec. 13 ­including all studies, research or reports relating to contrac­tion and any documents relat­ing to the Nov. 6 meeting and the contraction vote that day. 
Butterworth also wants doc­uments relating to profits or losses by the two Florida teams and major league base­ball, as well as the potential economic impact to Miami and ed the Twins and baseball the Tampa-St. Petersburg from an investigation by its area of losing the teams. attorney general. 
Butterworth thinks owners In Minneapolis, a court already might have decided hearing on a lawsuit filed which two teams will be against the Twins by the dropped. Metropolitan Sports Facilities 
"It's not going to be easy for Commission was been delayed baseball to move out of the again after a second judge state of Florida," Butterworth was removed from the case. said. Hennepin County District 
"Why are they always hiding Court Judge Harry Crump is 
behind closed expected to hear the case doors? They act Thursday.· The ·lawsuit is like they are attempting to force the Twins electing a to play in the Metrodome pope." through the end of their lease 
F l o r i d a ' s in 2002. Supreme Court Crump replaced Judge ruled in 1994 Catherine Anderson, who was that baseball's antitrust exemp­
tion didn't apply to franchise 
movement. Minnesota's Supreme Court ruled the opposite way two years ago, saying the exemption protect-
NORTRFiCE

Cold Weather Experts 
5minutes from Campus 
Call 259-1000 for mare details 
picked to hear the case last week after lawyer Roger Magnuson, who represents the Twins and Selig, filed a notice removing Judge Diana Eagon. 
Eagon issued a temporary restraining order barring the Twins from being eliminated. The commission is seeking a permanent injunction. 
In Montreal, Gold Glove shortstop Orlando Cabrera was selected the Expos player of the year by the Montreal chapter of the Baseball Writers' Association of America. Cabrera, who hit .276 with 41 doubles and 96 RBIs, hoped he doesn't become the final winner. 




i 
II 
I 
l 


atlve America 
....,,. 


~~,'~Q-&:
' -.~ ' .,,.....t ...... 4-_ 
.~l·~: , 
""""""­

EVENTS 

1--.th

Noven,ber _,
Evan Adams Jackie Bird 
M<wic Night rt~i. Dillon I lall 
C'o1ne take a fr1scinating 24-1 lour space 1,ii 7pm Conic be a part of a \vonderful journey into the custotns, ., experience that includes culture, and accomplishrncnts Novcrnber I 4th conten1porary and traditional 
of Native An1cricans. Evan 111usic. songs. and dances. 
Native /\rt Tour ·,ii Snitc tv1uscum Adarns is an accomplished Join us as \Ve share this 
Call 6J4-473~ l'ilr details actor, writer, and dancer. Join experience \Vith Jackie Bird, a 
us for a personal account of Novcn1ber I 5th Native J\n1cri~an who has Evan's experiences. rnastercd the ski Ils necessary Native Dancing with the family or 
to preserve her culture. 

I,awrcnc\: Santiago. 2002 (ii! 8pn1 
th · 

When: Nov. 12''\ 2001 @ When: Nov. 16 . 2001 (Z~ 7:00ptn 8:00pn1 Where: Reckers Hospitality Where: Notre Darnc Faculty Roon, f)inine. Roon1 
•Native American Wt~k i\ i:o-sponsurcd hy NASAND and MSPS 

'J 

•: 
Wednesday, November 14, 200 I page 17 
The Observer . SPORTS 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
BCS gives Oregon new hope for national title 
1, 6-1 Pac-10) at the fifth book. them would mean. Washington and No. 18
. Fourth-ranked 
spot. with 11.98 points, is "It's definitely exciting to Should Washington State Virginia Tech.Ducks in hunt Florida, followed by Texas, be rated that high; it's awe­Iose to Wash ingto n on And then there's the Big Tennessee, Washington some really, but whatever Saturday in the Apple Cup, 12 teams in Nebraska and
despite single loss 
State and Stanford. happens, happens." the Ducks could lose to the Oklahoma. The Sooners have The top two teams in the Bauman can hardly be Beavers and still be guaran­only Texas Tech and ByJEFF SMITH final BCS rankings on Dec. 9 blamed for not wanting to teed at least a berth in the Oklahoma State left, but 
Oregon Daily Emerald 
will meet in the Jan. 3 Rose think about all that has to Fiesta Bowl in Tempe, Ariz., then must win in the league Bowl and play for the happen for the Ducks to on New Year's Day. Should championship game on Dec. 
EUGENE. Ore. national title. Which leaves make a return trip to the Cougars win, though, 1. Oklahoma's opponent in 
Nebraska is one. Miami is the Ducks with two week­Pasadena. The BCS stand­Oregon would continue to that game will be decided on two. Oklahoma's three. ends off to watch and wait to ings can be quite confusing reap the benefits from its Nov. 24 when second-ranked And the Oregon Ducks, see how it all plays out, when considering that win in Pullman, Wash., and Nebraska visits No. 15 who reside in the wacky pefore worrying about they're formulated using gain those bonus BCS points. Colorado. · West Coast Oregon both the coaches and media "I don't worry about that," As for Texas, it needs a Pac-10 
State on polls, eight Oregon head Sooner loss and a victory Conf-Dec. 1. separate coach Mike against Texas A&M to play . erence. As of computer "It's definitely exciting to Bellotti said in the Big 12 title game and are still in rankings, Monday. "I keep its Rose Bowl hopes
Monday, be rated that high: it's 
the hunt though, the strength don't root for alive. 
awesome, really,
for the Oregon of schedule, anybody other A good scenario for the national w o u I d the teams' but whatever than the Ducks would be if' they beat champi­rather just records and happens. happens." Ducks. We the Beavers, and Miami (8­onship at enjoy its a d d e d need to do the 0). Florida (8-1) and the fourth Peelle 21-20 win points for best we can Oklahoma (9-1) all lost once, spot. over UCLA "quality Rashad Bauman to try and get leaving Oregon possibly in a 
In the latest Bowl and not worry too much wins," Oregon comerback a victory in date with Nebraska (11-0) Championship Series rank­about all the pesky little which are the Civil War. on Jan. 3. ings released Monday, details regarding the BCS victories "There are "We can't really think 
Oregon leapfrogged Texas standings. over teams currently in the still a lot of what-ifs." about or dwell on those and Tennessee up to No. 4 "Won't catch no rise out BCS top 15. Anything is possible in the games because it's not in with a total of 11.97 BCS me," cornerback Rashad For Oregon, that win is remaining weeks of the sea­our hands," Bauman said. points, where less is best. Bauman said. "It ain't no big against Washington State. son, but good teams need to "We let that slip away when 
"Who would of thought deal if it ain't one or two. I giving the Ducks reason to lose to give Oregon a chance we lost to Stanford. If it's that?" Oregon tight end mean, that's what every­r o o t f o r the C o u'g a rs this at sneaking up even more. two undefeated teams left at Justin Peelle said. "I thought body's shooting to get at and week despite what a loss by "I don't know how it all the end, then they deserve they had all written us off by three, four, five, six, seven, works exactly but a couple to play, without a doubt. If now." eight, nine, 10, they're all in of teams still have some big it's not, who knows. 
Just behind the Ducks (9-the same bracket in my games left," quarterback "I'm definitely ready to go 




Cesar Lara 
Come see the paintings of this world-renowned artist from the Dominican Republic in the Coalition lounge on the second floor of LaFun 
Wednesday, November 14th Thursday, November 15th 


I 
_,
Joey Harrington said. to the Rose Bowl if they call, Florida is the team on the but whatever one we get 
rise with remaining comput­into will be the game that
··-er-friendly games against we deserve."Special on 
No. 21 Florida State and No. Added Bellotti: "We know 6 Tennessee. Miami has we're going to be in a bowl
Color Copies 
re a.ch e d the meat of its game, we just don't know schedule and after surviving which one, and obviously
8.5 X 11 

a Boston College scare. now we're hoping to get to the regular paper only 
must tread through No. 14 very best bowl game possi­Syracuse, No. 16 ble."
.79 

The Guitar Player's Association 
Presents Notre Dame's Own 
PROFESSOR OF THE BLUES: 
Don Savoie 
Jams Reckers Thursday, 11 :00 PM 
I I 
Wednesday, Novemeber 14, 2001

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Canseco brothers arrested after Halloween brawl 
Associated Press 
MIAMI BEACH, Fla. 

Jose Canseco was arrested Tuesday on charges he and his brother got into a nightclub fight that left one man with a broken nose and another needing 20 stitches in his lip. 
The baseball -star was charged with two counts of aggravated battery in the Halloween night scuffle. His twin brother, Ozzie, was charged with one count. 
Canseco said he was at the club with his brother and three women when a man grabbed the player's date inappropriately and became aggressive. Canseco said another man approached his brother, who pushed him back, touching off the fight. 
"I know that my brother and myself were definitely victims and the girl I was with got sexually assaulted," Jose Canseco said. "We got attacked. We are the victims here. We just defended our­selves." 
The brothers were taken to Miami-Dade County Jail on Tuesday night and were expected to post bond. 
"Jose and Osvaldo are both looking forward to defending this matter vigorously in court," lawyer Angel Ruiz said. "They both feel these allega­tions are false and are the source of people with financial motives." 
One man's nose was broken and the other needed 20 stitch­

"We got attacked. We are the victims here. We just defended ourselves.,. 
Jose Canseco free agent 

es to his lip, Miami Beach Police Detective Bobby Hernandez said. 
"This started as a verbal altercation. And then the two Canseco brothers basically beat these guys up, putting them in the hospi­tal," Hernandez said. "Obviously this was an anger control prob• lem." 
Canseco has been in trouble with the law before. In 1997, police arrested him on charges he smacked his second wife in the head. He was ordered to undergo battery counseling. 
In 1992, he was charged with aggravated assault for ramming his vehicle into a new car driven by his first wife. He agreed to community service and counseling. . 
Canseco, 37, is a free agent after hitting .258 with 16 homers and 49 RBI for the Chicago White Sox last season. The 1988 AL MVP is 22nd on the career homer list with 462. 
Mll<:A 

A JAPAN(~€ ~(STAU2AhJ 
(..arry Out and DinP. In 
Cleveland 
402 US 31 North South Bend, IN 46637 (219) 272-2535 

Great Japanese food at areat prices. 
Come join us for our lunch specials! 
Early Bird Dinner $1 :50 off for Students 



Braves ink third-sacker Jones to $75 million deal 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA 
Andruw Jones could have tested his value on the open market after next season. Instead, he decided to stay with the Atlanta Braves. 
Jones and the Braves agreed Tuesday to a $75 million, six-year con­
tract that runs through 2007. 
"Everybody was talking about going to free agency," Jones said. "That was all just talk. I told the Braves when we were done with the season that we would talk and we would come to 

an agreement." Jones 
That's exactly what hap­pened. General manager John Schuerholz said the two sides met Monday and had no trouble working out a deal. 
"Andruw decided what he wanted to do," Schuerholz said. "When we spoke, we learned quickly that we were pretty much on the same page." 
Jones batted only .251 and struck out 142 times, but he also had 34 homers, 104 RBIs and won his fourth straight Gold Glove. 
"He was still able to amass very, very strong numbers as far as run production," Schuerholz said. "No one is totally happy with what Andruw did as compared to what he is capable of doing. But we still think he's one of the best, brightest, exciting young players in all of base­ball." 
Jones is represented by Scott Baras, who has compared the 24-year-old outfielder with another of his clients, shortstop Alex Rodriguez. Almost a year ago, Rodriguez agreed to a record $252 million, 10-year deal with Texas. 
While Jones won a record $8.2 million in salary arbitration last winter, he insisted that money was not his primary objective. He relied heavily on the counseling of his father, Henry. 
"I don't want to have more money than everybody," Jones said. "I just want to live comfortable. In the future, I don't want to do something else to raise my family. But I never thought about making $20 million." 
He would have been eligible for free agency 

after the 2002 World Series but felt comfort­
able with the Braves, a team that has won 10 

straight division titles. 
Jones alluded to Rodriguez, who had the best 

season of his career while the Rangers were 
finishing last in the AL West. 
"All those people making $20 million never 

make the playoffs," Jones said. "I want to stay 
with a team that's going back to the playoffs, 
back to the World Series." 
Jones' best year was 2000, when ,he batted .303 with 36 homers and 104 RBIs. This past season, he reported to spring training a little heavier and saw his average slip 52 points. His strikeouts jumped from 100 to 142. 
Those numbers may have contributed to the firing of batting coach Merv Rettenmund, the only member of the staff who wasn't brought back for 2002. 
"I didn't have the great season that every• body expected me to have," Jones said. "This is a good chance for me to tie in for six years. When I'm 30, I can be a free agent again and we can make decisions on the contract again." 
Jones broke in with the Braves at age 19, homering in his first two World Series at-bats at Yankee Stadium in 1996. He became a full­time starter the following season. 
The long-term signing of Jones begins what figures to be a busy offseason for the Braves, who won lost to Arizona in the NL champi­onship series. 
Closer John Smoltz, catcher Javy Lopez, All­Star pitcher John Burkett and nine other play­ers have filed for free agency. 
"It really doesn't change anything," Schuerholz said. "We do have some cost cer­tainly with Andruw, which will be helpful as we move through the process. But we've got to be fluid and flexible." 
KING FOOTBALL, NOTRE DAME and AMERICAN CULTURE 
Alecture by: 
Professor Michael Oriard, ND '70 Currently a Distinguished Professor of American Literature and Culture at 
Oregon State University 
Please join us! 
When: Thursday, November 15, 2001 Time: 7:30 Where: DeBartolo 207 
Sponsored by the Mendelson Center for Sport, Character and Culture and the Department of American Studies 

Wednesday, November 14, 2001 

The Observer . TODAY '-page 19 
RYAN

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED
FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY 
CUNNINGHAM 

I'U. JVST At>t> YOVA RESVME TO THE 
SYSTEM. ANC> WE'LL 
6ET BACK TO YOU 



FOXTROT BILL AMEND 
" 
LET HER WEAR HER 
NICE IT'S A 
I CAN'T WAIT ToSTUPID HARRY PoTTER 

OUMBLE• 
DoRE GANDALF
(;LASSES ALL WEEK... 
HEAR HER SCREAM. 




-------------------------------------------------~-----------------------­

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 35 Like some port 58 They can be 1 Click authorities produced by shifting
9 Inferior • 38 Scuttlebutt 61 Shark
15 1964 Lennon/ 40 Roaring Fork 
McCartney song River city 62 Blown away by 63 Satisfies
16 Developed 41 Beat 64 Breaking items?
17 Lightener 43 First U.S. vice 18 One taking the president not to stage? become DOWN president
19 To a tee 1 Con go basih 44 Literary denizen
20 Essences monogram 2 Clarifying words22 Bridge bid, 45 Rather inclined 3 More sharp 
informally 4 Workers' grp.
25 _-cochere 48 Mil. address (carriage 5 Medical
49 Monopoly

entrance) examiner's subj.
decision 26 Domingo, e.g. 6 Narc linkup? 
51 Opening 

28 Hint 7 Disgusted
53 Become 8 San Francisco30 "Uh-uh" affected Bay city 31 Shed 56 "In Dreams" 9 Polished

32 Baits actor, 1999 10 Fancy34 Kosher 57 Declining state 
11 a_way!" 
12 Stubborn types
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
13 Capital since 
~--1960 Puzzle by Rich Norrll 14 Fine.grained 
35 Yeast cake 49 Mifitary pilot's 55Aow
'"e!."t.,.,+.,,,.+~~!'e"t-,~" wood 
concern

36 Hemmer's 57 Written in a21 Lowbrow comment 50 Plays major key, in23 Go on 37 Appear 52 Brewery music 
_.......,,... 24 Swell area 
overnight equipment 59 Brutal ending? 
27 Mason, e.g.: 
39 They can cover 54 Historic Irish 60 Mark of 
-,-+=+,,....~" Abbr. 

a lot of space village perfection29 One may be 42 Corkscrew
seen after a crash: Abbr. 44 Signal receivers 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle ....,.......,...,.,.._ ...... ...,_. 31 Hybrids of the 46 Place for are available by touch-tone phone:24-Down impulse buying? 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute).--+-+~.....,,,........ 33 Darius l's land 47 Like some Annual subscriptions are available for the .,.,..-+~,,,...,......,.,.. 34 "Hideaway" undergrad best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 actress studies years: 1 ·888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community, 
Joi-9 the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
;..

D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name ______________________ Address ___________________ 
..,

City _______State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON you must to avoid verbal feuds. THIS DAY: Prince Charles, 00 
Boutros-Boutros Ghali, Yanni, VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22):Laura San Giacomo, Patrick War­Insensitivity to other people'sburton feelings will cause problems. You 
Happy Birthday: You will be must be careful not to reveal in the limelight tnis year. Your secrets or exchange gossip today. innate ability to handle addition­Think before acting ifyou wish to 
al responsibilities will put you in avoid discord. 0000 an elite category. Your unique LIBRA (Sept 23-Oct. 22): Get approach will bring added perks involved in some wheeling and from those grateful for your dealing today, but don't spend expertise. Satisfaction will be more tnan you can afford to lose. 
yours. Your numbers: 8, 13, 22, Real estate investments will be 29, 31, 45 prosperous. Expect to make ARIES (March 21-April 19): changes in your Iiving arrange­
Play by the rules. Don't take ments. Secrets are likely to be advantage of your expense revealed. 000 account. You will not impress SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): clients by being generous. Do Arguments will lead to preoccu­your job well to get the best pation and carelessness. Try to 
results. Hard work will pay off. channel your energy into pnysi­000 cal activity. Make changes to your 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): home that will please everyone You will be disciplined enough to you live with. 00 get your work done and then SAGil'L\RIUS (N<N 22-Dec. 21); may find yourself daydreaming. It's time to keep a secret. Don't 
Find out what kind of deal you give out personal information can get on your next vacation. that you don't want spread000 around. Someone you least GEMINI (May 21~June 20): expect may want to make you 
You may misunderstand a situa• look bad. 000 tion today. Don't let your emo­CAPRICORN (Dec 22·Jan. 19): tions interfere with efficiency. You You can convince even the tough­are likely to have difficulties with est opponent to think your way. 
colleagues if you get involved in You can assume a leadership gossip. Keef' your nose out of position if wish. 0000 other people s business. 000 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): It's time to focus on making some You can meet potential partners money. Financial investments by socializing with new acquain­with other people can be tances. Join groups or dubs that extremely prosperous. Partners 
offer something different. The may try to argue, so stand up for more people you meet, the more your rights. 00 you will learn. 00000 PISCTS (Feb. 19-March 20): If 
LEO {July 23-Aug. 22): Be you voice your opinions, you will careful not to hurt someone's be frowned upon. Someone may feelings. You may not do it inten­be trying to damage your reputa­tionally, but the ramifications will tion by: twisting your words and be exaggerated. Compromise if using them against you. 000 
Birthday Baby: You have a powerful way of expressing yourself and a courageous manner that will not go unnoticed. You will always go one step further. 
(Need advice? Oteck out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialastcom, astromate.com.) 
C> 2001 Universal Press Syndicate 

}··, 
. ) 
1 
Ii
' ) 

·, 
THE ·

National Sports National Sports
OBSERVER 
. Randy Johnson, p. 12

. 
Baseball, p. 16 


. Oregon, p. 17 
. NBA, p. 14 

. Braves p. 18 . Mark McGwire , p. 15 
Wednesday, November 13, 2001 
FOOTBALL 
Davie refuses to resign 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Sports Writer 
Bob Davie said there were "zero" circumstances that he could envision that might prompt him to resign as Notre Dame's head foot­ball coach. 
"I have too much invested," Davie said at his Tuesday press con­ference when asked about the possibility of 'his resignation. 
Davie said he plans to stick to the terms of the five-year contract extension he signed with Notre Dame in December 2000 and remain as head coach. 
"I totally plan on being back here next year and continue to try and get this football team to improve," he said. "In "/ totallyDecember I 
plan on
made a 
long term being back 
commit­here next ment to 
year and
N o t r e 
continue to 
Dame. It's· a place I try to get wanted to 
this football 
be and 
team to
coach." 
D a v i e improve ... said he has always 
Bob Davie

worked  as  
hard as  he  head football  
can  to  coach  
make Notre  
Dame bet­ 
ter and has  no  intentions of  
No. 24 Irish to face Illinois State 


stopping now. 
"A lot of people have invest­ed a lot in this program but no one has as much invested in it -as I do," he said. "I haven't spent one minute try­ing to do anything on the side ... I mean. every second of my time has gone into this foot­ball team." 
Davie said that no one is more frustrated about the 3-5 start to the season than he is but believes the Irish can win their last three games to fin­ish 6-5. He also said the Irish have a lot of positives looking ahead to next season. 

see DAVIE/page 13 

WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish bash Buccaneers 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 
The score wasn't the only thing that looked different on Tuesday night. 
Last week, with four min­utes left in the first half in an exhibition match with Ohio Girls' Basketball Legends, the Irish were trailing by 10. On Tuesday they were leading by more than 20 against the Christian Brothers Buccaneers. Last week fresh­man post. player Jackie Batteast began the game with four missed shots. On Tuesday she had two points on the board less than six seconds into regulation play. 
It was a more confident team that took the court on Tuesday night and came home with a decisive 87-39 victory against the Christian Brothers Buccaneers. 
"I thought we did some real­ly good things," head coach Muffet McGraw said...Our effort was tremendous. I think that's one thing -this team works tremendously hard, really battling the boards." 
Batteast, who had a difficult game last Tuesday against the Ohio Girls Basketball Magazine Legends, led that effort. After going 4 for 17 from the floor last week, she opened the game with a field said. "I knew she was long and defensive rebounds and forced improving." goal and racked up eight athletic, but she's got a really Christian Brothers to go 0-8 With junior Amanda points by halftime. quick first step. Her stealing early in the game. It wasn't Barksdale still out with an 
"It felt good to make a shot," skills are a lot better than they until the 13-minute mark that injury and sole senior Ericka she said. "I was happy to actu-· were when I last saw her play the Buccaneers got their first Haney sidelined for breaking a ally start off with a bucket." Ea year ago." basket. team rule, the line-up looked 
Batteast finished the game The solid Irish defense had "I was very pleased with the different. Despite the change with 17 points, six rebounds 15 steals -a stark contrast to defense in the first half," in the Irish line-up and the and four steals. the team that struggled defen­McGraw said. "I thought we varied configurations through­
"I didn't realize how quick sively in the first half of its did a very good job. That's out the game, the Irish adjust­[Batteast] was," Buccaneers opening exhibition. something we've been working head coa_ch Todd Schaefer Notre Dame totaled 29 on. I think our man-to-man is see HOOPS/page 13 

ND WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL 
Outside hitter Marcie Bomhack will last time."
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
miss playing in an arena in which As much as Irish head coach Debbie 
Sports Editor 
Notre Dame has won 19 matches in a Brown loves her seniors. nights like row dating back to a loss last fall tonight are ones she never looks for­It should be both entertaining and against then-No. 7 ward to. emotional in the Joyce Center tonight Colorado State. "It's emotional for the seniors, it's when the No. 24 Notre Dame volleyball "It's always fun to emotional for the team, it's emotional 
team takes on Illinois State. The team play at home and for the staff," Brown said. "I guess will honor its three seniors before have your fans sup­part of it is we know the season isn't their final career home game in a con­porting you and play over. It's kind of one of those things test televised by WHME-46 and desig­in front of people you where you're sad for a few minutes but 
nated by the athletic department as a know and you feel you just get back into the game and ·"Gold Game." comfortable playing you play.""I'm excited and sad," said senior in front of here," Kristy Kreher, the final senior in the 
middle blocker Malinda Goralski. "It's Bomhack said. "It'll · group, is focusing more on tonight's been a wonderful four years and it's be fun to be able to crazy that it went by so fast." do that and also sad because it's the see VOLLEYBALL/page 13 



. ND Volleyball vs. Illinois State, Today, 7 p.m. 
OBSERVER

. Men's Basketball vs.New Hampshire, Friday, 9p.m.
SPORTS 

o n !i n e edition 
. Hockey at Western Michigan, Friday, 7p.m.AT AGLANCE . Football vs. Navy, Saturday, 2:30 p.m. http://www.nd.edu/ ~observer 






