
Why not drive to London? 
Image of violent America 
Friday
Study abroad programs give us some time to 
This is one ND student's experience with the 
travel -so where are you going to go? Maybe 
influence ofthe American media on children in 
you should be prepared for a road trip. 
Austria. 
MARCH 30, 
Scene . page 14-15 
Viewpoint . page 12 
2001 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 113 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

O'Donoghue looks back, Norton takes office 
By lAURA ROMPF Associate News Editor 
Jonathan Jorrissen sat in the 
student government office 
Wednesday night with his legs 
propped up on the conference 
table. In three days, he would 
take the office of chief of staff 
and while some would be ner­
vous, Jorrissen seemed quite 
comfortable during his first 
media interview. 
His predecessor, current chief of staff Jay Smith, also had his legs propped on the table -only they pointed in the opposite direction. How appropriate. 
Jorrissen faced the center of the student government office where he will soon be part of a new administration. headed by the first female student body president Brooke Norton. Smith faced the door to the outside of the ofiice. On April 1, he and cur­rent student body president Brian 0'Donoghue will leave office. 
For the past month, the two administrations have gone through a transition period. According to Jorrissen, the new administration hopes to build on 0'Donoghue's, while also imple­menting new programs. 
Something Old 
Compared to previous adminis­trations, 0'Donoghue's staff has completely expanded the role of what student government can accomplish. From implementing the Rector's Endowment Fund, which sets aside thousands of dollars for students in need, to establishing Founder's Day, a carnival that brought several campus organizations together, the current administration has surpassed most expectations. 

"I think we've really accom­plished a lot people said we couldn't accomplish," 0'Donoghue said. "Time and time again we went after a goal and accomplished it." 
Smith attributed the success of the administration to the hard working staff, which came in nearly everyday to the office. 
"I think the most important thing we did was set a high stan­dard for future administrations," Smith said. 
Since Norton's election on Feb. 15, the current administration has been working with Norton newly elected vice president Brian Moscona and Jorrissen. According to both the old and new administrations, the transi­tion has been smooth. 
"I think our administration was special because we laid out 
a vision and went out and tried to do it," Smith said. "I hope and pray this new administration has a vision. We did our best in the past month to try and prepare them for what they will face." 
0'Donoghue said he is never satisfied and the administration could've done more, but overall he thinks they did the best they could have with the tools they were given. 
"I recognize my time is over," 0'Donoghue said. "It's time to get some new blood and new ideas into this office." 
Something New 
Thursday night, Norton began moving boxes from her current office, across the room to the president's office. There were pictures to be hung and comput­
see NEW/page 4 


• 


Saint Mary's issues security alert 
was reported on Mar. 25 at 8 p.m., and occurred on
. Students report three sexual 
Cedar Street in South Bend. The alleged victim has also assaults in last week , filed charges with the South Bend Police Department. 
By MYRA McGRIFF 
Saint Mary's Editor 

Saint Mary's Student Affairs office released an assault notice to campus Thursday afternoon over e-mail, notify­ing students, faculty and staff that three separate inci­dents of alleged sexual assault have been reported in the past week. 
"Three Saint Mary's students have reported being assaulted," wrote Linda Timm, vice president of Student Affairs. in the e-mail. "All three students know the identity of their assailant. There were not stranger assaults. Two of the assaults did occur on campus, one occurred off­campus," wrot.e Timm. 
Two out of the three alleged assaults were-reported to campus security, according to the campus logbook The Observer obtained Thursday. 
The first case was referred to the security office on March 29, and occurred in Regina Hall on Mar. 22 at 4:20 
p.m. The alleged assailant was identified. The second case 
The third case has gone unreported to campus security as of Thursday, said Richard Clebeck, director of campus security. Clebeck told The Observer Wednesday a faculty member and a student reported the incident on behalfof the victim to an administrator at Saint Mary's. 
It has been the practice ofsecurity and student affairs to notify the campus only when the a..,;;;sailant is unknown, Oebeck said. "When the identity ofthe assailant is known the danger is diminished," Oebeck said. 
Timm advised students to report all cases of sexual assault to a friend, security officer, resident assistant, hall director, faculty member, counselor or campus minister, in addition to reporting the incident to campus security. She also encouraged students to seek medical attention should they be the victim ofan attack. 
..Reporting an incident of sexual assault is critically important," Timm wrote. "Even if your choice is not to pursue any kind of formal action, we want to be of assis­tance to you." 
Timm could not be reached for further comment Thursday evening. 

University names Higgins Laetare Medal recipient 
By ALYSON TOMME 

News Writer 

Monsignor George Higgins can now include himself in the company of former President John F. Kennedy, social activist Sister Helen Prejean. and Catholic Worker founder Dorothy Day. As the recipient of the University's Laetare Medal for the year 2001, Higgins has distinguished himself as a prominent and honorable American Catholic. 
"I look at the list of who's received it before -some I've known personally or by reputation -and they are very distinguished," he said. "It feels very humbling to be in the same category." 
The Laetare Medal, the oldest and most prestigious 
see lAETARE/page 4 

r.::_ 
Friday, March 30, 200 l 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 




Where is Little 
Juan? 
Earlier this year I had an epiphany. 

As I strolled into LaFortune late one evening, I felt the familiar sting of hunger race through my stomach, and I decided that I needed to find something to eat. This was an incredible hunger, one that I had never felt before. Not just any snack would do. Tomassito's was right out, because the pizza sucks. And everyone knows that Burger King smells better in the dumpster the next day -I just don't trust anything that cooks on a conveyor belt. My options were limit­ed, and I was growing more and more hungry, when in the corner ofthe Huddle Mart, a choir of angels sang out to me, and a golden flash appeared before my eyes, and I first beheld the beauty that is the Little Juan frozen burrito. 
Before this happened, I always thought that 7­Eleven was the only place to go for frozen burri­tos. That's the one thing I've learned about love, that you always find it in the last place you look. But there it was the whole time, right in front of me, hanging out under the cookie dough batter, next to the cheese cubes. Llttle Juan promised a red-hot supreme burrito, full of shredded beef steak and jalapeno peppers. I was ready to test the accuracy of such bold advertisement. 
I grabbed the burrito from the icy cold cooling unit and paid for it, then ran back to Dillon to prepare my feast. After a short minute and 45 seconds, I beheld the finest cuisine to ever come out of a microwave. Sometimes you can just tell when something feels right in a relationship. You have compatible likes. I like eating the burrito 
• and it likes being in my stomach. I bet you're saying "yeah, and then sitting on the toilet for the whole next day." This is untrue. Little Juan makes a kinder frozen burrito, one that will not cause gastro-intestinal problems. It is simply a delicious way to get 65 percent of your daily allowance of fat in one gluttonous debacle. 
As time went on, I tried other frozen burritos, but I kept coming back to Little Juan and his wonderful _variety of meat and bean matter-filled burritos. I could always count on Llttle Juan being there for me, no matter how b;id my week was going. I could always have a burrito if I really needed one. I'm sorry to say that every­thing changed last week. All of a sudden, Llttle Juan stopped being there for me. I walked into the Huddle Mart after a rough week in the lab, and in Little Juan's designated area were frozen gorditas! These bastardized frozen burrito prod­ucts had taken away my birthright, and I was visibly upset. Did the cashiers care about my extreme displeasure? When I asked the young man about the location of Little Juan's burritos, all he could offer in response was "What?" 
I left the Huddle Mart sadly that day, my friends. There would be no more burrito good­ness because Llttle Juan had sold out. So gather your friends today and storm into LaFortune, and don't leave until the working manager signs the order that will ensure the return of Little Juan to his shelf. Then feast on the ambrosia­like Little Juan Burrito. With steak and jalapenos! 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 

Meribel Morey Amanda Greco Kelly Hager Graphics Andrew Thaggard Karie McKenna 
Sports Production 
Lauren Kelly Colleen McCarthy Viewpoint Lab Tech Pat Peters Lisa Velte 
The Observer (USPS S99 2-4000) is publisht"d Monday through Friday excepc during exam and vac:uion periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All rt'production righu arc re~rved. 
THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN 
Law School files to delay decision 
The University of Michigan Wednesday filed a motion for a stay in order to stall U.S. District Judge Bernard Friedman's order that the Law School discon­tinue its use of race as a factor in admissions. Also Wednesday, the 6th Circuit Court of Appeals in Cincinnati agreed to hear the appeal for the lawsuit challenging the admissions policies of the College of Literature, Science and the Arts. General Counsel Liz Barry said the University expected the higher court to take the l5A case. Center for Individual Right director of legal affairs Curt Levey agreed, calling the 6th Circuit's decision "totally expected." It has not been determined when the higher court will hear oral argu­ments in the case, but each side must submit briefs to the court in advance. In December, U.S. District Judge Patrick Duggan granted summary judgment in favor of the University, which decided the case without holding a trial. In his opinion, Duggan wrote that the University's current system of admissions is legal, but the "grid" system used from 1995-1998 was not. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
Sophomores earn vehicle privileges Priest protests gay discrimination 
March 30, 1971 March 25, 1998 
The Student Life Council voted to allow sophomores cars Father David Garrick, a Notre Dame communications on campus, ruling against a previous legislation which stat-and theater professor, spoke to a supportive crowd ed that vehicles negatively influenced academics. The pro-after he resigned. He said that he would be leaving the posal was based on statistics which pointed out that University because, as a celibate homosexual, he felt he although sophomore had more overall academic problems was the object of discrimination by the administration. than juniors or seniors, the diference was not significant "Nobody has secure rights until everyone has equal enough to merit a ban on transportation. rights," Garrick said. 
EASTERN CONNETICUT STATE 
School games deemed unhealthy 
Generations of people grew up playing dodge ball and other childhood games. However, according to a recent study, these games might cause psychological damage. The study, led by Neil Williams, professor of physical education at Eastern Connecticut State University, states that many traditional games are played with the intent to harm. These games also result in isolation between children and their peers. according to the study. Williams compiled a "Hall of Shame" list of all games that should be removed from schools. Included in this list are dodge ball, kickball, Simon Says and Duck Duck Goose. According to the list, dodge ball is played with an intent to harm. play­ing kickball and Duck Duck Goose promotes cliques, and playing Simon Says eliminates players based on ability. Ruth Esry, principal of Pleasant Acres Elementary School in Rantoul, has been involved in education for many years, during which she has seen children play these games. Esry admits that the games usually lead to isolation of certain children. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Duke student group protests advertisement 
DURHAM ..Duke creates ... an atmos­out reads. "Instead, Duke creates an Protests catalyzed by The atmosphere that alienates us, an
phere that makes black stu­
Chronicle's publication of an adver­atmosphere that makes black stu­tisement opposing reparations for dents in particular feel they dents in particular feel they have to slavery continued with a vigil last have to continually defend continually defend their right to be night, followed by a rally. The stu­here."
their right to be here. ·•
dents -who call themselves the The objectives listed in the state­Duke University Student Movement -ment include the fallowing: that Duke outlined five objectives for the admin­Statement from Duke University appoint a task force to compile an istration and one for The Chronicle. annual report on efforts to improve
Student Movement 
Dressed in black, the students held the treatment of minority students; a vigil outside Cameron Indoor that it actively recruit minority faculty Stadium during an All-America bas­handling of the ad, but not the deci­and provide reports on this initiative; ketball game. Later in the evening, sion to run it. The group is now that it provide a center for cultural 
about 75 students chanted phrases focusing on actions Duke University academic and social programming such as "D-U-K-E, you will not silence should take on minority issues in gen­for the black community; that it me!" and "You say free speech! We eral. establish a stable, well-supported say hate speech!" A handout distrib­"For many of us, the central issue is African and African-American uted by members of the movement Duke's failure to create a climate Studies program; and that it imple­
indicates that although students con­where the voices of minority people ment a plan to increase funding for tinue to object to The Chronicle's are valued and supported," the hand-minority events and organizations. 


5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather 19 forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
e
sos 

~ 2001 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
P,nsun,: 
®COD ..... 

High Low Showers Rain T•storm1 Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt Cloudy Cloudy 
Atlanta 39 36 Las Vegas 80 60 Portland 56 38 Baltimore 49 37 Memphis 60 42 Sacramento 77 52 Boston 39 27 Milwaukee 47 33 St. Louis 56 38 Chicago 60 48 New York 45 35 Tampa 70 48 Houston 68 45 Philadelphia 51 36 Washington DC 50 38 

Friday, March 30, 2001 page 3
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Students hope to dust away Women's Center's old image 

By MYRA McGRIFF Saint Mary's Editor 
The Women's Center was once only the vision of two Saint Mary's students. Today, seven years after the first opening of the Center, the small room in the basement of LeMans Hall will open its doors once again and try to rekindle that vision. 
Working on an independent study project, Teresa Lynch and Karen Jurgenson designed a proposal to create a physical space on campus that could be the hub for women's concerns. Their vision became a reality more than seven years ago when in the last months of their senior year, the proposal for the Women's Center was approved. 
The two students started their research into establishing the center under the pretext of addressing problems that had no forum for discussion on Saint Mary's campus. In their consti­tution, the students proposed that the Women's Center would be the place for such discussion. They wanted a place where stu­dents could discuss and educate themselves on sexual assault, abortion, health concerns, AIDS, and other hot topics. 
Along with providing a safe environment, they also wanted the Women's Center to stand as a place for community outreach. They wanted to be able to work with along with other organiza­tions in the community. Their vision reached fulfillment when in March of 1992, the Women's Center received a room in the basement of LeMans Hall. 
Upon their graduation, Lynch and Jurgenson set up an adviso­ry board to facilitate the progress of the center. So in the 1992-1993 academic year the center opened with the mission to provide programming, events and lectures for women of Saint Mary's. The board, then consist­ing of two students, one faculty representative, a residential life representative, and an adminis­tration representative pushed through the academic year planning events to draw all women of the campus. 
That first year the Women's Center sponsored panel discus­sions, film series and sexual assault awareness events ­events the boq.rd hoped would reach, uncover, and discuss issues facing women on cam­pus. 
"They wanted to connect with the Saint Mary's community as a whole," said Phyllis Kaminski, professor of Religious Studies and coordinator of Women's Studies at Saint Mary's. 
Since then, not much planning comes out of that little room nor do students from all groups of campus use the space. Over the years the Women's Center has even developed a stigma -a stigma that goes contrary to everything Lynch and Jurgenson envisioned in their proposal. 
"It is unfair that it has gotten the stigma because the Women's Center could be so much more," said Jami Newcomb, a member of the Feminist Collective. 
The stigma led to only gender­specific groups using the space -something its organizers wanted to avoid. 
"The only groups using the space were CARE [Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination] and Feminist Collective and other students didn't know it was for any other group," said Emily Welsh, a freshman mem­ber of the Women's Resource 
MARY AIMONOVITCH/The Observer 

Among the additions in the new Women's Center Is a mural. The Center re-opens today at 5 
p.m. in the basement of Le Mans. 
Center Community Leadership Team [CoLTJ. 
In the seven years the room has been available, many stu­dents have thought of the women's center as a space only for specific organizations. No longer do people see the center speaking to the issues of all women, but rather speaking to the issues of lesbian, feminist, and radical students on campus. Although the room does house meetings of the Feminist Collective and Peacemakers, those that use the room see the room representing more than just a stigma that may or may not be valid. 
In the center's re-opening today, those students with a vested interest in its future hope the "more" that the center has to offer will get other students involved. They hope that with a fresh coat of paint. revived fur­niture and a little dusting, other students will see that the Women's Center is open to all women from every part of cam­pus life. 
A sign of that mission will be represented in a painted mural 
of two goddesses in the  re­ 
opened Center.  
"The  remodeling  will  be  

empowering with a mural paint­ed with different shades of bod­ies. It will provide a safe and empowering space for women on campus," said Marueen Capillo, a member of Peacemakers. 
The Center in the past has served as the launchpad for such events as Take Back the Night, Take Back the Woods, and Week without Violence ­all events that strive to unite not only the Saint Mary's communi­ty. but also unite with other community women organiza­tions such as the YWCA. said Susan Alexander, a former coor­dinator for the Women's Center. 
However some students still see strides that need to be taken to fully make Lynch and Jurgenson's vision a reality. Student groups, like the newly formed CoLT not only want to make the space more viable for students but also more educa­tional. They want to provide stu­dents with updated information in the form of health pamphlets on everything from AIDS to birth control, Welsh said. 
Organizers hope the re-open­ing will stand as a way to open dialogue between other organi­zations such as Multicultural Affairs, Health Services, and other student groups, and facili­tate a wider campus dialogue, said Welsh. 
"I hope to it will be able to work hand in hand with other organizations to bring in speak­ers on women's issues." said Welsh. 

Friday Saturday 12:30 -10 pm 10am-6pm 
12:30 pm 9:00 am Priscilla Hayner, Open Talk and Discussion Program Director From Desk Study to International Center for Field Work: 
Transitional Justice A Global Peace Researcher in Local Conflicts 
1:30 pm 
Team Building u I Exercises 

I 10am-6pm
"Tools for Activities" 
• 
udent Panels 
hild Soldiers

6:30 pm 
Peace Puzzle

Keynote Address 
The Price of Peace
Priscilla Hayner 
Family, Gender, Conflict and PeaceStepping Out ofthe Box: 
Drama

Paving One's Own Path as 
Dance and Photography
an Independent Writer 
Religions and Peace 

Issues in Social Justice in the U.S.
9:00 pm 
Borderlines

LarenSaur, ColgateUniversity 
Education for Peace
South Africa 

Gangs, Violence,
Two Cultural Productions -One Message 
and Peace in the U.S. 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, March 30, 2001 
New 
continued from page 1 
ers to be connected. But for Moscona and Jorrissen, the mov­ing process is a bigger task. They will not simply carry boxes across a room, but up the stairs and down the hallway, too. Moscona and J orrissen will add a new dynamic to the office of the presi­dent. 
"I bring a totally new perspec­tive to the administration," Jorrissen, the current junior class president, said. "I hope to bring a high level of energy and enthusi­asm into the office." 
Moscona realizes his role as vice president will often mean doing the jobs Norton and Jorrissen cannot do because of time commitments. 
"I think that I am unique in the fact that I am very willing to do the grunt work that comes with any vice presidential role, but I am also very devoted to being an effective leader of the senate," Moscano said. 
Although people claim the new administration will not change from the previous one, Moscona and Jorrissen reject that criticism clearing depicting new character­istics they bring to the office. 
"Our goal is to build on what the previous administration has done this year," Jorrissen said. "But we want to look at what they did, expand on that and do every­thing bigger." 
Jorrissen said he is confident that the new administration will be ready to take over come April 1. 
"Jay has been great through 

You don't have to let high 
blood pressure take you by 
surprise. Ask your doctor 
to check it and help you 
keep it in check to reduce 
your risk of heart attack 
and stroke. Learn more at 
www.americanheart.org or 
call 1-800-AHA-USA1. 
Amencan eart
. H 
o"­
Association. 
Fighting Heart Disease and Stroke 
This space provided as a public service. C 1999, American Heart Association 

transition. He is obviously well experienced and knowledgeable," Jorrissen said. "He has imparted his veritable cornucopia of knowl­edge onto me. 
Something Borrowed 
Because O'Donogue's adminis­tration has been so successful, accomplishing nearly every goal they set, Norton may have a tough act to follow. However, O'Donoghue is quick to point out that Norton was an essential component of the current admin­istration. 
"Brooke has been such an inte­gral part of the office." O'Donogue said. "Her administra­tion can take all the lessons we've learned as we did it for the first time and build a better adminis­tration." 
Norton realizes the high expec­tations created by O'Donoghue are also coupled with the fact she is the first female student body president. But Norton isn't shying away from the challenge. 
"Odie served the students of Notre Dame incredibly well this year," she said. "With a year of experience, I hope that I will be able to hit the ground running even faster than Odie did. And the office occupied by the student body president will finally have a woman's touch." 
Norton plans to continue many programs started by the current administration, but wants to work more closely with the stu­dent body. 
"We intend to increase commu­nication with the student body, and work with other campus groups and organizations in order to take more of an active role in diversity affairs. gender issues, and social concerns on campus," Norton said. 
Something Blue 
Because O'Donoghue was going out of town for the weekend on Thursday, he knew he had to pass his office key to Norton on Wednesday night. The staff had been gone for hours, the clock read midnight, but both O'Donoghue and Norton remained in the student govern­ment office. 
They had worked together like this for countless hours, long into the night, over the past year. During most of those late hours both longed to be sleeping in Walsh or Keough. But this night was different. 
Norton was in no rush to leave the office during this final night she was able to observe O'Donoghue and recall the lessons he taught her. 
"From a distance, one can tell Odie is knowledgeable and com­mitted to his job," Norton said. "But on a personal level he really does what his heart believes and what is best for Notre Dame." 
O'Donoghue called Norton into the president's office, swore her in and handed Norton the small key to the office, which she has now placed on a blue key chain. 
The calm and collected O'Donoghue seemed a bit emo­tional to Norton, and while he is normally a man of many words, he offered her only one final piece of advice. 
"He told me, 'Many people talk about the dignity of the office, and that is part of your job,"' Norton said. '"But more impor­tantly, your job is to love each and every student at Notre Dame no matter what."' 
Attention 
United Liino Passengers 
Important Schedule Changes Effective April 1, 2001 
All departure and arrival times on our schedule for Elkhart, Mishawaka, Notre Dame, and South Bend will shift to one hour earlier than previously noted on our winter schedule. 
This is to accomidate the time change in Chicago, IL. 
For further information or schedule, contact United Limo at: 
800-833-5555 www.busville.com 219-67 4-7000 
ALL NOTRE DAME & SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS & FACULTY CAN SAVE MONEY BY PURCHASING UNITED LIMO TICKETS AT ANTHONY TRAVEL. 
UNITED LIMO 
Your dependable connection to O'Hare & Midway 

Laetare 
continued from page 1 
mark of distinction among Catholics, was awarded to Higgins for his work as a scholar, activist and labor 
priest within the Catholic Church of America. He will receive the medal on May 

20th dur­
Higgins

ing the 
University's 156th Commencement proceed­ings. 
"The long career of George Higgins shows how an ardent embrace of Catholic doctrine intensifies the hunger and thirst for jus­tice," said University President Father Edward Malloy. "We want to honor him for following Jesus, a carpenter's son, and heeding a vocation to serve his Lord retired to teach theology at Catholic University. 
Organized labor has been Higgins passion throughout his career. Whether partic­ipating in rallies or speaking at international meetings, he became a leading advocate of organized labor. 
"All my life, I've been in 
the field," he said. 
His list of honors has been 
merely lengthened as the 
recent recipient of the 
Laetare Medal. He was 
awarded an honorary 
degree from Notre Dame. 
which was followed by a 
labor studies center named 
in his honor in 1993. 
He published a book enti­tled "Organized Labor and the Church: Reflections of a Labor Priest" and received the Presidential Medal of Freedom. 
The Laetare Medal, con­ceived in 1883 by University professor James Edwards with approval from then University president Father Edward Sorin, was estab­lished as an annual award for Catholics "whose genius has ennobled the arts and sciences, illustrated the 
ideals of 
t h e

in the work­"The long career of 
Church.

ers of the 
George Higgins shows 
a n d

world." 
how an ardent embrace enriched
After being 
the her­

ordained a ofCatholic doctrine 
itage of

priest in intensifies the hunger 
humani­

1940, Higgins 
and thirst for justice." ty."
completed 
T h e

graduate 
recipient

studies at The Father Edward Malloy 
of the

Catholic 
University president 
Laetare

University of America. He successfully pursued a mas­ter's degree in economics, and received a doctoral degree in political science from Catholic University. 
Higgins' career began by serving the social action staff of the National Catholic Welfare Conference (now the United 'States Catholic Conference). where he was appointed director in 1954. In 1979, the National Conference of Catholic Bishops selected Higgins as the secretary for special con­cerns. He subsequently 
Medal, 
chosen by a committee headed by the University president, is announcpd in ct>lebration of Laetare Sundav, the fourth Sunday in Lent. "Laetare," which is Latin for "rejoice," marks the upcoming Easter celebration. 
Higgins continues to exem­plify the values of the Catholic Church. He will be the 123rd individual to bear the medal that adorns the Latin phrase, 'Magna est veritas et prevalebit' ­'Truth is mighty, and it shall prevail.' 
...~·::·::·:·:·::·:·:·:¥~·, /.'.'.'.. ,.:: ···1::

','.O /}/,.;y.:{.:fvl«t:f~:•:,:;::::;.··:···:·::•:;·:: :: .:::~:-: :~: ::· ~:: :~ :,:::-';'::•· ·:~::::;:::,::::::;.•::::.... 
x.~ 

...;:;. ll~tHlldllr..·· ... 'llrf... l~f \· ·•:•:•:• :-:•:• :..·...·../..•\./''••..........;........;.•:.•• 
••..!•••::, .... 

)):•,•,•,./•,.X•,•,•/'•·''). .,,...,:..•,•,,..•,•~.Y,,'.~'. ·iMt,....:~w...·.w,•:i.............,:.,,.,.:i:,:,:·:w.-,:•,::•:•,•,.:,.,•,.) 
........ 

, , , * \' n\ 1,•, •,, I,', ,•,•,""l,•, y'•')t,',',',•••••"f.l'.•~••• h'.-,1 •'•(o"(,'.'.','e,: ,', ,\ ll,•,•,•, u't,•, .... •,•,~,•,•,·• ,·,·;,·.• V,',',','l,',' ','l.',' •,•• •,-.. 
tfa@tltii*!l~!~iM@lt~MmMiltfl§i~lM8e,Sfei·1~fifiti~•. 
]m:~l~IIil{l:{~Jjl~jifW~!l~l-~!~ii1t:a!iiri:A(i;tL ,·
j]!~~];1)ill¦~¦llli~,,I1;;;:ll:IIIJ'.\it.i.
··:::•,.·,...c~·i....1:n···•\·•···1« ,.,,....,:::-m:···e-ii'•...................................·.:e.··•:•.M.....,. 
··'b•·.·•

M@w~~d~l~iiGB~~~:.'::._· :.·;·· ·~u;i§ii.iteatm:11\ilQ..r • ·lge,.
ii:!$:~:::.~1:~~::*~~t~:;:;~Jt-%\i~~ '•,:i~t~::/:~.~:;:;:;:;:::;:;;~:~),:;:::m~~.:~t:::::::::::i:~. ,:•:•:•.:;::::~:~:t::::~~:: 
.............. .'.. .\ . ·\\I ·v·.......\.n ·,•,•·.. .,.......... .·•.•.•, ...................,•••,•,•,•,··•·•· .,....,...•,.........,.,.,','t"i',','•·.•·•::"i I . \~',Y.f,';Y.':X•':!, 
,,),.).,
"i'l.','/V,' 
.~*w ·ift 
l~W .,,•,,..2*f/ ·\i:l!i:l::l~~i :;tmt:: 
......:it••.•,••.•,'· 
.. M-.s1·.: .. · 
{;r4.:;:;:;,v:·f
\•:~.t:::~ ~ :. '. . . I 


ATION 
Friday, March 30, 200 I COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Somali leader to free workers: A 
top Somali faction leader on Thursday promised to release four U .N. workers once his men are granted safe passage to escort them to the airport. Hussein Aideed, chair­man of a loose alliance of faction leaders opposed to the new government in Somalia, said a convoy carrying 11 international aid workers on Tuesday came under attack because the local militia was not informed that they would be in the area. 
Alleged Mafia leader held in Canada: Gaetano Amodeo, an alleged Sicilian Mafia leader wanted in two 1992 killings in Italy will remain in detention until a deportation hearing next month, a Canadian immigration judge ruled Thursday. He is a native of Catolica Eraclea in Sicily. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Rep. Sisisky dies at 73: Rep. Norman Sisisky, a conservative Democrat who was a strong advocate for defense spending during nine terms in Congress, died Thursday. He was 7 3. Sisisky. a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, died at his home in Petersburg two days after he was released from a hospital following lung cancer surgery, his office said. Sisisky made a fortune as a soft drink bottler in Petersburg and was elected to the House in 1982 after eight years in Virginia's House of Delegates. 
House approves marriage tax cut: 
The House voted overwhelmingly Thursday to cut income taxes for most married cou­ples and to gradually double the $500-per­child tax credit. endorsing two major pieces of President Bush's $1.6 trillion tax relief plan. The measure passed 282-144, which included 64 Democrats in favor. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Mother charged in shelter death: A 
South Bend mother of a 2-year-old boy found dead at a homeless shelter in January was charged Thursday with murder. Alkeia Blackmon, 20, was ordered held without bond. She is accused of killing her son. Christopher Blackmon, who stopped breath­ing a few minutes after they went to their room at the shelter following dinner on Jan. 
14. The death in January has resulted in new questions concerning the death of another son last year in Michigan City. 
Market Watch March 29 
Dow 
9,799.06 +13.71 
Jones 


Composite Same: 
Volume: 211 NIA 
AMEX: 861.45 -3.36 NASDAQ: 1,820.57 -33.56 NYSE: 588.68 -1.38 S&P 500: 1,147.95 -5.34 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -3.17 -0.50 15.25 NASDAQ 100 INDX (QQQ) -1.89 -0.75 38.95 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) -7.26 -1.15 14. 70 INTEL CORP (INTC) -1.40 -0.38 26.56 AGERE SYSTEMS-A (AGRA) +0.17 +0.01 6.03 
YUGOSLAVIA 

TV producer killed in border attack 
other civilian also died; U.N. police because of sustained fire. 
Associated Pre.u 

said 16 other people were wounded "We are all grief-stricken at this 
KRIVENIK, Yugoslavia in the assault. loss." said Louis D. Boccardi, presi­
An Associated Press Television Sylejman "Suki" Kllokoqi, an APTN dent and CEO of The Associated News producer was killed in Kosovo cameraman who had left the car Press. "Kerem's courage and devo­on Thursday as he arrived to cover moments before it was struck. was tion to gathering the story reached the deployment of NATO-led peace­uninjured. beyond any words we can say. We keepers monitoring fighting between A 1J.S. peacekeeper gave Lawton weep with his family and his Macedonian troops and ethnic first aid at the scene. He was then friends." Albanian rebels. taken by road, first to a local clinic British Foreign Secretary Robin 
Kerem Lawton, 30, a British and then to Camp Bondsteel. the U.S. Cook said he was "deeply saddened" national, died of shrapnel wounds he military base in Kosovo, where he by Lawton's death, adding, "My suffered when a mortar shell hit his was pronounced dead on arrival with thoughts are with the family." vehicle in the village of Krivenik, multiple head wounds. U.S. Capt. A statement by the U.S. command about three-quarters of a mile inside Alayne Cramer said the medics were described the projectiles used in the the Kosovo border. NATO said one unable to fly him out of the area attack as mortars. 
DENMARK 
! ' "i;;,,. 


AFP Photo 

An oil tanker with a hole on the starboard side remains afloat after it collided with a cypriotic freightship in the 
Baltic Sea between Germany and Denmark. 
Tanker, ship collide in Baltic Sea 
sugar freighter "Tern" miles per hour broke the der of the Danish vessel
Associated Press 

remained afloat after the spilled oil into dozens of that led the cleanup, told 
COPENHAGEN crash late Wednesday in slicks that were pushed Denmark's TV2 channel. 
An oil tanker collided international waters about toward the Danish islands One of the larger slicks with a freighter in the 15 miles northwest of the of Falster and Moen south was about 500 feet long Baltic Sea, spilling about German coastal town of of Zealand, the island and 100 feet wide, while 550,000 gallons of oil that Darsser Ort. Its cause of where the capital, some of the smaller ones authorities said was drift­the collision was not Copenhagen, is located. were about 110 square ing toward Denmark on immediately clear. and no "We will do all what we feet in area. authorities Thursday, with small slicks injuries were reported. can to avoid a disaster," said. reaching shore. The tanker, not fully Danish Environment Four Danish ships with 
The collision ripped a loaded, had been Minister Svend Auken told oil containment equipment wide gash in the side of anchored, and the remain­reporters. were trying to contain the the double-hulled tanker. ing oil from its damaged The high winds and slicks. aided by German which was carrying nearly compartment was pumped rough seas hindered and Swedish coast guard 
9.7 million gallons of oil. into undamaged parts of cleanup efforts. vessels. but the leak was stemmed the ship. The freighter left "The problem is that the The Danish Emergency in time to keep most of it the site on its own power waves and the winds make Management Agency put inside. and later reached the east­it impossible for us to use floating barriers in the sea 
Both the Marshall ern German port of our tools" to scoop and near the shore to try to islands-registered "Baltic Rostock. contain the oil, said Frank keep oil from reaching Carrier" and the Cypriot Winds as strong as 45 Kiel Rasmussen, comman-rocky beaches. 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, March 30, 200 I 
Mori weaves culture and classics in writing 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
News Writer 
Detailing her educational training and the discovery of the role her homeland could play in her writing, Asian­American author and poet Kyoko 
M o r i explained her emer­gence as an Asian­American writer Thursday. Mori. a 

Mori
native of K ob e , Japan, settled in the United States at the age of 16 in Wisconsin. In a Japaneese culture where Mori felt many women are pressured to marry, she wanted to pur­sue a writing career. She left her homeland because "there was nothing for me to do there," she told the audi­ence in Carroll Auditorium. 
"I wanted to study creative writing. In Japan, people don't go to school to learn to write -I don't know how people become writers. I don't think I could have learned [how to write] on my own." 
Mori discovered her love of writing in high school, the beginning of an educational process that would lead her to discover she could incor• porate her homeland in her memoirs. poems and novels. It was in college where she first began to become aware of the need for a strong set­ting in her work. she said. 
"When I went to college, I started writing seriously," Mori said. "I wrote about people l thought I knew. girls on campus who were going through a crisis. The setting wasn't very strong. It could have been any college campus, and the young women I wrote about could have been any young women." 
But recently emigrated from Japan, Mori was not yet ready to incorporate her memories of Japan into her writing. Instead, she focused writing about her present experiences in the United States, and "didn't really talk about the past,,. she said. 
It. was the desire to write about her grandmother, however, which catapulted Mori to take a more intro­spective approach to her writing and draw upon more personal experience. Interested in knowing what life was like for her grand­mother, Mori began to write a poem about her grand­mother, in which she tried to imagine what her life was like, she said. 
That poem became the springboard for a series of writings about her grand­mother. and subsequently; the inclusion of Japan in her work. 
"Somehow, that wasn't 
P'<,e,<;;'l'cle-!:'he. 
06.,e-t--ve-'t.-. 

enough. It was just a snap­shot -I wanted to write as story," Mori said. "I didn't know a lot about my culture that I came from, but I knew what my grandmother did every morning," Mori said. 
Mori withheld from includ­ing her culture in her writ­ing for much of her educa­tional career, however, due to a lack of minority writers in the curriculum. Exposed to classics such as Hemmingway and Faulkner in the canon while earning undergraduate and graduate degrees, Mori supplemented her education by exploring work done as minority writ­ers on her own. 
"Everyone should read them -Hemmingway and Faulkner," she said. "But you come to a point where it is good to supplement that education, particularly if you are an Asian-American writer." 
It took seeing examples by other minority writers for her to understand she could include her culture in her work, Mori said -despite the knowledge of writing she gained from modern American literature. 
"It was only in my grad school years that I started to feel I had permission to write that way," Mori said. " ... even _though I didn't read it in the Norton Anthology of Literature." 
Currently a resident of Cambridge, Mass., Mori is the Briggs Copeland Lecturer in Creative Writing at Harvard University. She is the author of the New York Times best young children's book Shizuko's Daugther. She has written several col­lections of poetry and mem­oirs, including Polite Lies, A Dream of Water, Fallout, and her most recent book, Stonefield, True Arrow. 
Mori spoke at Saint Mary's as a part of Asian Pacific Island Heritage Month, sponsored by PAC. The last event of the month. a Mehndi tattoo demonstra­tion, will occur today in LeMans' Reignbeaux Lounge 
Students live migrants' suffering 
"I kept having to remind ers' direct employer. But Taco 
By ERIN LaRUFFA 
myself, 'OK, I'm in the middle Bell is a major buyer of toma­News Writer 
of the United States,"' said toes from the workers' actually 
Hodek. "Migrants don't have employer, 6 Ls Packing Co. 
Inspired by a spring break any benefits. They don't have Noon explained that compa­Center for Social Concerns any health care. They're not nies like Taco Bell hire middle­[CSC] seminar. a group of protected by any of the nation-men that exploit workers, and 
Notre Dame students held a al labor protests on a teach-in Thursday night to laws." national level raise awareness about the Seminar "We're asking you to be arc intended plight of migrant farm workers participant, to force Taco
intelligent consumers ... 
in the United States. junior Bell to encour­
Without the 
Over spring break, these 16 Joanna age those mid­Notre Dame students spent a Garcia, said undocumentary workers, dlemen to pay week in Florida on the CSC's that these workers more.
we wouldn 't have the 
Migrant Experiences Seminar workers are "We don't
tomatoes. ,.
in lmmokalee, Fla. often not want anyone 
As part of the seminar expe­able to afford to think Taco rience, the group picked to feed them­Chris Rupar Bell is evil ... oranges along with farm work­selves off of It's more that
sophomore
ers. work that ..Migrants line up around five helps feed in the morning," said junior the rest of the country. Julie Hodek, who attended the The teach-in was just the seminar. She added that work­beginning, however, for ers do not know if they will group's action back at Notre actually be able to get work Dame. The group is planning each day. to protest a local Taco Bell on "We experienced that too -April 8. 
not knowing if we would get Other groups around the work or not," she said. country, particularly in the Students also learned that south, have already begun the work protesting Taco was diffi­Bell chains. cult and "We experienced that too Protest organiz­they pay e rs across the
-not knowing ifwe
was low, country are 
they said. would get work or not. ., appealing to peo­
"We only ple in their teens picked for and twenties
Julie Hodek 
half a day, because this
junior

and it was demographic very tir-represents a sig­ing," said Hodek. nificant part of Taco Bell's 
However. the Notre Dame market. students were much better off Protesters chose to target than the other workers. Taco Bell, even though the 
In fact, one seminar partici­company is not the farm work-pant, junior Brian Noon, referred to the migrant farm workers as "indentured ser­vants." 
"We had the luxury of stop­ping for water," said Hodek, who added that typical work­ers rarely take breaks because part of the wages are based on how many bushels they pick. 
After four hours of picking oranges, all 16 students added their wages together. Combined, they had earned only $54. 
"That just tells you how little the pay is for how hard you work," Hodek said. 
Seminar participants also realized how poor overall liv­ing conditions were. 
from 
11 a.m. to 3 p.m. 
Saint Mary's College O'Laughlin Auditorium
. -4 Blocks From· Campus 
Sunday, April 1 • 7:30 p.m. 
Please join us in support of the Food Bank of Northern Indiana by bringing a donation of
ONLY A FEW LEFT -SECURE 
canned food to the performance. There will be collection baskets at the entrances. 
YOUR APARTMENT TODAY. 
"The Best Value In Off Campus Living': 
a For ticket information contact the 2 84-46 2 6 
.......,., Saint Mary's Box Office at 
Professionally Managed by Real Estate Management Corp. 
234-9923 
-Large. 2.--Bedroom floorplan .. Student Leases Available 
a lot of [corpo­
rations] don't really see how workers are exploited," he said. 
"You show up at the dining hall, and there are all these tomatoes," said sophomore Chris Rupar, who also partic­ipated in the seminar. "We're asking you to be intelligent consumers ... \Vithout the undocumented workers, we wouldn't have the tomatoes." 
Such undocumented workers are a significant part of U.S. food production, Rupar added. 
For the. seminar participants, their experience reinforced their understanding of how migrant workers, many living as undocumented immigrants in the U.S., have little political power. And for that reason, students believe it is important to protest Taco Bell. 
"We're the people with the political power, with the voice to speak," said Hodek. 





hiday, March 30, 2001 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Sanford shares local fears in Guatemala 
By GEOFF BRODIE News Wricer 
Reading a section from her current project entitled "The Grey Zone of Justice," Victoria Sanford of the Kellog Institute and the department of anthro­pology told of the military stran­glehold that has been choking the life out of the ethnic Mayan communities of Guatemala for many years Thursday after­noon. 
As military bases began to spring up throughout the nation. paramilitary Civil Patrols called "Patrullas de Autodefensa Civil" [PAC] were established. The Civil Patrols is an institu­tion that was 
installed by ..Social peace has 
human rights

the military 
priority over justice.,, activists 
in the early believed that 
l 980's in 
this was mean­

order to General Garcia 
ingless because maintain leader of military forces in those who gavecontrol over 
Guatemala the orders were 
the rural 
areas as a 
counter-insurgency measure. 
Civilians "voluntarily" have to spend several days a month patrolling their village. Their arms are supplied by the mili­tary. These Civil Patrols wreaked unspeakable havoc and committed horrible atroci­ties across the country. Sanford said. 
One such event was the Rio Negro Massacre. On March 13, 1982, 80 women and 100 chil­dren were ordered to march up a mountain and were brutally murdered. 
Upon later exhumation of the gravesite, three of the victims were found to have been preg­nant and many had been raped. Others had suffered gun shot wounds, head trauma, and machete wounds. 
This was just one example of the horrors committed by the Civil Patrols and their military officials. According to Sanford, the military was responsible for 93 percent of all human rights violations in Guatemala, includ­ing the destroying of 626 towns and the displacement of 1,500.000 people. 
According many human rights leaders, those responsible for 
cinema@thesnite 
Rio Negro and other massacres sit unscathed in their untouch­able government positions. Many witnesses or survivors were too afraid to testify against those responsible because of death threats. Even judges cho­sen to hear the case against those officials who were named fled the country in fear of losing their lives as well. It began to seem that justice would never be served. But that was exactly the goal of the military and Civil Patrols. 
"Social peace has priority over justice," said General Garcia, leader of military forces in Guatemala. 
Finally in 1999. three military officials were found guilty of the 
Rio Negro mas­
sacre. Many 
not held 

responsible. Sanford's perspective is much different. 
In her 24 months of fieldwork in Guatemala from 1994-1999, Sanford was able to get the views of everyone involved, from peasants to prosecutors. She believes in what she calls "lateral impurity," those most responsible were those on a local level, because they had the most to gain. 
"Local leaders are the ones who try to stop social changes in the community," said Sanford. 
Those in charge of patrolling their own town received more benefits from ratting out their neighbor than a general resid­ing at a military base far away. The peasants feared their local military commissioners much more than those on a national level. 
"Military commissioners were usually the town butcher, because they were the ones who stole the cattle," said Sanford. 
The struggle in Guatemala is one that is ongoing. And like most major problems, especially with human rights, change is going to have to come from the bottom on up. 
Committee honors black scholars 
Special to the Observer 
The Black Alumni of Notre Dame scholarship committee proudly names juniors Anthony Greg Barber, Jr. of Amherst, VA and Enjuelle Trebreh Livingston of Houston, TX, Frazier as this year's ThompsonFrazier 
Scholars

Thompson Scholars, for Award excellence in Recipients
academics 
and service to the . Anthony GregAfrican 
A m e r i c a n Barber, Jr. and ND corn-. Enjuelle m u n i t i e s . Trebreh 
Both will receive $2,500 towards their student accounts in their senior year. 
Anthony Barber, a resident of Knott Hall and a finance major in the Mendoza College of Business, has achieved Dean's List honors every semester. After completing his major in finance, Anthony plans to pursue a career in 
Opera presents Handel's "Xerxes" 
Special to the Observer 
The University of Notre Dame Opera will present Handel's "Xerxes" in two perfor­mances Friday and Saturday (March 30 and 
31) at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall on cam­pus. 
Admission for the concert is $6 for reserved seating and $3 for senior citizens and stu­dents. Tickets are available at the Lafortune Student Center box office or by calling [2191 631-8128. 
Founded in 1991, the Notre Dame Opera is comprised of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College students and is directed by Marc 
NEWS BRIEFS 
Nader to speak Sat. : Ralph Nader will 
speak at IUSB at 7 p.m. His talk, ..Everyone .. Counts: Representing the Under•Represented is free and open to the public. 
Verzatt. Recently appointed coartistic director of the Lake George Opera Festival in Saratoga Springs, N.Y., Verzatt studied drama at Rutgers University and has directed opera, operetta and musical theater throughout the Untied States and Europe. 
Conductor John Apeitos is a native of Australia and a graduate of Melbourne University with bachelor's degree in m_usic. He is the resident conductor of the Nat10nal Radio Symphony of Greece and has 1:er­formed internationally as a conductor, piano accompanist and violinist. This marks the seventh year he has been invited to Notre Dame as associate professor and guest con­ductor. 
Trinity School Fine Arts Day: The events will be at the Hammes Bookstore Sat. March 31. At 2:00 pm Caitlin Allen, ND stu­dent, will perform Irish dance and at 8:00 pm Nick Holavaty, ND student, John-Thomas 
IT'S ONLY A 
You don~ nave to ~t ~ 

SILENT KILLER 
blooo pressure take you by 

TO THOSE 
SUiprise. M: ~our ooctor 

WHO REFUSE 
to check naM' ~e~ ,w

TO LISTEN, 
keep Hin check !o reduce 
yoor risK ~ !wart attack · 
aro stroke. Learn roore at 
American Heart ,, Alsociation. 

investment banking. 
Eventually, he plans to earn an MBA and a PhD, en route to becoming a professor. Barber has also found time to excel in the area of sociology. He and a research colleague submitted a proposal and received a grant as part of an undergrad­uate research competition and the paper which investigates media coverage of race riots -has been accepted for pre­
sentation  at  the  Midwest  
Sociological  Society  
Conference.  

Currently studying abroad in London, Anthony is the co­founder of First-Class Steppers of Notre Dame, and a member of the League of Black Business Students, Korean Student Association, ND Student International Business Council, and Finance Club. 
Enjuelle Livingston, of Walsh Hall and the Mendoza College of Business, will earn a degree in finance and a supplemen­tary major in sociology. 
This Dean's List student and Sankofa Scholar plans for a career in financial consulting. Eventually, she plans to earn an MBA. become a certified financial planner, and estab­lish her own firm to help empower others. She recently received distinction as the 2000-2001 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Richard B. Fisher Scholar. Livingston, named the 1998 Freshman of the Year at the ND NAACP Image Awards. has served as co-pres­ident of the League of Black Business Students and Tour Coordinator for the Voices of Faith Gospel Choir. Enjuelle has also held leadership or service roles for SARG [Student Alumni Relations Group], Campus Ministry, Upward Bound, and the First Year of Studies, among others. 
The late Frazier Thompson '47 began the legacy of African American academic excellence at ND, as a pre-med student, track athlete, and Notre Dame's first African American graduate. Since 1997. nearly $150,000 has been raised in his memory to support Frazier Thompson awards, primarily through contributions of African American Notre Dame alumni. 
Fri. & Sat. 7:30 p.m. and 9:45 p.m. 
presented by ND Film, Television, and Theatre www.nd.edu/-ftt 
tint mn(\•"a colhye:p.t,..)I

•·B;·;&1+:Hil:.;= ' . 
page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, March 30, 2001 

''Globalization and Free Trade'' 

·-Informative speakers from across the country 
-Open to all majors! · 
. 

Saturday, March 31 
12:00 PM MCOB Jordan Auditorium 
Friday> March 30, 2001 page 9
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
Soft money ban nears Senate pass 
At least 17 people die in Colo. plane crash 
Eyewitnesses saw the air­
Associated Press 

plane go down northwest of 
ASPEN, Colo. the Sardy Field airport shortly 
A private airplane crashed after 7 p.m. into a hillside Thursday at an The airplane just missed airport in this ski resort town, landing on a runway. where killing at least 17 people, debris was scattered, said authorities said. Madeleine Osberger, who was 
Seventeen bodies were driving near the airport. She recovered after the crash. said she saw the plane in what said Joe DiSalvo, a spokesman appeared to be its final for the Pitkin a p pro a ch C o u n t y before . it S h e r i ff· s I WYO, { 0 · 1t<tm crashed. Office. A I -! ~too~ "Maybe flight plan i j NEU two min­
fih~1[i:}:nJ r-ri~sd!"Id
i -~~-­18 people t A~~·•• f s a w 
aboard, he :x: t "-~ tkJ.N flames," said. .:!:. I . · · s a i d 
-COLORADO !
The ch a r-l -· 1 i Osberger.~;:d h~~~: r···~·r--....... -*~·· L.~~: N!ti:n a1 from Los L...~~..·-~··~·-'-·4E_,_v_M_E_x:_,oo_·_·._,;.i_T_f_X_M_s.,., We at her Angeles ~~URCf.F:S..W AP Service International reported airport, said light snow Allen Kenitzer, a Federal and mist in the Aspen area Aviation Administration Thursday night. spokesman in Seattle. He said The plane was registered to he did not know whether any Airborne Charter Inc. at distress calls were made, or Burbank, Calif., said Bruce the history of the specific Nelson, an FAA operations plane. officer in Los Angeles. 
Wreckage was strewn over In Washington, a spokesman about 100 yards: Two passen-for the National gers were still strapped to Transportation Safety Board, their seats when they landed Ted Lopatkiewicz, said on the highway. and one man Thursday night the agency was sprawled on a hillside. would investigate. 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The Senate swept away the last major obstacle Thursday to passage of campaign finance legislation as Sen. John McCain and his allies fended off a fresh attack on the bill's centerpiece, a ban on big-dollar donations to the political parties. 
The vote was 57-43 to pre­serve the so-called soft money ban even if the Supreme Court rules that other key provisions of the legislation are unconsti­tutional. 
"This bill is going to pass ... and if I were a betting man I'd bet it's going to be signed into law." said Sen. Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., the Senate's most outspoken foe of the measure designed to curtail the role of big money in politics. 
At the White House, President Bush declined to answer directly when asked whether he would approve the bill. Instead, he told reporters he would sign any legislation that "improves the system" now in place. 
The vote on the issue of con­stitutionality and the Supreme Court marked the latest in a nearly unbroken string of vic­tories for a bipartisan coali­tion that has held together throughout nearly two weeks of turbulent debate. 
"This is where the Senate takes a stand," said Sen. Russell Feingold. D-Wis.. shortly before the vote. "This is the test." Forty-four Democrats and 13 Republicans rejected a pro­posal to direct the high court to lump three main provisions together when ruling on the bill's constitutionality. Among them were some Democrats who had previously spoken on the other side of the issue, and lawmakers involved in the bill said Democratic leader Tom Daschle of South Dakota, played a key role in lining up votes. 
"I believe that we've gone over the last hurdle, but I just don't know," McCain, R-Ariz.. said a short while after the vote, and a few hours later came the official announce­ment that he was correct. 
After making a stab at fin­ishing the measure on Thursday night, the Senate agreed to take the final vote on Monday. 
McConnell coupled his con­cession with an ex-president's library fund. 
In addition, McCain made the issue the centerpiece of a surprisingly strong White House bid in 2000, and Democrats picked up several Senate seats last fall, adding to the reservoir of support. 
The main features of the bill would ban so-called soft money, the unlimited, loosely regulated donations that now flow to political parties ­$480 million in the last two years alone. The bill also would restrict late campaign broadcast advertising by out­side groups as well as the par­ties that support or attack candidates but escape regula­
tion because 
they stop 

announce­short of
"J believe that we've gone 
ment that explicitly
over the last hurdle, but I 
he would advocating join in a just don't know.·· anyone's lawsuit defeat or challenging election.
John McCain
the bill's The third 
constitu­Republican Senator from Arizona main provi­
tionality. He added that passage would mark a "stunningly stu­pid" act that would disadvan­tage political parties and their candidates, while strengthen­ing the hand of well-heeled, outside interest groups. 
Previous attempts to push campaign finance legislation through the Senate have per­ished as the result of Republican filibusters. 
But public outrage over the current system has slowly increased as the result of scandals in recent years. After President Clinton's re-election campaign in 1996, Congress held hearings over the coffees the president held at the White House for high-dollar donors, the fund-raising calls that Vice President Al Gore made from his office and alle­gations that the Chinese gov­ernment had covertly made huge campaign donations in an attempt to influence American elections. 
More recently, there has been much criticism of last­minute pardons issued by Clinton, one of which went to a billionaire fugitive, Marc Rich, whose ex-wife made six­figu re donations to Democratic causes and the 
sion would 
ease 27-year 
old restric­

tions on donations to candi­
dates and parties for use in 
direct campaign activities. 
The developments unfolded on the Senate floor as President Bush said he would sign any legislation that "improves the system" now in place. Bush refused consis­tently to embrace a soft money ban on individuals dur­ing his Republican presiden­tial primary battle with McCain last year, but he and the \Nhite House have issued increasingly strong signals in recent days that his misgiv­ings wouldn't rule out his sig­nature. 
Supporters of the measure already were pointing toward the battle for House passage. Democratic leader Dick Gephardt of Missouri, who has helped win approval for simi­lar bills in the past, expressed reservations during the day about increasing contribution limits to candidates. 
"Mr. Gephardt will have to, as others have, explain oppo­sition to legislation he previ­ously supported," McCain said pointedly at a news confer­ence. "And perhaps he can do that.t' 

,_. .., 
i 

HOME FOR RENT 
· . . •ft >'1;,l'li ?, 
2001-2002 SCHOOL YEAR 
DOMUS PROPERTIES HAS A10 BEDROOM HOUSE 
•4 BATH, 3 KITCHENS 
-BIG COMMON ROOM WITH BAR  
-VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS  
-NEAR OTHER STUDENT HOUSES  
-SECURITY SYSTEM  
-WASHER & DRYER  CONTACT KRAMER  
-HEAT INCLUDED IN RENT  (219} 298-9673 CELL PHONE  
(219) 234-2436 OFFICE  
(219) 674·2572 VOICE MAIL  

ALSO LEASING HOUSES FOR 2002-2003 SCHOOL YEAR 

page 10 The Observer . NEWS Friday, March 30, 2001 
GERMANY 

Nuclear waste trucks surprise protestors in storage sight 
Associated Press 
GORLEBEN,Germany 
Under heavy police guard, a 
nuclear waste shipment 
reached its final storage site 
Thursday after a tumultuous 
trip across Germany that ignit­
ed protests and revived the 
nation's anti-nuclear move­
ment. 
Dozens were injured and 
protest leaders said 1.500 anti­
nuclear demonstrators were 
detained as the train struggled 
from France through the 
heaths of northern Germany to 
the Gorleben dump. It was 
delayed for 18 hours at one 
point after demonstrators 
chained themselves to the 
tracks. 
More than 8,000 police kept protesters at bay as trucks hauled the six containers from a rail depot through a forest on the final 12-mile stretch of its journey. The last leg of the trip passed without major incident. 
Preceded by armored vehicles and water cannons, the convoy apparently caught 
spokesman

exhausted Gorleben nuclear storage facility March 29 In northern Germany. 
"We are here and nobody 
Holger
protesters off 

can overlook us. This was Winkelmann
guard by tak­ing a differ­ent route from the last transport in 1 9 9 7 . Helmeted police ran alongside. 
Germany's 
movement, now well into its second generation of protest, nonetheless celebrated the revival of their campaign to drive up the costs of nuclear waste transport and force a quicker closure of German nuclear plants. They also 
,,,­
:.:ff . 

;.,, , ·"A~. 
'1~•..'"•· ~­
.t~. -, 

·~ \~~~ AM to· 2:00,)'Miffid 4:00 PM to 9:00 PM +,.. . . , Su.NVAY~dMONDAY. 
\i~~~~i(~1elf{C\~tM~: & AMJ;)( acceet,~ 
,•.\f.· 

i.~f} ~:->~; ~--. ;-_"', 
115 V'ixie Way North ;South Bertd,lN, 46637 
. ,{2l9J--277..}23_9 
<~-:~~: .~ )'~· _, . ti~~ =J~~ ·:.~~~-:·_·.
~~·Ct ttt:Ros.ela.r:i:d 
,,.,~ 1~' $('-f~~ 
· ··· Bu.smess Hours: 
.;• ·>' .·. ~,..,,.., ' . 
TUESpftY th,:q.ugh SATURDAY 
not the end. this is just the beginning. " 
Wolfgang Ehmke protest leader 
anti-nuclear 


vowed to disrupt future ship­ments. 
"We are here and nobody can overlook us,"one of the protest leaders, Wolfgang Ehmke, told a windup rally. "This was not the end, this is just the beginning." 
The train set off Monday from near a French repro­cessing plant for spent nuclear fuel. Protests were sporadic along the 375-mile trip through Germany until the train reached the Gorleben area, where hun­dreds of militants clashed with police for two nights running. 
On Thursday morning, about 200 protesters jeered and shouted in the freezing rain as the trucks swung into the fenced-off dump com­pound. Some held up a yel­low banner reading "Stop atomic waste transports." 
Police were surprised that the last stretch went smooth­ly. ''Our forces were well­rested and did their job well, but the militants were tired 
AP Photo
out,"police 

Anti-nuclear activists watch as trucks carrying containers with spent nuclear fuel arrive at the 
short of Gorleben, were cleared before they could disrupt the convoy, police said. 
Area residents who have fought the dump for years voiced anger about the tough police methods, but also drew strength from the revival of said. 


A tractor blockade and an attempted sit-down protest by up to 300 demon­strators in Laase, just protests that were dormant since the last shipment. 

"The way they push this through has little to do with democracy,"said Brunhilde Butof, who had come from nearby Luenebuerg to join the protests. 
"Many people here define themselves through this experi­ence,"said housewife Gabi Blonski, 4 7, said of the local resistance. "I have three daughters, and they are grow­ing directly into this." 
On a muddy field in Dannenberg, site of the rail ter­minal where the train arrived 
The Faces Of Holy Cross_ 

New Candidates at Moreau Seminary 
Holy Cross: The Next Generation 
ANSWER ~ THECALL '<!Y 

www-.nd.edu/,.__vocation 
We..dnesday, young protesters packed blankets and sleeping bags into vans and cars before leaving town. Some were already looking ahead to the next time. 
"The fact that we held up the containers for so long will encourage those who thought, why bother?"said student Markus Bogalski from Bremen. 120 miles to the west. 
Two nuclear waste shipments a year to Gorleben are sched­uled under a German-French accord last January to resume transports after a three-year break, imposed by the previous German government because radioactive leakage was discov­ered on some containers. 
Germany sends spent nuclear fuel from its power plants to France for reprocessing under contracts that oblige it to take back the waste. 
German Interior Minister Otto Schily warned protesters who blocked the shipment or caused damage that they risked crimi­nal charges. 
But as activists met at a Gorleben restaurant to review their struggle after the trans­port. they shouted: "Encore. encore." 
Friday, March 30, 200 l The Observer . NEWS page 11 
Bush stance on Arafat helps Israel 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

President Bush's tough stand on terrorism and his demand that Yass1~r Arafat speak out "loud and clear" against it are likely to be 
taken by Israel as it vol!~ of confidence at a di ffi. cult time. 
Unable to stop sui­c i d f") 


bombers, Bush accused of foot-dragging in peacemaking, dfinounced as racist by the young Syrian President Bashar Assad, Israel looked to Washington for support. It got it from Bush on Thursday. 
The president was mildly critical of the force of Israel's retaliatory strike, at Arafat strongholds on the West Bank and in Gaza. but he did not dispute Israel's right of self­defense. He backed Prime Minister Ariel Sharon in call­ing for security talks with the Palestinian Authority and he adopted Sharon's thesis that Arafat can curb the attacks on Israel. 
"The signal I am sending to the Palestinians is stop the vio­lence," Bush said at a news conference. "I cannot make it any more clear. And I hope that Chairman Arafat hears it loud and clear." 
Secretary of State Colin Powell, at Bush's direction, quickly telephoned Arafat with the message. 
Earlier, at his West Bank headquarters in Ramallah, Arafat was defiant. 
"Our people will continue the J\l Aqsa uprising until we raise the Palestinian flag in every mosque and church and on the walls of Jerusalem,"he said after briefly inspecting his force's mobile homes that· were scorched by Israeli bom­bardment Wednesday. 
Now, however, the president of the United States has put him on the spot to pre-empt attacks by Palestinians, even those carried out by militant groups like Barnas that are not under Arafat's command. 
"He's a major figure who's listened to, particularly when he speaks directly to people in the region,"State Department 
spokesman Richard Boucher said. 
Assistant Secretary of State Edward Walker, testify­ing before the 
H o u s e 
International Affairs subcom­mittee that deals with the Middle East, said officials 
"i\1uch as this H o s n i Mubarak
administration would 
of Egypt

like to, it cannot avoid 
and King engagement in the Abdullah II of Jordan.
Arab-Israeli conflict." 
But Bush said he Robert Pelletreau had a 
fonner U.S. ambassador to Egypt "crowded 
have seen 

"absolutely no response"from Arafat to U.S. demands for an end to violence. 
"We're perplexed. The jury is out on Mr. Arafat," he said. "We're prepared to work with him if he is prepared to work with us. Right now, we don't see it." 
While Arafat has gained stature through the years in 
Europe as well as the Middle East in his struggle to wrest territory and part of Jerusalem from Israel, his need for U.S. support remains essential to his cause. 
But Bush not only made clear he is not about to push Sharon into land-for-peace talks the prime minister con­siders premature, the presi­dent again declined to invite the Palestinian leader to the White House. 
Mideast leaders tend to give great weight to symbolism. And Bush has given them something to think about. Sharon was his first visitor from the region. The first two Arab leaders he has invited have peace treaties with Israel and are considered moderates 
President 
calendar" 

a n d implied an invitation to Arafat depended on whether he used his influence to stop the vio­lence. 
A day earlier, a pair of even­handed statements from the White House and the State Department pulled back from what had been virtually unqualified support and understanding for Israel and Sharon against world pressure in behalf of the Palestinians. 
Clinton spurs ethics reform in senate 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The chairman of the Senate Rules Committee is proposing that senators-elect abide by Senate ethics laws rather than wait until 
they are sworn in. a rule that might have stopped New York Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton 


f r o m Clinton 
accepting some gifts as first lady. 
She supports the change, a spokesman said. 
Sen. Mitch McConnell's mea­sure would make senators sub­ject to Senate rules -including a $50 limit on gifts -as soon as they are certified the election winner. Currently, senators come under the rules only after they are sworn in, some two months later. 
Also Thursday, Sen. Clinton agreed to co-sponsor legislation that would change the presiden­tial pardon system, a measure inspired by her husband's actions just before leaving office. 
The Clintons were criticized earlier this year when they left the White House with $190,027 worth of furniture and other gifts. It is not known whether any of those gifts arrived in November and December, while she was a senator-elect. 
Some of the gifts were 
returned after questions arose over whether the items were intended as personal gifts or donations to the White House. 
A McConnell aide said Thursday that the Kentucky Republican made his proposal without any particular lawmak­er in mind. Clinton spokesman Jim Kennedy said she supports the idea. 
McConnell quietly signaled his intention to change the rule last week as the Senate began debating campaign finance reform legislation. His spokesman Robert Steurer said it was now unlikely McConnell would push the change as part of the ongoing campaign finance debate, but could seek the change at a later date. 
A change in Senate rules requires approval from two­thirds ofthe members. 
"We think it's a great idea." said Gary Ruskin, executive director of the Congressional Accountability Project, a Washington D.C.-based watch­dog group that has called for stricter Senate ethics guidelines. 
The former first lady also faced criticism for the $8 million memoir deal she signed as a senator-elect. Even if the McConnell provision had been in place, it would not have applied to her book deal because Senate rules exempt royalties from the chamber's ban on outside income. 
The pardons bill by Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa., would require those pressing for presidential pardons and commutations to register as lobbyists. 




' " 


~HE

vnSERVER Friday, March 30, 200 I 
page 12 


THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Noire Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDlmR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Kerry Smich  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley V1.EWPO!Nf EDITOR: Pat McElwee SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadter ScENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARYS EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
CONTACT Us 

OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING...... ...............................63 l-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF ........................................ 631-4542 MANAGING EDJTORIAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer .obsnews. l@nd.edu 
Yl!:"WPOINT. ................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. I@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer .sports. I@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................63l-4S4Q 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARv's................................ : ............ 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS................ .631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updaces ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 

movies/music for 
minute forecasts 

weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 

online features for spe­
and rates ofprint ads 

cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 

about The Observer 
articles published after 

to meet the editors and 
staff
August 1999 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the scudents ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Ed.i tor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assisrant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qwstiom regarding Observer po/icic shouldbe dir«t• ed to Editor in Chief Mike Connolly. 
On Wednesday I visited an Austrian grade school in a town called Neustift, a ski-resort town 20 minutes outside of Innsbruck. I helped a teacher at the school present American mass media and film to a group of E.'~;r::;;iiiiiZ::--~ 12-and 13-year-old girls. (A lone boy sat quietly on the far side of the classroom.) 
After the initial introductions we dis­cussed American television, in partic­ular the countless news programs that keep Americans informed. We then asked the students to create their own news program and to perform the show in front of the class. 
The first presentation featured the murder of Monica Lewinsky by former President Bill Clinton. The anchors of the second group narrated the shooting of a teacher in New York by an American boy whose hatred of math motivated his actions. 
Initially. the students' inquiries into the English words for murder and gun surprised me. I had not expected vio­lent ideas to come from the mouths of adole.scents around the same age as my sister. However, their imaginary shows simply imitated the programs that they watch each day on Austrian and American channels like CNN. 
The activity also highlighted the stu­dents' conception of the United States and evidenced the increasing presence of violence in the classroom in both Austria and the United States. News programs and American cop television series have led many Austrians to liken American city streets to war zones. Movies laden with crime and drugs also contribute greatly to this impression. With the world-wide coverage of the recent school shootings,.American classrooms have also developed a simi-lar reputation. 

I questioned both the teacher with whom I worked at the school, Mr. Wolfgang Bilcwicz, and my advanced language professor at Innsbruck, Professor Sylvia Mayr, who also teach­es at a local school, concerning their reaction to the recent school shootings and the presence of violence in Austrian schools. 
Neither was shocked by the news of another school shooting in the United States. Both linked the violent actions of the young perpetrators to the easy availability of guns in the United States. Unlike many Americans, Austrians do not associate the posses­sion of a gun with freedom and there­fore have no understanding of the free flow of arms throughout American cities. 
Weapon laws in Austria make the acquisition of a gun incredibly difficult. Citizens must first register with the police and present reason for obtaining a weapon. Most guns are generally owned only for occupational purposes. 
A difference in culture helps to explain the European conception of American cities. As Professor Mayr explained, in Austria the topic of crime remains taboo. Discussions concerning sex in the public forum and the con­frontation of sexual ideas in advertise­ments and other media occur frequent­ly in everyday life. 
In America and in American films crime exists as a drama open for public portrayal and discussion. Sex remains taboo. This reversal undoubtedly heightens the impact of the violence that the Austrian students view in movies and sitcoms and perhaps leads them to imitate the actions of the per­sonalities, real and fictitious. in the media. 
While an actual shooting in an Austrian school has occurred on only one or two occasions, Professor Mayr noted an increase in harsh verbal lan­guage and in instances of Austrian stu­dents bringing toy guns and gas pistols 
to school. The prevalence of conflicts 
between native Austrian gangs and 
groups of Turkish immigrants has also 
elevated in recent years. 
The increasing presence of violence 
in Austrian schools leads to the ongo­
ing debate concerning the mass media. 
Do the news programs on CNN simply 
report reality that movies and televi­
sion in turn imitate? Or do the news 
shows, through their designation of 
stories to report. create a reality whose 
truth film and television then support? 
In Innsbruck and the surrounding 
communities, students do not experi­
ence violent crimes, particularly those 
involving guns. as part of their daily 
lives. The children's conception of mur­
ders and shootings derives from their 
depiction in the media. Gas-pistol 
wielding students here undoubtedly 
imitate television and film. 
As I listened to the students' news 
programs, I was forced to confront the 
effect of the subject of my discussion, 
the American mass media. on their 
mentalities and ideas. I wondered to 
what extent the media has made the 
children accustomed to the idea of 
crime -an entity to which they should 
not be desensitized. since they do not 
experience it in their daily lives. I con­
sidered the harm to which that desen­
sitization might lead in the future. 
Yet at the same time Americans and 
Austrians cannot ignore the crime that 
does occur on city streets. They cannot 
disregard violent actions and deny 
their existence in the public forum. A 
solution does not follow the ignorance 
of a problem. And so the final question 
stands: Can the media address violent 
crime publicly without fostering it? 
Joanna Mikulski is a sophomore who 
is currently spending the year in 
Innsbruck, Austria. Her column 
appears every other Friday. 
The opinions expressed in this col­.umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
DILBERT 
BOB, I'M STARTING A POWER UTILITY COMPANY. 


E 
8 
t: 
B 
li 
YOU'LL BE MY DIRECTOR OF MARKETING. YOUR. JOB IS TO INCREASE REVENUE. 

SCOTT ADAMS 
NORMALLY I'M AN HERBIVORE, BILLY, BUT WHEN THE LIGHTS 
a ~ 
... 
'Cl 
! 
c 
::, 
0 
0 
N G 
Q 
Uo 
"'
"' 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Our understanding ofhow to live -live with one another -is still far behind our knowledge ofhow to destroy one another. ,, 
Lyndon B. )ohnson former•president 

nJ:HE 

Friday, March 30, 200 I vnSERVER page 13 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

New group promotes confidence in women 
The problem is sprawling. Sometimes it's visible. sometimes not. Eating dis• orders and disordered eating is not only a growing crisis on campus, but throughout our country. We don't need to recognize this as a problem, we have to do something about it. 
Having said that. I want to praise the new group, A Life Uncommon, and its founders. I want to thank any woman who was brave enough to walk into the meeting. acknowledging that she has issues with food. I want to encourage any woman who thinks she may be a disordered eater, who has friends that have these issues or just wants to know more to come. 
Much of the battle of an eating disor• der is personal struggle, yet another equally important part of the healing process is searching for the underlying disorder. We as women share many issues. If we are to save ourselves and our friends, we need to join together and find in us and in our society what it is that is destroying so many intelli­gent, beautiful and strong women. 
A Life Uncommon allows one not only to share their pain but also to find hope in their power and amazing potential. 

You may not have an eating disorder. You may think you don't even know anyone with such a problem. That does • not mean you should ignore this issue. 
So many things we say and do are 
GUEST COLUMN 

promoting the backwards thinking of never even met, when you look the media. We cannot help but be through Cosmo, when you're having influenced by the things with which we one of those ugly days. Who decided are surrounded. From Barbie to what was beautiful, what should Seventeen Magazine to ---=~:::::-.... be considered normal and 
Victoria's Secret to Maxim, we are flooded with images of unhealthy and unrealistic women. 
Girls, I know per­sonally the daily struggle of looking in the mirror and fighting that nega­tive voice in the back of your mind. I realize that many women have self confi­dence problems; what I am plead­ing for is an end to the negative self talk. 
Let's discuss our concerns on a real level and affirm our­selves as much as we that skinny was good? Who 

are we to judge? Guys, I hope you think about the things you 
say to your girl­friends and girl friends. You may be 
joking and we may t'5'" laugh,butyour ~ comments about 
how wonderful that Playboy model is hit deep­
• er than you think. If you don't want girls to ask you "Do I look fat in 
this?" you should make sure you are promoting only healthy feminine images. I am disappointed ~·• to say that I know men 
criticize. Claiming mid­on this campus who dining hall meal that you have honestly told one of are fat in front of your r' their female friends (mind
FAT • friends does neither yourself ___ you she was tiny) that if she nor your friends any good. got fat they would no longer be 
Question yourself when you are friends with her. I, and many other tempted to talk about some girl you've women I'm sure, have great guy friends that feel the need to constantly joke about our bodies. I trust that these are all in fun but I assure you that after a while they begin to sink in. As women at Notre Dame we are high• ly intelligent and we resent your underestimation of our value. 
Whether eating disorders and nega­tive body image are a part of your daily thoughts or not, I ask that you consider what I have said. Unfortunately, for the rest of my life I will consciously and subconsciously fight the temptation to starve my body. 
Don't get me wrong, I love my body. I respect it a lot more than I used to. My point is that we all need to fight this. If we don't we will take on the beliefs of our surroundings without even think­ing about whether those beliefs are right or wrong. 
We need to fight for our daughters' generation, that they might realize they are not a cup size, a jean size, a weight or a BMI. Let us create a world that teaches girls to celebrate their minds, spirits and beautifully healthy bodies. 
Lora Redford 
junior Pasquerilla West Hall March 28, 2001 


Uncovering motives behind the ban on hemp 
EVANSTON. Ill. 
Hemp, the favorite fiber of many a radical college student, remains a restricted crop in the United States for a simple, worrisome reason: Hemp threatens the budget of the Drug Enforcement Agency and powerful U.S. interest groups. 
Since 1894, when Rudolph Diesel developed the diesel engine to run on hempseed oil, fuel industries have known that biodiesel (veg­etable oil) is a cheap and effective alternative to petrochemi­
Dana Lossla
cal fuels. Industrial hemp also can be used to produce fabrics. paper. building materials and other products that traditionally 
The Daily
require cotton and timber. 


The petrochemical, cotton, wood-based paper and timber Northwestern industries know a threat when they see one, given that Congress pays the DEA to confiscate hemp plants -usually tens of billions of dollars annually as the agency wipes out plots of land used for hemp cultivation during WWII. 
As a result, despite the environmental, ecological and economic advantages to growing hemp, the DEA opposes "any consideration of hemp as a legitimate fiber or pulp product." 
Why should this concern you? First. traditional fuel sources are running out and biodiesel is on its way in. Opting out of participation in this new industry means continued reliance on foreign oil and all that comes with it. 
Second. deforestation is harming biodiversity and increasing the greenhouse effect. As the bumper sticker says, we should let the trees grow and use hemp. 
With a growing cycle of only 100 days, hemp yields four times the amount of fiber an average forest yields, and hemp paper can be recycled up to 60 more times than other papers because of the exceptional length of its fibers. 
Finally, dangerous chemicals are accumulating in our water and soil. Unlike marijuana, hemp is grown in tightly spaced rows to maximize stalk, making her• bicides unnecessary. Hemp also is naturally resistant to pests, and -consider­
ing that 50 percent of the world's pesticides are sprayed on cotton -using hemp instead of cotton would prevent more ecological damage. 
Furthermore, hemp paper is lighter and can be dyed more easily, decreasing the need for bleach, and therefore reducing the release of dioxin into the envi• ronment. 
Although opponents of industrialized hemp equate it to marijuana, hemp can­not be used as a drug because it contains too little tetrahydrocannabinol (THC). the chemical in recreational and medicinal marijuana that causes its pleasantly mind•altering effects. 
The amount of smoke inhalation necessary to get high from industrial hemp would be insufferable to humans. Furthermore, no country that cultivates indus­trial hemp has experienced a rise in marijuana use. 
But the DEA -unlike more than 30 industrialized democracies and several international treaties -classifies all cannabis sativa varieties, including indus­trial hemp and marijuana, the same way. . 
Current laws are in place because the DEA is unwilling to lose a major source of revenue and because of the power of cotton, timber and petroleum-based plastics industries. In other words, hemp's illegalization makes some people in the United States a lot of money. (The same can be said for marijuana, but that's another story.) 
This issue impacts anyone who cares about the environment or the integrity of our political system. 
If you want to support hemp sellers, begin at Eco'Fields at 1708 N. Wells in Chicago. Talk to the owner Patricia, too. There is much truth about American politics hidden in the tale of this amazing plant. 
This article originally appeared in Northwestern University ·s newspaper The Daily Northwestern on May 28. 2000 and is reprinted here courtesy of U-WIRE. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 

\ 
T 

page 14 Friday, March 30, 200 I 
Planes, trains and c 

Scene writer Joe Larson shares his traveling trials and tribulations as he a 
In the London Program, as in all other study abroad programs. there is time scheduled during each semester for the students studying abroad to travel to different locales than the ones they Joe Larson are exploring dur­ing their daily rou­tines. So, like everyone Scene writer else, I went on a little odyssey of sorts around Europe. Accompanied by one Agent Pigpen and one Agent Funny Roommate, I set off on the trip we planned haphaz­ardly on a Wednesday afternoon. We were doomed from the start. During our three-hour wait, 10 minute talk session with the travel agent, blind deliberation about certain destinations and shoddy plans for getting places, we devised our plan and believed in it. The travel agent said it was feasible ­why would she lie? Our plan was to fly into Lisbon, Portugal on Friday and then ride the train up through Spain and France to Paris, where we could simply take the Chunnel (for those not down with the lingo, the Chunnel is a train that goes under the English Channel from Paris to London) back to London where we'd celebrate the greatness of our-first European vacation. In our heads, our trip was basically goihg to be the same one any superstar rock band on tour would have. We made no hotel reservations, no train reserva­tions, we didn't even plan out where we were going to be on what day. Even rock bands do that. We just figured every­thing would "fall into place," as Agent Pigpen so wisely put it. Things began smoothly. We arrived at the airport in London and went through customs. Pigpen, Funny Roommate and I were concealing no automatic rifles so everything was cool -until they told us we had to check our bags. Each of us had back packs that we thought would· be pretty easy to store in an overhead 
; 
f 
I 
' 
compartment, but British Airways agreed to disagree and sent us to a small room in the back of the airport where some little man who didn't speak English just kind of threw our bags on the conveyor and smiled at us. Okay, we thought, there goes our luggage, most likely never to be seen again. So we left the little man and the little room and headed for the terminal. 
London's Heathrow Airport has an interesting system. Once you go through customs, there is a set of checkpoints that once you pass, you may not return. Deciding to make sure we knew where our terminal was, we inadvertently crossed every checkpoint Heathrow had to offer. Back to the beginning we went. We finally found the plane and arrived in Lisbon, and, surprisingly, our little man came through and our luggage was there. 
It was a Friday night, so we decided to hit the town. Instead of consulting our "Let's Go" guidebook, we asked the receptionist, a man who looked like a cross between Papa Smurf and Don Knotts with four teeth (if you can picture that), where we could find a good time in Lisbon. He got a map and drew on it, and we followed it exactly for about two hours. 
We found two bars, including one where we were the only patrons. We kept looking. Eventually, we heard loud dance music up the street and headed that way. The place at least had a few people in it. Only something about it was strange. If you made a sharp left after walking through the door instead of heading for the bar, you ended up in a department store. 
The evening ended with us talking to the only other patrons of this psychedel­ic mix of fashion and dancing, several Italian girls who spoke very little English, if any at all. I was talking to one about Italy and after exhausting all other options. I asked her about her impression of "The Godfather." When traveling in Europe, you really should make a conscious effort not to establish 

AFP Photo 

The El Prado art museum in Madrid, Spain is the city's largest tourist attrac­tion. Be forewarned, though, the museum is not open on Mondays. 
In Barcelona, Spain, one can take In the breathtaking views of the ports or visit to many historical and architectural masterpieces. · 
yourself to Europeans as a "stupid American," but it never fails, because you are, in fact, a stupid American. 
After this awesome night of falling into stereotypes, we headed back to the hos­tel and I remembered that I had to share a bed with Pigpen. Maybe Axl and Slash had to do this, too. 
The next day, we began walking around the city. After a bit more wan­dering around Lisbon, we decided to take the night train to Madrid, Spain. 
After a seven-hour train ride, we were ready to go experience 
the Madrid nightlife In our heads, our trip Go" guide and, once 
we had heard so much was basically going to be again, simply couldn't about. find a busy. fun place 
the same one any super­
We got dressed up. to go. The highlight of 
I'm not talking about star rock band on tour the evening was dressed up like we're would have. Pigpen and me in a 
more sightseeing. We saw the Plaza Major, Plaza de Santa Ana (where Hemmingway used to hang out), all on the way to El Prado Museum, which is the biggest tourist attraction in Madrid. 
After walking all the way down to El Prado, we learned that all the museums close on Mondays. 
Defeated, we took a siesta (which, by the way, is the greatest invention in the world) and got ready to go out. Funny Roommate was too tired, so it was just 
Pigpen and me. We 
planned the night 
according to the "Let's 

going to the Boat Club, I'm talking like money, like the bomb. Black shirt, black pants, black shoes, dark gray socks (my black ones weren't cleaned for the trip). But I stopped short of the hair gel, I refuse to sell out that far. 
But then we ran into a problem: it was Sunday night. None of the big clubs were open and the bars were empty. We went out and tried to have fun anyway. 
Now. Pigpen and I speak a little Spanish {very little) and Funny Roommate took German so he had no chance. \,Ve met some girls from Moscow who didn't speak English, but spoke Spanish. Pigpen and I both tried about three different Spanish sentences, all three trailing off in the middle because of forgotten vocabulary words. before retreating to the warmth of the bar. 
The next day was Monday and we did Hawaiian-style tiki 
bar, having drinks out 

of large, painted vases whose contents are still unknown. The ridiculousness of this scene simply can­not be recreated in words. 
Next, we left the beaten path for a town called Segovia, where \Ve met with a friend, Agent Ben. Segovia is wonder­ful. It has the oldest Homan aqueduct in the world -somewhere around 3,000 years old. The views of the Spanish countryside are breathtaking. Ben did a great job showing us the Spanish culture we simply couldn't find by ourselves. 
We drank sangria, ate paella and drank a lot of wine. Our train left at 8 
a.m the next day. We were in pretty bad shape. Pigpen lost our alarm clock. I lost jeans and a T-shirt. 
Our connecting train was in Madrid following a two-hour layover. We finally saw El Prado. We got on the train and, 
' f 


Friday, March 30, 2001 page 15 
tutobuses ••• kind of 
rnd his friends set out to take a triparound Europe while abroad in London 

AFP Photo 
some of the bustling discotheques found In the Olympic Village. Barcelona is host 

due to the sudden motion of the train, I was forced to evacuate the contents of mv stomach into a trash can in the mid­dle of the car. 
The funny thing was that as I emerged from the trash can, a little old Spanish woman muttered something in Spanish and handed me a plastic grocery bag. Either the lady said "Take this in case you need to throw up again." or "Could you throw this away for me?" I'm not sure, but I took the bag with me. . Then, we were off to Valencia, where another friend of ours was studying. This is Agent Susan. 
When we got to Valencia, which is supposed to be a beautiful beach city, it was raining and cold. Susan informed us that "this is the first day it has rained all year." 
Well, that's about right. I figured. 

After spending four days in Spain I feel I'm allowed to make a few broad generalizations. The first one, Spain just kind of seems to bP under construction. Each city we went to was filled with scaffolding and construction sites. It kind of took away from the picturesque nature of it. . Also, everything you order to eat there comes with fried eggs. 
Pork chops and fried eggs. Chicken and fried eggs. Omelets with egg yolk on tlwm. 
It's just inescapable. You can even get pizza with an egg on it. It's weird. 
Another thing, in Spain, you have to buy a lot of bottled water. So that costs money. Then, you have to pee. Except, you have to pay for that, too. I'm start­ing to see their evil ploy to suck the pesetas out of your pocket faster than you can say "Donde esta el bano?" 
On Thursday, we traveled to Barcelona. We got there and soon found a hostel. We walked down Las Ramblas to the big statue of Christopher Columbus pointing at something which I assumed was America, but our guide­book whimsically pointed out that good old Cristobol was really pointing at Libya -builder's mistake. I guess even national landmarks can be wrong. I didn't feel so bad about our trip now. 

Due to our never-ending quest to find this crazy Spanish nightlife that continu­ally eluded us on the trip we decided to, once again, get all dressed up and go out. (By now, our clubbing clothes have been worn and crammed in and out of our bags for a week. so we don't look quite as money as maybe we did in Lisbon, but still pretty money.) 
We visited an Irish bar and people were speaking English! Yes! This was extremely exciting because I could bare­ly stand looking at -let alone standing within 10 feet of-Funny Roommate and Pigpen. We'd all been feeling this 
way. 
Here is where we met the most beauti­ful woman in the world (and her two nice enough friends). They hailed from Sweden and spoke English; we all joked around for awhile and it was great. 
After closing out the bar. we decided to keep the .night going (even though the Swedes had backed out) by going down to the Olympic Village, which was sup­posed to harbor some of the coolest nightlife in Barcelona. 
Armed with directions and a napkin­drawn map from the bartender, we went. Morale was high at this point. We had just conversed with other people and could now stand each other's pres­ence. That didn't last long. We got down to the pier and, unfortunately, took an early right where there were a few bars. 
We thought we had found the Olympic Village. Wrong. The place we entered looked more like a half-full Benchwarmer's. The only difference was the two dancers on two different pedestals across the room. Nice, but not enough. The next night, we found the Olympic Village and the awesome clubs we had been searching for the night before. 
Better late than never? In Spain. you have to of Terror we stopped. No. Pigpen says, "Let's 
buy a lot ofbottled

Then, we saw all of just go home." I can't Gaudi's architectural water. So that costs believe it, but I agree. work in Barcelona. Seeing Paris without
money. Then. you have 
The Park Guiel and the seeing the Louvre is 
to pee. Except. you have
Familia Sagrada are like visiting the cam­absolutely beautiful. to pay for that, too. pus of Notre Dame 
Here's where the trip's swinging pendu­lum of fatal errors began to progress with more momentum. We were faced with a 12-hour night train ride to Paris. Again, we never planned the trip and now we've realized we had to be home in two days. 
We needed to get to Paris and this was the only option. The second leg of the trip was a five hour ride starting at 
12:30 a.m. 

Again, due to the loss of the alarm clock, we were forced to sleep light (which is basically not at all) in order to be ready to get off the train. 
Now in Paris, and we were annoyed. It was a long trip and many things would be nice. 
1. 
A shower. We were making the French smell good. 

2. 
About three days of sleep. 

3. 
A place to stay for the night. 



4. 
Someone in our group who speaks French. (I was deemed the spokesman for the group because I had French class once a week in the fourth grade). 


Any one of these four things would have helped the situation. Of course, the pendulum 
was at full speed now and we are pretty much screwed. 
Failing to find a suit­able place to stay, we decided to see Paris in one after­noon and then hop on the train back to London. 
Okay, to the Louvre. We were standing in line for the Louvre in relatively good spirits. considering our state of affairs and the mind­bendingly strong cup of coffee we've just had. Then.like Tyrell to our Princes of England, some securi­ty guard came into view and told us that we could not 

bring big bags into the Louvre. 
We were embarrassingly forced to leave the line and wander around in dis­belief. 
No Venus De Milo. No Mona Lisa. No bathroom to wash up in. 
In our rejected state, we wandered through the garden towards the Champs-Elysees. After walking to the 
site of 1,343 behead­
ings during the Reign 
without seeing Stepan 
Center. 

Simply unacceptable. 
Interesting that we decide to end our trip where 1,343 people's heads were lopped off by a guillotine. 
So. true to the rest of our trip, we got to the train station and had to wait two and a half hours for the train back to London. So, there you have it. 
Six cities, eight days. 
I know now that six cities in eight days is too ambitious. Some would go as far as to say it was stupid. 
Some would say the moral of the story is to plan better, but I already know I need to do that. I'd like to think it's an interesting look at different culture than our own. Also, it's an experience that makes you feel like an American, stupid or not. A lot of people argue about whether or not we have it better or worse than European countries. I'd just like to point out that the problem is that we just have it different. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Friday, March 30, 2001 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 

NHL 
Toronto's Domi spars with fan in penalty box 
ized early in the third period, water. I didn't plan on fighting other team going." early in the third. 
Associated Press 

was being taunted by fans. anybody." Jonas Hoglund scored the "We've had some disappoint­Twice, he sprayed water on a Falcone. treated by medical game-winning goal less than a ing outings in the last little
PHILADELPHIA 

few who were sitting in the personnel at the arena, did not minute later as the Maple Leafs while," Toronto coach Pat
Tie Domi had never before 

front row before Chris Falcone, go to a hospital. He was given a defeated the Flyers for the sec­Quinn said. "It was an impor­
chipped a tooth, and only once 

a 36-year-old concrete worker police citation that requires a ond time in five days. Toronto tant game for us. both for our
before had he fought in the 

from Havertown, Pa.. lunged court appearance. has lost three of five -winning frame of mind as we approach
penalty box. 

toward Domi. Dami was not penalized fur­only against Philadelphia. playoffs, and also we didn't
I, , On Thursday night, he did 

Falcone landed on the glass ther and played later in the Toronto also got an early have anything assured at this
both. 

partition separating fans from period. power-play goal from Gary point."
Domi, Toronto's penalty-min­

the box. The glass gave way, Earlier in the game, Domi Roberts, who knocked the puck The penalty-box antics didn't
utes leader, wrestled with a 

and Falcone and Domi scuffled was knocked to the ice by a in during a scuffle in front of help the Flyers escape their
spectator who tumbled into the 

before linesman Kevin Collins high stick from Philadelphia the net 57 seconds into the sec­fourth game without a win. The 
box during the Maple Leafs' 2­

stepped in. goalie Roman Cechmanek -ond period. Flyers dropped to 0-4-2 this
1 victory over the Philadelphia 

Domi's actions were reviewed much to the delight of cheering Philadelphia outshot Toronto season without Keith Primeau.
Flyers on Thursday night. 

"That hasn't happened to me by arena security, and the NHL Flyers fans who uttered deri­39-27 as the Flyers recorded who leads the team with 34 since I was 15 years old in is expected to conduct its own sive chants when he returned their highest shot total this sea­goals -11 on the power play. ' ' ', junior hockey. It was a mas­review, which could lead to a to the ice late in the third. son. The other Philadelphia centers 
I 
. '\ II cot," Domi said. "Hey. that's fine and suspension. "It's kind of comical, as long Toronto ·s Curtis Joseph, 4-12 have only 37 goals combined. ) old time hockey. It was per­"They threw stuff at me. as it's a freak thing and nobody against the Flyers, made a Primeau is expected to be out fect." Once was enough," Domi said. gets hurt," said Dan McGillis, series of big saves, including at least three weeks -missingl Earlier in the game, he ..After the second one, I told who scored Philadelphia's only catching a shot by Paul at least the first round of the chipped a tooth when he fell to the guy in the penalty box that goal at 8:12 of the first. "He's Ranheim at the end of the sec­playoffs -because of a knee the ice. after one more I was going to the kind of guy who likes to get ond period and stopping Dean sprain sustained Monday at The rugged forward, penal-squirt water. So I squirted the crowd going and get the McAmmond on a breakaway Ottawa. 
NCAA BASKETBALL 


M~Graw wins coach of year, Irish sweep AP awards 
for the Irish. when, as a high school senior that when that was over, I was ages thre~ blocks a game and
Associated Press 

They make an interesting in Macy, Ind., she watched looking for something else to can pass out of double-teams pair --the 6-foot-5 Riley towers Notre Dame in the 1997 Final do that would keep me in bas­with the skill of Bill Walton.
ST. LOUIS 

over her coach, who is at least Four. ketball," McGraw said. "Plus, I "She's one in a million,"
The day Muffet McGraw 

a foot shorter and was a feisty "It was so exciting to watch was a sociology major. Who McGraw said. "I don't think
became women's basketball 

coach at Notre Dame was point guard in her playing days knowing that was where I was could find a job in that field? there's ever been a player like
a at St. Joseph's. going to go," she said. "You "So I went into coaching and her, somebody who has donejoyous one for her family -. 

"I think we're both very com­just can't help but wish that I knew from the first practice so much for our program atespecially her father. 
petitive," McGraw said. "I think you were a year older and be a this is my passion. I love the both ends of the floor." 
"I don't know who was hap­our personalities are similar in part of that already. But I think game and I needed to stay in Thursday's award was thepier, my husband or my dad," that we don't like to have a lot it showed a lot of potential. It coaching." latest in a string of accoladesMcGraw said, a grin spreading 


of sit-down meetings to talk showed me that was possible McGraw is 408-158 in 19 for Riley, who was a unani­across her face. "My dad hasn't about what we're going to do. for where I was going." seasons as a college coach, the mous All-American, an acade­
had to buy a beer at the 

We just want to go out and do McGraw was an overwhelm­first five at Lehigh. She has 12 mic All-American and theKnights of Columbus since I've it. We're a little impatient just ing choice in the voting by AP 20-win seasons at Notre Dame, Naismith Award winner.
been at Notre Dame." 

to get things done." member newspapers nation­and this season's team set a Wednesday. while her team
There has been plenty for 

The Irish have done a lot this wide. receiving 60 votes to 12 school record for victories. was flying to St. Louis, Rileydad to toast. 
( I i season. They gained their first for the runner-up. Tennessee's Riley. who edged Southwest flew to Minneapolis to appear
Now in her 14th season with No. 1 ranking in The AP poll, Pat Summitt. Missouri State's Jackie Stiles on an ESPN awards shown,

the Irish and in her second 

beat Connecticut for the first One of the many women's 30-26 for the player award. then was flown to St. Louis toFinal Four, McGraw received time, shared the Big East title coaches to come out of the has been a large part of rejoin her team.
The Associated Press coach of with UConn and will take a 32-Philadelphia area. McGraw got McGraw's success. Nearly "It's kind of hard since we'rethe year award Thursday. She 2 record into yet another meet­her start at Philly's Archbishop impossible to defend 1-on-1, still playing. All you're thinking shared the podium with Notre ing with the Huskies in Friday Carroll High School. where she Riley averages 18.4 points and about is this weekend and theDame center Ruth Riley, who night's national semifinals. was 50-3 in two seasons. 7. 7 rebounds. She shoots 63 games we have to play," Riley

was voted the player of the 

This is what Riley hoped for "I just loved playing so much percent from the field, aver-said.
year. making it a clean sweep 

I , 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a,m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 
CLASSIFIEDS 

024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p,m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds, 
apartment, decorative fireplace, to be upset because I couldn't take Your super-convenient dream diet near el, heat included! May 1 you to the train, Thanks for telling Three hours to ICPA. Singing all the from a name you trust is coming to 1250/mo, 773-472-7775 FOR SALE me! Good luck on your interview, way.
LOST AND FOUND 

Notre Dame! No complicated count• 
ing! Eat pizza, cookies, fast food CHICAGO APT AVAILABLE FOR Full size bed with box spring and OK, ICPA here we come I bet you all want to go in my car Lost any food you crave and lose weight. MAY THROUGH AUGUST IN LIN­frame $150 call 634-4575 now, don't you A black carry-on bag at Main Circle Get info-packed booklets, tons of COLN PARK LOCATION. CLOSE Myra, let me again emphasize that on Thurs9ay (3/22) between 8 p.m. super-easy recipes, samples of TOEL Europe $199 one wat you rock Wow, I have class in less than four and midnight. It found or have any your great snack bars and special­1 OR 2 BEDROOMS. Mexico/Caribbean or Central hours info on its whereabouts, please ized online support from trained OWN BATHROOM. America $250 round trip+ tax. Wow, I think I am tired contact Weight Watchers staff. You pay just $780/MO, Other worldwide destinations and I have to move the van Pablo at x1775 $59 for 5 weeks, Summer is just 1-312-443-6062. JAIME. cheap, If you can beat these prices And 9 a.m, comes early 
around the corner register today start your own darn airline! Book oh, hey guys? who took my keys! over the phone: 1-800-572-5727, 3 Houses still available for 2001-02. tickets online www ajrtech com or They're playing J-lo again...and please put them back in my desk Visa, MasterCard, and Discover 5·6 BR, Furnished, W/0, prime (877) AIRTECH Nelly.. ,and JaneLits the MTV late 
,i 
I I WANTED Accepted locations, 233-9947 Greg, night loop in full effect Amanda.. Jhinking about you. Good luck. Indiana Catholic couple with huge I did it. Guilty as charged.

PERSONAL
JOB OPPORTUNITY hearts wishing to adopt a child. We New home Fall 2001, This 3+ bdrm, 1wonder if I can go for three out of Four ND families looking tor cre­can provide your baby with lots of 3 bath home is close to campus actually, I may snore tonight town keynote addresses. ative tutor to instruct grade school love and a secure, stable life, with features like fireplace, cathe• SHOUTOUT TO OBSERVER ICPA childrn in home setting. Ed, Degree Reasonable expenses will be paid, dral ceilings, family room, deluze DELEGATION: Meet in SDH office while dreaming of sting we are so almost there. not req. Normal school calendar For more info, please call Rebecca appliances, 24x30 garage. at 3 p,m. and get ready to rock Indy Hours 8-12 Mon, Thurs, re Larry &Kathy: toll-free 1-866-30· $1400/mo, Call 219-232-4527 or like only the O can ... madonna doesn't count, neither Babylon, .. Call 254-9466 ADOPT 616-683-5038 does drew 
CM--the only good thing about PL's yeah, 5: 10 am CHILDCARE NEEDED: ND prof class was that he wasn't there I have you all beat needs childcare in home T•Th FOR RENT Nice 3-bdrm, 1·1/2 bath Please let me go home, mornings, ideally 9·2 but at least 9-Tri-level, family room, fireplace, Chuk, Iam not mad, I just don't like man, there are a whole lot of classi• 
1. Three great kids, 5,3,1. Large 3-6 bedroom homes tum Near fenced backyard, 2-car garage, to be teased, And for the record, I fieds tonight if I would have gone to la tierra de comfortable home 1 mile from cam­campus 2001/02&summer 272-$995/mo, don't snore corazon instead of doing this, I pus, Own transportation required. 6306 Call-219-232-4527 or 616683-5038 Frasso, good first article would have been home already Please call 631-3654 days, 289· Thank you Thursday night staff •• but who's bitter? 3865 evenings or email meiss-HOUSES FOR RENT: 1 )4-br you rock does this mean I need to get cassie ner.1 @nd edu $700/month 2)3-br, $600/rnonth 3-bdrm home 2 blcks from campus to write now? I might be seriously it's almost the weekend , now 
WeOII make almost any changes to Fall 01 . 273-1566 Babylon outnumbered in the Best Friend there is something to be happy 
the houses. Call Bill at 675-0776 Crete Writing Contest about LOSE WEIGHT! EAT WHAT YOU Athens LIKE! Chicago two bedroom in Lakeview Guess it could have been anything .. OK, who sings closer than my ng, it has been fun working with WEIGHT WATCHERS ON CAM­owned by Dorner, nice closets, peeps you are to rrie? Newsflash you, Thank God for MTV and rap at PUS SERVICE brick 6-flat, Hardwood Floors, bright JM, when you get back, I am going shaggy: it ain't romantic, 5:30a,m 
Friday, March 30, 200 I 

The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Ryan named new Badgers coach 
Associated Press 
MADISON, Wis. 
Bo Hyan was Plan B for the 
Wisconsin coaching job after 
Utah's Rick Majerus turned it 
down. 
"I don't know if I was my 
wife's first choice, either," Ryan 
said. "But we've had a great 
marriage." 
Ryan was hired as the 
Badgers' new coach on 
Thursday. although he won't 
sign his contract until the 
Board of Regents meets next 
month. 
Terms won't be made public 
until then. but his compensa­
tion package is expected to be 
about $2 million over five 
years, double what he was 
making at Wisconsin­
Milwaukee. 
"We were looking for a coach with a national reputation, someone right for this team," Chancellor John Wiley said. "We found the right coach right here in Wisconsin, and we're delighted to have him." 
Byan. who won four NCAA Division III national champi­ons hips in 15 years at Wisconsin-Platteville before moving to Milwaukee two years ago, takes over a team that has reached the NCAA Tournament four times in the last five years and went to the Final Four under Dick Bennett a year ago. 
Ryan, 53, replaces Brad Soderberg, who wasn't retained after going 16-10 after Bennett retired in November. The Badgers lost in the first rounds of the Big Ten and NCAA tour­naments this season. 

Athletics director Pat Richter said Ryan was a better man for the job than Soderberg, 38, largely because of experience and also because he has more name recognition in college basketball, which should help recruiting. 
Ryan said he would keep assistant coach Tony Bennett, Dick's son, and hoped to bring his top assistant, Rob Jeter. over from the Panthers. Jeter however, might be a candida~ to replace Ryan at Wisconsin• 
Milwaukee. 
"It's a win­win." said Jeter, who played four years for Ryan at Wisconsin• Platteville and has assisted him for seven seasons. 
T o n y 
"We were looking for a coach with a national reputation. someone right for this team ... 
John Wiley Chancellor, University of Wisconsin-Madison 
Bennett. like Jeter, a 31-year­old rising recruiting star. said he'll serve as a bridge between the old regime and the new one. 
"I heard some people say it's to appease my father; I don't think so," Tony Bennett said. "But, I think it's important to have some continuity and also to keep this team intact." 
Ryan indicated he wanted to continue playing the other Division I programs in the state. Wisconsin•Milwaukee is on next year's schedule. 
Ryan is a former Badgers assistant who wanted the job in 1992 but was beaten out by Stu Jackson, who left for the NBA in 1994 and was followed by Stan Van Gundy. Bennett replaced Van Gundy in 1995. 
"I am so happy for this oppor­tunity," Ryan said. "To be a Badger is great. To be a suc­ces.sful Badger is even better." 
Richter said Ryan emerged as the only serious candidate on Monday after Majerus with­drew from the running to stay 
at Utah. 
Ryan's record in two years at Wisconsin­Milwaukee was 30-27, a turnaround for the Panthers after five dis­mal seasons when they were 31-105 before his 
arrival. 

Richter's criteria was a coach with a national reputation and state ties, things that could attract better athletes to Madison. 
"Don't let the gray hair fool you," Ryan said. "Energy's not a problem. Recruiting, not a problem. We can sell. We have a lot to sell. We have one of the finest academic institutions in the country." 
Knight's new team will play IU in 2002 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 

Bob Knight could be back 
in Bloomington in late 2002 
-if Indiana and Texas Tech 
keep their date to play at 
Assembly Hall. 
Indiana 
athletic 
director 
Clarence 
Doninger, 
w h o 
signed 
the deal 
in 1999, 
said he 
expects 
the game 
to be played although no date 
has been set. 
"I don't know why it wouldn't be," Doninger said. "It's scheduled and I don't know any reason why you wouldn't play it." 
Knight led the Hoosiers to 661 wins and three national championships during his 29­year tenure as Indiana coach before being fired Sept. 10 for violating the university's zero-tolerance behavior poli­cy after he grabbed the arm of a freshman student. 
Knight accepted the job at Texas Tech last week. 
Doninger once was Knight's attorney, but the two became embroiled in a 


rift that went p u b li c last 
spring when Knight was 
under a university investiga­
tion into allegations that he 
choked a former player. 
Since the firing, Knight has 
been an outspoken critic of 
Doninger, who is retiring in 
June after 10 years as 
Indiana's athletic director. 
Texas Tech agreed to a 
two-for-one deal in which the 
Hoosiers visited Lubbock, 
Texas, for the opening. of the 
United Spirit Arena in 1999. 
Texas Tech traveled to 
Bloomington last season for 
the Indiana Classic. The final 
game of the deal is scheduled 
for late 2002 and would put 
Knight on the visitors bench 
at Assembly Hall. 
"It would be interesting," Doninger said. ''But that's a long way off." 
Texas Tech athletic direc­tor Gerald Myers did not return telephone messages left for him Thursday by The Associated Press. 
Doninger said there has been no discussion of a buy­out and that he expects the game to go on as scheduled. 
"In my 10 years as athletic director, I cannot recall a single instance of a school buying out a contract for anything other than a con­flict," he said. "I don't know any reason why you wouldn't play it." 

page 18 

The Observer . SPORTS Friday, March 30, 2001 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Yankees trade Hill to Angels 
Associated Press agent, Torn Reich. 'This a guy Canseco, 36, is 23rd on who made a huge contribution baseball's career home run list TAMPA, Fla. to last year's championship with 446. Injury prone in the Glenallen Hill seemed to but that's baseball in the new past, he split last season with sense there was no place for millennium." Tampa Bay and the Yankees. him on the New York Yankees. Hill, who hit .333 with 29 hitting .252 with 15 home runs 
He turned out to be right. RBIs for New York, gets a $1.5 and 49 RBIs in 98 games. 
Hill, a key addition as the million salary this year. "Jose worked real hard get­Yankees won their third The trade drops the ting himself into shape." straight World Series last Yankees' projected opening­Angels manager Mike Sciascia year, was traded to the day payroll under $109 mil­said. "lt was just a matter of Anaheim Angels on lion, which probably will be us getting a guy that can be a 
Wednesday for Double-A out­below both the Boston Red Sox little more durable with an fielder Darren Blakely. and the Los Angeles Dodgers. explosive bat. We feel that 
"He was fine," Yankees The Yankees led the major Jose can still hit; it's just a manager Joe Torre said. "I leagues last year with a $113 matter of his durability." think he was just happy that million payroll. T h e something was done. He's "It shaves a 1988 AL been hanging around here for little of it off, "I think he was just MVP is a a week or so knowing some­but this was just career
happy that something
body was going to go." because we had .266 hit­After making the deal, a glut of out­was done. He's been ter with Anaheim released Jose fielder," hanging around for a 1 , 3 5 8 Canseco, in camp with the Cashman said. RBIs in a
week or so knowing some­
Angels on a minor league con­Acquired for major tract but slowed by injuries pitchers Ben body was going to go. ,. league this spring. · Ford and career "He's someone we have Ozwaldo that start­
Joe Torre 
more confidence in right now,·• Mairena, Hill ed in
New York Yankees manager
Angels general manager Bill was among 1985 with Stoneman said. "He's a very eight players Oakland. competitive guy. He's going to brought in last He later be a good fit for this team." season when the Yankees played for Texas, Boston and 
Hill, 36, was acquired by the struggled, part of a group that Toronto. Yankees from the Chicago included Canseco, Dwight Blakely, 24, hit .237 with 16 
Cubs last July 16 and hit 16 Gooden, Justice, Denny homers and 54 RBIs at homers in 132 at-bats for New Neagle, Luis Polonia, Luis Sojo Double-A Erie. He will start York, including 10 in his first and Jose Vizcaino. the season at Double-A 
51 at-bats. Only Gooden, Justice and Norwich. 
But his role became super­Sojo remain, and Gooden is The Yankees also accepted fluous when New York signed not assured a spot on the back Rule 5 draftee Brandon free agent outfielder Henry pitching staff when the Knight from the Minnesota. Rodriguez, acquired backup Yankees open the season at The right-handed pitcher was 
Michael Coleman from home against Kansas City on sent to Triple-A Columbus. Cincinnati last week and shift­Monday. ed Chuck Knoblauch from sec­ond base to left field. 
"He's in a great situation now because he is going to be able to DH," Yankees general manager Brian Cashman said. "I can't have that with Chuck out in left field. That locks (David) Justice in the DH here, and Glen because just a right­handed pinch-hitter."

,. 
Rodriguez has missed the past couple days because of back stiffness, but hopes to resume swinging a bat Thursday. 
In addition to its three start­ing outfielders, New York also has Shane Spencer, recovering from knee surgery, and Clay Bellinger, a backup for both 

Jeter's status still undetermined 
Torre said. "The gap is clos­
Associated Press 
ing." Although no final decision
TAMPA, Fla. Derek Jeter-played in about placing Jeter on the disabled list has been made,
another minor exhibition game Wednesday but didn't Torre continues to take a know if the New York 
conservative approach. 
Yankees would let him play · "It's going to be a tough 
on open­
choice," Torre said. "I tend 
ing day. to be overly cautious here. 
One day We can't make an emotional a f t e r decision. We'll see over the manager next few days." Joe Torre · Jeter. sidelined since said he March 16, picked up his run­w a s ning intensity Wednesday. "leaning" "I ran a little harder today toward than I did yesterday," Jeter
Jeter

placing said. "The way I look at it, the 2000 I'll be ready opening day. World Series MVP on the They can tell by what I do disabled list, Jeter went 1-whether or not they think for-4 for Triple-A Columbus I'm ready. We'll see hap­against pens." Syracuse. He Jeter,
"The way I look at it, I'll 
also was hit w h o by a pitch. be ready opening day." signed a After the $189 mil­Yankees lost lion, 10­
Derek Jeter 
7 -3 to the year con­
New York Yankees player
Cincinnati tract dur-Reds on 
ing the off­Wednesday 
s ea son, night, man-
knows he's ager Joe Torre said an MRI running out of time to play on Jeter's strained right on opening day. 
quadriceps showed improve­"If I don't run full out by ment and that shortstop Saturday, I can't play might play the field Friday in 
Monday," he said. "You don't a minor league game. 
go into a season running half "The MRI was better," speed." 
Castle Point Select Units Available for Next Semester 
~:•within Minutes of Campus=:• 
the infield and the outfield. -Renovated, spacious one and two "Other changes in the 
bedroom apartments, some with lofts. 
Yankees' lineup have created 

-Includes membership in the new
a crowd at certain positions that obviously required some 

Castle Point Racquet Club 
moves to reach a functional 

and Fitness Center.
25-man roster," said Hill's 

J 
J 
•,· 

g 

/ NOTRE DAME BASEBALL Saturdayvs. Seton Hall (2) 12 pm Sunday vs. Seton Hall 12 pm 




NOTRE DAME SOFTBALL Today vs. Western .Michiga,i 3:30pni Saturday vs. St. John's (2) 11 am 
Sunday vs. Seton Hall (2) 11 am 
Notre Dame Tennis 
Men -Today vs. Illinois 3 pm 
Women -Friday vs. Iowa 4 pm 
Sunda vs. William & M 11 am 
Friday, March 30, 2001 

The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NBA 

Hawks end 4-game losing streak, Bucks top Heat 
three field goal attempts and making shots tonight."
Associated Press 

failed to grab an offensive Cassell and Lindsay Hunter rebound. each scored 17 points for the
ATlANTA Bucks. Tim Thomas added 14

Jason Terry scored 28 points 

and Ray Allen 13.
and Nazr Mohammed added Bucks 104, Heat 96 
Hardaway scored 25 points
18 as the Atlanta Hawks beat Glenn Robinson doesn't sur­
for the Heat, who fell three
the Indiana Pacers 104-93 prise his teammates anymore. 
games behind the Bucks in the
Thursday night. Robinson scored 27 points, 
battle for the second-bestReggie Miller scored 24 some coming on incredible record in the Eastern
points to lead the Pacers, who shots, and rallied the 
Conference behind
entered the game tied with Milwaukee Bucks to victory 
Philadelphia. Milwaukee trailsBoston for the eighth and final over the Miami Heat. 
the 76ers by four games withplayoff spot in the Eastern "Give Glenn a lot of credit 
11 to play. Anthony MasonConference. Jalen Rose and tonight," Milwaukee's Sam scored 18 points and Grant
Jermaine O'Neal each scored Cassell said. "He made a lot of added 15 for Miami, which is
16 points for Indiana. tremendously big shots. He put 
0-2 since center Alonzo
Indiana, scheduled to play in us on his shoulders tonight in Mourning, who was diagnosed
Boston on Friday night, last the fourth quarter. He did with disease
led with 41.:~ seconds to go in what he does best -score." a kidney in 
October, returned to the line­
the third quarter after a 3-Robinson snapped a 92-all 
up. Mourning, who played 19
pointer by Miller from the tie with a short jumper in the 
minutes in Tuesday's home
right side of the top of the key lane with 2:42 left. After 
loss to Toronto, had eight
made it 74-72. Miami's Tim Hardaway hit two points and six rebounds in 19
Atlanta ended a four-game free throws and tied the game 
minutes against the Bucks.
losing streak. The Hawks were at 94, Robinson countered 
Miami coach Pat Riley
winless since beating the Los with another field goal to was 
disgusted by

Angeles Lakers on March 19 make it 96-94. 
his team's

and had lost 16 of their last 19 E r v i n games. Johnson clean­"/ had the hot hand performance. 
"Our game

The Pacers. coming off a ly blocked a tonight and I delivered 
is defense,"

110-102 win at Washington on dunk attempt 
for us.,. Riley said,
Tuesday, have lost eight of by Brian Grant "digging out
their last nine road games. and Cassell hit 
games,

Despite having the NBA's sec­a baseline Glenn Robinson 
rebounding

ond-best defense against 3-jumper before 
Milwaukee Bucks 
... you know,

pointers, Indiana allowed adding four 
87-81. They

Atlanta to shoot 4-for-5 from straight free 
scored 23

beyond the arc and 12-for-23 throws in the points in the last 51 minutes of
overall in the fourth quarter. final minute to help seal the the game. We're not going to
Terry scored 11 points on 5-win. 

win like that.
for-7 shooting in the fourth "I made some tough shots 
Miami led by 10 points in the
quarter. His 3-pointer with down the stretch and I thought 
first quarter before the Bucks3:15 remaining, immediately I got fouled on a couple of 
rallied behind the 3-point
following Cal Bowdler's block them," Robinson said. "I had 
shooting of reserve Lindsey
of Miller's running jumper in the hot hand tonight and I 
Hunter. Four 3-pointers by
the lane, gave the Hawks their delivered for us. Tomorrow it Hunter helped the Bucks to a
first double-digit lead. might be Sam or it might be 4 7 -42 lead. Milwaukee led 49­Toni Kukoc, who scored 10 Ray (Allen). 
48 at halftime, despite 1 7 
points on 4-for-15 shooting, hit "It was a big fourth quarter points by Hardaway.
a 3-pointer 29 seconds later to for all of us. We all struggled 
The lead changed hands 10give Atlanta a 101-87 lead. with our shots, but I was the 
times in the third quarter.
The Pacers missed their last only one with the good feel for Milwaukee led by a point, 73­

Bookstore Basketball 2001 
Captains' Meeting 
When: Monday, April 2nd 
5:30 P.M. 
Where: DeBartolo Room 101 
A representative from each Bookstore team should be there to pick up the brackets-and team rules. 
www.nd.eduf,...,bkstr 
72, after three. 
The Heat got eight straight points from Eddie House and led by as many as six points in the final quarter before Robinson took control. 
"The Dog (Robinson) made some unbelievably tough shots." Milwaukee coach George Karl said...Defensively, down the stretch, we made some huge stops. This was a huge win because now we have the tiebreaker on Miami. We don't win the rebounding­free throw battle often, but tonight we did." 
Celitcs 106, Bulls 104 
Antoine Walker had a triple­double, Paul Pierce scored a game-high 24 points and the Boston Celtics won their fourth straight, beating Chicago Thursday night. 
Chicago, which trailed by as many as 13 in the fourth quar­ter, had the ball in the final seconds with a chance to tie, but Ron Mercer missed an off­balance 3-pointer as time expired. 
Walker had 23 points, 11 rebounds and 11 assists for his fourth triple-double of the sea­son and ninth of his career. He shot 5-for-12 from 3-point range and had did not have a turnover in 40 minutes. 
Milt Palacio added a career­high 19 points for Boston (32­38). which took sole posses­sion of the eighth and final playoff spot in the Eastern Conference after Indiana lost to Atlanta. 
The Bulls, who have lost 11 of 12, were led by Elton Brand's 22 points. 
A pair of 3-pointers by Pierce helped the Celtics to a quick 13-4 lead. 
Boston led until Fred Hoiberg hit a jumper with 6:39 left in the half to put the Bulls up 35-34. 
Steve Goodrich made a layup with 1:03 left to give Chicago its largest first-half lead, 54­49. 
The Celtics got within one point on Vitaly Potapenko's jumper and led at halftime 57­56 after a pair of free throws by Palacio with .3 seconds left. 
Walker scored 11 in a 14-1 Boston run in the third quar­ter. as the Celtics opened an 83-70 lead with 4:29 left. The Celtics led by nine after three. 
Chicago closed within three points, 103-100, on Mercer's tip-in with 1:09 left. 
Hoiberg made a pair of free throws and cut the Bulls' deficit to one with 28 seconds left. 
Palacio converted two free throws with 18 seconds left to give Boston a 105-102 advan­tage. Walker then forced a 
Brand turnover with 17  sec­ 
onds to go.  
Bryant Stith made  a  free  

throw and Mercer, who scored 17, hit a jumper with 5. 7 sec­onds left to make it 106-104. 
Wizards 116, Warriors 100 
Washington Wizards coach Leonard Hamilton finally turned Richard Hamilton loose. 
Hamilton responded with a career-high 41 points as the Wizards beat Golden State 116-100. 
"I just go out there and try to have fun," Hamilton said. "I give a lot of credit to my team­mates for really pushing the ball and giving me opportuni­
ties. I know that I definitely 
have to step up with Mitch 
Richmond and Chris Whitney 
both out with injuries. 
"The more I'm out there, the 
more I'm learning. Now, I'm 
just starting to feel more 
relaxed." 
Hamilton, a second-ye~r 
guard from Connecticut, 
became the first Wizard to 
score 40 points in two games 
in a season since Juwan 
Howard in April 1996. 
Antawn Jamison, who scored 
nine of Golden State's first 21 
points and finished with 31, 
gave the Warriors a 25-17 
lead on a jumper with 2:31 left 
in the first quarter. 
Erick Dampier's back-to­
back layups stretched Golden 
State's lead to 10 points. 31­
21, with 41 seconds remaining 
in the period. 
Then, the Warriors relaxed. 
"I thought we started the 
game out pretty good," Golden 
State coach Dave Cowens said. 
"Then they just started coming 
at us like we weren't even 
there." 
The Wizards erased a 10­
point deficit with a 26-3 run 
early in the second quarter for 
a 47-39 lead with 5:41 
remaining in the half. 
Consecutive 3-pointers and a 
driving layup by Courtney 
Alexander gave Washington a 
52-41 lead. 
"Hamilton got hot and Alexander got hot, and they just started doing what they do and we had nobody to stay with them," Cowens said. "We can't allow people to have sec­ond quarters like we did tonight. That was atrocious." 
Reserve point guard David Vanterpool scored a career• high 21 points on 7-for-9 shooting for the Wizards, and rookie Alexander had 24 points. Jahidi White added 21 points and 16 rebounds. 
Mookie Blaylock scored 18 points and Corie Blount 11 for the Warriors, who lost their seventh consecutive road game. 
Golden State, which is the top rebounding team in the league, was outrebounded by Washington 51-32. 
Hamilton, who scored 21 points in the first half, punctu­ated the Wizards' highest­scoring half of the season with a three-point play and a layup for a 63-53 halftime lead. 
The Wizards scored a sea­son-high 39 points in the sec­ond quarter, surpassing the 35 they scored against New Jersey on March 10. 
Washington led by as many as 13 points three times in the third quarter. Golden State pulled to 94-88 on a layup by Dampier with 9:06 remaining but never got closer. 
Suns 90, Rockets 85 
Jason Kidd scored a career high 43 points, including 16 of Phoenix's last 17 points, as the Suns rallied past the Houston Rockets. 
Kidd shot 16-for-34 from the field and 6-for-8 from the line as the Suns won their sixth straight and beat the Rockets for the 13th time in 18 games. 
Hakeem Olajuwon, playing in his second game since recovering from a blood disor­der, led Houston with 20 points and 11 rebounds. 
Houston led 64-52 with 9:32 left in the third quarter, but couldn't hold the lead. 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, March 30, 2001 
TRACK AND FIELD 

Track teams split to compete at Stanford, ASU and Purdue 

By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Associate Sports Editor 
The snow has almost disap­peared from the infield of the track. The temperature is slowly but steadily rising. The 

I \ 
sun is poking through the

I \ 
\ 
clouds more and more each 


; I . \ day. It can only mean one thing. It's time for the outdoor track season to start. After a two-month long indoor season, both the mens' and womens' track teams will kick off the outdoor season tomorrow at meets across the nation. A small group of distance runners will be traveling to California to compete in the Stanford Invitational, while a number of middle-distance athletes and sprinters will join several field event athletes at the Arizona State Invitational. The rest of the team will head to West Lafayette to compete in the Purdue Invitational. The Irish are splitting up the team this way to maximize the competition for their ath­letes. For example, the long­distance runners will be corn­peting against a slew of national-class runners at Stanford in what may be an early-season preview of the outdoor NCAA championship meet later this summer. Ryan Shay headlines the list of five Irish athletes who will be competing at Stanford. Shay, who placed ninth in the NCAA indoor championships three weeks ago, will be com­peting for the first time this season in his specialty event, the 10,000-meter run. At last year's Olympic Trials, Shay placed 10th and was the only runner to finish who had col­lege eligibility remaining, making him a favorite to cap­ture the NCAA outdoor title this year. The Irish men will also be sending long-distance special­

I ists Todd Mobley and Sean 
:I) ~ McManus. The top women runners, Jennifer Handley 
I 
' J and Chrissy Kuenster, will
I 
join them. 

'
p
i 
Liz Grow headlines the list 

I I 
of female athletes heading to 

I 
I Arizona State. Grow placed 
I eighth in the 400-rneter dash at the NCAA indoor champi­onships and shifts her focus to qualifying for the outdoor national championships Saturday. Although she failed to defend her 400-meter indoor Big East title last month, she still can win her second consecutive outdoor Big East title in one month. 

But Grow is not the only top sprinter heading to Arizona State. She will be joined by a trio of young, talented run­ners: Ayesha Boyd, Kristen 
li 
I 
I 


Dodd, and Kymia Love. The foursome have set their sights on qualifying for the outdoor national championships in the 4x400-rneter relay. They missed making the indoor championships by a mere three-hundredths of a second. 
Tarneisha King. J arnie Volkmer, and Jill Vanweelden will represent the Irish in the field events. King will be entered in the long jump and may compete in the 100­rneter hurdles as well. Meanwhile, Volkmer and Vanweelden will be entered in the pole vault. Volkmer may also compete in the triple jump as well. 
Freshman Megan Johnson, who has proven herself capa­ble in the mile run during the indoor season, will shift to the slightly shorter 1,500-meter run beginning Saturday. 
On the mens' side, the Irish will send a quality group of sprinters to compete at Arizona State. Torn Gilbert and Travis Davey will defi­nitely compete in their best event, the 100-meter dash. Freshman sensation James Bracken, who surprised Irish coaches in the indoor season with his success in the 400­rneter dash, will probably stay in the 400 for Saturday's meet. 
Javelin specialists Mike Magadin and Matt O'Brien will compete in their first event of the season this week­end. O'Brien was the top javelin specialist for the Irish last spring, while Magadin, who competed in six meets last year, showed consider­able promise by placing fifth or better five times. 
Andrew Cooper, the reign­ing Big East indoor high jump champion, will also kick off his outdoor season at Arizona State. Cooper, who surprised many people with his victory in the Big East championships a month ago, will be the only high jumper competing for the Irish. 
Freshman Godwin Mbagwu will probably compete in the long jump and the triple jump at Arizona State. He had his best performance in his first collegiate meet, narrowly missing the NCAA provisional cut, but couldn't break his personal best the rest of the season. 
Middle-distance specialists Sean Zanderson and Kevin Sornak will also be competing in Arizona this weekend. 
The rest of both teams will travel to West Lafayette to compete in the Purdue Invitational on Saturday. The Arizona State Invitational begins today and continues through Saturday. while the Stanford Invitational takes place on Saturday only. 


We do Mondays like no place else. Enjoy a double order of fajifas (enous}l for Mo) for jusf $111* 




M:lSlf.AW.AK.A 
4810 Grape Road 
219.271.1 3 30 

"'Offer valid every Monday. 11 a.m -dose. 
Sea un SalvaCorazones 
r=ebrero_ es el Mes Del Corazon. 
=or more information, contact your local American Heart Association 
L.., 


Friday, March 30, 2001 page 21
The Observer . SPORTS 
TENNIS
High school players live up to hype 
Associated Press 
DURHAM, N.C. 
Eddy Curry's nickname is 'Baby Shaq.' He lived up to it in the McDonald's All American high school game. 
The 6-foot-11, 290-pound Curry had 28 points and David Lee added 21 as the West ral­lied from a 15-point deficit to beat the East 131-125 Wednesday night. 
The East led 75-60 at halftime after making 31-of-63 shots; but Curry scored eight points during a 20-6 West run late in the third quarter. Curry gave the West its first lead at 96-94 on a dunk with 1 :06 left in the third. 
Curry, who has committed to DePaul but is still considering a jump to the NBA, was 12-for-21 from the field. He also had eight rebounds and four blocks. 
"I can't say that Eddy Curry came up big, because Eddy Curry was big when he was born, but the guy played like a giant," West coach Robert Hughes said. "It surprises me that he has that much strength, he's that agile and plays, with­out getting fouled, with a tiny bit of hostility." 
Memphis recruit Daj uan Wagner, who became the first son of a former McDonald's All American to play in the game, led the East with 25 points. His father, former NBA player Milt 


The Observer Sports department need§ copy etlitpr~...·..,~,.. Call The ()f;;;r~~;"~f6J'i:fj43­
for more information. 

her 
·n0RMs.., .. ) 


Francesco's Restamant
sM~ius··· •······.•··•···· 

1213 Lincolnway West 
Mishnab, Indiana 
256-l44t 
•. ··•· i·•··· ..··•·······• •. 'i . .... < 
·····••· FXSf.r(t 

. ~)if1~1iij,iiiilitiiiiij1
,i:.atE~ii11111aia 
lloaday •Thanday S:00 ·9:10 
Friday I Satarday ~•11 :00 
·••••••smtlJl?§~s..•#.1••.Gijt?tC~•t.i~it2~R~i••fl'.lJ>~~i~•••:•••i•••••••·•••••••••• Sanday 11.,00 •9:00 
·····•····.. z,2••••""•••s1.~>••·•·•••>·•···••·••· 
Wagner, played in the 1981 game with Michael Jordan. 
The first quarter featured sounds rarely heard at all-star games -groans. 
The highlight-reel dunks and no-look passes typical of this game were replaced by both teams setting up in halfcourt offenses. 
The East's Rashaad Carruth actually called out a play on the first possession of the game and one fan asked if the players were allowed to dunk late in the first quarter. 
The teams combined to miss eight straight shots to open the game and the first point didn't come until 1:30 in, when Curry hit a free throw. 
The first dunk didn't come until the West's Josh Childress broke free underneath with 15 seconds left in the first quarter, but teammate Kelvin Torbert followed with a rebound slam at the buzzer and the pace picked up from there. 
The East made 29 of 49 shots in the second half while the West shot 36 percent, including 3-for-16 from 3-point range. 
"Pretty doesn't win basketball games," Hughes said. "You have to get your fingernails dirty." 
Torbert, who's headed to Michigan State, had 21 points. 
The game featured 24 of the top high school seniors in the country chosen by a seven-member selection committee and an advisory panel of scouts and media members. 
Three players -Ousmane Cisse, DcSagana Diop and Wayne Simien -were hurt and didn't play. Tyson Chandler. who is considering a jump to the NBA, did not make the trip. 
North Carolina recruit Jawad Williams had a tough first game at Cameron Indoor Stadium. He was booed loudly by the Duke fans during introductions, then took an inadvertent elbow and broke his nose midway through the third period. 
Williams, who finished with 11 points for the West, had one of the best dunks of the night, taking a rebound with one hand and windmilling it down just before he was hurt. 
"I felt bad for him," said Duke recruit Daniel Ewing, who roomed with Willliams this week. "He hurt his nose earlier in the week and I was kind of joking with him that it might be broke. It's just a freak accident that happened to him." 
Future Florida teammates Lee, James White and Kwame Brown combined for 57 points. White had 19 and Brown 17 for the East. Lee was 9-for-13 and had 13 rebounds. 
Julius Hodge, who will attend North Carolina State, had 17 points for the East. 
Williams avenges prior def eat, beats Hingis 
Associated Press 
KEY BISCAYNE, Fla. 

Venus Williams is 6•foot-1 and looked even taller Thursday, playing high-wire tennis and rising above the debate about fixed matches and racist fans to defeat her most irksome rival. 
Williams gambled by swing­ing all•out on shot after shot, and the strategy worked. She controlled the rallies, kept defending champion Martina Hingis on the defensive and won 6-3, 7-6 (6) in the semifi­nals at the Ericsson Open. 
"That is my game, to hit the ball," Williams said. "Any time that I try to play other­wise, I become an average player." 
She avenged the most lop­sided loss of her career, a 6­1, 6-1 drubbing against Hingis at the Australian Open semifinals in January. 
In Saturday's final, Williams will bid for her third Key Biscayne title against the win­ner of Friday's match 
between  No.  4  Jennifer  
Capriati and  No.  7  Elena  
Dementieva.  

No. 8 Pat Rafter beat Roger Federer 6-3, 6-1 in 58 min­utes and will next play the winner of the quarterfinal match to be completed Friday between No. 3 Andre Agassi and Ivan Ljubicic. It was sus­pended because of rain with Agassi trailing 3-1. 
Controversy engulfed the Williams family following Venus' withdrawal from the Indian Wells semifinal against her sister Serena on March 
15. There was speculation she ducked the match, and when the crowd booed the family, her father, Richard, said the jeers were racially motivated. 
The Slovakia-born Hingis discounted his alJegation as "nonsense," saying she could counter with a charge of racism against crowds in the United States because they're pro-American. 
Wt would Hkt to iaform our pmm tbat dut to tilt annal of aPranetsco'• ,anddaagbtcr T.lat mtatrut will llt cloHd&om Mardi 18 thn lpril 8. 
We batt fcmrardtd our phoat to Amy -
Asailtalt..,home 
IO that ft will not mill any ofyoar ramafioaL 
Yoa m readlhu dariDf tht day OWSB 237-6580 or CTtmlfl 211..0812 ii fti1. ow ttplar halineupbont1%-14-ff. 
Wt a,olop fer any bicomnimct that thia may CUit oar patzou. 
matches but otherwise tried 
to stay out of the debate. 
"For me it's not really very difficult, because in my opin­ion all these things going on around me are not very important," she said. "Tennis is not all and everything for me, so I really have been able to keep my game under con­trol." 
Playing with a bandage on each knee. the third-seeded Williams showed no effects of the knee tendinitis that she cited for her withdrawal at Indian Wells. She took the offensive from the start and hit 51 winners but also 51 unforced errors, numbers that even she found startling. 
"Oh my God. Really?" Williams said. "Maybe I need to go to an 11-step program for unforced errors." 
Her father, watching from the front row, liked his daughter's zealous play. When she took a big swing at an easy backhand and slammed it into the net. they grinned at each other. 
"It was kind of weird," Hingis said. "She didn't really give me too much timing. It was like she hit a winner. and then she made a stupid mis­take." 
Hingis had distractions of her own: She's expected to testify Monday in the Miami trial of a man charged with stalking her at last year's tournament. 
As for the more mundane matter of tennis rankings, Williams is gaining on Hingis, who has been No. 1 for 183 weeks. Next week Williams will climb from third to sec­ond for thr. first time, moving ahead of Lindsay Davenport. 
"She always comes up with some great tournaments," Hingis said. "So the other question is, can she keep it up? Can her body keep it up? You see all the bandages, like the wrist and legs, and last week she retired, so you don't know." 
Williams said she looks for­ward to taking April off but expects to be ready for the final. 
'Tm OK." she said. "If I was hurting too much, then I wouldn't play." 
With the help of a fast start, she needed only two sets against Hingis, who let a game point slip away in each of the first three games and fell behind 4-0. There were 56 points played before Hingis finally won a game, and she double faulted to lose the first set. 
The second set was tighter. but Hingis missed a chance to serve it out at 5-4. She held a set point at 6-5 in the tiebreaker, but Williams smacked overhead and fore­hand winners for a 7-6 lead. then closed out the victory when Hingis pushed a back­hand wide. 
Williams extended her win­ning streak on Key Biscayne to 17 matches. She won the tournament in 1998 and 1999, then was sidelined last year by wrist tendinitis. 
"Jf I could play every tour­nament like I do the Ericsson," she said, ''I'd be undefeated." 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, March 30, 20( _ 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Irish return home to face William and Mary, Iowa 

By STEVE KEPPEL 
Sports Writer 
It's been road trip after road trip for the women's tennis team in the past weeks, and they are finally returning home this weekend to take on Iowa and William and Mary. Notre Dame returns to the Courtney Tennis Center with a 15-4 record, as well as a num­ber seven ranking. The Irish had won nine of their last 10 before a disappointing loss to 9th ranked Tennessee last Sunday. Previously on a roll, the Irish had won five in a row before the 6-1 defeat by the Volunteers. 
"Naturally, we were disap­
pointed, but after a loss we are usually all the more ready to come out and do well," said junior Nina Vaughan. 
The Irish have been working hard this week and are very determined to win the rest of their matches and get a high seed in the NCAA tournament. 
"I feel sorry for Iowa and 

. William and Mary," said Becky Varnum. "It was a hard loss against Tennessee, but it inspired us to really work hard. The last three days have been hard workouts to get us match tough," said Varnum. "Every time we go out on the court [for practice], we are very intense and work very hard," added Vaughan. First up for the Irish are the 
Hawkeyes of Iowa, who are 7­5 and 2-2 in the Big Ten. The no. 36 Hawkeyes are 4-4 on the road this season and are lead by the Bulgarian duo of Toni Neykova and Deni Alexandrova. The Irish hold a 5-1 advantage over the Hawkeyes with their only loss coming in the 1999 NCAA tournament. 
"We definitely have memo­ries against Iowa," said Vaughan referring to the 1999 loss. "This is a big weekend. We're ready." 
"We're definitely going to be out to get them," said Varnum. "Psychologically. Iowa is tough, and we will fight hard against them, after a loss or not." 

On Sunday, the Irish women will go against a determined William and Mary team. William and Mary is 6-7 com­ing off a win over Richmond and a loss to second ranked Duke last weekend. The 42nd ranked Tribe is lead by senior standout Lindsay Sullivan, who is one win away from breaking into the school's top ten wins list. Sullivan could give recently struggling Michelle Dasso a run for her money this weekend at the number one singles spot. 
"They are definitely a good team capable of playing above their rank William and Mary always plays well. We are expecting to have a really good match with them," said Varnum. "Their whole team is pretty solid." 
This weekend marks the first time in three weeks that the Irish have played at home. They currently have a 10-3 record on the road this spring but have only one loss at the comfortable confines of the Courtney Center. 
"It's been tough playing on the road all the time." said Varnum. "We are really excit­ed to play at home Every time we get a home match it seems a little special to us and hope­fully we will get some great support from the fans this weekend." 


NCAA BASKETBALL 
Cincinatti basketball coach asks for contract extension 
to stay at Cincinnati. He said remain as Cincinnati's basket­"It's crazy. And all that does salary of $150,000. After next Associated Press 
he is weary ·or the annual ball coach." is let other people say, 'He's season, he can collect an rumors that he might leave, Last year, Huggins turned not going to be there,' which annuity expected to be worthCINCINNATI 
and said they hurt his efforts down an opportunity to coach is ridiculous." more than $1 million. 
Bob Huggins, who has built 

to recruit players. the NBA's Los Angeles Goin said Huggins' request He receives an additional University of Cincinnati bas­"I've been here for 12 years, Clippers. On Sunday, a column to discuss a contract exten­$215,000 from radio, televi­
ketball into the school's fea­

and every year people have in the Akron Beacon Journal sion came during a conversa-sion. public relations and
tured athletic program and 

been killing us (in recruiting) mentioned t i o n speaking activities.
taken the team to the NCAA 

saying I'm not going to be Huggins as Wednesday. Conference USA regular-sea­
"I've been here for I 2 years
Tournament for 10 consecu­

here the next year," Huggins a candidate Huggins son title ($10,000). for defeat­
tive years, wants a contract and every year people have 
told The Cincinnati Enquirer to coach didn't ing three Top 25 teamsextension. He asked athletics 
on Wednesday. t h e been killing us [in recruit­specifically ($30,000} and for advancing
director Bob Goin on 

Huggins noted that he Cleveland call a meet­to the NCAA Tournament's
ing] saying I'm not going to
Wednesday if they could dis­

signed a 10-year contract with Cavaliers ing to dis­field of 16 teams {$55,000).
cuss extending Huggins' be here next year."
the university in 1995. should cuss the That $460,000 package doescoaching contract. They are to 
"I am optimistic that we will c o a c h subject. not include money from sum­
talk after the spring recruiting 

be able to work out the details R a n d y Huggins' mer camps or from his deal
Bob Huggins
period ends. Huggins, 47, who 

that will have him coach the Wittman contract with Nike, the athletic shoe-...
is mentioned annually as a Cincinatti head coach
UC basketball team for years not return. r u n s maker.
possible candidate for NBA 

to come," Goin said. "'It is my "No one's through In 12 seasons at Cincinnati,coaching jobs, said he wants 
intention that Bob Huggins talked to me," Huggins said. June 30, 2005, with a base Huggins' teams are 301-96. 
NIT 

-¦ • • • • • ¦-¦ .,

l • •
! 
Peterson and Tulsa 

I I 
win NIT championship • 
have all left the cradle of 

I I ¦ 
Associated Press 

coaches in the past 16 years for ¦ • NEW YORK better jobs, with Richardson I Self Lock Storageand Smith winning national
If Buzz Peterson's tenure at 

titles after their stints with the New Facility I
Tulsa only lasts one season, he 14 
Golden Hurricane. ¦ ¦
made sure it would be a suc­lf1t.,s(Jklltl
Peterson, who spent the pre­cessful one. 
vious four seasons as the head 

1
Marcus Hill scored 24 points 
I

man at Appalachian State, is at l(e;,Pad 'll4.Nce 
as the Golden Hurricane won 

the NIT championship for their the top of Tennessee's wish list ¦ ace~ •and could interview for the '-"'Ss
first-year coach, beating 

Alabama 79-60 Thursday night. Volunteers' opening as early as L . .J
¦ -• ¦-¦-¦ • • ¦ -•
this weekend. 
Kevin Johnson added 16 

QUALITY Service • Student Di o nts • Gift Certificates • Guaranteed Satisfaction!
points, including two baskets in If he gets the job, he will an 11-0 run that put the Golden leave a talented team behind, Hurricane (26-11) up 59-40 with seven of its top nine play­
rvoTED#f 

with 9:28 to play. ers returning. Hill, one of the For Your Best Tan Ever!
by people

After nearly blowing a 20-few seniors on the team, ended 
I whoknow Get a Fun Tan! I
point lead and a pair of 18-his career with a school-record 
I tanning!

. point advantages earlier in the 100 wins . I tournament, Tulsa led Alabama Greg Harrington scored 11 

~ I
(25-11} by at least eight points points and Charlie Davis added M 
for the final 24:36 to win its a season-high 10 for the Golden ~ I 
(I)

second NIT title. Hurricane. 
The previous championship Tulsa used its superior quick­~I came 20 years ago, when the ness to frustrate Alabama, g I Golden Hurricane beat deflecting passes and pressur­~ Syracuse 86-84 in overtime in ing the ball constantly. 
l I

Nolan Richardson's first year as · The Tide shot only 33 percent 
coach. for the game compared to 53 
Peterson, who tied percent for the Golden Richardson's school record for Hurricane. wins in his first year, also The Golden Hurricane held 
Your choice! Either 10 tanning bed sessions forjust $35
might follow a tradition started Alabama's leading scorer, Rod! by the Arkansas coach, turning OR an entire Month of bed tanning for only $40. I 
-., Grizzard, scoreless for the first success at Tulsa into a big-time 33 minutes. Grizzard had his AND when you oring in this coupon get 25% off our wide selection of tanning lotions! 

I
college coaching job. 
shot blocked when he went 

272•7653 NEW University Location State Road 23 & Ironwood
Richardson, Tubby Smith, inside and threw up airballs. I 
Steve Hobinson and Bill Self 

from 3-point range. ~6~6:: _c=n:.o::r~e =d~K_:te~ 2~-2~0':_So~h~d~a~lr~n~ l~n:_ood_ J 





L, 
Friday, March 30, 2001 page 23
The Observer . SPORTS 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Belles look to extend winning streak against Aquinas 
By KATIE McVOY fusociate Sports Editor 
The Saint Mary's tennis team is looking to extend its winning streak to seven matches as it takes on Aquinas College and MIAA competition Adrian College on Saturday. 
The Belles recently wrapped up a tough victory over Div. I Valaparaiso on Wednesday and hope that the confidence from that win will carry them through this \veekend. 
"\Ve'll be very confident 

because Valpo was Div. I and [Aquinas and Adrian] are Div. III." team co-captain Annie Knish said. "We have beaten both teams in years before and we are expecting to do well against those teams." 
The 5-0 Belles will compete in their first MIAA match of the season at 9 a.m. on Saturday against the Bulldogs of Adrian College. The 0-2 Bulldogs come into the match with less experience then the Belles, who spent a week in Arizona over Spring Break preparing for the season. 
Saint Mary's has just begun outdoor practices in South Bend, due to the weather, and they are looking forward to starting conference play. Last season they finished with a conference record of 5-2. 
"Right now we're undefeat­ed, so we're feeling pretty good about the season and we're getting used to practicing out­side," Knish said. "We're look­ing forward to playing in the conference, especially Hope, Calvin and Albion." 
Saint Mary's also sports a better record than the Aquinas Saints, who will enter Saturdays match with a record of 4-2. Aquinas' two losses came at the hands of Ferris State and Embry-Riddle in late February and early March. 
Saturday could provide some solid doubles play, as several of Aquinas' wins have come from wins by all three doubles teams. Head coach Dee Stevenson attributed Wednesday's win to some solid doubles play by his Belles. 
"We have good doubles teams," he said. Knish will play No. 1 singles followed by Natalie Cook, Jeannie Knish, Kaitlin Cu.tier, Kris Spriggle and Elisa Ryan at 2,3,4.5 and 6 singles respectively. 
Knish and Cook will team up for No. 1 doubles, Jeannie Knish and Cutler for No. 2 sin­gles, and Ryan and sophomore Trisha Jones will round off the Saint Mary's roster. 
Action kicks off at 9 a.n1. out­side of Angela Athletic Facility, weather permitting. Should rain be a factor, the match will probably be moved to indoor facilities at Notre Dame. 
WOMEN'S CREW 

Irish beat Creighton, prep for MSU 
By JEFF BALTRUZAK 
Assistant Sports Editor 
The women's rowing team will continue its season this weekend, taking on Michigan State on the Grand River in East Lansing, Mich., on Saturday before returning to their home course in Mishawaka on Sunday to face Dayton. 
The Irish are coming off a sound defeat of Creighton last Sunday. The Irish first and second varsity eights, as well as the first novice boat competed against the Bluejay's first varsi­ty boat. 


The race location had to be changed from an area near Prickett Park in Mishawaka to a more sheltered stretch of river near the Notre Dame boathouse due to brutal condi­tions, with 15 mph winds com­
bined with freezing  tempera­ 
tures.  
Because  of  the  location  

change, the race was a head­style competition, with stag­gered boat starts. The Notre Dame first varsity boat of Katherine Burnett, Casey Buckstaff, Becky Luckett, Diane 
SORRY IT'S LATE, BUT WE WANTED TO DO SOMETHING. REAL NICE! 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY ALLISON HENISEY 
-3B 

INTERESTED IN SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, AND ETHICAL QUESTIONS? 
Ethical issues involving technology assessment, bioethics, human genetics, environmental management, computer technology, engineering, and architectural design constantly raise new and difficult dilemmas for society. 
To explore these issues in depth, investigate the unique Notre Dame Science, Technology, and Values Program {STV). This is an academic Minor requiring 15 credit hours that may be taken in conjunction with any major. Within the STV Program, you may develop specific emphases on STV issues in relation to Business; Environmental Studies; Biomedical Ethics; Philosophy and Theology; History and Philosophy of Science; and Government and Public Policy. 
Adescription of course offerings for FALL 2001 may be obtained at 346 O'Shaughnessy, or you can visit our website at http://www.nd.edu/...stv. Call 631-5015 for apersonal appointment. 
Price, Ann Marie Dillhoff, Michelle Olsgard. Ashlee Warren and captain coxswain Clare Bula ran the 1500 meter course in 5:22 to win the race. 
The second varsity Irish boat coxed by Erin Kiernicki con­taining Katie Besson, Kerri Murphy, Erica Drennen, Courtney Mercer, Melissa Alberding, Megan Feely, Anne Starks and Leah Ashe placed second at 5:35. 
Creighton was next at 5:50, followed closely by the Notre Dame's first novice boat five seconds behind. 
The Irish had previously opened the season over spring break with a match race with Tennessee in Knoxville on Mar. 17. 
After training all week in on Lake Loudin, the Irish domi­nated the first varsity eight race, beating Tennessee by 15 seconds on the 2000-meter course head to head. 
Notre Dame ended up sweep­ing Tennessee, including a var­sity four race where the Irish won by 11 seconds, and three novice races. 


NCAA BASKETBALL 
Amaker takes reins 
of Michigan hoops 
Associated Press 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 

Tommy Amaker took charge 
of Michigan's hobbling basket­
ball program on Thursday, 
with hopes that his youthful 
enthusiasm and recruiting 
savvy can revive the 
Wolverines' championship 
ways. 
"This is a program that 
stands for excellence," the 35­
year-old Amaker said. "This is 
everything you can ask for in 
the collegiate environment." 
'Tm honored to be able to 
call myself the University of 
Michigan head basketball 
coach." 
Amaker agreed to a multi­
year contract with Michigan, 
according to a news release 
handed out before a sched­
uled news conference. 
Details on Amaker's con­
tract were not immediately 
released. Reports earlier 
Thursday said Amaker would 
receive a guaranteed contract 
of $500,000-$600,000 per 
year and. with incentives, 
could earn as much as 
$900,000 per season. 
Michigan had contacted 
Rick Pitino about its opening, 
but he chose to coach at 
Louisville. 
Amaker replaces Brian Ellerbe, who was fired two weeks ago after posting a 62­60 record in four seasons, 
RecSports has openings for this summer and the 2001-2002 academic year in the following positions: 
~tuden, ~upervi~or~ front De~k'~upervi~or~ fitne~~ l!oom ~upervi~or~ l~~ue l!oom ~upervi~or~ Lifeguard~ 
WWW ~upport ~tudent 
Any one who is interested in applying for these positions should stop by the RecSports office and fill out on applica­tion. Office hours are 8:00-12:00 & 1 :00-5:00. 631-5100. 
including a 25-9 mark his first 
year. The Wolverines were 
12-19, 15-14 and 10-18 the 
past three seasons and didn't 
finish better than eighth in the 
Big Ten. 
Amaker, who will turn 36 in 

June. was 68-55 in four sea­
sons at Seton Hall. The former 
Duke star led the Pirates to 
four postseason appearances, 
the highlight being a surpris­
ing trip to the round of 16 in 
last year's NCAA Tournament. 
In talking about the 

Michigan team, Amaker said: 
"We're going to talk about 
being passionate in our pro­
gram.... We're always going 
to be prepared. In everything 
we do, we're going to be hon­
est with one another. 
"We're going to be 

Michigan." 
Michigan's assistant coaches 

were not fired along with 
Ellerbe, but it will be up to the 
next coach whether they will 
be retained. 
Terence Greene, one of the 

three assistants. had positive 
things to say about Amaker on 
\t\lednesday. 
"He's one of the brightest young minds in the business," Greene said. "He's a great recruiter and he relates well with people. I played against him when I was at DePaul and he was at Duke and he's been a first-class guy ever since I met him." 
Michigan State coach Tom Izzo has known Amaker since they were both assistant coaches recruiting NBA star Chris Webber, who went to Michigan in 1991. 
"I think it's a great hire. He's a good recruiter and a good coach, who relates well with people," Izzo said. 
Izzo believes Amaker will help make the Wolverines competitive enough for the Michigan State-Michigan rivalry to be one of the best in college basketball, making it comparable to Duke and North Carolina's rivalry. 
"That's what it's all about," Izzo said. 
Seton Hall was ranked as high as No. 7 early in the sea­son, but the team fell apart down the stretch and didn't qualify for the Big East post­season tournament until it beat Connecticut in its regular season finale. 
The Pirates finished 16-15 

'ffi 
lH 

Stadium on the heels of an 

;-;;;:;.:=:=::;;;;;;=:=:=:=:;;;;;;;=:=:;;:;;:;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;:;;;;;:;;:;;;;;;;;;;;::;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;::;;;;;;;;::;;;;;;;;;;;=:;;;;;;::;;;;;;;;::;;:=, 
I• I 
~~~~iroe;!~:t;Jn~:~:~i~~. ---===--c-=----G-&-===A===N===G==L===IN==G===--;:~. ECDC Reg1·strati·on
(5-18). The Pirates sport a ASTIN 

l!I page 24 ! : ) \ I, ' 
) ' 
j . Baseball 
Friday, March 30, 2001 

WOMEN'S GOLF . 
Irish look to improve at weekend invitational 
l:/
h 
li 
\, 
' 
( 
L
), 
\ 
;,,~
\i I \ 
;\ 
\'
\,1 l:;1 
11 .,., 
' ~-: 
\ 
I 
i'I) 
'f' 
I
: \:,\t 
I • 
~ 
I i 
:tl 
; \ \ 
: I \ {1\{ 
) 
}· 

5-2 record in Big East play, 
Pittsburgh and
with multiple victoriesVillanova.over 
The Irish are looking to improve their record in Big .East play,heartbreakershaving droppedto
two 
Virginia Tech last weeke!1d 
in Blacksburg, _Va, while 
p Oun ding pitts burgh at
Pittburgh. The Hokies twice overcame 2 run deficits in the final inning to secure
victory. . With their first home Big East series just 24 hours 
away, the Irish know Seton 
Hall won't be a walk in the 
park. 
"Seton Hall usually has a 
strong team," said O'Toole. 
The Observer . SPORTS 
MEN'S GOLF 

Ratay, Kent lead team to Johnny Ray Invite 
continued from page 28 
normally consisted of single runs, not offensive break­outs. 
"I don't think we've been aggressive enough," said catcher Paul 0'.Toole. "We've had our chances, and we haven't taken 
advantage of them." 
Part of the reason for the offense's slow start lies with Notre Dame's inconsiStent production across the order. While some hitters like freshman Steve Sollmann, sophomore Brian Stavisky, and senior Andrew Bushey have been red hot this season, both hitting over .345, others like senior shortstop Alec Porzel and O'Toole have struggled at the plate thus far, hitting .191 and .239 respectively. 
The trials at the plate have put pressure on the hitters to produce. "It's not said, but [the pressure] is 
something that's going on for all the hitters,t' said O'Toole. "We're the only part of the team that's lag­ging right now, and we want to go out and prove we can score runs, and take the pressure off the pitch­ers to pitch shutouts or one-
run games." 
Seton Hall offers an opportunity for the Irish to gain some confidence at the plate against a pitching staff that has lost games, not won them, this season. 
This weekend the Irish pitching staff faces a Seton Hall squad that averages seven runs a game, but that figure is misleading. The Pirates scored 18 runs on little-known Manhattan College, and 16 runs on 
even more obscure Long Island University. They have yet to face a 
team as well-armed as the Irish, with pitchers like starters Aaron Heilman, 
a nd
and Danny Tamayo reliever Matt Laird, all who have ERAs under two. The Irish (17-4-1) enter the weekend on a custom­
ary high note; having  dis­ 
mantled  Toledo  on  
Wednesday  6-l  ·  The  

encouraging result of the game was the Irish's production at the I • h t rter
p ate, w1 t every s a getting a hit on the road to a 14-hit performance. 
Seton Hall. on the other hand, comes to Frank Eck 


By KEVIN BERCH OU 
Sports Writer 
In Augusta, it's signified by azaleas in full bloom and the sports masters at their best; while in South Bend, it's intro­duced by 40 degree tempera­tures and college's young guns trying to secure a spot in the NCAA Tournament they've long been shut out of. 
Either way, it is the arrival of golf season, and this year the Notre Dame men's team hopes it's finally time inch its way back into the tournament. The last year. Notre Dame played in the NCAA Tournament was 1966. Jack Nicklaus was prince, Arnold Palmer was "The King" and the world had yet to see the moon, or Tiger Woods for that 
matter. Thirty five years later, head 
coach George Thomas is opti­mistic that his team can rebound from a tough fall sea­
son to capture that elusive tournament bid. "I am very optimistic about 
the coming year." Thomas said. "We are definitely more talented than the way we played in the fall." 
Fueling Thomas' optimism is the return of his top two play­ers, senior Alex Kent and junior Steve Ratay, both of whom boast scoring averages that rank among Notre Dame's all-time top five. 
Kent's sterling 73.92 aver­age is the best in school histo­ry, while Ratay is close behind, carding a mere 75.46 strokes 
per round. "Alex is a premier player with great expeiience. He and Steve [Ratay) really compli­ment each other well," Thomas noted. Though Kent has historically been the better player, it was Ratay who led the team's fall 
Adding to Notre Dame's optimism is the return of senior Kyle Monfort who sat out last season. Monfort will likely shoot from the thi~d spot, while Pat Schaffier will occupy the lineup's fourth spot, giving the Irish quite a quad at the top of the lineup. 

"Kyle's return really makes us much stronger. He gives us another strong golfer at the top of the lineup,.. Thomas said. 
The team's success, howev­er, could hinge on Thomas' ability to find the right mix of · talent to fill out his lineup. 

Six golfers will compete for the last two spots, and Thomas is hopeful that this year his squad can finally be strong from top to bottom. 
"Those spots are really important in the lineup, espe­cially if one of the top players has a bad round. We never really came up with a consis­tent fifth and sixth man in the fall," Thomas said. 
After finishing a respectable but unspectacular 18th in the rain-shortened El Diablo Intercollegiate last weekend, 26 strokes behind winner Toledo, Notre Dame will be looking for more birdies and less bogeys this weekend when they head south to tee it up in Johnny Owens Invitational in Lexington, Kentucky. 
The Irish shot makers are not kidding themselves, though. They realize t~at the tournaments on the spring slate serve essentially one pur pose: to get ready for the Bit East Championships. After taking three titles in four years, the Irish choked at last year's spring tournamant, The Masters, the first year the con­ference champion received an automatic berth to the Big Dance. 

campaign, finishing as the low r--------------, man in three of four events including the Wisconsin 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
Invitational where he fired 

-Used Books bought and sold 
rounds of 71-70-71 to take 

-25 Categories ofBooks
medallist honors. 

-25,000 Hardback and Paperback 
"Steve is as good a golfer as 

books in stock 
we'll see this spring. He is very 

-Out-of-Print search service 
dedicated to improving his 

-Appraisals large and small 
game. He's our leader and Open noon to six team captain and has worked Tuesday through Sunday hard to get ready. I expect him 1027 E. Wayne to be a formidable force this South Bend, IN 46617 spring," Thomas said. (219) 232-8444 

CLINIC Three Sessions
6 •. 00-7.• 1 5 PM Open to ND Students & Employees
$ 8.0 0 C1ass Fee 
R-=­

"They're usually up t_here Classes Held in t~e Joyce CeJ?-ter & Ca_mpus ~akes in the Big East standmgs, Equipment Provided but Bring Own tf Possible and anyone can beat any-Register in Advance at RecSports
one." 

By CHRIS FEDERICO Sports Writer 
The Irish golf team will leave the icy links of South Bend and travel to Williamsburg, Virginia this weekend to compete in the William and Mary Invitational. 
The Irish got off to a slow start earlier this year at the Carolina's Collegiate Classic in late February, finishing last in a field of 22 teams. However, they were compet­ing against many Southern and East Coast teams that 
. have the advantage of playing golf nearly year-round. In Northern Indiana, the Irish are forced to spend most of the winter hitting indoors or training in the weight room while Southern teams are gaining real playing experi­ence on the course. The team has begun to bounce back, however. as shown by its progress in the Snowbird Invitational held in Tampa. In this second tour­nament, the team. placed a respectable ninth in the field of 17 teams. Their success in the tourna­ment was mostly evident in the way they placed as indi­viduals. Four players placed in the top 20, led by freshman · Shannon Byrne and sopho­more Terri Taibl who finished 
11 7:30 p.m. D Little Theatre 
in a tie for 12th place with a two-round score of 158. Close behind were senior cap­tain Shane Smith and sopho­more 
Shelby Strong.who tied for a seventeenth place finish with scores of 160. 

Byrne has been extremely impressive this spring seaso~, earning top team honors m both of the first two tourna­ments. Her sudden success, along with strong play from her teammates, has taken some of the pressure off of the senior Smith. who lead the team in the fall season with a team-low 79.82 scor­ing average. 
As the Irish move through the season. they look to improve their performance in each tournament. The team really has an opportunity to make a name for itself as a contender in the NCAA Central Region with a solid outing this weekend in Virginia. Many of the teams in Notre Dame's region will be participating in this tour­nament. including the host team and favorite William and Mary. 

This contest is the first of three in a row that will be very important for the Irish in regional play, traveling to Indiana University next week­end and then to the University of Illinois the fol­lowing weekend. 
--·-o
,m8_1!!.£~ 
~"°naro.unr. '" 


For ticket information call the Saint Mary5 Box Office at 284 4626 
The Early Childhood Development Center, located at the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College, is now accepting 2001 Summer Registration for children ages three thro1111h six a.nd 2001-2002 School Year
U&£ 

Registration for children ages two through five. Both pa.rt time and full time enrollment schedules are available. For more inforrr.a.tion, please call one ofthe numbers below. 
Early
Childhood 
DevelopmentCenter, Inc. 
Please call ­

631-3344 
or ~·284-4693 

• 
Friday, March 30, 2001 

The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
MEN'S LACROSSE 

Irish will rely Ulrich's offense for win over Ohio State 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Sports Writer 
If the Ohio State Buckeyes stick to their past game plans this Sunday in their match-up with the No. 7 Notre Dame men's lacrosse team, they will try to shut down Irish star David Ulrich. 
Two years ago that plan worked as the Buckeyes held the then-sophomore to just a single assist in a 5-4 upset of the Irish. 
The same box-and-two zone defense that bottled up the Irish attack in 1999 failed in 2000, however. While Ulrich scored a goal and dished two assists, the rest of the Irish offense explod­ed for 13 goals -including five by Tom Glatzel in a 13-4 Irish victory. 
Despite their success against the Buckeye defense last year, the Irish expect to see that same strategy in their Great Western Lacrosse League open­er. Although the Irish seemed to have solved the Buckeye defense, Ulrich is the one makes the offense go. 

"It didn't really work last year when we implemented a zone offense," said midfielder Todd Ulrich, David's twin brother. "Dave is the key for us on offense. He instigates the offense for us." 
If the Buckeyes continue to focus their defense on David Ulrich, the Irish expect the rest of their attack and midfielders to contribute. 
"We're all pretty capable of beating their defense," Todd Ulrich said. "We've been able to score a lot offensively." 
If the Buckeyes manage to shut down the Irish attack, they will be the first team to accom­plish that feat. In all six of their games. the Irish have scored nine or more goals while allow­ing their opponent to score more than 10 goals only once. 
The one time the Irish allowed more than 10 goals, however, was last week's loss to Hofstra. Coming off their first loss of the season. the Irish are more concerned with cutting down on mental mistakes than anything the Buckeyes might throw at them. 
Last week against Hofstra, the Irish say mental break­downs and fundamental mis­takes led to their 11-10 over­time loss. 
"We just have to stick to our plan and work on fundamen­tals," Todd Ulrich ·said. "We made a lot of fundamental and mental breakdowns. We just weren't making plays last week." 
The Irish hope to improve their clearing game against the Buckeyes, according to Todd Ulrich. When the Irish have made a stop of defense, they have been unable to move the ball up the field to their attack. 
"The thing we have really been screwing up is our clear­ing game," Todd Ulrich said. "When we actually get the ball on offense we have been getting pretty good positions." 

NASCAR 

Law will keep autopsy photos confidential 
Associated Press 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. 
With the widow of race car driver Dale Earnhardt at his side, Gov. Jeb Bush signed a bill Thursday to keep autopsy photos closed to the public unless a judge approves their release. 
The law sprang from an out­cry over the Orlando Sentinel's request to see Earnhardt's autopsy photos. Teresa Earnhardt led the protests, saying she wanted to protect her family's privacy. 

The measure, passed unani­mously in the Senate earlier Thursday, makes it a felony to release the records improper­ly, with a maximum sentence of five years in jail and a $5,000 fine. 
Bush thanked the Legislature for handling the bill in what he called record speed. 
"A tribute to the speed of Dale Earnhardt," the governor said. 
The new law is certain to be tested in the courts because such photos had been open as part of Florida's Sunshine Law, the most liberal public­records rule in the country. 
The law will not affect the Sentinel's effort to see the pic­tures, which was handled in mediation. A court-appointed expert has reviewed them and will issue a report that will go to the widow and the newspa­per. 
Earnhardt was killed in a crash on the last lap of the Daytona 500 in February. His widow won a court order to keep the autopsy photos pri­vate. A day later, the Sentinel went to court and, citing the (Ohio) Daily News. "Florida has taken a giant leap back­ward by weakening what had been the nation's best open­records law." 
Marcano's group, along with the American Society of Newspaper Editors, supported the push to keep the public records law from being changed. 
"I'm just so disappointed that lawmakers would give this kind of bill special treat­ment when bills for education and social issues don't seem to get it," Sentinel attorney David Bralow said on the newspa­per's Web site. 
Thom Rumberger, attorney for the Earnhardt family, said the media's fear is misguided. 
"A reading of this bill clear­ly. clearly specifies that any­body who as a just cause and needs to see those records can get them," Rumberger said. "But now, you can't just walk in there and say, 
Tennis 
continued from page 1 
Smith, ranked 91st, may have suffered for an uncer­tain first set. 
"Casey was tentative in the first set. When someone's not one hundred percent, you feel like you shouldn't play your game," said Bayliss. "But if you don't step up and . hit with authority. you end up playing into his hands." 
Junior Javier Taborga, ranked no. 93, was defeated by no. 70 ranked Philip Stolt 6-4, 3-6. 6-2. '' As it went on. I was able to use my fore­hand more, but he put a lot of pressure on my serve," said Taborga. "And if Casey or I had won, we would have been able to win the match." 
Notre Dame's only two tri­umphs came from junior Aaron Talarico and sopho­more Brian Farrell at no. 4 and 5 singles. Farrell defeat­ed Michael Calkins 7-6, 6-0, and Talarico beat Mike Kosta 6-3, 7-5. 
Farrell's win makes his record 13-2 for dual match competition. 
"[Brian Farrell] really deserves a lot of credit. And Aaron has been a rock. He's a point we've really come to count on," said Bayliss. 
Senior Matt Daly took his first loss of the season against the Illini in a tough set against Nathan Zeder, 7-6, 7­5. 
Only five matches remain in the regular season, but the Irish still hope to earn the right to host a regional match by maintaining a top 16 rank­ing. · 
"The other two times we've lost, we've come back in the next match, and that's what we have to do against Miami," said freshman Luis Haddock-Morales. 
Facing the Hurricanes' 90 degree environment could be an adjustment. "Beating Miami at Miami will be more difficult than beating Illinois here." said Bayliss. "There are a lot of excuses, but can we win? Are we good enough to win? Yes. It will be a war." 

open-records "I'm just so disappointed "I want law, asked that lawmakers would give t h e 
that the news­records."'
this kind ofbill special 
paper's med­Similar ical expert be treatment when bills for legislation 
allowed to see education and social issues is await­
the shots. ing the
don 't seem to get it. ••
The newspa­gover­per said it had nor's sig­no intention of David Bralow nature in publishing the Georgia
attorney

photos; it wanted to examine the pictures for its reporting on NASCAR safety. 
Racing fans bombarded Bush, legislative leaders and the Sentinel with thousands of e-mails, letters and telephone calls, protesting media efforts to see the photos. 
The Sentinel and other news organizations plan to chal­lenge the law as unconstitu­tional. 
"This is a sad day for Florida residents," said Ray Marcano, president of the Society of Professional Journalists and assistant managing editor for production at the Dayton 
and is 
u n d e r 

consider­ation in North Carolina, South Carolina and Louisiana. 
''We have said from the beginning that if one news organization is granted access to these private and painful images of my husband, others will request access. and soon­er or later they would be pub­lished on the Internet and elsewhere," Mrs. Earnhardt said at the bill signing. 
The president of a \Veb site and a student newspaper at the University of Florida are pursuing their own court cases for access to the autopsy pho­tos. 



IN RESSIONs 

·"' 
Come alone orbring afriend and make sure to \)ress to impress Friday, March 30th, 7:30 pm O'Laughlin Auditorium 

St Mary's 

Tickets: Presale @LaFun Students $3 &Gen. Public $5 @Door All $5 
Hosted by La Alianza 
~ ~ 
~~ h--·
' roop ND, 1st Class Steppers, ND Mariachi and muc 
Co-Sponsored bv: Kellogg Institute, Hispanic Alumni, Institute tor latino Studies, 

page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, March 30, 200 I 
FOOTBALL 

Davie: Too early to choose frontrunner for quarterback 
starting Job In the fall. · 

By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Senior Sports Writer 
Bob Davie may not know who will be quarterbacking the offense or who will wind up as the prime receiving target come September, but Davie knows he's got a talented pool of play­ers to pick from. 
''It's a little too early," said Davie about picking a frontrun­ner at quarterback. "So far, it's confirmed exactly what we've thought -that those two quar­terbacks that we didn't see a whole lot of are extremely tal­ented. We really have three guys, I think it's kind of remark-• able, that they're just freshmen and we can watch them throw like that." 
Matt Lovecchio, the starter for most of the 2000 season, split reps with fellow freshmen Carlyle Holiday and Jared Clark in Thursday's practice. Davie plans to divide reps among the trio throughout spring practices. 
..Exactly even, it's dead even with reps," Davie said...Clark has great velocity on it. I'm impressed with Carlyle and the level he's throwing the ball right now." 
LoVecchio's still got an edge, with eight games beneath his belt. 
A positive for the Irish is that all three quarterbacks are capa­ble of employing the same offen­sive style. 
Last year, Notre Dame found itself in a quandary when Arnaz Battle suffered a season-ending injury, forced to completely remake its offense with no option-ready quarterback to replace Battle. This year, even if an injury should occur, the Irish should be able to maintain the same offensive plan. 
"We went into the season thinking Arnaz Battle was the quarterback," Davie said in a press conference. "We were thinking we were going to have to be a heavy option team. We worked on a lot of triple option last spring that we really never got to use. We don't have that situation anymore. We have three quarterbacks that are the same. Our style of offense, we can lock into right now, and it's going to remain the same, knock on wood." 
Battle will see the ball from another angle next season, after switching to the wide receiver position during the off-season. Along with juniors David Givens, currently out with a hamstring injury, and Javin Hunter, Battle should get a lot of looks at wide receiver. Current freshmen Ronnie Rodamer, Omar Jenkins and Jerome Collins will join in the receiving corps. 
The one thing all the receivers have in common -they're all looking good in practice. 
"Good news and bad news," Davie joked. "Either we're bet­ter at receiver or we have to continue to improve at corner[back]." 
Practicing indoors at Loftus with no pads, throwing and catching was a little easier for the Irish than in a game situa­tion. But Davie was still happy with what he saw. 

"I am pleased with the way we're throwing and catching the ball," Davie said. "I think some of the young players, and I put Arnaz in that category, they catch the ball pretty well. We are throwing and catching the hall at a pretty high level for this early." 
Rodamer, who did not see action in 2000, is a strong deep option for the quarterback in question. 

"He's a guy that goes up and catches the deep ball," Davie said. "He has good hand and eye coordination. He doesn't have blazing speed, but I don't know that you have to." 
The Irish are going through 10 minutes of option every day, partly to gear up for the season opener against Nebraska. 
Notes 
. Recruit Dwight Ellick is not even on campus yet, but Davie already likes what he's hearing about the quick cornerback from Florida. 
"I'm excited," Davie said. "Dwight Ellick, I guess, has real­ly had some tremendous track times down in Tampa." 
Student Government and Alumni Hall 
Friday, March 30, 2001 page 27
The Observer . TODAY 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
48 Money in a classic song title 
49 Start of a #1 Beach Boys title 50 "Nature's pharmacy" 51 Smart one 
52 One who doesn't take the high road 
DOWN 
1 False front 2 Holiday_ 3 Georgia 
bloomers 4 City where Alka­Seltzer was first made 5 Like a cold shower? 6 Snacks served 
with cerveza 7 Throw off 8 Tangle 
40 1066 loser 44 _ Crane, Vera Miles's role in
41 Root words 
"Psycho• 42 Super's 
45 Big plot

apartment, often 46 "The Jumblies" poet
43 Hundreds of centavos 48 Softhead 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1·888•7-ACROSS. 
EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON footwork if you want to continue THIS DAY: Joan Crawford, to live the lifestyle you've become Chaka Khan, Moses Malone, Ric accustomed to living. 000 Ocasek, Amanda Plummer, Keri VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Russell Keep children busy with creative 
Happy Birthday: You need to endeavors. Your night should be concentrate this year. Learn to geared toward the one you love. say no to those who lean on you Let your feelings be known. 000 too much. You can make head-LIBRA (SepL 23-0cl 22): Use way if you are strong and yourcreati.vitytohelpyoudoyour adamant. You have a soft heart job uniquely. Don't let colleagues and often miss out because you drag you into the office politics. are so busy helping others. Orga-Stay on the fringes and do the best nize your priorities and don't1et job possible. Your professionalism anyone lead you astray. It's time won't go unnoticed. 000 to call in some favors from those SCORPIO (Oct. 23•Nov. 21): you've helped in the past. Your Pleasurable activities should be 
5 19 23 27 33 40 onthour dance card. A trip or a
numbers: , , , , , 11 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): ga ering of close friends wi Lady Luck is in your corner. Get start the weekend off right. You involved in investments that you need to learn how to enjoy know will pay off. Real estate will yourself. 00000 be profitable. Involvements•with SAGIIT.ARIUS (Nov;22-Dec.2l): institutions will turn out as Past partners may get in touch planned. 000 with you just to see how you are 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): and what you're up to. Don't be What a great day to get out, join fooled by their warmth and gen­groups or attend seminars. You erosity. Reservations will be will make new friends and warranted. 00 expand your knowledge, but CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan.19): don't let anyone talk you into a Aggressive communication will joint financial venture. 0000 get you what you want. Your 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): partner will back down and tis­Your family will put demands on ten toJour concerns. Clear the you that will be difficult to han-air an you'll feel much better 
dle. Be reasonable but let them about yourself. 0000 
know just how much you can and AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): can't do. Don't be gullible; ask Don't be too quick to follow the questions if you have doubts. 00 crowd. It's better to sit back and 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): observe. Losses are likely if you Get creative. You will be happi-get involved in business ven­est while working with your tures. 000 
hands or dealing with children. PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): If you don't already have a Your emotional sensitivity may hobby, today is an excellent day get you into trouble. Don't put the to start one. 00000 6la.me on others. It's time to do a 
LEO (July23-Aug. 22): It's time li~e soul-s:earching. Don'.t let rel­to revamp your financial plans. atives or friends become mvolved You will have to do some fancy in your private aHai.rs. 00 
Birthday Baby: You are sweet, sensitive and creative as long as ~ are going your way. You have a tw:inkle in your eye and a ~haty that will win you the admiration of both family and friends. 1011 :ve great ideas and apowerful sense ofwho you are and what you want 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) C.l()Ol Universal Press Syndicate 
.,. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 It's connected to a bowl 9 Course before une salade, maybe 15 A priest, not a 
beast 16 Kickoff 17 Trouble spot for 
Indiana Jones 18 Like beachgoers vis-a-vis indoor types 19 Confiscate, 
legally 20 Blenders 21 Busbies, boaters 
and billycocks 22 Roadside 
establishment 23 Door 25 1953 Eartha Kitt 
hit 
29 Squalor 30 Pole star? 31 Chiller 
32 It's north of New York City 33 Berkshire abode 34 Old film magazine photos 36 Alpine Museum city 37 Checkered 
38 Georges who wrote "Life: A User's Manual" 
39 Rudimentary 
40 "Star Trek" . navigator 41 Gilda Radner 
character 44 Like some speech sounds 47 Inuit outerwear 

9 Sovereign 10 Change colors, 
in a way 11 Curly strand 12 Daughter of 
James II 13 Will of Hollywood 14 Foozles 
20 Foozle 

22 like opium poppy leaves 
23 _ of Nantes 
24 Specialty 25 Gush 
Puule by Boo Klahn 
26 One who's homeward bound 27 Unconventional 
28 "No Strings Attached" pop group 
30 Explorer of sorts 32 Start of certain addresses 35 Inner walls of fortification 
ditches 36 Buy, so to speak 38 Infused with 
enthusiasm 


\ 
~\ 
I,'~ 
! \ 
\ 
I t 
' 
I 
I)
,, 
'I 
I 

O
THE page 28 BSERVER 

SOFTBALL 

Pitchers key in doubleheader sweep of WMU 

The pitching of Jen Sharron helped the Irish sweep Western Michigan University Thursday In a doublehead­er. The Irish improved their record to 22-3, the best start for the team In school history. 

The Final Stretch 
Niele Ivey and the Notre Dame women's basketball team are in St. Louis for a matchup with Connecticut. 
Irish Insider 
Friday, March 30, 2001 

By PETER FRASSO Sports Writer 
Pitchers Jen Sharron and Kristin Schmidt allowed only one run in 13 innings, and right fielder Jenny Kriech went 5 for 8 with two stolen bases and four runs scored, leading the Irish softball team to a domi­nating doubleheader sweep of Western Michigan on Thursday by scores of 7-1 and 8-0. 
"I knew we were capable of that," said Coach Liz Miller, who has led the Irish to the best start in school history. "We had a lull for three or four innings, but we finally put them away. They've had a rough start, and we have a lot of vet­erans on our team." 
No. 11 Notre Dame improved their record to 22-3. They have won four in a row since losing their third game of the season to Cal State Fullerton back on March 18. 
Game one pitcher Jen Sharron had a no-hitter through five, but struggled in the top of the sixth, loading the bases with no outs before get­ting out of the jam only allow­ing a single run. 
"Except for one inning, it was the best I've seen Jen pitch since the South Carolina game," commented Miller. "She had great control. threw real hard, and had great move­ment." 
"I just went out there with the mentality that I would dom­inate every pitch and ever)' bat­ter," said Sharron. "It's good to know that if someone hits a good pitch, the defense is behind me." 
Sharron finished off the Broncos with a 1-2-3 inning in the seventh to claim her 11th win. 
"I felt good about how I pitched today," added Sharron. "It's a great game to gain momentum going into the Big East this weekend." ­
Kristin Schmidt, the starter for game two. finished with a flurry, striking out the last six batters she faced. 
"I could have made a few more outside corner pitches better, gotten a few more called strikes," said. Schmidt. "I can always expect better, but over­all I did pretty good." 
"Kristin's been on a roll, and it continued tonight," added Miller. 
The shutout, win number nine for Schmidt, was secured when the offense scored three runs in the bottom of the sixth, prompting the umpire to call the game due to the eight run mercy rule. 
"Jenny was very tired due a large load of academics this week," said Miller. "She was really pressing, and was very focused. I had to pull her aside and tell her she was doing great. She's an exc·ellent baserunner, and a dominant player." 
Lizzy Lemire and Danielle Klayman both went 3 for 6. Leading slugger Jarrah Myers added two hits. 



BASEBALL 
Sluggers face Seton Hall in Big East games
J 
will  mix  it  up  twice  on  
Saturday  and  once  on  
Sunday  at  Frank  Eck  
Stadium.  

The Pirates enter the week­end at 11-10, with a lacklus­ter pitching staff giving up 
5.18 earned runs a game. Opponents are hitting .279 collectively against Seton Hall, an average higher than five starting Irish hitters. 
Notre Dame has not put together four and five run innings that often this sea­son, and their offense has 
see BASEBALL/page 24 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Irish seek to regain slot in rankings 
KATIE HUGHES Sports Writer 
Bienvenido a Miami. And goodbye to their first 10-match winning streak since 1993. The Irish head off to Miami this weekend after a 5-2 loss to the Fighting Illini of Illinois yester­day, ready to regain their place in the rankings. 
"None of the guys have expe­rienced a top 10 ranking before. We didn't get here by letting things come to us. We scratched and clawed, as a lot of teams here over the years have had to do," said Bobby Bayliss. head coach. 
In doubles competition, the 20th ranked team of Javier 

Taborga and Aaron Talarico with more depth and precision. were defeated by Illinois' no. 7 That's easy to say. Now we just ranked team of Amer Delle and have to go do it." Graydon Oliver, 8-3.. The Irish "If we don't work on doubles, no. 2 doubles it will hurt us ~ team of Luis in the Haddock­NCAA's," said
"None ofthe guys have 
Morales and junior Javier
experienced a top IO
Casey Smith Taborga. lost 8-3. and ranking before. We didn't In singles 
the no. 3 dou­get here by letting things competition, 
bles team of Illinois' no. 20 
come to us. ·· 
Matt Daly and ranked Brian Farrell Graydon lost 8-4. Bobby Bayliss Oliver wasn't "Illinois is up to par
Tennis head coach 
one of the bet-today, strug­
ter teams in gling with flu­doubles, and they exposed our like symptoms throughout the weakness today," said Bayliss. match. "We need to work on returning 
see TENNIS/page 25the first serve, and volleying 

l 
' I 
By JEFF BALTRUZAK 
Assistant Sports Editor 
In this age of pumped-up power hitters and five home run games, the No. 13 Notre Dame baseball team is an anomaly, winning with pitch­ing despite an offense that has struggled to put together big innings at the plate. 
If there was ever a series to put Notre Dame's hitting back on track. this week­end's three games against Big East opponent Seton Hall would be it. The two· teams 

Baseball 
at Miami 
Final Four vs. Seton Hall Sunday, 11 a.m. vs. Connecticut
SPORTS 

Softball

Saturday, 12:05 p.m. Today, 9 p.m. 
vs. Adrian
ATA. 
Saturday, 3 p.m. 

Men's Lacrosse 
vs. Iowa Golf 
at Ohio State 

Friday, 3 p.m. at William and Mary
GLANCE 
lf,Saturday, I p.m. Today 
~,.-. ­
·.. · ·"· ~ ~
.. 
· 
..•.·•. 
U-1..> 

page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, March 30, 2001 
Huskies vs. Irish: Final round from St. Louis 
two days after suffering a bro­
By NOAH AMSTADTER 

ken hand. 
Sports Editor 

In the rematch at Storrs, Riley had 23 points while The first time it was an 
Siemon added 16. Sue Bird upset predicted only by the led ·the Huskies with 15 most optimistic of Irish fans. points, including a majesticThe second time, they jump-shot at the buzzer. played an epic battle deemed Connecticut freshman Diana an "Instant Classic" by ESPN. Taurasi earned Most Valuable Tonight, the Notre Dame Player honors at the Big East women's basketball team 
Tournament and hasn't meets Connecticut in the only stopped since. The1 Los suitable destination for the Angeles native led 
two top-ranked teams in the Connecticut with 17 points, 10 nation -the Final Four in St. 
rebounds and four .assists in Louis. the Huskies' 67-48 Elite Eight
"I think we are always ready romp of Louisiana Tech on for the challenge of playing Monday. McGraw believes Connecticut," Irish coach Taurasi's Big-East-Tour­
Muffet McGraw said nament performance gave the Wednesday. "I think it was a guard the right attitude to great series this year, and succeed in March Madness. certainly, we look forward to "I think that was sort of a one more opportunity to play springboard for her," McGraw them." said. "She has played really
While the surging Irish are well in the NCAAs. And espe­strong as ever, Connecticut cially with Shea Ralph out of excelled in the East regional the lineup, she has more of 
despite playing without the scoring role, which is a Svetlana Abrosimova and job I think she's comfortable Shea Halph. with. Even as a freshman, she Abrosimova suffered a sea­is a very, very poised player."
son-ending foot injury in a With shooters Ralph and Connecticut's regular season 
Abrosimova out, Connecticut 
loss to Tennessee. Ralph tore fields a taller lineup. Asj a her ACL in the Huskies' Jones, Swin Cash and KellyMarch 6 victory over the Irish Schumacher are all rebound­in the Big East championship ing specialists. game. 
"I think that makes them a 
That loss came less than better rebounding team," two months after then-No. 3 McGraw said. "I think theyNotre Dame clobbered an 
are still a very good defensive 
undefeated and top-ranked 

team. They seem to be playingConnecticut squad 92-76 on more halfcourt defense than 
Jan. 15. It was the first win fullcourt defense. So I think 

for the Irish in 11 tries versus that they have made some the Huskies. great adjustments.""I think it could be difficult Should the Irish walk awayif we had lost both games," 
victors tonight, they will take 
McGraw said. "I think you talk on either Purdue or about how hard it is to beat a 
Southwest Missouri State for team three times, but when the national championship on 
Irish center Ruth Riley shoots over two Connecticut defenders during the Irish loss to 
you beat them 11 times in a Sunday. 
Connecticut in the Big East Championship game. Riley scored 23 points in the defeat. 
row, I don't think that you 

The Boilermakers return to 
worry about winning that 

the Final Four after winning towards a possible rematch top scorer, Jackie Stiles. The ways," McGraw said. "I think 
third game." 

two years ago. The Bears with the Irish, who won the 5-foot-8 guard put in 32 the chemistry of this team has 
Ruth Riley set the tone for 

stormed through the Western last meeting of the two points before fouling out as been so tremendous. Theythe Irish in both games. At regional to earn their first trip Indiana teams 72-61 Dec. 9. SMS topped Washington 104-have been so much fun to home, Riley scored 29 points to the dance since 1992. "l think it's great," Riley 87 Monday night. work with. I wish I would 
-including a perfect 13 of 13 

Purdue is led by Katie said. "It shows what kind of No matter what happens, have kept a journal or decided from the free-throw line ­
Douglas, Kelly Komara and players come out of Indiana. McGraw is thrilled with her to write a book at the begin­
and grabbed 11 rebounds. 

Camille Cooper. The It shows a lot for Hoosier bas­team's effort this season. ning of the year"Kelley Siemon added 15 Boilermakers topped Xavier ketball." ..It really has been such a Two more wins, and she'll 
points and eight rebounds just 

87-78 Monday to advance The Bears boast the nation's special year for me in a lot of have quite a story to tell. 

Sizing up the bracket 



Purdue versus Southwest 
Notre Dame versus Missouri State: Jackie 
Connecticut: Battle No. 3 Stiles. the nation's most 
decides this Big East war. prolific scorer, leads the 
In two meetings this sea­surprising No. 5 Bears, 
son, each team has won scoring 31 points per 1-------------------1 one home game. The contest. Purdue stars 
Huskies are led by Sue Katie Douglas and 
Bird, Swin Cash and Diana Camille Cooper pushed the 
Taurasi after losing stars Boilermakers past Xavier 
Shea Ralph and Svetlana in the Elite Eight. 
Abrosimova to injuries. 



Semifinals -Fridav, 1p.m. Finals -Sundav, 1:30 p.m. Semifinals -Fridav, 9:30 p.m. 
,E,,;> 

Friday, March 30, 200 I The Observer . COVER STORY page 3 
Irish leader ends career where she started 
• lvey's search for national title takes her back to hometown 

By NOAH AMSTADTER Sports Editor 
Gary Glasscock heard about a child prodigy. 
The buzz within St. Louis girls' bas­ketball in the early '90s concerned a little girl from the inner-city. Glasscock, the girls' basketball coach at St. Louis' Cor Jesu Academy, lis­tened to rumors of a sixth-grader who was sinking half-court shots on a reg­ular basis. 
Her name: Niele Ivey. 

Tonight, the grown-up prodigy returns to St. Louis as the starting point guard on a 32-2 Notre Dame team that takes on Connecticut at 9 
p.m. in the Women's Final Four semifinals. 
Notre Dame head coach attended the Missouri Class 4A girls' basketball playoffs. The Chargers were on the court, led by their fiesty point guard. 
"The thing that really drew me to her was her attitude and demeanor on the court,·· McGraw said. "She's such a great leader. She was inspira­tional to her team. She was always talking and getting them together." 
The contest was close -every shot essential to assure victory. Ivey con­tinued driving to the basket. Car Jesu won the game, en route to a Class 4A state championship. Ivey hit a perfect 13 of 13 free-throw attempts down the stretch to ice the win. 
"She was highly motivated, worked extremely hard," McGraw said. "She was much more defense-oriented in high school than she was a shooter. I just really was just looking for some­body that could lead our team in that kind of way and she fit it perfectly." 
The Irish coach wasn't going to let 
· this one get away. 
"It's a great feeling McGraw and her
"We tried to go every­
to know that I'm going recruiting partner,
where she was. Muffet
home," Ivey sa1'd. "It's Notre Dame assis­something that I knew that she was going tant Carol Owens, thought about at the kept their eyes on
to be a special player. ,.
beginning of the year. the guard through­That's where all my out the summer. family and support is." Carol Owens Although NCAA 
Glasscock remembers Irish assistant coach rules forbade the 

not come without a few bumps in the road. 
The fifth-year senior was granted an extra year of eligibility after a torn anterior cruciate ligament in her right knee her freshman season in 1996-97 limited her to five games. 
The 1996 USA Today Missouri Player of the Year came back to start in 19 of her 31 appearances in 1997­
98. The next season, she solidified her starting role and earned third-team All-Big East recognition after averag­ing a career-best 13.2 points to go along with a conference-best 44.8 percent from behind the 3-point arc. Then disaster struck -again. 
Notre Dame was 24-4 on the year, taking on conference-rival Rutgers in the Big East Tournament semifinals. With 14 minutes remaining, Ivey went down. It was her ACL again, only this time she tore her left. 
The rehabilitation was once again long and grueling. But six months after the injury, Ivey was back on the court. Rather than feeling sorry for herself. Ivey recognizes the positives that have come out of her two ordeals. 
"I gained a lot of determination and motivation from the injuries," Ivey said. "It's made me realize that bas­ketball isn't the only thing in my life. I became closer to my family. A lot of special people have come into my life because of it. I think it's a blessing in disguise." 
After the second injury, Ivey once again came back stronger than ever. She averaged 11.2 points and six assists per game in 1999-2000, mov­ing up to second-team All-Big East. The Irish advanced to the Sweet 16. 
This season Ivey served as a team captain, increased her scoring aver­age to 11. 8 points and upped her assist average to seven per contest. She is taking the Irish to their second Final Four ever, their first since 1997, the year of Ivey's first injury. 
The 23-year-old's efforts earned her the Frances Pomeroy Naismith Award, an honor presented to the nation's top female senior player standing 5-foot-8 or under. 
"Any kind of accolades or awards I receive I get excited about the hard work I put in to basketball," Ivey said. "To get recognition is a great feeling." 
Whi-le many fans focus on the efforts of All-American center Ruth Riley, Irish assistant coach Coquese Washington says Ivey is invaluable to the team's success. 
"Niele's a natural leader. She's defi­nitely the heart and soul of this team," Washington said. "Everybody feeds off of Niele. I think this team as a whole just plays a lot more relaxed a lot more loose and they're able to make shots and plays." 
While Ivey hasn't starred in St. Louis since 1996, she is far from for­gotten. Cor Jesu designated Tuesday "Niele Ivey Day" at the all girls, Catholic high school. Blue paper jer­seys adorned with Ivey's number "33" line the center hallway of the build­
....

ing. Paper shoes -33 of them, of course -list Ivey's various accom­plishments and honors, both prep and collegiate. 
The shoes follow a large blue "Road to the Final Four" in the school's gym­nasium. Each step on the road repre­sents a Notre Dame game this season. 
Ivey's final shoe places her at the end of that road -in St. Louis for the Final Four. 
Right back where she started. 
a middle-school Ivey not much different from the first-team All-Big East guard Notre Dame fans are famiiiar with. 
"She played on just an average team with average girls and she got all of them involved in the game just as she has done at Notre Dame and here at Cor Jesu," Glasscock said. 
When Ivey finally reached eighth grade and had to pick where to spend her high school years, the choice was an easy one. She was raised Catholic, attended Catholic grammar schools and her family was impressed by what Cor Jesu had to offer. Glasscock didn't even have to recruit her. 
"It was a very spirited high school," Ivey said. "It was run by the Sacred Heart nuns so there were a lot of Christian values. It's kind of a family [atmosphereJ." 
If Cor Jesu was a family, Ivey quick­ly became the favorite daughter. As the Chargers bolted to a 31-0 record and the Missouri Class 4A state cham­pionship, Ivey led the team -a team with one player taller than the 5-foot­8 Ivey -with averages of 18.1 points, 
6.9 rebounds and five steals. As a senior, Ivey improved her averages to 24 points and eight rebounds per con­test. 
During her junior year champi­onship run, Irish coach Muffet McGraw first watch Ivey play. The 
one-on-one 
WITH 
NIELE'IVEY 

position: point guard year:fifth-year senior awards: 2001 Frances Pomeroy Naismith Award, 2001 third-team All-American, 2001 All-Big East first team notables: Ivey has overcome a torn ACL in each leg to become one of the top point guards in the coun­try, She broke current Irish assis­tant coach Coquese Washington's record for career steals and is sec­ond on the all-time Irish assist list. birthdate: Sept. 24, 1977 hometown: St. Louis, l\10. dimensions: 5-foot-8 
duo from actually 
speaking with the rising high school junior, the duo traveled everywhere from small towns in Missouri to pickup games at the Boys and Girls Club of St. Louis to watch Ivey play. 
"We tried to go everywhere she was," Owens said. "Muffet from the start knew that she was going to be a very special player." 
When Ivey reached her senior year and Notre Dame was able to make contact, the Ivey family and the Notre Dame family quickly gelled into one. 
"I really bonded with Niele immedi­ately on the phone," Owens said. "Cor Jesu is similar in schools and what she was looking for." 
In the end, it was Ivey's mother, Theresa, that sealed the decision. 
"Muffet and I came on the home visit," Owens said. ''Niele surprisingly was quiet at the time. She was very quiet until she got to know us. Her mom said she knew that that's defi­nitely the place and the people she wanted her." 
Mrs. Ivey, who works for a gourmet foods company, even cooked for the two coaches. 
"Her mom's a great person, and a great cook," Owens said. "We had pound cake. I could have had like three pieces." 
But Ivey's "March to the Arch" has 

Ivey 

If she were president of the U.S., the first thing she'd do would be: paint the White House black. 
The Notre Dame student-athlete she admires most is: Adam Sargent 
The best thing about being a student at Notre Dame is: the friendships you make 
The best thing about playing basket­ball at Notre Dame is: running out to the "Victory 1\1arch, ,, running the show and making history in St. Louis 
Since being at Notre Dame she's learned: to fight and overcome 
~.LI> 

page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIGHT Friday, March 30, 200I 
Unsung heroes play pivotal role in Irish success 


The bandwagon is getting upcoming opponents. sonnel manager, arranges all But she's not complaining. Administrative assistant heavy. "Those guys are great," Ruth the travel plans (hotels, meals, "I got in trouble during the She has a basketball name. 
With the win over Vanderbilt, Riley said. "They help us out a and flights) and handles a lot of first game," Maxwell said. "Niele Jeri Lucas. It's pronounced the Irish advanced to the Final lot." daJ.•to•day operations. [Ivey] hit a 3 and I did the 3-the same as Jerry Lucas, the Four and captured national For McKnight, a four-year It's been basketball and point signal [with both arms former NBA great. attention. varsity soccer player, the daily school work, lately, with basket­raised over her head]. It's hard But don't expect Lucas, the 
ball taking up most of my time," 
Finally. afternoon competition helps him not to be biased." team's administrative assistant, 
Morales said. "Things have been 
The fol­stay in shape. It also helps to to recite her namesake's bio­
stressful at times. But it's worth Strength and conditioning
lowing peo­quiet the critics of his basketball graphical information. 
it. Being on that floor in Denver 
ple have game, namely Riley and Niele coach "I don't know too much about
and now being in St. Louis. It's 
been part of Ivey. When Rolinski enrolled at him," Lucas said. 
definitely worth it." 
this team "They've been ragging on me Penn State in the mid-1980s, She knows how to assist one
Marketing/promotions
since the since freshman year," McKnight he understood the obvious. of the nation's best teams, beginning said. "I figured I might as well assistant "If I even thought about though. Lucas began working at of the sea­be around a team [after soc­Heather Maxwell will be busy stepping on the football field, Notre Dame in the cashier's son, before cer]." on Friday night. I would have been a tackling office in 1981, then went to the Any predictions for Friday's Maxwell, a first-year market­dummy," Rolinski said. "I Student Residences before Connecticut highly anticipated trilogy? ing/promotions assistant, follows decided to use my mind switching over to her current win, before "On a neutral site," Dillon the same routine 45 minutes instead of my body." position in March 1994. "experts" said, "we'll beat them by 15." prior to every contest. She meets Smart choice. After stints at "I didn't really know how ath· believed Spoken like a true teammate. with Murphy McGraw (Muff et's Pittsburgh and Duquesne, letics worked," Lucas said. "I Notre Dame son) and applies blue and gold Rolinski joined the Irish was totally green." 
Senior managers· 
could chal-paint on the 10-year old's face. strength and conditioning Seven years later, only Lucas's 
They spend several hours per
lenge for a national title, before "He always wants it some spe­program in 1998. fingernails are green. Like the
day preparing for trips, prac­
every national publication ran a cial way," Maxwell said. "That's Rolinski works with the coaches, players and others
tices and games. They attend
Ruth Riley feature. my official duty." women's team all year. Most associated with the program, 
every game, home and away.
Apologies to the 107 or so If only her job was that simple. players stayed in South Bend Lucas painted her fingernails
They have little free time during 
other "behind-the-scenes" types Wonder who organizes the this summer and all were green at the beginning of March. 
the season.
who have helped make this sea­halftime shows, the on-court given a 12-week program to She handles many of the day­
Meet the managers.
son run so smoothly. activities during the timeouts follow. Once school starts, to-day operations, oversees the
"Those are the real people and the countless other creative Rolinski meets with them banquet, does paper work for Practice players who keep the show running," ideas that helped attract record three times a week. Four recruiting and Notre Dame sum­Chris Dillon wears a Ruth strength and conditioning coach crowds this year? It's Maxwell. weeks prior to the first offi­mer camps, answers telephonesRiley-like white adidas head­Tony Rolinski said. 
"My ideas usually start with cial practice day (Oct. 15), and has countless other respon­band but the off-campus senior This year's senior managers, 'Wouldn't it be funny?," Rolinski begins an on-court sibilities.
wants to play like Diana Jaime Morales and Gretchen Maxwell said. "One of my conditioning program. Lucas also greets every visitor Taurasi. Schumer, worked with the foot­favorites was Beach Day (the It meets every Tuesday and with a smile and chats with any "I think I'll be [Connecticut ball team last season and start­theme for the Jan. 15 Thursday at 7 a.m. one who enters the office. 
freshman point guard] Diana ed their current positions in Connecticut game). During the "They'll complain," Rolinski "Working for Muffet and theTaurasi today," said Dillon, who Dec. 1999. 
game, I saw a guy walking said. "Any human would. But team is great," Maxwell said. "Iwore the headband again during "Our main job is to let the around with Speedos on, his they understand it's worth do anything they ask me."
Wednesday's practice. 'TH be coaches coach and the players head painted and goggles on his it." Except one thing.
able to shoot from anywhere I play," Morales said. "We'll Said Riley: "He's definitely
head. It was fun." Hand out extra tickets for this want." worry about the other stuff." 
The job is not all fun, though. one of the guys that has weekend's games. 
Notre Dame students Dillon, The other stuff for Schumer, For a typical home game, the helped me out the most since There's none left.
Reggie McKnight, Tom the head equipment manager, 1999 University of Indianapolis I've been here He helped with The opinions expressed in this Krizmanich, Kyle Heroman, include~ running practice, 
graduate arrives in her office at every aspect of the game. column are those ofthe author 
John Moravec and Kevin ordering equipment and prepar­
8 a.m. and leaves around 10 both mentally and physical­and not necessarily those ofThe
Mumford practice with the Irish ing the locker room before and ly."
p.m. Observer.
and help them prepare for after games. Morales, the per­
!
I 
'I 
• I 


( 
. ) ' 





