

Oh the way things were 
The opposite of sex 
Friday
Check out the humorous history ofstudent 
The debate about campus sexuality continues 
government elections at 
with responses to recent letters about parietals 
Notre Dame. 
and the Notre Dame female's fashion sense. 
FEBRUARY 16, 
Scene . page 12 
Viewpoint . page 10 
2001 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
HTTP:// . . 

ND elects Norton first female student body president 
. Student voter rates lower than primary election 
By lAURA ROMPF Assistant News Editor 
Brooke Norton did what Al . Gore couldn't. By capturing 56 
percent of the vote in 
Thursday's run-off, the cur­
rent vice president became the 
first female student body pres­
ident at Notre Dame. 
"I am excited for this oppor­
tunity," Norton said. "This 
year is the 30th anniversary of 
women being admitted into 
Notre Dame, and we will have 
our first female student body 
president. I am very honored 
to have that privilege." 
Norton is the first vice presi­dent to win the University's student body elections since incumbent Dennis Etienne won the presidency in 1973. Ryan Becker. along with run­ning mate Nikki McCord; cap­tured 42 percent of the vote in Thursday's run-off. Becker said he was proud of his cam­paign staff and thanked his supporters. 
'Tm really proud of the race we ran," Becker said. "We picked up 500 votes today. It shows how hard we worked in the past week. I'm very proud." 
Becker gave special thanks 
to Zahm Hall which had the 
highest voter turn-out on cam­
pus and awarded Becker 154 
votes compared to Norton's 
18. 
.. We have nothing to be 
ashamed of," Becker said. 
"Obviously, we wish we 
could've won, but we can walk 
out of here and hold our heads 
high." 
Brian Moscona, the vice 
president-elect, said he is 
excited for the opportunity to 
serve the student body. 
"We're going to work our 
butts off to make this a better 
campus and a better place for 
the student body," said 
Moscona. "I think there's a lot 
of good we can do." 
The run-off election had a lower voter turnout than pre­vious student body elections. While 3,801 students voted in Monday's primary, only 3,249 voted Thursday, amounting to a little more than 40 percent of the student body. 
Norton, whose parents were on hand for the announcement Thursday night, thanked all her supporters and said she looks forward to accomplish­ing all the Norton/Moscona platform goals. . 
"It was all the little things that made this happen," Norton said. "I want to thank all of those who did the work." 


SARAH FUCHS/The Observer 
Brian Moscona and Brooke Norton (I to r) are congratu­lated by Son Nguyen at the Mc Kenna Center for Continuing Education follow­ing the annoucement of their victory in the student body presidential/vice presidential race Thursday night. 



Philbin donates to arts center 
By HIIARY BURN News Writer 
Television personality Regis Philbin made a $2.75 
million donation for a studio theater that "'ill bear 
his name in the new Marie DeBartolo Center for the 
Performing Arts. 
Philbin, the popular host of 
the game show "Who Wants to 
Be a Millionaire" and talk 
show "Live! With Regis and 
Kelly". has already given sev­
eral gifts to the University, 
including the endowment of a 
scholarship. 
"Regis Philbin is not only one of Notre Dame's most recog­nized graduates, he also is among our most generous," said University President Father Edward Malloy. "With his time, talent and resources, Regis has made numerous contributions to the University and our surrounding community. We are most appreciative of this latest gift, which will do much to enhance our growing commitment to and reputation in the dramatic arts." 
The contribution \\ill supplement the DeBartolo family's original pledge of $33 million. The gift was intended for DeBartolo Hall and the new performing arts center. 
The construction of the center had been stalled while the University waited for the DeBartolo pledge to be fulfilled. Having recently received the whole donation, the University sought other donors to meet 


the added costs that have emerged since the initial 
proposal. Along with Philbin's donation, several 
other significant donations have provided enough to 
build the $54 million facility. 
"We would welcome this gift for any purpose, but 
to designate it for a theater that will be the home 
space for our lab and performance-art productions 
-a place for experiment and adventure in the arts 
-is especially appropriate," said Don Crafton. the 
chair of the Film, Television and Theater depart­
ment. 

The 100-seat theater will be used for some theater 
classes. lab performances and other departmental 
productions. The sophisticated seating, lighting and 
sound systems will provide students with artistic and 
technical freedom. 

"It will greatly increase the University's ability to present cutting-edge theater," said Crafton. "It pro­vides an opportunity for students to work on avant­garde performance pieces and any kind of dramatic performance requiring minimal stage support." 
The studio theater is just one of the features of the new performing arts center, which will contain a 900-seat concert hall, a 350-seat Proscenium the­atre, a film-screening studio and an organ loft. 
"The Marie DeBartolo Center will be a quantum leap forward for performing arts at Notre Dame and it will be one of the finest University facilities of its kind in this country," said Director of Public Relations Dennis Moore. 
The 123,000 square-foot building will be located at the south end of DeBartolo quad. Construction will begin in a few months and will be completed in 2003. 
Annual Blak Koffee 
House opens tonight 
By MEG DADAY 
News Writer 
The Black Cultural Arts 

Council hosts its annual Blak 
Koffee House at 8 p.m. Friday 
night in Lafortune Ballroom. 
A talent showcase of 10 to 

12 acts, Blak Koffee House Is 
"an upscale literary and 
musical extravaganza of 
African and African­
American creativity," said 
Chandra Johnson, assistant to 
University President Father 
Edward Malloy and artistic 
coordinator of the show. 
Johnson has been involved with the show since Karsonia Wise, a graduate student in peace studies, created it in 1993. While an undergradu­ate, Johnson began oversee­ing production of the show in 1994. 
According to Johnson. the show's style reflects that of Harlem artists such as Langston Hughes and Nella Larson. 
"It highlights the literary and jazz artists of the 1920s," said Johnson. "The students' creativity is highlighted in a 
way that gets  to  the very  
essence  of  the  Harlem  
Renaissance."  

The show features a perfor­mance by the Voices of Faith Gospel Choir, poetry readings by Tanesha Dixon, Orlando Gonzalez and Jourdan Sorrell and songs performed by Johnnie Cheeks. Patrick Parks and Adrienne de la Rosa. 
Johnson said seniors Justin Smith and Joanna Bowen will narrate the show and weave the acts into a cohesive whole. 
The event is officially part of Junior Parents Weekend. 
"Blak Koffee House is always held on the Friday of JPW to give parents, as well as a broad cross-section of students a chance to witness African and African­American music and poetry," Johnson said. 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Friday, February 16, 200I 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Choices, Good 

and Bad 
Two weeks ago, I got a set of emails from my parents. The basic theme was "I know you are busy but you really need to call home. We haven't heard from you since you drove back from break." 
My dad also threw an extra line in his email "You can just call us from work if you have to. You can talk on the phone and still get work done on your comput­er." 
Now you would think that those two emails would trigger me to immediately pick up the phone and call my parents. But of course that wasn't the case. Between interviewing stu­dent government tickets and digging through the everyday hassles at The Observer, I had every intention of calling home but for some reason it just never happened. 
Every night I would come into the office at 7 p.m., planning on calling around 8 and end up looking up from editing pages to realize it was midnight and my parents were in bed already. 
So finally three days after I got the "Are you dead emails?" I finally managed to call home. It wasn't until I called home that I realized how much had happened to me in the month since I'd driven back to South Bend. 
My parents had to read about my re-election as editor in chief in the newspaper. They had no idea if I was moving off campus and who I was going to live with next year. I had made all sorts of decisions both big and small in the first month back to school. 
It wasn't that my parents wanted to approve or disapprove of my decisions. I think they have basically recognized that I am going to make most of the important choices in my life for bet• ter or worse on my own. They just wanted to know what was going on. 
As I talked to them and told them all I had 
done, I suddenly realized that it was incredibly 
selfish of me not to call home for an entire 
month. As I was asserting my independence 
and making my own decisions, I was forgetting 
about the people who taught me how to make 
good decisions. 
My parents didn't want to approve my deci­
sions or tell me what to do. They just wanted to 
share the joy of my choices with me. These 
were the people who taught me how to make 
decisions. 
When I was younger they taught me about 
accepting responsibility for my actions and 
thinking things through. Every time I heard 
"You have to take responsibility for your 
actions" from my mom after I really screwed 
up, I learned how to make wiser decisions. 
So this weekend, my parents come into town 
for Junior Parents Weekend. It's a chance for 
my parents to see the results of all the choices I 
have made in my 2.5 years at college. 
And that's what I think JPW is all about. 
Sharing the choices and decisions that will 
affect your life with the people who gave you 
the confidence and wisdom to make those deci­
sions. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Kate Nagengast Amanda Greco Scott Brodfuehrer Graphics Christine Kraly 
Jose Cuellar Sports Production Noah Amstadter 
Jeff Baltruzak Viewpoint Lab Tech 
Pat Kelly Lisa Velte 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 

THIS WEEK IN ND/SMC HISTORY 
The candidates and their platforms Feb. 19, 1976 
A bond fund for students arrested for underage drink­ing and a reduction of parietal violations to the level of a hall offense are two major points in a platform offered by Student Body President candidate Mike Sweigart and Student Body Vice President candidate Bill Walsh to the student body. Other major points include finding a solution to the "Summer Storage Hassle." 
Student gets windfall of $25,000 Feb. 14, 1991 
A few minutes before heading to a physics test, sopho­more Annie Cahill received something that made the test seem unimportant -a check for $25,000. Three mem­bers of the Publisher's Clearing House Prize Patrol arrived at Siegfried Hall with a red Nissan 300 ZX bedecked with a red bow. Cahill accepted a large display check for $25,000 in lieu of the car. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
New Mexico athlete fights work program 
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. 
Sean Tollison came to the University of New Mexico three years on a swim­ming scholarship, anxious and thrilled by the prospect of competing in his hometown. Now Tollison has no team, no scholarship and his only connec­tion to swimming is through coaching. 
Tollison is one of 56 male athletes on the swimming, wrestling and gym­nastic teams that were cut by the UNM Athletic Department in March of 1999 to deal with budget constraints, field competitive sports in the newly­formed Mountain West Conference and come closer to complying with 
U.S. Department of Education equity laws -better known as Title IX. 
When the sports were cut, Athletic Director Rudy Davalos said nothing could be done to save the programs, 

In the fall of 1999, Tollison said he and his peers were told they had to work for the Athletic Department to retain their scholarships. Some ath­letes were assigned to clean the weight room after the football team used the facility. Others were assigned to answer phones and other clerical work for Athletic Department admin­istrators. 
Tollison tried to transfer to the University of Denver, but couldn't get enough financial aid in time to attend the school. When he returned for his sophomore year after one season of Division I swimming competition, he was sent to film other teams' games and practices. 
"I didn't mind the work really, but it just didn't seem right because I came here to swim," he said. 
"It's a really relaxed system and a lot of people just don't go to their jobs. My boss felt bad for me, so he started paying me through student employ­ment." 
UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN 
Student government to file suit 
Student government officials indicated Wednesday that they will likely move ahead with a lawsuit against University of Wisconsin-Madison for failing to comply with an open-records request for last semester's course evaluation data. After four months, nearly 50 percent of departments still have not provided the Associated Students of Madison with the requested information. The Freedom of Information Act makes most university documents, including course evaluations, open to the public. Two weeks ago, ASM officials said they would file a lawsuit against the university if departments did not comply by today. At tonight's ASM Student Council meeting, representatives will decide whether they will file suit against the university. ASM uses the data in the semiannual publication of course evalua­tion guides, which are supposed to help students make registration decisions. Because of the lack of cooperation by departments, the publication of the spring guide has been delayed. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeatm ftnx:.ast for da)'lirre conditions and high t.emper..llures 

MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY 
Martin Luther King holiday remains 
The Michigan State University Board of Trustees voted unanimously Wednesday to indefinitely continue allowing the cancellation of classes to honor Martin Luther King Jr.'s birthday. Trustee Dorothy Gonzales, a longtime sup­porter of canceling classes to honor the slain civil rights leader, said she is glad the issue is finalized. 'Tm very pleased that the majority of us were in agreement." she said Wednesday afternoon. In 1999, upon the urging of administrators, faculty and students, a three-year trial period of university-wide observance was allotted with the caution that MLK Day would remain on MSU's acade­mic calendar only if students were using the day to attend commemorative events. Attendance at university­sponsored events would determine the holiday's fate, administrators said. Event organizers say more than 1,000 people joined in the Jan. 15 march from Beaumont Tower to the Wharton Center and nearly 3,000 people crowded into the Wharton Center's Pasant Theatre to hear a speech from Kweisi Mfume, president and chief executive officer of the NAACP. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
,.,._.,,., 

®© ...... 
SUnny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy

Hi9h Low Shower• Rain T•stonna Flwn.a Snow lo• 
Via Asaocaated Press 

Atlanta 73 47 las Vegas 49 23 Portland 35 27 
Baltimore 48 40 Memphis 52 31 Sacramento 58 46 Boston 38 32 Milwaukee 31 10 St. LOUIS 38 19 
Chicago 35 12 New York 43 35 Tampa 81 65 Houston 69 46 Philadelphia 47 34 Wash DC 51 42 
• 





Friday, February 16, 2001 page 3
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Expert panel disco~ peace possibilities in Middle East 
By NICK SWEDO 
News Writer 
A panel of experts discussed the possibili­ty of peace in Middle East at the Hesburgh Center for International Studies Thursday. 
The Middle East has experienced an escalation of violence between Palestinians and Israelis since the Feb. 6 election of Prime Minister Ariel Sharon. a right-wing, hard-line leader. Palestinians still bitterly remember when Sharon. a former army general, assisted in the 1982 attack on Palestinian refugees in Lebanon. 
Notre Dame government professor Alan Dowty said currently the two groups are closer to a peace agreement than ever before. 
"Israel has recognized the PLO [Palestine Liberation Organization] as a representa­tive of the Palestinians and has negotiated with it," Do½1y said. "They have dealt with Arafat [the leader of the PLO]. who at one time was anathema to Israelis. Most Israelis today accept a Palestinian state in principle. In 1967, probably no more than 10 percent of the Israeli public was ready to accept the idea of a Palestinian state." 
Palestine, a historic region that includes Jerusalem, became part of Israel in 1948. A Palestinian state does not legally exist now. even though Palestinians view the Israelis as occupying their territory. 

"The Palestinians. for their part, have accepted the principle of a Palestinian state in 22 percent or what was at one time the British mandate of Palestine," Dowty said. "In other words accepting not only the legitimacy of Israel, but also an Israel that occupies the other 78 percent of the origi­nal Palestine mandate which from their perspective was a very huge concession." 
He added, however, that a peace agree­ment is still a long way off. Some smaller problems have been solved, and now the two groups are trying to solve the larger, more difficult problems. such as who should control Jerusalem. Another issue to be decided is what to do about Palestinian refugees who want to reclaim the land their ancestors lost when the United Nations established Israel after World War II. 
Peter Wallensteen, the head of the Department of Peace and Conflict research at Uppsala University in Sweden said that in past world crises, effective solutions were not ones that involved violence or repressive measures. He said effective solu­tions have been achieved by coming up with "new ideas, a new formula or a new suggestion" to approach the problem. He gave three ideas about how to help achieve peace. 
First, he said secret negotiations between Sharon and Arafat were possible. A second possibility is a unilateral move by one of the two groups. 

• 

SARAH FUCHS/The Observer Panelists met at the Hesburgh Center for International Studies Thursday to discuss the possibilities for peace between Israelis and Palestinians. Although peace agreements will still take time, panelists were optimistic. 


"Many ideas have already been tried in the peace process and have been rejected," Wallensteen said. "That means one has to think harder to come up with ideas." 

• •• Sacred Heart Parish Center has rooms available for your parents . • • Weekend cost is $60.00 per parent. • •• Whether you stay two, three, or four nights . • • Rooms are available Thursday through Sunday . 
• • . 
. • . .• For reservations, call 219-631-7512 
• •• •. 

"The third thing," he said, "is that there is a need for a third party [in negotiations]. The Clinton administration had played that role, and we don't know yet about the Bush admin­istra tio n and what [Secretary of State Colin] Powell will do when he is traveling around the Middle East. But I think that 
/n1E" 

there is an expectation that the U.S. should play such a role." 
The last speaker. Notre Dame govern­ment professor Dan Lindley, said he does not believe that peace will come to the region anytime soon. 
"No one wants peace in terms acceptable to the other," he said. "It's not clear that anyone wants peace at all. Furthermore, both sides are pervaded by the perception that they have been duped by the other and that the other is not a very sincere peace partner. For these reasons, I don't think that peace is likely in the near term." 
He also discussed U.S. strategic interests in the region. 
"First and foremost," he said, "the prima­ry U.S. strategic and material interest in the 
Middle East is oil ... oil 
affects us, our allies, and 
world stability. Our second 
interest is weapons of mass destruction. missile prolifera­
REsoRrnGrxmR 
tion by enemy states now
S T ~I .\ !{ Y I. o fl i; !: 
called the states of concern." 
Summer Employment (;lacier National Park, Montana The Resort at Glacier St. \fary Lodge 
lk a part of the team! 

For more information call: 
1-800-368-3689 
.:\pply Online <~7; 

www.glacierparkjobs.com 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
-Used Books bought and sold -25 Categories ofBooks -25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock -Out-of-Print search servke -Appraisals large and small 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 

SCHOOL OF ARCHITECTURE 
OPEN HOUSE 
EXPO ROMA 
2001 
The University ofNotre Dame School ofArchitecture Class of2002 cordially invites you to share in 
a celebration ofgood times together and a presentation of student work from the Rome Studies Program. 
Festivities will begin with a lecture and reception in the Bond Hall Lobby at 4:30 pm Friday, February 16, 2001. 

Charles Ramirez Berg 
University of T~xas, Austin 

Monday, February 19, 2001 
4:00 P.M 210/214 McKenna Hall 
Institute for Latino Studies Keough Institute for Irish Studies 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 16, 2001 
Young visits SMC, discusses attitudes toward welfare today 
By KATIE McVOY News Writer 
Thomas Jefferson may have had the wrong idea when he said that self-sufficient families create the ideal republic. According to politi­cal philosopher Iris Marion Young, Jefferson and most current politi­cal theorists and politicians have confused the idea of self-sufficien­cy with autonomy and this is where the problem with our wel­fare system lies. 
During her lecture . on "Autonomy, Self-sufficiency, and Welfare Justice" Thursday night, Young suggested that the continu­ous problem with the American Welfare system is that its support­ers justify the system based on the non-existent idea of self-sufficien­cy. 
"Self-sufficiency is an illusion," Young said. "The idea of self-suffi­ciency to which those who passed [the 1996 Welfare reform bill] turn [for justification of the bill] is con­ceptually problematic." 
Young's conclusion was that a welfare system that forces people to make choices without personal freedom is a denial of autonomy and contradicts a human ideal. Political philosophers such as Locke and Rousseau have based their political philosophy on the idea of self-sufficiency. According to Young, a distinction needs to be made between this illusory idea of self-sufficiency and the true ideal of autonomy. 
"Self-sufficiency brings to mind an ideal of a kind of life in which we can meet our material and emotional need without having to rely on other people," Young said. "[A society based on this idea] is a very seductive dream." 
However, it is this "seductive dream" that causes major prob­lems in the United State's social welfare system. Most American public policy operates under the assumption that citizens need to be self-sufficient. However, the idea ofself-sufficiency is in opposi­tion to a society that operates on a system of interdependence. 
"Only a moment's reflection shows we exist with significant interdependence," Young reminded her· audience. "Interdependence is part of the human condition." 

The resturant voted 
Open 6:30 am -2:00 pm M-F 
7:00 am -2:00 pm Sat-Sun 
188 • PE.EP 
i:::I:I:~[~~~limiiI1m1~lM(i1!{[!!M1lf:lMJiim~;@imr@mrnmrn@t~ll@lmt!~~:!imt1JitMilMWfM@Itm
"''"""'~"'"~-~-,.~::~~..:::::i:~::::::,.::::: .~~:~:::~:::xi:::>:::::::~:::::i~:ii.~@i::::-:tl,.,.i:~?::-­
::J;:::::::::::::::::::~):. ):;:!{::i::~*1:~»::~:-::~t :~!(,:,· -~f-.:.. ;.·....-i·-:::I:~::•··:::_ ..-w.~:::::::::~~:::: ';•;o.. -~=~:l~i".·:~\I::: ... -i~:i-:::~::•:•:~~::\::*:::t::;~-»--m::;::::•:;:• ./•::~/<
...·::::::·
•:•:.·•:•:.~:•:~:.:.~... • 1:,t,1/.:,:,:•:0:•:.~Z•,•:•:~•:. -.-~. ;.:• -'.' : :~~. ....~:,.·.:.:-:-:. ):-.:•. ·:'.' • /.:• J ·?:,• , ..,:.~:-?-:,:::~$:-;-:.:•:•:•:•:u,•.~~:-, .\.:>.,:-.·,~:•.•:. 
•••••,1,V.''.',1,•,••••• •.-,•;1l 1.\".>,V'V, ·•,••'I ·~••• ... ""'" J~,._ ••••••' ·~•'• •,.•' ••1 · •••' · •••u_-.·•••• 0 •u-.-,:i'• ,"t'
.::::::::::::::~*!::$:~:~:::::::~:-:-:«•:•:-.-..::~~::::~!!:!:.~*:::: -&::::· }~::: ~ -l· ~-'.:~::::•1;::~:.:•:::•.•:::::• }::::-: _.:~~ ..-1;:!>:· 3:::::::: -J.~~•~::~:~:~~::::::~>J::>.• :::•::
::::~:::::~~:@{:$:J{ft.e::::::»{f*.:::::::::~!*~~~:$::: ·,1·,· ·:$::: '.~ J;,f ·, :::::: -=;,(~•~.:t:~~:•: :::::•~ ;::.....::::: ._,..~:: .; ..'~$ix:$:::~~:~*~<-~:..-,. t,.•
o;,....,.

~~:~:=~1;;;.:>•-~
i1rn@:mf11J::·..::•::lillll~l;-:•:::•:1r1::\'f·;;;···;?"trr·t·:::•::;lm :::'.:'. i\::: :.;:~: . ~:~·<::·\~it ..: { 
;,:.:-:•:•:-:-:-:-:-:-:,:-,.:•:•:•:•:•11::~-:..:1".......-:-~:-:-:-:-:111t.,...;-:1:t•:-:-:-:-:-:11t;x-:-:,-i:-..:1.;.:.;-....:1111i.,:,··. ( . :-:-:-:-:•:*: 
lil1-¦II-U 

Although many middle-class Americans do not recognize this interdependence, it is part of their daily lives. Workers depend on their employers and these employ­ers, in turn, rely on each other, foreign competitors, and the mar­ket itself. 
"We dwell in webs of interde­pendence," Young said. 
The question then arises that if self-sufficiency is an illusion, why are appeals to it so successful. Young replied to this question by saying that these appeals are suc­cessful because self-sufficiency is confused with autonomy, and it is autonomy that is truly the good ideal. 
Making a distinction between moral and personal autonomy, Young defined personal autonomy as "being able to determine your own projects and goals and how you're going to live your life with­out having to answer to anyone else for those goals and without having to obey their orders about how you'll live your life." 
It is in this ideal of autonomy that social welfare programs should be based. 
Young argued that interdepen­dence was a necessary part of autonomy because making autonomous decisions requires social support. She said Americans achieve their skills through a sys­tem of interdependence. Based on this background, Young showed that any public policy built on the idea of self-sufficiency (which lacks interdependence) instead of autonomy will be ineffective. 
Based on the idea that autono­my is grounded in interdepen­dence, Young concluded that the autonomy of all people depends on social support. "Especially the poor people need a good deal of social support to be autonomous," Young said. 
Although she did not specify a particular system, Young suggest­ed a system of social welfare that is contrary to the 1996 Welfare Reform Act, which required time restrictions and work require­ments in order for recipients to receive benefits. 
Young spoke as part of the Women in Philosophical Landscapes series, which is in its third year at Saint Mary's. Young is a professor of political science at the University of Chicago. 
Her focus is on political theory and feminist social theory, and she has authored several books including Justice and the Politics of Difference and Throwing Like a Girl and Other Essays in Feminist Philosophy and Social Theory. Young will return to Stapleton Lounge Friday at 12:30 p.m. to discuss "Power, Violence, and Legitimacy," a discussion which is open to the public. 
Shape Your Future in Health Care as a Doctor of Chiropractic 
• 
Ifyou want to help people get well and stay well. 

• 
If you want to work independently as a self-employed chiropractic physician 

• 
If you want to achieve the financial success commensurate with your professional standing as a primary care physician 

• 
Ifyou want to establish your position in the community as a well-respected Doctor of Chiropractic 


If any of these criteria match your professional 
aspirations, please contact Logan College of 
Chiropractic, today! 


1-800-533-9210 
1n1 "·.lvgan.cdu loganadm(il'logan.edu 1851 Schoettler Road. Chesterfield. MO 63017 An Equal Opportunity Institution offligher Education 
. "·
.. ·,,....... 
. ••

WG~ 
COLLEGE • OF t cAIRoPRActlc 

There will be an important meeting for all those interested in running for positions of 
class officers, Off-Campus Co-Presidents and Off-Campus Senator, 
on Monday February 19th at 7:45pm in 203 Lafortune. 
-, 


ATION 
Friday, February 16, 200 I COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Giant panda numbers still low : The giant panda is still facing extinction because its mountain forest home is disappearing, the World Wildlife Fund said Thursday. In a report to mark the WWF's 40th anniversary, the organization said loss of suitable habitat in China's Sichuan province was the major threat to the survival of the panda, which has a wild population of about 1,000. 
Farmers trade daughters for debt: 
Afghanistan dirt-poor farmers, unable to pay their debts because of a Taliban ban on growing the flower that produces opium, are trading their young daughters to clear their debts, U.N. and Taliban officials say. Farmers traditionally use opium as a source of credit to borrow against the next year's harvest, said Bernard Frahi, director of the U.N. Drug Control Program in neighboring Afghanistan. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Beverage giant recalls bottles: 
Coca-Cola Enterprises has recalled some two­liter bottles sold last year in Georgia and Florida, saying they were bottled under unsanitary conditions in Jacksonville, Fla. Georgia Agriculture Commissioner Tommy Irvin said the Food and Drug Administration alerted him Thursday of the problem with 25,000 cases of Coca-Cola Classic. The bottles were sold last October, and all the recalled soda likely has been consumed or thrown away. 
Accident injures 13 people: A mini­van collided with a sedan at an intersection Thursday afternoon injuring 13 people, including members of a Chicago elementary school basketball team. A Chicago Fire Department spokesman said several of the victims are children ages 12-to 14-years old from a school team that was on its way to a basketball game at a nearby park. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Officials wait for prisonapproval: Approval to build a new feder­al prison in Terre Haute could come by April, barring public opposition, a Bureau of Prisons official said. If approved, construc­tion on the estimated $80 million maximum security facility would begin within a year, said Pamela Chandler, site specialist for the Bureau of Prisons. The federal bureau has finished its final environmental impact statement for the Terre Haute site. A review period for public comment on that report starts Friday ai;id ends March 19. 
Market Watch 2/1 5 
Dow 
10891.02 +95.61 
]ONES 


S&P 500: 1326.61 +10.69 
TOPS VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURllY %CHANGESGAIN PRICE CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +4.89 + 1.44 30.81 WORLDCOM INC (WCOM) -7.49 -1.31 16.19 NASDAQ 100 SHAR (QQQ) + 1.65 +0.95 58 40 INTEL CORP (INTC) +4.94 + l.69 35.81 JDS UNIPHASE UDSU) +9.38 +3.87 45.12 
ISRAEL 

Sharon, Barak reach agreement 
Associated Press 

JERUSALEM 
Prime Minister-elect Ariel Sharon and Ehud Barak agreed on formation of a unity government Thurs­
d a y • w i t h Barak's party getting the key defense portfo­l i o . 


Sharon
Israeli media said Barak would be the new defense minister. 
Sharon and Barak met for two hours Thursday 
EL SALVADOR 

and Barak -who was resoundingly defeated by Sharon only last week ­accepted Sharon's offer of 
the  top  Cabinet  post,  
Israeli TV  and  radio  
reported.  
Bar ­ 



a k ' s office said in a state­ment that a decision w a s made to set up a unity government, and that Barak's Labor party would receive the defense and foreign ministries. Officials 
close to Barak were not available for comment on the media reports of his agreement to stay in gov­ernment. 
Violence persisted Thursday as two mortar shells fired by Palestinians fell on a Jewish settlement in the Gaza Strip, and Israeli soldiers killed a Palestinian who was trying to infiltrate another settle­ment there. 
No casualties were reported in the mortar attack at Netzarim, an iso­lated enclave in central Gaza. The settlement had come under mortar attack twice before. A Palestinian police officer whom Israel believed to be responsible for the earlier attacks was killed Tuesday by Israeli helicopters firing rockets. 

The Palestinian killed near Kfar Darom, another isolated settlement in Gaza, was identified as Nasser Hassanat, 23. He was a member of a Palestinian security force, according to documents he carried. 
Funerals for young Israeli soldiers and a civil­ian -eight were killed Wednesday by a Palestinian bus driver ­weighed heavily on politi­cians seeking a coalition between Sharon's Likud party and Labor. 

Associated Press 
TEPETITAN 

Their adobe houses in ruins, resi­dents of this village amid sugar cane fields sought drinking water and food Thursday and prayed the ground would stop trembling. 
Many went to nearby rivers to wash clothes or draw water for cooking. A lucky few got a ration of drinking water from the Salvadoran Red Cross. 
"We're out of everything, water, milk for my son," said Silvina Hernandez, who was carrying 1-year-old Miguel on her arm. 
She was among 3,000 town residents in San Vicente province who suffered losses from Tuesday's 6.6-magnitude earthquake that left at least 276 dead. Government officials say they fear another 39 were buried by landslides. 
The small Central American nation was struck by a magnitude-7.6 earth­quake on Jan. 13 that killed at least 844 people. 
Foreign aid has begun pouring into El Salvador but international agencies say they need more help. 
In San Vicente Thursday, a 65-mem­ber delegation from the Mexican army, including several doctors, set up a field hospital in a dusty soccer field. 
Helicopters, trucks, rescue workers and construction crews were coming in from Guatemala, the United States, Taiwan, Venezuela, Panama and Nicaragua. Queen Sofia of Spain, who is visiting the region, was expected to announce a cash donation. 
In Rome, the World Food Program, running short of food for El Salvador's earthquake victims, appealed for money Thursday to replenish supplies. 
Executive Director Catherine Bertini said the agency has enough food in El Salvador for 200,000 people for two weeks. 



Monday February 19, 2001 9:00 pm at Reckers 
Come bid on a meal with your favorite ND professor, faculty member, or student! 
Bill Kirk Coach Mike Brey Dr. Gail Walton Rebecca Davidson Fr. William Beauchamp, csc Fr. Gary Chamberland, csc Fr, Patrick Gaffney, csc Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, csc Fr. Wilson Miscamble, csc Fr. Mark Poorman, csc Fr. Tim Scully. csc Fr. Bill Wack, csc Justin Dunn Kevin Huie Kevin White Prof. Edward Hums Prof. Lawrence Cunningham Prof. Bruce Auerbach Prof. Jacqueline Brogan Prof. Ramzi Bualuan Prof. Christian Moevs Prof. James McKenna Prof. Susan Ohmer Prof. Anre Venter Prof. Richard Taylor Grant Irons Mike Brown Nick Setta Rocky Boiman The Undertones 
Women's basketba[I team members; Ruth Riley. Le'Tania Severe, lmani Dunbar, Kelley Siemon, Meaghan Leahy, Karen Swanson, Alicia Ratay, · 
/ 

Ericka Haney, and Amanda Barksdale. 
:,.All pre>ceeds. gc, tc, the Arneric~n Di.:abetes..\ ~ AE=>s.e>cf...sitf e>n. /.. )
> De>r1•t Fe>rg~t 'Ye>t..1r ',,1 Wc::1111~-t. c::>r Ch~c;kbc::>c::>kl 
-------·· 

page 6 
Profs' book earns Choice Magazine award 
criteria for judging the
Special to The Observer 
political, social. and humanitarian impact of
Two political scientists at 
economic sanctions and
Notre Dame have received provide detailed case stud­
Choice Magazine's ies of the sanctions and
Outstanding Academic Title 
embargoes imposed on
award for their book, "The Libya, Sudan, Afghanistan,
Sanctions Decade: 
Cambodia, Angola, Sierra
Assessing UN Strategies in Leone, Somalia, Liberia andthe 1990s." 
Rwanda. They also recom­The book was written by 
mend new sanctions poli­
George Lopez, professor of 
cies to the international
government and interna­
community.
tional studies and fellow in 
The authors interviewed
Notre Dame's Joan B. Kroc prominent U.N. policymak­
Institute for International 
ers, including the chairs of
Peace Studies, and David all sanctions committees.
Cortright, guest lecturer in 
and the staffs of thethe Kroc Institute. 
international body's secre­
Commissioned by the 
tariat and Security Council.
International Pe ace Among those assisting
Academy and funded by the 
Lopez and Cortright were
government of Canada, the 
two former Notre Dame
book is published by Lynne 
peace studies graduate stu­
Rienner Publishers. 
dents, Richard W. Conroy,
Choice Magazine's who was graduated fromOutstanding Academic 
the University in 1987 and
Titles were chosen from 
received master's and doc­
approximately 6,700 titles 
toral degrees from Notre
reviewed during the year Dame in 1990 and 1994,2000. The selections were 
respectively, and J aleh
chosen for their excellence 
Dashti-Gibson, who
in scholarship and presen­received master's and doc­tation, the significance of 
toral degrees from the
their contributions to the University in 1992 andfield, and their value as 
1998, respectively.
treatment of a specific sub­
The award was
ject. 
announced in the JanuaryIn the book. Lopez and 
2001 issue of Choice
Cortright propose a set of 
Magazine. 

Friday, February 16, 200I
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 

·• •'' . ,' /) 

~.. ~ ____ ......\;_.re--~ Live Community. 
Live Brotherhood. 

As a Brother in the Congregation of Holy Cross you will share in a rich tradition of unselfish service and becom·e a brother to many. 
For more information about beginning a new life as a 
Brother of Holy Cross, contact Br. Donald Gibbs, C.S.C. 
Ri{O-fHERS OF l--IOLY CROSS P.O. Box 460. Notre Dame, IN 46556 e-mail: dgibbs@hcc-nd.edu (219)-251-2222 
Friday, February 16, 2001 page 7
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Rotoplast founder earns Dooley Award 
. Capozzi wins humanitarian alumni award 
By KELLY HAGER 
News Writer 
Angelo Capozzi, a 1956 Notre Dame graduate and cofounder of Rotoplast International, Inc., will receive the 2001 Dr. Thomas A. Dooley Award from the Alumni Association. Each year, this award is presented to a Notre Dame graduate who has engaged in outstanding humani­tarian service. 
"Dr. Capozzi has helped so many children around the world with Rotoplast," said Chuck Lennon, director of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. "His service to the community is overwhelming." 
For many years, Capozzi has been recognized for his work with the poor in underdeveloped countries. He began as a volun­teer surgeon in 1976 for InterPlast, a non-profit organi­zation that gives medical care to underprivileged children around the world. In 14 medical mis­sions with InterPlast, he was responsible for surgeries on more than 1,400 children. 
In association with Rotary International, Capozzi founded Rotoplast International, Inc .. a world community service project that performs free reconstruc­tive surgery on underprivileged children. Formed in 1992, it attempts to eliminate cleft lips and palates in all children by the year 2025. Since then, he has. completed Rotoplast medical missions in Chile, Argentina and Venezuela, where he has con­tributed to reconstructive surgery on more than 2,000 children. 
Capozzi was selected by a committee of Alumni Board members who are responsible for reviewing nominees and selecting a recipient each year. Until recently. the award had to be given to a young alumnus, within 10 years of graduating. 
However, according to Lennon, they had so many nomi­nees over the age limit that they had to make it available to everyone. Currently, the award is given to an alumnus, living or dead. 
The award was named after Tom Dooley, a 1948 Notre Dame graduate. After graduating from medical school, Dooley traveled to Asia where he established hospitals in Vietnam and Laos. During this time. he also wrote four books and published other articles. 
When he returned to Notre Dame in 1960 to speak at com­mencement, President Eisenhower, also at the ceremo­ny, commented that Dooley was "the most respected citizen of the United States." 
Dooley died of cancer at 34. The Dooley award was estab­lished in 1983 in memory of him for his never-ending devotion to the poor of Southeast Asia, his fondness of prayer at the Grotto and his courageous death from cancer. 
"The Dooley award is given to those graduates who exemplify and model what the Alumni Association believes and sup­ports -those committed to faith and service," said Lennon. "Reasons for choosing Capozzi are quite obvious." 

Nike strike tests WRC's procedures 
By MYRA McGRIFF 
News Writer 
The Workers' Rights Commission had its first chance to test its procedures for pro­tecting workers' rights when Nike workers in Mexico went on strike. 
On Jan. 9, 700 to 800 work­ers at the Kukdong Nike factory in Atlixco. Mexico went on a work stoppage to protest the management's violation of their rights to unionize. With a newly established working board, the WRC was able to react to the situation. 
"We sent a small delegation to investigate on Jan. 23 after receiving a complaint from fac­tory workers. When we got there we were the only moni­tors there at the time," said Marikah Mancina. 
Mancina, a Purdue student and member of United Students Against Sweatshops (USAS), accompanied the WHC on a trip to the Kukdong factory to verify the workers' complaints. Working along with Cereal, a non-governmental organization in Mexico, the WRC was able to verify the complaints of the workers. 
"Workers were not being paid a minimum wage, they were abused physically. and 
CORRECTIONS 

. 
Thursday's Observer incorrectly stated that the Demetra Smith/Jogeld Andre ticket had endorsed Brooke Norton. Smith made the endorsement alone. 

. 
In Wednesday's Observer the photograph on page 1 misidentified presidential candidate Ryan Becker as Brian Becker. 


The Observer regrets these errors. 

Earth Systems Science and Astronomy programs are offered for Science and Non-science majors at Columbia University Biosphere 2 campus near Tucson, Arizona. 
ALL PROGRAMS TAUGHT BY COLUMBIA FACULTY! 


SCHOLARSHIPS AVAILABLE FOR NOTRE DAME STUDENTS! 

APPLY TO BIOSPHERE 2 FOR SUMMER SESSIONS NOW! 
Summer programs: 

• Earth Systems Field School II -4 credits, June 2001 
• Summer of Stars -5 credits, June-July 2001 
• Earth Systems Field School I -6 credits, July-August 2001 
• Biodiversity Institute -5 credits, July-August 2001 
Visit Biosphere 2 at www.bio2.edu/education (800) 992-4603 or notre_dame@bio2.edu 
they were served raw meat and food with worms." said Mancina. 
Although other monitoring organizations, like the Fair Labor Association (FLA), visited to the Kukdong factory. the WRC was the first to publish a preliminary report. The Jan. 24 report was released not only to the colleges on their register ­including Saint Mary's -but also to the public. 
The report outlined the code of conduct violations in the fac­tory and suggested actions for universities to take if their apparel was produced in the Kukdong factory. The WRC rec­ommended universities write a letter to Nike urging the factory to reinstate the strikers and let them fairly unionize. The WRC hopes that if a large college endorser sends a letter to Nike, the company will meet the workers' demands. 
University Associate Vice President and Counsel Bill Hoye said both the WRC and the FLA have been in contact and told him none of the col­lege's apparel is being pro­duced in the Kukdong factory. Notre Dame did not and will not write a letter to Nike encouraging them to reinstate the striking workers as sug­gested by the WRC. 
"We are working as a mem­ber of the FIA and the Fl.A is taking action. But also our code of conduct does not apply to the Kukdong incident," said Hoye. 
After reading the report. the University of Michigan. one of Nike's top college endorsers wrote to Nike. 
"The President of U of M wrote a letter to Nike saying that Nike violated its code of conduct and Nike should ensure a safe return for all the workers to their jobs and a fair union election," said University of Michigan student and WRC member Peter Romer­Friedman. 
Although most workers have been on a work stoppage for the past four weeks and an agreement between factory management and workers has yet to be reached, students are pleased with the action of the WRC. They feel the WRC took immediate, progressive action to secure workers rights and get them back on the line. 
"The FLA is still gathering information before putting these workers back on the line while the WRC is saying these are the findings and this is what needs to happen. These workers need to go back to work and that is what the WRC 
is  trying  to  insure,"  said  
Maureen  Capilla  of Peace  
Makers.  


Paragon Services is seeking full & part-time merchandisers for the South Bend area. Flexible scheduling. Must be willing to travel to South Bend area grocery stores. 10001hr to start. Paid drive time and mileage. No experience necessary. Will train. Work Sunday thru Thursday 8pm-4am. Work 4 hrs or 8 hrs, 1 day or all 5 days. We can schedule around your school schedule. 
1-800-968-7685 ext.BOO 

ForonlVsiXdollars.vou can purchase one bunch olten daffodils, I andforJustfourdollars more,vou can purchase aslenderglass vase ; thatisJustperfect for vour bouquet! j 
The flowers Will be delivered to the donns on lllursdav, March~­
I 
mI

~ All proceeds from our Daffodil Davs goes to the American Cancer W, Societvforuse in cancer researclL educauon. programs. and patient 
!

Iservices here In StJoseph Coumv. la
I

~ ND SbJdents: Bring the sign ol Spring and the Dower of hope to vour 
~

I dont1 roont You can use die orderlont1 belowto place an order Wilhi Jessica Brookshire in 204 Rons Spons Center or call 1-5829lor more ~ 
~

I inlon11alioa
ij I 
StMarv's Contact: AdmiSSions Office122 I leMans Hall 284-4587 
I 

r-----------------------,;
1 I wantto order_bunches of Daffodils with_ vases. 
.I·:,. •j i 

: Name:____ • •· -'. :~ 1 AddreSS: ___HallNotreDame,IN.46556 ;.... == ..,,/ ,II Mv coDlrlbllllon ol$_to tight cancer IS enclosed. ·r.f./~y=··• sIj
L---------~-------------Ji
~--IBflaa-•Bi-~~flSi-~~-~~-~~~ 
page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMEMT Friday, February 16, 2001 
TUDOR KING TUDOR HOUSE 


TUTORING!! 

Come to 1010 Flanner Hall on March 1 at 7:00 p.m. 
For more information please call 1-4447 or visit: http://ieiweb.f lanner.nd~edu:8020/ 

' 
page 9 

Friday, February 16, 2001 The Observer . NEWS 
CANADA 
Ban on Brazilian beef may soon be lifted 
Associated Press 
OTTAWA 

The senior Canadian scientist on a fact-finding mission to Brazil indicated Thursday the ban on Brazilian beef imports could be lifted next week. 
Speaking from Brazil, Brian Evans of the Canadian Food Inspection Agency said the inspectors from Canada, the United Sates and Mexico will return home by Monday. con­sult with their governments, and discuss a synthesis report Tuesday. 
retaliatory trade sanctions and the refusal by some dockwork­ers to unload Canadian cargo. 
Evans said several thousand European cattle were imported to Brazil for breeding purposes, and Canada wants a guarantee they won't end up in the meat supply. 
He welcomed an announce­ment by the Brazilian govern­ment that it would try to buy all the imported European cattle to place them under govern­ment control. 
"This underlines significantly the shared objective and invest­ment that we and Brazil have 




O
THE page 10 BSERVER Friday, February 16, 2001 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Souch Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINFSS MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Tim Lane 
NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Mattingly VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smith SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARYS EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: Elizabeth Lang 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Bob Woods GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL (NF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.................................. ...631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME....................631-4541 8USINFSS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NJ,,"WS...........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
YIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 
observer .sports. I@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc.l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, spores, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from che Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-co-the minute forecasts  movit:Mmusic for weekly student reviews  
advertise for ixilicies and races of print ads  online features for spe­cial campus coverage  
archives to search for articles published after August 1999  about The Observer ro meet the editors and staff  

POLICIES 
The Observer is chc independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by ixilicies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and muse include contact information. 
Qut:stiom regarding Observerpolicies should be dirrct­ed to Editor in ChiefMike Connolly. 

Norton should adopt broad ideas 
With its election of Brooke Norton and included in Norton/Moscona's platform Brian Moscona as president and vice that the new administration should president, the Notre Dame student body adopt. has sent a message: they are happy with Norton/Moscona should extend an olive the way student government is running branch to their former rivals and inte­now. grate them into their admin­
Norton/Moscona will OJhe istration.
userver

continue the programs Demetra Smith and Yogeld begun by the Andre brought up important O'Donoghue/Norton issues of social justice and
Editorial 

administration. It will expand some O'Donoghue/Norton initia­tives as well as create new programs which continue the philosophies of the O'Donoghue/Norton administration. 
Norton/Moscona has the platform the student body clearly believes is best. They are the leaders of the students and their programs should be given top pri­ority. 
The other six tickets' platforms should not be ignored, however. There were too many innovative and positive ideas not 
community service that could improve the relationship between Notre Dame and South Bend. and received kudos from much of the Notre Dame community. 
Smith and Andre's plan to create ser­vice oriented scholarships was one of the most innovative and intriguing plans of the election. Norton/Moscona should adopt this plan into their platform and make Smith/Andre's vision a reality. 
Victoria Fetterman and Maureen Gottlieb had a realistic and effective plan for increasing campus safety. Gottlieb/Fetterman had a plan to walk around campus with security and identi­fy the dark areas that need more light and the isolated areas that require call boxes. This would be a simple step toward increasing campus safety. Norton/Moscona should ask Gottlieb and Fetterman to help implement this pro­gram at Notre Dame. 
The runner-up ticket of Ryan Becker and Nikki McCord should also not be ignored by Norton/Moscona. Plans to bring back SafeRide and elect more stu­dent representatives to the Campus Life Council are fresh solutions to old prob­lems. 
Norton/Moscona have the experience and the insider know-how to solve the problems facing Notre Dame today. They must not forget, however, to include new ideas and new programs to ensure stu­dent government does not go stale. 
Remembering Junior Parent's Weekend 
Junior Parent's Weekend is an extremely worthwhile way for Notre Dame students to share a moment with their parents and University officials. The events allow the University to pro­
mote itself, bring great pride to par­ents whose children are living the Notre Dame "experience" and give students the opportunity to showcase their col­legiate lives to fami­


ly and friends. 

I recently came Gary Caruso upon a photograph of my family speaking to then Capitol University Comments President Father Theodore Hesburgh during my Junior Parent's Weekend more than two decades ago. The photograph, however, jogged my memory in quite a different way than expected. 
Since I served as the chairman of the weekend's events, I should have been able to reminisce about my family sit­ting with University officials at the head table, about the countless hours of hard work our committee performed to secure hotel reservations and orga­nize a concert, about the beautifully celebrated mass or about the goof at the Sunday morning breakfast where those who should have been sitting at the head table. sat in the audience. 
Instead, I thought about another weekend in my life when I cleared out an office. 
I thought of my lonely, painful task last Memorial Day weekend when I packed my father's memorabilia fol­lowing his unexpected passing. It was a numbing process that I alone per­formed. It was a weekend that bumped its way above Junior Parent's Weekend in my mind. 
For two days during last Memorial Day weekend I sorted and packed items representing decades worth of events and 11 years of my father's tenure as mayor of our city. I had in my hands the public life of my father which was ending so symbolically in tens of boxes. 
Arranged in the mayor's office among the dozens of autographed photos of himself "an orphan., when both of his parents passed away a dozen years ago. At the time, those words seemed so weak to me -they had little mean­ing since my parents were still with me. 
It is truly tragic that most of us take family and friends for granted until one of them passes away. We always ask why it happened and how unfair it seems. But they serve as harsh 
entertainment stars and politicians that reminders for us to make more of our included Presidents Reagan, Bush and relationships now, to pay closer atten­Clinton, were prominently dis-ption to the wonders that life pro-played photographs ofme-~ides. 
one talking to President Hopefully, this writer can Clinton and the other of me serve as a gentler version sitting at my desk. Their for juniors and their fami­positioning in the office -1:;~ ~ lies who are celebrating 
were symbols of his love  
for me, which made  
them the hardest  
items for me to pack.  
Throughout it all,  
the most personal  ~~~~]  
item I handled was  
my father's handwrit­ 
ten calendar showing  
his hospital and sur­ 
gical appointments  
the week before,  
along with future  
events he expected to  
attend in June and July.  
How I wished that I  ---~  
had just one more hour  
from that calendar, any  

hour, to speak with him. How 
I wish now that I had spent 


more personal time with him dur­ing my Junior Parent's Weekend rather than serving as the chair of the events. 
Today I think of how my father lost both of his parents before he reached the age of 30. How unfair it seems since I enjoyed his company for almost 50 years. I also think of my dentist, my classmate since first grade, who called 
this weekend. For those who partic­
ipate in the events this weekend, it will be one of excitement for 
.,.~-,,,,..-• some, of interest to most and remem­bered to some extent by all. The outcome and significance will be what its partici­pants make of their opportunities. It can be the weekend to savor and remember for a lifetime even when another weekend of clean­ing out an office creeps out of a calendar years from now. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame '73, served in President Clinton's adminis­tration as a Congressional and public affairs director. His column appears every other Friday, and his Internet address is Hottline@aol.com. 
The opinions expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 

gr-::::::::::::::=:====::--,:_:-_:-_:-_:-_:-.:--•~r:::::=================::::-, ~ SUPERMODELS THAT'5 ! I DON'T KNOW HOW
I SET UP A OAT£ @ DON'T LOO~ 5ILLY. i TO U5E A VASE. 00
WITH THE SUPER­----.1 i GOOD lN ;, 

'<OU r-\IND IF l THROW 
~ ~
1"\0DEL I. MET ON 


,....,.....,..., ~ 
THOSE lN THE. TRA$H 7
THE IN,ERNET. 
..
.. 
... 
" ! 
c 
:::, 
"" 
"' 
"' 
\l'" 
,f 
...'.!.. 

" ,___.i.....
__.....;1...,L.LL-.J.--~-J...J.__,J 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The pressures ofbeing a parent are equal to any pressure on earth. To be a conscious parent is a responsibility which most ofus. including me, avoid most ofthe time because it's too hard.,. 
John Lennon musician 




O
THE Friday, February 16, 2001 BSERVER page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Differentiating between the clothes and the person 
Clothes do not define ones self 
This letter is in response to the Feb. 14 let­ter entitled, "What are your clothes saying?" To begin, the sweeping generalization that many Notre Dame girls dress in outfits such as, "skintight red tube tops, short black miniskirts, figures clearly revealed with little left to the imagination," is simply not true. 
However, what is the problem if a Notre Dame girl does decide to dress in clothes that show off her figure? Often girls who dress to look good come under criticism for projecting a promiscuous image and a shallow attitude. They are assumed to be either wanton because they are dressed that way on pur­pose or naive because they don't understand what males will think when they see them dressed in that manner. These accusations are inaccurate. 
Dressing to show off one's figure can demonstrate comfort, confidence and self­respect. Aesthetics are important in life and there is no shame in making one's appear­ance pleasing to others and to one's self. Students at this University sometimes dress up for tests, believing that if you look good and feel good that you will be successful and perform well. 
Why should this idea be any different when it is applied to socializing and having fun? I see no reason that girls who place a value on looking good and being proud of their bodies should be criticized or demeaned in any way. 

At its basic level the value of looking good and dressing a certain way is a personal choice and a personal opinion. To attempt to criticize or demean someone for holding this value is simply prejudiced. I find it ironic that it is the critics of girls who dress to look good that are the ones guilty of being shallow. 
Critics of the girls who can comfortably show their bodies should instead take the time to examine themselves. Judging another individual based on appearance is one of the shallowest actions one can take. It shows a lack of maturity and deep-rooted insecurity. 
If one is really looking for a meaningful relationship based on "intelligence, humor, integrity. loyalty and kindness," then one should avoid being judgmental and closed­minded. The time spent criticizing others and worrying about their image could be spent more effectively by minding one's own busi­ness. 
Luke Stanton sophomore Morrissey Hall 
February 15, 2001 

People deserve respect no matter what they wear 
I am writing in response to Wednesday's letter about the message sent out by women's clothing on campus. 
I am the costume designer from "Guys and Dolls," responsible for dressing the "sinners." Ironically. the clothing used to outfit the hookers was obtained from stu­dent closets on campus. However, I do not feel that her insulting remarks were warranted. 
Although these outfits in con­text were meant to be suggestive, I do not think that choosing to wear such clothing should auto• matically associate a woman with any particular label. How dare one person pass judgment on another due to something as triv­ial as an article of clothing. 
Not only are the girls wearing this "offensive" clothing some of the most intelligent and respectable young women I have ever met, but the girls who kindly lent their clothing to the show are as well. I think that one should not be quick to judge a girl by what she is wearing, but rather by the way she conducts herself. 
I believe that a girl should be able to dress in any way in which she is comfortable, regardless of the criticism that may be wrought by an uneducated few. I am sorry that some people find a suggestive style of dress offen­sive. but a young woman has as much of a right to dress up as she does to wear jeans and a T­shirt to class. 
For someone speaking of respect, Sheila often forgets that everyone is deserving of a basic level of human respect. I find this more appalling than any tight, lit­tle tube top. 
Kristin Kajdzik 
sophomore Pangborn Hall February 15, 200 I 

Sex is not to be feared 
I just finished reading Wednesday's article, Perhaps if men saw women in pajama pants, "Students promote chaste lifestyle." Although I not simply black pants, they would have a more am finding it extremely difficult to sit quietly in realistic perception of the average female -she this DeBartolo computer lab, painful not to run wouldn't be a simple sexual creature. outside and explode in laughter, I am going to try Now I don't mean to attack parietals (once and do so simply to convey my shear amusement again, too big a topic to address this evening), at his argument. however I do wish to address our fear of sex on 
While I don't agree or disagree with his claims campus. I feel that sex is a terribly wonderful on the appropriateness of sexual behavior before and sacred thing. I am not condemning anyone's marriage (simply too big a topic to address this decision to wait for the right person. In fact, I am evening), I am amused by his argument about in full support of saving yourself for the person sexuality here on the Notre Dame campus. you love. 
My main objection comes in Yeager~s But I firmly believe that one's reasons
-belief that, in terms of sexual activity, ~ foi;: waiting should be out of respect for "we as a university are doing great t'ftA ~ themselves and respect for their compared to big state schools ·"I• future partner. One shouldn't fear which have co-ed dorms and no ___::,-,co,-..,. sex because du Lac condemns it, or parietals." Hmm? Are we hide from it because the National though? ; Chastity Taskforce is on the ram-
Are the co-ed relationships ~~ ~ page. the Notre Dame community is INIJl,..~r.,s'i•'-¦"""-J ' One shouldn't fear sex at all. It fostering healthy ones? One --• should be an activity that takes could argue that locking up :===·-= place between two people who 
· the girls and boys at 2 a.m. 1_ __. deem each other worthy of isn't a mature way to teach ,_ _.._, sharing it. students about sex. :~::; While Yeager's article does Furthermore, one could also ~i;;.,:-:;' have some interesting points, I argue that these tactics are. _.., don't think "we are too closed-in fact, counterproductive. ~ minded to examine our own 
Why turn the opposite sex =:-views of sex while images of into an enigmatic and off-lim--the ultimately chaste humans, its body? True, students in I~;~ Jesus and Mary, are all around co-ed dorms have a lot more --.ii& _ us." opportunity to jump in bed ..,..--.....___.... No, on the contrary, I think it 
O 

with each other, but they also -,_,.•,.,_ • would be closed-minded to take 
have a greater chance of seeing \ •:--the images of Jesus and Mary their neighbor :with horrible and deem sex as a taboo and hair in the morning or tooth-"impure" subject. It would be paste drool dripping olT their rA , closed minded to accept rules and chins. " 1 not have opinions on them. 
By separating men and women in :~~---..-' If we were to do so, if we were to dorms, we are alienating men and ~ follow as sheep without opinions of our women from becoming friends. It is :r own, I think the ..hope of the world" important to learn how to foster a rela-~ Yeager seems so concerned with would be 
tionship without sex, how to behave after 2 a lot more closed-minded, a lot more doomed 
a.m. without ripping off ones clothes. and a lot more bleak. 
Moreover, it is important to learn a certain level of self-control. beyond the rules and safety Katie Cleary net5 Notre Dame has erected. Who is going to junior guard us from our own deviance once we have off-campus graduated and are in the real world? February 14, 200 I 
-~ 
RESLlr:E 
• 


Parietal priorities leave students little choice 
I was somewhat disheartened when I read today's article on parietal violations, particularly the portion about Michelle Merlo. I cannot believe that someone was given such a severe penalty for a parietal violation that was discovered because she exited a male dorm during a fire alarm. 
I had been under the mistaken impression that the University would consider the welfare of the individual in a case like this. I would think that a parietal violator, who would most likely not have been caught had there not been a fire alarm, would be treated more lightly. 
The forced move off-campus, eventually into another dorm, and ban from her former hall is appalling. I don't know the cir­cumstances surrounding Michelle's case, but I know that almost anyone can fall asleep somewhere and wake up at an odd hour by accident. If it happens to be in a guy's (or girl's) dorm. who wouldn't wait it out and leave after parietals are over? 
Rasically, if my understanding is correct, the University is saying; if you are breaking parietals for whatever reason and a fire alarm goes off, you'd better not go outside, and you'd bet­ter pray that it's just a drill. Since if you do step outside, and someone in authority sees you, you will be mercilessly thrown in front of Residence Life and effectively ostracized from the community. I don't see the sense in that. 
Sarah Ryan 
senior Pasqerilla West February 15. 200 I 


C 
ena, s 
page 12 Friday, February 16, 2001 

The humorous history 
Scene delves into the history of student government elections to 
ByTAI ROMERO 
Scene Writer 
Welcome to life at Notre Dame! Our campus is the home, sweet home of tradition, Abercrombie-clad boys and girls and perfectly manicured lawns. The cookie cutter status of our cam­pus has been magnified by the recent Student Body president elections. With six tickets presenting relatively serious and realistic platforms, the student body has been deprived of the normal chuckles conjured by farcical candidacies. 
One noticeable change this time around was a ballot devoid of our annual circus of Zahm guys. No debates featured "Star Wars" charac­ters or grandiose ideas of monkeys serving fruit from banana trees in SDH. Nor did any candidate propose the removal of the standard Notre Dame icon in favor of a green smiley face. However, with the lack of humorous rotics promising to kill the evil mother swan, while claiming control of the sun. We have not had any shortage of those candidates making a mockery of the student debates. Reportedly, some candidates have declined to speak while at the debates. Others have spo­ken in different languages in the lime­light of the moment; one person read biblical passages and another played guitar and made up clever rhymes 

Fellow Dead Heads may appreciate the stylings of David Hungeling and Matt Orsagh, who ran with the plat­form of dissolving the student govern­ment office. The most important fea­ture of the Hungeling/Orsagh ticket, though, was to bring the almighty and infamous Grateful Dead to "the Bubble." Other objectives of the '95 alums included free football tickets for students, getting rid of any events not deemed fun and downsizing of government office phones to two lines -one for incoming student calls and one for outgoing calls for purposes of 

bled with scrawling crayon. Switek 
-pinpointed the main issue for students when he said, "We wonder sometimes -would a true Hungarian eat Hungarian Noodle Bake?" Last year. 

platforms this year. 

Student Body President harassment toward 
the student body 

the campus admin­
"Campus King .. Bob
thirst for tacky poli­

istration. 
tics and bizarre antics Kersten was 

Although contact 
has remained 

successfully kidnapped with the Dead 's 
unquenched. 

publicist was con­
andfreed for a ransom
To extinguish that 

firmed, the band 
burning desire for of27 cents 

declined the 
filth and gore we offer 

l' the following histori­cal tidbits of our own student body government. We also present the disclaimer that this account is based on true characters. No names have been altered and no comedic value has been distorted. Perhaps our student body history of election fiascos dates back to 1970 when Magnesium B. Wheels and Woody ran for the prestigious offices of president and vice president. The March 6 issue of The Observer that year reported this campaign's promis­es as including "a pickle in every bag." Furthermore, Wheels planned "to plant as much grass as possible" to remedy the bare splotches on the quads. 
Notre Dame has also hosted neu­

,; 
University's request 
for a performance because no venue in the South Bend area was adequate for the rock demi­gods. 
Hungeling reports one of the proud­est moments of his administration as being the day he took office. Despite the grandeur and fame of the presi­dency, Hungeling felt honored that an assassination attempt was made on his life at the open house he spon­sored on the day of the turnover. 
Performing in ring two of the circus known as student government are the Crayola Kids. Named for their unique advertising method, Mike Switek and Don Montanaro communicated their campaign platform of renaming "mac­aroni and cheese" to "cheese and macaroni" on loose-leaf paper scrib-

Darth George and Darth Todd invaded the campus with ideas of dissolv­ing the Senate and restoring peace. Another tactic for pre­serving the miniature galaxy known as Notre Dame involved insti­gating new types of punish­ment like car­bon freezing. Yet, their ideas of molding the student govern­ment into a mind control­ling state do not win this article's Outstanding Freakish Feat Award. 
That titie 

fourth floor lavatory, which is appar­ently where the king felt democracy belonged. 
Kersten wanted to replace the stu­dent government with "an oligarchy consisting of myself and my close friends." The king also informed his peers that he would sponsor "a takeover of The Observer in order to insure the paper and the president will see eye-to­eye on 
a l l 
issues." 
Despite h i s despotic tenden­cies, the presiden­tial hope­ful was careful not to neglect t h e impor­t a n t issues in 

fake ID and all, Uncandidate was P 

Friday, February 16, 2001 page 13 

of student government 
uncover the uncanny, the unbelievable and the "Uncandidate" 

his campaign. To diversify the student body, Campus King proposed the recruitment of Yanamamo Indians from Southern Brazil. Kersten also suggested "really swell activities such as over-the-hump dances on Sunday mornings ... and negotiation for a Rocka-Rocka discotheque franchise on campus." 
King also wanted to clean up the campus by remodeling the Old Fieldhouse into a crematorium to "eliminate the problem of displaced students." Another remodeling tech­nique Kersten proposed intended to control faculty tenure was the forma­tion of a Committee for Redundancy Committee. 
Kersten derived his qualifying expe­rience for the office from his brief stint as the alternate seventh grade homeroom representative. Yet, Kersten's running mate only offered "meow!" as her curriculum vitae. 
Uncandidate, the Cat, was deemed an ineligible running mate, despite producing a University of Notre Dame Student ID. This contention to the grand poobah's candidacy was levied after a failed attempt to kidnap the candidates. Although Kersten was successfully kidnapped and freed for a ransom of 27 cents, Uncandidate the Cat 


"eluded capture by quick­ly barricading himself in the second stall of the third floor [Keenan] john." 
Despite the setback and a quest for a new vice president, Kersten remained steadfast in his pursuit for the throne. 
Divine intervention later prompted Bob "King" Kersten "to get yourself the hell out 
[from the presidential ·race}" after winning the primary election. Kersten delivered his withdrawal 
speech from a dorm balcony, address• ing an audience of 1300 students at 4 a.m. 
Despite his self-removal, Kersten used his leadership power and assured the students, "God has agreed to extend July by two weeks." 
Direct communication with "the Man" upstairs obviously paid off as evidenced by Kersten's popularity in the polls regardless of his withdrawal from the race. The Prime Mover, as he 
Divine intervention later 

referred to himself, seen the last of its successfully gar­prompted Bob "King .. days due to the nered 65 percent of increase of student
Kersten "to get yourself 

the vote. After being signatures on the 
elected. His the hell out [from the petition to run. Highness made "def· presidential race]" after Judicial Council's tight control of the
initely tentative winning the primary 
plans" including a past election pre­
election.

coronation in Sacred Heart Church and an Inaugural Ball in Lafortune. 
The invitation sent to the event read: 
"By Royal Decree your personage and consort are summoned to The Coronation and Inaugural Ball of his Divine Majesty, Ruler of both Seas, Lord Protector of the Illiterate Rabble, Speaker of the Ultimate Truth, Defender of the Faith, Lion of Judea, Son of David. Lord of the Flies. Imperial Wizard, First Violin, Lord of the Rings, Sergeant of the Shire, Thane of Cawdor. Celestial Interpreter, Dweller of the Blessed Realm, The Grey Pilgrim, the Ultimate Prime Mover, R. Calhoun Kersten, paramour of Yahweh on the seventh day of April, nineteen hundred and seventy•two in the year of our Lord. The Coronation will commence at the hour of seven on the steps of the Golden Tabernacle." 
After his official inauguration, Kersten faced his share of skeptics while in office. In response to then­Director of Campus Ministry Father William Toohey's request to see the King walk on water, Bob Kersten walked across St. Joe's Lake and evi­dence of this feat was featured in the March 17, 1972 issue of this paper. 
After walking on water. Campus King declared a period of martial law to transi­tion into his newly elected position. Later, the King auctioned off the spot of vice presi­dent for a quarter after Uncandidate the Cat refused to accept her crown at the corona­tion. 
Later Kersten reneged on the deal and appointed the cat to president after his own abdication of the position in May. Following the pattern of his up and down reign. Campus King's governmental career did not end with his 
dential election the following year resulted in the re-election of the Campus King, even though he was not a running candidate. He urged the student body. apathetic towards all candidates, to vote blank ballots. The election resulted in an overwhelming 52 percent of abstentions, calling the King into his second term. 
The sort of hoopla observed in the Campus King story and previous stu­
dent government 
races may have 
vented any tamper­
ing with results. 
Yet, the same pre­

vention has also curbed the joke factor commonly associated with the student body presidential elections. Fear not -all hope has not faded. 
Keough Rector Father Thomas Doyle presided over the student body government in 1988-1989. He cited the reason for the periodically quirky term-holders being elected as "most people chosen as president are some­one that has been in student govern­ment for awhile, but about once every four years people get thinking that they would like to have people from the outside." 
The former president offered his own theory after saying that some people get too serious about the posi­tion to which they are elected. According to this theory, we may have more shenanigans to look forward to next year. 
Thank God and the Prime Mover we have some more political excitement to on its way! 

Campus King Bob Kersten -complete with
resignation. A lack of 
crown, cape and cat running mate -held office
interest in the presi­
hours in the commode. 

f 
SOFTBALL 

WOMEN'S SWIMMING
1' 
..... ..... 
page 14 

The Observer . SPORTS Friday, February 16, 2001 
Special to The Observer 
The No. 19-ranked Notre Dame softball team will begin the 2001 season this weekend, taking part in the Holiday Inn Invitational on the campus of the University of South Florida, Feb. 16-18. 
The Irish will face a highly­competitive field, with No. 4 Washington and No. 18 South Carolina in the tournament. Hofstra and South Florida also have received votes in the pre­season USA Today/NFCA Top 25. 
Notre Dame posted a 17-7 {.708) record in five in..season tournaments last season, includ­ing capturing the 2000 State Line Classic tournament title with victories over Kentucky and Tennessee and two wins over new 2001 Big East confer­ence member Virginia Tech. 
Notre Dame, which finished the last season ranked 24th in the country. returns all nine starters from its 2000 Big East Championship title team last year. Led by captains Melanie Alkire, Danielle Klayman, Lizzy Lemire and Jenn Sharron. the Irish have been picked to repeat as Big East champions by a vote from the league's coaches. 
The Irish finished with a 14-2 record in Big East competition last season and swept through the Big East Championship in three games. Notre Dame outscored Boston College (5-2) and Connecticut (5-0, 7-0) 17 -2 to earn its third consecutive conference championship title. 
Seniors Melanie Alkire and Jenn Sharron became Notre Dame's first All-Americans since 1996 by earning NFCA second­team All-American honors last year. 
Alkire finished the 2000 sea­son with 13 home runs, 64 RBI and 73 hits. She also posted a 7­1 pitching record in 13 appear­ances with a 2.30 ERA. includ­ing a six-hitter against sixth­ranked and 2000 National Champion Oklahoma on Mar. 18, 2000. 
Sharron pitched 27 complete games last season, tossing 246 strikeouts and posting a 0.88 ERA. In her career, the Agoura Hills, Calif., native has pitched 
574.2 innings with 504 strike­
outs and a 1.26 ERA. The Irish are loaded with vet-

Belles end first day in fifth 

By JANEL MILLER 
Sports Writer 

Records have begun to fall on the first night of competi­tion putting the Belles in high spirits. 
At the finish of day one, the Belles swimming and diving team are located between their targets ­Albi0n and Alma. The Belles will begin today's events in fifth place with 7 4 points, ahead of Alma with 70 and directly behind both Albion and Kalamazoo with 89 points. 
"We'.re happy with where we are -we're right between them," said senior backstroker Lori Shulte. "The best part is we have two days to go and tomor­row is our best day." 
The Belles started the evening finals off on a posi­tive note when the set a new school record in the 200­yard freestyle relay. The relay team of Colleen 
Sullivan, Chloe Lennihan, Elizabeth Doro and Maureen Palchak also grasped a fourth place finish with their time of 1-minute 43:88 sec­onds. According to co-cap­tain Sullivan this is the first Teammates Candace Polisky of many records that will fall and Megan Ramsey each over the weekend. contributed stellar perfor­
Sullivan also took a fifth mances as well. place finish in the 50-yard. Polisky brought a 14th freestyle directly ahead of place and a 13-second time Palchak with times 25.87 drop to the Belles while and 25.88 Ramsey seconds came in
"We're happy with
respective­with a third 
ly. where we are -place and "It was a we're right within reach great race of the school 
between them ... 
... it really record. 
set me up D i v e r for tomor­Lori Shulte Ryann Cox r o w ' s placed 13th
Belles' senior
race," said Sullivan. 
Both are expected to put up excellent performances in today's 200-yard freestyle. 
The much awaited 500­yard freestyle gave head coach Gretchen Hildebrandt a positive outlook towards the rest of the weekend. All three women dropped signif­icant time and placed very well. 
"The relay was great but this race really showed the hard work and efforts in the last few weeks of practice," said Hildebrandt. 
Co-captain Olivia Smith place 11th with a season best time of 5:38.31. 

N·ow's the time.... 
with a per­
sonal best score of 238. Her score sig­nificantly higher than her previous best of 198 reflects her extra hours and dedica­tion in the last few weeks said Hildebrandt. 
The Belles look onward to today and Saturday's races when their specialties will shine. The backstrokers, breaststrokers and butterfly­ers all have great 
chances at gaining the extra edge -and points ­for the team, while the relays will look to setting new records, and ·Ramsey at qualifying for nationals. The pressure is on. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Reliable, quality childcare needed  2-4 person house for rent. Newly  
in my home for 2-year-old and  renovated  
WANTED  infanr. Part-time hours are 2-3  FOR RENT  three blocks from campus  FOR SALE  PERSONAL  
hrs/day, 3-4 days/wk with 1  call 219-298-3800  
,'"  TICKETS NEED EITHER 1 OR 2 TIX  Saturday a month" Majoring in early childhood development or child­ 3--6 bedroom homes furn. Near campus 2001/02&summer 272•  2 Houses, side by side, still avail.  BR8NCO II 5 spd  My blue coat and I are evidently from Bavaria.CU  
FOR MEN'S 88 OR BOSTON  hood education with own trans­ 6306  For 2001-02. Rent one or both, 4  $1000 obo  "Aller hoehere Humor beginnt  
COLLEGE PLEASE CALL MIKE AT  portation a plus but not necessary.  BA & 6 BR, Furnished, beach V­ 4-3472  darnit, dass man die eigene Person  
246-9085. THANKS.  References required.Phone 288­ 3.5 bedroom homes close to cam- ball, W/D, prime location, 233-9947  nicht zu ernst nimmt."  
6795  pus 232-259 mmmrentals@aol.com  Greg  $$ Get paid for your opinions  
WANTED: 1 GA ticket for men's BC "  !$$  Look out, the Nigerian nightmare is  
8-ball game. Call Jim 234-7228"  LOST AND FOUND  "BED AND BREAKFAST" in private home for JPW & Graduation  CONDOS FOR RENT FOR JPW VISITORS OR OTHER SMC/ND  Earn $15-$125 and more per survey!  coming!  
Two tickets for B.coVseton mens  Weekends; 3 bdrms w/private bath  EVENTS: Why not reserve ­clos­ www. mQn~~4QQiniQns. QQm  chubby rain lives!  
basketball game. Tel. Gerry  SIZEABLE REWARD OFFERED:  in lovely neighborhood 1 Omin. from  est to ND -a fully furnished condo  
2471051  For a lost gold and silver bracelet  campus. 234-2626.  containing kitchen with refrigerator,  PHONE CARDS  I called my granny's tonight..  
with alternating silver and gold  microwave, disposal, dishware,  $20:  
BLACK FEMALE ROOMATE IN  blocks, if found please contact  NICE HOME NORTH OF ND  laundry facility and fireplace on the  2601 MIN WITH 49 CENT SUR- They ignored me  
CASTLE POINT  Rachel Phillips at 4-1492 or email  GOOD AREA FOR NEXT SCHOOL  corner of Ivy Rd. & Edison Rd?  CHARGE  
$350 271 • 7195  tibil!i12s 75~aa e!Ju  YEAR 277-3097  Available for extended stay or for  or  They'd rather watch Surviver than  
weekends. Contact Unicorn  $20  talk to their grandson."  
Models Wanted Females  Suppressed Dead Sea Scrolls &  All the good houses are not gone!  Management at 219-232-1242 tor  362 MIN WITH NO FEES  
Long black or dark brown hair for  Nag Hammadi Codices Research:  Available 4 bedroom. Available 2  assistance or leave message on the  Boohoo, I'm sad . Rain Rain go  
portrait & glamour photography  www"geocities.com:80/Athens/Rho  bedroom. Dave 291-2209  reservations line 219-273-IVYND  634-1146 CLAUDIA  away come again some other day"""  
Call chuck@ 616-687-3800  des/7031/deadsea"html  mas;;Qs ~ mii;;biaoa.Qrg  (4896)  634-4210 SARA  Its LATE!!!  


Friday, February 16, 2001 

The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
HOCKEY ~-­
Results from the Irish Iron Classic 

f..,.·-·•,,...,...,.._.,,,....,.~.,.,_.,..,_.,.,.,.,.,.~y-;,,,,;,.;,.,,,,,.,,.......,.,_.•v.vw'.•~•,,n,•~<,Mh,.-...,, . .,_..,_._.,,.,. 
'. 
\ 
LEIGHTON HUU BRINGS IT HOME 

LEIGHTON HULL, DENNY'S FRANCHISE OWNER 
Leighton Hull owns Denn{s® Restaurants in California and Hawaii, but there's no place like home. So he's opened not one but two Denny's Restaurants here in his hometown. It was around his kitchen table in South Bend that Leighton Hull learned values like giving back to the community. Ifs avalue he shores with the rest of the Denny's family. We' re the largest corporate sponsor of Save The Children U.S. and the leading sponsor and creator of STAR -Serious 


.____________________ --------------­-
Male Team Champions: 
Alumni Hall 

Female Team Champions: 
Welsh Family Hall 
Male Outstanding Lifter: 
Nick Markovich (194% of body weight) 
...

Female Outstanding Lifter: 
Dora t5eBartolo 195 lbs.) 
1---­

MaIe Results b Wei ht Class 140 and Under: 171-185: 
Kevin Huie Byron Levkulich 
141-150: 186-200: 
Chris Pankiewicz-Nohr Doug Lawrence 
151-160: 201-215: 
Adam Oyster Shamus Rohn 
161-170: Over 215: 
Nick Markovich Dave Kowalski 
University Laundry and Tanning 
Buy one Tan Package, Get the 2nd FREE Offer good for one person only -no splits 
Irish travel to Ann Arbor with new-found playoff hopes 
By JEFF BALTRUZAK 
Sports Writer 
Last time it wasn't pretty. Watching nine goals go in your own net never is. 
Notre Dame travels to Ann Arbor, Mich., for a single game on today to face the fifth-ranked Michigan Wolverines. The Irish will look to do something they haven't done since 1982 -win a regular season game at Yost Ice Arena. 
On Jan. 23, the Wolverines thrashed the Irish 9-0, but Notre Dame is coming off a weekend sweep of Bowling Green, winning 3-2 and 5-3 at the Joyce Center last weekend. The Irish needed to win both games to remain in the playoff race. 
The Irish are now 8-21-5 over­all and 5-14-4 in CCHA play, good for a three-way tie for 10th with Lake Superior State and Bowling Green. Michigan is in second place in the CCHA and is coming off a split with Northern Michigan, winning 3-1 and losing 2-0. 
With just five games remaining on the schedule, the Irish are feel­ing the playoff crunch. They need points, but it won't be easy against the Wolverines. 
Michigan has history on its side. The two teams have met 94 times in the all-time series with Michigan holding a 53-38-3 advantage and since '92-'93, UM is 14-1-0 with the lone Irish win coming in the first game of the 1998 CCHA playoffs. 
But if there were a time for the Irish to steal one against Michigan, Friday would be it. In a season with few peaks and many valleys, Notre Dame finds itself riding a peak after Bowling Green. 

Freshman center Rob Globke, CCHA Rookie of the Week last week, returns to his home state following his most solid weekend yet. He netted two goals. including the game winner last Friday and had two assists in two wins against Bowling Green. Globke is tied for the team lead with 14 goals this season, the most goals for a Notre Dame freshman since 1984. 
Also on a scoring tear is senior left winger Dan Carlson. He con­tributed three assists and a goal to the Irish cause against Bowling Green, to bring his season total to 36 points. 

---,. ­



Friday, February 16, 200 I 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
TOPSY TURVY 
IL POSTIN . 
BUTTERFLIES SHALL WE DANCE? 
1 
f 
i ALL MOVIES IN 155 DEBARTOLO $2 ADMISSION 7.00 -9.30PM 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Notre Dame travels to National Indoors 
By STEVE KEPPEL 
Sports Wrirer 
This weekend the 11th­ranked Notre Dame women's tennis team heads to Wisconsin for the National Team Indoor Championship from Feb. 15-18. The Irish face some of the top ranked teams in the country in the 16-team field. 
After a successful weekend last week the Irish will be seed­ed in the 5-8 bracket and will take on No. 40 Oklahoma State in the first round. 

l 
"Our goal is to make it past the second round," said junior Becky Varnum. "We've never done that in the past." 
l 
Last weekend the Irish won three dual matches in three days -beating No. 61 Virginia 
Tech, No. 8 Wake Forest. and No. 28 North Carolina. 
The highlight of the week was on Saturday, as the Irish blanked the Deamon Deacons of Wake Forest 5-0. The Irish handed the Deacons their first loss of the year. 
Senior All-American Michelle Dasso leads the Irish. Dasso is two singles wins away from becoming the winningest sin­gles player in Notre Dame histo­ry. 
She comes into the tourna­


~~. ~~ 
i 
l f 
ment with a record of 121-31 ­one victory behind the record set by Kelly Zalinsky last year. 
Dasso also needs just six com­bined doubles and singles wins to pass Zalinsky's record of 213 total wins. 
The No 2-ranked Dasso has been rolling along this season with a 5-0 record in singles and is a major part of the team's success in dual play. 
"She [Dasso] is a huge asset to the team. she really gets us going," said doubles partner Varnum, "I don't think we would be the same without her." 
Also playing well lately is senior Kimberly Guy, who has moved up to the No. 5 singles spot and has a 9-0 dual match record so far this spring. 
Guy started the spring by win­
ning the second flight singles at 
the adidas Invitational in 
January. Since then she has 
gone undefeated in singles play. 
If the Irish get past the first 
round they will face the winner 
of the match between No. 2­
ranked Georgia and host 
Wisconsin on Friday. This will 
mark the eighth consecutive 
appearance for the Irish at the 
National Indoors. 
Notre Dame is 9-12 in the 

tournament and has beaten 
highly ranked teams Stanford. 
Florida and Vanderbilt. 

Monday, February 19 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish shouldn't overlook Pirates 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Associate Sports Editor 

Seton Hall hasn't matched pre­season expectations, but that won't fool Notre Dame into over­looking the young but talented Pirates. 
"They h a v e weapons," I r i s h c o a c h Mike Brey s a i d . "Every­body's 


kind of, Graves 
' P o o r Seton Hall,' but they're very tal­ented." 
Three Seton Hall starters are freshman, including point guard Andre Barrett and leading rebounder Eddie Griffin. The only seniors on the Pirates' squad, Kevin Wilkins and Reggie Garrett, score a combined 1.3 points per game. The youth has hurt the Pirates (12-9, 3-7 Big East}, who were picked to win the Big East West Division and gar­nered preseason rankings as high as No. 3 in the nation. 
"They're very young," Brey said. "When you take a young team, especially on the road, it's tough." 
Brey and the Irish (17-5, 9-2) 
aren't forgetting that it was Notre 
Dame that went away disappoint­
ed the first time the two teams 
played this season. Seton Hall edged Notre Dame 78-76 on Jan. 6 despite a 25-point, 20-rebound performance by Irish junior Troy Murphy. 
. The Pirates won even without Griffin, who scores 18 points and grabs 12 rebounds per game. as Griffin served a one-game sus­pension for a locker room fight. The 6-foot-9 player's presence could make a big difference in Sunday's game, as he tops the league with 16 double-doubles. 
"He's a great player," Irish point guard Martin Ingelsby said. "He's going to make our big guys down low work on the offensive and defensive ends." 
Junior guard Darius Lane scored 20 in Seton Hall's 63-62 loss to Syracuse last Saturday. and hit the Irish up for 22 in their first match of the year. 
The Pirates have three other 
players who average at least 
eight points per outing in Ty 
Shine, Marcus Toney-El and 
Samuel Dalembert. Yet that 
hasn't helped them to wins as the 
Pirates have dropped their past 
four games. 
''I think we're playing a lot bet­
ter as a team," Ingelsby said. "We 
kind of rushed things up at Seton 
Hall the first time. We need to not 
try to force too many things, and 
just play the way we've been 
playing and control the tempo." 
The Irish have done that over 
the past month while going unde­
feated. Defense has been one 
main difference. 
"Guarding -we got a defen­
sive identity. There's a pride in stopping people. getting loose balls," Brey said. "We've slowed down and taken advantage of our identity." 


Junior David Graves, who Brey joked had never taken a charge until last month, now keeps a running tally of _the number of charges he's taken. He's gone from about one a year to one a game, giving a look to Brey each time he adds a charge to his total. 
Murphy's will is pushing the Irish towards their first NCAA Tournament berth in more than a decade. 
"He wants to be the guy that leads the program back to the NCAA Tournament," Brey said of the All-American. "There's a great example of a great player giving up some of his individual stuff to help the program." 
The Irish downed the Scarlet 
Knights by more than 20 on 
\Vednesday with leading 
rebounder Ryan Humphrey sit­
ting on the sidelines due to a 
sprained ankle. 

Reserves Jere Macura and 
Torrian Jones added 14 points 
although they usually see little 
game time. 

"It was great to see them out 
there playing," Ingelsby said. 
"Without them making us better 
in practice, we wouldn't be 
where we are today." 

Humphrey should be back on 
Sunday. hopefully at 100 percent 
capacity. 

"I believe he'll be fine," Brey 
said. "If last night was an NCAA 
Tournament game, he'd play." 




Friday, February 16, 2001 page 17
The Observer . SPORTS 
Swim 
continued from page 24 
But the sophomore knocked off more than 12 seconds in the preliminary competition. and by swimming 4:54.82 earned NCAA finals consideration. Kohrt followed her performance with a 4:55.68 in the finals. fast enough for fifth place. 
"I didn't even know what the cut was," she said. "I got out of the water, and they told me 'you got the cut'. I was just in awe ­it was just unbelievable. I never thought I could swim that fast." 
Heather Mattingly had an out­standing day on the three-meter springboard. She scored 467 points and placed sixth place, behind five sensational Miami divers. 
She will compete again today in the one-meter competition. While the women had several outstanding individual perfor­

ship and 
competed in 
the one-meter diving final. 
And what an event it was for the Ohio natives. Maggio fin­ished second and Huesman ended up fourth and led the Irish to a fourth place overall showing after the first day of the Big East swimming and diving championships on Long Island. 
Pittsburgh leads the field with 247 points, while St. John's (152 points) and Rutgers (134 points) are also ahead of Notre Dame's 117 points. 
The competition continues today and ends on Saturday. The Irish have finished second for the last two seasons at this meet. 
"We're always a little sluggish on the first day," junior Jonathan Pierce said. "It's tough getting accustomed to the pool. And we have 28 guys here and 15 are first-timers." 
Pierce, a junior, had no trou­ble adjusting to the new set­tings. His clocking of 4:27.39 was good for third in the 500­yard freestyle and it also broke his own school-record by nearly three seconds. 
THE TREASURE TRAIL MIX SHOW Pierce's time also placed him in consideration for the NCAAc = 1 . ~m -q. = . . ~rn meet, the first time an Irish swimmer has ever been under the consideration time in the 500 freestyle. He led the race for 15 of the 2C laps but St. John's Michal 

starri11g: 
jiro i fisrJburn e 


Szapiel and Eric Limkemann caught Pierce in the final 150
Cliff arnold 

yards. Notre Dame freshman Matt
brian kenney 

Obringer placed eighth with a season's best time of 4:34.60. 
"That was [Pierce's] plan tonight {to go out fast]," Notre Dame coach Tim 
Welsh said. "The other racers in the heat have been ahead of

* BRAND SPANKINNEW 
him all year. So part of John's strategy is to say 'be in the
"OUTER SPACE l\'1IX" 
race.' It was a fabulous race.'' 
tu11e in for space then1ed s011gs 
and science fiction hoopla 
Saint Mary's College

-1 SPECIAL GUEST!!! 
presents

Prof Edmund Goehring 
Friday

dis cusses Pro&fru:11 . f Lib eral 
February 16, 2001 
8:00 p.m.

Studies :and lris ta.ke 011 the 
Saturday

11O·uter Space Mix11 
February 17, 2001 
8:00 p.m. 
Little Theatre

TUNE IN TliIS SATURDAY 


M~ 
' c_~rHE !f!...
~-na-• 
Call the Saint Mary's box office for tidal•:

P://WVFI.ND, 
284-4626 
mances, Weathers didn't seem that pleased with the overall effort. 
"I was really disappointed in the 500 and in the sprints, but those have been problems all year long," he said. "We really missed Carrie today." 
Before the standings were posted, Weathers said, "I don't even think we're in first." 
He let out a visible sigh when meet officials announced that the Irish sat atop the score­board. 
"We've got a tough road ahead of us if we want to win," he said. 
In the 500-yard freestyle, Lindsay Moorhead finished just three tenths of a second behind Kohrt and placed seventh. But last year's Big East champion in the 500, Kristen Van Saun, who entered the competition seeded sixth, finished a disappointing 14th. 
It was obvious that the Irish missed Nixon. Her time last year in the 50-yard freestyle, 

MEN'S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
22.58, was nearly three-quar­ters of a second faster than this year's champion. The only Irish 
Irish in fourth after
entry in that event, Hulick, took 12th place with a personal best 23.92. 
"We're satisfied with that," 
first day of Big East 
Weathers said. "That's about 
Said Pierce: "You're always going to be disappointed when you get beat but I'm real happy with my time." 
Maggio was also pleased with his performance. He received high scores on an inward two­and-a-half, his second-to-last dive, which catapulted him into second. In last year's meet. he finished sixth in the one-meter and fifth in the three-meter. 
"He had the best meet he's had since he was 14 today," Huesman said. "It was awesome to see." 
Huesman, who dove on the Cincinnati Stingrays club team with Maggio, was a little less ecstatic on a personal level. Last night, Huesman tied his place­ment at the 2000 championships and struggled on two dives. 
"I didn't really dive great," Huesman said. "It definitely could have been alot better." 
Part of Huesman's problem stems from a recurring shoulder injury. At the Indiana Invitational in early November, while preparing for the three­meterevent, Huesman dislocated his left shoulder. 
He just returned to the pool three weeks ago and has com­peted in only two meets. And whereas he normally attempts 60-90 dives per day. Huesman only performed 15 dives per day before yesterday's event. 
Huesman may have surgery on his left shoulder in the next few weeks. But he plans on competing in today's three­meter event. Last year, Huesman placed fourth in the three-meter competition. 
''Andy (Maggio] and I definite­ly should be in the top 5 [in the three-meter event] if things go well," Huesman said. 
Welsh also expects high place­ments from his swimmers today. In the 100-meter breastroke, junior Mike Koss is seeded third and senior Dan Szilier is sixth. 
Unfortunately for the Irish, junior David Horak, the fourth seed in today's 100-yard butter­fly and 100-yard backstroke, has mononucleosis and will not­compete this weekend. 
The 400-yard individual med­ley will be contested today. as well. Senior co-captain Ryan Verlin, who finished fourth a year ago in the 400, and Pierceare among the favorites. Pierce, a two-time Big East champion in the 1650-yard freestyle, will defend that title on Saturday. 
"We always get better from session to session," Pierce said. "We'll do a lot better tomorrow and even better on Saturday." 
what we thought we'd get out of her. You can tell how much it hurts not having Carrie in that event and in the 200 free relay." 
-The 200-yard freestyle relay of Brooke Davey, Hulick, Sarah Bowman and Hecking took fifth place with a season-best time of 1:34.61, two seconds behind winner West Virginia. 
The Irish will continue compe­tition today and Saturday. Today's competition 
features a showdown between Labosky and Olympian Maddy Crippen in the 400-yard individ­ual medley as well as the indi­vidual debut of Hecking, Lloyd, and Musgrave in their specialty events. 


H 

ByTIM CASEY Assistant Sports Wrirer 
UNIONDALE, N.Y. 

They both grew up in Cincinnati, dove on the same club team and have known each other for seven years. 
Last night, however, sophomore A n d y Maggio and senior Herb Huesman, put aside their long­time friend­

-------~-----------­

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, February 16, 2001 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Notre Dame faces tough late season contest at Rutgers 


By KERRY SMITH 
Sports Editor 
The last time Rutgers and Notre Dame met, Scarlet Knights' coach Vivian Stringer thought her team played like it was intimidated. 
Suffering a 21-point loss to the Irish at the Joyce Center Jan. 6, the Scarlet Knights could not hit their shots and were not tight enough on defense. 
But a lot has happened in a month. 
Still undefeated, Notre Dame has jumped from No. 3 to No. 1 in the polls while Rutgers has fallen from No. 9 to the 11th spot. And after a devastating 70-45 loss to No. 3 Connecticut on Wednesday, the Scarlet Knights are heading for another demotion in the rank­ings unless they can pull off an upset Saturday which no other team has been able to -a win against the Irish. 
"I think they'll come out and play a lot harder than they did last time," Ericka Haney said. "It would be good for them to have a win over a top ranked team." 
The Irish, as usual, are up for 
the challenge. 
After a week-long rest, the Irish 
hit the court again Wednesday 
with a solid 7 5-61 win against 
unranked Syracuse. 
Using a balanced attack. four 
starters scored in double figures, 
with Riley leading the pack net­
ting 24 points. 
Despite the team effort, the 
Irish need to stay steady as they round out the remainder of the regular season. As the team to beat across the country, the Irish need to stay motivated and not fall into a complacent routine. 
"We just need to stay focused," Haney said. "We need to go in there and play hard." 

The Scarlet Knights will have to the second half and put away the pay special attention to their game. Behind-the-arc shooting is defensive strategy if they hope to also a strength of the Irish. stifle the Irish offense. Gaurds Alicia Ratay, with a 56 
Rutgers failed to shut down percent shooting average from Connecticut's 3-point shooting in behind the arc, and Niele Ivey at their last outing, allowing the an even 50 percent pose big Huskies to bury 8-11 attempts in threats for the Rutgers defense. 
The Scarlet Knights also had trouble shutting down Notre Dame's offensive power under the basket in the teams' last meeting. Center Ruth Riley and forward Kelley Siemon combined for half of Notre Dame's 67 points. 
Castle Point Select Units Available for Next Semester 
:~within Minutes of Campus::• 
-Renovated, spacious one and two bedroom apartments, some with lofts. 
-Includes membership in the new Castle Point Racquet Club and Fitness Center. 
::::::~:~(i.f:, 
.-.:-:­

Now Renting 1 & 2 Bedroom Homes Starting at $466.00 Gourmet Kitchens, Spacious Closets, Laundry Facilities, Indoor Swimming Pool, Exercise Room & Party Rooms Located on Bus Line Minutes from Downtown, Universities & Shopping View our Model Daily Mon --Fri 9 am --6 pm Saturday --10 am --6 pm Sunday --Noon --4 pm 3001 East Jefferson Blvd. South Bend, IN 46615 
219--232--3333 
www.parkjefferson.com 

Friday, February 16, 2001 page 19
The Observer . SPORTS 
TRACK AND FIELD 

Youth give women hope at Indoors 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Assistant Sports Editor 
When the Irish women's track and field team steps onto the track Saturday for day one of the Big East Indoor Championships they will be relying on youth to improve upon last season's sixth­place finish. 
Two sophomores provide hope for the Irish in multiple events. 
Sophomore Tameisha King will compete in the 60-meter dash, the 60-meter hurdles and her specialty, the long jump 
King's season-best mark of 6.10 meters seeds her first in the long jump entering the meet. King also will be right in the hunt in the hurdles. where she is currently ranked fifth, three tenths of a sec­ond behind Charmaine Walker. 
In the dash, King's time of 7.56 seconds is currently ranked third. 
"Tameisha is going to have to score in two of her three events," said Irish head coach Joe Piane. 
With preliminary and final rounds in all three of her events. King will be a busy lady this weekend. 
"Tameisha seems like the type of person that needs to be busy," Irish field events coach Scott Winsor said. "If she doesn't have the time to think about it, then she's fine. It's when she sits and waits and has time to let her mind wonder is when she struggles." 
King's classmate, Jaime Volkmer, will compete in the pole vault and triple jwnp. The school­record holder in the pole vault comes in ranked second in the event. 
"Jaime's a heck of a competi­tor," Winsor said. "She went into the outdoor Big East last year ranked No. 2 and she won it." 
Volkmer enters the meet ranked No. 14 in the triple jump, but remains in striking distance. 
Junior Liz Grow enters the meet with by far the best time in the 400-meter dash. Grow's two­week old mark of 53.30 seconds is more than one second ahead of Georgetown's Sasha Spencer. 

Grow will not be competing in the 200-meter dash, where she has the No. 2 time in the Big East, because the 200-meters immedi­ately follows the 400-meter finals on Sunday. 
Grow will compete in the 60­meters alongside King, where she enters with an identical time of 
7.56 seconds. 
"We feel Liz can pick up some points there," said Irish sprints coach John Millar. 
A young group of sprinters pro­vide hope for the Irish. Sophomore Kymia Love and freshman Kristen Dodd have put up impressive times in the 400­
. meters this season, both running below 57 seconds. 
"They're relatively inexperi­enced, both running on this type of track and running in a Big East Championship type atmosphere," said Irish sprints and hurdles coach John Millar. 'Tm hoping both can reach the finals." 
In the distance races, sopho­more Jenn Handley will compete in the 3,000 meters Sunday along­side senior Chrissy Kuenster. Kuenster will be competing one day after running the 5,000­meters. 
First-year law student Emily Bienko will step into the ring to throw the shot-put for the Irish. Bienko competed in the pen­tathlon for the Irish three of the last four years and is familiar with 
,., the Big East meet environment. 
"I know she hasn't had the training under her belt that she has in the past. but if anybody can do it she can do it," Winsor said of Bienko. "It's going to take a good throw, but she has the ability to score." 


The George Washington University 
GW classes travel abroad! Advance your kno\vledge while exploring new horizons 
• 
Business Environment in China: Washington, DC & China 

• 
Central European Politics: Czech Republic & Slovakia 

• 
Cultural Heritage Tourism in North Africa: Morocco & Tunisia 

• 
Culture and Language in North Africa: Morocco 

• 
Education to Build Multicultural Nations: South Africa & Namibia 

• 
Inside French Theatre, Le Coq Training & Beyond: France 

• 
Models of Educational Service Delivery in Greece 

• 
Paleoanthropological Field Program in China 

• 
Privatization and Competition as Reform: Washington, DC & England 

• 
Program in International Human Rights Law: England 

• 
Sustainable Tourism Consulting Practicum: Washington, DC & Bulgaria 


GW also offers over 500 courses and specialized summer programs at the Washington, DC campus. 
email: sumprogs@gwu.edu (202) 973-1123 
GW is an equal opportunity Institution • 

.. 
Notre Dame hopes to fight past injuries 

By NOAH AMSTADTER Assistant Sports Editor 
To reach their goal of plac­ing in the top three at the Big East Championships this week­ends, the Irish men's track and f i e l d 
team will n e e d m o re than one athlete to step up. 
F o r one ath­lete, that 
might be Shay 
harder 
than for others. 
Junior jumper Quill Redwine tore his meniscus in his right knee while competing in the triple jump at Notre Dame's Meyo Invitational two weeks ago. The injury will eventually require surgery. but Redwine will still compete in the high jump this weekend because his plant foot leg is his left. 
"He was looking to do great things in the triple. That's not pleasant news," said Irish field events coach Scott Winsor. 
Redwine isn't the only field events competitor competing at less than full strength. Junior pole-vaulter Josh Heck missed Notre Dame's meet at the Windsor Invitational last weekend due to a gluteus injury. This week, Heck missed three days of practice due to flu-like symptoms. 
Heck will compete this week­end, but may enter at a later height and must concentrating on clearing the bar on his first attempt at each height in order to conserve his strength. 
"I think he's ready to go," Winsor said. "He's not going to have a lot of energy. He's not going to have tons of vaults in him so he's going to have to make them count." 
Despite Redwine's injury, the Irish remain in position to walk off with quite a few points in the triple jump. Freshman Godwin Mbagwu 
enters the meet ranked first in 
the event, having cleared 50 
feet in the season's first meet. 
Despite the fact that this week­
end will mark only the second 
away meet in Mbagwu's young 
career, Winsor doesn't think 
his jumper will be phased. 
'To me it's always interest­
ing to sit down and see how 
underclassmen respond to 
that," Winsor said. "I think 
he'll do fine. He's pretty level 
headed." 
Also competing in the triple jump for Notre Dame is sopho­more Scott Kelley, who placed seventh in the conference last season with a mark of 45-9. 
"He's looking very good in practice,'' Winsor said. "I think he can score, that's why he's going." 
In the long jump, sophomore Tom Gilbert enters the meet ranked No. 5. However, Gilbert has battled illness and fatigue the last two weeks and his coach believes his best jump is yet to come. 
"Tom really needs to focus on his long jump warm-up, and that's what we've talked about this week," Winsor said. "I think he feels that he can 
win." 
Distance runner Ryan Shay will face his toughest collegiate competition this season as he competes in both the 5,000­meters and the 3,000-meters. Shay's time of 13:52.66 in the 5,000-meters is less than two seconds ahead of Providence's Keith Kelly. the NCAA Cross Country Champion. 
In the 3,000 Shay and team­mates John Keane and Mark Striowski will have their work cut out for them. Villanova's Adrian Blincoe has posted a time of 8:01.53, nearly 20 sec­onds ahead of Shay and 30 seconds ahead of Keane. 
In the sprints. senior Travis Davey will be the lone Irish runner competing in the 60­meter dash. Davey brings in a time of 6.91 seconds, currently ranked seventh. Millar believes Davey has the ability to run even faster. 
. 


-Large 2-Bedroom floorplan -Student Leases Available ... 4 Blocks From Campus 
ONLY A FEW LEFT -SECURE YOUR APARTMENT TODAY. 
"The Best Value In Off Campus Living" 
Professionally Managed by Real Estate Management Corp. 
234-9923 
~ 
i, 
Friday, February 16, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 20 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Lo~ puts slumping Belles in cellar 
Norman has life-long 

By KATIE McVOY 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Going into halftime of Wednesday night's contest against Adrian College, Saint Mary's was facing a point deficit larger than the num­ber of minutes left to play. 
With 20 minutes left in the game, the Belles were losing to the Bulldogs 40-19. They never recovered. 
A 36-point second half per­formance by the Belles wasn't enough to top Adrian, as Saint Mary's dropped another MIAA contest 75-55. The loss dropped the Belles to last place in the league. 
Coming off a victory against Olivet Saturday, Saint Mary's looked for a win Wednesday night. However, 25 percent shooting in the first half wasn't enough to get that vic­tory. 
"We've been doing a much better job handling the pres­sure and different defenses and attacking and being aggressive," Smith said earli­er this week. 
The Adrian offense got around the Saint Mary's defense to score 40 points in the first half, shooting nearly 50 percent from the field. 
Starting forward Sarah Vincke led the Bulldog attack -making seven 2-pointers and claiming two of Adrian's seven 3-point shots. 
Adrian's other leading scor­ers came off of the bench. Guards freshman Kersten Larsen and junior Angie Benefield each added 14 points to the Adrian victory. 
0 




The Saint Mary's bench scored only 12 points. Senior starting guard Julie Norman led the Be Iles offensively. scoring 16 points. Kelly Roberts and Mary Campione each chipped in 10 points. 
Kelly Roberts who grabbed eight of Saint Mary's 37 rebounds -led Saint Mary's defensively. 
Saturday the Belles will play their final game of the season on the road against the Kalamazoo Hornets. This will be the last opportunity for the Belles to try to move up in the MIAA tournament bracket. 
If Saint Mary's drops 

Saturday's game, the Belles will face the No. 1 ranked Flying Dutch of Hope in the first round of play. 
However, if Saint Mary's can come up with a win, and Adrian loses. the team may face Alma instead. 
The last time the Belles faced the Hornets, they dropped the game 64-48, wrapping up round one of MIAA play at home. However, Smith believes her team plays better on the road. 
..I always think we play a little better on the road," she said. 
Tip-off is at 3 p.m. at Kalamazoo. 
love of basketball 
For four years, Norman has been an integral part of the Saint Mary's basketball team. For the past two years, she has been looked on to carry the leadership role on the team. Last season, she was the only junior on a team without any senior members. 
"I feel like I've been in this position for two years," Norman said. "It can be hard at times, because you have to deal with your senior year and there are academic and social issues that come with that. There's really no one there who is going through the same things." 
She feels a strong bond to her teammates. even with the difficulties that come with leading alone. 
"So many of the juniors came in as recruits and they stayed on campus with me," she said. "They're not only my teammates, they're some of my closest friends." 
Playing for four years in an athletic program that has undergone enormous changes has brought both difficulties and rewards for Norman. A new athletic director, coaching staff and countless new staff members have given Saint Mary's ath­letics a new face. 
"I have been fortunate to be here during a time of such change," she said. "When I was a freshman, we were playing with 12-year-old uni­forms, and playing on a rub­ber floor that gave me bad shin splints. Lynn [Kachamarik, the Belles' new Athletic Director! has been the driving force to all these changes. She lives and breathes Belles athletics." 
Norman leads on the court for more reasons than her age. Her skills on the court have been looked on for four years, offensively and defen­sively. She was an All-MIAA Team Honorable Mention during the 98-99 and 99-00 seasons. 
By MOLLY McVOY 
Saint Mary's Editor 
When Julie Norman gets tired from juggling her internship, basketball prac­tice and a full class load, she thinks of the last line of a poem her friend gave to her: "We are what few can claim -college athletes." 
"That poem just means a lot to me; it fits me," said Norman, the lone senior on the Belles' basketball team. "I mean, I'm not out there for the recognition or because I'm trying to move on or because I'm here on full scholarship. I'm out there because I love the game." 
For Norman, basketball has always been one of the things that she focuses on. In her earliest basketball days, Norman and her best friend were the only two girls in a YMCA league. They played together on the same team during the first grade. 
"One of my friends still remembers pushing me down from that league," she said. ··ue still apologizes because he thought I hated him." 
With three sisters and a father who played basketball, 
Norman  was  bound  to  be  
involved in the sport.  
"My  dad  always  jokes  

around about having four girls and how he turned us all into athletes," Norman said. 
That love of the game car­ries on to the court where Norman plays with intensity and drive, according to Susan Smith, Norman's coach. 
"Julie is definitely a leader," Smith said. "She brings a lot of intensity to the court. She's very focused." 
"My style o(play is to be aggressive," Norman said. "I like to make things happen by being aggressive and tak­ing it to the other team. There's no sense in just sit­ting there." 

Notre  Dame  Film. Television. and  Theatre  presents  
,,~,,....,. 4 __,,,: ,' '--~><'···'  --•·-­,,,, _•­--_ . ",·,·;­' ..  
/I  

i\tl()rS t~1r(Hll rrJ1(\ Li)ll(l(Hl Slclgl\ 
The Winter's Tale 
by William Shakespeare 
Wednesday, February 21 .. 7:30 p.m. Thursday, February 22 ... 7:30 p.m. Friday, February 23 ............. 7:30 p.m. Saturday, February 24 ... 7:30 p.m. 
Playing at Washington Hall • Reserved Seats $16 Seniors $1 4 • All Students $1 2 
Tickets available at Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-81 28. 


> 
page 21 Friday, February 16, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS 
teams did not emerge in the Midwest until 1982, when dedicated individuals who had
Polo 
played in California began moving eastward and becoming coaches. 
continued from page 24 
The growth of water polo became particularly long. apparent when universities in the Big Ten con­
In 1996, the Notre Dame Women's Water ference began to gain varsity status four years Polo team was one of the original members of ago. Indiana University and the University of what would eventually become the Midwestern Michigan were the first to make the transition. division of the Collegiate Water Polo Purdue University and the University of Association (CWPA). Wisconsin are in the process of becoming varsi­
Although the women's team still scrimmages ty. At most of the Ivy League schools, water with the men's team once in a while, the polo is also no longer a club sport. women's skills have improved substantially Colleges are realizing that women's water 
since the team's inception. polo is a great addition to any athletic program. 
Senior captain Lisa Thomas attributes the It is expected that another 20-30 teams will program's success to the fact that "water polo move to varsity programs in the next few years. has gotten a lot more serious in the Midwest." Although the Notre Dame women's water 
"The competition has gotten better, which polo team is competitive with Indiana and has lead us to practice harder than ever," she Michigan and easily beat Purdue and Wisconsin said. "The swim sets are harder, and in gener­last year, it is still a club. al, the practices are more focused and more "Sooner or later, if Notre Dame wants to keep organized," Thomas said. "Our team now competing at the level we have been, we're would kill our team of three years ago." going to have to look at going varsity," said 
However, Thomas also notes, "We've Parolin. "We're not going to be able to keep improved at about the same rate as the teams playing the varsity teams if we're not getting we play." the same funding and recruiting benefits." 
So far this season, the team is 10-3, beating Right now, however, the team's goals include Northwestern University, the University of beating Miami and improving on last year's Illinois. Bowling Green State University and seventh-place finish at Collegiate Club,/ Ohio State University, among others. Nationals. 
Notre Dame's three loses have been tough Saturday the Notre Dame women's water games; the team lost to Michigan State 11-4 in polo team takes on Purdue at 8 a.m., their first game of the spring season; they were Northwestern at 10 a.m., Illinois at 3:30 p.m. also beaten by University of Miami-Ohio twice. and Grand Valley State at 6:30 p.m. at Rolfs At the first tournament they lost 8-6 and the Aquatic Center. second time they were narrowly edged out in sudden death over­time 11-10. Miami is traditionally the team's biggest division rival: last year Notre Dame lost the championship to Miami in triple overtime. 
"It's pretty amazing," said Coughlin, who coaches the women's team. "Before, we had to teach everybody everything; now there are a lot of girls who've played in high school." 
When Thomas joined the team in 1997. between 8-12 women trav­eled with the team to weekend tournaments. The number varied greatly from week to week because most of the players were not com­mitted to the team and did not attend practice on a regular basis. 
Thomas claims that when she attended her first water polo tour­nament in November of her fresh­man year, she had never seen a drive, one of the most fundamental offensive elements of the game. 
Thomas is now the lone senior 
Water polo: no horses, plenty of action for all 
Observer Staff Report 
Contrary to popular belief, water polo does not involve horses. The most basic explanation of the sport is that the four seven-minute quar­ters of each game combine both the hard-hitting brutality of hockey and plays similar to basketball with swimming to form a unique, demanding sport. 
Instead of dribbling down a court, players swim with the ball down the pool; however, when they pick up the ball to shoot or pass, they can only touch the ball with one hand at a time. They never get to stand up or stop treading water. Players must always keep their nails and toenails short because otherwise they will become weapons. 
There are seven players in the water for each team at a time: one goalie. a hole-set, a defensive hole­set and four field players. 
The hole-set is similar to a basket­ball center because nearly all of the offensive plays revolve around her. 'The goal of the defensive hole-set is to do anything within its power to stop the hole-set from shooting at the goal. 
There are limits. If a defensive player is a little too aggressive and the referee sees it, that player gets kicked out for 20 seconds, similar to a penalty in hockey. During this time, the defense has to play man­down. 
After three kick-outs. the player is ejected from the game completely. 
Referees cannot see everything that goes on underneath the water and that is where the game can get rough. Some players will grab their opponent's suit and just hold it, making it much more difficult to tread water. Picture playing basket­ball and getting your shorts pulled on throughout the game. 
Other players prefer to simply push off their opponents to get a head-start down the pool, like checking someone against the boards in hockey. 
on the team; of the six or seven 
College Grads -Start Your Careersl And as you do, consider VW Credit, Inc., one of the fastest 
freshmen who joined with her, 
growing divisions of Volkswagon of America.
only one, who was from California, had played water polo in high school. 
We ore 19 years old, and our growth has been phenomenal. As a captive financing company for 
This year, five of the six fresh­

Volkswagon of America, we provide competitive financial products and services to Volkswagen and
men on the team have played water polo competitively. Because 
Audi dealers and their customers throughout the United States and Canada. the team lost three starting players to graduation last season, they 
We are presently seeking College Graduates In Training for on elite, fast track opportunity to
have had to redirect their focus a little. 
management within our expanding company. These positions will appeal to candidates who want 
"We spend a lot more time 

to join an established, yet expansive company that offers exceptional career growth into a variety of
teaching the basics and fundamen­tals of the game," said Coughlin. 
o_pportunities across the spectrum of our businesses. We are seeking spring grads with majors in 
"The freshmen have been really 
Liberal Arts or Business for these opportunities.
eager to learn and open to what we're saying." Since the squad is comprised of 
Learn more by attending the VW Credit Career Session to be held on: 
so many underclassmen, some of the younger players have had to take leadership roles on the team. According to Coughlin, the two junior captains, Parolin and Lauren Kuzniar, along with 


Sign up now for the opportunity to interview with one of the best companies you'll ever consider for
Thomas, have filled this assign­ment well. your career. If unable to attend, you can send your resume via e-mail to: Wendy.Phillips@vw.com "We have more in common and 
or FAX: 847-371-4015. An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/DN.
we're able to have a lot of fun in 
and out of the water," said 
Kuzniar. 
Coughlin believes that the team's unity has helped increase the level of play. "People are more eager to 

Volkswagen 
l1fifiD
go to practice and tournaments. 
because they enjoy spending time 

with each other," he said. "It also 
redit
helps playing because everybody 
Financial Services 
believes in and trusts each other." 
The increased popularity of 

women's water polo at Notre 
Dame stems directly from the 
surge the sport has experienced ° Colleagues Wanted. 
throughout the country. Although 
it has been played in California 
since the 1920's and 30s. the first 
r------­
,~
,;;  
t\  
'.i  page 22  The Observer . SPORTS  Friday, February 16, 2001  
\1  
~  
~  BASEBALL  

t 1
1 Irish return to Starkville, look to open 2001 with success 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Assisranr Sports Editor 
Kicking off what looks to be a magical season for the Irish baseball team, the Irish head to Mississippi State on a magic bus. 


Notre Dame flies from Chicago to Memphis today, then takes a high-tech bus from Memphis to Starkville. Miss., where they will take part in a weekend tourna­ment. The bus comes equipped with Direct TV and data ports. providing luxury for the four­hour drive. 
"It's unbelievable," said junior center-fielder Steve Stanley. "This guy that drives it his name is Everett. He really treats us first-class. It's a great time. 
Notre Dame opens its season Saturday against New Orleans in the same stadium where they ended their season last year. 2001 marks the first year in Notre Dame history that they open the season in the same sta­dium the previous season ended. 
Taking on New Orleans has a special meaning for the Irish. New Orleans is coached by Randy Bush -who was a star pinch-hitter for the Minnesota Twins in the late 1980's as well as a New Orleans alumnus. 
Bush also is best friends with Irish coach Paul Mainieri. Mainieri and Bush played together both at Miami-Dade North Community College and New Orleans. In fact, the two men served in each other's wed­ding. 
The Irish will battle fatigue on Saturday. Although the team is not expected to arrive in Starksville until midnight, Notre Dame takes on New Orleans 

/ I 
I 

bright and early at 10 a.m. 
Following the New Orleans game, Mainieri's team will have little rest, challenging Mississippi State at 1 p.m. Last season, the Mississippi State's ninth-inning victory in Starksville ended the Notre Dame season. 
The Irish take on the host Bulldogs again at 1 p.m. Sunday. 
Bush brings in a revamped New Orleans squad. The team went 38-25 last year and won the Sun Belt conference. However, the Privateers return only nine letter winners. 
The Irish, on the other hand, return seven of nine starters from a 2000 squad that went 48-18 and was only one win away from the College World Series. 
Senior All-American righthander Aaron Heilman sur­prised nearly everybody in the Notre Dame baseball community when he elected to return to Notre Dame for his senior year after being selected as a "sand­wich pick" between the first­and second-round of the Major League Baseball draft. 
Heilman owns a 28-7 record and a 2.80 earned-run average during his three years on the mound. 
Senior righthander Danny Tamayo proved to be an invalu­able asset on the mound last season following Tommy John surgery that sidelined him early in his career. Tamayo pitched a three-hit shutout over Mississippi State in the NCAA Regionals last season. 
The Irish offense returns seven starters -including two dangerous offensive weapons in senior shortstop Alec Porzel and sophomore rightfielder Brian Stavisky. Porzel led the team with 58 runs-batted-in while Stavisky slugged a team-high 14 home runs. 
Juniors Paul O'Toole and 
Stanley will be looked upon to 
add speed to the Irish offense. 
Stanley led the team last season 
with a .362 average and 29 
stolen bases. O'Toole provided 
strong defense behind the plate 
while slugging eight homers and 
swiping 16 bases. 
The Irish face an uphill battle 
this weekend, as they take on 
two teams that have the advan­
tage of year-round warm weath­
er to practice outdoors. Stanley 
considers Notre Dame's famil­
iarity with Starkville will make 
up for any disadvantage in prac­
tice time. 
"Going back to Starkville is 
going to help us, playing in a 
place we're familiar with," 
Stanley said. "We've got seven 
starters in the lineup that start­
ed last year. We've got a great 
pitching staff. I don't think not 
being outside is going to hurt us 
too much." 
Notre Dame Travel Office Presents ... ESSENTIAL EUROPE June 8 -July 2, 2001: 25 days, 11 COUNTRIES 


ENJOY YOUR FIRST ALUMNI TOUR AS AN ND GRAD ON THE SPEC­TACULAR ESSENTIAL EUROPE TOUR specifically designed.for the Class of2001 ! 
Graduation is closer then you think-and with graduation comes CELEBRATION! BRING A BROTHER, SISTER. and COUSIN OR FRIEND and make this a lifetime memory! 
From the sun-kissed beaches of Greece to the glorious art of Florence. Europe· s infinite variety of people. place, and traditions is the perfect setting for your celebration tour. 
Travel \vith fellow ND grads and capture the flavor of England. France. Belgium. Holland. Germany, Switzerland, Liechenstein. Austria. Italy, the Vatican City, and Greece. 
All-inclusive Land Programs $2389. Approximate airfare from Chicago 
$815, taxes not included. Book Land and Air by Feb. 26th and save $125. 


Click onto http://www.nd.edu/~alumtrv/eseuintr.htm and learn more about this special trip ...contact Barb Hunter in the Notre Dame Alumni Association at 219-631-8724 or toll free at 1-800-634-2631 or AESU Alumni World Travel for non-specific tour info: 1-800-638-7640. 
i. Don't miss out on this once in a lifetime opportunity! I 

JOHN DAILY/The Observer 
Irish rightflelder Steve Stanley led the Irish with 14 home runs in 2000. Notre Dame opens the 2001 season against New Orleans Saturday Morning at Mississippi State. 

csc 
CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

SUMMER INTERNSHIP OPPORTUNITIES WITH... 
ACCION 
A MJCROLENDJNG ORGANl7ATJON ASSISTING SMALL BUSINESS OWNERS WITH POOR CREDIT HISTORY TO OBTAIN LOANS TO IMPROVE AND BUIW THEIR BUSINESSES 
10-12 WEEK INTERNSHIPS AVAILABLE IN: ALBUQUERQUE CHICAGO EL PASO NEW YORK CITY SANANTONIO SAND/EGO 
BENEFITS: 
COMPETITIVE COMPENSATION 3 COLLEGE CREDITS HOUSING PROVIDED BUSINESS EXPERIENCE 
Applications available at the Center for Social Concerns and MCOB Undergraduate Office 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: FEBRUARY 20, 2001 
INTERVIEWS FEBRUARY 21 & 22 AT THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 


Friday, February 16, 2001 

The Observer . TO DAY page 23 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
MOM. t>AC. I't> LIKE TO 
I REALIZE HOW l>IFFICULT
TAKE THIS MOMENT TO 
THE FINANCIAL SAO'UFICES
THANK YOU FOR PRO­
CAN BE, AND Ba.IEVE ME.
VIDING ME WITH THE 
YOUR EFFORTS HAVEN'T
OffORTVNITY TO ATTEND 
GONE UNNOTICEO.


Fox TROT 
MOM AND DAD SAY ol(, Ok. THEY'RE HUN6RY HERE'S ENOUGH To EAT A THE HoRSE. SPAGHETTI. 
J I 
\f 
I THOUGHT YOU  1 DIDN'T.  
WEREN'T PUTTING  THEY J'UST  
MUSHROOMS IN  KINDA &REW  
THE SAUCE.  ON THEIR OWN.  

' l(() '­
I
(i!" 
CROSSWORD 

MAYSE WE CALM DOWN. 
OUGHT To THERE'S A F1NO A CHANCE I'M HORSE. KIDDING. 
I 
' 
TYLER

THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 


.. 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
_,.......,....,.....,~_, 10 Swamp snapper 
11 Atlanta Rhythm Section's "Do Die" 
12 Moment of truth 13 One may work with oils 14 Word after family or object 
21 Expert in bryophytes 
23 He used to follow the news 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

SUB offers you some other options. • • 
Girlfight and The 6th Day 
Friday  101 & 155 DeBartolo  0800PM & 1030PM  
Saturday  101 & 155 DeBartolo  OBOOPM & 1030PM  
Tickets: $2  

Nazz 2001 applications available for bands and solo performers starting Friday outside the SUB office in LaFortune 
50 Is out, in a way 52 Moonfish 54 Place runners?: 
Abbr. 55 Developing 
solution 56 Lots 58 Calendario 
opener 59 Meddle 60 French 
Symbolist Odilon · 61 Utmost 
DOWN 
1 Short holidays? 2 Faze 3 Any of the Magi 4 Itch S Cupcakes 6 Noodles 7 "Howards End" 
role 8 Sticks together 9 Venice-to­
Naples dir. 
HOROSCOPE 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2001 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: LeVar Burton, John McEnroe, Lisa Loring, Andy Tay­lor, Ice-T, William Katt 
Happy Birthday: This is not the year to sit back watching oth­ers take center stage. Get your priorities straight and go after your goals. You have plenty to offer, so don't wait for others to prompt you. Your sound ideas and solutions will be well­received. You can get ahead financially if you are astute in your investments and rely on your instincts to lead you in the right direction. Your numbers: 19, 23, 26, 31, 40, 43 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Your interest in educational affairs, teaching and children is growing. Greater self-confidence is helping you deal with others in a more open and honest way, resulting in better friendships. 
00000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
Don't travel unless you have no other choice. Talk to relatives who have not been well and see if there is any way you can assist them. Work on home projects. 
000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Keep everyone you live with too busy to complain. Children may pose a problem if they don't like your suggestions. Make sure you pay enough attention to your lover if you don't want to con­tend with pouting and the "poor me" syndrome. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Keep working to take your mind off past unpleasant exreriences. You have to let go o the past once and for all. You can't get on with your life unless you do. 
000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Try to include the whole family in your social events. Accept an 

Birthday Baby: You have a zest for life, and your friends and family will fin:i it hatd to keep up with YOI.L You are always oo the go and. eager to trv rei,v ~ You are competitive. raring and creative in all that you do. 
(Need adVtce? Oleck out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com. astromate.com.) · 
EUGENIA LAST 

invitation to do something dif­ferent. You need to experience other cultures or ways of doing things. 00000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Organize your day carefully. Someone you care about may be overreacting to situations con­cerning money. Offer to pay his or her way if it will help. 00 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Pleasure trips or visiting biends will be most enjoyable. There will be sudden changes due to unpre­di ctable individuals in your home.0000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Handle all the details regarding your personal financial situation. Don't question your boss's deci­sions. Just follow instructions carefully.000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nmt 22-Dec 21): Don't get dragged into secret encounters. It is best to keep your feelings and intentions out in the open so that there will be no mis­take or misinterpretation of your plans.00
CAPRICORN (Dec 22-Jan. 19): Keep your emotions clear of your professional decisions. You can make financial gains if you don't take risks. Don't let confu­sion lead you down the wrong 
path.000
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You can meet that·special person if you attend fund-raising events. Your ability to intellectually daz­zle others with your innovative ideas will attract attention. 
0000 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
Travel will be enticing but ~n­si.ve. Be sure to look into the cheap­est way to explore your desired destinations. Don't exaggerate when dealing with other people's lives. You may hurt someone's feel. ings unintentionally. 00 
i 
!
, 
1 
j 
--•1• 
' 
1
' 
• 

THE LAST FEW YEARS HAVE REALLY MEANT A LOT TO 
ME. AND I JUST WANTED 
TO LET YOU KNOW THAT I 
REALLY APPRECIATE 
EVERYTHING YOV' VE DONE 
TOM KEELEY 
SO WOVLO YOV Pt.EASE GET Off THE BAR SO THAT we CAN GO HOM8?1 
BILL AMEND 

Puzzle by Nelson Hardy 
25 Jittery 
28 Basketball 
Hall-of-Farner Hawkins 29 Like some urges 31 Units of wisdom? 33 Card 34 Isolated 35 Picked up 37 "Likewise" 40 Story 44 Cry before a fall 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420·5656 {95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
ACROSS 

1 Novelty item in comic book ads 10 Widget 15 Rocked the boat 16 Go on (rampage) 17 Previously 18 Trunks 19 Atlas abbr. 20 Shoe box marking 21 Sour 22 Provides a seat for 24 Koh-i-_ (106­carat diamond) 26 Brooder 27 Near Eastern inn 28 Egg holders: Abbr. 
29 Wear a long face 30 Lies down 32 Feint 33 "The Fugitive" star of SO's TV 36 Popular, in a way 38 It may be on a roll 39 Schoolmaster, to the classroom 41 "The Birth of a Nation" group 42 A bed in the kitchen? 43 Significant others 47 Listen to one's gut? 48 Le Carre's Leamas 49 Siamese, e.g. 

45 Gas guzzler 46 Parlor piece 48 Welder's wear 49 In the cards 51 First name in 
architecture 
53 Meat 

56 Dynasty during which much of the Great Wall of China was built 
57 Batting stat. 
• 




Revenge in Ann Arbor 

Irish hockey travels to Michigan to avenge a 9-0 thrashing by the Wolverines on Jan. 23. 

page 21 

·ft 
O
THE 

BSERVER Friday, February 16, 200I 
Irish hold slim lead, break three school records 
Swimming Championships. then surged ahead in the last 25 Allison Lloyd, Lisa D'Olier and [Nixon, who is not competingThe Irish, who won two events yards. Danielle Hulick had the rest of because of an injury]," he said. 
and set three school records, Her time in the finals, 2:01.87. the Irish swim team on their feet The Irish completely dominat­hold a slim lead after the first was actually slower than the screaming. ed the 400-yard individual med­UNIONDALE, N.Y. day of competition. Notre Dame school-record 2:01. 7 4 she swam Hecking led off the relay with a ley. In the preliminaries, both With 50 yards of freestyle left has 184 points, followed by in the preliminaries. Labosky personal best 55.16, breaking Labosky and freshman Lisa to go in the women's 200-yard Miami, broke Tanya Williams' 1990 William's 1993 school record. As Garcia swam NCM provisional individual medley, it appeared as See Also who has mark, which was the oldest each swimmer finished their qualifying times. In the finals, if the duel between Notre Dame 1 7 6 record remaining at Notre Dame. 100-yard leg, the Irish women Garcia took fourth and D'Olier 

Marie Labosky and Miami's Jen "Irish in fourth after p o i n ts . "I felt worse [in the finals] than broke out in cheers as they real­placed eighth. Weir would be decided by frac­first day of Big East" Virgin i a this morning," she said. 'Tm a ized the relay team was still on Tiffany O'Brien won the conso­tions of a second. Tech sits distance swimmer and I knew I pace to set the record. lation finals. while Laurie
, 
l 
page 17 in third
After all, Labosky had pushed could bring it home. I get When Hulick finished six sec­Musgrave and Lloyd took sixth 
off the wall a mere three hun­place with touched out in the end so much, onds ahead of second-place and seventh. In all. Notre Dame dredths of a second ahead of the 159.5 points. and I just thought Tm not going Virginia Tech. the Notre Dame scored 60 points in this event. defending Big East champion. "I just wanted to go and have a to let that happen this time."' section erupted into cheers and Sophomore Nicole Kohrt 
But the talented freshman, good time -that's what helps The four members of the raised their arms in triumph. In turned in the most surprising swimming her strongest stroke me swim fast, staying relaxed. I women's 400-yard medley relay the excitement, coach Bailey performance of the evening in and backed by a season of was feeding off the fact that I had team were the only other Irish Weathers was knocked off the the 500-yard freestyle. Before intense endurance swimming, two other awesome girls in the swimmers to win an event, shat­bleachers by exuberant Notre. today's competition, the fastest pulled a body length ahead of same heat," Labosky said. tering the school record they set Dame swimmers congratulating Kohrt had ever swum in that Weir to win her first-ever Big The freshman actually trailed last year at the Big East champi­each other. event was 5:05.99. East title by a second and a half for most of the race, but pulled onship meet in the process. "They had a great time, and 

in the first day of the Big East even in the breaststroke and The team of Kelly Hecking, they even did it without Carrie 
see SWIM/page 17 
WOMEN'S WATER POLO 

Notre Dame's fledgling squad looks to make a splash 


,, 

Senior captain Lisa Thomas passes the ball to a teammate after making a save at the Collegiate Club Nationals in Tuscon, Arizona last May. The team placed seventh at the tournament. 
Observer Staff Report 

In the spring of 1995, Mary Sundy, Bridgid Fitzpatrick and Katie McCoyd approached Brian Coughlin. then the captain of the men's water polo team and currently the rector of Carroll Hall, with a simple request: They wanted their own game; they were tired of playing with the men. 
Although there had been women playing with the guys' team for a few years. there were never quite enough to form a separate team. However, by 1995, a handful of women were coming to practice consis­tently. 
Coughlin agreed. but with one stipulation: there would have to be nine women at practice every night for two weeks. Then he would get them a game. 
Amazingly. 14 women attend­ed practice every night for three weeks. True to his promise, Coughlin called a fellow captain at Bowling Green State University and they set up a tournament between four Midwestern teams. 
The original squad, comprised of nine women from Notre Dame-and one from Saint Mary's, went to the tournament and proved to be far better than the other women's teams. hav­ing practiced with guys for so 
see POLO/page 21 

Baseballvs. New Orleans 

at Michigan vs. Seton Hall 
at Mississippi State 

Friday, 7:35 p.m. Sunday, 2 p.m.
SPORTS 
Saturday, 10 a.m. 
ATA 

Swimming 
Softball 
at Rutgers

at Big East Championships at Holiday Inn Invitational 
Saturday, 7:30 p.m.

Today -Saturday Today -Sunday
GLANCE 




