
Lights, camera, action 
Changes lo du Lac 
Check inside for previews of eight films from 
Faculty Senate proposed a change in the way 
Friday
this weekend's annual student 

du Lac permits policy changes. No, parietals 
film festival. 

will not be eliminated. 
JANUARY 26, 
Scene . page 12 

News . page 5 
2001 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 74 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 




Moving Toward the Dream 


Part IV: Spring Visitation 


Although the Spring Visitation Weekend convinces numerous minority applicants to enroll at Notre Dame, some believe the University engages in 



Deceptive Diversity 
Editor's Note: In honor of Martin Luther King. Jr. celebrations on campus, The Observer explores diversity issues in a four part series. Part Four exam-· 
ins the techniques used to attract prospectives on Spring Visitation Weekend. 
tor of Multicultural Student
By CHRISTINE KRALY 
Programs and Services (MSPS).
News Writer 

"[Because some students have told me) 'ah, they fooled me with 
Some people might consider the that weekend."' Spring Visitation Weekend -an And although it's not the inten­event held annu-tion of the week­ally to allow end, he said,
"ft gives them a false 
high talent some participat­minority stu­sense that stufflike this ing students are dents to visit negatively affect­
happens all the time ... " 
campus -to be ed when they a success pri­return in the fall. marily because Iris Outlaw "It gives them 60 percent of the director of MSPS a false sense that 
weekend's atten­dees enroll at the University and therefore increase its diversity. 
But some students and adminis­trators believe that the Spring Visitation Weekend, with its emphasis on multicultural stu­dents and activities paints a false picture of Notre Dame. 
"I have some problems with it," said Kevin Huie, assistant direc­
stuff like that 
happens all the 

time," Iris Outlaw, director of MSPS, said. "But the hosts try to be very frank with them." 
"Hosts are expected to definite­ly give the students an accurate expectation of what college life is like at Notre Dame and not to be hesitant to share," Outlaw contin­ued. 
"You have to give them 

By MIKE CONNOLLY 
News Writer 
Benchwarmer's and Finnigan's may not be the only bars raided thi"s school year. In a release about the raid at Benchwarmer's Wednesday night South Bend Police said they will continue to look for underage patrons in tav­erns. 
"The South Bend Police Department has been monitoring the underage patrons throughout the city in different bars and tav­erns in the past and will continue to do so in the future," Captain John Williams said in a prepared statement. 
Kim Fenzel. a junior science major, thinks Notre Dame is somehow more involved with the police this year in arresting underaged patrons at local bars. 
"I just think Notre Dame is tak­ing more action this year, espe­cially since last year it seemed like nobody got busted. This year even parties are getting busted and people are getting carded at parties," said Fenzel who was at Benchwarmer's Wednesday night but is 21. "I just think [Notre Dame and the South Bend Police) think the problem is getting out of hand. But I don't know why this year is any different from last [prospective students] a real pic­ture," Huie added. "Everyone involved is encouraged to say 'Hey, this is how it is."' 
Huie tries to make students understand that Notre Dame isn't for everyone. When he meets stu­dents that weekend he tells them. "This may not be for you. What are you looking for?" 
Despite the warning, a majority of the visiting students enroll 
see RACE/page 4 


Police anticipate more bar busts 
year." 
Bill Kirk. assistant vice presi­dent of Residence Life, said the University is not pushing the South Bend Police to bust more bars this year. 
"I don't know why people would think that," Kirk said. "South Bend Police and the City have the same interests that we do. We regularly speak with South Bend Police and the City but we don't discuss any specific things related to drinking." 
Kirk also denied having prior knowledge of the Finnigan's or Benchwarmer's busts. 
"I learned about it in [The Observer] today," Kirk said. "I am not trying to evade anything. I didn't know anything in advance." 
South Bend Police did not return phone calls requesting comment on the apparent increased number of citations this school year. 
Although cited students outside Benchwarmer's Wednesday night said more than 50 students were cited, the Police reported only 18 underaged citations. All 18 under­aged patrons were Notre Dame students. 
According to a police press release. officers "have responded to Benchwarmer's for numerous complaints about disturbances inside and outside the establish­ment" in recent weeks. 
At 10:45 p.m. officers entered Benchwarmer's to observe under­age patrons, police said. When they noticed numerous patrons who appeared to be underage, they called in several other offi­cers and began checking I.D.s according to police reports. 
Police said several fake I.D.s were confiscated. 
Both the St. Joseph County Prosecutors Office and the University were notified of the citations. 
Kirk could not comment on pos­sible punishments for the students cited. 
"The process is like its always been," he said. "I don't know what will happen until we exam­ine the case more closely." 
Most of the 147 students cited at Finnigan's Irish Pub on Oct. 2 received a $100 fine from the University in addition to a $220 fine and 40 hours of community service from St. Joseph's County. 
A manager at Benchwarmer's had no comment on possible legal consequences for the bar. 
Two members of the men's bas­ketball team and one football player were cilcd at Finnigan's. None of the 18 people cited at Benchwarmer's were football or men's basketball players, accord­ing to police records. 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, January 26, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN 
A few of my favorite things 
I'm too sentimental. I admit it. (I've been known to cry while watching the news.) And suddenly I'm faced with the last few months at. the place that I dreamed all of my life about attending. So I have a feeling that next year when I'm at a place where no one's heard of quarterdogsorSYRsl might be a bit lonely. And maybe it's the result of watching "The Sound of Music" one too many times when I was little, but I'm guessing that I'm going to be looking back and remembering my favorite things about Notre Dame for the rest of my life. Here are just a few. 
l)Watching Rudy close to a million times and still getting chills from the music 
2)Going to Mass in pajamas 3)An amazing women's basketball team that's finally getting the credit they deserve 4)Being woken up to run around campus on the morning of the first football game 5)Witnessing someone throw up in the din­ing hall 
6)Having my roommate call a dance date for me out of the dogbook, then deciding to take him again the next year 
7)A random roommate match freshman year that results in a best friend 8)Reckers smoothies trips to cure any prob­lem that seems too big 9)The feeling you get after walking out of your last final 
lO)Playing football in the snow on the quad 
1l)Discovering that the chairs in Nieuwland are the most comfortable place to sleep on campus 
12)The SuperPub 
13)Housekeepers who are smiling and friendly, even on Mondays as they clean up the mountain of trash from the weekend 
14)Taking social dance 
15)Praying at the grotto at night 
16}Learning that waking up at 8:24 gives you plenty of time to make it to DeBartolo for an 8: 30 class 17)Seeing the Dome for the first time after returning from a break 18)Walking out the tunnel after beating Michigan 
19)The excitement of wating for barbeque chicken and macaroni and cheese day in the dining hall 
20)Witnessing Mike Brown's enthusiasm for the Fighting Irish 
21)Parents who are glad to listen when you call to complain about how hard you're work­ing and how busy you are 
22)Siegfried tailgates 
23)Finding out how fun women's soccer games are, sadly too late to attend another one 
24)Any night that ends at The 'Backer 
25)Going to Galvin in the middle of the night to check on fruit flies 
26)Breakfast at Fat Shirley's 
27)Not leaving the stadium after our final football game until the ushers forced us out 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Erin Plroutek 
Associate News Editor 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Kate Nagengast Amanda Greco Erin Piroutek Graphics Scott Brodfuehrer 
Jose Cuellar Sports Production Noah Amsradter Andrew Soukup Viewpoint Lab Tech Pat Kelly Angela Campos 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday <XC<pt during ex.am and vacalion J>"<iods. The Observer is • memb<er of the A.uociatcd Prc,s. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 
24-hour lounge opens in Lafortune January 23, 1991 
After three years of work, an on-campus, non-dorm 24­hour place for students to retreat after parietals became a reality. The basement of Lafortune was designated as 24-hour space. With the help of Joe Cassidy, director of Student Activities, student govern­ment leaders Rob Pasin and Fred Tombar worked to gain the funding and approval for the lounge. 
Hesburgh chairs Rockefeller Foundation January 25, 1977 
University President Father Theodore Hesburgh was elected to chair the Board of Trustees of the Rockefeller Foundation. The foundation cited his "international rep• utation as an outstanding educator" and his "vigorous and consistent support of the civil rights and economic opportunity of minorities." The foundation's motto is "For the good of mankind everywhere." 
Compiled from U-Wire reports
OUTSIDE THE DOME 


Gore to teach journalism at Columbia 
NEWYORK Columbia University will soon be home to Professor Al Gore. 
The former vice president will be taking a position as a visiting profes­sor at the Columbia School of Journalism. where he will teach a seminar called Covering National Affairs in the Information Age with the Fred Friendly Professor of Media and Society Richard Wald and Assistant Professor and former New York Times staff writer Craig Wolff. 
Gore. who worked as a reporter for the Tennessean from 1973 to 1976 before entering politics will teach his first class on Feb. 6. According to the Associated Press, he will lecture between six to eight times this semes­ter and may return for a second semester. · 

. . . ' . ' . 
.' ~­

"It's a wonderful thing and a won­derful opportunity for Columbia," said Associate Dean of the Journalism School Evan Cornog on Wednesday. 
Efforts to reach the Dean of the Journalism School Wednesday night were unsuccessful. 
TEXAS A&M 

School pushes for Bush library 
COLLEGE STATION, Texas 
George W. Bush's administration is only days old, but Texas A&M University is already considering his legacy as it competes to house another presidential library. At its Jan. 16 meeting, the Board of Regents adopted a res­olution honoring Bush and asking him to consider A&M when selecting the location for his future presidential library. "Right now it's just a dream on our part, and we'll have to wait for a response from them," said A&M President Ray Bowen. Baylor University in Waco and Southern M~thodist University (SMU) in Dallas have also expressed interest in hosting the George W. Bush Library. First lady Laura Bush received her undergradu­ate degree from SMU. A&M is already home to former President George Bush's library, which opened in 1997. Having both libraries in the same location would under­score the historical significance of the Bushes being only the second father-son pair to occupy the White House, Bowen said. Having the elder Bush's library has been a tremendous boon to the University, Bowen said. 
LOCAL WEATHER 

S Day South Bend Forecast AccuWealher forecast fa-daytime cooditions and high lemperdlllreS 

4,~,QpQQ (f ~ u 

Showers J:storms Rain Ffu"ies Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Gore will also teach classes at Middle Tennessee State and Fisk University while working on a book, according to Thursday's New York Times. Columbia did not officially announce Gore's plans Wednesday because he had planned to make the announcement himself in Tennessee Thursday. 
Neither Wolff nor Wald, who is also the Chairman of the Spectator's Board of Trustees. had been told about Gore's plans until late Wednesday. After the news was announced on ABC News and other national press sources, the Journalism school sent its students an announcement via e-mail. 
Wolff said he was "just happy" to hear the news."I'm just ecstatic for the students," Wolff said. 

CALIFORNIA STATE-CHICO 

Frat boys charged in pledge death 
CHICO, Calif. 

Three Pi Kappa Phi fraternity members are facing fines and jail time after Butte County District Attorney Mike Ramsey officially charged them Jan. 18 in con­nection to the death of Chico State University first-year student Adrian Heideman. Brandon Bettar, Richard De Luna and Sam Dobbyn were all charged with the mis­demeanor of furnishing alcohol to a minor and will be arraigned in court on Feb. 5. The maximum penalty for the crime is a $1,000 fine and up to a year in jail. Heideman, 18, was found dead on Oct. 7 at the Pi Kappa Phi fraternity house. after a night of drinking blackberry brandy with members as part of a big brother ceremony, Ramsey said. Although Bettar was not at the event at the time that Heideman was found dead. Ramsey said he was still being charged because of his responsibility to the organization as the fraterni­ty president and because of his insistence that the event take place. De Luna and Dobbyn, however, were at the ceremony. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 

O 2001 AccuWe.ather, Inc. WARM' 5TAflONARY 

V'IS ,A.91110d,s/ud P,vss  
Atlanta  50  36  Las Vegas  48  36  Portland  48  32  
Baltimore  40  28  Memphis  48  36  Sacramento  49  35  
Boston  38  26  Milwaukee  30  22  St. Louis  36  25  
Chicago  34  22  New York  38  32  Tampa  65  46  
Houston  68  54  Philadelphia  40  28  Wilmington  40  30  


Friday, January 26, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
WORTH THE WAIT 



Ballet 
•
Beginner and Advanced classes 

•Students 
are instructed according to their level 

• 
The fun way to stay healthy and fit 


Classes Meet:  
Beginner  Sundays  1 :00-2:30pm  
Wednesdays  6:30-7:45pm  
Advanced  Sundays  2:30-4:00pm  
Wednesdays  7:45-9:00pm  
Pointe  Sundays  4:00-4:45pm  
Wednesdays  9:00-9:30pm  

All classes will meet at the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 
Information Meeting Sunday, January 28 1pm-RSRC Activity Room 2 
Register in advance at ,e.-..~ Registration fee is $39.00, Pointe class is only $10.00 Sign 11ps begin Monday, January 29, 8:00am Class begins Wednesday, February 7 Space is limited 
F-ACULTY SENATE 



Senate proposes du Lac policy changes 
By JASON McFARLEY 
Assistant News Editor 
In a move that may translate into unprecedented change for the University handbook, the Faculty Senate on Wednesday took aim at du Lac, Notre Dame's guide to stu­dent life. 
At its rngular meeting, the sen­ate unanimoll5ly pas.5ed three res­olutions concerning the handbook, and members will now direct the proposed shifts to the new Advisory Council on Academic and Student Life (ACASL). 
Today members expect faculty senate chair Jean Port.er to email the approved resolutions to University provost Nathan Ilat.ch and vice president for student affairs Mark Poonnan, ACA.~L co­chairs. 
"I hope administrators will be receptive to the resolutions, but it only seems logical that they would be," said philosophy professor Ed Manier, chainnan of the senate's ~iudent affairs committee. 
The resolutions, approved by each of 19 senators, cent.er around the du Lac introduction, which indicates a process by which stu­dents and clubs may propose changes to the handbook. In par­ticular, the measures deal with the University's unofficial policy of drafting major changes to du Lac every two years. 
Bill Kirk, assistant vice president for residence life, acknowledged

r.==============---------====:::::::.1i students or student groups 
Dtt,vn Hill Ski Trip 

Friday, February 2 
Swiss Valley 
Bus leaves Library Circle at 5:00pm 
Cost: $32.00 Includes lift ticket, rental and transport $23.00 lift ticket and transport only 
Return bus leaves Swiss Valley at 1 0:00pm 
Beginner Lessons Available 
-Free of Charge! Register and Pay at RecSports by January 31 

R-=-~ 
that the University makes annual changes to the handbook and every other year "open oun.elv1>s up to the possibility of' more changes." 
The senate proposals highlight three areas ofconcern in du Lac: 
. 
A discn)pa.ncy b<)tween the aca­demic lrcL'liom granted to profes­sors by the faculty hamllxJOk and that granted to studenls in du Lac 

. 
Hearing procedures for disci­plining &tudtmt organizations 

. 
Faculty participation in major revisions of'du Lac 


Manier said the same freedom guaranteed in the faculty hand­book and the University's "Academic Articl<'S" is not granted In students in du Lac. 
··1nat freedom should be six~lled out, C'lpl,'cially in connection witJ1 student organizations." Manier said. "Students shouldn't have to sacrifice their academic freedom simply becal.lS(l they fonn a dub." 
Manier al.<;0 took issue witJ1 how matters concerning stud<mt clubs are addn,.><;sed. 
The senate's proposed change ~uggc>sts an alternative to tJ1c way student organizations' cases of' alleged wrongdoing arc handled. The shill would effectively allow more faculty and student repre­sentation in the hearing and judi­cial procCSS('S, Manier said. 
Another senate rr_solution calls for additional faculty involvement in major changes of tJ1e student handbook. While du Lac cumm!Jy details a procedure for individual 
to recommend changes to the handbook, it deni<'S fac­ulty participation in the revi­sion process. 
"We want to establish the fact that the Office of Residence Life isn't the end­all be-all of du Lac revi­sions," Manier said. 
Thursday, Kirk said he does not envision any major changl.'S to du Lac. 
"At the moment, we don't have any big plan.,; in mind. I don't think we will under­go many changes," he said. 
However, Kirk said before the Campus Life Council's first March mL>et· ing, he will meet with the group to identify any areas under consideration for revision in the next edition ofdu Lac. 



Tired of living in that cramped dorm room or the same old apartment? 
Live in Oak Hill next year! . Two Bedroom/two bathroom townhouse for sale. Includes fireplace, patio and community pool. Just two minutes from campus! Please call Erica or Kyle at (315) 641-1927 for further information. 
Shorin-Ryu Karate 
Discipline•Self Defense•Self Confidence•Fitness 
Classes begin Thursday, February 1 Continuous program• $25.00 per semester Meets: Tuesdays & Thursdays 6:00-7:30pm Rockne RM. 219 

Demonstration: Tuesday, January 30 Rockne Rm. 219 • 6:30pm egister in advance at RecSports for classes 
~~ 
page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, January 26, 2001 



Race 
continued from page 1 
with the University after the weekend and return in the fall to a different picture. 
"We get feedback about it," said Outlaw. "And we do worry, but even though we inform the students that this is not what happens all the · time, the visual supersedes or overrides the auditory. So in essence they still believe this is what goes on all the time." 
The visual presented to minority recruits is a Notre Dame filled with multicultural activities and leaders. 
The Hispanic student-spon­sored Latin Expressions is Friday night. Saturday brings several alumni to campus for a luncheon with minority alumni boards for an "oppor­tunity to meet with alumni on board" who have received the prospective students' names in advance to better facilitate their meeting, said Outlaw. 
There is also an organiza­tion fair through which stu­dents can learn about all the clubs and groups on campus they may have a interest in joining. The ROTC program and all the ethnic groups are usually the most popular draws of the day, according to organizers. 
There is a closing dinner that evening, usually with a guest speaker who is general­ly a successful minority alum­nus from around the country. 
"It's true it's a very heavy weekend for multicultural events," said Jesse Dang, a senior who has been involved with the Spring Visitation pro­ject for three years. Organizers don't want to over­whelm the students, but do want to do what it takes to encourage them to attend 
Notre Dame. events for three years. 
Not everyone thinks this del­"It's very important that the uge of multicultural activities hosts are honest," she said. "If is misleading, however. they don't let the prospects 
"These are the minorities know that 'no, it's not always from campus," Santana said. like this,' it could make their "The University does not bring transition in the fall that more in minority students from out­difficult." side the campus. This is just a The success of the weekend, time when they come togeth­she said, depends on how well er. I don't think we try to fool they inform students. about the students." Notre Dame minority life. 
Santana noted that the Not everyone can be a weekend visitors stay in Spring Visitation host. What it dorms housing all races and takes is a good mix of open­attend Friday classes with stu­ness, responsibility, experi­dents of all backgrounds. ence and -according to many 
"This is something minori­involved in the weekend -a 
ties [on cam- minority  
pus] look for­ward to each  "We don't try to foster a  background. "It was  
year,  she  false image. {Some peo­ something  I  
said. "We don't try to foster a  ple have said] you 're try­ing to brainwash people.  always looked forward to," said Santana,  
false image,"  That's not true . .,  who  was  a  
said Belinda  host all four  
Bryant, the African­ Belinda Bryant  years of her undergradu­ 
American  student coordinator  ate studies at  
student coor- Notre Dame.  
dinator  for  The  Office  

the weekend. "[Some peo·pie of Admissions sends host have said] you're trying to information cards and letters brainwash people. That's not inviting students to be hosts in true." Lhe fall to all minorities on 
Bryant, though, who was a campus. And though the invi­Spring Visitation attendee, tation is open to many, the admits to initially having trou­hosts generally tend to be ble adjusting to Notre Dame. students who were Spring 
"It was an adjustment," she Visitation students as said. "I'm not Catholic, I come seniors in high school. from a majority black high Hosts are generally school." divided by their ethnic 
The transition to Notre backgrounds. Dame's predominantly white, Each group -Hispanic, Catholic campus was a diffi­Asian, African-American, cult one. And the warnings for example -has a stu­she said she heard all week­dent leader who helps the end did little to help when she groups coordinate details enrolled in the fall. "Even if like decorations and T­[the hosts] tell you, you're not shirts. used to it until you see it." "I had a good time when 
"What could make it be [a I visited," said Dang, who problem) are the hosts," said is the Asian American stu­Gina Corpuz, a senior who has dent coordinator for the participated in the weekend's Spring Visitation weekend and who attended the week­It's not intention of the end when he was in high University to "trick them," school. "I wanted to be able to said Huie. Organizers let them show them the campus like know that it's "not going to be my host did." sunny all the time. A lot of 
When matching a host with people accept it for what it a prospective student. admis­is." sions considers many things But some don't. including the students' home "They don't realize how dif­region, major and ethnic ferent Notre Dame can be background. from their lives at home," he 
Ethnic background, said added. Santana, is the first criterion "We let students know that when making matches. it's important that when you 
Huie helps in finding hosts go to an institution of higher by suggesting students he education that you find the draws from the pool of those office of multicultural affairs involved with ethnic groups ... and utilize the services on campus. ther.c," said Outlaw. "That 
"You don't want to students helps you get into the inner to come and feel so discon­workings of the institution so nected," said Outlaw. There that you don't feel isolated." have been white student hosts The Office of Undergraduate in the past, she added, but Admissions distributes sur­generally they are students veys after the weekend to who have had experience vol­gauge what went well and unteering or working in the what didn't. Results usually South Bend community. vary from year to year. 
The Spring Visitation staff "We always have those stu­tries to reassure prospective dents who didn't have a good students that there is help time, who see the real Notre with adjusting to life at Notre Dame," Santana said. Dame. Some students are looking 
"They see that there's a lot for a plat:e more diverse, of support on campus, even "more like home and for though they don't see a lot of them, [Notre Dame] may not color on campus," Santana be home," she added. 
said~ ________________________.._ 
-. 1 1 f., ; ·; ~-1 I 0 w,.)on.t.. ·111d:" .· _o u .1, 0 -1 ~ -~
l , 

. , 1 I.; r· . 0 _1 .} 1 1Students familiar with both Mac,(OS9)andr· ·. Windows (WIN2000 Professional, Server:) 
1

P,latforms as weH as 'networking~ . -··-' 1 ·t 1 1 0 1 0 i i. 1 0 1 U 1 C · 0 0 1 G J Must,possess strong proble~J solving and1 ~dmini~rf~Y~ ~~i~-1 0 0 1 0 0 1 0 1 0 1 
Salaried P~itio~. Average 5-7 hrs/wk¦ -1 0.1 , E-mail tesume to. mgunvlll@nd.edu 1 0 1 0 
('~ 121 ~ q~ g11.o! 11219.·1 oo 
'.~ i 1 ·1 , , , i • I , 1 2 , 1 , ! 1 1 , i ,, : t ; , : 1 (' 1 



LECTURE 
Monday, January 29, 2001 6 p.m. Notre Dame Room LaFortune Student Center 
Dr.. Peter Meade~ ND "74 
member of DOCTORS WITHOUT BORDERS 
Dr. Meade will speak on his medical work in Sri Lanka treating victims ofland mines and his medical work in inner city Los Angeles treating victims ofdrug and gang wars. Dr. Meade will also give hints on getting into medical school. 
Sponsored by the 
Minority Premed Club 
STUDENT PLAYERS PRESENTS 

id 

IN THE 
es 
• Holmes Turski Williams Conner Rinner Kuennen Jones Greene Roman 


Directed by: David Hartwig Stage Manager: Maureen Jones Lighting Designer: Lindsay Updike Assistant Stage Manager: Megan Ryan 




ATION 
Friday, January 26, 2001 COMPILED 11R0M THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES 
page 5 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Venezuela plane crash kills 24: An airplane carrying 24 people, including 20 European tourisl'i, era.shed Thursday in south­ern Venezuela, an airline spokesman said. All on board were killed, he said. Hutaca Flight 224 crashed in the evening near the southern city of Ciudad Bolivar, said Victor !\rauja, a pilot for llutaca. The cause of the crash or the DC-3 air­craft wasn't immediately known. 
Britain HIV diagnosis reaches high: 
The number of people in Britain diagnosed last year with IIIV. the virus that causes AIDS, is expected to be the highest ever, public health officials said Thursday. The Public Health Laboratory Service said 2,868 new cases of IIIV wnre reported last year., a 7 percent increase l'rom 1CJ99. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 


Former nun banned from teaching: 
/\ former Homan Catholic nun has been barred l'rom leaching Catholic theology at Duquesne University artnr being ordained as an Episcopal priest. .John Murray Jr., president of the Homan Catholic university, said Thursday that Moni Mclntyro was removed from the classroom because of her "public repudiation of' Catholic doctrine," not lwr personal beliefs. Murray said she may be offered a difforent position in the university. 
White House vandalism probed: 
The Bush administration is asking staffers to report any suspected vandalism found when they took over the White Jlousc complex, though u spokesman said he doubts anything or even why tho review was being conductod. Some incoming Bush staffers have grumbled that they found glass desktops broken, key­boards doused with lluids and stripped of' "W" keys and lags identifying phones' numbers switched. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 


Lower drunk threshold debated: 
State Sen. Tom Wyss' decade-long crusade to lower the drunken driving threshold in Indiana will be revived next week when committees in both chambers take up the measure. Wyss. R­Fort Wayne, has introduced the legislation in 10 of the last 11 years. but it has only reached the floor of' the Senate once. That was in 1990, when tho measure died later in the Ilouse. But Wyss 11.nd other lawmakers agree the outlook for tho proposal looks brighter this session, thanks largely to a new federal mandate that threatens to withhold highway dollars from states that don't adopt the reduced standard. 
Market Watch 1/25 
Dow 


10,729.52 +82.55

}ONES 
CompositeUp: Same: 
-,: 
Volume:
1,589 460 
~ NIA 
AMEX: 913.42 +J.60 Nasdaq: 2754.28 -I 04.87 NYSE: 68$.37 t2.ll 
S&P 500: 1357.51 -6.79 TOPS VOLUME LEADERS 

COMl'ANY/SECURllY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE ERICSSON LM-ADR (F.RJCY) ,IIJ(,4 .u, 1.\.00 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) .7.(,.j -3.25 39 31 ORACLE CORI' (ORCL) -0.41 -0.12 29.'/4 NASDAQ 100 SHAR (QQQJ -3.'JI -2.u2 [14.50 JDS UNIPHASE UDSU) -12.4H -7.87 ~5.1') 
EGYPT 


I 
j"
~ 4t 
f ' 
J 
I. 
. ~~h_, 
4 
l 
AFP Pholo 

Mohammed Abu Yussef al-Affendl, a 67-year-old Palestinian refugee In the Dehalshe Refugee Camp, and his son Mustafa look at the original key to the home his family abandoned when they fled their village of Deir Aban dur­ing the 1948 Israeli War of Independence. Like el-Affendi, the thousands of Palestinians who fled during the war and who have been In camps ever since are opposed to a peace agreement with the Israelis which would deny the refugees the Right of Return to their homes In what is now the Jewish State. 
Palestinian borders progress made 
Associated Press 

TABA 
Israeli and Palestinian negotiators made progress on defining tho borders of a Palestinian state Thursday, as peace activists and supporters of hard-line leader Ariel Sharon yelled at each other from boats sailing off the coast or this Hed Sea resort. 
The negotiators resumed their peace talks after a two-day suspen­sion that followed the killing of two Israelis in the West Bank, and they· kept pushing forward despite the killing of another Israeli, a motorist. 
The motorist was shot and killed in an ambush outside Jerusalem in the West Bank a few hours after the talks had resumed. Israeli negotia­tors broke off a session with Palestinians and we'nt into a side room, where Prime Minister Ehud Barak instructed them by telephone to con­tinue, his office said. 
Barak denounced the killing as "a despicable murder." 
In a leaflet circulated in the West Bank, a branch of Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat's Fatah group took responsibility for the ambush. The group named itself the "Thabet Thabet Brigade," after a Fatah leader killed Dec. 31 in an apparent Israeli assassination oper­ation. The leaflet said the shooting was revenge for Thabet's death. 
Two Palestinians were killed in an overnight gunbattle with Israeli sol­diers in the West Bank. Since violence erupted on Sept. 28, 375 people have been killed, including 318 Palestinians, 13 Israeli Arabs, 43 Israeli Jews and one German doctor. 
In an interlude in the talks, the Israeli and 
Palestinian negotiators watched a green ship with a banner reading "Yes to Peace" sail down the coast from tho neigh­boring Israeli city of Eilat. 
Dozens ol' Israelis on the vessel. sailed by the dovish Israeli Peace Now group, shouted "We want peace!" in Hebrew and Arabic toward the shore ofTaba. 
"People are coming here to tell us we need to finish the job," said Palestinian negotiator Vasser Abed Rabbo as he stood alongside his Israeli negotiator Yossi lfoilin on a dock. The two laughed and waved at the ship. 


California crafting power plan 
2002," said Harvey Rosenfield of the credit is practically worthless. 
Associated Press 
Foundation for Taxpayer and Under the proposal discussed 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. Consumer Rights. Thursday, the state would issue rev­
Lawmakers are considering a plan Lawmakers began fashioning the enue bonds that Southern California under which California would issue plan after the state received dozens Edison and Pacific Gas and Electric bonds to cover the multibillion-do!­of' bids Wednesday from suppliers Co. customers would pay back over lar debts of its two biggest electric willing to sign long-term contracts several years, said Assemblyman utilities and make customers pay to sell power to energy-starved Bill Campbell, the Hcpublican the money back over a decade. California. minority leader. 
A consumer advocate immediately The offers bought the Legislature In exchange, the state would get called the proposal a "bailout" and some time to work on a long-term long-term options that would let the promised to fight it with a voter ini­solution to a crisis that resulted in state buy SoCal Edison and PG&E tiative campaign. rolling blackouts last week and has ·stock at a low price. If the price 
"If that's what they plan to do, left the two utilities some $12 billion goes up, the state could sell the they'll have to contend with a in debt. The state is buying power stock and use the profits to pay off ratepayer re.volt at the ballot box in on the utilities' behalf' because their the bonds. 


r 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, January 26, 200 I 
ACE prograin receives award for national service work 
received an award from the ested in service and especially Dreamcoat." Sean McGraw. According to
By MEG DADAY 

Corporation for National service through teaching. lie "I have a friend who started Stashis the mission of ACE is 
News Writer 

Service for the ACE program. also said many try teaching to ACE the year before me who "to provide enthusiastic. tal­
Senior Associate Director Al sec if it is their life's vocation. told me, 'Jim, if you do this ented college graduates to 
It is the first day of school Stashis said, "The award is Seventy-five to 80 percent of you'll work hard, learn a lot serve as teachers in Catholic for Jim Rigg. His first day as a not for anything specific, but ACE's applicants are from and it'll be the most incredible schools." teacher; his first day at the recognizes our cumulative Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. experience of' your life. Just When the program began, it urban, predominantly African­success. It is quite an honor to The program accepts gradu­don't expect to have a social served four dioceses and 40 American, Bishop Byrne High be recognized in the presence ates from all fields of study. life.' And it's all true," said students participated. School in Memphis, Tenn. of so many other great univer­Rigg said that although he Rigg. Currently there are more than 
The Notre Dame alum sities." knew he wanted to teach dur­Rigg also pointed out that 150 students teaching in 13 explains to his senior comput­Receiving an award is not ing his sophomore year of col­new graduates almost always states. er class how to create a folder the only proof of the pro­lege, he was drawn to ACE have to work long hours at To begin an undertaking and then asks them to do it gram's success. Notre Dame is because "I like the service their jobs. "I pity them such as ACE. a great deal of and name it whatever they helping set up similar pro­aspect of ACE. They really because they complain that initial monetary support is choose. Walking around, mak­grams at other universities take pains in putting you in they aren't getting anything needed. ing sure the students followed around the country, so that schools that need you." out of their work. I'm not ACE was one of 11 national his instructions, he also reads they can serve parochial Although it was a shock for doing it for the money because demonstration programs the the names of the folders. schools in their states. Rigg to come to a small, pre­I don't get paid much, but I do Corporation for National When he gets to one, he real­Programs at the University dominantly black high school it because everyday I teach I Service helped fund. National izes that, at 22-years old, he of Portland, Dayton University after having attended a large, learn something or hear some­Service was created in 1993 as has already forgotten how and Seton Hall have already suburban, mostly white high thing funny or get something a result of' former President immature 17-and 18-year­been established and pro­school and Notre Dame, he out of it and I don't think too Bill Clinton's 1992 campaign olds can be. He barely sup­grams at Loyola-Marymont "has not regretted it once." many people can say that." promise to design a program presses a smile when he sees and the Christian Brothers in In addition to the culture ACE was founded in 1994 by that combines service and the name: pisscorn. Memphis are being set up. shock, being a teacher is a lot Father Timothy Scully and education. 
Incidents similar to this one "We talk about what our of work. happen nearly every day to program does and its mission Rigg leaves the house each of the more than 150 stu­and focus. We share with where he lives with five other dents who are part of the these schools the lessons ACE teachers at 6 a.m. and Alliance for Catholic we've learned,'' said Stashis. does not return until 7 or 8 Education (AGE) program. "We provide them with fund­p.m. He teaches five differ­
''There are so many funny ing to help feed their effort ent classes every day which things that happen," said Rigg. and advise them on how their means he must write five "They surprise me with how program is developing." separate lesson plans. He is much they know and how Stashis believes that stu­also directing the school's much they don't know." dents are drawn to the pro­spring musical, "Joseph and 
This year, Notre Dame gram because they are inter-the Amazing Technicolor 
ND grad becomes flight director 
James Wetherbee, a 1974 alumnus, is a veteran 
Special to The Observer 

of four space shuttle missions and 955 hours in space both as a pilot and mission commander. 
The Mission Operations Directorate at NASA's He is scheduled to command a shuttle missionJohnson Space Center has appointed 10 new 

this year.
flight directors, including Notre Dame alumna U.S. Air Force Lt. Col. Kevin Ford, a 1982Annette Hasbrook. 

graduate with a bachelor's degree in aerospaceHasbrook is a 1985 graduate with a bache­and mechanical engineering, and Air Forcelor's degree in aerospace and mechanical engi-. 
Major Michael Good, who earned bachelor's and neering. A resident of Clear Lake City, Texas, 
master's
she has worked at the Johnson Space Center 
degrees in
since 1987 with the payloads team, most recent­
aerospace
ly as the group leader serving as a flight con­
and mechani­
troller in the Space Shuttle Flight Control Room. 
cal engineer­
A flight director manages the flight controllers 
ing from
who work in the Mission Control Center and has 
Notre Dame
overall responsibility for the successful manage­
in 1984 and 
ment and execution of space flights. Directors 
1986 respec­
also lead and orchestrate planning and integra­
tively, were
tion activities with flight controllers, payload 
named to the
customers, International Space Station partners 
astronaut
and others. 
corps last
Three other Notre Dame graduates are mem­
year.
bers of NASA's astronaut corps. U.S. Navy Capt. 

y_Pfu:. 
On Saturday., 
January lJt\ 

El Salvador 
was devastatea bya massive 
earthquake 
of magnitude 

7.6. It has 
left aeath, 
destruction, and misery. 
Asof 
January lO'h 


there are at 
least 650 

aeaa, 
thousanas 
iruurea, ana 
tens of 
thousanas 


homeless. 

The Center for Social Concerns invites everyone to make donations to CISPES (Committee in Solidarity with the People of El 
rlU
,1Ntllt l'OI

Salvador). Donation in the form of cash or check (made payable to 
SOCIAL.

the CSC and specifying earthquake relief) can be brought to the 
CONCERNS
front desk of the CSC. 





tlltli
CENT"ER FOR 

Appalachia Seminar 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

/ ~'¥~...~ ·---h -:-,; 
,., -""1,:..,..~.. ""lX-t.. .. --~ 
,, "···· , '¼, -;:--. 
. . ~ 
-

'~ -.~ 

THE SEMINAR 

• 
Service-learning through various sites in Appalachia, March 10-17, 2001 

• 
One credit Theology course 

• 
Involves orientation & follow-up classes 

• 
Presents opportunity to work, laugh, & learn with others 

• 
Past participants ofAppalachia Seminar are encouraged to apply as Site Coordinators 


The Appalachia Seminar during Fall and Spring break presents a unique service­learning opportunity. Students travel to a variety of sites in Appalachia which focus on issues concerning rural poverty, the environment, women, children, and housing. Through hands on work and person-to-person contacts, students experi­ence the cultural richness of the area and begin to understand and analyze the social forces that influence the Appalachian people. 

APPLICATIONS 

Available at the Center for Social Concerns Due date: Wednesday, January 31, 2001 $40 deposit with application (non-refµndable if accepted) OR apply on-line! visit htt,P://129.74.134.217/AP/default.htm 

FURTHER INFORMATION 
Steve Recupero, Student Task Force Chairperson, 634-1217 


Kl AIKIDO 

MONDAY!• 7:30-9:30PM BEGINNING FEBRUARY 12 
•• Ki-Aikido is a Japanese Martial Art •• • which applies mind and body coordination • : to self-defense techniques : 

Demonstration -January 29 • 7:30 pm Rockne 219 

REGlfTER IN ADVANCE AT RECIPORTf CLAff FEE If $19 FOR MORE INFORMATION, CALL R--~AT 1-6100 
Friday, January 26, 2001 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 

Arts center undergoes new design 
• Coleman-Morse center nears completion 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER 
NcwsWrirer 
Construclion of lhe Marie DeBartolo Performing Arts Center will be delayed for sev­cnd months to redesign some areas of the 125,000 square feel project. 
According to Jim Lyphout. vice president of business operations. specific reasons for the delay included design mod­ifications to the lobby and the exterior of the building. 
"We hope to start construc­tion in April or May and con­struction should last about 27 months, as it's a very large and complex building," said Services for Student Athletes Lyphout. will all be moved from their 
When the building opens in current locations to the late 2003, it will complete the Coleman-Morse center during OeBartolo quad, and contain a spring break. 900-seat concert hall, a movie According to Lyphoul, reno­
theater,  an  vation of the  
organ and chorale hall and a studio theater.  "We hope to start construction in April or May and [it} should last  Hayes Healey Center and Hurley Hall, which will  
T  h  e  about 27 months, as it's  house  the  
Coleman­Morse center on South  a very large and complex building ...  Math and lnternalional Relations  
Quad  is  department, 
scheduled to open after spring break.  Jim Lyphout vice president  and construc­tion of the Philosophy. 
The  First  business operations  and Theology 
Year  of  faculty hall is  
Studies, First  also on sched­ 

Year Writing Center, Learning ule and both buildings should Resource Center, Campus be ready for use during the Ministry and Academic Fall 2001 semester. 
the department of film, television, and theatre 
presents 



notre 





festival 2001 
advanced tickets on sale at Lafortune {cvbite tbe, last) 
friday • saturday • monday 
snite museum of art $4.00 admission 

Mission Statement faces changes again 
. Commission's second revision awaits approval 
By KATIE McVOY News Writer 
A change to Saint ~ary's Mission Statement awaits approval by College officials, leaders of the revision effort said recently. 
If approved, the revision will represent the second change to the statement this academic year. 
Last year philosophy profes­sor Patricia Sayre and four other faculty members formed 
an ad hoc faculty com­mittee that was created to work with t h e Commission for Mission, which was created to discuss the goals of the College. The 
committees have created yet another draft of a mission statement for the College. 
"We were directed to work together on a statement," head of mission Sister Rose Anne Schultz said. 
"It involvei:i very, very mod­estly reworking the mission statement," philosophy profes­sor and committee member Patti Sayre added. 
Schultz confirmed that there is now another draft of the statement that is ready to be presented to members of the Saint Mary's community. 
Jeff Breese, head of the fac­ulty assembly, said the faculty will view the new draft of the statement on February 14. 
With few adjustments, the new draft reads similarly to the 

... just come to 1st Source. As the area's leading financial institution, we can offer you unparalleled convenience, competitive products and pricirg, and a level of service second to none. 
Convenience • With over 40 banking centers and ATMs in the area, 1st Source is everywhere you might be. Visit our full-service office in the Haggar College Center at Saint Ma~y's, complete with ATM, or use our ATM in the Hesburgh Library. 
Internet Banking • With 1st Source Bank's on-line banking service for students, BankOnCampus.com, you can check your balances, transfer money between accounts, and even pay bills. 
Electronic Funds Transfer • Expecting money from home? 1st Source can make getting money from home fast and easy by arranging to have the money transfered to you electronically. 
When it comes to banking, 1st Source has you covered. So save your prayers for a real crisis -like finals! 
Saint Mary's Banking Center• 235-2019 
M-Th • 10:00 to 4:00 F • 10;00 to 4:30 
original Saint Mary's mission statement that has appeared in the College's literature for years. 
"Although [the changes] arc modest as far as words go, they fix the problem," Sayre said. 
The problem, according to Sayre, was exclusion. 
"There are three different groups named in the new statement, faculty, staff and students," Sayre said. "Staff were not mentioned by name in the original statement; now they arc." 
Another goal of the mission committee was to shorten the page-length statement. The new draft presents the first paragraph of the old statement 
as the 
Mission
"It involved very, very 
Statement,
modestly reworking the 
and the para­
Mission Statement. " graphs that follow explain the
Patti Sayre 
College's phi­

committee member 
losophy and 
purpose. Although 
the new draft will be presented, it still needs approval. 
"No decision has been made regarding the mission state­ment," Schultz said. "There is still need of consideration of this issue by faculty and other appropriate bodies before the president submits it to the Board of Trustees for approval." 
Depending on the faculty's response, the statement will go before students and staff for discussion. 
"There's no point in putting another draft before the stu­dents before the faculty has voiced its approval," Sayre said. 
Schultz would not discuss the specific path the draft would follow before coming before the Board of Trustees. 
"We have a process about how to go about this," she said. "It's important to be respectful of the proper chan­nels. I do think that it is very likely that if this draft goes through, it would be accept­able." 
Although the faculty will not discuss the new draft until February, the feeling is that the faculty will approve it. 
"I think that very likely ... [the draft] would be accept­able," Sayre said. 
Despite previous problems between the faculty and the mission committee, both groups are concerned about the new mission and the stu­dents. 
"Our focus is a sense of' unity, of the community com­ing together," Schultz said. "The focus of everyone's life here is the studenl'i." 
"There is deep concern." Sayre added. 
Schultz said that more information on the process of approval will be released next week. 
In September the faculty rejected the draft proposed to them and threw their support to the original Saint Mary's Mission Statement. 
"The faculty was saying that they did not support the new Mission Statement and the reasons [to change the mis­sion statement] that were stated are not sufficient," Sayre said. 


Friday, January 26, 2001 
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
FBI: Texas seven alluded 

police without accomplices 
"Like all Texans, I want these violent
Anociated Preu 
fugitives returned to Texas as soon as possible to stand trial for theirCRIPPLE CREEK. Colo. 
crimes," he said.
The Texas prison fugitives apparent­While the men had stayed togetherly were not helped as they fled 800 since the escape, there were signs they miles to Colorado, bought, stole or 

were preparing to go their separatetraded at least three vehicles and 
ways.

eluded a huge manhunt for six weeks, 
Authorities said they group had
authorities said Thursday. 
apparently been trying to make false"We're not aware that they had help IDs. Rivas said he had taken a job as a
from anyone," FBI agent Mark 
butcher in Denver, and another con­Mershon said. "No other arrests are vict, Randy Halprin, told the Rockyplanned." 
Mountain News he was planning tollowever, authori­take a bus to Seattle
ties from both states 
this week. 

pledged to keep dig­"Like all Texans, I want 
But instead. four of
ging through hun­these violent fugitives 
the inmates were
dreds of tips received 
returned to Texas as soon arrested Monday in
since the Dec. 13 
prison break. as possible to stand trial nearby Woodland 
Park and a fifth com­
Mershon said authori­for their crimes. " 
mitted suicide. Thelies know of no 
two others were
Colorado relatives of 
Rick Perry arrested Wednesday
any of the seven men. 
in Colorado Springs. 
Defense attorneys Texas governor Authorities said

declined comment many reports about
Thursday. 
the men were simply rumors.
Meanwhile, George Rivas, the sus­They dismissed claims that two ofpected ringleader of the group, agreed the convicts arrested Monday learnedto swift extradition to Texas. Fellow that authorities were closing in either

convict Michael Rodriguez asked a 
by intercepting a radio transmission orjudge for time to review his options receiving a cellphone call. 
before deciding whether to fight extra­
Teller County Sheriff Frank Fehn
dition. 
also said Rivas had gunshot wounds to
The six surviving convicts are 

the right abdomen and buttocks thatexpected to face murder charges and a had been stitched up with dental floss.
possible death sentence for the 
He said Halprin had a gunshot woundChristmas Eve slaying of a Dallas-area to the foot that the convict said hap­policeman, Aubrey Hawkins. Rivas told pened a couple of weeks ago "during
the Fort Worth Star-Telegram he is 
horseplay with weapons." 
prepared to accept the death penalty. 
More court appearances were sched­Texas Gov. Rick Perry has signed uled for Friday and Monday. 
and sent the extradition requests. 


Inaugural trespasser: I a01 invisible, undetectable 
Weaver would try to reach Bush,

Associated Press 
because Weaver said as much during an interview with Secret Service agents 
WASHINGTON 
after the Clinton incident. 

The man who slipped past 
Security at this year's inaugurationInauguration Day security to casually 

was tighter than usual because of

shake President Bush's hand says he planned protests. Capitol Police said the was delivering a message from God and trespasser was unarmed and had beenwas granted a mystical ability to pass taken through two metal detectors. 
undetected. 
"It is something we take seriously, aRichard Weaver, a self-proclaimed man able to get to the president seem­Christian minister, spoke with The ingly at will," Lt. Dan Nichols. aAssociated Press by telephone from his spokesman for the Capitol Police. saidhome in Sacramento, Calif. Images of Thursday. "We will review everything

him shaking Bush's hand on 
about how the incident occurred." 

Inauguration Day matched those taken The White House declined to com­by the AP at his home Thursday. 
ment on the matter Thursday, but

U.S. Capitol Police and Secret Service spokesman Ari Fleischer said earlieragents would not confirm that Weaver the incident posed no risk to Bush.
was the man who shook Bush's hand. 
"The president was never in any type Capitol Police have said that the tres­of risk at all. And we have full faith and 

passer at Bush's inauguration also 
confidence in the Secret Service: They 

pulled a similar stunt at President 
do their job, they do it professionally.

Clinton's second inauguration in 1997. 
they do it well," Fleischer said. 

"I don't have to push through and I This year's Inauguration Day incident never have to do any 'Mission was documented on a videotape andlmpossible'-type stunts," said Weaver, Weaver's account of the handshakewho lamented that some Secret Service matched that given by a White Houseagents might get in trouble because of spokesman. Wearing a dark wool over­his security breaches. 
coat. Weaver smiled his way toward"I see it as a miracle," Weaver said. "I Bush, shook his hand and slipped him abelieve God makes me invisible to the coin and a piece of blue paper. 

security, undetectable." 
The paper bore the message, "KeepWeaver tells of having met several Christ first and he will grant you anoth­past presidents, sometimes waltzing er miracle victory in four years." 

past security, other times seeking them Weaver said the coin was a gift ofout in public churches or museums. . 
Bush's father, former President Bush.

His inaugural escapade on Jan. 20 He claims to have met both Bushes in was the equivalent of a "called shot" ­1981 at a museum.
Secret Service agents were on the look­Weaver said he passed by two levelsout for Weaver this year. even going so of security and sat inside the Capitolfar as to show security officers a tape of with the National Medal of Honor win­him shaking Clinton's hand four years ners during Bush's inaugural speech. 
ago. They were also reasonably sure 
•  w-7\m', Li(r ... ~&lie Rev. Steve Newton, C.S.C., President and Chief Executive Officer of The Wilson Foundation, has announed that all members of the Notre Dame and St. Mary's College Community are invited to participate in the design of a new award, named in honor of Notre Dame's Emeritus Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. The award -The Hesburgh Award for International Human Development -will be given annually by the Wilson Foundation to honor lives of commitment to international human development in terms ofnew economic, social and political structures in the third world. The first recipient will be Fr. Hesburgh himself. He will be presented the award at a May 7 ceremony in New York City. It is expected that each design submitted will incorporate the logo of the foundation, some depiction of inemational development and these thoughts of Fr. Hesburgh, from his Book God, Countty, Notre Dame: "One ofthe greatest heresies is that in our modern world one person cannot make a difference. I do not believe that for one moment. I know it is factually inaccurate. One person or group ofpersons can make an enourmous difference in our lives and our way ofliving. History is replete with heroic people who realized that they could make a difference and d;d -despite the conventional wisdon ofthe day. " The Wilson Foundation exists to assure the delivery of quality treatment for addictive illnesses to persons who are denied access to such, espe­cially in areas served by the Congregation of Holy Cross. Current foundation focus is on the countries of East Africa. Locally, Life Treatment Centers is the key partner ofthe foundation's efforts. Design Competition The Wilson Foundation 1402 S. Michigan St. South Bend, IN 46613 219-233-5433 The decision ofThe Wilson Foundation judges is final. Design samples will be returned ifrequested.  ¦  
¦  ¦  





i-----­
1 
I 
I 
I 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 10 BSERVER Friday, January 26 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dwie, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, None 0-.un,. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Mike Connolly 
MANAGING f.DITOll BUSINESS MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Tim Lane 
NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Mattingly VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey SPORTS EDITOR, Kc,ny Smith SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MAR.¥'s EDITOll: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR, Elizabeth Lang 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN Mi\NAGER: Chris Avila SYSI'EMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Bob Woods GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INP0..............631-7471 
FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDIT0R/Assr. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OmCE ........................................ 631-5313 
NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews.l@nd.edu VIEWP0INT.................................................631-5303 
observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543. observer.spores. J@nd.edu 
SCENE......................................................... 63I-4540 
observer .scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MAIIY"s.............................................63I-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO............................... : ................... .....631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://obm.,,er.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news. sports, fearures and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associa(ed Pr=. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-co-the 
movies/ mu.sic for 
minute forecasts 
weekly srudenc reviews 
advertise for ,policies 
online features for spe­
and rates of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
about The Observer
archives to search for 
articles published after 
to meet che editors and 
staff
August 1999 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudents ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advercisements, is not governed by policies of me administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reporred as accurately and objectivdy as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and column.s present the views ofthe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available co all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include conracr information. 
Que,tion, r,garding ObtmJf'T policies ,ho,Jd be direet­,dto Ediwr in ChefMike Cannoliy. 



Open speaker policy only option for SMC 
The free and unrestricted exchange of examine their belief systems. Saint ideas is crucial to establishing an edu­Mary's should be the perfect venue for cational environment that cherishes a discussion of women's sexuality academic freedom. The process of regardless of its Catholic orientation. In developing mature response to claims that the viewpoints on social play goes against Catholic 
OJhe
issues requires the oserver teaching, however, the critical examination administration pulled the of students' beliefs. plug on the production. 
An educational sys­Restricting a production

Editorial 
tem that does not. challenge students to question their moral. intellectual and spiritual knowl­edge is not educating students in the true sense of academic freedom. 
In its current Mission Statement. Saint Mary's claims to cherish academic free­dom. stating, "The College creates an open forum in which students freely and critically study the rich heritage of the Catholic tradition, raising the ques­tions necessary to develop a mature religious life." 
The recent decision to cancel "The Vagina Monologues," a critically­acclaimed play discussing women's sex­uality, is a blatant act of censorship that does not allow students to critically 
such as 'The Vagina Monologues" that challenges traditional perspectives of women's sexuality will not make these perspectives go away. It will only prevent students from explor­ing them. 
By restricting students' ability to chal­lenge and explore traditional ideas, Saint Mary's is cheapening its students' education -and sending the message that it does not truly believe students should be challenging any ideas at all. 
The administration's decision to cave to political pressure and cancel "The Vagina Monologues" causes concern that this action will be repeated in other College venues. If the College does encourage students to "raise the ques­tions necessary to develop a mature religious life," it would be wise to adopt an open-speaker policy on campus to ensure productions like "The Vagina Monologues" will not be censored. The question is not if "The Vagina Monologues" goes against Catholic teaching, but if the administration is taking the necessary efforts to allow students to pursue the critical question­ing essential to academic freedom. 
President Marilou Eldred has been a vocal proponent of the role women's colleges can play in addressing women's issues since taking the presi­dency four years ago. By attending last year's Monologues, Eldred confirmed this commitment to the community. Eldred's move to cancel the "Monologues" has made it clear that her commitment is to the alumnae and Parents Council, who opposed the play's return to campus. not the women on campus. 
It is time for Eldred to reaffirm her commitment to the students on campus and trust them to maturely evaluate dif­fering points of view. 
Marketing Wilson the volleyball 
IOWA CITY, Iowa 
It's the new millennium, and being an American is easier than ever. Even the English language has adapted to our more convenient lifestyles. We can take a shot and take a hit. We can channel surf and surf the 
Tom

Web. 
All of this entails Tortorich little or no effort on our part. We live in 
The Daily

a world in which 
Iowan

it's possible to surf from a La-Z-Boy 
recliner. 
A few weeks ago, surfing the tube, I learned that Wilson Sporting Goods Inc. is planning on marketing the volleyball named Wilson from the blockbuster. Cast Away. 
For those of you who haven't seen the flick. when Tom Hanks' character is stranded on a desert island, one of his only reminders of civilization is a volley­ball that has washed ashore with him. He draws a face on it, names it Wilson, and begins talking to it. 
IfI were stranded on a desert island, I can see how a need to talk to a volley­ball would develop. 
Why market this product to America? Because it will sell. 
Why will it sell? Because Americans are a paradoxical people. We willingly shut ourselves off from the rest of the world -reclining and surfing by our­selves -until we feel the private pang ofloneliness. One ofthe first solutions of the 21st Century for combating loneli­ness is a volleyball. The desire for com­panionship, of course, is as old as any­thing released from Pandora's Box, but never before has it been so convenient 
to make a friend. The first solution was sibly to believe that Wilson is making a human interaction. But who wants to volleyball in light of this? Easy solution: mingle when you can have your very Surf the 'Net. own volleyball? None of this involved ever talking to a 
The idea isn't a factory-fresh one. real person. Never did l utter the ques­either. It's a millennial twist on the ____tion. "Is Wilson making a volleyball Chia Pet. But, heck, you have to named Wilson?" and still I water those. It'll be a cold have my answer -or at day in Hades when engi-least a partial one. The 
neers finally invent an insta-buddy who requires less mainte­nance than the Wilson volleyball. 
The source of my information on the Wilson volleyball offers more proof that it's easier than ever to be an American. WGN News, where I heard this tiddy. is broadcast by the Tribune Co., which brings you the Chicago Tribune. Because reading is too much work, the CEOs 
decided to make the same "' ,JC word to the guys at the information available to us f' 1, / Wilson Corp.: I guarantee a over a medium we can surf. ~-··· Wilson volleyball named 
company is currently considering the poten­tial marketability of such a product. What's there to 
consider? You're talking about a culture that 
~~-~ turned to Fast Mac because

=----.... Easy Mac wasn't 
fast enough and r---~ Macaroni and ,___.....-Cheese wasn't easy enough. Even the polysyllabic name Macaroni and (t µ {. Cheese was abbrevi­, } ated. Let me just say one 
Or should I say misinformation. It was during the same half-hour news broadcast that the reporters announced the Dow Jones market had dropped an odd number of points that day. Fifteen minutes later, the anchor announced that, thanks to a loyal viewer, the show's producers had realized an error. In fact, the Dow Jones had risen that day. . 
That's a glaring error. How am I pos-
Wilson will sell in this country of ease and convenience. Americans will even vote Wilson for president. 
This column first appeared in the University ofIowa newspaper. The Daily Iowan, on Jan. 25. 2001 and is reprinted here courtesy of U-WIRE. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces• sarily those ofThe Observer. 

DILBERT 
50... EACH PHOTON 15 A. 
UNl\JER.~E. ... THEN MASS 
IS J'UST A. PROBABILITY CLU~:iTER.1 

WOW J I THtNK MY TINY SKULL I5 50 
FULL IT'S GOING TO 
EXPLODE.
\­
SCOTT ADAMS 
1-\IWE '<OU BH.N l"/\L\<.ING, TO OUR. GARC>AGE MAN 
fl.GAIN? 
,-. 
...'!: 

;ii 7/ L---~..w.w;;.~:...;;..;;w~~~u 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"First you take a drink, then the drink takes a drink, then the drink takes you. " 
F. Scott Fitzgerald author 

~---------­
O
THE 

Friday, January 26, 2001 BSERVER page 11 
----------------·---­






VIEWPOINT 
Finding out about alcohol abroad 
To American students, including many of those at Notre Dame, alco­hol represents the ultimate in "forbidden fruits." It costs relatively lit­tle. Under-aged students can easily obtain it. The consequences of il'l illegal consumption arc avoidable. Administrators generally turn a blind eyo towards its prnsence at football games, in t.he dormitories 
and within fraternities. 
Unfortunately, the combination of easy alcoholic bcveragn availability and the student abuse of the "forbidden fruit" rcsull.5 in numerous tragedies each year. In the case of such tragedies, like a death from alcohol poisoning, the responsibility then falls on the University administration to face the grieving family and friends and their accusa­tions of negligence or inadequate supervision or control. 
Yet the backlash upon the University comes unfairly. The blame for the misuse of alcohol by undergraduates lies not within the degree of enforcement rules of the University but rather deeper within American culture. 
/\s a result of the drinking age, American youth do not learn to view moderate alcoholic beverage consumption as a part of life, especially when the 

Joanna Mikulski 
Innsbruck Stimme 

adults in their life do not set a good example. They do not appreciate alcoholic beverages as one aspect of the general culture of food and drink. 
Instead, they regard it as a secondary dessert after meals. Its con­sumption becomes in their eyes a leisure activity-a forbidden plea­sure. 
A year abroad in Europe presents a unique opportunity for students to adopt a healthy attitude towards alcohol. In Austria, the university students do not consider alcohol a substance to be consumed in large quantities in a small amount of time. Rather, they spend hours in cafcs and bars talking over a single beer or glass of wine. 
Al my host family's house, my host father speaks of drinking partic­ular wines with various meals and dishes according to the combina­tion of navors desired. 
Although a person must be 18 years old to order a drink at a pub or bar, no true drinking age exists in Austria. A child can purchase vodka at the supermarket. Yet, despite the open availability of alcohol, Austria as yet docs not have a problem with alcoholism in the pre­schools. 
Instead, the lack of restriction on alcohol allows the prevailing mod­erate attitude towards alcohol consumption held by most of the stu­dents that I have encountered. And indeed, many Innsbruckers will attest that after five months here, they now look at their beer more maturely and moderately. 
Unfortunately, the combination of the American college student mentality towards alcoholic drinks and the bottles of hard liquor lined for purchase by all on the supermarket shelves can result in misuse by students similar to the misuse on Notre Dame's campus. 
Recent incidents involving the over-consumption of alcohol by stu­dents in Innsbruck and in other study-abroad programs has brought into question the University policy concerning alcohol. 
The University must find a way to govern the use of alcohol by the students in order to protect both the students and the University. The rules ofDul..ac can no longer apply in Europe. 
If the University were to prohibit the American students to drink in accordance with the United States law. it would constrain the stu­dents' ability to assimilate into the European culture, the ultimate goal ol' the study-abroad programs. 
Mistakes ·by students in the consumption of alcohol cannot be 
addressed merely as violations of law, since no laws are violated by 
mere consumption. Instead, the University must regard the mistakes 
made by the studenl.5 as simply mistakes, unless the infraction 
brought consequences so great that the well-being of the other stu­
dents or the surrounding community lay directly in the path of danger. 
Cases of true alcoholism cannot be ignored. However, as University 
ol1icials cannot personally watch the studenL-. abroad and have even 
less control over their actions in Europe than in the United States, the 
University must rely upon the foresight and the maturity of the other 
students, who hold the responsibility to bring any problem of alco­
holism to tho attention of those who can be of a.'isistance, such as a 
professor or the director of the study-abroad program. 
Ideally, the students will step off the plane in December or June with 
a new perspective on campus parties and with a new outlook on 
American drinking culture as a whole. The issues concerning alcohol 
within the American culture and on college campuses do not have an 
easy solution. Universities will always have to deal with problems of 
drinking among undergraduates until the moderate consumption of 
alcohol becomes a part of the general American culture. 
Fortunately, for some students, who truly live within and experience 
the European culture. a semester or a year abroad results in their 
recognition of the proper role of alcohol consumption. 
Joanna Mikulski is a sophomore arts and letters major and is cur­rently studying abroad in Innsbruck. Austria. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Continuing the dialogue about 'The Vagina Monologues' 
Censorship is sometimes the answer 
Most of the students reading this will be famil-zones as common to their mutual experience as iar with a pop song played regularly on the radio their hands, feet, arms, and faces; in fact, the only few short months ago: "You and me, baby, divorce of sexuality and the sacred conveys a we ain't nothin' but mammals/Doin' what they basic attitude of nihilism about their bodies. To do on the Discovery Channel." be a sexually functioning human being means 
Let's think about what those mammals -'l~ no more to them than to be a sexually do: those females, of course, also have :#A ~ , functioning golden retriever. ~aginas. Mo_st often, male~ see that • .,4 Thi~ is !~e fruit of "the sexual lib­lemales are m heat, sometimes by . ~~ "' erat1on m which women arc "free the females· special attention to '/ ~ .._'fl/ to have sex like men do," but 
~ 
111

their hindquarters. Noticing this, ~ ((j/L. instead tend to serve his more the males tend to use various 'l 'i ,,.-, ~\~ selfish desires. means ofseduc~on to grab the r~ ~,._ ~...~..i T?ere's no question that the females, often v10lently. and r~ .,,.......__.._...., 1 society surrounding us has lost 
proceed to have their good m~ pleasure -usually at the ~~ expense of the females, who ~ rarely derive much satisfaction from the encounter and are 
stuck with raising the offspring 
t1

from such experiences, often • I, alone. ~ A young man walks into a bar one night. Here he finds many 
f.\ 

deligh1s, scantily clad women ranked high among them. Judging by their 
movements and preening. he proceeds to choose one and dance vigorously with her, pres­suring her to accept the drinks he offers her. Later on, mildly inebriated, they have sex, a meaningless, brief encounter that neither is like­ly to remember for more than a couple of weeks. He, of course, was not thinking much of her sat­isfaction, and doesn't even know that he has conceived a child with her. She is stuck raising the child, alone. 
There's a disturbing parallel here. The two people in the second case have lost any account of meaning in sexual relations, their erogenous 
~ this sense of the sacred about sexuality and relationships: " The massive popularity of pro­; grams such as "Temptation Island" and other forms of pornography fill television and the walls of many men's dorm rooms. There also can be no question that treating the discussion of vagi­nas and other aspects of human sexu­ality as commonplace and appropriate to 
the general public sphere, especially in crass and blunt ways, does not aid in reestablishing what has been so cruelly lost to us. 
There was a day and a society where sex and everything surrounding it meant dignity and commitment, when sex meant more than an exchange of orgasms. 
Let us bring it anew from the ashes. 
Nathaniel Hannan junior Dillon Hall January 25, 2001 


Inside column missed the point 
Inside columnist Nate Phillips enraged numer­ous women on campus yesterday by misunder­standing "The Vagina Monologues." Although Phillips admits that he has not read or seen the play. his ignorance did not seem to stop him from condemning it. 
Claiming that "The V;igina Monologues" only add to the objectification of women and ulti­mately undermines the feminist movement, Phillips asks, "how is allowing women to talk about their bodies, their vaginas and sex in any way an uplifting and productive avenue for modern-day feminists to pursue?" 
However, Phillips fails to realize that, implicit within his question is already the presupposi­tion that women who discuss their sexuality are somehow vulgar, that the female body and sex­uality can never be discussed in a way that glo­rifies women or the human species and that sex can be a holy, spiritual, beautiful, life-giving, incredibly liberating experience, one that cap­tures and expresses the depths of human inti­macy and love. Perhaps Phillips should read a few papal encyclicals if he wants to know how the human body cannot only be discussed with reverence but also celebrated and glorified. 
One might ask, then, do "The Vagina Monologues" really accomplish a theology of the body that reflects the dignity of the human per­son, as envisioned by the Pope, or could they be seen as promoting promiscuity and concupis­cence guised as female liberation? Although this is an important question. it dodges the cen­tral issue at stake. The central issue is not the moral permissibility of sex under certain cir­cumstances; the key issue is how women are to be treated as sexual beings, and that is what "The Vagina Monologues" explores. 
In the process. the play seeks to dispel I.he double standard that praises men for their promiscuity and condemns women for theirs. In actuality, either both behaviors need to be condemned equally or women should be freed from the social stigma that accompanies such behavior. 
Phillips makes the mistake of only viewing women on one plane -the physical. The vagina of "The Vagina Monologues" is not just the physical body part but also the locus of the female identity that reaches far beyond the physical, into the emotional and spiritual. The target audience for "The Vagina Monologues" is men like Phillips, who fail to see the deeper meaning that lies in the word "vagina." 
For this very reason, it is a tragedy that the play will not be performed at Saint Mary's or Notre Dame. Perhaps if Phillips had taken the time to see one of the plays, then maybe he would have realized that the purpose of "The Vagina Monologues" is to stop violence against women, to unite people against f'emale genitalia mutilation in Africa, to help young poor women in Bangladesh who suffer from acid burns after rejecting marriage proposals, to stop families from killing their daughters who were raped in Pakistan and to eradicate incest and rape in the United States. And, yes, even sexual abuses at Notre Dame. 
Phillips is right. the play's purpose is to shock -but to shock and educate, and through edu­cation, change the future so that men and women together can learn to understand, respect and love their bodies and each other, interacting and enjoying one another as God intended. 
Maureen Rodgers senior Welsh Family Hall January 24, 200 I 








cene 
OTHE 

page 12 BSERVER Friday, January 26, 2001 

DENT 
ILM 

FESTIVAL 
2001 Notre Dame Stud entertainment for 
The ever-popular and often controversial studen students this weekend. Scene got a sneak prev 
By CHRIS SIKORSKI 
Scene Writcr 

One of the most popular and most talked about events of the year returns to the Snite Museum of Art on Friday, Saturday and Monday as the 12th annual Notre Dame Student Film Fesiival rolls into action. 
The event has more than tripled in popu­larity since its humble beginnings in 1989, according to Film, Television and Theatre professor Ted Mandell. 
"Back when we started, we'd get crowds of 50 or 60 people," he said. "Now, the shows sell out. It's really a reward for the filmmak­ers' effort, because a film is a labor of love, with the shooting, casting, editing and re­editing that goes into it." · The production is also a great educational opportunity for the students. The festival gives the students the chance to gauge a large audience's reaction to their work. 
"You could have 200-300 people laughing at one joke or scene, and have dead silence at another," Mandell said. "You never get to see what really works until a crowd watches it." 
While close to 150 films are produced every year in the department's four produc­tion classes (taught by professor/head of production Jill Godmilow, assistant profes­sional specialist Bill Donaruma and Mandell), time constraints play a large role in deciding which ones appear in the festi­val. 
"There were many worthy films that didn't make it [into the festival] because of time constraints," Mandell said. 
This weekend's show offers more light­hearted fare than in previous years. While last year's festival will probably be remem­bered for its heavily sociopolitical and provocative works, many of this year's films are documentaries or comedies. The pro­gram is not all humorous, though. The edgi­er, dramatic films offer moments of poignan­cy and reflection (and even confusion) which offset some of the more "easily digestible" works. Also, some of the films contain mature adult content. The end result is a fresh and entertaining variety of student achievement that is definitely worth seeing. 
This popular event has found its niche in the last weekend in January, consistently sell­ing out the past several years. With showings at 7:30 p.m. and 9:45 p.m. each night, the festival is expected to sell out again. Tickets are $4 and available in LaFortune. 
Blind Date #42 

Directed by Rick Silvestrini. a senior from 
Rockton, Ill., and Charlie Holden-Corbett, a 
senior from Traverse City, Mich., this comedy 
occurs during a blind date between two 20­
somethings and is filmed entirely within an 
apartment. 

The camera often holds the same shot for 
extended periods of time, drawing attention 
to the two actors and their dialogue. This 
establishes a voyeuristic feel of an observer, 
rather than an omnipresent view that several 
camera angles would establish. Also, it forces 
the viewer to focus on the dialogue of the 
actors, especially the fumbling, awkward 
attempts at conversation that reinforce how a 
blind date can go terribly wrong (or right). 
The viewer actually feels the discomfort of the subjects on the screen. A bizarre yet entertaining twist makes this particular engagement very different from what anyone could ever anticipate. 



"er, Year.. 


·t's the fJloSt taf ked abou 


notre 
festi 
This weekend's showing of the 12th annual student by Notre Dame students. Usually attracting a sell-out tive and humorous entertainment. Tickets sell fast, s 
Two in the Smoker 

Sean Daily, a 2000 graduate from Los Gatos, Calif. directs this humorous slice-of-life docu­mentary about the fishermen of the St. Joseph River in South Bend. Shot in high-end digital video, this technically skillful work features such testimonies as discourses from die-hard fisher­men and a game warden's explanation of how to catch fishing violators while going undercover. 
The film contains a lot of subtle humor, often due to the efforts of alum Andrew McDonnell, the "interviewer" of this documentary. The real treats, though, are the regular fishermen of the 
·river who reveal their obsession with the sport 
and their views on life (which are often tied up 
in the same themes). 

Subjects range from tho sex of a fish, tying a fly and bleeding flsh, to "expert opinions" from the fishermen concerning the authenticity of the fishing scenes in "A River Runs Through It." This film will get a few chuckles from any viewer. 
Six Degrees of Chicks, Dicks, Dope, and Old 

Folk 

This film, directed by Dan Nowak, a junior from Des Plaines, Ill., is reminiscent of Kevin Smith's independent movie Clerks, with raunchy dialogue and explicit sexual bantering between friends. 
It concerns a single story (which nobody is really positive actually happened) told by four different people in four different conversations. The film rotates among four different private discussions (girls drinking coffee, adolescent 





cene 
O
THE Friday, January 26, 2001 BSERVER page 13 
nt Film Festival offers 
nd by the students 
film festival will showcase the talent ofND f11' w for several ofthe films headlining this event. 
e\1ellt oil caJJJ pus.. ,.... 
get them soon at the Lafortune box office. 
males at a gas station, the middle of a drug deal and nai"ve mothers talking over a cup of teu ... hence the title). 
The verbal connections and scene editing are clever, with one particular bit that will be sure to get a reaction from the entire audience. Also, (Wery character seems to be talking about another character in a different scene, which unifies the whole story. Watching how some scenes play off others provides another high point of the film. 

Time and Temperature 
This docu,mmtary, directed by Beth Leliaert, a senior from Osceola, Ind., and Andy Gregar, a snnior f'rom South Bend, tells about tlrn feud bctwmm an insurance agent and the local gov­crnmPnt in the "sleepy br.droom community" of' Osceola. 

lissnntially, successful insurance agent Handy hns orncted an 11xpcm,ivc sign that nashes the time and tompernture, unknowingly violating llrn town ordinance agaiust blinking signs. Members of local government (and one of Handy's competitors) are none too pleased about this wanton disregard or town law. 
Tho portrayal of roal people's reactions to a minor dispute makes this lilm interesting, and the subtle innuendoes tlrnt surface reveal all the issues Lhal a simple sign can raise. Polite opin­ions cvontuallv become mild accusations or a "good ol' boy system" and "another Las Vegas." 
The editing of the film is well done, with shots of othPr business signs "dangerously close" to violating city law and the declarations of each subject juxtaposed as if the speakers were debating each other. It's a very witty presentation of small-town politics and the people that get caught up in them. 

Josephine . 

Kara Zuaro, a senior from Bethpage, NY, 
and Chris Jara, a 2000 graduate from South 
Bend, direct this narrative aboul. I.he young 
life of an ambitious self-starter. 
The film documents her Italian upbringing 
(Godfather movies and a quirky father), 
clashes with authority in high school and 
experiences at a highly conservative univer­
sity (aka Notre Dame). Basically, it focuses 
on how the young woman overcomes a suc­
cession of obstacles. 
The story itself isn't the main message, but 
how it serves to present the personality of 
the central character within it. The film is 
narrated by the character's mother who, in 
an affectionate yet truthful tone, interjects 
her personal opinions among the description 
of events transpiring in the film. 
The running commentary helps the viewer 
to identify with the main character in the sit­
uations encountered during the story. Even if 
the description is brimming with a mother's 
love, it presents enough objectivity to effec­
tively reveal much more about the protago­
nist than what can be observed from her visi­
ble actions. 


The Death of Gwyneth Paltrow 
Larice Woods, a 2000 graduate from 
Austin, Texas, and Joey Leniski, a 2000 grad­
uate from Mishawaka, direct this edgy, 
scathing portrayal of society's devotion to 
entertainment and public figures. The film 
takes an absurd concept and uses it to mirror 
the none-too-absurd implications reflected in 
the real world. 

When Hollywood's sweetheart is killed in a 
random car accident, her "guardian angel" is 
put on trial for crirriinal neglect. The public 
outrage and ensuing legal proceedings con­
tinue in an almost surreal manner, with a news reporter giving a running account of the prisoner's transfer with eerily objective com­ments such as "this is the first time a divine being has stood trial under human law." 
Incredibly, the above events don't seem as improbable when placed in the context of I.his film, painting a very disturbing picture of how a society as a whole can so easily throw aside religion for the sake of a personality -some­one whom they have never met. The resolu­tion of this far-fetched situation is powerfully and uncompromisingly delivered. 
Other films included (but not limited to) in the 13-film production are: 

Hash Brown Blues 

Directed by Tom Ilepetto, a senior from Norwood Park, Ill., and David Chamberlin, a 2000 gradual.e from Indianapolis, here is the story about a young blues musician and his travels "on the road." 

The Paper 
Directed by Scott Blaszak, this is the story of a modern-day Charlie Chaplin trying to turn in a final paper before the deadline, despite mishaps that occur along the way. 
These eight films were made available for Scene to review. Five other student directed films will be shown during the 110 minute presentation. 

page 14 

The Observer . SPORTS Friday, January 26, 2001 
NBA 


Smith's 22 points leads Blazers past streaking Pacers 
Grizzlies routed the Mavericks Spurs 97, Kings 91 Donyell Marshall led Utah
Associated Press other guys will have confi­
101-74, Dallas' most lopsided Tim Duncan had a season­
with 24 points while Karl dence, too," Timberwolves 

defeat of the season.
INDIANAPOLIS high 36 points and 21 Malone scored 22 and coach rlip Saunders said. "It's Indiana's stingy defense was "The only explanation is rebounds as the San Antonio Stockton had 15 points and 10 nice when your best player no match for Steve Smith and that we were more prepared Spurs beat Sacramento 97-91 assists. John Starks and Bryon has that unselfish attitude."
tonight," acting Mavericks
the Portland Trail Blazers. Thursday night in the Kings' Bussell each added 12 for the LaPhonso Ellis came off the Smith scored 14 of' his 22 coach" Donn Nelson said. first loss in regulation at Arco Jazz. bench to score 24 points, and points in the fourth quarter "That loss definitely stung and Arena this season. Antonio McDyess led Denver Wally Szczerbiak added 22. 
we hadn't forgotten that. Duncan carried the Spurs
Thursday night as the Trail with 24 points and 12 Szczerbiak shot 9-for-12 and Blazers held off a late rally We 're a deeper team, more through a brutal, full-contact rebounds while Voshon Ellis was 8-for-14. 
and beat Indiana 92-82, snap­mature and were executing game in which neither team Lenard scored 23 and Van Terrell Brandon, who had 18
better."

ping the Pacers' four-game led by more than six points Exel had 19, including 10 in points and six assists, was 8­
Dirk Nowitzki had 19 points until the closing minutes. the fourth quarter.
winning streak. for-10, adding another 
"I hit some shots, the guys and 10 rebounds and Hubert Derek Anderson got 15 of his The Nuggets have been one impressive performance dur­were setting some picks and Davis added 19 points off the 20 points in the second half' as of the best teams in the NBA . ing the winning streak. He is looking for me," Smith said. bench for the Mavericks, who San Antonio held on late for lately, winning 15 of 19 since averaging 20.8 points and 7 .6 "They came back in the fourth won for the fourth time in just its second victory in the mid-December, but they knew assists while shooting 55.9 quarter, but we're a pretty their last five games. last six games. they'd have to improve their 6-percent during the past five 
Dallas posted its season­Chris Webber scored 23
good team. We gutted it out 12 road record to be taken games.
high point total and its largest points but shot 8-for-25 while seriously.
and got us a victory." "There's no reason he could­Portland set the tone early, margin of victory for the sea­playing the second half with As it turned out, Denver lost n't be player of the week, s on. Vancouver lost its sixth
hitting 10 of its first 13 shots his left eye half-swollen shut its 10th straight in Salt Lake month, whatever it is," and building an 18-point lead in a row. after being poked by David Citv and its 28th in the last 30 · Garnett said. before the Pacers closed with­The Mavericks rolled to a Robinson. Peja Stojakovic also vislts after the Jaiz erased a Garnett, though, was the 
in three on a basket by Jalen 71-43 halftime lead behind 15 had 23 points for Sacramento, 90-83 deficit midway through player of' this game. Among his Rose at the end of the third points and eight rebounds which missed 14 free throws the fourth quarter. highlight film plays was a quarter. from Nowitzki and 13 from and moved the ball with none behind-the-back assist from A 3-pointer by Reggie Miller Davis. Dallas had its biggest of its usual flair in the second the . low post to' Rasho
Timberwolves 109,

half of the season, surpassing half.
and a basket by Austin Nesterovic for a dunk. 
Croshere had Indiana within a 69-point second half against Still. Sacramento pulled Magic 100 "He might be the only guy in Houston on Dec. 30. within 93-91 with 1 :16 Ief't on Kevin Garnett's name was
69-65 in the fourth period. But the league -or one of only
Dallas broke open the game seven straight points by well down the list among the
Smith scored two straight bas­one or two -who does not 
by outscoring the Grizzlies 39-Webber. Duncan hit a short Minnesota Timberwolves'
kets, Greg Anthony hit one of have to score 26, 28 points to 
20 in the second quarter hook shot to put San Antonio scoring leaders for a change. dominate a game," Saunders
two free throws and Smith and 

behind Davis· 13 points and up by four. and Webber was Timberwolves forward
Rasheed Wallace scored again said. "Sometimes when we're to break the game open. Nowitzki's 12. The Mavericks called for an offensive foul LaPl\onso Ellis gets some hang asking Kevin to score so much, "We were hitting our shots," shot 69.6 percent in the sec­with 37 seconds left. time after missing a dunk. he wasn't able to do the other Smith said. "When you've got ond quarter (16-for-23) and Yet Garnett was the major things at times. Everything we a lot of guys hitting shots it's Davis hit all three 3-point Jazz 98, Nuggets 96 reason why the Timberwolves do, offensively and defensive­
attempts. defeated the Orlando Magic
hard to pick a guy to come off John Stockton hit two tech­ly. is geared off him." Tracy
for their fifth victory in a row.

of. You've got to double a lot The Mavericks wanted get nical foul shots in the last 1.3 McGrady led the Magic with 
off to a better start than they Garnett had 16 points, 18 28 points. He made only 11 of
of our guys on our team, and seconds, lifting the Utah Jazz 
we were kind of making them did on Tuesday night when to an odd victory over the rebounds and was two assists 29 shots and was just 5-for-12 
the were outscored by the shy of' producing his second from the foul line. 
pay the price for it." Denver Nuggets. 
Philadelphia 76ers in the first triple-double of' the season. Darrell Armstrong added 21
The Nuggets were assessed
quarter, 32-20, en route to a 'Tm doing the little things, points for the Magic.
the first technical for calling
Mavericks 120, Grizzlies 83 114-98 defeat. Nash was like blocking shots, rebound­
•The Timberwolves scored 11

timeout when they had none
The Dallas Mavericks clear­especially anxious to play well ing," Garnett said. "There points in a row -including
left. After Stockton hit the first
ly remembered what hap­against Vancouver. his native ain't no 'I' in none of this. five by Szczerbiak -in the
shot for a 97-96 lead, Nick
pene~ the last time the city. Totally team." 
first quarter to take a 22-20

Van Exel got another technical
Vancouver Grizzlies came to Garnett helped the
"We were determined after lead. The Wolves increased
for arguing with referee Tony
town. 

the last loss {to Philadelphia) Timberwolves shoot a season­the lead to 5 3-43 before
Brothers.
Steve Nash scored 21 points high 54. 7 percent ( 41 for 7 5) 
to get off to a good start McGrady started connecting.
It was a strange finish to a
and Michael Finley added 20 tonight," Nash said. "We were despite making only six of 15 Held to five points over the
dramatic game. The Jazz ral~
as the Mavericks paid back able to push the ball, move it field goal attempts. game's first 21 minutes,
lied twice in the second half to
the Grizzlies with a victory. "What's happened here,
around, get some easy bas­McGrady scored the Magic's
win for the seventh time in the
In their previous visit to kets. I think this win gets our because of KG's unselfish play, next eight points in a stretch
last eight games.
Reunion Arena on Nov. 8, the is that down the stretch those
confidence back." of about two minutes. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
CLASSIFIEDS The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The_ Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
All the good homes are not gone!  Moving Sale: Recliner • $25,  SUMMER JOBS WITH GIFTED  Noreen and Colleen -do you think  
LOST & FOUND  We have 2, 4&5 bedroom houses live minutes from campus!  table & chairs -$200, bkshell · $25,  KIDS Northwestern University's Center for Talented Development is  PERSONAL  we'll be lucky enough to have Big Daddy Mac speak with us at our  
Dave 291-2209  computer desk -$65,  hiring residential counselors/T A's.  outing this evening??  
FOUND:  Macos@michiana.org  entertainm't stand -$25,  Experience w/ kids pref.  WE MISS YOU, PATRICK  I sure hope so. "A short, short  
Watch at DeBartolo Hal!.  phone stand -$10, Qn size mat­ Room/board provided for coun­ man..."  
Must identify lo claim.  Available immediately  tress set w/frame -$200,  selors. Comp. salary, great work  JUNIOR PARENT WEEKEND  
3 bdrm, 1 112 bath home  armoire -$100, dresser• $150,  experience. 6/24-8/12 +training.To  Chembelles -Friday afternoon is  
FOUND:  1 mi. from ND $300/wk. + utilities  night stand -$50. Call 243-5781.  apply, call (847)-467-7884.  Have your parents stay in real "Irish  coming -good luck with the comps!!  
Glasses at DeBartolo Hall.  Discount for monthly or 1 semester  Will deliver.  Comfort" at more affordable prices  
Must identify to claim.  payments Security Deposit  PET REFUGE, a no-kill animal  than area hotels.  Gourmet break- Knott 54  
required. 1-800-867-5901  Classy, family home with excellent  shelter just 1 0 min. from campus,  fast brunch included. Call The Wild  Keough 51  
FOR RENT  1-877-288-9330  curb appeal nestled on a wooded, cul-de-sac lot with perennial gar- needs volunteers and fosters. Please call 256-0886 or visit  Irish Rose Inn at 277-4303 or visit our site: www.irishrose.com  Game Highlights: Welcome back Timmy!  
Available immediately  dens and screened porch. Brick  www.petrefuge com and email us.  No meat  
3-SBEDROOM  Duplex: 1 bdrm efficiency  front, 4 bedroomi;, 2 1/2 baths,  VOLUNTEERS NEEDED  The press rules all  
HOMES CLOSE  About 1 mi. from ND  2800 sq. feet plus fully finished  COOKS AND DELIVERY DRIVERS  Zo can do the sprain  
TO CAMPUS  $125/wk includes utilities  walk-out basement with fireplace  WANTED. CALL BORACHO INC.  The Early Childhood Development  "Good fight, man"  
232-2595  Discount for monthly or 1 sem~ster  and excercise room. Huge kitchen  AT 258-9834.  Center, located at Saint Mary's  B3 is now 5-0  
mmmrentals@aol.com  payments  connected to family room with  College and the University of Notre  
Security deposit required  bookcase and fireplace. Upscale  Advertising sales  Dame, is looking for volunteers who  It's not called making love, it's  
HOUSES FOR RENT: ,) 5-br $900/month.  Available immediately 1-800-867-5901  appliances and indoor decor. City water. Clay schools. Farmington  Are you a self starter eager to work for the most respected advertising  enjoy young children If you would be interested in spend- called hooking up. They're world's apart.  
2)  4-br $1 COO/month.  1-877 -288-9330  Square pool and tennis courts.  company? Are you interested in a  ing 2 hours a week reading chil­ 
3)  3-br $600/month.  Close to N.D. $249,900. 272-3641  long lasting and rewarding career  dren's books, building with blocks,  Welcome to the world of South Park  
....  We'll make almost any changes to tile houses. Call Bill at 675-0776  FOR SALE  WANTED  selling to business owners? You can easily start earning $40k/year + bonuses and perks and head up  and singing songs with children, please call Kari Alford at 284-4693 (ECDC-SMC) or Debbie Hart at  Day 4 of the vagina crisis  
HOUSE FOR LEASE 7/01  PHONE CARDS  our new South Bend territory.  631-3344 (ECDC-ND).  Find that tape recorder yet Noah?  
4/5 BEDRM. 3 BLOCKS TO CAM­ $20 ­2601 min with .49 cent sur- Parents who are ND grads seek  Please fax your resume and  Please join our tun-fill,ed days.  
PUS. 773-486·8822  chargeor $20 ­362 min with no s1.1rcharge  older female babysitter to care for two girts ages 7 & 9, one or two.  Summer Jobs with gifted kids Northwestern University's Center  Mary Shanley · can we do that  I want my bed -bad  
House for rent near ND.  634-4210 -SARA or  weekend evenings & occationally  for Talent Development is hiring  again later??  I love photo people who make me  
2 bedrooms. No pets. $525 plus  634-1146 CLAUDIA  weekends or evenings in our home.  residential counselors/Tas.  stay up all night  
deposit.  Must have own car. Call Judith and  Experience w/kids pref.  Andrea Louise -what should the  
219-654-8157.  Beautiful brass bed, queen size,  leave message: 287-0260.  Room/board provided for coun­ next headline be about one of the  And sports people who lose their  
with orthopedic mattress set and  selors. Comp. Salary, great work  two coolest (and prettiest) girls on  tape recorders  
NICE HOMES FOR NEXT  deluxe frame.  All new, never used,  Great job opportunity:  experience 6/24-8/12 + training. To  campus??  
SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND  still in plastic.  Care for adorable children 1 morn- apply, call (847)-467-7884 and  
 Need something covered -fast?  
GOOD AREA  $235.  inga week.  send a brief letter telling us why  Eeyore, Piglet and Tigger -get  Call the sports guru who lives clos­ 
277•3097.  219-862-2082.  254-9466  you're the one. 688-206-4054  ready for Heartland tonight.  est to all the sports venues.  

Friday, January 25, 2001 
The Observrr . SPORTS page 15 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Illini squeak out 55-51 against Wolverines 
Auoci:ateci Prceu 
ANN ARBOR, Mich Illinois admitted it was lucky to win. 
Frank Williams scored 18 points as No. 7 Illinois, af~er trailing for 33 minutes. rallied down the stretch and beat Michigan 55-51 Thursday night 
"They did all the things you're supposed to do to win a basketball game," Illinois coach Bill Self said. "I just feel very fortunate to get out of here with a win." 
Jllinois (16-4. 6-1 Big Ten) won its fourth straight game and seventh of eight. The Illini are off to their best start in the conference since the 1983­84 season. 
Sergio McClain made a 3­pointer to give Illinois a 4 7 ~44 lead with 3:00 left, which marked its first lead since the opening minutes. 
"I was just open and you can't be afraid to take those type of shots in these type of situations.w McClain said. UI took advantage of it." 
Williams followed McClain's basket up with a layup, which gave the IIJini a lead they were able to maintain. 

Michigan's LaVeil Blanchard scored 26 points after scoring a career-high 30 in the win over No. 21 Iowa on Saturday. Bernard Robinson added 18 points. 
"It was a great opportunity, but we let it slip through our hands," Blanchard said. 
The Illini played uninspired and seemingly without focus much of the night. 
When Michigan led 33-24 early in the second half, Self designed a play during a time­out with 12 seconds on the shot clock. 
The llJini never got a shot off or even looked at the bas­ket. 
"That's a sign of your guards not being with it,.. Self said. "We ran the perfect play, but we didn't throw the ball in the post. The ball is in Frank's hand with four seconds left and he throws a skip pass. He hasn't done that all year. That was pitiful execution." 
Williams agreed. "That was my fault," he said. 
Associated Pius 
WASHINGTON 

How deep is Georgetown (No. 11 ESPN/USA Today, No. 10 AP)? Look at birthday boy Wesley Wilson a reserve center averaging 14 minutes a gam~. scoring 18 points in Thursday night's 79-62 victory over UNLV. 
"You saw how well Wesley can play if the stu­pid coach gives him some minutes," said Ho_yas coach Craig Esherick, whose team has lost Just once this season. 
Wilson had plenty of incentive against the Rebels. It was his 21st birthday, and he was facing the high school coach who didn't give him much playing time in high s~hool. . 
The Hoyas needed him, especially on a night when starting guards Demetrius Hunter and Kevin Braswell were both 2-for-9 from the field. Georgetown trailed by 10 after 41/2 minutes and didn't have a field goal until Wilson made three in a row. Wilson. a sophomore who didn't play last year because of academic reasons. made 7 of 11 shots and neutralized UNLV's inside threat, Kaspars Kambala. 
After the game, Wilson said all the right things about team play and contributing off the bench but the modesty did crack when he was asked 'about the dunk that punctuated his night with 12 seconds to play. 
"I did that one for my birthday," Wilson said. 
Wilson and Braswell played for UNLV interim coach Max Good at Maine Central Institute. Neither started on a team that went undefeated and won the New England Prep School Athletic Conference championship, and Good knew they would be wanting to impress him. 
"It's human nature that they wanted to play 
Where it matters most. 

As one of the world's leading diversified technolog-j cornimies. we're breaking new g-ound in every­thing from defense and commercial electronics. and business aviation and s~ial mission aircraft. As a Raytheon employee, you'll contribute to the development of exc1tmg, revolutionary technolO!Jf designed to make life better, easief; and safer throughout the world. Such as our STARS air traffic control system.And our award-winning Nl(Jht5ight™tedlnology. 
But it all starts with you. Your creativity. Your knowledge and innovation. And enthusiasm about the future. In return, we offerexceptronal traimng and professional dl"Jelopment oppor­tunities. Asupportive, down-to-earth work environment And incredible benefits induding flexi­ble schedules designed to respect yaur quality of life. 
So you can still show off all those great qualities ofyours outside of work. too. 
We'll be vi!>iting your campus won -contact your career placement office for information on schedul~ and to arrange for an interview. If you are unable to meet with us, please send your resume to: E-mail: resume@rayjobs.com (ASCII text only; no attachments). Raytheon 
Hoyas beat Rebels, face Irish next 
well." Good said. "Wesley concentrated hard on academics when he was at our place, but you knew he was going to be a really good player. He had size and he's got strength. Ile came to the right system ... 
The Hoyas missed their first seven shots and trailed by 10 points within five minutes, but Wilson started the comeback, and strong oITen­sive rebounding had Georgetown ahead 41-35 at halftime. The Hoyas opened the second half with an 11-3 run, forcing three quick turnovers and holding the Rebels to one field goal over five minutes. 
Georgetown (17-1). playing its last non-con­ference game of the season, rebounded from its only loss, a 70-66 defeat to Pittsburgh l~st Saturday. UNLV (11-8). also wrapping up its non-conference schedule, has lost three of four after winning seven straight. 
Forward Dalron Johnson led UNLV with 14 points before leaving with a sprained his left ankle midway through the second half. 
Lou Kelly and Kambala had 12 points each for the Rebels, who are 0-3 against ranked teams. 
After shooting just 39 percent in a half-court first half. the Hoyas picke.d up the tempo at both ends and continued to dominate inside. Gerald Riley, Mike Sweetney and Ruben Boumtje Boumtje all scored in the paint at the start of the second half. 
The Hoyas led 68-47 before four straight bas­kets before the Rebels cut the lead to 13 points. But UNLV never got within single figures there­after. 
Nine Hoyas played at least 15 minutes. .. 
"They've got so much depth and power, Good said. "They've got all their bases cov­ered." 


.,,,;

r 
J ,.
r ~-. I i 
Opportunities are available for exceptional students with the following majors: 
• 
computer Science • Physics • Indus.trial and Labor . . Ch . IE · · g Relations

• 
Computer Engineering • em1Ca ngmeerm k . /C . t· 

• I E · · • Mar eting ommumca ions


• 
Electrical Engineering • Aeronaut1ca ngineertng . • . f t· • Management

• 
Mechanical Engmeermg • Finance Accoun mg 

• 
Math • Human Resources 


.,1, wl.,'t t www ray1·obs CO_m/campus for further information including acalendar
Ch""' out our e1.1>1 ea • • kf b , 1 · · g a d 
of recruiting events. At Raytheon, we strive to be the employer of choice for adiverse wor orce Yattracting, re ainm , n recognizing the most talented, resourceful and creative people. 
Company, Attn: National Staffing Data Center, P.O. Box 6602~, MS-201, Dallas, TX 
75266. U.S. Citizenship may be required. We are an equal opportunity employer. 
Bringing technology to the edge 

Raytheon 


page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, January 25, 2001 
SUPER BOWL XXXV 

Breakdown of Giants, Ravens reveals lots of similarities 
Got the urgeT 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. 
Ernie Accorsi, looking smooth in a black turtleneck, chats easi­ly with reporters at Raymond James Stadium. discussing all things Baltimore. 
He talks about his stint as a cub reporter for the Baltimore Sun, his five-year term as the Baltimore Colts' public relations director and seven more as the tea.m's assistant general manag­er and, ultimately, general man­ager. The fact that he was a consultant for the Baltimore­based movie "Diner," it's a won­der crab cakes don't come up. 
Accorsi was there when the 

"The teams are similar in 
Colts were time at unveiled in 1953. a lot ofways, they've Stanford 
"It was like a n d
overcome a lot this 
going to a college embraced 
season.,.

game," Accorsi the ways said. "I think the of offen-Colts were the first sive wiz­
Jason Sehom 

club to have cheer­ard Bill

Giants comerback
leaders and orga­nized cheering. The Colts put Baltimore on the map. It was the first thing that Baltimore really embraced." 
It isn't until later -much later -that you realize what was seriously wrong with that picture: Accorsi is the vice presi­dent and general manager of the New York Giants, not the Baltimore Ravens. This week in Florida, Accorsi has fielded more questions about Baltimore than the team he guided here to Super Bowl XXXV. It's almost strange that his bio isn't in the Ravens' media guide. 
Accorsi didn't make the trip when Colts owner Robert lrsay called for the Mayflower moving vans and sent the team packing to Indianapolis in 1984. In a weird turn of fate, it was Accorsi who literally laid a foundation for the team that would follow the Colts in Baltimore. He was the point man for Maryland Governor Donald Schaefer in the bid for an expansion franchise. In 1993, Accorsi helped sell all 100 skyboxes and 7,500 club seats for the proposed stadium that would become PSINet Stadium. 
Accorsi is indeed the touch­
stone of this Super Bowl XXXV 






---~;:~"~;;-~ 
· ··•··\11r:1i '~:~~~,"F~r::!.\T-1~1!1:11111:;i:;
-~=••
'a~~hs~J:11···.'.·'• r.. '.::.:1:I''.' 
o 
*$ 
'*h·· 
*\I
'*t~ .• 
.i 
a *Anf
byto 
awa 
new 


ofse. 

:,:..:::\:i?:/:\;:)\,::­
..,=:./=... , ·=·•·»•·=·,•·'' ··"= ram! 

that pits his Giants against the Baltimore Ravens. Once againt the teams from New York and Baltimore will collide for the NFL championship, echoing those terrific clashes in 1958 and 1959 (won by the Colts) that helped spark the nation's inter­est in professional football. 
Accorsi's divided sentiments are perfectly appropriate in this ultimate game that blurs the lines between us and them. The Giants and Ravens, in so many respects, are the same team. 
Let us count the ways: 
The coaches 

Baltimore's Brian Billick and t}J.e Giants' Jim Fassel are best bud­dies. They both spent 
Walsh. 
They are 

glib (some would say arrogant), anal-reten­tive managers who have made all the right moves this season. "The hardest thing through this, on a personal level, has been not being able to pick up the phone and call Jim, which I normally would in most of my profession­al situations that have come up," Billick said. "We have a great deal of respect for each other, enjoy each other's company and that makes this that much more special." 
The owners 

The Giants' Wellington Mara, 84, and Baltimore's Art Modell, 75, are two of the few remaining old-school owners. Unlike the Daniel Snyders and Jerry Joneses, the business of their life is football. "We're part of the old guard," Modell said, "and the old guard can now hold meet­ings in a phone booth." 

The re-bom quarterbacks. 
Both the Giants' Kerry Collins and the Ravens' Trent Dilfer were first-round draft choices in the 1990s and suffered through mediocrity -and much, much worse. Collins played in the 1996 NFC championship game, but his life soon fell apart. Dilfer comes to Tampa, where he was 38-38 as a starter, looking for redemption, too. "We have over­come a lot of things," Dilfer said. Now, they must overcome each other. 
Where they came from 
The Ravens were 8-8 last sea­son, while the Giants were 7-9 -a middling total of 15°17. While some believed Baltimore might contend for a playoff berth, few thought the Giants would be postseason players. Coming into the game, they are a combined 29-8. Parity, as far as these teams are concerned, is a wonderful thing. 
Miami linebackers 
Apparently, you have to have one to reach this final stage. The Ravens give you Ray Lewis, while the Giants offer Jessie Armstead and Micheal Barrow. Armstead and Lewis had dinner 
Fresh-baked Cini-minis for just 99c. Maximum taste. Minimum price. 
on Jan. 16 in New York after they earned their way to the Super Bowl. "I told Ray before the season that we would meet in Tampa," Armstead said. "He said, 'You were right.' I think it's going to be a great feeling for both ofus.n 


Hot coordinators 
Baltimore defensive coordinator Marvin Lewis will apparently have his choice of the head coaching positions in Buffalo and Cleveland. Bet on Buffalo. Giants offensive coordinator Sean Payton and defensive coor­dinator John Fox are destined to join Lewis as head coaches in the NFL. The only question is when. 


Suffocating run defense 
Baltimore is ranked No. 1 against the run -the currency of champions -allowing only 
60.6 yards per game. The Giants were No. 2, at 72.3 yards per game. The defenses could outscore the offenses in this one. 

"The teams are similar in a lot of ways, they've overcome a lot through the season," said Giants cornerback Jason Sehorn. "Both teams struggled in areas. Look at Baltimore, they went a month without a touchdown. We had our own problems. We lost back-to-back games twlce. But it's two teams on a roll now. They've won 10 and we've won seven. 
For all the criticisms of these two mirror-image teams, they come to this game with nearly unprecedented momentum. The Ravens and Giants have won 17 consecutive games between them, the second-highest Super Bowl total ever, one behind the Dolphins and Redskins of 1973. 
Enjoy the game and remem­ber this handy viewing tip: The Ravens are the ones wearing purple and gold. 
The irresistible taste of Cini-minis. 
Whether It was the smell or the great cinnamon taste that lured you In, after one bite you'll soon realize that the only thing small about our delicious Cini-minis is the price. 
The Huddle, Lafortune Student Center 
Page 17 

Friday,January 26, 200 l The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


THE FOLLOWING IS ALIST OF ALL FIRST ROUND GAMES FOR ALL LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS TEAMS. TIMES FOR FURTHER GAMES WILL BE DETERMINED AT THE END OF THE FIRST ROUND. 
Be aReal Champion -Support Special Olympics!!! $1.00 Donation Requested at the Door 
Friday, January 26 7:00 PM-4:00 AM ioyce Center :tJl-6100 
All LNO Medals Were Donated by the Notre Dame Alu11111i Associatio11 

WALSH / SORIN CARROLL/ BADIN / HOLY CROSS 
YOI.LIClf'WAl.L. re....... • '1100 
VOl.ll:Y9A'..I.. TCAM A 9100 Tt:;A'"" 8 e1:io TEAM B NA TC,1,.M A.. 10100 Mu,1'• B"oaM ¦ •t..L l Z11 ~ Tt:AM A NA Mew"• 8"IOQ"411ALL NA TC:AM 8 '7140 WfJMt.N 1 ¦ 81100M ¦ ALJ.. 8100 Tt.:AM B NA WDMC:N°a Bllt00M8ALL. 9100 T.C:AM A !JJOIJ JCICICllAL..\. 6130 W0"'1CN·¦ BAak.tTll.4.1,.,L TCAM A NA 1(1Ck8A~L NA T&:AM 8 NA TICA.M 9 NA T(AM A 71:JC Sr30 Tt:AM A 911 !, Wtr'1.CIALl. TEAM A 10115 Tc.-.... a 11,00 BrQC TCAM 8 NA TIAM 8 NA TCAM A 9100 MON ¦ Tc~ ooooc•'"''-'"' 12100 TAPUIC:.T (JQLP' TCAM A 9130 MON ¦ TEl'I" DooaceAL'-I 2100 T'"AM 9 NA IMNCftTU ¦ E W14.Tr.ff POLO Tr"""' A 19130 Tc•""' e NA 11-'Nr:NTUeC WATl:JI POLO TrAM /It NA 
Co·R!ic0 Boear,a T'l!:AM .A '1130 T~4M 9 NA Co• ~EC 9 occrtt TtAM A 11,00 Tt:AM 9 NA
·"""'-;,.~ . ' *"' .. 
Tt:A.'-i 8 10100 LNO. 0il ¦ ,-»c3\.E Cou,..c Tl!:4.M A T1U,M Q LN C aa ¦ TA0.1.C CQUJl ¦ C Tl'AM A NA l(,1,,V.l.lt1MCI TCA.M A. TE:•M e ~:,,. Tt::AM A Tc:AM 11 NA

'~_;,:· ~;J'i 

Tl:AM 8 ., TA•U: T.SNNN, . -T~AM B CALL. 1•6 J 00 
."'-,4····.i. 
~. ",,· 
•:~j.w_," ~.:;r ,,,;1~,.,..... ,.,...,,A~_;;,,W}W,, , • ., 
LYONS / ALUMNl-l :'"".w'7Ror::,....ro1,ErR'~ s-sEY ..1 LEM AN'S ..
··~·-' ·;,,,~,. • ,'-' ,''-,.' ',, ·•, ,•' •< 
rt:AM A vau.cv•AL.L Tll:AM A !:1130 TCAMI B 7100 WOMCt-1 1 ¦ RAQQUl;T8ALL NA TrAM A 9140 ·•11!:N' ¦ 811100M ¦ ,t.l.L B1CIO TEAM 9 NA WOMEN1 a B11100M ¦ ALl 8130 "TCAM A, NA K1CKIIALL NA TCAM 8 NA NA
«t,\ ~­
TCAM A 91 . , ~:"£>"'LC8ALL 9130 WIFJ'LC::IIALL. TtAM A IOt:10 TE"A-M 9 110 "' i. 7149 11tAM B NA 
Tr:•..., A NA~·,,.,_,. MOMSfl:11 Ooaar:a...LL 0100 MO,., ¦ TUt Oooiu:aALL 12100 TCAM B NA ......c,.Tuac WA'TICPI POLO NA INNC:JITUIIII: WATCii. POLO TtAM A NA ca•~&Q aoccu, TC:AM A 10 B130 TCAM B NA TCA"'4 B l Ol O LNO CllaTAOLIC cou" ¦ E. NA LNO OeaTAOLC Cow, ¦ £ Tt::AM A 9130 KAYAKING TCAM A N"tl TEAM A 10100 TtAM 8 NA TCAM 9 TA ¦ LC: Tl:NJtU ¦ Tl:AM B NA TA¦ LE TENNI ¦ CALL 1•6100 
-~ 

. • ,W-0"'",illl: -~ 


s~,;~e:.~ r FARLEY 
VOLLl:Vl!IAU.. TEAM A •\~;/'t;i~\_WIF'F'LtBALI.. . !010 . MtN'• BA ¦ «.il'T9M.L. TIE'AM 8 \ ·1(}0 -~ Co•,~~-,.~OC:CEllfJ,-, ...:, 102.:JC 
TEAM e ,a ·aoMaAl.1. ;t· .r ........ 12J4~ T1U,M A. TCNNI ¦ CALL 1•6100 TEAM 8 S A:ACQUETBALL CALL 1·6100 
oi y;,f<""~;.~~-:·" ~.. ~ 

S·~'f;~ER . 
__, ·-,.,,.. " 

VCLL.ICYl!fALL TCAM A. MEH1• RAcquJt ¦ A'-L CALL I ·6100 TltAM 8 WOMIEN11 RACQalETIALL CALL 1·6100 
Mu,,'a 8A ¦ Klt.T ¦ ALL. TCAM A MEN' ¦ 8"-00Ml!tAL.L a100 TCAM 8 WoMu,i' ¦ BPlOOMilALL NA 
WOMICH1a 8J.. ¦ KllT9Al.i.. TEAM A KICKBALL 71:10 
TEAM El Nc111,,. rool"eALL TEAM /It. w,,-,.u:;9ALL TEAM A NA TrAM B Tr:AM 8 NA 
TE'AM .. MDHIT'EIIII 00DClt:: ¦ "LL 12100 TCAM 8 NA 
Co·Rca Socc:r:,. TEAM A. 8100 TE.AM 8 -9130 TCAM A TCAM 9 NA 

,:~~~~~ 
wm:~EGFRI~~.: PA,:0QU=~l•==~-~ll, '-\• 
TCAM 9 NA WOM<N' ¦ RACQUETULL~~ TCAM A 9120 MEN' ¦ 8111:DD""BALI. -8130 TEAM 8 NA. WOMCP•l• 8"00Mt1ALL 9t00 TCAM A lllt00 K,c,caALL 7130 TCAM 9 NA 
NIE!IP' J:'QOTIU,LL TC:AM A 71I S T-EAM A Tt::AM 9 1.ih4S Tl:AM S 
TAIIOET GoLr TUM A B130 MON ¦ T!'.11 Oooo,;11ALL 
TCAM B NA INMl:"TUlllt WATt::111 POLC Tl'AM A Co.. Rrc !loccr:111 TCAM A 71:30 TEAM B TCA.M B NA LNO Olll ¦ TACLt: COUllt ¦ I: TIEAM A g,oo 
KAY,u::0,10 Tc.a.MA 11,00 'rEAM.8~-'....,.11100 Tc..a.M e 12t20 """tt',-,&,1·00 f' 
.ti---~-~ _-:,,/·'' 
"· STANFOR•s
DILLON / LEWIS ,.i·· 
VOLLl:Y ¦ ALL TCAM A 7100 Mt:.N' ¦ RACQUC"T ¦ ALL CALL .1··6 100 CALL 1•6100
e1 . 0 MEH01 R.--CQ\JCT8ALI. TCAM 8 NA WoMCN 1 ¦ RIACQ\JCT9A\.I.. CALL 1·6 IOCI 7130 WOMCN 1 ¦· RACQUETBALL NA 
TEAM A 10100 MCN 1¦ 8111O0MletAt..L.. 9130 9120 MEN1I 8,tOOM•ALL 9100 TEAM 8 NA WD"-U:M 1¦ 8111O0fr-41ALL 91JC 9120 WOMEN' ¦ BROOM ¦ Al.l. 1214:I WCMC~ia BA&l<E.TllALL. TCAM A 9120 KICK ¦ AU. 8100 a1sa
1 . 100 KICICIIA,l.L TtA.M 8 NA 9140 TC:AM .. I 1115' TC:-'-.MA '1100 WIJTLC ¦ AI.L TIC.AM A Bt45 
TCA"'4 S 9100 ll:AM S 8115 TCAM A NA MDN•ru, DOOQ&'BALJ,, ,.l'JOO TA,ull:T Goi..r T.tAM A 814:5 MON ¦ T'r111 Dooac ¦ AL"-12,00 TtAM B NA IN"'IEJHU ¦ !: WATE.l't POLO TEAM A NA 1°CAM 9 Billi 1WNC:ftTUB£ WA'Tr.;ft POLO Tl!AM A 8130 
co-R:co soccc-. re-."" A. 9130 Tl:A;-4 8 NA 1Cll0C Tt:AM 8 NA 
TCAM B 7130 
TCA1"4 A TCAM B NA Ll'IC 0UTAC~l C01JHE TUM A NA TrAM 8 , ,,oo LN a Oe•TACLI: COUll ¦ E TC.AM A 'iUOCI 1(11;V,U!IHO TC•M A NA TIC.AM 8 NA Tt"AM A 111-40 Tt:..a.M 9 NA 
TrAM S NA NA NA C:AI...L 1·6100
TCA"" 8 
ZAHM / CAVANAUGH / REGINA O'NEILL/ MCGLINN 
T&AM A. 'ihCO MCN 1 ¦ RACQUCT ¦ AL~ CALL 1·6100 VQL.LC.YDA\.L, TCAM A .,100 MCN1¦ AACQUl!:TBALL OALL 1·61 OD 
T~"'4 8 7130 WOMCN'a RAOQUitT ¦ A&.L NA TEAM B 8100 WOMl:H1a J:IACQUET ¦ AL.L NA TC#lh4 A. 9100 MEH18 BIIOOM ¦ ALL. 9130 T&AM A. 9,20 Mt:t,,.' ¦ B,_OOM8ALL 9100 
TCA~ 9 NA WOMCM 1 ¦ 811100M ¦ ALI,,. 1115 T,C:A-i-4 Q 10,00 WQt,,tl:N 1 ¦ BflDllM8ALL 1211:1 Tl!AM A 9100 K1CK.A\.L 913CI WOMCN 1 ¦ 8 ..,_8KIICTIALI. Tt:AM" 9120 tCICK ¦ Al.oL 7t!IO Tf.1,M 8 9140 Tr:•'"' 8 NA Nr111ir J"0att11ALL Tt:A."" A 9130 TCA.M A NA Nl'1'1" F'OOT'IALI.. TC.1,,M A ?1CI0 W1,.,.L1: ¦ ....LL 10100
Tl:AM A 

Tc:_AM e NA TEAM 9 NA Tt:•M 9 I 1145 TEAM B 1011!1 TAftDC.T CiOt.,. TC#lM A NA MQN ¦ TCII DODOC8AL.J.. I a100 
'fAJIIIIICT ll-OLP" TttAM A 8145 MDN ¦ Tt.,.. 0000EIALL 1a100 
TICAM 8 BtCI0 ,,..,,u;;1tTU ¦( WATCII POLO Tlt..a.M A 10100
TEAM 8 NA INHl:N.TUDr; WATC-. PCLC Tl'AM A 9100 
re...,.,. s NA

TcA.,. A 9aOO TtAM 8 NA Tr::AM A 10130 TE.-.M 9 NA I.NC oaaTACLt CouMIC TtAiM A 10115 T&.AM B 8130 LND O ¦ •Y•c.~E Cou"•c TEAM A 911111:) 914! 121,0 TEAM B 10130
KA'f'A.ICINO TCAM A !210CI TICAM 8 TCAM A, CALL 1•6100
TAel.lC TCNNI ¦

TCA.M 8 10120 CALL 1•6100 TEAM 8 NA 


page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, January 25, 2001 HOCKEY 



Irish's Harris eager to play in front of hometown crowd 

Notre Dame faces Yale this weekend in a non-conference game, and then doesn't play a CCHA game until it takes on Ohio State next weekend in Columbus. 
That is plenty of time for the Irish to regroup. That is why Poulin likes the schedule. His team doesn't have to worry about making the playoffs, or where they sit in the CCHA. They can go out and play hock­ey and have fun. 
"Michigan was a tough game," said Harris. "We are going to go into [this weekend] with our heads up. We are not worried about rankings; we are just going to play our best hockey." 
Not1 c Oa.me expects Yale to play a very fast paced game. While Notre Dame plays a big physical game, the Bulldogs have small speedy forwards to play fast paced aggressive hockey. 

"They have talented for­wards," said Harris. "They are small and we hope to come out and use our size and strength to beat them." 
By MATT ORENCHUK 
Sports Writer, 
Everyone can remember a day in their youth when they discovered something they love. 
For Notre Dame's Paul Harris his day was when his discov-· ered hockey for the first time. He was 9-years old when he went to a Yale-Harvard hockey game in New Haven, Conn. 
"I discovered hockey at Yale," Harris 

Dame played an excellent game last Saturday against Ohio State, fighting for a 2-2 tie. But any momentum the Irish might have gotten from that game was squashed at the hands of Michjgan. 
The Wolverines got every bounce to go their way and jumped out to a 2-0 lead just three minutes into the game. Michigan then added one more goal at the end of the first to take a 3-0 lead into the first intermission. 
The second 
said. "I had 
period pro­

"We are going to go into
never been on 
vided more of 

skates before. [this weekend] with our 
the same. 
My parents 

heads up. We are not Michigan
took me to the 
scored 5:.27

worried about rankings. 
Yale game. 
into the peri­

The next day we are just going to play 
od to up their 
my parents 

our best hockey " lead to 4-0. 
went out and 
That was 
bought the 
when Irish 
skates, and I Paul Harris 

coach Dave got ·my start." sophomore defenseman Poulin pulledT h e 
Irish goalie
Ridgefield, 

Kyle Kolquist in favor of junior
Conn. sophomore is thrilled to 

Jeremiah Kimcnto. 
be traveling to his home state 

Kimento wasn't any better,
for this weekend's two-game 

giving up three more goals in 
set with the Yale Bulldogs. 

the second and two in the third 
"I am really excited," said 

for the final of 9-0. The loss 
Harris. "All my friends from 

was the worst for Notre Dame 
high school are going to be 

since a January 1996 loss to 
there." 
Michigan.
Harris and his teammates 

"We competed well against
will have an uphill battle ahead 

Michigan," said Poulin. "We 
of them. Not only is Notre 

had a lot of bad bounces. 
Dame playing a tough non-con­

though. One of the goals was a 
ference foe in Yale, the Irish 

turnover in our own zone, and 
are also coming off their worst 

another bounced off of 
performance of the season 

Kolquist's skate." 
against Michigan this past 

Although a 9-0 loss to 
Tuesday. 

Michigan doesn't exactly give
The Irish were drubbed 9-0 

Notre Dame a lot of confidence,
against the Wolverines. Notre 

it doesn't hurt them too much. 



Watlft 
...
¦ 

She may be loaded 
Happy 21 st Ang Love, Christopher 
91UJituwt Jazz 

ressionistic, ene 
momentum, spa wtion and creati 

Classes meet: Thursdays • 6:30 -7:45pm Saturdays • 12:00 -1:30pm RSRC-Activity Rm. 2 
bifi1rmation Meeting Sunday, January 28 • 1:30pm Rolfs Sports Recreation Center • Activity Rm. 2 
Register in advance at RecSports • $39 Jee Sign,Ups begin Monday, January 29 • 8:00am Classes begin Thursday, February 8 No Experience Necessary. R--~ 
r Spring Break Setninars 
March 10-18, 2001 Experiential/Service Learning 
Center for Social Concerns 
APPALACHIA SEMINAR 
-> Work and learn at one of 10 sites in the Appalachian region 
-> An ND tradition of service-learning 
L'ARCHE COMMUNITY SEMINAR 
-> Live for a week in community with persons with disabilities -> Read the work of Jean Vanier, Henri Nouwen 

MIGRANT EXPERIENCES SEMINAR 
-> Work in the fields with migrant workers -> Assist agencies that serve migrants -> Live with migrant families 

WASHINGTON SEMINAR 
Theme: International Humanitarian Issues 
-> Direct contact with political, agency, and Church leaders in Washington, D.C. -> Service and political awareness opportunities 
All seminars offer one academic credit  
tetl 
CENTER  FOR  
SOCIAL  
Applications Available Now at the CSC  CONCERNS  
A p p I i c a t i o n s  D u e: Ja n. 31, 2001  





Friday, January 25, 200 I The Observer . SPORTS page 19 




8-ball 
continued from page 24 
it's going to be a big crowd, it's two teams with real good records in the West, two teams that are playing pretty well right now." 
Despite the different records, names on the team rosters haven't changed much. 
Everyone who scored for Notre Dame in last year's lopsided win is back, with the energy of Hyan Humphrey injected. 
Georgetown's top players from a year ago return, including 7-footer Huben Bou m tj e Bou m tj e, junior guard Kevin Braswell, junior Demetrius Hunter and senior Anthony Perry. But Hoyas' freshmen Mike Sweetney, who averages a team-high 12.2 points and 
7.5 rebounds per game, and Gerald Riley, with 9.6 points per game, have shot new blood into the Georgetown squad. 
"They've got some good freshmen coming in, and they're playing really well together," said Ingelsby, 
While both squads are hot, they come into the game with different strengths. 
Georgetown doesn't have a single player among the 

csc 
C E N T E R F O R 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
NOTICE: CSC VEHICLE DRIVERS 
ALL CURRENr VEHICLE REQUESTS TERMINATE AT THE END OF FALL 2000 SEMESTER! ,ALL GROUPS MUST REAPPLY AT THE BEGINNING OFTHE SPRING SEMESTER! 
Comments or questions cscvans@nd.edu 
TS 

Castle Point Select CTnits Available for "Next Semester 
::-within Minutes of Campus•i­-Spacious one and two bedroom apartments, some -w-ith lofts and dens. -Includes membership in the ne-w­Castle Point Racquet Club 
top 20 scorers in the Big East, instead relying on depth, using eight players who score seven points a game or better. 
Big East steeds leader 
Braswell is the only Hoya is 
leads the league in an indi­
vidual category. 
Notre Dame's Troy Murphy, Humphrey and David Graves all rank among the Big East's top 20 scorers, with Murphy post­ing a league-high 24 points per game. But after the six "starters," Notre Dame gets little contribution. 
Georgetown's wealth of solid, but not jaw-dropping players, has the lloyas top­ping the conl"erence in scor­ing, winning margin, field goal percent defense, rebounding and steals. Notre Dame is close behind, ranking in the top three in all the above categories except steals, but the Irish do it by having Ollll or two players stand out in most areas. 
With Georgetown putting up so many points per game, Notre Dame needs to avoid getting into an up and down race. 
"Tempo is going to be really a key," Brey said. "We have to be patient in our half-court offense and not just score on their gam­bles on defense." 
Georgetown is both high scoring and smothering on defense. But while the Hoyas know how to get things done on offense, defense defines them. 
"They come at you for 40 minutes and really pressure you," lngelsby said. "If we can handle the pressure and get into our half-court offense, we should be all right. 
The Irish are just begin­ning to make defense part of their identity. After los• ing three of four games in early January, all on the road, they turned the focus from going to the hoop to halting their opponents. It worked like a light switch during the last three home games. 
"Our identity is changing a little bit, as far as we've used the phrases dirty work, loose balls, hustle plays," Brey said. "Our guys have come to realize that we need to do a little dirty work to win some games. Our overall presence on the defensive end has become more important." 
Notes 
. 
Saturday's game will be a homecoming f'or Brey, who is from the Washington, DC area and former assistant coach at DeMatha lligh School. Several players will also have family in the house. Ingclsby, Matt Carroll and Torrian Jones all hail l'rom the Philadelphia area, and Murphy is a New Jersey native, all four within a sev­eral hour drive of Washington, 

. 
Carroll will get to see his younger brother, Pat, in action on the basketball court, Pat Carroll is a senior on a Hatboro-Horsham bas­ketball team that will take on Bish.op O'Connell in the DeMatha Invitational Friday night at the MCI Center. Pat Carroll plans to play for St. Joseph's (Penn.) next year. 



page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, January 25. 2oq1 
BASEBALL 

Irish sluggers ranked No. 13 in ESPN poll 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame baseball team continues to rack up high rankings in the national preseason polls, as the ESPN USA Today r-== Baseball Weekly 

I preseason coach-
I r es poll has tabbed the Irish 13th in anticipa-· tion of the upcoming sea­
O'Toole's offensive numbers 
stood out for a catcher. The 
backstop hit .302 with 8 
home runs to go along with 16 stQlen bases. Ten pitchers also return from a Notre Dame staff that ranked 16th in the nation with a 3.93 ERA in 2000. 
The staff is led by senior Aaron Heilman, who returns to S0uth Bend after being draft­ed by the Minnesota 
son. ~_____.,= Twins as a "sandwich 
Paul Mainieri's Mainieri team previously has been ranked ninth in the Baseball America preseason poll and 14th by Collegiate Baseball magazine. The Irish return seven experi­enced position starters and nine of their top-10 hitters 
from the 2000 squad that posted a 46-18 record and advanced to the NCAA Championship. 
Senior shortstop Alec Porzel led the Irish both offensively and defensively Ja·st season. Porzel's 58 runs batted in last season led the Irish. 
Juniors Stflve Stanley and Paul O'Toole are coming off strong summers in the Cape Cod League and look to pro­vide much offensive spark this season. 
Center fielder Stanley bat­ted .362 last season with a team-high 29 stolen bases. 

pick" last June. The 
Twins' loss is Notre Dame's gain as Heilman has posted an impressive 28-7 record to go along with 12 saves during his Notre Dame career. 
Notre Dame is one of two "northern" teams listed among USA Today's presea­son top 25, with Nebraska ranked seventh. 
Notre Dame opens its 2001 season by returning to the site of its last game in 2000, as the Irish will participate in the National Bank of Commerce Classic at Mississippi State's Dudy Noble Field, on Feb. 17-18. Notre Dame will face the University of New Orleans on Feb. 17 at 10 a.m. before tan­gling with MSU-which is ranked 17th in the USA Today poll-in a pair of 1 p.m. games on the 17th and 18th. 
************************** 
* * 
* * 
Join the Notre Dame French Club fa-the French film ** * * 
* *
* * 
! Rosetta :
* * 
* Pal mD'or and Best Actress * ; Cannes Fil mfestival 1999 ; 
* Movie is In French with English Sul>tltl es so al I are welcome! 
* * * 
;* Sunday, January 28 !* * 2PM * 
* * 
; Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art ! 
* Admission is FREE * 
* *
* * 
* Sponsored by Le Cercle Francais, The Nanovic Institute, ISLA, and the 
*

* Department of Rorrance Languages 
* * *
* *
************************** 
•..--_ .., .~·-·. ;.·~ "';". :;_,_.. :r _.--~ ~'!.--..., ..... -~~--,~>·~:_,,-~-: -_'!'-.,:-: •··<'_~ ·t
.: 

.· ;,:',;.··;· ..·.summer Employment:~.:1
~-!,-=~---· ' ·:·.-' : 
. G cier National Park 
Wolllen 

continued from page 24 
19 feet, 4 1/4 inches. By comparison, Williams covered the 60 meter hurdles in 
8.95 seconds and Jong jumped 19-1/2, 
"She will provide a good challenge," said Irish head coach Joe Piane. ''I'd like to think that on her best day Tameisha is a little better." 
Williams is also competing in the triple jump, where the Irish are counting on school record holder Jamie Volkmer to 
beat the Spartans' top ath­"[Williams] will provide a events and sprints in lete. Williams jumped 40-8 good challene. I'd like to order to beat the 1/4 last week, as compared Spartans. According to
think that on her best

to Volkmer's 39-10 3/4 Irish coach Joe Piane, 
effort. day Tameisha is a little Michigan State has an Volkmer is also entered better" extremely deep and tal­in the pole vault for the ented distance crew. first time since junior The Irish are hoping
Joe Piane

Natalie Hallett and fresh­for strong performances man Jill Vanweelden broke Irish head coach from Leanne Brady in tie bit this week," said Irish sprints coach John Millar. "She's already provisionally qualified in the 400 meters, so we're try­ing to qualify her in other events this week." 
Competing alongside Grow in the 200 meter dash are freshman Kristen Dodd and Ayesha Boyd. Both freshmen are coming off strong performances last week -Dodd took second in the 60 meter dash and third in the 200 meter dash and Boyd took fifth in the 400 meter dash. 
In order to beat the Spartans, Irish 
coaches feel they need 
to focus on getting 
points in the field 
Volkmer's school record in the pole vault last week. Volkmer, Hallet, Van\'Veeldcn and Bethany Wilson are all entered in tomorrow's com­petition. , 
Junior Liz Grow. fresh off her NCAA pro­visional qualifying performance in the 400 meter dash last week, will be running the 60 meter dash and the 200 meter dash. 
"We're trying to work on her speed a lit-
the 800 meters and 
Megan Johnson and Chrissy Kuenstcr in the mile. Kuenstcr and Jennifer Handley are expected to be competive with Spartan runners in the 3,000 meter run. 
"Michigan State has a very strong dis­tance group," said Irish head coach Joe Piane. "We're going to try to break even there." 

ERASMUS BOOKS 
-Used Books bought and sold 
•25 Categorie• ofBooks -25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock -Out-of-Print search service ·Appraisals large and small 

Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 
RECRUITING DATES: February 14 & 15, 2001 at Career and Placement Services. Japanese Language skills NOT required. Open to all majors. SIGN UPS NOW OPEN 


CE~TER FOR 



SOCIAL CONCE~NS 
·, -:-,: :-~,_.: 


VEHICLE TRAINING DATES .FOR· SPRING 2001 
The following dates are the ONLY dates vehicl~ training will ·be offered. No exceptions will be made. If you ·were trained Fall 
2000 you do not need to be retrained. Sunday.January 28 · Sunday February 4 
.T~9rsday F_ebruary 8 Wednesday February 14 ··sunday !'-'fareµ 4. 

All sessions will be at6:00 p:ril. in Roorii 1~4 at the CSC · 
• -~-'i 
-:--. . 
.,.•k • 
... (

REMINDERS: .. 
. ,·, . ~'. 

All groups must submit NEW request forms for second 
. 1~· . ... . 


·semester scheduling~·· ·. .Requests must have accurate times and name(s) 
of driver(s) to b~;3ccepted.· (group lead¢r . name insuftiderit"ifnot actua:Hy•drivi~g) ·. ~t Direct Questioris·to: cssvans@nd.ed~·,.. · ··::-.• / 
. . :. . .,. . -­
-' 



Friday, January 25, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
Croker. Davey, who is nursing a tender hamstring, finished first in
Men 
the 60 meters last weekend. continued from page 24 Croker ran an effective leg in the -----------4x400 meter relay. plucc time of 21.74 in the 200 In the 500 meters, sophomore met.or dash was more than a sec-Nick Setta, on loan from the foot­ond quicker than the 22.76 posted ball team, will get a tinaJly get a by Michigan State's Terry Jenkins race. Last week, Sett.a missed first IIL'il weekend. place in the event by less than .3 Jenkins should provide a chat-seconds while coming out of the lnnge for the Irish in the 60 met.er slow heat. Sett.a will be joined in hurdles. Jiis seventh-place time of the event by junior Mike Mansour, 
8.41 seconds is just ahead of Irish who took third last week in a time freshman Mark Barber's fourth-ofl:05.23. plar,c time of8.58 last wedc. The Irish boast a strong core of 
The high jump proved to be a distance runners. In the 800 strong event for the Irish last meters, senior Nate Andrulonis week as well. Andrew Cooper finished second in a time of 1 took second with a career-best minute, 55.41 seconds. In the mile leap of 6-9, while Quill Redwine run, junior Pat Conway broke follownd Cooper with a jump of 6-away from the pack in the final 
7. 300 meters to win in a time of 
Michigan State junior Jeff Kus 4:14.51. placnd eighth at the Hod Simmons The 3,000 meter event will be meet wiih a jump of6-6. strengthened by the return of 
"I think if our jumpers jump as Hyan Shay, who competed in the well as they can. we can take Lhe mile run last week. Shay qualified tnp two spots in that event," said for the Olympic Trials last year in Winsor of the high jump. the 10,000 meters and is better 
The Irish will be very strong in suited for the longer events. the middle distance events. Senior "If them was a 10,000 meter Terry Wray and freshman James race indoors, we'd run him in Hrncken N who both broke 50 that," said Irish head coach Joe seconds in the 400 last week N Piano. will be joined by senior Travis The meet kicks off at 7 p.m. on Davey and junior William "Red" the Meyo track. 



Looking for a Lrealive __ArtLl to 
work Thursday Nights for the View1>oin+ Section of The Observer 
Call Chad Maestas @ 243-1542 for more info. 
SUMMER INTERNSHIP OPPORTUNITIES 
at aWORLD-CLASS/GOVERN~NT RESEARCH FACILITY 
The Environmental Research Institute, a joint activity of Notre Dame and Argonne National Laboratory, in collaboration with the Center for Environmental Science and Technology (CEST), will award up to 2 summer internships at Argonne National Laboratory for 2001 with a follow-up research appointment on campus in the Fall. Stipend, room and board are provided for the l0-week program at Argonne. 
Student applicants should have research interests in an environmentally-related discipline (m field of study) concerned with or likely to contribute to the understanding, assessment, or improvement of the environment. Applicants must be US citizens or permanent residents, enro!led at Notre Dame, have completed their Junior Year by May 2001, and be registered to return in the Fall of2001. 
For more details, contact Donna Fecher in the Center for Environmental Science and Technology: 152A Fitzpatrick Hall, 631-8376. Applicants will be required to complete an application. 
Deadline is February 23, 2001. 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 










Belles go for the sweep against Britons 
By KATIE McVOY 
Assiscant Sports Editor 
[f Wednesday night's game read like a book, then the Belles are looking for a new chapter as they face off against the Britons of Albion College Saturday at Angela Athletic Facility. 
A 64-48 loss to Kalamazoo on Wednesday added yet another loss to an already long losing skid, upping the total to six. The Kalamazoo loss wrapped up the first round of MIAA play that left Saint Mary's with a 1-6 record in the league. 
"I think as we start out we want to get off on the right foot," head coach Suzanne Smith said. "Obviously we don't want to fall to the bottom of the conference." 
Saturday's game against Albion will hopefully open a new chapter in the MIAA for Saint Mary's. Albion is the only team behind Saint Mary's in the MIM with an 0-7 record. 
The last time these two teams met, the Belles played well, beating the Britons 61-52. That was their last win before this six game losing streak. 
"Our defense did a real nice job [against Albion]," Smith said. "They had an outstanding guard and post player that were excellent. Fortunately in that game we had our offense." 
The offense the Belles had the last time they played the Britons has been noticeably lacking recently. Saint Mary's has scored an average of 49 points per game in the last six games, a big difference from the 80 point games they had early this season, and even the 61 point game they had the last time Albion was the opponent. 

CHRISTINE KAAVThe Observer 
Sophomore guard Shaun Russel drives around a Kalamzoo defender during Saint Mary's 64-48 loss last night. 
Getting some team spirit is the Belles will look to try to No. 1 on Smith's list. contain Albion with a zone 
"We need to get some chem­defense that worked well in the istry together," she said. "I teams' last meeting. think we need to get some con­"Our zone worked very well sistency with our players and against them," Smith said. our rotations so they go in the "We'll go to that." 
game  and  Except for  
know  who  Matha,  the  
they're  play­ "We need to get some  Saint Mary's  
ing. We shouldn't be worried with  chemistry together. I think we need to get  women have returned to health. With  
learning  new  some consistency with  a  healthy  
things, we should be fine tuning."  our player and our rotations. ,,  team and MIAA rank­ings to look  
The starting  at, the Belles  
rotation is set, at least until Kristen Matha  Suzanne Smith Belles head coach  are looking for a win. "I think just  
recovers from  because  we  

her hip flexor muscle injury. know we've beaten them before Ann Blair and Kelly Roberts we know what to expect," will start off as the post players, Smith said. "We think we can joined by Mary Campione, Katie win." Christiansen and Julie Norman. Action kicks off Saturday at 3 
Once they are on the floor_. p.m. at Angela. 



JUNIORS!!! 

It's not too late to register for 
Junior Parents Weekend!! 
If you didn't receive an application or still need to register, go to the Student Activities Office 315 LaFortune 
or email JPW@nd.edu with Questions or Comments. 
Friday, January 25, 2001 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS 
FENCING 

Irish kick off 2001 Midwest season 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame fencing team travels to Northwestern this weekend for matches against five Midwest rivals and a chance to size up the compe­
tition  before  the  Midwest  
Regionals in March.  
"Especially  for  Midwest  

Regionals we have to be on our toes," sophomore sabrewoman Natalia Mazur said. "We have to know how they fence and what to expect because this is the region we have to qualify from for NCAAs. We really need to observe them and fence as well as we possibly can." 
The men's team won't have a chance to learn much 

this weekend. "We have to know how said. "I don't 
The schools they fence and what to think it will be they are fenc­as difficult this 
expect because this is the 

ing will pro­weekend. 
vide little chal­region we have to qualify Northwestern lenge to one of from for NCAAs '' will be a tough the top men's team though." teams in the "We need to 
Natalia Mazur 

country. Notre maintain our Dame defeated sophomore sabrewoman focus. That 
national-title favorite St. 
John's last weekend. 
"Last week was probably our toughest meet of the year," junior sabreman Gabor Szelle said. "This week we definitely go into this tournament as favorites." 
Most of the top starters for the men's side will take most of the weekend off as reserve fencers will get a chance to fence a few bouts. 
"I think we are going to try to put in as many fencers as we can." Szelle said. "Even with the guys who didn't compete last week, we can do well. We don't necessarily need the front runners to beat these guys." 
The women, however, will 
face a stiff challenge from one 
of their fiercest rivals: the 
Northwestern Wildcats. 
La.st year Northwestern beat 
the women at both the regular 
season dual meet and the 
Midwest Fencing Conference 
Championships. 
"I am absolutely looking for 
revenge," sophomore epeeist 
Anna Carnick said. "It was a 
tight match last year. They 

just great to hear th~m and get a lot of support from our 
team." 

The irish will need Carnick to resume her All-American form from last year if they hope to regain the top spot in the Midwest. Last week in New York, Carnick stumped to a 4-7 record while recovering from an illness. 
"I am still a little shaky but I am feeling more confident," Carnick said "It's a nearby neat and I think the·first meet of the season is always a little more intimidating." 
Most of the women's team is 
looking to rebound from last 
weekend in New York as only 
four women posted records 
better than .500.in New York. 
"I think we might have to 
focus a little 
more," Mazur 
was the prob­

lem last week­end," Carnick said. "There were some good bouts. I think a lot of the girls fenced well, some girls even had some of their best days of the last two years but we couldn't maintain our focus." 
Two freshmen had stellar opening weekends for the Irish, however. Destanie Milo and Jessie Filkins went 7-1 and 7 -3 respectively in the sabre debut. 
Foil captain Liza Boutsikaris led foilist with a 8-4 record while Meagan Call kept up her All-American form with a 7 -4 record. 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 


No. 13 Irish head to Orlando 
By STEVE KEPPEL 
Sports W ricer 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team travels to Orlando this weekend to participate in the adidas Classic. 
T h e 1 3 t h ­ranked Irish hope to rebound this week­end after a toss loss to the fourth­r an k e d D u k e Bluedevils to open the sea­son on Jan. 21. 
The match was highlighted by the play of All-American Michelle Dasso, who defeat­ed the No. 2 player in the country -Duke freshman Ansley Cargill. Dasso took down the French and U.S. open participant in two sets 6-2, 6-3. 
Other singles winners for 
the Irish included junior 
Nina Vaughan and senior 
Kimberly Guy who won in 
three sets. 
Despite the loss last week­
end the Irish women look to 
have a promising season. 
The team returns seven of 
nine monogram winners and 
only lose one starter from 
last year's 23-7 team. 

Two time all-American 
and currently third-ranked 
singles player Dasso looks to 
taking up right where she 
left off last fall. 

"The fall results definitely 
help my confidence going 
into January because I'm 

ever we play in dual match­es, I'll be able to beat at No. 1 singles," 
"We had a good season last year and with most pea-
The Universi1y of Notre Dame Department of Mu,i 
"How to Listen to a Bach Fugue" 

A Lecture/Recital by 
Ethan Raimo Professor of Music University of Notre Dame 
pie returning and three treshman, hopefully we'll be able to progres;;i and pick up where we left off last year," head coach Jay Louderback said. 
Louderback, who is in his 
12th year coaching 
women's tennis, has lead 
the Irish to five NCAA 
appearances and has 
coached four all-Americans 
in his time at Notre Dame. 
Louderback will look to 
improve his record even 
more this season as he 
returns with a very compet­
itive team. 
"It has been exciting to 
have All-Americans and make the NCAA tourna­ment," says Louderback, who is entering his ninth season in charge of the Irish program. "I'd like to see the program continue to improve and to be competi­tive in NCAA play." 
Returning to the singles lineup for the Irish are 


Attn: Seniors! 
juniors Lindsay Green. Nina Vaughan and Becky Varnum as well as promising fresh­man Caylan Leslie. 
Leslie, who was highly recruited out of high school in California, had a great fall season and is expected to cont,ibutc quite a lot to the team. 
Leslie is joined by Emily Neighbours and Alicia Salas. two other talented freshman who made waves this fall by playing surprisingly well despite their inexperience. Salas and Neighbours hope to help the team out by grabbing some wins when­ever they get the chance. 
"We are really excited about all three freshmen," said coach Louderback. "We are figuring that at least one will be playing doubles and they'll have a shot in singles as well. All three will get even better and be very good for us for the next four years." 

much mo re prepa red and 1-41~,a;,.;,1,,,.....;...._9_m_,ph_ics,_i.;:'nc.:....­
Signature Graphics, Inc. Is the nation's largest and fastest growing graphic design, manufacturing and installation firm specializing in fleet media advertising. 
• ..;;:/;,ilk,,.

--M~~,ruavtt:,J 
0 INFO SESSION 

Thursday, February 22, 6-8 p.m. Representatives will be on hand to discuss all aspects of a career in SALES. 
(Refreshments will be served) 
0 INTERVIEWS 
Friday, February 23 
Please contact the Notre Dame Career Center to sign up for an interview. 
Questions? 
Contact Jennifer Williamson at: 
219-926-4994 / 800-356-3235 
jwilliamson@signaturegraph.com 

healthier than last year," www.signaturegraph.com said Dasso. "I feel like who-,.;:::;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;= 

Student Special Monday Only 


r--------------------, r--------------------,
I $15 : : $10 : 
I I I I 
: Women's Haircut : : Men's Haircut : 
I I I I 
1 and Style , , and Style J,
L--------------------J L ____________________ 1357 N. Ironwood Rd. 


289-5888 

RII Seruices are performed by 
Hairstylists in Training Ualid only w / Julie or Lisa 
have a fairly deep team but I think we all know what to 

2:00 pm, Sunday, January 28, 2001 
expect. We have a lot of new starters who are up for a big 

Hesburgh Library Faculty Lounge 
weekend." Before last year, Notre Dame 

Free and open to the public. was clearly the top dog in 
Formoreinformation,call631·6201 orvisitwww.nd.edu/-congoers. Midwest women· s fencing. I-;,::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;; 




Advanced Jazz Dance 
Northwestern, however, took great pride in knocking the Irish off as its entire team cheered every Wildcat touch in Evansville last year. 
Although the meet is in Evansville again this year, Carnick expects lots of Irish support and doesn't anticipate the Wildcat spirit phasing her too much. 
"There were tons of Northwestern people cheering but the Notre Dame team does a really good job," the All­American said. "All the fencers and staff and a couple boyfriends and girlfriends who drove down to see us as well. It 

Summer Positions Available: 
Notre Dame Athletic Department Sports Camp Office 40 Hours/Week Please Call: 631-8788 

Information Meeting 
Sunday, January 28 • 1 :30prn 
RSRC Activity Rm. 
Classes will meet: Thursdays • 7:45 -9:00pm Saturdays • 1:30 -3:00pm Rolfs Sports-Recreation Center Act. Rm 2 

ster in advance at Rec 
Class fee is $39.00 begin Monday, January 29 s begin Thursday, Febr Space is limited 



Being back to school already got you down? 
SUB movies will help get your mind off the books this weekend! 
Meet the Parents in 101 DeBartolo tonight and tomorrow night. Come on over to 155 DeBartolo for The Wall this Friday night. And make sure you come see Tommy on Saturday night. Movie times 8:00 & 10:30 on Friday and Saturday. 
www.nd.edu/-sub 

Friday, January 25, 200 I 
The Observer . TODAY page 23 
FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY 

IF I AM B.ECTl:t> STUDENT ­
BODY PRE.sIOENT, I PROMISE TO IIMNG THE POWBI. 
BAO: TO THE 
PEOPLE 

Fox TROT 
:JASON, I TOLD 

I'U.. REVAMP THE a.ct 
UPDATE SAFEMoa 
CRE.4TE STVt>ENT. FACULTY FORUMSI 
I PROMUlE... 

BILL AMEND 
..­
J 
TYLER
THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 


CROSSWORD 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
ACROSS  31 Like Tiisit  55 Language  
1 Body builder? 10 Lose it 15 It flies close to the ground  cheese 33 Pother 35 Record company's  linked to the Y2K problem 56 One shot a lot 58 Promenade  
16 like some dodderers 17 Replacing 18 Car starter? 19 They may be boring  receipt 36 Not wilting, perhaps 40 Painter Botticelli 44 Hurdler's assignment  59 Irving title character 60 Like some marshes 61 Attire symbolizing boyhood  
20 Thought  45 Jersey, e.g.  
22 Frank's second ex 23 Installment plans? 24 It's past due 25 Picker's need 27 Words before goal or course  47 Polyp production 48 Invoice abbr. 49 Tries to obtain anew 51 Chemical suffix 52 Charleston  DOWN 1 Fictional password user 2 Voyager, e.g. 3 Not brewed 4 Clears 5 Dedicated work  
28 Striking end 29 Pay  institution 54 See 23-Down  6 In _to the finish 7 Apple products  
8 Many keys  

9 Beat 
..,..+...+,,..+-,,,-1 10 "Mr. Mom" co-star and p others .,..+,-,+,e+.::-1 11 Ready to serve 
_,'"l'"'t:'t'-:T~:"1111111 
..;;..::..,1111.. 12 Herbal quaff ......._ ... 13 Tailor, often 
~...+..+:-t 14 Site of many a turnaround 21 Lays at one's door A 23 With 54-Across, ,.,.+.,,,+:D::-1 where India is 

I E 26 1980 Carly S O ~::+:::+:--:+....+,::+.E::+:::R..t Simon hit 
E R .......__._...._ 0 S S 28 Platter player 42 Visibly elated 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

Puzzle by Joe DIPletro 30 One standing in 
a strike zone? 32 Apple products 34 Goes berserk 36 Rolling freight 
transporter 37 Really stress, as 
a point 38 1976 raid site 39 Secure, in a 
way 
41 53-Oown fighter 

43 Former Energy 50 "In & Our star, Secretary Hazel 1997 et a!. 
53 Winter woe 46 Tube 
54 Floating, perhaps49 Three-time 

N.B.A. Coach of 57 Charlemagne, the Year e.g.: Abbr. 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95e per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
HOROSCOPE 
FRIDAY, JANUARY 26, 2001 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Wayne Gretzky, Anita Baker, Paul Newman, Eddie Van Halen, Scott Glenn, Angela Davis, Jules Peiffer, Ellen DeGeneres, Andrew Ridgeley, Ellen DeGeneres 
Happy Birthday: Your vision will be broad this year. You can offer great suggestions, but don't waste your time if others don't want to follow your lead. Go it 
· alone if necessary and you'll be the one who accomplishes the most. Overdoing it can be your greatest downfall. Know your limits, know when to say no, and do for yourself first. Your num­bers: 4, 17, 19, 23, 28, 35 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Don't let anyone talk y_ou into doing things that you d prefer not to do. You need to please yourself for a change instead of everyone else. It's time to follow your own beliefs and not some­one else's. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You are beginning to see things through different eyes. Your awareness is growing, and your motives are changing. Don't be afraid to follow a new direction. You must take control of your future. 0000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Financial failures are likely if you expanded your interests too quickly. Look into ways of help­ing children or relatives solve their problems without donating your own funds. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
You will have regrets if you allow a dispute to get out of hand. Be cautious how you handle both your business and emotional partnerships. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Look into career opportunities that will lead to a higner earning potential. You need to use your ingenuity if 
Birthday Baby: You have a fascinating way of looking at life. You are ingenious, outgoing and forever trying to help others. You have a great desire to do something worthwhile. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialaslcom, astromate.com.} 
Cl 2001 Uniwnal I'""" Syndicate 
EUGENIA LAST 
you want to get ahead. Believe in yourself and so will others. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 221: 
Words of love will be dancing through your head. Get out with that special person in your life. You need to spend time enjoying the finer things in life. 0000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Uncertainties on the home front should not be cause for alarm. A move is evident, and the prob­lems that exist will be eliminated. Just bide your time and let things unfold as they may. 0000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Oear up that overdue correspon­dence. Don't get intimate with colleagues or involved in gossip at work. Pleasure trips will break your budget. Be prepared to make cutbacks. 00 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You would be wise not to be tempted to lake part in joint financial ventures. You may have difficulties with your stomach if you overindulge or eat spicy 
foods.000 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 
19): Your emotions are likely to take over today. It is best to work by yourself. Don't let anyone goad you into a debate. You real­ly need your peace and quiet. 
000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Making changes to your home, particularly in your rec room or home-entertainment center, will help ensure that yolll' family will spend more time together. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your need to. interact with others can be satisfied if you sign up to help worthy organizations. You have a knack for putting things together well, and for paying close attention to small but im­portant details. Your services will be valued. 000 

.: .; .. ;.. --.. --.... -.;.. -.-----... ------·--_.--... --. -. -. . -_._.._:,._-_. 

Looking for the rebound 
After a tough 9-0 loss to Michigan earlier in the week, Notre Dame's hockey team looks to bounce back with a pair of games at Yale this weekend. 









PORTS 
page 18 

~HE 
page 24 vnSERVER 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 


Surging Notre Dame set to play in George's town 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Associate Sports Editor 
The last time the Irish played in the MCI Center, it was Senior Day 2000, and the Irish humiliated the Hoyas on their homecourt 77-54. Everything went right from the Irish, from 54 percent shooting to a 51-29 advantage on the boards. 
Nobody's expecting Saturday's rematch to be as one-sided. 
"We know because of what happened last year," said senior point guard Martin Ingelsby, "that it's going to be a big battle going down there." 
Flash back to March 4, 2000. 
A season ago, a Matt Doherty-coached Irish squad had their backs against the wall after a two­point loss to Syracuse, and they were anxious to bolster fading hopes of March Madness by beating Georgetown. The Irish found a hobbling Hoyas team with low morale playing in front 

No. 10 Georgetown (17-1, three-game winning streak Wilson scored 18 points on Brey said Thursday. "All of 
of a half-empty MCI Center, 5-1 Big East) is on top of the capped off by a 14-poi!lt vic­his 21st birthday to lead the a sudden, we're going to and the Hoyas quickly fold­West Division in the Big tory over No. 11 Syracuse. Georgetown attack. have a sellout; it's for aed before Notre Dame's bal­East, the only blemish on its The Hoyas are coming off "The state of both pro­share of first place. I think anced attack. 

season a 7 0-66 loss to of a 79-62 victory over grams since last year's our team is excited because 
Fast forward to late 

Pittsburgh. Notre Dame UNLV Thursday night. game is very different,"
January 2001. 

(12-5, 4-2) is surging on a Reserve center Wesley Notre Dame coach Mike see B-BALL/ page I 9 

MEN'S TRACK AND FIELD 
Spartans vault into Loftus to take on Irish track team 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Assistant Sports Editor 

Looking to remain undefeated. the Irish men's track and field team takes to the track for the second time this season when they host Michigan State tonight at Loftus. 
The Irish are coming off a commanding vic­tory over Western Michigan and Ball State last Friday night. 
The Spartans, mean­while, travel down from East Lansing on the heels of a strong 


showing at the Red Gilbert Simmons Invitational in Ann Arbor last weekend. 
"Michigan State is a BigTen school, so nat­urally they have some great athletes," said sprints coach John Millar. 
Pole vaulter Paul Terek heads a strong Spartan attack. The senior came back from a redshirt year in style in Ann Arbor, breaking his school record with an NCAA provisionally qualifying vault of 17-feet, 8 inches. 
The strong Spartan pole vault attack does not end with Terek. Qassmate Matt Deering finished second to Terek last weekend with a personal-best vault of 17-feet. 
Irish vaulters Nathan Cahill and Josh 
Heck, who vaulted 15-6 and 15 feet last 
Friday, will have their hands full 
"I don't know that our guys can catch them," said jumps coach Scott Wmsor. 'We might need to make up those points in other areas." 
Where the Irish should hold a strong advantage is in the sprints. Sophomore Tom Gilbert is coming off a dominating perfor­mance in last week's meet. Gilbert's first-
see MEN/page 21 


WOMEN'S TRACK AND FIELD 
Head-to-head matchups crucial to Irish victory 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 

Sure, Notre Dame sprinter Tameisha King has a ton of talent. But so far this season, the sopho­more All-American has yet to com­
pete against someone as good as Michigan State's Sherita Williams. 
When the Spartans enter the Loftus Sports Complex today to 


take on the Irish, King King and the rest of the Irish will face an early-season test to show how well they can compete against high level competition. 
At iast week's triangular meet against Western Michigan and Ball State, King cruised to wins in the 60 meter dash, the 60 meter hur­dles and the long jump. Her clos­est competition came from team­mate Kristen Dodd, who was only three-hundreths of a second 
behind King in he 60 meter dash. 

But Williams also had a strong showing last week. At the six-team Red Simmons Invitational, the sophomore collected a pair of wins in the long jump and triple jump and added a third place finish in the 60 meter dash. 
The two athletes have compara­ble performances this season. King, who will be competing against Williams in the 60 meter 
hurdles and the long jump, sprint­ed 8.63 in the hurdles and jumped 
see WOMEN/page 20 
Women's Swimming Track and Field 
vs. Yale vs. Michigan vs. Michigan State , 
Saturday, 4 p.m. 
SPORTS 
Today, 4 p.m. Today, 6 p.m. ~ --.; :it~ at Georgcrown
M''

ATA ~f Sunday, noon 
• Men's Swimming ar addida.s Classic at Ohio State 
vs. Wisconsin-Milwaukee 1. ').
GLANCE ~) Today -Sunday ri' Saturday, 6 p.m. 
"o'
Today, 4 p.m. 






