
Ideas to toss around 
Bookstore Round-up 
Monday
Get offthe couch and head outside. Better yet, 
Nylon Strokers and Slappy's All-Stars take 
take the couch with you. Check out Scene's 
home Bookstore honors. Check out who else 
look at fun quad activities. 
came out on top. 
APRIL 30, 
Scene . pages 12-13 
Bookstore XXX . Insert 
2001 



• 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 131 HTTP:!/OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
New Jersey teens donate 'like champions' 
High school classroom wins trip to Notre Dame through charity clothing drive 

By KERRY SMITH News Writer 

Michael Panarello was fast Thursday. 
Donning his Oakcrest High track and field uniform, he placed in the long jump and finished with a quick enough time in the 100-meter dash to earn four varsity points for his New Jersey high school team. 
Those four points were good enough to give his team the edge and the win. 
"I scored four points and we won the meet by three." Panarello said with pride. 
But Panarello wasn't fast enough for several of his schoolmates. The senior's track and field endeavors were hold­ing up 24 of his classmates' and two teachers' weekend plans -a whirlwhind road trip to Notre Dame. 
While Panarello's 100-meter race was over in seconds, his and his classmates' trip lasted about 65 hours. But the plans for it started months ago. 
Competing for charity 

It all started in the fall when seniors Tara Penman and Kristen Schlachter proposed a project for their Social Studies seminar class. They wanted to organize a clothing drive to benefit less fortunate Africans through the Dakar World Peace Academy in Senegal. 
They proposed a plan to make the drive a contest between Oakcrest's homerooms and as incentive, let the win­ning class create its own day off. It was a tempting plan sure to create some competition, but Penman had no idea what a success the drive would be. 
"The drive went so well," Penman said. "Between all the homerooms we raised 1,500 items of clothing to send to Dakar. It took a lot of work but it was worth it." 
In the end, the drive raised more than 9,000 items of cloth­ing for the Academy. 
That work was made a lot easier by the idea of one man -health teacher Jack Bottinger. 

The man with a plan 

As the clothing drive got underway and donations were steady but not stellar, Bottinger had an idea. What if his home­room class donated enough clothes to win the contest and then designed its day off 
around Notre Dame's Blue­Gold football game? A three­day 1,446-mile round trip wasn't exactly what Penman had envisioned when she pro­posed the idea, but she and her classmates weren't surprised. 
"Mr. Bottinger is a complete and total ND fanatic," Penman said. 
Fellow senior Annita Bailey agreed. 
"He's in his room playing the Notre Dame Fight Song all the time," Bailey said. "Early in the morning he's got it on every single day." 
Senior Matt Pieper knew how much the trip meant to Bottinger. 
"He's always talking about Notre Dame. And now he final­ly gets to take us," Pieper said. 
Bottinger, a long-time Notre Dame fan who has been out to Notre Dame several times, wanted to share the experience with his students and found an outlet to do it with the Dakar clothing drive contest. 
"Notre Dame is really some­thing special,"Bottinger said. "You walk into the Stadium and the yellow jackets attack you. 'Welcome to Notre Dame,' they 
see VISIT/page 4 


PLAY TIME 
Parietals fight sends students camping 
and past 2 a.m. on Fridays and Saturdays. 
Organizers. including sopho­mores Graham and Seth Whetzel and junior Michael Pfaff, are optimistic about a favorable turnout for tonight's campout. 
"By coming out in here in full numbers, hopefully hall rectors and administrators will take notice that [the pari­etals measure] is something that's important to students," Graham said. 
Last week, CLC members voted 10-6 in favor of pushing the visiting hours back to mid­night. The measure fell a vote short of the majority needed for passage. Voting on the res­olution was sharply divided; dissenting votes came from rectors and the lone adminis­trator on th·e council, Bill Kirk, assistant vice president for student affairs. 
The CLC approved a propos­al that called for parietals to 
see PARIETALS/page 6 

Malloy Hall due next year 
Special to The Observer 
The new theology/philoso­phy building under construc­tion at the University is being underwritten by Donald Keough, chairman emeritus of t h e Univer• sity's Board of Trustees, and will be called Edward 
A. Malloy Hall in honor of N o tr e Dame's president. who also is a full professor of theology. 
Malloy Hall is a 67 ,000­square-feet office building for faculty and graduate students 

see MALLOY/page 6 


ByJASON McFARLEY News Editor 
Paul Graham knows demonstrations can be a pow­erful tool. And he's hoping this one will be. 
Graham and two other Notre Dame students are ral­lying student support for a campus-wide campout to take place on South Quad tonight. The event comes in response to Campus Life Council's April 23 defeat of a resolution that would extend parietals from midnight to 1 a.m during the week. 
"I think it's about time that we get together and say. 'Hey, we disapprove of this," Graham said of parietals, the policy regulating visiting hours between members of the opposite sex. 
The hours currently prohibit the presence by the opposite sex in residence hall rooms after midnight on weekdays 

Monday, April 30, 2001 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Perpetual identity 
The other day when I walked through La.Fortune, I passed by the wall of fame and glanced up at the plaques listing all the names of different student leaders from Notre Dame's past. On each plaque the little brass plate for the 2000­01 school year has been removed so the latest name can be added to the wall. 
And then I saw the Observer Editor plaque and it sort of hit me right then. For as long as those plaques hang in La.Fortune I will be remembered as the Editor of The Observer. My identity as Editor will be sealed in brass on the wall ofthe student center. 

But my identity as Editor has been a permanent part of me since I was elected in Editor in Chief March 2000. Everything I have done has notjust been done by Mike Connolly but by Mike Connolly, Editor ofThe Observer. 
My identity is permanent. I cannot choose to act as Mike Connolly, Editor and at other times, as Mike Connolly, Notre Dame junior. 
All my identities are a part ofme at all times. I am Editor of The Observer. I am a Notre Dame stu­dent. I am Irish Catholic. I am the son of Mike and Rochelle Connolly. I am a collection of many identi­ties and all of those identities are permanently part ofme. 
Every one ofmy actions stems from my past experiences and every one of my actions reflects on my identities -for better or worse. IfI do something stupid in my free time, it reflects poorly not only on Mike Connolly, American studies major, but on all ofmy identities. 
So tonight, when I camp out on the quad with other Notre Dame students, I cannot claim to protest the actions of rectors and administrators solely as Mike Connolly, resident of Dillon 281. My entire identity will be on the quad and my actions will reflect on all my identities. 
Student body president Brooke Norton and vice president Brian Moscona apparently do not share my view. Last night. Norton told The Observer that she and Moscona would attend tonight's sleepout to protest parietals -but not as student govern­ment officials. This is impossible. As student lead­ers, they cannot shirk their identities. 
Norton and Moscona are always the president and vice president of the student body. They won the students' trust and earned the right to serve as president and vice president. They earned a new identity -one that cannot be casually shrugged off. 
Whether they are passing resolutions in student senate, taking notes in government class, eating a cheeseburger in Reckers or protesting the CLC on South Quad, they are the elected leaders of the stu• dent body. 
With those identities, also comes greater risk. If they choose to take part in the protest, they may anger and alienate administrators. This may make it more difficult for them to accomplish other stu­dent goals. But that comes with their identity and the choices they make. 
I hope Brooke and Brian attend the protest tonight. I hope thousands of students sleep on the quads tonight. I hope there are dining hall work· ers, sociology majors, lacrosse players, Phish fans, Farley girls and every other type of Notre Dame student. But ifyou come, be ready to bring all your identities and accept all the consequences -good or bad -for your actions. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column 
are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene Christine Kraly C. Spencer Beggs Jason McFarley Graphics 
Laura Rompf Jose Cuellar 
Geoff Brodie 

Lab Tech 
Sports Kylie Carter 
Brian Kessler 
Viewpoint 
Lori Lewalski 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a mem~r of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS  
Monday  Tuesday  Wednesday  Thursday  
. Poetry: Sonia Gernes  . Workshop: "Women as  . Workshop: "Teaching the  . Concert: Saint Mary's  
and Orlando Menes, 7 p.m.,  Citizens in American  Humanities in the Art  College Women's Choir,  
Notre Dame Bookstore  Politics," Christina  Museum," 9 a.m. to 3:30  Saint Mary's-Notre Dame  
. Concert: Notre Dame  Wolbrecht, 9 a.m. to 3:30  p.m., McKenna Hall  Collegiate Choir, 7:30 p.m.,  
Brass Ensemble, 7:30 p.m ..  p.m.. McKenna Hall  . Meeting: Faculty Senate,  Little Theatre  
Band Building  . Film: "Life on Earth," 7  7 p.m., Room 202, McKenna  . Concert: Notre Dame  
and 9 p.m.• Montgomery  Hall  Symphony Orchestra, 8 p.m.,  
Theatre  Washington Hall  

Compiled from U-Wire reports


OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Protesters strengthen positions at Harvard 
CAMBRIDGE. Mass. 
now entering its ninth day, little 
Nearly 700 peaceful protesters progress was made Thursday. The armed with posters and noisemak­administration held to its line that ers crowded outside Mass. Hall at no negotiations would take place Harvard Thursday afternoon in the while Mass. Hall was occupied and largest rally in the Yard in six PSLM members held firm to their years, while inside the occupied decision to remain in the building building members of the indefinitely until granted a living Progressive Student Leader wage of at least $10.25 an hour for Movement (PSLM) continued their all University employees. second day of talks with administra­Universi-ty President Neil tors. Rudenstine issued a statement, pub­
The rally featured speeches from lished as an ad in Friday's Crimson, local politicians, Harvard workers . reiterating his "willingness" to meet and faculty members, and attracted met again with two University rep­with students "once the sit-in has an unprecedented media presence resentatives, the Rev. Dorothy ended." with all three major networks Austin, co-master of Lowell House, In addition, Rudenstine has invit­descending on the Yard to film sto• and J. Bryan Hehir. head of the ed Faculty members to a special ries for Thursday night's evening divinity school. meeting this afternoon to discuss news. Although the talks alone are a the situation. University spokesper­
Inside Mass. Hall, PSLM members major breakthrough in the sit-in, son Joe Wrinn said Thursday. 
MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY 
Rape remains under investigation 
EAST LANSING, Mich. 
A 19-year-old Michigan State University student told police she was raped on campus by two male friends. The student said she had been drinking and playing cards with the men at about 1:30 a.m. and had passed out. MSU police Detective Tony Willis said. When she woke up about three hours later, she was naked and the men were getting dressed, he said. Willis did not have any other information about the incident, which was reported Wednesday, but said it remains under investigation. Police have yet to contact the two men, he said. He said most sexual assaults on campus are instigated by someone the ·victim knows. "I would say 80 percent, and a large number involve alcohol," Willis said. Two other cases of rape have been report· ed on campus since January. Both of those cases involved alcohol. But Karyn Price, sexual assault coun­seling staff coordinator at The Listening Ear, said peo­ple need to be careful not to blame rape victims for the crime because they may have been drinking. 
GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY 

Albright to teach in fall 2001 
WASHINGTON 

Former Secretary of State Madeline Albright will return to the Georgetown University School of Foreign Service's faculty in fall 2001, and will begin teaching at least one class the following year. Albright, who taught at Georgetown from 1982 through 1993, will become the first Michael and Virginia Mortara Distinguished Professor of the Practice of Diplomacy. "It's hard to imagine a more positive development for the school," Dean of the Edmund Walsh School of Foreign Service Robert Gallucci said. "This is an extraordinary appointment." Gallucci said it has not been decided whether Albright will teach graduate or undergraduate classes after her initial year, and that next year she will be "intimately involved" in a variety of capacities, including speaking to students and research. "This has been a gleam in my eye for a number of years," Gallucci said. In a statement released Tuesday, Albright said she was excited about returning to Georgetown. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high tern ratures 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon.Monday, April 30. Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

Tuesda

--~~?--.·. 


FRONTS: 

Wedne~day 
~ 

~ •• •• •• •

COLD WARM STATTONARY 
__,,., 

®© . Dc:IJDCJD 
High L-Show••• R•ln T•alorma Flume• Snow 1oe Sunny Pt. CloLH!y Cloudy 
v,. Assooated Press 

Atlanta 76 56 Las Vegas 89 67 Portland 57 42 Baltimore 73 54 Memphis 82 63 Sacramento 80 53 
Boston 72 56 Milwaukee 74 60 St Louis 79 64
q,~,~cQQQ (f ~ ~ 
Chicago 78 63 New York 70 58 Tampa 76 65 
Showers T-storms Rain Fl,;,;ies S~~ /cs Sunny Pt. ClolJdy Cloudy 
Houston 81 65 Philadelphia 74 56 Wilmington 72 54 
V1.t Associated Pr8M GtaphlcsNBI 
page 3

Monday, April 30, 200 I The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
College Spring Day showcases campus for prospects 
By EMILY WELSH 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's hosted its annual Spring Day on Campus Sunday. giving prospective high school sophomores. juniors and college transfer students a chance to visit campus and learn about the school. 
The highlight event for both the prospective students and their parents were the panel dis­cussions. 
"The panel discussions give the students and parents an opportunity to ask questions they would not be able to ask or get answered in a viewbook," said freshman Jaclyn Thompson, a panelist with her mother. 
There were separate panels for prospective students and their parents to learn more about the school. 
The panel for the prospective students included representa­tives from student government, diversity board and class offi­cers. 
Many concerns from the prospects revolved around cam­pus involvement and the social life at Saint Mary's. Kristen Matha, student body vice presi­dent, explained the role of the existing student government bodies, such as the Board of Governance, Residence Hall Association and the Student Diversity Board. 

One prospective student ques­tioned the interaction between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
"We do have a lot of social activities with Notre Dame on the weekends, but you do not have to participate in them," said Colleen Collins. "BOG will bring movies to campus, and Flipside, a non-alcoholic social group that exists at SMC, ND and Holy Cross, holds events each weekend. There are plenty of social opportunities on this campus as well as with 



It's all the buzz 
Get your head together. Crop it, color it, curl it comb it, chunk it, crunch it. 
• 

m1a&MOXX 
HAIR STUDIO 
University Park Mall 
219.277.4427 
A student panelist gave similar response when a father asked the student/parent panel a ques­tion about how active the Campus Ministry is on campus. 
"Spiritual life on this campus is as much and as fulfilling as you choose to make it," said senior Alyson Leatherman. 
During the student/parent panel, much discussion arose about the benefits of an all women's college. Afterward. Jan Bordonaro, a mother of a prospective from Minneapolis, said, "The panel has 

Holy Cross and "The panel discussions opened my ND." give the students and mind to the 
Prospects benefits of an
parents an opportunity
were also all women's 
questioned the to ask questions they college. I was Catholic char­would not be able to ask hesitant before 
acter of Saint this but now I
or get answered in a
Mary's and am more open how non­viewbook. •• to the idea." C at ho l i cs At the con­would be clusion of the
Jaclyn Thompson
accepted. day, the fami­
freshman
"People did 

not impose on me their faith," said Akmaral Omarova, a non-Catholic student. "Campus Ministry will try to hook you up with a church of your faith in South Bend if you want to attend. I do believe that the campus helps you grow spiritu­ally no matter what your faith 
.
IS. " 
lies toured the 
campus and 

congregated at Angela Athletic Facility for an open house with administration and faculty. 
"The day has been very infor­mative, but a suggestion for next time would be to hold the panel discussions outside on such a beautiful as today," said Bordonaro. 
'Destiny' rally honors champions 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News Editor 
It was a familiar feeling in a different setting. 
In their last public appearance as a group, members of the Notre Dame women's basketball team celebrated their NCAA championship in front of more than 1,000 people. 
"We really appreciate the sup­port you've shown us all year," said All-American Ruth Riley at the community rally outside the College Football Hall of Fame in downtown South Bend. "We enjoy the atmosphere you've created for us around here." 
The event was billed as the "Team of Destiny" rally. and speakers alluded to the theme throughout the 30-minute cere­mony. 
"I think this was really a team of destiny," said head coach Muffet McGraw. "They had their eyes on St. Louis the whole time." 
On April 1, the team defeated Purdue University to win the national title in St. Louis. 
In the championship game and during the regular season, the team was an example of "poise under pressure," McGraw said. She noted season highlights, including wins against Georgia and Connecticut. 
Fans cheered speeches by McGraw and players, were part of a panoramic photo with the team outside the hall and even sang happy birthday to McGraw's son Murphy. 


Local politicians were also on 

hand to honor the team. 
County councilwoman Cindy 

Bodle presented the squad with 
the key to St. Joseph County. 
Later, city councilman Roland 
Kelly announced the South Bend 
Common Council's April 23 pas­
sage of two resolutions com­
mending the team. 
South Bend Mayor Steve 

Luecke praised the women for 
their courage and model exam­
ple. 
"Thanks for showing us how to 

work through adversity. Thanks 
for inspiring our young people," 
Luecke said. 
At Friday's rally, team mem­

bers offered advice to the crowd, 
much of which included young 
children. 
After asking the audience who wanted to play college basketball and who wanted to attend Notre Dame, senior guard lmani Dunbar told children to work hard and surround themselves with positive influences. 
"If it's music or basketball or whatever you want to do, we just want to encourage you to try your heart out, and we wish you guys all the best," Riley added. 
Since winning the champi­onship, the team has received much public praise. 
On April 6, a resolution to honor the team's title passed by unanimous consent in the U.S. Senate. Sens. Evan Bayh, D-Ind.. and Richard Lugar, R-lnd., spon­sored the measure. 
April 8, the community hailed the team at a public pep rally at the Joyce Center. 
The women traveled to Washington, D.C., on April 23 for a ceremony with President Bush at the White House. 
Luecke said he hoped the rally Friday would hold special mean­ing for the team. 
"I know that you've had a lot of honors this year, but I hope that what you'll carry with you is the adulation, the adoration of this community," he said. 

Monday, April 30, 2001 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Visit 
continued from page 1 
say. And when you're leaving, they shake your hand and ask you to come back. It really is something." 
It's something so special that Bottinger didn't have a hard time convincing his class that the trip was a good idea. 
"I proposed the idea to the class one day and the next day alone they brought in about 400 items of clothing," Bottinger said. "They were really excited 

accommodations and finaliz­ing the plans. 
With the paperwork done and the trip approved, only one thing stood in the way: money. The original prize of a single day off didn't include a trip midway across the coun­try or a weekend adventure. Extra money -and some serious fundraising -was a necessity. But before the class could even think about raising money for its trip, the orga­nizers of the clothing drive needed to raise enough 'funds to ship all the clothes to Senegal. And because the drive had been such a success 
that sum 


about it from the start."  "It's perfect. It gives us a  topped out at a b o u t  
In the end, Bottinger's freshman homeroom  great feeling to help someone and we get to do something fun. too ...  $2,000. T h a t daunting fig­ure plus the  
donated  weekend's  
about 1,500 items to the drive and won  Tara Penman Oakcrest High senior  cost of trans­portation, lodging, food  
the contest.  and  other  
With  the  basics didn't  
win in hand,  prove to  be  

the class, along with upper­hard to come by, however. classman organizers, began "Through Mr. Bottinger's preparations for the trip. Even efforts we got the whole· trip though the prize was awarded donated," Penman said. just to Bottinger's class, the Bottinger spread the word teacher filled the seats on the about the possibility of the trip left vacant by students trip and the donations came who could not go with those in. who were instrumental in Among the biggest donors planning the clothing drive. were the Downtown Athletic While it was easy to come to Club of New York.the group an agreement on the trip to that awards the Heisman Notre Dame, it was a long and Trophy, which gave $1,500 time-consuming effort to make and the Southern New Jersey it a reality. Alumni Club which gave $500. 
"When I mentioned it to the Heisman people, there was no
Working out the details 

question," Bottinger said.
In order to have their chosen "First they said they'd give us

day off to be a success, 

$1,000 and then in turned into
Bottinger and his students 

$1,500. Raising the money noneeded two things: permission problem. We knew if we gotand money. Luckily for them, the right people we could getneither was too much trouble. 
the money." 
After Bottinger's class won Not all the donations werethe trip it immediately applied large, though. 

to the school's Board of 
"My wife's uncle handed me
Education for permission. 

$100 as l walked out the door
Penman. who organized the 

Thursday. He told me to treatdrive, was also responsible for 
the kids," Bottinger said.
organizing the execution of "People were excited about

the prize. 

this trip." 
"Tara did all the legal 
With the approval in, thepaperwork for Board money raised and the plans

approval," Bottinger said. "It finalized, there was nothingtook a long time and she did a left to do but enjoy the week­great job." 

end.
Bottinger also spent count­less hours on the phone with people at the University, set­Hitting the road ting up tours, arranging for When Panarello finally fin­ished his 100-meter dash and raced on to the bus, Bottinger, along with fellow health teacher Alicia Scelso. 25 stu­dents and a bus driver, took off from Mays Landing, N.J. at 4 p.m. Thursday for an all­night drive. 
Armed with classic Irish videos, the class spent 13 hours on the bus en route to Notre Dame. 
With a jam-packed schedule that left little time for sleep, the excitement began when the students arrived Friday morning. 
After dropping their bags at the University's Sacred Heart Parish and resting for only a little while, the class took a campus tour and met with the Office of Admissions. Skipping a scheduled lunch at South Dining Hall for a nap, the class rested up for a long afternoon of football past and present. 
When Bottinger's students met with Irish football players and New Jersey natives Matt Lovecchio and Terrance Howard, the questions began to fly. And nothing was left unasked. 
"What did you get on your SATs?" 
"Are you going to finish your education or will you go to the NFL early?" 
"Where are the parties tonight?" What was answered, howev­er, was a different story. 
After meeting the players, the class took a tour of the locker room and Stadium. 
Singing the fight song and snapping pictures, teacher and students alike were awed by the tour. 
"Goosebumps, baby. goose­bumps," Bottinger said. 
After taking a glimpse of football's present, the class took a look at football's past at the College Football Hall of Fame before attending South Bend's ceremony for the women's basketball team at Gridiron Plaza. 
On Saturday. the class took in the atmosphere of a game­day on campus a:nd then attended the Blue-Gold game, before immediately boarding the bus for the long ride home. 
Despite the fun and excite­ment surrounding the trip, the students did not forget what brought them to Notre Dame in the first place. 
"We're really excited -it's such a great experience," Penman said. "It's perfect. It gives us a great feeling to help someone and we get to do something fun. too." 
Attention Current Freshmen! Take the Class of2004Council Office Hours Attendance Desirability Assessment 
1. 
Do you want to voice your brilliance? 

2. 
Are you curious about next year? 

3. 
Do you want to hang with really friendly people? 


• If you answered "yes" to 1 of these questions, you REALLY want to go to the office hours. 
¦ 
If you answered "yes" to 2 of these questions, you REALLY REALLY want to go to office hours. 

¦ 
If you answered "yes" to a// 3 of these questions ... WOW. You have NO IDEA how much you would LOVE office hours. 


• If you answered "no" to all3, you still want to go. 
Class of 2004 Council Office Hours 
• 
Meet next year's executive council 

• 
Voice your questions, comments, concerns, and ideas 

• 
Buy this year's class t-shirt if you have not already 

done so ($10) 


• 
Score some free food (before it's gone) 


Wednesday, May 2 9:00 PM-11:00 PM Dooley Room-1st Floor of La Fortune 
Sponsored by the Class of2004 
The Of-f-1ce -fo~ S-fuden:fs w,..th 'Disabilities is -fakinq applicedioHS -fo~ the -fo//ow;nq positions fo~ -fe,J/ 2001: 
Drivers, On-Campus Cart Transportation 3 -12 hours a week. Provide rides to class and residences halls for students with temporary injuries. 
Service operates on class schedule. Safety training required. 
On-Campus Cart Transportation Student Coordinator 12 hours a week. Supervises drivers and develops daily ride schedules. Safety training required. 
Textbook Recorder Flexible hours. Tape record textbooks and other class materials for students with visual impairments and dyslexia. 
Courier Flexible hours, 3 to 5 a week. Make deliveries and pick ups for the office oftime sensitive material. 
Ifyou are interested in any ofthese positions please stop by the Office at 109 Badin Hall. Ifyou have questions please call 631-7157. 

ATI 


Monday, April 30, 200 I COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
China allows U.S. inspection: China has decided to let U.S. personnel inspect a Navy spy plane at the military airport in southern China where it landed after colliding with a Chinese fighter jet, the official Xinhua News Agency said Sunday. 
Mideast cease-fire in the making: 
Israel's Foreign Minister Shimon Peres trav­eled to Jordan and Egypt on Sunday seeking to forge the outlines of a Mideast cease-fire, but bomb attacks, mortar fire and gunbattles at home cast a long shadow over the latest peace initiative.Peres presented Israel's reservations to a peace deal put forward by Egypt and Jordan for ending seven months of Israeli-Palestinian fighting. But he said there were hopes for a deal that could lead to resuming peace negotiations. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Endeavour leaves space station: 
Space shuttle Endeavour and its· crew undocked from the international space station on Sunday, wrapping up a long, frazzling visit that was wracked by computer trouble but finally ended in success. Left behind were the three space station residents, who had just 14 hours to get ready for their next guests: two Russian cosmonauts and the first space tourist. 
Brush fires strike New Jersey: 
Wind-fanned brush fires consumed at least 550 acres across the state Saturday and forced the evacuation of dozens of homes. No injuries were reported. A fire centered near the Millville Airport in northern New Jersey burned at least 450 acres and forced evacua­tions of at least 11 streets'. Firefighters were struggling into the evening to contain it. "It's still growing in size," said Glenn Liepe, a war­den with the state Forest Fire Service. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Budget plan remains in limbo: 
State lawmakers continued Saturday to negoti­ate a two-year spending plan. but the outlook for reaching a deal looked bleak as talks stretched into the evening. House Democrats and Senate Republicans, the majority parties in their chambers, were inching closer to an agreement on Indiana's state budget, but clash­es over redistricting threatened to delay action beyond the regular session deadline of midnight Sunday. "We're still apart on the major areas," said Sen. Luke Kenley. R-Noblesville, a top bud­get negotiator for Senate Republicans. 
Market Watch April 27 
Dow 

10,810.05 +117.70 
Jones 

Composite Same: 
Volume: 234 NIA 
AMEX: 948.85 +10.72 NASDAQ: 2,075.68 -t40.00 NYSE: 637.64 +8.28 S&P 500: 1,253.05 +18.53 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
MICROSOFT (MSFT) -2.19 -2.01 67 .12 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +2.56 t<:l.39 15. 60 NASDAQ 100 INDX (QQQ) +2.73 +1.20 45 .15 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +1.48 t<:l.25 17 .15 INTEL CORP (INTC) +5.38 +1.54 30.18 
PUERTO RICO 

putting Carlos Manuel the study of liturgy and testers trespassing on the 
Associated Press 

Rodriguez on the path to bring laypeople into the bombing range. So far, 
VIEQUES sainthood. church. 128 protesters have been 
The U.S. Navy halted Rodriguez -one of five On the occasion of the arrested since Thursday 
bombing exercises on people beatified by Pope beatification, Puerto Ri­night for entering the 
Vieques as a gesture of John Paul II on Sunday -co's governor, Sila Calder­range in hopes of thwart­
respect as the Vatican was a layman who died in on. asked the pope to act ing the exercises, which 
beatified the first Puerto 1963 after a life dedicated to bring a permanent stop began Friday. 
Rican ever on Sunday, to the church. The Vatican to U.S. bombing exercises Activists claimed they ·bringing a pause to two has attributed a miracle on the outlying island of still had about 40 people days of clashes between to him: a woman recov­Vieques. She made the on the Navy bombing 
protesters and federal ered from non-Hodgkins request in a letter deliv­range. 
authorities. lymphoma after praying ered to John Paul by her "We're going to keep 
The exercises are to to Rodriguez. secretary of state. putting people on the 
resume Monday morning Some 25,000 people, On Vieques, dozens of bombing range because 
and are expected to last including many Puerto protesters formed picket we have demonstrated 
several more days, Navy Ricans, attended the cere­lines near Navy land on that we have been more 
Lt. Jeff Gordon said. The mony in St. Peter's Squa­Sunday, but there were no efficient at getting people 
Navy avoided exercises re. Rodriquez, an office reports of conflicts with in there than the Navy has 
Sunday as the largely clerk, gained fame in military security. been at taking them out," 
Catholic U.S. territory Puerto Rico for his piety The Navy did not report said protest leader Carlos 
observed the ceremony and his efforts to spread any new arrests of pro-Zenon. 
WWII bomb found armed in Italy 
Local shop owners and residents equipment, was relocated to local 
Associated Press 

had spent the waning hours of fair grounds. RAI state television 
VICENZA Saturday night boarding up their reported Vicenza's train station also 
Authorities evacuated 77,000 peo­storefronts and taping down win­closed down temporarily before resi­ple -two thirds of this northern dows as a precaution before clearing dents were allowed back into their Italian city -for several hours on out for what Italian media reports homes. Sunday so experts could disarm a said was the largest evacuation of its After being initially disarmed, the 4,000-pound unexploded bomb kind in Italy. cylindrical casing of the bomb was dropped by British fighters during Police units were reinforced to taken to a quarry in the outskirts of World War II. ensure residents obeyed the evacua­Vicenza. 325 miles northeast of 
The bomb, discovered several tion orders and air raid sirens wailed Rome, where its core components weeks ago buried in Vicenza's main throughout the morning to remind were to be extracted. cemetery, was successfully defused anyone who had stayed behind that English pilots dropped the 4,000­
shortly after midday. Italian news the operation was under way. pound device on April 2. 1944 during agencies quoted Vicenza prefect Even the city's hospital. with all i~ a bombing campaign over northern Angelo Tranfaglia as saying. patients, 100 doctors and emergency Italy, the press reports said. 
Monday, April 30, 2001 

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Malloy 
continued from page 1 

in the departments of theology and philosophy and also includes a chapel, conference rooms and other amenities. It will be completed by the opening of the 2001-02 academic year, and dedication events, including an academic conference and honorary degree ceremony, will coincide with the fall meeting of the University's Trustees in October. 
"Don Keough is at the fore­front of that group of contempo­rary Notre Dame benefactors who rightly can be called the University's 'new founders' ­those whose support has pro­pelled Notre Dame to and international prestige," Father Malloy said in acknowledging the gift. "I am flattered and humbled by his wish that the building carry my name." 
t 
"It was my great good fortune, as chairman of the Board of the University, to be part of the selection of Father Malloy as Notre Dame's president in 1987," Keough said. "Both walk­ing at his side, along with vice chairman Andy McKenna and the Board, and watching from the wings, I have seen his legacy as a leader of Notre Dame take shape over the past 14 years. My family and I are pleased that his name will identify the theology and philosophy center at Notre 
Dame." Keough is chairman of the board of Allen & Company, Incorporated, a New York investment-banking firm which he joined following a distin­guished, 43-year career with The Coca-Cola Company. He retired from Coca-Cola in 1993 as president, chief operating officer and a director and remains an advisor to its board. 
The father of five Notre Dame graduates, Keough was award­ed an honorary doctorate by the University at Commencement in 1985 -the same day his youngest son received his bac­calaureate degree-and in 1993 he was awarded the University's Laetare Medal, the oldest and most prestigious honor given to American Catholics. 
Keough's gifts to the University have been as numer­ous as they have been generous. With his wife, Marilyn, he estab­lished the University's presti­gious Irish studies institute, and the institute, its principal acade­mic chair, and Notre Dame's Irish studies center in Dublin's historic Newman House all bear the Keough name. Marilyn Keough joined her husband as the recipient of a Notre Dame honorary degree during the dedication ceremonies for the Dublin center in October 1998. Keough residence hall on the Notre Dame campus also was a gift from the couple and is named for Marilyn. 
Don Keough was elected a Notre Dame Trustee in 1978, served as chairman of the Board from 1986-92, and was designated a Life Trustee in 1997. 
Parietals 
continued from page 1 

end at 9 each morning. Opposite-sex visiting currently begins at 10 a.m. 
On Friday, those connected with the protest distributed more than 1,500 fliers promot­ing the event. The fliers urge students to bring their sleeping bags for a campout near the flagpole on South Quad tonight beginning around 10 p.m.. 
The fliers also make argu­ments for extending parietals, citing unfavor­able com­
"

... the purpose ofthe g e n d e r
ments from CLC members. event is to gather stu­issues on this cam­
The double­dents peacefully together 
pus," saidsided sheets 
so we can all get united freshman
contain a 

quote from behind this one cause . ., Amanda Kirk allegedly Hughes, who 
helped dis­
calling the res­

Paul Graham
olution "tyran­tribute fliers sophomore Friday. "It
ny of the 
majority." 

Another pas­sage reads: "Clearly, the administration doesn't respect student opinions, rights and input. Instead, it sees itself as the student body's parents, but it acts more as a dictator ­always serving its own inter­ests." 
In bold all-capital letters, the fliers urge students to "show the administration that we do have a voice ... and a back­bone. Hell, come for fun." 
While the Office of the Student Body President is not affiliated with the protest. stu­dent government officials said they support the campout's purpose. 
"We are not organizing this, but as students we would like to offer our support to enforce what students believe in," said Brooke Norton. student body president. 
Both Norton and Brian Moscona, student body vice president, said Sunday that they plan to attend the sleep­out as individuals not associat­ed with student government. 
"Parietals add to the prob­
lems we 
have with 
would be 
nice if you had an extra hour of study time through the week." 
In March, the Student Senate conducted a survey that polled student opinion on changing parietals hours. Of 3,038 respondents, 2,429 -about 80 percent -were in favor of extending parietals past mid­night during the week. 
Kirk, who voted against the parietals resolution last week, has agreed to tonight's protest. 
As assistant vice president for student affairs, Kirk was responsible for considering organizers' request to hold the campout. Du Lac, the University's guide to student life, gives Kirk discretion in permitting on-campus leaflet­ting and demonstrations. 
In an April 26 e-mail to Graham, Pfaff and Whetzel, Kirk approved the leafleting and the campout but made organizers aware that "tents, structures, furnishings and amplified sound will not be permitted and that all partici­pants in the demonstration will be expected to conduct them­selves in accordance with University regulations. 
Kirk approved the activities on the grounds that the demonstration be orderly and demonstrators not impede the freedom of the University com­munity. 
Graham said he's encourag­ing students to be mindful of the rules governing the cam­pout. 
"We're emphasizing that there can be no alcohol and no tents. It would ruin the spirit of the protest and the mission behind it," Graham said. "Besides, the purpose of the event is to gather students peacefully together so we can all get united behind this one cause." 
Protestors will begin unrolling their sleeping bags at 10 p.m. tonight on South Quad. The camp out wraps up around 10 a.m. Tuesday. 

A LITERARY TRIBUTE 
Photo courtesy of MARK LEVANDOSKI 
Members of the Notre Dame Polish Club (from I to r, Dan Matejek, Vince Slatt, Rene Sopiarz, Sal Dziekan, Andrej Bendarski, Jennifer Garczyk) pose with a statue of Polish author Joseph Conrad the club presented to Hesburgh Library. 
NDNATION.COM 
An online site devoted to ND sports is looking for student contributors. Interested parties should email SEE@NDnation.com 
/'-----------, . 49¢co1or 

: Copies:1 
I single-sided on 8.5" x 11 • 28 lb. paper. I 
I You'll be amazed by the quality. I 
:COPY SHOP: 
1 1
LaFortune Student Center 

I On the Campus of the University of Notre Dame I 
: Call 631-COPY : 
I FREE Pick-Up & Delivery I 
I See store for details. I I Coupon required. Hurry • expires 514/01. I
, ___________,,,,

\ Not valid with any other offer or discount. J 
Monday, April 30, 200 I page 7
The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
PHILIPPINES 

Catholic church leader pushes active political support 
Associated Press 
MANilA 
The powerful head of the Philippine Roman Catholic church urged people into the streets early Monday to defend democracy and the president, setting up a possible showdown with thousands of protesters supporting ousted President Joseph Estrada. 
Troops were put on highest alert amid widespread rumors of a looming coup. Hundreds responded to Jaime Cardinal Sin's midnight call, taking to the 


streets to express sup­port for President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo. The military chief reiterated sup­port for Arroyo at a 2 
a.m. news conference, and denied reports that officers were defecting to Estrada's camp. 

freed from jail to undergo med­ical tests, and armored person­nel carriers were deployed at the presidential palace, part of a special 2,000-person task force mobilized to stop anti­government unrest. 
"We are on alert," Villanueva said. 
Hundreds of people immedi­ately responded to Sin's mid­night request to gather near the presidential palace as the pro­Estrada rallies moved into a fifth day. Sin, one of Estrada's biggest critics, was among the leaders of mass protests that forced the former action film star to leave the presidential 
"Wherever they may jail me, they will never be able to imprison the voic­es ofour people against an oppressive regime which gained power not through the majesty of elections." 
Joseph Estrada former Philippine president 
palace on Jan. 20 over corruption allegations. 
" A s 
Catholics, we must fully support, defend and stand behind the present government and President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo," Sin said in a radio and television 


''I'd like to assure the public that the Armed Forces of the Philippines stands united 100 percent, steadfast behind com­mander-in-chief ... Arroyo, and claims to the contrary are plain and simple falsehood and designed to create disorder and sow confusion," said chief of staff Gen. Diomedio Villanueva. 
Five tanks sat behind a build­ing at the hospital where Estrada has been temporarily address. "Keep watch, stay alert. It is immoral to grab power. It is immoral to support those plotting against duly con­stituted authorities." 

The government has allowed the pro-Estrada rallies to con­tinue at the shrine to the "peo­ple power" revolution that top­pled late dictator Ferdinand Marcos in 1986 as long as they remain peaceful. Tens of thou­sands of people have attended nightly. 
"There are limits to these lib­erties. If the safety of individu­als are threatened then the exercise of those liberties might have to be restrained," Interior Secretary Jose Lina said. 
Estrada and his son, Jinggoy, were jailed Wednesday for the capital offense of plunder ­defined as theft from the state of more than $1 million. 
The ousted president issued a statement that was read to the protesters, urging the rallies to continue. 
"Wherever they may jail me, they will never be able to imprison the voices of our peo­ple against an oppressive regime which gained power not through the majesty of elec~ tions," Estrada said. 
Top military and police offi­cials have pledged their support for Arroyo daily. They backed the protests that forced Estrada from power in January and installed Arroyo. 
Ray Roquero, a provincial town mayor who visited Estrada Sunday, said the former presi­dent was entertaining guests and was buoyed by the rallies. 
The government plans to move Estrada to a more remote detention facility, hoping it will quell the protests as the Philippines prepares for con­gressional and local elections on May 14 that many see as a ref­erendum on Arroyo. 
Estrada's lawyers are pushing for house arrest or bail, neither of which is normally allowed on plunder charges. 
National Poetry Month Celebration 
Meet University of Notre Dame Poets 
Sonia Gernes and Orlando Menes 
Mon day 
April 30 
7:00 pm 

in the Hammes Notre Dame 8 o o ksto re 
I 
i 
\ 
~------­


HAMMES 

NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: 631-6316 • www.ndbookstore.com 


page 8 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, April 30, 2001 
MACEDONIA 
ENGLAND 

President: No mercy for militants 
Government eases 

Associated Press 
SKOPJE 
Bracing for renewed ethnic conflict after an ambush killed eight government com• mandos, Macedonia's presi­dent pledged Sunday that no mercy would be shown to the Albanian militants responsi­ble. 
The attack Saturday near the Kosovo border was the most deadlv incident since clashes between government troops and ethnic Albanian militants began in February. 
"It is time now to ... unite the political forces and all the citizens of Macedonia so that terrorism is defeated," 

President "It is time now to ... unite 
where they
B o r i s 

the political forces and battled the
Tr aj kovs ki 
militants for

said on state all the citizens of 
weeks before 

television. Macedonia so that 
pushing
A police 

terrorism is defeated.,. them back
statement 
last month.
said between 
State televi­

25 and 30 Boris Trajkovski 
sion stopped
rebels from 

President, Macedonia 
broadcasts
Kosovo attacked a convoy of four vehicles and 16 men. Six other soldiers were injured. 

I Government spokesman 
i' Antonio Milososki said the commandos who were killed were shot in the head and stabbed by the militants after the attack to ensure they were dead. 
The attack shattered hopes of lasting calm in the wake of a government offensive last month that appeared to have dispersed the rebels. 
Ethnic Albanian demands that the Macedonian constitu­tion be rewritten to guaran­tee equal status with majority Slavs have been rejected by the government, which argues that would lead to a de facto division of Macedonia. 

Ethnic Albanians make up about one-third of the coun­try's 2 million people. So far, the ethnic violence has been relatively contained, with the militants failing to win wide support. 
But Trajkovski's statement signaled that the government was braced for an all-out assault should the violence resume. 
Though no fighting was reported Sunday, Trajkovski said the government had already taken measures to regain control of the border region and find the attackers. He did not elaborate. 
Police imposed a 10 p.m. to 5 a.m. curfew for the second-
largest city 
of Tetovo, 

of overnight Albanian-language news• casts, saying they incited "militant extremism." 
Passions ran high at the funeral Sunday of 25-year-old Igor Kosteski, one of those killed in the ambush. 
."This_ was murder. They killed eight young people for nothing," said his father, Milivoj. 
Interior Minister Dosta Dimovska warned of "indica­tions that there might be more such terrorist incur­sions from Kosovo in the upcoming period." 
In related violence, three Yugoslav soldiers were reported wounded when their vehicle ran over a land mine north of the Macedonian bor­der, in Serbia. Later Sunday, the government press office 
reported that ethnic Albanian 
last call alcohol law
militants in the area launched an attack against the Serb police near the town of 
Associated Press 

Vranje. Signaling more trouble, eth­nic Albanian political and 
LONDON

military leaders in the region 
Britain's traditron-soaked

Sunday linked any talks with 
pub culture is set to see its

the Serb government to full 
biggest change in decades ­demilitarization of the area ­an easing of the nation's strict

something the Serbs have 
11 p.m. last call for alcohol, arejected in the past. 

government minister said

With Kosovo a staging point Sunday.
for both insurrections, NATO­The long-debated licensingled peacekeepers in the Serb 
change to allow pubs, bars,province have stepped up restaurants and stores to sell

border patrols in recent 
alcohol later -and perhaps

weeks to stop the flow of 
around the clock -is slatedfighters and supplies. 

to be one of the first acts ofIn Brussels, Belgium, NATO 

Prime Minister Tony Blair's

Secretary General Lord 
government if it wins a second

Robertson said the Kosovo 
term of office this summer

peacekeeping force was 
officials said. ' 

"doing all it can to ensure 
While it may seem counter­

tight control of the border 
intuitive that keeping pubswith Kosovo." Spokesmen open longer will minimize

said additional helicopter and 
problems with drunkenness

foot patrols had been 
the Home Office argues thatordered. 

the current limit encourages

Yugoslav President Vojislav binge drinking before closingKostunica said in Belgrade and causes chaotic crowds ofthat the Macedonian attack 
revelers to spill into theshowed Balkan security 

streets all at once, straining

remained threatened by 
nighttime law enforcement. 

Albanian "terrorism." NATO, 
"Our proposals will dealthe European Union and with the antiquated and

Russia also condemned the 
bureaucratic licensing system assault. 

and modernize it," Home

Trajkovski is to visit 
Office Minister Mike O'Brien

Washington this week and 
said. ' 

said he would demand 
'They will give business"strong support of the 

greater freedom, protect localAmerican administration for residents. help the police deala complete and lasting defeat 

with law and order and giveof the terrorist groups in Macedonia." 

the public more opportunities to socialize." 
Blair's chief political rival, the Conservative Party, decried the announcement a:s a cheap attempt to grab votes ahead of the national election planned for early June. ' 
.. How typical and oppor­tunistic of Labor to revisit this in the run-up to the election," said Ann Widdecombe. a senior Conservative lawmak­er. 
Blair's _Labor Party holds a commanding lead over the ~onservatives, according to independent polls, and is widely expected to win re­election. 
Proposals examined in a ~ecent Home Office report include staggering closings from 11 p.m. until the early morning hours or lifting nationar restrictions altogeth­er to allow local communities to determine closing times. 
A change would .. end the unnaturally early race to drink as much as possible before closing time, when many are not yet ready to go," the report said. 
Mark Hastings, a spokesman for the Brewers and Licensed Retailers Association applaud­ed the announcement. saying that the current closing time -one of the earliest in­Western Europe -treats Britons "like children." 

6th Annual 
Institute for Spiritual Leadership 
AUGUST 20-21, 2001 LAKESIDE, MICHIGAN 
Discover God's call in your leadership role and join a living network where you are connected with others, no longer alone. 
Workshops include: 
. 
Christian Service 

. 
Teach Us to Pray 

. 
Retreat Ministry 

. 
Many Faces of God: Multicultual Expressions of Spirituality 


Open and free to all Saint Mary's students faculty administration and staff. ' , 
Come to an informational meeting May 1 or May 2 at 5:00 PM in the North Wedge Room Noble Family Dining Hall, or call 284-5391 to registe;! 
-e­Questions? SAINT. Call Saint Mary's 
Space is limited, so 
Campus Ministry 

:MARY'S 
at 284-5391

COLLEGE 
Register by May 11, 2001!
NOTRE DAME, IN 

Do you like living on Earth? Keep it that way: Recyle this newspaper. 
Monday, April 30, 2001 

The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Strip club prostitution case heads to court 
Associated Press 
ATlANTA 

Federal court officials scram­bled to accommodate crowds of reporters and spectators wanti­ng to see the trial of a strip club owner accused of building a $50 million fortune in part by providing prostitutes for celebrities. 
Atlanta's Gold Club is one of the most profitable nude clubs in the country, popular among convention-goers and visiting celebrities. Federal investiga­tors say it is also a high-priced brothel that pumps cash into the Gambino crime family. 
Jury selection was set to begin Monday for the trial of owner Steven Kaplan and six associates on charges including loan sharking, money launder­ing and bribing police officers. 
Prosecutors say Kaplan enjoyed setting up famous ath­letes with prostitutes. He even flew a group of women to Charleston. S.C .. in 1997 to "perform a lesbian sex show" and have sex with members of an unnamed NBA team according to the indictment. · 
The indictment did not identi­fy the team, but the New York Knicks were in Charleston in April 1997 for a playoff training camp. The team has held train­ing camps in Charleston since 1991. 
Gold Club employees also are accused of sending women to Miami, Las Vegas and Minneapolis for sex with celebrities or regular paying customers. One person spent more than $100,000 over six months, investigators say. 
NBA stars Patrick Ewing, Dennis Rodman and Charles Oakley were among the ath­letes and celebrities who received free food and drinks worth thousands of dollars when they visited the club, according to receipts seized by the FBI. 
None of the club's patrons is charged with a crime. 
U.S. District Judge Willis Hunt sealed the names of celebrities and athletes who prosecutors say had sex with club dancers. Assistant U.S. Attorney Art Leach has referred to them only by initials. 
"These are very famous indi­viduals and it will obviously sensationalize this situation if these names behind the initials were to become public," Leach told the judge. 
Spokesmen for the Knicks the NBA and individual athlete~ who spent large amounts of money at the club all declined to comment. 
Defense attorneys say the government purposely exagger­ated celebrity and mob ties to 
· paint the club as a den of sin. "The government would have the world believe this is a sex palace, and it's just not," said Bruce H. Morris, who repre­sents club manager Norbert Calder. 
"They're trying to do a moral­ity play here," said Steven Sadow, Kaplan's attorney. 
Last federal execution less famo·us 
. McVeigh death the first federal execution since 1963 
Associated Press 
FORT MADISON, Iowa 

The next prisoner scheduled for execution by the federal government is getting far more attention than the last one -a convicted 
murderer who was quietly hanged 38 years ago in a state prison workshop. 
Timothy 


McVeigh. McVeigh scheduled to die by injection on May 16 for bombing the federal building at Oklahoma City, will be the first federal prisoner executed since Victor Feguer went to the gal­lows in 1963 at the Iowa State Penitentiary in Fort Madison. 
The two men are a study in contrasts. 
McVeigh killed 168 people with his bomb. Feguer killed one, a doctor kidnapped in Dubuque and taken across the state line into Illinois. 
McVeigh carefully planned his crime. Feguer was incapable of planning anything, said his attorney, Frederick White of Waterloo. 
And while McVeigh is not fighting the death penalty. Feguer resisted until the end, but decided not to make a final 
statement. He never admitted 
killing Dr. Edward Bartels. 
Feguer was brought to the 

Fort Madison prison to die 
because the federal government 
did not have a death chamber. 
Feguer's last meal request was simple -an olive with the pit still in it. He told prison offi­cials he hoped 'an olive tree would sprout from his body as a sign of peace. 
"I sure hope I'm the last one to go," Feguer is said to have told the Rev. Bernard Brugman, the prison chaplain, on the day he died -March 15, 1963. 
Witnesses said Feguer stood silently, chewing gum rapidly, as the noose was placed around his neck and a black silk hood was pulled over his face. 
At 5:30 a.m., a trap door in the wooden gallows was pulled open and he fell through and dangled at the end of the rope. A doctor stood on a table beneath the gallows to check for a heartbeat, and Feguer was pronounced dead of a bro­ken neck. 
A prison psychological exam­ining board had found that he suffered from a character disor­der with psychotic episodes. Doctors who examined him three months before his execu• tion said he was a sociopath with schizophrenic tendencies. 
Feguer "had considerable repression and denial in facing this penalty," the doctors wrote. "He must accept the acts as having occurred." 
White described his client as "weird." 
Investigators said Feguer chose Bartels simply because his name was listed first among general practitioners in the phone book. 
Feguer asked the doctor to 
come to a Dubuque rooming 
house on July 11, 1960, saying 
his wife was ill. Feguer didn't 
have a wife and apparently kid­
napped Bartels for ransom or 
drugs. 
Bartels' body, with a gunshot 
wound to the head, was found 
in a field near Menominee, Ill. 
White said his client refused 
to discuss details of the case. 
"We never learned anything 
from him," he said. "We 
couldn't even get a discussion 
with him about it." 
Feguer. who was 25 at the time, was arrested nine days after the doctor disappeared when he tried to sell Bartels' car in Birmingham, Ala. 
White and his defense team appealed Feguer's conviction on grounds that he was not mentally fit for trial. The appeal was denied, and President Kennedy refused to grant clemency. 
Feguer had a prison record stretching back to the age of 13, when he was convicted of breaking and entering and spent two years in institutions. He was arrested for burglary in 1951 and sentenced to 15 years in prison. He was released in 1960, the year he kidnapped and shot Bartels. 
Retired prison clerk Charles Wilkens remembers checking Feguer into the Iowa prison. 
"He was quiet, never gave any trouble, never bothered anybody," Wilkens said. 
Wilkens said the scaffold was built in a 40-by-50-foot room in a prison auto mechanics shop a couple of weeks before the exe­cution. 
STUDENT ORGANIZED LECTURE Professor Michael Sherry, distinguished historian from Northwestern University, will speak on the topic -­~~DON'T ASK, DON'T TELL'': The Great Debate on Gays-in-the-Military 1993-4 All are invited. Q & A to follow Monday, April 30 7:00 pn'I Lafortune Ballroon'I Sp«:>nsor~d by the History Department, Knott Hall, the Student Union, the Un1vers1ty Standing Committee for Gay and Lesbian Needs, College Democrats and College Republicans  


page 10 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Kerry Smich  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Pat McElwee SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadcer SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAJNT MARYS EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EorToR: Kacie McKenna 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAG.ER/GENER.AL INF0 .............. 631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHI.EF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EmTOR/AssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE ........................................ 631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT ................................................. 631-5303 observer.viewpoinc. l@nd.edu SPORTS.................................. ......................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARYS.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOTO ........................................................ 631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.......... .......631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

V1Sit our Web sice at http://observn-.nd.edu for daily updates of campus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 

movies/music for 
minute forecasts 

weekly student reviews 
online features for spe~
advertise for policies 
and rates ofprint ads 

cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 

about The Observer 
articles published after 

to meet the editors and 
staff
Augusr 1999 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofche University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right co refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through leners is er.couragcd. Leners to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qrmtions rrgarding Obsm1cr policies shoulJ be dirm­cd to Editor in ChiefMike Connolly. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 
Monday, April 30, 2001 


It's one week post-MCAT and all I have to say is: "school's out for sum­mer," heck, "school's out for eva." 
Oh wait, we have finals, even the seniors. Not to worry, though, as I say: Forego the usual walk into Anna Barbour stress and sleep deprivation. Notre Dame doth provide Get A life for you well, dear friends. And how does she do it? She provides you with Viewpoint. 
Yes, Viewpoint (and maybe a few other classic works of age-old thought provocation, but mainly just the Viewpoint pages}. Many controversial topics have appeared among this very newspaper's pages that would make very good final exam essays. 
So be not afraid. We will provide you with the necessary styles of attacking the tough essay question exam. 
You are unconvinced. You are still afraid of finals week. And why? Because this is it, this is the last week before a glorious summer, culminat­ing in the rest of your life or because you need to pass the final that allows you to pass the class that allows you to graduate. 
Any way you slice it, this upcoming week in May is one that will not be remembered for the amount of Frisbee throwing on the quad. This week will most assuredly be remem­bered for those climactic few days in which a year's worth of communal philosophy congeals into the most profound nugget of wisdom; a wisdom that will have garnered you the high­est of honors: graduation or a ticket to another year at Notre Dame. 
Although you may prefer to study all the material, learning it thoroughly, so as to be ready for the actual exam questions asked, we feel that this year, this new millennium year, calls for something more practical. more time-efficient, more, well, in touch with topics that affect all of our lives. So I, a stupendous writer, while drink­ing (coffee} have brought together the many important issues that you have heard this year into thought-provok­ing essay exam material. 
1. Begin with your "own" broad gen­eralization. 
"This problem has plagued societies since the earliest beginnings of human history." This problem concerns free speech. Many cultures ask them­selves, "should we have it?" Yea or Nay? Most democratic citizens say yea, but some fake-democratic citi­zens will pop-up with a nay. 
Or start simply with a re-phrase of the question such as "I can not help, dearest professor, but respond by simply saying 'No, that's wrong.' Indeed, I'm not even willing to consid­er what you have written as even within the foggiest range of validity." 
Add a sentence that begins with "Studies have shown." 
2. Put in your main examples. 
On this campus alone, there exist some struggles between those who want freedom and those who do not. Remember all the past issues of Viewpoint to collect your examples. 
Some Notre Dame women, for instance, believe they are not able to express themselves freely in the cloth­ing they are "socially allowed" to wear. How can we consider ourselves Americans in a society that does not allow free forms of all kinds of speech? 
When will parietals become destroyed? This is quite possibly the biggest example of freedom restriction in our immediate vicinity. 
And good lord, "The Vagina Monologues," where did free-speech go in that situation? (Why that debauchery known as the Keenan Review can have its glory while "The Vagina Monologues" are silenced is beyond anybody's guess.) 
Also, should we or should we not allow President Bush to speak on campus? And more importantly, if we allow him to speak, are we being pro­free speech? Maybe, but maybe not. 
And it is a fact that certain students on this campus do not want democrat­ic ideals; they state that "they ques­tion the lack of editorial censorship on the part of The Observer in articles that deal with such topics as gun con­trol." We cannot even talk about per­sonal firearms without people going nuts around here. 
Be bold with your declarative state­ments. "One might suggest, however, that the opulence of this university coheres as much to Catholic character as would giant midnight orgies on North quad.'' Now, take another angle in your argument; state that the prob­lem stems from meat. That's right, meat! Some have suggested a conspir­acy with the Catholic season of Lent. The unfortunate result of losing free speech reaches much farther than one may think. Rhetorically, ask, "If we eat not meat, what are we sacrific­ing?" Only our nutrition, our health, and our stamina, is what we're sacri­ficing. 
3. Sum up your conclusions. 
Try to reach some conclusions for God's sake. Say that the problem demands serious answers, serious action. But we cannot help you with them as you would be caught for pla­giarism and tossed out of campus on your butt. 
Now, because we are master crafts­men, you are done studying for most of your exams, unless you are an engineer. By God, go out and enjoy the fresh air: you know, "if you free your mind, the rest will follow." 
Incidentally, the multiple choice final: narrow the answer down to two best choices than choose C if that is an option. If C is not an option, we're sorry to hear that; do what you can. 
Anna Barbour is a junior theology and pre-professional major. Her col­umn appears every other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The writers who have nothing to say are the ones you can buy; the others have too high a price ... 
Walter Lippmann author and editor 

..:. 


O
THE 

Monday, April 30, 2001 BSERVER page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Students protest denied parietal extension 
The Mission Statement of the University of Notre Dame states. "The University prides itself on being an environment of teaching and learning which fosters the development in students of those disci­plined habits of mind, body and spirit which characterize educated. skilled and free human beings. 
Unfortunately, it appears that these noble ideas will not be reached anytime in the near future. In an effort to prevent changes that would allow students to grow into disciplined, free human beings com­mitted to respectful communal living, the administration has structured the Campus Life Council (CLC} in a manner that will quash any student-led initiative to improve the campus community. 
Members of the Student Senate and CLC led a student initiative to address some of the perceivable flaws in the implementa­tion of the University's parietal policy. The students proposed a reasonable modifica­tion of the existing visiting hours to address current gender relations, academic and social problems facing the University. 
After spending a semester researching the issue. through intensive conversation with and polling of students, the student task force arrived at the conclusion that extending visiting hours by a mere two hours (from 10 to 9 a.m. in the morning and from midnight to 1 a.m. in the evening} would produce tangible improve­ment in the day-to-day lives of the stu­dents. 
In a referendum conducted by the Senate it was found that 80 percent of the 
student body (2,429 out of 3,038 respon­dents) favored these measures. 
These measures would help students address the reality of an academic work­load that requires students to work, often collaboratively. both early in the morning and late in the night. 
Unfortunately the University placed its own designs before student initiative, an initiative it invited with the promise of con­sideration. As anyone in attendance at this week's CLC meeting can attest, the University had no intention of considering this effort. 
When the issue arose at the meeting. students expressed the reasons why the University should heed the mandate of the students. The students stressed that they were not calling into question the institu• tion of parietals. but rather that they were calling for a reform necessary for the acad• emic, social and spiritual well being of the student body. 
Seth Whetzel called for open debate in the hopes that progress could be reached through communication. The students received support from the faculty repre• sentative on the CLC. a University librarian who agreed that more and more students have been staying up later and studying longer, especially in groups. 
The rectors immediately sprang to the defense of the entire institution of pari· etals. In dismissing the issues of gender relations and academic concerns, the rec• tors focused on the additional hour of work this would entail for hall staff and offered unlikely scenarios that might make mid­night ·parietals seem more reasonable than 
1 a.m. parietals. 

When a vote was called, every student 
and faculty member voted in favor of the 
measure. Bill Kirk and the rectors voted 
against the measure. 
Students will not be surprised at the 
administration's insistence on the status 
quo. A student resolution with faculty sup­
port still requires at least one administra­
tor or rector to support the measure for 
the required two-thirds vote necessary for 
the resolution to pass. The administrators 
and rectors usually vote as a block, as in 
this case, effectively muting the voice of 80 
percent of the student body. 
Here are some of the arguments provid­
ed by the administrators and rectors on 
why they voted the way they did: 
1. 
In defense of parietals, one rector offered gender stereotypes, asserting that female students needed time to do their hair, nails and make•up before being seen by members of the opposite sex. He argued that parietals afforded the women of Notre Dame this opportunity. 

2. 
One rectress questioned the statistics presented, refusing to believe that 80 per­cent of the student body favored the mea­sure and 15 percent opposed it. She implied the numbers were generated through polling improprieties. despite ear­


. lier explanation that a social psychologist experienced in obtaining unbiased, accu• rate samples had advised the student task force. 
3. One rector argued that parietals are actually a form offreedom. What freedom? 
Successful community living can only be accomplished through trust and communi­cation, values that cannot be instilled through rules that obviate the need for both. 
4. The rectors repeatedly confused the idea of parietals with the practice of enforcing quiet hours. The rectors ignored incidences, such as the Friday night before the MCATs, study days and finals week where quiet hours are maintained without the institution of parietals. The respect stu• dent have for each other is more than suf­ficient to allow people to fall asleep at their desired time. 
Never have we been more disappointed in and felt more ignored and marginalized by the University. When the response to a semester's worth of hard work and the overwhelming outcry of the student body is the refusal to truly discuss the issue, how can students not be disgusted? 
As long as University policy is beyond reproach, students will forever be denied the opportunity to develop into "educated, skilled and free human beings" with "disci­plined habits ofmind, body and spirit." 
Tonight there will be a campus-wide camp•out on South Quad, starting at 10 p.m., in protest of parietals and the admin­istration's lack of respect for the voice of the student body. No alcohol, no tents. Bring lots of friends. 
Kevin Berchou, Paul Graham, Mike Pfaff, Mike Snow and Seth Whettel 
Notre Dame undergraduates April 27, 2001 

Research good for education 
Recently we have learned Notre Dame's administration is hesitant to promote research efforts in various University departments because they are concerned that it may degrade the quality of an undergraduate education. This is a common opinion due to the fact that pro­fessors at many of the most pres­tigious research universities are known for directing their atten­tion away from undergraduate teaching and towards their grad­uate students and personal research. 
However, as electrical engi­neering and computer science majors who have participated in undergraduate research, we feel that the opportunities afforded to students at Notre Dame through research are of immeasurable benefit. 
In addition to gaining specific skills and knowledge in the field, it allows the student to accumu­late valuable conts1cts in industry and academia, better define their own career goals and interests, learn what "real" work in the field entails and participate in creating some of the most cutting edge technology today. 
Graduate school admission committees and employers are impressed with undergraduate researchers because it reveals their sincere interest in the field and an unquestioned self motiva­tion. 

Classes provide important per­spectives and general back­ground knowledge, but under• graduate research expands upon that by forcing the student to apply that knowledge to a previ­ously unsolved problem. It chal­lenges the students' creativity and allows abstract "book learn­ing" to be used to create some­thing original. 
Notre Dame is a unique institu­tion that is poised to contribute greatly to society in many ways in the future. We would like to see Notre Dame interact as an equal with the best institutions in the world, and to do this in the field of science or engineering requires that Notre Dame build strong research programs. 
While we understand the con­cern that this may detract from undergraduate education. we testify that it has only enhanced our own. We feel that Notre Dame's commitment to under­graduates is uniquely strong enough to keep us from experi• encing the detachment between undergraduates and professors commonly found at other institu• tions. 
Kevin Hennessy, Arun Rodrigues, David Rink, Chris Sanabria, Enrique Blair, George Viamontes, Joseph Taylor, Branden Moore Tim Dysart and Andrew Sordi 
Undergraduate participants in research April 26, 2001 

No theater coverage 
It is an absolute disgrace that after eagerly combing the pages of our yearbook we did not come across a single picture of a theater pro­duction. Not a single picture. There wasn't any reference to the theater at all. 
Excuse No. 1: The events took place too late in the year. 
Let us list for you the productions that have happened in the last two semesters, not includ­ing this weekend's Oedipus Rex which, under­standably, would not have made the deadline: 
"Taming of the Shrew," "As You Like It," "Good Night Desdemona," "Good Morning Juliet," "Lost in Yonkers," "Love's Fire," "Comedy of Errors," "Shirley Valentine," "All in the Timing," "I Hate Hamlet," "Guys and Dolls," "Romeo and Juliet," "One Man Shows," a per­formance workshop, "Just Browsing," 15 direct­ing finals, plus last spring's "Love of the Nightingale" {Reg Bain's last directing project, an esteemed member of the Notre Dame facul• ty, retired, now emeritas). 
Some great things are going on within the department which would be of interest to stu­dents today, as well as in the future. The new performing arts center is breaking ground soon and the plans have been made public. This includes a multi-million dollar black-box theatre donated by Regis Philbin. In addition, Actors from the London Stage have made Notre Dame their "home base" in the United States and next year's season includes a visit from an esteemed international director. 
Excuse No. 2: The yearbook though has a lim­ited amount ofspace and not every event is able to be covered. 
Somehow there was enough space for D6, the parking lot, as well as the ducks that wander around (they, incidentally, do not pay tuition). Apparently, the Dome has their priorities mixed up and we the students are paying the price. Maybe there are some students who would rather see their cars than themselves in their senior yearbook. but we have yet to run across any such people. 
Lots of time, energy and man•power goes into a production and that time is taken away from other events like sports. "hanging out" on the quad or in La Fortune, going to movies or even pep rallies. Mainstage productions require at least four to five hours of rehearsal a day. six days a week. According to our calculations, that is just as much, if not more, than some varsity athletics. Efforts and sacrifices like these deserve notice. We do not simply perform for ourselves but for the benefit of the entire stu­dent body. Unfortunately. when we go back to our yearbook, it will not be acknowledged. 
This is a terrible non-memory for the gradu­ating senior theatre majors and a real let-down for the rest of the department as well. 
Babs Smith, Kathy Koch and Jeni Rinner 
Frf Mainsrage student representatives April 27, 2001 
Seniors 

We are now accepting letters for the senior week edition. Please send your letters to observer.viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
,f 
' 

C s 

page 12 Monday, April 30, 2001 

I 
:1 
! 
,! 
I 
I 
I, 

\ 
,I 
I 
,, 
)' 
,l 
/ 
My life as a frisbee ... sucks 
Hey, I'm a red frisbee. And I've got something to say: I'm tired of being thrown around the quad, hitting people in the head. Every time I hit someone in the head, they always get mad and say it hurts. But what about me, the frisbee? I get scratched and dinged when I hit the ground. You just get a welt. 
People are throwing me in trees. Then you throw 


up your shoe to get me out. That hurts you clown! What do you do when somebody throws your Birkenstock at you? You get pissed! Why don't you lay off the pipe and throw me correctly, hippie? 
Oh, and then you throw me up on a roof, and just say "that sucks" and go inside. Then I sit up there all summer and warp because its so hot. Then when it rains in the fall, I slide off the roof and when you find me, you say, "hey, I was looking for 
this." 

Jeff Baltruzak NO YOU WEREN'T, JACK.ASS. You just got anoth­
er frisbee, one of those fancy ones. 
Then there's the ever popular "throw the frisbee 
Scene Writer at a girl to get her attention because she's in a 
bikini." I'm not some matchmaker, I'm a flying 
disc. If you can't talk to girls yourself, that's your 
problem buddy. Don't kill my game with your sorry game. None of the lady frisbees will talk to me if they find out I've 
touched the butt of some sunbathing girl. Why don't you try not to be 
a loser, then throw me around. 
And what about those people that throw frisbees? Hey. they make shirts that aren't tie-dyed. Why don't you take a shower and cut your hair? And getting the frisbee "ripped" is not as funny as you think it is. I'm associated with people that don't ever wear shoes and go to Phish concerts all the time. Maybe that's why Ultimate hasn't become a major sport. Football players all wear cleats, after all. 
People try to be all fancy when they throw me. They try to throw me through their legs and bounce me off the sidewalk. Of course, it never works, and I end up rolling into a building. You've been on the quads lately. You know 90 percent of the people out there don't know what they're doing when they throw me. They go like ten throws and nobody catches me. They're too busy checking out the opposite sex. It's like a grassy Boat Club. 
About catching me (this is my pet peeve}: do not catch me by clamping your hands on the top and bottom of me. That's like some­body going up to you and karate chopping your head on both sides. That's assault, brother. But do you think the NDSP does anything about assaults on frisbees? Nope. 
I don't want to whine, but frisbee abuse is a pressing social prob­lem. I wrote to my congressman, but he says there's nothing he can do because I can't vote. Maybe the time has come for our society to stop treating frisbees as something you can get for 99 cents at Meijer and start treating us like legitimate purveyors of fun. 
And I got nothing but love for those Ultimate players. They throw me crisply. They make me feel alive. They don't hit things with me. 
So, next time you're out on the quad, recognize that frisbees have feelings too. And if we land up on the roof, at least try to get us down within six months. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of the Observer. 

AMANDA HUGHES/The Observer Too often frisbee players, such as the one pictued above, carelessly fire their whirling discs of destruction into the paths of innocent by­standers. These accidents not only annoy those that get hit but the frlsbee as well. 
Fewer Clothes, m< 
By LAURA KELLY 
Associate Scene Editor 

What is it about the spring that turns us into kids again? Maybe it's the smell of flowers in the air, the hormones running high, the homework piling up and the moti­vation to let work slip away. 
Whatever the reason, once the sun finally shows its face in South Bend, we flock out­side and throw away our worries and obligations as easily as we toss Frisbees into the air. During the week's hectic schedule, the quads are sparsely populated with only a few lucky sunbathers and foot­ball fanatics making the most of their afternoon after classes. 
But the weekend is when the quad phe­nomenon reaches its ecstatic height. On Friday and Saturday afternoons, the grassy lawns are covered with sleeping students and avid athletes. Some make an event of it, dragging chairs and stereos outside and gathering groups of friends and beverages with which to entertain them. 
What is the best way to enjoy this spring­time phenomenon on the quads? To make the most of your time on Notre Dame's manicured lawns. here are the essentials you need to know: the rules and mores of life on the quad. 
Seating 

To truly enjoy your quad experience, you need to stake out your territory. This is the place to see and be seen. Find a sunny patch of grass and claim it as your own. You'll need something to lie on -a blan­ket, a towel, a comforter or a good-looking member of the opposite sex. Other more elaborate choices involve carrying your dorm furniture out onto the quad. Get some strong friends and lug that beer­soaked couch outside -think of it as spring cleaning. Besides. the quad is just an extension of the dorm anyway. Now the 
The Observer present 
afternoon is yours: pop on some shades, sit back and relax. 
The Art of Scoping 
Now that you've got yourself settled, what to do? The favorite quad activity of those who don't want to break a sweat is to scope out the opposite sex. This highly refined art reaches a new level outside of the dining hall. Here you can judge others based on their athletic ability, their inter­actions with friends and their appearance in skimpy summer clothes. While some may think this is the stuff of male chauvin­ism, girls are just as likely to rate those of the opposite sex. On~ group of Walsh resi­dents judges male passer-bys on their shorts: length, style and how good their legs look after a sun-deprived winter. Just doing their part to support gender equity at Notre Dame. 
Proper Quad Attire 
Once the weather warms up, the clothes (like the six-month old snow) melt away as well. Clothing is at a minimum during the springtime months, and sunbathers on the quad take this to a new level. For males, shorts and a baseball hat or sunglasses are all that seem to be required. The women of Notre Dame, on the other hand, get cre­ative with bikini tops, tank tops and short shorts. Girls roll up sleeves. cuffs, even entire shirts, all in the name of exposing every possible square inch to the sun. A bird's eye view of this Catholic University's quads must be a strange one -hundreds of students stretched out as burnt offerings to some sun god. 
Athletics 

The word on the lawns is that South quad is the quad for scoping sunbathers, while North quad is the place to show off your athletic skills. Yet both quads are filled with sailing Frisbees, spiraling foot-



Mondy. April 30, 200I page 13 
,re balls and sunburned Catholics 
; Scenes annual look at life on the Notre Dame quads 
balls and the familiar thump of a base­balls in a well-worn gloves. At a school renowned for its athletic prowess, one only expects to find its students engaged in sports during their free time, and the spring months are no exception. The quads bring out the jock in all of us, from the varsity all­stars to the wanna-be beginners. Among the most popular sports played on the spring quads are: lacrosse, foot­ball, baseball, Frisbee, lawn bowling and croquet. 
Safety 
No matter what the sport of choice, the eager players have to maneuver their throws and tosses so as not to knock out those who are audacious enough to use the quad for its actual purpose: walking across campus. Once in a while, a gust of wind, an ill-judged distance or a novice player will let a ball or Frisbee sail right into an inno­cent passer-by. While this can be a trick to meet cute girls, it can also transform the quad into a dangerous cross-fire zone. The key is to keep an eye out for these flying objects and at least attempt to catch one if it heads your way. 
Refreshments 
Whether it's a hard-nosed game of football or just exhaustion from hours of tanning, every quad-goer eventually craves refreshment. Around the lunch hour. many happy Grab-N-Goers can 
be seen picnicking in the sun. As the and not let their fun get out of hand -Not exactly a Civil War but we went out and clock on O'Shag creeps closer to the nothing spoils a beautiful day on the found what Quad actually does "stuff." Here dinner hour. the beverages of choice quad (or a happy buzz) like getting are the number of people participating in 
often turn to alcoholic concoctions, car­busted for your drinking. Maybe stick­
various activities:

ried in cans by the bold or concealed in ing to slurping Grab-N-Go juice boxes is water bottles by the cautious. While the right idea. alcohol can add to the intoxication of springtime, revelers should be careful 
Music 

There are always a few bold souls who assume everyone on the quad will appreciate their musical taste. So they set their speakers in their dorm win­dows, make a killer playlist and let the tunes blare. Sometimes the entertain­ment is greatly appreciated, and adds to the party atmosphere of the quad. Other times an endless loop of Dave Matthews and the best of U93 can get more than a little annoying. And what happens when the wanna-be DJ for­gets to turn down his computer speak­ers, as one enthusiastic Dillon resident did last spring? Everyone on the quad gets to hear the constant. annoying rings of his IM going off at ear-piercing levels. Ah, the wonders of technology. 
Whether you are dozing on a blanket surrounded by unread books strum­ming a guitar under the shade of a tree or tossing the pigskin around with your roommates, when finals loom and the stress levels rise, Notre Dame stu­dents flee from the cinderblock cells of their dorm rooms to the grassy green outdoors. Studying and relaxing out­side has always been a springtime tra­dition. 
Sure, the sprinklers may unexpect­edly rouse you from a peaceful sleep, 0 Pieces of or the blazing sun may scorch your back as you ponder Plato, but the lure of the outdoors is strong, and the quads call each of us: the jock, the musician, the sunbather and the stu­dent. 2:5 Male/female ratio 1:2 
Amanda Greco and C. Spencer Heggs 
The numbers say it all. South Quad is
contributed to this article. 

· the better in the weather has lured facul-a great place to play, study and hang out. Maybe it's all that sun it gets. 


Monday, April 30, 2001
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
MEN'S LACROSSE 

Lacrosse accomplishments deserve recognition 



Lax 
continued from page 24 

I ' 
the tournament. 

"We have more depth this year at every position than ever before," he said. "We have been able to wear down 

By JOE LICANDRO Sports Writer 

While the Irish women's basketball team won the NCAA tournament this spring and the Irish baseball team achieved the No. 1 ranking in the country, the Irish lacrosse team has quietly put together the best season in the history of Irish lacrosse. 
The Irish went 5-0 in Great Western Lacrosse League divi­sional play to capture their second straight divisional title. Their only loss was an 11-10 overtime road loss to national­ly ranked Hofstra. The 12 wins by this year's team are the most wins ever in the 21-year history of Notre Dame 
CLASSIFIEDS 
lacrosse. 

Tom Glatzel and Notre Dame career assists leader David Ulrich are finalists for the Tewaaraton trophy that recog­nized the 
vating Notre Dame to the sta­tus of a lacrosse powerhouse. With the Irish adding scholar­ships for the first time next year and the emergence of juniors Devin 
nation's Ryan and John 
..rm especially proud of
most out­Flandina, their st anding our seniors. They are dominance is lacrosse not likely to
responsible for the 
player. stop in the near 
Notre Dame success of this program. •• future. is one of "I'm so proud only three of our team,"
Kevin Corrigan 
schools to said Corrigan.
lacrosse coach
feature two 'Tm especially players on proud of our the lists of seniors. They finalists for this coveted are responsible for the success award. of this program. Their accom­
Coach Kevin Corrigan and plishments should be recog­the Irish seniors should be nized because what they have especially commended for ele-done is absolutely amazing." 
teams and that has made a huge difference. We can't control where we are seeded so rm not even worried about who we play yet. At this point, our guys are just ready for the tournament to begin. I think we our capable of going all the way." 
Glatzel agreed with his 
coach's assessment of the Irish's post-season chances. 
"Winning this game 16-4 gives us a lot of confidence going into the tournament," he said. "It hasn't really hit me yet that this was my last home game, but now the fun begins. I think we're ready to do some damage in the tournament." 
Europe $199 one way. Studio apartment in quiet neighbor­Mexico/Carribbean or Central hood near Notre Dame. America $250 round trip plus tax. Unfurnished, cable, patio; $330/mo.
{ TICKETS 
Other world wide destinations Plus electric. Available June. 
' ' 
cheap. If you can beat these prices Telephone 616-687-8924. 
4 U2 Tickets 4 May 4 start your own airline. Book tickets Fri. Before Derby on line www.airtech.com or toll free Rent for fall semester Lexington, KY. (877)AIRTECH 4 bedrooms, 2 full baths, washer & Call 243-1487 dryer, basement w/hot tub, new fur-
WATERBED-great for off-campus. nace, security system. Call to see Need one ticket for graduation, call $60. Eric 277-7950 277-0636. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The: charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
1 br sublet 5/1 5-8/15, Downers Graduating seniors: Graduating Seniors: Looking to sell Grove, IL, w/d, dw, ale, great com• Looking to sell your apartment fumi• your apartment furniture (beds, plex, room for 2 people, ture (beds, desks, couches, etc)? desks, couches, etc?) ND juniors $890/rno+util Rachel 312-498-6579 ND juniors looking to buy. Call Nick looking to buy. Call Nick 4-4716 if 
at 4-4716 if interested. interested. 
CHICAGO APT. AVAILABLE FOR MAY THROUGH AUGUST IN LIN• Retired ND staffer & spouse wish to Are you moving to the DETROIT COLN PARK LOCATION. CLOSE apt. for summer. Reliable, non-area? The Notre Dame Club of TOEL smokers, no pets, have family in Detroit would like to welcome you to 1 or 2 BEDROOMS area. 135 Lakeview dr., Mulberry Fl. out area and extend an invitation to OWN BATHROOM 33860 (863) 425-4404 or call our join us at club events. Please join 
Mike at 246-9085 for info. 

Newly remodeled 5 bedroom house Need one ticket to graduation. Price Oakhill Condo -4 bdr/3 bath available to rent for fall semester. 2 negotiable. Call 4-3760 1/2 mile from campus full baths, washer & dryer, huge rec 
fireplace, deck, pool access room, security system. Call now to 2 tickets for graduation needed. Will $99,000/best offer see 277-0636 pay $$$ Call Dustin @ 243-1751 call Tim@ 612-802-0285 
Looking to share/sublet summer 1428 Marigold Way Northshore apartment. Will be performing Condo internship in South Bend May 13
FOR SALE 

Close to ND. 1 Bdrm, 1 bath, LR, through August 18. Non-smoker. 
II! We have balls !!I For Sale 9000 balls Suitable for dormroom ballpit Contact ar.odrig6@od edu 
'98 Honda Prelude 2 dr. sports coupe. Green/ivory. 42k miles. Excellent condition. One owner. New tires. Loaded. Sunroof. ABS. Spoiler. Great car. Call 1-4368 weekdays or 277-4605 after 5 pm. Parked in Stepan Center lot. 

DR & Kitchen include. All appl. 1 (419) 352-4136 car garage & large storage closet. (timgoodenow@yahoo.com) Condo fees inc. ext. maintenance, pool, tennis, club house, cable, gas Lakeview -1640 Byron -Bright 3 heat, water, sewer, trash, water bedroom duplex (2000 sq/ft) in heater & water softener. graystone two flat, enormous $72,500 kitchen, recessed lights, built-in Call Doris 255-7862 speakers. 2 1/2 new baths 
(Jacuzzi), hardwood floors, W/D include. Hi/Eff Furnace w/ AC, Deck $2100/mo one year lease only.
FOR RENT 
773/472-7775 or 800/323-8144 x 
640. 

Duplex apartment 1 mile from cam-
Bunk Bed/Futon-Fits ND mattress pus, good neighborhood. Oak Hill Condo for rent. 2 bdrm, 2 on top, couctv'double bed on bot-Downstairs large 2 BR $500/month. bath. Available June 1. 1-765-362­torn. $175 or best offer. 243-1366. Upstairs 1 large BR Laundry avail• 1040.AskforJohn 
Furniture for Sale (entertainment center w/ 27-TV and VCR (sepa­rate), desk, dresser, shelving unit, etc.) all in great condition! Prices negotiable. 
Call Dustin@ 243-1751. 

able for both. Landlord pays gas/water/trash. Mature 5-6 BR House, furnished, W/D, seniors/grads preferred 233-1604. Popular location, 10-mo. Lease. 
233-9947 Subleasing in turtle creek Town house available during sum-Lake living bear Bremen mer session. Call Nicloe Kenney at most pets okay 4-1346, or Jeny Kuehn at 4-1105 new 3 bedroom 
air, garage, disposal, dishwaher WOODBRIDGE CONDO 3·6 BDRM HOMES $950/month 18199 Stoneridge -Apt F $180 per person. Furn. page 219·935-7845 or call 546­1239 sq. ft. $84,300, 3 bedrooms, 1 Summer/Fall 4430 $780/mo. daughter locally at 256-2335. us this summer for a trip to the 1-312-443-6062 JAiME Second City Comedy Club, a golf 
Summer Sitter outing, monthly Happy Hours, a ROOMS FOR GRAD WEEKEND 2 families w/ four children (5-8) Tiger Game outing, and much, Wild Irish Rose Inn seek mature student who enjoys much morel To get involved with 
3rni north of campus children and will have fun creating the club please contact Rachel 
*brkfst buffet ea AM activities at the pool, beach, muse-Bradford-Smith 
•c1ean, comfortable & afford-urns, library. Car a must. Close to (!2iltaodca.Qtlel @12eo121ei;iQ.Q0m) or able ND. 9·5, M-F June 7 -Aug 24. AmyZwerk (2190 277-4303 or Jennifer@ 235-6551. (Amy.J.Zwerk@Accenture.com) or 
www ~illiiristlr.ose QQffi 
3 bdrm duplex 501 /503 Eddy St. Appliances, W/D 1 mile from campus 273-8332 or 250-7080 
Studio apartment in quiet neighbor­hood near Notre Dame. Unfurnished, cable, patio, $330/mo. Plus electric. Available June. Telephone 616-687-8924 
WANTED 
STUDENT/AMATUER PHOTOG­RAPHER wanted to photograph wedding at ND, May 12. Please have examples of work. Call Elizabeth 4-1447 check out the club website 
1 FEMALE ROOMMATE TO (htt1rllal1.1m .i od,edul-na,­SHARE 2-BEDROOM APT. det'home.trtmll. Thanks and best W/SENIOR FEMALE FOR NEXT YEAR. TURTLE CREEK. CALL 243-1487 
PERSONAL 

Not sure what to do with those old dorm room items? Will buy refriger­ators, computers, TVs, stereos, etc. Weather tor this week: Cloudy with Call Brian at4-1944 a chance of Mike Lane 
ROOMMATE WANTED  I whooped Batman's.  
For DC 2001-2002  
Dillon senior going to school in DC  Ironed, hair cut and danced all  
next year is looking for a cool roo•  night. The jury's in. You're a great  
mate to share apartment  date.  
CALL 4-0956  Janel, sorry I couldn't make the  
banquet. Can I book you for next  
Babysitter, pref. With own trans- year? I am marking my calendar  
portation, for two children, 2&6 yrs  now.  
in our home. Flexible hrs. 277•1037  

Hey Ben,  
Hoping to house sit or rent your  Not sure what to do with those old  LET'S GO BUFFALO!!!  
home, furnished/unfurnished, until  dorm room items? Will buy refriger- New York baby.  
summer 2002. Married couple,  ators, computers, TVs, stereos, etc.  Pens will lose four straight just like  
early 40s , professional + student,  Call Brian at 4-1944.  they did against the Flyers.  
no kids.  Call 616 697.5307 or  
270.659.0096  Indiana Catholic couple with huge  Anyone seen Matt Lately?  

1/2 baths, dining room, living room, 272-6306 hearts wishing to adopt a child. We 
kitchen. Condo fee $165 per month. An adorable 1.5 bdrm. House w/ Summer daytime sitter for three can provide your baby with lots of Serious lssues!!!H 
The Hickey Group-Karen castelluc-Pebbles of Brandywine Creek garage by St. Patrick's park. 702· girls ages 12 to 5. 273-3010 love and a secure, stable life. 
cio 674-1682 Bed and Breakfast 436-1594. Reasonable expenses will be paid. Why am I still here? Niles, 15 mins from Notre Dame FEMALE ROOMMATE ­
Relax and enjoy life in this beautiful 616-687-8924 Rent for fall semester DETROIT SUBURBS For more info, please call Rebecca Hey Emily, 
two bedroom condominium watch-mmrnre .lals@aol QQm 4 bedrooms, 2 full baths, Join another '01 ND grad! re Larry and Cathy: toll-free 1-866-Only 3 days left. 
ing the St. Joseph River. This North washer&dryer, basement w/ hot Call Alison 4-2339 30-ADOPT. VAY! 
Shore Club condo, close to cam-EXECUTIVE SUITE: One bedroom tub, new furnance, security system. 
pus, has a ceramic tiled entryway furnished executive suite Ncable & Call 277-0636 SECRETARIAL WORK LADIES: Take a study break and Christine, 
and kitchen floor, with mirrored bar, local phone, housekeeping included Part-Tir.ie/work at home-Word pro-meet guys, make fun of them, or We're going out in style. 
whirlpool bath, large bedrooms, 1.5 @ $60/night (football/graduation Newly remodeled 5 bedroom house cessing from dictation involving both with the new ThatGuy! Game. What a way to polish off our 
baths and storage shed. weekend rates higher). (219) 271-available to rent for fall semester. 2 client case studies. Must have com-As seen in In Style, Glamour & Observer careers. 
Call Century 21 Goldstar office, 6808 or e-mail: www.belleterre-full baths, washer & dryer, huge rec puter. Dictaphone provided. Call for Entertainment Weekly. Endless How fitting! 
272-2121 or 235-7207. Ask for suite@aol.com. ND Alum room, security system. Call now to info+interview, mornings M-Thur. Fun! $9.99 at 
John Beard. owned/managed. Near ND. see 277-0636 Ask for Cindy. 287-3373 www tt:Jatgu~game.!.Qm BYE 
Monday, April 30, 200l page 15
The Observer . SPORTS 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXX 
Top seeds Five Reasons, Versatility advance to Final Four 
ByJEFF BALTRUZAK 
Assistant Sports Editor 
With such a well-played game, it should have ended with a behind-the-backboard lay-up or a thundering dunk. 
But No. 1 Five Reasons Your Girl Left You's 26-24 victory over No. 9 Project Mayhem ended anticlimactically with a Pete Ryan foul shot. 
And once the shot swished through the net, the very involved crowd stood almost still, watching two teams exchange hugs and respect that reflected a game where both squads had the ball with a chance to win the game. 
"Pete's been there," said Five Reasons' point guard Kevin Muempfer, commenting on his team's experience. "We didn't panic down the stretch." 
The stretch would feature a portion of the game where Ryan was Five Reasons' only offense. The senior scored points 15 through 18 for his team while teammate Dan Lustig was neutralized by Mayhem. 
But first-team all-tourna­ment selection Lustig reap­peared very late in the game, right when his team needed his deft scoring touch. He scored three consecutive points for Five Reasons to reach 24 points, and had a 
OFF CAMPUS SECURITY INFORMATION SESSION 
. 

with Rex Rakow, asst. director, NDSP 
Present and future off campus students are welcome to come and joinin an informative discussion about security precautions. 
•
Pointers from Rex Rakow 

•
Special Q&ASession with SBPD and NDSP Tuesday, May 1 7:00 p.m, 131 Debartolo 


monstrous shot block that 
gave Five Reasons the winning 
possession. 
Muempfer, a first-team all­tournament pick, pointe d to Five Reasons' strategy as the difference in the tight contest. 
''I felt running high screens was effective for us," he said. "We took advantage of some mismatches from that down the stretch." 
For Mayhem, strong front court play from Brian Rush and Doug Wilson kept the ninth seed from being over­powered by Five Reasons. Rush repeatedly out dueled the taller Paul Raih for key rebounds, while putting up the final two buckets of a six point· Mayhem scoring run that closed the first half. 
Fellow Mayhem forward Jason Mayes, the Ironman award winner, was quick to recognize Rush's strong play inside. 
"Rush had a great game," said Mayes. "He was the key to us." 
Mayhem guard Luke Mueller gave his team an opportunity to seal the upset when he hit a jump shot to run the score to 23-22 in favor of Mayhem. But Five Reason's defense tight­ened, and when Lustig hit a shot to tie the game, Mayhem would never lead again. 
Despite his team's loss, Mayes said his team played the No. 1 seed tough. 'Tm dis­appointed we lost, but we played well," he said. 
In other round of eight action, No. 2 Versatility used a late run to stop the No. 7 seed­ed Freeballers 21-15. The Freeballers would score only one of the last eight points in the game. 
John Hiltz of Versatility showcased a multi-faceted basketball ability, hitting long range shots and lay-ups, fight­ing for rebounds and dishing assists to teammates Chris Dillon, Joe Lillis. Jason Childress and Tim Greene. 
But it was defense that Hiltz would credit Versatility's vic­tory. 
"Defense is always going to win games and champi­onships," said Hiltz, who scored nine on the day. "It's not always pretty, but it was the key to our game. We ma'de them take some tough shots." 
For a while, Freeballers made those tough shots. The teams exchanged leads for most of the first half, with the Freeballers' frontcourt tandem of Tony Carney and Grant Gholsen playing with determi­nation . 
The second half would be short. Gholsen hit a pair of shots to knot the game at 14, but then Hiltz took over the game. He had three points in a Versatility run that made the score 19-14. 
He later hit a free throw to win the game and propel his team into the Final Four. 
PGA TOUR 
Hoch wins Greater Greensboro Classic 
disadvantage to his straight

Associated Press 
game. Then the 22-year PGA TourGREENSBORO, N.C. 
veteran went out and broke a
Talk about eating your 
94-tournament drought with
words. 
four sub-70 rounds to win theScott Hoch complained for $3.5 million event at Forestdays that shorter rough at the Oaks Country Club. 
Greater Greensboro Chrysler After closing out his final­Classic favored longer, wilder round 69 Sunday. Hoch pickedhitters off the tee and was a 
up some rough behind the 

We're just trying to change the lives of a few kids. Four thousand inner-city kids in Newark, NJ, to be exact. We have this crazy idea that summer schools, after-school programs, trips to a eladership camp and comprehensive medical care will give our students a fair shot. 
We're not trying to change the world, but we're pretty sure our students will. 

For more info on becoming a student teacher or camp instructor this summer, Call 973-877-0980 
Or visit www.kidscorporation.org 
18th green and threw it high into the air. "I said, 'Hey, the rough was perfect after all,"' Hoch said. 
Hoch, 45, won his ninth event and first since the 1997 Greater Milwaukee Open with a 72-hole total of 16-under 272. 
At his age, Hoch said he wondered if he would ever win again. 
"Age has got to have some­thing to do with your game, but I also wanted to prove to myself that I've got the game no matter what age I am ­that I can still win," Hoch said. 
Hoch. who was born in Raleigh and attended college at nearby Wake Forest, had only played in this tournament once (1999) in the last decade. And he almost didn't come this time, committing late and then checking the weather on his computer before heading north from his home in Orlando, Fla., on Monday to join a field that had just 17 of the top 50 money leaders. 
Once at the course, Hoch griped that the rough was 3 inches shorter than normal. saying he would have stayed at home if he knew it had been cut. 
Monday, April 30, 2001 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 

FOOTBALL 
Captains to lead Irish on gridiron in 200 I season 
helping and contributing to By NOAH AMSTADTER this team." 
Sports Editor Irons refuses to look back at last season, instead focusing In the lower levels of a Notre on making the most of his final Dame Stadium undergoing year in the shadow of the 
repairs, Bob Davie stressed Dome. 
r the foundation of the Irish "It was definitely tough," football program is indeed Irons, the last player to leave rock solid. the on-field autograph session The keys to that foundation after Saturday's game, said of are the program's seniors. sitting out last season. And before Saturday after­"Through the encouragement noon's Blue-Gold Scrimmage, of my teammates, the encour­the Irish head coach named agement of my parents and my 
I 
l 
the four seniors voted 2001 family and the grace of God, I 
L I 
I captains by their teammates. was able to overcome that Defensive ends Anthony adversity. Now I'm moving on, Weaver and Grant Irons, along moving forward to help this 
I \ 
with flanker David Givens and team be the best we can." outside linebacker Rocky After the scrimmage Davie Boiman, will lead the team in reflected on how Givens nearly the fall. decided against coming to "We've got four outstanding Notre Dame three years ago. captains," Davie said. "And I "He was going to go to think we have some other Michigan or he was going to leaders on this football team. go to Colorado," Davie said of So I'm excited and I'm not his leading receiver in 2000. going to stand up here and try "He had great visits, loved the to hide that." campus, loved everything Davie stressed that the rising about them. In the end he senior class, having endured came to Notre Dame because bowl game losses in 1998 and he knew what was best for 2000 while going 5-7 in 1999, him -not because he really possesses the experience wanted to but because he needed to lead a successful knew what was best for him." program. Givens remembers that peri­"The senior class we have od well and stresses that acad­coming back is as strong as emics led him to South Bend. 
under my wing. It puts a little means so much to me." Boiman said. "It's even more
we've had in the eight years "It came down to where I 
more of a leadership role on The quiet, yet determined of an honor just to be a part of
I've been here at Notre thought my best opportunity 
my shoulders and I'm willing Weaver also says he won't this team with the guys we
Dame," Davie said. "It's not would be after football," 
to accept that." change his demeanor. have coming back and the sea­
only a talented senior class, Givens said. "I figured a 

One of his top advocates is ''I'm going to go out there, son we're about to have."
it's a class that's been through degree from Notre Dame 
offensive coordinator Kevin I'm going to try to lead by Boiman also noticed that
a lot and a class that's really would be worth a lot more 
Rogers. "If I had a vote. he example," Weaver said. "I'm three of the four captains are
grown." than Colorado or Michigan. 
would have gotten my vote," not going to be a rah-rah guy, defensive players. 
Irons, who also served as a That's what it came down to." 
Rogers said. "He's not only a I've never been a rah-rah guy. "It just exemplifies how
captain last fall, was awarded Today, Givens just grins 
good player but he works his I'm going to go out there, play much leadership the defense
a fifth year of eligibility after when talking about the honor 
butt off every day. Every day my game and hopefully the has for all three of us to be
playing in only two contests of serving as an Irish captain. 
he's got his lunch pail with young guys will follow." named captains,'' Boiman said. 
during the 2000 season before "I think it's a great honor 
him. He's one of those guys, Davie stressed his happiness In the end, Davie thinks his
! 
undergoing shoulder surgery. because my teammates have 
whether it's in the weight with the way linebacker four captains will give his
The president of the Student­respect for me in that way." he 
room or on the practice field, Boiman has developed over team the leadership it needs to 
C' Athlete Advisory Council is said. "It's basically one of the 
everything is flat out." the last three seasons. succeed come fall.
excited to return to lead the highest accomplishments I 
Weaver boasts 32 career "Rocky Boiman comes in "All we've talked about all
team in the fall, this spring could have had in college foot­
starts along with a team-high here, he's 205 pounds, he's spring, really since the [Fiesta
from the field rather than the ball I'm really happy about 
eight sacks in 2000. He echoed now 245 pounds," Davie said. Bowl loss to Oregon State], is
sideline. that." 
the sentiments of his fellow " I think he's a warrior." to take this thing to another
"I'm very honored to be But the Humble, Texas 
captains, stating that his title The red-haired Cincinnati level," Davie said. "It doesn't
selected by my teammates, to native knows that with honor 
is a dream come true. native is Notre Dame's top matter what you're trying to
be on a team that is a team of comes responsibility. 
"I've been a Notre Dame fan returning tackler. While take to another level, you bet­
leaders, .. said Irons. who "Once you 're a captain 
since I was a little kid," Boiman, who missed the Blue­ter have a strong foundation,

missed the Blue-Gold game there's a close eye on you," 
Weaver said. "To actually be a G old game with an injured if you're going to make those
after undergoing eye surgery. Givens said. "You've got to 
captain of the football team, knee, enjoys his new role, he kinds of statements. If you're
'Tm very excited to be a part show more of a leadership 
that's huge. Especially this really is just excited to take going. to put floors on the
of this team, to have an oppor­role. Basically I'm the only 
tunity to come back for a fifth captain on offense right now. I group of guys, to know that the field come fall. building, you better have a they voted me captain, it "It's a tremendous honor," strong foundation." 
year. I'm looking forward to feel I've got to take the offense 




QB's 
continued from page 24 

Matt LoVecchio, Carlyle Holiday, and Jared Clark this spring, Davie has a lot of difficult decid­ing to do. 
Sure, they looked good at Saturday's scrimmage. It's not like Davie and Co. would be con­sidering playing them if they couldn't play well. 
"All three guys can play the position," said offensive coordi­nator Kevin Rogers. "We wouldn't have recruited them if they couldn't." 
A poised LoVecchio led the offense down the field on the first drive of the game and con­nected with David Givens on a 48-yard bomb late in the fourth quarter. 

Holiday was eluding and out­running defenders all day long. He had a number of impressive runs -and that was playing one-hand touch. Had the scrim­mage been full contact, he would have had many, many more yards -and at least one touch­down. 
And Clark showed why he's the best at throwing the long ball when he hit Givens in stride with a perfect spiral from 44 yards out. 
"Every day in the spring, a dif­ferent quarterback would do positive things," Davie said. "I think you saw that today." 
We also saw their shortcom­ings. 

While Lovecchio looked the most comfortable of the three, he also was a little cautious and impatient. Even he admitted that he had to trust the offensive line a little more and stay in the pocket instead of taking off run­ning. And the quarterback who will start against Nebraska only completed 3-of-10 passes. 
On his passes, Holiday showed his lack of experience. His one interception, a pass to Arnaz Battle that was picked off by Clifford Jefferson, was thrown into triple coverage in the middle of the field. 
And a jittery Clark had a horri­ble first half. The best play he made was a defensive one, when he leveled Donald Dykes, who had just scooped up Mike McNair's fumble. If he was mak­ing a highlight film, he might as well throw out his entire first half. 
Granted, you can't evaluate the trio's performance based on Saturday alone. 
For example. in a scrimmage a week ago, it was Clark who stood out while Holiday strug­gled. 
"They're by no means a fin­ished product," said offensive coordinator Kevin Rogers. "They're still a work in progress." 
Davie's done a pretty good job so far. 
He's named Lovecchio the starting quarterback heading into the season opener at Nebraska. He'd be an idiot not to. Lovecchio is the only quarter­back who has even taken a snap in a game. 
"I just feel better having seen Matt Lovecchio in a game," Davie said. "When we walk out there in Llncoln, I want a guy that's been under the gun." 
Even Holiday said that Lovecchio had the edge going into Nebraska. 
"That really big crowd is a lit­tle bit different," he said. "LoVecchio's been through that." 
Davie has also done a good job making sure the trio gets equal snaps. He doesn't want a repeat of last year, when Battle was injured and the Irish had no backup. 
Most importantly, Davie and Rogers have done a remarkable job making sure the chemistry between the three stays strong -Clark even called the competi­tion "fun." 
They're all young, they're play­ing in the same system and they're getting the same oppor­tunities in practice. And Lovecchio, Holiday, and Clark are good friends on and off the field. No matter what happens next year, there's no sign right now that this will change. 
But problems could surface next fall. Davie and Rogers haven't yet figured out how they're going to use Holiday and Clark. The only thing they know for sure is that all three have to play. 
"Matt Lovecchio is the starter, but you have to see that we have to get those other two guys in the game," he said. 
All three quarterbacks are equally talented. The only edge LoVecchio has is that he's played a down. 
"It's impossible really to take those eight games away," Holiday said. 
"There's no substitute for experience," Rogers added. 
Which begs the question: how long will LoVecchio's experience keep him on top? 
It's LoVecchio'sjob to lose ­rightfully so -because although Clark and Holiday might throw and run better, he was the one who won seven straight games last year. Everyone knows that. And as long as he keeps winning, he should still be the starter. 
But what if the Irish lose at Nebraska? Or Purdue? Or Michigan State? 
That's when things could get hairy. 
"It's kind of like being a jet pilot," Rogers said. "You have to make decisions at a thousand miles per hour." 

Monday, April 30, 200I page 17
The Observer . SPORTS 
offense on an 11 play, 62 yard 
drive that ended in a Nick Setta
Game 
field goal on the first possession 
continued from page 24 of the game. Lovecchio, who fin­
ished 3-of-10 passing for 48 
Although Davie seemed yards, threw a strike to Givens 
pleased by the team's perfor­late in the fourth quarter for the 
mance, he said it was hard to tell second and final touchdown of 
anything from the spring game. the game. 
"It's hard to draw any conclu­"He's the starter going into the 
sions," he said. "It's obvious that Nebraska game," Davie said. 
it was very vanilla from a However, the number of 
scheme _standpoint. That's by turnovers worried Davie. There 
intention." were three interceptions and the 
Entering the game, one of the defense recovered two fumbles. biggest questions was how the ..When you turn the ball over three quarterbacks -Jared there is going to be a bunch of Clark, Carlyle Holiday and Matt points for the other team," he LoVecchio -would play. They said. "We had some turnovers in rotated every series the first half, and we gave up Lovecchio played the first, Clark some big plays on defense. the second, and Holiday the Davie was also concerned with · third. While Lovecchio looked an offensive line that gave up 12 the most poised, Clark and sacks. Holiday had their moments as 'Tm a little concerned about well. our pass protection," he said. 
However, Clark got off to a "There's not much continuity on slow start. He threw an intercep­the offensive line." tion that cornerback Shane Based on his spring perfor­Walton returned 44 yards for a mance, Davie said Sean Mahan touchdown and fumbled a snap, would earn a starting spot at which nose guard Andy Wisne guard. However, the other spot recovered. was still open, and Davie isn't 
But in the second half, Clark sure how the Irish will rotate settled down. He threw a 4 7 -their trio of tackles. yard strike to Givens and fin­Arnaz Battle made an impres­ished the scrimmage with 3-of-8 sive debut at wide receiver. He passing for 78 yards. caught three passes for 38 yards 
"I was really pleased Jared and rushed twice for 13 yards. Clark came back in the second Battle showed his athleticism on defensive MVP. started the scor­spring, really since the bowl Watson was listed ahead of Mike half," Davie said. one 17-yard run, where he out­ing deluge with his interception game, b to take this thing to Goolsby for a linebacker slot. 
"I think that's a great experi­sprinted the defense and hurdled return, worth 12 points under another level." . Although he badly missed a ence for him, to be in the tank a defender. the modified scoring system used "This is a group of kids that 45-yard field goal during the the first half and come back in "You can see now what we for Saturday's scrimmage. you're going to really like scrimmage, Davie said Nick the second half and make some saw this spring," Davie said. "Obviously, on defense, we because they're going to try to Setta would be the starting field plays." Rising sophomore Kyle don't get our hands on the ball do what you're asking them to goal kicker. Setta hit 4-of-4 field 
Holiday also showed off his Budinscak turned in an impres­much," he said. "When we do, do," added Mattison. "We have goals in a kicking exhibition athletic ability. He gained 31 sive defensive performance. The we try to take it to the house." enough good things going on before the scrimmage started. yards on the ground -his net defensive tackle recorded seven Clifford Jefferson also inter­that I think we have a chance to Setta a1so hit a 29-yard attempt yardage was three because he tackles and five sacks. In fact, cepted a Holiday pass in the be outstanding if we can contin­during the scrimmage. was sacked four times -and before the spring starter. fourth quarter. ue to develop over the summer," David Miller also connected on threw for 66 more. But he was Budinscak was listed as an end, "It was my first interception in Davie said. a 45-yard field goal before the hampered by the red jersey not a tackle. a game like this, so I was pretty "Things look pretty good and I game started, and he drilled a worn by the quarterbacks -"When you watch him on film happy," he said. "It made me think we have a good chance to 37-yarder during the game. anytime he was touched, it was you can see he plays with a high feel good." be successful." However, Davie was concerned instantly ruled a tackle. motor," said Mattison said. "He Mattison was only concerned about who would handle kickoff
Notes 
"Those offensive coaches kept has very, very explosive move­with the defensive line, especial­duties. "I'm concerned about
. Fourteen scholarship play­
whining, 'He would have broken ment and has been playing with ly on the two long touchdown kickoffs because neither one has
ers, including nine starters, did 
passes. the advantage," he said.
that tackle,"' Davie said. a lot of toughness." not compete Saturday because of 
"Carlyle's gonna make you miss. Mike McNair and Terrance "That wasn't the secondary's "There's going to be a lot of com­
various injuries. Among those 
I think that was missing today a Howard shared most of the tail­fault, nobody could have covered who didn't compete were cor:­petition kicking off." little bit. To be honest, he would back duties. Howard led all them that long," he said. "We nerback Jason Beckstrom, line­. The announced attendance have had some big runs and rushers with 58 yards on 13 car­didn't gain one inch when we was 20,694 -nearly 6,000
backer Rocky Boiman, tailback 
ries, but McNair -who has were rushing. I pointed up to the more than attended last season's 
might have scored a touch­Tony Fisher, defensive end Grant 
down." been shiftedbetween fullback crowd and I said, 'I could have game. Included in that were
Irons, safeties Ron Israel and 
and tailback this spring -picked anyone up there who most of the incoming freshman
"The spring game is a great Gerome Sapp and offensive line­
opportunity to learn," Holiday rushed nine times for 50 yards. could have completed that Ryan Scarola and John class of recruits -most notably.
men said. "I felt me and Jared really Fullback Chris Yura added 35 pass."' Teasdale. tight end Mark LeVoir, the high­
yards on six carries. Overall, Davie seemed pleased est rated Irish recruit -as well
took advantage of that." . Davie said that if the season 
Lovecchio looked the experi­The game was tied 7 -7 before by the team's performance. started today, McNair would a number of high profile high enced quarterback he was right Walton jump-started the "I like this football team. I like earn the starting fullback job school juniors who are consider­out of the gate, leading the defense's scoring spurt. this football team a lot," he said. over Yura. Also, Courtney ing playing football at Notre 
Walton, who was named "All we've talked about all Dame. 

HOMES FOR RENT 
2002 -2003 SCHOOL YEAR 

..DQMUS PROPERTIES HAS 2, 4, 5, 6, 1, 8.9 &10· 
BEDROOM HOUSES AVAILABLE -STUDENT NEIGHBORSHOODS -CLOSE TO CAMPUS ..SECURITY SYSTEMS PROVIDED -WELL MAINTANED HOMES -MAJNTENANCE STAFF ON CALL ~WASHER AND DRYERS 

AVAILABLE FOR THE 2002-2003 SCHOOL YEAR LEASING NOW DOMUS PROPERTIES 
CONTACT KRAMER (219) 298-9673 OR (219) 234-2436 OR (219) 674..2571 
....----=------------------------------··-.··--······-·· -·-·--­

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, April 30, 2001 
MEN'S GOLF 

Irish place fifth at Big East despite Ratay's top finish 
1\. 

with a 902 total. while Krusoe droppHri..a stroke they shot a 10-over par 290 to 15-over par total of 215 (78-78­
Special to The Observer 

Ratay becomes the third with a two-over 72 on the par finish with a 902 (307-305-69) which put him in a tie for Notre Dame golfer to win the 70, 6,464-yard Metacomet 290). Virginia Tech, ranked 14th. 10 strokes behind the
Notre Dame junior golfer 
Big East title joining previous Country Club course. This 22nd in the nation, was three three top finishers. 
Steve Ratay shot a one-over par 
winners, marks the second time this sea­strokes better than Notre Dame Senior Alex Kent finished in a71 on Sunday afternoon at the 
T o d d 
son that Ratay has tied for a over the final 18 holes with a tie for 17th with a 54-hole total Metacomet Country Club for a 
Vernon tournament championship as seven-over par 287 on the way of 228 as he followed rounds of 54-hole total of 215 to take a 
(1997) and he also finished in a first place to the Hokies' 875 (291-297-77 and 76 on Saturday with ashare of the 2001 Big East Golf 
Bill Moore tie at the Wisconsin Invitational 287). St. John's was second closing round 75. Championship. 
(1995) as in the fall. with an 884 (304-286-294) Brandon Lunke was 27th onRatay, finished in a three-way 
tourney The junior standout made his while Rutgers was third with an the weekend with a 237 mark i tie for first. joining St. John's 
\ medalist. run to the three-way champi­897 (300-304-293), followed by as he turned in a 76 on Sunday
Andrew Svoboda and Virginia
I 
He began onship on the strength of his Georgetown in fourth with a after opening rounds of 84 andTech's Brian Krusoe with five­
play on play on the course's par five 900 (305-296-299) with Notre 77. Senior Pat Schaffter fin­over par 215's. Virginia Tech Sunday tied Ratay holes. For the weekend, Ratay Dame fifth and Seton Hall sixth ished28th overall as he shot a
won the team title by nine
1 for second, averaged a 3.83 on the two (904/298-300-306}. final round 75 to give him a
strokes over St. John's with an
1 875 total and will receive the with Svoboda, just one stroke par-fives, going seven-under for Irish sophomore Kyle Monfort 240 total (82-83-75). behind Krusoe after 36-holes of the six holes. tied for the best single round of The Big East Championship
conference's automatic bid to 
play. Ratay and Svoboda shot As a team, the Irish had the the final day as he fired a one­closed out the spring schedule
the NCAA Championships in 
one-over par 71's for the day, second best round of the day as under par 69 on the way to a for the Fighting Irish. 
May. The Irish finished fifth 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Notre Dame improves to 10-4 with win over Rutgers 
I ,· 
Special to The Observer 

The Notre Dame women's lacrosse team defeated both Rutgers and adversity in a
r penalty-stricken match Sunday. 
I 
The Irish (10-4) defeated the Scarlet Knights (7-9) despite penalties and hard play by Big East foe Rutgers. 
After 60 minutes of play, the scoreboard read 12-8. The score, however, did not reflect the game. 
f 
Sunday was the last home game of the season for the Irish who honored their seniors before the game. 
This year marked the first year that the graduating seniors were members of aI recruiting class. The seniors were honored
' 
Sunday with a beautiful day, the largest crowd of the year and a victory giving them their first-ever 10-win season. 
But the seniors were not the only ones making the game special. They were given a 
. strong tribute by junior Natalie Loftus, sophomores Danielle Shearer and Jen White and
ii 
) freshman Kassen Delano. 
The game started out well for the Irish as they opened up with goals from Delano and Shearer. 

Another Delano goal, both assisted by Shearer, came after a Rutgers score. Delano would . later secure the hat trick within the first half. 
Shearer later finished off her own hat trick and added three assists to lead the team with six points overall. 

The next 15 minutes of the game became a duel between the two goalies as both teams were held scoreless. The Irish goalkeeper, White, ended up with nine saves. 
The rest of the first half showcased back and forth scor-
Please Recycle The Observer. 
ing as neither team budged in what would turn out to be a very intense game. The Irish led 6-5 going into the locker room. 
The second half played out much the same when not look­ing at stats. 
Penalties were called almost constantly throughout play and one call forced a stoppage of play as Notre Dame head coach Tracy Coyne contested the rul­ing. 
Despite the Irish maintaining most of the ball possession, it seemed as if the referees had it out for Notre Dame as frustra­tion hit the players on the field. However, this seemed to only spark the Irish attack. 
While still getting rock-solid play from White, the offense managed to get great transition from the defense and scored the first six goals of the second half. 
White left the game with just under three minutes remaining in the game having given up only five goals to her nine saves. 
Rutgers scored the final three goals bringing the final score to 12-8, but the score hardly 
. . . ' . . 
't ~:.{•;{~~t· ~t-::,ft\:i:~~:'t,:. 
•~·;;?,,.., ····.:· :;.:';_ •. :--­


\lt*1~r1;E~~.~g239-66l 1 
1 
.~~~~,~

f;i~~~t·/.:::_::,·~~·....· 
showed the play that occurred These numbers truly showed on the field. The Irish out shot the intensity with which the the Scarlet Knights 29-22 as two teams played while the well as out drew Rutgers 12-score is misleading. 
10. Notre Dame next plays at No. 

4tter Where -Y-ou J\11:ay Ci-o~.t·'·lf~rvour 'Financial.~eeds ~ay Be~ 
Will ·_A_lways Be .A_s Close _A_s www.ndfcu.org 



"''t•i:·· 

~ 
NOTRE DAME 800/522-661 1 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You can bank on us to be bettor 
Ind~pendenl: of' t.he Untve.-.ity 
i ¦ ~!d'(ii 

10 Syracuse on May 5. The Irish will work on their best record in school history, hoping to make it 11 before the play­offs. 




Monday, April 30, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
Givens sheds some light on Irish expectations 
It's almost May, and that can 

only mean one thing. Football. As a lot of students are get­
ting ready to leave campus for the sum­mer, a select few are already looking forward to next fall. 
The Notre Dame foot­ball team. which played the 72nd annual Blue-Gold spring game Saturday (don't ask about the score -I'm still try­ing to figure out that 17 point touchdown), is already in the midst of preparation for the 2001 season. 
In what seems to be becom­ing a "Fox Sports ... Almost" tradition, if anyone besides myself remembers what I wrote about a year ago, I talked to rising senior wideout David Givens about everything from next season's goals to trash talking before the play starts. 
Oh, and incidentally, it was announced on Saturday that David is one of the four co­captains of the 2001 squad. 
I heard that rumors he would be featured in this col­umn catapulted him to that position. 
Hey. Stop laughing. 

Anyway, what follows is part of our conversation. My first question refers to what David told me a year ago, that Notre Dame's goal for 2000 was to win the national title. 


TF: Do you think after this last season you proved to them [critics] that it's realistic [to win it all], and were you guys satisfied with last season, or is there still a lot more you want to do? 
DG: I think it's possible that we could win a national cham­pionship this coming year. It's our goal, still. As any player, it's going to be your goal every year coming into a season. It's an attainable goal. I'm not reaching too far. It's not a goal that I've set too high for us. But sure. that's the goal, com­ing up this year. 
TF: After the 5-7 season, people were saying: "Notre Dame can't get players because their admissions stan­dards are too high," and I remember you told me that: "We can play with anyone in the country." Do you think after last year ... you kind of showed people what you knew all along? 
DG: Yeah, I think we did make a pretty strong state­ment that having high acade­mic standards doesn't make any difference as far as having goQd athletes. If it was a change of two different plays, we could be [11-0] this year. The Michigan State game and the Nebraska game, we're one play away from winning both of those games. 
So I think we did prove our­selves ... pretty well. 
TF: Obviously, the Fiesta Bowl didn't go the way you guys wanted it to go. Can you just talk about that a little, in terms of the game itself, and if you guys now use that as something to ... motivate you for this upcoming season. 
DG: The Fiesta Bowl wasn't a good display for our team as a whole. We played bad all the way around. It is a big motiva­tion due to the fact that we think we are better this year as a team than we were last year. And we did make it to the Fiesta Bowl. 
It's just something that we can look forward to next year to go to a bigger bowl. 
But we don't sit there every­day in practice and reminisce on the Fiesta Bowl. 
That's behind us. We put the negative behind us and build on from there. 
TF: No "Remember Tempe"? 
DG: Yeah. 
TF: Having a chance to go 
play a Nebraska at Nebraska -is that something you guys really look forward to being able to do that? 
DG: Any big game, we're looking forward to, period. Not necessarily playing them on the road, but I don't think that's going to be a factor. Last year we played Nebraska [at] home, and it felt like a road game. Playing them next year, away, is going to be just like playing them here last year. I didn't really appreciate that too much ... and I don't think any of [my] teammates did, and I hope that never happens again. 
Those away games are just like home games. You go in the game focused, and it's time to play when the ball is kicked off. Whether it be home or away, it's time to play ball. 
TF: When you line up as a wide receiver ... is there any­thing in particular that you're thinking? Are you thinking about how you're going to beat the defensive back? Are you talking to the defensive back? 
DG: First of all, every time I step on the field, no matter where it is, what position ... I feel like I'm the best player on 

THURSDAY MAY 3: OPEN6:30AM CLOSE 10:00PM FRIDAY MAY 4: OPEN6:30AM CLOSE 3:00AM 

the field. That's just my men­
tality, my focus on the field, 
there's nobody out there bet­
ter than me. I may talk a little 
trash. Talking trash is not part 
of the game, but getting into 
the other player's head is part 
of the game. 
TF: Now everyone's seen 
that you were a BCS team [last 
year]. Is there something that 
you still think that drives this 
team ... that people don't 
know about Notre Dame foot­
ball right now. that you think 
when you guys go out there 
and take the field in 
September that you're going to 
surprise them again? 
DG: I think the number one , thing that we'll probably sur­
prise people with is our speed 
this year. A lot of times, in the 
media, it says Notre Dame has no speed, they have no good athletes. But we've got at least 10 guys who ran either 4.4 40's, or below. I think the number one thing will be our speed, and you'll see guys out there having fun. In the past, when we were 5-7, as a view­er of the game, sitting on the sideline, watching guys play, it looked like they weren't hav­ing too much fun. It probably looked the same in the audi­ence. We will be enthusiastic out there, having fun, and you will see lots of guys flying around. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessairly those of The Observer. 

NEED CASH? 
NEW DONORS EARN. $20 TODAY· 
MENTION THIS AD 
F0RA$5.00 
.BONUS 
Up to $145.00 a ­mont-h in· 2-4 hours a week 

SATURDAY MAY 5: OPEN 10:00AM CLOSE 3:00AM 
SERA CARE PLASMA
SUNDAY MAY 6: OPEN 1:00PM CLOSE 3:00AM 
10:00pm FREE LATE NIGHT SNACKS!!rl 
234-601 0 515 LINCOLNWAY WEST 

.. 
page 20 Monday, April 30, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXX 
Nylon Strokers, Verzatility advance 
I , 
By I.AUREN CONTI 
Sports Writer 


It was a close contest Saturday on the Stepan Courts, as the Nylon Strokers picked up a 21 • 17 victory against the 14th-seeded Lazy Boyz. 
The Lazy Boyz were riding high after upsetting third-seed­ed NDToday.com on Thursday night, but not quite high enough to dominate the aggres­sive style ofthe Strokers. 
"We may not be as pretty as some of the other ranked teams," said the Nylon Strokers' Courtney Watson. "But we go out there and play hard and rebound hard, and it's gotten us where we need to be." 
The Strokers took a 5-2 lead early on behind an aggressive offense and dominated for most of the rest of the game. 
Both teams played a physical and fast game right from the start. The crowd got rowdier and the court was tense toward the second half, as a few of the Lazy Boyz players hit the ground amidst questionable calls. 
"The inconsistency of the calls was detrimental to the game," said the Lazy Boyz' Daniel Boston. "When the refs let the game get out of control, it hindered the play of both teams." 
"The refing at these games is a hard job, to be honest, I don't even like to talk about it, because it's not something either team can control." said Watson. "The other guys played a fair game, though. I'd say they were the best team we've had to play so far." 
The Strokers took an early 5. 2 lead despite the calls, and led 11-8 at the half. 
"We give· credit to their tenacity on the defensive end," said Boston. "I think it really made the difference." 
Though the Lazy Boyz tied it up more than once after the half, the Strokers quickly answered every point and eventually won by a solid four point margin. 
"We didn't play our best ball," said Boston. "Today is not an indication of the team we usually are. But next year we'll be back." 
In another Elite Eight game, 13th-seeded Verzatility contin­ued its upset run Friday on Stepan Courts by defeating fifth-seeded Please Call Us Bosephus 21-17. 
Verzatility has now defeated both the fourth and fifth seeds on its way to gaining a coveted spot in the Bookstore Basketball Final Four. 
"\'Ve beat the Majesties on Thursday. and then to beat Bosephus was great," said Verzatility's Brian MacKinnon. 
Verzatility took an early lead over Bosephus, holding them 11-7 at the half. Solid shooting by senior Hunt Hanover was key. allowing Verzatility to hold the lead despite tough defense as Bosephus missed several shots. 
"We knew Hunt was going to be their go-to guy," said Bosephus' Brian Ostick. "We played good 'D' on him, but he still made some tough shots." 
In the second half, a run of four missed free throw oppor­tunities ultimately doomed Bosephus, as Verzatility was able to capitalize on their aggressive play and solidify a five-point lead late in the half. 
"Our shots were in and out " said Ostick, a first•team ali­tourn ament selection. "On another day, the outcome could have been different. We didn't play like we usually can, and I give them credit for taking advantage of our mistakes." 
Verzatility moved on to play Five Reasons Your Girl Left You, while the future of Bosephus was left more uncer• tain. 
''Unfortunately, we won't all be here next year," said Ostick. "But the two of us that will be are looking to put together a team that can win the title." 

Pan n¦e 1111r111itvl 
Mintel International is a leading research company based in Chicago and London. We are currently recruiting associates for a market research role. 
The job is to test soft drink quality in fast food restaurants ln South Bend The tests can be done at any time except the restaurants peak period {I.e. lunch/dinner) Therefore it is very flexible and is quite a suitable part-time role. 
Requirements 

Good English -written and spoken Willing to travel to fast food stores in and around South Band No experience is necessary, full training will be provided. 
More Oetalls 

Payment: minimum of $15 per store tested. Mintel supplies all test · equipment. The fee includes all costs incurred 
Some further details of the job: 

Our Associates are required to go to assigned fast food restaurants and test 
the soft drink dispensed for the following CarbOnation levels (using CO2 tester) Temperature Ratio of syrup to water Water quality {using Aquachek strips) Overall hygiene of the soft drinks dispenser and storage area. 
Successful applicants will also be required to check date codes on soft drinks in supermarkets and other outlets. 
How to apply: 

Please send an email with your details to shoppers@mintet.com by 10th fflA't' 2001. For more details on our company visit our website www.mintel.com 
NHL 

St. Louis take 2-0 lead on Dallas 
Assodated Press 

DALLAS 
The St. Louis Blues are start­ing to look like the team that was so dominating early this season. 
Scott Young scored a short­handed goal, Marty Reasoner tapped in another goal and Roman Turek made 28 saves as the Blues beat the Dallas Stars 2-1 Sunday night to take a 2-0 lead in the second-round series. 
Dallas played without center Mike Modano, who sprained his left ankle in the opener, and in the first period lost cen­ter Shaun Van Allen after he took a puck to his mouth. Forward John MacLean was lost to a bloody nose in the third period. 
The best-of-seven series shifts to St. Louis for Game 3 Tuesday night and the Blues will have history on their side. 
They've won all nine series when winning the first two games, while the Stars haven't overcome an 0·2 hole since 1968 in the franchise's first• ever postseason series. 
St. Louis also is playing at the same high level it enjoyed before injuries to several top players. Now healthy and hav­ing adjusted to several new­comers, the Blues have won four straight playoff games and not allowed a power-play goal in eight postseason games. 
Reasoner, the surprise hero of Game 1 with two goals and an assist, scored easily 85 sec­onds into this game after Keith Tkachuk stole the puck from Dallas' Darryl Sydor and pulled goalie Ed Belfour out of position. 
Belfour was out of position again on Young's goal midway through the first period, but 
THE 
this time it was his own fault. 

Having overplayed Young's rush to his left, Belfour was slow to set himself when Young •-St. Louis' leading goal-scorer this season --came from behind the net and fired on goal. The puck went in off Belfour's leg. 
The Blues' goals came on their first and third shots. They wouldn't beat Belfour again as he made some spec­tacular saves in snuffing their next 21 attempts on goal. 
Dallas came out firing at Turek, getting off more shots in the first 15 minutes than in the first two periods of Game 1 combined. Turek handled them all, then saw only five shots in the second --none for the first 8 1/2 minutes. 
Joe Nieuwendyk redirected a pass from Brett Hull to spoil Turek's shutout with 52 sec~ onds left and Dallas playing with an empty net. 

HOPPER 

TM 
¦ ¦ 
LET'S MAKE AMEAL. 


In The Land Of Burgers, WHOPPER®ls King. 


Now for 99¢ you can get fries and a COKE® when you buy a WHOPPER® Sandwich. 
C?me into BU~GER KING® today and enjoy a medium order of crispy, golden brown fries, and an ice-cold medium soft drink for just 99¢ when you order a delicious flame-broiled WHOPPER~ 
For a limited time only. Price and participation may vary 
™& IC> 2001 Burger King Brands. Inc. All rightS reser,ecl 
The Huddle, LaFortune Student Center 
[Pub set restaurant identification here.) 
Monday, April 30, 2001 page 21
The Observer . SPORTS 
BASEBALL 
Irish arms baffle Red Storm in weekend sweep 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame moved to within one win of the regular season Big East title with a three­game sweep of the St. John's Red Storm this week­end. 
The Irish. now 40-6­1, reached the plateau of 40 wins faster than any other team in Notre Dame history. 
The Big East sweep was very important in providing a confi­dence boost to the Irish after a tough mid-week loss to Valparaiso last Wednesday. Heading into the weekend, St John's was the closest team behind Notre Dame in the Big East standings. 
"A sweep over the No. 2 ranked team in the conference shows what we're capable of doing this year," said senior co-captain Alec Porzel. 
The shortstop played a key role in Sunday's 7-3 victory over the Red Storm with a 2­for-4, three RBI performance that included a double and a home run. 
The sweep ensured that the Irish could capture the Big East regular season title with only one win in its next six games against Connecticut and Boston College. 
"This was a big weekend for us," said head coach Paul Mainieri. "We knew that St. John's would bring a good team, but our guys really stood up to the challenge." 


Once again, the Irish got phe­nomenal performances from their starting pitchers. In the first game of the series, Aaron Heilman became the first Notre Dame pitcher to win his first 11 decisions of a season, going all seven innings for the victory. 
Heilman's senior classmate Danny Tamayo followed suit in the second game with a gem of his own. The right-hander pitched a two-hit shutout, his third of the season, and low­ered his ERA to 1.42, .01 of a run lower than his All­American teammate Heilman. 
"I feel like I'm getting better with each game," said Tamayo, who made a strong plea for Big East Pitcher of the Week. "Our defense has been great behind us. That really gives you the confidence to throw any pitch you want." 
On Sunday, sophomore J.P. Gagne added his own strong performance, allowing only two runs in seven innings of work to improve his record to 5-2. 
"I actually didn't feel like I had my best stuff," said Gagne. "The last two innings I felt like I really had to make some tough pitches in certain situa­tions. What gave me confidence was watching the first two pitchers [Heilman and Tamayo] going out and throwing so well on Saturday." 
In the first game Saturday, the Irish provided all of the runs that Heilman would need in the first inning. 
Steve Stanley started off the game with a double and then scored on Brian Stavisky's sin­gle. After Kris Billmaier and Paul O'Toole walked to load the bases, third baseman Andrew Bushey pushed the lead to 3-0 with a two-run sin­gle. 

In the nightcap, Notre Dame 
S11iors. Moving to anew city and want to live with fellow ND Grads! Juniors-Need an internship roommate or staying here for the summer? 
Go to WWW.ndtoday.comlfusetalk and post your city and phone number information on 
THE ROOMMATE BOARD!! 
If you're headed to the big ci~ this summer and don't know asoul, chat it up with afew trustworthy Darners to find aplace to stay. 
Sponsored by: 

plated one run in each of the first four innings to grab the early lead. 
Tamayo faced only three hit­ters over the minimum in the 5-0 victory. 
On Sunday. the Irish scored seven runs getting solid contri­butions at the plate from Porzel, Bushey, and O'Toole. The three combined went 7 ­for-11 with all seven of the team's RBIs. 
With their strong weekend play, the Irish will likely retain their No. 1 ranking as they return to action Tuesday night at Michigan. 
Please Recycle The Observer. 

SENIOR WEEK 
NEED TO BUY TICKE'TS? HAVE QUESTIONS OR CONCERNS? 
OFFICE HOURS MONDAY-THURSDAY 8-10 PM APRIL 30-MAY 10 CLASS OF 2001 OFFICE 213 LAFORTUNE 
TICKETS FOR SIL VER. HAWKS. CEDAR POINT AND FORMAL AVAILABLE 
CONTACT MEGHAN AT 243-9920 


page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, April 30, 200 I 
SOFTBALL 

Irish sweep weekend doubleheaders with Eagles, Friars 


By PETER FRASSO Sports Writer 

This past weekend, while most of the campus' thoughts were on foot­ball, the Notre Dame women's soft­ball team worked on their own sea­son, sweeping two doubleheaders and extending their winning streak to 29 games, the longest in the nation. 
On Saturday and Sunday, No. 9 Notre Dame beat Boston College and Providence, respectively. The Irish are now 4 7 -3 on the year, and still undefeated and in first place in the Big East at 16-0. 
"Our goal is to keep it going," said coach Liz Miller. "We still need to take every game one at a time. Our pitching has been great, and lately our bats have been strong." 
In game 1 on Saturday. Notre Dame beat Boston College 4-2, the closest score of the weekend. Pitcher Jen Sharron threw a com­plete game, only allowing two hits, two walks and two unearned runs while striking out 14. 
Jenny Kriech tripled twice. Kriech. Danielle Klayman, Jarrah Myers and Andrea Loman all had RBIs. While Notre Dame never trailed, Boston College kept the game close by scoring in both the fourth and sixth. 
Game 2 was highlighted by the outstanding pitching of Kristin Schmidt, who only allowed one hit in the game. The Irish went on to win 5-0. Loman was 2-for-3 with two RBI and Kriech had another triple. Lizzy Lemire, Alexis Madrid and Klayman had RBIs. 
In game 1 against Providence on Sunday, the Notre Dame bashed its way to victory with 10 runs on 12 hits in only four innings. The game was called on the eight run mercy rule. Melanie Alkire was 3-for-3. Both she and Myers had two RBIs. Sharron allowed only three Providence hits on the day. 
Game 2 was a 5-0 win, giving the Irish an undefeated weekend. Schmidt pitched six shutout innings, lowering her ERA to 0.43. Myers and Lemire provided the bulk of the offense, both going 2­for-3. 
Lately, the Irish have had impor• tant players stepping up. 
"Lizzy Lemire, over the past week, has hit over .400 with nine RBIs. Jarrah Myers has hit .562. Alexis Madrid has hit .400 with three game-winning RBIs. Jenny Kriech has nine triples over the season," said Miller. noting how her team has grown offensively. 
This upcoming week, the Irish face Bowling Green in a make up on Wednesday, and then finish their Big East schedule with road games against Villanova and Rutgers. 
"Bowling Green is going to be a good game. Villanova is in second place in the Big East," said Miller, commenting on the upcoming schedule. "These are tough games." 
Miller remains confident in her team though. "If we play our game, we should win the Big East," she said. 

Do you drive Italian? 

• 


Monday, April 30, 200 I page 23
The Observer . TODAY 
TYLER

THINGS COULD BE WORSE
FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY 
WHATELY 

THEY DIDN'T KNOW IT YET, BUT MRS. KIMBALL'S KINDERGARTEN CLASS WAS IN FOR A BIG SURPRISE ... VS \i.O (;:0 CLOi\\\N6 'TRhS~ uDRI\JE-­ 

f'ox TROT BILL AMEND 
I HATE To WASTE 

PERFECTLY  
GooD MOUTH  1 SEE.  
CAPACITY.  UNFOR­ 
I  TUNATELY.  
~  


EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON yourself carefully. 00000
ACROSS 29 Needle hole 57 Verdi heroine 
THIS DAY: Queen Elizabeth II, VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22):
1 Jacket 30 Banking device, 58 Crude group? 
Charles Grodin, Anthony Quinn, Talk to those in established posi­
in brief

5 "_the night 59 Greeting said Patti LuPone, Andie MacDowell, tions. Assistance may be in order. before ...ft 33 Correct, as text with a tip ·of the John Mortimer, Tony Danza Take a long look at yourself and 
Happy Birthday: Take your analyze what you would like to
9 Popular Ford 34 Bullets, e.g. hat 
time. Rome wasn't built in a day. improve upon. This is the time
auto, informally 36 "En garde" 60 One-inch news 
You need to get your priorities for change. 000 
14 Slangy denial weapon story straight and focus on what LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You 37 Do wondrous 61 District means the most. If you plan are likely to be the topic of con­
15 Cry before 
things your moves strategically, you versation if you've been too
disaster 62 "This way" sign 
can make the biggest impact. If open about your personal life.
40 "Cogito _.

16 Singer Ford 63 Muse's you are particular, patient and Don't give in to treats. You from Tennessee sum" instrument positive in all that you do, you should probably start looking for 
-
41 One who stands will achieve your goals. Your a new position. 00
17 Ceremonial act 64 Conclusions 
to gain a lot? numbers: 10, 19,23,34,38,40 SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):
18 Complains and ARIES (March 21-April 19): Competitive sports will help you
42 Matter of fact? 

complains and Don't jump to conclusions before release all that pent-up energy.
DOWN

43 Strong cleaner getting all the facts. You should You should consider spending a 1 Street's edge be extremely careful while oper­romantic evening with the one
19 Good places for 44 Fish steerer 
2 Buckeye State ating equipment. Emotional you love. You may be in the dog· 
hen parties? 45 Like some 
deception is likely. Be direct in house if you don't. 000
3 Hyundai or
20 Voice amplifier winter sidewalks your conversations. 000 SAGrITARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec 21):
Honda
on a pole 46 Ca++ or c1-, e.g. TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't overspend on home reno­4 Unnamed ones You'll have trouble dealing with vation or redecorating. You need
23 Like squashed 47 District 
relatives. Don't bang your head to scrimp and save wherever
insects 5 Invigorating
49 "You'll have to against a wall. Let them know you can. If you use your irnagi­
drinks
24 Edge show me" how you feel and carry on. You na tion, the outcome will look 6 Hit hard can make a difference if you like a million bucks. 00000
25 Negligent 56 Once more 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan.19):
make changes at home. 000

7 Raging 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You need a change. Join groups ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 8 Fair to middling Your personal life will stabilize. that will spark some enthusiasm. 
9 Computer whiz You can make amends by suggest­Don't be in a hurry to blame your ing special plans for two. It's time 
loved ones for tnings that may -,,-+--+-..+--+---1 10 Sweeper to be romantic and let your mate not be their fault. Dig deep and
31 Saws and laws 46 "Don't mind 51 Postal delivery 
......+--+-1-..+-,-1 11 Involved with know how much you care. 0000 find out all the facts. 000
have them _!" 
52 Leak slowly CANCER (June 21-July 22): AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):
"':"":'t"':T":~ 12 Ready to pluck 
32 Netlike 47 Friendliness A friend will be upset if you are Be secretive about intentions or
53 Abreast of

--+--+,""' 13 Moines ideas that could bring you extra
34 So be it 48 Equestrian too busy to do things with him. Be 54 Tear diplomatic; he may think that you cash. You must look into all your
21 Botch 
35 New millennium 49 Composer options before you proceed. Get
like him more then you really do . 

.;.;.~....,;..-1 22 Funnyman 55 Cold desserts 
year, or a part of Stravinsky Let him down gently, but don't promises in writing. 0000 Richard 20-, 37~ and 50 Bryn_, pa. 56 "So that's it!" expect him to stick around. 00 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 49-Across LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You Keep working on your project.
25 Force back 
You will have to cover all thewill exhaust yourself if you've
26 Nail filer 36 Drapery color 
bases if you want this concept totaken on too much. Ask for help
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle
i'"e-+,,,,..+,,,.-4 27 Make one 38 Big zoo animal or an extension on your deadlines. fly. Remember that most people
are available by touch-tone phone: 
won't have your vision. 000
Personal matters may crop up and 

........_......,_. 28Facts 39 Country album? 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
delay matters even further. Gauge 

__.__.,-+-+-+-_._............... 29 Kuwaiti chief 44 In the short term Annual subscriptions are available for the Birthday Baby: You have a twinkle in your eye and a carefree
__.....+ ....................................... 30 Tiptop, on a 45 Kind of seed on best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
attitude that will attract a lot of attentic..1 throughout life. You are
report card a roll years: 1-888·7-ACROSS. 
willing to try anything that promises to a thrill and will never forget to include the people you love in your plan5. (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's we·, sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
10 2001 Universal Press Syndicate 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two ca1npuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester Name --------------------------­Address -------------------------­
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 

,, 
! \': 

Get the broom out 
Notre Dame is one win away from clinching the Big East title after sweeping St. John ·s this weekend. 
page 21 


r 
) 
~ 
) l \ 
\ 
) 
) 
'X 
~ 
l 
O
THE 

page 24 BSERVER Monday, April 30, 2001 

MEN'S LACROSSE 

Irish beat Crimson 16-4 in regular season finale 
By JOE LICANDRO Sports Writer 

In the last regular season game of their careers, the seniors of the Notre Dame's men's lacrosse team played their hearts out in a dominating 16-4 victory against Harvard. 
Led by five goals and three assists from senior attack­man Tom Glatzel and another tremendous performance in net by senior Kirk Howell, the Irish crushed the visiting Crimson to win their 12th game of the season. The game was a physical affair as both teams racked up numerous penalties. but the Irish were clearly the stronger and tougher team. 

"It was a physical game, but we played hard the whole game," said Glatzel. "We scored a lot of our goals with an extra man advantage. We made the most of our opportunities all game" 
The first goal of the game by senior 
Todd Ulrich typified the Irish's entire season. After being knocked around and continually shoved by Harvard defenders. Ulrich refused to quit as he motored toward the goal and shot a rocket right past the outstretched stick of the Harvard goalie Jake McKenna for the first of his three goals in the game. 
Harvard scored the next two goals and take a 2-1 lead at the end of the first quarter, but the Irish did not panic. 
The Irish scored five unanswered 
goals in the second quarter to take a commanding 7 -2 lead. The difference in the second quarter was the Irish's pass­ing on offense. The Irish constantly found the open man and set themselves up for some excellent looks at the net. 
No player set his teammates up more than senior Chris Young, who finished with five assists. 
The third quarter belonged to Glatzel, as he scored four goals in a row to give the Irish an 11-4 lead. 
Glatzel's last goal of the game and team-leading 35th of the season exem­plified his ability when he caught the ball in mid-air, turned his stick and fired a shot past the Harvard goalie. 
In the fourth quarter, Irish coach Kevin Corrigan replaced his seniors with freshmen and sophomores. When goalie Kirk Howell was pulled from the game, the Irish crowd gave him a standing ovation. After the game, Howell described his emotions. 
"It's a little sad because I loved play­ing here," Howell said. "The season isn't over yet. I think we still have a lot to prove to ourselves. I think we're ready for the NCAA tournament." 
The fourth quarter featured four more goals for the Irish and an extremely bizarre incident. With about seven min­utes remaining in the game, a crazed, naked fan streaked across the middle of the field causing the Irish bench to roar with laughter. 
Despite the distraction, the Irish car­ried on with business as usual as fresh­man Dan Bergen added his first career goal and a minute later senior Kevin Dugan added the finishing touches to a the win.· 
"We controlled the entire game. The only time they scored is when we let them by making a few silly mistakes," said Corrigan. "Our defense was great and our passing made the difference on offense." 
The Irish now await their seeding for the NCAA tournament. Corrigan believes this could be his best team ever entering 
see lAX/page 14 


FOOTBALL 

Defense prevails 7 4-40 in Blue-Gold game 
. Givens earns MVP honors for offensive unit 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Associate Sports Editor 

He said he was only 85 per­cent. 
Saturday afternoon, David 
Givens played like he was 100 

percent. 
Givens, who has been suffer­
ing from a 

h a m s t r i n g See Also 
injury for 

most of the "Captains to 
spring, caught 

lead Irish in 
a pair of 

2001 season"
touchdown passes as the 

page 16 
defense beat the offense 74-40 in the annual Blue-Gold scrimmage. 
"I came out under the impres­sion I wasn't going to play too much today, but I got warmed up," said Givens, who was voted the offensive MVP. "I was able to go out there and work on my route techniques today and do some things that kind of sur­prised myself." 

"The guy's legitimately a war­rior," said offensive coordinator Kevin Rogers. 
"I didn't know he was going to play today, I swear to God. I guess seeing the people in the stands inspired him a little." 
see GAME/page 17 

. Quarterbacks get opportunity to showcase talent 
You can't help but wonder what in the world Bob Davie is thinking. 
After Saturday's scrimmage, Davie said that having three equally talented quarterbacks was his "best case scenario." 
If this is Davie's best case scenario, you wonder what his worst case scenario is. 

Davie sure is lucky. He gets the pleasure of figuring out how to give them all equal snaps in practice. He has the wonderful opportunity to find a way to maintain strong team chemistry while make an offense fit the playing style of all three quarterbacks. 
And come the fall. Davie, that lucky son of a gun, gets to decide which quarterback gets the ball when the game is on the line. 
Based on what we've seen of 

see QB'S/page 16 
Baseball Track and Field Tennis 
at Michigan Big East Championships MIAA Tournament 
SPORTS 
Tuesday, 7:30 p.m. Friday-Sunday 
Friday-Saturday
ATA 

Softball Track and Field Women's Lacrosse at Villanova MIAA meet at Syracuse 
GLANCE 
12 p.m. Friday-Saturday Saturday, 1 p.m. 
.. 


O
THE Monday, April 30, 2001 BSERVER page 1 
Nylon Strokers: "This has been a dream" 
. Nylon Strokers upset No. 1 Five Reasons Your Girl Left You 21-19 to claim Bookstore title 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Senior Staff Writer 
The glass slipper turned out to be a perfect fit for the Nylon Strokers. as the sixth­ranked squad finished its Cinderella run through Bookstore Basketball 2001 with a 21-19 upset Sunday of No. 1 Five Reasons Your Girl Left You. 
"This has been a dream since freshman year." said the Nylon Strokers' Brian Oleniczak, a senior. 
Nylon Strokers entered the championship game a heavy underdog. Five Reasons, with four seniors on its squad, had rolled through the tourna­ment, not giving up more than seven points until Friday's quarterfinals. Nylon Strokers had fought through tough games from the round of 64 on. 
"Every single game since 64 has been a battle for us," said Oleniczak, "but we just perse­vered through it all. I don't think anybody really expected 


us to win." 

But the Nylon Strokers sprinted out to a 7-2 start. Their shooting was so on that photos by BRIAN PUCEVICH the basket seemed to have a magnet pulling the ball and TIM KACMAR through the hoop. 
The Nylon Strokers were 
dead on in their goal of 

expanding their offense Nylon Strokers' Al Vitter gives his team rea­
beyond tournament MVP Al 

Vitter, who scored nine points son to celebrate (right) by hitting the 
in the semifinals win over 

Versatility. gamewinning shot (above) in a 21-19 victory "He's pretty damn good," Chris Conway said Saturday of over top-ranked Five Reasons Your Girl Left Vitter, "but we just·want to make sure it's not just him all You. Vitter, the Tournament MVP, led the the time. We want to get everyone involved." Nylon Strokers to the 2001 Bookstore The Nylon Strokers did that 
Sunday. Conway scored the Basketball championship. 
first basket and Irish football player Courtney Watson layed in the second basket on· the breakaway. Vitter then hit a jumper, but former football walkon Oleniczak scored the next three baskets -a long 
jump shot, a breakaway bas­ket and a layup. As on as the Nylon Strokers 

momentum by knocking down Lustig swiped the ball from played our best." Ryan and Lustig each followed
were from the field in the 

a jump shot. Oleniczak pushed Nylon Strokers, launching it Five Reasons held Nylon with jumpers to nearly knot
finals, Five Reasons' hoop had 

his team ahead 16-9 with a ahead to Ryan for a basket. A Strokers scoreless on yet the score at 20-19.
a protective seal over it in the 

basket, minute another possession. After a The string of defensive stops
early going. All the shots nor­

with the later, Ryan missed Five Reasons shot, Five ended there for Five Reasons.
mally made by the strong 

game look­"[Al Vztter's} pretty damn dropped in Reasons' Dan Reidy battled for Vitter launched a shot from the
shooting team rimmed out, 

ing all but good. but we want to make a hook the rebound, but instead of a top of the key. It hit the front of 
bounced the wrong way or 

out of shot. Lustig jump ball being called, the ref­the rim, bounced back and
rolled around the rim and fell sure it's not just him all the 
reach for returned to eree blew his whistle for a foul. dropped through the net for
to the side. 

time. We want to get
F i v e his shooting Oleniczak sank the free throw the 21-19 Nylon Strokers' vic­
"We just came out slow," 

Reasons. everyone involved.·· form of the and the comeback paused. tory.
said Five Reasons' Dan Lustig, 

After the semifinals Lustig forced a foul with his "Scoring hadn't really been
a first-team all-tournament 

score went by hitting a patented pump fake, knocking our problem all day long," said
selection. "We couldn't hit any­Chris Conway
to 17-10 I o n g rl.:>wn the free throw. But the Vitter, "so I was pretty confi­
thing. When you're not making 

N y l o n Nylon Strokers jumper. Nylon Strokers· Ryan Wood dent we could get one or two
anything, you never get a flow. 

Strokers, After a made a reverse layup, followed more in."
you never catch a groove." 

F i v e N v I o n by a long baseline jumper by Vitter was right.
At halftime, the Nylon 

Reasons began what was Strokers travel and ro·ul, Ryan Conway to make it gamepoint "It was good to have Al. the
Strokers led 11-5, but Five 

almost the biggest comeback of made another free throw to put at 20-16. MVP, hitting it," said
Reasons battled back. The top­

the tourney, with Pete Ryan the score at 17-15. ..We tried to fight our way Oreniczak. "He was joking with
ranked team pulled as close as 

leading the surge. "We just wanted to chip back in," said Lustig, "but they me, I had hit the last shot the
14-9 after a Lustig jump shot 

The Nylon Strokers commit­away at the lead," said Raih. had already pulled out a last three or four games. I let
and Paul Raih basket in the 

ted their 10th foul, sending "We said we weren't going to decent lead on us." him have that one. I gave him
lane. 

Ryan to the free throw line, go down without a fight, Reidy tried to will his team that one to finish." 
Vitter killed Five Reasons' 

who knocked down the shot. because we hadn't really the win by hitting a jump shot. And finish he did. 

I '> 
. ' -i:,... ''2._,. 
page 2 The Observer . BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL Monday, April 30, 200 l 
Strokers' win prevents No. 1 vs. ·No. 2 championship 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Senior Scaff Writer 
The Bookstore Basketball championships almost went down to a No. 1 vs. No. 2 battle just like last year, but the sixth­ranked Nylon Strokers nixed that possibility with a 21-19 semifinals upset Saturday of second-ranked Versatility. Top­seeded Five Reasons Your Girl Left You defended its rank with a 21-16 win over Verzatility to get to the finals. 
Nylon Strokers' Brian "Pepper" Oleniczak won the Versatility-Nylon Strokers game by sinking a free throw to hold off a Versatility comeback. 
"We had trouble with our free throws a lot in the earlier games," said Nylon Strokers' C h r i s Conway. "We were much See Also 
better now, "Top seeds Five using our 
Reasons,
legs. concen­trating. If you Versatility 
saw us advance to Final 
Tuesday night, we Four" were horri­
page 15
ble." After trail­"Nylon Strokers, 
ing by a 
Verzatility
bucket or two most of the advance" first half, the 
page2D
N y I o n Strokers put together a 6-0 scoring spurt to open the second half and take a decisive 16-11 lead. Al Vitter, the tournament MVP, scored three of the six points during the stretch. 
"This was definitely the best team we've played," Conway said. "This is the first game we've played as the under­dogs." 
Versatility point guard Chris Dillon, a first-team all­Bookstore selection, kept his team in the game almost single­handedly. He hit two shots from 3-point land and one from near the halfcourt line to close the gap to 18-15. Teammate Joe Lillis narrowed the score one more with a driving bucket 
Nylon Strokers' Conway hit a free throw to give his squad a 19-16 edge. 

Versatility didn't give up so quickly. Jason Childress banked in a rebound goal, and after several non-scoring posses­sions, former Notre D3.me bas­ketball walkon John Hiltz hit a pullup jumper to make it 19-18. 
Vitter, who scored nine points, hit a shot from behind the 3-point line for game point. 
"I guess it was just my day," Vitter said. "We've still got to work on getting the ball down low more. I think we're relying way too much on the outside shots. If we weren't hitting our outside shots today, we would have been dead. The offense definitely can't revolve around me. because I'm not going to be hitting all the time." 
Dillon responded to Vitter's basket by hitting a driving hook to put the score at 20-19. 
Then came Oleniczak's gamewinning foul 'shot. 
"They made the big shots when they had to," said Versatility's Tim Greene. "We struggled getting the ball to go down towards the end of the game, and in that close of a game, that's a big factor." 
All Versatility's players except Hiltz, a junior, graduate this year, ending their Bookstore run just short of a title. Last year, Versatility advanced to the Final Four, and in 1999. it lost in the champi­onship game. 
Five Reasons hit nothing but net in its semifinals game, leav­ing little room for error by Verzatility. 
"I don't think they missed a shot," said Verzatility's Jon Bevilacqua. 
One or two, maybe, but not many. 
"I think turnovers really hurt us, and they were shooting phe­nomenally," said Verzatility's "Packy" Lyden. 
Dan Lustig and Kevin "Mumbles" Muempfer. both first-team all-tournament picks, led the deadly shooting attack for Five Reasons, Lustig scoring eight and Muempfer six. 
"I didn't make one shot dur­ing warmups;· said Lustig, a 6­foot-4 sophomore. "Usually I never warm up, actually. I show up late at Rolfs and my teammates are always ready to start." 
Five Reasons held off fatigue after playing a 26-24 marathon decision the day before. After an 11-7 halftime lead, Five Reasons soared with four straight points. Muempfer and Lustig each hit a long jumper, Dan Reidy scored a putback bucket and Muempfer sealed in an off-balance jumper from the baseline. 
"Kevin and I went on streaks," said Lustig. 
Verzatility's Lyden. Kevin Murphy and former Notre Dame basketball walkon Hunt Hanover combined to close the gap to 16-11. but Reidy ended the brief dry spell for Five Reasons with a jumper. 
The two teams then exchanged a pair of buckets. 6­8 Paul Raih knocked in a rebound goal for Five Reasons, and Hanover came back with a bangin goal for Verzatility. Lustig then sank another jump shot off the pass, with Lyden 
putting  in  a  jumper  for  
Verzatility.  
Following  a  Murphy free  

throw for Verzatility, Lustig dropped in yet another jumper, this time off a Muempfer assist. Verzatility got as close as four points after a Lyden long-dis­tance shot and a Bevilacqua jam. 
Fittingly, Lustig ended the game with a silky soft jump shot that went in despite a Verzatility foul. 
"My shots were on," Lustig said. 
Verzatility went way beyond expectations, entering the tour­ney ranked 21st. a seeding which moved up to 13th after the reseeding at the round of 
16. Their team was a last­minute put-together. Hanover, Brian MacKinnon and Lyden, all St. Ed's residents, picked up Murphy and Bevilacqua, who had played together before. 
"I thought we made a great run at it," Bevilacqua said, "especially since we were ranked 21 going in. When we started playing together, we just really clicked." 
Celebrities, athletes take court in Hall of Fame game 
head bookstore commissioner Brian Borger,
By KATIE HUGHES 

Versatility's Chris Dillon and NDToday.com's Todd 
Spom Writer 

Titus. "It was a fun, laid-back game," said Brown. 
Individually they are the elite, the media darlings, "It was probably the least stressful situation I've 
the ballers, the Sports Illustrated cover girls, the All­ever played in," added Mueller. 
Americans, the Adidas-adorned celebrities and the Siemon and Riley, in their last officiated game at Stepan legends. United they are the Green team 
Notre Dame, each had five points. Holiday. who versus the White team, seeing who can get to 15 didn't show any fatigue after Saturday's Blue-Gold 
first. 
The Green Team won 15-12 after being up 8-7 at the half. 
The Green Team was made up of the Majesties' Corey Hartmann. the Freeballers' DJ Lipke, John 'Psycho' Taggert, Please Call Us Bosephus' Brian Ostick, former women's basketball forward Kelley Siemon, quarterback Carlyle Holiday, former men's basketball team member Hunt Hanover and former leprechaun Mike Brown. 

"At the end ofthe game, I wanted to cry. But I held back my emotions for the fans... 
Kelly Siemon Green Team 

game, scored four times for the Green Team. 
"I was fairly familiar with Ruth's game," said Siemon. "I was proud of our team, our killer point guard and Carlyle Holiday dunking everything. I'm going to miss those guys. At the end of the game. I wanted to cry. But I held back my emotions for the fans." 
The Bookstore Basketball com­missioners chose who will play in 
The White Team featured women's basketball All­American Ruth Riley, former point guard Martin Ingelsby, Project Mayhem's Luke Mueller, former the Hall ofFame game. 
"We try to get celebrities and athletes that every­one wants to see on the court, and also past players who made it to 16 or 18 and deserve to be recog­nized," said commissioner Bridget Monahan. 

TIM KACMAR/The ObServer 

First-team all-Bookstore selection Chris Dillon ( right) of Versatility dribbles around Nylon Strokers' Al Vitter in his team's 21-19 semifinals defeat Saturday. 
Men'• Bookstore ¦•ketball Final Results 
NYLON 
STROKERS 21-19 VERSATil ITV 

NYLON 5 REASONS STROKERS YOUR GIRL LEFT You 
21-18 
2001 CHAMPIONS NYLON STROKERS 
MR. BOOKSTORE 
VERZATILITV 
21-16 5 REASONS 
YOUR GIRL LEFT You 

BJ KLOSKA, NDTODAY.COM 
IRONMAN JASON MAYES, PROJECT MAYHEM 
HOOSIER AWARD (SHOOTS THE MOST, MAKES THE LEAST) MATT WOLBECK, MAJESTICS 
BOOKSTORE MVP AL VITTER 
1ST TEAM LUKE MUELLER, PROJECT MAYHEM CHRIS DILLON, VERSATILITY BRIAN 0STICK, PLEASE CALL US BOSEPHUS KEVIN MUEMPFER, FIVE REASONS YOUR GIRL LEFT You DAN LUSTIG, FIVE REASONS YOUR Giel LEFT You 
2ND 
JOHN HILTZ, VERSATILITY JisoN DITCH, LAZYBOYZ PETE RYAN, FIVE REASONS BRIAN 0LENICZAK, NYLON STROKERS DJ LIPKE, FREEBALLERS 
3RD JOE LILLIS, VERSATILITY JASON SULLIVAN, PLEASE CALL US BOSEPHUS SEAN MCCARTHY, MAJESTICS TODD TITUS, NDTODAY.COM HUNT HANOVER, VERZATILITY 
ALL DAV IE TEAM <BEST FOOTBALL PLAYERS) COURTNEY WATSON, NYLON STROKERS JOHN OWENS, Coco BUTTER CARLYLE HOLIDAY, JEROME COLLINS, ABE ELAM, DIAPER DANDIES 
~£. "> 

Monday, April 30, 200 I page 3
The Observer . BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Dunbar-led Slappy's All-Stars wins women's title 

By KATIE HUGHES 
Sports Wricer 
Slappy's All-Stars defeated the. Hardcore Strokers 21-16 in the final game of the women's Bookstore tourna­ment. 
Senior Imani Dunbar, a reserve guard for the Irish women's basketball team, became the only varsity team member who can boast two championships in 2001 as she scored 10 points for Slappy's in her last officiated game at Notre Dame. 
Varsity teammates and grad­uating seniors Ruth Riley,. 
Kelley Siemon, Meghan Leahy and Ericka Haney watched from the sidelines. 
"Ericka is our coach," said Dunbar, who was named MVP of the women's tournament. "But she's kind of a deadbeat coach. She shows up to give us four words of wisdom before our games." 
"It's awesome to win a book­store championship," said Dunbar. "This plaque is going on the top shelf. The whole thing was so much fun." 
Abbey Coons, named to the all-tournament First-team, scored four for Slappy's, and Krisa Diaz scored the winning basket. Kristen McGovern 
scored three, Coons scored four and Jen Stefanski added one for Slappy's. 
"The second half seemed to go much faster," said Coons. "We were making more shots and running more. Imani was a huge factor in our win. She really drove the ball and got the job done." 
The Hardcore Strokers, ranked sixth going into the tournament, kept it intense in the first half. never letting Slappy's get more than one point ahead for most of the game. The Strokers' Anne Blair, Elizabeth Linkous, Jaime Dineen, Kristen Matha and Shaun Russell -all 
-

Fnnal Reslilt.s 
HARDCORE SLAPPY'S STROKERS 
ALL-TARS HARDCORE TROKERS ALL-STARS 

21-17 

5 GIRLS WH GOT CUT FRO 
21-16 
21-16

THE CHEERLEADING SQUAD 


2001 CHAMPIONS HARDCORE STROKERS 
MISS BOOKSTORE AMY ANDERSON WON TOURNAMENT IN 1999 AND 2000 AND THIS YEAR MADE IT TO FINAL FOUR WITH 5 GIRLS WHO GOT CUT FROM THE CHEERLEADING SQUAD 
MVP 

!MANI DUNBAR, HARDCORE STROKERS 
1ST TEAM LYNN 0LSZOWY, HOOPERS ABBEY COONS, SLAPPY'S ALL-STARS MARI PYLE, WHO'S NEXT? JULIE NORMAN, BELLES OF THE BALL SHAUN RUSSELL, HARDCORE STROKERS 
2ND MARIANNA SEITZ, HOOPERS VANESSA LICHON, BRE 1 S BALLERS KERRI BAKKER, COURT QUEENS MEGAN CRISHAM, 5 GIRLS WHO 
GOT CUT FROM THE CHEERLEADING SQUAD ANNE BLAIR, HARDCORE STROKERS 
members of Saint Mary's var­sity team -resisted every push and answered every point until the half, when the score reached 11-8. The Strokers' Matha had eight rebounds, and Russell scored six points for the Strokers. 
To get to Sunday's tourna­ment, the Hardcore Strokers defeated Five Girls Who Got Cut From The Cheerleading Squad's Meghan Crisham, Kelly Cooney, Kate Ward, Jane Sarson and Amy Anderson 21­16. 
Anderson, who won the tour­nament in 1999 and 2000, was named Miss Bookstore, an award given to the player who exemplifies the · spirit of Bookstore Basketball. Slappy's All-Stars defeated the Hoopers' Lynn Olsowy, Heather Hoffman, Melissa Marcotte, Katie Burdick and Marianna Seitz 21-17. 
"[The Hoopers] had more plays, and they were a lot more organized than us," said Coons of the Cavanaugh-domi­nated, orange-and-white clad Hoopers. 
For anyone who wishes to challenge the reign of Slappy's star-Dunbar, the end of Bookstore does not mean the end of pick-up games. 
"You 'II find me at Rolf's [Monday] at four," said Dunbar. 
Bookstore Basketball brings back high school glory days 
Crowds full offriends cheering play basketball for Division II and dreaming of someday winning it title. the athletes. Most of us don't you on. Mental pictures ofa tri­III programs to come to Notre all, like Five Reasons Your Girl The players competing for know Ruth Riley, Troy Murphy umphant finale. Dreams dashed Dame. Left You's Pete Ryan and Bookstore titles. in both the coed and Arnaz Battle all personally, in defeat. Fantasies fulfilled with For the true hoops junkies. Majesties' Corey Hartmann, both and the women's tourneys, have as much as we like to see them a run of vic­Bookstore is serious business. seniors. As Hartmann's a chance to replace some of those win. And ushers and assigned tories. They formed their teams months Bookstore run came to an end, less-than-sweet memories, if they seats keep the cheering some­
Bookstore in advance. They played pickup the disappointment hit hard. can only capture that elusive what under control. limiting the Basketball is games at Rolfs on a daily basis. Hartmann turned to look up at championship. yells that reach the players' ears. like high Some even scaled back their the Dome just before his team They'll do anything to win. Play At Bookstore, every taunt and school all drinking as the competition lost, trying to take in his last through black eyes like Project heckle. every call of encourage­over again. picked up. moments playing on the courts he Mayhem's Jason Mayes or on a ment makes it onto the court. 
Most ofus The players on the best teams grew up on. sprained ankle like Kloska. Plus, the crowds take the wins at Notre wouldn't be satisfied with any­I know my biggest disappoint­Then there are the lucky people and losses personally -these are Dame, an thing less than a championship. ment in high school was never who won state back in high the fans' roommates, best friends, athletics­Unfortunately, only one team qualifying for state in track. I ran school, maybe even multiple boyfriends and classmates going obsessed can win, which meant a lot of all winter long as a senior, stub­times. Or they broke the school head-to-head. school by people would be going home dis­bornly going out in six inches of record for points scored or yards Just like in high school, when any mea­appointed. Especially this year, snow and below-zero wind chills, carried or home runs hit. They're your boyfriend came to all your sure, played since 14 ofthe 30 players on the determined to improve. I slashed out at Bookstore trying to recre­volleyball games no matter how high school top six teams were seniors. and my times, but injured my IT band ate the ecstatic feeling that they boring he thought the games sports. Most none had ever won a Bookstore just before districts and only com­experienced back in high school, were, and your closest friends of us, save title before. pleted my 3,000-meter race the pride they felt after reaching never missed a soccer game even the few lucky and talented Some had come achingly close thanks to a handful ofAleve a lofty goal. Winning Bookstore ifit was pouring down rain, enough to play for a varsity team to a championship -B.J. Kloska popped before stepping out on would evoke that same sentiment Bookstore brings people out en at Notre Dame, left our athletics and Todd Titus of NDToday.com the track. that's been missing the last cou­masse to cheer for their friends. careers behind after high school went to the championship game a I was inconsolable after I failed ple years. Like in high school, we don't all graduation. year ago, and John Hiltz, Jason to make it to state. Even now, The lucky few, the ones who get to end our careers in a blaze 
Bookstore offers the chance to Otildress, Joe Wlis and Chris four years later, just the thought played for the Nylon Strokers or ofglory. But the possibility of vic­return to the days when we lived Dillon of Versatility advanced to ofmy big flop stirs up bad memo­Slappy's All-Stars, get to end their tory makes it worth risking the for the competition. While there the finals in 1999. But coming so ries. tournament in celebration. sting ofdefeat. are teams out just to have a good close and losing can be even A lot of us have similar stories Completing the parallel are the time, there are also the legit worse than knowing you never of our disappointing moments in . spectators. The opinions expressed in this ballers, the ones who starred on had a chance. sports -losing in the state play­While cheering on Irish sports column are those ofthe author their varsity squads in high Other players had been coming offs, failing to make all-confer­teams is a great tradition, there's and not necesarily those ofThe school, who turned down offers to to.watch Bookstore for years and ence, not winning the district a distance between the fans and Obseroer. 

..:.\.~-t.f \

._.._. •,' OTHE page 4 BSERVER Monday, April 30, 2001 




BRIAN PUCEVICH/The Observer 
Pete Ryan of Five Reasons Your Girl Left You looks to lay in a bucket in 
his team's 21-16 semifinals victory over Verzatility, while both teams 
prepare to go for the rebound. 
t ' t 
photos by TIM KACMAR and BRIAN PUCEVICH 
The 580-team Bookstore Basketball XXX 
tournament came to a close this weekend. The sixth-ranked Nylon Strokers capped off a surprise run through the tourney by halting No. 1 Five Reasons Your Girl Left You·s comeback attempt with a 21-19 victory in the championships Sunday at the Stepan courts. 
I' 









