
Yum ... Rats again? 
Trouble in the Heartland 
Ready for another "Survivor?,, Sink your teeth 
Police continue to search for two of the seven 
Wednesday
into that and other new television 
escaped Texas convicts suspected ofmultiple
series hitting homes soon. 
nationwide murders. 
JANUARY 24, 
Scene . page 12-13 
World & Nation . page 5 
2001 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 72 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


ND and SMC students flood to Washington pro-life march 
president. "If this wasn't a civil Notre Dame senior Mario SuarezBy MAUREEN SMITHE 
rights movement we wouldn't be said he was particularly struck by
Assistant News Editor 
here in Washington." the surveys and polls conducted by Cleaver. 
In the 28 years since the 
"She has studied how people per­
Eye opening weekend 
Supreme Court legalized abortion ceive pro-lifers and pro-choicers.
Arriving Saturday and Sundayin the controversial Roe vs. Wade 
She reported that the first word
morning, students from the Notre
case, pro-life supporters have 
that comes to mind in associationDame and Saint Mary's community 
annually marched in \Vashington with the term 'pro-life' is 'bomb,"'
were on hand to witness severalDC to show their Suarez said. "That is hard to take,
historical events, including the
opposition to the because I'd like to think that wepresidential inauguration and the
decision. See Also are following the pattern of Martin
28th annual Right for Life March.
This year was Luther King." 
The weekend-long festivities cen­
no different. "Students 
Following the conference, stu­
tered on the continuing debate over• 
Flooding the comment on DC dents attended a Mass for Life at
a woman's right to choose. The
nation's capital the National Shrine of the
l·ourney " March was held in conjunction with 
Monday after-Immaculate Conception along with
a conference held at Georgetown
noon, more than page 7 hundreds of other pro-life support­
University Sunday afternoon.
100,000 protest-ers. Despite cramped seating that
Speakers, including Father Frank
ers from every spread onto the floor, aisles and
Pavone, director of Priests for Life,
corner of the United States joined corners, DeVoir said the Mass was
and Kathy Cleaver, Pro-Life secre­
in this year's March for Life. one of the trip's highlights. 
tariat to the US council of bishops, 
Included in that crowd were 355 "It was amazing and the music
addressed issues surrounding the
students from the Notre Dame and was beautiful. It really helped me
abortion debate and the Right to
Saint Mary's community, the put this trip into focus," she said. 
Life movement.
largest college group at the March. Prior to the March, thousands
"They talked about a few things I
"Even as Americans, not just gathered at the base of the 
MAUREEN SMITHE/ The Observer never knew. It was refreshing to be
Christians, we believe in the value Washington Monument for a rally
355 Notre Dame students gathered along with other with a lot of people who feel the
of human dignity," said Kaitlyn
pro-life supporters in DC last weekend for the annual same way I do," said Erica DeVoir, 
Dudley, Notre Dame Right to Life 
a Saint Mary's student. see MARCH/page 8
march for life. 
, 

Moving Toward 
Part II: Retention 
A 




The strength it takes to stay 
Editor's note: In honor ofMartin Luther King, Jr. celebrations on campus, The Observer explores diversity issues in a four-part series. Part two examines the issues confronting minority retention at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. 
. SMC retention rates fall in classes of2002,2003 

By NOREEN GILLESPIE 

News Writer 

In a sea of white faces, Deontraneze Thompson stands out in the crowd. 
On a campus where African­American students make up .8 percent of the student body, standing out isn't a choice for Thomspon -it's her life. Life for Thompson has meant becoming used to walking into a classroom knowing that she will be the only African-American student there. It's been becom­ing used to the looks she gets when she walks across campus, and being one of the only African-American women in her residence hall. 
But that doesn't mean she's comfortable with standing out. 
"I'm usually the only black student in my classes," Thompson said. "\-Vhen I walk into a classroom, and everyone is the same, I stick out. I don't have the benefit of skipping class and not being noticed." 
Thompson, a native of Birmingham, Ala .. said that when she toured Saint Mary's as a senior in high school, she real-
see RETENTION/page 4 

Deontraneze Thompson, a pre-med chemistry major at Saint Mary's, prepares for a chem lab. Thompson typically finds she Is the only African-American student in her classes. 
. Diversity can be an obstacle at Notre Dame 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
News Writer 
It takes a special kind of minority student to survive the white, Catholic world of Notre Dame. 
As a member of a different culture, a different background or a different lifestyle, questions are bound to arise from even the most well-meaning member of the majority. The call to speak for your race or set a positive example of your culture for others to understand can be loud at Notre Dame. 
"Often times minority stu­dents go through what we call the 'Pain Olympics,"' said Kevin Huie, assistant director of Multicultural Student Programs and Services (MSPS). "Because there are so few of them, they always think they have to talk for their race or for their cul­ture. That is not what we want them to have to do. We don't want them to think because you are African American or because you are Asian American, tell us what it is like." 
see RACE/page 6 



page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, January 24, 200I 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Can you say penis? 

I have not seen or read "The Vagina Monologues," and consequently. my article is not focused on the play itself. I am not con­cerned with whether or not it remains on Saint Mary's campus; frankly. I am not capable of making an educated judge­ment. 
Nevertheless, it is very evident what the ideologi­cal motivations are behind the play' s material. Based on articles I have read con­cerning the "Monologues," it seems as though the vagina is meant to repre­sent a new age in femi­nism. In this mutated ver­sion of pure and noble fem­inism, a woman's body becomes a sexual symbol somehow representative of the female spirit. 
How is "allowing women to talk about their bodies," their vaginas and sex in any way an uplifting and productive avenue for modern-day feminists to pursue? What can possibly be accomplished from speak­ing about one's genitalia? 
This "vagina movement" seems absurd to me, and contradicts the true spirit behind the femi­nist movement. 
Proponents claim that by not speaking about a female's bodily and sexual functions women are left "voiceless and unable to send a message to the media and society that they do not want to be treated only as sexual objects." 
Am I the only one confused by this bold state­ment? 
First of all, by using the vagina to represent the feminist movement, proponents are in essence confining the woman to her sexual affil­iation. The core purpose of feminism, as far as I am aware, is to prevent discrimination against people based on their sexuality. It is important for women to be treated as equals with men in society. It is imperative that women and men receive the same educational and professional opportunities. Women and men alike must be treated with basic human rights. Rape and abuse are intolerable and safeguards should be in place to prevent and punish such actions. 
I agree with these standards, and I am a pro­ponent of the true purpose behind feminism. 
However, this focus on the vagina and sexual­ity tarnishes and diminishes the gleam of the feminist spirit. It creates a circus-like atmos­phere, and is intended to shock, not educate. This movement to "celebrate" the vagina does not help the women's cause, rather it demerits and trivializes the true calling of feminism. In the same way that a man referring to his penis and sexual endeavors would be considered coarse, unnecessary and crude, this "vagina movement" is an embarrassment for the woman's cause. 
Granted, I am not a woman, and consequent­ly, I do not have a vagina. Perhaps there is some mystical connection women have with their sexual organs. But, for me, a normal guy, it seems perverted and reprehensible to equate my own sense of human rights, equality and freedom with my penis. 
Am I the only one that finds this entire subject 

absurd? 
Or is it just because I have a penis, and I don't 

understand? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Maribel Morey Laura Kelly Nate Phillips Graphics Myra McGriff 
Jose Cuellar Sports 
Production Katie McVoy 
Rachel Protzman Viewpoint Lab Tech 
Lauren Beck Peter Richardson 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday 1hrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of 1he Associa1cd Press. All rcproduc1ion rights arc reserved. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather ftireca.st for daytimeconditions and high temperJtures 
The AccuWeathe~ forecast for noon, Wednesday, Jan. 24. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
\ .-"------< 
~ 
ii;; 


iFridayj)> ········ Q 
.,;•, .•·);::-: tit" •t•
1 

~;Saturday "' ~ 
< ~. •'·,
Sund"1Y -~.:~.~r "· .Q.. ·. 
80s 
.......... ........ •••

C 2001 AccuWeather, Inc. cow WARM STATIO/IIARY
Mo~~~ 
Atlanta 74 62 Las Vegas 84 60 Portland 56 40
\ 
t·r··-" 

Baltimore 74 27 Memphis 80 62 Sacramento 61 48 
Boston 74 27 Milwaukee 50 43 St Louis 71 58Q5,;~,~4.QQ ~ ~ ~ 68 New York 49 54
Chicago 48 70 Tampa 78 Showers T-storms Rain FJ~rries 5~ Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Houston 88 67 Philadelphia 34 56 Washington. DC 75 54 V1.t A&soaa!IKI Pre1111 GfllOhicsNBI 
THIS WEEK IN SOUTH BEND 
Wednesday 
. 
Event: "Lincoln presents the Emancipation Proclamation," all day. Northern Indiana Center for History. 

. 
Meeting: South Bend Rotary Club meeting, 12 p.m., Century Center. 


OUTSIDE THE DOME 
AMES, Iowa 

Members of the state Board of Regents announced Gregory Geoffroy as the 14th president of Iowa State University Tuesday night. The deci­sion came after more than 12 hours of deliberation. 
Geoffroy is senior vice president for Academic Affairs and provost at the University of Maryland, College Park. 
"I'm just delighted to have this· opportunity to lead this wonderful university," Geoffroy said. 'Tm really glad that the board has the confidence in me to choose me for this position, and I look forward to joining you this summer." 
The board began interviewing each of the four finalists at 8 a.m. Monday. The other three were Sharon Stephens Brehm, provost of Ohio 
NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY 
Study to deal truth on gambling 
EVANSTON, Ill. 

Six hundred Northwestern University students chosen at random received surveys last week for a national study assessing gambling practices on college campus­es. The 21-question survey, conducted by the National Association of Student Personnel Administrators, ques­tions students' involvement in a variety of gambling practices such as purchasing lottery tickets, playing casino games and betting on sports. "We hear a lot about gambling on college campuses," said Mary Desler, assistant vice president for student affairs. "But no one really knows the extent to which students are gambling." The NU athletic department has coped with gambling problems in the past couple years. Kyle Coughlin, interim director of media services for the ath­letic department, said sports-related gambling is not exclusive to NU. "It's an epidemic across all collegiate athletics,'' Coughlin said. "Obviously, Northwestern has had a dark time with gambling, but we've come to accept that and get past it." 
Thursday 
. Event: "Lincoln presents the Emancipation Proclamation," all day, Northern Indiana Center for History. 

"I'm just delighted to have this opportunity to lead this wonderful university.,, 
Gregory Geoffroy New President 
University, and James Melsa, dean of engineering at Iowa State. 
Board of Regents President Owen Newlin said the regents chose Geoffroy for his experience with acad­emics at land-grant universities. 
"Dr. Geoffroy has experience as a professor, a department head, a dean, a provost and an acting president," Newlin said. "Some of this experience occurred at two different land-grant 
WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY 
Clinton pardons alum for protest 
ST. LOUIS, Mo. 

On his final day in office, former President Bill 
Clinton granted 140 pardons, one of which fell upon 
Washington University alum Howard Mechanic. In 
1970, Mechanic was arrested for throwing a cherry 
bomb at the Army ROTC building on the WU campus 
during an anti-war protest. After his arrest, 
Mechanic fled, escaping his five-year sentence. He 
lived in Phoenix for more than twenty years under 
the alias Gary Tredway before being discovered by a 
local reporter during Mechanic's campaign for city 
council in Scottsdale. Associate Professor of History 
Henry Berger was impressed with the support for 
Mechanic's pardon nationwide. "There was a 
tremendous amount of effort across the country," 
said Berger. who noted that support was offered 
from both "'the famous and the not-so-famous." 
Mechanic joined 139 others on Clinton's list of par­
dons. Clinton's pardons were announced on his final 
day in office. 
Friday 

. Event: Notre Dame Student Film Festival, 7:30 
p.m.. Snite Museum of Art. 
institutions, so he understands the complexities of the land-grant univer­sity." 
Geoffroy was also one of three presi­dential finalists at University of Kentucky at Lexington. He called Kentucky before the formal announce­ment to inform them of his acceptance of Iowa State's offer. The Kentucky board was to vote on their new presi­dent tonight. 
Geoffrey said he picked Iowa State over Kentucky because of the people he met while visiting the campus and because of his scientific background. 
"Both are fine universities, and I just think that Iowa State is a better match for my own background and inter­ests." he said. "It has great strength in the sciences and technology. and it just felt right." 
Saturday 
. Fundraising: St. Joseph Tree Sales Program, all day, the Soil and Water Conservation District office. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Iowa State U. regents select Geoffroy 
Wednesday, January 24, 200 I page 3 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Harvard prof voices racial issues 
By KJFLIN TURNER 
News Writer 
Cornel West on Tuesday urged the continuation of edu­cation through open discourse in promoting awareness of the unsettling social situations that con­tinue to exist not only in America, but also in t h e interna­tional sphere. 
"I hope I 

West 

say some­thing that thoroughly unsettles you," West said. "There's a transfor­mative possibility in the very experience of critical ques­tioning and doubting, and interrogating whatever the dogma," said West. 
"It Takes a Village to Plant the Future" was the theme of the renowed Harvard profes­sor's lecture to the Notre Dame community as a part of three days of Martin Luther King, Jr. celebrations on cam­pus. 
"Martin Luther King Jr. comes out of a 
instead promoted hope of a progressive movement towards reform. 
"Look at the life of Martin Luther King Jr. and not only him, because he's not to be viewed as an icon put on a pedestal to be worshipped ­he's a wave in an ocean ­he's part of a tradition of vital vibrant tradition." 
Dispelling the notion that tradition is inheritable, West affirmed that tradition is something that the generations must fight for in order to pre­serve its authenticity. 
"We're talking about a tradi­tion of struggle when we talk about Martin process of objectifying a peo­ple and their history has not only survived but it is a psy­chological barrier that often prevents social progress and denies the rights of African­Americans today through neg­ative images portrayed through pop-culture and the media. 
The concept of a global vil­lage was the goal of King in establishing an interdependent community that strives to strengthen an inclusive democracy by insuring the equal rights of all of its mem­bers through education and 
discourse. 
Luther King, 

"There's a transformative
Jr.," he said. 

The struggle is possibility in the very to define what it experience ofcritical is to be human 
questioning and doubt­
in a society that 

ing. and interrogating
has historically denied the right whatever the dogma.·· of humanity to African­
Cornel West 
Americans. "For a particu­Harvard professor 
tradition "We're talking about a 
The strugglesof a par­tradition ofstruggle towards egalitari­ticular an liberties of
when we talk about 

people modern African­
who are Martin Luther King, Jr.·· Americans are t h e often permeated q u e s -by a psychic vio­
Cornel West

tioning, lence of self-hating 
Harvard professor

inquisi­in a society that t i V e , degrades and den­curious igrates, said West. 
people of a certain kind of "What is slavery but social .dogmas-especially the dogmas death?" asked West, citingof white supremacy," he said. that the early existences of 
West argued against the African slaves was devoid of complacency and the stagna­equal social status and value. tion of thought and action, and Years later, this demeaning 
lar people who have their humanity systemati­cally and thoroughly called into question every day of their lives the question of what it means to be human takes on 
some urgency," said West. 
" T h e ways in which vil­lages are created has much to do not only with the vision a n d courage of those who reside in those vil­

lages, but the circumstances and conditions in which they are constructed," said West. 
"Martin Luther King Jr. was · the most visible leader of that movement to accent multi­racial democratic possibili­ties." 
Through finding and uplift­ing the voices that demand equality and a forum on which to make those voices heard, West endorsed the idea of active democratic thought and action. 
"It's a precious notion ­that Democratic discourse ­very precious notion, the idea that everyday people, ordinary people's voices ought to be heard at the highest levels of the decision making processes at institutions that guide and regulate their lives." 
Sex Offense Services undergoes changes 
By NICK SWEEDO News Writer 
Sex Offense Services, the organization which has served the Notre Dame com­munity and Saint Joseph County for 27 years, has a new name, a new logo, and a new program. The organiza­tion, which handles rape, sex­ual assault, sexual harass­ment, and other sex offenses. will now officially be called the S-0-S, which is the tradi­tional call for help. 
Along with the new name comes the new symbol for the center, a starfish. Laurel Eslinger, the director of the center. thought to make the starfish the official S-0-S logo after reading "The Star Thrower", a short story by Loren Eiseley. 
The new logo was designed by a former Notre Dame stu­dent, Alicia Reinert. The starfish is clearly visible at S­0-S, even in Eslinger's office. "I have been given gifts of starfish," she said. "I have a beautiful gold starfish bracelet, starfish ornaments, and even real starfish." 
Additionally, the center has a new program called DOVE which will help victims of domestic violence. Another branch of the DOVE program is called RAP (Relationships are Positive). This program, which teaches positive dating relationships, will be present­ed to local middle schools and high schools in the area. 
The first of 11 training ses­sions for new volunteers is on Feb. 1 from 6 to 9 pm at the center on East Madison Street. 
Anyone who is interested in becoming a volunteer must first contact Eslinger for an application at 219-283-1308. 
. Interested in ­writing for the news department? 
Call 1-5323. 

CHI L-D~EN IN A~tAr A~t ~tAD1NG TH~tt 


8tH1ND 
L,z.., DwYEP-) r TH, ltJ) 
(N ONE YEAP-1 

THt, ~ rueu~8AN Ptt~r. 
G~DEP-r iEGAN THE YEAP-THAT PAP­
> 

rHE f CAtJGHT THEM vP AND PtJT THEM A l-EVEl-Pl-AY1NG 



INFORMATION SESSION 
Thursday, January 25, 2001 • 6:00 p.m. University of Notre Dame DeBartolo Hall, Room 207 
TEACHFORAMERICA 
1-Ro o-TP.""--12. 3o www.T€1'CHPO~"'-Mfll-1 c1'.011-G rECOND APPl,..1CAT10N DEADL-1NE ,r FEiP-.v.A.~.Y 2.6, 2.oo, 
eEH1ND. ON 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, January 24, 200 I 
ties. While minority student easier through connections she "You can't have a club if time. That does not mean. how­retention rate was within 3 per­began to make with the there's only 10 people on cam­ever. that Latinas are more of a
Retention 

cent of the majority retention Hispanic-American community pus, and not all 10 participate," priority than African Americans. 
continued from page I rate for the classes of 1999, 2000 
and 2001, those numbers have 
dropped. While the College was ized the diversity numbers were retaining an average of 84 per­low. However, having come from cent of minority students through a predominantly Catholic, mixed the class of 2001, minority reten­elementary school, she didn't tion dropped by 14 percent in the think that race was going to be a class of 2002. While the numbers problem. rebounded slightly for the class 
It was. of 2003, minority retention for 
"I didn't care where I went as the current sophomore class long as I got out of my state," stands at only 7 4 percent. 
Thompson remembered. "When However, with a total minority I visited Saint Mary's, it was gor­enrollment of only 7.1 percent geous -I loved the nature set­campus wide, losing even a few 
ting. But I didn't factor in that in minority students can make the elementary school, it wasn't statistical differences seem huge. about color. It's different in col­While there was a 14 percent lege." drop-off in retention between the 
For Thompson and other classes 2001 and 2002, the African-American women on College lost only 6 more minority campus, adjusting to Saint students in 1998 than they had Mary's _is a difficult task given in 1997. When minority enroll­
the small numbers from their ment is already low, however, ethnic group enrolled on cam­students assert that losing even pus. Confronted with false racial one member of a minority com-
stereo­ munity makes  a  
types, lack  a of  "I'm not back because  huge impact. "There are  so  
minority faculty and a lack of African  Saint Mary's is such a great place -Tm back becasue it's not a good  few of us. that for each one of us that leaves, it's a defi­nite blow to the  
American  business decision to  numbers,"  said  
writers and role  leave.··  Myra McGriff, a junior African­ 
models in  American student  
the College curricu­lum, many African  Apryl Underwood sophomore in Saint Mary's  who heads Sisters of Nefertitti, a multicultural group that aims to  

American students find them­bring cultural awareness to cam­selves feeling isolated -and pus. "When even one of us fast. leaves, it hurts." Those feelings of isolation lead Yet while overall minority some African-American women retention decreased between to consider transferring as they 1998 and 1999, the College struggle through freshman year, remained consistently high in often unable to find connections retaining Latina students. 
with women of their own race Retention rates for Latina stu­and identify role models in dents have been higher than 
College faculty and administra­general minority retention rates tion. for the past two years. 
Apryl Underwood, a sopho­Regina Diaz. president of La more African-American student Fuerza, an outreach group that from Fort Wayne, Ind., under­is comprised primarily of Latina 
stands those feelings of isolation. or Hispanic-American students, 
When her parents made the believes the difference in reten­
decision for her that she was tion is a result of the increasing going to attend Saint Mary's, numbers in the Latina communi-Underwood admits that she ty. 
..Because there are more of us, 
knew little about the racial com­position of the College. After a we are able to see, communicate, year and a half at Saint Mary's, and relate to each other," Diaz 
said. "If I can't relate to students, she now knows the conse­or relate to a faculty member, Iquences of low minority enroll­would second guess if this is thement all too well. 
"I was this close to leaving," place for me. It's easier for us because there are more of us ­
Underwood said. pinching her we've become much more pre­

thumb and forefinger close together. 'Tm not back because sent [on campus]," Diaz said. 
Hispanic-American enrollment
Saint Mary's is such a great place -I'm back because it's not has consistently exceeded other 
a good business decision to minority group enrollment on campus for the past decade, and
leave." 

the group makes up the majority
As a pre-med student, 

of the minority population onUnderwood didn't want to risk campus. Even though there arelosing the academic credit she 70 Latina students enrolled at
had already logged at Saint 

Saint Mary's, however, the num­Mary's, especially with a long 
bers do not rid them of the
medical school career ahead of adjustment problems that other

her. Sticking it out at Saint Mary's became a choice between minority groups face. 
.Lilly Morales, a Mexican­her future and her temporary American student originally from happiness. 
Brownsville, Texas, noticed
She chose her future. "I couldn't face the possibility immediately that she was in the 
minority upon her arrival onof losing credit and having to campus in 1998. Having spent
take courses over again," 

Underwood said. "Saint Mary's time with Mexican-American stu­dents during the application
may have a lot of drawbacks for process. she was caught by sur­minorities, but I don't have the prise when she couldn't identify

endurance mentally or emotion­ally to do this again." anyone of her race. 
"My first day here, I sawNot all minority students make nobody who was Mexican­the same choices as Thompson 
American," Morales said. "I
and Underwood to remain at Saint Mary's, however. While checked into my room, and 
walked through the door, and
College administrators have tout­ed high minority retention rates both of my roommates were 
among the African-American. white. I was scared out of my mind," she said. "I asked them
American Indian/Alaskan Native, 

Asian-American and Hispanic­which bed I was sleeping in. I left, and I didn't come back until
American students, recent trends have shown that the College is late that night." 

Morales· adjustment was madehaving trouble retaining minori­at Saint Mary's -connections she said were critical to keeping her on campus. 
"I wouldn't have made it to my junior year [without them]," Morales said. "Some members of the student body are very close minded, and don't want to see the word diversity. Sometimes, it's just been ridiculous, the com­ments people make. Being here would be very difficult if I didn't have anyone to speak Spanish with ... it helps, because they can tell me. 'Don't take what people say so seriously,"' Morales said. 
The La Fuerza program, in conjunction with the Office of Multicultural Affairs, makes efforts to reach Latina students before they even set foot on cam­pus through a pen pal program. Letting students know that they have a support system early on in their college experience is important, Diaz said. 
"We like to let them know that we 're here ahead of time. [We're} a very big support sys­tem. Even if they don't want to be active in the group. we let them know there are girls willing to be there for them," Diaz said. 
The Office of Multicultural Affairs makes strong efforts to connect minority students with other multicultural students and provide information about differ­ent cultures for all students. Terri Johnson, director of Multicultural Affairs, believes these connections are critical. 
"We do talk to students about 
how do you deal with being the 
only one sometimes," Johnson 
said. "We try to serve as mentors 
and advisors, and try to get the 
students involved in the commu­
nity." 
But while LaFuerza provides a 
solid support system for 
Hispanic-American students, it is 
more difficult for some African­
American students to take 
advantage of a cultural network. 
With fewer students. trying to 
connect with each other can be 
nearly impossible. 
McGriff said. "And if you feel like "There is an equal push [for you're always hitting walls, and African-American and Latina you'll never get anything accom­students]." Carrandi de Bowe plished -the group will dis­said. "The College doesn't differ­solve." entiate when we put together 
It is also difficult for the diversity goals. We talk about African-American community to groups equally. It just happens watch the College commit to that [Saint Mary's] is a better fit diversity through programs such for one group than another." as this fall's Chicana 2000! pro­That fit has a lot to do with the gram, a series of lectures and Catholic nature of the College, coursework designed to raise Carrandi de Bowe said, which awareness about the Chicana can be a roadblock to admitting culture. While some African­African-American students. American students " I ' m feel the College's reluctant
"We like to let them know 
commitment to to make
that we ·re here ahead of
diversity is impor­big gener­tant, they feel their time." alizations. own diverse experi-but a lot ences are being of Latina
Regina Diaz
ignored. students 
"It's not polite to president of La Fuerza c o m e 
have Saint Mary's be comprised of dif­ferent cultures and showcase one without recognizing the other ones," Underwood said. 
"They chose [the theme] because there are more Latinas on campus ... it's not fair that they're educating the entire freshman class about that cul­ture, but not doing anything that educates about our culture," Thompson said. 
While the numbers of Hispanic-American students are drastically higher than the num­bers of African-American stu­dents, admissions officers do rec­ognize that improvement is need­ed in recruiting and retaining African-American students. Affiliations in programs such as the National Hispanic Organization simply do a better job of making connections with Latina communities, said Mona Carrandi de Bowe, associate director of admissions, who spe­cializes in multicultural recruit­ing. While the admissions office is working on making new con­nections with programs that spe­cialize in African-American con­nections. such as the A Better Chance program, changes take 
from fam­
ilies that are comfortable sending their daughters to a Catholic women's college," she said. "If an African American student who isn't Catholic isn't comfortable with their religion, the Catholic envi­ronment [can be a deterrent]." 
While the Latina population has grown faster than the African-American population on campus, the total campus minor­ity enrollment lingers at just 7.1 percent. When minority students only make up 111 faces on a campus of 1565, regardless of race, the experience is a difficult one. Surviving as a minority is a task that takes determination, willpower and pride, say several minority students. 
"If you're really serious about your education, you need to have the ganas [Spanish for will] to get what you want at Saint Mary's," Morales said. 
"You have to work twice as 
hard to prove that you belong 
here," Underwood said. "I want 
to know how many Caucasian 
girls on this campus could go to 

an all-black school. That's how 
special you have to be to be a 
black girl at an all-white school." 


TONIGHT 
Wednesday, January 24 

6:00 p.m. -Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Presented by Student Government 
AN INTERACTIVE FORUM "COLORS OF THE WORLD" 
Student Panelists: Vanessa Assad '03, Kelly Cooney '01, Joyce De Leon '03, 
Brian Moscona '03, Abdul R. Omar, Graduate & DaveWyncott '01 Moderator: Fr. Tim Scully, c.s.c. Executive Vice President and Professor ofGovernment 
(Door prizes· MLK Celebration t-shirt -see display at the Lafortune Information Desk.) 
TOMORROW 
Thursday, January 25 

7:00 p.m. -Keenan-Stanford Chapel 
PRAYER SERVICE "MUSTARD SEED FAITH" 
Reflections: University President Fr. Edward (Monk) Malloy, c.s.c. and Rene Mulligan '01 
For Information, contact Chandra Johnson (631-3748), lris Outlaw (631-6841) or Priscilla Wong (631-5242) 


ATI 

Wednesday, January 24, 200 I COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Iraqi militants arrested: Iranian securi­ty officers have arrested or killed members of an insurgent group near the Iraqi border, state television reported Tuesday. Militants with the Mujahedeen Khalq had "infiltrated the country from Iraq, intending to carry out acts of terror­ism and cause trouble." according to the English-language state media report. 
New Czech 1V law: The Czech parlia­ment approved a new television law Tuesday, hoping to resolve a monthlong standoff over the nation's public broadcasting station. Legislators voted 120 to 50 in favor of the law. The new measure calls for members of the Czech Television Council to be nominated by non-gov­ernmental organizations instead of by politi­cians. It aims to eliminate political bias in the station's management team. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Philadelphia man pleads guilty: One of 10 former employees of the city's medical examiner's office pleaded guilty Tuesday to stealing from bodies at the morgue. Leon Henry Jr., 29, stole credit cards from two bodies and gave the cards to someone who purchased computers and other merchandise worth more than $28,000, Assistant U.S. Attorney Michael Schwartz said. Under a plea agreement, prose­cutors will recommend that Henry serve 18 months to two years in jail. 
California avoids blackouts: California energy officials eked sufficient power out of tight West Coast electricity supplies Tuesday to avoid rush hour blackouts as lawmakers scrambled to make longer-term deals to buy power. In Washington, the Bush administration bought time for the state by extending emer­gency requirements forcing electricity and nat­ural gas companies to keep supplying energy to California's almost banctrupt utlities. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Police search for suspects in stolen ATVs: Police searched Tuesday for the remaining suspect after two men stole all-terrain vehicles from a dealership, then shot at the owner as he chased them on a third four-wheeler. Police arrested Edward White Jr., 28, of Terre Haute on Monday night and charged him with theft. Two men wearing camouflage clothing and black ski masks had stolen new. red Polaris four-wheelers from Linton Cycle Sales about 3 p.m. Monday. 
Market Watch 1/23 
Dow 
10,649.81 +71.57 
/ONES 
Composite Volume: 
NIA
-54~t --

Nasdaq: 2840.39 +82.48 
' .. •, ' .::·· ', :·.::·: '• . . ' ' . ·. ... . ... : .. . 
S&P 500: 1360.40 +17.50 TOPS VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE INTEL CORP (INTC) +6.01 .2.00 35.38 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +2.85 + 1.18 42.62 NASDAQ JOO SHAR (QQQ) +2.10 +1.39 67.77 DELL COMPUTER (DELL) +3.45 +0.88 26,38 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) +3.48 +l.06 31.56 

Texas fugitive's hideout raided 
Associated Press 

WOODLAND PARK 
The seven escaped convicts from Texas played loud Christian music in their cramped RV perhaps to make themselves look innocent and God­fearing and kept mostly to them­selves as they hid out in this peace­ful town for three weeks. 
At least one of the men attended Bible study sessions and befriended several residents, who were impressed with his knowledge of Scripture. 
Several frequented a coffee shop. Some even felt safe enough to go drinking and dancing in area night­clubs. But they kept their heads down while walking past others through the itinerant workers' mobile home park where their RV was parked. And at least two had disguised themselves by dyeing their hair. 
Woodland Park Police Sgt. Bill Sumner speculated the men played Christian music for well-calculated reasons. 
"That's what I'd do in a heart­beat," Sumner said. "The No. 1 way to look innocuous and innocent is to look real religious." 
He said he wasn't surprised the men melted into the town without arousing suspicion: "They were pil­lars of the community for the time they were here." 
One of the biggest manhunts in the Southwest's history ended Monday for five of the convicts. Four were arrested peacefully and a fifth killed himself in the motor home at the Coachlight Motel and RV Park rather than surrender to law officers who had the place surrounded. 
The two other convicts remained at large Tuesday as state and federal officers pursued thousands of leads. 
A van used by the missing two was found abandoned in a Colorado Springs motel parking lot Tuesday, and authorities checked hotels for the men. The van was said to contain duf­fel bags, maps and hair color. 
Federal firearms charges were dis­missed Tuesday against the four in custody to expedite their transfer to Texas, where they could face the death penalty on state murder charges in the slaying of a policeman during a holdup at a sporting goods store. 
CHILE 
AFP Photo 

Supporters of fonner Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet shout slogans of support In front of his house while he was­being questioned by Judge Guzman Jan. 23 in Santiago. Pinochet was questioned on human rights charges. 
Pinochet faced last interrogation 
immediately available. during his 1973.. 1990 dic­tests that showed he suf­
Associated Press 
But Hiram Villagra, a tatorship. But the Caravan fers from "moderate SANTIAGO lawyer for the prosecution, of Death may be the inci­dementia," a diagnosis that Geri. Augusto Pinochet said he was told that dent that ends up dragging could influence Guzman's decision on whether to
was interrogated Tuesday Pinochet denied responsi­him to trial: Guzman has by the judge seeking to try bility for the "Caravan of been trying to indict the press for a trial. him on human rights Death," a military group 85-year-old Pinochet for Tuesday's interrogation charges, the last step need­that executed 75 political atrocities committed by the was the last legal step ed to decide whether to prisoners shortly after the military group. before Guzman makes his 
decision. He did not com­

press charges against the 1973 coup that Pinochet Guzman indicted former dictator despite his led. That report was also Pinochet last month, but ment, but another prosecu­poor health. carried by local radio sta­the charges were dropped tion lawyer's statement 
by the Supreme Court seemed to indicate that aJudge Juan Guzman was tions. 
inside Pinochet's heavily According to an official because the judge failed to re-indictment was on the guarded suburban report by the civilian gov­first interrogate Pinochet -horizon. Santiago mansion for two ernment that succeeded a requirement he fulfilled "This is a historic day hours and 15 minutes. Pinochet in 1990, at least Tuesday. After the failed because dictator has for 
indictment, Pinochet the first time submitted
Details on their meeting -3,200 people were killed 
underwent four days of himself to a judge," said
the first time the two met for political reasons and face-to-face -were not another 1, 197 disappeared mental and neurological lawyer Eduardo Contrera. 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, January 24, 2001 
Race 
continued from page 1 
While the questions usually are not vicious and stern mostly from curiosity and a desire to understand other cultures. the questions weigh heavily on minority students at Notre Dame. 
"Some people don't want that extra burden," said Patrick Parks, a senior anthropology major who is conducting a study on Notre Dame's retention of minority students. "Because academic 
pressure 
"Because academic pressure 

here at ology [to suc­N o t r e here at Notre Dame is ceed in a pre­
Dame is already strenuous. having dominantly 
already all-white
that extra burden is 

strenuous. environ­
having that something that causes stress ment]," he extra bur­for a lot ofstudents... said. "What 
den is that means is something that they
Patrick Parks 

that causes can't take a 
ND senior anthropology major

stress for a nationalist 
lot of stu­dents. Sometimes they aren't even cognizant of how much weight that is bearing on them and causing them to falter in other aspects of soci­ety." 
Uplifting the spirits of those who must bear this burden is one of the keys to retaining minority students, according to Chandra Johnson, co-chair of the University's recruitment and retention committee. Services provided by MSPS and multicul­tural clubs are the key to invigo­rating minority students. The sense of a community among multicultural students can be lost when they are dispersed in the general population. The clubs and MSPS programs help minority students find a familiar face. 
''When you know that a com­
munity represents who you are, 
you are strengthened when you 
go out into mainstream and do 
your thing," Johnson said. 
"Because you have seen a group 
-regardless of how small ­
there is a group of people who 
represent who you are and have 
the same experiences. They 
smell the same. They do their 
hair the same. They understand 
your jokes. It's a strengthening 
tool." 
Veronica Trevino, an Hispanic 
.,,.,, 
/J.'1e
f.....:!inceton
Review 

freshman from California, agrees with Johnson. 
"I think the different programs available to minorities help retain students," she said. "Just knowing that there are other minorities on this campus and knowing that there are organi­zations on this campus helps a lot." 
While the multicultural clubs and services may renew minori­ty students spirits, Parks, an African-American, has found that it is important that minority students are also active in main­stream activities as well. 
"Researchers have said it takes a minority student who 
will take on a 
minority ide­
approach and 'stick with their own 

kind.' The researchers believe that Hispanics who branch out to different communities, like the [overall] community.'' 
While not every student who chooses to join only multicultur­al clubs and spend time only with minority students is des­tined to dislike Notre Dame, Parks believes that students who integrate themselves into the general community are more likely to thrive. 
"I've seen some students who are really active within their communities but don't branch out very much and they have been successful," he said. "But in my experience that is a rarity here." 
So somehow at Notre Dame, minority students must become, in a sense, super minorities. They must bear the burden of curiosity from their white class­mates. They must become active members of their own ethnic communities and help support each other. They must join other clubs and activities to engrain themselves in mainstream cul­ture. And somehow, amid all their extra-curricular activity. they must keep up with Notre Dame's rigorous class work. 
Some students wilt under this pressure and transfer. Others, like Nikki McCord, a sophomore 
Better Scores. Bettet:,,~Schools. 
_.,,,.­

MCAT Prep classes start soon 
·" 

95% of our past students think we're the best way to_pfepare for the MCAI 
/
/ 
Here's why you'll agree: 
Small class size­
/ 
:112 students on average 
72 class hours-

Phis five full-length proctored practice exams 
4,oqo practice material pages­

30 MCATs worth of practice passages 
Proven Results­

8 point average score improvement 
. Notre Dame classes start February 3. 
Call or register on-line today! 
--.......______.__ 

www.PrincetonReview.com 800-2-REVIEW 
from Dallas who is involved with University was serious about students from different back­several multicultural programs addressing their concerns. grounds will continue to bear and the sena-"[RacismJ is the standard for their ethnicity. tor from such a part of But each minority student that Pasquerilla "/ think Notre Dame our social his­comes to Notre Dame and staysEast, thrive. wants those types of tory for so at Notre Dame lightens the bur­"I enjoy long," Johnson den on their classmates a little
students who are going
. being a role said. "Notre bit. In the meantime, the super
model," said to, in their own way, 
Dame has minorities will continue to sup­McCord, an enrich the lives ofpeople made tremen­port each other and wait for the 
African 
dous strikes to day when they are no longer a
at the University. :·
American. "I 
not necessarily rarity.
think Notre 
rectify or cor­"I tell {students who are strug­Dame wants Nikki McCord rect them but gling at Notre Dame] that by one 
those types of 
ND sophomore recognize these student coming to Notre Dame,
students who are going to, in their own way, enrich the lives of people at the University." 
Incidents of racism, inten­tioned or through ignorance, are still the kryptonite that can sap the strength from these super minorities, however. 
'The major challenge now are those instances where one per­son says the wrong thing," Johnson said. "I would like to say they are isolated but I don't think they are isolated yet. It exacerbates a situation that a person was really trying to embrace the culture. It's even more dramatic if it is done by a faculty member or a rector. It's not the majority of folk. It's just one or two but it can really break your spirit." 
The problems and roots of racial insensitivity goes far beyond the bounds of Notre Dame's campus and the solution cannot be mandated at Notre Dame. Only time and education can erode this ignorance, according to Johnson. In the meantime, Johnson said the University has taken steps to be more aware of the problems minority students face and try to work through the unexpected incidents. 
The University's public sup­
port of the four African 
American students arrested by 
Roseland police on Feb. 27, 
2000, was a strong statement to 
minority students that the things can 
indeed hurt and effect a group of people.'' 
Until the day when a greater understanding of the many cul­tures at Notre Dame is reached, they are doing their part to ensure that this is a diverse campus and that each student can add their own diversity to the Notre Dame community," McCord said. 
~ Attention/A -<$ Juniors!!! 'Ip. 
Lector Auditions for JPW Mass 
will be held 
Monday, Jan. 29th@4 pm 
and Tuesday, Jan. 30th@ 7 pm 
in the Basilica. 
Come audition to be part 
ofthis event!!! 
Questions? Contact Brooke Glessing 
@4-1674 or Glessing.l@nd.edu. 
SUMMER INTERNSHIP OPPORTUNITIES 
at a WORLD-CLASS/GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FACILITY 
The Environmental Research Institute, a joint activity of Notre Dame and Argonne National Laboratory, in collaboration with the Center for Environmental Science and Technology (CEST), will award up to 2 summer internships at Argonne National Laboratory for 2001 with a follow-up research appointment on campus in the Fall. Stipend, room and board are provided for the 10-week program at Argonne. 
Student applicants should have research interests in an environmentally-related discipline (any field of study) concerned with or likely to contribute to the understanding, assessment, or improvement of the environment. Applicants must be US citizens or pennanent residents, enrolled at Notre Dame, have completed their Junior Year by May 2001, and be registered to return in the Fall of2001. 
For more details, contact Donna Fecher in the Center for Environmental Science and Technology: 152A Fitzpatrick Hall, 631-8376. Applicants will be required to complete an application. 
Deadline is February 23, 2001. 
Wednesday, January 24, 2001 page 7 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Students comment on DC journey 
abortion," said Holy Cross biased against the pro-life
By MAUREEN SMITHE sophomore Kevin Potello. movement," Dudley said. "This 
Assistant News Editor 
Additionally, students chose is one ofthose really emotional to make the 12-hour drive issues. We will not let it go
In Saturday evening's dark­because they want Washington away." ness, 23 Notre Dame, Saint politicians to recognize the Bus captain Erica DeVoir Mary's and Holy Cross stu­pro-life side of the raging abor­agreed. dents left the comfort and tion debate. "I think the media overall is familiarity of their campuses to "I would like to see Bush pro-choice," she said. "The join 330 of their fellow class­overturn Roe vs. Wade," said connotations in the words they mates in search of a cause. In Notre Dame freshman Dave use to describe us are harmful. what some may consider an Vosburg. Instead of calling us 'pro-life' ironic twist, these students "Hopefully politicians will they refer to use as 'anti­depended on a bus driver take notice," said Kevin choice' or 'anti-abortion named Moses to lead them to Somok, a freshman at Notre rights."' their glory, the March for Life Dame. ''I'd like to see a partial As the bus continued on in Washington birth abortion through the night, students DC. ban, and I'd twisted and turned uncomfort­
With the "The March is about like to see ably in search of the most com­hum of the rejuvenating the politicians fortable sleeping position. bus as con­create a However, weary eyes were
movement.

stant back­Constitutional apparent the next morning ground noise, The work we do is so amendment upon arrival in the gray morn­students discouraging because the against abor­ing hours. aboard Bus tion altogeth­"I could not fall asleep and I
press is very biased 

157 had plen­er." am exhausted now," said Saint ty of time to against the pro-life Notre Dame Mary's freshman Kim Manus reflect on why movement.,, Right to Life as she carried her bags into they chose to president the hotel. "Despite the rough give up a Kaitlyn ride last night, I think this is 
Kaitlyn Dudley 

weekend at Dudley said going to be a really good expe­college. Right to Life president the March is rience." 
"I think it's about more The other 330 Notre Dame a worthwhile than just students who had arrived a cause," said Angela Scuiletti, a overturning Roe vs. Wade, the day earlier greeted the 23 from freshman at Saint Mary's. "I 28-year old Supreme Court Bus 157. As these students 
know abortion is wrong -my decision legalizing abortion in from the Notre Dame commu­mom has taught me that since all 50 states. nity gathered together to share I was a little kid." "The March is about rejuve­in a weekend of marching and 
"I feel so strongly against nating the movement. The protesting, they were nour­abortion. My parents and faith work we do is so discouraging ished with a little taste of home encouraged me to be against because the press is very -a Grab N Go breakfast. 
. 


fir&t Meeting o 
Informational Meeting Thursday, January 25th 7pm Jordan Auditorium 
Mendoza College of Business 
Notre Dame senior wins Marshall award 
able in exactly the same way at By SHEILA FLYNN other institutions." 
News Writer 
During his three and a half 

years at Notre Dame, Swinarski 
When British Ambassador Sir has been active in communityChristopher Meyer read the list service and sang in the Notre of prestigious Marshall scholar­Dame folk choir. ships on Dec. 2, 2000, Notre Swinarski said he chose to Dame senior David Swinarski 
attend Oxford because its 
was proud, surprised and excit­"mathematics department is ed to learn that he earned a one of the best in the world. On two year scholarship to Oxford. the whole, Oxford is one of the 
The Marshall scholarships best universities in the world, were established after World which is important to me War II in 1953 as a British ges­because I have interests outside ture of thanks for the aid the sciences, namely literature, 
extended to Europe by the music, and liberation theology.
United States as part of the Oxford colleges are even 
Marshall plan. They are award­stronger social units than 
ed to American students who dorms at Notre Dame, combin­
have demonstrated academic ing academics with residential 
excellence and leadership life and sports and music etc. I 
potential. and enable these hope to live in one of the older 
scholars to continue their stud­colleges and connect with a 
ies for two years at any British group of people I would nev~r 
University, all expenses paid. have met if I stayed m 
Swinarski gave most of the America." 
credit for his scholarship to the After completing a master's 
Notre Dame community and the degree program in mathemat­
opportunities he has had as a ics at Oxford, Swinarski plans 
student. on pursuing a doctorate-in 
"I could not have assembled math and, ultimately. to teach 
the application I submitted if and conduct research at the 
not for the many opportunities I university level. 
have had at Notre Dame," he "It'll be a fun two years," he 
said. "Many of the core experi­said. 'TU get my feet wet in the 
ences which have been essen­waters of mathematical 
tial dimensions of my life as an research, and then I'll return to 
undergraduate are not avail-the U.S. to finish my Ph.D." 
· ounc1 
All M · 
IA, OJ0rs are 
Yve/come/ 
' 

Free Online Classifieds:observer~nd.edu 
Wednesday, January 24, 2001 

page 8 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
him. presence felt throughout the protesting, Dudley had a clothing, for donation to local "He was waving a sign that duration of the March for Life. chance to think about the pregnancy crisis centers. 
March 

read 'The Fires of Hell Await All Despite the thick crowd, Notre impact of the pro-life move­Dudley said she also plans to Abortionists.' That isn't the kind Dame was recognized as a ment and what direction she help the national movement
continued from page 1 

of message we want to send to force in the March. would like it to head in. grow as a whole. She blames pro-choicers," Dudley said, "It's a very positive experi­"There are places for the movement's unfavorable Monday afternoon with signs, proud of her work. "His was a ence. This is a big, peaceful unwanted babies," Dudley press coverage on the fact that 
said, the passion in her voice it lacks a central leader. 
pamphlets and banners to listen sign of hate, not of life, and protest," Suarez said. 
noticeable "We need a dynamic leader
to the few vocal pro-life politi­Notre Dame responded to it." Beginning at 
When Dudley suggested he the Ellipse near as she cited the press can turn to, such as
cians in Washington today. 

"When I was a freshman 
take the sign down, the man the Washington that 20 who Martin Luther King Jr. wasVarious congressmen and sena­
Monument and only about 45 students percent of in the civil rights movement,"
tors were on hand to encourage argued. 

the crowd to persevere in their ..He said that if you kill babies leading up to the came out for the March. American Dudley said as she shyly admit­
couples are ted her willingness to be that
fight against abortion. you're going to hell and that Supreme Court, 
Now there are over 350... infertile. person someday. "You can't
[abortionists] need a jolt," she the March wasNelly Gray, March for Life "The move­engineer a person to be that;organizer, discussed her goals said. "We have enough negative felt throughout ment rec­they have to emerge."
and initiatives for the coming images of pro-lifers in the press. the city. Traffic Marion Suarez 
was stopped for ognizes One thing the pro-life move­We need to be positive." 
year and beyond. Notre Dame senior 
"Our whole purpose is to edu­His was not the only negative the hour-long that it is a ment does have is a growing. cate Washington and America. or potentially disturbing sign at protest. hard thing more vocal support base. In 
the rally. Notre Dame was not the only for a woman to go through 1976, 20,000 supporters cameRoe vs. 
Graphic images vocal group during the March. nine months of an inconvenient out for the March. Since 1986,Wade is evil. 
"We have enough of aborted A wide range of organizations pregnancy, but we need to attendance has topped 100,000
It is unjust 

were present, including treat the problem, not kill it." every year. Notre Dame's his­
and pre­negative images of fetuses were on 
several banners National Cops for Life, Dudley stressed the impor­tory with the March exemplifies
born chil­
pro-lifers in the press. 

and flyers. Orthodox Christians for Life, as tance for pro-lifers to continue this growth. 
dren are 

We need to be positive. " "I think it is well as groups from all 50 working for the cause after the "When I was a freshman onlybeing killed. 
about 45 students came out for

disrespectful to states. annual March. 
"The job of 

the babies they "I was very proud of Notre ..The real work of the pro-life the March. Now there are over
stopping 
Kaitlyn Dudley 

are showing." Dame today. We were enthusi­movement is education," she 350. Interest is growing,"
abortion in 

ND Right to Life president DeVoir said. astic, positive, and all of our said. "The protest is just one Suarez said. 
America is 

"Pro-life sup­chants and posters were part of it. It doesn't make a dif­Notre Dame law student John 
for every 

porters believe appropriate and energetic. ference unless we change peo­Fitzgerald predicted increasedAmerican. It ple's minds." attendance as the years pass.
is the responsibility of feminist that the babies in those pic­Everyone knew what they were 
tures were people." there for," Dudley said. "We The Notre Dame Right to Life "It's a great opportunity toabortionists to stop it; they are Despite a few bumps, the represented the best in the club is preparing several events devote yourself to a cause. Atcaught up in it," Gray said to pro-life movement." in the coming year. Dudley is school it is easy to forget aboutroad towards the March was a
the many protesters as they 

most excited about this Spring's what's going on. There's nopositive experience for most.
shivered in the cold. 

Project MOM, wherein the reason not _to come out,""This really is a pro-life
Despite the inclusion of Extending the March 
group will collect baby supplies, Fitzgerald said. 
rally," said Notre Dame senior
Jewish rabbis from New York, On the bus ride home after a 
such as diapers, formula and
the rally maintained a tight Amy Szestak. "I think it's awe­tiring day of marching and some that so many people real­
Christian focus. Priests and pas­ly do want to overturn Roe vs.

to rs from several Christian 
Wade."
denominations were present to Second-time marcher Katieurge the crowd to continue the Rak agreed.

battle, and Christian music 

"This is a once in a lifetimeplayed to welcome the protest­
ers. rally because so many people are in Washington now for the
"It's not a religious issue ­

inauguration. This gets our
it's a civil rights issue. Religion message to the:.,.politicians,"

is a force within us that moti­Rak said. 
vates us," Dudley said. 
The March Pacifying the message 
Who are we?
Throughout the weekend, 
IR!Sll!
Dudley and the other marchers 
What are we?
strived to keep the atmosphere 
PRO-LIFE!
positive and constructive. 

. Singing the Notre Dame fightHowever, one incident at the 
song and shouting modified
Hally forced Dudley into action. 

chants in a spirit reminiscentUpon seeing a potentially neg­of a football pep rally, Notreative poster held up by a pas­Dame and Saint Mary's stu­sionate pro-lifer, Dudley and 
dents strived to make their
two fellow students approached 

Protestors from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's gather in front of the Washington Monument dur­ing the Right to Life March Monday. The March attracted students from across the country. 

Foik Nominations Invited 
The Reverend Paul J. Foik Award Committee invites nominees for the 


... just come to 1st Source. As the area's leading financial 
award. which is given annually to a 

institution, we can offer you unparalleled convenience,
library faculty member who has 

competitive products and pricirg, and a level of service
contributed significantly to library service to the Notre Dame community 

second to none. 
or to the library profession through personal scholarship or involvement in 

Convenience • With over 40 banking centers and
professional associations. The award 

ATMs in the area, 1st Source is everywhere you
is named for the Holy Cross priest ,vho served as director of Notre 

might be. Visit our full-service office in the Haggar 
Dame's library from 1912 to 1924 and 

College Center at Saint Mary's, complete with ATM, 
was a leading figure in the library 

or use our ATM in the Hesburgh Library.
profession in the first quarter of the 20th century. It is among those 

Internet Banking• With 1st Source Bank's on-line
announced at the President's faculty dinner in May. Previous winners, 

banking service for students, BankOnCampus.com, 
beginning with the first award in 1991, 

you can check your balances, transfer money
include Maureen Glea<;on, Robert 

between accounts, and even pay bills.
Havlik, Joseph Huebner, Rafael Tarrago, Janis Johnston, Charlotte 

Electronic Funds Transfer • Expecting money from
Ames, Dwight King, Jr., Stephen Hayes, Katharina Blackstead, and 

home? 1st Source can make getting money from 
Margaret Porter. 

home fast and easy by arranging to have the money transfered to you electronically.
All members of the University Libraries' and Law Library faculty with two or more years' service are 

When it comes to banking, 1st Source has you covered. 
eligible. Professor Philip Quinn, 

So save your prayers for a real crisis -like finals! 
Philosophy, will chair this year's committee. Please send letters of nomination to the Reverend Paul J. Foik Award Committee, c/o Melodie Eiteljorge, 221 Hesburgh Library, by 

Saint Mary's Banking Center• 235-2019 
March 9. Such letters should include 

M-Th • 10:00 to 4:00 F • 10:00 to 4:30
reasons for considering the nominee for this award. 

Wednesday, January 24, 200 I 
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Bush pushes education blueprint 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

President Bush is seeking con­sensus on a multibillion-dollar blueprint to help schools that fall behind. His supporters give him high marks, while skep­tics of vouchers and testing say he has more home­work to do. 
"When I 

Bush

hear the w o r d 'vouchers.' I get scared and wonder how much they're going to take away from us," said Dave Oland, a social studies teacher at Wyandotte High School in Kansas City. Kan., which has been on the path to better performance for three years. "We improved because we put the resources into it." 
On Tuesday, Bush fleshed out his campaign promises of improved schools with a pack­age of reading programs, after­school care, teacher training, student testing requirements and famng-school remedies. 
Eager to get something done on education this year, Democrats quickly signed _on to most of those ideas, but pro­nounced vouchers as a deal breaker. 
Bush avoided using the term "voucher," saying the federal funds taken from schools that fail three years in a row would be diverted to other choices for students trapped in bad schools. 
To woo Democrats, Bush expanded the cost of his pack­age by an undisclosed amount of extra money to schools that fail in two consecutive years. 
But most of the lawmakers 
SUMMER .... I 

who ultimately would vote on the plan rejected those over­tures. 
Rep. Bob Etheridge, D-N.C., called vouchers "dead on arrival as far as I am concerned." 
Sen. Patty Murray, D-Wash., also vowed to fight Bush on vouchers. "Private schools aren't going to take the hardest­to-teach kids," she said. "It will just be an out for the kids who can afford it." 
Even if Bush returns with another plan that limits the number of participating chil­dren, simply introducing the proposal was enough for con­servatives seeking to have a 
White House champion. 
"We must have this debate," said House Majority Leader Dick Armey, R-Texas. "The American people must hear both sides of this issue, not just the defenders of the status quo." 
Armey's plan to give vouchers to District of Columbia 
"When I hear the wrod 
students was would use a vetoed by 'vouchers, ·I get scared national sam• President piing test as a
and wonder how much 
Clinton in barometer for
they're going to take
1 9 9 7 . results from the Roughly away from us... states' own test 20,000 chil­scores. dren attend Many teach­
Dave Oland

private ers see exces­schools with Kansas City social sive testing as a publicly studies teacher threat to stu­
~0,f/2:J f£fj'Jfal :Day an~:l~=~~;:::,:;:lable!li 
/NTERNSHJPS!!i! I Work in the Chicago-area!! I 
Clarke Mosquito Control is the world's largest privately owned mosquito control services and products company, and has been the industry leader for more than fifty years, The last five years have been a period of explosive growth and expans10n as we lead the effort to control the spread of West Nile Virus and other mosquito-borne illnesses. Clarke's mission is effective control of nuisance a~ disease-vectoring mosquitoes through utilization of an environmentally friendly Integrated Pest Management program_ Our goal is to consistently provide a strong learning environment for our employees and interns, 
We_ offer a wid~ variety of summer jobs and paid internships in biology, environmental saences, life sciences, and related fields, We have field lab and office positions available Must be 18 + years old, have a valid driver'~ li~nse, and have an excellent driving record, 
For more information, stop and see us at the Internship Fair on January 25th! 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 

Clark Mosquito Control -Environmental Services Division 

159 N_ Garden Ave, I PO Box 72197 Roselle, IL 60172 (BOO) 323 5727 (outside IL}/ (800) 942-2555 (inside IL) humanresources@clarkemosquito, com www. clarkemosquito,com 
Summer Positions Available: 

Notre Dame Athletic Department Sports Camp Office 40 Hours/Week Please Call: 631-8788 


funded vouchers in five small programs in Maine. Vermont, Florida, Ohio and Wisconsin. 
Some educators applauded Bush's proposal. 
Ken Johnson, vice president of the Milwaukee school board said that before there wa~ school choice in his city, "the only way out was for ~ealthy parents." 
"We don't own the children," 
$9 -11 / hour!! I 
he added. "Their parents own us. It's a matter of seeing par­ents as customers." 
B'ut Bush's announcement left a number of questions unan­swered: Would private schools have to accept special-needs youngsters; could children take their vouchers out of state; and what would happen to crowded school districts hit with an influx of students from a recently failed school? 
Under a current federal pro­gram, the states have deemed 8,000 of their schools as failing and thus eligible for school­improvement funds. 
Bush aides had no estimate for how many schools could end up in his program, adding that states would set the standards and be the judges of how a school fared. They would, how­ever, have to test children in grades 3 through 8 in reading and math. 
The Education 
Department 
dents. 

"They just don't give the whole picture," said Fred Albert, a sixth-grade math teacher in Belle, W.Va. He said a single test score last spring could have finished one of his most promising pupils. 
The student, who expertly solved word problems just days before, sat through a standard­ized test in a panic over finish­ing 40 equations in 50 minutes, Albert said. 
Late NightOlympics 
Powell: 'we need to do better' with State Dept. 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Colin Powell had a sympathet­ic ear when he said "we need to do better" staffing the State Department and taking care of its facilities abroad. 
Career diplomats are con­cerned about the dilapidated conditions of embassies overseas and the perception that some ambassadors "are little more than errand boys for Washington." The union that represents them says more and more diplomatic jobs are going to career civil servants. 
The Foreign Service is beset with morale problems, but Powell is looking to turn that around. 
''I'm going be asking many of you to come up and tell me directly what you think," Powell said Monday, his first workday as secretary of state. "I want to make things move faster, cut through things more quickly.... You are the experts. I want to hear from you as directly as I can, with minimum number of layers in between." 
The initial reaction among Foreign Service workers was positive. 
John Naland, a vice president with the American Foreign Service Association, said the union enthusiastically endorses Powell's pledge "to bring more resources and better manage­ment" to the Department of State. 
"That is exactly what is need­ed to make the department a more effective agent of U.S. international leadership," he said. 
In Powell's confirmation hear-

Come to Late Night Olympics on Friday, January 26, and take part in the OPEN SKATE event which is scheduled from 1 0:00pm-Midnight. 
ing last week, the former chair­man of the Joint Chiefs of Staff drew a comparison between U.S. embassies in the Balkans and an upscale military camp for U.S. Gls in Kosovo. "If you visited some of the dilapidated embassies and other facilities in the region, you would wonder whether the same government was taking care of them," he said. "That's not right." 
"And if we want them to do the people's work, then we must give them the resources they need to do it," he said. 
Still, Myles Frechette, a retired former ambassador to Cameroon (1983-87) and Colombia {1994-97) believes the halcyon days of the Foreign Service may be over. 
"The superb communications we have today have been used by the Department to microman­age," Frechette said. 
"The ambassadors are little more than errand boys for Washington. They are told how to say everything. The people who are sending instructions are really mediocre. There is hardly ever any reward for courage. And what has happened over many secretaries of state has been a gradual erosion of the sense of uniqueness of the Foreign Service and what it could do." · 

AFSA, the union that repre­sents the career diplomats, com­plains that more and more jobs are going to career civil servants at the expense of the Foreign Service. During Madeleine Albright's tenure at State, there was a widespread perception that she relied on a tight inner circle of advisers, ignoring in large measure the Foreign Service. 

Skate 
$_ ~ 
~~ 

No advance sign-ups necessary. $1.00 Donation at the Door. The cost of the skate rental is $2. All rental fees will be donated to Specail Olympics. 
Friday, January 26, 2001 • 7:00 pm -4:00 am Joyce Center • 631-6100 All LNO Medals Were Donated by the Notre Dame Alumni Association Posters Donated by Express Press 
f"/ii= · 
\ ~,.., '~: " 
-~ ~:.
.,,,. 


O
THE page 10 BSERVER Wednesday, January 24, 200 I 
THE OBSERVER 

P.O. Box Q, Nocre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Tim Lane 
NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Mattingly VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smith ScENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARv'S EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: Elizabeth Lang 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CoNTROLLER: Bob Woods GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us OmcE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFJCE........................................ 631-5313 NEWS.......................................................... 631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VJEWPOJNT.................................................631-5303 observer .viewpoinc. l@nd.edu 
SPORTS........................................................631-4543 
observer.sporcs. l@nd.edu 
ScfNE......................................................... 631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARv's............................................. 631-4324 
observer.srnc. l@nd.edu 
PHOT0 ........................................................ 631-8767 SYSTEMs/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://obsero<r.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
onlinc features for spe­
and rates ofprint ads 
cial campus cov-:rage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
staff
August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Obsm,n-policm shoul.d bt direct­ed to Editor in Chief M iltt Connolly. 


Bush must confront darker issues 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 
It is the newly formed president's duty, as well as ours, to extend the his­tory of American promise into another chapter of American greatness. Inaugural addresses are calls to arms in this titanic strug­gle and in his, ChristopherGeorge W. Bush 
Kirchhoff 

declared that "in the quiet of American con­Harvard science we know Crimson that deep, persis­tent poverty is unworthy of our nation's promise." He talked too of a need to agree that "chil­dren at risk are not at fault" and that prisons, now growing faster than ever, are no substitute for hope and order for our souls. 
Persistent poverty, children at risk and prisons all came to play in the heinous crimes that occurred during the week of the election that ultimately placed Bush in the White House. 
First, 25 youths ranging in age from 12 to 27 gang-raped a 13-year-old mentally disabled girl in Georgia. The assaults, which took place more than six hours following a high school foot­ball game in an impoverished Atlanta neighborhood, happened in two aban­doned apartments in the same complex and were videotaped by participants. 
On the same day that police drew blood from suspects in the Atlanta rapes for DNA tests, news emerged of a similar gang rape in Berkeley, Calif., involving a mentally disabled 12-year­old girl and boys aged 11 to 16. The girl was held down by the boys, who raped her in ~ 1 different locations over the course of an afternoon. 
The sheer horror of these crimes was eclipsed only by the media's failure to report them widely. Caught up in the election and its aftermath, few reporters commented on the heinous nature of the crimes or related the crimes to either candidate's domestic policy platform. 
Had they occurred a week earlier in the election cycle. the people might have placed a higher priority on the social services each candidate pledged to fight for, Bush might not have been elected the 43rd President of the United States and the inaugural address he gave last Saturday might have been given by Al Gore instead. 
In that case, the loudest applause given by the crowd gathered at the Mall might not have been in response to a call for tax cuts, a policy hailed that morning in The New York Times by William F. Buckley, Jr. as the most morally pressing matter Bush can attend to at the outset of his presiden­cy. "He must avoid the endless argu­ment about whom to benefit, whom to deprive," Buckley said and instead end "the moral problem in the govern­ment's withdrawing from the taxpay­ers' pockets more than is required." 
In the context of the rapes which occurred in early November and the high rates of violent crime of which they are part, Bush's emphasis on tax cuts seems ill-fitted to our nation's needs and Buckley's pronouncement, which trumpeted them as the foremost moral priority, perverse. 
The challenge of our times may not be as acute as racial segregation or the threat of Nazi tyranny, to which Bush alluded in his address, but the subtle effects of economic inequality and the breakdown of the American family have equally profound consequences. 
According to the National Office for Juvenile Justice, each high school dropout who turns to a life of crime and drugs costs society $2.2 to $3 million, which, in a society that values value, should move us to pay for social ser­vices now rather than later. 
Into this mess comes the relative inexperience of Bush, whose Vice President voted against Head Start and among whose first official acts was to declare Sunday a national day of prayer and thanksgiving. 
Asking Americans to "bow their heads in humility before our heavenly Father" as well as making eight explic­itly religious references during his 14­minute inaugural speech worries those who know it will take a lot more than prayer to solve our social problems. 
Bush's inaugural rendition of the time-honored slogans of our democra­cy, of living in a "new world that became a friend and liberator of the old" and "a slave-holding society that became a servant of freedom," do not match the age in which we live so much as his other comments on the persis­tence of poverty, at-risk children and prisons. 
While triumph is part of our history, so too is the economic and social condi­tions that fostered the brutal gang rape of two mentally retarded children. 
Keeping this in mind helps explain why the pageantry of democracy sur­rounding Bush's address did not assuage the unease felt by many at entrusting the fate of our nation to an executive who prefers short work days and whose background does not seem to include involvement with the issues he is now charged to address. And while his inaugural may not have fully come to terms with the darker side of America, we can only hope his presi­dency will. 
This column first appeared in the Harvard University newspaper, the Harvard Crimson, on January 22, 2001 and is reprinted here courtesy ofU­WIRE. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
DILBERT 

EDISCOUNT BROKERAGE 
0 
.; 
~ 

TRUE OR 
.:
0 
0• 
i
FALSE: YOU'REYOU CAN ONL'f 
•
e 

'ii" 

MONEY 
IN.
OPEN AN ACCOUNT 
"0••IF YOU MEET MY 

EVAPORATES
g 
•0 

BECAUSE OF PHOTO­
STRINGENT 
E 
0 

SYNTHESIS.
0 
t: 
CL> 
)
.c 
"O 
I 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"While there is a lower class, I am in it; while there is a criminal element, I am ofit; while there is a soul in prison, I am not free." 
Eugene V. Debs socialist 

O
THE Wednesday, January 24, 200 I BSERVER page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Justifying Revue's location 
Each year the approach of either way, though it was The purpose of the survey Keenan Revue is signaled by decided that BP was still fat or this letter is not to stir up an escalation in the unending and Farley still smokes. any more controversy but to debate amongst the Saint So to determine how Saint inform the students of Saint Mary's student body as to Mary's really felt about the Mary's as well as we here at whether or not our show Revue being on their campus, the Revue of how SMC views should be performed on their Chris and I, under the watch­holding the Revue on their campus. And just as this year ful eyes of Saint Mary's stu­campus. We sincerely hope marks the Revue's 25th dent body President and Vice that relations between anniversary it is also the 21st President Crissie Renner and Keenan Hall and the SMC year that we have performed Michele Nagel, handed out powers that be can be at O'Laughlin Auditorium. surveys to 235 SMC students improved and that this letter This year, however, has seen (approximately 1/6 of the demonstrates our willingness an apparent increase in stu­population) as they walked to continue to spread tidings dent objection to having the into the dining hall. This is of love and sarcasm to ND Revue on the SMC campus. what they responded: and SMC students alike from 
In an effort to better under­218 of the 235 students (93 O'Laughlin Auditorium every stand this phenomenon, Chris percent) responded that they February for years to come. Martin, this year's Revue pro­approve of having the Revue Incidentally the Revue is ducer and I appeared in front on campus. the 1st, 2nd and 3rd of of the Saint Mary's BOG so Of the 17 students who February. Tickets go on sale that we might convince them were opposed to having the at Saint Mary's on to buy an ad in our hilarious Revue at SMC, eight had seen Wednesday the 25th and at program. And in addition, we the show. Five of these eight the JACC on the 26th for the agreed to entertain any ques­said that their experience amazing price of free. tions the BOG had about our was entertaining and would show. see the show again. Grant Gholson 
While we found the dia­Three students had seen . Keenan Revue Direccor logue-to be stimulating, it was the show, did not find it junior apparent that there were entertaining, would not see it January 22, 200 I some opinions which were again and did not approve of not going to be changed SMC hosting the event. 

CSC strives to build community 
Consider this example. Imagine walking into your classroom today and seeing half of the students missing. not to return. Imagine returning to your residence hall or apartment building this evening to visit with friends and realizing that your neighbors have moved away without the opportunity to say goodbye. Imagine returning home for break to find neighbors, friends and family members gone. I share this example in hopes that we might begin to Jessica understand what it means to lose a community. The 
McManus 

example seems nonsensical in this setting. Though marked with diversity of experience, it is almost Fora More certain that the majority of students and faculty feel 
Just and 

a sense of "place" on our campuses. 
Humane World
I witnessed this phenomenon of community disso­lution last year as I worked with high school aged children, residents of the Robert Taylor Homes public housing communi­ty in Chicago, Ill. and their families, community leaders and teachers. As many of you may know or have studied, the public housing program in Chicago has been a marked failure. For Robert Taylor, the largest public housing development in the nation, this failure culminated last year in the decision to demolish the buildings and relocate its residents. 
Time and space prevents thorough discussion of motivations for and logistics of this decision; my focus here is the reality that "community" is fragile and can not be taken for granted. Teachers shared with me their young students' pain and frustration felt upon coming to class to see friends and neighbors transferred away. Families, many with several generations living within the development. were no longer neighbors. 
What did this transition mean for this community? Turbulence, incon­sistency and distrust, to start. All of these are disastrous to children and families, particularly those whose lives have been marked with struggle. The organization at which I worked, Chicago Area Project, recognized this and attempted to address it. The youth of the community enrolled in our program, a program that moved beyond recreation or tutoring or other typical youth activities and encompassed community-building. Our program involved the youth of the housing development in designing and implementing community-service projects. What a wonderful concept! 
So-called "at-risk" youth, who typically exist on the receiving end of service projects, designed and led their own volunteer projects for their families and neighbors -fostering leadership and pride in their commu­nity and building where others have torn down. And despite what you may have seen on your evening news, there exist many youth right here in the South Bend community embarking o_n such endeavors in their challenged neighborhoods. Working with them has brought me tremen­dous joy and hope. 
I share this experience to ask that this new year brings us all to fill the essential role of community builders. Working with several social service organizations in South Bend and Chicago, I have seen and felt the reality that community can be transient and fragmented, but that it can also be strong and sustaining -particularly in those communities that are often ignored or misjudged. 
I witnessed many students in the course I teach on Business Ethics, a course that involves undergraduate business students performing volun­teer service at sites throughout the area, amazed and transformed by what they saw in their volunteering. So many of them expressed amaze­ment in themselves and their tremendous abilities to serve and the remarkable abilities of many in these communities that often are described unfairly as only "poor" or "at-risk." My students saw so much more; I am certain that many will continue their commitment long after the course is complete. 
We've all heard about the "global community." If we acknowledge the reality that communities across the world are increasingly interacting and symbiotic, we must realize the fundamental need for strong and capable community units. We must recognize that community functions only to the extent that its members participate -community is some­thing that must be built and. when it exists, must be nourished. Community depends on the sustenance of its members and is crucial to the economic and social future of groups of people. 
Our Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, Holy Cross and South Bend communi­ties comprise one such unit. Moving beyond our University borders in partnership with surrounding communities is an invaluable and incom­parable contribution to education and development. I hope that we as faculty and students can be touched by such experiences. This Thursday, from 7-9 p.m., the Center for Social Concerns will hotd its annual "Social Concerns Festival." This is a tremendous occasion to meet with commu­nity agency and student service and social action group representatives to discuss available volunteer opportunities. I invite everyone to attend the festival. I strongly encourage us all to continue or embark on a volun­teer experience, thereby filling that fundamental role of community­builders. 
Jessica L. AfcManus. M.A .• is the Assistant Program Director ofthe Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business, and a member ofthe Mendoza College ofBusiness faculty. She also serves as the Community-Based Learning Coordinator between the College of Business and the Center for Social Concerns. The CSC's column runs every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
I 
d 
. :' 


As most students already know, Saint Mary's College has canceled a play called "The Vagina Monologues." This is somewhat ironic, considering that Notre Dame and SMC administrators seem to speak only in monologues. 
Did SMC administrators gather student opinions before canceling this play? Did they have an open forum before making a final decision? It seems they simply issued a decree and considered that the end of any conversation. 
This should not surprise students of either college. 
In the same issue of The Observer philoso• phy professor Ed Manier was quoted, "How can any of us (CLC) hope to accomplish real change in an environment where student life administrators dictate what we can and can­not do?" 
There is simply a pattern of denying dis­cussion on certain issues either school deems inappropriate. 
If SMC is paying for sets, costumes or stage help then they do have the right to cancel this play since it is the College's money. 

Ifnot then they are simply denying the students of SMC intellectual freedom, which is a far greater disgrace than a sexually ori­ented play. 
Ifpeople feel strongly against the play' s message, then they should be able to protest outside the entrance to it. That is how groups and ideas are heard. Not through an imperial decree, but through open conversa­tion and, yes, confrontation. 
We may learn many things while we attend college. But in the end, if we haven't learned to engage ideas that may contradict our beliefs, learned to face those who chal­lenge our way of thinking and learned how to interact in a world of diverse views and backgrounds then we haven't learned the only lesson that matters. We can only hope both schools' administrations recognize this. 
Kevin Suhanic 
Morrissey Manor freshman January 23, 200 l 


T E L 
I 0 N
eene 
page 12 
Wednesday, January 24, 2001 

Back to reality pop culture 1 
Exotic settings and heated competition push "Temptation Island," "Survivor: Australia" ahead of ABC's "The Mole" 

Sleigh bells' ring tarnished by stresses of school 
By MATT KILLEN 

Scene Writer 
The summer of 2000 brought a new genre to American television known as "reality TV." The success of "Survivor" and, to a lesser extent, "Big Brother" opened the flood gates for a wave of new reality shows. 
Networks scrambled to emulate the success of CBS's reality summer, and the results are finally debuting on the small screen. 
The first reality show of the new year is ABC's "The Mole" {airing Tuesdays at 8 p.m.). Ten players have been selected to travel the world and 
accomplish tasks. For every com­the castaways aren't really cast away any­pleted challenge, more money is where. The show takes place in the added to the growing pot. Australian Outback. 
However, one of the ten is Feeding off the success of the a mole -hence the title -original, the show promises larg­who is working against er production values and more the team to sabotage the exciting challenges. challenges. Predictably, this cast is much 
Members of the team more attractive than the origi­are eliminated (or as the nal's band of sixteen. show says, executed) every Unlike the first "Survivor." each so often when they take a quiz player is entering the outback with about the characteristics of the strategies and alliances mapped out. mole. This should make for much in the way of 
The person who scores the lowest is Photo courtesy 01 cbs-com drama and diabolical Richard-esque dealings. 
then eliminated from the show. Whoever discovers the mole gets the cash. 
While "The Mole" lacks the endurance aspect of "Survivor," as the team has been staying in luxurious European hotels, the concept plays out surprisingly well. The method of eliminating people has a reason to it -whoever knows the least about the mole is kicked off. 
Beyond that, this show won't generate the buzz that surrounded "Survivor." In fact, "The Mole" is already being drowned out by the anticipation of "Survivor 2." 
In its now patented shameless and sleazy style ­remember Darva Conger? -Fox's entry into the reality craze is a show called "Temptation Island" (airing Wednesdays at 9 p.m.). 
In this show, four "committed couples" -not engaged or married -agree to spend time on a remote island with twenty or so single persons. The men are put in a camp with the single women, and the women are put in a separate resort with the single men. 
Let the temptation begin. In what could only be described as a twisted crossover of "Survivor" and "The Real World," "Temptation Island" tests the couples' relationships by isolating themselves from each other 
and bombarding them both with the opportunity to cheat. 
Unlike "The Mole," this show has had no trouble attracting buzz and controversy. Many groups across the nation condemn the show's trashy premise, which simply causes more people to watch it. 
The problem with "Temptation Island" isn"t that it is immoral or too racy -it's just not very good. The show is incoherent, as there is no rhyme or reason to the way the show plays out. Beyond that, it is set up like a game, similar to "Survivor," but there's no real goal or ending. 
The hit summer show "Survivor" returns to CBS this 
Sunday after the Super Bowl. In this go-round. 
CBS has a lot of confidence in the show. as it is putting it up against NBC mainstay "Friends" on 
Hollywood and halt the start of the 2001­Thursday nights. 
2002 season, networks have been busy
"The Mole,, 
Surprisingly, NBC is already 
buying up reality ideas from around the feeling the heat. 
world. For the month of 
1uesdays, 8 p.m., ABC 
Since reality television shows tend to February. the network has 
require no writers or actors, this would decided to boot Steven 
be the perfect solution to fill the vacuum
"Temptation Island,,
Weber's "The Weber Show," 
of the fall season. which airs after "Friends," 
Wednesdays, 9 p.m., 
CBS has already ordered up "Survivor and to extend "Friends" by 
3" and "Survivor 4," with possible loca-
FOX
ten minutes. 

tions in Africa and South America. The rest of the hour will 
There's also rumors of a possible "Big be filled by "Saturday Night 
Brother 2." Many other networks have
"Survivor: the
. Live" skits. 

shows in the m0aking as well. NBC made this change in 
Of course, the true survivor is the reali­hopes of preventing people 
Australian Outback,, 
ty show that withstands the ultimate trib­
Thursdays, 8 p.m., CBS
from switching over to CBS 
al council: the Neilsen ratings. Despite after "Friends" for the sec­
the desire and possible necessity for real­
ond half of "Survivor." ity TV. the low-rated shows will quickly 
which is typically when a member is voted off the show fall off the radar. And if the fickle and merciless 
at tribal council. American public grows tired of reality TV. the genre 
How long this new wave of reality TV will last is any-will be voted off and replaced with the next great thing. 
one's guess. When "Who Wants to Be a Millionaire" debuted in 1999 to huge ratings, a wave of primetime game shows hit the air. like "Winning Lines," "Twentyone" and "Greed." 
Yet  the  only  
show  still  
around  is  

"Millionaire." 

Perhaps the reality TV craze will go the way of the game shows -which in a way is a derivative of reality TV ­leaving only an original like "Survivor" behind. Or perhaps not. With the looming writers' and actors' 
strikes threatening to paralyze 
Sleigh bells ring -were you listening? Probably not. 
With the rotten weather, frenzied exam schedule, packing. pulling anything remotely electrical out of the wall and praying to everything holy that you make your connecting flights, the holiday spirit was lost on most students this season. 
Not that we didn't try. We hung lights, downloaded Christmas carols both new (*NSYNC) and old (Bing Crosby} and dreamed about going home to friends that love us and families that miss us. 
Gifts were exchanged, mistletoe was hung and we sat through Jim Carrey's efforts at "The Grinch." But overall the Christmas spirit was pushed to the back of our minds. We had more important things to think about. 
As much as retailers would like for us to think it. the world doesn't stop for Christmas. Instead of sugarplums dancing 'round in our heads, we had papers, deadlines, pro­jects and exams filling our minds with facts, dates and formulas. 
Christmas became more of a hassle than anything else. Buying presents, facing the crowded, sweltering malls, writing thank you notes -we were ready for Christmas to be over before it began. We even had trouble enjoying Thanksgiving dinner with the thought of finals looming in the not so far-off future. 


Did I avoid this holiday mess? Did I see Mommy kiss­ing Santa Claus? Was I doing the Jingle Bell Rock? Hardly. Let's face it. I was into the Christmas spirit about as much as Ebeneezer Scrooge. 
There must be a better way. I love Christmas. There was a point in my life when it really was "The Most Wonderful Time of the Year." I've lost that. In fact, my primary goal this season was to get from the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade to Dick Clark's "Rockin' New Year's Eve" in one piece. 
\Veil, I made it. Am I better for the endurance? Am I running my proverbial victory lap around the wilting Christmas tree in my living room? No. I spent so much time trying to cut corners and avoid the holidays that I missed out on the fun. · 
I spent one excruciating day at the mall, determined to buy every single one of my Christmas presents, in order to save time and another trip out in the cold. Sure, I did it, and I checked that item off of my to-do list. but it took all of the fun out of shopping. 
I then made sure that I spent a certain amount of time with my friends and family, planning holiday out­ings and the obligational let's-catch-up-on-the-latest­gossip lunches. 
However, I was so busy making sure that I saw everyone that l didn't have time to really enjoy being with my friends. 
My point is this: we need to slow down. We spend so much of our time trying to see and do everything that we don't enjoy anything during the holidays. 
As students, we have the wonderful opportunity to spend a special time with people we love -both at school and at home. 
Sure. finals leave us all snappish, tearful and exhausted. However, we can take a few minutes out of our day to sooth our coffee-riddled body with half an hour to eat lunch with friends, have a gift exchange, play Nintendo 64 or just take a break. 
We (and I include myself here) need to remember that although school is invariably important and time is precious, it's the people in our lives that are the most important, especially around the holidays. 
So next time Christmas rolls around, take a minute to deck the halls and listen for the sleigh bells -they'll surely be ringing. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
T E L 


I 0 N
eene 
Wednesday, January 24, 2001 
page 13 


rules in television's new wave 

Photo courtesy of cbs.com 

The Australian Outback" prepare to depart for the rugged uel will premiere Jan. 28 after the Super Bowl. 
The girls of "Popstars" take on the O-Town boys from "Making the Band" 
By KATIE MALMQUIST 
Scene Writer 
In an age of pop super-stardom and reality-based TV, network television's recent attempts to cash in on both phenomena should not come as a surprise. 
ABC's "Making the Band," whose first season kicked off last spring, and the WB's "Popstars," which premiered Jan. 12, take full advantage of these two pop-culture fascinations. Both shows combine teeny bopper obsession with a growing interest in reality television shows to produce what has thus far proved to be a marketing paradise. 
Picture Britney Spears goes to "Survivor" Island -or better yet, "Temptation Island" -complete with broken nails, broken hearts, and lots of con­flict juicy enough for prime time television. 
Of course, the American market for this kind of synthesis is not as young as many think. Made-for-TV bands like the Monkees have been 

around since the 1960's, and MTV's "Real World" 
series launched the reality trend nearly ten years 
ago. 

With the recent success of 0-Town, the five man group created for the series "Making the Band," the possibility of reaching Monkee-Mania heights could be a reality -a scary one for groups like Backstreet Boys and *NSYNC who spend a great deal of time contesting accusations of this exact kind of "boy-band" manufacturing. 
Luckily for the boys of 0-Town, America's teen pop audience doesn't seem to mind as much as the critics. 
In fact, the boys' pretty faces have landed them multiple appearances on MTV's "Total Request Live," not to mention copious air time for their lat­est single, "Liquid Dreams," the title track off their debut album. 
But the road to stardom is a bumpy one, and in this case, each twist and turn was broadcast over national television for an audience as hungry for the real experience of pop music (if only seen once a week through their TV screens) as they are for the poster boys it produces. 
In fact, ABC saw high enough ratings for "Making the Band," which aired for 22 episodes in its first season, that the network has already placed an order for 13 more to run next season. 
Headed by Trans Continental Record executive Lou Pearlman, the unctuous force responsible for discovering groups like *NSYNC, Backstreet Boys and LFO, "Making the Band" chronicled the groom­ing of nearly a thousand hopefuls from which five talents were ultimately chosen for the quintet of 0-. Town. 
Of the many who auditioned, 25 were flown to Orlando, FL (the city from which the group borrows its title) where eight were selected to be trained in the art of super-stardom. 
The majority of the series exploited the various sacrifices, heartaches and joys they experienced during the final selection process. Perhaps the most dramatic story­
line was the 
following all the rules of pop along the way ­
plight of the 
abundant merchandising, lots of glitter and a
"'Making the Band,,
ever-problematic 
visit or two to MTV studios for appearances
neglected girl­
on "TRL," today's ultimate pop music meter.
(starting its second
friends (but teen 
But will all this careful marketing be enough
heartthrobs 
to launch the girls of "Popstars" and 0-Town
season next year on
aren't supposed to have girl­
ABC)

friends anyway, are they?). In the end, we 
''Popstars,,

have 0-Town: 
J a c o b 
Fridays, 8:30 p.m.,
Underwood, Trevor Penick, 
WB

Dan Miller, Erik­Michael Estrada, and Ashley Angel -five guys who smile arguably better than they sing. 
They are not the first guinea pigs of music indus­try mass production, arid in light of the WB's latest series, "Popstars," it is quite clear that they won't be the last. 
Besides crossing the gender line drawn by "Making the Band" and losing the creepy presence of Pearlman. "Popstars" is excruciatingly similar to the ABC series. Even their final product, an all-girl quintet comparable to Destiny's Child or Dream, promises to be 0-Town's female shadow. 
Basing the show on an Australian series by the same name, the producers of "Popstars" are bank­ing that their female ensemble will be as big in America as it was overseas, where the resulting group, Bardot, scored a number one hit single and album. 
With the American premiere, which aired during network prime time Jan. 12 and drew some of the WB's highest ratings to date for that time slot, the future of "Popstars"' 13 week run (currently airing Fridays at 8:30 p.m.) certainly looks as bright as the stars it promises to create. 
Like "Making the Band," "Popstars" chronicles a nationwide talent search with stops in Atlanta, Miami. New York, Dallas, Chicago and Los Angeles. Those auditioning must be 18 years or older and must perform one of five selected songs a cappella. 
This straegy makes it easier for the judges (a record executive, a group manager and a choreog raphcr} but becomes slightly redundant for the viewers, who may get tired of hearing Whitney 
Photo courtesy ot popstarsusa.com 

Singers and dancers from across the country wait anxiously for their turn to audition for the WB's new show "Popstars." 
Houston-esque renditions of "I Will Always Love You" from six different girls in strikingly similar halter tops and glitter eye-shadow. 
In the end, again in 0-Town fashion, five lucky girls will get their break, moving to a posh house in 
L.A. where they will rehearse and record a debut album before launching a national tour, 
into the realm of celebrity musicians like Britney Spears and *NSYNC, who have set standards for record and touring sales over the past year? 
Most think (or hope) not -mainly because of the inevitable backlash against this kind of mass production of pop groups and what it means to those who genuinely struggle for authenticity and originality in the music busi­ness. 
The continual growth of America's pop mar­
ket and the recent overseas popularity of groups like Bardot give O~Town and their female counterparts hope. After all, the likes of Backstreet and *NSYNC hit it bJg overseas before even being introduced in the US, a promising trend for produc­ers who aim to create that kind of star power. 
Still the question remains, a.r:e television produc­ers capable this type of magic trick? Only time, record sales and Billboard reports will tell. 
Looking to write? 
Scene needs writers and reviewers. Call 1-4540 ore-mail scene. 1@nd.edu 
page 14 

The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, January 24, 2001 
NBA 

Howard pulls off last-minute shot for Washington win 
Asso,iated Press 
Juwan Howard hit a baseline turnaround jumper with 1.8 sec­onds remaining to give the Washington Wizards a 97-95 vic­tory over the Charlotte Hornets on Tuesday night. 
Howard took the pass from Felipe Lopez, who was playing as the fourth-string point guard after Richard Hamilton fouled out. Rod Strickland and Chris Whitney didn't play because of injuries. 
Howard had 22 points and Hamilton had 20 points and six assists for the Wizards, who have won two in a row for only the second time this season. David Wesley scored 25 and Jamal Mashburn added 20 for the Hornets, who have lost five straight and 11 of 14. 
The win was the first of the season for the Wizards with president of basketball opera­tions Michael Jordan in atten­dance. They had been 0-6 with Jordan in the building. 
Mashburn tied the game at 95 with a layup with 15.5 seconds remaining for the Hornets, who had trailed the entire fourth quarter. After Howard's bucket, Elden Campbell took a jump shot at the buzzer, but Calvin Booth was guarding him closely and the shot hit the top of the backboard. 
Hamilton got his first NBA start at point guard because Whitney's ankles finally needed a rest. Whitney, who has limped through stretches over the last few weeks, sprained both ankles in Sunday's victory over Atlanta. 
The Wizards' only other point guard, Strickland, missed his 14th straight game with what is officially listed as left shoulder tendinitis. Strickland hasn't played since complaining about his playing time after a game Dec. 27, and has since been sus­pended for missing a road trip and being charged with drunken driving. 
Hamilton, who has looked out of place at times when asked to play point in the past, was aggressive against the Hornets and caught a break early on when Charlotte's Baron Davis had to sit with two quick fouls. 

There were 11 lead changes and 11 ties through the first three quarters, and neither team led by more than seven. The Wizards began the final period ahead 77-72, and kept the Hornets at arm's length until Howard's short jumper capped 6-0 run that created a 91-83 cushion with 2:56 left. 
Hamilton fouled out with 1:51 to play, leaving Lopez to handle the point the rest of the way. Hamilton's foul came on a three­point play by Wesley that made the score 93-90. ­
The teams traded turnovers before Jahidi White made two free throws with 57 .5 seconds left. Wesley's 3-pointer made it 95-93 with 39.4 to go, and an offensive foul on Lopez gave Mashburn the chance to tie the game. 
Timberwolves 82, Suns 73 
Terrell Brandon scored 26 points to lead the Minnesota Timberwolves to their fourth straight victory, 82-73 over the Phoenix Suns on Tuesday night. 
The Suns, who trailed 57-52 going into the fourth quarter, tied the game at 67-67 on Rodney Rogers' 3-pointer with 
5:19 remammg. The Timberwolves took the lead for good, 72-71, on a jump shot by Brandon with 3:19 left. 
The loss was the Suns' third in a row without All-Star point guard Jason Kidd, who is skip­ping their six-game road trip to mend his relationship with his wife. Kidd was arrested last week on a misdemeanor assault charge accusing him of hitting her at their suburban Phoenix home. 
Phoenix also was without Tom Gugliotta, who missed his third consecutive game because of a family emergency, and Anfernee Hardaway, who is on the injured list because of a knee injury. 
The Timberwolves' Kevin Garnett had 14 points and 13 rebounds. 
The Suns were led by Shawn Marion, who had 14 points and 12 rebounds. 
Elliott Perry, who made his third start in place of Kidd after signing a 10-day contract last Wednesday, had 10 points in the first half but was scoreless in the second. 
The Timberwolves were outscored 14-2 in the final six minutes of the first quarter, which ended with the Suns lead­ing 21-13. That was the Wolves' fewest points in a first period this season. 
Celtics 83, Hawks 82 
Antoine Walker's deflection with five seconds left made up for his poor shooting as the Boston Celtics held on for an 83­82 win over the Atlanta Hawks on Tuesday night. 
Walker poked the ball from Jason Terry near midcourt and it went out of bounds off the Boston forward with 2.1 seconds remaining. That was only enough time for the Hawks to inbound the ball to Terry, who missed a long desperation jumper at the buzzer. 
The Hawks started the posses­sion with 21.1 seconds remain­ing, but Walker's defense ruined the play they were setting up and sent them to their fourth straight loss. 
Walker shot just 3-of-19 and finished with only 11 points, more than 11 below his average. Paul Pierce led Boston with 23 points and scored the winning basket with 1 :07 left. But he shot just 7-of-19. 
Pierce did score seven of the Celtics' last nine points as they capitalized on Terry's poor shooting. Atlanta's leading scorer had just eight points and shot 3­of-13. 

Boston won for the third time in five games as Randy Brown scored a season-high 16 points and Eric Williams added 13. 
The Hawks, who began the game with point guard Matt Maloney on the injured list, lost point guard Brevin Knight with a strained left groin with 3:32 left in the second quarter. 
The Hawks were led by Dion Glover with a season-high 15 points. Dikembe Mutombo had 12 points and 18 rebounds, and Lorenzen Wright added 13 points and 14 rebounds. 
The Observer ai;i;epts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. ar the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit
CLASSIFIEDS 

all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Moving Sale: Recliner -$25, 
table & chairs -$200, bkshett • $25, 
LOST AND FOUND 
computer desk -$65, 

entertainm't stand• $25, FOUND: phone stand -$10, Qn size mat-Watch at DeBartolo Hall. tress set w/frame -$200, Must identify to claim. armoire -$100, dresser. $150, 
night stand -$50. Call 243-5781, FOUND: Will deliver. Glasses at DeBartolo Hall. Must identify to claim. 
FOR RENT 
3-5 BEDROOM HOMES 
FOR SALE 
CLOSE TO CAMPUS All that you can't leave behind! 232-2595 Selling 2 U2 tickets for cost. mmrnrentals@aol.com Chicago, May 15 Leave message for Patrick HOUSES FOR RENT: 243-7753 1) 5-br $900/month. 

2) 4-br $1000/month. PHONE CARDS 3) 3-br $600/month. $20 -2601 min with .49 cent sur-We'll make almost any changes to charge the houses. Call Bill at 675-0776 or $20 -362 min with no surcharge HOUSE FOR LEASE 7/01 634-4210-SARA or 634-1146 CLAUDIA 4/5 BEDRM. 3 BLOCKS TO CAM­
PUS, 773-486-8822 Beautiful brass bed, queen size, with orthopedic mattress set and House for rent near ND. deluxe frame. All new, never used, 2 bedrooms. No pets. $525 plus still in plastic. $235. 219-862-208. deposit. 219-654-8157. 
Nice and large 2 bedroom apart• ment for rent. Close to campus in a quiet and safe area. Small pets ok. 313 North Frances. Not a driveby. Rent is $425 a month. Excludes utilities. Call 232-1242, Ask for John, 
NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND GOOD AREA 277-3097. 
IDEAL 3-4 BEDROOM HOUSE 2 BLOCKS EAST OF ND 277-3097 
All the good homes are not gone! We have 2, 4&5 bedroom houses five minutes from campus! Dave 291 ·2209 Macos@michiana.org 
WANTED 
Parents who are ND grads seek older female babysitter to care tor two girls ages 7 & 9, one or two weekend evenings & occationally weekends or evenings in our home. Must have own car. Call Judith and leave message: 287-0260. 
Great job opportunity: Care for adorable children 1 mom• ing a week. 254-9466 
Rock/Funk Band looking for Bass player. Interested? Call Jason at 4-1639, 
Advertising sales 

Are you a self starter eager to work for the most respected advertising company? Are you interested in a long lasting and rewarding career selling to business owners? You can easily start earning $40k/year + bonuses and perks and head up our new South Bend terri­tory. Please fax your resume and a brief letter telling us why you're the one. 
888-206-4054 

PET REFUGE, a no-kill animal shelter just 1 Omin. from campus, needs volunteers and fosters. Please call 256-0886 visit www.petrefuge.com and email us. 
Summer Jobs with gifted kids 
Northwestern University's Center for Talent Development is hiring residential counselors/fas, 
Experience w/kids pref. 
Room/board provided for counselors. Comp. Salary, great work experience 
6/24-8/12 + training. To apply, call (847)-467-7884 
/ 
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED 

The Early Childhood Development Center, located at Saint Mary's College and the University of Notre Dame, is looking for volunteers who enjoy young children. If you would be interested in spending 2 hours a week reading children's books, building with blocks, and singing songs with children, please call Kari Alford at 284-4693 (ECDC-SMC) or Debbie Hart at 631-3344 (ECDC­ND). Please join our fun-filled days. 
Has anyone seen my hot roommate named Kristin Krouse? We have a
PERSONAL 
new game, haha! 

Katie Metzi, don't forget our tues-WE MISS YOU, PATRICK thurs lunch dates! Mario is my 
Italian lover 

Good luck with your interviews next week Kate and Lauren! 
Hey Kelle, I bet you miss core 

Hey room 303 alumni, 242/3 pangbom is ready to take you down at taboo 
I am the most studios girl that you all know 
JUNIOR PARENT WEEKEND Have your parents stay in real "Irish 
Comfort" at more affordable prices than area hotels. Gourmet breakfast brunch included. 
Call The Wild Irish Rose Inn at 277-4303 or visit our site: www.irishrose.com 
-
Wednesday, January 24, 200 I page 15
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Going up. 
As you begin your ascent to the top, remember, it's what you learn along the way that counts. At Ernst & Young, you can have endless learning opportunities working with leading companies in FORTUNE. leading industries. So when you get to your destination. you'll belong there. Ride with us. 100 BEST 
COMPANIES§
TO WORK FOR CN 

ey.com/us/careers . al/f RNST& YOUNG 
FROM THOUGHT TO FINISH.TM 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, January 24, 200 I 

Being back to school already got you down? 
SUB will help get 
your mind off the 
books this weekend 
with Acoustic Cafe 
on Thursday night 
at 9pm in Lafortune, 
and of course movies, 
movies, movies! , 
Meet the Parents in 101 DeBartolo on Thursday, Friday and Saturd .. 
Catch the Yellow Submarine in 155 DeBartolo on Thursday eveni 
Come on over for The Wall this Friday night. 
And make sure you come see Tommy on Saturday night. 
Movie times Thursday 10:30 Friday 8:00 & 10:30 Saturday 8:00 & 10:30 
r ,• f 
NFL 

Browns talk with New Orleans' coach McCarthy 
defensive coordinator John Fox. Both 
Associated Press 

Fox and Baltimore defensive coordi­nator Marvin Lewis will be in 
CLEVELAND Cleveland for visits after the SuperThe Cleveland Browns interviewed 

Bowl. 
another NFL assistant for their head 

Browns spokesman Todd Stewart 
coaching job Tuesday and said they said Policy also hoped to give Browns 

wouldn't go back to college to find defensive coordinator Romeo Crennel their man. an interview. Crennel, who is popular New Orleans offensive coordinator with Browns players, is considered byMike McCarthy met with Browns some to be the frontrunner for the 
team president Carmen Policy and position. other team executives at the club's Policy said the Browns would focus training facility in suburban Berea. their search exclusively on NFL assis­
McCarthy, coming off his first sea­tants. There had been speculation son directing the Saints' offense, is they were quietly recruiting Miami's the second candidate to interview this Butch Davis, Oklahoma's Bob Stoops week with the Browns. On Monday, and Washington's Rick Neuheisel. Tennessee defensive coordinator Policy denied reports he had offered Gregg Williams met for three hours the job to Davis, who has agreed to, with Browns officials. but not yet signed, a contract exten­
The club will interview San sion with the Hurricanes. 
Francisco offensive coordinator Marty "Although there are several very Mornhinweg on Wednesday and is interesting and talented coaches at still trying to set up a meeting with the college level, we have made the Minnesota offensive line coach Mike decision to pursue prospects current­
ly with the National Football League," Tice later in the week. 
Mornhinweg was scheduled to Policy said through Stewart. 
The Browns have been seeking ainterview Tuesday with the Detroit coach since firing Chris Palmer thisLions. The Lions, Browns and Buffalo month. Palmer was dismissed afterBills are all without a head coach. 
leading the club to a 5-27 record inThe Browns also received permis­two seasons.
sion to talk with New York Giants 

Please Recycle The Observer. 
Follow your heart with, us. 

Sisters ofcharity 
of Cincinnati 
Come and See Weekend 
Fridayl Feb. 16 -Sundayl Feb. 18 Motherhouse1 Cincinnati, Ohio 
For more information contact: Sister Mary Bookser, (513} 347-5471, e-mail: smary.bookser@srcharitycinti.org, www.srcharitycinti.org 
-

Wednesday, January 24, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
SUPER BOWL XXXV 
Lewis focuses on football, leaves murder trial behind him 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. 

The session began with a wave of reporters and camera­men streaming onto the field at Raymond James Stadium, many making a beeline for the big guy at Station 7. 
"Ray Lewis is down there! Hurry up!" said Baltimore Ravens defensive tackle Tony Siragusa, directing the herd filing past him. 
And there he was. 

"The media has been focused on me the whole year," Lewis said. "It hasn't distracted me yet, so it won't right now." 
He was peppered with ques­tions by at least 200 people, twice the crowd gathered around any other player. The 
the department of film, television, and theatre 
presents 
notre 

ame 
~ 


festival 2001 
advanced tickets on sale at Lafortune .C«.rbiie they iaso 
friday • saturday • monday 
january 26 • 27 • 29 7:30 & 9:45pm 
snite museum of art $4.00 admission 
pack diminished only slightly after it was clear Lewis wouldn't discuss his ordeal of a year ago -a double-murder trial in Atlanta. 
"Please, let's talk about foot­ball," he said, shaking his head 
after  someone  asked  yet  
America's  Leader  
in  Student  Travel  

Spring Break 
HEADQUARTERS 
another question about the 
case. 
Lewis made a reference to 
his trial at the start of the 
hourlong session, looking 
directly at his questioners and 
speaking with the confidence 
of a man who had nothing to 
hide. 
"What Ray Lewis went 
through was a year ago. Let it 
go," he said. 
What he went through was 
this: a much-publicized case in 
which he was cleared of mur­
der charges in exchange for a 
guilty plea to obstruction of 
justice and testimony against 
his co-defendants, who were 
found innocent. 
'Tm not there to justify what 
went on. That's a story in my 
book that's closed," he 
declared. 
Lewis repeated what he has 
claimed since his arrest ­
that he was made a scapegoat 
by Atlanta officials, who 
weren't really trying to find 
the real killer. 
"The real truth is this was 
never about those two kids 
that were dead in the street. 
This is about Ray Lewis, and 
that's not right," he said. 
"Don't be mad at me. The per­
son to be mad at is [prosecu­
tor] Paul Howard, the mayor 
of Atlanta, the people who 
never said one time we're 
going to find out who killed 
•these people. They said we're going to get Ray Lewis." 
····•··.:·•··•••·•·..••:•:••·•..•••·······•·••••····•••••i·/.\)··•••·••·•••·•·• ··.·•·••••.Lr··········•··•••··••••>•·•··••:) }.••••<•j···•··•••···•·•··.··...••·····...··........·.. 
THe . 1au Se1 s ~n el!ea1ning
i~~!f~~=b;;Ji~0/;.; . 
"eLearning:· 
. . 
Its Promises, Ptpblen,s an{:I Pedagogical Challenges for the Humanities'' 
and Faculty Invited to Attend 


Steve Tomasula, Assistant Professional Specialist, Department of English 
R.ev. Joseph Weiss, S.J.,<Adn,ini~trative John F. Sherman, Associate Professional . Director, Institute forChurch Life · · Specialist,·.Artand Design 
F. Clark Power, Department Chair, Program of Liberal Studies 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, January 24, 200 l 
AUSTRALIAN OPEN 

Agassi moves on to semifinals with victory over Martin 
in the final set, waited out the Martin said the Sampras that 
Associated Press 

distraction and then served an he beat was out of practice, ace. but "Andre is very much inMELBOURNE, Australia He then held serve and, form.... Andre thrives on con­
Andre Agassi has every 

three games later, broke fidence, and he's got plenty of 
weapon in the tennis arsenal Agassi for a 4-3 lead. But it."

and command of them all. 

Agassi broke right back and "I was beaten today," MartinTodd Martin was only the lat­went on to win. said. "I certainly didn't lose. l est to find that out. 
"I put on a good front," didn't play nearly as well as IOn match point, Martin hit a Agassi said of his mercy had hoped. Most of that is due
good angle volley. Agassi 

toward the bug. to the way Andre played."
chased it down, blasted a shot His tennis, meanwhile, "feels Agassi improved his recordthat Martin could only block pretty good. I've gotten better against Martin to 13-5. Nobody

back, and then lobbed over 

as the tournament has gone ever has beaten both Samprashim. 
on," the No. 6 seed said. and Agassi at a Grand SlamWith his 7-5. 6-3, 6-4 victory "I felt on top of it today," he tournament.
Tuesday, the defending cham­added. "It's the best I have At age 30, Agassi and Martin

pion was in the Australian 

ever felt against Todd. I was were the oldest players still inOpen semifinals -and without making him earn all the points the men's ranks after thePete Sampras to worry about. 
he was winning, and felt like I fourth round here. 
Last year, Agassi's come­

was executing everything that I On the men's side, 1999from-behind, five-set victory could do as well as possible." champion and 2000 runner-upover Sampras in the semifinals Agassi's Australian Open tri­Yevgeny Kafelnikov plays No.
was the supreme showdown of umph last year ended a run of 15 Arnaud Clement. and No.

the Australian. This time, 

four Grand Slam tournaments 16 Sebastien Grosjean meetsMartin knocked out Sampras where he also won the French Carlos Moya, who is unseededin the fourth round, ending a and U.S. Opens and was run­
13-match losing streak against but a former No. 1. him. ner-up at Wimbledon. After Grosjean beat No. 4 
Winning all four in a year
Agassi next faces the winner Magnus Norman Monday of a night match between two­"would be great," he said. night, all four top men's seeds ti me U.S. Open champion "There's no saying it can't be were gone before the quarter­
Patrick Rafter -the home­done, but I think we're a lot finals for only the third time in town favorite -and No. 14 closer to seeing Mark a Grand Slam tournament seed Dominik Hrbaty. McGwire's home run record since the Open era began in 
Agassi interrupted his match being beat than we are to see­1968. briefly to catch a bug near the ing someone win four Grand No. 1 Gustavo Kuerten, No. 2 baseline and throw it off court. Slams in the same year in the Marat Safin and No. 3 Sampras 
Martin, trailing 30-40 and 1-2 men's game." lost earlier. 
Got Sports? Call 1-4543. 
SIGN UPS NOW OPEN 





HESBURGH AWARD D·ES.IGN COMPETITION ANNO·UNCED 
Rev. Steve Newton, C.S.C., President and Chief Executive Officer of The Wilson Foundation, has announed that all members of the Notre Dame and St. Mary's College Community are invited to participate in the design of a new award, named in honor of Notre Dame's Emeritus Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. The award -The Hesburgh Award for International Human Development -will be given annually by the Wilson Foundation to honor lives of commitment to international human development in terms of new economic, social and political structures in the third world. The first recipient will be Fr. Hesburgh himself. He will be presented the award at a May 7 ceremony in New York City. 
It is expected that each design submitted will incorporate the logo of the foundation, some depiction of inernational development and these thoughts of Fr. Hes burgh, from his Book God, Country, Notre Dame: 
"One ofthe greatest heresies is that in our modern world one person cannot make a difference. I do not believe that for one moment. I know it is factually inaccurate. One person or group ofpersons can make an enourmous difference in our lives and our way ofliving. History is replete with heroic people who realized that they could make a difference and did -despite the conventional wisdon ofthe day. " 
The \\iilson Foundation exists to assure the delivery of quality treatment for addictive illnesses to persons who are denied access to such, espe­cially in areas served by the Congregation of Holy Cross. Current foundation focus is on the countries of East Africa. Locally, Life Treatment Centers is the key partner of the foundation's efforts. 
Design Competition The Wilson Foundation 1402 S. Michigan St. South Bend, IN 46613 219-233-5433 
The decision of The Wilson Foundation judges is final. Design samples will be returned ifrequested. 

¦ 





Wednesday, January 24, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
8-ball 
continued from page 24 
of the court all night. 
Trailing at the half by eight, Syracuse managed to tally only 26 points and finished the game shooting just 3 7 percent form the field and 30 percent from behind the arc. 
"We have to shoot the ball well," Boeheim said. "We have no other plan B. We have to get those shots on the perime­ter." 
Preston Shumpert was the lone bright spot on an other­wise struggling Syracuse team. The forward led his squad with 25 points, posing a threat on inside and out, with 18 points behind the arc. 
Forward Damone Brown, recovering from a leg injury sustained in practice started for the Orangemen but was unable to play at full speed. adding only seven points on the night. 
"We depend on four guys and when they're healthy we're a good team," Boeheim said. "When Brown is hurt, we don't have anyone to take his place. We need him on the court. He, in his capacity tonight, was the best we had and so we went with him." 
DeShaun Williams and Billy Celuck added 10 apiece in the losing effort. 
Carroll also scored in double digits for the Irish, adding 14 points with four 3-pointers and a short jumper. 
Notre Dame's conference win was important for a team in the thick of the league race. With a meeting against Georgetown next on the agen­da, the Irish have a chance to grab hold of the league lead and Brey is ready to prepare his team for the challenge. 
"We get to go to Georgetown on Saturday and we get to play for possession of first place in a league," Brey said, "taking care of league business was good for us tonight." 

Fresh-baked Cini-minis for just 99(. Maximum taste. 

Got the urge?"' The irresistible taste of Cini-minis. 
Whether it was the smell or the great cinnamon taste that lured you in, after one bite you'll soon realize that the only thing small about our delicious Cini-minis is the price. 
The Huddle, Lafortune Student Center 

Meet with representatives from campus clubs and community organizations to learn about the many ways to get involved in local and summer service opportunities. 
WANT TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE IN THE LIFE OF A CHILD THIS SUMMER? 
COME FOR AJOB INTERVIEW TO WORK AT: 
CAMP SWEENEY 
A RESIDENTIAL SPORTS CAMP IN NORTH TEXAS FOR CHILDREN WITH DIABETES. INTERVIEWS THURSDAY AND FRIDAY, JANUARY 25TH AND 26TH FROM 9:00 AM TO 5:00 PM IN FLANNER HALL. 
Camp Sweeny is an equal opportunity employer. 
Come to the ocial Cone 
• 
Where: The Center for Social Concerns When: Thur~day, January 25, 2001 Time: 7 p.m. -9 p.m. 

Wednesday, January 24, 2001 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS 
MEN'S-BASKETBALL 

Murphy leads Irish win over Syracuse with 34 points 
recorded the worst game of "Syracuse was a team Jan. 2 loss at Syracuse. ing Notre Dame to keep a By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN his collegiate career, scoring Tuesday before the game, he healthy lead until the
that I never played well
Associate Sports Editor only five points and going O­replayed the video. Murphy Orangemen turned up the fo r-11 from the free throw against. I played my didn't like what he saw. intensity just before halftime. 
Troy Murphy swooped down line. The Big East Rookie of worst game there as a "I only went to the line one In the second stanza. 
on the hoop Tuesday night, the Year and the Irish lost 75-freshman.,, time," Murphy said. "I wasn't Murphy sliced Syracuse's coming in from the left for a very active. I tried to attack defenses early on, scoring the
63. The next four times 
slam dunk the gaps more tonight, and I first seven points for the Irish.
Murphy faced Syracuse, he 
Troy Murphy

on a fast 
scored more, but never think I was pretty successful. I The Orangemen never did break pass showed his A-game against Irish player can tell how active I am by manage to corral Murphy. from team­the Orangemen. Instead, how many times I get to the Whether they cornered him, mate Ryan East. line." double-teamed him or fouled
Syracuse shelled Notre Dame Humphrey. in five straight games, includ­"Sooner or later, he's going Eleven separate trips to the him in frustration, Murphy The sec­to get away from you. We've free throw line. Murphy must still found a way to the hoop.
ing a two-point win last March 
ond -half kept him from getting it in low have been moving more than Murphy turned in arguably
that squelched Irish hopes of 
for five games," Syracuse the best all-around perfor­
slam jam making March Madness. the Energizer bunny. 
counted for Murphy coach Jim Boeheim said. The All-American went 9-mance of his career. It was his
Earlier this month, Murphy, a just two of preseason pick to repeat as "That's why we've had suc­for-17 from the field, taking 15th 30-point night, but he Murphy's 34 points, but it sig­cess against him in the past. advantage of some sweet added 16 rebounds to boot
Big East Player of the Year naled the start of a 10-0 Irish That was the difference in the feeds from his teammates. against Syracuse. More impor­
and first team All-American, 
run and the momentum it game." Senior point guard Martin tantly, the Irish won, launch­
was held to 19 points and five 
gave the Irish was the begin­All game long, Murphy Ingelsby and sophomore ing them into contention for a
rebounds as Notre Dame lost 
ning of the end for the wreaked havoc on Syracuse. guard Matt Carroll each Big East Championship for the
at Syracuse 79-70. 
Orangemen. It also helped "Syracuse was a team that I None of the Orangemen dished off six assists, and first time ever. provide Murphy with his first never played well against," defenders could get a handle junior small forward David Murphy was as tough as fond thoughts of taking on on him, with their only outlet Graves added three. someone walking on hot lava
Murphy said. "I played my
Syracuse, as Notre Dame went worst game there as a fresh­to stopping a Murphy field "When you get the ball two coals, and the Irish sailed to on to win 74-60. goal being to foul him. That feet from the hoop, you 're the easy win. \Vith more mon­
man." 

"Those are shots that are recourse didn't work, as either going to get a lay-up or umental efforts from Murphy,
Murphy didn't just play well 
Murphy nailed 16 of 19 Brey will have to rehang the
hard to miss, those dunks," a free throw," Graves said.
Tuesday -he dominated. He 
Murphy said. attempts from the free throw "Troy was at the end of some NCAA Tournament brackets
helped the Irish stuff the No. 
Troy Murphy associates a line. great penetration and great he removed during Irish woes
11 Orangemen by raining in 
M a kin g it to th e ch a r ity earlier this season.
bundle of bad memories with 34 points and seizing 16 passes." playing Syracuse. stripe was a focal point for Murphy scored at opportune If Murphy hangs up the
rebounds. The win vaulted In Murphy's first clash with Murphy prior to Tuesday's times Tuesday. He spread his kinds of numbers he did
No.tre Dame into a tie with 
the Orangemen his freshman game. Monday before going to 12 first-half points out Tuesday, all opponents will be
Syracuse for second place in 
bed, he watched tape of the throughout the period, allow-able to do is watch and weep.
year, a Joyce Center game, he the West Division of the Big 





Wednesday, January 24, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
Bulger (15.0 points per game} centage_ on threes. The Irish and senior Darya are shooting a nation's best Kudryavtseva (14.7 points) are 54.1 percent (86-of-59), with continued from page 24 among the Big East's top ten Ratay (41-of-67 for 61.2 per­scorers. They are both good cent) and Ivey (34-of-61 for 
Women 
"It's going to be a month 
three-point shooters, with 55. 7 percent) ranking as the 
before it gets better," McGraw Bulger's 49.3 percent (37-of-top two three-point shooters in 
said of Siemon 's injury. 7 5) ranking sixth in the coun­the country. "There's no sense in aggravat­try. Kudryavtseva has hit 35-"We've been playing well all ing it any further. We'll figure of-80 from beyond the arc. As year, we've been playing know­
out what we can do in the a team, West Virginia shoots ing that we can win all year,"meantime." 42.3 percent (112-of-265) on McGraw said. "But actually
Notre Dame must contain three-pointers. doing it (beating Connecticut)West Virginia's three-point Notre Dame is the only Big gives you that added boost. It's shooting. Freshman Kate East squad with a higher per-a great feeling." 
Tired of living in that cramped dorm room or the same old apartment? 
Live in Oak Hill next year! Two Bedroom/two bathroom townhouse for sale. Includes fireplace, patio and community pool. Just two minutes from campus! Please call Erica or Kyle at (315) 641-1927 for further information. 
Spring Break Seminars 
March 10-18, 2001 Experiential/Service Learning 
Center for Social Concerns 
APPALACHIA SEMINAR 
-> Work and learn at one of 10 sites in the Appalachian region 


-> An ND tradition of service-learning 
L'ARCHE COMMUNITY SEMINAR 
-> Live for a week in community with persons with disabilities -> Read the work of Jean Vanier, Henri Nouwen 
MIGRANT EXPERIENCES SEMINAR 
-> Work in the fields with migrant workers -> Assist agencies that serve migrants -> Live with migrant families 
WASHINGTON SEMINAR 

Theme: International Humanitarian Issues 
-> Direct contact with political, agency, and Church leaders in Washington, D.C. -> Service and political awareness opportunities 

All seminars offer one academic credit 

CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL 

Applications Available Now at the CSC CONCERNS A p p I i c a t i o n s D u e: Ja n. 31, 2001 

LISA VELTE/The Observer 

Niele Ivey goes up for a shot In Notre Dame's upset over then 
No. 1 Connecticut. 


page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, January 24, 200 l 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Saint Mary's hope to end losing streak with Hornet win 
By KATIE McVOY Assiscam Sports Editor 

L,. 
II 
i. 
Technical skill and coaching will

L 
play its part, but much of tonight's

I 
home meeting between the Belles

I 
and the Kalamazoo Hornets will

I 
I'· 
focus on history and emotion. 1· The Hornets felt the sting of the 
I 
Olivet Comets on Saturday, drop­

l 
l ping the game to Olivet 54-53, and falling to fourth place in the
H 
MIM behind Calvin. The Hornet

1: 
loss has inspired hope in the Belles and they will be ready to win as they step onto the court at 
7:30 p.m. 
"I think our team is really look­ing forward to a win," post player Anne Blair said. "Because we lost to Olivet as well is going to make us eager to go out there and win." 
Coming off of five consecutive losses, most recently to Adrian, the Belles need that win. Currently, the only Saint Mary's MIAA win has come against Albion, and tonight's game against Kalamazoo marks the end of the first half ofMIM play. 
"[This game] is really big," head coach Suzanne Smith said. "We need to get two wins in the first round of MIM play." 
In addition to the sheer need to win, the Belles and the Hornets have some history to deal with. Last year, a Saint Mary's team that only won four games all sea­son upset Kalamazoo at home late in regular season play~ Kalamazoo may be looking for revenge, but Saint Mary's plans to use that to its advantage. 
"I think they're gonna come out really wanting to beat us," Blair said. "But that will strike us hard because we know we can win and we want to." 
Adrian's strong press on Saturday led to several Saint Mary's scoring problems. Smith and her team have been focusing on the offense this week at pr~c-


Check Friday's Observer for the Schedule of all LNO First Round Games/Matches I 
**A TTENTIQN* * 
I 
~JUNIORS!11/./) 
I I 

g 'ft>,
In tribute to our classmates 
I 
Conor, Brionne, and Erica, 
· and also as an act of Social Justice, 
a collection is being taken for
i 
the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society at JPW seating registration: 
Wednesday, Jan. 24th 1:00-6:00 pm and Thursday, Jan. 25th 12:00-4:00 pm in Rooms 112-114 in the CCE, McKenna Hall 
A $2.00 donation is requested from each Junior. Your generosity is greatly appreciated. 
tice. 

"We're working to be really aggressive," Smith said. "Most teams in the MIAA that we've faced have come out with the press and we've been kind of ten­tative." 
Getting the ball inside was also a major problem on Saturday, one that the Belles do not plan on hav­ing tonight. 
"We've really worked with our post players," Smith said. ''Saturday our guards threw some passes to people that weren't open and we've been working with them to look inside." 
In addition to working with guards and post players, the Belles are hoping that size may come into play under the basket. Blair. Elizabeth Linkous and Kelly Roberts are all 6-footers while Kalamazoo's post players, Amanda Weishuhn and Lindsay Drury. only stand 5-foot-10. 
"They have a small line-up post wise," Blair said. "[Our guards] 
can look into the post players 
more." 
The Belles have recently strug­
gled with team unity. but tonight 
they will have to work together to 
beat a quick Kalamazoo offense. 
"Kalamazoo has a lot of quick 
guards," Smith said. "We really 
need to work on team defense." 
The Belles are still not playing 
with a complete team. Leading 
forward Kristen Matha is still out 
with an injured hip flexor muscle 
and will not return to practice 
until Monday at the earliest. In 
addition, sophomore guard Katie 
Christiansen went home sick from 
practice on Monday. She is, how­
ever, expected to be at full 
strength tonight. 
"Christiansen has been sick," 
Smith said. "But she's a real fight­
er and she will be ready to play on 
Wednesday." 
Action will tip off tonight at 7:30 
p.m. in Angela Athletic facility. 
Sr. Pat;~,·····..·... 
:: :i -:;;:~::;::)\:\@@~/
:.-.-::3;,_._.:..-,..·.· 
a.t Jtll.t 
•., -••,• , 
I 



·...Jfili}t.. Ii:I;l;\·...•.•·· .. •,t.··•·.•i'. 
ti Tonight, ttlJ.liii1dBli.i, i •.. 11 special nalftliid.tlli(~lifa
0 

4-vr. reme111beraoc11 QI Ille / 
·. . . . '.·. 

seniors' favorite '1illinu station" IB.lll. c111111anau1 ·· tor karaoke and other famous tradidtfll~;ijf.ffiiii>...·..·..·.. 
memorable establishment lsee ourwertaaue:• www.nd.edu/-ascJ In addition, lile-tlmaclOb memberships will be sold at hall urtca ($10Jthrouuh the month ol Januarv and sign-ups will be available tor Thursdav night dart league staning in februarv. Must be 21 or older with valid I.D. 


KAAVThe Observer 
Jamie Dineen drives toward the basket in against Marion in a game earlier in the season. 
~-~~,~~~-~r···-~~~';~J-\•!·~~1,~~i~· -~'·_:r~.. :~~~----:· .-·-~ --:---~0-.~;·;:·-_._,· ·-~--· ~ ·:,/~-~'~--~~t-f7\t-t~!~.:_-~•~~~~ 
:~:}·~:-: :., >: <: ::l Summer Employment~~ cier National Park · 

Wednesday, January 24, 2001 
The Observer . TODAY page 23 
FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY 



CROSSWORD ACROSS 28 Tum in 59 They show guts 1 Bloke 30 Noncommittal 63 Not home response 64 Walking on air
5 Out of it 
32 Eastem 
65 Faxed

11 Show of team 
European
spirit 66 Photo_
language

14 First name in 67 One-named
33 •t didn't do it,•
the 40's-50's 90's singer
for one
Yankees 68 Film dog
35 Appraiser's skill 

15 "Civis Aomanus 
36 Klutz
sum• speaker 
DOWN
41 100 yrs.

16 Fancy name 
1 Bikes
appendage 42 Bank patrons 2 Santa's greeting

17 Green Bay 43 Items on belts 3 AARP concem
Packers tans 47 Trattoria orders 4 Waterfront walk

19 Some batters, 51 It works like a for short charm 5 Rocks 20 Noted wine 52 1999 Ron 6 Place for med. valley Howard film researchers 21 School 53 " ... _ quit1• 7 Champion assignment 54 Card carrier 8 One cause of 23 Sounds of doubt 56 Shiver-trembling producing 9Commands
24 Holiday shortening 58 Spiritual path 1 O Kind of truth 11 Its valley is ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE tabled in song 
~-!!!!"r.:!!!"I 12 Camels may 

PUD.le bf EJlzabldt C. Glll'llcJ
end up here 

36 ·star Trek• 48 Side in the 57 Socialite 
37 Salves War 
58 Picnic locale 
~.;;.a.;;.a.;;.;;;.a.;;;..a 18 Tchaikovsky's 

38 "Cheep• accom-49 _ Express
"Souvenir de 60 Address abbr. 
Florence: e.g. modalions? 50 Reason to close 39 Act servilely up shop 61 Uncle_
22 Slouan 
~....+,;;..;;~ 

40 Su~rlative 55 Not fake 62 Writer LeShan
25 Outfielder's cry

~~.,,....,~~ ending 
..,,...................,... 26 Princes abroad 

41 Calculating27Clams and person, for short Answers to any three clues in this puzzle oysters, e.g. 44 Popular street are available by touch-tone phone; _...,.....,....._... 29 Squeeze (out) name 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). ~.;;.1,,.;;;.~~ 31 Summer hours 45 Yeshiva teachers Annual subscriptions are available for the in N.Y.C. 46 "Dear Prue• best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 writer years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
....._~_.__.a..;.., 34 Hopping mad 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
TYLER

THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 

4 
l 
l 1 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 24, 2001 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON not a taker. 000 THIS DAY: Mary Lou Retton, VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Ray Stevens, Oral Roberts, John Don't be too eager to hand out Belushi, Warren Zevon, Nastassja information about others or you Kinski, Neil Diamond, Tatyana may find yourself in hot water. Ali, Aaron Neville You will be misinterpreted 
Ha~!;l Birthday: You will if you are not precise in your find it · cult to please others, so commwtlcations. 000 start with yourself and work on LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): It's your own emotional well-being best not to spend too much on for a change. Then you'll find it luxury items or purchases for easier to make those around you your home. Lending or borrow­haf>py. Your professional position ing will get you into trouble. 
is manging, but the result can be Losses are evident if you are care­to your advantage if you are on less with your cash. 00 top of your game. You will SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): receive the necessary support if You appear to be experiencing 
you are open about your inten­some difficulties with your per­tions. Your numbers: 15, 19, 20, sonal situation. Don't try to push 23, 38,44 your beliefs on others. Allow your ARIES (March 21-April 19): partner the necessary freedom. 
You need a creative outlet for Jealousy will cause loneliness. your high energy. You're interest­00 ed in having more youngsters SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 
around you to spend time with. 21): Travel will lead to romance 
and adventure. Your creative tal­

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): ents will surface, and you should You may have problems with pursue your dreams. Children female members of your family. may play a crucial part in your Don't let your emotions take over file today. 0000 or harsh words may follow and CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan·. cause even greater upset. Your 19): Don't hesitate to invite partner is not likely to sympathize. friends over for a social evening . 
You can form partnerships that 
0000 
00 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): will be fruitful and lasting. Real Romantic encounters are appar­estate investments look good. Put ent. Get out and socialize or take your offer in writing. 0000 a trip that will be conducive to AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): love. You are overdue for a little Your partner will be in need of 
time out. Pamper yourself and attention. Don't neglect his or her have fun. 00000 needs unless you are prepared to CANCER (June 21-July 22): deal with tantrums. Commwtlca­
Don't overspend on children, tion will help your relationship. entertairunent or self-indulgences. 000 If you are drawn into gossip at PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): A work, it could lead to difficulties new lover will be yours if you with your employer. 000 become involved in creative hob­
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You bies or travel. You may attract will be excessively sensitive more than one individual, but today. Try not to be too dramatic, don't try to play one against the 
or your mate may leave you to other. Be honest and you'll gain a suffer all alone. You are creating friend.00000 your own problems. Be a giver, 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
P.O. Box Q

and mail to: 
Notre Daine, IN 46556 

D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester Name _______________________ Address ____________________ 
.,..

City ________ State ____ Zip______ 


By KERRY SMITH 
Sports Editor 
The long arms of the Orangemen defense could not stretch far enough to eke out a win Tuesday in Notre Dame's 74-60 upset over No. 11 Syracuse. 
Syracuse was knocking on Notre Dame's door the entire game, but as the minutes ticked off of the clock and the score remained close, the Irish answered loud and clear. 
With the home crowd in a frenzy, Irish center Troy Murphy and forward Ryan Humphrey combined for a pair of hard-hitting dunks while David Graves stepped up on defense and took a charge, sparking the Irish to a 21­point lead with less than four minutes remaining. 
"Defensively, when we went to man to man and our stu­dent section was making noise, that flusters people," Irish head coach Mike Brey said. "We were taking charges, scraping stuff off the lane. That makes the differ­ence." 
Big plays might have sealed the win, but Murphy's consis­tent play supplied the differ­ence on the court. 
The junior scored a game­high 34 points, muscling his way to the foul line 10 times ­a much-needed improvement after making only one trip to 

l 
\ ' 
! 
I 
\ 
l 
I 

Moving up 
Andre Agassi moves to the Australian Open semifinals following a 7-5. 6-3. 6-4 win over Todd Martin. 
page 18 
O
THE 

page 24 BSERVER 
Wednesday, January 24, 200 l 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Notre Dame shuts door on Syracuse for a 7 4-60 victory 
the line in Jan. 2 loss at the Carrier Dome. 
.. I tried to be more active tonight," Murphy said. "I can tell how active I am by how many times I go to the line and one time is not very good." 
While Murphy's force in the lane frustrated the Orangemen defense, the Irish perimeter players made it happen. Guards Matt Carroll and Martin lngelsby split 12 assists to the big men down low, while Graves dished out another three. 
"Our main focus was to get the big guys easy shots," Graves said. "It was a great team effort. [Murphy] was on the end of some great penetra­tion and some great passes." 
The Orangemen also felt Murphy's effects on the boards, as the junior brought down a game-high 16 rebounds. 
"\tVe played Murphy well for five games, but sooner or later he was going to get away from us," Syracuse head coach Jim Boeheim said. "If he gets· in the lane he's going to get fouled and that's the differ­ence. We've got two young guys in the center and they weren't up to the challenge of stopping him." _ 
If Murphy's presence in the lane frustrated the defense, finding the net frustrated the Orangemen on the other end 
see B-BALL/page 19 

WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish return to normal scene with trip to West Virginia 
Murphy, Humphrey and Brey. town, look for the season Dame has shut down their Joyce provide an added 
By TIM CASEY 

The added attention may not attendance record (579) to be opponents by mainly utilizing dimension. 
Assistant Sports Editor 

wear off for a while and the broken. two aggressive zone sets. "You can't guard every­
record may stay unblemished ..We've had a target on our "As long as we can stay out body," McGraw said. "It seems 
Since the now-legendary as Notre Dame (18-0 overall, back all year," coach Muffet of foul trouble, that makes it like whatever teams have Connecticut victory, the Irish 7-0 in conference) faces the McGraw said. "And we're still (the defense) better," McGraw decided to give up, that's what saw the illuminated No. 1 Big East also-rans in the com­supposed to win every game so said. "Everybody's a year we've been good at. It's like arise on 
ing few weeks. everybody's going to be out smarter and a year stronger in 'pick who you want to beat top of The Irish return to the nor­gunning for us. We could be the zone." you.' " Grace Hall. mal women's basketball scene ranked 201 but people are still The same can be said for the Unfortunately for the Irish. answered starting with tonight's game at going to want to beat us players• offensive production. Siemon, who broke her left the prover­West Virginia. Instead of a because we're Notre Dame." While Ruth Riley, Alicia hand in the Jan. 13 game bial "How sold-out Joyce Center atmos­One main reason for the Ratay and Niele Ivey gain most against Virginia Tech, will sit does it feel phere, Notre Dame will com­early-season success has been of the publicity, the contribu­out of tonight's contest. The to be the pete at the 14,000 seat West the Irish's stifling defense. tions from the other players senior forward will be re­top team in Virginia Coliseum. The aver­They rank second in the coun­have benefitted the Irish. In examined on Tuesday and may t h e McGraw age attendance for try in scoring defense (54.5 the 72-47 win over Seton Hall play against Providence on nation?" Mountaineer home games (467 points per game) and have on Sunday, forward Ericka Jan. 31. Leahy will replace roughly 7,312 times and stole fans) comprises just 3.4 per­held the previous 18 foes to a Haney scored a team-high 17 Siemon at power forward. the campus spotlight away cent of the stadium's capacity. nation's best 33.5 percent points, and Meaghan Leahy, from some guys named With the Irish coming to shooting from the floor. Notre Kelley Siemon and Jeneka see WOMEN/page 21 
at West Virginia Women's Swimming 
. 

Today, 7 p.m. at Northwesterm
SPORTS ~ 
vs. Yale

Thursday, 5 p.m. 
at New Haven, Conn. 
ATA • ~ ..._. 
vs. Indiana at Georgetown Saturday, 4 p.m. t::=:.. Thursday, 4 p.m. Saturday, 12 p.m.
GLANCE ,rfj) • . 



