
-
Fall break may have just ended ...
PARTLY 
Monday
CLOUDY 
But Scene takes a look at hot getaways for students' next one-week vacation -spring break. 

NOVEMBERS, 
HIGH 64° 
Scene . pages 12-13 
2001 
LOW 44° 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary~ 
VOL XXXV NO. 44 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 





Priest educates about SOA's consequences 
American soldiers so that the least 10.000. These graduates bro·ught this issue to nati<inal poor face dying agricultural
By MEGHANNE DOWNES 
UnitPd States could secure L4tin have been linked to countless awareness. Several newspapers crops due to the chemicals used 
News Writer 
· :\nwrica as an ally. Since the assassinations. kidnappings, and and news magazines have called to kill the cocoa leaves. 
fa 11 or the Soviet Union , the paramilitary groups. Hecently. a for the school's closure. Traditionally, those \-vho speak 
Four U.S. church women sd10ol has reshaped its focus to paramilitary group in Colombia An investigative report by the out on behalf of the working rapPd and murdPn'd. Six Jesuit spr<'ading the principles of was added to the U.S.'s terrorist Washington Post uncovered that poor's rights are met with strict priPsls assassinatnd. \lirn' hun­d•~morracv in Latin America, watch list. the school provided instructional opposition from the military and drt>d civilians massarrnd. Thn and annuaily it trains 1200 sol­"Ilow do you teach democracy manuals on torture to its partici­government and violence ev<'nts ar<> linkPd b1•rausP pt>rp<~­di,,rs a vear. through the barrel of a gun?" pants. The school no longer pro­ensues. trators of tlwsP crinws attPndPd Four ·million dollars from the said Bourgeois. vidr.s such manuals. Hundreds of national and the U.S. govPrnment funded annual federal budget is used to In 1990, Bourgeois founded The watch is focused on the liturgical organizations have School of' th<' Americas (S0A). operat1~ this school. the S0A \Vatch in Fort Benning, political and economic state of passed resolutions supporting 
On Friday. FathPr Hoy Bourgeois took an opposing Georgia to educate the U.S. pub­Colombia as a result of the the efforts of the S0A Watch, HourgPois visited Notre Damp viPW and said that instead of lic and congressional leaders United States· foreign policy. including about half of the U.S. and spoke to stud<'nts about th<' establishing democracy, the about the residual consequencf's Currentlv the U.S. authorizes 1.3 Catholic bishops. Most of the history of thP U.S. for<'ign polky United States has allowed for thf' of U.S. training of Latin billion d·ollars towards disman­bishops who have not taken a with Latin America and its din~ct people of Latin Amf'rir.a to be American soldiers. The group tling the Colombian drug world. stance on the issue state that ties to the S0A. opprPssed by its military. has now grown to have over 200 The elite. government. and mili­they need to investigate the mat­
S0A was Pstablishe<l during Colombia has the most S0A satellite offices across the nation. tary are seeing the benefits of the Cold \Var to teach Latin gniduates in its military with at The work of its members has this funding, while the working see SOA/page 4 

SEEING GREEN 
Committee to 
discuss U.S. 
media in wake 
of attacks 
Special to The Observer 
"American Journalism After September 11" will be the subject of a public forum today at Notre Dame. · 
Thn forum. featuring members of thn advisory committee of Notn~ Damn·s John \.V. Gallivan Pro!!ram on 
·· Public
Journalism. Ethics & Democracy, will lecture begin at 3 p.m. in 
today

Hoom 100 of 
\,f K 11 II It · . What: "American
.v1C enna I a . IS free and open to Journalism After the public. 
September 11"

Composed ol' Notre Dame alumni . Where: Room
.

in journalism. the 
100 McKenna Hall 

advisory committee 
. When: 3 p.m.

hPlps guide the Gallivan Program and includes Tom B('ttag. executive pro­ducer of' .'\BC \Jews· ":\lightlin<'.. : Bill Dwyre. sports editor of the Los Angeles Times; John \.V. Gallivan. chairman of the board and publisher emeritus of the Kearns Tribune Corporation; John \1cMeP.l. chairman of Andrews \1cMePI Universal; Jim :\laughton. pn•sident of the Povnter Institute for Media Studies; Matt Storin. retin~d Pditor of' The Boston Globe: K•~lley Tuthill, reporter for WCVB-TV. Boston; and Don Wyrliff. public editor of the Chicago Tribune. 
Established in 1997 ,-vith a grant from the John S. and James L. Knight Foundation and now supportl~d with an endowment created by the family of John W. Gallivan. the program is a five­course concentration for undergradu­ates that combines professional training in journalistic skills along with exami­nation of the social, political. economic and philosophical concerns related to 
Tennessee fans in orange were not as visible a presence as Nebraska fans in last year's "sea of red" event. 
the practice ofjournalism.
,,,,,._.... . . . . .' ....,..... .... ~ ................. ,.
~ 


Monday, November 5, 2001

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 



·Justice: who pays and when? 
It's a familiar enough phenomenon in American society: buy now, pay later. It's.become so com­mon to our way of life that we don't even thirik twice about the prospects and commitments it entails. Interestingly enough, I've recently come to the conclusion that the same mentality is present regarding the "War on Terror," which could lead to more dangerous consequences than credit card debt. 
Most Americans seem to believe that our actions in Afghanistan ·are justified, and that may be true. rm going to go out on a limb, however, and suggest that we're not going about it in the best way. 
We call the Taliban cow­ards (Sept. 24, pentagon spokesperson), but the hypocrisy of this statement is laughable. Who, praytell, has engaged in the most cowardly acts in this war? As our stealth bombers strike from the upper atmosphere, authorities have the audacity to call the enemy cowardly? 
This is military propaganda at its finest. For those of you who don't believe that this is the case, I also suggest reading the pamphlets we have recently showered the Afghan people with instructing them on our impervious military and our overall superiority. Is sending messages of impending doom not terror at its height? Are these people not living in the grips of the very fear we seek to eradicate at the hands of those who fashion themselves deliverers? 
Further, how many innocent people have we doomed to a slow death in the coming months with our actions? The number of displaced Afghans grows each day, with more than 2 million already in Pakistan and more being turned away at the border. These people are living in tent com­munities, and without serious aid cannot survive the Asian winter. 
The help they nQed must be on the way now to get there in time, but the U.N. and our own gov­ernment have been silent on these issues stem­ming directly from U.S. action in Afghanistan. Would not this be a better use for the millions of charity dollars raised lately than dividing it among attack survivors? Is not saving life more important than reparations? 
It has become unacceptable to have U.S. mili­tary casualties since the Gulf War. but it seems innocent foreigners are not extended the same grace. On the topic of the Asian winter, it is quite interesting that the Pentagon thinks that it can use it to its own advantage. I suppose that Napoleon, Hitler, and Brezhnev thought they could to the same thing, but failed. Perhaps the 
U.S. will be the first outside invader to use the Asian winter to its own advantage, but what are the odds, really? As our experiences with North Korea have shown us, in times of hardship the armies are always the first to receive food and shelter at the expense of the people. 
So as we sit half a world away hoping to pur­chase justice and security now, let us remember that we will have to pay a price tomorrow. Those innocent lives we sacrifice now will lead to more animosity towards us, guaranteed. 
For those of you who think this War is a noble thing, I suggest reading Mark Twain's The War Prayer. For those of you who think we can escape the consequences of our self-righteous acts, try Edgar Allen Poe's The Masque of the Red Death. 
Contact Tom Haight at THaight@nd.edu. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 
The editorial "Show Spirit by wearing The Shirt" in the Nov. 2 issue of The Observer was a draft copy and should never have been seen in print. In the same issue on page 4, Tom Banchoff was mistakenly iden~ tified as Eduardo Zombrano. The Ob~erver regrets these errors. The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduaion rights are reserved. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Monday  Tuesday  
. Film: "Salt of the  . Lecture: "Property Law  
Earth," 4 p.m .• Hesburgh  and Personhood; the  
Center  movement of landless  
. Lecture: "Hybrid  workers in Brazil," Greg  
Housing," Stafanos  Downey, 12:30 p.m.,  
Polyzoides, 4:30 p.m, Bond  Hesburgh Center  
Hall  . Film: "Nostlaghia,"  
7 p.m., La Fortune  
BEYOND CAMPUS  

Wednesday 
. 
Storytelling: "Brown and Black and White All Over," Antonio Sacre, 7 to 9 p.m .. Lafortune 

. 
Film: "Doces poderes," director Lucia Murat will be present, 7 p.m., Hesburgh Center 


Thursday 
. Debate: "Sociology Issues Surrounding Gun Control," Eugene Volokh and G. Robert Blakey, 
5:30 p.m., Notre Dame Law School 
. Film: "Taste of Cherry," 7 p.m .. Hesburgh Library 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Michigan fraternity puts itself on probation 
ANN ARBOR 

One week after two 18-year-old women were allegedly drugged and sexually assaulted at an unregistered semiformal event at Beta Theta Pi, the University of Michigan fraternity has voluntarily placed itself on social probation. 
"The chapter has shown that they are more than willing to cooperate with the ongoing investigations," Interfraternity Council President Marc Hustvedt said. 
The fraternity will not hold any social events indefinitely. 
Hustvedt said the fraternity's actions demonstrate that members want the situation to be resolved quickly. 
"I think this was definitely the right thing to do and shows that there is 

Beta Theta Pi notified IFC's Social Responsibility Committee of its deci­sion to go on probation, and the com­mittee decided not to issue further terms of probation until the criminal investigation is complete. 
The Ann Arbor Police Department has identified two male suspects, one in each case. Joe Burke, chief assis­tant prosecuting attorney, said the 
IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY 
Profs concerned about free speech 
As professors receive criticism for statements made since Sept. 11, questions are beginning to surface about the importance of the freedom of speech on campuses. But so far, the classroom First Amendment rights of fac­ulty have not been challenged in regard to the terrorist attacks at Iowa State. Faculty Senate President Max Wortman refuses to negotiate on this constitutional right. "Free speech is extraordinarily important," he said. Wortman said college campuses always have been a place where major events begin. "The university is nor­mally the harbinger of things to come," he said. "What happens on campus is ultimately what happens in society as a whole." If Wortman's statement is true, people across the nation may soon face criticism for anti­American statements and actions. Ben Stone, director of the Iowa Civil Llberties Union, said free speech is vital in the nation's situation. "It's important that in these times. efforts [to censor] be resisted," he said. "There's a natur­al tendency to suppress dissent ... but these are times when all viewpoints need to be considered." 
LOCAL WEATHER 

Q,~,~q~c=Q ~ ~ ~ 
Showers T-storms Rain Flumes Snow Ice Sumy Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via ADociat.,J P18U ~ 
investigation into the sexual assaults, classified as third-degree criminal sexual conduct which is a felony charge punishable up to 15 years in prison. 
Police first received the report Friday from a freshman who said she had been raped while attending an dance at the Beta Theta Pi house. She also said she believed someone may have put some type of drug in her drink. Burke said Thursday that no charges have been filed against either suspect. 
Beta Theta Pi ·may also go before the Greek Activities Review Panel for potential charges of misconduct. 
"I think this is a real call to action that we as a greek community need to re-evaluate how we hold our social functions," Hustvedt said. 
HARVARD UNIVERSITY 
Student alleges abuse by police 
In the wake of a Harvard University junior's recent allegations that a Boston Police Department (BPD) sergeant beat him up, another charge of improper conduct against officers from the same police station has emerged. Undergraduate Matthew Cole and his lawyer say they are preparing to file charges against BPD in response to a black eye Cole allegedly suffered in a police raid of a party at his home. Cole was arrested with each of his four roommates for "keep­ing a disorderly house" and "disturbing the peace." They were taken to the station together in a BPD paddy wagon. Cole alleges that he •got a black eye because officers purposely "slammed the gas pedal like we were on a drag strip and later slammed the brake," causing him to be thrown around in the back with the other prisoners. Capt. William Evans said that "there's no safety in paddy w~gons. You get bounced around in there no matter what." In addition to the claim of physical abuse, Cole claims he was . verbally harassed during the arrest. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 

Atlanta  76  54  Las Vegas  82  60  Portland  65  48  
Baltimore  65  55  Memphis  68  54  Sacramento  72  58  
Boston  70  56  Milwaukee  52  36  St Louis  64  55  
Chicago  63  58  New York  61  51  Tampa  72  54  
Houston  82  69  Philadelphia  64  52  Washington DC 65  54  

r 
Monday, November 5, 200I 
The Observer . NEWS page 3 
UNITED KINGDOM 
Coalition prepares for election 
Associated Press 
BELFAST 

Northern Ireland's governing coalition prepared Sunday to elect new Protestant and Catholic leaders, rescuing their power-sharing government just when it appeared on the verge of collapse. 
"Tomorrow can be the day when all of the pro-agreement parties together cross the Rubicon," said Martin McGuinness, the former Irish Republican Army commander who today serves as Northern Ireland's education minister. 
But the difficulty of striking a lasting peace was underscored by a car bombing in Birmingham, England on Saturday that police blamed on an IRA splinter group. Officers said the explosion, which caused no serious injuries, was a "substantial" bomb that failed to detonate fully. 
Detectives said a coded tele­phone warning and the nature of the attack pointed to the Real IRA, which split with the IRA over the 1997 cease-fire that led to the Protestant-Catholic government. 
Meanwhile Sunday, another divisive part of the province's 1998 peace accord -the reshaping of the predominantly Protestant police force, which the IRA spent decades trying to destroy -took historic steps forward. 
At hundreds of police bar­racks, entrance signs were 
changed to remove the words 
"Royal Ulster Constabulary," 
the force's name since Northern 
Ireland's founding as a 
Protestant-majority state in 
1921. A new neutral-sounding 
name, "Police Service of 
Northern Ireland," went up. 
Most Protestants oppose the name change, complaining it comes too close to meeting IRA goals. But the IRA-linked Sinn Fein party has refused to take part in a new civilian board overseeing the reforms, com­plaining they don't go far enough. 
While the politicians bickered, the first class of 4 7 Police Service recruits -among them 24 Catholics -attended their first day of training. They form the vanguard of a 50-50 recruiting process that is designed to make the force 30 percent Catholic within the next decade. 
Following a weekend of politi­cal efforts to outmaneuver Protestant hard-liners, Ulster Unionist Party chief David Trimble is expected to win re­e le c ti on Monday as leader of the province's four-party coali­tion government. The same vote would give Mark Durkan, a moderate Catholic, the No. 2 Cabinet post. 
Protestant hard-liners within the 108-seat legislature dealt th~ government a potentially lethal blow Friday by marshal­ing just enough votes to block Trimble's return to office. By doing so they hoped to bring 
down the entire 12-member 
Cabinet, which includes 
McGuinness and another mem­
ber of Sinn Fein. 
Instead in a move 
Trimble's Protestant opponents 
vowed to fight in court ­
Britain persuaded the small, 
neutral Alliance party to trans­
fer at least some of its lawmak­
ers into the Protestant voting 
bloc before Monday's vote. 
The election of Trimble and 
Durkan requires majority sup­
port from both the Irish 
Catholic and British Protestant 
sides ofthe house. 
If Trimble emerges victorious Monday, politicians predicted a period of long-overdue political stability. Ever since its creation in December 1999, the coalition has suffered from tensions between Sinn Fein and the Protestants over the IRA's refusal to disarm. 

With British help, Trimble has repeatedly outmaneuvered his uncompromising Protestant critics. But in July he resigned as government leader and warned he wouldn't return unless the IRA started to scrap weapons. 
The IRA complied last week, a breakthrough that launched the battle for Trimble's re-election. 
The Protestant hard-liners led by Ian Paisley's Democratic Unionist Party recruited two Ulster Unionist lawmakers into their camp to defeat Trimble on Friday. They insisted Monday's vote would be illegal, given that Britain had long said Saturday. 
SF votes on keeping power server PG&E 
Associated Press 

SAN FRANCISCO 
In the wake of this year's 
California power woes, 
voters in the hometown of 
the state's largest utility 
will decide Tuesday 
whether to seize Pacific 
Gas & Electric Co. 's local 
electricity network and 
deliver power through a 
public agency. 

Like many Californians, San Franciscans endured rolling blackouts earlier this year, and they face the nation's third-highest elec­tric rates. 
But cities that already have municipal power, including Los Angeles and Sacramento, largely were spared blackouts and their residents pay as much as 30 percent less than PG&E's customers. 
"There is no question that public power gives the consumer a lower utility bill," said Angela Alioto, legal counsel for the Municipal Utility District (MUD Now!) campaign. 
Advocates say public util­ities are more responsive to consumers because they don't have shareholders and corporate-sized pay-· checks. 
PG&E calls the concept flawed, and is spending more than $1 million to defeat the twin proposi­
tions I and F. It calls the proposal "too risky," espe­cially after the Sept. 11 attacks. 
"You're taking on a huge responsibility without any benefit because buying the system doesn't give you any more power, it just changes the ownership," said Jon Kaufman, head of the No on F&I campaign 
financed  by  the  parent  
PG&E Corp.  
Preventing  a  public  

power victory in the city of 777,000 voters could help the utility stop other cities -including San Jose, San Diego and Davis -from taking up the public power banner. 
The public power cam­paign's spending has been dwarfed by PG&E's. Alioto and other utility critics say the anti-MUD spending campaign is shameful, since PG&E owes its credi­tors billions and taxpayers and customers will likely end up paying more when the utility emerges from bankruptcy court reorgani­zation. · 
The utility is expected to fight in court all efforts to take over its assets using powers of eminent domain. 
"It's only prudent for any company to fight measures that seek a hostile takeover of your assets." said PG&E spokeswoman Jennifer Ramp. 

Apply Today to be President· of THE SHIRT 2002 
This is your opportunity to coordinate the biggest student tradition of the year! 
Applicatiqns can be picked up outside the Student Activities Office in Lafortune and must be returned to Student Activities by Nov. 9, 2001. 
For more information contact Scott Palko at spalko@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer . NEWS Monday, November 5, 200 I 
AFGHANISTAN 
Curry celebrates birthday in prison 
Associated Press 
KABUL 

Dayna Curry celebrated her 30th birthday Sunday -and marked her 93rd day in a jail in Afghanistan along with seven other foreigners accused of preaching Christianity in this devoutly Muslim country. 
lier mother, Nancy Cassell of Thomp~,m's Station. Tenn. ­waiting in neighboring Pakistan -said she had sent a package with a cake and candles for Curry that should arrive soon at the two-story prison where her daughter is held in the Afghan capital, Kabul. 
Abd urahman Hottak, the Taliban's consulate department . chief, said packages from the loved ones of all eight prisoners would be delivered. "That's good news," said Cassell, con­tacted by telephone. "There are just a. wh olc bunch of small things for them to have fun vvith." 
At the prison, surrounded by high dirty-white cement wall and barbed wire. the windows have rusted steel bars. The gate· to the compound is gray steel, with a small opcnin'g that requires anyone entering to hunch over. 
But thP guards. sitting on broken chairs at the entrance to the detention center. are friendly. There is a steel bed as well. but without a mattress. On<~ of the guards. Amir Jan, smiles and says the prisoners are in good health. 
"They are very good. strong. Sometimes they are singing. They get only good food from the restaurant and they don't even drink the water here. They get mineral water from the market," says Jan, wrap­ping himself in the traditional woolen shawl worn bv most Afghan men during the cold winter months. 
The pounding of the U.S.-led aerial bombardment can at times be heard from the Kabul prisqn. 
Curry and another American, Heather Mercer, are both employees of the German-based Shelter N<>W International orga­nization. They were arrested on Aug. 3. The others -four Germans and two Australians -were arrested two days later. They were charged, along with 16 Afghan employee·s of Shelter Now International, with propagating Christianity. 
Curry's mother, Cassell. said she hoped someone would be able to get letters out from her daughter. She hasn't heard from Curry since Oct. 22. when the workers· Pakistani lawyer, Atif Ali Khan, returned from Afghanistan with letters. 
John Mercer, of Vienna, Va., the father of 24-year-old Heather Mercer, said it's worri­some to be out of touch with his daughter. 
The elder Mercer, who spent two ,vccks in the Afghan capi­tal, was evacuated from Kabul, along with Cassell, on Sept. 13 --two days after the terrorist attacks on the \Vorld Trade Center and the Pentagon because the U.S. government feared for their safety. 
It broke their hearts to leave behind their children, whom they saw for the last time on the evening of Sept. 11. 
Mercer's mother, Deborah Oddy, had arrived that day and saw her daughter only once before being evacuated. She too is in Pakistan keeping a vigil for her daughter. 
Mercer said he pleaded with the Taliban to free his daughter and take him instead. 

Sminute~.A 
from CIUTPCIIIT Campus lllllll[T!E1.[a
Cold Weather Experts 
Call 259-1000 for more details 
Notre Dame Film., Television, and Theatre presents 

Atl<)rs l.-,r<llll Tl1t) lj_)Jl(1<ltl Slclgl' AMidsummer Night's Dream 
c.1. o ,, ,. h y Wi I I i a m 8 h a k e s p e a r e 

Thursday, November 8 .................. 7:30 p.m. Friday, November 9 ....................... 7:30 p.m. Saturday, November 1 0 ............... 7:30 p.m. 
Playing at Riley High School • Reserved Seats $16 Seniors $14 • All Students $1 2 
Tickets available at Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-81 28. 
Shuttle Service Available 
SOA 
continued from page 1 

ter further, according to Bourgeois. 
"I feel as though they [the bishops! do not have the courage to speak out and they need to step down," said Bourgeois. . 
The watch had been in the national spotlight earlier this year when twenty four of' 
closure of the school and other related issues. 
Several congressional mem­bers who once opposed shut­ting down the SOA have now changed their minds due to the overflow of letters from their constituents. Two years ago the House voted to stop the funding for the SOA. but this bill was defeated in a Senate committee. 
Last January, Congress voted to change the name to the Western Hemisphere Institute 
about the 3000 who walked passed the gate of Fort Benning at last year's non-violent protest were sent to prison and given sen­tences rang­ing from one month to a year. 
These pro-for Security Operation. but

"As people offaith, we 
Bourgeois are called to be healers commented 
and peacemakers. There that this was 
only a name
is no clear-cut road to 
change not an 
peace It's made by ideology walking. Now more than change. 
Currently,
ever we must walk that 
II o u s e
road to peace. ,, Resolution 1810 calls for the closing of
Father Roy Bourgeois 
the school. but
SOA Watch founder 
in light of the Sept. 11 annual non-violent protest in November outside of the Army base in Fort Benning. 
Bourgeois said that now more than ever the public has to Work towards ending vio­lence and terrorism. With this in mind, over 10,000 partici­pants will come together at Fort-Benning Nov. 16-18, including a delegation from Notre Dame. 
The format of this year's prott~st will change ~lightly due to the heightened state of seru­rity 'at military bases. It will include teach-ins, masses. spf}akcrs. and vigils. 
This year the non-violent protest will not be able, to be held outside the gates of the fort, instead it will take place at Benning Park, and the solemn funeral procession remembering the victims of violence in J,atin America will not be able to cross the gates of the army base. 
"As people of' faith. we an~ called to be healers and peace­makers. There is no clear-cut road to peace. It's made by walking. Now more than ever we must walk that road to peace," said Bourgeois. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at downes.4@nd.edu 

testors are active within the watch from prison by writing letters and conducting several national news interviews. 
Each spring, the group goes to Washington to lobby fr>r the 
attacks, Bourgeois said that it is diffi­cult to get the attention of the Congressional leaders. 
The Sept. 11 attacks have affected the SOA Watch's 
Schmuhl gets extra duties at WNDU 
Special to The Observer 

Notre Dame faculty member Robert Schmuhl, a frequent contributor to various newspapers, including the Chicago Tribune, \Va"ihington Post and USA Today, will add news analysis on a vari­ety of contemporary issues to his NewsCenter 1(, responsibilities or WNDU-TV, the South Bend NBC alliliate owned by the University. 
Schmuhl. an American studies professor and director of the Galvin Program in Journalism. Ethics and Democracy, has added insight and depth to NewsCenter 16's election coverage for several years. In his expaned role, he will appear exclusively on the station newscasts to provide analysis and commentary on issues facing the nation today. accoring to Ellen Crooke, \VNDU­'IV's news director. · 
Schmuhl is the author of nine books and a nationally knmvn speaker. His most recent book. "Indecent Liberties," was selectfid by the Chicago Triburn~ as one of the 40 notable works of non­fiction in 2000. 
"Professor Schmuhl's tremendous lt\aching and research experience will make our newscasts more interesting and give our viewers a deepPr insight into important issues facing all or our lives," Crooke said. "\Ve are thrilled to have him as part of our team." 


ATI 

Monday, November 5, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
'Great' train robber in hospital: 
Ronnie Biggs, the ailing former fugitive serving a prison sentence for Britain's "Great Train Robbery," was in a London hospital Sunday for the fourth time since his arrest in May, his fam­ily said. Biggs was taken Friday from London's top-security Belmarsh prison to the nearby Queen Elizabeth Hospital. A hospital spokesman described his condition as stable and said he was comfortable. 
Italy offers military support: The United States has accepted Italy's offer of mili­tary support in the campaign against terrorism, officials said Sunday. Italy has offered an armored regiment, attack helicopters and fight­er jets. In all, some 1,000 Italian servicemen could be deployed, Defense Minister Antonio Martino told parliament last month. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS ­
Anthrax found in NY mayor's office: 
Traces of anthrax were reported Sunday on a package sent from NBC to the New York mayor's oflice and at a Veterans Affairs' hospi­tal in Washington. Health investigators were stymied in efforts to find the source of anthrax that killed a New York woman, but experts said they were relieved that no new cases linked to her unique exposure have surfaced. 
Police arrest man at O'Hare: A 27­year-old man carrying seven knives and a stun gun was arrested trying to board a flight at O'Hare International Airport, police said Sunday. Subash Gurung, a Nepal native, was arrested Saturday night prior to boarding a United Airlines flight to Omaha, Neb., said police spokesman Thomas Donegan. He was charged with unlawful use of a weapon and attempting to board an aircraft with weapons, both misde­meanor charges. Gurung was released from custody at 4:30 a.m. Sunday. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Gun permit applications increase: There have been an increased number of gun permit applications filed in Indiana since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, but state police offi­cials say that may just be a coincidence. "We've definitely had an increase. We're getting approximately 200 to 300 more a day," Bruce Bryant, supervisor of the state police firearm section, told the South Bend Tribune. What had been a waiting period of four to six weeks has expanded to 12 to 15 weeks. Officials, said how­ever, that the state issued a high number of permits in 1997 that are now being renewed. 
Market Watch November 2 

Dow 
9,323.54 +59.64 

Jones 

Composite Same: 
Volume: 228 NIA 
AMEX: 824.20 -4.41 NASDAQ: 1,745.73 -0.57 NYSE: 557.60 +1.64 S&P 500: 1,087.20 +3.10 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) +5.54 +0.60 11.44 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -2.27 -0.40 17.26 NASDAQ 100 INDEX (QQQ) +B. 7 4 +0. 26 3 5. 60 INTEL CORP (INTC) +1.39 +0.36 26.30 JUNIPER NETWORK (JNPR) -11.13 -2.44 19.48 
CUBA 

Associated Press 
HAVANA 

Powerful Hurricane Michelle slammed into Cuba's coast Sunday pack­ing winds up to 135 mph and headed toward the country's premier tourist resort as the communist government evacuated more than a half-million people from low-lying areas. 
Heavy surf pounded beaches in the lower Florida Keys, which fore­casters say will likely be brushed by Michelle's winds after it slices cross­wise through Cuba. 
With 135 mph winds and a death toll of 12 already in Honduras, Nicaragua and 
Jamaica, the storm had 
local relief oflicials worried. 
"We are afraid that it will be our Mitch," said Virginia Huergo, relief coordinator for the Cuban Red Cross, referring to the hurricane that ravaged Central America in 1998. 
"We are prepared for the worst," she said. 
The International Red Cross in Geneva reported that 24,500 Red Cross vol­unteers in Cuba were help­ing communist authorities in evacuation efforts. About 560,000 residents had been evacuated -mostly to the homes of friends or family -and 66,000 were in shel­ters. 
Michelle made landfall around 4 p.m. EST on the Zapata Peninsula, on Cuba's southern coast in the central province of Matanzas near the Bay of Pigs, about 70 miles south­east of Havana, home to 2 million of Cuba's 11 million citizens. It was moving northeast, putting Cuba's premier vacation resort, Varadero, near its path. 
Thousands of the island's 72,000 people had been moved from their homes to more secure shelter, and all electricity on the island had been shut off as a safety measure, Cuban television said. 
Throughout. the day, Michelle had spread heavy rains over Cuba as it neared the island's coast. Accumulations of 10 to 20 inches were expected in its path. Earlier, state televi­sion showed winds whip­ping palm trees along a deserted street on the Isle of Youth off the main island's southern coast. 
The storm was not expected to strike Florida directly, but forecasters said winds of 7 5 mph or more could reach the keys late Sunday or Monday. 
Gov. Jeb Bush declared a state of emergency Saturday, and a mandatory evacuation order was issued for all of the Florida Keys ori Sunday. 
"It's going to be close," said Stacy Stewart, a hurri­cane specialist at the U.S. National Hurricane Center in Miami. 

ISRAEL 
Military begins leaving West Bank 
Associated Press 
TEL AVIV 

Israel began pulling out of a West Bank town early Monday, the mili­tary said, more than two weeks after invading six towns after Palestinian militants assassinated an Israeli Cabinet minister. 
The Israeli forces were withdraw­ing a few hundred yards to the edge of Palestinian-controlled territory in the town of Qalqilya and into Israel, the military said. 
The planned withdrawal went ahead despite an attack in Jerusalem Sunday by a Palestinian gunman who opened fire on a bus, 
killing two and wounding more than 
40. 

The U.S. government had demand­ed repeatedly that Israel pull its forces out of the West Bank towns it took over after ulltranationalist Israeli Tourism Minister Rehavam Zeevi was assassinated on Oct. 17 by . militants from the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine. The group said the move was revenge for Israel's killing of PFLP leader Mustafa Zibri. 
The United States is concerned that the increased Mideast tension could interfere with its effort to bring moderate Arab nations into its coalition to fight the Taliban regime and accused terrorist leader Osama bin Laden in Afghanistan. 
A week ago, Israel withdrew its troops from Bethlehem. the most sensitive of the locations Israel invaded, because it is the traditional birthplace of Jesus. Israeli forces a1so le ft Beit Ja11 a. next to Bethlehem. 
Israel still holds parts of three other Palestinian towns Tulkarem, Jenin and Hamallah, the West Bank center of Yasser Arafat's Palestinian Authority, \vhich governs the areas under Palestinian control. 

page 6 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Monday, November 5, 2001 
FBI detain 3 under anthrax suspesion 
Associated Press 
TRENTON 

FBI agents have detained at least three people in the past week for questioning from neigh­borhoods 
near the ..We aretreating it right 
Trenton-area 
now as an isolated 

post office 
incident. ,,

linked to the nation's anthrax cont­Tony Espositoamination. 
postal inspection service 

All  three  
were  turned  
over  the  

Immigration and Naturalization Service. One of the men, taken into custody Friday, said he was questioned about anthrax. 
Information that led agents to at least two apartments in the area was developed dur­ing the search for the person who mailed the anthrax-con­taminated letters traced to the Trenton postal process­ing center. Investigators, however, have found no direct link between the Sept. 11 terror attacks, the anthrax and the apartment raids, officials said. 
"At this point we have no information that links the 
beyond that." There was no 
t W 0 
searches," F B I spokes­woman Sandra Carroll s a i d Saturday. "I can't be more spe­cific or elaborate 
additional 
comment Sunday. 
Previously, the FBI had said that 31 people had been detained in New Jersey, all picked up after Sept. 11. None had been charged with criminal offenses directly related to those attacks. Nationally about 1,000 peo-

Earn ahighly regarded nliana university Master of Professional Aa:ountancy degree 
• Become one of our high~ sought graduates 

• Prestigious Indiana University degree on the IUPUI campus 
•All majors accepted 

• Convenient times; part-time or ful~time; 12-24 month completion 
•Specialize in financial reporting, taxation, auditing, informotion systems, management consulting 
•Internationally recognized facul~ 
For more information contact: 
(317) 278-3885 mpabus@iupui.edu http://bus.iupui.edu 

~ ~
KEllIY 

~oc!,[e,11
School of Business 

Indianapolis IUPUI 


ple have been taken into detergent, Esposito said. custody. The Pakistani national 
Meanwhile, an official 

said Sunday "At this point we have no there was lit­information that links the tle question 
two together. " 
that an enve­lope contain­

Sandra Carrol
ing cyanide a n d FBI spokeswoman 
addressed to a northern New Jersey police department was a domestic act with no connec­tion to the anthrax crimes. The envelope was found late Friday at Newark's main post office. 
"We are just treating it right now as an isolated inci­dent," said Tony Esposito of the Postal Inspection Service. 
The envelope, picked out by an alert postal worker looking for possible anthrax contamination, contained trace amounts of copper cyanide blended into laundry 

Chaudry, from 
taken into custody at an apart­m e n t Friday was identified by a broth­er as Allah Rakha. 
He called his broth­er, Ilyas 
a jail cell on 
Saturday and said he still had no idea why he was picked up and questioned about anthrax, Chaudry said. 
Chaudry said he also didn't know why federal agents spent more than six hours interrogating him, his broth­er and two other men. FBI agents asked them about their mail, magazine sub­scriptions and prescription pills in the apartment. 
Chaudry, 34, a cab driver, said FBI agents knocked on 
their door Friday morning, asked for his brother and asked questions about anthrax. 
"They said anthrax, and something about INS," Chaudry said. 
Postal inspectors took mail from the house and also inspected a letter box about 30 feet from the front door, he said. 
Chaudry said the Flll agents asked where he went to college, and whether he took chemistry or biology classes in high school or col­lege. 
Carroll would not give details about the search of the brothers' apartment except to confirm FBI agents had targeted the residence. 
On Oct. 29, two men living in Hamilton, a few miles from the postal processing center, were detained after a search of their apartment. 
The FBI also turned them over to the INS, a spokes­woman said. 


-, 
Monday, November 5, 2001 page 7 
The Observer . BUSINESS NEWS 
Businesses slash 415,000 jobs in October 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Perry Esposito didn't need a government report to tell him the jobs are disappearing. 
The auto mechanic -cut from the payroll at TWA last month even as he was consoling his fiancee, an American Airlines flight attendant also fresh out of work -has already met face-to­face \-\ith the new economic real­ity. 
"I saw grown men cry -50­year-old men with a balance on their mortgage and one or two kids in college," Esposito says of 
• the scene Oct. 7. when he and his co-workers at John F. Kennedy International Airport were sent home for good. 
"I could walk into another air­line and they'd normally be happy to have my skills. But I can't go apply at another airline because they're in the same situ­ation," says Esposito, of Baldwin, 
N.Y. 
The tough news for Esposito and others prospecting for jobs is that they are far from alone. Businesses slashed 415,000 jobs in October. the largest monthly cut in payrolls in more than 21 years. the Labor Department reported Friday. 
The cuts punished workers in the airline industry, battered by the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. But they also reached far beyond to nearly every sector of the econo­my, from manufacturing to retailing to technology. That pushed the unemployment rate to 5.4 percent last month, up from 4.9 percent in September, the highest since December 1996. 
The October surge was fed by a nonstop series of layoff bulletins that piled up throughout the month -including 6,000 jobs cut announced by Sprint Corp. , 11,000 at auto parts supplier Dana Corp.. 3,000 at Unisys Corp. and 4,900 at Sears, Roebuck and Co. 
The spike in unemployment was far worse than analysts had expected and compounds the 213,000 job cuts reported in September and 54,000 in August. 
But the numbers, sobering as they are, tell just half the story. For the other half, the human side, listen to people like 
Esposito, or to Bob Pryor of 
Canton, Ohio, who works in a 
factory that will soon be shut­
tered. 
''I've been here 22 years. I started on my 18th birthday ­Sept. 24, 1979," says Pryor, whose employer, Ansell Healthcare Products, is closing its Massillon latex glove factory this month. Of the 200 workers at the plant, about half have worked there at least 20 years, he says. 
Pryor said he does not know yet whether he will get severance pay, and he said the company has not yet offered job training or assistance to find other work. 
"I don't know what I'll do,'' he said. "But I'll find another job. The way I look at it, they are tak­ing my job, but they're not taking my life." 
Out of work in Las Vegas, Romelda Simon is also struggling to get by. For Simon, who lost her job making change for slot machine players at the Luxor · casino in mid-September,· one of the most difficult parts of losing her job is trying to explain things to her children. 
"My daughter asks if we can go to the movies," said Simon, a 48­
I 

year-old mother of four who found her usual $400 a week plus tips wage cot to a $198 in unemployment benefits. "I have to tell her no. It breaks my heart." 
Simon said she's reduced the food budget and isn't buying new clothes for the three children ­ages 17, 10 and 6 -living with her in her fiance's house. She applied to get them into a subsi­diied school lunch program, but was turned down. 
Other workers who have recently lost jobs say they've also been forced to pare spending and rethink their options. 
Mike Kube, who lost his job as a ramp worker for United Airlines at Seattle's Sea-Tac air­port on Oct. 31, figures he's lucky. He just finished paying off his truck, lives with his mother and his savings account and unemployment checks should keep him going for a while. 
But he's cut back on food, and stays home more at night. 
'Tm kind of in limbo, I'm wait­ing to see what's going to hap­pen," he said. "I know I can't just maintain the same lifestyle and have it just keep going without something other than unemploy­ment." . 
Yoav Shalom. who lost his job as a limousine driver a few weeks ago, is still waiting for $1,400 in back pay. He was relieved when his landlord told him it was OK if he was late ½ith the rent he and his wife pay ­$2,500 a month for a house in suburban Long Island. 
"It's kind of a hard time, but we need to be strong," he said. 
Other recent pink slip recipi­ents express similar determina­tion. But people who've been out of work for many months warn that finding openings is proving very ditlicult, and the newest lay­offs will increase already fierce competition at the few firms that are hiring. ~ 
"It's really tough out there right now. I don't know what to do anymore," said Judy Fuentes of Jersey City. N.J. flipping through a notebook filled with ads for job openings she's pursued since los­ing her job as a cafeteria guest services manager in July. 
''I'll go through all these pages and I'll just send and send and send [resumes] and nobody's bit­ing," said Fuentes. 
Boeing closes plane plant in California 
. Boeing calls it quits in making 717 passenger planes 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 

California's love affair with the car is rivaled only by its love affair with the airplane. 
From 1910, when the first international air meet was held just south of Los Angeles, to the design of the next-generation Joint Strike Fighter, California has played a key role in world aviation history. 
So a decision by the Boeing Co. to end production of its 717 passenger jetliner in Long Beach would have an impact far beyond the jobs lost. The Boeing 717 is the last passen­ger plane built in the state that produced one of the first, the historic DC-1 built by Douglas Aircraft in 1933 for TWA. 
"Since the 1910 Los Angeles County air meet, flight has been a central metaphor for Southern California," said California state historian Kevin Starr. "It's part of the DNA code of Southern California economi­cally." 
Boeing, which inherited the 1OU-seat airplane program when it acquired McDonnell 

THERE Is A WAY. 

Tom Eckert, C.S.C. 2003 Ordination Class
ANSWER :-t. THECALL ~ 
www.nd.edu/-vocation 
Douglas in 1997, said last month it is considering scrap­ping the money-losing line. The company said it will decide the fate of the plane and 4,500 workers at the Long Beach fac­tory that assembles it by the end of the year. 
To be sure, the disappear­ance of commercial airline manufacturing in the state wouldn't signal the end of the aerospace ind ustry here. 
Boeing still remains the lar est
tBfllmBfi::~1+; 
. 
$po~wear 
.· , ; ' ,.. .
i /i·;-Yr·'°F'f i'0' /){ )-$-f /~·, 1 . 11·
!.(...£;}< t ;) l , )(. ..J.t.~~ {i.t.lJJ !--~ i.. 
Sm,~iute~ from CIU-naCIIIT 
Campus~
ColdW..thM'~ 
private employer in California, and firms such as Northrop Grumman are hiring as they prepare to manufacture the Joint Strike Fighter, the richest defense contract in military his­tory. 
California also remains a cen­ter of research and manufac­turing for satellites, the space program and the military. 
The Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, Lockheed Martin's "Skunk Works" research park in Palmdale and companies in Silicon Valley are all heirs to a tradition pioneered by such names as Glen Curtiss, Jack Northrop and Donald Douglas . 
Even if 717 production is halted, it might be years before current orders are filled and the last jet leaves the produc­tion line. Midwest Express recently placed an order for 20 717s to be delivered one per quarter beginning in 2003. 



page 8 The Observer. NATIONAL NEWS Monday, November 5, 2001 ' 
-.Officials d~tain suspecte9 Al-Qai.da operative
'  .  ~  .  .  
Associated Press  network. At the  time,  neither  jetliner on Sept. 11 crashed into the Pentagon.  that  hijackers through phone con­tacts, Internet communications  at least two of the hijackers. Terbush said the government  

WASHINGTON 

A suspected Al-Qaida opera­tive observed meeting with hijacker Khalid Almihdhar in Malaysia in 2000 has been detained in the Middle East for questioning in connection with prior terrorist attacks, officials said Sunday. 
The man was being ques­tioned by intelligence agents about his possible contact with the hijacker, his suspected involvement in the USS Cole bombing and a foiled plot to bomb a hotel in Jordan filled with Americans during the mil­lennium celebrations, officials said. 
The man was videotaped by Malaysian security authorities in a January 2000 meeting with Almihdhar and other support­ers of Osama bin Laden and his Almihdhar nor the man now in custody were known to be con­nected to terrorism. Officials did not provide the man's name. They said he has not been charged with any offense. 
However, the meeting took on new significance this past sum­mer when information devel­oped in the bombing of the Cole suggested the man now being held in the Middle East might have been connected to the plot, officials said. 
The CIA in August then placed Almihdhar and one of his associates, Nawaf Alhazmi, on a terrorist watch list, but immigration officials discovered the two soon-to-be-hijackers were already in the United States, officials said. 
Almihdhar and Alhazmi weren't located before they boarded an American Airlines 
The man recently detained is "very important" because he's a midlevel operative in the al­Qartla network, said a retired intelligence official. 
He was ·arrested in the Gulf region within the past two weeks and was taken to Jordan, where he's being inter­rogated, said the official. speak­ing on condition of anonymity. 
The official added that the man is linked to three terrorist operations: the Millenium bombing at the Radisson hotel in Jordan, the Cole bombing and, now, the Sept. 11 attacks by virtue of his being video­taped in Malaysia with two of the hijackers. 
The arrest of the suspected al-Qaida operative in the Middle East comes as the CIA and FBI continue to seek out and detain people linked to the and financial transactions. 
Federal prosecutors say a Pakistani man who was detained in Detroit and is being held on a voter registration fraud charge in North Carolina has been connected by evidence to two of the Sept. 11 hijackers. 
Intiaz Ahmed Siddiqui, 31, was arrested in the Detroit area and was indicted last Tuesday by a federal grand jury in Greensboro, N.C., on one count of voter registration fraud, according to Lynn Clower, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Attorney's office. 
"He said he was a U.S. citizen when indeed he was a citizen of Pakistan," Clower said. 
During a detention hearing last week in Detroit, Assistant 
U.S. Attorney Jane Terbush said the government had infor­mation that linked Siddiqui to considers it a "very, very seri­ous matter." 
Attorney Neil DeBlois, who is representing Siddiqui, said 'Friday his client has been held since Sept. 22 on a relatively minor charge just so the gov­ernment can try to build a case of terrorism against him. 
DeBlois said his client is an electrical engineer who came into the United States legally in July 2000 for work. He was employed in California and recently accepted a job in Grand Rapids. 
In a seven..page affidavit pro­vided to DeBlois, an FBI agent wrote that Siddiqui visited an Internet travel site at the same time as one of the hijackers, and the pair may have commu­nicated, DeBlois said. He said the affidavit "reads like a cheap novel." 

Union leader arrested in fire fighter rally 
ing himself in. Hundreds of firefighters came ecutors reduced or dropped the approached by police after he
Associated Press 
Kevin Gallagher, president of out to protest a change in city charges against them on held a news conference the Uniformed Firefighters policy that limits the number of Saturday. Union officials said Saturday afternoon to protest
NEW YORK 

Association, was charged with Fire Department members Sunday that city officials and the arrests of firefighters at theThe city fire officers union 
trespassing late Saturday for helping to recover the remains police commanders are now rally.
president surrendered to police trying to cross a police barrier of World Trade Center attack targeting their leaders. , "In the mayor's view, these
Sunday to face a trespassing 
at a rally at the World Trade victims. "The only reason that Capt. men are heroes as long as theycharge, the second union leader Center site. Firefighters tangled with Gorman is being arrested is shut up and do what they're
arrested for a scuffle with 
Union officials said the police as they tried to march because he had the temerity to told," Rabinowitz said. 
police during a firefighters rally arrests of Gorman and past a barricade near the trade criticize the mayor," said Firefighters have taken issuelast week. 
Gallagher came after police center. Five police officers were Steven Rabinowitz, an attorney with a new policy that restricts"I'm outraged. I don't think detectives reviewed videotape injured. for the Uniformed Fire Officers the number of firefighters andI'm guilty of anything," Capt. 
of Friday's rally. Police refused Twelve firefighters were Association. police officers at the scene toPeter Gorman said before turn-to comment. arrested Friday, although pros-Rabinowitz said Gorman was 25 from each department. 
If you were a Notre ~a1ne professor, what would you say in your... 


You are cordially invited to the inaugural presentation of the Last Lecture Series for the 2001­2002 acaden,ic year. 
Rev. Hugh Page, Jr., Ph.D. 
Associate Professor o-f Theology Director:, African-Arnerican Studies 
Monday~ Novernber 5 7ptn Pasquerilla East Lounge 
REFRESHMENTS WILL BE SERVED 
SPONSORED BY P.E., KNOTT HALL, AND YOUR STUDENT 
GOVERNMENT~ 

Monday, November 5, 2001 
The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC 
Presidential guards clash with General troops 
for applying to study abroad programs 
0 find the application at: www.nd.edu/~intlstud0 questions: 631-5882 152 Hurley 
0 0 
00000000000000000000000 

~aturday, November 10 (f~\ Noon-Rolf~ ~port~ Recreation Center~ 
OPEN TO ALL NOTRE DAME STUDENTS 3 ON 3 PLUS GOALIE ONE DIVISION 

RJNK IS WALLED AND NElTED REGISTER ATEAM AT RECSPORTS SlGN-UPS BEGIN MONDAY. I0/29 /: --::::,. 

DEADLINE IS FRJDAY. 11/9 !. l " /, LIMITED TO THE FIRST 8 TEAMS TO ENTE~ 1 ' 1 NO REFEREES WILL BE PROVIDED -/ SINGLE ELIMINATION 
for ~ore Information Call Rec~porl~ at l-6IOO 


.
0 . 

0 
0 
0 0 0 0 
International Study Programs 
Reminds Students of 
the deadline of 
Dec. 1, 2001 
SPAIN 
Officals investigate deaths 
Associated Press 
MADRID 

The Spanish Health Ministry released a preliminary report Sunday that it said established a connection between the deaths of 11 kidney patients and a U.S. company's dialysis instrument. 

Baxter International Inc. dia­lyzers were involved in the . deaths in mid-August at hospi­tals in Madrid, Valencia and Barcelona, according to the report, which the ministry is to make official this week. 
"There is a clear relation between the dialyzer and the deaths," said Garcia Lopez, an epidemiologist who worked on the ministry report presented Sunday at the annual meeting of the Association to Combat Kidney Diseases. 
The dialyzer is a device that filters waste from the blood before it is returned to patients suffering kidney failure. 
Garcia Lopez said autopsies have been completed on five of the 11 patients, and that each one died of multiorganic col­lapse, which is not common 
Office 
among kidney patients. He said all the deaths took place between 15 minutes and seven hours after a dialysis session. 
Earlier this month, Deerfield. Ill.-based Baxter said an inde­pendent investigation found no connection between the deaths at the hospitals in Madrid and Valencia, but the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and Baxter said last week that they were reviewing the deaths of 51 patients who used six models of dialysis filters that Baxter recalled worldwide last month. 
Forty-seven  of  the  deaths  
occurred overseas.  
Relatives  of  some  of  the  

Spanish patients who died have sued Baxter in a Spanish court. 
Officials at Baxter did not immediately return a call on Sunday seeking comment. 

Associated Press 
BANGUI 

Presidential guard units and soldiers loyal to the Central African Republic's former army chief of staff clashed in the capital on Sunday, a day after govern­ment forces tried to arrest the ousted general. 
Government units fired 
mortars toward the northern sections of Bangui, where about 300 soldiers loyal to Gen. Francois Bozize -who was fired from his post two weeks ago -had taken up positions on ,Saturday. Intermittent clashes contin­ued through the day. 
Bozize loyalists advanced a few miles south with rifles, rocket launchers and mor­tars. taking the strategic Ngola bridge, which links the northern and southern parts of the city and was previously held by the presidential guard. 
Witnesses said Bozize's sol­diers seemed to be moving toward President Ange-Felix Patasse 's resid enc e. They were 1 1/2 miles from his villa by nightfall. Libyan troops, flown in to help quell a failed coup attempt in May, 
were seen guarding Patasse's residence. 
A resident said at least one woman was killed after being hit by a stray bullet. A hospi­tal employee said two chil­dren were seriously wounded. 
Patasse's government accuses Bozize of helping plan the May coup attempt, which led to a week of battles between mutineers and loyal­ist soldiers. Bozize denies the 
charges. 
Bozize led military opera­tions that put down the May coup attempt, keeping Patasse in power. He also defended Patasse's govern­ment during army mutinies in 1996 and 1997. 
Patasse has held power since he won elections in 1993, ending the 12-year mil­itary dictatorship of Gen. Andre Kolingba. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Monday, November 5, 2001

page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Pat Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadter SCF.NE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MA.Ry's EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING......... , ........................... 631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EmToRIAssT. ME.................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS.......................................................... 631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 

VIEWPOINT................................................. 631-5303 observer .viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS............................................... ' ......... 631-4S43 observer .spores. l@nd.edu SCENE...............................:.........................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................ 631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS................. 631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 

minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 

advertise for policies 
online features for spe­

and rates ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 

archives to search for 
about The Observer 

articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
staff

August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's 
College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by polic;ies of the administration ofeither 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
• possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors.· Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners ro the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Observerpolicies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefMike Connolly. 

Well, it's been almost a month since my last column, and I was all set to write something light-hearted and happy. Lord knows we all need it. So what better way to pitch into a campus-wide catharsis than to once again bleat about my abysmal social life? Or perhaps discuss campus events ­
boy. that Bill Kirk is a riot, ain't he? Just saying Bob Davie's name alone is good for a chuckle. 
Like I said, I was all set to write one of those columns. Then something in my testicles changed all that. 
Yes, I said my testicles. 
I'm serious. 
This is not funny. · 

A little more than four weeks ago, I  
discovered a lump in my left testicle.  Mike Marchand  
For a second, I didn't really think any­ 
thing of it, just that it was kind of an  
odd thing. "Hey, there's a lump in my testicle. Huh. That's weird." Then it hit  Undistinguished  
me, "There's a lump in my testicle ...  Alumnus  
oh, God."  
It's not funny.  

Everyone knows that a man's ... uh, family jewels are both literally and figuratively the essence of his masculini­ty. The best way to get a guy to stand up to his manhood (or to do something incredibly dumb, reckless or illegal) is to challenge his balls. 
But at the same time, men pay very little attention to them. Sure, we're accused of thinking with or being led by our genitalia, but really, so long as everything works when we need them to, men are pretty much happy. So nothing paralyzes a man with fear more than to learn that some­thing may be wrong with Big Rick and the Twins. Sancho and Pancho. That was my reaction. 
It wasn't funny. 
To be honest, the thought of what the lump could be hadn't really entered my mind at that point; just the fact that there was one was enough. But then the c-word popped into my head. That opened the panic floodgates . 
I wasn't scared I was going to die of cancer, even though I've lost both my maternal grandparents to that accursed affliction. Even if the lump was some malignancy, I figure I'd caught it pretty early. I don't constantly manipulate my gonads, but I knew that that lump wasn't there a month before. 
But what if' it was cancerous? Would I lose Lefty? Would I have to check Righty once a week to make sure he wasn't stricken, too? How would my life change? Could I still have children? Would I get a prosthetic testicle? Do they even 
make prosthetic testicles? Could I still be able to have sex? 
Could I even get a woman to have sex with me even if I lost 
a ball ... er, had a testicle removed? (Okay, that last one 
was a little shallow but I did honestly think that. Like I said, 
tell a guy something's wrong with Mr. Happy and he'll be 
scared stiff ... er. crapless.) 
. After a couple hours of such panicking, I realized that just 
because there's a lump doesn't mean it's cancer. Like most 
men, I honestly have no idea how my own reproductive sys­
tem works. I know all the "outside parts" (i.e. the "big 
three"), and I'd like to think I know how to use them really 
well, but the rest of it is a mystery to me. Epididymis? Vas 
deferens? Sound like Roman poets. 
So, for all I knew, the lump could have come from a time 
when I was kicked in the junk when I was 9-years old. And 
even though testicular cancer is the most common cancer 
in men ages 15-35, I figured the odds that something else 
was the problem were pretty good. That realization finally 
brought me back from the brink of going nuts ... er, insane. 
Of course, not everyone I told realized this as quickly as I 
did. For a while, it was a little uncomfortable having so 
many people being preoccupied with what was going on in 
my scrotum. In fact, I almost didn't write this because I 
don't want you, the entire Notre Dame community, to have 
that same .wo_rry for me. In a world of terrorism and 
anthrax, the slight possibility of me having testicular cancer 
is nothing to get upset about. I didn't want phone calls, e­-mails or conversations asking about my (esticle. And l cer­
tainly didn't want prayers to be offered at the Grotto on 
behalf of Lefty, either. I'm sure God has more important 
things He has to deal with, too. 
So, I got it checked out. Yes, I hi.td my testes tested. And 
after a battery of exams that were somewhat uncomfort­
able to endure, we're pretty sure it's not cancer. So, there's 
a happy ending and none of you have anything to worry 
about. · 
Okay, I lied. It is kind of funny, but only because it turned 
out not to be serious. And I have to laugh about it. I got 
spooked a little, but hopefully I'll be stronger for it. 
And so will Rick, Sancho and Pancho. 
1\1ike Marchand, class of2001, will soon begin writing for 
RealClearPolitics and The Politix Group. Unfortunately. 
he's not getting paid for either. But maybe ifhe's asked, he 
can be persuaded to tell the longer version of this story as 
part ofa comedy routine. Interested offers can be sent by e­
mail to Marchand.3@nd.edu. "Undistinguished Alumnus" 
appears every other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the 
author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 

Myra McGriff Jason McFarley Kelly Hager 
Sports 

Noah Amstadtet' 
Viewpoint 

Kurt Bogaard 
Scene 
C. Spencer Beggs 
Graphics 
Katie McKenna 
Production 
Katie McVoy 
Lab Tech 
Peter Richardson 

· POLL QUESTION 
Should The Shirt be the same shade of green every year? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The American system ofours, call it Americanism, call it Capitalism, call it what you like, gives each and every one of us a great opportunity ifwe only seize it with both hands and make the most ofit." 
Al Capone gangster 
THE 
OBSERVER 


Monday, November 5, 2001 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Green shirts about more than school spirit 
I admit it. During Saturday's football game against Tennessee. I was one of those who did not heed the call to cre­ate a "sea of green" in Notre Dame Stadium. I wore The Shirt as a show of solidarity with both the football team and the students of this University. As a member of student government, one might have expected to see me sup­porting a "student led" effort to wear kelly green. However, it is my position in student government that allowed me to learn the real story behind the green campaign. Sad to say, I found that the real motivation behind the movement was not the unification of Notre Dame fans, but rather simple corporate greed. 
On Monday, I learned that Robert Pazornik and a group of off-campus seniors had decided to push for every­one in the stadium -students, alumni and South Bend residents -to wear a single color to combat the Volunteer orange. This color was blue. The rationale was simple -the student body already had The Shirt, and almost everyone has a blue shirt in their closets somewhere. For those who came to campus in another color, a blue campaign would promote sales of The Shirt. This in turn would benefit the students of the University, as pro­ceeds from The Shirt are split between student-run clubs and an emergency student aid fund. 
These students approached Director of Athletics Kevin White with a coher­ent plan to publicize the "wearing of the blue" to those in the South Bend community and to alumni using a list­serv administered by the Alumni Association. White was impressed by their initiative and pledged athletic department funds to support the cam­paign. 
In the process of obtaining these funds, however, the plan hit a snag. Representatives from the bookstore 
and the adidas Corporation opposed the plan, as they had been planning for some time to mass-market green shirts this weekend. They hadn't yet notified the Athletic Department or White. but apparently their marketing plan was unstoppable. The blue/green conflict went to the University administration, and the decision was made that the stu­dents would only get University funding and listserv access for a unity campaign if they united behind the green shirt proposed by the bookstore and adidas. 
Faced with a choice between green unity and none at all, the stu­dents chose to back the wear­ing of the green, hoping that the bookstore's market­ing plan would be as effective as their own. 
The results of this campaign were seen Saturday. Where was the "sea of green?" The student section was a puddle of green, but there was little support from the 60,000 other Irish fans in the stadium. Why did the cam­paign fail? The answer is simple. I'm not a marketing major, but even I know that beginning to publicize a campaign 24 hours before kickoff is not an effective strategy. For all of its 
Pick a color, any color 
This whole shirt thing is really annoying. First it's buy The Shirt so we can all be blue. Then it's wear pink for breast cancer aware­ness. Now it's buy a new shirt so we can all be green. 
For a University with one of the most intelli­gent student bodies in the world, we are acting pretty dumb. ls it really that hard to pick a color? I don't care what it is, just pick one and everyone else support it. 
In Friday's edition of The Observer the cover said wear green. but a few pages later the edi­torial said wear The Shirt. Come on! If it's pur­ple polkadots I'll wear it as long as the other 80,000 or more people in Notre Dame stadium are. 
\Ve need to unite and make it a hostile envi­ronment for the opponents and give some energy to our team. As far as the breast cancer awareness thing, I support it. But maybe next time hand out pink ribbons. It was really cool when we all got together and held up those American flags, so lets finally pick a color, stick with it and move on. 
Matt Tarrant 
sophomore off-campus Nov. 2, 2001 

corporate know-how, the bookstore 
management goofed on this one. One 
would think that if the kelly green 
shirts had been in the plans for weeks, 
the publicity campaign might be a little more advanced, At the very least, a simple phone call to White's office would have been appro­priate. As it stands, the bookstore and adidas took money out of the hands of students, who had an effective week-long marketing strategy already laid out and threw it to the wind. Let me make this clear: I wholeheart­edly support fan 
unity at the football games and I sup­port the student organizers of this unity effort. I seri­ously question, . however, the moti­
vation behind the 
bookstore promo­tion of kelly green and the University 
decision to support 1 this effort over the recommendation of the students and the Athletic Department. As I said before, the promotion of blue would have led to increased funding for student clubs and emergency aid. 
Moreover. class councils, clubs and other organizations are not allowed to sell their own apparel at concession stands until The Shirt sells out, so by promoting a conflicting shirt, the book­store, adidas and the University administration ~re preventing student organizations from raising funds that they need to survive. 
Why would institutions that profess 
to care about this University communi­ty make such a decision? The only answer I can come up with is simple greed. The promotion of a new shirt brings in more money for the book­store and adidas. plain and simple. Jf the bookstore really cared about unity, it would not be charging studen ts $13 for a shirt that they will wear to two games. In fact, if it really cared about student unity, it would not be charging us money at all. But let's be truthful: the bookstore and adidas ·care nothing for Notre Dame students and the Irish football team. Their appeal tu unity is a thin veil for yet another attempt to increase profit for Follett and adidas shareholders. 
Throughout my three-plus years on this campus, I have continually heard the message that money is not every­thing in life, and it is a view that I per­sonally espouse. To the Follett Corporation and the adidas Corporation: I ask you to demonstrate that your business philosophies have such a holistic theme. I request that you reimburse the students of this University for the monies we have lost through decreased sales of The Shirt this weekend by donating the proceeds from sales of the kelly green shirts to The Shirt Fund. University president Father Edward Malloy. I also respect­fully ask you to take a serious look at Notre Dame's relationship with its cor­porate partners. 
Follett and adidas have shown that they care about the well-being or this University community only because of the profit they can gain from us. Are they truly "partners" in our mission to develop students who will makc1 this world a better place? 
Brendan P. Harris 
SCIJIOf 
Alumni Hall Nov. 4, 2001 

Allotting too many Vol_s seats 
. Last year, for whatever reason. a sizeable number of show our support. and we were almost out-voiced by an Notre Dame fans sold out and allowed Nebraska fans to orange clad visitors section that was twice its usual invade our stadium, clothed in red, resulting in one of size. 
the more embarrassing sights in recent Notre 
1 
~ear;~i:f1~t~v:~:~%·u;~~~:~;iya~~~~~f~~ ft ,--··:.·.~..:/.;··-_#,;:,,_,~.-~,;_:_f,;,.:_:-..::::~-~.:~ wasn't the alumni or the faculty or the stu-,: =~ . _ ;,:, dents who sold out. I don't imply that I ,,:,··,"' ~ 
know who is in charge of ticket allot­ments to visiting fans in our stadium. However. after four years of home games, I have a pretty clear idea of how many seats are usually reserved for visiting fans. Saturday's game against Tennessee apparently dou­bled the typical allotment of visiting seats. 
A visitor's section that usually occupies only the north east corner of the upper deck in the stadium. stretched the entire length of the end zone on Saturday. Since it is highly unlikely that three or four whole sec~ 
;-;,.;:· , ­. -, 

.-' 
, j' '' 

tions of Notre Dame fans decided to sell their tickets collectively to Tennessee fans (and only in that endzone, mind you). I have to conclude that these seats were inten­tionally allotted to visiting fans. If this is the case, then the ticket office or athletic department, or whoever is in charge of such a travesty owes the stu­dent body {and not to mention the alumni who were unable to procure tickets to this game) a heartfelt apol­ogy. The students showed up decked out in green to 
j 
Notre Dame reserves far too many scats for opposing fans. I don't care what the arrangements are with other schools for tickets ... if it involves selling out our pride at home, then why should we play these teams? Those tickets are much better suited for Notre Danw fans. Why on earth the powers­that-be would feel that it is some­how acceptable to modiry our homefield advantage, give all those Volunteer fans legitimate seats in our house and sell out the true fans who come to cheer anci support our team, is beyond me. 
t. I challenge someone l'rom the ,l athletic department to respond to this letter and offer a good expla­nation as to why that many scats would be filled with orange clad fans singing the other fight song Saturday afternoon. If there is a rea­
son, let's hear it. In the mean time, go Irish! 
Tim O'Connor 
Sl:lllOf 
Dillon Hall November 4. 200 I 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

page 12 

French autumn missing that 'je ne sais quoi' 
Fall is a strange time to be away from home, to be away from the Midwest. I think of November, I think of football games and leaf piles that smell of burning wood always in the air. Here, autumn is nothing special; the leaves shrivel up and die without ever changing color -the weather stays more or 
less the same. No one carves pumpkins or talks about going home for Thanksgiving. 
Maybe, I've been spoiled by Michigan's bursts of color -red and orange and yellow blurs on both sides of the road. Or maybe I took for granted all those amazing Indiana sunsets, the wide sky full of purple anti pink and all that ethanol. Now, I sit in my apartment in Paris and wish this country had at least a little autumnal festivity to offer me. 
Halloween began to catch on in France several years ago and now many storefronts use the popular American holiday as a display theme. But here it's just an excuse to give happy hour a few novelty drinks -there are no trick-or­

treaters and most Parisians seem to like pronouncing the word "'Alloween" more than actually donning a costume and getting into the spirit. 
The pumpkins are oddly flat and long and the candy corn is no where to be found. A big disappointment for those who still love to empty out the pillowcase at the end of the night and brag over who got the most king-sized candy bars. 
Thanksgiving is, obviously, the same story. We'll still have classes on that Thursday and there won't be any cheesy parades or football games to watch while getting geared up for turkey time. I understand the holiday has nothing whatso­ever to do with France (or any other country for that matter), but I say that if they want to plaster jack-o-lanterns on the windows, they might want to look into a day devoted entirely to eating. You take off work, spend the day cooking, have a three hour long feast and then fall asleep with a full belly ­it's perfectly Parisian. 
But I don't see it happening. 
It always comes back to the same argument, though. I'm in Paris -stop whining. I know I'll never have another fall like this one and I know I'll miss it so much once I've gone. But I would still love one good day at home right now to complain about raking leaves and sit down to eat my mom's pumpkin pie. And I'd give anything to see campus in all its colors, hear that roar from the Stadium on football Saturdays and shiver on the walk across South Quad. 
So fall is home and Paris is now, I accept it and move on. I guess Halloween on the Champs Elysees was never really going to catch on as an international attraction. I'll spend Thanksgiving in London -sort of the antithesis of what the original day was all about. But hey, you gather your Americans where you can. 
And Christmas in Paris? That one definitely has a nice ring to it. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
laura Kelly is a junior French and English major studying abroad in Paris. She can be reached at lkelly@nd.edu and wishes to thank the one grad student who wrote her, for boosting her self-esteem. French Connection appears Mondays in Scene. 
Laura Kelly 
French Connection 
us 
Monday, November 5, 2001 



Scene looks at student 
By SHEILA FLYNN 
Scene Writer 

Ah, November. The month when the snow begins falls, the temperature plummets, the work becomes unbearable and Spring Break planning starts. 
Now is the time when Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students begin dreaming of escaping from the South Bend permacloud, envisioning a fun­filled jaunt somewhere far from the world of aca­demics and dreary dorms. But not every student imagines the. same type of break; each student's dream is shaped by different preferences, bud­gets, likes and dislikes. And the possibilities are endless. 
Stereotypical Spring Break insanity 
For the students who want the traditional, crazy Spring Break filled with wild debauchery, beautiful beaches and endless partying, the best idea is to stick with the standards and head to a well-established spring break destination. 
Vacation spots like Cancun, Mexico, Mataztlan, Mexico, Daytona Beach, Fla., South Padre Island, Texas and Panama City Beach, Fla. are guaran• teed to be packed with thousands of other college kids, awesome clubs, gorgeous stretches of sand, activities and bargains geared toward a younger crowd. 
Affordable packages are abundant and easy to find. Web sites such as www.StudentCity.com, www.StudentAdvantage.com, www.Springbreak.net and www.Spring-Break­Party.com offer numerous options and great information. 
But students should do extensive research before booking a trip; all-inclusive and "special" packages are frequently advertised, but often the bargains aren't as amazing as they sound. A deal which covers food, such as guaranteeing seven breakfasts and seven dinners, may end up costing unnecessary dollars. 
If a person sleeps through the breakfast hours, he or she will have to buy his or her own food anyway. Students also often end up foregoing the prepaid meals for local eating establishments because dining in hotel lobbies and restaurants gets very boring very fast. 
"Very often, the menus are very restrictive," warned Kayleen Carr of Anthony Travel. "You might be given a $2 voucher at the hotel restau­rant, and that will be your meal." 
Party passes are another tricky commodity; many times, students would be better off simply strolling or driving through the hotel zone every afternoon and surveying the different nightly pro­motions of each club. Smart planning can save money, enabling students to get into great clubs without a cover each night by taking advantage of the various specials. 
Anthony Travel, the agency on both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses, in the base­ment of LaFortune, offers some of the best rates around. For example, packages to Nassau start at only $676 -a price which students will find after days of comparative Web surfing. is hard to beat. And, even more importantly. the agency's pack­ages are a good deal more reliable than ones ran­domly discovered on the Internet. 
For instance, many companies book Spring Breakers on charter flights, which often can result in up to 24 hour delays or. in worst case scenarios, cancellations. 
"We use scheduled air instead of chartcrsbc­cause charter flights have so many problems dur­ing spring break," Carr said. 
The exotic 
If a students are looking to book a trip on their own. without a package or they're searching for a tropical location that's less crowded, somewhat calmer and decidedly cheaper than the well­known spring break destinations, worthwhile options abound. 
The Dominican Republic (DH) is quickly becom­ing a popular vacation spot because of its inex­pensive rates, impressive scenery and famously friendly population. The second-largest and most populous nation in the Caribbean, the DH boasts tropical rainforests, breathtaking mountain ranges and golden sandy beaches which extend over one-third of the 870 miles of coastline. 
Bordered by both the Atlantic Ocean and t h e Caribbean Sea, reason­ably-priced resorts cov­ering the northern and eastern shores offer all-inclusive rates which are actually quite adva11­tageous. 
T h e 
Canary Islands, off the coasts or Spain and Africa, are also surpris­ingly inex­pensive. 
Lodging and 
dining are extremely cheap; trav­elers can enjoy the seven islands 


O
THE 
BSERVER 


for less than $40 a d a y , spending $3 to $5 on meals. Countless low-cost flights are available from major European cities. The best strategy when planning a trip is to find a cheap student fare to a major European metropolis and then take another, inex­pensive flight from there to the Islands. 
The Islands are a tourist haven, packed with souvenir shops and commercialized beaches, but the temperatures and sun are unbeatable year-round. The nightlife on the islands is also unrivalled; the discos and clubs remain packed until at least 3 or 4 a.m. Many continue on until the early morning. The island of Tenerife, especially, is known as one of the disco Meccas of Europe. 
Hitting the slopes 
For those students envisioning log cabins, snow-cov­ered peaks and hot chocolate, numerous ski resorts exist throughout the nation that promise hours of outdoor enjoyment in addition to tranquil, refreshing atmos­pheres. 
Breckenridge, located high in the Central Hocky Mountains in Summit County Colorado, offers first-class slopes, ice skating, snowboarding and countless other outdoor opportunities. But the Victorian town is the site of many other forms of entertainment; when you're exhausted from draining physical activity, you can visit more than 400 shops, galleries, bistros, salons and restaurants. Even a simple stroll through the town in the crisp mountain air is scenic and calming; strict building codes have preserved many Victorian-style buildings, leaving the streets reminiscent of the town's old mining days in the Old West. 
New England also harbors impressive ski lodges which include many benefits other than snow. ·Vermont's Killington Ski Resort, the largest ski and snow resort in the East, encompasses seven interconnected mountains and more than 87 miles of trails. But the region offers much more to the jaded student; the surrounding region is home to everything from quaint New England country stores, artisan shops and factory outlets to fine dining establishments. 
Road trip 

For students afraid of flying or tight on cash, the 80s-movie romanticized road trip calls. Jump in the car and head out onto the open road. The conti­nental United States and Canada offer more than enough vacation destinations that will afford great memories in addition to being affordable. 
Savannah, Ga. is a great place to spend Spring Break. This spir­ited city, in addition to being filled with stately historic man­
sions, beautiful tree-lined avenues, and old-fashioned Southern hospitality, is also the 
proud home of the second­largest St. Patrick's Day parade in America (the largest takes place in New York City.) 
Mardi Gras vendors flock from New Orleans for the fias­
co, beads in tow. The fountains of Savannah's 13 squares and the river are dyed green. The bars and clubs of the city's River Street and City Market are thronged nightly with thousands of people, starting several days before the actual St. Patrick's Day parade on March 17. The preceding week is filled with performances by numerous local bands and several more well-known groups. Sister Hazel was one of the more 
famous entertainers last year. "You just walk up and won the street, talking to strangers," said Maria Duque, a Savannah resi­
dent and Notre Dame sophomore. "Last year everything started Wednesday night and went on through Sunday. Friday and Saturday nights are huge." 
The daytime activities abound in Savannah, as well; a variety of historic tours of homes and sites run daily, and the remarkable Civil Rights Museum is a must-see. And the scrumptious Southern fare of the port city cannot be forgotten. 
"You've got to eat seafood while you're in Savannah," Duque said. 
Another popular road trip destination is only four hours from South Bend. Although it's in another country: Windsor, Canada, is a favorite among college students who are drawn to its many shopping venues, acclaimed restaurants, quaint city squares as well as drinking and gambling 
age of 19.  
Vacationers  in  
Windsor  can  visit  
everything  from  

wineries and maple syrup factories to casi­nos and Point Pelee National Park, which. is world-renowned for its variety of bird and butterfly species. 
For the adventurerous 
A restless wanderer who wants to see the world or is simply sick 
. of cookie-cutter breaks, might want to pick a vacation spot more off the beaten track. Switch conti­nents, switch hemi­spheres. With a little bit of research. it's def­initely doable. 
March is part of the off-season in Europe, io airfare to 
the continent is cheaper than at any other time of the 
year. Whether you're going to visit a friend abroad or 
simply want to sightsee, Spring Break is the time to go. 
The fairly new Eurail Selectpass is the perfect idea for the week; starting at $230, it allows a minimum of five days unlimited train travel through three bordering coun­tries that the student chooses. The train pass, combined \-\rith a hostel card, which is only $25, provides for inex­pensive transportation and lodging; careful planning will yield cheap meals, as well, and the week will prove infor­mative, enjoyable and economical. 
Not many students would think of Indonesia as a Spring Break destination, but the exotic island of Bali is not at all out of reach -or out of college-age price range. Kuta Beach on Bali's southwestern coast is an Indian Ocean Village that rivals any Western Hemisphere spring break hotspot in beaches, nightlife; and, most importantly, cost. 
As in Europe, Bali's off-season includes March, and roundtrip flight specials can be as low as $500 to $600. Figures like that, at first glance, probably make students cringe, but the bargain rates for lodging, food, drink and entertainment in Kuta Beach more than make up for the cost of getting there. The most powerful exchange cur­rency in Indonesia is the American dollar and its clout is blatantly evident in Bali prices. 
If students are willing to rough it without any frills (which would include no air conditioning, private bath­room or hot water), it's possible to book a hotel room for $4 to $8 a night. Adding those luxuries and more, a stan­dard-quality hotel room can be found for $20-30 a night. Even deluxe lodging can be secured for as low as $40. The local food is exotic but cheap. If students are not a fan of culinary adventures, Western franchises have made their way to Bali. Students can have a breakfast of Dunkin' Donuts rather than durian and orangensteen fruits. 
Nightlife hotspots are numerous and diverse. ranging from Irish pubs in two-story huts to clubs established in · docked ships. But they all have one thing in common: cheap, creative drinks and friendly, entertaining staff. Spring Break in Bali can be nothing short of crazy, unusual and ultimately unforgettable. 
Regardless of what students want in their Spring Break, how much they want to spend, or how many peo­ple they're traveling with, the perfect vacation is out there. 
With careful planning, savvy research, and an open mind, anything and everything is possible. 
Contact Sheila Flynn at flynn,58@nd.edu. 

Monday, November 5, 2001 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
NFL 
Bears make miracle comeback, def eat Browns 
out of the Browns' first six The Redskins (3-5), who start­yard TD pass to Kevin Dyson Brown, usually one of the 
Associated Press 
games. ed 0-5, had not scored a touch­and a 5-yarder to Derrick league's most dependable kick­Because this was his first down on the ground since cor­Mason, while scoring on a 5-ers, missed a potential game­
CHICAGO 

game back, the Browns didn't nerback Champ Bailey joined yard run in the third quarter. tying 35-yarder in the closingMike Brown couldn't believe it plan to play Brown that much. the offense for a few plays and He has passed for nine TDs in seconds and the Ravens got two was happening again when he But when Keith McKenzie got ran 7 yards for a score in last his last four games against field goals from Matt Stover in saw the ball pop in the air. 
hurt, he had to play more. And year's finale. The drought ended Jacksonville. with no intercep­the fourth quarter to beatThe Bears' David Terrell goes Brown showed why he was the when Davis carried the last tions. Pittsburgh. 
up on the Hail Mary pass, which first pick of the 2000 draft. He eight plays for 44 yards of a 69-The Ravens {5-3), winning in winds up deflecting to teammate had great explosiveness off the yard drive. He barely cracked Pittsburgh for the third straight
Giants 27, Cowboys 24
James Allen for the TD. 
corner, had three sacks and the goal line on a third-and-1. season, were in danger of going 
Morten Andersen turned hisBrown grabbed the ball and 
returned a fumble for the three losses down to the
took off for the end zone, his 16-300th game into one of his most
Browns' first touchdown. Steelers (5-2) in the AFC Central
yard interception return giving Titans 28, Jaguars 24 memorable.
As for the Bears, their second race. Instead, they got enough 
Eddie George played for the Andersen kicked a 42-yardthe Chicago Bears a stunning straight late-game rally --and offense to win on a day their
Tennessee Titans despite field goal with 7 :48 left in over­overtime win for the second the second straight game-win­defense had just enough left to
week in a row. •injuries to both legs. It was time, and the New York Giants
ning interception return by safe­keep from losing. 
Steve McNair who made sure rallied from a 17-point halftime"It's just weird, real weird," ty Mike-Brown --vyas pretty The Steelers, who had 21 first
Brown said Sunday after the they won. deficit to beat the Dallas
unbelievable too. downs to Baltimore's 10, had
Bears beat Cleveland 27-21 for McNair threw for two touch­Cowboys. 
more scoring chances than thetheir sixth straight win. downs and ran for two more, Kerry Collins, who had two Ravens,.only to lose because the "If a book was written, I don't Redskins 27, Seahawks 14 including a 1-yarder with 44 interceptions returned for most reliable component of their think they'd believe it. It just Stephen Davis barely made it seconds left, as the Titans beat touchdowns in the first half, offense broke down. 

came right to me and fell right to the goal line for the Jacksonville and extended the threw three scoring passes and After making a 38-yard fieldinto my hands," Brown said. "I Washington Redskins' first Jaguars' losing skid to five hit Ike Hilliard with a 33-yarder goal in the first quarter, Browndon't know what to say. A high­touchdown rushing this season. straight games. on third down to set up the was wide right on a 41-yarderer power, luck, destiny, whatev­That was about the only close The Jaguars (2-5) were hurt game-winning kick. The victory later in the half, and he also er you call it." call in a show of dominance by video replays for the second by the Giants (4-4) snapped a missed a 32-yarder in the thirdThe Bears (6-1) forced over­from a resurgent team. straight week. Referee Bill three-game losing streak. 
quarter· following a high snaptime with two touchdowns in the The Redskins won their third Carollo ruled Sunday that The Giants also picked off after the Steelers had taken afinal 28 seconds of regulation, straight with each win more McNair's TD plunge stood Clint Stoerner four times in the 10-7 lead. 

tying the game on Shane impressive than the last. Davis despite the replay showing he second half, and they blocked a Brown misse.d yet again, a 48­Matthews' 34-yard desperation ran 32 times for 142 yards might have lost the ball before punt to set up Collins' 9-yard yarder into the windy end of pass to James Allen on the final against one of the best rushing crossing the goal line. touchdown pass to Hilliard that Heinz Field, with 4:22 remain•play. defenses in the league, and the Jacksonville had one last tied it midway through the ing that would have putThen Brown, whose 33-yard Washington defense. chased chance, but end Jevon Kearse fourth quarter. 
Pittsburgh ahead. · interception return in OT beat quarterback Matt Hasselbeck in sacked Mark Brunell twice, and The 17-point comeback is the Brown's fourth miss came atthe 49ers 37-31 a week ago, a victory over the Seattle time ran out as the Jaguars got best for the Giants since coming the same end, after Stover putwas in the right spot again. Seahawks. across midfield. back from a 17-0 halftime the Ravens ahead on a 39­After scoring, he ran out of the Tony Banks completed 15 of The Titans (3-4) talked of rest­deficit to beat San Francisco 21­yarder with 1 :49 left on a driveend zone into the locker room 23 passes for 152 yards with ing George for the first time in 17 on Dec. 1, 1986. 

highlighted by Randall

two touchdowns and one inter­his NFL career because of
as his Bears teammates fol­
Cunningham's 26-yard comple­lowed him into the tunnel. ception. He has six touchdowns injuries to his knee, thigh and 

Ravens 13, Steelers 10 tion to tight end Shannon
How impressive was Courtney and two interceptions in his last ankle. He started his 87th Pittsburgh Steelers kicker Kris Sharpe.
Brown's performance today? four games. · straight game and carried 22 Brown was wide. right all after­The two also hooked up in theCourtney Brown's perfor­On Sunday, the Redskins con­times for 70 yards. 
noon and the Baltimore Ravens first half on a 13-yard scoring mance was unbelievable. A knee trolled the defensive line of the McNair was 27-of-34 for 241 got just enough from their kick­pass for Baltimore's only touch­injury kept the second-year Seahawks (3-4} for TD drives of yards passing, with 10 carries er in a matchup of the NFL's top down.
defensive end from Penn State 4:34, 7:50 and 5:33. for 7 4 yards. He tossed a 20­two defenses. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f,m, at the _Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content with9ut issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
ROOMS AVAILABLE AT THE Houses available for 3-6 students. Spring Break with STS, America's HOPING TO ADOPT SOUTH BEND MARRIOTT Good area. ADT, washer-dryer-air. #1 Student Tour Operator. We are a Catholic, fun-loving, well LOST AND FOUND NOVEMBER 15-18, NOTRE DAME Dave 340-0106. Promote trips on campus earn cash educated and financially secure
TICKETS

VS. NAVY WEEKEND. ROOMS and free trips. Info/Reservations married couple in Northern 
BLOCKED FOR AN ND CONFER-SPRING BREAK PARTY! Indulge 1-800-648-4849 www.ststravel.com California. We are homestudy Found knit cap with Barna on it ENCE, EXTRAS AVAILABLE. FOR in FREE Travel, Drinks, Food and BUY-SELL approved and excited to share our Call 4-1627 MORE INFORMATION PLEASE Parties with the Best DJ's and ND FOOTBALL TICKETS •••ACT NOW! GUARANTEE THE love with a bay! You ·can learn 
CALL BARB HERB AT 312-243-celebrities in Cancun, Jamaica, 2TT-6619 or 273-3911 BEST SPRING BREAK PRICES! more about us at www.parentpro­
4244 (X4192) Mazatlan and the Bahamas. Go to SOUTH PADRE, CANCUN, files.com/profiles/db2288.html or 
StudentCity.com, call 1-800-293-NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TIX JAMAICA, BAHAMAS, ACAPUL-call Adoption Connection toll-free at 
FOR RENT Bed 'n Breakfast near ND for grad. 1443 or email FOR SALE CO, FLORIDA & MARDI GRAS. 1-800-972-9225 and ask about 
weekend. Wild Irish Rose Inn. 219-sales@studentcity.com to find out A.M. 232-2378 REPS NEEDED. TRAVEL FREE, Chris and Mary. 
2TT-4303 www.irishroseinn.com more, P.M. 288-2726 EARN $$$. GROUP DISCOUNT 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM• FOR 6+. 800-838-8203 Your Mom 
PUS HOUSES FOR RENT: COACH: Need Jr. High boys bas-ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED www.leisuretours.com mmmrentals.com 1) 9-br. $2400/month ketball coach: responsible and A.M. · 232-2378 P.M. -288-2726 Your Dad 
2) 5-br. $1500/month dependable, student or grad to $300-$800 Scholarships email: mmmrentals@aol.com 3) 4-br. $1000/month coach 7-8th grade reserve basket-ND tickets for sale. Lowest prices. Available per semester! And she was good! 
Call Bill at 532-1896 ball team, Nov 12-Feb 21; for south 232-0964. Looking for a job which lets you THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and side private elementary school, work around your school schedule? There are some things that just Breakfast Inn has space available Homes for rent near campus located near Scottsdale Mall on WANTED -ND TICKETS We have several part-time and lull-shouldn't be categories in kings! for tootbalVparent wknds. 5 rooms furn.272-6306 Miami St. Must be available for 289-9280 time day & evening positions paying Especially if they involve me. with private baths, $80-$115, practices Mon-Thurs from 2:20-$7-$11/hr. We offer the following: Middlebury, 30 mites from campus. Northshore Condo, 3:15. Game schedule varies with 9· Buying some/ Selling a few extra ·scholarship money Your Mom Toll Road Exit #107, 1428 Marigold Way 1Ogames beginning after school at N,D, Football Tickets, *Flexible Schedules 
near ND, 1 bdr, 1 bath, LR, DR & 4 or 5 pm. Paid position. Call 291-219-289-8048. *Paid vacations/holidays Your Dad 1 -800-418-9487 kitchen w/appliances 4200 to apply. *Optional Saturdays 1 car garage. $69,000 *Health/life/401 (k) Kerry ­B&B 
*Incentives/Raises They shouldn't involve you either! 2-3 ROOMS HOME GAMES 1-bdrm w/ patio, $545/mo, Swm PERSONAL *Supervisory/Mgt Positions 2 Ml NO OF CAMPUS pool, exercise room, laundry tac. FOR SALE 1-(888) 801-JOBS Your Mom 247-1124 3.5 miles from campus. Lease SPRING BREAK jobs@americallcorp.com 
expires 5/2002, may be renewed. Selling Varsity Club time share 1 Largest selection of Spring Break Just minutes north of campus Your Dad Lodging -Bed and Breakfast, 45 Call Ben Feden soph. wk. $9,500 Destinations, including Cruises! minutes from Notre Dame. T&R (219) 255-2153 272-1753 Rep Positions, Free Drinks and ADOPTION IS LOVE Your life is going before your eyes 
INN Between the lakes. 
Free trips available. Imagine your precious baby safe and you remember the way that ice 
Call Doris at 254-1772 for more info www. EpicuRRean.com and happy in a loving family, cream tasted., PH (616) 244-9084 1999 Toyota RAV4 excellent condi-1 -800-231-4-FUN adored by 2 ND grad parents {a full-www.innbetweenthelakes.com tion -only 10,500 miles, leather, cd time mom and lawyer dad) and lov-My Weeeeeee shirt should be here 
changer, manual transmission WANTED: SPRING BREAKERS! ing playmates in a beautiful home. today.
WANTED

FREEDOM! 4 and 5 Bdrm Houses, CALL 243-9937 Sun Coast Vacations wants to send We promise to give your child the 
furnished, sec syst, wash/dry, you on Spring Break to Cancun, the life you dream of for them. Medical, Your Mom PRIME locations, util included. 4 Br Student wanted! Alum owned 2 Moving out need to sell everything! Bahamas, Jamaica or Mazatlan legal, counseling, court-approved has V-ball &B-ball courts. story, 5 bdr, 2 bth w/ newer carpet. Great prices! Furniture, kitchen FOR FREE! To find out how, call 1-living expenses pd. Confidential. Your Dad 
Appl, sec, roof & furnace, 3 lot yd, 1 appliances, tv, bed, and many more 888-777-4642 or email: sales@sun-Please call our attorney at (708) 233-9947 blk N. of Club 23. 321-217-8451, stuff. CALL 243-9937 coastvacatJons.com 922-4795 Yeah 
Monday, November 5, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page IS 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Wolverines contest call 
• Final seconds of loss remain controversial 
Associated Press 
EAST LANSING, Mich. A day didn't quiet the con­troversy. 
The last second of Michigan State's wild 26-24 victory over Michigan on Saturday night is still a source of contention. 
On the final play, Jeff Smoker, scrambling and off­balance, lobbed a 2-yard touchdown pass to T .J. Duckett as time expired. 
The play was set up after officials ruled that 1 second should remain on the clock after Smoker spiked the ball following a 1-yard scramble. 
'Tm sure the Big Ten will make some kind of statement because that play should never have been allowed to be run,"Michigan coach Lloyd Carr said Sunday on his week­ly television show. "Obviously, the clock in the last 10 sec­onds, there's a major error there and something needs to be done about it." 
Michigan State coach Bobby Williams declined to comment Sunday. 
The loss likely ended the Wolverines' chances of play­ing in the Rose Bowl for the Bowl Championship Series' national championship game. 
Michigan (6-2, 4-1 Big Ten) fell from sixth to 12th in The Associated Press poll and Michigan State (5-2, 3-2) went from being unranke.d to No. 23. 
The officials' decision to Michigan State's game-win­have a second on the clock for ning drive, which started at the final play was not the only Michigan's 43 with 2:09 left, ruling still being questioned. that Carr said were correct 
Michigan State called its calls. final time out with 36 seconds In addition to the illegal left when the Wolverines participation penalty, on a sacked Smoker for an 11th fourth-and-16 from the 50, an time. incomplete pass turned into a 
The Wolverines were first down for Michigan State flagged for having 12 players when cornerback Jeremy on the field, which should Lesueur was called for a per­have stopped the clock and sonal foul for making contact left the Spartans with a time with Rogers' face mask. out to call with about 10 sec­However, Carr said, "our onds left, before the final players deserve better,"on play. several occasions after the 
Also, there was no extra­game. p o i n t The team attempt, that ran the and officials "That play should never ball for 
more yards

did not have been allowed to be 
immediately won the 
run ... there ·s a major 
explain game for the why. error there. " 32nd time in 
In college the last 33 football. a meetings.
Lloyd Carr
team on T h e 
head coach
defense can Spartans 
score two points if it scores by returning a blocked kick or scores on a return of an interception or fumble on a 2-point conversion. 
But the Spartans likely would have taken a knee on a 2-point conversion attempt if they were forced to run another play. 
Dave Parry, the Big Ten's supervisor of football officials, watched the game from the press box. 
A message left with Parry on Sunday night was not immediately returned. 
The Wolverines were called for two penalties during 
had 169 

yards against the team that began the game as the nation's best against the run. Duckett ran for 211 yards, Dawan Moss added 22 and Smoker lost 64 yards, thanks to Michigan's sacks. 
After Duckett's catch, he was swarmed in the end zone by celebrating teammates in front of a cheering student section. 
"I thought about running out there and jumping on the pile,"Williams said. "But I said, 'No, I better not do that.' So I just watched all those guys jump on each other." 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Tigers to hire Dombrowski 
McHale left the Tigers for the 
Associated Press 
Tampa Bay Devil Rays. Dombrowski was a candi­DETROIT 
date for similar positionsThe Detroit Tigers are 
with the Toronto Blue Jays
expected to hire Florida and Texas Rangers. TheMarlins executive Dave Rangers hired former
Dombrowski as president, a 
Cleveland executive John 
source close to the situation Hart as general manager.
told The Associated Press on 
Dombrowski is widely

Sunday. 
regarded as one of baseball's
The source, speaking on 
top executives. He has two
condition of years left 
anonymity, 
on a five­

also said "We may have some year, $5 Tigers gener­
things to say tomorrow. million 
aI manager 
contract,

Randy Smith Anything I would have to ..
but owner 

and manager say tonight would be J o h nPhil Garner 
preliminary . ., H e n r y
would keep gave him 
their jobs. 
permis-

Both have Dave Dombrowski 
sion to 

two years 
Marlins executive talk to 
remaining on 
their  con­ 
tracts.  
T  h  e  

announcement is expected early this week. 
"We may have some things to say tomorrow," Dombrowski said in a tele­phone interview from his Florida home Sunday night. "Anything I would say tonight would be preliminary." 
Steve Copses, a spokesman for the Marlins, said the team would have no comment. 
Dombrowski, the Marlins' president and GM, would be replacing Tigers owner Mike Ilitch, who appointed himself team president when John o t h e r teams. 
He has been the Marlins general manager since 1991 -18 months before the expansion team's first game. 
He helped build the Marlins, who won the 1997 World Series. Dombrowski went to Florida after serving as general manager of the Montreal Expos for two years. 
The Tigers (66-96*) fin­ished last season with a los­ing record for an unprece­dented eighth consecutive season. They lost 13 more games than they did in 2000. 
INTERRA.CE FORUM: 
SHADES OF BROVVN, BLACK, YELLOVV, WHITE......WHO AM I??? 





Wednesday, Noven1ber 7, 200 1 
5: 30 p.n,. 

Center· for-Social Concen1s 
All a,-e welcon,e t.o join us fo,-a discussion and dinner-, follo\ved by a perfon11ance by Antonio Sac,-e entitled ""Br-own, Black, White All Over·" in the LaFortune Ballroon,. 
RSVP to MSPS ~n: 63 1-6B4 I 

page 16  The Observer . SPORTS  Monday, November 5, 2001  
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL  NCAA FOOTBALL  
Teams criticized  Kansas dismisses Allen  

Associated Press 

for hiring practices 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX 
Baseball commissioner Bud Selig criticized teams Sunday for not hiring any minority managers or general man­agers since the end of the reg­ular season. 
The Houston Astros have hired Jimy Williams to replace Larry Dierker as manager. Texas hired John Hart to replace Doug Melvin as gener­al manager and Detroit are expected to hire Dave Dombrowski from Florida as team presi­dent. All are 

the alleged
"They all followed the 

final three games but has no
white. 

candi­
guarantee beyond that. 
"I'm not memorandum. rm not 

dates," 
Allen, 20-33 at Kansas and
thrilled about 

happy about it -Fll deal Selig said. 
increasingly unpopular with
it, to say the 

H e
least," Selig with that starting 

alumni, urged everyone to get
refused to 
behind the new coach.
said before Tuesday.,. 

discuss 
'Tm sorry we were not suc­
Game 7 of the 

baseball's 
cessful," Allen said, while Bohl

World Series. 

labor situa­
Bud Selig 

and Hayes waited to come to
There are 

tion. The 
the front of the room and
managing baseball commissioner 
spots still open in Florida and Minnesota -two of the teams mentioned as candidates for elimination if baseball decides to contract. Selig has told teams they must consider minority candidates, but the clubs are free to hire whomever they chose. 
"They all followed the mem­orandum," he said. "I'm not happy about it -I'll deal with that starting Tuesday. I think that clubs shortchanged them­selves. We have a great talent pool. Just because the person hasn't held the position before -Branch Rickey had to start somewhere. So did George Weiss." 
Two days before owners gather in Rosemont, Ill., for their first meeting since June, Selig wouldn't get into specifics about the possibility of eliminating teams. 
He said last weekend that teams could be elintinated before the start of next season 


I! 

I I 
'.J 
I 
been told he was fired -left the Jayhawks 2-6, 1-5 in the conference. 
"We stumbled early on some things we needed to do. But the reality ·or the situation is, this is the toughest league in college football," Allen said. 
Bohl, who led revivals at Toledo and Fresno State in less­er conferences, said he would tolerate nothing less than championship football. 
"I really believe what our objective should be at Kansas is to try to play in that Big 12 championship game," Bohl said. "Because if you play in that game and win it, you'll be playing for the national cham­pionship." 
Kansas has not won a confer­ence title since it tied for the Big Eight championship in 1968. 
"It can be done at Kansas," Bohl said. "It will be done." 
Asked how long it might take, Bohl replied, "I want us to get started in the next three games." 
Allen's firing came as no sur­prise to his players. 
"That's just the way it goes with the college football busi­ness," senior defensive tackle Nate Dwyer said. "It's cut­throat. Either you win or you get fired." 
Since Bohl left Fresno State last summer, there has been speculation that that he would bring in Bulldogs coach Pat Hill. 
Other names that have circu­lated as possibilities include former Oklahoma State coach Pat Jones as weir as Gary Darnell of Western Michigan and Bob Pruett of Marshall. 
Highly successful while going 75-26 in eight seasons as coach at Division I-AA Northern Iowa, Allen was handed a Kansas program in 1997 severely lack­ing in talent. He was 5-6 in his first year and followed that with campaigns of 4-7, 5-7 and 4-7. 
Perhaps most infuriating to Kansas fans were five straight blowout losses to Kansas State. 
Bohl hopes to name a succes­sor shortly after the end of the season. The new coach will benefit from more than a hon­eymoon period with fans and alumni. In the Big 12's rotation cycle, powerful Oklahoma and Texas will be replaced next year by struggling Baylor and Oklahoma State. 
"The schedule changes so dramatically next year, we can hopefully get some momentum going for the program," Allen said. 
Hayes said he would not spend the next three weeks campaigning for the job. 
"To put it bluntly, I'm not going to get involved in that," he said. "This is not about Tom Hayes. My role is about a three­week season .and the players on this team. I'm going to focus on the job at hand. 
"But yes, anybody would enjoy the opportunity to be head coach here." 
After last year, Allen fired many of the assistant coaches he brought with him from Northern Iowa and revamped his staff, including hiring Hayes. . 
But as attendance plummet­ed, so did much-needed football revenue. 

-which could require negoti­ations with the players' associatioMontreal is the top candidate for elimination because the Expos averaged just 7,648 fans at Olympic Stadium this year. Government officials in Florida and Minnesota are worried the •Marlins and Twins, who have failed to gen­erate legislative support for a new ballpark, also could be candidates. 
"To be honest with you, I've been a little surprised by the lack of contraction stories in places other than 
IAWRENCE, Kan. 
Terry Allen, the only coach in Kansas football history to keep his job after four straight losing seasons, could not make it through a fifth. 
Vowing to raise the 
l o w l y 

Jayhawks to the top of the Big 12, athletic director Al B o h l announced Sunday that Allen had been dis­missed. Defensive coordinator and secondary coach Tom Hayes will be in charge the 

collective 
bargaining 
agreement was to expire with the final out of the World Series. Under federal labor law, the rules of the agreement remain in place until there's a new deal or until the sides negotiate to impasse and management imposes new work rules. 
Talks have not yet begun, and some owners favor lock­ing out players before Nov. 20, the first day free agents can sign with new teams. 

H TurningOv1Jr ANIJWllJaf 
• Help the elderlV residents or South Bend. 
• SlfflPl8 vanlWork lctlVltY: Raking llMS 
• 
Fonn Your Groupwith Friends NOWII 

• 
Slun~up with YourDormSenlce 


Commlsslonerl 

SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 10th 9AM to 12PM Rain orShine 
BRUKFAST & LUNCH PROVIDEDl!I 
Volunteers will meet at the Robinson Community Leaming Resource Center. Rides will be provided from Main Circle if unable to drive to RCLC. 
SN•Ol'ldn: 

Robinson Community Leaming Center, Center for Social Concerns, NorthEast Neighborhood Center, Northeast Neighborhood Revitalization Organization, Hall Social Concerns Commissioners, Stanford Hall, & Class of2004 
speak. 

"We did our best and didn't fulfill what we needed to do. Success in this league is very difficult." 
Under intense pressure to deliver a winning season in Bohl's first season as his boss, Allen, 44, faced the NCAA's toughest schedule. 
Besides Big 12 powers Nebraska, Oklahoma, Kansas State and Texas, the Jayhawks also played UCLA. A 51-7 loss to No. 2 Nebraska Saturday night -after he had already 
lnternationa_l Study Programs University of Notre Dame 

-

Information Meetings: 
Thursday, Oc;tober 18 at 5:00 245 DeBartolo 
Wednesday, November 7 at 5:00 231 DeBartolo 
http://www.nd.edu/-intlstud/ 
I; 
i; 
I; 

; ~ . " 14 , -< • , • ~ :,,.. 1 ' t _ 1 ' t ' " '"' ,:-• I 1. • 4 f I t • ~ • • ii ... t ~ ·. ._ ,<.:\ I I 
~llllllfllllllli••••••••••••••••••jlilllll~j:lll~IIJ~~llllllllllll;l••J-• ¦ i11•,~1 r: 

Monday, November 5, 2001 page 17
T&e Observer . SPORTS 
, 

PGA TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP . 
• 

Birdie flies Weir to repeat tour victory 
. Canadian golfer wins Championship for second straight year 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON Weir sure knows how to fin­ish off the year in style. 
In a thrilling conclusion to the PGA Tour season, Weir holed a 5-foot birdie putt to win the Tour Championship on the first hole of a four-man playoff Sunday, giving the Canadian his first victory of the season. 
It was the second straight year Weir won the final official event of the PGA Tour. A year ago, he surged past a world­class field at Valderrama to win the American Express Championship. 
This one was even sweeter. 
Weir, the first foreign player to win the Tour Championship, closed with a 67 and wound up in the playoff with hard­charging Ernie Els, the the­atrical Sergio Garcia and PGA champion David Toms. 
Only Weir and Toms hit the fairway with their tee shots and only Weir had a decent shot at birdie. 
He ended it quickly. 
Els, desperate to keep alive his streak of at least one victo­ry on the PGA Tour every year since 1994, was seemingly stuck behind the trees down 
. the 18th fairway in the playoff when he hit over the branches to about 40 feet. 
His birdie putt grazed the None ended quite like this, right edge of the cup. with darkness descending on 
"I gave myself a chance, at Champions Golf Club. least," Els said. "I'm quite Toms, Garcia and Els each proud of myself for hanging in closed with a 68 to join Weir there.". at 14-under 270. 
Toms hit the fairway, just Scott Verplank, the 54-hole short of a sand-filled divot. He leader, bogeyed the 17th to 
had 35 feet  fall out of the  
for  birdie,  lead and fin­ 
but failed to cash·in· on what would have been  "/ gave myselfa chance, at least. rm quite proud ofmyselffor hanging in  ished one stroke back, along with Kenny Perry.  
his  fourth  there."  Tiger Woods  
vie tory  of  made ·an early  
the year. Garcia  Ernie Els  appearance on the leader­ 
was  in  a  golfer  board,  three  

familiar spot behind a tree. He got questionable relief, but couldn't get out of the jungle, then hit his third shot over the green. 
But he wasn't done yet -his 80-foot chip broke away from the cup at the last sec_ond, le a ving the 21-year-old Spaniard on his knees with his hands over his head in disbe­lief. 
That set the stage for Weir, and the left-hander's putt was true. 
Weir, who had to make it through Q-school only three years ago, won for the third time on the PGA Tour. It was his first victory in the United States, having won in Vancouver in •99 and last year in Spain. 
He won $900,000 and a trip to the winners-only Mercedes Championship. 
The Tour Championship has had 15 winners in its 15 years. 
strokes out of 
the lead when 

he made the turn. He finished with two bogeys for a 70 and finished six strokes behind in a tie for 12th. 
Still, he won the PGA Tour money title and the Vardon Trophy for the lowest scoring average for the third straight year. 
With five victories, including the Masters and The Players Champion-ship-, he already clinched the PGA of America player of the year and likely will collect the tour's award, which is a vote of the players. 
"All those are good things. I'm proud of the way I played the entire year," Woods said. "It wasn't quite as good as last year, but it was still a pretty darn good year." 
It was thrilling finish to the PGA Tour season. 
Verplank began the final round under warm, breezy conditions with a one-stroke 

Antonio Sacre 
Performance Artist and Bilingual Storyteller 
Brown and Black and White All Over 
Wednesday, November 7, 2001 
7:00 pm 

La Fortune Student Center Ballroom 
Si la gente quiere comer carne; Ifthe People 
Want to Eat Meat, Let them Eat Meat., The 
Remarkable Story ofmy Brother 
Performance Artist and Bilingual Storyteller Thursday, November 8, 2001 8:oo pm Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art 
The performances are cosponsored by: Multicultural Student Programs and Services, the Helen l<ellogg Institute for International Studies, the Creative Writing Department, the Film, Television, and Theater Department, and La Alianza, all of the University of Notre Dame 
1-N. S TI.Tu· T E•-y 
.. •· . -·. .. ·__ '·····"
. 


Latino St11dies 
181ii!lllili!!iilliii i ii% 9~11 
wm;s
as aiicialllSllssos1se,rn ;e;ue mrrrrwm as 

lead over David Duval, although it was anyone's tour­nament at the turn. 
Four players -Verplank, Toms, Weir and Perry -were tied for the lead. 
Verplank had said Saturday afternoon that making all pars wouldn't get it done, and he proved to be a prophet. 
He was tentative with his birdie chances on the back nine, and missed a 10-foot par putt on 17 to fall out of the lead. 
He missed an 18-foot birdie putt on the final hole that would have put him in the playoff, and wound up with an 
even-par 71. 
D u v a l could have run away with the tournament if he could take back two holes ­a triple­bogey on the par-5 13th on Friday, and a dou­ble-bogey on the par-3 12th in the final round. He missed birdie putts 
of 12 feet on the last two holes and finished two strokes out of the playoff. 
Els had the most dramatic finish in regulation. 
Lingering in the pack at 13­und.er, the Big Easy made two good pars -one from a bunker on 16, the other a two­putt from some 7 5 feet on 17 -then showed why he has won two U.S. Opens. 

Down to his last chance, Els hit a wedge 5 feet behind the hole for a birdie. 
Garcia brought back memo­ries of Medinah. He made a 30~foot birdie putt on 17 that gave him a share of the lead, then did a pirouette of shock when his 25-foot birdie putt just slid by the cup on the 18th. 
Weir and Toms were the only two that made mistakes. 
Toms missed an 8-foot par putt on 17 to drop back to 14­under. 
Weir had two clutch par saves on the back nine, and 
"All those are good things. rm proud ofthe way I played the entire year. It wasn't quite as good as last year, but it was still a pretty darn good year. ,, 
Tiger Woods golfer 
had control of the tourna­ment with an 8-foot par putt on 17. However, his drive found the bunker on No. 18, he came up short of a greenside bunker and pitched to 15 feet, missing the par putt. 
By the end of regulation, the practice 

range was more busy than it was on the eve of the tourna­ment -four players, side by side, getting ready for a play­off that paid $900,000 to the winner. 
Weir was down to his last chance of winning this year. Once again, he save his best golf for the final week. 

THE 29th ANNUAL 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
Madrigal Dinners 
Fri. & Sat., Nov. 30 & Dec. 1 at 7 pm Sun., Dec. 2 at 2 & 7 pm Regina North Lounge 
Madrigal singers from the Saint Mary's College choirs, along with period instruments, jugglers, a jester and a Master of the House entertain 200 patrons per performance during a feast fit for a king. 
Saint M~sCollege 

NOTRE DAME INDIANA
G 
For tickets call: 219/284-4626 


--------------------------------------, 
page 18 

The Observer . SPORTS Monday, November 5, 2001 

Series 
contiriued from page 24 
two-run leads in lh<~ bottom or 
thr. ninth both times. 
Handy Johnson. at 38, 
earned the victory in rnlief. lie 
also won Came 6 on Saturday 
night, a 15-2 romp. 
Johnson and manv othrr 
Arizona old-tirnPrs such as 
Mark Grace. Matt Williams 
and Mike Morgan won their 
first championship ring. 
The Yankees, the team that 
would not give up. nearly won 
it for the city that \.vould not 
give in. A highly motivated 
bunch, they showed extra 
resolve after the Sept. 11 ter­
rorist attacks in New York. 
The Yankees were a home 
run swing away from elimina­
tion in the first round against 
Oakland, and lost the first two 
games at Bank One Ballpark. 
But back in the desert, thev 
looked lost. • 
Alfonso Soriano's solo homer 
off Schilling put New York 
ahead 2-1 in the eighth. 
Hivera, the most dominant 
reliever in postseason history, 
set down the Diamondbacks in 
the bottom half. 
Then in the ninth, Arizona 
rallied. 
Grace led off with a single and Hivera threw awav Damian Miller's bunt for an error, putting runners at first and second. 
Jay Bell bunted into a force play at third, but \,Vomack lined a tying double to the right-field corner. Counsel!, who scored the winning run in Game 7 with Florida in 1997, was hit by a pitch. 
\Vith the infield in, Gonzalez hit it hard enough for a game­winning single that set off fin~­wo r ks, pounding music and deafening cheers. 
The Yankees fell to 5-6 over­all in deciding Game 7s of the Series. 
Schilling was nearly untouchable at the start. The first pitcher to start three games in a Series since Minnesota's Jack Morris in 1991, he once again showed no ill effects rrom working on thrne days' rest. 
Schilling allcnved only one hitter to reach through six innings, and even that guy did not last long on th(~ bases. 

Paul O'Neill. playing his final game before retiring. was thrown out trying to stretch a double into a triple in the first. 
But given a 1-0 lead in the sixth on Dannv Bautista's HBI double. Schilling gave it back. 
A strange wind started S\Virling through the ballpark to start the top of the seventh. MaybP it was a precursor of vvhat was to come because moments later. Arizona had blown its edge. 
Schilling retired 16 straight hitters brfore slumping Derek Jeter !Pd off with a single and O'Neill followed with a single in front of center f1elder Steve Finley. 
Up came Bernie Williams, and Yankees manager Joe Torre had no intention to bunt with his No. 3 hitter. Besides, vVilliams has not had a sacri­fice since 1996. 
With Miguel Batista and Brian Anderson warming in the Arizona bullpen, \Villiams grounded into a force play that left runners at the cor­ners. 
Tino Martinez tied it with an HBI single, and Schilling escaped further trouble by getting two fly balls. Pinley ran a long way into the right­center field gap to track down Spane Spencer's drive that ended the inning. 
Clemens, pitching the biggest game of his great career, worked out of several early jams. The Diamondbacks caught up to him in the sixth after Finley led off with a sin­gle. 
Bautista was next, and manv people thought the man with 
• five HBI in Saturday's 15-2 romp would bunt. Arizona manager Bob Brenly once again crossed up his critics and let Bautista swing away, and it worked. • 
Bautista hit a drive into the left-center gap, and Clemens 

simply stood on the mound 
with his right hand on hip, 
watching thfi play unfold. 

Finley scored easily, and 
Bautista was nailed at third on 
a fast. acrobatic relav bv ­
who else'? -Jeter. · · 

Clemens, prone to being too 
pumped-up for big games, 
kept himself calm on tho 
mound in the early going. 
Composed, he talked to catch­
er Jorge Posada before big 
pitches and listened to pitch­
ing coach Mel Stottlemyre's 
advice in the dugout. 

The Hocket was more revved 
in othm· \.Vays. He dropped a 
toss at first base while trip­
ping over the bag for an error, 
and later swung so hard that 
he stumbled across home 
plate. 

Clemens was pulled after 6 
1-3 innings with 10 strikeouts. 
He left without a Game 7 vic­
tory, the only thing missing on 
his Hall of Fame resume. 

The usually steady Yankees looked shaky in the field, again. Soriano and Clemens made errors and the noisv crowd seemed to cause confu·­sion on a couple other balls. 
New York made seven errors against Arizona after commit­ting a total of only five in the past three World Series. 
Asked before th~ game to describe his team's mood, Torre said, "There's a lot of nervousness." 
"It's anxiety," he said. 

Most everyone at the park seemed excited, and a bit edgy. 
The three dozen fans in the pool area beyond the right­center field wall spent most of the game perched on the fence. With so much at stake, hardly any of them dipped in the water, even though they paid $7,000 to rent the space. 

AFP PHOTO/The Observer The Diamondbacks celebrate after their comeback victory over the Yankees Sunday. Arizona took game seven from New York to win its first World Series. 




University of No1 re Dame International Study Program in 
Angers, France 
"Courses! of Course" 
INFORMATION 
MEETING 
With Prof. Paul McDowell 
and returnees of the program 
lease ·oin us whether it is 
econd meetin wit 
Tuesday, November 6, 2001 
7:15 PM 210 DeBartolo 
Application Deadline: Dec. 1, 2001 Academic Year 2002-2003 Fall 2002-Spring 2003 
~:o~!/o~~.tH ·•• Applications available: www.nd.edu/~intlstud [ For ticket information 284 4626 i 
I>' i contact the Saint Mary's Box Office at -I 
f '. 
' I 

l_,...,,_"""""""°"",_,,_..,,,,,_, •·••·•·•·•·•·•·•·•···"·•·•• ·•·•·•·····•·•·•···•·•••·•·••m•-."-=·¾-«,'<+»-""-._,..,,w,,.,,...,.._-«,.,._,,.,...,__.,.-..,,,,..._,J 
_J 

Monday, November 5, 200 I 
The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Cal head coach resigns 
Associated Press 
BEHKELEY, Calif 

With a winless record so far this season, California football coach Tom Ilolmoe announced Sunday he will resign at the Pnd of the season. 
The Golden 
"It's with deep regret that I arrived at this decision," Holmoe said in a statement. "We had great dreams when we took over the reins here five years ago, and it's unfortunate that manv of those dreams \Vere not realiied." 
llolmoA, a former cornerback for the San Francisco 49ers and defensive backfield coach for the team under George Seifert from 1994-95. has a 15-37 overall record in five vears as head coach at Cal. · 
California has not had a win­ning season since 1993. 
"We C(~rtainly share in his great disappointment. and wish Tom and his family well in any 
Bears (0-8, 0-6 "We had great dream 
s

in the Pacific-
when we took over the

1 0 
Conference) reins here five years ago, have lost 11 and it's unfortunate that straight dating 
many ofthose dreams

to last season, 
were not realized." 

the longest losing streak in Cal's 119­
Tom Holmoe 

year program. 
Cal head coach 

future direc­ti<~n," ath1etic
director s t e v e GI_ ad sto n e sa1id 
·1· o 1 mo e said he will 
remain with the Bears for the final three games of the season, starting with Saturday's 
home game against Southern California. 
The remaining schedule includes the annual "Big Game" against Stanford and the season finale at Rutgers, originallv scheduled for the weekend fol­lowing the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. Holmoe has not won a Big Game in four tries. 
Humors have swirled since last 

-YOUR FAMflY FUN CENTER"' 

ee&IICI MICHi 
MONDAYS & THURSDAYS 9PM~ 1Z MIDNIGHT UNLIMITED BOWLING 
--ra11~~ri111As\fiJI
t~rn•s•!·t __.... ss_.oo 
$~ PER PERSON SHOES INCLUDED Beacon Bowt,.. 42,1 o Lincomway W~ South Bend 234-4167 
; 
J 
season about Holmoe's job sta­
bility. He was given a vote of 
confidence from then-athletic 
director John Kasser. But Kasser 
resigned in the offseason and 
Gladstone. his replacement, has 
made no secret of his disappoint­
ment with the football program. 
The players have repeatedly said this season that they sup­ported Holmoe. 
"l try not to listen to it {the crit­icism), because if you start think­ing about it, you start question­ing yourself, you start question­ing what's going on," linebacker Matt Nixon said a couple of weeks ago. 
"We're a young team -and all a young team can do is get better," freshman tailback Terrell \\lilliams said. 
Cal is one of just five winless Division I-A teams this season, joining Duke, Houston, Idaho and Navy. 
The Bears. coming off a 38-24 loss to Arizona, have not gone a whole season without a win since 1897. 
The Bears have struggled this season with starting quarterback Kyle Boiler's back injury, which has kept him out of two games. They lost tailback Joe Igber, their leading rusher, for the sea­son with a broken collarbone. 
Holmoe, a fourth-round draft pick out of Brigham Young in 1983, won three Super Bowl Rings in a seven-year pro career with the 49ers. 
He returned to BYU as a grad­uate assistant coach under LaVell Edwards in 1990-91 before reuniting with forme; 49ers coach Bill Walsh as the secondary coach at Stanford. 
After his two-season stint with the 49ers, Holmoe joined the Bears staff as defensive coordi­nator, taking over as head coach the next year when coach Steve Mariucci became head coach of the 49ers. 
We're not like every other high-tech company. We're hiring. 
No one told you the hardest part of being an engineer would be finding your first job. Of course, its still possible to get the high-tech work you want by joining the U.S. Air Force. You can leverage your degree immediately and get hands-on experience with some of the most sophisticated technology on earth. To find out how to get your career off the ground, call 1-800-423-USAF or visit our Web site at airforce.com. 
~,
•:.• 

U.S. AIR FORCE 
in the second half. most of their shots were well beyond

Soccer 
the parameters of the goalie box making Irish goalie Liz

continued from page 24 
Wagner's job much easier. The Irish offense did nottrying to elevate the ball and play at full strength. Startingshoot it towards the far cor­forward Melissa Tancredi wasner. It was a designed shot. I held out of action due to a re­work on it in practice every 

day." aggravation of a knee injury she suffered earlier this year.
Shortly after Guertin's goal, Irish senior captain Mia This forced \Valdrum to juggle his lineup. Junior forward Ali
Sarkesian 
added a goal of her own 
"We will take the win, 
on a long 
shot from but I expect us to play five feet out­much better next week. ,,
side the goalie box. 
Amanda Guertin 
Sarkesian's shot landed Irish forward in the upper right corner of the net for her sixth Lovelace started in place of Tancredi. w h i l e starting defender Candace Chapman would see action at forward in the second 
half in an effort to catalyze thegoal of the season. Although lrish's offense. Starting fresh­

the Irish got the scores they man midfielder Mary Bolton
needed to win. They clearly also missed her third straightstruggled on offense in large week due to an ankle injury.
part due to an inability to pos­She unlikely to play for thesess and control the ball in the 
remainder of the Big East

midfield. 
tournament, but there is a

Although they registered 24 
possibility that she could

shots on goal, the Irish were 
return for the start of the

unable to organize a consis­
NCAA tournament in a few

tent offensive attack. 
weeks.

"We were not communicat­
Waldrum is hopeful that

ing well offensively. We failed Tancredi will be able to returnto establish any kind of offen­
sive rhythm all game." to the starting lineup this weekend when the Irish travel
Waldrum said. "\Ve did not 
to th£~ University of Rutger'sstick to the game plan we had 

Yurcak Field to take on a

practiced all week. I think the 
tough Boston College team

kids just thought that since we Friday night. If the Irish beatbeat St. John's 7-0 earlier this the Eagles, they will face theyear that all we had to do was 
winner of the University of

just show up. St. John's 
Connecticut vs. the University

deserves a lot of credit for not of West Virginia match-up in
backing down." 
the finals to be held on

\Vhile the Irish offense was unable to create scoring Sunday. opportunities in front of the St. The Irish are hoping tough 
competition raises their levelJohn's net after their first two goals. the Notre Dame of play. 

"\Ve certainly did not play

defense, led bv seniors Monica 
Gonzalez and Lindsey Jones, our best game of the season," said Guertin. "But we always
junior Vanessa Pruzinsky, and 
play our best against the

freshmen Candace Chapman 
toughest competition. We will

and Gunnar Gunnarsdottir 
take the win, but I expect us toprevented St. John's from cre­play much better next week."

ating any scoring chances of their own. In the first half, St. John's would only mount two 
shots on goal. While St. John's Contact Joe Licandro at put more pressure on the Irish jlicandr@nd.edu. 
Visit The Observer at www.nd.edu/,....,,observer 
It's lack...q~1'1 at CovW\cil Travel 
AMAZING SALE 
Stvde~t / Yovt~ / Te~c~er 
5 Days Only! Nov. 6-10! 20 European Cities Available. 
NYC to LONDON 
$95 
CHI to DUBLIN LAX to PARIS 
$133 $168 
FARES ARE ONE WAY, ROUND TRIP FARES ALSO AVAILABLE. 
Tickets are subject to availability and must be paid ,n full at time of booking. Tickets are non-refundable. Taxes and fees are extra. Additional restrictions and blackout dates apply ISIC, ITIC and IYTC card required. Valid for departure through March 2002 
1-800-2COUNCIL 
www.counciltravel.com 


Call 24 hrs. (EST) 8am Tues Nov 6 -12am Fri. Nov. 9 & 10am • 7pm Sat. Nov 10 
m
I 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, November 5, 2001 
MEN'S SWIMMING AND DIVING 

Synchronicity key in diving competition 
i 
' \\ ' By NOREEN GILLESPIE of Tennesee. "We both do Miller said. make was adjusting their Sports Writer different types of takeoffs For Maggio, currently press before takeoff, Xie 
. ' i \ meet against the University technique helps me a lot," biggest change they had to 
-you have to try and undefeated in dual meet said. Ilaving only performed
\ 
Without a word. divers change your takeoff to competition this year. the the event once at the Notre Andy Maggio and Joe Miller accommodate the other per­competition was an opportu­Dame relays and devoting pacf•d to the end of their son." nity to polish his individual only one week of practice to respective diving boards, Maggio and Miller placed skills. the event, the divers had a and perched themselves on second behind a pair of "Solo diving is a lot more much better performance thn edge. Tennesee divers during important, since it's what this time around, Xie said. 
And waited. Friday's dual meet with the we go to Big East for," he "You just have to trust 
Hocking in silence, the two University of Tennesee. said. "But sync is a fun thing that you're partner's going bobbed cautiously in sync. The duo faced off against to do. It helps having more to go," Miller said. teetering between an inr.h of No. 5 Tennesee, which than one thing to think "Once you're in the air ... bouncing board and the boasts some of the best about ... it helps me focus on thern's not much you can water that loomed below divers in the nation on its the dive a little more, and do," Maggio added, laugh­them. In the three meters of roster. The event served as block out distractions." ing. air that separated them a chance for the divers to One of the biggest benefits from the board and the work on skills that carry to the synchronized compe­
\ 
Notes: 

water. they had one task to over to individual perfor-• tition is the mental focus it 
. Tenncsce defeated the
complete: perform the same mance, according to Maggio, forces the athletes to have. 
men's swimming and divingdive, in perfect synchroniza­Miller and diving coach Xie said. 
team 134.5 to 81.5. Besides tion. Caiming Xie. "It helps the individual the synchronized diving, theQuietly counting to three. Svnchronized diving, resolve some problems men­teams competed in offbeatMaggio signaled for the two a It11 o u gh n o t a n offic iaI tally ... sometimes. mentally, events not usually seen in to leave t11e board. embark­NCAA event. was introduced it can be hard to get off the college competition, includ-_ing in a series of twists. on the world stage during board," Xie said. 
ing an underwater relay and 
turns and flips before plung­the 2000 Sydney Olympics. It also forces strict aWm­several 50-yard events. Theing into the pool -together. An official U.S. diving event, tion to technique. 
loss vvas the first in the"The most difficult part is it will probably become a "Individual divers may 
2001-02 dual meet seasonthe start," Maggio said part of college competition have a different style, and 
for the Irish. 
about the synchronized div­in the next few years, have to chance their own 
ing competition the team according to Xie. style to match others," Xie 
performed Friday during the ''I've got less experience said. 
Contact Noreen Gillespie at
men's swimming and diving than !Maggio). so seeing his For Maggio and Miller, the 
gill0843@saintmarys.edu. 

the urgency we played with in the last nine minutes was
Irish 

tremendous. And that was continued from page 24 basically all I asked them to do in the overtime was to play remained on the clock. with the same urgency." 
Notre Dame midfielder Then, in the extra frame. Justin Detter brought the ball Andreas Forstner.· in his final up the left sidf1 of the field and year of eligibility with the lobbed a pass in the direction Irish, took the ball off of a bad of the goal. After several dellections. the ball found the foot of Prescod. who finally put the Irish on the score­board. getting one past Syracuse goalie Anthony Peters and into the back right corner of tho net with just eight ticks left on the clock. 
"The longf~r you keep a team like that in the game, the more excited they get. and they thought they had ,von that game," Clark said. "I thought 

I I l 

, l 
look no further-the OIT is HIRING! 
Re.~.J.9?Pt Cowuter. ~onsultantsl$pr~n9 '0'-) 
.. 
Durl ES.· INCLll:DE: 


lNSTAllING S REPAHUtH, NEHiORK CONfH:CTIVH;'f tJf Rf.SIDHJT COMf-UTE:?.S lH ·rnE R>.:SrD~NC.t HALLS · · M{SWERING Gfl~tRAl HfTERNET $(lF.H4A~E QUESHOt~S 
I 
'f. 
; I 
I' 
j 
Apply now at http://www.nd.edu/~ndoit/employ
Crhroug.h Novcn:-.bcr 15th) 

r Qucstfons? CaU 631•• H4~7 tmai.l ahickcrsind.c<iu pass by Syracuse, and found With the win. and a loss by four," Clark said. "] said at the Goldthwaite open on the left Boston College to Pittsburgh start that if you're in the top wing. Goldthwaite launched a earlier on Saturday, the Irish four in the Big East, you've got beautiful shot past Petf~rs to have clinched a top-four posi­a chance at winning a national give the shocked Orangemen a tion in the Big East, guaran­championship." 2-1 defeat just 3:22 into over­teeing a home game in the time. quarterfinals of the Big Ea.st 
The Irish improve to 11-5 on tournament. 
Contact Bryan Kronk at 

the season. with a final confer­"That was our goal right 
bkronk@nd.edu.

ence reco.rd of 7-3. from the start, to be in the top 
CHIWA 
. ~ 
.J 
.(· !tz1 
·~ ,'ti 
...: \' 
, I 
f.~ 
i~·-.•,
. . ·t 
·~.!.-:,-' ·Di 
..__ • -,J"_;:"_,;.
..,,,.,. 
~­

STUDY, £XP£RIENCE. LEARN 
INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS. 
INFORMATION MEETING: Monday NOVEMBER 5, 2001 244 DEBARTOLO 5:00 PM 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: DECEMBER 1,·2001 
J 

Monday, November 5, 2001 page 21
The Observer . SPORTS 

ND VOLLEYBALL 
Offense, defense take turns to bring home wins 
right ftom the beginning," Irish head coach Debbie Brown said of Kreher. "I thought Kristen [Kinder] set a great match. She really kept them off guard and they really couldn't key on any one player." 
But Pittsburgh managed to stay close with an effective offense led by sophomore Wendy Hatlestad, who led the Panthers with 23 kills on a .302 hitting percentage. Despite those high totals, Brown was happy with her team's effort against Hatlestad. 
"I thought we did a pretty good job," Brown said. "I know that that's a lot of kills and a pretty decent percentage for an outside hitter but she's definitely their go-to player." 
Gini Ullery added 10 kills for Pittsburgh. The Panthers hit .257 in game one, .283 in game two and only .171 in game three en route to victory. Notre Dame totaled 12 blocks for the match, By NOAH AMSTADTER Sporrs Editor 


The Irish excelled both on offense and defense this week­end -just not at the same time. The Notre Dame volleyball team improved to 10-0 in the Big East with wins at Pittsburgh and West Virginia, but the similarities between the two matches end with the team in the win column. 
At Pittsburgh on Sunday, the Irish swept the Panthers 30-27, 30-24, 30-22 thanks to a .495 hitting percentage. Senior oppo­site Kristy Kreher led the Irish with 13 kills in 17 attempts for a . 765 percentage. 
But Kreher wasn't the only Irish player hitting accurately and often. Senior Malinda Goralski had 10 kills in 19 attempts for a .474 percentage while Kim Fletcher hit .563 and Marcie Bomhack .400. 
"She was really aggressive 
including five by Goralski. 
"Our blocking was good both [days)," Brown said. "We aver­aged four blocks a game for both matches." 
While the Irish offense proved quick and effective Sunday, it was hardly as reliable one day earlier and 70 miles south when Notre Dame took on West Virginia in Morgantown, W.V. 
The Irish hit only .219 in the four-game victory, including .188 and .162 marks in the final two games. But somehow Notre Dame topped West Virginia 30­26, 24-30, 30-27, 30-20. 
A strong Irish defense held West Virginia to .038 hitting for the match. The Mountaineers spiked down 42 kills in the match, but committed 36 attack errors. Notre Dame totaled 16 blocks and defensive specialist. Janie Aldrete had 17 digs -her ninth double-digit dig match of the season. 
On the offensive end, four Irish players reached double-digit kills. Bomhack led the way with 15 kills. Kreher and Goralski added 13 each while freshman Emily Loomis had 11 kills . 
Notre Dame struggled the most against West Virginia with serving. The Irish committed 21 service errors, a number they cut down to six on Sunday. 
"They weren't very strong offensively," Brown said. "But we didn't make them have to earn their points." 
The Mountaineer offense was led by Dimitra Havriluk's 15 kills, but Havriluk committed 12 hitting errors and finished -on a .068 mark. 
Contact Noah Amstadter at amstadter.l@nd.edu.. 

Best Pizza East of Anywherel 

Monda}'-Tuesdal'Super Deal! 
Large 1 Topping Pizza & Order of Breadsticl<s w/ Sause 
,.,,

7.99! 
(Monday & Tuesday Only) 

271-1277 
SR 23 at Ironwood
PIZZA COMPANY® 
(Next to Subway)
plzndonerlght 
Study in Notre Dame's International Study Programs in 
PUEBLA, MEXICO MONTERREY, MEXICO 
INFORMATION SESSION 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2001 5:00 PM 
319 DeBartolo 
Physics taught in Puebla in the fall semester for Pre­Professional Students Engineering courses available in Monterrey AL and BA Courses also available in both locations 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: DEC. 1, 2001 FOR F'2002, AY 2002-2003 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE: www.nd.edu/~intlstud/ 
Would you rather watch ESPN than do your homework? Write Observer sports. 
1-4543 
Page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, November 5, 2001 
HOCKEY 
No longer winless Irish prey on Wildcats 
and eventu­ally came out with a 5-4 victory. 


But the Poulln I r i s h couldn't get it done twice, and dropped the second game to the Wildcats Saturday. 
Under the coaching of Dave Poulin, the Irish had gone win­less in six straight before pick­ing up the win on Friday. The Irish have had their chances for wins in previous games, but had blown several third period leads. 
"We are one of the younger defensive units in the league," said sophomore Brett Lebda. "So with no seniors on the defense and a freshman goalie, it has been coming along.slow­ly but surely." 
In Friday's contest the Irish forged a 1-0 lead just 32 sec­onds into the game. Connor Dunlop threaded a pass 

ByMATTORENCHUK 
Sports Writer 
The Irish hockey team took an early lead on Friday, and this time didn't blow it. Notre Dame jumped out to a 1-0 lead 
o n Northern Michigan Friday, ral­lied from a 3-1 deficit, through the Northern Michigan defense to senior David Inman, who was able to one time the puck past the Northern Michigan goalie for the score. 
The Wildcats got on the board at the 5:06 mark of the period. Dave Bonk was able to get the puck past Irish goalie Morgan Cey for the score. Northern Michigan then went on to score two more goals in the next 2:47 of the first Lebda added his second goal of the game to put the Irish in front 4-3. 
In the third Northern Michigan turned up the offen­sive pressure and tied it up 
6:01 into the period. At the 
10:19 mark the Irish scored the winning goal. 
Dunlop centered a pass to Inman who was able to put it in the goal for Notre Dame's final 
goal. The Irish were 
four shots on goal. Two of those shots were goals, howev­er, that put Northern Michigan up 3-1. 
The Wildcats added another goal 4:39 into the third for the final score of 4-1. 
With the weekend split, the Irish improve their CCHA record to 1-1-2 on th~ season, and 1-5-2 overall. After a six­game road trip Notre Dame comes home this weekend. On 
period take a  to 3-1  "We are one ofthe  finally able to close out a  
lead.  younger defensive units  victory.  
In the sec­ond the Irish came back thanks to  in the league. So with no seniors on the defense and a freshman goalie, it  Dunlop came up big, with four assists to pace Notre  
t h e i r defense men and Dunlop.  has been coming along slowly but surely. ..  Dame. One was all  win the  
Defense men  Irish  could  
Lebda  and  Brett Lebda  manage.  On  
freshman Derek Smith  defenseman  Saturday, Northern  
scored three  Michigan  
second peri­ scored  first  
od  goals  to  for  the  1-0  

take a 4-3 lead into the second lead just 4:21 into the game. intermission. Lebda scored Notre Dame answered when first, with Dunlop on the assist. Mike Chin fed John Wroblewski Lebda's power play goal eight a crisp pass right in front of the minutes into the second cut the Northern Michigan net. The Wildcat lead to 3-2. Four min­goal at the 10:20 mark of the utes after that Smith was able first evened the score at 1. to put the puck home to tie the In the second, the Northern score at three. again with Michigan offense made good Dunlop on the assist. Then, use of its opportunities. The with just 1 :37 left in the second Irish held their opponents to 
Strategies for Avoiding Dangerous Situations 
Basic Self-Defense Techniques ~ Physical Dimensions of Combat ~ 
DYNAMICS CF' HAND TC HAND COMBAT 
CLASSES BEGIN MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5 10 SESSIONS ON MONDAYS & WEDNESDAYS 6:30-7 :45 PM 
ROCKNE MEMORIAL RM 21_9 
OPEN TO ALL FEMALE ND STUDENTS, FAC/STAFF& SPOUSES $12.00 REGISTRATION FEE IN ADVANCE ATRECSPORTS CLASS SIZE JS UMITED . 
ustra ia 
~'the land down under" 
Information Meeting 
Monday,Nov.5,2001 
5:15 PM 
Room 127 Hayes Healy AL & BA Majors ! 
Friday and Saturday the Irish will host CCHA opponent Ferris State. 
"It's nice to be coming home," Lebda said. "Especially since we have struggled on the road, so we want to come home and continue what we did this weekend." 
Contact Matt Orenchuk at morenchu@nd.edu. 


SAFETY & SELF-DEFENSE 

Application Deadline: December 1, 2001 Apply On-line: ·www.nd.edu/-intlstud 

Monday, November 5, 2001 page 23
The Observer . TODAY 
..., 

FOURTH AND INCHES  
WHY SHOVLI> I BUY A TAILGATING T-SHIRT?  BECAUSE THESE ARE REVERSIBLE  ON THE OUTSIDE IS THE NOTRE DAME LOGO FOR use DURING THE FOOTBALL GAME •.•  

FOXTROT 
WHAT ARE YOU OotNC:t? \  WRlTIN(', A LETTER To CBS.  WHAT FoR? r  "SURVIVOR 3: AFRtCA" HASN' Do YoU I OoN'T KNOW, SEEN DOING AS WELL AS SUPPOSE 8UT THIS ROOM ITS PREDECESSORS IN THE AFGHANI• SHOULD SE. RATINGS, So I THOUGHT STAN .IS II'O SHARE SOME tOEAS To oFF LIMITS?  
MAl<'E "SOR'IIVOR i+" MoRE ; EXCITI~. ~ ! \c::; l'1 -c. '  

RYAN

TOM KEELEY ·BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNINGHAM 

AND ON THE INSIDE IS THE OPPOSING TEAM'5 LOGO FOR POLICE-FREE TAIL.SATINS BEFORF. 

{Ysst. G:~ +k
~< ~60"s 
~i-
THE FOOTBALL &AME 

· tl\ of ~rvu1, CV\d wU i~/r-o-~()'I 
VI

J ~< tr V) 1cky5 ~e-/ei1· Svrrc,c-~ all a.SS«<--¼71\S. 
MY GOD, YOU'LL MAKE MILLIONS... 

BILL AMEND EUGENIA LAST



CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 29 Opposite of a 57 "I return• 
CELElHUTIES BORN ON Are you mixed up? Your mate or split THIS DAY: Arnold Palmer, Karl best friend is sending out confus­
1 Tax pros, for 60 Some Marx 
Lagerfeld, Amy Irving, Dan ing signals, and you aren't sure
short 33 Got some shut­Brothers humor 
Castellaneta, Miranda Wilson, what to do. Back away, observe
5 Highway eye 63 Kosher 
Guy Ritchie, Ryan Phillipe and let whoever is playing with
9 Pork or veal 37 Item beside an 
64 Haul Happy Birthday: Unleash the your emotions make the next 
cuts easy chair 
65 The O'Hara ego within and be proud of your move.000 
14 ·Au_,.. (cry in 39 Singer Guthrie spread accomplishments and talents. If LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You 
court) 40 Whopper 66 Actress Papas you take action, you will come to will express yourself with such terms with the past and embrace conviction and devotion that oth­
15 Jazzy Fitzgerald 41 Drops from the 67 Bullets 
ers will flock to your side in sup­the future. Your prospects will be

16 Media lawyer's payroll 68 Give off 
port of your beliefs. Don't let th.is 

bright as you don't dwell on
subject 42 Lucy's husband 
69 Headscratcher things you cannot change. Your added attention go to your head,17 Contribution to 43_empty 70 Grate numbers:12,23,24,33,36,43 or all will be lost. 00000 
a pot stomach 71 "Ticket to _. ARIES (March 21-April 19): SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 18 Vegetarian's 44 Sculling Delays or upsets due to trans­An interesting investment oppor­no-no equipment portation difficulties may cause a tunity will be brought to your
DOWN 

snag in your plans. Have a back­attention. You may have to per­
19 Make up for, as 45 "The Philosophy 
1 Hit the hay up plan ready. You must act suade others to help raise the
sins of Right" 
2 Kind of bean quickly if you want to meet your cash or to join this venture. 
20 First third of an philosopher 
Expect their first reaction to be

3 Prefix with deadlines. 000out 46 Mexico's TAURUS (April 20-May 20): no.000
physics

22 Overturn Villa You can make allies at work, but SAG11TARIUS {NO\r. 22-Dec. n..
4 "Try to_ my

23 Sounded like an 48 Bush's alma don't tell them all of your ideas. If you wish, you can take advan­owl mater way ... " Your popularity will grow if you tage of romantic opportunities. · 
5 Panacea do things for them, but aren't too Your self-confidence will make
24 Baby's first 50 Symbol of 
6 Toast topping quick to ask for help. 0000 you irresistible, and your spon­
word, maybe goodness 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): taneity will lead to fun adven­
7 Banking chief

26 Putin's refusal 52 Inviting smells Expect to be somewhat moody. tures. 0000
Greenspan 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 8 Went with You can expect to be praised if You may confuse others if you 
change your mind all the time.ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 Composer Your indecisive statements and you focus on the job you are Debussy uncertain actions will be difficult doing. Put your best foot forward 
Puzzle by Nonna S....... 
and dazzle everyone with your

"'!!'"'l'~~':""t-:::1-::-1 10 Countdown of to decipher. 00 
top tunes 33 Feed, as pigs 51 Award for 56 Ice-_ CANCER (June 21-July 22): A progress. 0000 34 Moon over "Crouching 57 lingerie item secret affairs would lead to trouble 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
--+....+......,.....,......,'"4 11 Woodwind 

Milano Tiger, Hidden in the workplace. If you become You can do no wrong. The time
....+--+.....,.....,,... 12 Novelist/poet Dragon" 58 Deli sandwich the topic of conversation, you will has come to feel good about Robert_ 35 Panache 59 Mellows lose the respect of colleagues. A yourself and confident that you 
Warren 53 Aquatic animal poor reputation will hinder can do whatever you like. Believe 
61 Tibetan monk 
13 Winter toy 36 Joke's end 54 Dolphin's home chances for advancement. 000 in yourself, and so will everyone
82 Supplies with 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your else.0000055 Eye-stinging weapons· need to be where the action is PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20):
-+-~.-t 21 Superman's 38 Steep-sided 
surname plateau 
Expect someone around you to ---.... 25 Bandstand 41 Put one over on other people in order to imfress be a whiner today. Try to talk will cost you plenty. Paying for 
boxes Answers to any three clues in this puzzle them will lead to financia set­about it, but if that fails, it's best
45 Towel pronoun
27 Essayist Lamb are available by touch-tone phone: backs. Take stock of your life and to distance yourself for a while. 11'tls is a time to be learning, not
...,.."'!""t............,.,.....,.....,..=-1 28 Loiter 47 Horse owner's 1 ·900-420-5656 (95C per minute)• start to budget. 000 VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): teaching. 00 
"'!""t~.............,....,....,,,...,,,... 30 Diver Louganis equipment Annual subscriptions are availabfe for the ~"!!!!"t.............,..........,..."!!"'I 31 " ... or _I" 49 Computer-on­best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 Birthday Baby: You are dashing, daring and debon:arr. Your color­
________ 32 Stir up 

the-go years: H388·7-ACROSS. ful, comforting manner will make you popular..You will have a won­derful outlook on life with your unique perspective. . (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvtce.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 10 2001 Universal Press Syndicate 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

Learn to Skate with Your 
.. 
NOTRE-DAME 


* FREE ,~!;T:~,-~ sandw·1ches11
i1:2'rl~ff'J//;IM ¦ ¦ 
HOCKEY *Open to 1st 200 students. 
*learn to skate like apro. 
FOR FREE!! TEAM 
*Skate rental auailable 
,....

Monday, Nov. 5th 
*Win jerseys, gift certificates, (or bring your own).
9:30 -10:30 pm
and much more!! 

:Enter §ate 3 at the Joyce Center. 

' 

Campus Sports 
. 
Hockey, p. 22 

. 
ND Volleyball, p. 21 

. 
Men's Swimming and Diving, p. 20 

. 
ND Cross Country, p. 28 


O
THE 
BSERVER 


Monday, November 5, 2001 
National Sports 
. 
PGA, p. 17 

. 
NCAA Football , p. 16 

. 
MLB, p. 16 

. 
NFL, p. 14 



ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish calm Red Storm 
By JOE LICANORO 
Sports Wrirer 
The Notrn Dame women's soccer team owns the Big East Tournament. 
In fact. the Irish have not lost a game in the tourna­ment since joining the con­ference seven years ago. Notre Dame's 
quest "To be honest. I arn very St. John's 
for a disappointed with our outplayed S e V -the Irish
performance today. " 

en th -in the sec­straight ond half. Big East Randy Waldrum but were 
t. i t l e unable to
head coach 

began Sunday at home with a 2-0 victory against St.' John's. Although they were not as dominant as they were a month ago in their 7 -0 victory against the Red Storm, the Irish were still good enough to advance to the next round of the tour­nament. 
"To be honest, l am very disappointf~d with our per­formance today." said head coach Handy \Valdrum. "Thf' only reason why we won today is because we are a more talented team 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Irish comeback seals Win 
• OT goal brings Notre Dame 
/ victory in Big East finale . 
By BRYAN KRONK 
Sporrs 'X'rirer 
Down .a goal late in the sec­ond half. NotrP Dame men's soccer coach Bobby Clark told his team to play with some urgency. It couldn't have gotten more urgent for the Irish. 
In a thriller that didn't ,rnd until thP final whistle. Devon Presr:od knocked in a goal with eight seconds remaining in regulation. and freshman Kevin· Goldth\vaite found thP net first in sudden death overtime as the Irish over• 
f 
came a latf' deficit" to stun the Syracuse Orangemen, 2-1. 
"This is what builds the 

SPORTS 
AT AGLANCE 

than St. John's. They out­worked and outhustled us today. \Ve'll take the win. but \Ve must play better in the next round." 
The beg~nning of the game looked like a mirror image of' the Irish 's earlier lopsided victory against the Red Storm with the Irish scoring two quick goals in the first half. But 
capitalize 
for the 
win. 
Amanda Guertin scored Notre Dame's first goal less than eight minutes into the first half on a swerving corner kick that eluded the reach of St. John's goalie Tina Fogg. \\'ith the goal. Guertin 's second corner kick of the season extended her scoring streak to six straight games. 
"The wind certainly · helped the ball go in the goal." Guertin said.. "I was 
see SOCCER/page 19 

character of our team. It would have been very easy to give up [after Syracusp's laie goall. but I was very imprcssrd." Clark said. 
A season-high attendance of 1.501 turned out to \Vitness a dt>fensive battle between two Big East rivals. ·with the statistical edge going heavily in favor of thf' Irish. 
Although thr: game was scon~less at halftimr:. the Irish led the Orange men in shots in the first half 11-3. and led the corner kick battle 
8-0. 

The battle of the defense continur:d in the second half. Syracuse defender· Derek \1cGcehan was whistled for two yellow cards in a span of eight and a ha.If minutes, leading to his ejection with 
26:26 remaining, and forcing the Orangemen to play the remainder of the game with only 10 players on the tiflld. 
However, unfazed by the disadvantage. the Syracuse offense went into high gear. With 9:40 left in the second half, Syracu~e forward Matt Torok passed the ball to Kirk Johnson. Johnson passed it to Darren [ngles, who chipped a shot from the left side that curved past Irish goalie Chris Sawyer and found the right side of the net to put the Orangemen ahead 1-0. 
"\Vhen we lost the goal with nine minutes to go, the guys showed tremendous charac­ter. persistence and discipline to keep playing and making chances," Clark said. 
After the goal. it seemed the lead would stand up. Irish sc:oring chances surfaced. but none materialized into a scor-• ing play. 
That is, until 20 seconds 
see IRISH/page 20 

. 
Women's Basketball vs. Ohio Girls' Basketball Magazine, Tuesday, 7:30 p.m. 

. 
Men's Basketball vs. EA Sports All-Stars, Thursday, 


7:30 p.m. 

MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Arizona shocks New York in seven 
Associated Press 
Pl lOENIX 
The final comeback belonged to the Arizona Diamondbacks. and it was the greatest of all. 
Luis Gonzalez hit an HBI sin­gle to cap a two-run rally off Mariano Hivera in the bottom of the ninth inning, and Arizona stunned the New York Yankees 3-2 in Game 7 of the World Series on Sunday night. 
The Yankees were onlv two outs from their fourth straight World Series title when it all fell apart. 
Tonv \Vomack tied it with an HBI double and. after Craig Counsell was hit by a pitch to load the bases. Gonzalez blooped a soft single to center field. 
Rivera. who had saved 23 straight postseason games. could do nothirig but watch the ball rail in to end the Yankees' dynasty. 
\Vhat began as a Nov<'mbcr duel between Curt Schilling and Hoger Clemens climaxed with the Diamondbacks win­ning the title in just ~heir fourth year of' existence. It was the fastest rise in history. breaking the mark of fivP 
,years set by the 1997 Florida :ViarIi ns. 
The Diamondbacks did it by bouncing back from two of the toughest hisses in Series histo­ry. They dropped Games 4 and 5 at Yankee Stadium. blowing 
see SERIES/page 18 

OBSERVER 
o n t i n e edition 
http://www.nd.edu/ ~observer 

O
THE Monday, November 5, 2001 BSERVER Tennessee 28, Notre Dame 18 
·Losing their grip 
Irish let golden opportunity for upset slip through their hands 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sporrs Editor 
The Irish just couldn't keep their 
hands on the ball and they couldn't get 
their hands around a victory. 
An Irish team that only turned the 
ball over eight times last year found 
itself plagued with turnovers again, los­
ing two fumbles in the red zone and 
throwing an interception during a 28-18 
loss to the seventh-ranked Tennessee 
Volunteers on Saturday. 
"We had the two fumbles in the red 
zone and those hurt us," said tailback 
Tony Fisher after the game.· "Those 
were points that were supposed to be 
automatic whether they were three or 
six." 
Entering the game, the Irish offense 
faced a challenge from a Tennessee 
defense that is ranked seventh in the 
nation. But Notre Dame netted 146 
passing yards, the most passing yards 
the Irish have had all season, and man­
aged to put together a 62-yard scoring 
drive in the second quarter and a 75­
yard scoring drive in the fourth quarter. 
But the turnover story told the tale and 
the Irish began the month of November 
with a loss. 
"We made some mistakes that kept us 
from winning," head coach Bob Davie 
said. "We had every opportunity to win 
this game today and we didn't." 
The Irish were within scoring range four times in the first half and only managed to put three points on the board before halftime. After mounting a 75-yard scoring drive in the second half, the Irish only trailed the Volunteers by a field goal with three minutes to go in the fourth quarter. Volunteers linebacker Dominique Stevenson intercepted a pass from Carlyle Holiday that ended any hopes of an Irish victory. 
"It's been the worst time I've ever had," senior linebacker Hocky Boiman said. "We had the game, we had a great possibility of winning that game. then we just kind of let it slip away with cer­tain things there at the end. And I'm just real disappointed with us right now." 
The interception set up a one-yard touchdown run by Volunteers quarter­back Casey Clausen that clinched the victory for Tennessee. 
"I couldn't see enough of [the touch­down] to know if he ended in the end zone," said Tennessee head coach Phillip Fulmer. "I turned straight to the referee and looked at his arms. vVhen they went up, I was one happy camper." 
The interception was just one in a long list of turnovers that robbed the Irish of scoring opportunities and dropped them to 3-5 on the season. 
Early in the second quarter with no score on the board, the Irish had a chance to take an early lead. Flanker /\rnaz Battle, vd10 has seen limited playing time due to injuries, took the ball from the Tennessee 18 and rushed 



It was his dream to play at Notre Dame, but when coaches said he wasn't good enough, things became personal. Clausen was 17-of-29/or 228 yards. and his one­yard touchdown run clinched the game. 
for 17 yards before he fumbled on the one-yard line. Volunteers right end Constantin Ritzmann recovered and stopped the Irish scoring drive. 
"It was like it was slow motion when it happened," Battle said after the game. "I laid there because I knew I 
. couldn't get to the ball. Slow motion, it felt like a dream. I couldn't believe this could happen." The Irish were within scoring range again in the second quarter when fresh­man Ryan Grant, who rushed for 18 yards and had six carries in the first half, took the handoff from Holiday and fumbled the ball at the Tennessee 19­yard line. The Volunteers Julian Battle recovered the fumble and returned it 81 
player of the game 
Casey Clausen 
yards for a Tennessee touchdown, giv­ing the Volunteers the lead instead of the Irish. 
"I just fumbled. I'm not going to make any excuses," Grant said. 
After Nicholas Setta completed a 41­yard field goal in the second quarter. Irish linebacker Courtney Watson returned the first interception of his career for a touchdown in the third quarter to put the Irish up 10-7. 
But Travis Stephens, who rushed for 63 yards, rushed three yards for the first Volupteer offensive touchdown and a 14-10 lead. Clausen, who passed for 228 yards, found Donte Stallworth open in the end zone to extend the lead to 21­10. 
quote of the game 
"We had every opportunity to win this game today and we didn't. " 
Bob Davie Irish head coach 
"I think their quarterback delivered the ball pretty well," Davie said. " ... They made plays when they had to make plays. They take advantage of the weapons they have." 
On fourth down, a six-yard reception by Irish flanker David Givens, who had a season-high 99 receiving yards, kept an Irish scoring drive alive that resulted in a one-yard touchdown run by Fisher. Fisher, who rushed for 40 yards, caught a pass from Holiday for a successful two-point conversion that put the Irish within three poi.nts before Holiday threw the game-ending interception. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 
stat of the game 
2 turnovers in the red zone 
Two great scoring opportunities were negated by turnovers. F'irst Battle fumbled on the 1 -yard line. then Grant's fumble on the 19-yard line was returned for a touchdown. 
,,,
,E2.> 
Monday, November 5, 2001 

page 2 The Observer . IRISH INS ID ER 
report card 

B 
quarterbacks: Holiday showed he can throw the ball when the option game 
is taken away. However, his intercep­tion at the end killed Notre Dame's hopes for an upset. 

C+ 
running backs: Granted. the Irish were going against a top-notch defensive front. But they didn't do anything 
special. and Grant's fumble was a 
dagger in the heart. 

B+ 
receivers: Givens had a career day catching the ball, and Owens ran like a freight train after the catch. But 
A-
Battle's fumble on the 1-yard line hurt a lot. offensive line: Notre Dame's offensive line played the best game of the sea­son. With Black at guard, it appears 
as if the Irish finally have their five 
best linemen. 

A-
defensive line: Holding the nation's 
third best rusher to only 63 rushing 
yards is an impressive feat. 

linebackers: For the second week in aA row, Harrison led the Irish in tackles. Watson's interception briefly gave the momentum to Notre Dame. 
defensive backs: They did a good job early, but once the Volunteers spread the field

C+and Oausen started throwing, the Irish got in trouble. While Walton broke up a lot of passes, he can't do everything. 
special teams: Setta hit another long • 
field goal, Hildbold buried the 

B+Volunteers with a great early punt and the coverage teams were good. But the Irish are still looking for a big return or a block. 
B+ 
coaching: The coaches showed cre­ativity in their play calling and had a solid game plan in place. But you 
start wondering if all the fumbles 
are the players' or coaches' fault. 
overall: Turnovers killed the 
Irish. They had the No. 7 
team in the country on the

3.22 
ropes early and let the game slip away-literally. 
adding up th·e numbers 
yards Notre Dame produced 
198 
offensively in the first half 
70 yards Notre Dame produced offensively in the second half 
yards Holiday passed for in 
146 
Saturday's game -a career high 
receiving yards recorded by
99 Givens -a career high and the most by any Notre Dame receiver this season 
yards Clausen passed for in 
15o 
the third quarter alone ­he finished with 288 
69 percentage of Tennessee's offen­sive yards that came in the sec­ond half 
number of tackles recorded by the 
1 
Volunteer's Henderson, last 
year's Outland Trophy winner 
1 student ejected from Saturday's game for removing his pants 

INSIGHT 

In the first half Saturday, Irish tight end John Owens caught two passes -for 40 yards. 
In fact, four Irish receivers caught passes in that first half as quarter­back Carlyle Holiday com­pleted 10 of 16 passes without throwing an interception. Whod 've thunk it? 
Notre Dame's coaches finally · took the hand­Noah cuffs off the Amstadter offense. David Givens carried the ball from Sports Editor scrimmage on one play, and sprinted up the middle to catch a pass on the next. 


For the first time since Holiday took over behind center at Texas A&M, the opposing defense showed enough concern about Holiday's multiple offensive options to leave receivers open. And, again for the first time, Holiday hit those receivers. 
This 2001 edition of this Irish offense -before Saturday about as conservative as Rush Limbaugh and as likely to take a risk as a convict on parole -let it all hang out. 
They played like they had nothing to lose. Of course, as Bob Davie's "most talented team" entered Notre Dame Stadium with four losses, they really didn't have anything to lose. 
Many o_f Notre Dame's offensive opportunities Saturday opened up thanks to a position change on the defensive line. With Jordan Black switched from tackle to guard, the Irish countered one of the nation's toughest defenses with an imposing and experienced foursome of Black, Brennan Curtin, Sean Mahan and Kurt Vallers at guards and tackles with center Jeff Faine anchoring the middle. 
"I thought our offensive line played their best game of the year," Davie said after the game. "I thought Jordan Black did some really good things at guard. I thought Curtain and Vollers did some good things at tackle." 
I won't argue Davie's assessment. Holiday had time to make decisions. The backs had room to move. But why should it take an injury to the struggling Sean Milligan for Davie to put these four in there together? 
The same confusion entered my mind when I saw Ryan Grant carry­ing the ball. Granted -no pun intended -the freshman single­mishandedly changed the flow of the game when he fumbled in the second quarter. 
But before that fateful play, Grant opened the drive with a 10-yard dash from scrimmage and later had consecutive rushes for six and eight yards. Then he dropped himself into the Turnover Doghouse, a small edi­fice in Davie's backyard previously inhabited only by Terrance Howard. 
Grant never saw the inside of the gridiron again. After the fumble, he might as well have put on street clothes at halftime. 
"We probably should have put him back in," Davie admitted on Sunday. "You just hate to take it out of those older guys hands, especially after that turnover." 
Putting Grant in the game in the first place, rather than a three-headed monster of mediocrity and lingering injuries narned Julius Fishoward, is the kind of move a 3­4 team makes when trying to find· the missing link. 
It's the kind of move Davie and Kevin Rogers made when they turned to Holiday, who amidst this disaster of a season won three of his first four starts. 
Benching a promising player made the Irish offense that more predictable late in the game. 
When Courtney Watson returned his first career interception for a touchdown and gave the Irish a 10­7 lead, the headlines began flying in my head. 
"Anti-Irish send Volunteers Home" or "Unchained team steps it up" maybe even ".500 again." 
But, alas, the Irish sunk back into their predictable ways from that point on. The pass protection broke down late in the game when it was needed most. The Irish ate up 8:10 of the fourth quarter on the drive to bring them within three points. 
So after a week off to consider what the upset could have been, the Irish should have a chance to try out any and every off ensivc option when the Midshipmen dock in South Bend Nov. 18. 
So let's see Grant carry the ball. Let's see the best four players up front. Let's see Holiday hit an open Owens, an open Arnaz Battle and ­please -an open Javin Hunter. Why? Let's face it, after Saturday, what do the Irish have to lose? 
Noah Amstadter can be reached at Amstadter.1@nd.edu. The views ofthis column are those ofthe author and are not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


Monday, November 5, 2001 page 3 
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
Multi-talented Givens has 'best football game ever' 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Associate Sports Editor 
He can run. He c;an catch. He 
can throw. 
In fact, it doesn't seem like there's a whole lot Notre Dame flanker David Givens can't do ­when he's healthy. 
Early in the season, Givens spent play after play on the side­lines, hampered by an assort­ment of nagging injuries. He only saw limited action against Michigan State and Texas A&M and, before Saturday, was only averaging a little over three catches a game. 
But against the Volunteers, a healthy Givens arguably played the best game of his life. He caught a career-high nine pass­es for 99 yards -the most by any Notre Dame receiver this season -and rushed four times for 11 yards. 
"I thought David Givens played the best football game he's played," head coach Bob Davie said. "I thought he competed exceptionally well. He made some plays, ran the ball, I was really proud of the way he played. He's not been healthy, and it's good to have him back and give him a chance to play the way he did yesterday." 
"I felt like I was kind of in a zone today," Givens said. "I think our total offense was real­ly in a zone today. We were just driving the ball up and down the field." 
Givens made it a lot easier for the Irish -who finished with a season-high 146 passing yards -to move the ball down the field simply by being in the game. The Notre Dame receiver was often double-covered in the second half and made several key catches to keep the Irish in the game. 
With the Irish trailing 21-10 early in the fourth quarter and facing fourth-and-three on the Tennessee 18-yard line, quarter­back Carlyle Holiday took three quick steps back and fired a bul­let to Givens across the middle. 
Even though a pair of Tennessee defenders were draped all over Givens, he pulled the ba1l in for a six-yard gain and a first down. Six plays later, Tony Fisher scored Notre Dame's only offensive touch­down to bring the Irish to within three points. 
"I think it was a tough pass to catch, but I think Carlyle was the one that help~d me out the most with that," Givens said. "He put it right in the open area with zone coverage and I kind of sift­ed through the defenders and Carlyle found me in that shuf­
..

fle. That wasn't the only clutch reception Givens made Saturday afternoon. Earlier in that same ­drive. facing third-and-four, Holiday threw a pass toward the right sideline. Givens raced over, grabbed the ball and somehow kept his foot inbound for a 14­yard gain. And on the first half drive that led to Nicholas Setta's 41-yard field goal, he caught three passes, including one that he pulled in despite being triple­covered. "He stepped up today," Holiday said. "A lot of the time he was one of the main reads. He is a senior and I think he showed that today. He made played and just stepped up for the most part." Givens did more that just step up. He kept Notre Dame in the game. His nine receptions were the most of any Irish receiver since Bobby Brown caught 12 passes in ·1999 and his 99 receiving yards were the most since Joey Getherall recorded 116 last year against Air Force. But Givens' talents aren't just limited to catching the ball. He carried the ball several times Saturday afternoon to give the Irish offense an element of unpredictability. He threw a 21­yard pass to Javin Hunter last week. He even took a couple snaps at quarterback during Notre Dame's loss to Michigan State last year. Saturday, Givens lined up sev­eral times in the Irish backfield, a move Davie said was designed to disguise Notre Dame's three­back set. In the past, the Irish had only used the flanker as a blocker. But against the Volunteers, Givens actually car­ried the ball. "We've been practicing it for a few weeks and we just kind of put it all together this week and 

it kind of worked out," Givens said. " ... I'm becoming more comfortable as a receiver in this offense now just because I've worked so hard at that as com­pared to running the ball. But it's pretty even as far as my pref­erence." 
It's surprising Givens played so well considering that he spent most of Thursday in the infir­mary with the flu. But he wasn't 
scoring summary & stats 
scoring 1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total Notre Dame 0 3 7 8 18 
0 1 14 7 28
Tennessee 
team statistics ND UT
Oki. 

first downs 
20 16 rushes-yards 45-122 34-78
'~]iii.$ 
passing yards 146 .228 7 Oregori > comp-att-int 13-24-1 17-29-1 
s. Washingl~~ return yards 68 64 punts-yards 4·169 4-131
~d:!::~:;; ••~~~Ji'jt~. ···•·):]~t~~t ~1'.!!1; 
fumbles-lost 2-2 1-1
··•. -· )41\ 

penalties-yards 7-53 8-56
H1~llft't~,,\!~ 
.: :: >};¾~~1~~tl~i 9 8 time ofpossession 33:03 26:57 ·!{1j1J:lm!!n, individual statistics 
· 1!i\''f llllri' .. ·•·:l;:tcr!~j1i*•··••·~:·.•••,:1 •·0r1 passing ·1&•··?•tsranrora.... ·2 .··•·.731 ·•. ND -Holiday 13-24-1 17 UCLA ·2 . 693 
UT -Clausen 17-29-1 
18-Syracuse 1~2. 588 19 Georgia. 5·2 556 . rushing 20 Georgia Tech 6·2 501 ND -Jones 10-46, Fisher 11-40, Grant 6-18, Battle 1-17, 
21 Colorado 7-2 . 389 Givens 4·11, toplenski 1-(·2), Holiday 12·(-8) 22 Michigan State· 5·2 .287 . UT -Stephens 24-63, Fleming 4-12, Clausen 6-2 23 Virginia Tech · 6-2 221 
receiving
24 ltuburn-6·2 125 
ND -Givens 9-99, Owens 2-40,Hunter 1-8, Fisher 1·(-1)
25 Louisville 8·1 · 121 
UT -Washington 5-59, Parker 4-59, Stallworth 3-84, Witten 2-23 
other leading vote getters: Purdue 94, Texas leading tacklers 
A&M 32, North Carolina 30, Marshall 29, Arkansas 27, ND -Harrison 9, Sapp 8, Watson 8, Weaver 6, Earl 6
Boston College 27, Mlsslsslppl 26, NOTRE DAME 0 UT -Baker 9, Stevenson 7, Greer 6, Moore 6, Overstreet 5, Burnett 5 
about to let anything stop him from playing against the No. 7 • team in the nation. And while he admits he hasn't caught the ball nearly as much as he wants to, Givens is just happy he's finally contributing. 
"I think I played my heart out," he said. "I think I played as hard as I could today, and that was the mentality that everybody had coming into the game today." 
"I thought he played terrific," said offensive coordinator Kevin Rogers. "He made plays. He played like a warrior and car­ried the ball. He played like the way that we're used to seeing David Givens play. He just had a great game." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asou.kup@nd.edu 

I 
I 
I 
I 
I I 
scoring I 
. 
summary 1st 
No scoring 
2nd 

UT-5:12 
Battle 81-yd. tumble return 
Walls kick, 11-7 
ND -0:27 FG Salta 41-yd., 3·7 
3rd 

ND -13:23 Watson 31•yd. Interception return Setta kick, 10·7 
UT-8:19 Stephens 3•yd. run Walls kick, 10·14 
UT-1:14 
Stallworth 17-yd. pass from Clausen Walls kick, 10-21 
4th 

ND -8:04 Fisher l•yd. run Holiday to Fisher, 18-21 
UT· 0:35 
Clausen 1-yd. run 
Walls kick, 18·28 other leading vote getters: Auburn 113, Texas A&M 71. Marshall 57, Boston College 50, Fresno State 26, Clemson 19. Texas Tech 16, NOTRE DAME 0 

O
THE Tennessee 28, Notre Dame 18 BSERVER Monday, November 5, 2001 

NELLIE WILLIAMS/The Observer 

Notre Dame defensive backs fly over the line of scrimmage as they try to stop Tennessee's Travis Stephens from scoring. Clausen scored on a 1-yard drive a few plays later. 
ANOTHER ONE  Notre Dame controlled Tennessee in the first half and shut down tailback Travis Stephens, but their turnovers kept them off the scoreboard. But when quarterback Casey Oausen started throwing the ball  
in the second half, it was all over. Oausen threw for 150 yards in the third quarter alone, leading the  
Volunteers on a 14-point explosion, and the Volunteers escaped with a win.  
GETS-AWAY  








