
Dervish plays to large crowd
SUNNY 
Monday 

The Irish band performed traditional Irish music to a crowd of Saint 
HIGH 71° 
OCTOBER 1,
Mary's and South Bend community members. 
LOW 54° 
news . page 3 
2001 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL. XXXV NO. 25 ., HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



Students react to another Irish fumble 
By JASON McFARLEY News Editor 
Notre Dame football was always u big deal in the Kurowski house­hold. 
"My dad is an alum, and since I was little, my everybody in my 
family has been  a  big fan  of' the  
football  team."  said  Katie  
Kurowski,  now  a  freshman  at the  
University.  

But fol!o,ving an 0-3 start this season, the program, among the most storied and successful in col­lege sports, has lost its appeal. 
And it's not just in the Kurowski's Crown Point, Ind., home, but among a Notre Dame student body that has traditionally rallied behind its football team. 
"It's kind of' disappointing, because in the last few years they haven't done as well as in the past," Kurowski said Sunday. "It's sort of hurt my excitement about the team." 
O.n Saturday, an embarrassing 24-3 loss at Texas A&M held the Irish winless in three games this season. The defeat signaled the worst start in the 114-year history of the Notre Dame football pro­gram. 
Notre Dame lost its season-open­e r at Nebraska on Sept. 8. Michigan State beat the team in Notre Dame Stadium on Sept. 22: 
"In general, people don't seem as pepped up at all for the team and the games," said sophomore MicheUe Westhoefer. 
"It's really depressing," said Katie Remenih, also a sophomore. "I think a lot of students are start-
see FUMBLE/page 4 

Texas A&M right outside linebacker Jarrod Penright takes quaterback Matt LoVecchio down in the Aggies 24-3 win (left). Penright made five tackles Saturday while Lo Vecchio, who replaced the injured Carlyle Holiday at halftime, passed for just 48 yards. He also threw an interception. Strong safety Terrence Kiel pulls Julius Jones down by his face mask. Kiel was assessed a 15-yard personal foul on the play. Jones ran for just 32 yards in the loss. 


ND releases latest crime statistics 
By JASON McFARLEY 
Associate News Ediror 
Notre Dame's 2000 crime statistics indicate higher occurrences of sexual assault and other serious crimes, according to a statistical report relased rriday by Notre Dame Security/Police. 
The 2000 statistics indicated six cases of forcible sexual assault, including five reported incidents on campus. 
In 1999, only one sex offense, a forcible on-campus rape was reported. 
Among the sexual assaults listed in 2000 NDSP crime data were two forcible rapes and four reports of forcible fondling. Three of the fondling cases occurred on campus. 
Other crimes also rose in 2000. 
There were two robberies last year compared to none two years ago. 
Security/Police fielded 17 reports of motor vehicle theft in 2000, up from 15 in 1999. 
And in 2000 the department responded to two arsons. including one on campus. There were no reported arsons in 1999. 
Data in less serious crime categories showed mixed trends. 
For example. liquor law arrests fell from 28 in 1999 to only 14 in 2000. But in both years, four of the arrests occurred on campus. 
Liquor law violations referred for disciplinary action rose slightly from 91 two years ago to 95 last year. In 2000, however, 26 of those cases involved on-campus students. while in 1999. only 14 did. 
Drug law arrests took a big dip from 11 in 1999 to 3 in 2000. 
There were 12 drug viola­tions referred for disciplinary action in 1999 compared to 5 in 2000. All the referrals were of on-campus students. 
Larcenies, or thefts, remained almost constant, with 488 in 1999 and 486 in 2000. Thirty-one larcenies were on-campus incidents two years ago, while 27 were last year. 
In neither year were cases of murder, negligent manslaugh­ter or illegal weapons posses­sion reported. 
"The security of all members of the campus community is of paramount concern to the University... ," NDSP officials wrote in a mass e-mail to stu­dents, faculty and staff Friday afternoon. 

A report with information for the 2001-2002 school year was expected to be available today, according to the e-mail. 
Notre Dame, in accordance with federal law under the Cleary Act, publishes an annu­al report summarizing security information and crime statis­tics. The reports detail crime­reporting procedures. University safety programs and most recently information about support services avail­able to sexual assault victims. 
Since last fall, the University has printed two brochures describing courses of action for rape victims. 
The brochures were among a set of changes Notre Dame made to its sexual assault poli­cy following student concerns in the spring of 2000 about rape on campus. The campus outcry spurred three other changes: 
. 
A provision in the 2000-01 edition of du Lac, the student handbook, that clarified that victims would not be subject to disciplinary action in connec­tion with alcohol or parietals violations related to sexual assault. 

. 
The formation of a com­mittee of students, faculty, Notre Dame department heads and Sex Offense Services coun­selors to advise University offi­cials on issues and procedures pertaining to sexual· assault. 

. 
The appointment of Ava Preacher, assistant dean of the College of Arts & Letters as the official resource person for rape victims. 


Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley@nd.edu. 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Monday, October 1, 2001 
r 
f 
INSIDE COLUMN THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Daring to underachieve 
In the frenzy of these past days, I am certain I have completely lost my mind. I first noticed the phenomenon during one of my frequent late-night efforts to overachieve. The time was approximately 4:20 a.m., and I could not find the novel that I needed to read for my 9:00 a.m. class for the life of me. 
With less than five hours on the clock to locate the blasted book -and then read it -I scattered the contents of my book bag all over the ground, threw every piece of clothing out of my drawers, and inter­rogated all three stuffed animals in my room about the location of this book. Unfortunately the animals refused to speak-like they typically do in the wee hours of the night-so I severely damaged their little bodies and continued the search on my own. 
As the sun was rising outside my window a mere two hours later, I found my book conve­niently tucked away in the refrigerator next to the carton of expired milk. Yes, exactly where l left it. 
As my terrific luck would allow, this "mis­placed" book incident was the just the begin­ning of what I consider the most pathetic series events I have ever experienced. In the day that followed, I also lost my student ID card and later realized that a friendly chap had stolen my bike. I immediately checked my refrigerator for both of these items, but found only .the same carton of old chunky milk that my room­mate claims she will still drink. 
All of my classes that day were useless. I could not focus my mental energy because a disgusting thought dawned on me in the middle of my chemistry lecture. I realized that my middle-aged professor, whose identity will remain anonymous to protect the innocent, could actually rank among the top five most attractive men I have seen in weeks. 
The reality of it all forced me to scope out a greater variety of the opposite sex and enjoy the fine cuisine of the South Dining Hall on the lovely Notre Dame campus. As I waited patient­ly for the shuttle bus that was running 45 min­utes behind schedule, I absentmindedly pon­dered the existence of cosmic bananas. I won­dered if there were such a thing as cosmic bananas, would Tony the Tiger want them served on Kellogg's Frosted Flakes? 
The answer to this question isJhat I have completely lost my mind. In light of this, I have boycotted all homework and other educational efforts. My life is devoted to eating Oreos with sour milk, hoping to one day find my lost mind where I found my lost book. Until that day. I shall persevere for the cause and do absolutely nothing. In the presence of mass numbers of overachievers, I have dared to underachieve. 
Victory is mine, and it feels super good. 
Contact Sheila Egts at egts0236@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Sheila Egts 
New_s Copy 
Editor 
CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards irsdf as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Ob!Crver (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and \r.lattion periods. The Observer is a member of the Associaccd Press. All reproduction rights are rese.-ved. 
Monday Tuesday 
. Pride Week picnic: 4 to . Pride Week race: 
6:30 p.m., Saint Mary's Oktoberfest Run/Walk, Library Green 5:30 p.m.. outside Angela 
. Film: "American Athletic Facility Dream," followed by dis­. Film: "YiYi." 7 p.m., cussion on American labor Montgomery Theater history. 4 p.m., C-100 Hesburgh Center 
Compiled from U•Wire reports

BEYOND CAMPUS 

IU police remove potential identity theives 
BLOOMINGTON, IN 
California resident Ron Jenkins and three others were thrown ol'f campus after illegally soliciting per­sonal information from Indiana University (IU) students Thursday. 
Plain-clothed IU police officers approached a group of three men and one woman who were collcct­ing credit card applications between the fndiana Memorial Union and Maxwell Hall. 
Two of the four were connected to a report filed by an IU student last week that suggested her per­sonal information might have been stolen. police said. 
Police have no proof to suggest the group has stolen the identity of any IU students, said Lt. Jerry Minger. The group was not charged 


UNIVERSITY OF OREGON 

Anti-Nike sentiment remains strong 
EUGENE, Ore. 
Nike CEO Phil Knight's recent decision to donate money to the University or Oregon ended a 17-month estrangement between the University and Knight, but also reminded students of the conflict that initially destroyed his trust and caused his disappearance. Many students have not forgotten the campus protest in April 2000, which pressured University President Dave Frohnmayer to sign on to the Worker Rights Consortium, a labor monitoring group that conflicted with Knight's interests. Although students have not seen similar demonstations recently, the anti-sweatshop movement has not completely lost its momentum on campus, according to students and faculty members involved in past protests. Student activist and Randy Newnham said the movement and its focus have evolved since he partic­ipated in the 2000 protests. "A lot of us were discour­aged and many of us have graduated and moved on," he said. "But I see many new faces and passionate people that are bringing in new perspectives and ideas." 

LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

AccuWeather'" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
/ 
I 


q_~_Q_,4-~Q~ ~ u 

Showers T-stom1s Ram Flumes Snow tee Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Anodated Pffis GraphicsNst 


with a crime, but did mislead its intentions to students, Minger said. 
"They were misrepresenting themselves to the people they were getting information from." Minger said. "We were told by the company that they sometimes work for that 
OKLAHOMA STATE UNIVERSITY 
Court blocks plane wreckage removal 
STILLWATER, Okla. 

A temporary injunction granted Thursday afternoon by an Oklahoma County district court will prevent the mov­ing of wreckage from the Jan. 27 Colorado plane crash involving 10 members and affiliates of' the Oklahoma State University men's basketball team, as requested by the father of victim Nate fleming. Zane Fleming sought the court order, an ordinary pretrial action, so evidence could be preserved in the form that the National Transportation Safety Board organized it. The board will most likely issue its final report with analysis and recom­mendations concerning the crash next year, a year to a year and a half after the event, said Ted Lopatkiewicz, deputy director of public affairs. Because the injunction was granted, Fleming and bis lawyer, John Norman, will be able to send their own experts to the crash site to examine evidence and further evaluate findings of the NTSB. "It's important to me to know who was responsi­ble for my son's death," Fleming said. "Planes don't just fall from the sky." 

NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon.Monday, Oct. 1. 
80s70•-=t> 
FRONTS: 
........ ........... ........... 

02001 AccuWeather, lrac. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
i'rffSIH'S: 

® © . . D. D CJ CJ 
High Law Showers Rain T-1lorrn• Flurrlosi Snow le• Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
V111Aai,11oa<1l•dPt-.,... 

Atlanta 78 54 Las Vegas 84 70 Portland 56 45 Baltimore 68 57 Memphis 70 62 Sacramento 66 48 Boston 64 47 Milwaukee 50 43 St. Louis 61 54 Chicago 68 58 New York 65 59 Tampa 72 54 Houston 82 66 Philadelphia 64 56 wasnington DC 65 54 
Wednesday 

. 
Pride Week pep rally: 7 to 8 p.m., Angela Athletic Facility 

. 
Lecture: "Do Non-u.s. Citizens Depress U.S. Citizens' Wages in lnrormation Technology?" 3 p.m.. 203 O'Shauglmessy 


they do campaigns, but this partic­ular company said they had nothing going on in this area." 
Greg McClure, the detective in charge of the case, would not release the name of the Indianapolis-based advertising company the group said it was working for. 
Jenkins, one of the four asked to leave campus, said he worked ror H & J Professional Promotions. lie added his group was not in Bloomington to fraudulently obtain students' personal information, including Social Security numbers. 
"VVe're not giving out fake infor­mation," said Jenkins, walking past the Student Building away from campus. "And we're not stealing numbers. We're legit." 
Thursday 
. 
Pride Week film: "Save the Last Dance," 8 p.m., Saint Mary's Library Green 

. 
Lecture: 'The Impact or Population Movement on Ethnic Violence," 12:30 p.m., C-103 Hesburgh Center 



__ --c_=----=-=--=-:--c.--=================-----, Monday, October l, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




Irish band Der_vish jams O'Laughlin 

By KATIE RAND 
News Writer 
Irish musician David James would rather listen to the band Dervish than play himself. 
At least that's what he said to students and South Bend residents Friday when the Sligo, Ireland­native band played at Moreau Center for the Arts as a part of the Shaheen Discovery Series. The 

Student Activities has openings for 
J:a}D.111:.tuui S1ad,utf 
tB.uildinq ~ 
the Student Activities Office.
315 LaFortune, or at www.nd.edu/~.sao
For tickets and information Call 234-4044 
For morE Information, please contact Student Activities, 631-7308. 
Toll Free 1-877-31 S-1234 
Student, senior, a11d group liiscoullls available for all performances. 
Morris Performing Arts Center 

ed of 10 songs ranging from upbeat jigs and reels to slower bal­

Broadway Theatre league 
lads, some with vocals and some 
without. Jordan introduced many songs with a brief history or story, often because the lyrics were in Gaelic and needed translation. 
According to one critic, "her sto­ries that accompany the songs and her interaction with the audience draws people into the music in a very special way." 
One song with Gaelic lyrics was called "Hooray for the Calves." 
According to Jordan, the author of the song thought the most beau­tiful sight and sound in the world is that of calves in the field before they come in to feed. 
"She obviously didn't get out 

Presents The New Musical••• 
much," Jordan said. 
During this half of the concert, the band also played a song titled "The Ploughman," originally a poem by Scottish poet Robbie Burns, and a love song from County Limerick about a couple whose parents disapproved of their marriage since the families were of different classes. 
"So they eloped off to Saint Mary's to be together, but he had to go to Notre Dame down the road, and eventually they were together happily," Jordan said. 
To add something from this side of the Atlantic, Dervish performed a Bob Dylan song called "Spanish Boots of Spanish Leather." 
To end the first half, they played a set ofjigs during which the audi­ence clapped along enthusiastical­ly, encouraged by group member Seamus O'Dowd, who plays guitar, harmonica and provides back-up vocals. 
After the break, O'Dowd per­formed a blues song called "The Empire State Express," demon­strating solid guitar-playing abili­ties. 
"Now get that blues out of your head," said Jordan, moving onto a set of reels called "Midsummer's Night." The set began and ended with all seven members perform­ing while the middle consisted of different combinations of the ensemble. And again O'Dowd got the crowd clapping along to the tune. 
On a more serious note, the group's next song was Paul Simon's "American Tune," a trib­ute to victims of the Sept. 11 ter­rorist attacks. 
"It's a sad song, but like all sad songs, it has hope at the end," Jordan said. 
Next they performed a song they learned from a traditional Swedish band, followed by another long story from Jordan before an Irish song called ''There Was a Maid in Her Father's Garden," and then two more jigs.The band asked the audience to participate in singing the chorus of one final song. 
After a first, very timid attempt, Jordan encouraged the crowd to sing boldly, saying, "Well that was OK, but it would help a bit if you opened your mouths." 
The next song, meant t;o be their last, was from their native County Sligo, but they played two more songs at-the request of a standing ovation. 
Linda Padilla, a Saint Mary's junior, said, "After living in Ireland for all of last year, the concert brought back a lot of wonderful memories. They were great." 
However, following a standing ovation, Dervish played an encore of two more songs, both accompa­nied by stories. The audience was apparently extremely pleased with the concert, evident in its non-st;op applause and laughter throughout the show. 
One Saint Mary's student, junior Marianne Jennings, grew up in a family with a strong Irish heritage, listening t;o Irish music regularly. 
"The concert was a great exam­ple oftraditional music played with a lot of energy," Jennings said. 
Dervish has released five albwns so far, many of which have won awards such as the Hot Press Traditional/Folk Albwn of the Year and the Best Overall Traditional /Folk Music Band of the Year. 
Their second album, "Playing With Fire," confirmed their status as a top traditional Irish band. 
The group will be on tour in the United States until mid-October before they head back to Ireland. 
Contact Katie Rand at rand8903@saintmarys.edu 
band, originally from northwest Ireland, plays traditional Irish music with a few modern tvvists. 
The original five members of Dervish came together in 1989 to record an album of traditional Irish music, and were inspired by the project to develop the informal gathering into a working band. Since then, the group has trans­formed and now consists of seven members, each contributing his own distinct sound and playing various instruments. 

'Tm very pleased with the turnout at the show, especially since this is our first time perform­ing here," said Shane Mitchell, one of the original members of the group who plays the accordion. 
Vocalist Cathy Jordan is regard­ed as one of the best traditional singers in the music industry. She introduced herself and the six men who accompany her and started the concert off with a bang. 
The first half of the show consist­

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Monday, October 1, 2001 
SMC class of 2005 votes in leaders 
Garavan-Oskielunas and One of the pair's main elected eight of the board's other slots through applica­
. Garavan­
Lubbers. The Helmen/Reeder goals is to unite the class of 13 members last week. tions and interviews.Oskielunas/ Lubber ticket 2005, they One of the newly-elected "We are looking for women to hold key secured 24 said. To board members, Meghan who want to get involved, 
percent of accom­Barnes, said she shares the have good ideas and leader­
positions 
the vote. plish this same goals as Garavan­ship skills," Lubbers said. while the objective, Oskielunas and Lubbers. Other duties for the pair Garavan­they said "We want to make our­start up this week with theBy NATALIE BAILEY 
Oskielunas they want selves accessible to the stu­beginning of Saint Mary's
News Writer 
a n d sugges­dent body. People need to Pride Week sponsored by the Lubber tions and know who we are so that Board of Governance. 
Following two rounds of took 54.4 input from they can easily make sugges­"The first thing that we will voting last week. the Saint percent. t h e i r tions," said Barnes. do as president and vice Mary's class of 2005 elected Lubbers class-Joining Barnes on the president will be to get as Maureen Garavan-Oskielunas said she is mates. board will be Emily Fisher, many first years involved in and Donna Lubbers as its excited "We are open to visitors. e­Meghan Hargrave, Emily Pride Week," said Lubbers. president and vice president. about the opportunity to rep­mail and phone calls," said Pernotto, Erin Cunningham, "The class of 2005 will be 
The first round of the elec­resent her peers. Lubbers. Erin Flynn, Heather Hoody the loudest and the proudesttion narrowed the five pairs "I think it is going to be a Garavan-Oskielunas and and Valerie Johnson. of all the Belles." of candidates down to run­lot of fun. I cannot wait to Lubbers will also get help Garavan-Oskielunas and ning mates Nina Helmen and meet new people and get from the First Year Class Lubbers are now in thP Contact Natalie Bailey at Shannon Reeder and involved," she said. Board. The class of 2005 process of filling the five baill407@saintmarys.edu 



Fu01ble 
continued from page 1 
ing to lose interest in the team." 
And its coach. 
Since Saturday's loss, stu­dent conversations in din­ing halls and dorm rooms have centered on Bob Davie's adequacy as Irish head coach as well as the possibility that he might resign or be fired. 
Bedsheets draped out res­idence hall windows expressed popular campus sentiments. A sign outside Keough Hall read "Fire Bob Davie." And signs outside Dillon and Keenan halls urged University officials to "Save Irish football." 
"I would say the team's performance has been because of the coaching," Kurowski said. "I don't think he's doing as good a job as he could be. Everyone is pretty con­vinced that there should be a change." 
"You really have to lean toward [the Irish losses] resulting from the coach­ing," Remenih agreed. 
Davie in December signed a five-year contract that secured his position through the 2005 season. 
Ile signed onto the program in 1994 as defensive coor­dinator and succeeded Lou 
Holtz  as  head  coach  in  
1996.  
The  defeat  Saturday  

brought the Irish to 30-22 under Davie's tenure at the helm of the team. 
The team's performance was not wholly a result of Davie's coaching, according to William Stehl. 
"Morale is an issue," said Stehl, a first-year graduate student. "It looks like it's getting tougher every time they go out on the field." 
A tough schedule includ­ing ranked opponent Nebraska hurt the Irish. according to senior Matt Phillips. 
"I thought we were going to come out ready to play Saturday," Phillips said. "That A&M crowd was just unbelievable to play against." 
'Tm not as big of a Bob Davie basher as most peo­ple here. We basically have the same team as last year when we won nine games. I don't see why we can't do more this year. Maybe the players just can't get moti­vated to play," Phillips said. 
The Irish. on a losing streak since their Jan. 1 fall to Oregon State in the Fiesta Bowl. would need 
strong showings against 

KEOUGH TAKES IT BACK TO THE OL'SCHOOL
Pittsburgh on Saturday and 
West Virginia on Oct. 13 to 
break the recent slump, 
Stehl said. 
"They just need one good 
game to snap them out of 
this," he said. "There's no 
way they can keep playing 
like this." 
Fans like Kurowski hope 
not. 
For the long-time enthusi­
ast of the program, being a 
Notre Dame students 
means less without a solid 
team to rally behind. 
"It's still good to go to the 
games and watch them on 
TV, and I'll continue to 
support them," Kurowski 
said. "But the losses kind of 
take a lot of the fun out of 
it and make it a different 
experience." 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley@nd.edu. 


ROSS 



lntere.\'!ed in learning n-wre abourpost-grml sen'ice H-'it!t HC"l? Tile foflov.•inr: n1,:-eting., are uvai!uble_for you to a.,A que.,thms, wlf..;, h'it!tji>rmcr and current 4ssociates~ mu! nu:cl ut!ter students intercsfl•d in \en·icc, 

Information Meetings 


Tonight at 4 p.rn. at the CSC Tonight at 6:30 p.m. at the (:SC Tomorrow at 4 p. m. CSC, La.cu,~ (UtJhe Chil<:__ P.!'<!J.;rt.U!J Tomornnv at 6:30 p.m. tYfCa111pus at rite Robfn..:on CLC 
Se,v1ng 1n .Ariwna, C,i!iforni,1, C,>lor,,do, fnd.i:w.,L \.b.s,a<hu~,;,r:;_ Oregon, P,:·nn;;v!\·ania, a.nd (:hi!,~ 
I 

rn.Lh<.:assoc l (i\nd.cdu 631.5521 http:/[\V\V\V.nd.cdu/-·hcassoc/ 

"YOUR FAMILY FUN CENTER" •e111c1 MICHi MONDAYS & THURSDAYS 9PM-12 MIDNIGHT UNLIMITED BOWLING $6.95 PER PERSON SHOES INCLUDED Beacon Bowl-421 O Lincolnway w. South Bend 234-4167  
N"C>'VV L:E.A..SIN'C: FC>R. TF.IE 2002 -:2003 SC:::FIC><>~ "E...A.~ I>C>1'2"'--TS F"~C>PE~'Y'IES I-I.A.S ~~D~~~;:_:<>~~~s S'I:'Ull>:&NT NJ!:X<-:EIOISe:>--<><>DS ~lLC>SE:. T<> c~-.::rs :SJICCU~~ ,s,..-:s~:1'1CS -W~lL~ ~T~ll> l01:C>J'1,,11ES ~TE~-N~ESTAFF<>NCA,J._,~ _,-.A.S~F..~ A,..N"ll> ll>--"V'.E.-.S CC:-:NT-'!1,..CT ~­<2 '1.9> 2?8-967~ <>JR. (:219) 234-2,4;s6 C:>:S-<21:!i>-) C.74-2:57'1  


ATION 
Monday, October 1, 2001 COMPILED FROM Tl-IE OBSERVER WlRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Pope decries terrorist attacks: 
Declaring Sept. 11 a dark day in history, Pope John Paul II on Sunday urged frequent prayer to help save the world from the "vicious scourge" of terrorism and said justice goes hand-and-hand with peace. He also encour­agt>d Catholics to be "on the front lines in the search for justice, in banishing violence and in being agents of peace. 
Indian lawmaker dies in crash: A private plane carrying a leading lawmaker from the opposition Congress party crashed in heavy rain Sunday in India, killing the politi­cian and al least six other people, officials said. The plane burst into flami>s after crash­ing in Manipur district, 190 miles southeast of New Delhi. Police found seven badly burned bodies and were searching for others. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
St. Paul workers nearing strike: A 
walkout by government workers appeared likely after contract talks broke off the state and its two biggest unions, officials said. "A strike is pretty much imminent," said Peter Benner, executive director of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees Council 6. A breakdown also was reported in negotiations late Saturday with the 10,500-member Minnesota Association of Professional Employees. 
Concert drums up support: Willie Nelson, who brought a flag-waving crowd to its feet Saturday with "This Land is Your Land" at Saturday's Farm Aid concert, said keeping family farms strong will keep America strong. "I think it's important to take care of the people who grow our food," said Nelson, co-founder of Farm Aid. The nonprof­it group's concert highlighted American farm­ers' role in helping the nation fight terrorism. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Motorist shot on interstate: A 
motorist was wounded by shots fired from another vehicle on Interstate 65 on the north side of indianapolis early Sunday, the Indiana State Police said. Investigators had no motive, and there were no suspects, state police said. 
Two die in Fort Wayne fire: A Fort Wayne woman and her teen-age son died early Saturday when a fire broke out in their single-story home. The cause of the 3:30 a.m. fire remains under investigation, but investi­gators do not consider the blaze suspicious. 
Market Watch September 28 
Dow 
8,847.56 +166.14 
Jones 

Composite 
Volume:
~sm~ 
NIA 
AMEX: 808.77 +l3.78 NASDAQ: 1,498:80 +38.aJ NYSE: 543.84 +ll.54 S&P 500: 1,040.94 +2233 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +8. 36 -tB. 94 12.18 NASDAQ 100 (QQQ) +1. 75 +0. 50 28. 98 INTEL CORP (INTC) -0. 54 -0.11 20.44 MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) +2.42 +1.21 51.17 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) +4. 55 +0.36 8.27 
Associated Press 
MASHHAD, !HAN 

Foreign aid workers in Iran stock­piled emergency rations for possible waves of Afghan refugees and sought ways to begin funneling supplies into Afghanistan before the winter, relief coordinators said Sunday. 
The food shipments are among the steps that impoverished northeastern Iran is taking to prepare for an esti­mated 400,000 people that could flee Afghanistan if the United States launches military strikes to retaliate for the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Americans are slowly 

returning to the skies and 
while security remains 
tight and time-consuming, 
the federal government is 
allowing some airports to 
resume one timesaving 
measure: curbside check­
in. 
Air travel still is well 

below levels prior to the 
Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. 
Federal Aviation 
Administration spokesman 
William Shumann said air­
lines are flying 80 to 85 
percent of their pre­
attacks schedules. 
But the Air Transport 

IRAN 
Association, a trade group for the major airlines, said preliminary estimates showed 665,714 passen­gers flew on domestic flights Thursday, com­pared to 518,765 the Thursday before. The flights were 46 percent full, up from 39 percent a week earlier. 
A year ago, airplanes carried around 1 million passengers a day and were around 70 percent full. 
There were no numbers available for weekend flights, but airport and air­line officials said it appeared more people were flying. 
Bill DeCota, aviation 
director for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which runs Kennedy, LaGuardia and Newark airports, visited all three facilities on Sunday and reported the terminals were busier. 
Michael Wascom, spokesman for the airline trade group, said he flew into Baltimore from Pittsburgh on Sunday and the plane was full. 
Monique Bond, a spokes­woman for the Chicago Department of Aviation, said there were longer lines at security check­points at both O'Hare and Midway airports. 
"That's a good sign," 
Bond said. "Increased lines mean there are more trav­elers regaining their confi­dence in air travel." 
President Bush and members of his Cabinet have been encouraging Americans to return to the skies, saying it will help boost the economy and return some normalcy to lives disrupted by the ter­rorist attacks. 
Airline passengers are seeing greater security at airports and being encour­aged to arrive two hours before departures. The National Guard has per­sonnel patrolling major airports and more strenu­ous checks of passengers. 

Food supplies rushed to refugees 
More than 2.3 million refugees have crossed into Iran from war-bat­tered Afghanistan since the early 1980s. 
"It's worrying to think that more could be coming, but we have to get prepared," said Toshiro ,Odashima, head of the U. N. refugee agency in Mashhad, about 150 miles l"rom the Afghan border. 
The first food shipment was stored in the Iranian border town of Dogharoun, he said. But it repre­sents just a small portion of the 17,000 tons of food and other sup­plies that could be required. 
"Blankets, water, stoves, tents ­they all present a major logistical operation," he said. "We arc just at the beginning." 
U.N. officials have identified a string of potential refugee camps along Iran's "long and porous" 450­mile border with Afghanistan, said Odashima. Although Iran has offi­
. cially closed the border, aid officials hope Iranian leaders will reverse their stance in the face of a possible humanitarian crisis. 
"Everything is open for discus­sion," said Filippo Grandi, the U.N. agency's chief for Afghanistan. 

page 6 The Observer . NEWS Monday, October 1, 200 l 
COLOMBIA 

Cultural leader found dead 
. Consuelo inspector-grrneral -and 
• • about 20 other people onArauJo, discovered Sept. 24, according to wit-
dead in guerrilla 
"f
Uni Orm 
Associated Press 

VALLEDUPAR 
Colombia's peace process was shaken Sunday by the killing of a beloved Colombian cultural figure, days after she was kidnapped bv rebels. 
· Consuelo Araujo's body was found by troops late Saturday in a ravine 9,800 feet high. in the Sierra Nevada mountains outside Valledupar, army Col. Jose Mahecha told The Associated Press. Her bodv was found dressed in a guei­rilla uniform with 1.wo gun­shots to the face. 
The killing of the 62-ycar­old Araujo, a former culture minister and friend of Nobel Prize-winning author Gabriel Garcia Marquez and many other influential Colombians, severely tests President Andres Pastrana's policy of peace talks with the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, known as the FARC. 
A presidential candidate in next May's elections, Noemi Sanin, called for an immedi­ate suspension of the peace process. 
The talks began almost three years ago in a safe haven Pastrana granted to the rebels in southern Colombia but have produced no substantial results. 
Pastrana had come under increasing pressure to pro­duce results in peace negotia­tions or impose controls on the rebel safe haven, which expires at midnight on Oct. 7. Pastrana has renewed the 16,200-square mile zone sev­eral times, but has not said whether he would do so again. 
Critics say rebels abuse the zone by using it to stash hostages and carry out mili­tary tr.aining. On Saturday, gun-toting FARC rebels pre­vented a caravan led by Horacio Serpa, the leading presidential candidate, from entering the huge safe haven to deliver a speech against the rebel abuses. 
Serpa on Sunday said he was shocked by Araujo's murder. calling it an "unprecedented outrage." 
The FARC kidnapped Araujo -who was a well­known folk music promoter and the wife of Colombia's 
Happyl3irthdayM~ttand e>arif i
You\J.eii:omg··~·:10ng••w~,,t~ys:·•: 
Lov~;}to~r,F~yorit~ Pyt~;·••··•·•••••··••·•• 
nesscs and the authorities. The rebel group has not claimed responsibility for the abduction or commented on Araujo's death. 
Thirteen of the hostages were freed a day after the mass kidnapping amid army pursuit. 
Mahecha said troops Saturday were combing the mouutains and came upon a group of Indian huts where fires were burning. As the soldiers began to secure a pArimeter around the area, rebels opened fire at them, Mahecha said. The rebels dragged Araujo and other hostages on foot into the 
woods. 
Araujo, exhausted from the trek, fell onto the ground and refused to go any further. At that point, the colonel said, rebels executed her. He was told how the killing occurred by some of the five hostages who were freed during the clash. 
On Sunday afternoon, two army helicopters with rescue personnel an_d a medical forensic team took off for the Sierra Nevada mountains in a last ditch effort to recover Araujo's body and the remaining freed hostages before nightfall. 
Dense fog had made it impossible for helicopters to land in the treacherous ter­rain, where the hostages and soldiers remained stranded. 
The FARC, which is consid­ered a terrorist organization by Washington, has some 16,000 combatants and has been waging a 37-year war against a succession of elect­ed governments. 
In Valledupar, Araujo's hometown near Colombia's Caribbean coast, hundreds of people gathered around her home on Sunday. 
Araujo, who was minister from July 2000 until January, gained fame for promoting Vallenato music, an accor­dion-based folk music popu­lar all over Colombia. More than 30 years ago, she found­ed an annual Vallenato festi­val that is one of Colombia's most important cultural events. 
Last year, she led a visit to the White House by a group of child Vallenato musicians received by President Clinton. 
Araujo's nephew, Alvaro Araujo. a con_gressman, denounced the FARC as "ter­rorists," saying "their mask is coming off." 
Colorado police arrest suspects 
"They didn't have a lot of ing a neighbor's dog in an
. Police charge 
friends. They didn't hang out alley near their grandmoth­Stowell brothers with other people and they er's house in Penrose and were always acting militant, dumping its body into the
in sheriff's slaying 
the kind of Arkansas
and police 

people who River,wounding wanted to be about 5
"Jt was like they were
in the-army," m i I e s
coming coming after us, 
said Scott north of
Associated Press 

Branam, who wanting to hurt us." Florence. went to While in
PENROSE 
Florence High FremontPolice found a cache of 
Mike Ingle 

School with County
weapons in the home of' twin 
them. Florence police chief Sheriff's
brothers, known to neighbors 
" h

as loners who liked to wear T e y 
always did

camouflage clothing, who are twisted stuff in
suspected of killing a sheriff's high school," such as drop­deputy and critically wound­
ping burning paper down
ing a police officer. 

vents at the school, he said.
Joel and Michael Stovall. 
"I think the time everybody in
24, were being held without school decided thcv weren't
bail Sunday and will be for­
normal was when one broth­
mally ad vised of murder 
er shot the other in the col­
charges on Monday, said Lt. 
larbone with a bow and
Melissa Hartman of the El 
arrow."
Paso Sheriff's office. 

Misty Viles was married to
They were captured late 
Michael for
Saturday 

two yirnrs.
after an all-day "J think the time "' T h c y thought the
pursuit everybody in school decided 
g o v c r n •
that led 

they weren't normal was 
ment was
into the scenic 

when one brother shot the tapping t h e i r
canyons other in the collarbone with 
phones,"
along the 

a bow and arrow. " she told
Arkansas 

the Gazette
River near 

of Colorado
the Royal Scott Branam 
Springs.
Gorge. 

high school acquaintance 
"They were
About 

re al1y in to
100 law 

guns, liked
officers 

to carry
had joined 
guns."

in the search, aided by The brothers didn't have
National Guard helicopters. 
adult criminal records,
At the brothers' home, 
according to the Coloradoinvestigators found several 
Bureau of Investigation. Both
guns, several knives and 
had worked as guard as the
what they believe to be ingre­Colorado State Penitentiary in
dients for a bomb, said nearby Canon City, whereFremont Sheriff Ivan 
their mother, Linda Stovall, isMiddlemiss. 
an officer. Viles said.

People who knew the broth­
Investigators said the
ers said they had trouble fit­
brothers had irnon arrested
ting in. 

afternoon for dlcgedly shoot-
INFORMATION NIGHT 
The Investment Office of the University of Notre Dame 
is offering 

Two investment analyst 
positions for graduating 
•
seniors 

Monday; October 1, 2001 Center for Continuing Education/ McKenna Hall Room 112-114 
7:30 PM Refreshtnents and discussion with Investment Office Personnel 
8:00 PM Special Presentation by 
Scott Malpass, Vice President for Finance & Chief Investment Officer 
The entire Investment Team will be available to answer questions about the opportunity. 
Deputy J a s o n Schwartz's patrol car, they shot him in the back of the head several times, police alleged. It wasn't clear how they could have used a gun while hand­cuffed or if whether the 
deputy's  own  gun  was  used.  
police said.  
The brothers  were  later  

seen in Florence, taking a pickup truck from a couple at gunpoint. They got into a gunfight with police and criti· cally wounded police Cpl. Toby Bethel. 
"The officers didn't even realize they were there. It was unprovoked," said Florence Police Chier Mike Ingle. 
The chief told the Pueblo Chieftain that while para­medics were removing Bethel from his car, the gunmen returned to taunt officers. "It was like they were coming after us, wanted to hurt us," he said. 
As the brothers drove west out of Florence, a shotgun taken from Schwartz's car was fired at pursuing sher­iff's cars, slightly wounding one officer, 
They abandoned the pickup 40 miles west of Florence late Friday night, and about 24 hours later they gave up in Salida, 55 miles west of Canon City, authorities said. 


Monday, October l, 2001 The Observer . NEWS page 7 
MACEDONIA 
Citizens 
.

Albanian~rebels scatter gunfire Sunday 
call for 

are gradually implementing a rights to ethnic Albanians who fighting for equal footing in the 
Associated Press 
SKOPJE 

Scattered gunfire rattled early Sunday through a volatile part of Macedonia the government has said it intends to eventually retake from ethnic Albanian rebels who seized control during a six-month insurgency, police and witnesses said. 
A total of about 50 rounds were fired into the air in what a police official said appeared to be a rebel warning to govern­ment authorities to back off from rebel strongholds in sub­urbs and villages near Tetovo, Macedonia's second largest city. The official spoke on condition of anonymity. 
The gunfire came at a delicate time for the !Balkan country, where majority Macedonians and minority ethnic Albanians Western-brokered peace plan signed last month. 
Last week, NATO troops col­lected more than 3,300 weapons handed in by rebels as part of the peace deal, mostly in the area where the shots were fired Sunday. The top rebel leader later announced that his guerril­las, known as the National Liberation Army, had disbanded. 
On Saturday, Macedonia's government promised to use restraint in restoring control over areas that were in rebel hands during the fighting, which broke out in February and killed dozens 'of' people. 
The Macedonian-dominated government said it would not move into those areas until other provisions of the peace accord are fulfilled -including its own obligation to implement legal reforms granting broader make up nearly one-third of the population. 
But the authorities also say there is an urgent need to restore law and order in the contested areas and enable thousands of refugees displaced by the fighting to return home. The mostly Macedonian refugees have held a series of protests demanding that the government help them return home. 
NATO officials, Western diplo­mats and international monitors have warned that any hasty action by Macedonian police or the army could undermine peace efforts, which have halted armed clashes for weeks. 
Macedonians contend that the rebels' ultimate goal was to claim much of northwestern Macedonia as their own. The rebels said they were simply country's power structures. 

Its weapons-collecting mission over, NATO on Sunday contin­ued pulling out the 4,500 troops in Macedonia for the operation while setting up a new, German­led follow-up mission to provide security to unarmed peace mon­itors sent mostly from western Europe. 
More than 150 civilian moni­tors, protected by up to 1,000 NATO troops, are to fan out across Macedonia to check on progress in fulfilling the peace plan signed Aug. 13. 
Another unresolved issue in the peace process is amnesty for the rebels. Ethnic Albanian lead­ers and Western officials have pressed the Macedonian govern­ment to ensure that insurgents who laid down their arms will not face prosecution unless they are suspected of war crimes. 

INFORMATION MEETING: 
Wednesday, October 3, 2001 Rooin 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 7:00 p.m. 
ALL ENGINEERING STUDENTS WELCOME! 

The Easy Banking Club 
for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Faculty and Staff 
Great Benefits 

Sign up for direct deposit payroll at 1st Source Bank and receive the following great benefits: 
• 
Free checking account' 


• 
Interest on balances over $750 

• 
Unlimited check writing 


• 
Free Resource® or Resource Plus® card 

• 
1/2 % interest discount on consumer loans 

• 
$100 mortgage closing cost discount 

• 
Free Online Banking account information access 

• 
And much more... 



Ask Human Resources or a 1st Source Bank representative for details on how easy it is to join. 
Now More Convenient Than Ever! 
In addition to our banking center and ATM in Haggar College Center, and our ATM in the Hesburgh Library, we recently added a third ATM in LeMans Hall at Saint Mary's Plus, we've extended our hours at the Saint Mary's Banking Center to serve you even better. 
Saint Mary's Banking Center• 235-2019 
M-Th • 10.00 to 4:00 F • 10:00 to 4:30
lstsource.com 

·subject to new account credit restrictions 
peace 
• Protestors gather in Washington for anti-war demontration 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Banging drums, singing songs and waving giant puppets, several thousand anti-war demonstrators marched Sunday to call for peace following the terrorist attacks. 
"Now is when you should question the presi­dent," said Scott Morschhauser, 37, who came from Bettendorf, Iowa with a large American flag, its field of stars replaced with a peace symbol. "At times of emergency the deci­sions made have reper­cussions 10 or 20 years from now." 
The peace rally and march had a festive atmosphere, with families spreading out picnic blan­kets in a park and per­formers leading the crowd in songs with lyrics such as "No more killing, no more war, no more violence anymore." 
The police presence was muted, unlike Saturday when scores of officers turned out in riot gear for two separate marches of several thousand demon­strators. Those events were mostly peaceful, but some skirmishes led to several arrests. 
The city's top two police officials walked ahead of the march Sunday, including Assistant Police Chief Terrance Gainer, who had been injured at a protest the previous day when someone hit him on the head and he was doused with pepper spray. He said he may have accidentally been sprayed by his own offi­cers. 
A lone counterdemon­strator drew angry words from protesters as he walked in front of ·the march with a sign com­paring the anti-war demonstrators with Osama bin Laden, the government's prime sus­pect in the Sept. 11 ter­rorist attacks. 
During the march through residential neigh­borhoods, the protesters chanted "peace now" and some held American flags alongside signs denounc­ing war. 
"We're here to honor and mourn the victims of' the violent attacks," said Maria Ramos, coordinator of the Washington Peace Center, which helped organize the march. "Calling a criminal act 'li1 act of war gives it too much dignity." 


Monday, October 1, 200 I 

page 8 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
UK tested children's 
• bones after .fallout 
their organs during post-mortem examinations between 1988 and 1995 -without parental con­sent. 
A spokeswoman for Scottish Parenls for a Public Inquiry into Organ Retention said Sunday that stronger laws were needed to ensure that parents had the power to decide what happened to their childrens' remains. 
Dr. Dick \'an Vclzen left Britain in 1995 to work at a hospital in Halifax, Canada. but was fired in 1998, and later hired bv a Dutch hospital. He lost that job in February, after Canadian police issued a warrant for his arrest for storing human organs in Canada. 
In June, he pleaded guilty in a Nova Scotia provincial court to charges he had Hlegally retained organs removed during autopsies of two children. He was sen­tenced to a year probation for 1 committing· an indignity to human remains. Van Veltzen's work was not connected to Britain's nuclear research. 
The British government said in a January report that the actions of Van Velzen were "unethical and illegal" and that "the pain caused to the parents by this dreadful sequence of events is unforgivable." The doctor's license to practice medicine there has been suspended. 
A related report said more than 100,000 hearts, brains. 

Associated Press 

LONDON 
Thousands of bones were removed from dead British chil­dren without their parents' con­sent during Cold War-era nuclear tests. the nation's Atomic Energy Authority said Sunday. 
The femurs of about 4,000 young children we're removed from 1954 to 1970, agency spokeswoman Beth Taylor said. Tho bones were used in tests to measure the effects atmospheric explosions of hydrogen bombs were having on humans and the environment. 
"It is true that parental or rela­tives' approval wasn't sought," she said. "\Ve assume that par­ents weren't asked because it wasn't the norm at the time." 
Similar revelations were made in Australia in June. The Australian Radiation Protection and Nuclear Safety Agency said bones from dead Australian chil­dren were once shipped to the United States and Britain for testing. 
Tavlor stressed that the British research -conducted in London and Glasgow, Scotland -con-. tributed to a decision to halt atmospheric nuclear explosions in 1963. 
"The program was done for the best of reasons," she said. "It was the period when we were doing atmospheric tests of hydro­gen bombs, and there was quite a bit of concern about the dan­gers of nuclear fallout." 
The issue of parents' control over their children's bodies fol­lowing.death made headlines earlier this year in Britain when it was revealed that a Dutch pathologist working at a Liverpool, England, children's hospital had stripped children of 
There is no need to be atone.... 



11'..,YOU 
1 

-are feeling same sex attraction 1 have questions about your sexual orientation 
1 

don't know who to talk to -just want someone to listen -desire a warm accepting confidential atmosphere for gay, lesbian, bisexual issues 
Ci ather Listen Tl ecome 

fir~ 
For information or just to talk, Contact: Fr. J. Steele, CSC 1-8144 Jsteele I @nd.edu 
lungs and other organs were ; held by hospitals and medical 
1 

schools across the country, many : without the knowledge of next-1 of-kin. 
Visit The Observer Online. 
The nuclear-related tests in Britain and Australia concentrat­ed on strontium 90. a radioactive 
http://observer.nd.edu
isotope that mimics the proper­ties of calcium. The similarity allows bones and plants to absorb the isotope. '-----------------------------------------
Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown 
Take your next big step 
Deutsche Bank is dedicated to being the best financial services provider in the world. We endeavor to use our breadth of experience, capabilities and financial strength to create value for our shareholders. customers. employees and society as a whole. 
This year, our profits have doubled to €4.95 billion. thereby 
achieving the best results in our history to date_. Clearly this is a 
very exciting time for the firm and now more than ever we are 
seeking to recruit the best and most talented from top 
universities around the world. 

Please join us to learn about career opportunities in Corporate Finance and Debt Capital Markets. 
Analyst Panel Discussion 
Wednesday, October 10. 2001 
7:00pm 

Center for Continuing Education, Room 210 
More information about our exciting opportunities can be found on our web site at www.db.com/careers 
Deutsche Bank 1s an Equal Opportunity. Affrrmat1ve Action employer ( M/F/DN ). 
Teamwork. Leading to results."' 

Deutsche Bank 
121 

Monday, October 1, 2001 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
PAKISTAN 
Taliban admits to knowing bin Laden's location 
~sociated Press 
ISLAMABAD 

Under threat of U.S. military strikes, Afghanistan's hard­line Taliban rulers said explic­itly for the first time Sunday that Osama bin Laden is still in the country and thev kno\\' where his hide-out is. 
But the president 


o f bin Laden Pakistan, which has been appealing to 1.he Taliban to resolve the cri­sis with the United States, said hopes were "very dim" that the Taliban would surrender bin Laden. Taliban supreme leader Mullah Mohammed Omar took a hard stance in a radio address Sunday, telling Afghans not to fear U.S. strikes. because "Americans don't have the courage to come here." Meanwhile, fierce fighting was reported in the jagged mountains of northern Afghanistan. Rebel guerrillas said they had seized a district from Taliban troops, while the Taliban said at least a dozen opposition soldiers were killed and several hurt in a blast at a base north of Kabul. In the Afghan capital, the trial of eight foreign aid work~ 
ers charged with preaching Christianity resumed for the first time since the Sept. 11 place which cannot be located terror attacks in the United by anyone." States. The top judge in the Zaeef said the Taliban, who trial, Noor Mohammed Saqib, have rejected a series of told the workers -who appeals to hand over bin include two Americans -the Laden and avert a military throat of U.S. military action confrontation, were willing to would not affect their case. talk. "We are thinking of nego-
Since the attacks on the tiation," he said. adding that if World Trade Center and the direct evidence against bin Pentagon, the Taliban have Laden were produced, "it given varying accounts of their might change things." dealings with bin Laden, the That met with a crisp rebuff United States' top suspect in from Washington. "The presi­the attacks. U.S. officials say dent has said we're not negoti­bin Laden, who has been shel­ating," White House chief of tered in Afghanistan since staff Andrew Card said on Fox 1996, presides over a terrorist News Sunday. Card said the network known as al-Qaida, or Taliban had worked closely "the base." with bin Laden and "clearly it 
Initially, the Afghan rulers is not right." said they didn't know where to "They cannot be a party to find bin Laden. these ter-Then, last rorist acts week, they said and if they
"Hes in Afghanistan. He 
they had been are going
is under our control. He's
able to deliver to continue a message to in a place which cannot to be a him, a week­party to the
be located. " 

old request terrorist from the coun­acts, they try's top clerics Abdul Salam Zaeef should not that he leave envoy be in Afghanistan p o we r , " voluntarily. Card said. 
On Sunday, the Afghan Omar, the Taliban leader, ambassador in neighboring denied any role in the terrorist Pakistan said bin Laden was attacks and blamed them on hidden away for his own pro­unspecified U.S. policies in an tection at a site inside interview with Taliban-run Afghanistan known only to top Kabul Radio. He repeatedly Taliban security officials. warned the United States to 
"He's in Afghanistan. He is "think and think again" about under our control," the envoy, Rttarking Afghanistan. Abdul Salam Zaeef, told ajour­Pakistan's president, Gen. nalists in Islamabad. "He's in a Pervez Musharraf, told CNN that hopes that the Taliban will hand over bin Laden and accede. to other U.S. demands are "verv dim." Pakistani con­tacts ha;e not succ;eeded "in moderating their views on the surrender of Osama bin Laden," he told CNN. 
Pakistan has lent its backing to the United States in the con­frontation over bin Laden, but outbursts of anti-American sentiment have the govern­ment worried. At a rally near the volatile border city of Peshawar on Monday, a promi­nent Pakistani cleric told hun­dreds of followers to kill any American they can find if Afghanistan comes under 
attack. 
The threat of military con­frontation has hung over the case of the eight foreign aid workers -two Americans, two Australians, and four Germans. Relatives of the workers followed the resump­tion of the trial Sunday from Pakistan. 
Deborah 0ddy, the mother of one of the Americans. said her daughter, Heather Mercer, had written a letter Sept. 25 asking that any U.S. retaliation wait until the workers had been freed. "All eight of us want to live," she wrote. 
The Taliban also sent a. spe­cial team to the northeastern city of Jalalabad to investigate a British journalist arrested Friday after sneaking into Afghanistan. The Afghan Islamic Press said the team wanted to determine if Yvonne Ridley. 43, a reporter for the Sunday Express of London, was a spy. 
The Taliban, meanwhile, were cracking down on any of their own citizens thought to sympathize with the enemy. 
Taliban authorities, in a statement distributed by the Afghan Islamic Press, said six men were arrested for distrib­uting pamphlets supporting the United States and Afghanistan's exiled king -a crime that could be punishable by death. Top clerics from throe provinces also issued an edict Sunday saying any Afghan believed to sympathize with the United States or the former king should be heavily fined and have their house burned down. 
The United Nations this weekend began delivering its first shipments of food and other emergency humanitarian supplies since the Sept. 11 attacks. A convoy of trucks carrying more than 200 tons of wheat left Pakistan for Kabul on Sunday. Other supplies headed Saturday for opposi­tion-controlled territory. 
In the latest fighting in Afghanistan's north, the rebel alliance claimed it had cap­tured the Taliban-controlled Qadis district in the northeasti Alliance spokesman Mohammed Habil. reached by telephone, claimed 30 Taliban soldiers and their commander were captured, and another 120 Taliban troops had defect­ed to the rebels. 
Thinking about GRADUATE SCHOOL? GRADUATE SCHOOL FORUM October 3 "Successfully Applying to Graduate School" Jan .Poorman/ Associate Professional Specialis~ Graduate School 7:00-8:30pm LaFortune Ballroom October 4 "Why Graduate School and What Can I Expect?" Panel ofFaculty & Current Graduate Students 7:00--8:30pm LaFortune Ballroom FREE Kaplan test preparation program will be raffled!!! Sponsored by The Career Center and Graduate Admissions  


THE 
OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT 
page 10 Monday, October 1, 2001 


THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, No,re Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

1\,1.ANAGING EDlT0R  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Nori-en Gillespie  Boh \'ifoods  
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR  OPl'R'.TIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Sm1th  Par Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarler VtEWi'OINT EDITOR: Liuren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadrer SCENE EDITOR: C. Spmcer Beggs SAINT MARYS EDITOR: Myra McGrilF PHOTO EDITOR, Peter E.ichardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD D.r.SIGN MAfiAG£R: Alex Menze SYSTEMS .ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEBADMINJSI"RAT0R: Ad..m Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan GRAJ'HICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO ......... 631-7411 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF.. ......................................631-4542 MANAGING EmTORIAssT. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS....................................................... ,.631-5323 
observer .obsnews. \@nd.edu VIEWPOINT................................................ 631-5303 observer.viewpoinc. l@nd.edu SPORTS.............,.....,....................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE....................................... , .......... ,, .....631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer .smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0 .......................... ,.............................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site ar http://ob,erver.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, spores, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to--rhe 

movies/music for 
minute forecasrs 

weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 

online features for spe­
and rates of print ads 

cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 

about The Observer 
articles published afrer 

to meer the edirors and 
August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration of eirher institution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advertisemenr.s based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and colwnns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lercers is encouraged. Letters ro rhe Ediror must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questi01is regardir,g Ob,tnJer policie. should be direct­ed to Editor in Chie/Mike Conn"ily. 

r: 

f;~~~ Aid O{frce
r."a."4../N A'r~ "ff k... 
C,f"<'nls; $151 OoO
(]N,,~ ~ 'l. 0,000 
loo. V\ s: t J.I, ooo
Loo. "'s ~ j J.., 6 oo 
Work· Siuoy~i~ ~00
Wor\(.•S1ll~Y, fl,IOti 
To+<>-\ Aid ;f~()OO 
Remember getting your first financial aid package during your senior year of high school? Yeah, you were probably a bit disappointed but the grant wasn't that bad and the loans didn't look too terrifying. 
Hey.you 
Amy Schill 

thought, maybe financing a Notre Dame education won't be that bad Dazed and after all. 
Amused 

Now let's just take a moment to pause and let our readers from the financial aid office to have a nice hardy laugh at our expense. 
Well, that was nice. You see kids, the financial aid people lure you in by offering you high grants and low loans for your freshman year, only to increase the "self-help component" each year of undergrad and then hit­ting you up for money after you gradu­ate until you die broke in a house filled with bookstore catalogs and plaid pants. Besides loans, the self-help com­ponent includes work-study and that, my friends, means that you need to get a job and cut your hair. hippie. 
Oh the work-study job. There are a wide variety of campus jobs available to the needy student ranging from the ridiculously easy (can someone say Resident Computer Consultant?). To the ridiculously undesired (Monday break­fast dishline). In my three years here at Notre Dame, I have worked three dif­ferent jobs. I've been the hidden labor that kept your silverware sorted, your student center open, your Ballroom monitored. My jobs have ranged from interestingly disgusting to disgustingly boring. I now give you a brief and hopefully amusing account of how I've fulfilled my need to get paid, because, as we all know, I guts to get paid. 
First, the dining hall. Freshman Orientation remains a blur to me. All I know is that somewhere in between wheelbarrow races and luaus I some­how signed up to work at North Dining Hall and was gainfully employed before my first college class. I had actually never had a job before so with a base­ball cap on my head and an old T-shirt on my back, I entered wide-eyed into the workforce. 
Little did I know that the workforce involved so much half-digested food. 
After two semesters of cleaning your dirty dishes (you food-wasting poopoo stick), I decided that my proletariat self would like a more bourgeoisie-ish job. So I applied at Student Activities as a ballroom monitor. 
That's right, I monitored the ball­room. If you went to the ballroom last year, I watched you and wrote down your actions. I was there at your formal when you hooked up with that shady guy, you know the one, with the sus­penders ... yeah, it's all in the report. Besides watching you with Foucault­like surveillance, my ballroom monitor duties included opening doors and turning on lights. I was essential to all ballroom events. Without my mad ball­room skills, clubs and organizations would have to turn on lights them­selves. 
Again, a year was about all I could take of this job and I decided to try to move up the Student Activities career ladder. You see, in the Student Activities Office, your self-worth is measured by the number of keys on your key ring. I, of course, wanted the most coveted ring, the heaviest ring, the building manager's key ring. 
Apparently, I was rather replaceable as a ballroom monitor, as I was in fact entrusted with they keys to the king­dom ... er, student center. I am now a building manager. And I have 50,000 
~----­
1,7,o~llo 

keys. I know what four of these keys do. 
Besides the keys, I was attracted to the building manager position because I wanted increased responsibility. When I was a ballroom monitor and needed help with a difficult situation or with a light switch that just wouldn't cooperate, I would call my friendly building manager on my radio for assistance (This was when one of my friends had not taken my radio and yelled "Skid Row rawks!" into it repeat­edly.) 
Moving on. So yeah, I wanted to be the person called upon to help other employees. I wanted to look out for oth­ers and make Lafortune a better place. I picked up my keys, ready for a new and exciting position with new and exciting duties. 
I open doors. I sit in my little office and wait for people to ask me to open doors for them. Some say a Notre Dame education opens doors for you. No, no, that's me. 
Okay, so my job is slightly more com­plicated. I keep track of money, oversee employees and handle crisis situations, including !ires, bomb threats and pos­sums. And when I look back on all my campus jobs I'll always remember my days as a building manager and I hope you'll remember the work we do for you, the Lafortune patrons. 
So the next time you see the doors of the stairwells open in Lafun, remember the hard-working student who did that for you. And if it's locked instead, it's probably Bob Davie's fault. 
Amy Schill is a junior English major. I !er column appears every other Monday. She can be contacted at schill­thethrill@yahoo.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Scene  
Myra McGriff  C. Spencer Beggs  
Erin LaRuff a  Graphics  
Kevin Suhanic  Katie McKenna  
Sports  Production  
Katie McVoy  Chris Federico  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Kurt Bogaard  Peter Richardson  

POLL QUESTION 
. Are the new dean's list requirements fair? 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Non-violence is a flop. The only bigger flop is violence." 
Joan Baez vocalist 


I
I 
I 
I 
Monday, October 1, 200 I 

[ page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
===================================================================================================== 
Soccer 
continued from page 24 
The Irish regrouped at half­time and took control of the game early in the second half. Thanks to the play of fresh­man forward Mary Bolton, the Irish were finally able to exert some pressure on the Mountaineers defense. Fifty­four minutes into the game Sarkeisou intercepted a West Virginia pass. After eluding utes. both teams would battle hard to score. but neither team was able to get any clean looks at the goal and regula­tion time ended tied. 
Despite playing five games in the last 10 days, the Irish remained focused in overtime. Pruzinsky made a slide tackle to stop a potential game-win­ning run by Katie Barnes early in the overtime. The Irish would take advantage of their only offensive chance in over­time with just over two min­utes remain­ing in the 
"This was a huge win for first over­
a West 
time period.

Virginia us today over West 
Guertin's

defender, 
Vi,rginia. West Virginia is free kick on
Sarkesian's 
a really good team. " a foul out­
connected 
side of the

with BC'lton 
penalty box

who faked 
Randy Waldrum 
went directly

0 U t 
head coach to Bolton
Mountaineer 
who headed

goalie 
the ball to a

Melissa Haire 
wide-open Sarkcsian at the
to give the Irish a 1-0 lead. 
other end of the goalie box.
After Notre Dame scored, the 
Sarkesian received Bolton's
Irish focused on defense but 
header and finished with a 
were unable to keep Barnes 
header of her own that went
quiet for the entire ninety 
past new West Virginia goalie
minutes. With just under nine­
Laura Finley to give the Irish a
teen minutes left in the game. 
2-1 victory.
Barnes' free kick outside of 
"It was another set play that
the penalty box set up a head­
confused the defense," said 
er for midfielder Chrissie 
Sarkesian. ''Mary Bolton did
Abbott whose shot skipped 
an excellent job of heading the
past the reach of Irish goalie 
ball right to me. All I had to do
Liz Wagner to knot the score 
was just head it in the net."
at 1-1. For the next 19 min-
Volleyball 
continued from page 24 
"[Our blocking] helped to con­trol their two main hitters." 
Shaking some pesky errors from game one, the Irish took the court with a mental focus that had been growing in strength over the course of the match. Another kill from Loomis tied the two teams at 
13. Notre Dame never trailed again. Loomis, Goralski and 
Kreher collaborated to knock down kills late in the game. Goralski sealed the match with one last kill, her thirteenth of the afternoon. Kreher had an impressive 18 kills, Loomis had 11 and Bomhack rounded off the leader board with 10 kills. 
In its matchup against Virginia Tech on Friday, Notre Dame was relentless, combin­ing blocks and kills to come away with the victory. Although the Irish trailed at the beginning of game one, the team's play at the net was too 
Notre Dame coach Handy Waldrum was disappointed that the Irish were forced into overtime again, but he was • extremely proud of the way the team has played in the last 10 days. 
''To be honest, I thought we were past some of these men­tal lapses that we've been hav­ing in the second half, but I think today it had more to do with fatigue." Waldrum said. "This was a huge win for us today over West Virginia. West Virginia is a really good team. We now have another chance to repeat as regular season champions of the Big East." 
Notes: 

. 
Notre Dame defeated Pittsburgh 4-0 on Friday Night. Freshman Candace Chapman scored the first two goals of her career. Amanda Guertin and· Melissa Tancredi also scored for the Irish. This was the Irish's first road game of the season. 

. 
With the victory on Sunday, the Irish moved into sole pos­session of the Western Division of the Big East Conference. 

. 
The Irish will next be in action at Rutgers on Friday night Oct. 5. 


Contact Joe Licandro at 
J oseph.R.Licandro@nd.edu. 


much for Virginia Tech. The onslaught of kills from Goralski, who had 13 overall, and Kristy Kreher, with 14 overall, snuffed out any chance of a comeback for the Hokies. 
In game two, after the momentum shifted from Notre Dame, to Virginia Tech and back to Notre Dame again, the Irish were able to stabilize the Hokies to move ahead 29-16. Kim Fletcher closed the game with a kill to make the final score 30-16. 
The teams were more evenly matched in game three, taking turns holding the lead until Janie Alderete stepped up to serve an ace. The Irish capital­ized on Alderete's next floater­serve and brought the game to 18-12. Virginia Tech was unable to take command of the lead again. Fletcher ended the game at 30-28 with a kill and finished off Virginia Tech with the match. 
Notable statistics for the night included Alderete's four aces, which matched her career high. "Her mental toughness was consistent throughout each game," senior co-captain Marcie Bomhack said. "Her serve scored points in key situ­ations to help us win victories." Also helping to prevent the Hokie attack, Senior Malinda Goralski led the team with seven blocks. 
At 7-3 overall and 3-0 in the Big East Conference, the Irish will face the University of Toledo on Oct. 2, 2001. 
Contact Susan Carpenter at carpenter.16@nd.edu. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
LOST AND FOUND 
LOST bookbag in South Dining Hall Tuesday. It's blue and white Jansport with Leprechaun patch. Please return to Laura Lacayo 4­4273 
FOUND: Small gold pendant with Virgin Mary. Found in parking lot behind Lyons. Kstekbe@nd.edu 
FOR RENT 
5 rooms tor rent on football week­ends. Many happy repeat cus­tomers 2 miles N. of campus. 
277-8340 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM­PUS mmmrentals.com 
email: mmrnrentals@aol.com 
.THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 rooms with private baths, $80-$115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road Exit #107. 1-800-418· 9487 HOUSE FOR RENT: 1)9-br $2400/month. 2) 5-br $1500/month. 3) 4-br $1000/month. 
Call Bill at 532-1896. 
Turtle Creek Apt. Opening 
1 Br $655 276-4809 
For rent: remodeled 4-bdrm house. 3 blks. from ND. Garage avail. 
233-2104 
ROOM FOR RENT ND GAMES $250 WEEKEND CONT. BRKFST 
CALL 272-0877 
8&8 
2-3 ROOMS HOME GAMES 2 Ml NO OF CAMPUS 
247-1124 
For Rent vanous sizes apts. avail. 
1-1i2 miles from ND 233-2098 
5 Rooms for rent on Football week­ends. Many happy repeat cus­tamers. 2 miles north of campus 277-8340 
WANTED 
STUDENT WORK $14.50 Base-appt. 
Vector Mk!. is filling PT cust. svc./sales positions (5-20hrs) Flex. around classes. Scholarships. Cond. apply www.workforstudents.com/np call M-W 12-5pm 282-2357 
FOR SALE 
Northsore Condo, 1428 Marigold way near ND, 1 bdr, 1 bath, LR, DR & kitchen with appliances. 1 car garage. $69,000. Call Doris at 254-1772 
'88 GMC SLE pickup truck. Looks good, runs great. Call Mark at 273· 0449. 
'98 Men's Schwin Frontier 19" Mountain Bike. Like New. Call 277­8208 after 3:30 
TICKETS 
ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE A.M. -232-2378 P.M. • 288-2726 

OBSERVER DRIVER NEEDS TWO GA'S TO ANY GAME CALL JACK 674-6593 
Have: 4 WVU and 4 Navy tix. Need: ND-BC tix and/or cash Call Bob at 219-315-8964 
BUY-SELL ND FOOTBALL TICKETS 
277-6619 

ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED 
AM. -232-2378 P.M. -288-2726 
-

ND tickets for sale. Lowest prices. 232-0964. 
WANTED -ND TICKETS 289-9280 
Wanted: ND vs BC tickets. Please call 4-1157 
Buying some/ Selling a few extra 
N.D. Football Tickets. 
219·289-8048. 

Need 2 tix, student or GA to USC game. Call Noreen at 284-4417. 
use. Loyal alum who missed the lottery needs 6 USC bx. Top Dollarl Ask tor Gary at toll free (888) 893­6753 or Gehura@pegrehab.com 
WANTED U2 TICKETS 232-0964 

Need 2 BC tickets to buy/trade for 2 
W. Virginia. Call 247-9811 
PERSONAL 

SPRING BREAK Largest selection of Spring Break Destinations, including Cruises! Rep Positions, Free Drinks and Free trips available. www. EpicuRRean com 1 -800-231-4-FUN 
WANTED SPRING BREAKERS! Sun Coast vacations wants to send you on Spring Break to Cancun, the Bahamas, Jamaica or Mazatlan FOR FREEi To find out how, call 1­888-777·4642 or email: sales@sun­coastvacations.com 
Spring Break Insanity! WWW.INTER-CAMPUS.COM or call 1-800-327-6013 Guaranteed lowest pricesl All desti­nations! Fifteen years experience! Wanted: Representatives and orga­nizatoins, earn top $$$, build your resume 
SPRING BREAK PARTYI Indulge in FREE Travel, Drinks, Food and Parties with the Best DJs and celebrities in Cancun, Jamaica, Mazatlan and the Bahamas. Go to StudentCity.com, call 1-800-293­1443 or email sales@studentcity.com to find out more. 
Congrats, Meg, and thanks for a great weekend, family! 
yeah, I missed you. 
Jnell ... so....am I an alum yet? 
Adrienne ­You picked the wrong day to stop sniffing rubber cement. 
I just want to tell you you have kooooties and I am in love with Dexter. 
He's bad horse for life. 
Hey baby-Good luck with the tests this week and make sure you leave some time open to talk to those of us who are stuck at the Observer all the time! 
Kerry Smith is the coolest person ever! If you have class with her today make sure you tell her that she rocks! 
It's a McVoy family tailgate this weekend' All of you who know what that means better be at the soccer fields this Saturday! 
Ken-Doll rocks!' 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Monday, October I, 2001 
page 13 

aking parietals) 
ays and 2 a. m. on weekends 
laughs and a quality night of entertainment. 
lf this docs not appeal to you then try taking a walk around the campus. Stick to the well-lit areas and always go with a friend-safety comes first! If you have a large group of friends try thinking back to being a kid and bring out all your favorite play­ground games of tag and hide and go seek. You can probably get a few more to join by just inviting the passer by. 
On-campus there are many hidden and tucked back areas you might have never found so explore and keep looking until you find something you have never seen before. Or just streamline to your favorite area on campus and enjoy it late at night. Many people find Saint Mary's Lake to be their favorite area as you can see many cou­ples walking or stopping to enjoy the view after parietals. Sometimes these walks last quite a long time for those very passionate about nature and their friend they are walking with. 
Saint Mary's has the island, which is similar to Reeker's. Covered in trees and a few benches. the island serves as another great place to visit late at night to explore your passion for nature. In the spring, flow­ers cover much of the area mak­ing it a romantic getaway for the night owls. 
If you need something more active, try a late-night run or roller blade around the campus. Or combine the two and blade it to Denny's. The cool air and peaceful surroundings can be a refreshing change from the hot sun in the day. Not to mention it is a great time for a novice to learn to roller blade. There are not nearly as many people around to laugh at you when you fall down! 
If you are strolling around the campus Thursday night before a home football game, make sure you stop by the Dome close to midnight. The Notre Dame Glee Club gathers together to keep warm in the fall night air and sing many of their more popular songs. This is truly something not to miss. Just walk on up and join them in a circle and enjoy their voices. 
As a last resort you could always study? (Yeah, right.) 
In the end, if you approach your late-night activities in the same way as daytime fun, you will probably come up with some great ideas. Just because the world has operating hours does not mean that you do too. So, grab a flashlight and let your imagination run away with you. 
Contact Merideth Pierce at pier3898@saintmarys.edu. 

, there are derage. 

ie and video game reviewers. 
:all 1-4540. 
AP ENTERTAINMENT BRIEFS 
Strong showing at post-WfC movies 
A trio of strong new releases helped lure audiences back to theaters after the worst weekend of the year. 
''Don't Say a Word," "Zoolander" and "Hearts in Atlantis" took in a combined estimated total of more than $43 million, driving a strong fall weekend for the ind us try. 
"I hope this portends well for the country, never mind just the movie business," said Bruce Snyder, president of domestic distribution for 20th Century Fox, which released "Don't Say a Word," a psycholog­ical thriller starring Michael Douglas that led the pack with an $18 million take. 
SNL starts show with WTC tribute 
Facing a nation rocked by recent tragedy, "Saturday Night Live" blinked. 
Typically irreverent. often defiantly rude in its com­edy, the long-running NBC sketch series opened with a tribute to the victims and heroes of the Sept. 11 attacks. 
Then it ducked the tragedy and anything else topi­cal for most of its season premiere Saturday. 
In a "cold opening," New York Mayor Rudolph Giuliani stood on the show's familiar set with some two dozen police, fire and rescue personnel. 
"On our city's darkest day. our heroes met the worst of humanity with the best of humanity," said Giuliani. "Our hearts are broken, but they are beat­ing, and they are beating stronger than ever." 
Salsa founders plan reunion show 
The musicians credited with giving birth to salsa music will reunite to perform songs they wrote to capture the hopes and struggles of young Latinos in this country during the 1970s. 
Johnny Pacheco, Larry Harlow and Ray Barretto are known for launching salsa at a New York night­club called Cheetah on Aug. 26, 1971. 
The concert was .'recorded and filmed for a docu­mentary called "Our Latin Thing." It sparked a period of intense creativity fueled by the civil rights move­ment and the drive for cultural identity. 
"We were singing songs of protest, love, politics, humanity," says Harlow. 
Allen says WTC may spurn Art 
Woody Allen says Hollywood studios will be too afraid of stirring public opinion to make films about the terrorist attacks in the United States. 
But the subject will be "fair game" for independent filmmakers, the actor-writer-director said. 
"I think there will be a lot of trepidation in com­mercial cinema about that subject matter. I am sure the people in Hollywood, whose main drive in films is to make money, would feel any reference or use of the word hijack or any reference to anything violent or remotely associated to that terrible tragedy would lose customers for them," Allen said in remarks Thursday night at Britain's National Theatre. 
"That will be the only criterion that would matter and so they will force the minions that work for them to remove these things from their movies or not make movies about that subject," he said. 
Allen said he would not make a film about the attacks because his work focuses on comedy and psy­chology. Other filmmakers, though, could offer valu­able, artistic insights into the tragedy, he said. 
Bicoastal broadcast for Emmys 
The Emmy Awards will go bicoastal. adding a broadcast from an NBC studio in New York for nomi­nees who want to avoid traveling to California for the Oct. 7 ceremony. 
Once an Emmy staple, the East Coast-West Coast simulcast was discontinued by the Academy of Television Arts & Sciences more than two decades ago. 
"We're doing it this year in light of the terrible events" of Sept. 11, said incoming TV academy chair­man Bryce Zabel. "We're reaching out to our friends in New York to give them as much comfort and secu­rity as possible." 
New York-based nominees and presenters who pre­fer not to leave "loved ones and families" can gather in NBC's Studio 6A, where "Late Night with Conan O'Brien" is taped, Emmy executive producer Don Mischer said. 
Monday, October 1, 200 l The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
First quarter woes doom Irish season 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Sporrs Editor 
COLLEGE STATION, Texas 

The key to fair competition is a level playing field. Everybody runs the same distance in a race. A game starts out with the score 0-0. 
Unfortunately for the Irish football team, defensive woes and turnovers have tilted that field to their opponent's side in each and every game this year. 
The Irish haven't held a lead since beating USC 38-21 last November. During Notre Dame's current four-game los­ing streak including January's Fiesta Bowl loss to Oregon State -opponents have outscored the Irish in the first quarter a combined 37-0. 
Saturday was no exception, as Texas A&M took advantage of smart play-calling, Irish defen­sive breakdowns and Irish turnovers to the tune of a 14-0 lead after the opening 15 min­utes. 
"When you give up a touch­down early in the game on defense," said Irish head coach Bob Davie, "all of a sudden we are behind 14 and it's like you feel like you are out of your comfort zone completely." 
With 10:07 remaining in the first quarter, Derek Farmer ran 31 yards from the line of scrim­mage to put the Aggies up 6-0 on the first drive of the game. 
On that play, safety Gerome Sapp appeared out of position after Farmer broke through the Irish offensive line. Farmer. a true freshman, ran for 46 yards on the opening scoring drive. 
The Irish drove the ball 43 yards downfield on the next drive before quarterback Carlyle Holiday lobbed a pass into the end zone, and right into the hands of Aggie defender Sean Weston. 
That put the Aggies on the Irish 20-yard line. Then Aggie quarterback Mark Farris took over. Farris completed a 45­yard pass to Terrence Murphy. On the next play, Farris pitched the ball to Oschlor Fleming, who then tossed the ball to a wide­open Farris running down the east sideline. 
"They just out-coached us on that play," Davie said. 

Saturday's first quarter mir­rored Notre Dame's start against another Big 12 school, Nebraska, on Sept. 8. 
On the opening drive of the game in Lincoln, another run­ning back -Husker Dahrann Diedrick -rushed the ball 29 yards on the opening drive to give the Huskers an early lead. 
Then, just as they turned the ball over on Saturday's first drive, the Irish handed the ball back to the Huskers when run­ning back Terrance Howard fumbled the ball on Notre Dame's first play of the season. 
On the first play after the fum­ble, Nebraska quarterback Eric Crouch completed a 22-yard pass to John Gibson to put Nebraska up 14-0 just 4:41 into the game. 
"Just no chance to win," Davie said back in Lincoln. "No chance to win when you are not prepared to play in the first half." 

Unfortunately for the Irish defense, no changes have been made to alleviate those slow starts. 
Even against Michigan State, when the Irish held the Spartans to just three first­quarter points, the Spartans pushed the ball 74 yards down­field on the opening drive before having to settle for a David Schaefer field goal. 
When Notre Dame got the ball back, the Irish pushed the ball up to the Spartan 23-yard line before tailback Julius Jones fumbled, ending Notre Dame's b.est chance to take its first lead in nearly 10 months. 
With the Irish routinely run­ning into the locker room down by more than a touchdown at halftime, the team faces pres­sure not only to hold the oppo­nent scoreless in the second half, but to limit the other team's time of possession to give Notre Dame's "anemic" offense the best chance to score. 
"I thought we let them hold onto the ball a little much," Davie said of the Saturday's sec­ond half in which the Irish limit­ed the Aggies to seven points. "Even though they missed a field goal, they still chewed up a bunch of the clock." 
To their credit, the Irish 

defense held Nebraska scoreless in the second half, while only allowing one touchdown each to Michigan State and Texas A&M in the final 30 minutes. But none of that success matters when the other team is still ahead. 
"I don't know what it is," defensive end Anthony Weaver said Saturday. "We just don't go out there and execute on those first series, but then we settle down and start playing good defense." 
The Irish recognize the prob­lem. Now they just need to fix it. 
"We have to get control of the game quicker and not get behind early before we decide to do something about it," line­backer Tyreo Harrison said. 
AP poll scoring summary & stats ESPN/USA Today Coaches Poll 
scoring
team(first) record points scoring 1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total team (first) recor points .Jo 
summary
1 Miami (Fla.) (34) 3-0 1,744 Notre Dame D 3 D D 3 
1 Miami (Fla.) (35) 3-0 1,4582 Florida (22) 4·0 1,725 14 3 0 7 24 
1stTexasA&M 
2 Florida (16) 4-0 1,436
3 Oklahoma (9) 4-0 1,648 A&M -10:41 3 Oklahoma (8) 4-0 1,370
4 Nebraska (2) 5-0 1,546 team statistics ND A&M 
Farmer 

4 Nebraska 5-0 1,315
31•yd. IUij

5 Texas (4) 4-0 1,511 first downs 12 17 
Cody kick, D·7 5 Texas 4-0 1,263
6 Tennessee (7) 3-0 1,365 
rushes-yards 33-70 40-133 
A&M -5:09 6 Virginia Tech 4-0 1,128
Farris 22•yd.

7 Oregon 4-0 1,310 
passing yards 121 177 
7 Tennessee 3-0 1,119
pass from

8 Virginia Tech 4·0 1,308 
Flemming 8 Oregon 4·0 1,108
comp-att-int 12-27-3 15-27-0
9 UCLA 4-0 1,252 
Cody kick, 0·14 g UCLA 4-0 1,038
total return yards 64 133
10 Fresno State {1) 5-0 1,139 2nd 10 Washington 3-0 924
11 Washington 3·0 1,006 punts-yards 7-303 5-208 
11 Fresno State (1) 5-0 821
A&M -10:14
12 Kansas State 2-1 997 fumbles-lost 3-0 1-0 
Cody 29•yd. 12 South Carolina 4-0 757
13 South Carolina 4-0 952 penalties-yards 4-19 2-25 
field goal, 11-17 

13 Kansas State 2-1 746 
ND -:28
14 Northwestern 3-0 884 time of possession 27:00 33:00 
14 Florida State 3-1 690
Sella 47·yd.

15 Michigan 3-1 803 field goal, 3·17 15 Michigan 3-1 682
individual statistics
16 Florida State 3·1 678 16 Northwestern 3-0 674
3rd
17 Georgia Tech 3-1 573 passing 
17 Georgia Tech 3-1 485 18 LSU 2-1 539 ND -Holiday 6·13-2, LoVecchio 6-12-1, Clark 0-1-0 
no ~coring 
18 BYU 4-0 395 
19 Clemson 3·1 436 
A&M -Farris 14-26-0, Flemming 1-1-0 
18 Purdue 3-0 395
4th
20 BYU 4-0 426 
rushing 
20 LSU 2·1 339
/\&M -13:35
21 Purdue 3-0 321 Webb 13•yd. 21 Clemson 3-1 317ND -Jones 7-31, Fisher 7-27, Holiday 12-23, Clark 1-522 Stanford 3-0 215 
blocked punt return 

22 Texas A&M 4-0 245A&M -Farmer 20-100, Weber 8-30, Joseph 5-9 
Cody kick, 3-24

23 Toledo 4-0 200 23 Toledo 4·0 157 
24 Texas A&M 4-0 182 receiving 
24 Stanford 3-0 129 26 Maryland 4-0 118 
ND -Hunter 8-72, Givens 2-25, Jenkins 1-15, Owens 1-9 25 Maryland 4-0 105 A&M -Porter 4-28, Murphy 2-48, Taylor 2-24, Jones 2-18, Farris
r others receiving votes: Colorado 111, Michigan other leading vote receivers: Iowa 63, Ohio
1-22, Joseph 1-21, de la Torre 1·12, Goynes 1-4, Farmer 1·0St. 74, Ohio Stale 74, Washington St. 66, Wisconsin 64, 

State 61, Colorado 50, Michigan St. 38, Illinois 30,
Georgia 26, Iowa 24, Illinois 17, Virginia 16, Alabama leading tacklers 
Georgia 25, Oregon State 21, Washington St. 20,11, North Carolina 11, Oregon St. 11, Southern Miss. 9, ND -Harrison 14, Boiman 11, Walson 10, Dykes 7, Sapp 5 Wisconsin 18, Southern Miss. 15, Auburn 12, Iowa St. 
Louisville 6, Mississippi St. 5, Syracuse 3, Arizona 2 A&M -Davis 9, Gamble 8, Brooks 8, Kiel 6, Bernard 6 11, Marshall 8, Mississippi St. 6, North Carolina 5 
O
THE 

Texas A&M 24, Notre Dame 3 BSERVER Monday, October 1, 200 I 
Irish head coach and former 
Texas A&M defensive coordinator Bob Davie and several Texas-born Irish 
players returned to Texas 
Saturday hoping for a victory in their home state that could get their season back on track. The Aggies gave Davie and his team a rude welcoming. They jumped out to a 14-0 lead in the first quarter and never looked back. The score could have been even worse if Aggie head coach H.C. Slocum hadn't held hack his offense to avoid embarrassing his friend Davie. 

HAPPY HOMECOMING ••• 
.t.. 




Loss 
continued from page 1 
Holiday in his first start, looked poised to even the score at seven as they marched down­field to the Aggie 13-yard line. But Holiday's end zone pass into triple coverage intended for receiver David Givens land­ed in the hands of Aggie defen­sive back Sean Weston. 
"I think on the pass I could have made a better play than 1 did," Givens said. "I was open at first but when the ball was thrown I was covered. Sometimes you make mistakes and that's what happened on that play." 
The Texas A&M offense took control again, pushing its edge to 14-0 with a throwback play from running back Oschlor Flemming to Farris. Flemming connected to a wide-open Farris who ran the ball into the end zone for the score. 
"I figured there was a 50 per­cent chance they'd cover me," Farris said. "And when they didn't I was just thinking, 'Don't drop it. Man, don't drop 
it... The Aggies ran the score to 17 -0 on a 29-yard Cody Scates field goal before the Irish put themselves on the board with a 47-yard field goal of their own by Nick Setta in the waning sec• onds of the half. Holiday sprained his neck and 
left the game permanently in the last minute of the half when linebacker Christian Rodriguez tackled him. The Irish kicked the field goal on the next play. 
Former starter Matt Lovecchio manned the ball for the rest of the game with the help of backup quarterback Jared Clark when Lovecchio, too, was shaken up on a tackle. 
"Our philosophy the whole game was to stop the run. We were going to hit lHolidayJ if he ran the option," Aggie line­backer Brian Gamble said. "We put two quarterbacks out of the game today and that's what the 'Wrecking Crew' is all about ­lots of' pressure and knocking people on their butts." 
The second half proved to be more of the same, as the Irish failed to score and the Aggies padded their lead with a third touchdown. 

Less than two minutes into the fourth quarter, Aggies' defensive back Jav Brooks blocked a Joey Hildbold punt and linebacker Randall Webb recovered the ball and returned it for a 13-yard touchdown. 
"I had a big revenge factor on the game," Brooks said. "I wanted to get back and make a statement. Last year was a fluke; they had two plays on me. This year I got them back and put the nail in their coffin." 
"After that blocked punt we really hit rock bottom," Davie said. 
The Irish loss adds to a dis-ma! season in which the team has managed to score only two touchdowns and 23 points in three outings. 
The Irish turned the ball over three times on interceptions, increasing the three-game tally to nine -already one more than last year's season's total eight, while the offensive line came out flat, allowing six quarterback sacks. 
"I just can't believe how ane­mic we are especially on offense," Notre Dame athletic director Kevin White said. "We just have to find a way to get better. I believe we are better than we are playing. We need to put ourselves in a position to be a heck of a lot more success­ful. It's very disappointing." 

---------------------------------------------------------111111111111 
page 2 The Observer. IRISH INSIDER Monday, October 1, 2001 
report card 
quarterbacks: Holiday threw two
D 
drive-killing interceptions while 
LoVecchio proved no more effective 
in the second half and also threw 
and interception. 

B 
running backs: In limited chances Fisher averaged close to four yards per carry while Jones nearly gained 
4.5 per carry. Neither had many opportunities. 
B 
receivers: Hunter had a career-high eight catches while Owens caught the first pass of his career. But they 
didn't make any necessary big plays. 
F 
offensive line: The problems on offense start up front. The running backs had few holes to run through and the line 
allowed six quarterback sacks. 
C 
defensive line: The line made a lot of tackles bul in short yardage situa­tions Texas A&M controlled the line 
of scrimmage. 
linebackers: Boiman, Watson and 
8-Harrison combined for 25 tackles 
but did not record a single sack. They also failed to make a big play. 
secondary: They were out of position D on the second touchdown. Jefferson 
got burnt for another big gain and they did make an interception. 
special learns: Setta kicked the longestC field goal of his career but there was a punt blocked for a touchdown and the return game was a non-factor.. 
coaching: Jones said there was some­F thing missing this game. He didn't know what it was. We do: effective coaching. 
1.63 
overall: The Irish seem to get worse and worse every week. 
adding up the numbers 
Consecutive football seasons 
114 
without an 0-3 season before Saturday 
87 206 largest crowd ever to watch a game , in Texas 
career punt blocks by Aggie senior Jay Brooks, who blocked the punt 
5 
Saturday -all have been returned for touchdowns 
1 
career catches by senior tight end John Owens 
Irish turnovers in 2001 -one 
9 
more 'than last year's NCAA record 
eight turnovers 

1962 the last time Notre Dame failed to hold a lead for tour straight games 
Career losses by Gerry Faust ­
2 6 
Davie has 22 with eight games 
remaining in 2001 

115 Notre Dame's NCAA ranking in scoring offense -worst in the country 
limes Texas A&M has lost at home 
o 
to a non-conference opponent since Slocum became head coach in 1989 
IRISH INSIGHT 
COLLEGE STATION, Texas Saturday, Bob Davie's and R.C. Slocum's teams were worlds apart. 
But just four weeks ago, their teams were in the same place. While Davie's team was dismantled by Nebraska on 
Sept. 8, Slocum's needed a 22-point comeback to beat lightly­regarded McNeese State in his team's first game of the 

year on Sept. 1. Mike Connolly So why, less than a month 
Outside 
later has 
Looking In 
Slocum's team improved so much while Davie's has taken a step backwards? Even Davie knows the answer to that one. 
"It's better coaching,'; Davie said. "He's done a tremendous job ... We're going backwards because I haven't coached them right ... They are coaching better than we are. That's why they are going in the right direction." 
Davie said from the beginning of the season that this was his most talented team. Every player was recruited by Davie. This team is full of high school All-Americans and highly touted recruits. So why isn't it winning? 
"I don't know what it is but some­thing is missing. We have to figure out what it is," tailback Julius Jones said. 
It's pretty obvious what it is: Davie. Throughout his tenure as head coach his teams have dug early holes for themselves. They always start the season slow. His combined record in the first three games of his five years as head coach is 7-9. 


His teams start slow in games, too. The Irish have yet to lead a game this season. 
Somehow he always manages to right the ship. His teams rally at the end of the season to pull off barely respectable records and his teams have also overcome great odds to win games. 
But you have to wonder if this is a product of great coaching -or a never-say-die attitude by his play­ers. 
My vote is for the latter. 
Davie's players will publicly defend him and say that they need to make more big plays and that it's not all the coach's fault. They will say it's a team game. That everyone is to blame for the first 0­3 start in Irish history. 
To some degree they are correct. 
Davie did not throw the intercep­tion on the first drive. 
Carlyle Holiday did. 
Davie did not get burnt by Terrence Murphy for a 45 yard gain in the first quarter. 
Clifford Jefferson did. 
But Davie put those players into position to make those mistakes. As unfair as it may seem, he is accountable for every mistake. An athletic director can't fire a team so he has to fire the head coach. 
"I just can't believe how anemic our football team is right now,'" Irish athletic director Kevin White said. "We just have to find a way to get better. I believe we are better than we are playing. We need to put ourselves in a position to be a heck of a lot more successful. It's very disappointing.'" 
Davie's situation has become pathetic. He's obviously in over his head. He knows it. His team knows 
.. 

it and Irish fans know it. Even 
opposing coaches know it. 
His longtime friend Slocum had 
mercy on him this weekend know­
ing how tough his situation is right 
now. 
''I've got one of the closest friends 
in the world on the other end of the 
sideline so it wasn't in me to say 
'Let's throw it up in the air 10 
more times,"' Slocum said after the 
game. "There was a point in the 
ball game that I told the offensive 
coordinators not to throw the ball. I 
hate beating him and I didn't see 
any reason to take advantage of 
him or his team like that." 
Slocum actually felt pity for Notre 
Dame and took it easy on the Irish. 
That's the kind of treatment that 
the Prairie View A&Ms of the world 
should be getting not Notre Dame. 
"It hurts. There is a lot of pride 
on this football team," Davie said. 
"But the people I really feel bad for 
are the Notre Dame fans. Ifs got to 

be frustrating watching this." 
Right now, as Davie said in his 
press conference, there isn't one 
thing the Irish do well. The offense 
can't score. The defense doesn't 
show up in the first quarter. Even 
the special teams are average at 
best. 
"The bottom line is I take respon­

sibility for it," Davie said. "If it was 
just one thing. certainly we could 
correct that. It's not just one 
thing.'' 
Actually, the problems on this 
year's team do stem from one 
thing. 
And at season's end, Kevin White 
should correct that one thin11 ___. 
Contact Mike Con_n_rf/J at.,,-. Connolly.f~®_!d.fiii. The views expresse_,r,m this column are those of tlya'iithor and not necessarily . .',ose ofThe Observer. 

NSIDER 
O
THE Monday, October 1, 2001 BSERVER Texas A&M 24, Notre Dame 3 
Hitting rock bottom 
Notre Dame starts season 0-3 for first time in history as Texas A&M dominates from start to finish in all facets of24-3 victory 

PETER RICHARDSON/The Observer 
Texas A&M tailback Keith Joseph flies over Irish defenders Cedrick Hilliard ( 50) and Courtney Watson (33) on a criti­cal fourth down play In the second quarter. Joseph needed a few inches for a first down but easily gained three yards. 

quote of the game
player of the game 
"/don't know what we are good at
Derek Farmer 
right now. You've got to be a pretty The true freshman ranfor IOO yards and scored optimistic person to find very manya touchdown in his first collegiate start. He was 
positives right now. " Texas A&M since 1997­-.the first true freshman to start at tailback for 
Bob Davie Notre Dame head coach 
By KERRY SMITH Sports Writer 
COLLEGE STATION, Texas 

The Texas A&M fans who sang the 
"Aggie War Hymn" after Saturday's 
game sent a symbolic message. Just as 
their swaying physically shook Kyle 
Field, their team's 24-3 win against the 
Irish shook Notre Dame record books. 
The Aggies' crushing blow handed the 
Irish their third straight loss this season, 
marking the first tim·e Notre Dame has 
started 0-3 in the school's 114-year his­
tory. 

"The bottom line is I take responsibili­ty for it," Davie said. "If it was just one thing, certainly we could correct that. It's not one thing ... We've got to get it done because I am not getting it done and I am going to take responsibility for it." 
The Aggies -hungry for national attention -proved with their 4-0 start that they are in it for the long haul, while the Irish only proved there is a long season ahead. 
"This game has been circled on the calendar," Aggie quarterback Mark Farris said. "There aren't many teams that get to play, let alone beat [the Irish]." 
And a beating is exactly what the Irish took. 
The Aggies ran all over the Irish offen­sively, while pounding the team defen­sively. 
Despite the Aggies' ease in scoring, Texas A&M head coach R.C. Slocum pulled the attack back late in the game. 
''I've got one of the closest friends in the world on the other end of the side­line, so it wasn't in me to say 'Let's throw it up in the air 10 more times,"' Slocum said of Davie. "There was a point in the ball game that I told the offensive coaches not to throw the ball. I hate beating him and I didn't see any reason to take advantage of him or his team like that." 
But the Aggie offense was able to take advantage early, scoring on its first three possessions. The Irish failed to make a defensive stop until late in the first half when the Aggies turned the ball over on downs. 
Texas A&M cracked the scoreboard just five minutes into the first quarter when running back Derek Farmer rushed the ball into the end zone on a 31-yard draw play. 
"I saw daylight ... and I made a cut," Farmer said. "I knew I had to get a touchdown and no one was going to stop tne." 
Farmer, a true l'reshman, rushed for 100 yards in his first collegiate start, just 12 yards shy of Notre Dame's total rushing gains on the day. 
The Irish, led by quarterback Carlyle 
see LOSS/page 4 

stat of the game 
23 total points 
Notre Dame has scoredjust 23 points in its first three games -one less than Texas A&M scored Saturday. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 12 Monday, October 1, 2001 
After-hours fun (without b 
Where to go and what to do after midnight on we 
By MERIDETH PIERCE 
Scene Writer 
So now what? We all know what it's like when those pesky parietals roll around and you are still wide awake and ready to do something. But what can you do after midnight on weekdays or 2 a.m.? Well, fear no more dear night owls, for here is a veritable cor­nucopia of activities to keep you going all night long! 
For those with a car or cab fare, there are many things to do off campus at any hour. Most of them involve food that would keep you up all night, but that is half the fun. 
The closest night adventure is a trip to Denny's. which is located just north of the University on US 31/933. For those without a car. the walk is not long and many students have been known to make the journey into night on foot for a scrumptious Grand Slam. Lazy students take the shuttle to the entrance of Saint Mary's and ask to get out of the bus there. 
If any fiber in your body was tired, Denny's color scheme alo-ne will jolt you back to life. It looks like the 80s exploded inside the diner. The food is• greasy and the coffee is always pour­ing, which makes it the perfect late­night or early-morning snack. 
A step up from Denny's is Steak 'n Shake. The closest one to the campus­es is on the corn-er of Grape and Douglas. It is more expensive then Denny's, but has the same diner feel and serves excellent milk shakes. If burgers and fries are not your thing Taco Bell on US31/933 is open late, too. The dining area, however. closes early so you will have to have to navi­gate the drive-thru. That also means you have to find somewhere inventive to eat your tacos. Be careful of going to parks or playgrounds because many have rules restricting visiting times and your late-night adventure does not want to end in a lengthy conversation with the Indiana State Police. 
If two diners are not enough to choose from, add Nick's Patio to your list of culinary choices. Similar to Denny's as far as food goes, Nick's is a great place to get some comforting food with little to no nutritional value. Located on North Ironwood, Nick's is conveniently located near Coach's and The Linebacker. This makes the 24­hour diner a great post-parietal/bar hangout. 
The leading choice for post-parietal food is, however, Boracho Burrito. Also on North Ironwood, two recent Notre Dame alumni (who have obviously rec­ognized the need for good food late at night) run this hangout. Their food is cheap and the burritos are huge and greasy. It is almost always busy. but it is worth the wait. Even if you are not hungry it is a great place to watch peo­ple as bar-goers rush in for food until 4 a.m. on the weekend. 
After your stomach is full, you could still be craving late night festivities. For those with an active imagination. how about a trip to the megastore Meijer? The sheer size of the store combined with you and your friends and an unending amount of supplies for fun can spell disaster or hours of fun. Challenge your friends to a wrap­ping paper duel. dart around suspi­ciously humming the Mission Impossible theme song and try on obnoxious clothing articles and put on a fashion show for the other shoppers. Try to stay just on the line of getting kicked out. Then again, for those pro­ductive students who just can not sleep, getting some real shopping domi is also an option. 
As you have noticed most of these options have required a car and have been off campus. What about the stu­dents without wheels? Are they left to be high and dry? There are plenty of activities to take part of right on cam­pus all the time. 
If you are hungry go to the ever pop­ular Reeker's. Students flock there every night after parietals to finish up conversations or grab some food. However. if you arc looking for fun you should definitely show up there Thursday through Saturday late at night when those who spent the evening at the bar come in searching for food. They alone can provide a few 


Scene is looking for writers, copy editors and music, m Interested? E-mail scene@nd.edu o 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Monday, October I, 200I page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Exploring the joy of hitchhiking 
and Iowa but the police whom I met did considerably easier if you are travelling not care. with a woman in your party. Perhaps I 
Once you get past your fear of the am just downright ugly or scary, but l police, the next issue is whether a homi-have waited anywhere from several cidal maniac or regular person will pick minutes to 14 hours to get a ride. On 
you up. I got my rides from peo-~.·.. ··-..c-.· . average, it takes me about two pie who wanted to do a good ~.~.·~-~ hours to get a ride, though 
..j;;..~

"· ·'-~~ .·· there is less wait in the.I:} · -~-· · •.'\ West.
fr, .· .,·. .' /:' , 
Hitc~hiking_ -~, ~ . , 1: ., j ,. ;/1 l. \ requires_ p~trnnc~ · ~ r~~ and opt1m1sm. Smee 
r/ ,.'''
!ffiiii~tli ,

1, 1 . I am shy, my .,...........,.. .._.,,,.,..,. ./ •Ji method is to hold a 
. --i.~~.Aill I· sign with my desti­. , \. · , J nation or general :, · ·, \ , 0 / direction, either by 
'\I \1\,. ~ ! ,.'/ • tru~k stop exit or on 
, ,I ·., . , the mterstate and 
\ "" · ' £ wait for people to stop. 
. , ' You want to choose a 
' .),' spot where vehicles arc 
· going slow or can pull over. 
An extrovert might have better luck getting rides by directly approaching drivers. While truckers are the best bet for long rides, unfortunately most of them will not give you a ride since it vio­lates their company's rules. On my two trips. I have averaged 460 miles per day. Now this is good, except that on my last trip I was hitchhiking around the clock and not sleeping much. 
Finding a place to sleep can be prob­lematic. Getting a hotel room is cheat­ing, since it would increase the trip's cost tenfold. On my first trip, 1slept 
twice inside a truck (they have bunk beds), once at a friend's, and one time under the stars when I was stranded in a national park. On the second trip, I had less luck and did not get much sleep. I slept several times in vehicles, twice at rest stops on the grass, and once in a trailer trucker's chapel. 
· Some drivers will talk your ear off and with others you might just end up listen­ing to Bavarian polka music or the local Spanish AM station. On my last trip I met two outlaws, a pot-smoking older hippie who sold bracelets to pay for gas and let me drive twice, a couple who did not have licenses, two young hippies who had just dumpster-dived the rest­stop, two guys who had been stuck at a truck stop for two days, two guys who drove me the wrong direction and a guy who was just out driving nowhere in particular. 
I do not think I will ever forget the experience. 
So grab a marker, some cardboard, a backpack full of food and water, a sleep­ing bag and head out to the nearby 1-80 on-ramp. Stick out your thumb and smile. The world is yours to explore. 
Aaron Kreider is a graduate student in the sociology department. fie can be reached at kreider.l@nd.edu. His col­umn appears every other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
Being fair to Muslims 
Nila Ahmad 
sophomore Regina Hall Sept. 28, 200 I 

This week I will eschew politics to focus on the joys of hitchhiking. Two years ago I journeyed from Indiana to Seattle, and this past summer I went to Wyoming and back. Altogether, I have 
traveled over 4,500 miles, for little more than the cost of food. 
I choose to hitch­hike because it is the most practical form of environmental friendly transporta­tion and since it 

reflects how I want to see society 
Aaron Kreider 
transformed. I would like to sec a society where peo­Think, ple would willingly Question, help each other. Resist Anarchists call this "mutual aid." One way to encourage this, is to put yourself in a position where you need help. 
You may first want to know if hitch­hiking is legal. Well, it depends. In some states it is illegal and some cities have local ordinances against it. In general. I would not worry about this since police tend to ignore these rules. If you want to stay out of trouble, do not hitchhike directly on the interstate in well-popu­lated states. Instead, choose a spot by the on-ramp, at a truck stop or at a ser­vice plaza. On my last trip, I learned that hitchhiking is illegal in Wyoming 
deed or who were on a long trip and bored. 
T~e~ were . Chnstians, tru~k dn­vers, former hitch­hikers, normal folks· or strange people. I never refused a ride going my direction but a little screening 
coul~ be helpful ­
particularly for women travelers. Most of my (ides were from 
men. I definitely met some ~.. . characters but they helped ~­turn tho trip into an exciting adven­ture. The only time I felt a bit scared was when I was sitting between two self-sl.yled ''mercenaries" in oul.iaw country in Wyoming. They were a bit too close to being militia-supporters for my liking and the one guy's story about get­ting a felony for cutting-off someone's finger did not help. Though, talk aside, they were nice people. Several drivers even offered to buy me a meal or give me money. 
Ah. but how enicient is hitchhiking? My experience here is very mixed. It is 
\<>.., 
" ~ 

Outreach ND thanks supporters 
The Board of Outreach ND (Notre Dame's unrecognized bisexual, lesbian, gay and questioning student organization) would like to thank its members and friends for their help in making Solidarity Sunday a success. Solidarity Sunday is a national day in which as Catholics join in prayer to bring an end to hateful words and actions directed at gay, lesbian and bisexual people. 
Thank you to our members for at least 210 man hours of shopping, cut­ting, pinning, gluing and distributing ribbons and prayer cards. We com­mend you for your time and courage in handing them out after masses. You work has allowed 3,600 cards and ribbons to reach members of our com­
munity. 
Thank you to our donors for nearly $300 in ribbons. glue. safety pins and pizza for our hardworking volunteers. Our gratitude goes out to the individ­uals and organizations that have faithfully supported us. 
Thank you to all of the studenL"i, faculty, staff and community members for accepting Solidarity Sunday cards and displaying your ribbons. We are overwhelmingly grateful for your support. 
We would also like to thank the members of Campus Ministry who have helped to organize the event and provided us with prayer cards. However, we wish to offer credit where credit is due. Outreach, its members, friends and donors are responsible f'or the inspiration and realization of' Solidarity Sunday. While it is recognized as a Campus Ministry program, the unrecog­nized bisexual. lesbian, gay and questioning student group, Outreach ND has labored to spread the message of acceptance to Notre Dame. 
As you consider Solidarity Sunday's message, remember that the students who have worked so hard to bring it to you have been silenced. They do not enjoy the benefits of' club status -the right to advertise, have a table at activities night, meet on campus or receive funding through the University. Against these odds, Outreach ND persists in serving the Notre Dame com­munity. We hope that you feel Outreach ND deserves the support of' the University in its mission. 
Thank you again for your support. 
Frankie O'Connor 
co-chair 
Brad Mazner 
co-chair 
Michaela Murray-Nolan 
committee coordinator 
Joe Pettibone 
secretary and webmaster 
Molly Morin 
treasurer 
Sept. 28, 200 I 

Monday, October 1, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
By MATT PURRIE, AARON 
RONSHEIM 
Sports Writers 
Until Thursday night, the sea­son was not all the team expected it to be. But with a 6­2 win over Pasquerilla East, Lvons showed that it is still early and that no team should be counted out. 
•·we learned a lot from our first two games," said Lyons defensive coordinator Casey McKean. "But we have changed some things up and are now a winning ball team." 
Things did not look good early for the Lyons in the ·flrst half. After punting on their first and second possessions, they found themselves pinned deep in their own territory on the 3­yard line. 
On third down, while trying to run a double reverse from their own 4, they fumbled the second exchange in the end zone. It was ruled a safety giv­ing the Pyros a 2-0 lead. 
Despite this early mistake, Lyons was quick to regroup. 
With PE's defense playing to perfection, Lyon's offense was looking for anything and the Pyros were forced to punt their first three possessions thanks to strong play by the Lyons' defense. 
It was not until the last drive 
of the first half that either team 
put up a drive of any length. 
Starting around the 50-yard line with only minutes remain­ing, the Lyons suddenly clicked with their passing game. After two straight Sarah Jenkins completions, they found them-
Pyros cannot escape Lyons' den in 6-2 loss 
selves at the 20 with 15 sec­with a 25-6 victory over back Tia Vonil. onds left. Pangborn, highlighted by a per­"She was outstanding on both 
On the very next play Jenkins fectly-executed hook and lad­defense and offense," LaRossa. completed another pass, this der play at the end of the first. said. time connecting with senior half. The PW quick strike offense wide out Megan Chandler. "I've seen a lot of inter-hall went to work and Schmidt Chandler juked her defender football games and I've never found one of her receivers on and danced into the endzone seen a play like that," said rec the next play for a 70-yard for the touchdown. sports supervisor Tim Knapp. score. 
After halftime, it was back to ''Mavbc Notre Dame should Both teams failed to move the a battle of the defense. take ·some pointers from PW." ball on their next two drives. While the Lyons offense never With 30 seconds left in the Setting up the dramatic ending really moved the ball again, first half and the score tied at of the first half. 
P.E. did take advantage of six the Weasels pulled a trick The Weasels offense added 
some good field posi­tion. "We learned a lot from 
Twice they our first two games. But 
got inside 
we have changed some
the Lyons 10, but each things up and are now a time they 
winning ball team." 

W e r C 
stopped 
short of Casey McKeon • 
scoring. With Lyons defensive coordinator 
1:39 left, the Pyros had out of the bag. PW quarter­back Leslie Schmidt threw a 10-yard curl pass to wide receiver Andi Will. Will pitched the ball to fellow wide-out Christen Boyd before her flag could be two more scores in the second half as the Phoxes began to wear down. Schmidt moved the Weasels effectively in their pass happy offense scoring in two of their three second half drives. 
"We gave up an early score, but we settled down after that," Canfield said. "We picked it up big in the second half." 
One of the problems for the Phoxes has been a lack of attendance at practice and games. On Thursday night only 
one last shot at winning the pulled and Boyd took the pitch ten women were present for game. and raced down the sideline the game. 
On the fourth play of the and into the end zone for a 50-"We have the talent to win," drive, a Pyros pass was deflect­yard score. LaRossa said. "We need some ed and bounced around among "Our girls have never seen a girls to come out so we can get both teams' players. When it play like that before," said a good look in practice. I think was all over, Lyons Meghan Pangborn coach Chris LaRossa. we can still run the table and Barloco came up with the ball, "The big plays killed us today." make a run to the stadium." sealing the victory. The Weasels scored on three But the stadium is not just a 
"We were upset [about] the play over 30 yards. Schmidt fin­goal for Pangborn. PW has its interceptions we had the ished the game with four eyes set that way too. opportunity to get early," said touchdown passes. "One more win and we will Meghan. "But we made sure "Our offense is like the 1991 back in the playoffs and on the not to miss out on the ones Houston Oilers who were way to the stadium," Schmidt late." known as the greatest show on said. 
turf," said PW offensive coordi­
nator Mike Canfield. "We rely

Pasquerilla West 25, Welsh 14, Breen Phillips 0 
on or passing game to move the 

A trip to Notre Dame stadi­
Pangborn 6 
ball." . 

um is getting closer with eachThe Pasquerilla West offense Pangborn's only score came game for Welsh Hall and the
came to life Thursday night on a 40-yard pass to running 
Whirlwinds are chasing it with their defense. With a 14-0 win receivers which forces the offenses to run," Blaney said. "In this league if you can force a team to run you have great chance of stopping them." 
The difference in Thursday's win came down to two plays. 
The first came on Welsh's first drive. Welsh started the game with 40-yard completion down the left sideline. But after BP forced three straight incom­plete passes, it appeared to have stopped the Welsh drive. On a forth goal from the 20 yard-line Welsh's fre-shman quarterback Lauren Hoeck found Erin McKenzie in the back of the end-zone for a 6-0 lead. The point after failed. 
After each team traded punts Welsh sophomore defensive back Emily Oess returned an interception for a touchdown giving Welsh a commanding 12-0 led. 
The Whirlwinds went up for a successful two-point conversion that gave them a 14-0 half time led. 
The Welsh defense came up big in the second half after the Welsh offense turned the ball over to BP inside their own 20 yard line two times. 
"We have to execute the plays. We can't win if we don't execute," said BP Coach Corey Timlin. "It was a frustrating loss, we were on the doorstep a couple of times." 
The loss of starting running back Kelly Deckelman to an injury has had a big impact on the team. Deckelman injured her collarbone and is expected to miss the rest of the season. 
"She is our emotional leader," Timlin said. "She and our quarterback are the heart and soul of our team." 
Welsh has already clinched a spot in this year's playoffs but they plam to remain focused the rest of the season. 
"We have to take it one game at a time," Lichon said. "We can't be distracted." 
Contact Matt Furrie at mfurrie@nd.edu and Aaron Ronsheim at ronsheim. l@nd.edu. 
Ombudsperson 
The University of Notre Dame is pleased to announce that Professor Maxwell JohnsorJ 
over Breen-Philips last Thursday night Welsh approved to 4-0 while BP dropped to 1-1-1. 
"The defense made plays all night," said head coach Joe Blaney. "They came up big." 
Two of the keys to Welsh's dominant defense is the play of cornerbacks Erin McKenzie and captain Vanessa Lichon. 
"Erin and Vanessa can take out the opposing teams 

JNTERRAC£: 
will serve as University Ombudsperson for 
e'Value"a+i~,9 you!" !"elatio"'ships 
Discriminatory Harassment. 
v\'edr1es...-loy, Cictol,ef' 3, 200-1 
Cente!" f..:w Socicil Conce1'1\S 
5:30 F'·'"'· 
If you are a victim of discriminatory harassment and do not know where to turn, call the University Ombudsperson for Discriminatory Harassment at 631-3909. 



The University of Notre Dame believes in the intrinsic value of all human beings. It is. moreover, committed to the full peaceable participation of all Its members in the educational endeavor It fosters. Accordingly. the Urnvers,ty proh1bIts d1scnmmatory harassment by all faculty, !:ldministrators, staff, and students. 
In this context, harassment is any physica' rondue! intentionally inflicting injury on the parson or property of another, or any intentional threat of such conduct, or any hostile, intentional, and persistent badgering addressed directly at another or small 9'.°~ps of others, that is intended to intimidate its victim(s) from any University activity, or any verbal at1ack. imended to provoke the victim to 
This month's discussion will focus on the stages of interracial
immediate physical retaliation. Harassment in general is prohibited in the University's regulations 
dating and the values associated with them. Anyone Conduct as described above conslitute1ic1iscriminatory harassment, if, in acldition, it is accompanied by intentionally demean­interested in this topic is welcome to attend. FREE Spanishing expressions concerning the rai;e, gender, religion. sexual orientation, national origin, or disability of the victim(sl • 
food will be served in honor of Hispanic Heritage Month. For a fuller descctption o1 discriminatory harassment and reporting procedures see du Lac, lhe Faculty Handbook. or Sta.If Handbook. 
RSVP to MSPS at 631-5317 
Monday, October 1, 2001

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 

Irish fall short in invite 
ByJOE LINDSLEY 
Spam W rirer 
The surprise performance of a freshman was the bright­est aspect of the weekend for the Irish women's golf team as they finished third at the Notre Dame Invitational on the par 72, 5,955-yard Warren Golf Course. 
Freshman Karen Lotta Jed an Irish team that was look­ing to repeat its title-winning performance from last year. Lotta shot a 79 on Sunday, with a 54-holc total of 243. 
Notre Dame finished with a 54-hole team total of 985, compared to Wichita State's 973 and Iowa's 968. 
Notre Dame was within one stroke of the lead Friday, and four strokes of first-place Iowa at the end of play Saturday, but could not make up the deficit during the final round. 
Lotta, who did not play competitive golf until her senior year in high school, finished in 9th place in the tournament, followed by sophomore Shannon Byrne in 10th, and Kristin McMurtie in 16th. 
·"(Lotta] has a long ball," said sophomore Rebecca Rogers. "I really think she's going to be a great asset to the team." 
The Irish, who have not played competitively since the Notre Dame Campus Championships on Sept. 9th. were not quick to make excuses for their perfor­mance, but did offer some potential factors that may have led to the loss. 
"Since we got a [late start], nament under new head coach Debbie King. 
"If there's one thing I can say about Coach King, she's always looking at the positive aspect," Rogers said. "She's looking at it as our building point. We know we can improve." 
Although they finished third 
we haven't been play­ing under competitive circum­stances like 
o t h e r teams," s a i d Rogers, passed her title as de­fending N o t r e D a m e champion on to Wichita 
"We put up some really decent numbers last year. This year, I'm not exactly sure what happened. It's our home course. We wanted to win this tournament." 
Rebecca Rogers sophomore 

in a field of 15, much of the lrish's disappointed stemmed from their inability to repeat their superior per­formance at the same tournament a year ago. 
"We put up some really decent num­bers last year. This 
State's Amy Lee, finished with a final round of 73. "[But] another way of looking at things is that we got a lot of time to practice and to con­centrate on little things." 
"The first tournament [is] always an adjustment peri­od," said sophomore Jeanne Murphy. "(During] the first tournament, you're always a little nervous just getting back into things." 
This was also the first tour­vear, I'm not exactly sure \vhat happened," Rogers said. 
"It's our home course. We wanted to win this tourna­ment," Murphy said. 
Next weekend the Irish travel to Franklin, Ind. to par­ticipate in Indiana University's Shootout at the Legends. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at Lindsley. l@nd.edu. 
PGA 

Kite ties record in Gold Rush 
Associated Press 

EL DORADO HILLS, Calif. Tom Kite shot a 5-under-par 67 Sunday to hold off Allen Doyle by one stroke and tie a Senior PGA Tour record in winning the Gold Hush Classic. 
Kite, who started the final round with a five-stroke lead, stumbled early with two bogeys and saw Doyle tie him for the lead twice. But Kite went ahead for good with a birdie on No. 12 at the Serrano Country Club course and won for the first time this year. 
He collected $195,000 for his third career senior victory and established a tournament scoring mark with a 22-under 
194. That matched the tour record in relation to par. Raymond Floyd set the mark at the Gulfstream Aerospace Invitational in 1993 and Ed Dougherty tied it this year at the TD Waterhouse Championship. 
It was a disappointing loss for Doyle who didn't have a bogey in a closing 63. His 195 tied defending champion Jim Thorpe's record total a year ago. 
Doyle won $114,400 and passed Bruce Fleisher to take over first place on the money list. Doyle now has $2,332,942. while Fleisher, who tied for ninth and won $35,100, now has $2,278,857. 
Dougherty shot a 66 to fin­ish third, four strokes behind Kite. while Don Pooley (65). Bruce Lietzke (67) and Walter Hall (66) were all another stroke back. 
Kite's lead didn't last long as consecutive bogeys started the trouble. 
Playing in the group ahead, Doyle had a birdie at No. 6 to pull even with Kite. But Kite also birdied 6 to retake the lead. 
Doyle caught him for the final time with three straight birdies, the final one at No. 
11. Kite made birdie at 12 and seemed to have wrapped up the tournament when he made an 8-footer for birdie at No. 15. He pumped his fist for emphasis as he took a three­shot lead. 
Doy le made birdies at 16 and 17 to cut the lead to one stroke. Kite held on by mak­ing a nice par save at 17 and also making par on the final hole. 

What does the Church teach? Why does it matter? Have questions and need a place to ask them? Each one credit course in the series "Know Your Catholic Faith" will reflect on a central feature of the Catholic faith, so that students come away with a clear idea of what the Church holds on these topics as well as a basic theological and personal understanding ofthem. The courses will be based on the Catechism of the Catholic Church plus other pertinent texts, supplemented by personal reflection and experiential learning where appropriate. These courses should meet the needs of those students who know little or nothing about the faith, as well as those who are familiar with the faith but do not feel they have a clear grasp of certain features of Christian doctrine. The courses will be presented in a variety of formats and venues. 
Courses Now Open for Enrollment: 


The Sacraments 
Theo. 340B. 1 credit. S/U Instructor: Pamela Jackson 
Wednesdays, 5:30 p.m. -7:35 p.m., Oct. 3, 10, 17, 31, Nov. 7, 14 Coleman Morse Center, Rm. 330 

Creation 
Theo. 340C. 1 credit. S/U Instructor: John Cavadini 
Mondays, 6:00 p.m.-8:05 p.m., Oct. 8, 15, 29, Nov. 5, 12, 20 Keough Hall Common Room 



Prayer 

Theo. 340A. 1 credit. S/U Instructor: Lawrence Cunningham 
Sundays, 6:15 p.m.-8:20 p.m., Sept. 30, Oct. 7, 14, Nov. 4, 11, 18 Coleman Morse Center, Rm. 330 
Forfurther information about registering/ or these courses, contact Dorothy Anderson in the Theology Department, 631-6662. Syllabifor the courses can be obtained at the Theology Dept. main office. 

Mo11d;1y, Ow1be1· I, 1001 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
--II 
I 
I 
• 


I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
. I I 
I 
I 
i 
l 
I 1 
-... ! 
Goldman, Sachs & Co. 
Wednesday, October 3, 2001 Equities and Fixed Income, Currency and_ Commodities Information Session Center for Continuing Education, Room 100 6:00 -8:00 PM 
Friday, October 5, 2001 Women's Firmwide Luncheon University Club, Stadium Room 12:00 -2:00 PM RSVP to maria.bavaro@gs.com 

MINDS. WIDE DPEN~M www.gs.com 

Goldman Sachs, an equal opportunity employer, does not discriminate in employment on any basis that is prohibited by federal, state or local laws.© 2001 Goldman, Sachs & Co. 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, October 1, 2001 
21 inducted in 
Hall of Fame 
. Athletic deparment holds the first induction since 1993 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
Sports Writer 

Anne Pikosovits may not remember that much about her field hockey days at Saint Mary's, but Saint Mary's will remember her forever. 
Pikosovits was inducted in the re-established Saint Mary's Athletic Hall of Fame with 11 of her teammates Saturday morning. The field hockey team, which was established in 1934, was the first organized competitive sports team at 
deceased or unable to travel, the 1938 alumna was humble. 
"I don't remember a thing about this," she laughed. accepting the glass trophy each of the inductees were awarded. "We had a few bumps and bruises, but we had a good time.... This is just wonderful." 
Saturday's induction was the first in eight years at Saint Mary's. The Hall of Fame, created by former athletic director Jo-Ann Nester, had not had an induction since 1993. Lynn Kachmarik, current athletic director, re-established the Hall of Fame and added 21 inductees in the 2001 class. 
Included in the inductee class was Nester, who was honored for creating the Student-Athlete Advisory Council and elevating Saint Mary's to NCAA Division Ill status. Also inducted was Mary Fran Shaff Meekison, class of 1940. for her com­mitment to intramural ath­letics before the institution of varsity sports teams at the College. 
One of the more emotional 
inductions was the honor given to former basketball coach Marvin Wood, who died in 2000. 
Wood coached Saint Mary's basketball from 1984 to 1995, where he turned the program around and taught players not only about basketball, but about life, according to Taromye Radke-Raster, class of 1988 and former player under Wood. 
Raster read Wood's cita­tion through tears, and pre­sented the trophy to Wood's wife, Mary Lou, who accept­ed it on his behalf. 
"He loved this place," Mary Lou said. "And h~ loved his girls. lt was a great way for him to wrap up his career." 
0 t h e r 
inductees 
included 

S a i n t "I don't remember a thing 
Debbie 

Mary's. about this. We had a few 
Laverie,
Accept­

bumps and bruises, but class of 
ing the 
1985, was

we had a good time ...
honor -0n 
inducted 

behalf of This is just wonderful.,, for her ten­her team­
nis accom­
mates who 
plishments

Anne Pikosovits
w e r e 
at Saint 

either inductee 
Mary's, 
where she 

earned NAIA All-American 
honors and qualified for the 
national championship. 
Meghan Rafferty Weldon, 
dass of 1988, was inducted 
for her swimming accom­
plishments, as a record-set­
ter in three events and a 
national championship qual­
ifier. 
Nicole Hill Colucci, class of 1991, was inducted for her record-setting performances in track and field. Kelly Ann Cook Collins, class of ·1992, .was inducted for her All­American soccer status. Karen Lorton was inducted for her volleyball career, in which she earned .national 
statistical rankings and six 
school records. 
Megan Dalsaso, class of 
1994, was inducted for her 
soccer achievements as a 
three-time All-Regio.n Soccer 
player and NSCAA All­
American. 
. The Hall of Fame 
inductees' photos will be on 
display at Angela Athletic 
Facility. 
Contact Noreen Gillespie at gill0843@saintmarys.edu. 
Tennis 
continued from page 24 

three, but if I don't make it I could lose at any position. either way," Taborga said. "It's a big responsibility play­ing one, and I thiuk that if I played like I did now [against Ball St.] I'll be able to take it. Obviously it will take some time to adjust." 
The Irish received major contributions from both sophomore Luis Haddock­Morales and senior Andrew Laflin, as each wrapped up the weekend with 6-0 records in are really capable of winning, 
but it's who is going to win the 
most consistently." 
A number of Irish players 
are in contention to fill the No. 
3 doubles slot for the Irish, 
with senior James Malhame 
and freshman Paul 
McNaughton being key con-. 
tenders. McNaughton turned 
in a 3-1 record for the Irish in 
doubles, and Malhame record­
ed one doubles victory for the 
Irish before being hampered 
by a back injury. 
"There are so many math­
ematical combinations [in dou­
bles] if you look at what you 
could do," Pate said.."A lot of 
the guys from last year have 
improved and we have a lot of 
new guys that can play. Paul 
McNaughton has been a very 
bright spot for us. Ile's a guy 
who we recruited as a really 
good doubles player who has 
those skills, and he could very 
well con-tend for a starting 
spot this year." 
Despite amassing an impres­
sive 66 total singles and dou­
bles wins. the Irish see room 
for improvement and know 
their performance must 
improve before they can com­
pete as one of the top pro­. grams in the nation. 
"I think we were expecting 
to play better," Taborga said. 
"We didn't beat aU-the teams 
like we should. Our team is 
really deep and we should be 
winning every match a lot eas­
ier than we are doing. Still. it's 
the beginning of the year, and 
I think we have a lot of pres­
sure on us, not because we are 
expected to win. but because a 
lot of us our seniors and it is 
our last chance. We really 
want it so bad that we are 
maybe getting a little tighter 
than we should." 
Contact Rachel Biber at Rachel.A.Biber.1@nd.edu. 
level. 

"We're still a little bit unset­tled with our upperclassmen in terms 1.Jf who is going to step up and take a leadership role, in terms of winning a high percentage of the matches for us in the top of the lineup," Irish assistant coach Billy Pate said. "With the senior leader­ship we have, we kind of expect that. VVith the guys we have at one, two, and three right now, we really expect them to win a high percentage. They have to be the core of the team. There is some pressure on them of course, and there is some high expectations, but they know that goes along with 
singles. filling in at No. 4 and No. "We're still a little bit 6 singles 
unsettled with our
respectively, 

Haddock­upperclassmen in terms 
Morales and ofwho is going to step up Laflin each 
and take a leaders}?ip
surrendered 

role, in_ terms ofwinning
only a meager 2 sets to his a high percentage of the opponents. 
matches for us. " 
At No. 5 sin­gles, sopho­more Matt Billy Pate Scott only lost assistant coach one match for the Irish, falling to 
it.,, The Irish also had bright spots in the dou­bles catego­ry, with 34th-ranked Smith and Taborga teaming up to finish the tournament with a 3-1 mark at the No. 1 posi­tion, and the duo of Talarico and 
Haddock-Morales wrapped up
Indiana State's Lovre 
doubles play with a 2-1 record
Brajkovic in a tight third set 
at No. 2. Knowing that crafting
tiebreaker, while Smith fin-· 
the best doubles teams is
ished the weekend at No. 2 
imperative to ensuring Irish
singles with losses to only 
success this season, head
Purdue and Indiana State. 
coach Bob Bayliss and Pate
Senior Aaron Talarico record­
used the weekend's doubles
ed an even 3-3 singles record 
competition to find the best
at No. 3 singles, with his three 
combination.

losses coming at the hands of 
"This a good time to kind of
William & Mary, Harvard and 
fiddle around with [doubles]."
Ball State. 

Pate said. "You never know
With seniors Taborga, 
what might click with doubles
Smith, Talarico, and Laflin 
combinations. but we have to
making up the bulk of the Irish 
find three teams -the best
lineup, the coaching staff is 
teams -we can put out there.
waiting for someone to step up 
We have five or six teams that
and take the team to the next 




-~--------------------------------; 
page 19 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, October l, 2001 
ND WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY
MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish reserves take Irish runners place fourth 


win over weekend 
By KATIE HUGHES 
Sports Writer 

running in a pack, but Sean 
It was the last time for an

By KATIE HUGHES 
Zanderson surged ahead later 
easy meet. The Irish took fourth 

Spurts \'V'riter 
in the race as two Western 
place in Saturday's Central

Michigan runners took the 
Collegiates, held in Kalamazoo,

The test this weekend was lead. Keane started to reel in 
Mich. in the last of their early­

depth -and the Irish have the group that had gotten away 
season meets before they face

plenty of it. with two miles to go in the 
the solid competition of the best 

Notre Dame took the team race, and surged to a second­
cross countn' conference in the 

title at the Central Collegiate place finish for the Irish, two 
nation at the Notre Dame

Championships in Kalamazoo, seconds behind individual 
Invitational.

Mich., Saturday, starting a dif­champion Tim M_orehouse from 
Scoring 95 points, Notre

forcnt lineup of runners who Western Michigan. Senior Scan 
Dame finished behind Ohio

could all be possible con­Zanderson and sophomore 
University. Western Michigan,

tenders for varsity spots in Kevin Somok came in close 
and Eastern Michigan, and

upcoming meets. The meet behind, finishing in third and 
ahead of Detroit Mercy. 

allowed the less experienced fourth place. 
Most of the team's top run­

runners to get in some colle­Freshman Ryan Johnson in 
ners rested over the weekend,

giate experience. sixth, junior Nathan Shay in 
giving the "B" team a chance to

"When we have a team this seventh, sophomore Kevin 
show that they are capable of

deep, it's good to have a meet Avenius in ninth and freshman 
moving into varsity spots.

to go to, to have a chance to Eric Morrison in 10th rounded 
Junior Jen Ilandlcv, who took

race," said junior John Keane. out the top 10 and the close 
first place in the National

The team took the title with­following second pack for the 
Catholic Championships, and 

out running its consistent top Irish. Senior Tom Lennon took 
freshman Lauren King took a

five, including three All­13th place. . 
break from competition

Americans. Ryan Shay, who The No. 4 Irish will return to 
Saturday. Megan Johnson, who

became the first runner to win full strength in next weekend's 
-was third at the National

the National Catholic Notre Dame Invitational. fol­
Catholic Championships and

Invitational four years in a row lowed by the pre-national meet 
freshman Christi Arnerich also

with his victory last week, did on Oct. 13 in Greenville, South 
sat out this weekend. 

not run Saturday. Todd Carolina. 
"There are only so many

Mobley, who took the title at Head coach Joe Piane will 
races on schedule to prove you

the Valparaiso Invitatio nal have to decide this week how 
belong in top five," said head

Sept. 7 was absent from com­the results of the Central 
coach Tim Connely. 

petition, and seniors Pat Collegiate meet will influence 
Senior captain Hilary Burn,

Conway and Marc Striowski who will run as the season 
consistently a top-eight runner

also did not run. Sophomores shifts into a higher gear in the 
for the starting team, finished

David Alber, Brian Kerwin, and hunt for the first national 
first on the team in 11th place, 

Mario Bird were also held out championship since 1957. 
hanging on to the front pack in 

of the meet. "A lot of guys had great sum­
the five-team field. 

"There's no comparison to mers and are way ahead of 
"Hilary competed very well,"

how this team would have per­where they were last year," 
Connelly said. "With 1,000 to

formed last year compared to Keane said. "And a lot of fresh-1 
go, she could have been third,

this year," said Keane. "We men are running really well." 
tenth, or eleventh. Hilary

couldn't have been missing 
knows she's a senior and there

eight guys and scored 22 
won't be too many more

Contact Katie Hughes at
points, even in a small meet." 
chances. She tried to take

khughes@nd.edu.
The team started the race 
Author Signing 
Meet author 
Philip Yancey 
Mon day 
October 1st 
7:00 pm 
·t1 ;Sifrvi vc 
' · ..wtfie Chi 

,n the • 
Hammes Notre Dame Boo/(store 
HAMMES 

NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: &31-&316 • www.ndbook,tore.,om 

advantage of it and other peo­
ple didn't." 
Sophomores Megan Peterson 
and Rachel Endress placed 
18th and 21st in the meet, 
rounding out the top three for 
the Irish. 
"A few others improved a 
lot," Connelly said. "Keri 
McCarthy and Melissa Webb, 
who was primarily an 800 run­
ner, ran well. She's learning 
how to race." 
Though the team may have 
fallen short of their high early 
season expectations, a different 
team will take the line next 
weekend, including freshman 
Lauren King. 
"It will be good to have Lauren King in the picture, so we can see how good we are." · Burn said. "We have lots of tal­ent and we expect great things 
out of the team." 
"Most who ran [in Saturday's 
meet] ran faster than the week before," Connelly said. "They just didn't compete as well as I had hoped." 
The Irish will return to full strength in next weekend's Notre Dame Invitational. 
"The team is looking to make their mark on the national scene this weekend," Burn said. "In the upcoming meets we'll start to earn points toward qualifying for nationals." 
"The next two weeks are very important," Connelly said. "We're going to run our best seven in the blue division, and we'll run a team in the gold division so that some of the people who raced on Saturday will get the opportunity to race again in another team situa­tion." 
Contact Katie Hughes at khughes@nd.edu. 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, October 1, 2001 
SMC SOCCER 
Britons end Belles' winning streak at three 
By LINDSAY MOLLAN Sports Writer 
The winning streak is over. 
Nevertheless the Belles left the soccer field confident with their performance Sunday, despite a 4-1 loss to Albion. 
"[Albion] capitalized on a few of our mistakes but I feel that the score doesn't reflect how we played." said co-captain Lynn Tavlor. 
Albion, which is currently ranked No. 25 nationally, is undefeated so far this season with an overall record of 10-0. The Belles picked up their first win last Sunday with a victory against Rose-Hulman. 
Despite the 4-1 loss, the Belles played the Britons Albion evenly for the majority of the game. ln the first half, the 13clles had eleven shots on goal compared to the Britons' seven shots. At half­time, however, Albion still led 3­1, with freshman Molly McCavitt scoring the Belles' only goal of the game. . 
During the second half, the Belles defense improved. Freshman goalie Maureen MacDonald blocked 12 shots on goal, allowing only one shot to slip by on a penalty kick 18 min­utes into the second half. The Belles offense, however, was much quieter during the second half getting a shot on goal only five times. 
The last time the Belles took on a top-ranked team, they lost 9-1. The close score on Sunday, thMefore, left the Helles satisfied with th9 way they played. 
"We played with more confi­den co," said freshman Jen Concannon. "We gave it our all and showed that we can play with anyone in our conference." 
Sunday's game against Albion marked tho halfway point in the season for Belles soccer. They will have a chance to play Albion. as well as the rest of the MIAA. again, an opportunity· which the Belles look forward to. 
"We're really excited to play all of these teams again," said junior captain Heather Muth. "We can't wait for revenge." 
The Belles will have two days to rest and prepare for their sec­ond half of the season before going to Adrian College on Wednesday. The game against Adrian will bii the first in a series of four away games for a Belles team that has played all of its conference matches at home this season. 
The Belles, now 3-6, are look­ing to continue to improve over the season. 
''I'm happy with our perfor­mance," said coach Bobby Johnston. "We're playing hard and improving each game." 
Contact Lindsay Mollan at moll136l@saintmarys.edu. 


Monday, October 1, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
MEN'S SOCCER
HOCKEY 
Irish drop overtime 
Scrimmage ends in shootout 
By MATT ORENCHUK 
Sports Writer 
Two 21-minute periods and a five-chance shootout were not enough to decide the Notre Dame hockey Blue Gold game Sunday afternoon. 
Finally, with the teams tied at five apiece in the first round of a s u d d e n d e a t h shootout, freshman Cory McLean was able to put one past Blue goalie Tony Zasowski to give the Gold a 6-5 win. 
The game, played to raise money for the Coaches· Foundation, raised $1,250 for cancer research. Each player played the game for someone they knew who had cancer. 
Play was slow at the begin­ning, with both the Blue and Gold teams getting bogged down in the offensive zone. That trend didn't last for long, especially with a slight rule change made by the Notre Dame coaches. 
To make the game more interesting for the fans, there were no penalties assessed. Instead, when a player commit­ted a penalty, the opposing team was awarded a penalty shot. 
The first goal of the game came on a penalty shot by senior David Inman for the Blue squad 7:45 into the first period. Inman was able to get the puck past Gold goalie Jeremiah 


CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL 
CONCERNS 
CHICAGO: 

City of HOPE? 
Come and see... 
Social Concerns Seminar Theology 368 
In Chicago, January 8-13,2002 
1( 

ROBINSON COMMUNITY LEARNING 
CENTER 

Kimento for the score. 
The Blue team struck again with 10:34 left in the period, this time with freshman Alex Lalonde doing the damage. Gold added a goal of their own from a penalty shot goal by Cory McLean. 
Midway through the period 
Zasowski was taken out and 
Morgan Cey put into the game 
for the Blue squad. 
Gold added another penalty 
shot goal with 3:09 left in the 
first to knot the game at 2 
apiece. 
The end of the first period 
saw both squads getting a little 
ragged, and this resulted in a 
lot of penalties. Fortunately, the goalies kept the score low by stoning most of the penalty opportunities. 
"All of the goalies 
Paul Harris put the Gold up 

match to Seton Hall 
"The loss was unfortu­pass from
The second period ended with 

take Big East 
teammate 

rival Seton nate, but it was not a
the score tied at four. The game 
A l i m 
was then decided by a shootout. 

Hall into over­step back for us. " Ibragimov
Each side got penalty shot 

time in New 
and beat
chances, and the team with the 

. Jersey on 
Sawyer

Griffin Howard
most goals at the end wins. 

Saturday. 
from six
Rob Globke 

Unfortunately, Irish co-captain 
yards out. 
with a goal past Zasowski. Six minutes later Gold struck again, this time with freshman Brad Wanchulak putting the puck in to give Gold a 4-2 lead. 
As time ticked down, it appeared that the Gold squad would clamp down defensively and protect their two-goal lead. Then with 4:49 left in the sec­ond period, freshman Ryan Mundt closed the gap with a goal. The Blue team would then tie it at four with exactly one minute left in the period on a goal by Captain Evan Nielsen. 

played pretty -. "We have some good Blue's second 
broke the 
scoreless tie
well," Irish instinctive players, and I chance to put 
head coach them ahead 5­
early in sudden death to steal
saw some good things out
Dave Poulin 4. Then John 
a 1-0 overtime victory from 
said. "In the there." Wroblewski's 
the Irish. 
end of the goal tied it up 
"We were under a lot of 
first period on the Gold's 
pressure from their offense in
Dave Poulin 
we looked fourth try. 
the first half," fifth year senior
head coach

ragged. We Since they scored on 
the Pirates 
need more discipline. To be a good team in the [CCHA] we are going to have to not make a lot of penalties." 
In the second period, the teams switched up goalies. During the break Cey was switched to the Gold squad. Zasowski then reclaimed the Blue goal, and Kimento took a rest. 
The second period saw both the Blue and Gold teams play with discipline, as both sides worked to cut out the penalties. 
3:20 into the second period, were still tied 
at five, the teams went to a sudden death shootout. Tom Galvin couldn't score for Blue, but Cory McLean netted his chance for Gold to end the game. 
Overall, Poulin was pleased with the effort. 
"The pace was very good out there," Poulin said. "We have some good instinctive players, and I saw some good things out there." 
Contact Matt Orenchuk at 
morenchu@nds.eclu. 

Irish freshman goalie Chris Sawyer shined for the Irish in defeat, recording a personal best with seven saves in the game. . 
However, it was the final shot Sawyer faced, a shot from Seton Hall forward Phil Swcnda 6:45 into overtime, that sealed the victory for the Pirates. 
Swenda 
received a 

By BRYAN KRONK 
Sports Writer 
The good news for the Notre Dame men's soccer team in its game against Seton Hall on Saturday ,vas that its defense once again held its opponents scoreless for 90 minutes. 
The bad news for the Irish is, so did the Pirates' defense. The Irish were able to 
'That goal came very early in the overtime," Sawyer comment­ed. "Their forward got the ball and brought it up, and our defender was on him. He got loose somehow and slid the ball into the corner of the net." 
The Irish have yet to win an overtime contest this season. Notre Dame's other overtime loss, a 3-2 defeat, came at the hands of the Furman Paladins on Sept. 7. 
Notre Dame now enters a crucial part of its schedule. The Irish face eight opponents in the month of October, with five games on the road and six coming against Big East oppo­nents. 
"The loss was unfortunate, but it was not a step back for us,:' Howard said. "These next weeks coming up are crucial, and we need to make sure we get started off right against Georgetown in order to gain some momentum." 
The Irish return to Big East action Friday night, when they kickoff against the Georgetown Hoyas at Alumni Field at 7 :30 p.rn. 
Contact Bryan Kronk at bkronk@nd.edu. 
Griffin Howard said. "In the second half, I thought we real­ly stepped up our play though. We were very unfortunate to have lost that goal in overtime after playing so well." 
With the loss, Notre Dame dropped to 3-4 on the season overall, and fell to 1-2 in the Big East. 
Notre Dame currently stands in a tie for seventh in the Big East, with seven conference games remaining. Only the top eight teams qualify for the conference postseason tourna­ment. 
In their four losses thus far, the Irish have scored a com­
bined total of two goals, while
Organizing For Justice on 
in the three wins, the Irish offense has scored 11 times. 
the Streets of Chicago! 
"We realize that we need to score to win, but we know the goals will come," Howard said. "Our forwards are playing 
¦ Learn how the Church is 
really well, and as long as we stay on track and do what we
Responding to Poverty and 
have to do we are confident
Injustice 
that our goal scorers will put the ball in the net." 
¦ Meet the organizers, 
pastors, lay leaders, & Other Advocates of the poor 
¦ Learn about key issues affecting communities: 
o 
Violence 

o 
Housing 

o 
diversity 


• Explore Summer & Post Graduate Opportunities 
Applications available at: 
• the Center for Social Concerns 
¦ Robinson Community Learning Center 
Application deadline; Monday, October 8, noon 
For more information, please Contact Jay Caponigro at the RCLC 631-9423 


Page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, October 1, 2001 
SMC GOLF 

Season ends with disappointing third 

competition T h a t
"It was disappointing. We
Fridav until s 1"i g h t the co'n.clus ion had the home course inconsisten­Saturday. cy seemed
advantage, we knew the
"It was dis­to be the appointing," course." problem for head coach all of the 
Theresa Theresa Pekarek Belles over 
Pekarek said. the week­
head coach
"We had the end. Each home cnurse of the top advantage. we four finish­knew the course, we knew ers had a solid game one day, how to play it." but seemed to fall short the 
But the tournament doesn't other. spell the end for the team. "The team didn't put it With only two graduating together either day," Pekarek seniors, the Belles will use this said. "It was that a couple of weekend's disappointing finish them didn't play well on to rocket them ahead next Friday and then a couple of season. them didn't play well on 
"Next year we'll be more of Saturday." a threat having experience With a winning margin of with the young talent we three, that inconsistency already have," junior Liz played a major role, a role Hanlon said. that is usually not an issue for 
At the end of Friday's play, the generally solid team. Of the Belles were behind tour­the four scorers for Saint nament leader Albion by only Mary's. only two placed in the five strokes. It looked like it top ten overall. At all but one would be a shoot-off between of the other MIAA tourna­the Belles and the Britons on ments held this year, all four 
Saturday, but the Flying Dutch Saint Mary's scorers have of Hope were not to be placed in the top 10. grounded. They came back But high scores did not end from a 20-stroke deficit to win with Saint Mary's. the tournament and beat the Tournament winner Courtney Belles by only three strokes. Rheinhardt from Alma scored finishing with a team total of a weekend total of 161, finish­715, while the Belles had a ing with an 80 and 81 Friday team total of 718. Albion fin­and Saturday respectively. ished a close second with 716 Rheinhardt had been bringing strokes. home consistent scores in the 
Atria salon 289-5080 
Please use the Special Savings invitation and get to know us. You'll be pleased with the quality and service we provide, and we will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. 
We hope to see you soon. 
Not valid for spiral perms, long or tinted hair add ?10. No other discounts apply. Open some evenings. ATRIA SALON reserves the right to refuse service to any client whose hair condition is unsuitable. Valid with the following stylists only: Sarah, Vicki, Karol, Nechole, & Mirance 
-NEW (UENTS ONLY-
Must be presented to Reception isl before services are performeci (Certain restrictions apply) 13 5 7 N. Ironwood Dr. Offer Expires 10/10/2001 
low 7O's the rest of this sea­son. Quick greens may have been the problem for all the teams competing. 
"The course was playing really tough," Pekarek said. "And the main reason its play­ing really tough is the greens are putting really fast. There were no incredible scores." 
Inexperience added another handicap for the Belles. Keleher is a three-year veter­an but she has young team behind her. Stefanie Simmerman, who has led the team most of the season. is 011ly a freshman, as is Julia Adams. Hanlon is a sopho­more and Molly Lee, another of the Belles top finishers. is a junior 
Simmerman finished the weekend with a 179, shooting 91 on Friday and 88 on Saturday. Hanlon, Lee anti Adams all finished with 185 for the weekend. Hanlon shot an 88 on Friday and an 97 on Saturday, Lee shot 91 and 94 respectively and Adams shot a 93 and 92. 
Next season Pekarek is look­ing to work out the problems inexperience brings with it and bring home a victory. 
"We have a young team and this is only going to help us." she said. "We learned a lot from this weekend and got some more experience under our belts. We're going to be that much more experienced next year and that much more of a threat." 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 
Take the 

URBAN PLUNOt... 
an up now! 
if'''· 

7'//4~~)~--~':l..~.J:.l~~'..L!J,'3'~~~~~::::~~~is.[~t 
A 48-HOUR IMMERSION EXPERIENCE INTO URBAN COMMUNITIES THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY. STUDENTS MEET LOCAL INDIVIDUALS, WORK WITH AGENCIES, VOLUNTEER FOR PARISHES AND WITNESS THE DAILY ENVIRONMENT OF URBAN AREAS IN THE UNITED STATES. 
WHERE? WHEN? In nearly fifty (50!) U.S. Cities The week of January 3-10 If you live near a city -Specific 48 hour period YOU can take the plunge! Set by each Site. 
INTERESTED? NEED TO KNOW MORE? 
COME TO AN INFORMATION SESSION! WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 2, 5:00 PM AT THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Questions? Contact Rebecca Pettit 63l-9970/Pettit.3@nd.edu at the CSC Registration Fom1s available at the Center for Social Concerns 


Albany .i.Rlbuquerque.Boston.Buffalo.i.Chicago,1,Clncinnati.i.Cleueland 
Co lumbus,1. DalIas.,. D enu er,1. Des Molnes,.. Detro i 1,.. G randRapids.i. Hono I ulu 
Houston,1,Louisuille,1,lndianapolis,.i.Mobile.i.NelllYork.i.Dakland,1,Phlladelphia Pho eniH,..Plt tsburgh,i.S t.Pe tenbur9,1,S outhBend,.i. SanRn tonio San Diego.Tacoma...washlngtonD.C••ANO MOREi 
By KATIE McVOY 
Assoaare Sports Editor 

It wrrs a bittersweet finish fur the Saint Mary's golf team this weekend. After starting off the snason with a first place finish in the opening MIAA tournament, the Belles' third place finish in the M[~\ Championships at their own course left them feeling unset­tled. 
The Belles lost the champi­onship by only three strokes, falling to Hope in first place and Albion in second place. The teams traded leads from the onset of 
"I think that it was a close match and anyone could have placed in the top three," Hanlon said. "We all went out thNe and played our hardest and that's how it fell." 
The young talent on the Saint Mary's team took a back seat to veteran Megan Keleher for the first time this season. Keleher led the Belles on Friday, shooting a team low 
83. Saturday Keleher was less satisfied with her 91-stroke performance. 
"I was happy with my per­formance on Friday," she said. "But on Saturday I could have 
. played a lit­tle better." 

Monday, October 1, 2001 
FOURTH AND INCHES 

FOXTROT 
HEY, J.A.SoN­WHAT ARE UM, 'foV DotN<:, HoMEwoRIC LATER ToDAY? PRo8A8LY. 
' 
WHY? 

CROSSWORD 
I WAS lH1Nlc1N<=, r COULO TAkE OFF FRoM WoRK A 
LtTTLE EARLY ANO '!'00 ANO 
I CouLD Go HIT SOME GOLF 
BALLS. You kNoW, SoRT of' 
A LITTL£ FATHER•SoN 
80N01N& THINe. 
~ GOLF?? 
k--~,_f 
Wt-lADD'Y.A. SAY? SEE You AFTER SCHOOL? 
l 
" 
~  ~  
.~ ~  "' ~  r. ~  

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jim Henson, Phil Hartman, Jim McKay, Sheila MacRae, Joseph Kennedy II 
Happy Birthday: Thirsty for knowledge and searching for truth, you' re tl'aveling down your own path. You are looking for a lifestyle that suits your personali­ty, instead of being stuck in a world that is too conservative for you. You must find the strength to overcome your fears and move on to better things. Your reluctance to let go of what you have is holding you back Your numbers: 9, 14, 26, 29, 33,49 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Take positive action and sign up for seminars that will expand your business awareness. You need more information if you ~ to start your own business. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Think about·attending a cultural community event or taking up an interesting pastime. You will be happiest if you are learning with­out overspending. Set a budget and stick to it. 00000 
GEMINI !May 21-June 20): 
Financial opportunities are pres­ent. Don't lie nesitant to travel if it means that you might dose a deal or meet someone who can help 

50 Ill will you aspire to your ambition. 
EUGENIA LAST 
can expect a pat on the back for your accomplishments. 000 VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 

-
Socialize with your peers. You will have fun and learn interest­ing information that will prove useful later in the week. Someone you least expect will be helpful. 
00000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Go out with a friend. You may receive some good advice about your personal problems. You've ~ avoiding situations that will only worsen if you don't attend to them. 00 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
Consider a pleasurable activity. You owe yourself some rest and relaxation. This is a great day to talk to friends and to catch up on correspondence. 0000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't let a partner hold you back. Opportunities to make moves or money are present, but you must be ready to face up to anyone who tries to lead you in the oppo­site direction 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
Secret affairs lead to deception. Be honest with yourself before becoming involved with someone who is likely to lead you on. You'll need a good friend to lean 
on.00 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 2Q..Feb. 18): 
There will be plenty of activities all around. Friends are likely to drop by unexpectedly. If you're rurious about someone from your past, give him or her a call. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
You can rely on your to offer the support you're looking for. How­ever, a family member may be less than accommodating if you try to get him or her to pitch in. 
0000 

56 Way off 58 Scotia 59 Corp. 
conglomerate 60 Fish in streams 61 Field yield 62 Agent's amount 63_decorps 64 Daly of "Judging 
Amy" 
DOWN 
1 "I have good authority" 2 Nothin' 3 Hoof sound 4 Circus performer 
5 Mugging retaflators, maybe 
6 Acrylic fiber 7 Controlling interests? 8 Early afternoon 
9 Food item · 
named for an English earl 10 Inlet 
ACROSS 1 Peruvian of old 5 Moody 
11 Pinup's leg 14 Powder base 15 Gladiatorial sites 16 Prefix with cycle 17 Landfill's 
emanation 18 Whom a lawyer 
represents 19 Hostej 20 Pastry named 
for a French emperor 22 Double flat? 24 Hayloft sites 25 Cry out 26 School papers 29 La Guardia or 
LAX 
32 Trot and canter 33 Flippant 
35 "_Te Ching" 
36 Where the Azores are: · 
Abbr. 
37 Sleeping place on a train 38 Dictator Amin 39 ''What a dope!" 40 Texas shrine, with "the" 41 Prison-related 43 Provider of "a word" on TV 
45 Modern document senders 
46 "Whatcha ?" 47 Golf or polo 49 Aries, 
astrologically 51 Sweater named for an English earl 55 Gangster's gun 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
H I T I T O , 
p ~...;...,~+,.;.~ 11 Apparatus p named for a French physician -,-+-+-~ 12 Actress Bancroft i.;,;.i....+-~...i 13 Coquette 
~.,,,.+,,,+,.+,;,-1 21 Places 23 Domino dot 26 "Good grief!" 27 Began to take 
_...--J,.,;A... notice _...-'-s""' 28 Figure named ""'-4~-,-+=+-ee+,,,,+.,.+,,,.i for a French A T government R E P A A T E N E W S official 
The Observer . TODAY page 23 

30 Traffic cop's tool 
31 Slaves away 33 Bum slightly 34 Shirt part 37 Apparel named 
for an American feminist 40 Ancient fertility goddess 41 Cowboy's friend 42 Gone forever 
airer 
RYAN

TOM KEELEY 
BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNINGHAM 

BILLAMEND 
J'ASoN Fox, ARE 'YOU TRYll,CC:, To GET AFTE.RNooN DEliNT10N~.' 
-~-\ "v 
~~~ 
-~­
• I 


000
45 "Hansel and 52 Bloody 
CANCER (June 21-July 22}: 
Gretel" locale 53 Bard of_ 

Favorable changes regarding 

47 Scrub hard 54 Scruff either business or personal part­nerships are evident. You must
48 Singer Page 57 Item in a bucket 
act on your impulses and make a decision quick! y. If you overeat, you will put on the pounds. 000

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You 
are available by touch-tone phone: 
need to get out and challenge
1·900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute}. 
yourself. Your ability to achieve 
will be second to none, and you 

Annual subscriptions are available for the 
best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
Birthday Baby: You are hard-working. determined and eager to get to 
years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

the bottom of things. You are a contributor and an achiever. You are hard to keep up with and easy to admire and respect. (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, 
eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
© 2001 Universal Press Syndicate 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
-------------~-----------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in yom· home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 
Name ---------------------­
Address------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
I 
_____J I 
r--------------------------------­
Campus Sports OTHE Campus Sports
BSERVER 

. SMC Golf, p. 22 
. ND Cross Country, p. 19 
. 
Men's Soccer, p. 21 . SMC Hall of Fame, p. 18 

. 
Hockey, p. 21 . ND Golf, p. 15 

. 
SMC Soccer, p. 20 . Women's lnterhall, p. 15


PORTS 
Monday, October 2, 2001 

MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish swing into action 
. Irish open season with 66 wins at invite 
By RACHEL BIBER 
Sports Writer 
After playing a combined total of 106 singles and dou­bles matches at this week­end's Tom Fallon Invitational, the Irish aren't joking when they say they are back in the swing of things. 
-
Matching up against Ball State, Harvard, Indiana State, Michigan, Purdue and William & Mary, the Notre Dame men's tennis team racked up a total of 66 wins to 40 losses 
during the four-day event at which no team scores were recorded. 
In the Irish season debut, the squad sported a new look, as 76th-ranked senior Javier Taborga filled in the No. 1 sin­gles spot, while 38th-ranked senior and captain Casey Smith slid to the No. 2 position after playing in the top posi­tion last year. Taborga fin­ished the weekend 3-3 in sin­gles play, but could just as easily have been 6-0, as all three losses resulted from third set tiebreakers. 
Following a solid 6-2, 6-3, victory of Ball State's Jason Pressel on Saturday, Taborga commented on his move to No. 1, and knows his play, rather than his position, will dictate his results. 
"I didn't feel the pressure that much ... because I knew that if I make my shots I could win at n um her one, two, or 
see TENNIS/page 18 


ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Sarkesian leads Irish pair of wins 
By JOE LICANDRO 
Sports Writers 
Mia Sarkesian is on a roll. After scoring the game-win­ning goal against No. 3 Nebraska Tuesday night, she dominated midfield Friday night and had an assist in the Irish's 4-0 goal against the University of_ Pittsburgh. Sunday she wrapped up a solid week of play with on 
overtime goal to give Notre Dame a 2-1 win against the University of West Virginia. 
''I'm definitely happy with the way I've been playing recently, but I'm even more happy with the way the team has played over these last 10 days," Sarkesian said. "To win five games in 10 days is quite an accomplishment." 
In what has become an all too-familiar story for Notre Dame this season, the Irish 
were unable to protect a 1-0 lead in the second half of Sunday's game and were forced into overtime. Once again, the Irish started the game with a flat offense, rely­ing upon their defense to keep them in the game. With heavy foul calls, the defense for both teams disrupted their opponents' offensive game plans. Irish defenders Lindsey Jones. Vanessa Pruzinsky, Monica Gonzales and Candace Chapman shut down last year's Big East offensive player of the year Katie Barnes, holding her scoreless in the first half. 

The Irish's best chances to score came in the final 10 minutes of the first half on successive scoring opportuni­ties by forwards Amy Warner and Amanda Guertin. But their runs were stopped cold by the West Virginia defense. 
see SOCCER/page 14 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
Irish serve up 
•
WlllS 
By SUSAN CARPENTER 
Sports Writer 
There was no clear most valuable player for the Irish volleyball team Saturday, as team play propelled them to two weekend victories over the Hokics of Virginia Tech and Georgetown Hoyas. 
Notre Dame handily defeated the llokies in three sets, win­ning 30-25, 30-16 and 30-28. The Georgetown defeat came in four sets, the Irish dropping the first match 28-30, then rallying to come back 30-27, 30-25 and 30-22. 
Georgetown proved to be a tough challenge for Notre Dame on Sunday that kept the fans on their feet. Scoring went back and forth as the !Ioyas took the lead, or the Irish hus­tled to get a point by chasing after a ball impossibly out of play. 

The Irish struggled to find a rhythm early in the match, struggling with hitting errors. They were unable to rally from behind and dropped the first game to Georgetown. This was a blow to the Irish whose sea­son goal for has been to win game one of each contest to bring the swing of' momentum in their favor. 
"We let them control the tempo of the game instead of us controlling [the game] from our side of the court," .said Bomhack. 
After dropping game one, Notre Dame had to regain its composure and come out strong for game two. Going almost point for point, an ace by Alvarete notched the Irish ahead 28-27. At game point, a decisive kill by Kristy Kreher put the game away and placed Notre Dame on even ground with Georgetown again. 
Game three developed simi­larly with the two teams bat­tling for the lead. Emily Loomis posted a kill to tie the Irish up with the Iloyas at 22. With Alderete's solid serving and a block by Kreher and Fletcher. the Irish pulled farther away. 
Taking game three, Notre Dame had one more game to go and a wave of momentum on its side. 
"We blocked really well as a team in games two and three," said senior Malinda Goralski. 
see VOLLEYBALL/page 14 

. SMC Volleyball vs. Calvin, Friday, 7 pm. 
OBSERVER
. ND, SMC Swimming, ND Relays, Friday, 6:30 p.m.
SPORTS 
online classifieds 
. ND Cross Country, ND Invitational, Friday, 4:15 p.m.AT AGLANCE . Men's Soccer vs. Georgetown, Friday, 7:30 p.m. http://www.nd.edu/~observer 








