
Mourning a music legend 
Tuesday
RAINY 
George Harrison, song,.,vriter and guitarist for the Beatles, dies leaving fans with a long list of musical moments. 
DECEMBER 4,
HIGH 57° 
Scene . page 11 
2001
LOW 46° 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 61 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


Holy Cross may offer bachelor's degrees 

• College looks into becoming four­year institution 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES 
News Writer 
Holy Cross College could expand its degree programs to offer four-year bachelor's degrees in the near future, according to proposals currently being developed at the College. 
Pending accreditation from the North Central Association of Colleges and 

alums and students who say that they would love to stay for four years," Mangan said. 
The college considered imple­menting a bachelor's degree program last year and has been looking into it this academic year. which is also the College's 35th anniversary celebration. 
Last week, a general informa­tion meeting was held at Holy Cross regarding the academic expansion of the school. Marcum said that administra­tors expressed that students would be informed of the col­lege's decision of whether or not it is adopting the program in 
January or
Schools. Holy 

"Many times we hear from February of
Cross wants to 
2002.

offer a four­alums and students who 
"A lot of 

year bachelor say that they would love to students areof arts degree 
stay for four years. " excited
in addition to 
because itthe two-year provides a
associate's 

William Mangan different 
degree it cur­

vice president of Academic Affairs atmosphere
rently offers. 
The College is in discussion stages with the association about timing and there is no firm schedule for the site visit that is necessary to become accredited. The Board of Trustees are currently creat­ing a proposal and have not announced what the time frame is for implementation, according to William Mangan. vice presi­dent of Academic Affairs. 
"One of things in the forefront of our thinking is that any bac­calaureate program cannot negatively affect out associate program and curriculum," Mangan said. 
The push for the four-year degree is also coming from alumni and students. 
"Many times we hear from 
in compari­

son to other colleges. It is small enough to be a family, yet large enough to provide opportunities," said Amelia Marcum, president of the Student Advisory Council. 
The bachelor degree program would be separate from the associate degree program. Students who receive their asso­ciate degree from Holy Cross would have to reapply in order to gain admission into the bach­elor degree program. This pro­gram would also be open to stu­dents who want to transfer from other colleges or junior colleges. 
According to Marcum, admin­istrators said at the information meeting they want to begin with 
see DEGREES/page 4 


BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Requested study day denied for next semester 
By SHANNON NELLIGAN  will begin on Tuesday, Dec. 15 as planned, and no study day  Action Coalition, requested funds from the Board of Governance to  ciency at the College. "We hope to learn how to  dents to attend such prestigious international events will greatly  
News Writer  will be added.  aid three students  make our  benefit the College community.  
"We will work on the study  and  one  faculty  "We will work on the  campus  "The students that attend  
Kristen Matha. student body vice president. updated the Board on the proposed study day  day proposal for the remainder of the year and we plan  member who are attending a Clean Production and  study day proposal Jor the remainder ofthe year."  m o r e environ­mentally  these types of conventions will bring back a Jot of important information and it will bring  
for the spring semester. It was  to  see  it  Pollution  friendly  international exposure to Saint  
reported that due to the time constraints on the proposal it is unlikely that there will be an extra study day next semester. The Board had asked the stu­ implement­ed by spring semester in the next academic  Prevention at Universities con­vention in Hermosillo, Mexico.  Kristen Matha Saint Mary's student body vice president  and to represent our club and the College at  Mary's," Nagle said. After some debate. BOG moved to grant $400 to cover the convention fee. The rest of the cost has been granted by co­ 
dent body earlier this semester  year,"  This will be the  t  h  C  sponsorship with the Center for  
to return to campus one day ear­ Matha said. Matha  first year that students are able  iuternational level with our pre­ Women's  Intercultural  
lier for the spring semester to be  to participate in the three-day  sentation," Lorenz said.  Leadership.  
able to tack on a study day before finals. The proposal was denied, and the spring semester  In other BOG news: Teresa Lorenz, a member of the Student Environmental  conference. The purpose of the 80nvention is to learn how to reduce waste and promote effi- Michelle Nagle, student body president, suggested that encouraging and helping stu- Contact Shannon Nelligan at nel12040@saintmarys.edu.  


page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Do you have character? 
Modern America, through its frank discourse into previously unmentionable topics. has found itself rrn1broilPd in a constant debate about character. WhaL is character? The seemingly rhetorical question is often left 
Pat Peters
without an answer. IJoes the President have char­acter? Who has the best 
Operations
character? Who has the strongest character'? Manager 
On a national level, these answers seem almost impossible to find. We are only privi­leged with information providf'd to us by the media and by public relations firms who earn their wages by twisting and turning words and events into scenarios of benefit to their clients. On the local level, however. we are given a much deeper insight. 
On the Notre Dame campus. for instance, who has more character? The students and fans who run Web sites degrading and even slandering a man and his family? The alumni who wear T-shirts of dissent against not only a coach but also this Gniversity'l 
Or a man. who when faced with adversity. steps up to the plate and returns focus to where it belongs -with the team he devoted the past five years of his life to, to the players he views as heroes. As Bob Davie said at Sunday's press conference "if my son Clay grows up to be anything like one of those 70 young men we took to Purdue last weekend. I will consider myself a success." This man has character. 
Imagine having your dream ripped from you less than 12 months after it had been extend­ed. Imagine even further, having experienced the triumph of victory and less than 12 hours later being told you were no longer associated with the program you've guided for most of your recent memory. Keep on imagining, how­ever. for you still have not faced the humilia­tion wrought on you and your family by incon­siderate "fans" who have gone so far as to place "for sale" signs in your front yard. This is adversitv. 
Then sta.nd up, face the cameras and gaze of a dozen or so media outlets and hold your head high. Tell the nation how proud you are of your team and how lucky you feel to have been afforded the opportunity to coach at Notre Dame. !low lucky you are. Despite the treatment you have received from its support­ers over the past few months. How lucky you are. 
Bob Davie saw and continues to see the big picture. Life is not determined by wins and losses on the football field, but by the way an individual conducts himself in society. How many men, when faced with the same situa­tion. have spoken with vengeance and anger. Quote Richard Nixon. "you won't have Nixon to kick around anymore." Instead, this man spoke with dignity and class. 
While I will agree with the fact that he is not the best coach for the program, as a Notre Dame student, I am proud to have attended a school where a great man like Bob Davie was a member of the faculty. llopefully we all can learn from him how to handle the tough situa­tions that life throws at us. 
Contact Pal Peters at ppeters@nd.edu 
The uiews expressed in the Inside Column an:' those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obserl'er. 

CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication dnd strives for the highest standards of journalism ac all rimes. We do, however. recognize th~c we will make mistakes. Ifwe have mode a n1iSl.1ke, plea,e .:om.in u, a1 631-454 I so we .:an correct our error. 
rlie Oh,crver {USPS ~99 2-4000) i, puhli,hed Monday through Friday cxcc:pt duri11g ex.1m and vacation period,. The Ob~erver is a member of rhc A\.'>-01.:ia1nl Pr..-~,. All n:pioJuuion right:,. arc rncrved. 
The Observer . INSIDE  Tuesday, December 4, 2001  
QUOTES OF THE WEEK  
"It's hard for me to hide  "J had good  "/ can't even tell you  "To have people  
my disappointment that I won't be back as the head.football coach ofNotre Dame. But with that said. I accept the decision. "  intentions to do service when I first came here to. Notre Dame, but then I got busy with other things."  how many times I've cried thinking that this was going to be my last game with these guys. I love these guys. I would cut offmy arm  driving by and beeping their hams ... to have more than 100 people who I don't even know tum out to support, this cause, it's just so affirming. "  
Bob Davie  Melissa Rauch  for these guys. "  Rachel Soltis Peace Coalition member on  
funner head football coach on being fired Sunday  senior on community service  Anthony Weaver senior football player  community peace protest  

Compiled {rum U-Wire reports 


BEYOND CAMPUS 

University denies mishandling sex-crimes 
BOSTON 
statements released by BU. Aft.er 
A lawyer for Boston University on returning from a failed search lo find Friday denied allegations made by a party in the Ashford Street area, former student Kristin Hoslonski, who Roslonski said f'rionds pulled hor into claims the University covered up her a lounge where she kissed and fon­alleged rape and failed to rollect med­dlod the student she latPr accused of' ical evidence pertinent to the case. raping her, according to a police alli­
Roslonski liled a complaint with the davit. 
U.S. Department of Education last Latrr that morning, Roslunski went week claiming RU violated her civil to the student's room where she said rights by mishandling the investiga­she first had consensual oral sex tion into her alleged rape, attempting before the other student allegedly to discredit her claims, misrepresent­raped her with a vibrator. 
"We will work closely with the
ing campus rape statistics and creat­BU police investigated, but no crim­Department of Education and
ing a hostile environment for rape inal charges were ever filed. After an victims. Her lawyers sent a demand respond appropriately to any and all investigation by the BU Ol'fice of 
letter to BU on Nov. 5 threatening to information requests because we Judicial Affairs, Hoslonski was sus­have nothing to hide," he said. 
sue the University for $1.4 million. pended until May :11, 2003. for sexual 
Roslonski told BU authorities she
BU Counsel Robert Smith said the harassment and alcohol violations. University would work with the DOE had been drinking vodka with friends ller alleged assailant was punislrnd 
on the fifth floor of Claflin llall on
and believed any possible investiga­for alcohol violations, BU spokesman
Nov. 5, 2000, according to witness
tion would back the University's case. Colin Hiley said last month. 


DARTMOUTH COLLEGE 

Student pleads guilty to professor's death 
James Parker, one of the two teenagers charged in the murders of two Dartmouth College professors. will plead guilty to accomplice to second degree murder in the death of Susanne Zantop. thn New Hampshire attorney general's office announced earlier Monday afternoon. The parties have reached an agreement and a plea hearing has been scheduled before the Grafton County Superior Court on Friday, Dec. 7 at 9 
a.m. "We have reached an agreement with the state of New Hampshire which resolves the case against Jimmy," Parker, lawyer for Cathy Green said in a statement. "Jimmy has made lhe decision to accept responsibility for his actions. and is hopeful that his plea will enable his family and that of the Zantops lo begin the healing process. He is now 17, and will pay a very heavy price for his role in this tragedy." On Friday, the state is expected to present the full terms of the agreement, which would include a proposrid sentence; the agreement still has to be approved by a judge. 

HARVARD UNIVERSITY 
Family of missing professor hires PI 
While police have emphasized tlrn possibility that 
missing Harvard University professor Don Wiley com­mitted suicide, Wilny's l'amily members said Saturday that investigators lrnve told tl111m there is no evidPnce besides his rental car -found abandoned on a bridge -to support that tlrnory. "l hate that suiride keeps getting brought up as thn possibility rather than one ol' many," Wiley's sister-in-law, Susan Wiley, said in hnr home Saturday. "I just don't think he committPd sui­cide." Wiley, Lonb Prol'essor or Biophysics and Biochemistry. was last ser,n at midnight Nov. 15 at. tlrn banqur,t for a scientific meeting in Memphis. Then' were no signs of foul play when his car was found on thn Hernando de Soto Bridgo -over tlw Mississippi Hivr,r -four hours later. Memphis Police Departnwnt · (Ml'D) Lt. Richard True, the department's spok11sper­son for the Wiley case, said last week that based on past cases with similar evidence, "indications arP {Wiley] parked the car on the bridge and took his own 
lif'e." 


LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

Accu'h-'ealher® forecnsl for t..layti111e conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon.Tuesday, Dec. 4. 
· · zones for the day 
'1·,..,#,.,/,,.:__,___,.,...-....... I 
I
I, 
. I -. ­

Wedne~day ( \: 
, 40si 60s 605
~~H 
, \ 70s
Thursd~y 
70s \ ( ~,/" 

''\ U~s ~ 80s
Friday i ~ ~~ w 
70•--,'i;:"\_ 
809~"'),.)

Saturd~y ~ ......... ........ 
, ,. .,. "'v~ @ 2001 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY \ Preu1m1: 
® © D D D D D D 
High LOW $hOWIH8 Rain T-storms Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy
Sunday ,.~ . /'l.9 
\l,a .a\SSOCl:i/ed Pt8Sli 
~•.,.,....,f'.. ~ "•-..,/'.. ~\,//' 

Atlanta 70 45 Las Vegas 50 36 Portland 43 36 
Balt,more 61 36 Memphis 72 52 Sacramento 50 37 
Boston 54 39 Milwaukee 52 45 St. LOUIS 68 54
QQ.~4-Q.Q. ~,u 
Chicago 57 46 New York 61 43 Tampa 81 63
Shawers T-storms Ram Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Houston 77 61 Philadelphia 61 39 Washington DC 63 43
Via Assoc,aisd Press Gr.aphicsNet 

----· ---·---------------------------­
Tuesday, December 4, 2001 The Observer . NEWS page 3 


Bush warns public to stay alert during war 
threats. abroad. 
Associated P re.ss 
Homeland Security Director "The convergence of informa­Tom Ridge, standing in for Bush tion suggests, ladies and gentle­WASHINGTON to announce the third govern­men of America, you know,
President Bush urged 
ment alert since the Sept. 11 sui­we're at war, be on alert," Ridge Americans on Monday to return cide hijackings, said the infor­told reporters in the Whiteto a high state of alert for holi­
nors  in  a  conference  call  
Monday.  
The  FBI  put  18,000  law  
enforcement  

day season terrorist strikes after mation does not point to a spe­House briefing room. 
U.S. intelligence officials report­cific target or type of attack, "Now is not the time to back ed an increase in credible either in the United States or off," Ridge said, echoing a warn-





ing he issued the nation's gover­
agencies "on the highest alert" because of threats culled f r o m intelli­

g c n c e Bush 
sources across the globe, he said. 
The Bush administration issued its first alert Oct 11, followed by a one-week advi­sory Oct. 29. Ever since, Ridge, the president and Attorney General John Ashcroft have warned Americans to remain vigilant. 
In the last several days, intelligence and law enforce­ment officials reported increased threats. A U.S. offi­cial, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the threat comes from people with links to al-Qaida, the terrorist net­work headed by Osama bin Laden and suspected in the Sept. 11 attacks that killed ahnost 3,500. 
The threat is not tied to the weekend attacks and retalia­tion in Israel and may not be a direct response to events in Afghanistan, as al-Qaida is known to plan attacks far in advance, the official said. 
"The sources are more credible and, let me just say, the decibel level is higher as they talk about potential attacks," Ridge said. 

White House officials said the level of concern Monday was not any greater than for the two pre­vious alerts. 
They said Hidge pushed for the alert because of the new infor­mation and out of the apprehen­sion that public. politicians and police were getting complacent. 
"The further removed we get from Sept. 11, I think the natural tendency is to let down our guard," Ridge said. "Unfortunately, we cannot do that." 
Americans can help by report­ing suspicious activity to police, Ridge said. 
The action comes in the mid­dle of the holiday shopping sea­son. an important ti.me for reces­sion-weary retailers. 
"A terrorism alert is not a sig­nal to stop life. It is a call to be vigilant, to know that your gov­ernment is on high alert and to add your eyes and ears to our efforts to find and stop those who want to harm us," Ridge said. 
He said the alert was intended to "remind our citizens, no mat­ter where you live -it can be a big state with a dense popula­tion, or you can be a smaller state with a lot of rural commu­nities -we have no way of assuring or guaranteeing or pin­pointing where the terrorists will attack," he said. 
Ridge made the announcement because Attorney General John Ashcroft was out of town. Bush has distanced himself from the alerts, which have been criti­cized for unduly alarming Americans. 
FBI reorganizes to fight terror 
division our resources, in par­
Associated Press 

ticular to address intelligence and prevention," Mueller said 
WASHINGTON in a briefing with reporters. 

FBI Director Robert Mueller Investigations into the Sept.
said Monday the bureau is 

11 and anthrax attacks will
being restructured to 

not be affected by the restruc­strengthen its ability to fight turing, he said.
terrorism and cybercrime and Approved by Congress last to improve internal security Friday, the plan takes effectand intelligence gathering. 

immediately. The next phase
Responding to terror 

of the restructuring will 
attacks and congressional 

involve field offices backing
misgivings about the bureau's 

away from certain investiga­management, Mueller reorga­
tions, such as bank robberies nized the FBI· to respond and drug crimes. Mueller said more quickly to threats he first wants to assess against national security whether local law enforce­including possible terror ment or other federal agen­attacks and threats against cies can take over those the nation's computer infra­duties. 
Mueller added fo.ur new
structure. 

assistant directors who will
More agents will be added act as his top deputies, in
to new counterterrorism and addition to new intelligence,

cybercrime divisions in Washington. 

cybercrime, technology and security divisions. He also
"We will be expanding 

added a section to work with
under the counterterrorism 

local law enforcement. 
Many of the changes address problems with tech­nology, document handling, internal security and intelli­


Pataf!onia 

gence sharing that have dogged the FBI in recent
excllisively 

years. He stressed the case of 
Robert Hanssen, a veteran FBI agent who pleaded guilty 
at-.~ 
Sminute~ 

to a decade and a half of spy­
from CUTPCST 

ing ·for Moscow, exposed
Campus s ors 

serious flaws in the FBI's internal security. 
Cold Weather Experts 
Call 259-sooo for more details 

page4 The Observer . NEWS Tuesday, December 4, 2001 


Degrees 
continued from page I 
a core of 30 siudcnts in order to test the new program. These students would be enrolled in 17 or 18 hours per semester. The current program outline requires students to take a career planning class, fulfill community service hours, par­ticipate in a foreign travel pro­gram and complete an intern­ship through the college. The emphasis is on service and to gain an understanding of all aspects of the employer-employ­ee relationship. 
Established in 1966 by the Brothers of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, the College's mission has been to provide .a 

OH CHRISTMAS TREE
liberal arts education with the 
intention of transferring to a 
four-year college program. The 
College is being conscious about 
remaining within the original 
mission of the school. 
The general consensus of the administration. faculty, and staff, according to both Mangan and Marcum, is that the addition of the bachelor degree program would be beneficial to Holy Cross. 
Mangan said, "The faculty has said we can educate in four years within the liberal arts pro­gram. We think we can do it and do it well." 
Contact Meghanne Downes at dow11es. l@11d.edu. 




Branches debate 
Reich nomination 
. Top Latin American post becomes new political tug of war 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The White House· and the Senate are deadlocked over the State Department's top Latin American position, nine months after President Bush first pro­posed Otto Reich for the post. 
Senate Democrats, led by Christopher Dodd of Connecticut, refuse to hold a confirmation hearing for Reich, whom they consider unquali­fied. The White House won't withdraw his name, saying he is the victim of a smear campaign. 
Any attempt to pull back Reich's nomination probably would upset Cuban-American leaders in Florida -an impor­tant base of support to both President Bush and his brother, Jeb Bush, who will seek re-elec­tion as Florida governor next year. 
Reich's supporters have urged Bush to bypass the Senate and give Reich a one-year appoint­ment during Congress' recess. But Bush advisers say that is not being considered seriously. 
A recess appointment would be seen as an affront to Senate Democrats at a time the admin­istration is stressing bipartisan­ship against terrorism. 
Moreover, a recess appoint­ment may not be an option. Lawmakers are considering skipping the recess planned for this month because of the war on terrorism. Some Republicans say Democrats may be trying to prevent the possibility of recess appointments -including Reich's. 
Without a recess appoint­ment, Reich's nomination as assistant secretary for Western Hemisphere Affairs is stuck. It's up to Dodd, chairman of Foreign Relations' Western Hemisphere Subcommittee, to schedule a hearing. 
Dodd has said that Reich's nomination is dead. 
"Mr. Reich clearly lacks bipartisan support and I would hope that the administration would select another nominee quickly so that the Senate could act before going out for the year," he said in a statement Monday. 
But Secretary of State Colin Powell has continued to push for a hearing. He has called Reich the most important among State's unconfirmed nominees. 

"He has done nothing ­nothing at all -in his career in government that should be seen as disqualifying for this job," Powell said recently. "He has been looked at, he has been investigated, we've been over all of those investigations, and Otto Reich is an honorable 1nan." 
Dodd and other opponents of Reich have criticized his work in the 1980s as a State Department official heading an office accused of putting out illegal domestic propaganda against Nicaragua's Sandinista government. 
They also suggest that Reich, as ambassador to Venezuela in the Reagan administration, tried to help a Cuban exile sus­pected of bombing a Cuban plane enter the United States. 
And they question whether his work as a lobbyist for compa­nies involved in Latin America presents conflicts of interest. 
The Bush administration and Reich's other supporters strongly reject accusations of wrongdoing and say he should be given a hearing to defend himself. They say Reich, a Cuban-American, is being pun­ished for his political views, particularly his strong criticism of Cuban leader Fidel Castro. 
Dennis Hays, executive vice president of the anti-Castro Cuban-American National Foundation. said he doesn't expect White House support to waver. 
"We've never heard anything other than a firm commitment to Ambassador Reich," he said. 
Dan Fisk of the conservative Heritage Foundation said the White House "should be willing to support him to the extent that he wants to hang in there." 
Reich has declined interviews since the White House announced plans to nominate him in March. He has left his lobbying firm and is working without salary at the State Department. 
Bernard Aronson, the State Department's top Latin American affairs official in the first Bush administration, said 
U.S. relations with the region arc hurt by the lack of an assis­tant secretary backed by both the president and the Senate, someone who can keep Latin America high on the political agenda. 
"Historically, the United States has failed to pay impor­tant sustained attention to the region on a regular basis and that is usually when we've got­ten in trouble in the region," he said. 








ATION 
Tuesday, December 4, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES · page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Pakistan fights extremists: With a new anti•terrorism law and international sup-· port, Pakistan plans lo crack down on Islamic and ethnic extremists responsible for killing hundreds of people every year, a senior offi• cial said Monday. Pakistan enacted the tough anti·terrorism law in August following a spate of religious and politically motivated killings. 
Afghan talks continue despite rift: 
Afghanistan's Northern Alliance said it was pm-· pared to release names of its candidates for an interim administration Monday night, after U.S. envoy James Dobbins accused the alliance of obstructing talks on the Asian nation's future. For the last several days, the Northern Alliance delegation in Germany and leaders back in Kabul have been giving conllicting statement; on what they would find acceptable. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 


Philadelphia mob boss sentenced: 
In another blow to Philadelphia's already crippled Mafia family, former boss Joseph "Skinny Joey" Merlino was sentenced to 14 years in prison Monday for racketeering. Merlina's lawyer said that with good behavior and time already served, his client could be out in about nine years. Going back more than two decades, every Philadelphia mob boss since Angelo Bruno has either been mur­dered or sent to prison. 
Cosmonauts repair ISS dock: Two spacewalking cosmonauts removed an old rubber seal stuck to the international space station. clearing the way for space shuttle Endeavour to lift off Tuesday on a flight to the orbiting outpost. Launch is set for just after sunset amid unprecedented security to guard against terrorist attacks. Endeavour will deliver a new crew to the space station. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
State targets deer poachers: Indiana conservation officers are cracking down on poachers who employ a host of illegal meth­ods -including spotlights that temporarily mesmerize deer -so they can bag an animal. Since firearm deer hunting season began Nov. 17, conservation officers have done four sweeps in eastern Clark County and parts of Scott, Washington and Jefferson counties to look for people who are spotlighting. More extreme cases can result in the seizure of a hunter's gun or a judge's ruling preventing them from hunting in a certain area. 
Market Watch December 3 
Dow 9,763.96 -87.60 
Composite
J~ s~~'.;°' 
Volume: 
1,189,684,992 AMEX: 818.10 +2.10 NASDAQ: 1,904.90 -25.68 NYSE: 575.29 -3.98 S&P 500: 1,129.90 -9.55 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
ENRON CORP (ENE) +53.85 +0.14 0.40 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) -1.72 •0,68 38.97 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -2.84 -0.58 19.86 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -5.20 -.0. 74 13.50 NASDAQ-100 INDE (QQQ) -1.90 -0.62 32,04 

. Former exile unable to stop suicide bombers  Palestinian-based terror groups. Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's declaration  that Palestinian terrorism will not get a free ride. "Terrorism has got to stop," Philip Reeker, a State  senior U.S. official said, was the depth of the violence committed against Israel and the U.S. commitment to  
of war against terrorism  Department spokesman.  punish terrorists and their  
Thursday,  and  missil.e  said. "You can't pick and  supporters grounded in the  
Associated Pcess  attacks on the West Bank  choose. And that's the mes­ Sept. 11 attacks in New  
WASHINGTON Yasser Arafat has come back from exile and from U.S. rebuke as a terrorist to gain American recognition and a Nobel Peace Prize. His failure to stop suicide bombers from killing Israelis, however, is causing the Bush administration to question his credentials as ultimate leader of the Palestinians. He could be losing his grip, in the view of top American officials, as he approaches a last chance to crush Hamas and other  and Gaza, are seen within the U.S. administration as a warning, not the start of all­out war with Arafat's Palestinian Authority. Arafat still has a chance to rein in the terror groups, but it could be his last chance, a senior US official told The Associated Press on Monday, speaking on condition of anonymity. Engaged in its own strug• gle against international terror, the Bush administra• tion decided after at least 26 Israelis were slain and hundreds injured by suicide bombers over the weekend  sage we are giving the Palestinians." Similarly, Bush and his aides are endorsing Israel's right to defend itself, with limited qualification. Targeted assassinations of suspected terrorists, the lat• est of which occurred last Friday, still is considered beyond the pale. Once the bombers struck in Jerusalem and Haifa, the United States abandoned its traditional evenhanded call for restraint and stopped imploring Israel not to pro­voke the Palestinians. What has changed, the  York and Washington. The big unanswered question as U.S. policy -shifts is what the United States would do if Arafat fails to shut down Hamas and the Islamic Jihad, the two main terror groups in territory controlled by Arafat's Palestinian Authority. Robert Satloff, executive director of the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, said, "What is lack• ing from U.S. policy right now is consequences for Arafat's refusal to fight ter­ror."  

3 Taliban militiamen claim to be American 
reported that Walker. a convert to determined.
Associated Press 

Islam. had suffered grenade and bul• Asked about Walker, Rear Adm. WASHINGTON let wounds. John Stuffiebeem, the deputy director Three people who claim to be In an interview posted on of operations for the Joint Chiefs of American citizens and who fought on Newsweek magazine's Web site, his Staff, said he could not say whether 
the side of the Taliban militia are now 

parents identified him from photos as Walker is considered a prisoner of under the control of U.S. forces or John Walker Lindh, 20, of Fairfax, war or whether he would be returned allied opposition forces in northern Calif. to the United States. Afghanistan, senior defense officials Two other people who claim to be Stufflebeem said Walker's status 
said Monday. Americans are under the control of has "not yet been defined." 
A man identified as John Walker is the northern alliance, a defense offi• "The only thing that I can say about receiving medical care from U.S. cial said, speaking on condition of this individual is that this is somebody forces after being discovered among anonymity. The official knew few who claims to be an American citi­captured Taliban troops and al•Qaida details about these two, whose identi­zen." he said. "That claim is being
fighters who had holed up in a 

ties have not been established and respected for the moment. until facts fortress in Mazar•e•Sharif. CNN whose physical condition could not be can be established." 
page 6 The Observer . NEWS Tuesday, December 4, 2001 
CANADA 
U.S. strengthens border security 
Associated Press 
MONTREAL 
The United States and Canada signed far-reaching agreements Monday to increase border security and coordinate immigration policies to secure the world's largest trade relationship. 
Attorney General John Ashcroft and Canadian offi­cials, including Solicitor General Lawrence MacAulay and Immigration Minister Elinor Caplan, signed agree­ments that move the North American neighbors a step closer to the perimeter security concept of preventing terrorists and other undesirables from entering either country from abroad. 
The two measures -one on border security and immigra­tion issues and the other on shared fingerprint technology -include posting about 600 National Guard troops at U.S. border posts to assist belea­guered customs and immigra­tion officials and allowing Canada to be the first foreign country to share information from the FBI's fingerprint image system. Ashcroft said. 
Joint investigative teams comprising U.S. and Canadian forces will be expanded, and the number of immigration officers deployed overseas by both countries would increase, he said. 
"The United States and Canada have chosen to work together against terrorism, and North America is safer ... as a result," Ashcroft said. 
In appearances at the border between Detroit and Windsor, Ontario, and then at the bill­signing in Ottawa. Ashcroft and the Canadian officials empha­sized the agreements were required to combat terrorism after the Sept. 11 attacks in the United States. 

EnrOn lays off 4,000 employees 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON 
Employees carrying boxes, plants, Enron Corp. mugs and other personal items filed out of the company's headquarters in a steady stream Monday, after the bankrupt energy trader told 4,000 workers they were out of a job. 
· The job cuts, which represent nearly 20 percent of Enron's work force, come a day after the former energy trading giant and 13 subsidiaries filed for bankruptcy protection in one oii the largest corporate bankrupt­cies in U.S. history. 
Most of the layoffs were at Enron's Houston headquarters. 
The remaining 3,500 or so employees in the 50-story mir­rored glass tower were sent home. Spokeswoman Karen Denne said later those employ­ees would return to work Tuesday. 
The cuts amounted to nearly 3 percent of downtown Houston's work force of about 150,000. 
Employees were informed during four large meetings Monday morning. 
Their reaction ranged from anger and frustration directed at Enron's management to fear and uncertainty about how they would be able to support their families while looking for new jobs in a soft economy. 
Columbia 
SporU,wear 
r1YTO<:~ ·;or OrT"fQ"YJ f![.
-~l-/ i l-.J i., c,l-J.v.,, ~• I 1. (,_~ 
-~· 1 
5 minute~...A, from CUTPDST 
Campus ·1,1,1if 
Cold Weather Experts 

"It's three weeks before Christmas, and I have nothing," said Joann Matson, a human resources coordinator who was let go. "I thought we deserved to be treated better. It's devastat­ing." 
The steady and slow stream of vehicles that motored on a nar­row side street in front of one of the building's entrances, where somber employees waited for rides home, resembled a funer­al procession. 
As Houston police officers ­on foot, horseback and in patrol cars -observed and directed traffic, employees hauled their belongings into backseats and car trunks and drove away into uncertain futures. 

Senate plans terror bill 
Associated rress 
WASHINGTON 
Senate Democrats prepared a $35 billion anti-terrorism package Monday that ignores a veto threat by President Bush, and could force Republicans to vote against a wartime Pentagon spending bill. 
The anti-terror plan, which the Senate Appropriations Committee planned to votr on Tuesday, exceeds the amount Bush wants by $15 billion. It would add billions for food inspections, state and local preparation for bioterrorism attacks, border security, pro­tection for airports and nuclear facilities, and aid to New York and other areas hit by the Sept. 11 attacks. 

"It's a great gamble if he gambles and wins," committee Chairman Robert Byrd, O­W.Va., said of Bush's call to postpone additional spending until next year. "But God help us all if the gamble loses." 
Byrd, the chief author of the proposal, plans to try adding it to a $318 billion defense bill when his committee votes Tuesday on that measure. 
The panel is expected to approve Byrd's package, which would bring the overall measure to the floor of the Democratic-controlled Senate, probably on Thursday. 
A master of the Senate's parliamentary rules, Byrd has structured hi.s proposal such that minority Republicans supporting Bush might have to block the entire defense pack­age to kill the additional spending. 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
WASHINGTON PROGRAM 
•Study 
in the nation's capitol 

•Work 
in an internship 

•
Fulfill philosophy, theology, and fine arts reqmrements 

•Study 
public affairs 

•
Live in an exciting city 



•
Applications for Fall 2002 & Spring 2003 are now being accepted online 

•Open 
to Sophomores, Juniors, and Seniors from all colleges 


John Eriksen, Director ' 346 O'Shaughnessy Eriksen. l@nd.edu 

Ever Dream of Being Student Body President? 

Would Yol! Like To Lead Your Class To Glory? 
Then Come to Candidate Information Night!!! 
If You Are Interested In Running For A Student Governrnent Office For the 2002-2003 School Year. .. There Will Be A Brief Informational Meeting On 
Wednesday, December 5, .at 7:30 p.m. 
Outside the Student Government Office On the 

2nd Floor of Lafortune Student Center 
eau259-:1000 for more details 


Tuesday, December 3, 2001
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

csc Center for Social Concerns 
CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Social Concern Seminars/SSPis/ISSLPs 
Summer Service Project Internships: Summer Service Project Internships are eight-week service-learning experiences sponsored 
fi 
by Notre Dame alumni clubs across the country. Room and board is provided while students work with agencies serving disadvantaged populations. 
ACC[•N ACCION Internships: For Junior Business majors only. 10-12 weeks working with ACCION offices that are microlending organizations. $2500.00 Scholarship. Room and board stipend provided. 
From Field to Table Sociology 468, Immersion in Immokalee, Florida, March 9-17, 2002 Description: 
Building upon the richness of the Migrant Seminar, this semester long course examines changing food production in America and the impact on the people involved in the food system. The course will introduce students to the cultural and social issues surrounding migrant fann labor through both classroom and experiential learning. Those who participate in this seminar commit themselves during spring break to working with migrant fann workers in Southern Florida. 
~ Instructor permission required. Maximum enrollment -15 students. ~ ~ This seminar is a three credit Sociology course (with a variable credit option.) ~ Applications available at the Sociology Department (810 Flanner) and the Center for Social Concerns; Contact Professor Lincoln Johnson, ,Johnson.4@nd.edu, 631-7615, or Carl Loesch, Loesch.4@nd.edu, 631-3175 

~Nftl?([JT!ED ~N Jff.NDH,.JtQi l!VO l'IEIE:lJ ~N MUK.O? 
"'"' d'JYfll rOR l~f. MILX!CO sm~Nd'Jl?( fni 
The Mexico Seminar is a one credit experiential learning course offered through the CSC and takes place in Mexico City and Oaxaca. Tentative dates: May 20 -June 3, 2002 
The Seminar provides students the opportunity to be immersed in and 
learn about the social, cultural, and international forces operative in the country. Requirements for the Seminar include weekly preparatory sessions, readings, fundraising, journal, final paper, follow-up sessions/presentations. Applications available at the CSC. Due date: Friday, Dec. 14, 5:00 PM Information Session: Tuesday, Dec. 4, 8:00 -9:00 PM, at the CSC For further infonnation, please contact: Brian Noon. Noon. I@nd.edu, 243-2647 Colleen Moore, Moore.43@nd.edu, I-7600 Rachel Tomas Morgan, TomasMorgan.@nd.edu, 1-9404 
Current Volunteer Needs 
Logan Center Opportunity 
Logan Center Dance· Marissa Runkle 289-4831 
Dance the night away on December 7th from 7-10 p.m. with Logan Center adults who have developmental disabilities. Pickups: 6:30p.m. at LeMans, 6:45p.m. at PW Circle, 6:50p.m. at O'Neill 
Tutoring Mentors 
Melanie Williams 234-6985 
She is looking for role models/mentors to spend some time with her daughters, aged 10-12. They enjoy games, puzzles, crafts and outdoor activities. Transportation to Notre Dame can be provided. Jefferson Elementary -Learn.Fun Program 
Tamika Jones 283-8720 They are looking for some tutors to help with homework during their 
Learn.Fun program. It serves children K-6u1 grade, Monday~Thursday from 2:40-3:30. They would be happy to have volunteers for even just one-two days a week. 
Washington High School 
Mrs. Roberts 283-7200 

January 18-22, 2002 Two Package deals which include Hotel Accommodations and bus fare. 
SIGN UP: 

December 3,4,and 5 in the dining halls: North Hours: 12-2, 5-7 South Hours: 12-2, 5-8 OR 
Online after November 26th at 
www.nd.edu/~prolife 
Post-Graduate Service: 
Marist Volunteers, Information Sessions 
Wednesday, December 5, 4 p.m. & 6 p.m. at the CSC 
CAP Corps, Midwest, Information Session 
Thursday, December 6, 5:30 p.m. at the CSC 
..., Holy Cross Associates Holy Cross Associates Satellite Office Hours in the Coleman-Morris Campus Ministry Building: Every 
Wednesday from 12 p.m.-2 p.m. Stop by with questions or just to talk with Anne Moriarty or Rebekah Go about the HCA post-graduate service program! Additional hours possible if requested by calling: 1-5521 
/'" ,('"•','.'~~ 

;c,+t,,·.:-.:·:·'·::; ·-_-· .. _
=-.:;:;::;,;;;.;;;:;=.:;..,,.,~. ,, ·< . 

. , ..·F;OR~.,.-UDENTS AN PLUNGE!!! 
'~v~fy:~JJor urban center in the ri ?turban .soci~ issues, with P!lc prtibl~ms .of poor children, .}mooy mpref After such experi­::jieW: a<;4clemiq···guestions. What ·~~y;:'i~tf,urcities't What does my ·v~~(b~id?·whatisthe "living .Jtijer:wts comimfspring or next 
' · · ·. · .·· · ·· · · ·· ase contact 
Washington H.S. is a diverse urban school, serving mostly African American and Hispanic students. They are interested in starting an after school program and looking for some students to serve as tutors. 
***If you have any questions about these volunteer projects feel free to email cscvoJs@nd.edu.*** 


O
THE 
BSERVER 


IEWPOINT 
page 8 Tuesday, December 4, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Nocrc Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR TN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EOJTOR  BUSINFSS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Wood.  
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Pa, Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley V!EVl'P0INT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: NoahAmstadrer ScENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAlm MARYS EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richard.son 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Ad.am Turner CONTROLLF.ll.: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Ka.tie McKenna 
CONTACT Us OmcE MANAGF.RIGENERAL INFo....; ......... 631-7471 FAX. ................................................. ...........631-6927 ADVERTISING............................ .........63 l-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EmroRIAssT. ME .................... 631-454I BUSINESS OFFICE..........................•..•..•....... 631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT ........................... ·········· .•..........631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu SP0RTS........................................................ 631-4543 observer.sporcs.l@nd.edu 
SCENE..........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMJNISTRATORS.... .............631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:l!observer. nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
weekly student reviews 
minute forecists 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rares of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
about The Observer
archives to search for 
to meet the editors and 
articles published after 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of rhe UniversityofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither inscirucion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent che opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available co all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qumions regarding Observerpolu:i~ should be direct­ed kl Editor ;n ChiefMike Connolly. 

"We should not as a society grow life to destroy it." In these words President Bush summed up the only civilized response to the cloning of a human embryo by scientists in Worcester, Mass. 
"Biologically, the Charles Rice entities we're cre­ating are only cel­lular life. They're Right or not a human life." 
Wrong?
said Dr. Michael West, president of Advanced Cell Technology, Inc. (ACT). He is, of course, wrong. Each human embryo is a human being. What else could it be? 
Cloning is either therapeutic or repro­ductive. The ACT cloning was therapeu­tic in that the embryos were created for the purpose of extracting their stem cells for possible use in treating Parkinson's and other diseases. Embryos are killed when stem cells are removed. In reproductive cloning, the cloned embryo would be implanted in a woman's womb and carried by her to · birth. 
Various technical problems remain to be solved before efficient human cloning of either type becomes a practical possi­bility. Nevertheless, as Lori B. Andrews, director of the Chicago-Kent Institute for Science, Law and Technology com­mented: "What they're doing is taking us one step closer to the human repro­ductive cloning ... The next step ­implanting embryos into women -is not experimental at all. We do it ... with in vitro fertilization. So if these scien­tists show us a way to create cloned human embryos -ostensibly for thera­peutic purposes -what they're also doing is showing us a technique to clone human beings." 
Cloning is not illegal, although federal law forbids the use of federal funds for human cloning. ACT receives no federal funds. Last summer the House of Representatives voted to ban all human cloning; the bill is pending in the Senate. 
What is the relation between cloning and embryonic stem cell research? Advances in research on stem cells derived from adults may render the use of embryonic stem cells unnecessary. Last Aug. 9, President Bush announced his support for federal funding of research only on embryonic stem cells which had already been harvested at that time. However, use of embryonic stem cells, or stem cells derived from other adults, for transplant into a patient involves possible rejection of those cells by the patient's immune sys­tem. The rejection problem would be avoided by use of stem cells taken from an embryonic clone of the patient him­self. 
This is one reason why therapeutic embryonic cloning will probably not be outlawed. Another reason is that "ther­apeutic" cloning of human embryos is a potentially profitable enterprise. "By rushing into print preliminary experi­ments in creating ... embryos through cloning," noted the Wall Street Journal, "scientists at [ACT] can get ... a leg up in the effort to turn the technology into a viable business." 
For a more basic reason, it is unlikely that either type of human embryonic cloning will be banned. Our culture tends to liberate technology from moral restraints. John Paul II insists that: "Science and technology require ... respect for the fundamental criteria of the moral law ... (T]hey must be at the service of the human person ... accord­ing to the design and will of God." Unfortunately, as author Kirkpatrick Sale predicted, "In a world that ... com­modifies gene-splicing, amniocentesis and in vitro fertilization, there cannot be any lasting legal restraints on ... reproductive technology ... [WIhen the Supreme Court found in 1980 that patenting genetically created life was legal, and thus that people could make profits from it, it opened a floodgate." 

A further reason why human cloning will not be effectively prohibited is the dominance of the contraceptive ethic. In contraception, like cloning and in 
· vitro fertilization, couples deliberately separate the unitive and procreative aspects of sex and, as John Paul put it, they "act as arbiters of the divine plan." They "claim a power which belongs solely to God: the power to decide, in a final analysis, the coming into existence of a human person. They [act not as] cooperators in God's creative power, but [asJ the ultimate depositaries of the source of human life. In this perspec­tive, contraception is ... so profoundly unlawful as never to be, for any reason, justified ... [T]o say the contrary is equal to maintaining that ... it is lawful not to recognize God as God." It is futile to try to put the brakes on human cloning, or abortion or euthana­sia, without restoring the conviction that God, and not man, is the arbiter of when and how life begins and ends. This requires a reassessment and rejec­tion of contraception. Sometimes we can learn even from politicians. "Therapeutic cloning," said Sen. Sam Brownbark (R. -Kan.), "is the process by which an embryo is ... creat­ed for the ... purpose of subsequently killing it for its stem cells ... It turns a child into property. The child's sole pur­pose in creation is to be destroyed for someone else's benefit. This is no way to operate in a civil society." 
Professor Emeritus Rice is on the Law School faculty. His column appears every other Tuesday. He can be reached at plawecki. l@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Courtney Boyle Sam Derheimer Helena Payne Orris Scott Elizabeth Lee Graphics 
Sports Andy Devoto Bryan Kronk Production Viewpoint Noah Amstadter Kristin Yernm Lab Tech Amanda Greco 
POLL QUESTION 
Who do you want to be the new head football coach? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''.A great civilization is not conquered from without until it has destroyed itself within." 
Will Durant historian 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

IEWPOINT 

Tuesday, December 4, 2001 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Students appreciate Davie's character 
Remember Davie as a good role model 
I am simply writing to thank The Observer and Mike Connolly for their positive articles on Bob Davie and his dismissal. We all know his record and, yes, Notre Dame football has seen better days. Davie, however, is a good guy and I think that this started to get Jost these past few weeks. People all over campus began judging Davie as a person based on his coaching skills. 
I personally will not remember Davie as the only Notre Dame football coach to be officially fired from the University. I won't just remember the losing record of my senior year. In the big scheme of things, those are triv­ial. 
Instead. I will remember the advice that he shared with Mike Connolly at one of the most difficult times of his career. I will remember the Davie who admitted when he was at fault even though the easy thing would be to blame it on the team, the refs, the weather, anything. I will remember the Davie who would not resign because he had signed a contract and wanted to show the world, the University and his own family that he would honor what he put his name to. I will remember the coach who had his priorities straight and who left a pep rally early to go support his daughter as she found out whether or not would win her high school Homecoming crown. 
Thank you to The Observer for recognizing a great role model and a great man. 
Elizabeth Emerson 
senior 
Lyons Hall Dec. 3, 2001 

Education does not preclude activism 
Many have said, however erroneously, that if, at 20, you aren't pro-revolution, you don't have a heart, but if, by 30, you're not pro-institution, you don't have a brain. Aaron Kreider, the most irrevo­cably liberal figure on campus would have us believe that the progression is a simple matter of choice. Choose to become educated, Kreider says, and you choose to "discard all your non-academic goals." While haphazardly interchanging the terms "science" and "education," Kreider objects to the "required neutrali­ty" of academia. 
Hmm ... Science. Anywhere else on Earth, the term demands objective study, devoid of sentiment. In Kreider's Liberal Excuse-ville, science and education somehow become conjoined in a counter­productive, sterile disection of mankind. Nothing could be further from the truth. 
Nor could Kreider's explanation of why he cannot continue his studies. Kreider himself touches upon the real reason for his escapism saying, "I do no think I am inherently lazy." 
Think again. Mr. Kreider. The trade-off between study and activism is not char­acterized as you might suggest by a mutually exclusive relationship. Were it so, it would not follow that the most avid and accomplished activists of all history were also some of the most highly edu­cated individuals of their time. Martin Luther King. Jr., Ghandi and such similar figures were indeed all successful activists, but, moreover, were accom­plished scholars with the wisdom, obtained through study, to do good. Now, of course, Kreider's typical leftist reac­tion would be to remind us that such men did not attend year after year at educa­tional institutions. I would remind Mr. 
Kreider, however, of his need to think about his definition of education, ques­tion it and resist supporting the all too convenient liberal stereotype of educa­tion as the enforced conformity of the individual. 
Instead, think about what it means to be educated or learned: simply that one learns. spends significant time dedicated to studying and maturing his mental, relational and productive faculties. The great activists I've mentioned correctly recognized education as an investment of time in their cause. Only after studying necessary social skills like proper com­munication and composition, and then specific issues were the great revolution­aries equiped to make a difference. 
Education isn't necessarily that which attendance at a school provides. Plenty have graducated institutions of higher learni!Jg without gaining any real educa­tfon. Nor is education necessarily restricted to one's current locale. So you don't like the level of activism and sup­port structure for activists at Notre Dame, Aaron? Want a liberal education and a liberal environment, Mr. Kreider? Then go attend a liberal college. 
Your cry: "How can I study when peo­ple are dying?" is tantamount to the pathetic sigh of a lazy soul bellowing, "I don't really want to commit time to studying, so I'll proffer education as a scapegoat." Accept your responsibilities to study or be condemned as another list­less hippy, full of good intentions but without the gumptjon to realize them. 
Chris Hoffman 
junior O'Neill Hall Dec 3, 2001 

Press conference showed Davies class 
I will start out by saying I know most people will disagree with what I have to say. I like Davie. I agree he has had a bad stint as head coach. I will concede that he quite possibly should have been fired for his performance in recent years. I will even go so far as to say he should have probably never been given the head position. But I am really sick of the Davie bashing that has gone on. 
When Davie was hired he was told what he had to take care of -academics. That was what he had to do. He did it with flying colors. To those who kept saying how that didn't relate at all because "Academics don't equal football" ... you're wrong. Plain and simple. It was a valid defense by Davie. Again, I agree it should also be back up by winning games, but he has done what he was hired to do. 
As for the apparent classlessness of Davie not resigning: 
1. No coach has ever been fired before because specific contracts were not used. 
2. Again, Davie had a valid argument that the University came to him. If you say "Hey we will pay you money to do something," you have no basis to think that person will leave because you want him too. And to block the argument I know is coming, "winning games" is not what his contract was extended for. It was expected. but not the reason. He was to coach, he coached. Boom. He isn't in breach. 
A final thing. I would like to congratulate Davie on his press conference Sunday. I think it really showed the class some people don't realize he has. He could have taken the time to complain about the University (since the reporters by all means tried to bring that about), or advertise himself, but he instead responded to questions sincerely and showed the love for Notre Dame that many have questioned. 
I have a lot of respect for Bob Davie and wish him the best of luck in the future. 
James Hill junior Stanford Hall Dec. 3, 2001 

Band expresses gratitude 
On behalf of the Notre Dame Band and Band Staff, we would like to take this opportunity to express special thanks to you, our students and fans here at Notre Dame. 

have enjoyed the student partic­ipation in our performances at halftime -from the poignant moments on Sept. 22, during 
"Amazing Grace" -to the won­
derful sing-a-long atmos­

Sometimes you need phere of "Lean On Me" in to visit other places our salute to the Class to appreciate of 2002. what you have at Without the sup­home. Last 
port of our stu­weekend we dents and the had the special tradi­opportunity tions at Notre to travel to Dame. we Purdue and would be just perform. It another band became at another immedi­game. It is ately evi­you, the stu­dent that dents and the stadi­fans, that um, its have made it fans and a wonderful above all experience its stu­for 114 foot­dents ball seasons were quite -and we different look forward than ours at to putting Notre Dame. together the 
The Notre best band ever Dame student for the 115th. body has been You arc what wonderful in makes Notre Dame their support of a special place. the Band at Thank you. pregame and half­time. We especially Ken Dye and the Notre enjoy the fantastic response Dame Band as our Band comes out of the tun­Dec. 3, 2001 nel into the greatest football stadi­um in the nation. In addition, we 

O
THE BSERVER 


page 10 
Tuesday, December 4, 200 I 

ALBUM REVIEW 
Ludacris flows with style and humor on Word 
ALBUM REVIEW 
More focused, Dilated blows up on Expansion Team 

By LAURA ROMPF 
Scene Music Criric 
Ludacris's sophomore album, Word Of Mouf, covers all the bases. It will make you laugh. It will make you dance. Heck, it might even make you reminisce. 
The first single off the album, "Rollout (My Business)," has a catchy beat and will have crowds at Boatclub and Heartland 

AFP Photo Ludacris goes for full entertainment value with his latest, Word Of Mouf. 
throwing their arms in the air. Ludacris flows with ease over the bouncy lyrics. tie says, "Man that car doesn't come out 'til next year/ Where in the f'<"* 'd you get it?/ 80,000 bucks gone/ Where in the f"'** did you spend H?" 
The album has another single. familiar to MTV and BET ,iewers. "Arca Codes" is a frequently played hit from the past sum­mer. Accompanied by Nate lJogg, Ludacris sings about all his women from different areas ofthe country. 
The song has a lively beai and the lyrics illustrate Ludacris's talent as a writer who can not only make people sing along ­they'll be laughing at the same time. His humor is infectious. No doubt, people will be repeating lines off Word of Mouf just like they reenact scenes from Dumb and Dwnber. 
Two skits on the album are especiaily funny. In "Howhere," Ludacris continues a comedy skit found on the song "Ho'' from his debut album Back For the First Time. A friend calls Ludacris and asks where he is. "At the TexaHO filling up," Ludacris answers. 
The friend asks for a girls number, which Ludacris claims to have lost. "You can't check your Holodex," the friend says. Ludacris then asks if the girl is from "ChicagHO" or "OhiHO." The skit contin­ues in this witty fashion, showing Ludacris's cleverness. 
"Greatest Hits," a sec­

Word of Mouf
ond skit on the album, is even funnier. It starts off 
Ludacris saying, "Betier than college girls 

Def Jam Records gone wild. It's more off the chain 
Rating that late night with Mrs. Cleo. 
alal:al:al 
Disturbing 
the Peace Entertainment presents Ludacris's Greatest Hite; Album. done by (a dramatic pause) Random White People." 
The skit then continues with "Random White People" performing the hits off of Ludacris's first album, including "Southern Hospitality," "What's Your Fantasy," a,nd "Ho." Then the voice over repeats: "It's random white people. Uncut, uncensored -and off beat as f"**." 
Although he has a talent for humor, on "Growing Pains," he shows he can do seri­ous songs too. While he raps about memo­ries every child of the '80s would get nos­talgic about -transformers, G.I. Joes, Starter Jackets and Koolaid. He also tells of the obstacles a child has growing up poor. 

The song features Fate Wilson and Keon !3ryee and the chorus says, "We were try­ing so hard/ Hard to survive/ Cause even though we were young/ We had to stay strong/ No matter what we went through/ It was me and mv crew/ And that's how we went/ v\'hen we \Vere kids." 
Overall, the album has quite a variety of songs -a couple which will make it big as radio hits. So regardless of whether Word of' Mouf' is making you dance, laugh or reminisce, undoubtably this latest release of' Ludacris covers all the bases. Heck, it may even be a home run. 
Contact Laura Rompf at lrompf@nd.edu 
By SAM DERHEIMER 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Despite the name of their new album, Expansion Team, the Dilated Peoples aren't new to this game. They blew up in the late '90s as a leader of the L.A. hip-hop renaissance and have stamped their name down in the underground scene with a force matched only by artists like Mos Def and Jurassic 5. 
Though Expansion Team may only be DJ Babu and MCs Evidence and Rakaa's sophomore release, Dilated have learned a lot in the time since their debut album, The Platform, came out back in 2000. Unlike The Platform, which came together over a number of years, Expansion Team was put together at once, with a focus and organization the group never quite attained on their first album. 
"This album was recorded as a complete piece, so· it will show more continuity and flow," said Rakaa. 
And for once, we can actually take a rapper at his word. Expansion Team flows with the sharp, spliced cuts, thick beats and "battle rhyme skills" that brought this underground team into the sunlight in the first place. And with song titles like "Hard Hitters," "Pay Attention" and "War," the Dilated Peoples aren't making any fronts, they came to play this time around. 
Joining the team, Dilated recruited a who's who 

Babu summed up the album, "I feel like this is our first album. It's an album of all three minds on the same path. The growth is tremendous. I think it's going to open new ears, while still being true to original base." 
"An expansion team is a new team in the league," Evidence explains. "We're coming into the game. We've been doing this for a while, but this is our major league run." 
Contact Sam Derheimer at sderheim@nd.edu 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

CENE.
music 

Tuesday, December 4, 2001 page 11 
MUSIC COLUMN 
Still His Guitar Gently Weeps 
In memory of George Harrison (1943 -2001) 
"SW1rise doesn't last all room­ "Beatlemania."  also played a  
ing/ A cloudburst doesn't last all  Due to his rather serious  major role in  
day/ Seems my love is up and has  demeanor and his sideman posi­ the 1971 con•  
let you with no warning/ It's not  tion on stage, Harrison became  cert for  
always going to be this grey/ All  labeled as "the quiet Beatie,'' a  Bangladesh in  
lhings must pass' All things must  reputation that would last him a  New York  
pass away ... "  lifetime. His song-writing ability  City, a Hare  
Lyrics like  was downplayed both by the pub­ Krishna span­ 
lhese expose George  Julie Bender  lic and by his band mates, as the "Lennon-McCartney" tag became  sored event. As a loyal  
Harrison's  a staple in households throughout  devotee to the  
amazing understand­ Scene Music  the world. Harrison though, was a driving  Hare KrLi,hna Society,  
ing of the  Critic  force in the Beatles. His electric  Harrison gave  
beauty of  guitar work can be heard on the  the Krishnas  
life, as well  earliest of Beatle albums, only to  much publici­ 
as its ritual passing in death.  matum to an art form on later  ty by speaking  
With lfarrison's passing last  works. It was Harrison who  publicly about  
Friday after a long struggle vdth  wrote some of the most classic  the group and  
cancer, his words seem particu­ Beatie songs, such as "While My  donating large  
larly poignant. They come not  Guitar Gently Weeps," "Here  sums of  
only as a source of comfort to his  Comes the Sun," and  money.  
many fans, but also as an indica­ "Something." It was Harrison  In his later  
tion of the genius Harrison pos­ who brought the Indian influence  years,  
sessed, despite his years living in  into the Beatles' music with the  Harrison  AFP Photo  
the shadows.  use of the sitar on songs like  helped found the band The  the headlines for a near fatal  that Harrison was ... the kid out of  
As a child, Harrison caught the  "Norwegian Wood" and "Love  Travelling Wilburys with the likes  attack by a crazed fan in his own  Liverpool. the Beatie, the mystic,  
rock and roll bug early. He would  You To." And it was Harrison  of Bob Dylan, Tom Petty and Roy  home in Oxfordshire, England.  the solo performer, the Krishna,  
tune into Radio Luxembourg and  who encouraged the Beatles to go  Orbison among others. He later  A reflection on Harrison's life  there is one thing that stands out.  
struggle to hear the strains of  to India to study transcendental  went on to win a Grammy for the  reveals a man whose many tal­ Harrison say it best in his own  
Elvis Presley and Buddy Holly  meditation  album released  ents are still not realized. He lived  words, "You can have my love,  
through the static. At the age of 12, Harrison tried to craft his own box-string guitar, but when  under the Maharishi Mahesh Yogi.  "George himselfis no mystery. But the  by the band. In the 1990's, Harrison  as an enigma, a sort of "dark horse," as his former record com­pany was so aptly named. As  you can have my smiles. Forget the bad parts, you don't need them. Just take the music, the  
he tightened the strings, the instrument fell to pieces. Harrison did not let early fail­ In his solo years, Harrison stepped out of  mystery ofGeorge inside is immense."  regrouped with his surviving band mates,  John Lennon once said, "George himself is no mystery. But the mystery of George inside is  goodness, because it's the very best and it's the part I give most willingly."  
ure discourage his love for music,  his role as side- Paul McCartney  immense."  Good-bye, George. We'll miss  
however, and within a few years  man and  John Lennon  and Ringo  Harrison has proven himself to  you.  
he was recruited by his friend Paul McCartney to join the band  stepped into the spotlight. He  the Beatles  Starr. Together they released  be more than just a quiet side­man. With a guitar (or in some  The views expressed in this col­ 
known as the Beatles. As the  released a  three anthology  cases a sitar) strapped to his  umn are those ofthe author and  
youngest member of the group,  triple album in 1970 entitled All  collections of Beatie music, as  shoulder, music could pour forth  not necessarily those ofThe  
Harrison was barely out of his  Things Must Pass, which is  well as an anthology book docu­ from his fingers with ease, creat­ Observer.  
teens when he was engulfed in  regarded by some as the best solo  . menting their lives.  ing what is the backdrop of so  Julie Bender can be contacted  
the fury soon to be known as  work of any ex-Beatie. Harrison  Most recently, Harrison made  many lives. Beyond everything  at Bender. I O@nd.edu.  

DeLaSou Cy~ress .Hi11r•..·.c( ..~ned ••• ,.,
Low i-Las-c Ntah~,l·'D.reame4,_. SometiodyLoved me 4\ · Outkas:e1;,createst,H1ts:it:r:t,
-·:-: ·-_. . ·,. :::: ,,,.-:.,, ::: .. ;..",: ,.. ,-,-. ,_,: : , --:-.:,· ?F'•··o~,:: 
Nariah Carey .. Greates1 Hi1s
}t. '_.,,.,", ' 
',,:,,..... , ....·. 

Basement.JiXJE';;lfflet&tS'> Warren G • Return.:of.,t· ltob 'r .. , ' :,!¦.!,. ' ' 

page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, December 4, 2001 
NCAA FOOTBALL NFL 
Nebraska on verge of BCS comeback 
Associated Press 
Nebraska is perhaps on the verge of its greatest comeback ever thanks to the Bowl Championship Series standings. 
The Cornhuskers, all but out of the national title chase after a 62-36 loss to Colorado on Nov. 23, would play No. 1 Miami in the BCS championship game if LSU beats Tennessee on Saturday. 
The BCS standings confirmed as much Monday, ranking Miami first, Tennessee second and Nebraska third -ahead of fourth-place Colorado, the team it lost to by 26 points -and fifth-place Oregon. 
Expect Huskers fans everywhere to learn the words to "Tiger Rag" and tune in when LSU plays Tennessee for the Southeastern Conference title on the final night of the regular season. 
The Vols, favored by seven points, can prevent what is certain to create a huge controversy by winning and moving on to play the Hurricanes at the Rose Bowl in Pasadena. 
Miami has 2.50 points in the BCS rankings, Tennessee 4.79 points, Nebraska 8.39 points, Colorado 9.88 points, and Pac-10 champion Oregon has 10.44 points. 
Nebraska coach Frank Solich said his team deserves to be third in the stand­ings, adding that unlike Miami, Tennessee and Oregon. his team didn't have any close-call victories. 
"All of the games we won, we won by at least 10 points. We did not have to win a game by having a lucky bounce or a field goal at the end," Solich said. "None of them came down to a 2-point conversion or went into overtime. The games were really decided either before or the middle of the fourth quarter." 
And what about the loss to the Buffaloes? "We should have and could have played better," he said. "Colorado is an excellent football team and that is playing outstanding right now." 
BCS officials must be hoping for a Vols victory to avoid explaining how a team can play for a national title even though it couldn't even win its own division of the Big 12 Conference. 
An LSU win also creates the possibility of split national champions. If Oregon wins its BCS game and Nebraska beats Miami in the Rose Bowl, the Ducks could be voted No. 1 in the final AP poll. 
"It's very difficult to see how a two­loss team (Colorado) can be ranked ahead of a one-loss team, especially since at one time the Pac-10 represent­ed almost one-third of all teams ranked in the BCS standings," Oregon coach Mike Bellotti said. "There still exists a bias when it comes to college football on the West Coast. I know the computers that make up the BCS were supposed to eliminate that, but you still have people inputing the data into the computers." 
The AP voters cast their final Top 25 ballots following the Rose Bowl, and all I-A teams are eligible to finish No. 1. 
Not so in the USA Today/ESPN coach­es poll, which automatically crowns the Rose Bowl winner its national champi­on. 
The BCS standings, set up to deter­mine which teams play in a title game, use a formula that incorporates the AP media and coaches' polls, eight comput­ers. strength of schedule, won-lost record and bonus points for big wins. 
The BCS aligns six major conference champions with four big bowl games, the Rose, Sugar, Fiesta and Orange. Two at-large teams are then selected to fill out the field. 
Nebraska moved into contention fol­lowing a series of upsets on Saturday. Florida and Texas, second and third in last week's BCS standings, fell out of contention with losses. That allowed the Huskers to improve from fourth to third and the Vols from sixth to second. 
Miami's 2.50-point breakdown was: 1 point for poll average, 1 point for com­puter average, .60 for strength of sched­ule, 0 for won-loss record and a .1 bonus point deduction for a 65-7 win over Washington on Nov. 24. The Hurricanes clinched a Rose Bowl spot with a 26-24 win over Virginia Tech on Saturday. 
The bonus award -new this :;eason -is based on a sliding scale from 1.5 points for beating a first-place team down to .1 for a win over the 15th-place team. The bonus is awarded after the other elements are calculated. 
Tennessee (4.79) had 2 points for poll average, 2.83 points for computer aver­age, .16 for strength of schedule, 1 for won-loss record and a 1.2 point bonus deduction for beating sixth-place Florida 34-32 on Saturday. 
Nebraska (8.39) had 4.5 points for poll average, 2.67 for computer average, 
0.72 for strength of schedule, 1 for won­loss record and a .5 bonus deduction for beating 11th-place Oklahoma 20-10 on Oct. 27. 
The final BCS standings will be released Dec. 9. 

Favre leads Pack back 
Associated Press 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. 
Facing a tie game with two minutes left Monday night, the Green Bay Packers weren't wor­ried. 
Not with Brett Favre on their side. And not with the Jacksonville Jaguars on the other. 
Favre threw three touchdown passes, and ran 6 yards for the game-winner with 1:30 left to rally the Packers from 14 points down for a 28-21 victory over the Jaguars -the masters of the late-game col­lapse. 
Favre rolled around left end on a bootleg, then just squeezed into the corner of the end zone for the go-ahead score. It was his first rushing touchdown since Oct. 25, 1998, and ended the longest drought of his career. 
Mark Brunell led the Jaguar.s (3-8) to midfield on their late desperation drive, but he was sacked on second-and-short, and two plays later lost a fumble to end yet another close loss. 

Favre threw for 362 yards to help the Packers (8-:-\) stay one game behind Chicago for the NFC Central lead with the teams set to meet next Sunday. 
The Jaguars blew a late lead for the fourth time in six games, and threw yet another dis­traction onto a pile that includes Jimmy Smith's recent positive test for cocaine and Tom Coughlin's potential can­didacy for the Notre Dame job. 
They looked bad doing it, committing 111 yards in penalties, enough to nullify Smith's 116-yard receiving night. 
With the game tied at 21, Mike Hollis had a chance to give the Jaguars the lead, but his 42-yard field goal hit the left upright -somehow fitting for Jacksonville's star-crossed season. 
Before that, Favre ral­lied the Packers from a 21-7 deficit. 
Most of the damage came at the expense of cornerback Fernando Bryant, who has made himself one of Jacksonville's numerous distractions this season, as the most outspoken critic of the soft-zone defenses the Jaguars have used to blow all those leads. 
Given the chance to play in the man-to-man he likes, Bryant surren­dered a 45-yard touch­down to Bill Schroeder to make the score 21-14. The Jaguars lost a fum­ble on the ensuing kick­off, and Favre looked Bryant's way again, hooking up with Antonio Freeman for a 29-yard gain to set up the tying touchdown. 
The Jaguars went up 21-7 early in the third quarter when defensive end Tony Brackens sacked Favre and forced a fumble that Ainsley Battles scooped up for a 60-yard touchdown return. 
Green Bay improved to a league-best 26-6 in December since 1994, even though this was a 60-degree night in Florida, hardly Packer weather. 
Trailing 13-0, Favre scooped a left-handed shovel pass to Ahman Green for a 13-yard score to cut the deficit to seven. 
NBA 

Knicks top Rice, Rockets 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
On a night when the Glen Rice trade looked like a steal for the Houston Rockets, the New York Knicks could at least take solace in a vic­tory. 
Allan Houston may not have been effective against Glen Rice on defense, but he got the best of Rice on a key drive late in the fourth quarter. 
Allan Houston got the better of Rice on the most important play of the game, spoiling Rice's return to Madison Square Garden for the first time since being traded as the Knicks beat the Rockets 89-86 Monday night. 

Rice scored a season­high 20 points and was at his best when matched against Houston, repeat­edly driving around and scoring over his former teammate. 
But when Houston got the ball isolated against Rice with 18 seconds left, he dribbled to his left and launched a quick jumper from the baseline to give New York an 87-85 lead. 
"He hit a tough shot, but Allan has done that over and over and over. There wasn't really much I could do," Rice said. 
From there, Houston and Latrell Sprewell each made one of two free throws and the Knicks survived an off-balance 3­point attempt by Cuttino Mobley just before the final buzzer to win for the fourth time in five games. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. ar the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES LOST & FOUND 
SEMESTER BREAK WORK 400+ LOCATIONS AROUND THE U S WWW.WORKFORSTUDENTS.CO M 
SPRING BREAK Cancun, Jamaica, 
S. Padre, & all Florida destinations. BEST Hotels, FREE parties. LOWEST prices! 
www.breakerstravel.com 
-
(800) 985-6789. 
VW 97 Jetta GL, Sspd, red/drkgry,­sunroof, CD, pwrlocks, AC, immac­ulate, 29K, $12,000/best, Kimberly or Rich at 631-5368 
GET ORGANIZED, 
NEW PALM M105, $140, 
~
246-9549 ... 
:lfT.-'-ir-• 
FOUND: Kitten outside of Graduate residences. Call 298-1533. 
Lost Silver Heart Charm with, ·'November 24th, 2000" inscribed on it. If found, please call Morgan at 634-2449. 
WANTED 
WANTED: SPRING BREAKERS! Sun Coast Vacations wants to send you on Spring Break to Cancun, the Bahamas, Jamaica. or Mazatlan FOR FREEi To tind out how, call 1­888-777-4642 or email: sales@sun­coastvacations. com 
Looking tor responsible person to 
. housesit and take care of 2 dogs & cat, from 12/22 to 1/5. House is 7 blocks from campus. $300. 287-3054. 
SPRING BREAK PARTY! Indulge in FREE Travel, Drinks, Food and Parties with the Best DJs and celebrities in Cancun, Jamaica, Mazatlan, and the Bahamas. Go to StudentCity.com, call 1-800-293­1443 or email sales@studentcity.com to find out 
more. 
FOOSBALL-Looking for high level players. Are you good enough? Call D 257-4441 
Galling Elvis ... looking for students to work as impersonators at JPW for the 1950s booth. Desperately seeking James Dean, Marilyn 
Monroe and the KING! Call Jocie Antonelli 
at631·0106 
FOR SALE 
2000 Toyota Echo 4dr, red, auto, cd/cass 19,000ml, like new, must sell 10,500 obo 631-51441234-7741 
1996 Toyota Camry XLE 75k mi Loaded Excellent Condition $10,995 257-3429 
95 Mazda 626 LX, loaded, leather & power sunroof, 69,000 miles. $5,500. Days: 231-3930 Eves: 616­
445-0922 
Moving off campus? Bed,desk,chairs,shelves for sale-Call Jen 277-9661 
82 Cadillac Eldorado coupe. Very good condition. Going to Rome pro­gram. $2,800. Call 631-5663. Ask for Goncalo or email gcorneli@nd.edu 
FOR RENT 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM­PUS mmmrentals.com email:mmm­rentals@aol.com 
Houses available for 3 to 6 stu­dents. Good area.. ADT, washer-dryer-air. Dave 340-0106 

Student Wanted! Alum owned 2 SPRING BREAK INSANITY! story, 5 bdr, 2 blh w/new carpet. WWW.INTER-CAMPUS.COM OR appl, sec.roof & furnace, 3 lot yd, 1 CALL 1-800-327-6013 GUARAN­blk.N of Club 23. 1-800-731-0043 TEED LOWEST PRICES' CAN­
CUN, JAMAICA, FLORIDA AND 
BAHAMAS PARTY CRUISE! FIF­
TEEN YEARS EXPERIENCE! 

FREE TRIPS FOR CAMPUS SPRING BREAK Largest selection REPS! of Spring Break Destinations, including Cruises' Rep Positions, Are you a former Observer staffer? 
·Free Drinks and Free trips avail-Come to The Observer's 35th able. www.EpicuRRean.com 1-800-Anniversary Reunion, April 20, 231-4-FUN 2002 at South Bend Marriott. 
PERSONAL 

Email obsreunion@hotmail.com to Spring Break with STS,' Americas e-mail your contact information. #1 Student Tour Operator. Promote trips on campus, earn cash and free The Observer wishes all good luck trips. Info/Reservations. 1-800-648-on finals. 4849 www.ststravel.com 
Take the NDToday/Observer poll at EARN HOLIDAY CASH NDToday.com. 257-8129 
Let your voice be heard. Advertise to your friends for just pennies a day in OBSERVER Want to advertise? Call The CLASSIFIEDS. Call 631-7471 for Observer advertising department at information, or stop by the Observer o1tice in 024 South Dining Hall (219) 631 -6900 
Tuesday, December 4, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
NBA 
Jordan to miss tonight's game 
Associated Press 
More than eight years and two retirements later. Michael Jordan is finally going to miss another NBA game because of an injury. 
Jordan had fluid drained from his right knee Monday and will miss the Washington Wizards' game at San Antonio on Tuesday, the start of a four­game road trip. 
An MRI revealed no serious damage to the knee, so Jordan might return for Thursday's game at Houston. 
"My body is sending me mes­sages, and I need to listen,"Jordan said. "I hope to be ready to play on Thursday." 
Jordan hyperextended his knee during a preseason game, and this was the second time he has had fluid drained from it. He has been bothered by soreness and swelling in the knee -on top of the tendinitis he has felt in both knees since he resumed workouts earlier this year. 

At 38, Jordan has barely been 

able to practice for more than a 
week. When he does, he can't 
make it through the entire ses­
sion. 
Jordan is averaging 24.8 

points and 38 minutes per 
game and is shooting just 40 
percent, well below his career . 
average. He also leads the 
league in shots taken and shots 
missed. 
"We're pleased with the results of Michael's examina­tion, "Wizards general manager Wes Unseld said. "Michael will rest the knee for a few days and continue his treatment so that he can return as soon as possi­ble." 
Unseld said that "Michael wants to play every minute of every game,"but that coach Doug Collins "will manage Michael's minutes in an effort to minimize the soreness in the knee." 
Jordan la.st missed an NBA game because of injury on March 5, 1993, also against San Antonio. It was the second of two games he missed while hos­pitalized with a foot infection. 
The wear and tear of an NBA schedule on Jordan's body seemed the biggest obstacle in his second comeback. He was slowed by back spasms and two cracked ribs as well as the knee tendinitis in workouts to get in shape over the summer. He has also been playing with a sore right wrist. 
Nevertheless. when he announced his return, he said he planm,d to play all 82 regular season games. 
Instead. he made it through the first 16 before having to take this break. On the court, he has been obviously slower than his old self and no longer com­mands regular double-teams. His jwnp shots have often been flat and short -usually the result of tired or injured legs. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Texas, USC going 
to Holiday Bowl 
Associated Press 

SAN DIEGO 
The Texas Longhorns will put on their best faces and head for Southern California in late December -to San Diego. not Pasadena. 
The No. 1 0 Longhorns (10­2), who blew a shot at playing in the Rose Bowl with their turnover-filled loss to Colorado in the Big 12 championship game. accepted an invitation Monday to play No. 20 Washington (8-3) in the Holiday Bowl on Dec. 28. 
It's a good matchup, even though both teams are coming off disappointing losses. Texas had its national championship hopes wrecked in its 39-37 loss to Colorado, and Washington was overwhelmed 65-7 by No. 1 Miami two week­ends ago. 
Texas coach Mack Brown put the best spin he could on a return trip to the Holiday Bowl, where the Longhorns lost to Oregon 35-30 last year. 
"Not many teams have a chance to win 11 games and finish in the top 10, and that's something we want to do," Brown said in a statement. 
Texas quarterback Chris Simms had three interceptions and lost a fumble against Colorado. In last year's Holiday Bowl, he threw four intercep­tions yet almost rallied the Longhorns to victory. 
Simms' performance against Colorado opened an old wound for Longhorns fans and Brown: the controversy on whether to play Simms or Major Applewhite, the school's career passing leader. 
Applewhite nearly rallied Texas to a win against Colorado with two touchdown passes. 
Regardless of how Texas' QB controversy plays out, Holiday Bowl officials are hoping for another exciting game. After lackluster games through most of the 1990s, the Holiday Bowl returned to its adrenaline-rush reputation when it started matching the Pac-lO's No. 2 team against the third pick from the Big 12 in 1998. 
In order, Arizona beat Nebraska 23-20, Kansas State beat Washington 24-20 and Oregon beat Texas by five. 
"We've got two teams with a mission," said Bruce Binkowski, the Holiday Bowl's executive director. "This could be a great game. It could be interesting. We want another last-second finish. 
"Hey, 8-3 versus 10-2, you can't beat it." 
Washington will play in the Holiday Bowl for the third time in six years. While the Huskies are 0-2 in the Holiday Bowl. their coach. Rick Neuheisel is 1-1. He coached Colorado to a 33-21 win over Washington in 1996. 
"We're excited about facing a team the caliber of Texas," Neuheisel said. "Washington and Texas have great football traditions and it's hard to imagine they have not played each other since 1979. It should be a big-time matchup for the Holiday Bowl." 

For1nna1cly, Ruben llcrnmcn's momma didn't lcl her baby grow up to he acowboy. He's part of the 

_. .grnup of minority and women leaders across GE re,ponsihlc for ol'cr $301\ in annual re1·cn11cs. By ch awing on different pcrspcctivr.1, backgrounds and experience, CE is the place where childhood dreams come true. For more infonnation about GE, visit us at W11w.gc.com. 
Making dreams become reality. 
s ors 
Cold Weather Experts 
•Wo bring good dling, lo lift. 


Tuesday, [\xember 3, 2001 The ObJerver . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 14 
========================================================================================~·-~~--~~ 



Tuesday, December 4, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS 
ND SOFTBALL 
Gumpf signs 5 recruits 
Special to The Observer 
The beginning of practice for the Notre Dame softball sea­son is less than a month away, but the next era of Irish soft­ball is off to a strong start after signing five standouts during the summer recruiting period. Head coach Deanna Gumpf has officially. announced the incoming freshman class for the 2003 season and the first Notre Dame recruiting effort under her leadership will be mea­sured among the top classes in the nation. 
Hight-handed pitcher Heather Booth, catcher/infield­er Mallorie Lenn, infielder/out­fielder Kellie Middleton, infielder Meagan Ruthrauff and middle infielder/outfielder Sara Schoonaert have all signed national letters of intent and will make up Notre Dame's softball class of 2006. 
"It is an awesome group of players and I am excited that this is my first recruiting class because I am very proud of it," . Gumpf said. "It is a very excit­ing time for our program. We had been watching these play­ers for a long time and some verbally committed early, which helped us compile a great class top to bottom." 
Right-handed pitching ace Heather Booth plays for Martin Luther King High School in Riverside, Calif., (the same hometown as current Irish all-star candidate Andrea Loman) and excels both in the pitching circle and on the vol­leyball court. The 2001 soft­ball team MVP, Booth received the team's Coach's Award and Scholar Athlete Award last year. She posted 126 strike­outs over the course of the 2001 season with a 1.60 ERA and also batted .398. 
"Heather is the whole pack­age," Gumpf said. "She has 
great mechanics and has 
worked with one of the best 
pitching coaches in the coun­
try. She also throws hard, 
fields her position well and is 
an outstanding hitter." 
Mallorie Lenn hails from 
Pacifica High School in Garden 
Grove, Calif. Widely regarded 
as having one of the best 
swings in the country, Lenn 
backed up her reputation by 
smashing a home run at the 
2001 summer league nationals 
off one of the top Division I 
pitchers in the nation. She was 
a 2000 NFCA All-American 
Scholar-Athlete and has 
earned both offensive and 
defensive player-of-the-year 
accolades during her career. 
"Mallorie is one of the best 
hitters in the country," Gumpf 
said. "She has great mechan­
ics and techniques at the 
plate. She works very hard 
and is just a phenomenal hit­
ter." 
Megan Ruthtrauff is a mem­
ber. of the La Serna High . School team in Whittier, Calif. She has hit over .300 every year of her high school career and has been a standout in ASA competition since she was nine years old. Her teams have finished no lower than fifth at each ASA national tournament in which she has competed. 
Last season as a infielder with 
La Serna, she hit .359 with 25 
RBI and earned two tourna­
ment MVP awards. 
"Megan is a determined and 
passionate person," Gumpf 
said. 
"She is very driven and plays 
that way each day. Her energy 
and drive shows in every game 
that she plays. She really gets 
after it and will be a great 
player for us." 
Infielder/outfielder Kellie Middleton will bring an impressive mixture of speed and power to the Irish lineup next season. She is a member of the Marist High School soft­ball team and owns most of the team's school records, including most homeruns, most stolen bases, most triples and most doubles. Middleton cracked nine home runs last season and is a three-sport standout (softball, basketball and track). Her speed {timed at 12.00 in the 100-meters) allowed her to steal eight bases in one game during her prep career. 
'.'Kellie is really going to turn some heads," Gumpf said. "She has power, speed, and a great arm. She possesses all the tools of someone that is going to get better and better at the collegiate level." 
The fifth member of the Irish class is infielder/outfielder Sara Schoonaert from Clear Lake High School in Houston, Texas. Also a member of the Houston Diamonds club team, she helped lead the team to a fifth-place finish at the 1999 AFA National Tournament and earned Freshman of the Year 
honors  on  the  Clear Lake  
squad.  
"Sara  is  Notre  Dame,"  

Gumpf said. "She is a great, great player who lives and dies with the University. She belongs here and will be a great addition to our pro­gram." 
With the Irish are coming off the most successful season in school history, Gumpf and her staff (assistant coaches Charmelle Green and Kris McCleary) were able to carry over the momentum of Notre Dame's stellar 2001 campaign into the recruiting season. 
"We knew we wanted to recruit some great athletes," Gumpf said. "We went out there thinking we wanted to find the best athletes we can. All five of these girls will have an immediate and lasting impact on our program." 
page 15 
HOCKEY 

Nielsen earns defensive honor 
Special to The Observer 

Notre Dame hockey defenseman Evan Nielsen has been named the Central Collegiate Hockey Assoc­iation's 
(CCHA) Defensive Player of the Weck for the week end­ing Dec. 2. 
Nielsen and his 


Nielsen

defensive t e a m ­mates held Lake Superior State to just two goals on the weekend as the Irish swept the Lakers 7-0 and 5-2. 
In Saturday's 7-0 win, Nielsen helped set up Connor Dunlop's eventual game-win­ning goal at 5:33 of the first period. He then followed that with his second goal of the season at 10:54 of the second period which gave the Irish a 6-0 lead in the game. The shutout was the first of the season for: Notre Dame and the first since Dec. 4, 1999. 
The Irish killed all 10 Laker power play chances in the game. 
The following night, Nielsen was +2 on the evening as the Irish killed off four more Lake State power play chances in the 5-2 win. 
For the weekend, Nielsen was +5 and helped Irish spe­cial teams kill off 14 consecu­tive power play chances to give Notre Dame its first ~ series sweep of the season. · 
For the season, the Irish captain has two goals and five assists for seven points and is +2 overall. 
With the weekend sweep, the Irish moved into a tie for sixth place in the CCHA with a 4-4-3 record in league play. Notre Dame is 4-6-4 overall for the season and 4-2-3 in its last nine games. 
The Irish return to league play this weekend when they travel to Bowling Green for a weekend series with the Falcons on Dec. 7-8. 
ULTIMATE FRISBEE 

Irish advance at Vandy Invite 
Special to The Observer 

The Ultimate frisbee club's men's and women's squads continue to improve as they advanced in the Vanderbilt Invitational this weekend. The women posted a 4-2 record, 

Delp brigbten tbe CbriStlllas of underprivileged 
local cbildren 

£ •·1 
witb Toys a,d Tales! '~ 
"' (.:-·
i ·-,. . 
. 
.h. 


Help bring some Christmqs cheer to the childt-en from the Center for the Homeless, Lq (qSq qe Amistqq, El Buen Vecino, and Hope Rescue Mission. Please purchase a toy and q book (preferably relateq to one another) anci cieposit them ( unwl"appec\) in the markec\ boxes locqtec\ in your c\oi,-m before the deadline ofDecember 9th. 
For more information, email Bo Rottenborn at Rottenborn.2@nd.edu 
Sponsored by Notre Dame Circle K, meetings Sundays at 5pm in the Library auditorium. 
opening with an 11-3 rout of host Vanderbilt. Meredith Shepherd scored repeatedly on diving endzone catches. 
The Irish dropped a tough 6­5 decision to Tennessee in the second round despite cont­nued the stellar defensive play of Alanna Lungren and Diona Rey. The club then handled both Wake Forest, 11-4, and Towson, 11-1 with relative ease, as the passing of Erin Fleming to Julie Schutte and Naomi Cordell accounted for much of the scoring. On Sunday, the club split a pair of rematches, defeating Vanderbilt 8-4 before drop­ping their final game to Towson. 
~ 

The men's squad enjoyed success as well, as they ran off l four straight wins on 
l

Saturday: An offense powered 
l

by Brian Carrigan and Jamie Klang protected the disc and l proved very effective in defeat­
l

ing Rhodes College, 13-8, i Indiana U, 13-9, Vanderbilt B, ' 13-3, and Nashville. 11-7. 
j

Sunday, the defense spear­headed by Cletus Willems shut down high powered Purdue 13-8, while Jim Donovan made some circus catches for scores. The Irish dropped the semifi­nal to a strong club team, Whine, 13-10. 
• i 
' 
enormous 
FLEECE 
Selection 
5minutes -~ 
{ram DUTPDSiT 

Campus ·t•Nil= 
Cold Weather Experts 

Coll 259-1000 far mare details 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, December 4, 2001 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Batteast earns rookie honor 
Special to The Observer 
University of Notre Dame freshman forward Jacqueline Batteast has been selected as the Big East Conference Rookie of the Week, the league office announced Monday. It's the first weekly award of Batteast's career, and she is the first. Irish play­er to earn the conference's top rookie award since Alicia Ratay garnered the honor for the sixth time on Feb. 21, 2000. 
,. Batteast, the 2001-02 pre­season Big East Rookie of the Year, averaged 17.5 points and 10.5 rebounds per game last week as Notre Dame defeated Army, 89-57, and lost to No. 16 Michigan, 78­
63. Batteast notched her sec­ond double-double of the sea­son in the win over Armv, fin­ishing with game-high totals of 18 points, 12 rebounds and four blocked shots -the lat­ter total tied for the most rejections by a Big East player this season. Batteast followed that performance up with 17 points and nine rebounds in Sunday's loss to Michigan. 
Notre Dame returns to action Thursday at 7 p.m. when it heads to West Lafayette for a battle with No. 10 Purdue at Mackey Arena. It will be a rematch of last sea­son's NCAA championship game which was won by the Irish, 68-66. 


Recruits 
continued from page 20 
'Tm very eager to see who they bring in first of all, then meet that coach and meet the staff and get a good.feel for them," said Hannum, who has a 4.2 40­yard dash time. "But like I always tell people, I picked Notre Dame for more than the coaching, and I'm 99.~9 percent sure that I'm going to be at Notre Dame. 
Offensive lineman Scott Raridon has planned on attending Notre Dame for a while, and has no plans of changing that decision either. 
"I definitely plan on staying with Notre Dame," said Raridon. "I want to play for Notre Dame.... Unless I really don't get i1long with the new coach. Rut the three top candidates all look pretty good to me." 
Even players who strongly liked Davie are still honoring their commitmimt to play at Notre Dame next year. 
"I really like coach Davie and I thought that I had a good relationship with him and the \Vhole staff," said Jake Carney, a saf"ety from Lexington, Ky. "But I'm still committed to the University because I didn't just commit to lhe staff, I committed to the whole pro­gram." 
Despite the comments from White yesterday, the football banquet. planned for this weekend was can­celed. The lmnquet was mainly used to cumulate the season, and also allowed recruits to understand more about the football program at Notre Dame. Due to this cancellation, players, like Olsen and Carney had their visits cancelled and moved to January. 
"I was planning on coming up [to Notre Dame for the banquet]," said Carney. "But after talking to some of the coaches, they deferred my visit to January 17-19." 
The possibility of Jon Gruden, Bob Stoops or Tom Coughlin being the next Notre Dame head coach has also played a major role in keeping the recruits from changing schools. 
"I haven't met all of [the top candidates for head coach], but I'm sure whoever is hired is going to a great job [at Notre Dame]," said Carney. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu. 
This_, 

807 Mass
"~ ..
""-!i!!'i'e //.

Week in 
:i, 
8:00 p.m. Lounge, Coleman-Morse Center

Campus Ministrv 
Freshman Retreat #38 
Sacred Heart Parish Center

Coleman-Morse Center • 6 3 1 · 7 8 o o 
Marriage Preparation 
Fatima Retreat Center

• ...._da_y_______ 
Campus Bible Study/CBS ~·urdav 
7:00 p.rn. 
Feast of the 

114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Fr. Al D'Alonzo, csc, Director Immaculate Conception 

_._,nesdav 


Coffee at the Co-Mo Spanish Mass 
8:00 p.m. 1:30 p,m_ Lounge, Coleman-Morse Center Zahm Hall Chapel 
Law School Mass

lnt~rfaith Christian 
5:00 p.m.

Night Prayer 
Law School Chapel

10:00 p.m. Morrissey Chapel MBA Mass 
7:00 p.m. Mendoza College of Business Chapel 

Ad . t L & C l Sunday, December 9t/1Ven eSSOnS arO S at 7:15 p.m. in the Basihca 
The Notre Dame Liturgical Choir, Notre Dan1e Women's Liturgical Cboir, Basilica Scl1ola, Notre Dan1e Handbell Choir and Nohe Dame Foll~ Choir will participate in tl1is service of advent n1usic and scriptur~s. . 
Advent Lessons and Carols 
7:15p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Rejoice! African American Mass 
10:00 p.m. Our Lady of Notre Dame Chapel Coleman-Morse Center 

_,_dav 

The Way Catholic Bible Study 
8:30 p.m. 331 Coleman-Morse Center 

UPS 
Campus Ministry Retreats • 631-6633 
NDE Retreat #69 
(February 1-3, 2002) 
Applications availa/J/e: 
Monday, Dec. 3 -Friday, Dec. 7 
114 Coleman•Morse Center 
Freshman Retreat #39 
(January 25-26, 2002) 
Applications available: 
Monday, Dec. 10 · Monday, Jan. 21 
114 Coleman-Morse Center 

---·--·--------­
-

Tuesday, December 4, 200 I The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Bayliss announces five signings 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame men's tennis coach Bob Bavliss has announced the signing of five incoming freshman for the 2002-03 school year. Patrick Buchanan, Shannon Buck, Eric Langenkamp, Sergey Leonyuk and Steve· Hoszak have signed national letters of intent to enroll at Notre Dame next year and join the lrLsh tennis team in the fall. 
'Tm really excited about this new group of people who will eventually, I believe, leave their mark as one of the greatest classes in the tennis history of Notre Dame," said Bayliss. "Each of these players has a great upside in his game with potential for signili­cant improvement. This class reminds me of the class of 1993, which when they were juniors, reached the finals of' the NCAA championships." 
Buchanan will join the Irish after graduation from Servite High School. A year ago, he was ranked 27th among United States junior players 16 and under. 
"Patrick has the reputation of being one of the toughest competi­tors in junior tennis," said Bayliss. "He makes you earn every point and has a terrific backhand. We feel very fortunate to land him." 
Buck was the fifth-ranked junior player in the U.S. last vear in the 16-and-under division and .is cur­rently ranked 32nd in the 18s. Buck is ranked 13th among American high school seniors. 
"Shannon is verv consL5tent and one of the best competitors in junior tennis," said Bayliss. "His game is poised for a step up as he looks to become more aggressive. His fundamental5 are very sound." 
Langenkamp is a senior at Scarsdale II.S. Langenkamp was ranked 34th nationally in the 16s last year and is currently No. 67 among 18-and-under players in the United States. 
"Eric's game really grew late last summer. He had strong show­ings in the National Junior Davis · Cup and the Nationals in Kalamazoo, Mich. He has showed signs of taking his game to the next level by playing up in the court and taking the ball on the rise," Bayliss said. 

Leonyuk is a native of Moscow, Russia, who now trains at the International Tennis Academy in Boca Raton, Fla. He has done well in International Tennis Federation junior tournaments and Bayliss expects him to play at the level of a top 10-to-20 junior in the U.S. 
"Sergey has a powerful and aggressive all-court game with a big serve and dominating fore­hand," said Bayliss. "We hope he can be an impact player. I normal­ly do not recruit internationally, but Sergey researched many schools and decided that Notre Dame seemed to be a great fit for 
h.
un. " 
Roszak comes to Notre Dame from The Pembroke Hill School in Kansas City. Last year, he was ranked 84th nationally in the 16s. Roszak recently won a designated sectional tournament in the MlJIA. "Steve has big weapons ­a strong serve and dominant fore­hand," said Bayliss. "He plays an aggressive game, which should peak in college. I believe his best tennis is ahead of him." 
BRIAN PUCEVICH/The Observer 

Irish forward Ryan Humphry makes a move against Army 
last week. Notre Dame takes on Indiana tonight. 

Davis 
continued from page 20 

running their record to 7-0 after an 82-55 point shellack­ing over DePaul last Saturday. 
On the other hand, the Hoosiers once again find them­selves in a bit of hot water with a record of 4-2 after suf­fering an upset loss against Southern Illinois, 72-60 last Saturday. 
"Just like last year, this game is very important for us. We've lost two games to schools from mid-major con­ferences," said Davis. "The jury is still out on us this sea­s on. This is our first home game of the season after being on the road. Another big per­formance from Tom Coverdale would be nice. Jared Jeffries needs to have a big game, but I expect all of our guys to play well." 
Last year, the Hoosiers out­rebounded Notre Dame 42-33, while Hoosier guard Tom Coverdale was simply unstop­pable. Coverdale easily pene­trated past Irish point guard Martin Ingelsby on his way to a career-high 30 points on 11­of-15 shooting. 
The athleticism of sopho­more swingman Jeffries could pose some problems for Notre Dame as well, but this year's Irish team is different. For starters, last year's Mr. Basketball from the state of Indiana, Chris Thomas, will now be responsible for shut­ting down Coverdale. The ono­on-one match-up between Thomas and Coverdale could prove to be the difference in tonight's game. 
Just as Thomas must play well defensively, Coverdale will have to contend with Thomas's quickness off the dribble. Thomas is averaging nearly 15 points per game, while his team-leading eight assists has been crucial to jumpstarting Notre Dame's balanced offensive attack. 
No longer able to rely on the departed Troy Murphy to gen­erate baskets. the Irish have spread the wealth offensively. Four of Notre Dame's five starters boast double digit scoring averages. 
Five of the lrish's seven wins have been by 27 points or more. Notre Dame head coach Mike Brey's squad is averaging 
88.7 points per game, and has limited its opponents to just 
56.4 points per contest. 
Most impressive for the Irish has been their strong play inside the paint. Senior Ryan Humphrey is having an unbe­lievable season leading the Irish with 23.4 points per game on nearly 70 percent shooting from the field. 
The Irish are much deeper this season, also. Brey now has the luxury of' going nine play­ers deep on his bench, allow­ing his starters to stay fresh throughout the entire game. Last season, only seven Irish players saw significant action. 
Davis is keenly aware of the lrish's potent offense. 
"Notre Dame will be the strongest team we have faced this year," said Davis. "Their big guys are extremely tough on the inside. They are an out­standing perimeter shooting team, also. We must play well defensively." 
This will be a critical game for Notre Dame as they face their first test in a hostile envi­ronment. Notre Dame current­ly holds a 12-game losing streak at Assembly Hall, dat­ing back to 1973. 
Notes: 
. 
This evening's game will be the second of a critical five game road trip for Notre Dame, who do not return home until Dec. 30 against Colgate. 

. 
This game also marks the first time the Irish will play on national television this season. The game will be televised by ESPN. 

. 
Notre Dame nearly cracked the top 25 the Associated Press poll, falling 23 points short of No. 25 Western Kentucky. The Irish ranked 27th overall. 


Contact Joe Licandro at licanrdo. l@nd.edu. 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, December 4, 200] 
Groden 
Dear Davie: An era-ending letter 
continued from page 20 
coaching at Notre Daine, that he is comfortable living in the Bay Area, that he wants to stay in the NFL. 
Yet he hasn't. And by not doing so, he's driving Notre Dame wild. 
There are many reasons why Gruden appears to be such an attractive choice for the [rish. His falher, Jim, was a position coach for the Irish under Dan Devine. Gruden grew up in the South Bend area, graduated from Oay High School, and i'> a huge fan of the Irish. In a diary posted on NFL.com, he said that he gets "chills" when walking around Notre Dame's campus because of the tradi­tion and the history. And his alarm reportedly wakes up every morning with the Notre Dame Victory March. 
Gruden's personality is also drastically different from Davie. Gruden is young, fiery, charismatic and energetic. He paces sidelines during games and his language on the field can only be described as color­ful. 
In the past. when looking for a new head football coach, administrators have usually selected someone much differ­ent than his predecessor. For example, the fiery Ara Parseghian was named coach following four dismal seasons under the disorganized Joe · Kuharich. 
Dan Devine was seen as someone calmer than Parseghian. Gerry Faust was supposed to rally the players that Devine couldn't. Lou Holtz was brought in to restore disci­pline that disappear~d under Faust. And Davie was hired to. ensure the academic integrity that had slowly eroded under Holtz. 
But there are several things that could keep Gruden out of South Bend. Gruden also has one year left on his contract with the Raiders. It is unknown if he has a clause that allows him to leave for a college head coaching position, but if he doesn't, Raiders owner Al Davis probably wouldn't let him go. 
Even if Groden is hired, with the Raiders in the NFL playoff mix, it is unlikely he would leave Oakland until the Raiders' season is over, which could negatively affect recruit­ing and the smooth transition White hopes will happen. 
And while the fans may think he he may be the ideal coach, he has to be interviewed by White. The athletic director wouldn't say what criteria he would use to evaluate the new head coach. only that he would have to fit some institutional profile. And Gruden has never been a head coach at the col­lege level. 
White said he already has a short list of candidates to replace Davie. but would not say who was on that list. 
"As soon as there's some­thing to report, you'll hear it from me," White said. UBut until you hear it from me, any• thing you might hear will be nothing more than specula­tion." 
And until White says some­thing, Gruden will remain at the top of the fans' list of potential coaching candidates. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 
Bob Davie got fired on Sunday. I'd be lying ifI said a coaching change hasn't been on my Notre Dame football wish list since sometime during my freshman year, way back in 1998. 
But, by him being the head football coach and me being some sort of hack sports writer. our paths have crossed numerous times, even though it's predomi­nantly just been on paper in my weekly ramblings. 
Now at the end of Notre Dame's Bob Davie era, I want to \\Titc a letter that gives some closure to the situation. Not for him, of course, because I don't think my witty critiques have kept him up at night. However, the topic of Davie has dominated this column for more than three years, so it's only fair, given his dismissal, that we wrap it up once and for all. 
Dear Coach Davie: 
First of all, I hope you and your family are doing well after an obviously disappointing day for all of you. 
If you've had a chance to glance through my column over the past few years, you know that I've long felt there was another coach out there better suited for the Notre Dame job. What has given me a right to say this? Nothing more than a little flare with a pen, a decent under­standing of the game, and a love of Notre Dame football, three 
~;£~~I
,,)l'.lt1/:flt .
.l;jjl,·
5 rninutes F,wn DUT'PCS'T Campus :1•X•Jii: 
. Cold Wearher Experts 


'CaU 259-iooo for moredetails , 

I think the saddest thing in all of this. Coach, is that it's really easy for us as fans to for­get you're just like us. Rabid criticism hurts. It hurts you. It hurts your family. It hurts your players. 
You become the "Notre Dame Football Coach," more a sym­bol, an untouchable image, than a person, which makes you easier to attack. I know I've at times been overzealous in my criticisms. maybe par­tially for that reason. 
Yet we all know that comes with the territory of being a public figure. You, somehow. seem to accept that better than anyone else I've ever seen. 
At the end of your press con­ference, you actually thanked the media, saying you under­stood the job we had to do over the past few years and just hoped that you had earned respect for how you had con­ducted yourself. 
Like I said, Coach, Notre Dame made a decision on Sunday that I feel was overdue. 
However, the delivery of the nows wasn't as exciting as I thought it would be a few years ago. 
For that to have been the case, there would needed to have been some lashing out, or maybe even recoiling in, on your part. We didn't see that because that isn't you. 
I don't see how anyone couldn't have respected Bob Davie, the man, on your last day as coach. 
Good luck. 
Email Ted Fox at tfox@nd.edu. The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
attributes not all that unique. 
Certainly, these three things don't come close to approaching your immense knowledge of the game of football, something I don't think anyone would dis­pute. 
Still, as the general public has countless times said -and you have rightly acknowledged ­football coaches arc mainly judged by one stat. 
"I think back," you said at your press conference on Sunday, "to what Ara [ParseghianJ told me wj10n I first took the job, and he said, There are a lot of things to worry about, but worry day, some different "expert," such as myself, was calling for you to be fired. 

I admire the way you refused to resign. While I think Notre Dame made the right choice, in no way should you have been coerced from stepping down when you weren't ready. You made the university do its evalu­ative job and didn't give it an easy way out. Maybe White didn't want to step up to a podi­um and announce the firing of a Notre Dame football coach. However, given your feelings, both on your ability to do this job and your love of football, that 
was the only 
your character as a coach. f<or that. we thank you and your players -our classmates -for all your work in representing us so well. 
However, as Athletic Director Kevin White said, academic and athletic achievement can coexist. Your charge to your players to start getting ready for next year now so they can have a great season shows you share this belief in their ability to win on the field. 
Unfortunately, this belief did not become reality often enough during your five years as head coach, especially against college football's better teams. 
That being said, I really respect the way you've handled this season, one in which every-about one thing, acceptable

You became the "Notre

and that's win­and respon­
Dame Coach," more a

ning.'" sible solu­No one can symbol, an untouchable tion. deny the academ­Your last 
image, than a person,
ic success and game
which makes you easier 

classy nature of against the guys in your to attack. I know at times Purdue on program, a Saturday
I've been overzealous in 
reflection first on (which
my criticisms, maybe

their great char­probably acter, but also on partially for that reason. seems like 
10 years 

ago now) really showed everyone a couple things, too. One-hundred-sixty­two yards of total offense and an almost complete reliance on defense and special teams reem­phasized why the program needs to head in a new direc­tion. 
But the fact that your team, with injuries too numerous to list and nothing to play for but a 5-6 record and pride, won 24-18, shows you never lost your guys or their commitment. 
And Shane Walton saying los­ing you and your fellow coach­es felt like a member of the team had died showed the closeness you had with many of your players. 
Did you know... Half ofall HIV infections are young Americans under the age of25 
Every minute, 5 young people are infected with HIV Ten million people ages 15-24 are living with HIV/AIDS AV\, est~V\A.atect :2.so,000 !jDUV\,g Amer~e,aV\,s are UV\,ctware tvic;tt thetJ ewe LV\,fected wLtltl tttv By 2020, AIDS will reduce the workforce in 15 countries by 24 million people 
"PlACING A FACE TO HIV/AIDS" 

featuring 

Debra Stanley 
and 

Bill Hatfield 
AIDS Ministries 
followed by a discussion panel 
Tuesday, Dec. 4> 6:30 pm Walsh Basement 
Dinner will be served 
Sponsored by Student Government, AIDS Awareness Club, and Minority Pre-med Society 
CROSSWORD  
ACROSS  34 People shoot it  62 One of the  
1 Prefix with god  for fun  Carpenters  
5 Start of a diary  35 Parched  63 Close  
entry  36 Lord's estate  64 Idle of the  
9Bona  38 Very  Python troupe  
14 Author Turgenev  41  Flamboyance  65 Skillful  
15 French clergyman 16 Bonehead  42 Rows 43 Reply to a captain  66 Pseudosophisti­cated 67 Intolerable smell  
17 Witty Bennett 18 No longer valid  44 What the devout have  DOWN  
19 Take in again 20 Immortality, of a sort  49 Linkup of several PC's 50 Nine, in Nantes  1 They're spotted in casinos 2 100-meter hurdles, for one  
23 Laid, as a floor  51 Slipknot loop  3  Gras  
24 Aborigine of Japan 25 Station launched in 1986 28 Treaty's aim 31 Docs united: Abbr.  54 Stamina 57111 will 60 Like a poor tennis player, frequently 61 Lawn mower maker  4 Completely 5 College near Charlotte 6 Coal-black 7 Mother of John Quincy 8 Freshwater  
minnow  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  9 Solidify, as plans  
L B  J  10  f1xe  "'°Puu1e--,,1-,by,.-,,Le._ona__.rd..,.,.,,W1~111a,-ma- 
ER A  11 Belittle, slangily  31 "let's Make  47 Venezuela  55 Well-groomed  
12 Help wanted  "  neighbor  56 Sling missile  
abbr.  32 Kind of toast  48 Owl  57 Jamaican  
13 _-Foy, Que.  33 With full force  52 Talked impolitely  music  
21 Harvests  37 Come to a halt  53 Weird  58 Rocket launch  
22 Filmmaker Lee  38 Tiny battery  54 Dance  site  
25 Actress Gibbs  39 Squeeze out, as  instructor's call  59 Wrath  
26 How to respond  a mop  




Tuesday, December 4, 2001 The Observer . TO DAY page 19 
RYAN 

FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED CUNNINGHAM 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------~-­
to an affront Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 40 Lens setting 

27 Color anew are available by touch-tone phone: 
42 Cop 

1 ·900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). B S temperature 45 It can be Annual subscriptions are available for the E A L tester malicious best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 __.__._R_G...._O_. 30 Somme water 46 Teachers' org. years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
29 Water 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
. 

Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year ... 
D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 

Name --------------------------­Address------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
HOROSCOPE  EUGENIA LAST  
CELEBRITIES BORN ON  order. If you lend or borrow  
THIS DAY: Jeff Bridges, Wink  money, you will regret it. Deal  
Martindale, Marisa Tomei, Tyra  with problems in a one-on-one  
Banks  discussion. If other people inter­ 
Happy Birthday: Don't allow  fere, you'll never resolve any­ 
anyone to mess with your goals.  thing. 0000  
If you concentrate on what you  LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22):  
enjoy and excel in, you'll do well.  Although it is important to speak  
If you are confident, you'll  your mind and defend your  
impress others. Your numbers:  rights, be careful not to burn  
3,5,17,29,32,36  bridges. Self-deception may lead  
ARIES (March 21-April 19):  you in the wrong direction. 00  
Use your willpower on daily bat­ SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):  
tles. You can find your way  Plan your day with care and take  
through a minefield better than  precautions. To avoid ending up  
most. Concentrate, delve into  in a quandary over trivial mat­ 
necessary tasks wholehearted! y  ters, be patient and considerate of  
and don't falter. 00  others. 000  
TAURUS (April 20-May 20):  SAG11TARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21):  
Take things in stride. You may  Deception regarding joint finance  
have difficulties with a friend or  is likely unless you stay on top of  
relative. Don't confide in anyone  transactions. Examine closely all  
today.0000  contracts and agreements that are  
GEMINI (May 21-June 20):  offered. 000  
You're likely to spend more than  CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan.19):  
anticipated if you go shopping  Your empathy and patience will  
for gifts. It's a better idea to  help distraught people who are  
spend a day of festive cheer with  unable to solve their own prob­ 
family or friends. 000  lems and make you feel good  
CANCER (June 21-July 22):  about yourself. 000  
Patience and understanding will  AQUARIUS (Jan. 20--Feb. 18):  
be required to accept changes.  Make sure all your personal  
Talk to a trusted friend about any  papers are in order. Problems  
issues bothering you. 000  with authority figures could lead  
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): A  to delays. Preparation and organ­ 
good friend will give you honest  ization are the key today. 000  
answers. Short trips or visiting a  PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): If  
distant friend will be more excit­ you are too good-natured and  
ing than you imagined. Alter­ accommodating, someone may  
ations to your appearance will  take advantage of you. Proceed  
help you feel better. 000  with caution as a trusted individ­ 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22):  ual may be trying to undermine  
It's time to put your finances in  you.000  

Birthday Baby: You're up at dawn and raring to go. You can keep any group hopping and entertained. You're fun-loving, generous and willing to pitchin for anyone in trouble. 
AFTER THE PURl>Ue-NOTRE DAME FIEUl GOAL CONTROVERSY. MEASURES WEJ:!E PUT IN PL.ACE TO ENSVRE THAT IT WOULDN'T HAPPEN ASAIN 

BILL AMEND

Fox TROT 
I'LL IM1SE 'YoU 10.  I'LL RAISE YOU 15.  I'LL RAISE "!'OU 25.  I'LL RAISE "l'OU 50.  I'LL RAISE You 100.  I'LL RAISE YOU 1,000.  MA"l'6E. USINC:, A DEC!< WITli ALL ACES 1SN'T AS MUCH FUN AS WE IMAGINED.  ON SECOND THOUGHT, MAKE THAT 10,000. I  


THE 

Campus Spurts 
OBSERVER National Sports 
. 
Fox Column, p. 18 . Michael Jordan, p. 13 

. 
Men's Tennis, p. 17 . Holiday Bowl, p. 13 

. 
Women's Basketball, p. 16 . NFL, p. 12


PORTS 

. Hockey, p. 15 
Tuesday, December 4, 2001 

FOOTBALL 
Man in demand 
Jon Cruden emerges 
as odds-on favorite to 
succeed Bob Davie 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Associate Sports Editor 
... 
Just two days after Bob Davie was fired a~ the head football coach, names are being dropped left and right about who could replace him. 
And no name is hotter right now that Jon Cruden. 
The current head coach of the Oakland Raiders appears to be the odds-on favorite to replace Davie, at least according to the average Notre Dame student. A sign banging on the north side of Alumni Hall read, "All I want for Xmas is Jon Gruden." 
And a poll on NDToday.com said 85 percent of the peo­ple who voted would select Cruden as the next head coach. The second place candidate. Bob Stoops, l).ad just five percent of the vote. 
While some rumors claim Cruden has already been offered a contract, vVhite said Sunday that was not the case. In fact, White said he hadn't approached anyone about the head coaching job. 
"I made a commitment to Bob that I would not contact anyone about this job until he had first heard from me concerning his status, and I have honored that commit­ment," he said. "I've made no contacts with potential can­didates or their employers before now, nor has anyone authorized by me, and I don't expect to comment on the contacts that we do make during the search." 
After Oakland's 34-31 loss Sunday, Gruden said he had not been contacted by Notre Dame. 
'Tm not going to sit here and speculate," Gruden told the Oakland Tribune aftenvard. ''I've got a great job and I'm proud to be here. That's all I've ever said. Everything else is speculation and rumor -I have not had any con­versations 'rVith anybody. Ifl did, I would tell you." 
But that doesn't mean he isn't interested. Gruden has had multiple opportunities to say that he isn't interested in 
see GRUDEN/page 18 


MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish run into reeling Hoosiers 
ByJOE LICANORO 
Sports Writer 
Replacing a legend is never easy. Just ask Indiana men's head basketball coach Mike Davis. At this time a year ago, Davis and his Hoosiers were reeling with a 2-3 record as they entered a pivotal road match-up against the then No. 10-ranked Irish. 
Loyal Bob Knight supporters were calling for Davis's oust­ing. criticizing him for not being able to effectively lead the Hoosiers the same way Knight had done for the previ­ous three decades, but Davis refused to allow his critics get the best of him. 
"The beginning of last year was difficult for the kids because of the circumstances of Coach Knight's departure," said Davis. "I didn't look at it like I was replacing Coach Knight. I looked at it as an opportunity to put my own stamp on the program and lead Indiana back to the NCAA Tournament." 
Davis and his team were in desperate need of a victory over Notre Dame to turn their season around. 
"We were 2-3 entering that game. Notre Dame was ranked in the top 10," said Davis. "We knew we would be in for a bat­tle, but our guys stepped up and played extremely well. That game was the turning point in our season." 
Despite the daunting task of succeeding Hoosier icon Knight, Davis did not wilt under the intense pressure and scrutiny associated with being the interim head coach at Indiana last year. The vic­tory over l'jotre Dame was the springboard for Davis as he led his team to a second-place finish in the Big Ten Tournament and another· birth in the NCAA tournament. 
In the process, Davis removed the interim tag from his job description and signed a contract as Indiana's p,erma­nent head coach. 
"I never compare myself to Coach Knight because I don't need to put any more pressure on myself," said Davis. "When you stop and look at Coach Knight's incredible numbers. you will overwhelm yourself. I have confidence in my ability to lead this team. I expect myself to work as hard as I possibly can to get this team back to the NCAA tournament. I want to build upon last year's season and win the NCAA Tournament." 
Last year, the Hoosiers defeated the Irish 86-78 at the Joyce Center, thanks to an incredible performance from point guard Tom Coverdale. 
This year the Irish arc hop­ing to return the favor when they square off against the Hoosiers tonight at 7 p.m. at Assembly Hall in Bloomington, Ind. 
The circumstances of this year's game are very familiar. Once again, Notre Dame has looked very impressive in the early stages of the season, 
see DAVIS/page 17 
Recruits intend to stay put 
. School official tells Olsen new coach to be named within 10 days 
By JOE HETTLER 
Spom Weiter 
When Chris Olsen went to bed Saturday night. he was set on attending and playing football at Notre Dame. On Sunday morning, things had changed and, perhaps, so had Olsen's decision. 
With the firing of head coach Bob Davie, Olsen had to rethink his col­lege selection process and do what was best for him and his football career. 
"I need to protect myself," said Olsen, who has rescheduled visits with Iowa and North Carolina State. "I don't want to get out [to Notre Dame] and meet the new head coach and have him say, 'We're only going to bring in one quarterback, and you can come here, but you're not a good fit [for the new offense]."' 
But Olsen was quick to point out that Notre Dame is still his first choice. 
"I still plan on going to Notre Dame as of now," said Olsen. 
While Athletic Director Kevin White did not set a timetable for hiring a new coach, Olsen believes the decision will be made soon. 
"I talked to an assistant athletic director [on Sunday] and he called my house and said [Notre Dame] would have a new head coach within 10 days," said Olsen. 
The other recruit that was rumored to be reconsidering attending Notre Dame was line­backer Jeremy Van Alstyne of Greenwood, Ind. But Van Alstyne told the South Bend Tribune yes­terday that he still wants to play for the Irish next fall. 
'Tm still planning on taking my official visit up there," said Van Alstyne. 'Tm disappointed, because I thought I'd be playing for coach Davie. But I still really want to go to Notre Dame. I just need to find out who the next coach will be." 
Aside from Olsen and Van Alstyne, none of the other recruits showed any signs of changing schools for next year. 
Defensive tackle Jamie Ryan said that there is no way he will change his decision and he is "still 100 per­cent committed to Notre Dame." 
Wide receiver Josh Hannum, from Wallington, Pa., said that while the change does somewhat bother him, it will not change his mind about attending Notre Dame next fall. 
see RECRUITS/page 16 


TS 
. Men's basketball at Indiana, Tonight, 7 p.m. 
OBSERVER 
. SMC basketball at Goshen, Wednesday, 7 p.m. 
online 

. Women's basketball at Purdue, Thursday, 7 p.m.AT AGLANCE . ND Swimming, Notre Dame Invitational, Thursday http://www.nd.edu/~observer 



