
Steel-y times ahead
PARTLY 


Thursday
CLOUDY 
A United Steelworkers of America official delivered the 2001 McBride Lecture Wednesday. 

SEPTEMBER 27, 
HIGH 64° 
News . page 3 
2001 


LOW 44° 
THE 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 23 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 




ND researchers study WTC debris 
de•bris from llw rnllapsPd twin dcterminn whelher the ruins rescue effort." he said. "Wo want to make sum tbern's
. Lab to call NY 

lOWl'rs nr Lhn World Tracfo posP. a health risk to rescuers The scientists tested for toxic no long-term clfocts."
officials today C:PnlPr. at the attack site or to nrntals and othP.r contaminants The men will phone• prelimi­
with dust analysis Prol"Pssors .linPsh Jain and Manhattan residents. in the grayish-white samples, nary results to N<'w York 
ClivP i\inal. both of thP "It's a good l'ewling that they according to Neal. today and will cornplt'te tests 
Univ1•rsity's rivil PnginPPring conUu·tPd us." Jain said of' offi­"Wr-were askrid to look at in lhP Notre Dame laboratory By JASON l\kfARLEY and gPologi(',d sr:iences cials at New York Cnin!rsily elemental abundances in the for at least another WI\Pk. Neal N~ws hli1,H d !\ pa rt m P n ts . s in r ,, Fr ida y lkpart.ment of' Environmental samples," Neal said. "What is said. Chemistry professor Al 
havn studi<'d samplns dcliv-Medicin1'. who last week in the dust ... that's what we Millnr may assist in further 
A lPa Ill o !' No l r f' IJ a m 1\ 1ir.-d from ground znro of tlw shippnd nirrn samples of Trade want to know." testing. 
n•sparrhPrs PXpr>ctPd 1IJ({ay to fal!Pn skyscrapPrs that werr­Center dPbris to Notn! Dame. "There were lots of rescue The rPsearrhers werP 
rontal'l :\!Pv\" York o!Tirials slru"k by lf'rrorisls SP.pl. 11. "\\'p, feel good that WP are workers and otb(:r people who 
with analysis ol' dusl and HPsults from tlw study will rnntributing something to thn inhaled the dust," Jain said. see DEBRIS/page 4 
__-_-_--:__-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_----=-=-=-=========================================================================================================== 
STUDENT SENATE 

Members eye 
dining hall upgrades 
By ERIN LaRUFFA 
Assnci,lfl' Nt..·ws Editor 

,\t its nw1•ting \VPdnPsday night. tlw Sludr'nl SrnatP discussPd dining hall issuns and possibl1• imprownwnts to Notrr Danw's nwal plan systPrn. 
St>wral sPnat.ors will lw nwPting with a rrpn•sPntatiw rrom Food S1,rvi1:r\s to discuss dining hall issuns. arnlrding to .-\lunrni sP1Ht­tor :\latl LaFratta. At that nwPting s,•rmtors will bring up many Df"tlw topirs disn1ssr\d on WPdnesdav. 
ExtPndi1ig North J)ining Ilall's hours is rnw sub,iPrl sPnators will bring up. LaFralla added. Stanford senator .-\ldo Tnsi s,tid that ollwr imprnvPmPnts rPlatrd lo '.\lorth will also bl' disnissnl. 
I low stud(•nts arP allowPd to LISP nwals on 
their nwal plans is 
anotlwr issur s1~na­
"You could go tors plan to 
eat dinner three acldrPss. 

"!Food SrrvicPsl
times (/'you 

rnstri1·.ts vou now 
want to, (f 

to having ·mP.als at you 're that n--rt,1in limr-s dur­ing the day," said
hungry." 
l,aFratta 

lnstp,ad. somp 
Matt Lafratta senators wnu!J like 
Alumni Hall senator studPnts to ·bl' ab!t, 
to us1~ three meals 
a day, but at any timP tlwv wish. 
"You <:ould go cat dinnnr thrnc times if you want lo, if you'rn that hung-ry," LaFratta said. Hr addrd that he would like students have the option of f'ating a meal in the din­ing hall and then grtting Grab and Co dur­ing the sanw meal p<\riod. 
Morrissnv smrntor Pndraic McD(wn10tt suggest0.d ;l!owing studf'nts to use one of their we•rkly meals ii' thl'Y WPn' taking a gm,st without a meal plan io the1 dining lmlL 
[ lowP-vcr. off-ntmpus scnatnr Matthew Smith point('d out that studrnts <·an aln,ady usn Flox Puinb to buy meals for thl'ir gw,sts. 
A major limitation lo rhanging meal plans 
see SENATE/pa11;e 1 

Journalist urges pursuit of dreams 
By LETY VERDUZCO 
News Wrira 

San d r a Guzrn a n . 
an Emmv Award­
winning .Journalist 
and formnr editor­
in-chiP!' of Latina 
magaz inP. Pncou r­
agP d studPnts in a 
lf'ctUrf' to follow 
tlwir dn•ams and not 
bt\ deterrPd bv the 
opinions of others. 

"No one has a 
rig-ht to tPll you what 
vour dr1'am is," she 
~aid. "If today l am 
111• r(' . iI' I t'o 11 () w C d 
my drPam against all 
odds. so can you." 

The lcctun•, 
"Latina Leadership 
in tlrn NP,v 
~1illenniurn." was 
nicknamnd 
"llispanil' I 01" by 
(;uzman. 

Guzman started 
f'rorn humblP. bcgin­ni ngs to bocomn a publishnd author ·and l'amous journal­ist. HPr book, "The Latina's Bible" will bP rcleasP.d Feb. 26 
by lfandom !louse. 

"I was not born 
with a silver spoon 
in mv mouth," she 
said_-"l was born 
with a plastic spoon 
in my mouth." 

Guzman was born 
in Puerto Rico and 
moved to New 
Jersey when she was 
9. discrimination. The most important challenge for Latinas is to locate the She came to this country speaking thing she said for Latinos is how to 'servant' button and to know when to 
no English except the few words of a get over their family. This is the first turn it off." 
childrr,n ·s song. She is the second in topic she discusses in her book. After getting over the sor:ialized 
her family to go to rnllege. Guzman's Guzman explained how Hispanic pull to serve, the Latina. Guzman 
l'irst job after college was a rer,ep­families could sometimes hinder an went on to emphasize what the next 
tionist in publishing house. up and coming woman. and last important thing-f'or Latina 
Emphasis was placed on not only She talked about machismo in the women was, to decided what she the obstacles she faced as moved Hispanic culture and how women wants to do and do it. toward hl"r drnam but at th<' ohsta­
were the ones who did all of the In a pre-lecture banquet, Guzman clPs shP l'aCl)d once slrn a1·hitwP-d it. domestic chores while husbands and ate dinner at Haggar Parlor with ShP talkl"d about the obsiac:les sur­brothers sit back. Saint Mary's faculty and students. rounding inlr.rracial dating and mar­"\'\'o !Latinas) are raised and riage and the reality or prejudice and sodalized to nurture," she said. "The 
see GUZMAN/page 4 


page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, September 27, 2001 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Victim of bike 
theft speaks out 
As some of you noticed, I wrote an fnside Column two weeks ago about my bike being stolen. Although it did really suck to have my bike taken away by the lock smashing devil-thief, I got over it. Some people don't have a bike, and it's not like the end of the world or any­thing. so my point wasn't to arouse pity. 
The point was that I was sickened at the way that some people lack the mutu­al respect for their fellow human beings and their property. Especially sicken­ing is that it happened no more than three days after the horrible tragedy of Sept. 
11. At a time when com­passion was at an all-time high among American citi­zens, some scoundrel saw fit to snatch a bicycle. 

However, this story doesn't end with me being bitter about bike thieves. I am bitter enough already from enduring three years of engineering, and I think that's enough bitter­ness for me. You may ask why I am no longer bitter. Well, it's because I have my bike back. The short talc I am about to share with you will probably not greatly influence your life, but the stupidity and audacity of this said bicycle thief is just too funny. 
1 was pretty sure a fellow student didn't steal my bicycle. I thought it was an outside opera­tion from the beginning, because seriously, what student carries around a hammer to smash bike locks off? My opinion has changed, because when I left work on Tuesday after­noon, my blue GT Outpost stood triumphantly against a column outside of DeBartolo hall, not 10 feet from where it was stolen. The only thing that was different was that the seat was cranked way high up, and a kryptonite U-lock graced the space between the frame and the back tire. 
I hope whoever stole my bike reads this. I hope that lock didn't cost you too much, you despicable scrub. I called Security, they came over. and we locked the bike up to make sure whoever stole it didn't come for it. Of course, the culprit never appeared, or if he did, figured something was up when he saw the huge chain on it and left quietly. So the officer took my bike back to security. and they're going to have the lock cut off with a plasma torch. 
Thief, I hope you had to walk very far that day. And then I hope you had a pebble in your shoe. I also hope you got a blister, and your shoes smell bad from the foot sweat. Then I hope that you pulled your groin, hamstring and ended up crawling back to your hole. In addi­tion, I also wish upon you a case of explosive colon pressure during a job interview, just for added spite. 
For those of you who have had your bike stolen, 1 feel very sorry for you, because I do know what it's like. If you own a coil lock, go out and spend the 15 bucks for a U-lock, because it will keep your bike infinitely safer, unless said thief plans to go out and purchase a plasma torch. Today, my fellow victims in bicy­cle larceny, I am triumphant. Keep an eye out for your bike. You may just find it. I wish you all better luck than myself in catching your thief. I guess that I'm just happy to have my bike back. 
Contact Adam Turner at turner.50@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


CORRECTIONS /CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for che highest standards ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make misrake11. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can conec.t our t:.rrur. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Pres,. All repro,foc1ion rights ate «served. 
THIS WEEK AT NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Thursday  Friday  Saturday  Sunday  
. Discussion: College  . Forum: Faculty reflects  . Concert: "WVFI Quad  . Concert: Vermeer  
athletics today, 8:15  on gender studies, 1:30  Hock 2001," 4 p.m.,  Quartet, 2 p.m., Sniie  
a.m., Rolf's Rec Center  p.m.. Room 119  North Quad  Museum Annenberg  
. Lecture: Mother of  ()'Shaughnessy Hall  Auditorium  
anti-gay victim speaks,  . Performance:  
7:30 p.m., Hesburgh  Traditional Irish folk  
Library Auditorium  band, 7:30, O'Laughlin  
Auditorium  

Compiled from U-Wire reports

BEYOND CAMPUS 
700 University of Maryland students left hornless 
COLLEGE PARK "The reason we can't let you safety," said Pat Mielke, director of University of Maryland students the resident life office, which deter­
in is safety. We just don't
living in the privately owned mines students' priority numbers for University Courtyard apartments haue any idea whether the Courtyard, during the meeting. expressed their frustration Tuesday there's structural damage or "We just don't have any idea night after being told they would not whether there's structural damage
not. Safety comes first." 
be able to return to their apartments or not. Safety has to come first." for days, maybe even weeks, after a Also, University Boulevard, the tornado ripped through the complex Pat Mielke main road to the Courtyard, is closed Monday evening, breaking windows, until at least noon Wednesday, mak­
Resident Life Office director 
destroying roofs and taking out elec­ing it nearly impossible for students tricity. to get their belongings. "We did not call the tornado to Ambling hopes to allow students to
know when students will be allowed 
come to the University Courtyard," pick up essential items from their
to go back to their apartments. None 
said Ryan Holmes, executive vice apartments beginning on Thursday
of the more than 700 residents are 
president of Ambling Companies, the and to permit students in less-dam­
allowed to pick up any belongings 
company that owns the Courtyard. aged buildings to move back in on
from their apartments or move their 
"Ambling is doing what it can." Friday, Holmes said. 
cars from the lot. Only medication 
None of the apartments in the In the meantime, University Police
and other necessary items can be 
Courtyard have power, phone or officers are assigned to patrol the
retrieved. 
data connections and officials do not area, Holmes said. 
"The reason we cannot let you in is 
BOSTON UNIVERSITY 
Alum killed in terror attack 
Judith C. Larocque, a Boston University College of Arts and Sciences alum and founder and chief exe-cu­tive officer of a Framingham-based market research company, died on Sept. 11 when terrorists crashed American Airlines Flight 11 into the World Trade Center in New York City. She was 50 and lived in Framingham. 
Larocque graduated from CAS in 1973 with a degree in sociology and ·attended graduate school at Clark University. She started her studies at the University of Massachusetts and transferred to BU in 1970. 
"She enjoyed the valuable education she received at Boston University," said Larocque's daughter, Carie Lemack. Larocque often contributed to the BU alumni fund, said director Coleen Resnick. 
Larocque was born in Boston and grew up in Framingham. 
She is survived by two daughters, Danielle Lemack. 29, of Chicago and Carie Lemack, 26, of Cambridge; and a sister, Diane Marshall. 52. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 

KENT STATE UNIVERSITY 
Loans lag behind tuition increases 
Tuition hikes are an annual affair at colleges and uni­versities. But the maximum amount for the most com­mon federal loans has remained stagnant since 1992. 
Nationally, available grant and scholarship money is dwindling in proportion to the loans students and their parents must take out to pay for school. · 
At Kent State, tuition has increased every year for the past 10 years, from $3,596 a year in 1992 to $5,598 in 2001, according to information from the University Budget Ofiice. That's a 56 percent increase. 
But since 1992, federal loan amounts have not budged. Stafford loans are the major type of federal student loans. The government last increased Stafford amounts in 1992, said Mark Evans, director of Student Financial 
Aid. 

In 1991, freshmen and sophomores could borrow $2,625 per year in interest-free (subsidized) Stafford loans if they had financial need. Juniors and seniors could borrow $4,000. In 1992, the government upped these amounts to $3,500 and $5,500, respectively. 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon.Thursday, Sept. 27. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
Os 50s 
FRONTS: 
.,,...... ........ .,...&.r 


C 2001 AccuWeaither, anc. COLD WARM STATIONAHY 

High Low Showera V,a Ai:,:ux.:iated Pr.ti&  Rain  T-,1orrn•  FlurrlH  Snow  le•  Sunny  Pt. Cloudy  Cloudy  
Allanta Baltimore Boston Chicago Houston  75 66 66 65 80  54 47 50 47 64  Las Vegas Memphis Milwaukee New York Philadelphia  98 80 62 66 66  69 51 47 50 52  Portland 70 Sacramento 50 St. Louis 76 Tampa 81 Washington DC 69  52 52 51 70 52  


Thursday, September 27, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Labor unions brace for change 
. Steelworkers chief says corporate neglect of values hurts industry 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Writer 

America's vital industrial Pcon­orny -and its national security -is suffering due to corporate neglrr.t of Anrnrican values. according to Leo Gerard, pn,si­d<int of' the Cnited Steelworkt-irs of America. 
Gerard's speerh. the 24th in the 
American manufacturing jobs in the last 12 months. 
Gerard stated that the corpo­rate culture's forus on profit has led to more steel being produced abroad. particularly in China and the former Soviet republics, sometimes employing child labor and paying sweatshop wages. I le explained that this foreign steel is l'reqtu~ntly "dumped" into American markets at prices that 
U.S. firms simply cannot compete with. This "illegally subsidized sled," said Gerard, has put "24 of the nation's steel companies into bankruptr.y in · the past 30 
months." 


Lloyd McBride Lcr.ture Series. focused on the contrast between the values of labor unions and "the global trad­ing regime," par­tir.ularly the World Trade Organization. 
In speaking of trade unions' valuPs. he referrnd to the heroics of union­ized l'irefigh le rs. police officers 

"You can't have national security without a strong .industrial economy, and you can't have a strong industrial economy without a strong domestic steel industry." 
Leo Gerard international president, United Steelworkers of America 
In speaking of a clash of "al­ues, Gerard alleged that the principles of sovereign gov­ernment are fre­quently subvert­ed by WTO actions. and bv corp or a ti on s·· lawsuits under the North American Free T r a d e Agreement. In referring to the WTO's closed­
and ·resew; crews in New York and Washington as examples of "compassion, caring, of working collcr.tively !'or the good of the community." Gerard contrasted this with thP declaration that "economics systems that are based on individualism" have rcsultfd in the loss of a million door meetings regarding trade policy, Gerard asked "What is it that they'rn hiding?" lie argued that lawsuits brought by corpora­tions against governments often sucr.eed. allowing corporations to overturn the authority of the countries in which they operate. Gerard further suggested that this pall of ser.recy has led to environmentally dangerous mea­sures that would not survive the light of day. 
Gerard encouraged his audi­ence, mostly members of the Unit.-d Steelworkers of America, to attend a rally being held in Merrillville, Ind., to mark the beginning of' International Trade Commission hearings. These pro­r.ec dings will gather testimony about the faltPring American steel industry, and its problems in competing with "illegally dumped foreign steel." The rally will begin at 5 p.m. along Broadway. Hearings will begin at the Radisson Hotel the following morning at 9 a.m. 
The speech was met with exceedingly positive reactions. Tom Hargrove, president of the United Steelworkers of America Local 1010 in East Chicago, agreed that «we're losing our ability to produr.e steel domesti­cally" and offered his expectation that thousands will attend the rally to "keep the issue on the table." 
In a question-and-answer ses­sion following his remarks, Gerard stressed the importance of American steel to the security of the Unitecl States. 
"You can't have national securi­ty without a strong industrial er.onomy," he said, "and you r.an't have a strong industrial er.onomy without a strong domestic steel industry." · 
Contact Matt Bramanti at bramanti. l@nd.edu 

DoweJl study earns SIF award 
Special to The, Observer 

A study r.oauthored by Glen Dowell, assistant profPssor of management at Notre Dame, has received the 2001 Moskowitz Prize for outstand­ing research on socially responsible investing. 
Administered by the Social Investment Forum (SIF) in cooperation with the Colloquium on Socially Responsible Investing, the prize includes a $2,500 award and acceptance of the author's study for publication in the Journal of Investing. 
The research, which was conducted by Dowell, Stuart Hart and Bernard Yeung, found that con­trary to conventional wisdom, big businesses that adopt strict environmental standards are reward­ed with higher stor.k market performance. 
Of the companies examined in the study, those applying their own strict global environment standard abroad have an individual value approximately $10.4 billion higher than those using less stringent U.S. standards. 
Suggesting that firms that employ high environ­mental standards are those that strive for eco­efficient production systems, the study "refutes the idea that adoption of global environmental standards by multinational enterprises consti­tutes a liability that depresses market value." 
Dowell earned his bachelor of commerce degree from the University of Alberta in 1989 and his master's of business administration degree from McGill University in Quebec in 1995. 
He completed his doctorate at the University of Michigan in 2000 and has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since January 2000. 
The SIF introduced the Moskowitz Prize in 1996. 
It is named for Milton Moskowitz, a top researcher on social responsibility and the coau­thor of "The 100 Best Companies to Work for in America." 

page 4 

The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 27, 2001 


Senate 
continued from page l 
is pricfl, ar,r,ording to Tesi. 

'They plan on people eating 17 or 18 meals a week on the 21 meal plan," he said, adding that significant changes to the struc­ture of' meal plans r.ould raisn the price. 
In other senate news: 

. 
The Senate votcid unanimously to confirm Nick \Villiarns, vice prnsident of the Class of 2004, a.s the sophornorn advisor to the frpshman class council. 


. 
Student Aclivities director Brian Coughlin announced that alhir seeing Notre Oame's collec­tion last Saturday, high schools in the Fort Worth, Texas area have· decided to collect rnonny for vic­tims of the World Trade Center attack at their football games. 


Student body presid<'nt Brooke Norton added that she receiv<)d a call from someone at Arizona State University, which is cur­rently considering a collection similar to Notre Dame's at its football game on Saturday. 
. Walsh senator .Jeanine Valles said that the senate's University affairs committee will be looking at transportation issues, particu­larly mrelation to vehicles avail­able through the C<1nter for Social Concerns (CSC). 
ThH vans currenlly available through the CSC are being used so extensively, Valles said; that they are ol'tcn all booked at cer­tain times. 
"Notre Dame really encourages students to branch out and get involved in the community, but getting access to vehicles is becoming a problem," said Valles. 
. Student discount cards will be available beginning on Oct. 9, according to Jonathan Jorisscn, chief of staff in the ollice of the student body president. Cards will be free or charge, and will entitle students to discounts at local businesses, iriduding Papa John's, Fun Tan and Molly Mc(;uire's. Student government will be distributing the cards at the dining halls and in 

. LaFortune. 
. At the next Board of Trustees meeting, the of'f1ce of the presi­dent has decided to address the issue of' student.<; moving oil cam­pus, .Jorisscn said. Before pre­senting the issue, however, stu­dent government will r.onduct research on Lhe topic. 

"We're going to investigate the paradox of' Notre Dame wanting peopln to remain on campus but needing them to move off because of housing space," said Joriss1m. 
Contact Erin LaRuffa at elaruffa@nd.edu 

Guz01an 
continued from page 1 

Conversation surrounding the dinner focused on what the Latina students or Saint Mary's, who were present at the banquel, wanted to do with their future. 
"There should be no ifs in your vocabulary. you have to decide what you want to do and do it," she told the stu­dents. 
Contact Lety Verduzco at verd8852@saintmarys.edu 
Debris 
continued from page 1 

Got news? 
unsure when or if test results would be released to the public. 
"We'll let New York University know the results first, and they'll make the call whether tlrny want to makr. the information publir," Neal said. 
,1'he civil engineering and geological sciences lab has a history 
Let Scott know. 
of conducting analysis in high-profile projects. 
In the past. the lab analyzed moon and meteorite samples. In 1996, Liniversity researchers examined wreckage f'rom the TWA Flight 800 explosion. 
The lab also has performed studies !'or the Environmental 
Call 631-5323. 
Protection Agency. 

Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley. l@nd.edu 
e MD AFTER FIVE 


Thursda..,, Sept. 27  Frida..,, Sept. 28  Saturda..,, Sept. 29  
7:30 p.m. 11 Because we call Notre  7:00 p.m. -10:00 p.m. Drop In  4:00 p.m. -12:00 a.m. WVFI  
Dame family ..." Mrs. Judy  Badminton, Rolfs  Quad Rock 2001, North Quad  
Shepard lecture in the Hesburgh  7:00 p.m. Choro na Feira,  7:00 p.m. Movie, Pulp Fiction,  
Library Auditorium. Reception  Hesburgh Center for International  DeBartolo 155* •  
following the presentation  Studies  7:30 p.m. SUB Movies: Swordfish,  
8:30 p.m. -10:30 p.m. Drop In  7:30 p.m. Movie, Swordfish,  DeBartolo 155*  
Lacrosse, Rolfs  DeBartolo 101*  8:30 p.m. -Midnight ND Express  
8:30 p.m. -Midnight ND Express  7:45 p.m. Hayride and Campfire at  Pool Room open, free billiards,  
Pool Room open, free billiards,  Bendix Woods, bus leaves  LaFortune Student Center  
LaFortune Student Center  Library Circle 7:45 p.m.*  8:45 p.m. Campus-Wide Scaven­ 
9:00 p.m. Acoustic Cafe, LaFortune  8:00 p.m. 807 Mass, Lounge,  ger Hunt followed by food and  
Student Center Huddle  Coleman Morse Center  movies at Welsh Family,  
9:00 p.m. Mod Quad Mania: Music  8:30 p.m. Tournament Fridays,  LaFortune West Entrance  
and Games, Mod Quad  Double Billards Tournament and  10:00 p.m. -1:00 a.m Open  
10:00 p.m. Movies: Swordfish and  free billiards, LaFortune Student  Karaoke in the Huddle, LaFortune  
Pulp Fiction, DeBartolo 101 and  Center Notre Dame Room  Student Center  
155*  9:00 p.m. Crafting Corner: Friend­ship Bracelets, Dooley Room,  10:00 p.m. Movies: Swordfish and Pulp Fiction, DeBartolo 101 and  
FridB'lr Sept. 28  LaFortune Student Center  155*  
7:00 p.m. Women's Volleyball vs.  10:00 p.m. -1 :00 a.m. Alumni  
Virginia Tech, Joyce Center Arena 7:00 p.m. Movie, Pulp Fiction,  Senior Club All Ages Dance Party. Free refreshments. 10:00 p.m. Movies: Swordfish and  This ad is pubUshed by the Student Activities Office. Programs subject to change without notice.  
DeBartolo 155*  Pulp Fiction, DeBartolo 101 and 155*  * All programs are free to ND students unless marked by an *.  

FOR ~ORE INFOR~ATIONr VISIT: w,vw.nd.edu/-sao/ 


ATION 
Thursday, September 27, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERV.ER WIRE SERVlCES page 5 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 

Italian prime minister causes stir: 
Bre.1king ranks with allies reaching out to the Muslim world, Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi on Wednesday said Western civi­lization is superior to Islam. He also said he hopes the West conquers Islamic civilization. He told a news conference, "We must be aware of the superiority of our civilization, a system that has guaranteed well-being, respect for human rights and -in contrast with Islamic countries -respect for religious and political rightc;, a system that has as its values under­standings of diversity and tolerance." 
Japan's military prepares for war: 
Japan has promised to help when the United States strikes back at terrorists. But unlike its past efforts at "checkbook diplomacy," Tokyo is preparing to put its military closer to harm's way than at any time since World War JI. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Economic trouble strains Congress: 
Fissures are opening between the Democrats and Republicans and also within each of them over measures aimed at reviving the stalled economy. Against GOP opposition, Democrats want to add provisions helping laid-off avia­tion workers to airline security legislation. Saying the money was needed to pay for war, Republicans muscled small domestic spending cuts through a divided House subcommittee Tuesday. They have also applied pressure to accelerate work on energy legislation that many Democrats oppose. In addition, partisan fights erupted this week over trade and gov­ernment benefits for unmarried partners. 
Virginia man linked to hijacker: A· 
Virginia man whose name and phone number were found in a car registered to one of the 19 suspected hijackers was ordered held without bond Wednesday. A prosecutor described him as an essential witness and "he may be more." 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 

Hoosiers fortify Marion: Security-con­scious city officials are barricading Marion's City Hall behind more than 100 one-ton boul­ders starting this week to stop potential attack­ers from driving up to the building. "We're doing our job, which is to protect the facility from any threat," Mayor Bill Henry said. City Engineer Pat McCarty said no recent threats have been made against the city. Other precautions include placing concrete-filled steel posts in sidewalks, McCarty said. They are expected to stand four feet above ground and six feet below. 
Market \'Vatch September 26 
Dow 8,567.39 -92.58 Composite
]~ Same: 


Volume: 
NIA
~ 176 

AMEX:  78620.  +5.74  
NASDAQ:  1,464.04  -37.6  
NYSE;  524.56  ..1.43  
S&P 500:  1,007.04  -523  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -2.94 -0.37 12.23 NASDAQ 100 (QQQ) -3.47 -1.03 28.67 AES CORPORATION (AES) -49.48 -12.€0 12.25 INTEL CORP (INTC) -3.60 -0.78 20.90 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) -2.88 -0.25 8.44 

Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
ln an interview set for broadcast a day after vot­ers narrowed down their candidates for mayor, Rudolph Giuliani said that ifNew Yorkers want him to stay on past the end of his term, he is available. 
It was the mayor's strongest indication yet that he may try to extend his stay at City Hall. It came during an interview taped Tuesday for Wednesday night's "60 Minutes II." 
In yet another indication of Giuliani's intentions, the Republican mayor contact­ed the Democratic speaker of the state Assembly on Wednesday, seeking sup­port in the place he would probably face the most resistance. 
"I am open to the idea of doing it," Giuliani said in the interview. "I don't know yet the right way or the right thing to do and I have to really consult and talk to the governor and other people that really have to have a voice and a role in figuring out how to do it." 
Asked if he was available for the job, Giuliani said: "Yes, I couldn't walk away from it and then I would feel that I was walking out on my duties and obliga­tions if I did." 
On Tuesday, voters gave billionaire media mogul Michael Bloomberg the Republican nomination for mayor and sent two Democrats, Bronx Borough President Fernando Ferrer and Public Advocate Mark Green, into a runoff next month. 
Giuliani is barred by the city charter from serving a third term. But riding a wave of popularity for his steady leadership since the World Trade Center attack, he has been urged by many New Yorkers to stay on and guide the city through the crisis. His aides are said to be exploring a way to extend his term or lift the two-term limit altogether. 
Only the state Legislature or the Democratic-led City Council can overturn term limits. While there has been support in the Republican-led state Senate, the Democratic­controlled Assembly, led by Sheldon Silver, has been cool to the idea. 
"While the speaker is not a supporter of term limits, he is uncomfortable chang­ing the rules," Silver spokeswoman Eileen Larrabee said. 
She said Silver told Giuliani he would bring it up with Senate members. No date was set for such a discussion. 
Republican Gov. George Pataki is among those who suggested voters should write Giuliani's name in during Tuesday's primary vote. 
Exit polls Tuesday night also showed that about 40 percent of Democrats said they would vote for Giuliani if he found a way to run in November, while 80 per­cent of Republicans pledged to back him. 

Bush, Powell welcome security talks 
to tackling the key issues that have phone to Arafat, Peres and Israeli Associated Press divided Israel and the Palestinians. Prime Minister Ariel Sharon. And. he said, the lives of ordinary Most of the Arab world has clam­
WASIIINGTON 

Palestinians could be improved as ored for a resumption of negotiations 
Secretary of State Colin Powell said 
well. between the two sides, hopeful for ter­
Wednesday the agreement between 
Under suicide attack and seeking to ritorial concessions by Israel.
Israel and the Palestinian Authority to 
screen out terrorists, Israel has Powell, in an Associated Press inter­
hold security talks was a hopeful sign. 
imposed tight restrictions on view Tuesday, said "it is an especially
Powell said the talks set for Friday 
Palestinians on the West Bank and in charged environment." 
by Foreign Minister Shimon Peres and 
Gaza. As a result, their economic con­He said the goal of the talks was one
Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat could 
ditions have suffered even though the Sharon and Arafat shared -begin­
lead to shoring up a shattered truce 
United States is providing hundreds of ning to implement the peacemaking
and to peacemaking moves proposed 
millions of dollars yearly. measures suggested by the Mitchell
by a panel headed by former Senate 
"I um pleased some progress was panel.
Majority Leader George Mitchell. 
made," Powell said. "I hope we can "It doesn't require Israel to be put
In fact, Powell said, the new cooper­
move rapidly." back on its heels," Powell said. "This is
ation between the two sides might lead 
Earlier, Powell spoke on the telc-what Israel wanted." 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 27, 200I 
Saint Mary's opens intercultural leadership center 

thing, to got women at the Colfegl' to comn and find out what C\VIL is,"lkrakshani said. 'Tvn spoken to lstu­dnnt body prcsidnntl Miclrnll1i Nagln and BO(;, and wt1'rp looking into ho\'v to gt:L tlw studl'nLs more involvnd." 
WPdrwsday·s Opnn I louse was primarily l'or !'acuity and the sludrmts o/' CW!L's two Fellows, Hichard Ya-nz and Marcia Maust. 
Ya-('Z holds a joint appointnrnnt with tlw English l>l'partnwnl and snrvns as writ1,r-in-rnsi­
dPnrn. 111• brings a wnallh ol' int('rt'.Ultural nxpnrinncns to Lim C:cnt1,r. having spent many years living in tho bor­dt1rlands of' tlrn Southwnst. 
Maust works with tlw Dnpartrnent or :\nthropology and Social Work. SlH: too contributrn, much to tlw cen­tl\ r, having spent 2S years outsidn of lh(i Unitnd Statns. 
Both frllows will lwlp d,~sign am! partir.ipatP in llw manv SPminars and work­shops that C'v\'IL hopes to sponsor. 
Many rampus f'ar.ully such as Dana North. dirnctor·or HPsid<:nr.P Lil'P, and TPd Billy. English profossor. canw to find out what tlw Cr.ntt>r will ol'for Uw Saint Marv's communitv. 
"fi'ml vr.ry happy with the turnout," Dc~rakshani said. 
Contact Katie Rand at rand8903@saintmarys.edu 

Interested in "running your own business" in a challenging fast-paced environ­
ment with unlimited growth opportunities? Target headquarters is hiring entry 
level Business Analyst Executives for our corporate offices in downtown 
Minneapolis, Minnesota. 
Welcome to Target, one of the country's fastest-growing retailers. 
Target recruiters are visiting the University of Notre Dame! Please check us out while we are on campus! 
-Join Target executives Paul Burke (ND '98) and Christine Patka (SMC '99) for the Target Media Presentation on October 1st from 7:00 -8:00pm in the Alumni Senior Club -a casual presentation regarding Target, the Business Analyst in Merchandising position and Minneapolis, Minnesota -pizza, beverages, and prizes. 
· Join Target executives Cathy David (ND '85), Dave Gerton (Target team member), and Andrea Klee (ND '00) for the Target Prenight Presentation on November 5th from 7:00 -8:00pm in the Alumni Senior Club -a casual presentation on the specifics of the Business Analyst in Merchandising position -treats and prizes. 
-Join Target executives Cathy David (ND '85), Dave Gerton (Target team member), and Andrea Klee (ND '00) for interviews on November 6th in the Career Center, Interview Center in Flanner Hall. Sign-up via Notre Dame website! 
We had great success at the University of Notre Dame last year. Chad Maestas (ND '01), Margaret Mahoney (ND '01) and Molly Rost (ND '01) began their careers as Business Analysts at Target in August. EOE 

By KATIE RAND 
News '1<1rircr 

The Center for WomPn's InterCultural Leadership (CWfLl at Sai.nt Marv's o!H­r.ially opened with ._{n Open House for campus faculty and staff Wednesday af'trr­noon. 
The renter. located in Havican Hall. is in its first year of oper­a ti on after 
receivinla{ a "In order lo educate $12 million 
women to brcome 
Lillv Grant 

leaders in the 21st
I a s t 

Novernbc;r. century. one must The goal of provide them with the 
CWIL is to 

intercultural skills 
prepare women to necessary in an 
become lead­increasingly ers in today's 
interconnected world. " 
world. requiring an awareness Mana Derakshani 
and undPr­

CWIL interim director 
standing ol' thP-rolr of r.ulture and gender in soci­ety. 
CWIL will <'xamirw the relationships that evolvl:'s from different cultural groups roming into contart with Parh other. Particular emphasis will be placed on examining the leadership of women in a multicultural society. 
"In order to educate women to become leaders in the 21st rentury. one must 
provide them with thr inter­cultural skills n0cessary in an increasingly intercon­nected world, "said Mana Dcrab:hani. int.Prim director or C\'VIL "This n'cnplion is a way to gN pfioplP tn conw to Llw center, lind out \-Vilat it'~ all about. and hopnf'tllly thev'll !'rel ('.omf'ortabln to con;c again and loarn... 
TIH' directors of CWII, lrnpP to initiate a connection 
leadership 
with com­mun it v Icade rs·. providing-a 11 avnnun 
for schol­arly and pradic,d work in different fields. 
This will 
providn t h <~ opportu­n itv l'o r stLidcnts to lParn skills and 
exchange ideas. The CWIL is looking into llw possibility for studnnts to work on long term projt:cts with commu­nity lf'aders. extending tlwir growth and leadnrship skills. 
For now, however. the main focus is spreading the word about the CentPr. 
"Later in the semester we'll hold more student-ori­ented events. pizza or some­

Thursday, September 27, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
University dedicates plaque in front of Corby 

ing a plaque for several years. 
Notre Dame officials. including University Executive Vice President Father Timothy Sr:ully and Corby Ilall Religious Superior Father Bill Seetrh liked the idP.a. 
Tlw Committee, on Campus Environment signed off on the project. 
"The University was in favor of making thn information about Father Corby morn up to dah\," Seetrh said Wedn.-sday. 
Although the plaque was dedicated Tuesday. it has stood in front of the hall since early July. 
"J see people stop by all the time to see it." Seetch said. 
Corby served two terms as University president. from 1866 to 1872 and 1877 to 1882. 
The Corby statue is a replica of a bronze sculpture of the priest dedicat­ed in 191 0 on the Gettysburg. Pa.. battlefield. 
"Gettysburg's individual statues are of gem1rals. exr:ept President Lincoln. Chaplain Corby and a civilian," according to the inscription on the new plaque. 

Contact Jason Mcfarlcy at mcfarley. l@nd.edu 


By JASON McFARLEY News Ediwr 

Notrr Dame formallv dcdirniP-d Wednesday a plaqu<: th,i.t clarifies or corrects information inscribed on a 1911 statur\ of fornwr University Presidiml Father William Corby. 
The statLH' and plaque r.ommemo­rat!' Corby's service in the Civil War. when~ he was a chaplain for the Irish Brigade of the Union Army. 
Tim statue. popularly rr.l'orrcd to as "f,air Catch Corbv" because Corbv stands with one a;·m raised. actuallv depicts I.he man giving GP.ni'n;l Absolution during lhe Battl11 of G,"ttysburg. 
Thf\ plaquP lorawd din\ctly in front of the statue on tlw Corby Hall lawn was the project of Lou H(~ps and scw­eral Universitv administrators. 
"The old plaquP unrkrncath thr. statue made no nwntion of to whom he gave General Absolution." said Heps. of' Mcrrillvillt'. Ind., "and it was wrong that he gaw it beforn the bat­lie. It was a three-day battle. He gave it on the second day." 
Reps, an admitted history buff who gives rampus tours. considered r:r,,at-
Father Bill Seetch and Lou Reps stand next to a plaque dedicated Wednesday outside Corby Hall. The plaque clarzfies information contained on a 1911 statue of Father William Corby, aformer Civil War chaplain and president of the Univeristy. 
. 
photos by 

AMANDA HUGHES 

United Way caIDpaign to kick off today 
Campaign pledge cards will be
Special to The Observer 

mailed to University employees at r:ampus addresses on Monday 
Notre Dame's 2001 "Caring (Oct. l). During each week of the Close to Home" United Way campaign a prize will be award­Campaign Kickoff will take plar.e ed in a drawing of the names of' Thursday from 7-9 a.m. and 1 employees who have pledged an a.m.•2 p.m. on the concourse of annual minimum of $26. the Joyce Center. The prizes indude: 
Representatives of St. Joseph . Two press box tickets to the County United Way agencies will Notre Dame-Navy football game be in attendance explaining pro­Nov. 17. courtesv of the grams and services. Breakfast Department of Athletics and lunch will be served, cour­. Two sets of two ticket.., each to tesy of Notre Dame Food the Washington Hall mainstage Services. theatre season, courtesv of 
A special feature <Jf this year's Washington I!all · campaign kickoff will be a draw­. A starry night at the observato­ing to win the use of a 2002 ry on top of Nieuwland Science Hummer for six months. A new Building to view the universe. or incrnased pledge gift of $2 per courtesy of the Physics week will make employees eligi­Department ble for the drawing which . Two University Club member­includes vehicle insurance. ships, courtesy of the University Fifteen finalists will selert a Club Hummer ignition key after a . One Palm Pilot model mlOO, drawing at United Way's annual courtesy of the Orr Solutions meeting in Marrh, and the key Center that starts the engine at Notre . Dinner with Father Hesburgh Dame's UW kickoff event next for two winners and a guest. September will drive away in a court!-lsy of' Sorin's Restaurant Bummer. and the Morris Inn 
Door prizes will br, announced . One I-Omega Zip CD Drive, ev1~ry 10 minutes during the courtesy of the OIT Solutions campaign kickoff Thursday. Center Prizes have been donated by St. . An individualized house por­Michael's Laundry. the Hammes trait, courtesv of the School of Notre Dame Bookstore. :'Jotre Architecture · Dame Food Services. the Physks . One tree or bush for home Department. the Department of beautification. rourt'esv of' Licensing, the Athletic I.andsrapP Services · Departnrnnt. TIAA-CREF. . A bouquet-of-the-month sra­Patricia .-\nn Florist. and St. sonal f1owPr bouquet. C'OUrtPsy of Joseph (nunty L'nitPd \\'ay. \otrr' Irish Gard<'n Florist Dam<' has be('n a long-time par­. 'l\rn n•spr,·pcJ rnmpus parking ticipam in the rnunty's annual plac·Ps. rnurtPs,· of \Join' Dame L'nitPd \Vay ramp,tign, which SP('Urit\/l'olicP · l'unds :n agPnri(''.-> and :-n pro• . Crai1d prit.l': Two round-trip )..,'1'lll11~. ;,irli,w tirk,·:-'" any\\lWrP in the 
, rhi\., .,ttnr'....: I>1ht·r-.;1-\ 1·;:1n­;•,.,1,,r,,·r, 1 ,• ' 11itPd ,;:;;•·'-'. ,•r,ur­~J:ti1.!'1-1 ;~11ai :'"-,:;.:{1_:J{;!)_ \\ :111 ',,":• .; .',a1: -,,,n_'. ·:·r,,.\,·1 .,nd , .S. 
:,upr1i\:,,1.·1L1·~\' -t. :,H.1 1·:1t·i:l1v (i.l! . .._ t: 1 1·!•_ , •. t 1··· I •'. . ''\ :_I jl" :_, t"'.,:1 ·-t \\p;•;-.,. \ •i·'ti,;n,,... zlP;i ,·:i11i1,c1!~11 
P!....-ip!1!_\ i'r I) """r ,r -.i :·J'.·1 I ,ur·. '. ..T ;,• J:1J·1·,r...; \\ .!i :·,i ;,ii.._ I fJ il1 
:tiHi pl1·ci~,-..... ;h, ,.1~·~1."•,l .:.1:~u·1\ il1i' \11:;·, 1;;~::it· L nit,,,1 \\H\ \\,.•b ,·,m1p;11gn 11,tal. P\1·dgP tr,t;ds ar;, -.,it,· ,,t 1,,,11.11d.1•du1-u,1111 For pnsti>d \\('1•kly on signs at tht• lllt) r1· i111'11 ,· Ill ati O11 I) n \; 0 trP \lain Cuti• on ,'l;otr1~ Damp Danw·s 200 I Unitnd \Vay "Caring .\venue. the East Caw on Holv ClosP to Home" Campaign. con­Cross Drive. and outside o·r tact Marv Pat Fnrnand at 631­DeBartolo Hall. 3260 or fi1rnand.l@nd.edu. 
The Obsaver . NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, Sep rember 27, 200 l 
NBC exec faces choices after terrorist attacks 
financial news expertise
As.aciaced Press 
among all three networks. 

Pr inH~ -ti me N13 C I o o k e d 
l\iEW YOHK more libi a news magazine 
NBC News Prr,sidt)nt Neal than a rrnwscast. Shapiro had a uniqur rPspon­"Ge1rnrally, on a bn~aking sihility and opportunity in tlw story you havti your anchor go busy days following the terror­on as long as he r.an, do as ist attacks. 1-IH had not just many interviews as hP can, one network prime-time and you just lill up air time," schedule to program, but Shapiro said. "What I figured three: NBC. MSNBC and CNBC. out carlv was that vou'rc not 
He used tlw time for experi­going tc; have developments menting with different everv second." approaches. breaking down E11ch night. Sto,rn Phillips some walls at his news organi­taped a summary of' tlrn day's zation and remaining true to top news developnwnts that his roots as thr former was updated and repeated "Dateline NBC" executive pro­later on .~BC and MSNBC. The ducer. broadcast network concr.ntrat­
"This was a chance to r.d on lr.ngthicr. tap()d pieces rethink everything that we 'vr, in a storvieller format, like a done before,'' said Shapiro, Kerry sa'ncters report on the who was elevaLHd to his job l1ight training of the suspected this summer when predrr'.c"s­tBJTorists and a Jane Pauley sor Andrew Lack brcame NBC interview with the l'amilv of a president. man who likely fought hijack­
With three networks essen­ers on the flight that crashed tially following the same story in Western Pennsylvania. at the same time. Shapiro The changed approach was opted not to simulcast NBC's so subtle one broadcast nows coverage on the cable stations. expert confessed he wasn't as has been done in the past. 
MSNBC. the third-place 
aware of it. news president said it promot­
"That was a wise thing l'or ed toamwork among individ­Shapiro to do, not that I ual shows and llw networks noticed iL." said And rnw more limn any nvnnt in years. 
Tyndall. who owns a company. Tielcwision ,rnws roccivnd 
Al)T H,1s.1a,·,·h. that lnH:ks the high marks f'rom tlw publir for 
<'.onll~nt of 1wws programs. "IL its porformancP al'U\r tlw ter­
rr.ally  makes  rorist  
you look lik11 a broadcaster. instead or a  "Mle're going to spend whca I think we need lo  attacks. Shapiro said ho's novor  
cable ne L-work." Tvndall said, however, Im  cover the story. It doesn't mean that you write blank checks."  bc(1n prouder of his prof'es­sion. "Wn can't  
was  more  all  be clown  
impressed with ABC, heavily dnpPndcnt on  Neal Shapiro NBC News president  ther<' lifting rubble, but on() thing  


Petor Jennings as a sort ol' managing editor on the air. 

Shapiro conceded thern was some internal resista11n1 at first to his reliancn on "Dateline l\iBC' personnel and techniques in primP-time, instead of NBC's usual special events unit. 
Ultima.tcly, though, there was enough airtime to fill that ovPryone was involved. The 
cable news network that's spent much of its existence in an id1rn titv crisis. abandoned its usual ·taped prime-time lineup for traditional minute­by-minute reporting and inter­views. That gave NRC more flexibilitv. 
"If th~re was a live press confernnce that we thought was going to be good but not great, we could say, 'OK, MSNBC will stav with the Giuliani news conf;erence,"' he said. "It was a huge advan­tage." 
CNBC. the prime-time home of Chris Matthews and Geraldo Hivera, stuck with its talk format v,:hile spreading its 
Teach children the importance of compassion in the world. 
Teach them to make adifference. 

ACE has moved to the north side of Badin Hal! (the old Campus Ministry offices). 
Please stop by to learn how YOU can make adifference! 
eac 

¦ 

• FO~ 

i,...J ...
.-..i 

~ 
~ 
t 
~~ 
journalists 
can do is we can be thorn when people aro scarnd and nervous," Im said. "l'arl of' what helps Lo allay thnsc !'cars is IHtting pnopln know that tlrnv'rn informed." 
Shapiro rej~cts tlw convr.n­tional wisdom that this story has exposed the networks' lack of attention to interna­tional 1rnws and Lhat thny'll have to spend frnavify to make 
up for it. 
"I think wti did morn in for­eign news than people gave us credit for.'' lw said. "But this has changnd things. This is thP biggPst story there is and a largr\ part of it is foreign. We'ro going to be' <'Overing it and ~.iving it cwcrything w0. have. 
Ilow much NBC. and its rival networks. have to give is anotlrnr question, Nntwork budgets wnru tight lw,:ause of' a declining advPrtising mark,~t even bP/'on\ tho atuu·k. 
After tlrn attatk, NBC Chairman Hob Wright c•stimat­ed in Eh•rtronic Mndia that tho company lost $100 million a day hr.fore regular program­ming resunwd. 
Declining revenue and thH increased expensns of' a dornanding nHws story means Shapiro has budgnt-relat<'d headaclrns ahead. 
"Wf•'n, going to spend what l think wn Jl()r,d to ('.ovPr the story," hP said. "It donsn't mean that you writn blank t:h11cks." 

Looking for off campus housing that is close and convenient? 
TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
NOW LEASING FOR 2002-2003 SCHOOL TERM! 
Special "Student 10" Lease available 
•Mini Blinds Included 
• Balcony/Patio 
•Spacious 
Walk-in Closets 

•On-site 
Laundry Facilities 

•Central 
heat/Air 

•Swimming 
pool 

•Sand 
Volleyball 




Turtle Creek Apartments P: 272-8124 F: 272-8204 
Just East ofthe Notre Dame Soccer Field! Walking distance from Campus 
STOP BY AND PICK UP YOUR APPLICATION TODAY! 

'!'his ScrturclaB 
Harth t\t11td 4 p.111 • Miu.He 
VWlfflamSamtDm 

He9 Bai-cedes 
J».fJ. •uot11111/Kealesca11ce Space COid Helsa Preductlaas 
Fa:llliltt Sits1e •••a11d NCOttJ 11taraT 
Thursday, September 27, 2001 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Minn. unions plan strikes 
A,,ociatcd Press 
ST. PAUL, Minn. 
Two unions representing nearly 28,000 Minnesota state workers have voted over­whelmingly to go on strike, and Gov. Jesse Ventura has ordered the National Guard to be ready to fulfill vital func­tions if they do. 
The walkout deadline was pushed from Sept. 17 to Oct. 1 because of the terrorist attacks, which also have tem­pered some support for a strike. 
Last-ditch talks resume Thursday on two-year con­tracts for the workers. who make up more than half of the state work force. Their former contracts expired June 30. 
In land­slide votes a 


''.As an organization,
few weeks the -board ago, mem­I believe the drive is increases of 6.5 bers of the percent for each
still there. We 're not 
American of two years.
going to take a bad
Federation MAPE sought of State, package just because of 6.3 percent this County and year and 4.2
the national tragedy."
Municipal percent next Employees year. Council 6 Lyn Crosby The average and the MAPEmember gross salary for 
of Human Services. 
"As an organization, I believe the drive is still there. We're not going to take a bad package just because of the national tragedy," Crosby said. 
AFSCME member Paul Bissen hopes union leaders don't back down, but he sens­es uneasiness. 
"We've had a few people who have said maybe it's not appropriate right now." said Bissen. a road and bridge inspector for 17 years. 
At issue for both unions is pay and proposed changes to health benefits. The state offered across-the-board increases of 2.5 percent this year and next for AFSCME, and 2 percent a year for MAPE. AFSCME's last con­tract proposal sought across­
Minnesota Association of Professional Employees gave the go-ahead for strikes. 
But since the Sept. 11 ter­rorist attacks, even rank-and­file members who are pre­pared to strike acknowledge that a few of their co-workers are having second thoughts. 
"Members are kind of all over the board as to. whether we go forward or not," said Lyn Crosby, a 34-year state employee and MAPE member who works in the Department an AFSCME 

member is $30,000; for MAPE members, it's $49,300. 
If either union walks off the job, it would be the first major strike of' Minnesota govern­ment in two decades. 
The usually outspoken Ventura, who campaigned on a platform of fiscal austerity, says the state has made a fair offer. He hasn't injected him­self into the negotiations, say­ing he would rather leave it to his employee relations com­missioner. 
Ventura spokesman John Wodele said he's not aware of any law that would allow the governor to block a strike. 
Prison guards, who are AFSCME members, are barred from striking. But other services would be affected. 
A walkout would slow work in the state crime lab, and for driver's license tests and renewals. birth certificates, death certificates and adop­tion records. Processing of tax collections and disbursements 
· would have to be done by the 10 percent of nonunion work­ers in the He venue Department. Welfare workers who deal directly with recipi­ents are county employees. Janitors, groundskeepers, clerks and food service work­ers at some state colleges could be idled. State 911 operators, who take emergency calls from cell phones, would be eligible to strike but state troopers would fill in, the state's public safety commissioner says. Two weeks ago, about 1,000 of Minnesota's 12,100 National Guard members spent two days learning how to care for vulnerable patients in the state's five veterans homes and 108 community­based residences. They would offer basic help but not deliv­er medical care, said Maj. Garv Olson. st"rike dutv shouldn't dis­tract from any national call­up for possible military action abroad, Olson said. The prospect of war and the state of the economy make retired teacher Jean Folev, 66, uncomfortable with the idea of a strike. 
Women, Religion, and the African Diaspora 
A Two Day SYJnposium Convened by the ~can and African Am.erican Studies Program 
CCE/McKen.na Hall • University ofNotre Dame • 28--29 September 2001 
Friday, 28 Sepiem.ber 2001 6.4opm 
Keynote Address and Op~Reception 'Catherine in the Garden'; Clothing the Spiritual in an African Caribbean Religion Dr. Carol Duncan 
Deparlment cf Religion and Culture • Wilfrid. Lawier UlliversH:y • Wawrfoo, Ontario • Canada 
Saturday. 29 September 2001 
9:00 am 

Women and AJHcan-based Healin~ Traditions 
Dr, Yvonne Chireau Department ofReligious StudJei1 • Swarthmore College • Swarthmore, PA 
9.30 am 

Refiner's Fire: Doing Interdisciplinary, Analytical, and Critical Research from a Womanist Perspective while Dancing with God Dr. Cher.Yi Xirk•Dugpn Center for Women snd Religion • Graduate Theological Unian • Berkeley, CA 
10.15am 

Child~Man-iage in Ancient Israel 
Dr. Wilma A. B,uley Chrlstiau Theological Seminary• lndianapall11, IN 
10.45am 

The Emergence ofBlae.k Catholic Women in Chu.tcb. and Society 
Dt-. Jamie T. Phelps, O.P. Lo,rola Univars.ity • Chicago, IL 
11.18am 

Hermeneutieal Challenges: The Int.et-section t,fCultural and Biblical Wisdom in the Cmbbean Dr. Mignon R. Jacobs Fuller Theological Seminary • Pasadena, CA 
2.00pm 
Panel Discussion 

Women, Religion, and the African Diaspora-Future Trajectories for Research. and Inqu:i!y 
Co-aponaored b5" the GenderStndiea .Prog.ra:n:t and The Graduate School 
Death certificate process begins 
of Hazlet, N.J., who lost their
Associated Press 
only child, 32-year-old Astrid 
Sohan, a death certificate was 
NEW YORK a way to try to move past par­
Hundreds of people, some alyzing uncertainty. sobbing, filtered into a build­"I just have to find a way to ing on a Hudson River pier move on,"Mrs. Sohan said. Wednesday, many to begin the "There's no body, so at this heartbreaking process of point I don't even know what applying for death certificates to think. Yesterday was her for loved ones still missing in birthday, and we just stayed at the smoking ruins of the home. We were numb." World Trade Center. Dozens of lawyers are 
'Tm still hopeful that some­donating their help, and the how my wonderful wife will be city expects to help 500 to 600 found alive. but families a for the sake of day.
'Tm still hopeful that 
our children I Family have to some­somehow my members how sort wonderful wife will be were asked to through this," provide
found alive, but for the
said George names, Santiago, 37, of sake ofour children I addresses, Brooklyn. his have to somehow sort dates of birth, 
eyes brimming the circum­
through this.'-'
with tears. stances of 
More than their last con­6,300 people are George Santiago tact with the missing in the victim, and
Brooklyn resident 
crumbled tow­ers. Only about 300 people have been con­firmed dead, and officials have said that it could take months to remove and identify the vic­tims of the fiery disaster, and that some may never be found at all. 
Typically, it can take three years to get a death certificate without a body, a waiting peri­od used to prevent fraud. But the city is streamlining the process -and reducing the wait to a few days in most cases -so that victims' fami­lies can get death benefits and access to bank accounts. 
On Wednesday, the first day of the speeded-up process, some relatives said they were not ready to say goodbye and only wanted to see what the process was. A police officer at the gate said some families got as far as the door, then became overcome with emo­tion and left. 
Many of those in line clutched envelopes containing documents such as birth and marriage certificates, along with photographs. 
For Barbara and Clive Sohan 
the reason 

they believe the victim was at the trade center on the morning of Sept. 11. 
Steven Fischner, the city's criminal justice coordinator, said the lawyers would pre­pare an affidavit that would be presented to a judge along with one from an employer or airline vouching for the vic­tim's presence at the disaster. The judge would then send an order to the medical examin­er. The Health Depaftment would then issue a death cer­tificate. 
Astrid Sohan's father told of the three heartbreaking mes­sages his daughter, who worked at the reinsurance company Marsh & McLennan, had sent by beeper to a friend before disappearing. 
"The first message said, 'There's a fire and it's dark.' The next time she said, 'It's very dark and there's so much smoke. We're huddling in the corner.' And in the last one, she just said, 'Tell my boyfriend and my parents that I love them.' She knew,"he said, his voice trailing off. 
T_£_~TE OF INDI_£_ 
We have lunch buffet seven days a week; $5 for students 
. 

10% discount for all students and staff. 
. 

We are at the corner ofGrape Road E.r McKinely at K-Mart Plaza. 
. 

Phone: 254-9070 
page 10 The Observer . BUSINESS NEWS Thursday, September 27, 2001 
Layoffs hit WTC, 
travel workers 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
Carl Chambers' job crum­bled with the World Trade Center on Sept. 11, and since, he has relied on his union and government help to make ends meet. 
Chambers, 56, monitored elevators and escalators in the Twin Towers for contractor AMB, his employer for 27 years. He knew many, many employees in the towers, he said. 
"I lost my family and my friends and my job," he said. "I lost everything." 
Workers employed at or near the World Trade Center, by the airline industry and in other jobs related to trav­
el. are feeling "Almost everyone now Zandi said. reverberations is being touched by Congress of Sept. 11. approved a $15
unemployment. You
More than billion bailout 100,000 layoffs may not have lost last week for 
have been your job, but you know the airline 
announced in industry that
someone who has ...
the airlines includes noth­and related ing for the esti­industries, and Mark Zandi mated 100,000 many of those laid-off work­
Economy.com
workers are being let go without severance pay, health care and other benefits. 
"I think there's a recognition that there is a crisis upon us," said AFL-CIO legislative direc­tor Bill Samuel. 
Chambers' local of the Service Employees International Union represents 1,820 janitors, elevator opera­tors, security guards, window washers and tour guides dis­placed by the attack that sumer spending has been keeping it from tipping into a recession. 
"Almost everyone now is being touched by unemploy­ment," Zandi said. "You may not have lost your job, but you know someone who has." 
President Bush was consid­ering ways Tuesday to help laid-off workers. One option underdiscussion was to extend unemployment benefits to workers caught in the after­math of the attacks. 
The economic output lost from the attack is expected to amount to some $25 billion in September alone. The air pas­scnger and freight industry will take the biggest hit, losing almost $5 billion in the month, followed by the hotels and securities industries, 
ers. Organized 
labor is press­ing Congress for a relief pack­age that would include health care coverage, extended unemployment benefits and job training for displaced workers. 
A proposal by Sen. Jean Carnahan, D-Mo .. is aimed at laid-off airline workers, and would extend employment benefits beyond 26 weeks and provide job training, health care coverage and relocation benefits. 
Airlines, including Amer­ican, Continental, Northwest, United and US Airways, have cited clauses in some of their labor contracts that void sev­erance packages in emergen­cies, airlines and unions said. 
Unions say they will fight for the benefits workers are guar­anteed in contracts, such as severance pay, seniority bene­fits and relocation assistance. 
"It's not for one side or another to unilaterally deter­mine what that agreement means, says or which portions of it they'll honor or ignore," said International Association of Machinists spokesman Frank Larkin. 
Northwest Airlines (news/quote) announced Wednesday it would not pay severance to laid-off workers, then later reversed that deci­sion. 
AirTran Airways mechanics and other workers represent­ed by the Teamsters union have agreed to a shorter work week and reduced compensa­tion to avoid layoffs. 
The Teamsters also repre­sents airport food service workers, cargo handlers, curbside check-in employees and rental car workers, all of which are facing layoffs, said Teamsters spokesman Bret Caldwell. 
Dow drops 93; Nasdaq falls 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
Stocks fell back Wednesday as wary investors collected profits from Wall Street's first two-dav advance since Lhe Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. 
Analysts said the retreat was to be expected, given the week's earlier gains and the troubled economy. 
"Obviously we've had some slippage, but if we compare where we are today to where we were last week ... this isn't a significant selloff," said Michael Strauss, managing director at Commonfund. "The market is trying to bot­tom. The economy continues to be the battleground and we're getting some weakness associated with the terrorist attacks." 
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 92.58 to 8,567.39, giving back nearly a 
quarter  of  its  424-point  
advance  of  Monday  and  
Tuesday.  

The Nasdaq composite index slid 37 .60 to 1,464.04, while the broader Standard & Poor's 500 index was down 5.23 at 1,007.04. 
Many on Wall Street are hesitant to make any big com­mitments until they have a better idea of the form and timing of U.S. retaliation for the assaults on the Pentagon and World Trade Center. 
"You don't know what might happen Saturday, if that might be when retalia­tion or something happens, and how that will affect the market," said Chris Wolfe, equity market strategist for 
J.P. Morgan Private Bank. "So you don't want to take many chances." 
Those concerns, as well as 
profit-taking from Monday's 
big rally that sent the Dow up 
368 points, appeared to drive 
much of Wednesday's trading. 
Among tech stocks, IBM 
(news/quote) dropped $3.15 
to $91.30 and Sun 
Microsystems (news/quote) 
fell 25 cents to $8.44 -a loss 
of about 3 percent for each ­
after Goldman Sachs 
(news/quoie) cut their earn­
ings estimates on fears com­
panies will have less to spend 
on both firms' products as 
they recover from the 
assaults. 

Reaction to the economic 
fallout wasn't all negative. 

Delta Airlines gained 34 
cents to $24.86 on news of 
13,000 job cuts, about 15 per­
cent of its workforce, because 
of declining air travel follow­
ing the terrorist attacks. 

The other light buying was 
concentrated in sectors con­
sidered less risky in times of 
uncertainty, including phar­
maceuticals and consumer 
goods. Johnson & Johnson 
rose $1.18 to $54.12, while . Procter & Gamble climbed 
13 cents to $71.12. 

"Are you going to change 
your food consumption or 
amount of shampoo you buy 
because of the economy? No," 
Strauss said. "But you might 
change your mind about luxu­
ry items." 

Oil stocks prices were weak, 
but not directly because of 
terrorist worries. Despite 
some concerns that a Middle 
East crisis could hurt U.S. oil 
supplies and access, analysts 
said the sector fell on 
investors' greater fears that 
the economy might tip into 
recession, creating less 
demand. Valero Energy 
(news/quote) dropped 7 7 
cents to 33.41. 
Poor earnings reports also drove selling. Micron Technology (news/quote) plummeted $3.99 to $17.25, a 19 percent loss, after report­ing a fourth-quarter earnings loss twice what analysts were expecting. 
Market watchers attributed some of the decline to the usual end-of-quarter trading by fund managers seeking to adjust their portfolios. The third quarter ends Sunday. 
The market appeared to be more stable than it was last week, when the Dow fell 1,369 points. its worst weekly performance since the Depression. Although analysts agree more tough times are ahead for the markets, there is also some optimism. 
They believe the eight inter­est rate cuts and tax cuts so far this year, combined with billions of dollars in aid pack­ages for businesses affected by the terrorist attacks, will eventually stimulate the econ­omy. 
"This is a difficult environ­ment and it would be difficult for the market to put together several days of advance," said Robert Streed, portfolio man­ager at Northern Select Equity Fund. "Still, I think there's a very high probability that a month from now we'll be higher." 
Declining issues narrowly led advancers 8 to 7 on the New York Stock Exchange. Volume came to 1.52 billion shares, compared with nearly 
1.60 billion Tuesday. The Russell 2000 index fell 6.39 to 389.79. 
Overseas, Japan's Nikkei stock average dropped 0.5 percent. European stocks fared better. 

destroyed the World Trade Center and nearby buildings. 
Twenty-six of the local's members were among more than 6,000 missing and pre­sumed dead. Chambers said he was late for work on Sept. 11 and had not arrived when the hijacked jetliners struck the towers. 
Union leaders met with employers after the attack and negotiated for those workers to receive six months of health and supplemental unemploy­ment benefits. 
"I'm waiting and hoping for the best, but I need to keep working," Chambers said. 
Thousands of airline work­ers are getting pink slips with­out severance packages included in their union con­tracts. Carriers say there is a war emergency that justifies withholding those benefits. 
Many employees at hotels and restaurants are nonunion and part-time and weren't promised severance benefits. 
Layoffs could climb to 500,000 in industries related to the airlines and travel, said economist Mark Zandi of Economy.com. The nation's unemployment rate soared to 
4.9 percent in August from 4.5 percent, the biggest one­month jump in more than six years. 
More layoffs will take a toll on the economy because con-

COLLEGE REPUBLICANS Informational Meeting 
When: Thursday, September 27 
7:30 p.m. 

Where: Montgomery Theater, LaFortune Student Center 

Free Pizza Will Be Served 
Thursday, September 27, 2001 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 11 
IRAN SPAIN 

Officials won't help U.S. 
Associated Press 
TEHRAN 
Iran's supreme leader said in a blistering speech Wednesday that his nation would not par­ticipate in any U.S.-led coali­tion against terrorism, taking a tough line despite many Iranians' expressions of sym­pathy for Americans. 

Ayatollah Ali Khamenei called U.S. behavior "disgust­ing" and said in a state-run televisionaddress to the nation that Iran does not consider the United States "competent and sincere(enough) to lead any global campaign against ter­rorism." 
U.S. officials had publicly raised the-possibility of work­ing with Iran as the United Statesretaliates for the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. The prime target of anattack would be Saudi exile Osama bin Laden, who is believed to be harbored by Afghanistan's Taliban rulers. 

In the wake of the Sept. 11 attacks, reformist President Mohammad Khatami had expressed "deep regret and sympathy with the victims." Many Iranians signed a condo­lence book at the U.S. interest section at the Swiss Embassy in Tehran and some 4,000 of them held a candlelit vigil for the American victims -though hard-line vigilantes broke it up. 
But Khamenei -a hard-liner who outranks the ,president ­took a much tougher line against the United States in Wednesday's speech, rejecting Bush's declaration that nations had to choose between being "with us or terrorism." Foreign Minister Kamal 
"We are not with you," he Kharrazi reiterated his govern­said. "At the same time, we are ment's position on the need to not with terrorists. America is reach international consensus not sincere in fighting terror­to eradicate terrorism. But ism. It has other objectives. Straw, on the highest level America's hands are stained British visit to Iran since 1979. with all the crimes committed added that he had not brought 
by the Zionist  any message  
regime." said.  he  "Iran will not extend any  f r o Washington.  m  
America's  assistance to the US. and  0  t  h  e  r  
behavior, by expecting help but not  its allies in attacking the already suffering Muslim  Iranian offi­cials -both hard-liners  
earning  the  neighboring Afghanistan."  and reformists  
respect  of  - have  said  
other nations, was "disgust­ Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  the country opposes any  
i  n  g  ,  "  Iran supreme leader  unilateral  

Khamenei said. 
The United States has not had diplomatic relations with Iran for 22 years, leaving a gap that cannot easily be bridged even with crisis as an impetus. 
"Iran will not participate in any move under U.S. leader~ ship. Iran will not extend any assistance to the U.S. and its allies in attacking the already suffering Muslim neighboring Afghanistan," Khamenei said in his address to families of soldiers killed in the 1980-88 Iran-Iraq war. 
The United States says Iran sponsors terrorism by provid­ing weapons to Hezbollah fighters in Lebanon for their attacks on Israel. Iran stead­fastly opposes Israel's occupa­tion of Palestinian territories and accuses Washington of being biased toward the Jewish state. 
On Tuesday, British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw had praised the Iranian stance toward the attacks, after Iran's 


retaliatorv 

U.S. strike against Afghanistan, even though Iran has long opposed the Afghan leadership. Kharnenei's remarks were the clearest yet in response to sug­gestions that Washington may call on Iran to join a U.S.-led global force to fight terrorism. 
The United States wants Mideast support -from the use of military installations and airspace to intelligence -as it builds forces for an expected assault on bin Laden's opera­tions in Afghanistan. 
Secretary of State Colin Powell said 10 days ago that the United States was consider­ing seeking Iran's support and said "perhaps there are new opportunities" to wean Iran away from supporting terror­ism. 
Earlier, Richard Haass, head of policy planning for the State Department. told the BBC: "Iranians made a very positive statement in response to" the attacks on America. 


IS HOLDING AN OPEN CALL AUDITION AT 
Holiday Inn 213 W. Washington St. South Bend, Indiana 46601 
SUNDAY SEPTEMBER 30TH 12 NOON 
Auditions are on a first come first serve basis.. We suggest that you arrive early. 
European hunt for 
terrorists continues 
Associated Press 
MADRID 
Europe continued to crack down on suspected terrorists, making arrests in Spain, Britain and the Netherlands in an effort to link Osama bin Laden to the Sept. 11 terror­ist attacks on the United States. 
In Spain. police detained six Algerians allegedly linked to bin Laden, the chief suspect in the suicide jet attacks, and to a group suspected of plan­ning attacks on U.S. targets in Europe. 
In Britain, authorities cap­tured a French national who was allegedly involved in a plot to attack U.S. interests in Europe. France has already placed seven other suspects in the case under formal investigation, a step before being charged. 
Authorities say the eight all are believed to have ties to bin Laden. Evidence found during arrests in France last week suggest the suspects were part of a group scouting out European locations for attacks, with the U.S. Embassy in Paris a prime tar­get, French news reports said. 
In the Netherlands, police arrested an Iraqi man sus­pected of belonging to a radi­cal Muslim network planning attacks, Dutch news reports said. 
Authorities declined to con­firm the Dutch reports. They said the suspect, who was arrested Monday, faced the same charges as four other men detained in Rotterdam Sept. 13 for possessing fraud­ulent documents. 
In Sweden. police have placed some people under surveillance who allegedly went to suspected terrorist training camps in Afghanistan linked to bin Laden. 

The six people detained in Spain on Tuesday night and before dawn Wednesday allegedly belong to a dissident faction of the Armed Islamic Group, Algeria's most hard­line insurgency movement, Interior Minister Mariano Rajoy said. 
The six Algerians have not been charged but "evidently had serious connections with international terrorism and were financially connected with terrorist bin Laden's organization," Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar told reporters. 
The Algerians appeared to be responsible for sending optical, electronic, computer and communications equip­ment to colleagues in Algeria, as well as camping material to Chechnya, Rajoy said. Russia maintains that sepa­ratist rebels in Chechnya are Islamic extremists aided by foreign terrorist groups. 
Spanish police found forged passports and sophisticated computer equipment used to produce fake documents, and airline tickets for trips to Algeria and France, Rajoy said. 
The state news agency Efe identified the six Algerians as group leader Mohamed Boualem Khnouni, Mohamed Belaziz, Yasin Seddiki. Hakim Zerzour, Madjid Sahouane and Hocine Khouni. 
Meanwhile, in Britain, police got a 48-hour exten­sion Wednesday to continue interrogating two men arrest­ed in connection with the World Trade Center attacks. 
Lotti Raissi and Abu Imard were arrested on Friday, along with another man and a woman who have been released. 
THE 
OBSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 12 Thursday, September 27, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Oi.uing Hall. Noue Dame. IN 465'.>6 
EDITOR IN emu Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Pat Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarky 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Am.stadter 
SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAJNT MARYS EDITOR: Myra McGrilf 
PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimlxrly Springer 
AD DESIGN MANAl.ER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin 

WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner 
CoNTROllER: Kevin Ry-an 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
CONTACT Us 

OmcE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO.............631-7471 FAX. ............................................................ 631-6927 AUVERT!SING.................................... 631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF ........................................ 631-4542 MANAGING EDJTORiAssT. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS.......................................................... 631-5323 observer .obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT................................................. 631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAJNT MAR\"s............................................ 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB J\DMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as weU as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-co-the 

movies/music for 
minute forecasts 

weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 

online features for spe­
and races of print ads 

cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 

about The Observer 
articles published after 

to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's 
... College. Editorial contenr, including advercisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advercisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively a.s possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department edirors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily chose ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and mllSt include contact information. Q=tions rtgardmg Obsm,erpolicies should b, direct­ed to Editor in Chief Mifu GmnoUy. 

Discovering our inner rebel 
People have always tried to do things that set them apart from the rest of the crowd. Non-conformists for years have changed their clothes, hairstyles and hair colors in order to look different. 
The problem Amy Schill has always been that with every­one trying to look 
Dazed and
different, every­
Amused

one ends up look­ing the same. Because it's so easy to change clothes and hair, we've come to the point where there's only one really sure fire way to insure your individuality: endure intense pain voluntarily, and pay ridiculous amounts of money to do so. 
No, not Orgo. I'm talking about tat­toos and body piercings. Though no longer as rare as they used to be, tat­toos and piercings still are not quite in the mainstream. 
After intense sociological study in several different geographical areas, I've discovered that the reason tattoos are not even more popular is that they hurt a lot and scar your body for life. 
After conducting the same study with regards to body piercing, I real­ized that body piercings may not be on every man woman and child because it involves sticking sharp pointy objects into your skin. 
Tattoos and piercings aren't as easy to procure as thrift store clothing, bowling shoes and Buddy Holly glass­es, because it takes a special kind of person to get them, a special kind of sick and demented yet somehow cool person. 
Which is why I had to get one. 
Well, not really. Tattooing was never an option for me, because, well. having "Lafortune Building Managers 4 Eva!" sprawled on my back at age 70 didn't sound too appealing. 
But because body piercing is rela­tively painless and not nearly as per­manent, I thought this would be the safe way to realize my inner rebel. 
But. as always, my desire for approval beat out my desire to be a non-conformist. After running my eyebrow ring idea past friends and the entire ndtoday.com community and getting responses ranging from disgust to ... disgust, I decided pierc­ings weren't so cool after all. 
A couple of my friends, however, were still willing to endure torture in the name of individuality. One wanted a shamrock tattoo {because. you know, not many people here want that). and another friend wanted her navel pierced. 
Though piercing was no longer in the cards for me, I thought I could at least be rebellious vicariously by tag­ging along ... plus I was putting off writing this column. 
Because we are oh-so-non-con­formist, we decided to patronize Michiana Tattoo, the place where all Notre Dame students go for their tat­tooing and piercing needs. 
Yeah, not too crazy, I know, but at least we got to cross the state line to do it, making the activity feel .some­
what illicit, like gambling or getting extra deposit money on bottles. · 
My friend wanted the most sterile masochistic experience possible, so she asked numerous questions about cleanliness, infections, Hell's Angels meetings, et cetera, and indeed, the place was relatively low on the shady scale. 
However, the one thing my friends neglected to find out was whether or not they had time to actually tattoo or pierce them with their impeccably clean pointy sticks. 
After getting lost in Niles and mak­ing a U-turn in front of a ·scary look­ing NASCAR enthusiast we arrived at the place only to learn that all the employees were booked for the rest of the day. Apparently, all those wishing to thwart authority and throw caution to the wind need appointments. 
So our afternoon was_ pretty much a bust. My tattoo-wanting friend made an appointment for next week, but my piercing pal could not fit poking her­self into her upcoming schedule. 
So who knows when they get to be different from the pack, or if it will be anything different by the time they get it done. As for me, 1 have an appointment at Abercrombie I'm late for. 
Amy Schill is a junior English major. She can be reached at Schill.2@nd.edu. lier column normally appears every other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene 
Jason McFarley Matt Nania Andrew Thagard Graphics Meghanne Kristin Krouse Downes Production Sports Katie McVoy Lauren Dasso Lab Tech Viewpoint Ernesto Lacayo Teresa Fralish 
POLL QUESTION 
Are the new Dean's List requirements fair? Please e-mail viewpoint.1@nd.edu by Friday to report your answer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"You must be the change you wish to see in the world." 
Mohandas K. Gandhi Indian nationalist leader 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, September 27, 2001 page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
GUEST COLUMN 

End terrorism with unconventional means 
there? How much do we need to gain from taking sides before we do? 
There is a saying that goes: "Do not try to take down the Master with the Master's own tools." It is impossible to end terrorist attacks by using the same tactics. 
So I'm not scared about renewed attacks upon the United States. I'm not scared about a building coming down around my ears when it seems like I have more to fear from the world coming down. 
This endless circle of tragedies we will inflict upon 
each other will be never-ending. We must stop it before it starts. I do not mean war. 
We must not inflict more unnecessary grief upon the world and those who suffer in it. We are a large, strong, important government ­we do not need to "save face" by attacking a faceless shadow in the mountains of a for­eign country. 
We can be strong enough to make things right. To apologize for past transgressions, to protect ourselves better in the future and to show the world what true power and authority is. 
We need not use it to make the world kneel before us, for there are those who will never kneel -I like to think that we are among them -but why add thousands of Americans and thousands of victims of war to the growing list of the dead'? 
In this tragic aftermath, we cannot change the past and bring back those who have lost their lives, but we can protect the lives of those still living. 
We must reevaluate the things we learned in that moment of grace after the buildings had fallen. The silent moment of grace where what mattered most was forefront in our minds: family, friends, love and hope for peace. 
Do not let the deceptions of the media and the govern­ments hold the power for our future in their hands. They are incapable of' treating it with the tenderness it deserves. 
They will scream war and retribution because they know we are scared, and they know we want to hurt those who have hurt us. 
But as for the leaders of our country, they are surprisingly uncreative. There must be another way, and if we cannot think of one today, we must hold off for one more day and give our­selves time. I urge you all to make your 
voices heard. We should not let­ourselves be intimidated by the minority who want war 
just because their voices are so much louder than our own. 
Pain. fear and ignorance are often blanketed by strong emotions yelled at top vol­
ume. Do not let us send off our siblings, our parents and our friends to die forsomething we have no control over. We must always have the con­we have the vote, we have our voices and we will be heard. 
This column first rem on Sept. 25 in the Rutgers University newspaper, The Daily Targum. It appears here courtesy ofU-WIRE. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Students' hearts loyal to football team 
Tim O'Connor 
sen10r Dillon Hall Sepr. 2 5, 200 I 

NEW BRUNSWICK, N.J. 
I'm half Arab. My father is Egyptian, and in the past 20 
years he has tried to talk to me about my heritage and 
my ancestry, and I have denied him the privilege. 
At the time my family's background was more than 
inhibiting, it was stifling my sense of independence. I 
didn't want to be regarded as an 

Arab, because I wanted to be Nadia Elinbadi .regarded solely for :ny own being. 
I didn't want to know, so I turned 

a deaf ear when my father spoke to 
me of a past I should have Daily Targum 
acknowledged, yet didn't. I'd like to 
apologize to· my father today. I'd 

like to apologize for not understanding, and not listening. 
For not making the effort toward empathy, because 
today I suffer in ignorance. I apologize for my country. 
the great and wonderful Unitod States, which in all its 
glory and purity will never understand the need to lend 
an ear to others. 

I apologize for the American people, who in their igno­
rance do not even know when they are being led. Who 
arc sadly, like me, acting the part of a sheep. 
Terrorism is defined as using the acts of extreme fear 
in a manner of coercion. Our president has visited the 
leaders of foreign countries to "pressure" them for their 
support in aiding our cause. 

Asking France to not only support us in the fight 
against terrorism, but to refrain from trading with Iran 
and Iraq because of their prior involvement with terror­
ism. 

How about om own prior involvement? How about our 
current involvement? How does a country as liberal as 
ours, one that trumps freedom, cover up the fact that we 
have trained bin Laden 1n his warfare? 
How do we cover up the fact that we continually send 
arms and assistance to Israel to protect our interests 
Confront real issues 
Joanna Mikulski, in her article "Impending war is not worth the cost", has demonstrated an utter lack of comprehension of the war waged on the United States and the President's actions. 
Would that the rest of us could live in her ivory tower of blissful igno­rance. 
Ms. Mikulski, more than 6,000 innocent American citizens are dead and killed in such a vile and violent fashion that thousands of survivors will be denied the small comfort of retrievable remains to lay to rest. 
If America does nothing to wipe the scourge of terrorism from the face of' the earth, the attacks will continue. These terrorists want to destroy our nation, our way of life and every­thing we hold dear. You or your loved ones could be next. 
If sanctions and international embargos were effective tools with which to alter the behavior of despotic governments, then oppression and/or state-sponsored terrorism in places like Iran, Iraq, Libya, Afghanistan, North Korea and Cuba would no longer exist. 
The evildoers who falsely claim to defend Islam by committing vio­lence against the West are trying to repress and silence Western culture and freedoms and not the reverse, as Ms. Mikulski suggests. 
President Bush has not called for rapid strikes of vengeance. He has called for the application of our military might to the elimination of the global terrorism network which will take months and years to accom­plish. 
And this military effort will be in tandem with economic and diplo­matic actions that are being developed concurrently. 
Whether you like it or not, Ms. Mikulski, the sheltered, innocent "chil­dren of the '90s" do know war. You saw it Sept. 11. Burying your head in the sand of denial won't make it go away. 
We are not helpless. Evil will be routed. If you choose not to face it yourself, pray for those who do, like your classmates in the Notre Dame ROTC programs, the servicemen and women defending your freedom today and those like Lieutenant Colonel Neil Hyland, class of 1977, lost at the Pentagon, who died defending your freedom. 
Lieutenant Colonel Lynn Hamilton O'Connell, United States Army 
Class of '84 

Lieutenant Merritt Hamilton Allen, United States Navy (Ret.) 
Class of'91 Sept. 24, 200 I 
O
THf 
BSERVER 


Thursday, September 27, 2001 
page 14 
MOVIE FEATURE 

A timely 'Apocalypse' 
The anticipated theatrical release of'Apocalypse Now' arrives in the midst ofmourning 
By MATT NANIA Scene Movie Editor 

The current mood of the country is understandably not one befitting the release of a war movie. As people are praying for peace, as citizens are shocked by innumerable casualties, as even the slightest allusion to anything related to the terrorists attacks gets cen­sored, along comes Francis Ford Coppola's 1979 Vietnam War film "Apocalypse~ Now," updated, re-mas­tered and re-cut with 49 minutes of addi­tional footage. 
Released in early August in major cities and areas around the nation, South Bend theaters will receive its prints this Friday. 
It's hard to believe that any person is "in the mood" for a war movie given the fact that the U.S. is currently on the brink of war itself, but considering "Apocalypse's" pedigree -it won numerous awards and has been long heralded as one of the greatest films ever made -it would be remiss if cover­age was not provided of what is certainly one of the biggest and most-acclaimed releases of the year. 
A moviegoer's decision to see or not see the film will largely depend on their immediate feelings towards cinema of this nature, but there is no doubt that "Apocalypse Now" will attract audiences this weekend. 
Young audience members and film stu­dents who have previously only been able to watch the picture on video and DVD will finally get the chance to experi­ence the film theatrically. Older movie­goers, who may have seen it when it was originally released in 1979, will want to see the restoration and new footage. Perhaps the public at large, interested in momentous cinema not available since the '70s, will attend the screenings. 
On top of the release itself, "Now's" history adds even another layer of intrigue. At the 1979 Cannes Film Festival. where the film claimed top­prize, Coppola made a strange comment about "too much money and too much power" and slowly going insane during the production. Although it probably sounded pretentious at the time, to some extent that's exactly what happened. 
By 1976, Coppola's "Godfather" films had made more money than any film in history. and the director was flushed with power, youth and genius. He took on a novel -Joseph Conrad's "Heart of Darkness" -that even Orson Welles had abandoned, convinced that he could do it better. 
Originally scheduled to be shot over six weeks, the production ended up taking 16 months to complete and was punctu­ated with a number of crises. 
Coppola replaced Harvey Keitel. origi­nally cast as Captain Willard, with Martin Sheen two weeks into shooting. A typhoon (filming took place in the Philippines) destroyed some of the sets, causing a delay of several months. Sheen had a heart attack. Marlon Brando (who had been cast as Colonel Kurtz). threat­ened to quit. Another actor, Sam Bottoms, was on speed, LSD and mari­juana, as was Coppola himself. 
Needless to say, it's a rare thing when an artist goes mad, gets drunk on his own power and genius, undergoes such a daunting production, and still creates a giant-sized masterwork. 
Adapted for the screen by John Milius, "Apocalypse Now" is a magnum opus. As it begins, with a long, quiet shot of a row of trees, The Doors' "The End" slowly coming up on the soundtrack, heli­copters buzzing by almost noiselessly, and finally the row of trees being sud­denly decimated, the viewer knows he's watching something remarkable. For nearly its entire running time, "Apocalypse Now" is simply a fascinating film. 
Captain Willard's (Sheen) story sends him up a Vietnam river to find and kill the renegade Colonel Kurtz (Brando), but "Now" is more about the journey than the destination. Each stop along the way takes Willard and his cohorts, Chief, Chef, Clean (14 year-old Laurence Fishburne) and Lance (Bottoms), farther and farther out of reality. In one of the first scenes, crazy Bill Kilgore (Robert Duvall) screams at his men about surf­ing, gives a canteen of water to a dying Vietnamese (then snatches it away, dis­tracted by something else), and doesn't even bother to flinch when bombs go off a dozen yards behind him. 
As the film continues, things get more hazy and dreamy, as if the drugs are kicking in, culminating in a surreal and nightmarish finale. Some critics claim this last act doesn't work, where Willard hangs around the Kurtz compound wait­ing for something to happen. However, the illogical, unreal ending the movie gives us is the perfect solu­tion. Anything conventional would have been insulting. 
The experience of watch­ing "Apocalypse Now" has a tremendous sensory impact, most notably in the early battle sequence in which an Army Air Cavalry attacks an ordinary village overrun with Viet Cong. This sequence is both depressing (innocent chil­dren and civilians are destroyed by men who view combat with brainless machismo) and exhilarating (it is a brilliant show of logistics, firepower and the cinematic use of objects in open spaces). 
Even later, as the film slows down to a groggy march up the river, punctu­ated only by occasional stops for recreation, fuel, protocol and burial ser­vices, we are held hypno­tized by a force that we would be hard-pressed to explain. 
It is this spell that makes "Apocalypse Now" resistant to any kind of conclusive deconstruction. In that sense, it has a place among but a few works of the film medium. 
Now, in 2001, Coppola and editor Walter Murch have released "Apocalypse Now Redux" to the public with 49 min­utes "restored" to the film. These extra sequences -an extended French plan­tation scene, another surfboard incident, more time dedicated to the Playboy play­mates, and an episode showing Kurtz in the daylight -will hopefully be every bit as masterful as the rest of the film. But they have unfortunately been criticized of detracting from the flow of the origi­nal. 
Coppola's famous declaration at the Cannes Film Festival press conference ­"My film is not about Vietnam. It is Vietnam" -has an element of truth to it. Unlike the war films we are accustomed to seeing, "Apocalypse Now" doesn't comment on the war, or on war in gen­eral, so much as recreate its madness and desperation. 
As Kurtz says, "Horror has a face and a name, and you must make a friend of horror." The trek up the river, into the heart of darkness, is no more and no less than a journey to an epiphany, and not a happy one. 

Given how these past few weeks have altered our perceptions of violence and destruction -our epiphany came at the highest price -"Apocalypse Now's" message of terror seems all too pre­scient. 
For film enthusiasts, what's also notable about the release of "Apocalypse," even if it has been retai­lored, is how it will put all of this year's other offerings to shame. Come Friday, it will be the only veritable masterpiece playing in multiplexes, the only movie not made by marketing committees and, truly, the only film worth seeing. 
Contact Matt Nania at mnania@nd.edu. 


Director Francis Ford Coppola (far left) shot "Apocalypse Now" on location In the Phllippinnes, where bad weather and inhospitable conditions caused delays in the produc­tion. Robert Duvall (far right) and other actors contributed to the ultimate success of the film, which has gone down in history as one of the greatest war films ever made. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Thursday, September 27, 2001 
page 15 
MOVIE REVIEW 

'Party' doesn't do its characters any favors 
By JUDE SEYMOUR 
Scene Movie Critic 

"The Anniversary Party," the directorial debut<; of actors Alan Cumming ("Get Carter") and Jennifer Jason Leigh ("Single White Female"), is a voyeuristic peek inside a cou­ple's sixth wedding anniversary party. lnvited are cross­sections of Hollywood's petty, narcissistic and self­absorbed breeds posing as caring friends. 
Over the course of two hours. the pool of invited guests manages to deconstruct one another before even attempt­ing to rebuild their ov,n narrow-minded existences. 
The personalities stew in their self-constructed depres­sion for such duration that their words become trite and their characterizations worth none of the audience's empathy. In the end, each character is most memorable for the potential that existed within themselves that they never bothered to explore. 
"Anniversary Party," shot entirely on digital video, reports the story of Joe (Cumming), a novelist, and Sally (Leigh). an actress. They invite their closest friends over to celebrate their sLxth wedding anniversary, even if the last year has been tumultuous (they spent time away from each other in separate countries). 
Their choices for invites are more political than friendly. Joe invites Skye (Gwyneth Paltrow) over 
because he wants her to play the female "The Anniversary lurking just beneath the surface. Sally's lead in his directorial debut (an adapta­issues include her rejection over not tion of his latest novel). He also invites Party" being cast in Joe's new movie and her the neighbors over, Ryan (Denis O'Hare) a.ww r. fear that children will ruin her career. and Monica (Mina Badie), to assuage the ~Y'C Joe's uncertainties lie in his sexual current tensions over Sally's barking dog out of five shamrocks curiosities and consequent marital infi­and to avoid a possible lawsuit. The rest delity, his giant ego and a possible drug 
Director: Alan Cumming and 
of the ensemble cast is filled out by the addiction. The array of issues in such a
Jennifer Jason Leigh 
This theme, to expose the "fakeness" of people immersed in Hollywood, comes from a personal insight of Leigh and Cumming, using their debut as directors to speak their minds on issues that they felt were prevalent given their experience as actors. 
With certain stories, they succeed admirably. Joe and Sally's confrontation, in the midst of an ecstasy excursion and a dog search, plays as extremely personal. They final­
ly address all the issues that had been 
likes of Kevin Kline, John C. short period of time is dizzying to the
Starring: Alan Cumming,
Reilly, Parker Posey and viewer, leaving the audi~~ncc surveying Jennifer Beals. Jennifer Jason Leigh, Kevin Kline the wreckage of emotions long after the As the party begins to wind and Gwyneth Paltrow movie has moved onto another issue. 
down, Skye produces her gift: 16 doses of the drug ecstasy. If the alcohol had not already loosened tensions, Joe sees this as an opportunity for the group to become even more carefree with themselves and with each other. 
Unfortunately, the drugs seem to have the reverse effect: For the last half of the film, we wit­ness brutally honest confrontations. Joe and Sally confront their fears of abandonment and of hav­ing children. Mac (Reilly) and Cal (Kline) realize Sally's constant detachment while acting is ruin­ing the success of their movie. And Sally affronts her jealousy toward Gina (Beals), a former lover of Joe's. 
The intention of "The Anniversary Party" is to cut away the fleshy insecurities of these Hollywood friends and expose the bones of their true nature, hoping that the audience will applaud the movie for its tough method of eliciting true feelings. 
The scenes between Joe and Sally are where most of the film's character depth and emotions lie. Then again, it's no surprise that Cumming and Leigh are able to reveal such depth: Their characters are the movie embodiment of their real life personas. 
Unfortunately for its audience, "The Anniversary Party" does not develop the rest of its ensemble in the same man­ner. The directors, therefore, shed no new insight on Hollywood's "fake" breed and present no solutions to over­come the pettiness of the movie star bunch. This, con­joined with the film's overall depressing tone, made its conclusion feel empty and lackluster. 
After the events that transpired at the World Trade Center on Sept. 11, audiences now crave films that engage and promote the goodness of the hwnan spirit, films that will offer some hope for the future. Watching movie stars bicker and bellow horrific insults at each other is, at this juncture, terribly shortsighted. 
Contact Jude Seymour at seymour.7@nd.edu. 

Alan Cumming and Jennifer Jason Leigh (front) wrote and direct­ed "The Anniversary Party," an ensemble comedic drama. 
VIDEO PICK OF THE WEEK 
Tragedy weighs on every life in 'Hereafter' 
By JOHN DONNELLY 
Scene Movie Critic 

A bright yellow school bus slowly winds its way down a road through a wintry Canadian wilderness. An overprotective father follows the bus in his truck, waving at his children sitting in the back seat. The bus hits a patch of ice, crashes through a guardrail, and rolls down the embank­ment onto a lake frozen over for the win­ter. The ice cracks and the bus slowly sinks into the freezing water. The father watches on, stricken. 
"The Sweet Hereafter," a 

1997 film directed by Atom "The Sweet that do not have a troubled Egoyan and based on Russell past. The husband ridicules
Hereafter"

Banks' novel, recounts this every pair she suggests, list­lragedy, but deals primarily Director: Atom Egoyan ing the vices of each. But he with its aftermath. Starring: Ian Holm, doesn't know everything: His Overlooked in part because wife had an atiair with a wid­
Bruce Greenwood and
of the "Titanic" juggernaut 

Sarah Polley
that rolled into theaters the same year, not many saw the film. In both pictures, a horrible disaster lakes place which results iri a tremendous loss of life. However, the school bus tragedy hits a lot harder than the liner going down in the Atlantic, mainly due to "Hereafter's" strong character develop­ment. 
The film traces the characters in five dif­ferent sequences: Before the accident, after the accident, and during the accident itself. 
The most important sequence takes place after the death of the children. Set a short time after the tragic event, the sequence revolves around a lawyer (Ian Holm, "The Fifth Element") looking to file a class-action lawsuit on behalf of the par­ents who lost children in the accident. Holm's character, however, has problems of his own: His daughter has a drug prob­lem, and he does not know what to do. 
Holm visits several grieving couples who lost children, and the film provides a glimpse of a small town where not every­thing is perfect. 
The first couple he visits runs a motel and has a shouting match right in front of him. The wife suggests other couples the lawyer should talk to, with Holm noting 
that he needs good people 
ower who runs the garage 
next door. 

Another family has an even dakcr secret. A teenage girl (Sarah Polley, "Go"), who survived the accident but is now confined to a wheelchair, ended the incestuous relationship she had with her father as a result of the incident. 
A flashback sequence details the affair of the motel owner's wife and the garage owner. Polley baby-sits for the man's chil­dren while he goes off to the motel, She reads the children Robert Brovvning's tale of "The Pied Piper of Hamelin." In the story, special emphasis is placed on a lame child who is left behind by the Piper. Polley is later identified as this figure when specific passages of the story are recited in voice-over as she goes to bed with her father and as she gives her deposition. 
More importantly, the tale recounts the punishment of Hamelin for lying to the Piper about paying him. Their punishment is the loss of their chil­dren. Similarly, in "The Sweet Hereafter," the sins of the town are related to the loss of their chidren in the bus accident. 
Holm identifies with the people of the town because he too has lost a child.just in a different manner. Not a money-hungry personal claims attor­ney as one might expect, he is just a very sad man. He no longer knows his daughter, who has become a drug addict. In the film's last sequence, Holm flies from Canada to take care of his daughter. He sits next to a childhood friend of hers on the flight, and tells a story of how his daughter almost died from a black widow bite when she was three. Holm's eyes suggest that maybe it would have been better had she died then, rather than to sufl'er the life she leads now. 
"The Sweet Hereafter" carries a tremen­dous emotional impact. The bus sinking into the lake is horrifying, but takes place midway through the film. We dread seeing it, but we are more concerned with those still living. The p<-lople of the town have to continue on. The bus driver, who survived, speaks of the children as "her kids," using the present tense to describe them. The garage owner barely gets along after the death of his children. Holm and Polley seem ready to just give up on life at any moment. 

Egoyan juggles these different events perfectly. Ile deftly weaves from character to character to create an overwhelming sense of loss. Life goes on for the town after the accident, but just barely, and only because it has to. What else can they do? 
Contact John Donnelly at jdonod2@nd.edu. 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Thur:s-day, September 27, 2001 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 

Mariners rock records with win over Rangers 
Associated Press 

ARLINGTON, Texas 
With little left to prove in the regular season. the Seattle Mariners keep adding to their record-setting numbers. 
Winning on the road for an AL-record 57th time and sweeping a series for a team­record 15th time, Seattle defeated Texas 7-5 Wednesday to run its winning streak to three games heading into a weekend series against Oakland. 
Bret Boone increased his RBI total to 135 with a two-run sin­gle, and Ichiro Suzuki had three stolen bases and his AL­leading 230th and 231st hits as the Mariners won their 109th game. 
Before sweeping Texas, the Mariners lost four straight ­their longest losing streak of the season. That included three losses last weekend at Oakland. 
"This series, it was impor­tant for us," Boone said. "We went through a little lull after we clinched. That's not to say we went to Oakland and rolled over. but they came out and played great. We played terri­ble." 
The Mariners tried to play down the significance of these games against Oakland, in part because the teams won't play each other in the first round of the playoffs. 
"We don't need to prove any­thing or send a message," said Stan Javier. "We're just trying to play our game and hope our game is good enough to go as far as possible. It's not like a wake-up call or anything." 
Javier had the go-ahead hit, a two-run double in the fifth that gave Seattle a 5-4 lead. 
The Mariners trailed 4-1 
before a five-run outburst in the fifth that included the two­run hits by Boone and Javier. Carlos Guillen's run-scoring single capped the rally and chased Rob Bell (5-5). 
"I had good stuff when the game started," Bell said. "And then in the fourth, I threw a curve in the dirt and I just lost ii mentally." 
Gabe Kapler hit two solo homers for Texas, and Alex Rodriguez took over the AL lead and set a franchise record with his 49th homer. 
Paul Abbott (16-4) worked five innings for the victory and is 14-2 his last 21 starts. He gave up four runs and six hits with five strikeouts and three walks. 
Kazuhiro Sasaki pitched a perfect ninth -including pop­ups by Rodriguez and Rafael Palmeiro -for his 42nd save in 49 opportunities. It was his first save since Sept. 2. 
Bell gave up six runs and seven hits in 4 2/3 innings, struck out five and walked five. He is 1-5 his last 10 starts after going 4-0 in his first seven after coming to Texas from Cincinnati in a June 15 trade. 
Rodriguez put the Rangers, playing their final home game of the season, ahead 2-1 with his two-run homer in the third. 
The Rangers' franchise record for homers was 48 by Frank Howard for the Washington Senators in 1969, three years before the team moved to Texas. The 49 homers by Rodriguez also is the most ever by a major league infielder other than a first baseman. 
Red Sox 9, Orioles 6 
For Casey Fossum and the Boston Red Sox, what was sup-

Ray Durham had a two-run double and drove in three runs, and Kip Wells pitched well for six innings -aside from throwing four wild pitch­es -as the White Sox beat the Twins 6-3. 
Chris Singleton drove in two runs for the White Sox, who won for only the third time in 15 games against the Twins. 
Errors by right fielder Brian Buchanan and second base­man Luis Hivas, and a hesita­tion by catcher A.J. Pierzynski set up Singleton and Durham for Hl.31 chances. 
"It was nice to see that," Singleton said. "They've been the ones who've gotten the big hits at. crucial times against us this year." 
Wells (10-9), who was mak­ing his second start in a row after 15 straight relief appear­ances, went six innings, giving up three runs on eight hits and no walks. He struck out three. 
Keith Foulke worked the ninth for his 40th save in 43 chances. 
The Twins built a 3-0 lead after four innings behind RBI singles by Pierzynski and Rivas, and an RBI double from Pierzynski. 
Rick Reed (4-4) allowed only one hit through four, but Chicago got within 3-2 in the fifth on Durham's two-run double over the head of center fielder Torii Hunter. 
Singleton hit a two-run sin­gle with two outs in the sixth to give Chicago the lead, and went to second on Buchanan's throwing error. 
Royce Clayton then tapped the ball in front of home plate, and Pierzynski hesitated slight­ly before throwing in the dirt to first. Clayton beat the throw for a single, and by that time, Singleton had raced from sec­ond to score. 
posed to be a pennant race is turning out t.o be an extended tryout for next season. 
"He's up proving himself here," said leftfielder Brian Daubach, who hit a two-run homer to help the H.ed Sox beat the Baltimore Orioles 9-6 a day after Boston was elimi­nated from playoff contention. 
"We've still got 11 games left," Daubach said. "We want to make it a good two weeks to take something int.o next vcar." 
• D o u g Mirabelli 

and led the New York Yankees past the Tampa Bay Devil Hays 5-1. 
Pettitte. who threw only three pitches, was struck in the back of the left elbow by Ben Grieve's liner. 
X-rays on Pettitte were nega­tive, but the Yankees' top left­hander is expected to miss a start for the AL East champi­ons. Pettitte was not available after the game. 
"We're just pleased that everything is negative and we 
have him," 
said manag­

homered and er Joe Torre.
"We've still got I I games
had three or T o r r e
left. We want to make it a
Boston's 12 added that hits as the good two weeks to take Pettitte Red Sox might make
something into next 
snapped a another start
year."
four-game before the losing streak regular sea­and won for son ends.
Brain Daubach 
just the fifth "\,Ve're
Red Sox leftfielder
time in 23 games. Fossum (3-1) allowed five runs on five hits and two walks, striking out four in 6 2/3 innings. 
"He's got a chance to be our fourth or fifth starter going into spring training," Boston manager Joe Kerrigan said. 
Fossum had allowed only two hits and retired 14 consecutive batters before Tony Batista doubled with one out in the seventh and Casey Blake fol­lowed with his first homer to make it 9-3. 
Yankees 5, Devil Rays 1 
Even the winning pitcher was more concerned about the man he replaced than his own performance. 
"The best news is on Andy, there's no damage," said Ted Lilly, who replaced left-hander Andy Pettitte in the first inning going to have 

to wait until Andy can pick it up and throw it. We'll see how he feels. I haven't talked to our trainers," Torre said. 
The Yankees are scheduled to play Game 1 in the first round of the playoffs on either Oct. 9 or 10. 
In the event Pettitte was unavailable for the playoffs, Torre considered several options. 
"We have an experienced hand in Sterling Hitchcock. But it (Lilly's performance) gives you an option. Before this thing is over, we' II see if we can get him out there a time or two and see how consistent he can be," he said. 
White Sox 6, Twins 3 
For a change, the Chicago White Sox let the Minnesota Twins make the mistakes. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. co 3 1.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit alt classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
HOUSE FOR RENT: 1)9-br  Hey Britt • meet me at Keistler's  
LOST AND FOUND  $2400/month. 2) 5-br $1500/month. 3) 4-br $1000/month. Call Bill at  FOR SALE  OBSERVER DRIVER NEEDS TWO GA'S TO ANY GAME  PERSONAL  Deli tonight at 3:00 a.m.  
532-1896.  CALL JACK 674-6593  I am getting sleepy.  
LOST bookbag in South Dining Hall  Turtle Creek Apt. Opening  Northsore Condo, 1428 Marigold  Have: 4 WVU and 4 Navy tix.  SPRING BREAK  Jack, we're doing our best to get  
Tuesday. It's blue and white  1 Br $655 276-4809  way near ND, 1 bdr, 1 bath, LR, DR  Need: ND-BC tix and/or cash  Largest selection of Spring Break  out of herel  
--·  Jansport with Leprechaun patch. Please return to Laura Lacayo 4­ For rent: remodeled 4-bdrm house.  & kitchen with appliances. 1 car garage. $69,000.  Call Bob at 219-315-8964  Destinations, including Cruisesi Rep Positions, Free Drinks and  Chuk, rock your interview today.  
4273  3 blks. trom ND. Garage avail. 234­ Call Doris at 254-1772  BUY-SELL  Free trips available.  
2104  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS  www. EpicuRRean.com  Hey, so I think I'm gonna miss you  
FOUND: Small gold pendant with  52055 Old Post Lane  277-6619  1-800-231-4-FUN  this weekend.  
Virgin Mary. Found in parking lot  ROOM FOR RENT  Spacious 4 bdrm, 2-story on private  
behind Lyons. Kstekbe@nd.edu  ND GAMES  lane in Farmington Square. 2373  ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED  WANTED: SPRING BREAKERS!  So there was this girl and she  
$250 WEEKEND.  SF + professionally finished base- A.M. · 232-2378  Sun Coast Vacations wants to send  worked late at the paper and I was  
CONT BRKFST.  ment. Call Jack at 280-7730.  PM.· 288-2726  you on Spring Break to Cancun, the  like "Oh my God .. Weeeeeeeeee"  
CALL 272-0877  Century 21 Jim Dunfee Realty.  Bahamas, Jamaica or Mazatlan  
- FOR RENT  B&B 2-3 ROOMS HOME GAMES  '88 GMC SLE pickup truck. Looks good, runs great. Call Mark at 273­ ND tickets for sale Lowest prices. 232-0964.  FOR FREEi To find out how, call 1­888-777-4642 or email: sales@sun­coastvacations.com  Go" in the lightening. Go" in the rain!  
5 rooms for rent on foolball week­ 2 Ml NO OF CAMPUS  0449.  
ends. Many happy repeat cus­ 247-1124  WANTED -ND TICKETS  Spring Break Insanity!  I saw a girl who really missed her  
tomers. 2 miles N. of campus. 277­ 
 '98 Men's Schwin Frontier 19"  289-9280  WWW.INTER-CAMPUS.COM or  rommates and when she got back  
8340  For Rent various sizes apts. avail.  Mountain Bike. Like New. Call 277­ call 1-800-327-6013  to her dorm room she was like  
1-1/2 miles from ND  8208 after 3:30  Wanted· ND vs BC tickets. Please  Guaranteed lowest prices! All desti- Weeeeeeeeeeeee  
233·2098  
 call 4-1157  nationsl Fifteen years experience!  
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM- Northshore Condo, 1428 Marigold  Hey 249 - 
PUS  Way near ND, 1 bdr, 1 bath, LR DR  Buying some/ Selling a few extra  Will you please move your memo  
& kitchen with appliances. 1 car  N.D. Football Tickets.  Wanted. Representatives and orga­ board? Its in a VERY inappropriate  
mmmrentals.com  WANTED  garage. $69,000. Call Doris at 254­ 219-289-8048.  nizatoins, earn top $$$, build your  placel  
email: mmmrentals@aol.com  1772 for more info.  resume  
Need 2 tix, student or GA to USC  Its time to go home!  
STUDENT WORK  game. Call Noreen at 284-4417.  SPRING BREAK PARTYI Indulge  Weeeeeeeeeeeeee  
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and  $14.50 Base-appt.  in FREE Travel, Drinks, Food and  
Breakfast Inn has space available for tootba!Vparent wknds. 5 rooms  Vector Mkt. is filling PT cust.  TICKETS  USC: Loyal alum who missed the lottery needs 6 USC tix. Top Dollar!  ?Arties with the Best DJs and celebrities in Cancun, Jamaica,  Hang on to your little go" and strife  
with private baths, $80-$115,  svc./sales positions (5-20hrs)  Ask for Gary at toll free (888) 893·  Mazatlan and the Bahamas. Go to  Weeeeeeeeeeeeeee  
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  Flex. around classes. Scholarships.  6753 or Gehura@pegrehab.com  StudentCity.com, call 1-800-293­ 
Toll Road Exit ltl 07.  Cond apply  ND FOOTBALL TJX FOR SALE  1443 or email  Girls -we need to party this week•  
www.worktorstudents.com/np call  A.M. -232-2378  WANTED U2 TICKETS  sales@studentcity.com to find out  end. Dance or no dance!  
1-800-418-9487  M-W 12-5pm 282-2357  P M. • 288-2726  232-0964  more.  Weeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee  

Thursday, September 27, 2001 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
I CAMPUS MINISTRY
--------------------------r, 



Why Can't We Love Ourselves? 
¦ By Fr. Gary Chamberland, c.s.c., Rector of Keenan Hall 
:t: 

I am often moved by the commitment to service and justice I see in the students of this university. Darners embrace the Christian call to serve others, especially the poor and needy of 
..... 

South Bend, and strive to give back some ofthe blessings they have received. "Love God" and 
"'


Freshman Retreat #37 !November 9-10, 2001) 
Monday, October 1 through Monday, November 5 

114 Coleman-Morse Center 807 Mass 8:00 p.m. Lounge, Coleman-Morse Center NDE Retreat #67 Fatima Retreat Center Freshman Retreat #36 Sacred Heart Parish Center RCIA Inquiry Session 10:00 a..m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center Learning to Talk About Race Retreat for Student Leaders Sacred Heart Parsh Center RCIA Study Session 6:30 p.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center The Way Catholic Bible Study 8:30 p.m. 331 Coleman-Morse Center International Student Open House 9:00 p.m. 102/103 Coleman-Morse Center ¦ Presiders Basilica of the Sacred Heart Sat. September 29 Mass 5:00p.m. Rev. David J. Scheidler, c,s,c. Sun. September 30 Mass 10:00a.m. Most Rev. Daniel R. Jenky, c.s.c. 11:45 a.m Rev. Patrick Neary, c.s.c. ¦ Sunday's Scripture Readings 1st Reading Am 6: 1a, 4-7 2nd Reading 1Tm 6: 11-16 Gospel Lk 16: 19-31  "Love your neighbor" are more than pious platitudes here. They are challenges wrestled with by t:I students intent on deepening their relationship with God and hum~ity. Yet, as I watch students accept their Christian vocation ofservice to others, I am often n, saddened by the way they treat th~mselves. While finding God in the face of a child or a homeless women, they seem unable to see God in the mirror, unwilling to honor his greatness in the ::a created splendor of their own person, and uninterested in reverencing the divinity which dwells in their soul. Jesus did not leave us simply with command to love God and neighbor. He calls us :ta. a to "Love ourselves," as well. Self-love is the most difficult love ofall. Self-love is not self-centeredness; it does not make --t oneself the center ofone's world. Self-love is the harder task of accepting that one is beloved by ..... God. Self-love is coming to terms with the fact that God made us to be who we are and deeply desires that we develop the talents and gifts we have been given. Self-love· is a healthy and critical 0 assessment and acceptance ofwho we are. It is not the unhealthy fixation on who we are not. In reveling in the reality that we are made in God's :t: image and likeness, we no longer self-define Why have we ourselves by our grasp ofcalculus or the deeper nuances of philosophy, by our straight or kinkyseemed to embrace •hair, or our waist sizes and bust lines. We look "'•Jesus' command to beyond our imperfect humanity and see the lovable and beloved child of God. We do not •love God and others, deny the desire for developing the mind or but seem unablE~ to body, self-acceptance is simply not conditional upon that development.love ourselves? True love of self leads the Christian to a deeper awareness of the wholeness and unity of his or her person. This love, itself a gift, in turn, brings the Christian to a fuller sense of his or her own incarnation. He or she grasps that one body is intimately tied to the spiritual self -that the body and soul dwell in an inseparable oneness. This incarnation is the very means of living the dynamic impulse of love that surges though our _being. It is our only way ofspreading that love to others through our work, service, expression and touch. Our body is the primary organ of communicating and communing with other humans -themselves expres­sions of God's love. Our bodies as visible, concrete, tangible enactments of God's creative glory are temples -temples of God's indwelling Spirit. That Spirit impels us to approach the table of the Lord each week and consume the very flesh and lifeblood ofJesus that we might eact ever more fully in our thoughts words and deeds the very reality we eat. We dwell in God and God dwells in us. Why then are so many incapable ofreverencing this vessel ofholiness? Why do so many women on our campus despise their bodies and torture them with starvation, binging and purging? Why do so many students abuse these edifices of God's love and drink alcohol to the point ofvomiting, coma and near death? Why do men and women cheapen the beauty of the gift of human sexuality-by randomly sharing their bodies with people who neither care about them or for them? Why do we run our bodies to the point of exhaustion without providing proper nutrition, exercise or sleep? Why have we seemed to embrace Jesus' command to love God and others, but seem unable to love ourselves? Why in this place of holiness, love and Christian conviction is there so much self-hate? Notre Dame needs a revival of the Spirit. We must help each other to grow in love. Speak up and help others to see that they are lovable and loved. Challenge inappropriate behavior and don't sit idly by while friends and acquaintances harm themselves; love of neighbor requires us to act. "It's none of my business" is unchristian and cowardly. Be self-critical and accept the reality ofyour life and your behaviors. Go to confession and ask God's forgiveness for your sins, both those against others and against the temple of the Holy Spirit. Accept that forgiveness, move on and strive to love all people (self included) better. Together with God's help, we can move towards Christian perfection, become ever more completely the Body ofChrist and change the world. Bold hopes, yes, but realistic because it all starts at home. For all people can say, "It starts with me." C-M Campus Ministry  
Friday Night Mass 8:00 p.m. Hammes Student Lounge Coleman-Morse Center  


page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 27, 2001 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Cardinals coach copes with loss 
Associated Press 

LOUISVILLE, Ky. 
As he watched replays of the second hijacked plane crashing into the World Trade Center, Louisville coach Rick Piiino began counting floors, hoping that his best friend was still alive. 
Bill Minardi, the brother of Pitino's wife, was one of 670 employees of the bond broker­age Cantor Fitzgerald who died in the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. 
Minardi worked on the 105th floor of the north tower, the first one hit and the second one to collapse. 
"It was so painful watching those planes, over and over. I knew Billy was high," Pitino said at a news conference Wednesday. 
Returning to work this week has given Pitino the diversion he's needed. 
'Tm emotionally spent," he said. "The only solace I get is when I'm on that court for four hours a day. It's an escape from it all. 
"What I have to do is to immerse myself in it, day and night, so I don't think as much. 
The only thing you have to do is go overboard and immerse yourself in your work and your family and just pass out at night." 
Pitino, who was hired in March, said his new team sent him a touching sympathy card last week. He reciprocated by returning them to their usual exhausting workouts. 
"Fortunately, for the players, there is a 20-hour (per week} rule," he said. 
Pitino said the death of Minardi, his best friend since high school, won't change his perspective on basketball. 
He said that happened in 1987, when his 6-month-old son, Daniel, died from congenital heart failure. 
"(Basketballl is my passion, it's my professional life, but it's entertainment. It's always been entertainment to me since 1987. I know what sports is about ­it's about making us laugh, it's about good times together." 
Pitino said last week was a blur. 
"A week ago, I didn't know where my life was going," Pitino said. "You didn't know what to do, where to go." 
Pitino and his wife had waited for word from Minardi on the day of the attacks. but none came. The next day, the Pitinos drove to New York. 
They got false hope when Minardi's name turned up on a computer database that listed people working in the towers at the time of the attacks. 

Minardi was listed in critical condition, but Pitino found out through Cantor Fitzgerald's emergency hotline that the report was wrong. 
Soon after, Pitino learned that every employee who showed up for work on the day of the attacks had died. 
Pitino, who grew up in New York City, attended a memorial service for Minardi last Thursday. 
"The swing of emotions, think­ing you had a hope and a prayer, waiting for one Cantor Fitzgerald person to make it down," Pitino said. "It's just been unbelievable." 
He reminisced jlbout his friendship with Minardi through tear-filled eyes. 
"Joanne and I were trying to laugh about stories about Billy the other night," Pitino said. "Kidding around, I said, 'You know, I always loved Billy more than I loved you.' And she said, 'I've always known you loved him more.' 

"We had so many fun times, so many great memories. I cherish those memories. It was a good reason to marry Joanne." 

"Let the rhythm take you over" 
DANCE CLUB 
THIRSTY THURSDAY IS STUDENT ID NIGHT LADIES GET IN FREE, GUYS COVER ONLY $1.00 
MUST BE 21 TO ENTER 
HOURS Thurs & Fri 5pm -2:30am Saturday 8pm -2:30am 
VISIT OUR WEBSITE 
www.clubbailamos.com 
Phone: 25-SWING (257-9464) 
Located in the 100 Center Complex 100 Center Street• Mishawaka• Indiana 
NFL 

Sharpe returns to Denver 
Associated Press 

OWINGS MILLS, Md 
Shannon Sharpe expects a warm recepiion from apprecia­tive Denver Broncos fans dur­ing pregame 
introductions Sunday. 
Once the game starts, however, the Baltimore Ravens tight end expects the crowd to treat him like 


any other foe. Sharpe 

"Maybe when I come out there, they'll cheer. But when I do something good, they'll boo. That's what fans are supposed to do," Sharpe said Wednesday. 
Sharpe played 10 seasons with the Broncos, appearing in seven Pro Bowls and helping 
Denver win two Super Bowls. But after the 1999 season he and the Broncos parted ways, and Sharpe quickly latched on with the Ravens. 
"From a salary cap stand­point, what the Ravens were able to give me, the Broncos weren't able to do that," Sharpe said. "I totally under­stand. 
No hard feelings. I had 10 great years there and now I love my time here." 
Sharpe figures everyone ben­efitted from the switch. 
"They're happy with their decision and I'm very, very happy with mine," he said. "It was time for me to move on, and it was time for them to look at some of the younger tight ends." 
Sharpe still has the respect of his former teammates, many of whom still say he's as good as any tight end to play the game. 
"He will definitely go down 
as one of the best ever," 
Broncos linebacker Bill 
Romanowski said. 
"I think he's the best of all 
time." Denver coach Mike 
Shanahan said. 
Sharpe is closing in on two 
NFL records for tight ends. 
He's 32 catches and 70 yards 
short of breaking the career 
marks held by Hall of Farner 
Ozzie Newsome. now the 
Ravens executive vice presi­
dent of player personnel and the man responsible for bring­ing Sharpe to Baltimore. 
Asked if he thought the Broncos might stop Sunday's game if he amasses 70 yards receiving, Sharpe grinned and said, "I don't want them to stop the game. l want to keep going, because if I've got 70 yards that means I'm doing pretty good, I'm hot and on a roll." 
He then kiddingly added, 'Td like to break the other one, get about 32 catches. That would be really special." 
Regardless of how he per­forms, Sharpe expects it to be a one of a kind afternoon. 
"Obviously it's going to be strange, but I don't think it's going to be as strange if we were playing in the Old Mile High (Stadium)," he said. 'Tm not going to know what it's like to walk out on the visitor's side, compared to the home side. 
"But it's still going to be strange. For the most part, 
while I was there, those 75,000 fans were cheering for me. Now I catch a pass or do some­thing g~od, they're going to boo me. 
Sharpe turned a deflected pass into a 58-yard touchdown in Baltimore's 21-3 wild-card victory over the Broncos last January in Baltimore. 
"They called me lucky. I leave one team, go to another and win the Super Bowl," Sharpe said. "Sometimes it's better to be lucky than good." 
Sharpe is both. He had the last laugh a season ago, but Denver appears ready to mount a drive to the Super Bowl while Baltimore is com­ing off a 21-10 loss to the Cincinnati Bengals in which quarterback Elvis Grbac was forced to throw 63 passes. 
'Td like to think we're going to come out and make a better showing this week. We have to run the football," Sharpe said. "As well as Elvis can throw the football, we're asking an awful lot asking him to ttirow the ball 60, 70 times. You can win games like that, but you can't win championships." 
When he walks onto the field Sunday, Sharpe will likely be reminded that he has yet to pay up on a bet that Denver's Keith Burns could not get his body fat under 10 percent before the 2000 season. 
Burns came in at 9.3 per­cent, putting him in line for a Mercedes. 
"I didn't say what kind, and I didn't say what shape it was going to be in," Sharpe said. "Eventually he will get the car, but not if he keeps harassing me." 

high level of client interaction 
generalist program 
affiliations with top business schoots develop quantitative &qualitativ~ skills 
collegial workplace environment 
Sound interesting? 
Attend our company presentation to learn more about what the Investment Banking Analyst Program at William Blair & Company can offer you! 
Monday, October 1, 2001 CC£... Room 210 
7:00 p.m •9:00 p.m. 
WILLIAM BLAIR 

& COMPANY n2 WEsr ADAMS Srn£t:r CHICAGO, llUNOIS 60606 WWW.WILLIAMBI.AIR.COM 
William Blair & Company, L.L.C. Is an Equal Opportunity Employer. 

Thursday, September 27, 2001 

The Observer . SPORTS Page 19 
NFL 

Redskins sack 
Jackson carries Browns 
Associated Press 

BEREA, Ohio 
James Jackson raised eye­brows back on draft day in April when he said the Cleveland Browns could call off their search for 
a feature run­ning back. 
Jackson said he was the man. 
Two weeks into the season, there's no 


doubt he is. The rookie Jackson gained 124 yards on 31 carries in Cleveland's 24-14 win over the Delroit Lions on Sunday, and nobodv -not even former col­lege teammate Edgerrin James -is questioning Jackson any­more. "Hopefully, I can go out and get a few more of those," Jackson said Wednesday. Jackson became the first Cleveland back to get 100 yards in a game since the team returned as an expansion fran­chise in 1999. That's 34 games. He also tied Jim Brown's rookie team record for attempts and perhaps more importantly got James, Indianapolis' star back and Jackson's close friend, to cut him a little slack. Following a 14-carry, 37-yard effort in his NFL debut against Seattle, Jackson said he caught grief from James and others. "l heard a lot about it on the phone from my home boys," he said. "Edgerrin and those guys." 
But as soon as he got back to the locker room on Sunday, his cellphone was ringing. 

"Three minutes after the game they were calling me up," Jackson said. "They just said, 'Good game and we're proud of you.' I didn't rub it in." 
During their first two years back in the league. the Browns' rushing game was not existent, and the club paraded in all kinds of backs looking for a decent one. 
In 1999, Terry Kirby and Karim Abdul-Jabbar got their shots. And last year, Travis Prentice and Errict Rhett got the most carries. But there were countless others who came and went. 
"I don't think I could list them all," quarterback Tim Couch said. "I think we finally found one that's probably going to be here for a while." 
Browns coach Butch Davis had Jackson at Miami so he knew what kind of player he got when the 5-foot-10, 210­pound Jackson was selected with the 65th overall pick in this year's draft. 
Jackson, who backed up Jacksonville's Fred Taylor in high school, sat behind James for two years with the Hurricanes. 
But as a part-time player he made the most of his chances, averaging nearly 7 yards per carry for two years before becoming a starter. 
Davis joked that there were many times when Jackson made him look bad. 
"They wanted to fire the coach every other week," Davis said. "Edgerrin was tearing the country up, nobody was tack­ling him and half the people in the stands thought we were playing the wrong running back. 
"James would get his nine carries and would get his 134 yards and have two 60-yard runs, and everybody would say, . 'See, coach. I told you we're playing the wrong guy.' He was a good player, and is a good player.'' 
Unable to sign a top free agent back, the Browns seemed resigned to go into this year with a running-back-by-com­mittee approach. James, how­ever, has changed their think­ing. 
Davis has been reluctant to name either Jackson or Jamel White as his starter during the exhibition season or in the first two weeks of the regular sea­son. 
He still won't. 
"James has started the first two games, and at this time there's no reason to think that won't continue," Davis said. 
Jackson said he could only remember one other game when he carried the ball as much as he did on Sunday. As a junior, he rushed for 129 yards on 33 carries against Penn State. 
He prepared himself for the pain on Monday, but was sur­prised to find that he didn't ache from head to toe. 
"It wasn't bad," he said. "A lot of coaches were asking me all day, 'How's the body?' And I said, Tm serious, coach. I'm fine.'" 


Need a place to park one block fron,, the A&M' Canipus? 
The College M::ain Parking Garage 
50¢/hour 6 a.m. -7 p.m. $1.50/hour 7 p.m. -2 a.m. $10 daily max 
or 

The Promenade Parking Lot 
(Church Street) $10 ALL DAY PARKING! 
'flralk to -t:he game or take a. :free sh...-ttie% 
(piek. ••p/drops dh-eeily hi i"ro..._t ol: -d:ae garage) 
JJ'or Tnore infonna:tion call 764-8565. 

quarterback 
. Washington cuts ineffective George, signs Graham 
Associated Press 
ASHBURN, Va. 
Jeff George was cut by the 
Washington Redskins on 
Wednesday after he failed to 
lead the team to a single 
point in its two embarrassing 
losses to open the season. 
Handcuffed in a system 
that didn't suit him, the 
quarterback was scoreless in 
6 1/2 quarters. The Redskins 
have been outscored 67-3, 
with the field goal coming 
while backup Tony Banks 
was on the field in the opener 
against San Diego. 
George's 34.6 quarterback 
rating ranks last in the NFL. 
In the two games, he com­
pleted 23 of 42 passes for 
168 yards and three inter­
ceptions. He was also sacked 
six times. 
The Redskins are without a 
touchdown two games into 
the season for the first time 
in their 69-year history, 
which includes three Super 
Bowl titles. 
George was told of the 
decision when he arrived at 
7:15 a.m. for a workout. 
"He was surprised and sad­dened," said his agent, Leigh Steinberg. "His perspective is that it's the coach's preroga­tive to make these decisions. The timing was a complete surprise, but the decision seems to have been made a long time ago." 


Steinberg 

"There's got to be some tendinitis
said he had 

changes. By no means in his
already 
throwing

received am I pointing fingers, but 
shoulder.
several 

we can't survive on an 
Schotten­
calls from 

average of 1.5 points per heimer, 0-2
t e a m s for the first

expressing game" 
time in his
interest in 
16-year
the 3 3­

Bruce Smith coaching
y ear -old George. He defensive end career, said 
did not dis­close the teams. 
Soon after cutting George, the Redskins signed quarter­back Kent Graham, who was cut by Pittsburgh earlier this month. 
Graham has also played for Arizona and the New York Giants. He signed a one-year contract for the veteran mini­mum of $477,000. 
George, who was in the second year of a four-year, $18.25 million contract, was the NFL's No. 1 pick in 1990 out of' Illinois, but he has had a troubled career. Although blessed with a strong arm, he is just 46-78 as a starter with five teams. 
Controversy has followed him everywhere, reaching its peak when he argued with Atlanta coach June Jones on the sideline during a game in 1996. The Falcons suspended George, then cut him. 
In the Redskins' season 
opener, a30-3 loss to the Chargers, George and coach Marty Schottenheimer had an animated sideline discussion after Schottenheimer put Banks in the game. 
George had four turnovers against San Diego -two fumbles and two intercep­tions -and refused to speak to reporters for 11, days afterward. 
Schottenheimer kept George as his starter for Monday night's game against the Green Bay Packers. 
The Redskins lost 37-0, with George playing the entire game, completing 15 of 24 passes for 102 yards, with one interception. 
On Tuesday, Schottenheimer gave an indi­cation of what was to come when he said he was consid­ering starting Banks in Sunday's home opener against Kansas City. 
George's teammates indi­cated they were losing faith in their quarterback. 
"There's got to be some changes," defensive end Bruce Smith said Tuesday. "By no means am l pointing fingers, but we can't survive on an average of 1.5 points per game." 
It had been long obvious that George's strong-arm, downfield game wasn't com­patible with Schottenheimer's quick-drop, short-pass West Coast offense. 
George worked all spring and summer to learn the offense, but he never looked comfortable. It also didn't help that he missed nearly all of training camp with 
he wasn't 
ready to 
radically change the offense to feature a downfield passing game. 
Some of George's attempts to dump the ball for short gains have looked awkward. In both games, the first two drives were killed when a third-down pass was com­pleted short of the first-down marker. 
Schotten-heimer said part of the blame for those plays was with the quarterback. 
"The bottom line is we're not making enough first downs," Schotten-heimer said. "We're not making enough yardage.'' 
George was drafted by Indianapolis and played with the Colts from 1990-93. Be was in Atlanta from 1994-96, then spent two seasons with Oakland and one with Minnesota before joining the Redskins last year as Brad Johnson's backup. 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 27, 2001 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

Piazza bruises thumb during Mets victory 
home plate while Valentine second in 15 years. "That first game here hurt sacrifice fly and Gutierrez's
Associated Press 

stood waiting nearby. He "I wanted to win more than I everybody. It was a big blow t?, RBI single. Arroyo gave up four 
MONTREAL 
The New York Mets got a big scare -an injury to Mike Piazza -before sealing an important win. 
Glendon Rusch pitched 7 2-3 strong innings after Piazza suf­fered a bruised right thumb as the Mets beat the Montreal Expos 5-2 Wednesday night. 
Piazza was taken to hospital for X-rays -which proved negative -after he was struck directly on his thumb by Mike Mordecai's foul tip leading off the bottom of the first. 
"That was a scary moment," Mets manager Bobby Valentine said. 
Piazza had a black sleeve on his thumb to keep the swelling down as he talked to reporters following the game. 
'Tm going to treat it through­out the night and tomorrow morning, and see how it feels," Piazza said. "If it feels better, then it might be good enough to play. If not, I don't see it going past maybe one more day." 
Armando Benitez pitched the ninth for his 42nd save, topping the team record for saves he set last season. 
The Mets remained four games behind division-leading Atlanta, which won 4-1 in Florida. New York has won seven of its last eight games, and 24 of 30. 
Rusch (8-10) allowed one run in the first and held Montreal scoreless before leaving with two outs in the eighth after Orlando Cabrera's double put runners at second and third. 
Rick White relieved and Geoff Blum hit an RBI single to make it 5-2, but Cabrera was cut down at the plate by left fielder Tsuyoshi Shinjo's perfect throw to Vance Wilson, who replaced Piazza.. It was Shinjo's 12th assist of the season. 
"It was a strike, right down the middle," Valentine said. "He's a very good player. If it wasn't for division play, if all the teams saw him equally, I think he'd get a Gold Glove this year. But I don't know if the other teams have seen him enough to see just how good he's been day in and day out." 
Rusch allowed eight hits and two runs. He struck out four and walked one. 
"It's do or die right now, and there's nothing better than to have chances to pitch in these situations and help," Rusch said. 
Piazza, who struck out in the first, was examined by assistant trainer Scott Lawrenson behind attempted to grip a ball before making his way off the field. 

"It just kind of went numb," Piazza said. "It might have hit in a sensitive spot. Bobby asked me if I wanied to throw the ball and I told him I couldn't really feel the ball." 
Phillies 8, Reds O 
Randy Wolf won't be going back to the bullpen anytime soon. 
Wolf pitched a one-hitter, giv­ing up Raul Gonzalez's first major league hit in the opening inning, and the Philadelphia Phillies beat the Cincinnati Reds 8-0 Wednesday night. 
Travis Lee hit a three-run homer and Scott Rolen also connected for Philadelphia, which remained one game behind first-place Atlanta in the NL East. The Braves beat Florida 4-1. 
"That might have been the best I've seen Randy pitch," Phillies manager Larry Bowa said. "It was unbelievable." 
Wolf (8-11) allowed just a line-drive single to right by Gonzalez, the second batter of the game. 
The left-hander retired 14 straight after the hit before walking Corky Miller to start the sixth. Wolf retired the last 11 batters, finishing with eight strikeouts. 
After losing five straight starts between June 2-27, Wolf was taken out of the rotation. He wasn't too pleased about going to the bullpen. 
"It was something that was definitely a reluctant _thing," said Wolf, who is 3-2 with a 
2.92 ERA since returning. "But sometimes you need something like that to evaluate what you are doing. It gave me a chance to look at what I was doing mentally and physically." 
Wolf didn't overpower the Reds, but he kept them off-bal­ance by changing speeds and spotting his fastball. 
Gonzalez almost got another hit in the fourth, but shortstop Jimmy Rollins made a back­handed play and a strong throw to first to get him. Wolf made a nice play on a hard grounder up the middle by Sean Casey in the fifth. 
The Reds didn't come close to getting another hit. 
"He had us baffled all night," Reds manager Bob Boone said. "He had a good breaking ball and a sneaky fastball." 
The victory clinched Philadelphia's first non-losing season since 1993 and just its 

AUDITIONS 
NOTRE DAME OPERA 
Friday, Sept. 28, Annenberg Auditorium 2:30 -4:30 pm Perfonn one song or aria from memory. An accompanist willbe provided. Performances on April 26 & 27, 2002 
OPEN TO ALL 
lost," Bowa said. "That was one us. We had to win today, goal." Gutierrez said. "We're going 
home for 10 days and hopefully 
we can make a run at the wild 
Cubs 8, Pirates 4 
card. If we had lost this one, The Chicago Cubs finally got our season would probably be what they've needed for more over." than a week -a well-pitched 
The Cubs (82-70) trail both game. What they must be won­St. Louis and San Francisco in 
dering is whether it came too the wild card standings -but late to matter. they still have made a signifi­Ricky Gutierrez had three cant improvement from last 
hits and drove in two runs and 
year's 98-loss season. the Cubs built a six-run lead 
"We have to rely on St. Louis 
behind rookie Juan Cruz in and San 
beating the 
Francisco to Pittsburgh lose, and it's 
Pirates 8-4 "/ pulled him aside and 
tough when Wednesday said he had to get us into you're relyingnight, end­
the seventh and throw on two other 
ing a four­teams to lose,"
strikes."
game losing Matt Stairs streak. 
said. "It was a Cruz (3-1) 
Don Baylor disappointing 
was working (4-5) road trip
Cubs manager
on 
a three­and it 
could 

hit shutout 
have been a until leaving lot better." after former Cubs outfielder Cruz, considered the Cubs' Gary Matthews Jr.'s three-run, top pitching prospect. held the pinch-hit homer in the seventh. 
Pirates to three singles over 
Unlike Monday, when the 
the first six innings until tiringCubs squandered a 5-0 lead in the seventh, when he was and lost 7-6 on a homer by lifted after throwing 101 pitch­
Matthews, their bullpen held 
es in the longest of his six on this time. David Weathers 
starts. got out of the seventh despite 
"I pulled him aside and said allowing two more hits, Kyle he had to get us into the sev­Farnsworth pitched a scoreless 
enth and throw strikes, and he eighth and Jeff Fassero fin­was good enough to do that," ished. Baylor said. 
"We could not give up anoth­The Cubs, playing their final er lead," manager Don Baylor road game of the season, said. 
opened a 2-0 lead in the first The Cubs had lost 10 of 14 to as Bronson Arroyo (4-7)fall 4 games behind St. Louis in walked two around Michael the NL wild card race. Tucker's bunt single. Stairs' 
hits and three runs in four 
innings. 
"Physically, his stuff was not there. Mentally, he wasn't into the game out there," manager Lloyd McClendon said. "It's like they say. every time he takes one step forward, he takes two steps back." 
Braves 4, Marlins 1 
Jason Marquis decided to pitch on Yorn Kippur, and the Atlanta Braves are glad he did. 
Andruw Jones, left, put the Braves ahead for good in the sixth inning with his 33rd horner. 
Marquis. who is Jewish, allowed one run in six innings and helped Atlanta beat the f<lorida Marlins 4-1 Wednesday night to maintain a one-game lead in the NL East. 
The second-place Philadelphia Phillies kept pace by beating Cincinnati 8-0. The New York Mets beat Montreal 5-2 and remained four games back with 10 to play.. 
Marquis (4-6) declined the Braves' offer to let him skip the game in observance of the start of the holiday, and he won for the first time in his past five starts. 
"I discussed it with my fami­ly, and I think I came to the right decision," said Marquis, 23, who lives in nearby Coral Springs. Fla. "Baseball is a very important part of my life -as important as family and religion. I am fasting, and I'm going to temple Thursday with my family." 
make the decision 
f6. 
diff~~~~~7;ke a 
UNIVERSITY OF ST. THOMAS SCHOOL OF LAW MINNEAPOLIS, MINNESOTA 
The University of St. Thomas School of Law is offering up to 40 full-tuition scholarships to students interested in a faith-based approach to personal and professional ethics, immersion in real world law practice through a unique, three-year mentor program, a rigorous academic challenge, and dedication to public service. 
Phone: (800) 328-6819 (ext. 2-4895) E-mail: lawschool@stthomas.edu Web: www.stthomas.edu/lawschool 
,, ~ UNIVERSITY of ST.THOMAS 
Tht V11ii'ff'uty 11/St. ThomaJ doeJ not discriminate on the 0'11iJ of raet, color, (Y'e«/, ~ligio", ,rali<mal r,rigin, Jt:e. dgt. n111,ital J.ktfUJ. afftt11o'IJ11/ p,ifmna Dr disrJhility in its program1 and dcti1,itiu. 
Thursday, September 27, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
OLYMPICS 

Greece behind 
Tel Aviv to bid for 2012 
Associated Pre•• 
LONDON 
Tel Aviv is considering a bid for the 2012 Olympics but acknowledges the Palestinian conflict must first be resolved before the games could go to [srael. 
Alex Gilady, an Israeli mem­ber of the International Olympic Committee. sent a let­ter to IOC president Jacques Rogge on Tuesday that said his government plans a study of a Tel Aviv bid. 
Citing "the dark days of ter­ror, violent conflicts and dark clouds over my country," Gilady said Israel realized that a settlement of the Palestinian conflict was a "precondition" for a viable Olympic candida­cy. 
But he said Israel would press ahead with the possible 
.. 
bid while politicians try to negotiate a lasting peace. 
"This decision is a clear indi­cation that we will not let the years be wasted and use the Olympic dream to upgrade our infrastructure and sports facil­ities," Gilady said. 
"It may take 20 or 30 years to fulfill the project," he added. "The most important thing is that every piece of land that the five (Olympic) rings are flying over is -or wants to be -a better place for mankind." 
The Israeli government has budgeted $1.37 million for the two-year feasibility study. 
As many as a dozen cities could enter the 2012 race, including Rome, London, Paris and Madrid. Eight American cities are in the running to become the official U.S. entry. The IOC will select the host city in 2005. 

dIL THE CUSHUWA CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF AMERICAN CATHOLICISM 
7JF presents 
"Hotly in Pursuit of the Real": The Catholic Writer 
Ron Hansen Santa Clara University 
Friday, September 28, 2001 129 DeBartolo Hall 4:00 p.m. 
A possible Israeli bid was first proposed 22 months ago by three urban planning stu­dents at Tel Aviv University. They conducted a study show­ing how Olympic host dties such as Seoul, South Korea, and Barcelona, Spain, used the games for urban regenera­tion projects. 
Former roe president Juan Antonio Samaranch visited Israel in June, just days after a suicide bombing killed 20 people at a Tel Aviv disco, and said an Olympic bid was unthinkable without a peace agreement. 
"It can happen if you have peace," he said. "Without peace it's impossible." 
Israel and the Palestinians agreed Wednesday on a series of confidence-building mea­sures aimed at formalizing a shaky cease-fire and end a year of fighting. 
1n preparabons 
As,ociaLed Press 
ATHENS, Greece 
The IOC's new leader issued a harsh review of Greek Olympic preparations Wednesday, saying the country had no time to spare in meet­ing the "unparalleled" con­struction task. 
International Olympic Committee president Jacques Rogge told Premier Costas Simitis during a meeting that the Greek government must begin building nearly a dozen long-delayed sports venues and facilities. 
"There should be no comfort in the fact that 2004 sounds far off in the distance," Rogge said in his first visit to Athens 
·1 

A\ 
since being elected in July to success Juan Antonio Samaranch as IOC chief. 
Ilis comments echoed those Samaranch made more than a year ago, when he warned that the Athens Games were in jeopardy unless preparations speeded up. Samaranch later said work was on schedule and the games were safe. 
Rogge said he was confident the stadiums and infrastruc­ture would be finished on time ''but we need to witness sus­tained construction activity to remain so." 
Delays are so serious they overshadowed renewed con­cerns over security following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks against the United States. 
Rogge said he was satisfied so far with Greece's $600 mil­lion security plan for the games and said preparations will be reviewed, "but person­ally I do not expect big changes, according to what our experts have told us." 
He was in Athens to accom­pany Denis Oswald, who took over from Rogge as head of the roe committee monitoring Athens' preparations for the Games. 
That 44-member panel fanned out across the capital to take a closer look at many planned venues that remain on the drawing board less than three years before tqe sched­
uled  start  of  the  Athens  
Games.  
Work  has  begun  on  the  

Olympic Village and rowing center, but there has been no progress in at least eight other venues. They include the sail­ing and equestrian centers, wrestling hall and gymnastics arena. Some are still in the bidding process. 
"I met with the prime minis­ter and other Greek officials to underscore the importance of meeting all construction dead­lines, since this falls under their responsibility," Rogge said. 
In recent days, Simitis for the first time has admitted that the government lags in build­ing venues and infrastructure, but his ministers hope to make up for lost time by speeding up timetables. 
Organize Group &Go frN. •\1! 
~r:,:r:.ir ~~\."°­
FREE Drinks,.~, 
eals for Limited Time! 


_p/t~_;"'
trhv 5::fl\r'!c 
llllJlJUlm 
3 & 6 MILE RUNS, 2 MILE WALK 
AND 
PANCAKE BREAKFAST SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 29 -11:00 -STEPAN CENTER 
T-SHIRTS TO ALL FINISHERS REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS $6.00 IN ADVANCE AND $7.00 DAY OF RACE 
DEADLINE FOR ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS 9/'2B/OO AT 5. STUDENT AND STAFF DIVISIONS T-SHIRTS DONA TED BY THE ND ALUMNI ASSOCIA TIO 
/~-,. i.(./_ ,. 
.1l1.t11.ui.1~. ;
•· I 


r
t 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 27, 2001 
WOMEN'S GOLD LEAGUE 
Pangborn hopes to weasle by PE 
By AARON RONSHEIM and MATT 
FURRIE 
Sports Writers 

On Thursday night the Pasquerilla West 
Weasels and Pangborn Phoxcs will have 
two different mindsets. The Phoxes are 
coming off a winless season and looking 
towards the future while the Weasels are 
boping to continue their march into the 
post-season. 

"We are hoping to have a winning sea­
son and turn this program around." said 
captain Katrina Paulson. "The goal right 
now is to find out what things work and 
build towards our future." 

Pangborn didn't get off to a good start. 
They lost their only game this season 18­
0 to Pasquerilla East. With only three 
seniors, coupled with freshmen playing at 
many k~y positions, including quarter­
back, and a whole new coaching staff, 
inexperience is an issue. 

"It was the first game for a lot of people 
including the coaches." Paulson said. "We 
are much more prepared now." 
Seniors dominate on the other side of 
the ball. 

"We have a lot of good seniors on our 
team that live off-campus," said PW wide 
receiver Amanda Gallen. "Hopefully our 
experience will be the difference in this 
game and we can pull out a win." 
"It is important that the seniors take on 
the leadership responsibilities." said PW 
quarterback Leslie Schimdt. "If they do 
that underclassmen will follow them." 
PW is coming off a disappointing loss to 
Welsh. The Weasels offense was held in 
check by the Whirlwinds strong defense. 
"Our offense never got going," Schmidt 
said. "Their defense ate us up and we 
weren't ready for it." 

PW is adding some new wrinkles to 
their offense when asked to comment on 
any offensive changes, Schmidt refused to 
comment. 

PW is hoping for a breakout game from 
their two freshmen running backs Abby 
Nerlinger and Christen Boyd. 

"They now have some game experience 
and we need them to step up," Schmidt 
said. 

This is almost a must win game for the . Weasels if they want to return to the playoffs. "Our goal is differently to make the playoffs and play in stadium." Said 
Schimdt. "Look for us have a good game." 
Lyons, PE 

Tonight's game will be a study in con­trast as the Pyros of Pasquerilla East take on the Lions of Lyons Hall. While the Pyros have got off to a 2-0 start, the Lions are still searching for their first win this season. 
Despite the Lions 0-2 record, they should not be counted out. Last year they got off to a similar start, failing to score in their first three games, but still managed to qualify for the playoffs. After two tough losses this season, Thursday just might be their night. But the first step to a win today is playing clean football. 
"Penalties and small mistakes hurt us on both sides of the ball last game," said Lyons co-captain Kristin Furrie. "So were going to start by eliminating those mis­takes." 
Lyons is trying to bounce back from a 12-6 loss to Badin and build on the momentum of a strong finish. In the final minutes of the game, the defense came up with a turnover and Roxie Terevino scored the lone touchdown off a Sarah Jenkins pass. 
"We'll probably try to put the ball on the ground a lot more," said Furrie. "Our defense is tough, but we want to make their job a lot easier by putting some points on the board." 
Putting points on the board won't be an easy task considering the Pyros have been a powerhouse in women's interhall football the last several years. Two years ago they lost in the championship game against Walsh, and last year they contin­ued the tradition with another winning season. 
This year's group has proven to be just as talented and has shown every sign of heading in the right direction. Coming off wins against Welsh and Pangborn, P.E. is looking to make Lyons their third victim as they continue to dominant the regular season. 
The Pyros offense has many weapons and its defense has been almost impossi­ble to penetrate, but Lyons is up to the challenge, and they have nothing to lose but pride. 
Contact Aaron Ronsheim at Ronsheim.l@nd.edu and Matt Furrie at mfurrie@nd.edu 
We're look;ng
for the ····· 
BEST 8c B.RlGHTEST.
Like SMC? Like 
BANK ONE S~HOL.AR PkbeiRAM 
COMMERCIALBANKING
Sports? 

DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM 
Write for 

FINANCE AND ACCOUNTl·NG ANALYST PROGRAM
the 

CHECK OUT OUR WEBSITE :FOR PROGRAM DESCRIPTIONS!
Observer . 

& Q_UALIF!Cl\Tlt:1\15 ' 
. Call 


OoN'T MISS OUR PRESENYATI0NI
1-4543. 

THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29lH 
7:00 P.M. TO 9:00 P.M. 
CENTER FOR CONTI.NUING EDUCATION 
Tenn1·S
I ' 

continued from page 28 
Smith/Taborga earned spots on the preseason polls with No. 30 and No. 34 rankings respectively. ' 
After struggling in doubles play throughout the year as a team, Bayliss knows that making a switch might be the answer to Irish success this year. 
"As we discussed last year the key is going to be the doubles. We have to turn it around better than we did last 
year," Bayliss said. "If we become really good singles -not ncc­"Jf we become really in doubles I think we are cssarily the same good in doubles I going to be pretty tough people," Bayliss think we are going to to beat and I think we said. "So I would 
be pretty tough to say between singles beat and I think we have a chance to beat and doubles there have' a chance to beat everyone we play on the are maybe 14 or 15 
everyone we play on guys who will have the right day." right day.,, a chance to see The singles lineup some action this will also be shuffled Bob Bayliss year. It's really to begin the season. Irish head coach healthy to have 
Smith, who served as the No. 1 singles player for the Irish last year, will play behind Taborga who is ranked 76th in the preseason polls, while Smith is ranked 38th. The top four is rounded out by Talarico and Haddock-Morales. while Matt Scott, Andrew Laflin, Brian Farrell, and Brent D'Amico are all vying for starting time at Nos. 5 and 6. 
Based on intrasquad challenge matches, Taborga earned a spot at No. 1, but the lineup is by no means set in stone. 
"The top four players have played off for positions," Bayliss said. "The challenge match positions are simply a starting point, but at this point Javier Taborga won all of his matches 
and he'll start off at one." 
The Irish will certainly get a chance to test their new look this weekend, as they matchup against William and Mary today, and will battle Purdue, Indiana State, Harvard, Ball State and 
Michigan during the weekend. 
Finishing the season with a No. 28 national ranking, Indiana State may pose the biggest threat for Notre Dame, but the Iri?h know anything can happen early m the season, and t~rnt the f~ll_ play will help determine lmeup dec1s10ns. 
"There are really a dozen or more people in contention for playing time 
in doubles, and 
probably a dozen in 
Brent D'Amico 
knocking on the 

door in singles and Paul McNaughton doing that in dou­bles, because the older guys can't rest and they know it." 
No team scores will be recorded during this weekend's invitational due to rules imposed by the NCAA. Without official announcements of the winners of dual matches, teams will be able to record only one playing date instead of four, giving more opportunity for more season play. However, all individual matches will be recorded and taken into account in the singles and doubles rankings. 
Contact Rachel Biber at Rachel.A.Biber.l@nd.edu. 

PAINTBALL 
NOTRE DAME YOU HAVE BEEN CHALLENGED!!!! 
PURDUE UNIVERSITY is bringing a group to Action Park Painmall in Mishawaka on Sunday September 30 and has officially challenged any ND students to come out and play against them, special discounted rates! 
Special discount rates for this outing have been given by 
the field. call 219-674-GAME for more detnils ctnd ~o 
reserve your spot. ,..\ction Park 1s located mi·-1LC:: f1 l::~ I -~ii-npus. For a m,1!~ g1, to net innp,irL:painib;:i l. ·, i; 

• 
Largest ou1dour field in area. 23 + <.Joodea aL:r~s. 

• 
Multiple ficlds ....can you defend the castle? 

• 
We provide all rental equipment needed! 




Thursday, September 27, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
come in time." defense held its ground and Execution was the key objec­McGlinn weren't able to con­
Blue 

tive for the Shamrocks in the vert. game. First-time quarterback The game ended on a 30­
continued from page 28 

Julie Kremer had 12 comple­vard drive from McGlinn. The tions on 23 attempts and was clock stopped what seemed
time to get on a roll," said the driving force of the like a great opportunity to

Ross. "We haven't found our McGlinn offense. score.

place working as a team. It's "We felt good as a team," "If we had a little more time,

kind of tough when you're 

Kremer said. "Our receivers we could have scored," said
practicing [for the first time] are more confident, and every­Kremer. "We should have used out on the field." 

one is settling into their posi­the first 18 minutes of the halfDespite the lack of practice, tions pretty well." better."
Off-Campus made use of the Walsh couldn't say the same
blitz. forcing Cavanaugh to 
thing about their play in the 

pass more than usual. game. Lewis 24, Farley O "It was hard to get major 
Where McGlinn executed, Thanks to quarterback Erin 
yards with our running game "Naz" Nasrallah, the Lewis
Walsh felt they fell short.
because they blitzed so much," "It was really frustrating for Hall offense became a scoringReimer .said. "But that did open the offense," said Walsh head machine Tuesday night. 

up our passing game more." 

coach Steve Dillenburger. Nasrallah threw for three After Tuesday's win, the "The game play was faulty. touchdowns and ran for a 
Chaos feel ready to foce some and that is my fault. We fourth as the Chicks defeated of the more difficult teams in 
weren't clicking at the same the Farley Finest, 24-0 
the league, including Walsh, 
Nasrallah showed off her
time."
their next opponent. 

The first half was concen­versatility by leaving the pock­"We're excited to have a big 
trated around McGlinn's 30-et at will and scrambling for 
win going into a game against yard line. Walsh had two significant gains during the Walsh because they are a good interceptions in the first half, first half, including Lewis' first 
team," said Bruckert. "We've but were unable to convert. touchdown. 

got a week to prepare for them 

And McGlinn was never able "This was a very satisfyingand so we're looking forward to advance it past the 50-yard game, hut all the credit goes to 
to that game." 

line. the offensive line and the "Our defense played very receivers," Nasrallah said. MCGiinn 0, Walsh 0 well." said Dillenburger. Nasrallah did get plenty of 
There was nothing wild "Freshmen Amanda Borys, help from her receiving corps. about the stalemate between Becky Tapp, and Katie She hit three different Jack of production. The Finest attempt to change the momen­Wild Women of Walsh Family Ilesmond all played well." receivers for touchdowns, 
were held scoreless once tum late in the game with a 
hall and the Shamrocks of Walsh found themselves at including Katie Schlosser, 
again, mirroring their perfor­rarely seen attempted puntMcGlinn. The Wild Women McGlinn's 20-yard line Lynne McChrystal and Jennie mance in a tie against Walsh block. While legal in theory,
knew it. towards the end of the half, Chang. 
Hall two Sundays ago. the play caused confusion on "We were not all together at but Walsh quarterback Lauren Schlosser also returned 
Farley Quarterback Megan the field when a Farley player
the same time," said Walsh Walsh was not able to connect punts for Lewis, and her speed 
Sheehan was sacked several made contact with the Lewis running back Carrie Campbell. with her receivers. and agility on those returns times and received pressure punter. The resulting penalty
"The penalties hurt us, and we In the second half, McGlinn helped improve her team's on nearly every play. and punt gave Lewis greatcould not convert on third came out strong. Julie Kremer field position throughout the 
"The [receivers] were defi­field position after Alicia Hehr 
downs." game. Schlosser attributes
connected with Sarah nitely open, we just didn't get intercepted a pass deep in The Shamrocks, however, Vatterott three times for a first some of the team success to the ball to them," said Farley Farley territory. were pleased with their play, down, but just couldn't find the unifying desire to return to 
coach Irish ThomJ_>son. Lewis That field position set up
Notre Dame Stadium for the

even with the tied score. the end zone. 
defenders intercepted Sheehan Nasfrallah's final touchdown 
"This was the best game I've Late in the third quarter, championship game. 
twice at key points in the pass to Jennie Chang in the ever seen McGlinn play," said Christa Gray intercepted a "We're really coming togeth­game, including Ellen closing seconds of the game.
McGlinn safety Christa Gray. Walsh pass and ran it back to er now, because we wanna ... McCarthy's with less than a "Our effort was superb the Walsh 30-yard line, gener­get back in the stadium," 
minute remaining in the first 
today," said McGlinn head ating some energy from the Schlosser said. Contact Joe Hettler at jhet­
half to stop a potential Farleycoach Geoff Heiple. "We exe­McGlinn sideline. On Farley's side of the ball, scoring drive. tler@nd.edu and Phillip the story was the offense's Koesterer at pkoester@nd.edu. 
cuted well, the scoring will But once again the Walsh 
Farley made a last-ditch 




HP 315 Digital Camera 

Rio 600/32MB MP3 Player 

1 I !' 
L -:.. •• 



Canon ZR20 or Handsprirg Visor ZR25 MC Camcorder Edge Handheld 
Buymore. Save more. 
Buy any Mac and receive a free Lexmark color printer* Save even more when you also buy these great products: 
(tax and other charges not included). 
Canon ZR20 or ZR25 MC Camcorder, HP 315 Digital Camera, Handspring Visor Edge Now's the time to buy your Mac. They're fast, easy to use, and 
Handheld, and Rio 600132MB MP3 Playe[ For each product you buy, you'll receive loaded with features. Express yourselfby creating your own a $100 instant rebate. iMovies. Use iTunes to rip MP3s from your favorite CDs, or Take advantage ofspecial student pricing. You can even get an Apple burn custom CDs. Enhance your work with productivity Instant Loan for Education. Buy and save online at the Apple Store for Education: and graphics software. And share files with anyone. www.apple.com/education/store, call SOQ.780-5(){)(), or visit the Solutions Center in 
The benefits add up-just like the savings. CCMB, Room 112. 
Offer good between July 18, 2001, and October 14, 2001. 
• 5a,re pun:hw: rafUircd and i:s d,jm 1odtn Ola ba!cdoo '69 Mam rdmt md 169 ~uktum'sSugge,ll!d amill'rk:c Uthe LOJnarl:.232 CobrJaprwer. 011:rlll:io pxl 10""-ard f6911sraa1 lttllltlx ,09MSRP oathe Lomark z,JColo: Jerprinltf. 
O2001,wJkCom:,dn; Inc. NI rig#f1rttrt'f!f!! A/Jj)le, ,bi! AjJ{JWlqio,Alf!l,t Slorr, Mac,aml'Thinid#fferm('mtTtldt!mmtso/~r.m,gw,r. "-'~ n,Jf.flffrld Mfbl!E.S ttNiod.wYc-06'1:1hfe tMort&an-~tJ{ApfkO,mpWIIJF: me. CiM'rompa,,,,alllifmXJuc1 nlffllt'sll1fflftonedbtJ-tin marlw rrudtntanJ of•ir ~U,·contpa~ ffunei: is~fer ri;p,oth;.,71Qfto{~Jd~qr maleriais tMILWl"iJltgaJ/y pemiintd A:>teprodua. 
Autluizffl &'seller 
page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 27, 200 I 

Fisher 
continued from page 28 
lie won't demand more car­ries when he is having a good game or challenge the coaches to give him the ball more. He has public confidence in his coaches. 

"They are going to put the one in that they feel is going to con­tribute the most to the team at that point," he said. "The offen­
. sive coordinators know more about this offense than I do." 
passes in 2000 and has caught just one pass for minus one yards this year. 
"I've been telling the coaches that I want to be more involved in the passing game because I feel I can contribute something to it," Fisher said. "Hopefully this week, I will be more involved .in the passing game." 
With injuries to Arnaz Battle and David Givens depleting the Irish receivers. Davie expects to use Fisher more as a receiver out of the backfield. 
"With the injuries the way they are, you may see a little 
more of that, 
where those 


"I am just out there to tailbacks
Fisher 

may have win. I am going to make become 
receivers a lit­

confidence the best ofmy 
tle bit more,"
in his coach­

opportunities." Davie said.
es' choices. 
"That's some­
but his hard 
thing .we were

running is Tony Fisher 
really good at
certainly 

Irish tailback 
here a couple


influencing their deci­sions. He will still split time with Jones this week but if he is clearly the better back, Bob Davie won't give him the quick hook again. 
"I thought Tony Fisher ran the ball well last week," Davie said. "I start he started ripping it ... Both of them are going to play but I am going to go with the hot hand." 

Fisher brings more than just a hard running style to the Irish. He is also a great receiver out of the backfield. But since his sophomore year when he caught 18 passes for 287 yards -including two catches for 51 yards against Michigan -he has been used less and less as a receiver. He caught just 12 of years ago, 
of getting that ball in his hands in the passing game." 
No matier how they clo it, the Irish need to get Fisher the ball. Because when Fisher has the ball, the offense runs smoothest and the Irish have the best chance to win -which is all that rnally matters in the end. 
"I am just out there to win the game," Fisher said. "I am going to make the most of my oppor­tunities." 
Contact Mike Connolly at connolly.28@nd.edu.The opin­ions expressed in this column are those ofthe writer and not necessarily those ofThe Obseruer. 

"Because we call Notre Dame a family. . ." The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs offers--some opportunities to stand in solidarity with gay, lesbian, and bisexual members of our Notre Dame community. Featured Speaker: Mrs. Judy Shepard Thursday, September 27, 2001 7:30 p.m. in the Heshurgh Library Auditorium Admission is FREE Reception with Mrs. Shepard following the presentation Mrs. Shepard's story: In October 1998, Judy Shepard lost her twenty-one year old son, Matthew, to a murder inspired by anti-gay hate. Her ordeal moved thousands of people across America to attend vigils and rallies in Matthew's honor. Determined to prevent their son's fate from befalling other people, Judy and her husband, Dennis, established the Matthew Shepard Foundation to help carry on Matthew's legacy by embracing the just causes he had championed. This includes working for gay and lesbian equality and helping to prevent hate crimes. Judy is detennined to use her grief over her son's death to make a difference. She is now speaking to audiences nationwide about what they can do to make their schools and communities safer for everyone, regardless of their race, sex, religion, or sexual orientation. September 30, 2001, is SOLIDARITY SUNDAY. "Notre Dame, our Mother, in sharing your name, we claim that we are family. "Solidarity Sunday invites the Notre Dame community to pray and grow as one family. On this Sunday, we recognize the value of our community's gay, lesbian, and bisexual members. All Masses on campus will express the comminnent of Notre Dame to stand with Christ, in community, with all her brothers and sisters. Prayer cards and rainbow ribbons will be distn"buted at all Masses to serve as symbols for the Notre Dame community to display their commitment to stand together and make Notre Dame a place for all people to grow in faith, hope, and love. Thursday, October 11, 2001, is National COMING OUT Day. On the occasion of National Coming Out Day, October 11, 2001, we the Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs join Notre Dame's gay,ksbian, and bisexual students in gratitude for tile love and sttpport they have received from family and friends. We urge all members of our community to redouble all efforts to make our campus a safe and welcoming place free from harassment of any kind.  



----------··--·--­
Thursday, September 27, 2001 The Obseroer . SPORTS page 25 
Remedies for Notre Dame football 


CAUTION•• 


ing Navy linemen. 
But don't get too carried away. I hear that if you try to pass the ball on first down more than five times in a game with the Irish, the system's artificial intelligence gets con­fused and the game freezes up on you. Just be careful. 
Well, there you have it. An annotated listing of sports and activities that you can support if you're tired of having your heart broken by the football team every week. Of course, l am by no means suggesting that you pawn off the remain­der of your season tickets in order to pay off debts at the bookstore. 
Cheer for the football team like it's the first week of the season. Give them the support they deserve. But give these other suggestions a chance as well. And by the way, if any­one wants to challenge me in a game of NCAA 2002, I'm always down for that. 
Contact Colin Boylan at cboylan@nd.edu. The opinions expressed in this column are those of the writer and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
OK. so the Notre Dame foot­ball team is 0-2 and suddenly those long Saturday afternoons are looking like a splendid time to catch up on some homework for your classes next week. 
Indeed. these can be trying times for a Notre Dame sports fan, especially at a University where we stake so much of our pride on the fate of our foot­ball squad. It gets even tougher if your favorite baseball team has already been mathematically eliminat­ed from the playoffs and your football team is gazing at the Cincinnati Bengals' record with envy. 
But don't despair, friends. You can still get your fix for competitive sports action with­out walking away mumbling to yourself about ridiculous play calls and questionable substi­tution patterns. Welcome to the world of "other Notre Dame sports." 

They may not receive as much print or be as glamorous to watch as our boys in blue and gold, but attending (or participating in) these compe­titions can be just as worth­while. 
So without further adieu. here are some suggestions about how to pass the time until women's basketball sea­son starts. 

Attend a women's soccer game: Oh sure, in about a month when the team has compiled its customary 21-3 record, won the Big East Championship, and solidified its position as one of the top five teams in the nation, every­one will be on their bandwag­on. But wouldn't it be nice to say you supported these girts from the beginning? After their victory over No. 3 Nebraska it might be a little tougher to say those exact words, but believe me, plenty of good seats will certainly be available for their remaining games. Throw in the fact that the cheerleaders give away a wide variety of shirts, mini­soccer balls. etc. at every game and you would be crazy not to go. 
Attend a women's tennis match: In addition to being a perennial top 25 team, the women's tennis matches have a lot more scoring than is typi­cally found in women's soccer games. 
If that's the sort of thing that gets you going, you might want to invest some time in cheering on this team. Plus, it's much nicer to watch a match in the climate controller Eck Tennis Center than it is to sit through two hours in the chilling winds of the soccer field. 
Exercise some of your own athletic skill: If your one of those purists who think that the only way that basketball should be played is on the blacktop, your time for action is now. 
Ditto for you sand volleyball or ultimate Frisbee enthusi­asts. The wrath of the South Bend winter is already knock­ing on our door and these may be our last few months to get a game at Stepan before the courts are turned into a slushy mess. 
Sure, anyone can go to Rolfe's and practice their jumper, but when Bookstore Basketball rolls around next spring, you'll be glad you invested the time in outdoor practice this fall. 
Turn Irish football into a National Championship con­tender: The particularly pas­sionate fan might want to give this strategy a try. It's really a lot simpler than you think. Simply go to your local elec­tronics retailer and pick up a copy of NCAA 2002 for your Sony Playstation or PS2 con­sole. 
Want to see Matt LoVecchio gun tight spirals to Javin Hunter 30 yards downfield? Bombs away. 
Want to watch Rocky Boirnan rack up double-digit sacks and send Eric Crouch out of the game on a stretcher? 
Happy hunting. Want to insert Courtney Watson at run­ning back and watch him tote the rock for 200-plus yards? Have fun, 
Turn the settings on to "rookie" mode and have a blast, releasing all your pent up frustrations on unsuspect­

wHEN: TONIGHT 
9 p.m. -Midnight 
wHER.E: On the Slope/Knoll Between KNOTT and SIEGFRIED (Rain Location -Stepan Center) 
w.HAT: FREE food, drinks, and prizes. DJ, Joust, Moonwalk, BOUNCY boxing, HUGE twister game 

Sponsored by: DICE, Student Activities, Knott, PE, PW, Siegfried 
Write Observer sports. Call 1-4543 


Page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 27, 2001 
SMC SOCCER 

Belles hope to improve on win streak 


Join us in ce[e6rating tfie yassion andsyirituafity ofJ-fenri Nouwen. 
September 29, 2001 
11 :00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. at the Center for Continuing Education (CCE) Rm. 210 
HENRI NOUWEN 
~ 

Passion andS_pirituafity ~ 
·'-"-/f> 
.-<~-­

Fifth Anniversary Celebration 

Celebration will include: Also: 
.,., Video dipi of Henri'i Pau.ion * "Stream" the event on your computer by clicking on 
i; Panel Reflectioni on Henri 'x Spirituality www.nd.edu for coverage. 
.,., Downlink iites' commenh and queitioni *Pray in solidarity with the participants . 
.,., 8P.11erage1 will ~e provided * Order the post-event video to view with family, friends, colleagues, students or retreat houses for personal enrichment. 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 

The ice has been broken and now the Belles are looking to heat up the season. 
After getting two solid wins under its belt, Saint Mary's is looking to improve its winning streak to three in a game against Indiana Tech today. 
"We're finally starting to see what style of soccer [we] play," head coach Bobby Johnston said. "We just needed to break the ice as a team." 
Today marks the third game for the Belles in the last six days. After a long hiatus early in the season following a break between tournament play and MIM play and another week off due to the terrorist attacks, Saint Mary's needed the close cluster of games to break through for some wins. 
"Sometimes to get on a run like this helps your season," Johnston said. "We had two long layoffs and I think that hurt." 
Junior Heather Muth agreed. 
"The fact that we won on Sunday and that we won Tuesday, and the games have gotten progressively harder, it feels like we're gaining some momentum," she said. 
Although freshman second­string goalie Martha Hottenstein is out with a hand injury, the rest of the Belles team is ready for play. After a season full of injury, this is the healthiest the Belles have been this season. 
"All in all I think we're pretty much as healthy as we've been all year," Johnston said .. 
Today's game promises to be a close competition. Although Indiana Tech had its best season in history last year, finishing with a 14-7 record, the Lady Warriors (4-5-1} have struggled thus far this season. 
However, with Lady Warrior goalie Wendy Jacobs in the box, the Belles will have their work cut out. Jacobs has given up an average of just one goal per game. This may affect the Belles, who have scored four goals in each of their two wins. 
"We've improved on minimiz­ing mistakes, so ... we can· score a few goals right away," Muth said. "I think we can score more than one goal on their goalie." 
With that in the back of their minds, Saint Mary's is going to look to capitalize on its strengths -keeping the ball in possession and playing smart soccer. Because they lack speed as a whole, they will also be looking to prevent speed from becoming an issue. Playing to their strengths was what gave Saint Mary's the victory against Alma on Tuesday. 
"I think it played to our strengths of ball possession, 
playing to people's feet." Johnston said. "We played a very intelligent game." 
The Belles faced off against Indiana Tech earlier this year in a pre-season scrimmage, and although there was no unofficial winner, the Belles outscored the Lady Warriors. 
Halfway through the season, the freshmen that were unaccus­tomed to collegiate competition now seem to be ready to play. This, coupled with a solid defense, will play to the Belles' benefit today. 
"Besides the freshmen step­ping it up and really contribut­ing, our defense is making less mistakes and is playing more as a unit," Johnston said. "Our com­munication is much better and our understanding ofmy style." 
The final plus for the Belles is playing at home. The Belles have only left their home fields once in early season to play a tourna­ment in Tennessee and feel more comfortable playing at home. 
"We are so comfortable play­ing on our field," Muth said. " ... Every game we've played since the tournament has been a home game and we [will] definitely use that to our advantage." 
Competition gets under way today at 4 p.m. at the Saint Mary's soccer fields. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 
rm-

For more information contact 
CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL

Erin Kennedy at (219) 631-9835 
CONCERNS 


Thursday, September 27, 2001 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE ACROSS 36 An inspiration to 66 Dress with a 1 Staff figure Beethoven flare 6 Hull hazard 37 Server's edge, 67 Positive reply 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON your spirits. 000 10 Cast off to Sampras 68 Tum down 
THIS DAY: George Jones, Linda VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 14 Steamed 39 Broods 69 Moisten Gray, Maria Muldaur, Barry It's time to put on your thinking 
41 Sen. Bayh White, Jesse Owens, Rachel cap regarding your future direc­
15 Expression 
Ward, Michael Ondaatje tion. Sign up for interesting
16 Rhode Island's 42 Windows DOWN 
Happy Birthday: Take a look courses that will provide infor­
motto applications? 1 Band's schedule 
at yourself: full of vim and vigor mation. 0000 
17 Be affected by 44 Track specialist 2 Field goal? and ready to take on the world. LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): It's electrical 46 Work on a 3 Like most You have the charm, discipline not necessary to do all the work attraction? platter citizens and know-how to attain the vic­yourself. Just do what you can 
tory that you've been aiming for, and don't make promises to those
20 Time or life 47 Workout for 4 Like some 
so proceed with confidence and at home. Visitors may drop by
follower bratty kids at a cuisine 
stamina. You know how much unexpectedly, causing friction 00
21 It may be tipped mountain resort? 5 Charge 
you can accomplish if you focus SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):22 Next up 50 Day-care 6 Pet peeve? and are persistent. Your numbers: You need to participate. Join a 23 Israel's diversion 7 Football great I3, 22, 28, 29, 34, 37 . club that will provide stimulating Netanyahu, 51 F.8.1. figures Ronnie ARIES (March 21-April 19): conversation and challenging familiarly 52 Draft 8 Swooning sound Domestic investments will be competition, That do-or-die atti­lucrative. Get out and play. Physi­tude will make you a fierce oppo­
25 Profit share 56 Shad_ 9 Barely make 
cal activities will be rejuvenating. nent. 00000
26 Bishop 58 Part of a Latin 10 Like many 
Take time to listen to friends who SAGfITARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec21):preparing to hold trio horses have problems. Your wisdom will Don't gamble and you won't 
a yard sale? 61 Apt title for this 11 Perfect 
be welcomed. 0000 lose. It's time to get serious and 34 Young 'un puzzle 12 Big production TAURUS (April 20-May 20): make conservative investments, 35 Architectural 64 Warts and all 13 Education which will be there when you
Someone will realize that you have a good thing going and will need the money. Be smart and
order 65 No good deed station 
try to outshine you. Don't be too avoid financial worries. 000
18 They're thick­

generous with others. If you have CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19):
skinned 

an original idea or plan, be sure It's not that hard to please and
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
19 With 55-Down, to claim the credit you deserve. accommodate others. Do what where some Puzzle by Joe DIPlalro 0000 you can and they will reciprocate.things come out GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Life isn't difficult if you play by
38 Greatest 53 Hillock 57 It's near Paris 
24 Two hearts, e.g. possible You'll be especially creative the rules and do what's best for 54 What one of the 59 Rough problem today. Your boss will appreciate everyone. 00 40 "The Battleship five Olympic to face? your attention to fine detail on a AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):
26 "The Bell Jar" 
Potemkin" rings stands for difficult job. 000 Your ability to work with others
60 Brood
writer 

director CANCER (June 21-July 22): will be advantageous. Don't let 27 Arm bones Eisenstein 55 See 19-Down 62 Member of the You need some tender, loving your boss put you on the spot 56 Picnicker's first family care and may not be in the best regarding a job someone else did. 
43 Get out of a 

frame of mind. If you spend time Be diplomatic but honest. 000
29 Paramecia worry 63 Collar
slump?

features on an enjoyable hobby, you will PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 45 It stores data turn things around, 00 · Focus on self-improvement and
30 Word of 

permanently LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You feeling better about yourself.
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle
encouragement 

may lack confidence and feel You've got a lot to offer, so get
48 Disposed of, are available by touch-tone phone:
31 Help that's insecure about yourself and your busy and lend a hand. It's time 
always available with "up" 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). direction. Make plans to spend you got out and started con­32 Father of 49 Snoopy, e.g. Annual subscriptions are available for the time with friends who can lift tributing again. 0000 famous twins 52 Time of best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
Birthday Baby: You are responsive to loved ones' feelings and will
33 Some change reckoning years: 1·888·7-ACROSS. 
build a secure life at home. Your nurturing qualities bring kindness and warmth in return. (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, aslromate.com.) 
© 2001 Universal Press Syndicate

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 


FOURTH AND INCHES 
( 
FOXTROT 



I DUNNO. IT REALL'I' WASN'T GtVIN6 BLOOD B.A.D AT .A.LL. J'UST SoUNDS 
I 
So Sc.A.R'I". 
So PAINFUL. So WEIRD. 



TOM KEELEY 

C) HAVING HIS OR ... D) JUST PLAIN OUT PICTURE TAKEN? OF LAUN~Y 
BILL AMEND 
PLUS, THE PLACE I 


HEY, I 
WANT To DONATE 
WENT HAD 816 
PLA.TES OF FREE 
BLOOD!
COOKIES. 
) 
IN A FEW '!'EARS DON'T YOU CAN, PAIGE. THE.'!' 
RYAN

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNINGHAM 

I \,_o..Vt'I' 
'of/VI wii~ o. 
No matter how weli timed, this line will never impress women. 


Campus Sports OTHE National Sports
BSERVER 

. SMC Soccer, p. 26 
. Olympics, p. 21 
. 
Column -Boylan, p. 25 . American League, p. 20 

. 
Women's Gold, p.22 . NFL, p. 19 


. NCAA Basketball, p. 18
PORTS 
Thursday, September 27, 2001 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Fall season heats up 
. Irish open their home season this weekend at Tom Fallon Invite 
By RACHEL BIBER Sporrs Writer 

Although the chilling weather is making a return to South Bend, the fall season is just warming up for the Irish men's tennis team as it head into the Torn Fallon Invitational this weekend at home. 
Coming off an impressive 17-7 record and a season-ending No. 16 national ranking in 2000-01, Notre Dame brings its successful team back nearly intact and ready to show its potential to become one of the top pro­grams in the nation this year. 
"We have virtually our whole team back," Irish head coach Bob Bayliss said. "We are pretty talented -we are very deep and very experienced." 
With the exception of graduated player Matt Daly, the Irish return a squad that was ranked as high as No. 10, marking the first time since 1993 that Notre Dame held a top 10 spot. However, a few key changes in the Irish lineup might come as a surprise to fans. 
Seniors Javier Taborga and Aaron Talarico, a doubles duo that dominated com­petition throughout the year and finished ranked 20th, will not be playing together. 
"We're going to break [Taborga and Talarico] up. We are going to look at sort of splitting our strengths," Bayliss said. "They would have been the No. 3 or 4 ranked team in the country preseason." 
While Taborga and Talarico will be erased from the lineup as a doubles team, there will still be excitement in the doubles category. Taborga will pair with fellow senior Casey Smith, and Talarico will most likely team up with sophomore Luis-Haddock Morales or freshman Paul McNaughton. The pairings of Haddock-Morales/Talarico and 
see TENNIS/page 22 

WOMEN'S BLUE LEAGUE 
Chaos jails Crime in 28-0 win 
By JOE HETTLER and 
PHILLIP KOESTERER 
Sports W ricers 
Too many big plays and too much defense proved to be just too much for the Off­Campus interhall football team Tuesday night, as it fell to Cavanaugh 28-0. 
The Chaos used their pass­ing game to roll past the Crime (0-3) on their way to a 2-1 record. 
Chaos quarterback Mandy 
Reimer threw three touch­downs passes, including a 60­yard bomb to receiver Megan Land in the second quarter and another 35-yard comple­tion on the last play of the first half to Jenny Nokes. Reimer also hit Katie Burdick for a 20­yard touchdown in the first quarter to open up the scor­ing. 
"The receivers ran their routes really well and gave me big, easy targets to hit all night," said co-captain Reimer. 

The Chaos defense also got involved in the scoring. Sarah Dreznes returned an intercep­tion 20 yards for a touchdown in the fourth quarter. Cavanaugh's defense recorded a safety in the first quarter as well. 
"Give a lot of credit to the defense because they played very solid," said head coach Bart Bruckert. 
While the biggest worry for the Chaos was which team member would score next, Off­Campus had trouble just get­ting a team to the field. 
"A couple of our key players weren't there so we had to scramble to get enough people to play," said Crime co-captain Abbey Ross. 
The Crime's crambled efforts to field a team showed in their struggle to move the ball or stop Cavanaugh's offense. 
"It is going to take some 
see BLUE/page 23 

Fisher deserves more 
With 1 :42 remaining in the first quarter against Michigan State, Notre Dame's offense finally came to life at its own 20 yard line. 
Tony Fisher ran for 49 yards on six car­ries to bring the Irish to the Michigan State 26­yard line nearly sin­gle handed­ly. 
Nick Setta kicked a field goal to tie the game at 3 and the very next offensive series, Fisher was back on the bench. 
"It's going to be frustrating to any running back," Fisher said about rotating with Julius Jones. "Once you feel like you are in a groove, you feel like you should be getting the ball more and more ... I feel I deserve to run the ball. But Julius deserves to run the ball too. I've made some big plays for this team but he's made som,~ big plays for this team too. 
Fisher is too modest, too humble and too much of a team player to come right out and say it. So I'll say it for him: 
Give him the damn ball. 

Not to take anything away from Jones, but Fisher is just flat out a better back. He runs harder, hits the hole faster and shakes more tackles than Jones. Jones is great in the open field but in Kevin Rogers' run straight up the middle offense, Fisher is much more effective. 
Fisher hits the hole like he was shot out of a cannon, Jones dances up to the hole always looking for a big gain. While Jones has better big play potential, Fisher will make a gain out of a loss. 
"I am more of a power run­ner," said Fisher. who ran for 103 yards against Michigan State and scored a touchdown against Nebraska. "If I don't see a hole I might just hit it up in there and get a few yards because I feel I am just a stronger back than Julius or Terrance [Howard] is." 
But no matter how much bet­ter Fisher looks than Jones or 

Mike Connolly 
Outside Looking In 
see FISHER/page 24 


. SMC Soccer vs. Indiana Tech, Today, 4 p.m. 
OBSERVER 

. ND Women's Golf Invitational, Saturday -Sunday 
online dassifieds 
. ND Women's Soccer vs. West Virginia, Sunday, 1 p.m.AT AGLANCE . ND Volleyball vs. Georgetown, Sunday, 2 p.m. http://www.nd.edu/~observer 







