
-----------· ------------­
Bye, bye VHS
RAIN 

Thursday 
Movie Editor Matt Nania writes that time may be 
HIGH 54° 
NOVEMBER 8,
running out for the VCR -two years and counting.
LOW33° 
Scene . page 12 
2001 

THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL. XXXV NO. 47 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



Nerlinger puts Stanford victory in JEOPARDY! 
Stanford University junior. on a "Numb with Numbers," "Ranks didn't know," Nerlinger said. In Double JEOPARDY!
• Senior finishes in 
college version of the popular and Titles" and "When in .. .'' "Everyone told me the trick Nerlinger correctly answeredclose second on game show. Nerlinger demonstrated the would be the buzzer." · both "Daily Doubles" to earn an Wednesday show "I thought I would be really most success in the "Instant According to Nerlinger, con­additional $1600. 
nervous but it was impossible to Messenger" and "When in ... " testants only have a narrow win-"I got all three Daily Doubles 
be," Nerlinger said after the categories. He dow to "buzz but I wasn't confident enough to By ANDREW THAGARD show aired. "It was just so surre­betted and lost 
in." If a player bet a lot," he said. New• Writer al." $600 in the presses .the At the end of Double JEOP­
Nerlinger and Kailasanath first "Daily buzzer before ARDY!. Kailasanath lead the 
Andrew Nerlinger "asked" his competed closely throughout th~ Double" of the host Alex group with $7700, Nerlingcr way to second place in first round and second round game, failing Trebek finishes won $6000 and Green earned Wednesday's college edition of while Green trailed the two for to correctly reading the $1800. JEOPARDY! The Notre Dame most of the game. identify a line from the movie question, they are "locked out" The final JEOPARDY' round senior competed against Jaime First round categories includ­"Dude, Where's my Car?" for a fraction of a second giving featured a question from the Green, a Brown University fresh­ed "The Lone Star State," "Movie "There were probably three or the other contestants an oppor­man. and Vinita Kailasanath, a Taglines," "Instant Messenger," four questions fn the game I tunity to answer it. see SHOW/page 4 

SMC students express e-mail worries 
By NELLIE WILLIAMS 
News Writer 
Before heading off to class on Wednesday morning, Saint Mary's College junior Kelly Rizzi checks her e­mail for any important messages. Her inbox comes up and indicates that she has 20 new messages. Surprised, she scans down the screen and sees that they are all from Saint Mary's students. She opens the first one and reads it. 
"Two GA's for sale." 
The next one she opens is from some­one looking for one GA. Frustrated, she deletes the rest of the e-mails that indi­cate they are from someone at Saint Mary's. 
"I must get at least 10 mass e-mails a day," Rizzi said. "More during a football week because everyone is looking for tickets or trying to sell them." 
Mass e-mailing has become a com­puter bug, catching almost everyone on Saint Mary's campus. A student only needs to type in each class name and they are able to send a message to every student who uses the college e­mail. Although inass e-mailing is often used to inform the student body of cur­rent events happening on campus, it has been abused lately with students trying to buy and sell football tickets, looking for rides home or who have lost an item. 
Just when she thought the mass e­mailing would settle down because football season was almost over and no one would be trying to sell tickets any­more, junior Anne Bill is still receiving many. 
"Someone tried to sell a ticket for a basketball game," said Bill. "I thought, 'Oh gosh, not this again now."' 
"I once received a mass e-mail from a girl who had lost her toenail clippers in the bathroom and was wondering if anyone found them," said Rizzi. 
Only a few hours after receiving that e-mail, Rizzi had 20 more new e-mails with the same subject of toenail clip­pers. 
"People were complaining about that one e-mail and then someone else would complain about the next one. It j~st ~oesn't stop. H's like a chain reac­t10n. 
The mass e-mailing caught on last fall when someone discovered all that was needed to reach the whole campus was to type in the class name and then add @saintmarys.edu. 
"It's always been that everyone has had access to e-mailing the student body, just nobody knew about it before one class started it," said student body president Michelle Nagle. 'Then class governments started to pick it up too." 
Once discovered, however. no one forgot about it. 
"[We] recognized it as a problem we needed to look into and decide what to do about the misuse and abuse of it," said Nagle. 
Board of Governance began dis­cussing the problem of mass e-mails toward the end of last April during its 
annual retreat. Elizabeth Cusick, Informational Technology commission­er for BOG., then put together a propos­. al on how to maintain the mass e-mails. without loosing the importance of its 
use for educational purposes. 
"rt was an issue BOG thought in gen­
eral we needed to address," Cusick 
said. 
Many students have become increas­ingly frustrated with the mass e-mails. BOG sent out an e-mail earlier in the fall asking students to stop abusing the e-mail class lists. When the e-mail 
-see E-MAIL/page 4 
Malloys says ND needs faculty senate· 
. University president also talks about economic woes at annual senate address 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News Editor 
Father Edward Malloy, University presi­dent, made an appeal Wednesday to the Faculty Senate to not dissolve, despite the body's struggle in recent years to gain power from adminis­
trators and from other  respectfaculty  See Also  
members.  "Joint committee  
"I believe that we need a faculty senate,"  closer to reality"  
Malloy said during his  page 7  
annual address to the  

group. "It's traditionally been a vehicle for the faculty to have an advocate and a voice that can articulate colleagues' con­cerns to the administration or the Academic Council." 
But more important than the question of whether the senate should exist was the issue of the body's ability to effect change, Malloy said. 
"It's a matter of to what extent do thing that arise in the faculty, through the sen­ate, have a chance of being resolved," he said. 
The embattled senate voted to dissolve itself in May, at the urging of then-senate 
·chair Jean Porter. Newly elected senators 
rescinded the vote and opted not to dis­
band. 
This fall, senate chair Jacqueline Brogan has led efforts to restructure the senate, reform targeted at changing prevailing attitudes among administrators and facul­ty who perceive the senate as powerless and ineffective. 
In fact, the senate has little formal authority. 
While the senate can pass resolutions and place issues on the Academic Council agenda, the senate lacks power to even disband. Although members voted in May to dissolve the senate, the change would have needed approval from the Academic 
see MALLOY/page 7 page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, November 8, 2001 
INSIDE COLUMN THIS WEEK IN AT NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY_'S 
A call to end 
mass e-mails 
Imagine this: about 2,000 random people have access to your e-mail address. They can annoy you with various advertisements for makeup services, tickets and goldfish for sale or spinning classes, all very unsolicited, mind you. You can do nothing about this, but must waste Teresa Fralish 20 to 30 minutes of your day reading and deleting such aggravating mes­sages. Of course, this is the Copy Editor circumstance here at Saint Mary's. 
Now, until today these mass e-mails were not a major source of frus­tration for me. but only an annoying little task to be accomplished. However, as I checked my inbox this afternoon, I found something radi­cally different from the usual "need 2 tenn tix." The e-mail appeared under the rather innocent title of "Women's Health at Saint Mary's College." However, it was sent by a somewhat audacious group of students advertising, among other things, free access to the morning after pill, pregnancy testing, condoms (you could even pick these up from the students' dorms). and abortion clinic escorts. It was that last one that really incensed me. 
I don't deny that these students have the right to free speech and I am a whole-hearted supporter of academic freedom. No doubt many Saint Mary's students are interested in what these women have to say and this isn't a column against abortion activists, although I could easily write one. Nonetheless, I should not be forced, in my own personal email box, to read an advertisement for something which I find extremely offensive. 
In any other e-mail program I would be able to block this type of e-mail. These students' action is extremely rude and discourteous. In my opinion, this group of women shows absolutely no respect for their fellow students. Can they not find some other, less offensive, way to advertise their questionable activities? 
Why must I be forced to have my supposedly personal e-mail box polluted with this trash? We have been told time and time again that the Board of Governance is looking into the matter. But they drag their fe_et. They have known about this problem since the start of the year _ and yet have done nothing. Wednesday The Observer reported that the BOG believes they could implement their Listserv plan by this January at the very earliest. Rudeness and dis­respect aren't going wait for the BOG. 
I suppose one of these students might be a minority. Perhaps they would have a similar reaction to mine if I sent out an e-mail adver­tising free information about various racist groups in the South Bend area. I don't doubt that I would have many people besides minori­ties up in arms. Is this the path we are heading down? 
This matter cannot be ignored any longer. Something must be done about the mass e-mail problem now, before someone is truly hurt. In its attempt to increase communication, this email policy was created, but has been serious­ly abused. These audacious women have clear­ly crossed the line between communication and outright disrespect. For the sake of the college and the dignity of its students, Saint Mary's Student Affairs Office must find a way to screen such e-mails before they reach the entire stu­dent body. Immediately. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at fral6395@saint­marys.edu The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 


CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regard. itself as a profe.sional publication and mives for the highest standards of journalism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us ar 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during e..am and Y.1Cation period.. The Ob.ervec is a member ofrhc Associated Press. All reproduction rights a.re reserved. 
Thursday  Friday  Saturday  Sunday  
. Concert: Saint Mary's  . Ceremony: Veteran's  . Concert: "The Mad  . Vespers: Lady Chapel of  
women's choir, O'Laughlin  Day Recognition, Clarke  Buckgoat," O'Laughlin  Sacred Heart Basilica, 7  
Auditorium, Moreau  Memorial Fountain.  Auditorium, Moreau  p.m.  
Center, 7:30 p.m.  Fieldhouse Mall, 4 p.m.  Center, 7:30 p.m.  
. Film: "Taste of Cherry,"  . FIim: "Cities of the  . Karaoke: The Huddle,  
Carey Auditorium,  Dead," Room C-103,  Lafortune Student Center,  
Hesburgh Library, 7 p.m.  Hesburgh Center. 7 p.m.  10 p.m.  

Compiled from U-Wire reports 

BEYOND CAMPUS 
Legislature cuts U. Nebraska budget by $20M 
LINCOLN, Neb. The first step involves the short­
As bills that aim to cut University run challenge of identifying reduc­of Nebraska's budget by nearly $20 
tions from available uncommitted million over the next two years resources. The step-one phase will advanced through tho Legislature take place without elaborate plan­Tuesday, speakers at the Academic ning or prioritization and will be a Senate meeting expressed, of all temporary strategy until step two is things, gratitude. completed. 
"I never thought I would be happy Step two will incorporate more and excited about receiving only a permanent reductions into the base $20 million cut," said University of budget that take effect after the Nebraska-Lincoln Chancellor Legislature determines the final Harvey Perlman, "but I find myself numbers to be imposed on the uni­oddly in that position." erning budget reactions will be versity. Principles governing the 
The proposed cuts are pared accomplished in a two-step process. second step will be more specific 
down from Gov. Mike Johanns' He said the planning process has and final. originally planned cut of $38.8 mil-been underway for the las..t six However. because of the unpre­lion for the NU system. · weeks, and college deans already dictable economy, the second step 
Although the amount of the cut have submitted preliminary cut would be open to future modifica­
The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon, Thursday, Nov. 8. 
FRONTS: 
.......... ........... ........... 
WARM STATTONARY

G 2001 Accuweathor, Inc. COLD , 
PIHIUfl'.' 
® © D EJ Ull D D D 
,..
High Low Showara Rain T•alorm ¦ · Flurrta ¦ Snow Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
VIM A:.scx.iarad Pm,;a 
Atlanta 74 50 Las Vegas 78 55 Portland 54 42 Baltimore 68 45 Memphis 73 44 Sacramento 77 44 Boston 53 47 Milwaukee 49 33 St. Louis 61 36
q_Q_~A,QQ~~u 
Chicago 54 34 New York 58 47 Tampa 80 60 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow lea Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
Houston 79 60 Philadelphia 65 49 wash DC 69 48 
Via AaociafBd Pres~ Gr.pfucsNet 
has not been finalized yet, Perlman scenarios. said the university's principle gov-
U. ARIZONA 
Student, wife slain in apartment 
TUCSON, Ariz 
The murder of a University of Arizona chemistry stu­dent and his wife Saturday night left fellow students with questions and neighbors in fear, as police continue to investigate. 
Police found the bodies of chemistry doctoral student Jianquing Yang, 32, and his wife, Yu Yun Chen, 33, slain on Saturday morning. 
The Tucson Police Department responded to their apartment on the 2500 block of N. Country Club Road after their 6-year-old daughter called 911 and reported­ly said she could not wake up her parents. 
TPD homicide detectives are in the preliminary stages of the investigation. · 
Teachers at the University of Arizona chemistry department described Yang as quiet, which his advising professor said was rare in people with his determina­tion. 
Yang was also devoted to his family. His wife and child regularly visited the department. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather~ forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

tions, Perlman said. · 
U. HAWAII 


INS requests records on foreigners 
HONOLULU 
If the Immigration and Naturalization Service finds extensive student visa violations in their perusal of the more than 600,000 international students studying in the United States, new regulations and laws could be enact­ed, according to a local INS official. 
Don Radcliffe, INS district director, subpoenaed infor­mation on all international students at three universities in Hawaii: the University of Hawaii at Manoa, Hawaii Pacific University and Chaminade University of Honolulu. 
The information, requested on Oct. 26, includes the names, birth dates, places of birth, addresses and acade­mic status of the more than 1,000 foreign students enrolled at UH-Manoa. The information will be compared to current INS information, Radcliffe said, and student visa noncompliance would be investigated. 
The 1,323 foreign students at UH Manoa are from 77 countries, according to Spring 2001 International Student Seryices data. The majority of them are graduate students. 
------------------· --· -­
Thursday, November 8, 200I The Observer . CA.l\1PUS NEWS page 3 
Saint Mary's hosts Showcase of Careers today 
By KATIE RAND 
N.-ws Wri ter 
Saint Marv's will host the annual Sho;vcase of Careers today from in the LeMans Hall lobby. The event is sponsored by the Boar<l ofGovernance and the Counseling & Career Developriient Center. 
"The purpose of Showcase is to educate students about the dif­ferent types of careers tl.at are out there after graduation," David Wilkeson, from the Counseling and Career Development Center said. Most majors are targeted, including Biology, Chemistry, Business, Communication, Education, Nursing. Liberal Arts and Social Sciences. 
Students can also find out about various internships, sum­mer employment, educational programs of study and volunteer positions. By attending, students will have the opportunity to gain beneficial knowledge of the job market through speaking infor­mally with employer representa­tives. They will also have the chance to meet successful Saint Mary's alumnae, explore differ­ent career path and network. 
Saint Mary's student Brandy Jans attended the event last fall as a freshman. 
"f think it's important to go, especially if you have no idea what you want to do after gradu­ation," Brandy said. "It can be beneficial because you get a chance to learn about different careers. And if you really open up and talk to the company rep­resentatives, you can find out about different opportunities that are out there and it can help you decide what you want todo." 
Thirty companies and organi­zations, including those with Saint Mary's alumnae, will be attending the program from 3 to 5 p.m. to accept resumes, distrib­ute applications and information, and meet students. 
"Showcase was helpful because it was an informal set-

he fQb..6-KAPLAN 12..eview Day 
6arurday. N°". Ol:h @O ~hag_ R'}O m5 204 2o6. 207 
10:00-?-.~ anJ 208 
l(J:00-t?:30a m 12egistrati?n k?:30-ll20am lnbvdud~n to day's e-lenl:s ll30-12:20 Cwce of worksh?ps
Logic (iames (applies, to all 3 e.aams) 12aiding Comprehension (all 3 e;gJm,s) 
DabJ !lulficiency (Q.1AT)
fundamenb.Ls. of Arsumcnb (L..!lATI 1230-ll5pm LJJrt:h l15-2:15_prrr QEA with ad"isors 
.220-3::XJpm Cwr:e of workswps 
[THE ALLEY] 

ting and laid back, so it made it easier for me to talk to the com­panies," said Saint Mary's junior Katie Zigler, who attended Showcase last fa!L "It gave me practice for future interviews, and was nice because a variety of different companies were there." 
Some of the organizations attending are American Express Financial Advisors, ChildrcnFirst, Inc., Federal Bureau of Investigation, Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, Holy Cross Associates, Indiana Legal Services, Memorial Jlospital of South Bend, Northwestern 
In par1ner-.,11Ip
A U T O M A T -I O N 
wilh lhe 
Michigan Economic
A L L y™­
Development Corporation 
I 
University Medill School of Journalism, United States Air Force, and WBYf & WRBR FM_ 
More information and a com­plete listing of participating busi• 
nesses is available at www.saintmarys.edu/-ccdc. 
Contact Katie Rand at rand8903@saintmarys.edu 
ll 259-iooo for more details 

Automation Alley, the nation's newest and fast~st growing technbt.~gy cluster is way out ahead when it comes to exciting opportunities and a great way of l~e. It's under­standable why some of the world's leading corporations have_chosen to headq!Jarter here. More than 88,000 ·acres of parkland. 460 pristine lakes. Over 100 golf courses. Attractive, diverse communities. Competitive salaries and a cost of living that offers a ·big Ic,, _,r~ or, those salaries in one of the country's hottest settings-Oakland County, Michigan. . 
Indicator  Automation Alley (Oakland County)  Route 128 (Middlesex County)  Silicon Valley (Santa Clara County}  
Median Housing Price  $192,337  $284,609  $463,234  
Professional Salaries  
Mechanical Engineer  $64,227  $61,217  $68,298  
Electrical Engineer  $67,410  $64,202  $71,550  
Computer Programmer  $54,184  $51,602  $57,821  
Computer Analyst  $68,895  $65,617  $73,092  
Job Growth Since '97  4.0%  5.5%  3.2%  
Cost of Living Allowance  114.3  121.9  141.7  
Average ; 100  .  

Check out-new Jobs now@ www.automationalley.com Interested in Internships? Cruise the web siter 
page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November 8, 200 I 

continued from page 1 
numbers continued to peak each week as a football game approached, BOG deciled it was time to step up with a poli­cy. 
"We sent the policy to stu­dents and asked for feedback about a month ago," said Nagle. 
This past Monday, BOG dis­cussed student reactions they received and unanimously decided to submit the polky to the Dr.Linda Timm and the stu­dent affairs committee. 
"Most of the feedback we received was · asking us to 
"Most ofthe feedback 
please do feels that she something we received was asking has the right about the prob­to have
us to please do 
Jem." said access to
something about the 
Nagle. class lists. "Students are problem. Students were "I feel that I very, very frus­have a right
very. very frustrated." 
trated." to e-mail my 
Under the e­colleagues mail proposal. Michelle Nagle and that each student student body president everyone 
Campus activities, athletics, arts and current events will all fall under list-serves. A student may unsubscribe from a list­serve at any time. 
A concern that came up as BOG proposed the policy was freedom of speech. However, now students are more con­cerned with how they are going to communicate on campus now. 
"Not so many people are con­cerned that the policy will infringe on their rights, but that they feel e-mail is a good way to communicate to the campus and it is now being taken away from them," said Cusick. "They won't directly have that benefit anymore." 
Junior 
Linda Padilla 
will still be sub­scribed to her class list without the option of being able to unsubscribe, but the information sent out to the list will be limited and filtered through each corresponding class board. If a student wishes to send an e-mail to a list, she would first have to e-mail it to the board. The board will then decide if the e-mail meets the guidelines depending on the information it includes. 
The College president, vice president of student affairs, Information Technology, dean of faculty. registrar's office, and the five major boards of gov­ernment. will also have access to the class e-mails. 
Students may also subscribe to as many list-serves as. they wish to receive additional infor­mation of what might interest them. 
should be 
able to handle the e-mails in a mature way," Padilla said. "If a student is constantly abusing the system, then that is when they should lose their class-lists access." 
Other students feel strongly that Information Technology should monitor the list serves. 
"I think Informational Technology should monitor the e-mails. They know that people are going to abuse it," said senior Colleen Weigel. 
Often inboxes are so cluttered with mass e-mails that students do not know which are impor­tant to read. 
"l think it's getting out of con­trol," junior Jena Morreale said. "l like the fact that some people have subject headings, though. Then it is easier to know which are mass e-mails and which are important e­
..... NW& 
.-'YOUR PAMILY PUN QNTER"
••,,••1 .,•• 
MONDAYS & THURSDAYS 
9P-. 12 MIDNIGHT 
UNUMffliD BOWLING 
p¢:ii;~.o;l!R PERSON 
SHOES INCLUDED Beacon Bowl-421 O Uncolnway W.. South Bend ZSW167 
Study Abroad with Syracuse University 
Hong Kong, China 
Pursue full-time, professional internships during an intensive four-week module after your international business classes. Get hands-on experience in a mu!tinatlonal corporation In Hong Kong, one of the major entrepots of the global economy 
Call for information 

mails." 
"It's hard to find the impor­tant e-mails when your inbox is cluttered with football ticket e­mails. It's better just to put up signs so people can contact you -you don't have to infringe on them," said freshman Stephanie Grammens. 
"I think there should be some sort. of screening process because it takes up too much time to go through 50 messages and you sometimes miss the important ones," said senior Jessica Hickey. 
As well as list serves, a "black message board" is currently being set up on the Saint Mary's web page for students to be able to put up messages about tickets, lost or found items, or anything else that might be of interest to the stu­dents body. 
"This will be a good tool for Saint Mary's College to use. It will pick up the slack on ticket sales, news and current events," said Cusick. "Students can pull the information they want." 
These changes take time, though. 
"At first there might be a lot of resistance to have a black­board," said senior Drusilla Mowl. ''It just takes time with technology to get used to." 
Cusick feels confident about the new policy. Now that BOG. has endorsed it, they will pass it on to Dr. Linda Timm, vice president for Student Affairs. 
"(BOG] would like to see it implemented," said Cusick. "After it is reviewed it will be passed on to Informational Technology's and they will take the necessary steps that the students want." 
BOG wanted to make sure this policy reflected what the students wanted. 
"[We] really wanted the pro­posal to come from the stu­dents," said Nagle. 
Contact Nellie Williams at will6176@saintmarys.edu 
PARIS, FRANCE 
Study Political Science, International Relations, Sociology, Economics, and Modem History in the Heart ofParis at Science Po, one ofEurope's most Prestigious Institutions 
Meet with Claudia Kselman, Associate Director, Returnees of the Program, and Exchange Students 
INFORMATION MEETING November 8, 2001 
•
•
5:00 PM 

• 
' 
, 
• 
t 
. . 
' 
Show 
continued from page l 
category "Legendary Characters." The answer read by Trebek, was "Led by Nicholas, a German boy, the Children's Crusade of 1212 may have been the inspiration for this character." 
Kailasanath correctly answered "the Pied Piper" to retain her lead while Nerlinger incorrectly guessed "Peter Pan," but did not bet enough money to lose his second place position. 
"J was trying to decide between the two [the Pied Piper and Peter PanJ but 
chose Peter "JEOPARDY! really 'Actually Mr. Pan based on Trebek, it's !Notre
comes down to 
the word Dame) a Holy Cross
whether or not you 
' b o y • ' " school," he said. 
Nerlinger get the final question. " The correction said. "JEOP­was not present in ARDY! really the final edition. 
Andrew Nerlinger
comes down Nerlinger, a long­to whether or Notre Dame senior time fan of the 
not you get 
the final ques­
tion. I thought it was a little too 
factless. It just seemed way out 
there." 
Of the three, Kailasanath is guaranteed to move on to the semi-finals next week. Nerlinger could also make the next round of competition depending on the success of the remaining four groups of contestants. 
"That's the way it goes," Nerlinger said of his perfor­mance in the game. "I had a great time. I was pretty happy with how I did. I gave her [Kailasanath] a run." 
This year's JEOPARDY! College Championship edition was taped at the Pauley Pavilion on UCLA's campus. Nerlinger flew to California and stayed in the Beverly Hills Hilton on an all-expenses-paid trip for the show's Oct. 6-7 taping. 
Between tapings, Nerlinger enjoyed spending time with the 
University ofNotre Dame 
International Study Program in 
other contestants. 
"All the players were really nice," he said. "On Saturday and Sunday nights we would hang out. We had a really good time." 
Nerlinger also had an oppor­tunity to talk with JEOPARDY! Host Alex Trcbek both on and off camera. In yesterday's episode, Trebek asked Nerlinger about the fund he established to send disadvantaged people to Notre Dame football games. 
According to Nerlinger, how­ever. the rest of their conversa­tion was cut out in the editing process. Nerlinger addressed the game show host as "Mr. Trebek," which the host attrib­utr,d to the studr,nt's .Jesuit edu­
cation. 
"I said to him, 
show. competed in 
an intensive selec­tion process against 2000 col­lege students from across the country for his slot. 
The Notre Dame senior is working on a math and philoso­phy double major and plans to attend medical school. Nerlinger watched last night's show with a group of students at LaFortune. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at thagard. l@nd.edu 
e11l)t1Jl()l.1.S
FLEECE 
Sele 
· 
Sminute from CIUTPCIST 
Ca u 

ATION 
Thursday, November 8, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Two gunmen kill judge in Spain: 
Suspected separatists shot a judge to death in northern Basque country Wednesday, police said, jusl one day after a Madrid car bombing injured nearly 100 people. The successive attacks, blamed on the Basque group ETA, dashed hopes that the separatists might disarm in the wake of the Sept. 11 terror attacks in the United States, following the load of the Irish Republican Army. More than 800 people have been killed during ETA's 33-ycar drive for an independent Basque homeland. 
World population may reach 10.9B: 
The world's population could skyrocket to 10.9 billion people by 2050 if women do not gain better access to education and health care. Women must receive adequate reproductive health care and have equal status to men and the right to plan the size of their families if the planet is to rein in its population the U .N. Population Fund said. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Ore. sues U.S. over assisted suicide: 
The state of Oregon sued the U.S. government Wednesday over a federal directive that essen­tially blocks the state's assisted-suicide law. The lawsuit, liled by Attorney General Hardy ~yers in U.S. District Court, seeks to temporari­ly prevent the federal government from imple­menting a new order barring doctors from pre­scribing federally controlled substances to has­ten the deaths of terminally ill patients. 
Senate panel votes on Cuba trade: 
A Senate committee voted Wednesday to loosen restrictions on food exports to Cuba by allowing private U.S. financing of sales.The measure is part of the trade section of farm legislation being developed by the Senate Agriculture Committee. The panel approved the trade portion on Wednesday by voice vote. The committee is not expected to finish work on the full bill before next week. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Officials control jail population: 
People arrested in Vanderburgh County on charges such as shoplifting or driving on a suspended license could be less likely to go immediately to jail in the future. In an effort to reduce jail overcrowding, the sheriff's department has drafted a memo for its deputies reminding them that they have dis­cretion to make noncustodial arrests for cer­tain crimes. Suspects who are not taken into custody are typically given an order to appear in court later and released without a jail stay. 
Market Watch November 7 
Dow 9,554.37 -36.75 

Composite]~ Same: 
Volume: 
1,407,970,048
~ 200 
AMEX: 821.98 +4.55 NASDAQ: 1,837.53 +2.45 NYSE: 568.48 -1.81 S&P 500; 1,115.80 -3.06 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURl"J:v %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +2.49 +0.45 18.93 ENRON CORP (ENE) -5.41 -0.52 9.05 NASDAQ-100 INDE. (QQQ) 0.00 0.00 38.19 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) +l. 51 +0.20 12.59 INTEL CORP (INT() +0.14 +0,04 28.29 
Senators seek Americorps growth 
be increased security require­reserve duty and earn an $18.000
Associated Press 
ments," McCain, R-Ariz., said at a bonus at the end of the service. 
WASHINGTON news conference announcing the McCain said he envisions the 
AmeriCorps, set up eight years bill he's sponsoring with Bayh, D­short-term recruits replacing ago to encourage young people to Ind. "If we can fulfill part of that National Guard troops guarding the do public service, should be requirement with programs like Capitol, nuclear power plants or expanded to include work on home­these, I think it will save the tax­water systems. land defense, Sens. John McCain payer a significant amount of The bill also would assign a com-• and Evan Bayh said Wednesday. money." mittee to find new ways for seniors 
The senators are seeking a five­The legislation also would encour­to volunteer and, after 500 hours of fold increase in the program, bring­age military recruiting by doubling work, offer $1,000 the volunteer ing the number of volunteers to scholarship benefits to $15,600 and can use for a child's education. 250,000 by 2010. with 100.000 of offering a short-term military House Republicans tried to elimi­the new volunteers devoted to secu­enlistment plan. Participants could nate funding for AmeriCorps last rity needs, such as public health sign up for 18 months of active duty summer but later restored money to programs and disaster relief. -instead of the minimum of two the program, which was promoted 
"No one argues there is going to years -followed by 18 months of by President Clinton. 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Bush and British Prime Minister Tony Blair, allies in the war on terrorism, confi­dently offered back-to­back pledges of victory on Wednesday, no matter how long it takes. 
At their joint White House news conference, Bush again cautioned patience, saying the anti­terror fight "is not one of these Kodak moments" but was steadily making progress. 
"We're patient and our close friends are patient, which is bad news for the Taliban and the people they harbor,n Bush said, referring to Afghanistan's ruling militia. 
Blair said the objectives were to shut down the al­Qaida terror network, oust the Taliban and replace it with "a new regime that is broad­based" and offers the peo­ple of Afghanistan a sta­ble, progressive future. "I have absolutely no doubt at all that we will achieve them in full, and we will not let up until we do," Blair said. 
Even as they predicted victory over al-Qaida, Bush and Blair both said they were working to achieve peace in· the Middle East. "There's no doubt in my mind. We'll bring al-Qaida to justice, peace or no peace in the Middle East," said the president. 
Blair, seconding that, 
accused al-Qaida master­mind Osama bin Laden of trying to "hijack the Palestinian cause" for his own purposes, and vowed"we will strain every sinew we possibly can" to make progress on an Israeli-Palestinian peace deal. 
Bush, looking ahead to next week's meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin, said he had made a decision on how far American nuclear weapons stockpiles could be cut. But he declined to provide any details, say­ing, "I can't wait to share that information" with the Russian leader. 
"We don't need an arms control agreement to con­vince us to reduce our nuclear weapons down substantially, and I'm going to do it," he said. 
Bush came to office sup­porting development of a missile defense program and saying the Cold War­era Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty prohibiting such technology was outdated. 
He said that if Putin has "some interesting sugges­tions on how to make the ABM treaty not outdated and not outmoded, I'm more than willing to lis­ten." 
Neither the president nor the prime minister offered any specifics to support their optimism on terrorism, and there was no mention at the news conference of calls for a bombing halt in the month long air war over Afghanistan. 
• • • "'• • • ... '"'"' <o • 0, • • = 9 • If <'. I •• ; T. , •. f • 9". ; _-"'..'-/I!,~_,.: .•_ -• _ .. ~ •• •--•• •._,t 
page 6 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, November 8, 200 l 
Ministrv 
-d~ll
RCIA Study Session 
6:30 p.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 

807 Mass 
8:00 p.m. lounge, Coleman-Morse Center 
Freshman Retreat #37 . Sacred Heart Parish Center 
Marriage Preparation Retreat 
Fatima Retreat Center 

RCIA Retreat 
Coleman-Morse CentBI' 
Law School Mass
•
5:00 p..m. law School Chapel 
MBA Mass 
7:00 p..m. Mendoza College of Business Chapel 

The Way Bible Study 
8:30 p:.m. 
331 Co!eman-M0tse Center 

¦ Presiders 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Saturday, November 10 Mass 
5:00p.m. 
Rev. David J. Scheidler, c.s.c. Sunday, November 11 Mass 
10:00a.m. Rev. Garv S. Chamberland, c.s.c. 11:45a.m. 
Rev. James K. Foster, c.s.c. 
¦ Sunday's  
Scripture Readings  
1st Reading  Wis11:22-12:2  
2nd Reading  2 Thes 1: 11-2: 2  
Gospel  Lk 19: 1-10  

Life Changed, Not Ended 
¦ By Fr. Bill Wack, CSC, Director of the Freshman Retreat Program 
November is the time of the year when our thoughts turn to our beloved dead. This seems appropriate, as the days are getting cold~r and shorter, the trees around here are starting to look barren, and the Scripture readings at Mass focus on the Second Coming of Christ. The recent celebrations of All Saints' Day, All Souls' Day, and ei Dia de Los Muertos serve to remind us of our obligation to remember those who have gone before us. But death is not just something that affects us in the Fall; it is with us constantly. If you listen to the Prayers of rhe Faithful you almost always hear someone in the congregation praying for a relative or friend who has recently died. In a large community like chis, we are bound to experience tragedy on a fairly regular basis, unfortunately. 
What are we co chink of death and those who have died? How do we support our friends and classmates who have lost loved ones? Is there anything we can do for rhe deceased? 
Christians have always believed that, although the death ofa loved one brings a tremendous loss to us, it is a birth into eternal life. From the Funeral Liturgy we pray, "When the body of our earthly dwelling lies in death, we gain an everlasting dwelling place in Heaven." Yes, it is tragic that we cannot see or touch or hear our friend or relative again. Death robs us of our physical contact with che other person, it brings a tremendous amount ofgrief (and maybe even guilt). It sometimes makes us feel cut off from God and from others around us. 
When we experience the death of someone close to us, we need to be reassured. We need to be reminded ofour belief in the Resurrection and eternal life with God. We need others to console us and listen to us and pray with us. We need to remember all the good we were permitted to experience with the person who has died. Sometimes we need to be alone, ocher rimes we want co be with others who will listen. St. Paul offers excellent advice for those who want to support grieving friends: "Comfort one another with assurances of faith." 
The greatest assurance we can give someone is to remind them that their loved one has not ceased to exist. In fact, they are now living more fully than any of us on earth are. The souls of the just are still connected to us in our hearts, our memories, and -especially -in our prayers. Nothing can separate us from the love that we share in Christ ... nothing. The dead are very much a part of the Body of Christ, and as such, are in need of our prayers even as they intercede for us. 
Should we pray for the dead? Absolutely. Praying for the souls of the departed unites us with them even as it aids them in their final journey to Heaven. In che book of Maccabees che faithful people offered intercessions for the dead as a way to strengthen their own belief in the Resurrection. St. Paul often mentioned in his letters (and prayers) those who have died in the peace of Christ. Almost all of us pray for those who are living, for whatever intention those people have. Why stop when the person has died? We are still connected with them through our prayers, and they may need our help now more than ever. 
There are many things we can do to remember our beloved dead. A powerful way to pray for. them is to have a Mass offered for them. (You can do this through the Basilica offices or you can ask your rector how to do this.) Also, you will notice an open book just in front of the sanctuary in the Basilica and in many chapels on campus as well. Feel free to inscribe the name of the dead in one of those books, and to pray for the names of those already there. Visit a cemetery and ask that God receive the souls of those whose bodies are there into Heaven. Offer small sacrifices during the day for the good ofthe souls in Purgatory. Most ofall, call ro mind the good things you shared with your friend or relative, and keep them alive in your heart. 
We have to admit that death is a difficult subject. From a human point ofview, it is a tragedy, a horrible loss. But death is not the final answer! The Resurrection ofJesus Christ has opened the gates of Heaven to all who follow and believe. Especially during the momh ofNovember, let us pray for the dead and for chose who mourn their passing. May our prayers strengthen our faith and our communion with our brothers and sisters. And know that we will see our beloved dead again -in the Resurrection of the Just. 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 

---~-­
Thursday, November 8, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Malloy 
continued from page 1 
Council, Malloy and the Board of Trustees. 
"It shouldn't be surprising that there have been instances when the faculty has been frustrat­ed, when adminis­trators h a v c b e e n frustrated 
It's been my experience of relat­ing to faculty individually that Notre Dame is a great place to be," Malloy said. "There's temperaments, personalities, people who you like more than others. But in general, this is a great place to be an 

administrator." 'We had very dramatic and pledges, !n past years, respectively.
gains in certain kinds 
Malloy has "Those are
ofinvestments. l'Ve
turned to the factors we senate for were also lucky to sell will have to input on the continue to
them before they had 
Untverity's sex­monitor," he
dramatic drops. " 
ual harassment said. policy. he said. Malloy also Notre Dame Father Edward Malloy alluded professors also vaguely to
University president
play key roles on an advisory committee to Provost Nathan Hatch and the faculty com­mittee on athletics that reports to Malloy. 
"It's been a very vibrant group and has historically had a good relationship with the administration," Brogan said of the senate. 
"This group could be so interesting and so vital that my life could be a lot more difficult," Malloy joked. 
In other business, Malloy 
expressed concern about the economic impact that the Sept. 11 attacks will have on Notre Dame. 
The most evident sign of the financial woes possibly in store for the University was the loss on the record-break­ing endowment returns. Notre Dame's 60 percent return on its $3 billion endowment was the highest of any school last fiscal year. About 17 percent of that return has been lost. 
"Even with the downturn in the economy and benchmark­ing other schools, we are doing reasonably well," the University president said. "We had very dramatic gains in certain kinds of investments. We were also lucky to sell them before they had dramat­ic drops." 
Malloy said other indicators of economic decline would become clear next semester, as families and donors strug­gle'd with paying tuition 
the feasibility 
of future campus construction initia­tives. The University has announced plans for expand­
ed  engineering  and  law  
school facilities and a  new  
hotel.  

"Each of these projects requires funding before we can move ahead. Very seldom is a building totally funded by a benefactor." 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley.l@nd.edu 
FACULTY SENATE 
Joint committee closer to reality 
. Senate, Academic Council to explore faculty governance 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News Editor 
At the recommendation of Provost Nathan Hatch, nine fac­ulty senators and Academic Council members will explore the possibility of a joint committee between the two bodies, senate chair Jacqueline Brogan said. 
The move advanced the cause of an embattled senate to this year redefine its role in faculty governance at the University. 
"The Academic Council is incredibly interested in keeping the senate going," Brogan told the senate at its regular meeting Wednesday. 
At the Academic Council's meeting this week, the provost encouraged the formation of a of the nine-member board to look into the restructuring the senate. Seated will be the five members of the senate's executive commit­tee, including Brogan, and the Academic Council member's who sit on both that body's executive and faculty affairs committees. 
The senate at its Oct. 10 meet­ing announced plans for a joint committee with the Academic Council and intentions to cut the senate's membership by nearly a third. 
For a body that has fought with itself over the issue of whether to continue its existence, the plans are perhaps an ambitious plan to restructure the senate and to realign power at the University. 
"There are issues on which the faculty neds an advocacy body for its own interests," said sena­tor Michael Zuckert, who last summer helped outline plans for the restructuring plan. "There are lots of University issues on which a faculty perspective is needed ... academic freedom, student life issues." 
The senate is essential to the University's well-being, accord­ing to Zuckert. because a faculty­only body provides a far different perspective from mixed-repre­sentation groups such as the Academic and Campus Life coun­cils, which include students and administrators in their member­ships. 
Prevailing sentiment toward the senate, however, is that the group is powerless and ineffec­tive. That was the impetus for the move in May to dissolve the body. 
"The senate is widely received to be powerless. It only debates things and passes resolutions that are then ignored." Zuckert said. 
He likened being in the senate to serving on an elementary school student council. 
Zuckert said opening the lines of communication between sena­tors and their consituency as well as linking the senate more tightly to a group with more power ­namely the Academic Council ­were the cornerstones of the restructuring plan. 
Drafted by a senate ad hoc committee last summer, the plan would cut the senate's member­ship from 53 voting members to 
37. It would also seat an addi­tional four faculty. representa­tives on the Academic Council. 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley. I@nd.edu 
Orchestra presents concert tonight 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra will present its fall concert tonight at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. , 
The concert is free and open to the public. 
The program includes selections from Bizet's "Carmen," Suites No. 1 & 2, selections from Rimsky-Korsakov's "Mlada" Suite, and Dvorak's Symphony No. 8 in G Major, Op. 88. 
The symphony orchestra is under the direc­tion of Daniel Stowe, assistant professional specialist in Notre Dame's Department of Music. 
Stowe also is conductor of the Notre Dame Glee Club and Collegium Musicum. 
For more information on this or other events sponsored by the Notre Dame Department of Music, please call 631-6201, email congoers@nd.edu or visit the Web stie at http://www.nd.edu/-congoers. 
join C.9L.'RX.for: 
Sexua{!Jlssauli­91.wareness Weef 
'I'fiursiay. 'Novem6er 8 -zym Q_&' !ii. w!tfi 'Adv!sOTJ 'Board 'Foster 'Room, La'Fortune Student 
Center 
PresentedPi:y the Camyus ?t.[(iancefor 'F.aye !Elimination 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
-Used Books bought and sold -25 Categories of Books -25,000 Hardback and Paperback 
books in stock 
~ti~&
-Out-of-Print search service -Appr;,isals large and small 
at· . 
# 
Open noon to six 
Sn1inute~ 
Tuesday through Sunday 
from OUTPOST 
1027 E. Wayne 
Campus :'/,Z,Ji/.­
South Bend, IN 46617 
eo1d Weather Experu 
{219) 232-8444 
Coll 259-1000 for more details 


THE CUSHWA CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF AMERICAN CATHOLICISM 
~ 
'~ Ghastly International Racket: The Catholic Church and the Bracero Program in Northern California, 1942-1964" 
Gina Marie Pitti 
Department of History Stanford University 
Thursday, November 8 
4:00 p.m. 240 Debartolo Hall 

page 8 The Observer . BUSINESS NEWS Thursday, November 8, 2001 

Siebel unveils anti-terrorist system 
. Software helps track down potential terrorists 
Associated Press 
SAN MATEO. Calif. 
Siebel Systems Inc., a soft­ware maker that helps busi­nesses find new customers, unveiled a product to help authorities track down poten­tial terrorists. 
The San Mateo-based com­pany on Wednesday intro­duced its new anti-terrorist security system during a cam­paign stop by California gubernatorial candidate Richard Riordan, a Republican supported by the software maker's chief executive, Tom Siebel. 
Siebel's "homeland security" software is a slightly revised version of the company's sig­nature "customer relationship management," or CRM, soft­ware that has become a staple among ma.ny large businesses. 
Just as Siebel's CRM soft­ware is designed to help com ­panies pull together disparate customer information spread across many databases, the homeland security package is tailored to stitch together valuable data scattered in var­software, Siebel becomes the ious local. state and federal latest Silicon Valley business government agencies. offering a high-tech solution to 
Siebel's system then would the terrorist threats facing the enable authorities to more country. easily share information and, The biggest splash so far has theoretically. thwart potential been made by one of Siebel's terrorist threats. archrivals, Oracle Corp. CEO 
"This is software that really Larry Ellison. who is offering could help the country and it's to provide the software for a already waiting in the wings," national identification card. said Frank Bishop, general Developing anti-terrorist manager of Siebel's public software makes good business sector division. "We don't sense for Siebel and its rivals think build-because the ing a system government
"This is software that
that takes market offers two or three really could help the a potential years to com­antidote to a
country and it's already 
plete is the slowdown in
waiting in the wings. " 
solution right the corporate now." sector, said One of Frank Bishop industry ana­Siebe l's lyst Brent
Siebel General Manager
directors, for­mer Montana governor Marc Racicot, already pitched the anti-ter• rorist system to Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge in a lengthy phone conversa­tion during the past week, Bishop said. 
The Homeland Security office doesn't discuss its pri­vate meetings or conversa­tions, said White House spokesman Ken Lisaius. 
With its re-sculpted security 
Thill of Credit Suisse First Boston. 
PeopleSoft Inc. is among the Siebel rivals expecting more demand from authorities try­ing to do a better job identify­ing terrorist threats. 
"No company wants to look opportunistic in this situation, but we want to try to do what­ever we can to help," said Kimberley Williams, PeopleSoft's director of mar­keting. 
Motorola spends $6.6 billion in China 
Associated Press 
SCHAUMBURG, Ill. 
Motorola· Inc. disclosed plans Wednesday to sharply increase spending and pro­duction in China. where the company intends to invest $6.6 billion over the next five years. 
A Motorola delegation led by chairman and chief execu­tive Christopher Galvin out• lined the plans to President Jiang Zemin and other gov­ernment leaders in Beijing, a day after the company's board of directors met in the capital. 
As the largest foreign investor in China, the cell phone and semiconductor maker has invested $3.4 bil­lion there since its initial involvement in 1992, accord­ing to spokeswoman Jennifer Weyrauch. 
In a brief statement issued from its Schaumburg head­quarters, Motorola said it intends to be a leader in wireless, Internet and broad­band in the Asian nation, where it had $4.5 billion in sales last year. 
Motorola operates about 10 semiconductor wafer fabrica­tion plants as well as other research and deveJopment facilities in China, where it has 13,000 employees. including more than 1,000 engineers and researchers. It is involved in eight joint ven­tures, provides training and consulting to Chinese busi· nesses and technicians, and maintains an extensive net­work of local suppliers. 
As part of its commitment, it also provides funding for schools, scholarship funds. disaster relief and sports sponsorships. 
Stepping up production and other efforts in China comes with the company still slash­ing operating costs in an effort to end a deep slump that is expected to result in a fourth straight quarterly loss. Motorola. which lost $1.4 bil­lion in the third quarter. is in the final stages of cutting 39,000 jobs -26 percent of its work force -since last December. 
Motorola shares declined by 7 cents to close at $17.43 Wednesday on the New York Stock Exchange. 
GM expects to profit in 2002 
Associated Press 
DETROIT 
Coming off a record sales month spurred on by no-interest financing, General Motors Corp. expects its North American oper­ations to turn a profit in 2002, but will have to cut costs to do it. 
GM reported a profit of $251 million in the third quarter for its North American operations and increased its share of the 
U.S. market nearly 3 percent to 
27.7 percent in the period. 
And last month, GM reported record vehicle sales. rising 31 percent over those during October 2000. 
Ford Motor Co. and the Chrysler Group of DaimlerChrysler AG saw sales increases of 36.3 pncent and 5 percent, respectively. 
Analysts credit part of the sales rush to the offer of no­interest financing, which GM started and was followed soon after by Ford and Chrysler in a bid to get consumers spending again following the Sept. 11 ter­rorist attacks. 
While the no-interest financing resulted in a sales spike, it also took a deep bite out of each automaker's profit margins. 
All three automakers intend to end the offer by the third week of the month. 
Meanwhile, sales of cars and trucks, however, are expected to cool off considerably, perhaps by a much as a million vehicles next year. 
Leading analysts predict total sales for 2001 will be in the mid­
,~,wst VOUR, 'WJTSffl 
University of nohe D&me's 
Colleqe Bowl 
Compeltllon lnformdlon 
Colle9e Bowl Isl question ud uswer ~,me between 2lea.ms of 4. The questions cover All ~ubjecls (slmllu to !ilrlall'vrsvl/J. 
firsl llound1 Tue$ Er Thur$, nov.13 Et 15 6pm-12mid Mohe Dame Room, 2nd floor LiforluRe 
lleql$h&tlon t>udline: Thursd1y, november 8, S~Opm Cost, FR.WI r~E[I! fk[f!! fkEE!! Prl,zes: Winning Tu.11, Expen$e paid lrlp lo DePquw Un1,er$ll7 lo compele aqa.lnsl wlnnlnq ream:; 11011 o!Ler lndla.na olllnol,e colleqes. Winning Tent 5 kunner Up Te1111 hu,e$ pllced on il per11anen! plaque dl$pllyed 111 l&forlune Sludenl Center. 
kecJ!ster at the Lafortune lnfor11a.tion Desk. M1in lounge. La.Forlune. for 110re delillls, ull 631-8128 or email 1ulchu.4@nd.edu. 
Space Is llmlied, so slC3n up lS soon u poulblel 
16 million range. GM's own esti­mate is 16.7 million. The automaker predicts total indus­try sales for 2002 will be around 
15.5 million. 
To make up for a shrinkage in revenue, GM is setting its sights higher for cost cutting, a spoke­man said Wednesday. 
"On an annual basis, we're doing pretty well, 2, 3 percent annually," spokesman Tom Pyden said. "Next year we'd like to step that up to 4 or 5 per­cent." 
To accomplish that goal, GM and its suppliers work together in a cost-savings sharing pro­gram, Pyden said. Suppliers offer their ideas for reducing costs. GM decides if they're suitable and then picks up part of the cost for implementing the ideas. 
1-800-2COUNCIL 
www.counciltravel.com 
Call 24 hrs. (EST) 8am Tues Nov 6 • 12am Fn. Nov. 9 & 10am -7pm Sat. Nov 10 
Call Glenn Strycker 
634-4830 For Directions Or A Ride 

. 
Thursday, November 8, 2001 The Observer . ENTERTAINMENT NEWS page 9 
Jackson proves 'invincible' as album debuts at No. I 
As,ociated Pres• 
NEW YORK 
Michael Jackson proved "Invincible" to negative reviews. Ilis first newalbum in almost sLx years has debuted at the top of the charts, according to figures released Wednesday. 
Jackson's "Invincible" sold 366,272 copies in its first week of release in the United States; it also debuted at No. 1 in a dozen countries overseas. The album succeeded despite mixed to harsh criticism from music reviewers: The headline of Entertainment Weekly's review was "King of Pap." 
Music industry watchers said 
the figures were encouraging 
for Jackson. "For someone who has not been visible musically in a long time, I think it's a very strong first week," said MTV's T o m Calderone. 

It may be Jackson time for Jackson to give u.p his "King of Pop" moniker. however. "Invincible" sold far fewer than the 1.9 mil­lion copies that 'N Sync's 
"Celebrity" moved in its debut week last summer. 
Even last week's No. 1 debut, from gruff rapper OMX, sold 439,957 copies. 
Still, it was one of the best debuts of Jackson's career, which is filled with top-selling discs, including the all-time best-seller "Thriller." 
But Jackson's reign at the top of the charts is likely to be brief -Britney Spears' third disc, "Britney," was released Tuesday, and is expected to post first-week sales of near 1 mil­lion. 
"I think everybody should be happy with this for a first-week number," said Alan Light, editor of Spin magazine. "The question now is: Wore those tho die-hard fans'? Now we'll see what tho effect of word of mouth will be, because he's got to compete against Britney this week and everything that's coming out in the next." 

Perhaps mindful of his tenu­ous spot at No. 1, Jackson was at the Virgin Megastore at Times Square on Wednesday to do something usually reserved for new or less successful acts -sign copies of his disc for fans. 
At one point. he made a grand appearance in front of the store, stepping onto a podium outside to acknowledge the huge crowd. Hundreds of people rushed to get a glimpse of the star, clad in a blue sweatsuit. 
While no media were permit­ted inside, MTV's Carson Daly interviewed Jackson briefly for his "TRL" show across the street, congratulating him on having the nation's best-selling disc. 
Jackson may get a boost when his much-hyped 30th anniver­sary concerts, held in September at Madison Square Garden, are aired as a two­hour, CBS prime-time special Tuesday. 
Calderone said it's critical for Jackson to keep a high profile since more top-sellers -includ­ing Creed and Kid Rock -will debut discs in the next few weeks. 
"He's gotta continue this," Calderone said. "The people that he's competing against on the chart ... all these guys are out there all the time, and they're not hiding. and that's the way you maintain tho sales story." 
So far, Calderone said, Jackson hasn't done that. llis only major interview has been with TV Guide, to promote the CBS special. And his few public outings have not been well received; the Madison Square Garden concerts were skewered by critics as bloated and tacky, while his performance at last month's United We Stand con­cert in Washington was marred by technical glitches. 
More importantly, audiences gave a lukewarm response to his first single, "You Rock My World." After debuting high, it quickly fell out of the top 1Oand now hovers in the bottom half of Billboard's Top 100 singles chart. 
The video. however, has received heavy airplay on the three major music television channels: VH1, MTV and BET. Jackson was VH1's artist of the month in October. 
"Certainly speaking for the VHl audience, it's been received in a great way," said Rick Krim, an executive vice president at the network. "Every time we put something on with Michael Jackson, our ratings go up." 
Another new single, "Butterflies," is already moving up the charts. 
Whether it will be enough to sustain Jackson's latest come­back is another question. 
"I think what Michael really needs is an undeniable smash single," Light said. "I just don't hear a single on this record that's big like that." 
DIIIRSDIIYG 
¦ aerllfn.­
LIVE 
AT HEARTLAND 
DOORS OPEN O 9PM SHOW010PM 
$7 lfrl ADYANC8 
SD DAY OF SHOW 
BRIN& YOUR COLLE6E. ID • MUST BE 21 

LIVE 
Al ff:EARTLANO 
FRIDAY NOV. 30 
...... Good ..Dead~' Mto-ttvlng Mo~h .. 
DOORS OPEN O 8PM SHOW0·10PM 
aa IN .ADVANCE 
810 DAY OF SHOW 
222 S. MICHIGAN:: Sill/TH BEND:: 219.234.5200 :: HEARTLANOSOUTHBEND.COM · 
CAU THE HEARTLAND CONCERT & EVENT LINE 219-251-2568 
ossiRVER 

IEWPOINT 
page 10 · Thursday, November 8, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sou.th Dining Hall. Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gilbpie  Bob Woods  
AsS'r, MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Pac Pet.:rs  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarlcy VI!;WPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SP0R,TS EDITOR: Noah Amsmdter SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MAR\"s EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Ad.am Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX............ , ............................................... 631-6927 ADVERTISING .....................................63 J-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING ErnroR/AssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFJCE........................................631-5313 NEWS.........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinc. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 
observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4 540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAJNT MAR.v"s.............................................631-4324 
observet.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcam pus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saine Mary•s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing E<liror, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. l.eCTers ro rhe Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qucstimlf regardi,ig Observer policies should b, direct­ed to Editor in Chi,[ Mike Cormally. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Jason McFarley Matt Nania Andrew Thagard Graphics Meghanne Kristin Krouse 
DovVIles Production Sports Lauren Dasso Katie McVoy Lab Tech Viewpoint Ernesto Lacayo Teresa Fralish 

While attending law courses in . Austria this past summer, I made a weekend trip to the Dachau concentra­tion camp in southern Germany. As Armistice Day approaches I dedicate this column to the memory of those · 
Christine NIies 
who perished 
there and similarly 
elsewhere. 
In 1933 Heinrich 
As I See It ...
Himmler trans­
formed this 
defunct ammuni­tion factory into Germany's first con­
centration camp. Dachau became a 
model prison camp because of its strict 
military regime. Originally built to 
house 5,000 inmates, by war's end it 
had held more than 200,000. Every prisoner entered through iron gates over which hang the words, Arbeit 
Macht Frei-"Work Makes One Free." 
Few knew they would be worked to death. The population included Catholic priests, Protestants, Jehovah's Witnesses, the homeless, gypsies, politi­cal dissenters and moral opponents. Jews comprised only 11 percent of the population, since most were sent to extermination camps in Poland. 
Our tour guide brought us before a massive iron sculpture consisting of twisted forms twined a-round barbed wire. The work depicted one of the more common methods of suicide, by which prisoners would hurl themselves against the high voltage fence. 
Others would hang themselves in the "Bunker," or prison houses. Inside, two rows of cramped, dark cells lined each side of the narrow hallway. Each room contained radiators, which SS officers would often turn off during the winter to torment prisoners. 
More than 31,000 are on record as having died at Dachau. although many thousands of nameless more met death at the execution wall, situated at one end of the Bunker. Behind the Bunker, soldiers would subject prisoners to "pole hanging." 
Concrete stakes still line the grass, each drilled with holes from which hooks were placed. Prisoners' hands were tied behind their backs, their arms hooked backwards to the stakes. Blood circulation was cut off from the shoulders and if they did not die, many dislocated or otherwise permanently injured their shoulders, suffering injury similar to that inflicted by crucifixion. 
One prisoner recalled being penalized with 30 minutes of pole hanging for having lost a button from his shirt. When guards discovered the missing button in his pants pocket, they assigned him 30 minutes more for theft. 
Outside, poplars planted by the pris­oners line the camp, verdant and thriv­ing testaments to the work of dead men. At the opposite end of the com­pound, I crossed a small bridge to find the crematorium. The original one housed two furnaces, but as the body count increased, prisoners were forced to build a new crematorium housing four more furnaces. 
By war's end the corpses became so numerous that guards stacked bodies three to an oven for faster elimination. Although Dachau contained a gas chamber, it was never used for the sim­ple reason that the SS could not effi­ciently deal with the overwhelming number of dead. 
As we crammed ourselves into the room next to the gas chamber, the guide pointed to a large photograph of corpses piled up to the window. "This photograph was taken in this very room." Apparently, when American sol­diers discovered them, they were so distraught that they rounded up 60 SS officials and executed them on the spot. 
The most disturbing part of the tour consisted of SS photographs hanging in the museum. One series depicts experi­ments conducted by the infamous Dr. Rascher. By exposing prisoners to sub­zero water temperatures, he hoped to discover why Nazi soldiers rescued from the English Channel would later 
die. 
Some prisoners, after prolonged 
exposure to freezing temperatures, 
begged to be killed rather than contin­
ue. Other experiments included expos­
ing prisoners to differing air pressures. 
simulating high altitude conditions of 
soldiers parachuting from planes. Many 
died as a result. 
One photograph depicted two scien­
tists adjusting straps on a subject sitting 
in a tub of freezing water. How disturb­
ing to find the scientists only wore 
expressions of curiosity as if their sub­
ject were no more than a laboratory 
animal. The prisoner's face, unforget­
tably, bore confusion and submission. 
By day's end the sky had darkened 
ominously. Wind kicked up white dust. 
and a thunderstorm erupted. Alone, I 
headed across the camp, passing row 
upon row of barracks, where prisoners 
lived 1,600 per barrack. 
The wind blew wildly as I trudged 
through the wet gravel of the roll-call 
square, where every inmate was 
accounted for, even the dead, whose 
corpses were dragged out for a com­
plete headcount. The rain, hard and 
freezing, had driven other visitors 
inside random buildings, emptying the 
exposed grounds. 
A sense of desolation pervaded the · compound. Soaked through and cold as I walked from one far end of the camp to the other, I did not have the stomach 
to complain. Many trod the same 
ground as I trod then, feeling worlds 
more alone. May we never forget them. 
Rest in peace. 
Christine Niles is a student at the 
Notre Dame Law School. Her column 
appears every other Thursday. Contact 
her at viewpoint.1@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column 
are those ofthe author and not neces­
sarily those ofThe Observer. 
POLL QUESTION 
Should The Shirt be the same shade of green every year? 
Vote at NDToday.com by 5 p.m. today. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"When I hear somebody sigh, 'Life is hard,' I am always tempted to ask, 'Compared to what?'" 
Sydney J. Harris author 

O
THE 
BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, November 8, 200 l page l l 
Allow students to follow their instincts 
While you are reading this article, someone on campus may be having sex. I can't tell you who. I think, how­ever, that we can safely rule out two people. 
You. the read­er, arc not having Joe Muto sex right now, unless your signif­icant other bores 
Livin' on a 
you enough that 
Prayer
you feel compelled to read the paper while in action. And I, the author, am not having sex, unless Satan is ice-skating as we speak. 
Now you'd think; that my enviable position as a humor columnist would have the ladies lined up outside my door like l was distributing U2 tickets, but oddly enough, this is not the case, Actually, I don't want to give the impression that J'm some kind of sex­deprived Phantom of the Opera, writ­ing my Observer opuses in horrible solitude from high atop the fourth floor of O'Neill Hall. 
I'm doing as well as any male, non­athlete could be expected to do. It's this campus that's in trouble. That's right. Notre Dame is in trouble. I'm not talking about Bob Davie's pending res­ignation. I'm not talking about the bookstore's student-swindling, money­grubbing ways. 
I'm not even talking about the ResLife staffs seemingly total oblivi­ousness to the fact that the entire stu­dent body hates their guts. I'm talking about sex. Or rather, the lack of it. 
I don't remember reading in the brochure here that the requirements were calculus, theology, philosophy and celibacy. If I had wanted to shut myself off from sex I would have joined the seminary. Or the band. 
And there is no doubt tha_t Notre Dame, pound for pound has less sex than most colleges. Actually, pound for pound Notre Dame has less sex than most nursing homes. This is a disturb­ing fact for many people. And by many people, I mean me. Especially because I came to college specifically to have large amounts of illicit sex. 
Before I start hearing derisive com­ments about film and theatre majors, you should know. of course I came to college for "learning." But the same time I came to be in close proximity to thousands of females my own age. It was to be glorious. My parents were four hours away. Her inhibitions would be tossed away like an old Milli Vanilli T-shirt. And then I ran smack dab into du Lac. 
It's obvious that the administration doesn't want us to have sex. And they show this through their rules. Parietals take care of any random sexual skir­mishes that might just happen after hours in private. To make sure nothing untoward happens in 24-hour space, girls' dorms have former Nazi war criminals sitting behind the security desks. The rectoresses just made them take off the swastikas and put on huge blue shirts. And just to be thorough, you can still technically get expelled for having premarital sex. 
All of this effort stems-from the Catholic assertion that premarital sex is wrong. I ask now, why is it wrong? 
There is no right or wrong to sex as far as I'm concerned. Sex is a natural, healthy thing. It is no more morally wrong than going to the bathroom. And I've never seen a priest on the other side of the toilet stall calling me a sinner while I sit there. Well, 
actuallv I did once, but that's into trouble, I just don't want for another time. to be chewed out by a self­
There's barely even a righteous ResLife board biblical basis to this asking for explicit unnatural fear of sex. details. Abraham eagerly To close, I am not a knocked up his slave bad person. A bad girl with God's person cheats, blessing when he steals, murders and assumed that his maims. How can I wife was barren. be a bad person And I'm not even when all I want to going to delve into do is give a woman the sexuality of the best 39 seconds Jesus, but remem­of her life? That's ber he did travel right. You heard me with 12 other guys. ladies. 
Truth be told, the And that one person University's attitude who is having sex as toward sex is unhealthy you read this? Well more than anything. more power to him and Things like not offering his sinner self. I hope the condoms on campus show a whole football thing works stubborn, unrealistic attitude out for him, too. 
toward student sexuality. By trying to repress it, the administration causes more harm than good. Sexual repres­sion can have very real and severe consequences. But don'tjust take my word for it. There are hundreds of altar boys who would agree with me. 
Something has got to give. It's gotten to the point where the average Notre Dame student's idea of foreplay is learning his or her roommate's class schedule for easier facilitation of, well, let's call it personal time. 
I personally know that I can't live like this. Breaking parietals is easy, but the few times I've done it I've been too nervous to fully enjoy myself. I 
don't care so much about getting 
Joe Muto is a sophomore Film. Television and Theatre major who invites any interested females to help restore his faith in this campus. His column appears every other Thursday. He can be reached atjmuto@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Respect your 
fellow man 
This past Saturday I witnessed an event even more disheartening than Notre Dame's loss. As I was leav­ing the game, I noticed that a Stadium employee was distributing posters in exchange for a coupon. · The woman was servicing another individual when a student reached into the box of posters to obtain one for herself. The woman tried to recover the poster, but the student ripped it out of her hands and walked away. 
First, I would like to nominate her guardians for the Parents of the Year Award and second. the girl herself for the Most Gall Exhibited by a Spoiled Brat Certificate. This occurance caused me to contemplate the conduct of my generation and the thought did not fill me with pride. 
'vVhat my peers need to learn is so-inherently sim­ple that most 5-ycar olds comprehend it: you do not take something that does not belong to you. Just because you want something does not mean.that you are enLitled to it. 
Many members of my generation seem to feel that rules apply to everyone but themselves, that they are somehow exempt from the basic codes of conduct that benefit us all. Ah, but it was only a poster. Or perhaps it was more than that. Perhaps it was a warning sign. 
Emily Ford 
sophomore 
McCandless Hall 
November 6, 200 l 
Demonstrate the Notre Dame _spirit 
I had the rare opportunity to share the experience that is Notre Dame football with my family recently. I am a senior and my father had been unable to attend a home game in my previous three years here. 
The Notre Dame-USC game on Oct. 20 was a first for my family, and we took advantage of it. We watched the band play on the steps on Bond Hall, we ordered burgers from one of the club concession stands, we took pictures at the Library, the stadium, even my dorm room. 
Tickets in hand, we joined the stream of people heading into the stadium, and made our way to our seats. I was a bit dismayed when I realized our rela­tive proximity to the USC band would mean hours of "Fight On", and not the "Victory March" as well as cheers by guys in white sweaters named Tripp, or something similar, but I figured if this minor annoy­ance was my only gripe, I should consider myself thankful. 
It wasn't raining, unlike the West Virginia game, and my family was excited to be here. I caught my father reading the football media guide a few times on Saturday morning. 
No sooner had the game started, than the carping began. "What the hell are they doing?" "Oh, he's such a jerk!" ~This is pathetic." I looked behind me, expecting to s~e. surely. a slightly less-than-sober USC fan, mocking Notre Dame's current on-field struggles. 
I was wrong. Behind me stood a guy somewhere between 17 and 21, a so-called Notre Dame fan, crit­icizing every Irish play. J can only -and did only ­pray that this individual was not a Notre Dame stu­dent or alum. 
By choosing to associate ourselves -either as a student, member of the faculty or staff or even a non-affiliated fan -with Notre Dame, we choose to associate ourselves with class, dignity and spirit. 
We choose to act as representatives of a University that we believe creates "the leaders of tomorrow." By behaving in ways that fly in the face of these con­cepts, we tarnish not only ourselves, but Notre Dame as well. 
I understand the history that surrounds Notre Dame football, the lofty expectations of our players, both on and off the field and current disappointment with the team's record, as well as the coaching staff. 
But Notre Dame transcends such things and loyal sons and daughters of Our Lady understand this. As a senior I have seen my share of football fiascos ­but I realize there is. truly more to Notre Dame than our football record. 
We speak often of the Notre Dame spirit, the Notre Dame way. The Sept. 11 mass on South Quad truly illustrated the Notre Dame spirit. Deriding an athlete as a jerk docs not. 
TheJrish will take on Navy next weekend. It will be the last home game of the season, and for the seniors, it is our last game in Notre_Dame Stadium as students, not the alumni that we soon will be. 
I challenge my fellow students to demonstrate the true class and spirit of Notre Dame. and to encour­age -not belittle -our fellow classmates, dorm­mates and members of the Notre Dame family. 
Rachel Swartz 
senior 
McGlinn Hall November 7, 2001 
O
THE BSERVER 

CENE.
movies 
page 12 Thursday, November 8, 2001 
INDUSTRY NEWS 
VHS has two years to live 
By MATT NANIA 
Scene Movie Editor 
How much longer will you have to sit there patient­ly while your friends fast forward through their anti­quated VHS tape of "Scarface" while you wish they would just catch up with times and get a DVD player? 
Two more years. 
The Bakersville Communications Corp. has found in a study that worldwide spending on DVD will over­take worldwide spending on VHS in 2003, with DVD players reaching 625 million homes. 
What your friend is waiting for, of course, is the ability to record "Buffy the Vampire Slayer" -which he has been able to do with his VHS deck forever ­on discs. And when that technology becomes afford­able t'or DVD, the format will pummel VHS once and 
for all, the study says. 
By all accounts, things have never looked better for DVD. It has been the fastest adopted consumer electronics format ever. So many of the stumbling blocks that have peppered its path to success have been overcome. 
All of the major studios have joined the fray, and Steven Spielberg, who had previously been holding off putting his films on DVD, has given the industry a strong jolt recently by releasing noted canon clas­sics "Jaws," "Close Encounters of the Third Kind" and his "Jurassic Park" series on extras-packed discs. 
Consumer reaction has been very encouraging, with hardware and software sales setting records year after year. During the first five months of 2001, sales of VCRs dropped 31 percent, compared to the 71 percent increase in DVD player sales. Indeed, by 2010, the study says, 55 percent of the world's homes thai have a TV will also have aDVD player. 
Major video outlets such as Blockbuster and Hollywood Video have noticed the strong shift from VHS to DVD and are devoting more shelf space to the new format. 
Single men, the early adopters who rushed out and bought the first players and titles, are now being joined by women and middle-to-upper-class families. 
To top it off, tho mainstream press, from major publications such as Time and Entertainment Weekly, has made an impact by providing article sup­port and regular disc reviews and recommendations. DVD is clearly becoming more of an established item. 
Now you can go tell your skeptical friend who refuses to pick up a DVD player that he will have one by 2003, whether he likes it or not. 
Contact Matt Nania at mnania@nd.edu. 

MOVIE REVIEW 
Pixar's monstrous track record continues 
By MATT NANIA 
Scene Movie Editor 
The interesting thing about all of the movies from Pixar Animation Studios {with the exception of 199S's "A Bug's Life") is that, unlike the rest of the offerings in the history of animated cinema, they haven't chosen to attempt the theatrics of exotic. fantas­tical settings and 
supporting team of creative talent are free to streamline the process already established by Lasseter. This is most obviously accomplished in the anima­tion itself, which gets better with every outing, but also in the story and in its content. "Monsters, Inc." fea­tures far fewer pop culture references -they aren't as crucial as they were in Pixar's previous films (or even more so in DreamWorks's "Shrek") ­
and with less time 
characters. 
devoted to stand up 
Instead. they've comedy, this film is gone after the by far the fastest domestic American moving of Pixar's
out offive shamrocks
childhood, the stuff titles. 
of such thematic Director: Peter Oocter Indeed, "Monsters, elements like Starring (the voices of): Billy Crystal, Inc." is the souped­favorite toys and 
Jahn Goodman and Steve Buscemi up Porsche of the 
monsters under the 
bed. 
It's a fitting choice because, like the years of innocence they portray, these computer-generated movies are still the new kids on the block. enduring that adolescent period of refinement. Pixar's films have been an evolution before our eyes, and "Monsters, Inc.," the latest in their lineage, is, if not the best of their films, then at least the most streamlined. imaginatively pack­aged yei. 
"Toy Story 2" is still the king of Pixar's features, mostly because the work done there by John Lasseter and company built on the foundation of "Toy Story" and achieved a level of complexity and depth that was the parallel of Hollywood's finest live­action pictures. 
In some ways, "Monsters, Inc." builds on the "Toy Story" films, although in an indirect sense. Audiences will expect 1.he same level of intelligence and wry humor coupled with physical comedy and sight gags in the same seamless fashion that has come to· represent the Pixar brand of comedy. 
Having already established an audi­ence, director Peter Docter and his bunch, ready for the 
open road in its non­stop delivery of images and sounds all while serving up a surprisingly coher­ent story. 
The premise of the film is this: Behind our world exists the world of bedtime monslers, who ,frighten chil­dren in order to capture the screams that will power their world. Despite this seemingly cruel-hearted plot, the monsters are actually benevolent types who are deathly afraid of any infection from the human world (a stray sock prompts a SWAT team-like response from a decontamination squad). 
Most of the monsters are good­natured, like the leading "scarer" James P. Sullivan (John Goodman) and his assistant Mike Wazowski (Billy Crystal). But evil is afoot in the form of the serpentine Handall (Steve Buscemi), who plots to economize the monsters' scare collection by extract­ing them directly from the child. · 
It's a difficult call as to whether this paranoia-based comedy is enhanced by the presence of high-priced voice talent like Crystal. Goodman and Buscemi. They certainly don't have the seasoned rapport that Tom Hanks and Tim Allen developed in "Toy Story 2." Still, Crystal and Goodman have their own give-and-take, and its one that might compete with the Allen­Hanks combo by the time an eventual sequel is made. 
The best thing ihat Crystal and Goodman have to offer is an unques­tionably fluid integration into the story world -the viewer will not find himself watching the film and pointing out Crystal's polished Jersey drawl or Goodman's rumbling bass iones. Instead, the gigantic blue-haired beast that is James P. Sullivan and the lone eyeball that is Mike emit unique voices, 
As always, they have plenty of great lines to say, and if the film is less par­tial to the ubiquitous pop culture ref­erences that became trendy overnight (again, watch "Shrek" to find out). then it is masterful of situational com­edy. Much like "Toy Story 2," the film doesn't play out like a bunch of gags strung together, but rather a con­stantly moving laugh-fest. 
Even if the Pixar features suddenly 
and shockingly became unfunny, they would still be !irst-ticr entertainment because of the animated excellence. A fine example of Pixar's unparalleled skill in combining visuals, sound, adventure and creativity, is the wild roller coaster-like ride through the innards of the Monsters. Inc. factory near the end of the film. It provides the final burst of energy in a movie that is perfectly paced and timed at about 90 minutes long (the ironclad running length for current animated features). and it raises the bar for Pixar's future releases. 
The constantly escalating expecta­tions of fans may be Pixar's only chal­lenge; they've clearly mastered the formula while managing not to seem formulaic. 
The tradition that began with "Toy Story" and continued with "A Bug's Life" and "Toy Story 2" is still going in "Monsters, Inc.," another superb addi­tion to Pixar's library of priceless titles. 
Contact Matt Nania at mnania@nd.edu. 

Billy Crystal and John Goodman provide the voices of Mike (left) and his big, hair­friend, Sulley. 
-
· THE 
OBSERVER 

CENE.
movies 
Thursday, November 8, 2001 page 13 
MOVIE REVIEW 
A 'Drive' through Lynch's looking gl~ 
By JUDE SEYMOUR 
Scene Movie Critic 
David Lynch has never played by the rules. either the ones newly created or those already well-established. Since his feature tilm debut, 1977's "Eraserhead," Lynch has been challenging his audiences to make sense of the surrealist dream­scapes. nightmares and paranoia Gust to name a few) that emanate from his works of art. 
His personal imagination is so unique that he has seemingly created a whole new universe on film: An eccentric world of weird. Within this world, characters undergo perverse and macabre moments in the most entertaining of fashions, in instants that can only be described as "Lynchian." 
These Lynchian moments stood out as a solitary beacon of hope while the "dumb­ing-down" of films persisted through the 1980s and '90s. Like the great Orson \\'Plies. Lynch·s l'ull recognition cL'i master of his craft by the moviegoing public may not come in his lifetime. It took film and television theoreticians years after the fact to realize that Lynch's 1990 foray into television, "Twin Peaks," was intelli­gent programming years ahead of its time. 
In the '90s, his films became the whip­ping boy of a short-attention spanned public, creating box office bombs out of brilliant Lynch think-pieces such as "Wild At Heart," 'Twin Peaks: Fire Walk With Me" and "Lost Highway." 


.... 
David Lynch (right) created "Mulholland Drive" out of a series of episodes he made for television. Additional scenes were filmed to form a movie and fulfill Lynch's purpose, the identity of which is being argued over and discussed by those who see it. 
It is no surprise then that Lynch's latest film, "Mulholland Drive," comes from amongst the rubble of rejected pilots by ABC Television. The unofficial word was that ABC had deemed the series too vio­lent and weird for television; but it's safe to assume, based on their slipshod treat­ment of "Twin Peaks," that the executives did not fully understand its potential. 
After the rejection, StudioCanal+, a French distributor of Lynch's previous film, "The Straight Story," bankrolled the director to transform his open-ended pilot into a feature film. The result of that 

Photos courtesy of Universal Pictures 
Naomi Watts (top, left), laura Harring (top, right) and Justin Theroux (middle, right) star in David Lynch's "Mulholland Drive." 
tweaking, now an exhila­rating 156-minute film, is currently being shown at multiplexes all over the country amidst a deafening buzz of controversy and debate. 
The chatter stems from Lynch's unrivaled method of storytelling. A mishmash of non-linear narrative, dreamscape, nightmare and fantasy, "Mulholland Drive" destroys the con­ventional "beginning, mid­dle. end" flow plot move­ment. creating dissonance and contradiction amongst its stories. Indeed, a sum­mary of the storyline is but a ridiculous gesture. 
Two thirds of the movie plays out as Nancy Drew mystery gone terribly awry. Betty (Naomi Watts) is a blonde-haired starlet from Ontario who looks like she just emerged from a corny General Electric commercials from the 1980s -bright, naYve and with ·a smile that seems permanently applied. She comes to Los Angeles, the city of dreams, in the hopes of becoming a major actress. 
Rita (Laura Harring) is a brunette that has just experienced a major trau­ma, resulting in the loss of her memorv. She has stumbled into the apart­ment of Betty's aunt to rest after being disorientated by her memory loss. 
When Betty discovers Rita in her new apartment, her good-girl persona and curious nature override her instincts to call the police. Instead, she suggests to Rita that have more literal minds. and g1!t angry they try to jog her memory, starting with when things are not very specific. You what Rita remembers: a car accident on just hope that people get the same thrill Mulholland Drive. that you got getting those original ideas." 
If Lynch's description of his own "Blue Perhaps Lynch's greatest moral victory Velvet" was "the Hardy Boys ... gone to amongst his detractors will be that, while hell," then "Mulholland Drive" is they hate his methods, they respect his "Velvet's" twin. Lynch has created the imagination. perfect Nancy Drew universe: The girls After the film's limited release on Oct. peep into windows, make anonymous 12, the Internet became flooded with inquiries to gather dues "Mulholland Drive" the-and talk to neighbors. "Mulholland Drive" ories, each attempting
Of course, along the 
to decipher the direc­way, their search for tor's intent.· As for Rita's identity is filled Lynch, he is maintain­
out offive shamrocks 
with Lynchian twists, ing his usual silence. which is an attempt to Director: David Lynch "Every translation is disrupt both the girls' Starring: Naomi Watts, Laura valid," he tells search and challenge Harring and Justin Theroux Salon.com. "In a way, 
the audience's patience. By the conclusion of the first part, the Lynchian moments have begun to swal­low the Nancy Drew universe on a line 
that teeters between the erotic and the ingeniously perverse (This first act could very well be described as "Nancy Drew gets her first Playboy"). 
The audience's growing confusion cat­alyzes the last one-third of the movie. Like "Twin Peaks: Fire Walk With Me,"' Lynch abandons linear narrative form and instead presents fragments, some or all of which could be the narrative's actu­al reality. Of course, the audience has just watched more than 100 minutes of what they assumed was reality before the sec­ond part introduces the notion that per­haps the first part was all just a dream. At this stage, one can almost hear the blaspheming of Lynch's name in some of the audience's heads. 
The second part of the film does much to prove that the issue of extreme impor­tance from the first part, the real identity of Rita, was inconsequential. The second section introduces a new problem, asking its audience to figure out the true rela­tionship between Betty and Rita. It also asks its audiences to figure out if some­one, or anyone, is dreaming or fantasiz­ing either part of the narrative, and if so, in what context of reality'? 
All of the sudden, Lvnch has his audi­ence trying to uncover their own twisted mystery. But in true Lynchian fashion, the director is quite reluctant to hand over clues. He wants his audience ques­tioning everything for the entire 150 min­utes. 
Some viewers, frustrated with being toyed with. will surely reject the mystery challenge that Lynch has posed to them. As the director remarked in a Salon.com interview, "Some people love getting lost and feeling their way out. Other people 
ideas are like music on the page. The notes may come one at a time, but the translation of that music has to do with the ability of the musicians to play and the conductor interpreting them." While it may seem pretentious or frustrating for a director to remain silent about the intent of his movie, it is not sur­prising for Lynch. 
Primarily, Lynch sees himself as an artist. who, instead of putting a painting up on the wall for a host of interpreta­tions, has slapped a 150-minute film together for the same purpose. 
If he reveals his artwork's truest intents, it destroys the ability of people to use their imagination. He doesn't want people thinking his voice is the only voice that can interpret his work. 
Without a doubt, "Mulholland Drive" is going to polarize audience opinion. Some will come out praising Lynch's genius, his attack on the studio system and the cre­ation of false hopes, and the death of illu­sion and dreams. Others will emerge not• ing an abomination. expressing their dis­gust at Lynch for impinging on their enjoyment and being too eccentric. 
I-lopefully, however, these two view­points will engage in a dialogue. They will probably not change each other's opin­ions. but they will get each other think­ing. 
Like any worthwhile piece of art, peo­ple will gather around "Mulholland Drive" for years to come to discuss its form, style, vision and execution. In doing so, viewers will help Lynch fully realize his singular dream and the hope of any master artist; that. love it or hate it, it's impossible to tear one's eyes away from "Mulholland Drive." 
Contact Jude Seymour at seymour.7@nd.edu. 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, November 8, 200 I 

NHL 
Devils burn thrashers in 3-2 victory 
ing Rhodes in close. a loss -their first defeat in four the second period. minute penalty kill. 
Associ:tted Press 
A hooking penalty to former games. Nolan picked up a loose puck Maltby got loose after a pass Devils player Bob Corkum in the Peter Worrell and Kevyn in the neutral zone while the from Chris Chelios for a shotEAST RUTHERFORD, N.J 
final seconds of the period gave Adams scored to back Luongo, Sharks were on the penalty kill, from the point 38 seconds laterBobby Holik set up a goal and New Jersey a power play to start who was rarely tested in his skated in alone and beat Dallas to make it 3-0.
scored two others, including Lhe the second. eighth career shutout. His other goalie Ed Belfour at 9:27 of the Brendan Shanahan had twogame•winner with 1 :44 to play, Holik needed only 47 seconds blanking this season was Oct. 7 second period for the tie. assists, but the two Hed Wingsto lead the New Jersey Devils to to tie it with a wrist shot from against Tampa Bay. The Stars got the only goal of looking for points -Luc a 3-2 victory over the Atlanta the right circle. . The Penguins, without the the first period at 5:24 on Robitaille and Brett Hull -wereThrashers on Wednesday night. 
Brodeur and defenseman injured Mario Lemieux for the Lehtinen's rebound. Belfour was blanked.
Sergei Bry lin also scored for Brian Rafalski made two excel­eighth straight game, were credited with an assist, the 23nd Robitaille needs one goal tothe Devils, and Martin Brodeur lent passes to catch the shutout for the third time this of his career and first since Feb. become the 13th 600-goal scorerhad 23 saves and an assist as the Thrashers on a change during season, all in the last seven 11, 2000 against St. Louis. in NHL history, and Hull needsDevils won for the seventh time the penalty kill. As Atlanta games. Pittsburgh was on a 2-0-The Sharks tied it at 1 when two points for 1,200 in hisin eight games. 
changed, Brodeur made a pass 1 run before visiting Florida. Scott Thornton converted a two­career, which would tie him forTomi Kallio scored twice in the to Rafalski at the Devils blue line Worrell opened the scoring by on-one break at 4:57 of the sec­32nd place. 
opening 4:46 for Atlanta, but it and he found Holik at the tapping the puck past Johan ond period for his sixth goal. Hasek, who allowed threewasn't enough to prevent the Thrashers blue line for a clear Hedberg at 9:11 of the second Dallas went in front 2-1 on a goals in 14 shots during a 5-4Thrashers from losing for the run at Rhodes. period. power play goal at 6:38 of the loss at Chicago on Sunday, wasfifth straight game. 
Kallio, who missed the last His second goal of the season second period when Sergei back in form for the secondHolik's second goal was actual­four games with a concussion, was set up by Viktor Kozlov, who Zubov's shot from the point game of' the road trip. The six­ly his second game-winner of the scored his first two goals of the slid a backhanded pass just deflected off the shaft of ti me Vezina Trophy winnernight. He scored on a shot from season in a 2:22 span early in inside the blue line. Worrell skat­Lehtinen's stick. The goal was turned away the first 14 Coyotes
along the right boards with 
the flfst period. ed across the crease, defended Lehtinen's sixth of the season. shots, and 16 in all.
about 4:30 to play, but the refer­The first came seconds after by Ian Moran, and with one The Coyotes went one skater ees waved off the goal and the Brodeur made a chest save on a hand got enough of the puck to down when Brad May drew a
replay officials didn't overrule .. Red Wings 3, Coyotes 1 
shot by Ray Ferraro. push it in the goal. double minor for high-sticking
Replays minutes later showed Fredrik Olausson broke a
Defenseman Chris Tamer got the Florida took a 2-0 lead just 24 16 seconds into the game, but
the shot hit the back of t:1e net scoreless tie with Detroit's NHL·
long rebound, and Kallio deflect­seconds into the third period. survived the four-minute power
and bounced out. best fifth short-handed goal. and
ed his shot past Brodeur with Adams, positioned in front of play without harm, 
Holik scored the game-winner Sergei Fedorov and Kirk Maltby
what was close to a high stick. Hedberg, deflected in a high shot Phoenix weathered another
that counted in the final two had third-period goals as the
Tony Hrkac set up the second from the point by Niklas Detroit power play late in the
minutes after an Atlanta Red Wings beat the Phoenix
goal, stealing the puck from Hagman. first period and finally got its
turnover deep in its own end. Coyotes.
Scott Stevens at the right point first when Chelios tripped
Andreas Salomonsson pushed The Red Wings, successfully
and sending Hnat Dominichelli Krystofer Kolanos with 7:50 left
the puck to Holik, who beat Sharks 2, Stars 2 avoiding a two-game losing
up _the left boards. Kallio took a in the second. 
Damian Rhodes with a backhan­Owen Nolan's short-handed streak for the third time this sea­
pass coming down the middle Midway through the penalty
der in close. goal midway through the second s on, led 3-0 before Phoenix's
and beat Brodeur low at 4:46. kill, Shanahan picked up the
Outshot 10-2 in the first peri­period lifted. the San Jose Sharks Brad May scored against puck in the neutral zone, skatedod, the Devils only trailed 2-1 to a tie with the Dallas Stars. Dominik Hasek 2:33 into the in. and sent a crossing pass toand left the ice ready to go on a Panthers 2, Penguins 0 Jere Lehtinen scored twice for third period. 
Olausson. He skated past thepower play. Roberto Luongo stopped 17 Dallas, which ended San Jose's Fedorov scored 55 seconds point and fired a wrist shot thatBrylin got the Devils back in it shots in his second shutout of the five-game winning streak. into the third period and five angled past goalie Sean Burkeat 12:29, taking a pass from the season, and the Florida Panthers Lehtinen's power-play tally seconds after the Coyotes held and into the corner with 6:41right corner by Holik and beat-handed the Pittsburgh Penguins · gave Dallas a 2-1 lead at 6:38 of on through their second four-remaining. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day fro11J.8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Bed 'n Breakfast near ND for grad .. SPRING BREAK PARTY! Indulge Spring Break with STS, America's HOPING TO ADOPT weekend. Wild Irish Rose Inn. 219-in FREE Travel, Drinks, Food and #1 Student Tour Operator. We are a Catholic, fun-loving, well 277-4303 Parties with the Best DJ's and Promote trips on campus earn cash educated and financially secure
LOST AND FOUND TICKETS 
www.irishroseinn.com celebrities in Cancun, Jamaica, and free trips. Info/Reservations married couple in Northern 
Mazatlan and the Bahamas. Go to 1-800-648-4849 California. We are homestudy Found knit cap with Barna on it HOUSES FOR RENT: StudentCity.com, call 1-800·293· BUY-SELL approved and excited to share our Call 4-1627 1) 9-br. $2400/month 1443 or email ND FOOTBALL TICKETS www.ststravel.com love with a bay! You can learn 
2) 5-br. S1500/month sales@studentcity.com to find out 277 -6619 or 273-3911 more about us at www.parentpro­
3) 4-br. $1000/month more. *"ACT NOW! GUARANTEE THE files.com/profiles/db2288.html or BEST SPRING BHEAK PRICES! call Adoption Connection toll-free at 
COACH: Need Jr. High boys bas-NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TIX SOUTH PADRE, CANCUN, 1-800-972-9225 and ask about 
FOR RENT 
Call Bill at 532-1896 ketball coach: responsible and FOR SALE JAMAICA, BAHAMAS, ACAPUL-Chris and Mary. 
dependable, student or grad to CO, FLORIDA & MARDI GRAS. HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM-Homes for rent near campus coach 7·81h grade reserve basket-A.M. 232-2378 REPS NEEDED. TRAVEL FREE, Spring Break Cancun, Jamaica, S. PUS furn. ball team, Nov 12-Feb 21; for south P.M. 288-2726 EARN $$$. GROUP DISCOUNT Padre, & all Florida destinations. mmmrentals.com side private elementary school, FOR 6+. 800-8388203/ BEST Hotels, FREE Parties, LOW-email: mmmrentals@aol.com 272-6306 located near Scottsdale Mall on ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED EST Prices, 
Miami St. Must be available for www.leisuretours.com www.breakerstravel.com (800) 985­THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Northshore Condo, practices Mon-Thurs from 2:20-A.M. · 232-2378 6789 Breakfast Inn has space available 1428 Marigold Way 3:15. Game schedule varies with 9-$300-$800 Scholarships for football/parent wknds. 5 rooms near ND, 1 bdr, 1 bath, LA, DA & 10 games beginning after school at P.M. -288-2726 Available per semester! Hit and Run with private baths, $80·$ 115, kitchen w/appliances 4 or 5 pm. Paid position. Call 291 · Looking for a job which lets you ND Sweat Blanket taken lrom gold Middlebury, 30 miles lrom campus. 4200 to apply. ND tickets for sale. Lowest prices. work around your school schedule? cart. Case of mistaken integrity Toll Road Exit #107. 1-800-418-1 car garage. $69,000 232-0964. We have several part-time and full­9487 time day & evening positions paying Schoolbus 
1-bdrm w/ patio, $545/mo. Swm WANTED -ND TICKETS $7-$11/hr. B&B pool, exercise room, laundry tac. 289-9280 We offer the following: Mer-
FOR SALE 
2-3 ROOMS HOME GAMES 3.5 miles from campus. Lease ·scholarship money Your Mom called and said you 2 Ml NO OF CAMPUS expires 5/2002, may be renewed. Buying some/ Selling a few extra 'Flexible Schedules spend loo much time at rehearsal1 Call Ben Feden Selling Varsity Club time share 1 N.D. Football Tickets. 'Paid vacations/holidays 247-1124 soph. wk. $9,500 219-289-8048. 'Optional Saturdays Weeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 
(219) 255-2153 272-1753 *Heallh/Life/401 (k) Lodging . Bed and Breakfast, 45 Call Doris at 254-1772 for more info *Incentives/Raises Kerry Smith is the coolest person minutes from Notre Dame. T&R *Supervisory/Mg!. Positions ever! If you see her today, tell her INN Bety{een the lakes. Male Roommate needed for 1999 Toyota RAV4 excellent condi-PERSONAL 1-(888) 801-JOBS she rocks. 
PH (616) 244-9084 upcoming spring semester. Turtle tion -only 10,500 miles, leather, cd www.irmbetweenthelakes.com Creek, 2 bedroom apt., fully fur-changer, manual transmission SPRING BREAK jobs@americallcorp.com Tami­
nished, $405/mo. Contact Cory and CALL 243-9937 Largest selection of Spring Break Just minutes north of campus Jerry called. He and his pantuflas FREEDOM! 4 and 5 Bdrm Houses, Eric at 277-6560 Destinations, including Cruises! miss you. furnished, sec sys!, wash/dry, Moving out need to sell everything! Rep Positions, Free Drinks and ADOPTION IS LOVE PRIME locations, util included. 4 Br Great prices! Furniture, kitchen Free trips available. A and A­has V-ball &B-ball courts. 233-9947 appliances, tv, bed, and many more www. EpicuRRean.com Imagine your precious baby safe Your Mom. 
WANTED stuff. and happy in a loving family, ROOMS AVAILABLE AT THE CALL 243-9937 1-800-231-4-FUN adored by 2 ND grad parents (a lull-Ken-Doll ­SOUTH BEND MARRIOTT Student wanted! Alum owned 2 time mom and lawyer dad) and lov-Your Dad called. No, for real. NOVEMBER 15-18, NOTRE DAME story, 5 bdr, 2 blh w/ newer carpet. Mercury 93 Sable, V6, AC, WANTED: SPRING BREAKERS! ing playmates in a beautiful home VS NAVY WEEKEND. ROOMS Appl, sec, roof & furnace, 3 lot yd, 1 AM/FM/CD, power seats & win-Sun Coast Vacations wants to send We promise to give your child the Roornie • BLOCKED FOR AN ND CONFER-blk N. of Club 23. 321-217-8451. dows, 94k, $2500. 235-6265 you on Spring Break to Cancun, the life you dream of for them. Medical, Tag team back again. ENCE, EXTRAS AVAILABLE FOR Bahamas, Jamaica or Mazatlan legal, counseling, court-approved MORE INFORMATION PLEASE Houses available for 3-6 students. For Sale FOR FREEi To find out how, call 1-living e.xpenses pd. Confidential. Colin• CALL BARB HERB AT 312·243-Good area. ADT, washer-dryer-air. 4 Purdue tkts 888-777-4642 or email: sales@sun• Please call our attorney at (708) Lauren and I both missed you 4244 (X4192) Dave 340-01 06. Call Gerry 4-1994 coastvacations.com 922-4795 tonight. 
f; 
Thursday, November 8, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
NHL 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Sabres stop Satan's wish 
14-22, only for the medal table experience, he said. 
Associated Press 
round. The United States, "There is no work, no shop­Canada, Finland, Sweden, ping, no nothing," when theBUFFALO, N.Y. 
Russia and the Czech Republic national team competes, heThe Buffalo Sabres will not (which, with Slovakia, made up said. "You just watch hockey. Itallow forward Miroslav Satan the former Czechoslovakia) are was such a great feelingto leave the team to play for automatically. in. Slovakia, because we knew how much it 
Slovakia in the preliminary 
Austria, Belarus, France, meant for the people and we
round of the Salt Lake 
Germany, Latvia and Ukraine tried to win the games forOlympics. 
must compete for two spots in them."
Buffalo general manager the preliminary round. Satan says he'.s still holdingDarcy Regier told Satan that The NHL, NHL Players' out hope that if the Sabres archis contract makes him a Sabre Association and the comfortably in the playoff pic-first. and that he won't be 
International ture by
granted a leave of absence. 
lee Hockey midsea­"This has put hockey in a 
Federation "This has put hockey in a son, he 
very bad situation, it's very 
developed the could be
tough to resolve," Satan said. "I very bad situation, it's
plan and left allowed to
don't think that's fair and I 
the decision of very tough to resolve." make the
don't know what should be 
who gets to trip to
done about it. 
compete to the Utah. In
Satan has spoken with other Miroslav Satan 
GMs, some­1998, he
Slovaks, including Sabre Forward
thing Regier and otherWashington's Peter Bondra, 
called unfortu-NHL play­
and said he doesn't believe 
nate. ers trav­anyone will break ranks from 
"We have a eled to thethe NHL. But the idea has been reS'ponsibility, first and fore­games in Nagano, Japan, ·onlyfloated. 
most, to the fans," Regier told to find his team had alreadyThe NHL will shut down Feb. 

The Buffalo News. ''I'll expect been eliminated by Kazaksta'1. it's going to be a playoff race Slovakia showed astonishing all season long, and we recog­potential by beating the United nize Miro as one of our top States on its way to a second­players." place finish in the 2000 World 
Satan said Slovaks feel an Championship. immense pride in their NHL "We came back from Russia players, whom they rarely see at 3 a.m. and there were on TV and eagerly anticipate 20,000 people in the square" in watching in the Olympics. Bratislava, Slovakia's capital, 
Satan scored nine goals in Satan said. "I know how much eight games for Slovakia in the it means for them and they're 1994 games in Lillehammer, going to be heartbroken, and Norway. Competing for his the players will be heartbro­young country is an unforget-ken, ifwe don't get to play." 
Call 259-1000 for more details 
Heisman not on Grossman's mind 
on Saturday.
. Sophomore 
Grossman has thrown forquarterback wants 2,942 yards, 27 touchdowns wins more than and 10 interceptions. That 
compares to 1,782 yards, 15
award 
TDs and four interceptions for Miami QB Ken Dorsey and 
Associated Press 
1,257 yards passing and 847 GAINESVILLE, Fla. yards rushing for Nebraska's Eric Crouch. Crouch also had
Rex Grossman came clean. 
Turns out, he really was a 63-yard touchdown catch against Oklahoma earlier this
thinking about the lleisman 
season.
Trophy. But now, he says, he really The biggest drawback for 
Grossman could be Heismanhas blocked it out of his mind 
voters' reluctance to give the
-honest. "I was pretty much lying to award to sophomore. l'\o
a freshman or sophomore has
you about it before the Auburn game," Crossman ever won the award. 
"He would get my vote,"
said. "I was paying a little bit of attention to it. But now I 
offensive lineman Mike really don't care. Honestly, it Pearson said. doesn't mean anything to me. He'll probably get former It put everything into perspec­Heisman winner Steve 
Spurrier's, too.
tive as far as what was impor• But that's all for later. The
tant, and awards are just a 
Gators have a difficult three­distraction right now." 
Grossman may have been game stretch to worry about. They play Florida State and
the leading candidate heading 
Tennessee after South
into the Auburn game. But four interceptions in a 23-20. Carolina. 
"You can put up all the num­
loss put any talk of the Reisman, or a national title for bers you want to, but the bot­
Florida, on hold. tom line is to win games and Two games later, both goals to be a factor in how well your are realistic again for season went," Grossman said. "The next three games are the
Grossman and the No. 4 Gators (7-1, 5-1 SEC). who three biggest games I've 
ever been involved with." 
play at No. 14 South Carolina 
Apply Today to be President of THE SHIRT 2002 
This is your opportunity to coordinate the biggest student tradition of the. year! 
-Applications can be picked up outside the Student Activities Office in Lafortune and must be returned to Student Activities by Nov. 9, 2001. 
For more information contact Scott Palko at spalko@nd.edu 
page 16 The ObJerver . SPORTS Thursday, November 8, 2001 
Davie's best not good enough 
For the past few weeks, the most popular sport on Notre Dame's campus has not been football, soccer or basketball, but rather a sport I've come to te/m "Davie­bashing." 
It seems like every­one you ask has his own expert opinion about what Bob Davie is doing wrong and what should be done to solve the Irish foot­ball team's struggles, 
As the criticisms begin Lo mount like so many drive-killing fumbles, Davie seems to have resigned himself to his doomed fate. 
Note the way Davie grins wryly and looks to the sky after every turnover, seeming to ask, "What did I do to deserve this?" and 

you will understand what I mean. 
At 3-5, it is almost a foregone conclusion that this will be Davie's last season and at this point, a split would seem benefi­cial for both parties. 
I'll be honest, coming into this year I thought Davie was a solid coach. I mean, anyone who could squeeze out nine wins with an untested freshman quarter­back deserves some respect in my book. 
However, after watching Notre Dame's performance this season and reflecting on my three years here, my opinion has come to change. 
Before I go any further, let me get one thing straight. I do not think that l am more knowledge­able about football than Davie. I do not think that, given the chance, I could take Davie's headset and lead Notre Dame to a BCS berth myself (an assertion I've heard more than one intoxi­cated fan make). And I certainly don't think that I'm a better per­son than Davie. I've only met him once, but he seems like one hell of a good guy. 
That being said, I have noticed a number of symptoms that Notre Dame teams have exhibit­ed all too frequently under Davie's watch. Let me begin with the most troubling: Bob Davie's teams play down to the level of their competition far too often. This year's loss to Boston College and the close calls against West Virginia and Pittsburgh are only the most recent examples in a string of underachieving perfor­mances. Gone arc the days when Notre Dame scored 60 points against Rutgers. Gone are the days when Notre Dame entered games as four • touchdown favorites. 
Sadly, it's just as likely that we'll drop a home game to an inferior team as it is we'll give a highly ranked opponent a run for their money. Need further proof? Two years ago, Davie's 
NFL 
Randle to miss first game 
squad almost handed Navy their first victory against the Irish in 
almost four decades. It took a miracle fourth-and-10 conver­sion by Jarious Jackson and a last second touchdown to save them from that humiliation. 
Indeed, far to often, Notre Dame has failed to dominate a clearly inferior opponent and let them back into a game that should have been decided by halftime. Which leads me to my next point. 
Davie's teams lack a killer instinct. The game against West Virginia this year was a perfect example of a contest that the Irish appeared to have easily in hand. Then, before you knew it. a three-and-out here and a-cou­ple-of-penalties there opened the door back up for the Mountaineers. Fortunately, Notre Dame prevailed in the end, but not before providing its fans with plenty of undue stress. 
An even more frustrating example was last year's game against top-ranked Nebraska. With more than a minute on the clock and the score tied, Davie chose to kneel on the ball rather than take a chance of winning in regulation. The Irish ended up losing in overtime, much to the dismay of fans and shocked players. 
After awhile, a team comes to inherit its coach's attitude. How can fans expect the players to perform like champions when their coach shows such little faith in their abilities? 
Davie's teams make big mis­takes at crucial moments in games. Think back to the key play of the Tennesse game Holiday's interception late in the fourth quarter. Remember what happened one play before that? On first-and-10 from the Irish 25, half the blockers looked like they didn't know what play was being called and Holiday was sacked for a nine-yard loss. 
Such confusion is unaccept­able in such an important stage of the game, especially consider­ing that the offense had an entire TV timeout to coordinate their gameplan. 
The play brought back bad memories ofthe Purdue fiasco two years ago, when the confu­sion created by an infamous "fake option" on the 1-yard line led to a sack, and an eventual loss as time expired on the Irish. 
Great coaches make sure all their players are on the same page before he sends them onto the field, especially on game­deciding drives. 
When all is said and done, this school deserves better, the play­ers themselves deserve better, and .even Davie deserves better than what we have all experi­enced over the past five years. 
Davie is a good man and I wish him the best of luck wherever he ends up after this season. But something tells me it won't be in South Bend. 
Contact Colin Boylan at cboy­lan@nd.edu. The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe writer and not nec­essarily those ofThe Observer. 
Men's Soccer 
-13ia ~a§t Ouarterfinal ­• dcd. Rav. 10 1:30 1Tht. • 
t,~ vs. Georgetown t,~ 
a=r-ee Admissif)n ff)r-fir-st JOO ~tudents 

Meghan, you have brought 21 years of cheers to our.hearts. We love vou.
., 
God be with you and fill your heart with gladness. 
Love: Mom, Dad, and Hugh 
A.sociated Press 
KIRKI.AND, Wash. 
John Randie's streak of never having missed a game in his 12­year NFL career is in jeopardy because of an injury. 
The defensive tackle was in pads Wednesday but did not practice as the Seattle Seahawks began preparing for their Sundc!-y night game against the Oakland Raiders. 
Randle sprained his left knee in the fourth quarter of the Seahawks' loss to Washington last Sunday. 
Randle, 33, has played in all 183 games of his career, start­ing 140 in a row. He said he was unsure if he would be ready for Sunday night although he is listed as ques­tionable, which means he has _a 50 percent chance of playing. 
"I'm feeling pretty good right now," he said. " ... I think in the next couple of days, I'll really be able to tell if I'll be able to p~y or not." 
Randle has been a key player in the Seahawks' rejuvenated defense this season. 
He signed a $25 million, five­year contract with a $5 million signing bonus in March after he was released by Minnesota. Randle played 11 seasons with the Vikings. 
He ranks eighth in the AFC with 5 1/2 sacks this season. The six-time Pro Bowl selection has 119 1/2 sacks in his career. 
Seahawks running back Ricky Watters had his streak of 116 consecutive starts ended after he sprained his right shoulder in a loss to Oakland on Sept. 30. 
After the Washington game, coach Mike Holmgren thought Randie's injury might have involved ligament or cartilage damage. 
That would have required arthroscopic surgery. 
"It's a day-to-day thing with John," Holmgren said. "He is pretty sore. So we'll see. If any­body could prepare himself to play with an injury like this, 1 would put my money on John." 
Randle hopes he  can  play  
Sunday so  he  can  keep.his  
streak alive.  

"It's a pretty good streak," he said. "It's not a Cal Ripken thing, but it's a nice little some­thing I have going." 
The Seahawks paid $11.8 million in signing bonuses to veterans Randle. defensive tackle Chad Eaton, middle line­backer Levon Kirkland and free safety Marcus Robertson to help fix a defense that ranked 31st in the league last season. 
Despite giving up a season­worst 230 yards rushing to the Redskins, the Seahawks' defense has been a major strength this season. 
The Seahawks (3-4) rank 12th in the league in defense this season. 
'Tm very proud," Randle said. "I know a lot of you guys had some doubts, but we're try­ing to play hard, we're trying to do a job. Kind of slowly but surely we're trying to improve things by staying with it and working hard." 
Handle has been as good as ever this season, according to opponents. 
"Randie's so quick and strong," veteran Denver center Tom Nalen said. "I think he's pla~.ing better than he ever has. 
If Randle can't play Sunday night, the Seahawks will go with second-year player Antonio Cochran, who has never started an NFL game. 
Men's Basketball 
@7:38PK 
vs. 
EA SPORTS ALL-STARS


Thursday, November 8, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NBA 
Knicks sn~p losing streak against Cavs 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
The New York Knicks found a way to end their three-game losing streak despite giving up 16 offensive rebounds, using two 12-0 runs in the third quarter . to defeat the Cleveland Cavaliers 82-64 Wednesday night. 
Latrell Sprewell and Allan Houston scored 14 points each and Charlie Ward had three of New York's eight 3-pointers. Despite their defensive rebounding problem, the Knicks picked up an easy vic­tory by moving the ball around and getting everyone involved -as evidenced by their 22 assists on 30 field goals. 
New York outscored Cleveland 22-13 in the third quarter to take a 14~point lead into the fourth, and the Cavs got their deficit below double digits only once the rest of the way. 
Andre Miller had 15 points and Lamond Murray added 12 points and 10 rebounds for the Cavs. Cleveland's 64 points were one more than the record-low for a Knicks oppo­nent. 
The victory was a much­needed confidence boost for the Knicks, who lost at Charlotte, Chicago and Minnesota following their sea­son-opening victory over Washington. 
''I'm usually the negative one. I'm the positive one now," coach Jeff Van Gundy said before the game. "The band­wagon is cleared. Seats are available. Tickets are going for an all-time low." 
The Cavaliers couldn't do vote-getter the past two years anything right in the early made five of his seven 3-point going, scoring just four points attempts in the third, when he and committing six turnovers had 20 points to tie his team in the fir"st six minutes. record for points in a quarter. Cleveland finished the first Carter last had 20 in a quarter quarter with 10 turnovers and against Phoenix on Dec. 30, fell behind by double digits 2000. early in the second before ral­Danny Fortson's jumper lying within 35-34 just before gave Golden State a one-point halftime.. lead early in the third, but 
The Knicks scored the final Toronto followed with a 15-3 four points of the half and the run as Carter made three 3­first eight of the third quarter, pointers. then added another 12-0 run Carter converted a three­later in the third as Clarence point play with 3:30 remaining Weatherspoon had four points to give Toronto a 16-point and Mark Jackson made con­lead. Carter went for a dunk, secutive 3-pointers. but with former North 
Carolina teammate Antawn 
Jamison going for a block,
Raptors 109, Warriors 92 
Carter stopped in midair, and
Vince Carter scored 39 made an acrobatic layup.
points and the Toronto 
Jamison was called for a foul,Raptors broke their own NBA 
and Carter made his freerecord with 
throw.
24 blocked He later hit
shots in a "I'm usually the negative 
consecutive 3­victory over 
one. I'm the positive one pointers, giv­
the Golden 
,. ing Toronto aS t a t e now. 
21-point leadWarriors. 
with 1 :18 left
Hakeem 
Jeff Van Gundy in the third.
Olajuwon 
Knicks head coach The Raptors
led Tor.onto 
outscored
with nine 
. Golden State
blocks, 
35-20 in the
w h i I e period.
Carter, Antonio Davis, Keon 
The Warriors didn't get clos­Clark and Tracy Murray each er than 13 points the rest ofhad three. The Raptors set the the of the way.
old mark of 23 against Atlanta last March 23. 
Carter, who struggled in Celtics 104, Wizards 95 Toronto's first two losses of Michael Jordan was unable the season, was 6-of-9 from 3-to carry Washington in the last point range, grabbed a sea­seven minutes as the Boston son-high 10 rebounds and had Celtics held off the Wizards' six assists for the Raptors, with a rare balanced attack. who have won three straight. Jordan scored 32 points, the 
The NBA's leading all-star most in the five games of his 
comeback, and gave Washington an 81-80 lead with a three-point play that ended an 11-0 run with 7:16 left. 
But the Wizards never led again as five Celtics scored in double figures, led by Antoine Walker with 31. Paul Pierce, who usually teams with Walker to lead Boston, had 14. 
Jordan, who did most of his damage on jumpers. leaped across the lane to rebound Christian Laettner's miss with Washington trailing 80-78. He then tied the game with a baseline jumper, was fouled by Joe Johnson and completed the three-point play. 
Then Walker made a three­point play of his own, giving the Celtics an 83-81 lead. 
But Jordan took over for Washington, scoring its next six points and tying it at 89 with 3:53 remaining. Again, Walker answered with a three-point play on which he was fouled by Jordan. 
Then Jordan finally was stopped. 
On the next possession, he drove into three Celtics and missed a shot. He got the rebound but was called for traveling because the ball didn't hit the rim. 
Kenny Anderson, who had 17 points for Boston, then hit two free throws for a 94-89 lead and Jordan tried to cut that again. This time he went up for a 16-foot jumper, but Pierce blocked it, leading to Johnson's dunk and a 96-89 Boston lead with 2:49 to go. 
Washington closed to 98-94 on Chris Whitney's 3-point shot, but Walker scored the next six points. That made Jordan's free throw with 23 seconds to play meaningful only because it allowed him to pass his previous season high of 31. 
In the fifth game of his last comeback in 1995, after he played minor league baseball, Jordan scored 55 points against New York. 
Laettner added 29 points for Washington, while Boston got 16 from Johnson and 13 from Erick Strickland. 
The Celtics led 48-42 at half­time then opened their biggest lead of the game, 62-50, with an eight-point run on 3-point­ers by Anderson and Johnson and a basket by Johnson with 
7:21 left in the quarter. 
With the score 75-68, the Wizards got the ball with 4.9 seconds left. Jordan tried a jumper from the top of the key at the buzzer, but Walker blocked it. 
Pacers 116, Kings 104 
Al Harrington scored 22 points and Reggie Miller added 20 as the Indiana Pacers used a 17-1 fourth-quarter run to beat the Sacramento Kings. 
Sacramento built a 10-point lead early in the third quarter as the Pacers missed their first 10 shots of the half. But Indiana finished the quarter with a 25-10 run. 
The Kings led 87-86 after three quarters, and Bobby Jackson's jumper capped a 6-0 run for a 97-91 lead early in the fourth. 
Miller, who had had 12 points in the first three quar­ters, started the Pacers' run by hitting three free throws after being fouled on a 3-point attempt. He scored the next basket to pull the Pacers with­in two. 
Harrington put the Pacers ahead 98-97 with 7:04, and they never trailed again. 
Peja Stojakovic scored 36 points, shooting 5-of-6 from 3­point range, for the Kings. 

4,321
May Have ... Male Students ... 
14 
Men's Dorms ... 
1 'Mr. 'N'Dl 
Come to the 2nd Annual 
Mr. ND Pageant 
Thursday, November 8th 7-9 pm 
@ 
The Alumni-Senior Club 
Free Admission!! Guys: come and support your dorm! Girls: come and cheer for your favorite guy! 
Sponsored by Walsh Hall 


Notre Dame Film, Television, and Theatre presents 
1\etorH Front Tlte IiHldOJl s·tage AMidsummer Night's Drea1n 
by William Shakespeare 
Thursday, November 8 ................. 7:30 p.m. Friday, November 9 ....................... 7:30 p.m. Saturday, November 10 ............... 7:30 p.m. 
Playing at Riley High School • Reserved Seats $16 Seniors $14 • All Students $12 
Tickets available at Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128. 
Shuttle Service Available page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, November 8, 2001 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Top teams compete in tourney 
. NCAA teams play to raise money for cancer research 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
The Coaches vs. Cancer Classic has become the official tipoff to the college basketball season. 
That four of the country's pre­mier programs will get it all started this year at Madison Square Garden, just a few sub­way stops from the World Trade Center, gives this edition extra significance. 
"There is a special emphasis in coming to New York to play," Maryland coach Gary Williams said. 
"On the basketball side, I was looking at the fourth-place fin­ishers in this tournament the last four years and it was really find out something about our team. You can schedule 10 Ws or play in this and see how good you are." 
It is not only the chance to help New York continue its return to normal following the Sept. 11 attacks that makes this sixth annual ·event important. 
The tournament, sponsored by IKON, has raised $2 million for cancer research, a subject close to Arizona coach Lute Olson, who lost his wife, Bobbi, to ovar­ian cancer last year. 
Her death became a focal point for Arizona's run to the national championship game last season, where the Wildcats lost 
to Duke. 
"Bobbi is another reason we're glad to play in this event," he said. "Research has made great strides and we're just hopeful that we can have a part in eradi­cating this horrible disease." 
Arizona will definitely have the 
most differ­
ent look from 
Georgetown, "This is a situation where last season D u k e , with four
we're starting a week to 
Kentucky and starters gone,
10 days before the others 
Texas. They're three early 
all great pro­start." entries to the grams so obvi­NBA draft. ously the com­The only
Billy Donovan
petition is starter back tough and we Florida coach is point guard 
expect to real­ly find out something about our team. You can schedule 10 Ws or play in this and see how good you are." 
The Terrapins will face Arizona on Thursday night in the Coaches vs. Cancer Classic, the official tip-off to the season. Maryland, No. 2 in the AP's pre­season poll, will be playing a fel­low Final Four participant from last season. 
No. 5 Florida plays No. 16 Temple in the other game. The winners will meet Friday night, as will the losers. 
"I was looking at the fourth­place finishers in this tourna­ment the last four years and it was Georgetown, Duke, Kentucky and Texas," Williams said. "They're all great pro­grams so obviously the competi­tion is tough and we expect to J a s o n 
Gardner and he applied for the draft, then decided to return. 
"Our point guards through the years have been outstanding and Jason fits into that mold," Olson said. "The biggest thing he and Luke Walton and Rick Anderson have to do is provide leadership for these young players who have no clue what Division I bas­ketball is all about. 
"Jason has been taking a strong leadership role not only on but off the court. It's a great experience for him because he has to provide the.leadership." 
Maryland has four starters back from the team that lost to Duke in the national semifinals in March. The Terrapins were picked behind only the Blue Devils in the preseason poll, matching the highest ranking in 
Best Pizza East of Anywhere! 
Monda}I-Tuesday .Su11er Deal! 
Large 1 Topping Pizza & Order of Breadsticks w/ Sause 
7.99! 
(Monday & Tuesday Only) 


PIZZA COMPANY® 
adonerlght. 
271-1277 
school history. 
"This is the third time in the last four years we've been in the top six or better in the preseason so we've been through this before," Williams said. "We'd rather be here than not ranked in the top 100, which we weren't when we got here. The ranking's nice but the preseason stops Thursday." 
Florida-Temple is a rematch of last season's NCAA second­·round game that Temple won by 21 points. This will be the first game as a Hall of Farner for Temple coach John Chaney. 
He was inducted last month 
and having a plaque in 
Springfield, Mass., hasn't 
changed him one bit. 
"We don't have a lot of quality players on our ball club," he said in his usual self-deprecating manner. "We have Lynn Greer and Kevin Lyde but we'll be missing David Hawkins. We felt he was going to be a big help but he's ineligible the first semester. Last year, with us playing a lot of matchup zone, we found them shooting the ball a little bit poor-Iy." 
Florida's backcourt will the key. Brett Nelson returns off a very good sophomore year and Justin Hamilton starts his come­back from major knee surgery that limited him to 14 games last season. 
"This is a situation where we're starting a week to 10 days before the others start," Florida coach Billy Donovan said. "But Kentucky lost its two games here last year and came back and ran off a bunch of wins and then won the SEC. Certainly, these early games helped them." 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Foster suspended for 'extra benefits' 
fusocia.ted Press 
-
LOS ANGELES 
UCLA running back DeShaun Foster, the nation's third-lead­ing rusher and a top llcisman Trophy candidate, has been declared ineligible for competi­tion by the school and will miss Saturday's game against No. 7 Oregon at the Rose Bowl. 
The NCAA made UCLA aware of a possible "extra ben­
efits" viola-ti on by Foster on Tuesday, the school said Wednesday. 
Foster was declared ineligible for competition, a standard procedure in "extra bene­fits" situa­tions, follow­ing a meet­ing between 
athletic director Peter Dalis, a member of the NCAA enforce­ment staff and Foster. 
"We were made aware by the NCAA of a possible viola­tion in connection with DeShaun and have had to declare him ineligible for this week's game," Dalis said in a news release. 
UCLA said that as soon as complete information is gath­ered, it will submit a report that includes the facts of the case and a request that Foster's eligibility be restored. 
There is no timetable for reinstatement, the university said, but added the standard penalty in cases of this type is 10 percent of the season-one game. 
Foster, a 6-foot-1, 215-pound senior from Tustin, leads the Pac-10 in rushing with 1,109 yards on 216 carries. Ile is averaging 138.63 yards per game and 5.1 yards per carry. He also leads the conference 
"We were made aware by the NCAA ofa possible violation in connection with DeShaun and have had to declare him ineligible for this week's game." 
Peter Dalis UCLA athletic director 
with 13 touch­downs-12 rushing and one receiv­ing. 
Foster didn't prac­tice for the 1 7 t h ­ranked Bruins on Wednesday, school spokesman M a r c Delllins 
said. 
Foster, whose 722 career rushing attempts are the most in UCLA history, ranks third on the school's career rushing list with 3,194 yards-one yard behind Freeman McNeil. Gaston Green holds the school record with 3,731 yards. 
Aki! Harris, a 6-foot, 203­pound sophomore, and Manuel White, a 6-3, 241-pound fresh­man, figure to share the ball­carrying duties for the Bruins (6-2, 3-2 Pac-10) against Oregon (8-1, 5-1). 
THERE REALLY IS MORE TO LIFE THAN JUST BEING A 
SURVIVOR 

Join the adventure that never ends. 
ANSWER ~ 
THECALL W 
www.nd.edu/----vocation 
page 19 · 
Thursday, November 8, 2001 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
tttttitfffflttHttfftffHttffffffltttffffttffffttttHfflttt $ 



Make a differenc· -! 
Become an ACE teac 
~ 
JoinA~E Information Night 
Tonight Tonight Tonight Tonight 
LaFortune Ballroo/ : Q Q 
Jim Rigg, Memphis, TN 
Sarah Karr, St.Petersburg, FL 
ACE is a two-year, post-graduate service program featuring three pillars: Master degree teacher preparation, community life, and spiritual development. 
i 
To find out more about ACE, please stop by 112 Badin Hall or call us at 1-7052. 
: 
-I 
I 
I 
.., I 
. ' ' 
' 
' 
' 
r----------------------------­
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, November 8, 2001 
FOOTBALL 
Losses leave Irish with little more than pride 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Associate Sports Editor  think we are a pretty good team." "There's a lot of positives," linebacker Courtney Watson said.  ing for pride. People try to come in and tell you you're playing for pride, but that's all you had to  bounce back. You can't ever accept losing." At the beginning of the season,  the rest of the their games, it's unclear what N if any N bowl the Irish will be invited to. But Davie  
"A lot of times, all you can talk  begin with, anyway."  nobody could have imagined that  said the Irish want to play in a  
At the beginning of the season,  about is the negatives if you're  The current situation is similar  the Irish would be staring_ a 3-5  bowl if they're offered the oppor­ 
the Irish had lofty expectations.  having the season like this.  But  to the one Wat.son faced when he  record in the face. But after  tunity to play in one.  
They talked about cracking into  there are a lot of positives."  was a freshman two years ago.  Boston College tailback William  "If we can go 6-5 and have a  
the Top 10. They talked about  However, with words like tradi­ In 1999, the Irish finished the  Green  ran  all  over  the Irish  chance to win  a seventh game,  
making a BCS bowl. They talked  tion and respect being thrown at  season 5-7, the first time since  defense two weeks ago and the  you're darned right l'<l want to  
about challenging for a national  Irish players almost daily, players  1986 the  Irish  had  a  losing  offense fumbled away a golden  go play," he said.  
championship. But a 0-3 start  say ihe rest of  record. But  chance for  an  upset against  With the bulk of the coaches'  
and a 3-5 record have brought those lofty expectations crashing down to earth. Now, all the Irish are left talking about is pride. "That's exactly what it comes down to," Irish head coach Bob  the season is all about pride. And without being pressed. Davie said he has no problem saying  "I talked to our players today, and when you say you 're playing for pride, I'm fine with that. "  the next year, the Irish fin­ished the regular sea­son 9-2 and  Tennessee last week. the Irish are just one loss away from bowl elimination. "We feel we should be sitting here with five straight wins," Walson said. "We shot ourselves  and players' attention focused on Navy and not the possible post­season ramifications, Davie said the Irish aren't giving up on the final three games. And if.the rest of the season is spent playing for  
Davie said Sunday afternoon.  that his team is  earned  a  in the foot."  pride, Davie doesn't have a prob­ 
"That's what it is ... When you lose your first three games of the season, it takes a bunch of pride  playing for pride. "I talked to  Bob Davie Irish head coach  berth in BCS bowl. "When  a I  While the Irish believe they are capable of winning their final three games, they acknowledge  lem with it ­as long as the Irish win. "It's win all the way," he said.  
and a bunch of character to keep  our  players  came in, it  that they have a  tough road.  "No question about that ... We're  
you going every week, and I think  today, and when  was  the  After hosting winless Navy next  going to do whatever we can to  
that's evidence by the fact that  you say you're playing for pride,  same type of situation," Watson  week, the Irish play away games  win."  
we are getting better."  I'm fine with that," he said after  said. ''I try to tell the younger  against No. 16 Stanford and  
It's tough to argue with Davie's  practice Monday. "That's not a  guys to keep your head up.  You  Purdue.  Contact Andrew Soukup at  
assessment that the Irish are at  minimal thing for me, that's a  can go from 5-7 to 9-3 and the  Should the Irish manage to win  asoukup~nd.edu.  
improving.  major thing. That's really all you  Fiesta Bowl ti and we had the  
The offense has gotten better.  have to begin with. We're playing  same players, the same coaches.  
Carlyle Holiday is maturing at quarterback. And the defense is ranked 14th in the nation. But as Davie said, wins and losses are all that matters. "It probably doesn't matter a whole lot what r think," he said. "We've got a chance to prove it the next three weeks and we had  for pride. We're playing to have a chance to have a winning sea­son." "I think from the very begin­ning you're playing for pride," Watson said. "From the begin­ning of the season, people put expectations on the team. But the team itself, we put expectations  and the same team." But as much as Watson and other upperclassmen try to pre­vent it from happening, players like center Jeff Faine said they see younger players getting ready to throw in the towel and look toward next season. "There are some guys, espe­ Have you skipped work to watch the World Series? Write Observer sports  NURTHFicE .-,~·,tt·t .•~·_...../,. ••'••·.. ~ t-·'.l--t. ~ CIUTPCIST  
a chance to prove it [Saturday]. We didn't play enough to win [against Tennessee] but I thought we played pretty well as a team. I  on ourselves, and that's all we can live up to. You can't come in and try to satisfy anyone else. From the beginning, you're play­ cially the young guys, who think the season is over," he said last week. "We can still turn this sea­. son around ... You've got to  1-4543  ~ Cold Weather Experts Sminutesfrom Campus Call 259-1000 for more details•  


MD AFTER FIVE 

5:30 p.m. "Criminological Issues Surrounding Gun Control", lecture by Eugene Volokh and G. Robert Blakery, Law School 120 
7:00 
p.m. Film, Taste of Cherry, Carey Auditorium, Hesburgh Library* 

7:00 
p.m. Sexual Assault Awareness Week Question and Answer Session with Advisory Board, Lafortune Student Center Foster Room 

7:00 
p.m. Mr. ND Pagent, Alumni Senior Club 


7:30 
p.m. Men's Basketball vs. EA Sports All-Stars, Joyce Center* 

7:30 
p.m. Play: "A Midsummer Night's Dream", by the actors from the London Stage, Riley High School* 

7:30 
p.m. Jim Forest lecture, "Bearing the Gift of Peace: Thomas Menton's Advice to Peacemakers", DeBartolo 102 


8:00 
p.m. Concert: ND Symphony . Orchestra, Washington Hall 

8:00 
p.m. "Si la gente quiere comer came, If the People Want to Eat Meat, Let Them Eat Meat, The Remarkable Story of My Brother", Performance Artist and Bilinigual Storyteller, Antonio Sacre, Annenberg Auditorium 


8:30 
p.m. -10:30 p.m. Drop In Lacrosse, Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 

8:30 
p.m. -Midnight ND Express Pool Room open, free billiards, LaFortune Student Center 


9:00 p.m. Acoustic Cafe, LaFortune Huddle 
Saturda", Hov. 10
10:00 p.m. Movies: American Pie2 and 
5:00 p.m. Morrissey Unplugged, Morrissey American Pie, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 
Manor (begins at 4:00 p.m.) Alumni Senior Club 
10:00 p.m. Karaoke contest and dance, 
6:00 p.m. Lista de espera/Wait List, 
presented by director Juan Carlos Tabio, 
FridalJ, Hov. 9 
Carey Auditorium, Hesburgh Library 
7:00 p.m. -10:00 p.m. Drop In Badminton, 
7:00 p.m. Men's Hockey vs. Ferris State, Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 
Joyce Center Fieldhouse 
7:00 p.m. Men's Hockey vs. Ferris State, 
7:30 p.m. Asian Allure, Washington Hall* Joyce Center Fieldhouse 
7:30 p.m. Play: "A Midsummer Night's 
7:00 p.m. Women's Volleyball vs. St. John's 
Dream", by the actors from the London Joyce Center* 
Stage, Riley High School* 
7:00 p.m. Brava Gente Brasileira/A Brave 
7:30 p.m. Movies: American Pie2 and New Land presented by director Lucia 
American Pie, DeBartolo 101 and 155* Murat, Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
8:30 p.m. -Midnight ND Express Pool 
7:30 p.m. Play: "A Midsummer Night's 
Room open, free billiards, LaFortune Dream", by the actors from the London 
Student Center Stage, Riley High School* 
9:30 p.m. -1 :00 a.m. Card Game Night, Uno 
7:30 p.m. Movies: American Pie2 and 
and Phase 10, etc., Coleman Morse Center American Pie, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 
10:00 p.m. -1:00 a.m. Open Karaoke in the 
8:00 p.m. 807 Mass, Lounge, Coleman Huddle, LaFortune Student Center Morse Center 
10:00 p.m. Movies: American Pie2 and 
8:30 p.m. -Midnight Co-ed Billards American Pie, DeBartolo 101 and 155* Tournament, Lafortune Student Center 
9:00 p.m. Crafting Corner: Soap Carving, Programs subject to change without Dooley Room, Lafortune Student Center notice. 
10:00 p.m. Musical Comedy Show, Luke 
* All programs are free to ND students 
Sienkowski, Carey Auditorium, Hesburgh unless marked by an *.
library 
10:00 p.m. Comic, Alexandra McHale, LaFortune Student Center, Ballroom 
10:00 p.m. Movies: American Pie2 and American Pie, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 
FOR ~ORE INFORhlfATION, VISIT: w~,w.nd.edu/~sao/ 
Thursday, November 8, 200 I The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
A preseason look at postseason favorites 

March Madness may be four months away, but the question is already in the air. "Can anyone beat the Duke Blue Devils?" 
With Duke's incredible talent it seems unlikely, but 
Joe Llcandro 
anything can happen dw-­ing March Irish Madness. Insight These 15 are top onmy list. 
No.1 Duke 
Only a team as talented as the Duke Blue Devils could lose last year's Naismith player of the year, Shane Battier, and still be consid­ered the favorite to repeat as National Champions. This year's Duke squad features the best play­er in the country and likely future No. 1 NBA draft pick in point guard Jason Williams. Duke's sta1iing line-up is scary consider­ing that all of these players are potential first round draft picks in the NBA In addition to Williams, the starting lineup will include center Carlos Boozer, forwards Mike Dunleavy, Jr. and Rutgers transfer Dahntay Jones, and guard Chris Duhon. 
No. 2 Maryland 
Duke's toughest competition will likely come from within its own conference. The Terps, an ACC rival, nearly beat the Blue Devils in last year's Final Four until their substantial first-half lead came crashing dovvn in the second half. Junior point guard Steve Blake was the only player who was able to contain Duke's Williams last year. Maryland senior center Lonny Baxter and senior shooting guard Juan Dixon will form a potent inside-outside combination that will be difficult for opposing 
teams to stop. 
No. 3 Kentucky 
Tubby Smith's 2001 squad has a legitimate chance to compete for the NCAA title because of the deci­sions of All-Americans Tayshaun Prince and Keith Bogans to return for tl1eir senior and junior years respectively. Prince. a small for­ward and a.st year's SEC player of the year, is one of the best offen­sive performers in the country, while shooting guard Bogans takes it strong to the hole every time. The W.tldca1s received some bad news this summer when starting center Jason Parker went down with a season-ending knee injury. 
No. 4 Iowa 
The Iowa Hawkeyes boast one of the nation's best yow1g coaches in Steve Alford and two of the nation's premier players in shoot­ing guard Luke Recker and power forward Reggie Evans. Evans, last year's NCAA leading rebounder is an absolute animal on the glass, while Becker's ability to slash to the basket is a nightmare for defenders. 
No. 5 Florida 
Much like the Iowa Hawkeyes, the Florida Gators have a great young coach of their own in Billy Donovan. Although the Gators lost 
. senior guard Teddy Dupay over the summer for violating NCAA rules, the Gators are still strong contenders in the SEC. This year's Gators team will depend on the presence ofsenior all-American center Udonis Haslem in the paint and the playmaking ability of flashy guard Brett Nelson. 
No. 6 Illinois 
The Fighting Illini have the 
depth they need to battle with Iowa for the Big Ten Championship. Point guard Frank Williams is the second best point guard in the country behind Duke's Williams. Coach Bill Self is counting on power forward Brian Cook to have a monster year in the paint. However, the Illini received some unfortunate news when scrappy small fonvard Lucas Johnson was lost for the season due to a knee iajury suffered in practice. 
No. 7 UCLA 
Coach Steve Lavin is looking to gain respect by leading the Bruins to the Final Four. This year Lavin has a legitimate shot to do just that with his talented Bruin squad. The Bruins are led once again by the deadly 3-point shooting of small forward Jason Kapono. If center Dan Gadzuric can stay out offoul trouble and ifhighly touted fresh­men Cediic Bozeman and Dijon Thompson live up to their hype, UCLA. could be a very dangerous team in March. 
No. 8Kansas 
Coach Roy Williams mayjust have the most talented combina­tion of forwards in juniors Drew Gooden and Nick Collison. With the head-ups play of point guard Drew Heinrich and the deft touch ofshooting guard Jeff Boschee, the Jayhawks won't be too shabby in the backcourt either. This team will miss the athleticism ofdepart­ed senior Kenny Gregory. but they are once again still the pre-season favorite to win the Big 12 Conference. 
No. 9 Missouri 
Krzyzewski' s coaching protege, Quinn Snyder, has restored the pride ofthe Missouri Tigers in only 
The College of Arts and Letters Invites you to the presentation of the 
REV4 CI-IARLES E~ S1:-"IEEDY, C~S~C~ AWARD FOR EXCELLENCE IN TEAClIING 
Honoring PROFESSOR STEPHEN M. FALLON 
Program of Liberal Studies 
REV. WILSON (BILL) D. MISCAMBLE, C.S.C. Department of History 

Friday, November 16, 2001 
4:00 p.m. McKenna Hall Auditoriutn 
two years. Missouri has perhaps the most exciting player in the nation in shooting guard Kareem Rush. Rush, likely a top five pick in the NBA draft, can do it all with his unbelievable leaping ability and sharp accurate 3-pointers. If Rush can get any help from his friends, the Tigers may overtake Kansas. 
No. 10 Virginia 
Last year, Virginia surprised everybody when the Cavaliers reached the top 10 during the reg­ular season. They will miss the services of exciting point guard Majestic Mapp who suffered a sea­son-ending knee injury this sum­mer. Coach Pete Gillen still has some excellent players on his squad in shooting guard Roger Mason, Jr,. power forward Travis Watson and center Adam Hall. Watson, last year's leading rebounder in the ACC, is an absolute glass cleaner, while Hall's incredibly dunking and shot-block­ing ability make hin1 one of the more exciting players to watch in the country. 
No. 1i Memphis 
Okay, Memphis did not even make the NCAA tournament last year so how could they be consid­ered a top 15 team going into this year? The answer is very simple and his name is DeJuan Wagner. Wagner is the top freshman in the nation already drawing compar­isons to Allen Iverson. Wagner, who once scored 100 points in a high-school game, coupled with center Kelly Wise's ability in the paint should make Coach John Calipari's team a very intriguing team to watch. 
No. 12 St. Joseph's 
St. Joe's Marvin O'Connor had the most incredible performance of last year's NCAA tournament when he dropped 39 points on the Stanford Cardinal. O'Connor, along with sophomore point guard Jameer Nelson, comprise the best starting back court in America. If Phil Martelli can get any play from his post players, St. Joe's will win the Atlantic 10 Conference and be a tough out in the NCAA tourna­ment. 
No. 13 Stanford 
Yes, they lost four of their five starters from la'>t year's squad including the Collins twins, but they have the best pure shooter in the nation in junior Casey Jacobsen. The all-American Jacobsen is the type of player that can carry an entire team on his back. Look for sophomore forward Julius Barnes to have a breakout 
.,. 
season. When power forward Teyo Johnson returns from his duties on the Stanford football team and when center Curtis Borchardt finally recovers from injury, the Cardinal will be a for­
midable force in the Pac-10. 
No. 14 Boston College 
Last year's regular season Big East champion is out to prove that its title was no fluke. The Eagles return last year's co-Big East play­er of the year in shooting guard Troy Bell, but Bell may miss the first two weeks ofthe season due to an ankle u~ury. The Eagles will need Kenny Walls to have another strong year from three point land and forward Uka Agbai to main­tain his ferocity on the boards if they want to repeat last year's suc­cess. 
No. 15 Notre Dame 
The Irish will surprise a lot of people in a weak Big East confer­ence this year. Yes, they lost Troy Murphy, but they return three of five starters from last year's squad including perhaps the most athlet­ic player in the country in Ryan Humphrey. The Irish have more depth this season. If freshman McDonald's All-American point guard Christ Thomas lives up to his billing, the Irish will make a return to the NCAA tournament. 
Contact Joe licandro at lican­dro. l@nd.edu. The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe writer and not necessarily those ofthe Observer. 
• THUR.SDAY, Nov 9 • 
HE:SSURGFl LISR.A.r~Y ,A,UD!TOR!UM 
7:00 Plvl 
FREE ADMISSION 
Pr;: r.: ~ r.-t-i--nr. r., r:w ¦
•
Th'~ D-tcP,\fffMt,'.;NT 01" F"l:Llvh T!!:Lt:::Vl!;il!;QN i»N!.) 'l"l-n::...._'!:"l<?E 
l}-c;;,n 1· mfa~ tJ[(;< n-r fi/11(;."f_m·~ mm M~;lft ¼Aw e,-r:,h mkit-;em.a 1\ii,iuref 
• • • • • • • ¦ • • ¦ • • 

¦ 
¦ Nl>cinerna 
Page 22 The Obseruer . SPORTS Thursday, November 8, 2001 

Fridc1y, 9 l'-.Jc::>"~mb~r 200:::L ND Rc::>TC: units paiy tribute. tc:> Ame.ric.a's milita,ry 'J'e>te.r.an,s with gue.st ,spe.a,l<:,e,r ~~L J3-;rz"c7;;n ~­J:?:.__eg?.T77_, LJ..5~~J:?:.__.> (-R._er__,) 4:00pm :a.t Ste>:n.eehce:r._gce C7Iczrk FV'czr-~er?Ze>r-iiczL I:r:Lc,,1<e>rne:r:i.t -vv-e,:a_t:h,,e,:r s:i.tee -Steep:a.ri C:::e,:r:i.te:r  
DECEMBER GRADUATES...--~ "':-:~, \\ '\ \~ -,c-,,•-~ Sure, spmeday you'tt ·change the world. . . · ,, ·· come to someday. City Yea~ an Amer1Corps program. has an exciting opportunity for those December qraduates who have an interest ,n being a social entrepreneur. Take advantage of this powerful 0 ;portunity to spe,1d 6 months in seMce with City Year Detroit Spend 6 month:; (startin9 eany January 2002 to mid June) in service to the community Earn $2362.50 educational award Receive a weekly living stipend and health benefits Work with diverse teams Receive the free coveted Timberland® uniform Tutor and mentor elementary and middle school students Develop and lead powerful after-school programs Please call 313-874-6825 1f you have any quesuons orvi,1t our website http://wwwcityyearorg to download an application or apply online th;ough http//wwv,.arnericorps.org. Application Deadline is December 15th.  

I.• 
I I I I I I I 
I 
intricacies of doubles. "Casey isn't a pure doubles player. 
Tennis 
He's more of an athlete and an all­continued from page 24 court player who has learned how to use his athletic skills. !-le rrally has Smith and Taborga make a unique helped them with his athletic.ism," doubles team, featuring a righty­Bayliss said. "Javier has another set leftv combination that can be a real of' skills. He probably has the best we~pon. Smith, the right-handed appreciation for the game of doubles player, and Taborga, who is left­on our team. He can do everything ­handed, compliment each other with he can lob, he has touch, and he's a 
different strengths  little more natural  
and skills.  coming  to  the  
"You've got the lefiy-righty combi­nation, which is  "You've got the lefty-righty combination,  net." Smith and Taborga are the  
always Bayliss  good," said.  which is always good."  first Notre Dame doubles pairing to  
"You're getting a different look. It's  Bob Bayliss  compete in the National Indoor  
like hitting a  left­ Irish head coach  Championships  
handed  pitcher  since 1997 when  
one inning and a  Brian Patterson  
right-handed.  and  Jakub  
pitcher the next  Pietrowski gained  

inning. That's helpful. and also gives· an automatic bid by winning the them the ability to do some things at Region IV doubles title. the net in terms of poaching in cer­The tournament will open tain situations that two righties Thursday afternoon with first-round wouldn't have or two lefties and quarterfinal matches, followed wouldn't have." by the semifinals on Friday and the 
Bayliss characterizes Smith as the finals on Saturday afternoon. more athletic off the two, possessing an impressive quickness, while Contact Rachel Biber at Taborga better understands the biber.l@nd.edu. 
• Rico Casares/The Observer 
Casey Smith returns a volley at la~t weeknd's Midwest regional singles/doubles tournament in Madison, WI. 

··~,.. -\·~~ 
j:: '#.ll:7JJN.:.'ClJfl'I~-¦ : · 
~-""'"' Buffet :::~11izza 


Thursday, November 8, 2001 The Obseroer . TODAY page 23 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
-----------~----------------------------------~--------------------------­
FOURTH AND INCHES 
HAO IT NOT SEEN FOR ONE IMPORTANT t>ISGOVERY. NATE NEWTON MIGHT HAVE GOTTEN A.WAY WITH EVERYTHI 
FOXTROT 
I'M JUST SA'!'ING THAT 

TAICE THAT ONE FooO 
WITH So MUCH MoNEY 
CHALLENGE THEY ALWAYS 
ll.T STAl<E, THE STUFF 
Do -SURE, EATING 8uGS 
THEY t>o ON 
ANO WORMS AND COW 
BLOOD 1S GROSS, BUT Fof? 
A M\LLION BuclCS I'D Oo IT. 
h~ 
·-. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 38 Street shadower 1 Queen's land 40 Thit and thas? 6 Data card debris 41 Dangerous 
10 Fast-food option 
pronouncements 43 Medieval or14 Greens modem weapon 15 leaming style 45 Tough cleaner16 Discordant 46 Laugh on a17 West Indian bike?
parent? 
46 Come clean, 20 Dangerous 
with "up•
situation 49 New York21 Pitch congresswoman
22 Part of N.E.A.: 
_Lowey
Abbr. 
50 Some time ago
23 "Kiss me as if it 
52 Most respectful were the last (of)time" speaker 55 Earning position 25 Telephone part 60 Art form in28 Fruit cake? 
Quebec?
33 Draw upon 62 Carbon 
34 lap dog 
compound 35 Buy in a hurry 63 1960's singer 36 SeaWorld with the Del resident Satins 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
S C A M A L A W A L O U D L A D E M O L E P A U S E A N O N w o R 
(mistress in Irish history) 27 Get strong again 29 Seat of Dallas County, Alabama 30 Computer logo 
keep their heads 
________ above water 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
~---------------------­
64 Ubangi's outlet 
65 Dress (up) 
66 ltsy-bitsy 
67 Supplicant's 
supporters 
DOWN 
1 Army E-6: Abbr. 2 Mata 3 Spirit 4 Got together 5 Did sums 6 Shore dinner 
appetizer 7 Jolly response 8 Loss of muscle 
coordination 9 Clinton, e.g.: Abbr. 10 Buccaneer's place 
11 California town east of Santa Barbara 
12 Ready and willing 
13 Kind of tradition 
18 Comic Lenny 
19 Armand of "The Marrying Man• 24 They may hang 
in the balance: Abbr. 25 Like some jobs 
RYAN
B B
TOM KEELEY 
EFUDDLED AND EMUSED . CUNNINGHAM 
FOUR THOUSAND POUNDS OF BROWNIE MIX?I? WHAT COULi> THIS MAN POSSIBLY BE VP TO? 
BILL AMEND 
APERFECT BUT 0oN'T MoM'S LETTll'l& P.&.IGE 
THAT REMINDS ME­
[)(AMPLE! YOU l'lEED coot< 0&NNER ToNL(;HT. 
MAkE To HAVE A 

Puzzle by Manny Noeowaky 
later.00 CANCER (June 21-July 22):
32 Parts of chapels 53 Jumping a line, 57 Rooster site, 
Creative projects will help you feel
3-4 Less apt to wait e.g. maybe 
relaxed and less stressed. Don't
one's tum 
58 Result of honing 
neglect responsibilities to your37 Have good 
54 Concern for an 
partner, or you can expect a fight.
M.P. 
59 Golden Triangle 
intentions 
Include family in activities and you
country 
won't have any problems. 000
56 This mar follow
39 Reddish-brown 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Put
words o 61 Chi. clock42 China's Sun 
your efforts into better financial
wisdom setting
_-sen 
planning and wise investments if 44 Like some 
you have been too generous with chairs Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
friends or children. Opportunities to make residential changes will be
47 Pro Bowl site are available by touch-tone phone: 
excellent 000
48 Eat 1·900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
51 Striking noise Annual subscriptions are available for the 
· Birthday Baby: You are sensitive, loving and willing to stand up for 52 • Three best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
your friends, family and beliefs. You are creative and intuitive. 
lives" years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
· (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
© 2001 Universal Press Syndicate 
THIS DAY: John Cleese, Ruby 
Dee, Ivan Reitman, Peter Firth, Lee 
Greenwood 
Happy Birthday: You'll want to share your thoughts, ideas and time. This is a great year for inter­action and learning all you can about what interests you. You'll find a way to make any desired changes. Take advantage of oppor­tunities that come your way. Your numbers: 1, 3, 11, 28, 33, 35 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your ability to see things clearly will enable you to help others. Look at your surroundings and find ways to make them more comfort­able. Open your house to others and make new friends. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your involvement in groups will be eye-opening. You are likely to find a great buy if you attend an antique auction or flea market. Your ability to help children will be appreciated. 0000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Socialize with friends. You may find romance at work-related events. Don't neglect unfinished business. If it needs to be done, put in some overtime and avoid stress 

...
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year D Enclosed is $50 for one semester Name -------------------------­
-,.
Address ------------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON 

EUGENIA LAST 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl 22): You 
will be emotionally torn if your 
partner is m>t treating you the way 
you had hoped Try to be compas­
sionate and unders!andinj;, He or 
she may be going through uncer­
tainties at work. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You can make some extra cash through overtime or a part-time job. Tfi.e money will come in handy and put you in a much better frame of mind. You'll also feel better and accomplish more. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
Get out shopping. You will find items you've been lookingfor. Your interest in something or someone new will flourish. Take time to do yourown thing. 00000 
SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 
Don't be too sure that you'll make enough money to cover your pur· · chases. You'll be disappointed if your partner doesn't comply with your plans. Show a little compas• sion and you may get your way. 
00 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
Family get-togethers will be warm and affectionate. You may meet someone new through a relative. You can offer suggestions, but don't take on someone's burdens. 
0000 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
H you spend too much, you'll suf­fer financially later. You'll just have to settle for whatever you can 
afford.000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your emotional well-being will be stifled Don't let your partner put a damper on the day. Make arrange­ments with friends. It's time you looked out for your own interests. 
000 

Campus Sports OTHE National Sports
BSERVER 
. Column: Licandro p. 21 
. NCAA Basketball, p. 18 
. 
Football, p. 20 . NCAA Football, p. 18, 15 

. 
Column: Boylan p. 16 . NBA, p.17 


. NHL, p. 15
--PORTS 
Thursday, November 8, 2001 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Taking the lead 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Taborga, Smith·earn bid as top 16 team 
By RACHEL BIBER SpomWriter 
Building their reputation as one of the top doubles teams in the nation, seniors Casey Smith and Javier Taborga have earned an at•large bid to par­ticipate in the 16-team field at the Omni Hotels National Intercollegiate Indoor Championships in Farmers Branch, Texas. 
Smith and Taborga go into the last fall event of the Irish season boasting a 13-3 record and No. 34 national ranking. Topping eight of their last nine opponents, the Irish duo has made clear their potential to remain serious doubles con­tenders throughout the rest of the season. 
"They got in at-large, which is pretty good. It's pretty hard to do, because there are only 16 doubles teams in the country that get in," Not.re Dame head coach Bob Bayliss said. "I think their performance at the [ITA All-American Championships]. their performance against Southern Cal, and their perfor­mance in the regional has shown that they have the chance to be one of the coun­try's better doubles teams." 
The pair reached the semifi­nals at the Omni Hotels Region IV Championships two weeks ago before being defeated by eventual champions Amer Delic and Mike Calkins of Illinois. a team that Taborga and Smith defeated earlier in the season. The semifinal loss snapped an eight-match winning streak for the Irish team. dating all the way back to a first-round defeat at the All•American Championships in the beginning of October. 
Missing the chance to gain a bid for the National Indoors at the regional event, the Irish were one of only six teams in the nation earning an at-large berth. However, with an incred­ibly competitive field at this weekend's tournament, the Irish doubles team will no doubt face an uphill battle. 
"They are capable of doing extremely well. but it isn't easy," Bayliss said. "They've really had to work at getting pretty good." 
sec TENNIS/page 22 
. Irish find continuity in returning seniors, coach 
By KERRY SMITH 
Spons Wrirer 
With one more exhibition outing left before the Irish kick off their regular season schedule, head coach Mike Brey sees a big difference in this year's squad from last season's: continuity and established leadership. 
"I [feel more comfortable] in terms of the guys having more of a grasp of what we want." Brey said. "I think we didn't learn that until January last year. I think right out of the gate we know who we are and what our prjori­ties are in our program." 
While the Irish lost their big man down front when junior Troy Murphy elected to enter the NBA draft rather than return for his senior season. the Irish retained something important: Brey. 
After losing former head coach Matt Doherty to the University of North Carolina Chapel Hill after just one year manning the Irish bench, Brey's return for a second season gave the Irish some continuity heading into the off­season and the opportunity to establish a more-defined team identity. 
"That's a huge thing for our basket­ball program continuity. or lack of, hurts you," Brey said. "Starting with that right there helps us. My style, my personality, they will adapt to the teacher. they just need to know who that teacher is." 
Over his 16-month tenure at Notre Dame that teacher has watched lead­ership on the Irish emerge from sever­al of his upperclassmen -namely the three senior captains Ryan Humphrey, David Graves and Harold Swanagan along with junior Matt Carroll. 
"What helped me sleep last summer was to think of those three seniors and Matt Carroll and how much college 
basketball they've played and how 
niuch they've won," Brey said. 
The senior captains are putting all those basketball games -wins and losses -to good use in leading the younger squad members and newcom­ers to the team. 
~It's kind of fun. You get to run things and help the team out and impose your will on everyone else," Swanagan said. 
As far as Swanagan goes, that will has been hard work and determination on and off the court. 
On the court, Swanagan has emerged as a non-flashy motivator who may not score the most points, but keeps the Irish on offense and in • the running during close games. That reputation has come with a lot of hard work. 
"I did a lot of conditioning and run­ning to get my weight down so I can play better and last longer," Swanagan said. 
Along with Swanagan, Humphrey and Graves have shown from the get­go this season that they're ready to step up into a more vocal leadership role. 
"What I found was 20 minutes into the first practice, I took a deep breath and saw Humphrey helping [Jordan] Cornette and Graves helping Chris Thomas and that's what continuity is supposed to do," Brey said. "The older guys who have been in the system are helping the younger guys, and it helps us coach-." 
That leadership and continuity should be evident tonight at 7 :30 p.m. when the [rish take on the EA Sports All-Stars at the Joyce Center. The game will be the last exhibition outing before the Irish take on the University of New Hampshire to open the regular season Nov. 16. 
Contact Kerry Smith at ksmith.2@nd.edu. 

..-. Men's Basketball exhibition, Thursday, 7:30 pm. 
OBSERVER
. Women's Soccor vs. Boston College, Friday, 5:00 p.m.
s 
ordine classifieds 
. ND Volleyball vs. St. John's, Friday, 7:00 p.m.AT AGLANCE . ND Hockey vs. Ferris State, Friday, 7:00 p.m.1 http://www.nd.edu/~observer 








