The battle continues
To print or not to print 
Palestinian policemen sifted through the rubble left 
Wednesday
Readers respond to The Observer's decision to 
behind when an Israeli helicopter shot at a
refrain from printing David Horowitz's 
building. injuring 77.
controversial advertisement. 
APRIL 4, 2001 
World & Nation . page 5
Viewpoint . page 13 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXIV NO. 116 
GRADUATE STUDENT UNION 


New administration takes office 
plan to follow up on many of and their children. 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
these policies. including "For married students we News Writer 
options for healthcare and a came up with something graduate student center. like a dentist day where The gavel bang ending "We are really enthusias­kids can go and get a free Tuesday night's Graduate tic. We don't want to let go checkup or sports activi­Student I.inion meeting sym­of what you did," Burgos ties," Deshpande said. "It bolized more than just the told the committee. "Mark will give us a better life for conclusion of a meeting. has already agreed to help students and their families." Outgoing president Mark us on the [healthcare) She told The Observer her Buckles handed over com­issue." adminis­mand of the GSU to newly The two tration elected president Gabriela quickly intends .to
"We would really like to 
Burgos and her vice presi­jumped imple­
know how the committee 
dent Kishori Deshpande. full force m e n t 
"l officially hand the com­into their members and students feel. mentor­mittee over to our new pres­term by We would like to get ing pro­ident and vice president," announc­grams,
feedback from the
Buckles said at 8:30 p.m. ing the greater 
"It was a great pleasure t h r e e students. " communi­working with you all," said m a i n cation Alexander Samuel, outgoing points of between
Kishori Despande
vice president and Burgos's their plat­incoming
new vice president
opponent in the election. "I f o r m : students 
want to personally thank improving and their 
each and everyone of you -new stu-more sea­
you were willing to sacrifice dent orientation, fostering a soned counterparts. and 
a little bit of your time to better rapport between stu­talks by professionals about 
help the GSU." dents and faculty and focus­issues like stress manage­
"We wish we could have ing on job placement for ment. 
done better. We made some graduate students. In an attempt to cement 
ground on computer clus­Burgos and Deshpande stronger student-faculty 
ters, healthcare and social plan to establish programs relations, Deshpande pro­
life," Samuel said, challeng­meant to ease the transition posed getting the two 
ing the new administration that students face entering groups together via formal 
to continue the work graduate school. They also dinners and athletic events. 
Buckles and he started. hope to make this change The administration also 
Burgos and Deshpande easier on students' spouses 
see GSU/page 4 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


Wiskirchen's condition upgraded to 'stable' 
and colleagues have been in almost 
• Assistant band 
constant vigil at his bedside. director suffered "We saw him [Monday], and tho stroke Monday situation looked very grave," band 
director Kenneth Dye said. "Today we went in, and he was consciousBy JASON McFARLEY and responded very well." 
News Editor 
Word of Wiskirchen's illness led well-wishers to hold a prayer ser­
Father George Wiskirchen, assis­vice Monday night. 
tant director of Notre Dame bands, "This has brought the band com-
was upgraded 
m unity closer 
from critical to together
stable condition at 
"We're optimistic and alumni,
St. Joseph's 
friends
hope that everyone who 
Regional Medical everyone has
Center Tuesday, knows him says a prayer." 
shown sup­
following a stoke port. We're all 
Monday morning 
Kenneth Dye hoping for thethat left him para­
best," Dye
lyzed on one side band director said.
of his body and 
Wiskirchen,unable to speak. 
a 31-year
As of Tuesday night, Wiskirchen, Notre Dame faculty member, was
72, was in stable condition but rushed to the hospital around
remained without motor abilities 12:15 p.m. Monday, according toon the right side of his body and Father Bill Seetch, Wiskirchen'sspeech capacity, hospital officials friend and fellow Corby Hall resi­said. Doctors expect to know the 
dent.
full extent of the stroke's effects by Dye said Wiskirchen was discov­Thursday. 
ered collapsed in his room afterOn Tuesday, physicians moved colleagues realized that he hadn'tWiskirchen from the hospital's crit­
reported to work at the usual 8:30 
ical care unit to a general patient floor, where they are monitoring Monday morning. the congestive heart failure he "We're optimistic and hope that already suffers from. everyone who knows him says a 
In the meantime, band members prayer," Dye said. 
FACULTY SENATE 


Porter proposes resolution to dissolve body 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News Editor 
Citing waning support from colleagues and a lack of respect from Notre Dame administra­tors. on Tuesday Faculty Senate chair Jean Porter proposed a resolution to amend the University's Academic Articles, a move that would signal the end of the s~!nate. 
The resolution would strike Article IV Section 3 of the Academic Articles and would have the effect of dissolving the senate, Porter said at the body's meeting Tuesday night. 
"DP-bate over surh a resolution would have the salutary effect of forcing us to reflect on whether, and in what way, the faculty of this university wishes to contin­ue to assume responsibility for managing its own affairs," Porter said. 
Porter's concerns sprang from what she said were prevailing perceptions of the senate. She said colleagues continue to express opinions that the group is powerless and too often disre­spected by University adminis­trators. 
"[I)t cannot be denied that there is some truth in both per­ceptions," Porter said. 
The Academic Articles allow senate issues to be placed on the Academic Council agenda, but Porter said senate initiatives are repeatedly denied. 
University policy dictates that the senate can onlv recommend the change in the articles. If accepted by the senators, the resolution would still need approval by the Academic Council, University President Father Edward Malloy and the Board of Trustees. 
Based on that fact. Porter noted that a new senate would likelv be elected and hold office for the next few months. She said the new body could choose to revoke the resolution and continue the senatcOs existence. 
The senate will consider the resolution at its May meeting. 
On April 18, a forum is sched­uled for members to discuss the proposal. The forum is at 4:30 
p.m. in the McKenna Ball audi­torium. 


page 2 The Observer+ INSIDE Wednesday, April 4, 200 I ~--_::-_::-_-_-_-_-__::-_-~-=----------------_-_-_-__::-__::-_-_-_-__::-_-_-_-__::-_-_--======:::::::::::::::::::_-_____________ 
INSIDE COLUMN 

I 
For all the 

l 
r 
I vvrong reasons 
I· 
I 
When I read the title of Susan Sprecher's 

I 
letter to the editor Monday, "Benefits of 

' ' 
Cloning People," I was infused with such thoughts as being able to selectively clone specific organs for transplant or other useful applicalions of the science. Unfortunately, upon read­

Tom Haight
ing the article I was mere­ly disappointed with a series of poorly Assistant researched and amoral Design arguments, which is actu­Manager ally rather frightening considering the implica­tions of the technology in question. 
Among the most offensive and misguided of Sprecher's theories is that "human races are cultural artifacts with aesthetic function." Excuse me? A person is not a piece of art to be enjoyed in a gallery! A person, by defini­tion, is neither an artifact nor an aesthetic object. I hesitate to say this, but this mode of thought seems to be rather reminiscent of the type of Social Darwinism that led to the "jus­tification" of the Jewish Holocaust and the communist genocides by their perpetrators. People are not things, and are not to be treat­ed (or even referred to) as such. 
Secondly, she compares human races to extinct and endangered species of animals. Just in case the fact had eluded anyone else, the human race is not an endangered species: we are the reason there are so many endan­gered species today! 
Sprecher also seems to think that because we make attempts to preserve the genetic information and biodiversity of plants and animals, we should make an attempt to do so for humans as well. I'm not sure if she knows this, but the primary reason that efforts like these are made is not because people think it's great to have the genotype of 4,000 differ­ent varieties of corn on hand for their aes­thetic value. The reason is for the genetic research benefits it offers: if someone finds a variety of corn that's resistant to a disease plaguing another area, genetic engineers can (given enough lime) locate and transplant the genes necessary to immunize the plants with­out sacrificing productivity. With a little understanding of why genetic conservation takes place, it is hard to imagine exactly what it has to do with the preservation of biological artwork. 
By far the most disturbing hypothesis she puts forth, however, is that human races should be "preserved" as if they were breeds of livestock. Just because the gene pool is drying up is no reason to run to the lab and order up a few hundred more people. Did she ever stop to think whether or not the few remaining members of that race (or their descendants) would desire or approve of the cloning of their ancestors and their own selves for any of these purposes? 
Even if such a practice were allowed, would any of you want to look at that first full­blooded Kalahari Bushman off the cloning line and tell him, "Sorry son, you're not here for any particularly good reason. we just thought you'd make a lovely piece of educa­tional artwork." 
The views expressed in the Inside Column 
are those of the author and not necessarily 
those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Maureen Smi1he Laura Kelly Nate Phillips Graphics Amy Greene 
Kary Hall 
Sports Production 
L1uren Conti 
Karie McVoy 
Viewpoint 
Lab Tech 
Pat McElwee Peter Richardson 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) " published Monday through Friday <xc<pt durmg te1tam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member orthe Assodaml l'r,,s_ All reproduction righrs arc reserved. 
THIS WEEK IN SOUTH BEND 
Wednesday  Thursday  
. Event: Trap Shooting.  . Event: Acoustic Cafe,  
Edwardsburg  LaFortune Student Center,  
Conservation Club, 6 p.m.  top.m.  
. Event: Interfaith  . Movie: "Finding  
Christian Night Prayer.  Forrester," DeBartolo 101,  
Walsh Hall Chapel, 10  10:30 p.m.  
p.m.  


Friday Saturday 
. 
Event: Stations of the . Event: Aquarium Society Cross, Basilica of the Spring Auction. Scottsdale Sacred Heart, 7 p.m. Mall, 10 a.m. 

. 
Movie: "Space . Movie: "Bamboozled," Cowboys," DeBartolo 101. Snite Museum of Art. 9 


10:30 p.m. p.m. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports
OUTSIDE THE DOME 


Horowitz attacks 'intolerable left' at BU lecture 
BOSTON 
Offering no apologies for his advertisement rejecting black repa­rations for slavery, conservative journalist David Horowitz spoke to a crowd of 400 at the Boston University School of Management Monday night. 
"Blunt talk is a form of respect." Horowitz said. "The attitude was I hurt people's feelings [with the adl. This is a university campus. When you took a small child to an offen­sive movie, you covered their eyes, covered their ears. You can't do that with adults." 
Horowitz's talk, "Racism and the Intolerable Left." focused less on his advertisement, 'Ten Reasons Why Reparations For Slavery is a Bad Idea -and Racist Too,' and more 

"/ want to improve the quality ofintellectual life on campus. I want more vigorous debate. " 
David Horowitz conservative journalist 
on general beliefs that liberal lead­ers are damaging the lives of minorities, as well as squashing open debate on college campuses. 
"I want to improve the quality of intellectual life on campus ... Horowitz said. "I want more vigor­ous debate, more meeting of argu­ment with argument. If someone is being obnoxious, the right should be there to be obnoxious back." 
DUKE UNIVERSITY 
NCAA title ignites fiery party 
DURHAM. N.C. 
The "Old Duke" of campus lore returned in style Monday night, with a fantastic bonfire which at times burnt so hot that the cool midnight air could not stop students standing 15 yards away from sweating. And like in the old days. the festivities fea­tured beer and naked revelry. After the Duke men's basketball team's 82-72 victory over the University of Arizona in the National Championship game, an estimated 10,000 celebrators took to Main West Quadrangle with profane shouts and cheers. "I have been waiting for this moment since I was in the fifth grade," said junior Eric Blumenfeld. "I am going to run around, go crazy, hug everyone I can, burn s--­and drink a lot of beer. This is the main reason I wanted to come to Duke." The celebration began with a race between members of Sigma Chi fraterni­ty and residents of Wayne Manor to be the first to donate their bench to the eventually 15-foot-high blaze. 
LOCAL WEATHER 


q~~a~c:2
"""""' 
Showsrs T•storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Via Assoclt1'&d Press Grsl)hfcsNef 

Security was the highest priority of the College Republicans, organizers of the talk. Throughout his nearly two-hour speech, Horowitz was flanked by three bodyguards. All bags were searched at the auditori­um door by Boston University Police Department officers, and no signs were allowed inside. According to Nick Savides, president of the College Republicans, such precau­tions were necessary. 
"We discussed quite a lot of possi­bilities," Savides said. "He's had pies thrown in his face, plus his speech at Berkeley turned into a violent commotion." 
Horowitz attacked those who shield blacks from the truth, thus insulting their intelligence and ruin­ing their chances for success. 
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN 
College students target of new bill 
ANN AHBOH, Mich. 

Following the deaths of several Michigan students and one student's multiple amputations due to meningitis, a state legislator has introduced a bill to combat the spread of the disease that would make college students responsi­ble for being vaccinated. The bill, introduced by Hep. Lauren Hager (R-Port Huron), would require that all stu­dents at Michigan's private and public colleges receive immunizations against meningitis prior to living in on­campus housing. Hager said he became aware of the issue when he was contacted by Ed and Pat Wiginton of Marysville, who lost their 14-year-old son Jason to the disease in 1998. Students living in close quarters, such as in residence halls, are believed to be especially suscepti­ble to the disease. Hager was also contacted by Michigan State University student Adam Busuttil, who contracted meningitis in October 1999. He has since had to have the tips of seven of his fingers amputated. "Something need­ed to be done because I wouldn't want to go through what I went through again," Busuttil said. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeathe~ forecast for noon, Wednesday, April 4. 
40s Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

80• 
...,,......~ ............ 

C 2001 AccuWeath•r, Inc. COLD WAAM STATIONARY 
PffHW.;
®©Drill [W~~Em.\l•m 
High Low Shower• Rain l-•lorm• Flurrtc• SnoW Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Ck>udy 
Atlanta  74  GO  Las Vegas  68  48  Portland  40  25  
Baltimore  55  36  Memphis  76  63  Sacramento  61  48  
Boston  41  32  Milwaukee  45  34  St. Louis  52  35  
Chicago  51  38  New York  50  36  Tampa  66  59  
Houston  83  70  Philadelphia  57  36  Washington DC  43  39  

Wednesday, April 4, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Priest to discuss efforts to aid gang members 
. Founder of Jobs For A Future helps Latinos in LA 
Special to The Observer 
Father Greg Hoyle, founder and director of a widelv acclaimed youth violence prn·­vention program in East Los Angeles. will discuss his inno­vative efforts to assist Latino gang members at 6:30 p.m. April 10 in the Jordan Auditorium of Notre Dame's Mendoza College of Business. 
Cosponsored by Notre Dame's CenLer for Social Concerns and Institute for Latino Studies, the talk is free and open to the public. 
While serving from l986-92 as pastor of the Dolores Mission, Bovie witnessed the gang activ.ity and related problems surrounding the poorest church in the Archdiocese of Los Angeles. He responded by founding Jobs For A Future (JFF) and flomeboys Industries, both dedicated to helping Latino gang members find employ­ment and create new lives for themselves. 
Started in 1988, Jobs For A Future is an employment referral center offered at no charge to employers. It is tar­geted toward men and women in East Los Angeles, with an emphasis on assisting at-risk youths involved in gangs make a successful transition to the work environment. 
JFF provides coaching in job readiness, interview skills, resume preparation and appropriate attire for the work place. It also offers free tattoo removal, giving priority to people with tattoos that inhibit their ability to find employment. After placing people in jobs that fit their qualifications and needs, JFF continues to monitor their progress and provide follow­up services as necessary. 
D  S  T  N  G  U  
L  E  C:  T  u  
s  E  R  

Homeboy Industries was founded in 1992 as the eco­nomic development branch of JFF. It includes five small businesses that are staffed by former gang members who work together to produce apparel and merchandise bearing the Homeboy logo, make baked goods and pro­vide cleaning services. 
Both Jobs For A Futurn and Homeboy Jndusiries operate on two guiding principles that have become community slo­gans: "Nol.hing Stops a Bulle!. like a Job" and "Jobs not Jails." 
A native of Los Angeles, Doyle earned his bachelor's degree in English from Gonzaga University, his mas­ter's degree in English from Loyola Marymount University, his master of divinity degree from the Weston School of Theology and a third master's degree from the Jesuit School of Theology. Before serving as pastor of the Delores Mission, he taught at Loyola High School, worked with the Christian Based Communities of Cochabanba, Bolivia and was chaplain of the Islas Marias penal colony in Mexico and of Folsom State Prison in California. 
Boyle's life story and efforts to assist Latino gang members in East Los Angeles have been chronicled in a book titled "Father Greg and His Homeboys." He also has been featured by "60 Minutes" and People magazine. 
S H E 
R 




Anlerican Weil Society Illeets at ND 
Special to The Observer 
The works of Simone Weil, one of the 20th century's foremost thinkers and writ­ers, will be examined April 19-22 when Notre Dame 
hosts  the  21st  annual  
American  Weil  Society  
Colloquy.  

This year's conference will explore how Weil's readings of ancient Platonism and Christianity make her a major figure in the history of Christian Platonism and give that tradition contemporary relevance. Louis Dupre pro­fessor emeritus of philoso­phy at Yale University, will deliver the keynote address at 7:30 p.m. April 19 in the McKenna Hall Auditorium. Dupre is the author of numerous books including "Religions Mystery and Rational Reflection: Excursions in the Phenomenology and Philosophy of Religion." He will be introduced bv Father Theodore Hesburgh, Notre 

Dame's president emeritus. 
Other major addresses will be delivered by David Tracy, University of Chicago; Emmanuel Gabellieri, L'Universite Catholique de Lyon; and Michael Narcy, director of research of the Centre National de Recherche Scientifique, Paris. 
The conference is being organized by Elizabeth Jane Doering, adjunct assistant professor in the Notre Dame College of Arts and Letters, and Eric Springstcd, presi­dent and co-founder of the American Weil Society and Chaplain Lecturer in Philosophy at Princeton Theological Seminary. 
Notre Dame students will give a poetry reading from Stephanie Strickland's "The Red Virgin: A Poem of Simone Weil" at 9 p.m April 
2. Strickland was the 1997 winner of the Ernest Sandeen Prize in Poetry from Notre Dame, and the 1993 Brittingham Prize in Poetry. 
On the evening of April 20, after the address by Tracy, the Schola Musicorum of Notre Dame's music depart­ment will sing Gregorian chants from original medieval manuscripts. 
The conference is support­ed by Florence Gould Foundation, the Henkels Lecture Series , Tho Institute of Scholarship in the Liberal Arts, The Notre Dame Graduate School, Core Course, International Studies Program, Government Dept. and Gender Studies. Simone Weil, a noted philosopher, educator, sociologist, activist, writer and mysl.ic, was born in 1909 and edu­cated in Paris, where she was only the third woman admitted into the Ecole Normale Superieure. She frequently spoke out against social oppression and cam­paigned tirelessly for human dignity. Although she died at age 34, Weil's written works are now being pub­lished by Gallimard Press. 
Former Clinton aide to give lecture 
Special to The Observer 
Anthony Lake, national security adviser to former President Clinton, will give the Joan B. Kroc Institute's 2001 Hesburgh Lectures on Ethics and Public Policy Tuesday at 
4:15 p.m. and Wednesday at 
12:30 p.m., both in the audito­rium of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
On Tuesday Lake will speak on "Balances of Power, Imbalances of Weakness: Globalization and U.S. Foreign Policy," and on April 11 he will speak on "Peacekeeping: Defining Success." 
Lake is the Distinguished Professor in the Practice of Diplomacy at Georgetown University's Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service and chairman of Intellibridge Corporation. Born in 1939 in New York City, he was gradu­ated from Harvard, studied economics at Cambridge University in England and received a doctoral degree from the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs at Princeton. He joined the State Department in 1962, eventual­ly serving as an aide to President Nixon's secretary of state, Henry Kissinger. He resigned from Kissinger's staff in 1970 to protest the Nixon administration's expansion of the Vietnam War into Cambodia but returned to the State Department in 1977 dur­ing the Carter administration. 

In 1981, when Ronald Reagan became president, Lake left the State Department ag&in to teach at Amherst College and later at Mount Holyoke College. During the 1992 presidential campaign, he was a foreign policy advis­er to candidate Bill Clinton, with whom he had worked in George McGovern's 1972 presidential campaign. He served as national security adviser to President Clinton from 1993 to 1996. He was nominated by Clinton to become the director of the Central Intelligence Agency, but withdrew from considera­tion in 1997 during a heated confirmation battle in the Senate. 
Lake helped found the influ­ential journal, "Foreign Affairs," and is the author of several books, including "The 'Tar Baby' Option: American Policy Toward Southern Rhodesia," "Third World Radical Regimes: U.S. Policy Under Carter and Reagan," "Somoza Falling: A Case Study of Washington at Work," and "Six Nightmares: Real Threats in a Dangerous World and How America Can Meet Them." 
Anthony F. Ear: 
Chairman and Chief Executive 
Electricity: Powering·Linking our World .· · ~ 

Friday, April 6 -·· · 12:50 t 
Wednesday, April 4, 2001

page 4 The Observer . NEWS 
GSU 
continued from page 1 
1ixprnssed concern over grad­uate students finding work after completing their studies. They plan to network with previous grad students who are now employed, offer workshops emphasizing cor­porate etiquette and work with the Career Center to establish programs geared specifically toward graduate students. 
"I felt like some of the issues nnedcd to be addressed," said Deshpande, explaining her decision to run for vice presi­dent. "Instead of being on the outside, f wanted to be a part of the team." 
"It is my desire to serve the graduate student community," said Burgos. "This is an excel­lent opportunity to form a channel of communication botwonn faculty and stu­dents." 
While Burgos and Deshpande outlined their agenda, they also expressed a desire to receive advice from their fellow students and the University departments. 
"We would really like to know how the committee members and students feel," Deshpande said. "We would like to get feedback from the students." 
"We 're really thrilled to be here," Burgos said. "We are new ,?ere and willing to learn. 
GSU president Burgos is a native of Mexico City and attended the University of LaSalle. This is her third year at Notre Dame working toward a Ph.D. in chemical engineering. 
Deshpande, the vice presi­dent, is from India and gradu­ated from UDCT in Bombay. She has been at Notre Dame for a year and a half and is also working on a Ph.D. in chemical engineering. 

Minority university enrollment rising 
Associated Press 
BEHKELEY, Calif. 

Black and Hispanic admis­sions to the University of California continued to rise in the first year of a program guar­anteeing slots to top high school g-raduatns. 
Figures released Tuesday for the Fall 2001 freshman class show steady increases in black and Ilispanic nnrollment for the fourth year in a row. Minority enrollment has now nearly rnbounded from sharp drops fol­lowing the end of affirmative action in California. 
Admissions of "underrepre­sented" minorities -blacks, l lispanics and American Indians -for the fall semester are up by about 17 percent, from 7,336 last year to 8,580. 
Underrepresented minorities are those whose numbers in college lag behind the general popula­tion. 
Those minorities make up 18.6 percent of in-state freshman admissions, compared to 18.8 percent in 1997, the last year race and gender were taken into account. 
The figures show another trend as well: Fewer blacks and Hispanics are enrolling at the top campuses of Berkeley and UCI.A but instead are attending lesser-known campuses. 
Berkeley, UC's flagship cam­pus, admitted 293 black stu­dents, a 43 percent drop from the 1997 total of 515. UC­Riverside, meanwhile, admitted 567 blacks this fall, an 89 per­cent increase over the 1997 total of 300. 


TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
The Students' l't choice in Off-Campus Housing 

DON,T WAIT APPLY TODAY!!!! 
P: 272-8124 
Passion (Palm) Sunday April 8, 2001 

We will celebrate with one Campus-Wide Mass at 1:30 PM 
Church of Our Lady of Loretto 
Bring your donations for St. Margaret's llouse 
NO MASSES WILL BE CELEBRATED IN THE RESIDENCE HALLS 
Office of Campus Ministry 



SaintM$sColleg~ 
NOTRE DAME · INDIANA 







Program offers blacks mortgages 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
A program to make 1 mil­lion black families homeown­ers by 2005 was announced Tuesday by a black lawmak­ers' group, mortgage-market giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, major banks, mortgage companies and community groups. 
New mortgages, many with special terms for low-income borrowers and those with bad credit records, could total $50 billion under the program. 
"For far too long, minority communities have been left out of the homeownership process," Rep. Eddie Bernice Johnson, D-Texas, chair­woman of the Congressional Black Caucus, said at a news conference. "America is only as stroug as its commu11ities, and communities are only as strong as the families that live within. Homeownership is part of the foundation of a stable family." 
Mel Martinez, secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, said the new program "means 1 million more African-American families who can live their American dream." 
The program, called "With Ownership, Wealth," or WOW, will begin next month in 20 states, the District of Columbia and the U.S. Virgin Islands. To reach prospective home buyers, there will be homeownership fairs and seminars, radio and newspa­per ad campaigns and indi­vidual credit counseling. 

Homeownership among minorities grew four times faster than for whites in the 1990s, yet only 46. 7 percent of black families own their homes, compared with 73 percent of white families and 67 percent for the country overall, according to HUD. 
The banks and other lenders will offer a variety of mortgages with special terms. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have agreed to buy them and several mort­gage insurance companies will insure them. 
The special terms will include down payments of as little as $1,000, or 2 percent of a home's value; mortgages at interest rates below the usual rates for borrowers with weak credit histories; and a one-time reduction in interest rates for borrowers who make their mortgage payments on time for 24 straight months. Money for down payments may come from grants or from unse­cured loans from community groups, government agencies or employer-assisted housing programs. 
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are government-spon­sored but publicly traded companies that buy mort­gages from original lenders such as banks and package them into securities for resale to investors. They are not committing new monPy to the WOW plan, but will purchase mortgages for black families as part of their existing programs !'or low­and moderate-income bor­rowers. 
Freddie Mac is contributing $300,000 for the outreach programs and other expens­es of the WOW program. according to spokesman Douglas Robinson. A Fannie Mae spokeswoman declined to give a figure for that com­pany's contribution. 
The 20 states in which the outreach programs will be available are Alabama, California, Florida, Georgia, Indiana, Illinois, Louisiana, Maryland, Michigan, Mississippi, Missouri, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas and Virginia. Hesidents of other states can call a toll-free number to find out if they arc eligible for the new mortgages. 



ATION 
Wednesday, April 4, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Animal testing banned: The European Parliament voted Tuesday to ban sales of all new cosmetic products tested on animals. including makeup, shampoos and shower gels. Pending approval from the 15 European Union member nations, the legisla­tion would immediately prohibit cosmetics for which alternative testing exists. By January 2005, the han also would apply to all new cos­metics using animal-tested ingredients, even if alternative tests have not been developed. 
Snow delays recovery of US jets: 
Wreckage of two U.S. F-15 fighter jets will have to remain on the snowy Scottish moun­tainside where the planes crashed last week until weather conditions improve, officials said Tuesday. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Court throws out gun lawsuit: 
Louisiana's Supreme Court on Tuesday threw out New Orleans' lawsuit aimed at forcing gun manufacturers to pay the costs of gun violence. In a 5-2 decision, the court upheld a state law passed to retroactively block the lawsuit and said the city had no right to sue anyway. New Orleans was the lirst local gov­ermnent in the nation to accuse gun makers of selling unsafe products and creating a pub­lic nuisance. 
26 stowaways found in Calif.: 
Twenty-six Chinese stowaways apparently spent more than three weeks at sea huddled inside two cramped cargo containers before they were discovered. authorities said Tuesday. The immigrants were taken to a hospital Monday night for medical evaluation before being transferred to a federal deten­tion center, said Capt. Mike tiarcia of the Long Beach Fire Department. 
INDIANA News BRIEFS 
Teen charged in fatal shooting: The lawyer of a teen-ager formally charged Monday with murder in the death of a student outside a Gary high school said the shooting was a case of self-defense. Alvarez said Donald Ray Burt Jr., 17, had been bullied over a period of time. Alvarez said he had just been hired and didn't want to get into specifics. Burt, who is from Gary, pleaded innocent in the death of 16-year-old Neal Boyd outside Lew Wallace High School before school Friday. Burt faces up to 65 years in prison. 
Market Watch April 3 

Dow 
9,485.71 -292.22 

Jones 

Composite Same: Volume: 236 NIA 
AMEX: NASDAQ:NYSE:··'·h. S&P 500: 

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY 0/4.CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -8.71 -1.3113.75 NASDAQ 100 INDX (QQQ) -7.33 -2.74 34.66 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -13.51 -2.07 13.25 AR IBA 1NC (ARBA) -31.69 -2.06 4.44 INTEL CORP (INTC) -3.09 -0.80 25.00 
GAZA STRIP 


As..ociaceJ Press 
GAZA CITY 
Israeli helicopters fired dozens of rockets at bases of Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat's security services Tuesday, hours after a Palestinian mortar attack critically injured a 10­month-old Israeli baby and wounded his mother. 
Seventy-seven Palestinians, including Palestinian policemen, were injured, said Tayeb Abdel Rahim, a senior aide to Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat. He said 70 rockets were fired at five areas of Gaza. 
In a seaside compound of Force 17, a Palestinian security service, rockets ripped through the metal roof of a large garage, burning a car. The wall of an empty, two-story arsenal adjacent to Arafat's home was pierced by a missile. It was not clear whether Arafat's home was dam­aged. 
Amid the escalation, the United States was trying to arrange a three-way meeting with Israeli and Palestinian officials to lower ten­sions. Raanan Gissin, a spokesman for Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, said the time and place have not yet been set, but that Israelis and Palestinians have agreed in principle to attend. 

Palestinian officials said all issues should be discussed, while Israel said it would only address security matters. Sharon has said he would not negotiate under fire. 
U.S. participation in such a meeting would indicate that the Bush administration is gradu­ally being drawn into the Israeli-Palestinian con­flict, despite its initial reluctance to get involved. 
Abdel Rahim reiterated Palestinian claims that Sharon was implement­ing a 100-day plan of a gradual escalation, including rocket Palestinian militants. 
Sharon's aides have denied the existence of such a plan. 
Tuesday's rocket attack came just a few hours after Palestinians fired three mortar shells into the Jewish settlement of Atzmona in the Gaza Strip. One shell exploded near Leah Yered and her 10-month-old son, Ariel, spraying them with shrapnel, settler Zvulun Kalfa told Israel TV. 
JAPAN 

Earthquake shakes island; six injured 
Associated Press 
TOKOYO 
An earthquake hit parts of central Japan late Tuesday, injuring six peo­ple, just hours after a smaller quake struck off the southwest coast of the country. There were no immediate reports of serious damage from either temblor. 
The more powerful quake, with a magnitude of 5. L was centered in Shizuoka prefecture (state), about 95 miles west of Tokyo, the Meteorological Agency said. The quake shattered windows and caused some water pipes to burst, but there was no danger of tsunami, or under­sea waves triggered by volcanic activi­ty or earthquakes. 

Those injured included a 72-year­old woman who fractured her hand after being jolted out of bed and a 52­year-old woman who was pinned under a chest that fell over, said local police spokesman Moriyuki Oishi. 
Train lines and highways in the sur­rounding prefecture {state) were tern­porarily closed to inspect for damage, but nuclear power plants continued operating normally, said Hideaki Mitsui, an official at Chubu Electric Power Co. 
Earlier, a 4.9-magnitude earthquake shook Hiroshima and neighboring areas. That tremor was strong enough to shake houses and topple vases. 
The agency placed the epicenter of the first quake 42 miles under the sea, 12 miles off the coast of Yamaguchi prefecture (state) in southwestern Japan. 
---------------------------------------~ 


page 6 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, April 4, 2001 
Bush copes with unexpected hurdles 
. President faces challenge with standoff in China 
Associa red Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Bush raised the diplomatic stakes Tuesday in warning that the spy-plane standoff with China could sour relations 
between the two countries. 
Hut even as Bush insisted it was time for the crew and 

plane to be Bush returned, reflecting U.S. frustration over Ow three-day stalemate, the administration tried to keep the incident from escalating out of control. 
The crisis is just the latest leadership hurdle to unexpect• odly confront Bush, who already was trying to cope with a stock market selloff, new flare-ups in the Middle East and problems with Hussia and European allies. 
/\!though Rush prefers stick­ing to carefully prepared scripts, the challenges are forcing him and his advisers to improvise policy more and more in a presi­dency just 11 weeks old. 
The Navy EP-3E surveillance plane and its 24 American crew members remained on China's Hainan island three days after it made an emergency landing there after colliding with a Chinese fighter jet. 
And China, which wants a U.S. apology, was showing no public signs of budging. 
"We have allowed the Chinese government time to do the right thing. Hut now it is time for our servicemen and women to return home, and it is time for the Chines? government to return our plane," Bush said. late Tuesday afternoon in the Rose Garden. 
He suggested "our hopes for a fruitful and productive rnlation­ship between our two countries" could lie in the balance. 
That was a marked change of tone frum remarks earlier in the day by Secretary of State Colin Powell, who said in Key West, t:la., after U.S. diplomats began a meeting with the detained crew members, "I hope that is the beginning of an end to this incident. ... l hope this starts us on a road to a full and complete resolution of this matter." 
Administration officials said Hush decided to raise the issue of U.S.-Chinesc relations after three days of patient, muted diplomacy failed to result in the release of the crew. Rut his national security advisers are mindful that he must walk a fine line. 
For instance, he did not set a deadline, not wanting to box China into a corner, aides said. 
Officials said various options were being considered if China does not act quickly. Those options, which have yet to go to Bush's desk, range from cancel­ing the president's planned trip to Beijing next October all the way to withdrawing the U.S. ambassador. 
Economic sanctions are also possible, hut not likely, officials suggested. The conflict could also increase pressure on Bush to sell Taiwan more sophisticat­ed weaponry when he makes a decision on that later this month. 
It's been hard for Bush lately to keep his focus on rallying congressional support for his domestic agenda, including its 
signature $1.6 trillion tax cut. 
Since his inauguration Jan. 20, he has ordered airstrikes against Iraq, seen the nation's intelligence community rocked by a Russian spy scandal and watched European allies balk at bis proposals to build a national missile defense shield and to withdraw from an international treaty on global warming. 
He's also witnessed a collapse of the peace process in the Middle East. Violence flared in the region again on Tuesday. 
Domestically, U.S. stock mar­kets have plummeted -includ­ing a sharp selloff on Tuesday ­and the once-robust American economy has slowed to a crawl or a standstill. 
On Capitol Hill, vanquished GOP presidential rival Sen. John McCain, H-Ariz., continues to vex Bush, rising as an indepen­dent force in negotiating with Democrats to win support for a campaign-finance overhaul. 
The circumstances make it hard for Bush to remain "on message" in pushing his eco­nomic program and could con­tribute to slippage in his public approval ratings, suggested Princeton political science pro­fessor Fred Greenstein. 
Still, Greenstein said, "all these things are problems for a fledgling president that they can turn around." 
Ivo Daalder, a foreign policy analyst at the Brookings Institution, said the Chinese confrontation could easily turn into a "firestorm on Capitol Hill" if Beijing continues to hold the crew and the aircraft. 
But to this point, the Bush White House "has made the minimum necessary statement: that this is an accident and that the crew and plane must be released. They've left it in China's court right now. So far, so good." 

Survey: Wo01en earn less than 01en 
Harkin released the draft
. Government 
study to mark Equal Payjobs pay women Day, the theoretical point in lower salaries the year when women's pay 
catches up to men's salaries frum the year before.
WASHINGTON "Anybody in this day andThe average woman work­age who doesn't believe that
ing on a U.S. government there is a wage gap based
contract job is paid 72 cents on occupational segregation
for every dollar a man 
has his or her head stuck in 
earns, a disputed Labor 
the sand," Harkin said.

Department survey of feder­
The senator asked the
al contractors found. 
Labor Department almost
The woman gets 82 cents 
two years ago to examine
if she has the same position 
federal contractors' wageand 89 cents if she has data and pay gaps. The
equal tenure and experience s t u d yat the same 
w a s 
company, 
complet­
the study "Anybody in this day and 
ed in
reported. age who doesn't believe .JanuaryThe draft 
that there is a wage gap before
study was 
President 
... has his or her head in
released 
B u s h 
Tuesday by the sand." 
t o o k 
Sen. Tom 
office,
Harkin, !J­
a n d
Tom Harkin

Iowa, and 
IIarkin 
quickly got senator, D-lowa 
h a s 
tangled in politics. The Labor Department said the report, commissioned by Harkin, has not been issued officially because of accura­cy questions that arose dur­ing the Clinton administra­tion. 
"The methodology and the data that was used in the study was severely flawed," said Stuart Roy, spokesman for Labor Secretary Elaine Chao. Another study is being prepared, he said. 
"I am concerned that fruit­ful conversations about the status of women in the workplace will be misguided by this flawed study," Chao said in a statement. 
pressed 
unsuc­cessfully for its official release. 
'The fact is, this adminis­tration does not want to release the report because it damages their case," Harkin said. 
The pay gap is caused by discrimination and because women get steered into lower-paying occupations. the study said. About half of working women are in occu­pations that are at least 70 percent female and that typ­ically pay lower wages, it said. 
"I urge the new adminis­tration to release this report," Harkin said. 
0 U.S. Dcpor1men1 of Tran>po<101ion  Killed by a drunk driver on September 29, 1992 on Roundtree Lane in Melville, New York.get 1!he 118JS friends don't lat friends drive drunk  ,II Think different~ On DisplayNOW! PowerBook G4 The world's first portable supercomputer. • 111 thick • 5.3 pounds • Slot loading DVD-ROM • 5-hour battery life • 15.2" mega-wide screen • Titanium case • ~00 or 50~MHz G4 Processor with Velocity Engine • iMov1e & 1Tunes for digital movies and music ,..,,·~ Solutions Center Room 112 Computing Center, 219-631-7477 http://www.nd.edu/~solution't~) Email: Solution@nd.edu 2000 Apple Compu~r, ~c.All rights reserve~. Apple, the Apple logo, Mac, and PowerBook are trademarks of Apple Computer Inc registered81n e . .and other countries. Apple Store and "Think different" are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. ' ·'  


Wednesday, April 4, 2001 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
RUSSIA 
State ousts independent network 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 

Outraged journalists at Russia's only independent nationwide television network vowed to resist a takeover by state-run gas giant Gazprom, which purged NTV's leadership Tuesday in a dramatic salvo in the fight for the influential sta­tion. 
Gazprom's move to replace NTV's board of directors with loyalists and install new editor­ial bosses devastated the floun­dering campaign by the debt­laden station -seen as a flag­ship of Russia's hard-won media freedom -to stay out of government hands. 
Its outspoken journalists took little comfort in pledges by their new director, a controver­sial American investment banker, not Lo meddle in edito­rial policy. 
"NTV will survive, whether [its journalists] want to work with us or not," Boris Jordan, who is of Russian descent, told a news conference. Then he added: "There should be no illusions" about the financial side. "I have a fiduciary responsibility before my share­holders to make the company profitable." 
The case of NTV has come to be seen as a test of President Vladimir Putin's commitment to media freedom. The journal­ists' anger was on display Tuesday on the network in an emotional live talk show that lasted more than two hours, with politicians, NTV staffers, lawyers, other top journalists and even a priest weighing in. 
"I am convinced that preserv­ing an independent, open, seri­ous channel such as NTV is a public task and our public responsibility," said former 
~ 
American Heart .a Associatione~ 

Fighting Heart Disease and Stroke 
It's the giftof alifetime. 
Making abequest to the American Heart Association says something special about you. It's a gift ofhealth for future generations -an unselfish act ofcaring. 
Your gift will fund research and educational prograiru; to fight heart attack, stroke, high blood pressure and othercardiovascular diseases. And bring othen; the joy and freedom ofgood health. 
To learn more about how you 
can leave alegacy forthefuture, 
ca.111-800-AHA-USAI. 
Doittoday. 
This space provided as a public service. IQ1S92, 1997, American Heart Association 
Soviet President Mikhail him from Spain on fraud Gorbachev, who was among the charges. guests. "We must decisively say Gazprom's media subsidiary that this should not happen," holds 46 percent of the shares he said of Tuesday's events. in NTV and claims to be the 
Several lawmakers said they controlling shareholder would raise the issue in parlia­because another 19 percent of ment, some participants the shares are frozen in a court appealed to Putin to intervene dispute over debts. to save NTV, while others On Tuesday, Gazprom-Media called for protests and demons­called a shareholders' meeting trations. The tough question at which a new board was facing every NTV employee, appointed. NTV called the however, was whether or not to move illegal, based on a flurry serve their new masters and of legal proceedings in recent 
show  up  for  weeks.  
w  o  r  k  Gazprom­ 
Wednesday morning. About 50 people gath­ "NIV will survive whether fits journalists] want to work with us  Media chief Alfred Kokh was appoint­ed new  
ered outside NTV's studios  or not.  chairman of N T V ' s  
in  northern  board,  
Moscow early  Boris Jordan  replacing  
Wednesday in  new N1V director  Gusinsky.  

a show of sup­port, and the station, which usually goes off the air in the early morning hours. decided to continue broadcasting through the night. 
"The employees of NTV will await the representatives of Gazprom, but do not intend to submit to them," said a state­ment issued by the station early Wednesday. 
NTV's reporters claim the Kremlin wants to end the kind of journalism they have cham­pioned since its founding in 1993: critical coverage of the wars in Chechnya, efforts to expose corruption in high places, dramatic footage of the decline of housing, heating, and health in Russia. 
"We do not doubt that Vladimir Putin, as in the past, knows about what is happening and' bears responsibility for the consequences," a statement by leading NTV journalists said Tuesday. 
The struggle -for NTV started last year from the financial woes of its parent company Media-Mo&t and its founder Vladimir Gusinsky, who is fighting attempts to extradite 
Jordan was 
named the network's new general direc­tor, replacing Yevgeny Kiselyov. 
Both Kokh and Jordan were involved in disputed privatiza­tion deals of state assets in the 1990s, and the network's senior journalists have said they would not work for either man. 
Vladimir Kulistikov, a former NTV journalist who abandoned the network for state-run media last fall, was named the new chief editor. 
Top NTV journalists, produc­ers and other staff announced they would not recognize the changes. Thousands of people attended a Moscow rally Saturday to support them, and further protests could not be ruled out. 
Tuesday's meeting was the latest episode in a long-running feud between Media-Most and Gazprom. At stake is also the fate of a host of publications, radio shows and TV programs that are part of Gusinsky's Media-Most empire, along with some of the country's boldest journalists. 
[.lfflffllQTravel...., 
AMERICA'S LEADER IN STUDENT TRAVEL 
1·800·2C0UNCIL 
OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK 
WWW.COUNCILTRAVEL.COM 

CONGO 
Zilllbabwe soldiers lllake colllplete exit 
Associated Press 
KINSHASA 
Zimbabwe shipped the first 200 of its soldiers home from Congo Tuesday after 2 1/2 years here, call­ing it proof of its commit­ment to ending the six­nation war in the heart of Africa. 
Disengagement by the warring sides gained fur­ther momentum late Tuesday with Uganda Foreign Minister Eriya Kategaya's announcement -in what for him was the enemy capital, Kinshasa ­that Uganda was ready to pull all its troops out. 
"We have reached our goal. Our soldiers will all go 
back,"  Eriya  Kategaya,  
whose  country's  forces  
aided  Congo's  rebels  

against the Congo govern­ment, declared after meet­ing with Congo President Joseph Kabila. 
Uganda and Rwanda sent thousands of troops into Congo during and after 1998 to support rebels fighting to oust Joseph Kabila's father, Laurent. 
Uganda and Rwanda accused Laurent Kabila of sheltering armed move­ments that were threaten­ing the security of neighbor­ing countries. 
Zimbabwe, Angola and Namibia joined the fight on Congo's side, their loyalty secured by fortunes in gov­ernment-ceded Congo min­ing contracts. 
Fighting since has killed thousands, with 2 million people forced from their homes. Congo today is carved up among the rebel movements and foreign armies, with Congo's gov­ernment controlling only the western 40 percent of 
the 1-million-square-mile 
nation. 
Peace efforts took off after Laurent Kabila was assassi­nated in January, in still­mysterious circumstances, and his son succeeded him. 
The United Nations now is supervising a three-week­old disengagement process, with all but Congolese rebels themselves pulling back as promised from key battle zones. 
Zimbabwe's first complete withdrawal from Congo Tuesday leaves the south­ern African nation with an estimated 10,000-plus sol­diers still in Congo. 
"It's our gesture of our commitment to peace," Gen. Fillip Viper, deputy com­mander of the government­allied forces, said as the 
Zimbabwean soldiers 
stopped in Kinshasa, the Congo capital, on their way home. 
The 200 had been posted at Mbandaka, capital of western Congo's Equateur province. 
They had been the first Zimbabwe units dispatched to help repel rebel advances on Kinshasa in August 1998. 
Viper said the pro-govern­ment alliance would send three battalions back to their home countries in corning weeks, with the first, 600-member battalion going home in days. 
Senegalese forces are expected to arrive Wednesday as the latest addition to a U. N. force building up in Congo. 
Five hundred unarmed 

U.N. monitors are to check compliance with peace agreements, under the pro­tection of a 2,500-strong armed force. 
Position. Available 
The Diocese of"Baton Rouge, La., with over 217,000 Catholics, is seeking a dedicated Catholic to fill the po­sition of" Director of" Christian Formation. The director must develop and oversee programs of" ministry forma­tion/education in theology tor laity, and work closely with parishes in racilitating such formation opportuni­ties. Masters degree in theology/religious studies/or re­ligious education is required; experience in ministry as well. Salary and benefits commensurate with experience and credentials. For prompt consideration, please mail or £ax a resume with education, work, and salary histo­ries _by April 14 to: 
Rev. John Carville, S.T.D., M.Ed. Moderator or the Curia P. 0. Box 2028 Baton Rouge, LA 70821-2028 FAX: 225-336-8789 E-mail: chancery@diobr.org For more inrormation visit: www.diobr.org 

Wednesday, April 4, 200 I

page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
Associated Press 
WASIIINCTON 

Frustrated European offi­cials expressed skepticism Tuesday lhat the Bush administration would pro­pose anything new on global warming but said other industrial countries planned lo pursue a treaty on climate change. 
"Wo ar11 very much pre­pan\d to go on ... without the United Statns. We cannot allow one country to kill this," said Kjell Larsson, Sweden's environment minis­ter. 
Larsson and Margot Wallstroem, Lim EU's 
Europe pushes U.S. .tr}i~¥' • ii; ~;: :,~1,~; :~OHi.i s1..B.~
on enviroillllent issues 


:·:_·:.:··:::::::;::::-•:::;.::.::::::::~·::·::??E·•:i:'.#?t\·· States and to other industri­.. ::E·a·· -:5:.:
~ 

. . . 
alized nations because it exempts 80 percent of the 

....-., ::·:···~····•:::;:••::;:;;;;::Iiilr.;;;i•••••::·world from compliance." ;,: ....·.·-~:::·:·:•:.-;,;,:.: ...;-·-::/::·:·.::·::· 
Larsson and Wallstroem emphasized the U.S. must bear responsibility for a quarter of the world's green­house gas emissions. 
The Europeans met earlier 

:J\:·.·_•\.•..• }i il:.:i:.\_(.:;_.\·t_:
::t.\.\.(.:;.,::_;;.. ·--;:-::-~:j-.f =+ :::-::~:::--~::::::~:::::+:::;;;::\:::::::::•::/:::::?
...1;:_·;._i~_:b_:·_::__ 
• ==\:{-.::::··· :::::... --.-.-··-.-.--:\tif:i)){i~tt::~;:.:·:·· .•.• 
with U.S. environmental groups. 
No industrial country has yet ratified the Kyoto treaty. An effort last November at The Hague, Netherlands, to come up with a plan for 

·.. .:.:..;_'.itt~~'S5ia1·~al'J·~: ·•1n \la~:~imissi0ms 0ffiee 
implementing the accord col­lapsed in a disagreement between the United States a n d Germany 


w i t h President Bush's administration officials and several Democratic senators. 
Instead, Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Christie Whitman told the Europeans that a treaty negotiated in Kyoto, Japan. in 1997 is unfair to the United States. She pledged U.S. cooperation in seeking technologies and incentives to address climate change. 
"We were hoping to be able to persuade the United States to come back into the Kyoto protocol," Wallstroem said. "There is a lot of frustration. ... Without going to threats, I would say this would affect international cooperation." 
Whitman said the Bush Cabinet is reviewing U.S. policies to determine how to approach concentrations of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. 
"I emphasized to members of the European community that I continue to be as opti­mistic as the president that, working constructively with our friends and allies through international processes, we can develop technologies, market-based incentives and other innova­tive approaches to global cli­mate change," Whitman said. 
Asked whether the EU is 

open to Bush taking a new 
tack on the issue of global 
warming, Larsson said that, 
after a decade of work on the 
problem. "I don't think there 
will be a fresh approach" 
from the United States. 
Bush last month sparked an international outcry by reversing a campaign promise to treat carbon diox­ide from power plants as a pollutant and source of glob­al warming. He said the Kyoto accord's mandatory cuts on carbon dioxide emis­sions and short timetable are no longer acceptable to the United States. 
The administration said it 

instead will seek an alterna­
tive that would include poor­
er. underdeveloped countries 
now exempt from treaty 
commitments. Whitman reit­
erated that the Kyoto accord 
"is unfair to the United over trad­
"We were hoping to be

environment ing pollu­commission-able to persuade the tion cred­er. had 
United States to come its. 

CO!l11l to 
The EU
back into the 

Washington delegationwith high Kyoto protocol. " also plans expectations to travel to 
for their C h in a ,
Margot Wallstroem 

meetings Russia,
EU's environment commissioner

Tuesday 

Iran and 
Japan to 
seek sup­port for keeping the treaty alive when talks resume in July in Bonn, Germany. 
The Kyoto protocol calls for countries to cut heat-trap­ping emissions by an average 
5.2 percent below 1990 lev­els by 2012. However, U.S. carbon dioxide emissions have continued to grow since the treaty was signed and are now nearly 15 percent above what they were in 1990. 
Many scientists believe such emissions are causing the Earth to warm signifi­cantly; Whitman has said she agrees. 
The United Nations plans to host an informal meeting of 40 to 50 environmental ministers in New York on April 21 to pre pare for the Bonn talks. 


Wednesday, April 4, 2001 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 

110 ONEC:I-PNE$ C40SE$ 
The Air Force is looking for students planning to graduate in May of 2002. This includes Graduate Students! Besides great benefits, a guaranteed job for four years, and the prestige of being an Officer in the US Air Force --you will also be eligible for a $15,000 scholarship, $480 for textbooks and supplies, and a $200 monthly stipend! 
If you ever thought about being a real leader ­

Are you wondering what is in store for you after graduation? How does a guaranteed job paying over $33,000 for 
the first two years sound? What if that job came with guaranteed arinual pay raises and promotions that will raise your salary to over $42,000 after two years and over $53,000 after four years? This job would also come with a tax break on portions of your salary, travel, eligibilitv to defer your student loans for up to three years. 
Contact Captain Martin Klubeck at afrotc.1 @ncl.edu or call 1-4676 



r------------------------------------------.. page 10 The Obseroer . NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, April 4, 200 I 

Welfare cases rise in 
Study: Segregation still a probleID 
Martinez said Tuesday night. white, 8 percent Hispanic, 7 
As.sociatcd Press 

nearly a dozen states
Recently released Census percent black and 4 percent 
2000 data showed that Asian. The typical black lived
WASHINGTON 
Hispanic, black and Asian in a neighborhood that was 

Associated Press 
Segregation persisted in big 
population growth far out­51 percent black, 33 percent
cities over the past decade 
paced that of whites over the white, 12 percent Hispanic 

WASHINGTON
amid the nation's growing 
1990s. and 3 percent 

After six years of remark­
racial and ethnic diversity, 
T h e Asian. 

able decline, the number of
said a report that provoked 
Hispanic There was a
"The bottom line ofthe 

Americans on welfare has
calls for stronger enforce­
popula­10 percent 

begun to rise in about a
ment of laws against housing last decade is that there
tion drew decrease 

dozen states and has
discrimination. 
virtually has been very little betwefm 1990 

stopped falling in most oth­
Distinct living patterns con­
even with change in the underlying and 2000 in 
ers.
tinued lo hold sway in large 
n o n -black-white 

Caseloads are still drop­
urban centers where most of levels ofsegregation."
Hispanic segregation in 

ping in nearly a dozen
America's blacks. Hispanics 
blacks as metro areas 

states, and the national total
and Asians are located, said 
t h e John Logan where blacks 

is still creeping down, but
the report released Tuesday 
nation's professor, made up no 

for most of the country, it
by the Civil Rights Project at 
largest 
more than 3 

appears that the days of
Harvard University. State University of New York
minority 
percent of the 

ever-shrinking welfare rolls
With forecasts suggesting at Albany
group.
even greater diversity in Lhe 
T h e
future. advocacy groups 
Census
urged federal and local gov­
Bureau considers "Hispanic"
ernments to step up enforce­
an ethnicity, not a race: 
ment of fair-housing regula­
therefore, Hispanics can be
tions and upgrade education 
of any race.
in minority neighborhoods. 
Data from the once-a­
Blacks and whites were 
decade head count also 
most likely to be segregated 
showed more minorities mov­
in the Detroit metropolitan 
ing from cities and into sub­
area, the study said, while 
urbs. Manv of those suburbs
whites, Hispanics and Asians 
were becoming just as racial­

were most likely to live sepa­
ly divided as urban areas,

rately in New York. 
said State
It is 
University of
''troubling 
New York at
"The white public tends 

at a time 
Albany profes­

of massive to think that the problem sor 
John

d e m o ­
has been solved. There Logan, who

graphic 
wrote the
has never been more

change, 
report.

when the than a very small 
Logan noted

need for 
enforcement effort." that among

Americans 
the country's

to commu­
top 50 metro­

nicate Gary Orfield 
politan areas, 

a c r o s s professor, 
many of the

racial and 
Harvard least segre­

ethnic 
gated ones for

lines is 
blacks were in 

greater 
the South.

than ever before, that we are 
Many blacks had moved from

less likely than ever to live in 
that region early last century

diverse neighborhoods," said 
to escape racial discrimina­

Haul Yzaguirre. president of 
tion.

the National Council of La 
"The bottom line of the last

Haza, a Latino advocacy 
decade is that there has been

organization. 
very little change in underly­
The Bush administration is 
ing levels of segregation,"

committed to stepping up 
Logan said.

enforcement of fair housing 
Among other findings in

laws, a spokesman for 
metropolitan areas: The typi­

Housing and Urban 
cal white lived in a neighbor­

Development Secretary Mel 
hood that was 80 percent 

ceding three months and a 3 
percent decline during the 
same months in 1999.
WEEKEND 

The evidence of slowdown 
RACQUETBALL 
is even clearer when exam­
ined by state. 
Between June and 
September of 2000. 11 states 
saw their welfare rolls 
increase by more than 3 per­
cent, while 10 saw drops of 
more than 3 percent. 
By contrast. during the 
preceding three months, 
from March to June, only 
five states saw their case­
loads increase by 3 percent, 
while 29 saw drops that 
large. Similarly, in 1999, just 
four states saw their case­
1oads rise by 3 percent 
between June and 
September, while 34 saw 
them drop by that much. 
Some states continue to see their caseloads drop, including New York and California. where one in three of the nation's recipi­ents live. As long as case­loads in big states fall, the national number is likely to continue dropping. 
Since September, the econ­omy has showed signs of weakness, and state officials fear that a shortage of jobs couJd drive more people to government aid. 
Even in a strong economy, welfare experts have known that the numbers would eventually have to level off. 
"These caseloads can't keep dropping forever," said Wendell Primus, a welfare expert at the left-leaning Center for Budget and Policy Priorities, who examined food stamp caseloads and found a similar trend. 
During the last six months of 2000, 13 states showed food-stamp cases increase by more than 3 percent, ver­sus just four states in the last six months of 1999, Primus said. And nationally, food-stamp caseloads increased slightly between June and December after considerable drops. 
In case assistance, some of the leveling off is expected. Some remaining cases are "child-only," where a poor child qualifies for aid but his or her guardian does not and therefore is not subject to work rules. 
TOURNAMENT 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY APRIL 6 & APRIL 7 JOYCE C_ENTER 
Men's & Women's Divisions Bring Your O"\Vll Racquet Balls Will be Provided 
Register in Advance at 7-d,.--o/,,...,;c-:.,...--:.. 
Deadline: Thursday, April 5 $3.00 Fee 

Save $100 
Me AT LI-----•----=-­
t
.L'1. IIYflt:#1 lt:#UI j jjjl!:J 
Sign up before Aprfi 13 and get a $100 discount on our MCAT Hyper/earning Course 
/
.72 Class hours­
/ . 
Plus 5 full-Jeng th, proctored practice exams
I , 
4,0~0 pages of practice materia/­
30 MCATs worth ofpractice passages 
Proven Resu/ts­
8 point average score increase 
Risk Free-
Try us for a week 
Classes for the Aug. MCAT start T,:--e 
population. 
Over 24 mil­
lion blacks lived in areas where they made up more than 10 per­cent of the population. Black­white segregation levels in those areas declined 3 per­cent, which Logan said was not significant. 
Similar trends also were evident within the Hispanic and Asian populations, though Asians were more likely to live in more diverse communities. 
Advocacy groups placed part of the blame on federal and local governments, call­ing for stronger enforcement of fair housing laws and reg­ulations. 
"The white public tends to believe that the problem has been solved," said Gary Orfield of Harvard. "There has never been more than a very small enforcement effort," he said, and the isola­tion of minority families has always been high. 
Despite Detroit's population loss over the last decade and its tag as "the most segregat­ed city," Mayor Dennis Archer said recent economic improvements have highlight­ed his goal to "make it as attractive as possible so that whoever wants to come and live here can enjoy them­selves, irrespective of color. 
"We celebrate that diversi­ty," Archer said. 

have come to an end. 
"The people who could go to work have gone to work," said Rita Dobrich, a welfare administrator in West Virginia, where caseloads rose by about 8 percent over the last year after plummet­ing 70 percent. 
It's not entirely clear why some states are seeing their caseloads rise, and officials fear the situation may only get worse if the economy weakens. 
Nationally. the welfare rolls peaked in 1994 at near­ly 14.3 million people, most­ly single women and their children. Amid tough new rules and the strongest economy in a generation, they began a dramatic decline, falling further and faster than anyone predict­ed. 
By September 2000, the number of people on welfare had fallen by nearly 60 per­cent to fewer than 5.8 mil­lion people, according to data that the Department of Health and Human Services is preparing to release. 
But the decline -which reached 20 percent in one year -has dramatically slowed. Nationally, the num­ber of recipients fell by less than 1 percent between June and September, the most recent month for which data are available. 
That's compared with a 4 rrercent decline in the pre­
in early June, but this offer (!!_'I! ends April 13! r1lnCefOn
Visit The Observer Online..• 
http: //observer.nd. edu 

Call to sign up today! Review 
-, 

ww'w.·f:'rincetonReview.com 800.2REVIEW 
•'1,-•~...,._µ.tl'-'-A'_.,_,,, 

page 11

Wednesday, April 4, 2001 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
The Notre Dame Law School Natural Law Institute presents 


The Olin 
Distinguished 
Lecture Series 
II 

owto t·---e 




rut 
II 
Upcoming Lectures 
John Gardner April 10 
Germain Grisez April 19 

Timothy Endicott 
Fellow in Law Balliol College. Oxford University 
Thursday,April 5, 2001 
4 p.m. 

Notre Dame Law School Courtroom 
VIEWPOINT 
OTHE page 12 BSERVER Wednesday, April 4, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
PO. Box Q, Norr• Dam,. IN 46556 024 Sourh Dinmg Hall, Nom, D.mc. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN Cmu Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BuslN= MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Roh Woods  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Kerry Smith  

Nl'WS EDITOR: Jason McFarley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Pat McElwee 
Sl'ORTS EDITOR: Noah Ammdter 
SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Myra McGrilf 
P110To EDITOR: Peter Richardson 

ADvERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: l'ahvcl Chin 
Wm ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner 
CoNTROl.l.ER: Kevin Ryan 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 

CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO.........631-7471 
FAx........................................................... 631-6927 
ADVERTISING .. . . .. . .. . . .. . .. .. ..............631-6900/8840 
observ~d@nd.cd u EDITOR IN CHIEF.....................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AsST. ME ..................631-4541 
IlllSINESS OFFICE......................................631-5313 
NEWS....................................................... 631-5323 obscrver.obsnews. l@nd.edu VtEWrOINT ................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoim. l@nd.edu SroRTS... .. .........................................631-4543 observer.spores.l@nd.edu SCENE... .................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SA.JNT MARY'S.. .......................................631-4324 obscrver.smc. l@nd.edt1 PHOTO... .........631-8767 SYSTEMSfWE!I ADMINISTRATORS ................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visir our Web sire at http://observer.11der/11 for daily updat~'S of campus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as wdl as carroons, reviews and breaking news from the Associared Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/mU5ic for minute forecasts weather for up•to•the 

weekly studem reviews 

online features for and rates of prim ads advertise for policies 
special campus cover­

age archives to search for anicles published 
about The Obscn,er after August 1999 
ro meet the editors 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudenrs of the University of Norr, Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Edicorial content, including advertisemcnrs, is not governed by policies of the administration of either instirurion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse adverriscmenrs based on content. 
1be news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of rhe majoriry of the Editor in Chief, Managing Ediror, Assis1ant Managing Ediror and departmem edirors. Commentaries, lerrers and columns present the views of the aurhors and nor necessarily rhose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available co all readers. The free expression of all opinions rhrough lcrters is encouraged. Letters ro rhe Editor must be signed and must include comacr informarion. 
Qrititions rtgardmg Obtrrver pt>licies sht>uld be dimt• (d 10 Editor i11 ChiefMike Com1olly. 

Is the "traditional" family, based on the marriage of a man and a woman, on the way out'? Maybe so. Consider two signs. 
First, cohabitation without benefit of marriage is rapidly becoming the statisti­cal norm. As former Education Secretary William Bennett's Index of Cultural Indicators 2001 records, the number of heterosexual cohabiting couples increased from 
439.000 in 1960 to 
4.24 million in 1998. The number of cohabiting households almost doubled in the 1990s. In 1965, 10 percent of married couples lived together before marriage; in 1998 it was more than 50 percent. 
Cohabitation. incidentally, increases despite evidence, summarized in the Index. that it does not work too well: "Only about 1/6 of cohabiting couples endure for three years, and only 1/10 last 10 years or more.... Couples who cohabit before marriage are almost twice as likely to divorce as those who do not. Cohabiting couples report more disagreements, more frequent fights and lower levels of happiness than married couples." The rise in cohabita­tion may indicate that marriage is becoming irrelevant or an afterthought. 
The second sign is that seven states, numerous local governments, federal agencies and private employers have extended to unmarried couples ­homosexual as well as heterosexual ­pension. health and other benefits com­parable to those extended to married couples. No American jurisdiction has followed the Dutch example of formally recognizing such "domestic partner­ships" as marriages. The federal Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA) affirms the right of each state to deny recognition to a same-sex marriage recognized by any other state. DOMA will be challenged in the courts as unconstitutional. 


Should the law exclusivelv favor the traditional marriage and family? The logic of the individualist contraceptive ethic would say no. In the natural order of things, one reason why sex is reserved for marriage and why mar­riage is between a man and a woman is because sex has an intrinsic relation to babies. But if it is up to the discretion of man (of both sexes) whether sex will have any relation to procreation, why should sex be reserved for marriage? And why should the law exclusively define "marriage" as male-female? 
Last Julv the Pontifical Council for the Family issued a document. "Family, Marriage and De Facto Unions," offer­ing reasons why marriage is a "natur­al" institution prior to the state and why the family must be favored by the law. 
The Council framed the issue as one of "justice. which means treating equals equally, and what is different differently." It would be unjust 'if de facto unions were given a juridical treatment similar ... to the family based on marriage [because] society would take on obligations towards the part­ners in a de facto union [but] they in turn would not take on the ... obliga­tions to society that are proper to mar­riage." 
Marriage, in the words of John Paul II, is entitled to a "juridical status that recognizes the rights and duties of the spouses to one another and to their children.... Families play an essential role in society, whose permanence they guarantee. The family fosters the socialization of the young and helps curb ... violence by transmitting values and ... brotherhood and solidarity." 
The traditional family, based on mar­riage, has been privileged by the law because it is the seedbed for future generations. The partners in a hetero­sexual de facto union make no compa­rable binding and public commitments to themselves, their childron or societv. 
"Even more serious," in the Council's· 
view. is "the grave error of recognizing 
or even making homosexual relations 
equivalent to marriage." 
The Council quoted John Paul II on the point: "The demand to grant mari­tal status, to unions botween persons of the same sex ... is opposr,d ... by the ... impossibility of making the partnership fruitful ... according to the plan inscribed by God in the very structure of thr, human being. Another obstacle is the absence of ... that ... complementar­ity between male and female willed by the Creator .... Lastly, de facto unions between homosexuals are a deplorablr, distortion of what should br, a commu­nion of love and life between a man and a woman in a reciprocal gift open to life.... The bond betwcr,n two men or two women cannot constitute a real family and much less can the right be attributed to that union to adopt chil­dren without a familv." 
The Council criticized "the indiffer­ence, of public administrations toward the profound difference ... between conjugal love. which comes from ... marriage, and homosexual relation­ships [as] a kind of apathy with regard to the life or death of society, an indif­ference about its future projection or its degradation." 
This is true. A society in which it makes no difference whether boys marry girls or other boys is on a dead­end road to extinction. Society and the state cannot be neutral on the defini­tion of marriage and on the moral question of whether the family based on marriage should be exclusively pro­moted by the law. The evidence is abundant that our "Cultural Indicators" are moving in the wrong direction. We ought to think seriously about that. 
Professor Rice is on the Law School faculty. His column appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Ohserver. 
SCOTT ADAMS

DILBERT 
Y CAN MAKE ME  OUR ISO 9000  AND ONE OF THE  
RK IN A LITTLE  COOR.DINATOR. DIED  QUALITY ASSURANCE  
, BUT THEY CA  OF BOREDOM.  YOU'LL  GUYS IS LOOKING  
HAVE TO DO HIS  PALE ...  
JOB PLU5 YOURS.  


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Did you ever hear anyone say 'that work had better. be banned, because I might read it and it might be very damaging to me?"' 
Joseph Henry Jackson writer 
VIEWPOINT 
OTHE 

Wednesday, April 4, 2001 BSERVER page 13 
Sympathy for smokers 
Hi, my name is Eric and I'm a smok-(One of my cousins used to break the er. (Hi, Eric.) Rather, I used to be a filter off of the cigarette. Hard-core.) smoker. Recently, my doctor strong-Suddenly, it was "Hey, Eric, want a armed me into "quitting," a word that smoke?" I don't know why, but I solidts wry chuckles and sardonic grins grabbed the Marlboro Red from its when menlioned in pack, put it to my mouth and inhaled the company of fel-Eric Long as my cousin lit it with a match. I felt a low-smokers. hot blast on the back of my throat and 
Oh, everyone a pleasurable ache in my chest. Soon I tries to quit at least Fitter, grew light-headed. It was, after all, a once a season. and H • Red. 
everyone always appier · · · Importantly, smoking felt good and comes crawling made me cool in the eyes of my back. I've had cousins. Most of you will probably call friends quit for weeks at a time, only to me a liar, but I didn't cough when I start up again; friends who've gone on took that first drag. I held it back with the dubious nicotine patch to try to all of my might because of the embar­ease the quitting process (a mistake rassment it would have caused. that lightens the wallet and the head. But I have coughed since then. My because the patch-wearing smoker relationship with the nicotine-delivery­inevitably lights up to see if the buzz is device has been one-sided and abusive, enhanced by the patch ... it is); friends but I always come back. No matter who've quit for weeks at a time and where I hide out, the cigarette always use this as leverage for smoking more. knows where to find me and that I'll 
"J can quit whenever I want." they take it back with open arms and open reason. I've been guilty of the punish-lungs. Go ahead, try to talk to me ratio-ment-reward method of quitting: go a nally about the benefits of quitting. few days without. and then ----~ You'll ask me how much money "treat" myself to a whole I've spent on a substance that pack in a night, because will eventually kill me. "it has been so long You'll tell me that people since I last smoked." find smoking unattrac-
Most of you cannot tive, that my mouth relate to this. Most smells like a bowling of you don't have alley; you'll ask how to worry about I can read those quitting because Surgeon General's you never real-warnings and still ly started. You smoke. Somehow are the non-I'll sidestep all smokers and of those issues. weekend I'll manage to smokers. convince and you are myself that I smarter like the smell than I am. A of smoke, the weekend taste, the buzz smoker is that visits only not a true occasionally smoker, but now. like a I do not best friend mean any from high ~~ct. ~~ The week-instantly and end smoker '-fondly should be ~ embraced. 
quite proud ~ But my 
to be a week-defense will be end smoker. It empty and requires great apologetic, and strength to fid-~ my eyes will glaze dle with pure over. and I'll light evil and not let it up another ciga­get the best of you. c,,,.-~,-r, rette and sing my J myself have never own lament. You see, been that strong. I I'm the guy walking to was hooked from the DeBartolo Hall with a start. cigarette. I'm the guy 
Why did I start smoking? lighting up the second I step The answer is easy enough. out of the dining hall. I'm the Of course. it wasn't because I saw guy standing outside in the rain at Joe Camel and became mesmerized by four in the morning to get my fix. Well, the dignified. hip idea of a human-sized l used to be, anyway. camel smoking a cigarette while dri-Several years ago, Mick Jagger and ving a shiny convertible. or because the Stones suggested that we have a lit-some filthy cowboy welcomed me to tle sympathy for the devil; now, I Marlboro Country ("where flavor lives," request sympathy for the smoker. True, if you didn't know). I started smoking I'm dumb enough to have started, to look cool. That's right. J'm not addicted enough that l crave cigarettes ashamed to admit it I'm a total after-and forgetful enough to quit for only school special. I remember: My cousins short time periods. But not this time. were "bad" kids. Their parents It's not an easy choice that I have smoked. and naturally my cousins made, which I will prove to myself started smoking out of their mothers' again as I try to quit for the 30th time. purses and fathers' dresser drawers. Please wish me luck. 
Parents who smoke are the greatest advertising tool available to big tobac­Eric Long is a junior PLS major. His co, with "bad" cousins who smoke run­column appears every other ning a close second. One summer Wednesday. evening. when I was 16 (a whole life The views expressed in this column ahead of me) there was a family­are those ofthe author and not neces­reunion. All of the kids were hanging sarily those ofThe Observer. out. and some of them were smoking. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Voicing opinions on ad decision 
Editor's Note: In that letter, they promised to set 
On Thursday, the Editor-in-Chief. aside today's Viewpoint section to run Managing Editor, Assistant Managing all letters received discussing slavery Editor and Advertising Manager ofThe reparations and free speech. After that Observer addressed a letter to readers letter ran, we received two letters. in which they expounded reasons that Printed below are those letters. David Horowitz's advertisement enti­The Viewpoint section remains open tled, "Ten Reasons Why Reparations to discussion ofthese issues. Letters for Slm•ery is a Bad Idea -and Racist dealing with them will face the same Too, " was nut run by the paper. selection process as any other letter. 
Don't edit ideas 
I disagree with your decision not to it5 letter, nor has there been a wide­print the recent submission of Mr. spread documentation of factual David Horowitz. Indeed, as you argue errors in the mainstream press. in your letter Thursday, The Observer Mr. Horowitz does address an issue has a right to control its content. You which has received considerable have done what editors must do: edit. attention in the public square and the This, after all, is nothing but a legiti­halls of Congress. Why should this not mate form of censorship used by all be discussed at Notre Dame as well? newspapers every day. The topic itself is controversial, and, 
But not every editing decision is to some, inflammatory. But the best wise. Yes, Mr. Horowitz' s advertise­way to deal with such issues is to dis­ment is provocative, and yes he is cuss them. I believe The Observer more manipulative than most. That. in would do well to publish Mr. itself. is not a reason to reject a con­Horowitz's arguments. They would tribution. Anyone writing an opinion also do well to simultaneously take an in a newspaper is attempting to pro­editorial stand on the points he raises voke and manipulate to some extent. so that the Notre Dame community 
Were The Observer to have found can hear the voice of its leaders of conclusively that there were signifi­student opinion. cant errors of fact in Mr. Horowitz' s contribution, its decision would be Joseph M. Powers more defensible. We l~arned that The associate professor, aerospace and Observer "had doubts as to the relia­mechancial engineering bility of the information presented as University of Notre Dame facts," but nothing specific is cited in March 29, 2001 
Observer response ignores ad's text 
The Observer staff stated: "In truth, conclusion The Observer is then basi­the decision regarding whether to cally saying Horowitz's article was bla­print the advertisement is not a free tantly anti-African-American? The speech issue." They are absolutely Observer also stated that it "has a his­right. How can it be about the free tory of fighting to ensure its pages ... speech when, instead, The Observer are unbiased." Why can't the editors chose to focus on Mr. Horowitz and his fight to ensure their minds are unbi­"tactics?" ased? 
The Observer offered: "The decision I actually read Mr. Horowitz's article to reject the advertisement was obvi­with an unbiased mind. I blocked out ous." What are those obvious points? his comments of "racial separatists" The language was described as and "the political left" and looked sole­"volatile." Examples? The Observer ly at the points he made. Then I envi­"had doubts about the reliability of the sioned myself in a debate. If a modera­information presented as facts." What tor brought up the topic of "repara­kind of journalism is that? How about tions" and I was given the assignment presenting facts that refute those of of having to debate against them, J Mr. Horowitz'! would have to make the points Mr. 
The entire issue revolves around Mr. Horowitz made. Horowitz's advertisement. That is the The "obvious" move to reject the only thing that is obvious, and there­advertisement that made valid points fore, it is completely about free speech. is the equivalent of completely dismiss­Of course. The Observer does not have ing an opposing point of view and sug­to print it. There's no question about gesting that only one side is correct. that. However, what exact items were The Observer did not have to print so "obvious" that the piece was dis­the advertisement, and I have no prob­missed? Why the staff statement if you lem with that. However. The were not going to say exactly what Observer's statement on why it reject­parts made it unworthy? Why didn't ed the article had nothing to do with The Observer address the actual text? the actual text or the issue of repara­
The Observer also brought up the tions. Instead, they made it a power past advertisement from CODOH and struggle and stumbled all over them­directly compared it to Mr. Horowitz' s selves by showing their bias. piece when the staff spoke ofdismiss­ing it. Seeing as how The Observer Dan Delgado stated that CODOH was "blatantly anti­class of '97 semitic," couldn't one also draw the March 29, 2001 

-,------------------­
1 
I 
' 
V I D 
M E s 
page 14 Wednesday, April 4, 200 l 
From. a cave in Missouri, Atari's video gante reign returns 
'NASCAR 200 I' a great ride for diehard fans 
Back in the early 80s, Atari captured the hearts and minds of an entire young generation with horri­ble graphics and unforgettable titles like "Pac-Man" "Dig Dug," and "Asteroids." 
Many a game of "Pole Position" was played with Van llalen's "1984" blasting on the tape deck, and the game system was widely successful. with more than 35 million units sold. 
Like denim jackets. but unlike leg warmers, Atari is coming bar.k after almost 20 years of garage sales and obscurity in America's attics and base­ments. 
For years, Atari dodged being completely forgotten. thanks to the efforts of a small contingent of hardcore fans that never moved out of' their parents' house and can quote enlire 10 minute soctions of "Heturn of the Jedi." 



Right now, Atari 7800 sys­tems are selling for $60 on Ebay. which is funny when you consider that Sega's Dreamcasts are going for $99 in stores these days. Atari was the first truly mass-produced video game system. It came in two models, the 2600 and the more sophisticated 7800 sys­tem. if "sophisticated" is the correct word. 
The core video game design­ing theories pioneered by Atari are still used today, but where­as it took a month to design an Atari title, today's games can take more than a year from drawing board to production. 
Now O'Shea Ltd. has com­mercialized the whole Atari re­revolution. 
When the Atari Corporation went bankrupt in 1996, O'Shea 
bought 
their 
entire 

inventory Deep in a Missouri limestone cave the size of a football field, O'Shea of unsold 
Ltd. stores Its 1.1 million Atari cartridges, kept at a cool 68 degrees 
games, 

and sheltered from a nearby mine's dynamite blasts. 

more than two million cartridges in all, of which they currently still have 
1.1 million. 
But it gets weirder. The company stores the games in neat stacks in a limestone cave in Missouri the size of a football field. Nearby is a working mine, and everyday at 5:30 p.m. the warehouse shakes when miners blast dynamite. 

All games are "brand new," in the original packaging. Apparently, storing the games 150 ft. underground keeps the temperature in the warehouse at a constant 68 degrees, which is the optimal tempera­ture for Atari cartridge stor­age, as concluded by a Harvard University study. 
Underground caves have 

been used for a wide variety of important activities: nuclear bomb shelters, housing priceless heirlooms and secret hideouts for villainous cartoon charac­ters. Add Atari game storage to that prestigious list. 
O'Shea sells the games on a Web site at www.atariclassic.com, where every game goes for $2, but a minimum of 12 games must be purchased per order. 
"These games are definitely collectible items, and they are fast approaching antique status, thus rais­ing their collectible value with each passing year," claims O'Shea employee Bill Houlahan 
It is expected that when Atari games actually arc considered antiques, they could be worth as much as $2.10. but judging by O'Shea's enormous inven­tory, supply is currently outstripping demand. 
Jeff Baltruzak is a sophomore business major. Short Circuits appears every third Wednesday in Scene. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
By MATT ORENCHUK 
Scene Video Game Reviewer 
When I first decided to review "NASCAH 2001" for the Sony Playstation it sounded like a good idea in my head. After all. I live in North Carolina. 
But when I got the game home, and turned it on, I realized that despite living in the south, I don't really know much about the sport. 

"N ASCAH 2001" is a pretty gu.od video game. But that statement comes with a catch -the game is fun, but it is a lot more fun if you understand NASCAH. 
First. the good stuff about the game: all the drivers are the same as real NASCAH racing, and so are all of the tracks. 

While all of the NASCAH tracks are expected to be there (like Daytona and Charlotte Motor Speedway) there are also some pleasant surprises, includ­ing cool road courses like Las Vegas and New York. 
These tracks change the entire strategy of the game. On the Daytona track you race the game like a NASCAH race: fast on the straight­aways, and hug close on the turns. But on the road courses. you can't just 
hold the throttle button and expect to hug all of the turns. Since there aren't any super-elevated curves on the road courses, you have to race very cau­tiously and use the brake a lot. 
The best track on "NASCAR 2001" is the Indianapolis Motor Speedway. It is interesting to see NASCAR on a track made famous by the small­


er CART race appeal to cars. The hardcore graphics are racing superb on the fans. game Once you
,,IIwhile they h a v e aren't crystal picked clear. they your driver still look and where sharp. you want 
Another to race, great feature you then about the go to a game is that screen that each track allows you has its own to decide personality. on some 
When rac­details of ing on the your car: N o r t h the tire 
Carolina pressure, Speedway in the rear 
"NASCAR 2001" for the Sony Playstation offers a complete racing experience for every fan, each track boasting Its own personality. 

Rockingham, you can make out ads for Bojangles, a restaurant chain in North Carolina. 
This attention to detail for each track makes you feel as if you are get­ting the full flavor of each site. 
There are some features of "NASCAR 2001" that are techni­cal, and would only 
bias, the left bias and the wheel lock of your tires. 
While this feature might be useful if you are a huge NASCAR fan, it can be annoying to those who just want to race. 
Another features of "NASCAH 2001" is that you can set the length of the race. You can race as little as 3 per­cent of the race -about seven to 10 laps -all the way up to the entire race. 
''NASCAH 2001" also features artifi­cial intelligence in each of the racers. If you are racing in the Daytona 500. Jeff Gordon's car in the game will race like Jeff Gordon does in real life. 
In this 2001 version, you can race an entire season on the NASCAR cir­cuit. You start each race by qualifying in the field. Then you race, and finish­ers pick up points towards the NASCAll championship. (There is no Winston Cup Series in this game.) 
Overall, "NASCAH 2001" is a great game for the diehard NASCAH fan. All of the personality that makes NASCAll a cultural icon in the South is found in this game. 
However, if you want a racing game that relies less on strategy and more on racing (like "Mario Kart 64"), then "NASCAH 2001" might not be your game. 
V I D 
M E s 
Wednesday, April 4, 2001 page 15 

By ADAM TURNER 
Scene Video Game Reviewer 
"Fear Effect 2: Retro Helix" takes place in the year 2028. when humankind is plagued by EINDS {Environmentally Induced Nucleotide Degeneration Syndrome}. 
EINDS stops protein synthesis at the DNA level by preventing DNA from splitting into mRNA and tRNA, effectively ceasing cellular reproduction and killing whomever is unlucky enough to contract this disease. 
"Fear Effect 2" takes place from the point of view of four different mercenaries. each with their own par­ticular skills and methods. 
As gameplay progresses, play­


ers are able to use Hana Tsu­evade gunfire by rolling on the Vachel, an assassin skilled in ground, but as soon as you covert operations; Royce Glas, a stand back up the guards have specialist in counter-intelligence their sights right on you and tactics; Jakob "Deke" Decourt, are probably already firing. an insane, cold-blooded killer; Lacking the ability to avoid and finally, fl.ain Qin, Hana's getting shot repeatedly is very 
companion. frustrating. Realistically. if 
When Hana, Royce, and Deke these characters were highly are a.II independently contracted trained assassins, they to retrieve three separate items wouldn't just stand in one spot on a simple infiltrate-and-recov­and fire their guns until every­er mission, things go horribly one was dead. That kind of wrong. basic stupidity was better spent 
The three are forced to put on games like "Doom" and aside their personal differences "Quake." in order to save the world from Another strange snippet in imminent death and destruction. "Fear Effect 2" is that the 
The cinematic sequences flow seamlessly through­out the game, which look fantastic, in a cartoon sort of way. The best feature of "Fear Effect 2" is the elim­ination of load times except for the very beginning of each mission. 
Load time has always been the major drawback that Playstation game designers have had to deal with, and the Eidos team found a way to load only once per mis­sion, even after a death sequence, which is unheard of. 
This feature creates very, very addictive game play and a new standard for the rest of the industry. There is one major flaw in "Fear Effect 2": the fight­ing system. Sometimes you stumble into a room of guards and you end up dead. You are given the ability to 
using the three items they recover. which can be used to cure EINDS. 
"f<'ear Effect 2" is absolutely massive, spanning four disks to travel to the seamy underbelly of Hong Kong, the walled city of Xi'an, the tomb of the First Emperor of China and finally Penglai Shan, the legendary mountain island of the immortals. 
Each mission is jam-packed with puzzles, enemies and mutants. promising a bloody fun time for every­one, especially fans of the original "Fear Effect." 
movies look like Saturday morning cartoons gone absolutely wrong. Some things are better not portrayed by cartoon images, and giant bloody mutants fall into that category. 
Fans of the first "Fear Effect" will love this game, and people wanting to get in on the action by jumping right into the sequel won't be disappointed with what their $40 can buy them. 
Aside from frustrating battles and scary monsters, "Fear Effect 2" delivers a warm, content feeling for all. 
ENTERTAINMENT NEWS BRIEFS 

Streisand chides Democrats: "funny Girl" Barbra Streisand hasn't been laughing sinr,e November. and Bill Clinton's loyal friend is fed up with her party's leadership. In a three­page memo to top Democrats. Streisand accused them of being "paralyzed, demoralized and depressed" since the election of President Bush. "We have a president who stole the presi­dency through family ties, arrogance and intim­idation. employing Republican operatives to exercise the tactics of voter fraud by disenfran­chising thousands of blacks, elderly Jews and other minorities," Streisand wrote last week from Malibu, Calif., in a letter signed simply "Barbra." Streisand's publicist, Dick Guttman, forwarded to the media on Monday an edited version of the memo, titled "Nice Guys Finish Last." "I hope you're through arguing among yourselves and distancing yourselves from President Clinton," Streisand wrote. "Let's not let them divert attention from the success of his administration over the past eight years. Let's not allow the Republicans to take away the gains we've made." 
Ashley Judd to be Catwoman: Ashley Judd has snagged a purr-feet new role as Batman's nemesis in the new movie "Catwoman." The Caped Crusader will play a supporting role to the "felonious feline" in the new Warner Bros. film, Variety reported Monday from Los Angeles. Michelle Pfeiffer played Catwoman in the 1992 sequel "Batman Returns." "Catwoman" is the third film in the comic-book franchise in development at Warner Bros. Darren Aronofsky, director of the bleak drug-addiction tragedy "Requiem for a Dream," is working on a prequel titled "Batman: Year One." Meanwhile, "Remember the Titans" director Boaz Yakin is developing the movie "Batman Beyond," based on the futuristic WB cartoon about a young crime­fighter who replaces the retired Bruce Wayne. 
Kidman condemns invasive press: 
Nicole Kidman has lashed out at the media for its coverage of her recent miscarriage and breakup with husband Tom Cruise. Kidman told The Sydney Morning Herald for Tuesday's editions that the weeks since her split with Cruise have been the toughest of her life. She said reports that surfaced last week of her mis­carriage earlier this year had been "very upset­ting and it's very invasive." "l understand that people are interested but it's my life -my per­sonal life," the actress said. "It's very difficult seeing your life being dragged through the newspapers and the tabloids and your children being dragged through it." Cruise and Kidman announced in early February that they would split after 10 years of marriage. The powerful Hollywood couple have two adopted children, 8-year-old Isabella and 6-year-old Conor. Kidman is preparing to play writer Virginia Woolf in a new film and is working on a publici­ty blitz for her upcoming movie "Moulin Rouge," co-starring Ewan McGregor, which premieres at the Cannes Film Festival in May. 
VH l Divas honor Aretha Franklin: 
Mary J. Blige, Marc Anthony and Jill Scott will be among the artists to give a little R-E-S-P-E­C-T to Aretha Franklin at VH1 's fourth annual "Divas" celebration on April 10. The concert will be broadcast Hve from Radio City Music Hall in New York City. Franklin will sing, but her only duet of the evening will be with rap­rocker and fellow Detroit native Kid Rock. Janet Jackson will be a special guest. Other perform­ers scheduled for the evening include members of the Backstreet Boys, actresses from HBO's "The Sopranos" and Pamela Anderson. VHl ·s "Divas" specials raise money for the VH1 Save the Music Foundation, a nonprofit organization designed to boost music education in public schools. Since 1997. the group has donated more than $10 million worth of instruments to 530 public schools in 40 cities. 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, April 3, 2001 
NBA 
Pack leads Nuggets, slows Trail Blazers' playoff push 
and fourth quarter to build a the Detroit Pistons won their ning streak. Lakers 96, Jazz 88 
Associated Press 
79-68 lead with 10:25 remain­third straight, over the Chicago The victory, combined with The Los Angeles Lakers ing. Bulls. Philadelphia's loss at Toronto, proved they don't need Kobe Robert Pack. starting in place The Blazers, who missed nine Stackhouse was 21-for-36 gave the Spurs (52-22) the Bryant to beat a playoff-boundof suspended point guard Nick of their first 10 3-point from the field and 11-for-13 NBA's best record. team. The Utah Jazz, mean­Van Exel, had a season-high 26 attempts, could never mount a from the line in breaking Kelly The Sonics, who lost for just while, must be concerned about points as the Denver Nuggets sustained and were never clos­Tripucka's team record of 56 the second time in 12 games, their struggles against playoff­slowed Portland's playoff push er than six points until Pippen points, set in 1984. had their already shaky playoff bound teams.
with a victory over the Trail 
and Stoudamire hit 3-pointers Philadelphia's Allen Iverson hopes damaged. Seattle now Shaquille O'Neal scored 31 
Blazers. 
13 seconds apart in the final scored 54 earlier this season. trails Minnesota by 3 1/2 games points and Robert Horry cameKevin Willis added 19 points 
minute. Stackhouse's career-best in the race for the eighth and off the bench for 20 to lead theand 18 rebounds, and George effort is the highest single-game final playoff berth in the West. Lakcrs to a victory over the
McCloud scored 20 for the Mavericks 109, Rockets 97 
performance since Shaquille It didn't help matters that the Utah Jazz in a matchupNuggets, who also played with­The Dallas Mavericks 
O'Neal had 61 against the Los Sonics were without two between teams headed for the 
out leading scorer and wrapped up their first playoff 
Angeles Clippers on March 6, starters (Patrick Ewing and Western Conference playoffs. 
rebounder Antonio McDyess spot in 11 years, beating the 
2000. Jelani McCoy) and were facing The Jazz trailed by 11 points(dislocated kneecap). Houston Rockets behind Chucky Atkins added 19 an opponent that beat them by midway through the final peri­Portland also was short-hand­Michael Finley's 27-point per­points and Ben Wallace had 20 27 and 28 points in their first od but rallied to cut the margin
ed after suspending leading formance. 
rebounds to help Detroit match two meetings this sea.son. to 86-84 with 2:40 to play when 
scorer Rasheed Wallace for Juwan Boward added 23 for 
its longest winning streak of the Rookie center Olumide Karl Malone made two freeinappropriate on-court behav­Dallas, which secured the play­
season. Oyedeji made his first career throws. but the Lakers pulledior. The move came two days off berth with the victory and The Pistons led by 13 after start, and Duncan went right at away in a frenzied, emotionalafter Wallace drew his 39th Seattle's loss at San Antonio. 
one quarter, with Stackhouse him on the game's first posses­final two minutes.
and 40th technical fouls in a Dirk Nowitzki scored 20 and outscoring the Bulls 24-20. sion, scoring easily in the low O'Neal scored on a one-hand­loss to the Minnesota Steve Nash 16 as the Mavs won Stackhouse made 8-of-11 from post. Little went wrong for the ed jumper and added two freetheir second straight game, fifth Timbcrwolves. 
the field -2-of-3 from 3-point Spurs the rest of the way, throws before Horry scored onThe timing of the suspension in their last six and 11th in 14. 
range -and made all six of his although there was a negative a breakaway dunk following ahampered the Blazers as they Cuttino Mobley led the free throws for Detroit's record note to the night as Robinson Utah turnover. Just as quicklyfell one game behind fourth­Rockets with 28 points. Maurice scoring in a quarter. missed the second half because as the Jazz had rallied, they
place Dallas in the Western Taylor had 16 and Hakeem 
Stackhouse first beat Ron of a sore back. were down 92-84 with 1 :42 toConference playoff race. Olajuwon 15 as Houston lost for Artest, considered the Bulls' The Spurs hardly needed him, play.
Earlier in the day, the NBA the sixth time in eight games. 
best defender, then moved on though, as Duncan had 12 Malone led the Jazz with 31suspended backup point guard The Rockets usual leading to Corey Benjamin -who points and five rebounds in the points while John StocktonRod Strickland after he pleaded scorer, Steve Francis, managed picked up four fouls in six min­third quarter when the Spurs scored 19 and Donyell Marshallguilty to a drunken driving only five points, 15 below his 
utes -before cooling off led their lead slip below double had 10.
charge. average, on 1-of-12 shooting 
against Fred Hoiberg. digits for only a few seconds. But Derek Fisher scored 17Even without Wallace, there from the field A 3-pointer by A.J. Guyton cut San Antonio took a 12-point and rookie Mike Penberthy had were six technical fouls called, With Olajuwon scoring eight the lead to 50-45 with 1 :34 left lead into the fourth quarter and 10 as the Lakers' benchand Portland guard Bonzi Wells points, the Rockets moved in the half, but Corliss was not challenged down the outscored the Utah reserves 38­was ejected after receiving his ahead 29-23 with 1:57 left in 
Williamson's jumper gave the stretch in winning for the sixth 19.
second technical with 46 sec­the first period. But Howard Pistons a 56-47 halftime lead. time in eight games. Bryant didn't play. Lakersonds left in the game. helped keep the Mavs close Stackhouse, who averaged 29.6 Derek Anderson added 16 coach Phil Jackson decided hisThe Blazers trailed by 92-86 scoring 11 in the period, which points, had 29 at the break, a points and eight assists and star shooter, who ranks third inwhen Wells left the court and ended with Houston up 32-29. 
Detroit season-high. Antonio Daniels scored 11. the NBA at 28. 7 points a game,rallied within two on 3-pointers Howard hit his first two shots With Detroit leading 61-53 in Gary Payton and Rashard needed more time to rest a soreby Damon Stoudamire and in the second period and Finley the third, Pistons coach George Lewis scored 23 each for left foot that has put him on the
Scottie Pippen. and Vernon Maxwell hit back­
Irvine was ejected by official Seattle. bench for six of the last sevenAfter Pack missed a long 3-to-back 3-pointers to help the Luis Grillo for arguing a call. The Spurs, who never trailed, games.
pointer with 4.1 seconds Mavs inch ahead 39-38. It 
Assistant David Twardzik took opened a 10-2 lead in the first The loss doesn't bode well for remaining, Portland had one remained close until late in the 
over. few minutes as Seattle missed the Jazz. who had won two
last possession, but Steve quarter when Dallas went on a 
The Bulls got within five, but its first six shots and committed straight but got those winsSmith's 30-footer rattled in and 9-2 run to open a 59-50 lead were scoreless for nearly all of three turnovers. Duncan went against lowly Cleveland and out as the buzzer sounded. with 2:36 left. 
the quarter's final five minutes. to the bench with two fouls just Vancouver.
Stoudamire and Smith each The Mavericks stretched the five minutes into the game, and Since Utah went 1-5 lastfinished with 17 points to lead lead to as many as 12 before the Sonics managed to catch up month against playoff-bound
six Blazers in double figures. settling for a 67-5 8 lead at Spurs 107, Supersonics 89 
and trail just 20-1 7 after one Western Conference teams, the
Dale Davis had 12 points and intermission, the most points Tim Duncan had 30 points 
quarter. Lakers would offer a better13 rebounds. allowed by the Rockets in a first and 14 rebounds, doing most of Duncan came back for the sense of where the Jazz stood
Seeking scoring from other half this season. his damage with David start of the second quarter and against their peers.
sources, the Nuggets got sever­Robinson sitting out the second scored the final four points of Jazz coach Jerry Sloan, angryal strong drives from Pack and half, as the San Antonio Spurs
Pistons 110, Bulls 83 

an 8-0 run that put San Antonio over the officiating, had two
support inside from Willis as beat Seattle to end the
Jerry Stackhouse scored an ahead 28-17. technicals called against him
they used a 15-2 over the third Supersonics' four-game win-
NBA season-high 57 points as and was ejected from the game. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office 024 South I?ining Hall. Deadline for next-?ay cl~ssifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. ' 
The charge ts 3 cents per character per day, mcludmg all spaces. The Observer reserves the right co edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Full size bed with box spring and Nice 3-bdrm H/2 bath 3-6 BDRM HOMES Now hiring servers and hostesses frame $150 call 634-4575 Tri-level, family room. fireplace, $180 per person at LePeep -Downtown South fenced back yard, 2-car garage. Furn. Summer/Fall Bend.
LOST AND FOUND PERSONAL 
$995/mo 272-6306 Great Hours, great Pay, Great Fun, 
LOST FOR RENT Call 219-232-4527 288-7337 Of six's -Kendall, Adrienne. A black carry-on bag at Or 616-683-5038 WANTED Merideth. Lauren and Amy • the Main Circle on Thursday Need part-ttme leasing. Now to existence of the collective is now (3/22) between 8 pm and midnight. 5 miles from Notre Dame Chicago two bedroom in Lakeview September. 20-25 hrs/week. guaranteed! Beware all who dare to If found or have any info on its Close to everything owned by Domer, nice closets. Summer Interns -Organization skills, filing, phone. mess with the collective! You all whereabouts, please contact 4 bedrooms 1.5 baths recently brick 6-flat. Hardwood floors, bright Publishing/Marketing (Northbrook, Call Iara 272-1441 or 272 1461. rock! Pablo at x1775 remodeled apartment, decorative fireplace, Ill) Love, five of six, a.k.a. Katie 
Main level laundry finished base-near el, heat included! May 1 BECOMING FAMILY, a recently Need infant childcare for 6 month ment 1250/month launched national magazine that old Wed & Fri 8-5. Contact Kristen To our "single" friends• you know 773-472-7775 celebrates and encourages family the action will be in 249 LeMans! 
FOR SALE 2076 living area life is looking for interns 631-8270 But we'll find solitude in youl plenty of storage 3-bdrm home 2 blks from campus, (www.becomingfamily.com). One 
Fall 01. position Is MARKETING, the other Graduating seniors: Karen -don't forget your "bottle" for 19B7 Chevy Cavalier Call 256-0698 273-1566 EDITORIAL. Email resumes to Looking to sell your apartment fumi-professor "shweaty-bai/s" class 4 spd. Stick, 2 door, towner. mov-John Madigan ('84) at lure (beds. desks. couches, etc)? Ing, great college car New home Fall 2001. This 3+ 3 houses still available tor 2001-02, info@becomingfamily.com and indi• ND juniors looking to buy. Renee -have you ever considered 
$350 bdrm, 3 bath homw is close to cam-5-6 BR, Furnished, W/D, prime cate interest Marketing or Editorial sleeping at night and doing work pus with features like fireplace. locations. Call Nick at 4-4716 if interested. during the day instead of the other Call 289-9864 cahedral ceilings, family room, 233-9947 Greg Returning lo ND after college for way around? In case you hadn't deluxe appliances. 24x30 garage. graduate or law school? We are Indiana Catholic couple with huge noticed -the rest of the boring worlo 
Europe $199 one way. $1400/mo. CHICAGO APT. AVAILABLE FOR looking for another roommate to hearts wishing to adopt a child. We does it that way. Mexico/Caribbean or Central Call 219-232-4527 or 616-683-MAY THROUGH AUGUST IN LIN• share furnished house near cam• can provide your baby with lots of America $250 round trip plus tax. 5038 COLN PARK LOCATION. CLOSE pus. love and a secure, stable life. Feel better Mer! Other wide de5tinations cheap. If TOEL Call 2B9-5651 Reasonable expenses will be paid. you beat these prices start your Turtle Creek townhouse available 1 or 2 BEDROOMS Karen -Look! I'm leaving you a own darn airline! Book tickets on for summer session OWN BATHROOM Roommate(s) to fill out house off For more info, please call Rebecca classified! No complaining today! line www.alrtech.com or toll free $780/mo. campus re: Larry & Kathy; toll-free 1-866· (Bn) AIRTECH. Call 272-0915 1-312-443-6062 JAIME Call Michael@ 288-3429 30-ADOPT. Ralph is still my hero/ 
Wednesday, April 4, 2001 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 4, 2001 
NBA 
Trail Blazers suspend Wallace 
Associated Press 
PORTLAND 
Growing weary of Rasheed Wallace's boorish on-court behavior. the Portland Trail Blazers suspended their All­Star for one game Tuesday ­two days after his most recent, record-setting tantrum. 
Wallace sat out the Blazers' game at Denver on Tuesday night, the start of a four-game road trip. He was scheduled to play in Wednesday night's game against Minnesota. 
"The team has regulations and policies," coach Mike Dunleavy said. "You take into consideration different actions, and after the game on Sunday this decision was made. It basi­cally is what it is." 

Blazers backup point guard Rod Strickland also was sus­pended for Tuesday night's game, by the NBA. Strickland was sentenced to 10 days in jail Monday for pleading guilty to a drunken driving charge, stemming from a Jan. 7 arrest when he was a member of the Washington Wizards. 
While Strickland did not attend the game at Denver, Wallace did but had no com­ment when asked about the suspension. 
"At this point you can't worry about it," Dunleavy said. "You have to look at it as a positive that it gives somebody else a chance to step up and be a 
positive contributor. That's what we need so we can secure the best seed in the playoffs." 
Wallace has been ejected seven times this season, and was suspended for two games for throwing a towel at referee Gary Benson after he was thrown out of a Feb. 1 victory over Phoenix. But this is the first time the team has sus­pended him for his actions. 
The punishment came after Wallace was ejected with 7:29 left in the third quarter of Portland's loss to the Timberwolves on Sunday. The Blazers rallied without their top scorer, but shot just 4-of­19 in the fourth quarter and lost 99-95. 
Wallace was tossed for argu­ing with officials that he had been fouled by LaPhonso Ellis on a fast break. He was issued two technical fouls, resulting in an automatic ejection. Wallace has 40 technicals, surpassing his own NBA record of 38 set last season. 
Portland has lost the last three games in which Wallace has been ejected, and Dunleavy hoped to see him come back strong at Minnesota on Wednesday. 
"Hopefully we will see the Rasheed that is the dominating player that comes back with an aggressiveness of a guy that had a day off," he said. 
Wallace, who made the West All-Star team for the second straight season as a reserve, is having his best season statisti­cally, averaging 19.4 points and 7.9 rebounds. His .506 field-goal percentage is third­best in the league. 
The Blazers have repeatedly supported Wallace, saying his temper is a result of his intense desire to win. The team also has emphasized his work in the community and the fact that he has no criminal record. 
Dunleavy even backed him after Sunday's loss, saying Wallace's reputation among officials contributed to the ejection. 
"Maybe another guy doesn't get thrown out for the same thing," the coach said. 
Strickland pleaded guilty to driving under the influence of alcohol Monday in federal court in Alexandria, Va. In addition to the jail term ­which Strickland will serve after the season -U.S. Magistrate Judge Barry Poretz placed him on supervised pro­b a tion for two years and ordered him to attend sub­stance abuse counseling. The player also was fined about $1,000. 
Strickland was waived by the Wizards on March 1, and the Blazers signed him four days later. As the backup to Damon Stoudamire, Strickland has averaged 5.9 points and 4.1 assists in 13 games. 

Police try to sort out Arizona riots 
Associated Press 
TUCSON 
With the burned-out vehi­cles cleared away and smashed windows boarded up Tuesday, police tried to sort out the riot involving University of Arizona basket­ball fans. 
Police also were examining their own response to Monday's melee in a commer­cial and residential district near the university. 
The riot began after Arizona's loss to Duke in the NCAA championship in Minneapolis. 
Fans overturned vehicles and set them on fire in a scene reminiscent of distur­bances that followed the Wildcats' victory in the 1997 title game. Police eventually resorted to firing rubber bul­lets, stingball grenades, shot­gun-fired bean bags and tear gas to disperse the crowds. Seventeen people were also arrested, at least seven of !.hem students. 
Police deployed about 500 officers in riot gear Monday night in the Fourth Avenue area, anticipating a rerun of problems seen in 1997. 
"I felt that we did a whole lot better job last night than we did in 1997," Police Chief Richard Miranda said. 
Officers did not move in and begin enforcing their order to disperse until after revelers had tipped over several vehi­cles and set at least two cars and a motor home on fire. 
The rioters, mostly young men, also overturned planters, trash bins, smashed some decorative street lights and tore down street signs at the peak oft.he disturbance. 
A brick wall and part of the roof of a bar called The Hut was scorched by one of the fires, and several of its win­dows were boarded up Tuesday, like those in a num­ber of stores over a three­block stretch of Fourth Avenue. 
Several people were hit by the rubber bullets. and four of about 10 people requiring medical attention at University Medical Center were admitted, all with non­life-threatening injuries, spokeswoman Pila Martinez said. Two men were listed in fair condition and another man in good condition. A woman was admitted and then discharged. 
Alexis Hernandez, associate dean of students at the uni­versity, said seven of those arrested were students. 
"It's unfortunate that any­one who is enrolled in the uni­versity might have taken part in that and it's embarrassing," he said. 
the catholic woman: 
"What is my Vocation"? 

Thursday, April 5 
DeBartolo 126 
Offered in cooperation with: St. Thomas More Society and the Schubmehl-Prein Endowment. 

6:30 PM SISTER SARA BUTLER, M.S.B.T. 
Professor of Systematic Theology, Mundelein Seminary 
'7ohn Paul II's Teaching on Women and the Vocation to Religious Life." 
Why does Pope john Paul II think of himself as a"feminist"? k Butler will explain 
why by setting out six structural elements from the Pope's apostolic letter "On the 
Dignity and Vocation of Women." She will also point out some important themes 
from his more recent addrems. Women's ordination and women's 
vocations to the religious life will be examined in relation to these themes and 
to the questions raised in our day by Catholic feminists. 
7:30 PM SUSAN CAROZZA 
"The Singular Vocation to Motherhood." 
Ms. Carozza will describe how an understanding of vocation can evolve in each Christian's life, with particular reference to her own vocation as a stay-at-home mother. She will draw on the Church's teachings, the Bible, and her own eKperiences to explain why awoman of profmional training and ambitions might choose to interrupt her career to raise a family. 
8:00 PM NICOLE STELLE GARNETT 
Notre Dame Law School 
"The Dual Vocation to the Workplace and Motherhood." 
In public opinion polls, an increasing number of American women claim that they value time with their families more than career advancement; and that they are willing to make professional sacrifices in order to "balance" family and work. Is "balance" the answer? Is it even achievable? This working mother shares her views about how the concept of vocation can help guide awoman's decisions concerning career and family. 
8:30 PM Reception with Refreshments 
Wednesday, April 4, 200I The Observer . SPORTS page 19 AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Rodriguez flawless in the field but fails at the plate 
jam, he allowed just two. run~ Gerald Williams hit a solo 

Associated Press 
and seven hits in 7 1-3 innings, homer off Kevin Beirne in the struck out five and walked sixth inning and Vinny Castilla

Alex Rodriguez struck out 
none. doubled twice and drove in athree times and singled in his After giving up a run in the run for Tampa Bay. The Devilfirst home game for Texas, and third inning, Rogers retired 14 Rays improved to 2-2 in seasonthe Rangers beat the Anaheim straight batters before running openers and won for the firstAngels in their home opener. 

into more trouble. Molina led time in four home openers. 

Rodriguez, whose $252 mil­
off with a double, David Randy Winn, who hit onelion, 10-year contract with 

Eckstein got his first career hit homer in 159 at-bats last sea­Texas is· the richest in sports and Darin Erstad drove in his son, added a solo shot offhistory, struck out swinging in second run with his third hit. Kelvim Escobar in the eighth. 

the first and eighth innings, 
Jeff Zimmerman needed just Lopez began last season intook a called third strike in the two pitches to get pinch-hitter the bullpen and had made 152sixth and singled in the third. 

Orlando Palmeiro, the only consecutive relief appearancesRodriguez -who struck out batter he faced, to ground into before moving into the rotationjust 121 times in 148 games an inning-ending double play. May 28 and going on to lead

last year -increased this 
Scott Schoeneweis, making Tampa Bay in victories (11),year's strikeout total to four. 

his first opening day start, ERA (4.13), complete games (4) But he also had his third hit, allowed three runs and eight and innings pitched (185 1-3). 

a stolen base and was flawless hits over seven innings. The Blue Jays got a superbin the field before 49,512, a Rusty Greer's sacrifice fly in pitching performance fromregular-season record at The 
the seventh brought home Esteban Loaiza in their season­Ballpark in Arlington. 

Chad Curtis to make it 3-2. opening victory over Texas onOn the first ball hit his way, Curtis led off with a single, Sunday, but Steve Parris (0-1)he started a 6-4-3 double play moved to second when Ruben couldn't duplicate the successin the second. An inning later. 

Mateo singled and then made in his American League debut. 

he went deep into the hole 
it to third when Molina threw Parris, obtained fromright, scooped up the ball and 

behind him in an attempted Cincinnati in an offseason

threw Tim Salmon out at first. 
pickoff. On the same play, trade, allowed four runs on

A-Rod, who had just 10 
Mateo was thrown out trying nine hits in four innings. He errors all last season, made a to advance. gave up an RBI double to Greg

throwing error on his first 
The Rangers went ahead 2-0 Vaughn in the second, a singlechance in the season-opening 

in the second when lvan and a walk before Borbon

8-1 loss to Puerto Rico and 
Rodriguez and Andres replaced him with no outs in

also stumbled twice while try­
Galarraga both hit opposite­the fifth and gave up Grieve'sing to get to balls. 

field doubles to right. triple.

Kenny Rogers won the 
Galarraga scored when Mateo McGriff grounded to first toRangers' home opener for the 

grounded into a double play. drive in Tampa Bay's second

second straight season and 
run and give the Devil Rays a

Tim Crabtree converted his 
lead for the first time in a

first save opportunity for Devil Rays 8, Blue Jays 1 
home opener. Grieve's triple

Texas in the same way that his Albie Lopez scattered seven 
into the right-field corner
hits over eight innings, andpredecessor John Wetteland 

made it 4-1, and Castilla's RBI
Ben Grieve had a two-run

often did: exciting but effec­
double off Bierne drove in the
triple in his Tampa Bay debuttive. 

third run in a four-run fifth. 

Crabtree, wearing in the Devil Rays' season-open­Wetteland's old No. 35, ing victory over the Toronto allowed Anaheim to load the Blue Jays. Twins 3, Tigers 2 
Lopez, who began last sea­Even Detroit's first opening­bases with no outs in the ninth. 

With just five career saves in son in the bullpen, walked day complete game in 12 years six seasons, Crabtree gave up three and struck out six to wasn't enough for the Tigers to move past Rolando Arrojo for overcome Brad Radke in
a single to Tim Salmon and a 
double to Tony Glaus before an the most victories in Devil Rays Comerica Park's first season history (22). · opener. 60 career starts. Jack Morris Comerica Park's opener.
intentional walk to Garret Anderson. 
Shannon Stewart's second Radke limited Detroit to one had pitched the Tigers' last Both teams were hoping to Glenallen Hill, acquired by homer of the season, a solo run in eight innings and David opening-day complete game change their recent pasts. Anaheim from the Yankees last 
shot in the third, accounted for Ortiz homered to lead the and it also was a loss, 4-0 to Detroit has finished with losing week, then grounded into the the Blue Jays' only run. Minnesota Twins to a 3-2 win Texas in 1989. records in a team-record seven double play and then Crabtree Grieve, acquired from Tuesday in what figures to be Detroit, opening the second straight seasons, and snagged Benji Molina's come­Oakland in a three-team trade a long season for both teams. season of its new ballpark, Minnesota is coming off eight backer for the final out. over the winter, went l-for-4. Before a capacity crowd of started the season at home for consecutive losing years. 
While Rogers needed help to His triple off Pedro Borbon 40,104, Jeff Weaver pitched a the first time since 1992 at Radke, starting a $36 mil­get out of an eighth-inning keyed a four-run fifth that six-hitter and struck out four Tiger Stadium. Last year, the lion, four-year contract, broke the game open. for his third complete game in Tigers beat Seattle 5-2 in allowed his only run on Bobby Higgonson's RBI double in the 


page 20 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, April 4, 2001 


See all the opportunities your college education allows you to pursue. Why start at the bottom of a company when the Air Force will put you near the top? 
AIR FORCE OFFICERS·!!!! 

The Air Force has several positions for qualified officers. As an Air Force officer, you'll gain experience, earn respect, be part of a professional team and continue to expand your career horizons. Additionally, our starting pay and benefits package is competitive with most civilian organizations. One difference is that your pay increases as you progress in rank. The leadership and management skills you learn while in the Air Force will benefit you for the rest of your life. 
2 Great Ways To Go -Graduate and attend a 90 day training course (OTS) and start your exciting career 
OR 

If you graduate in 2002 or 2003, let us pay you $15,000 tuition and fees, $480 for textbooks and supplies and up to $2,000 a year until you graduate! 
THE BENEFITS 
Sponsored Opportunities for Graduate School or 
Specialized Training Retirement After 20 Years of Service (Non contributory) 30 Days Vacation With Pay Each Year Comprehensive Medical & Dental Care for Member/family Unlimited Sick Leave Low Cost Life Insurance Relocation Costs Covered Exchange and Commissaries (Dept And Grocery Stores) Air Travel (Worldwide) on AF aircraft when on leave Officer Club Membership Available 
FACILITIES AVAILABLE 
Base Schools Health Clubs Education Centers Gymnasiums, Free Weights, and Nautilus Equipment, 
Saunas, Etc. Child Care Facilities Service Stations Tennis Courts Credit Union Golf Courses Cafeterias/Snack Bars Swimming Pools Base Newspaper Theaters Banks Bowling Lanes Libraries Picnic Areas Post Offices Auto Shops Rod and Gun Club Housing (Family/Single/Guest) Aero Clubs and Car Clubs Arts And Crafts Shops Horse Stables/Riding Clubs 

JOBS AVAILABLE FOR OFFICERS 
AIR BATILEMANJ\GEMENT: AWACCOMMAND AND CONTROL OPERATIONS AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL 
SPACE & MISSILE OPERATIONS: SATELLITE COMMAND AND CONTROL, SPACE, SPACEL1Ff, or MAINTENANCE 
SURVEILLANCE INTELLIGENCE, OPERATIONS or APPLICATIONS WEATHER (Meteorology) AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE and/or MUNITIONS LOGISTICS PLANS & PROGRAMS SUPPLY TRANSPORTATION 
SECURITY FORCES 
CIVIL ENGINEER: ARCHITECTURAL ENGINEERING, CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL, GENERAL or ENVIRONMENTAL 
COMMUNICATIONS-COMPUTER SYSTEMS ELECTRICAL ENGINEER SERVICES BAND PUBLIC AFFAIRS PERSONNEL MANPOWER AND QUALITY MANAGEMENT SCIENTIST: ANALYTICAL, BEHAVIORAL, CHEMIST, 
or PHYSICIST 
DEVELOPMENTAL ENGINEER: AERONAUTICAL, ASTRONAUTICAL, COMPUTER SYSTEMS, ELECTRICAL/ ELECTRONIC, PROJECT, MECHANICAL 
AQUISITION MANAGER CONTRACTING FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT COST ANALYSIS SPECIAL INVESTIGATIONS PU..OT NAVIGATOR 
Interested? Contact Captain Martin Klubeck at 219-631-4676 (Klubeck.1@nd.edu) or SSgt Daugherty at 219-237-1950 for more information. 
Wednesday, April 4, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
continued from page 24 
anv such decision. 
Brey could find his frontcourt lacking next season. If Macura, a 6-9 forward, follows Kartelo's decision to transfer, and 6-11 junior All-American Troy Murphy makes himself eligible for the NBA Draft, the only returning post player_s with significant college expen­e n ce will be juniors Ryan Humphrey and Harold 
Hingis safe to play again 

MEN'S LACROSSE 
Irish blast Buckeyes 13-4 in GWLL opener 
Swanagan. 
WOMEN'S PRO TENNIS
In the past, Brey has indicat­

Kartelo 
ed that he is open to the possi­
bility of accepting a transfer; however, a transfer student would have to sit out a year before becoming eligible to play. 
Kartelo played at Winchendon School in Massachusetts prior to coming to Notre Dame, averaging 13 points and 11 rebounds as his team went 30-6 in 1998-99. He also participated in Croatia's junior national program for two years. 

By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Spores Writer 
With the Ohio State Buckeyes' attention focused on Notre Dame's player of the year candidate David Ulrich, two other Irish attackmen exploded for four goals each as Notre Dame defeated Ohio State 13-4. 
Seniors Tom Glatzel and Jon Harvey each scored four goals for the Irish as the seventh­ranked men's lacrosse team got back into the win column in its first Great Western Lacrosse League game of the year. 
Ulrich, however, was not shut down by the Buckeye defense, however. 
The senior from Baltimore 
dished off four assists in the 
win. 
The Irish jumped on the Buckeyes early and never looked back. 
Glatzel and Harvey each scored two goals in the first quarter. 
Juniors Devin Ryan and John Flandina added one each as the Irish entered the sec­ond quarter leading 6-1. 
The Irish attack, however, 
did not let up. 
Harvey scored his third and fourth goals of the afternoon to open the second before 
Flandina scored his second goal off an assist from Glatzel with 8:16 remaining in the quarter. 
Ohio State finally answered the Irish barrage with another goal of its own. John Cummings scored his second goal of the afternoon. . 
Senior Andy Santoriella scored his first goal of the season to close the first half scoring and give the Irish a 10-2 lead heading into half­time. 
The third quarter was scoreless until Glatzel scored two goals in the last four min­utes to push the Irish lead to 10. 
Freshman Mickey Blunt scored the only goal in the fourth quarter for the Irish while the Buckeyes scored two goals of their own in mop­up time. 
Senior goalkeeper Kirk Howell yielded the net t<r sophomore Nick Antol for the last 11 minutes of the game. 
Antol faced five shots and allowed only one goal while Howell stopped nine shots and allowed the other three goals scored. 
. Jury sentences stalker to four years 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 
A man who claimed that 
he fell in love with tennis 
star Martina Hingis and 
followed her to tourna­
ments around the world 
was convicted of stalking 
Tuesday. The man fol­
lowed her despite her 
pleas for him to stop fol­
lowing her. 
Dubravko Rajcevic, a 46­
ye ar-old Croatian-born 
naval architect from 
Australia, was found guilty 
of stalking and three 
counts of trespassing at 
the 2000 Ericsson Open 
near Miami. With the con­
viction he faces up to four 
years in prison. 
Rajcevic initially showed 
no reaction when the ver­
dict was read, then gave a 
half smile. 
After the jury left the 
courtroom, Rajcevic blurt­
ed questions at Miami­
Dade Circuit Judge Kevin 
Emas. 
"Why no black people on 
my jury?" Rajcevic asked. 
"All the black people were 
eliminated from my jury." 
The judge told him to 
discuss that with his 
lawyer, Frank Abrams. 
Emas granted Abrams' 
request for a psychologist 
to visit Rajcevic in jail 
before sentencing on April 
12. 
But Rajcevic said he 
would not cooperate. 
"I don't need that type of help," Rajcevic said. "I need legal help, not psy­chological help." 
Earlier Tuesday, Rajcevic told jurors that he was convinced the 20­year-old Swiss player once loved him. but had probably found someone else while he was detained for the trial. 
"Yes, I believe she was in love with me, but I've been in jail for one year," Rajcevic said. "She's young, beautiful, famous. In one year she's 
probably  found  someone  
else."  
Hingis,  the  top-ranked  

player in the world, was not in the courtroom Tuesday. 
The safety of tennis stars has taken on a higher profile since 1993, when a professed fan of Steffi Graf stabbed Monica Seles during a tour­nament in Germany. 
AFP photo 

Tennis player Martina Hlngls (above) did not appear in court on Tuesday to testify against a man convicted of stalking her at 
v~~f oo~,_,~
I,,,••,., ,. ,., 
The Student Activities 0rfice is now accepting applications f"or student e1nployee positions For the 2001-2002 acade1nic year. 
Possible oositions available:
. 

24 HOUR LOUNGE MONITORS BALLROOM MONITORS INFORMATION DESI( & BOX OFFICE ASSISTANTS LAFORTUNE BUILDING SET UP CREW LAFORTUNE BUILDING MANAGERS ND CAl(E SERVICE ND EXPRESS SOUND TECHNICIANS STE'PAN CENTER MANAGERS STUDENT PROGRAMMERS STUDENT OFFICE ASSISTANTS 
Applications available outside the Student Activities 0fflce, 3 15 laFortune or on-line at www.nd.edursao/rorrns 
APPLICATION DEADLINE IS FRIDAY, APRIL 6. 
~[!li.QW]b~anR1W[iu-~ffii([~~-ttin ~a!'.el! 
• 
We will be at Senior Week signups in April 

• 
Look for us in MCoB on Tuesdays and Wednesdays from 11:00 AM to 1:00 PM 

• 
Meet us in Senior Bar 

• 
We will be at Senior Week Signups (April 1oth)h 



These plaques (Valued at $80.00) are being sold for $45. 


For ordering information and order forms go to http://www.nd.edu/~mgtclub •-----------------------------------------------­
the Ericsson Open. 
Psychologists who evaluat­ed Rajcevic concluded he was delusional but mentally com­petent to stand trial. 
Rajcevic said he fell in love with Hingis after seeing her on television while at home in Australia in 1999, at about the same time he getting a divorce. 
He began sending her faxes and letters expressing his admiration for her and trav­eled to her home to deliver flowers. 
Prosecutor Christopher Calkin said Rajcevic followed Hingis around the world even though she and others repeatedly told him to stop. 
Under the stalking law, 
Clakin said one warning was enough for Rajcevic to be required to stay away, sup­porting the conviction. 
"It certainly does not require somebody to tell someone to stop for over a year," he said. 
Rajcevic said many people close to Hingis told him she didn't want a relationship with him, but he said he never heard that from her. 
Hingis testified just the opposite of Rajcevic's state­ment Monday, saying that she had told him in person and by phone to stay away from her. 
"I told him he should get out of my life, I didn't want to talk with him anymore, I wouldn't want to spend any time with him," Hingis testi­fied about their face-to-face meeting through a fence after the 1999 French Open. 
Defense attorney Frank Abrams defended his client saying that Rajcevic never threatened Hingis and argued that his client was only trying to romance a woman beyond his reach. 
"The pursuit, no matter how implausible, cannot be punished," he said. 

-. 
Wednesday, April 4, 200 I

page 22 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
FORTUNE® 
100 BEST 
COMPANIES§
TOWORKFORN 
FORTUNE. 
2000 

FORTUNE 
10~~~\\ 1999 
~PANIES TO WORK FOR 

History has a way of repeating itself. Pretty cool, huh? 
For three years in a row, we've been named one of the 100 Best Companies To Work For. With real opportunities for leadership and advancement, perhaps you'll want to join us as we go for four. 

Tuesday, April 3, 200 l The Observer . SPORTS page 23 

Duff 
continued from page 28 
mentals better to he a cor­ner." 
He saw his first game time at cornerback Oct. 14 against Navy, but played less than two minutes. When Walton injured his wrist during Notre Dame's win over Rutgers on Nov. 18, Duff stepped in and played 15 minutes at corner recording his first career interception. 
"Unfortunately Shane had to get hurt," Duff said. ''People have times when they have to step in. It felt good to be out thflre and just be a part Open of the team." 
Tryouts

What Duff may be lack­ing in on field . Kickers, experience,
he makes up punters, for in com-snappers 
mitment. 
. Saturday

Although he 
played bas-. 1 p.m. ketball his . Moose Krause junior year of high school, Field 
Duff declined the opportu­nity to play in the Bookstore Basketball tournament this spring. 
"I ain't playing Bookstore," Duff said. "l ain't no basket­ball player. I'm a football player. I came here and that was basically to play football.'' 
Notes: 
. Defensive lineman Ryan Scarola left practice early with an injured knee Tuesday. 
"We were doing field goal protection full speed and he got run into," Davie said. "I don't know how bad that is." 
. Arnaz Battle, switching from quarterback to receiver, is beginning to adjust to the added running involved in his new position. 

''He came out [Tuesday] he was full speed," Davie said. "He struggled a little bit Sunday the day after we prac­ticed. He struggled a little bit [Monday]. But he was able to go full speed at practice today.'' 

WOMEN'S CREW 
Victories bring rowers confidence 
By TODD NIETO 
Sports Writer 
The women's crew team defeated both Michigan State and the University of Dayton this weekend. 
On Saturday, the team raced at Michigan State in the best of three races. Because of ice on Michigan State's 2,000-meter course, the teams competed on a ed a time of 7:18.70, while the second varsity eight crossed the finish at 7:19.70. 
"These wins are a huge confidence booster," said Kiernicki. "Beating Michigan State is huge because it sends a message to other schools.'' 
With such impressive victo­ries this past weekend, it appc ars as if the Irish women's crew team is ready for the San Diego Crew 
1,200-rneter course. 
In the past, Michigan State has been a serious con­tender in women's crew, qualifying for the NCAA championships the past three years. The vic­tory for the Irish is a good omen, as they 
"These wins are a huge confidence booster. Beating Michigan State is huge because it sends a message to other schools." 
Erin Kiernicki 
coxswain 
Classic. T h e f i r s t a n d second varsity teams fly to S a n Diego later in t h e week, while the rest of the 

defeated the Spartans in tho first varsity eights, first novice and second novice eights. 
On Sunday, the team soundly defeated the Dayton Flyers despite a 15 mile per hour headwind and choppy waters. 
"The coxswain had more difficulty steering in the wind," said coxswain Erin Kiernicki. "But the team pushed through the difficult conditions and prevailed." 
The Irish varsity eight post-team heads to Des Moines, Iowa to compete against Drake and the Wisconsin Lightweights. 
"In San Diego we are going to look for our strong and weak points and determine how we fare against other teams," Kiernicki said. 
The San Diego Crew Classic is an especially important event for the team, giving the Irish the opportunity to race against the teams that will most likely contend in the NCAA Championships. 

Point . 
•
IC
C 

Get tickets. 
It's that easy. 
Check out The Observer's online classifieds at http://observer.nd.edu for tickets. 

page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 4, 2001 
SOFTBALL 
Saint Mary's aims for important wins 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Saint Mary's softball team is hoping that April showers will bring two MIAA wins to add to Saturday's rainy day victory over Adrian College. 
The Belles (9-8) are coming (Jfl' of a weekend split with the Bulldogs that left them with a 1-1 MIAA record. They look !'or another win today as they face off against Albion College in a double­header. 
"We played really well on Saturday despite the fact that we split. We want to 
keep that "We need to play every They will up," snnior be work­
single pitch and know

pitcher Anne ing on 
Sengflr said. exactly what we're doing 
staying fo­"JI' we can every single time the bat cused to win a bunch prevent an
hits the ball. " 

of these inning like [early sea­that today. son I games Anne Senger w e
n 

bel'ore we pitcher need to 
play llopc and Alma, which are the power houses, then we'll be in good shape." 
If the Belles come home from both games victorious, they will carry a 3-1 MIAA record that should place them near the top of rank­ings littered with teams that have faced little or no MIAA competition. 
Albion (13-9). who finished third in the MIAA last year with an 8-6 record, opens their MIAA season against Saint Mary's. 
Junior Kristin Martin will be on the mound for the Belles at 3 p.m.• looking for her first MIAA victory of the season. She gave up three 
earned  runs  in  her  first  
MIAA  start  on  Saturday  
against Adrian.  

Senger will take the mound in the nightcap of the double header. Senger enters the game with a strong 1.16 ERA after giving up only one run during her six innings of work on Saturday. 
Martin and Senger will have to shut down a strong Albion hitting team, led by Sarah Prues. The junior out­fielder is batting .375 with 12 RBIs. Her 18-48 record includes five doubles and two triples. Joining Prucs on the Briton offensive will be seniors Treasa Gourlay, who is leads the Britons in batting average at .386, and Darcy Stewart. who has hit seven doubles thus far. 
"[Albion} has always been pretty decent," Senger said. "Defensively they aren't any­thing special. but they're usually pretty decent hitters so we need to bo tough defensively." 
During Saturday's early loss to Adrian, the Belles gave up six runs during the t h i r d inning. 
play every 
single pitch and know exactly what we're doing every single time the bat hits the ball," Senger said. "We need to communi­cate on and off the field and not get down on ourselves when we make mistakes." 
Saint Mary's hitters will likely be facing off against Adrian's star pitcher, Alana Heikkinen. Heikkinen, who has only lost three games in 14 decisions, sports an ERA of 1.41. 
She earned a win in a game against Blufton College this weekend, but dropped her second game of the dou­ble header, bringing her record to 11-3. 
Following a strong hitting weekend, the Belles are con­fident that their sluggers can get the job done. 
"We hit exceptionally well so we want to be as strong as we possibly can," Senger said. 
The first game of the dou­ble headers starts at 3 p.m. on the softball field. The sec­ond game will begin around 6 p.m. -15 minutes after the end of the first game. 


Errors 
continued from page 28 
increased their lead in the fifth 
inning with a double by short­
stop Paul Henry, who then 
advanced to third on rightfield­
er Brian Stavisky's misplay. 
Henry scored on a groundout 
by second baseman Matt 
Wood. 
Once again the Irish cut into 

the lead in the bottom half' of 
the inning when Sollmann sin­
gled, stoic second and later 
scored on Stavisky's hit to cen­
ter field. 
After Ball State picked up another run in the sixth, Notre Dame attempted to seize the lead. With the bases loaded and two outs. Sollmann got an RBI walk. That would be all of the scoring, however, as senior Alec Porzel grounded out to end the threat. 
After the game, Mainieri gave credit to the Ball State team. 
"We expected a tough game against these guys, and they came out here and outplayed us to earn tho win," he said. 
With the Irish currently hold­ing the highest rankings ever by a Notre Dame baseball team -sixth, seventh and eighth in the three major polls -a mid­week loss to a non-conference opponent can be hard to swal­low, but Mainieri is confident his team will move on. 
"We're looking forward to playing again tomorrow so we can get everything right back on track," he said. "You've really got to play each game like a separate part of the sea­son and not let what you do on other days affect you." 
The Irish will be looking to bounce back against Dayton (10-12) today at 5:05 p.m. at Frank Eck Stadium, before returning to Big East play this weekend at Rutgers. 

2001 Arts & Letters Departmental Follow-up Sessions 
As a follow-up to the Majors & Programs Fair, the departments listed below are holding informational meetings for prospective majors. If you are thinking ofmajoring in one of these departments, please make every effort to attend. 
Congratulations 
I 
ND WOMEN 
NCAA CHAMPS 
TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
The Students' I'' choice in Off-Campus Housing 
272-8124 
Monday, April 2 
CAPP 6:00 -7:00 DeBartolo. Room 209 
Wednesday, April 4 
Hesburgh Concentrators 
7:00 p.m. O'Shaughnessy, Room 339 
Thursday, April 5: 
Sociology Pizza Party 4:00 -5:30 PM 824 Flanner Hall 

Wednesday, April 4, 2001 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 25 
THE GOOD LIFE AT A GREAT PRICE. GUARANTEED:m 

CongratulationsNotre Dame® Fighting Irish™ 
Come to Sears Friday and Saturday and have your free picture taken with the Sears/WBCA Women's National Champion Basketball Trophy. 
• University Park Shopping Center, Mishawaka Friday, April 6, 5-8pm Saturday, April 7, 11 am-2pm 
Times and dates subject to change. One photo per customer. Photos limited to the first 500 customers each day. 
Celebrate the 
Fighting Irish™ National 
Championship with Sears 
exclusive National Champion Basketball Trophy t-shirt -also available at Wishbook.com 
mm 

Wednesday, April 4, 2001 
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Confident Belles look to serve up conference victory 
r 
not stronger than last interested as junior Annie By JENNIFER BARTALINO year." Knish takes on Tracy Gray Sports Wriccc Last year the Belles in No. 1 singles and Cook 
KATIE McVOY 
soundly defeated the opposes Amiee Greene in Associate Sports Editor 
Britons 6-3 and finished No. 2 singles. 
above fourth place Albion "The No.1 and No. 2 
After last Saturday's in the final MIAA stand­spots are pretty tough," wins against Adrian ings. Although the Belles Cook said and she is hop­College and Aquinas are working on perfecting ing to repeat last year's College, the Saint Mary's their strokes, mental No.l singles victory. tennis team is hot on the prowess will be the decid­The Belles will also hit trail ol' another victory. ing factor the road 
This afternoon at 3 in this t h i s p.m., the Belles face off contest. 'This match is going to Thurs­against the Britons of "This day to
come down to mental 
Albion College in a home match is f a c e
toughness. Ifwe think we
match. This will be the going to another Belles' second MIAA c o m e can do it. we can win. " tough match or the season and down to competi­confidence is high. mental tor, Hope
Natalie Cook 
"I would definitely say tough­College. that we're pretty confi­ness, " captain Today's dent for this match," C o o k results senior co-captain Natalie said. "If will give 
Cook said. we think we can do it, them a good idea of what 
The team is especially then we can win." lies in store for them. anxious to see how they'll Mental power may be Freshmen Jeannie Knish, fare today. knowing that key, but a friendly crowd Katilin Cutler and Kris AIWon is scheduled as one and some friendly weath­Spriggle will be stepping of their main competitors er will play their roles as in at No. 3. No. 4 and No. at the MIAA well. The tennis team is 5 singles and sophomore Championships. Albion is sure to attract students Elisa Ryan will wrap up coming off a conference and family and the weath­with No. 6 singles. victory against Kalamazoo er man has promised sun Cook and Annie Knish that followed the Briton and warm temperatures. will team up for No. 1 defeat of the Knights of "It helps to see the doubles, joined by the Calvin College. familiar faces and know teams of Jeannie Knish 
"The only thing that has that they're on your side," and Cutler and Ryan and wavered our confidence is Cook said. "And the nice Trisha Jones at the 2 and that (Albion] beat Calvin weather makes you want 3 spots. and we lost to them last to be out there." The match will begin at year," Cook said. "But our No. 1 and No. 2 singles 3 p.m. today outside team is just as strong if promise to keep the crowd Angela Athletic Facility. 




P~OVOST'S DISTJNc;UISHED '-vOMEN LECTU ~E SE~I ES 
-P-U·B-(A .c~~G0E-C.-it0-IZE·:-~

,.  ________  ,.,.,._...,_  .....  
TH E  J O'y'S  O  F  ~ A  1 D E 1'-1 H  o o D :  
vv' o  ~  EN AN D  SON G  I N  LATE  )'-......,.,{ E D I E '../A  L  EN G LAN D  
7:3 0  P J-,.......-i  
vv'E ON ES DAY, AP R...1 L  4,  2001  
J-,.......-i ONT~ O l'v\ E R..Y TH EAT R..E  
LA FOR..TUN E  STUD ENT  CENTER..  

~ E-"Ai-o 'E-R-2 ~ ·s"t' (fD-1-E 5---F·0-R..:.O ·M-:~­
~ ---.. -... .. ---... ---~ . ~ --. -,. .. ~-... .. --.. 
B E l ~ G A L ~ o 5T T H E RE ... 
THAT IL BEl..,...__.JG A \A/O~Ar--.J Ar--.JD LE5BIA)'--...J I N .ACA D E. )--,.._.,{ E 
12:30 p~ T H LJ f<-S O A Y, A P R-..1 L 5, 2 0 0 1 11 9 0 ' SH),.... U c.; H N ES SY 


JUD TTH ~~ BENN·E-TT 
. .. ",·,:1) 
FRAN Cl S S'T'-..../ART:i.CHAPI_~, JR-TE R~ PROFESSOR '-.rt,.J l'vE RSttY OF N o·~_Tlj~;'cARo,~\NA 

I 
~-.-,.,~.•~t/ 
,:_ -~~f·. 
S'T....___,D E)--._JTS Ar--.J D FAC\....JLTY fN,VITED TO ATTEND 

Wednesday, April 4, 2001 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON tell him or her how you feel. If you
ACROSS 32 Back from 60 Statement of 
TIIIS DAY: Maya Angelou, Robert let your anger brew, it will lead to
dreamland the obvious 1 Pocahontas's 

Downey Jr., Craig T. Nelson, irreconcilable differences. 00 
husband 37 above 64 Emulate 
Anthony Perkins, Yasser Arafat, VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 6 Invitation to 38 "Alfred" Prometheus? 
David E. Kelley, OuistineLahti You will be in an entertaining duel, perhaps composer 67 Veep John _ Happy Birthday: You'll be mood. Your partner may be Gamer powerful this year if you focus on embarrassed by your actions. Be
40 Cameos, e.g.

10 Close to closed 
the important projects that will prepared to bend if your mate is
68 Word processor 41 Marine creatures

14 Intense hatred bring the highest returns. Your upset.0000
command

15 Tabula with unneeded energy and determination will be LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): limbs? 69 Custard a magnet, and with the support Don't offer to pay for others. Your 
16 Ankle-length 
44 Masked critters concoction you'll receive you should have no good nature and desire to keepskirt 70"_Mamer" problem completing what you things harmonious will result in
45 L.B.J. son-in-law 

17 Nearing the start. You will face challenges your being taken for granted.
71 Scraped (out) 

hour 46 Barrie pirate head-on, leaving absolutely noth­Empty promises are likely. 000 
72 Itches

47 Buchholz of ing to chance. You will play to SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
18 James Bond 
"The Magnificent 73 Winter Palace win, and win you shall. Your You will feel anxious if youbeauties? 
residents numbers: 12, 15, 17, 26, 33, 39 believe your mate hasn't been 20 Titan orbits it ARIES (March 21-April 19): honest with you. You need to con­
Seven• 
48 H.S.T.'s 

Your emotions will get the better trol your temper and deal with the 
22 St._ (spring successor DOWN 
of you if you've been extravagant situation rationally if you want to
break spot) 
49 Kickoff preceder 1 Goes bad or ifyou've let others take you for salvage the relationship. 00 23 Drop in on a ride emotionally or financially. SAGfITARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21):
50 Absorbed, as a 2 Concert halls 

Get rid of bad habits and bad Your need to learn will lead you 
24 Bar choices loss 3 Suit jacket 
acquaintances. 000 into strange topics of conversa­
26 Feather's mate 53 Part of UHF: buildup 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): tion. Don't hesitate to come right 27 Where to order Abbr. 4 2004 Olympics Your home environment will be out and ask for the pertinent inhlr­unthe 55 Pole worker stars? unstable. Don't push your luck mation if you are questioning a 
5 Atlanta with loved ones. If you over­concept or principle. 0000
30 Luau staple 58 Kind of stand university 
spend to lift your spirits, you will CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan.19): pay the consequences later on. Your bills may be strangling you 
6 A.A.RP. 

Arguments are brewing. 00 right now. Talk to someone in the 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
members 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): family who can help or at least 7 Reindeer herder '!,,Puzz1e~...,by,.....-,!Ka,-,.-n.H'""oc1ge.,... Ask a close friend for his or her give you some legitimate solutions 
OM 
opinion regarding a personal to your financial worries. 000
8 So far 31 _ we trust 54 Surrealist Max 62 Permanent 

problem you have. Relatives may AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):
9 Elbows, but not 33 Least desirable 55 In _ (actually) marker? 

cause a fuss if they feel that you Don't let innuendoes result in you 
knees wharves? 

56 Security lapse 63 Quantico haven't been fair to someone they doing or saying something that 10 Homer's last 34 Something to care about. 000 you'll regret later on. Depression
cuisine
57 Half a sawbuck

words remember? CANCER (June 21-July 22): will follow if you handle the situ­59 OPEC member 65 Zodiac's start. in Elders may put unwarranted ation badly. Just concentrate on
11 Shakes up 35 "Dinner at 

England demands on you. Try to calm your goals and don't argue. 00
61 "To Live and Die 
12 Linchpin's place Antoine's" author 

. them down and offer sugges­PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
66 U.S.N.A. grad

13 Court order? 36 They're common tions; however, explain that it Attractions to clients or individu­will take a bit of time to make als you work with will be entic­
19 Actor Depardieu in Mississippi -------------­

these changes for them. 000 ing. Use your head and be careful 
21 Sherpa's home 39 Treble clef lines Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You'll not to endanger your profession­
25 More tender 42 What you will are available by touch-tone phone: 

be uptight if your mate tries to cur­al position for the sake of a pas­Z1 Come down with 43 Thumb-raising 1·900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). tail your freedom. Be upfront and sionate affair. 000 
28 Allergy season critic Annual subscriptions are available for the 

Birthday Baby: You will be quick to make a move and eager to
sound 51 Chewy candy best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 

get involved in everything that interests you. You have staying
29 Uproar 52 Send to Siberia years: 1-888•7-ACROSS. 

power and the ability to get others to follow your lead. Yo~ are dynamic, caring and stable. (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialastcom, astromate.com.) 
© 2001 Universal Press Syndicate 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

------------~----------------------------------------------------------~-­
TOM KEELEY

FOURTH AND INCHES 
PVRWE STUl)ENTS 
CIUTICIZE AN OVERLY t>lFr.tCUL T 
CROSSWORO PUZZLE 
BILL AMEND

Fox TROT 
6UESS WHo C,oT  I'M So PROUD!  I.ET ME BAl<E  I CAN'T  
A. PERFECT GRA.DE ON TI-IE.tR MATH ST.  PAIGE, THAT'S  SEE? At.L Tl-IA.T STUD'YING PAID OFF~  YoU SOME COOICIES To El.ESRATE! I  HELP IT IF SHE &vESSED WRONG.  IT WAS Mi,  

WONDER­\ MoM! FUi.. 
f
' 
-~ 
TUER

THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 


:r. to\d 1.jOU t'r\~ 
o.re et:1<1)1vor(.6. 
\ 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester Name _____________________ Address City ________ State ____ Zip______ 


Serving up excitement 

The Saint Mary's Tennis team looks to claim another MIM victory as it faces offagainst the Britons ofAlbion today out­side ofAngela Athletic facility. 
PORTS 

page 26 
O
THE page 28 BSERVER Wednesday, April 4, 2001 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Kartelo plans to transfer at end of semester 

By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Senior Staff Wricer 
Sophomore center lvan Kartelo told The Observer Tuesday he plans to Lransfer from Notre Dame at the end of the school year. 
"I didn't feel happy playing basket­ball," '-'.a.rtelo said confirming rumors that had been swirling since late this SP.ason. 
Kartelo, a 6-foot-11 reserve, saw his minutes dwindle this year. The Croatian native played more than 13 minutes per game as a freshman l.leneaLh former head coach Matt Doherty, but that number dropped to just 5 1/2 minutes this season playing for coach Mike Brey. 
"I started thinking about it back during Christmas break," Kartelo said. "I thought it was going to get better." 
Things didn't improve for Kartelo, however. Ile missed a month of play due to a sprained ankle and never made it into Brey's basic six-man rotation. He played in just 16 games this season after seeing action in all 37 contests as a freshman. 
In upcoming weeks, Kartelo plans to visit several Big 10 schools, and will likely transfer to Northwestern, Purdue, Wisconsin or Illinois. 
"Wherever I go, I think l'm going to play," Kartelo said. "They're not going to bring me to sit on the bench.» 
In addition to playing time, location will factor into Kartelo's school choice. He hopes to remain near South Bend so he can make return visits to see friends at Notre Dame. 
Talk has also arisen that fellow Croatian basketball player Jere Macura may transfer at the year's end, but Macura has not announced 
see KARTELO/page 21 

LIZ LANGrThe Observer 
Sophomore Ivan Kartelo blocks a shot during a game against Conneticut last season. Kartelo plans to leave the Irish at the end of the year to play basketball elsewhere. 
BASEBALL 
Cardinals take advantage of Irish errors 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Spores Writer 
So far this year, the Irish baseball team has not often been an offen­sive powerhouse. rely­ing instead on out­standing pitching and solid defense to win ballgames. 
Last night for the first time, the defense failed to show up for the Irish, leading to a tough 4-3 loss to the Ball State Cardinals. 
Two errors and a few misplayed balls negated another strong outing from pitcher Peter Ogil­vie (2-l), who picked up his first loss of the year. The sophomore pitched six innings and gave up eight hits and four runs, only two of which were earned. 
"Our defense !et us down a little bit tonight," said coach Paul Mainieri after the game. "We've played well defensively all year, but the two errors tonight were costly." 
The Irish bats, which were red-hot against Seton Hall over the weekend, were still productive against the Cardinals. Notre Dame actually out-hit its opponent 12-11, but had trouble knocking in runs by leaving 13 men on base. 
"We were a little slop­py tonight at the plate," said Mainieri. "We missed some signals and failed to execute on bunts and hit-and-runs. We just played a sloppy ballgame on both sides." 
Ball State struck first in the third inning when catcher Doug Boone led off with a single. With one out, the Cardinals strung together three consecu­tive singles that moved two runs across the plate. Ogilvie was able to end the inning by striking out Ball State designated hitter Aaron Zehnal. 

Notre Dame struck back in the bottom of the inning with back-to­back singles by center­fielder Steve Stanley and second baseman Steve Sollmann, who went 2-3 to raise his team-leading average to .429. Stanley then stole third and was able to score on an error by the Ball State catcher. 
The Cardinals 
see ERRORS/page 24 
FOOTBALL 
Duff's 
work01ay earn start 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Sporn Editor 
Hard work. 
That is the key for Irish ris­ing sophomore Vontez Duff this spring. With the departure of senior Brock Williams, who has declared himself eligible for the NFL draft, Duff is one of the leading contenders for tho vacated corncrback spot alongside rising senior Shane Walton. 
"He's athletic and he's a raw talent that I think works hard and has a great attitude," Irish head coach Bob Davie said of Duff, who also ran track in high school, posting a time of 
10.5 seconds in the 100-meter dash and clearing 23 feet in the long jump. 
Still, Davie is far from con­ceding that the job is Duffs to lose. 
"He hasn't done anything on the field that says, 'wow, we've got ourselves a corner that's just going to jump out there next year and be an all­star,"' Davie said. 
So much hard work is expected from the 5-foot-10, 175-pounder because the entire concept of playing defense is new to him. In high school, Duff earned The Sporting News No. 12 ranking among top college prospects after carrying for 1,145 yards and scoring 14 touchdowns as a senior. He even threw for two touchdowns out of the backfield. 
"It's just how our offense was," Duff said of his years at Copperas Grove High School in Copperas Grove, Texas. "It's just very multiple offense. It's just something I did to make the team a better team." 
When he arrived at Notre Dame, Duff was moved to spe­cial teams and defensive back. The freshman appeared in all 11 games last fall -almost entirely on special teams, a role that he feels prepared him for his role on defense this coming season. 
"Special teams helped me out a lot," Duff said. "It gave me a little experience just get­ting on the field and getting that game time. That just made me_ work my technique better and work my funda­
see DUFF/page 23 

--·---~-­
Softball

Tennis at Baylor 
vs. Albion 

~· vs. Albion Friday, 9 p.m.
SPORTS 
Today, 3 p.m.
Today, 3 p.m. 
ATA 
Baseball 
Men's Lacrosse 
at Indiana 
vs. Dayton 
vs. Denver
\;;_) Today, 3 p.m. 
GLANCE ~-Today, 5 p.m. 

Saturday, 4:30 p.m. 






