
25th annual Keenan Revue 
Looking for leadership
The Revue opens tonight for the 25th time. 
The Nagle/Matha ticket has a solid platform. 

Thursday
under close scrutiny in Saint Mary's 
but lacks definitive stances on critical 
O'laughlin Auditorium. 
campus issues. 
FEBRUARY 1,
pages 6 &14 
Editorial . page 10 
2001 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 78 


Pax Christi opens talks with ROTC 
Editor's note: This is the third in a three-part series looking at the discussion concerning the place ofROTC at a Catholic uni­ven;ity. 
• Pacifist club attempts to open dialogue with ROTC 

By TIM LOGAN 
S,nior Staff Writer 
Over the last two years, Pax Christi has beat a steady drum against the presence of ROTC at Notre Dame. The Reserve Officer Training Corps isn't leaving any time soon, but Pax Christi, through a persistent and concerted effort to reach out to the very students whose organization they oppose, has started a dialogue that is help-made some excuse about how I was taking a War, Law ing people on all sides to understand each other's per­and Ethics class, and he just cut me off and said 'youspective, and keeping the issue on the front burner of just need three people: two to hold a banner and onecampus debate. 

to pass out flyers."' 

It began again one day in September 1998, when Before they finished talking,Sheila McCarthy went to a lec-Cordaro had convincedture. McCarthy, then a sopho­McCarthy to do something, andmore theology major, was he made her follow up. Theinterested to hear what Father priest put the sophomore on
Frank Cordaro had to say. Cordaro is a pacifist and self­
the spot, asking her to stand avowed Catholic radical who, a and invite the small audience to 
a protest against ROTC.
few months earlier, had been The next day, McCarthy andarrested for pouring a vial of two others stood in the rainhis own blood on a B-52 outside the Pasquerilia Center, bomber at an air show. Sheila where the military training
had heard about the 
program is headquartered. The Plowshares Movement, as Cordaro's group was called, three held signs and prayed the Rosary, but they didand was intrigued. So she went to meet him. 

not get much response. 

Before the lecture, Cordaro and Sheila talked, and "It was exciting," said Mike Griffin, a seminarian
the activist had a question for the student. "'Well, why arcn't you doing anything about ROTC on campus,"' Sheila recalled. "He was very direct. I see ROTC /page 4 


HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

Murphy succuDlbs to leukeDtia 
. Friends and family mourn the death of Notre Dame student Conor Murphy 
By FINN PRESSLY Senior Scaff Writer 

With family and friends at his bedside, Notre Dame junior Conor Murphy passed away Wednesday at 8:30 
a.m. following a year of intensive treatment for leukemia. 
The Notre Dame community joined together in prayer Tuesday with a special Mass in Zahm Hall to bring together those on campus touched by Murphy. In preparation for his bone marrow transplant last April, a campus-wide . bone marrow drive attracted hun­dreds of students. 
The response from the Notre Dame community has overwhelmed the Murphy family, and has reaffirmed their faith in the spirit of family here, according to Father Jim Lies, a for­mer rector of Zahm Hall who kept in close contact with Conor and the Murphy family during his illness. 
"When [Conor's mother] came to Freshman Orientation at Notre Dame, she was a little skeptical of all the talk about the Notre Dame family," said Lies. "But she said that in the last year she has come to know what that means, and values it nearly as much as her own family." 
"I think they will always take pride that Conor went to Notre Dame and met so many fine people there," he said. "They will always be incredibly grateful for all that Notre Dame has done for him and all that they have done for the family." 
The Zahm Hall community in particular has been pro­foundly affected by him, according to current rector Father Tom Bednar. 
"Zahm has a great spirit of brotherhood, and there's sense of the loss of a brother," he said. "But the same time, there's a pride in being able to comfort each other 

see CONOR/page 9 
==========================================================================================================================:;..... 

Nagle, Matha run unopposed on SMC presidential ticket 
By KATIE MILLER News Writer  whelming interest in last year's election. Both Matha and Nagle are  attended the informational meeting mandatory to declare candidacy in November, but  dent, Renner suggested. Another factor could be time. "A lot of people are happy  "We still need to rally the stu­dent body," said Matha. Both Nagle and Matha will  
concerned that the uncontested  only Nagle/Matha chose to run.  with [Nagle]. but people do  admit that more than one ticket  
Current student body presi­ ticket could deter students from  One  ticket  enjoy  fresh  would be in the best interests of  
dential candidate Michelle Nagle almost didn't run for  coming to the polls Monday, and are adamant that the stu­ decided run  to in  "This is a very humbling  faces, it's hard to say," said  the school. and will aim to incorporate more student opin­ 
office. But it's a good thing she did. Running uncontested with runningmale Kristen Matha, t h e Nagle/Matha See Also ticket marks one of the "SMC Platform" only times in page 8 Saint Mary's history that a  dent body sti-11 has a choice to make. ''We're very passionate about student government; if students don't support us r'd hope they would vote and abstain," Nagle said. Should more students opt to· abstain and keep Nagle/Matha from securing a majority of the student body vote Monday, the  senior class elections instead, according to student body presi­dent Crissie Renner. The other ticket simply took o t h e r  experience; this is not how I wanted to come into office." Michelle Nagle student body presidential candidate  Renner. "It's a very demand­ing position." Campaigning tactics haven't changed for the unopposed duo, who are attacking the campaign as if they were run­ ion into how they run their administration if they secure office Monday. "I think its unfortunate for the student body," said Nagle. "This is a very humbling expe­rience; this is not how I wanted to come into office. We'll make a point to say to the tickets that didn't run, 'What would you have done?"'  
presidential  election would result in a vote  avenues of  ning  against  Some believe that student  
ticket will run  of no confidence, and the elec­ getting  involved  at  Saint  other tickets. In their minds,  apathy is the  reason there is  
for office without opposition. Following an election debacle  tion process would start over again.  Mary's. Renner  can't  completely  the race is against losing their potential seats in Board of  only one ticket. After four tick­ets ran for office last year,  
last year that witnessed four tickets vying for government  The election process didn't start off with only one ticket  explain why there is only one ticket running. Part could be  Governance to abstentions. "Nothing's changed," said  resulting in the first-ever tie in Saint Mary's history, many are  
seats, this year's election is a  interested in declaring candida­ voters' satisfaction with Nagle,  Nagle. "We're running against  
stark contrast to  the  over­ cy,  however. Three tickets  current student body vice presi­ abstentions."  see UNOPPOSED /page 8  

Thursday, February 1, 2001
page2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 


Finding the words 
I can't pray anymore. 

It's not that I don't try. I've sat in church. I've kneeled at the Grotto. I've laid in bed. But the words don't come. My heart is empty. 
Three and a half months ago, one of my best friends from high school 
was killed in a car accident. During Christmas break, I visited his parents several times, took his younger sis­ter out to dinner, and visited Adam's grave three times. 
I longed for Notre Dame, where I could lose myself in work and friends -and for­

get. I tried to pray at home, 
Laura Rompf
but I couldn't. I went to Mass only once over break. on Christmas, and felt hypo­
Assistant
critical. How could I be 
News Editor 
there, praying to a God, I thought might not exist? 
La.st night, I went to Mass for Conor. I thought back to freshman year when he came to an SYR with my friend Mary. I remembered when he and his friends would come over on Wednesday nights to watch Party of Five. They would complain about little Owen and his stupid, whiney character. Conor had a wonderful sense of humor. 
In Zahm's chapel, I watched Conor's best friends sitting in the pews, receiving communion, and quietly sobbing to themselves. I could see how much they missed him. I thought of Adam and what it felt like to be them. I tried to pray. But I couldn't. My heart was empty. 
I had a conversation with Adam's dad over Christmas. He said to me. "Life is a trial. God keeps knocking you down, and you just have to have faith through the entire thing, and know in the end, it will be worth it" 
Then he said something that rings in my ears to this day: "I prayed every time Adam walked out the door, that God would keep him safe. What good did that do? I just don't know how to pray anymore." 
Last night, I wished for a miracle. I tried pray­ing that Conor would live, so his friends would not have to go through the pain, the hopeless­ness, the depression. But like Adam's dad's prayer, mine went unanswered. 
When I heard Conor passed away, I immedi­ately went to the Grotto, lit a candle and kneeled. Once again. I tried to pray, but I couldn't. My heart was still empty. 
I hope someday my faith will return, my heart will feel peace, and I will pray. If you're lucky, if your heart has not been hardened, and ifyou can find the words -please PRAY. 
Pray for Conor's mother and father. 
Pray for his sisters. 
Pray for his friends. 
Pray for Meghan. 

If my experience rings true, they might have a hard tµne praying this weekend. 
When I returned from the Grotto, I sat down at my desk to write my mother an email. My little calendar with daily advice had fallen and was flipped open to Nov. 12. It said, "God under­stands our prayers even when we can't find the words to say them." 
Tears flowed down my cheeks. It was the little sign I needed to know God is here. 
So please. pray to Him, for all ofus who can't. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Kate Nagengast Pat Otlewski Kelly Hager Graphics Courtney Boyle Jose Cuellar 
Sports Production 
Kerry Smith Jeff Balrruzak Viewpoint Lab Tech 
Matt Nania Molly Walsh 
Th, Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Fridoy except during exam and vac.ation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All tcproduclion rights.arc reserved. 
TEXAS A&M UNIVERSITY 
Off-campus bonfire group disbands 
Facing mounting bills, lack of support and a few regrets, Keep the Fire Burning (KTFB) will disband at its next meeting in March, said board member Joe Dyson. The group, which canceled its plans to build an off-cam­pus bonfire last fall, has returned donations to contribu­tors, will close out its bank account and will remove itself from the-state's list of nonprofit organizations. "We're trying to end this quietly -hopefully no damage was done," said Dyson. KTFB was originally formed in defiance of the two-year hiatus imposed on Bonfire after the 1999 Aggie Bonfire collapse. The organization claimed the support of thousands of students and alumni in its effort to build an off-campus bonfire against the wishes of university administration. However, a lack of funding for safety insurance ended the plan. "People have a big misconception that we had money," Dyson said. "In reality, there wasn't enough interest to have enough money. What we probably should have done is called for an end -the stack we saw before it fell in '99 was the last Bonfire we're going to see." 
Thursday  Friday  Saturday  Sunday  
. Performance: "Keenan  . Performance: "Keenan  . Comedy Night: "They're  . French Film Festival:  
Review 25th Anniversary  Review 25th Anniversary  .Back for More,"2nd annu­ "Rosetta," 2 p.m.,  
Spectacular," 7:30 p.m..  Spectacular," 7:30 p.m.,  al Multicultural Comedy  Annenburg Auditorium  
O'Laughlin Auditorium  O'Laughlin Auditorium  Night, 8 p.m.. Reckers  . Faculty Recital: Sonja  
. Event: "Meet the  . Film: "American  . Event: Harlem  Mihelcic, mezzo soprano,  
Candidates," 7 p.m.,  Psycho," 7:30 p.m..  Globetrotters, 7:30 p.m.,  and Jeffrey Jacob, piano;  
Haggar College Center,  Annenburg Auditorium  tickets available at ND  Little Theater, Moreau  
Saint Mary's  ticket office, JACC  Center, Saint Mary's  
OUTSIDE THE DOME  Compiled from U-Wire reports  



Yale health services to offer RU-486 

Via Msociatnd ftlrt,ss Gf111'hicst./el Houston 57 42 Philadelphia 41 28 Washington DC 38 48 
PROVIDENCE 

In a controversial move, Yale University announced this month that it plans to offer the abortion pill RU­486 under its standard health plan. 
The new abortion drug, also known as mifeprex, induces a miscarriage when taken in the first seven weeks of pregnancy. 
Yale University Health Services already offers the "morning after" pill and offers surgical abortions under its health plan for students and staff. 
Some students and activist groups like the Yale Pro-Life league have already complained that RU-486 should not be offered through the University's health plan. which draws funds from student tuition. 
Yale spokesman Thomas Conroy dismissed these concerns as unrealis­burdened," Conroy added. 
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved RU-486 ­available only by prescription -in September because it is thought to be safer than surgical abortions. The drug has been available in Europe since 1988. 
Other schools will soon be offering the drug to students. Harvard will reimburse students who receive the abortion drug at local hospitals, according to the Chronicle of Higher Education. Also, Brown will continue to facilitate making appointments for students seeking an abortion and pro­vide counseling both before and after the procedure. 
Conroy said Yale has all the neces­sary resources to carry out its proce­dures safely. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AcruWeather ftrecast fa daytim:: cooditions and high tenµ,rollllres 

................. ~ 
C 2001 AccuWeatller, Inc. COW WARM STATIONARY PrN1un: 
),i.J..: 
~111•/wv•.
. 
.

® © . . . D G2J D f J· -~·<fil~-' 
Hl51h Low Showers Roln T-storm• Flurrlff Snow k;e Sunny Pt Cloudy Cloud 
4~-~9.GQ (f ~ u 
Sl'IOWers T-storms Rain Rutrias Sncw lee Sunny Pr. Cloudy Cloudy Chicago 32 24 New York 44 30 Tampa 76 54 
i . 

' . ( f 
. . 

iillliil . 

tic, stating "health insurance patients who are receiving care through a health facility through an in~urance plan do not pick and choose which services are available from that provider." 
"A male patient is never going to need the services of the obstetrics and gynecology ... but that's the whole phi­losophy of insurance -that the group supports it so that no single person is 
UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 
Student's death brings concern 
University of Southern California freshman Jared Chesser died Monday night at Good Samaritan Hospital from what may have been meningitis, said Michael Jackson, vice president of Student Affairs. Chesser was admitted to the hospital Monday evening and died shortly thereafter. Hospital offi­cials, however, were unable to release the exact time or cause of death. Even the thought that Chesser's death may have been from meningitis has many stu­dents concerned, but university officials are calling for students to remain calm, saying there is no immi­nent threat of a meningitis outbreak. "At the moment, there isn't an epidemic," said Student Health Center Director Larry Neinstein. In fact, Chesser may not even have died from meningitis. The actual cause of death may not be clear for a week, Neinstein said. Nonetheless. Jackson said Chesser showed some symptoms of the brain disease that afflicts slightly fewer than 100 college students per year and kills a small percentage of them. 

Thursday, February I, 200I The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Hesburgh travels 
Malloy announces new committee 
' Co-sponsored by the Mendoza College or Business & the PricewoterhouseCoopers Foundation 
All Lectures hekJ from 10:35am-12:05pm Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business 


. The University creates a new committee to address academic and student life 
By JASON McFARLEY 
Assistant News Editor 
University President Father Edward Malloy recently announced the nine appointed and elected representatives who will head up the new Academic and Student Life 
Advisory Committee (ASL.AC). 
ASL/\C members include Notre Dame students. faculty and staff members. University provost Nathan Hatch and vice president for student affairs Father Mark Poorman serve as co-chairs for the committee. 
Tho ASI.AC was established by Malloy in the fall at the rec­ommendation of the University's Ad lloc Committee on Academics and Student Life. Some members have held their positions on the ASLAC since late last semester. 
According to Sister Pat Thomas. the new body will con­tinue exploring the relationship between academics and stu­dent life on campus. 
"These are two parts of [the students'] world that really do belong together. They don't have to be separate," said the Walsh Hall rectrcss, who was elected by her colleagues to a three-year term on the commit­
tee. 
Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 
St. !Edwanf s '][a{{ P(ayers Presents: 

9l P(ay 6y Pau( 'Rudnick 
Virected6y:John Scfiirano 'Feb. 1-3 1ao, Washington '1-lalT 'Tickets are $5 On sale in £.afFortune 'Box Cffice 
Junior Holt Zeidler and sophomore Phil Slonkosky believe working on the ASIAC will provide an opportunity for different segments of the cam­pus community to communi­cate with each other. 
They said the committee will effectively bring together views from students, faculty and administrators. 
Both Zeidler and Slonkosky think their primary function on the committee is to represent student concerns. 
"I hope to be representative of any concerns that students 
may have," s a i d Slonkosky, who was appointed by Malloy to a year-long term on the ASI..AC. 
Zeidler, who was elected by the Hall Presidents Council to a 

one-year term, noted several issues he plans to highlight once the committee's work begins. 
One of his concerns involves improving the on-campus scene for students inclined to venture off campus on weekends. 
"We need to look at ways to integrate off-campus activities on campus," he said. 
Zeidler also hopes to make job fairs and Career Center endeavors more effective, pos­sibly by utilizing Notre Dame 
-Our-of-Print .fCal'Ch service -Appmisal, larae and small 
Open noon to six 
''These are two parts of {the students' world that really do belong together. They don't have to be separate. " 
Pat Thomas committee member 
alumni and their resources. 




aboard nuclear sub 
even bend without hitting your head. You had to be fair­ly acrobatic to even get in, but we all slept well." 
Not only were the sleeping conditions small. Hesburgh said, "The quarters were so tight you had to turn sideways to pass someone. And there were a lot of ladders." 
Despite the closeness, Hesburgh described the meals aboard the submarine as "ter­rific. We never had a dupli­cate meal. They have to do something for those guys; they can be under as long as three months." 
In addition to saying mass everyday and hearing confes­sions, Hesburgh was granted unlimited access to the entire submarine. 
"We saw everything on that ship; there were no restric­tions. Normally, the whole engineering space is out of bounds to anybody except naval officers. They said we could go anywhere and we did," the former University President said. 
One thing that struck Hesburgh was the quality of the officers and crew aboard the boat. Instead of a 24-hour day, the schedule on board was 18 hours long, allowing them six hours to sleep, six hours to work and six hours to eat and relax. Instead of unwinding, however, the members of the crew studied maneuvers during their free time. 
Comprised of African­Americans, Hispanics and Asians. "The crew was a very good slice of America," he said. 
Mostly in their 20s and 30s, he believes about half are married. 
"It's tough on families," he said. "There's no communica­tion for long amounts of time." 
There was one thing that particularly surprised Hesburgh during his trip. "Having spent considerable time on board naval ships, I know the language gets pretty rough," he said. "I was very surprised; I only heard one very mild cuss word the entire week." 
Last year, amid talk that the ASLAC would replace the Campus Life Council (CLC). University officials announced that the bodies would have sep­arate tasks and functions. 
On Tuesday, Thomas, who also serves on the CLC, was hesitant to discuss what the dif­ferences between the two orga­nizations will be. 
"It's going to take time,'' sho said. "We [ASLACJ members need to establish our ground rules." 
The committee's first meeting 

ByMEGDADAY 
News Writer 
What can you give a man that has said mass within a mile of the South Pole and broken the world speed record aboard an SR-71? 
The United States Navy responded to the challenge by giving Father Theodore Hesburgh the opportunity to travel aboard the USS Portsmouth, a nuclear sub­
Aprahamian and psychology professor George Howard, elected by the faculty to three­year terms; Keenan Hall rector Father Gary Chamberland. elected by Notre Dame rectors to a three-year term; junior Luciana Reali, elected by the student senate to a one-year term; and Dean of the College of Engineering Frank Incropera and director of the University Counseling Center Patrick Utz, appointed by Malloy to one­year terms. 
is March 5. Two other meetings are planned before the end of the semes­ter. 
Thomas, Zeidler and Slonkosky will serve with six other ASLAC members: physics pro­fessor Ani marine. 

He accepted, and from Jan. 16, when the boat departed from San Diego, Cal., until Jan. 22, when it arrived at Pearl Harbor, the hatch was closed and Hesburgh never saw the sun. 
"It's just like getting into a dark cave. There's no com­munication with the outside world." said Hesburgh. 
After leaving San Diego, the boat submerged to 500 feet and occasionally dropped to 
700 feet, but, according to Hesburgh, it never rose to less than 60 feet and that was only to receive satellite com­mands. 
"A new president was inau­gurated while we were in there, but we were totally cut off from the world." 
In addition to the roughly 130 crew members aboard the submarine, Hesburgh's brother who is a naval officer, and Pat Casey, the comman­der of Notre Dame's ROTC program accompanied him on the trip. 
The three of them slept in bunks that were stacked on top of one another. Hesburgh described the beds as "the size of a child's coffin. You had to get in sideways and you couldn't really sit up or 

ERASMUS BOOKS 
-Used Books bouaht and sold 
-25 Categories ofBooks 
-25,000 Hardback and Paperback 
books in stock 
UnlW'!"lltyor Nol!tl Dame 

All Notre Dome facutty, staff and students 
Mendoza College ofBualnesa 
ore welcome to attend 
Thursday, February 1, 2001
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
still deep divisions. "I hate that there exists this us

ROTC 
vs. them mentality, but it can't be denied there's tensions," said 
continued from page 1 
senior Shawn Storer, a founding who demonstrated that day. member of Pax Christi. "People "But it was a bit underwhelm-hold fast to certain things." 
Pete Sweeney, a junior Air
ing." No one confronted them. Few Force cadet, said that despite efforts on both sides to start dia­seemed even to notice. But the logue, each still has misconcep­trio decided to do it again the tions about the other. 
next week. This time, six more 
"Both sides are ignorant of
people came. The next week, 
each other," he said. "I think
another six showed up and, from there, the vigil grew into a regu­people are still trying to figure each other out." 
lar weekly event. Gradually, a For one thing, Pax Christi has
club took an image as
shape. 
"the anti­
More than "/ hate that there exists 
ROTC group;"
two years 
this us vs. them mentali­
that was how
later. Pax 
Christi still ty, but it can't be denied it began, after all.
gathers every there's tensions. " 
As the clubFriday after­
has grown, itnoon to pray 
Shawn Storer has taken on a
for peace, although they founding member of Pax Christi wide range of issues, but
have moved to 
most of its
the more cen­public events
trally located P e a c e 
still concern Memorial Fountain in order to 
the military. . Also, it has sponsored talksbe more visible. In the last year, the group has 
such as one last year entitled held several open discussions 
"Ten reasons why ROTC should about ROTC from a Catholic per­
be banned from Notre Dame's campus." This understandablyspective. To these, they have invited ROTC students and pro­
angered the ROTC community. fessors, and in September, a 
Some people say that the peace Marine student even presented 
movement on campus could be more diplomatic.
at one. These dialogues have helped 
"The awareness they seek is to build a bridge, but there are 
awesome," said Andrew 
DeBerry, a sophomore Air Force cadet who is also involved with Pax Christi. "The way they go about it needs to be awesome, too." 
Storer and his companions in Pax Christi understand this, and in their events this year, they have worked to involve ROTC students more, and make the programs more about dialogue and finding common ground than about" politics and disagree­ment. They hope the shift will prove successful, and more effectively reach students of all stripes. 
"Maybe it's personal," Storer said. "ROTC is made up of peo­ple, you can't talk to ROTC on an institutional level; you have to talk to people." 
The cadets and midshipman training at Notre Dame and the officers who train them say they are more willing to listen to, and participate in, respectful dia­logue, rather than the kind of protest which initially inspired some of Notre Dame's pacifists. 
"Don't scream and yell. Don't throw blood on my airplanes about it," said Capt. Pat Casey, commanding officer of the Naval detachment. "Come and have a serious discussion about it." 
Having that serious discussion is what Pax Christi has trying to do. And even though ROTC is here to stay, the peace group will keep talking, praying and persisting, hoping to make peo­ple think about what that means. 



Celebrate Black History Month 2000! 
February is Black History Month 
Americans have recognized Black history annually since 1926, first as "Negro History Week" and later as "Black History Month." What you might not know is that Black history had barely begun to be studied-or even documented­when the tradition originated. Although Blacks have been in America at least as far back as colonial times it was not until the 20th century that they gained a respectable presence in the history books. ' 
Multicultural Student Programs & Services 
Multicultural Student Programs and Services (MSPS) focuses on ensuring the retention and success of historically underrepresented students and provides opportuni­ties for all students to explore is­sues of diversity, per1onal Iden­tity, multicultural education, and leadership development. 
Staff: Iris Outlaw, Director 
Multiwltura!Affairs andDiversifyEducation 
Kevin Huie, Asst. Director 
LeadetsllipDevelopmentand 

tlte Znll Ann1al JhdfitJIIIJ1ral ro111e11, .Nf1kt 
featuring Owen 6mith and b.ric Nieves 
8 p.m. @ Reckers 
Saturday, February 3rd 
sponsored by MSPS, BCAC and the Athletic Department 
The Annual NAACP FORMAL 
:t 




SOUL ~00D SUNDAY 
DINNER AND A MOVIE 
5 p.m. Keenan Hall Basement Sunday, February 4th 
sponsored by BCAC, the NAACP, and MSPS 
The Black Cultural Arts Council presents: 

talent showcase 
"Killing Cool" Igniting the Soul of Society 
Derrick Ashong 
6:45 p.m. LaFortune Ballroom 
(Call MSPS for reservations) 

Wednesday, February 7th 
sponsored by MSPS, Student Affairs, and Student Government 
"What Brothas Think, What Sistahs Know'' 
Fornm Discussion with Nick Chiles and Denene Milner 
StudentProgmmming 

Thursday, February 22nd 
9:00 p.m.
Adela Penagos, Coordinator 

Friday, February 16th 
AcademicEnrichmentand 
8 p.m

LaFortune Ballroom 
StudentSuccess 

8 p.m. LaFortune Ballroom 
LaFortune Ballroom
Saturday, February 10th 
Phone: 219/631-6841 

(tickets available in advance at the LaFortune 
sponsored by the NAACP and MSPS

Fax: 219/631-3162 

Box Office)
sponsored hy the NAACP Chapter ofND

www.nd.edu1--msps 

------~--. ---------· ---------··. ----. 






ATION 
Thursday, February 1 , 200 l COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Charges filed for Air India bombing: 
The Crown of' India intends to proceed by direct indictment against two British Columbia men charged in the bombing of Air {ndia Flight 182 in 1985. The decision was revealed during a provincial court appear­ance by Hipudarnan Singh Malik and Ajaib Singh Bagri. Lawyers for the two men. who face possibly years in custody while the case works through the courts, say they have no objection. 
Britain to pay Ex -WWII POWs: Thousands of British servicemen held prisoner by the Japanese during World War II will begin receiving payments Thursday of $14,500 each, the government said. Paymcnl<; from the British government arc part or a landmark plan announced in November that will ultimately cov(ir up to 16,700 ex-prisoners or their wid­ows. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Child imitates MlV show: The father of a 13-ycar-old boy, hospitalized with sec­ond-and third-degree burns after mimicking an MTV personality who set himself on fire during a stunt show, blames the network for his son's injuries. Jason Lind was severely burned Friday night when he and a friend poured gasoline on his feet and legs and lit him on lire while imitating a stunt on MTV's high-rated show "Jackass," police said. The fire grew out of control and burned the boy's legs and hands before it was extinguished, officials said. 
Democrats collect votes againstAshcroft: John Ashcroft's confirmation as attorney general a virtual certainty, Democrats were trying to muster enough "nays" to dissuade President Bush from trying tu fill any Supreme Court vacancy with a can­didate who shares his views against abortion and for states rights. The Senate agreed Wednesday night to hold a final vote Thursday afternoon on the nomination. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Drug distributor sentenced: A 
Rockport man was sentenced Wednesday to 14 years in federal prison for his role in a metham­phetamine trnllicking ring based in California. William Short, 41, pleaded guilty to conspiracy to distribute and distribution of tho drug, feder­al prosecutors said. Short was charged with transporting methamphetamine from California to Indiana and receiving the drug by mail. 
Market Watch 1 /31 

Dow 



10,887.36 +6.16
}ONES 
Composite
Up: Same: 

iW" Volume:1,860 199 
~ NfA 
AMEX: 930.12 ~4.16 Nasdaq: 2772.73 -65.62 NYSE: 663.64 -0.55 
S&P 500: 1366.0l -7.72 TOPS VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -L47 .0,'.16 37.44 INTEI. CORI' (INTC) unch undt }7.00 NASDAQ I 00 Sl!A R (QQQJ -3.67 -1.4~ 6•LIO ORACLE CORI' (ORCL) -3.9J -120 29.12 WORI.OCOM INC (WCOM) -~.23 -L20 21.56 
NETHERLANDS 


Associated Press 
CAMP ZEIST 
In a verdict that linked Libya to terrorism, a Scottish court gave a life sentence Wednesday to a Libyan intelligence agent for the murder of 270 peo­ple in the bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 but acquitted a second Libyan. 
Tears and jubiliation from victims' relatives greeted the guilty verdict read out by presiding judge Lord Ranald Sutherland. The three-judge court convicted Abdel Basset Ali al­Megrahi, 48, and sentenced him to a minimum of 20 years in a Scottish prison before he would be eligible for parole. 
Finding that al-Megrahi "was serving a foreign gov­ernment," the court said it accepted "the evidence that (al-Megrahi} was a member of the JSO, occupying posts of fairly high rank." The JSO is the Libyan intelli­gence service. 

The statement bolstered claims of victims' relatives that Libyan Col. Moammar Gadhafi and his govern­ment are responsible for the bombing of the New York-bound flight over Lockerbie, Scotland on Dec. 21, 1988. The conviction could also give impetus to civil actions that the rela­tives have filed against Libya. 
"Al-Megrahi being found guilty, that to me shows and points all the evidence to Gadhafi's feet," said Bert Ammerman of Riverdale, N.J., the brother of victim Tom Ammerman. He watched the telecast with about 85 others in New York. 
The verdict was the cli­max of an $80 million trial and nearly nine months of hearings at a special court in the Netherlands. The White House said U.N. and 
U.S. 
sanctions on Libya would remain in place, and 

U.S. 
and British officials said they will keep investi­gating the bombing. 


President Bush said at a Cabinet Room meeting with members of Congress that Libya should remain isolat­ed until Gadhafi agrees to "accept responsibility for this act and to compensate the families." 
Jeremy Greenstock, the British U.N. ambassador, said the main focus of com­ing discussions between the United States, Britain and Libya will be on compensa­tion and the Libyan govern­ment's accepting responsi­bility for the actions of its officials. 
Libya stuck to its denials of official involvement. State television cast the trial as a triumph for the Libyan people "over arrogance, aggression and imperial­ism and all attempts to make them bow down." Many people in downtown Tripoli, Libya's capital, sat around television and radio sets. 
Abuzed Dorda, Libya's ambassador to the United Nations, said Libya respected the verdict. But in an interview with The Associated Press, he added that the case in no way implicated the government, saying Libya "has nothing to do with the Libyan offi­cials." 
Prosecutors said the two men smuggled a bomb­laden suitcase onto a flight from the Mediterranean island or Malta. tagging it for transfer in Frankfurt, Germany, and then to the doomed jetliner in London. 

Student said to plot mass killing 
shipping them and pictures of them Columbine, according to his friends. 
Associated Press 

on the wall, Sgt. Steve Dixon said. "He was fixed on Columbine," Miceli 
SAN JOSE. Calif. DeGuzman, 19, allegedly planned said. 
A college student who allegedly for two years to kill fellow students ''Eric Harris is God:' DeGuzman assembled an arsenal of guns and at De Anza College and follow the allegediy proclaimed on one Web explosives in his bedroom and plot­example of Eric Harris and Dylan site. "He's my savior." The site has ted a mass killing at his school was Klebold, who killed 13 people and been taken down by its administra­fascinated with the 1999 rampage at wounded 23 others in Littleton, tor. Columbine Iligh School and "hated Colo., before committing suicide. While a specific motive remained everyone," police said Wednesday. '"He was going to kill as many peo­unclear, investigators found angry 
Amid the 30 pipe bombs and 20 ple as possible before he died," writings on DeGuzman's computer. Molotov cocktails stashed under Dixon said. "He seemed to think the DeGuzman, who is of Filipino clothes and in duffel bags in Al more people he killed, the better it'd descent, lashed out against politi­DeGuzman's messy bedroom, investi­be, the more media attention." cians. social classes and people of all gators found magazine articles about Deputy Police Chief Mike Miceli ethnic groups -including his own, the Columbine killers. writings wor-said DeGuzman talked a lot about police said. 
page 6 

The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February l, 2001 
Revue prepares to open tonight amid controversy 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
News Writer 

The Keenan Revue will take to a bigger stage than O'Laughiin Auditorium this weekend, as the Saint Mary's student body prepares to voice their opinion over the contro­versial variety show in a bal­lot initiative in Mondav's stu­dent body president ele.ction. 
The pending vote, however, has not put a damper on the efforts of the show's organiz­ers, who displayed thtlir antics onstagc Wednesday night in their final dress rehearsal before the production opens tonight. As the men of Keenan mocked everything from boy bands to South Bend's broth­er-sister news team to The Observer, it was clear that any pending threat the show could be moved off Saint Mary's campus was not weighing on their minds. 
"Compared to past years, the show is considerably tamer," said Chris Martin, the Revue's producer. "[Moving off-campus] isn't really a con­cern. If we're voted off cam­pus, the show's still going to go on." 
The controversy over the Revue's future on campus was evident in the production's opening monologue, as the hosts joked openly onstage about "paying through the nose" for the use of O'Laughlin and then being subject to heavy scrutiny over what they were permitted to perform. Thanking both Saint Mary's and Board of Governance in jest. the men of Keenan Hall forewarned the audience that the show isn't for viewers "under the age of 18." 
While most skits made the final cut, the "Saturday Night Live" style humor still gener­ated some concerns from the censorship board, comprised of representatives from Keenan Hall. ResLife, and Saint Mary's. While Saint Mary's student body president. Crissie Renner sat visibly amused during Wednesday's dress rehearsal, she did have to pull the plug on one Saint Mary's joke early in the pro­gram. 
Regardless, Renner said, the overall show is done in good taste. 
"I laughed," she admitted. "It's appropriate and funny. I'm thankful that Keenan has been so cooperative, and at the same time, they haven't lost their humor." 
Father Gary Chamberland. rector of Keenan Hall, said that the censorship board is extremely important to the production, a.nd the board does take into consideration the type of humor that is being pr.esented to the audi­ence. 
"What is most important is the guys at Keenan get an idea of what people who are not guys in Keenan might find offensive," he said. "Saint Mary's has been kind enough to host us for 21 years, and recently expressed concerns. We're trying to work with them." 
The show's producers teamed up with Board of Governance early this year to. conduct a student poll in the dining hall to gage student opinion towards the Revue. Because results showed that 93 percent of students polled approved of the Revue on campus, the show's organiz­ers believe that Monday's results will reflect their initial 'tallies. 
"A minority is so vocal," 
Martin said. "Even if one per­
cent of the campus thinks 
1-----------\

it's offensive, they're 
PRESENTING THE MOST IMPORTANT INSTRUMENT 
Your telephone  ETREATMENT  
can make1he dif­ference between a stroke that may  THO.KE.  
take a few weeks of  
recovery and one that  


JOSE CUELLAMhe Observer The residents of Keenan Hall practice for the 25th annual Keenan Revue Wednesday night. The show will open Thursday at O'Laughlin Auditorium on Saint Mary's campus amid controversy 
about the appropriateness of the show's humor on campus. 
going to get the news. There's nothing wrong with [the Revue] at all. If you don't like it, don't go." 

The results of Monday's ini­tiative will be tallied and pre­sented to the administration by the Board of Governance, but do not have any substan­tial power to remove the Revue from campus. 
The initiative is at the request of Saint Mary's administration, who requested that the Board assist them in measuring students' feelings towards the Revue. It is merely a 
49¢g~~~s
single-sided on 8.5' x 11" 28 lb. paper. You'll be amazed by the quality. 
(()py SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center 
On the Campus of the University of Notre Dame 

different means of assessing student's opinion, Renner said. 
"This is not a vote, and there is no finality in it," Renner said. "There were a lot of people who wanted to have a voice in this and didn't [in the survey}." 
For the meantime, however. the show's organizers do not feel any additional pressure to keep the show "toned down" to stay on campus going into the weekend. 
"I just want people to laugh," said Revue director Grant Gholson. "If it's done perfectly and no one laughs. that's worse than if it's not done perfectly and people laugh." 
It's that time again .... 
The Graphics department needs people. 
You could be one of them. If you don't 
mind working two to three on the nights 
YOU pick, and pick up some experience 
in the mean time then you are the 
perfect candidate. It's a first come first 
serve deal so be quick. 
Please send an email to jcuellar@nd.edu 
TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
Located Just East of the Notre Dame soccer field! 

NOW LEASING 2-BEDROOMS AND TOWNHOMES FOR FALL 2001 
AS LOW AS $270 PER PERSON! GREAT FOR ROOMMATES! 
HURRY SPACES ARE FILLING FAST! 
**REMODELED UNITS AVAILABLE** DON'T WAIT! PICK UP YOUR APPLICATION PACKET TODAY! 
all or stop by the leasing office today for details 
rakes a life. Because the fasteryou call an ambulance and get to the hospital, the greater your chance oflimiting brain injuzy. For more information call the AHA'.s Stroke Connection at 1-800-553-6321~ 
American Heart Ilia 
---
Association.V 
Call 631-COPY 
FREE Pick-Up & Delivery 
See store for details. Coupon required. Hurry -expires 2/14/01. \ Not valid with any other offer or discount. J 
' ---~ ---C ~ .--,,,, 

Live in Oak Hill next year! Two Bedroom/two bathroom townhouse for sale. Includes fireplace, patio and community pool. Just two minutes from campus! Please call Erica or Kyle at (315) 641-1927 for further information. 

P: 272-8124 

Thursday, February 1 , 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Baxter speaks on conscientious objection in Gulf War 
deployed 500,000 troops in the applicants arc asked if they
By LIZ ZANONI 
Gulf region, many from Germany have ever applied tor CO status 
NcWs Writer 
and other places in Europe where before, said Baxter. The appli­
they had been stationed during cant must show, "not that he or 
As parl of ongoing dialogue of the Cold War, said Baxter. she has always been a CO but Catholic Perspectives on HOTC A Mennonite couple working has become one since signingstarted last spring, Father with COs in Germany discovered the enlistment contract, thus Michael Ba"l:tcr, associate profes­they had more requests then they having to show that there has sor of Theology at Notre Dame, could handle and contacted been some kind of change or gave a talk Wednesday night at Father Baxter for help. Father crystallization of conscientious the Center for Social Concerns Baxtor, who had been working on after joining," said Baxter. (CSL) entitled. "Conscientious his Ph.D. in Thoology and Ethics Baxter and his colleagues Objectors and the Persian Gulf at Duke University. worked in faced several critical questionsWar." draft registration in the early about why COs would agree to 
On tho 10th anniversary of the 1980s by helping to inform reg­enter military service knowing
United States' involvement in istries of the possibility of filing as that there is a possibility of Operation Desert Storm. Baxter a CO. At Notre Dame, Baxter set active combat. reflected on his experiences up a draft counseling center Baxter said it was importantworking with Conscientious under Campus Ministry and to keep iJi mind that the sol­
Objectors (CO) in Germany after served as Counselor of the diers, many of whom came the U.S. and allies launched the Central Corn mittee for from disadvantaged homes. 
largest air assault in military his­Conscientious Objectors (CCCO). were entering the military tory in retaliation of Iraq's inva­After accumulating donations without an awareness of the sion of Kuwait on Jan. 16, 1991. to raise the necessary mo·ney, realities and manifestations of 
"This war has never really Baxter and his colleges decided to war. come to an end for the Iraqi peo­go to Germany and disperse to "The military was to them an pIe," Baxter said. Since the various military bases to explain opportunity for employment," 
cease-fire on Feb. 27, 1991, forcibly deployed to the Middle that of the near 2,500 CO applica­
the legal process the department said Baxter. "They weren't Just East, some in handcuffs and leg tions submitted, almost none ofBaxter said that the U.S. has of defense requires of soldiers War people, they weren't paci­irons, said Baxter. Once in the them were processed in the cor­placed Iraq under an economic preparing to come forward as fists, they weren't anything when Gulf region, many COs were rect manner. Many COs were
embargo and continues to use cos. they enlisted. They were just out fighter planes to patrol Iraq on a One important aspect of the ofajob." arrested without even the right to prosecuted and brought to trial regular basis. receive letters from their families. for unauthorized absence and
registration process occurs when During the Gulf War, COs were In the fall of 1990, the U.S. Reports after the war showed desertion, said Baxter. 

1:'Sum1nertime .& the Livin's 
Easy...'' BEA SUMMER RESIDENCE HALL MANAGER· OR ASSISTANTMANAGER:  
USE YOUR LEADERSHIP SKILLS  
.  BE PART OF A WINNING TEAM  
.  EARN A STIPEND AND FREE ROOM  
.  MEET 18,000 STUDENTS & GUESTS  

APPLICATIONS RECEIVED BY FEBRUARY 12, 2001 WILL RECEIVE PRIORITY CONSIDERATION. 
APPLY AT 305 MAIN BUILDING, OFFICE OF STUDENT RESIDENCES 
C 0 L L E G E 
OF 

ENGINEERING 
D STINGUISHED 
•
L E C T u R E s E R E s 
Kevin Connors 
General Partner, Spray Venture Partners 
Healthcare Technology and Venture Capital: Engineering to Improve the Quality of Life 
Monday, February 5 
12:50 to 1:40 p.m. in the DeBartolo Auditorium, Room 101 
"During the Gulf War no CO applications were processed even though military regula­tions provided for the rights of COs," said Baxter. 
Baxter and his colleges returned to the U.S. and started the CO support network, which encouraged military personal to write objections to commanding officers, Congressional repre­sentatives, and the Pentagon. 
Baxter said he wanted to let the military know that people were well aware of the army's treatment and failure to recog­nize COs. 
Baxter concluded his talk by focusing on what rights ROTC students should have at Notre Dame. Not only should they be informed about their options as COs, Baxter said, but also the University should challenge them on their own moral con­victions of war. 
Similarly to the soldiers in Germany, Baxter said many ROTC students join under eco­nomic pressures, haven't seri­ously considered their personal stands on war, and often view their work in the military with certain abstractness as they train for positions as officers. 

page 8 The Observer . SMC ELECTION 2001 Thursday, February 1, 2001 
SMC candidates take on communication as platform 
By MOLLY McVOY 
Saint Mary's Edimr 

Corrummication is the focal point of the platform for Michel.le Nagle and Kristen Matha, the one and only ticket running for Saint Mary's student body president/vice president. 
"Accountable and accessible are the two words that sum up our platform," Nagle said. 
Nagle and Matha hope to increase their accessibility to the student body with the goals laid out in their platfonn. One of their goals is to institute a State of the Student Address at the beginning of Nagle each semester. Nagle and Matha hope this will give the student body the opportunity to understand what student government is accomplishing each semester. 

"What happens 


Matha
now is that candi­dates come out with a pla1fonn at the beginning of the year and then the student body forgets about it," Matha said. "We hope this changes that." 
In addition to the State of the Student Addr~, NagleJMatha are planning to put up a bulletin board where they will post the agenda of the upcoming Board of Governance meeting. They also hope to update the student government Web page and hold breakfasts in the dining hall where students can meet with their administration. 
"Things like this would be very powerful to give students a voice," Nagle said. 
u '. · · .
e:Wanted~ 
o1 o1 o., o1 -1 
Sophomore & Junior ': ¦Q '1 r. ~ 0 Q 1 n , ' 1Students fa'1iijar Y'i(ith both Maci(OS9)'and---: . Wind~ws (Wll\12000 rrofessi'?'rl~I, Server), 1 
1

· platfo'rrns as well as network•..n9'!.·.·. OO... 1 (.....
l : 'l , _, ·._l · 0 l O 1 0 1 1J : .1 , Must possess strQfl9 problen] solvi~Q'fl~d1 i ~dr;nini~tr~~)'~ ~~i~~-1 0 0 1 0 0 1 0 1 0 1 Salaried Position. Average 5-7 hrs/wk."1 0 ·1 E-mail resume to mgpnvm@nd.edu 1 · O 1 0 
t , . , 1 . ,. 1 91;1 ?;, !~ ?i ~ ?i ~ 
Nagle and Matha hope to reopen the stu­dent government office and hold office hours to increase their availability to the student body. 
"We're trying to have unifonn ways for the student body to know what's going on," Nagle said. 
In their new administration. Nagle and Matha want to include a Holy Cross repre­sentative on Board of Governance. 
"They're just picking up a student gov­ernment and we want to do what we can do to mentor Holy Cross in forming a stu­dent government," Nagle said. 
The ticket also hopes to institute a wel­come back event for Meet the students returning 
from abroad. Candidates "We want to give 
abroad students a way 
to get involved," Matha 
. Tonight, 7p.m. said. 
. Haggar Parlor If elected, Nagle and Matha will come into office in the wake of 
several major issues between the student body and the administration. The campus is currently debating whether to host both the Vagina Monologues and the Keenan Revue. The students will be asked to give their opinion on the Keenan Revue on the ballot during Monday's elections. 
Nagle and Matha said that both are tough issues but they are unclear as to what steps should be taken. They said that voices outside the student body, including the administration, alumnae and donors need to be heard before any decision can be made. 
"As a student body, we need to under­stand what role the administration has," Nagle said. "As a private institution, we have to look at donors, the Board of Trustees and the Parent's Council." 
"We have to take into consideration how alumnae feel," Matha said. Student body elections will be during the day on Monday. 
··• 'l O ..i 1 

Unopposed 
continued from page 1 
surprised that there is not a greater turnout this year. 
"I've noticed a general apathy among students. Fewer people turn out for events," said junior Kathleen Nickson, LeMans Hall council vice-president. 
The situation came as a mixture of surprise and disappointment to Nagle, who initially believed that she would be a hindrance to Matha's winning the election. A three-year veteran of stu­dent government, Nagle was concerned that her experience could be a negative in a tight campaign. She seriously con­sidered not running because students may need a new face in student gov­ernment, she said. 
That wasn't the case, however. 
":fhe fact that only one ticket is run­ning is not a horrible thing." said Georgeanna Rosenbush, Director of Student Activities. "In my 18 years at Saint Mary's, it's happened three or four times -its all part of a cycle." 
Time constraints could be another reason that students shy away from running, where a small campus finds 
ND hosts visiting sculptor 
Special to The Observer 
International ceramic sculptor Peter Voulkos is an artist-in-residence at the University of Notre Dame this week and will present a lecture on his work at 4 p.m. today in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum of Art on campus. Sponsored by the Notre Dame Department of Art, Art History and Design, the Snite and the Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts, the lecture is free and open to the public. 
A professor emeritus at the University of California, Berkeley, Voulkos has been creating ceramic sculpture for 50 years. His visit is pro­viding Notre Dame art students with the unique opportunity not only to 
tl1e 

many students involved in multiple activities. 
The time commitment of student body president is something that has to be exclusive to other activities. 
This could be deterring some stu­dents, Rosenbush said. 
"At Saint Mary's. we give our study body leader a lot of power, and this comes with a great deal of responsibili­ty," she said. "This fall, I had many stu­dents approach me about running in the elections, but they also wanted to do other things; student body president is a full-time job. 
"I am honest with students when they ask about the level of commitment. Many student body presidents have ended relationships due to the immense time commitment." Rosenbush continued. 
Some students believe the responsi­bility of the job is deterring some potential candidates. 
"It's hard to be a representative for every group and personality on cam­pus," said Julia Fletcher, junior and LeMans Hall council treasurer. 
"It brings a lot of conflict, there are only a select few that can take on that feat. Those are the ones who are on the ticket and deserve the position." 
observe his work, but also to assist him by wedging clay as he creates large abstract expressionistic sculp­tures. 
"Having Peter Voulkos at Notre Dame is a wonderful experience. He has an international reputation and it's wonderful to have our advanced undergraduates and our graduates rubbing shoulders with him," said Rev. Austin I. Collins, C.S.C., department chair and associate professor of art at Notre Dame. 
Voulkos' sculptvres will be wood­fired this spring and exhibited at the Snite Museum of Art. Following the exhibit, Voulkos will give one sculpture to the museum for its permanent col­lection. 

Thursday, February I, 2001 The Observer . NEWS page 9 
Senate panel endorses lower Ind. drunken driving standard 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
After years of being stalled at the starting gate. legislation to lower Indiana's standard for drunk­en driving is now on its way to both chambers of the General Assembly. 
The proposal has lingered in a Senate commit­tee for more than a decade. but this week law­makers from both chambers endorsed similar measures that will soon be considered by the full !louse and Senate. 
Members of the Senate Public Policy Committee voted 7-3 Tuesday to advance a bill lhai would reduce the level at which drivers are considered drunk from a blood-alcohol content of 0.10 percent to 0.08 percent. A day earlier, a llouse committee advanced a similar proposal. 
Prospects for the legislation appear to be improving during this legislative session, thanks in large part to a new federal mandate that threatens to withhold highway dollars from states that don't adopt the reduced standard. 
Sen. Tom Wyss, R-Fort Wayne, has introduced lhe bill in 10 of the last 11 years. ms bill reached the noor of the Senate just once. That was in 1990, when the measure died later in the House. 
Testimony at Tuesday's three-hour Senate committee hearing mirrored remarks made Monday lo House members. Supporters urged passage of the bill to improve highway safety, while opponents questioned whether there was sufficient evidence to prove the proposal would save lives. 
John Livengood, a lobbyist who represents the Heslaurant and I lospitality Association, said sta­tisticaI studies have not shown lowering the threshold for drunken driving arrests will reduce traffic crashes. 
"Tho arguments for this arc emotional and political. I don't believe they are factual." Livengood said. 
lie and other industry representatives were 
concerned that similar measures in other states have cut alcohol sales by 10 to 20 percent, hurt­ing small family-run businesses. Some opponents suggested lawmakers wait two years to give the issue additional study. 
Critics of the bill also questioned whether it was necessary because current state law already permits authorities to seek drunken driving charges against motorists with blood-alcohol lev­els below 0.08, if police officers can prove they were impaired. 
The lower threshold would allow prosecutors to obtain a conviction based solely on a person's blood-alcohol content. 
Since 1999, St. Joseph County Prosecutor Chris Toth has rollowed a policy of using that rule to pursue charges against greater numbers of dri­vers. but he wants the law to be stronger. 
"Many of the arguments I've heard (against the bill) are strangely reminiscent of some the argu­ments set forth by the tobacco industry trying to argue that cigarettes do not cause cancer," Toth said. 
Sen. Charles "Bud" Meeks. R-Leo-Cedarville, a former Allen County sheriff. recalled that people began to drink more responsibly after 1967, the last time Indiana lowered its drunken driving standard. 
Meeks said he dreaded patrolling on Christmas Eve because drunken drivers often were return­ing home from holiday and office parties. 
"In 1965, I buried two people and sent five to the hospital, four of those critical. Then we went from 0.15 down to 0.10, and we did have a behavioral change," said Meeks, who voted for the proposal. 
Gov. Frank O'Bannon has expressed support for the measure and in his State of the State address urged lawmakers to pass it this year. 
Congress enacted a law last fall that will begin penalizing states that don't adopt the 0.08 per­cent standard by 2004. Indiana is among 31 states that have a 0.10 percent standard or do not set a specific standard. 


THE 

ND student fondled, 
report not published 
Obsccver Staff Report 

A Notre Dame student was forcibly fondled by another stu­dent Nov. 3, according to Notre Dame Security Police. 
The sex offense occurred in a residence hall on campus and was reported to Residence Life shortly after the inci­dent, director of security Rex Rakow said. The student also reported the fondling to Security on Nov. 13 but the incident was not entered into the police log until Jan. 22 when Security concluded their investigation and passed the case on to ResLife, Rakow said. 
Rakow could not explain why the incident was not record­ed in the log in a timely manner of Nov. 13 as required by law. 
"For some unexplained reason, it didn't get bloated at that time," Rakow said. 
Rakow did not believe the fondler posed a threat to the community so press releases were not issued and posters were not placed around campus. 
"(Whether or not to publicize acquaintance sexual assaults] is always widely interpreted," Rakow said. "We don't report acquaintance rape as danger in that we post flyers. We don't send out a flyer in the middle of the night because that's not going to do any good." 
Conor 
continued from page I 
and console each other." The wake is scheduled for Friday afternoon from 2 to 8 
p.m. at McGorray's Funeral Home in Lakewood, Ohio. The viewing will take place Saturday morning from 9:30 to 11 a.m. in the gymnasium of Saint Ignatius High School, followed by the funeral mass at 11 :30 a.m.. which will also take place at Saint Ignatius. 
The Office of Student Affairs is sponsoring bus transporta­tion to Cleveland for a limited number of students. Busses will depart Notre Dame early Saturday morning and return that night. Complete informa­tion will be made available in Friday's Observer. 
In lieu of flowers, Murphy's family requested that dona­tions be made to scholarships in his name at either Saint Ignatius High School or the University. 

is now accepting applications for the following positions_:. 
MANAGING EDITOR 
Applicants should have strong editorial and journalistic skills and be comfortable in a management position. A basic understanding of newspaper production and experience with the Macintosh system is helpful. 
BUSINESS MANAGER 
Any sophomore or junior business major at Notre Dame. Saint Mary's or Holy Cross interested in valuable work experience is encouraged to apply. Applicants should have strong interpersonal and organizational skills and a basic understanding ofaccounting principles. 
Applicants should submit a resume _and a five-page statement to Mike Connolly by 5 p.m. Friday. February 2. 2001. For additional information about the position contact Business Manager Tim Lane a 631-5313 or Editor in Chief. Mike Connolly at 631.-4542. Applicants are also encouraged to stop by the office in South Dining Hall with any questions. 

VIEWPOINT 
NHE 

page 10 Vl\SERVER 
Thursday, February 1, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. &ix Q. Notte Dame, IN 46556 024 Souch Dining Hall. Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Tim Lane 
NEWS EDITOR; Anne Marie Matcingly VIEWPOINT EUITOR, Lila Haughey SPORTS EDITOR, Kerry Smirh SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: Elizabeth Lang 
ADVEltnSING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CoNTROLLER: Bob Woods GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 

OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING ...................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................63I-4542 MANAGING EmmRIA.ssT. ME....................63I-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................63I-53I3 N.Ews..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 
observer. vicwpoinr. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sporcs. l@nd.edu SCFNE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer .smc.l@nd.edu PH0T0........................................................ 63I-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISfRATORS.................63I-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site at http://obsmm-.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 

movies/music for 
minute forecasts 

weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 

online features for spe­
and rates ofprint ads 

cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 

about The Observer 
articles published after 

to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the adminiscracion ofeither inscirution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editot in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and deparrment editors. Commentaries, letcers and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Ediror mrnr be signed and must include conract information. 
Quntwns r~arding Obsnv,rrpolicies should be thm:t­td w F.diror in ChiefMike Connolly. 
Nagle/Matha miss the issues 
Michelle Nagle and Kristen Matha want to improve communication between the Board of Governance and the student body. Through breakfast meetings. bulletin boards and Web pages, Nagle/Matha intend to make stu­dent government OJhe 
oserver 

While they developed their platform and prepared for their campaign, Nagle/Matha say they met with many administrators to find out what the Saint Mary's administration would 
like to see accom­plished in the next year. 

more responsive to Through those meet­the needs of the ings Nagle/Matha students in the came to one conclu­
Editorial 
coming year. 
Unfortunately they lack any idea of what the student body wants now. None of the critical issues currently facing Saint Mary's students are addressed in their platform. There is no mention of the Keenan Revue; no stance on the Vagina Monologues; no concern for the censorship of student groups by the administration and the lack of an open speaker's policy on campus. 
sion: "There is no 
need for big initiatives 
this year." 

Nagle and Matha both have the best interests of Saint Mary's at heart. They both want to do what is neces­sary to help the students at the College. But what they really need to do is spend more energy voicing the opinions of the students to the admin­istration rather than voicing the administration's demands to the stu­dents. 
Nagle and Matha believe they have a responsibility to the administration, the alumnae and the donors. They need to better understand their greater responsibility to the students. 
Their communication platform will probably help them better understand the needs of the student body and give the student body a clearer pic­ture of how student government oper­ates. 
What remains to be seen, however, is if they will act on behalf of the stu­dents. If Nagle/Matha stand up for students and refuse to bow to admin­istrative pressure, the Nagle/Matha administration will be a success. If they continue to only listen to the administration, they will continue to believe "there arc no specific issues facing Saint Mary's right now." 
Once they start listening to stu­dents. Nagle/Matha will find that is entirely not true. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Reflecting on a lost brother 
The mass at 10:30 on the night of Tuesday, Jan. 30, 2001, was quite an oddity. The music was thrown together at the last minute, the Nicene Creed was skipped and 10 percent of the con­gregation was forced to stand due to lack of sitting space. 
1t was the most beautiful mass I had ever attended. 
Allow me to begin afresh. In the Zahm Hall Chapel, a mass was held for Conor Murphy, a Zahm brother who was diagnosed with leukemia some time ago. As of Tuesday night, Conor's condition had worsened and the men of Zahm were informed that Conor was not expected to make it through the night. 
A freshman, I do not know Conor per­sonally. I had not met him and I was familiar with him only through the brotherhood that members of Zahm Hall share; the brotherhood often mocked on this campus, but the brotherhood that all peo­ple wish to know and possess. As an active member of the Zahm choir, our rector asked me to try and pull some music together for a mass for Conor. 

Before the choir began to rehearse its first song of the night under my direction, the chapel began to fill. By the time the choir finished rehearsing its last song 
before mass, the chapel was filled to overflowing with support­'--ers, friends and acquain­tances of Conor and peo­ple like me: people who had never met Conor before. Mass was said. 
As ofthat night, I had never cried before and I will 
never cry again. 
As the tears left from my eyes, I won­dered at the sheer stupidity of it all. It is only at times of tragedy that we 
stop to ponder life, its purpose. 
its wonder and its frailty. Every other week in our 
lives we walk 

around without a . . .. •~ deep thought in our · heads. This is true and 
everyone knows it. I ''. nt to La.Fortune after · ass, hoping to be 
shocked back into the reality I knew and could be comforted by. I saw it there, on the face of every person who had not attended the mass, but I was not reassured. I saw how ugly it was, and how cheap it was, and how shallow it was. I hated it. 
We get so wrapped up in all of the little things that cause us irritation or lead our lives. People continue to gripe about the last election, 1 receive weekly e-mails from an Iranian friend regarding the injustice of Jews in the Middle East and I hear young lovers quarrel over petty matters like misunderstood phrases and unappreciated looks. 
Infrequently do we ever put our lives on hold and reflect on what is really going on: How have we grown? Are we happy? ls happiness defined in an ever­increasing set of goals? What are we doing with our time? 
I do not know if Conor Murphy pulled through on Tuesday night, because 1 write this that very night. But I pray for him, as I pray for my parents, my sisters, my cat and the rest of my family. And I go to the grotto that night, light a candle. and sing "Notre Dame, Our Mother" with the rest of the students and others gath­ered there. And I look up and I see a leaf on the limb of the tree. It holds on, fear­ing the fall of letting go, knowing that it should be with the tree. The leaf is Conor. The leaf is me. The leaf is all of us. The leaf is everything. 
The walk back to Zahm was cold. 
Wm. Taylor Palfrey,Jr freshman Zahm Hall January 30, 2001 
DILBERT 
I HIRED A CREEP 
YOU 
TO HELP DETERMINE 
NEED 

OUR PRODUCT'S GOOD
MORE 

FEATURES. WORK.
FEATURES. 
..V 
i 
i 
:;;" 
,._
..C 
i 
...• 

SCOTT ADAMS 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Do not go gentle in that good night, Old age should burn and rave at close ofday; Rage, rage against the dying ofthe light. " 
Dylan Thomas poet 
WHEN CAN YOU 
HAVE 

GAAAI I
THAT 
\ti
DONE? 



VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

Thursday, February l, 200 l BSERVER page 11 
Fielding feedback on sport utilities 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Defending an MVP 
Lately, Observer articles have pointed to Hay Lewis as an evil, treacherous and murderous thug. As far as The Observer seems con­cerned. he might as well have played the Super Bowl in the orange jumpsuit with which we arc so familiar. It seems only fair that tho Notre Dame community hear the true facts and not the decidedly biased opinions of Kevin Berchou. 
The truth about Ray Lewis is simple. He was in-the wrong place at the wrong time with the wrong people. Recognizing this, Lewis became the prosecution's star witness against Heginald Oakley an<l Joseph Sweeting who were seen with knives that night. If there is a fight out­side Boat Club and you happen to be there and picked up by the South Bend police, I'm sure you'd be telling Res-Life the same story. It is time to realize that Ray Lewis is a victim of coincidence and ignorance. 
To lhink of the MVP as evil is preposlerous. ESPN says he spends Friday nighl<i with his family. This is true. But he also spends his sum­mers with them and his liance in Orlando and flies his three children to every home Ravens game. Not to mention, how he was abandoned by his father, took care of his four siblings while his mom worked two jobs and has since bought each member of the family a home. 
Lewis has taken the lesson of this incidence to heart. He councils incoming NFL players about the danger of association with the wrong people. He is involved in several service programs in the Baltimore and Miami areas. Ray Lewis has overcome the type of prejudice, criticism and ignorance that seem reserved for after-school specials to become a great football player. For all he has been through and achieved, when he is announced on sports largest stage, let the man dance for joy. 
Tony Griswold 
junior Knott Hall January 30, 200 I 

Women's empowerment not 
expressed in 'Monologues' 
The last time I checked, rape and child molestation were not women's empowerment issues. They were considered violence against women issues. Apparently, all those who wrote to The Observer in defending "The Vagina Monologues" believe otherwise. 
I consider myself a feminist. I worked at a feminist organization over the summer, Feminists for Life of America. None of the women I have ever met, around town or on the job, would willingly support the publica­tion of "The Vagina Monologues" as great women'sempowerment literature. 
Here are a few little-known facts that I won­der if any of you who are protesting the can­cellation of the show are aware of: 
One of the central messages of the show is that "great sex is possible betw~en people who have absolutely no emotional commit­ment to each other." 
One of the inspirational high points in the show is a monologue from a 13-year old girl who is seduced and raped by a 25-year old woman. The 13-year old's reaction? "I say, if it was a rape, it was a good rape, a rape that turned my vagina into a kind of heaven." 
The show's final result is that it has con­doned and glorified rape, child molestation. pornography and prostitution. 
In a world where feminists and all those who fight for women'sjm1tice have worked so hard over the years to gain respect and admi­ration for the way we manage our lives, I find it hard to see how this show could further that cause at all, other than giving someone untold opportunities to say the word "vagina." 
Rape is rape, no matter how someone spins it and the unlawful rape of a child is particu­larly heinous. One of our great opportunities at this University, as I understand it, is to edu­cate, not pidalate. However, in dealing with these sensitive issues, i.e., women's rights and equal opportunity, this play validates the very things which we have fought so hard to over­come; namely, the subjugation and objectivity of women. 
In terms of the play helping people come to terms with their sexuality, dealing with these matters in shock-jock language doesn't resolve or mitigate them; it simply produces giggles and crude slams at the play and the actors performing it. 
This play, in its language and its subject matter, is not women's empowerment, it is a cheap way of getting attention and an excuse to act immature. Thank you, Saint Mary's, for not giving in! 
Katherine Hoppe 
sophomore 
Lyons Hall 
January 31. 200 l 

One of the benefits of writing columns is that I often hear and learn from readers. In my last column, written half in jest and wholly serious, I argued that sport utility vehicles or "SUV's" violated Catholic social teaching in a number of ways. Their wasteful gas mileage, excess emissions and threat to both others and the vehicle's own passengers appeared to be in conflict with human dignity, soli­darity and tho com­mon good in those instances -which is most of the time ­when other vehicles would do. f also indi­cated that the pos­turing inherent in most ownership of SUV's was1part of a consumer society that so pursues image that it divorces freedom from truth. 
I received more responses to that col­umn than virtually any other and those against SUV's outnumbered those in favor by a ratio of eight to one. On the wasteful gas mileage. I learned from one reader that changing from an average car to a 13 miles per gallon sport utility vehicle for one year would waste more energy than if one lefl the refrigerator door open for six years or had the television on for 28 years. Regarding emissions, I learned that while a llonda Civic produces 40 tons of carbon dioxide over 124,000 miles (itself a lot), a Chevy Suburban releases one 115 tons and a Ford Excursion 134 tons, well over three times that of the Civic. 
On the point regarding danger to oth­ers. a number of people reported difficul­ty seeing around SUV's, making pulling out into traffic -say, taking a right from the right-hand lane when the SUV is to the left of you and blocking your ability to see traffic coming from the left -much more hazardous. In other words, the extra visibility that SUV drivers seek denies others the ability to see at all in critical situations. Other people reported Lhat the height and bulk ofSUV's actually work against the extra visibility that their drivers seek: these people said that SUV drivers often seemed not to see them but rather to see right over them. 

One commenter provided additional information regarding the use of car phones. It seems that studies have shown that drivers using car phones are suffi­ciently distracted that they are as likely to get in accidents as someone who is legally drunk. The most dangerous vehicle, this respondent said, is the SUV with a car phone. 
Another person made an interesting point with respect to the danger to those in the SUV itself. He said that although suv·s. because of their greater mass, cause more destruction to other vehicles, when they collide with things bigger than they are -for instance, a bridge abut­ment-the threat to passengers in the SUV itself is accentuated. This is because SUV's are listed as trucks, not as cars and so do not have to have the same safety standards. They therefore do not have what is called a "compression zone" between the mass of metal and the pas­sengers that is required ofcars. This par­ticular respondent called it the bully syn­drome: SUV's threaten (as they are designed to do) those objects smaller than they are, but do not stand up when what is in question is an object as big or bigger. 
A number ofcomments came in regard­ing the issue ()f the SUV image in a con­sumer society. Again, Charles Wheelan, whose horrible one-vehicle SUV rollover I recounted last time, admits that he bought I.he SUV because it "projected a different image than a minivan or a sta­tion wagon." I left out the final lines ofhis own column: "I should never have put my family in that truck or any other like it." 
-I 

One respondent pointed out that the zenith -the nadir? -of such image seeking is "that oxymoron, the luxury sport utility vehicle." Lexus and Mercedes now make vehicles of this type. In these cases. he pointed out. "the press for image is so strong -going for two at once -that it is lost on the owner that the activities that the images convey are incompatible." 
A number of people tried to give me solace when reading that my car was hit by two SUV's in a month. The comment of one stands out: "Look, I get mad too. But this is what I do. I think back. To 1988 to be exact. Remember the presidential election then? Bush vs. Dukakis. Bush was 17 points behind when run­ning against nobody, just anybody the Democrats might put up. It was Bush against anyone and he loses. Then the Democrats put up Mike Dukakis. Now, people point to this and that as to why Dukakis lost. 
But I know what turned it in favor of Bush. It was that ad that had Dukakis riding in that tank. Bush had a war record; Dukakis thought that he had to look tough. So he turns out this ad with him and his head in a helmet sticking out of a tank smiling and bob­bing like those figures with heads on a spring that people put in the back win­dows of their cars. But everyone knew what a crock it was. So I know they get you mad, but when you think of those SUV drivers and the tanks they buy for image, think Dukakis '88." 
One writer in favor of SUV's argued that in the mountains of Montana and Wyoming they are necessary, and arc not just for image. Indeed, these are exam­ples of where such vehicles aid travel where other vehicles may not. 
This is why I said that SUV's are fine when there is a "specific need" for them and, "There may well be places and times where high carriage on a vehicle is help­ful." The tougher cases are those where the region is not mountainous, but receives a lot of snow (again, Indiana does not count). 
In unplowed areas after a storm, the high carriage can be of help. The trade­off is that the narrow wheel base in com­
parison to the height of the vehicle makes the SUV a liability when the roads are cleared of snow, but ice may remain. My wife lived in New York 30 miles from the Canadian 
border for two years. There the vehicle of choice was the Subaru because of its all-wheel 
drive and wide wheel base rel­ative to height. In most cases, however, the situation is like that which one respondent reported from New Jersey: the SUV's are only put into four· wheel drive at the Mall in 
order to facilitate driving over curbs. A writer defending the vehi­cles suggested that the reason that people who actually rock climb do not drive SUV's is because they would rather spend their money on climbing gear or work less and go on a climbing trip. 
And that was exactly my point: while generalizations must be made with cau­tion, it can be ventured that most of those who actually rock climb would rather partake in the activity itself than look like they might be someone who partakes in that activity. 
Todd David Whitmore is an associate professor in the theology department. His column runs every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

M 
cene E 
page 12 Thursday, February 1, 2001 
MOVIE REVIEW 

'Snatch' will attract male audiences 
By JEFFREY Q. IRISH 
Scene Movie Critic 

"Snatch" is young. chic and ener­getic. It looks like it belongs on MTV with its gangsters, quick cuts. fast zooms and killer soundtrack. 
The title is a bit misleading in that only four women share minimal screen time during the 
entire film. The original 

''Snatch"
(and more appropriate) title was "Diamonds," but a Kirk Douglas film was released in 1999 under the same name. out offive shamrocks The brains in marketing came up with "Snatch" 

Director: Guy Ritchie 
to target the young male 

audience this movie was Starring: Brad Pitt, Jason 
made for. Statham, Stephen Graham, The film is Guy
Ritchie's sophomore Alan Ford, Dennis Farina and 
effort after his debut Benicio Del Toro independent film "Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels" became a cult hit in 1999. "Snatch" seems like a more expensive sequel to "Lock," so much so that a few critics have called it "A Few More Barrels." 
The claims are valid; Ritchie employs much of the same cast in a similar story line involving guns, rob­bery and evil characters with long names like "Bullet Tooth Tony." 
The only noticeable difference is the addition of Brad Pitt as a wiry pikey (British trailer-trash) named "One Punch Mickey." The character is a cross between Tyler Durden and a lep­rechaun, and Pitt brings a great deal of comedy with a daffy "orish" accent. It is interesting to see how Pitt's increasing ugliness has made him more appealing to male audiences. 
The plot begins when bare-knuckle boxing promoters Turkish (Jason Statham) and Tommy (Stephen Graham) get into debt with Brick Top 
· (Alan Ford). Brick Top is a local crime don and occasional pig farmer. If any­one cannot repay a debt owed to him, they are fed to his pigs. 
Meanwhile, the Hassidic gambler Franky Four Fingers ("Traffic" star 
Benicio Del Toro) steals an 84-carat diamond and is en route 'to meet his Jewish Mafia boss Cousin Avi in New York when he finds a casino in London. But Cousin Avi (Dennis Farina) 
· doesn't want to lose his diamond to a casino, so he flies to London.before . all hell breaks loosfl. As everyone well knows, Ritchie is the new husband of pop icon Madonna. And like Madonna, Ritchie is ded­
icated to his art. 
"Snatch" is a very courageous exer­cise in film style. The entire movie feels like a music video. For 2 1/2 hours the camera never stops moving and cutting. The plot changes so much that if you blink for a second you might be lost for 30 minutes. 
The amount of planning that must've gone into so many shots at different angles is mind-boggling. The scenes of Cousin Avi flying across the Atlantic are cool and happen so quickly that, in a matter of two seconds, we see him buy a plane ticket, board a plane, sit down, do a shot and declare at cus­toms. "don't go to England." 
The bare-knuokle boxing matches are somewhat reminiscent of "Fight Club," but the adrenaline brought out to sounds of Oasis' "F----'n in the 


Brad Pitt stars as Irish, bare-knuckle boxer "One Punch Mickey" in Guy 
Ritchie's kinetic new film. "Snatch." 
Bushes" as Mickey enters the ring sur­passes even David Fincher's censored masterpiece. It makes everyone ­even pacifists -want to jump into the ring. 
"Snatch" is probably more of what Ritchie originally wanted for "Lock." It surpasses "Lock" in that it is quicker and louder, but the similarities of the two films are what keep this film from perfection. It's time that. Ritchie dis­cover a lesson that his elder bride learned long ago: you must reinvent yourself to stay on top. 
MOVIE REVIEW 

Make a 'Pledge' not to see this movie 
By LIAM DACEY 
Scene Movie Critic 

The crime thriller "The Pledge." directed by Sean Penn, stars Jack Nicholson as a retiring cop in Northern Nevada whose last case involves the mur­der of a young girl. Based on Friedrich Durenmatt's 1957 book, Nicholson makes a histrionic "pledge" to overall plot. the victim's parents to capture the murderer of For example, Nicholson is "thrown off' the hunt their child. The lead suspect, a mentally challenged by a Christian preacher believed to be the killer. Native American (Benicio Del Toro) who was seen This sidetrack only leads to an unfulfilling dead end near the area of the murder, is subsequently appre-that does not relate to the rest of the film in the 

. hended. After this suspicious character commits least. suicide in a rage behind bars. the case is closed and Another example of "The Pledge's" lack of cohe­Nicholson leaves for retirement. siveness occurs when Nicholson finds 
If the movie had ended there it "The Pledge" a link behind the killings that consists could have saved some sense of of the porcupines given to the victims decency. However, before Nicholson by a "Wizard" prior to their deaths. leaves for retirement he "gets a feel­t These pieces of the mystery are juxta­
t 

ing" (as characters often do in these posed in a laughable manner. It fits 
our offive shamrocks

situations) that the killer is still at together like a bad episode of large. From here the movie's cliches Director: Sean Penn "Murder, She Wrote." 
grow expon.entially as it loses all cred­Surprisingly. the ending is atypical ibility in its increasing outrageous-Starring: Jack Nicholson, for a crime thriller, but it fails to add ness. Robin Wright Penn and closure at a time when it is much 
Nicholson becomes completely needed. At the end of a long journey, obsessed with the case and believes Benicio Del Toro the film only brings out Nicholson's 
(after hearing the account of a 17­year-old girl) that there may be other similar killings committed in the same area. 
Nicholson bases this hypothesis on the circum­stantial evidence that there were three blonde­haired, 8-year-old girls who were killed within the same proximity. Coincidentally, they were all wear• ing red dresses. Nicholson moves to the town of the killings and shortly thereafter meets a mother (Robin Wright Penn) and her young daughter. 
Of course, Nicholson and Wright Penn fall in love, and the daughter is put in danger of being killed by the serial killer, who only Nicholson believes is still at large. For the rest of the film. the daughter is seen only in a red dress to heighten the suspense. The movie takes unnecessary, laughable twists and introduces characters who have no relevance to the 
personal failure. Is he more upset that he could not fulfill the pledge to the victim's parents, or is he disappointed with his own inner self? 
The film should have focused on this question more and avoided the unnecessary plot twists. The opportunity was sorely missed to make this a much more profound movie. 
The only bright spot in the movie is Nicholson's vivid performance, which some could argue is one of his best. It is unfortunate that it had to go to waste on such a disappointing film. 
Sean Penn tries to go into the mind of an obsessed man who is struggling with his inner demons. Sadly, "The Pledge" is too uneven and embellished to accomplish Penn's goal. Perhaps he should stick to acting. 

Thursday, February I, 2001 page 13 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Elements of 'Vampire' don't add up 
mania. 

By CHRIS BANNISTER Both Malkovich and Dafoe shine 
Scene Movie Critic 
during their respective monologues, 
which are well written and explore 

Vampire films have been a staple of the darker limits of filmmaking, reali­
the film industry since its infancy. ty and the human soul. For example, 
They have ranged from comical to the monologue in which Murnau elu­
sexy to terrifying and everywhere in cidates the sacrifices required for art 
between. "Shadow of the Vampire" creates ari interesting debate over 
meditates on the making of vampire what the true nature of art is. 
films. and films as a whole, by explor­These debates are further explored.
ing a fictional premise based on the in the film's photographic style and 
!iiming of "Nosferatu," a vampire film camera work. In particular, the use of created by premier German director extreme contrasts in lighting and 
F.W. Murnau in 1922. shadows t'ollows and re-evaluates the 
In ''Shadow of the Vampire," Expressionist style of the originalMurnau. played by John Malkovich, is "Nosferatu." obsessed with making a realistic vam­Thus, with these core clements pire film and, to that end. has secretly accomplished with obtained Max Shreck such skill, how can (Willem Dafoe), a real "Shadow of the "Shadow of the 
vampire, to play the Vampire" ultimately part of Nosferatu. Vampire" flounder? The film 
Murnau hides the 
fails because it vampire's true identity 
becomes too con­
by stating that his cerned with accom­rather eccentric plishing the elements behavior is a result of out offive shamrocks that it forgets to cre­
his practice of never ate a whole. Basically, coming out of charac-Director: E. Elias Merhige it forgets that, at its ter while making the heart, it is a vampiremm. Starring: John Malkovich and film. It is never able 
However, as the film Willem Dafoe to effectively accom­progresses, the tenu­plish the most basic ous bargain struck goal of a vampire film: to create fear 
between Murnau and Shreck begins to and suspense. collapse as the vampire's blood lust Also, there are too many characters leads him to make victims out of the begging to be explored more thor­crew. oughly. For example, the second film 
Separately, the various elements of director and the star actress are both "Shadow of the Vampire" are each interesting characters, but we are superb; however, the lilm ultimately only given hints of their inner work­fails to bring the elements together as ings. The film takes time away from a whole and ultimately flounders. creating suspense or examining its 
The performances, the monologues main characters by dabbling in of the characters and the photograph­sketches that lead nowhere. ic style are each elements worthy of There are so many episodes in praise. Both Willem Dafoe and John "Shadow of the Vampire" that it does 
Malkovich turn in great performances not have time to really lengthen its as their respective characters. most important moments to create The make-up effects used to trans­suspense. If the film had pared down form Dafoe into Nosferatu makes him its scope, examining only a few char-almost wholly unrecognizable; yet. he . acters and episodes, it would have 
is able to communicate a person with­functioned more effectively as a in the vampire that entices a mixture whole. of fear and sympathy. As it stands, '.'Shadow of the 
Meanwhile, Malkovich is able to Vampire," although intriguing, is only communicate Murnau's artistic slightly above mediocre, and thus cre­hunger that pushes him towards ates a rather lukewarm response. 

MOVIE REVIEW 

gifted writer, Jamal seeks William's
By CHRISTINE KRALY 
help in becoming even better. William 
Scene Movie Critic 

agrees as long as he doesn't tell any­
one that he's "found Forrester." 
When a movie character is hiding "Good Will Hunting" director Gus something, the screenplay usually Van Sant creates some terrific scenes focuses on an interesting, entertaining between Connery and Brown, and the way to find out his dirty little secret. actors fall into their roles with charm. 
Usually the secluded person is just The funniest moments come when waiting for someone to break down Jamal proves himself worthy of the walls he's built around himself William's sarcastic ribbing and writ­
and bring him out of seclusion. In ing challenges. "Finding Forrester," Jamal Wallace Much like Van Sant's Matt Damon­(Rob Brown) is the young man with Ben Affleck tear jerker, "Forrester" is 
the sledgehammer, ready to demolish predictably heroic. The audience William Forrester's (Sean Connery) knows William will befriend Jamal fortress of solitude. · because it is an old story: boy needs 
Jamal is gifted, on and off the bas­guidance; boy meets older man; older ketball court. His impressive test man becomes boy's friend and scores catch the attention of one of teacher. 
the best private high schools in New The chemistry between Brown and York. Jamal leaves the comfort of Connery, though, is entertaining and friends and his inner-city school to genuine -even enough to make attend the privileged institution. viewers forget that they essentially 
His new school brings out all the know what's going to happen. challenges of making The movie doesn't new friends, meeting get overly psychologi­higher academic stan­"Finding cal. Incidents in dards and playing for a William's past cause competitive basketball Forrester" him to shut himself team. What it does not off from society, and bring out are any truly 
this prevents him new elements to the my­from doing the thing
f1J

sch oo I-and-life-are­he loves best: writing. changing plot. When a But the film spends
out offive shamrocks
movie character just enough time changes schools, there Director: Gus van Sant addressing William's is always one person of personal problems.the same sex who offers Starring: Sean Connery, avoiding clouding the friendship and another Rob Brown, F. Murray Abraham, importance of the who, for some reason, 
Anna Paquin and Busta Rhymes film: his relationship
automatically hates the with Jamal. main character. Punny and dramat­
With his newfound enemy -a ic, Connery delivers one of his best wealthy basketball teammate -and performances; but it's the new faces friend and guide Claire (Anna who deliver the unexpected surprises. 
Paquin), Jamal struggles to fit in Sixteen-year-old Brown makes an socially and academically. Little amazing film debut as Jamal. and screen time is spent dealing with his there is even an impressive appear­social life in the new school; much ance by rap star Busta Rhymes as more is devoted to Jamal's English Jamal's rap-aspiring brother. class. It is in this class that he discov­Near the end of the film. audience ers that-the strange man in the win­members find themselves wanting dow across the basketball court is the Connery as their teacher. Impatient once-famous writer William and entertaining, erratic and uncon­Forrester. ventional, Connery's William is moti­
Tucked away in seclusion, Williarri vational and caring. The Scottish­is unable to cope with life outside his accented wit he delivers throughout apartment doors and the fame of the the movie has everyone wishing Pulitzer-prize winning talent he show­James Bond were teaching them the cased four decades earlier. Already a do's and don'ts of better writing. 

Thursday, February 1, 200l page 14 

JOSE CUELLAR/ The Observer 
Three Keenan Hall residents prepare for the big opening night of their annual comedy event, "The Keenan Revue." The show premieres tonight at 7:30. 
Keenan's kings of comedy 
Like its predecessors, this year's "Keenan Revue" is offensively funny 
Cunningham, guarantees the funny "DART 2001." One can
By MERIDETH PIERCE 
"same quality of Keenan Revue only imagine the venues for 
Scene Wricer 
humor" as seen before. humor with DART. For those who did not see the Because they reach for every
It might be surrounded in show in previous years. the angle, some skits are slightly

controversy. but it is here, and 
Keenan Revue humor could be questionable. But some skits ... It is funny. defined as witty but asinine, are just so stupid that they
The 25th anniversary of the 

where no joke is too low and become, in turn, quite funny."SMC-Tacular Keenan Revue" the source of censorship is from This category would include the 
will be held in the newly reno­the good rector himself. This short "Wheel Chair Bit" and vated O'Laughlin auditorium 
was obvious in the opening "The Happy Warbler 
tonight, Friday and Saturday at song, which is quoted "recycled Impressions Troupe." The 
7:30. If you do not already have old bits, guys in fake tits." The Keenan members leave the 
your tickets for the popular and words are complemented with a stage while you laugh wonder­
controversial show, you will 
surprisingly coordinated dance ing, "what in the world ... ?" 
have to hear about it from your routine that ends with the Even if you are a tough audi­friends. Last week 500 tickets dancers in less clothing than ence member, the u·ncontrol­
were freely handed out to stu­they first appeared wearing. lably funny "Why Keenan Men dents at Saint Mary's in 10 min­
There are many popular top­Shouldn't do Ballet" will at least utes. The remaining 1,500 tick­
ics of humor this year in the crack a smile on your face. ets were handed out at Notre revue. In a skit called "Behind Without ruining the surprise of 
Dame in less than 30 minutes. 
the Music," the steps of the· the skit, just imagine four men 
The 2001 Keenan Revue 

Notre Dame Marching Band are sharing their secret love of bal­required much more planning traced through history. This let, and then performing it in 
than many would think. The 
hysterical historical telling tight leotards. 
Revue demanded that the plan­comes complete with huge pro­Next to Keenan boys doingning process begin at the end of jected pictures accompanied by ballet. two other skits stand out last school year. 
clever captions frorri the story­as the most humorous. One 
The boys of Keenan wrote 

teller. called "Natural 5" is Keenan's 
roughly 2,800 letters to alumni In another skit, the audience own traditional hoy hand. It asking for donations. They still 
is deceived by the sweet piano really is something you need to came up about $5,000 short of player who plays and sings sen­see. It is performed complete
the $11,500 cost of the produc­sitively. Jt is very important to with cordless head mikes and tion. 
pay attention to the words here pre-recorded music. 
The real crunch time for the for you will find the entire song The final skit of the evening, 

group came after Christmas 
is about a cross-dressing man called "Uncomfortable break when 75 skits auditioned named Barry who loves his vel­Situations," provides a way out . 
for the show and under 25 were 
vet underwear. The humor in for anyone who has felt 
chosen to actually perform. 
this skit is found in the serious­mocked or ridiculed in the 
.._ Originally formed in 1976 by ness of the performers, and it course of the evening. If at any just might find some of that in about the entire dorm of Keenan RAs Tom Lenz and Rick makes for a very good laugh. point in the show you have the bands that play at the Keenan bashing all the aspects
Thomas, the Revue was meant 
Many times the funny side of found yourself offended in any beginning and end of the acts. of their college lives that have to be a fun, non-alcoholic alter­the skits is found in its scary­way, shape or form. just wait The music is a refreshing addi­any potential for humor. Almost native to partying in Michigan likeness to real life. Whereas This last skit uses all forms of tion in comparison to the crass everyone and everything is where the legal drinking age you may never really see some­cheap and dirty humor. The skits. The boys rendition of mocked in some form in the was 18. Today, director Grant thing as extreme as the stuff on entirety of Keenan Hall might "Run Around Sue" is in fact course of the evening. If you are Gholson says the revue serves the stage, your finishing as well be on stage begging you very cute and a good end to the a person to laugh with the peo­to "entertain students, and to thought is, "that is so true." to laugh at them, not with · first act. ple on stage, then the Keenan make fools of ourselves." 
This is found in "Defense of them. However, the main idea Revue is for you. You might
After seeing the Revue, it 

Honor" as two guys beat each If you think you will attend behind the Keenan Revue is its even love it so much that youdoes exactly that. 
other for no apparent reason. It the Keenan Revue not for its low-balled "Saturday Night will want your very own $10 One of the main writers, Ryan is also found in the especially humor but for its talent, you Live" type of humor. It is not Keenan Revue T-shirt. 

Thursday, February l, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 1 S 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Connecticut-Tennessee IDatchup loses edge 
Associated Press 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. The Connecticut-Tennessee saga takes a twist Thursday. Neither is ranked No. 1 and each has a loss. 
The Lady Vols' Tamika Catchings will sit on the bench while UConn's Svetlana Abrosimova appears to be 
-back at full speed heading into the game, the second meeting of the women's basketball powerhouses this season. "This is one of the few times that the free world is not riding on the outcome of this game," the second-ranked Huskies' coach, Geno Auricmma, said. Maybe the teams arc not playing for the national cham­pionship, but No. 3 Tennessee's 24,535-seat Thompson-Boling Arena will be near capacity. The teams, who have com­bined to win five of the last six national titles, meet for the 13th time since Connecticut vaulted to No. 1 for the first time after beating Tennessee on Jan. 16, 1995. "Great battles have come out of this game." Lady Vols senior Semeka Randall said. "It's a great game period for women's basketball." Connecticut (17-1) won the season's first meeting, 81-76 on Dec. 30 in Hartford. to take a 7-5 lead in the all-time series. Tennessee (21-1) has won 10 straight since the loss, even though Catchings' season came to a halt Jan. 15 when she tore a ligament in her right knee. On the very same day. the Huskies were overpowered in a 92-76 loss at Notre Dame, ending a 33-gamc winning streak. Lady Vols coach Pat Summitt is looking forward to the matchup not just to even the score but to evaluate her team. "It's a great way to measure our progress from the last time we played and also to see how this team will respond in front of a packed house, playing against a tnam that has had a lot of success against us of late," she said. The game won't be the same without Catchings, who scored 17 points in the last game as the Lady Vols came back from a 17-point deficit. The first 1,000 fans at the arena will get 
CLASSIFIEDS 

light blue headbands like Catchings wore in games. 
'Tm disappointed Tamika is not playing. The kids are too, [and) disappointed, too, for her. It takes a little bit away from the game," Auriemma said. 
Randall, always known for her emotional leadership. has made it hard to miss Catchings. She has averaged 
12 .6 points in the last five games and has thrived against UConn, scoring 17.2 points a game in her four-year career. 
"We're not asking any one or two players to make up for the loss of Tamika. We're chal­lenging this basketball team by committee," Summitt said. "I have seen individuals improve play s.!nce the time she went down. 
UConn has changed, too. Abrosimova, the Huskies' main scoring threat, scored just four points in 11 minutes in the last game against Tennessee due to back spasms. But she appears recovered after a 25-point per­formance against Syracuse on Saturday. 
"I'm ready to go. The whole team is ready to go. We've passed through some tough times. We just really want to play against them," Abrosimova said. 
Connecticut's other All­America, Shea Ralph, who scored 15 points in the first game, is in a scoring slump. She has made three of 15 field­goal attempts in the last three games. 
But "come Thursday night, she'll be out there like she always is and she'll be playing 11O percent," Auriemma said. 
This game completes a two-year deal for a home-and­home series. 

The coaches are mulling over how many games they want to play next year. 
Last season, the teams met three times -a win for each in the regular season and the national championship won by the Huskies. 
Summitt said it would be hard to fit in a second game again. 
For Auriemma, the home­and-home series is just getting tiresome. 
"I think it causes more headaches that it solves, but I think it's fun for the fans. It's fun for the players," he said. "It's gotten to the point where everybody treats it like we have to go through this again. It's probably not worth it any­more." 
Say that before tipoff. 
Thousands honor crash victims 
Associated Prus 
STILLWATER, Okla. 

Thousands of people gathered at Oklahoma State Wednesday to remember what was lost in a snowy field in Colorado. 
Ten people, including two reserves on the school's basketball team, a popular TV sports anchor and five others in the team's traveling party, died when their small plane crashed 40 miles east of Denver on Saturday. 
Students and fans of the Cowboys joined family and friends in mourning the victims. They placed flowers under the school statue of a rider on horseback and placards on a nearby fence. 
Students lined up outside Oklahoma State's athletic complex three hours before a memorial ser­vice was to begin. Many said it was time to begin the healing process. 
"l think maybe this will start bring­ing some closure," senior Laura Downing said. "Everyone has been walking around campus lately kind of in a daze," 
Afternoon classes were canceled so students could attend the memorial or watch it on TV. 
Families of the victims and other special guests mingled among hun­dreds of bouquets of flowers before the memorial service started. Some stopped to write messages on an 8­foot tall board. 
Many of the notes, scrawled in the Oklahoma State colors of orange and black, were written to all 10 victims. 
Inside the gymnasium were large photographs of those who died ­players Nate Fleming and Dan Lawson; sports information employee Will Hancock; director of basketball operations Pat Noyes; trainer Brian Luinstra; student manager Jared Weibcrg; broadcast engineer Kendall Durfey; KWTV sports anchor Bill Teegins; pilot Denver Mills; and co­pilot Bjorn Fahlstrom. 
They died aboard the twin-engine plane returning from Oklahoma State's game against Colorado. It crashed in a remote field less than 20 minutes into the flight. 
"Will. we feel so cheated to have lost you so soon -and yet so fortu­nate and blessed to have you in our lives," said one note on the message board signed by Julie, Ed, Sarah, Kyle and Holly. 
Another was to "10 special angels." 
"You gave so much and brought happiness to so many." it said. "Thanks for all the memories. You will not be forgotten." 
The Observer accept• dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m, to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al das:.ifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per characccr per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the righr to edit all classifieds fur content without issuing refunds. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Found: Watch at DeBartolo Hall Must identify to claim 
Found: Glasses at Debartolo Musi identify to claim 
lost: SMC Ring Fri. Night 1/26, blw Lafayette 28 and 720 Washington St. Call 284-4378 $$ Reward 
FOR RENT 
3-5 bedroom homes close to campus 232-2595 Houses for Rent 1) 5-br $900/month 2) 4-br. $1000/month 3) 3-br. $600/monlh We'll make almost any changes to the houses. Call Bill at 675-0776 
House for lease 7/01 4/5 bedrooms. 3 blocks to campus 773-486-8822 
All the good houses are not gone! We have 2, 4&5 bedroom homes 5 minutes from campus. Dave 291-2209. Macos@michiana.org 
WANTED 
Cooks and delivery drivers wanted. Call Boracho Inc. at 258-9834. 
Parents who are ND grads seek older female babysitter to care for two gif1s ages 7 & 9, one or two weekend evenings & occasionally weekdays or evenings in our home. Must have own care. Call Judith & leave message: 
287-0260 
Summer jobs! 
camp Tecumseh YMCA 
is now hiring for cabins. equestrian, aquatics and support staff. We are a Christian camp located near Lafayette, Ind. 
Season is 10 weeks. Salary $1900-$2300. Representatives will be on campus on Feb. 8. Call for an application today! Call 1-800-362-2267 (www camptecumseh c>rql It's an experience that 
lasts a liletirnel Pet Refuge, a no kill animal shelter just 1 Omin from campus needs vol­unteers and fosters Please call 256-0886 or visit~ gelreluge !:;Qffi and email us 

The Early Childhood Development Center, located at Saint Mary's College and the University of Notre Dame, is looking for volunteers who enjoy young children. If you would be interested in spend­ing 2 hours a week reading chil­dren's books, buildings with blocks and singing songs with children, please call: Kari Alford at 284-4693 (ECDC-SMCJ or Debbie Hart at 631-3344 (ECDC-ND) Please join our fun fille4':lays. 
FOR SALE 

Beautiful brass bed, queen size, with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame. All new, never used, still in plastic. $235 219-862-2082 
Phone cards $20 -2601 min with 
.49 cent surcharge or $20 -362 
min with no lees 634-421 o Sara or 
634-1146 Claudia 
TICKETS 

Need tickets to ND v. Seton Hall on 2/18 Call 243-9306 
2 tickets for the 2/18 men's basket­ball game vs. Seton Hall. Please call 4·3593. 
PERSONAL 
JUNIOR PARENT WEEKEND Have your parents stay in real "Irish Comfort" at more affordable prices than area hotels. Gourmet breakfast brunch included. Call The Wild Irish Rose Inn at 277• 4303 Or visit our site: ~.i[i!ltl[Q:il! !;QI]] 
Twin -my sweatpants are suffocating mel 
Chiste. Cheese Steak, Chiste. 
Hey Mark. Temptation Island .. tempting, but .. unfortunately work calls 

\ 
\ 
\ 
\ 

Calendar o.f Events 

Searching for God.com
Monday-Friday. Jaou,try 29-fe ary2
112 Badin Hall and 103 Hes 
· ·· · · ·· 
Sign-np for Emmaus. ·· ... by Frank Santoni 
Beginning Monday. Jiooani:2Q;"; . •~·. The other night I made up my mind that I was going to find God. So I did what anyone
through February 19 .. · ' 
looking for unlimited information on any topic does these days. I turned to the Web. I have
Sign-up for Freshmaa R,e!featlM ,.1 . . < .. 
become convinced during the last few years of the Internee boom that if I can not find some­
:_(Febru;uy 23--Z4, 20f?ll< <;'., ):1:-/'>[:.'~s.. ·:..•C Cf 
Puk up appliclltitnu •t.103 HN/itwgb.~lw"-"Y ,: :., thing on the web, then it must not exist. So I set off into cyberspace confident that my efforts ()Y print on, out on/ine at::' .. · . . .......· .· · · would be fruitful and enlightening. wurw.nd.edtd,,.,minutt'y/freshm'1<tJf,ir,ttihtt,,J. 
; ·.'. First stop, God.com. Much to my surprise, no such site exists. My computer told me to 
, 

check the address and try again. So I did, thinking, surely God must have paid the 75 bucks to
Friday. February 2 

register a domain name. Nope. So, I tried God.org. God, after all, despite what some may
Log Chapel. 5:00 p.m~ ·· · ·· 

Dfa de la Candelaria Mass·· 
claim, is a not-for-profit enterprise and would qualify as a dot.org. Still no luck. All I got this Dinner io follow in Faculty l:>ining llooJ#),6;30 p.,am::i time was an offer to buy the rights to the name myself. Thanks, but no thanks. I am not about to cyber-squac on one of God's potential net addresses. Then, I chought maybe God
Friday.Saturday, Februatv:2~;a;.: :;: .,,>:>;(" J ·· 
was trying to be ahead of the web-naming curve and set up shop at God.net. Wrong again. 
SacredHea[tParisb CeQ¼'tc.:·, '..'-'··.•. 
·Seruof Retreat #4 >"'."t·· ,, ~ '· :· :·: ·: .; That just tied up my computer as it searched, without results, for the site. I was beginning to 
• • ! ~: t .\ a• ' 
get worried. 

Friday-Saturday.. February2::r•:·;._· 
I punched in iGod.com, myGod.com, Godonline.com. Nothing. I even tried
Undenwood Retreat Center' . . . . 
bigguyupstairs.corn. Zero. I saw a glimmer of hope at Dios.com, but all I found there was a
Leaming to Tulk.About.Race·Retl'.eat 
blinking eye accompanied by a flat rendition of the 200 I: A Space Odyssey theme music. I 
-Sunday, February 4, 1;30 p,m; .· didn't even consider God.gov at the time, though who knows what could happen under Zsibm t:@11 Cbapel . . 
President Bush's new proposal. God is the original faith-based organization. Empty-handed, I
Spanish Mass .·· . · · 
was determined not to press on.
Presider: Fe. J. S~l.~,_~!•S 

Alta Vista, my search engine duJour, would certainly produce more useful results, I sunday,·February ~1:. 1Q;Qpa.ro,,; thought. I typed "god" in to the blank field at the top of the page. Almost instantly it gener­Notre Dame Room', L,aFoFtunEt • ated 3,947,355 links to web pages with references to God. That's more like it. Among the RCIA Class.. ·· .:?... .'·1 .,rt<:·.:, .,..... matches most looked like home pages for various religions and churches. Close, but not quite
Mass at llijS ~~ : ; .,, , •,.,,.,,..._.. 
God. Worse yet, I located more Monday-Tuesday. February:5-6;•11:30 pm-1opm , options even farther off the mark 
I punched in iGod.com, myGod.com,
St. Paul's Chapel;· FisherHalP ~·r '· ... at the bottom of the page . .EucharisticAdoration .·' C~''\'. ·} 
Godonline.com. Nothing. I even tried "Shop the web for god," one link offered. "Find Yellow Page 
Beginning Monday, February§ ., .· 
bigguyupstairs.com. Zero. I saw a
through Februaiy 23,, · .. · .... :· .. ,,., , .. , listings for god," another prom­
S• .£. Se • .. n_ . #,,::,,,.,·,". ,hr:-,",··,· ..,..,
it;% .or,. ,mor~~ J;>•"'··.. · .• .. cs'.·.·,·• ... ··; glimmer of hope at Dios.com, but all I ised. Then there was my favorite: "Find god and millions of other found th,e-re was a bHn·kh-19 eye cool items at eBay!" After some
~ti~~~1~:;:·::1 
consideration, I concluded I had
"~~dul~in~~i'!-Bbfi!.:2.1 ,:·.....; L···>··1 accompanied by a flat rendition of the 
neither the time nor the money Tuesday. Fet>ruafy§,·:Z::OQ~p;~~ .. /; 
,,. 2001: A Space Odyssey theme music. to spend outbidding anyone for ·Siegtm,d Hall Qhaper ,'.~ ·:·:;: ; ::.· :···. ' 
God or any of the millions of 
·.Co~atlon•~sio~Jf::5\;~·}f;;'.·,·· · other cool item, for that matter. Tuesday; February•§, Z:39p.:mr,.' · · , Alta Vista's 3.9 million matches did little to move me closer to my goal. I was getting 134 Zahm Half .• '.'' (;, :::;;;;,;_~>:· ., 'f,.¥ ·',•J:; nervous again. I needed something that could give more order to my findings.Iii.formation n'.t • :fi ~:Cti~d&:~nilti"lii 
I tried my old standby: Yahoo. Its categories and sub-categories have an old-fashioned
Qvfarc;h.10:.tn~··. ,~:tl: .s0t-.}~;'1c:\}CJ 
Dewey Decimal system feel to them. This time, my search for "god" generated matches in 111 different categories and 2099 unique sites. Now, we were getting somewhere, I thought. But a cursory review of the results suggested otherwise. Among the top matches, "God & Computers: Minds, Machines, and Metaphysics," "God Defend New Zealand,"and "God Hates Figs." 
Perhaps, I just needed to be a bit more direct about the whole thing. 
Ask.com and you shall receive. This site allows visitors to type in a question in natural language. So I asked it, "Where can I find God?" Among the results this time: a menu of more than 30 religious traditions listed in alphabetical order, inexplicably topped, however, by a link to paganism. But just below the list, I hit paydirt. There it was: The Homepage of God. In no time, I found myself on an odd little German website, the point ofwhich I never quite determined. It cited time as God's greatest invention, Santa Claus as God's brother and then just got more bizarre from there. 
The web was getting me no where in my search for God. I was getting desperate. My theory about information on the web, or the lack of it, was calling into question God's very existence. The web had never failed me before. I had always been able to find any type of information I needed in minutes. 
That's just it. In an age of instant information, God is anything but. God takes time with us. God defies our information-on-demand sensibilities, even though we may grow impatient or frustrated. There is nothing new about God's economy. Authentic relationships are still its hottest commodity and grace its currency. When we seek God out, we rarely look in the right places and when we catch glimpses of the Divine, the answers are not always clear. 
This is the challenging reality we face: while our minds learn to download and access information at an ever-quickening pace, our spirits are still nourished by a timeless Creator. If we ever hope to find God, we must quit demanding the same instant response we demand from our computers and ourselves. We must be able to unplug ourselves from the everythingnow.com expectations of the world we live in and embrace God's timeless rhythm of 
life. . That's deep stuff. Maybe, I should pay a visit to contemplate.com .... 
C-M 
OttnplJ) Ministry 


Thursday, February 1, 2001 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

Kennan Revue  8pm  O'Laughlin Auditorium  
Acoustic Cafe  9pm  Lafortune  
SUB Movies  10:30pm  DeBartolo IO I DeBartolo I 55  Charlie's Angels Bring It On  
FRIDAY  

Track and Field Meyo Invitational Loftus Fieldhouse Men's Swimming vs. Cleveland State 2pm Awadagin Pratt-piano master class 2pm Annenburg Auditorium Downhill Ski Trip to Swiss Valley Library Circle 5pm (register by I/31) Kennan Revue 8pm O'Laughlin Auditorium Snite Movie 7:30 & 9:45 Annenberg Auditorium American Psycho SUB Movies 8 & I0:30pm DeBartolo IO I Charlie's Angels 
DeBartolo 155 Bring It On Alumni/PE Formal College Football Hall of Fame McGlinn, Walsh Hall Dances 
SATURDAY 
Track and Field Meyo Invitational Loftus Fieldhouse Harlem Globetrotters Game 7:30 JACC Comedy Night 8-1 Ipm Reckers "They're Back For More" Kennan Revue 8pm O'Laughlin Auditorium Snite Movie 7:30 & 9:45 Annen berg Auditorium American Psycho SUB Movies 8 & I0:30pm DeBartolo I O I Charlie's Angels 
DeBartolo 155 Bring It On 
SUNDAY ( 
Women's Tennis vs. Illinois State 9am Eck Tennis Pavilion Women's Tennis vs.Western Michigan 2pm Eck Tennis Pavilion 
Spanish Mass r:30pm S/K Chapel Soul Food Sunday 5-9 pm ND Room in LaFun 

Thursday, February 1, 2001

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS 
escape the 
Give a cold shoulder to your "usual" night out & warm-up your winter with a sizzling taste of summer: a tender filet (l 3.99), t-bone (17.99) or our specially, 12oz. of USDA prime New York strip (14.95). Lighter options, too! 
HOW OP(H ioR LAT( Hl611T ,. GOU-al B{;ND1G BIGG(;GT PA.l<,TY< 
DINING fRIDAY &SATURDAY 
222 S MICHIGAN, 50UTH BEl'ID
222 S. MICHIGAN•SOUTH BEND•219.234.5200 
219-234-5200
$1 COVER (WITH COLLEGE ID, MUST BE 21) AND LOTS OF OTHER STUFF FOR A BUCK, TOO, CALL THE HfARllAND CONCERT & EVENT UNE 219.25 I.2S68•MORE PICTURES @WWW.HEARlUNDSOUTHBEND.COM 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Ex-Giants adillit cheating in 1951 
dition in baseball. Opponents Giants stole signs during home Associated Press 
suspected New York Mets man­games in the last 10 weeks of ager Bobby Valentine of the 1951 season. New York
NEW YORK 

employing cameras to do it in trailed the Dodgers by 13 1/2The Giants stole the pennant! 
1997 and Boston manager games on Aug. 11 before mak­The Giants stole the pennant! 
Jimmy Williams accused ing up the deficit in only 53For a half-century, fans of 
Cleveland of doing it in 1999. days.
the old Brooklyn Dodgers 
Valentine. by the way, is the The Journal said infielder
claimed that's what Bobby 
son-in-law of Ralph Branca -Henry Schenz and coachThomson and the New York the pitcher who surrendered Herman Franks relayed signals 
Giants did in 1951. Now, 
Thomson's horner that ended from the Giants' center-fieldthere's evidence that maybe it the 1951 pennant playoff. clubhouse -the wall was 483 happened just that way. 
Thomson's three-run drive in feet from home plate -to theThe Wall Street Journal on the bottom of the ninth inning bullpen with a buzzer system
Wednesday quoted Hall of 
at the Polo Grounds lifted the created by electrician Abraham Fame outfielder Monte lrvin, Giants over the Dodgers 5-4 in Chadwick. Yvars said he then catcher Sal Yvars and pitcher the deciding Ga,ne 3. relayed signals to hitters. 
Al Gel.tel as admitting they 
The "Shot Heard 'Round the "My wife never liked me tostole catchers' signs to over­World" became the most talk about it," Yvars told the come a 13 1/2­
replayed Journal. "She gets embar­

game deficit 
moment in rassed"

and win base­"Every hitter knew 
baseball Franks refuted the account. ball's most what was coming ... history, "I haven't talked about it in 
famous pennant Made a big difference." with Giants 49 years," he said. "If I'm ever race. 
announcer asked about it, I'm denying"Every hitter 
R u s s everything."

knew what was Al Gettel 
Hodges Irvin contradicted him, say­coming," Gettel funner Giants pitcher screaming, ing: "He's sitting there with a 

said. "Made a 
" T h e telescope and he'd relay it to big difference." 

Giants win the bullpen.''
Irvin said the the pen­Thomson. homered with one 

Giants have 
nant! The Giants win the pen­out. At the time. Whiteynothing to be ashamed of. 
nant!" Lockman was on second base"Everything we did was on Thomson said he didn't take and Clint Hartung was on 
our own," he told The 
stolen signs when he connected third.
Associated Press on 
off Branca. Lockman said he was unableWednesday. "Our accomplish­"It would take a little away to pick up the signs byments were true and genteel." 
from me in my mind if I felt I Brooklyn catcher Rube Walker, 
The AP reported the sign 

got help on the pitch," he was who was playing in place of 
stealing on March 22, 1962, 
quoted as saying. "My answer injured Roy Campanella. With citing an unidentified source is no." a runner on second, as is the who was with the Giants. 
"Stealing signs is nothing to practice, Walker switched theStealing signs by players and be proud of," Thomson said. signs and made them morecoaches is a long-standing tra-Several players said the elaborate. 
PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM 
Woods injures knee in incident with fan, may not play in tourney 
Associated Press 
PEBBLE BEACH 

Tiger Woods sprained a ligament in his left knee Wednesday when he stepped awkwardly on a man's ankle while leaving the 18th green at Pebble Beach. 
He said he was not sure ifhe would be able to play this week. 
Woods, still limping two hours after the accident, was asked what the odds were that he would be unable to defend his title in the Pebble Beach National Pro-Am. 
"They're up there," he said. "We'll see what happens." 
Woods was swarmed by autograph seekr,rs as hr, left thA 18th green, walking briskly and trying to sign whatever programs and hats where thrust in front of him. 
One man, who had been hounding him for autographs during his practice round. tried to position himself in front of the pack, and Woods' inadvertently stepped on his ankle, hyperextending his knee. 
"A lot of fans just kind of came down on top of me," Woods said. "One guy ran in front. I stepped on his ankle, and my weight going forward and his weight coming back ... I hyperextended my knee." 
Woods winced immediately, glowered at the man and grabbed the back of his leg as he hobbled up a hill. He tried to hit balls after lunch, but couldn't. 
"No way," Woods said. 

Woods, the No. 1 player in the world coming off a record-breaking season that included three straight major championships among his nine PGA Tour victories. is often swamped by fans after rounds. 
A security detail was with him, but some fans went under the 
ropes and tried to get close. 

"People get aggressive. That's the way it is," Woods said. "That's one reason we have security. Some of you say, 'Why do you have so much security?' It's for instances like this, so they don't happen. Unfortunately, it happened today." 
The man never did get his autograph and "he yelled at me for not 
signing," Woods said. 




Thursday, February I, 200 l 
The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
Saint Mary's College presents 
Friday 
February 16, 2001 
8:00 p.m. 
Saturday 
February 17, 2001 
8:00 p.m. 
Little Theatre 
..........,eo,,.,,,o
!'8{t£(.n_ 
~NOT'llt!....... "' 
Call the Saint Mary's box office for tickets: 
284-4626 


XFL 
Bets starting small for league opener 
Assodated l'rc!S 
(A",VEGAS 

Las Vegas bookmakers are bet­ting on Saturday's debut of the XFL -but not in a big way, at least not yet. 
The XFL. in turn, is hoping the mere fact that bels arc taken gives it the look of real sports. 
The maximum bettors can lay down on this weekend's oponing four games is $500 to $1,000, depending on the sports book. 
So far, few are lining up to throw their money dovvn on the Chicago Enforcers or I.he Orlando Hage, with some wagering the minimum $5. 
Hegardless of the light early action, some think that Las Vegas' sports books have given the nndgling league much-needed credibility. 
That's because the World Wrcslling Federation's Vince McMahon is the league's co­owner along with NBC. 
"Wil.h Vince McMahon heading it, it has brought a lot of skepti­cism and recognition," said Joe Lupo, manager for the Stardust hotel-casino's sports book, the first to hang tho opening line on the XFL la.sl week. 
But just because McMahon is associated with the scripted WWF, doesn't mean the XFL will be comparable in any way, Lupo said. 
"I believe McMahon is intelli­gent enough to know this sport won't be successful if there's a predetermined outcome," he said. "It would be another staged event. It might as well be football on Broadway. And we don't put wagers on events that have a known outcome." 
Nevada law prohibits betting on events in which the outcome 
"/ believe McMahon is intelligent enough to know this sport won 't be successful ifthere's a predetermined outcome. It would be another staged event. It might as well be football on Broadway. And we don't put wagers on events that have a known outcome." 
Joe Lupo bookmaker 

already is known. 
If the XFL is looking to Vegas for validation, the league must have integrity, Lupo said. 
"We can lose 11 loL of money," he said. 
Andy DeLuca, sports book man­ager at the Sahara hotel-casino, said sports betting will enhance the eight-team league. 
"The bottom line is people like to gamble," he said. "It makes a game a lot more interesting." 
The 10-game regular season begins less than a week after the Super Bowl, with NBC televising the New York/New Jersey Hitmen at the Las Vegas Outlaws at 8 
p.m. The majority of Las Vegas Strip sports books put odds on the new football league before the Super Bowl with the hope of attracting some action over the busiest sports betting weekend of the year. 
But it didn't talce, DcLuca said. 
"We have some little, teeny bets. Nothing to brag about yet," he said. "I think the action will pick up when people start watch­ing the games." 
Lupo hasn't seen a lot of money come in on the XFL, either, although none of the sports book operators is ready to take the $100,000 bets they accept on some NFL games. 
"People haven't seen these teams,"·Lupo said. "And the typi­cal bettor doesn't bet in advance. We'll see more money come in." 
Llttlc data about the teams and the players coupled with no his­torical information made it diffi­cult to set odds, Lupo said. 
"These lines are about as unpredictable as any we've ever hung," he said. "It's a little scary. That's why we're taking the con­servative approach and just book­ing straight betr,." 
The only road team favored Saturday is the Xtrcme, by four points at the San Francisco Demons. The Outlaws are 
_ favored bv 4 1/2 over the Hitmen, while the" Rage is favored by as much as nine points over the Enforcers. The Birmingham Thunderbolts are favored by 2 1/2 over the Memphis Maniax. While there are no proposition bets or over-under totals. the Imperial Palace sports book already has the Los Angeles Xtreme favored 2-1 to win the April 21 XFL championship, called "Big Game At The End." Las Vegas sports books man­agers say they were under pres­sure to accept bets, due to the combination of the league's games being televised on a major network and having a team in town. "Had it not been on a major network, we would have waited," Lupo said. "There's been much more attention than I anticipat­ed. " 'Tm kinda excited about the XFL," Cunningham said. "I hope it will be a big, big hit." 
NFL 

Culpepper plans to watch Bowl from field 
Associated Press 
HONOLULU 
More than 131 million people watched the Super Bowl on tele­vision, with another 72,000 in the stadium. 
Daunte Culpepper wasn't among them. 
T h e Minnesota Vikings' quarter­

backs says Culpepperit will stay that way until he plays for the NFL title himself. 'Tm not going until I'm play­ing," said Culpepper, whose team fell one win short of meet­ing the Baltimore Ravens in last Sunday's championship game_ "I promised myself that in my rookie year." Culpepper spent the week leading up to the Super Bowl in Tampa, Fla., but left a day before the game to go home to nearby Ocala, where he passed for 6,107 yards and 57 touch­downs in three seasons at Vanguard High before attending Central Florida. The 11th overall selection in the 1999 NFL draft, Culpepper played briefly in one game as a Vikings rookie, but was given the job this season and made the most of it, passing for 3,937 yards and 33 touchdowns and being selected as the NFC's starting quarterback in Sunday's Pro Bowl. "I knew I had the ability to make plays," Culpepper said. "With the team we had, I thought I was a good fit, I knew the system. My main goal was to get out there, gain the respect of my teammates, show them I 
could do the job." 
It's diflicult to imagine the 6­foot-4, 266-pounder playing bet­ter than he did until Jan. 14, when the Vikings were blanked 41-0 by the New York Giants in the NFC championship game. He completed only 13 of 28 passes for 78 yards that day. 
"That's the first time in my career that's happened to me, I had never been on any team that was shut out at any level," Culpepper said. "That was the first time, I hope that's the last time." 
Despite the crushing nature of the loss. Culpepper said he was over it 24 hours later. 
"Llfe goes on," he said. "They just outplayed us that day. No excuses. We'll be back. You've got to let it go." 
Minnesota receiver Randy Moss, who is sitting out the Pro Bowl because of bruised ribs, said after the loss to the Giants that he would win a Super Bowl ring someday, but doubted it would be with the Vikings. 
"If he feels that way, that's the way he feels," Culpepper said. "Randy and I are close friends. I don't think he meant it, I think he was blowing off steam. I think he'll be with us for a while." 
And so will Cris Carter, the Vikings' other standout receiver, who announced last week he'II play at least one more season. 
Carter, the second-leading receiver in NFL history with 1,020 receptions, said Culpepper did everything he could do as a first-year starter. 
"Tremendous player, tremen­dous attitude," said Carter, who 
will play in his eighth straight Pro Bowl. "He's handled every­thing thrown at him. With the right supporting cast and stay­ing healthy, he can be as good as anyone playing the game righinow." 

CHECK OUT SOME OF THE SUMMER  
CEMflR FOR SOCIAL  INTERNSHIPS AVAILABLE AT THE CSC  
CONCERNS  

Hispanic Leadership Internship African American Leadership Internship Chicago Latino Communities Internship (NEW) 
Includes: Tuition stipend Room and Board Theology credit 
Information session Thursday, February 1 8PM at the CSC 


page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 1, 2001 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Murphy earns conference player-of-week honors 

Special to The Observer 
For the second consecutive year, the Notre Daine men's soc­cer team has been recognized by the National Soccer Coaches Association of America with the NSCAA College Team Academic Award for exceptional perfor­mance as a team in the classroom during the 1999-2000 school year. 
Notre Dame was one of 13 Division I schools honored with the award for achieving a cumu­lative grade point average of 3.00 and higher. The Irish earned a 
3.22 grade point average during the past academic year, the sec­ond highest among the other schools recognized with the honor. Twelve players from the team were named to the Dean's List following the 2000 spring semester. while 10 earned Dean"s List distinction after the '99 fall semester. 
Along with Notre Dame, the other schools to earn the award were: Bowling Green State University (3.12). Bucknell University (3.13), Coastal Carolina University (3.23). Davidson College (3.14). Duquesne University (3.14), Georgetown University (3 .09}, Southwest Missouri State University (3.02), University of Akron (3.13), University of Dayton (3.09}, University of Pennsylvania (3.28), University of South Carolina (3.07) and Western Kentucky University (3.04). 
his 40th career double-double in 
Special to The Observer 

Notre Dame's 74-60 win over Syracuse as he scored 34 points Junior forward Troy Murphy and grabbed 16 rebounds. The has been named the Big East Irish All-American shot nine-for­player of the week for the third 17 from the field and converted time this season. 16 of his 19 free-throw attempts, 
Murphy, who averaged 25 both career-highs. points and 10 rebounds in lead­Against Georgetown in the 78­ing the Irish to consecutive wins 71 road victory, Murphy scored over top 10 opponents Syracuse 16 points and grabbed four and Georgetown last week. rebounds before fouling out of shares the honor with Troy Bell the game with 4:28 remaining in of Boston College. the contest. 
Murphy earns the playcr-of­Murphy is averaging 23.1 the-week honor for the ninth points and 9.4 rebounds for the time in his career. He registered 23rd-ranked Irish. 


CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

THE SUMMER SERVICE PROJECT INTERNSHIP 
• 
Devote 8 weeks to the service of those in need 

• 
Choose from 180 sites across the United States 

• 
Earn 3 theology credits (with possible crosslists) 

• 
Receive a $1900 tuition scholarship with the option for an additional $1000 Americorps Scholarship 

• 
Establish valuable contacts with Notre Dame Alumni 



LAST INFORMATIONAL MEETING 
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 7th at 6:00 PM At the Center for Social Concerns 
DEADLINE FOR APPLICATIONS: FEBRUARY 9, 2001 


\ 

Thursday, February 1, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
Irish 
continued from page 24 
points in the final 20 minutes. She also added 14 rebounds and five blocks. 
Providence double-teamed Hiley in the first ha.If so at half­ti m c McGraw decided to spread the court and give her All-American more room down low. Notre Dame's perimeter players also made better pass­es to the post. resulting in easy baskets for Riley. Her second­half performance was typical for games against the Friars. As a sophomore, Riley scored 36 and 41 points in Notre Dame's two easy wins over Providence. 
"She told me she was grad­uating on schedule," Jabir said. "I was very pleased with that" 
Another senior. Nicle Ivey also turned in her normal night's work on the defensive end. The aforementioned steal 
LEIGHTON HULL BRINGS IT HOME 
LEIGHTON HULL, DENNY'S FRANCHISE OWNER 

Leighton Hull owns Denny's® Restaurants in California ond Hawaii, but there's no place like home. So he's opened not one but two Denny's Restaurants here in his hometown. It was around his kitchen table in South Bend that Leighton Hull learned values like giving back to the community. It's avalue he shares with the rest of the Denny's family. We're the largest corporate sponsor of Save The Children U.S. and the leading sponsor and creator of STAR -Serious 
Teens Acting Responsibly. Drop in to either of Leighton's hometown places, where you're sure to feel at home. 
DENNY'S. AMERICA'S KITCHEN TABLE. 

Denny's is committed to providing the best possible service to oll customers regardless of race, creed, color or notional origin. 
solid defense in 26 minutes} 
"It's been overwhelming. 

impressed the coaches. With There ·s been a lot of 
forward Kelley phone calls and a lot of 
Siemon likely out 
talking, just a lot more

again for 
Saturday's interest nationally from Boston College people.,. game, McGraw said Severe will practice with the Muffet McGraw starters during women's basketball head coach the next few practices. 
"She was player of the Initially, we were just so excit­game." McGraw said of ed about it. I would talk to Severe. "That's what we need anybody. Now, it's time to get her to do [play defense and back to business." 
lot of phone calls and a lot of talking, just a lot m o r e interest nationally from peo• pie. We've not been in that position before. 

Track 
continued from page 24 
"From a facilities stand­point, we have nothing to offer [the team]," Kachmarik said. "We'd have to put hun­dreds of dollars to even have a team." 
The team lacks practice facilities, sufficient coaching and a track to hold meets. 
The addition of a four lane track suitable for running would cost the College $350,000 alone. In addition to 
the cost of the "The program is Eldred and the track, the team dropped. We would rest of the Saint 
would need a Mary's adminis­
have to raise a lot of
total of three tration, this is a coaches -one money to consider step in the right 
each for long bringing it back. " direction to 
distance, improve Saint sprints and field Mary's athletics events. Lynn Kachmarlk and put them on Currently athletic director par with the 
head coach Larry Szczcho leads the team alone. 
Practice facilities were another consideration taken into account when making the decision to dissolve the team. The team has no facilities to practice, making use of facili­ties at the Loftus Center at Notre Dame or Saint Joseph's high school. This year, the team's practice time at Loftus was cut from two hours a day to one hour. Kachmarik never approached Notre Dame administration about increas­ing practice time. 
"We had to look at the liabil­ity of the athletes travelling hack and forth," Kachmarik said. 
Recent participation in track and field was also a consider­ation. Last year, after a large early season turnout, most players abandoned the team, leaving a core of only three or four regular competitors. 
"Three or four women could be as important to this depart­ment as 30 or 40," Kachmarik said. "But we had to make the cut somewhere." 
...::·11e administration guaran­
-n 

teed Kachmarik that the $13,000 saved by cutting track would be used to improve the overall athletic department. 
"Much of [the money saved] will be used to improve salary," Eldred said. 
Saint Mary's currently only employs two full-time coach­es, basketball coach Suzanne Smith and swim coach Gretchen Hildebrandt. Both coaches also work as athletic administrators. Kachmarik hopes to increase the number of full time coaches. 
F o r 
Kachmarik, 

rest  of  the  
teams  in  the  
·MIAA.  

The members of the team feel differently. 
·•we understand [Kachmarik's] points," Bergeman said. "But we don't think the team had to be elim­inated. She had to make a tough decision, though. We respect that." 
"We want to raise the money to keep the team next year," Burket said. "We're going to contact alumni and parents and hold fund raisers for the team." 
Despite high team efforts, it seems unlikely that the pro­gram will return in the spring of 2002. 
"The program is dropped," Kachmarik said. "We would have to raise a lot of money to consider bringing it back." 
Both Kachmarik and Eldred are optimistic that the team will return at some point in the future of Saint Mary's ath­letics but not 2002. 
"I don't want to say that track and field is gone forev­er," Eldred said. "It is defi­nitely a sport we would like to bring back." 
(the 309th of her career) gave Ivey a new Notre Dame record and the Irish never trailed for the rest oft.he game. She fin­ished with four steals, six rebounds and four assists but shot just 4-for-12 from the field for 12 points. 
Ericka Haney added 17 points and nine rebounds, while seldom-used freshmen Le'Tania Severe's all-around play (7 rebounds, 2 assists and rebound]." 
1 
The unexpected contribution from Severe was a microcosm of the lrish's night. Against the conference's worst team, they struggled for their 33rd straight win at home. And as the winning streak continues, the attention and criticism will increase, not an ideal situ­ation for McGraw. 
"It's been overwhelming," McGraw said. "There's been a 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 1, 2001 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Dasso, Varnum hit road; Irish look to make racket· at home 
By STEVE KEPPEL 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team has its plate full this weekend as Michelle Dasso and Becky Varnum travel to Dallas to compete in the National Rolex Indoor Championships and the rest of the women stay home to take on Illinois State and Western Michigan. 
The Irish are looking to per• form well after a difficult tour• nament in Florida last week, where Dasso and Varnum lost in the early rounds. 
The team wants to put the losses behind them hut it still has to come out and play well this weekend 
"I don'f think that we really played badly," said head coach Jay Louderback. "They were all really good teams and we played against some good play­ers and did well. I told the team to not even worry about last weekend because it was such a tough tournament." 
Dasso and Varnum hope to get back to their winning ways this weekend as they both head down to Dallas. Dasso is partic­ipating in both singles and dou• bles and is ranked third in the singles bracket. Varnum will be joining her for the doubles and they hope to make up for a sec­ond round loss in Florida. 
Since it is a national tourna­

ment the pair will be taking on 
some tough competition but they both have high hopes for victory. 
"Both can do really well I think," said Louderback. "Michelle and Becky didn't play very well outdoors [last week] and playing indoors this week will help out a lot." 
While All-American Dasso and Varnum are in Dallas, the rest of the teamwill remain in South Bend to go up against Illinois State and Western Michigan in dual matches. 
With the top players out, the Irish will get a chance to show off some of their younger and less experienced players and have some players compete up a higher level than they nor­mally do. 
It is still to be decided who will play in the one and two positions vacated by Dasso and Varnum but Louderback thinks that it will be good for the team to compete without their two top players. 
"This will give our girls a chance to play higher, whoever is one or two will really have to play well," said Louderback. "Things should be okay. It will be interesting but I am very confident in our play." 
One thing that Louderback has reason to be confident about is the recent play of Kimberly Guy. After an impres­sive performance against Duke she went out last week and blew away the competition in Florida by going undefeated and winning the Flight•B sin• gles. 

"She played very well the In the past she has played well end." whole weekend," said but not consistently, last week• The Irish will take on Illinois Louderback. "She's gotten end she played four great State on Sunday during the older and more mature and matches in a row and she will morning and Western Michigan has improved her game a lot. be a big key for us this week-in the afternoon. 
Getting tickets has never been this 
easy.* 
*without paying scalper fees. 
Point. Click. Get Tickets. 
It really is that easy. Free, too. 
OBSERVER 
online classifieds http://www.nd.edu/-observer 


Thursday, February I, 200 I The Observer . TODAY page 23 
TYLER

FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 





ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
..,..,....-,-+:=+::~ 24 Port on the Shatt-al-Arab 25 Explanation preceder 27Egypt's_Simbel ....+~::-I 28 ·stop procrastinating!· 31 Digger 
33 Dump 
34 Relative of reggae 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
66 Good source for Vitamin C 67 Yam user? 68 Telecommunica• lions acronym 69 Cutty_ 
DOWN 1 Cubbyhole 2 "We're 
way!" 3 Bambino watcher 4 Thoroughly searched 
5 Horse-racing Hall-of-Farner _Ridge 
6 1960's P.M. _ 
Douglas-Home 7 Uneven 8 De facto 9 Slow Cuban dance 
10 Mid-2nd-century date 11 Frightening time 12 Standard stuff 13 1940's spy org. 15 Wanderers 20 Relative of 
"honked" 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON 
TIIlS DAY: Oark Gable, Lisa Marie 
Presley, Princess Stephanie, Terry 
Jones, Jayj Jacobs, Sherilyn Fenn, 
Sherman Hemsley, Boris Yeltsin 

Happy Birthday: You will be 
disciplined, competitive and 
innovative this year as you strive 
to tum your intentions into reali­
ty. You will be creative in your 
pursuits and will not let the triv­
ial things bother you. You will 
view tne big picture and do 
whatever is necessary to make 
this the best year ever. Your num­
bers: 5, 19, 26, 31, 36, 44 

ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Your tendency to overindulge 
will result in weight gain or 
minor illness. You will have to be 
careful not to overreact emotion­
ally with your mate. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
Your secretive nature will cause 
problems for you if you won't 
share your thoughts with your 
mate. Be careful not to neglect 
yourself. Rest and good dietary 
habits will be a must. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): 
Romantic relationships will suffer 
ifyou try to face important issues 
that are driving you crazy. Your 
partner will take offense and 
you'll spend the day alone. 00 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
Don't be too eager to talk about your feelings today. You need to discover wliat others are thinking before rou put your own beliefs on the line. 0000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): 
Travel will open up new avenues that will enhance your knowl­edge and bring about important friendships. You should be think­ing a~ut signing up for a course or semmar. 0000 

Birthdat Baby: You are a bit stubborn but only when you feel that you are right. You will never back down and will always be able to find a solution to any problem that faces you. You are a thinker and a doer. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvke.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) !Cl 2001 Univorsal l'tefl Syndicate 
EUGENIA LAST 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
Extravagance and overindulgence 
will be tempting. Be careful not to 
place unreasonable demands on 
others. Don't follow the crowd. 
You need to make up your own 
mind. Avoid getting involved in 
joint ventures. 00000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): 
Difficulties will surface if you 
haven't paid enough attention to 
your partner. Financial limita­
tions may cause frustrations in 
tryingtoachievegoals.000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
Be careful not to divulge secret information. You will have to trust your own instincts. Expect friends to exaggerate and overre­act to situations. It's best to keep your thoughts to yourself. 00 
SAGrrmRIUS (Ncni.22-Dec 2l): You will have ample ener~ to get involved in competitive activities that interest you. Your creative talent and ability to work with youngsters will come in handy. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 
191: You can expect opposition from those you live with. Don't argue; pist make your own plans to do things with friends. Don't make changes to your living quarters unless everyone is in favor of your plans. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will get along much better with your friends than you will with your family. Try to get your household duties out of the way before you take off for the day. 00 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will have the discipline to get odd jobs completed. Don't let children be too demanding. You may have difficulties if you make unreasonable promises. 000 
ACROSS 

1 French registry listings 5 Rule opposed by Gandhi 8 "Gesundheit!" evoker 
14 Before long 
16 Dover neighbor 
17 Drop in 
111 Govt. investments 19 Big-shouldered game bird? 21 Inspiration for Yeats 22 Money in China 23 It's tied at the back 
26 Woebegone 
29 Inn serving 
30 Pocketful of dough 31 Challenge authority 
35 Greenish-yellow pear 37 Artful Dodger? 39 Select speedy news-gatherers? 42 Pianist Claudio 43 Shoelaces 44 Gray area: Abbr. 45 21-Across, for one 48 Period in the earth's history 48 Artful Dodger, e.g. 50 Subj. for skeptics 51 • ... maids all in
. 
53 Smidgens 58 Is not apt to 
write right? 62 Picturesque 64 Mistreatment 65 "_be the 
day!" 

BILL AMEND
Fox TROT 
how will yc,14 l>o&ri. it? 
. I 

CROSSWORD 

grp. 
40 How a stomach might react to strange food 41 Kind of particle 
47 Answer giver 49 Ballet step on tiptoe without bending the knee 52 "One Touch of Venus" composer 
56 Popular early 61 J train? serials writer 
62 Fuel additive 57 Well-groomed brand 
63 Comedienne59 ~/:ey to play Margaret 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 

Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
... 
... 


page 24 OBSERVER Thursday, February l, 2001 
r 
I 
! 
I 
' 
t 
I I 
PORTS 
..... 
THE 
Lone Star Pair 

Tennis players Michelle Dasso and Becky Varnum travel to Dallas. Texas for the National Rolex Indoor Championships. 
page 22 

WOMEN'S TRACK AND FIELD 
Saint Mary's eliminates track and field program 
By KATIE McVOY Assistant Sports Edicor 
At a meeting late Tuesday 

evening, Saint Mary's athletic 
director L y n n Kachmarik announced the Belles track and field team will be dis­
continued 
following 
the 2001 
season. "Some may feel that this is a step backward," Kachmarik said. "But it truly will give us the opportunity to improve our department as we contin­ue to move forward." 


Kachmarik called a special meeting of the varsity team Tuesday at Angela Athletic Facility to announce the deci· sion and then publicly released information Wednesday morning. 
The decision to eliminate the program was a presidential decision made by President Marilou Eldred upon Kachmarik's recommendation. The decision was a difficult one for the administration. 
"We wish that we had been informed ofthe decision before [Tuesday]. We were caught totally unaware." 
Kara Bergeman team captain 
"It was a hard decision," Eldred said. "You never want to have to discontinue a sport." 
Senior. team-captain Kara Bergeman spoke for the team early Wednesday. 
"There wasn't a dry eye on the team [during Tuesday's announcement]," she said. "We're going to do as much as we can to keep the program. I'm not letting this go away. I'm not letting this end." 
The decision to eliminate the funding came after a long process that began last spring. The decision was finalized Monday, the cut-off for notify• ing the Michigan Intercollegiate Athletic Association. 
Despite the long decision process, athletes were unaware of the possible elimi­nation of the program until Wednesday. 
"We wish that we had been informed of the decision before [Tuesday]." team mem­ber Erica Burket said. "We were caught totally unaware." 
Following Saint Mary's entrance into the MIAA. the athletic department agreed to move towards full-time coach­es and improve athletic facili­ties. In order to do this, the first thing the department needed was money. 
The track and field team was in desperate nclld of money for coaches and facili­ties. 
see TRACK/page 21 

WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
No. 1 Notre Dame gets brief scare from Providence 
. Irish shoot 9-for-28, com­mit a dozen turnovers in first half 
By TIM CASEY 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Niele Ivey extended her hand, deflected the ball from Providence's Brooke Freeburg, gained possession, dribbled over half-court and threw a one-hop bounce pass to Ericka Haney for an easy right-handed lay-up. 
The steal, with 2:58 remaining in the first half, broke current assistant coach Coquese Washington's career record. But more impor­tantly, it led to a 21-20 advantage, Notre Dame's first lead of the night. 
That's not a misprint. 

For over 17 minutes on Wednesday, Providence (7-11 overall, 1-7 in the Big East) combined an aggressive defense and patient offense to frazzle the nation's number one team. The Irish (20-0 overall, 9-0 in the Big East) ultimately rebounded for a 64-44 win but their dominating performance over Connecticut seemed a distant memory. 
"We scared them a little bit, didn't we?" Providence coach Jim Jabir said. "I think that there's not just talent on their side but a lot of swagger. If that announcer said 'your No. 1 team in the country' one more time, I think I was going to choke him." 
The swagger was replaced by shock for the 
first 20 minutes. 
In the half, the Irish shot 9-for-28 (32.1 per­cent), committed 12 turnovers, had 4 assists and played the final eight minutes without Ruth Riley. With 6:16 left, Notre Dame trailed 18-11, its largest deficit of the season. 
"1 wanted to go home right there," Jabir said. "Time couldn't go fast enough." 
Notre Dame went on a 17 -2 run to close the half but led by only six with 8:10 remaining before scoring 16 straight points. The Irish turned to Riley in the second stanza. The senior center scored 17 of her game-high 19 
Senior guard Niele Ivey drives on a Providence defender. She broke the Notre Dame career steals record on Wednesday night, with her 309th theft. She also tossed In 12 points in the Irish win. 
see IRISH/page 21 

Track and Field 
• Men's Swimming 
Meyo Invitational 
,._ National Rolex Singles vs. Cleveland State 
SPORTS 

Loftus Fieldhouse 
and Doubles Indoor Friday, 2 p.m. 

Friday-Saturday
ATA Championships
® •
Thursday-Sunday at. Ohio State 

at Pittsburgh
Friday, 7:35 p.m. 
GLANCE 4.
--~ Saturday, 7 p.m. 
,: 


