
-· 
I 'Spy' new movies 
Afamily's thanks 
Thursday
Check out what reviewers think offilms like 
Steve and Paula Nemeth thank the community 
"Spy Kids" and "Someone Like You," starring 
for its support after their daughter Jennifer 
Ashley Judd and Greg Kinnear. 
died earlier this semester. 
APRILS, 
Scene . pages 14-15 
Viewpoint . page 13 
2001 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV N0.117 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



A long way from home 

University employees tell how international sanctions kept their family apart 
Israel from Jordan to fly home Zeit until she obLained a 

By KATE NAGENGAST 
from the airport in Tel Aviv, she Palestinian passport and an exit 

Associate News Edito.r 
was held at the border. Israeli visa from the Israeli Ministry, authorities denied her passport Katerina was trapped. To obtain a Joseph Araman, a captain for and claimed her American citizen­Palestinian passport she would Notre Dame Security/Police, sat on ship was invalid. Because Katerina have to travel to Gaza, a war-tom the sofa in his home in South Bend had been a resident of the West · area geographically dislocated with his 4-year-old daughter, Bank after 1967, she had violated from the West Bank and sur­Sarah. He was sweating. Israeli law by not carrying rounded by Israeli checkpoints. 'Tm sorry it's hot in here," Palestinian identification at all Katerina pleaded her case at the Joseph said apologetically, gestur­times. American Embassy and although ing toward the thermostat. "I get The Consular· Information Sheet the office could not eliminate her very upset when I talk about this for Israel, West Bank and Gaza obligation to obtain the paperwork problem." that Katerina was given upon her demanded by the Israeli authori­
The problem Joseph referred to detainment stated, "The ties, the Embassy did connect her began when his wife, Katerina Government of Israel requires all with the Red Cross as a means to Araman, who also works as an on­Palestinian Americans with cur­transport the documents to Gaza call monitor for Notre Dame rent or past residency status in the on her behalf. Security/Police, traveled with West Bank or Gaza to obtain a Sarah to the West Bank Jan. 3 to transit pennit to enter Israel from 
Seeking support

attend her mother's funeral and the West Bank or Gaza, including 
While his wife of 16 years and

visit relatives she had not seen for departure via Ben Gurion air­
their youngest daughter were

since she immigrated to the United port [in Tel Aviv] ... [They} may 
detained in the Middle East,

States from the West Bank in not be allowed to enter or exit 
Joseph spent two anxious and

1977. Katerina expected to return Gaza or the West Bank." 
fearful weeks at home doing

to South Bend on Feb. 12; howev­Forbidden from leaving her er, when she tried to re-enter deceased mother's home in Bir see ARAMAN/page 4 
KATE NAGENGASTThe Observer 

At left, Joseph Araman points to a photograph of Jerusalem hung in his den to show the area outside the city where he grew up. Above, Katerina Araman and her daughter Sarah returned safely from Israel March 2 after a two-week delay because of their Palestinian origin and Israeli security proce­dures. 





Members discuss TCEs in Moscona's first meeting as VP 
Committee during the 2000-2001
By ERIN LaRUFFA 

senate. 
News Writer 

"TCEs are the number one way we have of communicating with the 
After student body vice president faculty and administration how we Brian Moscona was sworn in think they're doing." said Dudley, Wednesday night, the new Student who worked on the report with Senate began its work for the 2001-other committee members. includ­2002 school year. Part of that work iag returning PE senator Nikki involved learning McCord. about a senate See Also The committee report, according Diversity to Dudley, states that the box is not
senators for

Committee report helpful to evaluating teachers and
2001-2002

that will be pre­in fact is "detrimental." sented to the page6 "You're taking your race and Academic Council making it the issue. Why isn't your on April 18. The sexual orientation or political belief report recom-on there?"said Dudley. mends removing The committee has explored the the question about student ethnicity issue with the University's from Teacher Course Evaluations Institution Research department, (TCEs), according to former Dudley told the senate, adding, "IR Pangborn senator Kaitlyn Dudley, who chaired the Diversity see SENATE/page 6 
Thursday, April 5, 2001 

page2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 
A job by any other name is not the same 
This spring break my friends and I took a road trip to sunny Florida. I had two disposable cameras. and on the way down to Florida I took pictures. Not that big of a deal. right? Well, I didn't take just any old picture along the way. I took a picture of a bridge going across the Ohio River in Louisville. I took a picture of the sky­line in Nashville, and when we went to Now Orleans I 

.. 
.

made sure I had a picture 
1;; .,. ~

of the Louisiana 
't4,_1,

Superdome. My friends 
,:liL.. .> 

~:-J'<• .. a big dork. This may be so, ridiculed me and called me 
Matt

but I don't think it has 

Orenchuk

anything to do with me 
taking pictures on the road 
trip. You see, I am a civil 
Assistant Web 

engineer. That means that 
Administrator

I think things like buildings 
and bridges are cool. Since 
I was a kid these things 
have interested me. On my road trip I was showing a passion for what l want to do in life. And I think that is a pretty cool thing. I have 
found something that I enjoy, and even better it 
is something that I can have a career in. 
This reminds me of my friend Joe. Last year Joe was a computer science major. He worked really hard in his classes, but the stuff didn't interest Joe. Who knows why Joe was a com­puter science major? Maybe it interested him in high school. Or maybe his parents wanted him to follow that career path. It isn't impor­tant. The point is that by the end of the year Joe had snapped. He decided not to be a com­puter science major anymore. Joe decided to change his major to music. While music is a lot more interesting to Joe, obviously it isn't going · to pay as well as a computer science degree. But the point is that Joe finally decided to quit listening to everyone else and follow his pas­sion. The same holds true for myself. I enjoy civil-engineering. But if it wasn't what I really wanted to do in life, then there is no way that I would do it. It isn't worth it to be an engineer (or any other major) if you don't enjoy it. 
I feel like there are a lot of people here that are in a major because of the wrong reasons. Maybe their parents pushed them that way. Maybe the promised six-figure salary is very appealing. The point is that you are wasting life if you aren't doing something you want to do. I realize that is a very easy statement for me to make. Even though civil engineering doesn't pay the most of all the dilTerent kinds of engi­neering, it still pays pretty well. And so it is very easy for me to say for everyone to follow your dream because I am going to make a good paycheck out of college. I just think happiness isn't found in a corner office or a BMW. Instead it is found by doing day in and day out what you really enjoy. If you do that, then you truly will be set for a wonderful life. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene Christine Kraly bura Kelly Myra McGriff 
Graphics 

Amy Greene 
Jose Cuellar 
Sports 
Production 
Tim Casey JeffBalrruzak 


Viewpoint 
Lab Tech 

Patrick Odewski Peter Richardson 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) i, published Mond,y 1hrot1gh Friday cxcepr during exam and vaca1ion P"riods. The Observer i, a memb<r of the Assotiatcd Prc5s, All reproduction rights a.re reserved., 
THIS WEEK AT NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S 

Thursday  Friday  Saturday  Sunday  
. Lecture: "Liberal  . Seminar: "Freud's Dora  . Conference: "The  . Event: Notre Dame  
Education: Seeing and  Case," 12 p.m. Room 117,  Waning of Major War," All  Student Exhibition,  
Believing," 1:30 p.m.  O'Shaughnessy Hall  Day. Auditorium,  O'Shaughnessy Galleries.  
McKenna Hall, Auditorium  . Film: "Bamboozled,"  Hesburgh Center.  
. Concert: Moreau Chamber  . 7p.m. and 9:45 p.m.  . Event: "Do you sing, Mr.  
and Saint Mary's Wind  Annenberg Auditorium,  Twain?" 8 p.m. Welsh  
Ensemble. 7:30 p.m. Little  Snite Museum of Art  Parlor, Haggar College  
Theatre, Saint Mary's  Center, Saint Mary's  

Compiled from U-Wire reports 
OUTSIDE THE DOME 

Faculty strike likely at University of Hawaii 
HONOLULU and could go on as long as needed, 
Unless a deal can be hammered Musto said. out between the state and the Malahoff said that "nobody wants University of Hawaii Professional a strike," but that students and Assembly by midnight Wednesday administration understand the need night, a faculty strike will begin for one. Thursday. Musto said that he hopes a settle­
With negotiations between the ment with the state can be reached state and the University of Hawaii but doubts a deal will be made Professional Assembly at a stale­before April 5. mate, a strike seems inevitable to Malahoff said the state and the many students and faculty members, UHPA are still trying to find a solu­but Alexander Malahoff, president of tion. UHPA, remains optimistic. UH Administration has said that 
"We'll proceed [with negotiations] ceedings on Monday and Tuesday students are to report to classes right down to the last minute," were "cordial," but resolved nothing. tomorrow and wait at least 10 min­Malaho!T said. "We've examined what the situa­utes, even in the event of a strike, 
The union will meet with a federal tions are on both sides," he said, unless otherwise instructed by pro­mediator and the state for their third "[and] the sides are listening to each fessors. After that, said Dean Smith, consecutive meeting Wednesday at other." senior vice president and executive 
8:30 a.m. Malahoff said that the pro-The strike has no definite end date vice chancellor, students may leave. 

CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SACRAMENTO 



Faculty still deadlocked 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. 
Contract proposals -which will eventually set the salaries and working conditions of faculty in the California State University system -have been com­pleted by the California Faculty Association and the California State University. Negotiations are tentatively set to begin this month. According to CSU chief nego­tiator Sam Strafaci, their proposal will be similar to the current sala_ry contract. The CFA proposals, according to CFA president Susan Meisenhelder, will call for sweeping changes. The CFA and CSU are locked in a debate over many issues in the contract negotiations and CFA has publicly discussed a work stoppage if an agreement cannot be reached. One of the most controversial aspects of salaries is the Faculty Merit Increase, a percentage of salary increase based on faculty performance. It currently comprises 28 percent of the total annual raises for CSU faculty, under the current salary contract which expires July 1. 

UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN 

Student sentenced for ebay crime 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 

University of Michigan senior Stephen Warrington was sentenced this week to pay a minimum of $500 monthly and serve five years of probation for breaking and entering and using a computer to commit a crime. both felonies. Warrington, who had no previous convic­tions or arrests, was arrested after he was caught sell­ing a stolen satellite global positioning system on the popular Internet auction site, eBay. Washtenaw County Sheriff's detectives also found he had stolen comput­ers, digital video cameras and tools, which he also auc­tioned on eBay. He primarily targeted computers and items which were easy to ship. Washtenaw County Sheriffs Detective Ron Blackwell said one of the break­ins was in the ballpark of $100,000, causing a serious disruption in day-to-day life for several business own­ers. "Aside from material things, there were people who were personally alTected. In property crime. no one gets permanently hurt -but people's lives were seriously disrupted," Blackwell said. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeathert> forecast for noon.Thursday, April 5.
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

Lines separate high temperature zones lor the day
AccuWeathe,~ forecasl for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Friday Saturd y Sunda~ 
FRONTS:

Monday ...,...... -----........ 

c 2001 Accuweather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY ,,,.tuft; 
® © D D ITIJ CJ D D


Tuesd~y ,..
High Low Shower• Rain T·•torm,; Flunl•• s....w Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
&~,./•'\.," 

Allanta 67 56 Las Vegas 81 65 Portland 65 46 Bal~more 62 43 Memph,s 52 49 Sacramento 75 65 Boston 48 35 Milwaukee 56 41 St Louis 71 58

4,~-~9.GQ (f ~ u 

ChicaQO 64 55 New York 62 43 Tampa 80 62 

Snawars T·slorms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 

Houston 85 71 Philadelphia 53 43 Washington DC 64 47 
VI• Aaooiat11d Pr•s Graph~Net 
-• o, • • --, o. _. • ••-... _. L-,.L ........ 

·-.-• ........... ..,, . ........·-··-------···----.... ~ ...... ~ .........-.... -·. _..._. ....., ..,.....,,,_
.. --. ... . . --~ . ~#"""•--•-•--·-•··-·· 


page 3

Thursday, April 5, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Saint Mary's raises tuition by 6 percent 
By MIKE CONNOLLY News Writer 
Citing a desire to remain competitive with its peer institutions. the Board of Trustees will increase Saint Mary's tuition 6 percent for the 2001-02 school year. Next year's total cost will average $25,939. 
"[The increase] is driven somewhat by budget considerations but the primary consideration was looking at 40 comparable colleges and we were well down on that list,"said Keith Dennis, vice pres­ident for finance and administration. "The Board did not feel that was an appropriate posilion com­pared to our peer institutions considering our 
ranking." 
Saint Mary's is ranked as the best Midwest liber­al arts school according to US News & World Report. Dennis said Saint Mary's needed to increase tuition in order to maintain the high quali­ty of faculty, small class sizes and good student ser­vices that pushed Saint Mary's to the top ranking. 
"Ifyou are going to continue to deliver the quality of education we deliver now. we need to generate as much revenue as our peer institutions,"said Dennis. 
Although tuition is increasing, the amount of 
money budgeted for financial aide is also increas­
ing, according to Mary Nucciarone, director of 
financial aide. 
"For our returning students, we try to increase 
the grant in accordance with the tuition increase 
assuming they demonstrate the same need," said 
Nucciarone. 
The increase in tuition is unrelated to the Master 
Plan. according to Dennis. All the money for con­
struction of new buildings comes from outside 
sources. When the buildings are complete, howev­
er, Dennis said that tuition money will be used to 
staff and maintain those new buildings. 
Tuition increased 5.5 percent for the 2000-01 
school year 

Brann lectures on 'Greatness' of books 

By C. SPENCER BEGGS Nows Wrirer 
Eva Brann kicked off the Program of Liberal Studies (PLS) department's conference entitled "Liberal Learning and the Great Books" Wednesday evening with her lecture "About the Greatness of Great Books." 
The conference denotes the 50th anniversary of Notre Dame's PLS. 
Brann, speak­ing to an audi­ence composed of PLS facultv, alumni and stu­dents. kept attention for close to an hour as she lectured about why the Great Books deserve the intellectual study of serious students and educa­tors. 
The Great Books are defined as a set of classical texts that educators feel promote the most rounded edu­cation. 
Brann said of the motivation for studying the works, "It is good for us to be driven, from time to time, to rake up the roots of our activity." 
Specifically, Brann's lecture addressed four problems facing the study of the Great Books, which she feels, have "fallen on hard times." 
First, Brann questioned whether the Great Books were "a kind" ­whether the Great Books could be considered as a discrete set of works and whether that classification was natural. 
Brann said that the Great Books are, indeed, a natural kind. Brann spoke to the reasons why the Great Books elicit such repulsion in general study. 
I 

"There's nothing warm and fuzzy about Great Books," said Brann. 
Brann still thinks, however, that students should be encouraged to study the Great Books for their intrinsic educational value. 
The third issue Brann's lecture raised concerned what determines whether a book is a Great Book. 
Brann referred the audience to the 
famous Emily Dickinson quote on the 
issue, "How do you tell a Great 
Book? Your hair stand on end and 
your neck feels prickly." 
Beyond tingling sensations 
beneath one's collar, Brann believe 
that there are three basic compo­
nents a literary work must have to 
be a Creat Book. 
First, a Great Book must be inex­haustible. That is that each time the book is read the reader gains a new and deeper understanding of the text. 
Brann also believes that a great book should consist of solidarity. Brann thinks that as the book is reread its structure 

University itself weren't supposed to be a program of liberal learning," 
After Brann outlined her argu­ment. the program proceeded onto a question and answer session where she fielded queries from all areas of education including: censorship. cul­tural literacy at the primary and sec­ondary school levels and the relevan­cy of writing assignments to a liberal studies program like Notre Dame's PLS. 
PLS students study a canon of clas­sic literature beginning in their sophomore year. 
It is regularly cited as one of the University's top academic programs by college reviews. PLS senior Beth 
and argumentation 

"ft is good for us to be Marino describes 
"coagulate" to pro­the benefit of study­

vide definite drivenfrom time to time, 
ing Great Books as answers or pose to rake up the roots of being intrinsicallyintellectual ques­
our activity. " gratifying.
tions. Great Books 
"I think that in 
have serious gravity 
other parts of my 

over the topics they Eva Brann 
education ... LIJ 
cover. 

St. John's College professor learned to read in a 
Lastly, Brann thinks that Great Books' "substance must shape [their] expression." She said Great Books must be written in a way that best conveys that material to the reader. 
Finally, Brann addressed how the Great Books should be applied to lib­eral studies. 
Brann quipped that the PLS pro­gram was wonderful "if the 
specific way." 

In PLS you learn to read and look for what the author is getting at, the true meaning of the text,"said Marino. 
Further lectures on the same topic will be held Thursday, April 5 in McKenna Hall as the conference con­tinues. 
The conference concludes Friday morning. 
IEWII H.tll IE911EffI THE •1EIENIE ., THE ,e11ew1•• AEN .tT THE IIIIIH THI# Fl19.tY! Alumni Hall Joseph Blaney Courtney Watson Keough Hall Morrissey Sorin Hall Chris Reily Josh Pini Sean Coary Morgan Pembroke Kevin Murray Shane Mcllhenny Tim Brennan Chris Crane Lawrence Santiago Jim Starman Christopher Reifsteck Joe Schlesier Jerry Samaniego Dave Amrheim Jesse Fa Chris O'Boynick Jason Hagen Tom Hall Tonio Buonassisi Ryan Becker Joe Feehan Troy Murphy St. Ed'sMarcos Sosa Kevin Hool John Beltramo Nick Althoff Luke Slonkosky Jeremy Montemarano Chris Scott Off Campus Mike Miranda Thomas Zieg Anntuan Do Mike Donnelly Alex Santana Juan Betancourt Zack Linnert Trevor Smith Kyle Skiven Kevin Kennedy Alan Ward Justin RolstonChad Silker Paul Rose Andrew Serizan Mike BienDavid Cannon Brian Barrett Jim Madden Corbett Ryan Donald Wolfe Mike ScottMatt Lee O'Neill Stanford Hall Joseph Clamon Tim Neuner Joe Mattack James Cusick Greg Kelly Pete Kenny Pete Balogh Doug Gillespie Russ Orf Luke Klopp Mark Pfizenmayer Fisher Hall Chris Cole Chris Clement Nick Mastronardi Matt McGowan Collin Moran Ken Moser Jonathan Buechler Gino Signoracci Carroll Hall Will Bruckert Pete Nebel Chris Hekler Matthew Barr Tim Dolezal Tonio Buonassisi Casey Torguson Dave Riebschleger Andy Harms Mario Villasenor Kevin Hool Jamison Galloway Keenan Hall Brian Ogorman Nitin Chandra Chris Scott Brad Fritsche Chris German Sean McCarthy Brendan Kelly Alex Santana Don Woznica David Marques Dave Cieslak Rob Kelly Ryan Valadez Bob LeBlanc Alan Ward John Fanning Michael Naughton Ben Hofmeister Steve Walker Siegfried Terrance Fitzgibbons Dan Greene Geoff Forgione Steve Torchen Mike Walsh Tom Westfall Dillon Hall Scott Pijanowski BillyZizicLuke Slonkosky Paul McDonald Chris McConnell Sean Miller Judson Stauch Chris Ward Brian Sharp Kevin Redar Oma Acousta Matt Carroll Matt Baron Luke Snyder Alan Peetz Tom Conklin Bill Voller Sean Lyons Casey Dick Chris Mahoney Jeremy Joslyn Zahm HallChad Kohorst Tim Jarotkiewicz J.B. Klein Brian McKenna Jas Crinion Frank Fasano Joe Collins Blake Hahn Peter Richardson Holt Zeidler Kyle Eller Sean Herrigan Nate Hicks Blake Kirkman Chris Gerber Nick Anhui Paul Rodriguez Bernard Vallejos Tommy Curtin Brandon Kennedy Knott Hall Brandon Zabrocki Michael Cochran Matt Brady Johnny Smigelsky Jeff Shoup Tom Birris Ben Wojcickiwitz Ron Perrotta Jason Ertel Andrew Warner Chris Fredlake Colin Heffernan Dan Musick Steve Balensiefer Ryan Hernandez Jack Kingseed Laura Kempisty Patrick Virtue Steven Holte John LeBlanc Rob Quigley Ed Wasilewski Ian Hedding Jim Tully Brian O'Donnell Mario Braz Adam Turner Shaun Harris Mike PattisonJoey Lopez Tommy Ferrara Jeremy Ford Michael Sanchez Brendan Fitzpatrick Shawn Thorne Chris Apicerno Ryan Nicholson Jimmy Ungaro Paul Nolen Domingo Maynes John Bjorkman T.J. Matieson Kurt Sutton Colin PowersScott Klitsch Regis Rogers Morgan Maclean Dan Kelly Matt McDonald Billy Taylor Mike HannonJohn Dee J.P. Gisclair Tobe Reiff Omar Jenkins George Remus Ryan Allen Tom Corr Brian Coughlin Ray Areaux Joe Hoffman Luke Macauley Matt Fox Adam Martzke Matt Reitter Matt Bleecher Al Vitter Kurt Maclaurin Ned Popit Tom Henry Mike Macaluso Michael Greenfield Mike Pedhirney Mike Kassing Mike Mann IEWII -IIIIH • • •  

------__,--------~----------------------.......---------~----­
page 4 Thursday, April 5, 2001
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 

when they were denied entry to University cost him his homeland. Israelis for being cautions?" asked had similar features: dark hair, Israel despite possessing the During each of his four years at Roet in a South Bend Tribune skin and eyes.... My American
AraIDan 
required papers, Katerina Notre Dame he had to fly back to "Letter to the Editor"that was pub­passport made no difference what­
continued from page I obtained an 8-hour exit visa and Israel to renew hie; 12-month tran­lished March 11. soever." 
landed at the O'Hare International sit permit -an expensive endeav­Roet also wrote that Katerina "IThe Israeli government's cur­
everything in his power -and Airport in Chicago. on March 2. or for any college student. and Sarah were at no moment rent security measures] arc dra­
Lhcn some -to bring them home There Joseph and the Araman "Eventually my status to re-enter "detained," "held hostage," conian. as they are with anyone 
safely. sons. Nader, 14, and Tarek, 12, Israel Wa.5 denied so I could never "caught-up in the Israeli­'suspect,"' said Father David 
"If he did not do all this here." tearfully greeted their loved ones. go back and live there as a citizen. Palestinian conflict,'' or "collective­Burrell, director of Notre Dame's 
said Katerina, "I would never gel Katerina's two brothers, both nat­So I became an American citizen ly punished" -he called these Jerusalem program. 
ouL oflhere." uralize!,i American citizens living in and I am happy," said Joseph. "It's phrases inflammatory and incor­Nathaniel Marx -a 2000 Notre 
Joseph found himsulf in a mess Cleveland also returned to the good,,to be free, it's very good to be rect. Dame graduate who studied in of phone numbers for possible United Stat.es that day. free. The delay in Katerina obtaining Tantur during the spring of 1999 contacl<; and assistanl'i to those "Obviously there arc some diffi­When Katerina's freedom was in the documentation she needed and now works as a public rela­contacts in the Middle East. cult situations for the Israeli peo­jeopardy this winter, her husband largely was due to a misunder­tions and program development Washington, D.C. and even local ple," said Joseph "But you cannot went back to the man whose influ­standing and cannot be blanrnd on volunteer with the Union of government. tell me that this woman and thL,; ence originally freed him. Seeing any government, said Roct to tho Palestinian Medical Relief' 
''First J thought, like any other little child were a threat to their I-lesburgh's car parked in the South Bend Tribune. Committees -defined suspect as sensible American would do. I security. The only reason they Library Circle on Feb. 18, Joseph Others, however, who are not "all persons of Arab origin. espe­should contact my congressman were holding them there was for went up to the 13th floor to seek directly involved in the dilemma cially Palestinians." and senator," said Joseph. "You collective punishment of the popu­help from a man he described as that the Araman family faced said Often forced to answer "inten<;e have this image that someone will lation.... They want to maintain a "wonderful." it is not an unusual one for questioning"and "undergo humili­swoop down und help you, but this brutal pccupation and break the Joseph told Hesburgh of his Americans. especially those of ating searches,"Marx said, ''This was not the case at all." spirit ofthe Palestinian people." wife's problem -and though Arab origin or former residents of kind of behavior needs to be called 
!\!though he said the govern­Katerina told the South Bend the West Bank or Gaza. for what it is -racist discrimina­ment olliciai'> were "very nice and Tribune she had never seen her Despite the cancellation of this tion -not security.... IThese
Reaching out for help

compassionate," he needed more husband cry before he greeted her year's study abroad program in searches] arc tho result of a long­
In 1964, when Joseph was still a 

than their sympathy. at the airport in early March, he Jerusalem due to heightened vio­standing policy of discrimination." 
little boy living in Jerusalem,

"I needed to drum up some sup­admits tlmt he cried that afternoon lence in the West Bank and Gaza,
Father Theodore Hesburgh paid a 

port, so I got connected with a on the top floor ofthe library. a nwnbcr of Notre Drune students 
visit to his home for coffee. The David and Goliath 
wonderful group in Washington. "What Father Ted did specifical­have had the opportunity to travel
Ara.man family lived near a plot of Joseph disappeared into his
D.C. called Partners for Peace," ly I'm not aware of," said Joseph. and study in the Middle East since 
land in Tantur that Ilcsburgh was kitchen and returned with a yel­
said Joseph. "!\ctually two Notre "But I'm sure he did a lot of things the opening of the Ecumenical
interested in purchasing as a site lowed clipping from the South
Dame students [whose names he behind the scenes .... [He] is a gen­Institute in Tantur in 1971.
for Notre Dame's ecumenical and Bend Tribw1e that he keeps taped 
declined to give] connected me." erous and kind and loving person, Tim Bodony. a senior and a par­
study abroad center. to his refrigerator. It's a photo­
Partners for Peace tries to edu­and I'm sure he did whatever he ticipant in last year's Jerusalem
"l remember my mom said to graph of a young, presumably
cate the American public about the could to help." program. encountered problems
me, 'You better behave yourself, Palestinian boy throwing stones at
conflict in the Middle East through when he attempted to travel
we have a big important priest an Israeli tank headed toward 
current events. Thus, with the help between Jerusalem and Cyprus.
from America coming here to have Looking at both sides him.
of Jerri Bird, the organization's Before he was pennitted to board
coffee,"' said Joseph. "I said, 'Hi David Roet, deputy consul gener­''This tank is demanding securi­
executive director, Joseph broad­the plane, Bodony was subjected to 
Father. How are you?' and ran al of Israel to the Midwest, ty," said Joseph. "But what about
cast his story nationally through 28 intense interrogation and his suit­
outside to play on my bicycle. I responded to both the Ara.man this little boy? Doesn't he deserve a
different interviews for newspa­case was emptied so each item of
didn't know any better." family's situation and the South peaceful place to live, to grow and 
pers, television and radio -even clothing could be individually
However, this was not the last Bend Tribune's coverage of the learn. to travel?
the As.sociatcd Press and National scanned with a metal detector.
time Joseph would encounter event with claims that Israel's ''This happened to us because of 
Public Radio heard his story. Bodony said. 
Hesburgh. Through a scholarship security measures are valid and our heritage and our ethnicity," he 
"In my heart I knew the "They repeatedly asked me
fund to assist Christians in the that the Israeli government is said. "We have a term for that in
American people would under­where I had been in Israel and
Middle East, Joseph and his older making genuine efforts toward America and it is called racism.
stand my plight because it's a where r was going, and my
brother came to the United States peace. The Israelis do not see that. It cer­
human issue, naked from all the answers never changed," said
as freshmen and graduated from "Under the current circum­tainly doesn't serve the cause of
political views anyone has prior to Bodony. "I looked around [the
Notre Dame in 1979 and 1973 stances, with terrorist attacks peace at all. ... The issue is that
understanding me," said Joseph. interrogation room] and noticed
respectively. against Israeli citizens within Israel our past, our history and who we
After a brief scare on Feb. 28 that indeed everyone in the room
But Joseph's time at the itself ... how can one blame are haunts us forever." 

vVh.o Says There,s ~othing to do Spring Semester??? .F.EATZJ'RLZ\TG•.. 7 lbs ofGroove Co-.-n.edy Acts .R.:ight-.ECta.:n.d-Sid.e DJ To-n..y Ccik .N'".A.Z.Z 200~ ~-i-.-zTa.er -Ska7n.Tn..U.7Zists April ~h 4-Bpm on The Knott Knoll (betl..Ueen Knott and the Hesburgh LibraryJ Free_BBQ L-i-ve ..ll(C-..is-ic Be There.__  



ATION 
Thursday, April 5, 2001 COMPlLED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS· BRIEFS 
Afghan opposition calls for aid: 
During his first visit to the West, Afghan opposition leader Ahmed Shah Massood on Wednesday appealed to Europe for aid of all kinds to help end his country's rule by the hardline Taliban religious militia. Afghanistan needs "any kind of aid that could help our people to renew peace," Massood said at a news conference. 
Rare monkey born in Brazil: 
Environmentalists in Brazil are celebrating the birth of the 1,000th golden lion tamarin monkey in the wild, a milestone in the light to preserve the orange rain forest species. The tiny tamarin baby, weighing about 2.5 ounces and measuring 4 inches long, was born last month, but the World Wildlife Fund made the announcement Wednesday. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Ashcroft urges video game caution: 
Attorney General John Ashcroft said Wednesday violent video games can teach children to aim guns, and he urged manufac­turers and parents to be responsible in mak­ing such games available to youngsters. Returning to the theme of violent entertain­ment and children, Ashcroft told a group of newspaper editors that laws and government programs cannot stop the rash of school shootings across the country. 
Marijuana study receives approval: 
The first federally approved study to give ArDS patients marijuana to determine whether the drug can effectively control their pain is under way in northern California. In November, patients will be given 15 marijua­na cigarettes over a prescribed time and will be asked to keep a detailed log of their drug use. The study will involve 60 AIDS patients who have already used marijuana. 
Nursing home charged in death: 
State officials have fined a Clay County nursing home $10,000 for safety violations they say led to the death of an 84-year-old resident. Forest Collins died of a heart attack Dec. 23 in below-zero temperatures after a nurse's assistant ignored an alarm triggered when he wandered outside, state investigators reported. His body was found about an hour after the alarm, 68 feet from the door at Cloverleaf of Knightsville, which is owned by Bayside Indiana Healthcare Associates. 
Market Watch April 4 

Dow 
9,515.42 +29.71 
Composite . Same: 
Volume: 236 
NIA

'1% 
AMEX: 839.ll +6.87 NASDAQ: 1,638.80 -34.20 NYSE: 572.71 +0.63 S&P 500: 1,103.25 -3.21 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY 0/oCHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +0. 95 +0.13 13. 88 NASDAQ 100 INDX (QQQ) +0.81 ·+0.28 34.94 INTEL CORP (INTC) -3.00 -0.75 24.25 DELL COMPUTER (DELL) -2.12 -0.50 22.94 WORLDCOM INC (WCOM) -.32 -0.06 17.88 
ISRAEL 


Associated Press 
ATHENS 
In their first high-level talks since Ariel Sharon took office as Israel's prime minister, Palestinians and Israelis searched Wednesday for a way to halt the latest surge in Mideast violence. But back home, the two sides traded mortar fire in the Gaza Strip. 
Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres and two senior Palestinian leaders, Nabil Shaath and Saeb Erekat, said the sides would renew security talks, which have repeat­edly broken down during the more than six months . of fighting. 
"We are now trying to get out of an extremely dif­ficult period," Peres said after a meeting with Greek Foreign Minister George Papandreou. 
In Israel. security offi-. cials met late Wednesday for about two hours, said Mohammed Dahlan, a Palestinian security chief in Gaza. The exact location was undisclosed. A repre­sentative of the CIA took part, he said. Israeli secu­rity chiefs and military commanders were present. 
Dahlan said the meeting was "difficult," and no agreements were achieved. He said the Palestinians demanded that Israel remove its restrictions on the Palestinians, withdraw tanks and stop the practice of targeted killing of Palestinian activists. 

It was the first high-level security meeting in months. Israel believes that security coordination is essential to stop attacks by Palestinian extremists. 
Dahlan said his convoy later came under fire from Israeli soldiers as it entered Gaza, and one of his bodyguards was wounded. The Israeli mili­tary said Palestinians in three cars opened fire, and 
Israeli soldiers shot back. 
The military spokesman's 
office said Israel was 
unaware that Dahlan was 
involved. 
In Washington, U.S. State Department spokesman .Richard Boucher said the U.S. . helped arrange the securi­ty session. "We're quite happy to be involved in this way to help facilitate 
their meeting," he said. 
Wednesday's political 
contacts -the most active 
since Sharon came to 
power a month ago ­
focused on the immediate 
problem of halting the 
bloodshed, and not on the 
collapsed peace talks. 

U.S. welcomes Mideast peace talks 
We're quite happy to be involved in attend the meetings "to facilitate, to
A&sociated Pceu 

this way to help facilitate their monitor and to report back on any 
WASHINGTON meeting." developments" to Secretary of State 
The United States welcomed Wednesday's talks in Athens Colin Powell, Boucher said. Wednesday's talks between Israeli between Israeli Foreign Minister President Bush has said the and Palestinian officials in Greece Shimon Peres and two senior United States will not mediate as as a step toward quelling Mideast Palestinian leaders, Nabil Shaath actively as it did under former violence and said the two sides and Saeb Erekat, were the first President Clinton. Instead, the were prepared to move forward high-level gathering since Israeli nation will rely on the Israelis and with the United States acting as a Prime Minister Ariel Sharon took Palestinians to take the lead in facilitator rather than a participant. office a month ago. direct talks. 
"We've evolved to a point where Each side pledged to renew secu­Egyptian President Hosni by helping facilitate this meeting, rity talks that could halt bloodshed Mubarak, addressing a group of they're willing to get together," said in the region in meetings scheduled U.S. Jewish and Arab leaders in spokesman Richard Boucher. "It's for late Wednesday, Boucher said. Washington, pressed for greater an evolution of the discussions. A U.S. representative planned to U.S. involvement in the crisis. 

Thursday, April 5, 2001
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Senate 
continued from page I 
did not give us sufficient information." 
"They're looking for ways students are biased against professors." said McCord. The information is not used to evaluate specific professors. 
"raculty would object to being assumed to be biased against students,"said Dudley. "Why should they assume this about us?" 
The question also makes students focus on a profes­sor's race and ethnicity right before completing TCEs, McCord told the senate. 
"!l's the subconscious effect," Dudley said. Senators briefly discussed the report. 
"I don't sec the helpfulness in taking it off as much as l soc the helpfulness of using tho information," said Lewis II all senator Jennifer Flannery. 
In other Senate news: 
. The Senate passed a. res­olution on behalf of the stu­dent body congratulating the women's basketball team for winning the NCAA national championship. 
Student Senate members for 
2001-2002 
. 
Alumni Matthew Lafratt;J 

. 
Badin Sole Galmarini 


. Breen-Phillips Anne McCadey 
. 
Carroll Jesse F1ores 

. 
Cavanaugh Undsay Zika 

. 
Dillon James Ryan 

. 
Fartey Eiuabeth Lenn 


. Fisher Greg Celio 
. 
Howard Kim Milford 

. 
Keenan Blake Haan 

. 
Keough John Cannon 

. 
Knott Matt Pant)ns 

. 
Lewis Jennie Flannery 

. 
Lyons Meghan Ftnnerlr 

. 
McGlinn Claudette Byrd-R/nch 

. 
Morrissey Padraic McDermott 

. 
Off-Campus Steven Reddy 

. 
O'Neill Mike Shultz 


. 
Pangborn Mary Mullen 

. 
Pasciuerilla East Nikki McCord 

. 
Pasciuerilla West Meghan O'Donnell 

. 
Siegfried Brian McKenna 


. Sorin Pat Hallahan 
. 
St Edward's Stephen Garcia 

. 
Stanford Aldo Tesi 


. 
Walsh Jeanine Valles 

. 
Welsh Family Mary MulJ)hy 

. 
Zahm Mart Roland 


COME JOIN US AND UCOULD WINA 


HOW? Come to the S.U.8. Easter Egg Hunt and find the lucky egg along with other eggs hidden all around campus with prizes DATE? To be announced 

Thursday, April 5 
5:00 p.m.-6:00 p.m. Romance Language Department's Italian Coffee Hour, Decio 131 
6:00 p.m. Susanne Rudolph, "Is Civil Society the Answer?" Hesburgh Auditorium. 
6:30 p.m. "John Paul H's Teaching on Women and the Vocation to Religious Life, lecture by Sr. Sara Butler, M.S.B.T. , DeBartolo 126 
7:00 p.m. Artist's talk by photogra­pher Gregory Crewdson, Annenberg Auditorium 
7:30 p.m. Ms Susan Carozza speak­ing on "The Singular Vocation to Motherhood", DeBartolo 126 
8:00 p.m. "The Dual Vocation to the Workplace and Motherhood", Ms. Nicole Grant, DeBartolo 126 
8:30 p.m.-10:30 p.m. Open Rec Lacrosse, Court 1, RSRC 
8:30 p.m.-Midnight ND Exprec.s Billiards games open, Lafortune Student Center 
9:00 p.m. The Samples, Stepan Center* 
10:30 p.m. Movie, "Finding Forrester'; DeBartolo 101*and 'Wurse Betty'; DeBartolo155* 
Friday, April 6 
5:00 p.m. Alumni Hall, "The Calling" concert, South Quad ( event begins at 
4:00 p.m.) 
5:00 p.m. Africentric Spirituality Office Blessing and Harambee Cel­ebration, Coleman-Morse Center 
7:00 p.m.-10:00 p.m. Open Rec Badminton, Court 2, RSRC 
7:15 p.m. Stations of the Cross, Basilica of Sacred Heart 
8:00 p.m. Movie, ''Finding Forrester'; DeBartolo 101* & 'Wurse Betty'; DeBartolo 155* 
8:07 p.m. 807 Friday Night Mass, Chapel of Notre Dame Our fv1other, Coleman-Morse Center 
8:30 p.m.-Midnight ND Express Billiards games open, LaFortune Student Center 
9:00 p.m. Comedy Doubleheader: Comedy Spartz, Lafortune Student Center Ballroom 
9:00 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, ''Bamboozled~; Snite Museum*• 
10:30 p.m. Movie, ''Finding Forrester'; DeBartolo 101* & 'Wurse Betty'; DeBartolo 155* 
11:00 p.m. Comedy Doubleheader: Steve Byrne, Lafortune Student Center Ballroom 

Saturday, April 7 
5:00 p.m.-8:00 p.m. Knott on the Knoll, Live band music, Knott Hall 
5:00 p.m. Graduate Recital II-Eun Byun, piano, Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
6:00 p.m.-Midnight Open basketball, Stepan Center 
7:30 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, ''Bamboozled'; Snite Museum* 
8:00 p.m. Movie, ''Rnding Forrester'; DeBartolo 101* and "Nurse Betty'; DeBartolo 155* 
8:30 p.m.-Midnight ND Express Billiards games open, Lafortune Student Center 
9:30 p.m.-1:30 a.m. Flashback to Prom Dance Party, Alumni Senior Club* 
9:30 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, ''Bamboozled'; Snite Museum* 
10:30 p.m. Movie, ''Rnding Forrester'; DeBartolo 101* and Betty'; De8artolo155* 
This ad is compiled and published by the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune Student Center. 
Thursday, April 5, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Organizers look for higher turnout at sexuality focus groups 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE News Writer  focus groups Tuesday discussed a variety of issues, including addressing sexual assault at  administrators did want to lis­ten to what the students had to say, but she was skeptical of  at the heels of three months of heated campus debate over an administrative decision not'to  groups and bring them to a committee who will formulate programming ideas based on  
first-year orientation, violence Turnout has been low for a against women, women's series of focus groups designed health. the manner in which to discuss issues of sexuality on National Coming Out Day was campus, according to Linda handled on campus and "The Timm, vice president for stu­Vagina Monologues." dent affairs. Senior Julia Malczynski, who Approximately 375 students attend-ed Tuesday's focus received invitations by mail to group, said that the presence of participate in one of 25 focus an administrator at the focus groups. Divided into groups of groups may make some stu­15 people dents uneasy each, the to discuss scheduled scs­"This may have been their view­sions began points on sex­prompted by 'The Vagina Monday and uaIity issuesMonologues.' but this is will run -and could through May something many students deter some 3. say should have students from Only four of attending.happened long ago." 90 students "I think it's scheduled to great [Timm] attend have Julia Malczynski was there," shown up for Malczynskiseniorthe focus said. "She groups as of didn't really Wednesday. talk at all, and "We're hoping that is an just wrote down and tapeanomaly," Timm said."...! have recorded what we said. I have received some emails back from no problem saying what I think, students that said thank you for but if you were a first-year stu~ [thcJ invitation, and that they dent, you may be afraic! to say plan to attend." something." Students who did attend the Malczynski said she felt the  what they would do with the opinions gathered. "It seemed like they are open," Malczynski said. "But [the administration] can say one thing and do another." Timm, who observed but did not participate in the discus­sion, and external facilitator Holly Farmer were pleased with .the dialogue Tuesday. "The dialogue was very open and seemed very honest," Farmer said. "The students had very positive things to say about how campus was handling these issues." The focus groups, part of an effort by college administrators to scientifically gauge the scope of opinion on issues of sexuality on campus, were created from a random list of students gener­ated by institutional research. "Many on campus have tried to identify the issues that may be of importance to students, but to date, no one has really asked a broad cross section of students what they think is important about these topics," Timm wrote in an all-campus e­mail March 26. The groups' formation comes  permit "The Vagina Monologues," a play that dis­cusses women's sexuality, to be performed on campus. While students will have the opportu­nity to discuss their feelings about the "Monologues"' place on campus, Timm is careful to point out that the forums are not specificaily for "Monologues" discussion. "This is not a rehash of 'The Vagina Monologues,"' Timm said. "For me, the issues talked about called attention for the need to do more inclusive pro­gramming." While some students say the decision to form the focus groups was catalyzed by the "Monologues" debate on cam­pus. it is one that needs to hap­pen regardless of the context, Malczynski said. "This may have been prompt­ed by 'The Vagina Monologues,' but this is something many stu­dents say should have hap­pened long ago," Malczynski said. "It is something that is long overdue." At the conclusion of the focus groups, Timm will compile the ideas discussed in the focus  the themes emerging from the focus group discussions. That is not assurance. however, that should the majority of students in the groups express positive sentiments in regard to the "Monologues" that the adminis­tration would reverse its stance. "If it's one of the things stu­dents feel is necessary, we'll discuss [The Monologues,]" Timm said. "But I don't want to make any predictions about anything." Students who have not received an invitation to partic­ipate in the focus groups may sign up for five voluntary groups in Haggar College Center. If students are unable to attend the scheduled times, Timm encourages students to contact her directly. "We've only heard from one small group of students [about issues of sexuality],'' Timm said. "There are a lot of students out there who have said they're not comfortable speaking up about how they feel. This is an oppor­tunity to reconnect with stu­dents and give those who haven't had a chance to speak a voice."  


PP--._.OVOIT'S DISTINGUISHED WOMEN LECTU P--._.E SEP--._.I ES 
7p-u.·s· L-i G~ -i.:/E° c--r·u-IZE =-. 
.._ _____ .,.__,. .. __ ,.__ -. 

TH E J O'y'5 o F ~Al D E )'..J H O O D : 
vv'OJ---,{EN AND 50NG fN LATE )'-..._...,i,EDIE'vAL ENGLAND 
7:3 0 P )'-..._...,i, vvEDNE5DAY, APR...t L 4-, 2001 >-------t o N Tc:; o /V'\ E R....Y TH EAT R...E L.A... F o R-T UN E STUD ENT CENTER... 
~-E-N--IYE' R.:: ·5"-(u·o:i·E·S-·-F·o-KO , _______ 'M;7 7 
__ ,.._,____________ ·---­

B E 1 )'--...J G AL~ OST TH E RE --­
THAT 15, SElr--JG A V\/0)'-.._.,,{AN .,~ND LESBIAN IN ACADE)'-..._...,i,E 
12:30 p)'-..._...,i, THU R...S'DAY, AP R...I L 5, 2001 I 1 9 O'S HAU G H N ES SY ''-:!'''" ,.. 
·'•'"""·"''' ·· 

'<,,,,;•c,,;,~-· .r~;t~L\,r\:.;;L 
. ~: J;:-_-.•
·' -/ .<:-·:~ii~~ ,._:~·:-. . JUD 1TH ~~; tB·E_~ N·E''TT·. 

FRANC l 5 S'T'-JAR.17PCf-:J,AP:1~, JR_ ':C-E:: R)'-...-{ PROFESSOR 
. ~ ·,.,, -~~ ·•>"•:',.; '~·h\ ·:~~-·./ '. · ·1 ' 
'-JNl'vERS'lTY .OF NQ'~TH/CAROJ,-J.NA 
. ''·1:~~:;~~\ir,,;:,:~!;, 

ST'-JD ENTS AND FAC'--7.LT~-n-~-~'lTED TO ATTEND 
. . -,~-·-i/,:. . 1~ :~:~ ;i;!l., _, 


page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, March 5, 2001 

WEEKEND HAPPENIN6~ 
• musicmne 
The ~amplei 
thunday, april 5 q-11 pm 
~tepan center ~10 at lafortune box office HOW ~11 at the door (tix only available to NO, ~MC, and HCC students) 
Acomticafe 
thunday, april 5 qpm lafortune huddle 
• campus entertainment 
Comedy Doubleheader 
co-sponsored by flip~ide friday, april b Comedy ~portz at qpm Jafortune ballroom ~teve Byrne at 11 pm free 
• weekly movies 
finding forrener &Nune Betty 
101 and 155 debartolo thursday at 10-30 pm friday and iaturday at 8&10.30 pm 
www.nd.edu/ ~rnb 

Thursday, April 5, 200 l The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Sunken Arctic Rose leaves trail of mourning families 
Associated Press 
ANCHORAGE, Alaska 

The skipper of a sunken fish­ing vessel in the Bering Sea had planned to switch jobs after the voyage to spend more time with his family, his father said. 
"This was going to be his last trip," Uavid Rundall Sr. of Seattle told The Herald of Everett, Wash. "It's devastating." 
Tho body of his son, David M. Rundall, 34, of Ililo, Hawaii, the vessel's skipper, was recovered 

"He was very. very opinionated· and immensely hardheaded," John Kivlin told the Seattle Times. "But he had a lot of heart, and he lived his life with bravery and righteousness." 
. Deckhand Jeff Meineke, 20, was working aboard the Arctic Rose to earn money for college. He had attended Chaminade University in Hawaii for a year but was unsure what to do next. A visit to Alaska with friends convinced him to go to sea. 
"He thought it was the greatest thing in the world," said his father, David Meineke of Lacey, Wash. "He loved being out there." 
. Shawn Bouchard, 25, of Harlowton, Mont., and high school friend James Mills, 24, of Judith Gap, Mont.. took the fish­ing boat job to pay debts and clear their way to begin a reli­
. gious mission, said Bouchard's father, John Bouchard. 
"They picked a dangerous job on purpose." he said. "The mis­sion field can be very dangerous, and they figured if they could get through this ... " 
. First Mate Kerry Egan, of Britt, Minn., had hoped to become a captain. The 45-year­old father of two, ages 18 and 20, regaled relatives with sea stories but knew the dangers of commercial fishing. 
"He always said he would die at sea," sister-in-law Trish Egan said. "He knew that was his life, and he knew that was a very, very high-risk job." 
by the Coast Guard on Monday after the 92-foot ship went down about 775 miles southwest of Anchorage with 15 crew mem­bers aboard. 
The younger Rundall was mar­ried and had three sons, ages 4, 12 and 14. He had been a skip­per for six years and had lined up work on a tanker, a job that would have allowrd more time at home, his father said. The skipper's grandfather died in 1962 after falling from an Alaska 


ferry. 
Hope of find­ing other crew members faded as Coast Guard officials tried to deter­mine why the Arctic Rose sank so fast the crew had no time to radio for help. It was one of the worst commer­cial fishing dis­
asters  in  
Alaska in  20  
years.  

"He was very, very . Olney, 46, opinionated and loved taking 
his sons, ages
immensely hard-headed. 
16 and 9. to But he had a lot ofheart, swim or play 
and hel ived his life with basketball. 
"Mike loved
bravery and 
the kids first 
righteousness." and last." his wife Adrianne Sue Olney said 
John Kivlin 
from their
victim's relative 
ble was a signal from the vessel's automatic emergency locator beacon at 3:30 a.m. Monday. 
The vessel was operated by Arctic Sole Seafoods Inc. of Lynnwood, Wash. One of the missing crew members was Mike Olney. the ship's engineer and brother of company owner David Olney. 
Nine of the crew members were from Washington, two were from Montana and four others were from Minnesota, Texas, Hawaii and California. 
Among the 
missing crew: 
Officials continued the search without success Wednesday. One other body was found Monday, but could not be retrieved because of harsh weather. 
"We've been spotting debris the whole time, but nothing promising," sai.d Coast Guard spokesman Petty Officer Jim Barker. 
The first and only sign of trou-
The Guitar Players Association Presents 

Michael Kelsey Progressive Aggressive Acoustic Guitarist 
See this guy perform. Oh! What he does with that guitar. He wrung the neck of that thing and squeezed out every drop. He banged it, thumped it, tickled it, and squeezed it. His fret hand played over and under the neck. All seven of his hands hovered over and around his 
harmonics. crawled int He sculpted in the air around the instrument. o and out of the music he created.  Kelsey writhed and contorted and --Jeff Stone, The Bloomington Voice  
Reckers  

Thursday, April 5 
9:00 PM 
home in 
Kendall, 
Wash. 
.The boat's cook, Kenneth Kivlin, 55, had been a single father since his son was 2 years old, and earned a Purple Heart as a Navy corps­man in Vietnam when he was sprayed with shrapnel rescuing a wounded soldier. The Port Orchard, Wash., native once lost a job by arguing with a captain who wouldn't buy enough food, his son said. 
I, 
Thursday, March 5, 2001
page 10 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Friday, April 6, 8:00 p.m. 
Coleman-Morse Lounge 
807 -A New Mass on Friday Nights 
Friday, April 7. 5:00 p.m. 
1st Floor, Coleman-Morse Center 
Africeotric Spirituality Office Blessing and Harambee Celebration AU are welcome! 
Friday-Sunday, April 6•7 
Sacred Heart Parish Center 
Senior Retreat #6 
Sunday, April 8 
Stanford/Keenan Chapel 
RCIA Morning ofReflection 
11:45 a.m. Mass 
Sunday, April 81 1 :30 p.m. 
Zahm Hall Chapel 
Spanish Mass Presider: Rev. J. Steele, csc 
Sunday, April 8 
Basilica ofthe Sacred Heart 
Palm Sunday 
Monday-Tuesday, April 9-10, 
11 :30 pm-1 0:00pm St. Paul s Chapel, Fisher Hall 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Tuesday, April 10, 7:00 p.m. Badin Hall Chapel 
Campus Bible Study 
Tuesday, April 10, 7:00 p.m. 
Campus Stations of the Cross & Sacrament of Reconciliation 
The Stations prog;ram wilt hegin at the Grotto and continue throughout the campus, conclud­ing with Station XIVat the Basilica, Adoration ofthe Cross and opportunityfor individual sacrament ofpenance. 
Wednesday, April 11, 6:30 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
RCIA Practice for Vigil 
Wednesday, April 11, 10:00 p.m. Morrissey Hall Chapel 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Palm Sunday of the Lord's Passion 
Weekend Presiders 
• Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Saturday, April 7 Mass 
5:00p.m. 
Rev. Peter D. Rocca, c.s.c. 
Swiday, April 8 Mass 
10:00 a.m. 
Rev. Edward A. Malloy, c.s.c. 
11:45 a.m. 
Rev. David J. Scheidler, c.s.c. 
Scripture Readings for this Coming Sunday 
1st Reading  Is 50: 4 ­ 7  
2nd Reading  Phil 2: 6 ­ 11  
Gospel  Uc 22: 14 -23: 56  


Hope blooms each Spring 
by Fr. Gary Chamberland, CSC 

On Tuesday morning, the daffodils on God Quad had pushed themselves up another few inches. Hopefully, they will bloom in a few days granting us some sign of spring. By this time last year, they were already wilted; yellow heads bent and turning to brown. Though hearcy, rhis year's daffodils already show the ravages of a late spring. Their leaves are yellow tipped and burned from the frost and snow which came after they first poked up their heads to greet the sun. Few, if any, will be perfect when they bloom. Most will bear the marks of the hard­ships of ~heir lives. 
Recently, I attended the wake and funeral of a four-year-old. Vincenc was a bright-eyed lirde boy with a ready grin chac lit up the pictures that surrounded his small casket. Full of energy and life, his young life was snuffed out suddenly when he fell and hit his head. At the wake, his father was noticeably grayer. Rock solid and a pillar of his parish, he leaned on 
others for the support to make it Burying Kaleigh, three weeks old, and through. Vincent's mother 
the long desired hope of her parents, was greeted each mourner with a hug and spoke of her lirrle boy
perhaps the most difficult and most 

as a shining scar and the light of 
powerful experience of my priesthood; 

her life. She asked me how she· baptizing her little brother a year later is was going to go on. How does perhaps my greatest joy. one breathe when one's breath is gone? A week after the funeral I received e-mail with a picture ofTrey on his first birthday. I wrote to Trey's mom to say I had been thinking about her a lot since Vincent's funeral and wondered how she was doing. She replied that Vincent's death was hard because it came just a week after the second anniversary of her own daughter's death. The second anniversary had been harder than the first. That was to be expected, I think, for last year was filled with the joy ofTrey's arrival and the opportunity to baptize him near that one-year anniversary. Bury­ing Kaleigh, three weeks old, and the long desired hope of her parents, was perhaps the most difficult and most powerful experience of my priesthood; baptizing her lirrle brother a year later is perhaps my greatest joy. At Vincenc's wake I cried with his family and thought also of Kaleigh. As Mike and Michelle grieved for their son, I prayed for them. And I prayed for Jeff and Anne who still grieve for their daughter. This year, we at Notre Dame have known death, as well. Several members of our student body have passed on after battling with leukemia and friends and hall communities still ache with their loss. Their parents and families still struggle with the reality of their deaths and seek to find meaning in their shortened lives. When people speak of Brianne or Conor, they speak of determination and grit, of hope unfulfilled, of potential and futures unrealized. The winter is long and it is hard to see signs of spring. The Sacred Heart statue on the God Quad is surrounded by tulips, which like the daffo­dils, are struggling to come to bloom. They too will show the signs of a long winter. Yet they will soon burst forth in flaming red, drawing attention to that image ofChrist, arms out­stretched to the world, beckoning to us. "Corne to me all you nations." "Corne to me," he cries. As we celebrate the passion and death of Christ in the week to come, the crimson at his feet will speak of his blood poured forth for our salvation. Each bloom will be a reminder that Christ suffered and that in his resurrection he brought his humanity back to the very heart of God. As he is in us, we are now in him. When we suffer and grieve, he knows our pain and longs to wipe away every tear from our eye. When we are in winter, he longs for us to find the sprmg. The tulips and daffodils will bloom very soon. Leaves will be yellow and petals tipped with brown. Some will l9ok and see flaws, noting only that they are damaged. I hope that I notice chose marks of life, as well. But this year I am sure that I will revel in them as signs of hope. For they will be imperfectly glorious -or perhaps better -they will bear the marks of perfected glory. Having weathered the cold and snow of extended winter, they will have blossomed once again. They will be forever marked by the signs of their suffering having transcended it and transformed it into a beauty that is uniquely their own. Babies die, friends battle leukemia, humans suffer, winter can seem interminable. But 
Christ did not simply suffer and die, he rose -smashing the chains ofdeath and giving life co all who believe. Life has its share of hardship and pain. In the spring of salvation, may we bloom in the warmrh ofhis light knowing char the scars we bear in our souls make us beauti­
ful in his sight. 
C-M 
Campus Miniscry 
··-·--. 

Thursday, April 5, 200 l The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
U.S. offers China regrets, no apologies for collision 
the olive branch Wednesday. In China, a similar regrets­both sides held publicly to con­in unison, "Yes!" according to a
Associated Press 
"We regret the loss of life of but-no-apology formulation was tradictory positions: China called senior U.S. oflicial briefed on the 
that Chin-ese pilot but now we offered to the nation's foreign itself the "injured party" and exchange. 
WASHlNGTON 

The Bush administration offered Beijing a chorus of regrets but no apology for the collision between a U.S. spy plane and a Chinese jet fighter. 
China, still detaining 24 American crew members, said it was a step in the right direction amid signs that both sides want• . ed a face-saving resolution. 
President Bush. who issued a stern warning to Beijing a day earlier, had his advisers extend 


little-noticed crafted apol­
now we need to move

.comment, had ogy might be said Tuesday on." in order. that the crash "If it's just 
was "fatal for a simple
Colin Powell

the pilot of the apology Chinese plane Secretary of State that's going 
need to move_ on," Secretary of minister by the U.S. ambas-blamed the United States for the State Colin Powell said. "We . sador. crash while the White House need to bring this to a resolution "The United States doesn't called it an accident and and we're using every avenue understand the reason for an Pentagon officials said the availabl~ to us to talk to the apology," Fleischer said. "Our Chinese pilots buzzed the lum­Chinese side to exchange expla­airplanes are operating in bering spy plane. More cautious nations and move on." international airspace, and the than optimistic, Bush advisers 
White Ilouse press secretary United States did nothing said privately they had no idea Ari Fleischer echoed Powell's wrong." how China would receive the remarks, saying "we have An apology would imply administration's latest overture. expressed our concern and our wrongdoing by the United On Capitol Hill, the sister of regrets about that incident." but States, officials said, something 31-year-old detained Petty he declined China's demand for Bush has not Officer an apology. been willing to Kenneth 
concede. "We regret the loss oflife Richter said Powell, in a a carefully
ofthat Chinese pilot, but 
Day four of the standoff began with Chinese President Jiang Zemin demanding an apology for the collision between the Navy EP-3E Aries II electronic surveillance plane and a Chinese jet. 
He also said the United States should "do something favorable to the smooth development of China-U.S. relations," a state­ment taken by administration officials as a sign that Beijing would welcome any act of con­trition from the United States. 
Their hopes were fueled short­ly afterward when Foreign Minister Tang Jiaxuan echoed Jiang's call for an apology in a meeting with U.S. Ambassador Joseph Prueher but also said China hoped to see the incident "resolved as soon as possible" with China protecting its sover­eignty and dignity. 
Chinese Embassy press coun­selor Zhang Yuan Yuan ailed Powell's remarks "a step in the right direction." 
State Department spokesman Hichard Boucher said the administr~tion was looking for channels to open talks with the Chinese about the incident. Chinese Ambassador Yang Jiechi met with Powell's deputy, Richard Armitage, for the sec­ond time in two days, and left without comment. 
As the two countries squared off over the fate of the crew, the husband of a U.S.-based political scientist arrested by China and charged with spying said she was a victim of souring U.S.­Chinese relations. 


r 
and I regret that." But the remarks Wednesday 
were the administration's most emphatic expressions of sympa­thy, designed to set the course for a middle ground that could lead to the crew's release and allow both sides to escape dan­gerous diplomatic territory, offi­cials said. 
Since the first day of the standoff, the president has steadily increased rhetorical pressure on the Chinese while leaving room for a diplomatic 
· settlement. Bush and his foreign policy team debated whether he needed to make a personal statement similar to Powell's, but there were no plans for one as of Wednesday afternoon. Desoite the sil!ns of oroi!ress. 

to get them 
back, then that should be fine," said Barbara DiStefano of Staten Island, N.Y., before tying a yel­low ribbon around an elm tree outside near the Senate cham­ber. "But if it's an apology with conditions, then the United States government has to decide what they're going to do." 
U.S. officials said the crew indicated they managed to destroy at least some of the highly sensitive electronic intelli­gence-gathering equipment and data on board the plane before it landed. When asked by an Army general in the presence of Chinese officials whether they had completed "the checklist" ­a veiled reference to destruction orocedures -the crew shouted 
6:30 PM SISTER SARA BUTLER, M.S.B.T. 
Professor of Systematic Theology, Mundelein Seminary
the catholic woman: 
IJJohn Paul II's Teaching on Women and the Vocation to Religious Life." 
"What is my Vocation"? 


Why does Pope John Paul II think of himself as a"feminist"? Sr. Butler will explain 
why by setting out six structural elements from the Pope's apostolic letter "On the 
Dignity and Vocation of Women." She will also point out some important themes 
from his more recent addresses. Women's ordination and women's 
vocations to the religious life will be examined in relation to these themes and 
to the questions raised in our day by Catholic feminists. 
7:30 PM SUSAN CAROZZA 
"The Singular Vocation to Motherhood." 
Ms. Carozza will describe how an understanding of vocation can evolve in each Christian's life, with particular reference to her own vocation as a stay-at-home mother. She will draw on the Church's teachings, the Bible, and her own experiences to explain why awoman of professional training and ambitions might choose to interrupt her career to raise a family. 
8:00 PM NICOLE STELLE GARNETT 
Notre Dame Law School 
"The Dual Vocation to the Workplace and Motherhood." 
In public opinion polls, an increasing number of American women claim that 
they value time with their families more than career advancement; and that 
they are willing to make professional sacrifices in order to "balance" family and work. Is "balance" the answer? Is it even achievable?
Thursday, April 5 This working mother shares her views about how the concept of vocation can help guide awoman's decisions concerning career and family.DeBartolo 126 
8:30 PM Reception with Refreshments
Offered in cooperation with: St. Thomas More Society and the Schubmehl-Prein Endowment. 
r 
-
VIEWPOINT 

-
page 12 
THE OBSERVER 

PO. Box Q. Norn: Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Nom: Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS M-1.NAGEll  
Noreen Gallespie  Bob Woods  
AssT. MANAGING ErmuR  
KmySmith  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Pat McElwec SroRTS EDITOR: Noah Amsrndtcr Sc!'NF. EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAJNT MARY'S EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvd Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLI.ER: Kevin Ryan GRA!'HICS EDITOR: Katie McKcnna 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENEJW. INF0..............631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 AoVF.RTISING ... ..................................63 J-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631•4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME. ...................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS.................................................. ........ 631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SroRTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sporcs. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4 540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@od.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:l!ohsrrvrr.nd.~du for daily updates of campus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as carroons. reviews and breaking news from the Associaced Pr=. 
SURFro: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 

a.dvcrtisc for policies 
onlinc features for 

and rates of prim ads special cam pus cover­
age archives ro search for articles published 
about The Observer alier August I999 
to meec the editors 

POLICIES 
The Observer is chc independenr. daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Edicorial conrem, mduding advercisemencs, is noc governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advcr1iscmen1S based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objecrively as possible. Unsigned editorials represem the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Mao aging Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and depamncnt editors. Commentaries. leners and columns present the views of che authors and nm necessarily those ofThc Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions chrough letters is encouraged. ~ncr.'i to the E<liror must be signed and must include concacr informa1ion. 
Que;riom "Y,t1rdiny Ob1mJf:r polidrs slmuM be dirtet­ed t~ Editor m Chirf Milu Connolly 
DILBERT 
I'VE O[C10EO TO ABANDON LOGIC AND MANAGE B'i' 
CLICHES. 
) 

f'lHE VBSERVER Thursday, April 5, 2001 
Having the readiness to sacrifice 
Last week I submitted an application for my daughter, Flannery, to attend the Early Childhood Development Center (ECDC) at Notre Dame next fall. For me, this action had an additional level of meaning because I served on the original University committee that helped convince the administration that on-site child care was both desirable and doable. 
Flannery's birth was more than four years away at the time of my service on the committee. While I thought that at some point I would like to have children, l was moti­vated out of a sense ,. that such child care was a good idea ­something for the common good ­rather than out of self-interest. 
Catholic social teaching both guided the reasoning for child care and shaped how that care should be offered. The principle of subsidiarity stresses that those who are closest to a situation or person have the primary responsibility for it or her, but that larger and more remote associations and institutions still have the role of supporting -the Latin root for subsidiarity means "to support" -those with the primary respQnsibility. Parents have the primary responsibility of raising and educating their children, but schools -whether ECDC or public or private schools at other levels -can support this process. 
The concepts of the common good and the option for the poor were key in shap­ing how the committee thought about the offering of such care and education. 
LETTER ·ro THE EDITOR 

Following the common good. we designed the program so that it would be open not just to the children of faculty and administration, but to those of staff, students and alumni as well. In the reg­istration lottery, students and staff rnceive the same priority as faculty and administration. 
To assure that this common good could in fact be served, the option for the poor guided the committee's recommendation that tuition be on a sliding scale basis. For the 2000-2001 school year at ECDC­Notre Dame, full-time tuition for those making over $70,000 a year is $141 a week; for those making under $20,000, it is $63 (including breakfast and a hot lunch). 
The need for such child care on cam­pus demonstrated itself right away. While, on average, new child care facili­ties take five years to be operating at full capacity, at ECDC-ND this occurred in the first year. There arc now more appli­cants than there are openings. This has necessitated a random selection process, the only fair option in such a situation if the driving force really is the common good. 
The upshot of the random selection process is that even though l have given over 10 years of service to Notre Dame and served on the committee that helped make Notre Dame-sponsored child care a reality, my daughter may lose out to the son or daughter of someone else, someone who plans to remain at Notre Dame only a short while and who played no role in the founding of the facility. The important point is that given the rel­ative scarcity of openings, ifwe are seri­ous about Catholic social teaching, this -the possibility that another child rather than Flannery will get in -is as it should be. 
While there is a great deal of discus­sion of the common good and the option for tho poor in Catholic social teaching, there is less -and certainly not enough -discussion of the possibility and even necessity of sacrifice on the part of those who are more well oIT if indeed the com­mon good and the less well. oIT arc to be served. 

There are exceptions. John Paul 11, in "SoHicitudo Rei Socialis." states that "sol­idarity demands a readiness to accept the sacrifices necessary for tho good of the whole world community." 
Paul VI goes even further and says that. "the more fortunate should renounce some of their rights so as to place their goods more generously at the service of others." When the documenl'> back such claims theologically, they speak about the Church itself as a sacra­ment-sacrifice in imitation of Christ. 
I have to confess that I am not quite ready for this ..readiness to accept the sacrifices necessary." To be so is counter-intuitive for a parent. It is much easier to say, "I am willing to sacrifice," than, "I am wiUing to have my child sac­rifice an instance of a basic good." It is much easier to say, "I will pay more so that both Flannery and the child of a stu­dent can attend," than "I am willing to structure admissions such that it might happen that another child rather than Flannery gets to attend." 
But the latter is what the social teach­ing requires if we look squarely at its implications. It is also one way that the university must move to get from "Notre Dame family" as metaphor to Notre Dame families as lived reality. 
Todd David Whitmore is an associate theology professor. His column appears every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily 
Take charge of your taco 
As human beings who support the rights of others, we have a responsibility to be moral consumers. As the recent cam­paign against sweatshops has shown, consumers can and should be concerned with what the money that they spend goes to support. 
The recent campaign against Nike sweatshops has shown that student awareness and protests can put pressure on major corporations and cause a real change. In this spirit, the newly formed Notre Dame StudenVFarmworker Alliance is calling on the Notre Dame family to help give voice to the voiceless. Migrant farmworkers provide us with our bounty of fruits and vegetables under deplorable conditions. Denied the right to a living wage, to any benefits, or to bargain collective­ly, these workers toil in a "sweatshop in the fields" right here in our own country. Through the application of pressure on a large buyer of Florida tomatoes, Taco Bell, the Student/Farmworker Alliance is hoping to bring about a fair wage and respect for farmworkers everywhere. 
Taco Bell made $5 billion in 1999, while its parent company, Tricon, is the world's largest restaurant system with $22 bil­lion in annual receipts. The average farmworker makes 
SCOTT ADAMS 
IT WON'T BE [f:>.5Y,  AND  fi,£1"\EMBER I  
BUT I'LL TAKE IT  1'1-\E CUSiOr-\ER. IS  
ONE BIRD  AT  A  ALWAYS  RIGI-\T­ 
11ME.. )  1-\~NOt.D.  TI-\IS IS I.__ I\CTUALLY t>.N  
IMPROVE.ME.NT.  


$7,500. Taco Bell deliberately targets college-aged students with its advertising, therefore our voice can become a power­ful one for the rights of these workers. If Taco Bell was to pay only one cent more for each pound of tomatoes, they could more then double their pay of their pickers. Please join us in this campaign to restore dignity to workers everywhere. Let Taco Bell hear your voice. Demand dignity and a living wage for the workers upon whose backs they have become success­ful. Please write a letter to: 
Emil J. Brolick, President and Chief Concept Ollicer 
Taco Bell Corp. 
17901 Von Karman 
Irvine, California ·92614 
1-800-TACO BELL 

Join us in protest at a local Taco Bell. Meet at Library Circle at 2 p.m. this Sunday, April 8 and publicly show your solidarity with farmworkers in their struggle for dialogue and a living wage. 
The Nocre Dame Student/Farmworker Alliance Apri14.2001 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''.A good deed never goes unpunished_" 
Gore Vidal author 
VIEWPOINT 
r,lHE 

Thursday, April 5, 2001 VBSERVER page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Thank you for support in our tragedy 
We have always been aware that the Notre Dame "community" is made up of special people but we didn't realize to what extent. With the recent passing of our daughter, Jenny, we have been blan­keter! with with support and comfort from many people. Those acts of kindness as well as I.he outpouring of help and cooper­ation have been a tremendous blessing to us. 
The viewing and wake at the Saint Joseph Chapel of Holy Cross College was indeed a most appropriate tribute to Jenny. She truly blossomed during her short stay there and we arc most appre­ciative of the people that touched her life and shared in her development. We were truly amazed at how many fine people she knew and cared about; it doesn't make the void disappear but it does add dimension to it. 
The funeral mass at the Sacred Heart Basilica provided us with a precious and moving experience that will never be for­gotten. We want to make sure that all those involved in creating this experience understand how much it meant to us and to our family. These memories will be · reflected upon for our remaining years and will be rekindled every time that we visit her at Cedar Grove. We are so thank­ful that she will rest close to the activity of the campus that she had come to know and love. 
Please know that we have the deepest gratitude for the memorable send-off, the uplifting mass, the final resting place and the warm reception for all Jenny's family and friends. We were moved by all the individual efforts to make it happen. 
Steve and Paula Nemeth 
Depere, WJS. March 28, 2001 


If there is one thing I have learned after 22 years, it is that we all have a pet peeve or two. I am no different. Call me quirky, but muddled economic arguments get my attention like fingernails on a chalkboard. Therefore, I must express my disagree­ment with Travis Metcalfe's column in Tuesday's edition of The Observer. He has valid concerns regarding the Free Trade Area of the Americas (FTAA), and I applaud him for voicing them, but the con­clusions he draws ignore basic economic theorv. 
In ihort, Mr. Metcalfe argues that the FTAA is not in the best interest of con­sumers, workers or society as a whole and only corporations would benefit from the implementation of the trade agreement. These claims are easy to make, but they do not stand up to basic economic analy­sis. 
Everyone who has taken (or should I say passed) an introductory economics course could explain to Mr. Metcalfe that when two or more counties engage in free trade. both countries benefit (due to comparative advantage). Certainly, introducing free trade can initially be disruptive to a coun­try's economy, but in the long run con­sumers enjoy lower prices and a larger selection of goods and services, workers have more and better paying job opportu­nities and society as a whole becomes wealthier (this is a good thing). 
One can raise credible objections to com­pletely free trade (regarding issues of national security, for instance), but Mr. Metcalfe does not. Instead, he relies on the concept of "exploitation" to argue against increased trade. Of course, the word "exploitation" immediately draws the attention of many, especially those opposed to a market-based economy. However, free trade does not promote exploitation, but rather opportunities, especially for poor countries. 
ideally, everyone in the world would make $30,000 a year, but the harsh reality is that in poor Latin America countries most people are content to make $3,000 or $4,000, and often even less. Continuing to deny them access to world markets only condemns them to remain at this unac­ceptably low level of income. On the other hand encouraging trade, even with already wealthy countries, offers them the oppor­tunity to raise their standard of living. This will not happen overnight, but Vvithout free trade, it may not happen at all. 
Patrick Blaney 
~enior 
off.campus April 3, 200 l 

Show Saint Mary's the money 
Last Wednesday I served as the moderator at the open forum addressing the issue of "The Vagina Monologues." I bit my tongue and refrained from adding my own opin­ion in order to remain a neutral moderator. I wanted to join in sup­port of. not only "The Vagina Monologues," but of the women who courageously performed them on our campus. 
Part of the discussion focused on the issue of money. Many agreed that if Saint Mary's had more money, we would not have to depend on alumni and outside monetary sup­port and would therefore be "freer" to make decisions about issues like the "Monologues," which directly affect the freedom of students on campus. 
One student pointed out that the seniors will soon join the ranks of alumni and many will not be giving money back to Saint Mary's because of the treatment received surround­ing this issue and many issues like it. There are indeed alumni out there now who have been discon­certed by the censorship of the "Monologues" and are currently withholding financial support from the college. 
I would like to propose a compro­mise. We are in the midst of the "Senior Leadership Campaign" which is an attempt to solicit a mere $10 from each senior to leave as a gift for the college. 
Apparently this money will be con­tributed to the general fund or if enough is raised will be used toward a "gift" in the new student center. I know that many women, including myself, feel weary about donating this money and many have chosen to make a statement by not donating. 
Rather than silently refusing to give this money, I would like to pro­pose that any senior, who feels strongly about the issues surround­ing the monologues, donate her money to Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination {CARE) -the club that originally wanted to sponsor ''The Vagina Monologues" and whose offi­cers were punished by our college for being part of the performance. 

By donating money to CARE or perhaps to the Women's Center or even to the Women's Studies pro­gram, we can take pride in finan­cially supporting the future of Saint Mary's College and also be sure that our monetary support will be con­tributing to ptlsitive programs and activities that we believe in. 
I know many seniors have report­ed feeling upset or jaded by recent events and issues surrounding "The Vagina Monologues." Let's not let that overpower our pride in Saint Mary's College. We have all worked hard through our time here. After graduation let's use our influence as alumnae to take an active role in helping to develop Saint Mary's into the kind of school we are proud to represent in this world. 
I am sending my $10 to CARE as a way to show support for the officers who so bravely fought fo bring "The Vagina Monologues" to campus this year and to insure that my financial donation to Saint Mary's College will be in safe hands. Seniors, please join me in this by writing a short note to appropriate administrators and let's show Saint Mary's College what our money can do now and in the future. (Checks can be made out to CARE and delivered to any of the club's officers.) 
Carolyn Kelley 
off-campus April 3, 2001 

People cannot be contained by race 
I have always thought that the American Association of Anthropology's stance to "discredit any decisive notion of race," as cited in Anthony Pagliarini's letter Tuesday, is misinterpreted if it is used to argue that there are no definable genetic dif­ferences among human populations. This seems to be a particularly blink­ered attitude in an era that celebrates diversity and values biodiversity. 
When I was in graduate school, I worked with an anthropologist who argued forcefully that there was no such thing as race. This was a woman who had been adopted as an infant and never knew her birth parents. At the time I met her, her husband worked as an advocate with American Indian groups and one day my col­league told me something that she was obviously very proud of. 
She said that when she met the women in the tribal association, they told her, "You look so much like us. We really think you were one of the children who were given up for adop• tion out of the tribe when they were babies. We thlnk you are one of us." 
My friend had a new-found sense of belonging and being related to a group and I was happy for her. I for­bore to mention that she had been recognized as probably being part of that group on the basis of her racial characteristics. These women had accepted that my colleague was one of themselves because after evaluating her outward physical appearance they concluded that she was genetically close to them. She was related, she was family. 

Around tho world, humans group themselves into populations whose members are more related to each other and genetically alike than they are to members of other populations. Like families grown large, these racial entities are not always sharply defined, but they are no less real. 
They are no less worthy of consider­ation in the current arena of bioethi­cal debate. And after all, how do we celebrate diversity unless we affirm that it exist5'? 
Susan L. Sprecher 
Hesburgh Library staff 
South Bend, Ind. 
April 4, 2001 

_______,,______________________________________...-=-~--------..____________._ 
M 
cene E 

page 14 Thursday, April 5, 2001 
MOVIE REVIEW 
'Spy Kids' brings creative genius to family flick 
By GUNDER KEHOE Scene Movie Critic 
It's hard those days to balance a life of love and espionage but it's even harder to make a decent kids movie that doesn't lose the older half of it.'> audience. Most movies aimed at the younger generation must give lhc parents shivers as was painfully evi­dent when the "Pokemon" trailer graced the screen. After all. parents pay for the tickets and buy the Goobers, so God forbid they should actually enjoy the show. 
"Spy Kids" has set out to change the norm. A family movie is a movie the whole family can Pnjoy. Director Robert Hodriguez has embarked with heedless ,Lbandon upon the concept of family spies and made a film with as much directorial energy IL'i anything in recent memory. 
Antonio Banderas and Carla Gugino are two professional spies. When thLc; married couple is kidnapped, their kids resume the spy-work to save their parents. As one might expect from a PG spy movie, the story is no harder to follow than tying one's shoe,. but the director's inventive execution will capture every viewer. 
Sorry to those who are looking for a plot analysis and a critique of the actor's per­formances, but "Spy Kids" will not be done justice if story and characters are this review's focus. "Spy Kids" is a tribute to creative genius and how a single vision can overcome the bloated budgets of contem­porary movies that are overworked with digital effects. 
Rodriguez is the Hispanic filmmaker famous for making films on a shoestring budget. and while he's graduated to studio lllmmaking, he hasn't lost his sense of untamed creativity. In .. El Mariachi," 
Rodriguez was the lone gunman, simultaneous­ly directing the film while also working on the sound recorders and detonating small squibs for bullet wounds. "Spy Kids" is a chance for Rodriguez to once again tackle every technical skill. Yet he's gone a step further and mastered the art of visu­al effects. 
A f t e r becoming comfortable 
with cinematic trickery, Rodriguez used only the post-production help of a small team in Canada. When he had problems. he just got on the video conferencing screen and consulted a group of Canadians a few thousand miles away. 
"Spy Kids" has over 500 effects shots and it's incredible to think that nearly a single man was concocting the entire cha­rade in his own car­port. For those 

naysayers who role "Spy Kids" few years ago, director their eyes and ask Barry Sonnenfeld thought what this action mae­he could save "Wild Wild stro (Rodriguez also 
West's" non-existent directed "Desperado" screenplay with a myriad and "From Dusk 'Til of computer graphics.
out of fiue shamrocks

DaWTI") is doing helm­Instead. he took millions ing a kids flick, just of dollars and did the imagine a single artist Director: Robert Rodriguez equivalent of flushing in the confines of his Starring: Antonio Banderas, legal tender down the toi­
own garage. piecing 
Carla Cugino
together special effects. This image alone should prove the filmmaker's artistic integrity and how a single, enthusiastic vision can outweigh even the most juvenile of premises. 
"Spy Kids" is laden with effects, perhaps even more so than many of the movies that cost three times as much. While the effects are anything but cutting-edge, what "Spy Kids" lacks in production value it makes up for with style and charm. Rodriguez uses the trickery of yesteryear by employ­ing everything from greenscreens to plastic models. 
The end result is a campy effects display that shines in the same vein as "Willy Wonka's Chocolate Factory." When Charlie and his uncle burst through the sky in a great glass elevator, the two characters admire London from their wondrous bird's-eye view. The effects are so dated it's frightening. but there's more pleasure in watching that sequence than anything in "Hollow Man," which was hailed for its CG! breakthroughs. 

At first. "Spy Kids" might appear chintzy, but Rodriguez's hand is felt on each of the 500 effect.c;. It is precisely this dirnctorial energy that makes the inexpensive effects feel more valuable than anything triple its price. 
Many Ilollywood films have limitless budgets. so when there's a problem the studios can pile on more money. hoping to gloss over the stury llaws with expensive visuals. A 
let. 
Hodriguez not only 

proves himself a magi­cian with the camera, he displays astound­ing financial savvy by finding cheap but creative ways to convey his point. At $36 million, "Spy Kids" is a tribute to how restricted budgets enhance the creative output. When money is at a minimum, filmmakers must find new and different ways to stretch their resources. 
The young children of today who see this movie won't know how lucky they arc for many years to come. "Spy Kids" is not about a big studio, manufacturing some formulaic promise to swindle money from unsuspecting children and their folks. Instead, there's a maverick filmmaker who's taken all the funky styles of H-rated movies and given them to a younger gen­eration. 
Hodriguez was smart: he cut a nice back­end deal for himself and made an inexpen­sive family flick that's raking in the cash. Now he can laugh all the way to the bank and then go back to his garage, and start production on another work of family art. 

MOVIE REVIEW 
Avoid raunchy 'Tomcats' at all costs 
Their misogynistic lifestyles and haphaz­such a thing being displayed on screen. "Tomcats" wants to defile 105 minutes of'By JUDE SEYMOUR ard attitudes concerning relationships This review is giving more time to a your existence. Heed the advice given in 
Scene Movie Critic 
would make them devoid of female com­movie that doesn't need a single word this column, and find a better way to spend panionship in any reality. These men, how­printed on its behalf. Llfe is precious, and your afternoon. 
"Tomcats" is a waste of celluloid, a ever, are portrayed as god-like; women waste of money and a waste of time. After cannot help but line up to have sexual105 minutes, it led this reviewer to one intercourse with them. The entire movieconclusion: it is. the worst movie he has plays out as a warped male fantasy. That ever seen. "Tomcats"' combination of dis­theme has been brought to screen before;gusting humor. atrocious acting and idiotic it was called "Road Trip." "Road Trip,"plots are only three reasons why no one despite all its faults, never suggested that ashould see this movie. 
woman would be so empty-headed as to

In the film, Michael 
enjoy being run over by aDelaney (Jerry O'Connell) 

golf cart as "Tomcats"

has to come up with "Tomcats" 
does however. 

$51,000 in thrne davs after The movie does not 
a bad run in a ca.'iino. The zero out offive shamrocks seem to mind its transpar­only way to come up with 
ent nature, however. Thethat much money quickly is transparency of the char­to marry off his friend. Kyle Director: Gregory Poirier 

acters complements the(Jake Busey). Kyle and 

Starring: Jerry O'Connell, transparent plot perfectly. 

Michael are the two 
It was mentioned that

remaining "tomcats" Shannon Elizabethe, Jake 
Michael takes off to find 

(bachelors) from a bet BuseyandHoralioSanz 
Natalie. Since the two amongst friends seven 

meet, even the most casual years ago which stipulated moviegoer can figure out what happensthe last man to get married would collect a next. 

pot, which incidnnt.ally ha'i reached a half The gross-out action sequences are themillion dollars. When Kyle mentions his movie's worst insult to its audience. One one chance at ''true love" was with Natalie scene. in particular. "climaxes" with a manParker (Shannon Elizabeth). Michael takes eating a cancerous testicle as if it were aofT to find Natalie and set the two up again. 
pastry. In the age of gross-out jokes,

The movie assembles the most stereo­"Tomcats" has crossed the line of goodtypical men to play this group of friends. 
taste. The audience moans in horror at 


'7 
Thursday, April 5, 2001 page 15 
a 


MOVIE FEATURE 
'Crimes and Misdemeanors' raises tough questions 
calling on his brother, Jack (Jerry Orbach), to exercise some awkward moments, he is nevertheless accepting
By JUDE SEYMOUR 
his Mafia connections and orchestrate a hit on the responsibility that it is "up to us to make happi­
Scene Movie Critic 
Dolores. ness exist." Joining him is Dolores. who is an "emo­
Woody Allen has already established the two themes tionally hungry" woman that has found true love with 
"The eyes of God are on us always," Judah 
of the movie. "Crimes and Misdemeanors" explores Judah. As Professor Levy (the subject of a Cliff Stern Rosenthal's dad lold him growing up. At the turn of the "convenience" of God and the indisputable need in documentary and philosopher on life, love, and reli­the century, the Rosenthal family seems to he divided this world to be loved. In a broader sense, the film ·gion) explains, "Happiness does not seem to be in the 
in terms of how they view their faith. Judah's dad is a examines how choices people make establish their world's plans. The universe is cold; we need love." strir.t follower: "If a man performs an act of evil. God moral universe. Judah does not relate to Dolores' sense of needi~g sees. He will be punished for eternity.'' Characters line up behind the opposing points at the love. He felt that need once, but that was when he 
Judah's aunts and uncles vehemently disagree -Rosenthal dinner table. Jack, who is connected to the thought he felt a void in his life. When Jerry suggests
"Only if he's caught will anyone know that he's done mob, feels no guilt unless he is caught. The same "whacking" Dolores to solve his problems, Judah is evil." Clearly. Judah faced could be said for Lester conflicted. Judah never picked a side at that dinner disagreement at his own (Alan Alda). but in a dif'­conversation; his conscience hints at an evil-punishing
dinner table, which might 
ferent_ way. As an inde­God. Judah makes his decision, however, with the explain why he flip-flops pendently wealthy and stipulation that "God is a luxury I can't afford." agree­about believing in God so successful producer of ing to fund the murder. A shot of Professor Levy'smuch. TV shows, Lester's interview follows, offering a haunting postscript: "God 
.Judah Rosenthal (Martin glad-handing of people, cares but he demands you act morally."Landau) is a respected his serving of his libido Judah is conflicted after the murder, but soon learns ophthalmologist with a and his determination to forget about his guilt after a couple of months, Ile posh home in Connecticut. to become richer pre­has finally picked a side: religion, just as it was to his a wife of many years sumes that he does not aunts and uncles. is merely a superstition. Judah IMiriam. played by Claire think he will be judged relies on the non-existence of God. Maybe he knows Bloom) and a thriving for his greediness by a best as an ophthalmologist; after all. ate not the eyespractice. Two years ago, higher power. His only the windows to the soul? If Judah has not found God however, he was enticed guilt comes when Cliff after years of being an eye doctor, no wonder his guilt
into an affair bv an airline (Woody Allen) compiles is assuaged so easily.stewardess, -Dolores 
a documentarv on all of For Cliff, his search for love ends in a depressing(Anjelica Huston). 
Lester's most·licentious manner. The woman he married, he does not love,
In the heat of some moments, making and the woman he thought he loved, Hally Reed (Miaintensr. sexual moments, Lester aware of how he Farrow). learned to love someone else (in this case,Judah started making is sometimes perceived. the "archenemy" Lester). Seated at a piano, Cliff promising commitments to "Crimes and Misdemeanors," starring Martin Landau The other side of the crosses paths with Judah Rosenthal. Judah, cognizantOolores. When she finally and Woody Allen, examines how people's choices in Rosenthal dinner table of Cliffs profession, pitches the last four months of his insists on collecting, Judah love and life establish their own moral universes. (the side that the God­life as a movie: "the perfect murder." Cliff rejects it as 
stammers, asking her to be fearing Judah's dad being too unbelievable. realistic. Dolores threatens represented) may be For him, the movie of Judah's life would end with a to expose Judah's indiscretions. After years of hard Cliff Stern. Cliff is a struggling documentary director confession of his bad deeds to the police. For Cliff, a work building up his practice and his marriage. he who has a fetish for consuming a movie almost every confession will be good in the eyes of God. For Judah, rebuffs the idea that one impropriety will ruin him. He day of his life. His guide in life is the creation of his if there is no God, there is no need for a confession. mulls over two options: taking Rabbi Ben's (Sam own moral universe, which is dominated by his feel­Cliff should have known better: he has seen enoughWatterson) advice and confessing all to his wife or ings of love. While his expressions of love cause him movies to know that is indeed the perfect ending. 
MOVIE REVIEW 
'Someone Like You' more than just a chick flick 


becomes hugely popular among the room for a vulnerability that keeps the throughout the plot. 
By ADAM WELTLER 
"Oprah" crowd and soon Jane's boss wants audience on her side. Greg Kinnear is a Like all the other characters, Eddie isn't 
Scene Movie Critic 
her to book the false doctor on her show. guy who's easy to like, but also to feel sorry untouched by the pains of love and failed \Vhat a dilemma. Not to mention that Jane for. Kinnear is another talented actor with relationships, and he brings real insight to If vou think "Someone Like You" is just and Eddie are starting to fall in love, but a great comedic touch, but he can't seem why we do act the way we do, male and another chick flick, you're absolutely right. hey, we all saw that one coming, didn't to shake the pansy male roles. But it works female, proving once again that men really
Not much differentiates this movie from 
we? here; even though· he dumped Jane, we do know a thing or two about love, we justthe plethora of female-targeted romantic All that said, "Someone Like You" is not can't hate him completely because he just don't gripe about it all the time. comedies that guys have been dragged to a horrible flick and is surprisingly funny at doesn't seem like he has control over much "Someone Like You" may be a chick 
by a girlfriend; but. luckily. "Someone Like 
times. The movie is based on Laura of anything. flick, but men can take some enjoymentYou" has its humorous moments and a tal­Zigman's book, "Animal Husbandry," The male saving grace of the movie is away from it. It may be lacking a few car ented cast to keep women interested and whose title is a lot more interesting than clearly Hugh Jackman, a man who's help­chases and ninjas, but your date will like it,men from dying of boredom. the film's title. Jane's theory on men drawn ing to put hair back on the chest of and you might just get a few laughs out of 
The plot involves the gorgeous Ashley from behaviors in the animal kingdom Hollywood's leading men. Almost every it too. .Judd as Jane makes for some guy knows him 
Goodale, a television as Wolverine, talk show booker "Someone Like You" ~s~:~ro0ur5 :::a;~ but instead of 
who enters a rela­
cows that are both wearing the X, tionship with the 
interesting and this time he show's executive amusing. But deep brings the onlyproducer Hay (Greg out of five shamrocks · down the audience real Y-chromo­Kinnearl. Jane falls knows that, once some into the head over heels in Director: Tony Goldwyn again, their sitting sea of estrogen
love and then is Starring: Ashley Judd, Hugh Jackman, through a movie that is this film. 
crushf>d when Hay about a jilted He doesn't ratio­calls off the rrlation-Greg Kinnear and Marisa Tomei 
woman who is try­nalize or make ship. To make mat­ing 'lo rationalize excuses for his 
ters worse. Jane had planned to move in what happened in her relationship and polygamouswith him and now needs a place to live. 
placing the blame on men as a whole. The behavior; he Enter Eddie Dlugh Jackman from "X­

moral of the story brings us back to reality, embraces it and Men"l, the quintessential womanizing teaching us that you can't categorize all makes it his man's man and coworker of Jane who con­men as mind.h~ss sex-fiends walking hor­own. And 
viently happens to have an extra room in monally through life on a never-ending refreshinglyhis bachelor pad. So Jane moves in with quest to fulfill our biological urges. It's not enough in a 
Eddie and starts to formulate a 
spoiling anything to say that the ftlm con­movie based on biological/anthropological theory of why cludes happily and predictably with a satis­a book by a men lie, use women, etc. -basically why 

fying finish. woman and they act the way they do from the behav­The actors are really what make this film adapted by a 
iors of wild animals. Meanwhile. she pub­work. Ashley Judd is a charming actress woman, he 
lishes this theory in a local magazine under who is not difficult on the eyes. She can remains the sole 
Hugh Jackman and Ashley Judd redeem "Someone Like
the pseudonym Dr. Marie Charles where it bring strength to any role and still leave voice of reason 
You," making the love story appealing to both genders. 

r a 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, April 5, 2001 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

Braves edge Mets on Lockhart's pinch-hit fielder's choice 
.... 
Associat...! Press 
ATLANTA 
Pin ch-hitter Keith ,Loe khart 
knocked in the winning run on 
a fielder's choice in the ninth 
inning and the Atlanta Braves 
edged the New York Mets 3-2 
on Wednesday night. 

Brian Jordan opened the ninth with a walk off loser Donne Wall before Turk Wendell came on and retired Javy Lopez on a fly to left. 
Rico Brogna. however, dou­bled to right, sending Jordan to third before Lockhart hit a bouncer to the right side of the mound. Wendell fielded the ball, but his off-balance throw home wasn't close as Jordan the game-winner. 
The Mets tied it at 2 in the 

ninth off John Rocker on an 
RBI single by Jay Payton. 

Robin Ventura, who hit a two-run homer off Rocker in Tuesday night's 6-4 Mets win over the Braves, led off the ninth against the Atlanta left­hander by drawing a walk on a 3-2 count. 
Rocker struck out Mike Piazza, but walked Todd Zeile. also on a 3-2 pitch, advancing pinch runner Joe McEwing to second. Payton then singled to left, scoring McEwing easily, but Zeile got caught between second and third and was tagged out by Chipper Jones for the second out before pinch-hitter Todd Pratt popped out to end the inning. 
Rocker (1-0) got the win despite giving up the tying run. He gave up one hit, walked two and struck out one in his inning of work. 
The Braves had gone ahead 2-0 in the fourth off Kevin Appier, making his National League debut. on a two-run single by Jones and got six strong innings of pitching from starter Kevin Millwood, who had a poor spring. 
Millwood, who struggled during the spring with a 12.46 ERA, allowed only three hits. one run, walked one and struck out two in six innings. 
Millwood also had a hand in 
the Braves' scoring. 
He reached with one out in 
the fourth when he struck out 
on a wild pitch and Rafael 
Furcal singled him to second. 
After Qui!vio Veras grounded 
out, Andruw Jones walked to 
load the bases and Chipper 
Jones followed with his single 
to right field off the glove of a 
diving Timo Perez, giving 
Atlanta a 2-0 lead. 
Appier, who signed a four• year, $42 million free agent deal during the winter after 11 seasons in the AL, went six innings. The right-hander gave up five hits, two earned runs, walked one and struck out four. 
The Mets made it 2-1 in the sixth when Perez singled with one out off Millwood and went to second on a walk to Edgardo Alfonso. 
Ventura then grounded to first baseman Rico Brogna, who threw Alfonso out at sec­ond, but shortstop Furcal's Lhrow to first went wild for an error, scoring Perez with Ventura taking second. 
Piazza then singled to cen­ter, but Andruw Jones threw out 
Ventura at the plate on a perfect one-hop throw to Lopez. 
Phillies 7, Marlins 3 
Bobby Abreu had two hits, including a home run, and Philadelphia scored four runs in the eighth inning to beat Florida and complete the Phillies' first season-opening three-game sweep since 1994. 
With Philadelphia trailing 3­2 heading into the eighth, Marlins reliever Dan Miceli (0­
1) walked three batters sand­wiched around an infield sin­gle by Pat Burrell. 
After one of two wild pitches thrown by Miceli scored Scott Rolen to tie it, the go-ahead run came in on pinch-hitter David Newhan's sacrifice fly. 
Doug Glanville's soft liner to left was misplayed by Cliff Floyd to score two more. 
Derrek Lee and Preston 
Wilson hit solo home runs to 
give the Marlins a 2-1 lead 
after six. 
Marlins starter Brad Penny couldn't hold the one-run lead in the seventh as he allowed three consecutive two-out sin­gles, including Jimmy Rollins' RBI up the middle. Kevin Jordan, who scored on Rollins' hit, started the rally with a pinch-hit single. · 
Tied at 2 in the bottom of the seventh. Alex Gonzalez. Luis Castillo and Eric Owens all singled off reliever Rheal Cormier (1-0), who picked up the win. Cliff Floyd's RBI groundout made it 3-2. 
Tied at 1 in the sixth, Wilson. who hit 31 homers last year, hit a 3-2 pitch 448 feet away over the scoreboard in left-center. 
Penny, a 22-ycar-old right­hander who was 2-0 with a 
2.35 ERA against the Phillies during his rookie season last year, allowed two runs on eight hits while striking out five and walking one. 
Rolen hit a bloop double to right and scored on Burrell's do'uble off the right-center field wall to tie it 1-1 in the fourth. Burrell's hit snapped an 0-for-9 start. 
Lee, who had been O-for-6, hit a 43 7 -foot home run off the upper-deck facade to give Florida a 1-0 lead in the sec­ond. 
Abreu homered in the ninth to make it 7-3. 
Phillies starter Bruce Chen pitched 5 1-3 innings, allowing the two homers and seven hits with five strikeouts. 
Expos 3, Cubs 2 
Putting runners on base isn't the problem for Chicago. It's getting them home. 
Vladimir Guerrero's two-run single and Orlando Cabrera's RBI single in the first inning was all Montreal needed for the victory as the Cubs strand­ed 11 runners. 
"Hitters drool in those situa­tions, and we couldn't get the 

ball out of the infield," Cubs 
manager Don Baylor said. "We 
just couldn't get that one big 
hit to blow it open and score 
two or three runs." 

Chicago had plenty of 
chances. The Cubs had the 
bases loaded in the third 
inning with one out. Of the 11 
runners lert on base, six were 
at third and three at second. 
They blew an opportunity in 
the ninth after Eric Young led 
off with a single, stole second 
and moved to third on Bill 
Mueller's sacrifice. 

That brought up Sammy 
Sosa, who drew a walk. With 
slow-throwing Ugueth Urbina 
on the mound, Baylor said 
Sosa got the "go-on-your-own 
sign." Sosa said he got the 
steal sign. 

"l didn't go on my own, no 
way," Sosa said. 

Regardless of what he saw, 
he went. Bad move. 

Though Urbina was facing toward third base, he whirled around and threw to first, and Sosa got caught between the bases. 
"I don't know what he was 
thinking, but the first-and­
third move was on and it 
worked with perfect timing," 
Expos first baseman Lee 
Stevens said. "We tried to 
catch them and we did at the 
right time." 

Said Sosa, "I was trying to do something, start something. I'll take the blame." 
Britt Reames (1-0) gave up two unearned runs and five hits in six innings. He also struck out four and walked. four. Urbina pitched the ninth for his second save. 
Kerry Wood, on the Opening-Day roster for the first time in his career, struck out 10, but he also gave up all three runs and eight hits in seven innings. Ricky Gutierrez and Gary Matthews Jr. drove in Chicago's runs. 
"It was ugly, but it got the job done," Reames said. "We'll take it any way we can get it." 
Wood (0-1) got off to a rough start, giving up a leadoff sin­gle, walking the second batter 
and throwing· a wild pitch. He 
struck out Fernando Tatis, but 
then gave up the two-run sin­
gle to Guerrero. 

By the time the first inning 
was over, the Expos had a 3-0 
lead and Wood had gi:ven up 
four hits. 

"I wish I could have the first 
inning back, but I can't,'' 
Wood said. "My control got 
better as the game went on, 
but I think I went out there 
with some pretty good stuff in 

the first inning. Unfortunately, 
they got three runs." 

lie settled down arter the 
first, even showing flashes of 
the pitcher who was NL 
Hookie of the Year in 1998. lie 
allowed only two walks -one 
intentional -a double and 
two singles the rest of the 
way. 
Montreal twice put two men on, but Wood immediately induced inning-ending popouts both times. 
''I thought he pitched very good after the f'irst inning," lleames said. "Fortunately, we scored three runs in the first and it was all we needed." 
Chicago couldn't overcome the damage from the lirst. The Cubs scored a run each in the second and third to cut the Expos· lead to 3-2, but wasted opportunities in both innings to tie the game or even take the lead. 
In the second, Wood ground­ed out to end the inning with two on. 
In the third, Hondel! White drew a walk to load the bases. That brought up Todd Hundley, the son of Cubs catcher Randy Ilundley and a Chicago native. Hundley, expected to be a fan favorite, got a rude homecoming, draw­ing boos when he struck out. 
"It didn't surprise me, I stunk," Hundley said. "I deserved it. Those people pay their hard-earned money and they expect to see a good baseball game." 
Gutierrez singled in one run, but Stairs popped out to end the inning, leaving three stranded. 

CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for contenc without issuing refunds.  
Chicago two bedroom in Lakeview  ROOMS FOR GRAD WEEKEND  Roommate(s) to fill out house off  
LOST AND FOUND  FOR RENT  owned by Domer, nice closets, brick 6-flat, Hardwood floors, bright apartment, decorative fireplace,  Wild Irish Rose Inn 3mi north of campus •brkfst buffet ea AM  campus Call Michael@ 288-3429  PERSONAL  
LOST  near el, heat included! May 1  "clean, comfortable & afford- Now hiring servers and hostesses  
A black carry-on bag at  5 miles from Notre Dame  1250/month 773.472.7775  able  at LePeep ­ Downtown South  Welcome Moms Miller and Civale to  
Main Circle on Thursday  Close lo everything  (2190 277-4303 or  Bend.  Saint Mary's! We're going to have a  
(3/22) between 8 pm and midnight.  4 bedrooms 1.5 baths recently  3-bdrm home 2 blks from campus,  www.wildinshrose.com  Great Hours, great Pay, Great Funl  wonderful weekend!  
If lound or have any info on its  remodeled  Fall 01. 273-1566  288-7337  
whereabouts, please contact Pablo at x1ns  Main level laundry finished base­men! 2076 living area  3 houses still available for 2001-02, 5-6 BR, Furnished, W/D, prime  WANTED  Need part-time leasing. Now to September. 20-25 hrs/week.  Only tour weeks. Shoutout to CMcC. You know what  
plenty of storage  locations, 233-9947 Greg  Organization skills, filing, phone.  four weeks means? It means only 8  
FOR SALE  Call 256-0698  CHICAGO APT. AVAILABLE FOR  Summer interns ­Publishing/MarkeliQQ (Northbrook,  Call tara 272-1441 or 272 1461 .  more classes with our favorite lefty. Sweet.  
New home Fall 2001. This 3+  MAY THROUGH AUGUST IN LIN- Ill)  Need infant childcare for 6 month  
1987 Chevy Cavalier  bdrm, 3 bath homw is close to cam-·  COLN PARK LOCATION. CLOSE  BECOMING FAMILY, a recently  old Wed & Fri 8-5. Contact Kristen  I am not a mushroom-head. It's two  
4 spd. Stick, 2 door, !owner, mov­ pus with features like fireplace,  TOEL  launched national magazine that  631-8270  years later. I don't think it should be  
ing, great college car  cahedral ceilings, family room,  1 or 2 BEDROOMS  celebrates and encourages family  held against me. We all have bad  
$350  deluxe appliances, 24)(30 garage.  OWN BATHROOM  life is looking for interns  Graduating seniors:  hair days. Or years.  
I  ,.  Call 289-9864  $1400/mo. Call 219-232·4527 or 616-683-5038  $780/mo 1-312-443-6062 JAIME  (www.becomingfamily.com). One position is MARKETING, the other  Looking to sell your apartment turni­ture (beds, desks, couches, etc)?  I want my Dawsons' CD back  
Europe $199 one way.  EDITORIAL. Email resumes to  ND juniors looking to buy. Call Nick  
Mexico/Caribbean or Central  Turtle Creek townhouse available  3·6 BDRM HOMES  John Madigan ('84) at info@becom­ at 4-4716 ii interested.  I want to feel sunlight  
America $250 round trip plus tax.  tor summer session  $180 per person  ingfamily.com and indicate interest  on my face  
Other wide destinations cheap. If  Call 272-0915  Furn. Summer/Fall 272-6306  Marketing or Editorial  Indiana Catholic couple with huge  I see the dust cloud disappear with- 
you beat these prices start your  hearts wishing to adopt a child. We  out a trace  
own darn airline! Book tickets on  Nice 3-bdrm 1-1 /2 bath  Rooms for rent. $250-$400/mo. +  Returning to NO after college for  can provide your baby with lots of  I want to seek shelter from the poi- 
line www.airtech.com or toll free  Tri-level, family room, fireplace,  $100 up front deposit  graduate or law school?  love and a secure, stable life.  son rain  
(877) AIRTECH  tenced back yard. 2-car garage  (refundable). Include. Utilities, w/d,  Reasonable expenses will be paid.  Where the slreets have no name  
$995/mo  partially furnished, stove, retrig,  We are looking for another room- For more info, please call Rebecca  
Full size bed with box spring and  Call 219·232•4527  micro. Call Robert 234-9387 (home)  mate to share furnished house near  re: Larry & Kathy; toll-free 1-866­ hope you ladies brought your linens  
frame $150 call 634-4575  Or 616-683-5038  or 286-9387 (cell)  campus. Call 289-5651  30-ADOPT  to the barracks--hahaha  

Thursday, March 5, 2001 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
page 17 


The Notre Dame Law School Natural Law Institute presents 
The Olin 
--~ ...,,,,c_,-~ ~-__,,,.... ......,,,,.,,,. __ ~ .,,.,,,,,-,, 

Distinguished Lecture Series 
II 


ea



rut.-II 

Upcoming Lectures 
John Gardner April 10 
Germain Grisez April 19 
Timothy Endicott 

Fellow in Law Balliol College. Oxford University 
Thursday,April s. 2001 
4 p.m. 

Notre Dame Laur School Cou1troom 
..
r-----pllllag·e•lr8--------=z.________________T._h_e_O_b_se 
I I 
I 
I NCAA BASKETBALL 
I 
....r..ve_r_._S_P_O_R_T_S-:-____________.....____T-hu-r-sd-a..y·,-A_p_c-il_5_,2_0_0_1--, 
I •
I 
I 
I 
I 
Orr takes over SHU helm 
Associated Press 
SOUTH ORANGE, N.J. 

Louis Orr repeatedly praised God and asked for his help as he was intro­duced Wednesday as Seton Hall's new bas ­k e t ­b a I l coach. 
And t h e f o r ­m e r 
New 
York Knick and Indiana Pacer probably will need plenty of assistance to lUrn around a program left reeling by some sud­den departures. Coach Tommy Amaker bolted for Michigan, and starting forward Eddie Griffin is bound for the NBA after just one year with the Pirates. 
Orr left Siena to become Seton llall's 17th head coach, and must immedi­ately concentrate on hold­ing together a team whose players are consid­ering transferring else­where in the wake of a disappointing season and the past week's upheaval. 
"I can understand the turmoil and anguish these young men are going through, having lost a good head coach like Tommy Amaker," he said at a news conference. "Change is inevitable; it's a part of our life. But change doesn't have to be bad: it can be a good thing." 

Orr said he'll seek to preserve as much of the roster as he can before focusing on recruiting c!Torts. 
"I think I've got to recruit the players we've got rather than concen­trating on new ones," Orr said. "This is my family now. When you're family, you fight to keep your family." 
His efforts appeared to be paying off. Marcus Toney-El will stay and try to rebuild with Orr. And Tony-El 
hasn't said it, but me and Andre speak alike. We share the same thoughts." 
Junior guard Ty Shine is excited about having Orr lead the Pirates. 
"This season didn't go the way it should have," he said. "This can be a good thing. It's real tough losing a coach like Coach Amaker, but I think Coach Orr is a great coach. I'm looking forward to getting started. Hopefully we can get this thing turned around and start getting some more W's." 
Griffin, Barrett and Toney-El arrived at Seton Hall last year as part of one of the nation's top recruiting classes. The Pirates reached the round of 16 in the NCAA Tournament in 2000, and there was much anticipa­
tion about 
said fel­how far
"/ can understand the 
l o w they would 
fresh­turmoil and anguish go this sea­
m a n these young men are son. And re Seton Hall
going through." 
Barrett was ranked is think­as high as ing the Louis Orr No. 7 early 
s a m e Seton Hall basketball coach 
in the sea­
W~Y­1 
really don't want to leave," Toney-El said. "Transferring would be the end-all; it wouldn't have been right. And he 
son, but the 
Pirates fal­tered shortly after Griffin was suspended for punch­ing junior guard Shine following a loss at Georgetown. 

Smith signs extension , with Wildcats until ·2007 
Associated Press 

LEXINGTON, Ky. 
All season long, Kentucky coach Tubby Smith said he was happy as boss of the Wildcats and had no intention of leaving anytime soon. 
He backed up those words Wednesday. agreeing to a four-year contract extension that will keep him in the Bluegrass through the 2006­2007 season. 
"We've agreed, it's a done deal and now we just have to get it on paper," athletics director Larry Ivy said fol­lowing a meeting of the school's ath­letics association board of directors. "We looked at several of the top institutions in the country and I think, once our figures arc released, you'll see that we're right there with those institutions. 
"It's a figure that Tubby was very satisfied with and something that I feel is deserved for him for the job he's done." 
Ivy declined to release exact num­bers on the new deal until the con­tract is finalized and signed, which could come as early as Thursday. He said that he looked at the contracts of Duke's Mike Krzyzewski, Michigan State's Tom Izzo, Arizona's Lute Olson and Kansas' Roy Williams among others in determining the new numbers. 
"You've got a range from $1.2 to $1.7 million there," Ivy said. "It basi­cally is the same contract he has now with a change in the number of years 
and the dollars with a tweak or two 
here and there." 
Smith, who currently makes $1.2 a per season, signed a five-year con­tract to succeed Rick Pitino prior to the 1997-98 season. Arter leading the Wildcats to their seventh national championship in his inaugural sea­son, the school extended that con­tract another year. 
Ivy said Smith's deal will not top the reported $2 million a year that will be paid to former Kentucky coach Hick Pitino, who signed with bitter rival Louisville last month. 
"I don't think we'd go that high," he said. 
Smith, who has a 110-33 record and has made three trips to the round of 16 in four years at Kentucky, was not available for com­ment. Ivy said he and Smith will hold a news conference to discuss the deal in detail once the contract is signed. 
lvy said recent rumors that Smith had been offered the South Carolina job for as much as $2 million a year did not concern him and had no impact on the negotiations. 
"Tubby never mentioned South Carolina to me," Ivy said. "I gave [South Carolina athletic director] Mike McGee my permission to speak to him, and I don't know what their conversations were. 
"Anytime any of our coaches in any sport have the chance to look at another opportunity, we want them to do that. Obviously, this was not something that Tubby wanted to con­sider seriously." 
Are you concerned that you might be drinking too much? Do you ever drink to forget problems or to relieve stress?Does your drinking ever interfere with your school responsibilities Do you continue your regularor friendships? drinking behavior even though you know it causes problemsDo you ever drink with the intent and damages your reputation'?of getting drunk? Do you ever drink to help copeDo you experience frequent with negative emotions?hangovers'? Do you ever become moreDo you sometimes have difficulty aggressive or depressedremembering what you said or after drinking'?did when you were drinking'? If your parents knew how muchHave you ever done anything you were drinking, would theywhen drinking that you think it was a problem'?wouldn't do otherwise? Professional staff provide conndential screenings and consultations concerning use of alcohol and other drugs. Services are available to current Notre Dame students. To make an appointment. contact Office of Alcohol &Drug Education 311 la Fortune Student Center National AlcoholUniversity of Notre Dame phone: (2f9) 631-7970 Screening Dayhtrp://www.nd.edu/~aldrug/  


-----------------·--· -----··-·----­
Thursday, March 5, 2001 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
E_'A_ST-'ASI~L~§'U_'A_(j'ES & LIT~R5l_Tril'R:ES 205 O 's:J-L_:;zt_~ § 2-l.:ArPSsy :J-{5Zl.£L 63:1.-8873 Chinese Language Courses lapanese Language Courses Courses in English FALL 2001 FALL2QDZ fALL2001 The LLl!A courses listed use materials in English translation and require no prior backgt0und in Asian studies. 4696 EALC 102. Bei;inning Chinese ll Prof. Chengxu Yin 4697 EAL! 102. BeJinoiug fapan,;se II 46911 LLEA 368. Self and Soch:t,y in Mpdem kpanc:,c Fiction Prof. Se!suko Shiga MWF 12:50-1:40 Crosslist ENGL 315A, GSC 368 MWF 11:45-12:35 Prof. Michael Brownstein EAU 11101-02 Fixst•YearJap;,near2953 EALC 111. first-Year Chlnm I TH 2:00-3:15 Prof. Noriko HanabusaProf. Liangyan G@ MWF 11:45-12:35 2951 S"1:tjon Qt MWF9:35-10:25 and IH 11:00-11:50 4'101 u.Bi\ 364, Popular Belleioo and the Practice of Philosophy io China TH 11:00-11:50 2950 Section 02 MWF 10-40-11:30 and Tii 11:00-11:50 Cros5ttst: ANTH 364, PHIL 271A, 2718, 271C, THEO 347 Prof. Lionel Jensen 1155 EAU 2u. Second-Year Japanese I TH 11:00-12:15 Prof. Setsuko Shiga 2252 EALC :211. Second-Year Chinese I MWJI 10:40-11:30Prof. Chengxu Yin 4706 LLEA 386. Chinese Pop Soop: GJobal/LocalTH 11:00-11:50MWF 11:45-12:35 Prof. Margaret Wan ra 12:30-1:20 MWF 12:50-1;40 2249 EAL[ :m.Ibird-Ye;u: Japanese [Prof. Noriko HanabUBa1275 EALC311.Third-YcarChjneseI MWF 11:45-12:35Prof. Chengxu Yin MWF 1:55-2:45 2948 EA(J 4ll. Fourth•l'.far Ia~I 3410 EACt 411. Fourth-Year Chinese.I Prof. Setsuko Shiga Prof. MArgaret Wan MWF 1:55-2:45 MWF'l:55-2:45 0111 fAtr 498. SRecial Studic:. ProF. Lil\ Selden TBA. This one is easy to understand. You need an East Asian Language for this one. £ <. ~ 11) j\ 17 ,k­t () ~'"' t:. ~-t.J~,;T;;•'f!:.f)t 't> ., -c·i tii-tt •= a, "JIE.~-'l> If d';j"'" .!~;t~ MISSION STATEMENT FOR EASTASIAN LANGUAGES & LITERATURES The peoples of East Asia comprise one The Department of East Asian Languages quarter of the world's population and and Literatures provides the resources and account for a similar proportion of the instruction necessary for success in all of world's production and consumption. This these fields. The department is dedicated fact, along with the contemporary fusion of to providing rigorous language training in Asia and the West politically and Chinese and Japanese as well as courses in economically makes knowledge of the English on Chinese and Japanesediverse languages and cultures of.East Asia philosophy, religion, literature and culture. vital to an understanding of our global Complimentary courses in other discipH:nescommunity a;id indispensable for the are listed in the Undergraduate Bulletinpreparation of careers in the Pacific Rim under departments such as history, focusing on business, public policy, philosophy, theology, government, literatures, and the arts. economics and anthropology. www.nd.edu/~eall  

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, April 5, 200 I 
FROZEN FOUR 
BC, Michigan to battle in tourney 
Associat<Cd Pre•• 
ALBANY, N.Y. 

Scott Clcmmensen carries a bigger burden than the heavy pads strapped to his legs. The big Boston College goalie is playing in his fourth straight Frozen Four, and has yet to skate off with a champi­onship. 
His last chance at college hockey's ultimate prize begins Thursday night when the Eagles (31-8-2} of Ilockey East meet Michigan (27-12-5) of tho Central Collegiate Hockey Association. 
"To lose would be disap­pointing, obviously," said Clemmensen. who has 28 
in his last six games. "Hopefully, you'll get some lucky bounces, which we were kind of lacking the past couple of seasons. Hopefully, persis­tence will pay off this year. The lirst time we fail. we just can't give up. 
"It's kind of like riding a bike. You keep trying and give yourself as many chances to win this thing as you can. We've played well in the past and we've played well again this year. ft's only a matter of time before we break through." 
The memory of that game three years ago might have faded just a bit but not com­pletely. How could it? 
Michigan, 
making its
"We've played well in 

wins and a 
2 0 t h 

.912 save per­the past ... it's only a appear­centage this 
matter oftime before ance in 

season. "But 
college
we break through." 

we don't have hockey's to think about 
final four,

that right 
Scott Clemmensen has seven 

now." 
seniors
Boston College goalie

There's plen­
w h o ty Lo ponder in dressed 
the recent that night and BC has eight. 
past, though. Clemmensen's 
The sameness of it all is 

freshman year ended with an almost eerie. 
overtime loss to the 
"There are a lot of similari­Wolverines in the national ties," said Josh Langfeld, who championship game -in beat Clemmensen for the title­Boston, no less. winning goal in 1998. "We 
"All you can do is go out 
had a great goaltender. We there and play your best. You 
had good senior leadership.can't do much more than We had a few bumps alongthat," said Clemmensen, who 
the way that year and we've has allowed just seven goals had a few bumps along the 
way this year. We just 
brought it together at the 
right time." 
Defending champion North Dakota (28-7-9) of the Western Collegiate Hockey Association hopes to bring it all together at the right time for the second straight year. The Fighting Sioux. who play top-ranked Michigan State (33-4-4) in the other semifi­nal. are trying to become the first team to repeat as cham­pion since Boston University accomplished the feat in 1971-72. 
"That's a good situation to be in." said Jeff Panzer. who leads the Fighting Sioux in scoring with 26 goals and 55 assists. "There's been a lot of emphasis on that. We're happy to be here and have a chance to do it. Our big thing is to win the game on Thursday and play our best game of the season. If we win, we've got a chance. If' not, we're all done." 
The Spartans. regular-sea­son and playoff champions of the CCHA. haven't won the championship in 15 years. Coach Ron Mason knows that winning feeling and wants to share it with his players. 
''I've experienced the joy of a national title. I'd like to see this team have that opportuni­ty," Mason said. "We've been the most consistent team this year in college hockey. It would be nice to have the icing on the cake." 

NCAA BASKETBALL 
Peterson replaces Green for Volunteers, receives 5 Year deal 
Associated Press 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. 

Buzz Pnterson was introduced Wednesday as the new basket­
ball coach at Tennessee, replacing Jerry Green, who was 
forced out after four 20-win seasons. 
"There arc a lot of butterflies in my stomach right now, but there is a lot of excitement," Peterson told a news conference at Tennessee's basketball arena. 
The former Tulsa coach and North 
Carolina native said he felt like he was com­
ing home. He agreed to a five-year contract 
worth about $700,000 annually. 
Athletic director Doug Dickey said Peterson, the son of a Tennessee graduate, is a good fit for the Vols. a man of "personal integrity," who knows the Southeastern Conference. 
Peterson comes to Tennessee after one year at Tulsa, where he had a 26-11 record and won the NIT championship last Thursday. 
Green resigned March 20 after leading the Volunteers to four straight NCAA appearances. Tennessee officials had to wait 10 days for Tulsa to finish its season before formally talking to Peterson last week. 
Peterson will be the Vols' 17th coach and fourth hired since 1989. The main attraction for Peterson was a chance to be closer to home and his roots. 
"I never would have dreamed that something like this in Tennessee would pop open," he said Tuesday after resigning at Tulsa. 
Aside from the last nine months in Oklahoma. he has spent his playing and coaching career in North Carolina and Tennessee. In 1981, the Asheville, N.C., native beat Michael Jordan as the top high school player in the slate. 



S-U-Iv:l:Iv:l:ER. SESSI~:N" I:N" CI-II~_A., 2.001 
"City o:£ Eterr1a.l Sprir1g" 

I£ you. cou.lcl -visit o:n.ly o:n.e prov-i:n.ce i.r1. Ch.i:n.a, th.is wou.lcl be it:. 
Located i:n. the heart or Yu.:n.:n.a:n. Prov-i:n.ce, Ku.ri.mi:n.g is k.:n.ow:n. thro-u.ghou.t Ch.i:n.a as the "City 0£ Eter:n.al Sprirl.g-" 
i<:-...:n.mi:n.g, Yunnan, People's .R.epaiblic oC China J-...ne 18 -Augaist: 2, 2001 

.Professor Susor, .BLu1r2, A,-,L,zropofoc.J7, ./VoLre .Dal7'Ze Professor Lior,eL .Ter,ser,, .EasL Asian La1zguages a1zd LiLeraLures, ./VoLre .Dal7'Ze 
LOCATION , 

The lovely city of Kunming is capital of' t:he province of Yunnan, with a population of 4 or 5 
million. Kunming is known as the ""Spring City" because of its temperate climate-It: is at the 
beginning of' the Burma Road that connects China via Burma to India_ The fascinating 
province of Yunnan is both part: of China and in many ways pa.rt of southeast: Asia_ It has 24 
ethnic minorities, known for their unique cultures. 
ACADEl'Vt:IC: PR.C>~R.AIVI: 

This program has two components, a language component and an ethnographic/cultural 
component_ Students must enroll in both (unless they are native speakers of Chinese)_ By 
the end of' the program, students will have gained a. sense of how lif'e works in a Chinese city, 
as well as having mastered some of' the rudiments of' Mandarin Chinese-
No prior knowledge of" t:he C:hi:n.ese language is :reqaiirccl­

I-Language component: 5 credits of Chinese language study_ Each student will be tested and placed in the appropriate level; students with no previous Chinese language training will be placed in the beginning class (EALC 1 01 a, "Beginning Chinese Taught in Kunming"') 
2-Ethnographic / Cult:ural component: 3-credit course, '"The Everyday in China" 
(enroll as ANTH 356 / LLEA 382 

The f'ocus of our activities will be to connect: observations with more academic knowledge. In addition to lectures, discussions, and reading assignments, students will undertake ethnographic projects-We will also take many side-trips to sites within and near the city of' Kunming. These may include a visit to the Minority Village, West Mountain, Stone Forest. as well as t:.o Kunming's many parks, religious institutions, schools, farms, factories, hospitals, and markets. A longer trip to the breathtaking cities of Dali and Lijiang will be included. 
Two half-day meetings at Notre Dame in April and May will provide background f'or the study oF contemporary China-in the country itself_ 
AC:COlVIIVIO DATIONS 

All students will be housed in the dormitory for f"oreign students at Yunnan University_ Students may either share a room or have their own room_ Accommodations are adequate, including private western-style bathrooms. but are not luxurious. Nearby restaurants and snack shops, as well as the student canteen at Yunnan University, can provide meals at an extremely affordable price. 
COSTS 

Approximately $3117 plus internat;onal transportation (approximately S1 500) and incidentals. This includes Notre Dame tuition, program costs, Hong Kong housing, food, and t:ransportation, Yunnan tuition. housing, excursions, and food 
Application deadline: April 10 

For further information, contact Joan Rhoads, rhoads.2.@nd.edu or Z19-631-8873 
Application and further information available on the website_ www.nd.edu/-eall/trip-html 
East Asiar1 Language & Literatures 

Thursday, April 5, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
THE MASTERS 
Woods overwhelming favorite to secure second title 
Associated Press 
AUGUSTA, Ga. 

One bad swing. One gust out of Amen Corner. 
Jusl like that, Tiger Woods' chance of winning the Grand Slam began to slip away. 

Woods

He surren­
dcred five shots to par in two holes, signed for 75 in the first round and never caught up in The Masters. 
That was last year. 
It was a time when Woods was so dominant that he had won or finished second in 10 of 11 PGA Tour eventc; when he arrived at Augusta National. And it was a time when everyone, including Woods, assumed the Grand Slam meant winning all four major championships in the same year, starting with The Masters. 
The· circumstances will be similar when the 65th Masters begins Thursday. 
Woods is the overwhelming favorite, especially after winning his last two tournaments at Bay Hill and The Players Championship. 
A Grand Slam is at stake, even if the definition is subject to debate. 
Woods is the reigning champi­on in the U.S. Open, British Open and PGA Championship, 

two teams pelform improv based on audience suggestions. complete with · referees, penalties, and points 

nyc comedian, aregular at caroline's, stand up ny, and the comic strip. 

D  S  T  N  O  U  S  H  E  D  
L  E  C  T  u  R  E  
s  _Ii  E  s  

Anthony F. Earley Jr. 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, DTE Energy Co. 
~~-it:1.~~..'.';;;·.:_~:;tt\_~; , , _ ., . 

Electricity: Powering our Economy, Protec · -ur~Environment,
_,,, > . • ' • • 

Linking our World _,.J~ , 1 . -· t :: '.t: 
Friday, April 6 -12:50 to 1:40 p.m. in the_DeB,1~11o~Au;ltop6rnl100,j, 101 
. . ;-' 
and now has a chance to become the first player in histo­ry to hold the trophies of all four professional majors at the same time. 
"If Tiger Woods wins this tour­nament, it will be the greatest achievement in modern-day golf," Augusta chairman Hootie Johnson proclaimed Wednesday on the final day of practice. 
One other thing will never change. 
No matter how talented Woods is, no matter how much control he has of his game or how much intimidation his name on a leaderboard is worth, his greatest challenge will come from the course. 
Augusta National always has the final word. 
The humps and bumps on the most severe greens in champi-· onship golf can turn a seemingly good shot into a disaster. The wind blows as it pleases. It requires nothing short of preci­sion, from the opening tee shot to the uphill climb at the 18th. 
"That's one of the reasons why we love to play, that chal­lenge of it," Woods said. "You know what you need to do, and sometimes it's just tough doing it." 
It all starts to unfold Thursday at a course that has been soft­ened by two days of light rain. Sam Snead and Byron Nelson will hit their ceremonial tee shots at 8 a.m. to kick off one of the most anticipated tourna­ments ever. 

"The bigger the tournament, the more excited all of us are about playing," Woods said. 
The contenders are numerous. 
Defending champion Vijay Singh has finished no worse than fourth in his last six tour• naments and never has been so confident about the treacherous, contoured greens. 
'Tm not going to lay down this week," said Singh, trying to join Jack Nicklaus and Nick Faldo as the only repeat Masters champi­ons. 
Phil Mickelson has won five times over the past 14 months, twice at Woods' expense. Davis Love III had a Tiger-like come­back to win at Pebble Beach, then played in the final group Sund<;1,y in his next three tourna­ments. 
"When you get out there and get excited about The Masters, you seem to do everything a lit­tle bit better," Love said. 
The challenge might come from 46-year-old Greg Norman, who is keenly aware that Nicklaus was 46 when he won The Masters -although Nicklaus already had won five of them and the Shark will have to block out the memory of five close calls. 
Still, all the attention is on Woods. 
"When he plays at his best, I don't think there is anybody that can challenge him when he is in top form," said Darren Clarke. "But he's not always in top form." 
J!ewi6 Cru6h Schedule o/Cvenl6 ... 
Crush BBQ., tonight 5:30 pm Dinner, OJ, limbo prelims for Lewis girls and invited guests 
Crush Dance Friday, April 6 Doors Open 8:30-10:30 Luau Attire Appropriate Student 10 Required 
Lewis Crosfi...'By Invitation On[y 

MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Four-day cocaine bender lands Strawberry in court 
As•oda1cd Press 
TAMPA, Fla. 

Darryl Strawberry spent the four days he was missing doing cocaine with a female friend and armed men who took his jewelry and aban­doned him in a motel room, the former baseball star told his probation officer Tuesday. 
In a report to the judge who will decide if Strawberry will go to prison, Florida probation officials said Strawberry tested positive for cocaine use and violated the terms of his house arrest in his four-day foray. 
The report, released late Tuesday. came as Strawberry continued to be held in a psychi­atric ward at St. Joseph's Hospital while doctors evaluate him. 
Under arrest for violating his probation. he will be sent to the Hillsborough County Jail and held without bail once doctors declare him mentally stable. 
The probation report is the first official accounting of Strawberry's Thursday night disappearance from the drug treatment center where he was serving two year's house arrest. 
Strawberry told his probation 

officer that he was picked up at 
the center by a woman from an 
Alcoholics Anonymous program 
named Beverly, who was sup­
posed to take him to the meet­
ing. 
" ... Instead she began smoking 
crack cocaine and he couldn't 
resist the temptation," probation 
officer Shelley Tomlinson wrote 
in her report. "He said she took 
him to a nearby motel where 
there were a total of five men 
who had guns and took his jew­
elry." 
Strawberry said they contin­ued to use cocaine until Friday, when the men -who are not identified -decided it was time to leave. The men took Strawberry with them as they drove around town und bought more drugs, the report said. The men later drove to a motel in Orlando, leaving Strawberry there when they eventually left. 
Joe Ficarrotta. Strawberry's attorney. was not immediately available for comment on the probation report. Earlier in the day, Ficarrotta said he was relieved that Strawberry was located. 
Neither the Hillsborough County Sheriff's Office nor Strawberry's attorney know how long Strawberry will be at St. Joseph's Hospital, where he is undergoing a mental health evaluation before being sent to jail. 
"It's a tough position for the judge to be in," Ficarrotta said. "Whether he relapses one time or 10 times, it's the same thing. 
It's whether you fight drug 
addiction by putting people in 
prison or do the right thing and 
get them the medical treatment 
they need." 
Meanwhile. Strawberry's friends rallied around the trou­bled man, whose latest disap­pearance will send him back to jail and possibly to state prison. 
In addition to his legal trou­bles. Strawberry also is under­going an aggressive. experimen­tal treatment for colon cancer. 
"He wants to get himself clean, he wants to go on and live a normal life like everyone else," said Mark Kennedy. who once shared an apartment with Strawberry at the Tampa drug treatment center where the for­mer slugger was serving two years house arrest. 
"If he's told me once. he's told me 50 times: 'J wish l wasn't whq I am,'" Kennedy said. "He says he wishes he was a regular guy." 
Strawberry disappeared from Health Care Connection, where he was serving two years of house arrest on drug possession and solicitation of prostitution charges. 
He also was on probation for a misdemeanor charge of leaving the scene of an accident stem­ming from a September collision caused when he was driving under the influence of pain killers. 
Strawberry resurfaced Monday when two friends went to Daytona Beach to get him and check him into the hospital. 

One of those associates, Ray consultant. said he visited Negron, a Cleveland Indians Strawberry Tuesday. 
TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
The Students' 1 't choice in Off-Campus Housing 
DON,T WAIT APPLY TODAY!!!! 
P: 272-8124 
READY FOR A CHANGE? 
LOOKING FOR UFE EXPERIENCE? 
ItrHE CASA DE ESPERANZA 1-YEAR INTERNSHIP! I 
CASA DE ESPERANZA (The House of Hope) cares for abused. neglected and HIV+ children. 
YOU CAN HELP. 
Phone: (713) 529-0639 Fu: (713) 529-9179 e-mail: volstaff@casahope.org Website: www.casabope.org 

Why not bike a year and help us change lives? 
Roo1TVBoard/ 5500 per month Stipend/Health lnsur:mce/Ed Award 
Casa de Esperanza P 0. Box 66581 Houston, TX 77266-6581 
For more information about our fnternship Progr:im contact Susan Molitor at (713) 529-0639 Wednesday, April 4, 2001 


The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
Bookstore 
continued from page 28 
er. Joey, joined the team this year, along with 2000 Bengal Bouts champion Rob Joyce. 
"Todd Titus is a pretty hard worker inside," Joyce said. "lfhc and B.J. can work the inside-outside game, that's going to be a pretty good team." 
Majesties, a team that made it to the semifinals in 2000, is ranked fourth after losing Ryan to "Five Reasons Your Girl Left You." The 2001 Majesties squad features Corey Hartmann, Justin Heberle, Derek Gautier, Matt Wolbeck and newcomer Sean McCarthy. 
Starting with a fifth seed is "Please call us Hoscphus," a team that surprised many by making it to the final 16 a year ago with an all-freshman roster. 
Brian Ostick, Jason Sullivan, Andy Bozzelli, Pat O'Brien and Evan Maher arc all back this year, but with a year of Bookstore experience behind them. All but O'Brien live in 

The eighth-ranked team. "Free Ballers," is a group of Keenan guys Steve Byrnes, Grant Gholson, D.J. Lipke, Jon Gentine and former Notre Dame basket­ball walk-on Tony Kearney. 
Five freshmen highlight the No. 9 "Diaper Dandies," but their youth is balanced out by athleticism. Abe Elam, Carlyle Holiday and Jerome Collins all hail from the football team, and are joined by Joe Bollini and Patrick Nally. 
"Basketball shape and football shape arc two different things," Elam said. 
Outside the top 10 are a few well-known basketball names. Senior Irish point guard Martin Ingelsby will play for No. 19 "If we only had Warren", along with Mike Kane, Mike Hogan. Trace Hendrix and Dahx Marrs; while senior center Hans Rasmussen will play for No. 17 "Check Your Head." 
Play begins Friday in the 2001 Bookstore Basketball tourney, which featu.res 580 teams and will run through April 29. 

2001 Arts & Letters Departmental Follow-up Sessions 

As a follow-up to the Majors & Programs Fair, the departments listed below are holding informational meetings for prospective majors. If you are thinking of majoring in ~ne of these departments, please make every effort to attend. 
e 
February2 
February 9 
Institute) "Impact of Globalizationn 

February 16 Joe McCarthy (Researcher, Accenture -Ctr. for Strategic Technology) "Awareness and Collaboration in the Workplace of the Future" 

Alumni and played interhall bas­ketball together. 
"I think that's where a lot of our chemistry comes from," Ostick said. "We're all best friends, too. The fact that we've played together so much over 
· the past two years translates into how we play on the court." Taking the sixth seed into the tourney are the "Nylon stro­
kers," which features football player Courtney Watson. 
No. 7 "Mourning Wood" returns three players -Brett Gansen, Chris Bosco and Matt Panzer -from a squad that advanced to the top 16 a year ago. New to the team this year is extra athleticism, with football player Arnaz Battle and former Notre Dame basketball walk-on Tom Krizmanich Jommg "Mourning Wood." Gansen was also a Division Ill basketball prospect in high school. 
"Picking up Arnaz and Tom really helped out," Gansen said. "Probably our strengths are we've got some real good shoot­ers on the team." 

Monday, April 2 
CAPP 
Bookstore Basketball 2001
6:00 -7:00 DeBartolo. Room 209 

Top 32 Rankings 
ERASMUS BOOKS
-Commerce and Bevond 
-Used Books bought and sold -25 Categories of Books -25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 
Lecture Series 
-Out-of-Print search service -Appraisals large and small 
http://wwwnd.edu/%7Ekmatta/mgt648/speokers I m 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne
Khalil Matta (Director, MIS Program, University of Notre Dame) 
South Bend, IN 46617 "Overview of the Lecture Series" 
(219) 232-8444 
Allen Hammond (CIO and Senior Scientist, World Resources 

17,CheckYourHead 
18. Porn Stars 

19. 
If We Only Had Warren 

20. 
The Torch 

21. 
Verzatility 



22. 
Ballers Comin' Through 

23. 
Sexual Frustration VI 

24. 
Ill-Tempered Sea Bass 

25. 
Rucker Park All-Stars 


26. Bacardi.com 

27. The Benchwarmers 
28. 
Rival Pipe 

29. Krunct 

30. 
TCB Band 



31. Narnian Thugs 
32. Burned Out Porn Stars 
Wednesday, April 4 
Hesburgh Concentrators 
7:00 p.m. O'Shaughnessy, Room 339 

Thursday, April 5: 
Sociology Pizza Party 4:00 -5:30 PM 824 Flanner Hall 
1. 
5 Reasons Your Girl Left You 

2. 
Versatility 

3. 
ND Today.com 

4. 
Majesties 

5. 
Please Call Us Bosephus 

6. 
Nylon Strokers 

7. 
Mourning Wood 

8. 
Free Ballers 

9. 
Project Mayhem 

10. 
Diaper Dandies 

11. 
Candy Rain 

12. 
Nunc Dimittis 

13. 
Stategery 

14. 
The Linebacker Lounge 

15. 
Five Degree Guarantee 


16. Raw Dog 



page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, April 5, 2001 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Saint Mary's thrashes Albion College with singles wins 

••A~-4~~•••••••~•••••••••••4-•Aal 
CAMPUS VIEW APPARTMENTS  t  
irf¢ ¢  1801 IRISH WAY -SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 -(219) 272 -1441  * $$!  
<  Walking Distance to Campus!  $  
:  LOOKING FORA "NEW VIEW"NEXT FALL?  :  
<It  $  
~*­ -===========-=--=--=--=--=------=----_-_-_-_--,-~'$  

: CNvlPLS VIEW OffERS: : -Lurqe, spacious oparlrnenls 4 -Lmiled Renovated Ki!cliens : -Swimming Pool, Tennis and Baskelb:Jll Courls J't -L()CATION! A shorl walk lo a GrocertJ Store, 
C
¢ Oruq Store, Reslouronls, and CAMPUS! : -Aflordable Pricing 
~ 
: Regisler lo win a free TV will, 12 month lease! ¢
' 
~ 
: 
~ 
: 
t 
* ~ 
mi 
: 
i 
: t 
' ~ 
~ 

~
~••••••••~a•••••a••••••••••••••• 
INDIANA UNIVERSITY 
SoUTHBEND 
CONTINUING EDUCATION 
Is the GRE or GMAT in your future? 
Be better prepared for the GRE or GMAT with an exam review class 
from IUSB Continuing Education. Here's what makes our programs 
stand out ~rom the competition: 
Value: Our exam reviews are priced hundreds of dollars less than other test prep programs. 
Proven strategies for attacking even the most difficult questions. 
Live. in-person instruction. We do not use videotaped presentations or rely on remote broadcasts. 
An experienced instructor with up-to-date knowledge of the latest revisions in the tests, to provide you with tips you may not find m a bool.-or c:il;'le. 
In-class practice sessions with actual exam questions. 
Extensive take-home materials for additional review and practice. 
GRE Review: Mondays and Wednesdays, April 11-May 23, 
6-10 p.m. $465. 
GMAT Review: Wednesdays, April 11-May 16, 6-10 p.rn. 
$399. 
All classes meet on the i:idiana University South Bend campus, 
1700 Mishawaka Avenue. Course fees include all materials. 
To register or for more information, call lUSB Continuing Education at 237-4261. Or visit www.iusb.edu/-cted. 
By JENNIFER BARTALINO 
Spores Writer 
By the end of the night Wednesday, the Belles tennis team finally let out a long-overdue sigh of relief as their conference opponents. Albion College, finally succumbed to the pressure of yet another high intensity match. 
"This is definitely a huge win for the Belles," said sophomore Elisa Ryan of the team's 6-3 victory. 
Although Albion nabbed the No.1 and No.2 singles spots, as well as the No. I doubles, the Belles held onto Nos. 3-6 singles and Nos. 2 and 3 doubles to claim the victory. 
The closeness and intense pressure that prevailed at last night's match reminded head coach Dee Stevenson of last Wednesday's victory over Valparaiso. 
"It all came down to our depth being the key factor," Stevenson said. 
Stevenson also believed that fresh­man Jeannie Knish's 5-7, 6-1, 6-2 win in the No. 3 singles spot and a victory in the No. 2 doubles spot, were crucial. 

"(Those two victories) really took a lot of pressure off our doubles," Stevenson said. 
Knish and her doubles partner Kaitlin Cutler, also a freshman. agreed that the closeness of the match they played was just what they needed at this point in the sea­son. 
"It was really an eyesopening match for us that reminds us how much we need to stay on our toes," Cutler said. 
The team agreed that Wednesday's match proved that every point mat­ters. 
"We are strong all-around. from the top seed to the bottom." sopho­more Elisa Ryan said. "There are no weak links in our team." 
Before losing to Saint Mary's, Albion College had previously been undefeated. The Belles now hold a record of 8-0. 
Saint Mary's hits the court again Friday afternoon, at Hope College. Its next home game will be against the University of Chicago, this Saturday at 1 p.m. 
RETIREMENT INSURANCE MUTUAL FUNDS TRUST SERVICES, TUITION FINANCIN6 
Why is TIAA-CREF the #1 choice nationwide? 
The TIAA-CREF 
Advantage. 
Year in and year out, employees at education and research institutions have turned to TIAA-CREF And for good reasons: 
• 
Easy diversification among a range of expertly managed funds 

• 
A solid history of performance and exceptional personal service 

• 
A strong commitment to low expenses 

• 
Plus, a full range of flexible retirement income options 


For decades, TIAA-CREF has helped professors and staff at over 10,000 campuses across the country invest for­and enjoy-successful retirements. 
Choosing your retirement plan provider is simple. Go with the leader: TIAA-CREF 
Callusfo9 
. afree 
mformation 
package 

THE TIAA-CREF ADVANTAGE 
I I Investment Expertise 
Low Expenses 

Customized Payment Options Expert Guidance 
. 
~ 
Ensuring the future 

1. 8 0 0. 8 4 2. 2 7 7 6 
for those who shape it.'M

~ I www.tiaa-cref.org 
For more com e information on our securities products, call 1.800.84Z.2733, ext. 5509, for prospectuses. Read them carefully before you ,nvest • TIAA· ,~EF Individual and Institutional Services. Inc. and Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc. distribute securities products, 
• Teachers Insurance and Annu1t1 Association (TIAA), New York, NY and TIAA-CREf Life Insurance Co., New York, NY issue insurance and annuities • TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services. • Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are not bank guaranteed.© 2001 Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association-College Retirement Equities Fund, New York, NY 01/02 

Thursday, April 5, 200 l The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
Banquet 
continued from page 28 
leading the team to a 20-10 overall record in his first year, good enough to achieve the No. 1 goal or an NCAA Tournament bid. The Irish went 11­5 in the Big East, besting .500 for the first time since they joined the league. 
"There's a handful of institutions in the country -not many -that make a coach better, and this is one of them." Brey said. 
The new Irish coach awarded NCAA Tournament watches to the team, noting that 61 teams (with the 64-team tourney pool expanded to 
65) receive the watches. He pointed out that the other four tourney qual­ifiers, the ones that make it to the Final Four, earn rings. 
Brey plans to stick around as the Irish work towards earning rings and make sure there won't be four coaches in four seasons. 
''I guarantee I'll be standing here next spring," he said. 
Doherty's departure made room for Ingelsby's return to the starting lineup. The 6-foot senior started throughout his first two seasons beneath head coach John Macleod, before losing that spot to Jimmy Dillon when Doherty came on board. 
Ingelsby, asked to give senior remarks, thanked his parents and Coach MacLeod before acknowledg­ing a couple more distant benefac­tors. 
"I also want to thank a couple guys who couldn't be here tonight ­Roy Williams, Larry Brown, Eddie Fogler -a couple of guys who made this year so enjoyable," Ingelsby said, mentioning several candidates who were ahe~d of Doherty in line for the North Carolina coaching job. 
Ingelsby, who won the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley Rockne-Student Award with a 3.405 CPA last semester in marketing, went on to thank Brey and his teammates and pledge a return to Notre Dame. 
"Wherever I am next year, I'll be sure to be rooting -for you guys," lngelsby said. "Hopefully I'll be back here someday." 
As this year's starting point guard, Ingelsby ranked among the top 10 nationally in assists, posting the best assist-to-turnover ratio in the Big East at 3.16. He averaged 8.2 points and 6.4 assists for the Irish. 
Ingelsby now heads to the Port Smith camp, a camp for NBA and other professional league prospects. If playing doesn't work out, he plans to coach, with Notre Dame a goal in his future. 
"One day, my goal is to get him back here on our coaching staff," Brev said. "and sooner rather than later. 
Murphy won the Notre Dame National Monogram Club MVP Award after becoming the fourth player in Big East history to win multiple. Player of the Year awards. He also became the only Notre Dame men's basketball .player besides Adrian Dantley to be a two­time consensus All-American selec­tion. 
"I certainly believe his drive and his will drove us back to the NCM Tournament," Brey said. 
The 6-fogt-11 power forward is debating whether to head to the NBA or remain in school for his senior year. 
Senior reserve Hans Rasmussen was also honored. 
Rasmussen came to Notre Dame on scholarship as a freshman, left Notre Dame for the University of Portland and returned to Notre Dame to complete his career. 

.._
"I want to thank Coach Brey and his staff for allowing me to finish the dream that I started," Rasmussen said. 



1•­
------p-ag-e-26-......-------._..--•·,--------~---w-----T,-'he-0~~-'Se..rv..---er~. SPORTS 
Thursday, April 5, 2001 

I-I 
Baseball 

I continued from page 28 
left fielder Kris Billmaier. 
The 1-2-3 combination of Stanley, Sollmann and Porzel provided a real catalyst for the Irish offense, batting six for 12 collectively and scoring five runs. 
'Tuesday I hit the ball in the air too much. and that does nothing for our learn," Stanley said_ "I need to put the ball on the ground so I can get on base and score for us. That is what Steve [Sollmann] and I tried to do tonight_ With the top of our lineup, we have the ability to generate a lot of runs." 


Do you have a right to access porn at school? The ND-ACLU proudly presents: Internet Filtering in Public School & Libraries: A Panel Discussion TONIGHT! Thursday, April 5 Law School Lounge 4-6 With panelists Chris Hansen (ACLU), Jack Samad (National Coalition for the protection of children and families), and Doug Archer (American Library Association). Moderated by the law school's very own professor Tricia Bellia! Refreshments served afterwards.  
Bruno's Piua All-you-can-eat Buffet (Includes Drink) *Pizza *Pasta $5.99 *Salad *Other Italian Dishes *Parties Welcome Every Thursday at 5 2610 Prairie Avenue 288-3320  

Notre Dame blew the game open in the seventh inning, scoring four runs oIT of a lcadoff walk by freshman Soran Leahy and three hits by Stanley. Sollmann, and Porzcl. 
The Irish are anxious to begin this weekend's series against Big East rival Rutgers, who won both the regular season and tournament titles last year. 
"It's going to be a huge series," said an cager Stanley. "Our learns are a lot alike. They have great pitching. and we have great pitching. They have great hitters, and we have great hitters. We are expecting a tough matchup, be we arc definite­ly ready for them." 




Prepare Yo45?elf 



~Qr

Saturday ~QrApril 6th~Qr 

a 

Thursday, April 5, 2001 The Observer . TODAY page 27 

HOROSCOPE 
THURSDAY, APRIL 5, 2001 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Gregory Peck, Colin Powell, Spencer Tracy, Bette Davis, Paula Cole, Max Gail 
Happy Birthday: Don't let emotional matters cloud your vision this year. You have to deal with everything promptly to keep the coast clear for any opportunity that comes your way. H you can keep a clear head, you will know exactly what you have to do to get ahead. You will not miss a beat if you keep on your toes and prepare to make your move as soon as you get wind of any promising project. Your numbers: 1, 23, '2:1, 30, 41, 44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Don't let your emotions stand in the way of professional progress. Hold your temper when dealing with individuals who are critical or negative. You mustn't be daunt­ed by what others think. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Get out and socialize. Romantic connections can be made. You'll attract all sorts of individuals. Use discrimination if they want you to pay their way. 00000 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You're trying to do too many things for too many people. Step back and be realistic about your projects. You won't be able to please everyone. Your creative talent will be recognized. 00 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't let friends or relatives inter­fere in your love relationship. Make up your own mind. Ask your mate point-blank if you feel that he or she has lost interest or if you want to clear the air. 0000 
LEO (July 2.3-Aug. 22): Make your move. A higher-paying job offer should be considered even if it means making a residential move. You may like the people 
EUGENIA LAST 

you are working for, but money talks. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't back your mate into a cor· ner. He or she may not be ready to discuss existing problems. Be patient: Pushing will only cause him or her to back away or say things you'll both regret. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Help those less fortunate than you. You will feel great ifyou can do a friend a favor. Investments will pay off. Don't be afraid to take a bit of a chance. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You can ask for favors and get sound advice from close friends and relatives. Don't hesitate to entertain those who can provide you with valuable information and knowledge. 0000 
SAGilTARIUS (NO\t 22-Dec. 21): 
You won't be feeling up to par if you've been burning the candle at both ends. Take time to rejuve­nate. You may want to look into a career change that promises a higher income. 00 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
You need to put some spark back into your life. New friends, differ­ent types of entertainment and fit­ness programs should help you tum things around. You need to feel as ifyou're achieving. 00000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 

Finalize important details. Make changes to your personal papers that will bring you up to date and on top of your financial situation. Don't neglect overdue bills. 000 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
Your mate is not likely to under­standdour position. Don't beat aroun the bush; state your case and explain your intentions. You need time to make things better. Try not to take each other for granted.00 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 XXX 
5 Unnatural, in a 
way 10 Place tor some 
icons 14 Up-to-the-minute 15 Opponent for Ike 16 Brown-and­
white 17 What is more 18 What old 
enemies may do 19 Window-rattling 20 Start of a quip 22 • be in 
England .. ." 23 "Cheerio!" 24 Flop 26 A pop 27 Measures of 
some losses: Abbr. 
28 Gymnast's place 32 Big leagues 34 When things 
don't go right 36 Who "is alone" in a 1987 Sondheim title 37 Middle of the 
quip 40 Seed coverings 41 Volleys 42 Jack and the 
missus 44 Go back and 
forth (with) 45 Kind of mask 48 Book after 
Philemon: Abbr. 49 Soak (up) 51 Fifth-or sixth­
grader 53 Bumper_ 55 End of the quip 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

59 Take _ (rest) 60 Spanish 101 verb 61 "An Essay on 
Criticism" writer 62 Microwave 63 "Vent 64 Idle fe!low? 65 Hearty dinner 66 Colossus 67 Go on and on 
DOWN 
1·Swank 
2 Having a certain glow 3 Time releases 4 Alibi 5 One of Henry Vlll's six 6 Old music halls 
7 Sound before "Thanks, I needed that!" 
8Dog-_ 9 Chinatown 
offering 10 Singer Guthrie 11 Diminish 
dotted line 21 Bull sessions 25William_, 
who founded Ralston Purina 29 A lot of fluff 30 Hullabaloos 
31 Half of a 60's quartet 
33 Tittles 
34 Kans. neighbor 
35 Cry out 37 Monocled advertising figure 
38 Mechanical device that operates by compression 
39 Eggs 
40 Waste holders 
43 "Very well" 

45 Woman of la 52 Rain check casa 54 Shoot 46 Constrain 
56 Sportscaster's
47 Treehopper, e.g. 
tidbit 50 "lethal Weapon 
57 Author Janowitz
2t "... 3" and 
" ... 4" actor 58 Songbird 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
Birthday Baby: You won't miss a thing. You are attentive, caring and extremely obseIVant. You notice even the smallest of details and will always give your best effort in all that you do. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
CWOl Univer,;al Press Syndicate 


r 
L SC 
Britons Beat Down 


The Saint Mary's Tennis team 
,,. 
took down the Britons ofAlbion today at home 6-3, buoyed by No. r and 2 singles wins.
PORTS 
page 24 

O
THE page 28 BSERVER 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXX 
"Five Reasons" looks to tame concrete jungle 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Senior Staff Writer 
This year's top-ranked Bookstore Basketball team not only has "Five Reasons Your Girl Left You" on its roster; it's got five reasons you don't want to play this squad. 
"Five Reasons Your Girl Left You." also one of the
" 
top 10 names of the 2001 tournament, brings in four guys from teams that advanced to the final eight of last year's tourney. 
"It's all about the name," joked team captain Dan Heidy. "We can't play at all." 
Reidy, Irish Guardsman Dan Lustig and Kevin Muempfer, who provided the women's basketball team with practice competition this season. all came from a Franchise squad that lost in the quar­terfinals to Majesties a year ago. They add four­time Bengal Bouts champion Pete Ryan, who played for Majesties last year, to their squad, along with Irish Guard member Paul Raih, who spent last year abroad. 
"We've just got to move well and get good looks," said Reidy, the smallest guy on the squad at 6-foot­
1. "We've got a lot of guys who can score." 
This year's highest-ranked squad will play its first game Saturday against "/-jvantiem," but it's not taking its No. 1 ranking for granted, since this year's field looks wide open. 
The second-ranked "Versatility" team is anxious to prove its worth. 
"There are a lot of good teams in the top 10 in the brackets," said Versatility's John Hiltz. a former Notre Dame basketball walk-on. "I really think it's wide open within those top 10 teams. I really think the play on the court will be more important than the ratings." 
Joining Hiltz on Versatility. whose first game Saturday is against "The Nuggets," are Tim Greene, Joe Lillis, Jason Childress and Chris Dillon, who also practiced against the Notre Dame national champion women's basketball team. 
The third-ranked team, "NDToday.com," returns three players from its runner-up team last year, and is looking to move up, beginning with its open­ing round game on Saturday. 
B.J. Kloska, Mike Oesterle and Todd Titus all competed for NDToday.com a year ago, when it lost in the championships to Keyplay .com, four of whose players graduated. Kloska's younger broth-
see BOOKSTORE/page 23 

• 

JOHN DAILY/The Observer Jimmy Dillon of keyplay.com drives to the hoop against NDtoday.com In last year's tournament. Bookstore XXX's features top-seeded "Five Reasons Your Girl Left You." 

Thursday, April 5, 2001 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
-Banquet honors prograID 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Senior Staff Writer 
"Back Where We Belong" 
was the theme of' the annual 
Notre Dame Men's Basketball 
Banquet Wednesday night. 
Back in the NCAA 
Tournament for the first time 
Back to winning a Tournament game for the first time since 1989. 
Back to the national rank­ings. as the Irish finished the season 23rd in the final USA Today/ESPN coaches' poll. 
Back in tbe national lime­light, as Notre Dame won the Big East West Division title, its first league championship, hanging the banner at Wednesday's banquet. 
The Irish got back where they belong behind the work of a host of players and behind­the-scenes figures honored at the banquet. The most impor­tant keys to this year's success were first-year coach Mike Brey, senior captain and point guard Martin lngclsby and junior All-American Troy Murphy. 
"Long-term, you will see that we have the best coach in the country here at Notre Danrn," athletic director Kevin White said of Brey Wednesday. 
Brey joined the Irish on July 14 to replace Matt Doherty as the third men's basketball coach in as many seasons, 
see BANQUET/page 25 

BASEBALL 
Naumann wins, Irish bounce back to smack Flyers 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sports Writer 
After the Irish dropped a tough game to Ball State Tuesday night, head coach Paul Mainieri was noticeably displeased with his team's performance. His Irish looked out of sync most of the night, committing errors, missing signals and failing to execute on bunts and hit-and­runs. 
With all of these problems, 
Mainieri was even more eager to get back on the field Wednesday to correct 

t h e s e uncharac­teristic mis­takes -and that is just what the Irish did. Notre Dame returned to 
Malnierl its classic style of baseball in an impressive 8-1 
victory over the Dayton Flyers, scoring runs with perfect bunts and multiple hit-and-runs while holding opponents helpless with precise pitching and solid defense. 
"We executed all of the small things like the steals, bunts and hit-and-runs tonight," Mainieri said. ''We were able to get some key hits at the right times to bring some runs across the plate." 
With a stiff wind blowing in from center field, the power hit­

ting of both teams was neutral­ized. 
"This is the way we have to play under these conditions," Mainieri said. "The power hitting is definitely there in our lineup, but the wind is keeping balls inside of the park. To score you just have to move runners around the bases one at a time." 
Irish pitcher Mike Naumann fared well, picking up his first win on the season and improving his career mark to 9-1. Naumann looked strong, pitch­ing six innings and only allowing one run on five hits. 
The Irish set the tone for the game in the first inning when center fielder Stove Stanley and second baseman Steve Sollmann started o!T with consecutive sin­gles. After a walk by shortstop Alec Porzel loaded the bases, right fielder Brian Stavisky brought home Stanley with a sacrifice fly ball. Sollmann then scored on an RBI groundball by 
see BASEBALL/page 26 
Rowing
at Baylor • Men's Lacrosse 

~ at San Diego Crew Classic 
Friday, 9 p.m. vs. Denver 

... SPORTS 
~ 
Saturday, 4:30 p.m. ,_, Saturday 
ATA •

Baseball Softball Tennis 
• at Rutgers vs. Connecticut vs. University ofChicago
GLANCE· e-

Saturday, 12 noon Saturday, 12 noon Saturday, 1 p.m. 




