
Gruden says no to ND
PARTLY 
Friday

CLOUDY 
Oakland Raiders head coach Jon Gruden pulled his name from 
consideration for the Notre Dame head football coaching position. 
DECEMBER 7,

HIGH 47° 
Sports . page 24


LOW36° 
2001 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary-'s 
VOL XXXV NO. 64 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 




Students prepare to "Power Lunch" 
CNBC will feature club on live programming 
ByJASON McFARLEY News Editor 
Never mind the business lessons they picked up in finance class. 
Common sense told mem­bers of Notre Dame's Student Investment Fund not to turn down lunch with a major tele­vision network. And they didn't. 
The group will appear today in a live broadcast of the CNBC show, "Power Lunch," a daily program that probes financial news and trends. The show airs from noon to 2 
p.m. EST, and the students will appear about 1 :40 p.m. in the foyer of the Mendoza College of Business. 
The filming is open to the public. 
"Everyone's pretty enthused," said sophomore Keith Rowling, SIP senior fund manager. "It's national television, and it's going to give our club a lot of recogni­tion." 
Rowling and sophomores Kevin Ryan and Anthony Yanez are scheduled to speak a.bout the club and the stock market during the 10-to 15­minute on-camera appear­ance. They may also answer viewer questions and e-mails fielded by host Bill Griffeth via 
· satellite. . 
"My feeling is that they'll bring up Bob Davie," Rowling joked. 
leges around the country. most other investment clubs made up of MBA students and 
The students have known 

Producers chose the Notre that appear on "Power Lunch" faculty," said Ryan, who for about a month that they Dame group after SIF leaders because it is run by under­heads the SIF's financial hold­would appear on the show, this fall sent documentation of graduates, according to Ryan. ings sector. Paul Conway, a 
which this year has spotlight­
the group's efforts. "At a lot of other schools,
ed investment clubs at col-
The SIF is different from you find that the clubs are see LUNCH/page 6. 

DOE completes inspection 
By MYRA McGRIFF Saint Mary's Editor 
When Sarah Alter tried to 
report her rape to Saint Mary's 
campus security in 1999, she 
never thought her information 
would be lost among Saint 
Mary's crime statistics. 
However, Alter and the cam­pus watchdog organization Security on Campus claim it was. 
Based on that claim, Alter and SOC filed a complaint with the Department of Education alleg­ing that Saint Mary's was not in compliance with the Jeanne Clery Act. 

The Act states that Saint Mary's should be updating crime statistics annually, giving students timely warning about crimes that have occurred on campus and educating the cam­pus on sexual assault -all things Alter felt were lacking at Saint Mary's. 
The DOE sent a representative to investigate the claim this week, after letters exchanged between the department and Saint Marv's did not answer all the ques.tions the DOE had about Saint Mary's statistical reporting procedures. The results from the investigation will not be released for at least 30 days. 
But even though Alter is pleased the department con­ducted an on-site review of Saint Mary's, she feels it might be all too easy for the College to violate the Act once it is out of the department's watchful eye. 
see DOE/page 4 


Recession may affect families' ability to pay tuition 
Moore. year's recession. While this College's vice president of whose families have suffered
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER Within the next months, the may mean less money for Finance and Administration. hardships from the economic 
Assistant News Ediror 
University will finish the bud­departments at Notre Dame, Both schools are concerned recession or the aftermath of get for the next fiscal year, Saint Mary's policy prohibits that a continuing recession the Sept. 11 attacks. Saint 
The current economic reces­which begins July 1. 2002. the amount of could impact Mary's reported a similar sion has the potential to limit Before that budget is complet­money spent ..We're in the middle of the capacity trend. growth at Notre Dame and ed, officials are unsure of from the of parents to "It's a regular part of our
the budget process and

affect the ability of some to what planned growth will be endowment to pay tuition. business, when changing cir­pay Notre Dame and Saint contained. decrease from the knowledge that we're According cumstances are communicat­Mary's tuition, but both Both Notre Dame and Saint year to year. in an economic recession to Jim Malloy, ed by parents, to review finan­schools will not face budget Mary's reported a loss in their "There's a associate cial aid packages. If someone
is being taken into 

cuts like those reported at endowments, similar to all provision in director of contacts us with a problem,public universities. · institutions that invest. During our spending account.,, Financial Aid we don't say 'Sorry, apply"We're in the middle of the his annual address to the policy that at Notre next year.' We are attuned to budget process and the knowl­Faculty Senate last month, keeps funds Dame, his changes in circumstances and
Dennis Moore 

edge that we're in an econom­University President Father from the office has not economic changes. We have
University spokesman 

ic recession is being taken Edward Malloy said that there endowment at seen an our antenna up as much as into account ... there's no was a 60 percent return on the same level increase in ever," said Malloy. question that the economy the $3-billion endowment dur­from year to year ... while the number of financial aid Notre Dame currently meets puts serious constraints in ing the last fiscal year and that money will not go down, appeals from this time at last the demonstrated financial terms of [growth]," said about 17 percent of that it certainly will not go up," year. There have, however, University spokesman Dennis return was lost during this said Keith Dennis, the been appeals from parents ·see RECESSION/page 6 


page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Friday, December 7, 2001 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Looking for a good fit 
As I was walking to class the~ other day. an extremely precocious reporter stopped me. Somewhat in a hurry, I tried to dodge her. but this attempt was quickly foiled. She threw her­self in front of me and asked in a hurried voir.e, "Would 
Lori Lewalski
vou mind being interviewed 
f'or [insert anonymous chan­
nel here]?" 
Associate 
Now, I am not one who is 
Viewpoint
what people like to call 
Editor
"cam<~ra-friendly." In fact, 
ever since I can remember, 

I have avoided the camera -pictures, video 
cameras, you name it. 

I said to the woman, "Actually, I'm on my way 
to class," doing my best to look as busied and 
hurried as possible. 

This woman did not take the hint. "Oh, come 
on. You are all dressed up; it will only take two 
minutes ... " 

I did not want her to form the wrong impres­sion of Notre Dame students, so I agreed. It was . 5 p.m. and no one else was around to help her anyway. 
The second I agreed, she thrust the micro­
phone in my ,face and said, "We've been talking 
with school administrators and they say they're 
looking for someone who would be a good insti­
tutional flt for Notre Dame. \Vhat does that 
mean to vou?" 

Luckily, I've been glued to SportsCenter, so I 
am pretty in tune with the search for a new 
coach. I have my favorite picks, but they ·are 
dropping out of contention one by one. 
However, this question threw me for a loop. On 
the spot, my answer was mediocre. If I had 
more time then I could have probably spoken 
volumes on what an institutional fit would be 
for Notre Dame. 

What does Notre Dame need in a coach? This 
answer is simple: it needs exactly what it 
expects of its students. Recent editorials by the 
Chicago Tribune and South Bend Tribune have 
all but flat-out said the Notre Dame football 
coaching job has impossible standards to live 
up to for anyone. I beg to differ. 

Notre Dame, obviously, is a very catholic 
institution. I mean that with a small "c" and a 
big "r.." (Come on, think back to Theology 
101 ... ) The new coach needs to be someone 
who can take the Christian/Catholic principles 
and, regardless of what their actual religious 
atliliation is, apply them to his life and his 
coaching. Notre Dame needs a coach who will 
promote these values on and off the field. We 
want to be proud of our coach and feel that he 
is representing our school the best he can; we 
as students strive to do this every day. 
Sure, we want someone who can produce 
wins. llowevcr, an institutional fit won't just 
produce wins; he will produce them by the best 
means possible. Through hard work and dedi­
cation, this institutional fit will push his players 
to maintain the Notre Dame image at all times. 
What is that "Notre Dame image?" Integrity. 
Honesty. Hard work. Perseverance. 
Determination. 

Hold the new coach up to the same standards 
as students arc help up to when applying. What 
does the admissions otlice look for in applica­
tions? Well-rounded, hard working people. 
There are coaches out there that fit these 
qualifications. Find them. Make the Notre 
Dame community proud of our footbal1 team 
once again. 

Contact Lori Lewalski•at lewalski.1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS/ CLARI FlCATIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize chat we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please conrace us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS S?9 2-4000) is publi,hed Monday through Friday excepr during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the A",oci.ucd Pre;s. All reproduction righr. arc reserved. 
THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 
Holtz coaches final game 
Saturday, November 30, 1996 Lou Holtz ended his career as Notre Dame head coach with an unexpected 27-20 loss to the University of Southern California. The Irish fumbled the game away in the fourth quarter, allowing the Trojans their first win over the Irish in 13 years. 

Phil Donohue scholarship established 
Wednesday, December 9, 1992 Multimedia Entertainment, Inc. established a scholarships in honor of 1957 alumnus, Phil Donahue. "I cannot tell people how important Notre Dame is to me. I came to Notre Dame with all the answers. I left with good questions," said Donahue. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports
BEYOND CAMPUS 


Mass nudity, screaming help relieve finals stress 
LOS ANGELES 
Midnight Yell at University of California-Los Angeles is only one example of college students creating traditions to relieve finals stress, with similar activities seen across town and across the country. 
In recent years, administrators at UCLA, University of Southern California, Harvard and Princeton Univl~rsities have responded differ­ently to these rituals. 
At UCLA, administrators started warning students that they will be cited and may face disciplinary actions, especially after fall quarter in 1999, when students in apart­ments started burning couches and throwing bottles onto the street. 
USC has its own yell during finals week, but it is loosely coordinated, said Kathy Stewart, an assistant director in the Office for Residential and Greek Life. 
"It's just an excuse to have a study 






UCLA 
break," Stewart said. Primal Scream, as it is called at USC, is loosely orga­nized. Many dorms have their own events, but they lack campus-wide participation. Between 10 and 10:15 p.m., students gather, scream and then eat food provided by the hous­ing department. 
Three thousand miles away, stu­dents at Harvard University partic­ipate in their own Primal Scream, but they have raised the bar over USC. 
At Harvard, Primal Scream is intended to bring people together by removing barriers that separate them. 
Every semester before finals, stu­dents get together, remove all non­essential articles of clothing -shoes. socks, gloves and hats are recog­nized as essential in the biting winter cold -and run through campus. 
The event evolved into streaking from its original, tamer origins of' simply yelling. 
Helena Lee, a third-year biochem­istry student at Harvard, participated in the event last year in negative­four-degree temperatures and said it had the desired results. 
"It was a real bonding experience," Lee said. · 
But should people misperceive the intent of this naked ritual, Lee has a first-hand perspective. 
"Mass nudity is surprisingly unsexy," she said. The Harvard University Police Department assists with crowd control to ensure partici­pants go unmolested. 
KANSAS STATE UNIVERSITY 
Police search for missing students 
MANHATTAN, Kan. 
A search for two of three missing Kansas State University students at Tuttle Creek Lake is still being conducted by the Riley County Police Department. One body has been found, and the two others remain miss­ing. The friends went sailing Tuesday afternoon in a Snipe sailboat. The police found the overturned sail­boat near Carnahan Cove. Otlicials found the body of Timothy Michael Bennett, 19, freshman in environ­mental design, at about 9:15 a.m. Thursday. Bennett was spotted by rescuers on the shore about one or two miles north of the dock where the students departed. Kyle David Chapman, 17, freshman in computer sci­ence, and Christopher Nathan Shipley, 18, freshman in animal science, arc both still missing. Bennett is from Kansas City, Mo., and Chapman and Shipley are from Olathe. Police speculated that Bennett died of hypothermia. Water temperatures have berm around 49 degrees since Tuesday. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
, 

'!''"~,,,..,. 
i 4 
! 

Saturday Sunday Monday (f Tuesday ~--< 



: )
I-, 
Wednesday ,,s-l9, 
,,(J-••~:.~•~,..~ >-:.,,r! 
F 

~,Q,~q~Q.~c::1 
Showers T-storms Rain Flumes Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Vi.t Associated Press GraphicsNet 
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY 
Union negotiations at standstill 
NEW YOHK 

Although progress has been made in recent negotia­tions between New York University and the graduate student union. major disagreements on a number of issues are stiOing the completion of a contract, reprn­sentativcs of both sides said. In a memo to the University community following a negotiation session Nov. 29·, Vice President of Academic and llealth Affairs Robert Berne said administrators mad" improved eco­nomic proposals and agreed to union proposals regarding a grievanc,, system and union security. However, the memo also stated negotiations arn at "a discouraging juncture" in that no resolution is in sight on two issues. First. no agreement has hmm reached on the "no strike, no lockout" clause, which wouJd prP­vent the union from striking during the contract peri­od. There is also no agreement on the "management rights" clause, which would give tho Univ,~rsity sole authority 1n structuring its programs 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon, Friday, Dec. 7. Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
30. 20• 40s 70s 0 2001 AccuWeather, Inc. 20s COLD STATIONARY
........... WARM •• • 



High Low Showers V1,1 Ass.octafed Press  Rain  T-slorms  Flurries  Snow  Ice  Sunny  Pt. Cloudy  Cloudy  
Atlanta Baltimore Boston Chicago Houston  70 65 54 46 75  52 38 36 35 57  las Vegas Memphis Milwaukee New York Philadelphia  63 63 43 59 63  39 44 32 39 43  Portland 50 Sacramento 62 St. Louis 58 Tampa 82 Washington DC 65  42 41 36 65 43  


page 3

Friday, December 7, 2001 The Observer . NEWS 

The University of Notre Dame Department of Music Faculty Artist Serles Presents 
./\t,_it1:t:~1:1";;J:})~* -~ l , ... ~c,iiii~riti1~\
{!, fii ~lf,I,,.. ...-~·:;, ,,m,,~,{+"1"-~( IJ, I i/ .tJ ..,4',_ h'.''.<•hc,,•:x-:c:>«c..:·,,,•,:c;., .,·,-··. ·,,-smc,-,,.. 


In Concert 
GSU releases new logo 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
News Writer 
The Graduate Student Union is getting a makeover. The Publicity and Promotions Committee selected a graphic designed by Notre Dame senior Tiffany Roman as winner of the GSU cor­porate logo design contest. 
"It was very professional," said Ingrid Villa-Real, publicity and promotions chairman. "It was what we're looking for. We want­ed something that said this is a serious, professional organization led by dynamic people." 
Roman's design features the "GSU" abbreviation and the organization's full name below. The logo is in "ITC Fenice" type­face and is available in color and black and white forms. 
"GSU is a forum in which grad­uate students can share their concerns and bring awareness to their needs," Roman said in the report included with her submis­sion. "To represent this concept, I chose the image of a circle to symbolize a roundtable discus­
... 



graduah! i;tudcnt union 
sion where graduate students from the Arts & Letters, Engineering and Science College come together to meet and exchange ideas." 
Roman was one of nine partici­pants in the contest. The event was open to all undergraduate and graduate students in the state of Indiana and applicants were permitted to submit multi­ple designs. One of the partici­pants is a student at Purdue University and the remainder of the submissions came from Notre Dame students. 
Entries for the contest were judged by Villa-Real, GSU presi­dent Gabriela Burgos, Indiana University assistant professor of graphics Robert Sedlack and University of Illinois associate 

professor of industrial design John Caruso. 
The judges had some difficulty choosing the winner because of the competitive designs submit­ted but selected Roman's logo in the end because of the unifying theme it presented, according to Villa-Real. The judges liked the idea of an "inclusive" circle and the emphasis on the "U," repre­senting the individual graduate student. Roman was awarded $150 for her winning design. 
The logo will be used in official GSU publications and appear on the organization's letterhead. GSU also wants to put the logo on promotional items like key chains and T-shirts. 
The GSU hopes that the graph­ic will make their organization more visible, according to Burgos. 
"The winning logo is very pro­fessional," she said. "This is the image that we want to reflect. It will allow the community to iden­tify us." 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu. 

Internationals face increased security 
By CHRISTINA CEPERO 
News Writer 
· International students trav­eling home this winter will face increased security mea­sures, but should not face major problems traveling to their home countries and back to Notre Dame in January. 
"There is no real worry. The only pain is that I'm going to have to sit on a plane for 25 hours," said sophomore Carmen Wong who is flying home to Singapore. 
Director of the Office of Foreign Student Visas, Art Grubert, said problems will be minimized because most international students have valid passports, current and valid US-stamped visas, 1-20 forms, which must be signed yearly to admit students back into the University upon re­entering the US, and Form I­94, their registration docu­ment. However, he said new international students who hope to study at the University next year will face increased difficulties obtaining student visas. 
Students likely will not expe­rience problems flying out of the United States, but will face increased scrutiny upon re­entering the country. The State Department has desig­nated 26 countries for extra screening, most of which have large Arab and Muslim popu­lations. The countries include Indonesia, Pakistan, Saud Arabia; Syria and the United Arab Emirates. Men from age 16 to 45 can expect delays in processing their visas of up to ~ 20 days. _ 
The University's Office of Foreign Student Visas antici­pated this problem and issued students letters to present to the U.S. Embassy in their country, proving that they are students at Notre Dame. According to Grubert, some students will have to visit their Embassy during break to renew their visas. 
Freshman Swati Malik is traveling home to India this winter break and does not expect problems with increased security, but prob­lems related to a reduced number of flights. 
"Because there are fewer flights now since September 11th, I have an 11-hour stopover in London instead of four hours," she said. 
The American Embassy in India assured Malik that she should not have any problems returning to the Notre Dame. 
Maureen Fitzgibbon, Director of International Student Services and Activities, said she recommends that international students contact the Office of Foreign Student Visas for any paperwork or advice they may need. 
Contact Christina Cepero at ccepero@nd.edu. 

Special to the Observer 
The Glee Club will present its annual Christmas concert Saturday at 6 p.m. and 8:30 
p.m. in the Stepan Center on campus. The concert corre­sponds with the release of "In Dulci Jubilo," a new album of Christmas selec­tions recorded by the Glee 
Club in the Moreau Seminary Chapel. 
Admission for the concert is $3 and tickets can be ·pur­chased in advance at the Lafortune Student Center box office or by calling 631­8128. All proceeds from the ticket sales and a collection taken after each concert will benefit the Center for the Homeless in South Bend. 
Under the direction of 

Daniel Stowe, the Glee Club will perform many different styles and traditions of Christmas music including European carols and African­
.. American spirituals. 
=============================================-~­
Glee Club to present Christmas concert 
ColUffi6ia·:~ 
Sportswear 
~arrest selection czt 
sm7nute~ 
f,-om CU Ip.:,¦ I 
Campus-~ 
Cold Weather Experts 

Call 259-1000 for more details 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, December 7, 2001 




Renovated Regina parking lot opens 
has been further limited. In a
By ANNE MAHONEY 
letter sent by Security Director News Writer 
Richard Chlebek last week, stu­
dents were informed that they 
The $215,000 renovated could no longer park in the Regina parking lot re-opened Dalloway's lot during the day. last week. In an effort to relieve The lot will be reserved for facul­congestion, 50 new spaces and a ty, staff and visitors at that time. new road entrance were added. But for some students the new 
The lot was renovated to pre­addition to the parking lot has pare for the made finding new Student a space to
" ... they used the space so
Activities park less Center that will inefficiently." stressful. take away a Students living section of the in McCandless
Jill Conway
LeMans park­and parking in


Regina Hall Sophomore
ing lot when the Angela lot ground is bro­have found ken in April or that the added May. However, even with the spaces in Regina give the Angela 
improvements some students lot users a break. believe the new Regina parking "I can definitely tell a differ­lot is still inadequate. ence now that more people are 
The major complaint is that parking in Regina. I don't have to there are not enough spots in the park in the way back of the Regina lot for all residents. [Angela] lot anymore," said 
'Tm always having to park in freshman McCandless resident other lots and walk over to Olivia Barzydlo. Regina," said freshman Desiree Saint Mary's is aware that the Ferrell. parking problem cannot be fixed 
Jill Conway, a sophomore resi­by renovating Regina alone. dent, finds herself still scaveng­Keith Dennis, vice president for ing for parking because of what Finance and Administration, said she calls a misuse of space. a new parking lot north of the 
"The lot looked really nice and facilities building is planned but big while it was being built. but did not give a specific time for they used the space so ineffi­the project. ciently. There are huge wide rows and then tiny spaces where it is hard to even fit your car," said Conway. Contact Anne Mahoney at 
Bevond the Regina lot, parking maho9505@saintmarys.edu 
DOE 
continued from page 1 

"I would hope they make changes on suggestion alone," Alter said. "But I would prefer they [DOE] keep monitoring Saint Mary's to make sure they are making the changes that need to be made." 

A missing case? 

In the fall of 2000, Alter went to the Saint Mary's Security Web site to look up the crime statistics. In the slot labeled forcible rape under the year 1999, there was a zero. 
Alter. knowing that she reported her 1999 assault, was shocked to see that Saint Mary's had not reported or added her assault to the statistics. 
The missing data led Alter to contact the watchdog organiza• tion Security on Campus in December 2000. 
"In April I thought enough was enough and agreed to file a complaint. I had lost trust that Saint Mary's would make the changes," said Alter. 
With the backing of SOC, Alter filed a complaint against Saint Mary's with the Department of Education concerning her Jan. 30, 1999 reported rape. That complaint, filed on May 13, alleged that Saint Mary's was not in compliance with the Jeanne Clery Act. 
"Saint Mary's failed to list the January 30, 1999 reported rape in the 1999 and 2000 published reports," the DOE wrote in a letter to Saint Mary's detailing the Security on Campus com­plaint. 
After the complaint was filed, Saint Mary's and the Department of Education exchanged at least four letters discussing the complaint and specific issues of Saint Mary's compliance. During this exchange of letters, Saint Mary's claimed it had corrected the problems brought to the attention of the DOE by updat­ing the student handbook and revamping the security brochure. 

The DOE, however, was not satisfied with this response and further questioned Saint Mary's in an Aug. 14 letter. It ques• tioned why the listings for "Forcible Rapes" changed for the same years in two different reports. 
"Exhibit G of the Security on Campus complaint (Saint Mary's College campus Web site crime statistics as of April 6, 2001} includes one 'Forcible Rape' listed under 1999 and one listed under 1998. The 'Draft' 2001 Statistical Report, (your exhibit C) indicates one 'Forcible Rape' under calendar year 1999, please explain what happened to the 1998 'Forcible Rape' entry included on the Web site. If there was a second incident, please provide us with details relating to that incident," the DOE wrote to Saint Mary's in Aug. 14 interim correspon­dence. 

Coming to Campus 
The letter exchange did not convince the DOE that Saint Mary's was in compliance with the Act, and Richard Reinhardt, an investigator for the depart­ment, conducted an on-campus review of the College's report­ing procedures this week. Reinhardt interviewed College administrators, as well as reviewing internal security files. 
-
. 
Before the DOE came to Saint 
Mary's for the review, Alter got 
a chance to give her side of 
Saint Mary's reporting process 
in an interview with Richard 
Reinhardt of the DOE. 
"I told him about when I reported to Security. I told him about the counselor I went to see, but I also talked to him about how students are responding to the DOE coming. I told him they were happy because they know Saint Mary's needs to change," said Alter. "I also told him that 'Yes, Saint Mary's has made changes since the complaint, but they had 10 years to make these changes and that is what they [DOE] should look at." 
Although Reinhardt will not comment on his investigation now, Keith Dennis, acting as College spokesman for the investigation, said this week Reinhardt individually inter­viewed vice president of Student Affairs Linda Timm, director of Counseling and Career Development Mary DePauw, director of Security Richard Chlebek and director of Financial Aid Mary Nucciarone. 
If Saint Mary's is found not to be in compliance with the Clery act, the College could face up to a $25,000 fine and a loss of fed­eral financial aid. 
Dennis, however, is confident that the DOE review will not be negative and Saint Mary's will not be punished. 
"There may be some sugges­tions on how to handle things in the future, but it does not look like there will be any citations," said Dennis. 
Contact Myra McGriff at mcgrOl 8 l@saintmarys.edu 
..'.1-'~;_ 



~"-·'-,g.,~1l
.. >'l.'t~ ./~"--. ~:~""W\,. . ­' , -••• :, ·!I; ',J,,.,,:/' . ~ +-, . 
• ,. • •• 1• • , < 
.. • , .: : ...._ ,. ,-,;.J"I..., , 
·* "''\("i• '"',v.-..,.."t "',""'•-. 
; ·, -:. "'1 .• _,....... • .~.~ ,..... • • • .,; ' 

• • ,, ' -?. -:' ~­< : ~;;::i;fl 
~-11· ,:"'~. 

:"'·t.; 
. . ,. ~ ::it:~ 
~ ~-~ ,,y' 
r , ' . 
.--~ 
., 

r 
-·-,.,., 




ATION 
Friday, December 7, 2001 · COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Russian police foil uranium sale: 
Russian police have arrested seven people accused of trying to sell more than two pounds of highly-enriched weapons-grade uranium, Russian television said Thursday. The men were trying to sell a capsule con­taining uranium-235 for $30,000, NTV televi­sion said. The suspects were charged with illegal handling of nuclear materials, it said. 

Tide barriers to protect Venice: 
Italy approved a plan Thursday to save Venice from sinking by installing mobile barriers to protect the fabled city from high tides. The project, approved at a Cabinet meeting, will take about eight years and $2.6 billion to complete. It is called Moses after the Biblical figure who led his people safely through the Red Sea. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

Texan confesses to killing 26: A 
man convicted in six murders more than two decades ago confessed to 26 other slayings after he was arrested on drug charges. Juan Martin Cantu, who had served time in Texas and Mexican prisons, told investigators he killed people from Vera Cruz, Mexico, to Michigan. Cantu made the confession in a taped interview after his arrest Wednesday for felony marijuana possession. 
Bush to skip Pearl Harbor events: 
President Bush's decision to skip ceremonies for the 60th anniversary of Pearl Harbor is viewed by some as a setback to those seeking exoneration for the U.S. commanders held accountable for the success of the Japanese attack.The president is considering whether to restore full honor to the late Adm. Husband 
E. Kimmel and Gen. Walter C. Short, the offi­cers in charge at Pearl Harbor on Dec. 7, 1941. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 


Doll in trash mistaken for body: 
Police who searched a landfill discovered the legs a caller had seen sticking out of a trash bin belonged to a doll instead of a child's body. Attorney Mike McDaniel spotted the small blue tennis shoes attached to red denim pants legs during his morning walk. "My first impression was, 'There's a dummy in there," McDaniel said. "But I got back to the office and thought 'What if I'm wrong?'" New Albany police and Floyd County sheriff's deputies arrived within minutes, but a sanita­tion crew had already emptied the container. 
Market Watch December 6 

Dow 
10,099.14 -15.15 


Jones 

CompositeSame: 

Volume:
222 
1,452,071,936 

AMEX: 827.10 -2.49 NASDAQ: 2,054.27 +7.43 NYSE: 589.85 -1.47 S&P 500: 1167.10 -3.25 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS
• • • • %CHANGE 
NRON CORP (ENE) 0. 55 -0. 35 1.01.SDAQ-100 INDX (QQQ) 42. 91 +0.06 21. 54
-
ISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) 21. 79 +0.25 42.85 
Ii•UN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) 14.15 -0.42 15.37 RACLE CORP (ORCL) 15.90 +0.53 14.57 
AFGHANISTAN 


Associated Press 

KABUL 
U.S. Marines went on alert late Thursday and fired mortars from their base in southern Afghanistan to repel What a spokesman said was "almost certainly" an attempt by Taliban forces to probe their defenses. 
A UHN-1 Huey helicopter crashed near the airstrip here at Camp Rhino, and Marine spokesman Capt. Stewart Upton said two servicemen received minor injuries, one of them on the ground. 
He said the cause of the crash was under investiga­
· tion, but "we are 99 per­
cent sure that the heli­
copter did not crash 
because of enemy fire." 
Before the crash, small 
arms fire reverberated 
through the desert base 
along with the crisp blast 
of outgoing mortar rounds. 
Flares lit up the flat, dusty 
desert around Camp Rhino 
while journalists crouched 
in trenches. 

The base went on high 
alert Thursday night 
because of what a 
spokesman, Capt. David T. 
Romley, called a "credible 
threat." He said armed 
reconnaissance vehicles 
were sent into the desert 
to try to identify the 
intruders and call in mor­
tar fire. 

"We're almost positive it is enemy probing," said Upton. He said it was clear that whoever was moving outside the perimeter had "hostile intent." 
Journalists in the camp could see no incoming fire. However, they h~ard shouting outside the camp and the sound of gunfire. Helicopters made sweeps overhead in the clear night sky. 
Defense Department rules governing the jour­nalists' presence in the camp forbid reporting on exact operational mea­sures. 
Since the Marines seized this desert airstrip on Nov. 2 5, their only combat operation came on their second day, when Cobra helicopter gunships from the base helped warplanes from elsewhere attack a suspected hostile convoy that passed nearby. 
But the Marines said Wednesday that they were moving into position around the Taliban's last stronghold, Kandahar, to make sure the Taliban don't escape or bring in reinforcements. The Taliban agreed Thursday to surrender the city, but had yet to begin handing over their weapons. 

Worker goes on shooting spree at factory 
him," Elkhart County Sheriff's Capt. Earlier, the mayor and hospital
Associated Press 
Julie Dijkstra said. administrators said they feared 30 to GOSHEN, Ind. The gunman had apparently just 35 people had been shot. About five 
A man opened fire Thursday at the been fired or was about to be fired, employees escaped their building simulated-wood factory where he she said. His identity was not imme­either with minor injuries or no worked, killing a co-worker and diately released. injuries, Dijkstra said. wounding several others before com­Six people were wounded, one crit­Dispatchers were alerted in a 911 mitting suicide, authorities said. ically, State Police Sgt. Brant Klemm call from a neighboring factory at an 
One person was slain inside the said. Other details on the victims' industrial park, she said. About 12 Nu-Wood Decorative Millwork plant conditions were not immediately nearby factories were evacuated. and a SWAT team later found the available, but Klemm described them Police and SWAT teams surround­gunman in the factory's office area as "walking wounded." ed the factory and cordoned off the with an apparently self-inflicted gun• Workers told authorities an auto• industrial park on the edge of town. shot wound. A firearm was near the matic weapon was used and some Twelve nearby plants were evacuat­body. injuries appeared to be shotgun ed, and more than a dozen ambu­
"He was dead when they found wounds. lances lined l!P near the complex. 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, November 6, 2001 
Recession 
continued from page I 
need of every student who applies for financial aid and will continue to do so in the 
upcoming years. Saint Mary's uses a more complicat­ed formula based both 
on  need  
and  merit  
for  deter­ 

mining financial aid, which c a u s e s some appli­cants to receive m o r e money than 
College will meet the same percentage of need in future years as it is meeting now. 
Although both schools are just beginning to work on financial aid packages for next year and do not have any data at this point, they expect some families to show more 
"This is not scientific 
_data, but we know 

financial resources aren't what they used to be and we know the income of many more families are leveling off." 
Jim Malloy associate director of Financial Aid 
need than they have in the past. 
"Common sense says that since things had been going very well for the past 10 years and we are now in a recession, and this is not sci­entific data, but we know financial resources 

aren't what they used to be
demonstrated need and some and we know the income of
applicants to receive less. Dennis said he expects the many more families are level-
Tom, Hope your case went well today. Have a great 21st Birthday! 

NEW COURSE 
Spring 2002 
SIMULATION 
OF 

ENVIRONMENTAL BIOCOMPLEXITY 
This course will introduce and apply simulation theory and techniques to modeling Environmental Biocomplexity. Simulations will be built using programming languages such as CIC++ and Java, and packages such as SWARM and Mathematica. The course will focus on modeling the unique characteristics of biocomplcxity using simulation and atiificial intelligence techniques. 
Biocomplexity refers to the dynamic web of interrelationships between physical, biological, geochemical, hydrological, environmental, ecological, social; and economic systems. The study of biocomplexity includes systems that range from molecular to global in scale, and cxhibiJ properties that depend not only on the individual actions oftheir components, but also the interactions among those components. Course requirements: students should have had a semester computer programming course ( or equivalent). 
Instructor: Greg Madey gmadcy@nd.edu ······ 631-8752 Computer Science & Engineering 
CSE 498J/598J 
MWF 1 :55-2:45 
ing off," said Malloy. 

Last week, Indiana University announced possible budget cuts to make up for an expected $56.7-million wind­fall in state funding. Indiana President Myles Brand said that 75 percent of the cuts would be made in administra­tive areas by not filling staff vacancies and reducing spending on travel, supplies and equipment. The university is also considering imposing a technology fee on students during the next school year, but is not considering raising tuition to make up for the budget cuts. 
"I don't think [tuition increases] will happen in the immediate future," said. Hichard Doty, a media-rela­tions specialist at Indiana. 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at brodfuehrer.l@nd.edu. 
Lunch 

continued from page 1 
finance professor, advises 
the SIF. 
The SIF is part of the University's undergrad­u a t e Investment Club. It was established 
nearly  30  
years  ago  
with  a  

$10,000 gift from a 

rience," Ryan said about par­ticipating in the SIF. "When I came in here last year. I didn't even know the differ­ence between a stock and a bond. But having the school entrust us with $300,000 has 
"... having the school entrust us with $300,000 has been an outstanding opportunity to learn. " 
Kevin Ryan sophomore business student 
been an outstanding opportunity to learn." 
The SIF m e e t s weekly to t r a c k invest­ments. The group wel­comes new­comers, 
member of the College of Business Advisory Council. 
The group each spring determines long-and short­term objectives for a stock portfolio and tracks-its progress. The portfolio is now valued at more than $300,000. 
"It's a great learning expe-
I I 11 
especially those with little investment knowledge, Rowling said. 
"It's basically run like a business," Rowling said. "It's a very unique club." 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley. l@nd.edu. 
. 

........---:•··n:i;:;i;ti);·.:·~--~: • Security systems 
),.;,: ' 
0-::. .;: 

• 24-hour maintenance staff 
:~:;~;\-~..,.,..,~,......~-~~-· 
• Everybody gets their own bedroom! • 2-, 4-, 5-, 6-& S-bedroom houses 
_......,,....,,.,.,.,..,. 
,.,.,.,............ ....­
~ 
Only 7 left for tbe 2002--2003 scboolyear 
·······••. •····-­
Call today, houses are 
going fast! 

} Contact Kramer: Office: 234-2436 
,,.... 

Cell: 298-9673 • Voicemail: 674·2571 

lzt§n';iTu:~r :: 7:t~i!;7:'firf·~11;!•~w#:=~:1r.;:@iHiw.trr'fI~!r~!:&M1:1;1-t1kli:t~:.,z.1~~ 

Oe5 



Celebrate the last day of classes! 
Tuesday, Dec. 11th 
9:00pm-12:00am 
LaFortune Ballroom 
PROPERTIES 
Well maintained houses near campus 
• w~1shers and c1rj,ers provided 

r 
Friday, December 7, 2001 
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 

DeBartolo Hall Open Study Hours 
36 Rooms Available 
108,113,143,149,201,202,203,204,205,206,223,224,225, 301,302,303,304,305,306,307,308,326,327,328,329, 330,332,333,334,335,336,343,344,346,347,349 
FREE Midnight Snacks!!! 

'•~

You can bank on us 
to be better -­
-
um 1ous1•;

219/239-6611 • www.ndfcu.org LENDER 
Anthrax found at Federal Reserve 
Associated Press 
A batch of mail being 
processed at a mail-handling 
facility set up in a courtyard of 
the Federal Reserve's head­
quarters has tested positive for 
exposure to anthrax, officials 
said late Thursday. 
Officials said that the positive 
reading was obtained for a 
batch of mail containing about 
100 to 150 letters and it had 
not been determined yet 
whether any of the letters 
actually contained anthrax 
spores or whether some of the 
mail had been' contaminated by 
other letters. 
Fed spokeswoman Michelle 
Smith stressed that none of the 
mail had been inside the Fed's 
imposing headquarters build­
ing on Constitution Avenue or 
had been handled before the 
processing by any Fed board 
member. 
Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan and other members of the Fed board .were briefed on the develop­ment ]ate Thursday. Officials said they a public board meet­ing that had been scheduled for Friday had been canceled 

Cold Weather Experts 
5minutes from Campus 
Call 259-1000 for more details 
but otherwise the central bank would be open for business. 
Ever since the first anthrax letter sent to Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle was dis­covered, Fed officials said the central bank has heightened the security procedures used for handling mail. 
The batch of mail that tested positive for anthrax was being processed by three Fed employees and three contract employees all wearing protec­tive suits and breathing through respirators, Fed offi­cials said. 
The mail processing is now being done in a temporary facility set up in a courtyard of the Fed's main building on Constitution Avenue. 
Smith said that the FBI had been consulted after the posi­tive reading for anthrax was obtained with scanning devices the Fed has been using to screen all of its mail since the anthrax letters began appear­ing. 
She said Fed employees will conduct further tests on Friday in an effort to isolate the letter or letters that test positive for anthrax and these will be sent to a military facility for further analysis. 
"Since the first public reports of anthrax-contaminated mail surfaced, the board has process all mail through the secure mail-handling facility and it is not distributed inside the Federal Reserve buildings until it has been cleared," Smith said. 
The central bank's Federal Open Market Committee, com­posed of Fed board members in Washington and the Fed's 12 regional bank presidents, is scheduled to meet next Tuesday for its eighth and final interest rate meeting of the year. 
Smith said there were no current plans to cancel that meeting. 
Private economists widely believe the central bank will decide to cut interest rates for an 11th time at that meeting in a continued effort to boost the economy out of its first reces­sion in a decade. 

The university of Notre Dame Department of Music Presents 

Wednesday. Thursday & Tickets S3·6 Friday. December 5·7, 2001 LaFortune Box Office: 
8:00 PM Washington Hall (2 I 9} 63 1·8 I 28 Call 1219) 631-6201 or visit www.nd.edu/-congoers for more lnfonnarlo 

Friday, December 7, 2001

page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
THIS SUNDAY  
YOU COULD WIN  
$1,000,000.  
..::{//:!{  
_::·_:r_l:_•_i::::-•;_.:_•:_•:~.•:•_·•=•·1=.·•_l:l:=.J=_;_;:jl{.. _:: :  . :if: .. . .~--:.~=:-:::::::::::~:::•  
5 fans will have the chance  
to roll the dice for $1,000,000.  
If the dice spell  
1..R..1-s-H you win!  
::.::::;r  
 
l~ll/:. :•'. ...  . .... ·­. 1~fJ1r~li2:•il1 1~!llillll~1t~·· ..  

Call 

631-7356 
for tickets 
First 1,500 fans receive strip #1 of the player trading cards. 
South B.end Tribune 
Discover what's in it for you. 
page 9

Friday, December 7, 2001 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
Americans enjoy balmy weather 
Associated Press 
They're golfing in Nebraska, Christmas shopping in shorts in Kentucky and dining at side­walk cafes in New York. 
Americans are taking advan­tage of what is shaping up so far to be a balmy December, with several cities breaking temperature records as the mercury soars into the 60s and 70s. 
More than 80 golfers showed up to play rounds at Miracle Hills Golf and Tennis Center in Omaha on Tuesday and Wednesday. Highs in the mid­60s were recorded there, breaking the Dec. 5 record of 64 set in 1939 and 1975. 
Even though the higher tem­peratures mean longer-than­usual hours in the fall for employee Ryan Bloomberg, the extra business is helping make up for last spring's slump. 
"Come October we're sup­posed to slow down," Bloomberg said. "That's my vacation time and I haven't had that yet." 
New York City basked in a record high of 70 on Wednesday and a sidewalk cafe remained open across the street from the Rockefeller Center Christmas tree. 
Much· of the same region already had enjoyed an unusu­ally warm November, with temperatures routinely exceed­ing normal highs from Georgia to chilly New England. 
"It's gorgeous," said Lew Weinstein, a telecommunica­tions manager in Philadelphia. "I'm going outside in short­sleeved shirts and I haven't had to pay a hefty fuel bill." 
High temperature records have fallen by the wayside this week from Minnesota to Virginia and from Kansas to 
The reason for this season 
. .·.··· ,,<:?/.:·'. ... tr:0i';j
The jet stream's current ;; path prevents polar air from moving southward, '-t creating record-breaking I high temperatures. 
:::;\~\{-".~ phia 
~c...• 

SOURCE: AccuWeather AP 
Maine as readings reached the upper 60s and low 70s. 
In Portland, Maine, the mer­cury climbed to 60 degrees at the airport, breaking an old record of 55 set in 1951 and tied in 1953 and 1999. More of the same was expected Thursday. 
But while some celebrated, birds in New England were being tricked into springtime courtship displays and ski operators w~re complaining. 
For Tricia Unseth, a lodging manager at Whitecap Mountain Ski Resort in Hurley, Wis., the resort's planned opening Friday will have to be delayed by at least a week unless 6 feet of snow falls in a big hurry, she said. 
The official high of 68 degrees at Milwaukee's 
Mitchell International Airport Wednesday set an all-time record for December, topping the mark of 64 set Dec. 3, 1998, the weather service said. It was the warmest November ever recorded in parts of Wisconsin. 
The extended warm spell is due to weather patterns that have kept air flowing up from the Gulf of Mexico and has trapped colder air up north, said Bill Grady of the weather service at Burlington, Vt. 
A record high 73 degrees was recorded Wednesday in Louisville, Ky., beating the pre­vious record of 69 in 1975, said meteorologist Pat Waidley. The temperature in Lexington reached 72 degrees. The previ­ous high for the city on Dec. 5 was 68 degrees in 1972. 
Teachers trade class for jail 
. New Jersey arrests 228 striking educators 
Associated Press 
FREEHOLD, N.J. 
History teacher Barbara Guenther hasn't missed a day of class in 37 years. Now, she is spending her days in a 9-by-9 jail cell, locked up along with scores of other striking teach­ers in a bitter lesson in civil disobedience. 
Among them is Arline Corbett, 57, a veteran teacher who jokingly says she is so law­abiding she still has the "do not remove under penalty of law" tags on her old mattresses. 
Then there is physical educa­tion teacher Steve Antonucci, who was the toast of the town last weekend after coaching the Middletown Township High School South Tigers to a state football championship. 
Two days later, he was in jail, eating bologna sandwiches and standing for twice-a-day head counts with alleged killers, carjackers and petty crooks. 
"This is the reward I get," the 30-year-old coach told a judge before being led away in hand­cuffs like all the others. 
By the end of the day Thursday, 228 striking teach­ers in well-to-do Middletown Township had been jailed this week for violating a back-to­work order. They are the first New Jersey teachers to be locked up in 23 years, and some 500 more could follow. 
It is the biggest mass jailing of striking teachers since 1978, when 265 were locked up for 18 days in Bridgeport, Conn., according to National Education Association spokes­woman Darryl Figueroa. 
It is so busy at the court­house that hearings have been assigned to three judges. 
The teachers, who make an average of $56,000 annually, are fighting a move to increase their health care premiums by up to $600 per person, per year. Currently, they pay $250. 
None of the district's 10,500 students has been in class since Nov. 28 and the two sides remain far apart. The Board of Education received a death threat this week in a message left by a caller. 
"It's become a war," Schools Superintendent Jack DeTalvo said. 
The teachers have been called before judges in alpha­betical order -how else? ­starting with the As on Monday, the Bs on Tuesday and moving into the Os, Ps, Qs and Rs by Thursday. 
Many have made impas• sioned, Patrick Henry-like speeches about willingness to suffer the consequences of their defiance, their love of the job, and their contempt for Board of Education leaders. 
"I try to teach my students this country is fair and just," Guenther, 57, told Superior Court Judge Ira Kreizman this week, her voice breaking. "In this process, the law is not fair and just. Sometimes, good peo­ple have to stand up to fight an unjust law, and that's what I'm doing." 
Judge Clarkson Fisher Jr., who imposed the back-to-work 
order, said he decided on the one-week jail terms because he was concerned fines would not get teachers back to work. 
"You are holding the keys to the jail," Fisher told one group of strikers. "Any time you want to come out, let me know and you are out." 
Eight of those who were jailed were released on Thursday after pleading hard­ship and agreeing to return to work. 


Patq_!{onid
exclusively
Of . 
C 

Sminute~ 
from CIUTiDCISIT Campus s ors 
Cold Weather Experts 
Call 259-1000 for more details 
''Hopes, Dreains and Wishes,, 
CALENDAR SALE 

Interested in running for 
2002-2003 Student Bodv President or Vice-President? 
You must ·come to one of the informational meetings held 
Mondav, December 10 
7pm in Rm :10:i Haggar or 
ruesdav, December 11 
7pm in Rm 303 Haggar 
For questions i:ontact 

to benefit The Center for the Homeless 
. 
Calendars are $15 

. 
Will be sold at the Glee Club Concert Saturday December 8 th 

. 
Will be sold in some dorms after Mass on Sunday Decemher 9-th 

. 
Sponsored by The Center for the Homeless Children's Group 


Purchase a calendar to give as a gift to yourself, to your friends and to your family. 
You'll be glad you did! 
Marv Crawford at 284-445:l 
< • 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Friday, December 7, 2001 

page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
11,, I,u/,pnulntt, o.a, N,..,,,.,,.,. ~m#f N~m, o,,,,,, ··"s.;,.,111.,, ~ 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
Ass'r. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Par Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amsradter ScENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MAR¥'s EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CoNTROll.ER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTJSING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EmrnRIAssT. ME.................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.............................................. ...631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4 543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4 540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAJNT MAR¥'s..... ; ....................................... 631-4324 
< 

observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 
SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS............ ,....631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly srudenr reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
staff
August 1999 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately apd objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief; Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Quntions regarding Obmvapolicies should be direct• td to Ediwr in Chief M ilu Connolly. 

More than three generations ago, President Franklin D. Roosevelt declared December 7, 1941, "a day that will live in infamy." Today, exactly 60 
< 

years later, this generation struggles 
with an undeclared 
war against terror. 
How well we 
cope with the enor­
mity of horror 
emanating from 
war may depend 
upon our under­
standing of history. 
My father was 22 
years old when he 
and his "Greatest 
Generation" fought 
against Adolph 
Hitler's Nazis. 
While growing up, 
I rarely heard him 
speak of his war 
experiences. It was not until his mid­
40s that he attended army reunions and 
spoke more of World War II. When he 
approached retirement, the yearly 
Anzio Beachhead landing reunions of 
the Fifth Army Second Corps rivaled 
Notre Dame football Saturday tail­
gaters. 
I heard the funny stories about how 
his company hijacked an armored truck 
and each soldier had two feet of 
European currencies in his duffel bag ­
until someone got drunk and bragged 
that he could buy the'entire village. I 
heard of "Poopy Jones," the soldier who 
was forever constipated. And I heard of 
the time he met up with a hometown 
friend on a transport in Italy. 
Yet for each funny story, he could tell 
a hundred horrible ones, some of which 
he refused to recall. For Americans 
today who are testosterone-filled macho 
idiots pushing for U.S. forces to overrun 
countries like cowboys of the Old West, 
consider the horrors of war. 
Simply rewind VCR tapes of the World 
Trade Center attack to see people con­
sciously hurling themselves to a horri­
ble death in order to avoid the fire's 
immense heat. This week, American deaths with their flag-draped coffins can seem like mere statistics as they once did during the Vietnam war two generations ago. 

Soldiers never escape the repugnance of death. My father recalled animals an~ human bodies piled three stories high and six city blocks long. Those removed from war rarely see the sev­ered limbs, nor smell the stench of war which haunts today's military like it did yesteryear's soldiers. 
"The three smells of war that we never escaped were burning rubber, rotting flesh of both humans and ani­mals and diesel fuel," a veteran once said. He continued, "I can still smell it today." 
Another veteran recalled one winter day when his convoy passed a farm­house where an artillery explosion col­lapsed a wall. A civilian family sat at the dining table, exposed to the winter ele­ments. 
"Funny," the soldier thought at first ... until he realized that the concussion from the explosion had sucked all ttie air out of the lungs of the family without otherwise harming them. Grandfather, parents and children, food on the table as well as a pet, were frozen in place. 
Recently, the Turner Classic Movie cable channel aired "The Big Lift," a 1950 post-World War II movie starring Montgomery Clift. The movie told of the American air lift of Berlin caused by a Russian blockade. While the 50-year-old movie is quite corny, it was filmed in Berlin just five years after the war. It also historically shows how little was rebuilt during those five years, with piles of rubble along the streets and Germans still living in the cellars of bombed buildings. 
HBO's 10-part series, "Band of Brothers," best chronicles the human destruction of war as it follows the real life re-creation of the Army Rangers in World War II. The sounds of the bullets whizzing by establishes an eerie and scary atmosphere. The realistic carnage during each battle could sicken the most callused among us. As I watched each episode during the two-and-a-half month airing, I could see how the pre­sentation paralleled i:ny father's Fifth Army outfit. 
Like in the television soldiers, my father recuperated from punctured eardrums in a hospital at the rear flanks only to quickly return to the front lines. The trench foot incidents remind­ed me of the scars on my father's ankles where his army boots had rubbed his skin. The television soldier killed after the war had officially ended could have been my father's best friend who died after the war's end because he wanted to sleep outside of camp under a tree. The final episode showing veterans vis­iting Normandy's American cemetery was my father's 1987 visit to Anzio's American cemetery where he found his best friend's white headstone, and with tears in his eyes, choked, "Here's my buddy." 
War is truly hell. Anyone who uses inflammatory rhetoric about being "wanted dead or alive" must under­stand the consequences of war. Anyone who refuses to understand the causes of conflict overseas is sentencing a son or daughter, nephew or niece, neighbor or friend to future violence. Anyone who fails to understand history is con­demned to repeat its most vile moments. 
Sixty years ago today, the uninformed, the uncaring and the disinterested were changed forever. Since then, those who forgot the consequences contributed to the chaos of Vietnam. Hopefully in this century all of us will first understand the enormity of war and act accordingly rather than follow our urge for con­frontation. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame '73, served in President Clinton's adminis­tration as a Congressional and public affairs director. His column appears every other Friday. and his Internet address is Hottline@aol.com. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News 

Scott Brodfuehrer Sheila Egts Joe Ackerman 
Sports 
Matt Lazar 
Viewpoint 
Pat Kelly 
. 
Scene 
Amanda Greco 
Graphics 
Kristin Krouse 
Production 
Andrew Soukup 
Lab Tech 
Angela Campos 

POLL QUESTION 
Who do you want to be the new head football coach? 
Groden -83% Coughlin -4% Stoops -4% Belotti -2% Other -6% 
T oral voces: 1163 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"War never leaves a nation where it found a nation." 
Edmund Burke political philosopher 
• 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


"Patrick Duffy." 
"Wow. Why did I know that, too?" 
No comment on the man's acting abili­
ty, but why in the hell do I, a college senior at the University of Notre Dame who has never seen an episode of Dallas 
Joe Larson 

and will never admit to actually watching that ridiculous sit­
The Principles 

com (he was in Step 
ofJdiocracy

By Step, by the way). know who that guy is. 
After thinking about it and watching said actor in some TV detective movie for another half-hour before finally changing the channel I have realized what I've always known. I'm an idiot? Yes, but there's more. 
Immersed in the world of college acad­emia as we all are, I often find myself struggling to remember the minute details of my classes which would cata­pult me into the upper regions of intel­lectual bliss. These details which often allude me during exams are important. Knowing who Patrick Duffy is -again no comment on his acting ability -is not. So, really, the question is why can't I use my powers for good instead of evil? 
Why do I know these stupid, minute 
details? And more importantly, why I am 
I so upset when other people don't know 
these things? This past summer I was 
driving along in my car enjoying the 
radio when the disc jockey, a man who is 
paid money to talk about music, intro­
duced a song during its opening chords 
as, "China Grove," by BTO (Bachman 
Turner Overdrive, for those not familiar 
with the abbreviation). Clearly this song 
is not a BTO collaboration, but rather is 
a creation of the Doobie Brothers. 
I was incensed. How could a man who 
calls himself a disc jockey not know the 
difference between Bachman Turner . Overdrive and the Doobie Brothers? It was shocking. Other than the fact that 
both musical institutions were prevalent 
in the 1970s, the two bands have nearly 
nothing in common. This is apples and 
oranges, people. This is a mistake I'm 
simply not willing to accept. 
Why? Why do I have this problem? 
Why does it take me two chords into the 
intro of "China Grove" to decipher that 
it's the Doobie Brothers and not 
Bachman Turner Overdrive playing on 
the radio? I hate 70s rock. I own no 
records, tapes, or CDs by either of these 
two bands. Ifsome DJ tells me I'm listen­
ing to BTO when the Doobies are on, I 
should just be sitting there enjoying BTO. 
not knowing any better. But I don't. I know the difference and I can't stand the mistake. 
Now, conversely, when I'm being test­ed on my knowledge of literature and I'm supposed to know whether it's Coleridge or Wordsworth I'm reading, I don't have a clue. And not only do I not have a clue, l don't really get all that emotional about it. I justify my ignorance by telling other people and myself that a question like that is too hard to answer. How am I supposed to read a short pas­sage and know who wrote it? I can't memorize everything those authors wrote, isn't it more important to just understand the piece as a whole? 
So. my question is why do I remember meaningless details (for example: in the Saved by the Bell episode when Screech has telepathic powers, he is shocked by something and the powers go away. I know that the drink he has on the table in front of him was orange.) when I should be remembering important acad­emic information? If I could remember small details of "The Brothers Karamazov" like I remember "Wayne's World," I'd probably be a Rhodes Scholar by now. 
Currently, we're at the end of the semester and it's no different from any of the other ones. I wish I remembered more from my classes. I wish when I read over my notes that a spark of recognition came fluttering back to my brain. When that recognition alludes me, I really wish I wouldn't have diluted my brain with all those episodes of Full House ("Have mercy!") and Baywatch 
. (no quote necessary) when I was younger. I cannot be the only one who has expe­rienced this feeling of inadequacy. In fact, I'm almost positive there were even old-time poets who discussed feeling the same way. A quote would be great here, it's just a shame I can't remember one. 
Joe Larson is a senior English and History major. He hopes that his fellow classmates will not look down at his incessant television viewing and radio listening as a youngster. He would like to remind those kids who actually read books for fun when they were kids that he can, in fact, read, and probably just as effective as they can. He can be reached at larson.13@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR Credit Davie only for his coaching achievements 
I love Notre Dame football. It's fun. I tailgate before every game (oops, maybe shouldn'thave said that), I wear my Notre Dame gear, I do all the cheers, I know as much about this team as any fan does -its strengths, tendencies and weaknesses. I am totally into it, but I understand that it is not life and death like some disillusioned fans might have you believe. 
Uke many people have pointed out in these pages this week, Coach Davie is a man, and I have never lost sight of that. Even so, I do not lose sleep over his firing. 
He was brought in and paid, paid lots and lots of money, to be a football coach -a good football coach. 
He says the players go to class. Newsflash: That's what classes are for. 
He says they stay out-0f trouble. Wow, these players must've had parents before they came here. . 
He says they get good grades. Bravo to the professors that teach them. 
All those things are expected here. Staying out of trouble and going to class is not that hard. Really. 
Was Coach Davie tutoring the players in Calculus? Doubt it. Was he out with them on a Thursday night making sure their noses were clean? Doubt it. Did he take their tests? Hope not. 
Was he out there on Saturdays this fall? Yep. Did he run the ball on first and second down, pass it on third and punt on fourth? You bet. Did he manage to coach losing teams ih 40 percent of his seasons here? Yes. 
You see, it's easy. It's all about personal responsibili­ty and giving credit where credit is due. Bob Davie is a little mixed up here. The players and professors should be applauded for owning up to their responsibilities as students and teachers. He can't honestly take their successes for his own. Just because student­athletes at other schools are noi really expected to be students 
does not mean that we should praise our Coach when our ath­·letes do what they should be 
doing all along. 

Last time I checked, no pro­fessor or teaching assistant ever took credit for an inter­ception, touchdown or bowl , 
win (well, not that they could do that when Davie was here), so Bob Davie should stop trying to take credit for teaching Kant, 
the quadratic formula or Einstein's theory of relativity. Go Irish! 

Andy Mayle law student Fremont, OH 
Dec. 6, 2001 
War has no rules 
About 230 years ago the current empire (USA) gained its independence from the last great empire (England) through a series of encounters fought on what was soon to be American soil. The United States knew it had won because the number of dead men who had fought for England exceeded the number of dead men who had fought for the United States. 
The United States was able to rally its rag tag farmers to beat the best trained fighters in the world because it didn't heed the traditional rules of play. While the British marched into battle heads high, backs strait, collars stiff, etc. -according to all the established rules of mortal combat, the Americans launched a new form of guerrilla war­fare which caught the British by surprise, and killed lots of them. 
We changed the rules and won according to this new set of rules. After all. all is fair in love and war. 
The current Empire (see "The Empire Strikes Back," or "America Strikes Back") is now under attack. The bad guys? Those who destroy life• according to a new set of conventions, the conven­tions of so-called terror­ism. 
So, as the War on Terrorism continues, let us not conceive of war as an ordeal that has any set rules of conduct. the breachers of which shall be punished, but as what it is: a means of destroying life. 
Let's have no pretense about our methods of com­bat versus theirs. Traditional warfare, guer­rilla warfare, terrorism, whatever. A war by any other name still gets you equally dead. 
Harry Zettatestis 
class of 'O 1 Dec. 6, 2001 

----·--·---· 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 12 Friday, December 7, 2001 
Two painters, one house and a 
The van Gogh and Gauguin exhibit is now at the Art Institute ofChicago. Here is, 
By RANDI N. BELISOMO and MARIAH RAIN QUINN 
Scene Writers 
Van Gogh and Gauguin: The Studio of the South, the acclaimed exhibition at the Art Institute of Chicago, chronicles the brief but revolutionary 1888 collabora­tion between Vincent van Gogh and Paul Gauguin in Arles, France. 
The exhibit is co-organized by the Art Institute and the Van Gogh Museum, 
Van Gogh and
Amsterdam. It contains 150 works dis­more fortunate artists was to come," van played in conjunction with their private Gauguin Gogh wrote to Theo. correspondence and conversations that The Studio of the South "The Studio of the South was all about 
accounts the personal and professional hope," Druick said. Van Gogh symbolized histories of both artists. this hope in the painting "Gauguin's Their time spent together in the Chair" in November, 1888. On the chair is 
. Art Institute of Chicago
"Yellow House" in Arles was fraught with a lit candle and two books, symbols of 
. Through Jan. 13, 2002
disagreement, but it was also a period of inspiration and knowledge. great change and productivity for the two . Tickets available at the Their style of painting in some ways artists; it served to influence their respec­mirrored their personalities. Van Gogh
museum or by calling (312)
tive styles of painting and further the evo­preferred working "de tete," from the lution of modern art. 575-8000 imagination. He painted quickly, com­"Each was a catalytic force in the work . $10 on Tues., $20 all pletely immersed in his work; van Gogh that became their legacy," said Douglas said of his art, "I want to paint men and 
Druick, curator of the exhibit. other days, guided tour $6 women with a touch of the eternal whose 
Their work fused reality and imagina­tion; their paintings were characterized by bold and unusual uses of color, hallmarks of the Fauvist and other modern art movements yet to come. 
Both men were imbued with wanderlust from an early age. Van Gogh moved from the Hague to London and then to Paris while working as a clerk in a com­mercial art firm. Spurred by deep religious fervor, he became a minister to miners in Belgium in 1879. By 1880 he had become "homesick for the land of pic­tures" and the importance of religion began to recede from his life, leaving a void that was to be filled by art. 
Gauguin had a similarly rootless youth. Son of a radi­cal newspaper editor, who died when the artist was an infant, Gauguin spent the first five years of his life in Lima, Peru. While a young man, he spent six years in the merchant marines before returning to Paris in 1871. His career was marked by continuous movement, including extended periods spent in Martinique and Tahiti. 
Van Gogh dreamt of creating a studio in Aries that would serve as a self-sustaining community of artists and a refuge for present and future painters. Van Gogh wanted Gauguin to be the head and chief mentor of this kinship of creativity. 
Three weeks before Gauguin's arrival in Aries, van Gogh wrote to him, "hope is vaguely beckoning on the horizon ... I would so much like to imbue you with a large share of my faith that we shall succeed in starting something that will endure." 
In one of his many letters to his brother Theo, a prominent art dealer, van Gogh confided that the disap­pointments and setbacks that he and many of his fellow artists experienced often left him depressed. The idea of a studio in Aries to nurture future talent filled him with a sense of optimism. 
"It would be of some comfort, however, 
if one could think that a generation of 

Gauguin's 1901 "Sunflowers on an Armchair" Is a tribute to the Influence of van Gogh 
the sun.

and his artistic style as well as an expression of mourning for the artist's passing. 
symbol was once the halo, which I try to convey by the very radiance and vibrancy of color." 
His preference was to paint responsive oil studies based on subjects that were present -often nature, a technique obvious in his use of thick, broad strokes. 
Gauguin, on the other hand, painted in a more delib­erate style. He would immerse himself in his surround­ings, trying to get a feel for the rhythm and essence of his subject. He worked more slowly than van Gogh, exe­cuting several preliminary studies of a work before moving onto a final product. Unlike van Gogh, who sought to capture a piece of the soul of his subject, Gauguin said, "When I look at a portrait I scarcely see the facial features whereas I deeply sense the moral portrait of [the painter's] thoughts." 
Van Gogh committed suicide in July, 1890, but the work of the Studio and its influence lived on. The nine weeks that Gauguin and van Gogh spent together were invaluable to both men, to the artists of their genera­tion and to the artists of the generations to come. 
"Van Gogh and Gauguin were the fathers of mod­ernism, and spawned a new creativity in the 20th cen­tury," Druick said. 
Before he died, van Gogh acknowledged that fact; in a prescient letter to Theo, van Gogh wrote, "Painters ... dead and buried speak to the next generation or to sev­
eral succeeding gen­erations through their work." 
Though brief, those tumultuous nine weeks indeed proved a period of great artistry and shared creative growth. 
The exhibit at the Art Institute of Chicago is not con­fined to the work produced during their 1888 fall retreat; it serves as an effective lens through which to view the evolution of their art. Van Gogh's eagerness with regard to. his blos­soming relationship with Gauguin is evi­dent in his noted "Two Sunflowers." A gift to Gauguin, it is a symbol of the dependence upon loved ones, with the flowers turned receptively toward 
Van Gogh admired Gauguin's 1887 "Martinique" arid noticed a complexity in the work that he felt he lacked in his own paintings. He responded with his own 1888 "Pear Tree in Blossom," a painting mod­eled after the 1850's Japanese prints of 

Hiroshige. Like Gauguin, van Gogh felt compelled to turn to the exotic. , 
Just weeks before Gauguin's arrival in Aries, van Gogh painted "The Starry Night over the Rhone," an expression of his conflicting emotions of exhilaration and anxiety. 
It was this ardent admiration for Gauguin that led to a frenzied welcome upon his arrival on Oct. 23, 1888. Their first point of contention came when van Gogh prepared to set out to paint the day following Gauguin's arrival; Gauguin was not accustomed to such a hurried pace. 
On their initial outing, their diverging styles manifest in two opposing works of a common subject, "Les Alycamps," a medieval burial ground on the plains of the Crau. Van Gogh painted two lovers on the site, per­haps a symbol of the idealized companionship for which he was hoping. The man is a Zouave, a soldier not native to the region, only stationed there en route to other locations. Van Gogh's canvas includes a second symbol of modernity in the smoke stacks of a neighbor­ing factory. Gauguin's canvas, however, eliminated all signs of the present day in a thoughtful composition of the serene landscape. While van Gogh's hues are vibrant and hopefully optimistic, Gauguin's colors ~re 

Van Gogh's 1888 painting entitled "The Yellow House" depic painting together, forging a friendship that would end with t~ would continue through the llfe and work of each artist . 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Friday, December 7, 200 I page 13 
revolution for the world of art 
the story ofthe artists' relationship and their influence on each other and all art 

The Studio
• 

of the South 
prevailing mood. 
shadowed and peaceful. 
The coming of November brought an onset of rain, driving the two artists inside the Yellow House. Such close contact deepened the growing chasm in the rela­tionship. Gauguin's Nov. 11 "Human Miserief' perhaps is an expression of the 
The mysteriousness of the relationship between the depicted figures is· intensified by their estranged posi­tioning on the_ canvas. The artist succeeds in this por­trayal of sorrow through a mood of desperation and ambiguity. His "Blue Trees" oflate November expounds on this mood; Gauguin paints two looming figures sepa­rated by a lone tree. Despite the deterioration of the relationship in their Yellow House, Gauguin incorpQrat­ed van Gogh's influence with his thick brush strokes and heavy application of paint. · 
As inclement weather continued, their arguments began to escalate. Gauguin confided in his friend and fellow artist·Emile Bernard that "in general, van Gogh and I do not see eye to eye as regards to painting." In mid-December of 1888, van Gogh wrote to Theo, "Our arguments are terribly electric, we come out of them sometimes with our heads as exhausted as an electric · battery after it has run down." 
Gauguin wrote to Theo that he and van Gogh could not go on living together "in consequence of incompati­bility of temper" and on Dec. 23, 1888 van Gogh confid­ed in his brother that "Gauguin was a little out of sorts with the good town of Aries, the little yellow house 

. ;., ·. 

Photo courtesy of Van Gogh Museum. Amsterdam ~ts the house where he and Gauguin spent nine weeks 1eir departure from the house, though the artistic bond 
where we work and especially with me." 
He was correct; the collaboration came to an end a day later. Van Gogh was in the hospital after suf­fering a break­down in which he cut off part of his ear; he was dis­traught over the imminent depar­ture of Gauguin and the end of the 

Studio  of  the  
South.  The  two  
men  never  saw  

each other again. 

The work they produced following the abrupt end to the studio is laden with the emotion and tension that resulted from their relationship and the artists' mutual inspiration. Gauguin's haunt­ing "Self Portrait Jug" is a sign of his little-recog­nized torment. With streaming blood and clenched eyes, Gauguin launched himself into martyrdom. The jug's lack of ears implies the persistent presence of the memory of van Gogh's self-mutilation. 
Despite his own torture, van Gogh continued in his· optimistic ventures in the post-Arles period. His famed 1889 "The Starry Night" is marked by ethereal and sweeping brush strokes; the work is a symbol of van Gogh's hope to once again work with Gauguin. A wild­ness is present, unseen in his previous depiction of the night sky. 
Following van Gogh's 1890 suicide, Gauguin, in char­acteristic fashion, set out to exotic Tahiti to establish the School of the Tropics; such a move was a surprising recognition of van Gogh's belief in the benefit of a for­mal site for artistic production. He embraced van Gogh's use of vivid color and light in his depictions of the island natives, a newfound exuber­ance not evident in prior work. 
The Studio of the South had far greater significance than an isolated two months in Aries. Its emotional, stylistic and thematic effects were evidenced in the anticipation, pro­duction and after­math of the collabo­ration. The exhibit paints a complex portrait of this little before discussed relationship, a rela­tionship between artistic giants teem­ing with subtle intri­cacy. 
The exhibit con­cludes with Gauguin's 1901 "Sunflowers on an Armchair," a radiant floral com position panion. A vase of witherirrg sunflowers rests on a chair, in a nearby window, the face of a pensive Tahitian woman is visible. This thoughtful union of Gauguin's past friendship and present situation serves as a mov­ing memorial that demonstrates the artists' abiding personal and artistic relationship. "There is an evident nostalgia and it is a reference to their time together. a tenderness and greater sympathy," Druick said. 

· A statement made by Gauguin in 1903 showed great foresight regarding the incalculable influence of this alliance: "Unbeknownst to the public, two men accom­plished in that period a colossal amount of work, useful to both of them. Perhaps to others as well. Some things bear fruit." 
Contact Randi Belisomo and Mariah Quinn at rbelisom@nd.edu or mquinn2@nd.edu. 

Weeks prior to Gauguin's 1888 arrival at the yellow house In Aries, van Gogh paint­
that was a tribute to his influential com-ed "The Starry Night over the Rhone," showing his mixed emotions about the weeks 
to come in that house. 

Friday, December 7, 2001 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
NBA 
Healthy Jordan scores 18, Wizards win 
1 7 seconds left in the period to 
Associated Press 
give the Wizards a 60-58 lead. Mobley had 11 points in the
HOUSTON 

first quarter and finished theMichael Jordan needed a little 

half with 17. Mobley snapped a
time to get warmed up after 
38-all tie with a pair of free
missing a game because of a throws with 59 seconds left in sore knee. 
the second quarter.
Jordan scored 10 of his 18 

Jordan wo·rked out with thepoints in the fourth quarter to 
Wizards in Houston on
lead the Washington Wizards to Wednesday, but still wasn't sure an 85-82 victory over Houston, he'd be able to play in the game the Rockets' eighth consecutive Thursday night. 
defeat. 

On Monday, Jordan had fluid
"I haven't touched a ball in 

drained from his knee for theabout five days," Jordan said. 
second time this season. An MRI
"It took me three quarters to 
exam showed no serious dam­find a rhythm. But I'm just glad age. He hyperextended the knee I was able to help the team in 
during preseason and it has
the fourth quarter." 
been consistently sore andJordan missed the game 
swollen.

Tuesday night at San Antonio "He's still a great player. Iwith a right knee injury, the don't know why he's still play­first game he missed because of 
ing, though," Rockets coach
injury since March 5, 1993. He Rudy Tomjanovich said. "He's areceived a big ovation when he good golfer and a good sandlot
was introduced with the 
baseball player, so I don't know Wizards' starting lineup. 
what the heck he's doing mess­Jordan was at his best in the ing with us.
fourth quarter, hitting five bas­"He's probably the only onekets down the stretch, including who could do what he's doing." 
a driving reverse layup that gave Washington a 66-62 lead with 9:07 to play. Moments Timberwolves 105, Grizzlies 80 later, he hit a 12-foot turn­A return to the basics netted around jumper to make it 68-immediate results for the 
63. Minnesota Timberwolves. 
"I felt good. I wasn't trying to Terrell Brandon had 22 points overextend myself," Jordan and 10 assists, and Kevin said. "My wind was a question, Garnett added 20 points and 15 but Doug [Collins] was very rebounds to lead the adamant about keeping my Timberwolves to a victory over minutes down." the Memphis Grizzlies. 
Collins held Jordan to 33 min­Minnesota built a 21-point utes of playing time. lead at the half and went on to 
"I wanted him to play snap a four-game road losing between 30 and 33 minutes," streak. .. Collins said. "We were hoping "We came out and we got that we could keep the game in back to doing some of the things a good situation so when we were doing before," Michael came in in the fourth Minnesota coach Flip Saunders quarter he could do the things said. "We played basic basket­he does. He struggled with his ball, defended well, and shot the first three quarters, but rebounded extremely well." when it counted, he was in a Rasho Nesterovic and Wally good rhythm." Szczerbiak each added 14 
Richard Hamilton led the points for the Timberwolves. Wizards with 24 points. Popeye Pau Gasol led Memphis with Jones had 10 points and 10 22 points and 11 rebounds. rebounds. Jason Williams scored 11 points 
Cuttino Mobley led Houston on 5-for-15 shooting as the with 25 points, one point short Grizzlies absorbed their second of his season high. Kelvin Cato straight lopsided loss. Memphis added 12 points and 10 · lost by 42 points in Orlando on rebounds. Monday night. 
The Rockets led 40-38 at the "Minnesota is the best execut­half. Hamilton scored 10 points ing team in the NBA," Memphis in the third quarter, and Jobes coach Sidney Lowe said. "I added a pair of free throws with warned my team of that. They have a star in Garnett, and they ened. shot 12-for-22 and Casselrwent have a star in Brandon. They The Timberwolves outre­11-for-16. also have an emerging star in bounded Memphis 28-14 and Glenn Robinson and Tim Szczerbiak." had 10 second-chance points in Thomas each scored 13 for the 

Minnesota capitalized on the the first half, compared to only Bucks, who were without coach absence of Memphis center one for Memphis, which shot 38 George Karl. Lorenzen Wright. The Grizzlies' percent in the first half. Karl missed the game because leading rebounder was placed The Timherwolves maintained of the death of his father. on the injured list Thursday their 20-point lead through Joseph Karl died in Marysville, with a non-displaced fracture much of the third and entered Wash., Thursday morning. He just below the left knee. the fourth leading 87-65. was 95. 
"We prepared with Wright It is the first time Karl has and without Wright," Garnett missed a game with the Bucks
Bucks 95, Raptors 89
said. "It didn't matter much. in his more than three years as
Ray Allen scored 30 points
The thing we wanted to do was coach. A timetable for his
and Sam Cassell added 23 as
be aggressive and try to take return has not been set.
the Milwaukee Bucks snapped a 
some things away from them. Assistant coach Terry Stotts led
five-game losing streak with a
We focus on us. We're not really the Bucks in Karl's absence. 
victory over the Toronto

focused on the opposition." Vince Carter scored 26 points, 
Raptors.
Garnett, Brandon and Keon Clark 18 and Alvin
Allen and Cassell, who shot a
Nesterovic each scored 12 Williams 16 for the Raptors. 
combined 8-for-36 in a loss to
points in the first half as The Bucks scored the first
New York on Tuesday night,
Minnesota built a 58-37 half­seven points of the third quarter
improved against Toronto. Allen 
time lead and was never threat-to push their lead to 53-39. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
l . I  NOTICES SEMESTER BREAK WORK 400+ LOCATIONS AROUND THE U.S. WWW.WORKFORSTUDENTS.CO M SPRING BREAK Cancun, Jamaica, S. Padre, & all Florida destinations. BEST Hotels, FREE parties, LOWEST prices! www.breakerstravel.com (800) 985-6789. °'ACT NOW! GUARANTEE THE  FOR RENT HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM­PUS mmmrentals.com email:mmm­rentals@aol.com Houses available for 3 to 6 stu• dents. Good area... ADT, washer• dryer-air. Dave 340-0106 Student Wanted! Ah:1m owned 2 story, 5 bdr, 2 bth w/new carpet. appl, sec.roof & furnace, 3 lot yd, 1 blk.N of Club 23. 1-800-731-0043  82 Cadillac Eldorado coupe. Very good condition. Going to Rome pro­gram. $2,800. Call 631-5663. Ask for Goncalo or email gcorneli@nd.edu Lou Holtz Autographed 1988 National Championship Poster. A must to, :my N.D. fan. Only $125.(219) 289-8048 Lou Holtz autographed 1988 National Championship poster. $100. 219-289:8040. WANTED  SPRING BREAK PARTY! Indulge in FREE Travel, Drinks, Food and Parties with the Best DJs and celebrities in Cancun, Jamaica, Mazatlan, and the Bahamas. Go to StudentCity.com, call 1-800·293•1443 or email sales@studentcity.com to find out more. Good$ over X-Mas • Computer help. Layout/design work and change website. Access & FP2000 a must. Work at home. 273-8857  PERSONAL SPRING BREAK Largest selection of Spring Break Destinations, including Cruises! Rep Positions, Free Drinks and Free trips available. www EpicuRRean.com 1-800-231­4-FUN Spring Break with STS, Americas #1 Student Tour Operator. Promote trips on campus, earn cash and free trips. Info/Reservations. 1-800-648•4849 www.ststravel.com  wanna lose weight? The JuicePlus Man can help! Call Andrew Laflin 4­3310 Happy 21st Jonathan!! Have a fab dayl •AM EARN HOLIDAY CASH 257-8129 Lost and found classifieds are free. If you found somebody's stuff, help them out and put in a classified.  
BEST SPRING BREAK PRICES! SOUTH PADRE, CANCUN,. JAMAICA, BAHAMAS, ACAPUL­CO, FLORIDA & MARDI GRAS. REPS. NEEDED...TRAVEL FREE, EARN$$$. GROUP DISCOUNTS FOR 6+. 800-838­8203fVI/W\N.LEISURETOURS.CO M  FOR SALE 95 Mazda 626 LX, loaded, leather & power sunroof, 69,000 miles. $5,500. Days: 231-3930 Eves: 616-445-0922  WANTED: SPRING BREAKERS! Sun Coast Vacations wants to send you on Spring Break to Cancun, the Bahamas, Jamaica, or Mazatlan FOR FREE! To find out how, call 1-888-777-4642 or email: sales@suncoastvacations.com  Calling Elvis ... looking for students to work as impersonators at JPW for the 1950s booth. Desperately seeking James Dean, Marilyn Monroe and the KING! Call Jocie Antonelli at 631-0106.  •••ACT NOW! GUARANTEE THE BEST SPRING BREAK PRICES! SOUTH PADRE, CANCUN, JAMAICA, BAHAMAS, ACAPUL­CO, FLORIDA & MARDI GRAS. REPS NEEDED. TRAVEL FREE, EARN $$$. GROUP DISCOUNT FOR 6+. 800-838-8203/ WWW.LEISURETOURS. COM  The Observer is always looking for enthusiastic writers. Contact Jason, the News Editor, at 631-5323 or Noah, the Sports Editor, at 631­4543. Use Observer Classifieds!  

Friday, December 7, 200 I The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 

Career, Job and Internship Fairs 2002 University of Notre Dame The Career Center 
The job and internship search is far from over! Look at the fallowing events to continue your search for perma­nent and summer employment opportunities! I! 
!NEW YORKI 
The University Consortium 
Thursday & Friday, .January 3-4, 2002 
Double Tree Guest Suites Hotel, Times Square, Manhattan, New York 
* Sample Careers: Business, Marketing, Media, Advertising, Public Relations, etc. 
• 
Apply online at UnivesityConsortium.erecruiting.com or link through the Go IRISH homepage 

• 
Application deadline:Monday, December 14, 2002 by 12:00 noon 

• 
Students are resp:msible for their own transportation. 

• 
E-mail contact: pruitt.8@nd.edu 


Careers 2002-New York 
Friday, January 4, 2002 
* I 00 companies with a diverse array of career opportunities. Business, Engineering, Science, Law, Government, Computer Science, Sales, Marketing. Finance, Accounting, Consulting, Banking, Tec~nology and more. 
• Apply·online at: www.careerconferences.com 
• Application deadline: Sunday, December 15, 2001 by 12:00 noon 
• Students are responsible for their own transportation. 
New York Metro Link 
Monday, March 25, 2002 
American Management Association. 160I Broadway, Manhattan, NY 
* 
Paiticipating Colleges: Notre Dame. Duke, Yale, Richmond, and William & · Mary 

* 
Careers in Media, Advertising, Publishing, Paralegal, Fashion, etc. 


• Apply on-line at MetroLink.erecrniting.com or link through the Go IRISH Homepage 
• Application deadline: Friday, ,January 25, 2002 by 12:00 noon 
• 
Transportation will be coordinated through The Career Center. 

• 
E-mail contact pruitt.8@nd.edu 


I CHICAGO I 
Careers 2002 -Chicago 
Friday, January 28, 2002 
Oak Brook Terrace Conference Center, Chicago, IL 
• 
More than 80 companies and organizations are confirmed to attend. 

• 
Transportation will be provided by The Career Center for the first 45 students who sign up! 

• 
Apply on-line at www.careerconferences.com 

• 
Application deadline: Ftiday, January 23, 2002 

• 
E-mail contact: svete. I@nd.edu 


ION-CAMPUS I 
Winter Career and Internship Fair 
Thursday, January 31, 2002 
Joyce Center Field House 
• 
All Majors Welcome 


• 
Internships and Full-time positions 

• 
Go to careercenter.nd.edu for further employer contact information. 

• 
E-mail contact: ndcps.l@nd.edu 


College ofArchitecture Career Fair-Notre Dame 
Thursday, March 21-Sunday March 24, 2002 
Bond Hall & The Career Center, Flanner Hall 
• 
The Career Fair will run from Thursday. March 21 to Sunday, March 24, and will include an open career information program combined with indi­vidual interviews on Saturday and Sunday. 

• 
E-mail contact marsh. l 9@nd.edu 


JMUNCIEI. 
Indiana Journalism Job Fair 
Saturday, February 2, 2002 
Newspaper editors from the state of Indiana will be recruiting students for Full-time employment and internships. A list of newspapers will be sent to The Career Center soon! Students will be able to schedule interviews after January 1, 2002. •Email contact: rees.4@nd.edu 
lv1RTUALI 
Hire Big 10 Plus Consortium Full Time Job Fair 
February 25 -March 8, 2002 
Internship Fair 
February 22 -March 8, 2002 
Hire Big Ten Plus is a consortium of mid west institutions of higher educa­tion including: University of Notre Dame, Michigan State University, Northwestern University, Indiana University, Purdue University, University of Chicago, Illinois University, Iowa University, and the University of Wisconsin. ' 
• 
E-mail contact: svete.l@nd.edu 

• 
www.hirebigIOplus.org



Go,:-~~ 
( •'ff:] 
\. 
... 
~ --~ 
'•v;..,-.: ..:-.....-, .,...=.,,,.,-...,.. 
log on at careercenter.nd.edu 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, December 7, 2001 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Notre Dame, Purdue take different paths after NCAA 6nal 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. 

Thursday night's contest at Mackey Arena was billed as the rematch of last April's NCAA Championship game. Well, the uniforms were the same, just not much 
else. 
If any­thing, this chapter of the Purdue­Notre Dame women's roundball rivalry was 


a contest Noah General Amstadter Sherman and Bob Vila would Sports Editor 
love-a lesson in how to rebuild. And the No. ?-ranked Boilermakers earned the top grade in that category with much more than their 70-57 victory. 
Everyone knows this 2-4 Irish team is far from the squad that lost only two contests all year en route to the national title last year. With Kelley Siemon, Ruth Riley and Niele Ivey gone, the Irish have three new starters and have to replace two All-Americans. 
But the Boilermakers lost 6­

I' I I foot-4 center Camille Cooper ­an honorable mention All­American who more than once outplayed Riley-and two-time first team All-American Katie Douglas. Also gone is Shalicia Hurns, who scored 17 points in the NCM final as a freshman last year, then transferred after the season. 
But while Notre Dame is still struggling to find continuity on the floor and has only defeated ' )I 
' ' Army -Columbia beat Army ­
I 
r: and Valparaiso so far this sea­son, the Purdue is thriving at 5­1 this season with a revamped lineup. 
"I think what you see with this team and our staff is we've worked to maintain and we are maintaining," Purdue coach Kristy Curry said after the game Thursday night. "The minute I took the job I knew it would be the toughest chal­lenge year-in and year-out, to maintain an extremely high level, win the Big Ten title and have a chance to get to the 
Final Four." 
How do the Boilermakers do it? Their roster consists of two seniors, two juniors, five sopho­mores and a freshman. The starting lineup has two seniors, a junior and two sophomores, with freshman Emily Heikes rotating in at center. 
While young, Purdue has experienced leaders on the court at all times. Heikes and Mary Jo Noon combined for 31 points Thursday, a career night for Cooper. while Kelly Komara and Wright more than made up for Douglas' loss with 32 points combined. 
Purdue's upperclassmen are keeping up right where the graduated All-Americans left off. 
In fact, Curry said Komara provided some of the best lead­ership she's ever seen Thursday. 
"Her leadership was absolutely the best leadership of any senior I've had at Purdue tonight on the court," Curry said of her shooting guard. "She was incredible. She stayed calm and composed." 
But Notre Dame still has Ericka Haney and Alicia Ratay, both of whom averaged double­digit points last year. Ratay led the nation in three-point shoot­ing. 
For the Irish on Thursday, lone senior Haney showed signs of breaking out of a season-long slump, scoring eight points, but the starter played only 13 min­utes as the Irish went with a smaller lineup featuring Jeneka Joyce. Ratay led the Irish with 12 points, but couldn't break 
er1ormous 
FLEECE 
Selection1 
5minutes:...::..iiil_..a from CIUTPC,S I Campus ~ 
Cold Weather Experts 
Call 259-1000 for more details 
,. I i, 
ij 
.WINTERJOBS I ENVIRONMENT 
1 
( 
l l 
Ifyou are staying in the South Bend area this winter, The Citizens Action Coalition of Indiana is hiring individuals to staff
) 
i 
Environmental and consumer rights campaigns.
I 
,, 
,>"• 
Citizens Action Coalition is atwenty-five year old citizens lobby organization. 
With 350,000 memben statewide, we routinefy battle the largest utilities and polluters in Indiana on behalf of citizens...and win! Work on issues concerning fair utility rates, acleaner environmen~ cmnpaign finance reform, affordable health care, and economic justice for Indiana's family fanners. 
Work M-F 2-10:30 pm~Earn $350-$425/wk.Work outdoors. Sleep I.ate~alatmosphere...Serious work. 
• ",. 
Call 232N7905 for more information. 
cheeR, us out o~ the world wtde web @www.ettact.org 
past Komara's smothering 
defense and took only 10 shots. 

Sophomore point guard Le'Tania Severe had five points and eight assists, while Joyce added nine. None of those sta• tistics stick out as overly offen­sive, but when the other two players on the court are fresh­men, it passes on a freight­sized load to a pair of 18-year­olds. Noon put it best, speaking about playing against freshmen defenders Jacqueline Batteast and Teresa Borton. 
"They're two ·great post play­ers, very physical and they did a great job," Noon said. "But it's experience. They've played for six or seven games now and I've been here for four years. It just comes down to experience there." 
McGraw looks at each game this year as a learning experi­ence, a chance for the offense to gel, for players to learn their strengths and weaknesses. And the Irish should never have been expected to win tonight, not over a team with Komara and Wright returning, along with sophomore point guard Ericka Valek. 
"We are playing for March and we are just trying to pre­pare our team to get better every game," McGraw said. 
Maybe so, but looking across the court at a team with three new starters and two sopho­mores in the starting lineup, one has to wonder what Purdue is doing that Notre Dame isn't. 
Contact Noah Amstadter at amstadter. l@nd.edu. The views of this column are those ofthe author and are not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

summer Service Progran1 
Do you want to work with young people this summer? 
Do you want to stay on campus and make $1,500 for six weeks of work? 
If you like kids, sports, and working outdoors, then the National Youth Sports Program is for you! 
n
NYSP. 

The National Youth Sports Program, (NYSP), is a sports and enrichment summer 
program serving 10-16 year-old students from economically disadvantaged backgrounds on the campus of the University of Notre Dame. Camp runs June 24-July 26, Monday­Friday, from 8:00-2:30, with the addition of Saturday, July 6 th to make up for the 4 th of July holiday. We also hold a staff training week from June 17th-21 st• Our camp features 
basketball, soccer, softball, swimming, golf, and other sports combined with drug and alcohol prevention, computer, and self esteem/life skills programs. 
We need you. The NYSP is looking to hire 25+ undergraduate or graduate students from all backgrounds to be role-models and leaders for the summer as project aids. Those students selected as aids will act as camp counselors leading their team of 12-15 campers throughout the five-week program. This summer service project pays $1,500 for the six­week experience and will result in a ND theology credit through the Center for Social 
Concerns. 

Ifyou are interested, pick up an application in the Center for Social Concerns. If you have any additional questions, call Pam or Ryan at 631-6614. 
Friday, December 7, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
Women 
continued from page 24 
Although Noon had seven defensive boards during her 24 minutes of play, she didn't win the game alone. Starting guards Kelly Komara and Shereka Wright did their part to break double-team coverage on offense and contain Notre Dame's leading scorer Alicia Ratay, who scored five less than her 17 point average. 
"I thought the biggest key tonight ... is her teammates stepping in to posi­tion to get the setup," Curry said. "[They] read the double team ... I thought our kids did a good job." 
In addition to getting help from her teammates, Noon also got help from Notre Dame fouls. Noon stepped to the free-throw line nine times during the course of a game in which the Irish had 23 total team fouls. The Boilermakers scored 19 points on 29 attempts from the foul line, including nine points by Wright. 
"They beat us on the free-throw line," Irish head coach Muffet McGraw said. "I don't know how many they made in terms of their field goals, if we could quit fouling we'd be a very good defensive team." 
Despite the 13-point loss, the Irish squad that was burned by the Michigan Wolverines on Sunday showed marked improvement. Although the Irish still struggled offensively. Notre Dame bested Sunday's shooting percentage, 42.6 percent as compared to 37. and played a consistent 2-3 defense, rather than the three defenses they tried in the first half alone against Michigan. 
"We 're making great strides," McGraw said. " ... One of our goals was just to come out and play hard for 40 minutes and I thought we did that ... Overall we showed great 
NELLIE WILLIAMSfrhe Observer 
Notre Dame junior guard Alicia Ratay drives around a Purdue defender Wednesday night. Ratay finished with 12 points. 
improvement from the Michigan game." 
The Irish hung with the Boilermakers for the opening 20 min­utes of the game, only trailing by seven at the half. They rebounded from an early six-point deficit and managed to get within one, 19-18, on a three-point shot by Janeka Joyce, before falling behind by eight. 
Thanks to a solid defensive effort by the Boilermakers, Purdue pulled away in the second half. After closing the gap to five, the Irish fell farther and farther behind. trailing by as much as 20 in the final minutes of the game. 
The Boilermakers' solid perimeter defense contained the outside shot and forced the Irish inside, where they've had trouble this season. Ratay only landed one three-pointer. 
"I didn't see any improvement [on low post offense]," McGraw said. 
But a trey from Ratay, a field goal from Katie Flecky and two foul shots by point guard Le'Tania Severe closed the score to the final 70-53, 
Batteast added 10 points to Ratay's 12 and Joyce came off the bench to score nine for the Irish. 
Although the Irish had better rebounding statistics, no Irish player hit double digits on boards. 
The Irish will have two days off before taking on the Trojans of Southern Cal on Sunday afternoon at home. 
Note: 

. On her final shot of the game, Ratay scored her 1,000th career point, becoming the 19th player in Irish history to reach the 1,000..point mark. Ratay now has a career total of 1002 points. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 
Men 

continued from page 24 
valiant effort," said Brey. "We've just got to get 
him healthy." 
Although he scored 23 points and grabbed 12 
rebounds, Humphrey said he could tell that the 
injury was affecting him. Not only was it harder 
for him to jump, he said, but he felt winded 
because he hadn't been practicing. 
"There were a couple times where I felt I didn't have my jumping ability," he said. "There were a couple times where I laid it up. Usually I would dunk it. I was playing on emo­tion and will." 
Saturday is the third game this season Humphrey will sit out. He did not play against New Hampshire and Cornell in order to serve an NCAA suspension. 
With Humphrey out for at least the next two games -Miami of Ohio on Saturday and Canisius on Dec. 22 -the Irish will probably start Jere Macura. Jordan Cornette will also see significant minutes off the bench. Both players have played early in the season, but Macura only logged five minutes of playing time against the Hoosiers and Cornette never played. 
"It's not complete foreign territory because we've done this before early in the season," said Brey. " ... Even though they didn't get long minutes against Indiana, they have played long minutes." 
Brey is anxious to see how the Irish bounce back from their first loss of the season, espe­cially against the Red Hawks. The 7-1 Irish are playing the last of a four-game series against Miami of Ohio on Saturday. In the past three years, the Irish lost all three games, with the closest loss being a nine-point game last sea­son. 
"Here's a program that has just dominated us for the last three years." Brey said. "They're very confident against us no matter what their record is. It's a great test for our character again, going into a tough place and trying to win without our guy. No one is playing better than Ryan Humphrey right now." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 

page 18 
WOMEN'S HOCKEY 
Club team takes ice for first time 
By KATIE HUGHES 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Senior Stacie Green has been ready to take a women's hockey team to the Joyce Center since her freshman year. Saturday. she'll finally get her chance, as the Notre Dame women's hockey team hits the ice for the first time Saturday at 7:30 p.m. against the Bowling Green Falcons. 
After six weeks of 7:30 a.m. practices and paying for their ice time and other expenses, Green expects the Irish to be competi­tive. 
"I think we're unbelievable for a first year team," said Green. "I think we'11 be able to compete on the highest level." ­
The Falcons are also a club team, and belong to the Central Women's Collegiate Hockey Association. Also on the schedule for the Irish in their inaugural season will be other women's club teams from Western Michigan, Ohio State, Maryland, Lake Superior State, and Michigan State. BGSU beat Ohio State's club team, but lost to Michigan State's club team. 
Early next semester, Notre Dame will take on the Valparaiso men's hockey team, who they ended up scheduling by accident. but decided to keep on the· schedule. 
"They called the ice rink to ask for ice time, the manager of ice rink thought it was womens team," said Green. 
Leading the Irish will be Green, as well as law student Rebecca Mccurdy and goalie Ellen Block. Sophomore Emmy Venechuk will be key on the defense, while Colleen Bell, who normally plays defense, will be important on offense against the Falcons. 
"The team is so excited about it," said Bell. "A lot of us thought there wasn't much of an oppor­tunity for girls to play together in this kind of a team atmostphere." 
Coincidentally, five of the 17 members of the team live in Farley. All but two have had lots of experience playing in high school, either with women's or men's teams. 
"My dad played, and my mom is from upstate New York, so hockey was kind of a way of life for them," said Bell. "I was one of those kids who was in skates before I was in shoes. I started playing in 5th grade." 
Green and Mccurdy were the driving force behind creating a women's hockey team at Notre Dame, navigating the often frus­trating process of getting through the red tape to get approvals from RecSports and Student Activities. Mccurdy had played with a women's club team in town last year, and played for Michigan State's women's team as an undergrad­uate. 
"We generated a lot of interest, though a lot of that went away with the 7:30 practices," said Green. "But we ended up with a group of 17 very committed peo­ple who are up at 7 in the JACC practicing, and I think that's great." 
The Irish are coached by two Notre Dame students who have also been making the trek to the Joyce Center at sunrise, Tim Ryan and Matt Landaal. 
"They've done a great job in getting us prepared for the game," said Green. "I honestly think we can give most teams a good run right now ... I think it's gonna be a really good game." 
Contact Katie Hughes at khughes@nd.edu. 


i, 
( 
1; 



Friday, December 7, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Alabama cuts 15 scholarships 
. NCAA could accept self­punishments or impose more 
Associated Press 

TUSCALOOSA, Ala. 
Alabama wilJ cut 15 football 
scholarships over the next 
three years in resp.onse to 
NCAA charges of rules viola­
tions. 

The university also said it 
had severed ties with three 
athletic boosters accused of 
offering money to high school 
stars and would cut back on 
recruiting. The school said it 
will not give up a postseason 
bowl or televised game. 

The self-imposed sanctions 
were part of Alabama's 7 50­
page response to the NCAA. 

The documents showed the 
university admitted to some 
key violations -including that 
an athletic representative 
made "substantial cash pay­
ments" to a high school recruit 
in the mid-'90s. 

But the university disagreed 
with other allegations, and it 
pointed the finger at rival 
Auburn for turning in the 
Crimson Tide five years ago on 
an alleged violation. 

The documents were in 
response to 11 major charges 
and five minor charges leveled 
against the university by the 
NCAA. 

The NCAA is expected to impose penalties on its own in January or February. The sanctioning organization could accept Alabama's self-imposed punishments in whole or in part or impose other, harsher measures. 
The university appeared before the NCAA Committee on Infractions on Nov. 17 in Indianapolis. 
The NCAA began investigat­ing Alabama in April of 2000 for alleged violations that occurred mostly under former coach Mike DuBose. 
Many of the charges involved three boosters, four players and recruiting under DuBose and Gene Stallings, neither of whom was charged with wrongdoing. 
The NCAA allegations also do not involve new Crimson Tide coach Dennis Franchione and his staff. 
The university removed key names from the documents before making them public. But some of the situations described in the papers matched previous media reports on the allegations, making it possible in some cases to identify players and other people involved. 
The player acknowledged by the university as receiving cash to sign at Alabama apparently was Kenny Smith of Stevenson. One of the three men barred from the program, car dealer Wendell Smith of Chattanooga, Tenn.. has pub­licly admitted giving Smith $20,000 in the mid-1990s. Wendell Smith has denied being an Alabama booster. 
The university argued it should not be punished for those violations because they occurred outside the NCAA's four-year statute of limita­tions. 
Alabama said Auburn offi­cials gave the NCAA informa­tion about the violations in 1996. but the NCAA did not notify the university of the charges before sending the preliminary letter of inquiry. 


Please Hel 


Michelle Tarnowski, a young woman from the local community, has been 1nissing since November 15th. Her family has asked the University to assist in their national search to find Michelle. 
The Tarnowski family has created posters with information about Michelle's disappearance. They ask that ·you take three posters home with you over break, and then post the fliers in your hometown. 
If you are willing to assist the Tamowskis in trying to locate Michelle, you can pick up posters at the LaFortune Information Desk from December 7th through December 19th. 
Friday, December 7, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
MEN'S HOCKEY 
Irish hope to move up in CCHA against Falcons 

ByMAITORENCHUK 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team will look to continue its win­ning ways this weekend when the Irish travel to Ohio to take on the Bowling Green Falcons. 
Last weekend the Irish com­pleted their first sweep of the 2001-02 season with two victo­ries against the Lake Superior State Lakers. The 7 -0 victory last Saturday was the first shutout for Notre Dame since a 1-0 win against Michigan State on Dec. 4, 1999. The shutout was also the first in a Notre Dame uniform for freshman goalie Morgan Cey. 
After going 0-4-2 in their first six games of the 2001-02 campaign, the Irish have turned around their season. Since then Notre Dame has gone 4-2-3 and the Irish are in sixth place in the CCHA. 
The Irish success of late has 
come from solid all-around 
play. Offensively the emer­
gence of Michael Chin has real­
ly opened up the offense. When 
the season began, Irish coach 
Dave Poulin had one reliable 
line that consisted of Aaron 
Gill, Connor Dunlop and Dave 
Inman. However, Chin has 
really found his touch as of 
late, and has a seven-game 
points streak coming into this 
weekend. 
With Chin scoring more. Poulin was able to be more flexible in making his lines. This past weekend Poulin had Inman, Chin and sophomore Rob Globke on one line with Dunlop, Gill and freshman Alex Lalonde on the other. The move worked incredibly well, as Notre Dame ended up scor­ing 12 goals on the weekend. 
"Early in the season I was playing [Chin] on a limited role," said Poulin. "Then I came to him during Thanksgiving and asked him if he thought he could produce on a regular basis. He said he was ready." 
Defense and special teams have also contributed to Notre Dame's winning ways. This past weekend the Irish defense held Lake Superior State score­less for the first 102 minutes and 22 seconds of the series. In the first period of this past Sunday's game the Irish held the Lakers to just two shots on goal. 
Special teams have also been stellar. The Irish took 15 penalties against Lake Superior State. and killed them all. All of this has culminated with Notre Dame captain Evan Nielsen being named CCHA defensive player of the week. 
This weekend Notre Dame will look to continue their win­ning against 10th place Bowling Green. But that statis­tic can be misleading, since the Falcons are just three points behind the Irish. 
Notre Dame is used to close battles with the Falcons. Last year Bowling Green's win on the last day of the regular sea­son, coupled with Notre Dame's loss knocked the Irish out of the last CCHA playoff spot. 
The Irish must be wary of Bowling Green senior Greg Day. He is the Falcons' top scorer and is currently tied with Notre Dame's David Inman for second in power play .goals in the CCHA. Goaltender Tyler Masters leads the Falcons defense, and sports 
a .904 save percentage in 13 games this year for Bowling Green. 
The Irish look to continue their winning streak and ·move up in the CCHA standings. The puck drops tonight at 7:05 p.m. 
Contact Matt Orenchuk at morenchu@nd.edu. 



page 20 Friday, December 7, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS 

SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles face top teams at Wheaton Invite 

iI . 
"Right now it hasn't even
By JOE HETTLER
I 
been Xs and Os much, our 
Sports Writer 
attitude and our team chem­
I 
I istry has been pretty awful,"
I After a lackluster perfor­said Smith. "So we're just mance that resulted in a 73-really stressing coming in with 
54 loss to Goshen College on a good attitude." Wednesday, the Saint Mary's Senior guard Elizabeth basketball team travels to 
Linkous thinks this weekend 
Wheaton College this weekend will show the Belles how far to play in the ·wheaton they have come and how Invitational Tournament and much more they need to face some of the top teams in improve.
the nation. "I think [this weekend] is a 
In their opening game on really great opportunity for Friday, the Belles match up us , " said Linkous . ''Just to against the host team, show where we're at this sea­Wheaton College who is son and kind of like a reality
ranked 30th in the country. If check." the Belles win that game, they Linkous also believes that will likely face the No. 1 team team cohesion is important for 
in Division Ill, Washington the Belles to be successful this 
University in St. Louis on weekend. Saturday for the champi­"We really need to playonship. Washington has won together as a team," said the Division III national cham­Linkous. "[We need to] focus 
pionship in each of the past on our goals. We have a set of four seasons. about 20 goals and we [want]But if the Belles expect to to meet those goals and if we win any games this weekend meet those goals, we should
. ,, .
they must play better as a wm. team, according to head coach After their poor play on Suzanne Smith. Wednesday, Smith wants her 
"If we play anything like the team to forget their loss and way we did last night, we'll focus on having a solid tour­get beat by 50 points," said nament. Smith. "We better be ready to "We just need to in
come roll [this weekend]." tomorrow and play togetherSmith also said that the and be ready to go," said 
Belles have not played well as Smith. a team and until that hap­pens, they will continue to struggle against tough compe­Contact Joe Hettler at tition. jhettler@nd.edu. 
x 
I 

The Observer's 35th Anniversary Reunion 


April 20, 2002 
South Bend Marriott 
email obsreunion@hotmail.com for more information 



-

Friday, December 7, 2001 page 21
The Observer . SPORTS 
FOOTBALL 
Weaver, 6 others, named to All-Independent team 

DUFFY-MARIE ARNOULT/The Observer Senior defensive end Anthony Weaver rushes USC quarterback Carson Palmer. Weaver was named a second team All-American by ABC Sports Online. 
APARTMENTS 
Clevelt111d and Ironwood Roads//80// Cleveland Roa,!/ South Bend Indiana -166371 (2/9)272-8110 
New Castle Point Select Units Available for ·Next Semester 
*Within 1ninutes ofcatnpus* 
• 
Renovated, spacious one and two bedroom apartments, some with lofts and dens 

• 
Includes membership in the new Castle Point Racquet Club and Fitness Center 


Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame senior Anthony 
Weaver earned second-team 
All-America honors today 
from ABC Sports Online. 
Weaver and six of his 
teammates were named to 
the 2001 collegefootball­
news .com all-independent 
team. Senior linebackers 
Tyreo Harrison and Rocky 
Boiman, senior offensive 
linemen Jordan Black and 
Kurt Vallers, junior center 
Jeff Faine and junior kick 
returner Julius Jones were 
named to the team. 
Weaver was the leader of 
the Irish defense all season. 
A '01 captain, the defensive 
end from Saratoga Springs, 
N. Y., finished third on the Irish in tackles with 59, including 21 for loss and seven sacks. 
Weaver, who collegefoot­ballnews.com ranked as the third-best independent play­er in the country, also had an interception, three pass deflections and three forced fumbles on the year, leading an Irish defense that ranked 13th in total defense and 22nd nationally in scoring defense. A Lombardi Award candidate at the beginning of '01, Weaver earned honor­able mention All-American by Football News. 
Harris on , from SuIp h u r Springs, Texas, was a force in the middle for the Irish in 2001. The linebacker led the Irish with 97 tackles in '01, including a team-leading and career-high 15 versus Stanford (including 10 solos). 
Harrison, who collegefoot­ballnews.com ranked as the fifth best independent player in '01, recorded double-digit tackles in four games this season and was the leading Irish tackler in eight games. Harrison's 97 tackles were the most for an Irish defen­sive player since A' Jani Sanders had 91 at the con­clusion of the 1999 season. Harrison was named an hon­orable mention All-American by Football News. 
Don~t miss Toys and TalesI Extended deadline tbrouob December I21bJ 

• 

..
•
J~ 


Help brit1g sorne Christmas cheer to the childret1 from the Cct1ter for the Homeless, La Casa de Am istad, El Bueti Vccit]o, ar1d Hope r~escc1e Missiot1. Please purchase a toy ~t1d c1 book. (preferably related to one another) and deposit therrJ (ur1wrapped) it1 the marked boxes loce1ted in your dorm before the deadlit1e ofDecember 9th. 
For more information, email Bo Rottenborn at Rottenborn.2@nd.edu \~ Sponsored by Notre Daine Circle K, 1neetings Sundays at Spin in the Library auditorium. · 
Black, from Rowlett, Texas, 
started all 11 games at either 
left tackle or right guard for 
the Irish in 2001. Black was 
third on the Irish in minutes 
played at 277:57, and was 
named a preseason honor­
able mention all-independent 
team member by Football 
News. 
Black was ranked eighth 
among independent players 
for the 2001 season by col­
le gefo otballnews.com and 
was an all•independent team 
selection by Football News. 
Boiman, who fought a foot 
injury most of the season, 
played all 11 games for the 
Irish in 2001. The Cincinnati, 
Ohio, native and co-captain 
ranked sixth on the Irish 
with 41 tackles, including 10 
for loss, three sacks and two 
fumble recoveries. Boiman 
was also a member of the 
Football News all-indepen­
dent team. 
Vollers, from Whittier, 
Calif., started all 11 games 
for the Irish in '01. Ranked 
as the 25th-best independent 
player by collegefootball­
news.com, Vollers played 
264:36 minutes in '01. 
Faine, a center from Sanford, Fla., was Notre Dame's leader in the trench­es in 2001, protecting young quarterbacks Carlyle Holiday and Matt Lovecchio. Ranked as the third-best center nationally by Lindy's before the start of the 2001 season, Faine led the Irish in minutes played with 314:17 and started all 11 games. 
Faine, who ranked as the ninth best independent play­er in 2001 according to col­legefootballnews.com was also the lead blocker for the Irish rushing attack, which ranked 30th in the nation this season. Faine was an honorable mention All­America selection by Football News. 
Jones, a tailback from Big Stone Gap, Ga .. averaged 
22.5 yards per kick return this season, ranking 55th in the country. He also aver­aged 10.7 yards per punt return, good for 37th nation­ally and ranked 32nd nation­ally in all-purpose yards at 
124.73 a game. 
Hampered by injuries all season, Jones still finished as Notre Dame's leading rusher with 718 yards and seven touchdowns in '01. Jones ranked 13th among all inde­pendent players in college­footballnews.com's list of the top 30 independent players. 
Other Irish players who made the list include Holiday (18th). senior split end Javin Hunter (29th) and sopho­more cornerback Vontez Duff (30th). 

only qt 
S.minute~~ {!om CIUTiD0¦ I Campi,s ~ 
Cold Weather Experts 
Call 259--1000 for more details 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, December 7, 200 I 
SWIMMING 

Irish teams julllp out to early lead at Invite 
won the event in 1:54.27. Junior divers
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
Andy Maggio and Tony Xie combined to 
Sports Writer 
take the two top spots in the 3-meter diving, finishing with 487.10 and 429.40 
In a meet considered to be the "final points respectively. exam" for the men's and women's On the women's scoreboard, the Irish swimming and diving teams, both outdistanced closest competitor appear to be passing on day one of the University of Connecticut by more than Notre Dame Invitational. 200 points. 
Notre Dame's squads easily claimed And even though there were six teams first place standings in the meet at the competing against the Irish, looking at conclusion of Thursday night finals. the 200-yard individual medley, it The Irish men lead the meet with 729 appeared there were only two teams in points, and the women with 794. the meet. Irish swimmers claimed the 
The men will keep their eyes on top six positions in the event, leaving_ Oakland for the remainder of the meet, two UConn swimmers chasing them in which sits in second with 597 .50 points. the outside lanes. 
"Oakland's a really solid team, and Sophomore Marie Labosky won the it's always been really tight with them," event in 2:05.72. Junior Amy Deger,said senior co-captain Jonathan Pierce. sophomore Lisa Garcia, senior Maureen "But I think we'll be able to take control Hillenmeyer, freshman Brooke Taylorof the meet in the next four sessions." and sophomore Laurie Musgrave round­
While the Irish claimed four of five ed out second through sixth places. 
individual events, Oakland swimmers Senior Carrie Nixon claimed the 50-Notre Dame's Allison Lloyd competes in the breastroke during the Notre Dame chased Notre Dame's to most of their yard freestyle in 22.35, and sophomore Invitational. victories. Earning a win in the 200-yard diver Meghan Perry-Eaton won the 
rest for the competition. 
freestyle relay and second place finishes women's 1-meter diving with 290 "One thing about having a good
in the 500-yard freestyle, 50-yard points. 
fall season ... you get complacent
freestyle and 400-yard medley relay, But even as they maintain the top in terms of thinking you're auto­Oakland didn't let Notre Dame get out position in the meet. there is room for matically going to swim fast," saidof reaching distance. improvement, said co-captain Maureen women's head coach Bailey"They're a powerful team," said Irish Hillenmeyer. 
Weathers. "We're swimming likehead coach Tim Welsh. "It's very simple "It wasn't as fast as the Minnesota 
we expected, and winning the 
-we have to swim fast. If we swim meet," Hillenmeyer said. "We've been races we need to win. It's a tough j fast, the scoreboard will take care of practicing before each session ... but the week academically." ·,i itself." times we're going are still pretty fast." 
Both teams will continue compe­Individual winners for the Irish Coming off a victory two weeks ago at tition today and tomorrow with tri­
included Pierce, who won the 500-yard the Minnesota Invitational, the women's als at 10:30 a.m. and finals at 6:30freestyle in 4 minutes, 32.99 seconds. team is maintaining regular training 
p.m. at Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
Pierce also earned a second place finish sessions throughout the Invitational this in the 200-yard individual medley, fol­weekend, even though many of the 
Contact Noreen Gillespie at 
lowing freshman David Moisan. who teams backed off regular training to gil10843@saintmarys.edu. 


Tuesday December 11th 

' ~,ii~ 

Dance Party
', 
-, ~ 
The
, ' 
. ' 
$5 Cover 

with 2Full Cash Bars 
DJ Uncle A-ron A!! ages welcome"

Downstairs Joe 9:00-1 0:00pm Doors open at 8:30pm 
20th Floor Holiday Inn/City Center Downtown South Bend 
Free parking in garage off Washington Street. 
Tickets available at door...for special advance deals contact: APTproductions@email.com 
*Must be 21 with a valid ID to drink at bar. 




friday, December 7, 2001 page 23 
The Observer . TODAY 
RYAN

FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNINGHAM 




BILL AMEND 
So IS A SOOY BUILDING STYRo­IS So MUCH 

~6 Svck-S. C~rJl'V\o..S o.J 'M.1 b,,i\Je.~ J.re ~ha
o'\ ~NIB 

Jc..'\ ~ r o..J'I .jet orie SilJ II r fre.5~t-$. 
;;. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 27 MBuona " 57 Fort Erie's 
1 "The House of (Italian greeting) home: Abbr. the Seven 28 Trauma 58 Follow Gables" girl aftereffects 60 Western wear 
7 Consequence 30 Harp seal's lack 62 It has a snow 13 Part of an AOL 
31 Garden item ring near its bottom

screen• 33 Straphanger 63 Descendant of 
14 MSextette" was 35 Benefit 
Mohammed

her last film 36 First of the 64 Like the Ganges,
16 Like New York's 49-Across to hit to HindusWaldorf-Astoria 500 home runs 65 Apollo 12 17 Manners 37 Grills 
astronaut 18 Sound from a 41 Arab League bowl 
member 
DOWN
45 Oscar winner 19 "Ocean's 1 ShowoffPaquinEleven" cast 2 "Hello"

members 46 Dismay 3 Timeworn 21 Clamor 48 Where the 4 "I Hated, Hated, Maran6n flows
22 Words of Hated This 
explanation 49 See 36-Across Movie" author 51 lnits. at sea
24 Article of the 5 City south of Constitution that 52 Southwest sites West Palm defines treason 53 Lonely outlook 6 Rare plants 25 Hard work 54 In a caustic way 7 Vitiates 8 Foreign noun designation:
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
Abbr. 

9 Crescendos Puzzle by Pet. Gordon _..,........ .....,..,...+,,..+-,,,.,t 10 Part ·of M.Y.O.B. 
32 Singer Phair 44 Mount Godwin 55 Artist Thomas 
--+-+......,..,.........,,....,,,.... 11 One who's 

34 Modern gas _, founder of usually fair 
station feature the Hudson
47 Symbol of 
12 Draftsman's tool River School 
37 Company whose electric flux 
i-..+,,,....,.-1 ,13 Member of a 

56-Down is a 56 See 37-Down 
Roman Catholic 50 Flavor
jumping animal 
order 59 Cash bars? 
52 Insulation
38 Releases
15 Flybelt fly material 61 Authorized
39 Subject of
20 ·Lo's Diary" Mach's principle 

~~'!"I author Pera 40 Rejected Answers to any three clues in this puzzle
23 Three-time New are available by touch-tone phone:

York City 41 Ambush 
1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute).
Marathon winner 42 Basutoland, now --a._..,_,..._...,_..,__..,__. 26 Came unglued Annual subscriptions are available for the
43 Language family .....,...., ..... .....,.....,......,,,,.. 28 Top of a platter that includes best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 __.,__,_.....__...._.......,....... 29 Sot spot Kurdish years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year D Enclosed is $50 for one semester Name. _______________________ Address -------------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): THIS DAY: Julie Andrews, Mark Your practical approach will McGwire, Randy Quaid, Jimmy charm an observer. Be sure to Carter, Stella Stevens express interest if you want the 
Happy Birthday: You will relationship to progress. Overdue have great innovative ideas and changes to your position or your drive, but you may also make home may cause stress. 000 
snap decisions, which could lead LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Put to later regrets. You will be sensi­your efforts into professional tive to romantic issues and should changes and gains. You will put time aside to nurture your receive recognition for a job well relationship. Your numbers: 6, 7, done if you put in some overtime. 10, 22, 26, 42 Exercise discipline in controlling 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): bad habits. 000 Play by the rules but don't hesitate SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): to accept help. You don't have to You will be highly entertaining. do everything by yourself. This is Your intellect and charm will win a great day to network with peo­hearts and bring opportunities ple who have similar interests and that you least expect. Enjoy your­
more experience. 000 self and the people you meet. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 00000 Social events will lead to interest­SAGlTIARIUS (NO\t 22-Dec Z1): ing romantic connections. Your Things are hectic at home and 
charm will be captivating. Have emotions will be flying high. Fam­fun changing your image and ily members will be irresponsible, sprucing up your wardrobe. Chil­so don't count on help. Take care dren play an important role. of necessary chores and then do 0000 things that please you. 00 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
.Some overtime will help you get a You can continue to make finan­head-start on work and use up the cial gains if you ca.11 a few people nervous energy left over from the who can help with personal 
weekend. If you don't, emotional investments. Your sensitivity difficulties may develop between toward loved ones will capture you and a loved one. 00 their hearts. 0000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Finish up any correspondence New emotional connections can 
early. This is a great day to reflect be made through the groups you on your present direction and join. Lighten up and have some make decisions about your profes­fun. You should be aligning your­
sional options. Education may be self with an organization that is the answer. 00000 entertaining as well as productive. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Focus 000 on investments as well as spend­PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): ing habits. It's OK to be generous Travel will bring new contacts and 
but not to a fault. Sudden changes beneficial results. Your ability to in your relationship may throw express yourself creatively will you for a loop but will ultimately attract business and personal part­be to your benefit. 000 nerships. 000 
Birthday Baby: Your intuitio~ ~~ws you ~ tune in~o the thoughts and feelings of others. You are disciplined, loving and will stop at noth­ing to reach your goals. . (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadv1ce.com, eugenialaslcom, astromate.com.) 
Cl 2001 Univer.ial Press Syndicate 

-
O
THE 

Campus Sports BSERVER Campus Sports 
. 
Swimming, p. 22 . Men's Hockey, p. 19 

. 
Football, p. 21 . Women's Hockey, p. 18 

. 
SMC Basketball, p. 20 



Friday, December 7, 2001 

FOOTBALL 


Gruden pulls name from consideration 
• Agent reportedly said Gruden spoke with Irish officials 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Associate Sports Editor 
Oakland Raiders head coach Jon Gruden pulled his name out of the running for the Notre Dame head coaching vacancy Thursday morning. 
"In fairness to our players and coaches, and the way we want to finish up this season, I don't want any more speculation," Gruden told ESPN's Chris Mortensen. "No matter what anybody thinks, I want to finish my job here and see what happens in the future." 

Gruden was the fan favorite to replace former head football coach Bob Davie, who was fired Sunday. His connections to South Bend, success in the NFL and his charismatic personality made him a popular choice among stu­dents. 
According to a report on CNNSI.com, Gruden's agent, Bob LaMonte, said Gruden had spo­ken with Notre Dame but ulti­mately decided to remain with the Raiders because he felt it would be unfair to leave Oakland in the middle of a playoff race. 
"Jon Gruden, after a great deal of soul searching, has asked that his name be removed," LaMonte, told USA Today. "At this time, he must honor the commitment he has made to his players and the Oakland Raiders." 
Stanford head coach Tyrone Willingham has been contacted by Notre Dame, but Stanford's· media relations department would not say whether or not Notre Dame athletic director Kevin White had interviewed Willingham. 
"The only thing I can confirm at this time is that permission has been granted for Coach Willingham to speak to Notre Dame if he wishes," Stanford assistant athletic director Gary Migdol said. 
Migdol added that because Willingham's name has come up for so many jobs in recent years, "we don't get into any other speculation, rumors, innuendo regarding job searches." 
Even as names are dropped and added by the media to the list of possible coaching replace­ments, White said Sunday he already has a pre-determined list of candidates. And he has said that he will not release informa­tion to the media until he is ready. 
"You always have a short list," he said Sunday afternoon. "I think [athletic directors] who have done this over time and have had any success, that tends to be how they operate. So you know; there are always people that you are kind of paying atten­tion to and so forth." 
An assistant athletic director told quarterback recruit Chris Olsen on Monday that a new head coach would be hired with-


WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Noon's finest hour 
• Purdue center dominates play as Boilermakers beat Irish in NCAA Final rematch 
By KATIE McVOY Associate Sports Editor 
WEST 1AYFAYETTE, Ind. 
During last year's national champi­onship game, Purdue's Mary Jo Noon wasn't in the spotlight. She played only three minutes and missed the only shot she took, spending most of her time on the bench due to an ACL injury. 
But on Thursday night, in front of nearly 9,000 fans, she stole the show. 
During Purdue's 70-57 victory against Notre Dame, Noon scored a career-high 21 points and grabbed 13 rebounds in her best performance · of the season. 
"I thought she See Also played hard, hard, "Notre Dame, hard tonight," said 
Purdue take
Purdue head coach Kristy Curry. " ... I different paths 
-thought she took it to 
aher NCAA 
a whole new level 
final"
tonight." 
The Irish couldn't page 16 contain the 6-5 Senior who outsized Notre Dame centers Amanda Barksdale and Teresa Borton and her presence alone caused a problem. Her size alone set her apart. 
"I've never played against someone who was as tall; if not as wide as she is," said freshman forward Jackie Batteast. "So it was difficult to get around." 
Noon scored off the opening tip-off and grabbed six of the Boilermaker's first eight points as they took an early 8­2 lead. In the course of the game, she grabbed six offensive rebounds and five points from the foul line. 
see WOMEN/page 17 


in 10 days. Today is the sixth day since Davie's firing. 
White had not said when he expects to name Davie's succes­sor, only that it was important to do so as soon as possible while making sure a quality candidate was hired. 
"We are not going to move at a pace that would deprive us from hopefully securing the very best coach possible for this position," White said. "So we are going to move quickly, but hopefully not too quickly. We are going to do a thorough national search and • take a look at people that we think make a whole lot of sense for Notre Dame." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Humphrey out with leg injury 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Associate Sports Editor 

If the Irish hope to bounce back from their first loss of the season, they'll have to do it with­out Ryan Humphrey. 
The senior forward will miss Saturday's game against Miami of Ohio with a leg injury and is not expected to play until after Christmas, Notre Dame head coach Mike Brey said. 
"It's showing the signs of a stress fracture," Brey said. "It's not technically a stress fracture, but that's a dangerous area. Our attitude is we need to shut him down until after Christmas and look at him again in three weeks. He just needs to stay off that thing." 
Tests revealed Humphrey ha.s a stress reaction in his left leg. A stress reaction is not as serious as a stress fracture. However, if untreated, stress reactions often lead to stress fractures. 
Humphrey said he first felt the injury during the team's Thanksgiving trip in Hawaii, but he dismissed it as normal wear­and-tear of the season. While Humphrey played significant minutes in Notre Dame's games against DePaul and Indiana, he hadn't practiced since Thanksgiving. 
"I was in pain," he said. "It's been hurting, it hurts when I walk, and I thought I could play through it." 
"He's playing hurt, and it's a 
see MEN/page 17 
. ND Swimming, Notre Dame Invitational, Today 
OBSERVER 
. Men's Basketball at Miami of Ohio, Saturday, 3:00 p.m.
SPORTS 

ontine 
. Men's Hockey at Bowling Green, Saturday, 7:05 p.m.AT AGLANCE . Women's Basketball vs. USC, Sunday, 1:00 p.m. http://www.nd.edu/~ohserver 




