

Why did you give up meat? 
The forgotten athletes 
Friday
So you gave up chocolate. desserts or even 
Who are the athletes beyond basketball, football 
gossiping for the Lenten season, but why do 
and soccer? They are looked over most ofthe 
Catholics do that anyway? 
time. but not this Saturday. 
APRIL 6, 2001
Scene . page 10-11 
Viewpoint . page 9 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 118 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



ExperiDlental Dlajor stands tiD1eless 
. PLS celebrates SO years of Great Books at Notre Dame 
By TIM LOGAN Senior Staff Writer 
It began as a bold experi­
ment. 
Small, discussion-oriented 
classes. Readings based on 
renowned literature, not text­
books. Generalized educa­
tion. 
These

See Also 
things were "Crosson far from 
the norm in 
recreates great American authors" h i g h e r page 6 learning in the 1940s and 1950s, and many scholars were skeptical of them. But they were the pillars on which the Program of Liberal Studies 
[PLS] were built. 
Fifty years later, as PLS cel­ebrates is silver anniversary. the Program is still strong, and much of academia has come to share its emphasis on reading and discussion, at least at some level. 
But PLS is still unique. 
"It was. and still is, differ­ent." said F. Clark Power, chair of the Program. It is dif­ferent in that its students learn philosophy and psychol­ogy, mathematics and litera­ture, all by reading, and dis­cussing, original texts about the subjects in a rigorous series of courses stretching over three years. 
From the beginning. PLS 
has been focused on reading 
and discussion, and, today, 
that style of teaching may not 
seem unusual. But in 1950, 
when Father John 
Cavanaugh, who was then 
University president, and pro­
fessor Otto Bird collaborated 
to found the Program, it was 
unusual indeed. 
It was a time when lectures reigned supreme in the acad­emy. Professors stood before a podium and unloaded on a captive audience their accu­mulated knowledge on their subject of mastery. Undergraduates supplement­ed these lectures with read­ings from a textbook written by their professor. or some­one like him, who had read and understood the great texts at the heart of his sub­ject, and who was passing that understanding along in digestible form. There was little exposure to the great texts themselves, and even less discussion of them. 
This began to change, on a small scale, in the 1930s. That was when a handful of humanities professors at pro­gressive schools like Columbia University and the University of Chicago, started having their students read some of the classic texts and discuss them in seminar classes. Their classes focused on the Great Books, timeless works of unparalleled wis­dom and significance. like Plato's "Republic" and James Joyce's "Ulysses." An educa­tion built around the reading and discussion of Great 



The Great Books move­ment came to Notre Dame in 1949, when then-president Cavanaugh invited Bird, a Great Books scholar, to the University to start a General Program of Liberal Studies. When it opened in 1950, the Program demanded four years and required the study of several languages and a host of academic fields. It also demanded a high facul­ty-to-student ratio and the 
photos by: KYLIE CARTER 
see Pl.SIpage 4 



Right to Life conference returns to ND, SMC campuses 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
News Writer 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Right to Life clubs are gearing up for their second annual Pro-Life Collegiate Conference, "Our Duty to Serve, Our Call to Lead," to take place this weekend. 
The theme of this year's conference, identical to last year's, explores the dual­concept of being opposed to abortion. 
"Being pro-life is actually a type of ser­vice. You're serving people who are unable to serve themselves ... who have no voice," said Mario Suarez, the co-president of Notre Dame Right to Life and one of the conference coordinators. "In service, there has to be people who point others in the right direction." 
The coordinators hope to "point others in the right direction" over the weekend through a series of workshops. lectures and opportunities for members of different pro-life organizations to share ideas. Suarez characterized the weekend as a big brainstorming session between pro-life clubs. 

"This conference is actually a lot differ­ent from last year's. We had seven keynote speakers and a few workshops [then]." Suarez said. "The students really wanted to come and share their ideas and learn. We've restructured the whole thing." 
This year's conference promises to be more "hands on," featuring six workshop sessions. The sessions, meant to educate other organizations on how to run a suc­cessful club. focus on issues like motiva­tion, management skills and first amend­ment rights. The workshops and moderat­ed discussions are run by members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's clubs, as well as prominent members from the national pro-life community. 
The conference, however. is not limited to thc..,e wanting to become leaders within the pro-life movement. 
"Even if you have no interest in assum­ing leadership, you'll learn a lot and have some fun," Suarez said. "I think that abor­tion is an issue that everyone has an opin­ion on." 
In addition to workshops, the conference features two keynote speakers. Steve Mosher. president of the Population Research Institute, will deliver a speech on "Life Issues Around the World." His lecture will focus on human rights abuses in third world nations with a pro-life prospective. 
Cathy Cleaver, the director of Information and Planning for the National Conference of Catholic Bishops Secretariat, will speak on "How to Communicate the Pro-Life message." Her speech will deal with outsiders' perceptions of the pro-life movement and offer suggestions on how to discuss abortions issues with minimal con­llict. 
Initially. the conference was to feature a speech by Alan Keyes. a politician who ran in the Hepublican primaries. Keyes' office, 
however, cancelled his appearance last Friday because ofa schedule conflict. 
"I know [Keyes' absence] will disappoint many, and we apologize for this.... Alan Keyes is a phenomenal speaker and will be missed, but now we can have more dia­logue among students, and better focus on developing leadership skills and learning how to use our gifts to make a difference," Suarez announced in an e-mail to students registered for the conference. 
The club plans to fill his speaking time with two student speeches. 
The club expects attendance similar to last year's event, which drew 150 people from 15 colleges and universities -some from as far as California and Texas. Organizers began planning this year's con­ference a month before winter break, mainly under the direction of Suarez and Kaitlyn Dudley. Although ofTicial registra­tion ended on March 30. Suarez said they will admit students until seating capacity has been reached. 

Friday, April 6, 200 I 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Celebrate our champions 
Well, Irish fans, we have a lot to learn about sup­porting our teams. We need to take lessons from schools like Purdue, Maryland, Arizona, Penn State -and the school with the most spirit in the country -Michigan State. 
We are certainly amateurs when it comes to supporting our teams in victory and defeat. Just think about last Sunday, our women's basket­ball team wins the national championship and what do we do? We assemble at Main Circle at 2:30 a.m. and cheer when the victorious Irish get 

off the bus. You actually think Mike Connolly that thousands ofpeople cheering is the proper way to support a champion? 
Hardly. Just ask Purdue Editor in Chief freshman Jim Bartela. Even though the Boilermakers lost the title game, Purdue stu­dents welcomed their team back with broken win­dows, fires and overturned cars. 
"Even though there's destruction of the town, it's a great way to get people together, to help celebrate the basketball team," Bartela told the Purdue Exponent. 
Iwould like to personally apologize to Ruth Riley, Niele Ivey and the rest ofthe team for not properly celebrating their championship. I thought attending nearly all of their home games for the last three years and meeting them at Main Circle was enough. I was wrong. I really should have done something to get myself arrested. 
Because nothing says National Champs like a bunch ofdrunken idiots trashing the campus and getting tear gassed by police. 
Just ask Michigan State. The Spartans know how to celebrate a champion. Last year after their men's team won the title, the fans caused thousands ofdol­lars in damage and more than 100 were arrested. 
Some might question ifriots are the proper way to celebrate a championship. Some might say it's class­less and shameful to burn cars, attack police and destroy property. But how can you doubt that Penn State students weren't making their school proud when they smashed windows, tore down signs and light posts after the Nittany Lions' loss to the Temple Owls in the NCAA tournament? 
In fact, I believe Irish fans were disgraceful when they refused to destroy anything after Ole Miss knocked Notre Dame men's team out of March Madness. 
But fear not Irish fans. We can redeem ourselves. Our spring teams are playing really well. The men's lacrosse, women's tennis and baseball teams are all ranked in the top 10. This weekend, every time Tom Glatzel scores a goal against Denver, smash a win­dow in DeBartolo. For every Michelle Dasso ace, flip a car in D6. And when Aaron Heilman throws another fireball past a bewildered batter, burn downadonn. 
We need to celebrate our athletes accomplish­ments. 
Troy Murphy may jump to the NBA draft. Do you think that ifa couple hundred rioting Irish fans had gotten tear gassed by ND security/police, Murphy would even be considering the NBA? Of course not 
Purdue students like Eric Forbes are making sac­rifices for their teams, we should too. 'The tear gas burns your eyes and your throat. It really sucks," the Boilermaker said. 
The tear gas may be painful but thanks to fans like Forbes, no one will ever question the class of Purdue fans. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Kate Nagengast Amanda Greco 
Maribel Morey Graphics Andrew Thagard Katie Hall Sports Production Noah Amstadter Andrew Soukup 
Viewpoint Lab Tech 
Pac Kelly Lisa Velte 
Angela Campos 
The Obscmr (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Mon.by through Friday cxccpc during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the As.sociaced Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 
Seniors invite Doonesbury cartoonist April 5, 1977 
The graduating class picked Pulitzer Prize-winning car­toonist, Garry B. Trudeau for the Senior Class Fellow invitation and he gladly accepted. Especially important was the cartoonist's appeal to college students and the emphasis that he gave to social and controversial prob­lems in Doonesbury. That year, he addressed the entire class during Senior Week celebrations. 
Community unites against Ku Klux Klan April 6, 1998 
A group composed of Notre Dame students, faculty and staff, Bethel College students and members of the South Bend community and numbering more than 100 people, attended a two-hour demonstration on the Fieldhouse Mall to remember the 30th anniversary of the murder of Martin Luther King, Jr. and to protest an upcoming Ku Klux Klan rally in Elkart. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 


OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Uof Maffirmative action ruling could see high court 
LOS ANGELES 

On March 29, a federal judge halted the use of affirmative action at the University ofMichigan's law school. 
The university plans to take the case to the Supreme Court. and if it suc­ceeds, the decision could determine the fate of afl1rmative action in admissions nationwide. 
"I think it's unfortunate that the University of Michigan will have to deal with the constraints that we're all too familiar with here in California," said Leo Trujillo-Cox, executive director of the Outreach Resource Center at the UCIA School of Law. 
"If the Supreme Court makes a deci­sion, it's binding law nationally -it would change the face of public educa­tion," he added. 
What makes the case unique is that the University of Michigan's under­graduate affirmative action program was recently determined to be constitu­tional by another federal courtjudge. 

The conflicting cases may likely force the U.S. Supreme Court to decide the matter once and for all. 
"It's quite likely that the Supreme Court will take a look at this case espe­cially with the conflicting opinions whether or not this type of affirmative action is permissible," Trujillo-Cox said. 
The University of Michigan expects to win the case if it goes to the Supreme Court. 
"We will appeal this decision and arc confident that we will prevail in a high­er court," said University of Michigan president Lee Bollinger in a statement. 
The Supreme Court affirmed the use of affirmative action in the case Bakke 
v. Regents of the University of California, which barred the use of quotas in the admissions process but said that race could be used as a factor. 
Last week's decision concerning the University of Michigan was made after a non-profit organization, the Center for Individual Rights, helped launch the court case. 
HARVARD UNIVERSITY 
Horowitz debates reparation issue 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 
David Horowitz continued his crusade against slav­ery reparations for African-Americans in a debate at MIT Wednesday night against Dorothy Lewis, co-chair of the National Coalition of Blacks for Reparations in America. Horowitz has attracted significant media attention in recent weeks because of an advertisement he submitted to college newspapers across the country listing 10 points against reparations for descendants of African slaves in America. Many papers -including The Crimson -said the advertisement was unneces­sarily inflammatory and chose to reject it. Falling on the anniversary of Martin Luther King Jr.'s assassina­tion 33 years ago, last night's debate aimed to discuss the validity of such reparations. The bearded and bespectacled Horowitz said he did not support repara­tions because they would not go to the victims of slav­ery themselves. "These slaves are dead. Their children are dead. There's no one to pay the reparations to," he said. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
Accu Weather• forecast for daytime conditions and high tern ratures , 

UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND 
Basketball may boost applicants 
COLLEGE PARK. Md. 

During visits to Chicago high schools last week, University of Maryland interim admissions director Jim Christensen talked to prospective students who all wanted to talk about one subject: the Maryland men's basketball team. It seemed to Christensen the team's Final Four run was every student's link to the campus. It was common knowledge. The students knew little about campus life and academic pro­grams, but their interest was piqued and their ears opened. Thanks to the media spotlight focused on the University of Maryland during the NCAA tournament, the campus could potentially see an increase in stu­dents applying for admission next year. Boston College experienced it with its 1984 football team. After a win over national powerhouse Miami. Boston College saw its applicant pool increase nearly 40 per­cent. More recently, the University of Florida, Northwestern, Oregon State, Seton Hall and Syracuse have seen it. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 

The AccuWeathere forecast for noon, Friday, April 6. 
0 2001 AoouW-U-. lno. COI.D WARM STATIONARY
-
...,,

® © . .. C}] D D LJ ._.r 
Hit" low Show•• Rain r .. ,.,,,... F..,_ Snow ... Bunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy
I'll-­
Atlanta Baltimore Boston Chicago Houston 
75  62  Las Vegas  61  49  Portland  49  39  
70  58  Memphis  83  65  Sacramento  57  46  
48  34  Milwaukee  54  49  St. Louis  81  62  
65  55  New York  56  50  Tampa  88  64  
83  65  Philadelphia  64  55  Washington DC 73  61  


Friday, April 6, 200 I page 3
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
African tour convenes in DeBartolo, discusses policy 
By MARIBEL MOREY 
Assistant News Editor 
African political and human 
European Area Studies Minor (MES) 
Widen your horizons beyond the limits of individual disciplines through across-disciplinary perspective. Choose aEuropean Area Studies Minor. 
Students participating in the European Area Studies Minor must complete the following requirements: 
1. 
The student must take a least four area studies courses (12 hours) distributed over three different departments. These courses will not be counted toward other requirements. 

2. 
The student must take and pass at least two semesters of a European language or demonstrate proficiency in a European language. 

3. 
In the senior year, the student must complete a supervised area studies essay. The research and writing may be extended over a two semester period. Students must receive the approval of a faculty member to direct the essay. 


For more information and a list of classes, contact: 
The Nanovic Institute for European Studies 
419 Flanner Hall (219) 631-5253 Director: Robert Wegs 
rights activists, a singer/song­writer, a lawyer, the former Rwandan prime minister and a member of the Pan Africanist Congress in South Africa will be available for questions in DeBartolo room 140 from 1-5 

p.m today. 
As part of the African Peace Tour, these and other Africans, are speaking at venues across the country to promote citizen action for a more people-orient­ed US policy toward Africa. Notre Dame is one of their last 
stops on the tour. 
"Looking as an outsider. 
[this variety of speakers] 
shows to me that those who 
put the conference together 
are interested in providing 
more than one perspective." 
said Hugh Page, director of 
African and African-American 
Studies which is sponsoring 
the event. 
The Peace Tour is designed 
to help U.S. 
citizens 
understand "Our goal is to sponsor Bakary 
African Tandia is a
programs that will 
issues. human rights Through this increase ... concerns activist from understand­[ about] Africa ... ,, Mauritania 
i n g , and Rebecca Americans Wakuteka is a will hopefully Hugh Page singer/song­encourage an clredor al African.America Studies writer from 
American policy toward Africa that will benefit African people and allow the continent to recover from centuries of exploitation, according the program's Web page. 
..Our goal is to sponsor pro­grams that will increase the University and local communi­ties· concerns in understand­ing issues that are of concern in Africa and in the African 
NEWS BRIEFS 
Course booklet available: The fall edition of the 
booklet, "Social Concerns Courses with Experiential and Community-based Learning" is now available for all interested students and faculty at the Center for Social Concerns and the offices of Campus Ministry. 
t h e 

Democratic Republic of the Congo whose lyrics include political commen­tary. 
The African Peace Tour is a unit of the American Friends Service Committee, a Quaker organization that includes peo­ple of various faiths who are committed to peace, humani-' tarian service and social jus­tice. 
Diaspora in Europe," Page said. "(This event] is an educational opportunity." 
All the speakers will offer their distinct perspectives on Sub-Sahara Africa. 
Kalisa Rusangwa Remera lost his parents and most of his extended family in the 1994 Rwandan genocide. 
Fautin Twagiramungu is a former Rwandan Prime Minister and Adnane Bouchaib is a lawyer and the Secretary General of Somoud, a group that represents families of indi­viduals that have been kid­
napped by 
terrorist. 

PPE THE MINOR IN PHILOSOPHY, POLITICS, AND ECONOMICS 
The PPE Concentration invites applications from undergraduates with special interests in the intersecting areas of political philosophy, political theory, and economic analysis. Every year about twenty highly motivated and talented students are admitted to PPE. Check it out to see if it is for you. Many ofour students go on to careers and top graduate programs in law, public policy, philosophy, political science, and economics. 
If you are looking for 

(1) 
an integrated approach to politics and justice, without all the requirements of a second major, and 

(2) 
an intellectual community of faculty and students who share your interests, 


then PPE wants you! 
FOR MORE INFORMATION, contact either Professor David O'Connor, Philosophy Department, O'Connor.2@nd.edu, 631-6226, or Professor John Roos, Government Department, Roos. I @nd.edu. 
FOR AN E-MAIL APPLICATION, simply send a request to either Professor John Roos at Roos.l@nd.edu or Professor David O'Connor at O'Connor.2@nd.edu. The application deadline is noon on Thursday, April 12. Late applications will be accepted onlv if openings are still available. 
RECRFATIONAL SPOITTS UNIVERSITY OF NarRE 0Al\,1E 
RecSports has openings for this summer and the 2001-2002 academic year in the following p~s!fions: 
~tudent,t!Jupervi~or~
1 ? •
front,De~k ~uperv,~or~ 
. ~ 
fitne~~ Room ,~upervi~or~ l~~ue Room ~upervi~or~Lifegilclrd;, 
WWW ~upporl ~tudent 
Any one who is interested in applying for these positions should stop by the RecSports office and fill out on applica­tion. Office hours are 8:00-12:00 & 1 :00-5:00. 631-51 00. 

page 4 Friday, April 6, 2001 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
all students. And gradually, enrollment grew. 
PLS 
As the decades went on, the continued from page 1 Program's place at Notre 
Dame solidified. And while patience of other departments. other departments in the who feared the new program University changed their cur­would overlap into their disci­riculum, PLS remained largely plines. true to its original texts. 
This, according to professor Sometimes a text would be Frederick Crosson, put PLS on dropped and another added in shaky ground in its early the Great Books seminars. years. Sometimes a new elective 
"There was always the ques­would be offered as professors tion of whether it would be came in and out of the pro­dissolved," he said. PLS never gram. But just as Dostoevsky's was dissolved, thanks in large "Crime and Punishment" has part to steadfast support from not changed since it was writ­Cavanaugh, and, later, Father ten, PLS at Notre Dame Theodore Hesburgh. But peo­remains essentially identical to ple across the University were its origins. slow to embrace the Program. Professor Michael Crowe Some critics felt it was not graduated from Notre Dame in Catholic enough for Notre 1958. He came back two years Dame -some Great Books later to teach in the Program were on the Church's Index of which he majored in, and he Forbidden Books, and the has been doing that ever since. seminar style defied the PLS today. he said, is basically Catholic idea that the truth unchanged from PLS then. could be known. Others simply "The two are very close. Just 
did not sup­ about  every  
port its rev­olutionary methods.  "Education ought to make students relevant  other major in the University is doing signifi­ 
"The sur­vival of the y o u n g  20 or 30 years in the future . .,  cantly different things. We're doing pretty  
always  much  the  
seems  pre­ Michael Crowe  same," Crowe  
carious to me and even  PLS professor  s a i d "Continuity in  
miraculous.  the Program is  

Life is frail and fragile in its very substantial." beginnings," Father Nicholas The reason for this, the Ayo wrote in his "The Program's directors said, is Beginning of Great Books in that the great questions which the Cavanaugh Years." the courses deal with remain 
But that frail life continued, unanswered. And the purpose and, despite the reduction of of the Program remains the Program from four years unchanged as well. PLS pur­to three, to make way for a ports to teach its students common First Year of Studies more than just the latest skills in 1954, PLS began to thrive. they will need in a changing Hesburgh used it as a model business world. when he introduced the "Education ought to make Collegiate Seminar -a fore­students relevant 20 or 30 runner of the Core Course -years in the future," Crowe which was an interdisciplinary said. discussion course required of This education, with a thor-

This SIIMMett,l.esl'n st lO!fOLS Get a jump on your degree-or wrap up a required course or two-at Loyola University Chicago's Summer Sessions. You'll have a top-quality academic experience at a premier national university ranked a "best value" by U.S. News and World Report. Early Session: May 21 -June 29 Late Session: July 2 -August 10 Extended Session: May 18 • August 11 
• 
Take the courses you want-including upper­level classes you can't get at community colleges. 

• 
Choose from four Chicago-area campuses, or learn on!ine at our virtual campus. 

• 
Pick your own schedule from our array of day, evening, weekend and online courses. 

• 
Enjoy the best of Chicago in the summertime. Many of our courses specially incorporate the city's great business and cultural resources. 


At Loyola, you'll get the same personal attention we provide to our full-time students-in courses taught by the same top-notch professors you'll find in our class­rooms year-round. Visit our Web site to learn more about Loyola-and apply today! 
SIIMMe" Sessions 2001 
Loyola University Chicago 
\IWW.L11c.ed11/BCfd9MiCS/SIIMM9 .. /B-ds 
Chicago's Jesuit University 
LOYOLA 
Call today! 
> m,~ UNIVERSITY
I: . jCHICAGO 1-800-7-LOYOLA 
Q '-' 
•~.~-Summer Sessions 

oughly interdisciplinary style, tends to mold students who enter a wide range of pursuits after graduation. About one­third of each graduating class does service work, Power said. Another third goes to law school. The others enter a mix of graduate programs, teach­ing jobs and the business world. 
This interdisciplinary approach, so revolutionary in 1950, meets greater appeal today. Broad majors, such as American Studies, and concen­trations and minors like Philosophy and Literature or Science, Technology and Values are growing at Notre Dame and other schools. There are few new Great Books programs under devel­opment these days, but the idea of truly liberal education has not died. supporters said. 
"Devotion to Great Books is more alive across the nation than a survey of universities might allow," said Eva Brann, a professor at St. John's College in Maryland, which teaches an all-Great Books curriculum, at a talk celebrat­ing the 50th anniversary of 

This advertisement was created by PLS majors to encourage
PLS Wednesday. These time­
more students to join the Program. It ran in the Feb. 9, 1968
less texts carry a weight that 
edition of Scholastic.
lasts through the years, Brann said. And they will always have something to teach us. 
Thus Cavanaugh and Bird's experiment grew and matured at Notre Dame into an unusual and challenging major which is certainly no longer in dan­ger of being dissolved. Instead, after 50 years of exposing undergraduates to the Great Books, the PLS program will continue to show those books. And it will continue to prepare its students for life beyond col­lege in a unique, unparalleled way. 
"The preparation is not seen so much as preparation for a career," Power said, "As it is preparation, you might say, for life." 

ST. MICHAELS 
lAUi 
RY 
& DRYCLEANING 
SUMMER STORAGE BEGINS APRIL 16, 2001 
There's no need to take your winter clothes and school linens home! 
*Students may request that the storage fee be deducted from their laundry contract, or charged to their student account. You do not need cash! 
*You DO NOT need a laundry contract to participate. 
*All garments and linens must be laundered or drycleaned at over-the-counter prices. 
*Saint Michael's cannot process leather or suede. 
*A $7.00 storage fee will be added to your invoice (per order/does not include cleaning fee). 
*All items must be picked up no later than September 7, 2001. 
Saint Michael's Student Laundry Distribution Center is located at Holy Cross Dr. and Sorin Ct. Hours: 8:00 a.m. -4:30 p.m. Monday -Friday 
Extended Hours May 10 & 11: 8:00 a.m. -6:00 p.m. for more information call 631-7565 or visit our new web site at www.ndlaundry.com 
--------------------------------------------.....--,....,---------________, ___ 

ATION 
Friday, April 6, 200 I COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
India offers talks with rebels: In a major attempt to end five decades of regional unrest, India on Thursday offered to hold peace talks with Kashmiri separatists living abroad as well as those in the disputed Himalayan region. But the offer was immedi­ately rebuffed by a key umbrella organization of political and religious groups in Kashmir, which demanded that the Pakistani govern­ment should be part of a tripartite dialogue. 
Workers occupy Acropolis: Workers from the Greek culture ministry occupied the Acropolis, Athens' main tourist attraction, for 30 minutes on Thursday, preventing visitors from entering to view the 2,500-year-old monuments. The workers, who were employed on a temporary basis, were demanding a renewal of their contracts. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Bush to visit Poland: President Bush will visit Poland during a June trip to Europe, a White House official said Thursday. "The president looks forward to reviewing ways in which the United States and Poland -old friends, new allies -can intensify coopera­don in pursuit of common goals," White House spokesman Ari Fleischer said. On the European trip, Bush is also traveling to Goteborg, Sweden, and to Brussels. Belgium. 
Jury: tobacco industry not liable: 
A flight attendant awaiting a lung transplant is not entitled to money from the tobacco industry for illnesses she blames on ciga­rette smoke in jetliner cabins, a jury decided Thursday. The jury found the tobacco indus­try was not liable for the lung disease that made Marie Fontana cough up blood on the witness stand during her testimony in the three-week trial. Jurors began deliberating late Thursday morning. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Bedford man tried to run over wife: A Bedford man injured when he crashed his truck while allegedly trying to run over his wife will be charged with attempted murder. John Evans, 25, remained in police custody Thursday at Dunn Memorial Hospital. where he was being treated for head and possi­ble internal injuries he sustained in Tuesday's crash. Witnesses said Linda Evans, 19, was walking along a Bedford street Tuesday after­noon when her husband approached at high speed in his 1967 Ford truck, said Maj. Dennis 
N. Parsley of the Bedford Police Department. 
Market Watch April S 
Dow 
9,918.05 +402.63 
Jones 

Composite Same: 
Volume: 
236 NIA 
AMEX: 864.71 +25.60, NASDAQ: 1,785.00 +146.20 NYSE: 592.55 +19.84 S&P 500: 1,151.44 +48.19 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +9.15 +1. 25 14. 94 NASDAQ 100 INDX (QQQ) +9.57 +3.26 37 .31 INTEL CORP (INTC) + 13 . 24 +3.00 25.62 DELL COMPUTER (DELL) +13. 53 +3.00 25.19 MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) +9.27 +4.81 56. 75 


China for questioning. always say excuse me," Washington; U.S.
Associated Press 

Both countries held firm Jiang said. Ambassador Joseph 
WASHINGTON to their opposing positions Several high-ranking Prueher met twice with 
The United State1, and in public -China demand­government officials said Assistant Foreign Minister 
China intensified negotia­ing an apology, Bush refus­the situation improved Zhou Wenzhong in China. 
tions Thursday for the ing to offer one -but sent practically overnight, "We're having intensive 
release of an American spy encouraging signals in a though they still had no discussions with the 
plane's crew, and U.S. offi­diplomatic flurry. The assurances the crew of 21 Chinese," State 
cials said they were administration's tone men and three women Department spokesman 
encouraged by the talks. brightened as weary Bush would be released. Richard Boucher said. 
President Bush. in a concil­advisers embraced the first While most Americans Frustrated for days by 
iatory gesture, expressed notes of progress. slept, Bush's team worked the lack of talks, American 
regret over the in-flight In Santiago, Chile, visit­on China ti-me Thursday diplomats were suddenly 
collision that triggered the ing Chinese President Jiang morning to open new negotiating with Chinese 
tense standoff. Zemin again said the channels of communica­counterparts over U.S. 
..The Chinese have got to United States should apolo­tions with Beijing. The demands for the crew's 
act," Bush said, "I hope gize for last weekend's col­talks continued as dawn release. "We're talking 
they do so quickly." lision. ''I have visited many made its way around the about what we want to talk 
China called the 24-per­countries, and I see that globe: Chinese Ambassador about, which is release," 
son crew lawbreakers and when people have an acci­Yang Jiechi met with said a senior government 
said the servicemen and dent, the two groups Deputy Secretary of State official. speaking on condi­
women would remain in involved. the two parts, Richard Armitage in tion of anonymity. 
NETHERLANDS 
Disease threatens rare livestock breeds 
Only a handful of these varieties them from common dairy or beef
Associated Press 

still survive on protected national cattle. Names such as Lakenvelder, 
AMSTERDAM parks and farms, Some have already Brandrood and Groningen Blaarkop 
Several rare breeds of cows, goats been slated for "preventive clearing," -Dutch Belted, Burned Red and and sheep -familiar from 16th cen­or the killing of healthy animals to Whitehead -have come to symbol­tury paintings by Dutch masters -build a firewall against the ailment. ize more than just a farming her­are threatened with extinction by the "We have been struggling for years itage. foot-and-mouth epidemic that has to keep populations up. This would "It's a piece of our culture," said struck the Netherlands. be a fatal blow," said Robert Moens Anno Fokkinga, author of books on 
For some breeds, the few remain­of the Society for the Preservation of rare DutGh livestock. "It would be a ing specimens could be caught up in Nature. The society said it would ask real shame if they disappeared, only the slaughter of hundreds of thou­a judge to prevent the killing of spe­to be seen in paintings." sands of animals in efforts to contain cial animals. Protection groups say The animals were common in the the virulent livestock disease. On 19 endangered breeds are threat­famed landscape paintings of 16th Friday. the last 100 Schoonbeker ened by foot-and-mouth. and 17th century Dutch artists, such sheep left in the world are due to be The rare cows are usually named as Pieter Brueghel, Paul Potter and destroyed. for their markings, which distinguish Albert Cuyp. 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 6, 2001 
ND honors Wooden for sportsmanship 
Special to The Observer 
John Wooden, the most suc­cessful coach in collegiate bas­ketball history, will be honored tonight for his longtime commit­ment to integrity in athletics by Notre Dame's Mendelson Center for Sport, Character & Culture. 

The recognition will come dur­ing the 25th annual presentation of the Wooden Award to theI nation's outstanding men's bas­
I 
ketball player at the Biltmore Hotel in Los Angeles. Father Theodore Hesburgh, president emeritus of Notre Dame, will 
make videotaped remarks on behalf of the University, and Mendelson Center co-director David Shields will present Wooden with a plaque that reads in part: 
"The consistent modeling and promotion of teamwork, sportspersonship. respect, hard work, and integrity -timeless values nurtured by Coach Wooden and honored in perpetu­ity by the John R. Wooden Award -remains the most important goal for student-ath­letes, coaches, and all who are concerned with the quality of sport. The Mendelson Center unites with the legions of friends, colleagues, and admir­ers in congratulating John Wooden and the Wooden Award Committee for keeping this goal foremost in mind and action." 
Tommy Hawkins, a 1959 Notre Dame graduate and All­American forward for the Irish, will serve as master of ceremonies for the Wooden Award. He is the vice president of communications for the Los Angeles Dodgers. 
Notre Dame also will be rep­resented at Friday's black-tie event by junior Troy Murphy, a finalist for the Wooden Award, and Irish men's basketball head coach Mike Brey. 
A native of central Indiana, Wooden led his Martinsville High School team to the state championship in 1927. He went on to become a star at Purdue University, earning recognition as the college play­er of the year and leading the Boilermakers to the national title in 1932. 
After coaching for two years at Dayton High School in Kentucky, Wooden spent the next nine years just a couple of miles from Notre Dame, coach­ing at South Bend Central High School. His overall high school coaching record was 218-42. 
Following service in the Navy during World War II, Wooden coached at lndiana State University from 1946-48, compil­ing a record of4 7 -14 and leading the Sycamores to the finals of the NAIA Invitational in his final year. 
In 1948, Wooden accepted the head coaching job at UCLA, where for the next 27 years he established one of the greatest dynasties in sports history: 620 wins against just 147 losses, four perfect 30-0 seasons, 88 consec­utive victories (a streak broken by Notre Dame in 1974). 38 straight wins in NCAA Tournament games. 20 confer­ence championships, and 10 national titles, including seven in a row. 
For all of his accomplishments as a coach, however, Wooden is equally admired for his personal integrity, commitment to acade­mic excellence, faith, and self­control, all with the intent of helping his players develop to their fullest both on and off the court. "Ability may get you to the top," he said, "but it takes char­acter to keep you there." . 
Wooden, now 90, resides in the Los Angeles suburb of Encino. 


Crosson recreates great authors 
By C. SPENCER BEGGS 
News Writer 
Frederick Crosson, former 
John J. Cavanaugh Professor of 
Humanities in the Program of 
Liberal Studies, sees the Program 
of Liberal Studies (PlS) as a "con­
versation with the authors of the 
core texts." 
Consequently, his lecture ­
given Thursday afternoon at 
McKenna Hall-took the form of 
a dialectic with his favorite Great 
Books authors (played by him­
self), each interjecting their com­
ments to spur the conversation. 
Crosson and his imagined inter­
locutors discussed, specifically, 
the role of faith in liberal educa­
tion. 
"The title [of my lecture] is 'Seeing and Believing,' not 'Seeing is Believing,"' Crosson said to begin defining his argu­ment. Crosson's lecture was part of Notre Dame's PLS conference "Liberal Learning and the Great Books," which commemorates 
the department's 50th anniver­sary. "A good deal of what we learn in college comes about through believing," Crosson said. The difference between believing and knowing, for Crosson, is that to know is to have experi­

Jtll{UNib1/fqlndi" 
The Notre Dame Polish Club would like to congratulate the Lady Irish on their NCAA Championship! 
Gratulejemy! 
Congrats on all your hard work, and good luck in the future! 
' 
ence. On the other hand, to believe one must either have faith in other's experiences of mortally perceiv­able things or faith in things that are beyond human experience. 
Crosson said that 
most of our "knowl­edge" is actually belief. We all "know" that the earth revolves around the sun, but rather than observe those facts for ourselves, we under­stand the process of how others observed them and have faith in their experience. It is in this way that what we "know," Crosson said. we actually "believe." Although he admitted that, "It would be better to know than to 
believe." 
Crosson described the classic Greek thinkers as seeking under­standing through what was evi­dent in the natural world, "what showed itself to be true." In antiquity, he said intellectuals sought to replace opinions with 
knowledge. In the more modern intellectu­al (Christian} tradition, according 

to Crosson. knowledge is intrinsi­cally intertwined with belief. "Flesh and blood, that is humans, cannot discover the whole truth," said Crosson. Rather, they may only believe in knowledge. 
Crosson established two "grounds for belief." First, like Aristotle, one may have to believe before one can understand some­thing. Secondly, one may believe when the thing is, in principal, beyond human capacity for 
understanding. 
Past individual beliefs, Crosson examined religions, or systems of belief, based on three questions: whether the their doctrine was illuminating, whether it was con­sistent with things one already knows to be the case and what are its benefits to the individual and society. 
TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
The Students' 1st choice in Off-Campus Housing 
DON'T WAIT APPLY TODAY!!!! 
P: 272-8124 
The Department of Mathematics Proudly Presents The GE Prizes for Excellence in Mathematics 
to 
Senior Honors Mathematica Majera 
Matthew Hedden and David Swinar$ki 
Senior Mathematica Major• 
Katherine Rakowski and Kate Simpson 
and 
H••••r Scholarships to 
Carisnne McCullough and Kim Spsyd 
and 
The Kolettis Award in Mathematica to 
SamiA3aaf 

1E 

-Large 2-Bedroom floorplan -Student Leases Available -4·Blocks From Campus 
ONLY A+ FEW LEFT -SECURE YOUR APARTMENT TODAYI 
"The Best Value In Off Campus Living" 
Professionafly Managed by Real Estate Management Corp. 
234-9923 


.. 


page 7

Friday, April 6, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Sterba leaves ND to
ND constructs visiting prof housing 
be located behind Fischer

By LIZ ZANONI 
Graduate Housing, will consist of 

News Writer 
two buildings with 24 units, said 
Schellinger who is working in 

Building commenced recently conjunction with the Office of the for the new Fischer Visiting Provost on the new apartments.
Faculty Residences, apartments "This gives the Universityfor visiting professors and facul­more of a marketing tool," said ty members, said Joe Schellinger who believes that the 
Schellinger, director of Notre residences will help the Dame's Academic Space. University compete in recruiting
The residences, which are to 
)~ii:~;;;.::~i;,::•·;;trr·'. ::: }~~~1 ~:;::: r.;;: : 
. ..Q:J!:!I.. ..· •••.,.........
.......v· 
:"·•:,.::i::::•:: ::: nm~:•:•:•:•1:::-:· · u·.. IJ .....•.::-:-::•:•:•:•:•:•:n•:•:•:•:•:•:•:•:•:•:•:•:•:•:•:•:•:•:•:•1.:m:•:•:•: 

i:::f::i:•:•... . . v.•t:/fidi:htAtirnPi::!:\}\L\ .· ..rO OIQ:Y!:'.iaff:Qg:fmfi!)ai\
•:.:•:~,i.~:~•~·•.1':l:·.~·~.r,!"-1:,~~.~.~!-,~.,t ~.• """'f -' -• -• -·.': ~.t:MMM:1•1"!':0IM•X·l!tff ¥ 
·,Mr,@,:,:,::::::~;;::,::;:'.:,;:~~­
11r

rw1ra1 
~1is11~.
','U,O.N,•,•········.','~:-,.•.:.. 
:{~ '','.W,W,•. l•:•·•,•.•,•·•·',•,w,•1:,,:.•,;,;,;,;,;,;: '. ;,:,:.;,•:e1. '.',W, , ..... , 
• m••••;:•:: •( ,:.•,:.:,:,:•:•:.:•:~•:•:•:•:•::;,;,;,;,•,:,:•:•,.'.:•" ., ,N,, ,•A~m•'•\\••
,,;rilitf. •219 •,;.;,;,;.235''}! 
•:v:•,.'.,:.>,•
t~f;iai{!iµ~ i 
' ... : $,:~Jl.uClhSt %.~ ,,:
t1•1 :
~::~J~~11rii~1?wtrlra~ '}
::.;;Aeif•it~!It:·....................... OU 
•• .,. <. 
..,••• :•• ,:::~:-~~-:-:,:,:,:,:,;,;,;,;,;,:,;,;,:•:•:•·•:•:•:•::,:,:,:,!,:~-:-:,:•!•>!:::-;:::*l~;«::$:::.:.'t~:[:i::::::J~:-1$:~::~B~~~\~~t:•. 

-Renovated, spacious one and two bedroom apartments, some with lofts. 
-Includes membership in the new Castle Point Racquet Club and Fitness Center. 
NOTRE DAME LACROSSE 
*ALL GAMES AT MOOSE KRAUSE STADIUM 
1 ~~~~~ 
Sttn9El)'\rs;Q:onned:mut 
~~ ~1!~~~,i~ . _ 
Saturdayvs. Iknver ~30pm Mondayvs. Air Force 4pm 
quality professors. The apart­
ments are especially accommo­
dating to visiting professors with 
children because the residences 
are all two-bedroom complexes. Often it is difficult for visiting professors, especially professors on sabbatical from other coun­tries, to find housing in the local South Bend community because their stay is so brief, said 
Schellinger. The new apart­ments will provide a place for these faculty members to live. 
"The whole program is designed for a short term stay," said Schellinger. 
Although the University has the funds to begin building, Schellinger said Notre Dame is still looking for donors to sub­sidize the apartments. 
The University has been aware of the increased need for housing and is committed to the project. said Schellinger. 
The Office of the Provost is in the process of deciding which colleges and institutions at Notre Dame will receive the badly needed apartments, said Schellinger. Distribution of the apartments is based on the budget, size and need of the colleges and institutions requesting space. Each college must have a five-year commit­ment to rent in their budget. 
Although the assignments have not been announced yet, there is a long waiting list from different colleges and institutions at Notre Dame, said Schellinger. The apart­ments are expected to be ready for spring of 2002. 
Castle Point Select Units Available for Next Semester 
::•within Minutes of Campus':• 
noTR~ DAm~ TRACI-< V l=IIJ..D 


Sprillg__, 
Miami * Western Michigan * Butler * f\1ichigan St. 
Moose Krause Stadium 
Saturday, April 7th 10am 
research race issues 
By ALLIE JAY 
News Writer 
Professor James Sterba will leave Notre Dame at the end of the semester to pursue his research interests at the 
National Humanities Center in N o r t h Carolina. Sterba, a philosophy professor, was award­

ed one of 
Sterba
35 residen­
tial fellow­ships. 
"I was honored and surprised especially to find out that only four philosophers were award­ed fellowships," said Sterba, "The time off is the most impor­tant thing. With a year off I can get to these projects." 
The fellowship, which Sterba received in March, will allow him to complete two books for Oxford University Press without teaching obligations. One of the books he hopes to complete during his fellowship year is a defense of affirmative action. 
"I feel things are going badly on the affirmative action issue right now, and I wanted to have input and sway things in a posi­tive direction," Sterba said. "Today the Supreme Court is turning the 14th amendment on its head and making sure whites don't have to make any concessions to blacks." 
The 14th amendment. or the 
equal rights and protection 
amendment, was passed after 
the Civil War as a means to 
defend the government's dis­
persal of land and aid that was 
offered to blacks. However. 
according to Sterba, the 
Supreme Court is not allowing 
race to be taken into account 
when designing aid programs 
under its current interpretation 
of the amendment. 
Sterba also expressed con­
cern that the present Court's 
interpretation of the 14th 
amendment prevents programs 
that help African Americans catch up. He said programs need to be implemented to aid African Americans that suffer injustices in today's society which is still not color blind. 
"To get beyond racism you have to take race into account. ... If you look at the lives of blacks today, there's plenty of evidence. You don't have to look to the past. but just look at our white lives and the benefits and privileges we have," he said. 

On April 27 Sterba will debate his position on affirma­tive action with Carl Cohen from the University of Michigan who strongly opposes affirma­tive action. The second project Sterba will work on will draw on the history of ethics to argue for the importance of practical arguments such as the distribu­tion of goods in society and the morality of homosexual rela­tionships. 
"These are all important practical issues that we usually don't look to the ancient philosophers to answer" said Sterba. 
Sterba has written more than 150 articles and published 21 books. 
His book. "Justice for Here and Now" was awarded the 1998 Book of the Year award by the North American Society for Social Philosophy. 
Need deposjt help? Last time house cleaning before you head home, 
Call Debra (675-0376) or Pat (674-4336) 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
-Used Books bought and sold -25 Categories ofBooks -25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock -Out-of-Print search service -Appraisals large and small 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 


O
THE page 8 BSERVER Friday, April 6, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
Ass-r. MANAGING EDITOR  
Kerry Smith  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Pat McElwee SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadter ScENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer Ao OF.SIGN MANAGER.: Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB AoMINISTRA TOR: Adam Turner CoNTROLLER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Kacie McKenna 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0.••....•..•.•.631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
obscrvad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF ........................................ 631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIA.ss-r. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VJEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.vicwpoinr. l@nd.edu 
SPORTS........................................................631-4543 
obscrver.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCF.NE.........................................................631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MAR.v's............................................. 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB AoMINISTRATOKS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://obsnwr.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
onlinc featutts for spe­
and rates of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Eaitorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Eaitor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through leccers is encouraged. Letters to the Ediror must be signed and must include contact information. 
QUr1tions regarding Observer policin should be dirrct­ed to Editor in Chief Mike Connolly. 

Demand disclosure from contractors 
When Saint Mary's opened justified. bidding on the construction of Unions companies are not an addition to the mainte­intrinsically good nor are non­nance building, the adminis­unions companies intrinsically tration first entertained bids bad. As long as a company only from does high-qual­contractors ity work. uses using union­O Th the best mate­
oserver
ized workers. rials and pays Saint Mary's its workers a deemed these fair wage, 
Editorial
bids to be too Saint Mary's expensive should not and reopened bidding to non­have qualms about doing busi­unionized companies in a sec­ness with it, be they unionized ond round of bidding hoping or non-unionized. that the addition could be built The problem is, currently for a lower cost. Saint Mary's has no way of 
A non-unionized company. knowing these three stipula­Majority Builders, submitted tions are being met by compa­the lowest bid in the second nies who bid for campus con­round of bidding and was tracts. Saint Mary's should awarded the contract. While require a breakdown of the Saint Mary's has received crit­various costs the company icism from some student expects to incur working on groups and union workers for the project so that it can not using union workers, this assure that the company is not criticism in not necessarily cutting corners to submit a lower bid. 
A demand for disclosure of wages, materials and condi­tions would not be unprece­dented. In the Anti-Sweatshop Task Force's final proposal last year, Saint Mary's requires companies making Saint Mary's apparel to dis­close its wages and work con­ditions. 
"Subcontractors recognize that wages are essential to workers basic needs. Therefore, Subcontractors shall pay employees, as a floor, wages and benefits which comply with all applica­ble laws and regulations, and which provide for essential needs and establish a dignified living wage for workers and their families. Saint Mary's reserves the right to terminate relations with a Subcontractor that violates natioual, local. or regional laws of the region of manufacture." 
If Saint Mary's holds international contractors to these disclosure standards, it should hold its local contrac­tors to the same standards. This disclosure by local con­tractors would not be public. Only Saint Mary's administra­tors would see the breakdown of the bid. 
This solution would not only protect local workers from unfair wages as compared to other contractors but also would protect Saint Mary's. By seeing the exact breakdown of money budgeted for materials and workers in each bid, Saint Mary's could avoid contract­ing with a company which would spend money on cheap­er materials and lesser skilled workers. 
In the long run, this plan will assure that construction on Saint Mary's campus is high quality and that local workers are paid fairly. 


Looking back on the last 10 years 
"The Notre Dame women have gone until the 1990s. to run for the national alumni board. My where their football team used to regu­Back then the issues on campus were Thunderbird Super Coup was a big deal larly go," said the ESPN announcer after objections to an authoritative University in my life and having a dog or expressing the women's basketball team won the administration and parietal hours, a outrage over civil rights violations were NCAA National Championship. The state­desire for coed housing. opposition to the furthest things from my mind. ment was another high tuition costs, lacking social interac­Today this writer is in a transition from example of the typi­tion between male and female students, working two of the best employment cally useless babble inadequate parking for students and con­years of my career in the Clinton sports announcers cern over drinking abuses on campus. Administration. I have attended just one blurt out on televi­Today, those issues still exist along with Notre Dame Alumni Club function in the sion. but it really was the civil rights struggle of gays and last five years and usually leave the T­an insult to the Notre debates over what types of monologues Bird parked while I drive a 1990 Dodge Dame athletic pro­to allow for presentation or advertise­Caravan. gr am. It tacitly ments for publication in The Observer. My two dogs, Potamus and Miss Beavis, implied that the Nationally, the early 1990s saw a coali­are the most enjoyable companions any­Notre Dame football tion of countries led by the United States one could imagine. My public stands for program needed to defeat Iraq's aggression. It was a time personal and human rights as well as my turn back its clock when Communism had crumbled but for­questioning of traditional dogma result in to be great. Nothing eign policy remained in full Cold War my receiving several nasty and threaten­could be farther gear as tensions with China and Russia ing e-mails each month. from the truth for remained high. When I stood in 1990 looking forward, Notre Dame, for our Gays were marching against discrimi­I could not have imagined that Newt nation or for each of us. nation in housing and employment. The Gingrich could poison the atmosphere of 
This current school year marks the stock market was declining and national the institution of the House to the extent 10th anniversary that this writer has growth had stopped for several quarters. that it still has so many distrusting and contributed "Capitol Comments" to The Democrats and Republicans were coop­nasty participants today. I would have Observer. Throughout that decade Notre erative and cordial in a friendly "loyal never guessed that alumni functions Dame has made tremendous strides in opposition" manner. would not mean much to me today. And I building its physical facilities. The nation Thus far, the Bush Administration certainly would not have expected that I has taken giant leaps forward in social seems to be turning back the clock in would stand so solidly for personal rights policies and domestic human rights. several domestic and foreign policy mat­that I would speak out as staunchly when Hopefully, each of us has progressed in ters. It is too early to judge the affects of I saw an injustice in government. church our interpersonal relationships rather such policy changes, but by next fall we or academic policy. than stagnated with outdated prejudices. should know more about this country's As I stand in 2001 gazing back over the 
Thirty years ago, before Notre Dame relationships with China and Russia. last decade, I appreciate the change. became a coeducational institution, life When the next school year begins, we Maybe most of the Hoosier State has one on campus was somewhat different than can judge two more quarters of economic redeeming quality after all -it remains it is today. Everyone from outside statistics and have an entire summer of on Eastern Standard Time throughout Indiana used the word hoosier in a nega­votes in Congress to judge just how civil the year and never turns its clocks back. tive context and made fun of the state. the institution has become. Nobody had answering machines in the A decade ago, this writer was enjoying Gary J. Caruso. Notre Dame '73. served dorm rooms, let alone digital voicemail. his 14th year of work at the U.S. House.of in President Clinton ·s administration. His Nobody had cordless telephones, let Representatives with its friendly atmos­column appears every other Friday. and alone cellular phones. Everyone had phere and campus environment. Having his e-mail address is HoUline@aol.com. typewriters and the Internet was still a just served as president of the The opinions expressed in this column laboratory experiment. Washington, D.C. alumni club, I was a are those ofthe author and not necessar­
Not much changed for about 20 years board director waiting for an opportunity ily those ofThe Observer. 
DILBERT 
EV£R'Y D£PARTM£NT WAS A5KED HOW IT COULD REDUCE IT5 BUDGET TEN PERCENT. 


YOUR PROJECT IS VITAL TO TH£ FUTURE OF THE COMPANY, SO I CLEV£RL'{ OFFER.£0 TO ELIMINATE IT, 
KNOWINC, TH£'{ COULON' A.CCEPT. 
.: u 
• 
.2
,,• 
C 
>, 1/J 
•! • 
:, 
... 1 
C 
:::, 
NOW THI$ 15 TH£ FUNNY 
PART ... 

SCOTT ADAMS 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Do you know the difference between education and experience? Education is when you read the fine print; experience is what you get when you don ·t. •· 
Pete Seeger musician 


O
THE 

Friday, April 6, 2001 BSERVER page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Supporting the unknown athletes 

You may know them. They are in your dorms, your class­es, or they may be one of your friends. They are athletes, but you may not know that at all or may not know what they do. 
You may have mistaken them for offensive linemen on the football team because of their size or their letter jackets. If you work in the issue room, it may have been you who mis­took them for male cheerleaders. To the average person eating in the dining hall. they might look like guys who pile up a little too much on their trays at every meal. 
They study science, business and engineering in the library at night and attend classes during the day in prepa­ration for their various futures: flight school, medical school. banking, entrepreneurship or being the technical master­mind behind a project. 
In addition, they spend the majority of the afternoon in the weight room or in the field. They push their bodies to the limits to achieve some personal realization of success. They are rarely recognized and hardly publicized, further proving they are not in this sport for the glory. 
They are athletes of caliber meeting or exceeding all other Notre Dame athletes but are never asked about their accomplishments nor complimented for their performance. They'll never see a colorized Irish Insider highlighting their team's upcoming competition. Even so. this tight knit group works unceasingly to do their best and derives strength from camaraderie {and cookouts). 
Who are these mystery athletes? What do they do? They are the hardest working, most dedicated, genuine and humorous men that I have met in my time at Notre Dame. 
They throw the hammer, the javelin, the shot put and the discus for the men's track and field team at Notre Dame. Come support and cheer on John Scolaro, Matt O'Brien, Derek Dyer, Brian Thornburg, Mike Madigan, Jason Davis and Juan Alba in their only home outdoor meet of the sea­son. 
This group, affectionately known as "the throwers," will compete this Saturday beginning at 10 a.m. at Meyo Field. They're your friends, boyfriends, housemates. classmates or fellow dorm members. Don't let their hard work go unno­ticed again. Go Irish! 
Kelly Gallagher junior Cavanaugh Hall April 5, 200 I 

Challenging the established sexual order 
When is bigotry not bigotry? Apparently, when it is declared natural law by a patriarchal institution to support its value of heterosexual supremacy. 
Well, at least that's what Charles Rice wants us to believe. And, it helps. of course, if we conveniently forget that religious institutions have invoked (and still do) the specter of natural law to support big­otry in many forms -slavery of African Americans, dominance of women -among other things. 
Rice's diatribe could easily have been reduced to one sentence reflecting his oft-touted opinion: "A society in which it makes no difference whether boys marry girls or other boys is on a dead-end road to extinction." 
It may surprise you that I actually agree with Rice on the content of this sentence. First though, I need to reword it just a bit so that I can be comfortable agreeing with it: "A society in which it makes no difference whether men marry women or other men, or women marry women is on a dead-end road to extinction." 
Maybe I'm being fastidious, but referring to men and women as boys and girls seems a bit paternal­istic -almost like I am being shown my place in the hierarchy compared to Rice's perception of his. It would kind of be like me calling him Chuck. 
Oh yeah, then there's that women marrying women phrase I've added. In my experience, les­bians tend to be a little sensitive about being left out, rendered invisible, acted toward as if they don't exist. Rice probably assumes that lesbians for­get that they are women and that being women their relationships with each other aren't really that threatening to a male-centered structure. 
Perhaps that's why Rice left them out. He proba­bly wanted to go after the real traitors of the patri­archy -men who love men or men who love men and women {another group he left out). He knew that women who love women weren't even worth the mention. 
Now that I've got semantics out of the way, I think I might be able to agree with Rice. However, anoth­er problem arises. I realize I probably don't agree with his unstated major premise, his underlying assumptions and worldview. 
Howard Becker, a well-respected sociologist, encourages us new social scientists to "extract the hidden major premise" when we are looking at any social interaction. So I look closer. Does Rice have a hidden major premise, one that he is not stating forthrightly? 
Of course he does. Society, just like it is currently, is good -at least in regard to how it treats gay and lesbian people. And he doesn't want that goodness to be taken away by some concept like equality or dignity. 
Bringing forth his hidden major premise, I can now wholeheartedly agree with him. A society that grants privileges to certain groups of people solely because of their sexual orientation (or their skin color or sex or lack of disabilities) will become extinct when it dismantles those privileges. 
Built on heterosexual privilege, this "good" soci­ety will fall if gay and lesbian people are treated with equality. We have found common ground ­we believe the same thing. 
Heterosexual privileges -what are those you ask? Those would be things like not being beaten or killed by complete strangers because of your sexual orientation. Heterosexual privilege is having a full array of legal rights that acknowledge and support your relationship -even after a three-day courtship with a stranger and a Las Vegas Elvis Chapel wedding. It is seeing accurate reflections of your life and your relationships represented in his­tory, in literature, in art, in science -throughout popular culture. Gosh, its even having your roman­tic relationship considered legitimate. 
If I were Charles Rice -a white, educated, Christian male who is (presumably) economically comfortable and heterosexual -I'd be very con­cerned about any changes that threatened the privi­
leges that got me ­able place where I live.  and keep me ­ in the comfort­ 
N. Eugene Mills graduate student April 5. 200 l  

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
University responds inconsistently to banners 
During the last three weeks, many people have in some way seen or heard about the DCBFA Project. You may have read or heard about the mock newspaper The Observed (which was in no way pro­duced or endorsed by The Observer, I should note). You may have also seen banners in various locations on campus which address topics of gender relations at Notre Dame. 1 Some have seen them and some may have heard about them but I thought it worth­while to share information about those banners that people wouldn't otherwise find out about. (,~ ~ ing banners of all kinds on 
What is very unusual to ~ ~ Q G(_( Lf S, \..(.,...... buildings. I would argue me is the reaction I have { _J (J that the precedent the gotten from the University University wants to avoid is regarding the banners. In "' -t-' well past set. There is in seeking permission for the ~ v,..._.....I fact a tradition of banner-
t)

banners to be hung, I met --\ \ ~ re... hanging at Notre Dame. 
with numerous University offi-__/v_ 01.., cials, explained the DCBFA pro----­ject numerous times and received numerous responses. 
When I requested permission to ~ hang the banners on various buildings , ­on campus, the University (individuals need ZC: not be named) said no. 
The reasoning behind the decision as I understood, was that the University wanted to avoid the possibility of a precedent being set about hanging banners on 
campus buildings, academic or otherwise. While my banners are in some ways controversial. I found it strange that the University had declined my request based on the reasoning being offered. In meetings, the sentiment was expressed that it was not the content of the banners that were in ques­tion (if it were, issues of censor­ship and freedom of speech could have become an issue). 
The University declined my banners because they were afraid that if they allowed 
these banners, people would want to begin hang­
.  Since I was a kid, I can  
---­ remember coming to Notre  
Dame for football games and see•  
ing the large banners that hung  
from the dorms showing the great  
sense of spirit and pride unique to Notre  

___ Dame. These spirit banners are a tradition 
at Notre Dame and a great one at that. 
Aside from banners that support our athletics there have been banners that promote student government nominees as well. Dorms aren't the only buildings that communicate with banners though. 
Just a few weeks ago, the Engineering department displayed large banners on Fitzpatrick and Cushing halls promoting Engineering Week, In addition, the newly opened Coleman-Morse building currently advertises the Writing Workshop on its facade. 
It seems the precedent has already been set. Banners are used often at Notre Dame, and they have become a tradition as well as an effective means of communication. So why then were my banners declined permission to hang? 
After going ahead and hanging the banners. some of them have been taken down. After one of the banners was taken down from a dorm, I was told that banners aren't supposed to be hung from dorm windows. I'm not sure I've seen banners hung any other way, and I'm not sure I accept that as a reason for the banner to be taken down. 
With varied reasons for why the banners aren't per­missible, none of which seem to hold water, I have to wonder why the banners are receiving resistance. Is it because the University wants to avoid banners being hung or is it because the University doesn't like what my banners have to say? I'll let others be the judge of that. 
From now on the banners will hang safely in the gallery window of the Snite Museum of Art while the DCBFA Project is on exhibit there. 
Dave Clark 
semor off-campus April 5, 2001 

R E 
c@ne 0 N 
O
THE 

page 10 BSERVER Friday, April 6, 200I 

How well do you 
Scene offers a complete guide to Lenten observaj 
on Fridays, although the grumbles of By LAURA KELLY 
hungry dining hall goers each week 
Associare Scene Editor 

might hint differently. What, then, is the focus of Lent? Why 
Easter break is a mere week away, and give up anything? Where did the "no visions of chocolate bunnies and pastel meat" conspiracy come from, anyway? eggs are beginning to dance in our Sometimes even 15 years of Catholic heads. And everyone who has stuck to schooling leaves one without satisfactory (or attempted to stick to) a Lenten reso­answers to these questions. And lest this lution knows that very well -after final week before Easter pass by without weeks of greedily eyeing other people's any enlightenment, here is Lent spelled desserts or craving caffeine every time a out as simply as it can be: the ABCs. Coke machine is in sight, many Lenten sacrificers are more than ready for 
Ash Wednesday
Easter to arrive. 

This feast day marks the beginning of
But the holiday is not yet upon us. 

the Lenten season. While not an official
There is 

day of obligation, Catholics have tradi­
still a week Lenten Services 

tionally attended Mass on this day,
of Lent left, 

receiving a mark of ashes on their fore­
another 

head in the shape of a cross. The ashes
week of . Confessions at the Basilica 

come from the burning of the palms
waiting 

heard Mon. -Thurs. 11:15 from the last year's Palm Sunday cele­
patiently 

bration. The marking of ashes has anot simply a.m., 5 and 7 p.m. 
two-fold meaning, representing the mes­
for the . Reconciliation offered at 
sage of Lent itself. 
chance to 

the Sacred Heart Parish Crypt As a sign of the penitential nature ofenjoy what-Lent, the ashes remind Catholics of their 
ever we Sat. from 4 · 5 p.m. 

own mortality and need to return to God 
gave up, 

. Campus-wide Stations of -"dust thou art, and unto dust thou
but for the 

shalt return." The sign of the cross is
the Cross on April 10, 7 p.m.
feast day 

also a reminder of the baptismal side ofitself. 
Lent.

Easter is the central, solemn feast of the Catholic Church, and the liturgical year is focused Barren decorations on this one celebration. According to the Entering any Catholic church during 
Catechism of the Catholic Church, the early spring reveals a stark contrast "Easter is not simply one feast among to the usual colorful decorations. Altars others, but the "Feast of feasts," the are stripped of flowers and decorations, "Solemnity of solemnities." Therefore, while the liturgical color of the season is the season leading up to the feast day is a dark purple. This color, used as the an important one, a time for Christians priest's vestments and often used in a 
to reflect on the mystery of Easter. rough material like linen to cover the 
Yet, often Lent seems to be a mystery altar, is symbolic of penitence, solemnity in itself. Often the focus of the 40 days and royalty. becomes giving up some cherished vice -cigarettes, sweets or alcohol -or bad 
Charity sacrifices reflect Jesus's deprivation in reminder of Jesus's sacrifice on the cross
habit -gossiping, swearing or lying. Donating time or money to those in the desert. first made by monks at St.
-were
\Vhile these sacrifices are all good and 

need is one of the Church's traditional Alban's Abbey in England and given asadmirable, they are not the focus of the 
Lenten practices: prayer, fasting and food for the poor. Today, the sticky buns season. Neither is abstaining from meat almsgiving. Christian charities and dioce­Easter covered with thick frosting are no longer
The holiday of Easter, celebrating
ses often have made from the same sparse Lenten
Jesus's resurrection from the dead, is
"Lenten ingredients, but many families still enjoy 
what the season of Lent is aiming
Appeals" to making them together on Good Friday,
toward. As the pivotal, defining event in
raise money for often saving the indulgent treats to eat
the Catholic religion, Easter is worthy of
church pro­on Easter.
40 days of preparation. Once Easter
jects, mission­Another snack food from Christian tra­
Sunday arrives, the churches are again
ary groups and dition is the pretzel. During early obser­
fully decorated and filled with flowers ­
other causes. vances of Lent, Christians of the fourth
a complete contrast from the former 
century observed a strict fast prohibiting
starkness. 

milk, butter, cheese, eggs, cream and
Desert 

The Gospel meat. Faced with few options, they creat­
Forty Days

story of Jesus's ed a bread which they called "bracaliae" 
In the Bible, the number 40 traditional­
(meaning "little arms") which was
40-day fast and 

ly means discipline and preparation.
temptation by shaped like arms crossed in prayer. This 
Examples of this are found throughout ­
the devil in the bread sprinkled with salt served as a 
Moses stayed on the mountain for 40
desert is often reminder that Lent was a time of prayer
days, Elijah traveled for 40 days until he and penance. When monks later intro­evoked during 
reached the cave where he had his duced these breads to the north, the
Lent. The litur­vision, the city of Ninevah was given 40 

Germans dubbed them "bretzels," fromgical season is days to repent. The stories of Jesus's life 
a which we get our word for pretzel. 
meant to be 

reveal this same number, as he spent 40
time of the 

days in the desert and later laid in the
same struggles, Lent
tomb for 40 hours until His resurrection.
preparation The English word for the season comes and sacrifice from the old Anglo-Saxon term 
that Christ Glorias and Alleluias 
"lencten." This word for spring actuallyunderwent as Songs of celebration like the Gloria are 
meant the gradual lengthening of the 
He prepared omitted during Lent, to serve as a 
days following the winter solstice. The 
for His public reminder of the season's solemn and 
derivation of the word is unique to 
ministry. The sober tone. Likewise, the Alleluia nor­English, as most other languages take mally sung or spoken before the reading
image of the their name for Lent from a derivative of 
often harsh, of the Gospel is replaced by another the Latin term "quadragesima." meaning 
barren desert acclamation, as the word "Alleluia" is "the 40 days." reflects the not to be said until Easter. somber mood 
Meat/No Meat
of Lent, and 

Hot Cross Buns and Pretzels 
While Fridays in Lent may be a day of
Catholics 

Two common culinary treats have their smug rejoicing for vegetarians, giving up 
believe their 

origin in the observance of Lent. Legend meat is a real sacrifice for many others.
own Lenten 

has it that hot cross buns -an obvious At Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. non-



R E 
c@ne 0 N 
O
THE Friday, April 6, 2001 BSERVER page 11 
know your Lent? 

TONY FLOYD/The Observer 

n found in the church. Priests' clothing and ban­resurgence of varied colors, floral arrangements 
Catholics don't even have a choice of whether or not to observe this practice, as no meat is served in the dining halls on Lenten Fridays. The tradition is a long-standing one, however, and before Vatican II, every Friday of the year was a day of abstinence from meat. Today. only Ash Wednesday, Good Friday and all other Fridays in Lent are days of abstinence from meat. This rule of absti­nence applies to all Catholics above the age of 14. 

In addition, Ash Wednesday and Good Friday are days of fasting, defined as avoid­ing snacking and eating only one full meal and two smaller meals that together do not equal the third. The idea is obviously not, however, to weigh plates of food so as to eat as much as possible, but instead to think of the sacrifice as commemorating Jesus's death on Good Friday. The rule of fasting applies to Catholics between the ages of 18 and 59. 
Passing up the juicy Whopper can bring some grown men to tears, but consider how much more of a sacrifice it could be. Fasting rules in the early days of the Church allowed only one meal a day in the evening and pro­hibited meat, fish, eggs and dairy products. Even today in the Orthodox and Eastern churches, fasting encompasses no meat, no dairy products and no condiments made from animal fat. So while giving up chicken, ham and the meatballs on your spaghetti may be a true sacrifice each Friday, consider what it is meant to represent -and how much more it could be. 
Penance 
The season of Lent is known as a time of penance, a time to recognize the faults and short-comings that come ~ith being human and to come to God in sincere prayer for for­giveness. During this season, Catholics are 
tions, giving reasons for all facets of the season 
encouraged to take part in the sacrament of penance, also known as confession or recon­ciliation. At Notre Dame there are many opportunities to go to a priest for confession, especially during Lent. Priests are available to hear confessions at the Basilica on Monday through Thursday at 11:15 a.m., 5 and 7 p.m., and on Friday at 11: 15 a.m. and 5 p.m. Reconciliation is offered at the Sacred Heart Parish Crypt on Saturday from 4 to 5 
p.m. Opportunities for the individual sacra­ment of penance will also be available in the Basilica after the campus-wide Stations of the Cross on April 10. 
Sacrifice 

Finally, the defining characteristic of the season. Around Catholic schools like Saint Mary's and Notre Dame, the question "What are you giving up for Lent?" is not uncom­mon in the early days after Ash vVednesday. Sacrificing desserts, candy, soft drinks or alcohol is one common Lenten resolution. People often take this opportunity to reform themselves of bad habits or try to improve their relationships with others. While giving something up for Lent is not mandatory, it has become a traditional practice of self­denial and sacrifice for Catholics. 
Technicalities 

The attentive observer has noticed by now that the "40 days of Lent" concept doesn't hold up when checked on a calendar -if the Church wants to be accurate about this, shouldn't they call it the 46 days of Lent? This is where a slight technicality comes in: the Sundays that fall during the Lenten sea­son are not actually a part of Lent. As Sundays are set aside for celebrating the res­urrection of Christ, they are not part of the penitential and somber season of Lent. 
Now the wheels are turning as they have in many a Catholic schoolchild's head: if Sundays aren't a part of Lent, then Lenten promises don't apply to those days either, right? 
Well, technically, no. You are allowed to have whatever you gave up for Lent on Sundays and feast days as well, like the Feast of St. Joseph. But while you can indulge yourself, the Church encourages you not to, in the spirit of maintaining an honest (albeit difficult or irritating) sacrifice during Lent. Basically, if you go for the dessert on Sundays and all your roommates know you've given it up, their dirty looks may be justified. 
Via Dolorosa/ Way of the Cross 
The Stations of the Cross are another tradi­tional form of prayer that is held year round, but receives special attention during Lent. This reflection on 14 moments or stages in Jesus's sentencing and crucifixion originated during the early days of the Church when pilgrims would retrace the last steps of Jesus in Jerusalem along the "Via Dolorosa," or the "Sorrowful Way." As more Christians longed to follow in Jesus's footsteps but were unable to make the pilgrimage to Jerusalem, churches set up stations commemorating the journey of Christ to Calvary. 
Today at Notre Dame there are Stations of the Cross in the Basilica, around the lake and in many residence halls. On April 10 at 7 p.m., Campus Ministry is hosting the annual Campus-Wide Stations of the Cross, a candle­lit reflection on the Stations that moves to different stations on campus and ends up in the Basilica. 
From A to Z, there is much more depth to the season of Lent than giving up swearing or hitting up the local fish fry on Friday nights. With ancient and rich traditions, the 40 days of preparation for Easter offer a valuable time of reflection for Christians and non-Christians alike. 
SCENE ASKS 

What did you sacrifice for Lent? 
"/ gave up red meat and any form ofnegativity towards fellow hu,nans. " 
Weston Webb sophomore, Carroll Hall 



"/ tried to give up complaining about physics.·· 
Katie Jeter sophomore, Farley Hall 
"/ gave up scooting, but I wasn't faithful. " 
Tim Murray freshman, Keenan Hall 


"/ gave up certain pleasures.,. 
Dave Vosburg freshman, Stanford Hall 

photos by TONY FLOYD/The Observer 
r 
\ 
\ 
\ \ 
i 
I 
I 
l \ 
l 
l 
!
I 
' 
Battle was leading the team in 
passing and rushing yards. The
Battle 
my left wrist down cast off, and and I could feel kind "I'm gonna get the his injury was of a pinch in it." ball, and when I get taking a long
After the hit, 
it. rm gonna try to time to heal. 
Battle bounced right Eventually,back up and played score with it. ,, he decided it the rest of the 
would be best 
game, finishing with 
Arnaz Battle · if he didn't 
107 rushing yards. try to make a But he only com-
comeback. 
pleted three passes for 40 yards. "The bone that I broke was He knew something was wrong, going to be a long healingbut he didn't know how bad it process," he said. "It took week was. after week, and it got to the point 
"I didn't think it was anything, where I just didn't want to throw 
but towards the end of the game away a year and I wanted anoth­it was sore," he said. "After the er year." game, I knew something was LoVecchio's success also wrong." 
played a factor in his decision. 
But he had no idea how bad it "I don't wish bad on anyone," was. The next morning, Battle he said. "I wanted what was best 
went to have his wrist x-rayed. 
for this team. I wanted someone 
The doctors came back with bad who would go in there and take news -his wrist was fractured control and get the job done, and 
and needed a cast. Worst of all, Matt did that." he would be out six to eight By saying he would sit out the weeks. rest of the year, Battle ended any The loss devastated the Irish speculation he might play quar­
offense. At the time of his injury, terback in a bowl game. 
Friday, April 6, 2001 

page 12 The Observer . SPORTS 
"Obviously, things didn't turn out as I thought they were going to,·· he said. 
"I felt that moving to receiver was the right decision" 
Now Battle had a much more difficult decision in front of him. Should he stay at quarterback, or should he try to become a wide receiver? If he stayed at quarterback, he would have to compete against Lovecchio for the starting job. But if he made the switch, he would have to get used to playing an unfamiliar position. 
Through conversations with Davie and the rest of the coach­ing staff, Battle eventually settled on becoming a receiver.. 

"I felt my best option was for me and as well as the team was for me to move to receiver to eliminate the quarterback con­troversy," he said. "For me to just try to make it to the next level, I thought it would be best if I changed positions." 
"I had made the decision after we had won seven football games that the first day of spring practice Matt LoVecchio was going to be that starting quarter­back," Davie said. "I also real­ized Arnaz Battle is one of our 11 best players on offense." 
"It was a culmination of a lot of things, but in my gut I knew it was the right thing," he contin­ued. "It was one of those situa­tions that I felt, looking at it from the distance a little bit and see­ing all those things, that this was the right thing to do and the right time to do it." 
But when the team heard the news, Battle got some mixed reactions. 
"Some guys were for it, and some guys were against it," he said. "It's just one of those deals where you have to look out for what's best for the team and for myself, and I felt that moving to receiver was the right decision." 
"It was very difficult" 
It's definitely been a struggle for Battle to make the switch. 
The last time Battle played wide receiver was his freshman year of high school. He got some exposure to flanker while the Irish were preparing for the Fiesta Bowl, and as he quickly found out, it was much easier to burn high school defenses than play receiver in college. 
"It was different," he said. "I 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

SUMMER RENT AL Rooms for rent. $250-$400/mo. + Chicago two bedroom in Lakeview Roommate(s) to fill out house off Indiana Catholic couple with huge 821 E. Wash $100 up front deposit owned by Domer, nice closets, campus hearts wishing to adopt a child We FOR SALE 5 bed $200/mo (refundable). Include. Utilities, w/d, brick 6-flat, Hardwood floors, bright Call Michael@ 288-3429 can provide your baby with lots of Eric 243-2902 partially furnished, stove, refrig, apartment, decorative fireplace, love and a secure, stable life. 
micro. Call Robert 234-9387 (home) near el, heat included! May 1 Now hiring servers and hostesses Reasonable expenses will be paid. Hide-a-bed sofa, beige plaid, 74", Fifth roomate needed for first or 286-9387 (cell) 1250/month 773-472-7775 at LePeep -Downtown South For more info, please call Rebecca excellent cond. $200. Knollwood semester. House is close to cam-Benet. re Larry and Cathy: toll-free 1 -866­area. pus. Call Dan at 4-2091. 1 br sublet 5/15-8/15, Downers CHICAGO APT. AVAILABLE FOR Great Hours. great Pay, Great Fun! 30-ADOPT. 277-2510 Grove, IL, w/d, dw, a/c, great com-MAY THROUGH AUGUST IN LIN• 288-7337 
Turtle Creek townhouse available plex, room for 2 people, COLN PARK LOCATION. CLOSE I don't have to add it -just look on Europe $199 one way. for summer session $890/mo+util Rachel 312-498-6579 TOEL Need part-time leasing. Now to page 13 Mexico/Caribbean or Central Call 272-0915 1 or 2 BEDROOMS September. 20·25 hrs/week. Ame1 ica $250 round trip plus tax. ROOMS FOR GRAD WEEKEND OWN BATHROOM Organization skills, filing, phone. We're playing some concert band Other wide destinations cheap. If 3-bdrm home 2 blks from campus, Wild Irish Rose Inn $780/mo. Call Tara 272-1441 or 272 1461. girls? Give me a break you beat these prices start your Fall 01. 273-1566 3mi north of campus 1-312-443-6062 JAIME own darn airline! Book tickets on *brkfst buffet ea AM ROOMP.TE WANTED We better roll line www.airtech.com or toll free Nice 3-bdrm 1-1/2 bath *clean, comfortable & afford• New home Fall 2001 . This 3+ for next fall in 2BR 2 bath 

(877) AIRTECH. Tri-level, family room, fireplace, able bdrm, 3 bath homw is close to cam-Oakhill Condo w/ AC, OW, W/0. How 'bout them Cubs? fenced back yard, 2-car garage. (2190 277-4303 or pus with features like fireplace, For info call 243·8954, ask for Pete. $995/mo www.wildirishrose.com cahedral ceilings, family room, Grad student preferred. There's nothing ...nothing...nothing I Call 219-232-4527 deluxe appliances. 24x30 garage. can do.
FOR RENT Or 616-683-5038 Apt. starting June 1. 2 Bdrm 2 Bath. $1400/mo. Call 219-232-4527 or Graduating seniors: W/O Minutes to campus. Call 243-616-683-5038. Looking to sell your apartment furpi-Go me -I win most money again! 
4 Bedrooms, 2 full baths, washer & 0070. ture (beds. desks, couches. etc)? 5 miles from Notre Dame dryer, basement w/ hot tub, new ND juniors looking to buy. Call Nick I caught somebody looking Close to everything furnace, security system. Call to 3-6 BDRM HOMES at 4-4716 if interested. 
WANTED

4 bedrooms 1.5 baths recently see 277-0636. $180 per person So I might be going to Miami remodeled Furn. Summer/Fall Main level laundry finished base-Newly remodeled 5 bedroom house 272-6306 Returning to ND after college for I can dig that 
PERSONALS
ment available to rent tor fall semester. 2 graduate or law school? We are 2076 living area full baths, washer & dryer, huge rec 3 houses still available for 2001-02, looking for another roommate to Doyle, congrats on getting into plenty of storage room, security system. Call now to 5-6 BR, Furnished, W/0, prime share furnished house near cam-Notre Dame. I hear there are 786 can 256-0698 see 277-0636 locations, 233-9947 Greg pus. Call 289-5651 First, a word from our sponsor Caitlin's on campus 
~.,;..;.. ~ :..:•• ..:. •• ..,,:_;._. --•• -. .,;. .............. ~:..... _---~ --....... --,.....;. ..... -··· .. ~ w .,,. ... -· . ...-•.• .._,_, -·..,, •·« ·-~ . ·-·--•·*...,.•· ....... .,, -­
continued from page 20 
interceptions and only passed for 94 yards, causing many to ques­tion whether or not he could pass the ball effectively. 
But when the season finally started, Battle quieted most of his critics. In the opener against Texas A&M, Battle completed 10-of-16 passes and threw for 133 yards and two touchdowns. He also rushed for 50 yards and was named NBC Player of the Game. 
"Coming out and playing a good Texas A&M defense, one of the best defenses we were going to face that season, and having a pretty good game, I was very comfortable about the season," he said. "I was very jacked up about it." 
But the excitement only lasted one week. 
"After the game, I knew something was wrong" 
It happened on his first play from scrimmage -on national television against the No. 1 team in the nation. 
"It was the first play," he said. "I rolled out and avoided a guy as I stepped up. As he hit me, I was falling back and I thought I was going to fall on my tailbone, but I didn't. I landed 
coaches had spent all summer tailoring the offense to Battle's strengths. When a reporter asked Davie what the coaches did after hearing the extent of Battle's injury, he responded, "After we stopped crying?" 
Eventually, Davie named Gary Godsey the starter and an unknown freshman named Matt Lovecchio backup. But after a loss to Michigan State, when Godsey showed that he was unable to run the option, Davie named Lovecchio the starter. 
Meanwhile, Battle watched from the sidelines with a cast on his left wrist. 
"I thought I had a chance to come back and play" 
Although the doctors said he might be out for the rest of the season, Battle didn't give up. 
"I thought I had a chance to come back and play and get the spot back and contribute to the team," he said. 
Davie clearly wanted Battle on the field. Before the Oct. 28 game against Air Force, he said, "If Arnaz was healthy, he'd be the starting quarterback." 
But Battle wasn't healthy, and he wasn't the starting quarter­back. And as Lovecchio won game after game, Battle began to re-think his options. He didn't 
even have his felt very uncomfortable going out there and not knowing how to run the routes. The rest of the team was going full speed, and you 're going three-quarters because you're not really sure what you're supposed to be doing." 

"It was very difficult." 
But the quarterback-turned­receiver is slowly getting adjust­ed to his new role. And he feels much more comfortable lining up on the outside rather than under center. 
"It's not as much thinking as quarterback," he said. "It's just going out there ?. nd making plays, and 
he is able to read defensive schemes better than most receivers. 
"Playing quarterback brings more knowledge of the game," he said. "I know all the f orma­tions. I know where the different positions are aligned, and how to read defenses differently. know­ing where the safeties and the cornerbacks are." 
But learning the offense from a quarterback's perspective is also causing Battle some trouble. While his wrist has healed, he's plagued by a sore hamstring that slows him down. He also is hav­ing trouble learning the routes 
and adjusting to 

doing the the substantial right thing." "For me to just try to amount of run-
He likes make it to the next level, ning. , 
how receivers "He's not in
I thought it would be best
coach Joker the type of con­Philips is ifI changed positions. " dition to play working with out there yet," him, and he Phillips said.
Arnaz Battle 
says the rela­"He gets wind­tionship ed about every between them "is only going to other play. It's not from his lack get better and better." Battle is of effort, he's just not in great also getting a lot of help from ris­condition to be a wideout." ing seniors David Givens and "At the beginning of practice I Javin Hunter. feel fresh, but towards the end, 
"I think he's probably ahead of because there's so much running what we thought he would be I'm not used to, my legs get because he's catching the ball so fatigued," Battle said. "As a well," Davie said. quarterback, you are rolling out, 
"I think he's pretty much a screening out and running the natural out there," Philips option. As a receiver, it is that added. quick burst ·of speed. I have to 
get that burst speed back so I "I hope it's the best decision can go out there and make Amaz Battle has ever made in plays." And that is what Battle is
his life" 
focusing on -making plays. HeHowever, Battle still-has a long believes that his athletic abilityway to go. In order to earn a will make him a very excitingstarting spot in the deepest posi­football player. 

tion on the team, Battle must "We definitely have to get thecompete against Givens, Hunter, ball in his hands," Phillips said. 
Lorenzo Crawford, Omar Jenkins In fact, coaches are experi­and Ronnie Rodamer. And that's menting with Battle as a kicknot counting any of the highly returner. And Battle is extremelytouted recruits who will show up 
confident -not to mention

in the fall. 
eager -to show off his athleticBut the competition doesn't ability.

bother him. 
"I'm gonna get the ball, and"It pushes me to play harder," when I get it, I'm gonna try tohe said. "Our receiving corps is score with it," said Battle. 

very close. The guys get along It's this confident attitude thatvery well. Everyone is trying to 
has carried Battle through his

earn a spot, but at the same 
year of turmoil. And it's his ath­time, we come out and help each letic ability that makes Davie call other, doing what we have to do Battle one of the most excitingto lead the team to victory." 

players on the team. 

Battle's experience at quarter­"I feel really good about it,"
back is helping him make the Davie said. "I hope it's the bestadjustment to wide receiver. He decision that Arnaz Battle hasalready had knowledge about ever made in his life."
the intricacies of the offense, and 
Friday, April 6,, 200 l The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
WOMEN'S ROWING 

Bookstore Basketball 2001
Rowers ascend to first-ever 
Top 32 Rankings 
and Sunday, while the third Classic.
Special to The Observer 
varsity eight and the novice ros­After claiming four gold ter travel to Des Moines, Iowa. medals, including the varsity
The Notre Dame rowing 

on Saturday to row against eight, in the final regatta of theteam. in only its third season of Drake. fall season, Notre Dame hasvarsity competition. is ranked The San Diego Crew Classic defeated Tennessee (15 sec­
14th in the first US 
begins at 9 a.m. with the Men's onds). Creighton (28 seconds), Rowing/Collegiate Rowing Cal Cup. The Notre Dame varsi­Dayton (34 seconds) andCoaches Association Poll of the ty eight will compete in the national power Michigan State season. It marks the first time 
Jessop-Whittier Cup race at (two seconds) to begin the
in the young history of the pro­10:20 a.m.. while the Irish sec­spring.
gram that Notre Dame's top 
ond varsity eight will race in Notre Dame is showingboat has been ranked national­the women's junior varsity race tremendous depth this seasonly. The lightweight eight boat at 11 :50 a.m. as the Irish swept all six racesfinished the 1999 season In the Jessop-Whittier Cup against Tennessee and Daytonranked 12th in the nation. 
race, Notre Dame will be in and claimed the first and sec­Brown is ranked first with lane seven of heat one. Other ond novice eight races, in addi­475 points. Washington is sec­teams in heat on include: No. 2 tion to the varsity eight, against 
ond with 446 points. while 
Washington. No. 7 California, Michigan State. 
Princeton is third with 446 
No. 20 Oregon State. No. 18 Notre Dame won the varsity
points. The Irish have 121 
Texas. Stanford, and Duke. In eight and the first and secondpoints. 
the junior varsity race, Notre novice eights against nationally­
Notre Dame will compete 

Dame is in lane two of the third ranked Michigan State lastagainst six ranked teams and heat with Tennessee, Clemson, Saturday on the Grand River in four others receiving votes in 
Virginia, Orange Coast and East Lansing, Mich. Due tothe Jessop-Whittier Cup this 
California. Michigan State's normal racingweekend at the San Diego Crew The San Diego Crew Classic body of water being frozenClassic in San Diego. Calif. 
began in 1973. The University over. the races were rowed asIncluded in Notre Dame's heat of Washington and the Naval the best two out of three con­of the Jessop-Whittier Cup are Academy had developed a great tests over 1,200 meters on theNo. 2 Washington, No. 7 rivalry and when approached Grand River. 
California, No. 20 Oregon State, about racing in San Diego for a The varsity eight crew ofNo. 18 Texas and Stanford, who west coast regatta, they agreed. Katherine Burnett, Diane Price, received votes. In heat two are The first Crew Classic featured Becky Luckett. Casey Buckstaff, No. 12 Virginia, No. 9 USC, and more than 300 competitors in Michelle Olsgard. AshleeWashington State, Clemson and 12 races. This year's race, the Warren, Ann Marie Dillhoff,San Diego State, all of whom 26th in history. has over 3,000 Jayme Szefc and coxswainreceived votes in the latest poll. 
competitors in 87 races. Claire Bula pulled off the upset
The Notre Dame women's 

The Notre Dame rowing team sweeping both races from therowing team. ranked 14th in is off to its best start in the Spartans. Notre Dame won thethe nation, will split its squad as three-year history of the pro­first race by 2.8 seconds and
the first and second varsity 
gram as the varsity eight is then followed that with a 1.2­
eight boats travel to San Diego, 
undefeated heading into this second victory in the second
Calif.• for the prestigious San weekend•s San Diego Crew race of the day. 
Diego Crew Classic on Saturday 
1. 
5Reasons Your Girl Left You 17. Check Your Head 

2. 
Versatility 18. Porn Stars 

3. 
ND Today.com 19. If We Only Had Warren 

4. 
Majesties 20. The Torch 

5. 
Please Call Us Bosephus 21. Verzatility 

6. 
Nylon Strokers 22. Ballers Comin' Through 

7. 
Mourning Wood 23. Sexual Frustration VI 

8. 
Free Ballers 24. Ill-Tempered Sea Bass 

9. 
Project Mayhem 25. Rucker Park All-Stars 

10. 
Diaper Dandies 26. Bacardi.com 

11. 
Candy Rain 27. The Benchwarmers 

12. 
Nunc Dimittis 28. Rival Pipe 

13. 
Stategery 29. Krunct 

14. 
The Linebacker Lounge 30. TCB Band 

15. 
Five Degree Guarantee 31. Narnian Thugs 

16. 
Raw Dog 32. Burned Out Porn Stars 


TOP ·TEN TEAM NAMES OF 2001 
I. 
We'll Trade Looks for a Morally Casual Attitude 

2. I Can't Be1ieve It's Not Coco Butter 

3. 
For Us, 3 Seconds Isn't a Violation, It's a Record 

4. 
I am Jack's Creative Team Name 

5. Team Mangina 

6. 
Six Rowers, No Cox, But a Wang 




7. Tenacious STD 
8. Little Lebowski 's Urban Achievers 
9. Killer Boots, Man t! ! 
10. 5 Reasons Your Girl Left You 
J-1.Tho Says There,s .lVothing to do Spring Semester??? 

I 
I I 
F'.EA.T~<;••• 7 lbs of<;--roove C:oTnedy .A.cts .R.igh..t-I:Ca:n..d-Side IJJ To-..y C:a.k .l'\T~200:6. "HT"i..-..71.er -Slca.Tn.-.n.-.....-ra.ists 
T.E:IIS SATURlJAY!I I 
April ~h 
4-Bprn on The Knott KTZoll 
(benveen Knott and the Hesburyh Library) 
Free BBQ L-ive .19.-CI-Ls-ic 
Be There... 

• 
Friday, April 6, 200 l 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Notre Dame looks to bounce back on Texas road trip 
for the Irish. They have been prepar­Chidzikwe. By KATIE HUGHES ing by hitting Rally balls, which are The Irish will return home to face Spores Writer six percent larger than a standard Indiana State on Tuesday. 
"It doesn't get any easier when wetennis ball. 
After two straight losses that Meanwhile, SMU, 14-1 this season, come back," said Bayliss. "But what dropped their ranking from No. 10 to is coming off of a 4-2 win over lSU, can be wrong with going down to No. 16, the Irish hope to get back into and has the No. 4 singles player in warm weather and playing some the win column in their two matches the nation in senior Genius good teams?" 
in Texas this weekend against No. 32 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 

Baylor and No. 9 SMU. "It's good to get humbled once in awhile," said head coach Bob Bayliss. "The challenge is bouncing back. This year we've played some of our OLD BOYSbest tennis after a loss." The southern heat will also once again be a challenge for the Irish to overcome. TEMPORARY"We've been working on volleying, playing at the net, and trying to be more active at the net," said Bayliss. The doubles point will play a cru­cial role in the Notre Dame tennis teamOs match with No. 32 Baylor this weekend in Waco, Texas. When Baylor wins the doubles point, they are 8-0, but they are 0-7 when the opponent takes the first A rivalry renewed! point. The Irish expect a strong Old Boy's Rugby Squad tops undefeated Michigan showing from their 20th-ranked No. 1 team of Aaron Talarico and Javier Wolverines 20-1 3 in Ann Arbor Saturday, March 31 . Taborga but the No. 2 and 3 teams need to improve their play. Head Come support your local rugby teamcoach Bob Bayliss said he was con­sidering adding junior James on Saturday, April 7 at home Malhame to the doubles lineup to shake things up a bit. against Wabash College. Another uncertainty for the Irish is who will fill their No. 6 singles spot. Call John Friskel at 243-0428 for TIM KACAMAR!The Observer Either senior Matt Daly or freshman details and match time. Matthew Scott will fill the spot thisJunior Javier Taborga returns a shot during a match weekend.earlier this season. Taborga and Aaron Talarico form Disclaimer: Old Boy's are not affiliated with the University of Notre Dame.Playing on Baylor's slower courtsthe No. 1 Irish doubles team and are ranked No. 20 in However, all try-scorers ore university students. will be somewhat of an adjustmentthe nation.  
no need l-o dress up . . • · comedy srortz tvvo tean,s perforn, improv based on audience suggestions. complete \Nith referees, penalties, and points Steve byrne ne,n, york city con1edian, a regular at caroline's, stand up ny, and the co111ic strip. FRIDAY APRIL 6TH LAFORTUN·E BALLROOM FREE! ~ (fLJPC)/QD~ UHD•SMC•HCC  


111111111111_!_ 


Friday, April 6, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 15 





a national ranking of fourth, Alissa 
sports teams: After last The Irish bounced back
Moser simply dominates any 
Saturday's 13-4 v-ictory from their only loss of thedraw. 
against Ohio State, the Notre season against Hofstra by sti­
As a team, the Irish are just as 
Dame men's lacrosse team fling Ohio State's offensive
t~,00 ~ 'J'J~ 
impressive. The total offense 
looks to continue .its winning pressure last Saturday. The
earned a ranking of 10th in the 
ways this Saturday when Irish defense was outstand­
nation while the team is 16th in 
they host the University of ing and will be put to the test
total margin per victory. 
,,,.....,."'' 
Denver at 4:30 p.m. again this week against the
The Irish have a had a good 
Senior team captain Mike heavy attacking pressure of
start this season and are hoping to 
rhe Student Activities Office is nowaccepting applications 
Adams acknowledges that Denver.
continue the trend through this
for student etnployee positions 

the Irish need to continue to Corrigan said the Irish
weekend. Currently, Notre Dame 
play with the same energy as defense must be ready for
For the 2001-2002 acade,n/c year. 

(2-0) is tied with Georgetown {4-0) 
they did in the Ohio State Saturday.
for first place in the Big East and 
game. "Our defense played well
Posslble .oositions available: 

will be looking to improve on that 
"We played our best game against Ohio State," he said.
record against the Huskies. 
of the season so far against "We must continue to play
24 HOUR LOUNGE MONITORS 

"It's a big game for us," said 
Ohio State," he said. "Denver good team defense in order
BALLROOM MONITORS 

head coach Tracy Coyne. "It was a 
is a good team. We must to control the game." 
INFORMATION DESI( 8 BOX OFFICE ASSISTANTS 
disappointing loss last year to 
remain focused and play our While the Irish defense was
LAFORTUNE BUILDING SET UP CREW 

UConn and was a part of a season 
game." superb last week, look for
full of ups and downs." 
LAFORTUNE BUILDING MANAGERS 

This Saturday begins a crit­GWLL Player of the Week
Although the Huskies do not 
ical four game home stretch Tom Glatzel to take charge of 
ND CAKE SERVICE 

have any outstanding players, 
in which the Irish hope to the Notre Dame offense. The
ND EXPRESS 

· "their goalie is strong and they 
take command of the Great senior captain has a team­
SOUND TECHNICIANS 

have a solid attack," said Coyne. 
Western Lacrosse League in high 23 goals to go along
She is looking for an excellent
STEPAN CENTER MANAGERS 

order to secure an automatic with seven assists for a team 
team-on-team match up instead of 
STUDENT PROGRAMMERS 

bid to the NCAA tournament. best 30 points. 
key player-to-player match ups. 
With a 6-1 record, the Irish Despite Notre Dame's 6-1
STUDENT OFFICE ASSISTANTS 

"We have a balanced scoring 
are in good shape, but they record, Glatzel believes there 
attack caused by multiple games 
must take care of business is still room for improve­
Applications available outside the Student Activities Office, 
with at least 10 players earning 
against divisional foes ment.
3 15 LaFortune or on-line at www.nd.edursao/ror,ns 
points." 

Denver on Saturday and Air "We need to play a full
Notre Dame's first home game 
Force on Monday. game," he said. "We haven't
since March 25 begins at 1 p.m. 
"I expect Denver to give us done everything well for 60
A'Pl'LICATION DEADLINE IS FRIDAY, ll'PRIL 6. 
on Sunday at Moose Krause Field. 
a real challenge on minutes yet." 

The Snite Museum of Art presents the 





Matthew Bynum, Ceramics 


Thesis ExhibitioQ 
NEW t-shirt designed by Katie Annis available in the Snite Museum shop 
Dave Clark, Graphic Design 


Kim Clement, Painting flw :--i1111t-. 

\lw,dml ol \rl
Neil Fitzpatrick, Industrial Design 

(;• A~ 
.,\~7i\~t~0":-,­
•t+ ~;. 
Ryan Heltzel, Sculpture Katie Kennedy, Graphic Design 

I 
Elizaneth Lang. Photography 

f
Openi11g Receptio11 
I
Jenny Lewis, Photography 

I 
Jennifer Lis, Painting I
St1nday April 8, 2001 
L
Lori Mcrgler, Industrial Design 

-------··· 
Jo Mikals~Adachi, Painting 
2:00 -5:00pm
Christy Roese, Photography Adrienne Noelle Werge, Photography 

On exhibit through May 20, 2001 
Sponsored by the Snite Museu1n of Art and the Department of Art, Art History & Design and the University of Notre Dame 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
ND hopes to rebound against UConn 
Sunday. recent statistic release, Notre
By ANTHONY BISHOP 
The Irish are coming off of a dis­Dame appeared near the top of 
Sparts Writer 
appointing loss to Vanderbilt last several categories. 
weekend which ended a school Senior Lael O'Shaughnessy cur­The Notre Dame women's record six-game win streak. rently sits at 15th in the nation for lacrosse team returns home this The Irish are earning respect in total points on the season with 32. 
weekend to face off in a Big East several areas when compared to She is a valuable asset in aidingbattle against Connecticut on some of the top ranked teams. In a the team to a fourth rank nation­ally in assists per game. Also with 
MEN'S LACROSSE 
Irish seek to keep momentum going 
Saturday,". head coach Kevin 
ByJOE LICANDRO 
Corrigan said. "We have two 
Spores Writer 
games in three days that will go a long way in determining Maintaining momentum is our position in the Great 
the key to success for all Western Lacrosse League." 
.
l. 


page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, April 6., 200 I 
. 

Women 
continued from page 20 
the indoor season. She will run the 200-meters Saturday, an event in which she posted an impressive mark of 23.86 sec­onds last weekend at the Arizona State Invite. 
"I'm going to open her up where she can run in a race where she can get the competi­tion to run a fast time," Millar said. Last week she [set a per­sonal record] in the 200, so I want to keep building that for her. Once she starts running 400s she'll be doing it every weekend." 
Junior Dore DeBartolo has a busy day ahead of her. After 

\ \ missing the indoor season with a knee injury, she will compete in the hammer throw, shot put, dis­cus and javelin Saturday. "There's nothing wrong with fatigue, you've got to put it on the line sooner or later," Winsor said of DeBartolo, who rarely throws the javelin. "She can throw. the javelin. You just have to do what you have to do to win. Depending on how well she 
1, 
1 • 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

throws, she may end up throw­ing at the Big East meet." 
Another athlete competing in an odd event is sophomore Jaime Volkmer, who will participate in the long jump as well as her spe­cialty. the pole vault. 
"She long jumped in high school. She's a pretty good ath­lete," Winsor said. 
Winsor expects Volkmer to win the pole vault, but has been impressed with the perfor­mances of junior Natalie Hallett. senior Bethany Wilson and fresh­man Jill Van Weelden in the event. 
"Natalie got off to an outstand­ing start last week, vaulting 11­3," Winsor said. "Beth is looking pretty good. That's the biggest pole she's ever been on." 
In the distance races, senior Chrissy Kuenster and freshman Julia Schmidt qualified for the Big East championships in the 10,000 last weekend while Jennifer Handley posted an impressive time of 17:10.77 in the 5,000 meters. All three ath­letes will run the 3,000-meters on Saturday 
Field events start at 10 a.m. Saturday while running events begin at noon. 
Men 

continued from page 20 
Gilbert isn't the only sprinter out of action for the Irish this weekend. Freshman James Bracken and senior Terry Wray, Notre Dame's top two 400-meter runners during the indoor season, are also out. Wray has a sprained ankle while Bracken. like Gilbert, has a sore hamstring. 
"We've got aches and pains and some guys are sort of struggling with injuries right now," Millar said. "We're just going to have to do without them and hopefully get them back in the next week or two." 
\Vith Davey in the mix, though, the Irish tank is far from empty. The senior ran a career-best time of 21.71 sec­onds in the 200-meters at Stanford last weekend and will compete in both the 100-and 200-meter sprints in addition to the relay on Saturday. 
While the injured sprinters will be missing time, the Irish jump squad plans to compete with two of its most important members competing at less 
ND alum earns spot with Yankees 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. . The first Notre Dame player from the Paul Mainieri era to play in the majors earned a spot on one of the major leagues' top rotations. Parker played at ND in 1994 and '95, when he was a fourth-round pick of Expos. 
Rookie Christian Parker earned more than a roster spot on the New York Yankees. He carved out a slot in the rotation. 
Manager Joe Torre told the 25-year-old right-hander the good news after the Yank~es' exhibition game against Pittsburgh was rained out last Thursday night. 
"The first thing I said to him: 'When you came to camp, I didn't know your name. You made us, in essence, know who you are. And not by doing any­thing crazy other than going out there and pitching,"' Torre said. 

I 
Parker entered the fifth starter race as a longshot, well behind front-runners Randy t 
Keisler and Adrian Hernandez. In five outings, including three starts, Parker went 1-1 with a 
3.60 ERA. 
"There was a big smile on his face when I told him," Torre said. "That's the fun part of this job when it comes to this time of year." 
Parker is scheduled to make trts major league debut on April 6 against the Toronto Blue Jays at Yankee Stadium. 
"I didn't say a whole lot in there, I listened for the most part," said Parker, whose voice occasionalry cracked while talk­ing with reporters. "I told him I would be ready to go when it's my turn." 
"It's a huge relief, along with the obvious excitement. Unavoidable excitement. I'm ready to get the season going, that's the bottom line." 
Parker went 14-6 at Double-A Norwich last season. He was one of three pitchers New York pitching staff as far as the four acquired from Montreal for guys go in the league. I don't Hideki Irabu in December, have to be the ace. We have 1999. four aces. It's an honor to be 

Parker joins a rotation that with those four." includes five-time Cy Young Pitching at Yankee Stadium Award winner Roger Clemens, crossed his mind when Parker Andy Pettitte, Mike Mussina made his only visit to the sto­and Orlando Hernandez. ried ballpark last December. 
"It takes pressure off," Parker While visiting friends, the said of pitching with the four Albuquerque, N .M., resident established starters. "You're walked around the outside of talking about the premiere theballpark. 
/ 
•:~ . 
,. t· · 
:," 

~ RUNAWAY BAY 
Top JO Reasons You11FeelAtHome 
10. Convenient office hours. We are open every day of the week. 
9. As a resident you will be i~ed a private access card fo1 admittance to our fully-eqt,tipped exercise room and pool facilities..Conveniently open from 6:00 am to 11:00 Pm 
8. Our clause welcomes paws. At RUNAWAY BAY your pets are a welcome addition to the community. 
7. Your environment will be esthetically pleasing. Our property 
exhibits an idyllic setting; tall trees, velvety green lawns and . the tranquil resonance. of our waterfalls. 
6:. At RUNAWAY BAY you'll feel comfortable and secure. Our '· ··" 'property features 24 hour emergency maintenance and on-site .: •· l:~seairity. -•' 
·•·;r.f.·>~-. '· 

-··,5~ ;:.vpu can get back to nature! Our property is surrounded by /·> 2lakes, a gazebo, wi!terfalls and a variety of wildlife. 
. . :;. ,• " '.I'. 
:,r_, Enjoy a serene 1ifes~l~.'After hours we observe -·' ··: ,·. a quiet hourpolicyf;;~,. : 
·Travel time to your'.'iinportant destinations will always be less than expected. RUNAWAY BAY is within proximity to nearly 
everything! :.-· · 

2. Your social calendar will be full. Meet new friends at our residents events. i;. -. . 
1. And the 0;umbe:r one reason you'll feel at home at RUNAWAY BAY APARTMENTS... 
w -· _.· 

You1l become a·n,e,n1,er ofa great communUy that · " >. you can call HOME/ . 
·9ill us 7zr;:;1;;~73~at home. 
. .. h . .'&; b .
:. :·, . ttp~. WWW.runaway-ay.com ' . iii;:;;iiiii
if . 

than 100 percent. 
Quillian Redwine. who underwent surgery for a torn meniscus in his right knee less than two months ago, returned last weekend to clear 6-feet, 9 3/4 inches at the Purdue open. Redwine, though, is limited to the high jump and cannot compete in the triple jump, his other spe­cialty. 
"Put it this way, he. will be triple-jumping at the Big East meet," said Irish jumps coach Scott Winsor. "We just don't want to hurt him before it." 
In the triple jump, Mbagwu -who jumped over 50 feet during the indoor season ­also will compete at less than 100 percent. 
"He's working on some patellar tendentious," Winsor said. "It's pretty sore." 
In the other field events, Winsor expects solid perfor­mances out of both Derek Dyer and Juan Alba in the dis­cus, as well as from Josh Heck in the pole vault. 
"Derek Dyer got off to a good start in the discus out­doors," Winsor said. "The other guy who got off to a phe­nomenal start is our fresh• man, Juan Alba. To throw 150 feet his first time out, that's great. Josh Heck got off to a great start. He's going to do fine." 
In the distance races, Ryan Shay will compete in both the 5,000-meters and 1500­meters. Shay automatically qualified for the NCAA Championships in the 10,000 last weekend, posting a time of 
28:40.03 at Stanford. 

In the hurdles, freshmen Napolean Suarez and Mark Barber showed promise last weekend. Suarez posted a time of 53.68 seconds in the 400-meter intermediate hur­dles, while Barber clocked 
15.12 seconds in the 110­meter highs. 
"He's more suited to the 110 hurdles rather than the 60 because he doesn't have that short burst of speed." Millar said of Barber, who struggled with the 60-meter hurdles during the indoor season. 
The meet provides an oppor­tunity for every player on the Irish roster to perform in front of a home crowd. 
"The great thing is that a lot of kids can compete," Piane said. 
Wt would litto ilfmm Francaco•s Restaurant mpatromtbatduttotllt annal ofaFrancaco'a
121l Uncolnway West 
,aaddaughta

Mishawaka, Indiana 
Tit mtamant.m lit 256-1444 .cloHdfrom March l 8 dira lprll 8. 
We haw forwardtd oar phou to lilyoar Aaaiataat Manafcr bomt 
10 that ft wUJ. not mill my of yoar ramatiaaa, 
Yoa can rtaeh ha dmint tbe day@ rusB 237.6580 ormsdap lJl.0812 
u wdl • ovntplar bamaa pbont 2%. 1444, 
Wt apolopt fer any lncoannimcc: that tlda may C8111t om patrou. 
Monday-Thanday ~.g~o FridayaSatarday S:OO •11:00 Svnday 12:00 •9:00 
The Internship Program in The Dept. of Government Invites majors and students with an interest in government to the 
Fall Internship Informational meeting 
Monday, April 9 4:00 -5:00 P.M. 105 O'SHAUGHNESSY 
The internship coordinator and current interns will be on hand to answer questions. 
www.nd.edu/ ~go intern 
631-8248 


Friday, April 6, 200 I page 17
The Observer . SPORTS 

BASEBALL 
Notre Dame, Rutgers face off in crucial Big East showdown 

looked "Any time you match up luster hitting, 
extremely Notre Dame
two teams who are vying
dominating hitters have since losing for a Big East title. it's broken out in two games to always going to be a recent games West Virginia against Seton
great game." 
two weeks Hall and ago. Dayton. 
Meanwhile, Paul Manieri First base­Rutgers is man Joe
Irish coach 

SOFTBALL 
Notre Dame set to play UConn, Syracuse 
AN EASTER EGG H COUL 


header. "We need to make sure Syracuse Heading our offense plays consis­comes into this 
into this weekend's dou­
tently and that we beat
weekend bleheader with a 
N o t r e the teams we should.., 5-12 record on Dame has the season and a swept five 1-1 record in
Jen Sharron 
consecu­Big East play
pitcher
tive dou­after splitting a 
By COLIN BOYLAN 
Sports Writer 
The 22-5-1 Notre Dame men's baseball team will head to Piscataway, N. J. this week­end to take on Rutgers in a three-game showdown with league title implications. 
At 8-2, Rutgers currently holds the lead in the Big East standings, but Notre Dame is not far behind at 5-2. Both teams have played extremely solidly of late. Not counting a surprising 4-3 upset by Ball State, Notre Dame has 
riding a 10 game winning streak into what looks to be their toughest test of the sea­son. 
Head coach Paul Mainieri is excited about the game, but doesn't want to place too much significance on this mid-season matchup. 
"We have 26 games left on our schedule," Mainieri said. "You're always excited to play a tough team like Rutgers, but I expect our players to come out with the same fire and intensity they've shown all season." 
Nonetheless, Notre Dame will literally be throwing their best effort at Rutgers, starting staff aces Aaron Heilman (7-0, 1.17) 
By LIA GARCIA MILHOAN Sports Writer 
This weekend the Irish women's softball team travels to Storrs, Conn. to take on the Connecticut Huskies in a Saturday doubleheader. On Sunday, the Irish face the Syracuse Orangewomen in another double­
ble he ad­ers. Most recently the Irish swept Purdue, 10-2 and 4-2. The Irish are now 28-3 on the season and 4-0 in the Big East. 
In the Big East Preseason Coaches Poll, UConn was picked to finish second behind Notre Dame. However, the Huskies have struggled with a 9-16 overall record and an 0-2 start in the Big East. Nonetheless Notre 
doubleheader 

against Virginia Tech. The Orangewomen are in their inaugural season as a varsity sport. 
"It's their first year but we're going in with the same mentality [as the UConn game]. We'll look over the scouting report and get ready to play," said Sharron. 
"We need to make sure our offense plays consistently." said Sharron, "and that we beat the teams we should." 
Dame captain Jen Sharron said her team is expecting a tough match up. 
"Being Notre Dame it's like we have a target on our backs and being No. 11, we have an even bigger target," said Sharron. "We prepare for each Big East game like we're going into a big game. We wouldn't take them [the 
Huskies] lightly 
for a second." 

and Danny Tamayo (4-1, 1.64) on Saturday and Sunday, respectively. Sophomore J.P. Gagne (1-2, 4.88) will take the mound for the second Saturday contest. 
In order to ensure victory against Rutgers, Mainieri knows that his team will have to put forth a solid all-around effort. 
"We need to play solidly in every aspect of the game," he said. 
Fortunately for the Irish. it appears that this goal is slowly becoming a reality quickly. 
After several 
weeks of lack­
Thaman will 

be carrying a 10 game hitting streak into the weekend. while second base­man Steve Sollman boasts a nine-game streak and a .432 batting average. 
These numbers have comple­mented nicely with Notre Dame pitching staff, whose combined 
2.45 staff ERA is currently sec­ond in the nation. 
This weekend's game looks to pit two of the top college base­b a 11 teams in the country against each other, and Mainieri expects a battle. 
"Any time you match up two teams who are vying for a Big East title, it's always going to be a great game," he said. 
Friday, April 6,, 200 I

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS 

WOMEN'S TENNIS 
No. 8 Irish take two from Big 10 teams 
By STEVE KEPPEL 
Sports Writer 
The winning ways continue for the Irish, as the eighth-ranked Notre Dame women's tennis team beat Indiana for the sixth straight time on Wednesday. After a difficult start the Irish bounced back and trounced the Hoosiers 6-1. The Irish came back and won three singles matches despite suffering losses in the first set. 
The Hoosiers came out strong and won the doubles point with victories at No. 2 and No. 3 sin­gles both 8-3. Michelle Dasso and Becky Varnum gained the only doubles win for the Irish with an 8-1 victory over Indiana's Kelly Blanch and Levin. The fifth­ranked Dasso and Varnum improve their record to a team high 17-2 this spring. 
Being down 1-0 the Irish start­ed off strong in singles. Varnum won the first match in straight sets followed by another straight set victory from Lindsay Green 6­4, 6-4 at No. 5 singles. 
Freshman Caylan Leslie won a tough match over the Hoosier's 
J.J. Levin 6-3. 3-6. 6-3 at No. 4 singles to put the Irish up 3-1. but it didn't get any easier from there. 
Third-ranked Michelle Dasso had a scare but pulled it out in the end as she came back from a first set loss to beat Kelly Blanch 4-6, 6-2, 6-4. With the win Dasso improves to 12-0 against Midwest opponents this season. At the No. 3 spot Nina Vaughan clinched the win for the Irish with a three set victory against Linda Tran 3-6, 6­3, 6-3. Kimberly Guy closed the match with a 5-7. 6-2. 6-4 victory against Martina Grimm at No. 6 singles. 
On Thursday the Irish traveled once again -to Champaign to take on the Fighting Illini of Illinois. The 36th-ranked Illini gave the Irish a little more than they bargained for as Notre Dame squeaked by with a 4-3 win. The Illini were down all match but stayed strong to keep the score close. 
NEED CASH? 
NEW DONORS 
EARN $20TODAY 
MENTION THIS AD 
FORA$5.00 BONUS 
Up to $145.00 a . month in 2-4 hours a week 
SERA CARE PLASMA 
234-6010 515 LINCOLNWAY WEST 

' 
' 
f 
( 
I 
( I ( ( 


Want to write Sports? Call 1-4543 
"I am extremely proud of the way that we fought back today ­it was a tremendous rally," said Illinois head coach Sujay Lama in a press release. "We are a very fit team and I thought we would get the job done. We are right there with the top teams. we need to learn to capitalize and break through in a situation like today. We are playing good tennis, but we have to learn to finish off matches. and then we will be among the elite." 
Unlike against Indiana. the Irish came out on Thursday and swept the doubles point. The Irish won with ease at the No. 2 and 3 spots but the fifth-ranked team of Dasso and Varnum struggled against senior Simone Kung and freshman Michelle Web, who pushed the Irish team to a tie­breaker before falling, 9-8 (7-4). 
In singles the Irish looked as if they were going to make quick work of the Illini as they went up 3-0 with wins from Varnum and Vaughan at Nos. 2 and 3 singles. 
Instead of succumbing to the strength and talent of the Irish the Illini fought back as Kung defeated the Caylan Leslie. 7-6 (7-4), 7-5 at the No. 4 spot and fellow· senior Carla Rosenberg played a tough match and beat Green at No. 5. At No. 6, the Illini's Webb overcame a 6-2 first­set loss to fight back and defeat Guy in three sets 2-6, 7 -5, 6-3. 
With the match tied 3-3 it came 
down to No. 1 with all-American 
Dasso going against Illini fresh­
man Jennifer McGaffigan. Dasso 
took the first set 6-1 but like the 
T 
0 
D A 
y 

THE CALLING: 3:00 --7:30 
FREE PIZZA FREE POPCORN FREE SNOWCONES 
LIVE MUSIC: 
LESTER 
7 LBS. OF GROOVE JUSTIN DUNN 
tough play of the Illini all day 

LOCATION: IN FRONT OF ALUMNI HALL 
McGaffigan came back in the sec­
ond and won 6-1. It all came down to the deciding set where the experience and talent of Dasso took over as she clinched the hard fought victory for the Irish winning 6-3. 
After the tough match against the third ranked Dasso, McGaffigan said in a press release, "We have similar games and there were some really long points. I tried to stay out there as long as I could after the first set, I picked it up in the second set and played smarter." 



Friday, April 6, 200 I page 19
The Observer . TODAY 
FOURTH AND INCHES 

Fox TROT 
YOU'RE STILL AWAKE?? MOM SAID I I COULD READ IN BED.
'11­

TOM KEELEY 

BILL AMEND 
CAN'T YoU Do THIS IS THE THAT EARLIER? ONLY T1ME 
I 

PAIGE DoESN'T NOTICE HER D1ARY 1S MISSING. 
I 
C" 
jASoN, IT'S PRACTtCALLY MIDNIGHT! EVER"fONE ELSE 1S ASLEEP! 

11 .5oMe. one. L,~e. Vou" 1:, A ~ fC.0.t II clCI.te,11 
TYLER

THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS  30 Toe loop  54 Like fall leaves  
1 Secret holder  alternatives  55 Does in, in a  
8 Like some blankets  31 Funnyman Elliott  way 56 Major disruption  
15 Like a waltz  35 Strips on a map  58 ~old you so!"  
16 The very start 17 Music  37 Nowheresville 38 Chaff  59 Core 60 "Mont Sainte­ 
18 M1984" land 19 Toasts 20 They have bishops 22 Newspaper publisher Whitelaw 23 Pale yellow 24 Was on the bottom? 25 Like Bacon and Lamb: Abbr. 26 Rang 29 MHow stupid of me!"  39 Old-fashioned farm apparatus 42 Sprint alternative 43 Attacked, as a bag of chips 45 Cartoonist Keane 46 Tough wood 49 Super Bowl XXXIII M.V.P. 50 Carpenter's groove 51 Best on the balance beam, maybe  Victoire" painter 61 Surfaces DOWN 1 Drag through the mud 2 To a T 3 Kind of student 4 Dig discovery 5 Electra's daughter 6 Literary contraction 7 Alter, as an image 8 Is plucky?  
ANSW......,......,.._E__RTO PREVIOUS_P_u_z_z_LE__  9 Put up 10 Stumbles  
.....,........,_.;..,.;"""'  11 Figures to be maintained? 12 Purported Pentateuch penner 13 With 21-Down, Clarence Thomas's  Puzzle by Joe DIPletro 27 1999 N.C.A.A. hoops champs 28 A grad may be working on it 32 Xavier Cugat's nickname  40 "_that again?" 41 Cc;,rnered 44 Check 46 Jellied garnish 47 Stir up  50 Post office gizmo 52 Like many hurricanes 53 Depressed 54 York symbol 57 Follower of  
accuser  33 Frequency  48 Pickle producer  Lenin or Stalin  
"!"'!'+.,....,.E.....,_E,._N..,. N E S 0 P E R I C A N T  14 Kind of resistance? 21 See 13-Down 23 Long, as a garment 26 Part on the side?  34 Some vacation accommodations 36 He upset T.E.D. in 1948 37 Game, maybe 39 Babar's wife  Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95,t per minute). Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888·7-ACROSS.  

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON honest and valid advice. It's better THIS DAY: Merle Haggard, Billy to be safe than sorry. 000 Dee Williams, Michelle Phillips, VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Marilu Henner, Candace Cameron You will be uncertain about your 
Happy Birthday: Don't look personal life. Your attitudes and back this year. You must focus on opinions are changing and re-eval­your future and all that you want uation is necessary. Don't allow to accomplish. It's time to put an your mate to blame you. 00 end to projects that are going LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): 
nowhere fast and focus all your Secret activities will be most dis­time and efforts on the most concerting. You can find out fac­opportune pursuits. You have tual information if you feel it's plenty to offer any group that necessary. Stay calm and decide you join and should consider what action is best to take. Don't stepping up to the podium and be too quick to judge. 000 taking the lead. Your numbers: 5, SCORPIO (Oct . .23-Nov. 21): 13, 22, 24, 35, 37 You need some time and space 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): to go over your concerns. Study Take the time to do a good job. your motives and decide if your Your boss will appreciate your reasons for doing things are efforts. Get out socially with col­justified. 0000 leagues. You'll find out a lot if SAGITD\RIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. Z1): you're observant. Secret informa­Exaggeration will get you into 
tion can be revealed. 0000 trouble. Your version of the situa­
TAURUS (April 20--May 20): tion that your friends are experi­You are likely to overextend encing will be hurtful and proba· yourself if you take on major ren­bly wrong. You must be sensitive ovations at home. Try to do the to other people's feelings. 00 work yourself. Others may try to CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
dump their responsibilities on You'll be attracted to creative you. Be prepared to say no. 000 endeavors. Get involved in groups GEMINI (May 21-June 20): that can help you develop your 
Your loved ones will be angry if interest. Someone you meet will you spend too much of your time capture your heart. Don't be afraid gallivanting with friends. Make to start something new. 00000 sure you take care of your chores AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): before you take off. Residential Put your ideas into motion. You moves will be beneficial. 00 could have a real moneymaker ... 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): on your hands if you play your Don't spend too much on enter­cards right. Look for legitimate tainment or travel. Someone you investors who believe in you and work with may try to make you your ideas. 000 look bad. Be ready to defend PISCES {Feb. 19-March 20): yourself. Make sure you did your Probiems with lovers will contin­
work properly. 000 ue to mount if you have been LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't avoiding the issues at hand or 
be taken in financially by a "get using emotional blackmail. Your rich quick" scheme that doesn't lack of attention to your mate has hold water. Run your ideas past contributed to your problems. 00 
those in a position to give you 
Birthday Baby: You have a strong and stable way of handling any situation. You will find yowself in a lead J)OSition of any group that you join throughout life. You are a doer who cares and who always makes an honest effort. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, 
eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
C 2001 Universal Press Syndicate 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester Name ---------------------------­
.,
Address -------------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 

,\I 
,l 
t 
i' 
, I
! 
t11'.· r, 
; q 
I)')i:
. 
' .
I\\.·,.··.· 
.I ' J' 
' 
I . 
I Ll 
'' 
i I I 
f 
! 
Showdown in New Jersey 
Notre Dame is 5-2. Rutgers is 8-2. Both are battling for the Big East title. Both play each other three times this weekend. 
page 17 
O
THE 

page 20 BSERVER Friday, April 6, 2001 


FOOTBALL 

A new Battle plan 

ERNESTO LACAYO/The Observer 
This spring, Arnaz Battle is making the transition from quarterback to wide receiver. At left, Battle throws a pass during a Sept. 9 game against Nebraska. Battle broke his wrist on Notre Dame's first offensive play that game. At right, Battle catches a pass during the first day of spring practice. 
Arnaz Battle breaks in at wide receiver 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Associace Sporrs Ediror 
To say it's been a long year for Arnaz Battle is quite an understatement. 
The rising senior was supposed to have led the Irish back to national prominence. He was supposed to have been the focal point of the Irish offense. He was supposed to be entering this season as the undis­puted starting quarterback of the Notre Dame foot­ball team. 
But it took just one play to change his entire career. 
And now Arnaz Battle has found himself adjusting to a completely different role on Notre Dame's foot­ball team. 
"I knew that I was the guy" 
It's hard to imagine that one year ago Battle was preparing for the Blue and Gold game as Notre Dame's starting quarterback. And he knew he had the entire Notre Dame community watching him, wondering if he was going to be good enough to fill Jackson's shoes, wondering if he was going to be good enough to lead Notre Dame. 
"I knew that I was the guy," he said. "There's a lot of pressure on you being a Notre Dame quarter­back." 
But Battle was clearly comfortable in his role. In fact, during the summer, he even went so far as to predict a national championship for the Irish in 2000. 
Most people didn't agree with him. In fact, they didn't even think Battle could ever be a successful quarterback. When Notre Dame lost to USC his fresh­man year, Battle -in three quarters -threw two 
see BATILE/page 23 

MEN'S TRACK AND FIELD 

.. 
Best of Monaco will join Irish 4xl00 meter relay 
said. 'Tm sad for Tom. Hopefully he'll be 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 

able to go next week. It's just not the 
Sports Editor 

same without Tom." Sprint coach John Millar believes his 
With its top sprinter out, the Irish senior can handle the responsibility. men's track team looked long and hard "He seems to be able to handle the for a replacement on the 4x100 meter stick," Millar said. "So I'll give him a shot relay team -and the Irish found one. at it." One from far, far away. At last year's Spring Opener, the relay
Senior Marton Guylai, originally from squad consisting of graduated seniors Monaco, will join Travis Davey, William Chris Cochran and Marshaun West, "Red" Croker and Godwin Mbagwu on along with Davey and Gilbert, set the 
the sprint relay Saturday at the 2001 Notre Dame record, finishing in 40.22 Spring Opener at Moose Krause seconds. Stadium. Guylai will replace Tom Gilbert, "We'll try as hard as they did," Guylai who is suffering from a pulled ham­said. "But without Tom it's just not the string. same." 
'Tm sad and happy at the same time," Guylai, a resident assistant in Knott Hall, see MEN/page 16 
WOMEN'S TRACK AND FIELD 
Spring opener highlights athletes trying new events 
100-meter hurdles. 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
"We're going to try her out, it's more Sports Editor 
a workout," Irish sprints coach John MiHar said of his decision to have King 
When the Irish women's track and run the 400-meter leg, a longer race field team takes the track Saturday than she is used to. against Western Michigan and Miami To conserve her energy. King may (Ohio) the squad plans on extending drop out of the long jump after her first their lineup in the hopes of finishing two attempts. No. 1. "Tamiesha should win it for us," 
Many athletes will be competing in Winsor said. "I may cut her off depend­different events than their specialties in ing on her first or second jump, an attempt to maximize the team's depending on how far it is. I don't points. expect her to go NCAA qualifying this 
Sophomore Tameisha King, one of meet." the country's best long jumpers and a Sprinter Liz Grow finished second in premier hurdler in the Big East, will the Big East in the 400-meters during run a leg of the 4x400-meter relay as well as competing in the long jump and see WOMEN/page 16 
Rowing

at Baylor Men's Lacrosse 
~ at San Diego Crew Classic 
Today, 9 p.m. vs. Denver 
SaturdaySPORTS ~ It Saturday, 4:30 p.m. 

ATA 

• 
Baseball Softball Tennis at Rutgers vs. Connecticut vs. University of Chicago
GLANCE ~ 
Saturday, noon Saturday, noon Saturday, l p.m. 





