
Welcome, freshmen!
RAIN 

Saturday
Lost? Look inside for campus maps. Then check out the musical 
lyrics that speak volumes about freshman year.
HIGH 79° 

AUGUST 25, 
LOW6S0 
Scene . pages 17-20 
2001 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Daine and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 1 HTTP://OBSERVER.N D.EDU 


Big frosh class catches ND 'off-guard' 
. Unexpected number of confirmations prompts officials to house 91 students in study lounges 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER Assistant News Editor 
Many high school students want to attend Notre Dame. While the admissions office usually recieves this as good news, by the end of May it had 100 more confirmations than it planned for. At that time, preparations began to welcome this extra-large freshman class. 
"This caught us off-guard completely, this is the highest acceptance rate we've ever had," said Dan Saracino, assistant provost for enrollment. 
The admissions office uses the number of students who generally accept Notre Dame's offer of admis­sion to determine how many students it should admit for an optimum class size of 1,935. Unlike last year, when 57 percent of students admitted decided to attend Notre Dame, this year 61 percent of students decided to attend. 
To accommodate the additional students, 39 studv lounges in nine dorms were converted to dorm rooms. In the mod quad dorms -Knott, Pasquerella East, Pasquerella West and Siegfried -half of the six section study lounges were converted into triples. In the west quad dorms -Keough, McGlinn, O'Neill and Welsh Family -three study lounges were con­verted into doubles and three convertible rooms, designed to act as either a lounge or a room, were changed to doubles. In Dillon Hall, three study lounges were converted into triples. 

According to Scott Kachmarik, associate director of residence life and housing. the converted rooms offer several benefits over current rooms. They are car­peted, contain modular furniture and are more spa­cious. However, all of the rooms except the dual pur­pose lounges do not contain a sink. Students placed in these rooms were informed in a letter that they were placed in a converted study lounge and do not have a sink. In male dorms, mostly transfer students were assigned to the converted lounges and in 
see HOUSING/page 8 


Raising the bar: Class of 2005 
First-year ND, SMC students bring distinct achievements to campuses 
. Officials admit 
. Incoming freshmen 
University's brightest exceed Saint Mary's class to date diversity goals 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER By MYRA McGRIFF Assistant News Edi tor Saint Mary's Editor 
The Class of 2005 has done its Their acceptances letters are job to raise admissions stan­in, their bags are packed, and dards at Notre Dame. Like many their eyes are set on one mission: classes before it, this year's joining the women of Saint incoming class is statistically the Mary's. Some 441 first-year stu­best class to ever enter the dents moved in on Aug. 23 and University. made Saint Mary's their home for 
The class hails from diverse the next four years. backgrounds; incoming students The incoming students were traveled from all 50 states and very involved in their high 
51 foreign schools, countries to· including 
The officeThe middle 

study. at activies such 50 percent of Notre Dame. as yearbook, hopedfor 10 the class According to student gov­percent of the Assistant ernment or
scored class to be
Provost for habitat for 
multi­

between a Enrollment humanity. 1290 and a D a n The average cultural, and Saracino, 17 student had a
r470 on the some 60
percent are grade point
SAT and a minorities, 4 average of multicultural 30 to a 33 on percent are 3.6 and the students are the ACT from foreign 
middle 50 expected.
countr.ies and percent of the 7 percent are class scored
This week, some 2000 Notre Dame

the first generation of students between a 1020 and a 1220 on in their families to attend col­students and more than 400 Saint Mary's the SAT. lege. Eighty-four percent are The admissions office set out to
students moved into residence halls on

Catholic, 42 percent attended unite women from diverse back­Catholic schools and 47 perc,mt both ca1J1puses. The move-in was a major grounds and well-rounded lives attended public schools. Nearly and the incoming first year stu­
step in the lives of thefirst-year students, 

a quarter -22 percent -have dents met these goals with parents who are alumni. who this year distinguished themselves incoming first year students, 42 Although ihe class comes from transfer students and 19 Saint
from past classes-ofadmitted freshmen,

a diverse background, all Mary's-Holy Cross linkage stu­excelled academically and were enrollment officials at both schools said. dents. The office hoped for 10 involved in extracurricular . percent of the class to be multi­activities. The middle 50 percent cultural students and some 60 of the class scored between a photos by multicultural students are 1290 and a 1470 on the SAT and expected. Coming from countries
KYLIE CARTER 

a 30 to a 33 on the ACT; 34 per­of Boliviu, Bosnia, Great Britain,
and TIM KACMAR

cent of the first-year students Nigeria, Mexico and the 
see NOTRE DAME/page 4 see SAINT MARY'S/page 4 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Saturday, August 25, 2001 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Outside ofclass 
When my spring 2001 tuition bUl arrived at my house last winter. my mother looked at the thou­sands of dollars she owed to Notre Dame, reflect­ed on the hours upon hours I spend in the base­ment of a dining hall editing The Observer and exclaimed "I don't know why 
I just don't send this money directly to The Observer. That's where you spend all your time. I am basically just paying thow:;ands of dollars for you to work at The Observer." 
Now I as enter my senior year at Notre Dame, I am 

not particularly upset that Mike Connollythis will be my last year at 
Notre Dame. But I am utterly terrified by the prospect of Editor-in-Chief facing my last year at The 
Observer. 
This is the third and last Freshman Orientation edition that will ever feature my by-line. Next week I will work on my final first day of school issue. For the last three years my life and my education has come from The Observer. 
It's not that I never attend class or that I don't learn things from my professors. But attending class, earning decent grades and making my way towards a diploma next May is certainly a sec­ondary part of my Notre Dame experience. 
I will receive my degree from Notre Dame but my education from The Observer. 
As you begin your college careers at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, don't focus all of your attention on a piece of paper four years from now. Strive to earn good grades, make the Dean's List and stay on the road to graduation. But don't let classes get in the way of your learn­ing. 
Find something at this school that is your pas­sion. Join a chili, play in the band, volunteer at the Center for Social Concerns. You will learn so much more from your peers than you ever will in a classroom. 
During my time at The Observer I have improved the obvious skills associated with pub­lishing a newspaper. I am a better writer, more diligent editor and have developed a better eye for design and photography than I had four years ago. I have been forced into a leadership role despite any of my fears or perceived inadequa­cies. I have also gained a group of friends that always keep me on my toes and I know will always be there for me. 
I am not saying that everyone should run out and join The Observer staff (although we are hir­ing -come to our open house Sunday from 1-4 p.m.). I know The Observer is not for everyone. But there is something on these two campuses for everyone. Somewhere you can develop your skills, grow as a person and challenge yourself to become a better person. 
Good grades will get a degree and a degree will get you a job. But your experiences in college will shape the rest of your life to a far greater extent than any five page philosophy paper on Plato's Republic. 
Your parents are investing in your education and want to see a degree in four years to justify that expense. Just make sure your degree and your education is worth much more than a piece of paper. 
Mike Connolly is a senior American studies majorfrom Sparta, N.J. who derided to return for his senior year unlike another (and much wealthi­er) Sparta resident who now plays in the NBA. Contact Mike Connolly at connolly.28@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and mives for 1he highest standard. of journalism ac all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
Th.c Qb..,rv,,: (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Fri.day accpr during exam and vacation periods. The Obsrrver is a member of tlu: A.tsociated Prus. Ml reproduction righu arc reserved. 


Orientation Weekend -200 I 
Today 
10 a.m., 11 a.m. Hesburgh Library tour 10 a.m., 11 a.m. Snite Museum tour 11 a.m. Campus tour, Eck Center 1 p.m. Official Orientation Program. Joyce Center 
4:30 p.m. Information Fair, DeBartolo Hall 7 p.m., 9:30 p.m. Movie: Knute Rockne All American-, LaFortune Montgomery Theatre 8 p.m. Students meet with hall rectors and staff 
9:30 p.m., 11 p.m. Jazz Coffeehouse, LaFortune 10 p.m. -1 a.m. Frosh O' Fiesta, Stepan Center 

Sunday 
10 a.m. Mass, Joyce Center 
11 :30 a.m. Box lunch, Joyce Center 
12:00 p.m. Spirit ofNotre Dame performances, Joyce Center 1 p.m. -4 p.m. Observer Open House, South Dining Hall Basement 
1:30 p.m. Reception for minority students and parents, Joyce Center Monogram Room 2 p.m. -4:15 p.m. Academic Code ofHonor meetings, Washington Hall 

Monday 
9 a.m., 10:30 a.m. Academic life discussions 
10:30 a.m. -3 p.m. Enrollment, Joyce Center concourse 3 p.m. -5 p.m. Gender issues presentation, Washington Hall 
8:30 p.m. -midnight Football ticket Kickoff 


Tuesday 
8 a.m. Classes begin 
5:30 p.m. Opening Mass, Joyce Center 
6:45 p.m. Picnic dinner, DeBartolo Quad 

Toda y :~'"""~, 
... 4 .\ l'•., \ •, ,,-''""1''%'
/Wt)~· .,,·•· ,.••·····•"N••·••,., . ~ ' (; :;,<~ 9:30, 10:45 iiin>Academic briefing, Eie{!,tna Hall 12 p.m. O(~ntat(ort p{cr,,tc, £,lQtary Green 
1:30 p.m.Jife at a 'J4:omen•tt&((ege, O'Lau.ghlin 2:30 p.~,,:I1ealth1drff"W~ll~el'§~;iMttlticultqral Affairs 1esentatfon;~:0;E,'1ffrJ~litJ' . ') . 
3:30 p. , College o . ;~~P,,ei Angela Athletic Facility er Level, .. . 


Sunday 

1 p.m. Community Agencies bus tour, Le Mans bus stop t p.m. Music majors/minors orientation, 309 Moreau Hall 1 p.m. -4 p.m. Observer Open House, South Dining Hall Basement (at Notre Dame) 
2:45 p.m. Orientation counselor group meetings, locations to be announced 3 p.m. Contemporary Social Realities Part II, O'Laughlin Auditorium 

Monday 

8:30 a.m -10:30 a.m. Schedule changes, First Year ofStudies, 121 Le Mans Hall 
8:45 a.m. -10:30 a.m. Registrationfor first year students, Le Mans Hall Stapleton Lounge 9 a.m. -4 p.m. Football applications and yearbook distribution, Welsh Parlor, Haggar College Center 

Tuesday 

8 a.m. Classes begin 
4:45 p.m. Mathematics department exam 

Film, Television, Theater to sponsor 5 plays 
Special to the Observer 
Now entering its 140th season of theatre, the University's Department of Film. Television and Theatre will present five plays for the 2001-02 mainstage season at Washington Hall: 
"A Midsummer Night's Dream," will be performed Sept. 20-22. This popu­lar play combines comic chaos and magical romance as the world of the fairies collides with the world of humans. 
Alan Ayckbourn demonstrates his mastery of comedy with "How the Other Half Loves," a tale of miscom­munications that arise between two married couples during two dinner parties that will be viewed simultane­ously on the stage Oct. 10-14. 
In Sophocles' continuation of the woes of the family of Oedipus. "Antigone," Antigone returns to the stage as she suffers the consequences of the conflict between her duties to her family and to the state, to be per­formed Nov. 28-30 and Dec. 1-2. 
The London Stage returns February 20-23 to create a world both foul and fair where blind ambition leads to murder and revenge in this classic tale of riddles, apparitions, ambition and assassination in "Macbeth." 

Sure to generate much discussion at Notre Dame, the Bertolt Brecht play, "The Life of Galileo," translated by David Hare, pits scientific inquiry against the power and establishment of the Catholic Church, in the story of Galileo's struggle as his knowledge and morals are challenged by the church and by a society that fears change. 
Sponsored by the Vatican Observatory, the University's Reilly Center for Science, Technology and Values and its College of Science, "The Life of Galileo" will be presented in conjunction with an interdiscipli­nary conference April 17-21 . 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
S Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather• forecast for daytime conditions and high tern ratures 
................ ........ 
COLD WARN STATIONARY
C 2001 Acc..WNlher, Inc. 
,,,_.in: 

® © . ~ ~ iz:J CZ] D 
High Low 9how¦re A¦ln T•atorm, Flurrtaa Snow k:• 
V'i.l Associa/sd PnttUI 


Atlanta 90 71 Las Vegas 104 80 Portland 71 55 Baltimore 81 68 Memphis 90 69 Sacramento 90 78 Bootoo 70 64 Milwaukee 74 63 St. Louis 66 69 Chicago 78 65 New York 79 68 Tampa 90 77 Houston 92 75 Philadelphia 82 71 Washington, DC 82 72 



Saturday, August 25, 2001 The Observer . 2001-02 STUDENT GOVERNMENT page 3 
Ins and outs of campus leadership 
ND, SMC student government structure may be complex, but opportunities 
are available for freshmen to understand and participate 








story by JASON McFARLEY 
It's likely that more than half the members of the Class of 2005 arc entering Notre Dame with leadership experience on their resumes. If recent University admissions trends hold up, that experience ,vill come in the form of student government involvement in high school. 
But lirst-year students, beware: Notre Dame student government is not your high school's student council. 
Office of the President 
At the head of campus government are the student body president and vice president. Elected every February by the majority vote ofthe undergraduate student body, they take office April 1. 
"We work to bring everything together," said senior Brooke Norton, 2001-02 president. "We have many focuses, but our role is to represent student opinion." "We're basically working to serve students, being their voice," added Vice President Brian Moscona, a.junior. 
The Office of the President staff includes elected students Norton and Moscona and their appointees to the Chief of Staff position and to other posts in divisions just as academics, diversity, and service. 
A key concern of the Norton-Moscona administration will be communication, according to the officers. "We definitely want to have students provide input to us. We're trying to get more stu­dents involved in their student government," Norton said. 
Student Senate 
This body includes one elected student from each undergraduate residence hall as well as one senator who represents off-campus students. Senators are elected during the spring semester and take ollice in April. 
The group meets weekly. and members must sit on at least two of the senate's standing committees that target such issues as residence life, gender concerns and University affairs. 
The policy-oriented senate considers resolutions, which, if approved, are forwarded directly to administrators or the Campus Life Council. "The senate can reach every student on campus," said Moscona, who chairs the body. "Ideally, students will take their concerns to their individual senator." 
Campus life Council 
The council's membership relects all sides of Notre Dame residence life and includes administrator, faculty, rector and student representatives. The CLC's members are elected to the body from other groups, such as the Faculty and Student senates and the Hall Presidents and Club Coordination councils. 
CLC members consider resolutions forwarded to them by other groups, generally the Student Senate. In the past, the CLC has been the only body with student membership to make policy recommendations directly to tJ1e Office ofStudent Affairs. 
"It's hard to say what areas we'll focus on in any year, because, by nature, we have to look at a lot of dillerent campus issues,'' said CLC chair Norton. 
Student Union Board 
Think concerts, movies, and other forms of entertainment. SUB is responsible for orga­nizing and bringing these events to campus. 
Headed this year by Paul Krivickas, the programming board in the past has brought actor James Earl Jones and singer Ani Difranco to the University's Stepan Center. In March, former Indiana University head basketball coach Bob Knight spoke at Stepan. 
Annual SUB eventc; include the Collegiate Jazz Festival; the Sophomore literary Festival; and Antostal. the weekend spring carnival. 
Other student government 
If any of the previous arms of student government don't appeal to you, them are still other options. Getting involved in your class council is one way to get a foot in the student­government door. 
Each lhll. 27 first-year students are elected to their class council through their residence halls. The freshman representatives then elect from among themselves tJ1e council's four executive ollkers. 
In the spring semester, rising sophomores, jwliors and seniors are elected on a four-per­son class council ticket. The olticers then appoint other student'> from their class to com­mittee membership positions on the council. 
Individual dorms. of course, are also a prime place to pick up leadership experience here. 
There are many dorm commissioner positions avaiable to students as well as hall presi­dents posts. } [all presidents also serve on the campus-wide Ila.II Presidentc; Council. Bottom line: If you're not willing to !eave student government behind with your high school days, or if you're looking to get your first ta..'lte of power, the opportwtltios are there. 
Start by being on the lookout for rumow1ccments and position postings in your dorm. There will also be an open house Sunday, Aug. 26 in the Lafortune Student Center begin­ning at 6:30 p.m. 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley.l@nd.edu 

Observer file photo 

Michelle Nagle {left), student body president and Kristen Matha, student body vice president, have headed up Saint Mary's student government since April. 
story by LINDSAY MOLLAN and NELLIE WILLIAMS 
Freshman students at Saint Mary's will have a chance to catch a glimpse of their Board of Governance during this weekend's orientation. "[We] want to educate the students about who we are so that a student could never not know where to go," said Michelle Nagle, student body president. 
As a way of increasing accesibility for the students, certain BOG offices have been centrally located in Haggar. These open office hours are meant to encourage commu­nication between the student body and the president, vice president, Student Diversity Board president, 
"We want to educate

Residence Hall Association president, and Student Activities Board coordinator. the students about "BOG has an open door policy that students are able 
who we are so that a 
to tap into," said Nagle. 
student could never 

To help students become more involved in the col­lege, Nagle and Matha are working on revamping the not know where to go." BOG web page and creating a central calendar for all events and activities on campus. 
Michelle Nagle 

"We hope that students will become more aware of their Saint Mary's community and be encouraged to student body president participate," Matha said. 
Nagle and Matha hope that the freshmen will strengthen the clubs and help to empower the student body by taking an active role in student government. 
There will be informational meetings in the next few weeks about running for stu­dent omces. "It's an amazing opportunity to represent your classmates. Definitely go for it,'' said 
Nagle. "If it doesn't work out. don't stop there. If one door closes go try something else," said Matha. Nagle and Matha want every student to embrace the opportunities Saint Mary's College has to offer. "There are so many people here to help you. We all want you to love it as much as 
Contact Lindsay Mollan at molll36l@saintmarys.edu and Nellie Williams at will6176@saintmarys.edu 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Saturday, August 25, 200 l 
Notre DaDle 
continued from page 1 


graduated as one of the top live students of their high school class. Seventy-three percent participated in a varsity sport, 37 percent were the captain of one or more sports teams. 45 per­cent were involved in an art, music or theater activity, 13 per­cent were editors of their high school papers and 6 percent were either the senior class or student body president. 
The University has begun compiling a new statistic -the per­centage of students whose parents are educators. This year the number stands at 24 percent. Saracino said this is impressive because the parents are in the business of education and respect the quality of a Notre Dame education. 
According to Saracino, the quality or linancial aid packages has fueled the increase in the caliber or students that choose to attend Notre Dame. The University now meets 100 percent of demonstrated noed and has dedicated $13 million in University need-based scholarships this year to the freshman class alone, $3 million more than last year. forty-four percent of freshman received need-based assistance this year, and Notre Dame wants to continue to increase the amount of financial aid it can offer. 
"The competitiveness of our scholarship derisions is very close to the finest institutions in the ..ountry, sometimes better. We want to continue to grow our scholarship funds to address affordability concerns and the levels of debt," said Joseph Husso, director of financial aid. 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at brodfuehrer. l@nd.edu 
Saint Mary's 
continued from page 1 
Philippines, the Saint Mary's community will see 14 percent of students who are multicultur­al. 
"Our goal was to increase the number of incoming first year [students] from last year's 438 and we did. W(~ wanted to increase the numbr,r or expncted multicultural studrrnts and we did. We always want to maintain the quality of Saint Mary's. and this class is a strong one," Mary Pat Nola.n, director of admissions. said. 
Through the combined efforts of the Multicultural Office and the Leaders of' New Indiana (LONI). the admissions office met and exceeded their goals. One new recruitment method employed the help of the National Association of College Admission Counseling (NACAC). Through the NACAC's onlinc college fair, Saint Mary's created a virtual booth -a page or information where prospective students could log in to livr, chats with admission staff and Volunteers in Support of Admission (VISA) students. Saint Mary's, participating in nine themed online college fairs over the 2000-2001 academic year, became a viable option for any student with Internet access. 
"It givPs students expanding opportunity and we will see greater participation next year," Nolan said. 
Along with new recruiting methods, admis­sions also leaned on its usual methods. Traveling to some 35 states and countries. admissions staff attended high schools and national college fair nights. trying to convince students to consider St. Mary's. The office also recruited many multicultural students l'rom col­lege fairs held by organizations with diverse backgrounds. 
"We worked with fairs like the National Hispanic Institute, the National Scholar Service, United States Hispanic Leadership Conference, National Hispanic college fairs," Mona Bowe, associate director of admission, said 
Working with these organizations over the years, the admission office continually adds on to the number of fair they attend. To recruit the incoming first year students. the office traveled as far east as Cleveland and as far west as California attending multicultural fairs. However, no matter how many students are recruited from fairs and high school visits, Nolan stressed the impact students play. As current students participate in campus tours and hosting prosper.tive students, they make Saint Mary's visible. 
"They are sharing the experience of Saint Mary's by outreach," Nolan said. 
Contact Myra McGriff at mcgr0l8l@saintmarys.edu 

Acee 
Cell Phone.s 
Top 5 Reasons to Buy a Wireless Phone For Your Student 
i. Save on Long Distance Phone Charges 
2. Accessibility (No Busy Signals, No Sharing Dorm Phones) 3 Safety Issue -On or Off Campus (911 Available Within Network Neighborhood) 
4. Cure tor Homesickness 

5. Free Phone & Multiple Neighborhood Weekend minutes. 1 year Accessories (See Coupon Below) con1,ac1) $4900 Value 
fStandard-ND-Pack-age-Specials-7 Basic Plan 
:$39.99 Plan & Up -Over $150 Value : 575 minutes/1 g99mo.* 
1-FREE Nokia 5190 Phone : (lncludea75whenevermlnute••nd500 
l-FREE Distinctive ND Fight Song Ring I Neighborhood Weekend mlnu1e, · 1year 
:-FREE leather Case : con1racl) 
1-FAEE Hands-Free Handset I "F Ph ., 'th ch plan 
:-FREE Home/Dorm Charger : Americ:e;,,11 .f,e~'!i~n -~ly $!~addilionaVrno 
1-FREE Caller ID I 
'-FREE Voice Mail : All stores are convenlenlly located Inside 
l-FREE Numeric Paging •JACKSON HEWITT 
:-FREE Digital Roaming in : TAX SERVICE 
1 IN, Ml, IL, OH, WI, MN, IA I 
:oetuxe ND Accessory Package : -1725 Ironwood Dr., South Bend· m-3201 
1 1 (Near ND on SR23 & Ironwood) 10ver $220 Value 1-1516 Portage Avenue, South Bend• 2.33-272.7 1-FREE Standard ND Package I (Near ND on Elmwood & Portage) 
: PLUS : -922 S. Merrifield, Mishawaka · 259-3278 1-ND Licenced Face Plate ($29.95 Value) I (12th & Merrifield -Kroger's Pla2a) I PLUS 1 -4331 W. Western Ave., South Sand -282-1040 
LMulti-Colored Laser Antenna ($24.95 Value): (Martin's/Osco Plaza) 
'R~ I 
:.car Antenna or Car Charger : 'Some realrlction, may opplY. See slOro ,., delaib. 
l-AII for Only $49.95 L-~-'"' """""'""1,,._.... _.~,.. wi-..c • .,,.R... 
Lc~~~~T!'.:.5_o~~~~~----------J 
R E N 0 V A T I 0 N 


BUILDING HESBURGH LIBRARY FOR Tt··iE FUTURE 

Renovation ofthe Hesburgh Library's lower level has begun and will continue for many months. During that time, you can expect to encounter noise, dust, moves ofstaffand services, reduced seating, crowded conditions, and general inconvenience. The staffofthe library are committed to making your library experience as «normal" as possible. For up-to-date information about the renovation, please go to: 
http://www.nd.edu/-renovate/ 


Saturday, Augusc 25, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
Hot Topics: Last Year on Campus 
. 
By Jason McFarley 

It's tough enoughfinding the way from the dorm to class to the dining hall and back. First-year students don't want to get lost in the conversation loop, too. Briefly, here's a look at the last year's news at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's that might still come up in conversation on both campuses. 

~Underage Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students were involved in police raids at two popular South Bend bars. An Oct. 13, 2000 bust of Finnigan's netted 14 7 citations, and one at Benchwarmer's on Jan. 25, 2001 resulted in 18 students being ticketed. Busted students were cited on minor in a tavern charges and faced state law­imposed fines and community service in addition to University-imposed sanctions. 


PETER RICHARDSON/The Observer 

1' On Oct. 24, 2000, then-vice-presidential candidate Sen. Joesph Lieberman, D-Conn., talked up religion to a packed Washington Hall audience on Notre Dame's campus. The speech by the liberal politician was met with protests outside the Hall as well as a brief interruption inside by a pro-life advocate. President George W. Bush was the keynote speaker at Commencement last year, and used his first commencement address as president to discuss faith-based charities. 
TONY FLOYO!The Observer 

~Last fall and winter, leukemia claimed the lives of three people with Notre Dame ties. On Sept. 20, 2000 20­year-old junior Brionne Clary died. On Jan. 29, 2001, San Diego native Scott Delgadillo passed away. In the fall, the 14-year-old spoke at the pep rallv before the Notre Dame­Pu/d ue football game. Two days later, junior Conor Murphy died at age 20. 
PETER RICHARDSON/The Observer 


+-Women made major break­throughs at the University in 2000-01. In the fall, then­senior Molly Kinder became the first woman selected to the Irish Guard, which leads the Notre Dame marching band onto the football field before games. In February, then­junior Brooke Norton was elected the first female student body president. 
PETER RICHARDSON/The Observer 

. While "The Vagina Monologues" was performed on campus in 2000, Saint Mary's President Marilou Eldred nixed plans for a repeat performance ol'tlw controversial play in 2001. What ensued at the College was a months-long battle -that included a student forum in January, a sit-in outside Eldrcd's ofiicc in February and an unauthorized performance of the "Monologues" the same month -centering on academic freedom. The Campus Alliance for Hape Eliminiation (CAI-lE), the group believed responsible for organizing and participating in the unsanctioned production, was later requested to write let­ters of apology to the Board of Trustees. The "Monologues" explore issues of rape aware­ness and female sexuality. CHRISTINE KAAI/The Observer 



page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Saturday, August 25, 200 I 
ROTC freshmen converge on campus 


PETER RICHARDSON/The Observerr 
recruiting reserves.
"Jt's challenging. Parts of
tool, students Amy Elliot get to see a it are Jun. but parts ofit served in the 
showcase of are like 'Oh my God, just guard for 
what we two years
shoot me!'" 
have." said and three Maj. Gary months and Masapollo. Diana Herr will attend 
Students Indiana
Army ROTC cadet 
were able to University get into the South Bend humvee and and Theresa learn about the operation of Brown served in the reserves 
the MK-19 grenade launcher and will attend Notre Dame. mounted to the roof of the Although the orientation pro­humvee. According to Spc. gram was a review for the Jonathan Reed, the grenade women, they will help the launcher is mounted to vehi­freshman become acclimated cles used in perimeter security to Army life. and was used in the Desert "We will help them with 
Storm conflict. A UA 60 basic stuff and details of Army Blackhawk helicopter from the rules, like how you wear your Illinois National Guard flew in belt and how you shine your from Decatur. Ill., and landed shoes," Elliot said. on the field in front of the Rolfs The humvee was provided by 
Sport Recreation Center. The the 428th Military Police pilot gave a brief overview of Company based in South Bend. the operation and usage of the According to Capt. Norma aircraft and students could sit Ayala-Rosa, the company con­in the helicopter and in the sists of 124 soldiers and during pilot's seat. a military conflict, the compa­
The cadets spent their first ny could be deployed in a con­days at college learning the flict to guard and care for basics of being in the Army, refugees, such as after the 
amount of scholarship money 
in the program. 
"We definitely have had a 
banner year this year as far as 
the number of cadets. 
Especially compared to the 
other services, we really have 
done well. It's just incredible, 
we arc pumping in close to two 
million dollars in scholarship 
money," said Sturgell, the 
Deputy Commandant of Cadets. 
The Navy's midshipmen 
arrived on campus Sunday and 
have been preparing for a drill 
competition and uniform 
inspection. 
"The different platoons com­
pete against each other in a 
drill competition and do a uni­
form inspection. And then we 
have a big cookout where the 
staff cooks for the students," 
said Lt. Phil Prentice. 
Within the services at Notre 
Dame, the Navy has a reputa­
tion of doing the most march­
ing and military training, but 
Prentice said the program is 
not overly challenging. 

"All [the services] do physical training, but we might march a little more than they do. we are preparing for a drill competi­tion. I'm not sure overall that we're really hardcore and rig­,orous. We do try lo teach them as much as we can," said 
Prentice. 
A common thread in all three 
service programs is thn atten­
tion paid to the parents. 
including picnics. golf scram­
bles sand reassurances that 
their student will bu well takrn1 
care of. 
"My folks have done a great 
job. I think the parents have 
enjoyed this just as much, if 
not more, than the cadets," 
said Lt. Col. Dave Mosinski, the 
Army's Commanding Officer at 
Notre Dame. 
Kosovo conflict when refugees came to the United States seek­ing asylum. 
The 56 Air Force cadets spent their days at orientation completing requirements, including a fitness test and a five hour examination. Thursday night was the culmi­nation of their events at the 

Sacred Heart Parish Center. The cadets and their families attended Mass, had a drill cer­emony outside, took the official oath to become part of' the pro­gram and had a picnic. 
According to Capt. Jeffrey Sturgell, the Air Force pro­gram has been impressed with the number of cadets and the 
. Services draw 100 freshmen, millions of scholarship dollars 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER Assistant News Editor 
A humvee mounted with a grenade launcher drove down Juniper Road and a blackhawk helicopter landed on campus Wednesday morning, but the Army wasn't responding to parietals protestors, it was conducting a demonstration for 18 freshmen joining the Army's Fightin · Irish Battalion, which consists of students from area colleges. 
"It's a 
such as how to wear the uni­fo rrn and basics about the Army itself. The goal of lhe entire Army ROTC program is to prepare cadets to become a Second Lieutenant. 
The incoming cadets had a variety of reasons for joining Army ROTC, but main reasons included scholarship money and job security after gradua­tion. The students were mostly impressed by their Army orien­tation experience. 
"It's challenging. Parts of it are fun, but parts of it are like 'Oh my God, just shoot me!'" said Saint Mary's freshman Diana Herr. 
All of tbose in the orientation program were not new to army life, though. Two had prior ser­vice experience, in the guard 
and the 

An upperclassmen brings Army ROTC cadets to attention in preparation for a presentation about the UA 60 Blackhawk heli­Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at copter. The army students were then able to tour the helicopter, which was brought to campus as part of a recruting effort. brodfuehrer. l@nd.edu. 
' 
Saturday, August 25, 2001 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 

Welcome Back 
SSPI -NYSP -LIP ­

SOCIAL & ACCION Students CONCERNS 


Center for Social Concerns 
Summer Service Project Internship Celebration 
The Center for Social Concerns would like to welcome the Summer Service Internship students back to campus with a celebration to share the wonderful experiences that each student had over the summer while participating in summer programs. 
You will also arrange for a follow-up meeting at this time....except NYSP, ACCION) 
(unless you are participating in the Retreat on 9/8 from 9:00 AM -5:00 PM) 
R Group photo will he taken at the celebration. Please bring photos from your summer eHperiences! 
Date: Monday, August 27, 2001 
Time: at 4:00 PM until 5 :00 PM 
Place: Center for Social Concerns 
DON'T FORGET TO SIGN UP FOR YOUR 20 MINUTE "DEBRIEFING" 
For further information call Tracy at the Center for Social Concerns at 631-9402 


By JASON McFARLEY 
NewsEdicor 
Forget the campouts. Never mind the carnival-type events. 
Spurred in part by adverse stu­dent reaction to past procedures, Notre Dame student government officials have scrapped the gim­micks and gone back to the drawing board to create what they hope is the ideal football ticket distribution system -one that is fast and convenient. 
The system in place this fall. Kickoff 2001, comes in response to student concerns about waiting in long lines for tickets and attending tedious. undesirable events to get into the lottery sys­tem. Kickoff is, in effect, a modi­fied version of the 2000 distribu­tion method. 
"We talked to students and looked at the system from last year." Peter Rossmann, senior class president, said in April. "What we found is that students want us to simplify the process as much as possible." 
Last year, students attended a picnic complete with games and blow-up toys at Stepan Center. There, University ushers issued lottery stickers for students' ticket applications. 
At the end of the night, officials drew a number to determine which student would buy tickets first. Sales proceeded numerically from the selected number, so that students with lower numbers than the chosen one bought tick­ets after students with higher numbers. 
The first ticket-buyers were 

Officials modify 
ticket distribution 
expected to purchases their sea­son passes at 7 a.m. the next morning. 
Changes this year include coor­dinating the distribution of lottery numbers with enrollment day on Monday and providing a timetable that estimates when students with particular numbers can purchase tickets. 
"People can go to enrollment on Monday at the Joyce [Center], then cross the street to pick up a lottery number [at the Stadium box office]," Rossmann said. 
First-year Notre Dame students can obtain ticket applications in their residence halls. A six-game student season ticket this year costs $114. a price that reflects a $1 per-game increase over the 2000 charge. 
A 2001 season ticket is $152 for Saint Mary's and Holy Cross stu­dents. 
The revamped procedure is the third in as many years. 
In 1999. the lottery-style system allowed students to camp out in the concourse of Notre Dame Stadium over a three-day period. 
Prior to that change, students camped outside the Joyce Center the night before ticket sales. Student alcohol consumption, safety concerns and trash on the site, forced University officials to abandon the unofficial system. 
Other changes could be in store. Recent surveys conducted by the Student Senate indicate that most Notre Dame under­graduates favor a mail-in distrib­ution system. 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley. l@nd.edu. 

Centennial wants to free you from a life of digging in the couch for loose change just to buy a pizza. So for a limited time we've knocked 40 bucks off our Express phone. Now you can talk all you want wherever you want without blowing a lot of dough. Our talk plans start as low as $15. And it's prepaid -no monthly bills. So you don't even have to waste money on a stamp. There's not even a credit check. Because talking more for less is easy with Centennial. Relax,you'nwithfriends. 
@ 
CENTENNIALGP 
W A E L E S S 
LOCATIONS:  SOUTH BEND  SOUTH BEND  MISHAWAKA  PLYMOUTH  NILES, Ml  ROCHESTER  
850 s. Marietta  6341 University Commons  UniVersity Park Mall  2522 N. Oak Rd.  2010 S. 11th Ave.  Enyart's True Value  
(219) 298-9100  {219) 298-9150  (219) 271-8999  (219) 935-0033  (616) 684-7000  Hardware  

(219) 292-6672 

Sa!et. t?,. www.centennialwireless.com 
"-'rmoot •• ~call Olfer for $40 ofl Uniden PCD 2000 upreu phone only. Centennial bpcm requires purchn~ of hpres1 phone ptu1 £xPft1\ Talk ai,11me tG!d. You hav. up 10 6m011\h1 lo m your aillime md. If you run oul al altllme, your toll w11! 11rmlna1,. II Expm1 mlomer does nol repltAilh,phont by •tliuling • ••• bpm1 Talk olrtim, md within 6 month,, tbe phone servi<e will b, letminated. Airtime charvei are billed I~ full unit increments. Coils mad~ I.ram non-Centennlal areas may incur long distance thar 11. Oller ends September 9, 7001. 
~~ . . . ' . • ' • ' ','·. ,_ •• " ",j,' • •.• ' :-•-·, ,... ,, ', . .. . -'. ' '' • ,, 
page 8 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Saturday, August 25, 2001 
new adviser position was added to the First Year of
Housing 
Studies. Students should only see larger classes in thecontinued from page 1 Psychology and Engineering. 
female dorms, mostly fresh­"We were able to manage by men were assigned. providing extra sections, and "The thing to with the keep in mind is addition of 
who's placed in "ffthere are extra the new 
these rooms. students, we need to open adviser Lhe The freshmen number of
our doors to them. vVe
students students 
[placed in the will probably set up each adviser 
rooms] are alternate study spaces, has actually those whose has gone
but part ofthis is having 
confirmation down." said 
to tell students to
cards were Associate received late. deal with it. " Dean of the after May 1." First Year of Kachmarik Studies 
Father John Herman
said. A n g i e 
Rectors arc O'Neill Hall rector Chamblee. asking for stu­To avoid dent's patience having too and understanding with the many students next year, the fact that there is a 1.oss of admissions office will decrease study space and for those stu­the number of students that it dents that do not have a sink. offers admissions to. 
"Certainlv it's a loss for the "Next year. we will be hall. but ( can't really com­admitting fewer students and plain because [West Quad will be more cautious," said dorms] have more study space Saracino. than the rest of the dorms. If there are extra students. we Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at need to open our doors to brodfuehrer. l@nd.edu 

them. We will probably set up alternate study spaces. but part of this is having to tell students to deal with it," said O'Neill Hall rector Father John Herman. 
Two years ago, study lounges were also converted to dorm rooms, and, according to Herman, the lack of a sink was not a major issue. 
"Guys [in the converted lounges] just have to use the bathroom more than others," said Herman. 
With the additional students, changes were also made in academic and advising depart­ments. Additional sections were added to classes and a 


Welcome Students 
The Observer News Department is looking to fill the following positions: 
. 
Copy Editor 

. 
Wire Editor 

. 
News Writer 


Anyone interested in these jobs should call 631-5323. 

For your convenience the following Student Service Offices will be open under the "Golden Dome" 
:·~~ ·~-/-_~,.--·-~­.. \::.<... >"':.·,:,. --.,~~ :-tztt.) -:~:-~:~~-;· .\_L~\~ :~~-,=,--:>7-::~~:-JEJitt-: ~.~!t.­'.· .· :~@t'•l~~~~f~;~:~iii}J{~~tr~.f,.,.• . , .  
_.  -...~::;:r~:J./-;..• ):·-~,)"  , ~fi-·__ --•-. ~  "-;  
Cashier Services  121 Main Building  
Financial Aid  115 Main Building  
Registrar  105 Main Building  
Student Accounts  100 Main Building  
Student Employment  115 Main Building  
Residence Life and Housing  305 Main Building  
Undergraduate Admissions  220 Main Building  

Regular business hours are 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday. 
Saturday, August 25th, 200 I The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 

Why t~e/Academy .and the Church :Should, Preserve 
.. ,i : . 
. -. . 

the Lati,11·.Language 
.An informal conversation with 
.Regi11ald Foster, O.C.D. 
. 
hursd . , ... . 0,. 2001 
. . . -_.. . . : 

·4 p.m . ... , ·····••.·········· !Courtroom 
....... ··. ·.·• .·t···.•.··•·•· L .·· Sponsored.. by: j the,{Jepdrtment ofClassics, .· •. . · · ..· the Medieval Institute, . · the Beparfment of Theology ;Notre· Dame Law School 



Saturday, August 25th, 200 I 

page 10 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

R•frlverotor M•dI••••-,. 
•F,..,.,..,111.kocub.lra)' $Jq Aft.,
•Ailfv,lol,lo "111-.ilic 

t1t....oital. l hJll-..ldlh . Mall bt ...... 
nfrig_.,.. iholflllAOO 

•13 II"'"• l.oonl •4 ,....,oil,
lid.. •ldMI for ohol""'9 1101361 
Improving Home lmprovemen·. 
S.69 
a"xa•x 16" 
Concr.t• Black 
•Stwcfy, 011-t>u,,_• i..,,1,1.,. bloct•\03113 


23.5 Oollon 
s1996
Storo locbr •32'Lxr1"W" J211."tf 

• l<l,1-<..l1taN -.I plattd la1cht1 

or Apartment 

•M..W-41" hondl• °" ........ .id 
117465 
If you happen to 

---find a lower price,
$}497 
we'll match it 
PLUS take off an
2.4Volt 
additional10%I
Scr•w•ivar 

•lSOrp,1t•~
and,....., 

• UgJ,tweighl • Spindle 
Deluxe

foci. • 3 pOlilion awllch 
Combo Price

lf6IA37 Storage/ Fil• Crot•• 
169111
is15i9s 

$796 
2.5Cu.Ft. Haler" 

Co111pact • • • • • • 14"x50" Refrigerator Whit• Door 
111'5l9 

Mirror 
$109 Relrigwator-$10 Mal-In r.bate

133107 12 Gallon Udcled Ctote 
+ $69.98 Mlcrowa.,.•$10 Mail-Jn 

•2111"1.x U"Wx 121\''H •Cl-wllhclarHlueld •AJ.
reliat, • $158.98 for bolli 

0.7 Cu. Ft. Compad Microwave Oven purpoM contain« • lndualrl.l "'°"'"' plasllc co"""'dlon
alt"' IIIClilffl rebtl• 142653
(MA-1IOM) #105687 

$999 ·­
Tron1lucent lookMot• hr•-al
··••11 lomp
•Awilabl• In purple, blu-.
ll'..,,.._,......,,v1,yom1
d..!lff415
Unclerbed Box 


•36" 1..,, nu411 
Trorulveent HalOJ!I Mlnl D¦sk I.Glllp 11W73 $00.00 
Jran,k,nnt DPk Orpuer Loo,p 1166A7.S $00.00 







s2999 $}998 


6' .x 9' lou,ul 11 Piece Home and 6-0utlet 
t%• Combination lerborRug Cof1MnhlrTool Kit Padlock 
•Mula"' 10C<tad1 ANSI 110000 •Sralnlen"9.I_,""'-Jllrdflrf31552 'f>•cill<D!loru nU.561 HQ070 
•~.....,_•G­

Lowe's 
4460 Grape RD Mishawaka, IN 46545 272-0900 


...------------------------------------------------------­Saturday, August 25, 2001 The Obsen,er . NEWS page 11 

Special to The Observer 
Notre l)ame has launched a research magazine on the World Wide Web to showcase the breadth and depth of faculty and student research, scholarship. t:rtmtivity and teaching. 
Called Lumen, the magazine is the University's first all-electronic publication and one of only a handful of university research magazines in the country that is published exclusively on the Web. The UHL is lumen.nd.edu. 
The premier issue features a dozen articles including ground­breaking research on antibiotics by Marvin Miller. Clark Professor of Chemistry and Biochemistry; a major new federal educational excellence study being undertak­en by sociologist \1aureen Hallinan, White Professor of Arts and Letters and director of the Program on the Social Organization of Schools; and a study by Elizabeth Moore. assis­tant professor of marketing, that explores the impact of advertising on children. 
"Lumen will provide a rich, dynamic view of Notre Dame's extensiw research endeavors," said .James Merz, who shepherd­ed Lumen during his final year as vice president for graduate stud­ies and research. He stepped down from that post July 1. 
"'.'Jot.re Dame researchers are addressing the most important issues of our time, including our health and well being, our ability to function in a technological world, and how we understand our history, our society, and our spirituality," Merz said. "This publication will focus on these efforts for everyone interested in discoveries and ideas." 
Lumen's four-pronged focus on research, scholarship, teaching andcreativity allows the University to highlight the varied nature of Notre Dame's intellec­tual activities, which range from nanoscience and technology to the performing and visual arts. 
Lumen specifically highlights teaching innovations of our facul­ty, because high-quality teaching is as essential to a research uni­versity as the research itself." 
As a Web-based product, Lumen can be easily relayed to alumni, faculty, staff and stu­dents, to prospective faculty and to our peers in higher education. 
Lumen's design includes an e­mail subscription service, accessi­ble at lumen.nd.edu/sub­scribe.htm that will _provide e­mail notices when a new edition of Lumen is published. The sec­ond issue of Lumen is planned for early fall. 

Saint Mary's College Program in Dance Course Offerings 2001 
Modern Dance Beginning Ballet Beginning Improvisation Jazz Beginning Rep/Perf Workshop 
Modern Dance Int. Ballet Int/Adv Jazz Int/Adv SpTp: Stott Pilates 
AUDITION NOTICE 
The SMC Dance Workshop will accept 15 dancers skilled in modem and ballet technique for the 2001-2002 Season. Date: Monday, 9/3 Time: 7 p.m. Place: Regina Studio. SMC Ballet dancers--Bring pointe shoes 
TR  3:30-4:45p.m  
MWF  11-J 1:50 a.m.  
TR  12:30-1 :45 p.m.  
TR  2-3:15 p.m.  
MW  3-5:30 p.m.  
TR  7-9:00 p.m.  
TR  I 1-12:15 p.m.  
TR  9:30-10:45 a.m.  
TR  5-6:15 p.m.  
MWF  10-10:50 a.m.  

Additional Opportunities 
Interested in a Minor in Dance at SMC? For infonnation call 284-4643 or e-mail llowry@saintmarys.edu 

College releases mindset list 
Associated Press 
BELOIT, Wis. 
Brooke Ferguson was a lit­tle taken aback when a letter from her college in southern Wis!'.onsin urged her to bring a pair of "thongs" to school. 
She thought officials at Beloit College were making underwear suggestions. "Then I realized they meant shower shoes," the 18-year­old freshman says, laughing. 
The generation-gap­induced mix-up has become fodder for a list officials at Beloit create each year to give faculty members a few clues about their newest stu­dents. 
The so-called Mindset List, officially released Thursday, reminds professors that celebrities, news stories and facts of every day life when they were younf aren't even a memory for today's fresh­men. 
For the class of 2005, "IBM Selectric typewriters are antiques," this year's list notes -a contention con­firmed by the blank stares that mention of the Selectric drew from many of Beloit's freshmen. 
"Gotcha," 18-year-old Meg Kassabaum says with a smirk when told that the typewrit­e rs were the cutting-edge technology of their day. 
The confusion over bring­ing thongs to school inspired this list entry: "Thongs no longer come in pairs and slide between the toes." 
Many students also were surprised to learn that most Americans didn't grow up drinking Diet Coke, also on this year's list. 

"Yes, once upon a time, you could not get a diet soft drink," Tom McBride, an English professor who helps write the list, told a group of some of this year's 320 Beloit freshmen. The new students arrived this week for orienta­tion and a few pre-class lec­tures, discussions and field trips. 
The list is so popular that it regularly pops up in e-mail boxes worldwide. University officials say they get occa­sional complaints about it from students, who say the list belittles and stereotypes them, or is just plain inaccu­rate. 
But McBride is quick to defend it, telling them, "We're not saying you're ignorant." He pauses, smiles and then adds, "Just limit­ed." 
Besides, he says, the list is supposed to be fun, thought­provoking and mostly "a reminder to aging Baby Boomers." who may be struggling with the mere fact that most college underclass­men were born in the early 1980s. 
"When you want time to slow down, that's precisely when it speeds up," McBride says. "And I think this list reminds them of that." 
As the list points out, most freshmen are unaware that Sarajevo ever hosted the win­ter Olympics. To them, it is simply a war zone. 
And unlike preceding gen­erations, who may remember where they were when JFK was shot or when the Challenger space shuttle exploded, these freshmen relate to different events ­among them, the Oklahoma 
City bombing and execution of Timothy McVeigb. 
"Maybe it's because of where I'm from, but I will always remember the morn­ing that it happe"ncd," Joe Planer, an 18-year-old fresh­man from North Manchester, Ind., says of McVeigh's exe­cution two months ago in his home state. 
He and several others also mention the deep impact of the Columbine High School massacre, while still others remember being pulled out of their grade-school class­rooms to watch the O.J _ Simpson freeway chase and trial verdict. 
Much of their generation's humor, meanwhile, is the product of another Simpson -Bart and his cartoon fami­ly. And most of them grew up using computers. 
McBride, a professor at Beloit for 28 years, says he has noticed other differences in modern-day freshmen. 
He sees them as more health-conscious, goal-ori­ented and docile than their predecessors. "Students 20 years ago were much more rebellious and suspicious of authority," he says. 
These days, the popularity of the list among that very generation of former rebels -now the older generation -is pretty much ensuring that it will live on. 
Ron Nief, list co-author and the school's spokesman, already has at least one entry in mind for next year. 
"Who is Marilyn?" he recently asked a group of students, thinking they'd probably respond "Monroe." 
Their answer? 
"Manson." 

Makeshift Arizona hotel-dorms lack appropriate security measures 
By AMY WALTBY 
Arizona Daily Wildcat (U-Wire) 
TUCSON, Ariz. 
University of Arizona stu­dents relocated to hotels due to the housing shortage might enjoy the luxurious surround­ings, but many of their par­ents are concerned about Points contracts an outside security company to patrol the property from 11 p.m. to 6 

a.m. The security guards mon­itor the property, walk the floors and conduct scheduled checks of the entrances. 
Hare added that at least two Four Points employees act as security in the Council. 
Emilie Weightman, an ele­mentary education freshman, said the rides were "greatly appreciated." Lakia, who also participated in rush, agrees. 
"They (Panhellenic Council) were great," Lakia said. 
Hare does not view security around the Four Points as 

hotel security.  hotel  at  "{My parents] hate it.  a  problem.  
Lindsey Lakia, a freshman pre-business major whose mother is an attorney, said  all times. However, students  They just want me on campus, closer to other  She said that because the hotel is near  
her parents are "not happy at all" about her present accom­ frequent­ly return­ students."  campus, number  the of  
modations at the Four Points Sheraton, 1900 E. Speedway  ing to the hotel past  Melissa Howard  University of Arizona Police  
Blvd.  11  p.m.  University of Arizona freshman  Department  

Lakia said her mother thinks the current housing arrange­ment is "not what she felt she contracted for." 
The parents of Melissa Howard, a journalism fresh­man, have similar reserva­tions about their daughter liv­ing in a hotel instead of a dorm room. 
"They hate it," Howard said. "They just want me on cam­pus, closer to other students." 
Janet Hare, director of' sales for the Four Points Sheraton, said security in the hotel is sufficient. 
She added that the four Points is equipped with securi­ty cameras in all hallways, elevators and common areas. The cameras arc monitored 24 hours a day. 
Hare also said the Four 

f r o m sorority rush this week say they have not seen any security guards in or around the hotel. 
When asked if she had seen any security guards, Lakia said, "Never." 
Howard, too, noticed a lack of guards. She said as far as she knew, "There is no securi­ty." 
Neither Howard nor Lakia were given information on how to contact hotel security in case of an emergency 
Commuting to and from campus, especially at night, is a concern to students living at the Four Points. Students par­ticipating in rush were provid­ed with transportation assis­tance to and from the hotel, provided by the Panhellenic 
patrol  cars  
around  the  
hotel is high.  

"UAPD are very well repre­sented around here," Hare said. 
Hare said the Four Points established an agreement regarding security with the university last year. when a similar housing crunch had first forced the university to seek alternate housing. 
Jlare said both Four Points management and university administrators are pleased with the agreement. 
"There's a good comfort level on both sides," Hare said. 
James Van Arsdel, director of housing for the Department of Residence Life, was unavailable to comment. 

-page 12 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Saturday, August 25th, 200 I 
We've been putting out every night for morethan30 years.* 
Isn't it time you joined us? 
*(Newspapers. What did you think we were talking about? We all know that no one breaks parietals around here.) 
0pen House Sunday, 1-4 p.lll. 
Observer Office, South Dining Hall Basement 

\ ' ' 

Saturday, August 25, 2001 The Observer . BEYOND CAMPUS page 13 


Wake Forest issues laptops 
. University gives freshmen improved IBM ThinkPads 
By WILL 'WINGFIELD 
Old Gold and black (U-Wire) 
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. 

Like past years. the IBM ThinkPads issued to this year's freshmen at Wake Forest University on Aug. 22 and Aug. 26 have a faster processor. more memory and will be lighter. llut in a changi> from the past, the new A21 m comes equipped with the ability to burn re­writable CDs. 
The new 8x/4x/24x record­able CD drive was given to students in order to provide a convenient backup option with a larger capacity. 
"We've never had a really good, or an acceptable, back­up solution for campus," Jay Dominick, an assistant vice president and the chief infor­mation officer, said. 
Previously. floppy drives and network storage space were the primary backup options offered to students with computers. 
The ThinkPad A21m also has an Intel Pentium Ill processor at 800 Milz. 192 MB of HAM, a 20 GB hard drive, and a 14.1-inch dis­play. 
According to Dominick, the university has a budget of about $2,500 for each com­puter. including software. 
The new ThinkPad model reflects the university's changing priorities in pur­chasing a ThinkPad in light of the decreasing cost of technology. 
In the past, the university was concerned mostly with processor power. "Processors have gotten so fa.st, relative­1y, that they're not that important anymore," Dominick said. 
!:or the past two years, dis­play size was the key priority. 
The new machine, howev­er, reflects two new con­cerns: memory and data backup. Improvements to computers arc considered for their value to the educational process. 
The university has consid­ered adding DVD drives instead of CD-RW drives. 
Dominick said, "So far, other than for the entertain­ment value. there hasn't been a lot of educationally-orient­ed material out on DVD yet." Dominick, however, expressed his hopes for a recordable DVD drive in the future, due to its larger stor­age capacity. Although CD­recordable drives also equip students to make their own music CDs, possibly against copyright law, Dominick said, "quite frankly [thatl didn't factor into [the university's] analysis." 
The laptops include Labtec headphones so incoming freshmen can take their lan­guage placement tests online, also a new feature available this year. 
Information Systems rolled out version 3 of the Wake Forest Information Network this summer. In addition to a new look in time for the school year, freshmen seek­ing placement in French, German, Italian, Latin and Spanish will take their place­ment tests through WIN. The multiple-choice tests can include sound clips and pho­tos in addition to written questions. 
Online tests will be graded immediately so that fresh­men. and their advisers. will know what language class they have placed into. According to Anne Bishop, the director of research and development at IS. the results will also automatical­ly allow students to register for that class in WIN during registration, which will cut legwork out of each partici­pant language departments' time. 
"If a student places in a high-level Spanish class, it marks in the registration sys­tem that the student has met the prerequisites," she said. 
Chinese, Japanese and Hussian placement tests will still be written tests. 
Dominick said the software on the new ThinkPad is not much different than previous models. The computer will run on the Windows 9tf oper­ating system, as opposed to Windows 2000. 
The ThinkPad now includes EZ CD Creator 4.U. which enables students to burn both Data CDs and Music CDs. Although it is not pre­loaded on the new comput­ers, students can also access through the university's soft­ware installation menu. 
In an attempt to head off viruses such as the SirCam, Melissa and I Love You virus­es, IS is taking an aggressive. According to Dominick, IS now has the ability to "push" virus updates to students computers automatically, instead of requiring students to use Norton AntiVirus' "Live Update" feature. Virus scanners will also continu­ously scan the e-mail server for attachments that may carry viruses. 
"We're hitting viruses real hard this year," Dominick said. 

Move-in day a college tradition 
By ERIC SEO 
The Round Up (U-Wire) 

LAS CRUCES. N.M. 
Like the rising and setting of the sun, move-in day at New Mexico State University is an unavoidable episode that freshmen and upper­classmen alike have to tackle before graduation. 
Freshman Leslie lsselhard 
makes her way into Garcia 
Hall, teddy bears in hand, 
during check-in day Thursday 
for on-campus housing. 
Unlike the rising and setting 
of the sun though, transfer­
ring clothes. 

computers, tele­letic teams.
"This year's Move-In 
visions, stereos the Newman and other per­Day was very Center and sonal belong­successful. [The other cam­
ings from the pus organi­
workers') positive 
vehicle to the zations par­
dormitory ca.n attitude encouraged ticipated in 
be a harrowing freshmen that their the event. experience. Partakers
NMSU experience would
Many students p u s h e d
be a positve one." 
get help from around their parents or shopping others who are carts donat­
Chrissie Neubert 
kind enough to ed by Target
organizer
lug someone else's belong­ings through a virtual obsta­cle course. 
Climbing stairs and travers­ing long pathways littered with other people scurrying to their dorm rooms are com­mon phenomenon found throughout the university's seven living areas, Alumni Avenue, Garcia Hall, the Greek Complex, Regents Row, Rhodes-Garrett-Hamiel, the Women's Residence Center, and the Vista Del Monte Apartments and Student Family Housing facilities. 
For the past few years, freshmen who haven't had the luxury of a helping hand, hired or otherwise, have been aided by NMSU's greek com­munity and other campus organizations. 
The fall of 2001 marks the sixth year the greek commu­nity has hosted 'Move-In Day;' an event hosted by Advocating NMSU Greek Life and Education. 
"This year's Move-In Day was very successful," Chrissie Neubert, a co-coordinator at ANGLE, said. adding that all participants played an active role in the move-ins. "IThe workers'] positive attitude encouraged freshmen that their NMSU experience would be a positive one." 
About 300 members of NMSU's six sororities and 11 fraternities, along with mem­
bers of ath­
full of other 
people's belongings for eight hours Saturday, others manned lemonade stands to help bat­tle the desert heat. 
"It's really great to see the greeks organize to work with other campus organizations," Neubert said. "We really had Aggies from all walks of life helping these new Aggies get acquainted with their new surroundings." 
Saturday was chosen for the event in order reach the max­im um amount of new stu­dents, David Hotz, coordina­tor for Greek Life, said. 
"That's when the majority of people are moving in," Hotz said. "This was the smoothest Move-In Day ever, we had lots of help and great weather." 

0 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION You can bank on us to be better 
219/239-6611 • www.ndfcu.org 
Independent olthe University 
You can have it all: 
No minimum balance requirement No monthly service fees 
No per-check charge No ATM surcharge 
Plus, eight (8) ATMs on campus! 
Call, stop in, or visit our web site to apply for membership. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 

page 14 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Noae Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR fN CHIEF 
Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
AssT, MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Pat Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: ]a.son McFarlcy VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadter SCENE EDITOR: Amand;, Greco SAINT MAR.¥'s EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Perer Richardson 
ADVllTISING MANACER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINl->i"RATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adorn Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL lNF0..............631-7471 FAX......................................................... 631-6927 AoVEllTISiNG.....................................631-6900/8840 
obscrvad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................ 63!-4S42 MANAGING EmroRIAssT. ME............... ....631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-53l3 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu YtEWP0INT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu 
SPORTS .......................................................631-4543 
observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................63I-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINI MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0....................,...................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS............ .....631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visic our Web site at http:llobservu.nd.,du for daily updates ofcampus news. sports, fearures and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news 
from the Associated Press.  
I, i I I  SURF TO: weather for up-to-the minute forecasts advertise for policies and rates of print ads archives to search for articles published after August 1999  
POLICIES  

movies/music for weekly student reviews 
online features for spe­cial campus coverage 
about The Observer 

to meet the editors and staff 
The Observer is the independent, claily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not gov­erned by policies ofthe administration ofeither institu­tion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse adver­risements based on content. 
The news is ceported as accurately and ohjecrively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistam Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries. letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through lerrers is encouraged. Leners to the Editor must be signed and must include concacr information. 
Qumiom regarding Obmwrpolicit! ,houU be direct­,dto Editor in Chief Mike Conno!Iy. 
Saturday, August 25, 2001 


I don't feel qualified to give advice to freshmen. After all, it was just last week I finally learned how to pack for school. 
You should have seen the load of stuff I crammed into my Regina sin­gle freshman year. I was somehow under the miscon­ception that it was completely and utterly impossible to survive without every single belonging I had acquired during my lifetime ­plus the shopping bags of dorm sup­plies my mom and I had purchased. 
I packed every piece of clothing and every pair of shoes I owned, every picture I had ever taken, yearbooks, backpacks, books, stuffed animals, posters, blan­kets, cameras. compact discs (includ­ing the Arrested Development and Boyz II Men discs I hadn't listened to since seventh grade). I packed knick­knacks for my dresser, four winter coats, a bulletin board, an iron, egg crate padding for my bed. movies. dishes. a supply of Kraft macaroni and cheese and a rubber duck. (To 

this day I can't tell you where the ducky came from or why I packed it.) 
About two weeks into my freshman year, it became abundantly clear I had drastically overpacked. I still only listened to Dave Matthews -not any retro middle school hits -and my tiny clothing was getting too tight from a few too many pizzas and cheap dorm party beer. I was wearing jeans and a baseball cap to class, and quickly learning that there are very few things I needed to survive at school. 
So this year, matured by college wisdom, I made a rule for myself: whatever didn't fit in the car didn't come. And I stuck to it. With three years of dorm life behind me, I knew that I only need essentials: jeans, sneakers, a baseball cap, a fridge for beer, a television. a futon to watch TV on and a laptop. 
Priding myself on my new resolu­tion, I walked into my little brother's room last week to brag about my accomplishment. My brother Sean was preparing to pack for his fresh­man year at St. Joseph's, and I fig­ured I could give some advice to keep him from making the mistakes I had made. 
But when Sean packed, he didn't pack much: just his television. a pair of running shoes, his CD collection, some clothes, a toothbrush and his brand-new stereo. 

Before he'd even arrived at college. he'd learned what it had taken me three years to figure out. I smiled to myself, started to laugh and realized there was nothing I could tell him that he wouldn't figure out on his own. 
So if I have to give one piece of advice to freshmen, it will be this: fig­ure out your college experience on your own. Because even though RAs, professors, upperclassmen, friends, parents and siblings will try and give you advice, chances are they still have a lot to learn themselves. 
Believe it or not, you know what you're doing. You made it in here, and you'll make it out. And you'll do it on your own. 
Noreen Gillespie is a senior at Saint Mary's and the Managing Editor of The Observer. She wishes she could be a freshman again because she fears imminent unemployment in May. And yes, she still has the rubber ducky in her room. She can be reached at gill0843@saintmarys.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 

Jason McFarley Scott Brodfuehrer 
Sports 

Noah Amscadter KatieMcVoy Andrew Soukup 
Viewpoint 
Lauren Beck 
Scene Amanda Greco Graphics Katie McKenna Lab Tech Peter Richardson 
READERS DECIDE 
The Observer will discontinue either Fox Trot or Dilbert for the 2001-02 publishing year. Call 1-4541 to vote for your favorite comic until noon on Friday, Sept. 7. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The scholar is that man who must take up into himself all the ability ofthe time, all the contributions ofthe past, all the hopes ofthe future.,, 
Ralph Waldo Emerson writer 

O
THE 
BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 

SaturJay, August 25, 2001 page 15 
LETTERS FROM THE ADMINISTRATION 
Student Affairs offers blessing 
I would like to extend to you a warm welcome on behalf of all of us who work in the Division of Student Affairs -the Offices of Alcohol and Drug Education, Campus l\linistry, the Career Center, Counseling Center, Health Services, International 
Student Services and Activities, Multicultural Student Programs and Services, the Office of Hesidcnce l.it'e and Housing, Sewrity, Student Activities and the staffs of your resi­dence halls. Although we provide a variety of services, we share a common desire to do everything we can to help facilitate your intellectual, spiritual and personal growth. 
We extend a special welcome to our new 


students -first-year stud1rnts, transfer Poorman students and new graduate and profession­al students. We welcome back the sophomores, juniors and seniors, as well as the returning graduate and professional stu­dents. As a community, we draw our strength from the unique and diverse gifts offered by each of you. We hope that all of you -both those who are new and those who are returning -will be able to achieve the goals you set for yourselves this year. 
I hope that I will have the opportunity to come to know as many of you as possible in the months ahead. Until I am able to greet you in person, please know that you have my very best wishes for a year filled with all God's blessings. 
Father Mark Poorman Vice President for Student Affairs Notre Dame August 21, 2001 

Presidents extend warm welcome to freshmen 
Welcome to Notre Dame. We have a beautiful cam­pus and a talented faculty. I am sure that you will grow in every way as a thoughtful and reflective per­son preparing to make your way in the world. We are 
also proud of our residence tradition on campus and the many activities available for you to use your God­given talents in leadership and ser­vice. 
It is my hope that during your time with us you will make some of the best friends of your life. We wel­come students from ev.ery state in 

the union and from a wide array of Malloy foreign countries and cultures. We are enriched by the different experiences and per­spectives that you bring to our common life. 
I will have the privilege of teaching some of you in my seminar class. Others I will come to know through my residing in. Sorin Hall. I hope to have a chance to interact with all of you in some way or another during your time at Notre Dame. 
Once again welcome to Notre Dame! I am confident that this will be a great year for all of us. May God belss our life together. 
Father Edward Malloy President Notre Dame August 21, 2001 

Welcome back to Saint Mary's College for the 2001-2002 academic year! I hope that the summer for every student included a combination of rest 
and rejuvenation, a time to think about your academic life and your future ­and I'm sure for all of you earning money was a high priority. 
Now that we are 


back into the new 
Eldred 

year, I hope that it will be very challenging and rewarding for you. In particular I welcome our new first-year and transfer students and assure you that your experience at Saint Mary's will be an important time in your life. 
I look forward to meeting with stu­dents and faculty throughout the year and continuing our good relationships with Notre Dame and Holy Cross College. 
Marilou Eldred President Saint Mary's August 21, 2001 


I bombed a math test and slept through German. I ignored beginning painting. I lost my wallet and yelled at my roommate. I skipped my 5 p.m. workout. l searched campus for a place to sit and to think, undistracted, and I could not find the spot. Around 7 p.m. I called home. Tears flowed down my red face as I choked on my words. 
On this early October evening of my freshman year I wanted to repack the cardboard boxes that still sat in the middle room of the quad with their contents spilling out onto the cold, white, carpet-less floor. I dreamt of the high school that I had left so eagerly four months before and my room at home decorated with soccer trophies from 10th grade and gymnastics ribbons from pre-school. As I had mentally written the screenplay of my first year, l had not included a scene in which I lay on my dorm room floor, defeated, distressed and crying to my mom. 
The 12-hour drive from Doylestown, Penn. to Notre Dame had unexpectedly and incomprehensibly altered, complicated and rearranged my life. ln the first month of school I confront­ed unforeseen emotions and obstacles that I could not prepare myself lo conquer. I dealt with annoyances and disappoint­ments that I had not incorporated into my utopian conception of a college campus. 
Each of you arrives at school with a unique past, attitude and perspective, yet at present, intense change exists and has a constant within all of your lives. Your struggle to deal with the dramatically new rhythms of your life will ultimately define your first year. 
I could offer a number of inspirational, cure-all cliches to aid you as you meet your roommate, walk into your first of many classes in Debartolo Hall and stand for hours at a home game. I could tell you to seize the day, to capture every opportunity and to take the road not taken. I could quote Thoreau. 
Yet, I could just as easily and effectively advise you to float through the. day pas­sively and listlessly, to squander every opportunity and to drive on interstates prone to tral'lic jams. 1could quote an array or Existentialists. 
College will have a different meaning for each of you. Freshman year will have a unique effect on each of you. But if' I had to offer advice, I would ask you to remember two ideas: humor and 

happiness. 

First, the pain of any trouble can be alleviated with a little laughter and perspec­tive. Looking back, the incidents that led to my October collapse deserved in no way the graveness that I afforded them. Despite the test, I pulled a decent grade in cal­culus. I eventually found my wallet. My roommate and I ended the year as friends. 
Secondly, college students spend the majority of their four (or five) years at school striving to find their place and their passion -their "whatever" that fuels their thought, evokes their emotions and moves them to action. 
This year stands as the first of four dedicated intensely to discovering you.You will make many choices. You will choose friends. You will decide on majors. You will opt for a favorite concrete path or patch of green grass to take across South Quad. But regardless of your decisions, I hope that you make them for yourself. 
Of course, many decisions make themselves without the conscious thought of those affected. I do not know when I decided to major in English or when I decided that I might like to write for a living. Friends and family members, viewing my deci­sion in retrospect, will readily recognize the people, events and innate characteris­tics that brought about my seemingly inevitable decision. My parents encouraged me to read. I had great English teachers in high school. 
Yet a mother that picked me up at the library, a father that drove me to the book­store and a Sister Christi that spent seventh period preaching the gospel of parallel structurn do not clarify-for me -my enthusiasm for Hesse and Hemingway, my delight in the struggle to find the perfect words and my straightforward march in my charted academic path, unmoved by predictions of' future unemployment. 
At the moment, the study and the manipulation of the written word is simply the "whatever" that moves me. 
So finally rwould advise occasional releases of control. 
Good luck. 

Joanna Mikulski is a junior English and German major at Notre Dame. She lives in McGlinn Hall. She can be reached at Mikulski.1@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 

page 16 Saturday, August 25, 2001 
LETTERS FROM STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
Maintain balance 
to ensure success 
On behalf of the entire student body, we want to welcome you 
to Saint Mary's. There aren't words to possibly describe how 
excited we are that you have now become part of the Saint 
Mary's community. 
Part of the reason we are so excited for you is that we have 
had some insight into what lies ahead of you in the next four 
years. These years will be some of the best and brightest in your 
life. They will be full of new people, new ideas, new challenges 
and many new dreams you've never imagined. You will gain 
friendships and experience things you will remember for a life­
time. 
Savor all the special times that lie ahead and don't stand on 
the sidelines as new opportunities come your way. We hope you 
will become an active part of the Saint Mary's community that 
we will build together this year. 
One of the biggest challenges you will face this year will be try­
ing to find that delicate balance between studying hard and 
playing hard. As you receive the hallmarks of a liberally educat­
ed woman, remember that your academic life will be challenging 
but rewarding. 
We also encourage you to become involved in Saint Mary's stu­
dent government and campus clubs. The opportunities are limit­
less and you will make extraordinary contributions to these 
organizations. 
As your Student Body President and Vice President we are 
your representatives and we look forward to meeting you and 
the rest of the class of 2005. We will do anything to ease your 
transition and help you realize the potential that lies deep within 
you. 
Be proud you are a Saint Mary's woman. We can only hope you 
will enjoy your time here as much as we have. If there is any­
thing we can do please don't hesitate to contact us. 
Michelle Nagle 
Saint Mary's Student Body President 
Kristen Matha 

Saint Mary's Student Body Vice President Augusr 21, 200 l 
Treasuring college 
•

experience, new opportunities 
On behalf of the student body, we are thrilled to welcome our newest Darners to the mystique, tradition, unity and history that is Notre Dame. Many incredible experiences await you here at Our Lady's University, where you will grow not only academical­ly, but also emotionally and spiritually. The Grotto at sunset, the Dome lit up in the night sky and the stadium on football Saturdays are all scenes to be treasured, but we know you will also treasure that which is sacred about Notre Dame -the peo­ple. 
In the coming days you will meet roommates, classmates and professors who will become trusted advisors, best friends, confi­dants and your second family. Listen to their stories, laugh with them. lose your voice cheering for the Irish and have fun. 
The best way to take advantage of your time here is by getting involved in student life. The opportunities are endless and being involved will make your Notre Dame experience even more rewarding. You can play dorm football, write for a student publi­cation. participate in community service, play in the band, join a club, lead campus retreats or get involved in student govern­ment. The world is open to you and now is the time to discover your talents and find out what truly makes you happy. 
Again, welcome to Notre Dame! If you would like to get involved in Student Government or if you would just like to talk we are here for you. We look forward to meeting each and every one of you, so please stop by 203 LaFortune to say hello. 
Welcome to your second home, good luck and go Irish! 
Brooke Norton Notre Dame studenr body president Brian Moscona Notre Dame scudenc bodv vice president Jonathan Jorissen Notre Dame student body chi,;f ofstaff August 21. 200 I 

Packing up the car, backing out of the drive­way and watching the house fade in the dis­tance is a rite of passage. 
That first drive to college is filled with excite­ment, apprehension and a 
feeling that you can be any­one you want to be because no one knows you at all. 
Leaving the protective wings of parental oversight and branching out alone leaves you dreaming of the real world. 
Not quite. 

In fact, ifyou'd like, attending college at Notre Kerry Smith Dame and Saint Mary's may in fact be your last 
Assistant
safe haven from the real 
world. Managing Dorm rules that chal­Editor lenge your status as an adult and campuses that are fairly isolated from the surrounding com­munities don't create too much of a real world portrait. Unless you paint your college experience that way. In the next four years the two phrases you'll hear the most will be the administrations' favorite: "The Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community" and the students' favorite: "those South Bend townies." The administrations will try to instill in you a sense of school pride while the students will rally around their schools in the South Bend area while ignoring and degrading the com­munity in which they are located. School pride is important, but don't forget there is a bigger picture and a larger place that we all are part of. So, in short: Get out, explore and get involved. You are now part of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities. the South Bend 

community and the Indiana community. Don't fool yourself into the complacency of going to class, studying, partying and sleeping day in and day out, thinking that your only role has to be that of "typical college student." 
Consider your new home not just Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, but South Bend as a whole. 
Take a drive two miles from here in any direction and try to get a sense of the city and its people. It has its high and low points, like any place. Don't disregard your new communi­ty just because it's not as exciting as Boston or Chicago. 
Remember what you did before you came here in your own community and do it here. 
It's easy to be seduced into campus life ­some people don't step off of campus for months, forgetting that there is an outside world, in one way or another much like the one they came from. 
Volunteer in the community, join an organi­zation unaffiliated with school or take an inter­est in what's going on around town . 
Take your hobbies, skills and passions and don't compromise them just because you're thrown into a new and unique environment. Live as you have just in another location. 
There is no prototype for the college experi­ence. Don't do it your parents way or your best friend's way. Pave your own way. Just get out and do it. 
Kerry Smith is a senior at Notre Dame and The Observer's Assistant Managing Editor. She's had a car since freshman year and real­izes that her advice may be a little tough to follow without one. but highly recommends the South Bend bus system. She can be reached at smith.387@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
VIEWPOINT IS HIRING COPY EDITORS AND COLUMNISTS 
CALL  LAUREN  AT  1-5303  
OR  EMAIL  HER  AT  
OBSERVER  .VIEWPOINT  .l@ND.EDU  

O
THE BSERVER 

CENE 
campus

Saturday, August 25, 2001 page 17 

Memory-making melodies 
The freshman :S guide to creating a soundtrack to immortalize the first year 
By LAURA KELLY 
Associate Scene Editor 
Freshmen, take heed. You will soon discover that the best part of choosing Notre Dame or Saint Mary's as your home for the next four years is not the world-class education you will receive, the outstanding athletic traditions or the beautiful campuses. The best thing these schools will ever give you is the 24-hour Ethernet connection to which you and your parents are currently trying to stretch a computer cord. 
That little white box in the wall will not only turn you into an e-mail jqnkie and an Instant Messenger addict, it gives you the golden opportunity to amass as many MP3s as you can. And with your new thousand-song collec­tion comes the art of creating the per­fect playlist for sweaty, Natty Light­infested dorm room parties. 
This is the stuff freshman year is made of: making out with a total stranger in a dark corner while *NSYNC or Nelly blares into your ears, dancing on top of couches at 
It's time to make this 
Lafayette with your new Graffiti Dance sanc­best friends screaming place something more tioned a meat market "Sweet Caroline" at the of magic markers and
real than the glossy 
top of your lungs, tear­public humiliation).
photos the admissions 
ing up each time the You call your "horne­marching band begins office has been stuffing t.own honey" every the alma mater. It's the in your mailbox all night to reassure him. music of leaving home, or her of your com­
year.

making new friends, plete and total faithful-
Move On": "It's time to move on/ Time to get going / --what lies ahead I have no way of knowing / But under my feet, baby, grass is growing/ It's time to move on, time to get going." 
Driving Across Country 
After hours of watching cornfield upon cornfield (and worrying that the University of Hawaii might have been a better college choice). your parents turn the car onto Notre Dame Avenue or The Avenue at Saint Mary's. It's been a long drive, and as the Samples sang in "Indiana," you'll never forget that first ride. "I remember the first time I drove through Indiana / Thinking to myself how big this land really is / Amber waves of grain from a highway/ Who lives in that house so far away?" 
Hometown Honey Blues 
Like the dutiful boyfriend or girl­friend that you are, you skipped the Jamaica Shaka and the Frosh O Fiesta (wise decisions, since Freshman O was much cooler when the 

failing out of chemistry and learning to tailgate like a true ND fan -the soundtrack of your freshman year. 
Moving Away From Home 
You've packed all your worldly belongings into milk crates and your mother is screaming that if you don't start consolidating, the minivan will never make it out of the driveway. You're excited and nervous and not looking forward to a nine-hour car ride with the family. You just want to get to South Bend. It's time to make this place something more real than the glossy photos the admissions office has been stuffing in your mailbox all year. As Tom Petty sang in "Time to 
ness. But then you and 
your section mates learn the fine art of dining hall scop­ing, and you start to notice that cutie in your calc class. Next thing you know, prom pictures of you and your love are ripped off the wall and you have a different SYR date for every weekend. Hey, don't feel guilty -this is your time to live it up, said Crosby, Stills & Nash in "Love the One You're With": "Don't be angry, don't be sad/ Don't sit cryin' over good times you've had/ There's a girl right next to you/ And she's just waiting for something to do ... " 
Cheer, Cheer for 01' Notre Dame 
If you haven't noticed it yet, you're 

in the land of football. Fall in South you'll do it, too. Right after "Passions." Bend is dedicated to following the And a Reckers or Dalloway's run. team, and the traditions of football weekends must be strictly adhered to. 
Only the Good Die Young
Party like a rock star on Friday night, This Billy Joel song will be played at

drag yourself out of the loft early 

every party, SYR and bar you go to forSaturday morning for kegs and eggs at the next four years, so learn to like it.
Turtle Creek or subs and beer at your 

This song is essential to your fresh­
parents' tailgate. Cheer like a maniac man year soundtrack because it sumsfor the Fighting Irish. Under threat of up pretty much everything that Notredeath, never, never sit down during the game. Try to learn the appropriate chants, jigs and hand signals as quickly as possible so the seniors won't ridicule you. And wrap your arms around the guy next to you, even if you don't know him, and sing and sway along to the Alma mater. 

Dame and Saint Mary's social life is

Under the threat of death, 
about: dealing with never, never sit down dur­the sexual repression 
ing the (football] game. caused by years of 
Catholic schooling.

And wrap your arms 
"Come out, Virginia,around the guy next to don't let me wait / 
you, even ifyou don't You Catholic girls 
start much too late."

know him, and sing and 
Now you understand sway to the Alma mater. the mentality of ran­
Music is an essential part of football rituals, and nothing captures the nos­talgia of these autumn days better than the theme to "Rudy," a movie you must watch at least once a semester and be able to quote freely. The sappy swells of violins are also perfect for those dark, dreary days in mid­February when you start to deeply res,mt South Bend weather and ache for home. 
Midterm Madness 
Now, you do have to attend classes occasionally, so your parents think their $30,000 a year is worth some­thing. And as you wrote in your appli­cation essays, you're a dedicated, self­motivated student, right? You first walked through the doors of Debartolo or Madeleva Hall with that confident, 1-know-exactly-what-I'm-doing-with­my-life stride. But then you failed chemistry or flunked out of calculus, and now you just want to drown your sorrows in forties and Goldeneye tour­naments. As Phish sang in "Chalk Dust Torture": "The torturous chalk dust collects on my tongue / Can't this wait till I'm old? / Can't I live while I'm young?" Be strong, though -thou­
sands of freshmen before you have 
pulled out of academic slumps, and dom hook-ups, liquid 
courage and piling 20 

people in a cab to stand around in the cold at Lafayette. Strange and unfortunate? Most likely, but it's what parietals and the harsh winters of Indiana drive us to. You'll learn to love it or leave it. 
Finding Faith 
By now you may be thinking, "Twisted social rituals, piles of home­work, winter months without sunshine -what am I doing here?" Fear not. Whether you now call yourself' a Belle or a Domer, you have picked the greatest school around. What sets these places apart is more than foot­ball games, parties or even an esteemed degree at the end of it all. It is the spirit of the place, the sense of community, the feeling of family that you'll hear about constantly during Freshman 0. It's not just lip service ­the faith that binds us together is tan­gible and real. Bon Jovi may not have put it as eloquently as others, but what other anthem can you scream so well at the top of your lungs? It's the perfect way to end a soundtrack to freshman year -"Take my hand and we'll make it I swear/ Oh! Livin' on a prayer." 
Contact Laura Kelly at LKelly@od.edu 
ORIENTATION WEEKEND 2001 
TOBACCO POLICY · At!: puHdin~.,,on.,J,h···a .. t-io....lt····•.ru~...:.·.,
Dame earn~ are.§rnoke;ffee.d'·This ban extends to the seating , area of Notre Dame Stadium. Ash cans are provided outside most buildings tor the convenience of smokers. 
CAMPUS SECURITY 
For your protection Notre Dame e 

rg:1~~--1e~poli and vehicular patrols o pus property. Adcf · 
·:emer.genc
. acrtrss''''' 
a Call 634-BLUE. 
St. Mary's Lake 

. COMP . ­
Notre Dame feature 
distributed among 
These clusters, which 
and PC platforms, a 
several laser printers 
They print work at no 
can be found in the f . . . 
•-Cpmpute~ itzpatrick, 
ffeshyrgh e, COB 
Nieuwlan 'Shaug 
STUDENT REGISTER :t ,w· 
k For those who are unfamiliar with th 
! above term (upperclassmen incru · the official name for what is more known on campus as the Dogbook. This ' volume contains the photograph and brief biographical information . provided by each incoming freshman from both campuses. It is sometimes used for selecting one's date to dorm SYR semi-formals and formals. 
,NT MARY'S COLLEGE \li/1,Pllfl.Nl'l)RY SERVICE 
ofreil'arne's sister school is located , o y available only to males .f direct! ,~cross South Band's major ,c•t;i11..,,., the campus laundry service is rn .lb.,.. {1.iQQl;I/~¥· U.S. 933 students for a fee. A contract 
.il1J@l,ffl1~y:q')lfflet'.%~ft!. /f;c;>;t services can be purchased for! . map). The schools offer arr ex-· 
.. ....•.·.·.·.·,. ii.i···ralli1~~M~,6;~~~~
change program by which stu­7·• · ..,.nsac.·ti~I dents from both institutions may ; . 'f marked with ···ai'l'···''de·•nlfj take advantage of the opportw:li1}': :7''<. · Bundled laundry is collected at, to study on either ca pus: Also; i ~~for you to pick up at the Lauq the schools c9,. · ,, , . (directly below on map); the schel skiing, gyQYZl.,l, is posted in your dorm. Other se prog~:"". < · dry cleaning, tailoring/alteratiorn 
..
its own campus 

ove on ma Q~<' .. ~c·•, 
speoial ma· s;pf guests 
otthe ·oyunl arked ''Notre 
il¥&t1d

II mail not dr this slot will be po .. Jj~ri 
are co
"South Bend, IN." 
uspens e dorms ext, female in 

-
Saturday, August 25, 200 l The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
Football 
continued from page 36 
and Godsey's ineffectiveness, Lovecchio started the fifth game of the season and led the 
Irish to seven consecutive vic­tories and a Fiesta Bowl berth. 
But LoVecchio is clearly the exception. Other than Lovecchio, only linebacker Mike Goolsby and cornerback Vontez Duff saw significant playing time as freshmen last vear. Since Davie assumed the head coaching position five years ago, true freshmen have rarely played, much less start­ed. And the upperclassmen ­along with the coaches -are making sure that the players understand that. 
"The most important thing for these guys to make a good transition is to understand ihat it's gonna be hard," senior co-captain David Givens said. "They can't take any­thing personally. There'll be tough spots, but they'll get through it." 
Davie recognizes that taking snaps with the scout team is a difficult adjustment for these players who were used to being the big star at their high school. And he's already notic­ing certain signs in players that might be feeling over­whelmed. 
"You can see certain things when you look at these guys." he said. "They have mood one minute they're up. the next they're down. It's a lot like the stock market. The main thing is that they can't think too much. And they have to rely on the other guys, the veter­ans, to help them out." 
But that doesn't stop some members of the Class of 2005 from thinking big. Some, like Shelton, are hoping to see action playing on special teams. Others, like cornerback Dwight Ellick, are hoping to take advantage of positions vacated by graduates. And still others. like running back Ryan Grant and wide receiver Carlos Campbell, have caught the coaches' attention in just a few short days of practice. 
''I'll have a chance to play right away," Campbell said. "Basically. they put it on my shoulders. If I don't play this year, it's going to be my fault." 
Most of the other freshmen share a similar belief. 
"They just told me to train during the summer, come in. and get ready to get thrown right into the mix," he said. 
"Hopefully, I can get  on  the  
field  early  and  make  an  
impact."  

"Of course I'd love to get on the field -that's something you dream of." Shelton said. "It probably won't happen this year, but it'd still be great." 
Davie certainly hasn't ruled 

While most students are just arriving on campus this weekend, the Irish football squad has been practicing for nearly two weeks on the fields near Keough Halls. Above, backup quarterback Carlyle Holiday launches a pass during practice last Wednesday. At right, tailback Terrance Howard hauls in a pass during receiving drills. 
. 
photos by 

BRIAN PUCEVICH and TIMKACMAR 
Baltruzak 
continued from page 36 
performances from people that sit next to us in theology class. 
I'll give you an example. Last September, we watched as Eric Crouch of Nebraska scrambled into the end zone to beat us in over time. But as the football team raised their golden helmets to the student section of the stadium, you would have thought they had just won the national champi­onship by 30 points. 
The cheers were so loud you would have thought you had your head inside a jet engine. And I'll tell you this: that was the loudest roar I've ever heard at Notre Dame Stadium, win or lose. 
There was another roar in the spring, heard all over campus. When Ruth Riley sunk those free throws to win the women's basketball national championship, cheers erupted from LaFortune and scattered dorm lounges across campus, accompanied by "We're No. 1!" chants. Ruth herself was peppered with numerous marriage proposals. When the players returned to cam­pus. the crowd that met them in the early morning hours was in such a frenzy you'd have thought it was *NSYNC coming off the bus throwing $100 bills into the crowd. 
So what does all this amount to you, the incoming freshman? First of all. if you think you were a good bas­,... ketball player in high school, I assure you. everybody here at Notre Dame will be better than you. I can't explain it, it's just true. If you suck at basketball like me, you will suck even worse here. 
Second, if you don't know them already (ludicrous). learn the rules/strategy/histo­ry of football. That includes pass interference, touchbacks and intentional grounding. Know what a nickel package is. Be familiar with Knute Rockne, Joe Montana and Tony Rice. I'm just trying to help you out. 
Most importantly, be ready for a university that loves its sports, be it football. basket­ball, tennis, foosball. darts or cups. (Cups IS a sport. If you don't know what cups is, you will very soon.) Be ready to compete. Be ready to yell. Be ready to work yourself into a frenzy. 
The views in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Jeff Baltruz.ak at jbaltruz@nd.edu, 


out the possibility that any freshman will see significant playing time. It's just that it's tough for a freshman to over­take a proven position player. And he can't rule out the pos­sibility of a position change ­Duff was a highly recruited 
tailback  before  the  Irish  
switched  him  to  the  sec­ 
ondary.  

"I think [the freshman] have got some pretty good players in front of them, honestly,''.. Davie said of the defensive backfield and the possibility of seeing freshman emerge. "It's not hard to get them on the right guy. It's more of a tech­nique situation, being able to rebound when something bad happens. But. if a guy is an outstanding cover guy, he'll get on the field early." 
No matter how much playing time the freshmen receive, they plan on spending their first year watching and learn­ing. But the know that will change in the next few years when they become the team leaders. 
"I think in two or three years I should be starting," Campbell said. "Not to be arrogant, but that's how confi­dent I am." 
"I can see myself as being the best Notre Dame defensive back ever," said Ellick. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 r-m. ar rhe Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right co edir all classifieds for contenr without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
CARE NEEDED in my home for 3 year old & 7 month old. Monday thru Thursday 2:30 pm -5 pm. 1 Saturday a month. Own transporta­tion required. 5 mins from ND MaJor in early childhood develop­ment or child psychology a plus. References required. Call 288­6795 OFFICIALS NEEDED for baseball, soltball, flag football ana indoor lacrosse. Experience preferred for baseball officials Great opportunity to earn good money. Contact RecSporls office, Tara Fisher or Jett Walker at 63Hl100 or stop by the office in the Rolfs Sp0rts Rec Center You can also email us at rec­sport@nd.edu 
Gently used loveseat + chair. Taupe w/ muted pinstripes; wood trim-Broyhill-$150 674-6150 
FOR SALE 
This terrific one bedroom condo in Woodbridge Condominiums is close enough to walk to ND. Why rent? Own this for $62,9001 Contact Prudential One Realty or Cherie TeRoller at 284-2600. 
Northshore Condo, 1428 Marigold Way near ND, 1 bdr, 1 bath, LR, DR&. kitchen w/ appliances. 1 car garage $69,000 Call Doris at 254­1772 for more info. 
Gently used loveseat + chair. Taupe w/ muted pinstripes; wood trim -Broyhill-$150 674-6150 
FOR RENT 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM­PUS! Mmmrentals.com Email {\lrnmrf,ntals@aol.com 
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 rooms with private baths. $80-$115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road Exit #1 07. 1-800-418­9487. 

TICKETS 
BUY-SELL ND FOOTBALL TICKETS 272-6619 
PERSONAL 
WELCOME BACK! 
Don't forget • come lo The Observer·s Open House Sunday afternoon 
That quad's gonna be a rocking this year 
Nothing like a little jalepeno pep· pers to spice up an evening 
Chuk: "Connolly's a poster child for ugly people" 

-
page 22 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Saturday, August 25th, 2001 
Freshman Fact # 

You can't depend on your roommate to bring everything. 
0 Battery Pack wi1h Batteries 0 Scooter 
0 Dorm Electrical Combo Paek (Surge Protector) Camera
0 Towels 0 
C) Craftsman® Padlock/Security Cable Lock Dartboard
0 Electric Toothbrush 0 0 Security Chest Blender
0 Hair Dryer 0 0 Microwave
0 Curling Iron 0 George Foreman Grill 
0 Electric Curlers 0 Men's Shaver 0 Alarm Clock 0 Hotpot Toaster Oven 
0 245 Load Detergent 0 Computer/Laptop 0 Compact Refrigerator
0 Rolling Hamper 0 Printer 0 0 Iron/Board 0 Electronic Organizer 0 Dinnerware/Flatware Cookware
0 Coffee Maker 0 
0 Ready-to-Assemble Desk 0 Glassware 
0 DeskLamp

0 Accent Rugs 0 DeskChair
0 Decorator Vellux Pillows 0 Maraton CFL Bulbs (5 yr. guarantee) 0 Fleece/Vellux Blankets 
0 Quad Chairs 0 Backpack 0 Fleece Throws 
... 0 Bubbleiwist Light 0 Wheeled Backpack 0 Twin Extra Long Sheets 
0 Fan (Must Have!) 0 4-pc Luggage Set 0 Twin Extra Long Mattress Pads
0 Portable Vacuum 0 Paper Shredder 0 Twin Extra Long Comforter/
0 Upright Vacuum Sheet Sets 
0 Mini Cordless Drill Driver 0 Twin Vellux Comforter
0 18 pc. Companion Tool Set 
0 Body Pillow 
0 12' Craftsman® Tape/Easy Fire Stapler 0 Television 0 Jumbo Pillows

0 Utility Tool Bag Q VCR/DVD 0 Bedrest
0 Lantern/Flashlight Value Paek 0 VCRTapes 0 Floor Cushions 
0 Duct Tape 0 Cordless Phone 0 Aerobed
0 Rechargeable Batteries 0 Stereo System/Boom Box 
0 Personal CD Player 

r-------------------•
·-------------------·I I
1 10% off Shopping Pass I : $5 off . I 1 Take 100./4 off any regular priced microwave, compact refrig-I any $50 or more purchase of regular or sale priced bed
1 I I
erator, vacuum, home electronics or home office purchase. I or bath items, housewares, luggage or I Use this coupon on your purchases for college and if it's not I ready-to-assemble furniture. I I on sale..•you get to put it on sale! I I I 
Savings off regular, saJa amt clearance prti.es apply to merchandise only, Not 'i\ilid 011 Exceptional Values; sears.com: outlet store
Sa1\ngs off regular, sale ano clearance prices appiy to merchandise ool~. Net valid on Exceptlooal Values·, sears.cam~ outlet storE 
pun:ltases; Homeure Fun1iture; catalog ordel'S; fragrances; catphalon; J.A. Hencit.eis; ~ Maytag Gemini and Neptune; 
I

pun:haS8>; HomeLite Fumiture: catalog ooiern: lragrances: ca!phalon: J.A. HenckelS: 80Se; Mayt,,g Gemini and Nepwn,; 
Steams & Foster and Sealy Posturepedlc Crown Jewel mattresses.

I I I 
Sleam5 & Foster and Seaiy Posturopeoic Crown Jew,! mattresses 
One coupon per purchase. Vold If copied, transferred and wtrere prohibned by !aw.
One coupon per l)l<thasa. Vold If cq,ied, lransfemd and Where prohibited by law. 
I I Any other.., coostt'""'' mwd. Cash value 1/20 cent 02001 sears. Roobllek and co.
I I 
Any other u.e constilules hud. Cash value 1/20 cent 02001 Sears, Aoabucl< and Co. satisfactiQII Guararrteed °' Your MQlley Bad< Satlslectl011 Guaranteoa °' Yuur Money Bocl< I 
Sile&AssOci.ate: please collect thts eooPQfl.11 unable to scan, manually enter lhe coupan ruJmber.
Sales Associate: please collect thi& coupon. If unatile to scan, manually enter the coupon number. 
I I I 
Valid May 1 • September 30, 2001.

valid May 1 • September 30, 2001. 
Mil'/ not ba useo with any other coupon.

May nDt be used witfl any other coopon.
I I I 
SE/ARS 1 I
S/WARS I 

I illllJlij!t~,uUJI nI I 
,11 III !l!lijUJ I U II I 
I 

·-------------------~·-------------------~ 

(02001 Sc,rs, Roebudc and Co, 


PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION 
ncl at no charge, Providing direct service to the U. w available to all Mall in Mishawaka and transf for $95 worth of service to most areas of Sout 
5 per semester; end, the city bus stops outsid n amounts will be he Library (below on map) eve lothirig tags will be hour Monday-Friday from 7:0 ation numb'er.·,\ •. •. ntil 6:31 p.m. and then a our dorm and avafl-·\ ',':. :30,and 9:20 p,m.,,andsto
dry Distribution Center ' .. onSaturdayfrom'7Bt,~i­ule of designated days · ' 1 p.m. Service in this are ·ces available include ,,·· 7, is not provided on horn and summer storage. Saturdays. The fare is 7 
\ 

.· ·. •., ·. · ;;,, ··. ••.. ~tQ,8'92 _e ·otcampus:~ iz ur Sept/$ · 
fr ·n the Joyce 
~~--~<:'-,.,~::--.-.cfr:·, 

presentatives fr ·..· the , letic, 
·· nd political tationed a r questions 
.. i " ··me 
DINING HALLS 

Students who live in residence halls can choose between the basic 21-meal plan and the Flex-14 plan, which allows students 
. to eat 14 meals per week in the dining halls and get 20,000 points ($200) for use in various eating stops around campus. Excluding finals and vacation weeks, dining hall hours are: Breakfast. ............ 7 a.m.-9:15 a.m. 
·:,:~ 6fnn~r·::.:~~?!!~f~~?ii/B[·. :,fo ....,, 
Grab 'n' Go................ 7 a.m.-7 p.m. Note: South Dining Hall remains open until 9 p.m. Monday through Thursday. 
FOOTBALL TICKETS All students are guaranteed the opportunity to 
purchase one season ticket apiece. The proce­
dure is as follows: application cards will be mailed. Go to the stadium box office Monday to receive a lottery ticket. The lottery will take place Monday · night. Bring these cards, a student ID and cash or check for $114 to the Stadium Box office at your assigned time. Each student may submit up to six separate applications provided he or she also furnishes a matching student ID and payment for 
·. each application. Freshmen will receive their tickets :d'llillllll Au ust 30 beginning at 2 p.m. at the Stadium Box _... 
IDENTIFICATION CARD The student ID is a ticket to the privileges and im~ munities granted to all students. Carry at all times of the day. Among the many in­stances it is required: eating at the dining halls, library services, 
JatratJon, football nd baskjfQaft·g~
~-:<-·.c:. ·.-::ts: -----------­
''f3t)J:lQ1 POLICY 

According tom:[ ' nt Life Poli­cies and Procedures, respon: ·. '. sible for compliance with Indiana criminal law regarding alcohol consumption. The Uni-, varsity will enter a private residence room for the ' purpose of enforcing Indiana laws if drinking in such a room becomes public in any way." Public is defined as that which extends beyond the privacy of the 
'% roof:l. lt_clarifies: «No ~lcoh?lic bever~ges may be 
i earned m open containers in the corridors or any other public area of the residence 
halls such as lounges or lobbies."· 
TIMEZONE 

Twice annually, when America ad­justs its clocks for Daylight Savings, Arizona, Hawaii and regions of ln­diana do not change; Notre Dame is located in such a region. South Bend keeps its clocks set to Eastern Standard lime year­round. Therefore, from spring until fa!l it is the same hour of 
. the day here as in Chicago, where­as from fall until spring it is the same hour of the da/ here as in Boston. 
,. 
ORIENTATION 
·ry~ College
WEEKEND 2001 


COMPUTER LABS Computers are available 24 hours a day in Trumper computer duster, located in the basement ofthe library. Each residence, hall also has its own computer lab. The lab feature both Apples and PCs. Also, ResNet connections are available in each room. 
ACTIVITIES NIGHT 
. Belles can discover great ways to ben involved in campus activities on September 6 at 7 p.m. in the ~~ 
n · Angela Athletic Facility. ~'fY ATHLETICS The Saint Mary's athletic team mascot is The Belle. The Belle Heads can be seen leading athletic cheers and shouting "Go Belles" at sporting events. Saint Mary's is a member of the MIAA. Sports 

information can be found online at the athletics homepage or by visiting the Angela Athletic Facility. Admission to all sporting events is free. 
::,;;::;r, 
.·. dff,1 

•VISITATION HOURS 
· Saint Mary's and Notre Dame both observe rules regarding visitation hours in residence halls for members of the opposite sex. 
r / . 

Through most of the academic year, · ·, 
open visitation exists on Saint Mary's ( . )·­... campus from 10 a.m. through mid-l 
night on Sunday through Thursday anc.\, \ 
from 10 a.m.until 2 a.m. on Friday and··.,_ 
Saturday. Visiting hours at Notre Dame ; -· 
begin at 9 a.m. every day and conclude r~" ~ 
: at the same time as Saint Mary's hours. ; · 
SHUTTLE 
•· Campus shuttle services are available. ' between Notre Dame, Saint Mary's · and Holy Cross. Schedules are available · in the lobbies ofall Saint Mary's · residence halls, in Lafortune and . on the shuttle . 
. IDENTIFICATION CARDS 
A Saint Mary's student's ID is her passage to 
· the college world -literally. Entrance or 
departure from residence halls requires an 
ID card for swipe access. The ID card als 
provides dining hall services, including · 
Munch Money, valid at The Crossings and 
Dalloway's, and access to library material. 
Identification cards are issued in Haggar College Center. 
· SECURITY Saint Mary's security is located off the north end of Holy Cross Hall near the Moreau Arts Center. Security offers rides to Saine Mary's students to and from the residence halls and parking lots after dark. Telephones that ring security directly _ are located in remote parking lors and · are marked by a blue light. The number for Saint Mary's Security is 284-5000. 

CUSHWA-LEIGHTON LIBRARY 
Monday-Friday 7:45 a.m. -midnight 
. Saturday 9 a.m. -midnight 
. , Sunday 11 a.m. -midnight 
Reference Services 
Monday -Saturday 9 a.m. -9 p.m. 
Sunday 1 -9 p.m. 
Admission f, · Office :,· 
flfJi 
ALCOHOL AND 
TOBACCO POLICY 
Saint Mary's students must abide by state regulations concerning the consumption ofalcohol. However, Saint Mary's policies also stipulate that those of legal age may not consume alcohol in the presence ofminors. Saint Mary's is a smoke-free campus. 
NOBLE FAMILY DINING HALL 
Monday -Friday Breakfast 6 -8:30 a.m. Lunch 11 a.rn. -1 p.m. Dinner 4:30 -7 p.m. 
Saturday & Sunday Brunch 10 a.m. -2 p.m. Dinner 4:30 -7 p.m. 

FOOTBALL TICKETS Saint Mary's students. will follow the same procedurn as Notre Dame students, outlined on the previous page. Saint Mary's students should note, however, that the cost of their tickets is $154, payable by either cash or check. 
ANGELA ATHLETIC FACILITY 
Monday ., Thursday 6 a.m. -11 p.m. Friday 6 a.m. -6 p.m. Saturday 8 a.m. -4 p.m. Sunday 8 a.m. -11 p.m. 



Saturday, August 25, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles look to large class for improvement 

ickoff 2001 


Monday, August 27, 2001 

8:30 pm-12:00 midnight in Stepan Center 
Pizza and Sub Taste Test starts at 8:30 pm Choose which pizza and sub will be voted #1 by Notre Dame students 
Notre Dame Coaches and Student-Athletes Notre Dame coaches and student-athletes will be in attendance throughout the night. Games and Prizes, Prizes, Prizes 
-I
Participate in various activities including golf, basketball,volleyball, soccer and more. Then enter to win prizes including 2 season passes to Notre Dame Men's Basketball, bike, VCR, DVD, camera, various other Notre Dame memorabilia and much more 
and much, much more! 
. 

·~.<: .~ Come and support your re~idence hall. ~he residence hall ~ith the highest *··~-/
.•,-c· 

~ percentage of residents there wms $200.00 for their hall. " \ 
Sponsored by Student Activities Office, RecSports and the Athletics Department For more infomation contact Student Activites at 631-7308 
among the new recrutis will
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
make second-year head coach 
Sports Writer 
Julie Schroeder-Biek's job of 
narrowing down the roster 
Someone observing a practice Tuesday difficult. session of the Saint Mary's vol­"It's going to be tough to make leyball team would never guess cuts Tuesday because the play­this was the same team that ers are all so talented," 
struggled to survive in the Schroeder-Bick stated. "It will he 
Michigan very close down to the end." Intercollegiate Schroeder­Athletic 
Biek credits

"I don't think I've ever 
Association last the large
seen such a large, talent­
number of courts are tilled ed group come out. They first-year stu­with enthusias­are very hard working dents in try­
season The 
tic young play­outs to her
and enthusiastic about 
ers hoping lo staff and their make the team joining the team." focus in the and turn it 
off-season on around in its recruiting.
Angela Meyers 

2001 season. "Having The large co-captain more consis­
number of ta.1­enwd fre!:ilunen at preseason practices, at 13, tops the total number of first year athletes last season. That number gives class of 2005 the largesl representation on the court, a number which excludes any students who hope to walk on to the team but have not arrived on campus. 
"l don't think I've ever seen such a large, talented group come out," senior captain Angela Meyers said. "They are very hard working and enthusi­astic about joining the team." 
The intense competition 
tency in both 

the coaching staff and the overall organization of the program from last season to this one allowed us to go out, recruit and bring some more girls in," Schroeder-Biek said. "Before last season, we really didn't have the chance to recruit or arrange the team the way we'd have liked before we came in." 
After a disappointing 2000 season in which the Belles fin­ished near the bottom of the MlAA with a 7-22 record, Schroeder-Biek sees improve­ment on the horizon. 
"We're in a much better situa­tion this year than last," Schroeder-Bick said. "Last year, we really didn't have a chance to recruit players, and we didn't even have a chance to make a true cut before the season began." 
After cuts are made on Tuesday, the freshmen will be expected to step right in. 
"We have a solid core of upperclassmen returning, but we did lose two players to our overseas program, and one transferred out," Schroeder-Bick said. "So we're hoping for some of these freshmen to come in and contribute right away." 
Returning to play is last sea­son's leading defensive player, Meyers. Last year, Meyers was the team MVP and was named Second Team All-Conference in the MlAA. 
Meyers can already see the impact that the freshmen could have on the team. After a rough season last year. she believes the newcomers could make a big dif­ference in the team's success. 
"They could make a really big difference," Meyers stated. "They have such great heart and desire to improve the team. I think they could help to make for a great final year for the other returning seniors and myself." 
Contact Chris Federico at federico.2@nd.edu. 

Saturday, August 25, 2001 page 24
The Observer . SPORTS 

.... 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
Freshmen expected to make early impact 

By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Sports Editor 
Within a sea of red, coach Debbie Brown found a pot of gold. 
When the then-No. 1 Nebraska football team visited Notre Dame last September, they brought with it the Nebraska volleyball squad and a horde of red-sweatered fans for both sports. On its way to the 2000 national champi­onship, the Cornusker volley­ball teamtopped Notre Dame on the volleyball court, but the Irish did not come up empty. 
That same weekend, Notre Dame's volleyball recruits arrived for their official visits. The time on campus was so impressive that three of those recruits now make up part of the Class of 2005. 
"It definitely left an impact on me," said Kelly Corbett. who hails from Mountain View, Calif. "It sort of gave me the chills to sit back and think that I'd be a part of the team. I remember watching the team. They played great. They had a lot of chemistry on the team." 
Corbett, a middle blocker, is joined by fellow freshmen Emily Loomis and Leah Nedderman. After less than two weeks of practice, Brown is more than pleased with the progress of her newest team members. 
"Overall, we feel like the preseason has gone very well for them," Brown said. "We feel like they're fitting in pret­ty well. It's a highly athletic group. They're all very fast and strong. They're in a posi­tion to come in and add to the team right away." 
Loomis, an outside hitter from nearby Fort Wayne, Ind., has a high reach measured at 10-foot-5 and is projected to start. 
"I think that she's had a very good preseason." Brown said. "She's physically very gifted. She's the quickest member of our team. She's also jumped the highest of any member of our team. She's very competi­tive." 
Neither Corbett nor Nedderman is projected to join Loomis in the starting lineup, but coach Brown expects to see both rookies as productive members of a deep Irish ros­ter. 
"Leah is physically very gift­ed," Brown said. "She has a great touch. She's a lot small­er, but she has great skills all the way around. She definitely adds depth to our outside hit­ting position." 
Corbett will be counted on off the bench right away, as the Irish carry only three mid­dle blockers. Sophomore Kim Fletcher and senior Malinda Goralski will start. 
"If either one of our starting middle-blockers was not play­ing well or was injured, Kelly would be put into a position of playing right away," Brown said. "I think that she has pro­gressed so well in the presea­son that we would not feel nervous about how she was going to do at all." 
All three athletes have expe­rienced a higher level of con­ditioning and workout intensi­ty than they had in high school, an experience that is beneficial both physically and mentally. 
"It's a lot more intense," Nedderman said. "We've been working out all summer. In the mail we got a whole booklet full of stuff to do. It was a pretty intensive booklet." 
"You have to be a lot more mentally tough than I'm used to," Corbett added. "It's defi­nitely not only about the physi­cal part of your game, but the mental part." 
Contact Noah Amstadter at namstadt@nd.edu. 

w®iTIIDB JID&.Mm 1rrrt~~ 
SEASONS WANTED INDIVIDUAL GAMES 
Preferred Tickets 
*UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STlJDY PROGRAMS 152 HURLEY BUILDING 
GENERAL INFORMATION SESSION WITH FR. JOHN JENKINS, C.S.C., VICE PRESIDENT AND ASSOCIATE PROVOST 
SATURDAY, AUGUST 25, 2001 
JOYCE CENTER ARENA 
4:30 P.M. General information session recommended for students who are uncertain about which program may be right for them. 
Students who are interested in specific programs may attend one or more of the related sessions listed below. Program presentations will run continuously between 4:30 and 6:30 pm 
PROGRAM  ROOM  
London ­ Undergraduate Programs  Joyce Center fieldhouse  
London ­ Engineering (summer)  

A.II remainingprograms will be presented in DeBarto/o Hall. 
Angers and Paris, France Dublin, Ireland lnnsbruck, Austria 
Berlin, Germany 
Semester Around the World (Saini Mary's College) Athens, Greece 
Cairo, Egypt 
Jerusalem Nagoya, and Tokoyo, Japan Shanghai, China 
Rome, Italy Monterrey, and Puebla, Mexico Santiago, Chile 
Toledo, Spain Rio de Janero, Brazil Fremantle and Perth, Australia London Summer Program Moscow, Russia 
St. Petersburg, Russia Room 131 Room 138 Room 140 

Room 319 
Room 320 
Room 310 
Room 129 Room 141 
Room 155 Room311 Room318 
Faculty and ISP staff will lead sessions. Former student participants will also be on band to discuss their experiences, offer comments and answer questions. 

Saturday, August 25th, 2001 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 25 
Ir----------------------1---------------------------------------~--------------------------------------~-,I 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I , I ' I 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 


1 
I' 

I 

I 
' 
I 
.
I 
1 
I 
.
I 
' 
I 

I I I I I I I 
I
I 
I 
I 

I I .1 
I I 
I I 

I I I I I l I I I I I l I l I I l I I I I l I 
1 
I I 
1 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 


I ­
I 

I JI
LI _____________________________________________________________________________________________________ I 
SATURDAY AND SUNDAY 10-6 
-

WRBR ·saturdav 3-6 nm and Sundav 1-4 pm Bungee Run *Saturdav 5:00 nm and sundav 3:00 pm Basketball Shoot *All dav Saturdav and sundav 
...

Prize machine *Saturdav 3:30 & 5:30 and 
Sundav 1:30 &3:30 

Scavenger Hunt ·saturdav 6:00 nm and Sundav 4:00 pm 
Goldfish Eating ·saturdav 4:00 pm 
sundae Eating ·sundav 2:00 pm 








page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Saturday, August 25, 2001 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Class of 2005 adds speed, agility to Irish 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Spam Wrirer 
Head coach Randy Waldrum's first two years at Notre Dame featured teams that were noticeablv faster and more agile than previous Irish squads. With the addi­tion of the Class of 2005, Waldrum expects this year's squad· to be his fastest yet. 

''I've been really impressed with the freshmen so far,"Waldrum said. "Overall we are faster and more ath­letic than ever before. Our basic goal was to match up better athletical­ly with the other 
top teams while "When Amy Warner got Ashley still maintaining w e n t
hurt and Ali Lovelace got 
the high level of down, we
hurt, we didn't have the
so.:cer that has didn't characterized depth. Asfast as Ali and have a past Notre Dame plan for
Amy are, we now have 
teams," that."
players who are even
Although In their Waldrum faster.,. first pre­expects at least sea son four first year scrim­
Randy Waldrum
players to be mage, the
Irish head coach
impact players this season, Mary Boland and Candace Chapman have impressed Waldrum the most in the preseason, 
"Those two freshmen have certainly stepped in and shown they are more like vet­eran players,"Waldrum said. 
Chapman is a speedster who gives the young and dan­gerous Irish offense even more quickness. She has experience playing with Canada's under-18 national team. 
Teamed with junior Ali Lovelat:e and sophomore Amy Warner, the Irish will feature one of the fastest frontlines in the country. 
"When Amy Warner got hurt and Ali Lovelace got hurt, we didn't have the depth,"Waldrurn said. "As fast as Ali and Amy are, we now have players who are even faster." 
Boland is a high school All­American from Ohio who has 

AUDITIONS 
for the 
University of Notre Dame Choirs 
ND Chorale, ND Glee Club, ND Liturgical Choir, ND Women's Liturgical Choir, & Basilica Schola 

Sign Up in Crowley Hall of Music 
Audition Times: Sun., Aug. 26: 3-6, 7-lO Mon., Aug. 27: 9-12, 1-4:30, i:30-10 
ALL ARE WELCOME 
You are strongly encouraged to sign up for the earliest posible audition time. The audition will consist of a simple hymn or a prepared piece, interval recognition, vocalizing to check range, and a short sight-singing example. 
Auditions will be held in Crowley Ball of Music. 
Please call 1-6211 or 1-6201 for further information. 
spent time with the U.S. under-19 national team. She will give the Irish midfield a lot more speed and depth. 
"She is certainly going to be an impact player on our team no question about 
it,"Waldrum said. 
Ashley Dryer's injury in last year's NCAA Women's College Cup exposed Notre name's severe lack of depth in the midfield. Waldrum hopes Boland will play a big role in solidifying the midfield. 
"Ashley still has a big role on our team but by adding Mary Boland, we have more options,"Waldrum said. "Last y e a r w h e n 
Irish once a g a i n w e r e forced to play without Dryer who missed the scrimmage with an illness. With Boland in the lineup, however, Notre Dame didn't miss a step and beat Wisconsin-Milwaukee 2­
0. 
Although the victory was far from flawless, two first­year players had big nights for the Irish. True freshman Reagan Jones and redshirt freshman Melissa Tancredi each scored for the Irish. 
The return of Tancredi to the lineup after missing all of last season with a torn ante­rior cruciate ligament gives the Irish even more depth on the front line. Tancredi is a big, powerful player in the mold of gr ad uate d-se nior Meotis Erikson. 
Both Erikson and Tancredi 
are tall players with powerful ¦ shots but Waldrum believes Tancredi could develop into ¦ an even better player than ¦ 

Join the Club! 
¦ Come to an informational meeting for the
• 

LOGAN Club
¦ Monday, September 10th ¦ 
¦ 

• 
¦ 6 p.m.-Center for Social Concerns-ND • 7 p.m. Regina Lounge-SMC ¦ 
¦ • 
¦ Go to: http://www.loganccntcr.org/Voluntecrs/Activitics.cfi.n 
• 

¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦ •••••••••• 
Attention: Notre Dame FRESHMAN LADIES 
Tryout: August 30, 2001 
5:30 p.m. -Joyce Center-Gym 2 Cheerleading Experience Necessary Gymnastics & Dance Experience 

The Cheerleading Program is looking for two freshman Notre Dame ladies to join our team. You ~ould help cheer for men's and women's soccer. Please pick up tryout forms at the reception desk on the second level ofthe Joyce Center at Gate 3. Bring completed forms with you to Gym 2 ofthe Joyce Center on Thursday, August 30, 2001 at 5:30 p.m. 

Notre Dame's sixth all-time leading scorer. 
"She is a little different from Meotis in that she is faster and more athletic,"Waldrum said. "She will take what Meolis did for us to a higher level." 
The Irish lost two starters on defense but will have to wait a little while before they find out if the Class of 2005 will play a role on defense. Cunna Gunnarsdottir was expected to step in for the Irish back line but a torn medial collateral ligament in her knee has sidelined her for the entire prescason. 
The injury is not as serious as Tancredi's last year but has kept her from practicing yet and may keep her out of the lineup for the first few games of the year. 
When she is healthy, how­ever, Gunnarsdottir rnay prove to be the best of the class. She has played 15 games with the Iceland national team and defended against some of the best play­ers in the world. 
"We're eager to see what she can do,"Waldrum said. "We think she can step in right away for [graduated seniors] Kerri Baker or Kelly Lindsey. The only problem is she can't step in right away because she has missed the preseason." 
Erin Sheehan and Kate Tuliasiak round out the fresh­man class. Waldrum said he was satisfied with the way they both played in the first scrimmage. Tuliasiak, howev­er, had to leave the game early to get six stitches after she collided with a Wisconsin-Milwaukee player. 
Contact Mike Connolly at connolly.28@nd.edu. 


¦ 

TIM KACMAR/The Observer Freshman Gudrun Gunnarsdottir passes the ball during prac­tice. Gunnarsdottir, who hails from lcleand, missed the presea­son but will be counted on to step in early in the season. 
:'\.{'> ::<vry;::fDi:~i]%-_,f::J'.Kfk?=:·'-_, , :7/::·-:: ·:.• ·'¥\{~:/
~;$> "'e'illustrate fof the Observer! 
Email. eamer@nd.edu 

=·,. ·i~::)t::;\:;i~:~;<':$~~:,=···· ,,x:~'f=~>-' 

-7 
l 
I 
~ I 
Saturday, August 25th, 2001 page 27 I
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT I 
I 
A little different. A Int better.® 

Indian Ridge Shopping Mall, 5802 Grape Road, Mishawaka 

• I 
I I 
I 
I I 
l 
I I I I I I I I 
page 28 The Observer . SPORTS Saturday, August 25, 2001 
CROSS COUNTRY 
Backed by success, Canadians lead Irish recruits 
By KATIE HUGHES 
Sports Writer 
Maple leaves fuse with sham­rocks and new talent fuses with experience this fall on the Notre Dame cross country course. Both the men's and women's recruiting classes are led by talented runners from Cananda. 
On the women's side, Lauren King of Toronto, while billed as a top recruit, will not compete in the season's early meets because of an extended high school track season. 
"Lauren's track season went until the last week in July, so we probably won't see her racing until October," said women's head coach Tim Connelly. 
King, who also considered run­ning for Georgetown, was the Canadian Junior national champi­on in both the 1500-and 800­meters, as well as the Ontario high school champion in both races. 
She finished sixth at the Canadian senior nationals in the 1500-meters, and was 26th in the world cross country champi­onships. 
Once track season comes around, look for King to improve upon her personal bests of 4:22 in the 800-meters and 2:09 in the 1600-meters. 
"She's very, very talented," Connelly said. "She trains very hard and works hard academical­ly, as do a lot of girls on this team. She should fit in well." 
Joining King to round out the class of 2005 will be Kerry Meagher, a 2:14 800-meter runner from Pennsylvania, Christy Arnerich of California and Margaret Martin of Alabama. 
Soon after he finishes freshman orientation festivities, Ancaster, Ontario's Eric Morrison, who fin­ished fourth in Ontario in cross country, should break into the top nine of an already elite group of returning upperclassmen that includes NCAA 10,000-meter champion Ryan Shay. 
The Irish finished ninth at last year's NCAA championships, and did not graduate one runner from last season. 
"Eric was not a kid we had to convince to come to Notre Dame," said men's head coach Joe Piane. "He knew he could get a fantastic education, and also run exception­ally well." 
Morrison, who also considered Stanford and Arkansas, was swayed to join the Irish when he stayed with team members last year. 
"I put a lot of faith in the other fellows on the team, and Eric got along really well with them," Piane said. 
Look for Morrison to improve upon his high school 1500-meter time of 3:51 and 800-meter time of 
1:51 during track season. 
Also joining the Irish men's team will be Colin Pogge of Iowa; Steve Lynch of Pennslyvania; Jon Gargano of Minnesota, Sean O'Donnell of Kansas City, John Shaw of Illinois, Michael Manning of Oregon and Brendan Barrett of New York. 
Indiana's own Terry Lennon, Ryan Johnson and Michael Zander also will challenge the course for the Irish this fall. 
Contact Katie Hughes at khughes@nd.edu. 


Incoming freshmen Lauren King of Lawrence High School in Toronto leads the Irish women's recruiting class. King will begin competition in October. 
Belles get competitive edge from freshmen 
By KATIE MCVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 
A competitive edge is some­thing every team needs, but the Saint Mary's class of 2005 is bringing more than that to the cross country team. It's bringing spirit and unity as well. 
"This class has a lot of spunk," returning junior Nicole Prezioso said. "They all want to win." 
Eight new freshmen and two transfer students are lining up along side the nine runners returning from last season. Returning senior Melissa Goss will be leading the pack, filling the shoes of last year's graduat­ing class. 
With the graduation of Genevieve Yavello, the Saint Mary's team lost a leader, both on and off the course. However, the incoming class is bringing with it a new feeling of team spirit. Coming from as far away as California and as close as Indiana, the team is already feel­ing united. 
"This team has really gotten close," Prezioso said. 
TThe addition of 10 runners has more than doubled the size of the team and is already push­ing hard in the early stages of the season. 
"The first week of practice is when the new [runners] want to prove themselves," Prezioso said. "So they're really pushing." 
Sohpomore Jackie Bauters, who transferred to Saint Mary's from Miami of Ohio. is ready to start running again. Saint Mary's offered her an opportunity to run that wasn't available before. 

"I really loved running on the team in high school, and I couldn't do that at Miami," she said. "I like competition, so I'm hoping to do well." 
The Belles finished in seventh place in the MIM for the second year in a row last season. Despite the low finish, Saint Mary's found success in team spirit rather than in high places. 
"Coach Barstis's philosophy is we're here to go to school first and run second," Prezioso said. "The focus has never been to win as much as to have fun." 
The freshmen will have two weeks to get into the college rou­tine before they're thrown into college competition. The season opens Sept. 7 at Aquinas College. Early season meets at Aquinas and North Park will help prepare the team for the MIAA Jamboree, the first time all eight MIM teams will face off. The Belles will later face off against all league competition in the MIM championship. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 

First Year Studies Library Tours 
Tours for First Year Students meet in the Hesburgh Library Concourse and last for 
ii 
approximately 30 minutes. No·registration is necessary. Each tour will highlight the available 
11 resources, services and collections within the University Libraries-of Notre Dame. 
Schedule of Tours: 
Saturday August 25 -10am & 11am 
Sunday, August 26 -2pm&3pm 
Monday, August 27 -2pm 

RECREATIONAL SPORTS UNIVERSIIT OF NOTRE 0Aw1E 
Welcome Studentsl 
lntramurals Fitness RecServices Club Sports 
Graduate Student Union Library Tour Tour meets in the Library Concourse on Monday, August 27 at 4:30 pm. All Graduate Students are welcomet 
Located in the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 
631-6100 www.nd.edu/ -recsport 
RECSPORTS STAFF WILL BE AVAILABLE AT THE RSRC TO ANSWER QUESTIONS ABOUT OUR PROGRAM 
Saturday, August 25, 2001 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

for the 2001-2002 Acaden1ic Year 

From the Division of Student Affairs 
Rev. tlark L. Poorman, C.S.C. 
Vice President for Student Affairs 316 Main Building 
631-7394 

~Ir. William Kirk  Dr. G. David Moss  Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C;  Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F.  
Assistant VP for Residence Life  Assistant VP for Student Affairs  Assistant VP for Student Affairs  As!:istant VP for Student Affairs  
316 Main Building  316 Main Building  316 Main Building  316 Main Building  
631-6144  631-5550  631-5550  631-5550  

11s. Ann Firth 
~Is. Jennifer Monahan 
Executive Assistant to the Vice President 
Assistant to the Vice President
316 Main Building 
316 Main Building

631-5550 
631-5550 

ALCHOHOL &DRUG EDUCATION CAMPUS !IINISTRY 
Ms. Gina Firth. Director Rev. Richard Warner. C.S.C.• Director 311 laFortune Student Center 316 Coleman-Morse Center 631-7970 631-7800 
CAREER UENTER INTERNATIONAL STUDENT SERVICES &ACTIVITIES 
Mr. lee Svete. Director Ms. Maureen Fitzgibbon. Director 248 Flanner Hall 204 LaFortune Student Center 631-5200 631-3825 
MULTICULTURAL STUDENT PROGR!MS &SERVICES RESIDENCE LIFE &HOUSING Ms. Iris Outlaw. Director Mr. Jeffrey Shoup. Director 210 LaFortune Student Center 305 Main Building 631-6841 631-5878 
SECURITY STUDENT ACTIVITIES 
Mr. Rex Rakow. Director 
Mr. Brian Coughlin. Director 101E Security Building 315 laFortune Student Center 631-5555 631-7308 
UNIVERSITY HEALTH SERVICES UNIVERSITY COUNSELING CENTER 
Ms. Ann E. Thompson, Director Dr. Patrick Utz. Director 217 Student Health Center 322 Student Health Center 631-7497 631-7336 
.... 

I 
I I I 
·-• I 
I I 
I I 
The Observer . SPORTS Sarurday, Augusr 25, 2001 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
New recruits spend summer on campus 
the same classes, we'd go to
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
lunch. It was almost as if we
Sports Editor 
were forced to interact and get along with each other. Just being It was the summer between set up in that way, we were pret­high school and college. ty much with each other 
Some students got jobs earning throughout the whole day." meager sums as camp coun­Krause served as a guide for selors. house painters or any­her teammates at first. The thing else for some extra pizza granddaughter of the legendary money. Others hit the road, former Notre Dame athletic spending valuable time with fam­director Moose Krause attended ily before leaving home for the Notre Dame's basketball camp first time. the past several summers. 
But for four Krause sees members of the summer
"They were able to come
Notre Dame classes paying women's bas­in here and get a great off next March. ketball's class "It was a
jump on where they need 
of 2005, it good transition 
to be in terms of
was a sum­from high mer of prepa­conditioning, where they school to col­ration and lege," Krause
need to be in terms ofthe 
learning -said. "When
weight room. " tournament
Notre Dame s t y 1 e . time comes I'll Because of a be glad I took
Muffet McGraw 
rule passed the classes." 
head coach
by the NCAA last spring, the University is now allowed to pay for freshman athletes to come to Notre Dame and attend summer school before their freshman year. 
"In the past they would have been allowed to come but they would have had to pay all their own expenses," said Irish coach Muffet McGraw. "The NCAA finally allowed us to pay for them. It had to do with gradua­tion rates. They thought if they came in, got their courses, it would kind of get them on the right path and get them a couple more credits." 
So Allison Bustamante, Kelsey Wicks, Teresa Borton and Jill Krause walked off the graduation podium and onto the Notre Dame campus. They lived together in Pasquerilla East. Washington native Borton roomed with fellow Northwestemer Wicks, from Wyoming. City girls Krause, from Chicago, and Bustamante, from Miami, shared a room across the hall. They all took the same two classes: Calculus 105 and Theology 200. 
"We were always together." Bustamante said. "We were in 
When they 

weren't in class or the dorm, where the vet­eran women's basketball players, in town working at the camp also stayed, the women could be found working out under the guidance of strength and condi­tioning coach Tony Rolinski. McGraw thinks that experience will be most beneficial when the team begins practicing in October. 
"The biggest difference between the high school and the college games is the pace of the game and the strength of the players," McGraw said. "They were able to come in here and get a great jump on where they need to be in terms of condition­ing, where they need to he in terms of the weight room. That's going to be very important to them." 
Bustamante was surprised by the different workouts Rolinski used to improve the athletes' physical condition. 
"I did a lot of bike workouts which I'd hardly ever done," Bustamante said. "The whole intensity of the workout was a step higher than I've ever done before. It was a big shock." 
With every returning member of last year's championship team other than reserve guard Karen Swanson in town, the players hit The Pit and Rolf's for pickup games. 
In a relaxed atmosphere with• out coaches. the freshman were able to gauge their abilities and go one-on-one with future team­mates. 
"I usually go up against [6-3 junior center Amanda Barksdale],'' said Borton, who also measures 6-foot-3. "She's really good. I think I've improved a little bit just getting used to playing against a taller player. At home I've always been the tallest player." 
Bustamante, a 5-foot-11, 3­point threat, went up against tal­ented defenders Alicia Ratay and Monique Hernanandez. 
"You have to work a lot harder to get your shot off, you have to be in constant movement," Bustamante said. "The game's just completely different coming from high school into college." 
With Niele Ivey now playing in the WNBA, Krause will compete with Le'Tania Severe for time at point guard 
"We played against each other every day," Krause said. "It chal­lenged me and I loved it. The first couple of times I was out there she took it to me a couple of times. Playing against that just made me better hopefully." 
As far as McGraw is concerned, the six freshmen -including South Bend's Jackie Batteast, who participated in pickup games but did not attend classes, and Colorado native Katie Flecky -will need to contribute, but will not be relied upon for scor­ing. But with Barksdale being the only returning post player. Flecky. Borton and Batteast are expected to see considerable court time. 
"Teresa. Katie and Jackie are all going to see significant time," McGraw said. "We don't have anything where we're saying we need somebody to score X num­ber of points or get X number of rebounds. We have no statistical goals for them at all, we just want to see who's going to fit in with the framework of the going to be a much different offense." team. We're going to be a lot 


That offense will look quite dif. more mobile. We're going to be ferent than it has in the past, running a little bit more, pressing with the Irish no longer counting a little bit more. We're going to on 30-plus points per game from just have a whole new philosophy Ruth Riley and Kelley Siemon in on the offense." the post. 
"We're not going to be able to replace Ruth Riley and we're not Contact Noah Amstadter at trying to," McGraw said. "We're amstadter. l@nd.edu. 
Best Price, Quality & Selection.· 

Futon Factory Futons are the Smart Choice for Back-to-School 
--Futons to frt every room and bud~t -Financing & delivery options available. --Close to campus! --Over 500 futon cover fabrics available. --futon covers start at --8 futon mattress grades. --Ove.-20 different frame styles flt every decor: --Home accessories & more. --Futon specialists since 1991. 
FUTON FACI~ORY 
SOFA BY DAY BED BY NIGHT 
5632 Graoe Road 
On Gf!fM! ROMI bebl~-Pier-Orie Imports 
~19-273-2660 

Saturday, August 25, 200 l The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Saturday, August 25th, 200 l 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



p!!~~~!~!!!d~PPliCB!!~ mailbox 
ND Off-Campus Undergrads On Enrollment Monday at the Stadium Box Of.ice 
ND Law/MBA/Grad From your college Saint Mary's students From SMC 
Obtain vo1r lotteq number 01 Enrollmem SI p
londav, August 21, 9-5, Stadium Bax Office 
Students will be seated by class. Each student may bring up to SIX applications. You MUST have a lottery number in numerical order with your group in order to sit with them. 


The s:1rting lottery number will be drawn at 8:00 p.m. on Monday, August 27 at Stepan Center. E-mail and phone annm ·11cements will be made following the lottery ofthe number. The sequence number can also be found www.nd. edul~sao after 00 p.m. To reflect the smaller class size, Law/MBA/Grad students will have a separate number. 

Purchase vaur season tickets at tlle Stadium Box Office 
Guidelines for Undergrad Ticket Distribution Schedule: 
P

If your number is within: · 
*400 of the selected number, show up at start time 
*400-800 of the selected lottery number, show up 20 minutes past start time 
*800-1200 of the selected lottery number, show up 40 minutes past start time 
*1200-1600 of the selected lottery m.:;11bc -~how up 1 hour past start time 
* 1600-2000 of the selected lottery numl:,er, show up 90 minutes past start time 
*If you have no seating preference or no lottery number, show up 3 hours after start time 
Check calendar below for stanUmes bV class 
Bring Ticket Applications and I.D.s. Cash or checks only. Checks must have the student's phone number 
on them! Each student may bring up to six I.D.s. 
.. IJOll.day 
9:00-5:00 Lottery 
sequence numbers 
available at Stadium Box 
Office. You MUST have a 
lottery. sequence number in numerical order with your group to be able to sit with them. ie. If you plan to sit with 10 friends, you must have 10 sequential lottery numbers. 8:30pm Lottery number drawn. Email and phone announcements will be made to notify students. 
' 
I I 
I 
I ,,­
tuesday, 
8:00am SENIOR start time for ticket purchases at Stadium Box Office. 
wednesday 
7:00am JUNIOR start time for ticket purchases at Stadium Box Office. 
2:00pm Law/MBA/Grad start time for ticket purchases at Stadium Box Office. 

thursday 
7:00am SOPHOMORE start time for ticket purchases at Stadium Box Office. 
2:00pm FRESHMAN start time for ticket purchases at Stadium Box Office. 

Saturday, August 25, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 33 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Soccer 
continued from page 36
New coach brings fresh approach 
last year. Early season losses of then-junior Jessica Klink, then­
By CHRIS FEDERICO Spom Writer 
The end of summer brings about changes everywhere ­students go back to classes, the days grow shorter and the air gets cooler. This fall brings much-anticipated change. And the men's soccer team is no exception. 
After a subpar 2000 campaign, Notre Dame released interim head coach Chris Apple last December and hired Stanford's Robby Clark as his rnplacement in early March. Clark, who has a knack for turning around strug­gling programs, seems to be the perfect fit for the Irish. 
"When I went into previous places I tried to let the players have a good time playing soc­cer," Clark said. "If we have a good time and make ourselves into a team, then good things will come out ofit." 
In 1985, Clark took over a struggling Dartmouth team and led them to seven winning sea­sons in nine years, three Ivy League Championships and two NCAA Quarterfinal appearances. After that, he did the same with the Stanford program, taking them to the NCM tournament four years in a row, highlighted by a championship game appearance in 1998. 
The coach insists that the key to a turnaround lies in the play­ers and allowing them to get back to having fun playing as a team. 
Coach Clark brings with him six talented freshmen, led by midfielders Kevin Goldthwaite and Jack Stewart and goalkeep­er Chris Sawyer. The freshmen seem excited to have the oppor­tunity to be a part of the pro­gram as it starts off on a new path with a new coach. 
Sawyer, a 6-foot-2 goalkeeper from Highlands Ranch, Colo., was originally recruited by Apple, but he is enthusiastic about Clark and the current path of the soccer program. 
"The players that were here already have said that the change was definitely for the best," said Sawyer. "We all thought great things about Coach Apple, but I think this is the way we need to go as a team." 
The excitement of the young players about the upcoming years is evident. 
"We're stoked [about the changes]." said Goldthwaite, a talented midfielder from Sacramento, Calif., who is con­sidered one of the best recruits at hic; position. "You can already see the enthusiasm in the atti­tudes of the players." 
Most importantly, the young players already understand their roles in the grov.1.h and develop­ment of the team. 
"We understand that we'll get some playing time," said Sawyer, "but if we're not on the field, we know that we just have to work to make the other players bet­ter." 
Also new to the squad are defenders Christopher High and Gianni Mauro and midfielder Luke Boughen. 
Members of the team are excited about the way the pro­gram is progressing; however. 
~•:!xP1•:1u1,:r-;(•1.; 'l'IIE I\I0!-.·1· COI\IF()HTABLJ•: CIIAJH. (11N 1\IA'I, HE J,;,·1,;N TIii•: llNIVl•:IU,oll•J! 
(in1•;AT l•'OH IX)H['\I IU)()l\1::-... ,u,;c. H()OI\U,... AND Al,L 

BRIAN PUCEYICH!The Observer Freshman goalkeeper Chris Sawyer leaps high in the air to make a save during practice earlier this week. Sawyer is one of six freshmen who will play for first-year coach Bobby Clark. 


they realize they have a chal­lenge before them. The team, which did not make the Big East tournament last year, returns to 
l•:AH'l'l-l..-
AllOllNI> '1'111-G IIOlJHl•J.. 

ll.,YI•: YOl'll CIIAIH. YOUH '\\".,\.'\····-·" l--,l'l.;I•~. I\IANY UIFl•'l•;lfl•~N'I' !-.TYLl•;!,o ANI> I\IOHM Tt1,,.i.._ 2r. (,'01,ll)HS 'l'O ('11()(>!-<I-G l•'HOI\I. l•'ASI ll()NABL.... I\U•~llUI•~ '\Vl'l'II Ai"'liY Ol~('()U. 1'-1uc11 BNl'l'l•:U ·1·1-1AN !-.l'rl'll",(; ()'.",; TI-IM IIAHU, ()1,1) UOlll\l ('OlTCH. No ;\.l,oiSl•'.!\.IHl,Y lll•;QUIIU•:n -.l{lSI' OP1•;N THI;; HOX ,\.NI> Sl'I'!? 

Log on. t.o 
~""W".:n.o-tabea:n.ba.g.oom 
<"a II l-888-86!).(164-4 t.o pince ~·c>tn· o ¦ -clc•·· 

play in one of the toughest soccer conferences in the nation. The Big East boasts last seasons national champion, Connecticut, and preseason Top 20 pick St. John's. 
"This year it is important for us to become a team," said Clark. "They lost some close games last year to tough oppo­nents, but when we develop into a solid team, those close games will start to go our way." 
As the Irish prepare for their first season under their a coach, they appear ready to start on the path to national prominence in soccer. 
"We've got a difficult task ahead of us," said Clark. "It will be tough, but it will be fun. The thing about team sports on this level is that it is such a challenge. We will be challenged, but I think we will be able to handle it." 
Notre Dame kicks off Big East competition Sept. 1 at home against Villanova. 
Contact Chris Federico at federico.2@nd.edu. 

sophomore Alissa Brasseur and then-freshman Emily Erchick were compounded by a head injury that ended the season of leading scorer Heather Muth. 
A year later, Johnston is work­ing to prevent such catastrophes. 
"We're working on a lot of injury prevention, so we don't experience the injuries that hap­pened last year," Johnston said. 
Muth, however, has not report­ed to camp yet. She is still recov­ering from an injury she incurred over the summer. Johnston, who gave her permis­sion not to report, hopes she will be back at Saint Mary's later next week. 
Compounding the challenge for the Belles this season is find­ing a new goalkeeper. Tia Kapphahn. who finished last season in goal for the Belles, sus­tained a career-ending knee injury during the off-season. 
Injured or not, the Belles have a lot of ground to cover before they open their regular season in September. 
"We have a lot to cover in a short period of time," Johnston said. 
An informal scrimmage against Bethel on Thursday and a formal scrimmage against Indiana Tech on Saturday will offer the new Saint Mary's play­ers and their new coach their first taste of college competition. 
Although Johnston is only in his first year at Saint Mary's, the coaching staff is not wholly unfa­miliar with life on campus. Assistant coach Lisa Reinke, a 1997 graduate of the College, will use her experience with Saint Mary's to add understand­ing for players and coaches alike. 
"I went through everything [the players] have been through. So, I know how they feel," Reinke said. "I think that helps Bobby [Johnston]." 
The Belles will open their reg­ular season on Sept. 1 with tour­nament play in Memphis at Rhodes College. Saint Mary's plays Rhodes Sept. 1 and Millsaps Sept. 2. Fellow MIAA school Albion College will also be competing in the tournament. 
The tournament will provide a chance for the team to get ready before MIAA play starts as well as expose the Saint Mary's name to other teams across the coun­try. 
"It's a good season opener," Johnston said. "We want to trav­el and get the Saint Mary's name out there." 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 


page 34 The Observer . SPORTS Saturday, August 25, 2001 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Thomas, Cornette thrive on new, added pressure 


that made success in
"That's the toughest 
Thomas and high school
adjustment for a fresh-
fellow fresh­means he man basketball man guard. Coming from f a c e s recruit Jordan tremendous
high school where you
Cornette two of pressure in
were jacking it all the 
the top prep college to athletes in the time to involving some produce ­nation. And particularly
other guys and getting
Notre Dame since the
into the quarterback
head coach Irish have Mike Brey is mentality." no estab­more than lished point happy to have guard after
Mike Brey
them on the Martin 
head coach
team. Ingelsby 
"Their quick­ness, their speed, it allows us to do a lot more things on the floor defen­sively, that we couldn't do last year," he said. "We can pick guys up further downcourt rather than at the 3-point line." 
There is a lot expected of Thomas and Cornette. In the wake of former Notre Dame for­ward Troy Murphy's early departure for the NBA, the Irish have a tremendous gap to fill. 
And while Brey is counting on established veterans Ryan Humphrey, David Graves, Harold Swanagan and Matt Carroll to pick up their play, he hopes that the new Irish fresh­men will be able to make some sort of impact. 
"We don't have a body like Jordan's in our program," Brey said about the 6-9, 210-pound Cornette. 'The thing he brings right away is that he can guard people. He can guard 6-2 guys and he can guard 6-8 guys." 
But while Brey is excited about Cornette's defensive capabilities, he is excited about the wealth of potential in Thomas. 
"He's got an impressive resume," Brey said. "He's got a lot to back up -and he's earned it. This kid has won his whole life. There are some guys that when the lights are the brightest, they rise to the occa­sion. This is one of his personal­ity traits which makes him a special guy." 
Shop the shops at the F.ast Bank Emporium Bldg. Area's largest selection of 
VERA BRADLEY 
backpacks, luggage & other accessories see the new colors at 
WEAR.ABOUTS 
Jn§l,io11 witb n Jfnir ,;Yew nrrit,11/s dnil![l 
Fall Hours: Mon -Fri. to to 6. Sat 10-5 -(219) 232-8488 Next to 'ID.lye ~ole 7,1ol.e, downtow11, South Bend T21 S Niles at Jefferson at the river. 5 hlocks east ofNotre Dame Ave. 
graduated. 
Aside from Thomas, only sophomore Chris Markwood -who sat out all of last season with an injury -is the only other possibility Brey is considering to play point. 
"[Thomas} has a very good chance at starting this year," Brey said. "I mean, who's our other point guard? Really, the only other point guard in our program is Chris Markwood ... and he's coming back off of knee surgery and isn't quite 100 percent." 
Brey feels that Thomas' most difficult challenge will be learn­ing to look to pass first rather than to shoot first, a sentiment Thomas echoes. After all, Thomas has a solid group of perimeter shooters in Graves and Carroll and a pair of big, physical post players in Humphrey and Swanagan. 
"That's the toughest adjust­ment for a freshman guard," Brey said. "Coming from high school where you were jacking it all the time to involving some other guys and getting into the quarterback mentality." 
"He just wants me to distrib­ute the ball." said Thomas. "Especially with the seniors, they're happy, they're getting the ball, because that opens up my time to create and score a little bit." 
Fortunately for Brey, the Irish veterans are doing their part to help them get acclimated to col­lege basketball. Both freshmen have spoken with members of the team and have had a chance to work out with their teammates during Notre Dame's summer basketball camp. 
And Thomas has an added resource -former Irish point guard Jngelsby, who is now an intern with the Notre Dame sports information department. 
"We're really good friends," Thomas said. "He's not only gonna be one of my coaches, but my mentor. He told me that, and I'm going to hold him up to that." 
"[Ingelsby] isn't allowed to actually get out on the floor and coach because he's not on our staff," Brey said. "But they're close and they have a relation­ship from Chris' recruiting. I have a feeling they're going to be spending some time with each other doing lunch." 
But it doesn't matter how much Brey and Co. talk to Thomas and Cornette -the pressure still remains. Pressure from themselves, pressure from their teammates, pressure from their coaches, and pressure from the media. What remains to be seen is how they respond. 
"Coach and I, we talk almost every day, and we have a great relationship," said Thomas. "He said, 'Chris, there's going to be times when I might get on you a little bit and there's going to be times where I'm just going to say go play.' I think that coach has that sort of confidence in me that I can go out and get the job done." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 

By ANDREW SOUKUP A.,sociare Sporn Editor 
Chris Thomas doesn't seem to be all that different from the typical Notre Dame freshman. He's worried about the academ­ic pressure. He's worried about managing his time. And he's worried about fitting in. 
And then Thomas gave the 

reason why he was worried. 
"I'd much rather be in the gym all day than doing my work," he said. 
It's this kind of work ethic 
With a player of Thomas's caliber, though, it's hard to imagine what he hasn't accom­plished. He led his high school team to a pair of state champi­onships. He's been named Indiana's Mr. Basketball and earned just about every type of All-American award imagin­able. He's played in so many all­star games he's lost count, and 
in the annual McDonald's All­
American game, Brey believes he would have been named the game's MVP had he played more minutes. 
B u t 
Thomas' 

Saturday, August 25, 200 I The Ohseroer . TODAY page 35 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
THI~S. YOV NEVER WANT TO HEAR OUT OF YCllA ROOMMATE ON THE FIRST DAY Of' SCHOOL .. 
.TOHN TESH ANC YANNI... ON THE SAME CD?l? HOW CAN 
WE LOSE?t;> 

FOXTROT 
I oWE. YOU AN ,e,.poLoG'I', RoGE.R. 
RYAN

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNINGHAM 



THE. ICIDS HAI> A GREAT TIME ot,I THIS VACATIOl'II, AND 1T WAS SELFISH oF 
OOPS. I SEEM TO HAVE bROPPEtl MY TOOTH8RVSH IN THE GARBAGE. OH WAIT. NOPE, THIS IS YOlftlS. 
TOM KEELEY 
YOV KNOW... IF we PU:SHEb THE ems TOGETHER, WE COULb S,WE A TON OF f~ SPACE... 
BILLAMEND 
NOW LET'S TALk
YES, I oWE 'YOU 
THANK A8oUT WHAT You
AN APOLoG'I' 
'!'OU. OWE ME AFTE~
81G-T1ME. 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 29 Role in many 59 Noted Big Apple teen flicks bistro
It helps you get 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON You know better, so don't become 
a ride 31 Normally 60 Muscle that 
THIS DAY: Elvis Costello, Sean trapped in unsafe financial
rotates a part . 
8 nme and 32 They were 
Connery, Billy Ray Cyrus, Regis schemes. Avoid confrontations
outward temperature, named after 
Philbin, Blair Underwood, Joanne with friends or relatives. You are 
e.g. Henry's son 61 Tum over again 
Whalley, Ke! Mitchell not in a winning cycle when it 
Happy Birthday: Your will­comes to debates. Be careful as
62 Bases15 like some 34 Assets aplenty 
ingness to help the less fortunate minor accidents are possible. 000
zoning in the 38 Indulge 
will bring praise, recognition and LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22):
suburbs DOWN 
satisfaction this year. Also Take care of the little things
42 Give birth to 

admired will be your ability to around the house. Be quick to
16 Style 1 Puzo family
43 Really name 
look at the big picture and find respond to whatever occurs, and 17 Be a •survivor" interrogates 
solutions. Share findings with the you can accomplish plenty today. 
2 Made sacred, in
contestant pertinent people in order to reach You will have perspective on
46 Dundee away 

the goals you set. Your numbers: your life and loved ones. 000
18 Public disavowal 
3 Iterates 6, 19, 24, 30, 37, 39 SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
hangings? 
47 Be in another ARIES (March 21-April 19): Honesty will play a major role in 
4 Product made
19 Precise form An increase in communications controlling the situation at home.
with yeast 
can be favorable if you don't con­If you are courteous, calm and
20 Babka need 48 They may 
5 Pale yellow fuse issues. Be careful what is mature in dealing with issues,
appear before 

21 Privately said to whom. Be preparedjo loved ones will respect you. 000
6 Sect follower 
ramps deal with the dilemmas of family SAGITTARIUS (N°" 22..IJec. 21):
23 E-mail acldress 
7 Schedule C members. 000 Be careful. It may be fun to pre­
52 Part of a pound

ending figure TAURUS (April 20-May 20): tend that you're a race-car driver, 24 Native: Suffix 56 College head 8 Not so dense Be patient and listen If you force but the officer who stops you your opinions on your partner, won't be the least bit impressed. 
25 Where zippers 57 Prerecorded 9 Actress 
you'll grow further apart. Allow Stick to the rules, regardless of 
may get caught 58 Cornmeal mush 
others to do their own thing. 00 the situation. 000 
Defiant Ones" 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan_ 19): In-laws or neiitlibors are likely to You can meet potential new part·
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 8ta11 to freeze? 
cause difficufties today. Try to ners at community meetings.
-......-.....,:-r,..-r.~ 11 Miss 

stay to yourself and refuse to be Your interest in the region will
Puzzle by Dlvld J. Kahn

TOP PR I 
C T S O N 12 Having a worse baited into a heated discussion. lead to a leadership position.
44 Firebird 51 "The Strange

ONE LIN LYES T caseottheflu 35 Keep Spend time alone with your lover 0000 36 Home of Love of Martha for best results. 000 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):
....+~R....,,,T+=L+eE..-t 13 Title girl of a 45 They ring some
Kendall College _. (1946 film) CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't blame your mate forE S 1965 hit song 
necks Spend time doing things with mishaps that you may have con­
37 React to a 53 Cat's eye,

14 Clinches children or your partner. You can tributed to. Take a break, and
49 Valuable find sometimes

sidewinder handle him or her. Get involved invite mutual friends over to
22 notch 
39 Challenge for 54 Playwright Howe in fitness programs that will help relieve some of the tension that 
26 Prefix with bond 50O1d Roman
Hillary distract you from anger or dis­has built up. 00
sandal 55 Of all time 

27 Year in putes. 000 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
40 Presiding 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Con­Romantic opportunities will
Justinian l's 
masquer in a centrate on fixing up the house. unfold if you participate in inter· 
reign 

Mardi Gras Answers to any three clues in this puzzle esting seminars. Move back into 
There'll be a fight if your mate28Texas_ festival are available by touch-tone phone: doesn't feel you've been carrying the mainstream by picking up 1·900·420·5656 (95¢ per minute). your weight. 000 information regarding your
.,..+..+..+.,.+,,.....,,+.-.--t 30 Pack of sharks? 41 Fall initiator, 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): future prospects. 00000
ASLEEP PASTORAL 31About perhaps Annual subscriptions are available for the T H E Y R E A L T E R E G O 33 Parts of some 43 Onetime TV best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
Birthday Baby: Your high-powered energetic nature will help you 
H I D E R s N E A R E A s T choruses judge years: 1-888-7·ACROSS. see pursuits through to the end. You will always look out for the llllderdog and will stay ahead of any competition by doing the little extras. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialaslcom, astromate.com.) 
© 2001 Univenal Press Syndicate 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester Name Address ------------------------­
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
O
THE 
BSERVER

Campus Sports 
Campus Sports 
. 
Men's Basketball, p. 34 . SMC Cross Country, p. 28 

. 
Men's Soccer, p. 33 . ND Women's Soccer, p. 26 

. 
ND Women's Basketball, p. 30 . ND Volleyball, p. 24


PORTS

. ND Cross Country, p. 28 . SMC Volleyball, p. 21 
Saturday, August 25, 2001 

FOOTBALL 
Ready for what's next 
--· 
• Freshmen football players begin making adjustment from high school to college play 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Associate Sports Editor 
For most members of the class of 2005, orientation weekend will be their first experience on campus. However, its alreadv weekend No. 3 for the 19 recruits that have be~n practicing wltb the Irish foot­ball tflam since Aug. 12. 
Despite those extra two weeks designated to help the freshmen adjust to college life, Notre Dame head coach Bob Davie believes the freshman football play­ers face challenges similar to the typical Notre Dame student. 
"In a way ... they're not that much different from any other freshmen," he said. 
The physical adjustment process began early this summer. Under NCAA rules, Irish coaches are not permitted to supervise workouts of any football play­ers until the firsi day of practice. However, strength and conditioning coach Mickey Marotti sent training programs home to (;)Very freshman football player this summer -programs that have already produced dra­matic results. 
"He's given us a lot of position-oriented drills," said 310-pound tight end Mark LeVoir. ''I've lost about 40 pounds already and gotten a lot stronger and faster." 
"I've noticed a tremendous difference from high school workouts," added wide receiver Matt Shelton. "It's much more specific and it targets certain muscle groups." 
But as any upperclassman will readily admit, the most difficult part of making the switch from high school to college is the mental preparations, not the physical training. Every member of the Irish football team plays a role in helping the freshmen adjust. The Big Brother/Little Brother program, in which an upperclassman serves as a mentor to a freshman, is just one method used to accommodate freshmen to college competition. 
"The transition from being a high school senior to a college freshman is a pretty big step," sophomore quarterback Matt Lovecchio said. 
Lovecchio should know. Last year, the depth chart listed Lovecchio behind Arnaz Battle and Garv Godsey. But after a season-ending injury to Battle 
see FOOTBALL/page 21 

SMC SOCCER 
First-year coach brings fresh start 
By KATIE McVOY Sports Writer 
It will be a season of firsts for the Saint Mary's soccer team. 
After finishing last season with a disappointing 3-U-1 record, the Belles are looking to make a fresh start \\ith some old faces for leadership and some new faces for motivation. 
Under the guidance of first-year head coach Bobby Johnston, a hopeful freshman class may con­tribut!' for the B<'lles. 
"We have some very promising 

freshmen this year that will make 
an immedi­
ate impact," 
Johnston 
said. Johnston has not named his starting line­up yet, but by the end of August he expects to know who the top 1.4 will be. Johnston is. looking to the team to 

decide its own destiny. 
"Our success is going to ride on how focused the women are," he said. 
With a first year head coach, the Saint Mary's team will have some adjusting to do -a new coaching pattern and a new sys­tem. However, the Class of 2005 will have four years to tune in to .Johnston's stvle. 
Johnston sees the length of time he will have with the incoming class as a benefit. 
"Every coach has a system, what type of formation he wants to run," he said. "By the time [the freshmen] are juniors everything will be natural and we can focus on other things." 

What those other things may be remains to be seen. With full day practices just beginning last Monday, the team is still formu­lating goals. Johnston, however, is looking for a winning season. 
· "We're going to be close to .500," he said. 
The first step towards a win­ning season is preventing the injuries that plagued the team 
see SOCCERlpage 33 
Sports is 
life at Notre Dame 
"Notre Dame has great academics," you told your parents. "The classes are small," you told your teach­ers. "I think I'll fit in there," you told your friends. 
"I 
can't 
wait 
until the 
first 
football 
game," 
you told 
yourself. 
And 
hey, 
that's 
OK my 
friends. 
Because 
sports are a way of life here. 
This isn't Hippie U. where 
we'd rather strum a guitar 
and listen to poetry readings 
all day. This is Sports 
Illustrated's No. 2 jock 
school, and we don't trv to 
hide it. . 
This is the school where 
we dissect every play of 
every football game for a 
week, and only stop our 
analysis to watch the next 
week's game. If a player is 
injured at practice, the dude 
studying in some desolate 
corner of the library's 12th 
floor knows about it within 
15 minutes. 
On some campuses, the 
guy next door is earning 
money designing web pages 
or proofreading manuscripts. 
At Notre Dame, that guy's 
selling bootleg T-shirts for 
the football games that say 
"Nebraska: The N Stands for 
Knowledge" or "Rudy Might 
Have Sucked, But He'd Start 
at Boston College" or the 
always crowd-pleasing 
"Muck Fichigan." 
And for such a sports­
thirsty campus, it's especially 
sweet that we're coming off 
the best year in Notre Dame 
sports history, in terms of 
overall sports achievement. 
We were in the Fiesta Bowl. 
We won a women's basket­
ball national championship. 
Almost all of our teams were 
ranked for part or all of the 
season. 
Rut here's the interesting 
part. For such a sports­
obsessed school, we appreci­
ate tho competition as much 
as the final score. We want 
to win, but we equally 
appreciate tenacious efforts, 
inspired play. and heroic 

see BALTRUZAK/page 21 


. Men's Soccer vs. Michigan, Sunday, 2:30 p.m. 
. ND Volleyball vs. SW Texas State, Friday, 7 p.m. 

. ND Women's Soccer vs. Penn State, Friday, 7:30 p.m.AT AGLANCE . SMC Volleyball vs. Bethel, Sept. 3, 7 p.m. 







