

Davie Leaves With Class
CLOUDY 
Monday 

After a straight forward press conference, Davie walks away ,vith pride 
and tact. The community should respect his graceful exit. 
DECEMBER 3,

HIGH 51° 
Editorial . page 9
LOW 48° 
2001 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. St HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Associate Sports Editor 
vVhen Bob Davie was named the head football coach at Notre Dame five years ago, he received some advice from a man who had been in his position before. 
"I think back to the thing Ara Parseghian told me when I first took the job," Davie said. "Win." 
He didn't \tin nearly enough. Notre Dame athletic director Kevin White fired Davie Sunday morning after Notre Dame's second losing season in three years. 
"I felt we were in a place that I could no longer say that we could actually stand up and say that we were putting together a pro­gram in place that could contend, if not win, the national championship," White said. "I really believe we need to restart this thing." 
Davie's 35-25 record is the third-worst winning percentage in Notre Dame history. 


"A year ago at this time, I believed that we had turned the corner under Bob, and that we were prepared to reclaim our traditional standing among the nation's eltie college programs. Today, I can no longer say that." 
Kevin White 

Notre Dame Athletic Director 
Under Davie's tenure, the Irish produced only one first-round draft pick and zero first­team All-Americans. The NCAA also sanc­tioned the football program for the first time in school history during Davie's third year when Irish players were found to be having inappropriate relations with athletic booster Kim Dunbar during Lou Holtz's tenure. 
Davie, who spoke for nearly a half-hour in a calm and composed voice, said that while he was disappointed \\ith the decision, he was not bitter toward White, the athletic department or Notre Dame. He thanked his wife Joanne and his two children, Audra and Clay, for the support they have given him this season. 
"One thing I'm not i5 a phony," Davie said. "It is hard for me to hide my di,:;appointment that I won't be back as the head football coach of Notre Dame. But with that said, I accept the decision." 
see DAVIE/page 3 

Students contemplate future of Irish football 
. Some speculate on choice of next Irish football coach 
By SHEILA EGTS 
News Writer 

Frustrating. Disappointing. Upsetting. According to some members of 
coach Bob Davie. 
After the announcement of Davie's firing at a press conference yesterday, students were left to evaluate the overall season and speculate about the future direc­tion of the program. 
"I just think this season was real up and down, starting off 0-3, then winning three in a row really got my hopes up that the season might do a 180 degree turn," said Dillon just a rough year to be a fan." 
However, a "rough year" for fans can.hardly compare to the rough year experienced by Bob Davie. who will go down in the record boolffi as the only head coach to be officially fired by the University. 
Junior football manager Dawn Terashima said, "Many of the managers have a lot sympathy for the entire coaching staff. We see him every day, almost as much as behind the scenes like Terashima expressed sympathy for Davie, but couldn't deny that his firing was predictable. 
"Devie seemed to be a good guy and into academics and every­thing. but he didn't meet the expectations," said freshman Vincent McKinney. "And when you're coaching at Notre Dame, you can't do that." 
"I feel bad for him after the criti­tion. I can see why measures were taken to do that." 
Other more critical fans felt that getting rid of Davie was just the first step towards a much-need change and an essential step in redeeming the slipping tradition of Notre Dame's program. 
First-year graduate student Rex Rallanka said, "I've been here since Davie's first year and he never impressed me throughout 

the Notre Dame student body, Hall freshman Justin Spack. 'Then the players. I see Davie as a real cism he faced all season," said his entire tenure." these are just a few words used to losing those close games to Boston person, not just the head coach of sophomore Heather Shull. "But I 'Tm very in favor of the firing describe the Irish's 5-6 losing sea­College, Tennessee and Stanford Notre Dame." completely understand the priority and I was hoping they would son under the leadership of head basically broke my heart. It was Even fans that are not active at this University to uphold tradi-announce a new head coach at the 
see REACTION/page 3 

. . . 
. . . . ~ 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Monday, December 3, 2001 

INSIDE COLUMN 





Christmas in ••• October? 
One weekend in mid-November, I am driving to a restaurant to have dinner with my family. We turn a corner, and a forest oft"winkling, colored lights 
dazzles the eye. Christma-; light-; were up. 
Aftnr Thanksgiving dinner, I go to stand by my mother as she looks out the vvindow. The street is dark, and we looked out at the familiar houses lit by the soft glow of the street lamps. And the strings of lights that lined the trees and bushes. And the illuminated sleigh and rein­deer set on the corner. Christmas lights \Vere up. 
I return to campus to find icicle lighti, lighting the path to the door of my dorm, and a Christmas tree in the lobby. 

Katie McKenna 
Graphics Editor 

And another tree in O'Shaughnessy. One in the bookstore. Various dorms sport different interpre­tations of holiday decorations, inside and out. As do various dorm rooms. Even the Dining Hall is deco­rated, with Christmas carols constantly played over the loudspeaker. Christmm; lights were up. 
Nmv, I love Christmas. Tim decorations, the shopping, the tn~es, the celebration -all of it. I have fond memories of the family piling into the mini-van to cruise the neighborhood, looking at all the decorations and singing our favorite Christmas songs. But not in November. 
Christmas is starting earlier and earlier every year. Some ston~s have Christmas displays up by Halloween, which is more than a little excessive. All ofthem have decked their halls by Thanksgiving. How early does the holiday sea'ion have to start? 
For those who have not checked their calendars lately, Christmas Day is Dec. 25. There is no need to bci-,rin the Christma-; activities two months before­hand. Walking into a room to here the familiar melodics of Christmas music in October is just plain disconcerting. My roommat<~ is a bit of a ChristimL'i freak, and so it happened to me. We had to make a rule that there was to be no more Christmas activity until after Thanksgiving. It almost worked. Putting up strings of blinking, colored light.;; in the middle of November will only confusP people, making them wonder ifthey woke up a month after they went to bed. 
The ollicial start of' the commercial, er, Christmas season is the Friday after Thanksgiving. Millions of people rush to the mall to get a jump on their holi­day activities. And in many cases, it is also the day the Christmas lighl<i go up. They will stay there, burning brightly, for at least a month and half, probably more. But how long will they be noticed? Ughl'> that have become a common part of the gen­eral scenery will be much less appreciated on Christmas Eve. especially if they have been up since Thanksgiving Eve. 
Most people will agree that Christma'i is a very special time, mai-,rical even. But part of that magic is that Christma'i is fleeting, it comes and it goes every year. To drag out the Christmas season would be to stretch out that magical time. It \\ill only stretch for so far before it breaks. 
During her October Christma-; music period, my roommate said something to the effect that the spir­it ofChristmas lives all year long. Well, the spirit may, but the decorations don't have to. Whatever happern~d to the Twelve Days. anyway? 
Contact Kalie McKenna at kmckenna@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS/ CLARIFICATIONS 
In the Nov. 30 edition ofThe Observer, a line was inadvcrrenrly left out ofJason McFarley's arricl,.. "ND asks for lawsuit dismissal." The final sentence should have been printed as: "The former Jccounring professor alleged sex discrimination factored inro the University's decision in 1993 to deny her tenure." The Observer regrets rhe error. 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and s1rives for che highesr standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 111ist,1ke, please comact us at 631-4541 so that we can correct our error. 
The Oh.,.,,v.,, (USPS 599 2-4000) i, publi,hed Monday rhrough Friday cx,cpc during eum an<I v,1-Jtion p,::rimk The Ob_,crver is a member of the A"m:i.lll'd Pre". All reproduction right, arc: re,ervcd. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 

Monday  Tuesday  
. Lecture: "After the  . Lecture: Jack Welch,  
Academic Village: IIT and  retired General Electric  
the Urban Laboratory,"  CEO, Jordan Auditorium of  
Donna Hobertson, Bond  College of Business, 5 p.m.  
Hall Hoom 104, 4:30 p.m.  . Film: "Comfort and Joy,"  
Montgomery Theatre, 7  
and 9 p.m.  

Compiled from U-Wire reports 
BEYOND CAMPUS 

Harvard profs doubt colleague committed suicide 
CAMBHIDGE, Mass. 
Two days after the Memphis police declared Harvard University profes­sor of biophysics and biochemistry Don Wiley likely to have committed suicide, colleagues of the professor, now missing for 15 days, have· expressed doubt that he took his own life. 
llidde Ploegh, Mallinckrodt profes­sor of immunopathology, said that despite the police department's state­ments Thursday, he is not convinced that Wiley committed suicide. 
"What the police say is one thing, and what happened, I don't think anyone knows," he said. "I think there are no new facts to shed light on lthe situation! and anything people add should be labeled as specula­tion." 
Since Wiley's disappearance. rumors have circulated that he was perhaps distraught about not winning the Nobel Prize in 1996, when two scientists working on similar research received the award. 
Jack L. Strominger, Higgins profes­sor of biochemistry at Harvard who shared the Lasker Award in 1995 and 
WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY 

Officials find 85,000 baby teeth 
ST. LOUIS 

If the tooth fairy had flown into the dark, musty Washington University storage facility in May along with some administrators on a spring cleaning mis­sion, her reaction would have been similar to someone who had just won the enamel lottery, as 85,000 baby teeth were discovered in an ammunition bunker at WU's Tyson Research Center. But had the tooth fairy known what was in store for the teeth, Andrew Johnstone, the biology department business manager, said her response should have been. "Whoa, this is going to cost me." For Johnstone, one of the people who discovered the teeth, it was an eerie portal to the past. The teeth arc the forgotten remains of the world­famous St. Louis Baby Tooth Survey. which took place from 1958 to 1970. At the height of the Cold War, the United States set off over 200 atmospheric nuclear tests at their Nevada Test Site. The Baby Tooth Survey was developed in order to determine the effect of nuclear fallout on humans, specifically children. 
LOCAL WEATHER 

5 Day South Bend Forecast 

AccuWeather"'forecast for daytime conditions and high temperawres 
. r ,, .,,.,,/:..:::......................................;;; I Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday J; 
_( 



Saturday
? ~~~-~ ,.. ~...1... r 
~... ..: ,: ........./ 



Q,Q,QG.QQ {) ~ ~ 
Showers T-storms Ram Fl,;,;ies S~o; Ice Sunny Pt Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Press Graph,cstwr 
Wednesday 
. Lecture: "The Constitution and the Courts: A Question of Legitimacy," Judge James Buckley of 
D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals, Law School Hoom 120/121, 12:10 p.m. 
Thursday 
. 
Concert: Saint Mary's Wind Ensemble and Moreau Chamber Ensemble, Little Theatre, 7::10 p.m. 

. 
Concert: Ilandel's "Messiah," Washington Hall, 8 p.m. 


the Japan Prize in 1999 with Wiley, said that "from everything I know, them is no possibility that he commit­ted suicide." 
The Lasker Award is awarded to clinical scientists annually and is con­sidered "a precursor to receiving the Nobel Prize," said Philippa Marrack, a professor of immunology at tho National Jewish Medical Center and an investigator with Wiley for the lloward llughes Medical Instituto. 
Since 1962, morn than half of thosn who won the Lasknr Award w<mt on to receive the Nobel Prize. most \Vith­in two years of receiving tlw LaskPr. 
Tlw year after Wiley received tlw Lasker Award, the Nobel Prize \\'Pill to scientists Peter Doherty and Holf Zinkerngel who had shared the Lasker Award with Wiley in 1995. 
GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY 

Graduate work stoppage continues 
CIIAMPJ\IGN, Ill. 
Jane Flanagan, junior in LAS at Univorsity of Illinois, sat with papers sprawled around hnr and mad in the English Building's basement lounge Thursday after­noon. She was one of the fow people in the building besides. those working in department and college oflicHs. "I've been hem since 1 p.m., and there's been nobody here," she said at about 2:30 p.m. "l just camn here to read bccausn the union was loud." Tlw GEO work stoppage ended Thursday. FootstPps echoed down the qui1~t halls, as fow instructors held class or office hours in the five buildings targPt<~d in tht• Graduate Employees' Organization work stoppage. A teach i n g assistan t o ffi c P co m p In x in tlw EngI i s h Building's second floor was empty Thursday al'tl'rnoon. The door was open and the lights wore on. GEO lit.-ra­turn was taped near the door. But not overyonn partic­ipated: Jennifer Bertram, a visiting instructor in speech communications, held her three classes as nor­mal, including one in Lincoln llall. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 

The AccuWeathef0 forecast for noon, Monday, Dec. 3. 
e
............ 
C 2001 AccuWeather, Inc. CO!.D WARM STATIONARY 
Prntunt! ® © . D High Low Showers Rain V'A' A.$$oc111lfKJ Prass  D T•slorms  D Flurries  D Snow  D Ice  Sunny  Pt. Cloudy  Cloudy  
Allanta Baltimore Boston Chicago Houston  67 59 51 52 75  44 37 42 50 63  Las Vegas Memphis Milwaukee New York Philadelphia  57 68 49 59 59  38 52 45 42 42  Portland Sacramento St. Louis Tampa W1lming!on  45 55 63 82 59  39 38 52 62 39  


Monday, December 3, 200 I The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




Davie 
continued from page I 
The stage was set for a dramat­

ic showdown between White and 
Davie when the season ended. 
Three weeks ago, Davie said that 
he could not envision resigning his 
position under any circumstances, 
a stance he reiterated last week 
and again after Notre Dame's 24­
18 win against Purdue Saturday 
night. And last week, Davie said 
that the only way he would leave 
was ifNotre Dame fired him. 
But when Davie spoke, there 

was no animosity toward White, 
only a calm understanding of 
White's responsibility and the dif­
ficulty of the decision he had to 
make. 
"I want to do whatever gives this football team the best chance to win next year," he said. "If Notre Dame thinks that they can hire someone who can come in here and do a better job of win­ning games than I can, that's cer­tainly their prerogative to do that. I accept that and ½ish them well." 
"Bob conducted himself with class and distinction through this entire football season," said \Vhite, who did not ask Davie to resign. "This has been a very, very painful year for Bob and his fami­ly." 
Davie praised the quality of Notre Dame's players by saying this year's team was his favorite team and that he wished them well in the future. Sunday, he said he would stand completely behind the new coach and that he would tape all Irish games next year. 
"Don't ever, ever, ever take these players for granted," he said. "Trust me when I tell you these are unique, unique young people in this program and I could not be more proud of the players 
we have brought into this pro­
gram and of the way they repre­
sented themselves." 

The search for a new head 
coach only began after Davie was 
told he was fired, White said. Any 
contacts made before Sunday 
were made without White's 
authorization. And while White 
said he had a list of potential can­
didates for the head coaching job, 
he would not discuss who was on 
the list nor the criteria he would 
use to select the next coach. 
"I do not expect to comment on 
any contacts that we will make 
during the course of the search," 
he said. "I appreciate the appetite 
for news and information about a 
search of this kind, but you don't 
hire good people by negotiating 
through the media." 

All nine Notre Dame assistant coaches are still considered Notre Dame employees, but White said he made it clear to them that the new head coach would be able to select his own staff. 
The decision to fire Davie comes just one year after he signed a five-year contract extension. While White did not go into specifics about the nature or the amount of Davie's contract, he did say that Notre Dame would fulfill all financial obligations. 
Earlier in the week, Davie argued that he had not changed as a coach or a person when Notre Dame gave him a contract a year ago. But on Sunday, White said that giving Davie the contract extension was a mistake. 
"Coming off of the regular sea­son last year, I really felt we were moving in the right direction, and I have to take full responsibility," he said. "It was, in my view, a misread on my part." 
Davie is the first Notre Dame head football coach to be publicly fired. All other former football coaches have resigned. In addi­tion, Davie continues the string of 
Notre Dame coaches to be fired or 
resign by their fifth year ifthey did 
not win a national championship 
in their third year, a streak that 
includes Terry Brennan, Joe 
Kuharich, Gerry Faust and Davie. 
Davie said White first 
approached him with the possibil­
ity that he could be fired after the 
Irish lost 24-3 at Texas A&M to 
drop their record to 0-3, the worst 
start in school history. Initially, 
White said a decision about 
Davie's future would be made 
around the Nov. 10 open date. 
But the next day, White changed his stance and said he would evaluate Davie at the end of the season. Throughout the sea­son, White said the two talked twice a week about "all of the potential scenarios." 
\,Vhite said he did not make the official recommendation to University President Father Edward Malloy, who had the final authority over Davie's future, to fire Davie until 8 a.m. Sunday morning. He met ½ith Davie at 9 
a.m. to inform him of his recom­mendation. When Davie asked why he was being fired, White said it was because the program had lost credibility. 
''I'd have to say I have evaluated the football program almost each and every day since I've been here," White said. "It's so critical to the entire University of Notre Dame, such an important aspect of the University. I can't tell you when it really dawned on me that I thought we were heading in the wrong direction. I don't know that I can pinpoint that for you, but I can tell you that I did not contact Father Malloy to make that rec­ommendation formally until about 8 a.m. this morning." 
Davie then met in with the assistant coaches at 10:30 a.m. and the players at 1:30 p.m. in 
meeting rooms at Notre Dame 
Stadium to inform them of the 
decision. The players met with 
White at 2:15 at the Eck Center, 
where White said the decision 
was a difficult one to make and 
that he had the players' best inter­
ests at heart. 
"Bob Davie has brought good 
students and good people to Notre 
Dame," White said. "He has sup­
ported and had taken an active 
interest in the academic progress 
of the players. He has encouraged 
good citizenship. l am proud to be 
associated with our football team. 
These are expectations that we 
have of all of our coaches ih all of 
our sports." 
Davie had always praised the academic accomplishes of his football teams. Last year, the foot­ball grade point average reached its two highest semester averages last year, and Notre Dame won the AFCA Academic Achievement Award for graduating 100 percent of its players, the first time the Irish reached the 100 percent mark since 1988. 
"However," White said. "We also expect and intend to excel on the field, and there, unfortunately, our results and progress have been disappointing." 
"I've talked to our football team every single day. and it's not the bad things that happen to you that's important, it's how you han­dle them," Davie said. "And I am in no way bitter. No way will I have a chip on my shoulder as I leave Notre Dame. I am not the least bit embarrassed. I'm going to walk out of here lAith my head held high and am really proud of what we have done." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 

BIB DAIIE'S CDACIINI CABEii 
1977  1978  1980  1983  1984  1989  1994  1997  
Volunteer and later graduate assistant at. University of Pittsburgh.  Linebackers coach at University of Arizona. Team earned a Fiesta Bov.rl bid in 1979.  Returned to Pittsburgh as linebackers coach, eaming three consecutive bowl bids.  Defensive Coordinator at Tulane University; suffered two straight losing seasons.  Outside 11 nebac:kers c::o~h at Texas A&M.  lk<:ame Defensive Coordinator at Tex.as A&J\,\; never had a losing season In nine years with the Aqqies.  Became Defensive Coard inator at Notre Dame under head (Oi!!C::h Lou Hcltz.  Earned first head co.a<hing position. Vient 7"6, 9"3r 5"7, 9-3, and s-6 during his five yea rs at Notre Dame  

KATIE McKENNA/The Observnr 


,·; 
·.·.· .· ·.. ' ... 
.·. ·•·:-·:•.":::::i-\\./:.i>.:: :•·· .:­
THE LIST 



24 IDIIS 
12/ 1/01 
8:15 pm 
Notre Oame i,v,ns Davie's final game. 

12/2/01 ·8:00 am 
\1Vhlte formally re<:om mends Davie not be reinstated" Fr..!\'\alloy agrees. 
· 9:00 am 
White informs Davie of the decision. 

· 10:30 am 
Davie informs assistant coaches: ofthe decision. 
1 :30 pm 
D.av,e informs the pl~yers In .a team meeting. 
2:15 pm 
\iVhlte explains the dedsion to players 



3:00 pm 
VVhite holds press 
conference 
announcing 
Davie..s firing . 
. 4:30 pm 
Davie answers: questions in last press conference 
as Notre Dame 
head coach. 
KATIE McKENNA/The Observer 



Columbia 
Sportswear 
,-t , .• --, ,-1r·-;,,.. _~,,,, .... ,,/Jt""!-r-, ' .. -,.f,,·) (1[
/' f , l.· ,.... ... ... _,;...,. l : !j,!,. i J £ \--1..} ;.r J "v ;.,\,.... .-· ~ 1. 1• J I,.. (.. 
. C 
sm7nute~~ {rorn CIUTPDST Ca111pits ~ 
Cold Weather Experts 



Monday, December 3, 2001 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 

Reaction 
continued from page 1 
press conference [on Sunday]," said junior Chris Coleman. 
Kevin White, director of athletics at Notre Dame, said yesterday that no one has yet been contacted regarding the open coaching position, but that he does have a short list of prospects in line for the job. Regardless of who is chosen as Davie's successor, the pressure is on from fans for a coach who will produce less frustrating, dis­appointing and upsetting results in the 2002 season. 
"Next season depends who we get. If it's Jon Gruden [head coach of the Oakland Raiders] or Steve Mariucci [head coach of the San Francisco 49ersJ, I think it could be a lot better next year. If it's not a pro coach, it might take two or three years to turn around the program," said Spack. 

Contact Sheila Egts at egts0236@saintmarys.edu. 


DAVIE BY SEASON 
l 997INDEPENDENCE BO\V.L7-6 
l 998GAIOR BO\VL 9-3 
1999 5-7 20001·0s·nros f.lE'i'fA BO'Wrl, 9.3 2001 5-6 
MADRIGAL DINNER 



Review begins today 
By MYRA McGRIFF Saint Maiy's Editor 
The Department of Education 
will begin a three-day on-site 
review of Saint Mary's Security's 
statistical reporting procedures 
today, when an investigator from 
the department arrives on campus 
to review files and interview 
administrators and community 
members. 
The review is a part of an ongo­ing investigation of a complaint filed by Security on Campus, a national watchdog organization, on behalf of Sarah Alter, a student who alleges she was raped at Saint Mary's in 1998 and the case was improperly handled by Saint Mary's Security. 
The visit was delayed from last week because the investigator, Richard Reinhardt, had personal conflicts. Reinhardt will begin the review today with a meeting with Linda Timm, vice president of Student Affairs, Keith Dennis, vice president of _Finance and Administration and Richard Chlebek, director of Security. Dennis said he hopes the schedule for the following two days will be determined in that meeting. 
"We have a meeting for 9 a.m. 
on how we will proceed. Right 
now there is no set schedule," said 
Dennis. "It ·will develop as we go," 
It is unknmvn when Reinhardt's 
findings will be released. The 
Security on Campus complaint 
claims Saint Mary's is in violation 
of the Jeanne Cleary Act for 
improperly reporting rape statis­
tics during the past decade. If 
Reinhardt finds Saint Mary's is in 
violation of the act on the basis of 
the compliant, the College could 
face up to a $35,000 fine. Saint 
Mary's would orJy be the second 
school the department has fined 
for any offense. 

Her love for sharing news began with the phone. 
It's no wonder she's responsible for medical technology that keeps people talking. 
Bc-111 Kkir~ leads GE's :•· 
Global Nuclear ::Vledicinc/ P.EI husi nes.'>. They produce technology that 
saves millions of lives and connects doctors all over the world. B~th is part of the group ofminority ancl 
women leaden; across GE rcsixmsible for over $30B in ann11al revenues. By drawing on different per~pcctives, backgrounds, and cxperienc:e, GE is the place where anvonc·s chil<lhoocl dreams can come Lme. 
For more information about GE, visit us at Vl"WW.ge.corn. 
Makingdreams become reality. 

Contact Myra McGriff at -We bring good things to life. mcgrO 18 l@saintmarys.edu. 

ATI 


Monday, December 3, 200 I COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Peace talks make progress: U.N.-led talks on Afghanistan's future took an impor­tant step forward Sunday with four Afghan factions poring over a U .N. draft detailing terms for the northern alliance to transfer power in the capital, Kabul. Once an agree­ment is reached, U.N. envoy Lakhdar Brahimi was prepared to travel immediately to Afghanistan to implement any deal. 
Militants spark Kashmir violence: 
Suspected Islamic militants on Sunday gunned down seven Hindus who were on their way to attend a wedding in a remote vil­lage in troubled Kashmir. police said. This violence was the second attack since Friday in Gehlot, 80 miles north of Jammu. the win­ter capital of the Indian-held Jammu-Kashmir state. 


NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Paying organ donors revisited: As the nation's need for organ transplants con­tinues to outstrip supply. the American Medical Association on Sunday grappled with a possible solution once thought taboo: paying dying would-be donors and their families for vital organs. Such financial incentives are ille­gal, banned by Congress in 1984, and as a result people needing organ transplants must rely strictly on volunteers. 
Colorado win incites riots: Police used tear gas. pepper spray and percussion grenades to quiet a rowdy crowd celebrating a University of Colorado football victory. About 500 people had gathered Saturday night to celebrate the school's 39-37 win over the University of Texas. Some in the crowd lit bonfires, tore out street signs and traffic lights and started to overturn cars. Eleven students were arrested and four people suf­fered minor injuries, said police. 

INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Gambling issues multiply: The com­ing legislative session could be a busy one for gambling interests. Gov. Frank O'Bannon wants to boost the casino admission taxes, and a French Lick lawmaker wants to add a riverboat casino in his district. Meanwhile, a majority of the state's riverboat casinos say they can't remain competitive without a boost from lawmakers, who already face a state budget crisis. Edward Feigenbaum, who writes about gambling in his newsletter, Indiana Gaming Insight, said none of the mea­sures are certain to pass. 
Market Watch November 30 
Dow Jones  9,851.56  +22.14  

 Same: 207  Composite Volume: 1,330,557,056  
AMEX:  816.00  +2.61  

NASDAQ: 1,930.58 -2.68 NYSE: 579.27 -0.48 S&P 500: 1,139.45 -0.75 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
FNRON CORP (FNE) -27 7~ -A 10 0 ?6 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) +1 j; .,_0 111 14 24 CIS1 0 SYSTfM'S (C,CO) +} :7 ...0 55 20.44 ORACLE CORP (ORLLJ -1.13 -0.16 14.03 NASDAQ-100 INDE (QQQ) -.15 -0.30 39.65 
ISRAEL 

Associated Press 
HAIFA, Israel A Palestinian suicide 
· bomber killed at least 15 people and wounded dozens more ·when he blew himself up on a bus in northern Israel on Sunday, hours after a dou­ble suicide attack killed 10 people in Jerusalem. 
The bombings were among the deadliest attacks in Israel in years and marked one of the bloodiest phases of a 14­month-old Palestinian uprising against Israeli occupation. They threat­ened to wreck a new U.S. peace mission led by envoy Anthony Zinni. 


President Vasser Arafat's Palestinian Authority, under intense 
U.S. pressure to crack down on radical groups, declared a state of emer­gency and ordered its security forces to arrest militants who had planned and carried out the attacks. 
Leading fierce interna­tional criticism of the attacks, President Bush condemned the suicide bombings before talks with Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon in Washington. 
"This is a moment where the advocates for peace in the Middle East must rise up and fight terror. Chairman Arafat must do everything in his power to find those who murdered innocent Israelis and bring them to justice," he said. 

The militant group Hamas, which opposes Israel's existence, claimed responsibility. It said the attacks were to avenge Israel's Nov. 23 killing of Mahmoud Abu Hanoud, a Hamas military leader who is regarded by Israel as a master bombmaker. 
A senior Palestinian security source said dozens·of militants had been arrested since Saturday night across the 
West Bank and Gaza Strip. 
Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres said Arafat would be tested "by deeds alone" and that the Palestinian leader's previ­ous arrests of militants had proved a "farce.·• 
"This may be the most serious crisis in Israel­Palestinian relations," a Foreign Ministry statement quoted Peres as saying. 
The Israeli army responded to the bombings by tightening its blockade of the \Vest Bank and encircling Palestinian cities it had not already surrounded because of "numerous warnings of future attacks." 
FBI examines anthrax researchers 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The F.B.I. has expanded its investi­gation of the deadly anthrax attacks to include the laboratories of the government and its contractors as a possible source of the anthrax itself or the knowledge to make it, scien­tists and law enforcement officials say. 
\\'hile theories about the attacker have focusi•d r:·,lir,h , d., ;•sdc loners and foreign sta t\::; r i • ·,·ur­is Ls, l,L,' enforcement uli'it:iats a.re now also examining the possibility that the criminal may be a knowl­edgeable insider. 

Asked if the Federal Bureau of Investigation was investigating American military and nonmilitary laboratories that have had the pow­dery anthrax strain used in the attacks and individuals associated with such centers, a law enforce­ment official replied, "Certainly." The official said, "\Ve are aggres­sively investigating every possihl" lead and every possible ;1 ve l · , " adding that it was logical. 
FPi\ details or the insider imp:,-, ­gation are known. Rut federal agents are already interrogating people in the military establishment that replaced the old program for making biological weapons. The facilities for that effort, in western Maryland, are major repositories of the Ames strain of anthrax, the particularly virulent form that federal officials have identified as the type used in the attacks that killed five people. 
Col. Arthur M. Friedlander, the se-nior rrs<'arr.h sricntist at thP. / nnv's b'll<L•f"'1se hboratorv at Foi·t r'•ctrkk, i\ld.•.-..:1.id in an intri·.,inw on l .';ida,:, tL,at oBidais :h1•n· ,\-,r,· c:iop­erating with federal invpstigators. 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Monday, December 3, 2001 
Community protests for peace 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News Editor 
Peter Smith has little trouble reconciling his veteran status with his pacifist philosophies. 
He served a four-year stint in the U.S. Navy in the 1960s and even during the days of the Vietnam era believed that peace was a goal to be reached. And a means to reach the goal. 
"My wife and I have resisted every war since Vietnam," said Smith, of South Bend. 
The conflict in Afghanistan has been no different for Smith and wife Ellyn Stecker. 
On Sunday the couple joined more than 100 other anti-war activists, many of them Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents, at a peace march and rally in downtown South Bend. 
"We know that we're stand­ing for what's right, and today is our day to celebrate that," Smith said before the march on the sunny, SO-degree after­noon. 
The event was sponsored by the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Peace Coalition and the Michiana Peace and Justice Coalition, a local activist group. South Bend's Kern Road Mennonite Church Peace and Justice Committee also helped organize the protest. 
March participants set off from St. Joseph's Church at Hill Street and LaSalle Avenue, walking two by two on sidewalks along downtown thoroughfares. They chanted anti-war epithets ("One-two­
• 
three-four, stop the killing and the war;" "Five-six-seven­eight, stop the killing and the hate.") And their signs ran the gamut of pacifist and "blame America" attitudes: "Love your enemies;" "More food, not bombs;" Capitalism equals 
terrorism;" and "Get rid of military tribunals," among others. 
Ironically, the march drew parallels to the armed ser­vices, as protestors sang sound-offs in chorus like mili­tary units being drilled. 
The 45-minute march led activists over the LaSalle Street bridge and south on Michigan Street past the Century Center, the city's downtown covention hall. It proceeded west on Washington Street and north on Main Street to U.S. Rep. Tim Roemer's district head­quarters. 
On the front windows of the Democratic 3rd District con­gressman's office, protestors taped three pages of demands to end attacks in the Middle East. One page threatened weekly protests downtown until U.S. bombing of Afghanistan ceases. 
Public reaction to the march was largely positive. Sunday afternoon traffic whizzing past protestors on busy downtown arteries honked horns and waved. 
"To have people driving by and beeping their horns ... to have more than 100 people who I don't even know turn out to support this cause, it's just so affirming," said Notre Dame senior and Peace Coalition member Rachel Soltis, "and that's why it was so important to come out today and say that innocent people are dying, just as they did Sept. 11." 
Smith said, "Our collective experience tells us that wars are easy to start but hard to stop. Bombing, especially of innocent civilians, is the fertil­izer from which new terrorists come." 
Protestors acknowleged that many Americans view a paci­fist response to fighting ter­rorism as unpopular and even unpatriotic. But they called for public indictment of suspected terrorists in lieu of a U.S. mili­tary response. 

"There are a lot of people opposed to non•violence," Notre Dame senior Jemar Tisby said at a rally following the march. "Even priests, I tell them there might be another way to respond to this situa­tion, and they look at me like I've said a four-letter word in church." 
Long before the Afghan con­f1ict, the South Bend commu• nity struggled with other social justice issues, Peter Walshe, a Notre Dame govern­ment professor, said prior to the rally. 
In the past, apartheid in South Africa and Contras in Nicaragua drew in the city, Walshe said. 
"It's good to be a part of the peace community in Michiana," Walshe said. 
In Michiana, and throughout the United States, Americans should look to peaceful means of conflict resolution "before the cycle of violence over­
whelms  us all," according to  
Smith.  For  America  that  
means  looking  at  its  own  

might in a different light, the veteran said. 
"Let's pull back from being a military superpower," he said. "Let's become a humanitarian superpower." 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley. l@nd.edu 

Liverpool mourns loss of Harrison 
Associated Press 

LIVERPOOL 
Prayers of remembrance were said for George Harrison in his home city Sunday -in church­es, cathedrals and at makeshift street-corner shrines. Three days after 58-year-old Harrison died from cancer in California, Canon Michael Wolfe offered a prayer of thanksgiving for "the Liverpool Beatle, George Harrison" at the city's Anglican cathedral. 
Wolfe told about 200 parish­ioners in the vast and echoing cathedral that Harrison would be remembered "for his contri­bution over the years to song and music, and for his work for charity." 
As Liverpool launched into the Christmas holiday season Sunday with a parade, many in the city paused quietly to remember the local son who bore his fame and his illness with equal forbearance. 
"George will be remembered for being dignified about being a member of The Beatles," said 21-year-old James Elliker, stop• ping outside the gates of Strawberry Field, the Salvation Army children's home immortal• ized in a Beatles song. "He'll be remembered as the nice one." 
Behind him a sign pinned to the red wrought-iron gates echoed Harrison's final message tu his fans: "Low one another." 
World Youth Day Toronto 2002 
. 
Join agroup of 40-50 people from ND as we travel to Toronto to meet with the Pope and hundreds of thousands of young people for aweek of praise, education, fun, and worship. 
We will travel by bus and stay in very simple accommodations (probably on agym floor!). The dates for WYD are July 22-28, 2002. Participants will be responsible for travel to and from ND in July. After that, estimated total cost is up to $300 per person. 
Pick up an application form at the Coleman-Morse Center (1st floor, retreats offices), and turn it in by Friday, Dec. 7. For more information, contact Fr. Bill Wack, CSC at 1-3087, or wack.2@nd.edu 
No one told you the hardest part of being an engineer would be finding your first job. Of course, its still possible to get the high-tech work you want by joining the U.S. Air Force. You can leverage your degree immediately and get hands-on experience with some of the most sophisticated technology on earth. To find out how to get your career off the ground, call 1-800-423-USAF or visit our Web site at airforce.com. 
\.J
'·' 
U.S. AHi FORCB 
Monday, December 3, 2001 The Obsernr . NEWS page 7 
White addresses Davie's dismissal 

Special to the Observer 
Following is a statement from Kevin White, director of athlet­ics at the University of Notre Dame, concerning the head coaching position of the Notre Dame football team: 
"I have informed Bob Davie today that he will not be retain­ing his head football coaching position with Notre Dame. 
"After talking to Bob, I also have spoken with our football team and assistant coaches. Our assistant coaches under­stand that a new head coach will select his own staff. But I've told them that they will continue as Notre Dame employees at least until that time. I have indicated to our players and just met with our players, that their welfare dur­ing this transition is our num­ber one concern and that our sole focus in the coming search is to bring them a coach who will give them the best possible chance to be successful at Notre Dame, on and off the field. 
"This is difficult for everyone involved, but especially difficult for Bob and his family, as well as for the football staff and their respective families. not to men­tion the players and their fami­lies. 
It is never a pleasant duty to part company. It is no secret to anyone that high expectations come with the job of head foot­ba11 coach at Notre Dame. Those expectations are the product not only of our history and tradition and national fol­lowing, but also of our institu­tion-wide commitment to excel­lence in everything that we do. 
I know there are those who believe it is no longer possible for us to contend for national championships on the field while continuing to win gradua­tion-rate honors, but I don't accept that premise, nor does anyone involved with athletics at Notre Dame. 
Bob Davie has brought good students and good people to Notre Dame, he has supported and taken an active interest in the academic progress of his players, he has encouraged good citizenship. I am proud to be associated with our football team. These are expectations we have of all our coaches in all sports. However, we also expect and intend to excel on the field, and there, unfortunately, our results and progress have been disappointing. 
A year ago at this time, I believed that we had turned the corner under Bob and that we were prepared to reclaim our traditional standing among the nation's elite college football programs. Today I no longer 

Holidny Custorns: How Do You Choose? 
P/4a.1e/oi11 
11:1 on 
:J),,u•mber 5, 200 I @ 5:30pm in t/4e c_<:::c 
I>inner Provid1.:d RSVP: MSPS 631-6841 


Ramadan 

•' t 
I 

can say that. 
The search for a new head coach will begin immediate­ly. I made a commitment to Bob that I would not contact anyone about this job until he had first heard from me concerning his status, and I have honored that commit­ment. I've made no contacts with potential candidates or t.heir employers before now .and nor has anyone authorized by me made any attempt to contact potential candidates. 
I don't expect to comment on the contacts that we do make during the search. I appreciate the appetite for news and information about a search of this kind, but you don't hire good people by negotiating through the media. We all know that the rumor mill has been in oper­ation for many weeks now. and we know that today's announcement will kick it into overdrive. 
Let me provide one cau­tion about the rumors and 'informed sources' that are bound to surface in the days ahead. As soon as there's something to report, you'll hear it from me. However, until you hear it from me, anything you might hear will be nothing more than specu­lation. 

Anthrax remains a national threat 
riously died of the disease last whether she could have come in other towns. Operations.
Associated Press 
month, officials said Sunday. contact with tainted mail. The trace amounts most likely "This finding is not a complete Ottilie Lundgren, of Oxford, The spores were found on were left on the machines when surprise," Steele said. 
IIARTFORD 

was the fifth person in the nation sorting machines during tests at a letter sent to Seymour, near "The public should not be pan­
Trace amounts of anthrax 
to die since the anthrax scare the Southern Connecticut Oxford, passed through the facil­icked by trace elements occur­were found at a postal facility b,·gan in October. Th<' source of Processing & Distribution Center ity on Oct. 11, said Jon Steele, ring nearly 60 days ago." 
that sorts mail for the town 
her exposure has baffled offi­in Wallingford. The center vice president of the Postal The tainted Connecticutwhere a 94-year woman myste­cials, who arc investigating processes mail for Oxford and Service's Northeast Area machines will be decontaminat­
MOT 

O'l') /·, / _17+·
t , ., ~ '/ L
I ••,.. 
-------.· 0 

Sn1i11ute~~ {ro1n CUTPDST Campus ~ 
Cold Weather Experts 
Call 259..1000 for moredetails 
Did you know... Half ofall HIV infections are young Americans under the age of25 
Every minute, 5 young people are infected with HIV Ten million people ages 15-24 are lhing with HIV/AIDS AV\., estt~attd :i.so,ooo kjOW.Vl-9 A""-tri.eaV\6 art uiAAwart that thtkj are ~V\.,ftettd w~tn t-trv By 2020, AIDS will reduce the workforce in 15 countries by 24 million people 
"Pl.ACING A FACE TO HIV/AIDS" 


featuring 
Debra Stanley 
and 

Bill Hatfield 
AIDS Ministries 
followed by a discussion panel 
Tuesday, pee. 4, 6:30pm Walsh Basement 
Dinner will be served 
Sponsored by Student Government, AIDS Awareness Club, and Minority Pre-med Socrty 
ed, a process that could take sev­eral days, Steele said. The center will remain open for business. he said. 
The facility was tested on four separate occasions and 389 sam­ples were taken. said Steele. Five samples in the latest round of testing revealed the anthrax, he said. 
"This is a very small about of anthrax," said Dr. Joxel Garcia. the state's commissioner of pub­lic health. 




O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 8 Monday, December 3, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Pat Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadter SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CoNTR0ll.ER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0 .............. 631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF ........................................ 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-53l.3 NEWS........................................ : ................. 631-5323 
observer.obsnews.l@nd.edu 

VJE\VPOJNT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint.l@nd.edu SP0RTS........................................................631-4543 observer .sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4 540 observer.scene.l@nd.edu SAJNr MAR.r's.............................................631-4324 
observer .smc. l@nd.edu PH0T0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates of campus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from rhe Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/mwic for 

minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 

advertise for policies 
online features for spe­

and rares ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 

archives to search for 
about The Observer 

articles published after 
to meet the editors and 

August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoricy of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefMike Connolly. 
Wishing Davie well 
Irish head football coach Bob Davie failed in his com­class. In his final press conference. Davie expressed raw mitment to consistently lead his team to national champi­emotion for his family, the University administrators who onship contention. Notre Dame students, alumni and fans hired him, the team he helped build and the Notre Dame should celebrate the hope that a new coach will deliver community as a whole. He made none of the excuses that more successful seasons. he formerly used to explain his teams' failures. He did not 
But, in applauding the University's deci­complain, he did not whine, he simply sion, those who are happy to see Davie leave OJhe focused on his job.
userver

should give the former head coach the same He admitted he was disappointed. And it respect and class that he has shown in his showed. position this season. He claimed he wasn't bitter. And it
Editorial
While Davie may have failed on the foot­ball field, his conduct off the field should earn him the respect of the Notre Dame community as he leaves his position. 
Throughout a dismal 5-6 season, Davie placed the blame fully on himself, trying to deflect criticism off his players. 
Even in the wake of his firing, Davie showed nothing but 

200I: A Drunk Odyssey 
A week ago today was my 21st birthday (yes, Notre Dame's most cynical female is growing up). I had a great time -a little too good of a time -and, as so many events in life tend to leave me, the whole experi­
Amy Schill 
ence left me dazed (literally) and amused. So, I 
Dazed and
would now like to 
Amused
relate to you a little story I like to call "2001: A Drunk Odyssey." 
As successful as the big day was, it started out rather inauspiciously. At the stroke of midnight, I dragged a couple of friends to Meijer, because, like any huge dork, I wanted to have my first legal drink immediately. Now since in my past drinking exploits the law was always the last thing on my mind, I was a little unaware on the many restrictions on purchasing alcohol in this terrible, terrible state. 
After selecting my favorite bever­ages and beginning the self check­out, I was told by a less-than-friendly store employee that I couldn't buy alcohol on a Sunday. I cleverly point­ed to my watch and informed her that it was now in fact Monday, to which she responded, "You can't buy till 7 a.m. you huge Notre Dame tool." 
We refused to give up. John Litle, my friend and fellow communist, I mean columnist. was even more determined to get me more liquored up than I was. Cursing Meijer all the way, he drove us to a 24-hour · restaurant so I could order a beer. I asked the waiter if he had my favorite beer, and the dude made a point to go check and then tell me, "Yes, but you can't have it. It's after hours you huge Notre Dame tool." 
Resigned to the fact that it was eas­ier to get alcohol during Prohibition than on an early Monday morning, 

we headed back to my dorm. I would take her to a bar on Monday night so 
like to ask the state of Indiana and other states with similar laws, a question. Why have you secularized society so much, only to keep an antiquated law that only serves to screw me over? We support bombing Afghanistan on a Sunday, but 
Bah. 
As I was giving my 

me. My main topics of my dorm security conversation at this guard, she suggest­point were the prob­ed we try lems with both liber­Michigan. My tarianism and twilight zone socialism and how experience con­awesome l think tinued as we Prince is. Yes, I realized that ~-was finally living all gas sta­~, out my fantasy 
WANT' Lt o..u.cP... 
r. WAfJT ,_ 
~I GL\Of\,•.
tions in Michigan at that time are either closed or do not sell beer. Let me repeat myself: the gas station did not sell beer. I now declare a tie between Indiana and Michigan as the most toolish state ever. I can't tell you how close we were to just going to Canada. 
Rejected by the entire bi-state area. I went through the vast majority of my birthday with­out a drop of alcohol in my system. But I made up for it that night. 
Oh boy did I make up for it. 
A bunch of my friends and I went to Friday's because, as one friend told our waiter, "\Ve don't want to 

showed. 
As emotional and defensive as Davie became this season, he remained respectful of a commu­nity that often vocally opposed him. 
Give Davie that same respect. 
Aµplaud Notre Dame's opportunity to become a more talented football program. 
But at the same time, wish Davie well. 
she can be hit on by townies." The waiter, was, of course, a townie him­self. 
Let's see what happened next. Oh that's right, I got drunk. I got very drunk. Then I went to a shady bar in 
Michigan and got drunk some more. 
·~  of being just like  
~·  Jack Kerouac  
-, '  but without the  

',t, , ·writing part. Unfortunately, "2001: A Drunk Odyssey" quickly deterio­rated into 
"2001: A Vomiting Odyssey." 
Lovely. 
Anyway, even including the sequel to our 
adventure, I still had an incredible birthday. To all of 

you who were there, thanks for a great night. We'll have to do it 
Amy Schill is a junior English major. Iler column appears every other Monday. She can be reached at aschill@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Myra McGriff Jason McFarley · Kevin Suhanic 
Sports 
Katie McVoy 
Viewpoint 
Kurt Bogaard 
Scene 
C. Spencer Beggs 
Graphics 
Kristin Krouse 
Katie McKenna 
Production 
Jeff Baltruzak 
Lab Tech 
Peter Hichardson 
POLL QUESTION 
Who do you want to be the new head football coach? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"School days, I believe, are the unhappiest in the whole span ofhuman existence. They are full ofdull, unintelligible tasks. new and unpleasant ordinances. brutal violations of common sense and common decency . ., 
H.L. Mencken writer 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

Monday, December 3, 200 I page 9 
How can I study when people are dying? 
In a couple weeks, I will leave Notre Dame and I might not return. 
Academia is a rat race. The system constantly pushes you to work harder· and to discard all your non-academic 
goals. In graduate school, students see themselves as future professors and researchers. All of the graduate stu­dents I know are unable or unwilling to be dedicated 


activists. Students who believe there Aaron Kreider is something more 
to life than acade­
Think,.

mia are unlikely to make it through Question, graduate school. Resist 
In graduate school, students are expected to present at conferences and publish a couple papers in jour­nals. If you follow these rules. you might get a faculty position. Then you must publish additional papers to get tenure. By the time you achieve tenure, you are unlikely to rebel against the system. 
My primary problem with academia is the required neutrality. In sociology, we study social problems like poverty. racism, sexism and heterosexism. However, the dominant methodology requires that we remain neutral. For instance, we can identify causes of poverty but we are not expected to work to end its causes. Social scientists descend on communities that are suf­fering, collect data, publish an acade­mic paper and then leave to find another community. 
Another problem is that we analyze these issues in journal articles that will only be read by other academics. We are free to write for the public, but there is little academic reward for doing so. 
Intellectuals must be a part of soci­ety, not separate from it. Intellectuals must either come from the group that they are studying, or submerge them-· selves into it for a long-term commit­ment. Only then will they avoid the mistake of separating the analysis of a problem from its solution. For instance. poor people would never be content just to learn why they are poor. Instead, they would want to com­bine their analysis with action that would alleviate their suffering. 
Intellectual values thus need to be infused into non-academic groups, like the poor. and in return, their values infused into academia. I also believe that sometimes action is more impor~ tant than analysis. If a billion people on this planet are living on a dollar a day, ending global poverty is more compelling than analyzing it. Many of the solutions to our social problems are well known and simple. The more complex solutions will only be found as part of a liberation process that will transform our society. Under these conditions and particularly from the viewpoint of the oppressed, analysis is only useful when it contributes to the global movement for liberation. 
Over the past several years, I have had trouble getting myself to study. I do not think I am inherently lazy, because I tend to engage in projects. Instead of studying, I could spend five hours writing an Observer column, a day reading two books about the Grenada Revolution, write a pamphlet, or do research on worker's rights. If I worked harder, I might manage doing I am not necessarily recommending both my studies and decent level of that you should drop out. I stayed at activism. However, I am no longer Notre Dame for four years because I motivated enough to read journal arti­was learning a lot. I fear that as I leave cles and write papers based on them. the University, I will lose my drive to 

I have spent a couple thousand learn. Our society favors immediate hours doing activism at Notre ---~~ gratification over learning. We 
Dame in the past four years, and I became a sociologist to study student activism. Yet there is no recogni­tion for my activism in my department, nor would there be any at other universities. 
Another dif­ficulty for Notre Dame activists is that there are so few of us and so many issues that need our help. Therefore, Notre Dame activists are overwhelmed and often burn out. The support struc­ture for activists is weak, because our University has a small student political left and limited counter-culture. 

So I am moving to west ---------student in sociology and a revolu-Philadelphia to live with activist tionary. He can be contacted at krei­friends. I plan to create a national der.1@nd.edu. His column appears clearinghouse website for student every other Monday. activists, perhaps write a book (on stu­The views expressed in this column dent activism) and join several activist are those of the author and not neces­groups. sarily those of The Observer. 
prefer television, food, drugs, sex, music and video games to reading 
a book. In addition, many activists are unfortunately too 
busy fighting a 
campaign to step back and do intellectual 
work that would help them and oth­ers in a similar situation. I hope to bal­ance my

• r ,.. activism and :\..(, ......:~,\ ,, . •.} intellectual 
, y "\ ,--"· ;. <._.V.r-' : ,;, work. · ~· . :, · • ·· 4 -,;"-> ' Unfortunately I 
...,_,,.,_ ~,,"'; 6~~ . ,,· .. .... " . 
' .t ..,_ r . do not see any­....,..-...,;;::1111 one at Notre· Dame who does this. So I am moving to ..., , Philadelphia to \\. ,.. ' . ,.. become a better socio}­
,, .,, . t
'-..._~; J) •"' 
ogrs . 

-Aaron Kreider is a graduate 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Defending educational standards for ·athletes 
Considering athletic and academic well-being 
This letter is in reply to Vinnie Zuccaro's November 30th letter, "Good grades do not equal good foot­ball." Zuccaro's own sentiments were expressed most clearly in the state­ment, "Personally, I don't care if our football recruits aren't smart enough to tie their own shoes before the game as long as they can win." 
This sentiment is morally reprehen­sible. I believe this opinion is sympto­matic of a deeper problem here at Notre Dame. Here, student-athletes are held in high regard -often to the point of worship. But this worship is a poisoned gift. 
In praising our student-athletes to such an extent we dehumanize them. When they do well. we praise them as excellent well-oiled machines. When they do poorly we condemn them as worthless buffoons. What we. forget in both cases is that they are human beings. 
To say it doesn't matter how smart or dumb our student-athletes are as long as they win does them violence as human beings, a violence that cannot go unremarked upon. This is why the above sentiment is morally reprehen­sible and the frequency with which such dehumanization (both in praise 
and in condemnation) occurs at Notre 
Dame is a problem here in our com­
munity. 
I have had the pleasure to teach many of our student-athletes. Take it from someone who knows: football players (and basketball players and ... ) are not dumb. Their education mat­ters. We are morally obliged to devel­op their intellectual abilities, as well as their athletic abilities. If we did not do so, we would do violence to them as people. 
Because student-athletes are human beings with many facets to their lives outside of sports, their academic per­formance does matter. This is why I believe Notre Dame, as a Catholic institution, should take the academic well-being of the football players into consideration when evaluating Bob Davie as a coach. I'm not saying that this should be the only concern, but it definitely should be on the board. 
Jacob Heidenreich graduate student, mathematics and philosophy Nov.30,2001 

Academics should be a 
cause ofpride 
Vinnie Zuccaro's contention that Bob Davie should be fired is on target, but his sug­gestion that Notre Dame football suffers because of stringent academic requirements is absurd. It is exactly because of these academic requirements that there is still rea­son to support Notre Dame football, at some level, even during lean seasons like this one. I agree that Davie's flailing attempts to justify his Notre Dame existence are embarrassing both to him and those who hired him. But what I cannot handle is the allegation that Notre Dame should follow the path they started down when they hired Bob Davie and continue to compromise the pride of Notre Dame football by lowering admissions standards. 
There is no reason to think that Notre Dame's admissions standards prohibit the Irish from being a top team every year. The roster_ is teeming with prep All-Americans and state players of the year. Tony Fisher was the USA Today Player of the Year in Ohio. Carlos Pierre-Antoine, a reserve linebacker and special teams player, was a Parade Prep All-American. When the accolades for Notre Dame's recruits go beyond the first names on the depth chart, it's hard to make the academic rigor argument hold water. Nebraska and Miami are recruiting the same players, so at least those two national powerhouses think our players have the potential to play for a top program. 
The real issue is that even with this glut of talented athletes and access to the best equipment and facilities, Bob Davie doesn't get the job done. It is not Notre Dame's admissions standards or schedule, just his failure to prepare the team to play up to their potential. Our players did the school work expected of them in high school and achieved at a level that earned them admission to our University; it is a disservice to them to give them a leader that is not also committed to achieving at a high level. I envision a post-Bob Davie era in which "80 Notre Dame players" who do "know their calculus" continue to play hard every Saturday under a competent coach. 
Katie McFarland 
semor Breen-Phillips Hall Nov. 30, 2001 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 10 Monday, December 3, 2001 
From Paris to good times around the Bend 
This is what I can't wait to come back to: a five minute walk to class, three hour meals at the dining hall just to waste time, the glow of the Dome through the trees on the walk back from D6, sitting on the chapel floor in pajamas at Sunday night Mass, stumbling home after a night out only to stay up chatting with the security guard, late night delirium at The Observer, the Basilica's bells, the ever-smiling Grab-n-Go ladies, having my best friends a bunk or a room away and even Turtle Creek (maybe). 
This is what I don't want to leave: Paris. 
It's a dilemma; though, not one that merits sympathy. When my family or friends ask if I'm ready to come home, I always say "yes." And in some ways it's true. I do miss home, in both sense of the word -good ol' Flushing, Mich., and Ind., 46556. 
I miss taking for granted the fact that everyone speaks English. I miss the comfort zone of people who understand my stupid jokes and my grumpy moods. I miss going to a Catholic school. I might even miss snow. 
At Thanksgiving last weekend, my quint­mates and I (reunited in London for the feast) sat around worrying about the move back to Notre Dame. All semester we've been building up our return, our reunion. We'll be back in Walsh, getting in trouble for violating quiet hours and laughing at the same stupid movies and the world will be right again. But it might not be as smooth a transition as we hope. 
I 
For one thing, it won't be the same Notre Dame we left. Friends will be abroad second semester that we won't see until senior year. One­fourth of the faces we pass on the quad will be freshmen we don't know. A football season will have come and gone, a semester of cam­pus news and gossip will be foreign and every building will look a little 
I 
different than the way we remember leaving it. At the same time, we've changed as well. New friends, a photo album full of travels and stories of living in another country. Big cities have 
toughened us a little; the confusion of another language has helped us laugh at ourselves. We feel more confident that we can strike it out on our own and yet we feel overwhelmed at how huge the world really is. 
l 
Timing is everything. So, I keep thinking that once January rolls around and I board the plane home. it will feel right. I needed a break I from life in South Bend, a breather to help me appreciate what I have there. Now I feel ready to get back. I think coming home will feel real and after living in this dream 
world for four months, something raw and gritty will probably do me
' good. As my friends here get sentimental about leaving, we make the grand promises that everyone does when they part, 'Tm coming to see you so many times next semester you'II get sick of me -Philly is only, what, 12 hours away?" But deep down I know it might not happen, at least not as much as I'd hope. That's the reality of it -I'll go back, and Notre Dame will be home again and I won't be able to imagine how I ever left. I read somewhere that every story is about coming to a new place or leaving a familiar one. Maybe that's what drives us to write when we're young -it seems like we're always slipping into a new story. I can't really sit around and miss Paris, especially while I'm still here, because there's something new just around the corner. This semester had its time and place and so will the next. Yesterday, my friends and I went to Disneyland Paris, which on its own, probably says I'm hungry for American culture. And as we rode "It's a Small World" for the fourth time in a row (because, who else goes to Disney when it's cold, raining and December?). I started think­ing that the last time I'd laughed at all the happy dancing puppets, I'd been in Florida with my roommates last fall break. While I may not have grown up at all (the Haunted House ride still makes nre jump), I'm now an ocean away, speaking another language with friends I hadn't known existed a year ago. I couldn't wax philo­sophical for too long, considering I was surrounded by Technicolor trees and talking animals. But it made me realize how much can charige in a year. Maybe looking back to see how much we've changed is the only constant we can count on. In any case, it was a relief to know Paris loves cheezy Americana as much as I do. Makes it feel a little more like home. 


The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Laura Kelly is a junior English and French major. She can be reached at lkelly@nd.edu. French Connection appeqrs Mondays in Scene. 

The Not-So-Royal Shakespi 
By MATI KILLEN Scene Writer 
This week, the Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Company brings Shakespeare's classic work "The Tragedy of Othello,.the Moor of Venice" to Notre Dame's Hesburgh Center for International Studies. True to its form, this highly popular student-run company promis­es another solid performance of one of The Bard's many great tales. 
The play is the story of love, trust, intrigue and jealousy. Iago, played by sophomore Tom Conner, an ensign to the Moorish gen­eral Othello, played by sophomore Adel Hanash, plots against his superior in a hate­ful attempt at vengeance. He enlists the help of Roderigo, played by sophomore Mike Federico, a former suitor ofDesdemona. 
Iago also plans to wreak vengeance on Cassio, played by junior Jeff Eyerman, a fel­low member of the army who was promoted to a post Iago desired. Iago tells Roderigo that Desdemona loves Cassio and encourages Roderigo to incite Cassio into violence to dis­credit him in front of the general so that Roderigo might win Desdemona's heart vyith­out competition. 
After Cassio attacks Roderigo in a drunken rage, Othello dismisses Cassio from his ser­vice. Desperate to get reinstated, Cassio (fol­lowing the "honest" advice of Iago) begs Othello's wife Desdemona, played by senior Katy Wilcox, to plead his case to her hus­band. When interrupted by Iago and Othello, Cassio hastily leaves. 
Iago uses this as an opportunity to place the thoughts and image of infidelity into Othello's head. As Othello's jealousy grows, he demands that Iago off er proof of what he is accusing. Iago shows Othello special han­kerceif that he gave Desdemona before they were married in the hands of Cassio. Iago secretly got the hankercheif from Emilia, played by senior Victoria Bradford, Desdemona's sharp-tongued attendant and Iago's wife. 

Ultimately, Othello becomes convinced of Desdemona's infidelity and murders her. The tragedy reaches its climax as the truth of Iago's deception is revealed, causing the Moor to tragically take his own life. 
While historically much has been made of the role of race in Othello, director Matt Holmes, a second-year law student, was drawn to the play for other reasons. 
"I don't think it's primarily about race," Holmes said, "but about trust and what hap­pens when trust is corrupted." 
"This play is very timeless," Holmes said. "The race element does play a role, but more important is the distinction between the real­ity and the perception of friendship in the show." 
Holmes feels that the role of trust is the larger theme of Shakespeare's play that haves more relevance in today's world than the issue of race does. 
Because of these themes, Holmes sees this play as quite relevant today. 
"This is easily the most modern play of Shakespeare," Holmes said. "The issue of trust is one of Shakespeare's most timeless themes." 
Some of this modern feel is reflected in the production. While the set is minimal. modern elements are prominently used. The actors themselves don contemporary clothing, as well. 
Along with the use of modern dress,· minor 
elements have been altered from the original text. To shorten the running length, some dia­logue and a few scenes were excised from the script, while cer­tain minor char­acters were com­bined to reduce the number of cast members, which totaled over two dozen, to 12. 
Despite these changes, Shakespeare's work has been lelt intact. Unlike recent on-screen debacles like "O," this prod uc­tion promises to stay true to form. 
"It's set in the present day, but the language is still there," Holmes said. "To attempt to [make Shakespeare] 'better' is a mis­take" 
\Vith such min-



O
THE 
BSERVER 


Monday, December 3, 2001 
page 11 


,eare Company returns 'Othello' to the Notre Dame stage 

C. SPENCER BEGGS/The Observer· 
imalist design values, the burden is even heavier on the cast to play their roles effectively. 
"These actors are really excited about being in the show and are doing a great job," Holmes said. "Casting the show was difficult because I had such a surplus of talent. Ultimately, I got the twelve best actors cast in the show." . "The cast.as a whole -as an ensemble -does a great Job of creatmg a real world. Not only the major relation­ships, but the minor ones as well. The detail everyone puts into their characters is fantastic," Holmes said. 
Holmes' respect and appreciation for the cast is mutual. 
"It's been nice because he's really fluid with the direc­tion," Bradford said. "[Holmes] has certain things he wants, but he gives us a lot of room and freedom. He spent a lot ohime developing [the show] and he has a vision." 
Holmes is a veteran of another Othello production five years ago. While he played Iago then, he has always want­ed to return to the material and direct the play. 
The play's leading roles belong to Hanash and Conner. Though both have little Shakespeare experience, they both have significant backgrounds in acting. 
"Adel and Tom are friends in real life, which gives them a kind of chemistry on stage which is great," Holmes said. Holmes describes his directing style as laid back, making sure that the experience is enjoyable for the whole cast. 
"We have fun with it," Holmes said. "Plays are 
plays, not work." 
Despite ihe enjoyable elements for the cast, 
much is obviously expected from them. Stripped of 
elaborate costumes or gaudy set designs, even 
more pressure is placed on the cast to effectively 
tackle Shakespeare's inherently daunting dia­
logue. While this is a risky gamble, it pasy off big 
for this production of Othello. 
While high quality has always been associated 
with the Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Company, this 
production just might set the bar even higher. This 
talented cast manages to deliver fantastic perfor­
mances and an all-around excellent experience. 
Hanash's portrayal of Othello is fantastic. His 
commanding voice and intimidating stage pres­
ence embody the role, bringing to life the great 
Moor of Venice. He hits all his notes, with some of 
his best work coming during his monologue before 
slaying Desdemona. There Hanash shows a sub­
tlety that is downright impressive. 
Conner's representation of Iago is true to the text. Seemingly relishing in his vole as one of Shakespeare's most diabolical villains, Conner convincingly plays a difficult character, switching between the many of Iago's lies with an ease and confidence that brings out some great aspects of the role. 
Despite the strength of the major characters, the quality of the supporting roles cannot be over­looked. The detail the rest of the cast has put into the show shines through without overshadowing the main story. The cast gives the sense that each of these characters could stand alone as the main focus of their own plays. 
The lack of elaborate sets and costumes only serves to underscore the already solid cast. The beauty of the performance can be appreciated in full without distraction. As such, the themes of jealousy and trust weave gracefully through the intricate story, highlighting the entire play with sophistication. . 
The relatively small venue brings the audience even closer to the story. The action is very close to the audience, which delivers a personal and emo­tional experience. This play is not removed from the audience. Rather, the venue is able to bring an element to the play that might have been lost at a larger theater. 
Even for those averse to The Bard and his prose, "Othello" can still be enjoyed by appreciat­ed the raw emotion and expression with which the actors fill the stage. Shakespeare's sometimes daunting dialogue is too much for some audience members, but just experiencing the production is worth the price of admission alone. 
Much is expected from "Othello," and much is delivered. "Othello" is a superior production from a company that already brings the expectation of quality theatre. This version of Shakespeare is as timeless as it is compelling. 
"Othello" runs Wednesday through Saturday at 
7:30 
p.m. in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. General admission is $7 and $5 for students. Tickets are available at the door or at the Lafortune Box Office. Due to space limi­tations, ticket holders not in the auditorium at 

7:30 
p.m. may have their tickets voided and standby seating will be made available. To order tickets call the LaFortune Box Office at (219) 631­8128. 


Contact Matt Killen at killen. l@nd.edu. 


Katy Wilcox, as Desdemona, sleeps while Othello, deceived by Iago, plots her murder. 

Monday, December 3, 2001

page 12 The Observer . SPORTS 
FOOTBALL 
Assistant coaches uncertain about next season 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Associate Sports Editor 
For all nine Irish assistant coaches, the only thing they know for certain is that they will have a new boss next year. 
What they're still wondering about is if they'll still be working at Notre Dame. 
"Our assistant coaches under­stand that a new coach will select his own staff," White said Sunday after announcing Irish head coach Bob Davie had been fired. "But I've told them that they will continue as Notre Dame employ­ees, at least for that time." 
White also said that the staff would continue to actively recruit players. The goal, he said, is to keep things running as smoothly as possible. 
Plans for Notre Dame's annual football banquet, scheduled for Friday, are still continuing according to plan, said White. Normally. the Irish use the ban­quet weekend as a major recruit­ing opportunity. In most situa­tions, White said the Irish were planning to defer the recruits' official visit until January if possi­ble. 
Members of the coaching staff refused to comment on Davie's firing or their own future. 
The coaching staff was collec­tively informed of the decision to fire Davie around 10:30 a. m. Sunday morning. According to White, all accepted the decision 

to remain Notre Dame employees for the time being. "They were all terrific," White said. "Th~y were outstanding." 
The assistant coaching staff includes assistant head coach and linebackers coach Kirk Doll. offensive coordinator and quar­terbacks coach Kevin Rogers, defensive coordinator and defen­sive line coach Greg Mattison, receivers coach Joker Phillips, running backs coach Desmond Robinson, offensive line coahces Dave Borbely and Steve Addazio, cornerbacks coach David Lockwood and safeties coach Bill Sheridan. 
Doll came to Notre Dame with Davie in 1995. All other assistant coaches were hired during Davie's tenure, with Phillips, Lockwood and Sheridan finishing up their first year under Davie. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at 
asoukup@nd.edu. 

Comparing Coaches 

Knute Rockne 1918·1930 
105,.12·5 
Frank Leahy1941·1953 87.. 11·9 
Ara Parseghian
1964·1974 
95·17·4 
Lou Holtz 
1986.. 1996 100.. 30-2 

Hunk Anderson 
l.931~1933 
16·9·2 
Terry Brennan 
1954·1958. 
32·18·0 
Dan Devine 1975--1980 53·16*1 
Bob Davie 1997.. 2001 35·25·0 
.. 

Connolly 
continued from page 20 
After being attacked for · months in the press, Davie did not use his last Irish press conference to fire back. Instead, he turned the other cheek. 
"Before I leave, I just want to thank all you guys in the media," he said. "I know all of you have a responsibility. I understand what comes with that responsibility and I hope you have respect for me from the way I've handled myself. IfI can ever do anything for any of you, let me know." 
Alumni and some reporters have said that Davie doesn't understand the Irish spirit and doesn't fit at Notre Dame. Ifhonesty, integrity and respect aren't the three most important parts of Irish spirit, then Irish spirit is worthless. 
Bob Davie the head coach might not be the right fit for Notre Dame's football team. But no one better embodies the spirit and class of Notre Dame than Davie. If Davie can't come back to visit Notre Dame and always find a place in the Notre Dame family, then I want no part of this place. 
In his farewell address. Davie said if his•son Clay grows up to be like the type of men on his football team, he will consider himself a success. If I live my life with the same class and dignity as Bob Davie, I will consider myself a success. 
Thanks Coach. 
Contact Mike Connolly at connolly.28@nd.edu. The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe writer nad not necssarily those ofThe Observer. 
Jesse Harper
1913-1917 
34~5*1 
Elmer Layden 
1934·1940 
47-13~3 
Joe Kuharich 
1959 .. 1962 
17.. 23 .. 0 
Gerry Faust 1981*1985 
30*26*1 

Coach 
continued from page 20 
replacement to Lou Holtz in 1996. Notre Dame was Davie's first head coaching posi­tion. 
White was quick to speak about the unique nature of Notre _Dame, and how that played into his head coach search. 
"We are different and unique and we have to find somebody that fits Notre Dame and fits our particular situation. I think that's fairly small," said White. 
The group is small enough to fuel almost universal speculation. Oakland Raiders head coach Jon Gruden and Oklahoma Sooners 
·head coach Bob Stoops have received the most attention from the media, but other rumored frontrunners include the Jacksonville Jaguars' Tom Coughlin and the Oregon Ducks' Mike Belotti. 
Specifically, White refused to comment on any situation involving current NFL coaches or how Notre Dame would handle a situation involving a coach and the NFL playoffs and Super Bowl. 
Davie had his own advice to his successor at Notre Dame. 
Contact Jeff Baltruzak at baltruzak.2@nd.edu 

Reactions 
continued from page 20 
and Jeff Faine. 

Although the players said that firing coaches was part of football, they said it was difficult to watch Davie get criti­cized throughout the season. 
"It's hard because you listen to Coach Davie five minutes ago [at his press conference] pouring his heart out and We know what he did," Setta said. "A lot of the reporters, the students, the faculty ... they don't know what he had to go through and how much he put into this program. Sometimes they look dovvn on him as a person and not just as a coach and that's disappointing. You really wanted him to succeed because of how people got down on him." 
Davie said he left his players with just one request for the 2002 season ­win. 
'Tm going to watch you next year and I'm going to tape every one of those games and I want to see you win," he said. 
Contact Mike Connolly at connoly.28@nd.edu 
./!
i 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Go to StudentCity.com, call 1-800· 1994 Oldsmobile Cutlass Ciera, Student Wanted! Alum owned 2 Spring Break with STS, Americas Wanna lose weight? The JuicePlus 293-1443 or email 86,000mi, fine cond., loaded, $2800 story, 5 bdr, 2 bth w/new carpet. #1 Student Tour Operator. Promote Man can help! Call Andrew Laflin 4­LOST AND FOUND sales@studentcity.com to find out or best offer. Call 1-5233. appl, sec.roof & furnace, 3 lot yd, 1 trips on campus, earn cash and free · 3310 
more. blk.N of Club 23. 1-800-731-0043 trips. Info/Reservations. 1·800·648· FOUND: Kitten outside of Graduate 1996 Toyota Camry XLE 75k mi 4849 www.ststravel.com Roommate for Spring Sem. Turtle residences. Call 298-1533. Looking tor responsible person to Loaded Excellent Condition Creek Private BR $60/wk Call 
.....................-........................................................... ,.. ....,. 
housesit and take care of 2 dogs & $10,995 257-3429 Chicago Apartment in Wrigleyville Leonard 272-8582 
Lost Silver Heart Charm with, cat, from 12/22 to 1/5. House is 7 Owned by ND prof. Avail.lmmed. •••ACT NOW! GUARANTEE THE "November 24th, 2000" inscribed on blocks from campus. $300. 287-VW 97 Jetta GL, 5spd, red/drkgry, Large 2 bdrm 1 bath, restored BEST SPRING BREAK PRICES! SEMESTER BREAK WORK 400+ it. If found, please call Morgan at 3054. sunroof, CD, pwrlocks, AC, immac­woodwork, bookcases, dining rm, SOUTH PADRE, CANCUN, LOCATIONS AROUND THE U.S. 634-2449. ulate, 29K, $12,000/best, Kimberly hardwood floor, new kitchen, dish­JAMAICA, BAHAMAS, ACAPUL­WWW. WORKFORSTUDENTS.CO 
FOOSBALL•Looking for high level or Rich at 631-5368 washer, microwave. Mini blinds, CO, FLORIDA & MARDI GRAS. M players. Are you good enough? Call central heaVAC, ceiling fans, pri­REPS NEEDED. TRAVEL FREE, D 257-4441 vate balcony, laundry, off-street EARN $$$. GROUP DISCOUNT SPRING BREAK Cancun, Jamaica, 
WANTED 
parking incl. $1575 plus 1.5 months FOR 6+. 800-838-8203/ S. Padre, & all Florida destinations. 
FOR RENT

Calling Elvis... looking for students security deposit. Owner occupied. WWW.LEISURETOURS.COM BEST Hotels, FREE parties, LOW­
WANTED: SPRING BREAKERS! to work as impersonators at JPW Call 773-348-5832 or e-mail EST prices! Sun Coast Vacations wants to send for the 1950s booth. Desperately HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM­bower.1@nd.edu www.breakerstravel.com (800) 985­you on Spring Break to Cancun, the seeking James Dean, Marilyn PUS mmmrentals.com email:mmm­EARN HOLIDAY CASH 257-8129 6789. 
Bahamas, Jamaica, or Mazatlan Monroe and the KING! Call Jocie rentals@aol.com FOR FREE! To find out how, call 1-Antonelli at 631-0106. SPRING BREAK INSANITY! Observer reunion information: 888•n7-4642 or email: sales@sun­PERSONAL WWW.INTER-CAMPUS.COM OR e-mail obsreunion@hotmail.com coastvacations.com CALL 1-800-327-6013 GUARAN­
Houses available for 3 to 6 stu­SPRING BREAK Largest selection TEED LOWEST PRICES! CAN­Say Hi! to your friends for just pen• 
FOR SALE

SPRING BREAK PARTY! Indulge dents. Good area... ADT, washer­of Spring Break Destinations, CUN, JAMAICA, FLORIDA AND nies a day. Use The Observer clas­in FREE Travel, Drinks, Food and dryer-ai. including Cruises! Rep Positions, BAHAMAS PARTY CRUISE! FIF­sifieds. Parties with the Best DJs and 2000 Toyota Echo 4dr, red, auto, Dave 340-0106 Free Drinks and Free trips avail­TEEN YEARS EXPERIENCE! celebrities in Cancun, Jamaica, cd/cass 19,000ml, like new, must able. www.EpicuRRean.com 1-800-FREE TRIPS FOR CAMPUS Classifieds deadline is 2 p.m. Mon Mazatlan, and the Bahamas. sell 10,500 obo 631-5144/234-7741 231-4-FUN REPS! -Fri. one day before publication. 
---···-··-··-------·-------·--··--·-----------.-----------------------·········-···------·-···--------··-·--·--·······-·-------·· ----····----··-··.....·-·..··-···-----··---------···---····--------·-···-··-·-·------·--····-­
-
Monday, December 3, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
Spartans end Irish hopes for NCAA championship 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Sports Editor 
After a strong start in game one, the Notre Dame volleyball team dropped its final three games against No. 20 Michigan State Friday night as the Spartans (21-7) defeated the Irish (25-30, 30-16, 30-20, 30­
24) in the first round of the NCAA tournament. 
The Irish hit only .110 for the match after posting an impres­sive .282 mark in the first game. Notre Dame finished with only three blocks in the four games, an uncharacteristically low num­ber. 
"Obviously the last three games didn't go as we had planned or intended them to," said sophomore middle blocker Kim Fletcher. "The first game· was awesome." 
Fletcher led the Irish with 16 kills on a .355 hitting percent­age, the only Notre Dame player posting a mark higher than .167. The other sophomore in Notre Dame's starting lineup, setter Kristen Kinder, contributed 38 assists. 
"(Fletcher] did play very well and I thought that Kristen did a good job of getting her the ball," 
said Irish head coach Debbie 
Brown. 
Marcie Bomhack agreed in 
that assessment of her sopho­
more classmates. 
"Although every senior would like to think that the team can­not go on without them, I know for sure that Notre Dame volley­ball will have a great year next year," Bomhack said. "We start­ed one freshman and two sopho­mores, they're having a whole year of match experience will be very beneficial for the team going into next season." 
Notre Dame's attack at middle blocker helped the Irish get out to an early lead in game one. Fletcher and Goralski each scored three early kills to give Notre Dame a 10-5 edge. That lead grew to 17-11 midway through the game after Goralski and senior Kristy Kreher com­bined on a block. 
After two Spartan attack errors gave the Irish a 25-20 lead, Bomhack, playing in front of nearly 20 family members in her home state, put the Irish at game point with two kills. A Michigan State attack error gave Notre Dame the first game. 
"The Michigan State girls said that they were a little nervous from the start and you could see 
that in some of the errors that 
they made but we definitely took 
advantage of it," Fletcher said. 
That nervousness wore off in the second game as the Spartans posted a .522 percentage while holding the Irish to a -.143 mark in the second game. The Spartans got out to a 10-4 lead which they extended to 19-7, forcing the Irish to take a time­out. At that point, Notre Dame had registered only two kills in the game. Notre Dame closed the gap to 25-14 after the time­out, but scored only two of the next seven points and fell 30-16. 
The third game wasn't much better for Notre Dame. Big East player of the year Goralski was blocked twice early and a streaky Notre Dame offense allowed the Michigan State lead to hit 22-9 before the Irish offense woke up. 
The Spartans moved within one game of victory with a 30-20 win. 
"They made a few adjustments but you look at the stats the rest of the games, it just seems like we didn't perform at as high of a level as we did in the first game," Bomhack said. 
In the final game of the match, the teams were tied at 7-7 before Michigan State scored 

four unanswered points to force 
a Notre Dame timeout. 

"We kept fighting and we were actually on a roll and made them call a timeout late in game four but it was just a little bit too late," Brown said. 
The Irish closed it to 15-13, but the Spartans reeled off a streak of five points in a row to widen the gap and the Irish never pulled within striking dis­tance, ultimately falling 30-24. 
"I think we fought hard until the end, but couldn't seem to pull it out," Brown said. 
It was Notre Dame's earliest exit from the NCAA tournament since being upset by Ohio State in the first round in 1999. Before that, Notre Dame last went one­and-out in 1992, when the team played in the MCC. 
But the Irish, ranked in the top 25 throughout the season, faced tougher first-round competition than ever before this season thanks to a change in how the teams were assigned to regional play. 
"The Championship Committee made a decision after the tragedy on Sept. 11 that they were going to seed only the top 16 and then try to keep it as regional as possible and to have as few people fly as possible after that time," Brown said. "A lot of the brackets were very. very unbalanced." 
The loss also marked the final career matches for seniors Kreher, Goralski and Bomhack. causing some emotional moments in the Notre Dame locker room. 
"Our senior class has been a huge part of our team so there were a lot of things said in the locker room," Fletcher said. "Most of it just had to do with their leadership on the court, off the court. They were great peo­ple, great players, a lot of fun to play with. I don't know if that made them feel any better though." 
Bomhack tried to explain her emotions after the match as well. 
"It's really sad to think that that might be the last time I ever play volleyball competitively," Bomhack said. "To think of all the great things that have hap­pened in our four years here and how lucky we were to be part of this team, it's an emotional and sad thought that we're not part of it anymore." 
Contact Noah Amstadter at amstadter. l@nd.edu. 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles find consolation in second seas-on victory 
against Dominican in the conso-

ByJOE LINDSLEY lation game of its annual tourna-
SpomWricers ment in the Angela Athletic 
Facility. It was a win some-lose some By the time Saturday's conso­weekend for Saint Mary's. lation round started, losing 
A loss to Marian College on games was getting old. Friday night inspired the Saint "We were expecting to win, Mary's basketball team to come nothing less. We were tired of back and record its second win losing," said senior forward of the season Saturday against Anne Blair, who shot 3-5 from Dominican at the Saint Mary's the field with nine boards on Roundball Classic. Saturday. "We got really pumped 
Friday night, in the first round up before the game to the point of the four team tournament, that there was no exception ­Saint Mary's lost to eventual we had to win this game." tournament champion Marian And they did win. Saint Mary's 67-56, after keeping pace with (2-4) defeated Dominican 67-51. the Knights until the very end of Senior Kristen Linkous. who the game. had four 3s for Saint Mary's on 
That loss pitted Saint Mary's Saturday, was pleased that 
Belles were playing a team they knew they could beat, even if it was in the consolation round. 
"We knew that playing Dominican would give us a very good opportunity to win," Linkous said. · 
The Belles intensity showed from the start in their scoring, as well as in their fouling. Blair, junior forward Kristen Matha, and freshman forward Emily Creachbaum all had three fouls in the first quarter. By halftime the Belles had run the score up to 40 points to Dominican's 25. 
Dominican seemed too weak to handle the more aggressive play of the Belles. In the first half, the team were 5-24 from the field, while Saint Mary's was 15-30. 
Moving to New York this January ... 
...and need an apartment? A 1999 ND grad is looking for a room1nate for a very nice 2BR apartn1ent in Hoboken, NJ. Full Manhattan view. 15 min. commute (quicker than upper east/west side). Call Michael at 201.386.1212 
NOWLIAllNfi·•·· 

For the 2002-2003 Schoot. 'rear·•·••·•··· 
DOHUS PROPERT'IIS 

. 2,4,5,6,8 Bedroom Hou.s1=s 
. Student NeigihiborhQpcls 
. c.lose to campU.s. 
. Security Systems 

. Well Maintained Homes 
. Maintenance StaffOn Call 

GOING 
. Washer and Dryers 

QUICKLY!! 
ContactKramer (2.19) 298-96730R (2.19) 234-2.436 OR(219)674-l471. 

"Dominican took a lot more penetration. They didn't have many post players, so we had to play outside on them," Blair said. "We had to adjust to that. That's where I think a lot of our fouls came from, the penetration." 
This increased intensity is a new component to the Belles' game plan. 
"We try to push the ball a lot, that's a new part of our game this year. We're going to have a lot more turnovers than we used to last year," Linkous said. 
The Belles had 29 turnovers Saturday, compared to the Stars' 
17. But when Dominican got the ball, they couldn't do much with it. Many of Saint Mary's turnovers came during the sec­ond half when head coach Suzanne Smith sent some of her young, inexperienced players onto the court. Freshmen Maureen Bush and Deirdre Mangan performed well in their first block of time. Bush was 3-3 from the field and Mangan was 6-8 from the charity stripe. 
"It was good to get the experi­ence," Bush said. 
\,Vith the younger players on the court in the second half, the Stars scored 26 points to the Belles' 27, but the lead Saint Mary's established in first half was a large enough safety net that they had no reason to worry about a comeback. 
The only area where the Stars 
seemed to shine was in free 
throws. Dominican shot 73.3 
percent from the line, while the 
Belles hovered around 50 per­
cent. Joanna Mallek of 
Dominican was 6-6 in free 
throws. 
"I think [free throw shooting] is 
where Dominican got into the 
game," Blair said. 
"We work on free throws every 
day in practice," Linkous said. 
"That is one of our weaknesses." 
Another weakness the Belles 
had to worry about was commu­
nicating on the court. Saturday 
night the Belles didn't have a 
problem. but the Belles had trou­
ble talking on the court during 
the loss against Marian on 
Friday night. 
"Talking is one of the biggest things we have to do, and we just stopped talking for awhile and lost our momentum," Linkous said. 
Physically, Marian was much · larger than Saint Mary's. 
"We expected Marian to run the floor really quickly and to be strong players and really good outside shooters," Blair said. 
Marian was strong, but Belles were able to keep pace and Blair tied the game with 13 minutes to go. 
At the end of the first half, the Belles thought the game to be very winnable. 
"We were very confident. We wanted to go out in the second half and pick it up a little. and we did, but then lost it," Linkous said. 
Despite the Belles confidence, they couldn't stay focused. Inconsisten play gave Marian the win. 
"I don't think we lost intensity. \\le just missed a few crucial free throws. We were up and down, up and down," Blair said. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at lindsley.l@nd.edu 
-


\ page 14 Monday, December 3, 200 I 
\ The Observer . SPORTS 
I 
i 
I 
\ 
I 
I ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
I 
\ 
~ 
l \ Wolverines out for blood 
about that game every 
"I don 't care who was game, Notre Dame had
day since last year ... in 
retiring on their team, out-rebounded its oppo­
my mind I wanted to get 
nents by 13, averaging
off to a good start and that's what I was out for 
47 rebounds a game.
take it to them." 
-blood against Notre Saturday. however, it 
The Wolverines took it 
Dame.,, was the Wolverines who 
to Notre Dame by taking 
were crashing the 
it to the basket. 
boards. Michigan
Michigan's veteran Alayne Ingram 
grabbed 40 rebounds
squad allowed Notre 
point guard while Notre Dame only 


. Michigan gets revenge, defeats Notre Dame 78-63 
ByKATIEMcVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 
GRAND RAPIDS, Mich. 
When the Wolverines took the floor against the Irish on Sunday, they didn't just want to win -they wanted blood. After falling to Notre Dame in round two of the NCAA finals to end last season, Michigan had its sight set on a kill. The Irish fell prey, 78-63. 
"I don't care who was retiring on their team, that's what I was out for -blood against Notre Dame," Michigan point guard Alayne Ingram said following the game at Van Andel Arena. "I have thought 
Dame to have the lead 
only once -in the open­
ing minutes of the first half. But once the 
Wolverines took a 13-9 lead, they made 
sure the victory would be theirs. 
"I've felt like a predator for a long time now, since the rankings came out," Wolverine center LeeAnn Bies said. " ... I'm sure that this [victory] enforces it." 
While the Wolverines were busy getting revenge, the Irish were busy getting their defense together. In the first half alone, Notre Dame tried running three different defenses to contain the potent Michigan offense, to no avail. In the opening 20 min­utes, Michigan shot 68 percent from the floor and racked up an 18-point lead before heading into the locker room at the half. 
"We tried three different things in the first half and it really wasn't that effective." McGraw said. "It was two-fold. They were already in sync ... and I think nothing could have stopped that. But also I didn't think we were at our best, really in terms of intensity, in that defense." Shortly after taking the four-point lead, 

I i the Wolverines went on a scoring streak 
I sinking the ball for 15 points. The Irish 
) 
) 
answered with only four. 
Notre Dame grabbed the first six points in the second half, bringing the score with­in 12. But Michigan's defense did what it had done all evening and stopped the Irish before they could really get started. Ingram scored her third basket outside the three­point line, to put the Wolverines up 15. 
"They really kept keeping us down," McGraw said. "We would try to make a lit­tle run, every now and then, and they would just stop it." 
It was more than inexperience that con­tributed to the Irish loss. Notre Dame had trouble rebounding all night and gave Michigan four three-point plays in the fourth quarter. 
"I don't thipk it was [because ofl youth so much tonight that we looked so bad," Irish head coach Muffet McGraw said. "I think Michigan came out and really played a 
great game." 
Prior to the Michigan 
got its hands on the ball 28 times after scoring attempts. 
"That was probably the most disappoint­ing thing in the game," McGraw said. "They crushed us on the backboard ... We've been out-rebounding teams by almost 15. Boy not tonight, we just didn't got after the ball tonight." 
Freshman Jackie Batteast just missed a double-double, scoring 17 points for the Irish and rebounding nine times. Alicia Ratay added 19 points for the Irish and Jeneka Joyce came off the bench to score 11. 
Notes: 
. 
Amanda Barksdale played her first game of the season after suffering from a stress­injury. The junior post player played for nine minutes and scored three points for the Irish. 

. 
The Irish will take three days off before traveling to Purdue to take on the Boilermakers on Thursday. 


Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 

l 
Like SMC? Like Sports? Call 1-4543 
eno1111oi-ls 
FLEECE 
Selection. 
Sminutes~ frorn CIUTPCJS'T Car11plts llllllll[T!Eif] 
Cold Weather Experts 
CoU 259-1000 for more details 

The holiday cleaning sale you've been V1aiting for --­All holiday formal dresses dry cleaned for $9.95! 
(Does not include 2.00 silk charge or removal oftrim that cannot be processed) 
Regular dresses only $8.00 ~ Good through the entire month of December! 
RY 
& DRYCLEANING 
Main Plant: 100 St. Mic:haePs Laundry Phone: 631-7422 Laundry Bundle Distribution Center Phone: 631-7565 Visit our web site at www.ndlaundry.com for additional pricing information. 

Monday, December 3, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Freshman faults caused Irish loss 
GRAND RAPIDS, Mich. Muffet McGraw's comments Let's face it, the six fresh­ans. us and we had a lot of one-on­
In the green room at Van regarding her team's perfor­men who comprise the Irish Batteast shot 5-17 from the one opportunities. I'm not sure Andel Arena Sunday after­mance. class of 2005 are experiencing field Sunday, missing five we scored a basket on the noon, Irish senior Ericka "What a difference a year growing pains, some more shots from behind the 3-point block tonight in a post up situ­Haney sat in a chair, her head makes," McGraw said in her than others. In fact, during arc, although she did make ation. That was something that buried in her hands, tears opening statement. "I miss my one drill in which the Irish three 3-pointers on the way to we really wanted to do was goflowing team from last year. I don't were practicing charges last 17 points. But while Batteast down in the block and at least from her think it was [because of1 youth week in practice, the pains got isn't afraid to take the team try and get a foul." eyes as she so much tonight that we so bad that shooting guard upon her powerful shoulders, Lost in this youthful confu­tried to fig­looked so bad." Allison Bustamante severely she must learn to create situa­sion is Haney, the versatile 6-1 ure out As most the Michigan play­sprained her ankle while for­tions in which the Irish can player who developed her how the ers and a group of nearly ward Katy Flecky sustained a thrive instead of just survive. niche cleaning up missed shots Irish had 1,000 Irish fans in green T­concussion. Take for example the final in Notre Dame's structured just fallen shirts who rode a bus up for The Irish first-year players few minutes of Sunday's game. rotation last season. During 78-63 to a the game noticed, the familiar that were healthy enough to Batteast had just hit a 3-point­the second half alone Sunday. Michigan trio of Niele Ivey, Ruth Riley suit up Sunday didn't fare er to close the gap to 66-52. Haney played the three, four team Notre and Kelley Siemon just isn't much better. Forward After Alicia Ratay rebounded a and five positions at various Dame top-there anymore. And while Jacqueline Batteast has the Michigan miss, the ball ended points . 
. pied 88-54 McGraw is correct in pointing skills and athleticism to per­up in Batteast's hands once She has seen her position in the sec­out that the Wolverines per­haps someday be the greatest again, where she responded by change as the Irish adjust ond round formed exceptionally well women's basketball player taking, and missing, a 3-point­their offense to fit the needs of of the Sunday. to deflect the blame ever to come through Notre er with about 20 seconds left players like Wicks and NCAA tour-for the Notre Dame's perfor­Dame, but right now her the on the shot clock. Batteast, players with abilities nament last mance away from the three decisions she makes on the Had Batteast, likely Notre unlike any player Haney March. freshman who played signifi­court are more appropriate for Dame's most athletic post played with in her previous 
Haney's emotions could best cant minutes Sunday would be Washington High School than player. chosen to drive to the three seasons. So on Sunday, 
be summed up by head coach denying the facts. the defending NCM champi-hoop, she could have taken a Haney's tears flowed with her safer shot while putting the frustration. Wolverines in foul trouble as "Compared to last year I the clock ran down. Instead, need to step more up my confi­the freshman took the first dence level and be more of a open shot that she saw. leader and right now I'm not 
"She's not been successful on being that," Haney said before the block like we would have choking up. At that point. hoped that she would be," McGraw came over and put McGraw said. "She really her hand on Haney's back, a hasn't performed well down gesture to tell the senior there." everything will be okay soon. 
Center Teresa Borton hit one With a national champi­of only four field goal attempts onship rematch game with in 20 minutes. finishing with Purdue looming on the horizon two points and only one Tuesday, it's time for the rebound. freshman to ease McGraw's 
~Kelsey Wicks, a 6-2 swing and Haney's frustration and player, hit one of four shots in use their minds along with 12 minutes, missing both free­their talent. When they do, this throws she took. Wicks also team just might start winning jumped the gun in the second the games it used to. half, taking an ill-advised three-pointer. Contact Noah Amstadter at 
"I was really disappointed amstadter.l@nd.edu. The that we weren't a little more opinions expressed in this col­aggressive offensively," umn are those of the writer McGraw said. "I think that and not necessarily those of they sort of matched up with the Observer. 
., 




page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, December 3, 200 I 
HOCKEY 
Irish freeze Lakers, earn first sweep 2-0 
ByMAITORENCHUK 
Sports Writer 
For the first 102 minutes and 22 seconds of last weekend's series against the Lake Superior State Lakers, the Notre Dame hockey team dominated. And, despite Lake Superior State's last-ditch attempt to bring home a win, Notre Dame brought home two wins. 
The Irish won the first game of the series Saturday evening with a 7-0 drubbing of the Lakers. On Sunday the Irish took a 3-0 lead into the third period. But a couple of defensive lapses allowed the Lakers to get back into the game, cutting the lead to 3-2, before Rob Globke's goal sealed the game for the Irish with a final 5-2 score. 
"This game was never easy," said Poulin. "In the third we had a gut check, but we didn't flinch." 
Following a 7-0 thrashing of the Lakers, the Irish expected another easy win, but in the final minutes of the game, the Lakers had a different idea. 
Notre Dame controlled play in the first two periods, outshoot­ing the Lakers 31-9 in the first two periods of play. But several bounces of the puck kept the Irish from blowing the game wide open. 
Rob Globke got the scoring started when he beat Lake Superior State goalie Matt Violin 
7:23 into the first period. In the second the Irish continued to dominate. Mike Chin deflected a pass past Violin at 5:39 of the period to extend the Notre Dame lead to 2-0. Then Alex Lalonde put one in the net at 
1 7: 34 to make it a 3-0 Irish lead. 
In the third the momentum appeared to turn. Just 2:22 into the period the Lakers finally got on the board when defenseman \,Vill Magnuson bounced the puck past Irish goaltender Tony Zasowski. Then, 2:06 later the Lakers struck again when Adam Nightingale shot high past Zasowski. Suddenly the game was 3-2, and the Irish appeared to be on the defensive. 
Notre Dame proved its grit with a great individual play. Rob Globke took the face off on the left circle and fired it unassisted past the Laker goalie, sealing the game for the Irish. The scor­ing was finished when John Wroblewski scored on an empty net to make the final score 5-2. 
Saturday's 7-0 win was a record-breaking affair for the Irish as seven different players lit the lamp in the blowout win for Notre Dame. The game was the first shutout in a Notre Dame uniform for freshman goalie Morgan Cey and the largest margin of victory for Notre Dame in CCHA play. 
Connor Dunlop got the scoring started for Notre Dame in game one when he beat Lake State goalie Scott Murray 5:33 into the first period. Then Paul Harris added another goal for the Irish at 9:02 of the period. The Irish killed several penalties that could have changed the momentum of the game, and then Rob Globke got a goal at 
14:52 of the period to make it 3­
0. From that point on the momentum was with the Irish. David Inman finished the scor­ing in the first when he knocked in a power play goal at the 
18:25 mark to make it 4-0. 
"\,Ve were dominant early," said Irish coach Dave Poulin. "\Ve got four goals and some strong penalty kills that set the tone of the game." 
In the second the Irish contin­ued to shine. Freshman Yan Stasny chipped in with a goal at 
7:24 of the second, and Evan Nielsen scored three minutes later to make it 6-0. 
In the third, the seventh man for the Irish scored when Alex Lalonde beat Murray 59 seconds into the period for the final score. 
The weekend was a coming out party for the Irish as the Irish got their first series sweep since the end of last season. Notre Dame is above .500 in the CCHA with a 4-3-3 record and is tied for sixth in the standings. Poulin attributes much of Notre Dame's success to the emer­


RICO CASARES/The Observer 

Sophomore defender Tom Galvin makes a stop during a Notre Dame game against Lake Michigan. 
gence of Mike Chin. Green next weekend for a two 
"The emergence of Chin has game series with the Falcons given me more flexibility in the next weekend. lines," said Poulin. "Three goals [in Sunday's game] are as a result of his line tonight." Contact Matt Orenchuk at 
The Irish travel to Bowling morenchu@ncl.edu. 

•·•··•.•••• :r.J;1l..JM01ERGRADl.d~ffiE•C!QltJl5.~5,.. ·.·••··•·•SPRIMG:••·.·2002 
. IRIStf LANGOAd~ > ·.· ·.···•·· ......... ·. . > . } ·:· ... . . : > :.... :. <:.: .•· ·. .. / : . . •••.. ·.. •... ; . .• ·:··· •· .... . < . 
•·· flesinnihg1:~,r~stJoJ#tMWF9,35.to:¾~J3te~~ffM~Su.1bhnet \> )T . ii/. . .....·.•··•·:••· > .· ·.:••i·•:··•/ / .. ·.·
··••·~n,;~i,11r~~t:1~:t:~r::~i:~,r~1il~ti~r:t:h~·I1~i.!••ri~1n:1~i~;:&:::;:~iii@ii~~~t:·a~~~t·· 
j•==--~n;¦¦¦z11•1111¦-¦11~1t~ijr~~~4{z~~;~2-: 
. / secon(l~m~ster.of b1st(ueti00 lt1the Ulsh (atiijµage/CQ:o~l'lu~tlon pt lRS11l.ltt:5p:tcr,,,foi'e emptfasl~ wm be p.la~e~ oo rea.i:iiiw i:..lt:npl~ tekl$ Itl·• f 
•·••)jr!~I\//) •• } .......•.•••••••· ··< .••)<>?/. / > \i.· // > \ <....... >:••··•••••••·•·• .....·.·.... •· ......I .. 'lnterm~di@te. ltl$h fRST t03;01 ..MWF tQ;4Q;l))~ EaffiOntt QCiatdha P(ereqi.d$it@; Gt;IRJ02 P.t. IRSTJ02 .
l 
.. :· . . . f\AAtiti01J{W@.Qf)risl1 JQ(&. W~\JtlC~E~MP ~M@S.S\5 pnj~ abtliJYtq ~a~ gpth 4~h~~WJl~~f~o/ ~&~in W~hi: .. <> •... <.•.

' .·.· .. ··. iji~frS~v < = . . . . . . . . . . 
.. . .. . . == '" = ... . 
.~~oer~l:~~y•·Medieval••Jr~at1d.lRST•4~,d•1•••+••H··•1•·1•io&·1•~it$:•AiM~h·•.q;Ltary·••thi~·•h~~~~••i~•··~··~rv~··9!•• th~·:histdry•• apd••Jt1~µr~··~t••;g~•·it{sh·····•···•····· 
. ~nffp,1:tot~etQ~ltl~ ~opl~from the pre~(;hJistJan ~r~ toapRroxime.tely A()t§Q(l Jt~xplor~s 991v thE! ms;lry ~oc~rnf)ptt:ttY: ~pyrces i11lra11s1atiQ(};.· • ,> • , .~hJs,tonq~!, mytl'1tilajlcflfe.ri~ Uterary, oocl~sll!l$tjcal and secula.r~-and ~roha,~?ltiglpaf~Y~l:li'\de" .. / :< > .•.•.... < . < > •·. ·:. / • >} :; ;, "'-. 
.l:lizabethatis and their World IRST 432:0tJH 3'.30~;45 piaran E¼rade Tl:I{~ coµrs,e sets th~ WOrkOf the gteal tf9pres oMh~ '(El!zab~th~rf .• :........·. ::.•.··.•.:=,.:.::':'.:::,_l:;,;·•··· t >
. ... 
l 
fienais.s.t:lpce"~,sna~tii3peat~, SpaQtft.amt $idp~y71~ W(d~r c;µrtu~tand••iQtfYectuf:tJ91;mt~~t~'..~teriaJ~•·~urgey~ct !MMcoµrse·•!n@ud.3•c;rJm~•·••••..:::.·......·=. wr~to,g,J~I\Qll)US. extiortations, ballads, Ell19(8,Vftigs, af\tj maps whlcttlate sixteenm cen!i.Wf!::.n~lts~ Pe.@Je µsed t<>.Co/JiPrenend .;ind COi')!l'Ot thW ·. ·.·. ·Ci191)9ing.wrirntfri:M$$Qt (:;;la(aJ} Brady •<>f•TtmiWQ9ll~gfj··~~hnirvl!I: te,pHm~ \:A~rs~:•• Prut~~ ~t~Y.l~•. ~ra.:iiS mr.\ll~tlryg N~ughtqo•feli6w.. · 
Irish History 1,.•iB$T$27B:01 ·..MWF s,39;10:~5 ~lm $@1ti•• ·TNs ooµrsa. cq~~stsb1•1~¢ttirj~ @d(eai:#oij~ •~t~lrli11l9g•1r1s1f:P?lltical:l)imow•·ajjg .: . /\rJ9!o-:lti~l'!.fl1l-ta~OOS••ftQt'rtl80t· 1,1Pto. an~.Inqtif.ilng .i.h~.cum~(ll•. cbpfligl•lfl.·N~rthsti'(lt:etaiW,Atter1~will be'. giVt:iri tq:ratig!OOS •scihflict.:thlli cteW#; 
1 
fdlliii~i§l;Bifiltf'1i6i1li¦Viiti 
Mfu!Z&1~~~!~~ ~~:c:;r,;s~~~!~~~i~~B~h7:~~i~~~:w~1~+~§trhg~lifor Ma$~e~y ;w1~,,~d, 1~9~~16~1RSJ' ~37:~~ 
.··• t H 9:3Q·1QA5 C1aran Bl'tldy ft:icuslng qo 1~70.1660, this course ottersn~ pernpec~s<)(lJh~ ~trtJggl~ tor tnastelY i~ l~rao~, l1'l~stigaHng a · · i'an9e <lf prirnt:lty ~~u~e$, $1.iJdetrts wHtexp~ tne mµ~1-1ay.ered EogliSh 9onqµestqt1reiana a:nij the <11yen;e (.Mpp1faespfJh~ fla.trv~;s ranging .
I . from accomtfioctatton and asSlrMe.lil:>ntooultight rebeilfon and natl9nal war,> \ • > •. · . ·.. { . . . . } . <..·· ... 
( 
· . The Irish Military Tradition !RST232:tl1 MWJ::55-2:4:5 Eamontl C)Ciardh~.co-r~, lAST232T < .<.<> • . } .) ·••:•···••··:•• ,/ ·.. · 
The Jrir:Jh Mititaty Tradition: Tutorial lf\ST 2~TF t:~5-2:45. EaO)Ol'IO O¢faroha G<,•r~q. JA,ST gi2 Whafootter atNotre D<1m.i tt,<1rJ aCCU($~ ·.· . · 9n 1he< fighting WiSti? Over IMlastiive CEmh.1rie$, huni:iieds•Of thousands Of!tis~n h.i.v~ .enQa~d in !l)i~la.iy cooUi~ afhpro~; in the s.irne . \ .• :·.·. .··• •·• period; as ma1'ly Jr:@merFhave serv~•irtthe arm~s ofvarious ~1,i(opean powars:Joe lJl'iit~d $tales,¢anadfand Mei<icd;Jhis ci.;ur:se expl~i'es · ....... ·. \ •· .• ll)e Changini,:i f;)9litlttifa~d \doologlcal cont~xls afldsh rri~itary lnvowernen~; ifdevote$ pa(tl(;Uli:i(&tt~11ti®J9l~t~~ ptiOlpipa@rqn In~ Americar\.. 
= Y'Jar of lndependen~e, me (;jvil W;sr and lt\e ~4pjygat¼:m ofJl'je na,tiy~ ~Qpl~s .• .·... . ... •.· .• •.. . . . . . · .....·.·. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... 
. <. · bri~AtORrt . 


lrish.Fiction194S.2001 1Asr31io11.H t1 :OO•l~;1 sM~ry Bµrg~ss Smytti t~i~ CdJi~e ~oveJ the w~k'Jb11&;~1~diir1i&wr.ije~s ajJJctiQn:: > ; ./ .since y¢ork1: War 11. Aeadlngs from the work ot such ~li~r.se writer$ ~~ Rogcly Qoyl~, N#il J9~d~ni.P~trick Kava~1;1n. Edi'lij Q'Srje~.J::tarin . . . . 
~:~~~e~:~:~ib~,~~a~:!~rt:Trr;6~1.~~9{lf:?~tJi~t?a~T!t~i!•1il@r~t~~:~~t.Jtfil·.r.•.nktapnbr~aj;···r~~d•·&lmig;••····••· .. 
rned-~in the tit~fature ot 19th and early 20th century lrefand f:s this course's :eentrill COtl®(I'\. Text$ irieft:lcle Jptin Milcher$. Jaii .Jouiiial, 'Elram, ? ••·••·•··=···· Stoker's Dracula, ..:1ng Oscar Wilckil'.s The ~qQf Re~ng Gaol, .:_... . . ...•. .•• •/ .. = • ••• •=·• ..••••• =•···• .••.. •.·.·.· ·.·. < ··•·:••• < >\ • ·=· •=•• <•• •... = .• /\>,>: .·.•.·... 
·..··\,,!i~11fJ~!,ir,tt~,,1111a~«f!E1t,11i:::j.,

Burl<e's tre=attse on the Subfimewm serve as a prologue. James Joycewm haunt the premises; · · · · · · ·· · ·· · · · ·· · · · ·'·· · ' ' · 
FILM STl)OIES 
-·:-.·-··.··· 
I

;,,,,~ Hfl( i,,sL lt ! .:• (_'l,•~ma illld CulttVi? ;q ·.; :., ," (J>1L)A5 LUktt G:bb<;hb C,H~qu;i;it~ !AST :.l.}4l L~t ,· ~· ,(; r-:0,:; :<\'-..:x;.ri , '.' ' '•'• .. i,· --~;,,·· ,, •.:•,;,. ·: :·' :,:,:,, ,., .,. :·, .. : ': ::.. ;,;;, and pl;.·:~~ !ht.ir di:ll&l.:.pmen! in v~i•Jo; cultur«! drl(J l",;,;, ,; ,.,! ;-,:,.:,t,.';; 1'·. ' . -~. ~-·~ ·.·.,-•-~y:.:r-:· ;r.!~~('!'~!:, ...· . -•,· .-_•;~· ~~ :.1t,d ~._1tfr,n, :=t!H11r,1,rf;i,f1~,\iif t~y bear On lm~i;e~ of ~CMd:i~;':' !p···1-j:r•i.;-L:,:_: ·n:;d,Or-t.. ,;ity, Janct~cape. tht; city. r~!i~o•,. violB!'lce, tar:-.,:, )r>:.1~omm,mity · · · 
' 




Monday, December 3, 2001 page 17
The Observer . SPORTS 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish scorch Blue Demons, 82-55 

By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Associate Sports Ed-icor 

When he was in the process of transferring to Notre Dame, Ryan Humphrey happened to turn on the television and see a replay of the-1980 Notre Dame­DePaul game. 
In that game, DePaul was ranked No. 1 and carried a 25-0 record into the game against the Irish. But Orlando Woolridge made two free throws at the end of double overtime to give the Irish a 76-74 win. 
Saturday afternoon, Humphrey made sure that the first game in seven years between the Blue Demons and the Irish was less of a rivalry and more of a rout. He scored 18 points and added 16 rebounds as Notre Dame rolled to an 82­55 victory in front of 6,860 at the United Center. 
"Every time someone tries to play physical with me, I try to use my speed, and when some­one tries to use their speed, I use my physicalness. I try to do whatever is needed," said Humphrey, who was named the player of the game. "Today it was speed." 
Against a much more physical DePaul squad -the Blue Demons had three players over 6-foot-9 -the Irish relied on speed and quickness in the post. Humphrey got off to a hot start, finishing the first half with 14 points, 11 rebounds and four blocked shots, and Harold Swanagan added 16 points and 11 rebounds for his first double­double of the season. 
"They just went inside and killed our guys," said DePaul 
coach Pat Kennedy. 

"Humph and Swan just played so tough this game," Irish guard Matt Carroll said. "I just wanted to keep throwing it in there all day and let them keep scoring." 
David Graves scored 14 points and Chris Thomas had 12 points and five assists. 
"Our quickness was definitely a factor," said Irish head coach Mike Brey. "We didn't run by them in the full court, but in the half court, we were able to beat 
THERE IS STILL TIME TO SIGN UP FOR 
3-credits 
CALL NUMBER 1470 

EALJ 101 (3-0-3) BEGINNING JAPANESE I MWF 9:35-10:25 PROFESSOR NORIKO HANABUSA 
Introduction to the fundamentals of modern Japanese with equal emphasis on speak~ng, listening, reading and writing in hiragana and katakana. This is the first of a three­semester sequence covering the same material as EALJ 
111-112 but at a less intense pace. Only offered in the spring. Textbook: Nakama, lessons 1-4. No prerequisites. Not open to srudents who completed EALJ 111 or higher. 
East Asian Languages & Literatures 205 O'Shaughncssy Hall 
631-8873 

Cold Weather Experts 
5minutes from Campus 
Call 259-1000 for more details 

them to some loose boards and 
the offensive boards." 
The Irish never trailed in the game. They jumped out to a 14­4 lead five minutes into the game and entered the locker room with a 15 point lead. In the second half, the lead stretched the lead to 32 points with just under two minutes to go. 
Notre Dame shut down DePaul's perimeter shooters all day long. They held vaunted point guard lmari Sawyer to just two points -both coming off free throws. The Blue Demons only shot 29.6 percent from the field. 
De Paul's frustration broke through with .12:55 left in the second half. As Thomas dribbled up the court, Graves ran by ... Sawyer and turned back to look for the pass. 
Sawyer, who was down on his knees, reached up and punched Graves in the groin. As Graves fell to the ground in obvious pain, a brief confrontation ensued before Brey ran onto the court and pulled his players toward the bench. Sawyer was not charged with a foul. 
"It was a blatant punch and it was a foul play," Graves said. "It was unfortunate it got to that point, but that's what our defense does -it frustrates peo­ple." 
"That kind of fueled us a little bit more," Thomas said. "I didn't expect for them to do something like that, and even a ref said he was flabbergasted." 
Despite the rout, both coaches were happy to see the rivalry between the two schools contin­ue. Before the game, Brey and Kennedy talked about making the game an annual event. 
"This is a great series," Brey said. " ... It was great for me this week to read about the history, being semi-new to this place." 
"I think it has the makings of being a heck of a game. Today was not one of them," Kennedy said. "We just broke down so quickly. Games like that get away early, and you just don't have the necessary tools and abilities to get back into it." 
Note: 
After Brey finished his opening statement at the post-game press conference, a hand shot up in the front row of the reporters. 
"Can you get Ryan Humphrey the ball more?" 
The question came from none other than Humphrey himself, who was waiting his turn to speak to the media. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 

/ 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, December 3, 2001 




ILL BE NEXT? 

0) 
.c 
-1-J 


J 
I 
en 
0) 
en 
0 ~ 
::c:· 

I 
I 
' ( t: f ~ ~ 
I 
i 
< 
cc 
Q 

I 
I 
i 
( 

Head coach Oakland Raiders 
Pros: The name most mentioned to replace Davie, "Chuckie" is one of the hottest young coaches in football right now. A South Bend native, Gruden's father was an assistant coach for Notre Dame in 1977. Gruden is know for being an energetic firebrand and, more importantly, an Irish fan. 
Cons: The Raiders will most likely make the playoffs and are picked by many to be in the Super Bowl in early February. There is some question of how Gruden would be able to juggle the responsibilities of a Super Bowl run and recruiting for the Irish, and if they can get him out of his contract with the legal-savvy Al Davi'i. 

Head coach San Francisco 49ers 
Pros: There's a tounge-in­cheek race between Mariucci and Michigan State basketball coach Tom Izzo to see who v'.ill be the first to coach football at Notre Dame. Mariucci is a huge Notre Dame fan, and has the coaching experience to fit in. He's led the 49ers to a 43-31 record over five seasons, and he spent one year as the head coach at Cal. 
Cons: Marriucci has contractu­al obligations to the 49ers, and with his team seemingly heading for the playoffs, the Irish wouldn't be able to get him until January at the earliest. And he's having success at the NFL and has a good team -why come to Notre Dame? 
Head 
coach 
Bowling 
Green 
Falcons 
Urban Meyer 
Pros: Meyer was an assistant coach for the Irish until last year, when he left for Bowling Green, so he knows the kind of pressure that surrounds Notre Dame. In just his first year as a head coach, he was named Coach of the Year in the Mid-American Conferenee and led the Falcons to an 8-3 record. 
Cons: Only one year as a head coach can't be that appealing to White, although it's better than nothing. But how would the current assis­tant coaching staff react if one of th_eir own, who then left for a year. returned as the head coach? 

Head coach Oklahoma Sooners 
Bob Stoops 
Pros: What isn't there to like about Stoops' record? He won a national championship in just his second year at Oklahoma. He's a recruiting genius. Plus, with the Sooners out of the BCS hunt, he could leave them earli­er than the other coaches. He won 20 games in a row that included games against Nebraska, Florida State and Texas. 
Cons: He had every chance to take a big job last year, and he stayed at Oklahoma. Would the lure of Notre Dame convince him to leave? Also, a lot of his talent at Oklahoma was junior college players -players that can't get into Notre Dame. 

Head coach Standford Crimson 
Pros: Willingham knows how to deal with tough admissions standards. Stanford is as tough on academics as Notre Dame. A well-respected coach, the NFL has come knocking several times for his services. 
Cons: Has not consistently won at Stanford. His winning percentage, .556, is worse than Davie's .576 at Notre Dame. Notre Dame is looking for a year in, year out winner, not Davie Part Duex. 


Head coach Wasti Huskies 

Rick Neuheisel 
Pros: He is charming, young and he has won. He has been successful at both Colorado and Washington. White is familiar with him through White's con­nections to the Pac-10. 
Cons: Many people ques­tioned his integrity after he left Colorado for Washington after publicly saying he had no inter­est in the Huskies' job. He might be a little too outgoing and talkative for a conservative campus like Notre Dame. 

Head coach Oregon Ducks  Head coach Jacksonvile Jaguars  
Mike Bellotti  Tom Coughlin  
Pros: Belotti· took a terrible Oregon football program and trans­formed it into a national power. And White, who was athletic director at Arizona State, has ties to the Pac-10 and surely knows Belotti. Plus, Belotti is losing a lot of talent, including Heisman Trophy candidate Joey Harrington. Cons: Last year, Belotti turned down a huge offer from USC, saying he was happy at Oregon. Nobody knows if he'd leave for Notre Dame. There have been doubts raised about his ability to recruit under strict acad­emic standards. Oregon is guaran­teed to be in a BCS bowl is an outside shot to get in the Rose Bowl, and Belotti probably v'.ill want to stick around until January.  Pros: Coughlin is a discipline guy that will be able to take charge of a program and shake things up quickly. Coughlin has head coaching experience at Boston College. He will be available sooner than Gruden, because Jacksonville will not be making the playoffs. Cons: Coughlin is 3-7 this season, and is wearing out his welcome in Jacksonville, after years of not taking the last step to the Super Bowl. Does Notre Dame want someone not on top of his game?  
Head coach WISCOllsin Badgers Barry Alvarez  Head coach Boston College Eagles Tom O'Brien  
Pros: He is a former Irish coach, being promoted from linebackers coach to defensive coordinator to assistant head coach in his three y$ars under Lou Holtz from 1987­89. He is the winningest coach in Wisconsin history, leading the Badgers to three Rose Bowl wins. Cons: He said in February 2001 that he intends to finish his career at Wisconsin. His program has not been squeaky clean: Wisconsin had multiple players suspended at the beginning of the 2000 season for NCAA violations involving free shoes. He lost four games last sea­son and seven games this season.  Pro: O'Brien isn't flashy but he has been successfu I. In five years as Boston College's head coach, he has taken the Eagles to three bowl games and beaten the Irish twice. He is familiar with stricter academic requirements through coaching at a Catholic university. Cons: While he has beaten the Irish twice, he really han 't beaten anybody else.  



Head coach 
Northwestern 
Wildcats 
Pros: He took the Wildcats to the top of the Big 10 despite a tough academic environment in Evanston. 
Cons: Northwestern fell flat on its face with a 4-7 record in 2001. After the death of a play­er in a preseason workout, Walker is also under a lot of public scrutiny. 
Notre Dame might not want any part of the impending law­suit against Walker. 

Head coach Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets 

Pros: He has been success­ful for a long time at Tech. 
He also tends to attract tal­ented recruits and could do even better with a big name like Notre Dame behind him. 
Cons: While he is a well­respected coach, he might not be a big enough star to impress Irish fans. 

Monday, December 3, 2001 
The Observer . TODAY page 19 -­
RYAN

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED
FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY 
CUNNINGHAM 

Fox TROT BILL AMEND 
SPlT! SPIT! SPIT! 
THE 


No, you don't do that. 



EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 33 Suffix with 65 Farm sounds 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22):
1 "Hold it right serpent 66 Bonehead 
THIS DAY: Ted Turner, Joelie Fos­Meet new people who can offer there!" 34 Philanthropist 67 Predecessor of 
ter, Meg Ryan, Larry King, Savion mental stimulation and some Glover; Ahmad Rashad fresh ideas that will lead to posi­
5 Saintly glow 37 General Foods Exxon 
Happy Birthday: Pick up the tive changes. A change is as good
9 Scout's mission coffee 68 Painting not for 
pace and prepare to make snap as a rest. 00000
14 Metrical foot 38 Party with leis the demure 
decisions. You can count on some LIBRA (Sepl 23-0ct. 22): Take 15 Pitcher 40 Subject of this 69 Phony gems 
obstacles and frustrations. Be good advice today. A broken he~ 16 Prefix with puzzle 70 Like one side of 
relentless in your efforts and you is likely if you pursue an unavail­will sail through any minor set­able person. Don't take out your
centric 42 Hitch a pool 
backs and reap rewards. Your frustrations on loved ones. There
17 Mmes., in 71 "_out?" (pet's
43 Burst 

numbers: 15, 17, 19, 22, 28, 37 are always two sides. 00
Madrid choice)
45 Excite 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):18 Letterman of It's time to get serious about the Take it easy. This is not the day to 
47 Had lunch

late-night DOWN future. You probably haven't been take chances. Your do-or-die atti­19 Anthracite and 48 Celebrate 1 Bit of smoke doing your best lately. Personal tude may get you into trouble. bituminous 50 Showing more problems are interfering with pro­Don't be too stubborn to know
2 Spy Mata_ 

age, maybe ductivity. Consider whether your when it's time to let something or
20 See 40-Across 
3 Arabian motives are valid. You may need someone go. 0000
52 Aware of

23 Bread for a ham Peninsula land to change your direction. 00 SAGfITARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21.): sandwich 53 ". . . to fetch 4 Soak up TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You should consider starting your 24 Saxophone and of water" Consider planning a family out­own business. Don't go over­
5 Many an estate 

ing or spending time together at board. Start small and build your 
oboe 55 Sal of song, e.g. 
border 

home. You can win. points with business on solid ground. You
25 Elmer who 57 See 40-Across 6 Oscar or Tony 
children by taking an interest in will enjoy meeting people and
hunts wabbits 62 Lasso 7 501's 
their accomplishments. 00000 gaining information today. 000 27 Truth stretcher 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): CAPRICORN (Dec. 22•Jan. 19):
64 Wyatt of the 8 Calif. neighbor30 Indian child West 
Minor health problems are likely Not everyone shares your enthu­
9 Gets back 

to result if you have been overdo­siasm. You may be a little too 
10 D.D.E.'s W.W. 11 

ing it or staying up too late. Relax determined and forceful in deal­
command 

and get your life back in perspec­ing with others. Don't twist things
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
tive. Mend any disputes with around so that they soWld more
11 See 40-Across 12 Left Turn Puzzle by .i.nlce M. Putney 

loved ones. 000 enticing. Stick to tlie truth if you CANCER (June 21-July 22): want others to pitch in 00
(street sign) 32 Itching to go 

54 Derby prize 59 It could be You won't be lucky in love today. AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 13 The scenter of 35 "Just do ir proper Don.'t profess your feelings to It is best to play it straight today.
55 Handshake

things? sloganeer someone unless you're certain A secret affair would only cause 56 Broadway hit 60 Extinct bird
21 Ticked (off) they're reciprocated. You may complications and mishaps in
36 Start of a long 

co-written by have to question your motives your life. Don't become involved 22" Man distance call Elton John 61 River of and honesty regarding personal in other people's private matters.
Answers" (1962 

39 Atop Belgium involvements. 000 You can make sound financial
flick) 58 Owner's 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Take investments if you act fast. 000
41 Sweet drink • certificate

26 "_ I say, not 63 Preschooler work home today. Sudden sur­PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): " 44 Test the prising changes concerning co­You may be uptight today. Take a strength of, workers will leave you feeling trip or just spend some quality
27 Secretary, at 

chemically Answers to any three clues in this puzzle time with people you enjoy. Stop 
insecure. Minor health problems
times 

are available by touch-tone phone: doing for everyone else and start
due to stress may lower your
46 Fussy sort 

1-900-420-5656 (9Se per minute). vitality. Take care of yourself. doing for yourself. 0000 
29 See 40-Across 49 Miler Sebastian ­
000
Annual subscriptions are available for the 30 Mice, to cats 51 Graduates 
best of Sunday crosswords from the last so 

Birthday Baby: You were born to strive for perfection. You are deter­
31 In-line item 

53 Humiliate years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. mined, forceful and will not give up until you reach your goals. You are dedicated and will never back down. (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, 
eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
IC) 2001 Universal Press Syndicate 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year ,.. 
D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 

Name _______________________ 
Address ____________________ 
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
.. 


~ 
\.t 
!
1 
t: OTHE Campus Sports 
BSERVER
i: 
i . Men's basketball, p. 17 ,i~ .l . Hockey, p. 16 
I 
. Women's Basketball, p. 14

~ 
\I r, . SMC Basketball, p. 13 
! Monday, December 3, 2001 
t ~ 
FOOTBALL

~ 
~­
'< 
~ 
Search launches for new coach 
' 
. Gruden, Stoops rumored to be high 


on list 
By JEFF BALTRUZAK 
Assistant Sports Editor Notre Dame athletic director 
Kevin \,Yhite said Sunday after­noon that he has a "short list" of possible replacements for fired head football coach Bob Davie and hinted at several cri­teria for candidates, but stopped short of naming any individuals in consideration to lead the Irish football program. 
"I do have a short list," said \Vhite. "I have not contacted anybody. I have not had any con versa­tions at this point. I don't See Also 
know what "Assistants the level of 
uncertain about
interest may or may not next season" be." 
page 12
White said he has kept a mental list of coaches to watch and keep track of, as an experienced athletic adminis­trator should. 
White emphasized on multi­ple occasions that he has not contacted any potential head coach replacements, nor has "anyone authorized by [him]." He would not comment on the possibility that head coach candidates have beeri contact­ed by other agents authorized by the University. 
White was also vague as to how long Notre Dame would take to find and hire a new head coach. 
"We are going to move as quickly as possible," said White. "[We will] not move at a pace that would deprive us from hopefully securing the very best coach possible for this situation." 

While White spoke mostly in general terms in regard to Davie's successor, he did explicitly say that Notre Dame would "look for the very best head coach we can find. Somebody with head coaching experience, somebody with a strong track record of suc­cess." 
Previous head coaching experience was not an absolute criterion in the University's search for a 
see COACH/page 12 
WALKING AWAY 

Players say goodbye to Davie but keep focus on future ofIrish 
,, 
football

I 
I 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Sports Writer 

As soon as Bob Davie stepped off the podium following his farewell press conference, he walked directly to Grant Irons. The now-fired head coach embraced his fifth-year senior cap­tain. 
Irons was a part of every team Davie coached and said that he was shocked that his last season at Notre Dame would also be the last for Davie. 
"We were definitely caught off guard by the timing of it," Irons said. The players officially learned of Davie's firing in the team meeting room of the Stadium at 
1:30 p.m. Many, however, already knew Davie was fired by watching television and reading stories on the Internet. Quarterback Carlyle Holiday was woken up by a phone call telling him he would have a new coach in 2002. 
"It's a little bit shocking," Holiday said. 
"Things like that happen and we have to go on 
from there." 

None of the underclassmen intervim,ved by The Observer -Vontez Duff, Shane Walton, Holiday and Nick Setta -said they planned on transferring. They all said that it was unfortu­
.l nate that Davie had been fired but they would ) accept athletic director Kevin White's decision. , ' "\Ve have to continue to improve regardless 
' 
' 
~ ofwho the coach is," Holiday said. "We have to I get back to competing for the national champi­
f 
onship." 

To help find a new coach, three players have been named player representatives to help select the new coach -Walton, Gary Godsey 
see REACTIONS/page 12 

. Men's basketball at Indiana, Tuesday, 7 p.m. 

OBSERVER
. SMC basketball at Goshen, Wednesday, 7 pm.
SPORTS

> online 
. Women's basketball at Purdue, Thursday, 7 p.m.AT AGLANCE . ND Swimming, Notre Dame Invitational, Thursday http://www.nd.edu/~observer 
· Davie Fired 

. 
Coaching Candidates, p. 18 

. 
Assistant Coaches, p. 12 

. 
In White's Words, p. 7 


Advice from a coach 
When Bob Davie said his last words to the Notre Dame football media and walked off the podium, I followed him. I didn't really have any more questions to ask him. For 
three years I 

have asked him plenty of questions while I covered the Notre Dame football team. 
I walked quickly to catch up with 
Mike Connolly him as he · walked through the Sport'>
Outside 
Heritage Hall
Looking In 
back to the 
oflice he will 
soon vacate. \Vhen I fin.ally caught up to him in the dark stairway leading down to the football oflicc, Ijust wanted to tell him something. 
I shook his hand said, "Thank you Coach." 
I wasn't really sure ·what kind of response I would get from him. I had been a harsh critic of his coaching regime in the past. I called for him to be fired after the loss to Texas A&M and The Observer had oflicially called for him to resign in an editorial on Friday. 
Davie could have, and probably should have, kept walking and been bitter about my treatment of him in the past. But Davie didn't keep walking. He stopped, smiled back and me and said "Thank you." 
He thanked me for being a tough reporter and said he thought I had a big future ahead of me in sports journalism. But he also issued me a warning. He said that I had to avoid becoming cynical and sarcastic. He said that I had to be tough but never mean-spirited. Ile reminded me to always treat people respect­fully. 
I've learned a lot as a sports jour­nalist at Notre Dame. I can cover a game. I can recognize good ideas for features. I know how to conduct an interview. But in that stairway in the Joyce Center, Davie taught me perhaps my most important lesson: If I want to be a great journalist, I need to be more like Bob Davie. 
Throughout his eight years at Notre Dame, Davie has been the definition of class and integrity . Through all the abuse he receives from fans, Internet sites and reporters, he never lashed out. Ile never acted spitefully. He did his job the best he could. In the end, that wasn't good enough, but no one can say that Davie didn't do his best. 
see CONNOLLY/page 12 


O
THE 

Monday, December 3, 200 I BSERVER Notre Dame 24, Purdue 16 
By KATIE McVOY Associate Sports Editor 
WEST LAFAYETTE. Ind. 

· Bob DaviP surnnwd up Notre Danw's 
play against Purdue on Saturday \VhPn lw 
said Notrn Damp \Von tlw same way the 
team \Von nine games last ymu -by 
making th1~ big plays. 
In (>() minut1~s of play, tlw Irish olfonse 
only 1wttNI half as many yards as tlw 
Boil1\rmak1\r's offense. 1(,2 yards com­
pared to :~:12. But a 9(>-yard kick-off 
return and a 29-yard intnrception return, 
both f'or touchdowns, gave Notre Dame a 
"\\'1• won tonight likP we won nirw 
ganrns last yPar. t\Xactly how we \Von 
thPm," tlw fornwr !mad coach said fol­
lowing Saturday's ganw. "It rnmindmi me 
a lot of last ynar. y\'e'rn tlw same team, 
wp'n, tlw sanrn coadws we were a year 
ago. Tlwr.-art\ no surprisns." 
Earlv in the sPcond half, Purdue kicker 
Tra.vi~ Dorsch hit a 27-yard field goal, 
bringing the Boilnrmakers close <\nough 
to takP tlw lead. 10-<J. 
But tlw Irish spPcial t1\ams rnspondt>d by finding a spark it hasn't had all season -an PxplosivP run-back. VontPz Duff caught Dorsch's kir.k-off at tlw four-yard litw and PscapPd a tarkll' to run 9(> yards f'or tlw first spPcial tP,lllls touchdown of' tlw SPHSOll. 
"I foll lik(' I had a l<'nl f'or it. We have a grPal syslPm," Duff said. ·•1t fods good. I want to givn it back to the otlwr IO guys." 
In total, spnrial tnams grablwd 19(, yards on kick-off returns, including a 4]­yard rPturn by David GivPns, and 22­yards 011 punt n•turns. 
On Pu rd u,, 's first possession of tlw fourth quartPr. tlw Irish sProndary joirn'd tlw sp<'cial ll'ams Pxplosion with a big play of its o\v11. Jason Bc-ckstrom pid..ed off KylP Orton's pass at tlw 2')-yard lilw and rt'tunwd it for a touchdown that put tlw Irish up 24-9. It was lkckstrom's first intPITPplion of' tlw sPason and only the st•cmul tinw this yPar that Notn' Dami' has inl<•n-PptPd and rPtunwd tlw ball for 
a SC(>rP. 
"\-\'p'n, looking to makP big plays," d1•l'PnsivP ba('k Shant• \\'alton said. "Big plays turn tlw ganw around and that ltlw inlPrcPptionl right tlwri• was a big mo11w11t um rhangl', a big swing in tlw ganw. 
Tlw dc>l'P11st' forc<•d thrt•t! otlwr tunwv<'rs in tlw ganw. ch•nying Purd1w tl1r11P mon• scoring opportunitiPs. In tlu• final s1•c·onds of' tlw ganw cornPrhark Clifford .l<'IT<•rson grabhr~d his sncond int<•rc1•ption of tlu• night, destroying PurcluP·s. hop('s of' a last minute scorP and clinching tlw Irish victory. 
"It's kind of ironic." strong safety Ch•n Earl said of' Jnlforson, who has strugglPd all sl'ason. "I If• goi~s out his last ganw \Vith two picks ... IIt~ kept battling." 
Jefl'Prson intcrcPptPd Orton earlier in the fourth quarter. In the second quarter, Tonv VVPavcr forced a Purdue fumblP on tlw i~oilrrmak<~r 4(>-yard line. 
"WP know w,~ have the potential to pull togt\tlwr. Pspecially on the defense and trying to play close to tlw ganrn," Early said. "Most of the game we did that. \,Ve playPd wPII, both tlw dcfnnsive linn and thP s1!condary." 

TIM KACMARrrhe Observer 

Freshman tailback jumps over the Irish line in Notre Dame's 24-18 victory against Purdue. Grant carried the ball 19 
times for 77 yards and scored his first career touchdown. 
I n tlw fi n a I min u t cs of' th n gamc , Purdue madP an attPmpt at a fow of' its own dynamic plays. \Vith eight minutes left, Purdue put together a drive that started at their 17-yard line and finished in the Notr<\ Dame end zone. Orton, who threw for 258 yards, complctnd a pass to Tim Stratton bringing the score to 24-15. Dorsch missed the extra point, forcing Purdue to score twice for the win. 
Following a 31-yard field goal, the Boilermakers were within six, but Jefferson's interception in the final quar­ter finished off the Purdue scoring drive. 
The dynamic plays helped out an Irish offense that had trouble moving the ball 

all night. Quarterback Carlyle lloliday, who had 82 yards of' total offense. only passed for 31 yards on seven passes, the longest of' which was six yards. 
"Special teams helped us out a lot," I loliday said. "Last year it was a big fac­tor in our season. Today it helped us out a lot." 
Freshman tailback Ryan Grant led the Irish rushing attack, covering 77 yards on 19 carries. Grant, who was questionable because of an elbow injury, rushed for his first touchdown on a 14-yard run on Notre Dame's first possession of the sec­ond quarter that put the Irish up 7-3. 
'Tm grateful things worked out," Grant 
said. "\Ve got the 'VV', I got to run the ball." 
Senior Terrance Howard, who was slat­ed to start the game due to injuries to senior Tony Fisher and junior Julius Jones, only carried the ball twice for three yards. 
Purdue opened the scoring with a 50­yard field goal five minutes into the first quarter. Dorsch added another three points to the Purdue score with four min­utes left in the half to bring the Boilermakers within one at halftime. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 

player of the game Clifford Jefferson  quote of the game  stat of the game  
The senior cornerback intercepted two passes in the fourth quarter to save the Irish victory. The intercep­tions were the first two ofhis career. Two years ago he promised he would intercept two passes against Purdue -but he didn't specify which Purdue game.  "These seniors wanted to make sure that everyone knew this team was not going to quit. .. Greg Mattison Notre Dame defensive coordinator  96 yards Vontez Duffreturned a third­quarter kick 96 yards for Notre Dame ·s first special teams touchdown ofthe season.  

·-·-··-····--·--· 

,,,,_
,t..,'-'? '._ . 
page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Monday, December 3, 2001 
report card 
B 
quarterbacks: Holiday completed nearly half of his passes but gained just 31 yards through the air. However. he 
also ran for 51 yards on the ground. 

8-
running backs: With Jones and Fisher injured and Itoward ineffective, Grant had 77 yards on tlw ground and a touchdown. but his fourth-quarter fumble nealy cost the Irish the gam<~. 
B 
receivers: Hunter was Holiday's go to 
receiver all night. Givens also made 
some tough catches. 
offensive line: The Irish rushing game

C+never really got on track but. the the pass protection was OK. They only 
• allowed one sack. 

defensive line: Hilliard, \Veaver andA Campbell all had sacks for the Irish. They were a big reason ·why Purdue gained only 74 yards on the ground. 
B+ 
linebackers: Harrison and Watson each made six tackles but the injured Boiman was largely ineffective. 
Watson also broke up a pass. 
secondary: They got beat a couple of 

A 
times but overall the Irish defensive 
backs dominantcd the Purdue passing 
game. Earl had the best game of his earner and Jefferson made the first intnrceptions of his earner. 

special teams: Dufrs 96-yard kickA+ return was the big play the Irish have missed all year. Setta was robbed on his missed field goal. 
A 
coaching: Davie left the Irish with a victory. He went out on top. 
3.44 
overall: Notre Dame found a way to win. It wasn't pretty but it was a victory. 
adding up the numbers 
consecutive seasons in which Purdue 
s 

has qualified for a bowl -all of Tiller's seasons at Purdue 
5 0 yards on Dorch's field goal in first quarter -tying his career high 
yards on Setta's field goal in the 
4 7 

third quarter -tying his career high 
68,750 
attendance for 
Saturday's game -aseason high 

career field goals for Dorsch -a 
6 6 

Big 10 record 
2 
interceptions returned for touchdowns by the Irish in 2001. Beckstrom and Watson each had one. 
games played in front of 2s6 
Woodworth Press Box. 
Purdue will replace the press box on Tuesday. 
1 
dog scrotums nailed to a tree outside Ross Ade Stadium. We are not making this up. 
IRISH INSIGHT 


WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. 
One question left Irish defensive coordinator Greg Mattison speech­less Saturday. 
How do you say goodbye to these Irish seniors? 
The strong man's eyes filled with tears. He drew a deep breath, pursed his lips tightly together and couldn't answer. There were no words to describe the bond between Mattison and his seniors who played their last game. 
Lost within the questions about Bob Davie's last game was acknowledgement that this was the last game for the heart and soul of this football team. 
Grant Irons will never wear the blue and gold again. 
Rocky Boiman will never remove his helmet and hold it up to the student section. 
Javin Hunter will never make a clutch catch on third down to keep an Irish drive alive. 
"You never really think about it until it's here, until last night, you never thought that guys like Grant Irons, Anthony Weaver and Rocky Boiman aren't going to be here next year," junior linebacker Courtney Watson said. "They are the captains and the people who are the leaders of this team." 
These seniors played injured. They played sick. They played when there was nothing to play for but pride. And in their last game, 

they brought home a victory. 

"In the past when we have gone out with a loss, it kind of gave-the off-season a sore note," Boiman said. ''But to go out with a victory, especially with the way the season has gone, it feels good." 
After the Stanford game, Weaver said that losing the game hurt but what hurt the most was not being able to get a victory for his team­mates. Weaver is considered a top­10 NFL draft pick by ESPN. He· has a long football future ahead of him. But all he really wanted was to get a win for his teammates. He want­ed their hard work to result in a victory. 
"Those kids all year, that [defen­sive] front has played their hearts out." Mattison said. "That's because of the leadership of a guy like To·ny Weaver. They followed his leadership and played their hearts out." 
They played their hearts out because they really are a family. A lot of people talk about a family atmosphere in different clubs or organizations. But for this Notre Dame football team, that family is real. 
"I can't even tell you how many times I've cried thinking that this was going to be my last game with these guys," Weaver said. "I love these guys. I would cut off my arm for these guys." 
There are four captains on this team -Boiman, Weaver, Irons and David Givens -but every senior on this team is a leader. Tyreo Harrison finished the game with a six tackles and a cast on his thumb. But those "bumps and bruises" like a hyper-extended thumb are worth it because the Irish brought home victory -the first season-ending victory the seniors have ever achieved. 
"It felt great because I know before the season, the seniors talked about how we never won out last game of the season," Terrance Howard said. "It felt good to go out there and get our last win of the season especially against a team that is going to a bowl." 
"I feel great right now," Weaver said. "I am just glad that I can get on this bus and ride back two hours with all these guys." 
Even much-criticized senior cor­nerback Clifford Jefferson went out with a bang Saturday. After years of boasting in interviews after practices and giving up touchdown on Saturdays, Jefferson finally got his predicted two interceptions. 
"I remember a couple of years ago I said I would average two picks a game and I guess that came true," Jefferson said with a smile. 
But this victory was bittersweet for the seniors. It was a victory but it was also their last. 
"It kinda hurts that I can't play with these guys any morn," Jefferson said. "These guys have been with me through all the thick and thin times. I basically grew up with these guys." 
Notre Dame will find a new head coach, but replacing these seniors and their leadership will be diffi­cult. They love Notre Dame. They love football. They will be missed. 
"It's been emotional. It's been a fun ride, I am just sorry it has to end," Weaver said. 
Contact Mike Connolly at Connolly.28@nd.edu. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Monday, December 3, 200 I 
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Irish secondary steps up in last game 
. Jefferson gets first interceptions of his career 
By JEFF BALTRUZAK 
AssiMJ!ll Spons Editor 
\VEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. 
~1 uch rim! ig,wd cornerb,tck Clifford .l(d'ferson's play in Saturday's ganw was a pnrfect microcosm of' tlrn secondarv's rolP in Saturday's game. · 
Jelforson gav<> up several long gains and was flagged for pass interference. But when it count­ed. Jefforson came up big with tlrn only two intnrceptions of his career in his final quarter in an Irish uniform, including the final Boilermakf~r flail Mary. 
"I think Thursday in practice I said 'Cliff. go g<~t a pick' and I gupss that camp tnw,'' said .lefforson. "I remember a couple of yPars ago I said I would aw~r­agP two pir ks a game and I gtwss that canrn true." 
It was roveng<' f'or a corner­back \vl10 Purdun had bem1 tnst­ing all day, sonwtimes success­fully. including a 25-yard catch by Boi!PrmakPr widPout John Sta1ul,\ford that was tlw knv play in a Purdtw drive leading to a fiPld goal in tlw second qual'l<'r. 
"I Jpfforson I k•~pt battling," said Irish safety Glnnn Earl. "I I<' was hanging tight and they wen• going at him and he knew that and he st<1pped up and mad<' tlw picks \vlwn it count­TIM KACMAR/The Observer ed." 

Irish defensive back Glenn Earl dives over Purdue tailback Montroll Lowe to sack quarterback Kyle Orton. Earl had two sacks, a 
Tlw Irish secondary gave up 
fumble recovery~ three tackles for a loss and 12 tackles.

258 yards on the day, but 
picked off three passes fron:: said Irish defensive coordinator Purdue quarterback Kyle Orton. Greg Mattison. "They've been Thn Irish wer,~ callnd for pass getting hung out to dry a lot ... inlPrfornncP twice and got away but they stepped up ... l~ndl for 
with somP questionable contact, them to do what they have done but made 32 tackles and had today shows that our corners ni1w passes defonsed in their and safeties have come a long most spirit1~d performance of way." 
the S(~ason. A long way indeed. The Irish 
But in the tHld, it was the big secondary had just eight inter­plays from the secondary, ceptions in 10 games entering including Jason Bnckstrom's 29-Saturday, and only 26 passes yard interception return for a broken up of 222 thrown at touchdown, that helped Notre them all year. Damn overcome a Purdue team Shane Walton. who con­that statistically dominated th<~ tributed four tackles and broke 
Irish. up a pair of passes, agreed with "They battled th•~ir butts off," his coordinator. 
"Our DBs took a challenge this game," said Walton. "We were looking to make big plays." 
The biggest play made by the Irish all afternoon would prove to be Beckstrom's interception return for touchdown. With the Irish up 17-9 and failing to move the ball on offense, Beckstrom anticipated Orten's sideline throw and ran untouched into the end zone to put Notre Dame up 24-9. 
"You can't think too much, You've got to just play and have some instinct." said Beckstrom, who also broke up another pass. 

AP poll  
team  record  points  
1  Miami (72)  11-0  1,800  
2  Tennessee  10-1  1,709  
3  Oregon  10-1  1,624  
4  Colorado  10-2  1,557  
5  Nebraska  11-1  1,468  
6  Florida  9-2  1,360  
7  Maryland  10-1  1,325  
8  Illinois  10-1  1,289  
9  BYU  12-0  1,245  
10  Texas  10-2  1,184  
11  Oklahoma  10-2  1,172  
12  Stanford  9-2  1,050  
13  Washington State  9-2  876  
14  South Carolina  8-3  754  
15  Virginia Tech  8-3  735  
16  Georgia  8-3  687  
17  Michigan  8-3  614  
18  Syracuse  9-3  546  
19  Fresno State  10-2  509  
20  Washington  8-3  499  
21  LSU  8-3  456  
22  Ohio State  7-4  272  
23  Louisville  10-2  216  
24  Florida State  7-4  148  
25  Toledo  9-2  102  

other teams receiving votes: Marshall 40, 
N.C. State 36, Auburn 26, Georgia Tech 25, Arkansas 24, Boston College 17, Iowa State 6, UCLA 6, Texas Tech 5, Texas A&M 4, Boise State 3, North Carolina 3, Louisiana Tech 2, Mississippi 2, USC 2, Bowling Green 1, Hawaii 1, NOTRE DAME 0 
scoring summary & stats 

scoring 1st  2nd  3rd  4th  Total  
Notre Dame  0  7  10  7  24  
Purdue  3  3  3  9  18  
team statistics  ND  Purdue  
first downs  10  22  
rushes-yards  40-131  33-74  
passing yards  31  258  
comp-att-int  7-15-0  8-23-1  
total return yards  211  80  
punts-yards  9-375  7-241  
fumbles-lost  2-1  1·1  
penalties-yards  11-94  10-64  
time of possession  27:26  32:34  
19-yd., 7-6 11 Oklahoma 10-2 915 


individual statistics passing 
ND -Holiday 7-15-0 Purdue -Orton 24-52-3 rushing 
ND -Grant 19-77, Holiday 19-51, Howard 2-3 Purdue -Lowe 12-54, Harris 8-22, Lougheed 1-17, Standeford 1-2, Orton 10·(·20) 
receiving ND -Hunter 3-16, Givens 2-8, Grant 2·7 Purdue -Standeford 10-118, Stratton 6-51, Stubblefield 5-80, Brown 1-7, Noel 1-6, Lowe 1-(-4) 
leading tacklers ND -Earl 12, Harrison 6, Weaver 6, Watson 6, Jefferson 5, Budinsczak 5, Duff 5, Walton 4, Hilliard 4 Purdue -Johnson 10, Odom 10, Phillips 6, Woodyard 5 

Beckstrom's big play that sealed the game for the Irish had its roots came earlier in the week, as the senior studied the Purdue offense closely in prepa­ration for Saturday. 
"I kind of noticed on film he had a tendency to stick with one receiver when he came up to the line," said Beckstrom. "So I just kind of watched his eyes and his shoulders." 
Earl also became well­acquainted with Orten, sacking the Purdue signal-caller twice. 
as a monster game, with 12 tackles and a fumble recovery to go with his pair of sacks. 
For a secondary that has had its ups and downs this year, to end the season with a win orchestrated in part with big defensive back plays was sweet. 
"We just stepped it up this game, that's what we've been trying to do every game," said \Nalton. "Just telling people, we've got one of the best secon­daries in the country." 
The junior safety. dogged by 
Contact Jeff Baltruzak at
injuries much of this season, 
baltruzak.2@nd.edu.
had what can only be described 
ESPN/USA Today Coaches poll 
scoring summary team record points 1st 1 Miami (59) 11-0 1,499 
2 Tennessee 10-1 1,432
Purdue -9:24 FG Dorsch 3 Oregon 10·1 1,358 50-yd.. 0-3 10-2 1,289
4 Nebraska 5 Colorado 11-1 1,257
2nd 

6 Florida 9-2 1,104
ND -11:21 

7 Maryland 10-1 1,080
Gran! 14-yd. run Sella kick, 7-3 8 BYU (1) 10·1 1,080 Purdue -:42 
8 Illinois 12·0 1,065 
FG Dorsch 

10 Texas 10·2 991
3rd 12 Stanford 9-2 817 ND-9:59 13 Washington State 9-2 763 FG Setta 
14 South Carolina 8-3 699 
47-yd., 10-6 

15 Michigan 8-3 596
Purdue -4:24 

FG Dorsch 16 Virginia Tech 8-3 553 27-yd., 10·9 17 Syracuse 8-3 458 ND -4:07 
18 Georgia 9-3 425
Dull 96-yd. kick return Sella kick, 17-9 19 Washington 10-2 420 20 LSU 8-3 397 
4th 

21 Fresno State 8-3 334 ND -13:49 
22 Louisville 7.4 223 
Beckstrom 

23 Ohio State 10-2 205
29-yd. lnl.-return Sella kick, 24-9 24 Florida State 7-4 164 Purdue -6:08 
25 Marshall 9-2 105 
Straton 12-yd. pass from Orton Dorsch kick, 24-15 other teams receiving votes: Toledo 58,
Purdue -1:26 

Arkansas 30, N.C. State 29, Auburn 24, Boston
FG Dorsch 31•yd., 24·18 College 22, Iowa State 15, Texas A&M 15, North Carolina 14, UCLA 6, Georgia Tech 5, Alabama 4, Clemson 4, Penn State 3, Utah 3, NOTRE DAME 0 
~~ 
,.., 
./' 
~ 


O
THE Notre Dame 24, Purdue 16 BSERVER Monday, December 3, 200 I 
t 
'\ 
I 
interception return for a touchdown. Notre Dame overcame 
another mediocre offensive performance. The victory gave Bob Davie his 35th -and last -win as Notre Dame's ht1ad coach. It also prevented the Irish f'rom winning less than five games in a season for the first time since 1963. 
. 
photos hy 
TIM KACMAR 

I I I I I I 
, 









