
Runnin' Again 
The Absurder takes a jab
With Crown Royal, Run-DMC's first studio 
The Absurder takes a farcical look at the 
Tuesday
release since the early r99os, the group 

campus scene. 
proves that it hasn't lost one bit ofits edge. 

The Absurder . pullout 
APRIL 3, 2001
Scene . page 11 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 115 
Picketers protest SMC's non-union contractors 
turn the job around, chose aBy MYRA McGRIFF 

unionized worker but I don't Saint Mary's Editor 
think they will do that. We do 
want to bring it to the public's 

Union organizers and work­attention and give something to ers began picketing Monday think about," said Mike Kruk, morning on Route 31 at Saint union organizer. Mary's two entrances. Steve Banahaski, a carpenter 
The picket came as a reac­of 10 years and a union car­tion to the start of ronstrurtion penter for five has tastAd both on the new edition to the main­worlds. ln the five years work­
tenance building by Majority ing as a non-unionized carpen­Building Company. ter. Banahaski struggled to find 
Saint Marv's contracted a job and wage security. His Majority Feb." 16th and since only way of securing a livable the ground breaking last wage rested in his ability to month, union organizers have negotiate. rallied against Saint Mary's "You had to negotiate your decision to use a non-union own wage with your employer contractor. with no job security and no 
Standing on picket lines, benefits," said Banahaski. union workers made it clear The unions are asking for the what they wanted the move­stability ofjob, wages and ben­ment to bring about. efits for the workers on sight. 
They wanted the picket to However, in the middle of the resonate action on behalf of the battle over union and non­Saint Mary's community and at union workers stands Majority 
large. Building, which lJartner Rick 
Workers like James Carter, a Slagal. describes as a merit third-year apprentice with shop. South Bend's carpenters union, During 28 years in business. want people to see that unions the family-run company has are offering workers and busi­practiced the philosophy of 
nesses something better. paying workers based on their 
"As far as wages go, the talent level. Working on such workers of Majority and the projects as the Center college are settling for less," Township Library, Majority said Carter. sees itself as a supporter of 
Workers and union organiz­workers rights. Cutting out ers alike want Saint Mary's to what they call the "middle recognize the picket as a sign man" of union hierarchy, 
of the action that should be ini­Majority believes it is fair to its 
tiated. Organizers think that employees. Saint Mary's should choose a Majority provides its workers new contractor or at least con­with paid vacation, paid per­sider choosing a union contrac­sonal days and an apprentice-tor in the future. 
"We would want them to see UNION/page 4 

ND students find remains in Appalachia 
with client files, plot records,

By MAUREEN SMITHE 
embalming tools and chemicals 

Associate News Editor 
and a refrigerator with rotted food. When the United Methodist While most students spent their Church recently bought the build­spring breaks relaxing in the sun­ing to turn it into a community out­shine of a tropical locale, one reach center, a major clean up and 
group of nine Notre Dame students rehab became necessary. and one from Saint Mary's spent "The house looked like the own­the week cleaning up an aban­ers closed up at 5 p.m. on a Friday doned funeral home in with the intent of returning on Charlestown. WPst Virginia. Monday morning, [but never did]," 
What was supposed to be just Perkins said. another Appalachia Seminar spon­Students spent the first day at sored by the Center for Social the home cleaning up the public Concerns quickly turned into a areas. The second day brought the week resembling a horror movie first surprise: the cremated as body parts and cremated remains of 19 bodies. Perkins said remains were found in the dark­everyone initially thought it was ened corners of the funeral home. just kitty litter or de-icer. 
"It was very strange," Notre "ln the back of my mind, I was Dame senior Brett Perkins said wondering if they were ashes. As about the funeral home. which had we went through more stuff we been suddenly abandoned more found canisters with the same than two years ago when the home stuff. I flipped one over and saw a no longer had a licensed label that said 'American embalmer. 
Left behind were cabinets iilled see REl\llAINS/page 4 

HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Victory buzz hits campus 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News Editor 
Sunday night the Notre Dame community watched the women's basketball team win the national championship game against Purdue in St. Louis. 
On Monday all it wanted to do was talk about it. 
"The atmosphere on campus was very exciting and positive. The mood today was a carry over from the excitement last night," sophomore Matt Smith said. 
"You could sense the enthusi­asm from everyone talking about it in class and on the quads today," Linda Melchor, also a sophomore, said. 
Smith was among a crowd of about 1,500 who welcomed the team back to campus around 
2:30 a.m. Monday at Main Circle. The students braved the early-morning cold while cheering and waving signs in celebration of the victory. 
The win set off an explosion in school pride -in female athletics in particular. 
Signs on residence halls and at the Joyce Center announced the newly acquired title and offered public testament to campus-wide support of the nation's top women's team. 
"This is an all-time high that I've seen for support of women's sports," Smith said. "I spoke to [sophomore guard] Alicia Ratay and told her the team had done a monumental thing," Smith said. 
As part of the team's banquet Sunday, the University will sponsor a pep rally open to the public at 3 p.m. at the Joyce Center. Sports information offi­cials said Monday that the event will include tournament game highlights and put on display the national champi­onship trophy. 
Brooke Norton, student body president, said the Office of the President will likely sponsor the pep rally in conjunction with the University. She said student government officials are optimistic that they can hold an event on behalf of the student body before Sunday. 
"I think a group should orga­nize something to show appre­ciation for the team's hard work and success," Melchor said. 
"Any chance we can, we'd like to show more support for the team," said Smith, presi­
see CHAMPS/page 4 


Tuesday, April 3, 2001 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 

The greatest gifts 
Oh, what a weekend. 
It all started for me at the "butt-crack of dawn" 
on Friday morning, my 20th birthday, when I 
helped set up the stage equipment for the G-Love 
concert. I had flashbacks to elementary school as 
I wore a name tag that read, 
"Bryan -AKA Birthday Bryan Kronk 
Boy," in hopes that my 
friends at SUB might recog­
nize it and wish me the Sports Copy 
obligatory Happy Birthday. Editor 
It worked. 
Friday night, I sat with my 
roommate and a close friend as our Fighting 
Irish women's basketball team took on 
Connecticut. Munching on Doritos and guzzling 
Mountain Dew after Mountain Dew, we watched 
in agony as the Irish fell behind by 16, only to 
make the biggest comeback in the 20-year histo­
ry of the women's Final Four. 
This might sound corny, but I knew all along 
that they would win. I really did. And they had 
to. After all, it was my birthday. 
Then, on Saturday, I held an informal gather­
ing in my room for some of my manager friends. 
As they started to arrive. they sang me a beauti­
ful rendition of Happy Birthday. 
Then there was a knock at my door. 
It opened, and about two dozen guys from my section, in the midst of competing in 23 sports in 14 minutes, took the time to provide me with their own raucous rendition of the tune. I laughed. 
Then, on Sunday night, I went over to LaFortune and joined about 200 of my closest friends in cheering on the Irish women again, this time in the national championship. I walked past the 1V trucks waiting outside. I don't think at that point I realized how momentous this occasion was. I soon did. 
While meeting with my management group at halftime, I felt a great sense of hope. I knew that these resilient Irish players could win, even though they were trailing the game by six points at halftime. We all sat with excited anticipation. 
Throughout the second half, we watched as Ruth Riley. Kelley Siemon. Niele Ivey, Alicia Ratay, and Ericka Haney kept the Irish well with­in striking distance. 
The game was ours. I could smell it. Then, with 5.8 seconds left in the game, I start­ed having flashbacks. 
2001 Big East tournament finals. Riley made one of two free throws to bring the Irish even with UConn. only to watch as Sue Bird drive the length ofthe court and sink the game-winning shot at the buzzer. 
But. luckily, this time the outcome was differ­ent. Katie Douglas' desperation shot for Purdue missed -barely -and the Irish emerged victo­rious. LaFortune exploded as the final buzzer sounded. I smiled and hugged strangers, oblivi­ous to the fact that I was now 20 years old, no longer a teenager. 
The weekend ended at about 2:30 Monday morning. About an hour earlier, my roommate and I walked to Main Circle and watched the Irish charter jet fly directly over campus. The party was about to begin. 
We stood along Notre Dame Avenue.just in front of the Morris Inn, and cheered as the team's bus pulled up in front ofus. The players took turns hoisting the championship trophy high into the South Bend night, and I took pictures. After all, you don't exactly win a national cham­pionship every day; I wanted to remember this forever 
I got the greatest gifts for my birthday. Not money, clothes or expensive toys, but friendship, joy, and most importantly, memories. Not bad for a guy with a bad memory. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Kiflin Turner Sam Derheimer Scott Brodfuehrer Chris Scocr Finn Pressly Graphics Sports Katie McKenna Brian Burke 
Production Bryan Kronk 
Kathleen O'Brien 

Viewpoint 
Lab Tech Kurr Bogaard Naomi Cordell 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except du.ring cx;a.m and V.tcation periods, The Observer is a member of[he Associa«d Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 

QUOTES OF THE WEEK  
'Tm just the most  "She was absolutely  ''He'd say, 'Now  "We really have  
obnoxious, irritating  terrific. She played  coach, I'm wearing  three guys. I think  
punk. I'm so cocky  like the best player  this red sweater for  it's kind ofremark- 
about my faith  in the country ... She's  you.  We're going to  able, that they 're  
because it's so real  a quality kid and it  beat your ass, but  justfreshmen and  
to me.,,  shows in every  rm wearing this red  we can watch them  
Matt Smith, star of MTV's  ,,dimension.  sweater for you. ,,,  throw like that. ,,  
..Real World," addressing  Vanderbilt coach Jim Foster's  Bob Knight on fonner athletic  Football coach Bob Davie on  
sbldents at No Greater Love.  comments on Ruth Riley.  director Moose Krause.  next year's quarterback.  

Compiled from U-Wire reports
OUTSIDE THE DOME 

Brown University withdraws Horowitz invite 
PROVIDENCE, R.I.  ply bringing him to campus may result  
David Horowitz was scheduled to  in violent protests."  
speak at Brown University Wednesday,  "We didn't want to be responsible  
but the College Republicans rescinded  for inviting him because of the poten­ 
its invitation to the conservative author  tial for violence," said Abby McEwen  
for fear that violence would break out.  '02, vice president of the College  
"We thought that it would be very  Republicans. "Many people, especially  
productive and educational to have  in the minority community, would  
him come to have a debate on cam­ have felt threatened by his presence  
pus," said Todd Auwarter '01, chair of  on campus."  
the Rhode Island Federation of College  "Inviting him may have placed stu­ 
Republicans. "We thought it would  dents' safety at risk, and since we  
send a strong message for debate and  couldn't accept that, we rescinded his  
dialogue and would hold Horowitz  formal approval from the University  invitation," Auwarter said.  
accountable for his ideas."  for the debate, which included security  On his Web site, Horowitz said his  
The Republicans had planned on a  arrangements, Auwarter said.  visit to Brown, which was supposed to  
debate, tentatively scheduled for this  "We wanted to have an intellectual  be part of his "freedom tour," was  
Wednesday, between Horowitz and  debate, but many people have deep  "cancelled by Brown."  
Cliff Montiero, president of the  and intense emotional reactions to  "It is incorrect to say that Brown  
Providence chapter of the NMCP.  Horowitz and his ideas," Auwarter  University as an entity cancelled it,"  
The group had started to work out  said. "There is the possibility that sim- Auwarter said.  

UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CAROLINA 
Trustees question president's plans 
University of South Carolina President John Palms' possible bid for a U.S. Senate seat has surprised and incensed some university trustees. Trustees continued late last week to question Palms' now very public consid­eration of the issue. Most of them also said Palms should resign the moment he decides whether he will run for Senate. "The day he is going to run is the day he ought to step down," said trustee Edward Floyd, a contributor to the U.S. Senate campaign of U.S. Rep. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C. "The timing is absolutely awful," Floyd said. "We've got to deal with budget cuts. We have a lot of unfilled posts. We need to be involved with the state to see if we can get more funding. All of that affects the university, and we are uncertain about our leader." Palms has said he would decide to run by May 1, but trustees want his decision at an April 12 meeting where the issue will be discussed. That meeting had been scheduled for other business. Chairman of the board Mack Whittle, also a Graham contributor, was also criti­cal of Palms' move. 
PRl~CETON UNIVERSITY 
Professor cited for sex harassment 
Karen Bates, a Princeton University graduate stu­dent, filed a complaint in N.J. Superior Court on March 22, accusing architecture professor Georges Teyssot of sexual harassment. Teyssot said Saturday that he "did not sexually harass Ms. Karen Bates. Her allegations ... are denied." He declined to comment further, citing that the matter is in litigation. Bates is currently a graduate student in the School of Architecture. Her complaint states that the alleged harassment began when she moved from the compar­ative literature department to the architecture school in 1997. Bates claims that she decided to switch departments at Teyssot's suggestion. Bates attended ARC 548: Selected Architects of the 18th and 19th Century taught by Teyssot in 1996. "At that time," reads the complaint, "defendant Teyssot aggressively began an attempt to persuade the plaintiff to enroll in the Ph.D. program at the School of Architecture, and he repeatedly insisted that only his program fit plain­titrs intellectual objectives and goals. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
S Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWealher9 forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather'" forecast for noon, Tuesday, April 3. 
"'r""'r" ~ 
COI.D WARM STATIONARY 

®,_....© D D IT:J D D . 
High l.oW Shower• Rain r..1orma Fhml•• Snow Ice sunny Pl. Cloudy Ck>udy via Aa.,odaled Prea 
Atlanta 74 60 Las Vagas 68 48 Portland 40 25 Baltimore 55 36 Memphis 76 63 Sacramento 61 48 Boston 41 32 Milwaukee 45 34 St. Louis 59 38 Chicago 51 38 New York 50 36 Tampa 80 64 Houston 83 70 Philadelphia 57 36 Washington, DC 56 39 

0 2001 Acc:uW••th•r. Inc. 

Tuesday, April 3, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
HUMAN RIGHTS IN FOCUS 

Lecture tackles hip-hop, feminism 


By EMILY W'ELSH News Writer 
Joan Morgan. a leading feminist and journalist, visit­ed Saint Mary's Monday to discuss hip-hop culture, an art form that includes break dancing and graffiti art. 
According to Morgan, hip­hop culture has developed its own cultural identity and has had an affect on relation­ships. 
Morgan, senior editor for Essence Magazine, is a part of a new wave of women and men that believe hip-hop cul­ture's infiltration of the media promotes sexism. This realization is causing many black women to work toward abolishing the sexi.sm and stereotypes encouraged by the hip-hop culture. 
"They must reject the his­torical tendency of women to stand behind the downtrod­den black male. Women must assume the responsibilities of their lives so they can become self-empowered," said Morgan. 
Morgan's lecture was an extension of her exploration of hip-hop's influence on black women in her book, "When Chickenheads Come Home to Roost: My Life as a Hip-Hop Feminist." 
"Bringing Joan Morgan to campus is encouraging the women at this campus to confront the objectifying of our bodies that occurs in music videos, magazines, and 
media in general that we are bombarded with. Look at what the women in videos wear and how they act and the image that is relaying to us," said April Davis, Assistant Director of Multicultural Affairs. 
Morgan's informal lecture started a discussion of rela­tionships on Saint Mary's campus. During the lecture, she shared excerpts from her novel and then invited ques­tions. 
First, Morgan read the sec­tion of her book deal­violent images and words found in hip-hop music and videos. She sees the lyrics of these rappers as the only key into the black man's mind and heart. 
In analyzing the words of the hip-hop artists, Morgan found that the men hide their pain and anger behind words like "hoes and bitches." She said that these young men cannot love the women in their lives until they learn to love themselves. 
The black-on-black vio­
lence cannot 
be curbed 

ing with her "Feminism and hip-hop until the anger redefinition in young black
are not at war. It is my
of feminism men's lives
community [ of
for today's turns into b l a c k journalists] that is at love. women, war. The hip-hop which states listener has to that women hear the reali­must stop Joan Morgan ty of the lyrics defining feminist and journalist "instead of 
themselves by the oppressions of sexism and racism that they live with everyday. Community was a reoccurring theme in the dis­cussion of redefining hip­hop's relationship with women and feminism. 
"Feminism and hip-hop are not at war. It is my communi­ty [of journalists] that is at war," said Morgan. 
As a journalist covering hip-hop artists, Morgan said she has an appreciation for the artists that she inter­views, but she said that does not reconcile the degrading, 
just shaking 
their booty to the beat." 
According to Morgan, her concern is one that is shared by many African Americans in the United States but is not acted upon, evident by the financial prosperity of the current hip-hop culture. 
"Joan Morgan possesses a perspective on the lives of blacks today that many peo­ple agree with but do not voice because they are forced to assimilate to the popular culture of the majority," said Apryl Underwood, a sopho­more at Saint Mary's. 

we want YOU to get in gear with SUB! 
The Samples 

stepan center thursday, april 5 at 9pm · 
$1 O, tix on sale NOW at lafun box office 
Acousticafe 
lafortune thursday, 9pm 

,,., riding Forrester·. 
debartolo 101 · \:;:t>,l~p~ay, 10.30pm ,yy, spnfa,nd 1o.30pm •.. $2 at the door 
thursday, 10.30pm · ·friday and saturday, 8pm·""d 10.30pm $2 atthe door 
Easter Cookie Decorating. 
apdl 10 

www.nd.edu/~sub · 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, April 3, 2001 
. 
ReIDains 
continued from page 1 
Crematoria! Supply,'" Perkins said. Students promptly called tlrn police to come and collect the mmains. 
Then, a few days later, police W<ffC called again when the group began cleaning out the embalming room. While going through the room's closet, two Notre Dame sophomores found what looked to be a glass pickle jar. When they turned it over, they noticed a label that read," Collin's fetus." 
"One girl said that we just have lo be ready to get imm1\rsed in death," Perkins said." We were so surrounded by death that by the time we found all this stuff we all just 
Union 
continued from page I 
ship program. Encouraging workc!rs to use the apprentice­ship program through Associated Building Contractors, Majority hopes workers will horrn in on their talenL'i. 
"Our workers have a seven year rPLirement package that our workers if they choose to leave can roll over to where ever limy go wilh the interest," said Steve Slagal. 
In rcsponsp to the picketers. tho Anti-Sweatshop Task Force committee met with Keith Dnnnis. Director of finance to clarify tlrn contract Saint Mary's has with Majority and the pro­cedure used to chose the con­tractor. 
Dennis explained the reason for choosing a company like Majority had nothing to do with them being non-union but rather cost and sp(1cialty. 
"Thny were in the architectur­al budget and steel erections is a niche business that is predom­inately done by non-union con­tracto.rs." 
At least one bidding contrac­tor disputes the fact that Majority's bid was the only bid in range of the budget is debat­able. HG Christman, one of the 

ChaIDps 
continued from page 1 
dent of the Class of 2003. 
On Monday if the public was reveling in being part of the University's first-ever women's basketball title, then it was also trying to get their hands on tangible evidence of it. 
In addition to increased sales, inquiries about champi­onship merchandise poured into the Hammes Bookstore. according to Jim O'Connor, director of retail operations. 
"We started off with good business this morning," O'Connor said. "The really dramatic increase has been in the phone calls and e-mails from poople wanting to know about merchandise availabili­ty. There has been nationwide interest in sharing the success of the women's program." 
The bookstore sold out of several styles of T-shirts and sweatshirts Mondav. About 15 other items including pins, pennants, hats and other apparel are expected to go on sale today. 
became numb." 
But the fetus was not the end 
of it. Half an hour after that dis­
covery, students found a clear 
plastic bag with a preserved left 
arm from the elbow to the hand. 
Fingers were sticking out of the 
plastic, Perkins said. 
Overall, Perkins said the trip was a worthwhile experience, even if it offered some fright along with the feeling of doing a job well done. 
"It was kind of creepy at first, but then it became sad. These were people just like us with lives and friends and family. For all this time they were in limbo," Perkins said. 
As a result of the students' dis­coveries, new legislation in West Virginia requiring the. use of metal tags in cremated remains has been proposed. The police are considering opening an investigation. 
original bidding companies, 
claims the architectural budget 
was met in the first round of 
bids. 
On December 20th, Saint 
Mary's received the bid of four 
union contractors. After receiv­
ing the bids, Christman was told 
by an unnamed source that it 
had the job because they were 
under the half of million-dollar 
budget. Christman, a contractor 
that has done work for Saint 
Mary's in the past, including 
LeMans I Jail and the renovation 
of Regina Ilall, had no reason to 
think it would not start the job 
after receiving word. 
"We were told we had the job and we were told that we were in less than a half million. We were getting ready to start after Christmas," said Howard Emmons. 
Dennis did not disclose the figures of the first or second bid but <lid say that the first bids were not in the range of the architectural bid. 
Along with clarification on the contracting procedure, students wanted some guarantee that Saint Mary's would proceed in securing the wages of workers in the future building projects Saint Mary's has planned. 
They want the college to inquire into what contractors are paying their workers. However, Dennis did not say any measure was in the future. 

Tuesctay.,. April 
L/-::J.5 PM 
2 :I. 0/2 .l LI McKenna Hall 
Present::ect by t:he Inst:it:u-t:e ror La-t:ino St:ucties 
Logan receives aW'ard as publications earn top honors 
By MIKE CONNOLLY News Writer 

The Indiana Collegiate Press Association named Notre Dame senior Tim Logan the Brook Baker Collegiate Journalist of the Year at its awards banquet Saturday night. Logan served as News Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and In Focus Editor during his four years of work for The Observer. 
"The entry of Tim Logan stood out because of the depth of his passion for the news profession and the variety and enthusiasm he brings to each journalistic pursuit," wrote Kathy Lawrence, director of student publications at the University ofTexas at Austin, who judged the contest. 
Logan's creation of "In Focus," a special news sec­tion that examined Notre Dame/Saint Mary's rela­tions, student government and alcohol laws among others, was especially praised by the judge. 
"Ilis work with young writers on the section and the scope of community service it porform.s likely will con­tinue for years to come, thanks to Tim's hard work," Lawrence wrote. Logan is the first Notre Dame stu­dent to win the award which bas been given by !CPA for three years. The award is named for a Vicenncs University student who was murdered in 1997. 
In the overall publications competition, Dome, Scholastic and Juggler all took home first place honors in yearbook, news magazine and literary magazim• categories. respectively. The Observer placed third after winning top honors for six consocutive years. 

Cuban Ca-t:holics in Mia,ni in -the :J.. 960s 
Coping JtVi-t:h Exile: 
Gerald Poyo 
Hist::orian St::. Mary's Universit::y San Ant::onio 
Visit:ing Fellow Inst::it:ut::e ror 

ATION 
Monday, April 3, 200 l COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Woman executed for murder: A 
South African woman convicted of murdering her best friend was hanged in Botswana Saturday, a prison official said Monday. Mariette Bosch was hanged at Gaborone's maximum security prison, said prison com­missioner Joseph Orebotse. Neither her family nor the media learned about the execution until Monday. 
Bomb kills 2 in Taiwan: A man threw a firebomb at a school on Monday, killing the principal and a 9-year-ol<l boy, and injuring a dozen other children as fire engulfed their classrooms. police said. Students had to run up to the top 11oor of the four-story building and be evacuated by firefighters with ladders because the fire escape was blocked, TVBS television reported. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Russian official to be extradited: A 
high-ranking Russian official wanted in Switzerland on charges he allegedly laun­dered multimillion-dollar kickbacks has given up his fight to keep from being extradited from the United States. Attorneys for Pavel Borodin -who has been in U.S. custody since January-informed a U.S. magistrate of their client's decision Monday during a court hear­ing in Brooklyn. 
Spanish king visits Florida: Spanish King Juan Carlos on Sunday visited the nation's oldest city and urged residents to remember its history as a former Spanish set­tlement. St. Augustine was founded by Spanish explorer Pedro Menendez in 1565, 42 years before the English colony at Jamestown. Va., and 55 years before the Pilgrims landed on Plymouth Rock in Massachusetts. The king was accompanied by Queen Sofia. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
State implements visitation rules: 
Divorced parents who have to deal with the matter of child visitation have struggled in the past because each county in Indiana sets its own rules. That's about to change. As of Monday, statewide "parenting time guide lines" will be used by all Indiana judges, lawyers and mediators in divorce and pater­nity cases. "I believe the guidelines do a bet­ter job than the county guidelines of making sure both parents are involved in their chil­dren's lives," said Caryl Bowers, president of the Monroe County Bar Association. 
Market Watch April 2 

Dow 
9,777.93 -100.85 
Composite

]~ Same: 
Volume: 
236 
NIA 

AMEX:  854.86  -22.18  
NASDAQ:  1,782.97  -57.29  
NYSE:  589.29  -6.37  
S&P 500:  1,145.87  -14.46  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -4.76 -0.75 15.06 NASDAQ 100 INDX (QQQ) -4.47 -1.75 37.40 
AGERESYSTEMS-A(AGR/A)-12.94 -0.80 5.38 WORLDCOM INC (WCOM) +0.01 +.002 18.69 INTEL CORP (INTC) -1.95 -0.51 25.80 
China denies U.S. contact request 
Ambassador Joseph Prueher. ence. "The Chinese so far have given
Associaied I'ress 

There was no indication if Chinese us no explanation for holding this 
WASHINGTON experts were trying to examine the crew." 
The U.S. ambassador to China said EP-3's sophisticated monitoring equip­A U.S. military spokesman in Monday that American officials were ment. American officials have insisted Hawaii, Army Lt. Col. Stephen Barger, being denied contact with the crew of that the Chinese have no right to enter refused to say whether the crew was a U.S. Navy surveHlance plane, more the aircraft. Prueher said China had supposed to destroy their equipment than a day after a mid-air collision no legal basis to hold the 24 crew to keep it from falling into foreign forced it to land in China. He called members. He complained that top hands. the delay "inexplicable and unaccept­Chinese officials were not taking part The U.S. plane was standing empty able." in official contacts. at the military airfield where it landed 
Three American diplomats had "It is inexplicable and unacceptable in the town of Lingshui. said a Chinese arrived on Hainan island and were and of grave concern to the most sailor contacted by telephone at an making their way to an air base where senior leaders in the United States adjacent naval facility. the EP-3 plane landed Sunday after government that the air crew has The sailor, who refused to give his colliding with a Chinese fighter jet been held incommunicado for over 32 name, said the crew had been moved over the South China Sea, said hours," Prueher said at a news confer-to a military guesthouse. 
YUGOSLAVIA 


AFP Photo The Serbian Ministry of the Interior displays arms seized from the home of former prime minister Slobodan Milosevic. Police arrested Milosevic on charges of corruption. 
Police seize arms from Milosevic villa 
while police continue Milosevic had vowed not that indicted him in 1999
Associated Presa 

investigations into allega­to be taken alive, and for atrocities his forces 
BELGRADE tions of criminal conspira­brandished a pistol during allegedly committed 
Police seized a vast cache cy and diverting millions of negotiations that led to his against ethnic Albanians in of weapons from the man­dollars of state funds. surrender. His daughter Kosovo. sion that Slobodan After Milosevic was Mirjana fired pistol shots Milosevic's crackdown in Milosevic transformed into whisked away to after her father agreed to Kosovo triggered a 78-day a fortress before authori­Belgrade's Central Prison, give up, officials said. NATO bombing campaign ties arrested the former police entered his com­It was a bizarre end to and the province's president on corruption pound in the tree-lined the political history of a takeover by the United charges stemming from his Dedinje district and said leader who presided over Nations and NATO. 13-year rule. they found a major arse­the dismemberment of Yugoslav authorities face 
Milosevic, in jail Sunday nal, including two armored Yugoslavia, triggering and intense international pres­after surrendering before personnel carriers, 30 losing four Balkan wars sure to extradite Milosevic dawn to end a 26•hour automatic weapons. three that left his country in to the tribunal in The standoff, maintained his heavy machine guns. an political, economic and Hague, Netherlands. The innocence. He told an anti-tank grenade launch­spiritual ruin. Bush administration is investigative judge that he er. 2 3 pistols of varying Milosevic surrendered expected to declare was guilty of "not a single calibers, 30 rifle grenades, only after government Monday whether steps count from the charge two cases of hand negotiators assured him taken to cooperate with the sheet." grenades and several cases that he would not he hand­court so far are enough to 
The judge ordered him of machine-gun clips and ed over immediately to the avoid a cutoff of $50 mil­held for at least 30 days other ammunition. U.N. war crimes tribunal lion in aid to Yugoslavia. 

Tue'sday, April 3, 2001' 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 

Students push for exam study day 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY Assistant News Editor 
Student body president Michelle Nagle and vice­
president Kristen Matha met with Teresa Marcy, 
~istant to vice_ pn'4"iident and dean of faculty, and 
Susan Vanek, director of first year of studies to dis­
cuss possible solutions to alle-.iate the stress Saint 
Mary's students experience in the week before final 
exams. 
. "M"i. Marcy ru1d Ms. Vanek were very supportive of our effort to try to alleviate some ofthP stress peo­ple arn foeling during that week before exams," said Matha. "However, our idea to have a study day was denied by the faculty because they don't feel that one day will make a dilference, so we are trying to find other possib!P solutions." 
Faculty have expressed concern that tl1ey need to continue to teach new material dwing the last week because it i.s an essential part of the education they arc trying to provide students, said Matha. 
"We tried to come at them from every possible direction with possible solutions and alternatives " said Nagle. "They said the faculty recognize th.at s~­dents are under a lot of stress in tl1at last week. Any "Any solution that would submit a budget to BOG seeking fund­

solution that would be adopted, they said, would be adopted, they said, ing. 

Before the group could be grantedhave to have thr. support of 
would have to have the 

recognition, it will have to presentthf> student bodv." 
support oftlze student their club's constitution to demon­
Possible solutions include strate that it had been rewritten to

considering a proposal to body." 

make the club a joint venture
reduce tlm number of cred­
Michelle Nagle 

between Saint Mary's and Notre
its a student needs to gradu­

Saint Mary's student president Dame.
ate from 128 to 120 credits. This would mean that a stu­dent would not have to have two years where she must carry six classes each semester, said Matha. 
Oth~r solutions mentioned included having repre­sentatives from Student Academic Council sit in on department meetings to be sure that tests, papers and projects on syllabi within a department do not overlap. 
In other BOG news: 
. 
The existence of the Trumper Computer Center as the only 24-hour space on campus for studying is being examined. "Stapleton Lounge and other places are being used now but they are poorly lit," said Ma~a. "We want to check into keeping Haggar open until 2 a.m. or having the Media Center in the base­ment of the library open longer." 

. 
Th_e Board is ~gto establish a date with College president Marilou Eldred to use her home for a retreat next fall. The group would have lunch at her 



home, conduct retreat activities and then spend ilie 
afternoon with "fun" events such as swimming in 
Eldred's in-ground pool. 
"Dr. Eldred has said her house would be available to any group for retreat purposes," said Nagle. "More inlportantly, I told Dr. Eldred that I tll.in.k BOG using her house for a retreat is making a statement that there is open communication between the stu­dent body and administrators. And tltis would show that this open communication is beginning with stu­dent leaders on mmpus." 
. The Board was asked by Katie Camosy, a member ofthe Notre Dame Student Players, for the club to be recognized at Saint Mary's. 
Carnosy decided to seek recognition upon learning that.th~ club could host a production in O'Laughlin Auditonum free of charge if tl1e Notre Dame Student Players were a recognized club at Saint Mary's. 
"I wanted Saint Mary's people to audition for the musical I want to put on before I found out that ifwe had club recognition here it would mean using O'Laughlin for free," said Camosy. "There is so much talent for theater here at Saint Mary's." 
If recognized as a club, the group would be allowed to advertise at Saint Mary's, use the facilities free of charge and 
Board members voiced concern 
. ov~r approving the chili, particularly smce ilie Board Just approved a Saint Mary's inlpro­visational group called Thespians Unplugged."I don't want to detract from Thespians Unplugged and who they are targeting," said Nagle. 
The group tabled discussion on approving ilie club and will invite members of Thespians Unp~1:1gged to speak at the next Board meeting. Additional concerns from the Board included the club's commitment to maintaining the connection between Saint Mary's students and the club after the production. 
"If we approve the chm, there are ways we can hold them accounta!Jle for making sure tllat Saint Mary's women are being given an opportunity to participate in the club," said Nagle. 
"For example, 
we can require that they set up a table at Acthities 
Night." 
ri?STUDENT TICKET 
rt? !'SIC [i?HOSTEL CARD 
[i?BACKPACK 
l:i?PASSPORT [i? EURA I LPASS 
'IOU ll\l SO l\tAD'I f01\ tUI\OPl. 
[IIIJ!IQTravel', 
AMERICA'S LEADER IN STUDENT 
1·800-2C0UNCIL 
OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK 
WWW.COUNCILTRAVEL.COM 
TRAVEL 

Arizona fans riot after NCM tournament loss 
Associated Press 
TUCSON, Ariz. 
Disappointed Arizona fans over­turned at least two cars, tore down street signs and set small fires Monday night following the Wildcats' loss in the NCAA men's basketball tournament. 
About 1,500 red-clad fans had gathered at the McKale Center to watch the NCAA championship game on 1V from Minneapolis, and surrounding sportc; bars and restau­rants were jammed. 
Police reported only a handful of arresl"i before the game ended, and Assistant Police Chief Roberto VJ!la,;enor reported four post-game arrests along a major avenue near tlie campus. 
A campus police officer, Joe Mayerle, said that "people are still just venting -it's nothing like 1997," when the Wtldcatc; won tho national title. 
Several hundred people jamming one intersection near the campus were met by about 50 officers in riot gear while a helicopter circled ovor­head, but Vtllac;enor and observers there said officers weren't moving in on crowds unless there were some overwhelming reason to do so . 
Police had cordoned off the entire campus by closing streel"i to vehicu­lar traffic, a precaution to avoid hav­ing motorists trapped as some wore during the 1997 postgarne action. 
Vtlla-;enor said there were several small fires along the main avenue, where he estimated about 2 000 people milled about, and that there four other small fires at a student housing area about four miles 
away. 

i---------------------------­
. 
WEEKEND 
RACQUETBALL 
TOURNAMENT 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY APRIL 6 & APRIL 7 JOYCE CENTER 
Men's & Women's Divisions Bring Your Own Racquet Balls Will be Provided 
Register in Advance at ,G,.,.3/..,...=..=. Deadline: Thursday, April 5 $3.00 Fee 
Congratulations Irish! 
NCAA National Chan1pions 
We salute your hard work and dedication. 
~ 


NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You can bank on us 

to be better 219/239-6611 • www.ndfcu.org 
ludependent ofthe University 


Tuesday, April 3, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7, 
United Nations criticizes U.S. human rights record 
Korea and Cuba on Monday other countries. 
Associated Press 
accused the United States of ignor­"Every year the United States ing its own human rights viola­accuses other countries of serious GENEVA tions, especially among the poor problems. But it is well known that 
U.N. representatives of North and minorities, even as it judges the most serious violator of human 

Moreau Seminary Sweet Sixteen Bookstore 2000 Finalists 
Holy Cross: Play Hard, Pray Harder 
ANSWER ~ THECALL '<!::/ 

www.nd.edu/-vocation 
.. Think differenc 
-

On Display
NOW! 


PowerBook G4 

The world's first portable supercomputer. 
• 1" thick • 5.3 pounds 

• 
Slot loading DVD-ROM 

• 
5-hour battery life 

• 
15.2" mega-wide screen 

• 
Titanium case 


• 
400 or 500MHz G4 Processor with Velocity Engine 

• 
iMovie & iTunes for digital movies and music 



I 

Solutions Genter 

Room 112 Computing Center, 219-631-7477
I 

http://www.nd.edu/-solutlon Email: Solution@nd.edu 
© 2000 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple logo, Mac, and PowerBook are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. Apple Store and "Think different" are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. 
rights is the United States," said North Korea's delegate, Jo Sung Ju, speaking at the U.N. Human Rights Commission's annual meet• ing. 
He cited the use of the death penalty against minors and wide­spread poverty in the United States. 
"Racial discrimination, child abuse, killing, trafficking, drug abuse and police brutality are tak­ing place as a usual practice," he said in a rare speech by a North Korean diplomat to the 53-nation body. "Rape and murder cormnit­ted by U.S. troops abroad are a serious problem." 
Jo lashed out following a state­ment Friday by U.S. chief delegate Shirin Tahir-Kheli, in which she described North Korea as one of the "world's most serious human rights violators." 
Tahir-Kheli accused North Korea's communist government of using a "draconian" legal code to deny all basic rights, like freedom of opinion, assembly or worship. 
The U.S. delegate also con­demned serious abuses in Cuba and said suppression in China was worsening. 
On Monday, Cuban Ambassador Carlos Amat Fores accused the United States of sponsoring U.N. resolutions critical of Cuba merely to justify Washington's own "geno­cidal policy of aggression and the economic blockade it has imposed for more than 40 years." 
"There is a massive and flagrant denial of human rights to tens of millions of people within its own borders," he declared, adding that about 15 percent of the U.S. popu­lation lived below the poverty line and were excluded from proper education and health care. 
Cuba is routinely criticized by the U.N. commission for suppress­ing democratic freedoms. Havana hopes to beat the U.S.-backed res­olution this year with support from Latin America and some vote abstentions from Europe. 
In recent years, the commission also has passed critical resolutions on Iran, Iraq, Myanmar, Sudan and Afghanistan under a proce­dure whereby a special investiga­tor is appointed to monitor the sit­uation. 
In the heavily politicized debates, China has managed to use its muscle with other develop­ing nations to block critical resolu­tions for the past decade, and will likely head off a U.S.-sponsored resolution again this year. 
China's ambassador Zonghuai Qiao accused the United States of double standards in a speech Friday. 
"The U.S. concern for human rights is a sham, what it really practices is power politics," he said. "The U.S. advocacy for humanity is a fake. what it really pursues is hegemonism." 

We want you... 00 the ~ (~11111..1..l~N(;J~ IJ l~I'l,Nl~SS 'l1l~1l)I! 
Auditions for Step, Hi/lo and Toning 
.instructors will be h~ld April II.. 
t.'H~.,'.~ r,.,:;Ji~l\§, r."•:·,<.>·"· ,.;l~tdi±
N:·~!-'..t.A.. 1t/~\: ,'ft ~:~~-.~ ~'f..' ~?f:!/&t .~ ~tjl'iJc ~s. .~ •~~~ ~ .i• itt•'i~. ~-.,;; .,~~~ 
}1,~ 

IIEllE'S WIIA'l1 YOU NEE)) '110 1)0: 
I. llE'l'UllN A COtJPI..Ji'I1EI) APPtlCA'l'ION 
'l'O llECSllOll.'l'S HY AlllUt (,. APPS ARE AVAII.,AHI.E IN 'l'IIE USIU:~. 
2. SE'I' UP AN IN'l'Eln7IE1f 1fl1'11,IENNIE PIIIJ.J.IPS@ 0:JI-5U05. 
Univgrgify Of Notre Dama Global Health lnifiativo Blood Drivo 
Dates, Monda_y,April 2, 2001 
Tuesda9,April},200I 
11mc: I 0:00 am -+:}O pm 

Location: LaFortune Student Center 5allroom 
Appointments can be made b_y e-mailing Garrett 
Zoeller at ;z;oeller. 1 @nd.edu. 
Appointments arc scheduled every 1, minutes and it takes about one hour tor the entire proces5, 

South Bend Medical Foundation, Inc. 
Central Blood Bank 


VIEWPOINT 
~HE page 8 v~SERVER Tuesday, April 3, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Somh Dining Hall. Norr• Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
NIST. MANAGING EDITOR  
Kerry Smirh  

NhWS EDITOR• Jason Mcfarlcy VIEWPOINT EDITOR: !'at McElwee 
SPORTS EDITOR, Noah Amstadter ScENE EDITOR, Amanda Greco SAim MARis EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR, l'eter Richardson 
AnVF.RTISING MANAGER, Kimberly Springer Ao DESIGN MANAGER, Chris Avila 
SYSTI::MS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvd Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTllOLI.ER: Kevin Ryan 
GRAPHICS EDITOR• K.itie McKcnna 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE Ml.NAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 F.o: ........................................................ 631-6927 Af>VUTISING ..................................... 631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AsS'r. ME....................631-454 l BUSINESS Omcr........................................ 631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observcr.obsnews. l@nd.edu V!EWP0INT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MAR\"s............................................. 63I-4324 
obscrver.smc. l@nd.edu PH0T0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER 0NUNE 
Visit our Web site at hnp:llobsmlt!r.nd.uiu for daily updates of cunpus ni=ws, •Ports, fcarures and opinion colllmns, as well as cartoons, revic,ws and breaking news from ,he Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for po licics 
onlinc features for spe­
and rates ofprint ads 
cial cunpus ccverage 
ucruvcs ro search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
scalf 
POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial conrem, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration of either insricution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reJ>ortcd as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encourage<!, 1.crrcrs IO the Editor musr be signed and musr include contact information. 
Qw,r,o,u rt'f,4rdinx Obserwr policitt should b, dir;ct­ed. to Editor ;,. ChiefM ilu Co11nolly. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Alumni praise champions 
Cheering with style 
Congratulations to Coach McGraw and the 
entire women's basketball team. It was a joy 
to watch. Best wishes to all. 
Congratulations to the rest of the students 
on campus. You showed the rest of the coun­
try that celebrations don't have to be violent 
or destructive. Continue to show your sup­
port for all the Fighting Irish teams with your 
cheers. 
Go Irish! 
Doug Weglarz dos• of '89 April 2, 2001 

Championship shows that 
women belong 
All of us who watched your inspiring performance this sea­son are gratified you have achieved your ultimate goal: A National Championship. We are so pleased and delighted all your hard work has paid off. 
Your achievement is particu­larly poignant for me: I matricu­lated at Notre Dame in 1972 ­the first year females were admitted to the University. They were a tough breed, determined to resist the efforts of some who believed they didn't "belong" at Notre Dame. 
I'm delighted to see, after almost 30 years have passed, that Notre Dame women are still the same "tough cookies" I remember. 
Bill Wilder 

A classy victory 
Congratulations to Coach McGraw, Ruth Riley and the womens' basketball team on their national championship. Congratulations too to the Notre Dame stu­dent body for the classy way in which they celebrated the victory {unlike Purdue). Well done! 
James Brennan 
class of '89 Aprit 2, 2001 

Bringing transition to co-education full circle 
Imagine a prototype raven-haired green-eyed Fighting Irish hero with a good Celtic name like Riley -and her first name is Huth! 
Undoubtedly, the Notre Dame students of today are still reveling in the victory, basking in the afterglow of a championship -as are we alumni from sea to shining sea and beyond. 
Speaking as a member of the eighth class of women to attend the University, however. the championship meant much, much more than that to me. Back in the early 1980's. men outnumbered women on campus by over a three to one margin in enrollment. and by far greater proportions in int1uence and tradition. 
I will never forget the Notre Dame Club Freshman Send-Off Picnic I attended the summer before I started at Notre Dame. An alumni from the class of 1953 looked me straight in the eye and told me point-blank that the deci­sion to become co-ed was "the worst mistake Notre Dame had ever made." Nice send-off, huh? Sadly to say. his were not the only derogatory com­
ments l was to hear. Over the next four years. there were professors, security 
' ) 
I 

officers, alumni -and 
even fellow students ­who openly echoed the refrain. Our joke back 
then was that the only adjustments Notre Dame had made to wel­come women were a few alterations to the plumbing system. 
Thus was it a grand and glorious moment for me to sit in my living 
room, watching the Irish women play to a packed house, cheered on by the 
band and cheerleaders and hordes of students and alumni waving the 

"Play Like A Champion" sign -gaining the respect and adoration once reserved exclusively for those in pads and helmets. J'll bet even my send-off buddy from the class of '53 was jumping up and down in his living room, embracing the new champions as his own. Although they may not know it, Ruth Riley, Niele Ivey and crew have 
accomplished something far greater than just a sporting championship. They have brought the University's transi­tion to co-education full circle. as women have become not only a part of Notre Dame's enrollment but of its rich and glorious tradi­tions. 
It certainly brought tears to this Domer's eyes. Thank you Lady Irish! 
Diane Dirkers Jones class of '84 Washingcon. MO April 2, 200 I 
DILBERT 
E WHICH ASSIGN­<! 0 
0•
MENT IS THE @ 
~
HIGHE$T 
.,,• PRIORITI? =
• 
..0 
• 
..
IS IT THE TOTALLY 
!:. 
,;

WORTHLESS ON£ OR 
; 
u

THE OTHER TOTALL'Y 
'ii 
...C
WORTHLESS 
"' 
ONE? 

SCOTT ADAMS 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Somebody's got to win and somebody's got to lose -I believe in letting the other guys lose." 
Pete Rose 
baseball player 
I HOPE I'M EMPOWERED TO MAKE THAT DECISION . 

HOPE IS A DOUBLE­
EDGED 
SWORD . 

IEWPOINT 
O
THE Tuesday, April 3, 2001 BSERVER page 9 
GUEST COLUMN 

What's good for corporations isn't nece~ly what's good for us 
AUSTIN, Tex. 

In the early 1900's, the conventional wisdom was "what's good for General Motors is good for America." After the auto-maker was convicted of orchestrat­ing the demise of public transportation 
systems in dozens of ·  
cities across the  Travis Metcalfe  
United States, some  
people began to  
doubt whether  
General Motors (GM)  Daily Texan  
really had the public  
interest in mind.  

Despite a horrific record of placing prof­it above all other considerations, multi­national corporations like GM still want the American public to believe that what's good for big business is good for every­one. The latest pill that they would have us swallow is the so-called Free Trade Area of the Americas (FTAA). which would essentially expand NAFTA to cover the entire Western Hemisphere. Business leaders and politicians will meet in Quebec in mid-April to finalize the details of the plan. Citizen activists from around the world will be there to greet them. 
Consumer advocate and former Green Party presidential candidate Ralph Nader refers to the FTM as "NAFTA on steroids." Public Citizen, one of the many watchdog groups founded by Nader, recently released a report card evaluating the first five years of NAFTA to see how the reality ofthe trade agreement com­pared to the rhetoric used to rally public support for it in the early 1990's. The results were astounding. In every catego­ry, from job creation and trade balance to environmental protection and consumer safety, the first five years ofNAFTA have been a disaster. Only one aspect of the agreement lived up to its promise corpo­rate profits soared to record levels. 
Adam Smith, who introduced the theory of free market economics in his 1776 book "The Wealth of Nations," would roll over in his grave ifhe heard about NAFfA and the FTAA. Smith points out quite explicitly in his book that in a truly free market huge profits are impossible because competition ensures the lowest price for consumers. He also notes that free markets cannot exist between nations with significantly different stan­dards of living because the incentives for exploitation of the weaker economy are too strong. 
In spite of its doublespeak name, the Free Trade Area of the Americas has nothing to do with free trade. It has everything to do with protectionism for corporate profits at the expense of con­cerns like public health and fair wages. 
Under the FTM, U.S.-style protection of patents will be extended to all of Central and South America. In practice, this will prevent generic drug manufacturers in Brazil from producing medications to treat HIV and providing them at market prices. Instead, the U.S. corporations that own the patents on these drugs will have a protected monopoly and the price of the drugs will be inflated by several thousand percent above the manufacturing costs. Patents were intended to encourage inno­vation by allowing inventors to recoup their research and development costs before competition would be allowed. With the grossly inflated prices drug com­panies charge their customers it only takes a few months to recover these costs but their monopolies continue for many more years. 
Workers on both sides of the border have suffered under NAFTA, and the FTAA would only spread the misery. In the United States, the rate of illegal threats by corporations to close their plants and relocate in Mexico has more than tripled since NAFTA was adopted. They successfully use this tactic during union organizing drives to keep wages artificially low even while worker produc­tivity is increasing dramatically. At the same time in Mexico, wages fell 29 per­cent in the first few years of NAFTA while productivity increased 36 percent. Labor organizers in both countries know that resisting FTAA is not about job protec­tionism in either country. They are united against it because they know it would be bad for all workers. 
Corporations argue that globalization is inevitable and those who resist are just anti-progress. But many opponents are not against globalization itself, they are against corporate control. Organizations like Global Exchange have proposed detailed alternatives based on fair trade, human rights and democracy rather than "ftee" trade, corporate rights and plutoc­racy. 
What's good for corporations has been demonstrably bad for the rest of us. The time to educate yourself about the FTAA is now, before the corporate spin doctors unleash their propaganda in full force. 
This article first appeared in the University ofTexas-Austin newspaper, The Daily Texan, on April 2, 2001, and is reprinted here courtesy ofU-WIRE. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
What's in your germplasm? 
same and much lamented fate of the Dodo bird, her assumptions lacks a foundation in either biology or anthropology. It is these I wish to challenge. (I'll leave it to others to comment on the decen­cy of such an analogy in the first place and the shallow assump­tion that the main, or at least most pertinent, value of human lives in the debate of cloning is their status as "cultural arti­facts with aesthetic function.") 
First of all. her concept of 
o.

race is untenable. While the 
. 

world has long embraced the ideas of white, black and yel­low. among others, as distinct biological groups within the human species, these denomina­tions bear no significance from a genetic standpoint. Indeed, the genetic difference between any given person of European descent and that of a person ofAfrican descent would be no greater than a comparison between two Europeans or between two Africans. In other words, I bear as much genetic dissimilarity to other white people as I do to any given black person. For this reason, the American Association of Anthropology has rightfully discredited any decisive notion of "race." Any 
genetic origin) are so superficial and account for so small a percentage of our genetic makeup that choosing to create distinc­tion based on them amounts as sensi­ble a gesture as does segregating automobiles by the sound of their horn alone and nothing else. 
Ok, so it's a cultural distinc­ 
tion. Why not preserve the  
germplasm of a certain culture?  
C  Well, this is equally nonsensi­cal. Instinct is that which we do  
,  by merit of our genetic con­ 
struction. Birds flying, building  
0  ·  - nests and searching for worms are instinctual, not cultural  
habits. ''Culture," in any proper  
sense of the word, denotes that  

• which is transmitted by learning and not by biology. Watching foot­ball on Sundays, speaking in English and eating chips and drinking beer are all cultural or learned traits. ~~~J~~,c'\,/ I don't think anyone would challenge that we are disposed by our nature. by biolo­
gy, to participate in any of these. This should be obvious. It follows then that preserving the germplasm of, for example, a Chilean, no more promises to preserve a deep love for Pablo Neruda, avocados, Catholicism and la Roja (their soccer team) than my genes would be assured to produce an English speaking New York Mets fan. Better said, the traits of Chilean, American or any other culture are not encompassed in genetic make-up. Were they to be, it would by definition not be culture at all but instinctual. Suggesting, therefore, the desire to preserve the "cultural artifacts" and "aesthetic function" of Kalahari Bushmen by creating a stockpile of "germplasm" makes absolutely no sense. Were such an offspring to be made from such material, we could only expect a fairly random, dark-skinned, human; but never that she or he would hunt and gather, speak "Kung" lan­guage or have any disposition to the culture once endowed by his or her biological ancestors. 
It is my hope, like the author's, that we not lose to extinction such cultures. While Susan adopts a utilitarian argument whereby the value of any given people is reduced to their status as "rare and beautiful" or "aes­thetic(ly)" pleasing, ours should stem from elsewhere: the call to respect the dignity of all human life. Be it Bushmen or deathrow inmates, as Catholics we recog­nize that human life is an objective, and not just subjec­tive, good. It is the vacancy of any consideration of this nature that makes Sprecher's article mildly offensive. Were human cloning to be, as she suggest, "beneficial," much more than its aesthetic utility would need to be considered. The emotive arguments and compassion she elicits, however forceful they may be, fail in themselves to be "open-minded" to such consideration; the very charge which, to us, she issues. 
Anthony Pagliarini junior Dillon Hall April 2, 2001 
In response to yesterday's article entitled "Benefits of Cloning People," I would like to point out several key fac­tual errors that were posited by Susan Sprecher. 
Although she presents a thoroughly emotive argument about the need to preserve the Bushmen from the such divisions we choose to make are more assuredly important cultural distinctions, but not biological ones. While we are correcting in noticing that, yes, in general, Tutsis are taller than Peruvians, and that Norwegians 
are lighter than Nigerians, these distinctions (of 
r-------------------------------------------------­
C<tnec 

ALBUM REVIEW 

Live From Mars captures all that is Ben Harper 
By TOM OGORZALEK 
Scene Music Criric 
Over the past live years. Ben Harper has established himself as one of the most charismatic and soulful musi­cians to make an appearance on pop radio. 
Perhaps he's the only one, yes? At any rate, he has developed a large and loyal following for which he shows appreciation by Louring 300 days a year with shows that are often described as "cool" and "nice," not to mention "orgasmic." 
The newest project for Harper and his band, The Innocent Criminals, is a compilation of these large shows. llarper listened to hundreds oflive recordings before set­tling on this ultimate show, a two•disc affair that sets out to replicate one of his shows and falls short only on olfac­tory ambiance -which can always be provided by listen­ers themselves. 
The two discs rnally serve as two separate sets. Just as he does in his shows, l larper plays with the Criminals in the first set, moving from the raucous and raw rock 'n' roll of "Glory and Consequence" to the smooth seduction of his cover of Marvin Gaye's "Sexual Healing." The radio-friendly bubble-gum pop favorite "Steal My Kisses" is countered by the more memorable and explicitly counter-cul­tural "Bum One Down." 


While the loud and sometimes violent chords of electric Ben and his buddies burn with fun and pack a solid political punch at times, it is in the second set. where Harper appears solo on his acoustic slide guitar, that the real soulfulness ofhis artistry is allowed to shine through. 
Harper is adamant about retaining ties to his folk roots, and he does it well here. He has selected several tracks from Welcome to the Cruel World, his debut album that few noticed until his later success with Fight for Your Mind. It was with these early albums that he neared the divine through music as an acoustic won­derkid. 
Indeed, he does it again here. 
bringing the rowdy crowds of the 
first disc to near silence as he expounds on the "Power of the Gospel," ih which the real convincing is done not with his lyrics but with the simple haunting melody of his gui­tar. 
Harper does well to mix his mournful and solemn love songs and ballads, like "Roses from My Friends" and "Another Lonely Day" with his angry or pained political anthems, "Excuse Me Mr." and "Like a King," the lat­ter of which he blends into an interpretation of Maya Angelou's poem "I Will Rise." 
Most artists would not be able to pull this off without sounding like shallow pompous windbags trying to be poetic through mimic-

In his first-ever live release, Ben Harper has compiled a two disc experience emulating just what he is capable of perfonning live. 
ry. As the final track on a set that has revealed Harper's lyrical and verbal abilities in the most intimate of American forms, Angelou's words lit well. 
Harper's fans now abound on college campuses across the country, and there is no scarcity of his albums in their portfolios. But this is his first live release, and there is material here that cannot be found legally recorded elsewhere -covers of Gaye and Led Zeppelin for instance -and renditions of his own work that give these songs a new personality and a new medium of interpretation. 
This is the kind of concert that can be listened to over and over without hearing every piece of it, a rare show that can make you dance, cry or drift off into bleary-eyed oblivion in the loving arms ofyour "special lady." 
ALBUM REVIEW 

Tortoise sets Standards for indie rock, pop scenes 

armchair electronica-like rhythm, "Eros" might very well have been the reason why England's Warp Records, home of electronic stalwarts like Aphex Twin, Squarepusher, and Autechre, decided to sign the group to their label for release overseas. 
The second half of the follow­ing track, "Benway," is just plain funny, conjuring up images of early '80s freeze-frame sitcom character introductions a la "Three's Company." "Firefly'' broods in stark contrast as a brief and properly placed come• down track to preclude "Sixpack," an echo of 1997's incredibly make-outable TNT. the band's previous album. The muffied wah-bass and beats of "Eden 2" savor of Beastie Boys beneath a few free jazz guitar riffs that could have been straight out of Miles Davis' Bitches Brew, while "Monica" follows as the album's most 
By CHRIS YUNT 
Scene Music Critic 

Perhaps the title of Tortoise's latest album. Standards, opti­mistically suggests the future of popular music to come. Or maybe it's somewhat of a band mission statement as Tortoise continues to push the envelope of musical innovation to just within reach of anyone open to something exciting and different. 
Whatever the title is though, it certainly isn't a statement about how the album fits into the state of today's MTV-driven popular culture of teeny-bopping Carson Daly legionnaires. Or is it? 
Indeed, much to the delight of pretentious anti-radio post-rock mongers who scoff at the thought of an album selling more than 900 copies, Standards challenges, redefines, decon-


Standards, the new LP. from Tortoise, defies both classification and justification alike. Combining jazz, rock, electronic and just about everything in between, Standards is an eccentric masterpiece. 
structs, slices and dices conven­tion, cataloguing the results into just 45 compact minutes of musical protein shake. But chin up, Britney and Backstreet lovers. because this group of anywhere from four to seven band members led by produc­er/drummer/vibes player John McEntire is also delightfully accessible. 
Well, if by accessible, one means a hearty lyricless melange of jazz. electronic, Kraut-rock, dub, classical mini­malism, ambient, prog-rock, jam band and kitchen sink-rock. Then yes, Tortoise is quite accessible. 
It is no question that the band is riddled with musical influ­ences ranging from A Tribe Called Quest to its own Chicago free jazz progeny. Isotope 217. Hut successfully bringing them all together on an at least mildly cohesive record hasn't always seemed as effortless as Standards suggests. Simply put, the album is brilliant. 
Standards opens with a bang. The hailstorm of percussion and bass in "Seneca" cleanses tho musical palate like Drano-fla• vored sorbet, properly leaving the mind an uncluttered and receptive tabula rasa for absorb­ing the more easily digestible majority of the album. The duel­ing bass lines that kick in mid­way through "Eros" just can't get any smoother, transforming any casual listener into nothing but head-bobs and smiles. With its expressively staccato and impressive and beautifully con­structed track. Incredibly mature and mildly erotic, "Monica" blossoms with catchy complex rhythms. melodic hooks, some delightful imperfec­tions beneath heavily-vocoded. :.mintelligible voices and a great bass line at the end. 

The album climaxes with the quick-paced and adventurous "Blackjack," and finally chills out in a pleasant denouement with the final two tracks. "Eden l" and "Speakeasy." which con­tain nothing more profound than some courtesy pillow talk. 
Too subtle to be rock, too pre­meditated to be jazz and with too many members in the band to be considered electronic, Tortoise successfully dodges classification and judgment. leaving the music to simply speak for itself. As their best album, Standards is moving, ele­gant, down-to-earth and quite possibly clairvoyant. 
It can be done 

Big Money Saved 
Remember the old saying that you can't drink 
Sunday

Big money was saved at 
a gallon ofmilk in a half-hour? Think again. 

Menard's this weekend. 
News . page 7 

World & Nation . page 5 
APRIL 1, 
2001 


The Quasi-Annual, Fictional Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Air leak prompts evacuation of Writing Center 
By FRED SMITH 
News Writer 
A catastrophic air leak forced the evacuation of the University Writing Center yesterday, amid fears that the inflatable, drag­on-shaped facility would col­lapse. 
Onlookers watched in horror as students remained trapped in the netting of the center, unable to operate the Velcro­sealed emergency exit. 
Senior Katie MacLaverty was inside the center at the time of the leak. 
"I was in there, bouncing around and working on a semi­nar paper, when I heard this weird hissing sound. I looked at my friend Katie [Reilly], and I was like, 'Do you smell air?'" she said. "It was really scary." 
B o t h "When we find out that stu­dents might be in jeopardy, such in last week's gas leak behind O'Shaughnessy Hall, we like to wait a while before evacuating them." 
Once students were evacuat­ed, surrounding buildings were evacuated as well. 
Architects of the facility issued a statement later that day stating that the risk of an air leak is implicitly understood when constructing any building out of vinyl. 
"We sat down last August with the University planning committee and reviewed the risks of building an inflatable Writing Center," said Lloyd Fisk, founder of Fisk and Grady Design Associates in Elkhart. "They said that the inflatable dragon head was too cute to resist, though." 
The dragon 


Onlookers watch on in horror as students flee yesterday's horrific air leak at the Notre Dame Writing Center (above). Pictured at right is the Writing Center in happier, inflated times. 
• 
Photos By: NATE GAGENKAST 


Mac Laverty head mea­
"I looked at my friend

and Reilly sures nearly
Katie [Reilly], and I was

said there four feet in 
was an imme­like, 'Do you smell air?' length, and 
diate rush for features a
It was really scary." 

the exit. long ribbon of 
"When we red vinyl to heard there Katie Maclaverty simulate a was an air senior frantically
leak, every­one flipped out. I was doing a somersault and working on my thesis, and then all of the sudden, every­one is like running for the one exit," Reilly said. "Apparently, though, they knew about the air leak way before they evacu­ated us." 
University officials were first made aware of the leak at 2:05 p.m., but calls for evacuation were not issued for another two hours. 
"That's our new policy," said Sandra Paulson, assistant director of facilities operation. 
wagging 
tongue. 
"It really is adorable," Fisk added. "Especially when there's lots of people bouncing around inside. He [the dragon] looks all angry." 
Authorities are unsure what may have caused the leak, but several theories have yet to be ruled out. 
"Those people in the Coleman-Morse Center were jealous of our beaufiful new facility," said Writing Center director Dermot O'Connor. "I wouldn't be surprised if they sabotaged us." 


Absurder Staff Report 
Senior accounting major Mike Kowalski stunned the campus community by singing along to ABBA's 1978 hit "Dancing Queen," at the Welsh Family Hall Formal Saturday. 
"So, everything was going fine, right, and they just played Lady in Red, which was so cute because I was wearing my roommate's red dress with the strappy top, and then Dancing Queen comes on, and all of the sudden Mike starts singing along with the words," said former girlfriend Theresa May. "It was so embarrass­ing." 
Witnesses said that they first noticed something was amiss 
Student discloses knowledge of lyrics to 'Dancing Queen' 
time. "I was pretty drunk, guess," he said. 
That excuse, however, is not good enough for May, who ended their three-year rela­tionship later that evening. 
"I don't care how drunk he says he was. Ten shots of Stoli doesn't suddenly teach you the lyrics to Swedish disco hits," she said. "I just wish I could have those three years back. I feel like I've been with a stranger." 
Friends say that Kowalski spent a semester in London, where it is possible that he may have come into contact with Swedes and their infec­tious pop. 
"Mike came back from 
see SCANDAL/page 2 

"/ don't care how drunk he says he was. Ten shots ofStoli doesn't suddenly teach you the lyrics to Swedish disco hits. " 
Theresa May funner girtfriend 

when Kowalski performed a slow, steady pointing motion around the dance floor. 
"At first, I was like, what's that guy pointing at, but then I listened to the words of the song, and I was like, wow, that kid knows the word to Dancing Queen," said sopho­more Emily Hayes. 
Kowalski claimed he wasn't aware of his actions at the 
Sunday, April I, 200 I
page 2 The Abmrder . INSIDE 
JUST SKIP THIS 
Moving into the garage 
Many people leave Notre Dame for graduate schools, high-paying jobs or the excitement of the big city. That's fine for them. But if you want to find me, knock on the aluminum siding 
of my parents' garage.  
Many of my friends have laughed, but I know there's  Olivia B'Server  
nothing wrong with living in  
my parents' garage. "You  
mean, OVER the garage,  News Writer  
right?" they would ask me.  
No ­ you'd be surprised  
how nice that place is once  

you move all the tools to one corner and mop 
up the oil. I can just imagine how cute my 
Bengal Bouts poster will look next to my dad's 
Craftsman power saw! 
And all those hooks on my new plywood walls will be just great for belt hooks and my Notre Dame degree. 
Some people think that Arts and Letters majors have a really tough time finding jobs, but that's simply not true. Offers for my future have been pouring in and it's all I could do to fight the headhunters o!T. 
Just the other day a letter came telling me I could be a winner -instantly! Just goes to show you don't need a finance degree to draw in the big bucks. 
But after months of rejecting firm after firm and company after company, the perfect opportunity shined before me at my local Tan Tan Bo Ban. 
My new boss Barbi said that most new employees just get entry level positions clean­ing otT sweat from the beds and selling bronz­ing gel. But since I took that one business class sophomore year and I went to Cancun for spring break all four years, she promoted me right to tanning bed technician manager. 
And I'll probably be so warm from my man­agerial position supervising the dark flesh industry that I won't notice how cold my new digs will get at night. In fact, I embrace the fresh, outdoorsy air and motor oil perfume per­meating my new home. 
And I figure those big blue dice from my grandfather's old Cadillac could finally get some use again as decorations. I mean, they're a baby blue and match perfectly with my bed sheets and a picture frame that has a photo of my friends and I drinking on a beach in Mexico. Who knew that not only was 1soaking in the rays (and alcohol) but also investing in my future? 
As graduation nears, many students have been freaking out about where their Notre Dame education will take them. But frankly, I'm not worried. Because I know I have the sweetest little 20' by 20' space waiting for me at home. 
The only problem I see arising is if my mom or dad might need to park their cars and I'm sleeping, or getting dressed or they forget that my bed is on the left side of the garage and I have oily tire marks when I get home from the Tan Tan. But it's all worth it for my very own retractable sun wall, plush with terrace. Some may call it a driveway; I call it a patio. 
Sometimes l worry that I'll never make it after graduation; I freak out thinking of moving back home. But I mean, I love cars and I have a great tan. And while some close-minded people may call it a carport, I call it home. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Absurder. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
Editors The Cuban Missile Crisis The Pride of the South Shore 
Assistant Editors Drinks Tabasco Like Water Journalist of the Year Fun & Excitement Wouldn'cllBcCoolifWeDidThis!? 
The Ab•urdcr i, published once a year, or sornctime. nor •I all, No,hing in this rhing is rcmordy accurare, !JO don'r bother sending us emails. This goes double for all our fans in rhe stale peni1<n1i>ry 

THIS WEEK IN ND/SMC HISTORY 
Students perform "Ankle Monologues" March 30, 1858 
Saint Mary's College was scandalized by the perfor­mance of Agatha Buchanan's controversial dramatic work, "The Ankle Monologues." College president Sister Gertrude Thomas More expressed concern about the subject matter. "We feel this kind of licentious behavior is not in accordance with the mission of the College," she said. "Our Student Handbook explicitly prohibits mentioning things of that nature. Ankles, elbows, necks -these are all things that should never be discussed in a public setting." 
Architects hail Stepan Center April 3, 1965 
Architects from around the world arrived on campus yesterday to marvel at the latest addition to the Notre Dame skyline. Stepan Center, a large dome .enclosing a concrete floor, has been described as a crowning archi­tectural achievement, though no one is quite sure what its purpose is. "I guess it's for concerts. but l'm not sure what performer would want to even go inside," said one member of Student Activities. Like most contemporary architecture, the Stepan Center was scheduled to be obsolete approximately 10 minutes later. 
RELATIVELY NEAR THE DOME 
Tissue industry prepares for room picks 
With room picks just weeks away, America's tissue industry has been working overtime to meet anticipated demand. The annual event touches off an emotional powder keg of cry­ing, sulking and backstabbing, lasting through the last weeks of the semes­ter, and well into the fall. 
Experts predict the center of this year's activity will focus around an emotionally unstable group of eight best friends in Pangborn Hall, where tensions have already begun to rise dramatically. 
"We wanted to get this quad, but then Katie [Mickelson] said that she couldn't live with Emily {Noble]. and so she totally ditched us to live with Katie [Sobieck]. and so now Colleen [O'Hanrahan] is saying that she wants to live with Emily. but only in a dou­

Mickelson claims she knew nothing of the pact. 
"I mean, we had talked about maybe living together, but that was during the Texas A&M game back in September, when we had only known each other for like 16 days, or some­thing. I didn't think anyone would take that seriously," she explained. 
Sobieck echoed similar sentiments. 
"Like two weeks ago, Katie [Mickelson] and I were talking. and since no one had talked about living together. we just decided to live together," she said. "It's going to be so cute. We're going to do our mes­sage so it says, 'Hi. you've reached Katie and Katie,' and we're going to pass the phone to each other, so we can each say our names." 
The most recent emotional tremor occurred on January 24. when Noble asked Dining Hall Boy to the crew team SYR, even when she knew that O'Hanrahan was going to ask him to the Pangborn Formal the following night. O'Hanrahan retaliated by steal­ing Noble's television set and donat­ing it to the Congo Relief Mission. 
Moo QUAD 
Student glimpses bookstore 
University officials are baffled by reports that an anymous Siegfried Hall R.A. somehow came within sight of the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. "I was out walking in a snowstorm because I had to mail something at the post office, and all of the sudden, I got turned around, and then I saw this weird church­looking building off in the distance. I couldn't tell what it was because of the snow, but l knew it wasn't anything I'd seen before," he said. "When they tore down the old bookstore, they told the kids on Mod Quad that we weren't going to have a bookstore on campus, so I've just been buying my books online since then." The new bookstore, whose doors ironical­ly face away from the campus it was designed to serve, opened in the Spring of 1999. Rumors of a new building circulated around Mod Quad, but most were quickly dispelled by a carefully maintained media gag order on photographs or referecenes to the bookstore or the Eck Center. "Apparently there's another dining hall on campus, too." 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWealher• forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

NOR-TH QUAD 
That tan isn't fooling anyone 
Theresa Perry returned from a trip to Meijer looking much tanner than usual Friday, and no one on campus is fooled. "That girl was white as a sheet last week, and today she's orange. I don't know what she was thinking," said English professor Susan Lavonde. "l don't know who she thinks she's fooling." Sources close to Perry said that the mysterious tan was definitely not an epidermal flashback to Spring Break. "She spent her Spring Break underground on a service project in a copper mine in Manitoba, or somewhere, so she defin­tely didn't get any sun there," said one friend. Witnesses reported seeing Perry's car parked outside a Mishawaka establishment called "Tan Tan Bo Ban." According to city authorities.Tan Tan Bo Ban operates a series of so-called "tanning beds," where customers voluntarily expose themselves to an ultraviolet light spectrum that turns skin an unnatural orange color. "Maybe she thinks it looks like a tan," one friends said. "That would be a shame, though, because that girl looks like a pumpkin." 
Scandal 
continued from page 1 
London with all sorts of weird-ass music. Techno, or whatever. I wouldn't be surprised if he learned the Dancing Queen song there," said roommate Aaron Wagner. 
In the wake of the inci­dent, members of the Ethics committee of the Campus Life Council called an emergency meeting to draft a possible amend­ment to the Student Union constitution, banning cam­pus events from playing Dancing Queen. 
"This song promotes las­civious behavior that is clearly not in line with the teachings of the Catholic Church," said University president Father Edmund Valloy. "I don't care if she can dance. 1 don't care if she can jive, nor do I care if she's having the time of her life. This so-called queen of dancing is only 17, and I really don't think we, as Christians, can con­done that sort of activity." 
"And I think it's really odd that a guy knows all the words to that song," he added. "Theresa can total­ly do better." 
Attorneys for former ABBA member Bjorn Andersson released a statement issued from his home in Malmo, Sweden. 
"I think it good people of young generation learn words to songs we sing," Andersson said. "Dancing Quee~. is fun song for dance. 
Kowalski has been per• manently banned from attending future Welsh Family Hall events, and charges with Residence Life are pending. 
VIEWPOINT 
Sunday, April 1, 200 I ~ page 3 
Taliban: Elderd has the right idea 

As leader of the Taliban, the extremist group dedicated to oppressing and taking away the rights of all women in Afghanistan, I want to applaud the decision of Saint Mary's College president Shari-Lou Elderd for her to ban the perfor­mance of "The Vagina Monologues" at the College. 
It is especially gratifying to us to see that our belief that women should not be heard or have any rights is spreading worldwide. Although we didn't anticipate that an all women's college would be the first to buy into this idea, we'll take what we can get. In fact. we believe that Dr. Elderd is taking a leadership role that hopefully will influence other leaders to follow the Taliban. 
After Dr. Elderd's decision, I personally contacted her to praise her for her decision and Jet her know that the Taliban is on her side. She graciously accepted our support since most of the student body and faculty have turned against her, except a few misogynist priests and devout Catholics. We exchanged stories about how the oppression of women is not always a popu­lar concept but in the end, it's for the best. 
After speaking with Dr. Elderd, she realized that she has a friend in the Taliban. Therefore, she said that we will work swiftly to create a College-Taliban alliance. This will involve creat­ing a Taliban Club on campus. Dr. Elderd assured us that although the club has to be approved by Board of Governance, this would not be a problem since the student gov­ernment is terrified of making a decision that would go against the administration. 
Dr. Elderd also assured us that the Taliban Club, committed to the oppression and silencing of women would be given prime office space on campus from which to run it's operation. She said the Taliban office will be located in the newly renovated Women's Center. Dr. Elderd said she was nervous that the Women's Center would become a hotbed of feminists anyway so this would effectively end any further organizing on campus. 
To further strengthen the ties between Saint Mary's and the Taliban, the Taliban will be pro­viding funding to create an endowed chair for a visiting pro­fessor. Through this Taliban Chair in Oppressing Women, the College will be able to bring some of the most notable oppres­sors of women and proponents of oppression of women to cam­pus including a return of former Saint Mary's professor and "Vagina Monologues" critic, J. Mark Johnson. 
Perhaps the most exciting development of the Saint Mary's­Taliban alliance will be a new study abroad program. While the Rome and Ireland programs have been popular with students in the past and have given them a sense of independence and an opportunity to grow. these pro­grams will be eliminated. In place of these programs, the College and Taliban have creat­ed a first of it's kind program: the Study Abroad in Afghanistan program. The program will give students a chance to experience the oppression of the Taliban firsthand and return to Saint Mary's realizing their campus is not nearly as oppressive as our regime. 
Because the Taliban has for­bidden women and girls to attend school or universities in Afghanistan, we are encouraging Dr. Elderd to gradually phase out female students and turn the College into an all male institu­tion. 
Finally. in an unprecedented decision. the Taliban has decided to offer Dr. Elderd a position in its government. Although we normally do not encourage plac­ing women in positions of authority or power. we believe that Dr. Elderd has demonstrat­ed through her suppression of "The Vagina Monologues" that she knows that women should not really have a voice and are better off remaining in a submis­sive position. We hope that she will accept our offer. We see Dr. Elderd as a pioneer in carrying out many of the goals of the Taliban in America. 
Mullah Mohammad Omar Taliban leader Off-campus, Afghanistan 

I studied abroad, so worship me 
Last year, I had the opportunity to study abroad on Notre Dame's London Program. and now that I am hack, I am pretty disgusted with America. 
Let me begin by boring you with a long story filled with local slang, to prove I was actually there. I left my flat with a group of 50 of my friends, and we went to this pub, and then we started talking to the bartender, and he was like, America sucks. And I totally agree. America has like no culture at all. In London, they have ballet, opera, plays and concerts. I didn't actually go to any. because we went to the same American-themed sports bar every night, but it was there, and we could have gone if we wanted. 
I definitely want Lo live in Europe one day. It's so pretty. On one of my breaks, me and 43 of my friends went to every country in Europe. It was so great, especially Prague. Beer was like 20 cents there, and we stayed in this one hostel that was only like two dollars a night. It was so cool. Then we went to Berlin. Apparently there's some kind of wall there, because we went to this awesome club called The Wall, and it didn't even open until like two in the morning. Berlin was awesome. They had this huge museum that my friend Stacey threw up in front of. It was so pretty from the outside, but the admission was way expensive, and we were saving our pesos for the clubs. 
And then, we took the train to Amsterdam. which was so great. When dumb Americans think of Amsterdam. all they think of is the Red Light District and marijuana. hut there's so much more than that. In fact, when I was smoking out in this one sketchy bar, this dude handed me a pamphlet for the Anne Frank museum. which is Amsterdam, too, I guess. I don't remember much. 
In short, though, I just want to say that I studied in Europe, so now I'm the classiest. most cosmopolitan person on earth. Also, Americans are ignorant and uncultured and they make me sick. 
Katie Wilson Senior, Off-Campus 

I may have hooked up with you 
This is an open letter to the Notre Dame. Saint Mary's, Holy Cross, and possibly Saint Joseph High School communi­ties. 
So, yeah. We had our formal this weekend. and me and the guys did 40s at four, and then this Yahtzee! drinking game, so I was pretty trashed like hours before I had to pick up my date. 
Yeah, it was cool and all. and I was getting pretty sober so I fig­ured I should go pick up my date. I don't know what her name is, because this dude down the hall from me went with some hot chick from his calc class, and she had a whole bunch of friends, so we all had to go with her friends so that he could go with the hot chick. 
Yeah, so we get there, and I don't know where we were, and I met my date, and she was cool, I guess. I think she was short, or something. I don't remember. She wasn't nearly as hot as that chick from that dude's calc class. 
So. yeah, I guess at some point we got hack to the dorm. I don't remember that part. 

was cool, or whatever, because she was kind of a dud. So. then, I think I was dancing somewhere, I think, and then I don't remember anything after that. 
Yeah, so then the next day these sophomores down the hall were telling me how I hooked up with some girl, and I think I kind of remember that, so that's why I'm writ­
ing. 
I may have 
/ hooked up with 
you. It's cool. though. I don't mind or any­thing. I'm sure you were nice. and since I'm pretty hot, you can tell your friends that you hooked up with 

We were partying in the quad down the hall, and then my date disappeared, which 
me. 
Anyhow, if you're 
reading this. we've 
got this SYR coming up 
next month, so maybe if 

you're not busy, we can hook up again, unless you're ugly. in which case never mind. 
Mike O'Flanagan freshman, Keough Hall 

Contest names Oobserver number Une 
of journalistic brilliance," said contest instead." 
Spcda.l to The Absurder 
judge Tom Dixie, who once worked in the The Observeer's copy editting was alos mail room of the Binghamton Press & Sun honored as tho natoin;s bestt. 
The Absurder took top honors Saturday Bulletin. "They should consider nominat­"You'll never see a typo in that papper,at the 2000-2001 Greatest Newspaper in ing this for a Pulitzer and theay always man­the World competiton. 
Prize." age to pick the right
"This proves, unequivicably, that we 'They should consider 
Other stories that word to say what they
are, indeed, the greatest newspaper 
recieved special recogni­nominating this for a mean," Dixie chortled.
mankind has ever been blessed to see," 
tion included an April overcoming diversity
Pulitzer Prize." 

said Ohbserver sultan Mick Conway. 
special section about the and stimulating Third"Those no-talent assclowns from The New Saint Mary's socccer World hunger. 
York Times can mail me a job application Tom Dixie
season. and a Scene This marks the
if they want, hut if I were them, I wouldn't travel review of the vil­contest judge foourth year in a row waste my time." 
lage of Springfield, Neb. The Oobserver has
Judges specifically honored the 
"By telling its readers been named theObserrver's coverage of October lecture about the wondrous finds in Springfield's World's Greatest Newspaper. a run"Sandals of the Romans and how they museum 'Silos of 1891,' and reviewing the eclipsed only by The Titan, of Franklin
influenced Gustav Neibbur," by 
two eateries in this middle-of-nowhere Pierce High School in Danville, Ill. TheyMonongahela State Community College Amish community, The Observver is per­won seven conseutive years from 1978biology professor Ted Krykewski. 
forming a real community serivce,'' Di.xie through 1989.
"Devoting 12 full pages to this insightful said with a smile. "Reading that article "But they're finished," Conway said.
duscission of how footwear from the Early made me want to cancel my Spring Break "Those punks are ours now."
Roman Empire provided inspiration for trip to Cancun, and head for Springfield The one thing you should know aboutthis 19th-century theologian was a stroke 



Griffey wins PGA 

Taking time offfrom his hectic schedule with the Lakers and Bruins, famed boxer Ken Griffey, Jr., edged Vijay Singh to win last week's 
PORTS 
PGA tournament. 
Sports -page 22 A.JHE 
page 4 rwSURDER Sunday, April 1, 2001 
Mysterious recruit appears on women's team 
By VELMA DINKLEY 
Spons Mas1cr 
Shortly after the Notre Dame women's bas­ketball team won the national championship. a press conference was held to announce a new addition to the women's team. 
"We are pleased to announce that LaTroya Murphy will be a part of our team for the 2001­2002 season," said Muffin McDraw, women's basketball team head coach. 
recruit. 

"LaTroya has an awful lot of body hair and sometimes, her voice gets really deep unex­pectedly," said one player. "But if she can play, her masculine-like characteristics shouldn't really matter to any of us. She can still be just one of the girls." 
Members of the Irish cheerleading squad have also expressed concern with the team's newest player. 
"She's always lingering around when I'm at 
the top of the pyramid," said 


is a bit unexpected head cheerleader Shauna
"It was kind ofstrange

because we had our new Clinton. "It creeps me out
because I felt like I had

recruits pretty much in place when she asks if we need an but LaTroya's stats are so been here for, oh. extra spotter. I mean, come impressive from her former on, go dribble or something."
three years. " 

team that we couldn't turn McDraw affirms, though, her away. We think that she that LaTroya's affection for will be a great replacement LaTroya Murphy the pep has not affected her and fill the void left by some junior performance on the court. 
of our graduating seniors." 
LaTroya is listed as a trans­fer student and wouldn't divulge where she transferred from. 
"That's not really important," she said. "So let's never discuss that again, okay?" The 6-foot-11, 245 lb recruit said she is excit­ed to be a part of the team. 
Little is known about her, though many wit­nesses report seeing her hanging around Morrissey Hall at odd hours. 
"I guess she has a boyfriend that lives here, or something.ff said one Morrissey R.A. "She's always here. Watching T.V., playing Sega, working out or chilling with the guys. She's real nice. and she's got one hell of a deep voice. We want her to sing bass with us at Acoustic Cafe next week. n 
Some of the women's basketball players expressed skepticism about the mysterious LaTroya said she is already 

adapting to her new environ­ment and feels very comfortable at Notre Dame. 
"I felt like I was coming home when I arrived at Notre Dame," said LaTroya. "It was kind of strange because [ felt like I had been here for oh. three years. When I walked into the Joyce Center and practiced on the basketball court, I felt like I had played there many times before. I think I've finally found the team with the right fit for me." 
Already a success in the game with her impressive stats, LaTroya said she considered going pro but wanted one more chance to win a collegiate national championship. 
"I really thought about going to the NBA, uh I mean, WNBA, but I just couldn't end my colle­giate career knowing I hadn't yet accomplished that," said LaTroya." 
DoV\'t like workiV\9 L,\V\der pressl,\re? E-V\joy sleepiV\9? 
3oiV\ Scholastic aV\d eV\joy +wo1 loV\9 weeks to pl,\+ ol,\t a shiV\y Observer. 
.. , 


C<tnec 
Tuesday, April 3, 2001 page l l 
ALBUM REVIEW 
RUN-DMC still shines after nearly two decades 
the category for best R&B rap, creating a By BRIAN KORNMANN vocal performance by a diverse co llec­Scene Music Critic group. The group's 1983 tion of 12 release RUN-DMC was the songs which There a.re not many bands first rap album to earn gold features a in the music industry. partic­status. and its 1985 release wide variety of 
ularly within the hip-hop cir­King of Rock was the first in guest appear­cle, that can remain success­the genre to go platinum. ances from ful for nearly 20 years. Then RUN-DMC was also the first those artists again, HUN-DMC has never rap group to appear in the who have been been just another hip-hop billboard top 10, with 1986's influenced by band. From its major label release of Raising Hell, and RUN-DMC, debut in 1983, RUN-DMC has the members can be credited including always been a source of inno­with revitalizing the career of Jermaine vation, not just within hip­one legendary rock band -Dupri, Nas & hop, but within the music Aerosmith -while creating a Prodigy of industry as a whole. entire new genre of music -Mobb Deep, The group's career achieve­Hardcore/Rap-Metal -with Fred Durst, ments are amazing in and of their famous remake/duet of Kid Rock, themselves: the first rap band "Walk this Wav." Everlast, Third to air a video on MTV, to Amidst thes~ achievements. Eye Blind, 
appear on MTV, "Saturday it is impossible to quantify the Sugar Ray and Night Live," "American influence that RUN-DMC had Method Man. Bandstand" and on the cover on many of the artists in The album 
of "Rolling Stone." music, particularly in today's itself is very RUN-DMC started the adi­rap and hip-hop world. The eclectic, rang­
das fad of the middle 80s and release of the group's newest ing musically exposed hip-hop to suburban album, Crown Royal. reflects from tradition­white America long before the some of this influence that al rap on such 
In its first album since 1993, RUN-DMC has produced an extraordinary mix of hip­
likes of NWA, Eminem or the RUN-DMC has had on the tracks as "It's 
Wu-Tang Clan. In 1986 it industry as a whole. Over" with hop, rock-rap and even blues tracks, featuring a Carlos Santana-like guest list. became the first rap/hip-hop The album takes the model Jermaine band to be nominated for a established by Santana's Dupri and "Queens Day" with Queens to national music leg­trasting artists, such as Durst, Grammy award, appearing in Supernatural and applies it to Nas and Mobb Deep, to rock ends. Crown Royal is interest­Everlast, Kid Rock and Sugar 'n' roll based tracks such as ing. in that even after multi­Ray. the result mixes the two "Rock Show" with Third Eye ple listenings, none of the acts perfectly. Blind and "Here We Go 2001" songs get particularly old or While the album as a whole featuring Sugar Ray and even annoying. is excellent, a few tracks are a pseudo-blues track, "Take RUN-DMC even manages to particularly noteworthy. the Money and Run." with do what many would consider including "It's Over," "Queens Ever last. impossible -make a song Day," "Simmons Crown Royal is strong from featuring the always wonder­Incorporated" and "The beginning to end and focuses ful and never annoying Fred School of Old." equally on both RUN-DMC Durst tolerable, if not even While some longtime fans of and the assorted guests. Most likeable. RUN-DMC may not enjoy all of the songs discuss in some Perhaps the best aspect of the various styles and guest way the influence that RUN­this album is its subtlety. appearances on the album, DMC has had on the various None of the songs stand out overall it is still an excellent artists that appear on the as designed to be huge sin­record and a worthwhile album or the actual history of gles. And when RUN-DMC is addition to any fan's collec­the group's rise from Hollis, paired with seemingly con-tion. 



•{, 

AniDi DaYid NXPX~,
Jag ... . 
Ut.m 
Godsmack'. \'" Ti; \:~~~..,.:,, Amy Ray / .,,, ···. }N j,··.Ap'nl.l2 Old 97s. ·~·'•a.+<;1yi Apfil\l'I 
Cowboy Nouch >,H . ,,,; Apnl<l.11& 14­Umphrey'sNcCee';H " Ap.-,1 .f)J. $jell of H · "' ". .....·•· .4P~l,~l fl s1 
AtTheDr Gus~er' ,~?1
~:ct:~:n:I ?< .. 
.,· . pt;l·:J7 ;:L " 
Hello Day 
:i=·"'"Tf ·'[ft 
'. 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Tu'e~day, April 3, 2001 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP 

Duke wins, Coach 'K' joins elite group with three titles 
Associated r,~ss 
MINNEAPOLIS 
Mike Krzyzcwski didn't want 
to let go of Shane Battier. 
lie hugged him for what 
seemed to be an eternity, a 
farewell embrace for his nation­
al player of the year and team 
leader. 
"It's complete," Duke's all­
everything senior forward said. 
"All that's left for me is to ride 
off into the sunset on a white 
horse." 
With a national title in hand. 
The top-ranked Blue Devils won their third championship -and second in the Metrodome -with an 82-72 victory over Arizona on Monday nighl.. 
With Battier and Duke's other 
All-American. Jason Williams, 
coming up big down the stretch, 
and sophomores Mike Dunleavy 
and Carlos Boozer playing key 
roles, Krzyzewski moved into 
impressive coaching company. 
"The thing with Duke, you pick your poison," Arizona coach Lute Olson said. "Sometimes it's going to be one guy, another time it's going to be someone else. The one con­s istent thing is that Shane Battier is going to have a great game because he just makes things happen. I don't think there's been any question in anyone's mind about him being player of the year." 
Battier played all 40 minutes, scoring 18 points, with 11 rebounds and six assists. He fin­ished his career with 131 victo­ries, tying Kentucky's Wayne Turner, who played from 1996­99, for the NCAA record. 

"Shane wasn't hitting his jump shot, but he comes up with two amazing offensive rebounds," Krzyzewski said. 
He was referring to two plays in the final 4 1/2 minutes when Battier scored after Arizona had closed within three points. 
Krzyzewski said Battier, who went from a role player as a freshman to a two-time national defensive player of the year and All-American, made himself a great player. 
"He's probably the most rec­ognized kid playing college bas­ketball," Krzyzewski said. "He deserves that." 
Still trailing UCLA's John Wooden's 10 national champi­onships, Krzyzewski moved one behind Kentucky's Adolph Hupp and tied his college coach, Bob Knight. who won three at Indiana. 
"Coach is such a tremendous influence in my life," Battier said. "To give him his third championship, and separate him from the pack that has won two is the best way that I could go out. It's my going-away pre­sent to him. 
"I am the luckier person to 
have the relationship with him 
for the last four years. And I 
know that he'll be one of my 
most valuable friends for the 
rest of my life." 
To get to this game, Duke {35­
4) had Lo overcome a 22-poinL deficit in Saturday's semifinal win over Maryland. The last time the Blue Devils won it all. it was by 20 points over Michigan. 
The loss ended Arizona's ago­nizing season and kept the Wildcats (28-8) from matching their own record of beating three No. 1 seeds in the NCAA tournament, which they did when they won it all in 1997. 
Loren Woods had 22 points and 11 rebounds to lead Arizona, the team that rebound­ed from a poor start and over­came lhe death of Olson's wife, Bobbi. on Jan. 1 to reach the championship game. 
"All the emotions they had to go through and they withstood them and did a great job to get to the final game," Olson said. "It's tough. Someone's got to lose it. Duke is deserving. We gave them a good run and couldn't get it done." 
Duke's other titles came in consecutive years, and the sec­ond in 1992 was won in this building after the same trip through the tournament ­Greensboro, N.C., Philadelphia and Minneapolis for the Final Four. 
Dunleavy, playing in front of his father, Portland Trail Blazers coach Mike Dunleavy, led Duke with 21 points, 18 in the second half. 
Dunleavy hit a career-high five 3-pointers, while Boozer, who just returned last weekend after missing six games with a broken foot, had 12 points and 12 rebounds. 
Williams, saddled with foul trouble, had 16 points on 5-for­15 shooting. 
"So many times people are always saying you stop Shane and I, you can beat Duke," Williams said. "We're so much bigger than that." 
Duke is the first No. 1-ranked team to win the national cham­pionship since UCLA in 1995. 
Dunleavy had three 3-pointers in an 11-2 run that put the Blue Devils up 50-39 four minutes into the second half. 
Arizona came right back with a 9-0 run that was capped by a hook shot by Woods with 14:11 left that made it 50-48. 


It took Duke just four minutes to get the lead back to 10, 61­51, on Dunleavy's last 3 of the game with 10:08 l.o play. 
Again, the Wildcats came back. 
Four times Arizona got within three points. Three times it was Battier, the outstanding player of the Final Four, who respond­ed for Duke. 
His dunk on a pass from 

Williams made it 77-72 with 
2:31 left, and Williams hit a 3 with 1:45 left that gave the Blue Devils an eight-point lead. 
"Most games we're able to get that run," Woods said. "We just couldn't today. They just beat us at our own game." 
Duke, which set NCAA records this season for 3-point­ers made and attempted, fin­ished 9-for-27 from beyond the arc. Arizona really struggled from long range, finishing 4-for­22 with Jason Gardner missing all eight attempts. 
Duke shot 47 percent from the field (30-for-64). well above the 38 percent Arizona's other opponents, including No. 1 seeds Illinois and Michigan State, shot during the tourna• ment. 
Arizona shot 39 percent (28­for-71), nowhere near the 50 percent mark the Wildcats were at for the first five games of the tournament. 
"Somehow," Dunleavy said. "we were able to outlast them." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
LOST AND FOUND 
LOST A black carry-on bag at Main Circle on Thursday (3/22) between 8 pm and midnight. If found or have any info on its whereabouts, please contact Pablo at x1 775 
FOR SALE 
Full size bed with box spring and frame $150 call 634-4575 Europe $199 one way. Mexico/Caribbean or Central America $250 round trip plus tax. Other world-wide destinations cheap. 
II you beat these prices start your own darn airline! Book tickets on line www.airtech.com or toll free (877) AJRTECH. 
FOR RENT 
Nice 3-bdrm 1-1/2 bath Tri-level, family room, fireplace, fenced back yard, 2-car garage. $995/mo Call 219-232-4527 Or 616-683-5038 

Chicago two bedroom in Lakeview owned by Domer, nice closets, brick 6-flat, Hardwood floors, bright apartment, decorative fireplace, near el, heat included! May 1 $1250/month 773-472-7775 
3-bdrm heme 2 blks from campus, Fall 01. 273-1566 
3 houses still available for 2001-02, 5-6 BR, Furnished, W/D, prime locations, 233-9947 Greg 
3·6 BDRM HOMES $180 per person Furn. Summer/Fall 272-6306 
CHICAGO APT. AVAILABLE FOR MAY THROUGH AUGUST IN LIN­COLN PARK LOCATION. CLOSE TOEL 1 or 2 BEDROOMS OWN BATHROOM $780/mo. 1·312·443-6062 JAIME 
WANTED 

Need infant childcare for 6 month old Wed & Fri 8-5. Contact Kristen 631-8270 
5th roommate needed for first semester. House is close te campus. Call Dan @ 4-2091. 
Graduating seniors: Looking to sell your apartment furni­ture (beds, desks, couches, etc)? ND juniors looking to buy. Gall Nick at 4-4716 ii interested. 
Indiana catholic couple with huge hearts wishing to adopt a child. We can provide your baby with lots of love and a secure, stable life. Reasonable expenses will be paid. For more info, please call Rebecca re: Larry & Kathy; toll-free 1-866­30-AOOPT. 
PERSONAL 

Congratulations, Irish basketball! 
Way to go, Coach Kl 
Senior-itis has set in. Carry the torch. Good job, 

ICPA winners from The 0. Keep the love coming. wow instant messenger has gotten 
out of control...hook-ups with chicks 
who have mustaches? g-love and special sauce was groovy, especially cold beverage-­thanx kurt, much fun 
Awesome Monday paper, Ostaffl No more work ... please! 
page 13

Tuesday, April 3, 2001 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 
Contact us or Drop by: 
Coleman-Morse Center 631-7800 email ministry. l@nd.edu web www.nd.edu/~ministry 
Th. W k. C M. . 
rs ee m ampus rmstry 
Monday-Tuesday April 2-3. 11 :30 pm-1 0:00pm St Paul's Chapel. Fisher Hall 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Tuesday. April 3. 7:00 p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Campus Bible Study 
Tuesday, April 3. 7:00 g.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
Confirmation: Session #11 
Wednesday, April 4. 10:00 p.m. Morrissey Ha/I Chapel 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Friday. April 6. 8:00 p.m. Morrissey Chapel 
807 -A New Mass on Friday Nights 
Friday. April 7. 5:00 p.m. 1st Floor. Coleman-Morse Center 
Africentric Spirituality Office Blessing and Harambee Celebration All are welcome! 
Friday-Sunday, April 6-7 Sacred Heart Parish Center 
Senior Retreat #6 
Sunday, April 8. 10:30 a.m. Stanford/Keenan Chapel 
RCIA -Morning of Reflection 
11 :45 a.m. Mass 
Sunday. April 8. 1 :30 p.m. Zahm Hall Chapel 
Spanish Mass Presider: Rev. J. Steele, csc 
Sunday, April 8 Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Palm Sunday 

Faith FAQs
We'll be back 

atholic factinext week! 
GlriiWAiiiilli 

iend your que~tiom to father J. at ministr .1@nd.edu. 
Ever wonder why we as Catholics do what we do or believe what we believe? Please send m your questiom, comments and rnggestiom to mini~try.1@nd.edu. 
1 

f.i Stations of the Cross in Chicago
-

LA VIA CRUCIS 
(The Way of the Cross} 
IN CHICAGO'S PILSEN NEIGHBORHOOD 
"The heart of Chicago's Latino Community" 
GOOD FRIDAY, APRIL 13 
Join Campus Ministry and the Center for Social Concerns as we celebrate with over 2000 faithful the traditional Latino reenactment of our Lord's Passion and Death in the streets of Pilsen, followed by reflection and a simple lunch. 
Please sign up at 114 Coleman-Morse by 
Wednesday, April 11. 
Seats are limited! Cost is $5 (includes transportation and simple lunch) 
fiJ Adoration 

Eucharistic Adoration 
Mondays 11 :30 pm through Tuesday at 10:00 pm at St. Paul's Chapel, Fisher Hall. 


For information,call Mary Tarsha@ 634-2469 or Lisa Demidovich@ 634-0847. 
fiJ Interfaith Prayer Service 
Prayer & Praise 
Led lty s1uden1:s of dllverse Chns111an backgrounds 
Everyone is Welcome 
Every Wednesday @ 10 p.m. Morrissey Chapel
lnte~ bffifl 
ffl'.g.ht IJJ.ii)rer featuring the Celebration Choir 
pag¢ 14 \ 


Tu.esday, A'Pr.i.l, 3, ,200l, ­
Rockne 
continued from page 20 

sports were just beginning to become a part of mainstream American culture, Rockne and Notre Dame defined sports. He coached the Four Horsemen and gave the famous "Win one for the Gipper" speech. He started the Bengal Bouts boxing program as a way to keep his players in shape. 
He was a renowned track and field coach. Rockne didn't just embody the spirit of Notre Dame -he created it. 
Heathman was a mere teenager when he and his uncle arrived at the crash site. What he saw would change his life forever. 
"I went to Notre Dame last year and arranged a meeting with Father Theodore Hesburgh," he said. "In our conversation I said, 'Father, it's amazing how this has enriched my life.'" 
Heathman dedicated the rest of his life to preserving a monu­ment on the spot where the plane crashed. lie unselfishly led historians, tourists, fans, and countless others from his modest house through the Kansas woods to the simple, 10-foot obelisk. 
"It's given him a reason to be," said Heathman's friend David Kil. Notre Dame's assis­tant registrar. "People start 
stopping by and he takes them 
up there. If they offer him 
money, he won't take it. If they 
insist. he'll use it to put a new 
wreath out. He is an ambas­
sador who is an unsung hero." 
Heathman is a folk legend to 
Notre Dame fans, and the mon­
ument he protects has been a 
gathering place for die-hard 
football fans. 
Sometimes, visitors will travel to Heathman's farm merely to talk to the spirit of Rockne. They'll talk about what Rockne means to them, what he means to Notre Dame, and the incredi­ble tradition he started. 
Last year, on the 69th anniversary of Rockne's death, a group of five Notre Dame seniors invited Bob Davie to join them in Kansas. They had been making the trip to Kansas since they had been freshman. 
"They have a ceremony where each one of them would talk to Knute and they would say what he meant to them and what he meant to Notre Dame, and how the tradition contin­ues," Davie said. 'Then it was my turn." 
So what did the current Notre Dame football coach and the heir to Rockne's legacy have to say? 
"I said, 'Why'd you have to make these expectations so high?" Davie said. 
And that's exactly what Rockne did for Notre Dame. He raised the bar and he changed what is expected of Notre Dame football seasons. As Davie him­self said, 5-7 seasons aren't acceptable by Notre Dame standards: "Knute, I know you can hear me, and I apologize about that," he said last year. 




Davie has a special memento of the Rockne crash site. 

ing one pilot, six passengers, and a Notre Dame football coach. Seventy years ago, a leg­end was found lying on the ground, a rosary in his pocket. Seventy years ago, one man died. 
His spirit survived. 

"[Heathman] came by and brought me glass -actual glass -from the windshield of Rockne's crash," he said. "That shows you what this place is, tradition wise." 
Seventy years ago, a simple plane fell from the sky, carry­





MEN'S TENNIS 
No. 19 Miaini edges No. 10 Irish 
By KATIE HUGHES Sports Writer 
A few hours before the women's basketball team was fighting its way to victory from a tie, the men's tennis team had three tied matches going on at once. 
Leaving South Bend's barely spring-like weather to face No. 19 Miami in temperatures approaching 90 degrees, the No. 10 Irish lost an excruciatingly close match Sunday 4-3. 
"Obviously, we're disappointed with the loss to Miami, but I thought the effort level was very high," said Irish head coach Bobby Bayliss. "I don't think we could have played any harder." 
"To come that close and come up short is tough." said Irish freshman Matt Scott. "They had some grinders and hitters, while we rely more on power and strength." 
The Irish did, as usual, show their depth and strength in the middle of their singles lineup. Freshman Luis Haddock­Morales had a decisive victory at No. 3 singles, beating Miami's Lindquist 6-4, 7-5. Aaron Talarico, a perpetual pillar for Notre Dame, beat Miami's Hoffman 4-6, 7-5, 7-6 (7-5) to win his seventh straight singles match. Freshman Matthew Scott added some momentum to his spectacular season, beating Miami's Culub 5-7, 6-1, 6-3 at No. 6 singles. 
"Aaron Talarico showed an unbelievable amount of courage," said Bayliss. "He really scratched and clawed and found a way to win. Matt Scott showed a lot of poise in his match, com-


RecSports has openings for this summer and the 2001:-2002 academic 
,r. . ~,. 

year in the fqUowipgtppsifions: 
~ludinl,~i1pervi~or~ front Desk''~upervi~or~
f ; 
f itne~~ Ro6nj:;~upervi~or~
'\.. ·.· ; .,.. , . . ¾ 
•~~ue Room,:~~pervi~or~
Lif~cJ~;qp&· -i 
WWW ~u1ipoti,,~tudent 

Any one who is interested in applying for these positions should stop by the RecSports office and fill out an applica­tion. Office hours are 8:00-12:00 & 1 :00-5:00. 631-5100. 
ing back to win comfortably in the third set." 
Scott is now 11-1 this season. 
Miami's Michael Lang beat 9lst-ranked junior Casey Smith 6-2, 4-6, 8-6 (7-0) at No. 1 sin­gles, and Tomas Smid beat Notre Dame junior Javier Taborga 3-6, 7-6 (7-4), 7-6 (7-4) at No. 2 sin­gles. Rrian Farrell lost to Miami's Lieberman 6-2, 6-2 at No. 5 singles. 
As the Irish approach the end of the season, with the Big East Championships and a string of top-25 ranked teams on the horizon, it has become impossi­ble to ignore the need to win the ever-elusive doubles point. 
"The area of our team that needs attention is our doubles," Bayliss said. "We're making some fundamental breakdowns. Whether we need to turn our attention to different combina­tions or a new person or two, or to better focus on execution, remains to be seen." 
The 20th-ranked Irish doubles team of juniors Taborga and Talarico beat the Hurricanes' 31th-ranked team of Smid and Hoffman 9-8 (7-4), but Miami's Andrew Golub and Johan Lindquist beat senior Matt Daly and sophomore Brian Farrell 8-5 at No. 3, 8-5. Miami's No. 2 dou­bles team of Michael Lang and Jose Lieberman beat Notre Dame's Smith and Haddock­Morales 8-6. 
"Smith and Taborga played exceptionally well to get to the point where they could serve for the match, then they were just a little too anxious," Bayliss said. "Maybe they wanted to win almost too much. They'll correct that. They'll be back, and we'll be back." 
The Irish will face Miami again in the Big East Championships in Miami in three weeks. 



fulfill 
1 $ 
11ve 

EARN FULL0YEAR CREDIT IN BIOLOGY, CHEMISTRY, PHYSICS AND FOREIGN LANGUAGES 
ACCELERATE PROGRESS TOWARDS YOUR DEGREE 
FULFILL A DISTRIBUTION OR GENERAL EDUCATION REQUIREMENT 
LIVE ON NORTHWESTERN'$ LAKESIDE CAMPUS, JUST NORTH OF CHICAGO! 
Call 800-FINDS-NU for a catalog. 
TRACK AND FIELD 
Shay qualifies for Nationals in 10,000 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Associate Spores Editor 
It's safe to say Ryan Shay likes the 10,000-meter run. 
It had been seven months since the senior All-American last competed in his favorite event, but the long layoff didn't seem to slow down the top Irish distance runner. 
Shay finished in 28 minutes, 40 seconds, the second-fastest time in Notre Dame history. en route to a fourth-place finish in the 10,000 at the Stanford Invitational. The time automati­cally qualifies Shay for the NCAA Outdoor Championships. 
The senior was about 14 sec­onds off the school record he ran last year at the Mt. SAC Relays. Shay also ran a 28;51 at the Olympic Trials last August, the fifth fastest time in the 10,000 meters. In all, Shay holds four of the top five 10,000-meter times. 
It was a rather strange week­end for the men's and women's teams as they split up to com­pete in three different meets to kick off the outdoor season. Four distance runners joined Shay at Stanford, while most top jumpers and sprinters com­peted in the Arizona State Invitational. The rest of the team competed in the Purdue Invitational. 
In Arizona, many Irish women turned in winning per­formances. 
Junior Llz Grow, the Big East runner-up in the 400-meter dash, won the 100 and finished second in the 200. Her 100 time of 11.91 is a new personal best. 
Kymia Love ran 55.06 in the 400 to take first. It was the first time the sophomore didn't have to run in Grow's shadow, and she made the most of her opportunity. 
In the first 1,500-meter race of her career, freshman Megan Johnson placed third with a time of 4:33.5. 
In the pole vault, Jamie Volkmer continued her domi­nance of her favorite event by winning the vault with an 11· foot, 5 3/4-inch leap. Freshman Jill Vanweelden placed third by clearing 10-11 3/4. 
In the long jump, sophomore All-American Tameisha King won her first outdoor competi· tion of 2001, jumping 19-11 3/4. 
Senior Travis Davey turned in the best individual perfor­mance out of the men who competed at Arizona by placing in the top five in two events. Davey took fifth in the 100 in 
10.91 and third in the 200 in 21.71. 
The men also turned in solid performances in the field events. Junior Andrew Cooper, who won the Big East high jump competition a month ago, cleared 6-8 3/4 for fourth place. In his first discus competition of the year, Derek Dyer took third place with a toss of 164-11. 
Among the athletes who com­peted at Purdue, thrower Dore DeBartolo's was the biggest story. The junior, who sat out the indoor season win an injury, placed second in the hammer throw and shot put. 
On the track, Jennifer Fibuch took second in the 5,000-meter run while Ana Morales placed second in the 800-meter run. 
On the men's side, Nathan Shay turned in an impressive fifth-place finish in the 10,000 meters, running 32:05. 
Josh Heck placed second in the pole vault with a leap of 15­
11. Meanwhile, Quill Redwine placed second by soaring 6-9 3/4 in the high jump, a new personal best. 

INDIANA UNIVERSITY SOUIBBEND 
CONTINUING EDUCATION 
Is the GRE or GMAT in your future? 
Be better prepared for the GRE or GMAT with an exam review class from IUSB Continuing Education. Here's what makes our programs stand out ~ram the competition: 
Value: Our exam reviews are priced hundreds of dollars less than other test prep programs, 
Proven strategies for attacking even the most difficult questions. 
Live, in-person instruction. We do not use videotaped presentations or rely on remote broadcasts. 
An experienced instructor with up-to-date knowledge of the latest revisions in the tests. to provide you with tips you may not find in a bool.<>r c:,1;'1e. 
In-class practice sessions with actual exam questions. 
Extensive take-home materials for additional review and practice. 
GRE Review: Mondays and Wednesdays, April 11-May 23, 6-10 p.m. $465. GMAT Review: Wednesdays, April 11-May 16, 6-10 p.m. $399. 
All classes meet on the !.idiana University South Bend campus, 1700 Mishawaka Avenue, Course fees include all materials. 
To register or for more information, call lUSB Continuing Education at 237-4261. Or visit www.iusb.edu/-cted. 

.. l'I... \. . (_ : -l , • , ' C 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, April 3, 2001 
Golf 
continued from page 20 
first day but then it rained and the second day was tougher." 
Along with her excellent individual showing, Byrne was very pleased with the efforts of her teammates. 
"l 'm really excited for the team," Byrne said. "We got off to a rough start this year where one of us would play well. but we could never get coordinated." 
Along with Byrne in the top nine were senior Shane Smith and sophomore Terri Taibl, who tied for ninth with 154 totals. Smith entered the final round tied for fourth after shooting an opening round of 74, but slipped to 80 over the final 18 holes for her 154. Taibl shot rounds of 76 and 78 for her 154 total. The 36-hole, 154 totals were the best of Smith and Taibl's Notre Dame careers. 
Senior Danielle Villarosa, playing as an individual entrant finished the tourna­ment tied for 24th after shoot­ing a 161 with rounds of 80 and 81. 
Notre Dame's fourth finisher was junior Kristin McMurtrie, who finished tied for 44th with a 167 total. She shot an 86 in the opening round and fol­lowed it with an 81 on Sunday. 
Sophomore Shelby Strong tied for 71st with a 177 mark on rounds of 86 and 91 on the weekend. 
The Notre Dame women's golf team returns to action April 7-8 when they travel to Bloomington, Indiana for the Indiana Invitational. 

WOMEN'S TRACK AND FIELD 
Belles go home satisfied with fifth place 
By.KATIE McVOY As>odaie Sports Editur 

The Saint Mary's track team may have finished fifth during Saturday's meet, but the run­ners considered the perfor­mance a team success. 
As a whole, the team reached eight personal bests and 10 season bests. 
"I think we did really well for ourselves," team captain Kara Bergeman said. 
Junior Erica Burket led the team. scoring 19 points along with attaining season bests in four events. Burket took sec­ond place in the triple jump, with a season best of 32-feet, 9 3/4 inches. A 5-0 high jump was enough to earn her a third place finish and another sea­
ffl 7:30 p.m. IJ Little Theatre 

son best. Burket's 16.71 sec­ond dash through the 100­meter hurdles landed her a fourth place finish and her third season best of the meet. Wrapping up the new records for the season. Burket joined Whitney Ross, Anne Dudding and Laura Graf on a fifth place 4 x 400-meter relay. 
Ross and Graf also added split times of 1:10.8 and 1:01.0 respectively that were their best of the year. The team wrapped up a season best of 4:30.27. 
"Erica has always done well," Bergeman said. "This year it helps to have other jumpers helping her out." 
Freshman Becky Shcpkowski jumped in to aid Burekt in the field events. scoring nine points for the team on a 14-4 long jump that earned her fifth place in the event. The jump was a personal best for the recent addition to the Saint Mary's club. She also landed a 30-11 triple jump to finish in third place just behind team­mate Burket. Shepkowski teamed up with Dudding, Courtney Follmer and Jaclyn Thompson to claim a fourth place finish in the 4 x 100­meter relav, with a season best time of 57.06. Thomspon, Pollmer and Dudding each had season best split times, run­ning 13.8, 14.0 and 14.5 respectively. 
Thompson, a freshmen, didn't stop with a season best in the relay. Thompson cleared 8-6 on the pole vault for a per­sonal best and a new school record. 
The 4 x 800-meter relay team chalked up a second place victory. The team, com­posed of Nicole Garcia, Ross, Erin Kosco and Graf finished with a time ofl0:47.98. 
Follmer and Graf wrapped up the Saint Mary's scoring. Follmer took a fifth place finish in the 100-meter dash. with a time of 19.03. Graf claimed a first place victory in the 800­meter, with a time of 2:27. 
Although the Belles are lc1\.v in numbers on distance run­ners and had a weak throwing meet, they still reached several season bests. 
"It didn't help that we didn't have anybody place in throw­ing events," Bergeman said. "If we had a stronger field in throwing or more distance runners we would do better." 

Kel -if you were still this big 

I could pick up after you, find all your belongings, get you places on time, and help your underdeveloped sense of direction... in other words I could do everything for you that you do for me now. May the best roommate ever have a happy 21st I love you.
• 

Love, Katie 
The Waning of :Major War April 6-8, 200 I Hesburgh Center for International Studies Is the likelihood of major interstate war declining? This conference will bring together leading scholars rrom a variety of disciplines to critically assess the thesis that major war is waning, even as domestic armed conflicts and civil wars continue unabated. Participants will consider historical trends in the magnitude and intensity of major inter-state wars and explore the impact of several factors on the prospects £or war. Through analysis and dialogue, participants will take a comprehensive look at the future of interstate war. Friday, April 6 Keynote Address: The Future of lVlajor War (4:30 ­5:45 p.m.) 1"1.artin van Creveld., Hebrew University Saturday. April 7 Is M:ajor War Between States in Decline? (9_00 -11 :45 a_m) Paul W. Schroeder, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign John M:ue1ler, Ohio State University The International System and Nuclear Weapons (1:00 ­3:00 p.m.) Kalevi Holsti, University of" British Columbia T_V_ Paul, M:cGill University lnsHt.utional and Normative Constraints (3;30 ­5:30 p.m.) Patrick M_ Morgan, University of California at Irvine Hendrik Spruyt, Arizona State University Sunday. ApriJ 8 Democracy,. Market,. and War (9:30 ­11:15 a.m.) Raimo Vayrynen, University of' Notre Dame William Thompson, Indiana University sponsored by: The Joan B. Kroc Institute f'or International Peace Studies The Nanovic Institute f"or European Studies The Henkels Visiting Scholars Series Further information is available at <wwvv_nd_edu/-krocinst/waningwar>_  

-----------------------------------------------, Tu~s1ay, April 3, 2001. The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
WOMEN'S TENNIS ... 
Netters' double play helps Irish dominate home court 
By STEVE KEPPEL 
Sports Writer 
There's no place like home, espe­cially for the Notre Dame women's tennis team. 
The seventh-ranked Irish improved their record to 17-4 after two impressive home victories over Iowa and William and Mary this weekend. The 17-4 record is the best for the Irish since 1985-86, their first year in Division I. The Irish have now won eight in a row at home and 26 of their last 27 in South Bend. 
"It's a really good advantage," said junior Becky Varnum. "The travel takes a toll on us. Also, when we are away we usually play on only four courts and there is a lot of waiting around. It's nice to play on six courts here because we all get to go out and play at the same time." 
On Saturday, the Irish came out CTred up against 32nd-ranked Iowa. Looking to make up for a tough loss last weekend to Tennessee and avenge a 1999 NCM Tournament loss to the Buckeyes, the Irish were unstoppable in a 6-1 win.
• 
The fifth-ranked doubles team of All-American Michelle Dasso and Varnum continued its dominance as they won their 12th straight match 8-1. Their victory was followed by wins from Lindsay Green/Nina Vaughan and Kim Guy/Katie Cunha. as the Irish easily took the doubles point. 
It was all Irish from then on with singles wins from Varnum, Vaughan. Green, Guy and Dasso, who won her 130th singles match, an Irish record. Da.sso, rnnked No. 3 in the country, has now won 29 straight home singles matches, going back to the 1998-99 season. 
"I think we went in expecting a tough match; that's why we played so well," said Varnum. "I feel like every time we play them now its revenge: ever since they beat us two years ago its been psychologi­cally different." 
Sunday afternoon, the Irish took up right where they left otT, as they trounced William and Mary 7 -0. In their eighth shutout this season, the Irish ·swept the doubles point once again. Dasso and Varnum contin­ued their streak of 13 straight victo­ries, as they are now 16-2 in dual matches this season. Juniors Green and Vaughan clinched the doubles point, winning their eighth in a row, beating Kari Olsen and Kelli Partlow at No. 3 doubles 8-5. 

Green later secured the shut out for the Irish with a win over Lindsay Sullivan 7 -6 (7 -4), 6-2 at the No. 4 singles spot. The win improves her record to 5-0 at the number four spot. 
Dasso won her 30th consecutive home match by beating a pesky Delphine Troch 6-4, 6-3. Dasso bounced back this week with two wins. after uncharacteristically los­ing two in a row against Tennessee and Kentucky. Iler record now stands at a team best 30-8. 
In a shutout its obvious that everyone has played well and done their part but the play of Green and Cunha reallv stood out. Green, who has been battling shin injuries, fought hard to gain a two set over­time victory over Sullivan. 
Cunha, who lost a tough match Saturday, battled back by crushing Kelli Partlow 6-0, G-2. 
"Katie Cunha finished her match in a half hour." said Varnum. "Katie rebounded right back with a great win, she just went out and played hard and killed the girl." 

KYLIE CARTER/The Observer 

Junior Kim Guy (above) paired with Katie Cunha to win dou­bles matches over Iowa and William & Mary this weekend. 
RETIREMENT INSURANCE MUTUAL FUNDS TRUST SERVICES TUITION FINANCING Attention: New faculty members and staff Unsure about your retirement choices? Discover the TIAA~CREF Advantage. If you're a new faculty member or staff employee and not sure about your retirement plan choices, just contact TIAA-CREF. THE TIAA-€REF .We're the financial organization that's been , c;{ dedicated for over 80 years to helping people in ADVANTAGE'.: ' ... ,. ·. ',: education and research reach their financial goals. Find out for yourself how TIAA-CREF provides: Investment Expertise • Easy diversification among arange of expertly Low Expenses managed funds Customized ' • A solid history of performance and exceptional personal service Payment Options • A strong commitment to low expenses • Plus,.a full range of flexible retirement income· Expert Guidance options • # ,,_ --· So call us for afree information pa.ckage or just talk fo one of your colleagues: You'll find that choosing your retirement plan provider is simple when you go with the leader: TIAA-CREF.  
Ensuring the future for those who shape it."'  1.800.842.2776 www.tiaa-cref.org  
FOf more complete information on our securities products. call 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5509. for prospectuses. Read·them carefully before you invest • TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. and Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc. distribute securities products. • Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association (TIAA), New York, NY and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co., New York, NY issue insurance and annuities. • TIAA•CREF Trust Company, fSB provides trust services. • Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are not bank guaranteed.C2001 Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association-College Retirement Equities fund, New York, NY O 1/04  


This SIIMMe', leBf'n st 
Lo90L6 

Get a jump on your degree-or wrap up a required course or two-at Loyola University Chicago's Summer Sessions. You'll have a top-quality academic experience at a premier national university ranked a "best value" by U.S. News and World Report. 
Early Session: May 21 -June 29 Late Session: July 2 -August 10 Extended Session: May 18 -August 11 
• Take the courses you want-including upper­level classes you can't get at community colleges. 
• Choose from four Chicago-area campuses, or learn on!ine at our virtual campus. 
• 
Pick your own schedule from our array of day, evening, weekend and online courses. 

• 
Enjoy the best of Chicago in the summertime. Many of our courses specially Incorporate the city's great business and cultural resources. 


At Loyola, you'll get the same personal attention we provide to our full-time students-in courses taught by the same top-notch professors you'll find in our class­rooms year-round. Visit our Web site to learn more about Loyola-and apply today! 
SlfMMe• Sessions 2001 
Loyola University Chicago 
WWW.LIIC.Bdl.l/i1CifdBMill!l/8bMMBl'/id9 
Chjcago's Jesuit University 
LOYOLA 

Call today! 
~..3UNIVERSITY 

~ SCHICAGO 1-800-7-LOYOLA 
04' .'-'4i.'ifi,\ Summer Sessions 


•'Tuesday, April 3, 2001 
SOFTBALL 

Sharron throws no-hitter as Irish sweep competition 
By LIA GARClA MILHOAN Sports W rirer 
The Irish women's softball team began Big East play with a bang. 
Notre Dame swept a double­header against St. John's Saturday and came right back on Sunday to take a double­header from Seton Hall and boost its Big East record to 4-0. 
The Irish are now 26-3 on the season for the best start in 
Notre Dame added four runs in the bottom of the third led by the hitting of Lemire, Andrea Loman. Andria Bledsoe and Sharron. 
In the bottom of the fourth inning, Alkire hit her 26th career home run which both ended the game early and tied a school record for career homers. 
Sharron struck out the side in the fifth to secure the no-hitter. 
The second game featured a 
defensive 
battle lead 
school histo­"The first game everything by two ry. with coach strong pitch­
went our way. Every ball 
Liz Miller ing perfor­
we hit was just exactly in 
coaching her mances. 500th game the right spot." "The pitch­at Notre ing staff did Dame over great today,"
Liz Miller
the weekend. Miller said. Irish pitcher softball coach "They really 
Jen Sharron pitched her first career no-hitter during Saturday's first game as Notre Dame batted its way to an 8-0 win. 
"The first game everything went our way," Miller said. "Every ball we hit was just exactly in the right spot." 
Lizzy Lemire went 2-3 to lead the Irish charge. In the end. seven batters recorded a hit in the game. 
Alexis Madrid's sacrifice fly to right field allowed junior Jenny Kriech to open the scoring. Melanie Alkire and Jarrah Myers later scored to give Notre Dame a 3-0 lead at the end of the first inning. 
stepped up." 
Freshman Kristin Schmidt pitched her fourth shutout of the season and allowed only two hits while lowering her EHA to .74. 
However, Courtney Fitzgerald of St. John's was equally effec­tive, allowing just seven Notre Dame hits in six innings. 
Notre Dame's lone run came in the bottom of the sixth when Alkire led off with a double. Jarrah Myers doubled to center field, allowing Alkire to score and gave the Irish a 1-0 win. 
"I thought the key there was Mel [Alkire] coming up with that leadoff double and Jarrah obvi­ously following with the double," 
Student Union Board is reopening the position of Concerts programmer 
-I 
1. 
~ 
~' 
l I 
Miller said. 

On Sunday, the Irish took on the Pirates of Seton Hall. With a 6-3 win in the first game and al0-2 win in the second the Irish swept its fourth consecu­tive doubleheader at Ivy Field. 
Notre Dame got on the board early in game one as Kriech and Alkire scored in the first. 
In the fourth inning. the Irish were up by three when the Pirates began their rally. 
With the bases loaded and only one out, Notre Dame's Madrid threw home to Myers for what appeared to be the second out. However, the home plate umpire called Myers for catch­er's interference, which auto­matically advanced all runners. Pirate Marlena Koiynski con­nected for a single that allowed two Seton Hall runs to score. 
The Irish escaped the inning in a 3-3 tie. 
Notre Dame responded with a three-run fifth inning of its own to secure a 6-3 win. 
The second game was Notre Dame's from the start. 
Schmidt struck out five of the first seven batters she faced. while the Irish offense put four runs on the board in the first inning and followed with five runs in the fourth. 
Leading the offensive display were Kriech and Alkire, who each posted two hits. The Irish added one more run in the fifth giving them a 10-2 win. 
The Irish will next play a dou­bleheader at Purdue on Tuesday. 



interested in music? come be a part of what bands and performers SUB brings to campus 
\ .. \~ 

pplications 
can be picked u outside the SUB office, 201 
LaFortune and are due Thursday, April 5th 
--------------------------~------------------------------------------...., 
Tuesday, April 3, 2001 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
TOM KEELEY

FOURTH AND INCHES 

Fox TROT BILLAMEND 

TYLER

THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 

And wh C.n 11ou'r(. done. Mo.';1be. t:'Ml"\dl'4J, 
w1+ht11'1 po.pe.c-1 ~w Du-\-Shovldn'-t ~ b._ £\.bovt do1nq t,\~ d«MS tt\1!1? Af-\<ro.\\, lctuf\dr~? ~oo• re-t\\e.C\ol\e.,. 
~ 


EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 32 Inquires 66 Like overused 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON doing.000 gym clothes THIS DAY: Elizabeth Taylor, VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22):
1 ·A Jug of Wine, 36 Whizzes 
Joanne Woodward, Ralph Nader, Get together with friends you
a Loaf of Bread 38 Skater Harding 67 Cause for a 
Adam Baldwin, Oi.elsea Clinton don't see that often. Don't hesi­
-and Thou• lawsuit
39 With 62-Across, Happy Birthday: You know tate to sign up for courses that poet the question is 68 Cry of a blamer how to please a crowd and will will bring you additional work 5 Fruits by a ... (I) 69 Dines have absolutely no problem skills.000 attracting attention You will cap­LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22):
partridge 42 Like *E pluribus 
tivate others with your ideas and New romantic relationships will
10 Kind of palm unum• DOWN 
can make gains that seemed develop through group activities. 14 Noose material 43 Ship of 1492 1 Symphony impossible in the past The catch Don't expect everyone you work 15 1973 #1 Rolling 44Dumb_ pertormer: Abbr. will be to not waste your energy with to be on your side. Talk is 
Stones hit (stupidheads) on those who can't help you. You cheap, and someone may try to
2 Idiot 

need to focus on those positioned lead you astray. 00
16 •-the night 45 Minimovies 3 Strike_ (what 
in high places first. Your num­SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):before ... • 47 Items in a models do) bers: 2, 14, 18, 23, '27, 29 Partners will be full of enthusi­17 The answer is 22-Across 4 Takes five ARIES (March 21-April 19): asm, but they will also be overly 49 Elevator man It's back to the drawin~ board to emotional. Try to balance the situ­
5 Dog's "dogs" 

make changes to that important ation carefully to avoid confusion
20 Twinkies maker 51 Storybook bear 
6 Son of Seth 

proposal you have been working and uncertainty. Give your mate
21 White-haired 55 Went down the 7 Cabinet Dept. space.000
on. You may run into pastfellow, maybe easy way 8 Part of a roof acquaintances through work­SAGlTfARIUS (NIN 22-Dec. 21): 22 Where a brood 59 With ice cream related functions. Be polite. 00 You can make career changes that
9 Hush-hush

is raised TAURUS (April 20-May 20): will help turn your financial
62 See 39-Across 
10 Phaser setting, 

Negotiations with clients will lead situation around. Believe in your­
23 Visible 
64 Lee or Musial 

on "Star Trek" to new and interesting develop­self and so will all those you24 Berth place 65 • a 11 Impressed ments. You can pick up valuable encounter. You should start your 27 Conversation-Symphony" information if you listen to what own part-time business. 00000
12 [I'm shocked! 

alist (1965 hit) others say. Read between the lines CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan.19):
Shocked!) 

and put yourself in their shoes What a great time to make those 13 Peak in Greek before you make a decision. 000 changes you've been thinkingANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE myth GEMINI (May 21-June 20): about. You need an updated 18 Math groups Hidden assets are likely to be image that will help you present
Pume by Slaftn Oorfman

P A S T ......,.....,......,.. 19 Covered with cashed in. Take care of le~al .IIlllt­yourself and your goals with 
32 Punch tools 53 Lecterns 59 21-Across of ters that have been holding you more confidence. 000
E U wool 
_6-Down back. ne up those loose ends so AQUARIUS Oan. 20-Feb. 18):
P A ...+~:-:fo=~ E O 23 Homo sapiens, 33 Ex-head of Iran 54 Fix to suit that you get back on track. 0000 You will experience difficulties ....+....+-~E::+,R.-1 -for example 34 The Green 55 Price 60 It's plucked CANCER Oune 21-July 22): with people you have to work .............E... 25 Syllables Hornet's valet 56 Knowing about 61 Peepers Don't be drawn into uncomfort­with. Try to understand, but meaning •r 35 Awaken able situations. Someone from don't do the work for them.
57 Leaving a small 
63 Abbr. after your past is likely to come back Don't let others' complaints get
forgot 1he words" 

37 Participated in a opening some military into your life. Don't be afraid to youdown.0026 Sammy Davis choir 58 Dispatched names open that door again. 00 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20):
~~;f.,;...f Jr.'s "Yes_• LEO Ouly 23-Aug. 22): Expect Pleasure trips will tum out bet­
40 Completely

~.;;-.;;.a..;~;..i 26 Lion, for MGM, opposition from family as well as ter than you anticipated. You
41 •_, you're it!" 

e.g. A.nswers to any three clues in this puzzle your colleagues. Keep your ideas need to relax and let your imagi· 46 Attempt to are available by touch-tone phone: to yourself. Keep your own work nation treat you to a medley of
s I 29 Fort _ (gold 
up to date, and don't worry too fantasies. 000
site) mediate t-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
much about what others are 
A R N .,..+,~~+.-,,~ 30 Fictional Jane 48 Small fight A.nnual subscriptions are available for the B I E N N T 31 They're caught 50 Gem State best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 Birthday Baby: If you set your mind on something, nothing will stand ill. your way. You're a leader ill. the making and are determined
INRE ENTE onbeaches 52 Love, in livomo years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
to go to the necessary lengths to do, say and attain what you want (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvke.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
c, 2001 Universal Pless Syndicate

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 


.,, 
:::u 
.
z 

No-t:re Dar,,e A 
9 
fT1 
() 
~ 
en 
-I

B»all State 0. 
-
C 
~ 

rr 
0:: 
..:( 
s 


~ Notre Dar,,e 
(Tl 
9
n 
~ 
ru 

l­

4: Dayton
0
-
::, :E 


P"'---------------------------------------------" 
On to nationals
-
It only took senior All-American Ryan Shay one outdoor meet to 
qualify for Nationals once again. 
Shay earned an automatic spot 
in the 10,000-meter run, leading 
the Irish track andfield teams. 
PORTS 
O
THE 

page 20 BSERVER Tuesday, April 3, 2001 


WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Johnson replaces Milligan for Belles 
By KATIE McVOY 
Assouatc Spores Edi tm 
Athletic director Lynn Kachmarik announced last week the athletic department 
.. hired Bobbv Johnston of McLean. Va., to take the helm of the Belles' soccer program. McLean replaces two-year head coach Jason Mulligan, who resigned at the end of the 2000 season. 
Johnston, who was named "All-Metropolitan Coach of the Year" by the Washington Post in 2000, spent the last two years as the varsity girls' soccer head coach at Potomac High School. During Johnston's time at Potomac, the girls' soccer team fin­ished fourth in the Washington Post's Top 10 Hanking and won the Independent School League AA Title and Tournament Championship. The team fin­ished the season 14-3-2. .Johnston was named NSCAA Virginia Private School Girls' Coach of the Year in 1999. 
Johnston is excited about the transition to coaching in a college program. 
"l 've been coaching high school and younger women for six or seven years, and have been training Division I athletes lo get ready for their college program," Johnston said. "The game or soccer is the game of soccer. I'm going to teach the game." 
Johnstnn takes over at a critical point in the Belles' soccer program, as the team struggled to a 3-13-1 overall record and 3-10-1 record in the MIAA last fall. Working on attitude and goal setting will be two of the aspects Johnston will focus on to boost the team's record. 
"I definitely want to be realistic," Johnston said. "The team wants to have a better season. Attitude will be a big factor -when they step onto the field. they have lo believe in themselves. I think they lost a few close games last year because they didn't believe in themselves." 
Players ,rnd administrators are exrited about Johnson joining the Saint Mary's soc­
...... 
cer program. 
"LJohnstonl is going to be an excellent addition to our program," team captain lleather Muth said. "!Ie is very enthusiastic and more than willing to do whatever he can to take our program to the next level." 
"[Johnston's] enthusiasm, his knowledge. his work ethic and his commitment to excel­lence is what this program wants and what this program needs," Kachmarik said . 
"I think that [Johnston) brings to this [program] a level of expertise that we've not had before," Kachmarik said...He has great experi­ence with women athletes and high goals." 
Players will look to use Johnston·s experience and enthusiasm as a benefit to the Saint Mary's program. 
"I think his best quality is his energetic personality," Muth said. ''I'm truly impressed by how quickly he assumed the role of our new coach and it's obvious that he is really dedicated to our team." 
Johnston's dedication is already surfacing. Division Ill teams are allowed to have a spring training session and Johnston has taken advan­tage of that allowance, flying in from Washington D.C. sev­eral times to work with the team. 
"Coach is sincerely inter­ested in turning our program around and he has already done a lot of work to prepare for our fall season," Muth said. 
In addition to his coaching skills, Johnston will also be reaching out to the commu­nity. While at Potomac, Johnston founded Kicks for Kids, providing non-competi­tive, co-educational instruc­tion. 
Johnston will be coming to South Bend with his wife, who will be teaching at Stanley Clark Elementary. 
Johnston attended James Madison University, where he played Division I soccer and earned his undergradu­ate degree in finance. He holds a graduate degree in education from Shenandoah University. 
Johnston will be joined by assistant coach Lisa Reinke. Reinke will also be in her first year as a coach at Saint Mary's, although not in her first year at Saint Mary's. Reinke graduated from Saint Mary's in 1997 where she played soccer for the Belles. 
"[Heinke] will complement the staff with her connections to the communitv," Kachmarik said. · 

Rockne's legend lives on 

Photo courtesy of Sports Information 

Famed Notre Dame football coach Knute Rockne (above) died In a plane crash 70 years ago last Saturday. Rockne remains among the most-revered figures In Notre Dame history. 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Associate Sports Editor 
Seventy years ago last Saturday. a small plane plummeted through the night clouds hanging over Kansas. spinning end over end. One wing had fallen off, and a trail of smoke followed the plane through the sky. It continued its dive until it plunged into the ground, instantly killing all eight passengers aboard. 
One of them was Knute Rockne. 

News of the legendary Notre Dame football coach's death rocked the world. llis funeral was broadcast over the radio in Europe and Asia. The king of Norway even knighted Rockne posthumously. Studebaker imme­diately halted production of the Rockne Sedan Six 65 automobile when news of the tragedy hit newspapers across the America. 
The man had died. The legend was just beginning to live. 
Rockne was alreadv a hero in American culture before his plane crashed. He was a few months off leading the Notre Dame football team to the 1930 national cham­pionship. When he died at the age of 43, he was on his way to Hollywood to negotiate a deal about a film documentary. 
"In my opinion he was what you would call a straight, honest man and he liked to win football games," said 83-year-old Easter Heathman, one of only three peo­ple alive today who saw the man­gled wreckage of Rockne's plane in person. 
Saying Rockne liked to win foot­ball games is like saying Father Hesburgh was a decent University president. In Rockne's 12 years as the head coach, he posted a 105­12-5. His 88 percent winning per­centage, impressive in the 1930s, is considered untouchable by most of today's Division I coaches. 
In the 1920s, an era when 
see ROCKNE/page 14 

WOMEN'S GOLF 
Irish win William and Mary Invite 
By BRIAN BURKE Spam Writer 
The women's golf team earned its second tournament championship of the 2000-01 season on Sunday, winning the William and Mary Invitational with a 36-hole mark of 626. The Irish managed to come out on top over William and Mary by five strokes and first round co•leader, Elon College by six on the 5,821-yard, par 71 Ford's Colony Country Club course. 
Notre Dame's other tourna­ment win came at the Notre Dame Invitational in October. 
Three freshmen placed in the top nine for the Irish. led by freshman Shannon Byrne, who tied for fourth place, with a 36­hole total of 151 on rounds of 76 and 75. 
lier performance was four shots behind the tournament medalist, Ann Schnell of William and Marv, who fired a five-over par 147 • for the week­end. Byrne's fourth place tie and the 36-hole total of 151 were career bests for the fresh­man golfer. 
"The course was pretty wet." said Byrne. "It played well the 
see GOU/page JG 

Sofrball ar Indiana at Baylor at Purdue Wednesday, 3 p.m. Friday, 9 p.m.
""-r.,J "•,==::•.,
SPORTS r.\l ~-1
Today, 2 p.m. 

Women's LacrosseATA vs. Connecticut
Baseball 
Softball 

vs. Ball Sme Men's Lacrosse Sunday, l p.m. 
vs. Albion 

Today, 5:05 r,.m. vs. Denver
GLANCE e •
Wednesday, 3:30 p.m. 
Saturday. 4:30 p.m. 
• 





