
Ani Difranco 
ND law school rankings take a dip 
Check oul Scene's review ofin die rock queen 
A ND law student expresses concern over the 
Tue ay
Ani Difranco's newest double album. 
U.S. News and World Report rating, placing the 
Reveling and Reckoning. 
school even farther behind the competition. 
APRIL 10,
Viewpoint . page 11
Scene . page 11 
2001 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO.120 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

Saint Mary's names commencement speaker 
of diversity for NBC, making deliver a message that is rel­Award. After moving into the career with a long history of
By KERRY SMITH 
the 1974 Vassar College evant to the seniors," said television sphere of communi­service. 
t'-:ew, Writer 
graduate the first African­Eldred. "We try to pick some­cations as vice president and She currently is involved in Amerir,an woman to become one who will really provide a nows director at WNBC, an several volunteer organiza­Paula Madison, president a general manager at a net­challenge to NBC flagship tions, including the Center for and general manager of work-owned station in a top­the class." station in Public Integrity, a non-profit
"Each year we try to
KNBC-TV in Los Angeles, will five market. Madison has New York, agency based in Washington,
pick someone who is
deliver the Commencement "She is one of the few a long history "Crain's New D. C. address at women in the position she of success in known to be a good Y o r k The process of picking a Saint I\Iary's has," College President the communi­speaker who will Business" speaker is always a long one graduation Marilou Eldred said. "And as cations field. n a m e d for the Saint Mary's adminis­
deliver a message that 
ceremony, far as we can tell, she holds She began Madison one tration. the College the highest rank of any her career as a is relevant to the of New York's The College first solicits announced minority person in her field." newspaper 100 Top nominations and suggestions
seniors.

in a press An active volunteer in the reporter, earn­Minority and then the Office of release national community, Eldred ing awards Executives, Academic Affairs narrows Monday. hopes Madison will be able to including the Marilou Eldred before mov­down and approves a short In addi­deliver a relevant address to Ellis Island Saint Mary's President ing on to her list of five to ten candidates. tion to her this year's graduating class. Medal of Honor current posi-Eldred then makes the final duties at "Each year we try to pick and the tion. decision depending on a vari­KNBC-TV. Madison also someone who is known to be National Association of Black Madison has complimented ety of factors including serves as the vice president a good speaker who will Ida B. Wells Journalists' a successful professional speaker availability and cost. 


BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Board creates focus groups on women's issues, concerns 

By COLLEEN McCARTHY Assistam News Editor 
Focus groups designed to ask students what kind of programming they want to see surrounding issues of women's sexu­ality, health and violence against women have not generated as much participa­tion as the administration hoped for, reported Linda Timm, vice president of student affairs to the Saint Mary's Board of Governance. 
"We decided to have these focus groups because of the dialogue that began surrounding the 'Vagina Monologues' and we wanted to continue that dialogue on issues of women's sexu­ality, health and violence against women. We wanted to get their thoughts, suggestions and ideas," said Timm. 
About 345 students were selected ran­domly from all four classes at Saint 
Mary's and given an invitation to participate in the groups. As of Monday, of a possible 145 students who could have attended sessions so far, onlv seven stu­dents have attended. 
··we wanted to target the broadest context of students we could get and l would like to see a larger number of stu­dents attend the remain­ing sessions," said Timm. 
Dame club would pro­

"We decided to have 
vide other opportunities 

these focus groups 
in addition to those because ofthe dialogue offered by Thespians 
Unplugged.

surrounding the 
Thespians Unplugged 

'Vagina Monologues."' serves as a club for Saint Mary's students, especially those in the
Linda Timm 
theater department

vice president of student 
who support perfor­

affairs at Saint Mary's 
mances at Saint Mary's 

Timm added that noontime sessions are also being held allowing students who did not receive the original invita­tions to sign up and attend. 
Once the infonnation from the sessions is gathered and the final session has been held, Timm, along with a group of five other individuals from the College, including one student, will meet to look over the data. They hope to determine common themes that surfaced repeated­ly to determine what direction to take with programming. 
'Tm stumped as to how else to get peo­pie to attend the sessions," said Timm. 
After a discussion last week regarding whether the Board would recognize the Notre Dame Student Players as a Saint Mary's club, the Board invited Lindsay Landvogt of the Saint Mary's Thespians Unplugged Club to offer her insights regarding recognition of the Notre Dame theater group. 
Board members raised concerns at the last meeting that the Saint Mary's club was approved last fall and that recogniz­ing the Notre Dame club could take away from participants in the Saint Mary's group. 
"We are still such a young club and are trying to get our feet planted and it's hard to get people involved," said Landvogt. "I hate to say it, but if Saint Mary's students see there is a similar club at Notre Dame, they might be more likely to join that club instead of ours." 
On the other hand, Landvogt said that 
recognizing the Notre 
and attend perfor­mances together off-campus. 
"I can't predict what approving the Notre Dame club would do to our group," said Landvogt. 
The Board tabled making a decision on further action until the April 23 Board meeting. 
In other news: 
. The Executive Board of BOG discussed creating a grant system for co-sponsor­ships because the Board is approached for money so frequently from various 
see BOG/page 4 


Tuesday, April I0, 200 I

INSIDE COLUMN 
Burrito 

Revolution 
As the recently self-appointed chief connois­

seur of campus burrito affairs, I felt obligated to 
let everyone know what has happened since my 
article ran in the paper two Fridays ago. My 
scathing criticism of the Huddle Mart, as well as 
the protest that ensued, has 
returnedjustice to the world. 
We stormed into the Huddle 
Friday afternoon, with our 
signs declaring slogans like 
"Bring back Little Juan!" and 
"Why have you taken my 
soul away?" 
Little Juan is not back on 

his shelf, as my group of 15 
protesters demanded, but in 
his place was placed our 
new best friend, "El 
Monterey: Half Pound Beef 
and Bean burrito." We obvi­
ously took our small. deter­
mined force and angrily 
demanded thatjustice be 
returned to the Huddle Mart. and we backed 
management into a corner, and there was much 
celebrating as they signed the order form to put 
El Monterey onto the shelf. This was an unfore­
seen twist, and not a bad one. One fellow burrito 
rights activist, John [name wil.hheld for fear of 
reprisal], declared El Monterey to be responsible 
for making 'The bomb burrito." 
However, there is a point to this. I was just kidding. There was no revolt in the Huddle Mart. I did write a thing about Little Juan burritos, and I was warmly surprised when I saw a new burri­to product on the shelf last night where Little Juan used to be. I would like to think that my article might have inspired the Huddle Mart to purchase frozen burritos for the student popu­lace. Which I would find ironic, because I think many students here would vomit at the notion of eating 65percent of your daily fat allowance in one greasy burrito sitting. 
What I find somewhat misguided is the Student Farm workers Alliance protest of Taco Bell this past weekend. There is a way to bring about change in the world. and pissing oITmaybe 16 poor fast food employees is not the best way to evoke change. Granted, the NDSFA did give those who read the article in last Thursday's viewpoint section the option of writing directly to Taco Bell management, which I think is a good way to show your displeasure for a company, if they receive enough letters. Another thing to keep in mind is that it's not like Taco Bell is the only corporation that exploits migrant farm workers. When you walk into the supermarket, do you think that all the produce there was picked by migrant farm workers that make decent wages? Migrants are used to pick pro­duce because employers don't have to pay them substantial wages. Taco Bell isn't con­cerned with how they get their produce as long as it's cheap and not fully rotten. Taco Bell is concerned with making tacos. Taco Bell needs to learn to be concerned with their produce sources. 
The plight of migrant farm workers is truly something to be concerned about. Bringing about a change for them is going to take a little more than spending one Sunday afternoon at Taco Bell making noise and annoying people that just want to get some cheap fast food. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Adam Turner 
Web Administrator 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Kiflin Turner Sam Ocrheimer Myra McGriff Chris Scott Finn Presley Graphics Sports Karie McKenna Lauren Cami 
Production 
Bryan Kronk 
Rachael Protzman 
Viewpoint 
Lab Tech Kurt Bogaard Naomi Cordell 

The Observet (USl'S 59, 2-4000) is published Monday ,hrough Ftiday except during exam and vacation p,riods. The Observer is a member of the Associarcd Prcsi. All reproduction ,ighu arc reserved. 
NEW MEXICO STATE UNIVERSITY 
Students battle over gender roles 
I.AS CRUCES, N.M 
The gender of Homecoming King and Queen is an issue once again as the Associated Students of New Mexico State University prepares to hear arguments for and against distinguishing which gender can run for which position. The issue now appears in the form of Bill 106 sponsored by Senators Esteban Rael [Graduate]. Heather Johnson [Arts & Sciences] and Matthew Peterson [Arts & Sciences]. Despite being tabled in the Community Affairs Committee, the bill's sponsors plan on addressing the issue at Thursday's Senate meeting. This issue arose in 1999 when Aaron Schubert, a male member of Lesbians, Gays, Bisexuals and Friends, ran for Homecoming Queen. Shortly after Schubert's campaign, ASNMSU passed Bill 34, which requires king and queen candidates to be male and female respectively. Rael said it is not an issue of gay rights, but an issue of expression. "If this is meant to target any group of individuals, which I believe the current law does, then that's creating inequality on campus," said Rael. 
QUOTES OF THE WEEK  
"It is goodfor us to  "This is my team. I'm  "It was kind ofcreepy  "This has gotta be a  
be driven from time to  the captain, I'm the  at first, but then it  once in a lifetime  
time, to rake up the  leader. This is my  became sad. These  opportunity . There's  
roots ofour activity. "  home town and I was  were people just like  no way I would miss  
Eva Brann  willing to do  us with lives and and  it. It ·s great just to be  
St. John's College  whatever I could for  friends andfamily. "  a part ofthis. "  
Professor  this team."  Brett Perkins  Nick Setta,  
Nlele Ivey  Appalachia seminar  on women's national  
Irish point guard  participant  championship  

Compiled from U-Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Cornell University addresses human traffick-
ITHACA, N.Y. "Women are plundered like Literature. She stated women's abil­
Trafficking human beings is now 
ity to obtain property was largely

the precious metals ... ofthe
the third largest source of profits for hindered by the rise of orga,niz~d
organized crime, behind drugs and former Soviet Union," ~rime. "Women wcr_e physically arms trafficking. generating billions barred from auction o( state proper­of dollars annually. ty by leaders of organized crime,"
Lousle Shelly 
The former Soviet Union is the Shelley said. 
director, Transnational Crime and
largest new source of traflicking for Further adding to the impoverish­
Corruption Center at American
prostitution and the sex industry, ment of women was the loss of the with more than 100,000 women and University social safety net. After the collapse of children trafficked each year from the Soviet Union, they lost all their that region, according to the U.S. social benefits such as childcare.
Literature. The talk was presented
Department of State. summer camps and other programs.
by Louise Shelley '72, director of the
This was the topic of "Trafficking she said.
Transnational Crime and Corruption
in Human Beings: Russian Organized "Women had few economic alter­
Center at American University. 
Crime in Comparative Perspective," natives left," Shelley said. They
Shelley called her lecture "a fitting
one of the lectures given at the con­"retained a sense of responsibility
tribute to George," who died in 1999
ference at Cornell University held in to provide for their families, and 
when he was a member of the facul­
honor of the late George Gibian, the they were therefore vulnerable to Goldwin Smith Professor of Russian ty in the Departments of Russian financial offers from the traffick­Literature and Comparative Literature and Comparative ers." 

Vif,!\te;CllQO!ecfP19as 
Atlanta 86 65 Las Vegas Ballimore 65 52 Memphis Boston 47 34 Milwaukee Chicaoo 58 50 New York Houston 83 72 Philadelphia 
AMERICAN UNIVERSITY 
Technology used to peak interest 
WASHINGTON 

An increasing number of universities. including American University, are making use of new computer technology like "bubble" images to show off their cam­puses to prospective students. Bubble images offer prospective students 360-degree views of campuses and are becoming an important part of many online virtual tours. Virtual tours have been around for sev­eral years, but the new bubble images allow students to view many areas that could not be seen in the past through still photos. The images are created by a cam­era with a fisheye lens that is mounted on a special tripod, which is developed by Internet Pictures or iPix creates the new images. The tripod rotates at 180-degrees and shoots photos from many different angles. Students at AU think the new technology is a good way to give future college students a view of campuses. "I think its a good idea, as long as it gives an accurate depiction of the school," AU junior Lauren Unger said. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
The AccuWeathere forecast for noon, Tuesday, April 1o.
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
30s Lines separate high temperature zones fOJ the day 
FFIONTS:
...................... 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
60 46 Portland 55 39 84 66 Sacramento 68 47 50 43 St. Louis 74 62 58 47 Tampa 86 66 62 49 Washington DC 69 57 

Tuesday, April l 0, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Oufkir to discuss iD1prisonD1ent 
N_D library adds rare 
. Daughter speaks est daughter of to alert the media of their Mohammed Oufkir, who cruel treatment. The fami­
Middle English books
on her family's 15-was the most powerful ly was known to have dis­year imprisonment man in Morocco next to.. appeared, but little else 
preparing one's soul for

Special to the Observer 
the king from 1961 until was known at the time. 
death.

1972, when he was exe­"Because of an all-con­
By MARIBEL MOREY 
Two folios of Latin ora­

cuted for a failed attempt suming fear of the king
Assistant News Editor 
The University of Notre tions to the Virgin Mary are 
to overthrow King Hassan (Hassan II), no one ever 
Dame Libraries has acquired located between these two
II. ri10ntioned them during 
an extraordinary Middle works.
Malika Oufkir, daughter 
"She could have allowed the years of their impris­
English manuscript and The manuscript served as
of General Mohammed 
herself to be crushed by onment," said Perry. "The added an important a devotional manual for th.e
Oufkir and author of 
her years in prison but, Oufkir name was anathe­
Jonathan Swift library to its laity and was intended for"Stolen Lives," will make 
with admirable strength ma and never spoken, 
Irish .holdings. use by a devout woman. It
her first 
and courage she managed even in private conversa­Attributed to circa 1430s was made for Elizabeth
visit to the 
to overcome her fate by tions at home." 
England, the rare Middle Chaworth, the wife of John,
United 
being active ·rather than On Wednesday Oufkir 
English m~nuscript is writ­Fourth Baron Scrope of
S t a t e s 
passive," said Catherine will speak about what it 
ten in an easy-to-read, semi­Marsham, whose coat ofWednesday 
Perry, associate French means to be alone, aban­
cursive gothic script on arms it contains.
to facili­
professor. ''She was the doned, without hope, hun­
high-grade vellum. The second acquisition is a
tate a dis­kevstone to her family's gry and sick for years. 
Consisting of 12 7 folios collection of books that
cussion at survival -she is very "I would say that Malika 
and an opening page illumi­reproduce the library once
N o t r e 
resourceful and creative." Oufkir has looked death in nated with an armorial ini­owned by Jonathan Swift,
Dame's In 1958, at the time of the face, day after day, 
tial and an elaborate full­the Anglo-Irish author. who
Ilesburgh Hassan II's father's reign, and that is something not 
page border, the manuscript was the foremost prose
Center. Oufkir five-year-old Oufkir was many people get a chance 
probably was produced at a satirist in the English lan­
The dis-adopted by the King to to do," said Perry. 
Carlhusian monastery. guage.
cussion, which will be held serve as a companion for Also presenting 
Middle English manu­The collection is composed
at 4: 15 p.m. in the audito­his own daughter, the Wednesday will be Susan 
scripts are extremely rare of more than 150 rare edi­
rium of the Hesburgh princess. In her book, Slyomovics the Genevieve 
and one such as this very tions, most printed in the
Center, will center around " St oI e n L iv e s , " 0 u fk ir Mc Mi 11 an• Reh a Stewa rt 
well-preserved and illumi­17th century, and also
Oufkir's book La describes her life in the Professor of the study of 
nated work, containing two includes many secondary
Prisonniere. palace, the King's abuse women in the developing' complete Middle English works on Swift.
The 1999 European best and her ultimate imprison­world and the chair of the texts, is viewed as extraordi­The library was compiled
seller cronicals Oufkir's ment alongside her mother department of anthropolo­
nary. by the noted Swift scholar
family 20 year imprison­and her younger brothers gy at MIT. 
The first text, called "A Heinz J. Vienken and costment. and sisters for her father's Her areas of research 
Myrrour to Devote Peple," more than $100,000.
Oufkir spent 15 years of assassination attempt. and teaching are the 
survives in this and only one The collection enhancesher life imprisoned in While imprisoned, four expressive culture of the 
other manuscript, currently the Notre Dame Libraries'
appalling conditions_ in of her siblings were able Middle East and North located in the Cambridge already strong holdings of
Morocco after her father to escape by digging a tun­Africa, gender studies and University Library. 
early editions by Swift and

attempted to assassinate nel through the wall. In human rights, and the The other major text, 
complements its outstanding

the king. the four days before their overlap between oral and 
called ·"The Tretise of the collections on George
Malika Oufkir is the old-recapture, they were able written literature. 
Craft or' Dying," survives in Berkeley and Edward Burke. 


SUMMER 2002 
Four and a halfweeks for six hours of academic credit (May 1 s -June 1 6) 
Boottca ttoo deadline ror early admission is Rori/ 1 6. ZEJB 1. 
INFORlvIATION ~EETING 
Wednesday~ April I I~ 2001 
7:00 p~ 
LOCATION: ROOM 138-DEBARTOLO 
(Those interested in Sum.mer 2003 are also invited) 
Or call 1-5203 (International Studies Office) for an application and program information 
BOG 
continued from page 1 
groups, said Michelle Nagle, student body presi­dent. 
The co-sponsorships will be divided into four cate­gories: service, acarfomir/ed ucation, charity and campus programming. 
·"(laving these four cate­gories with a designated range of funding will make 

. our job easier and help without consistencv and credibility when it con1es to giving co-sponsorships," said Nagle. 
The system will not go in to place until the fall. 
. A retreat will be hold on Sept. & to bring together officers or various campus organizations to try to cre­ate morn collaboration in scheduling or various events, said Timm. 
"We've struggled a lot with having lols or events going on at the same time and trying to get students to att1rnd the events is tough." said Timm. 
"If we bring together all of theso student organiza­tions, hupefully we can develop some sort or collab­orative effort so that tho groups can pool their resources of time, people, and financial resources so that the groups can pro­gram with each other. not against each other." 



Cruz urges Latinos to puruse college degrees 
By MYRA McGRIFF 
Saint Mary's Editor 
In Monday's lecture, "Benefits and importance of education for the Latin com­munity," Miriam Cruz, for­mer Deputy Assistant to President Carter for Hispanic Affairs, outlined a successful career for young Latinos. 
Through examples of work she has done over the years, Cruz stressed the need for Latinos to go to college in order reach success. Cruz, who was born in San Juan. Puerto Rico and attended college in both the United States and Puerto Rico, start­ed working with children in Chicago. She noticed a trend among those kids she helped -they wanted to disassoci­ate themselves from their culture and home life. 
"A young man said to me 'I don't like rice and beans,' but times have past. But you know what hasn'l changed, a college education can go far,'' said Cruz. 
Giving full emphasis to the benefits of a college educa­tion for young Latinos, espe­cially women, Cruz discussed how to bridge the divide between Spanish speaking parents and their children. 
Cruz spoke to a concern in the Latino community: that some parents do not see a difference between their children going away and staying at home and work­ing. 
Cruz said that for women in the Latino communitv leaving home only happens once they are married. BowevN, because she sees businesses ·like Motorola expanding into Latin coun­tries, Spanish and multicul­tural peoples have an oppor­tunity to thrive in today's economy. 
"What do you think (com­panies] need? Bilingual and multicultural people that understand the needs of the area," Cruz said 
To get Spanish speaking parents to understand the connection b.etween college and success. Cruz provided a solution. The answer rersts in community involvement within the realm mentoring. 
"We ne~d to have more parents from the community get involved to help parents understa'nd," said Cruz. 
With parent involvement from the community Cruz hopes that other mentoring and programming for the young Latino community will flourish. 


McVeigh has last chance to seek stay of execution 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Timothy McVeigh's last chance to ask for a stay of exe­cution will be two hours before he's scheduled to die, when he will be allowed to meet with his lawyers for the last time. 
Justice Department orficials. speaking on condition of anonymity Monday, described parts of an elaborate process to handle any last-minute legal interruptions of McVeigh's exe­cution, scheduled for May 16 at a federal prison in Terre Haute, Ind. 
McVeigh was sentenced to die for the 1995 bombing of the Oklahoma City federal building. killing 168 people. 
Visits by family members and attorneys will be curtailed two hours ahead of the execution, olTicials said. If McVeigh wants his lawyers to ask a judge or the president for a stay, he must do so at that linal meet­ing. Prison officials won't con­sider a request for a delay by McVeigh after that. officials said. 
Prison officials at the execu­tion command center. set up at the Terre Haute prison to coor­dinate security among state. federal and local law enforce-
CORRECTIONS 

. 
In Monday's article about lhe !light to Life Conference, Population Research Institute president Steve Mosher's name was mis­spelled. 

. 
The days and times listed 



ment agencies and handle all procedural matters, will make last-minute phone calls to the White House and check with several courts to see whether McVeigh's lawyers have filed any requests to stop the execu­tion. 
Calls will go out to the White House and the courts 45 min­utes before the execution; the last ones will be made with 10 minutes to go. Officials oversee­ing the execution can also be reached in the execution room -up to the moment that the executioner is to administer the lethal injection -if a delay is ordered. 
According to an "Execution Protocol" manual written by the 
U.S. Bureau of Prisons, the U.S. marshal assigned to the execu­tion room "will instruct the Executioner(s) to step away from the execution equipment and will notify the condemned individual and all present that the execution has been stayed or delayed." 
McVeigh ordered his attor­neys not to file further appeals in January and asked that a date be set for his execution. But he could still seek clemency from the White House or instruct his lawyers to seek a stay. 
The government has not exe­
in yesterday's Observer for the Senior Art Comprehensives were incor­rect. The exhibit was held this weekend. 
The Observer regrets any errors. 
cuted a federal prisoner in 37 announce whether to allow ment they want to see the exe­years. Procedures for handling closed-circuit televisions at the cution. Ashcroft will meet with federal executions have recent­execution so victims and their the families in Oklahoma City ly been finalized and will families can yiew McVeigh's Tuesday before announcing a applied for the first time in the death. decision on Wednesday. He has McVeigh execution. About 250 people who were indicated a commitment to 
Meanwhile, Attorney General injured or lost loved ones in the "meeting the needs of these John Ashcroft is poised to bombing have told the govern-families." 
~~t/1~~~ 
Mom always said... 
don't talk with your mouth full. 
look both ways before you cross the street. 
say please and THANK YOU! 
~~~q~b 

, Hey seniors, can't think of a good way to thank your parents? We've got it! SENIOR "THANK YOU" PLAQUES 
• 
Two lines of personalization 

• 
Each plaque costs$ 45.00 

• 
Look for us on: 


• Tues, April 10th Senior Signups 10-5pm LaFun • Wed.April 11 th 11-lpmMCoB-LASTDAY!! 
Please pick aline of personalization: 
o "Thank you Mom and Dad" 
o "Thank you, Mom" 
o "Thank you, Dad" 

. "Thank you, [Other] ($5 charge. Must> 22 characters including spaces) 
This year's quotation: 
Name: (As it will appear on the plaque) 
School address: City, State: 
Zip: Phone: Email: 

"Education is not the filling of a bucket, it is the lighting of a fire." -William Butler Yeats Thank you [your choiceJfor providing the spark. For more information check out: http:l/www.nd.edu/~mgtclub 
Please make checks payable to the ND Management Club, 200 Lafortune, Notre Dame, IN 46556 







ATION 
Tuesday, April I 0, 200 I COMPILED I-ROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERV(CES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Vietnam Politburo supports leader. 
Vietnam's top leader appears to have defeated an effort to remove him from power, a party ollicial said Sunday. Twelve of the 18 members of the powerful Politburo have thrown their sup­port behind Communist Party General Secretary Le Kha Phieu during a three-clay meeting of the Central Committee that began Saturday, the official said on condition of anonymity. 
Duchess quits job: Prince Edward's wife has given up her job after being stung by a tabloid reporter, giving fresh courage to those who want to slim down or abolish the monar• rhy. "The magic I'm afraid has gone. The day­light has come in. We now have to decide how and why we can make constitutional monarchy work," lawmaker Tony Wright told British Broadcasting Corp. radio Monday. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Midwest braces for floods: Crews worked Monday to raise levees against rising streams in the eastern Dakotas and Minnesota, where flooding already had blocked highways and washed out rural roads. More rain was forecast this week. the National Weather Service said, adding to heavy weekend rain and rapidly melting snow. 
Experimental plane crashes: An experimental plane crashed in Canon City, Colo., shortly after takeoff Sunday, killing the pilot and a passenger. Gary Mayer, regional operations officer with the Federal Aviation Administration in Washington, said investiga­tors would examine the crash Monday. The plane went down soon after leaving the Fremont County airport about 100 miles south of Denver. Mayer could not identify the two people killed. He said the plane was experimen­tal but did not say what make it was. It was not known if anyone else was on board. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Plane makes emergency landing: A 
Trans World Express commuter plane carrying 32 people from Lexington. Ky., to St. Louis made an emergency landing Sunday morning at Evansville Regional Airport when one of its two turboprop engines failed. City firefighters and airport safety personnel stood by as the Saab 340 touched down about 10:40 a.m. Oil could be seen dripping from the plane's failed left engine, but the aircraft taxied under its own power to the terminal, said airport assistant manager Gene Olson. The plane will remain at Evansville until repairs are completed, he said. 
Market Watch April 9 
Dow 9,845.15 +54.06 
Composite
]~ Same: 
Volume: ~ 207 
NIA 
AMEX: 871.02 +11.46 NASDAQ: 1,745.71 +2i35 NYSE: 587.69 -t4.<x5 S&P 500: 1,137.59 +9.56 
TOPS VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY ¾CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +6.35 +0.87 14.49 INTEL CORP (INTC) -1.80 -0.43 23. 20 NASDAQ 100 INDX (QQQ) +2. 07 +0.75 37 .05 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) -7.78 -1.10 13.04 MOTOROLA rNC (MOT) +0.00 +0.00 11. 50 
HAITI 

Associated Press 
PORT-AU-PRINCE 
Supporters of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide blocked traffic with llam­
i.n g tire barricades Monday, demanding new talks between the govern­ment and the opposition. 
The protests coincided with a visit Monday from Organization of American States Assistant Secretary-General Luigi Einaudi to try to bring both sides together. 
The pro-Aristide demon­strators blocked traffic in at least three neighbor­hoods in and around Port­Au-Pri.nce, demanding the reopening of negotiations that were suspended when Aristide was inau­gurated on Feb. 7. 
Aristide has sai!l he wel­comes more talks, but the opposition has rejected offers of joining the gov­ernment, saying Aristide's victory was illegitimate because of fraudulent elections. 
The government did not immediately re·act to Monday's protests, but it has condemned violence, blaming the opposition for provoking it. Last week, Aristide appealed for a "truce" wjth the opposi­tion. 
Since March 14, when 
Aristide supporters dis­rupted a peaceful opposi­tion demonstration in front of the city's OAS headquarters, political violence has left three dead and scores injured across Haiti. 
"Recent tensions are a clear sign that an immedi• ate dialogue among all Haitians is overdue," said Einaudi. 
Opposition politician Sauveur Pierre Etienne said he thought Monday's protests launched by Aristide militants were timed to show the OAS that negotiations had to be under Aristide's terms.· 
The OAS has been 
unable in two previous attempts to facilitate a resolution of the crisis, which has divided Haiti's leadership since last year, when the opposition charged that some local and legislative elections were rigged to favor Aristide's Lavalas Family party. 
The OAS said 10 Senate races should have gone to runoffs. As a result mil­lions of dollars in interna­tional aid to Haiti has been suspended. 
The 15-party opposition alliance Convergence boy­cotted the election that returned Aristide to the presidency in N ovembi\r. 
Diplomats move toward resolution 
lision with a Chinese fighter jet. should ... immediately stop all mili­
Associated Press 
The Liberation Army Daily also tary surveillance activities off the WASHINGTON, D.C. demanded an end to spy flights near Chinese coast." American diplomats pressed on China's coast. The paper's comments Meanwhile, crew members of the Sunday for daily access to a detained added to evidence that China's influ­U.S. Navy EP-3E were entering their 
U.S. air crew, while China's top mili­ential military is pushing for a hard second week of captivity on Hainan tary newspaper said Beijing had the line against Washington and might island in the South China Sea. right to "thoroughly investigate" the be obstructing a settlement. The The EP-3E is believed to have been 
crew members. newspaper is published by the mili­monitoring military radio. radar and 
China told U.S. diplomats they tary, and its contents are approved other signals when it collided with would be allowed to meet the by senior commanders. one of two Chinese fighter jets sent to American crew later Monday, ·"China has the right to fully and track it. The Chinese pilot is missing. although no details were provided on thoroughly investigate this entire The Chinese permitted U.S. diplo­
when. The meeting would be the incident, including the American mil­mats to meet with eight crew mem­fourth since the crew was detained itary aircraft and the people in bers Sunday, said Condoleezza Rice. after making an emergency landing charge of it," the Liberation Army the president's national security on Hainan Island after an April 1 col-Daily said. "The U.S. government adviser, on CNN's "Late Edition." 
----------~======----------------~­
GUATEMALA 
Police face uphill battle against skyrocketing crime 
Associated Pr~ss 
QUETZALTENANGO 
Seconds after three men with machine guns pulled off a lunchtinw robbery at her oil-change shop, Miram Hodas was on the phom~ to tlrn police. 
Fivc hours later she real­
ized no nfficrrs wero coming. 
"We saw the faccs of the criminals and we wern ready to describe thcm. But nobody came," said Hodas, co-owner of Cifuntes Oil. "Until sonrn­one dies. tbe police don't show up." 
l\1any pnoplP in Guatemala's second-largest city say Hodas was lucky ­at least she didn't gr,t a busy signal. 
At tlw end of March, an unpaid $13,000 bill led the phonP company to switch off four police phonP lines, leav­ing authorities in Quetzaltcnango with just one working emergency phone number. 
While officials insist the phones have been turned back on. an unpaid electrici­ty bill worth almost twice as much could eventually leave the city's 600 police officers in the dark. 
As crime continues to soar in this Central American nation, aulhorities say they don't have the -resources to keep the streets safe. 
The state does not keep 
reliable crime statistics. But Mutual Support Group, a human rights advocate, says 123 murders in the first three months of the year put Guatemala on the worst pace since the last year of a dev­astating civil war. 
Sin c e t h e war e11 d e d in December 1996, other human rights groups say rape is up 66 percent and instances of armed robbery · have nearly doubled. 
Qu.etzaltenango's police commander, Gerson Lopez, blames his force's finan­
"The criminals in 
cial woes on a capital, rule requiring Guatemala are better police Capt. all police Francisco
prepared then the 
spending to be Pivaral has
police."
approved in recom­Guatemala mended City, 125 miles that citizens
Fuastino Sanchez 
away. JOIO vigi­
national police force officer
"That slows l a n t e 
A carburetor from one of a dozen broken-down police trucks sits in a greasy heap on a bench next to a group of residents waiting to file criminal complaints. 
Such problems extend far beyond Quetzaltenango. In Guatemala City last month, the volunteer· fire depart­ment was left with just two of their eight emergency lines because of unpaid bills and aging phone lines. 
Meanwhile, in Sacatepequez, 20 miles out­
side the 
Guatemalan 
things down," Lopez said. "We are negotiating with the electric company. Maybe we can pay half of the bill now and the other half later." 
Inside the roach-infested former hospital that serves as the police barracks for this mountainous city of 20,000 people, the florescent lights are kept off during the day to save electricity. 
Officers clack out reports on manual typewriters because the station's only computer isn't working. 
groups to combat crime. 
Frustration over a lack of policing in rural, largely Indian areas has made Guatemala among the world leaders in mob killings. Since the end of the civil war, vigi­lante violence has killed 157 people. 
"The criminals in Guatemala are better pre­pared then the police," said Fuastino Sanchez, a spokesman for Guatemala's 18,366-officer national 
police force. "Of course we would like to have more resources, but we are doing all we can." 
The budget approved for the police force this year was $10.1 million -$500,000 less than last year. 
Jorge Perez, a spokesman for President Alfonso Portillo, said the budget cut was necessary, given the government's strained finances. He acknowledged there is "no way the police could respond quickly to vio­lence." 
All over Guatemala, it is common to see one blue-and­white police pickup carrying up to eight officers armed with machine guns. 
Of the 6,000 trucks the police use for patrolling the streets, only 2,400 are dri­vable at any given time, Sanchez said. 
Floridalma Godinez, a gro­cer, said she recently had to temporarily close-her small shop in a c,,.wded Quetzaltenango market dis­trict because police took more than an hour to collect the body of a man killed by a hit-and-run driver. 
"The bees and flies were terrible," Godinez said. "And I just had to think that if it takes a long time to come and remove a dead body, the police will have no chance of catching the person that was driving the car." 
Out of control 
The crime rate in Guatemala. a country about the size of Iowa, has grown to such a degree that the police force is having difficulty handling it with its current resources. 


California reaches deal on power lines, relieving debt 
Associated Prt=ss 
LOS ANGELES 
In a bid to pull the state's second biggest utility back from the brink of bankruptcy, Gov. Gray Davis announced a deal on Monday for the state to buy power lines from Southern California Edison for $2.76 billion. 
The deal is a key part of the gove rnor's plan to keep the cash-strapped utility solvent It would give Edison money to reorganize its debts and pay power generators, many of which have not been paid for power since last November. 
"These were tough negotia­tions but they've produced a good, balanced deal," Davis said. 
The deal requires Edison to 
provide power from its gener­
ation plants to customers at 
low rates for 10 years and to 
drop a lawsuit seeking hikes 
in consumer rates, Davis said. 
ll still requires approval from 
the California Public Utilitie/ 
Commission. 
Davis had originally pr ­posed buying parts of the state's transmission grid owned by all three of the state's investor-owned, utili­lies. That plan was dealt a serious blow Friday when Pacil'ic Gas & Electric, the state's largest utility, pulled out of negotiations and filed for bankruptcy protection. 
SoCal Edison chairman Steve 
Frank said the state would 
benefit morn from improving 
the utility's financial status 
than from owning the lines. 
Frank said the deal for the transmission lines gives the state a hard asset in return for the $2.76 billion, But he said the real value was helping Edison become a creditworthy buyer of electric power. 
The state has been spending California Public Utilities PG&E said the PUC has to comply with orders of the $45 million to $50 million a Commission from trying to col­incorrectly calculated the California Public Utilities day since January to buy lect $8 billion the state says it amount it owes. Commission," said Gary power for customers of PG&E is owed for buying power on "I think they're asking the Cohen, an attorney for the and Edison. Wholesale power behalf of the utility. judge to say they do not have PUC. suppliers have refused to sell electricity to the utilities because their credit is nearly worthless. 
Davis said the amount the state offered for the lines was more than twice their estimat­ed value. He said the deal was worth it because Edison had agreed to sell low-cost power. 
Under the agreement Monday, Edison will start buy­ing power on its own at the end of 2002. The state will continue buying power for the utility in the meantime. 
Harvey Rosenfield of the Foundation for Taxpayer and Consumer Rights said buying the power lines was a way for the state to help Edison with­out appearing to bail out the ut,ility. He said Davis "misled t:he public ... by trying to pre• 
/tend it's a massive buyout rather than bailout." 
Republican Assemblyman Dave Cox also criticized the Democratic governor's plan, saying the power lines could require billions of dollars in improvements. 
Edison and PG&E say they have lost more than $13 bil­lion since June because of sky­rocketing wholesale power prices. They cannot pass on their costs to customers under the state's 1996 deregulation law. 
Edison also was expected to file an update Monday on its financial condition with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
Meanwhile, PG&E on Monday asked U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Dennis Montali to issue a temporary restraining order to stop the 

Tuesday, April 10, 200 I The Observer . NEWS page 7 
ENGLAND 
Bush faces global warming issues 
Associated Press 
CA.MBlUDGE 
SmalJer crop yields. Earlier flu seasons. Deadlier and more fre­quent storms. 
In the wakf' of President Bush's rejection of the Kyoto Protocol on global warming, sci­entists from 25 countries on Monday forecast a perilous future for the planet if emissions of carbon dioxide and other so­called greenhouse gases contin­ue to rise. 
"If we do nothing, we \\ill have a disastrous situation facing us," said Oavid Warrilow, head of research on climate change at Britain's Department of the Environment. Transport and the Regions. 
Despite "vested interests" that want to play up scientific uncer­tainties about global warming "there is enough evidence now that it is worth acting," he told delegates at a conference at Cambridge University. 
The United States proclucAs more carbon dioxide than any other country, but Warrilow stopped short of criticizing Bush 
for turning his back on the his­
toric U.N. accord reached four 
years ago at Kyoto, Japan. 
Oth~r scientists ,vere less for­. giving. 
··1 think we have exactly the 
vvrong president at the moment 
for this issue ... He's not going to 
do anything," said Carolyn Dry of 
the University of Illinois' School ed urgency. 
Some of the dozens of scien­tists here agreed that efforts to halt global warming would become much tougher without 
U.S. involvement. 
"It's a definite setback," said conference organizer Yuan-Yuan Lee. "We're spending money already to repair the damage caused by extreme weather 
of Architecture in Champagne­events." Urbana, Ill. The Kyoto 
"I think we have
treaty calls for 
countries to exactly the wrong 
agree to legal­president at the ly bi11ding tar­
moment for this issue ... 
gets for curb­
He's nol going to do
ing heat-trap­ping gases, anything.,, mainly from burning fossil 
fuels, like oil. Carolyn Dry Bush said it scientist, University of Illinois 
would place a disproportionate burden on the 
U.S. economy. 
Although the three-day meet­ing focused on technologies that aim at reversing the apparent trend toward warmer weather, Bush"s decision_g_ave it unexpect-
INTERESTED IN SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, AND ETHICAL QUESTIONS? 
Ethical issues involving technology assessment, bioethics, human genetics, environmental management, computer technology, engineering, and architectural design constantly raise new and difficult dilemmas for society. 
To explore these issues in depth, investigate the unique Notre Dame Science, Technology, and Values Program (STV). This is an academic Minor requiring 15 credit hours that may be taken in conjunction with any major. Within the STV Program, you may develop specific emphases on STV issues in relation to Business; Environmental Studies; Biomedical Ethics; Philosophy and Theology~ History and Philosophy of Science; and Government and Public Policy. 
Adescription of course offerings for FALL 2001 may be obtained at 346 O'Shaughnessy, or you can visit our website at http://www.nd.edu/~stv. Call 631-5015 for apersonal a ointment. 
Save $100 MCAT :-:ype;Jearning 
Sign up before Apfil 13 and get a $100 discount on our MCAT Hyper/earning Course 
. 
Plus 5 fv,ll-/ength, proctored practice ex·ams 
4,00,0j,ages ofpractice materia/­
30 MCATs worth ofpractice passages 
/ Proven Results­
8 point average score increase 
Risk Free-
Try us for a week 
Classes for the Aug. MCAT start . Tlie in early June, but this offer t
(!i·. ends April 13! rT/nCe On Call to sign up today! Review 

800.2REVIEW 
run the 
Lethal droughts and hurricanes have made global warming "a killing factor," and bacteria and viruses that cause diseases such as influenza are likely to mul­tiply as tempera­tures rise, said Lee, who helps 
Global Warming 
International Center, a research institute based in Woodridge, ill. 
Warrilow said that population grovvth combined the burning of coal and oil have triggered a rapid in.crease in the greenhouse 
gases that contribute to global warming. He noted that tem­peratures have risen by an average of at least 1.1 degrees Fahrenheit over the last centu­ry. 
Ginsburg backs fight to end death penalty 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg said Monday she supports a proposed state mora­torium on the death penalty, adding that accused murderers with good lawyers ''do not get the death penalty." Ginsburg criticized the often "meager" amount of money spent to defend poor people, and said she would be "glad to see" Maryland become the second state after Illinois to pass a moratorium on imposition of the death penalty. 
Rut the effort failed a few hours later when Maryland law­makers adjourned for the year without voting on thfl measure. 
"I have yet to see a death case among the dozens coming to the Supreme Court on eve-of-execu­tion stay applications in which the defendant was well repre­sented at trial," Ginsburg said in a lecture on the importance of public service law. 
"People who arc well repre­sented at trial do not get the death penalty," she added later. 
Ginsburg has gone on record as saying she would have grant­ed last-minute stays, or delays, in capital cases. The Supreme Court has at least a five-member majority in favor of the death penalty in general. 
The justices have agreed to hear a case next fall testing whether mentally retarded peo­ple may be executed. 
Speaking at the University of the District of Columbia, Ginsburg also proposed a legal service corps on the model of VISTA public service program that sends mostly young volun­teers to help the poor. 
"How much healthier to enlist young people in this kind of community service than to sign them up for armed combat," she said. 
Ginsburg ducked a question about the Bush v. Gore case that ended ballot recounts in florida and effectively decided the 2000 election for President Rush, say­ing she made hflr point in her written dissent. She was among the four-member minority that supported the continued recounts sought by Democratic candidate Al Gore. 
Politically liberal lawyers, pro­fessors and politicians made up much of the audience at the public, open-enrollment univer­sity. Ginsburg smiled but did not applaud during partisan intro­ductory remarks by B. Michael Rauh, president of the District of Columbia School of Law Foundation. 

page 8 
There's only one way to go. Up. 
As you begin your ascent to the top, remember, it's what you learn along the way that assures your suc­cess. At Ernst & Young, we give our recruits total access to the tools they need to gain knowledge and learn more about the marketplace. And because leadership skills are so important, 
we give them the opportunity to chal­
lenge themselves by working with leading companies in leading indus­tries. The result? An atmosphere that's stimulating, innovative and creative. Talk ~bout aplace 
where you can really take off. 
FORTUNE' 
100 BEST 
COMPANIES§
TOWORKFORN 
vs· 
SKIFiA"M 
~ 
Proud sponsor of 
the U.S. Ski Team. 
Tuesday, April l 0, 200 l The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
SIERRA LEONE
WEST BANK 
Jews mark Passover amidst violence 
U.N. enters rebel town 
Associated Press 
HEBRON 
Amid daily violence, hun­dreds of Jewish pilgrims from Israel streamed through Hebron to mark Passover at the disputed Tomb of the Patriarchs and show support for the small and beleaguered community of Jewish settlers in the divided West Bank city. 
Helmeted Israeli soldiers car­rying submachine gu·ns patrolled the streets, perched on rooftops and manned check­points as Jews arrived in buses from around the country Mond,ay and toured the city's Jewish enclaves and its muse­um. The weeklong Passover holiday began Saturday. 
Hebron is the only West Bank city divided into Israeli and Palestinian zones. Israeli sol­diers protect about 450 Israeli settlers who live in three enclaves in the center of the city, exchanging fire with Palestinian gunmen every day. 
The Tomb of the Patriarchs 
makes the city holy to 
Christians, Muslims and Jews 
alike. Strict security considera­
tions dictate a tight prayer 
schedule for followers of the 
competing faiths. Jewish pil­
grims filed through metal 
detectors to enter the disputed 
holy site, where the biblical 
Abraham, Isaac and Jacob are 
believed to be buried. 
A stone wall divides the 
fortress-like building over the 
site into a mosque for Muslims 
and a synagogue for Jews, mir­
roring the city's division, which grows deeper each day. and swayed in front of tan-and­
. U.N. troops
Hebron has long been a red marble monument~ to 
patrol rebel-held
scene of bloodshed. Dozens of Isaac 1.1.nd his wife Rebecca. Jews wore killed hero in Arab Some raised their arms and 
diamond fields 
riots in 1929. Some of the set­sang. tlers live in buildings owned by Others lit candles and took Jews until the massacre. photographs of each other. 
Associated Press And it was inside the Tomb of Soldiers and police mingled the Patriarchs in 1994 that among the worshippers. 
FREETOWN Baruch Goldstein, a Jewish Amotz Gurkevich, 28. came 
U.N. troops entered a rebel­doctor who immigrated from from the West Bank Jewish set­
held diamond-mining town for New York City, shot and killed tlement of Kadoumim to pray 
the first time in Sierra I.:eone's 29 Muslims at prayer. in a corner of the building. 
war, patrolling the rebel Two weeks ago a Palestinian When he came here a year and 
stronghold without resistance, 
gunman firing from a hilltop 
"It's up to us, to the
killed a 10­m on th-old Jews and the state of 
Jewish girl, Israel to be connected 
and the Israeli 
to this place. " 
army shelled a Palestinian neighborhood Amotz Gurkevlch 
in response. 
Jewish pilgrim
Then Jewish settlers blew up a 
Force commander Lt. Gen.
Palestinian shop and clashed move. People are really afraid 
Daniel Opande, a Kenyan, told
with Palestinians in the streets, to come," he said. "It's up to us, 
The Associated Press that 100
cursing soldiers who tried to to the Jews and the state of 
Zambian peacekeepers made
stop them."We don't want any­Israel to· be connected to this 
"a strong and· 1ong-range
one to think for one minute that place." 
patrol" to the eastern diamond
we are going to give up on Judith Zimmerman, 22, came 
town.
Hebron," said Brian Levin. 46. from Jerusalem to pray in front 
The U.N. troops were "well­
from the nearby West Bank of a one of the building's sun­
received" by fighters of the
Jewish settlement of Efrat. splashed walls in an open 
Revolutionary United Front and
Palestinians in the center of courtyard. 
local people, Opande said. 
Hebron have been under cur­With her eyes closed, she 
It was the most assertive
few since the baby was killed. stood silently beneath a wire 
move yet of weeks back on the
The Tomb of the Patriarchs is mesh canopy intended to shield 
move for U.N. peacekeepers in
open exclusively for Jewish worshippers from stones 
Sierra Leone, deploying cau­
prayer on Passover, as it is set thrown over the walls by 
tiously in the one-third to one­
aside for Muslim prayer on Palestinians." It's like coming 
half of the country under con­
Islamic holidays. to your roots," she said. 
trol of the brutal rebel force. 
Inside the dim. stone build­The constant violence gave 
Peacekeepers now are
ing, Jews clutching prayer her second thoughts about 
deploying town by town, mov­
books rapidly recited prayers coming to visit Hebron. 
the U.N. force commander
a half ago on 
announced Monday. 
Yorn Kippur, 
The deployment asserted
the Jewish day 
U.N. peacekeepers' right of
of atonement, 
access to one of rebel's key
he said he had 
prizes in the 10-year-old con­
to fight for a 
flict: the Tongofield diamond
space inside 
field, one of the West African
the building. 
nation's richest. 
"During nor­
U.N. peacekeepers carried
mal times 
out the patrol in the town of
there are so 
Tongofield Saturday but
many people 
revealed it only Monday. 
here you can't ing slowly and in force. Saturday's patrol met with rebel leaders and local people, returning the same day. Opande said. 
"We went there to see for ourselves where we are going to deploy and how many men we would need," the U.N. com­mander said. 
"You will realize that Rome was not built in a day," he said. "This is in preparation for our deployment in those areas. 
The same day, U.N. troops from Ghana and Nigeria trav­eled for the first time to the rebels' headquarters in the east, Kailahun; the northern town of Kambia; "and beyond," Opande said. He didn't elabo­rate. 
Another key diamond-mining town in the eastern region, Kono, has yet to be visited. 
Sierra Leone's rebels have killed and maimed tens of thou­sands in a campaign of terror largely bent on winning and holding diamond mines, Rebels' trademark in the war has been mutilation -hacking off the hands, feet or lips of countless civilians. 
The U.N. Security Council voted this month to boost the peacekeeping force in Sierra Leone from 12,000 to 17,500. The deployment already is the world's largest. 
A newly appointed political chief for the rebels subsequent­ly announced that rebel com­manders wanted to renew peace efforts. Rebels have fre­quently made such overtures before, only to resume attacks. 

I• 
TODAY IS THE DAY!!!! 
FIND PLASTIC EASTER EGGS i\LL AROUND CANIPUS AND BRING TIIEM TO 
THE EASTER COOKIE DECORATING EVENT IN LAFORTIJNE TO CLAIN! YOUR PRIZE!!!! 

• 
Sponseredby S.UB. 
VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Tuesday, April I 0, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 014 South Dining I-Jail, Noue Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
A.>S1. MANAGlNC Eonoa  
Kerry Smith  

N1:.-ws EDITOR: Jason McFarlcy VIEWPOINT EDITOR: l'a1 McElwec SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadce, 
ScE.NE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARv'S EDITOR: Myra McGriff 
rHoTo EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvcl Chin 
Wl,.B Al>MINISTR.ATOll: Adam Turner 
CONTROUER: Kevin Ryan 
GRA!'HICS EDITOR: Katie McKcnua 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENEIW. INf0..............631-7471 f,\)( ............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING....................................63 J-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHJEl'.............................. , .....••. 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR!AssT. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICF... ......................................631-5313 NEWs.......................................................... 631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT ................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu 
Sl'ORTS ........................................................ 631-4543 
observer.sports. l@nd.edu SCENE.................... -...................................631-4 540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv'S.............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOT0........................................................63I-8767 
SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER 0NLJNE 
Visit our Web site ar http://oburtJ,r.nd~du for daily updates of campus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from rhe Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly srudent reviews 
advertise for policies 
online fuatures for spe­
and rates of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
ro meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Sainr Mary's Cci!Iege. Edicorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present rhe views ofthe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoinc space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to 1he Editor must be signed and must include contact information, 
Que,tiom r~arding Oburver po/icier 1hould he dirut­,d10 Edi1or i11 Ch~[ Milu Connolly. 
Struggles of Kenyan streetchildren must be noticed 
AIDS is not the only story in Africa. There are many more topics that deserve just as much media attention, public awareness and international support. A couple months ago, 1wrote a piece about political corruption in Kenya and the Britanny murder or Father 
Morehouse 
John Kaiser, an 
American mission­
ary priest. Indeed, 
It's All About 
Father John taught 
Anthropology
me a great deal, and each day he continues to guide and guard me. However, his voice is only one amongst many voices in Kenya that have left me with a reason to teach oth­ers about what why we need to help fel­low nations in need. The other voices that ring in my ears are those of the little Kenyan streetchildren. 
There are an estimated 100 million streetchildren in the world today. While in 1969 there were roughly a few hun­dred urban child wanderers in Kenya, currently there could be as many as 30,000 streetchildren in the capital city of Nairobi alone. There are both micro-and macro-reasons for this enormous boom of what Americans would identify as homeless children, in Kenya and other African nations. 
Certainly, AIDS is one of the largest macro-issues because it is the root of the breakdown in the family which experts say is the largest push factor encouraging children to run to the streets. The extend­ed family, traditionally Africa's only social safety net, has also been pulled apart by overpopulation, urbanization and nega­tive Western social influences. All of these factors combined to form the most diffi­cult to trace and intricately woven web of modernity and tradition, two words that are not antonyms but are treated as such in Western culture. 
Journalists write about the soaring numbers of people infected with the HIV virus in Africa but spend so much time reflecting on statistical proof that they are unable to link it to other tragedies, such as streetchildren. When parents and caretakers die because of AIDS, the chil­dren are often stranded since the concept of urbanization and modernization has made it difficult to contact extended fami­ly members. 
Urbanization has also been the cause of kids' attraction to large cities. The con­densation of businessmen, Western trav­elers and big businesses all in one area lure Kenyan children to Nairobi and other cities. The Western values of greater personal independence and sin­gle lifestyles rather than village responsi­bilities have an effect on teens who are at the most impressionable age. 
Whatever the cause may be, the conse­quences of the issue are heartbreaking for those who represent our future. Loving, intelligent and creatively gifted kids are left without the promise of a bright future because they arc pulled away from education. Kids flee to the streets when they cannot afford school fees. Kids also flock the streets when their families need the additional financial support of the small pit­tance the kids can work for or cannot afford to feed the chil­dren enough food. Thus. even if they did not have to pay school fees, they are too needed at home and too hungry to concen­trate. 
Other effects include juvenile injustice in the form of abuse by police ollicers and prolonged detention in juvenile jails hav­ing the most nnsan­ilary, cramped con­ditions. Kenyan policemen fre­quently sweep the streets, collecting and arresting kids who are begging or sleeping in the city. If they are not arresting them, they are bribing or beat­ing them. They are able to get away with it because, in Kenya, "street loitering" is a federal offense, no matter how old you are. 
S treetchildren are a problem that differs according to gen­der. Whereas boys might find them­selves in a position of begging or work­ing as parking boys for survival, girls in the same predicament engage in survival prostitution. Girls are therefore harassed by the police in more fright­ening ways than boys. 
Sadly enough, it is the harrassment and negative adult reactions. not their hunger, that troubles streetchildren the most. Isolation 
and distrust cause them the great­est pain. Once, while I was in Kenya, a police officer stopped a streetboy who was walking with me and helping me carry boxes. He immediately assumed the boy was about to steal from me and chased him while swinging a baton. He forbid the boy to go near any white lady, threatening him with arrest, even after.I protested and defended him. The kids invariably are accused of lying. 
I.ronically. as ostracized and rejected as 
urban child wanderers arc, they collec­
tively form the most solid sense of com­munity of all.groups in Kenya. They stand by each other Lhrough thick and thin in "three-musketeer" fashion. In contrast to much or the surrounding culture, they do not distribute themselves according to dilfornnces·or tribal identity. Perhaps that is why it is so difli­cult to discern the vari­ous ages or their many beautiful faces. Perhaps that is why they arc so warm and welcoming to all who are willing to spend time with them. This is another true story: When malaria-infected Vincent of the streets became sick, he was near death. Each day he became worse, lying on one of' the few paved sidewalks of the town of Kisumu, Kenya, growing colder, hungrier and more emaci­ated. After col­lecting enough money through work and peti­tion, his family of fellow streetchil­dren carried him on their backs to the nearest hospi­tal miles away so that he could visit a doctor. When they returned to their usual hang-out with Vincent and medication in hand, they took turns caring and nursing him in shifts until ho became better. No, they are not manipulative, stupid, dirty or mean. They are witty, smart, strong and compassionate. And as much as they have learned to care for themselves, they are only children. And they are our 
future no matter where they live. 
Brittany Morehouse is a senior American studies and African studies double major with a minor in anthro­pology. Ifyou have any questions regard­ing this topic or would like to see a video demonstration, feel free to e-mail her at Morehouse. I@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
DILBERT 
E 
I'M SAD TO RE.PORT ~ 
THAT OUR. OIL DRILLING } 
HAS CAUS£D THE. l 
EXTINCTION OF THE i
ii
EL BON IAN ~ UNICORN. 
SCOTT ADAMS  
SAVE A SAMPLE OF THE ANIMAL'S DNA $0 WE CAN CLONE. A NEW ONE.  DON'T FINISH THAT.  

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Let me tell you about the very rich. They are different from you and me. They possess and enjoy early, and it does something to them, makes them soft where we are hard, and cynical where we are trustful. " 
F. Scott Fitzgerald author 

IEWPOINT 
OTHE Tuesday, April I0, 200 l BSERVER page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Law school caught in a downward spiral 
The new U.S. News & World Report law mine who will gain admL'lsion to their schools. school ratings came out last week and. once Many people agree that tests such as the SAT again, Notre Dame Luw took a tumble down and LSAT do not accurately measure the the rankings. Regardless of whether you quality of potential students. Nevertheless. agree with the ranking system, the truth is that standardized tests and ranking method­that employers and prospective students care ologies are not perfect is another poor excuse about where the school stands. In the past few for not achieving excellence. If admissions and years, the Law School has had deans and faculty expect us to achieve excellence on sub­prominent professors leaving town faster than jective admissions tests and mid-term exams, a Michigan fan after a blowout loss at Notre is it too much to ask the school to reciprocate Dame Stadium (except they don't have any in its performance in the U.S. News rankings? intention of coming back in two years). Some ofthe blame must fall on the adminis­
For several reasons, including a staggering tration and alumni, as our facilities are, at 78 percent employment rate at graduation. best, decent. Perhaps the Law School could our ranking has fallen from a top 25 law use a multi-million dollar donation or at least school to a five-way tie for 27. Some current renovation. Just look at what the recent dona­students have been told by prospective tion has done for the MBA school in terms of employers that they usually only hire increased student applications and those attending "top-tier" law improvement in the national rank­schools. The implication of such ings. To maintain competitiveness, remarks -that these employers a school must continuously strive 

Wearing what's inside 
There seems to have been a lot of talk lately on clothes and what they say about people. If you think about it. judging a person by the clothes he or she wears is a lot like the old phrase, "judging a book by its cover." It is what is inside that counts. 
But really, I am sure you aU know that anyway and none of you would ever dream of assuming that because a woman is wear­ing tight or revealing clothing it means she wants to hit it all night long in your dorm room. 
But I rugress. That kind of talk about clothing is not what I want to get into, because things get messy, peo­ple start assuming things, and we all know that when you assume something. you make an ass out of you and me -but especially you. 
Anyway, clothing is something that I have been think­ing about lately, because in looking for a job (which I still do not have) one of the things that I have been warned about is the phrase, "business formal attire." Frankly. this scares me. I don't do suits, I don't do heels, I don't do clothes that inhibit my breathing reg­ularly. On a day-to-day basis, I am in jeans and a T­shirt, or on really great days still in my pajamas. going about my day perfectly happy with myself. 
And you are trying to tell me that in just a matter of weeks I have to give all that up? I don't think so. There are many reasons I am an English major, and the fact that I can show up to class in track pants and a baseball cap and still make a valid point about the idea of the American dream in "The Great Gatsby," as well as have my professors take me seriously is high on the list. Really, it goes for any major. 
So, does the fact that I do not regularly participate in the fashion show that plagues both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame mean that in essence I am a slacker. and a company should not hire me? Not in the least. Granted, playing dress up is fun every once in a while and it is usually accompanied with a, "Wow, Molly, why are you so dressed up today?" It has never been accompanied with a, "Wow, Molly, that suit and heels made your comments and theories in class today so much smarter!" 
I like these companies that I hear about that do not require you to look like you are attending a funeral every day of the week. A friend of mine works out in Phoenix, and his company has the right idea. He can do his computer work in shorts and a T-shirt if he so chooses. They know he is a smart guy, that is why they hired him. They did not hire him because they liked his tie. 
I really do not see the point ofmaking myself uncomfortable in clothing. That utterly defeats the ultimate purpose. I think I will propose that all com­panies make the rule that clothing, while not optional, should at least be option-full. 
If you want to come to work all dressed up and ready to rock the work week, great. And if you want to come in your favorite jeans and shirt that you have had since freshman year of high school, that is fine too. As long as you get your work done, what does it matter? 
ln a perfect world, this would work like a charm. Alas, as we all know this is not a perfect world by far. and people still seem to think that business for­mal means that the job gets done better and in a more "professional" atmosphere. Translation, in a more "boring" atmosphere. 
And in general, this forces us all to spend more than a rational amount of money on clothing, because now, besides that $300 suit (and that's a cheap­er one, too), you have to buy clothes for other times, like the weekends. You know -bars, clubs and other occasions that require the unspoken dress code that we all be perfectly put together, yada, yada. yada. If you think about it, it's pretty ridiculous. 
Hopefully, when I find a job, and I wear my suit I bought for the sole rea­son of getting an interview, they will not even care what I am wearing and hire me because I have the smarts tu be a great asset to their company. Hopefully, when I find a job, it will be because of all the work I have put into the last four years, and not because of how neatly pressed I am. And hope­fully, when I do find a job, it will be with one of the companies out there that embraces individuality and has an office that is not thriving on navy, gray, black and pinstripes. Because honestly, I don't look good in pinstripes. 
Molly Strzelecki is a senior English major. She can be e-mailed at strz73592@saintmarys.edu. Her column appears every other Tuesday. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those o/The Observer. 

no longer consider Notre Dame to be in that category -should serve as a wake-up call to the school in general. 
The excuse used most fre­
quently as to our drop is that, at Notre Dame Law School, we are "educating a differ­ent kind of lawyer." No one disputes the worthiness of this goal. Nevertheless, the 
fact that we are a private religious institution does not excuse poor performance in the game all the other law schools play. One could argue otherwise, but don't expect employers to buy it. 
to offer amenities similar to or better than its rivals. We don't do this currently; our facilities 
are outdated and classrooms are uncomfortable and over­crowded. 
The good news is that we certainly possess many high­caliber professors, talented students, wonderful alumni and a great general reputa­
tion. Furthermore, the administration and faculty know what will be tested on 
the "rankings exam." We shouldn't hide behind our iden­tity as a reason for a sub-par ranking or ignore the set criteria 
The other common excuse is that we have the resources to meet. If the majority of law school deans agree we do, we might need to change our that the ranking system does not take motto to "Notre Dame Law School: into account many variables. including diver­Educating a different type of unemployed sity, library resources, et cetera. This is true lawyer." -very few formulas take into account all variables and, admittedly, the process is sub­Benjamin Jilek jective. law srudent 
At the same time these very same deans class of '02 employ standardized tests that largely deter-April 9, 2001 
Justifying slavery reparations 
For the past two years or  tion was that they had to  Confederates. In 1876, this  
so, I've been following the  "homestead" the land for  second homestead act was  
often heated and controver­ five years and it would be  repealed. America preferred  
sial issue of reparations for  theirs. Imagine that: 160  to keep the freed slaves. my  
slavery, and across the  acres of land, free. And the  ancestors, as sharecroppers  
nation, most white folks are  settlers didn't even have to  for another 100 years. The  
vehemently against repara­ be U.S. citizens to qualify,  rest is history.  
tions of any sort. Hell, you  only working on becoming  The United States govern­ 
mention a mere apology for  one. This act, the Homestead  ment could give away 160  
slavery and their shorts get  Act of 1862, was, to my  acres of land, free, even to  
all knotted. I truly believe  knowledge, never repealed.  noncitizens but could not  
that there would be another  In 1866, another home­ give 80 acres. as enacted. to  
civil war if the U.S. govern­ stead act, possibly known as  a people who provided them  
ment ever considered this  the Southern Homestead  200-plus years of hard, free  
measure. Let me share with  Act, was also enacted by  labor. Instead, they gave my  
you why I'm still waiting on  Congress. It stipulated that  people 100-plus more years  
my 80 acres and a mule.  public lands in the states of  of hate, Black Codes. Jim  
On Jan. 1. 1863, President  Alabama, Mississippi,  Crow laws, the KKK, lynch­ 
Abraham Lincoln signed the  Louisiana, Arkansas and  ings, segregation, oppres­ 
Emancipation Proclamation,  Florida be disposed of  sion, miscegenation, poverty  
freeing the slaves. On that  according to the stipulations  and more hate. I ask you,  
very same day, the  of the Homestead Act of  would black America, no,  
Homestead Act of 1862 was  1862. There was no distinc­ would America as a whole  
enacted. Under this act. the  tion for race or color.  be a better nation if we'd  
United States Congress liter­ Settlers were to receive no  gotten our acres, as  
ally gave away 160 acres of  more than 80 acres. This act  promised? Hell, right now,  
land per person or family,  was part of the  I'd take an acre and a chick­ 
free. For more than 100  Reconstruction Period.  en.  
years, more than 2 million  Some ex-slaves did indeed  
white Americans received  receive a few southern  Pamela A. Hairston  
more than 270 million acres  acres, which were eventually  Washington, DC  
of land and the only stipula­ returned to the pardoned  April 5, 2001  

_J 


Tuesday, April 10, 2001 
ALBUM REVIEW 
India.Arie emerges as powerful new R&B force 

CONCERT REVIEW 
The Samples perform perfect mix of old and new 
other groups would get lost  a song like  
By LISA BRUNO along the way, losing sight of  "Lonely Soul," a  
Scene Music Critic their goal, but the Samples  tribute to Elvis  
hasn't, and that showed on  and Judy Garland,  
Scan Kelly, lead singer of the Thursday night. The title of the  the Samples  
Samples, said the Samples group's new album, Return to  revealed its firm  
always bring the rain, and the Earth, couldn't be more appro­ grasp of the ele­ 
band did just that Thursday priate, as the members have  ments of a soon­ 
night. come full circle and returned to  to-be classic. One  
As the rain and thunder what they want as a band.  of these elements  
pounded above Stepan Center, a In concert. the Samples  is the voice of  
new hope was felt in the revealed a crisp energy and  Kelly, which  
Samples. It was as if the band cohesiveness that has to be par­ always seems at  
let out a col-ti ally attrib­ some level to have  
lective sigh of uted to its  a certain sadness.  
relief and was independent finally going Set List status. The  Laced in with these rookie songs  
at things its April 5, 2001 show opened  were the stan­ 
way. Having Stepan Center with the sta­ dards, including,  
cut ties with ple tune, "Did  "Feel Us Shaking"  
its former Set: You Ever  and "Little Silver  
record label. Did You Ever Look So Nice Look So  Ring." And just to  
W.A.H. (What Wild River Nice," and  please the crowd a  
Are llecords), We All Move On followed up  little more, the  
the Samples Giants with a trick­ band added cuts  
finally has Indiana ling of new  of other favorites  
control of its Lorn~ly Soul songs from  in-between the  
own music. Nothing Lasts For Long Return to  classics. The  
The journey to Our Time Earth.  AMANDA HUGHES/The Observer result was a beau­ 
this place World Of Machines While there  Donning a Notre Dame shirt, Sean Kelly and his band, The Samples, thrilled theirtiful balance of old  
hasn't beon an Weight Of The World might have  and new. The Stepan Center crowd last Thursday as they Jammed through old fan favorites  
nasy one Feel Us Shaking been some  Samples has been and new material alike.  
though. The Castle Walls early reserva­ around for awhile  
group has Little Silver Ring tions about  and can boast a long list of fan  In addition to new music and  and perhaps even an appear­ 
been fraught Won't Be Back Again the new songs  favorites -like "Taxi," "Who  new energy, the Samples has a  ance on MTV's "THL." But it  
wilh a numbor resonating  Am I" and "Anyone But You."  new website, thesamples.com.  doesn't -and it won't. Its  
of roadblocks among fans,  Yet if the band were to play  The group has the computer  members arc musical purists, 
but has always persevered. To Kelly quickly put any doubts to  these most requested classics,  strapped tightly down in its tour  and fans are lucky to have  
say that the Samples is a sur­rest as he pointed out that there  the concert could go on into the  bus and is very eager to keep  them. They have maintained a  
vivor of the music industry may once was a day when even  wee hours of the morning. Still,  fans informed.  steady focus on what they want,  
sound cliche, but it truly is. "Taxi" was new material. The  the highlight of Thursday's  The Samples has been playing  and it is a pure, untarnished  
Like any band, the Samples songs definitely held their own,  show was arguably when the  since 1989, and in today's music  desire to make music. In Kelly's 
struggled to get signed, got and any reservations were  band broke one of these  business, it would seem this  words, "Didn't make much  
signed and then struggled to abandoned amidst sea of fans  favorites out of the archives - band should have a broader fan  sense, but we loved to do our  
regain independence. Many bouncing to "Castle Walls." With  the rarely played "Indiana."  base, maybe a couple of videos  thing."  

By ARIENNE THOMPSON 
Scene Music Critic 
Commonly thought to be reserved for white rock artists. like Sheryl Crow, or old b!uos singors, like 8.B. King, the guitar has b11en an instrument largely ignored by blar,k artists in the genre of modern rhvthm and blues and neo-soul. With the exceptions of Brian McKnight, Tony Rich, Haphaf'I Saadiq and a handful of others. tho guitar has not traditionally been P.mhraced as a focal instrument in R & B recording. However, with her debut album Acoustic Soul, India.Arie manages to display the potential of the guitar as an essAntial element of neo-soul. 
In the late '90s India.Arie and her band Groovement formed an independent label and released an album with some of her early songs. Soon after. she had a spot on Sarah McLachlan's quietly successful Lilith Fair tour in 1998 and was courted by several major labels. Later signing with Motown, India.Arie released Acoustic Soul in late March with very little recognition. 
Nonetheless, the quirky, simple video for her first sin­gle. "Video," has garnered national atten­tion and made her "buzzwor­thy" on BET and MTV alike. On the track, she sings of being the antithesis of the supermodels and booty-shak­ers seen with alarming con­stancy on the same television stations that have generated her earlv suc­cess. Such hon­esty and self­awareness are what make Acoustic Soul such a gem 
Acoustic Soul 
among the common. The album 
India.Arie
thrives on India .Arie's husky voice 
Motown Records 
and self-con­ 
sc~ous lyrics,  
while suc­cess f' u 11 y  Rating 
incorporating her full range of skills on  ....:....  
the  guitar.  
 
She sings of  

love, loss, beauty and God with an intensi­ty usually withheld for the more seasoned artist. She fits the bill of the average neo­soul artist, hut has a freshness that does not peg her into the realm oftrit1mess. 
With songs like "Strength, Courage, & Wisdom" and "Ready For Love," India.Arie showcases her strong voice and song writing skills. The latter is infused with the waning and waxing of a single cello while she makes her most soulful attempt on the record. 
Other songs like "Back to the Middle" and "Part of My Life" don't add much to the total composition, but do provide an opportunity for the guitar's presence to be fully recognized and appreciated. 
Fortunately, the pleasantly funky "Brown Skin," in which India.Arie claims "Brown skin you know I love your brown skin/ I can't tell where yours begins I can't tell where mine ends," compensates for any of the album's minor blunders. Her voice low and smooth, India.Arie profess­es a love for pigmentation and creates the vivid. lush images that great songs arc made of. The song is reminiscent of the vibe present on D'Angelo's debut release Brown Sugar and proves that India.Arie deserves a position among those artists of neo-classic soul. 
Though she lacks the hard funk of Me'Shell NdegeOccllo and the quiet soul of Tracy Chapman, India.Arie is well on her way to becoming a champion of her genre. Acoustic Soul is a squirt of flavor in the occasionally repetitive field of mushy love songs and shallow thought. India.Arie, it seems, is restricted by noth­ing: she is lyrically and musically sound, proving her artistic prowess and potential longevity. 
Tuesday, April 10, 2001 

----------------------, 
ALBUM REVIEW 
OTR reach creative height with Films for Radio 
By GREG RUEHLMANN Scene Music Critic 
The road to musical success is rarely easy. The typical band must spend years fostering a fan base, finding the right label, and developing its sound before it can achieve a breakthrough hit -if it ever does. A band that has certainly paid its dues over the last decade is the Cincinnati~based group Over the Rhine. Led by the hus­band-wife song writing duo of Linford Detweiler (piano. keyboard) and Karin Bergquist (vocals, guitar), the group has endured record label problems and the departure of two band members. But judging from their new release, Films for Radio, all of OTB's struggles are finally about to pay off. 
Over the Rhine -named after Cincinnati's poorest inner-city neighborhood -got its start in 1989 playing at clubs like Sudsy Malone's, the Queen City's infamous laundroma1/ alternative music venue. The band's unique blend of folk, rock, pop and blues propelled it to the forefront of a vibrant Cincinnati music scene with the likes of The Afghan Whigs, The Ass Ponys and Blessid Union of Souls. Eleven years and seven albums later, OTR's hometown popularity and small but devoted national following continue to grow. 
Through the years, the group has dealt with its fair share of difficulties. In 1996. it lost its record deal when the label I.R.S. disappeared in the midst of massive industry restructuring. Later that year, two of'the band's four founding members left to pursue other opportuni­ties. But Bergquist and Detweiler pressed on. They hired new musicians and continued to record music. 
Through their own independent label, they distributed OTH's music, including the original band's final album, the independent classic Good Dog Bad Dog. The couple performed on "CBS This Morning" in late 1998 and gri­maced as the host described Over the Rhine as "one of America's great unsigned bands." Fortunately, that "unsigned" was dropped 

Films for Radio 
when Over the Rhine joined Virgin/Backporch records. Though OTR has aspired to mainstream 
Over The Rhine 
success in the American music scene, it still remained a well-kept indie rock secret. That is, until now, as the band releases 
Virgin Records 
what is easily its most skillful effort to date. Films For Radio miliibits the polish of veter­an studio musicians and further solidifies 
Rating
Bergquist's and Detweiler's status as mas­ter songwriters. Most importantly, Films For Radio is a record bursting with beauty, 
..... ; ...-l,
and should translate better to popular 
radio than any of Over the Rhine's previous works. The album resounds as a triumph for Over the Rhine and a landmark in the group's musi­cal development. 
Films for Radio gets off to a great start with the track "The World Can Wait." Don Heffington's pounding per­cussion and Detweiler's keyboards give the song a mysti• cal quality that sets the perfect tone for the rest the record. "The World Can Wait" leads into other memo­rable songs such as "Give Me Strength," "Little Blue River," and "Goodbye." 
"Give Me Strength" represents quite a departure for OTR, and has already earned significant airplay on alternative stations across the country. Co-written by Dido, it is a slightly dark, introspective piece, textured with rich electronic rhythms rather than piano and gui­tar. The refrain is an anthem of determination: "Give me strength to find the road that's lost in me/ Give me time to heal and build myself a dream/ Give me eyes to see the world surrounding me/ Give me strength to be only me." 
"Little Blue River" is a classic Over the Rhine number -bluesy and totally intoxicating, Detweiler plays some spectacular piano on this track. The line "Roll me over that little blue river now, church child" will be stuck in music fans' minds for a long time to come. "Little Blue River" is followed by "Goodbye," which sounds like the wistful pop of Over the Rhine's early days. lt examines the daily uncertainty of life, ultimately finding a shimmer of hope as Bergquist exclaims, "This is not goodbye." 
OTR closes Films for Radio with the showstopper "When I Go." The band's lyrics have never sounded so passionate, or so melancholy. Bergquist has one of the world's most beautiful voices, and she uses it to carry this song entirely by herself. She cries out for validation, "I want to know/ Will it make a difference/ When I go?" as Detweiler and guitarist Jack Henderson softly com­plement her singing. "When I Go" ends the album as strongly as "The World Can Wait" began it. 
With Films for Radio, Over the Rhine has achieved new heights of' creativity. Hopefully, the album will also take the band to new heights of popular success. In a world where mainstream music has gone so stale, the artistry of a band like OTR should be warmly welcomed. 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Double album showcases DiFranco's diversity 
By MAUREEN SMITHE Scene Music Critic 
Often described as a jazz, funk, soul, rock and folk artist, Ani DiFranco contin­ues to defy generalizations. Her newest album, Revelling/Reckoning, leaves listen­ers with this same conundrum -who is Ani Difranco? 
Experimenting with a wide range of gui­tars, from electric to acoustic, Difranco successfully reveals her dynamic and unique musical strengths in this special double album. Clearly different and divid­ed, the two discs play off of each other in an attempt to define the many experiences that have made Difranco the musician she is today. 
The first disc in the set, Revelling, opens with the bluesy shuffle "Ain't That The Way." Like every other track on this disc, this song demonstrates DiFranco's intellec­tual and poetic lyric ability: "I gotta beeline double time/ Leave my home sweet home for your honeycomb." The groove heard in "Ain't That The Way" continues through­out the disc. 
Revelling literally reveals the wide span of musical context in which Difranco develops her music. Ranging from solo acoustic numbers to songs with a strong band back up, this CD is the more jazzy of the two. 
In addition to her newly embraced vin­tage jazz-singer pitches, "What How When Where (Why Who)" features some well placed horns, including a trumpet and a saxophone played by well-known musician Maceo Parker. Vocal support from addi­tional artists blends nicely with this track's overall jazzy feel. 
The completely acoustic track, "Harvest," surprises the listener because for once, DiFranco has nothing verbal to say. Her lyrics are so concise and clear and honest throughout the disc's other tracks. However, most Ani Difranco fans can't argue that her intricate guitar work continues to impress when left without her voice. 
The album's second disc, Reckoning, is a departure from the jazzy setup she pre­pares for the listener with Revelling. Most 
of the songs 

on Reckoning 
Revelling/Reckoning are acoustic and solo, set­ting a quiet 
and reflective
Ani DiFranco 
mood. She makes a real Righteous Babe attempt on Records this disc to reckon with herself and
Rating 
the society 
that con­
tributed to
...... 
her own 

musical and per­sonal develop­ment. Lyrics such as "The first per­son in your life/ To ever really matter/ Is saying the last thing/ That you want to hear," from "Sick of' Me," demon­strate her grow­ing confronta­tional nature with life. 
As always, DiFranco also takes the oppor­tunity to use her fame to make some political commentary. In "Your Next Bold Move" she takes a shot at the problems she sees in America. "Coming of age during the 
Plague/ Of Photo courtesy of Righteous Babe Records Reagan and Never one to disappoint, indie rock legend Ani DiFranco's newest Bush/ Watching release, Revelling/Reckoning, resonates with the heated pas­capitalism gun sion and quiet self-reflection fans have come to expect from her. 
down democra­cy/ It had this funny effect on me/ I guess." Honestly and boldly, she takes the risks necessary to make changes. 
This theme is also felt in the social revo­lution anthem "Subdivision." She makes no apologies for her frustrations. "White people are so scared of black people/ They bulldoze out the country ... And while America gets its heart cut right out of its chest/ The Berlin Wall still runs down Main Street." She wants "her country" to rise out of social oppression and conformi­ty. Accompanied by a clarinet, shakers. drums and bass, this song is a fusion of both instruments and ideals. 
This double album is classic Difranco. Faithful to her fans and her art, she never strays too far from what she does best. 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, April 10, 2001 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
NBA 
Hall of Farner dies from stroke 
A5'ociated Press 
PITTSBURGH 
The Family has lost its patri­
arch. 
Hall of Pamer Willie Stargell. who led the Pirates to two World Series victories with his tape-measure homers, died of a stroke Monday at age 61. 
Ile had been in failing health for several years with a kidney disorder, according to officials at New Hanover Regional Medical Center in Wilmington, N.C. 
The Pirates unveiled a 12­foot bronze statue of the man known as "Pops" on Saturday at PNC Park, where they played their first game Monday only hours after Stargell died. 
"Now, every opening day at PNC Park, everybody will know this is Willie Stargell's day," said Chuck Tanner, Stargell's manager from 1977-82. "He's up there. and he knows the Pirates are opening today." 
One of the greatest home run hitters ever, in volume and in distance, Stargell hit 475 homers -many of them soar­ing, majestic shots that rattled a pitcher's confidence. With Stargell batting cleanup for most of his 20-year career, the Pirates won World Series championships and NL pen­nants in 1971 and 1979 and six NL East titles from 1970­
79. He was inducted into the Hall of Fame in 1988. 
Stargell was a dynamic leader on the field and a fatherly yet forceful presence off it. The 1979 Pirates were nicknamed "the Family" from the Sister Sledge song, "We Are Family," and Stargell said years later that it wasn't a misnomer. 
"We won, we lived and we enjoyed as one," Stargell said. "We molded together dozens of different individuals into one working force. We were prod­ucts of different races, were raised in different income brackets, but in the clubhouse and on the field we were one." 
He distributed his coveted 
stars for extra effort to team­
mates who proudly attached 
them to their ballcaps. 
"We fought for those stars," former teammate Bill Robinson said Monday. "Those were pre­cious. If he forgot to give you one, we'd be at his locker say­ing, 'Willie, I did this' or 'Willie, 1 did that.' To get those stars from your leader and captain, that was special." 
Tanner agreed that Stargell's personal magnetism was a key ingredient in the clubhouse. 
"When you had Willie Stargell on your team, it was like having a diamond ring on your finger," Tanner said. 
Big and powerful at 6-foot-4, 225 pounds. with a deep. com­manding voice. Stargell intimi­dated pitchers even before they delivered the ball by pin­wheeling the bat in rhythm with their delivery. 
Despite being overshadowed at times by more prolific home run hitters Hank Aaron and Willie Mays, and by the play of his own Hall of Fame team­mate, Roberto Clemente, Stargell's sheer power was unrivaled. He hit seven of the 18 homers over the right-field roof at Pittsburgh's Forbes Field from 1909-70 and once held the record for the longest homer in nearly half of the National League parks. 
"He didn't just hit pitchers, he took away their dignity," former Dodgers pitcher Don Sutton said. 
For nearly 30 years, Stargell was the only player to hit a ball out of Dodger Stadium, and he did it twice. If he hadn't played his first 8 1/2 seasons at cavernous Forbes Field, then the majors' most spacious ballpark, he probably would have hit more than 600 homers. 
Stargell's first wife, Dolores, kept detailed statistics on every ball he hit and estimated 
he would have had 22 more 
homers in 1%9 if the Pirates 
had played in Three Rivers 
Stadium, which opened a year 
later. Stargell hit 29 homers in 
1969. 
"Nobody could hit a ball as far as Willie," Tanner said. "In 1979 in Montreal, he hit a ball so far there they painted the seat gold. I went up there the next day and sat in that seat, and everybody on [icld looked like puppets, that's how far it traveled." 
For his first 10 years in the majors, Stargell was content to play in Clemente's shadow, even after he passed Clemente in production. Stargell reluc­tantly became the Pirates' leader upon Clemente's death in a Dec. 31, 1972, plane crash, saying. "There's a time in a man's life when he has to decide if he's going to be a man." 
Stargell wore the mantle of leadership as well as he did an outfielder's glove or a first baseman's mitt as an unappre­ciated defensive player. 
Stargell enjoyed his best sea­son in 1971, with 48 homers and 125 RBIs. However, he was O-for-14 in the NL playoffs against the Giants and had only one RBI in the Pirates' seven-game World Series vic­tory over favored Baltimore. He left center stage to the 38­year-old Clemente, who, fear­ful he would never play in another Series, turned the postseason into a personal showcase of his grace, talent and determination. Only 14 months later. Clemente was dead. 
In 1979, it was Stargell's turn to transform the World Series into a one-man act for an aging star. At 39, seemingly several years past his prime, and after knee injuries had robbed him of his mobility and some of his strength, Stargell's postseason performance was every bit as haunting and as driven as Clemente's. 
Rumors fly over Jordan's return 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The owner of the 
Washington Wizards said he 
has a "gut feeling" that 
Michael Jordan will return to 
the NBA next season. 
In a story running on the front page of Tuesday's Washington Post. Wizards majority owner Abe Pollin said he believes the odds are that Jordan will play for the Wizards next season. Pollin stressed that he did not know if Jordan has made up his mind yet. 
"The odds are that he's going to come back," Pollin said. "I think he's going to decide whether he's going to be able to play at the level that is satisfying to him." 
Jordan, a part-owner and president of basketball oper­ations for Washington, has consistently said that he's 
99.9 percent sure he'll never play again. He was unavailable for comment Monday night. 
Pollin stressed to the Post that he was simply stating his opinion. "What I said was my gut feeling," Pollin said. "It's his decision. I didn't think he'd come back when I first heard the talk. But when Mario Lemieux came back to the Penguins, it stirred something in Michael." 
Lemieux, one of the owners of the Pittsburgh Penguins, returned to the ice in December after retiring at the end of the 1997 season and led the Penguins into the playoffs. 
Pollin said he thinks Jordan, who won six NBA titles with the Chicago Bulls, is going through a self-exam­ination of sorts. Jordan has been working out recently, including practicing with the Wizards. 
"lle's certainly working at seeing if he feels like he can return," Pollin said. "He's told me when he has some­thing to say about it, he'll tell me. 
"We'd welcome him with open arms," said Pollin, whose team's 18-59 record is third worst in the NBA. "It's his decision. It would have to be in his interest to come back and he would not do it unless he could perform at the standard he set for him­self. 
"But it would be very excit­ing for everyone." 
In order for Jordan to play again under NBA rules, he would have to divest his ownership interest in the Wizards N although he could find a caretaker to purchase his stake sell it back to him when he stops playing. 
"I am working out because I got up to 240 pounds and I'm trying to lose weight," Jordan said last month. "People are taking this stuff way too far, but I can't con­trol what people write or think so I'm not going to address this any more." 
Some of the speculation about Jordan's return has been fueled by Jordan's close friend, Charles Barkley. who has said he would like to play with Jordan in Washington next season. 
Jordan retired in 1993 after winning three NBA titles and tried to make a career in professional base­balI. But he returned for the NBA playoffs in 1995 and played through 1998, win-
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right co edit
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
FOR SALE 
Hide-a-bed sofa, beige plaid, 74", excellent cond. $200. Knollwood area. 2n-2510 
Europe $199 one way. Mexico/Caribbean or Central America $250 round trip plus tax. Other wide destinations cheap. It 
you beat these prices start your own darn airline! Book tickets on line www.airtech.com or loll free 
(877) AIRTECH. 
Oak~•II Condo -4 bdr/3 balh 112 mile from campus fireplace, deck, pool access $99,000/oest ofter call Tim@ 612· 802-0285 
S miles from Notre Dame 
Close to everything 4 bedrooms 1.5 baths recently remodeled Main level laundry fin­
ished basement 
2076 living area plenty of storage Call 256-0698 
FOR RENT 
Rent for fall semester 4 bedrooms, 2 full baths, washer&dryer, basement w/ hot tub, new furnance, security system. Call 2TT-<l636 SUMMER RENTAL 
821 E. Wash 5 bed $200/mo 
Eric 243-2902 
New home Fall 2001. This 3+ bdrm, 3 bath homw is close to cam­pus with features like fireplace, cahedral ceilings, family room, deluxe appliances, 24x30 garage. $1400/mo. Call 219-232-4527 or 616-683-5038. 
Fifth roomate needed for first 
semester. House is close to cam­
pus. Call Dan at 4-2091. 
Turtle Creek townhouse available 
tor summer session Call 272-0915 
Apt starting June 1 2 Bdrm 2 Bath W/D Minutes to campus. Call 243­0070. 
Nice 3-bdrm 1-1/2 bath Tri-level, family room, fireplace, fenced back yard, 2-car garage. $995/mo Call 219-232-4527Or 616-683-5038 
4 Bedrooms, 2 full baths, washer & dryer, basement w/ hot tub, new furnace, securily syst.em. Call to see 277-0636. 
Newly remodeled 5 bedroom house available to rent for tall semester. 2 full baths, washer & dryer, huge rec room, security system. Call now to see 2n-0636 1 br sublet 5/15-8/15, Downers Grove, IL, w/d, dw, ale, great com­plex, room for 2 people, $890/mo+util Rachel 312-498-6579 
Chicago two bedroom in Lakeview owned by Domer, nice closets, brick 6-flat, Hardwood floors, bright apartment, decorative fireplace, near el, heat included! May 1 1250/month n3-472-7775 
3-bdrm home 2 blks from campus, 
Fall 01 273-1566 
3 houses still available for 2001-02, 5-6 BR, Furnished, W/D, prime locations, 233-9947 Greg 
CHICAGO APT. AVAILABLE FOR 
MAY THROUGH AUGUST IN LIN­
COLN PARK LOCATION. CLOSE 
TOEL 
1 or 2 BEDROOMS 
OWN BATHROOM 
$780/mo. 
1·312-443•6062 JAIME 
3-6 BDRM HOMES $180 per person Furn. Summer/Fall 272-6306 
Rooms for rent. $250-$400/mo. + 
$100 up front deposit (refundable). Include. Utilities, w/d, partially lurnished, stove, refrig, micro. Call Robert 234-9387 (hOme) or 286-9367 (cell) 
ROOMS FOR GRAD WEEKEND 
Wild Irish Rose Inn 
3mi north of campus 
'brkfst buffet ea AM 
'clean, comfortable & 
affordable (2190 2n-4303 or 

www.wildirishrose.com 
studio apt. in quiet neighborhood near Notre Dame. Unlurnished, cable, patio; $330/mo. Plus electric. Available June. Tel. 616-687-8924 
One bedroom apt. on private wood­ed estate in Niles. Unfurnished, ale, garage, deck, gardens, creek, 575/mo. Inc. utilities. Available June. Tel. 616-687-8924 
-WANTED 
Returning to ND after college for graduate or law school? We are 
looking for another roommate to share furnished house near cam­pus. Call 289-5651 
Roommate(s) to fill out house ott campus 
Call Michael@ 288-3429 
Now hiring servers and hostesses at LePeep-Downtown South Bend. Great Hours, great Pay, Great Funl 288-7337 Need part-time leasing. Now to 
September. 20-25 hrs/week. 
Organization skills, filing, phone. 
Call Tara 272-1441 or 2721461. 
ROOMATE WANTED for next fall in 2BR 2 bath Oakhill Condo w/ AC, DW, W/D. For info call 243-8954, ask tor Pete. Grad student preferred. 
Graduating seniors· Looking to sell your apartment turni­ture (beds, desks, couches, etc)? ND juniors looking to buy. Call Nick at 4-4716 ii interested. 
PERSONAL 
Indiana Catholic couple with huge hearts wishing to adopt a child. We can provide your baby with lots of love and a secure, stable life. Reasonable expenses will be paid. For more info, please call Rebecca re Larry and Cathy: toll-free 1-866­30-ADOPT 
I'm awake but still dreaming Missing you, but beaming Because wonderful you Has decided to Light up my life' Love from afar, Your Lovebug 
Code Red: Break-glass emergency is getting near. 
Shoutout to Old El Paso: Sorry I 
couldn't make the game; win it for 
me and I'll come to the next one 
We'll make it Home stretch. 
It's that time again · Sophomore 
managers, you rock -AGAIN! 
See y'all at practice today, Kronk 
OK, intro to fiction writing, you guys all rock too -Bryan with a 'y' 
aw hell, everybody rocks. 
Kronk's in a good mood tonight 
LOST: 
Set of keys with a Gold ND Key 
Chain and red Swiss Army Knife 
Call Sam at 4-1981 
Kate Dalum • I hope you feel better' -Rach 
You too Kate Walter• Get better I 
Both Kates who are or will be my roommates are sick, how sad! 
Happy belated b-day Mikel Hope your day went well :) 
Hey Jake A. -do you really read these? If so, I hope you have a good dayl 
Kris and Lauren • luv you guys and I'm gonna miss you bunches -you too kale 

Tuesday, April 10, 2001 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
The Notre Dame Law School Natural Law Institute presents 

The Olin 
Distinguished 
Lecture Series 
¦ 
er1ts II 
Upcoming Lectures 
Germain Grisez April 19 
-.. ---------------­
John Gardner 
Professor of Jurisprudence Oxford University 
Tuesday. April 1o. 2001 
,
4 p.m. Notre Dame Law School Courtroom 
·-----•-------~--------·--.. 
-----------=====-========-======-=--=====================================--=--=-==~==========-=-.:::::===== 
Bookstore 
continued from page 24 
up a 4-0 lead. but MBA stars made a run to take an 8­6 lead. and Ill Tempered led just 11-9 at the half. It was a seesaw battle from that point on. with no lead ever getting above three poinlc;. 
The keys to the Ill Tempered win were Jon Pentzion's inside scoring and Tom Slabach's outside shooting during a stretch when his teammates had gone cold. 
"It was real tight the whole way, and in the second half Tom Slabach started hitting a couple outside shots," Ill Tempered Sea Bass point guard Matt Yung said. "It was a big defensive battle mostly. They're a very fit team -they had some big guys that can crash the boards. They're the best team we'll play for a few rounds." 
It's not usually considered a close game when one team scores three times more than its opponent, but that's what No. 3 seed NDToday.com thought of its 21-7 first-round win over 0-DAG! 
"They played hard the whole time," said NDToday's Todd Titus. "They were more aggressive than I thought." 
NDToday, whir,h lost in the finals a year ago. used a rebounding advantage to advance past a better-than­average first-round opponent. Mike Oesterle led the team in scoring and B.J _Kloska dropped in several long-distance jump shots. 
"We were getting the cobwebs out," said Oesterle. "Their guard was pretty good." 
Varsity basketball player Meaghan Leahy's team, Team 3()2, may have lost to Whipple Effect IV Monday. but Leahy said their Bookstore run isn't over yet. 
"We got 14 point_<;," Leahy said. "Now we're gonna go win the girls' bracket." 
Leahv's Notre Dame teammate Imani Dunbar dis­puted Leahy's claim. saying, "They're not gonna win." What was Dunbar's take on who would win 
Bookstore? "I don't know," joked Dunbar, who is also playing Bookstore. "Not Meaghan Leahy's team." One factor working against Team 392 was its lack of experience, with the exception of Leahy. As Lina Sidrys said. "We haven't played basketball in 10 years." 
Bookstore Basketball Results, April 9 
BOB def. We've Gotta ·Get Our Ball in There Somehow, 21-6 Team 22 def. Team 392, 21-14 Hot Curlers def. Team 381, 21-10 The Shining def. Syzygy, 21-5 Team 190 def. Team 275, 21-19 The Topeka Destroyers def. Chaminade, 21-12 Team 396 def. The Old and Injured, forfeit Ron and the Dirty Needles def. Disgusting Crack Habit, 21-13 Team· 10 def. Shirley Dimple... , 21-10 CollegeBoxes.com def. The Logan Center All-Stars. 21-8 Archie and 4 Other Guys Veronica Knew def. Baja Beach Club, 21-4 For Us, 3 Seconds Isn't a Violation. It's a Record def. Team 201, 21-13 Cheg's Flow def. Mulletosis, forfeit The Camaro Mullets def. NDToday vs. Keyplay.com, 21-10 The Piece Machines def. Digital Insertion, 21-5 Team 180 def. Team 57, 22-20 5 White Boys Who Will Never Dunk def. Team 43, 21-10 Breaking the Plane def. Yeah, Rob, 21-15 Bricklayers Local 956 def. Team 537. 24-22 Team 315 def. Dancing Baritones, 21-3 Skokes/Cbria Kia IV def. Zeus and 4 Other Gods, 21-5 2 Pats and 3 Other Guys def. Team 194, 21-18 International All-Stars def. David Graves' Neighbors, 21-5 
JOIW SUB 10 Y FOR ER COOKIE DECO ...rf/WG TUESDAY APRIL 10TH LA FORTUN€ 12PM-JPM 

*THERE WlLL BE NO SUB MOVJES THJS WEEKEND 
DUE TO THE EASTER HOLIDAY... JOJN US NEXT WEEK 

page 17
Tuesday, April 10, 2001 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
This Week in Campus Ministry 
Monday-Tuesday, April 9-10, 11 :30 pm-1 0:00pm St. Paul's Chapel, Fisher Hall 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Tuesday, April 10, 7:00 p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Campus Bible Study 
Tuesday, April 10, 7:00 p.m. 
Campus Stations of the Cross & Sacrament of Reconciliation The stations program will begin at the Grotto and con­tinue throughout the campus, concluding with Station XIV at the Basilica Adoration of the Cross and opportu­nity for individual sacrament of penance. 
Wednesday, April 11, 10:00 p.m. Morrissey Hall Chapel 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Wednesday, April 11, 6:30 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
RCIA Practice for Vigil 
Thursday, April 12, 5:00 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
RCIA-Mass Holy Thursday 
Friday, April 13, 8:00 a.m. Chicago's Hispanic Pilsen neighborhood 
"Via Crucis" (Way of the Cross) Depart from library Circle at 8:00 a.m. 
Friday, April 13, 3:00 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
RCIAMass Good Friday 
Friday, April 13 Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Good Friday Morning Prayer -9:00 a.m. Passion -3:00 p.m. Stations of the Cross -7:15 p.m. 
Saturday, April 14, 9:00 a.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Holy Saturday Morning Prayer 
Saturday, April 14, 10:00 a.m. Lounge, 1st floor, Coleman-Morse Center 
RCIA Morning Retreat 
Saturday, April 14, 9:00 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
RCIA Vigil 
Sunday, April 15, 1 :30 p.m. Zahm Hall Chapel 
Spanish Mass Presider: Rev. Tom Bednar, csc 
Sunday. April 15 Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Easter Sunday Presiders; 
8:00 a.m.-Rev. Richard S. Bullene, c.s.c. 
10:00 a.m. -Rev. Peter D. Rocca, c.s.c. 
12:00 noon -Rev. Richard V. Warner, c.s.c. 
The development of the New Testament was gradual. The earliest books of the New Testament were probably some ofthe letters of Paul and date back to the S0's, some 
20 years after Jesus' death. The gospels were written significantly later. Most of their development took place between the years 70 and 110. During chis same period many ocher Christian writings also entered into circulation among the various Christian communities. Even as the early Church was beginning to regard some of this Christian literature as scripture, it was not at all certain which of these books were
Faith FAQs 
or were not inspired scripture. Like many questions of the early church, this issue could not be decided until after
?Catholic facti 

Christianity became legal. The fourth century saw the definition of rhe Trinity and the natures of Christ 
(325) before it saw the definition 
Why do you say that the Catholic Church 
ofthe New Testament. The canon or list of the New Testament
gives us the Bible~ The Catholic Church 
books was not final until 393 at the council of Hippo in North
often ieemi to teach things that are not 
Africa, which was later confirmed by Rome. Interestingly, the
in scripture and Catholics certainly do not 
inclusion and exclusion of particular books was not a simple 
know the Bible like many Christians do. 
matter. Some of the books in the 
· New Testament were not widely regarded as scripture for generations, especially James, Revelation, and the Letter to the Hebrews. At the same ti(ne some books did not make the list which were popularly regarded as inspired writings. 
Thus, for the first three and a half centuries there was no Christian Bible to which one could refer with certainty. For the authentic teaching of the apostles, Christians depended on the teachings of the bishops who succeeded the apostles and whose first duty it was (and still is) to transmit faithfully the teachings ofChrist which they had received. It is on the authority of this body of bishops . . 
which we and all Christians depend for the authentic teaching of the apoitlei, whenever we open the Bible. It was (h . . d d d . h h. f h 
their deliberation, inspired by the Holy rlitlani epen e On t eteaC mgi Ot e Spirit, which included some books, bi'ho Cwho 'U d d th 'tl C d h fi t
excluded others and therefore compiled > P> > ccee e eapoJ eJ an WOie 1n the scriptures that we have today. duty it Wai (and itill ii) to trammit faithfully Jesus neither read nor wrote a word th . • • • 
of the New Testament. After his death eteachmgi of (hmt which they had received. 
he left us the witness ofhis disciples and the guidance of the Holy Spirit. To this day, scripture, (along with councils, liturgical practices and other traditions) remains one of the ways that the early church has communicated its faith in Christ across the centuries. • 
Ever wonder why we as Catholics do what we do or believe what we believe? Ask Father J. at ministry.1@nd.edu. 

Two opportunities for Stations of the Cross 
p
A M u s w I D E A N D E L G H T 
Stations of the Cross 
T 0 N G H T 
Procession begins at the Grotto at 7 p.m. Opportunity for Confession to follow at approximately 9:15 p.m. in the Basilica 
LA VIA CRUCIS 
IN CHICAGO1 SPILSEN NEIGHBORHOOD 
"The heart of Chicago1s Latino Community'' 
GOOD FRIDAY, APRIL 13 
Join more than 2000 faithful in the traditional Latino reenactment of our Lord's Passion and Death. Please sign up at 114 Coleman-Morse by Wednesday, April 1 
Seats are limited!Cost is $5 (includes transportation and simple I 
WOMEN'S GOLF
CLUB SPORTS 
Gymnasts earn 2nd national championship 
Specia.J lo The Observer 
The men's gymnastics team once again has vaulted to the pinnacle of success. winning the club national championship, a title it also claimed in 1998. The Irish team score of 147.75 nar­rowly edged runner-up Texas, 146.95. 
Defending champion Texas A&M took Bronze with a 145.95 score, just ahead of '99 champi­on Syracuse in fourth. Mickey McGarry and Jason Miller paced the Irish. with McGarry claiming sixth in the All-Around. McGarry took fifth in floor, sixth in rings, fifth in vault and sev­enth in parallel bars, while Miller placed sixth in the vault. Pete Asmuth also scored points for the Irish although he did not place. The trophy will be on dis­play at the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. 
The Irish women's team also distinguished itself. with its fourth consecutive top 10 rank­ing. finishing eighth in the cham­pionships. Emily Smith won Gold in the Uneven Bars with a 
9.6 performance to highlight the competition. Smith's fifth in the vault and seventh on both foor and balance beam earned her third in the all-around competi­tion. Erin Henry finished 11th in Ralance Beam and 17th in the all-around, as the team finished eighth with a 131.6 score. Texas. Texas A&M and Miami of Ohio took the top three spots. 
Women's Water Polo 
The Notre Dame women's water polo club claimed its sec­ond Midwest Championship in three years with a championship game 8-5 victory over rival and defending champion Miami Ohio. After blitzing through the first three rounds with victories over Miami B, 16-2, Bowling Green, 13-6. and Grand Valley. 15-1, the Irish faced a nemesis that had defeated them twice earlier this season -Miami Ohio. 
In what coach Brian Coughlin described as "an amazing game and great effort by all," The Irish displayed ability and composure. Trailing the Red llawks by two goals. the Irish tallied five straight scores. Lauren Kuzniar battled in hole to score four times, including a 4 meter rock­et. 
Liz Parolin splashed two more into the net. while drawing four ejections. Brigctt J\lge's tena­cious defense in the hole shut down Miami's MVP of a year ago. while Alge also scored twice for the Irish. 
Lisa Thomas proved to be among the best goalies in the country, and she received great defensive support from Meg Daday, Sarah Todnem. Margo Klosterman and Meghann Stepan, as these four also helped with assists on the attack. 
In four weeks the Irish will compete in the Nationals at Miami of Ohio, against the best teams from California, Florida, Arizona and the rest of the country. 
Ultimate Frisbee 
For the second week in a row, the women's squad claimed first place, as the Irish won the Great Lakes Invitational. In round robin play, the women defeated Oberlin, 8-6, University of Chicago. 11-3, Ohio State. 12-5 and Case Western, 11-5, before dropping an 11-10 decision to Ohio U.. Despite losing top play­er Carolyn Scully to injury, the Irish defeated Oberlin in the semilinaJs, 10-5, and Michigan in the championship, 10-9. Julia Pilipovich was the leading scorer for the Irish, while Monica Kerschner was a standout on defense. The club will return to action in the sectionals in two weeks. 
The men's squad again played shorthanded, as four top players were injured and missing from the tournament. Yet the Jrish still managed to post a 5-2 record. 
Because of strong wind condi­tions, the club played zone defense, which contributed to the Irish fast start, as they post­ed wins over Miami Ohio, 13-6, Ohio, 13-8; and Ohio State, 13­12, before dropping the finale on Saturday to Indiana, 13-7. In Sunday's quarterfinals, the Irish defeated Case Western, 13-1. and took the semifinals over Ohio State, 15-9, before falling in the finals to Indiana, 13-11. 
Salling 
The Notre Dame Sailing club placed third this weekend at the University of Michigan in the Big 10 Team Racing Regatta. Michigan and Wisconsin finished first and second ahead of the Irish, with Northwestern, Minnesota, and Iowa State plac­ing fourth, fifth and sixth respec­tively. 
Rowing 
Fresh off its win in last week's Lubber's Cub over Michigan State and Grand Valley State, the Howing club traveled to Ypslianti, Mich. to challenge Michigan and Michigan State. Twenty mile-per-hour quarter­ing tail winds with gusts forced the cancellation of the 3F and Varsity 4-plus races. In the events that were held, it was a clean sweep for Michigan, as the Wolverines won the Freshman 4-plus. Varsity 8, followed by Notre Dame and Michigan State, and in the final race on the long course, wind conditions swamped all but two boats, forc­ing the course to be shortened to 91 O meters. On the short course, Michigan again topped the Irish with the Spartans trail­ing in the firsts and second Freshman 8 races. 
Irish finish 13th at Indiana Invite 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame women's golf team moved up one spot in the standings on Sunday after­noon to finish 13th at the Indiana Invitational with a 54-hole total of 993. 
The Irish lowered their score by 20 strokes compared to Saturday's final round of 337 by shooting a 317 total for the day. Notre Dame came into Sunday's final round in 14th place after rounds of 339 and 337 on Saturday, 
The Irish finished the tour­na ment 71 strokes behind Michigan State, as the Spartans won the tournament by 11 strokes over Kent State. Michigan State played the 54­ho le tourney on the 6,134 yard, par 74 Indiana University Golf Course with rounds of 314, 313 and a one-under par 295 in the final round for a 922 total. MSU entered the day with just a one stroke lead over Ohio State and Indiana, but was nine strokes better than any other team on Sunday for the win. 
Kent State finished second with a 933 total and was fol­lowed by Northwestern (939). Ohio State (940) and Indiana 
(943) to round out the top five teams in the 15-team tourna­ment. 
Leading Notre Dame indi­vidually was senior Shane Smith, who finished in a tie for 23rd with an 18-over par total of 240. Smith rebounded from an 81-82 opening day to shoot a three-over par 77 in the final round. Her 240 score put her 17 strokes behind Michigan State's Emily Baste! who took medal­ist honors with a one-over par 223 in the tournament. 
Baste! won by two strokes 
over Kent State's Martina 
Gillen and three over team­
mate Stacy Snider. 
Freshman Shannon Byrnn turned in the best round of the tournament for Notre Dame, as she fired a two-over 76 in the final round to put her in a tie for 42nd with a 245 total. Byrne shot 82 and 87 for the opening 36 holes of the tourney. 
Following Byrne among the Irish golfers was sophomore Terri Taibl, who finished in 62nd place with a 253 score. Senior Danielle Villarosa fin­ished in a tie for 68th, as she shot an 81 in the final round to give her a 54-hole total of 
257. Kristin McMurtrie tied for 74th on the weekend with a 266 total on rounds of 91,87, and 88. 
The women's golf team returns to action on Friday. April 14 at the Illinois Invitational in Champaign, Ill. 
MEN'S GOLF 
Golfers hang onto 13th spot 
Specia.J to The Observer 
The Notre Dame men's golf team closed out the final day of play at the Marshall Invitational with a nine-over par team total of 293 on the way to a 54-hole mark of 880. That put the Irish in 13th place in the 20-team tourna­me-nt field. The Irish turned in rounds of 298, 289 and 293 to finish 41 strokes behind the record-setting pace of Ohio State as the Buckeyes took the tournament title for the 16th time. OSU turned in a record­low team score of 13-under par 839 on the 6,446-yard, par 71 Guyan Golf and Country Club course. 
The Irish, who started the day in 13th, just 10 strokes out of fourth place. were unable to move up in the standings as they finished 10 strokes behind Xavier University who finished fourth with an 870 total. 
Ohio State finished 16 strokes in front of second place 
TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS . The Students' 1st choice in Off-Campus Housmg 
DON'T WAIT APPLY TODAY!!!! 
P: 272-8124 

Do a little dance, Make a little love, get down tonight . _. 
Happy 20th Sheep! Baa... 
Love, Your little sluts 
Toledo which scored an 855. The Rockets· finished two strokes ahead of Miami-Ohio who finished third with a 54­hole total of 857. Xavier was fourth with 870. while Michigan and Kentucky tied for fifth with 871 totals. 
Senior Alex Kent turned in Notre Dame's top individual scores, finishing in a tie for 19th with a three over par total of 216. Kent closed the tournament on Saturday with a two-over par 73 to follow up rounds of 72 and 71 on Friday. 
The 216 total was eight strokes oIT the pace set by Ohio State's Mike Austin. whose five-under par total of 208 tied the Marshall Invitational 54­hole record, set in 1998 by Michigan's Michael Harris. 
Following Kent among the Irish golfers was freshman Peter Rivas, who turned in the best 54-hole total of his colle­giate career with a seven-over par total of 220. Hivas turned in rounds of 72, 76 and 72 to finish in a tie for 40th overall. Sophomore Kyle Monfort fin­ished in a tie for 53rd with a 10-over par 223 as he turned in rounds of 77, 72 and 74. 
Junior Steve -Hatay was 59th overall, as he shot a 54-hole total of 225, and senior Pat Schaffler closed out the Irish contingent, scoring with a 64th place tie as he fired rounds of 77, 75 and 74 on the way to a 226 total. 
Notre Dame returns to action next weekend, Saturday and Sunday, April 14 and 15, when the Irish travel to Columbus. Ohio to compete in Ohio State's 54-hole Kepler Invitational at the OSU Scarlet Course. 

Tuesday, April 10, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish come back to earn 4-3 victory over Baylor 
4-1 at No. 4 singles befom rallying for a 3­6, 6-4, 6-3 win in the match at 3-3. 
In Sunday's match against ninth-ranked Southern Methodist University, the Irish kept iL dose in their third 4-3 loss of the season. SMU swept all three doubles matches, beating the Irish 8-6 at No. 1 and 2 doubles and 8-3 at No. 3. 
Smith again had the biggest challenge of the match, playing SMU's 6th ranked senior Genius Chidzikwe in the deciding match. The Mustang's 24th-ranked. .Jon Wallmark also defeated Javier Taborga at No. 2 singles, 6-3, 7-6, and Brian Farrell lost only his third dual singles match of the year, 6-4, 6-3 to SMU's Johan Brunstrom. 
"I was awfully proud of Casey. LChidzikwe] is one of the best college ten­nis players in the country. He played in the Davis Cup for Zimbabwe, and was an IPA All-American. His expnience really showed," said Bayliss. 
The three wins of the day for the Irish again demonstrated their depth in the middle of their lineup. Haddock-Morales defeated Krystian Pfeiffer 3-6. 6-4, 7-5 at no. 3 singles, Aaron Talarico defeated Alexis Rudzinski 6-2. 6-2 at No. 4 singles, and Matt Daly won 6-4, 6-3 over SMU's Lukasz Scnszysyn at No. 6. 
"Luis [Haddock-Morales] really had a break out match against SMU. Aaron Talarico was solid as could be and has really been a rock all season," said Bayliss. "It was a great weekend for him, too." 
The Irish face 18th-ranked Indiana State at home today at 3:30 p.m. 
"Indiana State has a solid team, especial­ly at No. 1 and 2 singles. Most are consis­tent, baseline players. They're a little more rested, but we're a little more seasoned," said Bayliss. 
They will not have to travel for a match again until the Big East at the end of the 
month. 
"It's been a tough stretch, and we've played a lot of good teams," said Bayliss. "But you don't have a chance to do well at the end of the year unless you know what's in you." 

By KATIE HUGHES 
Sports Writer 
Fighting high winds and weather condi­tions, the 16th-ranked men's tennis team sent Baylor packing in Texas this week­end. defeating the team 4-3. 
The Irish fought their way back from a 2-0 deficit early in the 
match to claim the win. 
"The conditions were far from perfect. but I think our guys did a great job of keeping their poise and fighting hard when there was every 

reason to fold up and Bayliss go home," said head coach Bobby Bayliss. "It was difficult to adjust, and any of them deserve a lot of credit." 
The 21st-ranked Irish doubles team of juniors Javier Taborga and Aaron Talarico defeated Baylor's 18th-ranked team of Reiner Neurohor and Mark Williams 9-7 at No. 1 doubles. The No. 32 ranked Baylor Bears defeated Notre Dame's no. 2 doubles teams of freshman Luis Haddock-Morales and Casey Smith 8-6 and also the No. 3 team of senior Matt Daly and sophomore Brian Farrell 8-2. 
The Bears opened up their lead as Irish freshman Matt Scott lost 6-1, 6-1 to Cory Ross at No. 6 singles. Defying the momen­tum of the match, the Irish rallied at No. 1 and 2 singles to tie the match. Junior Casey Smith took control with a decisive victory over Baylor's Neurohor 6-3, 6-4 at No. 1 singles, and 99th-ranked junior Javier Taborga won 6-2 at No. 2. 
Baylor moved ahead to 3-2 after Mark Williams beat Irish freshman Luis Haddock-Morales 7-6 (7-0), 6-1 at No. 3 singles. Sophomore Brian Farrell tied the match at 3-3 when he defeated Nathan McGregor 6-2. 7-6 (7-5) at No. 5 singles. 
Aaron Talarico trailed Matias Marin 3-6, 
SOFTBALL 
Notre Dame earns sweeps Syracuse in doubleheader 
Sharron and Kristin Schmidt both By PETER FRASSO pitched shutouts for the Irish, extend­Sports \Xlritcr ing Notre Dame's consecutive score~ 
less innings streak to 28. Sharron 
The Notre Dame softball team con­yielded five hits and struck out nine. tinued its winning ways on Sunday while Schmidt flirted with a no-hitter with a doubleheader win over before giving up a bunt hit in the fifth. 
Syracuse by identi-She finished cal scores of 6-0 with a one hit­and 6-0. "We're gtting it done ter, and nine 
Unfortunately, it strikeouts.
offensively, and we're getting 
was a only a Pyrrhic Notre Dame's 
victory as third the pitching down." team ERA is baseman Andrea now 0.98, rank­Bledsoe suffered a ing in tho top
Liz Miller
leg injury from a 15 nationally. violent collision in head coach Jenny Kriocb 
the first inning of game two. 
Bledsoe and Syracuse second base­man Lindsay Richards collided as Bledsoe attempted to steal second. Both lay on the ground for minutes before being helped off the field. 
Notre Dame coach Liz Miller report­ed that it was a PCL tear. and she will be out two to four weeks. 
"Andrea said she'll be back in a week," said Miller. "It's good that she's got that attitude,". 
Bledsoe was 4-5 with a double and two RBI before being removed from the game due to the injury. 
"We've got to have good contribution from those who step in her place," said Miller. "She was playing great before she went down, she had a key double in the first game." 
With the two wins, they improved their record to an outstanding 32-3, and 8-0 in the Big East. 
Pitching was again the key, as Jen 
showed again 
why she is a premier leadoIT hitter, going 6-8 with a triple and two RBIs. Lizzy Lemire, leading the charge, was 4-7, including a double and her second homer of the season, with four runs and three BBi. 
Jarrah Myers, who leads the team with a .624 slugging percentage, rebounded from an 0-4 first game to go 3-4 with three runs in game two. Andrea Loman, who on Saturday against Connecticut provided all of the offense in tho game with a solo home run, had and RBI double. 
"We're really getting the job done right now," commented Miller. "We're getting it done offensively, and we're getting the pitching down." 
The No. 11 Irish have won seven straight doubleheaders, seemingly headed for a birth in the top 10. 
The team tries to stay on a roll Wednesday when it welcomes Bowling Green to town. The first pitch is scheduled for 3:30 p.m. at Ivy Field. 
WOMEN'S TRACK 
Graf breaks school record in Belles' meet 
By MOLLY MCVOY Senior Staff Writer 
The Belles continued to run like this is their last season at the College Saturday in a MIAA dual meet. 
Junior Laura Graf broke the school record in the 400 meter dash with a time of 59.10, shav­ing nearly three seconds off the old record of 1:02.0 that had been held by Cyndy Short since 1982. 
The Belles split the meet, beating Olivet 69-58, while los­ing to Adrian 86-58. This was the first league meet the Belles competed in, and their record is now 1-1 in the conference. 
"We gave Adrian a run for their money," senior co-captain Kara Bergman said. "We gener­ally did a very good job." 
Graf finished first in both the 400 meter dash, where she broke the record and the 200­meter dash where she recorded a time of 28.70. Junior Erica Burket also was a two-time win­ner for Saint Mary's, winning the 100 meter hurdles (16.90) and the triple jump (31 '0"). 
The Belles took both the 400 meter relay with a time of 54.55 and the 1600 motet relay, post­ing a time of 4:42.70. The 400 meter team consisted of Graf. Burket, freshman Jaclyn Thompson and freshman Bechy Shepkowski while the 1600M team included Graf, sophomore Whitney Ross, Erin Thayer and freshman Nicole Garcia. 
Every team member that com­peted in Saturday's meet scored for Saint Mary's. Although track is often perceived as an individ­ual sport, the Belles feel that this sort of teamwork is essen­tial for success. 
"With the low number of peo­ple we have on the team, every­one contributing is especially important," Bergman said. 
Saint Mary's will face another dual MIAA league meet on Saturday. They will face Alma and Calvin at Calvin College at noon. Alma has a 1-1 record in the MIM and Calvin has yet to compete in a league meet this season. Alma and Calvin will face each other at Hope College on Wednesday before facing Saint Mary's. Both Calvin and Alma defeated Saint Mary's in their meetings last season. 
"We want to basically do our best Saturday. Calvin is the biggest team in our league and they always are at the top of the league," Bergman said. 
"We go back and forth with Alma. I know they lost a lot of really strong seniors last year so there's a good chanc,e we can beat them. However, we have yet to see them in competition." 
page 20 
Tennis  
continued from page 24  
that will be facing off against  
I I  a strong Saint Mary's fresh­men attack topped off with  
' I II. I I  three returning players. Jeannie Knish, Kaitlin Cutler and Kris Spriggle will be step­ping up again in No. 3, No. 4 and No. 5 singles while Cook  
I I I  takes on No. 2 doubles and sophomore Elisa Ryan wraps  
I I I I I  up the team at No. 6 singles. These six women. along with Trisha Jones, who will team up with Ryan at No. 3  
doubles, spent Monday's prac­ 
tice getting mentally ready for  
today's match.  
"It  was  a  pretty low key  
practice just hitting and get­ 
ting loose," Knish said. "At  
this point its not so much get­ 
ling physically prepared but  
getting mentally prepared so  
we get the match started on  
the right foot."  
Mental preparation teamed  
up with home court advantage  
will play a  big role in a  Saint  
Mary's victory. The Belles  
have played well  at home.  
They are currently undefeated  
at Saint Mary's, including a  
victory  over  Division  I  
Valaparaiso.  
"I love playing at home hav­ 
ing the home court advantage  
and a lot of parents come out  
and it's  a  relaxing environ­ 
ment," Knish said.  
Action will get under way  
today at 3 p.m. at the tennis  
courts  outside  of  Angela  
Athletic facility.  

The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, April l 0, 200 I 
MEN'S LACROSSE 
Seniors lead Irish to win over Air Force 
By JOE LICANDRO 
Sports Writer 
Thanks to three goals apiece from seniors Todd Ulrich and Jon Harvey, combined with another strong per­formance from senior goalie Kirk Ilowell, the men's lacrosse team eas­ily defeated its Great Western Lacrosse League rivals Air Force Falcons 13 to 2. 
With their third straight blowout victory, the seventh-ranked Irish improved to 8-1 on the season with only four games left to play in the regular season. 
"For the third straight game, we jumped out to a quick lead," said head coach Kevin Corrigan. "That makes it much easier to control the game and play for a full 60 minutes." 
The Irish jumped out to a critical quick start as junior Devin Ryan got the scoring started on a strong drive through the heart of the Air Force defense for a one-on-one chance against Air Force goalie Bill Arnold. 
After Ryan capitalized on his opportunity, Steve Bishko, Ulrich and Harvey rounded out the scoring in the first quarter, giving the Irish a 4­0 lead. 
Todd Ulrich would add two of the Irish's four total second quarter goals. allowing the Irish to take a substantial 8-0 advantage heading into halftime. 
Ulrich has been on a scoring tear over the last two games, netting seven goals in the games, raising his season total to 10. 
"I have had some good looks at the net over the last two games," said Ulrich. "Playing at home makes it a lot easier." 
The Jrish continued their domi­
nance in the second half. adding five 
more goals. After some spectacular 
saves, Irish goalie Kirk Howell would 
leave the game midway through the 
third quarter posting a shutout. 
"I only had to stop five shots the whole game," said Howell. "Our defense played well again so they made my job a lot easier out there." 
Coach Corrigan began pulling his starters in the second half, allowing the younger sophomores and fresh­men. to gain some valuable experi­ence. 
Sophomore backup goalie Nick Antol would pick up where Howell left off, making some incredible saves and allowing Air Force only two goals. Freshmen John Mulfur and Steve Clagget provided the scor­ing with each netting their first career goals. 
''l was really happy with the play of our sophomores and freshmen," said Corrigan. "They work hard in practice just like the juniors and seniors. These last three games, the younger guys have been gaining some experience. I enjoy watching them keep getting better." 
With the victory over Air Force, the Irish improved to· 3-0 in Great Western Lacrosse League Divisional Play. This was the second of a four game home stand for the Irish. 
The Irish next host Army on Saturday at lp.m., where they look to continue their strong team defense and relentless offensive pressure in hoping to continue to climb up the national rankings before the start of the NCAA tourna­ment. 
...,...,..,.,.,,..,,;s:;:";.":,,':,,~...,....:;;"".,~~,-~~~mi;;:l,;:;F~~.~*0 ]~~-~~:~:~ ;,::1-,~~"-;~•~ '.: 
·_. .--,r 
. ~/*.'.:-.~ ~~-;~;-<'.--~-~•~t(· .j:~.--_ii_f~ ·• ~~~}-,:_!,'!i ~~;--:""~ -'.i:~J-~.~~ .I -·--r· ~-~•-r·· 
---r-~ .-• -·.•. 
--;• -~­
'•:<1: 
,.,,.t:-.::;-j_~"';. ·0· 
•,;f!•'',.'c~.'t/ ~~~;-....-~ --~~-,:. • 
-,,,,.....,.,..'="=",, ~~,i~;-£,,;.-,);_1;_-11~ :-1\:. 
(~@,'#}~. t~t,·l·,J.. .~ 
,,: ~.ft;.,.,,,1h ' ?: 
., .. ~ii~, :.7::::.77-:·0:· 
,_.,,,...,"""""""' """'""""'""""""""'" . . :~-1 
!":.J~'f' 
~~!.,; ·,..\){ /-'!"if', ~ 
.._...,.,_,r.,r,-,_~--i'f itJ~A_; -~"!;!-.::., 
·,:Ur~ff}:Ji F 
' _' ~~-~ 
:t1,>:r-F~ ~ """"'....,...;:.,;.;~....;. :r](.~"T,_'f 
~..,,..,.--"' P.~,~t<i¾'.,,t, ,.... .·..'. .. ~ffl,'3 ~;;i.· 


--·­
Tuesday, April IO, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
BASEBALL 
Irish show command with Big East sweep of Rutgers 

ERNESTO LACAYO/The Observer Freshman Steve Sollman, shown above, prepares to swing. Notre Dame improved to 25-5-1 with three wins in a weekend sweep over Rutgers. 
PPE THE MINOR IN PHILOSOPHY, POLITICS, AND ECONOMICS 
The PPE Concentration invites applications from undergraduates with special interests in the intersecting areas of political philosophy, political theory, and economic analysis. Every year about twenty highly motivated and talented students are admitted to PPE. Check it out to see if it is for you. Many of our students go on to careers and top graduate programs in law, public policy, philosophy, political science, and economics. 
If you are looking for 
(1) 
an integrated approach to politics and justice, without all the requirements of a second major, and 

(2) 
an intellectual community of faculty and students who share your interests, 


then PPE wants you! 
FOR MORE INFORMATION, contact either Professor David O'Connor, Philosophy Department, O'Connor.2@nd.edu, 631-6226, or Professor John Roos, Government Department, Roos. I@nd.edu. 
FOR AN E-1\IAIL APPLICATION, simply send a request to either Professor John Roos at Roos. l@nd.edu or Professor David O'Connor at O'Connor.2@nd.edu. The application deadline is noon on Thursday, April 12. Late applications will be accepted onlv if openings are still available. 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Sports W ri rer 
The headed into Piscataway. New Jersey for a crucial three-game series with Big East rival Rutgers last week­end. 
Walking away Sunday after­noon with three wins, the Irish completed their first ever sweep of a Notre Dame­Rutgers series, and started on the inside track to the regular season Big East title. 
The Irish blew away the Scarlet Knights Saturday. win­ning the two games of the double-header, 10-2 and 8-2. On Sunday, the team showed great poise mixed with some clutch hitting to pull out an eleven-inning 5-4 victory. 
The three wins of the week­end improved Notre Dame's record to 25-5-1. The Irish were rewarded for their great play with their highest ever ranking in the collegiate polis. Notre Dame now holds respec­tive rankings of 4, 6 and 7 in the College Baseball, USA Today/Coaches and Baseball America Polls. 
"It was as good of a series as I've ever seen at my tenure at Notre Dame," stated Coach Paul Mainieri. "The overall team effort was great. Everyone got involved to do something to help us win. Pitching, defense. hitting, base running -we did everything well." 
The team contributions were evident in the numbers from the series. In. the three games, 10 different players got hits while nine contributed RBIs to the team's 23 total runs. 
Six different members of the Irish pitching staff put togeth­er three more brilliant out­ings, only allowing eight runs in the series. 
In the first game of the dou­ble-header, Notre Dame ace Aaron Heilman pitched his fifth complete game of the season, allowing two runs on only three hits. 
The right-handed senior improved to 8-0 on the year. The win was also his 18th career Big East victory, mov­ing him into first place all­time in that category. 
The game had been knotted at 2-2 until the Irish bats exploded in the sixth inning, bringing eight runs across the plate. The inning began when freshman Steve Sollmann, leading the team in batting with a .426 average, slapped a lead off single. After right fielder Brian Stavisky walked, Kris Billrnaier broke open the tie with a two-run single. The RBIs were two of the four in the series for Billmaier, who is batting .324 with runners in scoring position-seventy points above his normal average. 
Junior Ken Meyer brought in another run with a hard ground ball that was followed by a double from first base­man Joe Thaman. Center fielder Steve Stanley then brought in Meyer and Thaman with another single. 
Appropriately, Sollrnann capped off the inning that he started with his third homcrun of the season, pacing the Irish in that category as well. 
The Irish carried the momentum of the first game into the nightcap, kicking off the game with five runs in the team's first turn at bat. In this inning, third baseman Andrew Bushey had a bases loaded double that provided three of his five RBIs on the day. Notre Dame added two more runs in the inning on singles by 0H Matt Bok and Thaman. Sophomore J.P. .Gagne improved to 2-2 on the year with his six-inning perfor­mance, and classmate Brandon Viloria earned the save by pitching three score­less innings in relief. · 
In the game Sunday. the Irish demonstrated the poise that will make them a con­tender this year for the national title, battling back from a 3-0 deficit in the eighth inning to steal a game from Rutgers on their own field. 
"Sunday we showed a really great attitude," commented Mainieri. "Our guys never threw in the towel. and they ended up fighting back for the win." 
It was not until their last at bat that the Irish would make their move. 
It all began with the top of the lineup that has been such a key to igniting the Irish offense this year. The first and second hitters, Stanley and Sollmann, once again put together back-to-back singles. Stavisky then slapped a single to score Stanley. After a dou­ble steal, Billmaier brought home Sollmann with a sacri­fice fly; however, there were two outs in the inning. One out away from a loss, catcher Paul O'Toole -0-3 on the day­came through with a great piece of clutch hitting. knock­ing a single to tie the game. 
Notre Dame avoided a scare in the tenth inning when sophomore Matt Laird got out of a one-out bases loaded jam. Laird got Rutgers' left fielder Nick Cerulo to pop out to shal­low left and then struck out DH Jeff Majewski. 
In the 11th inning, the Irish went on top for good when Sollmann singled to start the inning. Billmaier then came through with another clutch RBI. getting a single that would score Sollmann all the way from first with the help of some errant throws by the Rutgers fielders. 
The Irish don't plan on let­ting these big wins go to their heads, however, as there is much baseball left to play, especially in the Big East. 
"We're not looking past any­one on our schedule," said Mainieri. "We have got a lot of tough games this week and a few injuries to deal with. Our guys will just play every game as its own." 
Notre Dame has a busy week ahead, facing two non-confer­ence opponents, Cleveland State and Detroit, on Tuesday and Wednesday. Then the Irish return to Big East play with doubleheaders against Georgetown on Thursday and West Virginia on Saturday. 
page 22 The Observer. SPORTS Tuesday, April 10, 2001 
NFL 
Aikman announces retirement 
Asso~iatcd Press 
IRVING, Texas 
As always, Troy Aikman 
came to Texas Stadium with 
his game face on. 
lie brought an inch-thick 
stack of index cards and 
enough family and friends to 
till a ballroom. Banners from 
the three Super Bowls he won 
hung from the hole-in-the-roof 
visible behind him. 
But when it came time to talk 
about the end of his 12-year 
career. the usually unflappable 
quarterback was overcome by 
emotion. 
A few sentences into his 
nearly 1 1/2-hour retirement 
news conference Monday, 
Aikman put down the cards, 
took a breath and dragged a 
finger beneath and above his 
left eye. 
"You watch and you think 
your time will never come,'' 
Aikman said slowly. "And my 
time's come." 
Aikman called it a career 33 
days after being waived by the 
Dallas Cowboys. · 
While he believes he can still 
be a starting quarterback in 
the NFL, the right job wasn't 
out there. 
So rather than risk suffering an 11th concussion or taking another hit on his aching back, the 34-year-old Aikman ended his playing career and is preparing to start another as a broadcaster. 
"I know it's the right thing for me because of my health, concussions, the back prob­lems I've had," Aikman said. "It took its toll." 
Aikman is close to finalizing a deal with Fox to replace Matt Millen as the partner for play­by-play announcer Dick Stockton, an industry source told The Associated Press on condition of anonymity. An announcement could come as early as Tuesday. the source said. 
Aikman's life is rapidly changing. He recently moved to California and in late August his wife is due to have their first child. The couple also is raising an 11-year-old daugh­ter from her previous mar­riage. 
"I wanted to play. I just can't do that anymore," Aikman said. "l think when all things are considered it was the right thing for me and my family." 
Aikman bit his lip as Cowboys owner Jerry Jones introduced the first player he ever drafted and reminisced about the rise of the team and the quarterback. · 
Before he turned the micro­phone over to Aikman, Jones presented a video prepared by NFL Films. It began with home movies from Aikman's youth and featured great moments from his career. 
Aikman told about going to the Green Bay Packers' final game in 1988 and rooting for them to win so Dallas would have the top pick in the draft. The Packers won and. before leaving the stadium, Aikman 'iought a Cowboys cap. 
Dallas made Aikman the first pick in 1989 and also drafted Daryl Johnston, Mark Stepnoski and Tony Tolbert. 
"One of the most meaningful things in my career was com­ing in with that group," 
"You watch and you think your time will never come. And my time's come." 
Troy Aikman Cowboys' player 
Aikman said. 
He recalled losing the first 11 
games of his career and 
thanked former teammates and 
coaches for propping up his 
confidence during that time. He 
said that type of character was 
the hallmark of Dallas' Super 
Bowl champion teams in 1992, 
'93 and '95. 
"There was no animosity, no 
selfishness. nobody wanting 
any more credit than the next 
guy," he said. "We just wanted 
to win. 
"There have been a lot of 
teams in this league that have 
been more talented than those 
teams were, but they didn't 
come close to accomplishing 
what we did because the chem­
istry of that ballclub and 
unselfish manner in which we 
played. You can't beat that 
combination." 
Then, showing the candor 
that will serve him well in 
broadcasting, Aikman added: 
"Maybe over recent years 
we've lost sight of that. It's 
become a game that every­
body's in it for themsel".es." 
Aikman talked about the 
things he'll miss. such as the 
locker room after a big win, 
and the things he won't, like 
facing reporters after a big 
loss. 
He also thanked scores of 
people. He named 18 offensive 
linemen, about a dozen coach­
es. including Barry Switzer, 
and practically every member 
of the Cowboys' organization, 
including Jones and his family. 
He had trouble talking about specific teammates, especially "The Triplets" -himself, receiver Michael Irvin and run­ning back Emmitt Smith. 
"I loved it when they called us that," Aikman said, teary­eyed. "l told Emmitt when I saw him earlier, 'There's noth­ing I would've loved more than to be on the field when you break Walter Payton's record."' 
Sitting in the second row, Smith draped an arm around Irvin and both bit their lips as they held back their emotions. 
"All three of us stepped up," said Smith, who is 1.561 yards behind Payton's career rushing mark. "We all pushed one another. 
"He probably was the laid­back one, but he was the stub­born one. too. His stubbornness was really his way of showing that losing was not an option." 
Aikman never lost his desire to win, but age and injuries sapped his ability. 
He missed five games last year with injuries and was knocked out of three more in the first quarter. He suffered four of his 10 concussions in his last 20 starts. 
When Aikman played last season, he lacked his trade­mark arm strength and accura­cy. He had the worst QB rating among NFC starters. 
The Cowboys waived him March 7, one day before owing him a $7 million bonus and seven-year contract extension 
A few weeks into being a free agent for the first time, Aikman told agent Leigh Steinberg he was finally ready to consider­ing a job in broadcasting. Networks have been interested in Aikman since he did color commentary on NFL Europe games for Fox two years ago. 
Aikman's legacy begins with his three Super Bowl titles. Only Joe Montana and Terry Bradshaw won as many. 
His 90 wins in 1990s are the most by any quarterback in any decade. Aikman also won his first seven playoff games and 10 of his first 11, and was the ·MVP of his first Super Bowl. 
Rather than joining Montana, Joe Namath and Johnny Unitas as quarterbacks whose careers ended in seemingly foreign uni­forms, Aikman will forever be a Cowboy. 
"It's going to be very difficult to view the Dallas Cowboys the same way," Johnston said. 
Aikman also joins the list of NFL stars who have retired at least partly because of concus­sions. 
Other notables include Steve Young, who reluctantly quit last summer, and Roger Staubach, who led Dallas to two Super Bowl titles before retiring in March 1980 at age 38. 
'Tm looking forward to being a supporter of the Dallas Cowboys," Aikman said. "I want to watch them win anoth­er Super Bowl. I know it's going to happen." 

NCAA BASKETBALL 
Arizona's Wright declares for draft 
Associated Press 
TUCSON 
Michael Wright. a third­team all-American and three­year starter for NCAA runner­up Arizona, is the second Wildcats player in two days to announce he will skip his senior season to enter the NBA draft. 
The 6-foot-7. 238-pound power forward's announce­ment Monday came one day after teammate Richard Jefferson said he would forego his final year of eligibility to go to the NBA. 
"I think we are all working toward the goal of being pro­fessionals and I think this is my time to go after it with all my energies," Wright said in a statement released by the uni­versity. 
Until this season, coach Lute Olson had only two players leave school early for the NBA -Brian Williams in 1991 and Mike Bibby in 1997. 
Yet to be heard from is sophomore guard Gilbert Arenas, who also is strongly considering leaving for the 
NBA. 
If Arenas goes, that would leave only sophomore point guard Jason Gardner remain­ing from the starting lineup of the team that lost to Duke in the national championship game. 
Center Loren Woods was the only senior among the Wildcats' starters. 
In his statement, Wright thanked Olson, assistant coach Jim Rosborough and under­graduate assistant Josh Pastner, who was his road roommate for three years. 
"Special thanks to the peo­ple of Tucson, who touched me in ways they can ever know," Wright said. "Tucson was a different world for me to adjust to three years ago. Tucson took me into their hearts and I leave Tucson a better person." 
Wright, who grew up in Chicago. had nine double-dou­bles last season and 34 for his college career. 
While Wright was an out­standing college player, some NBA scouts wonder if his size makes him too small for power forward and too big and bulky for small forward. Wright had 10 points and 11 rebounds in Arizona's loss to Duke. 
He averaged 15.6 points, and a team-leading 7.8 rebounds in 36 games last season. 
All five Arizona starters averaged in double figures in scoring last season. 
Jefferson, whose NBA stock rose sharply with his strong NCAA tournament run, aver­aged 11.3 points, 5.4 rebounds and 2.7 assists in 35 games. 
Tuesday, April 10, 2001 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
FOURTH AND INCHES 

RULE OF DORM UFE #37: WHEN YOU REALLY NEED TO GO, THE ONLY EMPTY STALL WIU. ALWAYS BE DISGUSTING 
L 
/ 
~ \._ 
Fox TROT 
You l>REW THAT GoATEE oN WELL, '\'OUR FACE 'YEAH. 
I
W1TH A BLUE LAUNDRY 
MARIC 
WE HAVE StHooL ToMoRRoW. I'M Nor GotNG To USE 
SOMETHING TI-IAT 
OoESN'T WASH ofF! EASILY. 
I ~ \ 
r 
j 
E 
PETER, LAUNDRY MARkERS ARE Lll<E ToTAU."'1' f'fRMANENT'. WHERE oN EAlml WoOLt, '!'OU GET lliE I 1HIS lNK WII.SHES 
TYLER
TOM KEELEY THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 
BILL AMEND 
"'JA· 
SoNNt,l!.._ 
I " ... 
In theory. studying outdoors is a great idea. 
EUGENIA LAST
CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
TUESDAY, APRIL 10, 2001 
ACROSS 32 Inquires 66 Like overused gym clothes 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON be that easy for you to adjust to.
1 "A Jug of Wine, 3S Whizzes 
THIS DAY: Steven Seagal, Chuck Moderation will be the key. 00 a Loaf of Bread 38 Skater Harding 67 Cause for a 
Connors, Omar Sharif, Mandy VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22):
lawsuit
-and Thou" 39 With 62-Across, Moore, John Madden, Babyface, You'll make new friends if you poet the question is 68 Cry of a blamer Brian Setzer, Haley Joel Osment get out and mingle. People will 5 Fruits by a 69 Dines Happy Birthday: Don't. let gravitate to your organized
' .. (!) 
things get to you. Settle down approach to life. You can help
partridge 42 Like "E pluribus 
and work on your future goals. bring order to the lives of those
10 Kind of palm unum· DOWN 
Look at yourself in the mirror you get to know better. 4 stars 14 Noose material 43 Ship of 1492 1 Symphony and discover who you really are LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Be 15 1973 #1 Rolling 44Dumb_ performer: Abbr. and how much you have to offer. careful not to divulge secret infor­
Stones hit (stupidheads) 2 Idiot 
It's time to believe in yourself mation at work. You can make and to raise your self-confidence. some positive changes to your liv­
16 ·_the night 45 Minimovies 3 Strike _ (what 
You can make the right choices if ing arrangements if you are will­before ... • 47 Items in a models do) you take your time and deter­ing to do the work yourself. 000 17 The answer is 22-Across 4 Takes five mine what you really want. Your SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
49 Elevator man 5 Dog's "dogs" 
numbers: 8, 13, 19, 31, 33, 38 Social activities should involve ARIES (March 21-April 19): large groups of people. You need
20 Twinkies maker 51 Storybook bear 6 Son of Seth 
Extravagance will be your down­to meet as many new acquain­21 White-haired 55 Went down the 7 Cabinet Dept. fall. Learn to say no to those who tances as possible. Your need to fellow, maybe easy way 8 Part of a roof are too demanding. Changes may experience new avenues will lead 22 Where a brood 59 With ice cream not be to your liking, but if you're you into unusual situations. 000
9 Hush-hush 
is raised patient things will turn out rea­SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21):
62 See 39-Across 
10 Phaser setting, sonably well. 000 You're probably not getting the23 Visible 64 Lee or Musial on "Star Trek" TAURUS (April 20-May 20): whole scoop. You'll have to dig24 Berth place 65" a 11 Impressed Your strong, dependable nature deep and ask a lot of questions if 27 Conversation-Symphony" will bring you popularity. New you want to get to the bottom of 
12 (I'm shocked! 
alist (1965 hit) romantic partners may stroll into things. Don't be afraid to be
Shocked!] 
your life. Be sure to attend cere­pushy if necessary. 000 13 Peak in Greek monies that will bring you into CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE myth contact with old friends. 3 stars Don't be too eager to pay for 18 Math groups 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): those you love. Find out if they 
Puzzle by S.._, Dorfman 
Help peers meet their deadlines, are worthy of your help. They 
A 5 S 19 Covered with 32 Punch tools 53 Lecterns 59 21-Across of and you'll have friends when may not be telling you every­I N T wool 
6-Down you're in need. Your versatility thing you need to know about
33 Ex-head of Iran 54 Fix to suit 
P ~.,..,+.,..+.,+,,,... E O 23 Homo sapiens, will enable you to do a vast the situation. Don't let yourself 
60 It's plucked 
--+..+-+-E....,R,-i tor example 34 The Green 55 Price number of jobs. Don't spread be taken for granted. 0000 25 Syllables Hornet's valet 56 Knowing about 61 Peepers yourself too thin. Pick projects AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): you enjoy. 000 Don't point the finger at your
meaning "I 35 Awaken 57 Leaving a small 63 Abbr. attar 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): mate. It takes two to tango, and
forgot the words" opening
37 Participated in a some military Social events will tum out better lately you've been somewhat 26 Sammy Davis choir 58 Dispatched names than you anticipated. Love is evi­neglectful. Question your own 
..,....,,,+,,,,...,,-i Jr.'s "Yes • motives before you start badger­
40 Completely dent. Your changing attitude will ..-+....+..+.e+-.-1 28 Lion, for MGM, attract a different kind of mate . ing your partner. 00
41 •_, you're it!" 
e.g. Answers to any three clues in this puzzle Work on building up your confi­PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 46 Attempt to dence. 00000 You need to travel to an exotic
are available by touch-tone phone: 
As I 29 Fort_ (gold 
mediate LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You'll place or at least be able to dream
1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
site) 
be in a predicament with family about it. Try to experience some­
48 Small fight 
A R N ..,..,....,,,......,.+-,,+:-,,t=t 30 Fictional Jane Annual subscriptions are available for the members ifyou've made promises thing unique. Visit your local B I E N T 31 They're caught 50Gem State best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 you can't keep. Changes will not museum. 00000 INR UENTE onbeaches 52 Love, in Livomo years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Birthday Baby: You are one complicated character. You appear to be so steady and stable most of the time, but unpredictable events will take you by surprise and toss you in all sorts of interesting and adven­turesome directions. You will become a master at the art of change. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialaslcom, astromate.com.) 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
© 2001 Unive.!5!l Press Syndicate 
----------------------~--------------------------------------------------­

NOTRE DAME ~ BASEBAl.l ~ Todayvs. Chicago.~ 5pm Wednesday vs. Detroit 5 pm 
First 50 Students -Free Hot Cocoa 
Thurs. vs. Georgetown (2) 12 pm 
Brown Bag It at the Eck!! 
NOTRE DAME SOFTBALL 
Wed. vs. Bowti17rg Green {2) 3:30 pm Thurs. vs. Loyola.{JL) (2) 4 pm ~ {I~ Fie(U g 


PORTS 
page 24 


WOMEN'S TENNIS 
By KATIE MCVOY Associate Spans Editor 
Today's tennis match doesn't have as much to do with serves and backhands as it does with mental focus and determination. Saint Mary's will be facing off against the Knights of Calvin in a battle that may foretell the results of the MIAA tournament. 
"I think this match is going to de.termine a lot," team captain Annie Knish said. 'This will tell us how well we're expected to do at Conference. Albion, Hope and Calvin are our toughest competitors at conference and we've already beaten Hope and Albion so we have one more to go." 
The Knights of Calvin represent the last major hurdle for the Belles' aim at finishing first in regular season play in the MIAA. After a solid victory over the Hope Flying Dutch, Saint Mary's will be mov­ing its focus to the Knights. 
Last season the Belles tied with the Knights for a second place finish behind the Flying Dutch. Since the has promised to be tough competition, but a recent loss to Albion may make the Knights less formidable opponents. Saint Mary's topped Albion 6-3 on April 4. 
"It gives us a little more confidence, who we've beaten," Knish said. "But we can't go into the match being too cocky. We have to go in there and play our best and make sure we're getting all the points we need." 
The starting Belles team had a day off on Sunday as the Saint Mary's B team had the opportunity to get some playing time. They will be back on the court today to face off against Calvin after time for men­tal preparation. 
"A day off is important not only to rest physically but to rest mentally as well," Knish said. "Having so many matches is tiring." 
Knish will face Calvin's Disselkoen, who hails from South Africa, in No. 1 sin­gles and in No. 1 doubles when Knish teams up with Natalie Cook. 
Disselkoen is one of four returning Calvin players 
start of the season, Calvin see TENNIS/page 20 

BOOKSTORE BASKTEBALL 
Brey's BOB finishes with 21-6 first-round victory 
coach!" to which Brey respond­play.' I've always seen this spec­
By BRIAN BURKE and 
ed, "You couldn't fit a clipboard tacle from afar, but it was fun to KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
under me!" be a part of it. And so we won. so Sports Writers 
After dishing off an assist, Brey we're still alive." exclaimed to the onlookers, "I Brey occasionally shouted out know my role!" words of wisdom during play,
He's not Allen Iverson, but 
Brey did finish 2-3 from the but mostly brought the ball up
Monday afternoon former 
field with a 17-foot jump shot and played atop the key. HeGeorge Washington player and 
current Notre Dame head bas­and a nice move driving in the plans to change his game plan lane. Overall, BOB was the next week. 
ketball coach Mike Brey showed quicker of the two teams and 'Tm just trying to be unselfish,
he can still run the floor. 
capitalized on several points in but really what I'm doing is, I'm
Brey's Bookstore Basketball 
transition. The team's bigger setting these guys up," Brey said. 
team, BOB, notched a 21-6 victo­
players dominated down low and "First game, you always pass a
ry over We Gotta Get Our Balls In There Somehow in first round owned the boards. After an 11-2 lot, and then they think "that halftime deficit, We Gotta Get was good because Coach gave
action at Stepan Courts. BOB 
Our Balls In There Somehow the ball up, but I'm shooting
relied on a balanced effort from 
eventually digressed into a crazy every time next week. so I've got Brey and Holy Cross students 
Rob Rait, James Thurston, Ryan display of wild shots and fancy 'em all set up.'' passes when it became apparent In other Bookstore action, the
Tucker and Joe Catanzarik for the win. While the students did the game was out of reach. No. 24 seed Ill Tempered Sea 
"I'm in as good of shape as Bass survived a first round scare
much of the shooting in the first 
some of these 22 year olds," said when it prevailed 21-19 over the
half. Brey played to the crowd in 
Brey. "These Holy Cross guys MBA Stars.
the role of distributor. 
called me up about a month ago Ill Tempered Sea Bass openedIn one such instance, a specta­
tor yelled, "Let's see the ups and I said "l definitely want to 
see BOOKSTORE/page 16 
Tennis 
Softball
.,,
vs. Calvin 
vs. Bowling Green 
SPORTS f!J· 
Women's Lacrosse
Today, 3 p.m. 
Wednesday, 3:30 p.m.
.. vs. Duke (New Haven, Conn.)
ATA 
Friday 4 p.m.
Baseball Track and Field
GIANCE • vs. Chicago State • at Missouri Meet •
Today, 4:05 p.m. Friday, 9 a.m. 


