

Something about quarterbacks 
Give students an extra hour 
Friday
They're the future ofNotre Dame's football 
The Observer editorial addresses the Campus 
program. The Observer catches up with Jared 
Life Council's recent recommendation to 
Clark, Carlyle Holiday and Matt LoVecchio. 
move parietals back an hour to 9 a.m. 
APRIL 27, 
Irish Insider 
Viewpoint . page 10 
2001 
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 130 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


Structural repairs close parts of Stadium 
University plans for new, modern engineering building 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER News Writer 
In an effort to have facilities of a caliber equal to the facul­ty, the University plans to construct a new multidisciplinary engineering learning and research facility to open in four years. 
"We have a very distinguished faculty. but our current facilities are far less distinguished," said Frank Incropera, Dean of Engineering. "Our facilities lag seriously behind those at other schools and this kind of space is imperative to retain and attract students and faculty." 
The building will contain a commons area on the first floor, a large learning c.enter, a nanotechnology laboratory and a materials synthesis laboratory, each occupying about one­third of the building's space, projected to be approximately the same size as the current law school. 
According Incropera, the new building will emphasize interactive learning using hands-on projects and testing. working in teams and working on projects that incorporate the curriculum ofmultiple engineering schools. 
In addition to serving a lab and learning facility, the goal is that the building's commons area will be inviting and facili­tate discussion. 
"We want to make it a building people want to be in and will stimulate interactions. We hope the facility will encour­age communication, community and collaboration,'' said Incropera. 
The learning center will occupy the rest of the space on the first floor. and at 16,000 sq. ft. will be almost four times larg­er than the current learning center 1hat opened this year in Cushing Hall to support the new Introduction to Engineering program for first year studen1S. 
"The learning center will continue to service the needs of first year students and with the new building. we would not be surprised if the number of first year students increases from 300 to 400," said Incropera. 
The new Learning Center will also be used for multidiscipli­nary activities that require collaboration between curriculum of more 1han one department in the college ofengineering. 
A large grant from the General Electric foundation will support the development of these multidisciplinary modules to be used in the new facility. Work on the design of the modules \\-ill begin now so that when the new building opens there will be programs ready to use the facility. 
see ENGINEERJNG/page 4 
\ 


Recycling program grows 
By MYRA McGRIFF 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
After a year of planning, the Saint Mary's Student Environmental Action Coalition [SEAC] has reached a pivotal stage in instituting a cam­pus wide recycling program. Currently working with the administration, SEAC hopes to see action taken soon. 
The idea for a recycling program spawned from inquiries during Activities Night in the fall of 1999. It was the first time SEAC set up a booth and the response they got was favorable. Students were interested in Saint Mary's recycling program, especially questioning why there was no one pro­gram for recycling plastic and glass on campus. Teresa Lorenz, president of SEAC and other members knew they had to respond. 
"So many of the people that signed up for the club would ask us if we could do something about glass and plastic recycling," said Lorenz. 
see RECYCLING/page 4 
EVELYN GONZALES/The Observer Saint Mary's students collect plastic and glass on campus. After a year of planning, the Saint Mary's Student Environmental Action Coalition [SEACJ has reached a pivotal stage In instituting a campus­wide recycling program. Students were interested in Saint Mary's recycling program, especially ques­tioning why there was no program for recycling plastic and glass on campus. 

By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER 
News Writer 
The upper bowl and concourse of the Notre Dame Stadiwn will be off-limits to spectators at Saturday's Blue Gold Game as a result of repairs to the stadium the University begun in December. 
The repairs are addressing structural problems that appeared after the expansion and renova­tion of the stadium in 1997, including cracked concrete and failed hand rails and joints. The University is paying for the repairs at the same time they are pursu­ing litigation against Ellerbe Becket, Inc, the stadium project's architect and engineer, and Casteel Construction Corporation, the general contractor of the pro­ject. The outcome of this litigation will determine who ultimately pays for the repairs. 
According to Director of Public Relations Dennis Moore, construc­tion equipment will remain on site Saturday so repairs can resume on Monday, but construction debris has been cleaned up. 
"We're going to make sure the equipment doesn't impede fans going in and out of the stadium. The area will be cleaned up and any dust will be eliminated," Moore said. 
The University first became aware of design flaws during the addition's inaugural game Sept. 6, 1997 against Georgia Tech, when the stadium flooded with water and sewage before the start of the game. The suit alleges Ellerbe Beckett failed to design an ade­quate water supply system for the stadium and did not notify the University that the sewage line in place needed repairs or upgrades. The suit claims the company erred in estimating the expected volume of toilets flushing at peak times before. during and after the game . The suit also claims that Castell did not test the water and sewage systems before the first game to insure they worked properly. 
Fans should not become accus­tomed to seeing the stadium under construction because this stage of work will be completed during the swnmer and construc­tion equipment and supplies· will be removed before the first game of the year on Sept. 22. 
page2 The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, April 26, 2001 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Covering the CLC 
Seth Whetzel had a few things right about pari­
etals. 
Pushing for an extension to the opposite-sex vis­
iting hours, Whetzel, a Campus Life Cowicil mem­
ber and sophomore St. Edward's Hall resident, 
made sense in action and in 
speech at the CLC meeting 
Monday. 
'This is simply a request for 
members of the opposite sex 
to have more hours each day 
to interact with each other in 
the privacy of their own 
rooms," Whetzel told the 
council composed of Notre 
Dame faculty, staff and stu­
dents. Right on, I say. 
Of course, he didn't get 
everything he wanted on 
Monday. Whetzel watched, 
pleased, I'm sure, as the 
group voted 13-3 to push 
parietals back an hour to 9 
a.m. every day. But his pleas for a 60-minute extension to the hours through the week fell on 1O seemingly deaf ears, as Whetzel and each student CLC member saw that move shot down 10-6 -a vote short of the majority needed for passage. 
Depending on whom you looked at following the rejected resolution, the scene -members repre­senting all facets of University life seated, hands clasped or, in some cases propping up heads­was either oddly dL<,turbing or strikingly familiar. 
On the one hand were students visibly deflated by the failed measure. Moving morning parietals to 9 a.m. was a no-brainer, but garnering support for the late-night parietals change was the chal­lenge. It failed. They failed. 
And as far as they were concerned, they failed the student body. In March, a senate survey polled undergraduates' opinions on changing the long­standing hours. According to the results ofsurvey, 2,429 of 3,038 respondents said they were in favor ofextending parietals past midnight. That's about 80 percent ofsurveyed students who think an extension would be beneficial. 
"When 80 percent ofstudents make it perfectly clear that the extension of parietals is in their best interest, I'd like to give them the benefit of the doubt," Whetzel said Monday. He was right. But he was also speaking to a group ofUniversity staff members who were sitting pretty happy with themselves after their defeat of a proposal that, according to one Notre Dame oflicial threatened "a healthy lifestyle" in residence halls. 
It's a low blow to \\Tite off as unhealthy some­thing of as much importance to students and on­campus gender relations as parietals, but Whetzel -and probably most students-saw that com­ing. Even before a vote moved to the floor, Whetzel got another point right: "There is a per­vading sense that administrators don't allow stu­dents to think for themselves. If this resolution gets shot down, don't pat me on the head, say I did a good job but tell me that daddy knows best," he told the body. 
It screamed boldness. I'm notjust talking about Whetzel's comments directed at Bill Kirk. the University's vice president for student affairs. 
What I'm getting at is the move to bring the parietals votes before the CLC in the first place. The issue certainly found a home in the Student Senate; the proposals came after months ofsur­veying students and talking with administrators. 
But for Whetzel and other student CLC members to introduce and advocate the measures into a body far less welcoming than the senate, was an act of courage and true student leadership. That makes the results of their efforts -even ifexpect­ed -no less a service to the student body. 
And at a time when many criticize student gov­ernment representatives' initiatives as insignifi­cant and unneeded, this should serve as an exam­ple of what's right with the Student Union and with fighting the good fight. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Jason McFarley 
News Editor 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Maribel Morey Amanda Greco Scon Brodfuehrer 
Graphics 
Andrew Thagard 
Katy Hall 
Sports 
Production 
Noah Amstadter Andrew Soukup 
Viewpoint 
Lab Tech 
Pat Kelly 
Angela Campos 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is publiihcJ Monday through Friday except during ex.am and vacation periods. The Obsi:rvt::r is a member of rhe Aswe1a1cd Press. All rrproduction riglm are reserved. 

THIS WEEK IN ND/SMC HISTORY 
Record store proposal approved Domino's comes back to campus Monday, April 23, 1979 Thursday, April 22, 1993 
Director of Student Activities John Reid approved a 
Domino's Pizza was banned from delivering their products proposal to establish a Student Union Record Store. 
to the University for almost a month after failing to abide The approval marked the end of nearly a year of 
by regulations concerning posting their signs on campus. efforts on the part of Bill Roche, Student Body presi­
The Domino's Pizza corporation illegaly posted signs with­dent, and the Student Union to make albums available 
out app..:oval from Student Activities. As a result, the to students at low costs in a student-operated record University prohibited Domino's from delivering pizzas to outlet. any University owned buildings. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Fire destroys Rotunda, office buildings 
FARMVILLE, VA 

According to fire department offi­
C NC:iWC)( D
A huge fire destroyed Longwood 
cials. the cause of the fire remains College's historic Rotunda on Tuesday < () I. (. 
unknown. Initial speculation centered and damaged additional buildings in -------------­on the possibility that the fire was the school's Ruffner Hall complex. our room last night because they had related to the renovation efforts. 
No injuries or fatalities were report­nowhere to go." More than 150 firefighters fought ed in the incident. The residence halls suffered heat "flames reaching 20 feet in the air," 
East and West Ruffner Halls, used and smoke damage and possibly some said Walter English. a Farmville fire­for classrooms and offices, were com­water and fire damage as well, fighter and sophomore student at pletely gutted in the blaze, and Longwood spokeswoman Judy Longwood. "The lire was extremely Grainger Hall suffered severe damage McReynolds said. "The important thing large ... the biggest I've ever seen." to its roof and top floor. is that no students were injured." Despite the extensive damage to 
About 400 students also were evacu­All classes and final exams at classrooms, offices and residence ated from the Tabb, South Tabb, Longwood are canceled for the rest of halls, classes over the summer and French and South Ruffner residence the semester, and students have been next semester will continue as sched­halls, which are part of the same com­asked to leave campus by noon uled, McReynolds said. plex of buildings destroyed by the Saturday. "There are things that are going to blaze. The historical Ruffner complex, dat­have to be adjusted, but there is no 
"Students still can't go back into ing hack to the 19th century. had been strategic plan at this point," she said. their rooms," freshman Michelle undergoing a major $12 million reno­The college "is committed to rebuild­Kravitz said. "People were sleeping in vation for the past year. ing Ruffner." 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather~forecast for da time conditions and hi te ratures 

The AccuWeather«> forecast for noon, Friday, April 27. 40s SOS 70a Lines separate high temperature zones for the day 
60s &Os 40s 
® 
FRONTS, 
.......... ---..........


C 2001 Acc:uWNlhar, tnc. cm fJ WA.HM .'-,'1ATIQNARY 
®-.<O D D D D D D 
.-..gh Low ShOwara Rain l •¦torma Ffurf'tff Snow Ice Sunny Pf. Cloud-, Cloudy 
Vt4~1ffPru• 

Allanta 80 58 Las Veijas 91 65 Portland 60 36 Baltimore 73 48 Memphis 85 62 Sacramento 76 50 Boston 62 43 M~waukee 54 37 St. Loui• 78 57
~-~~8 Q,Q (f ~ u 
Chicago 60 40 New York 69 48 Tampa 83 63
Showers J:.storms Rain Rurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt Cloody Cloudy 
Houston 82 62 Philaaelph1a 72 47 Washington. DC 74 50
Via As.socialttd Presa Graphial.Net 
UNIVERSITY OF KENTUCKY 
Health services: abortion prohibited 
LEXINGTON. Ky. 
University of Kentucky Health Services can't provide certain procedures -abortion happens to be one of them, as well as the distribution of RU-486, a drug that blocks the action of the hormone necessary to sustain a pregnancy, thus terminating the pregnancy. And in the event a patient needs medical advice con­cerning an issue like abortion, University Health Services will help the student find the type of medical attention needed. "If we don't offer the service, we will help patients find the service they need -that's our job," said Dr. Spencer Turner, director of University Health Services. Even though Turner said health ser­vices helps patients as much as possible, he said it couldn't refer the student to a specific place -health officials simply give the patient a list of referrals for various options. The statute implies that no publicly owned hospital or health care facility can perform or permit the performance of abortions. except to save the life of the pregnant woman. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
TEXAS A&M UNIVERSITY 
Students to play role in bonfire 
AUSTIN. Texas 

Aggies will have a larger role in the construction of the 2002 Bonfire than many or them had feared follow­ing the 1999 disaster. Members of the Bonfire 2002 Steering Committee, a group formed to overseP the 2002 Bonfire, assured students in Tuesday and Wednesday meetings that they would play a significant role in the design selection and construction processes. The bonfire was postponed until at least 2002 after 12 students eventually died and 27 others were injured when the 59-foot high structure collapsed Nov. 18, 1999. Schuyler Houser, Texas A&M University student body president, said students were at lirst worried that they might not have a role in the bonlire's construc­tion. "There was initially a lot of concern because many of the students misunderstood and thought they weren't going to be able to help construct the bonlire at all," she said. "We just have to come up with a structure that's safe and that's designed by profession­als." 
Friday, April 27, 2001 page 3
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Senate hears Malloy's concerns 
actually, a lot if you were one of

Special to lhe Ob~rver 
us from Notre Dame -but both eventually settled through theIn testimony to a U.S. Senate net, and Ruth and her team­Commerce Committee hearing 

mates held that slim lead lo

Thursday on the Student Athlete become the national champions. 
Protection Act. Father Edward "The point is that never in the
Malloy, president of the 
course of those dramatic fewUniversity of Notre Dame, 

seconds was there any reasonvoiced strong support for the for anyone to think that Ruthlegislation, saying "it is a crucial 

Riley cared about anything

step" in the battle against gam­other than winning that basket­bling on college, high school and ball game. 
Olympic athletic evenl'i. 
"Her storyThe act. which 

is whatwas originally 

introduced last "We must be able to take those of us who support 
year, specifically this step, this modest and 
the Student

closes a loophole 
moderate-but vital -Athlete

in the 1992 
step." Protection

Professional and Act are try­Am~tcur Sports 
ing to pre­Protection Act 

Edward Malloy 
serve. "Atthat exempted 

University president the same

Nevada. 
Delaware, Oregon and Montana from oper­ating sports betting systems. 
Reps. Tim lloemer. D-Ind., whose 3rd District includes Notre Dame, and Lindsey Graham, Il.-S.C.. are the princi­pal sponsors of the !louse ver­sion of the bill. 
Father Malloy's testimony was submitted in written form. The text follows: 
"Just more than three weeks ago, a very talented Notre Dame student-athlete. Ruth Riley, stood at the free throw line in an arena in St. Louis with the score tied, 5.8 seconds on the clock. a full house and a national televi­sion audience watching, and the NCAA women's basketball national championship in the balance. Ruth -the player of the year in women's collegiate basketball. the student-athlete of the year, and -the recipient of numerous other awards for her accomplishments as an athlete and as a student -had two free throws coming. Both shots rat­tled around the rim a bit ­time, howev­
er, there's a fact that's well known at the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCM) and to most of the nation's college and uni­versity prcsidenl,;, athletic direc­tors, and coaches: There were more point-shaving and game­fixing schemes involving college and university athletic teams during the 1990s than in all pre­vious decades combined. One of those schemes involved a former Notre Dame student-athlete. He's now putting his life and reputation back together, and among the ways he's doing that is by telling those of us in colle­giate athletics -administrators, coaches and students -how it happened to him, what the pres­sures and the attractions were, how a good person came to commit criminal acts. 
"His story is what those of us who support the Student Athlete Protection Act are trying to pre­vent. 
"Is it any doubt that the NCAA, college and university presi­dents, athletics officials and coaches stand united in support of this legislation? Gambling is the great cloud that throws its shadow over the games our stu­dents play. How many more scandals will it take before a Ruth Riley can't go to the free throw line in such a situation without spectators wondering about the legitimacy of what's about to unfold? llow long will it be before a fan, seeing an excel­lent free throw shooter miss in the final seconds when his or her team has a comfortable lead, wonders if that miss was about lack of concentration or the point spread'? Is it any won­der that in Nevada. which is the subject of Lhis legislation, state law prohibits gambling on Nevada schools, even while the federal loophole that this legisla­tion would close permits legal gambling on Notre Dame's and other institutions' athletic events. "I, and all of' us who sup­port this legislation. know that its passage isn't the end of our battle with gambling. Far from it. But it is a crucial step, because it enshrines in federal law the principle that the athlet­ic victories and defeats of ama­

teur athletes -student-athletes -often, teen-aged athletes ­should not be a legal source of 
revenue for the professional gambling industry. 
"We must be able to take this step, this modest and moderate -but vital -step. All of those people and groups who are most intimately involved with the well being of student-athletes favor passage of this legislation; only those whose sole interest is money oppose it. 
"Please give us this victory for the well being of our student­athletes and help us to preserve and protect the integrity of the games they play. 
"Thank you." 
ST. MICHAEL:S 

LAUl 
RY 
& DRYCLEANING 
SUMMER STORAGE BEGINS APRIL 16, 2001 
There's no need to take your winter clothes and school linens home! 
*Students may request that the storage fee be deducted from their laundry contract, or charged to their student account. You do not need cash! *You DO NOT need a laundry contract to participate. *All garments and linens must be laundered or drycleaned at over.the-counter prices. 
*Saint Michael's cannot process leather or suede. *A $7.00 storage fee will be added to your invoice (per order/does not include cleaning fee). *All items must be picked up no later than September 7,2001. Saint Michael's Student Laundry Distribution Center is located at Holy Cross Dr. and Sorin Ct. Hours: 8:00 a.m. -4:30 p.m. Monday -Friday 
E~tended Hours May 1 0 & 11: 8:00 a.m. -6:00 p.m. 
for more information call 631 .7565 or visit our new web site at 
www.nrllaundry.com 

Judge rules 'Irish' 
offensive ethnic slur 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
News Writer 
Although 20,000 fans will scream "IRISH" this Saturday at the Blue-Gold Game, they can­not print "IRISH" on their license plates in Vermont, a judge has mlcd. 
Superior Judge Matthew Katz upheld a decision by the Vermont Department of Motor Vehicles to prevent Carol Ann Martin from purchasing a vanity plate with "IRISH" printed on it. Katz ruled "IRISH" could be wnsidered offensive or confus­ing to the public, according to court documents. 
"Even in the context of IRISH -evocative as it may be of lep­rechauns, shamrocks and Galway Bay -.the need to avoid viewpoint discrimination can be quickly apparent," Katz wrote in his decision. "If IRlSH is permit­ted, because most Vermonters would not find it offensive, is NOIRISH? Although cinema buffs might consider this latter example intriguing, more folks would probably fmd it evocative of 'No Irish Need Apply,' an employment notice actually and reasonably offensive to many." 
Martin found flaws with the judge's logic. 
"This decision, I don't see the common sense in it," she told the Barre Montpelier Time­Argus. "I didn't apply for NOIRISH. If someone applied for I-T, would they deny it because someone else might apply for S­H-1-T'!" 
Peter McQuillan, a prol'essor of Irish studies at Notre Dame. believes Irish is not offensive, 
"[The ruling] sounds like non­sense to me -that's my gut reaction," he said. 
Denny Moore, director of pub­lic relations. agreed. 
"That's outrageous," he said. "That's like saying you can't use Jewish or Polish because some­one might use No Jewish or No Polish." 
Although Notre Dame uses a fom1er British stereotype of the Irish as its mascot. Moore said it rarely receives complaints ­usually one or less a year, When Notre Dame does receive a com­plaint, Moore explains that the Irish-Americans who made up most of the students, adrninis­trators and faculty of the University adopted the symbol themselves. 
"It is a British stereotype turned into an Irish-American icon," Moore said. 
The Notre Dame Bookstore sells "quite a few" items with "Irish" written on it, according to Jim O'Connor, director of the Bookstore. He has yet to receive any complaints about items with "Irish" printed on them. 
"Irish" is also used several times on the Embassy of Ireland in Washington DC's Web site. 
University honors service to youth 
Special to lhe Observer 
Elizabeth Bird, a 1991 graduate of the University of Notre Dame, will receive the 2001 William D. Reynolds Award from the Notre Dame Alumni Association during halftime ceremonies of the Blue-Gold football game April 28 at Notre Dame Stadium. 
The Reynolds Award is given annually to a Notre Dame 
graduate for distinguished servite to young people. 
Bird, originally from Tahlequah, Okla., is an advocate for youth and elder issues in the Cherokee Nation Tribal Council. She currently works as a program manager for American Indian Development Associates in Albuquerque, N.M., managing the development of juvenile justice training and technical assistance project plans. 
As second chief of the Cherokees of New Mexico, Bird has worked to call for a review of the Cherokee Nation children's code and of the juvenile justice system within the nation. Bird served from 1991-94 as the national service-learning coordinator for the National Indian Youth Leadership Development Project in Gallup. N.M., where she provided training for teachers and administrators of schools that par­ticipated in a pilot project which incorporated traditional cultural teachings with service-learning. She also worked from 1994-98 as a Johnson O'Malley Program field specialist for the Cherokee Nation in Tahlequah, managing some 25 school and community programs designed to meet the edu­cational needs of Native American students attending public schools. 
After earning her bachelor's degree in American studies from Notre Dame, Bird went on to earn a second bachelor's degree in 1998 from Oklahoma Baptist University. She serves as a mentor for Native American students considering higher education, and currently provides support for three students now attending Notre Dame. 
Recycle The Obse~Vet,A. 


Friday, April 27, 2001
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Recycling 
continued from page 1 
In the Beginning 
In response to the student body call for action, SEAC sent out a petition in April 2000. It wanted to determine student and faculty interest in adding plastic and glass to Saint Mary's aluminum and paper recycling. The petition returned ""ith more than 400 sig­natures in favor of adding plastic and glass to the recycling pro­gram. From the overwhelming response, the club knew it had the backing to propose changes to the existing program. 
To institute a full-fledged recy­cling program, SEAC drafted a proposal to present to the Board of Governance (BOG) on Oct. 21. The SEAC proposal outlined the reasons why the college needed a new recycling program. One rea­son rnstcd on the existence of the 1999/l000 BOG endorsed Student Environmental Policy and a change in vending machines. 
"We saw the need when the 

campus started replacing the alu­minum dispensing pop machines with plastic dispensing machines," said Lorenz. 
The Proposal 

Along with reasons to activate a recycling program. SEAC also outlined the initiatives needed to produce such a program. Initiatives included three main actions: contract an off-campus recycling pick-up service. provide clearly labeled and accessible bins for recycling in all buildings and educate students on how to properly dispose of recyclables. 
The last point requested coop­eration and commitment from dining hall services, to participate in the effort of a campus wide recycling program. SEAC spent its time coming up with a concise proposal that would get the back­ing of both student body and administration. 
"We heard a lot about propos­als for glass and plastic recycling being rejected in the past so we had to put a lot of time and effort into coming up with a proposal and rallying support from stu­dents and faculty," said Lorenz. 
The group's work paid off when it got the needed approval from the Academic Council to proceed with its proposal into committee form. Holding its first meeting March 23. SEAC not only named a program coordinator for the committee, Jerry De Damper, but also proposed future steps the committee should take. 
With the formation of a com­mittee, SEAC definitely sees the potential to reform the existing recycling program. As explained by Marilyn Rajski, director of building and services, the weekly aluminum recycling is handled by building service workers, making the task time consuming. Especially the time staff spend cleaning out each of the cans before recycling. 
''The 55 containers are emptied and one of our floaters picks up all the bags from every building and takes the cans to South Bend's recycling center," said Rajsld. 
And even though the campus does not officially recycle plastics and glass, SEAC has been doing it on its own. The members have been emptying. cleaning and recycling any plastic and glass containers that have deposited around the dorms. The hope is that in establishing the four-point plan SEAC, along with the recy­cling committee, can make the process of recycling a lot more efficient. 
The only kink in SEAC's pro­posal for a recycling program may lie in the numbers crunched by Saint Mary's financial depart­ment. As ii stands, building ser­vices pours in at least five hours a week per person to carry out the aluminum-recycling project. 
However, as Rajski pointed out in the recycling committee's min­utes. most of the revenue is lost in the labor. They receive $2,500 in revenue a year from recycling the cans but end up dumping at least that much back into paying a Saint Mary's worker to clean and transport the cans. 
Even though the aluminum recycling may actually result in a loss of money for the campus, SEAC is keeping hope alive. Awaiting a rough estimate on costs versus benefits, members of SEAC cross their fingers hoping Keith Dennis. vice president of finance, will flag them on to the next cycle of'actions. 
The Next Step 
Dennis said the budget for the next fiscal year has already been completed and SEAC's proposal for the recycling program was not figured in. He said that if the pro­ject costs arc insignificant, the program may start next fall. But if the costs arc large, the program will have to wait for the~ next bud­get cycle, meaning there may or may not be enough money to get the program started for fall 2001. 
"We have already completed the budget cycle for next year," said Dennis. Dennis did however assure that the College would start some reform next year that would involve little to no cost. This reform would ease the indi­vidual efforts SEAC has been doing to recycle plastics and glass by combining the SEAC recycling job with that of college resources. 
Regardless of the budget deci­sion, SEAC sees recycling more than about dollar figures and rev­enue amounlr.;. They started this project in response to student concerns and their goal has always been simple: effective recycling with campus aware-
Engineering 
continued from page l 
When the current learning center in Cushing Ifall is vacated, it is earmarked for use by the Computer Science and Engineering Department, and most likely will be used for a Virtual Reality Laboratory. 

"The space would be ideal for a major vir­tual reality facility available to anyone on\ campus doing research," Incropera said. The laboratories to be contained on the 
STUDENT WANTED FOR HELP WITH ND WEBSITE. 
INFO@ NDNATION.COM 
,-----------,·
49¢g~~~s
single-sided on 8.5" x 11" 28 lb. paper. You'll be amazed by the quality. 
COPY SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center 
On the Campus ol the Universit~ ol Notre Dame 
Call 631-COPY 
FREE Pick-Up & Delivery 
See store for details. Coupon required. Hurry -expires 5/4/01. 
\.N:v:d.:ii:::o:e:.:f:::d:o:._n/ 

upper floors of the building require special equipment not available in Cushing and Fitzpatrick, the current Engineering halls. 
"When Fitzpatrick was built 30 years ago, there was little understanding of the needs of certain research today," Incropera said. 
Nanotechnology research involves work­ing with electronics much smaller than the size of a human hair and therefore requires ultra-clean space. The nanotechnology lab­oratory will contain 7,000-sq. ft. of Class 100 space for this purpose. Incropera said the equipment to achieve this extremely high standard of air quality is one of the 
-Renovated, spacious one and two 
bedroom apartments,  some  with lofts.  
-Includes membership in the  new  
Castle Point Racquet Club  
and Fitness Center.  

major costs of the new building, but "you can't afford to have conl.aminants io muck up the works." 
The materials research laboratory will require installing chemical hoods. a device designed to prevent toxic fumes from enter­ing the building's airspace, and other sophisticated equipment. 
"We reached a point in Fitzpatrick where we can't install another fume hood. We were sucking too much air out of the build­ing and can't get more in," Incropera said. 
The location of the building has not yet been decided, but the department hopes it 
Castle Point Select Units Available for Next Semester 
,:•within Minutes of Campus':• 
will be built in close proximity to the current 
buildings so it is easy to access. 
"lt is very important that the building be 
situated in close proximity to Fitzpatrick and 
Cushing so it is easy for professors to walk 
from their office to the Learning Center and 
commons area," lncropera said. 
The building will be funded by a combina­
tion of federal government funding, which is 
earmarked for the research facilities, and 
donations solicited by the development 
office from alumni and friends with an 
interest in the future of engineering at Notre Tiame. 
#9 NOTRE DAME SOFTBALL 
Sat. April 28 11 am SUN. APRIL 29 11 AM 
Doubleheader 9 Doubleheader vs. 

Mpvidlill!
vs. luslllC# 1Vair Jimmy Buffet Bash
Come see the frisbee 

Best troplc'a, dottres win prizes!
dogs in action!! 

ONE lucky fan will win airline tickets on 
courtesy of t4j(
First 150 kids receive t1.'.:: U~ AIRWAYS 
'"6'"

tJ, frisbees 9 1st 200 fans rec.eive a Notre Dame softball t-shirt 
Last Home Games Men's lacrosse 
Sat. April 28 @ xpm vs. Harvard 
Women's lacrosse 
Sun. April 29 @ xpm vs. Rut ers 
iW'II ¦¦¦¦Ill 
lue-Gold Football Game Saturday 1:30 pm 

ATION 
Friday, April 27, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Fighting in Chechnya leaves 17 dead: Fighting in Chechnya over the past 24 hours has left at lea.st 17 Russian soldiers dead and 28 wounded, an official said Thursday, and the rebel Chechen leader warned his fighters planned more large-scale attacks. "Russia has found itself in a deadlock," rebel Chechen President Asian Maskhadov said in videotaped remarks seen in Grozny. 
Israel leader receives award: 
Yitzhak Shamir, a former prime minister who once fonded ofT U.S. efforts to convince Israel to compromise with the Palestinians. on Thursday received his nation's highest award. In a cere­mony marking the close of independence day festivities. the taciturn former underground fighter received the Israel Prize for his life's work. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
NASA postpones robot-arm opera­tions: For the second day in a row, astro­nauts aboard the linked space shuttle Endeavour and international space station had to put off critical robot-arm operations Thursday because of computer problems. The trouble prompted NASA to extend the shuttle's space station visit by two days. 
California still risks blackouts: 
Federally ordered caps on wholesale electricity prices do not guarantee California will escape blackouts this summer, experts say. In fact. analysts and state officials said Thursday, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission's sug­gestion the state join a regional transmission organization could be "a poison pill" attached to the price-cap order. Michael Shames, execu­tive director of the Utility Consumers' Action Network, said until details of the order are dis­closed, there's no way to predict if commission­ers have lessened the threat of blackouts. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Woman claims demons forced her to start fire: A Michigan City woman says she was driven by demons to start a fire in the Michigan City police station that caused $250,000 damage, police say. Police say the cause of the fire early Sunday has not been offi­cially determined. But Carolyn Tinsley, 47, told police she started the fire because "I wanted to burn. The devil, Satan and Lucifer made me do it." Tinsley was arrested shortly after midnight Sunday on criminal mischief and trespassing charges related to a disturbance at a former boyfriend's home. 
Market Watch April 26 

Dow 10,692.35 +67.15 
Composite Volume:

]~ s;r;: 
NIA 
Al'vIEX: 938.13 +14.56 NASDAQ; 2,034.88 -24.92 NYSE: 629.36 +5.86 S&P 500: 1,234.52 +5.Tl 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -3.31 -0 . .52 15. 21 NASDAQ 100 INDX (QQQ) -2.55 -1.15 43.95 MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) -0.80 -0.56 69.13 WORLDCOM INC (WCOM) +1.81 +0.35 19.74 INTEL CORP (INTC) -1.34 -0.39 28.64 
UKRAINE 


Associated Press ~ 
KIEV 

Ukraine plunged into political disarray Thursday as the commu­nist-dominated parlia­ment ousted the govern­ment of Prime Minister Viktor Yushchenko, the nation's most popular politician. 
The dismissal of the most economically reform-minded govern­ment in Ukraine's short post-Soviet history was seen by analysts as a threat to further reforms and ·a bad signal for potential foreign investors. 
"Democracy in Ukraine has suffered a serious defeat." Yushchenko said after lawmakers voted 263-69 to approve a Communist-sponsored resolution accusing the government of failing to improve the economy and leading Ukraine to ruin. 
About 10,000 protesters took to the streets of Kiev to denounce the no-confi­dence vote and demand the dismissal of President Leonid Kuchma, whom they accused of tacitly sponsoring the drive against Yushchenko and his Cabinet. 
Pro-government legisla­tors chanted "Yush­chenko! Yushchenko!" while others called for Kuchma to be thrown out of office. 
Thousands of protesters have taken to the streets in recent months, demanding Kuchma resign over a scandal involving the death of critical journalist Heorhiy Gongadze. 
Thousands of Yushchenko supporters marched from parliament to Kuchma's headquar­ters later in the day, shouting "Down with Kuchma!" 
The Constitution requires the prime minis­ter to hand his resigna­
tion to the president, and Kuchma is unlikely to reject it. 
The Cabinet will then become a caretaker gov­ernment for a maximum of 60 days. 
"As the head of state, I cannot like this decision. But what has happened is done," Kuchma said, visit­ing the Chernobyl region on the 15th anniversary of the nuclear disaster. 
But Yushchenko back­ers and opposition parties seeking Kuchma's ouster suspect the president was only too glad to be rid of the popular premier. whom he allegedly saw as a potential rival. 
SUDAN 

Ethiopian plane hijacked to Sudan 
Associated Press 
KHARTOUM 

Nine university students armed with hand grenades and pistols seized an Ethiopian plane carrying at least 50 passengers and diverted it to Khartoum on Thursday, state-run Sudan television reported. Hours later, the attackers released 11 women and children. 
Government negotiators managed to persuade the hijackers to free six women and five children, said Ghazi Salah el-Din Atabani, Sudan's minis­ter of information. 
Atabani told reporters that the hijackers were seeking political asy­lum, but did did not elaborate. 
The television report said the hijackers, students at Ethiopia's Addis Ababa University, demanded meetings with U.S. and British diplo­mats. But it wasn't immediately known if that was possible. 
The United States is represented in Sudan by charge d'affaires Glenn Warren. but it was not clear if he was in the country. And a British diplomat, speaking on condition of anonymity, said that he wasn't aware of any call for involvement by his country. 
Sudan's Foreign Minister Mustafa Osman Ismail told Qatar's Al-Jazeera satellite television that the hijackers landed in Khartoum because they were running out of fuel, adding he did not know what their intended destination was. 
Ismail said the situation on board was "extremely bad." 
The Antonov 12 aircraft originated in the Ethiopian capital, Addis Ababa, and was heading to northern Ethiopia when the hijackers seized the plane, the TV report said. It land­ed at Khartoum airport at 6:20 p.m., it said. 
A crew member who managed to escape out the back of the plane said the hijackers were armed with hand grenades and pistols, the TV report said. 
--------. -----­
page6 The Obs~rver . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 27, 2001 
Students fight eating disorders 
By ALYSON TOMME News Writer 
Anna had a dream. It was a dream of a haven for women. a place of support and under­standing for eating disorders. Though Anna was forced to leave the University and return home because of her illness, her vision for a faith-based meeting of women finally became a real­ity this semester because of other dedicated students. 
With the help of Chandra Johnson, assistant to the presi­dent, A Life Uncommon, which draws its name from a Jewel song of the same title, was formed by sophomores Sarah Shacklett and Allie Swiacki, and juniors Darcy McLaughlin and Amy Wodoslawsky to combat a common campus problem: eat­ing disorders. 
This organization of women. co-sponsored by Campus Ministry and the Counseling Center. recognizes eating disor­ders as an illness of the soul, not simply a problem with food. It confidentially gathers women struggling with a disorder or an obsession with food, friends of those with a problem and any woman who express a desire to learn and understand this wide-. spread dilemma. 
"We didn't want it to be from a clinical standpoint at all ­every women can benefit from attending," said Shacklett. 
After much discussion and planning with the adminbtra­ti()n last semester, A Life Uncommon conducted its first meeiing on March 28 and has since held four additional meet­ings. The initial meeting was successful with approximately 80 students participating. Since then, the number attending has ranged from 40 to 75 students, 
A typical meeting opens with a prayer by Johnson and a speaker to talk about the week's theme. Past themes have included pre-anorexic ten­dencies, isolation versus con­nection and relating to God. The goal is to have each woman discover a comfort zone to share experiences and increase understanding in all aspects of eating disorders. 
"It creates an environment where girls can help each other. By talking about it. women real­ize everyone is doing unhealthy things," said Swiacki. 
Subsequently, the women break into small groups for a more intimate discussion. A group leader uses three focus questions to facilitate the dis­cussion, but it will often head in whatever direction the women decide to take it. 
"It's girls talking and finding healing in each other," said Shacklett. 
Everyone is also given a piece of paper to write down anything they wish at the end of the meeting and these prayers, hopes, and struggles arc all taken to the Grotto. To con­clude, the meetings always end with a prayer and a song. 
Though this past Wednesday marked the year's last meeting, plans for next school year are already in motion. As of' now, A Life Uncommon does not have oflicial club status. but they are 

_currently going through the progress to become a club. The women also hope to gain recog­nition and increase member­ship by speaking at Freshmen Orientation and offering a retreat. 
The meetings will continue every week next year. and organizers plan to incorporate males into some meetings as well. 
"It's important for guys to be more informed," said McLaughlin. 
As students aimed at fighting eating disorders, improving personal growth and accep­tance, A Life Uncommon is a unique resource at Notre Dame. 
"The fact that we have it is amazing," said McLaughlin. "It's an opportunity for girls to get together. It's a place where people can come and get sup­port." 

Dutile receives service award from alumni 
Special to the Ob,ervcr 
Fernand N. "Tex" [)utile, pro­fessor of law at Notre Dame and chair of the University's Faculty Board on Athletics, will receive the 2001 James E. Armstrong Award from the Notre Dame Alumni Association at a dinner reception on campus Friday. 
Established in 1978, the Armstrong Award recognizes outstanding service to the University by an employee. 
A 1965 Notre Dame Law School graduate and member of the faculty since 1971, Dutile also serves as Notre Dame's fac­ulty athletics representative to the National Collegiate Athletic Association. 
Dutile has served for more than 25 years on Notre Dame's Academic Council, including 10 years on its executive commit­tee, and has been ,a member of the Provost's Advisory Committee and the search com­mittees for the University's two most recent provosts. I-ie also served as acting dean of the Law School from 1991-93. while then-dAan David Link served as chancellor of the University of Notre Dame-Australia. 
Dutile codirected Notre Dame's London Programme in 1991, and taught from 1994-96 in that program. He also has served as facultv editor of the Journal of C:ollege and University Law, the hallmark publication of the National Association of' College and University Attorneys. He has been a member of the journal's editorial board since 1986 and was honored in 1994 as a life­time fellow of the association. 
A graduate of' Assumption College in Massachusetts, Dutile was admitted in 1965 to the Maine Bar and practiced law in the Honors Program of the U.S. Department of Justice, then taught law at the Catholic University of America before returning to Notre Dame. lie also has served as a senior visit­ing fellow at the University of Aberdeen in Scotland and schol­ar-in-residence at the University of Queensland in Australia, 
NEWS BRIEFS 

Weekend features several music events: Tonight's 8 pm performance of the Collegium Musicum at Moreau Seminary Chapel has free admission. On Sunday, the Concert Band and the Glee Club will be at the Morris Performing Arts Center at 4 pm. Admission is $1-5. 
Please, recycle the Observer. 

THE NOTRE DAME CLUBS OF BOSTON AND WORCESTER CONGRATULATE THE CLASS OF 2001. 
If you're coming to the Boston area, send an e-mail to ndboston@yahoo.com to find out about upcoming events and plan on joining us for our annual "Schmooze Cruise" on Boston Harbor on June 21st. 
WE LOOK FORWARD TO MEETING YOU. 


NEED CASH? 
NEW DONORS 
EARN.$20 TODAY 
MENTION THIS AD FORA$5.00 BONUS 
Up to $145.00 a month in 2-4 hours a week 

SERA CARE PLASMA 
234-6010 515 LINCOLNWAYWEST 
Friday, April 27, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Alumni Association honors alum for service 
Special to the Observer 
Michelle Strathman, a 1996 graduate of Notre Dame received this year's Young Alumni Award from the Notre Dame Alumni Association at a luncheon yester­day on campus. 
The award honors an outstand­ing recent graduate who has shown leadership and inspiration to young alumni through Notre Dame Oub participation in events of a social. spiritual, community service or continuing education nature. 
Strathman has served since 1999 as president of the Notre Dame Club or Houston, where she has led numerous successful fund-raising campaigns and orga­nized several new programs, including the Young Families Initiative, a group dedicated to providing events and activities for families with young children. She also introduced an annual Christmas party for young alumni and the "Great Gift Gathering" program, which collects toys for children in need. 
Strathman earned her bache­lor's degree in chemical engineer­ing and business and served as a resident assistant in Cavanaugh Hall at Notre Dame. She also vol­unteered at the Center for the Homeless and El Campito child­care center in South Bend. and participated in the Christmas in April and H.U.G.S. programs. Since graduation, Strathman has worked as a benefits consultant for Hewitt Associates in Houston, where she also is active in her church and volunteers for numer­ous community programs. 


Special to the Observer 
In the wake of a startling new report by Human Rights Watch [HRWJ documenting extensive abuse in the 2-mil­lion inmate U.S. prison sys­tem, prominent scholars, advocates and practitioners in the field will gather here today for a conference on the topic. 
Sponsored by the Notre Dame Law School's Center for Civil and Human Rights [CCHR]. the conference is titled "Accountability in the Treatment of Prisoners" and will begin at 9:15 a.m. in the school's Barry Moot Courtroom. 
Among the conference par­ticipants will be Joanne Mariner, deputy director of the Americas division of HRW and author of the new report published last week titled "No Escape: Male Rape in U.S. Prisons." Her ground-break­ing 378-page study charges that prisoners in the United States suffer from "severe overcrowding, chronic vio­lence, rampant sexual abuse 

Conference exaIDines prisons 
and inhuman conditions," and she has called on litiga­tors and advocates to seek new means by which to pro­tect inmates' rights. 
Conference participants will examine four main issues: trends and problems in the treatment of prisoners, the role of government in ensur­ing accountability, the limits of legal remedies, and the role of civil society in prison monitoring. 
Sir David Ramsbotham, chief inspector of prisons in the United Kingdom, will deliver the conference1s keynote address, "The Value of an Effective Prison Inspector," at 12:45 p.m. 
The conference comes at an especially pivotal time in Indiana. The state legislature is considering several reforms in the treatment of prisoners, including the creation of an ombudsman for corrections. Among the conference partic­ipants will be Marshall Lux, the ombudsman in Nebraska, and Robert Ohlemiller, deputy commission of the Indiana Department of Corrections. 

Other participants include: 
. 
Baroness Vivien Stern, sec­retary general of Penal Reform International 

. 
Jamie Fellner. associate counsel for HRW 

. 
Mellie Nelson, deputy-chief of the Special Litigation Section in the Civil Rights Division of the U.S. Department of Justice 

. 
John Boston. director of the Prisoners Rights Project of the New York Legal Aid Society 

. 
Kelsey Kauffman from the Inter-Faith Alliance for Prison Justice 

. 
Edward Rubin, a professor of law at the University of Pennsylvania 

. 
Paul Hoffman, former board member of Amnesty International USA 

. 
Ken Falk, legal director of the Indiana Civil Liberties Union 

. 
JoAnne Page, executive director of the Fortune Society 


The Of-fice lo~ S'fude>ds w,-fh 'lAsetbil,-f;es is 'fokinq opplicedions -lo~ -the lollo,,u;nq posi-fions lo~ -fetll 2001: 
Drivers, On-Campus Cart Transportation 3 -12 hours a week. Provide rides to class and residences halls for students with temporary injuries. Service operates on class schedule. Safety training required. 
On-Campus Cart Transportation Student Coordinator 12 hours a week. Supervises drivers and develops daily ride schedules. Safety training required. 
Textbook Recorder Flexible hours. Tape record textbooks and other class materials for students with visual impairments and dyslexia. 
Courier Flexible hours, 3 to 5 a week. Make deliveries and pick ups for the office of time sensitive material. 
Ifyou are interested in any of these positions please stop by the Office at 109 Badin Hall. Ifyou have questions please call 631-7157. 
HOIDES FOR REDT 
2002 -2003 SCHOOL YEHR 

-oomus PROPERTIES HHS 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 96 10 
BEDROOffi HOUSES HUHILHBLE -STUDEDT DEIGHBORHOODS -CLOSE TO CflffiPUS -SECURITY SYSTEms PROUIDED -WELL ffifllDTftlnED HOffiES 
-mHIDTEnftnCE STRff on CHLL -WHSHER nno DRYERS 

RUHILHBLE FOR THE 2002-2003 SCHOOL YEHR LEHSIOG now oomus PROPERTIES 
COOTHCT RRFlffiER (219) 298-9673 OR (219) 234-2436 OR (219) 674-2571 
When a dorm just doesn't feel like home ... Graduate to a new apartment at 
RUNAWAY BAY APARTl\IBNTS! 
An award winning property featuring: 
*1 and 2 bedrooms with central air *exercise facilities, sauna, indoor spa, pool *tennis courts, volleyball court 
*carports & garages *fireplaces & lake views 
An attractive, quiet, friendly community, RUNAWAY BAY is conveniently located close to EVERYTHING including campus! 
Call us today at (219)256-1350 
RUNAWAY BAY APARTMENTS ... 
We'll make you feel at home www.runaway-bay.com 
·------------------,-~-----------------------­
RUNAWAY BAY APARTMENTS 
PRESENT TIDS COUPON AND RECEIVE $100.00 OFF FIRST MONTHS RENT! 
*coupon must be presented with application for lease *coupon applies toward a 12 month lease 
!Coupon Expires 8/31/2001 LIMIT ONE COUPON PER APARTMENT 
·~----------------------------------·------------------·. 


page 8 The Observer . NEWS Friday, April 27, 2001 
UKRAINE 
Judge orders woman's feeding 
Former Soviets . 11-year coma 
victim's husband's 
wishes denied by

mark anniversary 
Flordia court 

Associated Press 
KIEV, Ukraine 

With prayers and flickering candles, people across the for­mer Soviet Union honored those killed and sickened 15 years ago by the world's worst nuclear dis­aster at Ukraine's Chernobyl power plant. 
In Moscow, hundreds of peo­ple mourned firefighters who died after the radioactive explo­sion and were buried in radia­tion-proof coffins. In Kiev, hun­dreds more people attended an overnight memorial service at a chapel built to commemorate the disaster. 
The scene was repeated in the Belarusian capital and in Slavutych, a town of Chernobyl workers near the plant. In Home, Pope John Paul II prayed for the victims. The pope is schcduled to visit Ukraine in June. 
The April 26, 1986, explosion and fire sent a radioaclive cloud over much of Europe and conta­minated large areas in then­Soviet Ukraine, Hussia and Belarus. 
The Ukrainian government says more than 4,000 people involved in the hastily and poor­ly organized Soviet cleanup effort have died, and that more than 70,000 Ukrainians were disabled by the disaster. 
In all, 7 million people in Belarus, Russia and Ukraine are estimated to suffer physical or psychological effects of radiation related to the Chernobyl cata­strophe. 
At the chapel in Kiev, mourn­ers held burning candles as priests prayed for the dead. The chapel bell rang shortly after 1 a.m., the time the reactor exploded. Some in the crowd broke into tears. 
Early Wednesday, Ukrainian leaders laid wreaths at a monu­ment to firefighters and emer­gency workers next to the chapel. A similar service was held in Slavutych, where President Leonid Kuchma said the disaster continues to hobble Ukraine's development. 
"Human calamities and prob­lems born by the disaster remain," Kuchma said. "For 15 years, Ukraine has borne the cross of Chernobyl practically alone. We had to do everything on our own in unfavorable eco­nomic conditions." 
In Belarus, some 10,000 peo­ple turned out for an evening rally in the capital, Minsk, to commemorate the tragedy. 
"We are a sick nation and we must do everything to become a normal nation," opposition politician Pavel Severinets said. 
In the Vatican, the pope prayed for the Chernobyl victims at a service attended by Ukrainian children. 
At Moscow's Mitino cemetery, hundreds of relatives and friends paid tribute to dead fire­fighters. 
"We have come here for 15 years and I will come with my husband as long as we have our health," said Valentyna Lopatiuk, whose son was a Chernobyl firefighter. 
Following the explosion, other reactors at Chernobyl continued operating until shutting down in December under intense international pressure. 
At the plant itself, workers still monitor the now-idle reactors, and they are building a heating plant and facilities for nuclear waste disposal and reprocessing. 
They are also involved in a $758 million internationally funded project to repair the leaky concrete and steel sar­cophagus over the ruined reac­tor. 
Associated Press 
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. 

A judge Thursday ordered that a comatose woman be placed back on a feeding tube, two days after her husband won legal permission to remove it. 
Circuit Judge Frank Quesada granted a delay requested by Terri Schiavo's parents, citing new allegations that Schiavo·s husband lied in saying his wife didn't want to be kept on life support. 
"I don't think there is any­thing more final or irrepara­ble than death," Quesada said. 
Attorneys for parents Bob and Mary Schindler told Quesada that their daughter, 37, had not received the liquid nutritional supplement that has kept her alive during her 11-year-coma since Tuesday morning. 
After the judge's order, Michael Schiavo called hospice officials as requested to have the feeding tube replaced, his attorney said. 
money. 
"Mr. Schiavo has
They also way to U.S. 
cited new engaged in a course of Supreme 
allegations conduct so he can kill his Court Justice by Michael Anthony
wife and inherit her
Schiavo's Kennedy ex-girl­estate." earlier this frie n d. w e e k . C i n d y Kennedy
Pat Anderson 
S h o o k refused to
attorney for the victim's parents
Brashers, intervene. 
"I don't think there are 
words that can express the 
outrage that he feels and the 
pain and the hurt," said 
Micheal Schiavo's lawyer, 
George Felos. 
Earlier Thursday, the 
Schindlers sued their son-in­.Jaw, alleging he has lied in court so he can end his wife's 
life and col­
1e ct her 
who told the couple that Schiavo lied in saying his wife wished not to be kept on life support. 
"Mr. Schiavo has engaged in a course of conduct so he can kill his wife and inherit her estate," said Pat Anderson, the Schindlers' attorney. 
Michael Schiavo, who stands to inherit $700,000 from his wife's medical malpractice trust fund if she dies, has denied the allegations. 
He has said he is carrying 
out wishes his wife expressed long before a heart attack caused her severe brain dam­age. 
Felos said Schiavo describes Brashers as a "disgruntled ex­girlfriend." 
The injunction came at the end of a day of furious legal action waged by the Schindlers, who took the case all the 
B u t 

Thursday's lawsuit against Michael Schiavo opens up new legal avenues and a new round of appeals. 
Quesada granted the injunc­tion after an emotional hour­long hearing and al'ter earlier refusing to give up jurisdiction in the case. The Schindlers' attorneys argued that the judge shouldn't wait until the new lawsuit is litigated because there is no time to delay. 
The African and African-American Studies Program Cordially Invites You to its 
2001 Festival of African Films 
Friday • 27 April 2001 
4:00 PM Lecture • Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
"Globalization and African Cinema" 
Dr. Mbye Cham Professor of African Studies • Howard . University 
A Reception will follow the Lecture 
Saturday • 2 8 April 2 O O 1 

by Ingrid
']-(ayyy 
'Birthday to our {itt{e 
Film-"The 
6a{{erina! 
10:00 AM Film-"Flame" 

Sinclair (Zimbabwe)-85 minutes 
12:00 PM Africans # 9: Global Africa" 
by AU Mazrul-60 minutes 
1:30 PM 

Panel Discussion-"African Identity vs. African­American Identity"
Love, 
:Mom, 'Dad, 'Ray, 
7:00 PM 
Stef, Steven, and 

Film-"Guimba the Tyrant" 
by Cheick 0. Sissoko (Mali) 1995-94 minutes All Events are Free and Open to the Public 
'Megan 
Co-Sponsors
The University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 

Anthropology Department • Department of Film, Television, and Theater English Department • Honors Program • Kroc Institute for International 
Peace Studies • President's Office • Romance Languages Department Snite Museum of Art 
The Notre Dame 
Colleglum Muslcum 
English Polyphony,c. 1400-1600 
Works by Power, Forest, Dunstable,Taverner, 
Browne, Byrd,and Gibbons 
Friday, April 27, 2001 
8:00 P.M. Moreau Seminary Chapel 
Free and open to the public 




Friday, April 27, 2001 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
McVeigh considered killing Reno 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Timothy McVeigh said he con­sidered assassinating former Attorney General Janet Reno and others instead of bombing the Oklahoma City federal build­ing to retaliate against the gov­ernment. 
"I considered, among other things, a campaign of individual assassination," McVeigh said in a letter to Fox News released Thursday. 
McVeigh said "eligible" targets included Reno, "making her accept 'full responsibility' in deed, not just word," for the deaths as a result of the federal raid on the Branch Davidian compound near Waco, Texas. 
Other targets included federal Judge Walter Smith, who presided over the Waco trial, 
~ lf @J ~ 6s @:11 @f;> Z1\ @@> 
4 MONTH SPECI~~. MAY THROUGH AIGUST FOR.NOTRE DAME STUDENTS 5x 1O-t--A$130+t>EP 10 ,no-;.. ;.. ·;.. $180 +DEP •· CA ·LL. 25643,04-4 
CLOSE TO NOTRE DAME AND AIRPORT 
and Lon Horiuchi, an FBI agent involved at a shootout at Ruby Ridge, Idaho. 
McVeigh said he bombed the federal building in Oklahoma City as a retaliatory strike against a government that he believed had waged violence against its citizens. 
"I decided to send a message to a government that was becoming increasingly hostile. by bombing a government building and the government employees within that building who repre­sent that government," McVeigh said in the letter. 
McVeigh, 33, is scheduled to be executed by lethal injection on May 16 for the 1995 bombing of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma City, which killed 168 people. 19 of them children. 
Until recently, the former Gulf 
lt,s all the buzz 
Get your head together. 
Crop it, color it, curl it comb it, chunk it, crunch it. 


while supplies last 
spicy, 
not 
pricey 

• 
m1a&MOXX 
HAIR STUDIO 
University Park Mall 
219.277.4427 

War veteran had not admitted his involvement in the bombing or explained his reasons for doing it. 
Last month, though, in a book about the bombing written by two reporters who interviewed him, McVeigh admitted his actions and called the children killed "collateral damage." 
Asked about the passage, McVeigh told Fox: "Collateral Damage? As an American news junkie; a military man; and a Gulf War Veteran, where do they think I learned that [It sure as hell wasn't Osami Bin Laden!l" -he wrote, misspelling the name of a suspected terrorist. 
As in the book, McVeigh said he bombed the federal building to avenge the deaths at Waco and contended his actions were justified. 
"Bombing the Murrah Federal Building was morally and strate­gically equivalent to the U.S. hit­ting a government building in Serbia, Iraq or other nations," McVeigh wrote. "Based on the observations of the policies of my own government, I viewed this action as an acceptable option." 

w. ' .
(0)­
m 
~f 
rm. (Q)f]}~f(Q);tte IltalJme. -­

-. ., 

The Office for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts and the Notre Dame Career Center proudly present the first ever event for the Women of Notre Dame Visitor Series. 
The Women of Notre Dame Project is a joint project intended to celebrate 30 years of co­education by providing strong female role models and mentors for our students and women supporters for our campus community. In the Visitor's Series, we invite women alums to campus to talk about their careers and particular expertise. 
Mary Monnat, President and CEO Tualatin Valley Behavioral Health Centers 
Ms. Monnat is a 1980 American Studies graduate 
Friday, April 27, she will give an informal talk over lunch on Balancing Career and Family Lunch will be provided 
11 :30 a.m. in 119 O'Shaughnessy 
A more formal talk on "My (Brilliant) Career: Life After Graduation" 3 p.m. in 114 O'Shaughnessy 
House passes fetus harm bill with support 
Asoociated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The House voted Thursday to make it a federal crime to harm a fetus during an assault on its mother, urging action on behalf of "unborn victims." Abortion rights advocates decried the bill as a foot in the door toward legal recognition of fetuses as people. 
After a lengthy and some­times testy debate that included pictures of a woman holding a stillborn baby who died after she was assaulted, the House passed the bill 252-172, almost identical to the 254-172 margin by which it was passed a year ago. 
Unlike last year, this bill has the support of the White House and its new occupant. Former President Clinton had promised to veto it if it ever reached him. It didn't, large­ly because there was little support for it in the Senate. 

JIM BLUM 
HAPPY 22ND 
BIRTHDAY (5/6) 
AND GRADUATION CONGRATULATIONS! 
LOVE, MOM AND DAD 

The Senate Judiciary 
Committee, now evenly split 
between Democrats and 
Republicans, has yet to set a 
hearing on the issue this 
year. 
"This legislation affirms 

our commitment to a culture 
of life, which welcomes and 
protects children," President 
Bush said in a prepared 
statement as he traveled to 
Houston on Thursday. 
House supporters charac­

terized the bill as an anti­
crime measure, not an abor­
tion issue. 
"The law must not look 

upon a violent criminal's 
unborn victims with an indif­
ferent eye," said House 
Majority Whip Tom DeLay, R­
Texas. "Every young life 
must be acknowledged. And 
every young life must be pro­
tected from predatory crimi­
nals." 
De Lay assailed a 

Democratic amendment that 
would have stiffened penal­
ties for harming a pregnant 
woman but not made harm­
ing a fetus a separate crime. 
"Life and death should not 
be subsumed beneath a 
semantic fog," he said. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 

-Used Books bought and sold -25 Categories ofBooks -25,000 Hardback and Paperback 
books in stock -Out-of-Print search service -Appraisals large and small 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 


VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

page 10 BSERVER Friday, April 27, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 02~ Sourh Dining Hall. Noire Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noiecn Gillespie  Boh Wood,  
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR  
Kerry Smirh  

NEWS EunoR: Jason McFarlcy VtF.Wl'OINr En1TOll.: !'at McElwee SPORTS EDITOR, Noah Amsudccr ScENF. EDITOR, Amanda Greco SAINT MARv'S EDITOR, Myra McGrilf PHOTO Eurroa, Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER, Kimberly Springer Au DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pohvel Chin WEB Al>MINISTRATOR: AJam Turner CONTROLI.ER: Kevin Ryan GJlAl'IIICS EDITOR: Katie McKcnna 
CONTACT Us 
On'ICE MANAGERIGF.NEIW. INFO.............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVF.KTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF ........................................ 6J!-4S42 MANAGING EonoRIAssT. ME.. . . .. ...........631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE..................................... ...631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer .obsncws. l@nd.edu 
VrnWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu SroRTS ........................................................ 631-4543 obscrver.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.. .......................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv'S.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................ 631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ........., .......631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire at hrtp:llobservt'T.na.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as weU as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from rhe Associated Press. 
SURf TO: 
weather for up-to-che 
movics/mwic for 
minute forecasts 
weekly srudem reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives 10 s=ch for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
,raff
August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper puhli,hcd in print and onlinc by the students of the UniversityofNom, Dame du Lac and S:unt Mary's C'..ollegc. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither instiru1ion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The nrws is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhc majority of1he EJ.iror in Chief, Managing Editor, Assisunr Managing Editor and depar<ment editors. Commentaries. letters and columns present 1he views of the authors and nor neccs.sarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is avail.ibk 10 all readers. The free expression ofall opinions rhrough lcners is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and muse include contact information. 
Qumiom rrgarding Obmvrr polidl'S ,hould b, dirtet­rd to Edi111r in ChkfMilu Co11n11Uy. 

Move parietals back to 9 a.m. 
The recommendation by the Campus Llfe rooms. There is no increase in chaos or Council to change the end of parietalc; from deviant behavior because of these adjusted 10 a.m. to 9 a.m. was a logical and prudent times. It is unreasonable to assume that decision. In fact, it is difficult to wtderstand changing weekday parietals would result why Father Paul Doyle, Bill Kirk and in an increase in inappropriate behavior. Father George Rozum Rectors and administra­would vote against the reso­0 The tors may argue that parietal'> lution. l:iserver arc supposed to create a 
At 9 a.m., the day has •al quiet time in the dorm and 
already begun. Morning Edi~on not meant to prev_ent_stu­
classes are underway and l! the need for students to meet for studying and nomml social inter­action is obvious. The current system which segregates the sexes until 10 a.m. is not practical during a normal academic day at Notre Dame. 
In many dorms. parietals are already adjusted on football weekends so visitors of I.he opposite sex mn meet students in their dents from cngagmg m sexu­
al activity. BuL if that is true, then why are same-sex residents of differ­ent dorms allowed to enter another dorm before 10 a.m. while opposite-sex residents arc not? 
If parietals aren't about sex and deviant activity, why are residents of Alumni Hall allowed in Sorin before 10 a.m. but resi­dents of Pangborn not? 
Are residents of Alumni quieter and less distracting than Pangborn rcsident'i? And why are Pangborn residents allowed in Howard before 10 a.m. but not Alumni res­idents? 
It is obvious parietal'> have little to do with quiet hours and more to do with sex. 
Do Kirk, Rozum and Doyle really believe that students are more likely to engage in improper sexual activities between 9 a.m. and lO a.m. than they arc alter 10 a.m.? If students of the opposite sex can attend classes together at 8:30 a.m., why wouldn't they be able to study or work together in dorm rooms at 9 a.m:? 
Father Mark Poorman would be wisn to accept the recommendation of the 13 CLC members who voted for the 9 a.m. propos­al and adjust the parietals standards for next year. 
My own contmencement address 
Commencement addresses are notori­ous for quickly fading from our memories. My commencement was no exception. Today, I only remember that the late jour­nalist Carl Rowan received an honorary 
degree with me on May 20, 1973. 
Several years ago I approached Howan at a dinner where he was initially reluctant to speak with me until l mentioned that we were class­


mates. Funny how 

Gary Caruso
a commencement 
can have such a 
disarming quality 
Capitol
decades later. 

Each spring, l Comments imagine that Notre Dame has invited me to address the graduating class. This year's fantasy address has special rele­vance for me because I am countering the President of the United States. As a former Clinton appointee that distinction gives me a measure of satisfaction. 
As a Democrat, I emphatically oppose Bush's policies and politics, but still recog­nize that the class of 2001 is among a handful of Notre Dame classes to be hon­ored by a presidential commencement address. 
Yet, something is terribly wrong with our political system when African Americans vote by more than 95 percent for Democrats and against Republicans. The gender gap of women favoring Democrats and men favoring Republicans is a storm cloud in our future. Political changes are needed when Republicans are delighted that only 65 percent of HL'ipanics voted against the Republican president. 
Bush will speak about prayer and faith, forgiveness and compassion, family and conservative values, service to the com­munity, willing hearts and commitment to children, neighbors and God. Democrats find it ironic that George W. Bush's presi­dency is developing a pattern similar to Ronald Reagan's. 
Both portray themselves as such patri­ots invoking God and prayer at every opportunity, yet both rarely attend church on Sunday. Since his inauguration, Bush has yet to worship in Washington. It is quite a contrast to the many Sunday mornings while I was walking the dogs when the Clinton motorcade silently passed to his church a block from my resi­dence. 
Hegardless of what is said, this year's seniors will always remember that the president spoke to them. The late humorist Art Buchwald reminded gradu­ates that nobody remembers commence­ments and only hoped that his audiences would at least remember that they laughed on graduation day. My wish is that graduates can learn to choose between the names Elliott and Nick. 
It seems to me that life facing this year's seniors is like the cross-country journey director Rob Reiner portrayed in the movie "The Sure Thing." Two college stu­dents, John Cusack and Daphne Zuniga, traveled from New England to California. Their trek begins with absolute friction between them, but eventually grows into an understanding of each other. 
Cusack, a free-spirited, crass freshman, uses a fake identification to drink beer and eats junk food for breakfast. He trav­els to visit a high school pal who ha'> set Cusack up with a girl who is a "sure thing." Zuniga is on her way west to visit her cultured high school boyfriend whose greatest attribute is his collection of brands of tea. 
Along the way Cusack shows the refined, introverted Zuniga how to shot­gun a beer, live fast and be spontaneous. For her part, Zuniga teaches Cusack to be serious and more mature. In the end, Zuniga breaks up with her old boyfriend and Cusack refuses "the sure thing." 
For me, the essence of the movie is cap­tured when Zuniga says she would name her first child either Cynlhia or Elliott. Cusack counters that Elliott is I.he "name of a fat kid with glasses who eats paste." Cusack continues, "Nick is a real name. Nick is a guy you can trust. Nick is a guy you go with to drink a beer." 
Life for the class of 2001 will be a series of choices between the so-called Elliotts and Nicks. Those choices may not be as dramatic as the I Iebrew saying, "Whoever 
saves one life saves the world in time." 
Yet, already these past four years students 
have affected the lives of their fellow 
classmates for better or worse, depending 
upon their degree of openness and toler­
ance. 

This year students could choose between HOTC and Pax Christi or compro­mise between the extremes. 'Ibey could support or oppose a public offering of 'The Vagina Monologues." They could have added to another's life or chipped away at someone's pride by ignoring or ridiculing others. 
Notre Dame strives to develop intellect. character and values. Yet. all too often. in an effort to attain such lofty idcal'i, indi­viduality is sacrificed for a herd mentality. One will eventually learn in the real world. well beyond Catholic Disneyland, that diversity and tolerance are the strengths of our nation. Adaptability is the thread that ties civilized societies together. 
Many of my fellow classmates have become disillusioned, arc disturbed at I.he rapid rate of expansion on campus and arc upset that money seems to be playing more of a role in life. Some arc embar­rassed at I.he administration's dealings with issues perceived to be contrary to Church teaching. It is sad to see friends. who as young "Nicks," were full of exu­berance and loyalty, turn the magic twin­kle once radiating from their eyes into the dull, disappointed glare. 
People of presidential stature arc remembered for the positions they held. Humorists like Art Buchwald are remem­bered for the way they entertained with laughter. My words today will fade surely as the seasons of the year turn. 
But if just one member of this graduat­ing class can instill pride and self-confi­dence in others a'i a result of my analo!,,Y of Nick, then my anti-commencement address has had value. We should always remember that everything we do has a consequence. For everything we take. we leave something behind. 
Gary J. Caruso is a 1973 Notre Dame graduate and his column appears every other Friday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
DILBERT 

CONGRESS IS LYING ABOUT THE BUDGET, STOCK ANAL 'f'STS ARE 
LYING ABOUT THEIR 
RECOMMENDATIONS, MY BOSS 15 LYING .. 

SCOTT ADAMS 
THIS THERAPY STUFF IS SCIENTIFICALLY 
PR.OVEN TO WORK, 
RIGHT? 
0 
"j; 

T ---J--I.---J_;:;;:i;;;,__..1..1,..,......., 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'Tm the one that ·s got to die when it ·s time for me to die. so let me live my life the way l want to ... 
Jlml Hendrix musician 

IEWPOINT 
O
THE Friday, April 27, 2001 BSERVER page I I 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR GUEST COLUMN 
McVeigh's execution will help to preserve justice 
'Tm all in favor of keeping dangerous tice. Yes, that's right, justice. Not pay­weapons out of the hands of fools. Let's back, not retaliation, not revenge. start with typewriters." -Frank Lloyd Justice. Wright. Everyone in this county, you. me, 
I've read some crazy things in The George W. Bush, everyone, has an oblig­Observer Viewpoint section over the ation to see to it that justice is meted out years, but Kelly Kingsbury's essay on to criminals, especially heinous ones. To Tim McVeigh's execution takes the cake, do anything less would not only dishon­narrowly beating out the one I read a or the memory of those who were lost in week ago by the fellow who lost his the blast but undermine the basic social inflatable dinosaur. contract that we all live under. 
I know most of you are busy chewing Without the respect for that contract your lunch at the dining hall while nothing that we take for granted in this you're reading this, so I won't waste country would be possible. No govern­your time. I'll get right to the point: ment. no basic rights, no freedoms ­Comparing Tim McVeigh to Jesus is not nothing. I probably wouldn't even be onlv offensive and outrageous but able to write self-righteous editorials to entirely inscrutable coming from a Notre my old school newspaper. Dame student nearing the end of her While I suspect that most seniors will career. be thinking of their friends. the past four 
While the events of Jesus' life are open years or the future during commence­to interpretation, most everyone would ment, if some of vou must think ofTim agree that he was not a mass-murderer. McVeigh, I implore you to also: It is therefore not "ironic" that Our Think of his victims. All of them, not Lady's name appears on the degree just the 168 who died. Remember he's 
G.W. Bush will be receiving on May shown zero remorse. None. Try and 20th. It would only be "ironic" if Jesus think of a more just punishment. Christ were somehow to be revealed as I encourage all of you, those of you a mass-murderer or Tim McVeigh to be who slept through both of your philoso­the son of God. Don't hold your breath phy classes anyway, to brush up on your for either. concept of capital punishment. 
As for Ms. Kingsbury's indictment of Personally. I feel that executions are not the law degree being presented to about vengeance or retaliation or even George W. Bush, I would ask only one punishment. I feel they are a matter of question: What else would we present justice, to which each and every one of to a man, who on May 16 will uphold us has an obligation. But don't take my the laws of this country by seeing to it word for it, read for yourself or talk to that the sentence handed down to your local Philosophy Major or PI..S Timothy McVeigh is carried out? Some ne• er-do-well. people might think that a law degree Finally, to Chris Fuchs -I know who would be the bare minimum for such a has your inflatable dinosaur. man as this. 
The only people who will be weeping Gordon M. Butler on May 16th will be the families of the Class of'00 victims, who have waited so long for jus-April 26, 200 l 
Def ending the legitimacy of certain campus clubs 
There is a new kind of club on this My last example: I am a member of the campus. It is what I like to call a "We will ROTC program. I will not go into any of ruin any fun you may attempt to have" the politics of who is right and wrong, club. As a member of the Boxing Club, but merely posit a question: Is it really Climbing Club and ROTC, I seem to true that the primary goal of one of our encounter these people whose sole pur­clubs struggling to gain recognition on pose as a club seems bent on ruining any this campus is to take away recognition fun I try to have. from another? It seems that there is 
Let me give a few examples. Just yes­something fundamentally flawed in this terday I found out that people are concept. protesting the Bengal Bouts because it is I was listening to the famous Denis too violent. Don't worry, I don't think Leary song, "A**hole," last night, and they're protesting ihe violence of football started to wonder, "Am I that guy?" I yet. The claim: it's wrong to go into a never meant to cross the line from wanti­ring with the sole purpose of hurting ng to have a good time or joining a dis­another person. Never mind that we tinguished organization or helping out raise thousands of dollars in a charity the needy, into the realm of drinking effort Never mind that we have one of Natural Ice while driving down the high­the safest-run activities in the University. way in my highly pollutant gas-guzzling Never mind that hurting another person automobile while flicking off old ladies isn't the purpose. and singing the lyrics to the latest 
Another example: I recently took a Eminem song as I drive by the local climbing trip down to Kentucky. We, as a Catholic kindergarten. club, frequent the Red River Gorge. It's a All this time I just thought I was inno­beautiful place and the climbs are excel­cently doing the things I love in life. But lent. However, this year some activists perhaps I shouldn't complain. I may be decided that climbers are harmful to the taking away some of the fun of those who environment. So, instead, they're going continue to pick on me. to block off the area to all humans. Apparently, mankind was never meant Shawn Newburg to see nature up close. rather just read sophomore about how great it is in National O'Neill Hall 
Geographic. Any closer would be just too April 26, 200 I devastating. 
Putting the post­graduation job search into perspective 
ITHACA, N.Y. Two weeks ago, The New York Times 
I called my old boss yesterday to cash ran a story headlined, "Job Loss in March in on what I thought was a standing job Biggest in 9 Years." According to the arti­offer at a Long Island media company. At cle, "The nation's employers shed 86,000 first we did a lot of small talk ("What's the jobs in March, the largest loss for a single new gossip around month in more than nine years and an the water cooler? indication to many economists that the
Devin Smith

Ha, ha."), but even­United 'States may be on the verge of a tually we got down recession." to business. Those guys at the stock exchange need 
Cornell Daily

Me: I can't believe to work up some more lather because this 
Sun

that I'm finally grad-sucks. uating, Mr. Bigshot. In fact, I called my dad last night to tell I'm really excited him this sucks and after he lectured me about starting work this summer. on the finer points of tuition payments 
Mr. Bigshot: Gee. Devin, I'm sorry to (namely that I owe it all back to him if I have to break it to you, but I don't know if don't find a job) he said, "I guess you don't that's really going to work out like we have it so bad, at least you don't have to planned. compete with a war economy." 
Me: ITrying to generate saliva) Ummm. At this point, the deft readers out there 
Mr. Bigshot: You see, we're in a hiring realize that my pops was referring to freeze right now so I can't offer you any­Vietnam. thing. I'm sure you understand. Although he didn't graduate until 1973, 
Me: (Understanding that I'm going to a year after the Selective Service termi­live with my parents until I'm 35) But I've nated the draft, my dad felt the pinch of worked there for so long. Human the post-Vietnam economy just as pro­Resources even called me "a top foundly as every other college grad­priority" and ua company invest­-uate of that era. The government's ment." You guys told me that l _:. so-called Guns And Butter cam­could even have my old desk by paign, a pledge to maintain both the ladies' bathroom after domestic and military spend­graduation. ing, was an ideal recipe for an 
Mr. Bigshot: It's out of my economic recession. hands. Give me a call when After bumming around the economy picks up a lit­jobless in Connecticut for a tle. few months, he and my 
And then it hit me, pri­mom bought a hollowed out marily because I'm deft at t"l!i;iiio!;~,:.i van (which doubled as their picking up subtle cues: Mr. lodging in the warm Bigshot was talking about W"lll!JII months) and rumbled off to the economy of the United Maine. My dad, who had States of America. won several writing 
I wish we had kept talk­awards in college, could ing about the water cool­only find work as a er. mechanic in a motorcycle 
Most college graduates "chop shop," and my mom, agree that landing a job is who graduated with a per­a tricky business. It fect GPA, answered phones involves a lot of hard work, for Ma Bell (which in Maine like going to the mall and ,t, means that she read a lot of buying a lot of crap, prefer­' books). ably stuff like computers After hearing this little and designer shoes. vignette from my father, I Although these things can started to feel really silly. I clearly help you during your realized that I'm so busy job interview they can also do bemoaning my joblessness and a lot of good behind the scenes. lamenting a little slowdown in 
When the technology and retail the economy that I don't even sectors are in high gear the rest of realize how much worse it could the economy gets a big boost from be. their profits. Big boosts are good Does it really matter if I find my because companies have to hire young dream job before I even leave Ithaca? pissants like us to keep the economic ball Does it matter if I don't have a 10-year rolling so they can have more big boosts. plan before graduation day? In the business world this phenomenon is For those of you who prefer logic to ide­called a "cycle." alistic pep talks, rest assured that 
Of course. this implies that landing a job although the market might be a little slug­
has nothing to do with being qualified. gish right now, the Fed's baldest surgeon, Instead, it's based on the growth rate of Alan Greenspan, has just introduced a the GNP, the DNP and the Dow Jones surprise half-point interest rate cut that industrial average, all divided by two­promises to create enough jobs so we thirds pi and then plugged into the qua­don't all have to move to Maine. dratic equation. It's based on market And who knows, maybe some of us will speculations (read: some sweaty guy on even get our own desks, even if they're the floor of the ~'YSE yelling and waving not next to the ladies' bathroom. slips of paper around), the price of eggs in Denmark and most importantly, whimsi­This article first appeared in Cornell 
cal percentage noint surgery by a balding University's newspaper the Cornell Daily economist named Alan Greenspan. Sun on April 25. 2001 and is reprinted 
As evidenced by my conversation with here courtesy ofU-WIRE. my boss yesterday, these formulae are The views expressed in this column are apparently not working out in my favor. those ofthe author and not necessarily And I don't seem to be the only one those ofThe Observer. singing the unemployment tune. 
T H 
cene R E 
O
THE page 12 BSERVER Friday, April 27, 2001 

KRISTINE KAAI/The Observer The cast of "Gypsy" has put together an astounding show that will be gracing the stage of the O'Laughlin Auditorium this weekend. Recreating the pop­ular 1960s musical by Arthur Larents, the story follows the trials, hopes and dreams of a show business-bound family. 
'Gypsy' roams onto O'Laughlin stage 
With its first musical in six years, SMC lights up a spectacular performance 
By MATT KILLEN 
Scene Theatre Critic 
Musical theatre returns to South Bend this weekend as the Saint Mary's Theatre Department performs "Gypsy" at the Moreau Center for the Arl<;. 
This 1960 musical by Arthur Larents, .Jule Styne and Stephen Sondheim follows the story of Hose (played by junior Beth Gervain) and her daughters, June and Louise. Set ln the 1920s, "Gypsy" ls about lfose's desirn for her daughters Lo pursue earners in vaudeville. Rose focuses her attention on the daughter she sees as the most talnnted, June. 
Vaudeville is fading from popularity {particularly as the depression hit.<;), how­evnr. and the rising tension between Rose and June eventually causes June to leave. Hose then turns her focus on her other daughter, Louise (played by junior Jen Simantz). Rose views Louise as far less tal­enwd than June, but her opinion soon changes as the two begin to work with each other. 

"The musical is a big deal here," Gervain said. "We haven't done one in about six years, and we're putting it on in O'Laughin [Auditorium]." Because of this, the Theatre Department is "Gypsy" pulling out all of the stops for 
SMC Theatre Department 

the produc-Production tion . "It's a big
. O'Laughlin Auditorium 

production,"
. Fri. & Sat. 8 p.m. 

Director and Sun. 2:30 p.m. Saint Mary's Theatre
. Tickets available by 

Department calling 284-4626; $16.50 faculty mem­ber Mark
for adults, $14.50 for 

Abram­
seniors, $8.50 lor the 

Copenhaver ND/SMC community, s a i d "Whereas a lot
$7.50 for students 

of plays and musicals explore minimalist approaches, we wanted to explore what we could to with more, to maximize almost everything. From the 
start, we've tried to expand the edges of a musical theatre production." The crew has even pushed the limits of the O'Laughlin Auditorium. Set and lighting designer Tom Boelman actually designed and built the turntable used on the stage. 
The Theatre DepartmPnt chose "Gypsy" because of Lhe production value and the music. '"Gypsy' was chosen because the music is really fun," Abram­Copenhaver said. "One of the things we\.e tried to capitalize on is that the music be an appropriate extension of the play." 
Gervain said what drew her to "Gypsy" was her character. Hose. "Hose isn't a typical musi­cal character." Gervaln said. "She's quitA complex. The char­acter has a lot of depth to her." 
This is one of the musical's strongest aspects. The plot is a fascinating look into Rose's attempts to fulfill the dreams she has for her daughters. The musical takes the time to explore the com­plex relationships, and the result is rewarding. This is a rare instance in musi­cal theater when the audience is as involved in the fate of the characters as they are in the songs and dances. 

In fact, there are some quite tragic moments in the play. The whole first act shows how June is unhappy doing whatev­er her mother asks. The audience feels a sensfl of pity and almost sadness for the whole family as they try to make it per­forming their vaudeville act wherever they can. 
The music and the story lines comple­ment each other nicely. Since the play is focused around vaudeville, this serves as an easy and natural transition to many of the musical numbers, which arc vaudeville acts performed on the "stage" in the musi­cal. 
Even scenes that take place outside the musical's stage have rousing and powerful numbers that seem to fit naturally, like Rose's "Everything's Coming up Roses," a highlight of the musical. The songs don't come out of nowhere -they arrive during the musical at the appropriate times. The musical is not rushed, yet at the same time moves along at a comfortable pace. 
Simply because "Gypsy" is rich in plot and substance doesn't mean it loses its production quality. In fact. the Saint Mary's Theatre Department's production is so highly detailed and demanding that it rivals even some professional productions. Ono of the most exciting aspects of the pro­duction is the turntable employed. This device allows for a variety of scene changes in a relatively expedient manm~r. 
The result is an incredibly entertaining show that has large musical numbers, powerful act.in.g and rewarding production values. "Gypsy" is certainly worthy of being the fu·st musical at Saint Mary's in several years. With a strong r,ast and a rousing score, "Gypsy" is a show with a wide appeal to many people. 
"Gypsy" is showing Friday and Saturday at 8 p.m. with a matinee performance Sunday at 2:30 p.m. Tickets are $16.50 for adults. $14.50 for senior citizens, $8.50 for members of the Notre DametSaint Mary's community and $7.50 for students. Tfckets can be reserved by calling Special Events at (219)284-4626. 
T H 
c~ne R E 
AJ:HE 

Friday, April 27, 2001 vnSERVER page 13 
The monster in the mirror 
f 71's production of "Oedipus Rex" explores the timelessness ofthis tragedy 
By C. SPENCER BEGGS 
Scene Tl-iearre Critic 
The stage is bathed in a chilling crimson. which casts dark shadows across the actors' faces that glare menacingly into the darkness. Their bodies pulsate to the rhythm of frenzied drumming and their solemn voices cast the room into a dizzy­ing hypnotic trance. The grating sounds 
"Oedipus Rex" 
of ancient 

ND FTT tragedy 
Greece piercp, 

. 
Washington Hall the atr, a place smoldering in

. 
Fri. & Sat. 7:30 


its own horror 

p.m.Sun. 2:30 ~.m. and beauty. 
The drum­

. Tickets available by 
ming crescen­

calling 631-8128; $9 
dos, and as general admission, $8 the lights go out, the stage
for seniors and $6 for 
is washed in 

students the soothing 
silence of the 
blackness. 

When the lights return, the stage is a tranquil blue. And, for the moment, the dire feelings of catharsis, of emotional purging, have sub­sided. Of course, the real tragedy of Sophocles' "Oedipus Rex" has yet to begin. 
Obviously, this production of the (;reek tragedy of tragedies is anything but usual. To avoid being a "museum piece" of the­atre. one that people attend but only pre­tend to enjoy, the FTT production staff has given Sophocles' 2,500-year-old show a face lift. Instead of being the mythical king of Thebes who solved the riddle of the Sphinx, Oedipus is transformed into the President of the United States. Creon, Oedipus' brother-in-law, is presented as a fellow political adversary and sometime ally. 
The modern translation of the text by Luci Berkowitz and Theodore Brunner closely follows the original Greek text. However, sometimes the lines show up more in the spirit of the text than in direct translation. Overall, this looser style makes the show a lot more entertaining to watch, although classicists would complain that some lines have been translated with a specifically modern spin. 
The presentation of the show in United States politics works alarmingly well. Although the lines still refer to Oedipus as "king'' and Jocasta as "qm~en," the actors convincingly portray their modernized roles. 
Staging the. show is not all patricide and self-mutilation, though. Tony Lawton, the director of the play, has a wonderful rela­tionship with his cast on and off the stage. During breaks and cast dinners. Lawton (although he mwer has anyone refer to him in such formal terms, a simple "Tony" will do) is constantly seen joking around with the rest of the cast. 
Lawton, an '89 Notre Dame alum who majored in the Program of Liberal Studies, is a visiting theatre professor for two years. Although Lawton was a full-time actor in Philadelphia, he jumped at the chance to return to the Dome to teach the­atre. 
Lawton was not the original director of the show but was selected when the first director took an unexpected leave of absence. 
Lawton has, however, stayed mostly to the original concept of the show, "[the original director] wanted to go modern dress with it and have Oval Office imagery, and I think it works well," Lawton said. "The important luxury modern dress affords us is that we are less removed from the story." 
In Lawton's mind, it is extremely impor­tant for the audience to identify with the protagonist in a tragedy. He feels that the arch of the story is reflective of human experience. "It's a great story for a Catholic school," Lawton said of the moral teachings the show presents. Oedipus goes looking for evil, finds it in himself and then must perform penance to purge it. 
"The problem people have with 'Oedipus [Rex]' is that they have the irrational anxi­ety that any one of us can [potentially] become a monster," Lawton said. 
Critics may assert that this production's interpretation of the classic modernizes not only the dress but also the message. Lawton, howev­er, does not believe that he has imposed his interpretation on 
the story. He feels that parallels exist because the story is truly a classic. "I think a thing is true regardless of what culture discovers it," Lawton said. 
The real triumph of "Oedipus Rex" is not its novel interpretation, but its acting. Junior Matt Lee, who plays Oedipus, is remarkably convincing in his portrayal of the king/president. And the audience will certainly enjoy senior J.J. Area's perfor­mance as the sallow-faced Creon. A con­siderably talented chorus performs sopho­more Kat Walsh's enchanting choreogra­phy, and freshman Tom Connor's portray-al of an elderly messenger is sure to please, as well. 


Theatre lovers will find that "Oedipus Rex" is one of the best theatrical presenta­tions on campus this year. It is a produc­tion not to be missed. 
"Oedipus Rex" will be performed at Washington Hall Friday and Saturday at 
7:30 p.m. and there will be a matinee at 
2:30 p.m. on Sunday. Tickets are $9 for general admission, $8 for senior citizens and $6 for students. Thickets are available at the Lafortune Student Center Box Office or order by phone call (219) 631-8128. 

..-.,-------------------------------­
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, April 27, 200 I 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXX 
Bosephus won't be 
overlooked this time 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Senior Staff Writer 
Last year, Please Call Us Bosephus took the Bookstore Basketball tournament by sur­prise. with the all-freshmen team going from virtual unknowns all the way to the final eight. where it lost to eventual 

,. champion Keyplay.com. By the end of the tourney, Bosephus had earned the respect of their competitors. with Keyplay's Cas Schneller predict­ing Bosephus would be the team to beat the next three years. This year. No. 5 Bosephus has no such anonymity. Bosephus backed up its seed with a 21-16 
r 
victory against No. 12 seed Five Degree Guarantee Thursday. 
''This is the first game where we really played as a team." Bosephus· Evan Maher said. "We really moved the ball around." 
The five sophomores of Bosephus -Morrissey's Pat O'Brien and Alumni residents Maher, Brian Ostick, Jason Sullivan and Andy Bozzelli ­shot their way to a 7-3 lead, with O'Brien doing the bulk of the scoring. 
But Five Degree didn't give up that easily. Blake Sanz led the assault on Bosephus. scoring half his team's points. 
"We got it lo 11-9 and then rushed shots," said Josh Bilz of Five Degree, which also made it to the Sweet 16 a year ago. "We took a lot of perimeter shots, and didn't get it inside. I thought we had an advantage inside. We lost where our game was." 
Bosephus reeled off three straight points to pull ahead 17 ­
11. Ostick was a big key in the second half with two free throws and several field goals. 
"We moved on offense the whole time," Sullivan said. "Before, we just sat around and let two people try to take over. Today everyone was playing well, cutting through lanes." 
As Bosephus closed out the game, it got a little fancy. O'Brien swiped the ball from the opponent and tossed it behind his back to Sullivan, who got it to Ostick for an in-the-lane bucket. After three more Five Degree buckets, Sullivan finished the win off for Bosephus by sinking a free throw. 
"We plan on being back," Bilz said. "Everyone's coming back, so we'll be back." 

Versatility edges Killer Boots 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Senior Staff Writer 

It takes heart to come from behind for the 21-19 victory like Versatility did Thursday. 
"When you get down to the final 16." said VersatilityOs Chris Dillon, "you expect every game to be close. Obviously, it was a little closer than we would have liked." 
Versatility entered the match-up against Killer Boots, Man! as the decided favorite. Versatility held the No. 2 seed in the tourney. and has taken its game into the Final Four each of the past two years. Killer Boots. Man! was the No. 15 seed, and only got into the Sweet 16 when Boat Club, which defeated Killer Boots in the round of 32: was disquali­fied for using an ineligible play­er Tony Rice. 
The rankings didn·t mean much in the Versatility-Killer Boots contest, as Versatility held its last lead at 3-2 and trailed by as many as four mid­way through the game. Dave Marchiano, Mike Eades, Andrew Orosz and Mike Hoefling received a huge height boost when they replaced an injured player with 6-foot-8 assistant men's basketball coach Evan Preston Thursday afternoon. 
But betting on Versatility to make its free throws would have made a jackpot of money. Versatility, down 16-14, scored six of its last seven points on free throws, with four players getting in on the charity work. 
"They hit their foul shots," said Killer Boots' Dave Marchiano. a lights-out shooter in the first half. ..The foul shots were really clutch." 
John Hiltz of Versatility, a walk-on for the Irish men's basketball team in 1999-2000. brought the heart to nail the final two free throws. His heart may have been beating a little bit faster, but it was nothing compared to the way it used to race back in high school. 
"When I would play basket• ball," Hiltz said, "my heart would race and go up to like 250 beats a minute, and I would get tired." 
Although Hiltz kept playing high school ball, the heart problem hampered his game. 
"The doctors couldn't diag­nose it until my freshman year." Hiltz said. "Once I had surgery to fix that, I was able to play. My endurance was a lot better and I was able to play at a much higher level." 
The surgery took place just in time for Hiltz to play Bookstore Basketball as a freshman in 1999. He and three Keough Hall sectionmates -Joe Lillis. Jason Childress and Chris Dillon -teamed up with James Cochran. The unseeded Versatility squad went all the way to the championships. where it lost to Malicious Prosecution. 
As a sophomore. Hiltz was in good enough shape to try out for the varsity men's basketball squad. He made the team, and saw action in several games for coach Matt Doherty. 
"It was something I'd wanted to do my whole life," said Hiltz. 
No walk-ons made the team this year. Mike Brey's first as the head coach for the Irish. 
"[ was disappointed. but I undersand that it's his philoso­phy," Hiltz said. "He's the coach and he didn't take any­body. That's his prerogative. The bottom line is, if you're a good enough player. you make the team." 
Without Hiltz last year. Versatility advanced to the Final Four before losing to eventual champions Keyplay.com. This year, Lillis. Childress, DiUon and I liltz are reunited. with the addition of senior Tim Greene. 
"Both years, we lost to the champions, so this year. we're hoping it will be us," said Dillon. 
The Ob•erver accepts classifieds every busines• day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. ar che Nocre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves 1he right co cdH all classifieds for comenr without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Europe $199 one way. Rent for fall semester 3 bdnn duplex Graduating seniors: Indiana Catholic couple with huge Mexico/Carribbean or Central 4 bedrooms, 2 full baths, washer & 501/503 Eddy St. Looking lo sell your apartment furni-hearts wishing to adopt a child. We 
TICKETS America $250 round trip plus taJ<. dryer, basement w/hot tub, new fur-Appliances, W/D ture (beds, desks, couches, etc)? can provide your baby with lots of Other world wide destinations nace, security system. Cail to see 1 mile from campus ND juniors looking to buy. Call Nick love and a secure, stable life cheap. If you can beat these prices 277-0636 273-8332 or 250-7080 al 4-4716 if interested. Reasonable expenses will be paid 
4 U2 Tickets 4 May 4  start your own airline. Book tickets  For more info, please call Rebecca  
Fri. Before Derby  on line www airtech.com or toll tree  Newly remodeled 5 bedroom hOuse  5-6 BR House, furnished, W/D,  Retired ND staffer & spouse wish to  re Larry and Cathy: toll-free 1 -866­ 
Lexington, KY.  (8TT)AIRTECH  available to rent for fall semester. 2  Popular location, 10-mo. Lease.  apt. for summer. Reliable, non•  30-ADOPT  
Call 243-1487  full baths, washer & dryer, huge rec  233-9947  smokers, no pets, have family in  
Bunk Bed/Futon-Fire ND mattress  room, security system. Call now to  area 135 Lakeview dr., Mulberry Fl.  LADIES: Take a study break and  
Need one ticket for graduation, call  on top, couch/double bed on bot- see 277-0636  An adorable 1 5 bdrm. House w/  33860 (863) 425-4404 or call our  meet guys, make fun of them, or  
Mike at 246-9085 for info  tom. $175 or best offer. 243-1366.  garage by St. PatrickOspark 702­ daughter locally at 256-2335.  both with the new ThatGuy1 Game  
Looking to share/sublet summer  436-1594.  As seen in In Style. Glamour &  
Need one ticket to graduation. Price  WATERBED-great for off-campus.  apartment. Will be performing  RETIRED ND STAFFER &  Entertainment Weekly. Endless  
negotiable. Call 4-3760  $60. Eric 277-7950  internship in South Bend May 13  Lakeview ­1640 Byron ­Bright 3  SPOUSE WISH TO RENT APT  Funl $9.99 at  
through August 18. Non-smoker.  bedroom duplex (2000 sq/ft) in  FOR SUMMER. RELIABLE, NON­ 'Jf!i.'/!_ !tla!iiu~oame i;;Qm  
2 tickets for graduation needed. Will pay$$$ Call Dustin@ 243-1751  Furniture for Sale (entertainment center w/ VO TV and VCR (sepa­ (419) 352-4136 (timgoodenow@yahoo,com)  graystone two flat, enormous kitchen, recessed lights, built-in  SMOKERS. NO PETS, HAVE FAM­!LY IN AREA. 135 LAKEVIEW DR.  Graduating Seniors: Looking lo sell  
rate), desk, dresser, shelving unit,  speakers. 2 1/2 new baths  MULBERRY FL (863) 425-4404 OR  your apartment furniture (beds,  
etc.) all in great condition! Prices  Duplex apartment 1 mile from cam­ (Jacuzzi), hardwood floors, W/D  CALL OUR DAUGHTER LOCALLY  desks, couches, etc?) ND juniors  
FOR SALE  negotiable. Call Dustin@ 243­1751.  pus, good neighborhood. Downstairs large 2 BR $500/month  include. Hi/Elf Furnace w/ AC, Deck $2100/mo one year lease only  AT 256-2335  looking to buy. Call Nick 4-4716 if interested.  
Upstairs 1 large BR Laundry avail­ 773/472-7775 or 800/323-8144 x  1 FEMALE ROOMMATE TO  
Ill We have balls Ill  1428 Marigold Way Northshore  able tor both. Landlord pays  640  SHARE 2-BEDROOM APT.  Are you moving to the DETROIT  
For Sale 9000 balls  Condo  gas/water/trash. Mature  WISENlOR FEMALE FOR NEXT  area? The Notre Dame Club of  
Suitable for dormroom ballp1l  Close to ND. 1 Bdrm, 1 bath, LR,  seniors/grads preferred 233-1604  Lake living bear Bremen  YEAR. TURTLE CREEK. CALL  Detroit would tike to welcome you to  
Contact acQ!:lri!l6~ .d,etlu  DR & Kitchen include. All appl. 1  most pets okay  243-1487  out area and extend an invitation to  
car garage & large storage closet.  Rent for fall semester  new 3 bedroom  join us at club events Please join  
098 Honda Prelude 2 dr. sports  Condo fees inc. ext. maintenance,  4 bedrooms, 2 lull baths,  air, garage, disposal, dishwaher  Not sure what to do with those old  us this summer for a trip to the  
coupe. Greenfivory. 42k miles.  pool. tennis, club house. cable, gas  washer&dryer, basement w/ hot  $960/month  dorm room items? Will buy refriger- Second City Comedy Club, a golf  
Excellent condition. One owner  heat, water, sewer, trash, water  tub, new furnance, security system.  page 219-935-7845 or call 546­ ators, computers, TVs, stereos, etc.  outing, monthly Happy Hours, a  
New tires. Loaded. Sunroof. ABS.  heater & water softener.  Call 2TT-0636  4430  Call Brian at 4-1944  Tiger Game outing, and much,  
Spoiler. Great car. Call 1-4368  $72.500  3-8 BDRM HOMES  much more! To get involved with  
weekdays or 2TT-4605 after 5 pm.  Call Doris 255-7862  Newly remodeled 5 bedroom house  $180 per person. Furn.  Hoping to house sit or rent your  the club please contact Rachel  
Parked in Stepan Center lot.  available to rent tor fall semester. 2  Summer/Fall  home, furnished/unfurnished. until  Bradford-Smith  
Oakhill Condo N4 bdr/3 bath  FOR RENT  full baths, washer & dryer, huge rec room, security system. Call now to  272-6306  summer 2002. Married couple, early 40s • professional + student,  (patandrachel@oeopfeoc.cQm) or Amy Zwerk  
1/2 mile from campus  see 277-0636  Studio apartment in quiet neighbor- no kids. Call 616.697.5307 or  (Amy.J.Zwerk@Accenture.com) or  
fireplace. deck, pool access  Subleasing in turtle creek  hood near Notre Dame.  270.659.0096  check out the club website  
$99,000/best offer  Town house available during sum­ 1 br sublet 5/15-8/15, Downers  Unfurnished, cable, patio, $330/mo.  (IJttp·/Lalumoi od e!lul-ml~­ 
call Tim @ 612-802-0285  mer session. Call Nicloe Kenney at  Grove, IL, w/d, dw, ale, great com- Plus electric. Available June.  ROOMMATE WANTED  !leUhQme.html\. Thanks and best  
4-1346, or Jeny Kuehn at 4-1105  plex, room for 2 people,  Teleehone 616-687-8924  For DC 2001-2002  of luck.  
- WOODBRIDGE CONDO  $890/mo+util Rachel 312-498-6579  Dillon senior going to school in DC  
1819_9 Stoneridge -Apt F 123'1 sq. ft. $84,300, 3 bedrooms, 1  EXECUTIVE SUITE: One bedroom furnished executive suite Ncable &  CHICAGO APT. AVAILABLE FOR  WANTED  next year is looking for a cool roo­mate to share apartment  PERSONAL  
1/2 baths, dining room, living room,  local phone, housekeeping included  MAY THROUGH AUGUST IN LIN­ CALL4-0956  
 
kitchen. Condo fee $165 per month.  @ $SO/night (footba!Ugraduation  COLN PARK LOCATION. CLOSE  Summer daytime sitter for three  Weather for this week: Cloudy with  
The Hickey Group-Karen castelluc­ weekend rates higher). (219) 271­ TOEL  girls ages 12 to 5. 273-301 O  STUDENT/AMA TUER PHOTOG- a chance of Mike Lane  
cio 674-1682  6808 or e-mail: www.belleterre­ 1 or 2 BEDROOMS  RAPHER wanted to photograph  
suite@aol.com. ND Alum  OWN BATHROOM  FEMALE ROOMMATE ­ wedding at ND, May 12. Please  Kaile -you told me to tell you when  
Relax and enjoy life in this beautiful  owned/managed. Near ND.  $780/mo.  DETROIT SUBURBS  have examples of work. Call  it happend  
two bedroom condominium watch­ 1-312-443-6062 JAIME  Join another 001 ND grad!  Elizabeth 4-1447  
ing the St. Joseph River. This North  Studio apartment in quiet neighbor- Call Alison 4-2339  Welcome to Notre Dame • enjoy  
Shore Club condo. close to cam- hood near Notre Dame.  ROOMS FOR GRAD WEEKEND  Babysitter, pref. With own trans- your stay in 4A  
pus, has a ceramic tiled entryway  Unfurnished, cable, patio; $330/mo ..  Wild Irish Rose Inn  SECRET ARIAL WORK  portation, for two children, 2&6 yrs  
and kitchen floor, with mirrored bar,  Plus electric. Available June.  3mi north of campus  Part-Time/Work at home-Word pro- in our home. Flexible hrs. 277-1037  I am tan! (somewhat)  
whirlpool bath, large bedrooms, 1.5  Telephone 616-887-8924.  •brkfst buffet ea AM  cessing from dictation involving  
baths and storage shed. Call  •clean, comfortable & afford- client case studies. Must have com- Not sure what to do with those old  The loft is no more -let's have a  
Century 21 Goldstar office, 272­ Oak Hill Condo for rent. 2 bdrm, 2  able  puter. Dictaphone provided. Call for  dorm room items? Will buy relriger­ moment of silence  
2121 or 235-7207. Ask for John  bath. Available June 1. 1-765-362­ (2190 277-4303 or  info+interview, mornings M-Thur.  ators, computers, TVs, stereos, etc.  
Beard.  1040. Ask for John  Y:f:NJJ. riilllirilil:!tQ~ Qllffi  Ask for Cindy. 287-3373  Call Brian at 4-1944.  Then again, that not a bad thing  

-. ------------------­

Friday, April 27, 2001 The Obseroer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
Women's Basketball isn't the only campus team ranked No. 1 in the country. Looking for a campus job for the fall? Join the best collegiate newsroom in the nation with a paid or non-paid position at The Observer: Reporting, copy editing, photography, production and advertising positions available. Contact Noreen Gillespie, Managing Editor, at 631-4541 for details 2001 ACP National Newspaper of the Year  



page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, April 27, 2001 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXX 

Top-ranked Five Reasons rolls over Check Your Head 21-7 
By KA THLEEN O'BRIEN 
s~nior Staff Wri1~r 
Five Reasons Your Girl Left You could have given itself another name; Five Reasons We're Going To Dominate You. 
Dominate is what No. 1 Five Reasons Your Girl Left You has done all through the tour­nament. It did it once more Thursday night, running past Check Your Head 21-7. 
"In my mind, we have the top guys in all five positions," said Five Heasons' Dan Reidy. "We 're the best at all five positions -I mean, that's why we put the team together." 
The game might have been a little closer if Check Your Head, the 16th-seeded team, hadn't had to play without its top player. Six-foot-10 varsity basketball player Hans Hasmussen, left Thursday level Bookstore team. 
The first new player cement­ed on Five Reasons' roster was Pete Ryan. 
"Dan [Reidy] and I always wanted to play together," Ryan said. "Last year. we played against each other. and we eliminated his team to go to the Final Four. That's when I played for Majesties. So he was like, well, we're not doing that again. We're going to play on the same team next year." 
Ryan, at 6-4, is an all­around athlete. He captured four straight Bengal Bouts titles as a captain of the Boxing Club. With his older sister a Saint Mary's graduate, Ryan's been watching Bookstore since early in his high school career, counting down the days until he could compete. 
"My brothers are the ones 
that give me a 
hard time about 
for a camp it," Ryan said.
"In my mind, we have
for pro ''like I should be a prospects in the top guys in all RecSports athlete California. five positions. " of the year, but 
"It makes it I'm not quite var­a totally dif­sity athlete mate­
Dan Reidy
ferent kind of rial." game with­Five Reasons Ryan had 
out having Hans," said Check Your Head's Aaron Crall. "They were just a lot bigger than us. Size was a big factor because most of the shots they got were tip-ins or off of rebounds." 
Heidy, Dan Lustig and Kevin Muempfer all came to Five Heasons from the dismantled Franchise team. The three Franchise transfers were bas­ketball junkies, the guys seen every afternoon playing pick­up games at Rolfs. With Franchise's best player Steve Craig gone to graduation, they began scouting out replace­ments in the fall, hoping to put together a championship-

another request 
for the team ­his roommate Paul Raih, a 6-8 Irish Guard member who missed Bookstore last year while studying in London. Raih made Check Your Head pay last night, as his younger brother, John, was a sopho­more on the other team. 
"Today's his birthday, too," said Paul Raih. "I had to beat him up on his birthday." 
Five Reasons has been beat­ing teams up all tournament long. 
"We've scrimmaged against the top teams," Lustig said, "and we know what's ahead of us. I haven't known one per­son who we've played against 
Women's Final Four 
Slappy's All Stars Hardcore ... I 5 
I Sunday 12:30 
5 Girls ... 
Hoopers 
4 7 
Happy Zlst Luke• Mr. Saturday Night! 
Love., Mom., Dad., Carrie and Mac 
so far." 
Reidy, a senior, is a midsi:le player who can hit from inside or outside. He's gotten more than his share of time in scouting out his competition as a head Bookstore Commissioner. 
Lustig, a 6-4 sophomore, brings an inside presence to the team. The Irish Guardsman from Alexandria, Ind .. turned down a host of offers from Division II and Ill basketball programs to come to Notre Dame. ft wasn't a dif­ficult choice. 
"I'm the sixth one in my family to come here." said Lustig, who is the sixth of nine children. 
Muempfer, a junior and the team's point guard, took his playing beyond Rolfs this year. lie practiced against the Notre Dame women's basketball team, along with No. 2 Versatility"s 

Division II or m school. 
"My dad and my sister came here," said Muempfer. "That's the only application I filled out 
was Notre 

Chris Dillon. The daily grind kept  "I think. personally, the tournament is up/or  Dame." So far. it looks like Five  
Muempfer's game at a  grabs from here on out. "  Heasons has put together  
peak. "If  their  Dan Lustig  the team  dream of the  
starting  Five Reasons  tournament  - 
team played  Check  Your  
Bookstore,"  Head  was the  
Muempfer  first  team  to  

said of the women, "I think score more than five points on they'd be a teen seed proba­Five Reasons. The team to bly. They're really good." beat still considers the tour­
Muernpfer, like Lustig, chose ney wide open, though. to follow a family tradition of "I think, personally, the attending Notre Dame rather tournament is up for grabs than play basketball for a from here on out," said Lustig. 
THE 

WHOPPER SAYS:™ 
LET'S MAKE AMEAL. 



Now for 99¢ you can get fries and a COKE® when you buy a WHOPPER® Sandwich. 
Come into BURGER KING® today and enjoy a medium order of crispy, golden brown fries, and an ice-cold medium soft drink for just 99¢ when you order a delicious flame-broiled WHOPPER~ 
In The Land Of Burgers, WHOPPER® Is King. 
For a limited time only. Price and participation may vary (Pub set restaurant identification here.J TM & @ 2001 Burger King Brands. Inc. All lights reserved. 

Friday, April 27, 200 I 
The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
BASEBALL 
Top-ranked Irish look to bounce back against Red Storm 

BRIAN PUCEVICH/The Observer Notre Dame junior Steve Stanley sprints down the first base llne during a game last week. Stanley was named the Big East Player of the 


. . . . 

-StudentLeases Available ·· · -4 Blocks From Camplls>
. . . 

ONLY A FEW r;~il:l(~;fiiiiit 
YOUR APARTMENT TOD.lil•:•i: t 
''The Best•••·Value··1n•···Ofi~i~~bs••t.i~ir,a!:••.••·····•··•··· 
Prqfessionally·•Mam~g~q 9¥ {)' ... >. 
Reat,~\ateM11oa•!!i'iil~ffil~jl,ii.•_!.!.l.ii 

-·-··-;.·:-::.-.:-::;rt:: 
:::·:::.i::'.::-:;:::.<:::{=l{i~}i{~\i(]lititfti(f 
Finals ... done. Graduation ... done. Packing & shipping ... ughl No problem. Call Mall Boxes Etc. 
10am-5pm 
277-6245 
Moll BoKes Etc. SR 23 &lronwOOd 2 blocks eost of N.D. Free Pick-ops p/ltdt• eal altllOdalflrlH' ta schodul• appolnlmont 


By JEFF BALTRUZAK 
Assistant Sports Editor 
The No. 1 Irish enter this weekend's series against St. John's on a losing note, hav­ing dropped the second game in a doubleheader with Valparaiso on Wednesday night at Eck Stadium. That loss snapped Notre Dame's nation-leading 16-game winning streak. 
Even after the loss, the Irish boast an offense that is clicking after sputtering early and a pitching staff as dominant as ever. With just nine games left on its Big East schedule, the team looks to take a bite out of the Big Apple this weekend in a three game series against conference foe St. John's in Jamaica, N.Y. 
Notre Dame has made this year's Big East race look like a 100-meter dash between Michael Johnson and Al Roker, as the Irish have raced out to a five game lead over the Scarlet Knights of Rutgers and the Red Storm. 


"If we can have good suc­cess this weekend, it would be possible to clinch the reg­ular season Big East title at home against Connecticut, which would be nice for the home fans," said Irish head coach Paul Mainieri. 
The Irish feature the Big East player and pitcher of the week in Steve Stanley and Danny Tamayo. Stanley was recognized for an 8-for­14 performance last week and his first career home run. 
Tamayo earned his honors with an eight-inning outing against Villanova on April 21 where he held a no-hitter until tho seventh stanza. Tamayo, a senior from Miami, was one of the play­ers Mainieri singled out as someone who needed made a considerable impact on this year's squad. Mainieri also noted the accomplish­ments of freshman Steve Sollmann, who leads the team in batting average and homeruns. 
"Danny has given us a dominant second starter," said Mainieri. "Steve Sollmann had been very consistent, he's hit in the clutch. he's hit for power. They've been the big differ­ence in us taking the next step up." 
That next step up for the Irish has been the spotlight of being ranked No. 1, with all the prestige and annoy­ances of an honor the pro­
gr am  has  never  experi­ 
enced.  
Mainieri  isn't  worried  

about any ill effects from Wednesday's home loss to Valparaiso. 
"Our players are smart enough to know that any­thing can happen in a game," said Mainieri. 'Tm really proud how we've han­dled the No. 1 ranking." 
More importantly, with the program's new status comes a very good possibility of hosting a NCAA regional on May 25-27. "We're in the stretch run," said Mainieri. "We're in a great position in the conference, and also nationally." 
The Red Storm enters the weekend series at McCallen Field with a 2 5-15 record (13-7 in conference play). St. John's defeated Pace 11-3 at home, Wednesday. 
The Irish are ready to hit the road . 
"We're upbeat, positive, and excited right now," said Mainieri. 
I I 
l 

-
uve Brotherhood. 
As a Brother in the Congregation of Holy Cross you will share in a rich tradition of unselfish service and become a brother to many. 
For more infonnation about beginning a new life as a Brother of Holy Cross, contact Br. Donald Gibbs, C.S.C. 
P.O. Box 460, Notre Dame, IN 46556 e-mail: dgibbs@hcc-nd.edu (219),251-2222 

MEN'S GOLF 
Irish to participate in Big East tournaillent 


Special 10 The Observ.,, 
The Notre Dame men's golf 
team will look to extend it's 
season when the Irish travel to 
East Providence, R.I., this 
weekend to participate in the 
Big East Golf Championship at 
Metacomet Country Club. On 
the line for the tournament 
champion is the Big East's 
automatic bid to the NCAA 
Division I Championships, 
which begin with regionals the 
weekend of May 17-19. 
The Irish, the tournament's No. 3 seed, will play a practice round on the par 70, 6,464­yard course today. The two­day, 54-hole event begins on Saturday at 8 a.m. with 36 holes, followed by the final 18 holes of play on Sunday. Notre Dame has won Big East titles in 1995, 1996 and 1997 since joining the conference in 1995, while finishing second in 1998 and third last season. 
Coach George Thomas' team heads into the tournament playing its best golf of the spring, as it finished in a third place tie in last weekend's First Energy Intercollegiate tourney at Kent State. The (rish finished the rain-shortened tournament just one stroke out of second after firing a 36-hole total of 585. 
The Irish come into the tour­nament with two of the top players in the Big East in Alex Kent and Steve Ratay. Both played in last year's Big East Championship. Kent leads the Irish with a 74.00 average for the spring and has a 73. 96 average for the entire season. His best finish this season came at the Legends of Indiana Intercollegiate during the fall where he finished fourth with a six-under par total of 210 (67­71-72}. Kent has been Notre 

Dame's top finisher in three of 
the team's five tournaments 
this spring. He finished fifth in 
last year's Big East 
Tournament with a three-over 
par 145 (77-68). 

Ratay has a 74.31 average for 
the and for the year leads the 
team with a 73.96 average. 
Ratay is coming off his best fin­

ish of the spring as he tied for 
second at the First Energy 
Intercollegiate with a two-over 
par 142. During the fall, he tied 
for first at the Wisconsin 
Invitational with a four-under 
212. Last season, Ratav finished in a tie for ninth at the Big East Championship with a five-over par total of 147 on Notre Dame's Warren Golf Course. 
Another Irish golfer with Big East experience is sophomore Kyle Monfort. He played in the 1998 tournament before sitting out last season. As a freshman, Monfort finished in fourth place with a 10-over par 152 at the TPC Course at Avenel. Monfort has a 75. 77 average for the season with his best finish com­ing at the Kepler Intercollegiate at Ohio State where he finished 19th with a 10-over par 226. 
A pair of Texans round out the Notre Dame lineup. Senior Pat Schaffler stepped into the lineup in the fall and has given the Irish consistent scoring all season long as 19 of the 22 rounds he's played have been counted towards the team score. He owns a 76.92 average for the fall and a 76.45 mark for the season in the eight tour­naments he's played. 
Sophomore Brandon Lunke saw his first action of the spring last week at Kent State and turned in his best rounds of the season as he tied for fifth with a three-over par 143. For the year, Lunke has appeared in five tournaments and has a 
76.21 average. 
OPENS THIS WEEK! 
Don't miss this funny yet touching Broadway musical! 

Thursday 
April 26th at 8 p.m . 
• 

-Friday 
April 27th at 8 p.m . 
• 
Saturday 
April 28th at 8 p.m . 
• 
Sunday 
April 29th at 2:30 p.m. • 
Saint Mary's College O'Laughlin Auditorium 
IMtfifiV<;_~ THE ARTS 
~NOTREOAME, IN 
For ticket information contact the Saint Mary's Box Office at 
284-4626 

STUDENT ORGANIZED LECTURE 
Professor Michael Sherry, distinguished historian from Northwestern University, will speak on the topic -· 
"DON'T ASK, DON'T TELL'': 
The Great Debate on Gays-in-the-Military 1993-4 
All are invited. Q & A to follow 
Monday, April 30 
7:00 pm Lafortune Ballroom 
Sponsored by the History Department, Knott Hall, the Student Union, the University Standing Committee for Gay and Lesbian Needs, College Democrats and College Republicans 

THURSDAY MAY 3: OPEN 6:30AM CLOSE 10:00PM FRIDAY MAY 4: OPEN 6:30AM CLOSE 3:00AM SATURDAY MAYS: OPEN 10:00AM CLOSE 3:00AM SUNDAY MAY 6: OPEN 1:00PM CLOSE 3:00AM 
10:00pm FREE LATE NIGHT SNACKS!Ul 
page 18  The Observer . SPORTS  Friday, April 27, 200 I  

Friday, April 27, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
MEN'S LACROSSE 
No. 4 Notre Dame prepares for final regular season match 

ByJOE LICANORO 
Sports Writer 
With a six-game winning streak, an 11-1 record and the No. 4 national ranking, the Notre Dame men's lacrosse team has had an incredible regular season, but it's not over yet. 
There's one more regular­season game to play. 
After a one-game road trip to Fairfield last weekend, the Irish will have an opportunity to close out their final regular season with a win when they take on Harvard at home this weekend before heading into NCAA tournament play. If the [rish win on Saturday, they will have the highest regular­season winning percentage in the history of Notre Dame men's lacrosse. 
While winning the NCAA tournament is their ultimate goal, the Irish realize that 
they cannot look past Harvard. 
"Harvard is an excellent team." said Notre Dame coach Kevin Corrigan. "We're not worried about the NCAA tour­nament yet. Our onl~ concern right now is preparing to play Harvard on Saturday." 
While the Irish have feasted on their Great Western Lacrosse League divisional foes in their recent games, Harvard, coming from the traditionally tough Ivy League, will be a good test for the Irish. 
Although Harvard's record is a modest 6-6, they should provide the Irish good prepa• ration for the NCAA tourna­ment. 
"Harvard is a very good team," he said. "They beat Duke, and Duke just won the ACC tournament last week so we're not taking them light­ly." 
For the 11 seniors on the 
team, Saturday's game marks the end of a remarkable four years. Despite being a Midwest school in a predomi­nantly East Coast sport, the Irish seniors are responsible for elevating Notre Dame to one of the best lacrosse teams in the country. The game will be especially bittersweet for Corrigan because this is his last chance to coach the seniors in a regular season game. 
"These guys have been out­standing over the last four years," said Corrigan. "They are a great group of kids. I'm going to miss them on so many levels. I'll certainly miss coaching them, but I'll m'iss them as people even more." 
Notes 

. Senior attack and all-time 
Notre  Dame  assist  leader  
David  Ulrich  was  named  
Great  Western  Lacrosse  

League player of the week. Ulrich scored four goals and added nine assists to lead the Irish to wins over Butler and Fairfield. Ulrich joins team­mates Kirk Howell and Tom Glatzel as the third Irish play­er to win this award this year. 
Call 1-4543 to write Sports 
,1R~~~i~~~{5~ 
APARTMENTS 


Now Renting 1 & 2 Bedroom Homes 
KERASOTESTHEATRES 
SHOWPLACE I C5 
Starting at $466.00
450W. Chippewa 299-6063 

Gourmet Kitchens, Spacious Closets, Laundry Facilities, Indoor Swimming Pool, Exercise Room & Party Rooms Located on Bus Line Minutes from Downtown, Universities & Shopping View our Model Daily Mon .. Fri .. 9 .. 6 Saturday .. 10 .. 6 Sunday , Noon .. 4 3001 East Jefferson Blvd. South Bend, IN 46615 219-232-3333 www.parkjefferson.com 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, April 27, 200 I 
Lazy Boyz 
continued from page 24 

Walz. Matt Fox. Dave Yeager. Dan Boston and Ditch, took an early lead on the favorites. 
The crowd was almost evenly divided between the two teams. with both sides receiving vocal support. Dan Boston's block fired up the LazyBoyz supporters and propelled his team to a 7-5 lead. But NDToday, which con­sists of B.J. and Joey Kloska, Todd Titus, M i k e LazyBoyz tied the game at 20 thanks to a Tom Walz free throw. NDToday 
scored to make it 21-20, but that would be their last points of the game. Kloska had a chance to win the game on the free throw line. hut his shot rattled in and out to give LazyBoyz a chance. 
With the score tied at 21, an NDToday turnover gave LazyBoyz a chance to pull ahead. LazyHoyz got the ball to Ditch on the right side of the key where he nailed a 15-footer to 
put LazyBoyz 
ahead 22-21. 

o est e r I e "We didn't have anything 0 n 
and Rob to lose coming into this NDToday's next Joyce. went .. possession
game.

on a run of Ditch stole the their own to ball and headed make the Tom Walz for the 
score l 0-8 layz Boyz LazyBoyz bas­
in their favor. 
Then the momentum turned again, and it was Boston's free throw that sent the game to half­time with LazyBoyz up 11-10. 
The second half featured more of the same disciplined basket­ball. A couple of turnovers by LazyBoyz helped NDToday open a 15-13 lead. Eventually NDToday stretched that lead to 17-14 for the first three-point lead of the game. The teams traded baskets with NDToday in control until the score was 20­18. 
But NDToday just couldn't put the game away. lnstead, 
ket, where he 
was fouled and went to the free throw line. Ditch made the basket that B.J. Kloska couldn't and LazyBoyz walked away with a 23-21 upset. 
"We didn't have anything to lose coming into this game," said Walz. 
In other action Nylon Strokers were able to hold off a late rally by Candy Rain to pull out a 21­19 win. The game was undisci­plined from the start, with nei­ther team hitting their baskets. 
Candy Rain, with Zack Sackley, Chris Mahoney, Luke Hatke, Van Giles and Rocco Piacentino, held a rebounding 
NEED A JOB FOR NEXT YEAR? 
Student Activities has openings for 
r£a.J,.o1Willll Sf.ud,ud tB.uilduuJ 'fJ1.an.a.rpvua 
for the 2001-2002 academic year. 



edge over Nylon, but couldn't use it to their advantage. 
Nylon, with Al Vitter, Brian Oleniczak, Courtney Watson. Chris Conway and Ryan Wood, grabbed an early 2-0 lead and played well enough for an 11-8 halftime edge. 
In the second half Candy start­ed playing a fast break game. They got several turnovers and turned a 14-9 deficit into an 18­17 lead. 

Nylon didn't fold though, and after a Candy turnover, they took a 20-19 lead. Another Candy turnover I.hen allowed for the game winning shot by Oleniczak. 
Nylon got the ball to Oleniczak on the right side, where he drained a game-winning basket from just inside the :-3-point arc. 
"I was just thinking to shoot with confidence." Olcniczak said. "We aren't a big team, so we had to compensate for their [Candy Rain's] size." 

6th Annual 
-40,.,.1Institute for 
l,w Spiritual Leadership 
AUGUST 20-21, 2001 LAKESIDE, MICHIGAN 
Discover God's call in your leadership role and join a living network where you are connected with others, no longer alone. 
Workshops include: 
. 
Christian Service 

. 
Teach Us to Pray 

. 
Retreat Ministry 

. 
Many Faces of God: Multicultual Expressions of Spirituality 


Open and free to all Saint Mary's students, faculty, administration and staff. 
Come to an informational meeting May 1 or May 2 at 5:00 PM in the North Wedge Room, Noble Family Dining Hall, or call 284-5391 to register! -ffi­Questions? 
Call Saint Mary's 

SAINT Space is limited, so 
Campus Ministry 
NIARY'S 
at 284-5391

COLLEGE Register by May 11, 2001!
NOTRE DAME, IN 


The Development Phone Center gratefully acknowledges those who have supported its student
NOTRE DAME 
ANNUAL 
F U N D 

caller incentive program. 


Barnaby's Bed Bath & Beyond Between the Buns Bonnie Doon Ice Cream Corp. Catalina's Trattoria Cosimo and Susie's ­
11 A Bit of Italy" Doc Pierce's Drive & Shine Carwash, Lube, 
and Detail Center Ehninger Florist Fortune House Hi-Speed Auto Wash Illusions Ja'Ross Salon & Day Spa Juday Creek Golf Course K's Grill & Pub K's Merchandise 
Macri's Deli 

Michael & Company Salon 
Molly McGuire's 
Old Country Buffet 
Osco Drug #421 
Patricia Ann Florist Quizno's Classic Subs Ritter's Frozen Custard 
Samuel Mancino's Italian Eatery 
South Bend Regional Museum of Art 
Ten Thousand Villages 
United Limo, Inc. 
University Amoco 
liker Cleaners and Uniform Rental 
Zolman Tire and Service Center 
page 21

Friday, April 27, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS 
Verzatility 
continued from page 24 
star player. couldn't find his scoring touch. Wolbeck would never quite get his rhythm, scoring only two points the entire contest. 
Still. the Majestic s • 
took on the eighth seeded Diaper Dandies in the most well attended contest of the evening, and the two teams didn't disap­point as Mayhem won 21-19. From the opening possession it was clear both teams featured very athletic players, when the Dandies' Jerome Collins skied for a rebound over three mem­bers of Project 

C o r e y "The whole game was Mayhem. Hartmann hit B u t
getting rough right from 

two outside Mayhem
the beginning, but that's would prove

shots to keep to be more
the game Bookstore." close, and efficient Verzatility shooters. 
Hunt Hanover

had several Jason Mayes weak trips Verzatility was consis­
down the floor. 
As the teams settled into the flow of the game, it became clear that neither squad was gun-shy about playing rough. 
"The whole game was getting rough, right from the begin­ning. but that's Bookstore," Hanover said. 
Verzatility held an 11-8 half­time lead, and went on a run early in the half for a 14-9 tally. playing to an increasingly loud crowd. The teams started to exchange foul shots, but Verzatility's defense began to hold, and Kevin Murphy of Verzatility hit several clutch shots as the fourteen seed grad­ually put the game away. 
Wolbeck had a laundry list of 
things that the Majesties didn't 
do during the game. 
"We played like sh*t," said Wolbeck after the game. "We didn't execute, we didn't rebound, we didn't get back on defense, they outplayed us." 
Ninth-seeded Project Mayhem tently fed the 
ball and con­sistently scored, and Brian Rush and Doug Wilson were reliable on the inside. 
But the Dandies athleticism would keep the game close. 

Abe Elam found his scoring stroke late in the game. He had five points overall. 
"We know where each other are going to be. we played well as a team," said Wilson. 
Wilson believes that fatigue played a role in the game, with several. of the Dandies players competing after football prac­tice. 
"I think the fact that they were coming back from prac­tice, they were a little tired help us out run them a little bit," said Wilson. "We were a little quicker." 
The twin towers of former varsity player Tony Carney and Grant Gholsen took advantage of their size and guard Steve Byrnes had a strong outing as the seventh-seeded Freeballers took out 10th-seeded Strategery 21-14. 
The Freeballers took control 
early, as Carney and Gholsen 
were fed the 
ball consis­

Quarterback  "We should have had the  tently, and  
turned point guard Carlyle  game.  Byrnes knocked  
Holiday show­ down sever­ 
cased his court  Carlyle Holiday  al  outside  
talents, chalking  Diaper Dandies  buckets. The  

up eight points. Holiday repeat­edly slashed through the lane past Luke Mueller of Mayhem . 
"We should have had the game," said Holiday. "We didn't rebound well today." 
But Holiday did not shut down Mueller on the offensive end. Mueller had four points at key junctures in the game. 
Project Mayhem lead the whole game, and either team was always within striking dis­tance of a game-winning run. The Dandies kept it close when 
Freeballers 

were equally tenacious on the defensive end. 
"Our guards were just domi­nating," said Carney. "Steve played great." 
The Freeballers cruised to a 11-5 halftime advantage, but Strategery tightened their defense, lessening the Freeballers' dominance inside. 
"They were tough inside," Carney said. "They had some long arms." 
Byrnes was the late game star, playing inspired defense. 
Round of 8 Bracket 
5 Reasons Versatility 2 
5: I 5 pm Freeballers 


7 
Nylon Strokers 
6 
4:30 pm Lazv Bo:yz 

13 14 
Bookstore Basketball Results, April 26 
Lazyboyz def. NDToday.com, 23-21 Project Mayhem def. Diaper Dandies, 21-19 Verzatility def. Majesties, 21-13 Freeballers def. Strategery, 21-14 5 Reasons Your Girl Left You def. Check Your Head, 21-7 Versatility def. Killer Boots, Man, 21-19 Please Call Us Bosephus def. 5 Degree Guarantee, 21-16 Nylon Stokers def. Candy Rain, 21-19 
Do you drive Italian? 

.. 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, April 27, 2001 
By reclaiming his role as the team's No. 1 starter, Heilman allowed several 
Heil01an 

younger pitchers to develop and gain 
continued from page 24 
this year because they want to show 
that they arc just as committed to 
him." 
The big senior has definitely made the most out of his decision to remain in South Bend. Heilman. who has won 20 of his last 21 decisions, is 10-0 this year with the nation's fifth-best ERA at 1.32. 
So far this season, he has captured the Big East career records for wins and strikeouts. If he continues to pitch well, Heilman will own many other Notre Dame pitching records as well. 
His 38-7 career record is just two wins shy of the all-time mark of 40 set by Tom Price from 1991-94. Ileilman's career EHA is only .13 higher than the record mark of 2.36 set by Nick Palihnich from 1959-61. 
"He's definitely a great pitcher. We always feel like we can win when Aaron is on the mound," said Mainieri. "In my mind. he may go down as the best baseball player in Notre Dame history." 
Heilman, who likely stands to become only I.he 17th athlete at Notre Dame to be a four-time All American. is not content with just his past suc­cess. Make no mistake -he came back for his senior year to win. 
"Playing in the tournament last year and hosting a regional a couple of years ago were great experiences for me," said Heilman. "Being ranked No. 1 this week has probably been the highlight of my career so far, but I have a feeling that the best times are still to come." 
lleilman's return to Notre Dame will last far beyond his final season. While next year he will be playing profes­sionally, the Irish will still feel the ben­efits of his decision to remain. 

experience before being tossed into 
the fire. 

Next year, when these pitchers step into the spollight thcmsdves, they will have an extra year of pitching under their belts. In the meantime, these younger pitchers will have benefited from learning under one of the game's best players. 
"Life will go on next year without him because he has laid such a great foundation for us for years to come," said Mainieri. "'He has been a great leader and teacher to the younger guys by helping them to develop as players." 
Mainicri believes what makes Heilman the special player he has become is not merely his talent -it is his personality and the way he leads his team. Even as a perennial All­American and nationally recognized ace, Heilman has never let his fame inflate his ego. 
"Ile is one of the most unselfish players J have ever coached," said Mainicri. ''So many guys feel they should be treated specially because they have talent, but Aaron has never been like that. Be is the type of player that leads by example. He is always giving advice to younger players, rak­ing the mound after games and prac­tice and doing whatever he can to help out the team." 
Jn Heilman, the Irish have every­thing a team could want in a pitcher and captain. He has the talent to dom­inate any hitter, the poise take over a game and the personality to lead any team to a national title. 
Mainieri sums up the Irish leader very well as he boasts with pride, "He is the type of player and person that you only get to coach once in a life­time, and I feel very fortunate to have that opportunity now." 
Since deciding to return for his senior season, Aaron Heilman h.as been the sparkplug on the Irish pitching staff Above, Heilman pitches during a 7-1 win against Villanova. At right, Heilman throws while pitcher Danny Tamayo and Brian O'Connor look on. 
. 

photos by 
BRIAN PUCEVICH and TIMKACMAR 
Concession
TODAY 

stand w/
SOUTH 

FREESNOW 
QUAD! 

CONES 

HERE IS A LIST OF ALL WHO HAVE SIGNED UP AS OF THURSDAY MORNING AND ARE ELIGIBLE TO BE JAILED 
Becki Braunlee Dlll\&uem Eric Hedih Joe Mathews Keith Howell Lindsay Lut,: MeganHomez Peter Kim Thomas JSilio Adam Ke.pacillskas D1111Bmsmer John Dee Keith R.auenbuehl.er LisaLachky Meg&n John5on Philip Trilble 
Becky Klein Erik.Oswdi TimDysm Ally Specht Ben Faurote DanO'Connell Fnmco F111\ucci JobnF~ Kelle Kilgmill' Lisa PelVllllVis Meredith Druesmith Philip Wittliff 
Tim McFadden Kelly Keegan Li,: Fallon Micheiel Messina Rachael Protzman
Alyse Latour Be?Mld Craig Daniel Johnston Geny Olinger John Hudson Tim RuggaberLuis u,e MlkePfaff Rebecca WeisemeigerDmell Campbell Gff@: Ruehlmann JobnMooze Kevin McComrick
ADllllDII. Lehmarm Betsy L=eri 
Timmy Giattinat 

JohnSadowski Kevin Zeller Luke Stonkosky Molly Janicki fuclwdKnoxBetsy Stozey Dsvid Norton G.regSmith
Amir Tah!'llassebi 
T.J. Mathieson

BillFemira Dsvid Retchless Jebari Holloway Johnny Dias Kristin Hennessy Maestro Kheriarty MorucaGo Robert Sullivun 
Andrea Gonza}es Tom Nichol

Bi:eimll Dowdsll Dsvid Solomon JackiBoMgUIU Jonathan Currie KristinKmg Mnggie Donohue N1111Cy Miller RyanM11m 
Andree. Kimrik 

Brian Moscona Dsvid Yeager JackieColve Juvelrio C. Pem: Kristin Kro11Se Meggie MacDonald NickKheri Ryan Sha,igbnessy Tom Quinlin Andrew Menllelewski Nick. MestmllaJdi. S61eem Ismail
Brooke Norton DevmRyan James Weechter K~BroW!l Kristy Robinson Mm:os Sose. Tomm.yW8lz 
AJmewO:ros:z Carl Vess Donald Wo,;hell Jamieuim.HS Kat Ketllle Lacey Ha11SS8fflen Mftlia Maron Nicole Bonk SaJab Finnllne 
Tony Znsowski An:lrew Syski Cmiisle D'Souie DongHyupHa l8S011 McFarley Kate Walter l.a1111l Bastedo MariaronaSeih Nico.le fuidgeis Saiah.Fmimie 
Trip Foley Alliy Mayle Carmen Tudela Doug&Iglll8lUI JeffSnuw Kathryn Aroeison Lau.ru.Weili,r MaiyC!am Nicole Straw SuahR.esch 
Vidal I8I11Mr P~

l(m,Cole!'t1811 Lauien Simmons MBJY Swnykus Nina Whittacl<er SemhScidel
Cecilia Hadley Doug Boigmmm JeffStuff~
Angela Crimboli 
Willillm Kolman

Celme McCol'!llille Doiiglas Milrr Jesse Fa Katie DiSipio UWl!ll Wegi,er Me.ttMulka Olga Ud>Jeta SooHanPati 
AMMar:ieM~ 

F.d PI11S111cki Kati!, Farley Lauren While Matt Y1111g Pat Shea Stefan Borovina Zac Perry
Cl:wlMcT~ J-eNonnan

.Anme Molll?\Ski prof. R. Smith 
Ch.ed Silken Ed Wasilewski Jessi Stanlu>s Kati!, Mahoney Loch Malito Matthew Stecnl:mg Paul Sbepord Stephmli,e Maicus 
Justin Brandon 

Katy Delaney Leslie Amt Alrlridge Me.-m,,en Borbely Paulo JavierTGborga St-Tschane
Chris McColll'ICll ElameE!lis Jesllli D.Bnvo Meg Smith PeteMan:h Terell& Do
Chris"lop~t Fuchs Elizweth ltt Jill Fillpontz Katy Hall l...i,byC~ 
Peter Kenny TeuyCollconm
FACULTY 

Courtnoy Cuuideo Elizabeth Nolte Jim Kissel Katy Wehbacber U:iby McCord MagValadie 
.,, 
& STAFF STUDENT~

IT IS NOT TOO LATE TO SIGN UP!!! Just come to the Habitat stand 
$20 

on South Quad between 1 pm and 6pm or sign up at www.nd.edu/,...,habitat $5 
CROSSWORD  
ACROSS  30 Part of a sitcom  54 Deep blue  
1 Spark 10 Up 15 It may have subtitles nowadays 16 Conversation piece 17 Comparison for some minds 18 Dividing walls  sign-off 31 1984 skating gold medalist Gustafson 32 Some exercises 34 Favor 37 Future ovum 38 Anticipating 40 Mild complaint 41 Guffaw  55 Pro 57 Depression phenomenon 59 Sensation 60 "Sugar Babies" co-star 61 Sondheim collaborator on "Gypsy" 62 Prepares  
19 Carry 20 Like tears 22 Seaman's reference 23 Describes 25 "Pay_ mind" 26 First name in design  42 Start over on the farm 44 Footwear, informally 47 Attacks riotously 48 Moments 49 Condition 51 Southwestern language  DOWN 1 Push 2 Capable 3 Start of a lover's request 4 Primp 5 "Dog Day Afternoon" character  
27 Cannes heat? 28 Lingoes  52 Get to work on Time  6 Does loops and knots  
7 Call up to  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  answer charges  
L K A •  8 Classic theater name  Puzzle by Rich Norrie  
1 OLE 9Access N E t 10 Stained glass locale, perhaps 11 Seaman's reference 12 Not well­ 29 Compunction 31 "There's more for your life" sloganeer 33 Homed critters 34 Flap covers  44 1898 battle site 45 Suggested 46 Waldorf salad ingredient 50 England's renowned_  52 Hardly seen 53 Caps on the Clyde 56 Calendar abbr. 58 Person in  
balanced  35 Drawing contest  Orchestra  command: Abbr.  
13 Revolutionary 1983 creation 14 Get excited over? 21 Love, in a way 24 Put away ..,...,-+,..+:+:-t--i-::+S:-t 26 Pass  36 Wintergreen fruit 39 Strapped-on item 40 Rocket maneuver 43 Games expert John  Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420·5656 (9~ per minute). Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS .  

Friday, April 27, 2001 page 23
The Observer . TODAY 
... 
TOM KEELEY

FOURTH AND INCHES 

OF.MAND 
MEAT ON 
LENTEN 
BILLAMEND

Fox TROT 
e2001 M-.:1 /~ti,.........,_'Pr...&~ 

WE flfllD ADULT SUPERVISION HOW HIGtH ovEI? THE STIFLES OUR Mt FORCE BASE 01D YOU NATURAL WANT To SEND THESE? CREAirv1TY. 
TYLER

THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 

So wneo o.re. 1;1ou Tno.t j 01<,e. n(.ver <301n'3 to st~t .5-\ud'j1V"I~? <3e.t~ o\d. 
~ 
• 


Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The -· Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
....
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name ______________________ 
Address ___________________ 
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON projects will turn into a worth­
IBIS DAY: Lionel Hampton, Jes­while venture as long as you don't sica Lange, Ryan O'Neal, Toller try to expand too quickly. 000 Cranston, Mauricio Gugelmin, VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Luther Vandross, Cannen Electra, Make changes to your environ­Joey Lawrence ment. You need to forus on what 
Happy Birthday: Put your will bring you the satisfaction vou 
good memory to work for you. require. Rid yourself of bad habits Draw on your past experience, and nonproductive people. 000 and you will spiral in a positive, LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22):
promising direction. The more Choose your activities carefully. If straightforward you are, the you take part in intellectual more allies you will win. The games, you will meet individuals work you do with others will who can entice you. You're in the bring you recognition, last mood for love, so set the stagefriendships and the highest and be prepared to play. 0000 
rewards. Your numbers: 18, 23, SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):27, 34, 38, 42 
Make plans to do things with ARIES (March 21-April 19): children or to be involved in out­
You'll feel anxious if someone you door activities. Travel will be in trusted has not been completely your best interests, but be careful honest with you. Channel your not to overspend. 00000 energy into hobbies and personal SAGITD\RIUS {Ncrn 22-Dec. 21): interests. It's time to do things Someone you live with will be that make you happy. 000 impossible to get along with. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't try to deal with important A secret love affair will play havoc issues or make changes that will with your heart. Think before you upset your household. Make jump into a situation that is emo­plans to go out with friends. 00 tionally devastating. Save your CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19):heart and put your energy into Changes in your home will be 
self-improvement. 00 hectic but beneficial. Don't count 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): on much help from those youDon't let your peers talk you live with. Too much stress will into spending more than you result in disagreements. Do the 
planned. Catch up on correspon­work yourself. 00 dence that is long overdue. Make AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): sure that the groups you join Group activities will lead to have the same beliefs. 00 romantic opportunities. Don't let 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): relatives know your intentions. 
You aren't seeing your position They are not likely to agree with clearly. Step back and reassess your plans and may even cause your motives and your direction. delays or setbacks. 0000 It's time to consider your future PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): plans and exactly who and what VISit friends or relatives who have 
fits into them. 00000 been confined. You need time to 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You think about your future direction can sell your ideas to those who and to make both professional can supply the financial backing and personal changes. Don't be that you need. Small-business afraid to make moves. 000 
Birthday Baby: You'll be on the go and forever searching for love, adventure and financial independence. You have strong willpower and drive, which will ensure your success. You are daring, outgoing and entertauung. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
<C 2001 Universal Press Syndicate 



Last Stand 
The men's lacrosse team hosts Harvard this weekend in its final home game. 
pages 19

PORTS 
O
THE page 24 BSERVER Friday, April 27, 200 I 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXX 
Upsets shake up Sweet 16 
. Verzatility, Project Mayhem advance in tourney 
By JEFF BALTRUZAK Assistant Sporrs Editor 
Bookstore showcases the top basketball talent at Notre Dame outside the Joyce Center. but at the Stepan courts, hustle and desire count for as much as anything. 
Such was the case in See Also 13th-seeded 
Verzatility's "Bosephus won't 21-13 upset be overlooked against 
this time" 

fourth-seeded Majesties. In page 14 a game where play­ers got familiar with the con­crete, former varsity walk-on Hunt Hanover led his squad past a bigger, but not taller Majesties team. 
"We played tough," said Hanover. "Our defense was awesome we held them for a while at 13, and we hit our free throws." 
Verzatility controlled the tempo early, grabbing rebounds right and left, as Matt Wolbeck, the Majestic's 
see VERZATILilY/page 21 


. No. 14 Lazy Boyz shocks No. 3 NDToday.com 
By MATT ORENCHUK 
Sports Writer 

When Jason Ditch was a freshman at Marian High School, the person he looked up to on the Marian basketball team was B.J. Kloska. 
"I look up to B.J.," said Ditch. "He is one of the greatest play­ers to come out of Marian. I wanted to be just like him in high school." 
Fast-forward four years. 

Kloska is now a senior at Notre Dame and leading his NDToday.com squad into the sweet 16 of Bookstore Basketball. Standing in the way was Ditch and the unseeded LazyBoyz. 
But after LazyBoyz' 23-21 upset, it was Kloska who found himself looking up from the bot­tom of the scoreboard at Ditch. 
The game was hard fought to the final point, with crisp pass­ing and disciplined play for both teams. 
The game had a quick tempo. with both teams making good on their first several baskets. LazyBoyz. which consists of Tom 
see LAZY BOYZ/page 20 

BASEBALL 
Heilman provides the spark for Irish success 
chance to play one more year with his 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Irish teammates. 
Sports Wtiter 

"I really wanted to come back for my last year and get my degree," said 
Late last summer the Notre Dame Heilman, the two-time Irish captain. "I baseball team got a taste of Christmas knew I'd be coming back to a strong rather early. team with a bunch of great guys, and I 
No, it wasn't forced wanted to be a part of it for one more 
to practice in the snow See Also season." 
because of a freak "Top-ranked It seems that Heilman's return has 
South Bend summer been the spark needed to ignite Notre
Irish look to

blizzard. Instead, the Dame to national prominence in base­team received a gift -bounce back ball. The No. 1 Irish currently hold the a big gift. nation's best record at 37-6-1 and own
against Red 

In fact, it was a 6-the lowest team ERA at 2.55.
Storm"

foot-5 225-pound gift "Aaron's return this year has meant in the form of three­page 17 everything to us," said Irish head coach t.ime All-American Paul Mainieri. "Coming back for his 
.,. pitcher Aaron senior season has made a stronger state­Heilman. ment about his belief in this team than Heilman, who was drafted by the anything I could imagine. It provided a Minnesota Twins over the summer in the great boost of confidence to everyone on first round, postponed a hefty signing bonus and a major league contract for a 
.see HEILMAN/page 22 


• 
Baseball Men's Lacrosse Football at St. John's vs. Harvard Blue-Gold Game 
SPORTS 

Saturday -Sunday Saturday, l p.m. Saturday, l :30·p.m.
ATA 

~ 
Rowing Women's Tennis ,llli Men's Golf at Big East Challenge at Alma 'Ill' at Big East Championsihp
GLANCE ·fxl· 
Saturday -Sunday Saturday, l p.m. Saturday-Sunday
• 


._·,.· ·';_,:·•'' ·,· :.:.·~·•·; ~ 
,c·,,.., .• .~.· .·• ;:.. : f : :;, ;,
';~,; 
.. 
page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, April 27, 2001 
Blue-Gold game features less football, more fun 

We met. for the first time, by accident, about a half-hour prior to last year's Hlue-Gold game. 
While waiting for an elevator that would stop at the third floor ofthe Stadium press box, I spoke with another writer. 
"Not exactly the way I want to spend my Saturday afternoon," the scribe said. 
Poor guy. 
What a 
tough gig. Receiving free admission to the nation's most famous college football shrine, watching the Irish scrim­mage, eating free (albeit less than gourmet-quality, probably less than White Castle-quality} food, sitting in a relatively com­fortable, unobstructed 40-yard line seat, and typing a 1,000 word recap sure sounds like an awful experience. 
You hear this all the time. Sportswriters complain more than Frank Costanza. 
Politicians lie. Salesmen bulls*"'*. Sportswriters whine. 
It's part of the job, I guess. 
And this weekend's game brings out the worst in us. 
Why? Because it's a glorified publicity stunt, a tradition that has little significance for next season. Because of injuries, the format will feature one offensive squad against one defensive team for the entire afternoon. Not one of the spectators will understand the complex scoring system. Someone, perhaps Vince McMahon or Jesse "Don't Call Me the Body Anymon~" Ventura, has devised a plan where even the defenders receive "points." Advice: Trust that the coaches won't cheat and frequently check the scoreboard_ 


Also. the game plan will con­sist of roughly 8 percent of the team's full playbook. (Maybe the Irish are scared that Nebraska coaches will rent out one of those planes, attach a 'Suckers!!' sign to its body, fly over the Stadium, and stMI "secrets"?) 
In last year's Blue-Gold game, quarterback Arnaz Battle, who had started only once in his career, said the entire offensive package had eight inside runs, five drop back passes and six play action passes. Pop Warner teams utilize a more detailed scheme. 
Even the head coach down­played the 2000 tilt. 
"I don't know how much we can determine from the outcome of the game, if anything," Bob Davie said after last year's game. "But it was a good day." 
Guaranteed Davie will repeat the same sentence on Saturday. 
But he has a point. 

It will be a good day. It cer­tainly won't be one of the most memorable of games, but a game nonetheless. 
The sports media forgets that a lot of the times. These are games. Games are supposed to be fun. Yet several others will agree with aforementioned writer's assertion. 
I admit it's not the best assign­ment of the year. But let's put some context in here. 
If your biggest complaint revolves around attending a meaningless Notre Dame scrim­mage, then I'm thinking you're not living the hard knock life. 
Roughly 20,000 fans will be in Rockne's House on Saturday. Every single one of' them paid an entrance fee. (I know the stu­dent tickets arc free. Bui I also know four years of' tuition should qualify as having shelled out some cash.) 
Some fans even paid $50 per ticket to sit in the press box. 
And guess what? No one will bicker, before the game, that he or she "must" go to the scrim­mage. 
For those who still have a problem, one simple suggestion_ 
After the scrimmage, the play­ers and coaches stay on the field, autograph merchandise, and interact with fans. Instead of stressing over an impending deadline. look around. Watch as sons and daughters, mothers and sons, journey from player to player, hunting down signatures as if they were keys to a new Ferrari. It's safe to say 97 per­cent will feel privileged to be on the same grass where the likes of Hart, Hornung and lluarte starred on so many memorable Saturday afternoons. 
Maybe then you can appreci­ate your "job." 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

' '>  Thank you 2000 Fightin' Irish Football For a Great Season!! Good Luck & God Bless Our Outgoing Seniors Thanks For the Memories! r--------, r--------,BreadstlxI 1 Large, 1 Topping I I I The Big Spring GameApril 2001 1.99I $8.99 OR I I ICheesestlx Go Blue!2 Large, 2 Topping I 3. 99 II I I w/ any pizza purcha$e1$14.99I I Go Gold!L ________..J L________.J r--------, r--------, Notre Dame Saint Mary's IRISH SPECIAL 271-1177 271-7272I I I II J large 1 topping, I 1 Large Cheese 1I breadstlx, &-2 liter soda I Monday-Thursday 11 am ­1 amI Pizza -$7. 99 I Friday-Saturday 11 am -3 am I $11.99 I I I Sunday Noon ­1 amL_._______..JL--------..J  

Players to watch 
------------------------------------------------. 
Friday, April 27, 2001 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
______J 

Quarterbacks 

According to Bob Davie, Matt LoVecchio will be the starter on opening day at Nebraska. But Davie also said that he will play Carlyle Holiday and Jared Clark regu­larly, maybe even as early as Nebraska. Davie plans to utilize a multiple-quarterback system to begin the year. LoVccchio will take the first snaps in Saturday's scrimmage. The speedy Holiday will probably follow. and the strong-armed Oark will finish the day. 
Running backs 

With Julius Jones unable to partake in spring practice because for suspension and Tony Fisher out with an injury. the door is wide open for Terrance Boward (left) to seize the starting spot. But he could be chal­lenged by Mike McNair, who has had a rather impressive spring. McNair, a highly touted recruit who has never fully devel­oped only logged about 12 minutes of play­ing time last season, has shown consider­able promise in spring practice · He is listed as a fullback, but the coaching staff has also experimented with him in the tailback slot. 
Offensive line 

The big offensive hole to fill is the pair of guard spots vacated by Jim Jones and Mike Gandy. Several players could step up to fill the gap, including Sean Mahan and Ryan Scarola. At tight end. Gary Godsey. who played quarterback for two games last sea­son, and John Owens will replace graduat­ing seniors Jabari Holloway and Dan O'Leary. 
Wide receivers 

David Givens and Javin Hunter are clearly going to be the main receivers. But Arnaz Battle Oeft} has done a remarkable job mak­ing the transition from quarterback to flanker. While he's had trouble learning the routes, Battle has proven to be extremely quick in the open field once he catches the ball. Also, a trio of highly touted rising sophomores, Lorenzo Crawford, Omar Jenkins and Ronnie Rodamer, have made considerable progress during the spring and have shown they are capable of replac­ing Joey Getherall 
Defensive line 

Anthony Weaver (right) and Ryan Roberts are the only two returning members of the defensive line. However, the Irish will get an added boost by the return of Grant Irons. The rising fifth-year senior, who is still recovering from a shoulder injury, will not play Saturday. At the nose guard position, Andy Wisne and Cedric Hilliard are compet­ing to replace Lance Legree. Darrell Campbell will probably fill the gap vacated by B.J. Scott at defensive tackle. 
Linebackers 

With 2000 team MVP Anthony Denman graduating and rising senior Rocky Boiman hampered by injury, the linebacker corps are a thin this spring. Tyreo Harrison earned a lot of playing time this spring, and Carlos Pierre-Antoine also saw quality time on the field. Mike Goolsby. one of only three true freshmen to monogram last season, Patrick Ryan and Courtney Watson have also shown dramatic improvement this spring. 
Secondary 

The biggest question mark for the Irish is the secondary. Brock William's decision to leave early for the NFL hurt the corner­backs greatly. The only other returning cor­nerback is Shane Walton. who hasn't seen much action this spring because of an injury. Most of the playing time has been split between Jason Beckstrom, Clifford Jefferson, and Vontez Duff (right). The fastest man on the team, Duff, is also work­ing with the kickoff return team. At safety, Ron Israel has been injured. and Glenn Earl and Gerome Sapp have seen the most play­ing time. 
Special teams 

Although fans won't see much of the spe­cial teams. the Irish have devoted an exten­sive amount of their spring practice toward this area. Nick Setta will most likely contin­ue as the field goal kicker, and Setta and Joey Hildbold are battling for punting duties. However, Davie doesn't feel the Irish have a solid kickoff man. The primary con• tenders for return spots include Vontez Duff, Julius Jones and Arnaz Battle. 

Chance at Love 

Returns for an encore performance Saturday May 5th in Washington Hall $5 at the door CDs on sale at show 

Notre Dame's Student Written Musical Comedy hits the road for the month of JulyH! Look for us in the f ollowinq cities · 
Bloomington MN, Chicago, South Bend, Warsaw IJ\l, Detriot, Cleveland, 
Pittsburgh, Philadelphia, Boston, Hamden CT, Albany and Long Island NY 

·------------------------­
page4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, April 27, 2001 
Quick on his feet 
Speed, versatility key to quarterbacks game 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Sporrs Editor 
Kevin Hogers said it best. 
"The day and age of the immo­
bile quarterback, the guy with 
cement shoes on. is gone," the 
Irish offensive coordinator said 
all,ir a rncent practice. The mes­
sage is clear. No longer will the 
Irish stand for an immobile 
thrower. The future leaders in 
thn Irish backfield will look more 
like Michael Vick than Ron 
Powlus. 
Enter Carlyle lloliday. 
Tho rising sophomore quarter­
back can throw, as ho showed 
during his senior year at San 
Antonio's Hooscvelt High School, 
passing for 719 yards. 
"We tri,id to have the ball in 
his hands as much as we could," 
said Iloliday's high school coad1, 
Glim llill. "We didn't have the 
receivers that l'm sure he has 
them but he wa.'i able to get the 
ball thflre regardless." 
But I luliday's arm is only one 
of many aspects to his game. 
Hanktld 48th on the Chicago 
Sun-Times list of the top 100 
players in the country, Holiday 
totaled 876 yards and scored 13 
touchdowns on the ground in 
1999. And his skills extended 
beyond the gridiron. 
Irish head coach Bob Davie loves to talk about Holiday's ath­leticism. and with good mason. A fow· spurt letter-winner, the 6­foot-2 guard was a four-year starter on Hoosevclt's basketball team, finishing with more than 1,000 career points. lie also competed in track and field and baseball, clearing 6-6 in the high jump and starting in center field his senior year. Holiday also excelled in the 110-meter hur­dles during his two years on the track squad. 
Today, the 19-year old focuses on his goal of gaining playing time in the three-headed mon­ster that is the Irish quarterback position this spring. But he still finds time to show off an on­court talent that Ind schools such as Oregon and Wake Forest to rncruil Iloliday as a basketball player. 
A member of Diaper Dandies, along with teammates Abram Elam and Jerome Collins, 1loliday's Bookstore Basketball tnam has advanced to the final field of 16 teams in the tourna­ment. 
''I've never really seen any­thing like it," Iloliday said of the 30th annual Bookstore tourna­ment. "The people go out there and play hard no matter what, whatever skill level they are and just try to win. It's really com­petitive." 
So is th11 quarterback position. 
Coming to play 
After his stellar senior season, 1loliday was a hot commodity in recruiting circles. After talking to a variety of schools -includ­ing Texas A&M,where his older brother Terrell I laynes played in the late 1990's -he narrowed his choices down to Nebraska and Notre Dame. 
Although Nebraska had only Eric Crouch at quarterback and an offense that seemed more suited to his skills, Holidav chose to spend his college years in South Bend. 
up close & personal 
WITH CARLYLE HOLIDAY 

Holiday 
birthdate: Oct. 4, 1981 hometown: San Antonio, Tex. major: business favorite movie: Braveheart favorite TV show: Spin City favorite food: Anthony's Pizza's bacon cheeseburger pizza favorite car: Chevy Tahoe dorm: Carroll Hall favorite color: Blue favorite type of music: "I listen to anything. " 
"I always wanted to come to Notrn Dame and be a quarter­back really," Holiday said. "Nebraska's a great program but I just felt this was the place for me really. Everybody wants to come here. It's basically been a dream of mine." 
When he arrived in the fall, it soon became apparent that there was much to learn. In high school, Holiday was allowed to roam free and use his athletic ability to take his team into the end zone. The focus was on results and athleticism, rather than teaching skills. 
"My high school offense really was based on mostly on athletic ability," Holiday said. "We didn't work on the fundamentals of being a quarterback really." 
As a result, Holiday's throwing abilities were behind the other quarterbacks. While his arm was strong, he struggled to get in position to make the pass. With the B.ogers' help, that ability is now harnessed." 
"There was a lot of mechanical work," Holiday said. "Coach Rogers has helped me signifi­cantly on that. I've got a quicker release now." 
Rising up 
While most players from Texas get chills just thinking about the unseasonably cold South Bend weather, Holiday's childhood helped him prepare for his col­lege years. With his father in the military, he spent his grammar school years living in Alaska. 
"It was nice. It was cold but it was nice," Holiday said. "It was a great experience to go through really, just to say you were up there." 
What Holiday didn't expect coming to Notre Dame was the amount of walking he would have to do. He was assigned to Carroll Hall, a small dorm roughly 10 minutes walking dis­tance from the center of' campus and nearly a mile away from ihe athletic facilities. 


"It's a cool hall but it's not cool when you've got to come all the way across campus to go to practice or something like that," Holiday said. "I say they need to supply us with trollies or some­thing. If you have a bike or a car it's cool. But I love it out there, the guys out there are cool." 
It was as a youngster on that military base in Alaska that Holiday first set his hands on a football. Even at age 8, every­body knew that he had the skills and leadership qualities to play quarterback. 
"That was something I wanted to do," Holiday said. "I had the ability to do it and everybody had faith in me to do that job." 
While manv focused on his athletic accomplishments, the place where Holiday felt he needed to excel most was in the classroom. In high school, he was a member of the National Honor society as well as taking part in a group that worked with the local city council. 
"We went to all their meetings and we partnered up with a commissioner. There were about 11 or us and 11 of them. We just partnered up and saw what they did, what it was like to run a city. It was fun." 
Holiday came to Notre Dame intending to major in computer engineering, but like many intended engineers, changed his mind and switched to the College of Business Administration, where he intends to major in marketing or finance. 
Still, Holiday contends that academics were one of the deciding factors in his decision to choose Notre Dame. 
"'Without that I wouldn't even be here right now," he said. "That was the first thing that I concentrated on in high school. That got me here. That's what I really like about me -my acad­emic accomplishments before my football accomplishments." 

Friends, not foes 
This spring, the Irish coaching staff decided to give each quar­terback an equal amount of rep­etitions in practice and let them battle for the starting spot. With Battle moved to flanker and Godsey now at tight end, only the three freshman compete only with each other for playing time. 
In fact, Davie has suggested a situation in which two, or possi­bly all three, will take snaps at critical moments during the sea­son. 
"We're going to have to use two in a game," Davie said. "There's too much ability at that position to say, OK, this guy's the quarterback and that's it. I could almost go out on a limb here in April and say you're going to see two quarterbacks playing; you may see three." 
Such a platoon system is just fine for Holiday. "It's OK with me," he said. "If it does happen you've just got to get in there and do whatever you can. Some people run it. H's worked and it has~·t work~d. It's up to Coach Davie really. 
While the coaches still say the position is wide open. Holiday concedes that it is unlikely either he or Clark will wrestle the start­ing spot away from LoVecchio. 
"Matt's played eight games," Holiday said. "He has a lot of experience and he's a smart kid. It'd be hard to say somebody could take his spot right then. You've just to go out and com­pete and try to get whatever you can." 
Holiday now feels more com­fortable playing the offense with the first team, as a result of his increased reps in practice. 
"Now this spring we're getting the same amount of reps," Holiday said. 'Tm learning a lot more, I'm starting to pick things up a lot faster." 
His only struggle so far is maintaining the same level of play day-in and day-out. In a scrimmage earlier this spring, he completed only one pass, fum­bled a snap and was "touch sacked" twice. He did. however, have two rushes for more than 10 yards. 
"My thing right now is that I need to develop a little bit of con­sistency," Holiday said. "It's been up and down in the spring. I just need to go out and keep compet­ing and when the game comes up try to do what l can. 
Despite the battle for playing time, the three freshman quar­terbacks remain close friends olT the field. 
"We're friends," Holiday said. "We talk about each other in a good way. It's a competitive thing at the quarterback situa­tion right now. It's a friendly thing, it's a friendly competition really. We just chill and when football's here we do that but wh~.n it's over, we just hang out. 
While Holiday looks forward to the chance to impress coachos in Saturday's Blue-Gold game, he is most excited about playing in front of a cheering crowd once again, an experience he missed for the first time in over 10 years last season. 
'Tm looking forward to play­ing in front of fans. really," he said. "It's been a long time." 

Friday, April 27, 2001 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 5 
Getting comfortable 
Clark learns offense, awaits chance to shine 

By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Sporrs Writer 
For Jared Clark, this spring is not about a quarterback competition. It's about getting comfortable. 
Although he is one of three freshmen battling for a spot under center Sept. 8 in Lincoln, Neb. Clark said he is focusing more on learning the offense than trying to beat out his fellow classmates ­Carlyle Holiday and incum­bent starter Matt LoVccchio. 
"1 am trying to learn every­thing," Clark said. "Right now I am just trying to get better at every part of the game. I am getting better at reading the routes and the defense better now." 
It's hard to imagine that Clark couldn't feel comfort­able under center. The 6-foot­4, 220-pound freshman from Sarasota, Fla. was one of the most heralded high school seniors in the country when he signed with the Irish in Februarv, 2000. 
But upon arriving at Notre Dame, he quickly learned that college football is much faster and complex than anything he experienced on the high school gridiron. While his arm strength and athleticism made him successful in high school, his mind would become his most important attribute in college football. 
"You have to read the defense and know where to throw the ball, he said.
n 

"Everything has a purpose here rather than in high school when it was just 'go down and out and I'll throw you the ball.' [In college,] you have to read people because everything they do here is for a purpose." 
Although Clark is still wait­ing for his chance in shine under the Dome, he was 
up close & personal 
WITH JARED CLARK 

Clark 
birthdate: Oct. 10, 1981 
hometown: Sarasota, Fla. 
major: business 
favorite television show: Friends 
favorite food: sushi 
last movie Clark saw: Blow 
favorite color: blue favorite music type: any music favorite car: Chevy Tahoe 
almost an immediate star at Cardinal Mooney High School. He started the first game of him high school career in the opening round of the playoffs his freshman year. 
His first start didn't go as well as expected. Tampa Catholic, led by former Miami Hurricanes quarterback Kareem Kelly, blasted Clark's squad 27-7. 
"I didn't play real great," Clark said. "We ran like a wing-T offense so I didn't really do anything. I think I threw about three passes." 
Clark admits being thrust into the starting spotlight was a bit overwhelming for a 15­year old. 
"In high school, you are just a little kid when you are a freshman. It's kind of the same way here," he said. "You are just kind of in awe of how big everyone is. I was pretty nervous for that first game. I got used to it and I got better as the years went on." 



After starting as a sopho­more, Clark became the undisputed leader of the team his junior and senior season. As a junior, he threw eight touchdowns and rushed for 11 while throwing just six inter­ceptions. 
He was even better as a senior. He accounted for 27 total touchdowns his senior year -10 rushing and 17 passing -as he led his high school to one of its best sea­sons ever. Cardinal Mooney advanced to the third round of the playoffs beforp losing to the eventual state champions. 
He was also named first team all-state quarterback despite missing 2 1/2 games because of pn!:)Umonia. 
Despite his high school suc­cess, many colleges wanted Clark to play defense in col­lege. He started as a line­backer and defensive end. But Clark's heart was always at quarterback. 
"All those schools wanted me for quarterback and that is definitely the position I want to play," Clark told the Sarasota Herald-Tribune when he committed to Notre Uame. "I would've played defense only if there weren't any other options. Fortunately that wasn't the case." 
best attribute compared to the other two quarterbacks is his arm strength. He gives the nod for rushing to Holiday. 
"I feel like I can run the ball if I need to," he said. "I am not as fast as Carlyle so I can't run it as well as he can but I think I can get good enough at it that I can be effective." 
Clark said he had no reser­vations about signing with Notre Dame even though he knew head coach Bob Davie had commit­
and the three potential quar­terbacks, for now, are more interested in helping each other improve than making each other look bad. 
"I think it's definitely friend­ly between the three of us. We're friends off the field and we're friends on it," Clark said. "We are all trying to do our best. When anyone comes off the field, we try to help them. They come off the field, they ask questions. When I come off the field, I ask ques­
tions. We tell 

ments from "/feel like I can run the each other 
both Holiday what we are
ball ifI need to. I am not 
a n d doing wrong 
LoVecchio. as fast as Carlyle so I and we con­
"I had no can't run it as well as he gratulate each doubt whatso­other when
can but I think I can get
ever. The we do some­quarterback good enough at it that I thing right." situation can be effective. " For now, it didn't really appears bother me," Lovecchio is 
Jared Clark
he said. "l still the mean if I am quarterback starter and 
not going to win the starting job here, I am probably not going to be good enough to go to the next level anyways so I should probably try to get a good education." 
Clark also had a pretty good idea about the competition he would face in the future. 
"I was with Matt at the sum­mer camp and I heard about Carlyle so I knew what Twas up against," Clark said. "The better the competition, the better you have to step your play up. I just wanted to see if I could compete with these 
Holiday's run­ning skills can't be ignored. But in the last scrimmage open to the media, Clark looked the sharpest. 
For the freshman from Sarasota, this spring is all about getting comfortable, learning the offense and get­ting ready for a run at the starting spot this summer. 
"I think T have learned a lot more than I did during the year because T am getting a lot more reps and every­
-
thing," Clark said. "I am learning a lot more and I am
ERNESTO LACAYOfTha Observer 

Although Clark was a run­guys." getting more comfortable with
Jared Clark hands off to a tailback during the first day of 
ning and passing threat in Clark, however, said the everybody and with the
spring practice. Of the three freshman quarterbacks, Clark is 
high school, he believes his competition is not cutthroat offense."
generally regarded as the best passer. 
.----------------------­
Friday, April 27, 2001

page 6 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
----------~ 


C,unpns View Apartments 
Campus View Apartments ... elegance abounds in both the one bedroom I one bath and the two bedroom I two bath suites. Each is furnished with carpeting, blinds, dishwasher, refrigerator, range, disposal and an abundance ofcloset and lounging space. Luxurious living at affordable prices -a tough combination to beat. 
. 

Campus View Offers Quality Apartments at affordable prices. Here are some amenities offered: 
• 
Walking distance to Notre Dame, Saint Mary's & Holy Cross Campuses 

• 
Pool, Outdoor Tennis, Basketball, and Volleyball Courts 

• 
Individual Heating & Central air conditioning controls 

• 
Each apartment has a refrigerator, range, dishwasher & disposal 

• 
Furnishings include carpeting & blinds 

• 
Apartments can be furnished or unfurnished 

• 
Convenient on-site laundry facilities 

• 
Professional on-site property management 

• 
12 or 9 month lease arrangements 

• 
Summer lease arrangements 

• 
24 hour answering service for maintenance 

• 
We take security and safety seriously 


WIN A 2711 COLOR TV ... 
When you are approved for a one year lease, you qualify to be entered in a drawing for a 2711 color TV. 
Contest valid April 20, 2001 through August 20, 2001. Please allow 2 weeks for delivery on TV from the date of the drawing. One winner may be awarded per contest. Contest winner may not qualify to be entered in any contest sponsored by Mc Cullogh Development within 90 days ' of winning. 
Campus View Apartments For more information and 
1801 Irish Way 

Send e-mail to: pictures go to our website:
South Bend, IN 46637
campusview@sbinet.com http://www.wsmkradio.com/c
Ph. (219) 272-1441 

ampusview/campusview. htm 
FAX (219) 272-1461 




' 
I 
! I 
' ­
I ­
i 
i 
.
I 
I I I 
' 
' 
' 
; __.. 
' 
... 

The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 7 

DUFFY-MARIE ARNOUL TfThe Observer 

From left, Irish freshman quarterbacks Matt Lovecchio, Jared Clark and Carlyle Holiday warm up before a recent scrimmage Inside the stadium. Holiday and Clark are challenging incumbant Lovecchio for playing time next season. All are expected to play in Saturday's Blue-Gold game. 
WARMING 
UP 

Springtime is here. The snow is off the ground, trees and flowers begin to bloom and students retreat from their rooms to study on the quads. But perhaps the biggest sign of spring at Notre Dame is Spring 
Practice. The Irish hit the turf for the first time and players try out new positions. Saturday is the culmination of 15 challenging workouts -the Blue and Gold Game, in Notre Dame Stadium Saturday at 1:30 p.m. 



-
-
page 8 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, April 27, 2001 
-==-=======================================================================-~~=..:: 
Experience prevails 
Coaches fall back on lo Vecchio sexperience in quarterback decision 

By ANDREW SOUKUP As.socia1e Sports Editor 
Last f'riday, Bob Davio addrnssed one or the biggf1st con­troversies surrounding the Notre Dame football squad. 
Who was going to bn the 2001 quarterback? 
Would he go with the calm, experienced Matt Lovecchio, who led the Irish to a Fiesta Bowl berth? Or would he settle on either Carlyle Holiday or Jared Clark, two highly-touted quarter­backs who haven't played a down'! 
lie did noithnr. 

"I could almost go out on a limb hem in April and say you'rn going to Sl'e two quartt!rbacks playing; you may sec thnw," Davie said. 
But when asked to name the probabln startPr, Davie rnsponded without lwsitation. 
Ilis man: Matt LoVncchio 

The Audition 
It's hard to imagine that one year ago LoVecchio was getting ready for his high school prom. I le took a 2-2 team reeling from a hL-.;t-second loss against Michigan State and led them to seven straight wins. The experience LoVecchio gained last season is what made him the most attrac­tive starting candidate. 
"The advantage Matt LoVccchio has is he's played in high-profile games," Davie said. 
The highest-profile game Lovecchio played in was the 41-9 loss in the Fiesta Bowl. But he said the pressure didn't faze him. Instead, he found himself in an unfamiliar position -trailing. 
"We were just put in a situation where we got behind," he said. "One thing led to another and it just snowballed." 
Despite the loss, Davie knew Lovecchio got something out of playing in the Fiesta Bowl. 
"Part of becoming a successful quarterback is to get your butt kicked a little bit," he said. "Certainly he had it in the Fiesta Bowl. That's got to be worth something. It L,; in my mind." 
Center Stage 
The composure LoVecchio showed after the Fiesta Bowl loss reflected the calm demeanor that
-made him the preferred choice last season. Davie and offensive coordinator Kevin Rogers picked Lovecchio because he had the best grasp of the system. not nec­essarily because he had the most athletic ability. LoVecchio didn't disappoint. He came out game after game and performed solidly. In his seven wins, LoVecchio threw for 11 touchdowns and just one inter­ception. Had he been eligible, he would have finished seventh in the nation in pa<;sing ellkiency. But when spring practice opened, Davie made it clear the quarterback job was wide open. Although LoVecchio had the expe­rience, lloliday and Clark could potentially overtake the freshman. ft Ir those other two quarter­backs play better than Matt, how much better are they?" Davie said. "That's the decision we have 
up close & personal 
WITH MATT LOVECCHIO 

LoVecchio 
birthdate: Feb. 2, I 982 hometown: Franklin Lakes, NJ major: business favorite baseball team: Yankees favorite food: steak most memorable experience while attending Notre Dame: 
playing in Notre Dame 
Stadium favorite class: math favorite non-football activity: 
playing video games 
two teams playing for the national championship: Notre Dame and our opponent 
to make. They're going to have to be a lot better to overtake the experience factor that he has. Are they capable of doing that? Sure, they are. They're both very talent­ed players." 
"As far as they're concerned, in their minds they believe they have a chance to be the starting quar­terback here," Rogers said. "That's what I want." 
Davie gave all three quarter­backs an equal opportunity to shine. But having to share snaps and watch didn't faze LoVecchio. He continued to do what he does best -stay quiet and work hard. 
'Tm just going to go out there each day and get better this spring," he said. 
LoVecchio had to share playing time with Holiday and Oark. He watched as Holiday and Clark, each with a year on the sidelines, showed just as much talent and potential. 
"You don't have to talk about competition at that position," Davie said. "There is competi­tion." 
"I legitimately am busting my tail to make sure everyone's get­ting equitable reps," Rogers said after one practice. "Some guys do better than others, but they're all getting better and they're all qual­ity players." 
Day after day, Davie said the quarterbacks kept getting better and better. One day, Clark would shine, and the next, Lovecchio would step up. 
"There hasn't been one guy that has been consistently better than the others," Rogers said. 
"Competition brings out the best in everyone," Davie said. "There's no question at that position, the standard has been raised because of those three young guys. 


"Every day out here a different quarterback steps up and a differ­ent quarterback impresses you," he continued. "There's a fine line between each one ofthem." 
Staying In the Spotlight 
So how did Lovecchio distin­guish himself -again? 
"I think I'm just taking it day by day and working as hard as I can," he said. 
If LoVecchio won't say his expe­rience is a factor, his teammates will. 
"Matt's played eight games," Holiday said. "That's a lot of experience and he's a smart kid. It would be hard to say someone could take his spot. You just have to go out and compete, and get whatever you can out ofit." 
There's no tension between LoVecchio, Holiday and Clark. All three are good friends on and off the field. 
"It's a good situation," LoVecchio said. "Since we got here in August, everything's been good. We hang out on and off the field and we're there to help each other." 
"We just push him to be a bet­ter person and player, just like he pushes us," Holiday added. 
When Davie effectively named Lovecchio the No. 1 quarterback, it wasn't as much a matter of him playing significantly better in spring than the other quarter­backs. Talent-wise, all three quarterbacks are very close. LoVecchio's experience sets him apart. 
"It's the combination of where he's been where he's played, and who we play early that gives him the advantage," Davie said. "You think about going to Lincoln, Neb., going to College Station, you like the idea that you've got a quarterback that's been in a 
game."· 
"The fact remains that we are playing Nebraska in the first game-away," Rogers said. 
Lovecchio admits there's a lot of pressure associated with being the quarterback at Notre Dame. 
"If you actually sat down and thought about it, things can get pretty overwhehning," he said. "I try to avoid all the talk and just go out there each day and go to practice." 
"Matt's been tremendous," Davie said. "Sure, all the conver­sation's going to be about those guys that didn't play. That's just what it is here at Notre Dame. I think Matt's mature enough to understand that." 
It's this calm, confident demeanor that sets LoVecchio apart. Despite all the attention focused on him last season and the quarterback situation this season, he loves playing football and he loves Notre Dame. 
"I'd never trade this for any­thing," he said. "Football got me to Notre Dame, and I love this team. I'm happy." 
Sharing the Lead 
But is Lovecchio only happy because he played last year? It's hard to tell -and nobody knows how long Lovecchio will start. Davie isn't saying for certain that the quarterback job is just LoVecchio's. 
"There's too much ability at that position to say, OK, this guy's the quarterback and that's it," he said. 
Davie made it obvious LoVecchio will lead the Irish onto the field against Nebraska. But after that, it's up in the air. 
"It's a long season, and all three of them have long careers here, so that can change," he said. "It all depends on performance." 
Regardless of how much he ends up playing, LoVecchio plans on doing what he does best ­working hard. 
"We just mind our business and work hard on the field," he said about what the coaches plan to do with the quarterbacks. 'Tm just going to go out each day and get better." 
"Sometimes the guy that's played doesn't get as much atten­tion," Davie said. "He's handled it great. He has a tremendous upside. He's made improvement this spring. I'm really pleased with him." 
That's why Lovecchio is the No. 1. 







