
Toxic waste meets its match
CLOUDY 
Tuesday 
Notre Dame professors amt alumni participated on a resean:h team that 
discovered a way to clean water contaminated by toxic metals. 
HIGH 52° 
NOVEMBER 27, 
News . page 3


LOW 46° 
2001 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 56 HTTP:/ !OBSERVER.ND.EDU 




University gives quads makeover 
SciPnco Toad1ing Facility and Bv SCOTT BRODFUEHRER 
has commissioned a study of A»o~t.tnt ;s..cw, Editor 
parking and road infrastructure on and around the campus. 
Tlw L'nivPrsity is ,,mbarking on a ,ww Pra of' construction Engineering Building that ,..,ill transform thr, arPa Th<' 150.000 squarr foot Multi­b!'LWC<'ll the DeBarlolo Quad Disciplinary Engineering and Wnst Quad and tlw area HPS!'.arr:h and Learning Center surrnunrling Stnpan CPnt<>r. will br located at the current site 
This 1ww ro11str11ction will (>I' tlm University Club. a private inrludP a 1ww engirwnring build­dining facility adjacent to the ing. aH ,,xpandPd law school. a post ollic,i and MrKenna Hall. tH'\\ hot!'! and 1wv\· buildings /'or Tlw facilitv will contain a com­thP :--:otr<' DamP S(\Curity/PolicP mons an~a. alarge learning cen­dqx1rlnwn! and tlw on-t·arnpus tPr. a nanotechnolog:y laboratory post ollic,,. and a materials svnthesis labo­
Unlike• tlw rapid constnwtinn ratory. Tlw facility will empha~ Ill' !lw last ci<'rndl' t'uP!rd bv tlw sizP interactive l<'arning with (;P1wrntions <'ampaign. su;·h as hands-on projPcts that incorpo­tlw 1ww \otrP Danw BookstorP ratP tlw curriculum of more than and llw C:olPman-:'vlors<1 C:PntPr, om\ Pngi,rnPring discipline. llw n11TPnl c•conomic dowoturn CutTPntly. plans do not call for may aff<'<'t thP timetablP in the frtcilitv to b,i connected to the which tlwsP projPct.s an' corn­Cushing and Fitzpatrick l lalls of plPtPd. ,\II of tlw projef'ts arP Engineering. Thes,, buildings 1·urrPnlly 1wnding as tlw will continu(' to be used by the UnivNsity solicits l'unding f'oi· tlw Colkg<i of Engirrnering after con­pn\j(•1·ts. whi('h arP mon~ PXp<'n­struction is completed. sivP than rPc<rnl projncts. Tlw According to Sr,ully, University cost ol' both th<' Multi­prcsidmt Father Edward Malloy llisciplinary Engin<'l'ring . has convened a committee to HPsnarch and I.Parning and the diicide ii' tllP University Club will law school nxpansion is project­be replaced. moved to a new site 
\!d to Im $'.i6 million Pach, com­or eliminawd. As a part of this the Law School's library. be slightly different from the contain conference facilities, it is pared to the Coleman-Morse's decision, the exact mission of the 
Law School and Engineering unknown if it will be able to final cost of $14 million. current club will be studied. Building. accommodate all conferences.
Hotel
"Tlw timing depends on fund­"Our aspiration is that a large
The new hotel, called the

ing. \VP arP looking forward to Law School part of the money will be raised
Notre Dame Inn, will be built on Related construction
bl'gin lconstrur.tion] wlrnn fund­An expansion to the current in private donations. My goal is
the site of the current Security By the time the current post
ing 1wrmits ... our giving has law school will double the to cover the capital with gifts
Building and will contain 220 office arid Security Building are
slowed down from prPvious amount of space from 100,000 and to use the revenue to keep
rooms, conferencing facilities demolished for new construc­
years. but not dramatically. I squarn feet to 200.000. A wing tuition down ... we are looking
and dining facilities. The build­tion, these departments will be
hop!' our bPtinfactors will contin­in gothic design will span the for naming opportunities of facil­ing will face Saint Mary's lake moved into a new complex near
UI' to bn supportive," said current walkway to the site of ities within the inn," said Scullv. 
with a view of the Dome and the Stepan Center, at the current
Univ1irsity cxecutive vice presi­the p_ost office where a new The fate of the Morris Inn, the site of the basketball courts and
dent l·'aLhl'r Timothy Scully. structure will be built to house Basilica. current on-campus hotel, and a parking lot.
In addition to these projects classroom and office facilities. Because the building wil1 gen­McKenna Hall, the University's that am pending !'uncling. the The current law school will be erate revenue, funding for the conference center, is unknown. Lniwrsity has funding for a nmv completely gutted and will house at-least $SO-million building will While the Notre Dame Inn will see BUILDING/page 4 

Faculty forms group to handle sexuality issues 

By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
News 'X'rim 

A group of Saint I\lary's faculty and staff have band­ed lo.gether to proYidc a confidential resource net­work for students struggling wilh sexualily issues. 
ThP organization. which consists of eight faculty and staff volunteers in various departments across the College, aims to provide dia­logue and rPsourcPs for stu­denls dealing with pregnan­cy. sPxual assault. sexual orientation and sexual expe­riences. 
Volunteers will provide access to both on-campus and off-campus resources to 
help students rleal with sexuality The volunteers have developed a list issues. of both on-campus and off-campus The organization, called resources they trust for students to "Connections," talk to about sexuality 
launched last issues, Pittman said.
"One of the big concerns
week after a year "l don't like to send of preparation expressed ... was that the students places where I 
and training for campus wasn't safe to talk haven't had contact volunteers. The with. the individuals,''
about sexuality." 

volunteers in the Pittman said. network were Most of the volunteers "carefully Catherine Pittman have not been formally screened'-' and trained to be coun­
psychology professor

have been trained selors, but have gone 
to listen, said Lisa through in-house train­Karle, a volunteer ing sessions at thn in the network. College. The goal of "Connections" is to 
"One of tho big concerns expressed place stud1rnts in contact with profes­... was that the campus wasn't safe to sionals who can help them. talk about sexuality," said Catherine Volunteers also aim to clarify Pittman, who helped organize tho net­policies and services at the work. "W1i want to be supportive for students." see SUPPORT/page 6 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Life exists after football 
I am a preily passionate guy when it comes to footbaH. I wonlri say that from August to January not a minute goos by that I am not babbling about the game. When my teams are doing well, I am happy. When my tMrns are 
doing poorly. I am miser­ablP. I started playing foot­ball when I was 9-vears old, and I played frir eight of the next nine autumns. All of this culminated with my senior year at Jacksonville High School in the fall of 1997. I worked really hard in the off-sea­son. lifting weights and even running. I really wantPd a successful senior 
season. 
8ut things really didn't work out that way. We started off with a win against our cross-town 


Matt Orenchuk 
Asst. Web Administrator 

rivals. \Ve had a great option quarterback who was the best athlete on the field. But we had no team r,hemistrv. After that first win m,· team managed only "two more wins. We liniihed the season ;{-7. It was the first losing s1w,on for Jat~ksonville High School 1n 31 years. Disappointment was an understatement. 
Now. I know football isn't the meaning oflife. And although I love the game, I know there is more out there that winning a football game. But in 1997 it felt like the world was crashing down. I had to come to grips with disappoint­ment and the fact that life doesn't always work out like you think it should. 
But sitting here four years later. in my senior year of college. I understand things a lot better. Life is not a scripted Hollywood plot where you win the state championship in your senior year. Instead I think life is a lot of ups and downs. People want to feel like they are in the movies. But I think real life is more dealing with the highs and the lows. Some days you will feel like a champ. Some days you will feel worthless. But through it all we need to remember how blessed we all are. 
This year a lot of people are upset about the Notre Dame football team. And I am one of them. But I learned my lesson four years ago. l love this universitv and l love our football team. But lam not \<\'Or;ied about going 4-7. It isn't life or death. Notre Dame football. much like life. isn't going to be perfect all of the time. I know that someday we will be back at the top of college football. And that will be awesome. But I know that dPep down, regardless of how thP football team is doing. l am a pre.tty lurky guy. 
Contact Matt Orenchuk at Orenchuk. l@nd.edu 
The uiews expressed in the Inside Column are those of lhe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obseruer 
CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 
The 06,crwr regard, itself as a professional pnblic:uion and stm·cs for the highest swnd.uds of journalism at ,di times. We <lo, however, rccognir.e th.it we will make mistilkes. If we have made a misr;ike. please rnnran us at 631-4~4 l so we c:,m 
t.orrct.:r ou1 error. 
Tia· Obm"u (l:s1•~ ~'>'> 2-iOOO) i, publi,lied Monday tl,ru11~!, Frid")' t:Xc-1.·p1 durin~ t'X.un ,mi.I v.ic.11io11 pt·riot.k TIit' Ohservt:r i.\ ;r HH.·mhn o!' rl1t· A«;sn(i,ut·d Prvi.s, All n:producnon ri~.dlfs .m.: n.:St'rved. 
.•.
' , 

Tuesday, November 27, 200 I
The Observer . INSIDE 
QUOTES OF THE WEEK 
"When you come to a "It's exciting to see school like Notre the change on Dame. the campus. lt creates a expectations is t:hat real positive feeling you 're going to be throughout the playing in the NCAA school." tournament." 
Kristen Matha SMC student body vice­
Griffin Howard president on Strategic
senior soccer player on Plan improvements
athletic expectations 
"My coaches always taught me that the race is won or lost in the last 100 and the person who wants it more will win. " 
Jonathan Pierce co-captain of men's swimming team 
"We want to find ways ofgrabbing freshmen, .finding ways to keep them away from less desirable events." 
Jesse Flores, Student Senate representative to the CLC on underage drinking 
Compiled from U-Wire reports
BEYOND CAMPUS 


Slow graduation rate causes crowded campus 
ANN ARBOH, Mich. 

What is traditionally a four-year com­mitment is quickly becoming a live­and six-year standard. Many four-year colle~es and universities are suffering from an influx of pPrennial students ­students who, for one reason or anoth­er, don't graduate on time. 
Nationally, only one-third of under­graduate students attending a four­year r,ollPge graduate on time. 
Many universities are braring for this low rate to r,ause problems in the near future. Rural and suburban universi­ties, expecting that as part of the fallout from the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks stu­dents will be less likely to go to an urban school. worry about overcrowd­ing and over-enrollment. 
To alleviate the problem, some states -such as Pennsylvania and Texas ­
FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY 
Students lobby state legislature 
With Florida's current budget crisis forcing the calling of a second special legislative session. a branch of Florida State Universitv's Student Government Association, the Offke of Stude~t Lobbying, is trying to make sure that students' concerns are addressed, especially in regards to budget cuts in the state university system. "In lobbying, it's hard to have every one of your goals met," said Matthew Gaetz, assistant dirertor of Student Lobbying. "It is important for us to protect thr, small pockets of leg­islation that can have a dramatic impact on the way things pan out for students." According to Gaetz, 6.24 percent of' FSU's general funds were cut during the first special session. Also, $3.6 million was cut f'rom Student Financial Assistanr,e and $936,992 was cul from the University's medical school. Although some ol' the cuts seem drarnatir, GaPtz says that they could have been a lot worse if lobbying efforts hadn't bmm successful. Such efforts helped tu maintain full funding for the Minority Teacher Scholarship Fund and to help maintain current levels of support to the Florida Prepaid program 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
Ac-cu\Veather ,._. fore..:ast for Jayrimc condifiom. and hi~h temperatures 
.
r, .,,.---· 
I 
i ' 

Wedne~day 
i 

Thursday Friday [ Saturd~y Suntjay
,1:)•.,-j',.#,,~,'\/',..."··-.;·l 
Q,Q,~8QQ i) 

Sh<'wers T-storms Rain Fl~r;ies S~o-1~ Ice Su11ny Via Associated Prfl.SS <Jrap!ucsNe, 

are offering universities with gradua­tion rates above a certain percentage additional funding. And somc schools are requiring that students seck per­mission before taking longer than l'our years to graduate. 
The University of Michigan. with a 61 percent four-year graduation rate. has the highest rate of any public univnrsity in Mir.higan. Ol'fir.ials here said stu­dents staying longer than fc>ur years is not a problem. 
"Chir.f among tlrn rrw.;ons for tlrn GO percent f'our-ypar lJ of' M graduation rate: thP quality of' the undergraduate studenlc; admittr,d to th,, univorsity, thr high motivation to succeed among our student body and th<\ hugdy pn~~pro­fessional interest among some of' our students and the quality of tho und,1r­graduate education expericmce." said Esrold Nurse. assistant d,\an ol' LSA academic affairs. 
Other schools in Michigan and the Big Ten aren't l'aring so well. 
Michigan Statn University has thP second-highest four-year graduation rate in the state, at 31 prn:Pnt. 
~ ~ 
Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
HARVARD UNIVERSITY 
Missing prof unlikely bioterrorist target 
As the search f'or a missing Ilarvard University bio­physics profrssor continues into its 11th day. Don Wiley's colleagues say that. although tlw casn has aroused the attnntion of' fodrral invnstigators. his work is unlikely to bo of interest to bioterrorists. The FBI said Friday that it is monitoring local efforts due to tlw prol'es­sor's work with ram infoctious diseases. Tlw burnau is keeping an eye on the case because of' Wiley's expertise "given the state of affairs post-Sr.pt. 11," FBI agent William Woerner in Memphis. Tr,nn.. told Thn Boston Globe. But lliggins l'rof'essor of Biorlrnmistry .lark StromingcT, who won the Japan Prize in 1<J9<J along with Wiley for progrnss in understanding lll<' human immunP system, said Sunday that though Wiley workr\d on pro­teins that had bPPn obtained from dangProus virusPs. lw didn't actually produr<' tlw viruses. "It's a misund1•r­slanding to bnli,we that lw would bP involved in any work that would b,1 interesting to thn FBI or t1•rrorists." Str'.!minger said. "I le had nothing to do with live virus­
ns. 

NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon.Tuesday, Nov. 27. 

............ 

------~ 
@ 2001 AccuWaathor, Inc. COLO WARM STATIONARY
r-~Pm-,.-u,~,------------------­
@(000 CJD CJD 
High  Low  Showers  Rulo  T-storma  ~lurriea  Snow  Ice  Sunny  Pt. Cloudy_C~udy  
Vm AGsocmted Prn,s  
Atlanta  73  57  Las Vegas  52  34  Portland  48  36  
Baltimore  63  46  Memphis  57  52  SacramsnlO  57  34  
Boston  55  45  Milwaukee  46  43  St. Louis  46  41  
Chicago  50  43  New York  57  46  Tampa  81  64  
Houston  64  55  Philadelphia  57  45  Washington  DC 63  48  


' 

ltte~d:iy, November 27, 2001 ]he Observer . NEWS page 3 


Scientists clean toxic water 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
1'i ew, Wri c,·r 
Hnst>arclwrs from tho LinivPrsitv's C<•11tPr for 1:nvironm·1~11tal S('icuce and l<ichnology have discovc!r(\d a method or rlcaning up water (:onlaminutnd with toxil' mol­als using biomass from South i3Pnd's dhanol plant «nd ground Indiana corn cobs_ 
Tho r<'snarch toam, including \0Lr1• Dame µrofossors Charlos Kulpa and ClivP N1!al, assistant prot'Pssional SJH'cialist .lini:~sh Jain. profossnr Mark Schncngurt of Wid1ita State UnivPrsitv and four Notrn Pamc u11cfPrgraduatt1s, hop11s Lo pr1:sP11t the idPa to mining rnmpaniPs in tlw futurP. 
"Tlw quPslion was 'could W<' u1kP out h<\avv nwtals from watr>r'!"' Kulp11 said, "Th1·rP ar,· m!'llrnds but they're 1•x1wnsiv!' so wn thought about \using! biomass. The idea 1·anw f"rom us silting around and trying to solve a problem." 
Tlw lPalll n.inducll,d ox1wri­ments with simulated mine wastewater using ground corncobs and tlw by-product from ethanol production. Tho rosult, according to Jain, r<'moved toxic metals from watl'r and transforre<l it to the biomass leaving tho clnaned water and a degradable sludge_ · 

,\long with simulat,•d wastP­walor, Lho team also tested their cleanup mP-thod on water samples from Berkley Pit in Butte, Mont. Tho analysis were succPssf'ul at rC'moving toxic mPtals from the five gallons of water testecl. 
"Wo had Ycry good success," 
Jain said. "We  worn  able to  
n•move lead. We had  a  prob­ 
lem ,vilh arsenic."  

The biomass also rnmovcd cadmium. nirkcl and zinc from Llw wastewater. 
Tlw tt'atn chose to use the biomass because they knew that it would bind to the metal and romovP it from the water. The group is also studying ways of harvesting the metal l'rom the by-product for com­mercial use. a process that could bf' carried out bv com­bustion or r,omµosting the mass, according to Neal and Kulpa. 
"Al! we've done right now is demonstrated its feasibilitv," !\;(1al said. "The next step is· to demonstrate its application." 
"This project has the poten­tial to help industry in detoxifi­cation," Jain added. 
Tlw rnsParch was runded by thP Cent'1r for Environmental Science and T<ichnology but the tPam has already he!'n approached by a l'\otre Dame alumnus who owns a copper mine and is interested in using the method for cleanup. 
Kulpa. Neal and Jain worked on Lhe project with Mark Schrrnegurt and four Notre Dame undergraduate students inelucling Sara Brown, Matthew Quallick, John l\lenicucci aml David Garofalo. At the-time of the rnscarch, Schneegurt was at Notre Dame working on post-doctorial work. He has since taken a post at Wichita State as an assistant professor of biology. 
The four undergraduate stu­dents. who have since graduat­ed Notre Dame, were impor­tant in carrying out the research, according to Kulpa, Neal and Jain_ 
"They adually ran a lot of experiments," Kulpa said. "They did a lot of the column work and assisted in analysis. It was \'ery much undergradu­ate driven work." 
The threP main researchers, Kulpa, Neal and Jain, are rrrnmbcrs of Notre Dame's fac­ulty. Kulpa is a professor of biological sciences and direc­tor of the Center for Environmental Science and Technology. Neal is an associ­ate professor of geological sci­ences and director of the ICP­MS facility and Jain is an assistant professional special­ist. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at tha­gard. l@nd.edu. 

Bush threatens terrorist nations 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Bush said Monday the U.S.-led war in Afghanistan b "just the begin­ning" of' the fight against ter­rorism, and ho warned Iraq and North Koma there would bo consequences for producing weapons of mass destruction. 
The president, asked about Iraq and about potential mili­tary targets beyond the Afghanistan war, expanded on the list of ways a country can get crosswise with the U.S.-led coalition against terrorism. 
"If anybody harbors a ter­rorist, they're a terrorist," he said. "If they fund a terrorist, they're a terrorist. If they house terrorists. they're ter­rorists_ I mean, I can't make it any more clear to other nations around the world." 
"If they develop weapons of mass destruction that will be used to terrorize nations, they will be held accountable," the president said, That remark spelled out a new condition for countries that want to avoid being labeled pro-terrorist. 
White House spokesman Ari Fleischer said Bush was relat­ing long-held views -not sug­gesting new policy or signaling post-Afghanistan plans. 
Senior administration offi­cials, speaking on condition or anonymity, did not dispute Fleischer but said Bush's remarks reflected a growing consensus at the White House that Iraqi President Saddam Hussein could be the greatPst hurdle in America's war on terrorism unless he moves on the weapons issue. 
Aides fearing Bush's com­ments would upset U.S. allies reluctant to back action against Iraq said late Monday that Saddam is not necessarily the next target after Afghanistan. Other countries that harbor terrorists, such as Somalia, or need help to curb terrorism in their countri11s, such as Yemen. arc just as likelv to receive Bush's atten­tion· once the Afghanistan campaign is complete, they said. 
The president was asked whether he had a message for Saddam as the administration looks toward the next phase of tho U.S. campaign_ 
"My message is ... that if you harbor a terrorist, you're a terrorist," Bush said. "If you develop weapons of mass destruction that you want to terrorize the world, vou 'll be held accountable." · 
Some advisers are pushing Bush to make Iraq his next target. Many or those aides worked for Bush's father who led the country through the Persian Gulf War. 



IRSf 232:01 MW 1:55-2:4S Eamonn 0 Ciardha 
Co-Req. lRST232T 
The Irish Military Tradition 
What better at Notre Dame than acourse on the fighting Irish? Over the last five centuries, hundred.s ofthousands of Irishmen have engaged in military conflict at home; in the same period, as many Irishmen have served in the armies of various European powers, the United States,Canada, and Mexico. This course explores the changing political and ideological contexts of Irish military involvement; it devotes particular attention to lrish·participation in the American War of Independence, the Civil War and the subjugation ofthe native peoples. This course will be taught by Eamonn OCiardha, aleading Irish military historian and highly regarded teacher. 
Ciaran Brady 

Late Medieval/Early Modern Ireland Contending Conquests: The Struggle for Mastery in Ireland, 1471-1660 
Focusing on 1470 to 1660, this course offers new perpectives on the struggle for mastery in Ireland, Investigating arange of primary sources, students will explore the multi-layered English conquest of Ireland and the diverse responses of the natives.ranging from accomo­dation and assimilation to outright rebellion and national war. Professor Ciaran Brady of Trinity College Dublin will teach the course. Professor Brady is one of Ireland's most distin­guished historians with areputation for innovative teaching. 
While at Notre Dame in spring 2002 Brady will also teach: 
IRST 432:01 TH 3:30-4:45 Ciaran Brady Elizabethans and Their World 1550-1603 
This course sets the work ofthe great figures ofthe "Elizabethan Renaissance" ­
Shakespeare, Spenser, and Sidney-in wider cultural and intellectual contexts, Materials surveyed in the course include crime writing, religious exhortations, ballads, engravings, and maps which late sixteenth century English people used to comprehend and control their changing world. 

Professor Eamonn 0 Ciardha of the Keough Institute for Irish Studies and Steve Moriarty of the Snite Museum examine Paul Wood's 
Abso/111io11 under Fire: Fr. Corby blesses the Irish Brigade before the Battle ofGettvsburg 
( I 891) 


Tuesday, November 27, 200 l
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 

Building 
continued from page 1 

"There is a need to complete this new facility prior to begin­ning site work for the Notre Dame Inn. This new facility is intended to be home for the long term for these two func­tions [the post office and Securitvl so we have explored future ·needs as well as cur­rent deficiencies to provide adequate space for current functions as well as to provide for growth and change," said Craig Tiller. a project manag­er in the Office of the University Architect. 
Like the current post office, the new facility will be owned by the University and leaser! by the postal service. It will be designed using standards pro­\'ided by the postal service. 
The new complex will require that the Stepan bas­ketball courts be moved behind the center, in the area b.-twet'n Stepan Center and Douglas Road. 
Science Teaching Facility 

One of the final construction projects funded by the Gf'nerations campaign, the Science Teaching Facility, will be built at the site of the park­ing lot in front of Rolfs Sports Recreation Center and will free up space in Nieuwland Science Hall for faculty and student research. Construction is scheduled to begin in 18 months and will take two years to complete. 
The $70-million, 202,000­
square-foot building will con­lain two 275-seat lecture halls, one 150-seat multimedia visualization lecture hall, one 40-sflat classroom, 40 teach­ing labs, a greenhouse. a herbarium and a museum component. All classrooms in Nicuwland vvill continue to be used, but all teaching labs will be moved to the new facility. 
"Space that is vacated in the move to the new facility will he occupied for various uses. Tim majority will be outfitted as research labs and offices for the different sdences," said Tiller. 

Parking and road infrastructure 
To accommodatB for the parking absorbed in construct­ing new facilities and to improve the current parking and traffic situation that Scully described as sub opti­mal, the University has con­tracted a parking and traffic consultant to study the situa­tion. 
"The philosophy we have is to trv to maintain Notre Dame as ,ri'uch of a pedestrian cam­pus as we can," said Scully. 
One of the goals of the con­sulting firm is to make the parking lots fit in more with the architecture of the campus and find more parking spaces, while avoiding parking garages. 
"We have a bucolic, environ­mentally sensitive campus and I want to provide parking that is not as massive as it is now. The lots have no interruptions with trees [or other landscap­ing] and it looks like urban plight. We need to make it look nice," said Scully. 

Tho !'inn is also studying pedestrian sal"ety. ospecially as th(1 amount of f'acilitics the University has on the other side of Junipc~r Hoad continues to grow. 
"Our goal is to provide for the safety of students. As a means to that goal we have to examine traffic patterns ... we're going to ha,e a student fatality if we're not careful," said Scully. 
Once the firm finishes its analysis. the University will have to provide additional parking before construction ran bogin on the Sciencn 
Call 259-1000 for more defJ1ils 

ANDY DEVOTO/The Observer 
Teaching Facility and the com­plex for the post office and Security. 

Entrance 

The University is also con­sidering imp.roving tho entrance to the campus. Currently, the 1111!) la11dscap­ing at the cntra111 ,. tD ram pus is a large mound with a flow­ering ND. but Scully said this landscaping is "embarrassing, grungy and pathetic" and will be destroyed in the construc­tion of the Marie I'. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. 
"Our entrance is so sad. so pathc~tic for a University that claims to be the. premier Catholic university in the country and one of the top schools in t.lw nation," said Scully, 
Scully said that a new entrance would be a stronger priority in "the golden era of the 90s" but is not as large of a priority with tho current recnssion. 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at 
brodfuehrer. l@nd.edu. 

The University of Notre Dame Department of Music Series pre ,ents 



£lhenb:::MUSIQVE 
Concert XVI: Gregorian Chant & Primitive Polyphany from Dutch Sources 
~1JB ~cbola ;!fl1lusicorum 
JDtb:otr.tn.ont

~i4 !4 ,.. 4 
f .. ~,.-4·,
....._ -,,
' ~ 
;J'\4ifu:.ttttt' i1m\\\t11L1 o.li.':11.tiu.luui 
~~-T~---'t-~t....+-c ·­
umnt Ql'H'O:'\lnm1t' It\ Ulljll.t U\UllCL'tltr
C 4 ....... __ _ 
:-4---~ ~'i .. 4 +-:~· UO\Uru Ui!G ~l\llO fn'\11~ l'Q--1,~.tn'k1l'll 
Alexander Blachly, director 
Wed., Nov 28, 2001 
9:30 pm, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Free and open to the public 
For more information, lease call (219) 631-6201 or visit htt :/ /www.nd.edu/-con oers 

Notre Dame vs. Army Men's Basketball Game Wednesday, November 28th 
Prostate Cancer Awareness Game 
Win a free airline ticket and other great door prizes 

Come support Notre Dame and Prostate Cancer Awareness! 





ATION 
Tuesday, Novcmber 27, 200 l COMPILED 11IW'\1 THE OHSEHVER WIHE SEHVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Political violence sweeps Zimbabwe: 
A 20-yrar-old stuc!Pnt was killrd and a farm1•r \Vas shol and rrilically \voundr.d in weekr.nd p11liLical violt'JH't' in Zimbabwn. witrrnssns and 1wws rPports said. l.anwck Ch1\mvura. a rolil­iral st'i(cnr.1• stucknt l'rom Ilarnrn. was b1"atnn and rhokPd by suldinrs and tlwn thrown off a moving train by soldi!'rs htt1' Sawrrlay. !'(•!low passP11g1•r Samc.on Makuwaza told thr. inde­pnmfont llail:,, Nr,ws. 
E. coli breaks out in England: A sus­p1'r.t.Pd outbrP,1k ol' I;. coli poisoning in north­Wt'SlPrn 1•:ngland has st'nt H, pnop!P lo the hospital. lwalth olTicials said Monday. ;\ North \\'1•sl Hr.gional Ilnalth Authority spokesman said tlwn~ wnre livn ronl'irrncd cases of i11foc­lion with tlw I•. 1·oli O I :i7 strain of h,u'.lPria in Llu• villag1' of LicclPston in Lancashirn county. ZOO mih·s northv,t,st ol' Lond1m. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
U.S. subsidizes hog farm insurance: 
Tlw gc1v('rnnwnt is 11lforing subsidizPd insurnnni to livestock forms for ttw first tinw. in thr fbrm of poliriPs that v;ill protect hog producers l'rorn drops in inrnnw. ThP policies will be• olfon~d on an !'XpPrinwntal basis in Iowa. tlw nation's larg1'st hog producing-state. Oni' typ(' of' covcragP wilt prot('l't against drops in hog-pricPs. A second wi\l bP ti1•d to t1unuations in hog prims and feed 1:osL,;. 
Study links genes to heart disease: 
SciPntists say they have f'ound evidcnce linking thrP<' g1\1Ws to pnmmtun' heart diseasn in what rould bP a stPp tdward a bPttcr scrnpning procc­dtm\ for !'amili<'s at risk. Using ,l nmv technique t:al!Pd high throughput microarrny genotyping to sill tl1rough somr ~0.000 genes. the researchers found that thr<'P produce thrombospondin. The protein governs.blood's ability to riot, a factor in lwarl dis<'ase. ThP study found that families with a variant of a gPnP rallrd thrombospondin-4 WP.n' 89 pl'rn;nt more lik1oly to have a premature hPart attack. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 


Sewer project might need redoing: 
Six monlhs after homes in 20 subdivisions should have bet'n conrrncted to new sewers. less than hall' of' thP $7 million pn~ject is rom­plPted -and that work might ne.cd to be rPdonP. HPsid!:nls of llamilton Township north ol' l\lunr.iP arP angry about aborhod con­struction work that 10!1 roads. yards and dri­VPwa.ys in disrnpair. and $20 monthly intmest f°e(\S that havP bPnn collnrted much longer than nxpnctPd. 
Market Watch November 26 
Dow 

9,92.75 +23.04 


Jones 

CompositeSame: 

Volume:
180 
1.079.384.%0 

AMEX: 803.98 -7.65 NASDAQ: l.941.23 +38.03 NYSE: 588.23 +2.41 S&P 500: 1.157.42 +7.08 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
:OMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ-100 INDEX (QQQ) +2.47 +0.97 40.25 :rsco SYSTEMS (CSCO) +1.74 +0.34 19,93 ENRON CORP (ENE) -14.85 -0. 70 4.01 INTEL CORP (INTC) +2.51 +0.81 31.87 ~MAZON.COM INC (AMZN) +34.47 +3.13 12.21 
GERMANY 

Associated Press 
KOENIGSWINTER 
Afghan factions can exper:t no aid for rebuild­ing their war-ravaged country unless they agree nn a broad-based govern­ment, a senior U.S. official said Monday on the eve of U.N.-sponsored talks. 
"Until there is a govern­ment that is broadly repre­sentative and recognized by us. there's not going to be any rer:onstruction assistance," said the offi­cial, who is close to the. talks and spoke to reporters on condition of anonymity. 
When formal talks start Tuesday, the four Afghan delegations gathering at a stately mansion overlook­ing the Rhine River face intense international pres­sure to reach a consensus on Afghanistan's political future. 
Eighteen nations, includ­ing the United States and Britain, are exerting influ­ence from the corridors, and the U.N. spokesman for Afghanistan said Mondav that the four groups must decide quickly on a securitv force and an interim act'ministration. Ahmad Fawzi's comments came amid fears that the eventual fall of the last Taliban stronghold ­Kandahar -would ignite infighting among the northern alliance. 
The delegates will spend · the duration of the talks at Petersherg, perched on a hilltop above the former German capital of Bonn, and reached by a single road. The secluded loca­tion was chosen not only for security reasons, but also to remove the delega­tions from what Fawzi called "daily pressures," a move the United Nations hopes will give them per­spective to reach a consen­sus. 
"It's a very simple agen­da really," Fawzi said. "We're talking about the possibility to form a transi­tional administration for Afghanistan, as soon as possible because speed is of the essence in view of the situation on the ground." 
Some of the 32 delegates arrived early and started informal discussions Sunday, including those representing ex-King Mohammad Zaher Shah and a group of exiles based in Cyprus. Those conversa­tions continued Monday. 
The United States hopes the promise of billions in aid will help bring about a power-sharing accord 
. among the groups compet­ing for control. 

New process aids cancer patients 
Associated. Press 
CHICAGO 

A single. concentrated dose of radiation mav be as effective as six straight weP-ks of trcatment for women who have had a cancerous lump removed from a breast, pre­liminary research suggests. 
The experimental treatment could make lumpcctomy -a breast-sav­ing type of cancer surgery in which only thH lump is removed -avail­;1ble to many more women. 
Many women who are diagnosed with early breast cancer decide against a lumpectomy because they cannot spend six weeks receiving dailv radiation treatments, said Dr. Jay.ant Vaidya, a surgeon at llniversity College London in England who led the study. 
Mastectomies, or removal of the entire breast, typically do not require radiation. Mastectomies are often the only option for women who live far from cancer treatment centers or find the standard radia­tion schedule unworkable. 
J\n expE>.rimental technique called intra-operative radiotherapy uses a miniature radiation probe right after a lumpectomy. The probe is inserted inside the cavity created by tlrn removal of the tumor. and radi­ati nn equivalent to six weeks of doses is emitted for about 25 min­utes. 
The technique was just as effec­tive as six weeks of radiation in pre­liminary results from Vaidya's study of 29 women, which was prepared for presentation Monday at a meet­ing or the Radiological Society of North America. 
The women all underwent lumpectomios for tumors of less than about 1 1/2 inches. 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 1u~sday, November 6, 2001 
Karle. "People are going to feel more comfortable going to some­one thev'vc had contact with." 
''We're the people out on the front lines that people do come to," Pittman said. 
The formation of the network came from a recommendation from the presi­
Support 
continued from page 1 

College regarding sexuality issues, and many have helped students ½ith sexuality problems before. 
"A stu­dent-appointed
"There was a time when
dent work­Committee on er of mine people wished that issues Holistic Formation, was preg­
ofsexuality would just go which was 
nant and 

assigned the task
away. It's a slow process,
was sure 

of finding a way to
she'd bf' but things have changed." 
discuss sexuality
kicked out issues on campus.

of school," 

Catherine Pittman The group is offi­
said Karle. 

cially sponsored by
"I showed psychology professor 
the College,
her tht> 

handbook where it said no, she wouldn't." 
But the student came to her becaus!' she knew her, Karle said. 
''She was really scared,'' said Pittman said. 
The launching of "Connections" comps on the heels of several cout.roversial sit­uations regarding sexuality at the College during the past year. 
Mu Alpha Theta and the Math 
Department present. .. 
"Animal Populations as Dynamical Systems" by Shandelle Henson, Andrews University 
Tuesday November 27 At 4:30 p.m. 127 Hayes Healy 

NOW LEASINO FOR; 
SPRING SEMESTER 
AND 

2002°2003 SCHOOL YEAR 
HURRY, SPACES ARE FILLING FAST! 
TU~TLE CREEK APARTMENTS l"11 OTURTLS CR.EEK lJRI\'E SOUTH BEND, fN 4f>63'l P; t9-272-lH24 f: i?t9-272,8W4 wv.-w.turtlecl"eckNO.corn 
discussed on campus. The student initiative. 
. 
Administrators last February groups were sparsely attended, But the College-sponsored would not condone an official and many were cancelled. "Connections" could be a sign campus performance of Eve that the College is willing to Ensler's "Vagina Monologues," a . An independent student group more openly discuss issues of critically-acclaimed play dealing formed in early November to sexuality, Pittman said. with issues of women's sexuality, provide abortion clinics escorts. "The tide is shifting," Pittman including date rape, homosexu­distribute condoms from their said. "There was a time when ality and genital mutilation. rooms, provide information people wished that issues of sex­

about STD testing, plannPd par­uality would just go away. It's a 

. 
Small student discussion enthood. birth control and AIDS slow process, but things have groups were convened by ministry. Vice president for stu­administrativ,~ invitations late dent affairs Linda Timm said last Spring to brainstorm ideas af'ter I.he announcement the Contact Noreen Gillespie at about. how sexuality could bfl College "will not support" the gil10843@saintmarys.edu. 


We're not like every · other high-tech company. We're hiring. 
~o one told you the hardest part of being an engineer woutd be finding 
your first job. Of course, its still possible to get the high-tech work 
you want by joining the U:S. Air Force. You can leverage your degree 
immediately. and get hands-on experience with some of the mo~t 
sophisticated technology on earth;To find out how to get your career off 
the ground, call 1-800-423-USAF or visit our Web site at airforce.com. 
• 
\,J
•:• 
U.S. AIR FORC¦ 

n..IJif\pf"..x. ·.......... . ... ,. r .··.· .. .J;J'•·tj ·B·.. •k?
is, anrung your ~ .. r,n .·· · re ·.. 

.. ;).ACAPULCO .. ~)CANCUN ~'"CABO.. :-:~ ·~·JAMAICA 

~) MAZATLAN 
LctFcrluhQ Student Centar 631-7080 -www~'f'rlhcmyfrttvd.com 
---------------------------·-­
Tuesday, November 27, 200 I 7hr Observer . BUSINESS NEWS nage 7 
======================~-=-=-==-~=====================================================================~r~ 
Firm professes it cloned embryo 
SAN FH/\NCISUl 
,\ 1f'Stilll11'11l lo tilt' aggr<'S­SiVPlll'SS or ('hjf•I' PXPl'.UliVt' :'l.·1idiaf•I VVr•sl. ,\dvann!d CP!l Tnrlmology g;u-n<•rt>d a whirl­wind ol' p11hlicity ,vith its claim lo he th1· first Lo drnw a human Pill bryo. 
Tlw acn,mplishnwnt is prP­li111i 11ary. thougli. and by no mPans guarnntPPS SUf'.t'l)SS in a Lough business climate. CompPlilors !'.!aim paLPnts and Pxr·lusivr' 1·0111rnP1Tial rights to rloning and Llw production ol' human .-mhrvonk stem f'Plls ­lhl' u!timatP 'gmd of' 1\dvancc,d CPI!. 
Poli1irnl opposition is f'ormi­dablt' as W<'II -a I lous<' bill niminalizing h11man cloning awaits ddialc· in tlw SPmttP and l'rnsi<ll'nt Bush on \londav mike! .\dvanrPd C1,11·s work "bad P\tllli1· policy and morally wrong. 
In an inlPrvinw Mondav, WPst dPf'<'1HIPcl his dPf'isim1 in annou11cc' tlw lt'nlativP brPak­through. 
"\VP didn't havP anv ulLPrior motivPs. W<• simply \.~·.rntPd to ad van rP sciP llCP an cl nwd i ­l'inc'," W.-sL said. "I have' a sc•nsc' of' urgPnc·y, bPrausc' pco­pl1! an• dying." 
StPm rrlls an• thought to lw tlw raw maLPrials o[' life lwraus1• llwy grow into t!w 200 di[forPnl adult c('lls that mak(• up [II(' human !1ody. SciPnlists hopP tlwy can roax human Plllbryonic sll'lll cPlls to grow into rPplacnnw11t n'lls lo hPal thn sirk and ailing. 
Hut sonw support\:rs of slt•m \'Pl! n·s1'nrd1 said \Vpst's anno111H·('ll1Pllt Sunday in the n-lativt'ly unknown onli1w jour­nal l'-bionwd: Tim Journal of' ll.1•g.-1wrativP :\fodicinc mav sl'l back progrnss, sine!' il lai·kPd sullki<'nt sdnntific data. 
IL wasn't dm1r wlwtlrnr tho 1•mbrvos AdvanrPd Ct,IJ donml \\Olil~I lw capable or growing into a human bning. Tlw nmbryos diPd cvr\11 bcforn any stl'lll cells W!'I'<' produced. 
Univl'l'sity of' Pennsylvania hiocLhicist GIPnn M('Gt:c rnsignNI from lhn company's f!thics advisory board last year lwcausn lw said West wasn't lwing public miough with his ros11arf'.!1. Now. McGcn says Wnst made 1.hn opposiw mis­tak<' -too much publicity without anv substanc<>. 
"This guy is tlw worst night­111,u·c of it all," saiJ :VkGcP. lk: sugg<~st<•d West marlti tlw announ<·nmcnt prematurely in pan to stake a dairn to human cloning as its nxdusivP inttdlPc­lual µropcrty -a chargP Wnsl dfmicd. 
Tlw U.S. Patent Offirn has rPj<'<'tPd pn-vious rPqucsts !'or patents involving human cloning. "Wn do not issuP patPnts on human beings," said l'atPnt Office spokesman Hirhard l\.laulsby. 
Nonctlwlcss, Advanwd Cnll did n'cniv11 a patent for tnch­110l ogy invoh·ing non-human mammals in May. Wnst claims that patPnt also givc1s tlrn com­pany Pxclusivc rights to prnlit from cloning human embryos to obtain "inner cell mass mils." 

Educating Lawyers for 
Stocks soar in online retail 

g;:::f;If.,:.::~ii~;;~~({:(:':_,ife 
comprehensive curriculum. enhanced by the Catholic intellectual tradition. _prepare graduates to practice law at the highest level. Whether a student aspires to private practice, public service, or service as in-house counsel, the Ave Maria faculty inspires students to see law as both a profession and a vocation. ln the past two years, we have received applications from 47 states and several countries. Our students compare with those at several of the nation·s leading law schools-25% of this year·s entering class scored in the top I0% on the LSAT. Quality students. Committed faculty.. Professional atmosphere. Ave Maria provides a rewarding education for law and life. 

Date:  Wednesday, November 28, 200 I  
Time:  9 p.m.  
Place:  Notre Dame Room. Second Floor of  
Lafortune Student Center  
Topic:  Applring Th a11cl S11cceedi11g in Law Sc/too{  
Presenter:  Michael Kenney. Dean ofAdmissions  

Piau anu soda sponsorl!d hy Ave Maria S.::honl of Law 
O.tfice ofAdmissions 
3475 Plymouth Road• Ann Arhor, Michigan• 48105-2550 • 734.827.8063 info@avemarialaw.edu • www.avemarialaw.edu 
Associated Press 

Nl!WYOHK 
Ba.s('d 011 t)ar!y salf's rnports, tlw holiday shopping season appnarnd tu be off to a bnttcr­than-expnctPd start f'or online rntailPrs. ThP ,wws pushed shar!'s of kny lntcrirnt stocks higlwr in trading Monday. 
Shams or Amazon.com, thP IJC'llwcthcr of' the lnwruet indus­try, surged morn than 34 per­nmt, or $:3. 13. dosing at $12.21 on th() Nasdaq Stock Market, on ('arly indications that holiday sales growth may bo better tha11 uxpected. In extnnded trading. Amazon shares vvnrn up another 27 CPnls. 
Ya.hoo 1 Shopping estimated that sales through its portal site from f.riday tp Sunday, the Thanksgiving weok<'ml. were 7:i percent higher than the same linw a year ago. Thal was well above analysts' projections for a :rn percent lo 50 pcrcmit gain. Tlw n0ws prompted Yahoo's shanis to soar nearly 15 percent, or $2.H, closing al $18.07. Shares wcro up another 15 cents in extcmded trading. 
MAanwhile, Km art's Bluelight.corn saw sales up 45 percent for Thursday through Sunday. compared to the year­ago holiday week1rnd, said spokesman Dave Karraker. Trafiic was unchanged, suggest­ing that more browsnrs were being convertPd into buyers. 
"This is a great start for us, and exceeded cxpeclations," Karraker said. "This should silencn a lot of nay-savers who were dmvn on the· pot;rntial for e-commerce this year." 
He added, "We didn't even nffor any shipping promotions or dollars off discounts," he said. 
Still. such coml'orting news 
Law
::;:::•· .--· 
won't prompt KP11 Cassar. an an11 lyst at ,I upitPr ll<'S<lurch, to chang1• his f'<1rccasts f'or a mod­est 11 pmcont gain this holiday to $1 I .9 billion, l'rom last year's $10.8 billion. 
"The early i11dications snPm to be posiliw. but it is diflkult to extrapolate those results to tho entirn <H'.ommPrco community," he said. 
Cassar said that e-rmnrnerc(i has lost its "gf!t!-whiz" !'actor. and is morn vulnnrablc to the slowing t'conomy this year. 
With Lhn exception of Amazon.corn, brick and mortar retailers' onlinc sites were among the most p<ipular this weekend. 
According to Nielsen/Netltatings, Amazon led the tranic on Friday, attracting 
l.7 million users, rngistering a 33 percent incroaso from tho prnvious week. 
Wal-Mart saw a l 32 percnnt inrrnase to :{5:i,011 shoppers, followed by Target.com, which attracted 312,000 shoppers, or a 
152 percent  gain.  Kmart's  
Bluelight.corn  saw  227,000  
shoppers,  a  227  percent  

incrPase. and Sears drew 220,000 visitors, up 73 percent. 
J.C. Penney Co. Inc., grew to 217,000 visitors, an increasfl of 86 percent. 
The big test for online retailers will be in tlrn next two weeks. which repres1mts the bulk of onlinc holiday sales. 
Cassar is looking for an increase of 25 percent to 50 per­cent in salBs each of those weeks, ho said. During the week of Dec. 10, e-commerce sales will start to warn~ because stan­d a rd shipping will no longer guarantee the arrival of gifts in time for Christmas. 
Internet analysts are closely 

watching Amazon. whi('h pro111is<'d pro-l'orma prolil.abilily in tlw fourth quartf'r and pro­jPctPd that. sail's for thP 1wriod would lw anvwlwrn l'rom un<·hangnd to a 10 pn1-cN1t gain l'rom a ynar ago. 
Amazon rPportPd on 1-'ridav that its customPrs worldwid;, had ordnn•d rnor<' than 8.1) mil­1ion items sinre Nov. 9. On Monday. tlw onlinP r<'tu/ir;r inrroascd that number tu 11.8 million. ThP Snattln-basnd c-tail­nr also rnportcd that 700,000 more itnms WPrn ordnrPd during tlw past th rPe-d ay wnnkPtHI compared with last year's holi­day weekend, according tn Bill Curry, an Arnazoi1 spoknsman. 
The e-tailnr also dedarnd that it was back to "shopping as usual." Sales of DVD players worn up 75 percent, from a ynar ago. and Harry Pottnr hooks replaced books on germ warfare and Osama Bin Laden as thn top selll)rs. 
"So far, so good," said Jpolil Patel, a.n analyst at. Dnutsclw Banc Alex.Brown. "Holiday salns for Amazon.com have been prPt· ty brisk." 
Patel said that his analysis of' what thn company calls its "Delight-o-meter" rnvealnd a 41 percent gain in the number of items sold from Nov. 15 through Monday, which surpassed his projections for a 30 perr<'nt to 35 percent growth. 
In a report. issued Monday, IIenry Blodgct, the Internet ana­lyst at Morrill Lynch. said that his analysis of the Dclight-o­Metm· suggests that daily items sold in the past two weeks is approximately 20 pnrccnt to 30 pnrcent higher than in the sanw two wfleks last year. That means that "Amazon is likely tracking slightly ahead of consensus rev­enue estimates for the quarter, which calls for ;i percent growth," he wrote. 
Wall Street analysts and evnn Amazon are quick to point out that unit growth may not corre­late directly to revenue growth, because of sevBral factors. 
!i!if)t .-:~=::::::::::}::::::::: --· -~-ili!iifii~!i~//Iif~;!i!ii!iI/i!~!ii!liiftii!:{iiiif!fliil!I!I!i!ii!l~~~!!!lifJ!i!iii!i!I!!!!tif~:!?1~}ilti//i: 




Thr Observer . ~AID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, November 27 . .2.00 I
======-=-=====================~~~~~~=-----=--===­
A· CU LTU RE·O F· LIFE 
The Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture's Second Annual Conference All sessions are open to the public. Conference events will be held in McKenna Hall unless otherwise noted. 
An interdisciplinary conference dedicated to examining the possibilities far building a genuine culture oflife in the modern world 


Thursday, November 29 
7:30-9:00 p.itt. "John Paul II: A Life for Life" (Auditorium) George Weigel 
Friday, November 30 
9:00-10:15 a.m. Colloquium Sessions 
Session 1: Literary and Symbolic Reflections on a Culture of Life (Room 210-214) "Ritual and Respect for Life" , 
Jason Bell and Lenn E. Goodmat( "Look at Me: Ralph Ellison's lnvirihle M,m and the Ethics of Recognition" 
Brian Braman "Character, Choke, and Harry Potter". David Deavel and Catherine Jack 
Session 2: Social Justice (Audirorimn) "Simone Weil: HUJll,Ul Rights and Human Obligations" 
E. Jane Doering "Mammon's Deadly Grin: 1 he New Gospel ofWealth and the Old Gospel of Life" 
Eugene McC.arraher "Bevond Policies as Usual: Is Reconciliation Compatible wich Liberal Democracy?" 
Daniel Philpott 

Session 3: The Nature of the Culture (Room 200) ''The Architecture of Lifo" Benjamin J. Bmxvoorc Lipscomb "'Wnac is a Culture of Life?" Hans Allhoff "Christ, the Culture of Life: Towards a Theandric Culi:ure" Donald Jacob Uirvlugt ..... "'··.· 
Session 4: Medical Research and a Culture ofLife (Ro'orn 
202) "The Human Genome Project and the Catholic Theologil;a! Tradition" 
Patricia Powers "Challenge and Response: A Christian Peri.pecrive on):, Generics" 
Clint Ashley 

Session 5: Intentions, Ends, and Effects (Room 2 "The Culture qfLife and Foundations" ·· Damian Fedoryka "Accepting Side-Eff«is, Proportionalism Vocation" Robert Joseph Matav\l "Intention and the Dd>ate over Stem Cell ~arch• Robert Miner 
10:45 a.m.-12:00 Invifui Papers 
Session 1: "Betweei,i,rthe Beasts and God'' (~m: 
i Gilbert Meilacndq: 
Session 2: Christianltyand Punishment(A,tpljtqtiu "Punishing Christi#ls" ·· •.,,,, Stanley Hauerwas. · "The Devil's Dignify: Concentrated Thoughts o~.t:apital Punishment" Ralph Mdnerriy c 
Session 3: Religious Qrders: A Panel Discussion (Room 210­
214) 
.Pa.tie#•···•· 

Session 1: "A Culture dfUfe in aPost-Christian Age'' (R.dOro 210-214) 
H. Tristrarn Engelhardt 


Session 2: The Culuitt ofLife After September 1 l:APanel 
Discussion (Audifoiium) Michael Baxtet' · ····· Thomas Hibl:w ·"'··•· John Haldane 

. 

Session 3: "Joy and the Cultul'e ofLife" (Room 202} Sidney Callahan 
3: 15-4:45 p.m. Colloquium Sessions 
Session 1: Reviving Christian Concepts (Room 206) 
"John Paul I! and rhe Meaning of St1ffl"ring: Reflections on 
Sa/vifici Doloris" 

J.·Daryl Charles "Responsibility and rhe Ethics ofHospiraliry" 
Arthur Sutherland "Fear and Loving in Ethics: Toward a Philosophical Conception ofSelf-Donative Human Flourishing" 
Kalynne Hackney Pudner 

Session 2: Ethical Theory and a Culture of Life (Room 208) "If Biodiversity is Good, Should We Affirm Erhicodiversiry?" Edwin Bagley "Wl1y Practical Reason Needs the Virmes" 
Fulvio Di Blasi "W11en Philosophy Stopped Breathing: Beyond the Ghost in rhe Machine" 
Eugene Halton 

Session 3: The Family, Intimacy and a Culture ofl,ife (Room 200) "Philosophical Analysis of the lntimacy and its Rights" 
Pedro Pallares "The Virtues ofAcknowledged Dependence and rhe Practice of Parenthood" 
Gregory Beabout 

Session 4: Freedom, Dignity, and the Common Good 
(Auditorium) "The Dignity of Human Persons at rhe Margins of Biological Life" 
John F. Kavanaugh., S.J. "Freedom's Dependence on Truth: John Paul and the Voices from Cemral Europe" 
Michael Sherwin, O.P. "The Common Good and the Culture of Life" Arthur Madigan, S.J. 
Session 5: Aquinas and Kant (Room 202) "Neo-Kamian Pertectionism?: Joseph Raz and the Liberation of Duey" 
Geoff Bowden "Finite Rational Beings and Dependent Rational Animals" 
Patrick Paul Kain ''Thomas's Metaphysics of Morals: Providence, Freedom, and Natural Law" 
Steven Long 

Session 6: Hospitality and the Culture of Life (Room 210-214) "Biblical Hospitality and rhe Spirituality of Conversation" Aurelie Hagstrom "Learning to be Hospitable" 
RidwdK,w 

"HospitalityaJ1d Christiai1 Higher Education" Elizabeth Newman , ~HospiraHty: t{.e~~fining the City and the Soul" Scott Moore 

''Pain, Grief and Other Signs of Life'' Ct\uditorium) Alasdair Madnryre 
Saturday, December 1 
9:00-IO:15 a.m. Colloquium Sessions 
Session 1: Relationships and Ethics in a Culture of Life 
(Auditorium) "Aquinas's Virtues ofAcknowcdged Dependence: A New Measure ofMoral Greatness" 
Rebecca Konyndyk DeYoung "Metaphysics and the Virtues ofAcknowledged Dependence" John O'C.tllaghan "Persuading Thrasymachus: Rationality and Relationality" Moira Walsh 
Session 2: l..ega1 Issues (Room 200) "American Federalism and the Culture of Life" Michael Moreland "Sr. Thomas Aquinas, Natural Law, and rhe Right to Life" Sean Raftis, S.J. 
Session 3: Contemporary Healthcare and a Culture of Life 
(Room 210-214) "Contemporary Healthcare and the Gospel Mtssage" 
Robert Barnet, M.D.. M.A. "Dying Wdl and the Culmre ofLife: The Promise of Palliative Care" 
John Berkn1an "Institutional Integrity and the Culture of Life" Ana Smith lids 
Session 4: Politics and a Culture ofLife (Room 206) "The Median Voter Principle :u1d Advanciiig the Culture of Life" 
John Pisciotta "The Challenge of Moral lmegralion: Reconciling the Demands of'Reasonableness' and Religion in a Constitutional Democracy" 
David Thunder 

Session 5: The University and the Culture of Life (Room 202) "The University and Christian Humanism: The Basis of a Culture of Life" 
Juan Amezquita "The lmellecrual Life and the Lives of Intellectuals" 
Kevin McDonnell "The Life ofCultnrt': Communion and rhe Connection of the Intellectual Virtues" Christopher H. Toner 
Session 6: Youth, Vocation and a Culture of life (Room 208) "Teenagers and the Need for Transcendence" Mariangela Sullivan "The Vocation of a Christian" Nathaniel L. Hannan 
l 0:45 a.m. -12:00 Invited Papers 
Session I: Africa and the Culture of Life (Auditorium) "Africa's Mfasionary Pase and the Culture of Life" Paul Kollman, C.S.C. "Preaching the Gospel ofLifi: in a Milieu of Death" Paulinus Odozor, C.S,Sp. "The African Churches and the Culture of Life" Mosr Reverend John Onaiyekan 
Session 2: Integrating Faith, Scholarship, and Teaching (Room 
202) Michael Beaty Don Briel Paul Griffiths 

Session 3: Christiarury and Marriage: A Panel Discussion 
(Room 210-214) Helen Alvare Laura Garcia Margaret Monahan Hogan 
1:30-2:45 p.m. Invited Papers 
Session 1: "Wojtyla Among the Moral Philo~ophers" (Room 202) 
Jorge Garcia 

Session 2: "Centesimus Annus Ten Years Later: John Paul II on the Munus Regale" (Auditorium) 
Russell Hitti nger 

Session 3: Marriage-Legal and Moral Considerations (Room 210-214) "Contemporary Marriage and the Law" Gerard Bradley "Marriage as Domestic Friendship" Scott Fitz.Gibbon 
3:I 5-4:45 p.m. , Colloquium Sessions 
Session l: Issues in Contemporary Bioethics (Room 202) "Commw1iry Based Participacory Research as an Instrument of Public E<lu~ation/Engagement and Social/Racial Justice in Bioethics" 
Carherine Myser and Douglas 'foylor "Using Experience with the Violently M,ntally Ill to Ethically Integrate Molecular Medical Advances" 
John Young, C.S.C., M.D. 
Session 2: Law and a Culture of Life (Auditorium) "Respect for Life: The Foundation ofLaw" 
Richard Stich "Responsibility and Punishment through the Lens of Virtue Ethics" 
Karen Stohr "Why the Death Penalty? Capital Punishment and the Catholic Tndition" 
Christopher Kaczor 

Session 3: Reproduction and the Body (Room 200) "Divorce Rate-Comparison Betv.'een Couples Using Natural Family Planning and Artificial Birth Control" 
Mercedes Arzu Wilson "Having Babies in a Culture of Life: What Anscombe's Ethics Omits" 
Heidi Giebel "Sacramental Sexuality: Why Valuing Life Takes Grammar of Faith" 
T. Scott Daniels 

Session 4: Dignity and a CultUle ofLife (Room 208) "Our Soul Saving Grace? The Practice of Human Dignity'' Lisa Bellantoni "On Finding an Adequate Conception of Dignirr" Carol Quinn 
Session 5: Personhood and a Culture ofLife (Room 210-214) 
"Sophrony Sakhrov on the Resurrection ofthe Human Pei:son through rhe Remembrance of Death: A Contemporary Eastern Orthodox Proposal" 
Perry T. Hamalis "A Better Vision: Evangelium Vitae and Conremporary Applied Ethics" 
Thomas Kelly 

Session 6: Education and a Culture ofLife (Room 206) "Back to the Basics: Probacion in Education" 
Terrence Crowe "The Gifts of the Spirir: An Apologia for Metaphysics in High Schools" 
Raquel Frisardi "The Promise of Catholic Studies" Msgr. Richard Liddy 
5:00 p,m. Ma~s (Basilica of the Sacred Heart) 
----·-·-­
Tuesday, November 27, 200 I The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
SPAIN 


"INDIVIDUALS SHOULD FREE THEMSELVES FROM EVERY FORM OF SLAVERY -SLAVERY TO PEOPLE, SLAVERY TO OPINION, SlAVERY TO THE ADMIRA­TION OF OTHERS. Bur AFfER HAVING 
FREED THEMSELVES, THEY SHOULD BE CAREFUL NOT TO BECOME SLAVES TO FREEDOM." 
WHO SAID THIS? 
No, not Artistotle, Plato, or Cicero. 
It was the Arab philosopher, 
IBN KHALDUN. 
( 14TH CENTURY) 
READ HIM 11\i THE ORIGINAL! 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT 
Classics Dept 1-7195 or e-mail: Joseph.P.Amar.1@nd.edu 
Arabic Lanauaoe Courses 
Beginning Arabic 
MEAR tol 
Continuing Arabic 
MEAR 103 
Graduate Arabic 
MEAR 5011503 
Directed Readings
(with permission) 
MEAR 497 

Literature and Civilization 
Revelation to Revolution: Jews, Cristians, Muslims up to 1000 AD 
MELC 241 (Crosslist: HIST 242, 
MRLT 356) 

Intro. to Islamic Civilization /in Engl_ish) , MELC 244 (Crossl1st: (HST 244, AI\TH 344, SOC 244) 

•
Study in the nation's capitol 

•Work 
in an internship 

•
Fulitll philosophy, 


theology, and f1ne :'-~_Y:arts requirement 
if•Study public fairs. 
AppJicaf
FaII 2()(Js for 
Sprin 22 & 
are 00 g 003 accepte~ be(ng
onhne 

•Open to Sophom Juniors,. Seni 
Police: suspects knew of attacks 
and Combat.
• Investigators 
Cotino said police had
trying to establish 

considerable circumstan­concrete links tial evidence of the groups' links to the Sept.
between suspects, 

11 attacks, echoing whatSept. 11 attacks Garzon said in his indict­ment. Cotino said Yarkas had met. several times in
Associated Press 

Madrid with Mohamed 
Boualem Khnouni, alias 
MADRID Abdallah, the alleged 
Describing Osama bin leader of the Algerian 
Laden's terrorist network group arrested in 
as "a tree with many September. 
roots," Spain's police "The last time they mf1t 
chief' said on Monday that was some 15-20 days 
two key suspects in before Sept. 11," Cotino 
Spanish custody met in said. "They met in the 
Madrid shortly before the street, shook hands and 
Sept. 11 walked 
attacks together. We 
and knew ''Terrorism groups of have no idea that the this sort don't just what they 
W or Id talked 
TradP. center on a single about." Center country, but try to Police 
and the believe
spread out. There
Pentagon Yarkas is the were tar­have been arrests most impor­gets. tant al-Qaida
here but there have
Spanish figure investiga­been arrests detained so tors are far in Spain.
elsewhere too.,, 
trying to But despite a establish wave of concrete Juan Cotino arrests, I i n k s Cotino cau­
national police chief 
between 14 sus­pected Islamic extremists in custody here and at least one of' the suicide hijackers involved in the terrorist attacks on the United States, national police chief Juan Cotino said. 
"The leaders of these organizations may not have known the details, but they did know the targets that were to be attacked," Cotino said during a meeting Monday with a small group of journalists. 
The Spanish probe is focusing on !mad Eddin Barakat Yarkas, the accused leader of eight suspects indicted in Spain last week on suspi­cion of helping to pre­
pare the attacks,  Cotino  
said,  
According to  an  indict­ 

ment, Yarkas' Madrid phone number appeared in an address book found in an apartment in Hamburg, Germany where hijacker Mohamed Atta lived. Police say Atta visited Spain twice this year, in January and July, but they have revealed little about what he did then or whom he met. 
Six Algerian suspects were arrested in Spain cm Sept. 26 and suspect­ed of membership in the bin Lad en-financed Salafist Group for Call tioned that 
his country 
was "not the 

nerve center" for al-Qaida operations. 
"Terrorism groups of this sort don't just center on a single country. but try to spread out," Cotino said. "There have been arrests here but there have been arrests else­where too." 
He compared bin Laden to "a tree with many roots," that extended well into Spain. 
"Undoubtedly, what we have come to call the 'dormant cells' in Spain were not in fact so dor­mant. They were not just here for no reason. They were here, and traveled to other places." Catino said, referring to sus­pects' contacts with bin Laden representatives around Europe and trips to training camps in Afghanistan, Bosnia and Indonesia. 
Cotino said police had been following Yarkas, who also used the name Abu Dahdah, since 1996 and that he is directly linked with bin Laden chiefs stationed in Europe and elsewhere. 
Through intercepted phone calls, police say Yarkas reforred to the Sept. 11 attacks during cryptic conversations with people who lived in the same Hamburg apart­ment where Atta had lived. 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Tuesday, November 27, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Rox Q. Nom De1mc. IN 46556 024 Sou,h Dinin;; Hall. Note< Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR Noreen Gillespie  BUSINESS MANAGER flob Woods  
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR Kerry Smith  OPERU!0NS MANAGER Pat Peccrs  

NEWS EDirOR: Jason McFarlev V1Ew·ro1Nr EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amscadrer SCENE EDITOR: C Spencer Beggs SAJNT MARY'S EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EmroR: Perer Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Mem.e SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvd Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CoNfROLI.lR: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS Eonoru Kade McKennil 
CONTACT Us OmcE MANAGER/GENERAi. INFO............. 631-7471 FAX........................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING....................................631-69()()/8840 
ohscrvad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF.. ............................6,1 l-4542 MA.'IAGING ED!TOR/AssT. ME....... ...........631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-53I 3 NEWS.................. .............631-5323 
observer.obsnews. I@nd.edu 
YiEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 obse1ver.viewpoint.I@nd.edu SPORTS. .......................631-4543 observer.sports. I@nd.edu SCENE....... . ........................... 6.~I-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SA!lff MARY'S.............................................63 l--!324 
observer.srnc. l@nd.edu PHOTO... ............. ... ..... .......... 631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edlt for daily updates ofcan1pus nevvs, sports, foanues and opinion columns, as well as Glrtoons, reviews and breaking news from rhe Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 

niovies/music for 
minute forecasts 

weekly studenc reviews 
advertise for policies 

online features for spe­
and rares ofprint ads 

cial campus coverage 
archives m search for 

about The Observer 
articles published alier 

m meet the editot5 and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published it1 print and online by rhe smdents of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Maiy's College. Editorial content. including advertisements, is no, governed by policies of,he administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves rhe right w refuse advertisements based on contenc 
The news is reported as accurmely and objectively as possible. l,;nsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Edimr, Assistam Managing Editm and department editors. Cornmcnraries. letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions rhrOL1gh letters is encouraged. Le,rers to ,he Editor must be signed and must include conracr information. 
Qumions reg,1rding Ohsnva policies ;hort!d be dimt­ed tv Edi1or i11 CbufM,ke Comwlly. 
Legalize all drugs 
I am sir.k and tired of paying for every• one else's illegal drug habit. It enrages me that I have to involuntarily con­tribute thousands of dollars for drug abusers in this country. Thal's 
John Litle
why I advocate 
legalizing all 

forms ofdrugs, for everyone. Frankly 
Without even Obnoxious taking money into consideration, I don't see any good reason to ban drugs. Ifsome junkie wants to go get high every weekend of' his life, line by me. He's not hurting me in any way. It's just one less guy vying for my job. Ifsome druggie overdoses on crack. it certainly isn't my problem. It becomes my prob­lem when the government expects me to pay to resuscitate him. 
I really couldn't cam less what anyone else wants to do with their time, so long as they aren't interfering with other people's rights. I know many students on this campus would disagrnn. We have to cam for nveryone. they might say. Wo have to show compassion, limy might claim. Indeed. those are nice sentiments. Thank God we live in a free country wlrnre citizens are allowed to choose their own charities. Go ahead, donate to your local drug rehabilitation center, I just don't care to do the same at our currnnt junctun~. 
Imagine how much money could be saved if we closed the narcotics unit of every police station, disbanded the DEA and stopped pumping money into drug producing countries in failing efforts to stop the flow ol'drugs. It could be amaz­ing. Tax-free day could move to the brginning of May instead of the middle. That would hnlp our economy for sure. 
And imagin<i how the prices or former­ly illegal drugs would bottom out. The business would become far less prof­itable, and thus, the business would 
become less violent, volatile, and demand over time could drop as tho rebellious nature or drug usll is 
removod. We could even tax the incom­ing shipment<; of' drugs like we tax tobacco. After all, tobacco is our own drug, only legal because it is so prof­itable to our government and is pro­duced right here in the good ole U.S.A. We could make the same money off the crack and heroin. 
In mv discussions with others on this topic s~me have brought up the idea that, with drugs legalized, the incidence of other crimes, such as theft, would increase as users sought money to con­tinue their habit; or ev1m that random intoxicated mayhem would increase as a result of more access to drugs. Though I disagrne with the premise as a whole (citing the fact that the cost of drugs would declinfl) Ishould addrnss tlrn point of intoxicated crime. Th1\re has to be harsh. merciless punishnrnnt of those who commit crimes under the inllwmc<~ of' now-legal drugs. The mossagn is that though you may do whatever you want when it is only affecting you, should you infringe on tlrn rights of otlrnrs, your punishment will bc swift and harsh. 
It wouldn't bc as difficult to make this a practice as one might think. With all the narcotics and DEA oflicers seiiking reassignment, it would not be diflicult to redirect their efforts to punishing those who would take their fre0doms for granted. 
Still othPrs argue that tlrn cost to sor.i­dy would undoubtedly incrnas<i, as tlw increase of p(wsons admitt1id to th<• hos­pital for drug rP!atPd problcms would incrnase. This.could I)() a valid argu­nrnnt, as cer.tainly more peoplc would overdose and need medical attention. 
Fortunately the solution to this problem 
is easy. If one wants the cost to society 
to decrease, society shouldn't pay. After 
all, it was the individual. not society as a whole, who decided to take drugs and OD. so why should (WMyorrn else haw to pay fur it'? I know I certainly have no interest in funding the hospitalization of junkies. 
"Oh, but that's so harsh," one might reply. Indeed. But perhaps not as harsh as a clean-cut American f'amily barely being able to survive bncausc all the money they should be fren to spend on food and common necessities goes to a government more concnrnncl with thn wdfarc of sellish drug addicts who know they ran get bailed out, unlik11 thn family, whencvnr tlrny screw up. 
In sum, drugs should bP Inga! bneausn I don't want to pay to keep people from using I.hem, I don't want to pay to try and rehabilitatn them, I certainly don't want to pay to incarcerate tlwm and I don't care to pay to heal tlwm. You shouldn't nit.her, Perhaps I am a rnld­lwartnd jerk; p<irhaps I just bombardnd you with more pragmatism than you ('.an stand. Either way, I fed l am lining fair. All I ask is that pnoplP's rights lw as uninhibited as possibln and that tlwy takn rnsponsibility for tlll'ir d1•c-isions. whatnvnr tlwy may Im -and that I not IHLV<\ to pay for it. 
John Utle is a junior ,\;/JS major who is a libertarian, nol a Hep1tblimn. lie appreciates any feedback on his u•ork and can he contacted al Jt;lle@ncl.edu or 011 the !\'IJToclay.com message hoards . "Frankly Oh11oxio1ts" runs e1wry other T11esdcty. 
The l'ieu•s expressed in Ihis column are those(!/' tlw author and not neces­sctrily those<!/' The Ohseruer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Davie lacks Irish spirit 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Helena Payne Courtney Boyle Elizabeth Lee Sports Bryan Kronk 
Viewpoint 
Kristin Ycrnm 
Scene 

Chris Scott 
C. Spencer Beggs 
Graphics 
Andy Devoto 
Production 
Noah Amstadter 
lab Tech 
Peter Richardson 
I'm writing two years after being vilified for suggnsting that the students boo Bob Davie at the pep rally and that Mike Wadsworth was not what we n(ieded as athlntic director. I now seem to be a prophet, and, although I certainly hopl) that a decision has already been readrnd, I would like to firn one final salvo tu satisfy my thirst for "blood." 
I'm not going to focus on the coaching aspect -the blown timeouts, lack of' organization, worse record against ranked teams than Gerry Faust, etc. -that record spnaks for itself. I'm going to focus on what an awrul representative Bob Davie is for Notre Dame. 
I'm going to give credit for my comments to a very bright band member, whose call to WMVP in Chicago l heard whihi driving home from Mishawaka to Chicago aller tlrn Stanford game -he summed it up very wnll. This astute band mmnber stated that Mike Brey frequently has meetings in the dorms and encourages a large presence on campus for himself and the basketball team -kudos to Coach Brey for that. 
I was a student during the Faust and lloltz years, and both men, with diflflring success on the field, were giants on campus -their love for Notre Danw was never questioned. Bob Davie's love for Bob Davie seems to be the only thing not in question in this r<'gime. But t.lm most telli11g cmnmunt of all by this band 
OBSERVER/NDTODAY.COM POLL QUESTION 
Given Bob Davie's statement that he will resign "under zero circumstances" do you think we will have a new coach next year? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
nrnmbnr was that, whim the tnam was 0-:1. tlw band took it upon tlrnmselves to suprise them at practil:P with sonw inspira­tion. Davin promisnd a victory over Pitt and a gam() ball for tlw band. Apparently, tlrn band is still waiting for its ganw ball. Tlw man simply does not ranr, and that, more than anything, is tlw reason lw should b<' "kicked to the curb." 
1lovo my alma mater morn than words can evnr exprnss. In that vein, I wrote a letter to Father Malloy and Dr. White !both of wlrnm I trust complotely in tlrnir respect for this University and its football program), stating that my contribution this ynar would be specifically targeted toward any buyout nxp<mses in the contract of the !mad l'ootball coach and that I would like my check rnturnt1d if it is not used as intended. 1cPrtainly see that Notre Dame is about much. much morn than l'ootball, but foot­ball is our public fac1\ to most of' the world. l am Jlot asking !'or national championships 1wnry year -just a passion l'or Notn• Dame from an excdlent football coach who will throw himsdf into tlrn job and do things the Notrn Dame way. Now, Dr. Whit<i, go do tlm right thing. 
Kevin Keane 
class of '88 
Nov. 26, 1001 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Taxes are what we pay .fbr civilized society. " 
Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr. Supreme Court Justice 
Tuesday, November 27, 2001

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
NFL NCAA FOOTBALL 
Boes upset Rams 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS 
The Tampa Bay Buccaneers, on the verge of elimination from the playoff race, needed some fire. Warren Sapp obliged. 
The Buccaneers upset the St. Louis Rams 24-17 Monday night as the 300­pound defensive tackle, who had just three sacks coming into the game, added two more against Kurt Warner, forced a fumble and spent much of the game in the St. Louis backfield. 
'Tm usually the firestarter here," Sapp said. "When I'm having a good time, every­body feeds off me." 
Mike Alstott ran for touch­downs of 7 and 8 yards, and Warrick Dunn scored from 21 yards out early in the fourth quarter to break a 17­ali tie. 
Two late interceptions sealed the win and kept the Bucs (5-5) in the NFC playoff race. The loss dropped St. Louis (8-2) into a tie for first in the NFC West with San Francisco. 
"We all came in here with a purpose," Sapp said. "This is our season. We got to beat the greatest show on earth to get it done." 
But the win didn't come easy. 
With 6:30 left, the Bucs had a fourth-and-inches at the St. Louis 10 following a blocked punt by Ronde Barber. Instead of trying a field goal that would have given them a 10-point lead, they went for it and got the first down. 
But three plays later, Brian Young intercepted Brad Johnson's pass and the Rams reached the Bucs 42 before Donnie Abraham intercepted Warner's fourth-down pass to quell that threat. 
The Rams got the ball back with 2: 3 5 1 e ft, but John Lynch intercepted Warner's 
first pass to clinch it. 

''You can't throw an inter­ception in that situation," coach Tony Dungy said. "Thank goodness for our defense: It got the ball back for us two times." 
The Rams, who beat Tampa Bay 11-6 here in the NFC title game two seasons ago and lost 38-35 in Tampa last season, moved up and down the field all night but managed just one TD. They fumbled three times and took over the NFL lead in turnovers with 32. 
"We just looked at what was realistic," Tampa Bay linebacker Derrick Brooks said. "Healistic is that they score a lot of points 
So we made the change." 

The Bucs led 10-9 at half­time although they were out­gained 210-95. 
Jeff Wilkins' 44-yard field goal on the opening drive gave the Rams a 3-0 lead, but only after Warner threw three straight incomplete passes, missing a wide-open Isaac Bruce in the end zone on first down. 
Alstott's 7,yard run 1:41 into the second quarter gave the Bucs a 7-3 lead. It came at the end of a 54-yard drive that began when Sapp recov­ered a fumble by Bruce. 
Wilkins made it 7-6 with a 42-yard field goal 5 minutes before halftime. But Tampa Bay got the t h r e e 
but they "Nobody's happy about this. points back lead the on Martin
but that's life. We don't have 
league in G r a m ­
turnovers." the time or opportunity to atica's 36­
Warner sit down and feel sorry for y a rd er finished 19-after Sapp
ourselves."
of-39 for s a c k e d 291 yards Warner and and had Mike Martz forced a three of the fumble that
Rams head coach 
turnovers -the two interceptions and a fumble. 

"We just made far too many mistakes today," Warner said. "Everybody's got to quit making mistakes." 
Last season, Sack had 16 1/2 sacks, and his 29 during the 1999 and 2000 seasons led the NFL over that period. He had struggled this season with just three. 
But on this night, he lived up to his reputation, even forcing Frank Garcia, who had started at left guard for the injures! Tom Nutten, out of the game. Nutten, who had a sprained ankle, returned in the third quarter and.. limped off again in the fourth. 
"Tommy's played against Warren several times and had some success," Rams coach Mike Martz said. "This was the first time for Frank. 
Marcus J o n e s recovered at the St. Louis 22. 
Wilkins returned the favor again with a 24-yarder on the final play of the half. 
Then the Bucs went 68 yards on 11 plays to open the second half, with Alstott zigzagging in from 8 yards out to make it 17-9. 
The Rams drove right back, 85 yards in 12 plays to score on a 1-yard fourth down pass from Warner to rookie tight end Brandon Manumaleuna. Faulk then ran in for a 2­point conversion to tie the game at 17. 
Then Tampa Bay went 90 yards in 9 plays, with Dunn running it in from 21 yards out. 
"Nobody's happy about this, but that's life," Martz said. "We don't have the time or opportunity to sit down and feel sorry for ourselves." 
'Noles, Hokies get Gator Bowl 
Associated Press 
Virginia Tech gets another chance at Florida State in a bowl game, but the stakes won't be as high as they were in the Sugar Bowl two years ago. 
The Hokies and Seminoles agreed on Monday to play in the Gator Bowl on Jan. 1, a far cry from the '99 Sugar Bowl when Florida State won the national title with a 46­29 win over Virginia Tech. 
Florida State, 6-4 and unranked entering Saturday's game against Georgia Tech, played in the last three national title games. No. 14 Virginia Tech is 8-2 entering Saturday's game against No. 1 Miami. 
The game will be played at Alltel Stadium in Jacksonville. Fla. 
Other teams accepting bowl bids on Monday included No. 17 Michigan and No. 23 Ohio State, the second and third­place finishers in the Big Ten Conference. 
The Wolverines (8-3) are headed to the Citrus Bowl on Jan. 1 in Orlando against a Southeastern Conference opponent. The Buckeyes (7-4) will play in the Outback Bowl on Jan. 1 in Tampa, Fla., also against an SEC opponent. 
Also, the Big East Conference bowl lineup appears set now that the Hokies are in the Gator. 
Syracuse (9-3) will play in the insight.com Bowl in Phoenix on Dec. 29 against a Big 12 team; Boston College (7 -4) is in the Music City Bowl in Nashville, Tenn., on Dec. 28 against an SEC team; and Pittsburgh (5-5) can gain a spot in the Tangerine Bowl in Orlando, on Dec. 20 against an ACC team, with a win on Saturday against Alabama-Birmingham. 
No. 1 Miami (10-0). Big East champions, has clinched a spot in a Bowl Championship Series game ­the Rose Bowl with a win on Saturday against Virginia Tech. 
The Seminoles are headed to their 20th straight bowl. and could do so with a mediocre 6-5 record. This is the first season since 1986 that Florida State has lost more than two games and failed to finish the J\P media poll's top five. 
"It makes you appreciate how the other 98 percent lives," Florida State athletic director Dave Hart Jr. said. "I don't believe anyone in col­lege football ever again will have a run like that. It was an unbelievable run. Only UCLA's basketball run under John Wooden is compara­ble." 
"We are ecstatic to be going to our seventh New Year's bowl in nine years," Virginia Tech coach Frank Beamer said. "This is cer­tainly a compliment to our program and to our great fan support." 
The Buckeyes, who beat the Wolverines 26-20 on Saturday. return to Tampa, where they lost 24-7 to South Carolina last year in what turned out to be John Cooper's final game as coach. Jim Tressel replaced him this year. 
In addition to Miami, three other teams have clinched berths in BCS games as con­ference champions -Illinois (Big Ten), Oregon (Pac-10) and Maryland (ACC). 
The SEC and Big 12 cham­pions have yet to be decided, and then two at-large teams will be chosen to round out the field for the four BCS games -the Rose, Orange, Fiesta and Sugar bowls. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business clay from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Chicago Apartment in Wrigleyville Spring Break with STS, Americas Billy was sad. The Bird was glad. SPRING BREAK PARTY! Indulge Owned by ND prof Avail. lmmed. #1 Student Tour Operator Promote Then Billy's dad got mad, and shot NOTICES FOR SALE in FREE Travel, Drinks, Food and Large 2 bdrm 1 bath, restored trips on campus, earn cash and free the bird, bad... Dead bad. 
Parties with the Best DJs and woodwork, bookcases, dining rm, trips. Info/Reservations. 1-800-648­SEMESTER BREAK WORK 400+ VW 97 Jetta GL, 5spd, red/drkgry, celebrities in Cancun, Jamaica, hardwood floor, new kitchen, dish-4849 www.ststravel.com Then, in a little cabin down the LOCATIONS AROUND THE U.S. sunroof, CD, pwrlocks, AC, immac-Mazatlan, and the Bahamas. Go to washer, microwave. Mini blinds, river, there was a boy named Noah, 
ulate, 29K, $12,000/best, Kimberly StudentCity.com, call 1-800-293-central heat/AC, ceiling tans, pri-HAPPY BODACIOUS BIRTHDAY with nothing but a television set lo WWW.WORKFORSTUDENTS.CO or Rich at 631-5368 1990 black 1443or email vale balcony, laundry, off-street JORDAN keep him company M Honda Accord. Good condition, sales@studentcity.com to find out parking incl. $1575 plus 1.5 months 
127,000 mi. $2500 obo. Call 631-more. security deposit. Owner occupied. EARN HOLIDAY CASH 257-8129 So he turned on the only channel 
SPRING BREAK Cancun, Jamaica, 7862 that he liked, FOX. 
S. Padre, & all Florida destinations. Call 773-348-5832 or e-mail Kerry, I'm getting done at a decent And then he saw something that BEST Hotels, 2 limestone ranch, close to campus. FEMALE ROOMMATE. Fully fur-bower.1@nd.edu Student Wantedl hour. WOO HOOi! made him smile. FREE parties, LOWEST pricesl 2-car attached garage, hardwood nished apt. at Castle Point. Alum owned 2 story, 5 bdr, 2 bth 
floors, finished basement, CIA. Call $400/mo. Spring 2002. Call Anna w/new carpet. appl, sec.roof & fur-Andrew, Mike, Lisa and Peter were www.breakerstravel.com 219-233-9146 273-0307. nace. 3 lot yd, 1 blk.N of Club 23 1 • workhorses in California... And I got It was a new show about Beverly, 800-731-0043 frequent flyer milesl!I Hills that is 
(800) 985-6789. 1994 Oldsmobile Cutlass Ciera, Called 90210, Noah was instantly 
86,000mi, fine cond., loaded, $2800 FOR RENT Tickets Need Purdue tix? SYS Dates, I know who my copy mesmerized. He found it very, very ADOPTION IS LOVE or best offer. Call Erin@ editor is getting. special. Imagine your precious baby safe Ca/11-5233. HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM-276-7076 and happy in a loving family, PUS mmmrentals.com email:mmm-Once upon a time. there were two Then after 1 oyears, it got can-adored by 2 ND Grad parents renta/s@aolcom little birds. celled. So Noah had nothing better (a full-time mom and a lawyer dad) WANTED PERSONAL to do and started working for this and loving playmates in a beautiful Houses available for 3 to 6 stu-One little bird, a very little bird, liked Newspaper. home. WANTED: SPRING BREAKERS! dents. Good area...ADT, washer-SPRING BREAK Largest selection to fly over picnics. We promise to give your child the Sun Coast Vacations wants to send dryer-air. of Spring Break Destinations, He likes it, but wishes his favorite life you dream of for them you on Spring Break to Cancun, the Dave 340-0106 including Cruises! Rep Positions, Little Billy had a brand new hat, and television show was still on. Medical, legal, counseling, court Bahamas, Jamaica, or Mazatlan Free Drinks and Free trips avail-it was sitting on his head... approved living expenses pd. FOR FREE! HOUSES FOA RENT 1) 9-br able. I love you Jennifer!'! Confidential. Please call our attor-To find out how, call 1-888-777-$2400/month 2) 5-br $1500/month www.EpicuRRean.com Then the birdie decided to drop in ney at 4642 or email: sales@suncoastva-3) 4-br $1000/month Call Bill al on Billy's picnic. So to speak of I hope nothing special is said today. 
(708) 922-4795. cations.com 532-1896. 1-800-231-4-FUN course. I have homework to do? 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Tue5day, Novemba 27, 2001 page 13 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Pumpkins memoralized in Greatest Hits 
By TOM O'CONNELL .Sct:nL: Music Criri~ 
HotlPn Applr.s, Tlw Smashing Pumpkins Crc,ltC'st !lits, is a nostalgic girt to tlw adoring fans or Oil(' th<> grPatPsl bands of the '90s. This album brings Llw lisLr.1wr back Lo t!H' days \\'lwn rr)('k had a pPrsonal and pontic tou1:h that is absPnt from today's nmo­tionally barrnn w,1111iab1~ nwk.crs who sing about how much m11rn·y thny havn or how manv chicks thPv'v<' s(·ored wit h ()vI' r · l hI' ir 1 0 -·y,, a r ru n . sing1•r/song,\ ril1·r/guilarisl Billy Cor){nn. 1;11itarist Janws Iha, bassist l>'.\rry and drumnwr .Jimmy Cha111b1·rlin 1~xp1·ri1·11rPd almost ewry possibh• high and lmY 
In 11)91 tlwy wPr<' a no-nanw band from Chirago whos<' indi<' labPl dPbut album Cish sold a shocking 3:i0,000 ropi1•s. prompting Virgin n·1·ords to quirkl.v sign tlwm to a major d<'al. Tlwy bPi:,u11<' nwgastars in llw lwyday of llw all<'rnativ<' rork movnnwnt with I<J9'.)'s Siam<'S<' llr1'am. Th<•y l'oll<mPd it up in 1'J'J:i with tlw highly sur1·pssrul \1Pllon Colli<' and tlw lnfinit<' S,ldrwss. an Ppic doublP album that sprawl<'d a!'ross many sty!Ps to showcasP PVPrything Tlw Smashing Pumpkins wPrP capabln ol'. 
Photo courtesy of www.newscom.com

Th<'n rnnw tlw toppl<' from tlw top. At 
The Smashing Pumpkin's latest release, Greatest Hits, is a 2-disc set that contains hits from their 10 year history as
th<' lwight ol' tlwir popularity. Smashing 
well as a selection of B-sides and rarities all of which display the incredible musical ability of this now defunct band.
Pumpkins drumnwr Jimmy ChambPrlin and touring k<'yboarclist Jonathan !\frlvoin W<'r<• shooting lwroin al'tl'r a the country. playing to packnd concert 1111 the void !nil by Chamberlin's absence rn!eas,id Pisces Israriot. an album of B­show. I\IPlvoin ovt•rdosPd and diPd, and halls. EvPntually thny decidnd that th<' and Urn result is a robotir,, creepy sound. Sidos and other unreleased music. Judas Charnb1·rlin was kirk1•d out of tlw band. linw had r.orn1\ lo rall it quits. They Thn song alienates the listener at first, 0 is a similar concept but it cncornpass­!\frlvoin·s dPath. ChambPrlin 's Pxit rrorn playPd an extPnsive rarnwell tour. dos­but it has deeper levels that beg to be es unreleased music from the second th1· band. Corgan·s divnrl'P and his ing things out for good earli<~r this year nxplon•d. When playing "Perfect" live. half of the Pumpkins career. mothn's d£'ath in 191)7 sPt thP in Chirago wlwn' thn band was first the Pumpkins would often use piano and Some of' the songs like "The Aeroplane Smashing Pumpkins on a rnmplPtPly f'ornwd. strings and eliminal!\ the drums alto­Flies High," "Marquis in Spades" and rww and diffpn•nt 1·otirs<'. Th<' rar<'f'r<'I' Hottcn Applrs takes you though thr gcthnr, exposing the true beauty of the "Set the Hay to Jerry" were all released allitud<' disappParPd and a morP S<'rious mind ol' the band ovrr th£' cuursP of song thal sncms to be intentionally hid­before on the post-Mellon Collie-box if' 11111n• IJ!'rsonal Pumpkins 1·nwrgPd. tlwir 10-y<'ar history. The Pagnr hard den in th<\ album vr.rsion. set. "Belicwe" is one of the few songs 
..\drn·P. a <'tilogy to <:organ's rnotlwr, rocking or '"Siva" shows tlw promise in a The rnal trnat on Hotten Apples is the written and sung by James Iha that 

was 11·plf rPct>ivPd bv l'rilil's but had 0;11~, luk<•\\'arm s a I <' s Lnl'<irtunatPly. many of llH• !'ans did not grow with thP band and thl' Pumpkins \\'Pr!' not willing to giv<' pPo­pl<• a rarbon cop:, of tlw hard rnrk from thl' prPvious two albums. 
In th1• most ('(' ()­Jl lllll i!'a lly prospPr­ous linw in th<' rounlry·s history. tlw 111ass1•s W<'r<' lis­tc ning Lo llH' Spic<' Cirls and llansnn, not a quiPtly tex­tun•J nxploration or Yari1Jus forms of lo\'<' and d<'aLh. ,\ft<'r that was 
1'1a<'hina: Th<' 
MachinPs ol' God. 
whirh  sa\1  th<·  
r<~turn  of  
Chamb,\rlin  as  
dr u m 111 n r  ,lnd  

-whirh also had poor band that only a album's Jina! song. lkspite the odd direc­madr. it to the Pumpkins lineup. lie has vear before had tions that the Purnpkins had taken in a srnooth voice and he sings with great brn1n gPtting booed their later years. lhey wanted to reassert crnotion. it was always a sham£' that olT tlrn stage their ability to rock the house when they morn of his songs did not end up on

Greatest Hits 
b1\c· au sn or their want<·d to. Corgan did not want to go out Pumpkins albums. drum marhinn with doubts that limy wPre one of' the Thn rest are the• B-sides from the accompaniment. best rock bands of' the '90s. Adore and Machina albums. They gen­
"Today" and Bight before erally follow in "Disarm" am great tlrny broke up, the sarne themes reminders of the they went into as the rest of' the
This album brings the listener back 
time when bands the studio one songs from that
to when rock had a personal and
like Nirvana. Pearl last tinw to timP period. 
Jam and The record one last poetic touch that is absent from "Wintcrlong" 
Smashing song. Aptly and "My
today's emotionally barren 
Pumpkins dominat­n a m I\ d , Mistakp" hav<'
wannabe rockers who sing about 
<~ d tlw airwavPs, "l'nlill<'d" cuts thr. thoughtful MTV actually out all th11 distor­how much money they have or how and mellow played more than tion nnd cornput­sounds of the
many chicks they've scored with. 
l 0 videos in its eriznd rncording songs written rotation and TIU, n!TnCLs that pop-while Corgan was not the ulatPd Mach ina. was mourning
The Smashing 
garbage-spcwi ng, A combination of' acoustic and cl1~ctric the loss of his mother. "Lucky 13" has err.ativity-d cstroy­guitars, hard pounding drums and a stran!{e anJ wandPrin!{ vc:cals and
Pumpkins 
ing. mass markPL0 flowing bass liiw give "Untitled" plenty of "B<'causc You Are" has heavy and com­ing product that reason to bn rnunt<'d among tlwir grnat­plirated distortion, two things that wen~
Virgin Records 
now controls all PSt hits. "Untitled" speaks from the both prevalent on most of Machina. nrninstrnam record heart: "Many times while you sleep/ I'm Judas O occ:1sionally gets very heavy,
Rating 

salPs. dreamin~ of' what to keep / You know but it is ,tn accurate reflection of tlw Tlw MPllon Colli<~ your wish, hold it true/ To slay the band at that point in their lives. hits. "1'J79," things that trouble you." H.otten Apples and Judas O are a great
.......... 
"Bulkt with Corgan s1•(1ri1ingly giv!'s explanations m<·morial to a band that fpft a hugr Buttl'rfly Wings," for why thny bocamc what they did and mark on the music of' the last dcicade. "Zero" and nol to doubt what they were always able Corgan is rumored to lrnvB recently 
1·11co1·d sal!'s. Tlwr<' was a Marhina fol­low up in tlw works. but ,Ll'tPr a long l'ight with thn rnrord labPl ovt't' th1• inrrcasingly biza1T(' and kss prol'itabli­din•ction in whirh tlw band was !wad­ing. Corgan <'IPctPd to givP thP album ,lwav ror frpp on tlw lntPrnPL 
l)(:spil<' tlwir poor album sales. Thn Smashing Pumpkins rnntinupo touring 
"Tonight. Tonight." ruck as hard today as they did six yPars ago. Whilo list.<>ning lo them you don't havn any foreshadow­ing of the tough times that wPn: soon to b0fall tlrn Pumpkins. 
"J>erl'cct." onp of tlrn bnst songs on Adon\. still carries with it thn painfully Sl'arrnd memori<'S f'rom that time, of their livl's. /\ drum machitw was used to to be: "Sudd<'nlv I'm out of' n'acb / Listen hPrn, f'r.el me/ just bPlievP. just be!irwe / You'll sne." 
For all it is and all it says. "Untitled" is a grt'at C"nd lo Thr Smashing Pumpkins career. 
.Judas 0, a colhwtion of B-sides and rarities. is tlw s11cond disc on th1· album. Arter ShtmPsn Drnam. the Pumpkins fornwd a new band, Z'vvan, which will be touring this summPr. Fans have likely heard the last from the Pumpkins. it will be interesting to sec what direction Corgan takes with a llPW projnct. a new band and a fresh start. 
Contact Tom O'Connell at toconnel@nd.edu 
O
THE 

Stanford 17, Notre Dame 13 BSERVER Tuesday, November 27, 200 l 


UNHAPPY HOLIDAY 
After l\otrc Dame's Thanksgiving weekend victory last year, fans 
were calling for a BCS berth. Bu.t after Notre Dame's Thanksgiving 
loss last weekend, fans were calling for Davie's head. Following 
Carlyle Holiday's 1-for-16 passing performance, the Irish offense' 
sputtered in the second half and the Cardinal squeaked by at the end. 
PETER RICHARDSON/The Observer 

Holder Adam Tibble stares in disbelief at the scoreboard during the fourth quarter of Notre 
Dame's loss against No. 12 Stanford. 
.., ........ 
.. 
·.•..·•·..·· ·.·.. ......·.··..·.•·...•.:-··••·· . . 
. .
'." ., 


PETER RICHARDSON/The Observer PETER RICHARDSONfThe Observer 
Wide receiver Omar Jenkins sprints upfield on a 47-yard touchdown Julius Jones runs through the middle during Notre Dame's loss against Stanford. Jones 
pass from Carlyle Holiday as Jeff Faine celebrates in the back­had 106 first-half yards before sitting out the second half win an injury. 
ground. The pass was Holiday's only completion of the night. 



Tuesday, November 27, 2001 Th(' Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Pride can only carry weary D-line so far 
• Weaver, Irons, Budinscak, Hilliard play without subs 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Sport, W1i1cr 
l'i\1,0 ALTO, Cali[ 

Anthony \,\'pavPr pil'k~d up bimsdf' off th!' ground in agony al'Lnr ,w1'ry play 011 the last Stanford scoring driw. 
Tl11· s1111ior d('{"pnsivc> Pnd played nwry snap on dnfons,i for thP Irish Saturday uncl. by the ­fourth quartPr, lw could barely swnd tlw pain in his elbow any-
1\f!(•r tlw game, Wnav<'r claimPd hP was just a little bangi•d up. But his tc;ammates knP\\. lwttPr. ThPv saw tlwir sPnior captain lnavi1ig nverything on tl11• !iPld and lighting through his pain. 
"Tony Weawr. he's a senior, man. with sut:h a f'utur<' alrnad of him and Im is out there fighting in pain and agony." sophomorn dPfh1siv,; tack!,\ Ky!P 13udinscak said. "CPI.ting up civcry time holding his Plbow. ]Ip just kept going." 
But \,\'(•awr didn't ri>ally have a choin• othPr than to kPPp going. 
Tlll'rl' was no n·lil'f availablt> for him or arw ol" his tc•ammates on t!H• lin(;_ WllPn Darrnll Camplwll 1..n tlw gamn \Vith a knl'P injury on tlw first serins. tht> Irish Wl'rt' dmrn to just four dP!\•nsivP linPnwn. 
"Tlwy playPd hard and I am proud 111" tlwsP kids," dPf"Pnsin· rnordinator (;rc•g Mattison said. larklPs am! a l'umb!P recovery aftpr 4:i snaps without a break, game. Tlrny just arnn't ready to go." "\\"p lost DatTPll on that l'irst whi!P C:Pdrir· Ililliard had l'iv~ tlw d(~fl'nsivP lirw hrokP down. compel!~. Even if Pauly and Sapp aren't sPrii-s and all four kids pla~Td tarklc•s and Budinsrak had <lllf'. ThP Cardinal put togctlrnr 1:{8 "Thny don't haw tlw Pxpcri­ready to go Saturday, the four llw P11tirP ganw with no substi­"\\'p start('(! lo wear down a vards of total o['fonsP in the ence," lw said. "You·w got two iron men who played almost tutl's." littlP towards thP Pnd of the i"<mrth quartPr as tlw defonsiw kids who have only playPd a fow every snap Saturday say thry 
.\s thl' gamt• wort> on. gamP. \\'P w,~n· righting and li1wnwn made just (\vo tackles. seconds all y1mr." will be ready. Weaver has \YPa\ Pr's stamina may han· fighting. TlwrP WPn· so many "We wnrP a littl,~ thin in But with Campbell and Hyan instilled too much pride in this lwgun to !"ail him but lw np,·pr guys out thPrP fighting their there," lwad coach Bob Davie Hobcrts out for the ynar with unit for them nol to bP ready. lost his pridt>. Ill' wasn't going to !warts out." Budinscak said. said. "Our kids cornpntnd but wn knee injuries and Andy Wisne's "You've ahvays got to play to ('01111• off that fil•ld no matter Rut aftN playing l'VPry snap ran out of" gas a littln bit. Wn return from a concussion still up pride," Weaver said. "I hate to what. And his tPammatPs foci off from ltw f"irsl scrips on, the were on the lie!cl a lot 011 del'cnsn in the air. Mattison said cdther lose. It makes me sick. I just love that. dcknsivc lirw finally _wore down in the second half. \VP, kinda l'auly, Sapp or ,wen both of" tlrnm these guys and I really want 
Budi11sn1l. \\'PU\'(!!', Grant in tlw fourth quartPr. The Irish worn down on dnf1~nse in lht! have to b1! rnady to play against them to win so badly. I ahl just Irons and CNlric I lilliard all had d1\!'et1sivP !inn combinml for two sPeond half." · Purdue Saturday. playing for pride." solid ganws liir tlw Irish. \V(~avm· sacks and IS tackles as Notre Even as the four starters worP "I am going to lry lo gnt some­lc•d tlw li1wnw11 with Pight tack­Danw held Stanford lo three down, f\lattison never considernd onii ready and give them a lot lf,s and 1 1/2 sacks. Grant Irons points through tlw first 4:i min­substituting sophomorns Jason more reps in prar.tice," Im said. Contact Mike Connolly at con­had hall' a sark to go with thn·c• utPs. But in thn fourth quartm·, Sapp or Grng Pauly into the "They will have to be rnady to nolly.28@nd.edu. 

AP poll  scoring summary & stats  ESPN/USA Today Coaches poll  
scoring  1st  2nd  Jrd  4th  Total  scoring  
lPam  record  points  Notrn Dame  7  3  3  0  13  summary  team  record  points  
1  Miami (71)  10·0  1,799  Stanf'ord  3  0  0  14  17  1st  1  Miami (59)  10-0  1,499  
2 3 4 5 6 7 8  Florida (1) Texas Oregon Tennessee Nebraska Maryland Illinois  9-1 10-1 9-1 9-1 11 ·1 10-1 10·1  1,716 1,644 1,540 1,511 1,318 1,295 1,273  team statistics first downs rushes-yards passing yards comp-att-int  ND 13 43-241 64 2-20·1  Stanford 20 45-199 159 8-23-1  Stanford -12:36 FG Biselli 29-yd., 0·3 Nil -2:12 Jenkins 47-yd. pass lrorn Holiday, Sella kick, 7-3  2 3 4 5 6 7 7  Florida (1) Texas Tennessee Oregon Nebraska BYU Maryland  9·1 10-1 9-1 9-1 11-1 11-0 10-1  1,432 1,358 1,289 1,257 1,104 1,080 1,080  
9  Colorado  9-2  1,261  tolal return yards  152  80  2nd  9  Illinois  10-1  1,065  
10 11 12 13 14 15  BYU Oklahoma Stanford Washington Stale Virginia Tech South Carolina  11·0 10-2 8-2 9-2 8-2 8·3  1,244 1,163 1,034 846 783 722  punts-yards rumbles-lost µenaltiPs-yards tinw of possession individual statistics  9-314 0-0 8-81 29:58  7-241 2-2 1-10 30:02  Nil -12:13 FG Sella 23-yd., 10·3 ]rd  10 11 12 13 14 15  Colorado Oklahoma Stanford Virginia Tech Washington State South Carolina  9·2 10-2 8-2 8-2 9-2 8-3  991 915 817 763 699 596  
16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23  Georgia Michigan Syracuse Washington Marshall Fresno State LSU Ohio Stale  7-3 8-3 9.3 8·3 10·1 10-2 7-3 7-4  660 616 528 492 460 404 268 225  passing NI> -Holidav 1-16-0, loVeGChio 0-3·1, Bal!Je 1-1-0 Stnnforcl-Fasani 8-23-1 rushing ~n -Jones 14-106, Holiday 12-67, Howard 14-44, lopienski 2­15, Lovecchio 1-9 Stanford-Talon 18-133, Moore 3·42, Allen 7-15, Faust 2-6,  .\ll -5:39 fG Sella JB•yd., 1J·J 4th Stnnf'11rd -7:22 Moore 9-yd. run Biselll kick, 1J,10  16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23  Michigan Syracuse Marshall Georgia Washington Fresno State Auburn Louisville  8-3 9-3 10-1 7.3 8-3 10-2 7-3 10·2  553 458 425 420 397 334 223 205  
24 25  Louisville Auburn  10-2 7-3  170 156  Fasani 15-3 receiving  Stanfol'CI -1:06 Tolon 1-yd. run Biselll kick, 13-17  24 25  LSU Ohio Stale  7-3 7-4  164 105  
ot.lwr l(\ams rl'C<!iving votes: Florida State 64, N.C. State 51, Georgia Tech 47, Arkansas 23, Toledo 20. Boston College 19, Utah 16. [owa Slate 8, Texas  11.;I) -Jenkins 1-47, Holiday 1-17 Stanlbrd-Johnson 3·60, Sebes 1-46, Powell 1-23, Allen 1·23, Pierce 1-12, Faust 1-(-5)  other tnams receiving votns.-Georgia Tech 104, Florida State 53, Arkansas 27, N,C. State 21, Boston College 13, Utah 10, North Carolina 9, Texas  
A&M 6, Boise State 4, Texas Tech 4, Hawaii 3,  l1·ading tackll'rs  A&M 6, Toledo 6. Iowa State 5, Alabama 4. Purdue 4,  
Louisiana Tech 2, NOTRE DAME 0  ND -Harrison 12, Weaver 8, Dykes 7, Sapp 5, Hilliard 5, Elam 4  Penn Slate 3, USC 3, Texas Tech 2, NOTRE DAME 0  
Stanford-Wire 15. Friedrichs 7, Gabriel 7. Williams 5  

The Observrr . IRISH INSIDER Tuesday, November 27, 2001 
report card 
D-
quarterbacks: Holiday complctnd just om~ pass all day and was benchPd in favor of' LoVt>cchio. who lhrcv, the gamP­cndirig interception. 1loliday's one pass scored a touchdown. however. 
B 
running backs: Jones rushed for 106 vards in the first half hr.fore being injured. In the second half. however. 
tlw Irish ground ganrn stalled and 
gainPd only 6~ yards. 
NA 
receivers: The quarterbacks played so poorly that the receh.ers threw as many pass,"s as they caught. No grade can be determined. 
B 
offensive line: With thi> exception of Vol!Prs getting thrown out, the linP played well. Thi>y only gave up three 
tackles for a loss <1nd no sacks. 
B+ 
defensive line: With no substitutions available. Lhe line played well. Weaver had one of his best ga.mps of thP year 
with eight tackles, a solo sack and 
teaming with Irons for another sack. 
linebackers: Harrison led the team v.ithB+ 12 1.ackles while Boiman had a fumble recovery. Hut where was Watson'? The junior had just one solo tackle. 
D 
secondary: Whenever an opponent needs a big play, it looks to whoever 
Jefferson is r,overing. The safotiPs bit on play action fakes all night. 
special teams: Setta set a record forB+ consecutive games with a field goal. Hildbold dropped !'our punts inside the 20. The return game was solid. 
coaching: The coaches had an adc­
4uato game pla11 but could not make 
1\w necessary seeond half adjust­nwuts to hold tlrn lead. 
overall: This was a game the Irish could have won but the horrendous piety of the quar­
2.45 

terbacks and the s8condary killed a good tf1r1m effort. 
adding up the numbers 
Irish players ejectecl from the game. 
1 

Vallers was thrown out for clipping in the seconcl quart.er. 
12 consecutive games with at least one lield goal by Setta -a new Notre Dame record 
percentage of Stanford Stadium 
61 

filled with fans -most of them cheering for Notre Dame 
47yards on Jenkins' first career touchdown reception and Notre Dame's first completion 
yards on Holiday's first career reception on a pass thrown by 
17 

Battle -Notre Dame's second. and final completion 
Irish passing touchdowns in 2001 
touchdowns thrown by 
4 

Heisman Trophy winner 
Angelo Bertelli in a single 
game against Stanford in 1942 
games in which Davie has beaten a
1ranked team on the road in his live year tenure. Ironically, it's probably the same number of games he has left as heacl coach. 

PETEf\ f\lCHARDSON/The Observer 
Stanford cornerback Ruben Carter levels Notre Dame split end Javin Hunter, causing the ball to fly away from the Irish receiver. Notre Dame's offensive woes continued as the Irish finished a mere 2-of-20 passing. 
Once again, offense drags down defense 
PALO ALTO. Calif. 

A lond rollision of' flesh and metal echoed from behind tht· closPd doors of the Notre Dame locker room. Seconds later, Tyreo Harrison stormed out of the Notn, Dame lockC'r room still wearing his uniform. Muttering and c11rsing, Harrison 
stalked off to a 
dark corner 
next to the 
building as linebacker coach Kirk Doll tried to console him. 
"I am just sick. Everyone is pretty sil"k right now. I don't know what happened." he said a half-hour later after he calmed down. "['.\1y outburst] was a lack of self-control. It was just a situa­tion." 
A situation in which a season's worth of pent-up frustration final­ly exploded in sheer anger. A situ­ation where the reality of a second losing season in three years finally set in. 
A situation in which the defense played outstanding and the offense played horribly. 
Again. 
"We're 114th in the nation in pass offense, and we looked like it tonight," Bob Davie said. 
Take your pick of words to describe Notre Dame's offense. Am~mic has been used often. Ugly fits. So docs pathetic. llarrison, who led the Irish with 
1:i tackles, has evPry right to bo ups<~L So dm~s Anthony Weaver, who playnd ev0ry defensive snap with a bustnd elbow and finished with eight tackles. 

Andrew Soukup 
Associate 
Sports Editor 

Th{iy won't say it, but they lrnvP lo bP frustrati>d at the incompP­tence of tl10 offense. After all. the offense wasted another outsland­ing defensive pcrfo!"mance for the umpteenth time this year. 
Stanford came into the gnnw averaging 38. 9 points a game. They scored just 17 on the Irish ­and ]4 of those points didn't co11w until tbe fourth quarter. rhn Irish defense held the Cardinal offonsn to 358 yards, more than 100 yards under its season average. 
And while the dPfens1~ was husv playing their hearts oul. Carlyle · Holiday was busy chucking away l\otre Dame's hopes of a winning season. 
Open receiver? Over his lwad. Easy throw? lncompli>tf~. ShovPI pass? forgot about it. 
You know the offense is having a miserable night whmi a wide receiver throws as many passes as the quarterback wmpletPs. 
"You saw it, anybody that was at the game saw it," offensive coordi­nator Krwin Rogers said. "The kid was not throwing the football. We had three-step drops with soft cor­ners and he couldn't hit them." 
In fact, Holiday's 1-for-16 mas­terpiece caused Hogers to insert Matt Lovecchio in the fourth quar­ter. Holiday wasn't hurt. Ifo got benched. 
"The game was in the offense's hands. I don't know if our defense could have played a better game," LoVecchio said. "All we had to do was drive down the field and kick a field goal ... anything to make it easier on our defense. 1 was in, Carlyl.e was in, we just had to get some points for our defense." 
They didn't. 
Again. 
To their credit, n()ither llolidav nor LoVecchio used excus11s to · explain their perforrnancn. No, the ball wasn't wet. they said. No, I didn't have troubln planting my feet !\Jo, I wasn't hurt at all. 
"It's orw of those davs that vou dream and you think ithout. ,;nd you hope it doesn't happen to y<>u." Holiday said. ·· It happ<>rrnd todav." 
Not.re Dame started oul f'irw. Through three quartcrs, tlw Irish olfonse produc1!d rnorP ol'fonsivc' yards than Stan ford -mon• of a testament to Notrl' Dame's di·knse than their offense. 
But as pass af'tPr pass lfow into the muddy ground and Stanford brought their safetins clos<\r and closer to the line of' scrimmago, the lrisl1 couldn't take any pres­sun:1 off tlrn rushing gamn. Tim Cardinal defense, which gave up 225 first half yards, limited NotrP Dame to a mo.re 80 yards of' offense in llrn second half. 
And as the fourth quartPr dragged ou and Stanford's offense drove closer and elosnr to the goal linte against a weary def'ern,11. iwcryone in Stanford Stadium knew that if the Cardinal scornd. that would be the end of thn game. Because Notre Dame's offense could not -and would not -rally. 
Against Boston College, the f'inal offensive drivn ended in a sack. Against TPnnessce, a latP offonsivc drivn ended in an intnn:nplion. And against Stanford, LoVPcchio pump-faknd three times bPforP throwing a pass into tripln covnr­age for the gamP-clinching inter­ception. 
"The defense played well enough to win the game," Rogers said, "and we didn't givn them any damn support." 
Again. 
Contact Andreu• Soukup at asoukllp@,nd.edu. The opinions rf this column are those <f the author and are not necessarily those of The Ohseruer. 

NSIDER 
O
rHE 

Tuesday, Nowmber 27, 2001 BSERVER Stanford 17, Notre Dame 13 =====--========--_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_·-=---~--_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_----_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-----=-----=---=---=---=---=---=---=---=---=---=---=---=---=---=---=----=----=---=---=----=----=---=---=----=----=---=---=---=----=----=---=---=----=----=---=---=----=---=---=---=---=---=---=---=---=---=---=---=---=---=--=---=--=--=--=---=----=-----=-----=----=----=---=----=----=----=---=----=---=---=---=---=--=---=-----=----=--=---=----=---= 
Bowl hopes thrown away 

By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Spores Editor 

PALO ALTO, Calif. 

Midway through the fourth quarter Saturday, it appeared almost certain the Irish were going to pull off their biggest upset of the season. All they needed was an ollense. 
Leading Stanford 13-3 with less than eight minutes remaining, the Notre Dame defens~! had com­pletely shut down a Cardinal offense that came in averaging nearly 39 points per game. But then the luck of the Irish ran out as Stanford put together two late drives lo squeak past Notre Damn 
17-13. 
"I thought our dt>fense, really all year has competed hard," Irish hMd coach Hob Davie said after thn game. "I felt bad for our kids that they couldn't µull it out at the end. They competed hard." 
,\ 46-yarcl pass from Stanford quart1wback Handy Fasani to Nick Sebos and a subsequent pass interference call on Irish corner­back Clifford Jefferson turned third-and-10 at Stanford 19 into a first-and-10 at the Irish 20. Three plays later, fullback Casey Moore scampered nine yards into the end zone to pull the Cardinal 'Nithin three with 7:22 remaining on the clock. 
Notre Dame could manage only one first down on the ensuing pos­session and was forced to punt after taking just 2:05 off the clock. 
Stanford started on its own 41 and four consecutive running plays by Fasani and backup run­ning back Kenneth Talon brought the Cardinal to Notre Dame's 18. Then. with the Cardinal facing third-and-13 at the Irish 21, Jefferson was called for another pass interference defending a µass to Teyo Johnson on a play that would have forced Stanford to kkk a gam11-tying field goal. 
"There were a bunch of jump balls -a couple of times it looked like offensi\·e pass interference," Davie said. "It's hard for me to say." 
The call gave Stanford first-and­goal on the ;\/otre Dame five-yard line. The Irish defense stuffed To!on's first two attempts to go into the end zone, but after a time-out, the freshman scored from the one to put the Cardinal ahead for good with 1:08 remain­ing. 
"Those kids competed and we ran out of gas just a little bit," Davie said of a defensive unit that was visibly upset after the game. "The field was soggy and we were on the field on defense a lot in the second half. We kind of wore dmm at the end a little bit." 
Worn down from the beginning was the lrish pas.'iing game. Notre Dame completed only two of 20 pass attempts -a 47-yard first­quarter touchdown pass from Carlyle Holiday to Omar Jenkins and a 17-yard third-quarter trick pass from Arnaz Battle to Holiday. 
"We're 114th in the nation in pass oflensfl, ancl we looked like it tonight," Davie said. Offensive coordinator Kevin Hogers was a bit more frank. 
"Anybody that was at the game saw it," Rogers said. "The kid !Holiday] was not throwing the football. We had three-step drops and with soft corners and he couldn't hit them ... The defense played well enough to win the game, and we didn't give them any damn support." 
Matt LoVecchio came in for two drives, including Notre Dame's final drive after the second Stanford touchdown, and failed to convert three pass attempts. On the first play after the kickoff, LoVecchio looked fur Javin Hunter but found Cardinal defender Tank Williams, who grabbed a game­ending interception. 
"That safety came down, they were all on top of Javin," Lovecchio said. "That ball shouldn't have been thrown." 
LoVecchio was just one of a handful of Notre Dame offensive players having a night they'd like to forget. Senior oflimsive lineman Kurt Vollcrs was ejected early in the game for apparently throwing a clip, a play that left Davie stunned. 
"To kick a kid out of a football game for a personal foul -I've never had that happen before," Davie said. "I could see if it was a repeat thing." 
Even the one Irish offensive player who played consistently well found the pot of bad luck. Junior running back Julius Jones rushed for 106 yards, all in the first half, including a 59-yard run from scrimmage that nearly ended in the end zone. 
Soon after, Jones aggravated an ankle injury and sat out the rest of the game, leaving Terrance Howard at running back. Howard gained 50 yards on 14 curries. 
"We had tremendous field posi­tion, we just couldn't make a play to break the thing open," Davie said. "If we got up a couple of touchdowns, I thought we were going to win this football game even with their explosive offense." 
Contact Noah Amstadter at amstadter.l@nd.edu. 
quote of the game
player of the game 

stat of the game 
'-~~-''..'.>.... 

"You saw it. Anyone in the stadium
Kenneth Tolon 

1 completed pass
....
.-;;.;.;: 


saw it. The kid was not throwing
While Notre Dame was busy containing 
the football. "
Stanford's explosi1•e passing game, Tolan ran 
Quarterback Carlyle Holiday com­
Kevin Rogers
all over the Irish defense for a career-high 133 
pletedjust one pass in 16 attempts, 
Notre Dame offensive coordinator
rushing yards. He finished the night with the 
the worst passing performance in the 
on Holiday's passing performance
game-winnifl[f touchdown. 

Dauie era. 
OBSERVER 


CENE.
music 
page 12 Tuesday, November 27, 2001 
ALBUM REVIEW 

Jagger fails to roll without the Stones in Goddess 

The need to crown Jagger's new works as yesterday's Given the album's rela-By SEAN MdAUGHLIN 
Goddess in the

new solo album with "classic heroes. Aimed al grabbing the live weakness, there arc a Sw1e Music Criric status" is hardly surprising. attention nf the young search­few momon ls of' clarity. 
Doorway

13ob Dvlan's "Time Out of Mind" ing through rock's past and the Bono and Pete Townsflnd 
Mick Jaggrr's fourth solo and "(ove and Theft" as well as rnidd le-aged looking to relive it, contribute to "Joy," by far album. "Goddess in the Santana's "Supernatural" expe­the prartice is merely sound the aIbu 111 's be st trar:k, Doorway." was recently rienred the same treat.rnent. business strategy. Mon~ often and the song is the one bestowed with Holling Stone's Only Uy Ian ·s work truly than not it is complete non­moment where thr, relent­fhe-slar rating. 13ul once again, deserved the acclaim. sense. less outside collaboralion the nr:w Holling Stonr,, whid1 In times of relative musical AbovP all. the most surprising works. feels the need to tirelessly plar:c mcdiorritv, the music industry aspert of "Goddess in the "Don't Call Me Up." disposable pnp ir:ons on their and its p·aid-off publications·, Doorway" lies in the way il ''Dancing in the Starlight." covers. has wandPred Wf'll off teleYision specials and various shamelessly copies "Too Far Gone" and the reservation. award shows rush to hype the "Supernatural's" formula of "Brand New Set of' Huh:s" 
semningly endless guRst stars, are solid pieers of intro­with similarlv bland results. spective balladq and "Visions of r·aradise" brings ·.1agger's lyrics add real Matchbox Twenty's Hob feeling. Nonetheless. the Thomas and offers little more relevant moments are just than Jagger over-singing a typi­too far anrl in betwcf\n. 
Mick Jagger

rallv dull Matchbox Twentv Al most 20 years aftr,r mel!Jdy. Lenny Kravitz lends his Jagger first went solo, one talent to "God Gave l\te key featurn defines his Virgin Records Everything," the current singlP. sabbaticals from the Aside from the refrain, the song Rolling Stones: without the Rating drowns along with a boredom musical muscle of' Keith typical of Kravitz's latest works. Richards and CharliP Wydef" John attr,mpts to add Walts, Mick Jagger c:annoL 
....~, 
reggae splash to "Hide Away" truly shine. but falls well short of the The solo Mick Jaggn Stones' Caribbean-influenced often -tries to ovcrcompcnsatn Doorway" falls into thP sanw work of the mid-seventies. Joe for the touch, soul and swaggPr pattern ~rnd in tlw Pnd. simply Perry adds guitars to lost in their abscncn and, in fails to translate into goodness "Everybody Getting High" and process, consistently achievr:s in Lh<' CD playr,r. similar to most of Aerosmith 's little morr than glossy medi<w­
Goddess in the Doorway, a mediocre collaboration with various work sinre "Pump." one would rity. Contact Sean McLaughlin at guest artists, marks Mick Jagger's fourth solo album release. hardly know it. Sadly. "Goddess in the McLaughlin.36@nd.edu 
ALBUM REVIEW 

Jewel releases another album of soulful music 
clear as shn rncites thr lnics By IAURA ROMPF desrribing love and wanti~g to Su:ne !vi U\ic CritiL 
be stur.k in a moment: "I get afraid/ Don't think ahead/ 
OvPr the Thanksgiving holiday, Garth Brooks gavr. Let's just stay I This way in bed a special concr>rt to the Navy men and women / Fr,els so good inside your aboard the ship LSS Enterprise. His special guest? arms/ Home is cvervwhere that Not rountry superstars Reba :\1,Entire or Grrnrge you are." While se~eral of the Strait. songs -all written by Jewel ­
:'Jo, joining Brooks on stage was none other than reflect falling in and out or pop rock star Jewel. While onr might find this love. track two "Jesus Loves cross-ovPr concert simply a way for Jewel to get You" delves into much deeper exposure. her newest album, This Way, certainly issues: "They say that Jesus trares its roots back to tlrn hard rock country sound loves you / What about me? / founded in Nashville. They say that money breaks 
The first singlP off the album. "Standing Still," is you / I still want to see . ., / They already gNting heavy play on tl}e airwaves and say abortion will send you simultaneously climbing tlw charts. The lyrics were straight to a l"iory hell / That is written by Jewrl. and the music, co-written by if the fanatics don't beat Satan Jrwrl and Hirk Nowrls, is a perfert blend of' to tlH' kill." acoustic and bass guitar. Jewel's frank tonr, throughout 
Jewel's voice l1oats over tlw melody, with hints of the song creates a conversation hrr yodrling past found in the chorus's hook: "Do v;,ith the listen(~r -making one you want me/ Like I want you / Or am I standing almost forget they're lislfming still." to music al all. Similar to her 
ThP titlP track orr the album "This \\'ay" also has a smash hit "Foolish Games" off 
country/hard rock f'erl. JPWPI's voke is 11gain crystal hPr album In PiecPs, "Break Me" is a beautiful ballad about let­ting go. The song
This Way 

complimc~nts the range of Jr!wel ·s vriicr: and the lyrics remain crisp despite the slow Indio-rock sounds on "ServP the Fgo" and "Gray
Jewel 

tempo or the melody. Matter," showing she does not intend on b(\C:oming a It asks: "And you could hurt me with counlry artist any limn soon.
Atlantic Records 
your bare hands / You r.ould hurt me Songwritr•r /\imrr\ Mayo once wrol<'. "Somn say it's using the sharp end of what you say / too c:Ountry, some say it's too rock'n'roll. But it's But I am lost to you now/ There's no just good music, if' you can l'(!nl it in your soul."
Rating 

amount of rnasrJn to saV(' me." BPgardlcss of wlwthn This Way is country or rock, Whilr, other tracks like "Everybody each song <·omcs straight from JPWPl's soul, c-rc•at­Nerds Somebody" and "Clovdand" ing nothing less then a gem of an album. 
......,..~(t,, 
were obviously recorded and mixed in Nashville, fowel usrs her traditional Contact Laura Rompf at lrompf@nd.edu 



O
THF 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Tuesdav, November 27, 2001 page 11 
Garden brings a Mauritania frame of mind 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
How to deal with the alcohol conflict 
Tlw cold season is li<'n'. /\!though this is all rPlativo as tlw tmn1wraturP rnachns 9:i degre(~S during tlw clay. Ncvertheloss, nov. is also the planting season. In tlrn l 'nitl~d Stal<'s I nnrnr liked gardf'ning. II 
took so long to s1111  
any rPsult and with my mPmory J  Maite Uranga  
would alwavs for­ 
get lo watnr t.lw  
µtauts und sends or oven f'orget if' I  ;r: .r,J,i, e in AJ rica  
had actually plant­ 
ed anything. I prn­ 

f'('rJTd to Ii<' by a pool or go on a sumnwr road trip. 
In Mauritania I avoidNl going to tlw vil­lagt' ganlPn l'or tlwsP masons. I saw tlw womPn and childrPn walking out evory morning for a wnnk with their shovels, rakns and IJucknts. Tlwrc an' agro­forpstry l'eacP Corps volunttwrs in this country who are supposed to do that Lype oJ'work. I was supposed Lo help them with tlw busirwss sidP. Eventually I forced mysnlf' to tah the 20-minutn ,valk to tiu' gardPn. I told mysPll'that I would makP an appearancP for about half' an hour. 
I trekked out tlwr11 and was instantly e1rnrgized. H was amazing. Tlw garden is a littll' largPr than an acre and about 40 women and childrnn W<!I"(' clParing their plots ol' grass and bushes. Tlwrn was an indesrribablP Pnthusiasm, as the women seemed to unitn together bPhind a com­mon goal. I walkml through the gate and bPgan talking to somn tJf' the womm1 and childr1m. Everyone wanted to show me her particular plot. They olfored me a plot. I. think I discover<'d the joy of gar­dening. 
Now I go to the garden almost ovory morning and hPlp the wom,en. I get wal<'r for the ol<lor wonwn. I learn the dilfor­
l'arn of carrots, lettucP, everyone leaves tho gar­tomators and somr df1n around noon unknown African because it is deathly vegetables. They hot and they want laugh at my to sleep. So we ignorance but pull the pump aµprndatn my out or the well. pfforl. I have They collect all rmvcr held their bucket.<; nugg11ts of' gold and place them in my hands, on their heads. hut wlwn I held One woman rigs thP-ir carrot seeds up her donkey cart in my hand and and they pul some or tried to deliratrly drop the heavy things on it two in 1~ach hole I !cit like and some oldnr pHople. I possessed the most valuable tired children and, periodical-
thing in the world. I felt like I h11ld the livelihood of the village in my hands. When I linishnd this job l looknd back on the plot and folt a sense of accqmplish­mcnL 
Aller about two hours I need a rest each clay. Some days I sit in the shade of a small building with the kids. The younger ones climb all ow1r me and the older 011(\S practice the only English thny know, "llollo, llow am vou'.} Fine, thank you." Other days I sit under trees with various women and they eagerly try to marry me to thdr sons, nephews, fri1mds or cousins. Some days exhaustion over­comes me and I sit by myself and starn off into the J\f'rican horizons and slow down 
to think about what I am aclm.tlly doing. 
ly, me. Other children who have been collecting wood for cooking while their mothers and grandmothers were in the garden join us, too, with big piles of wood on their heads. One day my 4-year-old neighbor was exhausted. Ile grabbed my hand and we started walking home. Some days the comedy of the scene hits me. Most days I am just as excited to get to water and a mat as anyone. 
As I drift between sleep and conscious­ness in my afternoon nap I contemplate what I can do for the garden. They have big plans. 1need to give them direction and access to resources. They need to teach me about gardening in Africa and more particularly the Sahara Desert. They currently have six acres, of which only one is under use. A dream is six acres of vegetable gardens, fruit trees and chick1m farms enclosed by fencing with an easily accessible water source. 
I have a little more than 18 months to study the feasibility of' the project, teach the women how to save money fur the garden. apply for a small loan or !ind some other source of funding, devise a plan to manage the garden and teach this plan to the women and ensure that every­thing is sustainable after I leave. Some days this overwhelms me when I operate in an American frame of mind. On these days I remind myself that here I must operate in a Mauritania frame of mind and I slow down and eagerly await the green shoots that will appear any day. 
Maite Uranga graduated from Notre Dame in 2000 as an anthropology and government major. She is currently a Peace Corps volunteer in the Islamic Republic ofMauritania. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Draw together 
Born and bn•d a Noln' Dame h~gacy, I'w heard plenty of' crn:t.y alnihol-inducPd stories and the good old days at Notre Dam,,. ['m sun' you can rPlatf'. But regardless, whether the administration would lik1~ t<fl'acP it or nol. drinking is a trndi­tion at this Uniwrsitv. 
Ncitlwr tlrn Linivm:sity administration nor the student body benefits from tlw l'urrcnt alrohol conflict. There are the obvious problems studPnts facc>: tailgate paranoia, missing Thursday night Boat Club or evnn loss of privileges such as studying abroad. Yet tlw University administration faces larg•i problems as ,veil. Notrn Dame is one of the few campuses in the nation ·with such a largP pPrcentage of studcnL'> living on campus. Stricter alroholcnfor-rPment does nothing but give students rea­son to move, party and even eat off campus. DoPs the University want to lnsP the "community" it's tried so long to secure? No. and more importantly, although we must enter the scary rnal world somPday, is it really safo for the majority of tho stud1rnt body to fend for thrmsclves and their alcohol habits on St. Pete's or Washington Street? 
/\lthougb tlw simplPst solution is the Univ1irsity administra­tion turning a blind Pye to underage alcohol consumpticm, they 11epd to have reason not to turn around in fear, with jaws droppPd. DancPs arc not a reason to be shipped off in an ambu­lance. desecrate public or private property or throw up on busPs (oops); tailgiltes an' not ample excusn to find yourself ashmp on the cold concrntr.. Our rncent actions semn idiotic, and almost barbaric. l know. we'rn college studr.nts, but wo'rr. µractirnlly asking for Lrouble. behaving as ii' \.rn wore never potty-trai1wd. 
Tlw solution'! It's not an easy question, but I suggest a meet­ing open to the student body and administration. We've seen a fair amount of' advertisements concerning the University's poli­<'i<1s. as wnll as police action, but a meeting with verbal commu­nicaLion would bH most effective; let's draw together thn tiqually frustratnd Notre Damn administration and drv-mouthed student body. . 
Caroline Reams sophmorc Lyons Hall Nov. 20, 2001 

Let's start with the basics 
In recent years there has been a regressive trend emerging at our beloved University. WH have all noticrd it in subtle ways. All the need­less demonstrations of authority at security gates, football games, and while tailgating add up to a simple fact: Notre Dame shows its stu­dents a lack of trust and respect. 
I'm not referring to parietals, or to any funda­mentals of our notorious campus living guide, du Lac. Instead, it's really the little things that matter. Ironically, the things that bother me the most fibout our school are tlrn things that could be most easilv corrected. Therefore, I would like lo propose th.me exceptionally simple ,vays in which the UniVl'rsity could help create an atmosplwrn of' which we can all be proud to be an equal part: 
1. Let us on campus with our cars. I have suf­fered through too many stories about gate secu­rity officers denying students entrance to their own campus. llow difficult would it be to let anyone through who shows student ID? Allow cverynne an hour to park without brow-beating them to olTM good reasons, and then let it be known that campus socurity can ticket cars staying over the limit. Campus security should be looking for ways to accommodate us, not intimidate us. 
2, Lr,t us enjoy ourselves al football gamos. I know that sonw pranksters in the past have thrown objncts mor<! dangProus than marshmal­lows, but attempting to kill this senior tradition is not tlrn answer. Why did the soniors choose marshmallows to hurl in tho first µlace'! Hccauso they won't hurt anyone. Givr us a little credit l'or looking out !'or our own, and back off when you sen tho innocent projecliles l1ying. 
3. Allow 21-vear-old studonts to drink alcohol while tailgalirig, no matter the tailgating "spon­sor," On the whole, Notre Dame students are pretty responsible. Allow those of us who arc legal to support our storied football program and have a good time doing it. After all, in less than a year we will be in the real world, and I think we would benefit from learning for our­selves to make wise decisions regarding alcohol. This is not a novel concept; somehow every other football powerhouse has found a way to make it work. Drinking and driving should not be a serious argument here, because after tail­gating we will be attending a four-hour football game. Besides, the team's performance of late is enough to sober up even the most intoxicatHd of tailgaters. 
Without our student body, what would Notre Dame be? Our University assembles some of the brightr,st and most considerate studr,nts in the nation year after year. Why are we supervised as ii' we am attending a correctional school" The University needs to grant us the courtesy and leniency needed for us to develop as mem­bers of society during the course of our four years hero. To be rr,ady for the real world, stu­dents make choices, and sometimes make mis­takes. Above alL rnost schools recognize that part of college life is in being free to explore who we are. 
For now, the powers that be are well aware that there are plenty of' students waiting in line to attend our University. They may feel no need to compromise with the 21st cfmtury, or with the students who line their pockets with gold. 
However, if potential students begin to get the fooling that Big Brother is watching, they may look Plsewhere. The Notre Dame traditions of family and faith will never din, but unless we make our voices heard, the independent spirit of our student body may soon fade away. 
Mattht:w Smith 

senior off-campus Nocre Dame Student Senate and Campus Lifr Council Nov, 26, 200 l 
Tuesday, November 27, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Amid contraction talks, Selig gets new contract 
Tuesday in Chicago, but it son but didn't select them. The 
Associated Press 
appeared no decision will be Expos and Twins are the most NEWYOHK made on the Minnesota Twins likely candidates, and contrac­Bast>ball commissioner Bud and Montreal Expos. tion then ground to a halt 10 
Snlig is nxpected to get a term Owners voted Nov. 6 to elimi­days later when a Minnesota extension wlrnn ownPrs mePt nate two teams before next sea-judge issued a temporary injunc­
ltl@Jt"s Bdsk@~be111 
WED. Nov. 28 7:30 PM 
,-.I) V§. Ar-rn~ 
" Pro.stette CCl ~cer AwCl ve~e.s.s" c;et V¾e .s-po~.sovect btj MCl~Clgevvte~t C-LCl.s.s 231­
wilt 1'au11cl -trip airlilte tickab "__, n.•.,
,' I, ~ •,,

a11cl adidas apparel J 
. J9~ ~,
-~­


·~ £r. l 
=0-S AIRWAYS .L( 
l 

Students, come to the game and get your GREEN ND Basketball T-Shirt! 
tion that forced the Twins to ful­fill their lease next season at the Mr,trodome. 
Selig did not want to ask own­ers to mak{;! any decisions on contraction while the injunction was in place, a high-ranking baseball official said Monday on th~) condition he not be identified. 
The Twins and baseball have asked the Minnesota Supreme Court for a speedy review of the injunction, requesting a hearing no later than Dec. 7. The Metropolitan Sports Facilities Commission, which operates the Metrodome, must file its response by Wednesday. 
Owners want to eliminate the Expos, who averaged just 7,648 fans per game at Olympic Stadium this year. 
Twins owner Carl Pohlad, frus­trated at the Minnesota govern­ment's refusal to fund a new ballpark, is willing to have his team eliminated in exchange for 

Special on Color Copies 
8.5 X 11 regular paper only 
.79 

a contraction payment, even though his team has been prof­itable in recent years and raised its average attendance from 13,083 in 2000 to 22,287 this year. 
Meanwhile, no decisions have been made on the possible sales of the Florida Marlins or Anaheim Angels. Expos owner Jeffrey Loria has talked to Marlins owner John Henry about buying the Marlins, but has not reached an agreement, the base­ball official said. 
Henry has expressed interest in purchasing the Angels from The Walt Disney Co., but those talks haven't progressed and Henry has said he is willing to become a minority investor in Tom Werner's bid to buy control of the Boston Red Sox. 
While the Twins and Expos await word on whether they'll be around next year, Selig is likely to stay in place for years. 
Selig, whose family has con­trolled the Milwaukee Brewers since 1970, was elected to a live­year term as commissioner in July 1998, and owners will be asked tu extend it fur at least three additional years, according to a high-ranking team official who spoke on the condition of anonymity. 
Selig, 67, is expected to gain the extension with little or no opposition is expected from own­ers, many indebted to him for his past assistance with individual team problems. 
This Week in 
Campus 
ColemanMors~ Center ~~~~~!!V 
¦~da_v______ 
Campus Bible Study/CBS 
7:00 p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center Fr. Al O'Alonzo, csc, Director 
Confirmation­Session #6 
7:00 p.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 

·...,,nesdav 

Conversation on Vocations for Women 
7:30 p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Coffee at the Co-Mo 
8:00 p.m. Lounge, Coleman-Morse Center 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
10:00 p.m. Morrissey Chapel 
llll!ili!'!!-:d-8-V_________ 
807 Mass 
8:00 p.m. Lounge, Coleman-Morse Center 
ROTC Freshman Retreat 
Moreau Seminary 
"All Made in God's Image": Gay/Lesbian Retreat 
NOE Retreat #68 
Fatima Retreat Center 


av 
RCIA Inquiry Session 
10:00 a.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
First Sunday of Advent 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Spanish Mass 
1:30 p.m. Zahm Hall Chapel 
Law School Mass 
5:00 p.m. Law School Chapel 
MBA Mass 

7:00 p.m. Mendoza College of Business Chapel 

The Way Catholic Bible Study 
8:30 p.m. 331 Coleman-Morse Center 


Campus Ministry Retreats • 631-6633 
Freshman Retreat #38 
(December 7-8, 2001) 
Applications available: 

Monday, Nov. 12 -Monday, Dec. 3 
114 Coleman-Morse Center 
NOE Retreat #69 
(February 1-3, 2002) 
Applications available: 

Monday, Dec. 3 • Friday, Dec. 7 
114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Tuesday, November 27, 2001 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Humphrey leads Irish in Hawaii 


By ANDREW SOUKUP Associate Sports Editor 

Don't make Ryan Humphrey sit out two games ever again. 
In his first three games back from serving an NCAA suspen­sion, Humphrey averaged 23.6 points per game en route to being named the MVP of the Hawaii-Pacific Thanksgiving Classic. 
The 5-0 Irjsh defeated Hawaii-Pacific 98-58, Tennessee-Chattanooga 97-84 and Monmouth 85-48, as they won the Thanksgiving Classic. 
In addition to Humphrey, the Irish placed three other mem­bers on the All-Tournament team. Matt Carroll, David Graves and Chris Thomas each secured a spot on the 10-per­son squad. 
Interest for the tournament was not very high, as the Irish. the tournament's biggest name, only drew about 1,250 people for each game. 
In the championship game against Monmouth. Humphrey led all scorers with 21 points. Graves and Carroll each added 15 points for the Irish, who led 36-23 at halftime. 
The Irish shot 54 percent from the field while limiting the Hawks to just 32 percent. Notre Dame also held a 48-26 rebounding edge. 
Against Tennessee-
Chattanooga in the second round, Humphrey and Carroll paced the Irish with 20 points apiece. Thomas and Harold Swanagan each added 19 points, and Graves chipped in 
13. All five members of Notre Dame's starting lineup played at least 34 minutes. 
Notre Dame only led by six points at the half, and Tennessee-Chattanooga held a one-rebound advantage despite both Graves and Swanagan recording 10 rebounds apiece. The Irish shot 57.4 percent from the field and 66. 7 percent from 3-point range. 
In the tournament opener against Hawaii-Pacific, Humphrey scored 26-first half points en route to a career-high 31 point performance. He added 10 rebounds to record his first double-double of the season. 
Graves had 17 points on 7 -of­11 shooting and Carroll chipped in with 15 points. 
Thomas was only 1-10 from the field, connecting on a three pointer. but he recorded a career-high 13 assists and didn't turn the ball over. 
Notre Dame's next game is Wednesday night when the Irish host Army. Game time is 
7:30 p.m. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu, 

---~jJN-=G._QJl~s._ IMAJilL_ 
THE 6TH ANNUAL RETREAT FOR GAY, LE~BIAN, BISXUAL UNDERGRADUATE~ AND THEIR ~UPPORTERS 
4pm Friday November 30 •6pm Saturday December 1 
tJ~we, a,t,e,, dL ~lPV/4irnCijf)&, 
we,jJ~-ba-celdtare M-O-& cul~-1-~ {0,/ ~w, 
~ a,~ g~<l/ uo. ~ ~,
126/ CwJ.,& 
wv CJ~, 

For more information contact: 
Fr. J. Steele, CSC 1-8144 Tami Schmitz 1-3016 
jsteelel@nd.edu tschmitz.8@nd.edu 
Applications available in the Campus Ministry Retreat Office, 114 Coleman Morse. 
Completed application deadline is Wednesday, November 28 Please return forms to 114 Coleman Morse. 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 

Announcing the 7th Annual Keough Summer Internships 
mlreland 
The Keough Internship will include: 
1. 
Seven weeks' internship 

2. 
Round trip airfare from the United States to Ireland 

3. 
Room and board 

4. 
Stipend 


AIJ Notre Dame JUNIORS with a demonstrated inter­est in Irish Studies/Ireland are encouraged to apply. 
Applications available in the Keough Institute for Irish Studies 1146 Flanner Hall 
irishstu@nd.edu 

TucsdJy, November 27, 2001 page 17
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
-----=============================-:=-=-=-=-=-====---=-=--=-====-=--~=---==-============­

In this time of terrible loss and momentous decisions, the Center for Social Concerns offers resources through this website to assist individuals develop infonned views, seek spiritual sustenance, and find just, wise, and effective ways to respond. 
Please visit: http://centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu/septll 
Social Concern Seminars/SSPis/ISSLPs 

Summer Service Project Internships: Summer Service Project Internships are eight-week service-learning experiences sponsored by Notre Dame alumni clubs across the country. Room and board is provided while students work with agencies serving disadvantaged populations. 
Watch for the Summer Service Project Internship Blitz week 11/26 -30th !! 
The Last SSPI Info Session-before Christmas break is Wed, November 28th, at 7:00 PM at the CSC. 
A CCI ON Internships: For Junior Business majors only. 10 -12 weeks working with ACCION offices that are
ACCt•N 

microlending organizations. $2500.00 Scholarship. Room and board stipend provided. 
From Field to Table Sociology 468, Immersion in lmmokalee, Florida, March 9-17, 2002 Description: 


Building upon the richness of the Migrant Seminar, this semester long course examines changing food production in America and the impact on the people involved in the food system. The course will introduce students to the cultural and social issues surrounding migrant farm labor through both classroom and experiential learning. Those who participate in this seminar commit themselves during spring break to working with migrant farm workers in Southern Florida. 
Instructor permission required, Maximum enrollment-15 students. This seminar is a three credit Sociology course (with a variable credit option.) Applications available at the Sociology Department (810 Flanner) and the Center for Social Concerns; Contact Professor Lincoln Johnson,.Johnson.4@nd.edu, 631-7615, or Carl Loesch, Loesch.4@nd.edu, 631-3175 
.Post..Graduate Service: 
Faculty! Holy Cross Associates 
WILL YOU HELP STUDENTS THINK Holy Cross Associates Satellite Office Hours in the Coleman-Morris Campus Min­
ABOUT THEIR URBAN PLUNGE istry Building: Every Wednesday from 12 p.m.-2 p.m. Stop by with questions or 
EXPERIENCE? just to talk with Anne Moriarty or Rebekah Go about th~ HCA post-graduate ·· service program! Additional hours possible if_requested by ca.Ding: 1-5521 
Over the winter break, about 200 students will have an intense 48-hour experience in a city somewhere 
Current Volunteer Needs 
in the U.S., with individuals, organizations, and 
Mentors 
parishes addressing urban problems including 
Melanie Williams 234-6985 
poverty, racism, and violence. We are looking for She is looking for role models/mentors to spend some time with her daughters, aged 10-12. 
faculty to spend a few hours with a small group of They enjoy games, puzzles, crafts and outdoor activities. Transportation to Notre Dame 
these students, to help them think about ~he can be provided. 
questions, both personal and academic, that this opportunity has provoked, and to guide them 
Second Grade Tutor 
toward resources (courses, readings, individuals) for 
Carla Cross 233-3756 
pursuing their questions further. If you are willing She is in need of a tutor for her second grade son. Student would need their own 
to explore this possibility, please contact Rebecca transportation to 617 Cottage Grove. 
Pettit at the Center for Social Concerns. 
Jefferson Elementary -Learn.Fun Program Tamika Jones 283-8720 
Looking for some tutors to help with homework during theLeam.Fun Program. It serves children K-6th grade, Monday-Thursday from 2:40p.m.­3:30p.m. They would be happy to have volunteers for even just one to two days a week. 
Riley Hi&:h School Eric Collins 283-8421 
Looking for tutors to assist their afterschool program. Commitment would be two days a week from 3:00p.m.-4:30p.m. Help is especially needed in Algebra and Chemistry. 
Washington High School Mrs. Roberts 283-7200 
Washington High School is a diverse urban school, serving mostly African American and Hispanic students, They are interested in starting an after school program and looking for some students to serve as tutors. 
***If you have any questions about these volunteer projects feel free to email cscvols@nd.edu.*** 
http;//centerforsodalconcems.nd..edu 631-5293 * Hours: M-F 8AM-10PM Sat.10AM-2PM Sun. 6PM-9PM 
Tuesday, November 27, 2001 
SMC WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Blair's 26 leads Belles in first victory 
By JOE HETTLER 
Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's basketball team didn't just feast on turkey during Thanksgiving break -the Belles also had their first taste of victory. 
On Tuesday, senior captain and forward Anne Blair led the Belles past Manchester College by notching 26 points, 16 rebounds and four blocked shots en route to a 68-62 win. Junior guard Shaun Russell also added 12 points and three assists for the Belles. 
Overall head coach Susan Smith attributed the victory to a quick start and a strong finish by the Belles. 
"We came out in the first 15 minutes and played really well and took the lead pretty quickly," said Smith. "[Manchester] made some adjustments and threw [us] a match-up zone in the second half, so we strµggled a little with that. It came down to the end and we had some young players come through for us." 
Katie Miller, who got her first career start because regular starter Mary Campione was ill, was one of those young players stepping up for the Belles. 
"[Miller] stepped into the starting role and just did a great job," said Smith. 
Miller felt the Belles played a good game and deserved their first win of the season. 
"We started off on a good note and we needed a win," said Miller. "We were ready for a win." 
Unfortunately for the Belles, their momentum from Tuesday's game didn't carry over to Friday's game against Indiana University-South Bend. Part of the reason behind their 80-67 loss was due to a reshuffled line-up. 
"We did not go with our full team [on Friday]." said Smith. "f\Iary Campione was feeling ill. Katie Christensen went home for family reasons over the break and Kristen Matha was injured in Tuesday's game -and she's a starting post player for us. So three pretty key people were not there for us on Friday." 
According to Smith, the Belles came out and started strong again, but just could not close the gap near the end of the game. 
Despite the loss. Saint Mary's got another good game from a young player. 
"Freshman Emily Creachbaum had a career high 24 points and played really well," said Smith. "It was kind of her .homecoming because we were playing in town, and she's a local kid, so she had friends and family at the game." 
After a 1-3 start to the sea­son, Smith hopes her team can begin playing better, more consistent basketball this weekend when the Belles host the Saint Mary's Roundball Classic. 
"We talked about it as a team [on Sunday] and we said that this week probably wasn't our best week because we kind of stayed the same," said Smith. 
"We're real excited about getting back [home]. We have three practices this week, hopefully our whole team will be back and then we'll really get fired up to play at home on Saturday and hopefully have our break out game." 
The Belles play _Marian College on Friday at 8 p.m. and at either 1 p.m. in the consolation game or 3 p.m. in the championship game on Saturday. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu. 



"As You vVish" \.Qt·"'
IMpor"J>TS -0-­
LOADSOFSILVER&BEADEDJEWELRY . ri;. ...., SILVER RINGS AND TOE RINGS ...,. '\ TAPESTRY WALL HANGINGS/BEDSPREADS AND MUCH MUCfi MORE.•• 
PURSES, WALLETS, CHANGE PURSES, INCENSE SARONGS 
DIRECT IMPORTERS! LOW PRICES! UNIQUE CHRISTMAS GIFTS! 
Guatemala • Bolivia • Peru • Thailand• Mexico • India 
Proceeds from sales of jewelry gaurantee the loving hands of Guatemalan families 3 times their average salary, as well as funds for their education. 
LaFortune Room 108 (Near Telephones) No11. 26 -Dec. 1 (Sat, 10 to 5 m 
NELLIE WILLIAMS/The Observer Saint Mary's freshman forward Emily Creachbaum drives to the basket during a recent practice. Creachbaum scored 24 points in Saint Mary's 80-67 loss to IUSB last week. 
Lool~ing for a Sumrr1er Internship? 
How about one that offers... 
o 
A choice of l20 locations nationwide 

o 
Hands-on experiential learning 

o 
Invaluable ND alumni contact opportunities 

o 
Leadership experience 

o 
$2900+ tax-free tuition credit (Including Americorps funding) 


All rolled into one amazing service opportunity... 
The Summer Service Project INTERNSHIP 
Find out more at the Center for Social Concerns 
LAST SESSION OF THE SEMESTER! 
·----~Wednesday, November 28 th @ 7:00p.m:,-~::,­
MAl<E A DIFFERENCE. 
Applications available at the Center for Social Concerns 
Tuesday, November 27, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
Break 
continued from page 24 
Batteast's pass was deflected by Wildcat freshman Dee-Dee Wheeler, who had 18 points in the game, and Elizabeth Pickney wrapped up a career-high 27­point game by nailing a two­point shot that sealed the Arizona victory. 
Although that final mistake ended the game, there was no one thing that could be pinpoint­ed as the cause of the Irish loss. 
"We really gave that game away," McGraw said. "I don't think that one play loses a game for us. We had a series of things where we lost our concentra­tion. and so we had a lot of things you could point to that you could say, 'This is where you lost the game."' 
Arizona's perfect shooting from the free-throw line didn't help Notre Dame. The Wildcats were 20-20 from the line, com­pared to the Irish's 19-24 per­formance from the line. 
But turnovers and free-throw shooting weren't all that played a part in the loss. The young Irish team is still adjusting and its players are trying to find their positions. And without the defensive leadership of Amanda Barksdale, it's not surprising that the Irish can't always quite find their footing. 
"And the same thing with Arizona -just a couple of plays where we just gave them easy shots and if we can just take away those, you know one each, they kind of take turns being in the wrong spot and with that many freshmen they're going to be in the wrong spot," McGraw said. "I think what we need is a steady influence in the back and that's what Mandy will bring us, leadership, but also someone who knows what she's doing who can direct from the back line. I think that's what we're missing on defense." 
Saturday's loss came close on the heels of a 72-66 loss to the Rams of Colorado State that taught McGraw and her team that there can be satisfaction in a loss. The team's first road game landed Notre Dame in a 
hostile arena that houses a ranked team. 
"That was a great game for us because [Colorado's} a ranked team," McGraw said. "They had 7,000 or 8,000 people. It was a great crowd, pretty hostile envi­ronment, loud, very loud." 
Nearing the end of the first half, the Irish. were trailing by nine, but a 10-point run put the Irish on top 33-32 ½ith a minute left in the opening half. 
But the Rams were not to be defeated on home court. In 54 seconds they posted seven points to gain a 39-33 lead that they would not relinquish for the remainder of the game. 
Despite the score, McGraw was more than satisfied with her team's performance. an unusual feeling from a coach who likes to win. 
"I was really pleased and you know that was one of the first times I think in a long time that I've been really pleased after a loss," McGraw said. "So that was a big step forward. We just improved so much." 
Following the low-scoring Valaparaiso game, the 66 points the Irish scored were a big improvement. Ratay, who scored 19 points against Arizona, led the scoring with 16. Le'Tania Severe was the No. 2 scorer for the Irish, adding a career-high 15 points. 

"I think if she gets 10 points, I'm really happy, so for her to get 12 or 15, that was her career high," McGraw said. " I don't think we're going to expect her to score a lot of 
points. It's a  bonus, I think, if  
she scores."  
Freshman  Katie  Flecky  

returned home to Colorado ·with eight points and six rebounds and Batteast wrapped up Irish scoring with 13 points. 
"I thought Katie Flecky had a great week," McGraw said. "She played well against both teams. rebounded well. So that's a big improvement for us, having Katie step up." 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 

For those interested in: 
ACE K-12 teaching career Career in educational research, school psychology, social work 
Army 
continued from page 24 
In fact, the only area from which Batteast struggled was from behind the 3-point line, where she hit only two of eight attempts. For the game, Notre Dame launched 28 shots from behind the arc, a school record. 
"I'm happy with the way that I rebounded. If that's how I'm going to have to help the team win then I'll stop shooting 3s," Batteast joked. 
Sophomore point guard Lc'Tania Severe, also new to the starting lineup this year , added 13 points and four assists in 26 minutes. 
"She's pushing the ball, she's finding the open man and she made some shots tonight because she was open but she's looking to set everybody else up," McGraw said. "She's being a great leader for us." 
Alicia Ratay scored 12 points in 23 minutes, with her points corning on four 3-point field goals. Other than freshman point guard Jill Krause, every player on the Irish roster scored at least one basket. Junior walk-on Karen Swanson netted five points late in the game, tying a career-high and drawing cheers from adoring fans. Sophomore Jeneka Joyce and freshman Kelsey Wicks added seven points apiece off the bench. "Having the bench come in 
and play well allowed us to play 
people a little bit less, which 
really helped us," McGraw said. A 3-pointer from Elkhart native Amy Saal pulled the Black Knights within 15 points early in the second half, but after that the Irish lead kept growing. 
Notre Dame finished with a 10-3 run to improve to 85-1 all­time when holding an opponent under 60 points. 
At the start of the game, the Irish got out to a quick 7 -0 lead behind a Ratay 3-pointer and two lay-ins by Batteast. Notre Dame built that lead to 13-5, but couldn't maintain focus against a Black Knights squad that has already fallen to the likes of Columbia, Hofstra and Davidson. 
After a Le'Tania Severe 3­pointer gave the Irish a 18-10 lead, Army fought back behind an Amy Saal three-point play and a Christina Canelli 3-point­er to close the gap to 18-16. After Notre Dame took a 30­second timeout, Army stole the ball and Saal hit a 5-footer to knot the game at 18. 
"In transition, we really had a problem remembering what we were doing," McGraw said. "That was when they got a bunch of open shots. At that point we decided we would just play man-to-man and I think the full-court pressure really 
· helped us." 
Then the Irish decided -":.: enough was enough. Ratay hit ' two consecutive 3-pointers, : >,, keying a 15-2 run which put '-!.:. :<Notre Dame up 33-20. Each , ;,/team managed nine points "~ apiece over the final fi~e and a , half minutes, and the Insh went · into the locker room with a 47­
31 advantage. 
Ratav contributed 12 first half points, while Batteast and Severe put in 11 apiece in the opening 20 minutes. Batteast grabbed nine rebounds in the first half. 
Contact Noah Amstadter at Amstadter. l@nd.edu. 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 27, 2001 
Swimming 
continued from page 24 

credit for what they're doing ... but we still tend to take each meet one at a time." 
Beyond the team ranking, the Irish have also catapulted several swimmers into the national top 2 5 times, an achievement that the team is taking as an early-season sign of possible NCM success. 
Sophomore Marie Labosky ranks sixth in the 1,000-yard freestvle and 18th in the 400­yard · individual medley. Freshman Kristen Peterson is 20th in the 100-yard back­stroke, and 10th in the 200­backstroke. Sophomore Laurie Musgrave is 20th in both the 100 and 200-yard breastroke. Sophomore Lisa D'Olier is 17th in the 100­yard butterfly and 22nd in the 200-yard butterfly. 
Senior Kelly Hecking is ranked ninth in the 100-yard backstroke and 25th in the 200-yard backstroke. Senior Carrie Nixon, after sitting out last season due to a shoulder injury, holds the team's high­est individual national rank­ing, earning second place in the 50-yard freestyle. Nixon also earned a national berth in the 100-yard freestyle, ranked 14th. And the 200­yard freestyle relay is ranked first in the country. 
For a team that's been look­ing to make the transition from a dominant conference team to a dominant national team, the mid-season rank­ings are good news -and right where we want to be. 
At the beginning of the sea-

NELLIE WILLIAMS!The Observer 

Allison Lloyd swims during a home meet ~arller this season. The Irish are now ranked 13th in the country. 
son, the team sat down and  er, that the team will be tak­ off that."  
decided it wanted  to  be  a  ing Big East lightly. While the  The  Irish  don't  hit  the  
team that focused  more on  meet is a little more comfort­ championship season until  
the national championships  able with  a  national ranking  late February, and still have  
than  the  Big  East  padding the season  behind  dual  meets  and  the  Notre  
Championships, Riggs said.  them, the Irish still take pride  Dame Invitational left ahead  
During  a  preseason  goal  in the recent announcement  of them in the regular season.  
meeting, the squad decided it wanted one thing: to be a top 10 team. "We've wanted to compete on the national level for awhile," Riggs said. "After we signed the freshman class last  that Irish swimmers have the top times in every event. But many are looking to see if they can get the times needed to qualify for nationals. And it's because they want more.  But the midseason success has been a motivator for the team, Riggs said. "It's just a step along the way," she said. "We still want to be top 10 ... now we're wondering if maybe we can  i~R!ifFACEu,.__..a..  
year, the team's really pulled together to chance the focus.  "It's awesome, it's the high­est we've ever been ranked.  be better than top 10."  DUTPDSiT  
We want to shift to the men­ but we're not going to accept  ~  
tality that we can be a nation­ that. We want more," said  Cold Weather Experts  
al level team, not just Big East champions." That doesn't mean, howev- Labosky. "Everybody's so excited about where we're ranked we just keep feeding  Contact Noreen Gillespie at giU0843@saintmarys.edu.  5minutes from Campus Call 259-1000 formore details ..  

I I I iI ! I t )  .... :~:}.~ .',~~ p.n~ ~Jdlf~ij~e,:[n~~~'. s~rie{·: 'J.Ko.owYo :··' ·. .o~faith'twm:reflect~ .dn'.f~)~Jfral!foa~;;_~(th~ Catholic '-~·-~t:_i_­... -. -._··..: -..:.:___~\/f~. ,-·--•· ·:~ .  
~  faith,s~Jh.~t~tude~icome away with;  
aclearide~bf~hithe Church holds  
fiit1r'-ai!~0~lt  
.__·~ncf~rstaf!d_i_o~'RfJll~fll-·/fb~tcourse1:  
'Will bebase:d-.on'th~'tatechism.ofthe·  
:Jt/1\.:rf.i4~ ;t•.<~'J.,o -:~:-<:>. -~:· ·.:-,_~-~-~-,;·'. • '. -. '.1\--. • '..??:~''.:f::· ·,C~th()!ic Cbor¢h plus.other}Jertinenr  
.1J4i·;·'.sup~(erneJ)~d :b.Y 'pgrs:o·n~t .. ,.• ··:;{f,:!· ;, . ' :§_.:~~ ··_,.:_:-~---'.~-!'_'~-~:;· ·.. • _· _··._· -··~ <~ ,,; re~.~~tiq~ and e_~p-~ne11.t1al·learning·\-~;;.:;:-;··~---_·. ..··•·. ". ~: •.,-_; .: '.•>-.~ ., ·' . -~ . -_ ·, ·. :wl\ere:?ppropri~te,:~ "(hese ~Lirses. --,,:,~~~~~-"> ·_;··•. '.-::1-:\,:.:;~/_s:}t'.:'.;;_-,.... ,'__ ,-:,>?.''"Yi._ •;,,,· .:\:: . should· meeftthe·needs·:of those--:~:~t~:_...,.__:_·,_.~ ~_·,_~~,"-::. _·-: ..__ ~·­.. ,,· ·/ -':•· .·. _·•': .~students\vho:.know:::.Uttte obiothing' i Ci~t)&'.,",.'°;?t~~{:,,'Vi#?'· ·•· i~!F+;{\  



offered by the

A New Series 
Department of 

of One-Credit 
Theology in cooperation with the Office of Campus Ministry 
Courses 
Prayer 

Theo. 340A. 1 credit. S/U Instructor: Lawrence Cunningham 
Time: 6:00 p.m.-8:30 p.m., Feb. 13, 17, 24, March 3, 24 
Jesus and Our Hope 
Coleman Morse Center, Rm. 330 
Theo. 3401. 1 credit. S/U Instructor: Rev. Brian Daley, SJ Time: 7:00 p.m. -9:05 p.m., March 19, 21, 26, 28, April 2, 4 O'Neill Hall 
The Christian 
Way of Life: 

An Introduction to
Faith & Revelation 
Catholic Moral Theology
Theo. 340G. 1 credit. S/U 
Theo. 340H. 1 credit. S/UInstructor: Rev. Virgil Elizondo Instructor: Rev. Edward Malloy, CSC

Friday Feb. 8: 4:00 p.m. -10:00 p.m. 
Time: 7:00 p.m. -9:05 p.m. 

Saturday, Feb 9: 9:00 a.m. -7:00 p.m. 
Jan. 28, Feb. 11, March 4, 18, April 4, 15 Coleman-Morse Center Coleman-Morse Center, Rm. 330 
For further information, contact Dorothy Anderson in the Theology Department, 631-6662. Syllabi for the courses can be obtained at the Theology Dept'. main office.Register thro~gh DART or go to the Registrars ofjice 
Tuesday, November 27, 2001 The Obserz,er . SPORTS page 21 
Questioning if Stanford deserves our presence 
\Vp've alrPady talked about Notrn Dame football losses five limes this year. 
Doing so a sixth time might be a litlln much. 
Unfor­tunatl'!y, it wasn't an unfamiliar story-li11e: tlw Irish playing hard tlw whole 
gamn. ha\'­
ing a good shot to win tlw ganw down tlrn strPtch but tlwn cmning up short. 
Lik(' Boston Colh•gn about a month ParliPr, Stanford blanked Notre 


KELLI 
Dame in the fourth quarter and came back for a four point win. 
But who wants to talk about a 17-13 Cardinal victory that dropped the Blue and Gold to 4­
(:).? 
I want to know why this "rivalry·· has been set up in the first place. These two schools have played in all but two years since 1988 and will keep meet­ing each other on an annual basis into the foreseeable future. 
!\lo, Lhis isn't a knock against the Stanford Cardinal football team. They am an 8-2 group that's in the top 10 of the BCS and deserve a better bowl trip than Seattle in late December. which they'll probably be forced to accept. 
Their head coach, Tyrone Willingham, even went out to check on an injured player down on the field, something I haven't seen any head coach do 
recently. 
And as the Cardinal seniors finished their final home game, the half-empty stadium looking on, I couldn't help but think ... 

Wait a minute -there's the first reason this series has got to go. They have an 8-2, top 10 team, but the Stanford faithful only turned out to the tune of 51,534 per game this year in a stadium that holds 85,500? 
Forget plenty of good seats being available. It's 'Name Your Own Section' night. 
Saturday's game looked a lot like two years ago, when .Jarious Jackson played his last r:ollegiate game in front of less than 58,000 seemingly uninter­ested spectators on the same field. 
What a sad and undeserved way to cap off a career. 

But hey, the Cardinal were only going to the Rose Bowl that yi>ar, so why would anyone want to see them then? (I can still hear that ABC commercial calling Notre Dame Stanford's "tune-up" for Pasadena. That's when I realized how bad the 1999 season was.) 
And what's with this whole mascot thing they have going? They're the Cardinal, presum­ably a shade of the color red, which is fine. So why does that mean there needs to be a big danr.ing Christmas tree running around on the sidelines. too? 
I spent the whole game hop­ing Leprechaun alum Mike Brown would emerge and put Smokey's best friend in his place. 
That tree certainly isn't there to pump up the fans because, as we already established, there aren't too many. There were only three audible chants all night: "Let's Go Irish," "Go Irish" (with one section yelling "Go" and the other "Irish"), and "We are ND," the last particu­larly biting considering they really aren't ND. 
Then there's the band. Oh, the Stanford marching band, those cute rogues that are banned from Notre Dame Stadium after a particularly offensive halftime show a few years ago. 
Here's your multiple choice quiz for the day; the Cardinal band is slightly less classy than: I al cutting in front of someone in a dining hall line lb] loudly playing your "Sandstorm" and Zombie Nation MP3s at 4 a.m. in a vain effort to capture the essence of Heartland !cl a guy burping in his girlfriend's fa~e Idl all of the above. 
I don't know which part of the halftime extravaganza I liked more: the big banner that read "CENSORED" that the band would only show to the student section or spelling out 4-6 when Notre Dame led 10-3 at the half. 
Call me crazy, but I don't think they did that because they just really love their team. 
As we left the stadium and wandered into an eerie silence for team that had just won its eighth game, I thought about the spectacle I had just seen. 
It was one that would make Texas high school football col­lectively shake its head, not because of the game on the field, but because of the lack of everything else. 
I'm not sure why Notre Dame keeps playing in that college football abyss. hut I do know one thing: I'd rather go to a place with a 4-6 team where everyone cares than a school where an 8-2 team clearly doesn't get the support it should. 
Of course, as was pointP.d out to me, we'll have to wait until next year to drop the Cardinal so the Irish can beat them and not look like sore losers. 
As for me, I'm just happy to be back where the Rock isn't a geological formation and danc­ing trees are rare. 
It was starting to get scary. 
Email Ted Fox at tfox@nd.edu. The opinio"rzs expressed in this cnl11mn are those ofthe author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 
,-------~-­
page 22 

The Observer . SPORTS 
Soccer 
continued from page 24 

Luke Boughen blasted a shot from about 30 yards away. The shot squarely struck the top left corner of the goal• post. and a Terrapin defend· er was able to clear the ball 
awav.

"In the first half, we had to fight very hard to get into that game," Clark said. "Give Maryland a little credit for that because they made it very difficult for us to play early on." 
The Irish seemed to shake off the cobwebs about mid­way through the second half. Kevin Goldthwaite took a free kick which found mid· fielder Justin Ratcliffe. Ratcliffe's ensuing shot was deflected out of bounds just shy of the goal. 
With 20 minutes left in the second half, a hard shot by Irish midfielder Justin Detter was just barely saved by 
Maryland  goalie  Noah  
Palmer.  
On the following  run  by  
Maryland,  forward  Hobert  

Sjolund took Palmer's clear­ing kick and charged towards the goal with a prime oppor­tunity. However, his shot was knocked out by Sawyer. The rebound by Jason Arnold was also controlled by Sawyer. 
Just as the game seemed to head into overtime, Maryland threatened off a corner kick on the near side of the field with just under two minutes to go in the game. The Notre Dame defense, which had held firm for the entire game, was able to clear the soaring cross, but Welker passed the ball to Buete, whose shot was the only one of the game to find the back of the net. 
"You know, it's funny. I thought they scored right when we were getting back into it the most," Clark said. "But that's soccer." 
The Irish, still in shock from the late score, mustered all the offense that it could in the final minute, but could not get the equalizer-before the final whistle. 
"It was a game that easily could have gone either way; luckily we came out on top," said Maryland head coach Sasha Cirovski. "The game had everything you would want in an NCAA tournament game." 
The Terrapins outshot the Irish, 9-6, for the game. 
With the loss, the Irish fin­ish the season with a 12-7 record. However, four of the seven losses came via a 1-0 score. 
"I think we just got unlucky [in the game!." said Irish senior defender Griffin Howard. "Hopefully the expe­riences we 'vo had this year, hopefully the younger guys will be able to build on them." 
The stunning loss particu• larly deflated the Trish's seniors, who had very little time to react to playing in their last game for Notre Dame. 
''I'm very sad for· my seniors ... that was their first opportunity _to be in the NCAAs, I would have loved to have stayed a little longer," Clark said. 
However. the Irish were able to turn around the soc­cer program after two con· 
-~­
Tuesday, November 27, 2001 

secutive sub-.500 seasons. Friday's game marked the first time since 1996 that Notre Dame found itself play­ing in the end-of-the-year NCAA tournament. 
"It is a step in the right direction. hopefully we'll come back and take it a little further next year," Clark 
said. ­
Notes 
. 
In the second round game Sunday in College Park, the visiting Loyola Greyhounds defeated the Terrapins 1-0 in double overtime. 

. 
In other College Cup action, three Big East teams made it to the round of 16, as St. John's, Rutgers and Seton Hall all advanced. St. John's defeated Massachusetts in the round of 32 Sunday, Rutgers defeated Harvard Friday and upset Big East rival Connecticut 1-0 in triple overtime Sunday and Seton Hall upset second-seeded Virginia Sunday. 


Contact Bryan Kronk at bkronk@nd.edu. 

Coll 259-1000 for more details. 
Are 9ou read9 for some basketba\U 
Notre Dome Men•s Bosketbo\\ vs.. OePou\ 
$25.00 for a round t.rip 
at the United Center chart.er bus t.icllet. Cdoes 
in Chicago Soturdo9/ December 1/ 2001
not include game ticllet.». 
Game starts at 1:00 _pm. Bus \eaves from Stepan Center at
Bus leaves from Stepan Cen­
I0:30 am. Bus \eaves to return
ter at 11:30 am for a 4:30pm 
to campus 30 minutes after 
,game on Saturday., December 
the game ends. 
I., 200l Bus leaves to return 
to can1pus 30 minutes after $2s..oo for round the game ends. trip transportation You can purchase tickets at the 
and game ticket.
LaFortune Information Desk. This bus trip is open to all Tickets are avai\ab\e at the students~ staff and faculty. lof'ortune Information 
Sponsored by the Desk. Student Activities Office. Sponsored by Student Union Board For more information call J-7308. and the Student Activities Office. 

Tuesday, November 27, 2001 The Observer . TODAY page 23 RYAN
FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNINGHAM 


0.A.R.T. OF THE FUTVR€: ~IRECT ~CCESS B.EGISTIUTION BY IEI..EPATMV 
-P~.-Lo.-t \~,.K 10<1 o~ \\•S {:,J, b~o.'7.Se. M~I~ 11ow Av11t l)et+y 
lt)i\l fvt i\ ''\. ~u f()A +-r-o.f MJ we. Uf\ \°'"ve freciou.s :s,le~ce ~ ko ~eccM5 . 
__________j 
BILL AMEND
FOXTROT 
.......
HAVE YoUR oUY 
SPl<AY IT 

WHO CARES USE THE FLAME. 
l<EEP USIIII& IT! 
ALL OVER 

PAI(;(, A8oUT THE TI-iRoWElt 
WHY ARE 'l'OU 
ALL THE GAME?! I'M
THE PLACE. ­s,oPPING?! 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 25 They make your 57 Thug 1 Mayhem time more 58 Brief apology 
valuable 60 Peevish humor6 French novelist 26 Boston hub 

Andre 61 Writer Dinesen 
31 Contents of 

10 White House 62 Missouri River 
Pandora's box 

dweller, tributary
32 Years and years 
informally 63 "The Awakening"
33 Highchair attire 

14 Madison Square protagonist
36 Pickling herb 

Garden, for one 64 Snakelike fish 
37 Nast

15 Yemeni port 65 Olympics unit 
39 Second16 New York's introduction? 

state flower DOWN
40 Tack on 

17 Desert 1 Put up on the
41 All there

bordering the wall
42 Word that

Sinai 2 War deity
follows the start 

18 Shipshape of 21-, 26-, 43-3 Lyra's brightest star
19 "I'm here'" and 50-Across 20 Fed. property 43 Yellowish-brown 4 "A Chorus Line" 
number

overseer 46 Host Conan 5 Stalactite sites 
49 Literary _ 6 Proponent of
21 Organization for 
senior travelers SO Edits nonviolent24 David of 53 Expected protest"Rhoda" 56 Half of zwei 
7 fixe 8 CostlyANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 Put in power 
P EA K 10 "To your health!" Puzzle by Sarah Keller 

DAD ..,..+-,-+,,,...... RIE 11 Defeats 30 Pea's place 44 Toasting sounds 51 Snoop (around) 
decisively

H I G 33 Roseanne, once 45 Well-supplied 52 Locomotive fuel 12 Cosmetician
0 N 34 Concerning resource?
Lauder 53 "Dadgummit!"
35 Hopalong 46 Corpulent
13 Enthusiasms 54 Craving
Cassidy 47 Unquestioning,
...+~.+,.-f 22 Mauna 
portrayer Bill as faith 55 Observer 
--+_--+-...,, 23 Coxswain's 
37 Name on many 48 Altercation 59 Sugar suffix 
com_mand 
libraries24 Chutzpah 38 "Not bet!"

26 Zeus visited her Answers to any three clues in this puzzle
39 Glass tube filler 
as a swan are available by touch-tone phone: 27 Exiled Latin poet 41 Put one's foot 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute).down
28 Embellish richly Annual subscriptions are available for the 29 Keep the issues 42 Bloom best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 coming 43 Nap years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year D Enclosed is $50 for one semester Name ---------------------------­
Address City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
HOROSCOPE  EUGENIA LAST  
CELEBRITIES BORN ON  Unreliable individuals may try to  
THIS DAY: Sally Field, Maria Shriver, Mike Nichols, Ethan Hawke, Thandie Newton, Arturo  borrow money today. Offer advice, but not financial assis­tance. You're better off banking  
Sandoval  your money. 0000  
Happy Birthday: You have numerous opportunities this year to reach the goals you have set. You'll be surprised at the help  LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct 22): You will be in a do-gooder mood. Show concern and give helpful advice, but remember that not  
offered by those watching from  everyone will appreciate your  
the sidelines. Honor, dignity and integrity will put you one step closer to your dreams. Your num­bers: 18, 23, 29, 34, 36, 41  kindness. You will be taken advantage of if you're too gener­ous. 00 SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):  
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your domestic scene may suffer if you demand your own way. Be willing to listen to loved ones. The requests that mean the most won't be that hard to meet. 00 TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't trust all your colleagues. Someone may be trying to under­mine you. Be reticent about your goals to avoid opposition. You'll experience unavoidable delays and problems while traveling. Take public transit if possible.0000  .  You can't evade the issues with relatives or friends any longer. End your frustration. If you dis­cuss the situation, you will fix it before it escalates into an irre­versible problem. 000 SAGITrARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You have to take better care of yourself. Don't neglect minor health problems in the hopes that they'll go away. Take advantage of a great moneymakmg oppor­tunity, but do the research first. 000 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19):  
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Be wary of joint investments, especially those involving family members. Don't lend or borrow  Friends and family will read you better than you th.ink. Being dif£i ­cult to get along with will only make matters worse. You could  
money or possessions today. Problems with skin, bones or teeth should not be left unattend­ probably use some time to your­self. 00 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):  
ed. 000  Chill out and eat properly. Stress  
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Look at your options carefully, and you'll pick a winner. Don't take too long to decide on a good financial investment. 000  may cause minor stomach prob­lems. Difficulties will develop with large organizations or insti­tutions. Expect delays. 000 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20):  
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): The most rewarding work is at home. Clean up and enjoy your sur­roundings. You need to rest and regain strength. 000 VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22):  Turn your attention to pleasura­ble hobbies and creative endeav­ors. Teaching children some of the unique talents you've devel­oped will do you a world of good.00000  

Birthday Baby: You are one detennined character. You are passion­ate about your life and your surroundings. You will always find a way to follow your dreams. Your unique style will attract attention. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
© 2001 Uruversal Press Syndicate 

The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Campus Sports OTHE National Sports
BSERVER 

. NFL, p. 14
. 
Men's Basketball, p. 16 

. SMC Basketball, fl. 18 
. NCAA Football, p. 14 
. 
Fox Sports p. 21 . Major League Baseball, p. 15


PORTS 
Tuesday, November 27, 2001 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish return home in style 
. Batteast leads 
. Team falls to romp over Army Arizona, Colorado with 18 points State over break 
By NOAH AMSTADTER By KATIE McVOY 
Sports Editor Associate Spores Editor 
Coming off two consecutive loss­The Irish women's basketball es for the first time since 1997. the team had a learning experience schedule makers delivered the No. over Thanksgiving break. The 23 Irish women's basketball team young team took its first road just what the doctor ordered trip of the 2001-2002 season Monday night -a home game and came home 0-2 on the road, against Army. with some valuable lessons. 
And Notre Dame (2-2) didn't let "There was some improve­the opportunity to feast on a vul­ment and we did some goodnerable opponent pass by, send­things," head coach Murt'et ing the Black Knights (1-4) home McGraw said. "So it's been a in dominating fashion, taking the learning experience, and I think 
game 89-57. that's good, if we will improve"I think we can celebrate now," and get better." Irish head coach Muffet McGraw 
A 72-70 loss to Arizona on 

said after her team's third game Saturday taught the Irish that in six days. "We're not thinking although one play can end hopes 
that we're not going to lose anoth­of a victory, there isn't one thing er game for the rest of the year, that causes a defeat. hut now that we're experiencing In the final seconds of the great moments that are translat­game, freshman post-playering into great games, I think we're Jackie Batteast inbounded the 
building our confidence." ball with the hopes of getting it Much of that confidence came to junior Alicia Ratay and scor­-ing a basket that would break
from the solid play of freshman Jacqueline Batteast. The 6-foot-1 the 70-70 tie. South Bend native led the Irish "Tie game, we have the ball, with 18 points, 12 rebounds and we're going to win," McGraw four blocked shots in 28 minutes. said. "Alicia's going to make a 
"I thought she came out and shot because she's playing really 
played really well," McGraw said. well; they can't guard her. We're "We're really expecting a lot from going to win. It's just a matter of her and I think that she did every­what play we're going to run, thing we wanted her to tonight." RICO CASARES/The Observer and then we turned it over." 
Irish forward Jacqueline Batteast looks to pass the ball during Monday night's Notre Dame win see ARMY/page 19 over Navy. Batteast led the Irish with 18 points, 12 rebounds and four blocked shots. see BREAK/page 19 
ND WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Irish move to No. 13 
. Team swims to highest rank in history 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
Spores Writer 
Gathering his swim­mers together for a nor­mal pre-competition pep talk at the Minnesota Invitational, Irish head coach Bailey Weathers had some not­so-normal news to deliver his swimmers. 
The team, at the halfway point of its dual meet season, had been elevated to 13th in dual meet rankings -the highest any women's Irish swimming and div­ing team had ever been 

ranked. 
It was exactly the motivation the team needed to start the weekend. 
"It definitely got peo­ple excited to swim," said co-captain Tara Riggs. "It makes us feel like we're right on track." 
The team easily cruised to a more than 300-point victory against the University of Wisconsin, who defeat­ed the Irish at last year's NCAA Championships. The Irish also knocked off the host team, University of Minnesota, to claim their first-ever victory at the multi­team competition. 
The win was just the 
latest in a series of early-season victories for the Irish swimmers, who are undefeated in dual meet competition and for the first time, ranked among the best in the nation. A team that has won the Big East Championships six times, the 2001-02 sea­son has the team look­ing to compete on the national level, rather than just the conference championships. 
"I think this is the best team we've ever had," said Weathers. "We've got unusually good depth in the pro­gram. [The rankings] are important to the girls in terms of getting 
see SWIMMING/page 20 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Irish fall to Terps in first round of NCAAs 
By BRYAN KRONK 
Sports Writer 
COLLEGE PARK, Md. 

Cinderella's glass slipper was shattered on Friday night, as the Maryland Terrapins defeated the Irish men's soccer team 1-0 in a heartbreaker in the first round of the 2001 NCAA Men's College Cup. 
"For those who don't know what it's all about, that was a really good game tonight," head coach Bobby Clark said after the game. "That's what the NCAA championships are all about." 
The lone goal of the game came with just 1:41 left in the second half, when Terrapin Ellis Welker managed to penetrate the Irish defense and get the ball to midfield­er Scott Buete. Buete controlled 
the pass and blasted a shot from five yards away that found its way past Irish goalie Chris Sawyer and went into the top right corner of the net. 
"I saw [the ball] come out, and Ellis hit it back in. It looked like the defense got stunned and they all got caught watching," Buete said. "Luckily it just got through, so I just put my head down and chugged it 
in. n 

The goal broke the momentum that the Irish seemed to be carrying into overtime. Maryland dominated the offensive side of the game for much of the first half, but was unable to convert. 
The lone substantial offensive threat for the Irish in the first half came with 7:25 left, as substitute 
see SOCCER/page 22 

.... 
. Men's Basketball vs. Army, Wednesday, 7:30 p.m. 
OBSERVER

. SMC Basketball vs. Marian College , Friday, 8p.m.
SPORTS 
on Ii n e edition 

. Volleyball vs. Michigan State, Friday, 5p.m.AT AGLANCE . Football at Purdue, Saturday, 4:30 p.m. ., http://www.nd.edu/~observer 




