

Best of the Best 
Cupid in the Bend 
Ruth Riley and Troy Murphy have been 

Wednesday
Believe it or not there are creative ways to 
nominated for the Naismith awards along with 
spend your Valentine's Day at Notre Dame­
I 5 other male andfemale national finalists. 
with or without a significant other 
FEBRUARY 14, 
Sports . page 24 
Scene . page 14-15 
2001 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
, VOL XXXIV NO. 89 , HTTP://OBSERVER.N D.EDU 


Busted ... now what? 
Consequences for parietal violations vary across campus 


============·=-=-=-=--=--============================================================================================= Commitment to service programs highlights run-off debate 
By FINN PRESSLY 
Senior Staff Writer 
vVith the race fer student body president 
down to just two tickets, last night's candi­
date forum focused mainly on a close exami­
nation of each ticket's platform goals. 
Ryan Becker and Nikki McCord faced 
opponents Brooke Norton and Brian 
Moscona in a two-hour debate with ques­
tions coming from a panel of guests, audi­
ence members and the candidates. 
The debate came just one day after an 
election that saw service-oriented candidates 
Demetra Smith and Yogeld Andre come 
within 3 percent of passing Becker and 
McCord for the second runoff position. 
Smith/Andre received 20 percent while 
Becker/McCord garnered 23. 
Norton/Moscona gained 42 percent of the 
primary votes. 
With those results in mind, many of the 
questions centered on each ticket's commit­
ment to service. 
"We want to serve students while allowing 
students to serve others," said Norton. "This 
election has shown that students are inter­
ested in social issues." 
Both tickets expressed strong interest in 
Smith and Andre's Dinner with Seven 
see DEBATE/page 4 

AMANDA HUGHES/The Observer 
Brian Becker (right) and Nikki McCord (center) debate with Brooke Norton and Brian Moscona Tuesday night in the Hesburgh Library. 
By MARJBEL MOREY 
Assistant News Editor 
Many prospective students are awed by the crazed football fans. the Golden Dome or the sense of community that is sensed throughout campus, especially within res­idence halls. There might not be fraterni­ties or sororities at Notre Dame, but the dorms are pretty close to that -except that Valentine's Day ends at midnight here. 
According to DuLac, "visiting hours for guests of the opposite sex are not to begin before 10 a.m. on any day and are not to extend beyond 2 a.m." What might have seemed as a small detail during spring visitation affects the lives of every 5tudent on campus. 
"Yes. parietals have a larger effect on social life. I would have picked another school if I would have seen the effect it has on the social life," said Michelle Merlo, sophomore math and business major. 
Michelle's life at Notre Dame took a turn last semester when the fire alarm went off in 
Carroll at 
7:30 am while she was in her boyfriend's room. Their parietals case was taken directly to Residence Life. 
"For the most part, less than an hour is up to their [rec­tors'] discre­tion. More than an hour they come to us," said 
·Jeffrey KATY HALU The Observer Shoup, direc­
tor of residence life. "The longer the vio­lation, the more intentional it becomes," 
For the most part, 10-15 minute viola­tions end with a warning while 30 minute violations or more go directly to ResLlfe, said Sister Adrienne Piennette, rector of Welsh Family Hall. 
Both Michelle and her boyfriend were not allowed to return to their dorm for the remainder of the fall semester in response to ResLife's decision. She was 
forced to live off cam­prong approach of safety, 
"They leave early when 
security and privacy, said pus and may not enter 
they think everyone is 
her former residence, Shoup. Howard Hall, without asleep. Six o'clock might "I know there's the 
issue of privacy and this
permission. be early for them, but not 
school has to keep this"I know I need to 
for the rector. ,. 

tradition as a big
face the conse­
Catholic school in keep­quences. It was hard ing its dignity and highlast fall, with the bliz­Jeffrey Shoup standard of name," said
zard and having to director of residence life 
live off campus," said Merlo. 
Most people who break parietals make the same mistakes. 
"They leave early when they think everyone is asleep. Six o'clock might be early for them, but not for the rector," said Shoup. "A couple of times a year, roommates turn parietal cases in. Ninety­nine percent of the time a hall staff hears them talking in the room." 
Although Michelle's case did not involve alcohol, Shoup said most cases involve intoxicated friends. 
After a party, "some students might be too drunk to make a decent decision and drunk enough that they don't want to go back to their dorm-hall monitor,'' said Shoup. "When they're intoxicated, they're talking louder than they thought they were." 
Some students, however, say they enjoy parietals and others disagree so strongly that they move off campus, said Shoup. 
"Parietals quiet the dorm down for rest and study," said Piennette. The administration sees parietals as a three­
Merlo. However, she 
does not understand, however, why her punishment continues past Residence Life. 
The punishment finalized by ResLife included off-campus housing for the remainder of the fall semester and resi­dence in a different dorm during the spring semester. She now lives in Walsh Hall. In May, her punishment from ResLife will be over, but she is still banned from Howard. 
Since Merlo missed her friends, she tried talking to Howard's rector, Sister Anne Dougherty, to move back next fall. 
see PARJETALS/page 4 page 2 

The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, February 14, 2001 
INSIDE COLUMN 


It's Valentine's 
Day 

I am tired of the cookies, the chocolate covered strawberries ala Martha Stewart, and the dozens upon dozens of roses. It does not seem romantic at all. The holiday has become a race to deter­mine who gives the 'biggest and most expensive gift. It is no longer about love but on how we can buy. 
According to the History Channel, which means I did not watch it but had some­one do it for me, St. Valentine was a dude who defied Emperor Claudius decree that no man could marry because it made him a bad soldier. St. Valentine would marry young couples in private. He may have been killed attempting to free Christians from the pris­ons where they were often tortured. Also, while he was in jail he fell in love with a young girl, might have been the jailer's daughter, and wrote her love letters that were addressed "From Your Valentine." 
The holiday was meant to remember St. Valentine. It was definitely not meant to shower each other with decorated pieces of paper and dead flowers. St. Valentine acted out oflove, not to empty his wallet on meaningless gifts oflittle or no sentimental value. 
Yet every year, since Kindergarten, I was told to bring Valentine cards to school. The last Valentine's card I gave out was seven years ago to a girl that I liked. I was promptly rejected afterward. 
It was not the rejection that made me this way. It was the constant reminder that on this one day, I am supposed to profess my love. But instead of finding love, I become aware of pain and of remorse the day after. 
How many of us know people who broke off their relationship on Valentine's? I know a few who would rather forget about this day. Poor souls, they get reminded about this dreadful day everywhere they look. 
The cost is another thing. This is a very expen­sive holiday. Between buying chocolates, roses (at a huge markup), and then dinner later that night. I am sure you can understand that some men would prefer to spend their money on some­thing more useful or something that will really impress their girlfriend. 
Here is an example: There is this guy, "Joe", he has a girlfriend, "Anne". but miles and miles of ocean separate both. Anne is in the U.S. and Joe is in Europe. Earlier this year, Anne, in Europe on business, surprised Joe by flying to see him on his birthday without him knowing. 
Sounds nice. huh? This is not the end of the story. Joe. wanting revenge, decided to do the same to Anne. Without anyone knowing. not even his closest friends, he flew for 18 hours across the Atlantic. He surprised Anne outside her door and both embraced. The surprise was so strong that she was in tears. He spent his money to surprise her. That is romantic. 
Guys, ifyou want to make your girl feel special on this day make something for her. Do some­thing for her that is of good character and always to make her feel special. Cook for her, try it, it is not so hard. Make her a card. Grow a plant for her. Whatever the gift, it will be better than store-bought cards and teddy bears. It does not take long to make and she will love you more for it. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Jose Cuellar 
Graphics Editor 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Maribel Morey Lauren Kelly Nate Phillips Graphics Myra McGriff 
Kacy Hall Sports 
Production Katie McVoy Rachel Protzman Viewpoint Lab Tech Lauren Beck · Peter Richardson 

The Obmvcr (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday c,xccpt during cnm and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Aaociac«I Press. All reproduction rights arc rcscrv«I. 

THIS WEEK IN SOUTH BEND 
Wednesday  Thursday  
. Meeting: Rotary Club of  . Event: Gridiron Legends  
South Bend, Century  Luncheon Series, College  
Center, 12 p.m.  Football Hall of Fame,  
. Theater: "Can a Woman  11:30 a.m.  
Make a Man Lose His  . Fundraising: St. Joseph  
Mind?," Morris Performing  Tree Sales Program. the  
Arts Center. 8 p.m.  Soil and Conservation  
Destrict Office, all day  

Friday 

. 
Event: Junior Parents' Weekend 

. 
Movie: "The Eyes of Tammy Faye," Snite Museum of Art, 7:30 p.m. 


Saturday 

. 
Concert: South Bend Symphony: "The Sounds of New Orleans,'' Morris Performing Arts Center, 8 p.m. 

. 
Movie: "The 6th Day," DeBartolo 101, 8 p.m. 



OUTSIDE THE DOME Compiled from ll-Wire reports 
Drug incidents skyrocket at U. Washington 
SEATTLE 

Arrests, citations and warnings for illegal drugs have increased by almost 900 percent since 1996 in the University of Washington resi­dence halls. 
Campus-wide, the combination of illegal drug arrests, citations and warnings has increased from 35 in 1996 to 200 in 2000. In the resi­dence halls alone, the number has increased from five to 49 in the same five years. 
Police records indicate most of the incidents involved marijuana rather than harder drugs. such as cocaine or LSD. 
Despite the consistent increase in drug incidents, Sgt. David Girtz said illegal drugs do not overly plague the UW. He attributes most of the 
"/ don ·t believe UW has any larger problem with illegal drugs than other universities .•• 
Sgt. David Glrtz police officer 
incidents to non-students. 
"We feel that approximately 80 percent of the incidents involve non-students. We are an urban campus and a lot of people from the surrounding area come onto campus. I don't believe UW has any 
UNIVERSITY OF CINCINNATI 
Biochemist makes AIDS discovery 
CINCINNATI 
Discovering a protein found within the AIDS infec­tion process does not have a concrete structure came as a surprise to a University of Cincinnati bio­chemist last month. "The region of this protein appears to be structurally flexible. That has astounded a lot of people." said Pearl Tsang, an assistant professor of chemistry for 10 years at UC. According to Tsang, there are two proteins which combine to make the virus. By understanding the binding process. AIDS researchers could stop the interaction, thus block infection. However, one pro­tein does not always bind the same way. The second protein changes its structure to fit many different proteins. The body of the second protein is not a concrete structure, which makes the infection process hard to pinpoint. These findings are crucial to the development of vaccines for AIDS. "We have to look elsewhere," said Tsang. "You can't design something to attack this." 
LOCAL WEATHER 

larger problem with illegal drugs than other universities in similar circumstances," said Girtz. 
The UWPD has officers monitor the residence halls. Girtz found that some officers were not spending as much time in the halls as she felt was necessary. 
"I have strongly encouraged offi­cers assigned to the residence halls to spend time in the halls. I want the dorm officers to know what is going on inside the dorms," said Girtz. 
Three or four years ago there was a policy change that may have con­tributed to the increased numbers. Resident advisors on each floor were instructed to call the police if they suspected drug use in the resi­dence halls. 
NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY 
McCain plugs finance reform plan 
EVANSTON.Ill. 
Continuing their six-year fight to pass bipartisan cam­paign finance reform legislation, Sens. John McCain and Russ Feingold brought their quest to Northwestern University on Monday, trying to drum up support from students and community members. About 375 people packed in for a question-and-answer session about the proposed McCain-Feingold bill. The bill is set to be heard before the Senate at the end of March. The bill would ban the soft money that corporations. special interest groups and wealthy individuals give political parties to finance campaigns. "We need to take govern­ment out of the hands of special interests and give it back to the people of this country," McCain said. "It's very difficult trying to do the Lord's work in the city of Satan, and we need your help." In past years, the bill has died on the Senate floor in a filibuster, which pro­\ longs debate in an attempt to kill the legislation. But McCain said he is confident he has the required 60 Senate votes to block a filibuster this year. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeatherm forecast for noon, Wednesday, Feb. 14. 

e e· 

0 2001 AccuW..ther, Inc:. COLD WARM STATIONARY 

High Low Showera Rain T•¦tomw Flurrie¦ S.-loe Sunny PL Cloudy Cloudy 
Atlanta  71  57  Las Vegas  52  40  Portland  47  31  
Baltimore  52  42  Me"'4)his  55  53  Sacramento  61  38  
Boston  40  30  Milwaukee  37  30  St. Louis  45  40  
Chicago  42  32  New York  47  37  Tampa  82  65  
Houston  n  68  Philadelphia  49  38  Wash DC  52  43  

Wednesday, February 14, 200 l The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
NSA resigns from Board of Trustees 
By MAUREEN SMITHE Assistant News Editor 
Serving the Notre Dame com­munity has long been Condoleezza Rice's focus. Now the '75 grad will shift her focus away from the Golden Dome and look towards the Capitol's dome. She has stepped down from Notre Dame's Board of Trustees sor could lose a lot of influence relative to staffers in the previous administration as Cheney aims to take an active role. He is just as beaurocratically savvy but with lots more political experience [than Rice]." 
With the Bush administration still settling into the White House, Lindley said that potential in­fighting by staffers and political players could reduce Rice's 

due to her new "She's one ofthe more role. However, role as the he also pointed 
prominent graduates in 

national secu­out that Bush rity advisor to our history. " made his deci­President sion based on Bush. a long and pos­
Daniel Lindley

"It's obvious itive history
government professor

that she is an with Rice. 
"President Bush has surrounded himself with smart and powerful people. [Rice] has been friends with Bush for a while and he feels comfort­able with her," Lindley said. 
Since 1981, Rice has also been a member of Stanford University's political science fac­ulty, serving as the univer~ity's provost from 1993-99. 
Students at both schools can look to her as a positive example, Brown said. 
"Dr. Rice is a delightful person and an incredibly bright individ­ual. She has made several contri­butions to this country and will continue to do so. She is someone students can look to as a role model." Brown said. 
She previously served from 1989-91 in the administration of Bush's father as director and senior director ofSoviet and East European affairs in the National Security Council. Rice received an honorary doctorate of law from Notre Dame and delivered the 1995 commencement address. 

LToin t~.l1e Traclit~.ior.1 
Graduate to serve as clerk in D.C. 
By JARED JODREY 
News Writer 
Brian Fitzpatrick, a graduate of Notre Dame and Harvard Law School. has been elected to serve as clerk in the United States Supreme Court for Associate Justice Antonin Scalia. Most justices of the Court have four clerks who each serve a one-year term. The duties of the clerk include helping justices pre­
two-highest grade-point-averages in his class during his second year. 
"Brian was the kind of student who makes it such a privilege to teach at Harvard Law School," said law professor Richard Fallon .. "He is extremely smart, thoughtful, decent and chal­lenging. He will make an excellent Supreme Court clerk." 
Professor Elena Kagan, who teaches adminis­
pare for argumentc;, research '7t was a rare pleasureissues and assist in drafting 
to teach-and learn from 
the official justice's opinions. 
"I always had public policy -Brian Fitzpatrick. He passions," Fitzpatrick said combines a profoundabout his interest in law. "I 
intellect with a genuine
was interested in trying something that had a broad passion for the law. •• impact." 
Originally from 
Elena Kagan

Albuquerque, N. M., 
Harvard law professor

Fitzpatrick graduated from 
excellent example," said government pro­fessor Daniel Lindley. "'She's one of the more prominent graduates in our history." 
Dennis Brown, associate direc­tor of Notre Dame public rela­tions, said she has a strong com­mitment to both University and national politics. 
"[Rice] has been a prominent individual both in government and higher education for the past 15 years. We've always been proud of her accomplishments and also happy that she's been willing to serve the University," Brown said. 
As national security advisor, Rice's duties have yet to be clear­ly defined. Lindley cited several theories floating around political journals regarding the promi­nence of the National Security Council [NSCJ during the Bush administration. 
"The NSC staff appears to be 
shrinking as compared to the 
Clinton administration," Lindley 
said. "The national security advi­

c:<)I11e 


Notre Dame in 1997, with a degree in Chemical Engineering. After going through the graduate application process, Fitzpatrick finally decided upon a career in law. 
Fitzpatrick graduated from Harvard Law School in 2000, having been awarded the presti­gious Fay Diploma for achieving the highest grade-point-average in his class. In 1999, he was awarded the Sears Prize for achieving one of the 
Kournikova virus hits Notre Dame computer system hard 
. Saint Mary's unaffected by email virus 
Observer Staff Report 
The computer virus that overwhelmed Europe and North America Monday also had an impact on the Notre 
trative law at Harvard. was also impressed with Fitzpatrick's abilities. 
"It was rare pleasure to teach -and learn from -Brian Fitzpatrick. He combines a pro­found intellect with a genuine passion for the law," she said. 
Fitzpatrick credits much of his success in Law School to his years at Notre Dame, especially his study in Chemical Engineering. 
"I am very grateful to Notre Dame for helping me and preparing me for both law 

school and this opportunity," Fitzpatrick said. 
Fitzpatrick will be starting his new position in July. The move to Washington D.C. is one he is looking forward to, having spent two summers while in Law School working there. 
"I like the D.C. area and am looking forward to it," said Fitzpatrick. who hopes work to in a Washington law firm after his term as clerk. 
Dame campus. An email that appeared to contain a picture of tennis star Anna Kournikova was instead a virus that spreads by sending itself to everyone in the address books of Microsoft Outlook email users. 
"It hit pretty hard," said Greg Matz, consultant analyst for Notre Dame's Office of Information Technologies. 
The rapidly spreading virus slowed the networks, but Notre Dame's email server did not crash as it did at many companies across the nation. The virus doesn't damage computers, but it causes problems because of the large volume of email that is generated as Microsoft Outlook spreads the virus. Other email programs do not automatically spread the virus. 
Users who had updated 
virus scan software since 
October did not experience 
problems. Notre Dame holds a 
site license for McAffe 
antivirus software. Every 
Wednesday, McAffe releases an updated version of the software. Matz recommends updating at least once a month. 
"Antivirus software works best as an inoculation," said Matz. "Ifs not like an antibi­otic that you take after you're infected." 
Saint Mary's was not trou­bled by the Kournikova virus. 
"I don't know of anyone's machine who's actually gotten infected from it," said Sally Goldberg, Saint Mary's net­work and systems administra­tor. 
According to Goldberg, Saint Mary's has installed a mail filter that will prevent the virus from getting on campus. All incoming and outgoing Saint Mary's email goes through a program called send mail. The pro­gram is configured to filter out specific subject lines, including that of the Kournikova virus. 
"It shouldn't be able to get 
on campus any more," said 
Goldberg. 




page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 14, 2001 
CUNTCI\ l'OH
onmental Science& Technology 
UIUI/Ufity ofNDtre, ()aMU, 


Parietals 
continued from page 1 
"[Dougherty] understands I want to live with my friends, but she does not think I respect the authority in Howard," Merlo said. 
As decided by ResLife, Merlo cannot enter Howard this year. According to Merlo, however, she cannot move back into the dorm next year nor can she visit without an appointment. 
"What's ruining my experi­ence is not being able to go back to my dorm and that has noth­ing to do with the University, but rather the rector," said Merlo. 
Dougherty would not comment without speaking to Bill Kirk, assistant vice-presi­I just stick to thedent for res­
"/ would be naive to think 
book. I've beenidence life. 

they don't [break here for 10

Parietals violations parietals]. I'm not out years," Beatty 
said.

are an issue 
there to catch them. ·• 
Although

for every 
Piennette under­dorm. 

Sister Adrienne Plennette stands that there

"I would must be students be na'ive to Welsh Family rector 
think they don't [break parietals]. I'm not out to catch them. It's a policy of the University, and I'm hired to enforce the rules of the University," said Piennette. 
Piennette said she had a situa• tion and was hesitant to talk. 
'Tm trying to get into Walsh and I don't want to jeopardize that," she said. 
Merlo moved out in the Fall, but now Doyle spends most of her time with Merlo in Walsh. 
"Any time you lose· a member of the community it hurts," Doyle said. 
Before that morning in Carroll, Merlo lived in a quad on the fourth floor of Howard. Now she lives in a quint in Walsh with two other girls. 
"I feel like our relationships [with friends] haven't changed, but something was taken away," Merlo said. 
Each dorm has discretion on parietal issues. Although Sister Kathleen Beatty, rector of Badin Hall, has not encountered a case in her dorm where a resident is uprooted from campus. 
''I'm tired of it, 
who break pari• 
etals in Welsh Family, she has not seen a viola• tion of more than 20 minutes. 
University administrators are aware that there are repeatedly occurring parietal violations that they never hear about. 
"In any given night there are hundreds of parietal violations, but it's like looking at the speed limit -it's a good guideline. A majority of students still follow it and are respectful of it. And for the overall good of the commu­nity, parietals are good guide­lines," Shoup said. 
Some however. feel parietal punishments cause a negative effect on the community. 
"Notre Dame's big thing is about community. [Merlo] was taken away from that for a semester -extending the pun• ishment is really extreme now," said Emilie Robb, Merlo's friend and sophomore Howard resi• dent. 
"Freshman year I loved this school and now I just think that rectors have too much control. There's no uniformity across the board, and it takes away from campus life," said Merlo. "It took away from my sophomore year." 

Debate 
continued from page J 
Strangers, an event that is currently being tested as a pilot . program by Multicultural Student Programs and Services. 
Norton/Moscona voiced commitment to introducing service-based scholarships, as well as Pacem in Terris, a program 
designed to bring ty," she
"The problem is that we
students from said but 
war-torn coun­don't have enough did not tries to Notre [ social] space on t h i n k 
Dame for their .. the plan
campus.
education. was fea­
Becker, mean­sible. while, stated his Brooke Norton S h e ticket's plan to a n d
presidential candidate 
. apply things learned in the classroom to the community through increased experien­tial learning projects. This type of program would be ideal for Notre Dame, he said, based on students' "ser­vice orientation" and "acade­mic drive." Among the other issues dis­cussed was the Norton/Moscona proposal for hosting a hip-hop conference at Notre Dame -a plan that they admit has met with criti­
cism. 
According to Moscona, he and Norton borrowed the idea from a successful event at Harvard, though they plan to expand the conference as an academic forum for dis­cussions of race and diversity 
on campus. McCord, however, was not as enthusiastic. 
"I'd love to see someone call Nelly on the phone and tell him we want him to come to Notre Dame to speak about 
diversi­
Becker 

a r e addressing diversity issues by using existing programs, rather than creating new ones. 
"What we need to do is work together with the pro• grams we have in place," said McCord. 
In terms of programming and scheduling events, Becker and McCord also pledged to create a board devoted solely to planning and promoting more non­
alcoholic events. 
Norton and Moscona, mean­while, proposed adding more restaurant facilities to the Alumni-Senior Club to make it a place for students of all ages, while still serving alco­hol to those of legal age. 
"The problem is that we don't have enough [social] space on campus," Norto,n said. 
They also discussed an expansion of Founder's Day events, as well as a week to commemorate the 30th anniversary of co-education at Notre Dame. 
Both tickets stressed the importance of getting stu­dents involved in student gov­ernment and increasing the communication between their offices and student body. 
Moscona suggested using emails to keep students informed, while McCord pro­posed sitting in on hall coun­cil meetings around campus to gather student input. 
Becker and McCord high­lighted the need for getting more students involved in stu­dent government and defend­ed themselves against accusa­tions of increasing student government bureaucracy from Norton/Moscona. 
"It's not a bureaucracy if you get students who have never participated before," Becker said. 


SEMINAR PRESENTATION: 
Exploring the effectiveness of environmental Impact assessment 
Speaker: Date: Time: Location:  Dr. Angus Neil Morrison-Saunders Guest Lecturer from Murdoch Univ,ersity WESTERN AUSTRALIA Wednesday,February14,2001 4:00 p.m. DeBartolo Hall, Room 217  
ABSTRACT  

Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) is a major tool promoted and used internationally for the protection and management of the environment. It was adopted in each ofthe conventions arising from the Rio Earth Summit in 1992. But how does the process operate in practice? Does EIA protect the environment? Is EIA based on good science? How do socio-economic and political factors affect the process? This seminar will present the major findings of research into the utility and effectiveness ofenvironmental impact assessment conducted by Dr. Angus Morrison-Saunders over the last ten years. 
Dr. Angus Morrison-Saunders is a Lecturer in Environmental Assessment. Division ofScience and Engineering at Murdoch University, Western Australia. He completed a Ph.D. in EIA at Murdoch University in 1997. From 1995-1999 he was a lecturer in the Environmental Studies Program at the University ofNotre Dame-Australia. He was coordinator ofEnvironmental Studies during 1998/99 and Academic Coordinator ofthe Notre Dame Study Abroad Program in 1999. Before commencing his Ph.D. in 1992, he worked in various positions including Environmental Office with local government, environmental consultant (which predominantly involved preparation ofEIA documents) and Graduate Research Assistant at Murdoch University. 
tion where a student had repeated parietal violations. ResLife decided to move her off campus, but she recommended otherwise. The student was moved to another dorm. 
When asked if she would let the student move back in, Piennette said, .., think I would because I think she learned from it. I think we learn from our mistakes. If she learned from her mistakes, then I would be willing to talk to the individ­ual, but it's particular to the individual." 
Shoup stresses that rectors have complete control whether students move hall to hall because rectors have to sign pull-in forms. When a student is forced out of his or her dorm, the rector decides whether to let him or her back in. 
Merlo's best friend and former 
roommate, Maureen Doyle, is 
aware of each rector's discre­

ATION 
Wednesday, February 14, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
China prosecutes website owner: 
Seeking to stamp its authority on cyberspace, China put the organizer of a Web site on trial Tuesday for publishing articles about democ­racy, the banned Falun Gong spiritual sect and other materials deemed subversive by prosecutors. Huang Qi is the first Chinese Webmaster known to have been prosecuted for publishing political materials. 
11 killed in Kashmir: Separatist mili­tants attacked three army patrols in the dis­puted territory of Kashmir on Tuesday, killing two soldiers and injuring three others. Nine separatists died, the Indian military said. The three patrols were operating in Poonch dis­trict, about 130 miles northwest of Jammu, Kashmir's winter capital, following the mas­sacre of 13 villagers in the area last week. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
New Jersey man confesses to machete killing: A man suspected of killing two people with a machete during a four-state crime spree has. confessed to one of the slayings, according to court documents released Tuesday. "I took his head off," Eric Fant allegedly told a New Jersey State Police investigator about slaying of a Pennsylvania gas station attendant over the weekend. Fant, 37, was ordered held in lieu of $250,000 bail on New Jersey charges that include being a fugi­tive from justice and weapons possession. 
Lt. Governor uses racial slur: 
California Lt. Gov. Cruz Bustamante used a racial slur during a Black History Month speech in what he called an embarrassing slip of the tongue. Bustamante, a Hispanic Democrat who has focused on improving race relations. said he meant to use the word "Negro" but slipped and said another n-word during his speech about the black union movement. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Man steals wedding dress: James Ray's fiancee fell in love with an Oleg Cassini wedding dress, but the $1,000 price tag was too much. Ray got her the dress anyway -at gun­point, according to police. "They went to the store, his fiancee had tried the dress on and fell in love with it and said she'd love to have it. Then they left," Hobart police Lt. Leo Finnerty said. When Ray went back on Thursday, he told his girlfriend he would see if he could talk the price down and went in alone. When a store employee caught him attempting to shoplift the dress, he pulled a gun and fled, police said. 
Market Watch 2/1 3 

Dow 
10903.32 -43.45

]ONES 
-t 
Composite
Same: 
Volume:
216 ­
NIA 

Nasdaq: 2427.72 -61.94 
S&P 500: 1318.66 -11.65 TOPSVOLUM~LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURilY  %CHANGE  $GAIN  PRICE  
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  -3.59  -1.06  28.50  
NASDAQ 100 SHAR (QQQ)  -3.12  -1.78  55.30  
JDS UNIPHASE (JOSU)  -5.23  -2.13  38.50  
ORACLE CORP (ORCL)  .1,91  -.44  22.56  
LUCENT TECH INC (LU)  .8.51  -1.26  13.5 .  

EL SALVADOR 


Associated Press 

EL SALVADOR 
A powerful earthquake shook El Salvador Tuesday, toppling hun• dreds of buildings-and killing at least 127 people in a country still mourning more than 800 who died in an even stronger quake exactly one month ago. 
The quake flattened much of the heart of San Vicente, 35 miles east of San Salvador, and dam­aged most of the homes and buildings in four sur­rounding towns. 
At least 127 people were killed and more than 1,200 were injured, said Salvadoran Red Cross spokesman Carlos Lopez. He said there were numer­ous reports of landslides that could add to the death toll. 
The earthquake struck at 8:25 a.m. and was cen­tered halfway between San Vicente and San Salvador. The U.S. Geological Survey measured its magnitude at 6.6, a strong quake but not as devastating as the 7.6 magnitude temblor that killed at least 844 people last month. 
"It is true that this is another blow for El Salvador, but I call for tranquility. We have to be calm," President Francisco Flores told The Associated Press during a helicopter tour to assess the damage. 
"There are dead here,. and very many people have lost their houses," the president said during a stop in San Vicente. He said the brunt of the dam­age was in a corridor between Ilopango, just east of San Salvador, and San Vicente. 
Flores said he was told the quake damaged or destroyed hundreds of houses in the provinces of San Vicente, La Paz and Cuscatlan. Lopez said at least 71 people were killed in Cuscatlan alone. 
At least 12 adults and 
three children were killed in San Vicente, the region-· al army commander Col. Juan Armando Reyes, told Flores. He said half its houses were damaged, along with 90 percent of the houses in the nearby towns of San Cayetano, Guadalupe, Verapaz and Texistepeque. 
Landslides blocked sev­eral highways that were still being restored after the Jan. 13 quake, includ­ing the Panamerican Highway to Guatemala. Telephone service was patchy to much of the country. and San Salvador's airport also was briefly closed. 

Helicopter collision claims lives 
A»ociated Press 
HONOLULU 

Two Army Black Hawk heli­copters crashed in a remote area during a nighttime exercise, killing six soldiers on one of the aircraft and injuring 11 others. 
The aircraft "somehow came in contact" with each other, but it was still unclear whether they collided, Navy Rear Adm. Craig Quigley said Tuesday in a briefing at the Pentagon. 
The pilots of both aircraft were wearing night vision goggles. he 
said. Light rain was falling at the time. 
The helicopters, carrying a total of 17 people. crashed about 200 yards apart, said Capt. Stephen Johnson, whose fire company came from the nearby Sunset Beach sta­tion. 
Quigley said he had received con­flicting reports and was not certain how the two Black Hawks touched each other. He said it appeared they were not both in the air at the time. but did not elaborate. 
He said all six dead were aboard one helicopter. 
The two UH60 helicopters went down late Monday while participat­ing in an exercise over Kahuku on the island of Oahu, said Maj. Nancy Makowski, a spokeswoman for the 25th Infantry Division based at Schofield Barracks. 
"I heard a big thud," said Perry Dane, who lives on Kamehameha Highway about a mile from the crash site. "It sounded like thunder. It shook, too, like a big rattle." 
The accident came just three days after a Navy submarine crashed into a Japanese fishing trawler off the coast of Oahu. 
page6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 14, 200 I 
Mendoza's $35 million donation ranks nationally 
Special to the Observer 
A $35-million gift to the University of Notre Dame from Thomas and Kathy Mendoza has been ranked the 24th largest in the nation last year, according to the annual Slate 60 survey compiled by 
the online magazine Slate and the Chronicle of Philanthropy. 
Bill and Melinda Gates, with a donation of $5 billion to their foundation, topped the survey, which ranks the 60 leading donors 


in America. The survey Mendoza 
began in 1996 at the suggestion of broad­casting entrepreneur Ted Turner. who 
hoped the publication of a prestigious list of donors would provide an incentive to giving. 
Announced March 21, the Mendozas' gift is the largest single donation in Notre Dame's history and is in support of the · University's business college, which has been named in the couple's honor. The Mendozas were among seven philan­thropists in the Slate 60 who contributed directly to college or university business schools. 
Thomas Mendoza, a 1973 Notre Dame graduate, is president of Network Appliance [NetApp]. a Sunnyvale, Calif., company that is the leading provider of network attached data access and man­age.men t solutions. Kathy Mendoza, a graduate of the University of Oklahoma, is president of worldwide strategic alliances for NetApp. 
Founded in 1921, the Mendoza College of Business is ranked by Forbes magazine as one of the nation's top 20 in giving MBA students the best return on their investment, and Business Week has rated the college's business ethics curriculum the best in American higher education. 
The college is Notre Dame's second largest with some 1,800 undergraduates, 780 advanced degree students {MBA, Executive MBA, master of accountancy, and master of science in administration) and 130 faculty. 
The college is divided into four depart­ments -accountancy, finance and busi­ness economics, management, and mar­keting -and also includes courses and concentrations in fields such as marketing and information systems, e-commerce, human resources, international business and management consulting. 
In addition, the college has developed six centers for scholarly research and teaching: the Center for Research in Banking, the Center for Research in Business, the Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business, the Center for U.S.-Japanese Business Studies, the Eugene D. Fanning Center for Business Communication and the Gigot Center for Entrepreneurial Studies. 
TAKING THE MIKE 

University presents service award to Italian religious
. ~ 
Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame Award for interna­tional humanitarian service will be given to Andrea Riccardi, founder of the Comuunity of Sant'Egidio. Riccardi will receive the award at a ceremony on campus March 27. 
"Andrea Riccardi and his companions are truly evangelists of deed," said University president, Father Edward Malloy. "He and they preach the Gospel by living it, and by living it, they soften hearts the world had known to be hard­ened, resolve quarrels the world had known to be intractable, and win friends the world had known to be enemies. We are privileged to honor their witness." 
Riccardi is a professor of contempo­rary history at the Third University of Studies in Rome, where he teaches courses ~n modern church history. He has also taught at the Sapienza University and the University of Bari. He specializes in relationships among the world's religions and has written or edited several books. including "French Catholicism, Neo-Gallicanism and Bourgeois Catholicism"; "Rome from the Conciliation to the Sturzo Operation"; "The Roman Party after World War II"; "The Power of the Pope from Pius XII to John Paul II"; "The Mediterranean of the 20th Century"; "The Mediterranean: Christianity and Islam Between Cohabitation and Conflict"; and "A Century of Blood and Faith: Christians in 
the 20th Century." 

Riccardi is internationally known as the founder of the Sant'Egidio Community, whose mediation was instrumental in the 1992 agreement which brought a fragile peace to Mozambique after 16 years of civil war. The community. begun in 1968 by Riccardi and a few of 
his classmates from Rome's Virgilio High School, today has 40,000 members in 60 countries on four continents. 
Opposed to all forms of violence, whether legal or ille­gal, Sant'Egidio mem­bers have attempted to mediate and resolve conflict in Albania, Angola, Guatemala, Kosovo, Lebanon, Somala and, most recently, in Burundi. The commu­nity also has been active in recent international efforts to abolish capital punishment, gather­ing 2.7 million of the 
3.2 million signatures on a petition to that endwhich recently was presented to Kofi 
Visit The 

Summer Employment Glacier National Park, :\1ontana 
Observer 
The Resort at Glacier St. Mary Lodge 
Online. 
Be a part of the team! 
For more information call: 
http://observer.nd.edu 
I-R00-368-3689 
:\pply Online :q; 
www.glacierparkjobs.com 

• Annan, secretary general of the United Nations. The Sant'Egidio Community has received numerous awards for its wit­ness and acoomplishments and was a candidate for the 1997 Nobel Peace Prize. 
The Sant'Egidio Community is named for the Carmelite convent in Rome's Trastevere neighborhood where Riccardi and his friends first began to gather to pray, run a soup kitchen. and tutor children of the neighborhood's poor people. Among their inspirations was Pope John X?(III's insistence that the Catholic Church is "for everyone, especially the poor." 

· miss (see our website afwww.nd.ec1u/~osc). So <lo~'t spend your Valenhr1e's Do~ > sulking alone. Come vent your> frusfr>afion in a more consfrudive manner> wifl1 LJOur f.,iends and staff af the Alumni-Senior Club this Wednesday Night. 
Must be 21 or older with valid i. d. 
Wednesday, February 14, 2001 page 7 
The Observer . NEWS 
Republicans expand Rich pardon investigation 
information on Rich in the final hours before the pardon. Adams said his staff had to perform an Internet search to gather more information. 
President Bush indicated Tuesday that he has little enthu­siasm for the investigations. 
"I think it's time to move on," he told reporters aboard Air Force One while flying back from . military exercises off the coast of Virginia. But he added that "Congress is going to do what it's going to do." 
Senate Democratic leader Tom Daschle echoed Bush's first thought: "I think the time has come for us to move on." 
But Senate GOP Whip Don Nickles, R-Okla., said, "With Mr. Rich I think the public is entitled to know what happened." 
The phrase -"It's time to move on"-is Bush's stock phrase for when he wants to avoid wading into controversies involving Clinton. Senior White House advisers. speaking on condition of anonymity, said not too much should be made of Bush's remark. 
CHILE 
Pinochet's lawyers appeal indictments for kidnapping, homocide 
Associated Press 
SANTIAGO Lawyers for former Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet appealed his indictment on Tuesday. calling the homicide and kidnapping 
charges against him "arbitrary, illegal, and unconstitutional." 
Pinochet lawyer Pablo Rodriguez argued that there is no clear evi­dence that Pinochet was responsible for dozens of political killings during his 17-year rule. 
"I have analyzed 10 cases where he has been accused of participa­tion but none of them clearly shows he was responsible for these crimes," he said. 
In a hearing at the Santiago Court of Appeals, Rodriguez also argued that the 85-year-old Pinochet is not healthy enough to stand trial. 
Doctors last month said Pinochet suffers from ''moderate demen­tia" brought on by minor strokes. He also has diabetes and arthritis, and wears a pacemaker. 
Speaking with reporters after the hea~ing, pr~secuting attor?ey Eduardo Contreras challenged Rodriguez s assert10n that a medical report had found Pinochet unfit to stand further questioning in the case. "It's a lie," he said. 
Pinochet was placed under house arrest Jan. 29, after he was for­mally notified of the homicide and kidnapping charges filed two days earlier. 
The charges stem from the "Caravan of Death,'" one of the most notorious cases of human rights abuses during Pinochet's 1973-90 dictatorship. The caravan was a military group that executed 75 political prisoners shortly after the 197_3 coup led by Pinochet. The remains of 18 ofthe victims were never recovered. 
University Laundry and Tanning 
Buy one Tan Package, Get the 2nd FREE Offer good for one person only -no splits 
Bush made his comments after Attorney General John Ashcroft said Monday he would be open to a proposal to grant Ms. Rich immunity in order to prod her to testify in the House investigation. 
Rich has lived in Switzerland since just before he was indicted in New York on federal charges in 1983. When pardoned by Clinton, he was wanted by the Justice Department on charges of tax evasion, fraud and partic­ipation in illegal oil deals with Iran. 
Ms. Rich has refused to answer questions from the House com­mittee about her donations. Republicans have said she gave at least $450,000 to the Clinton Presidential Library Fund and more than $1 million to the Democratic Party and Mrs. Clinton's campaign. 
The House panel sent a letter to the Secret Service asking for the Clinton White House entry logs for Ms. Rich and her family going back to 1993 and for Marc Rich's lawyer, former White House Counsel Jack Quinn, since January 1999. 

. President ·Bush suggests 'It's time to move on' 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Republicans in Congress expanded their inquiry into for­mer President Clinton's eleventh-hour pardon of fugitive financier 
Marc Rich, even as President Bush sug­gested Tuesday "it's time to move on." 


T h e Clinton H o u s e Government Reform Committee 
asked the Secret Service for logs that would indicate how often Rich's supporters visited the White House before the pardon. The panel also issued its first subpoenas, including ones to Clinton's presidential library and for bank records of Rich's ex­wife Denise. 
Ms. Rich contributed an esti­mated $450,000 to the library, more than $1.1. million to the Democratic Party and at least $109,000 to Hillary Rodham Clinton's Senate campaign. 
, A Senate Judiciary Committee, meanwhile, planned to hold its first hearing Wednesday on Clinton's pardon. A senior mem­ber of the panel, Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa., has suggested the pardons might warrant a new impeachment effort against the former president or amending the Constitution to weaken the presidency's pardon authority. 

Specter said Justice Department pardon guidelines were ignored in the case and questioned whether all of the documents that supplemented the pardon were signed before Clinton's term ended at noon on Jan. 20. 
That perspective is supported by the Justice Department offi­cial in charge of reviewing par­don applications. 
U.S. Pardon Attorney Roger C. Adams plans to tell the commit­tee that "none of the regular procedures were followed," according to The Washington Post. In Adams' prepared testi­mony, which has been submitted to the Senate Judiciary Committee, he says that the White House had virtually no 
Fresh-baked Cini--minis for just 99(. Maximum taste. 


The irresistible taste of Cini.:minis. 
Whether it was the smell or the great cinnamon taste that lured you in, after one bite you'll soon realize that the only thing small about our delicious Cini-minis is the price. 
The Huddle, Lafortune Student Center 



r, 
Wednesday, February 14, 2001 
page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
Congress warned of farm income drop 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

As if low crop prices weren't tough enough, the nation's farm economy is now being battered by soaring costs for energy and fertilizer, Congress was told Tuesday. 
Net farm income is likely to drop 20 per­cent, or $9 bil­
part because

lion, over the "It's not only low prices, 
of rising beef

next two years it's high production costs 
consumption

unless there is a 
that are squeezing and the low

fresh outpour­
grain prices,

ing of federal farmers.,. 
which result

aid, according 
in lower feed

to the congres­
Bruce Babcock costs.

sionally funded 
economist Crop prices 

Food and Agricultural Policy Research Institute, based at the University of Missouri. 
The cost of fuel that farmers need for tractors, combines and irrigation equipment jumped 31 percent last year. Prices may drop slightly in coming months, but growers are expected to be hit this year with a 33 percent increase in fertilizer costs, the report said. Nitrogen fertilizer is made from natural gas. 
"It's not only low prices, it's high production costs that are squeezing farmers,., said Bruce Babcock, an Iowa State University economist. 
Nebraska farmer Keith 
Dittrich said he expects to pay 
about $67 an acre to irrigate his 
corn this year, compared to $37 
an acre in 2000. Fertilizer costs 
are running $40 an acre, up 
from $25 last year. 
Meanwhile, the price of corn 

has averaged under $2 a bushel 
without a significant increase for 
several years. 
"You keep looking for ways to 

find better efficiencies in your 
operation, but there's a limit to 
that," Dittrich said. "It's to the 
point where there is no place to 
cut." 
The financial squeeze isn't just 

in the Midwest. Cotton farms in 
California and Texas that rely 
heavily on irrigation are likely to 
be among the hardest hit over 
the next few years, according to 
an analysis by Texas A&M 
Notre Dame Film, Television. and Theatre 

·~ 
I 

A<-~t(>rs J?1-<l111 Tl1t~ I-1>11rlt>11 Stagl-1 · · · 
University. Rice farms of all sizes are likely to lose money. too. Wheat and soybean farmers, whose fertilizer and fuel costs are generally lower, would do a little better. 
A 2,000-acre cotton farm in California is expected to have ~1.05 in costs for every $1 in mcome over the next five years. 
Cattle producers are in the 
best shape, in 
plummeted 
in the late 1990s because of lagging exports and heavy worldwide production, and Congress responded by passing multibil­lion~dollar packages of supple­mental assistance in each of the past three years. Last year, farmers received $8 billion in emergency aid. 
Lawmakers are virtually cer­tain to pass another large bailout this year, and they're starting hearings this month on a long-term overhaul of farm policy that includes proposals for a new system for subsidizing growers when crop income is down. 
Sen. Pat Roberts, R-Kan .. warned recently that farmers faced a "economic a_nd energy powder keg" because of the ris­ing production costs. Agriculture Secretary Ann Veneman has endorsed the idea of another emergency aid package this year but hasn't said how much money will be needed. 
The report released Tuesday 
estimates net farm income will 
drop from $45.4 billion last year 
to $39.6 billion in 2001 and 
$36. 3 billion in 2002 before 
starting to turn around in the 
following years as commodity 
prices rise. 
Farm income peaked at $55 
billion in 1996. 
Government payments have 
been soaring since then, topping 
$22 billion last year. triple what 
they were in 1996. 

Wednesday, February 21 .. 7:30 p.m. Thursday, February 22 ... 7:30 p.m. Friday, February 23 ............. 7:30 p.m. Saturday, February 24 ... 7:30 p.m. 
Playing at Washington Hall • Reserved Seats $16 Seniors $14 • All Students $1 2 
Tickets available at LaFortune Student Center Ticket Off' ice.
M
asterCard and Visa orders call 631-81 28. 

Risk to global oil supply growing 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Global energy demand will grow sharply over the next two decades with continued reliance on Persian Gulf oil producers and an increased risk of supply interruptions, a panel of energy and global security experts warn. 
While there will be growing dependence between energy suppliers and consumers "the risks posed by supply interruptions will be great~r" between now and 2020 than they have been m recent years, the panel said in a study. 
Despite recent price and supply shocks, world consumers of energy, including U.S. policy-mak­ers, have been too complacent about "the fragility of reliable and timely (energy) sup­plies," the report said. . The result of a three-year world energy pro­Ject by the Center for Strategic and International Studies, the report was worked on by a task force of private and public-sector energy and global security experts headed by former Sen. Sam Nunn of Georgia and James Schlesinger, former ~nergy and defense secretary in the Carter, Nixon and Ford administrations. 
The report, was being released Wednesday by Sen. Frank Murkowski, R-Alaska, who has ar~ued that global instability requires the United States to reduce its reliance on oil imports. 
By 2020. half of all the petroleum used by the world "will be met from countries that pose a high risk of internal instability," the study said, predicting that a crisis, perhaps even military conflict, is "highly likely" in one or more of the world's key energy producing countries. 
Furthermore, it said that Iran, Iraq and Libya, ea~h of which are under sanctions by either the Umted States or United Nations, are likely to "play an increasingly important role in meeting growing global (energy) demand." 
While not commenting specifically on any of 
the three countries, the task force urged U.S. 
Spend Valenture'J !bay witft tfw--6e y,oa fuve: 
Jerry Maguire and a Smoothie! 

Jerry Maguire Wednesday, February 14, 2001 7:30pm in Debartolo 102 
Free Admission 

The first 100 people will receive goodie bags with a coupon for a free smoothie from Reckers after the movie. Sponsored by the Student Activities Office 
policy-makers to "avoid the indiscriminate use of sanctions," saying they are "not an effective ~olicy tool" and hinder needed energy produc­t10n. 
. The stu~y. however, did not focus on the ques­t10n of imports vs. domestic production althou_gh_ it predicted in the coming years "U.S'. net oil imports will continue their steady growth." 
. Instead, it urges a series of policy directions aimed at developing closer ties to leading global oil prod~cers and warns that only the United States will be able to ensure the continued flow of energy supplies. 
The study questioned whether the United States, with its current commitments in north­eastern Asia, will be able to respond militarily to an energy crisis in the Middle East such as it did in the 1990 Gulf War. · 
Among other task force findings are that over the next 20 years: 
-World energy demand will increase by 50 percent and at some point developing countries, led by China. will begin to consume more energy than the developed countries. 
.Th~ 
Persian Gulf will remain the key supplier of 011 to world markets with its production expected to expand by 80 percent, but only with the help of foreign investment. 

. 
Electr~city will be the most rapidly growing sector with the greatest increase in Asia and Central and South America. 

. 
Technologies must be found and developed to make use of fossil fuels environmentally friendly and still economical. 

. 
There will be an increased threat of terr.orist attacks on oil and gas pipelines. 


"One of the ironies at the turn of the century," concludes the study, "is that in an age when the pace of technological change is almost over­wh~lming, the world will remain dependent, durmg 2000-2020 at least, essentially on the same sources of energy -fossil fuels -that prevailed in the 20th century." 

Wednesday, February 14, 2001 page 9 
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
'Gladiator' leads Oscar field 
Associated Press 
BEVERLY HILL.5, Calif. 

Hollywood's resurrection of Rome marches on: "Gladiator," the glitzy successor to "Ben­Hur" and "Spartacus," led the Oscar field Tuesday with 12 nominations, including best pic­ture, actor and director. 
Another tale of ancient war­riors, the Mandarin-language "Crouching Tiger. Hidden Dragon," was next with 10 ­picture, director and foreign­language film among them. 
Also receiving best picture nominations were the candy­shop romance "Chocolat," the legal drama "Erin Brockovich" and the drug-trade saga "Traffic." 
Steven Soderbergh grabbed two of the five best-director slots, for "Erin Brockovich" and "Traffic" -which could hurt his chances of winning if the two films siphon votes from each other. The last time a director was nominated twice in the same year was Michael Curtiz in 1938, for "Angels with Dirty Faces" and "Four Daughters." (He lost.) 
The other director nominees Tuesday were Stephen Daldry for "Billy Elliot," Ang Lee for "Crouching Tiger" and Ridley Scott for "Gladiator." 
"Gladiator," the first Roman spectacle since the 1960s, also grabbed nominations for actor Russell Crowe, supporting actor Joaquin Phoenix and Hans Zimmer's score. The computer wizardry used to recreate ancient Rome was named for "There's much of Rome that visual effects. feels very contemporary," Wick 
"Those effects were crucial," said. "A population distracted said David Franzoni, a produc­by entertainment from more er on "Gladiator" who also serious issues. The idea of shared an original screenplay celebrity athletes.... It always nomination for the film. ''I'd felt relevant." never seen Rome rebuilt where It was the second year in a it looked real. It always looked row that DreamWorks, the stu­like a set. I was never con­dio co-founded by Steven 
vinced  from  Spielberg, had the  
those  old  film with the most  
movies that I  "/ was never  nominations.  
was looking at ancient Rome. But we  convinced from those old movies that I was  "Gladiator" was co-produced by Universal and  
were able to  looking at ancient  DreamWorks, with  
show what Rome looked like. That Goodyear  Rome. But we were able to show what Rome looked like . .,  the latter releasing the film domesti­cally. A year ago, DreamWorks won  
blimp shot of  best-picture hon­ 
t h e Colosseum -you couldn't  David Franzoni "Gladiator'' producer  ors with "American Beauty."  

have done that any other way." 
In their heyday. gladiator flicks fared well at the Oscars. "Ben-Hur" won best picture and 10 other Academy Awards in 1959. (Its total of 11 is tied with "Titanic" for the most ever.} A year later, Peter Ustinov took the supporting­actor statue for "Spartacus," which also won Oscars for cos­tumes, sets and cinematogra­phy. "Cleopatra" had a best-pic­ture nomination for 1963 and won four technical Oscars. 
On top of its stunning visuals, "Gladiator" caught on because the frenzy of deadly spectator sports resonated with audi­ences, said Douglas Wick, another of its producers. 

"Crouching Tiger" is only the third film to earn both best-picture and for­eign-language film nomina­tions. The others were "Life Is Beautiful" in 1998 and "Z" in 1969. Last weekend, "Crouching Tiger" hit $60 mil­lion, passing "Life is Beautiful" as the domestic box-office champ among foreign-language films. 
Top categories shaped up largely as expected, but there were a few surprises. Ed Harris was nominated for best actor and Marcia Gay Harden for supporting actress for "Pollock," a film biography of painter Jackson Pollock that generally had been overlooked for earlier movie honors. 
Lieberman stresses peace between parties 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Sen. Joe Lieberman urged his fellow Democrats Tuesday night to put aside their anger over the 2000 presidential elections and re­engage .~··> 
~. _•,
i) . 

w Repub-);:; 
licans in "a 
., . -~l 

g r e a t 
::q~ ~--~·-·,:

national ... 
debate 
,,1

about the future of 
Lieberman

our coun­try." 
"It would be easy to continue to be angry about the way last year's election was decided," said the Connecticut senator who was the Democratic vice presidential nominee last year. "But that would be an abdication of the values and programs in which we believe and a disservice to the mil­lions of hard-working families for whom we waged that cam­paign." 
Lieberman told those attend­ing the winter dinner of the New Democrats Network that the centrist Democrats in their group will play a vital role in setting the national agenda because of the closely divided House and Senate. 
The New Democrat Network honored Lieberman, one of the founders of the political action group that raises money and recruits candidates to run on the centrist ideas of the New Democrat movement. The movement was founded in the mid-1980s to move the party toward the center and regain the White House. Former President Clinton and Vice President Al Gore, the unsuc­cessful presidential candidate, used many of those ideas to run for the White House in 1992. 
"Over the past decade, the New Democrat movement has grown from a rump faction to the mainstream of the Democratic Party," he told the crowd that included members of Congress. party activists and political consultants who attended the dinner and fund­raiser, that raised $1.2 mil­lion. "I need not remind you that the past three Democratic presidential tickets have been thoroughly New Democratic 
ones, and all three  won  the  
most votes."  
Rep.  Harold  Ford  of  

Tennessee said in the closely divided Congress "if any legis­lation is going to get done, New Democrats will have to help get it done." 
Simon Rosenberg, president of the New Democrat Network, called Tuesday "a big night for New Democrats in Congress." The New Democrat Network was founded in 1996 by Lieberman, Sen. John Breaux of Louisiana and Rosenberg. 

"114BTl, 1141 TB!" 
Have you been thinking about: 
• Living in an exciting city? 
• Studying in the nation•s capitol? 
• 
Working in an internship? 

• 
Studying Public Affairs? 


Then the Washington Semester Program Is for you! 
Applications now being accepted for Fall 2001 and Spring 2002 Semesters. 
Open to: Sophomores, Juniors & Seniors 
~ -=-~~-From all colleges
1 

-~,..;....---==-= For more information go to the Washington Semester website at: 
www.nd.edu/ semester/ 
or for an application, come to 346 o•shaughnessy 
Daad¦¦ IIII--·-.....ruarv "1111 

page 10 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, February 14, 200 I 

'4 
happy valentine's da>:J • • 

open auu1t1ons 
~p 
,. . 

. for theSummer 
Sigh no more, ladies, sigh no more, Men were deceivers ever, One foot in sea, and one on shore, To one thing constant never. 
Then sigh not so, But let them go, And be you blithe and bonny, converting all your sounds ofwoe Into Hey nonny nanny. 
MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING 


Notre Dame & St. Mary's students ac­cepted will be enrolled in "Shakespeare in Performance," a Summer Session course team-taught by Professor Paul Rathburn (Notre Dame) and Kate Pogue (Houston Shakespeare Festival). 
students accepted for the cast of Much Ado About Nothing \ivill receive: 
a summer stipend a summer tuition scholarship a role in an equity production 

for more information call or email 
Paul Rathburn 631.5069 -rathburn. l@nd.edu 
or . 

Mark Abram Copenhaver 284.4645 -macopen@saintmarys.edu 
production ~f 
much ado about nothing 
audition dates: f riday, february 16 
3:00 pm -6:00 pm 
saturday, febraury 17 1 :00 pm -3:00 pm 


audition location: 
mckenna hall (across the street from the Morris Inn) lower level ETS theatre 
prepare: 3-4 minute selection from the Shakespearean comedy ofyour choice 

Wednesday, February 14, 200 I page 11
The Observer . NEWS 

Navy to use robots to examine fishing boat sinking 
• Remotely-operated'Deep Drone' may aid recovery operation 
Associated Press 
HONOLULU 

The Navy will use a deep-sea robot to investigate the ocean floor where a Japanese fishing vessel sank after it was struck by a U.S. submarine, a Navy spokeswoman said Monday. 
Lt. Col. Christy Samuels, spokeswoman for the U.S. Pacific Command in Hawaii, said no decision about a sal­vage operation had been made. 
She did not say when the .remote-controlled submersible would be dropped. 
The remotely operated vehi­cle Scorpio [I and the Klein 2000 Side Scan Sonar System were flown to Hawaii on Monday night from a Navy base in Coronado, Calif., the Navy said in a news release. 
And being flown to Hawaii from the mainland is "Deep Drone." a remotely operated vehicle "designed to meet the needs for deep ocean recov­ery," the news release said, indicating the Navy may be preparing a recovery opera­tion. 
The possibility of a salvage operation -which has been urged by the Japanese -was the subject of a meeting planned Monday between Adm. Dennis Blair, comman­der of the U.S. Pacific Command, and Yoshitaka Sakurada, Japan's parlia­mentary secretary for foreign affairs. 
The Ehime Maru went down in 1,800 feet of water nine miles from Honolulu on Friday after it was hit by the surfacing USS Greeneville. Twenty-six people were res­cued, but nine are missing and feared dead. 
The Navy and Coast Guard have searched more than 5,000 square miles with no signs of the missing. who include four Japanese stu­dents, two instructors and three crewman. 
Anguished relatives have urged the Navy to conduct a salvage operation and Prime Minister Yoshiro Mori has said rescuers should use "all available means" to raise the vessel. 
The Ehime Maru is 180 feet long and 499 tons. Bringing it nearly one-third of a mile to the surface would be costly and risky, experts said. 
"It's a salvage operation that I think is unrealistic," said Charles Vick of the Federation of American Scientists in 

Sonar 
Sonar, which is sound navigation and ranging, is used to detect objects in the water. 
Active sonar produces a ping, or sound wave, which travels to another object, · . ~J>ffitanQ returna to th&~-.·: 
'"FTh~,~~iOQ;])QJ'.!oe$iQ~trtify tM>? ?; .. 
•di~igrl~d'distance of.other·~·..:,ssi,ii 
t.JnfQrtunat~. Jtlis type otsonaraiso 
.. ::-·::.::-;,.-· -:•:•,'. ·.: -...· -~f~: . ',, -.·· ·_:. '. }\·_.:,:.. 
gives aw ythe submarine's positio . 
/ ·:,;.;,/•" .•·:·· ......-. . 
Sources: U.S. Navy; U.S. Naval Institute; Globalsecurity.com 
Washington. "I know it's hard to say that to people." 
Others said risks and expense will be weighed against a strong interest in avoiding damage to U.S~ rela­tions with Japan. 
"The pressure is on us very. very strongly to do something along this line," said John Craven, a professor of ocean studies at the University of Hawaii who helped develop the Navy's deep-submergence pro­gram. 
Craven said he could not recall the raising of an entire boat the size of the Ehime Maru from a similar depth. He said the Navy must first deter­mine whether the ocean floor at the site is sandy or muddy and whether the vessel has broken apart. 
Sonar and Surfacing: How· a submarine works 
Asubmarine dives by filling its ballast tanks with water to make it heavier, causing it to submerge. To surface again, compressed air pushes water out of the tanks, making the vessel lighter so it rises. 
~------·---------------------------------------------------·----------, 

"BRINGING THE ARTS TO LIFE" 
DANA GIOIA will be speaking about her essay collection 
"CAN POETRY MATTER?" 
8-10 .pm in the 
LaFortune Ballroom, Today Monday, February 12, 2001 

Don't forget about tomorrow ..... 

www.nd.edu/--sub 
. ' . . ..•. 

50 feet below e surface to see ''..•· again, injects·•·· · ast tanks .'"•+ 
, , ., . -:~n.•.,:,•-•,, 
Wm. J. Castello, S. Hoffmann/AF 
If it is relatively intact, Craven said, "lift bags" could be attached and inflated, rais­ing the ship. 
But the depth at the site would pose a huge challenge. 
"Can divers operate freely in the water at 2,000 feet?" Craven asked. "The answer is probably not," meaning the Navy would have to rely on remotely controlled robots. 

Student Coffeehouse Lafortune Ballroom Tuesday, February 13 8-l0pm signups in 201 LaFortune (sub) 


AJ_HE 

page 12 vnSERVER Wednesday, February 14, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Noue Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Nocrc Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Tim Lane 
NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Mattingly VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey 
SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smith ScrNl: EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MAR.rs EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: Elizabeth Lang 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAC.Elt: Chris Avila 
Sm-EMS ADMINlSTRATOR: Mike Gunville WEB AoMINlSTRATOR: Adam Turner CoNTllOllER: Bob Woods 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Cudlar 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISJNG.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHJEF........................................63 l-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AsST. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OmcE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
• observer .obsnews. I@nd.edu VJEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer .viewpoint. I@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
ScENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MAR\"s.............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB AoMINISTRATOf(S.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:llobst'nln'.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise fur policies 
online features for spe­
and rates ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
staff
August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse: advertisements based on content. 
The m:ws is reported as accurately and objectivdy as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Oticf, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letterS and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is availabk to all readers. The free exp~ion ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Quertiom regarding Obsnverpolicm1/mJd bt direct­ed to Editor in ChiefMilre GmnoUy. 

GUEST COLUMN 
Democracy needs party variety 
OXFORD. Miss. 

In a 1996 Halloween episode of The Simpsons, Homer discovers that Bill Clinton and Bob Dole have been replaced by shapeshifting aliens plotting to take overthe world when whichever of them is elected. Homer reveals their sinis­Mark Rogers ter plan to the world just before the election so that Daily no one will vote for 
Mississippian

them, but the aliens laugh it off, saying, "Puny Earthlings! What can you do? It's a two­party system! Bwaaahaha!" 
I'm sure Ross Perot and Ralph Nader thought it was hilarious. 
The truth is that for a country which prides itself on having fostered the mod­ern notion of democracy, America has a funny way ofshowing it. Rarely, ifever, has a third-party candidate seriously threatened to win a national election, condemned instead to play the role of spoiler. Perot was a brash candidate whose unprecedented level of support challenged many notions ofgrass-roots efforts in modern politics, but as soon as the election was over he was forced to assume the mantle of "that guy who cost Bush the election." 
Perhaps it was Perot's strong showing among otherwise conservative voters that cost Bush his lead. Perhaps it was Bush's inability to articulate a clear domestic agenda. Regardless, the fact remains that the role of spoiler continues to be the only achievement possible for candidates who do not wish to embrace the platforms of the two major parties. 
This is or should be almost inconceiv­able for a country heralded as the world's defender of freedom. Many of the foreign nations whose governments have been remolded in America's image over the past century now reveal a freer, 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
What are your clothes saying? 
Skintight red tube top, short tight black miniskirt. Figure clearly revealed; little left to the imagination. 
Who am I describing? A typical Notre Dame girl on her way to a bar or a dorm party? Yes and no. 
Yes, this description fits many of my Notre Dame sisters on their way to a social event. Unfortunately it also describes one ofthe prostitutes among the crowd of "sinner" characters dur­ing this past weekend's performance of Guys and Dolls in Washington Hall. What does it say when everyone's favorite Friday night fashion is adopted as the costume for a prosti­tute? 
Some may argue that it doesn't say anything, that the girls who go out in these tight clothes simply think they look "pret­ty" in them. But like it or not these clothes make a statement and that statement is not "Let's have an intelligent and enjoy­able conversation possibly leading to a healthy friendship or romance." You can figure out for yourself what these clothes are saying -and I don't think the majority of my fellow Notre Dame girls want to be saying it. 
I don't think they truly want a guy to talk to them just more open political process than the one here that they are trying to mimic. 
The idea of a two-party system is unthinkable in places like Japan, where their political spectrum has been frag­mented into so many different flavors that more than a dozen different parties now fight for small percentages of repre­sentation like dogs at a butcher shop. In a land where the public's choices for political parties are widely varied, a clear majority is virtually impossible. 
The result is a defacto system of com­promise and coalition in which like­minded politicians from competing par­ties choose to ally themselves on particu­lar issues or against particular foes and in which the slightest disagreement between partners can bring a shaky coalition government to its knees. 
We could learn a thing or two here. A political system which has many compet­ing choices becomes by default the gov­ernmental equivalent of Kroger, a buyer's market in which political parties must seriously sell their product, a plat­form of ideals and proposals, to a skepti­cal and flighty public. 
Besides, the idea of a mini-mall politi­cal arena fits in snugly with one of the great unspoken truths about Americans: that for all of our vaunted progressive ideas we are often surprisingly conserva­tive and slow-moving. It took a century to remove slavery from the last bit of American soil, another to bring about real changes in civil rights and may take yet another to erase the vestiges of prej­udice still lingering in our national dis­course. 
Like the Roman Empire before it, America's progression from a forested land of "every man for himself' to a modernized nation with its large, heavi­ly-taxing protective government has been more like a glacier than a rapid river. A multi-party system plays right into this innate hesitancy. 
because they look sexy. I don't think they want a relationship to start based on the allure of skintight clothes. I think deep down we all want a guy to be attracted to us because of our intelligence, humor, integrity, loyalty and kindness. Not because of our cleavage. 
Girls, take a look in the mirror this weekend and ask your­self honestly what your outfit is saying. There's nothing wrong with looking attractive as long as you are still respecting your body instead of flaunting it. Do your clothes say "I respect myself and am proud to look so nice" or do they say "I want to seduce you"? 
Do you really want to say that? 
Do you think it's right to say that? 
Are you prepared for the answer? 
Sheila Payne 
sophomore Cavanaugh Hall February 13. 2001 
Don't like sudden swings in the tax brackets, in either direction? Try coordi­nating five competing coalition partners into a budget deal. 
Tired of the influence of the so-called special-interest money on governmental decisions? Try a system in which no one party controls the majority and by exten­sion the purse strings. 
Upset at how close the 2000 election was or convinced that the party with slightly fewer votes in the key state won the whole state? Try a system in which no one is the president until a majority coalition is in place, in which the recent trend of plurality-takes-all would be halted. 
Think about this cold reality: a majori­ty of the American voting public did not vote for George W. Bush. A majority of the American voting public did not vote for Al Gore. In fact, no candidate since 1988 has received a majority of the pop­ular vote. 
What we have is two parties so closely tied among the vast political center that they cannot achieve a majority, but so locked in mortal combat with each other that they cannot see the serious damage being done to the government for which they claim to be servants. 
In a country which forced the two top non-majority candidates to learn to work together (since a runoff system would simply perpetuate the mistakes of today), we would take the word "mandate" much more seriously. Then you would start to see some real change. 
This column first appeared in the University ofMississippi's newspaper. Daily Mississippian, on Feb. 12. 2001. and is reprinted here courtesy ofU­WIRE. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 


.; 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"To fall in love is to create a religion that has a fallible god. " 
Jorge Luis Borges writer 


r\J:HE 

Wednesday, February 14, 2001 vnSERVER 
page 13 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Students promote chaste lifestyle 
This letter, like many of those printed in this newspaper, is aimed at raising stu­dent awareness to a topic that is of inter­est to the student body. Particularly, this letter is concerning the week of Feb. 12­16, which has been named National Chastity Week by many organizations around the country. Several students have been involved with a group called the National Chastity Task.force. These students will be working to bring aware­ness of the topic to our campus during this week. 
We feel that chastity is a topic ihat, as far as intelligent dialogue between stu­dents goes, has been very neglected. In today's society chaste relationships which attempt to use sexuality to promote unity and love among all people is very difficult. It necessarily follows that even talking about the topic has become very stigma­tized. It seems that fifty years ago it would be unheard ofto hear the word "sex" thrown around on every episode of a sit­com, yet in today's programming it is almost impossible to find even a show that depicts single men and women keep­ing their bodies pure. 
Here at Notre Dame many wish to look at our raw numbers of how many and how often people are having sex or doing other impure actions in reassurance that we as a university are doing great com­pared to the big state schools which have co-ed dorms and no parietals. 
However, chastity is not just an action but an attitude and a way of life. It is true that there are many people on campus who are not sexually active, which is very good, but we all know there is room for improvement. 
No one would seriously debate that to have a good relationship there should be true love. The debate often comes when defining both true love and how that love should be expressed. 
Is having sex with many people before marriage a good way to love your future spouse? You could say "honey, they didn't mean anything to me," but then how would she know that sex with her means 
anything? Ifthey did mean something to you then how will you be truly united to her? It seems this can only lead to prob­lems both with the marriage and within the unchaste person. 
Now the high divorce rate surely cannot be totally blamed on the high "unchastity rates" in our nation, but anyone who has had sex could tell you that it is not just the physical feelings. From a theological viewpoint, sex was made for its uniting and procreative aspects not solely as a means to have good sensations. Sex with­out relationship is lacking so much in its potential, like a star athlete that decides to drop out of school and sell drugs as opposed to going to the pros. It is a waste and it is destructive. 
As an attitude, chastity shouldn't even stop with marriage. Married couples still should be chaste both by refraining from extra-marital sex and by remembering to treat each other as people and not just objects of sexual pleasure. 
This week, the nation's chastity organi­zations would love to change the world overnight to an Earth that respects all its inhabitants and all of their bodies. Realistically however, they wish only to stir dialogue and awareness, as do many other "National Weeks." 
It is very important, however, that we at Notre Dame set an example for Catholic campuses and universities all over the world. If we are too closed minded to / examine our own views ofsex while images of the ultimately chaste humans, Jesus and Mary, are all around us, then we are not saying much for the hope of the world. 
David Yeager Notre Dame Students for Living Love 
freshman Dillon Hall February 12, 2001 

Practicing ideals without double standards 
"What does it really mean to be human? What does it mean to practice democratic ideals?" These were just a couple questions that Dr. Cornel West asked his audience in DeBartolo Hall a few weeks ago. 
In light of recent circumstances on campus, I think these are two questions that we as students and mem­bers of a larger human community need to ask our­selves. 
On Friday I sat in the hallway of LeMans Hall and watched as many students signed and while some passed by and refused to sign a petition in support of free speech. Ask yourselves the two questions posed by Dr. West and then explain to me why people flatly refused to sign such a petition. 
Granted this "sit-in" and petition were arranged in reaction to the prohibition of "The Vagina Monologues" on campus, but free speech is free speech and if we don't support that, what does that say about our definition of humanity or democracy? 
The most disturbing part of the sit-in was watching the Saint Mary's student body vice-president elect pass by and hostilely refuse to sign this petition. The student body president elect also refrained from signing. That makes me worry about the future of Saint Mary's College. 
A member ofthe Parent's Council, who allegedly played a role in censoring the monologues, also passed through. One man, the father of a Saint Mary's student, stopped and read the petition. He looked interested and seemed excited to see students taking action. He asked which theatrical presentation had been censored, and when he heard the word "vagina" he rudely shoved the petition back into the student's hand and walked away. arm in arm with his wife, who said nothing. 
Anyone who has been in a minority group knows the importance of naming and defining oneself. If we don't define ourselves, someone else will. Instead of allowing the presentation of "The Vagina Monologues" and talk­ing about our sexuality, women's sexuality, we are silenced and therefore remain passive. 
Instead of holding this event to embrace the many beautiful aspects of women's sexuality, we let the Keenan Review take place on this very campus and in a way define our sexuality for us. In essence we let a group of post-adolescent males define our sexuality with age­old negative stereotypes. I went to the Keenan Review my freshman year and I laughed nervously at the jokes that stereotypically defined Saint Mary's women as sexu­al objects, Notre Dame women as ugly and therefore not important and Zahm Hall men as gay and therefore abnormal. 
So in one event the men -or maybe I should say boys -of Keenan Hall define two sets of women and gay peo­ple according to their idea ofsexuality as centered on the white male heterosexual. I remember the joke about BP and all the girls being fat. I also remember one of my dearest friends who lived in that dorm dealing with eat­ing disorders. Someone please explain to me how perpet­uating harmful stereotypes is contributing to the well being of humanity or democracy. 
I know the response to my ideas presented here. People will tell me to lighten up because these are all just jokes. Well, in my opinion, these jokes are harmful. 
However, being a proponent of free speech, I would never say the boys of Keenan Hall should not be allowed to perform their show but in my opinion it should not take place on the Saint Mary's College campus. 
Sadly, I read in the paper today the article in which the Saint Mary's Board of Governance gave the following rea­sons to keep the Keenan Revue on campus: the Revue brings Notre Dame students to our campus; we should try to promote good campus relations: not allow­ing the Revue at Saint Mary's would make us look "bitchy;" and we should keep it in the "spirit of goodwill." 
I will not promote something in the "spirit of goodwill" which promotes stereotypes 
V, 'l. 

of me or any other 
Saint Mary's woman as stupid or slutty, which is exactly what the revue does. I am really disappointed in the students of Saint 
Mary's. Open your eyes and see what's really going on. 
At the beginning of this academic school year I was in my boyfriend's dorm room. We heard banging on the wall and when we opened the door, the freshmen in his section had written on it the words, "Yeah, get some from the SMC chic." School had only been in session for less than a month and these poor little freshmen's minds had already been corrupted with these harmful stereo­types which are then reinforced a semes­ter later in the Keenan Review. I was highly offended that a few freshmen thought they had the right and audacity to talk about my sexuality in that way, without so much as ever having met me. I am a senior at Saint Mary's and I am really tired of dealing with inci• dents such as these. These stereotypes are used quite often to divide the women of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. 
Perhaps it is time for the women of both campuses to unite and reject these male imposed labels. As for all the women and men of these two campuses who will dis­agree will me, maybe you have bought into "the system." It's a shame that we internalize such repressive "tradi­tions" to the degree that it is acceptable for men to talk about and make fun of women's sexuality, but it is con­sidered "shocking" (to quote a Saint Mary's student) for women to talk about our own. 
On Friday at the sit-in I sat next to a Notre Dame woman who decided to take the bus over by her­self to unite with Saint Mary's students and stand up for free speech and the validity of "The Vagina Monologues." Across from me sat another Notre Dame woman who is a first year law student and also wished to exercise her con­cern over the repression of free­dom ofspeech. Three cheers for them. The women ofSaint Mary's and Notre Dame who attend­
ed the sit-in took the first step together. Let's all come together and ask 
questions about humanity and democracy so that we can make these campus­es, this country and this 
world a better place, not a divided one where repressive stereotypes shape our view of the world, without us even being aware of it. 
To me it seems clear that these issues are relat­ed and should be dis­
cussed in context of one 
tJQ. 

another. It~m jubst posingI some ques 10ns ecause think it is important to look at these events like the cen­sorship of ..The Vagina Monologues" and the thought­less support for the Keenan Review in order to examine how 
they affect people in these commu­nities. I found Dr. West's ideas to be quite 
enlightening and I think we could all bene­fit from asking ourselves the two basic ques­
tions he proposed. "What does it really mean to be human?" "What does it mean to practice democratic ideals seriously?" 
Focusing on answering these two questions, maybe we can put recent circumstances into a broader perspective and understand the deeper issues involved. 
Carolyn Kelley 
senior off-campus February 13, 200 I 

V A L 
N E s 
page 14 Wednesday, February 14, 2001 
To commit or not: holiday sparks the tough questions 
It is upon us again. The candy, the carnations and the senti­mental cards. Valentine's Day has arrived in South Bend -the perpetual holiday of loving, yearning and overall melancholy. 
However. on this national day of affection and affliction, one question remains to be asked: has monogamy become the exception rather than the rule? 
We are in college. We are supposed to date. A lot. We are supposed to be charm­ing. articulate and potential mates to everyone we meet. Quite frankly, it's exhausting. 
But in the hazy days of break-ups. make-ups an.d random hook-ups. people don't seem to be looking for commitment. We seem to be on the lookout for quite the opposite -something short, sweet and convenient. 
Even while in relationships, we con­stantly second guess ourselves, wonder­ing if we're doing the right thing, if we really want commitment. 
We look over our shoulders, asking our­selves if there might be something better out there, something more. Basically, we're so busy seeking eligibility that we don't have the time for fidelity. 
Can there possibly be one person out there with whom we can happily share the rest of our lives, or at least until spring break? Do we even want to? 
With the possibilities brought on by dimly lit bar scenes and 

Natural Light at our fingertips. has monogamy become a rare 
and exceptional thing? Glancing in the door of a typical dorm 
party or two, it certainly seems to be. the case -with the 
exception of one sugary, candy-coated day in February.. 
Welcome to Valentine's Day: the most celebrated, lummous 

and glossy promotion of commitment we have to offer. This is 
the day when we all want someone, anyone to adore us. . 
The once happily eligibles, the ones who scoffed at commit­

ment, suddenly feel the need to have someone of the opposite 
sex in their life. Those already in committed relationships stop 
wondering if monogamy is worth it, and suddenly are perfectly 
happy to be in a relationship. 
As a result, the holiday isn't only a skyrocketing day for 

Hallmark stock options, but the one day of the year when 
monogamy and commitment are commended. 
However once the chocolates are eaten, the flowers wilted 

and the ca~ds recycled, are we any further along? It's almost 
as if we have to have our sexuality validated with a couple of 
Hershey Kisses. 
This is hardly the case. The happily single shouldn't let a day 

change their perspective on the dating scene. It is, after all, 
just another holiday (like Arb?r Day, but with candy.) . 
We complain that Valentine s Day makes us feel more sm­

gle," but so what? Being single is hardly a life-threatening 
condition -it's more of an opportunity than anything else. 
You have the freedom to meet people, get to know them and, 

if you like, date them. It can be short, s~eet_an~ convenient, 
or something more. The beauty of the s1tuat10n 1s that you can 
choose your own path with limited consequences. 
For the committed, Valentine's Day shouldn't be the only day 

you're sure of your relationship. It is certai:11Y easy to do~bt 
yourself, questioning if you've chosen t?~ ~ight path_. and 1f a 
relationship is right for you. However, if 1t s somethmg that, 
you both want, your hesitancy will all but disappear. 
You don't need to rely on a holiday to verify your feelings. 

It's true that finding commitment may be an exceptional thing 
these days. But when you're with the right person, every day 
can be a holiday. 
We can all celebrate Valentine's Day. Whether we're com­
mitted or single, the day will come and go relatively quickly. 
We'll continue down our respective paths, meeting and dating 
people along the way. 
We will still have our own philosophies on love and dating ­
a holiday shouldn't change that. As long as we keep looking 
for more than what we have, maybe monogamy and commit­
ment are too much to ask. However, if that something more, or 
someone right, comes along, they won't be. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Valentine's lovers and 
By LAURA KELLY 
Associate Scene Editor 

For those lucky lovebirds who have someone special in their life, the question of how to spend this Valentine's Day looms large. New couples puzzle over how to surprise each other, while those in serious relationships rely on tried-and-true ways to express their love. 
No matter how young or how weathered the relationship, there are always creative ways to spend the holiday, often without spending much money or doing extensive planning. 
Thus, here are the top 10 ways to spend Valentine's Day when you have a significant other: 
10. Go out to dinner. The classic romantic fall-back: soft candlelight, gentle music and the two of you slurping on spaghetti a la "Lady and the Tramp." Taking that special someone in your life out for an elegant meal is always a sure way to win brownie points and show off your good taste. 
Try Italian or French cuisine for this holiday of love, as the Europeans are notorious Casanovas. Many area resiaurants offer Valentine's Day specials, but be sure to call ahead for reservations as you don't want your plans of wining and dining to fall through at the last moment. 
9. Cook dinner. For those who are a little low in the funds department and are looking for other creative ways to treat the ones they love, try cooking your own meal. No excuses here ­you can flex many of the ingredients for a gourmet meal at the good ol' Huddle, and dorm kitchens are available everywhere. 
Find a good cookbook. whip up something quick and easy and your love is sure to be impressed. This goes for both genders -food may be the way to a man's heart, but any woman will also be swept off her feet by her man's attempts to cook. If you don't have the time to devote to a full meal. go for the classic 
SYR batch of cookies or brownies. The thought is what counts. 
8. Spend a night at the movies. 
Hollywood has once again attempted to provide some d e c e n t Valentine's fare for lovebirds across America. South Bend 's own Showplace 16 and Movies 14 are offering several holiday­a ppr op r i ate flicks. For those looking for a fun or romantic first date, try the awkward­ness of first love in ••save the Last Dance" or the French seduction of "Chocolat." 

Top Ten Movies to Watch if You Love Valentine's Day 
10. •'Ghost": You, the one you love and a potter's wheel -the night is covered (in clay at least.) 
9. "Notting Hill": She's just a girl, standing in front of a boy, asking him to love her. And-he probably won't say no because she's Julia Roberts. 
8. "Sixteen Candles": Every girl deserves her own Jake Ryan. 
7. "Shakespeare In Love": He wrote about it, he lived it, and despite recent attacks on his sexuality, the man knows about romance. 
6. "Beauty and the Beast": You'll never complain about your boyfriend's personal hygiene again. 
5. "Love Story": Love means never having to say you're sorry, at least if you're a wealthy Harvard Law grad. 
4: "Untamed Heart": He gave her everything, even his heart. What did you get your heartthrob this year? 
3. "Far and Away": If they can make it on the wild frontier. you can make it at Notre Dame. 
2. "When Harry Met Sally": Yes, yes, yes! 
t. "An Affair to Remember": You might not be able to meet your sweetheart at the top of the Empire ~tate building, but at least consider Flanner Hall as a viable alternative. Remember to look both ways before cross­ing Juniper. though. 
•compiled by Katie Malmquist 
Banner Towing Company will fly your mes­sage of love over campus for a nominal fee. 
A smaller­scale surprise is easy to scheme up if you or a good friend can sing or have any portable musi­cal talent (pianos are dif­ficult to push 
across  the  
quad).  The  
classic  sere­ 

nade to a bed­room window has melted many a heart, and is sure not to fail, even if the eager war­bler is slightly tone-deaf. 
4. Go for a walk. While 
If you are up for a good scare or just ~ant your girl to leap into your arms with fright, check out the aptly named "Valentine" to see some holiday horror. And i~your r~lationship ~s well along in years and you re lookmg to take 1t to the next level. "The Wedding Planner" may be a way to subtly broach the subject. 
7. Play for a day. Everyone misses the care­free days of the playground, especially those of us buried under piles of homework and the stresses of school. Why not spend this Valentine's Day the way you would have in third grade? Take your boyfriend or girlfriend on a trip back in time. 
Find a local playground, race on the monkey bars and try to swing the highest. Indulge your inner six year-old and visit Chuck E Cheese ­play skee-ball and take a jump in the ball pit. 


Lace up a pair of roller or ice skates and hold hands during the Snowball Ska,te. Laugh at how you would have teased each other if you had gone to grade school together. 
6. Take a day · trip. Two destina­tions within rea­sonable travel dis­tance are Chicago and the Indiana or Michigan dunes. 
The South Shore provides regular and affordable service to down­town Chicago, where you can see a show or just window shop down Michigan Avenue. 
While Feb. 14 may not provide perfect beach weather, two love­
birds  can  still  
stroll  down  Matthew McConaughey andthe perfect V1 
beach  or  Wedding Planner," asit and  

watch the waves roll in. A quick romantic getaway might just be worth skipping a day of classes. 
5. Surprise! Whether or not they will admit it, almost everyone loves to be surprised. And holidays like Valentine's provide perfect oppor­tunities to catch that certain someone off guard. Several local companies provide singing telegrams. a public embarrassment perfect for the dining hall or a large Debartolo classroom. For those who like to splurge, the Aerial Ads 

South Bend may be lacking sandy beaches to amble down, there's nothing simpler or more romantic than a long walk together. When was the last time you strolled around the lake and just talked (or maybe more importantly, lis­tened)? For those who are itching to get off campus, borrow a car, pop in a good CD and go for a long drive. Indiana's endless stretches of 
cornfields are perfect to get lost in. 
3. Indulge your laziness. Everyone needs a day off during the dreary winter months. Why not play hooky with your favorite partner in crime? Call in sick to work, e-mail your profes­sors with lame excuses and spend a lazy day relaxing. Go to the dining hall in your pajamas and share a big breakfast. 
Rent a stack of movies from Block-buster or Hollywood and curl up on the couch. Most of 

V A L 
@ena N E s 
Wednesday, February 14, 2001 page 15 
lters can both enjoy day 
9. Count your blessings. Even if you don't technically have a girlfriend or boyfriend, you still have many things going for you on this hol­iday. Family, friends, a top-rate education, a sense of humor. Take some time to think about how much you really have. Flowers eventually die and chocolate gives you a stomach ache, anyway. 
8. Redo something. Channel that Valentine's aggression into a creative outlet. Crank up some angry music, tear everything off your walls and redecorate the entire room. Give yourself a makeover. Vent through poetry or compose an angst-full song and send it off to Alanis. 
7. Splurge. Don't wait around for someone to buy you dinner or diamonds. Throw caution to the wind and buy the new outfit you've been eyeing or the CD you can't live without. Or, for the less adventurous, go on a Reckers or BK shopping spree and treat yourself to all the wonders flex points can buy. 
6. Volunteer. Spend the afternoon at a home­less shelter or soup kitchen and suddenly the lack of roses on your desk will seem less signifi­cant. Or if you really need something to cuddle, play with neglected animals at a shelter or the Humane Society. It's impossible to frown with a warm puppy in your lap. 
5. Band together. Most Valentine's talk as of late has come from those embittered souls who can't wait for the 15th to arrive. So seek our these kindred spirits. Go out for coffee or pizza ·and share your stories about past V-Days. 
Rent "Romeo and Juliet" and take comfort in not being one half of a pair of star-crossed numbers. Or watch "Will and Grace" and real­ize that nothing beats a good platonic relation­ship. There's strength in numbers. 
4. Be obnoxious. When you've had it up to here with nauseating pink and red decorations. start stealing other people's Valentine fun ­eat their chocolates without permission, snatch their flowers. hang up their greeting cards as if they were your own. Wear black and glare at all, don't let your­self worry about anything school­related -just enjoy hanging out togeth­er. 

2. Make the most of South Bend. 
Valentine's Day is the perfect time to explore the native culture of our cor­ner of Indiana. Stroll around the University Park Mall together: noth­ing screams "town­ie" like wearing matching outfits or walking with your hands in each other's back pock­ets. 
Get glamour shots taken for that spe­cial someone or have your names air-brushed on T­shirts. To top it all off, a romantic day in the Bend wouldn't be com­
plete without a 
splash in one of the 
heart-shaped 

jacuzzis advertised by motels on 31 -watch 
for Valentine's specials. 
1. Just get it on. What better way to say you care? A full-blown make-out session is the per­fect gift. It requires no planning, it's absolutely free and it's what you both wanted to do any­thing. 
Plus, if you forget the big day, it's the perfect way to make up for it or pretend you did have a big surprise ready. So stop worrying about the 
perfect gift and just give a kiss. It's what this day is all about. 
But what about the Valentine's Day haters? The vast majority of col­lege students in particular are single, and many of these are vehement­ly opposed to the holiday. 
T h e s e 
Valentine 
adversaries 
are quick to 
voice what 
they hate 
about Feb. 14. 
It is a super­
ficial Hallmark 
holiday. It sin­
gles out those 
without a sig­
nificant other 
and makes 
them feel lack-
Top Ten Movies to Watch if You Hate Valentine's Day 

10...The Birds": There's nothing like seeing a pretty blond getting her eyes pecked out. 
9. "Leaving Las Vegas": Guy hates life, guy decides to drink himself to death, guy meets prostitute who tries to change his mind -an instant classic. 
8. "What Lies Beneath": Haunting, murder, infidelity ­finally someone with more baggage than your last boyfriend or girlfriend. 
7. "The Terminator": ''I'll be back" -one of the many things you never want to hear your crazy ex say. 
6. "American Pie": "Suck me beautiful!" It's comforting to know there are kids out there with worse pick-up lines than yours.
5. "Rocky": There's nothing more romantic than a guy bleeding out his eyes, screaming your name at the top of his lungs. 
4. "Silence of the Lambs": A townie once tried to ask me 
out, I ate his liver with fava beans and a nice chianti sauce. 
3. "Porky's..: The other white meat. 

2. "Sleeping with the Enemy": You can try and blame it on a drunken hookup, but we've all been there before. 
1. "What About Bob": Baby steps round the dorm room, baby steps to the dining hall, baby steps through DeBartolo, baby steps to the Boat Club. 
-compiled by Katie Malmquist 
anyone who looks remote­ly happy. Reclaim the day for your own. 
3. Hit the singles scene. 
Think of all the social opportunities that South Bend has to offer the hap­pily -u n at ­tached bars, clubs, parties, bingo halls. The possibilities are endless. 
Those who 
are of age can 
get their 
groove on at 
Heartland or 
drink their 
sorrows away 
at the 
'Backer. And 
everyone else 
can go to the 
Boat and pray 
the second 

ing. And overall, Valentine's does nothing but deliver a blow to self-esteem or disappoint those whose expectations aren't met. 
So for those without Valentines this year, do not despair. There are still many ways to enjoy the holiday, whether you choose to pamper yourself or take out your bitterness on the happy couples around you. 
10. Treat yourself to a day at the spa. You don't need someone else to tell you you're worth it -go ahead and give yourself what you deserve. Massages, facials, manicures and pedicures are available at several area beauty salons and health clubs. Once someone else is kneading your back or rubbing your feet, all that pent-up Valentine's frustration will just melt away. 
floor doesn't cave in. 

2. Break up couples. Head out to the quads and aim for couples that look to be happily involved. Blatantly hit on whichever half of the pair you prefer, acting as if they are a past hook-up that you can't believe hasn't called. 
Do not relent if they get flustered and pretend they don't recognize you -if you persist, y~u will surely cause see fireworks between the for­merly happy pair. Some may call it cruel, but if you can't beat 'em, tear 'em apart. 
1. When all else fails, realize it's only a day. 
Once 11:59 p.m. comes and goes, Valentine's Day will be over, and all the pent-up furstration with it. So grit your teeth and bear it -count down the hours and all the sappy talk will be done soon. 
SCENE ASKS 
What is the b~st Valentine's Day gift you have ever received? 

"A ceramic monkey and a bottle ofColt 45 -no joke.·· 
Rob Pazornik junior, off-campus 

':4. diamond necklace.·· 
Shana Blair sophomore, McGlinn 



':4. pair ofbikini under­wear with a heart on it that said. 'Do me.· ,. 
Terrance Howard junior, Sorin 

"The gift oflife -I was born on Valentine's Day." 
Rich Naponelli sophomore, O'Neill 



"/ got flowers from a guy I didn ·t know.·· 
Kristen Gehring freshman, Lewis 

"/ got a dozen carnations from my secret admirer. I never found out who it 
was. 

Michael Kelly freshman, Keough 


Photos by Lisa Velte 
page 16 
The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 14, 2001 
NBA 
Shaq returns to Laker lineup, dominates in victory 
Associated Press 
Shaquille O'Neal returned to the Los Angeles Lakers' lineup on Tuesday night without showing any ill effects from a two-week layoff caused by a strained arch in his right foot. 
O'Neal had 32 points. 14 rebounds, six assists and five blocks in 43 minutes in helping the Lakers to a 113-110 over­time victory over the New Jersey Nets on Tuesday night. 
"I felt pretty good," O'Neal said after playing for the first time since Jan. 26. "I was anx­ious to get back and start the second half with a vengeance, and I believe I started on a pretty good note tonight. .. 
O'Neal. who had missed six games, hit 10 of 18 shots from the field and 12 of 24 free throws. Last year's MVP also had a key block of Stephon Marbury's shot in the overtime that set up a game-tying bas­ket by Tyronn Lue. 
The block came with the Lakers trailing 110-108 with less than a minute to play. 
"Stephan got around me, but I knew Shag was there," Lue said. "Horace Grant got the rebound, kicked it out to me and there was only one person to beat." 
Hornets 77, Pacers 66 
Jamal Mashburn had 18 points and 11 rebounds to lead the Charlotte Hornets over Indiana. 
Both teams shot poorly from the field. connecting on just 34 percent of their attempts. But the Hornets outrebounded Indiana 59-41, with P.J. Brown grabbing 13 rebounds. 
Al Harrington led Indiana with 12 points and Reggie Miller had 11, just enough to move past George Gervin into 23rd place on the NBA's all­time scoring list. 
Indiana's point total and its 28 second-half points were both season-lows. 
Reserve Derrick Coleman contributed 14 points and 11 rebounds to the victory, while Baron Davis had 13. David Wesley scored 12. 
Raptors 120, Cavaliers 105 
Vince Carter scored 33 points but was sitting down when Toronto opened a big lead in the second quarter Tuesday night as the Raptors rolled to a win over the demoralized 
Cleveland Cavaliers. who lost 
their seventh straight game. 
Carter scored 16 points in the third quarter and sat out most of the fourth as the Raptors won their third in a row to move four games over .500 for the first time this sea• son. 
Suns 93, Warriors 83 
Shawn Marion had a career­high 28 points and ·13 rebounds, and Jason Kidd had 14 points and 10 assists as the Phoenix Suns beat the cold­shooting Golden State Warriors. 
Marion scored most of his points on fast breaks, free throws or offensive rebounds as the Suns capitalized on the Warriors' poor shooting and league-worst defense for an easy win. 
Marion scored seven straight points in the fourth quarter as Phoenix fed him the ball until he surpassed his career-high. 
The Suns returned from the All-Star break to split the sea­son series with Golden State and win for the third time in four games. 
They didn't need to play very well to beat the Warriors, who shot 34 percent in the first half, scored 51 points in the first three quarters and got no closer than five points after the game's opening minutes. 
Grizzlies 99, Celtics 98 
Mike Bibby scored 11 of his 25 points in the fourth quarter, helping the lame-duck Vancouver Grizzlies rally to beat the Boston Celtics. 
The Celtics led 95-90 with 
2:22 left but didn't score again until Chris Carr's 3-pointer at the buzzer. 
Bryant Reeves was also a factor for Vancouver with 24 points and 12 rebounds. 
Nuggets 96, Knlcks 77 
Nick Van Exel had 24 points and 12 assists as the Denver Nuggets returned to their home comfort zone, beating the New York Knicks. 
Antonio McDyess added 1 7 points and 11 rebounds. and Raef LaFrentz scored 21 for the Nuggets, who had lost six of seven overall but improved to 21-6 at home. 
Allan Houston had 15 points to lead four New York players in double figures. Larry Johnson had 14 and Latrell Sprewell had 10 on 3-for-14 shooting. 


Spurs 104, 
Mavericks 92 
Tim Duncan scored 28 points and reserve Antonio Daniels had 18 as the San Antonio Spurs beat the Dallas Mavericks. 
Danny Ferry made four of the Spurs' nine 3­pointers and Avery Johnson tied his season­high of 14 points in his first game in two months for San Antonio. 
Dirk Nowitzki scored 12 of his 30 points in the fourth quarter and Michael Finley had 11 of his 26 points in the final period, but the Mavericks couldn't over­come a 22-point deficit. 
Rockets 99, Wizards 89 
Steve Francis had 29 points and Hakeem Olajuwon added 15 points and a season-high 20 rebounds as the Houston Rockets beat the Washington Wizards. 
S h a n d o n Anderson added 
AFP Photo
17 points and 
Shaqullle O' Neal had 32 points In his first game with the Lakers since his

Cuttino Mobley 
Injury. O'Neal didn't play for two weeks due to a strained arch In his right
and Maurice 
foot. In his return game, the Lakers defeated the Nets 113-110.
Taylor each had 16 as the Rockets won their fourth in a row. Mercer scored 19 apiece as the back to beat the Milwaukee 
It was Olajuwon's highest Bulls blew a 17-point lead Bucks in a matchup of the top rebound total since he had 20 before rallying for a victory two teams in the Eastern on Feb. 16, 1998, against the over the Atlanta Hawks. Conference. Clippers. Richard Hamilton It was Chicago's first victory The Bucks got 28 points from scored 24, Juwan Howard since Jan. 4 -a stretch of 16 Glenn Robinson, 27 from Ray added 15, Mitch Richmond 12 games that spanned two presi­Allen and 20 from Sam Cassell and Tyrone Nesby and Popeye dencies. and led 104-99 with 1: 11 left. Jones 10 each as the Wizards In the final minute, knowing But they had eight fourth­lost their fourth straight. a victory was finally close, the quarter turnovers, blew a 
Bulls celebrated every made nine-point fourth-quarter lead Bulls 96, Hawks 92 shot and every foul they took. and failed to foul late in the 
After one month, nine days game. and 16 losses, the Chicago 76ers 107, Bucks 104 Iverson scored a second­Bulls' franchise-record losing Allen Iverson scored 49 chance basket with 56 seconds streak is over. points and the Philadelphia left and was fouled. The game 
Marcus Fizer and Ron 76ers staged a furious come• ended in 76er victory. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. ~t the Notre Dame ~ffice, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be ~repaid. .
CLASSIFIEDS 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit aJl classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
TICKETS 
NEED EITHER 1 OR 2 TIX FOR MEN'S BB OR BOSTON COLLEGE PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 246-9085. THANKS. 
LOST AND FOUND 
SIZEABLE REWARD OFFERED: For a lost gold and silver bracelet with alternating silver and gold blocks, if found please contact Rachel Phillips at 4-1492 or email 
'2tlilli'2S Z6~nd edu 
Suppressed Dead Sea Scrolls & Nag Hammadi Codices Research: www.geocities.com:80/Athens/Rho des/7031 /deadsea.html 
. 
FOR RENT 
3-5 bedroom homes close to campus 232-2595 mmmrentals@aol.com 
~BED AND BREAKFASrin private home for JPW & Graduation Weekends; 3 bdrms w/private bath in lovely neighborhood 1 Omin. from campus. 234-2626. 
NICE HOME NORTH OF ND GOOD AREA FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 277-3097 
All the good homes are not gone! 
Available 4 bedroom. Available 2 
bedroom. Dave 291-2209 !Dil.!.QS I !Di!.bia .a Q(g Rooms for rent & share home. 65­75 week includes utilities and cable. 233-4013 

CONDOS FOR RENT FOR JPW VISITORS OR OTHER SMC/ND EVENTS: Why not reserve N clos­est to ND Na fully furnished condo containing kitchen with refrigerator, microwave, disposal, dishware, laundry facility and fireplace on the comer of Ivy Rd. & Edison Ad? Available for extended stay or for weekends. Contact Unicom Management at 219-232-1242 for assistance or leave message on the reservations line 219-273-IVYND (4896) 
FOR SALE 
BRONCO II -5 spd 
$1000 obo; call 4-3472 
PERSONAL 
Suppressed Dead Sea Scrolls & 
Nag Hammadi Codices Research; www,geo!.ities,i.orn:aotAll:leaslBtJQ s:Jes/7Q:3 llaeadsea.l:ltml 
$$ Get paid for your opinions!$$ Earn $15-$125 and more per sur­vey! 
WWW,[DQ.t:)'.~i . iQ[lS.!,.Q[D 
Molly, Thanks for finding out about the FAFSA tor me. 
VALENTINES 
Jen-

MY BABY.. ALL MINE!!! 
Happy Loveday, Gooberhead 
I am madly in love with Sarah Lesley. Happy Valentine's Day Sweetheard...l love you. -your guy 
Vanessa, 

Weil, Happy Valentine's Day! You know I'll be your valentine! I'll see YOU on Friday! 
Love, 
Matt 
To my Ringo, Happy Valentine's Day!! (I love. I love.) Jet'aime, 
Your Muffin 

Happy Valentine's Day to the Triforce -Noreen, Nell and Gassie ­Love, the guy who is going to win the bet 
Renee-will you be my valentine? 
To my favorite Boston resident: 
I love you 
•Erin 

Hey Noreen, Thanks for taking me to the EA and bringing me home again! You're fantastic. 
To Erin, Christine and Colleen. 
Thanks so much for all you do. 

News woold never function without 
you. 

Hello out there to Ryan, Marie, Mini, Diane, Leah, Geeta, Connie, Amy and cathryn: Happy Valentine's Day! Thanks for the Valentine's cards, Connie and Amy. You guys are the best. :0) 
Anne Marie 

B-Two -I still love you, even with the boy . 
Wednesday, February 14, 200 I 
The Obrerver . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
YOUR LAST HOURS ... YOUR LAST CHANCE ... 
YOUR CANDIDATES' LAST PUBLIC SPEECH 
WEDNESDAY NIGHT 
I 
•

FEBRUARY 14TH 
Norton/Moscona vs.· Becker/McCord 
' 

In the last few hours of the election, tLtne , into 88.9 WSND FM 
10:00 .-11 :00 PM 
to t,ear tl1ese candidates' conversation and to determine the final candidate 
' 
' 
' 
I I I I 
I 
' 
I I 
' 
I j I 
l I 
f 
I I 
1 


page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 14, 2001 
Gretzky purchases Coyotes 
March 13 trading deadline, an He said he urged Ellman to 
Associated Press 

important period when they give himself an extra day at must decide whether to trade closing. 
Wayne Gretzky is a day away either Keith Tkachuk or "I also made it plain I'm not from returning to the NHL, this Jeremy Roenick, the scoring going to pull out if there's a time as an owner. leaders whose combined hitch," Burke said. 
Gretzky and partner Steve salaries make up one-third of Gretzky set nearly every scor­Ellman, a the team's $39 million payroll. ing record in hockey before his Phoenix Even with Gretzky added as a last game in April 1999, and developer, partner on May 26, there Ellman is banking on his popu­w e r e wasn't enough investor inter­larity to help generate interest expected est. The buyers overshot the in the team. to close on first deadline and a second one Gretzky will be the Coyotes the pur­on Dec. 31, and it took the director of hockey operations, chase of addition of Phoenix trucking with control over every aspect t h e magnate Jerry Moyes a few of the team's play and training. Phoenix weeks ago to complete the "It's exciting having the best Coyotes on package. · player in the world owning Wednes-day At that time, Ellman said he your team and being in con­and finally take control of the wanted to close the day before trol," Roenick said. "It will be team. the Feb. 15 extension ended. interesting to see what he does 
The purchase has been in the Reached at his office on and see what kind of team he works for 13 months, and the Tuesday, he declined to com­tries to build." price could reach $91 million ment. Burke plans to close In addition to deciding which with adjustments after Wednesday. high-salaried players to keep, Gretzky's group originally "I haven't heard anything one Gretzky likely will have to agreed to buy the team from way or the other, but I wouldn't choose between All-Star goalie Richard Burke for $87 million. construe that as negative at Sean Burke and free agent The closing would come a day all," Burke said. ''I've stayed Nikolai Khabibulin, who was before the third deadline out of it to make it less compli­the team's franchise goalie arrives. cated. If there were any prob­until he began a 1 1/2-year 
The new owners will take lems I probably would have holdout rather than accept $3 over four weeks before the heard, but I don't know of any." million a year from the Coyotes. 
INTERNATIONAL SERVICE 
ND/SMC/Holy Cross Students 
Are you interested in the possibility of International Service after graduation? ff so, please attend a presentation by recently returned volunteers that will give you perspectives from the following overseas progranis: 
Holy Cross Associates (Chile) Farm ofthe CLild (Honduras) Cap Corps (Nicaragua and Papua New Guinea) Irish Christian Brothers (Peru) 
Each program has a different geographic, time commitment, and ser­vice focus, but all represent faith-based, community living efforts at overseas service. 
Please join us on: Thursday, February 15, from 7:30 p.m. to 8:30 at the Center for Social Concerns. Refreshments will be served. 
http://www.nd.edu/....hcassoc/ 
NHL 
Canadiens honor Roy and end dispute 
ened wife phoned 911, but 

Associated Press 
charges later were dropped. 
When Raymond, a longtime 
The Montreal Canadiens supporter of Roy and a mem­ended their five-year feud with ber of the media section of the Patrick Roy on Tuesday night, Hockey Hall of Fame, protested honoring their former goal­he doesn't write the headlines, 
tender in a pregame ceremony. Raymond said Roy shouted 
Former teammates Benoit back: "It's your team. It's your Brunet, Patrise Brisebois and newspaper. You should check." Guy Carbonneau handed Roy a During it all, Roy wore the painting by Quebec artist same heated glare he had on Andre Lapensee. Dec. 2, 1995, when coach 
Astronaut Marc Garneau also Mario Tremblay left him in net 
was honored in the center-ice for nine goals of an 11-1 ceremony before the trouncing by the Detroit Red Canadiens' game against Roy's Wings at the Montreal Forum. Colorado Avalanche. After an earlier goal. Roy 
The tribute to Roy. which defiantly raised his arms to the drew a standing ovation from booing crowd. the Molson Centre crowd, was When Tremblay finally seen as a reconciliation of pulled him from the game, Roy 
Roy's bitter departure from the leaned over to then team presi­team in December, 1995. dent Ronald Corey behind the 
But on a day in which Roy bench and said he had played was making peace with the his last game for the Canadiens, he berated a local Canadiens. 
Four days later, Roy was
newspaper columnist. 
Hockey's winningest goal­traded to Colorado, along with tender brushed past a crowd of team captain Mike Keane, for reporters in the Avalanche Martin Rucinsky, Andrei 
Kovalenko and goaltender
dressing room Tuesday morn­
Jocelyn Thibault. Only
ing to pull aside Le Journal de 
Rucinsky remains with theMontreal writer Bertrand Canadiens, while Roy won aRaymond for some harsh 
Stanley Cup in Colorado. 
words. 
Roy was upset at a front It is still considered one of 
the worst trades in Canadienspage headline over his picture 
that said: "To Forget is to history. 
Roy. 35, played his first 10Forgive -Patrick Roy." Just 1/2 NHL seasons in Montreal,above was a smaller headline 
for an unrelated story that leading them to Stanley Cups 
in 1986 and 1993 -when heread "No Prison Term." 
won a record 10 consecutive
Apparently, Roy took the headlines as a reference to his overtime games. 
He was the most popular
being charged with domestic 
Canadien since scoring star
violence at his home in Denver Guy Lafleur in the 1970s. 
earlier this season; his fright­
==-=~=di 
IBM will be on campus March 1 and 2 to 
interview for lull time accounting positiom at 
our U.S. locations. 
* 
If you are interested in anAccountinyFinance career opport.unitv and have at least 12 credit hours in Accounting...please make time to talk with us about the excellent opportunities available. 
IBM offers competitive benefits, including flexible work weeks, casual dress, a qualitywork e:nviromnent.,. 
Resumes accepted thru Thurs 2115 IBM is an equal opportunity em player. 






page 19
Wednesday, February 14, 2001 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
HOLYCROSS: 
.. 

GROWING INTO THE 21ST CENTURY 

Vince Bernardin 


Julio Boizo, C.S.C. Brian Carpenter Jimmy Carrera Mark Coomes Steve Davidson Lou DelFra, C.S.C. John DeRlso, C.S.C. 




They answered the call. What about you? 





Joe Fagan Michael Flonth, C.S.C. Jim Gallagher GngGlerer John Glynn Mike Griffin, C.S.C. 
oN 
•. 



Brian Herlocker, C.S.C. Tom Hormann Mark HoUoway, C.S.C. 
w-ww.nd.edu/~vocation 
Al~SWER ~ THECALL '<fY 



David Halm 





Malt Kutz Patrick McGowan Brad Metz, C.S.C. 







Chris Nygren Cort Peters Joey Pietrangelo 







Kevin Sandberg Eric Schimmel, C.S.C. Andy Sebesta Matt Verttcke Neil Wack, C.S.C. Nate Wills, C.S.C. Chuck Wltschorlk, C.S.C. 


page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 14, 2001 
Associated Press 
When the Yankees open spring training Wednesday, it could be the beginning of the end of an era. 
P a u 1 O'Neill says this will be his last sea­son. 
T i n o Martinez and Scott 


B r o s i us O'Neil are in the f i n a l 
years of their contracts, as is manager Joe Torre. 
Still, there is another cham­pionship to be won, always the focus on the Yankees. 
Last October. they became just the fourth team to win three straight World Series titles. 
"I want to look back when I'm all done and say I played at the beginning of this spurt and played all the way through it," O'Neill said. "With the core of people com­ing back, this is still the team that won the championships. A couple years down the road, it might not be the same team anymore." 
Only two teams put togeth­er longer streaks: the Yankees of 1936-39 and the Yankees of 1949-53. 
The run for No. 4 -and 
the fifth in six seasons ­
begins Wednesday when 
pitchers and catchers report. 
Many of the Yankees have 
been in Florida for weeks, 
working out at New York's 
minor league complex. 
"You get excited about spring training because hope­fully one or two of our young kids could make the big league club and help the New York Yankees win," vice pres­ident of player personnel Billy Connors said. 
The most notable departure 
during the offseason was 
David Cone. 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Dodgers hope pitching
'O I may end era for Yankees 
New York offered to bring Einertson and Ed Reynoso. 
brings play-off birth
him back following a 4-14 season, but he would have had to win the No. 5 starter's job in spring training. 
Instead, he signed with Boston. 
Mike Mussina, given an $88.5 million, six-year con­tract, is the chief addition, joining Roger Clemens, Orlando Hernandez and Andy Pettitte in the rotation. 
"It's unbelievable," left fielder Shane Spencer said of the Yankees' rotation. "(Other) teams will be like, 'Who are we going to put our No. 1 against?' We have 

The everyday lineup is set, barring injuries. 
The only questions are whether second baseman Chuck Knoblauch has solved his throwing problems and whether Spencer has healed following knee surgery. 
"The elbow is good. No problems," said Knoblauch, who arrived at spring train­ing a month early. 
Spencer expects his surgi­cally repaired knee to be ready for opening day. 
''I'm doing pretty good," he said Tuesday. 'Tm doing all the little things I need to do. 
potentially four No. 

ls." "With the core ofpeople The fifth coming back. this is still 
spot is 

the team that won the 
o p e n . 

C u b a n championsips. A couple defector years down the road. it 
Adrian "El 

might not be the same
Duquecito" 

team anymore.··
Hernandez -not relat­ed to "El 
Paul O'Neil 
Duque" ­
outfielder
has looked impressive in early 

Hopefully by 

of baseball's 
the second 

better start­
ing rotations, 
week of 
spring train­

there's cause for optimism as the 
Dodgers begin spring training.
ing I'll be 
playing 

Pitchers and catchers are sched­
s o m e 

uled to report Wednesday to 
Vero Beach, Fla., with the first
games." 

workout a day later. 
W i t h 

General manager Kevin
catcher 
J o r g e 

Malone has high hopes, but 
mindful of the past, he made it
Posada com­

clear his optimism is guarded. 
ing off his 

"A lot of people have misread
best season, 

my enthusiasm and excitement."
· and Derek 

Malone said. 
Jeter and 

Two years ago, in his first sea­
Bernie 
"We believe we've improved. I think we've got the talent and we're positioned to have a very good season," Malone said. "Now, we've got to go out and perform." 
In Kevin Brown, Chan Ho Park Darren Dreifort and free-agent 
addition  Andy  Ashby,  the  
Dodgers  have  four  proven  
starters.  Brown,  Park  and  

Dreifort were a combined 43-25 last season, while others who started for Los Angeles were 11­26. 
The 33-year-old Ashby, who signed a $22.5 million, three­year contract, was 12-13 with Philadelphia and Atlanta in 2000, but pitched in the 1998 and 1999 All-Star games. 
"Our 1-2-3 starters were com­parable to any other front-line guys," Malone said. "Our objec­tive this offseason was to try and improve the pitching, and we tried to address that with the addition of Andy Ashby and bringing Ramon Martinez back." 
The 32-year-old Martinez was 10-8 with a 6.13 ERA in 27 starts with the Boston Red Sox last sea­son. He pitched for the Dodgers for nearly nine years before undergoing season-ending shoul­der surgery in June 1998. 
Martinez figures to compete with Eric Gagne, 4-6 with a 5.15 ERA last season, for the fifth starter's spot. 
"I think we're improved there, we've got more depth," Malone said. "We're just trying to return to the Dodger tradition of suc­cess, and that's with pitching, and we're going to emphasize and focus on defense. 

Associated Press 
Let the improvement continue. 
That's the Los Angeles Dodgers' mantra, and if they improve another nine games this season, as they did last 
year,  it  
might  be  
enough  for  

their first playoff berth since 1996. 
With one 
workouts and lefty Randy Keisler also figures to get a chance. 
While closer Mariano Rivera is back and left-han­der Mike Stanton returns as a setup man, right-handed setup man Jeff Nelson returned to Seattle after five seasons with the Yankees. 
Ramiro Mendoza, who missed most of last season because of shoulder prob­lems, is throwing following surgery but the Yankees like­ly will limit his innings. Lefty Allen Watson, also coming back from an injury-marred season. is not expected to be ready for opening day. 
New York has brought in a half-dozen pitchers to audi­tion for the role, a group that includes Dwight Gooden, Williams coming off typically strong seasons, the Yankees seem solid up the middle. 

"The start of spring training is exciting," Yankees director of player development Rob Thomson said. "You've had the whole winter off. You kind of go through depression the first couple weeks after the season is over. You don't have that fill of intensity and competitiveness. It's nice to get back into it." 
son with the Dodgers, he jokingly predicted a World Series appear­ance. Instead, the Dodgers went 77-85, one of baseball's biggest disappointments. 
The Dodgers improved to 86­76 last year, but it wasn't good enough to make the playoffs or, as it turned out, for manager Davey Johnson to keep his job. He's been replaced by Jim Tracy, a first-time big league manager who has baseball's highest pay­roll at his disposal. 

csc 
CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL 
CONCERNS 

Brian Boehringer, Scott SUMMER INTERNSHIP OPPORTUNITIES WITH... Kamieniecki, Darrell 
ACCION 
A MICROLENDING ORGANIZATION ASSISTING SMALL BUSINESS OWNERS WITH POOR CREDIT HISTORY TO OBTAIN LOANS TO IMPROVE AND BUIW THEIR BUSINESSES 

'T1ie colkctumfor tlie 
L'EV.X'E:M.IJl .'A.WJ 
L)JMPHO:M.Jl SOCITJY 
in memory ofour classmates 
Conor am£1Jrionne 
wiflcontinue at tfie L:AS'I''JJ.JJ..Yfor 
JPW tick.et aistri6uti.an: 
'I'O'JJ.JJ..y, 
:February 14tfi from7-1oym in La:fortune 1wom 108 
.JJ.. $2.00 donation is requestea from eacli Junior. 
Jp;reenerosity is ereat(y apyrecla;;~ 

10-12 WEEK INTERNSHIPS AVAILABLE IN: ALBUQUERQUE CHICAGO EL PASO NEW YORK CITY SANANTONIO SAND/EGO 
BENEFITS: COMPETITIVE COMPENSATION 3 COLLEGE CREDITS HOUSING PROVIDED BUSINESS EXPERIENCE 
Applications available at the Center for Social Concerns and MCOB Undergraduate Office 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: FEBRUARY 20, 2001 
INTERVIEWS FEBRUARY 21 & 22 AT THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Wednesday, February 14, 2001 page 21
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
., 
C:,~ILLE..t> ZUCCHINI • CO F 4F EE.. 
• 



-

• 
.( 
r 
~ 
~ 
V 
L'Arche, after Noah's Ark, is a worldwide network of 110 communities in 30 countries, made 
"'~ 
pl 
up of people with disabilities and those who come to share life with them. Its mission is to 
create homes where faithful relationships based on forgiveness and celebr~tion are nourished; to revel the unique value and vocation of each person; and to change society by
p) 
choosing to live in community as a sign of love and hope. 
• 
VI 
Tuesday~ t=ebr-uar,; 27~ 2()()1 
{ ~ 
f3:()()prn 
--1 
:i: 

pl. 
~acred tieart Vari~h Center
'" 
cf\

Cl) 
----0

On l)ouala§ voad 
• 
z
4t 
)>

(\ 
~ot.-e uame~ Indiana
I­
X:" 

;VI 
Lou~anni 
t-Jonorary Chairman
-<
D­
-SJl).()() per-Pel"§OO 01" Table of S: S~S().()() 1-­
6ou_.met Italian ()inner-bY Ciao
% <{ 
Vleaie reierve ¥our Place. 

. : .·,.·-j·ft,· 
...... ' 
.·• ·..

Call Ch..-i§ Miller at 631-7ltC)S 

CHICKEN CAUalAT012..E • D SSEl<..TS
• 
.. 
~-· 
, 
I 
I ·, I 
I I 
I 
' 
I I 
I 
' 
I I 
I 
I 
I 
. I I 
l 


i........___ 
---------------------------------------------------~---~--­
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 14, 2001 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
No. 4 Illini rally from deficit to defeat No. 19 Badgers 

Associated Press 
Marcus Griffin scored off an inbounds pass from Sean Harrington with 0.8 seconds left as No. 4 Illinois beat No. 19 Wisconsin 68-67 Tuesday night. 
Griffin's shot c-ame after Frank Williams rallied the Illini from a 13-point halftime deficit by scoring 18 of his 22 points in the second half. 
Williams had collided with two defenders on a short jumper with 2 seconds left. Wisconsin grabbed Williams' miss, but lost control of the rebound. 
The Illini kept the ball and Griffin barely had time to catch it five feet from the basket and toss an arching shot back in. 
Williams then intercepted the Badgers' inbounds pass with 0.6 seconds left to seal the win for Illinois (20-5, 10-2 Big Ten). 
Kirk Penney led Wisconsin (15-7, 6-5) with 18 points, including four 3-pointers. Penney made the two free throws that gave the Badgers a 67-66 lead with 9.5 seconds left. 
Brian Cook opened the game wi.th Illinois' only 3-pointer in the first half. The Illini missed six 3-pointers as Wisconsin went on a 15-3 run that lasted almost 10 minutes and ended with the Badgers leading 15-6. 
The Badgers shot 61 percent, including 6-for-9 from 3-point range, in the first half. Roy Boone and Penney made 3­pointers to end the half with Wisconsin leading 35-22. 
Fouls got the Badgers in trou­ble early in the first half, when centers Andy Kowske and Charlie Wills each got their third and sat down. Wisconsin's seventh foul came less than six minutes into the half, putting Illinois in the bonus early. 
Illinois kept driving to the bas­ket and the Badgers contested every shot. Kowske, Kelley and Wills picked up their fourth fouls and the Illini made six free throws to get within one basket, 51-48, with 7:09 remaining. 
Penney slowed the momen­tum with a 3-pointer to push the lead back to six points with 6:11 left. 
Linton made a layup and Boone stole a fumbled ball from Cory Bradford and dropped it in to put Wisconsin ahead 65-61 with 1:47 left. Cook tipped in an Illinois miss with 1 minute left. 
Boone traveled at the other end and Griffin rebounded a Willilams miss and banked it in for a 66-65 lead with 30 sec­onds left. 
Penney drove the lane and Harrington fouled him on the layup with 9.5 seconds to go. Penney made both for a 67-66 lead. 
Williams took the inbounds and drove down the middle, col­lided with two defenders and missed his shot with 2 seconds left. The ball bounced off a after Boston College closed the first half with a 15-5 run. 
Already in a situation where more than a loss or two would practically eliminate them from consideration for an at-large berth to the NCAA tournament, the Huskies responded with an 11-2 run to open the second half and were back within a point with 15:31 to play. 
Freshman Caron Butler, who finished with l 7 points and 11 rebounds, hit a floater along the baseline with 8:00 left to give the Huskies a 59-54 lead. 
With the shot clock winding down, Brown hit a 3-pointer with 5:34 left that started a 12­1 run and gave the Huskies a 71-59 lead with 2:12 to play. 
Brown made four free throws to close the run and the Huskies made six more in a row to keep the Eagles at bay and avenge the 85-68 loss on Jan. 3 that ended their 23-game winning streak in the series. 
Singletary and freshman Ryan Sidney each had 18 points for the Eagles, while Troy Bell had 
16. Bell finished 5-for-16 from the field, including 3-for-10 from 3-point range. The Eagles, who had won a school-record seven straight conference games, were 6-for-26 from beyond the arc, 2-for-13 in the second half 
No. 12 Florida 81, LSU 7 4 
Teddy Dupay scored 11 points in Florida's overtime win over LSU. 
Dupay. who had surgery for a herniated disc on Jan. 10, had just six points in regulation, but scored all but eight of Florida's 19 points in overtime. 
Udonis Haslem and Brett Nelson each scored 18 points for Florida (17-5, 7-4 Southeastern Conference). Matt Bonner added 17. 
Ronald Dupree led LSU (11­11, 1-10) with 18 points and 11 rebounds. Collis Temple III had 14 points, Jermain Williams 12, and Bright 11. 
The Gators struggled against LSU's defense and trailed most of the game. With 1:53 left in regulation, Haslem made his first free throw, pulling Florida within one point at 57-56. Haslem's second attempt bounced out and LSU's Ronald Dupree grabbed it. 
A missed shot and a foul by LSU sent Major Parker to the line for the Gators. He made one of two free throws to tie it at 57 with 51 seconds remain­ing. 
Torris Bright hit a 3-pointer to give the Tigers a 60-57 lead with 27 seconds left. Then Dupay hit a field goal and a free throw to tie it at 60. 
Jason Wilson made two free throws with 3.2 seconds remaining to give LSU 62-60 lead. Florida's ensuing inbound pass sailed the length of the court to Haslem, who was 
Badger on the rebound and fouled. He made both shots, Illinois retained possession to tying it at 62 and forcing over­set up Griffin's winner. time. 
LSU pulled within one point, 75-74, on a 3-point basket by
Connetlcut 82, 
Bright with 1:16 remaining. No. 9 Boston College 71 Dupay matched the 3-pointer 
Freshman guard Taliek and added a free throw as the Brown had a career-high 21 Gators sealed the victory. points, including a huge 3-Florida had been averaging pointer with 5 1/2 minutes to 83.3 points. LSU, the second-play, helping Conneticut snap ranked scoring defense in the 
the Eagle's win streak. SEC, had limited opponents to The Huskies {16-8, 5-6 Big 65.6 points. · East} trailed 44-34 at halftime 

The Tigers outscored Florida 8-5 over the first three minutes of the second half and stretched their lead to 10 points, 40-30. But LSU failed to score for the next 5:47 and the Gators cut the lead to two points, 43-41, on a 3-pointer by Bonner. 
Florida used a 7-5 run to tied the game at 48 with 9:09 left. The run was fueled by five points from Bonner. 
Florida, battling for the SEC East title, had the lead only once in regula~ion -11-10 at the 14:26 mark in the first half. LSU led 27-19 with 5:28 left in the first half. 
Y<JJJR 
VALENTINE'S 
CANDY 
Slightly different music, because you're slightly different. 

California 
Push 
~ 
~,--------­
Join Replay: 
The club that rewards your love of entertainment... 
Ask associate for details. 

Injury Loves Melody 
Been A Long Time 

MEDI 
PLAY~ 
Your Entertainment Superstore For the store nearest you, call toll-free 1-888-60-MEDIA. 
Sale ends Feb. 24, 2001, 
Cassettes available on select titles. 

~,!:,~~~i~1~1.~eo~:. 
may vary by store and online. 
We Buy& Sell Used CDs! 
Check out our qreot selection. 

Monday, February 12, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
ByTIMCASEY 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Although it appears Joker Phillips will be named an assis­tant, the Irish still must fill two other coaching vacancies. Former safeties coach Lou West is now the defensive coordinator at Toledo. 
And on Monday, cornerbacks coach Jerry Rosburg bolted to the National Football League. Rosburg was named as the spe­cial teams coach for the Cleveland Browns. 
During the 2000 season, Rosburg coached a punt return unit that ranked 12th in the nation and blocked six punts. 
"He was a mastermind at the whole special teams thing," said cornerback Jason Beckstrom, who also played on the kickoff, punt and punt return teams. "That was really his big deal. He came in and just totally changed 
FOOTBALL 
NFL 
Irish lose Rosburg to Browns 
Tempe chosen as 
the special teams and made part ofour program." 
new stadium site 
Phillips 
continued from page 28 
assistant but sources at Minnesota confirmed that he has been offered the position. 
"It's pretty much a done deal." an employee in Minnesota'.s media relations department said. 
Officials in Notre Dame's sports information depart­ment declined comment. 
everything more aggressive. Rosburg flew to Cleveland Obviously it worked." early last night and was unavail­Rosburg arrived in 1999 after able for comment. 
spending the two previous sea­

sons as Boston  •  
College's sec­ 
ondary coach.  "I'm sad about him  
He also coached at Northern  leaving. I really got to know him and think high­ 
Michigan,  ly ofhim as a coach.. ••  
Western  
Michigan,  
Cincinnati and  Jason Beckstrom  
Minnesota.  special teams player  

In Cleve­land, Rosburg will join the staff of head coach Butch Davis, the former University of Miami coach. 
"I'm sad about him leaving," Beckstrom said. "I really got to know him and think highly of him as a coach. He helped me develop as a player as far as technique and he really knew the defense well. He was a big 
Urban Meyer, Notre Dame's wide receivers coach for the past five years, left after the Fiesta Bowl to take over as head coach at Bowling Green. It is believed that Phillips will assume Meyer's duties. 
Phillips, a four-year letter­winner at wide receiver, graduated from the University of Kentucky in. 1986 and played sparingly for the Washington Redskins and the Canadian Football League's Toronto Argonauts. 

Associated Press 
Notes: 

The new stadium for the
N i n e 

Arizona Cardinals will be built
seniors will 

in Tempe, just a mile from
apply for a 

where the team now plays.
fifth year of 

The Arizona Tourism and
eligibility. 

Sports Authority board voted
T h e y 

7-2 Tuesday to choose the
include: full­

Tempe site over an undevel­
back Jason 

oped tract of land in suburban
Murray, 

west Phoenix. 
offensive 

The stadium, with a
linemen Kurt 

retractable roof and natural 
evant to me. 
"Prior to that time the west side had John Long as a finan­cial partner and had a better financial package." 
The Cardinals also signed a deal with Tempe on Monday that gives the team develop­ment rights on land near the stadium. The Fiesta Bowl also strongly endorsed the Tempe site. 
"The Fiesta Bowl and the Cardinals have a long relation­ship with the city of Tempe and I think it's a great site," said Michael Bidwill, Cardinals vice president, general counsel and son of owner William Bidwill. 
· "It's right on the lakeside," he said. "It's going to be adja­cent to the Mill Avenue enter­tainment. shopping and restaurant district. It's going to be on the light rail line. There are a lot of real positives to this site." 
Backers cited Tempe's expe­rience in handling big events and a location close to hotels, restaurants and resorts. Those amenities would make it easi­er to use the stadium for things other than football games. 
"If it was just a football sta­dium I would definitely go for the west side." board member 
C.A. Howlett said. "But with the multipurpose factor I just couldn't get past those obsta­cles for the west side." 

Board member Rod Williams, one of the two dis­senters, detailed a long list of concerns about the Tempe site. 
The stadium was authorized 
by county voters last 
November. Virtually all the 
public money will come from a 
hotel-motel tax and a sur­
charge of rental cars. 

The stadium cost has risen from $331 million to $334 mil­lion with Tempe promising the extra $3 million to cover costs associated with a bedrock problem at the site. 

Vallers, John Teasdale, Casey Robin and J.W. Jordan, defen­sive linemen Grant Irons and Andy Wisne, and defensive backs Justin Smith and Ron Israel. 
. The first of 15 spring prac­tices will be held on March 27. The annual Blue-Gold Game will take place on April 28. 
grass field that would slide out of the structure when not in use, is to open for the 2004 season. 
The Cardinals, an original NFL member with a long his­tory of mediocrity or worse, have played at Sun Devil Stadium on the Arizona State campus since moving from St. Louis 13 years ago. 
Although no threats were made, there was a widespread belief the team would have left town if the stadium vote had failed last November. 
An $18 million pledge to Tempe by the Cardinals Ill.st Thursday may have been the deciding factor in the board's decision. The Fiesta Bowl also strongly endorsed the Tempe site. 
"I think it was the financial package and the relationship we had with the Cardinals and the Fiesta Bowl to start with," Tempe Mayor Neil Giuliano said. 
The Cardinals' late pledge 
allowed Tempe to secure an 
88-year lease of the land from 
He served as a graduate assistant at Kentucky in 1989 and 1990 and then became an assistant recruiting coordina­tor in 1990. He coached Kentucky's receivers from 1991-96 before heading to Cincinnati where he was wide receivers coach in 1997 and defensive backs coach in 1998. 
"He's a real good receivers coach," Jones said. "He knows his stuff. That's for 
.. 

sure. 
the Salt River Project, one of
00 YOU LIKE SPORTS? 

two major electric utilities 
KIDS? 

serving the Phoenix area. The 
00 YOU WANT TO GET PAID 

west side proposal included a promise by 80-year-old devel­oper John Long to donate 40 
AND 
EARN 3 CREDITS? 
acres of land. 

"The fact that it was from the Cardinals really wasn't rel­evant to me," authority board chairman Jim Grogan said. "The fact that Tempe found a financial partner was very rel-

Does your business need an 
National Youth Sports Program Sponsored by the NCAA 

_,::it)
A program of athletics and enrichment f'or economically disadvantaged children Crom the Sou.th Bend area. in today's e-marketplace? Training dates: June 18 -22 Program dates: June 25 -July 27 Put your business on the web quick and easy with
• 
Housing provided on campus 

• 
Three meals per day 




Steamtunnels.net ! 
• 
Salary ofapproximately $1,200 

• 
Three elective credits 



Get noticed by millions of potential customers with web aduertising on
Applications available at the 
Center for Social Concerns 

Ste amtu n n e Is.net, 
today's most successful online
Application deadline: I<'ebruary 19 
college magazine. 
For additional information, call 63 1-6614. 
• 

page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 14, 2001 
BASKETBALL 
Riley, Murphy receive honors in Big East, nationally 

ing, career-best 23.2 points per

. Murphy, Riley . Murphy named 
game. He is second on the team among Naismith in rebounding with a 9. 3 Big-East player of 
Awards finalists · rebounding average and leads the week for fourth the team with 10 double-dou­
time this season
bles.

Special to the Observer 
Murphy, who has scored in 

Notre Dame All-Americans double figures in 84 of 85 Special to the Observer Troy Murphy and Ruth Riley games during his career, is one are among the 15 male and of only two players in the histo­
Notre Dame forward Troy
female finalists for the Atlanta ry of the Notre Dame men's Murphy has been named the BigTipoff Club Naismith College basketball program to score East Player of the Week. 
Basketball Player of the Year more than 1,800 points and This award is the fourth timeAwards. grab more than 800 rebounds 
this season that Murphy has
843.
The Naismith Board of 

received player of the week hon­
Selectors, which includes some Riley, also a first-team All­of the country's leading basket­American as a senior, leads the ors. 
The 6-11 junior shares the
ball coaches, journalists, top-ranked Irish in scoring and 
honor this week with Rutgers
administrators, began the selec­rebounding and has been sophomore guard Todd Billet. 
tion process in the fall. The win­named Big East player of the Murphy averaged 24.3 pointsweek on four occasions this sea­ners of the Naismith Awards, and 10.5 rebounds in leading thethe most prestigious awards in son -more than any other Big 
Irish to a 2-0 week with wins
college basketball, will be hon­East player. She has recorded over St. John's (83-73) at homeored in Atlanta in April. double-doubles in three consec­and West Virginia (69-66) on theMurphy was one of four Big utive games and in seven games road.
East male players to the final total this season. She has scored 
He posted double-doubles in
list of 15 -Troy Bell of Boston at least 20 points in eight of the 
both contests as he scored 34
College, Michael Bradley of last 12 games. 
points and grabbed 11 reboundsVillanova and Eddie Griffin of According to the most recent against the Red Storm.
Seton Hall were the other three. NCAA statistics, Riley is the only Murphy then followed that per­Riley was joined on the final player in the country among the formance with his 42nd careerballot by two players from top 20 leaders in blocks and 
double-double as he tallied 15Connecticut Svetlana field-goal percentage. Riley 
points and hauled in 10 reboundsAbrosimova and Shea Ralph. enters the week two free throws versus the Mountaineers.
Abrosimova, however. will from breaking the Notre Dame 

Murphy has won the league's
miss the rest of the year with an record for career free throws ­
player-of-the-week honors 1 0 
injury. 447, which is held by Beth times in his career.
Murphy, a first-team consen­Morgan -and needs just two 

As a freshman, he claimed 
sus All-American as a sopho­rebounds to become the third rookie-of-the-week accolades on more, ranks third nationally in Irish player to reach the 900­eight occasions. 
scoring, averaging a team-lead-rebound milestone. 

I,' 
Thursday, February 15 

) ) 
I: 
. ! 
:J 
: t 
: I { I 
. i 
( i
~ 
( 
= 
Q. C'D 
Q. C 



...... 
l 
u, 
C 
er 


THE BEST OF 
ACOUSTIC CAFE 
Geoff Rahie Luke Mueller Vince o•conner Dave Hunt Nick Faleris 
a Sophomore Literary Festival event 


Wednesday, February 14, 2001 page 25
The Observer . SPORTS 
Mike Brey will likely turn to seven of eight games within sophomore Jere Macura and the conference to take a two­freshman Torrian Jones to game lead for the division title. continued from page 28 pick up a few extra minutes so Facing Rutgers is always a the starters can get a bit of challenge for Murphy, a New counts." rest. Jersey native. He exploded 
While a win tonight is cer­"Depth can be very overrat­against his instate rival for a tainly a goal for the 16-5 Irish, ed," Brey said last week before career-high 37 points on Jan. they may be able to accom­Humphrey's injury. "There's 6, and a repeat performance plish that feat even without something about getting a would likely allow him and the Humphrey's services. Although nucleus of guys to play with Irish to go home with an the 6-foot-8 junior scores 15 each other." eighth straight win. Murphy points and pulls down 9 .4 That's been true with a six­will have to overcome a hostile rebounds per game, Rutgers is person nucleus, as the Irish crowd to do that. however. only 10-11 overall and 2-8 in are on a seven-game roll. "[When people say things], the Big East, just the reverse Whether it works with five will he kind of laughs at them 
· of Notre Dame's 8-2 league become clear tonight. instead of saying, 'Let's record. So if Humphrey's ankle Although Rutgers is at the answer it,'" Brey said last is tender, the Irish might bottom of the Big East West week. "He's a lightning rod for decide to rest him up for the Division and Notre Dame all of us." stretch run rather than risk perches in first place, the Aside from Murphy, who aggravating the injury. Scarlet Knights have won two leads the league in points per 
"I want to play," Humphrey in a row. They beat the Seton game, Ingelsby tops the Big said, "but I have to be smart Hall Pirates on the road, a East in assist-to-turnover about it, because it's a long place the Irish lost, and defeat­ratio, with Carroll not far season." ed Pittsburgh by 20. behind. Graves is the third­
If Humphrey does not play, Guard Todd Billet shared Big leading scorer, with Swanagan the starting lineup will include East Player of the Week honors counted on to rebound. forwards Harold Swanagan with Murphy this past week. For the Scarlet Knights, for­and All-American Troy Billet scored 26 in his team's wards Jeff Greer and Rashod Murphy, guard/forward David win over Pittsburgh. Kent complement Billet's Graves, guard Matt Carroll and In the first Irish-Scarlet attack. point guard Martin lngelsby. Knights matchup this season, "You have to go in and 
With those five used to play­the Irish won 87-80 for their fight," lngelsby said, "or any­ing long minutes even with first league win of the season. one can beat you on any given 
Injury 
Humphrey in tow, Irish coach Since then. the Irish have won day." 

.. . .• : : • ­
..• :• Sacred Heart Parish Center has rooms available for your parents.
• Weekend cost is $60.00 per parent. 

Whether you stay.two, three, or four nights. Rooms are available Thursday through Sunday.
... .• : : • • • 
For reservations, call 219-631-7512

.• ..• • ::• 

? 
I 


? 

I
' 

Enter Notre Dame's Inaugural Business Plan Competition 
• HURRY the registrati_on deadline is 2/16/01 
and the business plan submission deadline is 3/19/01. 
• 
Compete to win agrand prize of cash and in-kind services totaling up to $20,000. 

• 
All full-time ND students and ND alumni are eligible to participate. 

• 
Each registered participant will receive aFREE copy of Business Plan Pro software. 


For more information visit the Gigot Center for Entrepreneurial Studies in Room 234 Mendoza College of Business, e-mail the Gigot Center at entrep.entrep.1@nd.edu, or visit our Web site at www.nd.edu---entrep. 

DUFFY MARIE·ARNOULTTEASE/The Observer 

Humphrey reaches for a pass during an Irish victory over St. John's. Humphrey is questionable for play tonight. 
.. ¦ ---¦ --¦ --¦ ¦ • :,
• Attention SMC Classes of 2002, 2003, and 2004 • 
• IClass Elections are Here! ! 
•I Ifyou are interested in being a student leader, I ¦ planning class events, and having fun then, attend ¦I one ofthe following I 
¦ MANOA;TORY Informational1 Meetings I ¦ • Wed. Feb. 14th and Thurs. Feb. 15th •
1
I Chame1eon Rootn in Haggar @ 
•

• 6:30Ptn 
•

I I 
I 
¦ you need a ticket offour to run. Only one ¦ member ofthe ticket needs to attend but all are I strongly encouraged. You do not ~ve to declare ¦ candidacy at the meetmg. • 
I I
Any questions contact Nickey Prezioso @ x5235 or ¦ prez2l77@saintmarys.edu • 
I I
GOBEILESfft • 
¦ 
. .J

L. • ¦ ¦ • 


______,,,,,,, 
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 14, 2001 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Belles need win to advance in tournament standings 
after she aggravated a concus­ByKATIE McVOY sion during Saturday's contest. 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Besides Matha, however, the 
team is healthy. 
With a playoff seed hanging "We're past the illnesses." in the balance, the Belles are Smith said. "Being the end of looking to put out the Bulldogs the season there are some nag­of Adrian College. Saint Mary's ging injuries, but, for the most is coming off a victory over part, everybody is pretty Olivet College and a win tonight _healthy." would move the team one step The Belles offense will be closer to a bet-playing hard ter MIM play­again tonight 
off spot. ..We ·ve put ourselves in a following"We've put 
great opportunity now to Saturday's 
ourselves in a aggressive
move up in the 
great opportu­win and look­nity now to tournament." ing for Adrian move up in the to mix it up on 
tournament," defense. The
Suzanne Smith
head coach Bulldogs usu­
head coach
Suzanne Smith ally begin said. "We their defen­know we can sive attack get this win and we played two with a 2-2-1 press and then fall great games last week." back to a zone. The Belles are 
Currently, the Belles (7-14, 2-looking to break that defense 10 in the MIAA) are tied with by scoring first and scoring the Bulldogs (8-14, 2-10 in the early. MIAA) for last place in the "[We] want to look to score MIM. When playoffs begin late right away." Smith said. next week, the team in last "[We'll] get them to come out of place will have to take on No. 1 those defenses and make them ranked Hope College. If Saint come man-on-man. where we Mary's can get out of that last can really get into our half place slot, however, it will face court offense." Alma College instead. The defense will have to keep 
"We won't know 100 percent its eye on Sarah Vincke, 
until everything is done Adrian's leading scorer. Vincke Saturday," Smith said. "Instead currently holds the top four of playing Hope we could move spots for most points in a game up and play Alma who we've with 35, 34. 31 and 31. She played two really tough games also holds the MIM record for against and we would love that most 3-pointers in a single opportunity." game with nine. 

KRISTINE KM.VThe Observer
A win over Adrian is an "We'll definitely key on 

Katie MIiier, shown above, Is one of the young players who will start in Saint Mary's game
important part of Saint Mary's [Vincke] and keep someone in 

against Albion on Wednesday. The Belles need the win for a better spot in the MIAA playoffs. 
move towards that matchup. her face," Smith said. "We'll 




Adrian took home the W the switch it up to keep someone 
last time these two teams faced fresh on her." 
off at Angela Athletic Facility. In addition to keeping on eye 
On the road, however, Smith on Vincke, the Belles will have 
and her team are looking for to control sophomore post play­
success. er Allison Keebaugh and junior 
"I always think we play a lit­Annie Morton, who joined 

I I 
tle better on the road," Smith Vincke as leading scorers dur­said. ing the teams' last meeting. 
As of Tuesday night's prac­Smith is confident her team will tice, post players Kelly Roberts keep control. and Anne Blair will be joining "Our post defense has really guards Julie Norman, Katie picked up," Smith said. "I think Christiansen and Mary [the team] is ready again." Campione in the starting posi­Tip-off is at 7:30 p.m. at the tions. Sophomore Kristen Merillat Sport and Fitness 





3rd Annual Justin Brumbaugh Memorial 
3 on 3 Basketball Tournament 
To Benefit Habitat for Humanity 
February 25, 200 I At Stepan Center 
Men's and Women's "A" and "B" Divisions Trophies and T-Shirts to Division Champs Prizes to best team names and best uniforms in each division Get ready for Bookstore! Up to four members per team $ I 5 donation per team (Checks payable to Knott Hall) 
Entry Deadline: February 21st 
Sign Up Online: www.nd.edu/-knott 
For more info contact Ben Gilfillan (4-4955) bgilfill@nd.edu Brian Price (4-4758) price.5 l@nd.edu 
Matha will be sitting out again Center at Adrian College. 


l I 
{ 

Francesco's Welcomes all Valentines on Valentine's Day! 

SPECIALIZING IN ITALIAN CUISINE Southern Italian Cooking at Its Finest ~~ Prepared by Francesco and Family ~~ ~ An Authentic Taste of Italy ~ Most Homantic Place in South Bend and Mishawaka 
Hours: Mon.-Tlmrs  4:00-10:00 p.m.  1213 Lincolnwuy West  
Fl'i.&Sat.  4:00-11:00 p.m.  Mishawalw.  
Sun.  4::30-7:00 p.m.  (Fnrn,·est·o 1nu c-l1efttt NI> for 30 yet1rs)  


e 
CROSSWORD  
ACROSS  28 Eskimo hot dog  63 Salad green  
1 British sex  topping?  64 Remove errors  
symbol Diana 5 Tortilla, to a  33 Have hands-on experience?  from 66 Eskimo street?  
burrito  37 Tram filler  68 Mississippi's  
9 Food often cut in eighths 14 Plimpton book subtitled "An  38 Suppress 39 More than suggest 40 Waits on  _State University 69 Vogue competitor  
American Biography"  43 Sight from the crow's-nest  70 Designer Gucci 71 "The sweetest  
15 Good sign? 16 "Up the creek," e.g. 17 Eskimo  44 Maggie's mate, in the comics 46 "Well, lah-di­"  gift of heaven": Virgil 72 Critic Rex 73 Look of a wolf  
prospector?  47 Cows and sows  
191,000 kilograms  48 Eskimo  DOWN  
20 Like some  words of  1 Joltless joe  
coffee orders 21 Feeling of pain 23 Dark time for  enlightenment? 52 Attire worn with sandals  2 Two-time batting champ Lefty 3 Lunar valley  
poets  53 Was of use  4 Roomy vehicle  
24 Defatted, as a  58 Wanted-poster  5 Impassioned  
whale  letters  6 Showed  
26 Not quite yet  61 Hang  7 Pub potables  
8 Way in  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  9 Casino honcho  
..,..,.......,.....,,,,,..  10 Swearing-in words  PuzzJe by Fred Ptacop  
...........,......,,,.. ~~~ __,.......,""'4  11 Fans' publication, for short 12 Defense type 13 "You said it!" 18 Junk drawer abbr. 22 "_takers?" 25 Calamitous 27 Epitome of  31 Dunce cap shape 32Winds up 33 Honshu peak 34 Grid great Dickerson 35 Like zabaglione 36 Kosher 41 Andrews or Carvey  54 Worth a ten 55 Fine cotton thread 56 Give the slip to 57 Furnishings 58 Throws in Answers to any three  59 Boat's backbone 60 Fully qualified 62 Loser in 1996 65 Western Amerind 67 Pamplona cry clues in this puzzle  



Wednesday, February 14, 200 I 
The Observer . TODAY 

FOURTH AND INCHES 
TOM KEELEY 
( VALENTINE'S DAY 
J l
( GIRLS 
WHOA! WHOAI WHOAI 
MAKE SURE THE
YOU'RE 60ING TO GIVE 
MESSAGE ON THE
HIM A "MY MAN"? I'D 
INSIDE IS GOOI>. 

PLAY IT SAFE ANb STICK 
IT'S THE MOST 
WITH A "BE MINE" 
IMPORTANT PART 

Fox TROT 
AMA! I CUT

I'LL CHOP 
CARROTS 
Off MY FINGER! 
FoR THE SALAD. 
CN.L 9 -l -1.' 
CHOP! 
I
\ CHOP! CHOP! 
,.. "'\
CHOP! CHOP! CHOP! CHOP! 
eJ CHOP! 
Q 
{,,PC 

BILL AMEND 
I REALIZE IT'D BE MORE 
CoNVINCING W\TH KETCHUP, 
How coME l 

8UT I'M SAVIN& THAT FoR 
ALWAYS HAVE WHEN I &RATE ___ f 

To <:,o SET THE CHEESE. i THE TABLE?! 
\ ---­
(;;:~ ' 
page 27 
TYLER
THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 
Loo~ w"'4+ 1'1\~ bo'dfr,t.nd sot ML 

M\J bo13fnwcl 
......
'30+ f"\e. .f\owe.r5.

\ ,----.t,oo, d,cln•-r "~ ) nou>~ou 
~do. 
~fne.nd, 
Uhh .. ,
s 
I 

be¥. ~Ou 
:rnud o.. do-ie.n ro1>c.~ delwtrt.d -tt, A f"I~ dorM, r.ou, !
'-.. 
toughness 42 Cleared of snow are available by touch-tone phone:29 Three-time U.S. 

45 Temporary fix 1-900-420-5656 (~ per minute).
Open winner Ivan 49 Ripen Annual subscriptions are available for the ~~~:""t 30 Zion National 50 Cavalry member best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 Park home 51 linker Bell prop years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
...
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name Address -------------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
""' 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON be patient and don't be insensi­
THIS DAY: Jack Benny, Hugh tive to their moods. Avoid creat­
Downs, Gregory Hines, Florence ing melodramas. 00 
Henderson, Meg Tilly, Drew VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
Bledsoe Relatives will give you some 
Happy Birthday: This will be sound advice if you are willing 
an exciting year for you. Your to share your troubles with 
interests will grow, and your par­them. Things will not be as bad 
ticipation in different organiza­as you first thought. 0000 
tions and events will fill your LIBRA (Sept 23-0ct. 22): You 
datebook. Your sincere manner will be taken advantage of if you 
will help you establish a position don't pay close attention to your 
among your peers and col­investments. Don't let anyone 
leagues, earning you popularity talk you into lending money or 
and a good reputation. Your your belongings. 000 
numbers:9, 13, 16,20,33,41 SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You will be emotional, which 
You may feel limited due to could lead to problems in dealing 
your responsibilities. Don't with your mate. Don't let jealousy 
spend more than you can afford come between you and the one 
on entertainment or luxury youlove.00 
items. You must stick to your SAGIITARIUS (Nolt 22-Dec. 21): 
budget. 000 You will have to stay out of other 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): people's private affairs even if 
You need to spend time with they do try to involve you. Don't 
your partner. Trips, social events reveal your secrets, and you 
or just an evening alone would won't have any reason to worry. 
be appropriate. Look into join­You will have problems with 
ing organizations that will bring authority figures iJ you bend the 
you in contact with prestigious rules. 000 
people. 000 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You need to get out and mingle. You can accomplish a lot if you You must look to those you trust present your ideas to superiors. for sound advice about your per­You need to feel confident about sonal situation. You will have yourself and .Y.o~r work. Don't trouble justifying spending let anyone cntioze you unwar­money.0000 rantably. Stick up for your beliefs AQUARWS (Jan. .20-Feb. 18): and your ideals. 000 Don't let someone lead you 
CANCER Qune 21-July 22): down the garden path. You You will finally be able to get must dig deep if you want to your hobbies off the ground. Get find out the whole truth. You children involved if they show can accomplish the most if you an interest. You need to do more concentrate on your career. 00 together as a family. You can PISCES (Feb. 19•March 20}: make favorable changes to your You need to find time to do some residence. Consider a games reading. The knowledge you room.00000 pick up will be important in the 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You future. Look into new philoso­will have problems with the phies that appear to 6e more women in your household. Try to suited to your needs. 0000 ...... 
Birthday Baby: You are emotional, determined and ready to stand up for your beliefs. You have a strong need to be a crusader and will never back down from anything or anyone. You are always quick to do what you feel is necessary. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenia.la.st.com, astromate.com.) C 2001 Universal Press Syndicate 

··----------------------------------------­
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Following a week of rest, the No. 1­ranked Irish women's basketball team heads into its toughest stretch of the season this weekend, starting tonight when they travel to Syracuse to take on the Orangewoman. 
Notre Dame (22-0, 11-0 in the Big East) looks to improve its play with only five regular season games remaining. Last Wednesday, coach 

' 
' ' < Muffet McGraw's team struggled both ) offensively and defensively in a 72-58 
t I \ 
home victory over Pitt. · "We really need to buckle down 

and do what we need to do and not I just go out there and play well I enough to win," said power forward
I , 
I Kelley Siemon. "We need to go out
I 
I there and play our game. It's
I I 
February already, March is around the corner." 
McGraw attributes her team's lack­luster play against Pittsburgh to a shortage of practice time with all five of her starters on the floor. 


"I think our problem has been that Kelley has missed a lot of time at practice," McGraw said. "We're try­ing to rest Ruth a little bit. We're try­ing to play different combinations." 
"This is what most teams went through back in November and 

l 
December. We're still trying to find those combinations. The last coupleI of days our goal has been to play the together starters a little bit longer." 
( I Following difficult practices on Friday and Saturday and a weekend off, the team now feels that those
1f 
i 1 combinations are back in the mode ; I that led this team to No. 1. I "We had a great practice yesterday 
and I think we're really ready for this week," Siemon said. "Defense is what 

I 
we have to start working on a little bit 

I I l 
: ! ! ~ 
I ; I • FOOTBALL 
I 
I I 
Belles look to plant seed 
The Saint Mary's basketball team looks to improve its playoffseed by defeating league competitor Adrian tonight on the road. 
pages 26 

page 28. AIHE
vnSERVER 

Wednesday, February 14, 2001 


WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish need to buckle down, win against Orangewomen 
I 
f • 
Phillips heads for Notre Dame 
i f 
I 

.... By TIM CASETY 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Joker Phillips, the University of Minnesota's wide receivers coach for the past two seasons, will likely join the Irish staff sometime this week. 
"He's on his way [to Notre Dame]," an employee in the Minnesota football office told The Observer on Tuesday. "He's not with us [Minnesota] anymore." 


According to Elvin Jones, more and we have been doing that." 
The Orangewomen ( 10-1 i. 4-7 in the Big East) are coming off a 75-51 loss at conference rival Villanova on Saturday. Senior Leigh Aziz led Syracuse with 15 points and 12 rebounds. 
Forward Beth Record leads Syracuse in scoring with 13.1 points per game. Paula Moore and Julie McBride come off the bench to score 11 and 9 points per game, respective­ly. 
"They've got a couple of good shooters," said Irish All-American center Ruth Riley. "Their post players are pretty accurate as well. We just have to go in there and play the whole game." 
Despite their record. Syracuse has proven to be a tough opponent on their home court. The Orangewomen are 5-3 this season at Manley Field House, including a close 76-63 loss to No. 3 Connecticut. 
"Syracuse is a great team at home," McGraw said. "They gave Connecticut a great game. They're a very, very capable team and we really need to go in there ready to play." 
Siemon, who has been playing with a fractured hand for a month now, feels that the injury is coming along nicely. 
"It's just now really starting to get better," Siemon said. "We played last Wednesday and usually I'd have to take a day off because it's so sore. But now it's so much better I prac­ticed on Thursday." 
With Siemon spending more time on the practice floor with her fellow starters, the Irish have begun to recapture the offensive flair that has generated 11 consecutive road victo­ries. 
"I saw [Monday] sparks of what we had going for a while there," McGraw said. "I think that we'll be ready." 

a junior receiver at Minnesota, Phillips in­formed "around five" receivers on Sunday after­no on that he would be heading 
to Notre See Also 
Dame. 
T h e "Irish lose Rosburg receivers to Browns" and their c o a c h page 12 
met in Ron Johnson's [Minnesota's top receiver in 2000] dorm room. 
"He had trouble telling 

us," Jones said. "He obvi­ously wanted to tell us him­self rather than to have us read about it or hear it from someone else. I respect him for that. A lot of coaches, the way they do it, they just pack up and leave and the players don't know about it until he's gone. It was nice to see that he took time out to let us know [that he was leaving]." 
Phillips has not been offi­cially announced as an 
see PHILLIPS/page 23 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish focused on win, not Humphrey's injury 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Associate Sports Editor 

The Irish will find out just how far a short bench can go tonight against the Rutgers Scarlet Knights. 
. The No. 14 Irish normally use a six-man .rotation, one which may need a few adjustments with starting power forward Ryan Humphrey nursing a sprained ankle. Humphrey sprained his ankle in the final minute of Sunday's win over West Virginia, and is question­able for tonight's conference road match. 
"It's swollen and it's sore," Humphrey said Monday after visiting the doctor. 'Tm going to play it by ear. We're in the stretch now where each win 
see INJURYpage 25 
Swimming

at Syracuse . at Rutgers 
at Big East Championships
SPORTS 

Tonight, 7 p.m. Tonight, 9 p.m. 
Thursday -Saturday
ATA 


at Adrian 
at Michigan State 
at Michigan Tonight, 7:30 p.m. Thursday, 4 p.m. Friday, 7:35 p.m.
GLANCE 









