
And the winner is ... 
Making beautiful music 
"Gladiator" ran away with Best Picture. Find 
Check out a look at the upcoming Notre JJame 

Monday
out who else stole the show at the 73rd 
Opera presentation ofHandel's Xerxes. 
annual Oscars. 
MARCH 26, 
News . page 9 
Scene . page 12-13 
2001 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 109 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
'Real World' housemate shares stories 


ND's first science 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News Fdiror 
'The Real World" is nice, but Matt Smith would just as soon use live appearances ­not television -to convey his message. 
Not that television hasn't been good to Smith, a former star of MTV's "Real World" New Orleans cast. It's just that a stand-up chat like his talk Friday in Notre Dame's Hesburgh Library Auditorium allow him to communicate the ... well, real story. 
The inside scoop: He's a self-confessed in­your-face punk who, since leaving the popu­lar show about seven strangers picked to live together, has used his MTV-initiated fame to parlay his way into lecture circuits and guest spots across the country. 
Don't misunderstand. He's no sell-out; his faith is his topic of choice. . 
"I'm just the most obnoxious, irritating punk," Smith, a Georgia native. said Friday to an audience that filled the library auditori­um to overfio,.,ving. 'Tm so cocky about my faith because it's so real to me." · 
Really. 
Smith's appearance was part of the No Greater Love project sponsored by Campus Ministries. The self-proclaimed national "spokes-pimp" for Life Teen, a U.S. Catholic youth organization, Smith told a rapt crowd Friday that his Catholic values have been a fundamental part of his life -pre-and post­"Real World." 
"There is no greater love than when you are giving everything you have to God," he said, alluding to the appearance's theme. "It took me 21 years to realize that, and ever since I have my life has never been the same." 
In a quasi-stand-up comedy routine that saw Smith inhale allergy medication with his 
see SMITH/page 6 

RHA elects new leadership 

By KATIE KELLEHER 
News Wrirer 
Juniors Kathleen Nickson and Katrina Weibel were elected president and vice president of the Resident Hall Association for the 2001-2002 school year by the Saint Mary's Student Body. 
The ticket was uncontested, and only 100 students voted 
Thursday in elections hdd 
"RHA is important 
on campus. 
because ... we unite the 
"It was disappointing that no one else was inter­residence halls and bring ested in running," said 
people together. " 
Nickson, "but we were 
relieved, because we think 
we'll do a good job." Kathleen Nickson 
Nickson and Weibel RHA president-elect
have many ideas for new activities. Plans include a dance marathon to raise money for chari­ties, a ride board to assist students who need help with transportation and a cam­pus wide service project each semester. 
"We want to make changes," said Nickson, "like more participation in hall councils, which we think can be achieved." 
Both women will enter office with much experience and background knowledge in RHA. 
Nickson has been on RHA in the past when she served as vice president of McCandless Hall last year and vice presi­dent of LeMans Hall this year. 
Weibel joined RHA this year as secre­tary, which involved taking minutes at the meetings and overseeing RHA commit­tees. 
Current RHA president, senior Mindy 
Rennaker, has a lot of confidence in the women who will take over in April. 
"They are a very qualified ticket," said Rennaker. "They both have. a lot of good experience and they've seen how it works." 
RHA members plan 

Little Sibs weekend and the All School Formal each year. The goal of the Board is to make living on campus more fun and more of a community environment for students. 
"RHA is important because we provide a lot of activities for students on campus," said Nickson. "We unite the residence halls and bring people together." 
job fair Tuesday 
By HILARY BURN 
News Writer 

The Career Center and College of Science will hold their first Science Career Fair Tuesday in the Joyce Center Heritage Hall. 
For the last year, Erin Majder, a Notre Dame senior science-business major and the student chair/coordina­tor of the Science Career Fair, has been helping the Career Center plan the event. 
Of the 250 or so companies that were invited in the fall, 35 companies from across the United States will be participating in the fair and 12 will have resume/cover letter drops. 
Companies will represent various types of jobs and internships of many disciplines. Unlike previous career fairs, however, the companies attending are particularly interested in people with a science background. 
"I have attended most of the other career fairs at one time or another in my time here at ND, and my experi­ence has been that it is very difficult for a science major to get a job at one of those fairs," said Majder. 'There have not been many opportunities for science majors at the other job fairs on campus. The reps look at you and say, 'we are only looking for [blank] majors, not science majors. You don't have any experience in this field.' This was very frustrating. I wanted to be able to go to a job fair and have people be interested in me, and I am sure other students feel the same way. This was what gave us the idea to have the Science Career Fair." 
Professors in the science department were told to inform their classes of the event and to encourage atten­dance in order to explore all of their options and begin networking, even if they already have summer or post­graduation plans. • 
"Science majors put too much pressure on themselves because they don't see all the options open to them beyond medical school, graduate school and lab work," 
see FAIR/page 4 

KICK STARTING A TRADITION 

,-----------------------------------------------------------------­
Monday, March 26, 200 l

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 

On Writing 
It's interesting to see what people do in 
their free time. What's free time'? It's what 
you do for fun. That thing that brings out 
Urn best in you. Some people sit on the sofa 
watching reruns of 90210. Others run 
around the lakes or play three on three. 
Some talk with friends, play video games. or 
read a good book. I happen to love reading, 
and consequently, love to write. Over break. 
I read "On Writing" by Stephen King. I've 
always loved to write, 
especially poetry. My

teachers back in Sa.n Angela Campos 
Diego started us writing in 
kindergarten. By fifth 

grade, we tried writing Lab Tech 
novellas and had a novel 
starting kit with exercises 
to help us with characters. 

scenes and plots. We thought we could come 
up with stellar stories. We thought we could 
write. 

The crazy thing is, we could. But most of us 
would go to the library and read our favorite 
books, then thinking we couldn't. Most of us 
never tried, because we were told it was tal­
ent. Oh, well. .. our loss? 

Not hardly, at least for me. I can't speak for my classmates at Spreckels, Standley and UCHS, but I knew how to write. I wrote what I knew. It started with poetry. Little that rhymed regularly, writing as it came. 
Then I got it in my head to write a novel. Jeez! So, two summers ago, after freshman year here, I started writing a story -my novel. I got four pages. I couldn't think of how to continue it, so I left it go and didn't touch it 'til last summer. I read through my four pages and just started writing. It started the same, but changed a paragraph into it. I managed to get 14 pages out of one para­graph. 
Last semester, r took Fiction Writing with Prof. William O'Rourke. It was a great oppor­tunity. r learned a lot about me, what 1 like and how I like it. I enjoyed the class and the opportunity to let my ideas flow. I have a few short stories now. After r let them sit for a while, I'll go back and rewrite them. But, as much fun as the class was, it was also a lot of hard work. It took a lot of time and then, sometimes nothing seemed to he there. Like a void. The emptiness you get when you need to wri,te a 10 page paper on your least favorite subject. Some say it's the lack of a Muse. r say its just plain writer's block. It happens. 
What I found out over break, was that -it happens, to the best of writers. And it's alright. Ideas are always there, often pound­ing down your door -and you can't hear it. I found a key to fit the lock on my brain. Write what you feel, anything can get you started. Don't be afraid of what anyone else thinks. Write for yourself and everything will be dandy. A hard lesson learned, hut I'm grateful. Thanks Prof. O'Rourke and Mr. King. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the anthor and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News  Scene  
Christine Kraly  C. Spencer Beggs  
Nicole Haddad  Graphics  
finn Pressly  Kary Hall  
Sports  Lab Tech  
Brian Kessler  Amanda Greco  
Viewpoint  
Ben Dillon  

The Ot.mvcr (USl'S 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday t:XC<'pt during exam :ind vacation. periods. The Observer is a member of Lhe Associated Press. All rc-production rights are reserved. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 

Monday  Tuesday  
. Lecture: "The Catholics  . Lecture: "Creating New  
Case Updated," Christine  Playing Fields," Dr. Leslie  
Firer Hinze, Marquette  Heaphy, assistant profes- 
University. Auditorium,  sor, History and Women's  
Hesburgh Center,  Studies, Kent State  
Cosponsored by the Anti- University, Stapleton  
Sweatshop Task Force.  Lounge, LeMans Hall, Saint  
7 p.m.  Mary's College, 7 p.m.  

OUTSIDE THE DOME 

Wednesday 
. Lecture: "Visual Thinking and Autism," Dr. Temple Grandin, author, designer. autistic national lecturer. assistant profes­sor, Colorado State University, Room 101, DeBartolo Hall, 7 p.m. 
Thursday 
. Lecture: ''Ruried Secrets: Truth and lluman Rights in Guatemala," Victoria Stanford, Kellogg Institute and Department of Anthropology, Room C-103, Hesburgh Center, sponsored by Kellogg Institute 
· Compiled from U-Wire reports 

ACLU files suit against U. Illinois regarding e-mail 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. 
The American Civil Liberties Union of Illinois filed a lawsuit Thursday in an attempt to establish legal restric­tions on public statements issued on the Chief [lliniwek controversy. 
The lawsuit, filed in federal district court, was in regard to an e-mail Chancellor Michael Aiken sent March 2 to all faculty, staff and stu­dents prohibiting any contact geared toward discouraging prospective athletes from attending the University of Illinois because of the Chief Illiniwek controversy. 
United States Federal Judge Harold Baker was assigned to the case, but instead of ruling, he recused himself from -or declared himself not an appropriate choice to judge -the case. After Baker's recusal, it was automatically passed on to Chief Judge Joe Billy McDade of Peoria who will reassign the case. 


Baker, an adjunct professor in the University College of Law, recused himself because of his association with the University. Baker said he did not receive Aiken's e-mail. 
The e-mail stated that NCAA coaches have strict guidelines on recruitment regarding "the timing, nature and frequency of contacts" with athlete recruits. The e-mail said the University could be punished severely for breaking the rules and guidelines of the NCAA contract and that faculty, staff and students were not permitted to contact prospective student athletes without the autho­rization of the athletic director. 
The e-mail was an attempt to pre­vent several anti-Chief University faculty members and students from dissuading potential athletes from attending the University. Some facul­ty members and students announced in February that they considered contacting recruits. 
KENT STATE UNIVERSITY 

DOE examines Microsoft dispute 
KENT. Ohio William Hall is lighting a fire under Kent State University's Trumbull campus regarding how finan­. cial aid was obtained for Microsoft courses. But Hall, _with match in hand, is under fire himself as ques­
tions arise about his motivations. The U.S. 
Department of Education is now looking into exactly 
how the financial aid applications were filled out 
concerning students enrolled in Microsoft certifica­
tion courses. Hall, a Kent State student, said stu­
dents were advised to write down that they were 
seeking an exploratory degree so that they would 
qualify for financial aid. Federal law states that a 
student must be a degree-seeking student in order to 
receive financial aid, meaning that certificate pro­
grams do not qualify. Hall said that many of the stu­
dents who were advised to put down an exploratory 
degree were actually enrolling in the Microsoft class­
es just to become certified, not to seek a bachelor's 
degree. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

AccuWeather'" forecast for daytime conditions and high temreratures 
H  L  
Tuesday  ~  37  27  
Wednesday  rCA  46  33  
Thursday  ~ ' ''''  52  39  
Friday  a' ... '''  57  40  
Saturday  a ... ''''  57  41  

Q,~,Q9,Q.Q (I-~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurrf9s Snow lc9 Sunny Pl Cloudy Cloudy 
Via Assodllll9d Pttf& Gn,phicsNsi 

DUKE UNIVERSITY 
Ad protesters submit demands 
DURHAM, N.C. 

Protests co,ntinued Thursday morning over an anti­reparations ad printed in the March 19 edition of The Chronicle. More than 100 students held a silent and passionate demonstration outside Duke University President Nan Keohane'.s office. The group of mostly black students, many in tears, formed a human chain as they handed Keohane petitions that listed two demands of the University and four of The Chronicle. Following delivery, the group filed out of the Allen. Building. Later in the day, Keohane sent protest orga­nizers an e-mail rejecting one demand and agreeing to the other. Chronicle editors rejected all four demands in a lengthy and resolute statement. Protesting students won their battle for the one demand tangentially related to the ad itself: that the administration compile a report addressing progress on demands made by black students in 1969, 1975 and 1997. Keohane expects the report to be issued March 29. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather<" forecast for noon.Monday, March 26. 

FRONTS: 
...,.......... .......... ~ 

O 2001 AceuW..tl"Mtr, Inc, COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Pressure:

®C0DDDDDD 
High Low Shower• Rain T-starms Flurrle ¦ Snow Ice su,my Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
lllaAssoo.,1E1dP,w11  
Atlanta  52  28  Las Vegas  80  57  Portland  55  40  
Baltimore  40  25  Memphis  51  31  Sacramento  72  48  
Boston  36  26  Milwaukee  30  24  St. Louis  44  25  
Chicago  31  51  New York  70  49  Tampa  68  47  
Houston  63  51  Philadelphia  38  27  Washington DC 43  28  

Monday, March 26, 200 I The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
College welco01es ad01itted students for Accepted Day 
By DANIELLE GREER 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary's community welcomed all accepted 2001 applicants to campus for Accepted Day Sunday. 
Accepted Day provides prospective students with an opportunity to get a view of campus in order to help them make a decision regarding which college or university to attend. 
Accepted applicants inter­acted with staff, faculty and current students at Saint Mary's College. Prospective 
students also had the opportunity to socialize wi Lh future class­mates. 
Activities gave the pros pee tive students a sense of the Saint Mary's community. 
A Mass. reception and tours of the campus allowed the women and 
"What people have to t e 
Co 11 e g e's 

understand is that ab iIi ty to ethnically diverse recruit a 
m o r e

students look for the 
d iv er s e 

same things white class. 
students look for in "Here at Saint Mary's
a college. " 

our goal is · to enrich Mona Bowe the experi­ence for all.
associate director, 
Us ually we
admissions office 

their parents to speak to and interact with the faculty, said Jennifer Freeze, assistant director and campus visit coordinator. 
"Accepted Day went well overall. I enjoyed meeting and interacting with the faculty. I'm also interested in sports, so I got a chance to talk to coaches about what I'm inter­csted in, which is cross-coun­try. I think this was beneficial bccause it gave me a chance to familiarize myself with the campus and will make it easi­er to affirm my decision," said Kristen Zaininger, prospective student for class of 2005. 
Accepted 'Day continues to promote Saint Mary's pride. "Ilcre they [prospective stu­dents] get a chance to bond and form friendships. Saint Mary's community becomes like a family," said Mary Pat Nolan. 
The admissions office hopes that more diversity will be represented on Accepted Day 
-a number 
indicative of 
h 
have 10 
percent or 

less [diverse students] apply, but this year we had 13 percent apply. That's really good," said Mary Pat Nolan, director of the admissions office. 
This increase is an accom­plishment for the admissions office because Saint Mary's is becoming more known throughout the United States and abroad. 
There were applicants from 30 different states and coun­tries. 
Mona Bowe, associate direc­tor of the admissions office, is also hoping for an increase within the diversity on the Saint Mary's campus. 
"What people have to under­stand is that ethnically diverse student~ look for the same things white students look for in a, college. The College has to feel right to them," said Rowe. 
In addition to helping con­vince students to attend the College with Accepted Day. the admissions office is also offer­ing live online chats every other Tuesday until the end of the vear. 
Piospective students can go to a college on line website and enter chat rooms for specific topics about the Saint Mary's community. The online chats may help the students finalize their decision to attend Saint Mary's. This will be an easy, convenient way for the appli­cants to interact with each other as well as faculty, staff, and current Saint Mary's stu­dents. 
The admissions office will also offer travel grants to help bring students from distant locations who would like to visit. Saint Mary's feels it is important to extend their rep­utation throughout the U.S. and across the world. 
"We have a list of about 12 states that apply for the travel grants. We offer this travel stipend because there is no substitute for a campus visit," said Bowe. 


DOROTHY CAROER/The Observer Admitted Saint Mary's students talk with staff, faculty and current students at the College's Accepted Day Sunday at Angela Athletic Facility. The event welcomes accepted stu­dents to the campus to inform them about the school. 



Brought to you by the 
Institute for Latino Studies and the Snite Museum of Art 
*Limited availability; must sign up in advance. For more information or to sign up, please contact: Diana Leza, Program and Public Relations Coordinator Institute for Latino Studies Phone: 631-3747 E-mail: Leza.l@nd.edu 
Slide Show/Lecture 
Monday, March 26 4:00 PM Jordan Auditorium Free and open to the public 
Papel Picado Workshop* 
Tuesday, March 27 4:00 PM Snite Museum 
Ashbaugh Educational Center Open to families with small children, student teachers and art teachers 
"Business of Art". Student Lecture* 
Wednesday, March 28 3:30PM . 119 O'Shaughnessy 
' .... I~ . Open to undergraduate and graduate students interested in pursuing :--•· --t-istic career 


Fair 
continued from page 1 
said Paul Huber. a Notre Dame professor and undergraduate advi­sor for biochemistry. 
"Science journalism and science public policy are two examples. I had a student who did not have the grades for medical school. but she took a great science public policy internship in Washington instead," said llub1ir. 
Many of the companies and orga­nizations attending the fair are well-known nationally or interna­tionally. These include General Electric, Johnson & Johnson, Pfizer and tlrn CIA. 
"It's a line line !getting the com­panies to come] because Notre Dame is a little smaller than some other schools," said Kopec. "So, it is a wonderful tribute to the out­standing science students here at Notre Dame that so many top­notch companies from various industries are participating in our first fair.,. 
GE, f'or example. only focuses its recruiting activities at 36 key schools and Notre Damfl is one of them, according to Steve Canale of GE's Manager, Recruiting and Stafling Services. 
"ND has an excellent reputation 
-for producing students with strong technical. and professional skills," said Marc Garbiras, a 1998 Notre Dame alum and computer scientist for General Electric's Corporate Hescarch and Development depart­ment. "We find the academic cur­riculum at the universitv to be extremely strong and well .aligned with the skills and qualifications we are looking for in our employees. The same fundamental principles of integrity, commitment to quality and excellence, and community spirit that the university strives for from its students, are the same as our o¼n GE Values." 

Garbiras is just one of the Notre Dame alumni that will be returning to their alma maters for a recruit­ing trip. Garrett Morn.ski, a 1997 Notre Dame alumnus and laborato­ry assistant scientist for the Pfizer Global Research Division, is anoth­er. According to him, Pfizer choos­es to recruit at Notre Dame because its current assistants from Notre Dame are doing well, show­ing it is an attractive place to hire. 
GE and Pfizer are not alone in choosing to recruit directly at uni­versities because employers like them value the skills and enthusi­asm of new grads. 
"The recruitment of good candi­dates in job markets is difficult today. By recruiting and hiring uni­versity undergraduates. we have the opportunity to develop them inlo the future management lead­ers of tomorrow within our compa­ny," said Lisa Huston, a sales recruiting manager for Johnson & Johnson. 
New grads also offer other advantages for companies involved with science and technology. 
'They are aligned with the cur­rent technologies, and in many cases have knowledge and experi­ence with applications that have not yet made it, or are just making it, into mainstream corporate America," said Garbiras. 
"College graduates are apt to learn new skills and generally have a shorter learning curve than peo­ple who have been awav from academia for a while. Th~y also have a strong work ethic, and the enthusiasm and energy of recent graduates is unmatched," said Garbiras. 
Companies at the career fair will be looking for candidates for sum­mer internships, not just full-time positions. Even though some com­panies, like. Johnson & Johnson. are not directly looking for interns, they will accept resumes on Tuesday for internship considera­tion. Other companies attending have structured internship pro­grams and are specifically target­ing undergraduates. 
"Our internship programs are designed to support the develop­ment needs of university under­grads and it is our hope that undergrads who participate in internship programs will be inter­ested in being considered for full­time opportunities upon gradua­tion," said Carrie Eglinton Manner, a 1996 Notre Dame alumna and Sales Quality Leader for GE Medical Systems. 
Students from all colleges, majors and years are invited to participate in the fair. 
"It is our hope that many stu­dents will take advantage of this unique opportunity and attend the fair with their resume in hand," said Kopec. "Hopefully with a good turnout the fair will be even bigger next year." 
Twelve of the companies attend­ing Tuesday's event will also be staying for Wednesday's Arts and Letters Career Fair. 
Club celebrates Asian 0100th with caIDpus activities 
By NICOLE HADDAD 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
The Asian Club of Saint Mary's College celebrates Asian month with various activities on campus throughout the month. 
Proud of their success in raising awareness and enthusi­asm among students of all backgrounds on Saint Mary's campus, the club is in its second year. 
Co-sponsored by the Oflicc of' Multicultural Affairs and the Student Diversity Board, the ·c1ub began after students expressed concern to Maria Orpeza. director of' Multicultural Af!'ars, that there wasn't an Asian organization on campus, said Asra Ashraf, president of the Asian Club. 
Current events include lectures, an Asian Film Fest and a fundraiser for the Purple Rose Campaign, an organization that tries to stop sexual traflicking in third world countries. 
"Next year, the club hopes to include the current events. as well as the addition of an Asian Festival. where students run various booths and tents with activities that raise enthusiasm and appreciation for the Asian culture," said Ashraf. One of the main goals of the club is to raise awareness of' all Asian cultures. 
"Not many people are aware of the diversity of the Asian culture. There's not one common language or culture from one part of the country to another. It's hard to relate to one another," said Ashraf. "The club allows us to get together and appreciate one another." 
Not all members of the club are Asian. In fact, most arc caucasian, including the vice president, junior Erin Schenz, and the treasurer, senior Karla Flores. 
"Normally it seems culture clubs, except for language clubs, have one cultural background, but we have a lot of people of diverse backgrounds," said Schenz. "We're a wel­coming group, and that's why we've been doing a great job of raising awareness." 


Headlining Every Monday Night at Club 23: 
Beth Sheehan's Greatest Hits! 
Happy 21st Shee! 
Love, The Girls 

'ECDC Registration 
The Early Childhood Development Center, located at the 
University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College, is now 
accepting 2001 Summer Registration for children ages 
three through six and 2001-2002 School Year 
Registration for children ages two through five. Both part 
time and full time enrollment schedules are available. For 
more information, please call one of the numbers below. 
Early Childhood Development Center, Inc. 
Please call ­
631-3344 
or 

·..·-~ ...~--'.~ 284-4693 
Global Health Initiative presents: 
Miles for Medicine 
Supporting the ISSLP in Ecuador 
Andean Health and Development 
5 km Run 
Thursday March 29th 3 :·3o Registration, 4pm Start $7 fee At the CSC 
Free T-shirts to the top 3 0 finishers 


HEALTH 
INITIATIVE Questions/Comments: ghi@nd.edu 
Please Recycle The Observer. 

ATION 
!\fonday, March 26, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Plane crash kills 20: Emergency work­ers removed bodies Sunday from the charred wreckage of a twin-engine plane that slammed into a house on the Caribbean island of St. llarts, killing all 19 people on board and one on the ground, authorities said. Air Caraibes Flight 1501 from nearby Dutch St. Maarten crashed Saturday afternoon as it approached the runway at St. Jean Airport, authorities said. 
New Zealand opens ties with North Korea: New Zealand will establish diplomat­ic relations Monday with communist North Korea, officials said Sunday, New Zealand hopes the move will enable it to discuss securi­ty and humanitarian issues with Pyongyang and to help defuse tension on the Korean peninsula, an official statement said. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Pilots continue negotiation: Comair Inc.. the nation's second-largest regional car­rier, and its pilots continued their contract negotiations -Sunday as a midnight strike deadline loomed. The airline did not immedi­ately announce whether it would cancel any of Monday's 815 daily departures in a system that serves about 25,000 passengers daily, but it scheduled an afternoon news confer­ence. 
Smokers protest proposed ban: 
Waving a 10-foot-long cigarette above their heads, smokers marched to New York's City Hall on Saturday to protest a proposed law that would ban smoking in the city's 21,000 restaurants. "We smoke!" the crowd yelled. "Butt out!" The smokers were joined by restaurant owners, waiters and bartenders in protesting the bill -the Smoke Free Air Act -which is expected to be sent to the City Council in May or June. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
TB cases at an all-time low: Statistics to be released Monday show that instances of tuberculosis in Indiana are at an all-time low. State health officials reported 145 new cases in 2000, 22 of which were fatal. "It's a tragedy. It's a totally preventable disease," said Dr. Stephen Jay, chairman of the depart­ment of public health at the Indiana University School of Medicine. Tuberculosis, also called TB, is caused by bacteria and spread by coughing or sneezing. Sometimes, exposure results in illness within weeks, as the lungs are destroyed. 
Market Watch March 23 Dow +115.30
9,504.78

Janes 
15 

Composite Same: 
Volume: 235 
N/A 
I AMEX: 861.J7 +F).5l> NASDAQ: 11928.68 +30. 98 I ~YSE: 577.87 +11.52 
S&P 500: 1,139.83 +22.55 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -5.37 -1.06 18.69 NASDAQ 100 SHAR (QQQ) +0.00 +0.00 42.80 IMMUNEX CORP (IMNX) -38.44 -7.26 11.62 INTEL CORP (INT() +0.43 +Q.12 28.81 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +2.45 +0.38 15.88 
JAPAN 


Associated Press 
HIROSHIMA 
A powerful earthquake convulsed southwestern Japan on Saturday, buck­ling roads, snapping power lines, damaging houses and killing two people with falling debris. 
The magnitude-6.4 tem­blor caused damage in five Japanese states and was felt as far away as South Korea, more than 150 miles northwest of the epicenter. 
Authorities reported 123 injuries, 12 of them serious, in the Japanese state of Hiroshima, and scores more in surrounding states. News reports Sunday said more than 160 people were hurt, but it wasn't possible to immediately confirm them. 

Broken roof tiles and window shards littered streets in the city of Hiroshima, which has about 1 million people, and thousands of households were left without running water 
"Plates fell off shelves and waitresses screamed in panic," said Koji Akimoto, who was sitting in a Hiroshima coffee shop when the mid-afternoon quake hit. "I rushed outside because I was scared to be in a crowded area. It seemed like an eternity but it only lasted a minute or so." 
An 80-year-old woman died in Kure, a city about 12 miles south of Hiroshima, when she was buried under the rubble of a collapsed wall. In nearby Ehime state, a 50-year-old woman fleeing her home in the city of Matsuyama was killed by roof tiles that fell on her head. 
The quake, centered some 38 miles below ground, struck at 3:28 p.m. 
near Hiroshima, about 430 miles southwest of Tokyo, the Meteorological Agency said. 
Water lines were cut in islands near the quake's epicenter, affecting 10,000 households. It was unclear when water would be restored, said local official Masaaki Fukuhara. About 33,000 homes were without water in Kure. 
In Hiroshima city, the quake set off a fire that burned down one home. Across the state, three houses were completely destroyed and several hun­dred were damaged. 
MACEDONIA 

Forces invade rebel-held village 
already key positions have been tiles flying as troops blasted houses 
Associated Press 

taken." suspected of harboring rebels. Two GAJRE The fighting has brought combat­helicopters strafed the hillsides. 
Using armored cars for cover, gov­ants into their closest quarters yet A lone man ran to free his cows ernment troops punched through in the six-week conflict near the from a burning barn. He then shot a rebel Jines and moved into a hillside Kosovo border that NATO wants thin stream of water from a garden 
· village on Sunday, spraying houses defused to prevent a wider Balkan hose on his barn and houso. in a with bullets as they spearheaded an war. vain attempt to staunch the flames. offensive to push ethnic Albanian Macedonian troops led by seven After the fighting ended. dozens of insurgents back from Macedonia's armored personnel carriers and two terrified people who had been hid­second-largest city. tanks moved into the village of ing in a cellar surfaced and rushed While not claiming all-out victory, Gajre, in the hills just northwest of into the thick forest around the vil­Prime Minister Ljubco Georgievski Tetovo, Sunday afternoon, breaking lage. said government forces were doing through a rebel roadblock and forc­After taking Gajre. the troops well, asserting that the thrust to ing the insurgents to pull back. regrouped and set up positions over­
"clear the terrain of ·terrorists ... is Houses and cars were burning in looking Llavce, another rebel-held being carried out successfully, and the village, and bullets sent roof village just north of Gajre. 
Cannabis cooperative pushes for 01edical 01arijuana use 
Buyers· Cooperative. ing and harvesting it themselves. of Charles Breyer. the federal tute, which was asked to exam­
Associated rrc..s 

The cooperative is a distribu­The Supreme Court is not look­district judge who ordered the ine the issue by the White House tion club operating under ing directly at Proposition 215, club to stop distributing marijua­drug policy office, said that 
OAKIAND, Calif. 
A few years ago, an author writing about death asked ailing AIDS patient Michael Alcalay how he was accepting dying. 
'Tm not accepting it," Alcalay retorted. 
Alcalay is alive today thanks in part, he believes, to doses of marijuana that helped him keep his medicines down and appetite up as he fought the disease. 
On Wednesday, Alcalay will be in the audience as lawyers try to convince the U.S. Supreme Court that federal anti-drug laws shouldn't prevent marijuana from being given Lo seriously ill patients for pain relief. 
"Once the justices recognize what's really at stake in this case, if any semblance of justice prevails then so will we," said Hobert Raich, an attorney repre­senting the Oakland Cannabis 
Sinith 
continued from page 1 
microphone in sounding distance 
and dish on hi'> ex-castmates. the 
former Georgia Tech University 
student mixed his antics with 
serious reflection on his faith. 
One ofsix children in a Catholic 
family, Smith said he only 
became passionate about his 
faith as a college student, follow­
ing his break-up with his long­
time girlfriend. 
Religion. especially Sunday Masses sponsored by Life Teen, provided him solace and gave Smith a different perspective on life. 
"I began to realize that it was only when you're in synch with God's plan things really start to happen," he said. 
And things did begin to happen 
for Smith. Heally. 
Soon after his spiritual revival. Smith submitted an audition tape and was selected for "The Real World" -an nxperience he said brought new struggles to his faith daily. Faced not only with temp­tations from "Heal World" groupies in the Big Easy, Smith said living with six housematcs much different from him helped him delve deeper into his faith. 
Not that followers saw much of Smith's Catholic character last season. 
While romantic plots and bick­ering involving his roommates irrnvitably aired on MTV last sum­mer, Smith said his portrayal as the "quiet one" was misleading. Ilis daily Mass attendance and role as peacemaker in the house didn't lend itself to exciting televi­sion, but Smith takes offense at being pegged as reserved. 
Bnally? 
If the blue plaid pants, trade­mark wrap-around sunglasses and stacked-heel white sneakers weren't an indication, then audi­ence members may have taken a clue from Smith's habit of sipping his mike and speaking into his glass of water. 
'Tm not quiet. I'm a punk, and I'm loud," Smith argued. Apparently so were some of Smith's co-stars. 
"Julie didn't cry all the time," he said. "She just cried most of the time. Melissa didn't talk about race all the time. She just talk about it most of the time." 
Tho barbs were good-natured, and Smith also took aim at housemates Danny and Kelly, who he said "lucked out" because they were really more irritible California's Proposition 215, the voter-approved law that allows the possession and use of mari­juana for medical purposes on a doctor's recommendation. 

That's where Alcalay used to get his marijuana. But he's had to look elsewhere since the fed­eral government sued the coop­erative and five other California pot clubs in 1998 to prevent them from distributing the drug. 
A federal judge sided with the government. But last year, the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that "medical necessity" is a legal defense. 
California officials, including Attorney General Bill Lockyer, argue that the state has the right to enforce its medical marijuana law, which was approved by vot­ers in 1996. Distribution clubs sprang up because Proposition 215 is silent on how patients will get marijuana, outside of grow-
than they were portrayed on screen. 
Smith also gave other hints that the grandfather of reality shows, approaching its 10th season, is plagued by editing that makes "The Real World" not so real after all. He described a scene involving a kiss between co-stars Jamie and Julie at the foot of a staircase. Smith said in reality the two were only talking with their faces close to each other, but through various camera angles and dubbed-in kissing sounds, MTV aired an allusion of a smooch between them. 
"They [the crew and editors] can do anything. I've seen a sen­tence chopped up from three dif­ferent scenes and spliced togeth­er," said Smith. who stays in con­tact with the cast through fre­quent appearances and promo­tions together. 
While many some ex-"Real Worlders" have used the show to kickstart their careers, Smith's work with the non-profit Life Teen takes him to middle and high schools and college campus­es across the country. 
He said he has no plans lo end his work for the organization, and he urged his listeners Friday to find comfort in their faith. 
"You can all just re-experience your faith and explore new depths of it. That's when you'll find happiness," he said. "In 'The Heal World' or elsewhere." 
but rather at whether medical necessity may be used as a defense against federal drug bans. It's unclear whether the justices will rule on that general issue or rule more narrowly on how lower courts have han.dled this case. 
If the court says "Yes" to the necessity defense, it could make it easier to distribute medical marijuana in California and the eight other states with similar laws -Alaska, Hawaii, Oregon, Washington, Arizona, Maine, Nevada and Colorado. 
Supreme Court Justice Stephen G. Breyer has recused himself because he is the brother na. 
The club remains open, but only to sell legal hemp products and maintain a membership database. 
Justice Department lawyers declined to comment on the case. They have argued that allowing clubs to hand out mari­juana compromises the govern­ment's ability to enforce federal drug laws. 
Advocates say marijuana is a reliable and nontoxic therapy that in some cases is the only relief for suffering people. 
That point of view was endorsed recently by the Institute of Medicine. The insti­because the chemicals in mari­juana ease anxiety, stimulate appetite, ease pain and reduce nausea and vomiting, they can be helpful for people undergoing chemotherapy and people with AIDS. 
Institute officials also warned that smoking marijuana can cause respiratory disease and recommended development of forms of the drug that could be taken in other ways. 
Alcalay, a 59-year-old physi­cian who serves as the club's medical director, started using marijuana to keep down his medication al'ter he was diag­nosed with HIV in the 1980s. 

"1'JU: ijUTlJU BJWGNGS. IO. JlJlOS:E· W.H01BEI:l'lWll IN, lllE:B&\J:J'FY OF-THJ:. D.REAM~ '" 
--l;LEANO.~i ROOS.E\/El'l, 

THE WOMEN'S RE.sOURCE CENTER PRESENTS ••• 

.,p..JHE WRC ASKS THE NOTRE DAME COMMUNITY TO...q,, PARTICIPA1E IN HONORING FOUR WOMEN OF NOTRE DAME 
'IP-PLEASE SUBMIT NOMINATIONS FOR...q,, FEMALE STUDENTS, FACUI.TY MEMBERS AND STAFF MEMBERS WHO YOU FEEL ARE AN ASSET TO TIIE NOTRE DAME COMMUNITY OR WHO HAVE BEEN A GREAT POSITIVE INFI.UENCE ON YOUR LIFE 
JP-YOUR NOMINATION OF ONE PAGE OR LESS SHOULD INCI.UDE DIE FOLLOWING: 
~ How YOUR NOMINEE HAS BEEN A POSITIVE ASSET TO THE NOTRE DAME COMMUNITY ~ How YOUR NOMINEE HAS INFLUENCED YOU IN A POSITIVE MANNER ~ YOUR NAME, TELEPHONE-NUMBER AND EMAIL ADDRESS 03 THE FULL NAME OF YOUR NOMINEE 
-THE NOMINATION WllL BE JUDGED BY A PANEL OF MALE AND FEMALE STUDENTS AND FACULlY MEMBERS ',!>-WE WllL HONOR EACH WOMAN IN DIE APRll 26111 EDmON OF SCHOLASTIC 
-PLEASE EMAIL YOUR NOMINATIONS TO: ND.WRC.l@ND.EDU OR DROP NOMINATIONS OFF AT THE WRC, 300 LAFORTUNE 
'>?-DEADLINE FOR NOMINATIONS: TuESDAY. APRll 3RD 
ANY QUESTIONS: EMAIL THE WRC, OR CALL: 1-9028 DIANK YOU FOR YOUR PARTICIPATION! 


Announcing a new undergraduate minor 
Religion and Literature 
Beginning next fall, you can bring your intellectual curiosity and scholarly goals as a participant in the new interdisciplinary minor in Religion and Literature. 
If you are interested in becoming part of this new minor the time to act is now. All students will be expected to complete a specific "required'' course--one of which will be offered in the Fall semester and another in the Spring. Spaces for the Fall course are currently being reserved but arc limited. To find out more, please contact one of the following: 
Collin Meissner: Tel. 631-3654: e-mail Meissner.l@nd.edu 
Joseph Buttigieg: Tel. 631-7781; e-mail Buttigieg.1@nd.edu 
Monday, March 26, 200 l The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Researchers find puberty-inducing gene in young girls 
However, genes almost a study of 192 girls ages nine 
Associated Press 
certainly play a role in the age and HJ. of puberty, and many assumed A study published four years that the most likely players in ago found that about half of all
NEW ORLEANS 

this scenario would be ones black girls and 15 percent of
Scien tis ts attempting to fig­

that control the body's produc­whites begin to develop sexual­
ure out why some girls go 
tion and use of estrog1m. ly by age eight. The average
through puberty at unusually 
Research released Sunday at age of puberty is about 13 for 
young ages have found a sur­
a meeting of the American whites and a year younger for
prising culprit -a gene that 
Association for Cancer blacks.
speeds up the body's break­
Research suggests a more com­Typically, girls begin breast
down of the male sex hormone. 
plicated interplay of hormones, development about a year
Many believe that the age 

since the body's supply of before their first period.
of puberty -the time when 
testosterone, the male hor­Kadlubar's team looked for a
girls develop breasts and 
mone, seems to be a key influ­link between genes and this
other sexual characteristics 
ence on the timing of puberty. change in the randomly chosen 
-is creeping downward. 
Or. Fred F. Kadlubar and col­group of girls.
The must widely held expla­
leagues from the Food and They examined several genes
nation for th is is growing 
Drug Administration's 'National that control the body's use of
childhood obesity, along 
Center for Toxicological estrogen but found no associa­
with rich diets and lack of 
Research discovered the link in tion with early puberty. To
physical activity. 
ATTENTION OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS 
OPF·CAMPUS FORMAL 
FRIDAY MARCH 301H @SENIOR BAR 
$10 per couple $5 indiv. ticket 
TICKETS WILL BE SOLD: TUES 3/27 3-5 pm WED 3/28 3-5 pm in Debartolo Computer Lab Lounge 
their surprise. though, they found a strong link when they tested the girls for a gene that controls the body's breakdown of testosterone. 
They looked for a particular variation, called CYP1B1, in a gone that produces a liver enzyme. They found that 90 perc;ent of the girls with two copies of this genetic variation had already begun breast development by age 9 1/2, com­pared with 56 percent of those with one copy and 40 percent with no copies. 
"It tells us what goes on hor­monally during the early stage of breast development," said Kadlubar. "Now we have to put testosterone into the equation." 
It has long been known that estrogen produc;tion increases and testosterone falls during this developmental landmark. Kadlubar said the CYP1B1 gene, by reducing testosterone levels, may trigger the cascade of hormones involved in the start of breast development. 
Early puberty is a concern, because it increases the risk of breast cancer later in life. Experts speculate that, among other things, early breast development may increase life­1ong exposure to estrogen, which increases the chances of this malignancy. 
Kadlubar said the enzyme he studied is critically important to the body's well being, so doctors are unlikely ever to try tinkering with it in an attempt to slow puberty. 
However, Dr. Christine B. Ambrosone of Mount Sinai School of Medicine in New York City said it someday may he useful to screen girls for the genetic variation. Those who­have the gene could be targets for special effort to delay puberty by slowing their weight gain and increasing exercise. 
"These are groundbreaking studies," she said. "We will nood to see where this goes, but there is a lot of exciting research for the future." 
Kadlubar said the next step will he to see if the gene influ­ences sexual development in boys. In theory, at least, those with the CYPlB 1 gene should develop later than usual, since they are exposed to lower lev­els of testosterone. 



Monday, March 26, 2001 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
WHAT REALLY MATTERS IS HOW YOU 
PLAY TH~GAME 

::\ '\:: __·\:?:>>::. :\: ' : 
·:· "!:\ '-:/ ·~:· 
-:~{· 


A lifetime opp&1t!$ttify for graduating seniors: 
.. •···.· ;;:\<>> ... 

Monday, March 26, 200 l The Observer . ENTERTAINMENT NEWS page 9 
Roberts, Crowe win acting honors at 73rd annual Oscars 
Associated P ,ess 
List of 73rd annual Academy Awards pre­senletl Sunday evening at the Shrine Auditorium in Los Angeles: 
Picture: "Gladiatur." 
l)irf\ctor: Steven Soderbergh. "Traffic." 
Actor: Russell Crowe, ''Gladiator." 
Actress: Julia Roberts. "Erin Brockovich." 
Supporting Actor: Renicio Del Toro, "Traflic." Supporting Actress: Marcia Gay Harden, "Pollock." Screenplay Adaptation: Stephen Gaghan, 
"Traffic." 
Original Screenplay: Cameron Crowe, "Almost Famous." foreign Language Film: "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon." Original Score: "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon." Original Song: "Things Have Changed" from "Wonder Boys," Bob Dylan. Art Direction: "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon." 
Film Editing: "Traffic." 
Live Action Short Subject: "Quiero Ser (l want to be)." Animated Short Subject: "Father and Daughter." 
Costume Design: "Gladiator." 
Sound: "Gladiator." 
Sound Edi Li11g: "U-5 71 " 
Cinematography: "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon." Make-up: "Dr. Seuss· How the Grinch Stole Christmas." 
Documentary Short: "Big Mama." 
Documentary Feature: "Into the Arms of Strangers: Stories of the Kindertransport." Visual Effects: "Gladiator." Academy Award winners previously 
announced this year: Honorary Oscar: cinematographer Jack Cardiff. Honorary Oscar: screenwriter-producer­director Ernest Lehman. 
Technical Achievement: Rob Cook, Loren Carp.enter and Ed Catmull of Pixar for the "Henderman" software. 
Gordon E. Sawyer Award: producer Irwin W. Young. Irving G. Thalberg Memorial Award: produc­er Dino De Laurentiis. 
This rates as our big home improve~1:pt 
ever. 
.n. /)".,',}:<)!! 
.,..-I/{ .,,,;~ ~­
NOTRE DAM.8" ,; ' ,.;: · 
FEDERALCREDITUNIQN. .: · -,. ·.· 1.':/ ,.f .'. 
fl.,·"' ' 

219n39-6611 
• www.ndfcu.or.....g...,.,,...,,,_"', ·<fl 

AFP photos Julia Roberts (above left) won Best Actress honors for "Erin Brockovich," while Russell Crowe (above right) was awarded the Oscar for his work in "Gladiator." Below (left) Steven Soderbergh holds his statue for Best Direction for his "Traffic," a film which Included Best Supporting Actor Benlcio Del Toro (below right). 


·.•· I J. ,~ , 
_; ·J 
r . ,

--~.~/·.-.1.l·f····•.;.i/.·~."..·~y.·'.
·/'/ ·~:.}]i?J
.. ~-i A .I. i"' f· 
./ /. _./.~1-~i~·'rJ-J/ft.·,'
,• . , . . .ST j. " f.• 
,.;./ i , ~" •:i: ·Yti,ri<?f //..,,Ji/(t l.­
5.9'}1APR* 9.5o~APW"
O 0 
Introductory rate for 6 months 


•Annual P«ccntagc Rate. Property insunnc, is .-.q,.,ited. Not valid with any other olie,. Ram subject to <Mnge. Consult>'"" advi,o, "li"rding rhc deduct~bilary of ,nrett":Sr. A batloon payment w,11. rtsult :at waturo:y. After the sue-month tntroduc:.tory pem,.d1 rhe rare will revert to the h1ghesr prune lendtni rate of the prev1ous quarter. Mimmum amount 1s $5,CO), maximum amount AS':Sl00,00:,. Independent of the Univers,cy. 
Low regular rate 
IC3!2JI@
£GI/AL M01.tsi•c 
LENDER 


• 
CHEERLEADER & LEPRE CHA UN 
Tryout Information Meeting 
Serious candidates should pick up forms to be completed (prior to this meeting) at the reception desk in the Joyce Center above Gate 3. 
5:30 pm March 26, 2001 in Gym 2 of the Joyce Center 
DOMUS PROPERTIES HAS A10 BEDROOM HOUSE 
-4 BATH, 3 KITCHENS 

-BIG COMMON ROOM WITH BAR -VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -NEAR OTHER STUDENT HOUSES 
-SECURITY SYSTEM 
-WASHER & DRYER 
CONTACT KRAMER 
-HEAT INCLUDED IN RENT 
(219) 
298-9673 CELL PHONE (219) 234-2436 OFFICE 

(219) 
674-2572 VOICE MAIL 



ALSO LEASING HOUSES FOR 2002-2003 SCHOOL YEAR 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 10 BSERVER Monday, March 26, 200 I 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Nolfe Dame, IN 46556 021 South Dining H;.ll. Notte Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR 8USIN£.<;..~ MANAGF.11 Noreen Gillespie Bob Woods 
AssT. MAN,\CING EDITOR Kerry Smith 
N1,.ws EL>llOR: Jason McFarley VwwrotNT F.orroR: Par McElwee Sl'ORH fDITOll: Nush Amst,1drer SC:F.Nl'. EDITOR: Amand:i Crcr:o SAINT MAltY's Eonoll: Myra M~Griff PHOTO El>ITOR: Peter llich,irdson 
AllVf.lll"ISING MANAC.Ell, Kimberly Springer All DESIGN MANAGER: Chri.< Avila SaSJEM~ Al>MINISTR,Holl: Palm,\ Chin WES ADMINISTRATOR, Adam Turner CoNTROJ.LER: Knin Ry.in GRAl'HICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
CONTACT Us 

OFFICE MANAUR/GfNE!V.1. lNH>..............63l-7471 
FAX .. .. ... . .. .. ... ... .. .... .. . .. .. .. .. .. ....631-6')27 Al>VF.RTISING .................................... 631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu Emma IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDmlR/AssT. ME....................631-4541 UUS1NESS OFFICE.....................................631-53 l 3 N1cws..........................................................631-S323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu Vn•.Wl'OINT.................................................631-5303 obscrver.viewpoin1. l@nd.edu SroRTS........................................................631-4543 observer.spons. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4 540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv'S............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu l'l!OTO.. . ................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WU ADMINlSTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visir our Web site at http:llob,erorr.nd.edu for daily updates ofcimpus n=, sports, features and opinion columns, as wdl as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associared Press. 
SURF TO: 
Traveling abroad is always an eye­opening, an eye-popping, an eye-call-it­what-you-will experience. and it's never morn true then when referring to the experience of the American. or 
more specifically,  
the North American  
of United States  Anna Barbour  
heritage dating  
back at least two  
maybe three gener­ations. This person  Get a Life  
is a good man or a  
good woman who  

simply believes life in the "U-S-of-A" is the best life and the only life. 
If one has a nationalistic bone in his or her body, it is diflicult to argue with this man or woman about the quality. of one's American life. We U.S. Americans should like what we see, what we do. how we live; we may even be so bold as to call ourselves a superpower and then smile about that aspect of our lives too. 
We, however, do not live the only life worth living; there are people in other lands, across vast seas, living quite nice lives themselves. And if one does not want to be an idiot, if one desires to maintain the quality of his or her own great North American life, it may behoove one to know other forms of liv­ing. 
Take. for instance, the French way of life. First of all, somehow the French have gotten the bad rap of being against the U.S. way of doing things, but this is not so, the French just like doing things their way better. You have got to respect that. Perhaps their eleva­tors are the size of their showers and both are smaller than anything ever seen in the United States. perhaps no one feels the sting of injustice when someone cuts in front of him or her and perhaps they use the metric system. 
Everybody but us, though. uses the metric system. And it's actually quite conducive of intimacy when you are smushed up against a good-looking individual in a four person (big enough !'or two people) elevator. Also, it is kind of liberating when you cut in front of a long line, saving tons of time and nobody gives you the evil eye. And, ahh "Paree". it's truly a city of love ­where is the equivalent U.S. city'? Where in the U.S. can you even get pain au chocolai block after block? This pastry is good. 

How many Americans know French? Sure. it's important to be multi-lingual for a variety of reasons. The best rea­son of all, though, is that knowing a country's language means you know what is going on or can find out what's going on in that country. Knowing the low-down, having the lingo, in my hum­ble opinion, is a key ingredient to any good living experience. 
Yet, sadly, many Americans rarely know what is going on; we can't help but stick out like the big thumb, and why? Not only is it because we have moved away from a love of '80s fashion and because we're usually taller and bigger than everybody else. but also because we're confused most of the time when traveling abroad. Then. in compensation for our lack of under­standing, we get freaking loud. We have loud conversations with lots of loud expressions in hopes of figuring things out. 
I was with a fellow American once who was looking for a T-shirt in Greece. The lucky Greek she was attempting to communicate with wasn't quite clear about what she desired. She got louder, of course, using a variety of hand motions so that he figured she wanted a blouse, but, no, she wanted a T-shirt. At this point, I interjected, stat­ing that perhaps the blouse and the T­shirt were one and the same. Both my fellow American and the Greek looked at me with contempt and continued not dialoguing well. 
I am not advocating that one knows beforehand how the entire rest of the world lives in order to travel anywhere. Yet I, for one. would rather people thought I was more similar to them than different as Americans have a ten­dency of being ripped off when paying for hotels. taxis. food, et cetera. in other countries. Like Kenny Rogers once said, "You've got to know when to hold them, know when to fold them, know when to walk away. know when to run," and. or course, "you never count your money when you're sittin' at the table," since there will be time enough for counting later. In fact, it helps the reputation of all Americans when you are travel savvy. So if' not for yourself. do it for your country. 
For certain, one will encounter obsta­cles and perils galore when traveling abroad. yet it is surely worth every over-priced. misinterpreted difficulty. if for nothing more than the sense of sat­isfaction when arriving back in the kindly "U-S-of-A." Moreover, when you have been awake for a multitude of hours and you leave your camera with pictures of you in the Swiss Alps on a train bound for other lands, you will find that the ways of handling stress in other countries can be just as good as American ways. 
You might find grabbing a baguette and some fine wine (incidentally, French wine is much cheaper in France). stopping in a pastry shop or buying a crep1~. then sitting and pon­dering something beautiful is very ther­apeutic. Little can remain tragic after it has been pondered, especially if it has been pondered while sipping lots of line wine. But. sec, if you never travel abroad you would never know this stuff. 
You also would not give too much thought to foot-and-mouth disease. which, by the way. has the potential for restructuring the entirn system of eat­ing in many parts of Europe and per­haps the entire world. This information I learned from a German who was none-too-happy the French port­authorities had let some tainted sheep onto mainland Europe. It is always important to know where your meat is coming from -another line reason to experience other cultures. experiencing them in a quiet way_. of course. 
Anna Barbour is a junior theology and pre-med major. Her column appears every other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
DILBERT 
DO YOU HAVE 
ANY ADVICE FOR MY JOB INTERVIEW? 
'---~--~~i 


SCOTT ADAMS 
0
E 
• C
0 
'i 
TR..Y JUGGLING 
'ii 
50fl..fl..Y
~ 
0 
@ 
THE ITEMS ON 

'ii E 
., 
..C
HIS DESK. IT
..
,. 
"' 
E 8 
t 
QI 
:9 

QUOTE OF THE DAY . 
''We all grumble about the weather. but nothing is done about it." 
Mark Twain author 
weather for up-to-the minute foreca.m 
adv,:rtise for policie, and rates of print ads 
archives 10 search for articles published after At1g<1st 1999 

movies/music for weekly srudenr revi= 
online features for spe­cial campus coverage 
about The Observer 

IO meet rhe edirors and staff 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofche University ofNom: Dame du Lac and Saine Mary's Collq:e. Edirorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither inscicution. The Observer reserves rhe right ro refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objecrively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the maJOrity of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, As.sisrant Managing Editor and department editors. Comrnc·ntaries, letters and columns present the views of the JLithors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free cxpre'i.>mn ofall opinions 1hrough leners is encouraged. Letters ro the Editor must be signed and mrrsr include contact information. 
Question, regarding Obm--,m· poiicm should lu dir~ct­,dto Editor i11 Ch"fMik, Connolly. 


VIEWPOINT 
Monday, March 26, 2001 OBSERVER page 11 
What they don't want you to hear 
In these very pages, much ink has been printed concerning "Yo Mama's Last Supper," the painting displayed in New York which portrays Jesus as a naked black woman. Like clockwork, Mavor Rudolph Giuliani · attacked the piece as ,,,,..,.,,..,.,..----~,.., anti-Catholic. Just as predictably. critics, including some in The Observer. excoriated Giuliani for attempted censorship. Those anti-censorship hawks may want to examine a couple of recent events. 
A private group that has borrowed Questionable audio cxcerpls from a Freedoms Dec. 1962 speech by John F. Kennedy for 2000 use in radio ads in support of President Bush's tax cut plan has drawn ire from, predictably, Senator Edward Kennedy. Teddy lambasted the group, Issues Management Center (IMC), for appearing to put words in JFK's mouth. However, because the President was his brother, Teddy feels comfortable committing the same sin: "If President Kennedy were here today, he would vig­orously oppose President Bush's irre­sponsible tax scheme." Senator Kennedy believes IMC is prac­ticing political grave robbing by invoking the Kennedy name to try to cash in for George W. Bush. Sounds like a reason­able consideration, but it's a ruse to 
Mike Marchand 

cover up the dirty little secret: JFK's tax plan was more generous to the wealthy! Kennedy proposed reducing the tax rate on the wealthiest Americans from an out­rageous 91 percent to an only-slightly­less outrageous 65 percent, for a near 30 percent cut. 
By comparison, the Bush plan drops the top rate from 39.6 to 33 percent, just a 17 percent reduction. 
It is true that more of Bush's plan is devoted to the wealthy than Kennedy's; however, there are many more rich peo­ple than 40 years ago. In addition, the numbers for the Bush plan are skewed since ~wants to eliminate the confisca­tory estate tax. But even then, today we're looking at budget surpluses ­since Kennedy proposed his bold plan in the midst of a federal deficit, wouldn't his be the more "irresponsible scheme" by Teddy's terms? 
The plain and simple truth that Teddy Kennedy doesn't want you to know is that his brother was a good. old-fash­ioned, jolly-rockin', supply-sidin' tax slasher. His speech bears out the fact that he was more in the vein of Ronald Reagan and George W. Bush than his own brother is today. It wasn't always that way: In a twist of delicious irony, when Lyndon Johnson proposed a modi­fied version of the Kennedy plan which reduced the top rate from 91 to 70 per­cent in 1964, Senator Kennedy voted for it. How times have changed. 
Times haven't changed too much, how­ever, at the University of California­Berkeley, the venerable institution that has trained young minds to be top-notch protesters for decades. Most recently, angry students stormed the office of the UCB newspaper, The Daily Californian, and threw a tantrum. Others spread out across campus and swiped any issues of the Daily Cal they could find, 
What provoked such a drastic response? The Daily Cal and a handful of other college newspapers printed an ad authored by left-wing-radical-turned­right-wing-radical David Horowitz called "Ten Reasons Why Reparations For Slavery Is A Bad Idea -And Racist Too." The essay, clearly demarcated as a paid advertisement and not an editorial. was provocative, but remarkably civil and surprisingly cerebral. And recent polls suggest that a vast majority of Americans do not support reparations. However, those arc of little consequence to the pro­testers, who found the ad ideologically offensive and attempted to censor it as much as possible. 
The difference between now and the hey day protests of the '60s is that now the fight is to destroy free speech and open discourse. These people would probably support something as blatant as "Yo Mama's Last Supper" as worthy of discussion. Like it or not, Horowitz's ad deserves that same treatment in the arena of ideas. But instead, the protes­tors took it upon themselves to silence a viewpoint they didn't like. And, unbeliev­ably. the Daily Cal capitulated, not only issuing an apology, but berating itself as "an inadvertent vehicle for bigotry." By summarizing the ad as "bigotry," The Daily Cal effectively cosponsored the cen­sorship of Horowitz's views. 
Thankfully, the Daily Cal is receiving its own backlash, spearheaded by Horowitz, who was a Berkeley graduate in its hal­cyon days of protecting outrageous speech. But even those who were offend­ed joined the traditional anti-political correctness crowd in defending Horowitz's right to express his beliefs. In another good sign, the journalists of Brown University's Brown Daily Herald and the University of Wisr,onsin's Badger­Herald stood up for the First Amendment and held their ground against similar reactions as the Berkeley protesters. Brown's administration and student American Civil Liberties Union (hardly right-wing apologists) condemned the activists who stole copies of the Daily Herald. 
Censorship does not always come from neo-fascists. and it may be cloaked in rails against indecency and racism. But it is still silencing of people who deserve to make their point. But if you don't hear these views, you can't believe them. That's what the censors are betting on. 
Mike Marchand is an off-campus senior English major who wants to create a Bookstore Basketball team named "Our Points Are Bent To The Right. "Interested players who don't mind public embar­rassment can e-mail him at Marchand.3@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Fix meal plans 
I used to think that our meal plans were pretty nice. No waiting in checkout lines. All you can eat buffet. No cash, just a card swipe. Convenient location. However, now I realize what a rip off meal plans really are, and I am tired of being bilked. 
This year a meal plan is $1,765. If you are on the 21-meal plan and eat every single one, you are paying $5.25 per meal. If instead you only make it to 16 of those meals a week (as the dining hall expects you will) this jumps up to $6.90. For those ofus choosing to be ripped off by Flex, we forfeit one-third of our meals in return for one-eighth of our money back, but that can only go to purchases at Notre Dame Food Service out­lets and at retail prices. 
Flex subscribers are still paying $6.90 for meals in the dining hall. Now I'll admit that $6.90 is pretty good for buffet, but it is outra­geous for the four items and one entree that comes with a grab-n­go. What is worse is that all resi­dents must pay for this up front. 
Every time you miss a meal you are getting gouged that $6.90. If you leave town for the weekend and miss five meals, you just threw away $34.50 in unclaimed meals. Next time you are at Chili's thinking what a great deal a dou­ble order of fajitas, just tack on the seven bucks worth of dining hall food that you already paid for but neglected to eat and see if it still seems all that inexpensive. 
Notre Dame Food Services has a monopoly on what we cat and how much we pay for it. There are neither adequate facilities in dormitories for residents to cook for themselves nor sufficient pri­vately owned establishments within a reasonable distance of campus to offer any alternatives to meal plans. They take advan­tage of this monopoly with their unfair prices, their hours and their menus. 
The solution to this problem is simple: Charge us only for the meals we eat. 
The cardswipe system in place can be modified to record meals consumed instead of weekly and daily meals remaining. NDFS can demand seven dollars or more a meal, but I wager we would see a steep decrease in dining hall patronage and an increase in trips to Martin's. The expense to attend school here is high enough. It's high time that Food Services stops fleecing us students with living expenses as well. 
Until we start to see these changes, just handle the dining halls like I do. When you are 10 minutes late and the card swiper tells you the dining hall is closed, ignore her and walk right in. After all, you already paid for the meal. 
It's just sitting in the steam table getting cold and waiting for you to eat it. 
And help yourself to some addi­tional walk-out items as well. I'm sure the $6.90 breakfast you missed will cover the cost of the second bagel. 
Jeremy Heilman senior Saint Edward's Hall Mm:h 25, 200I 

Legitimized guns enable school violence 
1am writing in response to Scott Brodfuehrer's column of March 23 entitled, "Violence hurts." While I commend Mr. Brodfuehrer for taking the time to discuss this extremely important issue, I have to question his approach to the topic of school violence. We should question the validity of Mr. Brodfuehrer's claim that "these shootings con­tinue to be especially disturbing because they do not occur in a violence-ridden area." While he seems shocked by the fact that these crimes are taking place even in "small Catholic schools," his analysis of the situation as a whole is per­functory and lacks any real depth. 
Ask the big question, Why do school shootings continue to happen in America? Regardless of where they take place, the perpetrators of these acts of violence make the same claims: They feel alone, rejected, mocked or unloved. Whether the motive behind the shooting is anger, revenge, bigotry or an attempt to regain a feel­ing of control in their lives. the young Americans who are picking up guns and threat­ening their fellow students feel left behind. The angst associated with being a teenager is not new -ever seen "Heathers?" -but something in our society has created this evolution in how young adults express their frustrations. 
Perhaps it's the individualistic nature of American society that keeps these young gun­men from feeling that they can turn to another person to express their emotions. Perhaps it's this same characteristic that allows us to some­how justify permitting private citizens' owner­ship offirearms, despite the fact that nearly every other civilized nation in the world con• demns it. 
However, blaming the schools is not the answer. When children and teens plan to com­mit this type ofcrime, they tell someone. A recent article in Time noted that 75 percent of the perpetrators ofschool shootings told some­one what they were planning before they took action. Schools have to rely on their students to come forward with this information. Is it logical to assume that an unhappy, lonely, angry 15­year-old is going to walk up to his high school principal and announce that he's planning on bringing a gun to school tomorrow? Of course not. 
Massive administrative ineptitude is not the cause of these shootings. As the daughter of a high school administrator, I have seen my moth­er worry about the emotional state, home lives and personal lives of students in her high school. I have seen her and her staff try to take measures that would prevent a school shooting from happening. Believe me, Mr. Brodfuehrer, when I say that the students are most definitely not the only line of defense! 
There is no longer a school in the country that has the luxury of thinking that it couldn't hap­pen in its halls. But if the adults who are in con­tact with a child disregard his threats of vio­lence, even the most "proactive" school can't be chastised for not picking up on the signs. 
And please, don't think that the fact that these shootings are happening in white suburban schools makes them more worthy of our atten­tion than any other form of gun-related violence that is going on in our country today. "Violence hurts" no matter where it is perpetrated. No matter by whom it is perpetrated. The young lives that were cut short by school violence were tragically lost, but their parents' pain is shared by the parents of a 6-year-old child who was killed playing with her father's gun, the parents of a young girl who was accidentally shot in a drive-by, and the parents of a 17-year-old boy who was shot because he was working behind the counter ofthe wrong convenient store on the wrong day. As long as guns are readily available in our country, I guarantee you, Mr. Brodfuehrer, the violence will continue. 
. 
Melissa R. Beiting senior 
Walsh Hall March 23. 2001 



Can you ban 
The Notre Dame Department of Music and the Notre J 
"Serse," which translates into English "Xerxes" as he is with the show
By C. SPENCER BEGGS 

as "Xerxes." (Pronounced like itself. In fact, in his production,
Assisr,ur Scene Ediror Zerksees) the show has been taken out of Written in 1738, "Xerxes" is one of Persia in the fifth century c.e.
Ilcri~•s the deal. You are in love with 
more than 40 operas Handel com­and brought into the 1820s. 
a girl. who coincidentally is in love 
posed between 1711 and his death in Verzatt wants to give the audi­with your brother. Luckily (for you), 1759. The original opera was sung in ence a new look at the 0P41ra.
you are the king of Persia and your 
Italian, but Nicholas Hytner created an "The whole idea of the stereotyp­
brotht\r -albeit much more hand­
English version of the show in 1985, ical opera performance has been
sonw, glib and intelligent-is not. So 
which the Notre Dame Opera will use what mv whole life has be1rnnow, you have to win the consent to for this production. about breaking," Verzatt said. 
marry her both from her and from her 
Handel wrote "Xerxes" during the Instead of the stiff, padded cos­father, a man who also happens to be 
Baroque period in the Western Arts. tumes that mark too many mod­the commander of your army, which is The Baroque style is generally denoted ern opera performances, Verzatt
poised to invade Europe. 

by grandeur. explicit sensuality and wanted to do something a little
Good thing you have your love inter­emotional tension. Any given five min­more fashionable.
est's jealous and scheming sister, trag­utes of "Xerxes" is absolutely smoth­"We decided that we wanted
ically in love with your brother as 
ered with such stylistic markers. [the costumes to have] a very
:well, to aid you in your treachery. 

The historical Xerxes and Handel's sexy feel to them," he said.
So. you exile your brother and force depiction of the Persian king have lit­The music Handel wrote is veryhis girlfriend to marry you. Everything tle-to do with each other. The real sexual in nature and the produc­looks good, right? Wrong! You forgot Xerxes I of Persia was, in fact, the tion staff wanted the look of the
about the impending delivery of your younger of the two sons of Darius I show to reflect that. "It was amail-order bride, or rather, mail-order and named heir apparent. much to his very sexy era," Verzatt says ofprincess who is posing as a man and 
brother's chagrin. He was also not a the new time period.
in the company of' your triumphant spoiled and tyrannical despot as Stylish costumes are not the
army. Oh yeah, you're also 15. 

Handel's opera depicts him, but, by only changes Verzatt has broughtSound something like the plotline 
most accounts, a more charismatic to the classic.
from your favorile soap opera? Well, 
leader. "This particular story lends
you're close. Actually, the tale of lusl, 
Marc Verzatt. the director of the itself to a highly theatrical pre­treachery and cross-dressing is from 
show being performed at Notre Dame, sentation. There is not a timeGeorg Frideric Handel's opera 
is not as concerned with the history of [period] precisely, nor does it have anything to do with history; it has everything to do with people and their rela­tionships with each other," he said. 
Verzatt sees Xerxes' story of lust and jeal­ousy as a part of the teenage experience. 
"[ chose to make Ithe characters] teenagers because they're highly volatile, passionate people 

caught up in affairs of Notre Dame Opera director Mac Verzatt contem1 the heart," Verzatt ing one of her solo pieces. Verzatt is an Adjunct said. "When you're, ly appointed a co-artistic director of the Lake 
15, 16, 17 years old York. and you start to date, you don't know the difference between sex­Verzatt said. drive and love, you just As Verzatt and the cast explored want to be with somebody new ways to present thr emotion con­... The opera's about all tained in the music they were sur­these very complicated prised to find how naturally the libret­
-teenage emotions." to seemed to already contain the very 
The theatrical aspect of themes they wanted to stress. the music is what draws The Notre Dame Opera's production Verzatt to the opera. of "Xerxes" focuses on the natural the­
"[ don't wa:nt our audi­atrical nature of the show. ence to come in and expect "If I am going to ask people to spend it to be just two, or two any old and half hours opera. I sitting in a 
think opera "I chose to make [the show that 
audience arc characters] teenagers direct, then entitled to my responsi­
because they 're highly
the same bility to the 
type of the-volatile, passionate people audience ater that caught up in affairs of the become enor­they get mous, says
heart." 
when the the director. R o y a 1 And Verzatt Shakespeare Marc Verzatt plans to give Company director of the Notre Dame Opera tho audience tours here," tlwir rnonev·s he said. worth. ­
In particu-Verzatt is an lar, he feels that he can Adjunct Professor in Opera at Notre draw on his own experi­Dame. He began his career as a ence as a teenager lo help dancer with the Metropolitan OpPra. direct the show. Later. he joined the Cincinnati and 
"I was a highly romantic Pittsburgh Opera companies as a stage teenager who loved the manager and subsequently served as idea of being in love," assistant stage director for the Lyric 


Monday, March 26, 2001 page 13 
die Hiindel? 
ame Opera present a modern. production of 'Xerxes" 
Orchestra of London. However, the show needs not 
Info Box
rest on the laurels of its director 

and conductor to win the interest . The Notre Dame Department of Music and of an audience. As the cast and 
the Notre Dame Opera present Handel's
crew will attest, the score and 
story itself gives the show plenty "Xerxes." 
of depth. With about 50 musical 

. Washington Hall Theater
numbers, the opera begins tran­quilly and continues to build into . Marcil 30 and 31 at 7:30 p.m. a twisted web of love triangles, . Tickets are available at Lafortune Student 
schemes and perfidy. 

i:enter Box Office or by calling (219) 631-8128.
The show begins with Xerxes (played by gr.actuate student . $6 for general admission, $3 for students Matthew Coffman). sitting beneath 
and senior citizens. 
a tree and becoming enchanted 
with the lovely voice of Rornilda 
(voiced by the talented Paula 

motions; Verzatt considers the process
Kearney, also a graduate student). 

a learning experience for the actors as
Although, traditionally ignored 


well as the audience. He is extremely
for the rest of the show, the direc­

attentive to fine details. During any
tor decided to use the tree as a 

given scene. he stops multiple times to 
part of the set for the rest of the 

work on body positions and emotions, 
opera. It serves as the meeting 

However, Verzatt is anything but the
place for the various pairings of 

classic temperamental director, The
lovers, hiding places for spies and 

cast reports learning a lot from his 
even as a dueling field during 

directorial style,
impassioned challenges. 

"'"forking on the show has been
Xerxes, infatuated by Romilda, 

challenging. In the end it has made me 
attempts to woo her but finds out 

a better singer and a better actor,"
that she is in love with his brother 

Michael Holderer says. Holderer plays
Arsamenes (played by graduate 

Elvira, the buffo servant who presents
student Michelle Holden). 

comic relief and performs the real
Enraged, Xerxes banishes his 

"dirty work" in the show.
brother. Romilda's envious sister, 

Hold erer enjoys the staging of
Atalanta (played by junior Anney 

"Xerxes." He likes it better than the
Gillotte), tricks Xerxes into believ­

unintelligible· modern abstract style or
ing that Arsamenes is actually in 

the plainness of Baroque style staging.
love with her and encourages 

The cast also contains a large cho­
Xerxes in his suit of Romilda. 

rus. Unlike the standard chorus, this
Fooled by Atalanta's treachery, 

one has an integral part in the show.
Xerxes forces Romilda to agree to 

"I like how each member of the cho­
marry him with her father's con­

rus was encourage to develop their
sent. The king then goes to Ariodates (performed by junior Jeff Palenik). Rornilda and Atalanta's

C. SPENCER BEGGS/The Observer 
father as well as the

lates the staging of Romilda (Paula Kearney) dur­
commander of his army,

rofessor in Opera at Notre Dame and was recent­
and asks that Romilda 

eorge Opera Festival in Saratoga Springs, New 
be allowed to marry a 
nobleman. 

Of course, Ariodates Opera of Chicago. Recently, he was gives his consent thinking named Co-Artistic Director for the that the "nobleman" would Lake George Opera Festival in be Arsarnenes. When Xerxes Saratoga Springs, New York. Later this leaves he promptly marries year, he will be staging Strauss's the two lovers. "Ariadne auf N axos" for the Festival. When Xerxes returns and 
Of course, no opera could run very discovers his brother in mat­well, or even at all, without a conduc­rimony ,vith the object of his tor. The 2001 season will be John affections, he demands that Apetios' sixth season as a Notre Dame Rornilda kill herself for Associate b e i n g Professor and unfaithful. guest conduc­All seems tor of the lost until
"Working on the show has been
Notre Dame the young 
Opera. challenging. In the end it has man that 
Apctios is made me a better singer and a Ariodates international­has been
better actor."
ly known for traveling 
performing w i t h 
as permanent Michael Holderer reveals 
guest conduc• actor/singer himself, or 
tor with the rather 
C z C C h herself, as 
Philharmonic Amastris 
Orchestra. He even had a series of (played by the versatile 
scholarships established in his name Hannah Neufeld, a graduate 
by the Cyprus Hellenic Alliance of student), Xerxes' betrothed 
Victoria in 1989 for his contribution to princess from a foreign 
Australian musical culture. Apetios country. Xerxes realizes his 
has served as a member of the panel selfishness, forgives his 
of judges in numerous international brother and apologizes to 
opera competitions. After "Xerxes," Amastris. 
Apetios plans to conduct a Celebrity Rehearsal has been more 
Opera Gala with the Philharmonic than going through the 
., 
own character," Kristen Moskow, a member of the chorus, said. The cho­rus plays the part of citizens. soldiers and servants. 
For Verzatt it does not just boil down to trying to make opera inter­esting. He sees it as much more than that. 
"This is a learning experience too," he says. He feels that opera is already fascinating; opera does not have to be made interesting because it already is captivating. 'Tm not just trying to, I am making it interesting," Verzatt said. 
The Notre Dame Opera was founded in 1991. Some members are voice or theater majors and get credit for par­ticipating in the show. However, some members of the cast participate because of their interest in opera per­formance and not for credit. During fall semesters, the group puts on a show of pieces from selected operas with special emphasis on techniques learned in class. Each spring, the group performs a full-length opera wfth a full orchestra. Last year they performed Humperdinck's "Hansel and Gretel." Other performances have included Poulenc's "Dialogues of the Carmelites" in 1999 and Mozart's "Cosl fan tutte," a close musical rela­tive of "Xerxes," in 1996. 
"Xerxes" will be performed in Washington Hall Theater March 30 and 31 at 7:30 p.m. General admission is $6, or $3 for students and senior citizens. Tickets are available at the Lafortune Student Center Box Office or by calling (219) 631-8128. 

March Madness doesn't stop with Notre Dame loss 
The Notre Dame men's basketball team's experience in the NCAA tournament this year kind of resembled my recent foray into the stand-up comedy circuit. 
The first round went reallv well, but the second time around, · we both hit some ------~ 
snags. 
The Irish marked their return to the Big Dance after 11 years of not being asked by getting down all over the Xavier Musketeers. 
David Graves was a perfect 7-7 from the floor, Matt Carroll an impressive 9-11. 

Fox Sports ...
Notre Dame led bv 
Almost
14 at the break and 
then made like Kathy 
Lee and Carnival 
cruised its way to an 83-71 win. 

But the hot shooting that played such a huge role in the first round win vanished in Notre Dame's second round loss to Ole Miss. Martin lngelsby was the only Notre Dame starter to shoot above 36 percent from the tloor, going 3-6. The Irish as a team only shot 29 percent from the field but still trailed by just two when they took over on their last offensive set of the game. 
However, David Sanders got a hand on Carroll's effort to draw the Irish even, and the Rebels went on to win 59-56, grabbing the school's first ever Sweet 16 birth. 
For the Notre Dame players, first and foremost, and then for all their fans, both those who date back to the days of Digger and those who are members of the M.O.B generation, a loss wasn't the way the story should have ended. 
Fortunately, it didn't. 

For a program that for many years only experienced the madness of mediocrity, back-to-back 20 win seasons, a division title, and a trip first to the NIT final and then the NCAAs have once again made Notre Dame more than a·speed bump on the road to the Final Four. 
The future is the home of many possibili­ties for the ND men's basketball program. For the fans, that future starts next season. 
For the players, that future starts today. 
In the meantime, and luckily for all of us college hoops fans, the madness that is March doesn't stop with a Notre Dame loss. 

Like every year. I sat down on the first Thursday of the tournament, first enjoying the wall-to-wall basketball, and second, waiting to see that I had correctly picked the winners of all 63 games. 
I'm still enjoying all the games. 
That second thing about picking all 63 games? Well, that lasted until the end of game one on day one, when Ohio State lost to Utah State in overtime. 
Every year. I think because I've been watching basketball for even longer than before and now I try to write about it, I'm somehow going to pick more games right. 
Unfortunately, if picking games was cal­culus, my derivative would be negative, because the more I watch, the fewer games I get right. 
But the best part about being a fan of the NCAA tournament is that being right or wrong doesn't really matter. 
Sure, most of us, and 99.2 percent of people picking at espn.com, said the two seed in the West, Iowa State, would blow by the No. 15 seed Hampton, in the first round. 
But late Thursday night. when Hampton went on that improbable run to take a one point lead with six seconds left, how many of us were still rooting for the Cyclones' Jamaal Tinsley to hit that layup as the clock ran out? 
All of us have our March moments, moments that make this month the most engaging time of year to be a sports fan. 
Maybe you sat there with your dad, a Kent State alumnus, and boldly told him the Golden Flashes would find a way to topple Indiana and then jumped around your family room with him when they actu­ally did. 
Maybe you picked Wake Forest to make a run in the Midwest, starting with a win over Butler, only to watch that little score­board in the upper left-hand corner of the screen read Butler 43, Wake 10 at half­time. Perhaps you then colorfully asked how a seven seed in the Big Dance scores 10 points in 20 minutes of basketball. 
And you loved every minute of it. 
Now, with a Notre Dame program that has once again discovered what it takes to be a tournament contender, there's no telling where March can go. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


Vandy 
continued from page 24 

great players," Foster said. "Bill Russell/Wilt Chamberlain, Larry Bird/Magic Johnson... You need someone to challenge you, to take you to another dimension to see if your greatness can surface." 
The game also features an intriguing dual of tiny leaders at the point. Vanderbilt's 5-6 sopho­more Ashley McElhiney averages 
7.2 points and 6.1 assists per game, Notre Dame's fifth-year senior Niele Ivey, an inch taller at 5-7, averages 12 points and seven assists per game. 
"Definitely she's the heart and soul of Vanderbilt," Ivey said of McElhiney. "She's a feisty player. She's also a great floor leader. I definitely have a great match-up against her." 
McElhiney sustained a stress fracture in her left foot three min­utes into Vanderbilt's Jan. 27. loss at Georgia. The point guard missed the next three games, two of which Vanderbilt lost. 
While both teams have premier point guards and centers, McGraw predicts that, barring foul trouble by one of the stars, the game will be determined by the teams' other players. 
"Ruth is going to have a great game, Chantelle is going to have a great game," McGraw said. "The difference is going to come down to the other three players on the floor." 
While the Commodores finished fourth in the SEC behind Tennessee, Florida and Georgia, Vanderbilt is the only conference team still competing. Late-season victories over Tennessee and Georgia proved that Foster's team is a force to be reckoned with. 
"Sometimes Vanderbilt teams are seen as being soft and not able to handle a lot of the physical play thrown at us," Anderson said. "I think we've proven a lot of the peo­ple saying that wrong this year." 
Notes: 
. Vanderbilt assistant coach Pete Gaudet was an assistant men's coach under Mike Krzyzewski from 1983-84 through 1994-95, serving on the same bench as current Irish head coach Mike Brey. Gaudet served as interim head coach when Krzyzewski battled back problems in 1994-95. Under Gaudet's direc­tion, Duke went 4-15, finishing with its only losing season in the last 18 years. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from Ba.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 
024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit
CLASSIFIEDS 

all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
SUMMER CAMP POS1TIONS: Indiana Catholic couple with huge 2 BR HOUSE PERFECT FOR SIN-PHONE CARDS Need a dress for upcoming Make a difference in the life of a hearts wishing to adopt a child. We GLE/COUPLE $300/MO. Dave 291-$20: SYR's/Formals?? I'm selling sever-WANTED childl Summer therapy camp for can provide your baby with lots of 2209 2601 MIN WITH 49 CENT SUR-al formal dresses that have only 
children with disabilities. Located on love and a secure, stable lite. CHARGE been worn once. Fraternit1es'Sororities shore of Lake Superior near Big Reasonable expenses will be paid. 2-4 PERSON HOUSE FOR RENT. or Call 284-4446 for inlo. Glubs'Sludent Groups Bay, Ml. Positions available for For more into, please call Rebecca NEWLY RENOVATED. THREE $20 Earn $1,000-$2,000 this semester Counselors, Lifeguards, Instructors re Larry &Kathy: toll-free 1-866-30-BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. CALL 362 MIN WITH NO FEES Spring Break Appetizer with the easy for Nature/Arts & ADOPT 219-298-3800. Mexican Blankets from $12.95 + 
Campusfundraiser.com three hour Crafts/Recreation/Canoeing, 634-1146 CLAUDIA S&H tundraising event No sales Nurses, Therapists, Food Service, 3 Houses still available for 2001-02. 634-421 0 SARA Mexiconnection.com required. Fundraising dates are till-and Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic, 5-6 BR, Furnished, W/D, prime
FOR RENT

ing quickly, so call loday! Contact responsible, and love children. June locations, 233-9947 Greg. Beautiful brass bed, queen size, 
Campusfundraiser.com at (888) 17 through August 12. Salary, with orthopedic mattress set and 
PERSONAL

923-3238, or visit www,campus-Room & Board, and experience ot a 3-8 bedroom homes furn. Near New home Fall 2001. This 3+ bdrm, deluxe frame. All new, never used, fundraiser com lifetime provided. Call or write tor campus 2001 /02&summer 272-3 bath home is close to campus still in plastic. $235 
application and infonnation Bay 6306 with features like fireplace, cathe-219-862-2082 I need to go home Early childhood substitute teachers Cliff Health Camp, 310 W. dral ceilings, family room, deluze needed for area childhood centers Washington, Suite 300, Marquette, HOUSES FOR RENT: 1)4-br appliances, 24x30 garage. Unique Notre Dame Football Hey Craig, tor a tour-week period. Ml 49855, (906)228-5770, e-mail $700/month 2)3-br. $600/month $1400/mo. Gall 219-232-4527 or College Painting What's going on? 
BayCliffHC@aol.com We'll make almost any changes to 616·683-5038 15 FT. 5 in X 4 FT 7 in. Pictured: say hi to jess tor me. lr.1onnational meeting Wednesday, the houses. The Gipp, Knute Rockne, Ara, March 28, 9 a.m. charles martin LOSE WEIGHT! EAT WHAT YOU Call Bill at 675-0n6 Nice 3-bdrm, 1-1/2 bath Devine, Holtz, Leahy, 4 horsemen Julie, youth center, lower level, IUSB LIKE! Tri-level, family room, fireplace, w/names on horseback, Fathers Here's your classified. room,914 Lincolnway West, South WEIGHT WATCHERS ON CAM-Furnished condos available for blue fenced backyard, 2-car garage. Joyce and Hesburgh, Touchdown Enjoy! Bend, IN PUS SERVICE and gold game. Ivy residential $995/mo. Jesus, Golden Dome, Stadium, 
(219) 273-4896 Call-219-232-4527 or 616663-5038 Holtz coming out of tunnel with oh girl 
Need babysitter, pref. Early ed Your super-convenient dream diet team, Dates of all championships, major, own trans. 2-yr. -old by from a name you trust is coming to 4-BR HOUSE! CENTRAL AIR SEC 3-bdrm home 2 blcks from campus Call 219-784-2104 , oh boy Martins 272-1205 Notre Darnel No complicated count-SYS ETC. $600/MONTH. 291·2209 Fall 01. 273-1566 PICTURED ON 
ingl Eat piua, cookies, fa!II food Mi11.Qli~mi1.tll11a11 Q[g WEBMASTER@BLUEAND-almost done CHILDCARE NEEDED: any food you crave and lose weight. GOLD.COM 
Get Info-packed booklets, tons of Bed and Breakfast for ND and SMC FOR SALE just a little more ND prof needs childcare In home T-super-easy recipes, samples of graduation Europe $199 one way. Th mornings, ideally 9-2 but al least your great snack bars and special-3 miles from ND SPRING BREAK-DOWNTOWN Mexico/Caribbean or Central Jack, 9·1. Three great kids, 5,3, 1 . Large i:r:ed ooline support from trained 2 rooms lett CHICAGO! America $250 round trip + tax. how was your weekend? comfortable home 1 mile trom cam-Weight Watchers staff. You pay just 287-4545 Other worldwide destinations try not to set lire to anything this pus. $59 for 5 weeks. Summer Is just $22-25/nighl-Hos!elling lnt'I $2 OFF cheap. If you can beat these prices week. Own transportation required. around the comer register today 3-5 bedroom homes WITH AD start your own darn airline! Please call 631-3654 days, over lhe phone: 1-800-572-5727. close to campus Book tickets online goodnight 289-3865 evening:, Visa, MasterCard, and Discover 232-2595 312/380·0300 or www airtech com or email meissner.1@fld_edu Accepted mmmrenlals@aol.com www Uictljcago org or(8TT) AIRTECH bye 
, Monday, March 26, 200 l The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish recruit Tho01as leads Pike to state cha01pionship 

By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Sports W ritcr 
INDIANAPOLIS 
For the second time in four sea­sons at Indianapolis Pike High School. Irish men's basketball recruit Chris Thomas went out with a win. 
On Saturday, Pike captured the Class 4A State Championship by beating Penn 56-42, and Thomas completed the circle he began as a freshman when Pike snagged its first state title. . · 
"It's more special," Thomas said of this year's state title. "I played more of a decisive role on the team-." 
In 1998, Tho.mas was the first player off the bench on Coach Alan Darner's championship team. In the 2001 title game, the future Notre Drune player led all scorers with 20 points. captured the Trester Award for the ouL<;tanding senior athlete in the finals and moved into 11th place on the all-time Indiana scoring list with 2,156 career points. 
"Chris has meant a great deal to our program," said Darner, who is retiring after 30 years of coaching. "He's won two state championships. I think we've been ranked in the top five in the state all four years that Chris has been there." 

Thoma.s scored all eight of Pike's first-quarter points as the Red Devils took an 8-5 lead, yet his defense was perhaps as impressive as his ability to score at will. 
Thomas held Penn's Marques Husband, who averages 15 points per game, scoreless in the first peri­od. He recorded four steals in the game, getting his first points of the game by picking a Kingsman's pock­et at halfcourt then breaking away for a layup. 
A favorite to win Indiana's Mr. Basketball award, Thomas and his teammates stifled Penn until they took a 48-21 lead in the fourth quarter and began celebrating the victory. Before Husband, Jim Modlin and Brady Biancardi let off a stream of 3s, Pike was on pace to hold Penn to the lowest output in a state finals game since 1942. when Muncie Borris scored just 18 points. 
"Our defense, hands down, won us the game," Thomas said. 
Adding Thomas's defense to the Irish next season should better Notre Dame's ability to hold its own in man-to-man matchups with opponents. Penn couldn't get by Thomas, and many college oppo­nents will likely fail in the same 
. attempt. Not that Thomas only stands out in preventing opponents from scor­ing. He and teammate David Teague. were a lethal combination on offense. The two seniors, who wore matching red wristbands pulled up around their elbows, scored 22 of Pike's 26 first-half points as the Red Devils entered halftime ahead by 10. Teague, a 6-foot-4 forward who was not even good enough to make the freshman team nor the junior varsity team as a sophomore, finally made the JV cut as a junior, when he averaged 30 points per game. This year, he movnd up to join Thomas on varsity and average 15 1 points per game, with his future open to a Division I career at Purdue. Central Michigan, Bowling Green or Drake. Pike's best-known player, Thomas, went 9-for-20 as he 
THE 
RECOMMENDS 

"What makes A Conspiracy of Paper so readable is that Liss manages to create a number of arresting side plots featuring everything from the London underworld to boxing to social mores to English anti~semitism." 
-James Polk, New York Times 


*Edgar Award Nominee! 

"It will leave readers feeling as though they're finishing a conversation with a wise and learned friend: satisfied, thoughtful and hoping to hear more from this perceptive observer of our continuing cultural transformation." 
-Martha Beck, New York Times 
Bibliotherapy ensures you'll always find the right literary prescription-no matter what phase of life you're teetering on the brink of! If you like Bibliotherapy, check out Cinematherapy! 
NJ\!,,y -MK,-Ali~ 1t.,t~-,.'f Wt~,
HAMMES 

,,,_.,.,_.., ~.~.....,,..,.,,. r,...<,,.<1,Cll-.M(o u,M""",:,,..!:,·ay ,\....,~ 

NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
played all but the final one 
minute, 27 seconds. The 6-1 
point guard managed two slam­
dunks. The second was spectac­
ular, as Thomas swiped the ball, 
dribbled coast-to-coast and 
spun around midair to jam in 
the reverse dunk. 
Despite his acrobatics, 
Thomas seemed surprised to 
win the Trester Award. 
"It's a very unexpected honor to win the award," Thomas said, who heaped praise on Teague and Keith Borgan after the game. "I think anybody on the team could win the award. It's just a great feeling to win the Trester Award and win the State Championship." 
He had no time to rest follow­
ing Saturday's title game. He 
was set to leave his house at 
5:30 a.m. Sunday to prepare for the McDonald's All-American game in North Carolina. He was also selected for the upcoming Capital Classic in early April. 
Once Thomas finishes the upcoming round of All-Star games, he'll turn his attention to joining the ranks of the Irish, where Coach Mike Brey has him penciled in to replace graduat­ing Martin lngelsby at the point. 
'Tm hoping to be the starting 
point guard. I've got to work for 
that," Thomas said. "I talked to 
a couple of the guys [on the 
Notre Dame team]. I told the 
guys that their next game is my 
first game." 
Notre Dame got a verbal com­
mitment from Thomas last April 
when Matt Doherty was at the 
helm. The off-season change in 
coaches couldn't deter Thomas 
from signing with Notre Dame, 
especially with both his parents 
on the Irish bandwagon. 
"Chris chose Notre Dame 
first," said Frank Thomas, 
Chris's dad. "He liked Coach 
Doherty as well. I think Chris 
will be able to make an immedi­
ate impact at Notre Dame." 
As a high school senior this season, Thomas made the 2 1/2 hour trip from Indianapolis to South Bend several times to watch his future teammates in action and get to know the squad. 
"l think as a freshman, you'll see he has great ideas," Brey .said. "He watches our games 
and he brings stuff up. Like 

IN THE ECK CENTER 
Martin, he thinks the game and he watches. We know he's

phone: 631-6316 • w-.ndbookstore.com 
skilled, but he also has the psy­che of a quarterback." 

J J t· J ~ ; ,J t t t I 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL NCAA TOURNAMENT 
McGraw, Foster meet again with Final Four at stake 
DENVER 
For lhc past fow days, the two coaches. compPtitors and com­rades have lived across the hall f'rom one another al a local hotel. Tonight, Vanderbilt's Jim Foster and Notrn 
lhune's 
Muffet 
McGraw, 
tho mentor 
and 
mcntcc, 
aim for the 
Final Four. 
So will tlw long­time 
friends 
ignort) 
each other 
before the 
'J p.m. tip-off! 
That's almost as dumb as ask• ing if the Bookstore will some­day lower prices on textbooks. 
"We're going t() spend time together." Foster said after Vanderbilt's win over Iowa State on Saturday night. "And I'm sum Matt (Mull'et's hus­band) wilt be in my room tnnight. lie prefers what's in my room as opposed to his some· times." 
Call it the King of the One­Liners versus the Queen of the Front-Liners. 
The Irish-Commodores tilt features the best two centers in the country, two of the best point guards, and is arguably the best match-up of all the regional finals. 
But the Foster-McGraw rela­tionship is the most interesting story line of the pre-game hype. 
They have known each other since the days when more peo­ple would attend a table tennis tournament than would watch a women's basketball game. Back then, in 1980, Foster was the head coach at St. Joseph's University in Pennsylvania and had recruited one of McGraw's players when she was the head coach at Archbishop Carroll I ligh School in nearby Philadelphia. One of Foster's assistants, Geno Auriemma (the current Connecticut head coach), left to take a position at the University of Virginia. 
So he offered McGraw her first college coaching job. She spent two seasons there before becoming the head coach at Lehigh University. 
"I thought I was ready to be a 

Tim Casey 
Senior Sta}] Writer 

head coach when I was an assistant," McGraw said. "I couldn't understand whv he [Foster] didn't use all ofmy ideas. As I became a head coach I realized that I kind of' missed a great opporlunity to learn a lit­tle bit more from him." 
Foster maintains close contact with his prized pupil. It is Foster who urged McGraw to apply for the Notre Dame job in 1987. It is Foster who McGraw says that "whenever I've had a problem he's the first person I've called." It is Foster who McGraw's entire staIT met with before this season at a bed and breakfast in Parish Patch. Tenn.. just outside Nashville. 
"We'll get up on the board and diagram," Foster said of the annual meeting. "We'll talk about any kind of conversation you can have. relative to the sport." 
Said McGraw: "It's a great time to exchange ideas." 
Although they have similar philosophies and priorities, McGraw and Foster differ in their public demeanor. While McGraw is more serious, Foster takes a cue from Auriemma. Foster remembers giving Auriemma a car when both were at St. Joseph's. 
"That doesn't mean any­thing," Foster said. "It was my $100 Volkswagon and I got a $150 Volkswagon." 
Before this weekend, I assumed the Connecticut head coach had no competition for delivering memorable quotes. Now, it seems Foster may rank a close second. 
Consider: 
Foster on his advice to McGraw when she was named the Irish coach: "I told her to recruit Ruth Riley." 
Foster on the difference between McGraw now and in the early 1980s: "Muffet's teams take care of the ball a lot better than she did." 
Foster on how his players can endure playing 40 minutes per game -"Why do young people go to war and old people sit home? They are of the age where you don't feel fatigue. If [ went skiing today, I would have to be brought in a wheelchair tomorrow to coach the basket­ball game." 
Foster on his first year as St. Joseph's coach in 1978-"I ran a group home for dependent, neglected boys. I lived there. I bartended twice a week. I 
SUMMER S9 ­11 1hour!! JOBS joay and night positions available!!) AND I Bonus opportunities!! INTERNSHIPS!! ! Work in the Chicago-area!!  
Clarke Mosquito Control is ll1e world's largest privately owned mosquito control services and products company, and has been the industry leader for more than fifty years The last five years have been a period of explosive growth and expansion as we lead the etfort to control the spread of West Nile Virus and other mosquito-borne illnesses. Clarke's mission is effective control of nuisance and disease-veclOring mosquitoes through utilization ol an environmentally friendly Integrated Pest Management program. Our goal is to consistently provide a strong learning environment for our employees and interns. We offer a wide variety of summer jobs and paid internships in biology, environmental sciences, life sciences, and related fields. We have field, lab, and office positions available. Must be 18 + years old, have a valid driver's license, and have an excellent driving record. For more information, stop and see us at the Internship Fair on January 25th! An Equal Opportunity Employer  
Clark Mosquito Control -Environmental Services Division 159 N. Garden Ave / PO Box 72197 (i. Roselle, IL 60172 (800) 323 5727 (outside IL)/ (800) 942·2555 (inside IL) humanresources@clarkemosquito.com www. clarkernosqu,to com  

was a full-time student at Temple University and I coached basketball at St. Joseph's. And oh yeah, I was 
married." 

Foster on his prediction for tonight's game -"If I was a clairvoyant, I'd probably be doing something else for a living. And making a lot more money." 
Foster has very few other close friends in the coaching ranks besides McGraw and Auriemma. McGraw says the same thing. The competitive­ness of the profession, it is rare to have meaningful rela· tionships with fellow coach· es. 
"This is an interesting busi­ness we're in," foster said. "And because it's an interest­ing business you value very closely the friendships that you have and you cherish those, as a matter of' fact." 
In the middle of the l 980s, McGraw's Lehigh team faced Foster's St. Joseph's squad. Since then, McGraw, Auriemma and Foster have chosen not to schedule games against each other during the regular season. 

"After the game you're just not very happy," McGraw said. "You're not happy if you lose and if you beat some­body you like, you're not very happy." 
Bet McGraw will be excited if the Irish win tonight. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
~'ND 

~  '((~~=""'  ~ S.B.C.M.E.  
~­ '9,i,,ifflff'l'<'~  ~  
~  ~  
~  :::=.~~  presents the 7th annual~  
~CAL.~~.  

Mini-Medical School Lecture Series 
Join us for 6 informative evenings as leading doctors, professionals and university/medical school professors discuss the hottest topics in medicine today. Free ofcharge and open to the general public. 
Session I Tuesday, March 20, 200 I: Baseball, J\,lary Shelley, and Neuromuscular Disease, Robert M. Pascuzzi, M.D. 
Session 2 Tuesday, March 2L1QQL. Domestic Violence, Ann M. Dclnncy, J.D. 
Session :i.. Tuesday. April 3. 2001: Healthy, Wealthy, and Wise: Nutrition and Exercise, Michael F. Busk, M.D., M.P.H. 
Session 4, Tuesdny. April IO 200 I· Fear,.Anxlety, and Addictions, Susan Ball, Ph.D. 
Session 5, Tuesday, April 17 2001 · Advance5 in Plastic Surgery, Barry L. Eppley, M.D. 
Session 6. Tuesday. April 24 2001: Militant Microbes • Antibiotic Resistant Bacteria, Richard B. Kohler, M.D. 

To register, call (219) 631-7177 For more information, call 631-5574 Time: 7:00-9:00 p.m. Indiana time Place: 102 DeBartolo Hall (west of stadh~m), University of Notre Dame 
i ~······-,t,:.,..;.4,t 
---------------_I 

------------~---------------~ 
~----------------------------­
---------------,---------------­
page 17

Monday, March 26, 200 l The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
2001 SCIENCE 
CAREER FAIR 
.. 


Sponsored by The Career Center and the College of Science 
Tuesday, March 27, 2001 
12:00 p.m. -5:00 p.m. 
Joyce Center Heritage Hall, Second Floor Concourse (Enter Gates 1 or 2) 
ONLY RESUMES WITH COVER LETTERS WILL BE FORWARDED TO EMPLOYERS 
AAR 

Accenture (formerly Andersen Consulting) 
Albany Molecular Research, Inc. 
Allstate Insurance Company 
Argonne National Laboratory 
Central Intelligence Agency 
Chicago Public Schools 

Clarke Environmental Mosquito 
Management, Inc. Cole-Parmer Instrument Company COMPENDIT, Inc. Eli Lilly and Company (Biological Sciences) Eli Lilly and Company (Chemistry) General Electric -Medical Systems Golden Apple Foundation Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. Hershey Foods Corporation IBM Corporation ­Indiana Department of Transportation 
Chiron Corporation Easter Seals Wisconsin Farmers Insurance Group International Foundation of Employee 
Benefit Plans Janssen -Pharmaceutica Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center Pfizer -Pharmaceuticals Group Purdue Pharma L.P. The Children's Museum of Indianapolis The Rockefeller University J.F. New & Associates Johnson & Johnson Lab Support, a division of On Assignment MediChem Research, Inc. NOAA (National Oceanic·& Atmospheric 
-Administration) 
Northwestern Memorial Hospital 
Peace Corps 
Pfizer --Global Research & Development Group 
Pharmacia Corporation 
Sigma-Aldrich, Inc. 
Spear, Leeds and Kellogg 
Stepan 

Summerbridge National 
Teach For America 
The Augustinian Volunteer Program -Order 
of St. Augustine 
U.S. 
Air Force 

U.S. 
Environmental Protection Agency 




WOMEN'S TRACK & FIELD 

Burket leads Belles at Dick Small Invite 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Edirnr 
Junior Erica Burket led the charge as the Belles of Saint Mary's ran. threw and jumped their way into a seventh place finish at the Dick Small Invitational. 
Burket alone scored 13 points for her team as she claimed a second-place finish, a fourth-place finish and an eighth-place finish. 
Burket took second in the triple jump, tying with Goshen College's Katie App at 9.740 meters. The junior also took lwnw a fourth place in high jump. clearing 1.4 74 meters and eighth place in the 100­meter hurdles with a time of 
18.39 seconds. 
During the team's first out­door meet or the year. the Saint Mary's track team took seventh place out of 12 teams with 35 points in a meet that may set the stage for this year's MIAA track runoff. Saint Mary's placed second out of four MIAA teams, ranking higher than Adrian College 
(34) and Olivet College (16}. Only Albion College finished higher with 47 points in the meet. 
"I was very excited," team co-captain Kara Bergeman said. "Especially that we fin­

= ished above the two MIAA teams. Albion, Adrian and Alma will be our big rivals this season." Bergeman credits the team's competitiveness to increased numbers from years past. "We've always been competi­tive and been able to place," she said. "We just haven't had the numbers we needed. Now we do." 
Despite the harsh Saturday 

Recycle The Observer. 
Attention: ND, SMC, HCC Students, Faculty, and Staff 
5• 

SIGNUPS 
Monday, March 19-Wednesday, March 28 Cost: $15 
WHEN and WHERE: 11:00--2:00 pm and 5:00--8:00 pm lsT FLOOR LAFUN BY ELEVATOR 
Check out our website and sponso.rs: 
www.nd.edu/~bkstri 
weather. teammates Jaclyn Thompson, Becky Shepkowski and Laura Graf, joined Burket in adding points for the Belles. Thompson took home a fourth place finish in the pole vault clearing 2.450 meters. Shepkowski made her way to the winner's circle twice, with a fourth place finish in the triple jump with a jump of 
9.540 meters and an eighth place finish in the long jump, landing 4.120 meters away from the starting line. 
Graf claimed the Belles' only 
first place victory with an 800­
m e te r run time of 2:25.16, 
beating out Albion's Amy 
Corrigan by less than a second. 
The Saint Mary's 400-meter relay team also earned some points for the Belles, finishing in eighth place with a time of 57.96. 
The meet, which took place at Defiance College. saw the home team take the vicotry. Defiance claimed 156 points, defeating second place team, Bethel, by 30. 
Angie Wittenmeyer led the Yellow Jackets with three first place finishes and a second place finish. Wittenmeyer took home the win in the triple jump. beating Burket by a nar­row margin with a jump of 
9.810. She also claimed victory in the 100-meter and 200­meter dashes. She finished off with a second place finish in the long jump. 
The Belles will take to the track and field again on Saturday at the Goshen College Invitational. The athletic department will be sponsoring a bus to the meet and anyone interested in attending may sign up in Angela Athletic facil­ity before Tuesday. The bus will depart at 10 a.m. and return at 1 p.m. 
WOMEN'S SOFTBALL 
Saint Mary's falls to Bethel twice 
By MOLLY McVOY 
Senior SraffWrirer 

Strong pitching was not 
enough to pull the Belles ahead 
of Division II Bethel College on 
Thursday as it dropped both 
games, 3-1 and 3-1. 

"Just a hit here or there would have made the differ­_ence," said head coach John 
Kovach. 

Junior Kristin Martin pitched 
the first game and gave up 
three runs, all of them 
unearned. She recorded eight 
strike-outs in the game and 
went 2-3 at the plate. 
"By and large, even 
giving up those three 
runs, you would hope 
offensively that you can 
make up for that," 
Kovach said. 
The Belles recorded 
three hits in the first 
game, including a dou­
ble in the top of the 
seventh inning by 
pinch-hitting Rachel 
Deer that drove in the 
Belles' only run. Deer 
was then thrown out at 
home while trying to 
score to end the game. 
Senior Anne Senger 
pitched the second 
game for the Belles giv­
ing up three runs in 
her seven innings of 
work. Bethel scored 
one run in the second 
and two runs in the 
third. The Belles scored 
their one run in the 
fifth inning, but had 
many more opportuni­
ties than in the first 
game. They had seven 
hits in the game and 
loaded the bases in the 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Personalized Graduation Announcements 
•Personalized •Professional •Convenient •Easy 

•Fast (2 week turnaround} 
NOW AVAILABLE ONLINE! 
Visit our website to order your personalized graduation announcements today or call 

1-800-353-5299 
VISA MC DISCOVER 
ORDER DURING THESE 2 DAYS! 
fourth with one out. That opportunity ended on a force out at home and a pop fiy. 
"They just picked and picked to get the runs," Kovach said. 
"We just need to hit more consistently and we need to have a stronger mental game," Senger said. 
Aside from the errors in the first game, Kovach has been pleased with the pitching and fielding of Saint Mary's so far. 
"By and large, I've been please with our fielding and pitching," Kovach said. "With two of three working. I think the third [hitting] will fall into place." 


Date: March 27-28 (Tues., Wed.) 
Time: 9:00 a.m. -4:30 p.m. 
Place: LaFortune Student Center, Sorin Room 
Saint Mary's College O'Laughlin Auditorium Sunday, April 1 • 7:30 p.m. 
Please Join us in support of the Food Bank of Northern Indiana by bringing a donation of canned food to the performance. There will be collection baskets at the entrances. 

JMO=~C.~rHE f!J.., 
~NOnlEDAIii!, IN 

For ticket information contact the 284 462 6 
Saint Mary's Box Office at • 
Inconsistent hitting had been a focus for the Belles since the beginning of the season. This week the players have been focusing on hitting «irills for their upcoming home-opener. The slower-throwing pitchers have been giving the Belles the hardest time according to Kovach. Adjusting to the speed of pitchers and understanding what kind of pitchers they will face should help Saint Mary's hitting. 
"All it will take is a little bloop here or there and ten it will be contagious," Kovach said. "That too will take pressure off our pitchers." 

Monday, March 26, 200J The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
FOOTBALL 
Irish prepare for spring practice with high expectations 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Associate Sports Ediror 
Bob Davie is certainly in a bet­ter mood now than one year ago. 
At the start of spring practice lasl season, rumors circulated concerning the future of the Irish football coach's job. Davie was fresh on a 5-7 season -Notre Dame's worst in nearly two der,ades. 
But this time around, the euphoria of earning their first-ever Bowl Championship Series bid still hasn't worn off and Davie wants to keep the good dynamics in place. 
"As we start right now, we're farther along, in my opinion, than we've been since I've been head coach at Notre Dame," Davie said. "I feel more comfort­able right now with the things that are in place than I have at any time." 
The spring football season is set to begin on Tuesday. The team will practice three days a week for five weeks, culminating in the annual Blue-Gold game on April 28. 
Davie knows what he wants to do during the spring -keep the things in place that led the Irish to a 9-3 record last season. 
His first priority is to maintain the strong team chemistry and find new leaders to step up and lead the Irish. 
"The chemistry has been an absolute positive. What we need to do is make sure that that con­ti.Imes to be a positive," he said. 

coachbobknight 
0\\ 
night only 

tuesdaymarch27
7:0 Opmstepancenter
$2students $4oublic 
ticketsonsalelafortuneboxoffice 

presentedexclusivelyby
sludentun1onboaro 
www.nd.edu/-sub 

~001 

A crucial part of maintaining that chemistry begins with the senior leadership, especially the captains. In the past, the cap­tains have been named during the summer. However. Davie said that he might announce the captains in time for the Blue­Gold game. 
"I think it's a little bit different than last year," he said. "I think maybe this year we're a little farther along." 
Davie knows that the Irish need more than strong team dynamics to duplicate the suc­cess of last year's team. 
"We have to follow that plan that allowed us to win nine games," he said. ''I'm tal~ing about special teams. We won all year because we didn't turn the ball over. We won because we could run the ball. We didn't give up big plays on defense." 
The spring football season will be an excellent chance for Terrance Howard to earn more playing time at tailback. With Julius Jones and Tony Fisher both out for spring practice, the door is wide open for Howard to earn the starti,ng spot in the fall. 
"Terrance Howard is someone who has a chance to be our starting tailback," Davie said. "He's going to get a lot of work." 
Utah 
continued from page 24 
mates focused on getting her the ball in the post. The senior cen­ter responded, scoring 18 of Notre Dame's 37 second half points as the Irish outscored Utah 37-29 in the final 20 min­utes. 
"Personally, I just needed to post up more in the second half," Riley said. 
Once again, the Irish domi­nated thanks to a versatile attack. Point guard Niele Ivey made three 3-pointers and scored 15 points to go to along with six assists. 
"We have great balance on our team," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "When you key on one person, you lose some­body else. We just played well together. Nobody forced any­thing." 

At ts and Lattars Majors and Program Fair 

Wednesday, March 28 5:30 -7:00 p.m. Library Concourse 

Advisors from every Major, Minor and Area Studies Program will be available to provide information and answer auestions for all students. 
One of the biggest questions surrounding the Irish is the quarterback situation. Although Davie said that Matt LoVecchio, who went 7 -1 as a freshman last season, would enter the spring as the starting quarterback, he also said that the possibility was open for either Carlyle Holliday or Jared Clark to earn the start­ing position. 
'They're going to have to be a lot better to overtake the experi­ence factor that he has," Davie said. "But it's a long season, and all three of them have long careers here, so that can change. It all depends on performance." 
Davie also announced that the coaching staff was considering sophomore-to-be Vontez Duff as a kick returner. Duff, the fastest member of the Irish squad, will also play cornerback. 
It's clear the Davie is excited heading into spring practice sea­son. He has a team with consid­erable big-game experience and a talented nucleus of players. 
"I think it will be our most tal­ented team," he said. 
But Davie knows what the bot­tom line is. And he's not going to shy away from it. 
"The expectations don't change," he said. "We're expect­ed to win." 
Alicia Ratay also made three 3-pointers, finishing with 11 points. 
Forward Ericka Haney added 10 points to go along with eight rebounds in 19 minutes. 
Utah, the nation's best defen­sive team coming in to the game, allowed the Irish to shoot 
47. 3 percent from the field for the game. Notre Dame was only the fourth team this year to score more than 60 points on Elaine Elliott's team. 
Utah's defensive game strug­gled with team leader Amy Ewert off the court at various points in the second half. Ewert played the last 16:44 with four fouls. 
"She's the heart of our team in so many ways," Elliott said. "We didn't like not having her available. Her presence is sort of the glue that we all have learned to rely on and look for for a lot of things." 
The Irish led only 24-23 com­ing out of the final media time­out in the first half. Three­pointers by Ratay and Ivey extended the margin to 30-23 with 1:35 remaining. 
After Utah's Erin Gibbons bounced a 10-footer off the top of the rim to beat the shot clock, Riley saw through three swarming Utah defenders to find an open Siemon under the basket. Siemon layed the ball in to give the Irish a 32-25 half­time lead. 
Coming in to the game, pun­di~ expressed concern about Notre Dame's ability to adjust to Denver's thin air. The Irish, who play a regular rotation of only six or seven players, appeared especially susceptible. 
"I don't think it was really a major factor today," Riley said. "It's more of a mental state of mind than it is a very physical thing." 
In the end, it was the team from Salt Lake City that was huffing and puffing, despite playing eight players more than 12 minutes. 
"The game needed to be a lit­tle bit shorter for us," Elliott said. "They wore us down." 
Notre Dame takes on Vanderbilt Monday at 9 p.m. 


KENOSHA, Wisc. 
Meagan Call was not supposed to be the highest finishing Notre Dame woman at the NCAA Fencing Championships. In fact, the 2001 second team All-American wasn't even sup­posed to be at the Championships. 
When head coach Yves Auriol recruit­ed Kerry Walton for the 2001 season, many expected Walton, one of the top junior cpeeists in the country, to replace Call as one of Notrn Dame's two epee qualifiers. Call posted a respectable 11-12 record at the 2000 Championships and earned third team honors but most 11xpectPd Walton and Anna Carnick. who finished ninth at the 2000 Ch,unpionsllips and had considerably more experience than Call to qualify for this year's championship. 
Call was too short and too inexperi­onced lo be hnlp the Irish fight for a national title in 2001. 

But then Walton's grades for the first semester came back and she was ineligi­ble. The Irish turned to the 5-foot-2 again in 2001. And Call not only met the 

challenges but exceeded them. 
The woman who was too short and too inexperienced led the Irish in epee wins during the regular season. 
"I knew it had to be done and Anna knew it had to be done," Call said. "So we just went out there and fought like hell." 
And then she got sick. Just days before she was supposed to fenced in the open­ing round of women's epee, Call wasn't even sure if she was going to fence. 
But the woman who wasn't even expected to qualify for nationals heat her illness and battled her wav to a fifth place finish -by far the s"trongest show­ing of any Irish woman. 

"Two days ago we didn't even know if she would fence or not," head coach Yves Auriol said. "The girl is amazing. She is so smart and such a tough com­petitor." 
What Call lacks in size and reach. she makes up for in determination and confi­dence. Others may have doubted her ability but Call never did. She expected to not only fence well but challenge for the individual foil title. Only fencers who fin­ish in the top four qualify for the fence offfor the national title so Call is a little disappointed at her fifth place showing -especially since she was in second after six rounds but lost three straight bouts in the final round. 
weeks, I am sure I will feel better about it," Call said. "I knew I needed to win the bouts [in round seven] so I started fenc­ing for myself and not my team and Ijust lost it." 
The little ball ofheart and determina­tion just couldn't find the same drive for herself that she had for her team. Without the challenge of aiding a greater cause, Call couldn't find the same energy and focus. 
"I am really proud of her and really, really happy for her," Carnick said. "She is a little upset now but tonight or tomor­row, whenever it hits her, she is going to be really pleased with herself. That is just an example ofsomeone having lots more conlidencc in herself this year." 
Although she stumbled at bit at the very end, throughout the season. when­ever her team needed her, Meagan answered the Call and fenced like a champion. 
"She's definitely one athlete that improved way more than anyone I have ever seen before," men's foil captain Ozren Debic said. "She is beating people who have World Cup experience and that's great. She probably felt her responsibility was to get better and give it her best shot and she is doing just that." 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily 
Monday, March 26, l.UU 1

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS 
FENCING 

Viviani avenges loss, def eats Roytblat to place third 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Sports Writer 
KENOSHA, Wisc. 
Jan Viviani will never forget his semifinal bout against St. John's Alex Hoytblat at the 2000 NCAA Fencing Championships. 
The tlrnn-lrish freshman and Urn SL John's junior battled to an 8-8 Lie in regulation before Roytblat won on a controversial touch in overtime. Viviani insists Roytblat touched the noor instead of Viviani and that the toucll shouldn't have count­nc! Nevntlwless, Hoytblat was awardml the touch and elimi­nau~d Viviani. 
"Ev11ry time I frnce him, I think of that bout." Viviani said. 
When Viviani faced Hoytblat again this weekend in the third place bout, he made sure Hoytblat wouldn't win on another controversial touch. 
The Irish sophomore thor­

oughly dominated the senior 15-9 to finish third for the sec­ond consecutive year and earn first team All-American honors. 
"In the 15 touch bout, for the beginning. it wasn't close," Viviani said. "So it was easy to win. There was no stress there." 
Viviani also defeated Roytblat 5-4 in the round robin portion of the competition. 
Viviani's 18 wins in the round robin placed him fourth overall and qualified him for the fence off for the individual title. He lost to Penn State's Adam Wiercioch in the semifinals 15­8 before defeating Roytblat in the third place bout. 
Viviani's top four finish earned him first team All­American honors for the sec­ond straight year. Viviani lrncamc the first Notre Dame back-to-back first team men's All-American since 1991 when four fencers earned back-to­back honors. 
•·1 was really happy to be able 
to do it two years in a row,'' Viviani said. "I think that was a big accomplishment -espe­cially in epee." 
With his accomplishments, however, come even higher expectations. Head coach Yves Auriol expects Viviani to place 
even  higher  at  fuiurc  
Championships.  
"I  expect Jan to win  the  

NCAAs in the next two years," Auriol said. "He has been so good in Europe and in the World Cup Tournaments. He has the tools and I think he can win a title for us." 
This summer Viviani will travel to Poland for the Junior World Championships to repre­sent the United States. For years he has traveled around the world wearing the stars and stripes but he says the blue and gold adds much more pres­sure to his bouts. 
"[The NCAAs] are a lot more pressure." Viviani said. "This is the only tournament I get rnally nervous for." 

Fencing 
continued from page 24 
on the spot. On the first day, I was 
really nervous and really shaky." 
Nerves also got to sophomore foilist Liza Boutsikaris. The 2000 All­American struggled over both days of' competition and finished 16th with only eight wins. 
"That wasn't Liza fencing out 
there," Auriol said. "She got nervous 
and she couldn't take the pressure." 
Boutsikaris said knowing how much 
every but matters at the NCMs madP. 
this year's competition even tougher. 
"l was just talking myself into thinking I wasn't going to win and then not trying my best," the foil cap­tain said. 
Although sabrewoman Cari McCullough did not earn All­American honors for the second year in a row, the senior did improve on her record from last year. She won 10 bouts this year compared to last year when she won nine. McCullough was still disappointed in her perfor­mance. 
"I think ( got frustrated with myself and some of the calls and I let it effect my fencing," she said. "l shouldn't have let that happen." 

The two women's epeeists. howev­er, earned All-American honors for second consecutive year. Carnick repeated as a third team All­American while Meagan Call took home second team All-American hon­ors. 
Although only two women were named All-Americans, all six men won All-American honors for the first time in Notre Dame history. 
Sophomore Jan Viviani led the men with a third place finish in epee for the second straight year. Viviani became the 14th Irish male fencer io be named a first team All-American 
twice. 
Ozren Debic, Brian Casas and Andre Crompton took home second team honors in foil, epee and sabre. respectively. Sabreman Andrzcj Rednarski and foilist Forest Walton were each named third team All­Americans. lt was the third time Bednarski has won All-American honors while Walton won for the first time after just missing out in 2000. 
"It feels great. It's what I wanted to do for quite some time," Walton said. "My family is proud. My team is proud. I think I was like the only one who missed it last year so it feels 
epeeist from Oregon to carry the load "I am disappointed but in a couple of those ofThe Observer. great this year." 
Monday, March 26, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
FENCING 
Casas, Walton rally to earn All-American honors 

The Department of English Presents an Informal Talk for Undergraduates by VALERIE SAYERS Professor of English University of Notre Dame FICTION INTERPRETS FICTION: "My FIRST GoosE" AND "My FIRST EXECUTION Tuesday, March 27th, 7:30 pm Hospitality Room, Reckers Refreshments Will Be Served  II  



" SK & 10K RUNS 
PLUS 
2MILEWALK SATURDAY, APRIL 7, 11:00 AM STEPAN CENTER 


T-~Hlr<Ts· ·r < • .\ 1.1, Rr..r;1sn( _," rs 
IU,(;ISTf.R Ii\ \l . V\'\lCF \ I IU.(SPORTS 'f;ldl0 I:\ \IJ\' \i\( 'E 'bf.Ott I)\Y 01• H \CF . ST\11>1:"i'. I' \ "\O Sl \ t-t' f>IVISH ):\S 
l 
ALL PROCEEDS TO BENEFIT CHRISTMAS IN APRIL 
~~.1VSOREDBl:g,~.4,~.f.~l . 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Sports Writer 
KENOSHA, Wisc.. 

Thursdav was unkind to Brian Casas and Forest Walton. Both Casas and Walton finished the first day of compe­tition at the 2001 NCAA Fencing Championships in 17th place with just six wins each. 
But on Friday. Casas and Walton both lUrned their fortunes around and rallied for All-American finishes. Casas won eight out of nine bouts on Friday while Walton won seven. 
''I'd say the first day I was still a little nr,rvous,'' Walton said. The second day you get a feel for the competition and get all your jitters out. I'd say that's why I had a better second day." 
Walton's second day rally boosted him into ninth place and earned him his first All-American honors. His desire to make the All-American team helped him overcome his first day struggles. 
"I regretted not getting All-American status last year," Walton said. "I kind of channeled that and used it to my advantage. It gave me the drive and pushed me to fence my best ihis year." 
Casas' turnarotind was even more dramatic than Walton's. After the first three rounds of competition Casas won only three out of 11 bouts to place him 21st out of 24 fencers. Casas seemed destined for another poor showing at the NCAAs. In 2000, Casas finished 18th after winning only nine bouts. 
But then the junior, who was named a second team All-American as a fresh­man in 1999. returned to his top form. He won all three bouts in round four, including one against eventual champi­on Soren Thompson of Prince. 
He carried this momentum into the Friday where he lost only one bout and rallied for a seventh place finish -one spot better than 1999. 
"I guess you get tired of screwing up the first day." Casas said. "You get mad. You jusL felt that you know you can do better. Something happens to you." 
While Walton's Friday rally was aided by an easier schedule, Casas sec­ond day heroics were nearly impossi­ble to predict. 
Before the fourth round, two of Casas' first three victories came against some of the top fencers in the pool. He opened the tournament with a win against teammate Jan Viviani who eventually finished third overall and also defeated Penn State's Adam Wiercioch, who finished second. He dropped most of his bouts to the lesser fencers in his pool. 
On the second day, he not only defeated top fencers like Seth Kelsey of Air Force but he also picked up the easier wins against lesser opponents. 
Irish coach Yves Auriol believes Casas' style makes it easier to defeat highly skilled fencers rather than fencers who rely more on talent than technique. 
"It's amazing," Auriol said. "Throughout the season you could sense that he likes the style of guys who have a little more clean. classical style. Brian is not good fencing a fight­er -someone who is going to rush into him. He is better against someone who is cleaner because his technique is better." 
All the Irish agreed that the biggest change from the first day to the second day is mental. 
Although an easier second day scheduie can sometimes help an fencer turn his tournament around, a more relax attitude is the key to improve­ment. 
"On the second day of the tourna­ment, you relax a little bit," Auriol said. "You realize what you have to do. I think it is a psychological thing. Even women's foil [which won only 12 total bouts]. They didn't do great but they fenced better the second day." 

EARN FULL-YEAR CREDIT IN BIOLOGY, CHEMISTRY,
a:rn_ 

PHYSICS AND FOREIGN LANGUAGES 


ACCELERATE PROGRESS TOWARDS YOUR DEGREE 
FULFILL A DISTRIBUTION OR GENERAL EDUCATION REQUIREMENT 
LIVE ON NORTHWESTERN'S LAKESIDE CAMPUS, JUST NORTH OF CHICAGO! 
Call 800-FINDS-NU for a catalog. 
Midnight Madneii 2.001 
Intramural season closes on a night filled with Madness 
By KATIE McVOY Assncbr<· Sporn F<liwr 
The Madness swept through Angola Athletic facility and left 
spectators with  a  sense of  
excitement and  a  sense  of  
community.  

Midnight Madness, the Saint Mary's athletic department's spring extravaganza. attracted students, friends and visitors as the event wrapped up the intramural season. But the event wasn't just about athlet­ics. 
"The focus of the night wasn't about athletics, it was about Saint Mary's," athletic director Lynn Kachmarik said. "It's all about Saint Mary's to me. It is about self-esteem and self-awareness and confi­dence." 
Last year's attendance of 500 was nearly doubled this year, with attendance coming in between 800 and 1,000, according to Kachmarik. 
"On the whole, I was totally pleased," she said. "But there were a lot of people there who could have been there but weren't." 
With that in mind, 

Kachmarik is already looking ahead to next year. 
"Last year there were 500, this year there were more," she said. "What is the future going to hold?" 
Kachmarik may be looking toward the future, but this year's intramural champions are still reveling in the glory of the present. 
Volleyball 
The Prom Queens were crowned on the volleyball court as they defeated the Senior Spikers 2-1. The Regina Hall royalty entered ihe tournament ranked No. 1 and took the LeMans Hall team in a very close game. 
The first match belonged to the Queens. 15-4. But the Senior Spikers, who were ranked fifth coming into the tournament took control in the second match claiming a 15­11 victory. 
A third game, played only to 11 points, cemented the Queens reign, as the Spikers fell 11-7. 
Soccer 
They say ·history doesn't 
repeat itself. Well, it did this year for the Ghetto Fabulous as they defeated the Chaos 3­1. 
These two teams met in the championship game last year as well. The Ghetto Fabulous were victorious last March as well. 
Friday's game left the Ghetto Fabulous and the Chaos in a 0-0 tie when regulation time ended. The two teams had to face-off for a shoot-out to see who would claim victory. Each team had five chances to kick. The Ghetto Pabulous landed three, while the Chaos only landed one. 
With both teams graduating most of its members, this match may go down in the his­tory books. 
Basketball 

The No. 1 ranked Team o· Teachers was upset by the No. 2 ranked Badazzes in Friday night's basketball final. 
The Badazzes fell to the Teachers the last time these two teams met, so they were looking for revenge. A very close 7-6 game offered the sweet taste of victory with a touch of spiced revenge . 

25% OFF All Fleece Sweatshirts 25% OFF .All Long Sleeve T-shirts 25o/o OFF .All Caps
' , I 
25o/o OFF A.11 ~otre Dame Imprinted Gifts (Excluding Waterford, Belleek, Lladro) 
503/o Q~I:.,,,All ,~acJ~14P~~J<s7: ~-r.,
1 •

l 'I!. 
50% OFF .All Clearance 
Sale ends Afarch 31,, 2001 

Spectators visit the Angela Athletic Facility for Midnight Madness at Saint Mary's. 

Monday, March 26, 2001 
The Observer . TODAY page 23 

· EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 32 Fly traps 66 Continuously 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Chooses, with 35 Bluto's rival 67 Jungle vine 
THIS DAY: Lawrence Welk, Sam You will have the discipline to "for" Donaldson, Thora Birch, Douglas get odd jobs completed. Don't
39 Blubber 68 Border 
Adams, Rupert Murdoch, Bobby let children be too demanding.
5 Soup scooper 
40 Egg cells 69 Clutter McFerrin, Lisa Loeb You may find it difficult if you10 Follow orders 41 Foot, informally 70 Put an _ (halt) Happy Birthday: You can't do make promises that are totally 14 Pronoun in a everything for everyone this year. unreasonable. 000
42 Bnng into play 71 Not a natural
wedding pledge Back off and set your priorities LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22):43 Women's blonde straight. Choose carefully and Your tendency to overindulge
15 Kayak paddler 
44 Hereditary spare yourself getting run-down, will result in weight gain or 16 Boorish aggravated and worn out. If you minor illness. You will have to be 
45 Falling-out DOWN
17 Bees? focus on your own dreams for a careful not to become overly46 Small handbill 1 "On the change, you will find the year emotional with your mate. 00
19 Rake_ (get 
hand ..:-ahead productive, positive and SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):
48 Besides that rich) 

prosperous. Your numbers: 20, Your secretive nature will cause 
20 .:__ nous 50 They're rough 2 Call 
23, 31, 35, 46, 49 problems if you won't let your 
on golf greens 3 The last 
(between us) ARIES (March 21-April 19): mate in on your thoughts. Be 21 Podium feature 54 "Oh, what am I amendment in Difficulties with your partner careful not to neglect yourself. to do?" the Bill of Rights will surface if you haven't paid Rest and good dietary habits are
22 Giant Mel and 
enough attention. Financial limi­amust.000
58 Dressed 4 Woman with aothers 
tations may cause frustrations SAGIITARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21):
future?
23 Listen to again, 60 Particles in in achieving goals. 00 Romantic relationships will suf­
as arguments particle 5 See 58-Down TAURUS (April 20-May 20): fer if you try to face important 25 _ Beach, S.C. accelerators 6 Grad Be careful not to divulge secret emotional issues that are driving 27 It's below the 62 A 1 0·, 11 · or 7 Casual Friday information. You will have to you crazy. Your partner will take 
knee 12-year old wear trust your own instincts and keep offense, and you'll spend the your thoughts to yourself. Expect day alone. 000 
29 Any "Seinfeld" 63 Take to the trail 
8 Like a four-leaf friends to exaggerate and overre­CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): episode now 64 Kind of contract clover act to situations. 000 Don't be too eager to talk about GEMINI (May 21-June 20): your feelings today. You need to
9 Cousin of 
You will have ample energy for find out more about the way
chloroform
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE any competitive activities that your partner feels before you put 10 Baltimore bird interest you. Your creative talent your own heart on the line. 00 
Puzzle by Greoory E. Paul

L O N G S H O T R E G A R D 11 Yellow flower and ability to work with young­AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): I B E L I E V E E V E N E R 33 "Who knows 51 Wedding 57 PC key sters will come in handy. 00000 Travel will open up new avenues p E L A G E 12 Blue-pencil what lurks walkway CANCER (June 21-July 22): that will enhance your knowl­
B L U E Y E D 58 With 5-Down,
13 Hankerings You can expect opposition from edge and bring you important
52 Bring to the where reactions 
those you Jive with. Don't argue; friendships. You should be think­
18 "You bet" 
34 1989 Ricki Lake auto repair take place 

just make your own plans with ing about signing up for a course 24 Wisconsin TV movie 53 Goller Sam 59 Walk the earth friends. Don't make changes to or seminar. 00000 college or its 36 School org. your living quarters unless every­PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20):
55 Prepared 61 In the mail 
town one is in favor of your plans. 00 Extravagance and overindul­37Villad'_ 56 Join forces 65 Chinese ideal LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You gence will be tempting. Avoid
26 Squirrel's home 
38 Give way will get along much better with getting involved in joint ventures. 
28 Shootout time, 
your friends than you will with Be careful not to make unreason­
maybe 41 Michelin product Answers to any three clues in this puzzle your family. Try to get your house­able demands on others. Don't 30 _Major 45 Iodine source are available by touch-tone phone: hold duties out of the way before follow the crowd; yeu need to 47 Tribal VI.P.'s 1-900-420-5656 (95e per minute). you take off for the day. 0000 make up your own mind. 000 
31 No, in Moscow 32 "Little Red 49 Actor Green of Annual subscriptions are available for the 
Birthday Baby: With your flare and charisma, you can work a Riding-Hood" "Buffy the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 crowd. You know exactly what to do to get what you want. You are a villain Vampire Slayer" years: 1 ·888-7-ACROSS. born leader and a strong competitor. You have a creative mind and a 
free spirit. (Need advice? Oi.eck out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
TOM KEELEY 
BILL AMEND 
l'M SORRY 

To HEAR IS IT ol( THA.T. IF I &o 
TYLER

THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 
-r ~e. t~e fl'lo:,t I ntcllec:\ 

.... 
de.void F,1...,of"-t ':leo.r! ! 
l 

'f"o.n-t~(. IW)\lje. ! 

NOORE DAME BASEB 
Tue. March 27 vs. Western Michigan 5 pm First 50 Students Receive Free HotCocoa 
WED. MARCH 28 VS. TOLEDO 5PM 
Tuesday, March 27 vs. Western Michigan 4:00 pm (2) 
Wednesday, March 28 vs. Valparaiso 4:00 pm (2) 




Future star 
Notre Dame basketball recruit Chris Thomas led Indianapolis Pike High School to the Class 4A state championship.

PORTS 
page 15 

THE page 24 OBSERVER Monday, March 26, 200 I 
FENCING 

Irish stumble to third at National Championships 
won the national title and "I think the men did up to ond but sabre took fifth and that team fencing creates. 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 

Penn State slipped to second their potential," foil captain foil finished tied for eighth. "I am not used to having a SporrsWriter 
after winning the last six Ozren Debic said...We were "I am a little disappointed team," the sabrewoman said. 
titles. 12 behind St. John's which with women's sabre and foil," "Just doing individual national 
KENOSHA, Wisc. "As a team, I know we could was expected but the first day head coach Yves Auriol said. competitions, it was just me 
For the seventh straight have done better." sophomore of the women's even was "They did not perform as well and my coach but here there year. the Notre Dame fencers Anna Carnick said. "The confi­tough for the girls. They as I hoped." are 20 or 40 people cheering left the NCAA Championships dence and lack thereof play a lacked confidence and aggr~s­The women's foil and sabre for you and against you." disappointed at what might key role in how we did. I was sion. I guess there was pres­squads were the only squads Jordan said she wasn't have been and hoping to disappointed but if you can be sure being here for the first with freshmen fencing for the ready to fence every bout hard redeem themselves next year. in the top three, that's pretty .time or knowing that it was up Irish. Destanie Milo and from the very beginning. The 2001 Championships good." to them and that made it Maggie Jordan both struggled "I learned it was really added a bit of a twist the The Irish stood in second tough for them." in their first NCAA tough from the get-go," the story, however. Rather than place after the men's competi­The men's sabre_ and epee Championships. Each won foilist said. "You don't have taking home a second place tion on the first two days but squads finished second overall only eight out of 23 bouts and any practice bouts to warm trophy for the sixth consecu­slipped to third behind Penn while the men's foil squad tied each finished 17th. you up. You have to be ready tive year. the Irish walked State after a weak showing by for third. On the women's side Milo said she wasn't pre­away with bronze as St. John's the women's team. the epee squad finished sec-pared for the extra pressure see FENCING/page 20 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL NCAA TOURNAMENT 
Notre Dame defeats Utah, faces Vandy in Elite· 8 
• Irish roll to 69-54 victory over Utes to advance to the Elite 8 

--By NOAH AMSTADTER Sports Edi10r 
DENVER 
Among a sea of red, this Notre Dame team finished strong at the end. 
Utah fans packed the Pepsi Center stands Saturday night in Denver, many wearing bright red to create an atmosphere similar to Notre Dame stadium this fall when the Irish hosted Nebraska. 
But this time, the "home" team came out on top, as Notre Dame (31­
2) lopped Utah (28-4) 69-54 Friday to advance to the NCAA regional championships. The Irish take on Vanderbilt tonight, the winner trav­eling to St. Louis for the Final Four. 
Huth Riley, the 2000-01 Naismith Award winner. scored 24 points, grabbed 14 rebounds and passed out a career-high six assists for the Irish. 
The Utes defended Riley well in the opening half, limiting her to only six points on !'our field goal attempts. Dt:spitc Utah's ability to stop Riley from scoring in the post, the Utes were unable to prevent her from passing off to open teammates as Riley recorded four of her assists in the opening half. 
"I figured they would probably double team me like a lot of teams have," Hiley said. "I was fortunate to have teammates that were able to knock down those shots, whether they be three-pointers or lay-ups to Kelley [Siemon)." 
In the second half', Riley's team-
sec UTAH/pagel9 

.... 
SPORTS 
ATA 
GLANCE 


. Top seeded Irish one win away from trip to Final Four 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Sports Editor 
DENVEB 
From day one this season. head coach Muffet McGraw and the Irish women's basketball team have stressed one final destination -the Final Four. 
Completing that mission comes down to tonight. when Notre Dame (31-2) takes on the Vanderbilt Commodores (24-9) in the Midwest Regional Championship game. 
Both teams boast exciting players in the middle and at the point. 
The pivotal match-up tonight will be in the post. Notre Dame's Ruth Riley averages 17.8 points per game on 63.7 percent shooting. The Commodores' 6-6 Chantelle Anderson hit for 21.1 points per game on a national-best 73 percent shooting during the regular season. 
Both star centers are also prone to struggles with foul trouble -Hiley has fouled out of 17 games so far during her Notre Dame career. Anderson has collected five fouls in seven games so far this season. 
"The team that's going to win tomorrow is the team that can keep its center out of foul trouble," McGraw said. 
Vanderbilt coach Jim Foster is excited about the match-up between 
• the Associated Press first-and sec­ond-team All-American centers: Riley and Anderson. respectively. 
"Your great players are measured against their performances against 
see VANDY/pagel4 
vs. Illinois Thursday, 4 p.m. 
vs. Iowa Friday, 4 p.m. 



