. ··-­
Live releases V
SHOWERS 
Tuesday 
Scene reviews the fifth album, V, of Live, an alternative rock band from
HIGH 55° 


SEPTEMBER 25,
Pennsylvania. 
LOW 43° 
Scene . page 13 
2001 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Da,ne and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 21 

BOG discusses Strategic Plan 

By SHANNON NELLIGAN 
News Writer 
Mary-Jo Regan-Kubinski, co­chair of the Strategic Plan, pre­sented the possibility of increased student involvement and awareness in the Strategic Plan at Monday's Board of Governance meeting. 
The plan was developed to tackle major areas on campus which need improvement. The plan was established last year and will continue through the 2005 academic year. 
"Eleven groups, composed of faculty and staff, discussed the current needs of the college and came up with four major arel!s of improvement -now we need student input," said Regan-Kubinski. 
These areas of improvement have been translated into four major goals for the college to complete within the next five years. The goals are to educate women to make a difference in a complex world; to cultivate leadership and enhance com­munication; to recruit, retain and graduate a vital and diverse student body that ensures the college's leader­ship in women's education; and to develop and focus resources to advance the mission of Saint Mary's College. 
Akmaral Omarova, Student Trustee, who also attended these meetings, explained that this is a crucial time for student involvement because it is a pro-, ject that will continue over the next several years. 
Omarova also reiterated that, "Even though students don't see the long range of this plan -it will directly effect them." 
The Board discussed ideas on how to promote and encourage student involvement. These ideas included a student guide to the strategic plan and the possibility of creating a direct link to the document in the form of an icon on network computers. 
Student body president Michelle Nagle also encouraged leaders of the class boards to dedicate part of their meetings to this topic. This will create a larger awareness of the plan because the students' peers will be explaining it and there­fore it will not be a foreign idea developed by the administra­
see BOG/page 4 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
ND aluD1na can1paigns for congressional seat 
ByJASON McFARLEY News Editor 
lt only took a few days on Notre Dame's campus in 1972 for Kathleen Cekanski Farrand to realize she was in the right place. 
In the opening days of the semester that year ­the first t h a t University officials 

a d m it t e d Cekanski Farrand women as undergraduates -a large ban­ner at the all-campus picnic greeted Cekanski Farrand, a first-year law student in the third class of women to gradu­ate from Notre Dame Law School, and her female peers. It read simply: "We're glad you're here." "I remember the impact of seeing that banner," the 1973 law school graduate said. "It was like the campus literally opening its doors and extending its hand to us." Some three decades later, Cekanski Farrand, a former rectress at the University and today a prominent local attor­ney, hopes the U.S. Congress will be just as accommodating. Cekanski Farrand, a Democrat from Mishawaka, announced her candidacy Aug. 18 for Indiana's 2nd District 
congressional seat which U.S. Rep. Tim Hoerner will vacate in 2003.. 
The newly expanded district encompasses 12 counties, including St. Joseph, where South Bend and Mishawaka are located. 
Cekanski Farrand became the fourth Democrat to declare her candidacy for the 2002 election. 
Her campaign will be a grass­roots effort that focuses on the district's constituents, she said. 
"We do not see this campaign as a sprint which focuses on. which candidate can raise the most amount of money the fastest," she said in her Aug. 18 announcement, "But rather, we see this congressional campaign as a marathon of meeting peo­ple and taking time to discuss their concerns." 
"It's important to meet as many people as we can and lis­ten to what they're saying," Cekanski Farrand said in an interview with The Observer this month. 
Her family-centered cam­paign also will center on infus­ing traditional vaJues into gov­ernment, she said. 
"People my age and older remember a party of the peo­ple," the 53-year-old said. 'Tm campaigning on the core values of vision, courage and commit­ment. When I try to tie up what my campaign's all about, it's about rekindling that spirit, because I just don't see it as much as it could be." 
see CONGRESS/page 6 



Bush freezes ~ts of suspected terrorists 
The move was an effort to go after transactions of foreign that country doesn't comply with agencies, he said. 
Associated Press choke off financial support for banks that refuse to cooperate in U.S. requests, White House Previous efforts to cut bin bin Laden, whom the United the campaign against terrorism. spokesman Ari Fleischer said: Laden off from funds have been WASHINGTON States considers the prime sus­"It puts the financial world on "The United States is prepared unsuccessful, including steps byPresident Bush ordered a pect in the Sept. 11 terrorist notice," Bush said in a Rose to take action against nations the United States and the United freeze Monday on the assets of attacks against the World Trade Garden that don't Nations in 1998 to freeze his 27 people and organizations Center and the Pentagon. appearance. help in this assets after the U.S. Embassy with suspected links to terror­The list names 12 individuals. "If you do "Ifyou do business with cause." bombings in Africa. Bin Laden, ism, includ­including bin Laden and an business with Bush said an exile from Saudi Arabia, has
terrorists, ifyou support or

ing Islamic Egyptian militant suspected to be terrorists, if the adminis­a personal fortune estimated at 
sponsor them, you will not

militant his top deputy; 11 organizations, you support tration would $300 million. Osama bin including bin Laden's al-Qaida or sponsor do business with the United respond on a Treasury Secretary Paul Laden, and network; three charities and one them, you will "case-by-case O'Neill said the order should
States ofAmerica."

urged other business. not do busi­basis"in send a message to anyone who nations to Missing from the list are ness with the determining does business with terrorists: do likewise. Hamas, Islamic Jihad and United States George W. Bush compliance. "Cooperate in this fight or we Foreign Hezbollah, militant groups that of America." president He . also will freeze your U.S. assets." banks that are on the State Department's The presi­said a foreign Administration officials don't coop­roster of terrorists but that some dent said he terrorist acknowledged that the immedi­erate could Arab nations see as legitimate recognized that some European asset tracking center at the ate impact of Bush's executive have their own transactions fighters against Israel. countries would probably need Treasury Department would try order is hard to gauge. blocked in the United States. Bush acknowledged that ter­to rewrite their own laws to to "follow the money as a trail to "It may be an imperfect solu­
"Money is the lifeblood of ter­rorists' assets in the United meet America's conditions. the terrorists." The center will tion ... but it is necessary to start rorist operations," Bush said. States were small. But his order Switzerland, for one, is well bring together representatives of with the documented, recorded "Today, we're asking the world also gives the Treasury known for banking secrecy. the intelligence, law enforce­
see FREEZE/page 4 

to stop payment." Department wider authority to Asked about possible action if ment and financial regulatory 


,--------------------------------------------------------~ 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Tuesday, September 25, 2001 
INSIDE COLUMN QUOTES OF THE WEEK 
Students 
demonsrate fair weather pride 

American pride, who knows what it is? Until two weeks ago you never saw people randomly waving an American flag or saying that they were proud to be an American. This makes me question whether or not people really are proud and know what it means to be Americans on a day to day basis or if it is something we all take for granite. 
Driving down Grape road for instance I saw a Jeep which had a giant American flag waving from the spare tire in back. It is safe to say this is not an event you would have seen three weeks ago. Again the flags hanging from various stadi­ums in the United States ­not something we have seen before, and certainly flags being handed out at a Notre Dame football game is defi­natly something not seen before. 
While all this American pride does rally the nation in times of tragedy it is safe to assume that Americans, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students included, do not exhibit American Pride 365 days a year -face it we don't even do it with respect now. After the flags were used at Saturday's game how many ofus threw them on the ground and discarded them, simply because they were a nuisance to hold? What ever hap­pened to not letting the American flag touch the ground? 
I was appalled Saturday to see so many flags, even though they were paper, on the ground only to be stepped on and torn apart. I was also com­pletely distraught to see people around me rip­ping the flags in half to throw them up in the air as confetti. After the terrorism our country has faced where is our respect for this symbol of our nation? 
If you did not want the burden of holding the flag through out the game you should not have taken it -or after the pre-game tribute you should have folded it up and put it in your pock­et. In any case those who call themselves Americans should not have ripped up our flag or thrown it on the ground for someone else to step on. These were again the same people at half­time who stood up while ~I am proud to be an American" was being sung. 
Americans need to learn what it is to be an American daily and not just when we are called to defend our honor. We should be proud to have the flag hanging in our windows or to be wearing it on our shirt -but instead it is a symbol that is rarely thought about. 
We like many in the country are fair weather Americans, who like convenience. When it is brought to our attention and we are tested Americans do step up to the plate and defend what we believe. However, this is only when times are rough. Do we really understand what everyday things we take for granite? 
It is clear that America has united and rallied to defend our honor in the last two weeks we need to take time to evaluate our everyday lives and have pride in everything we do daily and not just when our country is being challenged by ter­rorists. 
Contact Courtney Boyle at 
Boyl5460@saintmarys.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for rhe highest standards ofjournalism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mmake, please concacc us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday excep, during eum and vawtion periods. The Observer is a member ofthe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
"No one really lined "Anyone who has been "I would hate to have "J hate Michigan 
up to get entitlement around Notre Dame to lock my door State. I haven't knows the difference 

tickets or the lottery everytime I leave my beaten them since 
between a problem

tickets. There were room." I've been here, and it 
tailgater ... and the tail­
just mobs ofpeople bothers me." 
gaters that arejust afew
around the ushers." Dan Wieser 
people grilling burgers." 

Notre Dame freshman at Anthony Weaver Knott Hall on theft over the defensive end on Saturday's
Liz Stevens 
Jeff Shoup

on U2 ticket distribution weekend game against Michigan
director of Residence Life State on tailgating 

Compiled from U-Wire reports
BEYOND CAMPUS 

McCain honors fallen UC alumnus at memorial 
BERKELEY, Calif. possibly the U.S. Capitol building. 

He wasn't just a man who most 
McCain said he was working at the likely fought against terrorist hijack­Capitol along with hundreds of other ers, perhaps saving thousands of lawmakers at the time of the attacks, Americans lives. and that Bingham quite possibly saved 
He was also a University of his life. California-Berkeley rugby player and "I may very well owe my life to a fraternity member, a passionate Mark," McCain said. Cal football fan who tackled the Telephone calls from the ill-fated Stanford Tree at a Big Game and a flight and evidence from the cockpit guy who once sneaked into Wheeler voice recorder indicate that the Hall to catch a sold-out movie. hijackers were thwarted by the pas­
And for his friends and family and sengers aboard. The plane crashed in even a prominent U.S. senator, he Pennsylvania, killing all aboard. will always be remembered as an Saturday. McCain said the actions taken by American hero. About 500 mourners, including Sen. Bingham and others on the flight were 
Mark Bingham, 31, a UC Berkeley John McCain, R-Arizona, gathered in of the highest level of patriotism. alumnus who may have helped fight Wheeler Auditorium to honor a man "I love my country and take pride in off terrorist hijackers on United who may have played a role in pre­serving her," McCain said. "But I Airlines Flight 93, was honored at a venting San Francisco-bound Flight cannot say that I love her more or as memorial service at UC Berkeley 93 from reaching its intended target, well as Mark Bingham did." 
OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY 
Glenn speaks to high schoolers 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 
Astronaut and former Sen. John Glenn and Ohio Secretary of State Kenneth Blackwell addressed 229 high school students at Ohio State University about the importance of citizenship and voting especially in regards to the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11. Students rep­resenting eight central Ohio high schools filled the Michael Moritz College of Law Auditorium for a Youth Summit as a part of the Kids Voting 2000 program spon­sored by the John Glenn Institute. Although the focus of the day was the importance of voting and getting involved with politics, Glenn and Blackwell used most of their time to talk about the terrorist attacks and the effects they have on students. Glenn began his speech by saying the world had changed a lot in the past couple weeks. "What has changed is hatred: pure, unadulterat­ed hatred," Glenn said. "That is inconceivable, almost as inconceivable that people could turn an aircraft into what turned out to be horizontal missiles." 
GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY 

'Crossfire' returns for another week 
WASIIINGTON 
"Crossfire" co-hosts Tucker Carlson and Bill Press engaged the George Washington University student body in friendly banter to warm up for a live broadcast from campus Thursday. Citing packed audiences, a Hatchet article and intelligent questions from the students as rea­sons to keep up the new town hall meeting format, they announced the show would call GW home for one more week. Shows Thursday and Friday continued a trend set earlier in the week -Republicans and Democrats cast­ing aside political arsenal and mostly agreeing on a wartime cause against terrorists. Sens. Joseph Biden, Jr. (D-Del.) and Fred Thompson (R-Tenn.) outlined the diffi­cult road ahead for the country Thursday night, two hours before President George W. Bush's speech before a joint session of Congress. "Crossfire" guests Reps. Mike Castle (R-Del.), John Mica (R-Fla.), Jim Moran (D-Va.) and Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) discussed possible American responses to the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and Bush's speech during Friday's broadcast. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather•forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The AccuWeather® forecast for noon.Tuesday, Sept. 25. 
;I 
; 
~~dne~day 
Thursd~y_._ , Friday~ 
~
• .......... 
COLD WARM
C 2001 AccuWeolher, Inc,
~~.,y~ . 
Prtssur,; 
® © D D Cl D C2] ·:...,.. :· 

High I.OW Shower• Rain T••torm• FlurrlH Snow Ice Su,iny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy
Sunday . 
Via Asscrctafod Press 

Atlanta 72 52 Las Vegas 99 73 Portland 70 54 Baltimore 72 63 Memphis 70 48 Sacramento 79 52 Boston 73 64 Milwaukee 57 39 St. Louis 63 39
4,~-~cQ.Q.Ql) ~~ 

Chicago 50 39 New Yori< 73 64 Tampa 88 72 
ShOwers T-storms Ram Flu,;ies S~o·.:.: Ice Sunny pr_ Cloudy Cloudy 

Houston 81 55 Philadelphia 73 64 Washington DC 73 63 
ViaAssociatOO Ptess GraphicsNet 



Tuesday, September 25, 2001 The Observer . NEWS page 3 

AWARDS FOR ACCOUNTING 
Lecture focuses on reading scriptures 
and read it, is when ones heart By SARAH NELLIGAN is enlarger," Cavadini said. News Writer Cavadini explained that read­
ing scripture becomes a prayer 
Dr. John Cavadini gave the as it expands one's imagination second lecture Monday night by the love of God. The reading for Saint Mary's endowed spiri­of scripture allows one to tuality series, enlarge his or her vision and to 
Cavadini's lecture, entitled "A see beyond what narrows that 
Layman asks ... Lord Teach Me vision, namely money, prestige to Pray," focused on how peo­and influence. ple read scripture and how to Cavadini quoted St. share the reading with family. Augustine, the Book of Origin 
"We should to scripture if we and Dorothy Day's biography to want to pray. The reading support his theory on prayer. itself, seeking, is already a pray According to Cavadini, the in itself," said Cavadini, an best way to pray is together, associate professor of theology especially with one's family. He and director of the Institute for suggested that families have Church Life at Notre Dame. nightly prayer together, even if 
Cavadini explained that there it is only for 10 minutes. As the is a restlessness in everyone father of seven children, concerning prayer and through Cavadini practices what he the reading of scripture one preaches and spends time can begin seeking and praying praying with his family. While to God. sometimes they do miss a night "The study of scripture, and of prayer , he believes it is the

Joyce Hicks receives the Bridget Anderson KPMG Award for Principles of Accounting at the 
the attempt to understand it desire and sense to pray that is

Accounting Awards Reception Monday at Saint Mary's. 

At GE, your career can takeyou anywhere. The diversity of Come Meet Engineering Reps at the 
our businesses means new opportunities are constantly unfolding. And our fast-paced, informal environment is designed to help you explore them. You can move tram industry to industry, Industry Day Career Fair 
discipline to discipline andnever leave GE. Sept. 26th, 10:00-4:00 
Because we have small company attitudes with JACC -North Dome large company strengths, we set no limits, no boundaries. Were ahigh-spirited company where people are free For more info on opportunities at GE, go to to dream and encouraged to take risks. www.gecareers.com/notredame. 
Find out foryourself why GEhas been honoredas America's Most Admired Company, by Fortune Magazine, fouryears in a row. An Equal Opportunity Employer. 

We bring good things to life.

t-------------------------------------
Aircralt Engines Appliances A111ation Services Capital Services Card Services Commercial Equipment Financing Commercial Finance Research & Development Employers Reinsurance Corporation Financial Assurance Equity Global Consumer Finance Global Exchange Services Industrial Systems Lighting Medical Systems Mortgage Insurance NBC Plastics Power Systems Real Estate Specialty Materials Structured Finance Group Supply Transportation Systems 
important. 
The last lecture to be pre­sented in this series is "Does Prayer Make Sense?" which will be given by Kathleen Dolphin tonight, in Stapleton lounge of LeMans Hall at 7 p.m. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu. 
Crime rate falls in NYC after attack 
NEW YORK 
Violent crime dropped sharply in New York City last week compared with the same period a year ago, according to figures released Monday. 
Officials linked the 17 .5 per­cent drop in part to the stepped-up police presence fol­lowing the terrorist attacks. 
"Manhattan has got to be the most policed area in the nation right now," Police Commissioner Bernard Kerik said. 
The Sept. 11 attacks "kind of transformed the city," he added. "This thing has scared a lot of people in the city and the people who commit criminal activities, I would imagine, are no different than anybody else." 
The city had four homicides from Sept. 17-23, compared with 10 during the same period last year. Other violent crimes -rape, robbery, felony assault, burglary, graucl larce­ny and auto theft -also decreased. 
The previous week, when the city was nearly brought to a halt by the attacks, violent crime dropped 34 percent com­pared with the year-ago period. 
Crime has fallen in the city throughout the year. There were 446 homicides citywide as of Sept. 23, compared with 508 during the same period in 
2000. 
Kerik said he believes people who died in the World Trade. Center attacks should not be counted in the city's murder statistics. 
"As far as I'm concerned, it's a war crime," he said. 

Tuesday, September 25, 2001
page 4 The Observer . NEWS 
Freeze 
continued from page 1 
international banking sys­tem." said David Aufliauser, the Treasury Department's general counsel. 
One of the big challenges is tracking money that moves through an underground banking system in the Middle East and parts of Asia, where large amounts of cash change hands in a paperless network based on personal trust. 
fn addition to bin Laden, the administration's list names Ayman al-Zawahri, a Cairo surgeon believed by terrorism experts to be bin Laden's top deputy. Al­Zawahri, a suspect in the 1981 assassination of Egyptian President Anwar Sadat, is believed to be oper­ating in Afghanistan, as is bin Laden. 
Also listed are the Egyptian Islamic Jihad, the Libyan Islamic Fighting group, the Armed Islamic Group and the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan group that Bush mentioned in his address to Congress and the nation last week. 
The United States is seek• ing permission to deploy U.S. forces in Uzbekistan, which borders Afghanistan to the north. Its president, Islam Karimov, has-~ been fighting the group. 
Bush's order listed three charitable organizations that the government said are 
BOG 
continued from page 1 
tion. 
In other news: 
.. . The Executive Board of BOG continued discussion of the grant system for co-spon­sorship. The Board has just completed the last revisions and is finalizing the forms. This will aid in responsible spending ofstudent funds. 
"This will include spending caps on everything ... and will lead to a greater responsibility of clubs and individuals to fund raise independently which will lead to co-sponsorship," said 
executive  treasurer  , Kim  
Jensen.  
.  The  Resident  Hall  

Association announced its plans for a Breast Cancer 

funding terrorist acts: Mukhtab al-Khidamat/Al Kifah, Wafa Humanitarian Organization and Al Rashid Trust. 
"They can very well have received money from Americans or from others abroad who thought they were doing good for people who need relief," said White House spokesman Fleischer. 
The Mamoun Darkazanli Import-Export Co., is the business on the list. 
The absence of Barnas, Islamic Jihad and Hezbollah -better known than most of those groups on the list ­showed the delicate path Bush must walk in trying to enlist support from Arab and Islamic states. 
Some Arab nations, includ­ing Saudi Arabia and the Gulf emirates, have indicat­ed they will not help the United States if any of these three groups become a tar• get. The Arab nations worry their citizen·s will become outraged if they help America go after groups that resist Israel. 
Raanan Gissin, Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's spokesman, said Israel had "our own list of terrorists.'' 
Separately, Attorney General John Ashcroft told the House Judiciary Committee the administra· tion would like authority to seize -rather than just freeze -assets linked to ter• rorist activities and organi­zations. 
Awareness Week beginning Oct. 11. Events proposed for this week are an Avenue Walk, candle light prayer and the wearing of pink on Thursday 
and Friday. 

. 
The Student Diversity Board will be sponsoring a "Cultural Taste Fest" also on Oct. 11 in Lemans Hall. 

. 
A blood drive will be held on Thursday, October 11 in Haggar College Center due to the increased desire of stu• dents to help the people of New York and Washington. 


"The student body will have the opportunity to donate [blood] in the memory of the Saint Mary's community affect· ed by the recent tragedies," said Nagle. 
Contact Jason McFadey at mcfarley. l@nd.edu. 



$1QInitial Deposit 
Offer ends 10/19/2001
............. ·Prices Include: 
· · · · · · · · • · · · · · · :. Motorcoach from your Puerto Vallarta from $939: college to the airport 
(based on Triple Occupancy)  ·  (Groups of 6 or more)  
March 3-10 or 10-17  :. Non-stop service out of  
Cancun from $999  :  Chicago  
(based on Quad Occupancy)  · . 7 nights at a great hotel  
March 2-9 or 9-16  :. Airport/Hotel transfers  


1-800-643-4604 www.edgertonstravel.com 
Tornado kills 2 Maryland students 
By ETAN HOROWITZ Diamondback staff writer · 
COLLEGE PAilK. Md. 
A fast-moving tornado ripped through College Park yesterday, killing two campus students, forcing the evacuation of most of Norlh Campus, destroying buildings and wreaking havoc throughout the campus. 
Gov. Parris N. Glendening vis­ited the campus last night and declared a state of emergency in Prince George's County. The campus is open today, but classes are canceled. 
Capt. Chauncey 13owers, of the Prince George's County Fire and EMS Dt~partmcnt, said two female students who were dri­ving on University Boulevard were killed after the tornado picked their vehicle up and threw it into the rear of Easton l I all. 
Porty-seven people, none with life-threatening injuries, were taken to area hospitals, Bowers said. 
Bowers also said the tornado destroyed the North Woods Buffet, the tennis bubble on Universitv Boulevard and trail­ers temporarily housing the Maryland Fire and Rescue Institute, located behind the Clarice Smith Performing Arts Center. The campus day care center also sustained severe damage. 
Five people were rescued from the debris of the trailers located behind the Arts Center, Bowers said. Search dogs and thermal imaging cameras were used to make sure no one else was trapped in the rubble. 
At least 2,500 students were displaced yesterday when six dorms were evacuated for more than five hours due to damage from the storm, campus 

CENTER roR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
CHICAGO: 
spokesman George Cathcart said. Students were allowed to return at about 11 p.m. Residents of University Courtyard were unable to return to their residences last night and the campus made no contingency plan to house them. 
"We do have damage in prob­ably six resident life buildings," Cathcart said. 
"None of it is really serious it seems at this point -trees on porches, [roofing materials] pulled loose, broken windows." 
Bowers reported moderate damage to the dorms. Many dorms lost power yesterday, but Cathcart said most power had been returned to the dorms last night. Power at the Courtyard had not been restored last night and PEPCO reported 17,000 customers in Prince George's County without power. 
"The damage is really severe," PEPCO spokesman Makini Street said. "We've got crews working into the night." 
Cathcart confirmed the two fatalities and said that other campus injuries were "mostly cuts and nothing serious." Some injuries were treated at the 
University Health Center and others were transported to Washington Adventist Hospital. 
Calvin Meadows, a meteoro­logical technician with the Baltimore-Washington office of the National Weather Service, said a tornado estimated to be traveling at about 40 miles per hour moved from Stafford County, Va., through Washington and into northern Prince George's County. He said the tornado touched down in Beltsville at 5:20 p.m., in College Park at 5:24 and in northern Laurel at 5:45. Meadows confirmed the fatali· ties and said there were reports 

of damaged houses, downed 
poles and overturned cars . 
throughout Prince George's 
County. 

Meadows said the tornadoes were not a surprise and warn• ings were issued at about 5:10 
p.m. for Northern Prince George's County. He said high pressure over the past several davs has caused moisture over the Eastern Sea Board. 
That moisture, combined with a cold front, triggers a tornado. The area around Denton Hall and the Arts Center looked like a war zone. Guard houses were destroyed, trees strewn along the roads, light posts foiled, and trucks, cars and other vehicles overturned with windows blown out. 
A group of three construction trailers, maintained by Turner Construction, which has been working on the Arts Center, were ·completely destroyed along with cars parked along­side them. The trailers normal• Iv house 45 offices, officials s·aid. Campus President C.D. Mote Jr. said seven people were inside the trailers at the time the tornado hit but were all accounted for. Some of the peo• pie suffered injuries. 
Mote was sitting in his office when the tornado hit. He said he saw it move across the President's residence. He then left the building and went over to the Performing Arts Center where his wife was. Mote also toured the area where the trail• ers were destroyed. 
"It's total devastation," he said. "[The tornado was] impressive in its voracity." 
Diamondback staff writers Hattie Brown, Alyssa Watzman. Catherine Matacic and. Jonathan Schuler contributed to this report. 
Organizing For Justice on the Streets of Chicago! 
¦ 
Learn how the Church is Responding to Poverty and Injustice 

¦ 
Meet the organizers, pastors, lay leaders, & Other Advocates of the poor


City of HOPE? 
Come and see... 
Social Concerns Seminar Theology 368 
In Chicago, January 8-13,2002 
1( 
ROBINSON COMMUNfTY LEARNING CENTER 
¦ Learn about key issues affecting communities: 
o 
Violence 

o 
Housing 

o 
diversity 


• Explore Summer & Post Graduate Opportunities 
Applications available at: 
• 
the Center for Social Concerns 

• 
Robinson Community Learning Center 


Application deadline; Monday, October 8, noon 
For more information, please Contact Jay Caponigro at the RCLC 631-9423 


ATION 
Tuesday, September 25, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIHE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Russia harvests record grain crop: 
Russia has harvested 84.7 million tons of grain so far this year -already above the forecast for 2001, despite the fact that farm­ers have harvested grain from only about 80 percent of land so far. Agriculture officials have said the bigger harvest will allow Russia -once one of the world's largest grain importers -to meet its domestic needs and export some grain. 
Rebels capture eastern Congo town: Rwandan and Burundian rebels aid~d by Congolese army officers captured a strategic town in eastern Congo, a Congolese rebel leader said yesterday. This development puts increasing pressure on efforts to end the war that has claimed an estimated 2.5 mil­lion lives. most of them civilian victims of hunger and disease. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
3 die in Alabama mine blast: An explosion in a coal mine killed at least three miners and left nine others missing and feared dead, a spokesman said. If the deaths are confirmed, it would be the worst mining accident in the United States since 1984. Some of the victims were volunteer rescue team members who went into the mine, the nation's deepest, after a cave-in. 
Bush plans to meet with leaders: 
President Bush will meet this week with lead­ers of Belgium and Jordan, part of efforts to shore up diploma.tic ties in the campaign against terrorism. Bush will meet at the White House Thursday with Belgian Prime Minister Guy Verhofstadt, whose country now holds the European Union presidency. On Friday, he will host King Abdullah Il of Jordan, the White House announced Monday. The presi­dent plans to host Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi Tuesday. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
More Hoosiers forced onto wel­fare: For the first time in seven years, the number of people enrolled in Indiana's wel­fare programs has increased as layoffs from a weakening economy force more workers to seek public assistance. The state's welfare caseload jumped 13 percent during the fiscal year that ended June 30. Nearly 13,000 peo­ple were added to the rolls over the previous year, The Indianapolis Star reported yester­day. In all, nearly 112,000 Hoosiers received welfare checks. 
Market Watch September 24 

Dow 8,603.86 +368.05 
Cornposit]~ Same: 

Volume:
c:j 
166 
NIA 

AMEX: 780.66 --6.16 NASDAQ: 1499.40 · +7621 NYSE: 521.42 +1721 S&P500: 1003.45 +37.65 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRIC 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +3.89 +0.47 12.c NASDAQ 100 (QQQ) +5.04 +1.42 29.(INTEL CORP (INTC) +10.41 +2.01 21. ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +16.36 +1.76 12.C SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) +9.67 +0.77 8. 
PAKISTAN 

A..sociated Press 
ISLAMABAD 
With Osama bin Laden exhorting followers to stay "steadfast on the path of jihad" -holy war -the hard-line Taliban government warned the Americans yesterday that they were "igniting a fire that will burn them" if they attack Afghanistan. 
In signs of an intensify­ing showdown over Afghanistan's refusal to surrender bin Laden, the prime suspect in the dev­astating terror attacks on the United States, the Taliban drastically cur­tailed the activities of the remaining United Nations relief workers inside Afghanistan, and neigh­boring Pakistan pulled its diplomats out of the Afghan capital, Kabul, in what could be a prelude to severing diplomatic ties. 
The Taliban, who con­trol more than 90 per­cent of Afghan territory, have been battling a northern-based opposi­tion alliance for control of strategic areas north of Kabul. Heavy exchanges of mortar and artillery fire could be heard Monday in the Panjshir Valley, 45 miles north of the Afghan capi­ta!. 
The United States and its allies have increased contacts with those forces in preparation for a possible assault on both bin Laden's bases and his Taliban hosts. 
Bin Laden's latest call to arms came in a state­ment provided Monday to Qatar's Al-Jazeera satel­lite channel, which the exiled Saudi multimillion­aire and accused terror­ist mastermind often uses to communicate with the outside world. 
"I announce to you, our beloved brothers, that we are steadfast on the path of jihad with the heroic, 
faithful Afghan people," said the· statement, signed by bin Laden and dated Sunday. 
Bin Laden called on "our Muslim brothers in Pakistan" to do their utmost "to push the American crusader forces from invading Pakistan and Afghanistan." 
The Taliban have rebuffed U.S. demands to hand over bin Laden in the wake of Sept. 11 sui­cide strikes that toppled the twin towers of the World Trade Center and wrecked one wing of the Pentagon. Bin Laden has twice denied involvement in the terror attacks. 

FAA weighs airline security moves 
ommendations by two newly estab­for passengers. Instead, they

Associated Press 
lished task forces. believe, it is possible the devices 
NEW YORK Already, airports are being were planted on the planes while 

Federal aviation officials said required to do criminal background they were parked on the tarmac by yesterday they are considering checks of all employees who have someone with access to the air­banning early seat selection and access to secure areas. Officials are craft. carry on baggage as security is re-checking the backgrounds of all That is also a reason why the reviewed in the wake of this employees who have security task forces are looking at eliminat­month's terrorist attacks. badges permitting access to the ing assigned seats. Investigators 
Federal Aviation Administration airplanes at airports. found box cutters aboard at least chief Jane Garvey, who traveled to Some aviation officials think it is two other airplanes that were New York Monday to hold meetings possible that knives and box cut­grounded following the hijackings. and assess security at John F. ters used by the hijackers to com­The reason for banning carry-on Kennedy Airport, said a host of mandeer four commercial airliners baggage would be to give security security measures was being dis­Sept. 11 were not smuggled in screeners more time to check pas­cussed in advance of the final rec-through the security checkpoints sengers who are boarding flights. 
page 6 The Observer . NEWS Tuesday, September 25, 2001 
the position that in Notre Earl Warren on a campus Cekanski Farrand only rarely for the South Bend Common Dame's first year of coeduca­tour. At that point in school these days, said he still sees in Council.
Congress 
tional undergraduate study, history, women couldn't walk her the hard-working young She has worked part time as 
rectors and administrators on the University's golf course woman he first met as a pre­deputy county attorney for St.
continued from page 1 
should encourage positive or swim at the Rockne cocious Joseph County Cekanski Farrand's time at interaction between the sexes. Memorial, Cekanski Farrand law stu-since 1987. Notre Dame -years she In 197 3, after a campus said. dent. "... Being at Notre D_ame Cekanski 
called the best of her life -speech by then-Sen. Margaret Cekanski Farrand took foot­I Farrand's philos­
and working in the legal 

shaped the values she would J. Smith, the only woman in ball fan Warren to the Joyce thought ophy of welcom­bring to Congress, she said. the U.S. Senate at the time, Center weight room where the she was field wasn't always a ing people and "There's something special the politician stopped for an athletes trained, another place t o u g h cakewalk. There have their ideas -like as far as the principles you informal talk at Breen-Phillips off limits to women. and also the picnic banner
been many challenges."

take with you away from here Hall, where Cekanski Farrand "I told him that I couldn't go smart 30 years ago ­for the rest of your life," she was rectress then. in and to remember what you and gen­into has been key 
said. "One thing she told us all," see when you go in there," she erous," Kathy Cekanski Farrand in her profession­While football games and she said of Smith's discussion said. "He did. He came out ND alumna al success, she legal syrn-with the and described to me in vivid said.
and congressional candidate

posiums Breen­detail everything he had seen "My door is still bring ''There's something special as Phillips inside there." always open,'' she 
group, Of all the contacts Cekanski said. "It's like
Cckanski 
Jar as the principles you take 
Farrand to "is never Farrand has made at Notre 1-Iesburgh said. "You need that when I was a rector. Rectors her alma with you away from here for forget Dame, Father Theodore in a leader." should have an open door and mater, the the rest ofyour life. " t h a t Hesburgh has been most valu­"She's always been very be there for students." visits are you're a able. She visited the University vital. with all her work at ''At the same time, being at infrequent. lady first. president emeritus before school and in the halls. [As a Notre Dame and working in 
But she Kathy Cekanski Farrand It was a deciding to run for the con­congressional candidatol. she the legal field, wasn't always a ND alumna v e r y gressional seat. will certainly be out there for cakewalk. There have been
recalled 
fondly and congressional candidate impor­"There·•s a spirit that he women," he said. many challenges," she said. memories tant mes-brings to always keep those Cekanski Farrand, originally For Cekanski Farrand, of her time sage." lines of communication open of Cleveland, Ohio, graduated Congress may be the next big here as a As a better than anyone I know," from Ohio State University in one. student student, she said. 1970 with a bachelor's degree and rectress. Cekanski Farrand's experi­Hesburgh's advice? in education. 
She thought of themed coed­ences proved equally influen­"He tol.d me to be myself, She has worked since 1974 ucational activities like pop­tial. and that's what I'm going to in private law practice in corn or old-movie nights she University officials chose her do," she said. 'Tm not going South Bend. Since 1975, she planned while rectress at in 1971 to take former to be someone I'm not." has been a labor negotiator Contact Jason McFarley at Radin Hall in 1972. She took Supreme Court Chief Justice Ilesburgh, who sees for the city and an attorney mcfarley.l@nd.edu.
. ---­

================================================--J 
J

Colleges block access to Web in classrooms 
he said. "But there's a good
Associated Press 
lesson to be learned from it. It might help rebuild people'sBOSTON habits so that they focus moreTwo colleges on the cutting (on class)." 
edge of Internet technology are 
Bentley, which in 1985 
now pioneering solutions to a 
became one of the first U.S.
rapidly growing problem: stu­colleges to require undergrad­dents who pay more attention uates to have computers, first 
to their computers than to 
implemented the blocking tech­their professors. 
nology in classrooms in the lastBentley and Babson colleges academic year. Babson had a .were among the first in the primitive version of the soft­nation to wire their classrooms ware installed three years ago.
for the Internet. And now Cabletron , a Rochester,
they're spending tens of thou­N.H.-based company founded
sands of dollars on software 
by --Babson alumnus Craigand hardware that lets profes­Benson, developed the original
sors block some Internet 
Babson blocking program.
access in classrooms with net­
Enterasys, a subsidiary of
work connections. 
Cabletron, developed Bentley's "Faculty members were find­program and recently upgrad­
ing students surfing the Net, ed the one at Babson. Both
sending instant messages, even schools were involved in thelooking at porn in some of the development.
freshman intro classes," said Phillip Knute!, Bentley's direc­tor of academic technology. 
As another deterrent, some classrooms at Bentley have technology that allows teach­ers to capture a student's e­mails or instant messages and display them on a large screen for the whole class to see. 
The software doesn't censor which sites a student can visit on the Internet. Instead, a pro­fessor can choose whether classes have access to the entire Internet or just the school's internal network. Professors can also block out e-mail and instant messaging. 
Babson math professor Joe Aieta said his students have told him the temptation to use the Internet during class is too great when it is at their finger­tips. That's why Aieta occa­sionally limits their access. 
"They think they can keep up with the classwork while send­ing aiid receiving messages," Aieta said. "But they acknowl­edged that it didn't always work so well." 
Babson freshman Patrick Lehner, 19, said the network­blocking software doesn't bother him that much. 
"Are students here happy or proud about it? Probably not," 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM 
rN 
DUBLIN,IRELAND 
HThe Best of' Both Worlds"' 
INFORMATION MEETING 
Tuesday,Sept.25,2001 155 DeBartolo 5:00-6:00 PM 
With Claudia Ksehnan~ Associate Director International Sf;udy Programs 
Application Deadline: December 1 For Fall 2002 ...:_ Spring 2003 A Y 2002-2003 
Applications: www.nd.edu/-intlstud 

THE WASHINGTON PROGRAM 
APPLICATIONMEETING 
For Fall 2002 and Spring 2003 
Wednesday, September 26 
6:30 P.M. 129 DeBartolo 

FRESHMEN, SOPHOMORES, & JUNIORS ARE WELCOME 

Tuesday, September 25, 2001 The Observer . NEWS page 7 
Study: Drunken driving rising 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The number of people killed by drunken drivers increased last year for the first time in five years. according to federal data released Monday. 
Overall highway deaths increased slightly in 2000 to 41,812, up from 41,717 in 1999. according to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. forty percent of those, or 16,653, involved alcohol, u_p from 38 percent, or 15,976, the previ­ous year. 
It is only the second time alcohol-related deaths have increased since 1986, when 24,045 people were killed. The number of deaths rose 4 per­cent from 1994 to 1995, although an overall rise in the number of deaths kept the per­centage of deaths that involved alcohol at the same level. 
Over the past two decades, auto safety advocates have pushed successfully for tougher impaired-driving laws They also want tougher penal­and made drinking and driving ties for people who repeatedly a social taboo. Advocates say break drunken driving laws more needs to be done to and arc involved in many of 
reach problem drinkers. the fatal crashes. 
"We've already deterred vir­"[t's like America has tually alt of the social become complacent," said drinkers," said Chuck Hurley of Millie Webb, president of the National Safety Council. Mother's Against Drunk "We're Driving. now down "It's time
"It's time for Americans to 
to the f o r 
hard core realize that drunken driving 
Americans of people is still the mostfrequently to realize who con• that drunk•
committed violent crime 
tinue to en driving is 
drink and in our country. " still the drive in most fre­spite of quently
Millie Webb 

public committed
president of 

scorn, and violent
Mother's Against Drunk Driving
obviously crime in our 
the only thing they will respond to is increased enforcement." 
Safety advocates are pushing for state legislatures to lower the legal standard for drunken driving to 0.08 percent blood alcohol content. Many states now have a 0.10 standard. 

fR1DAY1 SEPT, 28 8:30PM NO ExPRESS 
Ul)rJER 1E\fEL OF UfORroHEl 
~ OP Af HO Exf>REss ltMlm> ro 32. PEOPtt 
TENORS AND BASSES 
-e­
sArNr 
MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME, IN 

STILL NEEDED! 
for the SMC-ND 
Room 114 Moreau Center for the Arts Saint Mary's College 
Fall Performances Include Choral Concert November 8 Lessons & Carols December 9 
Call 284-4633 for more information or come to a rehearsal. 
country." NHTSA also found that 
motorcycle deaths rose signifi­
cantly, from 2,483 in 1999 to 
2,862 in 2000. It's the third 
straight yP.ar of higher motor­
cycle fatalities after 17 years of 
declines. Motorcycle deaths reached a low point in 1997. Since then, at least four states -Texas, Arkansas, Kentucky and Louisiana -have repealed their mandatory helmet laws for adult drivers. The number of traffic deaths involving chil­dren under 16 -2,811 -was the lowest since 1975. "America's highways are safer than ever for children, and the his· toric low for last year underscores the effec­tiveness of our highway safety efforts," Transportation Secretary Norman Mineta said. 
Room 300, University Health Services Bldg Co-led by Len Jiickman, Ph.D. & Wendy Settle, Ph.D. University Counseling Center 
We continue to grieve in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks on the United States. Feehng numb, angry, and sad are all normal expressions of adjustment to loss. There is no single right way to get through a tragedy like this. One way is by connecting with others and exchanging stories about how we have been affected. Catastrophic tragedies can also trigger feelings of grief related to our past experiences with loss and trauma. Understanding and dealing with grief that comes up from both current and past losses is important for making sense out of our reactions ... and for healing. 
Drop in this Wednesday September 26th at 4:00 to connect 
with other students who are grieving. Come hear about how we can grieve, cope, take care of ourselves, and take care of each other. Come for yourself; come for your friends. 
If you wish to join us after September 26th, 
please register (63 l-7336) and ask to speak to Len Hickman or Wendy Settle 

U.S. military restarts exercises in Vieques · 
Associated Press 
VIEQUES, Puerto Rico 
F-18 jetfighters dropped non­explosive training bombs on the Vieques range Monday in the first full-scale military exercises since the United States declared war on terrorism. 
Protesters toned down their demonstrations against military training on the island range in a show of solidarity with the victims of the attacks in New York and Washington, and on l'vlonday the 20 protesters on hand prayed for peace. 
"We think war isn't the solu• tion," said Maria de los Angelos Fonseca. "The problem· is that now the United States can say Vieques is necessary." 
Nevertheless, some other pro­testers cut through 60 feet of Navy fence on Sunday night. No one was arrested, and th~ Navy said the fence was quickly repaired. 
Opponents say the Navy bom­bardments harm the environ­ment and residents' health. The Navy denies its exercises harm Vieques, where 9,100 people live in a civilian sector separat­ed from the firing range by 10 miles of forested hills. 
The Navy has used Vieques for six decades, training sailors for major conflicts from World War II to the Gulf War. 
On Mondav, F/A-18 Hornet fighter bombers dropped 500­pound and 25-pound inert bombs on the Vieques range, said Navy spokesman Lt. Corey Barker. 
Earlier, the guided missile destroyers USS The Sullivans and USS Spruance fired inert 5­inch shells at the range. 
Understanding Our Grief ... in the wake ofoyr nation's tragedy & other losses we have experienced Support Group Wednesdays 4:00 -5:15 

The Navy had used live bombs until a Marine jct dropped two bombs off target in 1999, killing a Puerto Rican guard on the range and igniting a storm of protest that contin• ues. 
Those fatal exercises involved the USS John F. Kennedy, the aircraft carrier participating in the current exercise with about 12,000 sailors and its battle group of cruisers, destroyers, frigates and attack submarines. 
The training on Vieques has taken on a new significance since President Bush warned the U.S. military to be ready for conOict. 
Most protest groups agreed not to invade Navy lands out of unity with the attacks' victims and for security reasons. In the past, h.undreds of people were arrested for trespassing, prose­cuted and jailed. 
At the gate of Camp Garcia. where protesters often congre· gate, the Navy posted sailors with a machine gun mounted on the back of a truck. 
In a nonbinding referendum in July, nearly 70 percent of Vieques voters said the Navy should leave immediately. A binding federal referendum scheduled for November would ask islanders whether the Navy should leave in 2003 or stay· and pay $50 million for infra­structure and public works pro­jects. 
A House defense bill currently under consideration in Washington would cancel the November referendum and require the Navy to continue training on Vieques until an equivalent site is found. 
A vote is expected this week. 


.----------------~------­
page 8 Tuesday, September 25, 2001
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
On the 
Way 
with f"athe-v-J. 
~ What is the Catholic position on War? 
In rhe past two weeks as the shock of the great tragedy of the terrorist at­tack on New York and Washington has given way to outrage and anger, the question ofwar, even a new kind ofwar, has become the central focus of our nation. There is among us a dawning awareness of the coming conflict. What is the Christian response to such horrific aggression? The Church always presumes against war. In the first centuries of the Church, during the age of Roman persecutions, Christians preferred mar­tyrdom to military service. Christians were essentially pacifists. They remem­bered the words of our Lord, "But I say to you, love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you." (Mc. 5:22) However, after the conversion of Constantine s.nd the Roman Empire to Christianity, and especially as the Em­pire faced succeeding waves ofmilitary invasions, Christian thought began to seek a balance between the presump­tion against violence and the need to defend society as a whole and especially the innocent. The Just War Theory which the Church employs even today has its roots in St. Augustine and still heavily influences modern thought on the proper limits of military engagement. It seeks to minimize both the occasions of armed conflict as well as limit the destructiveness of such conflicts when they do occur. 

To declare war justly, the theory demands the following limits. All dip­lomatic alternatives must be exhausted. War may be engaged only as a defen­sive measure, to correct a wrong suf­fered. It may be waged only by a legiti­
mate political au­thority rather than by independent groups or organiza­tions within soci­ety. Lastly, a war may be justly fought only if there is a reasonable ex­pectation of suc­cess. 
Once a war has been declared, the Just War Theory places demands on the ways in which war may be fought ever, during the past century we on numerous occasions have flaunted these principles. Saturation bombing in Germany and North Vietnam, not too mention the nuclear assaults on Japan, are lasting examples of the tar­geting of civilians. 
This is an extraordinarily complex issue which stems from the Church's historical attempt to grapple with the Gospel ofJesus and the example of the early Christian community on rhe one hand, and the practical need to pro-
Today the Church recognizes the legitimacy of Christian's pacifist's conscience as a fidelity to the Gospel. It also appreciates the need to defend one's nation against all unjust attack. 

as well. Because a just war can only be defensive in nature, all targets of ag­gression must be limited to military personnel and equipment. The prin­ciple of proportionality requires that the good of victory must not be out­weighed by the destruction employed to achieve it. 
The principles of the Just War Theory shape the way we think ofwar, today more than ever. It is hard to imagine the U.S engaging in a war to­day that is not defensive. The modern smart bombs were designed, at least in pare, to limit civilian casualties. How-

Offee Coffee & Donuts 

weanesaays

( o-Mo 

8:00 p.m. Hammes Student Lounge 
• take a study break 
• meet up. with friends 
• grab a snack 

Christian Fellowship, Music & Prayer 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 
vide for a defense against aggression. Today the Church recognizes the le­gitimacy of Christian's pacifist's conscience as a fi­delity to the Gos­pel. le also appre­ciates the need to defend one's nation against all unjust attack. 
As we prepare for an extended conflict against people whose be­
liefs have justified wars of terror, we should, in the spirit of the Gospel, be tireless in our efforts to seek non-vio­lent means of achieving and preserv­ing a new peace. When military solu­tions are required, we must seek to limit them, as much as possible, to actions which do not seek vengeance bur are clearly aimed at preventing future trag­edies of terror. 
Fr. ]. Steele, CSC welcomes your questions andcommentsforfuture The Way columns. Email him at ministry. I @nd.edu. 
Visit us at 
The Coleman Family Center 
for Campus Ministry 


Freshman Retreat #37 (November 9-10, 2001) 
Monday, October 1through Monday, November 5 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Campus Bible Study
•
7:00 p.m. 
114 Coleman-Morse Center Conference Room 


Conversation on Vocations for Women 
7:30 p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Coffee at the Co-Mo 
8:00 p.m. Lounge, Coleman-Morse Center 

807 Mass 
8:00 p.m. Lounge, Coleman-Morse Center 
NOE Retreat #67 
Fatima Retreat Center 
Freshman Retreat #36 
Sacred Heart Parish Center 

RCIA Inquiry Session 
10:00 a..m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
Learning to Talk About Race Retreat for Student Leaders 
Sacred Heart Parish Center 

RCIA Study Session 
6:30 p.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
The Way Bible Study 
8:30 p.m. 331 Coleman-Morse Center 
International Student Open House 
9:00 p.m. 102/103 Coleman-Morse Center 

lnte~Uffill 
--·=-t •.___...-\.rer 
Every Wednesday lli&hi All are welcome Io p.m. • Morrissey Hall Chapel 
featuring the Celebration Choir 
OFFICE HOURS 114 -Retreats Area Mon-Thurs 8:oo a.m. -9:00 p.m. Fri 8:oo a.m. -5:00 p.m. 
309 Reception Area Mon -Fri B:oo a.m. -5:00 p.m. 
631-7800 
email: ministry.1@nd.edu web: www.nd.edu/~ministry 

Tuesday, September 25, 2001 The Observer . BUSINESS NEWS page 9 
American Airlines chair gives up salary for a year 
salary for the rest of the year. the airlines at week's end,
Associated Press 
American announced last a pp roving a multibillion-dollar week that it would lay off at aid package after lobbying byFORT WORTII, Texas 
least 20,000 workers in the Cartv and other airlines
Trying to restore confidence wake of the Sept. 11 terrorist chiefs.
in the airline, American 
attacks that undercut already Carty said the governmentAirlines chairman Donald J. 
weak demand for air travel. aid and lavoffs "are notCarty said Monday he has The company's stock was bat­enough to sa·ve the company.
bought 40,000 shares of com­
tered on Wall Street. Our passengers have not come pany stock and will give up his Congress came to the aid of back to us yet." 
1JNIVENSITV OF NOTR.& DAME 
INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS 
.1S2 HURLEY BUILDING T: 6:Jl-588:! 
F: 631-5771 


SANTIAGO~ CHILE 
INFORlVIATION MEETING 
'With Carmen Nanni Student Returnees 
Tuesday, September 25, 2001 217 DeBartolo 5:00-6:30 p.m. 
IT'S NOT TOO LATE TO APPLY FOR SPRING 2002. 
Application Deadllng: Oct. 1, 2001 for Spring 2002 Dec. 1, 2001 for Fall '02 and All Year 2002-03 Applications Available: ~-nd.edu/~int:lstud/ 
Occupancy on American's planes is "still very. very low." he said. 
"This will likely be another tough week for us, and I dare­say it won't be our last tough week together either," Carty said. "But better days are coming. I strongly believe in the future of American, so much so that late last week I bought 40,000 shares of AMR stock on the open market." 
AMR shares rose 40 cents to close at $18.30 in trading Monday on the New York Stock Exchange. At Friday's closing price, Carty's 40,000 shares would have cost $716,000. 
Hacker changes news content on Yahoo site 
Nevertheless, the incident high­
Associated Press 
lights how vulnerable the Internet could be as a tool forSAN JOSE, Calif. 
quickly spreading misinforma­
The dangers of Internet 
tion. 
worms and viruses are well 
That premise could be dan­known, but security experts are gerous, considering the sensitiv­warning of a more pernicious ity of the news surrounding tho and potentially more damaging Sept. 11 terrorist attacks andkind of attack -the manipula­their aftermath. 
tion of content on trusted Web Yahoo, which claims to havesites. 
200 million registered users, isLast week, Yahoo was alerted one of the Internet's most popu­by security intelligence compa­lar sources of information. Theny SecurityFocus.com that a company aggregates informa­
hacker had rather easily tion from several newsentered Yahoo's news pages providers, including The
and inserted phony quotes and wrong information on stories. Associated Press. 
The hacker, 20-year-old "A lot of attention has been Adrian Lamo of San Francisco, given to the fact that data is says he wanted to show Yahoo! stolen, but not necessarily that Inc. that it needed to fix what he the integrity has been altered," considers a basic mistake · in its said Elias Ladopoulos, a former network setup. hacker who is launching a wire­
Yahoo said it has taken steps less security company in New to solve the problem. York called Digital Frameworks. 


O
THE 
BSERYER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Ha.II, Norre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Mike Connolly 
Mu;AG!NG EmTOR  BUS!NF.5S MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Pac Peters  

Ni:--ws EDITOR: Jason McFarley VJEWl'0INT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadter SAINT MARl"s EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MA.'IAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS .ADMII\lSTRATOR: Palwel Chin Wm .ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Karie McKenna 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERA! {NFO...........631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631--6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHI.EF.......................................631-4542 MANAGING EmmR/AssT. ME.. .................. 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFJCE........................................631-5313 NEWS................... ,,......................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOJNT.................................................631-5303 
observer.viewpoint.l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sporcs. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4 540 observer .scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MA!tv's ............................................. 631-4324 
observer.srnc. !@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS. ...............631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:llobseroer.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
about The Observer
archives to search for 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the UniversiryofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeirher instirurion. The Observer reserves rhe righr to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available tO all readers. The free expression ofaJl opinions through letters is <"ncouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact inforn1atiou. 
Qumioru regarding Obsmmpolicies rhou!J be direct­ed to Editor in Chiefft!ike Connolly. 
'l,UI • -~ ih.lUl•1i 'J ,.;, llf'.f, 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Helena Payne Sam Derheimer Courtney Boyle Chris Scott Elizabeth Lee Graphics Sports Andy Devoto Bryan Kronk Production Viewpoint Noah Amstadter Kristin Ycmm Lab Tech Amanda Greco 

Tuesday, September 25, 2001 
Pass on diversity and hospitality 
Bike-Aid taught me more than how to fix a flat in under two minutes or how to draft off of fellow riders. Biking approx­imately 70 miles per day, six days per week, I had the chance to visit almost 60 different com­munities this sum­
Theresa Ferry
mer and meet many new people. I learned how to 
What's Your 
relate to people 
Shade?
better and how to appreciate diversi­ty. 
When we arrived in Kansas City. Mo., Bike-Aid teamed up with a group called Hate Busters, who would join us for the ride across Missouri. This group works to call attention to hate crimes and to show that people of different races and religions can live and work together in peace. The Christian Foundation for Children and Aging invited all 35 bikers to stay at their headquarters in Kansas City. The Heart of America Indian Center made tacos for our dinner. All of the faith communities in greater Kansas City gathered for a human family reunion the following night to kick off our Missouri ride. 
At the dinner, a woman who told us to call her Mom greeted us. The burly African-American woman, who later revealed to us that she is the mother of 12 children, gave each of us a huge hug when we met her. embracing us as though we were her own children. With her amazing gospel voice. Mom McFarlane sang her rendition of "Pass it on" and set us all smiling. swaying and reaching out to one another. "I shout it out, from the mountain top. I want you to pass it on," she proclaimed to us. We were to pass on the love and hospitality from that community in Kansas City to all people we were to meet on the way to D.C. 
The next morning our ceremony on the south steps of City Hall was bathed in bright sunlight. Television and news­paper reporters vied for our attention. A phalanx of motorcycle police raced ahead to block every intersection for the next three miles so that we could get out of the city safely. Whistles and cheers came from doorways. street cor• ners and cars, from people of different colors, ages and incomes. From my bike that morning, the world looked perfect and united. It was a Camelot moment. 
We stayed in Warrensburg that night. where home stays were arranged. By twos and threes we went home with strangers who by morning were family. The following night we were hosted by the Women's Democrat Club and invited to a concert in the park in Sedalia. Christians United for Racial Equity (CURE) invited us to dinner in Jefferson City. and we lingered there long. The focus of the Bike-Aid ride, "viewing the 
U.S. through an anti-racist lens," matched well with CURE's goals and beliefs. 
The next morning we biked 75 miles up Highway 94, where the Marthasville Community Club fed us and offered us beds for the night. It was a free night, so bike maintenance, letter writing and phone calls finished my night off. and I fell fast asleep by 10 p.m. 
As the sun was rising a few of us were already on our bikes. heading for St. Louis. hoping to be1,1,t the heat expected that day. The Pilgrim Congregational Church had a feast prepared for us that evening to celebrate the end of the First Annual Heart of America Interfaith and Interracial Bicycle Tour. which is what the Bike-Aid and Hate Buster dual ride across Missouri was ofiicially titled. Youth Against Hatred and Violence per­formed a short concert for us following dinner, where they sang folk music fit­ting into our theme of racism. 
Then came a special guest. Yes, Mom McFarlane drove all the way across Missouri Lo once again sing the same song she always sings, "Pass it on." The song worked its usual magic on us and literally sent chills up my spine. I know that every note she hit and every word she sang came straight from her heart. The Hate Busters departed the next morning to head home to Kansas City, and Bike-Aid headed for Washington, D.C. 

This is only the experience I had in one of 11 states that I biked through this summer. and I wish I could share more. I've come to believe that diversity and hospitality are twin virtues in this world. I'm a Roman Catholic and a Caucasian. and I come from a low­income background. If I were to always rely on people who are just like me. I would learn very little about the world. I can't describe how humbling it was to be welcomed by such a variety of churches. families and communities across the country. I never before imag­ined that complete strangers could be so hospitable. 
Bike-Aid made me think about life at Notre Dame in a different way. We might not have the most diverse student body, but we can learn from the stu­dents who are here from different coun­tries or from minority students to whom we have never talked before. We all walk on the same campus and pass by one another day after day, but how often do we step outside of our comfort zone and meet someone new? 
Our differing races, faiths and eco­nomic backgrounds may set us apart from one another. but they can also bring us all together to share our insights. our burdens and our aspira­tions. Pass it on. 
Theresa Ferry is a Bike-Aid rider and senior in McGlinn Hall. What's Your Shade? is the Multicultural Students Programs and Services' column and appears every other Tue.,day. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
POLL QUESTION 
Are the new Dean's List requirements fair? Please e-mail viewpoint. l@nd.edu by Friday to report your answer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"True friendship's laws are by this rule express'd, welcome the coming, speed the parting guest." 
Alexander Pope writer 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, September 25, 2001 page 11 
Taxes burden the common man 
Sitting down to write this column, I had no idea. what I should even Lalk about. I talked to friends who all had some pretty good ideas. but when I think about it everything seems to have a lesser importance after Lhe events of two weeks ago today. 
John Litle 

First off, I am not writing about the World Trade Center; 
Frankly

Mike Marchand pretty 
Obnoxious

much said everything I wanted to say Monday. 
Instead I will write about something that affects us all and is completely unrelated. As one wiser than myself said, we've been reminded that we're human, but that doesn't stop us from living our lives. So without further adieu ... 
Taxes are choking the life out of the com­mon man. Believe it or not, there was a time when one person's wages could comfortably support an entire family. Now, I look at my pay stub from my summer job (I am in a low, low tax bracket mind you) and notice that anywhere from $100 to $200 is missing each and every pay period. 
This of course begs the question "What has Uncle Sam done for me in the last two weeks that is worth $200?" As you might have guessed, the answer is nothing. Nothing that the government has done for me is worth that much money in two weeks. Period. And I'm really not paying that much. This makes me angry. 
At the beginning of this year, there was much controversy raised over George W. Bush's executive order stopping the funding of abortions overseas. Much hullabaloo went into this, but no thought. You see, the real question is why am I paying for any overseas parenthood clinics, abortive or not? That's your money and mine they are just giving away; it didn't just appear out of thin air. Same goes for a few of the other controver­sies brimming in the past few months. Everyone goes into situations like stem cell research with the idea of "Where should we spend this money?" instead of the obvious question "Should we spend this money at all?" 
Personally, I think there are four things that I am willing to pay for my government to do for me. 

First, I will pay for national dcfonsc. That is something we all take for granted but that is very imporLant and can't be provided by a free market. We should fund thLc, sector and fund it well. 
Second is infrastructure. Things like roads and bridges just can't really be provided for everyone fairly unless the government han­dles them. 
Third is education. I think it is important to fund education but to use a free enterprise system of education which would include a take-it-or-leave-it vcmcher system (that is, if a school accepts a voucher, it may not accept any other monetary payment in addition). 
Lastly, I will pay for primary government funciions. That is, making, enforcing and interpreting laws. A free market can more efficiently provide everything else. If I feel generous I can donate money to the overseas parenthood clinics of which I approve. I don't need a big government intermediary decid-· ing which charity causes for me to support. 
That in mind, I will get back to my original point. The common man cannot survive when the government steals from him all he can earn. Income tax relief does nothing for the common man. It is payroll tax that needs reformation. Tax-free day is mid-May now. That's half a year working for the govern­ment. So they can do what? Spend it on some guy who's never bothered to get a job, waste it on flu shots in Uzbekistan and pay off every nation in the world that can do nothing but criticize and complain about the United States while at the same time accept­ing millions of dollars in "aid" every year. Well, I'm not buying it, and you shouldn't be either. 
John Litle is a junior MIS major who sent a resume CD to all the companies he wanted to work for. later realizing he had coded the links to his resume incorrectly. He will accept any internship you offer him. He can be contacted atjlitle@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 


Band performance thrills and inspires 
I have been a close observer of marching band performances, usually at Notre Dame Stadium, but have never been as thrilled, proud and emo­tionally involved as I was last Saturday, thanks to the remarkable perfor­mance of the Band of the Fighting Irish and the magnificent show designed and executed by Dr. Kenneth Dye in cooperation with counter­parts at Michigan State. 
While every marching and behind-the-scene member justly deserves praise for their musicianship, marching and demeanor incorporated into such an unusual and challenging ceremony, I particularly cite Tambre Paster for her skillful mastery of the true role of a drum major, that of absolute marching, formation and musical leadership. Such was specially significant as she, a student, (not a faculty band director) conducted the massed Notre Dame-Michigan State bands, while the hands of four assis­tant directors locked to her tempos and the eyes of hundreds of musi­cians and more than 80,000 spectators watched, sang and even cried a bit at the emotion generated by the exceptional performance of Sept. 22. 
I was particularly moved inasmuch as 1 too led the band through the tunnel for the first time as Notre Dame drum major when we made our Stadium entry in 1942, the first since our country entered World War II. I know the feeling. I also know the humility and the pride. Thank you and your staff, Dr. Dye, thank you Tambre, thank every one of you bandsmen. and women for being Notre Dame and making it all happen again. We won that war of 60 years ago you know, and together we will win this one too. 
For God, Country and Notre Dame. 

Jim Kress class of '48 Sept. 24, 200 I 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
This is not a time for peace 
I was deeply saddened and outraged by the tragic ter­rorist attacks in our great country against innocent men, women and children on Sept. 11. 
I was inspired by the courage, selflessness and spirit of the American people -from the heroes aboard United tlight 93, to the NYPD firefighters, to the small groups of Boy Scouts waving American flags in my town last Saturday. 
Then I read your editorial section on Sept. 17, specifi­cally an article from Mr. Aaron Kreider. I was stunned by the perspective of this graduate student that terrorists are reasonable people not to be blamed because the United States and allies controlled world economic and political systems spawning conditions for such behavior. In addition, he implies the key elements of this control, the U.S. CIA and military, should not be allowed on Notre Dame's Catholic campus. Mr. Kreider's sweeping gener­alizations attempt to take advantage of the terrible tragedy to quickly pass judgment on our government, intelligence agencies and military without coherentjusti­fication. 
Terrorists are not reasonable -they are psychopaths who are often very calculating. Early investigation reveals that unlike Mr. Kreider's description of destitute individuals suffering under U.S. oppression, these attack­ers are middle-class, well financed individuals with a fanatic hate for America. Michael Radu, a senior fellow at Foreign Policy Research Institute, specializing in the study of revolutionary and terrorist groups worldwide, writes that "the problem [these fundamental terrorists have] is not U.S. policy toward Israel, the Gulf or any­where else, the problem is the United States itself -not what we do, but who we are." 
A biographer of Osama bin Laden was asked in a recent interview, what could America do to satisfy bin Laden? His answer: "Move to another planet." Why? Because he foars what America represents: freedom of speech, freedom of religion, and freedom of economic opportunity. While it is true that we must address the terrible economic conditions reflected in many parts of the world, the sources are primarily remnants of com­munism. colonialism. tribalism and religious fascism ­not "U.S. oppression." In fact, the United States has done more than any country in the world to improve living and working conditions for millions living in third world countries. On the other hand, what has Bin Laden done? If he were interested in helping, he would use some of his massive fortune to improve their status, not to feed a global terrorist network bent on destruction. 
Mr. Kreider's implication that Notre Dame should pro­hibit ClA recruiting and military ROTC is extremely self­serving. Is Mr. Kreider saying that the U.S. should not have an intelligence capability or military? Or that Notre Dame men and women should allow others to perform these vital roles for our country? 

I believe as we look back on the tragedies in New York and Washington, we will see the dismantling of the CIA's human intelligence capabilities in the '70s as a leading cause of our inability to stop the madmen -a disman­tling fueled by people like the author Mr. Kreider quoted, Mr. Agee, who later defected to Cuba. Finally, as an Notre Dame graduate of ROTC having served 27 years with the Air Force, I can verify that there is not a finer institution in this country than the U.S. military. I have seen the courage of fighter pilots under incredibly dan­gerous conditions going to great extremes tu avoid civil­ian casualties. I have seen the selflessness and character of thousands of our airmen conducting humanitarian relief operations around the clock throughout the world. 
Make no mistake, forces of evil have attacked and wounded our great country. They have challenged our very foundation as a freedom loving people. They are not reasonable people. As described in Ecclesiastes, 'To everything there is a season, and a time for every pur­pose under the heaven ... a time to kill, and a time to heal ... a time of war and a time of peace." This is not a time for peace. 
Trey Obering 
class of'73 Sept. 24, 200 I 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

CENE.
music 

Tuesday, September 25, 2001 page 12 
ALBUM REVIEW 

Beta Band tone down psychedelic sound 
By SAM DERHEIMER 
Assistant Scene Editor 

Psychedelic trip-hop folk. lt doesn't exactly roll off the tongue. It also doesn't make a whole lot of sense. But then again, neither do the Beta Band. And 'psychedelic trip-hop folk' may just be the best way lo describe the eclectic sound of this foursome of indie rockers from Edinburgh. 
Now, after a debut full-length album which the band themselves referred to as "F---ing awful" and "rushed," the Beta Band are back, slightly more mature (though not much}, and poised for a new assault on pop-rock. 
Hot Shots II marks a significant change in style 
and songwriting for the Beta Band. Rather than the dense, epic soundscapes that once cluttered Beta Band albums, Hot Shots cuts the lard, and is drasti­cally more focused -without losing any of the 1:asy melodies or hypnotic grooves that made past albums such underground hits. 
"We tried tQ condense the songs down from 15 or 30 minutes to four," lead vocalist Stephan Mason said to a Sonicnet reporter. "We wanled to make them more exciting to listen to rather than a pain in the butt." 
The effort is blatant. Mason, along with band­mates Robin Jones on drums, Richard Greentree on bass and John Maclean as DJ/sampler, have finally achieved a quality of sound that has seemed so elu­sive to the band in the past. llot Shots is a much 


As the opening act for Radiohead across North America, the Beta Band have slowly begun to gain widespread American expsorue, gaining new fans everywhere they play. Hot Shots II provides U.S. audiences with an album that wm keep them in the spot light. 
more concise album than the Beta Band have ever been able to produce before. The ambient grooves and beau­
tiful  weirdness  
that  make  the  
Beta  Band  so  

unique remain, only more refined, more direct. Smooth, spatial architecture is the rule on Hot Shots, rather than the exception. 
The band seemed to take an almost minimalist approach to writ­ing songs like "Gone" and "Squares." Soft, mellow guitar and piano compliment each other, and 
create an eerily com­forting sort of sound. 
Of course, it wouldn't be a 13eta Band record if there weren't a few funked­out psyche­delic jams as well. In "Broke," Mason whis­pers, "A sim­ple truth is all I ask for ... no· reply" above pulsing stereophonic throngs mixed with soft gui­tar and chimes. "\V·on." a bonus track hip-hop remake of Crosby, Stills and Nash's 


Beta Band 
Astralwerks Records 

"One," exemplifies the band's creativity and willing­ness to go against the conformity of modern rock. 
After opening for Hadiohead during their North American Amnesiac tour, and having their music prominently featured in the film "High Fidelity," Beta Band are paying their dues and slowly climb­ing the rungs of rock exsposure. This politically charged, groove oriented indie rock band has a serious future, and Hot Shots II puts them well on their way. 
Contact Sam Derheimer at sderheim@nd.edu 

ALBUM REVIEW 
Ecletic mix makes Mink Car hard to classify 
simply just can't tell if They well with a great guitar riff,By TOM O'CONNELL 
Might Be Giants are rock but the lyrics are neither Scene Music Critic stars or comedians. Mink Car funny nor catchy. is an ambitious effort from Still, there arc quite a few 
There's something simulta­primary band members John tracks on Mink Car that make neously amusing and frustrat­Flansburgh and John Linnell the album worthwhile. ing about They Might Be that sweeps from hard-rock A simple and sweet melody Giants' latest release, Mink to techno to acoustic folk to makes "Another First Kiss" Car. Combining widely eclec­'70s lounge music in just 46 the best song on the record. It tic musical styles with their minutes. is a poignant love song about signature droll sense of "Bangs," a wry tribute to a a couple that is almost sick of humor, Mink Car makes it hairdo, starts the album off each other -but does not yet even harder to accurately with a smirk. Strong numbers want to admit it. classify this band. like "Hopeless Bleak Despair" "Hovering Sombrero" is by 
Cleaner and more whole­and "Older" try hard to offset far the strangest song on the some than The Bloodhound more disposable songs such album. A quiet, nostalgic little Gang. dryer and more funny as "Yeh Yeh" and "My Man." tune, this song provides little than Barenakcd Ladies, fans "I've Got a Fang" starts out explanation to the listener, but plenty to the sombrero. The singer is actually addressing the hat that floats outside his window, giving it sound advice on how to live life: "When you take yourself 
for granted/ Feel rejected or Burt Bacharach crooning in a can deliver. In trying to spanunwanted/ Know you're never Vegas lounge in the late over so many styles, the just a hat/ You're never only 
1970s. album almost spreads itself just a hat, you know." Sure Of course, it would be futile too thin. It may take some 
it's strange, but to under­

to expect this album to top time to digest, but in the end. stand They Might Be Giants, · 
TMBG's 1990 album Flood, Mink Car's funny, good­
you first have to accept quirks 

because so little could. This natured attitude will win youlike this. 
album must be judged on its over. 
The eyebrow-raising title own. track, "Mink Car" sounds like Contact Tom O'Connell at
And in the end, Mink Car a song you would have heard toconnel@nd.edu
attempts slightly more than it 




O
THE 
BSERVER 

CENE.
rnusic 

Tuesday, September 25, 2001 page 13 
ALBUM REVIEW 
V marks the next step in the evolution of Live 


By TOM O'CONNELL Scene Music Critic 
Besides being a talented rock group, Live is known for its intense spiritual themes. Live has long been a band of searchers, mixing values and styles from both east and west. The band's fifth release, Vis defi­nitely an exploratory album. Unlike so many other bands, it asks questions instead of just giving answers. In this self-reflexive album, Live speaks candidly about its own personally journey -and it's not just a generic story of an average anonymous struggle. 
Being careful to avoid pretension, the band has no 
Proving th.at even hardened alternative rock veterans can reinvent themselves, Live have reengineered their sound and their attitude on their newest release, V. 
problem admitting that it has neither reached its destination nor found the 
V 
answers. But after all, it's the journey, not the destination that really matters. 
Mixing hard rock, tripped-out rap 
Live
interludes and peaceful ballads, V does not lay down a series of radio-friendly easy hits. Singer/guitarist Ed Kowalczyk 
Radioactive Records
is an extremely charismatic front man, and fans can only hope he has what it takes to pull off an album like this. 
Rating
Luckily, he does and guitarist Chad_ 
Taylor, bassist Patrick Dahlheimer and drummer Chad Gracey provide Kowalczyk with plenty of support. 
From the earnest opening track "A Simple Creed," Live let their fans know just what they have in store for them. With eerie guest vocals from Tricky, the song sums it all up nkely; "We gotta love each other." Amen. 
"Deep Enough" is a pseudo-comic song full of bitter sexual tension. Though hurt, Kowalczyk can still laugh as he makes fun uf his ex's elderly new boyfriend: "Are those replacement hips?/ Is that a Swatch watch?" 
"People Like You" is an anthem for the music lover who will not com­promise. Refusing to conform to the empty mainstream glitter of today's popular music, the song gives hope for a better musical future. "Whatever it's gonna take/ Good luck, keep it real/ Where are the boys from LIVE?" 
Live has built its reputation and devoted fan base in part because of their mesmerizing live shows. "Transmit Your Love" speaks of their love of performing and how it keeps the band and their fans in tune with their message. "Transmit your love to me and/ Silently make me whole again." "OK?" begs the lis­tener to give up his 20th century 

"necessities" and find a way to live a no frills life, free of materialism. 
However, not everything on V is such an angry. hard tune. "Call Me A Fool" and "Nobody Knows" take the album down to a simmer, making good use of Kowalczyk's smooth and casual vocal abilities. In 1997, in a critical review of Live's third album, Secret Samadhi, "RollingStone" told the band to "Save the string section for the fifth album. boys." Well guess what? They did. And they did it well. "Overcome," a gorgeous ballad overflowing with quiet piano and a beautiful string ensemble, may be on par with Live's biggest hit, the 1994 classic "Lightning Crashes." 
What separates Live from so many other bands is that they are not afraid to make music that they know won't hit the top spot on the charts. They've already been there with 1994's six-times platinum Throwing Copper. Now, like REM, U2 and Pearl Jam before them, Live has spent some time in an experi­mental stage. 
It's always a conflict when a great band goes exper­imental. Part of you appreciates that they can evolve out of what made them famous, but sometimes you just wish your old friends were back. It takes guts to be at the top and then change direction, especially when everyone else is telling you to keep going straight. Sales may fall off, but at least you have your soul. To Live, that's far more important than money. 
Contact Tom O'Connell at toconnel@nd.edu 

page 14 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, September 19, 2001 
MEN'S INTERHALL GOLD LEAGUE 

Kangaroo defense hops ov~r Manorites 
By MATT FURRIE, KATIE KINNER and ANTHONY BISHOP Sports Writers 
Amidst the wind and rain. Keough's defense was just strong enough to pull off a 7 -0 victory over Morrissey. 
"I thought it was a really good first game," said Keough quarterback Andy Hess. "We executed our base offensive set.s and played extremely well on defense." 
The Kangaroo defense was on top of its game. By the time the game was over, it had picked off two passes, forced two fum­bles and sacked Morrissey quarterback Rick Ysasi three times. 
"Our defensive backs did a good job of keeping their quarterback in check all game long," said Hess. "Brian Adams and James Waechester were especially key with their interceptions." 
The first quarter of the game went by quickly ¥.ith each team's defense control­ling the tempo. But with the start of the second quarter, it began to rain, and with it came the first scoring opportunity. 
Following a Morrissey punt, Keough was set to start from its own 20. Two plays later, halfback Clay Nuelle broke free and trotted up the sideline for a 75-yard touch­down run. 
"The offensive line did a great job," said Nuelle, a freshman. "They blocked off the whole right side and I saw a opening so I took it and ran has hard as I could. Next thing I know I scored." 
The half ended with the Kangaroos up 7 ­0 after each team's defense dominated the rest of the half. 
The second half opened up with a reju­venated Morrissey offensive attack. Freshman halfback, Edward Hernandez Ill, got his first carries and made several impressive runs picking up much needed yardage. 
Despite this new attack, the results were still the same for the Manorites. 
Several well-orchestrated drives ended up in great field position, but none yielded any points. 
Coming into the final minutes of the game Keough was still up seven, but again their defense was being put to the test. 
Morrissey quarterback Ysasi, 5 of 11 passing, had put his inside the 10 after proving to be quite elusive in the pocket. But yet again Keough 's defense rose to the occasion. 
After nearly recovering a fumble inside of the 5 on second down, they came back and sacked Ysa.si on third down. The game ended with Nuelle being pulled down just yards short of the end zone. 
"I thought we played extremely well," said Morrissey coach Andy Baulm. "Unfortunately, they were able to break it open on the one big play and score. We'll do some fine tuning and stay hungry for a win next week." 
Keenan 6, Stanford 0 
An early touchdown may have proved decisive, but in a game plagued by 16 penalties and dominated by the run, it didn't seem to be the score that mattered. 
In Keenan's 6-0 victory against Stanford on Sunday, it was a battle of who hit hard­er, who made fewer mistakes and who wanted it more. 
Keenan scored on its opening drive despite three personal fouls. Freshman 
quarterback Patrick Downey scored  a  
touchdown on a six-yard run.  
Staying focused  was important in  a  

game filled with penalties, according to Keenan captain Brent Morlok. "We did a good job keeping our heads in the game," he said. Griffin penalties led to their defeat, according to Dave Dilworth. 
"I felt like we spotted them six points and started off in a hole and were never able to get our offense going," Dilworth said. 
Neither team was very successful on the offensive side of the ball, as both quarter­backs secured only two completions each. The running game was the focus for both teams. 
Running back Tom Corr shouldered the load for Keenan rushing on 11 carries. 
Stanford's Dan Campion and Mark McNamee had seven carries each, includ­ing key rushes on Stanford's final drive in the fourth quarter. 
Campion also doubled as a defender, grabbing one interception. 
Corner Greg Borchardt also contributed strongly to Stanford's defensive stand, holding Keenan receivers to two catches. 
"Our defense played well, we shut them down," said Dilworth, but the offense never got off its feet. 
Keenan linebacker Tim O'Brien was a key player in stopping Stanford's quarter­back Nick Befera and the option attack of Campion and McNamce. 
O'Brien tallied sacks on both of 
Stanford's second half drives, including 
their !inal attempt at tying the game. 
On Stanford's Iinal drive of the game, Keenan defenders insisted they had knocked the ball loose from the arms of Stanford's Campion on a second and five, but the referee signaled no fumble. 
While subsequent penalties allowed Stanford to continue towards the end zone. Keenan's veterans took charge and ended the drive with a sack by O'Brien and an interception on third and long by Matt Hotze. 
Junior O'Brien and the other veterans 
"did what they had to do to win the game," 
said Morlok. 
Dillon 6, Alumni 0 
In a rebirth of the Alumni and Dillon 
rivalry, neither team wanted to back 
down. It was a heated battle in which the 
Dillon Big Rod finally took control. Scoring 
a touchdown early in the game, Dillon led 
6-0 and never looked back. 
During Alumni's first possession, the Dawgs quickly showed the opposition that they meant business. They gradually marched down the field with quick run­ning. 
However, before they could capitalize off of these runs, an interception ended any threat of a score. He was taken down with 
·a hard hit by offensive lineman Larry Rooney. "The interception really took some wind out of our sails," Rooney said. 
A crowd of cheers and smiles quickly turned into a crowd of grimaces and groans. The fans of Alumni, or the "Dawg Pound" were quieted by Dillon for the rest of the game. 
On the ensuing drive by Dillon, Alumni received a personal foul, giving the Big Red 15 yards and the first down. 
That sparked the offense to march the rest of the way, winding down with a 2­yard run by Jason Visner to score the touchdown. The PAT attempt after the touchdown never made it to the goalposts, keeping the score at 6-0. 
After that, the two defenses tightened up. Both offenses began drives well, show­ing signs of a scoring opportunity, but the defense shut them down, stopping the offenses from getting into a scoring posi-


Neither team could set up a passing attack, as each team's offense could only muster two completions. 
Alumni drove close within scoring range late in the game, but the Dawgs fumbled to end the drive. The fumble and the inter­ception were both in Dillon territory. 
"The interception took away some momentum, and the fumble by [running­back Alex] Roodhouse may have been the final dagger," said Alumni captain Nick Linstroth. "We're just going to move on and prepare for Keough next week." 
Alumni faces Keough at 2 p.m. next Sunday and Dillon faces off against Keenan at 3 p.m. Both games will be at the southern Riehle field. 
Contact Matt Furrie at mfurrie@nd.edu, Katie Kinner at kkinner@nd.edu and Anthony Bishop at abishop l@nd.edu. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR RENT WANTED 

HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM-STUDENT WORK PUS $14.50 Base-appt. mmmrentals.com email: mmmrentals@aol.com Vector Mid. is filling PT cust 
svc./sales positions (5-20hrs) THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Flex. around classes. Scholarships. Breakfast Inn has space available Cond. apply for football/parent wknds. 5 rooms www.workforstudents.com/np call with private baths, $80-$115, MW 12-5pm 282-2357 Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road Exit #107 1-800-418-Seeking reliable, experienced 9487 babysitter for 3 month old girl. 
Weekday afternoons, 5 mn. from 
TICKETS 
Help! Need 8 West Virginia tickets for family coming to the game! Please call Kerry at 243-0928. 
OBSERVER DRIVER NEEDS TWO GA'S TO ANY GAME CALL JACK 674-6593 
••Have: 4 WVU and 4 Navy !ix. Need: ND-BC tix and/or cash Call Bob at 219-315-8964 Need 2-3 A&M vs ND tix. Call Pat 277-2243. 
PERSONAL 
SPRING BREAK Largest selection of Spring Break Destinations, including Cruises! Rep Positions, Free Drinks and Free trips available. www. EpicuRRean.com 1-800-231-4-FUN 
Spring Break Insanity! WWW lt-iIEB·C~MeUS QQM or 
A case study in celebrities. 
Britney spears may be the greatest entertainer of the twentieth century. She combines vocal talent, natural beauty and a positive attitude. 
Britney may be the greatest influ­ence on our youth this century. 
01 course, the century is only about 21 months old. 
Moral court is on right now. Britney would never end up there. 
Her biggest crime is singing "Oops I 

The world may be small, but with Brandon, Brenda, Jim and Cindy all the Walshes stand tall. 
Did anybody enjoy watching the maturation of Steve Sanders as the shows went on? I found his growth as a man to parallel! the growth of our nation. God bless Steve Sanders. GO 902101!1 
HA HA HA. I'm not telling you where it is. I win. YOU LOSE!I 

Apparently, I have relatives from the same towns as professors. 
HOUSE FOR RENT: 1)9-br ND. Call Jame at 288-1801. BUY-SELL ND FOOTBALL call 1-800-327-6013 did it again" one more time while It's a small world after all. $2400/month. 2) 5-br $1500/month. TICKETS 277-6619 Guaranteed lowest prices! All desti-getting stronger 
3) 4-br $1000/month. Call Bill at nations! Fifteen years experience! Last but not least. A word for the 532-1896. NO FOOTBALL TIX WANTED Wanted: Representatives and orga-Four days until the bus leaves for perfect one. Love you Jennifer.
FOR SALE 

nizatoins, earn top $$$, build your Houston. WOO HOOi Turtle Creek Apt Opening Northsore Condo, 1428 Marigold AM.· 232-2378 resume I want to go to Disney 1 Br $655 276-4809 way near ND, 1 bdr, 1 bath, LR, DR P M. -288-2726 Malla the Evil Elf. I LOVE YOU... 
& kitchen with appliances. 1 car Erin -good luck driving! Glad I'm -Jen Anybody want some good food. For rent: remodeled 4-bdrm house. garage. $69,000. not there to see Ill Come to my restaurant 3 blks. from ND. Garage avail. 234-Call Doris at 254-1772 ..ND tickets for sale. Lowest prices. GO BIG MAGIii 2104 232·0964. Hey junior managers! Guess what Only three more hours of home­
52055 Old PQSI Lane ... you guys still rock. Best of luck Want to have fun on the Internet. work, then three hours of sleep. ROOM FOR RENT Spacious 4 bdrm, 2-story on private ..WANTED· ND TICKETS this year and keep in touch, Kronk. Send an IM to SmarterChild. Then I start this fun game over ND GAMES $250 WEEKEND. lane in Farmington Square. 2373 289-9280 again. CONT. BAKFST. SF + professionally finished base-Kelly, 1-800-FLOWERS, your heart 90210 is the best program ever to CALL 'Z72--0877 ment. Call Jack at 280-7730. Wanted: ND VS BC tickets. Please can be expressed fully. hit the airwaves. The Observer makes people yearn 
Century 21 Jim Dunfee Realty. call 4-1157 AND YOU GET FREQUENT for life aiter college. Work 60 hours B&ll FLYER MILES. That's right. it's th.at wierd kIa doing a week, and still get more sleep. 2-3 ROOMS HOME GAMES '88 GMC SLE pickup truck Looks Buying some/ Selling a few extra classifieds agiilin. 2 Ml NO OF CAMPUS good, runs great. Call Mark at 273-N.D. Football Tickets. Observer Personals, the best place Television is ending, the night is 247-1124 0449. 219-289-8048. to find your lilemate. It's a small world after all. coming to a close. Adiu, readers. 

Tuesday, September 25, 2001 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Center for Social Concerns
csc __,,__
t·{ttp ://centerforsocialconcerns. nd .edu 631-5293
C E N T E R F O R 
I • • • • • • 

SOCIAL • 
CONCERNS 
Post-eraduate service Fair 

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26 6:00-9:00 P.M.@ STEPAN CENTER 
A 
Come to meet representatives from more than 80 programs, such as Holy Cross Associates, ACE, Jesuit Volunteer Corps and Americorps. There are service opportunities available with international, domestic, faith-based and non-church related programs. 

: A 12• grade student at Clay High School is in need of a tutor to assist her with Algebra-lligonometry. Flexible schedule. 
,,,~r) South Bend Community School Corporation Adult Education Program -Gayle Silver -231-5690-< ., ' Volunteers needed to tutor adults in basic ski1ls/GED preparation/ESL classes. Morning, afternoon and evening classes are available .--. \:.':. __~ ; at a variety of locations, including the Robinson Community Learning Center. Transportation needed for most sites. Initial short
--•_c.._:_·_•_•-._
N

· I:-·-_ ; training session is required. Supervision is always provided in the classroom. ' ~ 
' Youth Outreach Ministries -Marcella Jones Preston -288-6809 : Youth Outreach Ministries is an after school program held Mon.-Wed. from 3-6 p.m. Volunteers needed to help with homework, in computer lab, and to mentor children while assisting in developing their self-esteem. Volunteers needed 1-2 hrs. each afternoon. 
Special Needs 


·_.·_··-:·'•_~
+•,~ 
. ~-· Special Needs Author Needs Assistance -287-3891 -515 East Monroe Apt. 612 (Karl King Towers) 
• _: Rozanne has Carpal Tunnel Syndrome and needs a co-writer to help write her book by contributing ideas and typing for her. Rozanne 
p 
Current Volunteer Needs Tutorin2 
South Bend Housing Authority Youth 
Study Centers -Lisa -286-7683 or 235-7616 
Volunteers needed f~r two on-going study , centers, near LaSalle RS. and on Monroe . Circle, M & W, 4:00-5:30. 

, Madison Center -Juvenile Justice Center '. Tony Castellino -235-5457 '. Looking for tutors/mentors to serve as role 
,,:t;,.\~~}··; modes & help with Math & English from 
it~; ~;;;e;;;:;~;~r~:;O~~
.@1 
·

_N,_--:,._, 
·. , ·~--~_•­
• i 

'· questions for academic pursuit; professors who can provide bibliography, 
direct students to relevant courses, help them design research projects; teachers 
... who will guide our students in thinking carefully about the issues. If you have 
, interest in working with these students in these or other ways, please contact 
Mary Beckman at the CSC . 
B.;:·u·d<.:lr

iM1X1xf~ Border Issues Seminar Applications are now available at the CSC r 
Center for Social Concerns Vehicle Training Sessions: All seminar dtivers must'take a vehicle info session in order to drive for their seminar trip. Dates: 9/27, 9/30, 10/10 (6:00 p.m., Rm. 124 CSC). No registration required. Bring pen and drivers' license. In Addition: All drivers will need to attend a 2nd meeting, I0/19 at 4: 15 at the CSC. 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, September 25, 2001 
NFL 
Bledsoe still in hospital after violent tackle 
JAPANESE BASEBALL 
Rhodes sets season home run record 
As,cx;iated Press 
TOKYO 

It took 37 years and a fastball over the middle of the plate for an American to finally equal Japan's single-season home run record. 
Former major-league outfield­er Tuffy Rhodes hit a solo shot into the right field stands at Osaka Dome on Monday for his 55th homer of the season, tying the single season mark set by the legendary Sadaharu Oh way back in 1964. 
After rounding the bases, Rhodes bowed his head and tipped his cap to the roaring crowd of 48,000. Some fans waved placards depicting Rhodes in his black and orange Kinetetsu Buffaloes uniform. 
Few thought that a foreign player would ever be allowed to break Ob's hallowed record. 
Even though he's of Taiwanese ancestry. Oh is revered in Japan. He helped lead the nation's most popular team. the Yomiuri Giants. to nine straight Japan Series titles between 1965 and 1973 and finished his career with 868 homers over 22 sea­sons. 
The last time a foreign player came dose to breaking Oh's record was in 1985 when Randy Bass of the Hanshin Tigers hit 
54. Bass' last two games of the season were against the Giants, who were managed by Oh at the time. 
Not surprisingly, he was walked six times in nine at-bats. At one point, Bass stood at the plate with his bat held upside down in protest of what many considered to be a conspiracy among teams to keep an American from breaking Ob's record. 
But Japanese baseball has come a long way since then. The success of players like Ichiro Suzuki, Hideo Nomo and Kazuhiro Sasaki in the major leagues has given Japanese players the confidence to go head-to-head with Americans like Rhodes. 
Hard-throwing Daisuke Matsuzaka -who at 22 wasn't even born yet when Oh hit his record-breaking homer -gave up Monday's home run to Rhodes in Kintetsu's 7-6 victory over the Seibu Lions. Matsuzaka is considered talented enough to possibly join other Japanese in the majors one day. 
With five games remaining in the season, the odds of breaking the record appear to be in Rhodes' favor and Oh, who now manages the Pacific League's Daiei Hawks, has repeatedly said it's time for someone to take his place in the record books. 
For a while, it looked like Rhodes would suffer the same fate as Bass. Rhodes hit his 54th homer on Sept. 13 and then went almost two weeks without hitting another home run. 
"I put a lot of pressure on myself over the past six games, but I finally got one," said Rhodes, a 33-year-old native of Cincinnati. 
The Buffaloes sit in first place in the Pacific League standings, 3 V2 games ahead of the Lions and are bidding for their first pennant since 1989. Coincidentally, they will play their last two games of the sea­son on Sept. 30 and Oct.1 against Oh and his defending champion Hawks at Fukuoka Dome. 
Playing in his sixth season with the Buffaloes. Rhodes is the elder statesman among Japan's foreign players. Before this sea­son, his best year was 1999, when he hit 40 homers. 
back would miss. "My guess is to score a touchdown to tie or go that he would not play for at ahead. least a couple of weeks," he Brady was 5-for-10 for 46 said. yards and brought New England 
Bledsoe, who has missed just to the New York 29 before he six of 130 games in nine years in threw four incompletions to end the NFL, was hurt on third-and-the game. 10 from his 19 with about five Brady, who leapfrogged over minutes left. He ran around the more experienced Damon right end for an 8-yard gain Huard in training camp to be the before being hit hard by Lewis No. 2 quarterback, will start in front of the Patriots' bench. Sunday against the Indianapolis 
Bledsoe stayed on the ground Colts. for about two minutes. He came He was drafted in the sixth back out for the next possession, round of the 2000 draft out of but Tom Brady played the final Michigan. I-le threw three passes series, with the Patriots needing last season, completing one. 

Associated Press 
FOXBORO, Mass. 

Drew Bledsoe spent his second day in the hospital Monday and was expected to miss at least two games because of internal bleeding in his chest following a tackle. 
The New England Patriots' quarterback was in stable condi­tion after being taken to Massachusetts General Hospital on Sunday night. Doctors used a chest tube to alleviate the bleed­ing. 
Bledsoe was knocked out of the game by Jets linebacker Mo Lewis in the fourth quarter of New York's 10-3 win. 
"He got hit hard, he was on the ground, he was dazed. He certainly could not have stood back up and gone back in the game," coach Bill 

Bledsoe

Belichick said. 
Belichick said he didn't know how many games the quarter-
Robinson Community Learning Center 
Are you looking for a place to volunteer this semested Do you want to work with kids? Well we have the perfect job for you!! The Robinson Community Learning Center needs tutors for our Tues­day/Thursday tutoring program. No prior experience necessary. 

"I don't think we 're talking about John Elway here, but I don't know how many of those there are. He's got a good NFL arm," Belichick said. "I really don't think I'm going to be standing here week after week talking about the problems that Tom Brady had. I have confi­dence in him." 
Bledsoe completed 18 of 28 passes for 159 yards with two interceptions and a sack. 
The loss dropped the Patriots to 0-2. They've scored a total of 20 points, and next Sunday face the potent Colts in Foxboro. 
Tuesdays and Thursdays 3:30pm-4:30pm 

At 631-9427 or amechenb@nd.edu 921 North Eddy lu"t South Btnd, IN 466 I 7 
No car? Don't worry! We are on the ND/SMC Shuttle route!!! 
1( 
ROBINSON. COMMUNITY 
LEAPNING 
CENTER 


Look.i:ng .for off campus housing that: is close and convenient:? 
TURTLE CREEI-C APART~ENTS 
NOW LEASING FOR 2002-2003 
SCIIC>OL TER.l'VI! 

Special ~•student: 10•• Lease available 
• l'Vlini Blinds Included • Balcony/Patio •Spacious Walk-in Closets •C>n-site Laundry Facilities •Central heat/Air •Swimming pool •Sand Volleyba.11 
Turtle Creek Apartments P: 272-8124 F: 272-8204 
.:rust East: ofthe Notre Dame Soccer Field! Walking distance from Campus 
STOP DY A.ND PIC:IC UP YOUR APPLICATIC>N TODAY! 


··--·----------­

Tuesday, September 25, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
SMC SOCCER 
Belles look to overcome weather, Scots_ at home 

CORBY NIGHT 

for men considering the seminary and religious life 
Join the Holy Cross Community for prayer, pizza, informal discussion 
Tuesday, Sept. 25, 9:00 10: 15 at Corby Hall 
ff~ 
" 

By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Belles will play come rain or shine. For the fifth consecutive home game, the Saint Mary's soc­cer team has to play under ques­tionable. weather, but this time they're ready. 
"We 're comfortable with our field." junior captain I-leather Muth said. "It's no help that we've had rain every time we've had a home game, but I think we're starting to get the hang of it and starting to be able to overcome it." 
The Belles will take on the Scots of Alma in a match that promises to be a fight to the finish, even if the predicted rain makes an appearance. The Scots have faced a similar MlAA schedule as the Belles, with similar results. They come into today's match 0-4 in the MIAA, just behind the Belles who are 0-3 in the conference. 
"I think [Alma] is a little under­estimated in our conference," Johnston said. "It's going to be a tough battle. They're playing real­ly tough right now." 
The past four home games the Belles have hosted have been marked by cold rain. The first three games against Hope, Calvin and Kalamazoo resulted in Saint Mary's losses, but the most recent game had different results. 
Saint Mary's claimed its first win of the season, a 4-3 home vic­tory against Rose-Hulman on Sunday. 
Strong Saint Mary's play con­nected for four goals, but all three times Rose-Ilulman scored, the ball found its way to the net because of Saint Mary's errors that were compounded by the weather. 
"I think some of our mi.-6takes [Sunday! came because we mis­judged because of the weather," Lynn Taylor said. 
Today they arc looking to stop those errors. 
"Keys to winning are minimizing mistakes and ball possession, [both of which are] playing to our strengths," Johnston said. 
In addition to minimizing their mistakes. the Belles are hoping home field advantage helps with the win. 
"That's a strength of ours [that] we're going to capitalize on and run them all over the field," Muth said. 
Alma plays physical soccer, a kind of game the young Saint Mary's team has been working to improve on all season. The Belles' MIAA opener against a physical Hope team was a surprise to many of the first-year players, but Johnston believes his team is ready for physical play. 
"They're fairly physical," he said. "We're used to that now. A lot of our freshmen are accus­tomed to the style of college play." 
Action gets under way today at 4 
p.m. on the Saint Mary's soccer fields. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 
for more info contact: Fr. Bill Wack, CSC wack.2@nd.edu 
www.nd.edu/.-vocation 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, September 25, 2001 
Holiday 
continued from page 24 
at the media attention surround­ing Notre Dame's newest starting quarterback. 
But Notre Dame's offensive woes arc no laughing matter for Davie. He spent a sleepless Saturday night watching game film of Notre Dame's 17-10 loss to Michigan State. And after studying that film for hour after hour, he and the rest of the Irish coaches. believed it was time for Holiday to have a chance to con­trol the Irish offense. 
"There's a lot more pressure, but that's what I've come here for," Holiday said. "I like pres• sure. I like competing and hope­fully I can get some points on the board." 
In Notre Dame's two losses, the Irish have only managed to score two touchdowns. Each touch­down was set up not by pro­longed offensive drives, but by solid special teams play. Against Nebraska, Shane Walton's blocked punt gave the Irish the ball on the Husker four-yard line. And against Michigan State, Julius Jones returned a punt 56 yards to the Spartan six-yard line. 
"The bottom line -and it is a bottom line -is we're just not scoring enough points," Davie said. "l thought Matt Lovecchio played good at times Saturday. In some ways, it may not be the most fair thing, but the bottom line is we're not scoring enough points." 
Offensive coordinator Kevin Rogers broke the news to Lovecchio and Holiday just before Monday's practice. The coaches didn't tell the team until after practice. 
"Like anything else, the quar­terback gets too much blame and too much credit," Rogers said. "[Matt's] fi.rst comment to me was, 'Coach we're not scoring points, something has to be done."' 
"It's the coaches' decision," LoVecchio said. 'Tm just going to go with it and work as hard as I can to do what I have to do to help this team and get better ... I think the responsibility of being the quarterback at Notre Dame, you've got to move the ball down the field and you've got to score points. We didn't do that Saturday and that's the bottom 
lin ,.
e. The Irish feel more confident starting Holiday now as opposed to the beginning of the season because he has some game expe­rience. While he only played two series against Michigan State, Holiday played several series against Nebraska, leading Notre Dame on a 64-yard game -its longest of the game -that cul­minated in a Nick Setta field goal. 

But Holiday was promoted because Notre Dame hasn't made any big offensive plays. Notre Dame's longest passing play was a 19-yard completion to David Givens in the·season open­er. while Tony Fisher's 35-yard run against the Huskers is still Notre Dame's longest play from scrimmage. 
And against Michigan State, Rogers was conservative in his play calling the Irish attempted only one pass over 20 yards and rushed on first down 15 of 18 times. 
"It's our whole mentality right now," Rogers said after Saturday's loss. "I just think we're a little fragile right now as far as [the passing game] is con­cerned. I just think there's a lack ·of confidence until you start hav­ing some success ... You try to take care of the football, you try to run the ball, you try to keep the defense out of bad situations and all of a sudden, you're in a shell and you're not a very excit­ing offense." 
"We've got to try to get some more explosions, some more big plays," said Davie. "We need to take the next step, and hopefully this will work." 
The Irish hope Holiday can add that excitement. While Rogers said the offense will not have to make many changes, he did say that Holiday would probably be the only quarterback to play Saturday. 
Both Davie and Rogers stressed that Lovecchio still has the possi­bility to earn his starting job back. And while Davie said Jared Clark is still in the quarterback mix, Rogers was a little more blunt about what it would take to see Clark in the game. 
"Hopefully, we're ahead by a lot of points," he said. 
But for now, the spotlight is on Holiday, not the other two quar­terbacks. He took his turn on the sideline last year while LoVecchio ran the offense and he watched from afar as Lovecchio answered the media's questions. Now, it's his turn. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 
PAINTBALL 
NOTRE DAME YOU HA VE BEEN CHALLENGED!!!! 
PURDUE UNIVERSITY is bringing a group to Action Park Paintball in Mishawaka on Sunday September 30 and has officially challenged any ND students to come out and play against them, special discounted rates! 
Special discount rates for this outing have been given by the field, call 219-674-GAME for more details and to reserve your spot. Action Park is located minutes from campus, for a map go to actionparkpaintball .com 
The fun and registration starts at 11:00, call now for more details and save your spot in the action!!!! 
• 
Largest outdoor field in area, 23 + wooded acres. 

• 
Multiple fields .... can you defend the castle? 

• 
We provide all rental equipment needed! 


MEN'S SOCCER 

Irish to take on Braves 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Spores Writer 
The men's soccer team heads to Peoria, Ill., tonight for a_con­test with No. 22 Bradley (4-2-1). 
After dropping a 3-0 loss to Rutgers Saturday, the Irish will be looking to get back into the win column before picking up with Big East play again this weekend. 
"It's always tough [to lose]. especially because we're a young team," co-captain Greg Martin said. "But our heads are up right now. We've got a big game against Bradley, and then this weekend we get back to Big East competition, so we're defi­nitely ready to go and things will be line." 
Notre Dame better be ready to go again, as Bradley brings a very talented team to the lield. The Braves return seven starters from a 2000 squad that went 15-7-2 and earned the program's first NCAA tourna­ment bid. They have a very high-powered offense led by a pair uf All-American forwards, Gavin Clinton and Hamid MehreioskoucL The duo com­bined for 26 goals and 24 assists last season, ranking them third in the nation as a returning scoring duo. 
"We're going to have to be very disciplined because they are a very good team," head coach Bobby Clark said, "They're a very blue-collar team in that they are very hard work­ing, so we are going to have to work just as hard to win." 
The Irish defense should be well prepared for the Bradley offense, having already faced some of the nation's most potent attacks in the likes of Furman and Clemson. 
If there were one area the Irish would want to exploit, it would be the Braves' inexperi­ence at the goalkeeper position. Bradley lost .its three-year starter at the end of last season, and the most experienced returnee is fifth-year senior Nate Adams. who has only nine career appearances. 

This could benefit Notre Dame's leading scorer, forward Erich Braun, who is very aggressive at taking scoring opportunities when he gets the ball. Braun has taken 17 shots on goal in the team's first five games. 
In the only other match-up between these two teams, the Braves came into South Bend last season and handed the Irish a 3-1 loss on the strength of two goals from Glinton, Bradley is expecting its largest soccer crowd ever in anticipation of tonight's rematch. 
"This is what it's all about ­going on the road during the season against the good teams and getting results," Clark said. "It would be a tremendous step forward for the program if we could get a result out of this." 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu. 



Tuesday, September 25, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
Soccer 
continued from page 24 
Notre Dame has given up several goals as a result of defensive lapses rather than by strong play by opponents. 
The Irish will have to con­tain Husker forwards Meghan Anderson and Christine Latham, who have combined for 21 points this season, including eight goals. 
. 
LectJ'i-e Series 

. 
Other Events 


who was "especially vital in 
[Sunday's} tie against Walsh," 
said Murray. 
Both offenses are under the command of new quarter­backs. For Lewis, it's sopho­more Erin Nasrallah. 
"Erin really improved her
B&C 
1 
arm strength in the off-sea­son," said Murray. "She can throw the short screens and the longer passes that we need." 
Megan Sheehan, a Farley senior, will lead her team onto the field Tuesday to run a new offense designed by Cordes. 

springboard to 
opportunity 
The new scheme is designed to give Farley a more struc­tured attack. 
Off-Campus vs. Cavanaugh
Bain & Company cordially 
The Crime and Chaos clash 
invites all upperclassmen to 
tonight with very different 2001 season scenarios.
join us tor our Fall 
Off-Campus has struggled
Presentation followed by a 
early this season, losing its 
Case Interview Workshop on 
first two games, while Cavanaugh has already
Tuesday, October 2nd at 6 pm 
equaled last season's loss total 
at the Morris Inn. 
by splitting their first two games. But it seems both teams understand the causes of their early season strug­gles. 
"We don't practice our plays at all," said senior Off-Campus 
Please apply online at 
www.bain.com 
quarterback Abbey Ross. "We've had a good time but we just don't practice." 
In fact, the Crime may not 

Atlanta • Beijing • Boston • Brussels • Chicago • Dallas • Hong Kong • Johannesburg • London • Los Angeles • Madrid • Mexico City Milan • Munich • New York • Paris • Rome • San Francisco , Silo Paulo • Seoul • Singapore • Stockholm• Sydney • Tokyo • Toronto • Zurich 
More importantly, the Irish need to come out of the gate playing their best soccer ­Nebraska has scored 13 of their 17 goals this season in the first half. 
Waldrum might have a trick or two up his sleeve for the Irish defense. 
"We might be playing a dif­ferent formation," said Sarkesian. "He's talked about a couple different things." 
Still, the Irish are one of the nation's consistently elite teams, comprised of athletes 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL BLUE LEAGUE
that know how to prepare physically and, more impor­tantly, mentally, for impor­tant games. 
Finest, Chickens 
"I think we're ready [men­tally] for Nebraska," said Sarkesian. "That's the one thing we have always done in 
battle tonight
my four years here, we pre­
pare for big games."  
Contact JeffBaltruzak at jbaltrul@nd.edu.  By PHILIP KOESTERER, JOE HETTLER and DAVE COOK Spom Writers  

Farley a·nd Lewis have something in common: they both fell prey to Walsh's tough defense in two tied games during the past two weeks. Tonight, they'll each be look• ing for more offensive produc­tion when they square off against each other on West Riehle Field at 8 p.m. 
"Our offense had some tro11­ble getting together in the first half,· and once we got it together in the second half, we couldn't convert," said Lewis free safety and team captain Caitlin Murray. "We have a good group of experi­enced receivers who can be lethal if we get on the same page." 
If the Lewis offense does plan to convert tonight, it will have to go through a Farley defense that intercepted Walsh Hall four times two weeks ago. 
That defense, coached by Alumni residents Irish Thompson and Chris Cordes, includes freshman comerback Heather Kimmins, who con­tributed two of the intercep­tions. 
'Tm hoping our defense will keep up what we've been doing and get the offense jump-started," said Kimmins. 
That Farley offense nearly put the baJl in the endzone, but the touchdown was called back, according to Farley cap­tain Beth McKay. 
Trying to prevent touch­downs of any kind will be Lewis' defense, led by line­backers Kara Helmig, Becky Camillus, and Becky Ward, even be able to field a team for the game. 

"I don't know if we're even playing at this point because a couple people can't make it," said Ross. 
On the other side of the ball, the Chaos feels optimistic about lhe rest of their season. 
"I think that we're looking pretty good," said co-captain and quarterback Mandy Reimer. "I think we've made a lot of progress since the first practice." 
Cavanaugh also has another strategy that the players believe will lead the team tovictory. 
"The key to beating Off­Campus is to dress warmly, wear receiver gloves and pray it doesn't rain," said Reimer. "And if it does rain, we're all going to wear cleats." 
Cleats or no cleats, Off­Campus isn't taking this game too seriously. 
"[This season'sJ been a lot of fun so far," said Ross. "We all get to play the whole game." 
McGlinn vs. Walsh 

For McGlinn, The Wild Women of Walsh will not be their only opponent this Tuesday on Reihle Field. The Shamrocks will have to battle their own inexperience in game situations. 
Going into Tuesday's game, McGlinn will only have played one game, a loss to Cavanaugh, while Walsh will have three games under its belt. 
"We've had a scheduling disadvantage this year," said McGlinn co-captain Christa Gray. "Our chemistry is good, but our nerves in game situa­tions has hurt us a little." 
Despite the perceived disad­vantage, the Shamrocks think they are ready for the game. 
"Our coaches have scouted 
[the Walsh] games, and we've 
had a chance to practice 
against their offenses and 
defenses," said Gray. 

McGlinn has been able to 
get in several practices this 
past week. They will also 
bring good communication 
and determination to the grid­
iron Tuesday night. 

On the other side of the ball, Walsh hopes to garner its sec­ond win with stalwart defense. 
"Our defense held Lewis 
scoreless, and we won against 
one of the best offenses in the 
league [Howard]," said Walsh 
co-captain Alison Troy. 

Walsh quarterback and co­captain Lauren Walsh and freshman wide , receiver Carrie Campbell will be head­ing the offense for the Wild Women. 
"Our offense is starting to click well. We've had quite a bit of improvement and we hope to carry the momentum into our next game," said Campbell. 
Contact Philip Koesterer at pkoesterer@ncl.edu, Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu and Dave Cook at dcook2@nd.edu. 

Monday, September 24, 2001 The O/;server . SPORTS page 20 
Christian Braunlich, the Wave Chappell took a hand off and rolled to a 24-8 victory a,gainst scampered 25 yards down the
O'Neill 

the Juggs in the season opener field to the 10-yard line on continued from page 24 for both teams. Fisher's second drive. Three "For the first time since I've plays later, Chappell finished 
O'Neill's ball control offense started paying here, we actually the drive himself, scoring from allowed them to keep the ball executed as a team," said co­six yards out. for most of the second half. captain Ray Aftandilians. Knott threw an interception Montgomery, running back Fisher's offense effectively on the next drive, giving the Nate Schomas and fullback Jay moved the ball throughout the Wave good field position. A few McAllister ran the option very day by mixing up the run and plays later, Fisher tried a trick well but, the St. Ed's defense pass. The ground game was led play by pitching the ball to the kept them out of the endzone. by Chappell who rushed 10 tailback, who then heaved a 
"In the second half, we had a times, four of which gained first pass towards Chappell. lot of positives on defense. We downs. He also added a touch­Chappell jumped for the ball, stepped up our effort from the down and a two-point conver­tipping it into the air. Braunlich first half," Sciola said. sion. raced for the ball and grabbed 
The O'Neill defense was up to ''I feel the line blocked great it, securing the fluke touch­the task as well. It limited St. and they opened up the holes down. Ed's offense to two second half really big for me all day," said Fisher also added an insur­first downs. Chappell. ance score in the fourth quar­
"When it counted, the defense Braunlich also had a big ter, providing the final margin was there in the end," said impact on o!Tense, catching four of victory for the Wave. Creppel. "They put pressure on passes, including a 30-yard the quarterback." touchdown and two two-point Siegfried 6, Zahm 0 
Both teams look to improve conversions. The touchdown Last week, Zahm senior co­on this week's effort for their came off of a tipped pass that captain Gabe Ibanez said that next game. landed right into Braunlich's execution was the key to victory 
"We need to build on the posi­hands. making the score 16-8. against Siegfried in this week­said Ibanez. to the victory.
tives and work on areas of con­After that, Fisher never end's season opener. 
Zahm did have one scoring "I thought that our defense
cerns," said Sciola. "We are looked back. Unfortunatelv for lbanez. he opportunity during the fourth played very well throughout thelooking forward to a couple Knott's defense, which was exactly right, as Siegfried quarter. The Rabid Bats' game," said Plumby.
weeks of practice to get ready allowed only one touchdown all topped Zahm, 6-0. 
offense moved the ball down While the Ramblers did playfor Fisher." of last season, struggled In a game where both offens­
inside the Ramblers 30-yard well, Plumby knows that they
"We are very happy to get this throughout much of the game es struggled to score for most of line. still have areas that need work.
win, but [we] have to perfect and had trouble stopping the the afternoon, Siegfried set up 
Quarterback Dan Burke "I thought we made a lot of
other wrinkles in our offense," Fisher running attack. the game's only touchdown. 
dropped back to pass, got little mistakes that cost us,"
said Enterline. "We're looking "We lost a lot of guys on when quarterback and co-cap­
11ushed out of the pocket and said Plumby. "We need to workforward to next week and we defense, so we've got some new tain Rob Plumby perfectly exe­fired a pass downfield, but those out." 
don't plan on stopping at one faces in there," said Knott co­cuted a 30-yard pass to receiver Auguer stepped in front of the Ibanez, on the other hand,win." captain, Brian Schmutzler. Pete Auguer on third and 12. 
receiver and snatched the ball feels his team can. still have a
"Obviously, in the past our On the next play. tailback for an interception, which all successful season, despite this
Fisher 24, Knott 8 defense has been great, and Travis Smith scored from three 
but secured the Siegfried win. early setback.

In the last two years, Fisher today we didn't show anything." yards out, giving Siegfried the 
"I thought we played great "It's only the first game and
Hail has been unable to score a Meanwhile the Juggs offense 6-0 lead. 
overall, especially our sec­we just need to work on better
point against Knott Hall, let continually struggled, turning Zahm could not answer 
ondary coming up with three exection for the rest of the sea­alone win the game. the ball over four times. Siegfried's score, due to an inef­picks," said Plumby. son," Ibanez said.
Sunday, the Wave got its 'Td say what characterized fective offense and four 
While Siegfried's offense

revenge. our overall play today was total turnovers, including three inter­
managed to get one score, it

Using a balanced offensive lack of execution," said ceptions and a lost fumble. Contact Matt Lozar at 
was clearly their defense that

attack, led by tailback Kameron Schmutzler. "Offensively we need to exe­mlozar@nd.edu and Joe Hettler 
made the biggest contribution

Chappell and tight end The scoring began when cute our plays better overall," at jhettler@nd.edu. 

"Because we call Notre Dame a family ... " 
The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs offers some opportunities to stand in solidarity with gay, lesbian, and bisexual members of our Notre 
Dame community. 
Featured Speaker: 

Mrs. Judy Shepard 
Thursday, September 27, 2001 
7:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Admission is FREE Reception with Mrs. Shepard following the presentation 
Mrs. Shepard's story: 

In October 1998, Judy Shepard lost her twenty-one year old son, Matthew, to a murder inspired by 
anti-gay hate. Her ordeal moved thousands ofpeople across America to attend vigils and rallies in 
Matthew's honor. 

Determined to prevent their son's fate from befalling other people, Judy and her husband, Dennis, 
established the Matthew Shepard Foundation to help carry on Matthew's legacy by embracing the just 
causes he had championed. This includes working for gay and lesbian equality and helping to prevent 
hate crimes. 

Judy is determined to use her grief over her son's death to make a difference. She is now speaking to audiences 
nationwide about what they can do to make their schools and communities safer for everyone, regardless oftheir 
race, sex, religion, or sexual orientation. 

September 30, 2001, is SOLIDARITY SUNDAY. 
"Notre Dame, our Mother, in sharing your name. we claim that we are family "Solidarity Sunday invites the Notre Dame community to pray and grow as one family. On this Sunday, we recognize the value ofour community's gay, lesbian, and bisexual members. All Masses on campus will express the commitment of Notre Dame to stand with Christ, in community, with all her brothers and sisters. Prayer cards and rainbow ribbons will be distributed at all Masses to serve as symbols for the Notre Dame community to display their commitment to stand together and make Notre Dame a place for all people to grow in faith, hope, and love. 
_ Thursday, October 11, 2001, is National COMING OUT Day. 
On the occasion of National Coming Out Day, October 11, 200I, we the Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs join Notre Drune's gay, lesbian, and bisexual students in gratitude for the love and support they have received from family and friends. We urge all members ofour community to redouble all efforts to make our campus a safe and welcoming place free from harassment ofany kind. 


Tuesday, September 24, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL BLUE LEAGUE 
Veselik, Ducks stamp out Crime 
By AARON RONSHEIM and MATT DeNICOLA 
Sports Writers 
On a rain-drenched Sunday afternoon at McGlinn Fields, the Howard Ducks defeated Off­Campus Crime 18-0 Sunday. 
Judging by the team's success in inclement weather Sunday, the Ducks didn't mind the rain at all. 
"We were definitely in our ele­ment," said Howard junior Jenna Spanbauer. 
Howard evened its record at 1­1 while Off-Campus dropped to 0-2 on the year. 
One of the keys to Howard's win was the play of Jill Veselik who returned to the Ducks roster this year despite moving off cam­pus. 
Veselik completed 7-15 passes with two touchdowns. She also had one rushing touchdown and added one reception. 
"I am really happy with the way we played," Veselik said. "The coaches did a groatjob play calling today." 
"She is definitely our leader," running back Katie Crawly said. "She sees the field so well and keeps the defense off-balanced. We are so glad she came back for one more year." 
After a slow start, the Howard offense began to click. On its third possession Veselik hit Crawly on a swing pass. Crawly turned a five-yard pass into a 50­yard touchdown as she sprinted down the sideline past Off­Campus defenders for 6-0 lead. Howard failed on the one-point conversion. 
The Ducks opened the second half with an impressive four-play scoring drive. 
The drive was capped by an impressive 30-yard scramble by Veselik. After being surrounded by Off-Campus defenders she escaped down the right sideline then cut all the way across the field to evade defenders as she sprinted into the end zone just inside the left pile-on. 
''It was amazing." Crawly said. "She does everything for us." 
Howard added another touch­down on a 15-yard pass from Veselik to freshman Megan O'Keefe. 
Veselik overshadowed a great performance by the Ducks' defense. The Ducks' defense didn't even let Off-Campus cross into its territory, and Off-Campus quarterback Abby Ross was 3-11 with tv.·o interceptions. 
"With the way our defense played it makes my job look easi­er," said Howard defensive coor­dinator Chris McBride. 
Lewis 0, Walsh 0 

The defenses can rest now and the offenses can get to work. 
Forty minutes went by in Sunday's game between Lewis and Walsh, which ended in a 0-0 tie. There were two halves, four quarters and countless unsuc­cessful drives toward the end zone. But in the end, the score­board did not change. 
Coming into the game, neither team knew what to expect from the other. 
"They played a different offen­sive set than we had ever seen," said Lewis captain Caitlin Murry. "It took just short of a full set to get used to it." 
The story was the same with the Wild Women. 
"The defense really stepped up," said Captain Alison Troy. "It really was a battle." 
In the beginning of the game, the Walsh offense came out fir-
C ~ N T f I f G '1 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Talk It Out... 
Walk It Out... 
Wait 
Out... 
TAKE TEN 
8 
ing, and the intensity did not let up. In the second half, the Wild Women drove the ball right to the goal line, threatening to score. With four downs to score, Walsh looked certain to put points on the board. However, Lewis' goal line defense prevent­ed the score. 
"We really put up a fight on that goal line stand," said Murry. "That was really key." 
Lewis played tough third down defense. On one drive. the Lewis freshman inside linebacker made a huge stop on third and short, which forced the fourth down. 
"I think that was the turning point," Mun-y said. "It seemed to spark our defense and discour­age their offense." 
Despite the innumerable stops the Chicks made, they were unable to score. The execution from Lewis was off throughout the game. 
"When the quarterbacks were on, the receivers were off, and vice-versa," said Murry. "It was just that kind of day." 
But, credit the faltering offense to the Walsh defense. The cor­nerbacks stayed tight with the receivers, the rushers put con­stant pressure on the quarter­back, and the linemen rarely let a rush slip through. 
"It was a big day for the defense," said Troy. 
Despite the lack of offense, nei­ther team was disappointed with their performance. 
"I was happy with our perfor­mance," said Murry. "We were just on the verge of pushing through ... hopefully we can get on track." 
Contact Aaron Ronsheim at Ronsheim.l@nd.edu and Matt DeNicola at mdenicol@nd.edu 

take ten: 
Preventing School Violence in South Bend & beyond 
Social Concerns Seminar: Theology 368 
Fall,2001 

Team with fellow ND 
l 

Students & help schools in South Bend STOP Violence before it happens 
• This ONE --CREDIT COURSE focuses on issues of youth and violence in South Bend schools. 
¦ Participants will learn ways to help reduce violence while having fun interacting with children in area schools. 
• Take Ten Team members spend I hour per week in 
their schools and 1-2 evenings per month discussing 
Application Deadline: 

their experiences ofpromoting Take Ten.
October 1, 2001 

• Readings supplement training, an address the Church's role in preventing violence in our society.
Volunteers Welcome! Contact: TakeTen. l@nd.edu 

For an Application or more lnfonnation, please 
or Contact Jay Caponigro at 631-9423

Student Coordinator Sarah Greeman 631-9424 
1{ 
ROBlNSON 
COMMUNfTY 
LEARNING 
CENTER 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL GOLD LEAGUE 
Bulldogs tame Lions, win 12-6 
By MATT MOONEY and BRIAN LONG 
Sports Writers 
The first play set the tone. 
When Badin sophomore quarterback Erin Zachary went deep and connected with wideout Amy Marshall, the Hullfrogs established a trend that would continue through­out their 12-6 victory over Lyons on Sunday. 
"We wanted to give our !young] quarterback some confidence. We had nothing to lose and wanted to go for it," Bullfrog Molly Norton said. 
Though Lyons prevented a score with a goal line stand. they could not stop the Bullfrogs' next drive. Marshall again plagued the Lions as she 1.ook the ball on an end around and scrambled untouched into the endzone. 
The Bullfrogs would add another touchdown in the sec­ond half, and Lyons never mounted a significant charge. 
Badin had the crucial edge of field position. While the Bullfrogs often found them­selves deep in their opponent's half of the field, Lyons had trouble advancing the ball. 
"Our defense did a good job of holding off their offense," said Norton. "It set up our offense and gave us opportuni­ties." 
Badin's offense put the team in a position where, even if it didn't score, it still pinned Lyons deep in its own territo­ry. Unable to muster anything against the Bullfrog defense, Lyons either punted or turned the ball over on downs on four of their five possessions. 
"Mentally, it took us awhile to get into the game. We had some penalties that hurt us and we had a short fourth down we didn't convert on," junior Lion Sarah Jenkins said. "But we're still opti­mistic. Last year it took us three games to score and we still came back and made the playoffs." 
Lyons' lone score in the con­test came off the game's only turnover. 
Near the end of the second half, sophomore Meghan Barloco picked off a Badin pass. Lyons managed to avoid the shutout as they put togeth­er their only sustained drive of the day. Quarterback Jenkins hooked up with Roxie Terevino on a short touch­down pass. A failed three point conversion ended the game. 

Afterward, Bullfrog Molly Norton said, "Our offense found its niche [in this game]. We had trouble in our first game. But we put in a lot of hard work in practice and it paid off." 
Welsh 18, Pasquerilla West 0 

Welsh Hall is back in the saddle. 
Despite the "rebuilding year" label that was slapped on the Whirlwinds, the reign­ing champs added another vic­tory on Sunday, putting away the Purple Weasels of Pasquerilla West 18-0. 
Welsh, now 3-0 on the sea­son, used an intricate offensive attack coupled with a tena­cious defense to overpower PW. 
Just two plays into the game, PW was already playing catch­up. Two Lauren Hoeck passes, for 18 and 42 yards, and the Whirlwinds found themselves up by six. 
The Weasels were not able to gain control on offensive either, as Welsh captain Vanessa Lichon intercepted a PW pass on the next posses­sion. 
Again, the Whirlwinds scored, taking advantage of Hoeck's cannon arm and a productive group of wide outs. 
PW, after giving up the quick strikes, settled down defen­sively. The offense, however, was unable to get anything going throughout the entire game. 
"We never really found our rhythm on offensive," said sophomore quarterback Leslie Schmidt. 
The lack of rhythm can be attributed to the Welsh defen­sive unit. A relentless pass rush was the key as several players, including Kat "El Gato" Wolohan, recorded sacks for the Whirlwinds. 
Contact Matt Mooney at mmooney@nd.edu and Brian Long at blong@nd.edu. 
1~
.r\
.:e(tir~
~i;;:,iµ r-\;' /"l: 
ai.DUW 
3 & 6 MILE RUNS, 2 MILE WALK AND PANCAKE BREAKFAST SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 29 11:00 -STEPAN CENTER 


Page 22 The Obser~er . SPORTS Tuesday, September 25, 200 l 
Football takes back seat to bigger things in life 
Saturday was a special day in Notre Dame Stadium. For any­one that was there, vou don't need me to tell you that. 

It started with a ceremony to honor and pray for the victims and families of the victims of the :er­rorist attacks of two weeks ago. 
A collec­tion was taken from all the fans in atten­dance, and while no numbers are vet available, it will be amazi~g to see how generous 80,795 people can be. 
Maybe the most moving dis­play of all came at halftime, 


when two rival bands stood shoulder to shoulder, play­ing Amazing Grace. 
By these accounts alone, the Notre Dame­Michigan State game was a suc­cess. As a 
Marian High School mom told me a week and a half ago, while she watched her son play again, football helps bring back a sense of normalcy to all our Jives. 
As we've been shown these last two weeks, football takes a back seat to the bigger things in life". 
But in terms of football, in terms of the game played on the field, most people in Notre Dame Stadium on Saturday walked away confused. 
The Irish dropped their fifth straight to Michigan State. Notre Dame hasn't beaten the Spartans since Sept. 17th, 1994, when all of us, players and fans alike, were still stoked about drivers' ed. 
The offense did improve since that Nebraska game. It produced 280 yards and a 100­yard rusher in senior Tony Fisher, who outperformed MSU Heisman candidate T.J. Duckett. 
Senior split end Javin Hunter continued to impress everyone, reeling in any balls thrown within a few feet of him, high­lighted by a Charles Woodson­esque one-handed grab for the only Irish touchdown. 
But despite the improvement, the last half of that last sen­tence remains the offensive Rubiks cube still waiting to be solved: 
The Irish only scored one touchdown. 
The season touchdown tally now stands at two, with the longest "drive" being LoVecchio's six-yard scoring pass to Hunter on Saturday. 
The Notre Dame offense has only converted six of 29'third downs this year, a rate of 20.6 percent. 
And as long as I'm going to get statistical, I might as well go nuts and give voice to what a lot of Irish fans are wonder­ing. 
Consider the following num• bers: in the Michigan State game, Notre Dame faced "first and 10" 31 times. 
They ran the ball on 26 of those occasions, including the first 15 in the first half (streak only broken by the six-yard touchdown tuss), and the first eight first downs in the second half. Notre Dame didn't pass on third down in the second half until they trailed 17-10 in the fourth. 
Conversely, Notre Dame 
But it's hard to deny that the offense is very predictable right now, and despite its marked improvement l'rom game one to two, the points still aren't coming. 
At that same press confer­ence, l stood inside an ever­tightening wall of reporters around quarterback Matt LoVecchio. I didn't ask any questions. I could hardly move or make out any faces. 
I can't imagine what it must have felt like f'or him or the players who thought post game boos were being directed at them. 
I hope that no one involved in Notre Dame football has to feel that again soon. 

There's just too many good people in the program for that to happen. 
Contact Ted Fox at tfox@nd.edu. The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
As a Marian High School 
post game mom told me a week press con­
Between Rome & Moscow 1921--1929" 
ference, he

and halfago ... football 
said: "When

helps bring back a sense 
you're not ofnormalcy to all real explo­sive, you 
Friday, September 28 
our lives. 

faced 14 third downs in this game, and passed on 12 of them. They converted two of these 12 passing third downs. 
The Nanovic Institute for European Studies

In fairness to the Irish: out of their 13 possessions, they only 
Presents

went three and out (or worse) four times. They also operated in Michigan State. territory six times. 
Bob Davie is definitely right 
W infried Becker when he says his team needs to execute better. They were 
University of Passau, Germany

minus two on turnovers this week, and losing the ball once again probably made the crown on the field seem a little 
steeper. 
"German Diplomats and Missionaries
At his 
really have 
to execute. 
4:30 PM

There's no margin for error. And that's the kind of team we are right 
201 DeBartolo Hall 
now." 

David Givens and Arnaz Battle were both injured, and they are a big part of that 
Winfried Becker, Professor of Modern and Contemporary history at the 

potential Irish offensive erup­
University of Passau, has published widely on religion and history and

tion. Still, I know this Irish offense can be a heck of a lot 
particularly on Christian Democracy. Among his many books devoted 

more explosive than it has 
to religious themes are Reformation and Revolution (1974);

been. Why? The players are too good for 
Christianity and Democracy (1991); Churches in German History from 
it not to be. 
the Christianization of the Germans to the Present (1996); and The

Let's be honest. The only people on this campus who are 
Domestic Politics of the German Center Party, 1871,1933: Minority on 

true scholars of the game are 
a Middle Course (1986).

the blue and gold and their coaches. They know more about the game and its nuances than any of us could ever hope to. 
Few people will ever setfoot in an office like this. But then, few people have what it takes to be a Marine Officer Officer Candidates School (OCS) is the first step towards preparing you for afuture beyond anything 
At OCS you'll develop the qualities you need to become a Marine Officer. Invaluable training that could lead to an exciting career in aviation. If you've got what it takes to be a leader of Marines, you could get an office with aspectacular view. 

you could imagine. SEE YOUR MARINE CORPS OFFICER SELECTION TEAM 
If you are looking for a unique challenge, contact 1st LIEUTENANT WILLIAMS for more information 1-877-299-9397 OSOLAF@9MCD.USMC.MIL 

MARINE OFFICER PROGRAMS www.Marines.com 2001 
Tuesday, September 25, 2001 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
RYAN
TOM KEELEY 
BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED

FOURTH AND INCHES 
CUNNINGHAM 

-.,. 
BILL AMEND

FOXTROT 




EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 30 Its area is about 55 One might be 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22):
3.7 million on a crib sheet 1 Hardly a Rambo 

THIS DAY: Cathy Rigby, Frank You will be in the mood to get
sq. mi.

movie 56 First to be 
Sinatra, Dionne Warwick, Connie out and socialize. You should do 
31 Roll back, say counted?

11 Guests may do Francis, Tracy Austin, Jennifer something special with children; it 32 A lot of talk 57 Capitol Connelly they will appreciate your time show talk Happy Birthday: Keep busy more than you realize. Specu­
60 Alphabet bit 15 Biohazard 

34 Scaloppine, or you'll have too much time to lative investments will pay off.
protection 61 Winner of three 
usually think negative thoughts. Plan to 000 16 Arthur's onetime Grammys in fill your year by impfementing all LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22):
36 Abandon 

court rival 1984 those great ideas you have. The Investments will be lucrative. You
37 Compartmental­62 Bit of instruction more you do, the further ahead can persuade others to support17 Member of a ized cuisine? 

you get and the less time you'll your ideas for a more efficient

legendary 63 61-Across, e.g.
41 Bad-mouth have to feel sorry for yourself. method of doing things at work.
outlaw band 
45 Liquide vital The time is right ·to push hard Your romantic partner may feel 18 Holds (down) DOWN and achieve, Your numbers: 3, 18, somewhat jilted. 000
46 An Indian may 
25, 31, 37, 44 SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):

19_1! has many be in it 1 Artisan 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your interest in starting your own

keys: Abbr. 47 Not even 
2 Greek You can't let little things bother business will mount. Talk to indi­20 Quarrel settler, 48 Auto supply 3 Montreal and you so much. Go out with friends viduals who are already in that maybe inventory others who will lift your spirits. Changes position. You can gain an inside in your living arrangements will look at the pitfalls of being your
21 Racine tragedy 51 "Love and 4 Balancing pro 
be necessary. 00 own boss. 0000 23 See 53-Across 5 Like some souls TAURUS (April 20-May 20): SAGITrARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 
Basketball" 
co-star

25 Beet, for one or words Get together with old friends. 21): You will have a change of
52 Like a mean dog 
You will be surprised how easy it heart regarding your professional
6 Women of the

27 Playbook play 53 With 23-Across, haus is to pick up where you left off, direction. You may want to take a 29 Controversial where campers even with t:liose that you haven't stab at doing your own thing or spray eat 7 Put on board seen for a decade. Socializing will just take time off to discover what 
8 Like "scaloppine" raise your self-esteem. 0000 you would like to do. 000 GEMINI (May 21-June 20): CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan.
9 Newspaper div.

0 S PUZZL Look at your investments careful­19): You will be a little unsettled
ANSWER TO PREVI U E 10 Jewish ravioli 
ly. Some need to be updated, and about your personal partneiship. P A L L I O T R U E B O R 11 More fully others should be cashed in. Don't Don't be too hard on your mate. A V I A T E developed be alarmed if someone in your Think back to the number of 
family needs help. Offer what­times that you were too busy to

L E N 12 Removed with 
ever assistance you can. 000 give of yourself. 000
little effort 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 

13 Marsannay or Romance will surface if you mix You will have an influence on California business with pleasure. Do not others. Be careful not to misdirect Grenache step over boundaries that may someone by mistake. You can 
jeopardize your position. Past contribute to an organization that 
14 Spanish bread 

events may make you question you believe in Don't be too quick 22 Rounding up your relationship. 000 to lend others money. 000
39 "All Star Revue· 

figures? LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
host of SO'S TV 

24 Fountain near Answers to any three clues in this puzzle hesitate to apply for a better posi­You will get recognition for a job
40 German

the Spanish are available by touch-tone phone: tion Mingle with those who can well done. Take a position of mathematician help you climb the professional leadership. Voice your opinions
Steps 1·900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute).
for whom a ladder. You will gain respect and at gatherings. Don't let anyone 

branch of Annual subscriptions are available tor the be able to close deals if you use take advantage of your kindness A N E M O N V D A 28 Piece of silver, geometry is best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 your chann and wit. 0000 and consideration 00000 SEASNA NEST perhaps named years: 1-888•7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

50 Change prices, say 
54 Barricade 
58 Castilian kinsman 
59Icelegend 



Campus Sports OTHE Campus Sports
BSERVER 

. Ted Fox, p. 22 
. Men's Soccer, p. 18 
. 
Women's lnterhall, p. 21, 19 . Men's lnterhall, p. 14 

. 
SMC Soccer, p. 17 



PORTS 
Tuesday, September 25, 2001 
FOOTBALL 

Holiday to start against A&M 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Ao;sociate Spores Editor 

Irish head coach Bob Davie· named sophomore quar­terback Carlyle Holiday the starting quarterback for Saturday's game against Texas A&M. 
"We need a spark and we need some points," Davie said. "Carlyle is a guy who I think deserves the opportu­nity to provide that spark." 
[n Notre Dame's two losses to Nebraska and Michigan State, the Irish have been noticibly missh1g the capabili­ty to make big plays on offense. 
Davie hinted Sunday he was considering a change in quarterbacks. 
"Did we generate enough offense? No," hfl said. "Did we generate enough big plays? No. Was that Matt !LoVecchio'sl fault? That's a tough question to answer." 
Early Monday morning, Davie and the rest of the Irish coaches tried to answer that question. They ultimately decided that it would be better to start Holiday in place of LoVecchio to try to shake things up. And Holiday felt the effects immediately. 
Normally after practice, Notre Dame head coach Bob Davie is surrounded by about 10 reporters. While the rest of the football team files into the locker room, Davie patiently waits outside as he fields question after ques­tion about the Irish football team. 
But Monday afternoon, things were different. 

Only one reporter stood in front of Davie, who minutes befor_t: had announced that Holiday would start against Te=·&M.. ~he r?st were all crowded around Holiday, 
who d his weight from foot to foot as he stood with his han s--claspedj:iehind his back and answered every question hurled his way. 
see STORY/page 18 

ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Irish host No. 3 Huskers 
ByJEFF BALTRUZAK 
Assistant Sports Editor 
In the most important game the Notre Dame 

women's  soccer  team's  
short season thus  far,  the  
No.  4  
I  r  i  s  h  
take  on  
third­ 
ranked  
Nebraska  
in  a  
s h  ow  - 
down  of  
collegiate  Wal drum  
soccer  

heavyweights tonight at Alumni Field. 
If anything, tonight's con­test will answer questions for the Irish. Though it enters the game at 5-0-1, Notre Dame has not shown much brilliant play over the first weeks in the sea­son, barely eking out games against less-touted opponents, including this past weekend's game against Villanova, where the Irish took almost 25 minutes of overtime to finally put away the over­matched Wildcats. 
Nebraska has recently rung up huge victories over lightly-regarded Northern 1-owa and EvansviUe. The Huskers did, however, take down top-ranked North Carolina in an exhibition match Aug. 25. 
Irish head coach Randy Waldrum knows that his team must pick up their level of play to beat the Huskers. · 
"We've got Nebraska coming in here on Tuesday, and we have to play better if we're going to have a chance against them," said Waldrum after this weekend's games. "Somebody really needs to step up and lead this team if we want to get where we need to be." 
Irish senior captain Mia Sarkesian described Nebraska's style of play as 
"direct." The Huskers will 
not try to finesse Notre 
Dame, and their "attack­
ing" style will require the 
Irish to concentrate on 
their focus. 
"We need to come out 
with intensity," said 
Sarkesian. "We need to 
play quickly." 
The Irish have been prac­
ticing to counteract the 
aggressiveness of the 
Huskers with discipline 
and skill. 
"We've been definitely 
preparing for them," said 
Sarkesian. "They're con­
stantly kicking and pres­
suring you." 
To effectively contain the Nebraska offense, the Irish will need to tighten up on defense. The back line is still looking for a cohesive set up among the Irish's many talented defenders, including junior Vanessa Pruzinksy and senior cap­.tain Lindsey Jones. and 
see SOCCER/page 19 
MEN'S INTERHALL BLUE LEAGUE 

O'Neill tops St. Eds for first-ever win 
By MATT LOZAR and JOE 
HETTLER 
Sports Writers 
Sept. 23, 2001 will go down in the history books of O'Neill Hall. 
The Angry Mob earned their first-ever interhall football victo­ry Sunday, winning 14-7 against St. Edward's. 
"They wanted it and they played with a lot of desire," said O'Neill coach Morgan Creppel. "The guys worked hard and they executed well." 
The Angry Moh mainly ran a ball control offense, but was able to pass the ball when they needed to. 
Quarterback Troy Mont­gomery only threw three passes. He completed each one to Kyle Johnson, two of them for touch­downs. 
"I don't deserve the credit anymore than anyone else," said Johnson. "The offensive line and quarterback were the reason for the great execution." 

Montgomery and Johnson con­nected on the winning touch­down. a 15-yard pass to put O'Neill up 14-7. 
"Kyle Johnson made a couple of great catches," Creppel said. "It was perfect execution," said Enterline. 
On' their first drive of the game, O'Neill called eight run­ning plays before a 25-yard touchdown pass from Montgomery to Johnson put them up 7-0. 
"We need to come out with a little more intensity," said St. Ed's captain Nick Sciola. "We knew they would come out fired up." 
SL Ed's came right back to tie the game at seven on a perfect 30-yard touchdown pass from quarterback Dan Tarsha to Kevin McNamara. 
see O'NEILL/page 20 
. ND Women's Soccer vs. Nebraska, Today, 7 p.m. 
OBSERVER 

. SMC Soccer vs. Alma, Today, 4 p.m.
SPORTS 
ootine classifieds 

. Men's Soccer at Bradley, Today, 7p.m.AT AGLANCE . SMC Volleyball at Hope, Thursday, 7p.m. http://www.nd.edu/ ~observer 


