
Alittle G. Lovin' 
Saving a buck 
In preparation for the upcoming concert this 
Hiring non-unionized workers is contradictory 

Tuesday
week, music critic Tim Bodony takes a special 
to SMC as an institution that supposedly 
look at G. Love and Special Sauce. 
values human rights, say some jstudents. 
MARCH 27, 
Scene . page 15 
Viewpoint. page 13 
2001 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre.Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXIV NO. 110 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


Gas line break forces evacuation of five buildings 
By JASON McFARLEY New, Ediror 
A broken gas line on a Universitv constrt1ction site Monday caused no injuries but forced the evacuation of sevt~ral n<2.1rby buildings, dis­rupting morning classes. 
The break occurred around 1O a.m. after a backhoe struck a 4-inch gas line near the site of the new philoso­phy-theology office building. still under construction as an addition to Decio Faculty Hall. according to !';otre Dame Fire Department Operations Chi~f John Antonucci. 
Notre Dame fire officials responded to an emergency call about 10:09 a.m. and arrived on the scene with a risk management officer and a crew from 'Jorthern Indiana Public Service Company, Antonucci said. 
While Antonucci said he gave word around 10:15 a.m. to evacuate, some students in neighboring O'Shaughnessy Hall said they remained in their classrooms until at least 
10:30 a.m.. when· fire alarms sounded. 
"Our class was running late. It was 10:30, and we should have been out five minutPs earlier," said junior Katrina Myers. "I could defi­nitely smell gas while sitting in class."· 
Senior Kelly Potter gave a similar estimate of the time of evacuation. 
"It was aro.und 10:30. I· couldn't smell gas in class, 

but once we were in the halls, 1 could smell it and ha.d an idea of what was going on. Still, most people treated it like it was only a fire drill,'' Potter said. 
Antonucci said NIPSCO workers made temporary repairs to the line within an hour. 
Following the repairs, stu­dents, faculty and staff were allowed to reoccupy the five campus buildings that had been evacuated: O'Shaughnessy Hall, Decio Hall, St.epan Chemistry Hall, the Radiation Library and the Computing Center/ Mathematics Building. By 
11:30 a.m., students. faculty and staff were allowed to reoccupy the buildings. 
"We ordered people to evacuate as a precaution, but NIPSCO had repairs done within the hour and we were able to give the all clear around 11 :20 or 11 :30," Antonucci said. 
Antonucci said firemen on the scene helped evacuate buildings and directed stu­dents away from the area between Stepan and O'Shaughnessy. Many stu­dents reported being directed toward DeBartolo Hall. 
The temporary gas outaged closed the grills during lunch at South Dining Hall. The grills reopened for dinner. 
The damaged gas line was at the north entrance of the philosophy-theology building, which is scheduled to be open in the fall. The building is adjacent to O'Shaughnessy Hall and the Radiation Lab. 
University construction of the new philosophy-theology building caused the evacuation of several buildings around campus as well as the gas supply to South dining Hall. Fireman officials notified the administration in the buildings affected, but some students remained in classrooms for an additional 15 minutes. Although no injuries were reported, the gas line break interrupted classes for more than an hour. 
. 
Photos by 

Finn Pressly 
Ambassador addresses 'two Colombias' 
By BRIGID SWEENEY 
News Writer 
As part of a two-day conference focusing on democracy, human rights and peace in Colombia, Ambassador Luis Alberto Moreno addressed a group in McKenna Hall Monday afternoon, offering goals and plans for the country in the 21st century. 
"Colombia's problems are very complex and interrelated," he said. "We ne"d a lot more self­reflection to understand ourselves better, to under­stand where we want to go and how we want to get there." 
Moreno. who has served as the Colombian Ambassador to the U.S. 

since 1998, explained the problems Colombia faces. 
"There are currently two Colombias," he said. "ln urban, modern Colombia, 70 percent of the population lives in 10 cities, and Bogota [the capital city] has a lower crime rate than Washington, D.C." 
The other Colombia, however, struggles with drug trade, a lack of schools and roads, devas­tation of rain forests and human rights problems. This Colombia encompass­es the rural Amazon basin farming community, which, according to Moreno. "is living in the 19th century." 
In order to combat these problems, he offered sev­eral suggestions, including a Human Rights Early Warning System to pre­vent disappearances, mas­sacres and other human rights abuses. 
Moreno urged the audi­ence of professors, authors and human rights activists to resist associat­ing Colombia with other countries that also infringe upon human rights. 
"Colombia's case is unique because, unlike China and other human rights violators, it is a democracy," he said. "The problem is not a dictator, but rather the pressure of drug traffickers." 
In order to resist this pressure and the resultant lawlessness, Moreno turned to Colombian armed forces. 

"We must accept the fact that we still have a lot to do," he said. "We need better, more accountable armed forces. We need technological advances and troop training to form modern forces that sever all ties with paramilitary groups." 
Moreno also called for a change of attitude in countries' interactions with Colombia. 
"Complaining idly will not get the job done," he said. "We need creative ideas to increase produc­tivity, strengthen infra­structure, and protect the environment. We need to support free trade initia­tives in order to promote growth and job creation, 
see COLOMBWpage 4 


Knight to speak at Stepan Center 
By ERIN LaRUFFA News Wrirer 
Famous to some, infamous to others, the man with 
the red sweater is coming to Notre Dame. 
Tonight, before a crowd of Notre Dame students 
and South Bend community members, college bas­
ketball coach Bobby Knight will offer his insights on 
coaching and motivating students. 
"Some people really seem to like him as a basket­
ball coach. Some people seem to hate him, I guess 
because of his temper problems," said Stephen 
Christ, the student in charge of organizing the event 
for the Student Union Board (SUB). "But everyone 
seems verv interested." 
Knight was recently fired as Indiana University's 
head men's basketball coach after nearly three 
decades and a handful of national championships, 
but also many well-publicized outbursts. Texas Tech 
then hired Knight as its head men's basketball coach. 
see KNIGHT/page 4 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Tuesday, March 26, 2001 
INSIDE COLUMN QUOTES OF THE WEEK 



Dining hall 
•

etiquette 

Here I sit at Tho Observer trying to think of a 
tnpic for my Inside Column. Now, I know there 
are several different ways I could go with this. 
Maybe I should talk about W's tax plan, or 
maybe the Mir crashing back to Earth. 
No, I think I will talk about something that is of grand national importance -The dining hall. 
Yesterday I was sitting in the dining room at SDH when I saw this guy drop his tray. His bowl came crashing down, and food splattered all over the floor. 
The guy did not try to clean up his mess. He just left it there for some dining hall worker to clean it up. 
1t reminds me of an inci­dent from breakfast last year. I dropped my tray np,ar the drink machines. l was embarrassed at dropping my food, but since_ it was breakfast not many people were around. Immediately I bent down to clean up my food. A dining hall worker came up behind me and cleaned up my food for mfl. She reassured me to go get more food and to not worry about the mess. 
I understand that it is the dining hall work­er's job to clean up food. But is it really. that hard to clean up a bowl and a plate? 
Most, if not all, of the people who go to Notre Dame come from middle class backgrounds. There wasn't much that we lacked growing up beyond the new He-Man toy or nerf toy. Notre Oame students volunteer at a much greater rate than the average University. We partic­ipate in Summer Service Projects and dorm service days. 
So let's not take the DH workers for granted. Don't be a jerk for something as simple as cleaning up your plate. 
I think that the next time I see this in the din­ing hall I am just going to go ballistic and punch someone. Of course I won't punch the guy in the dining hall. Especially if he is bigger than I am. 
Maybe I will just take my aggression out on the feta cheese in the salad bar. 
Another thing that bothers me about the din­ing hall is the guy who stands in front of the cups at the drink machines. He is the guy who waits until the drink machine right by the cups is open. Meanwhile, a line ofseven or eight people begins to form behind the one guy wait­ing for cups. 
I am sure most of you have experienced this phenomenon in the DH. Those of you who haven't experienced this are probably those causing the problem in the first place. 
I can't tell you the shame the first time I found out that my friend Pete is one of those guys. He waited right in front of the cups for me to get done filling my cup. I thought I had taught him better than that. Apparently not. 
Bottom line, don't be that guy. 
So in closing, let me stress that this isn't of national importance. Stuff that happens in din­ing hall isn't oppressing anyone, and it really isn't taking money out of anyone's pocket. There are more important things in the world, like global warming. But considering it snowed yesterday, I don't think we need to worry about that. So I guess the dining hall is the most important thing happening right now. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene Kinin Turner Sam Oerheimer Scotr Brodfuehrer Chris Score Finn Pressly 
Graphics Sports 
Kacie McKcnna Brian Kronk Production 
MollyMcVoy 
Kacie McVoy Viewpoint 
Lab Tech Kure Bogard 
Kylie Carrer 

Tho Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) i, published Monday through Frid.,y t:x:ccp1 during cx..un J111..i vacJtion pcriod!i. The Observer is a member of the Associated Pres!.. AU reproduction r1ghrs arc reserved. 

DUKE UNIVERSITY 
Professor to view Earnhardt photos 
Monday a Duke University professor became one of the last people to look at the autopsy photos of racing legend Dale Earnhardt Sr. Dr. Barry Myers, professor of biomedical engineering, was appointed Thursday as the expert who will review the photos and answer three questions from the Orlando Sentinel. as per the agree­ment between the newspaper and Eamhardt's widow, Teresa. After the viewing, the photos would be sealed. But further complicating the legal battle over the photos, the Volusia County medical examiner on Friday called the agreement that would put a permanent seal on a public record "illegal." In a motion, County Attorney Daniel Eckert repeated the mantra that the county, who has custody of the photos, sees no exemption in the state public-records law to deny access to them. 'Those por­tions of the ... agreement, which provide for permanent sealing of the file...are illegal and void as they pertain to (the medical examiner)," the motion stated. "The court's approval of a settlement agreement cannot create an exemption where one does not exist by statute." 


LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
"We are delighted to "/t's tough, but "If[Murphy] decides 'TSaint Mary's 
have more inviting [Jones] understands not to come back. I'll carries] a lot ofclout facilities and a more the consequences if be the first to con-and when they do comfortable he does something gratulate him . ., something like this, environment for that's against school Head coach Mike Brey on it in.f7,uences others 
,, 

everyone. rules.,, Troy Murphy's decision on to follow. ,. 
whether to enter the NBA
Assistant First Year of Studies Running back Tony Fisher on Mike Kruk, union representa­draft or play for the Irish for
Dean Kevin Rooney on the Julius Jones' suspension tive, on the college's decision a full four years
new Coleman-Morse center from spring practice to use a non-union fim1 
Compiled from U-Wire reports


OUTSIDE THE DOME 

Police, mob face off after Penn State loss 
UNIVERSITY PARK, Pa. 
Officers in riot gear initially 
At least three people -a female focused on trying to keep people on student, an apartment security the sidewalks. After revelers start­guard and a Pennsylvania State ed tossing beer bottles and cans University Police Services officer -from nearby apartment balconies, suffered face and head injuries, King said police were forced to give State College Police Chief Tom King dispersal orders. said. The disturbance reached a break­
Traffic signs and light posts sus­ing point at about 12:15 a.m., when tained damage and several win­crowd members toppled the dows were broken, but the State Stop/Do Not Enter sign in front of College Police Department has not after midnight as crowds gathered Cedarbrook, 320 E. Beaver Ave. yet released a cost for the vandal­on Beaver Avenue between Garner Police then formed a line and ism. and Pugh Streets, banging street pushed south on Locust Lane, urg­
Police estimated 4,000 people -signs and cheering "We Are Penn ing people off the street and aiming many of whom were intoxicated -State" and "Temple Sucks." pepper spray at the crowd. swarmed into "Beaver Canyon" fol­As the size and volume of the Officers subsequently used the lowing Penn State's loss to Temple crowd increased, some students wedge tactic to divide and disperse Friday night in the NCAA men's took turns climbing up the street crowds gathered on the other side basketball tournament. sign at Beaver Avenue and Locust of Locust Lane and in either direc­
The disturbance began shortly Lane, the center of the unrest. tion on Beaver Avenue. 

Atlanta 57 34 Las Vegas 78 55 Portland 39 25 
Baltimore 40 27 Memphis 57 39 Sacramento 74 52 Boston 41 30 Milwaukee 35 27 St. Louis 52 35
4,Q,Qp6;}.Q !} ~ u 

Chicago 38 28 New York 40 31 Tampa 66 59 
Showers i~sforms Rain Flurries Snow Tee Sunny Pf. Cloudy Cloudy 

Houston 62 57 Philadelphia 42 30 Wash DC 43 30 
Via Associsted Press Graph1csNBI 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA Los ANGELES 
President Fox discusses Internet 
Newly elected Mexican President Vincente Fox met with Gov. Gray Davis, University of California President Richard Atkinson and 25 educators from both sides of the border at UCLA Wednesday to discuss the high­speed lnternet2 connection between the University of California and Mexico. Davis also announced the open­ing the second California House in Mexico City, which will be home to the UC's Education Abroad program. Due to time constraints, Fox limited his time at the James West Alumni Center to just under half his expected hour-long stay. Afterward, he went to Macgowan Hall for an interview with the Spanish lan­guage television station Univision. Fox, who was elect­ed president in December after more than 70 years of· single-party rule, said Mexico has lost a lot of time in the last century and is lagging in the technological era. "Right now we have one computer for every 50 inhabi­tants," Fox said at the Alumni Center. "In other parts of the world, there will be a one to one ratio, so we have to speed up the process of connecting."
.. 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, March 27. 
H L 
Wednesday ~ 52 32 
~
Thursday ..... ,, ... 48 36 


Friday ~ 54 37 
....-.-............
Saturday C, .. , .. , 55 39 

c 2001 Accuweather, Inc. COLD WAl=rM STATIONARY 
,,,.n~: 

® © D D D D D D 
~ 
High Low Shower, Rain T••torm• Fluule• Snow le• Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy
Sunday ,,,,, 58 43 
V..,As$()Ciati;dPreSs 

Tuesday, March 27, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
IU construction plans underway near ND 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER 
News Writer 
Indiana University is finalizing plans for a building on the corner of Angela Ave. and Notre Dame Ave. that will house its South Bend Center for Medical Education and Notre Dame's Walther Cancer Research Center. The Center for Medical Education is currently located in the base­ment of Haggar flail, 
"It will be an HJ building on IU property. IU is responsible for its construction, but Notre Dame will have a long term lease that lets us review the building's final design," University Vice President and Associate Provost Jeffrey Kantor said. 
The South Bend Center for Medical Education is a branch of the Indiana Univerltty School of Medicine and one of eight satel­lite centers in its medical school. The center has 32 first and sec­ond year medical students who are registered as Notre Dame graduate students and enjoy the same benefits as all Notre Dame students, such as tickets to foot­ball games, access to campus housing and campus grade reports. The students complete their education at Indiana'.s main campus at Bloomington. 
The Walther Cancer Research Center is a collaboration of the Walther Cancer Institute and the College of Science and studies the treatment and prevention of can­cer. 
"It is a pre-clinical, fundamen­tal medical research facility ­there are no patients," said Kantor. 
The space for the new center is built on the same property Northern Indiana State Hospital occupied. The state-owned facili­ty was closed in 1999 and IU worked in cooperation with Notre Dame to obtain the property from the state. The hospit.al has been destroyed and planning for the new facility, set to open in 2003, is almost completed. 
"We are still designing the inte­rior, and have about three more meetings left before construction can begin," said Dr. John O'Malley, director of the South Bend Center for Medical Education. 
The new building will greatly increase the center's space and makes it a possibility that the center's enrollment may eventu­ally increase above the current 32 students. 
"It will at least triple the amount of space we have and il.s conceivable that the number of students could increase," said O'Malley. 
Kantor said that when the cen­ter moves from its current loca­tion in the basement of Haggar Hall, that space will be assigned to the psychology department, where the space is "badly need­ed." 

SMC 'takes back the night' 
By MYRA McGRIFF Saint Mary's Editor 
In the annual tradition ofTake Back the Night, more than 20 students from both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame campuses joined together Monday night to call awareness to sexual assaults that have occurred on the Saint Mary's r:ampw,. 
The international event is a ritual symbolizing a recovery of space where a specific sexual assault took place. The students formed circles around each site on Saint Mary's campus where a student had been sexually assaulted. 
Students said prayers, sang r,hantc; and read poetry to repre­sent the reclaiming of a space. As specified in part of a chant, reclaiming space signifies two points: one to empower women and two as strength for victims of sexual assault. 
"Women are given a chance to gather and raise awareness about an issue that affects all of us," said Katie Pyonter, Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination (CARE) officer. 
CARE hopes that by sponsor­ing events like Take Back the Night, awareness will be raised about the security of students everywhere. 

They hope college campuses will see the importance of malc­ing campuses safe for all stu­dent<; so student<; are not afraid to walk around campus at night. 
"I don't have the ability to walk 

alone at night and "It makes people couldn't 
feel safe," said involved more aware but be here," Julie Frischkorn, s a i d
also provides a spiritual
CARE officer. Evans. 
Understanding healing andforgiving. " Other students do not students feel safe, CARE came in
Lindsay Evans
also hopes the the name
participant in the events
walks provides 0 f 
awareness, but also to stand in solidarity with survivors. 
Although they may not have been assaulted, students felt an obligation to stand up in a safe space for their friends. 
"I had a friend who was attacked and I knew the guy and it was never reported. I came because s h e 

people with a safe space that stands for more than just reclaiming and naming a tangible place as safe. 
The participating students saw the ovent as an opportunity for people that have been attacked to spealc out. 
"It makes people involved more aware but also provides a spiritual healing and forgiving," said participant Llndsay Evans. Those involved. in the event crune not only to heighten their 
empow­
erment. 
Feeling that victims do not get a voice or a place to feel under­stood, students wanted to come and experience self-expression without censorship. 
"I can bring back to Notre Dame, to people that do not feel they have a place to express their feelings, that there is an organization that does empower women to feel safe and express it," said Jana Vandergoota, a Notre Dame fifth year. 

AAR 
Accenture (:formerl.y Andersen. Consul.ting) Al.ban.y Mol.ecular Research., Ix,.c:_ All.state I:n.su::w:a:nce Company Argon.ne Nation.al. Laboratory 
Ce:n.tral. I:ntel.1.ige:nce Age:n.cy 
Chicago Pu.bl.ic School.s 
Clarke En.vi.ro:n.me:n.ta1. Mosquito Ma:nagemen.t, I:n~­Cole-Parmer Instrume:n.t Company COMPENDIT, Inc. 
El.i Lil.1.y a-nd Coxnpa:n.y (Biological. Sciences) El.i Lil.1.y and Company (Chexnistry) Gen.era.I El.ectric -Medical. Systems Gol.de:n. Appl.e Fou.ndatio:n. Gol.dma.:n. Sachs Group, Inc. Hershey Foods Corpora.1:.io::n. 
IBM Corporation. 
Indian.a Department 0£ Tra:nsport:ation 
2001 SCIENCE 
CAREER FAIR 
Sponsored by The Career Cent:er and t:he College ofScience 
Tu.esday, March 27, 2001 
12:00 p.m. 5:00 p.m. 

Joyce Center Heritage Hall, Second Floor Con.course (Enter Gates 1 or 2) :PU'LL Tli:ME INTERNSHIPS • SER.VJ:CE 

.::J_p_ New & Associates .::John.son & .;Johnson. Lab Support, a division. 0£ O:n Assigx,.me:n.t MediChem Research., I:nc_ NOAA (Nation.al. Ocea.:n.i.c & Atmospheric 
Administration) North.western Memorial Hospital. 
Peace Corps Pfizer -Gl.obal. Research. & Devel.opme:n.t Group Pharmacia Corporation Sigma-Aldrich, Inc. Spear., Leeds and Kel.1.ogg Stepan. Su.m:rnerbridge National. Teach For America The Augusti:nian Vol.u.:n.teer Program -Order 
o:f St. Augustine 

. U _g_ A:ir Poree U .s_ Environ.mental. Protection Agency 
LETTERS. WILL BE FORWARDED TO EMPLOYERS 
Chiron. Corporation. Memoria"l Sloa.n.-Ketteri:ng Ca.:ncer Ce:nter Easter Seal.s Wisconsin. Pfizer -Pharmace-u.tic:als Grou.p Farmers In.s-u.ra.:n.c:e Group Fu.rdue Pharma L-P­Internatio:n.a.l Foundation. 0£ Exnpl.oyee The Children's Museum of In.dianapolis 
Benefit Plans 
The Rockefel.1.er University -=sa:n.sse:n -Phar:n1..a.ce-u.tica 
WYETH 
Lockheed Martin. 
-----------------· 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 27, 2001 
International Studies, the law school's Center for Civil and 


Slide Show /Lecture 
Colo01bia 
Human Rights, The Kroc continued from page I Institute for International 
Monday, March 26 

Peace Studies and the as economic stability leads to Colombian Commission of 
4:00 PM

Lomas §arza
political stability." Jurists. The conference, which con­It is part of a three-year ini­
Jordan Auditorium 

tinues today, is the result of a tiative designed to address collaboration between The vital issues affecting modern 
Ca.scsnmes (Eas-/sr Eggs;. l989. gouaCNI, 15 ,I( ZO in<:hes. Collecllon ol G!lbe1to Cardenas. South Sarni, IN, 1Jse11 witn ~miss:on o1 art1s1 
Free and open to the public 

Kellogg Institute for Colombia. 
Papel Picado 

€? ~f 00~ '"~ Workshop* 
Tuesday, March 2 7 
'''" ,,,.,. "'n,, 
4:00 PM 
The Student Activities Office Is now accepting applications 
Snite Museum 
/'or student en1ployee positions f'or the 200!-2002 acadetnic year. 
Ashbaugh Educational Center 
Open to families with small children, 
Possible positions availab.k.· 
student teachers and art teachers 
24 HOU'R LOUNGE MONITORS BilLLROOM MONITORS INFORMATION DESI( & SOX OFFICE ASSISTANTS LAFORTUNE BU/LO/NG SET U'P CREW 
"Business of Art" 
LAFORTUNE BUILDING MANAGERS ND CAKE SERVICE 
Student Lecture* 
ND EXPRESS SOUND TECHNICIANS 

"'Limited availability; must sign up in advance. Wednesday, March 28 For m01e information or to sign up, please contact: 
STEPAN CENTER MANAGERS 

Diana Leza, Program and Public Relations Coordin:uor 3:30PM lnsritute for Latino Studies
STUDENT PROGRAMMERS 
Phone: 631.3747 E-mail· Leza l(~ind.cdu 
119 O'Shaughnessy
STUDENT OFFICE ASSISTANTS 

Open to undergraduate and graduate Brought to you by the 
students interested in pursuing 
Applications available out.side the Student Activities Office, 
3 ! 5 LaFortune oron-line at www.nd.edursao/f'orms 

Institute for Latino Studies and the an artistic career Snite Museum of Art
At>PLICATION DEADLINE IS FRIDAY, APRIL 6. 
Knight's success as a bead coach and his ability to
Knight 

recruit players. continued from page 1 "I think he is a good coach -I like Bobby Some students praised Knight," Scarborough said. the success of Knight's He added that one of his basketball program, while friends from high schools at the same time denounc­was recruited by Knight to ing some of Knight's play at Indiana. actions. Because of his reputa­"He is a good basketball tion, his speech could lead coach but some of his to a significant discussion methods aren't right," said on campus, according to freshman Mike Vitlip. graduate student Cristina 
•·1 think that he's a good Mendoza. coach but sometimes he "Maybe it's good to get uses a power hungry dialogue· going on what's approach," said sopho­appropriate for adult role more Abhey Coons. models," Mendoza said, 
Vitlip and Coons are not adding that she was planning lo attend the "frankly surprised that sp1rnch because of other T~xas Tech would hire commitments, but both him." Whether or not it said they would probably will start a discussion be attending if they could. about role models, Sophomore Alex Clark Knight's behavior certainly similarly said he wished he has put him in the head­was going lo be able to lines, particularly when he hear Knight speak. was fired as Indiana's 
"llc'll be interesting -coach and then hired to controversial, but different coach Texas Tech. is always good for college "Bob Knight's in the campuses," Clark said. news so much, especially "You can't just discount recently," said Christ in him because he's a little explaining why he thought outrageous." Some stu­Knight would be a popular rfonts were even stronger speaker at the University. in their defense of Knight Christ also pointed to the and said they were looking growing popularity of bas­forward to listening to his ketbaH at Notre Dame as a speech tonight. reason why the SUB chose 
"I think he'll show a to invite Knight. more humane side," junior "Notre Dame was so into 1larold Johnson said. basketball this year," 
"I want to know why he Christ said. choked someone. I want to "He's a figure that's defi­know why he threw the nitely had a major impact chair." said Jae on NCAA basketball,"said Scarborough. a sopho­Vit!ip. more. The SUB's budget and 
"All you sec is Bobby ticket revenue will cover Knight yelling at people," the entire cost of the event, Johnson said. "There has which includes a fee to to be something good Knight of an amount Christ about the guy." The public said he could not disclose. and Lhe media misrepre­Before any of today's sent Knight. according to ticket sales, 1,200 of the Johnson. available 1,800 tickets had 
Both Johnson and been sold, according to Scarborough pointed to Christ. He expects to sell 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 

G~oup rejects Fae. Senate resolution 
in effect was an amended version of it Brendan Dowdall, a Student Senate
ByJASON McFARLEY 

Monday. representative, said 822 survey
News Editor 

However, some argued that that responses from students indicate that 
Two resolutions were passed W1ani­

wasn't the case. there are discrepancies between stu­mously at the Campus Life Council "We shouldn't be saddened. This is dents' views of access policies and the meeting Monday but another resur­
an issue that students have voiced actual rules that are in place. He said rected old conflicts v.,ithin the body's support for," Student Senate repre­through Lenel most groups at the ranks 
sentative Seth Whetzel said. ''This University have equal access to dorms With little disagreement, members isn't a mask or a guise for trying to get dw-ing visitation how-s. approved resolutions dealing with 
this passed because we haven't The CLC also unanimously access to residence halls and eating 
passed other resolutions." Some con­approved a resolution regarding the disorders, but discussion about -and fusion surroW1ded the actual vote on inclusion of information about eatingthe subsequent rejection of -a the resolution. disorder support services in du Lac. 
Faculty Senate-initiated resolution 

When the initial 9-6 vote in favor of "By including this information in du rehashed strife that ha..'l plagued the the resolution didn't represent the Lac, studentc; can know about the var­council since the resolutions were 
required two-thirds majority for pas­ious resources available to them both sponsored three weeks ago. sage, Brian O'Donoghue, the student on and off campus," said Luciana 
In a semester that ha,; seen divisive body president and usually non-voting Reali. a student senator. • issues split the council do½TI faculty­CLC chair, voted for the resolution and Kirk said the University has trfod in staff lines, Monday's meeting noted its approval. .recent years to include more resourcn 
stretched past an hour and 45 min­

A review of CLC bylaws indicated information in the handbook but has utes and took the CLC into seemingly that the chair can only vote to break a faced compluint5 from students about familiar territory. 
tie, so O'Donoghue, an obvious propo­the book getting thicker and a lack of The dispute centered around a reso­
nent of the resolution, passed his desire to read it from cover to cover. lution sponsored by professor Stuart gavel to Brooke Norton, student body Amy Szestak, a Hall Presidents · 
Greene of the Faculty Senate. The vice president. making her the chair. Council representative, suggestedproposal deals with academic free­In a second vote, O'Donoghue again making the eating disorder informa­dom for students and calls for the 
voted for the measure, but it failed 9-7 tion more accessible by publishing it printing of the University mission 
-a vote that reflected students and separately from du Lac. She pointed statement in du Lac, Notre Dame's professors in favor ofthe proposal and to sexual assault resource information guide to student life. rectors and administrators in opposi~ made available to the University com­
"With this resolution, we're asking 

tion to it. munity last fall. that the University reaffirm its com­Another resolution sponsored by 
In other CLC news:

m itm ent to academic freedom," Greene and targeting faculty involve­. O'Donoghue said his oflice has cho­Greene said. ment in campus clubs will be up for sen University social space as theBut Bill Kirk, who has voiced W1wa­consideration at the CLC's April 23 topic for the Spring 2001 Board ofvering opposition to recent measures meeting. 
Trustees Report. Student government 
by the senate, again on Monday 

The council unanimously approved 
officials opted not to write the reportexpressed concern. 

a resolution on residence hall access 
on faculty service, tenure and promo­
'Tm saddened that we're again Monday. 
tion. O'Donoghue said the Office of' thetalking about this issue, given our pre­

It calls for universal access by 2003 
President will likely sponsor a studentvious discussions in which I've found 

to dorms for students, rectors and fac­
forum tentatively scheduled for nextthis matter difficult and problematic," 

ulty through the Lene! system, a 
week to garner feedback on the social said Kirk, assistant vice president for 

swipe-access mechanism. Ten dorms 
space issue.
student affairs. "Academic freedom is 

already have the system installed, and 
. Members of the CLC's task force onan issue this community has not yet the resolution proposes each of these du Lac revisions said they looked athad. 

halls to make it available to the Notre 
the handbook over Spring Break toIt is inappropriate to bring it here 

Dame community no later than this 
determine areas they'd like to proposebefore this body right now. "The reso­
fall. 
changes to when the University revis­lution resembled one that was submit­

"We currently have 27 different 
es it this summer. The group has sixted for a CLC vote on March 6. 

access policies. Should this pass, we'd 
student members and has planned
On that date, members rejected one 

have 18 different policies, which is 
weekly Monday meetings to discussofthree academic freedom resolutions 

better than we have now," said Father 
issues that may come under consider­up for a vote, and there was strong 

Dave Scheidler, St. Edward's Hall rec­
ation for revision. 
sentiment that Greene presented what tor. 
Carmen 
-~ -·­

-------------------------, 
ATION 


Tuesday, March 27, 2001 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Six charged in Malawi coup plot: Six people have been arrested on charges ofplotting a coup against Malawi's president. police said Monday. Tht> six have been charged with trea­son and accused of trying to replace President Bakili Muluzi, said Milward Chikwamba. police commissioner for southern Mala·wi. Treason carrif's a neath sentem:e in Malawi, a former British protectorate. 
Saudis ban Pokemon cards: Saudi Arabia has banned Pokemon cards, saying they show symbols associated with Israel and are . harmful to kids. Saudi Arabia's highest religious authority has declared a fatwa, or religious rul­ing. against the cute little characters Japan's l\.intendo has made into a multibillion dollar enterprise that is enormously popular around the world. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Plane skids off taxiway: A Southwest 
Airlines plane with 141 people on board ran 
off a taxiway at Baltimore-Washington 
International Airport Sunday, but no one was 
injured. Plight 459 skidded onto a grassy field 
as it was preparing for takeoff to Nashville. 
airport spokesman John White said. 
Passengers were taken back to the terminal 
and rherked onto another flight to Nashville. 
White said. Technicians were checking the · plane Sunday night for a cause of the skid. 
Nun murdered by monk: A nun was found stabbed and beaten to death in a Miami suburb at the Eastern Orthodox Church school whcrr she lived and worked. and an 18-ycar-old monk confessed to the slaying, polir,e said Monday. Mykhaylo Kofel. a Ukrainian belonging to the Byzantine Monastic Ordi>r of the EastPrn Orthodox Church. was jailed without bail on charges of murder and burglary. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Politicians eye Gary airport: Some of Indiana's top political leaders are trying to land a meeting with a federal official to pitch a plan to r.xpand Gary's little-used airport. The plan, which is backed by Chicago Mayor Hichard Daley. is aimed at reli1wing some of the burden on Chicago's lwo airports. Gov. Frank O'Bannon. Gary Mayor Scott. Indiana's Lwo U.S. senators and others hope to meet with Secretary of Transportation Norm Mineta to discuss the preliminary draft of the Gary-Chicago Airport's master design plan. 
Market watch March 26 

Dow 
9,687.53 + 182.75

Jones 

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -4.32 -0.81 17.88 !NTEL CORP (INTC) -1.74 -0.50 28.31 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) -5.53 -1..01 17.24 NASDAQ 100 SHAR (QQQ) -2. 31 -0.99 41.81 DELL COMPUTER (DELL) -6.37 -1.75 25.69 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
UNITED KINGDOM 

U.S. fighters missing in Scotland 
only a pilot, Bako said. 45 minutes later, said the spokes­
Associated Pre.ss 

A Royal Air Force spokeswoman woman, speaking on condition her 
LONDON said two RAF Nimrod reconnaissance name not be used. 
Two U.S. F-15 fighter jets were planes and three Sea King helicopters With four peaks over more than reported missing Monday over a from Scottish bases were searching 4,000 feet, topped by Ben Macdhui at Scottish mountain range, the U.S. Air the area, helped by two RAF moun­4,296, the Cairngorms are Britain's Force said. tain rescue teams on. the ground. loftiest mountain range. 
The aircraft, on a training flight Grampian police in Aberdeen said Weather in the Cairngorms for most from the U.S. airbase at Lakenheath, they had no reports of any planes of the afternoon has been cold and 75 miles northeast of London, lost coming down. bright with ·good visibility and light contact with ground control whon The Royal Air Force spokeswoman southerly winds, the Meteorological they were over the Cairngorm said the planes left Lakenheath at Office said. But snow and sleet show­Mountains in the Scottish Highlands, around 12.30 p.m. (6:30 a.m. EST) for ers were beginning to develop in the Lakenheath spokeswoman Maj. a three-hour sortie over the Scottish mountains, where temperatures near Stacee Bako said. Highlands. the mountain peaks are about 21 
The F-15C models involved carry They last made radio contact about degrees. 
MACEDONIA 


quiet, NATO Secretary­"Objectives cannot be Tetovo, Macedonia's sec­
Associated Press 

General Lord Robertson met through violent acts," ond-largest city, spraying 
SKOPJE and European Union secu­he said. Robertson and houses with bullets and 
The Macedonian gov­rity affairs chief Javier Solana both held talks forcing the guerrillas to ernment came under Solana arrived in the for­with Macedonian pull back. pressure Monday from mer Yugoslav republic for President Boris Even while saying the NATO and the European talks. Trajkovski. time had come for a polit­Union to Referring to gains made Macedonian forces dug ical effort, Solana and s h o w by the Macedonian army in overnight after piercing Robertson underlined
See Also 

restraint in recent • fighting, rebel lines and retaking NATO and EU support for in its "Troops purge Robertson said on arrival, ground held by ethnic the Skopje government's crack­civilian "They have taken the mil­Albanian insurgents and action. NATO has worried down on itary high ground above vowed that their offensive that the rebel insurgency
community"

ethnic Tetovo, now is the time would continue until the could widen ethnic divi­Albanian page 7 (for the government) to rebels were driven out of sions in Macedonia ­rebels, take the political high the country. whore at least of the quar­signaling ground." The ragtag infantry ter of tho population are 
ricw momentum for a Similarly, Solana, who punched through rebel ethnic Albanians living political solution to end arrived later, told positions in a day of fierce with a Slav majority -and the six-week standoff. reporters, "Now is the batHe Sunday that raged open up a new Balkan 
With the battlegrounds moment for politics." in the hills just outside war. 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 27, 2001 

BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Renner passes leadership 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY 
Assistant News Editor 
The 2000-2001 Board of Governance met fur the last time along with members of the 2001-2002 Board, marking the end of student body president Crissie Renner's term and the beginning of former student body vice prnsident Michelle Nagle's term as president. 
"We encountered some unexpected tur­bulence this year but I think that we [Board of Governance] handled the situa­tions and acted in the best interest of the student body." said Renner. "There's not a doubt in my mind that you ·will continue to serve the student body weU. I'm so glad to see Michelle [Nagle] in this position [student body president) and there is no one I'd rather see in this position." 
Nagle reported to the Board that she and student body vice president Kristin Matha have already begun work to achieve portions of their campaign plat­form. 
One of the ilems she and Matha have begun forging ahead on is the establish­ment of a position for a Holy Cross College representative to sit on the Board. 
"We've been in touch with Holy Cross College about creating a representative position to increase communication between Saint Mary's and Holy Cross and we should have that in place by the start of the next school year," Nagle said. 
On the issue of the negative reaction to fa~ulty to the study day proposal. Nagle said she and Matha have a meeting set this Thursday with Susan Vanek, chair­person of the committee on academic standards, to discuss what options remain. 
In other news: 
. !he Board voted to give a co-sponsor­sh1p o'. $600 to the Senior Leadership Campaign. The goal of the campaign is to encourage seniors to begin giving dona­tions to Saint Mary's. The group sought a co-sponsorship to cover the cost of vari­ous incentives such as free movie rentals to lure seniors to give. 
"The campaign happens every year and the goal of it is to get future alumnae in th~ habit of giving back to Saint Mary's," said Molly Kahn, student representative to the Board of Trustees and member of the Senior Leadership Campaign commit­tee. 
"Saint Mary's has given us so much in ~ur four years here and what we do get for the money we pay to go here is phe­·nomenal." 
. This y~ar, the group is focusing on get­tmg a higher rate of participation from seniors, rather than focusing on the amount raised. 
"We want to have incentives to encour­age people to give and that is why we sought this co-sponsorship," said Kahn. 
. Women's Issues Commissioner Julie Frishkorn reported that after OThe Vagina Monologues" controversy, many people have requested a forum be held to discuss issues surrounding academic frce­dom, censorship, students rights and inclusiveness on campus. 
The Women's Center will sponsor a forum on Wednesday at 7 p.m. The forum will feature two neutral facilitators. 
On Friday from 5:30-7 p.m., there will be an open house for the re-opening of the Women's Center in the basement of LeMans Hall. The newly painted room will also be equipped with a TV, VCR and a variety of new literature. · 
. Student Diversity Board president Akmaral Omarova said Hunger Awa,:eness yveek was a success despite a few bumps in the road." 
"The week went very well and the hunger banquet was a success as was the walk we co-sponsored with the sopho­more class board, but we would have liked more participation overall," said Omarova. 

Final Four tickets on sale 
Special to the Ob•erver 
A limited number of reserved seats for the 2001 Women's Final Four will go on sale to Notre Dame students at 9 a.m. today at the Joyce Center Ticket Office (Gate 1). 
The Women's Final Four will take place Friday and Sunday in the Savvis Center in St. Louis. Tickets for the collegiate basketball tourney are $100 each, which includes the Friday semi-final game and the championship game on Sunday. 

Students wishing to purchase tickets must present a valid student 
I.D. at the ticket window. Students can present a maximum of six student 
I.D.s at the time of pur­
chase. Student tickets will be available from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. today and Wednesday. Beginning Thursday, any unsold student tickets will be sold to those currently on a waiting list held by the ticket office. 
Any questions regard­ing the Women's Final Four ticket sale should be directed to Jim Fraleigh, assistant ath­letic director, at 631­7356. 
CORRECTIONS 
. In the Asian Month article, the reference to the Asian Club was . incorrect. The club is named Pacific Islanders and Asian Club (PAC). Also, the treasurer, 
-Karla Flores. referred to as Caucasian in the article is Mexican• mistakenly identified the Porn Squad as per­formers in Troop ND. The Porn Squad per­formed at the International Festival, not Troop ND's Urban Groove 
The Observer regrets the errors 

American. PAC was not co-sponsored by the Office of Multi-Cultural Affairs and the student diversity board, it was founded by two stu­dents in the 2000 spring semester 
. The front page photo in Monday's Observer 
Recycle 
The Obse~ve~. 
Ifyou were a Notre 
o·ame professor, what would 
l-/ 
,., 
f 
~ ... 
·~ w
~. :j 
'iii,
\\ •'«, "cl .. 
·,
', ~· 
., " 
·:,i-i,;,..>. 
•,. 
'f
h.~'.r-~ 
. 


';· 
~ 
,. 
} 
Depart111,e~tufFinance "Dta
. ··'}j,'f

:...:'n•, our Financial Future So You Can Live Your Dreams" . 1(/J
~--. f 
March 28, 7pm Breen-Phillips Hall 

SPONSORED BY YOUR STUDENT UNION AND BREEN-PHILLIPS HALL 

---~ -­

Tuesday, March 27, 2001 The Observer . NEWS page? 
Former V.A. nurse gets life imprisonment 
Associated Press 
SPRINGFIELD,Mass. A federal jury on Monday decided on life imprisonment for a former veterans hospital nurse who killed four patients by injecting them with a heart stimulant. 
Kristen Gilbert, 33, was spared a sentence of death by injection. She would have become the only woman on federal death row. 
U.S. District Judge Michael Ponsor formalized the jury's rec­ommendation. sentencing Gilbert to four consecutive life terms without the possibility of parole. He also sentenced her to two 20­year terms for trying to kill two other veterans, and to several lessor charges. 
Ponsor could not have over­
ruled the jury to impose the 
death penalty. Before the formal 
sentencing. he allowed some rel­
atives of the victims a last chance 
to speak. 
Claire Jagadowski told the judge of the loss of her husband, ~6-year-old Stanley Jagadowski: "I still listen for his key in the door. Now I have to face old age . alone." 
Gilbert declined an opportunity 
to address the judge. She wept 
softly when the jury's decision 
was reacl. 
Her father and grandmothers 
had pleaded with jurors to let her 
live, saying a death sentence 
would be devastating to them 
and Gilbert's two sons. 
"It's a very bittersweet day 
when you think your daughter is 
going to get life imprisonment 
instead of the death penalty," 
said Gilbert's father, Richard 
Strickland. 
Assistant U.S. Attorney William Welch had called Gilbert a "shell of a human being" who deserved to die for the cold and calculating way she murdered her victims: injecting them with overdoses of the heart stimulant epinephrine, also called adrenaline, causing their hearts to race out of con­trol. 
Prosecutors had argued that she wanted to attract attention, especially from her lover, a hos­pital security guard. for the way she handled ·herself during emer­gencies. 
Gilbert was convicted March 14 of the first-degree murder in the deaths of three veterans. She also was convicted of socond­degree murder, which is not sub­ject to the death penalty, in the death of a fourth veteran, and of trying to kill two other veterans. 
Defense attorneys said a life term in prison was a punishment harsh enough for a young woman convicted on evidence they said was only circumstan­tial. They had argued that the deaths were due to natural caus­es. 
"It is easier to incite good and decent people to kill when their target is not. human but a demon," defense attorney Paul Weinberg said'. "Kristen Gilbert is not a monster, she is a human being." 
Jurors deliberated for less than 
six hours Friday and Monday on 
whether to impose the death 
penalty. Since they were not 
unanimous, the sentence default­
ed to life in prison. 
In the pasl century, only two 
women have been executed by 
the federal government. There is 
no state death penalty in 
Massachusetts, but Gilbert was 
eligible for it under federal laws 
because her crimes took place on 
federal property, the Veterans 
Affairs Medical Center in 
Northampton. 
MACEDONIA 

Troops purge civilian community 
ment spokesman Antonio 
Associated Press 

Milososki said. Police spokesman Stevo
TETOVO 

Pendarovski said the four
Macedonian forces dug in 

civilians were a family ridingovernight after piercing rebel 
in a taxi that entered an area
lines and retaking ground of intense combat. He saidheld by ethnic Albanian 

the army had "captured sev­insurgents, and vowed that eral terrorists."
their offensivA would contin­

While not suggesting all­
ue until the rebels were dri­out victory, Prime Minister ven out of the country. 

Ljubco Georgievski said gov­
The former Yugoslav ernment forces were doing

republic's ragtag infantry 

well. asserting that the thrustpunched through rebel posi­
to "clear the terrain of ter­
tions in a day of fierce battle rorists ... is being carried outSunday that raged in the hills successfully, and already key

just outside Tetovo, 

positions have been taken."
Macedonia's second-largest But the army acknowledgedcity, spraying houses with 

that the rebels, who have tiesbullets and forcing the guer­to ethnic Albanian militantsrillas to pull back. 
in the neighboring Yugoslav
In the most intense fighting province of Kosovo, were for­in six weeks of conflict with 

midable and well-armed
the rebels, 

opponents.
the army Pendarovski

b r o k e ''This is a fight against said a police
through a 

the terrorists, not against vehicle was
roadblock sprayed with

and moved any single ethnic 

machine-guninto the 
community." fire in an
ethnic 

ambush north
Albanian 

of the capital,
village of Nikola Dimitrov 

Skopje,
Gajre, 2 national security advisor 

although the1/2 miles five officersnorthwest 
inside
of Tetovo, setting afire homes escaped injury.
suspecte.d of sheltering "The commanders on the

rebels. Two helicopters ground confirmed that we

strafed the thickly forested are facing an organized ter­

hillsides. 

rorist resistance, including
After taking Gajre, the 

sophisticated weapons, can­troops regrouped and set up 
nons and mortars," Army
po-sitions overlooking Lavee, Col. Blagoja Markovski said

another rebel-held village 
Sunday.
just north of Gajre. The army 

Milososki said Sunday's
said it had also taken Tetovo offensive -which the gov­

Kale, an ancient Turkish 

ernment· had threatened lastfortress cresting a hill that it week to "neutralize and elim­
said had been a rebel strong­inate" the rebels -had gonehold. 

according to plan. "Several
Two soldiers, one police 

terrorists positions have been
officer and four civilians 

taken ... we will go on until 
· tl in'ured ­the final takeover of all ter­rorist positions."Hundreds of refugees streamed across the border into Kosovo early Monday. Many told of Macedonian helicopters fir­

. ing on them as they fled their homes. 
"While walking through the hills, helicopters came above our heads and started firing into the woods which were filled by refugees," said Arif 

AP 
Azemi, 35, after walking for 10 hours to Kosovo with his five children in tow. 
The rebels in Macedonia say their aim is limited to more rights for ethnic Albanians within Macedonia, who are outnumbered by Slavs three to one. The gov­ernment accuses them of seeking independence and drawing on Kosovo for fight­ers and weapons. 
Although ethnic relations with the majority Slavs had been relatively trouble-free, substantial numbers of the ethnic Albanian minority felt they are being treated as sec­ond-class citizens. 
The struggle appears to have radicalized a large seg­ment of Macedonian Albanians. 
"This is a fight against the terrorists, not against any single ethnic community," national security adviser Nikola Dimitrov said in Skopje. 
"We undertook this action 
because the long-term exis­
tence of terrorism here 
endangers the pillars of 
Macedonia's multi-ethni­
cism." 
NEED CASH? 
NEW DONORS EARN $20 TODAY· 
MENTION THIS AD FORA$5.00 BONUS 
Up to $145.00 a
;;;,:~hal::~~ 

lsERA CARE PLASMA 
~~ 234-6010 515 LINCOLNWAY WEST 
~ 

page 8 Tuesday, March 27, 2001 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
The University 
of Notre Dame 
cordially invites you to attend a special evening celebrating the life and ministry of 
Andrea Riccardi 
2000 Notre Dame 
Award Recipient 
Tuesday, March 27, 2001 
7:30plll 
Prayer Service and Award Ceremony 
Hesburgh Center Auditorum Institute for International Peace Studies 



( 
. \ 
• I

! ____. . 
l i ---::-::J _r-··· . I I 
. • i i, l . 
i ' 
i i 
! I,·• ·• 

Riccardi is internationally known as the founder of the Sant' Egidio community, whose mediation was instrumental in the 1992 agreement which brought a fragile peace to Mozambique after 16 years of civil war. Opposed to all forms of . violence, whether legal or illegal, Sant' Egidio community members have attempted to mediate and resolve conflicts in Albania, Angola, Guatemala, Kosovo, Leba­non, Somalia, and most recently, in Burundi. The community, begun 
in 1968 by Riccardi and a few of his classmates, today has 40,000 mem­bers in 60 countries on four continents. 
Tuesday, March 27, 2001 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page9 
Evidence found in Dartmouth Illurders 
. Knives in suspect's house stained with victim's blood 
Associated Press 
CONCORD, N.H. 

Knives found in the bedroom of one of the teen-agers accused of murdering two Dartmouth College professors were stained with blood matching one of the victims, according to court docu­ments released Monday. 
The two knives were found in a box in the bedroom of Robert Tulloch, 17, according to the prosecution documents. 
Tulloch and James Parker, 16, both of Chelsea, Vt., are accused of fatally stabbing Half and Susanne Zantop in the profes­sors' Hanover home on Jan. 27. 
"On one knife, DNA consistent with Susanne Zantop was detected," the documents say. "On the second knife, DNA con­sistent with Susanne Zantop was detected, with a mixture of another source of DNA." The 
'documents do not identify the source of the additional DNA. 
An attorney for Tulloch did not immediately return a call seeking comment, but Doug Brown, a San Diego lawyer who represents the Parker family, said people should not make a judgment about the suspects until the evidence can be tested independently. 
"It's incomprehensible and inconceivable that Jimmy Parker could have had anything to do with this crime," he said. 
"The nature of these docu­ments does not undermine their confidence in the inno­cence of their son." 
A judge released search warrants and other arrest information after prosecutors said they no longer would fight to keep the documents secret. Earlier this month, a judge released documents describing what led police to the suspects, who were arrested last month at an Indiana truck stop. 
Parker bought the two knives over the Internet sev­eral weeks before the killings, the documents say. Investigators have said the boy's fingerprints were on a knife sheath found at the Zantop home. 
Police also concluded that footprints inside and outside the Zantop home matched Tulloch's left boot, the docu­ments said. 
The papers released Monday also say that during a search of Tulloch's home Feb. 16 and Feb. 17, investigators saw "several documents including literature, school essays, and books, including 'Der Fuhrer,' which addressed the topics of Germany, Hitler and the inac­tivity of America during the Holocaust." 
-Police also saw literature "referencing the Ku Klux Klan" and violent computer games. Computers were seized from the homes of both boys. 

FDA probes Acetominophin 
Associated. Press 
WASHINGTON 
Evidence that many Americans may poison their . livers by unwittingly taking toxic doses of acetaminophen has the government consid­ering if consumers need stiffer warnings about the popular over-the-counter painkiller. 
It's not the first time aceta­minophen, best known by the Tylenol brand, has drawn federal concern. There are warnings not to take it if you consume more than three alcoholic drinks, because the combination can poison your liver. 
But the latest worry is about overdoses: taking too much for too long, or mixing the myriad acetaminophen­containing headache, cold/flu and other remedies, or Just popping extra pills. 
Because acetaminophen is nonprescription, people think "it must be safe and they take it like M&Ms," sighs Dr. William Lee of the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center in Dallas. 
Lee's data suggest aceta­minophen overdoses could be a bigger cause of liver failure than some prescription drugs recently banned for liver poi­soning, such as the diabetes medicine Rezulin. 
He tracked more than 300 acute liver failure cases at 22 hospitals and linked 38 per­cent to acetaminophen, ver­sus 18 percent of cases caused by other medications. In a second database track-

Acetaminophen by another name 
Many Americans may be unknowingly overdosing on the drug acetaminophen, best known by the Tylenol brand, according to a recent study. Many over-the-counter drugs contain acetaminophen, which can cause liver damage it taken in heavy doses. Here is a sampling of drugs that contain acetaminophen. 
Prescription medicines Pain relief remedies Tylenol with codeine Aspirin-Free Excedrin Caplets 
Percocet Tylenol Vicodin Anacin-3 Cold and flu remedies Infants' and Children's 
4WayCold medicines Bayer Select Flu Relief Caplets Children's Tylenol Cold Benadryf Cold Dorcol Children's Fever and Pain 
Comtrex Hot Flu Relief Reducer Dristan Cold and Flu Feverall Children's NyQuil Uquicaps Infants' Anacin-3 Robitussin Honey Flu St. Joseph's Aspirin-Free Fever Tylenol Cold and Flu Reducer for Children Vicks Dayquil Liquicaps 7ylenol Children's Elixir 
SOURCES: Complete Guide to Prescription andNonprescription Drugs;
Th0 Physician's Desk Reference 

ing 307 adults suffering severe liver injury -not full-fledged failure -at six hospitals, Lee linked acetaminophen to 35 percent of cases. 
Most were accidents and should have been preventable, Lee contends. 
The findings surprised Food a'nd Drug Administration offi­cials, who this month began investigating how big a risk the painkiller poses and whether Americans need more explicit warnings to use it safely. They even are seeking data from Britain, where so many people used acetaminophen for suicide that British health authorities now restrict how many tablets are sold 0 at once. 
Acetaminophen's liver toxicity "is conspicuous in its magni­tude compared to some of the other bad players we've taken off the market," says Dr. Peter Honig, FDA's postmarketing drug safety chief. "We're look­ing at the dat1t to decide if something has to be done, and what." 
Certainly millions of Americans safely take aceta­minophen every day. Tylenol maker McNeil Consumer Healthcare calls it one of the safest over-the-counter prod­ucts and insists liver failure occurs only with substantial overdoses. 
"This is not a casual, 'Oops, I took an extra pill,"' stresses McNeil vice president Dr. Anthony Temple. 

25% OFF All Fleece Sweatshirts 25% OFF A.11 Long Sleeve T-shirts 25o/o OFF .All Caps 25% OFF A.11 ~otre Dame Imprinted Gifts (Excluding Waterford, Belleek::, Lladro) 503/o OFF All Back Packs 503/o OFF A_ll Clearance 
Sale ends 1'-fari:h 31, 200.Z 


page 10 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, March 27, 2001 
Peace Corps career opportunities await you! 
Business Advisor English Teacher Health Educator 
Agro-Forester 
University of Notre Dame 
Speak with retru:ned Peace Corps volunteers. Find out how to redefine your world in the Peace Corps! 
Information Meeting and Video 
Wednesday, March 28, 2001 6:30-8:00 p.m. 
Welcome to all -especially sophomores and juniors considering the Peace Corps! 


Best Buddies &Badin Hall present. .. 
VY. Tem.pU!/Gv~ 
Designer, Author, Professor with Autism 
Wednesday, March. 28th 7p.m. DeBartolo Hall Room 101 Free Admission. 
Disability Discussion Thursday, March 29th 7p.m. Center for Social Concerns 

http://www.nd.edu/~bbuddies Email: bbuddies@nd.edu 

GERMANY 
Protestors reject nuclear shipment 

Associated Press 
WOERTH 
A train loaded with some 60 

tons of nuclear waste in six 
sealed containers crossed i.nto 
Germany from France late 
Monday, angrily awaited by 
protesters along its route to a 
waste dump. 
The shipment is carrying radioactive waste left over after spent nuclear fuel from German power plants was reprocessed at a French plant. 
Hoping to avert violence, Germany put 15,000 police on alert along the route as the train headed toward its bor­der. About 2,000 officers awaited the train in the bor­der area, and the station at Woerth -where a German locomotive was to be attached -was heavily guarded. 
Protesters were camped out awaiting the train's arrival, and police removed a group of people who earlier blocked the track south of Wuerth. 
In northern Germany, hun­dreds of people took part Monday in sit-down protests on rail tracks near the waste dump. Some 400 were removed by police, and at least 35 more were detained after loosening ties under a 50-yard section of track. Officials said the damage would not affect the ship­ment. 
The political impact was already being felt in Berlin as the train trundled through France earlier in the day. The Greens party faced cries of betrayal from anti-nuclear activists that are among its core supporters. 
Rooted in the anti-nuclear movement, the party now is in the government that approved the first cross-bor­der waste shipment since 1997. 
Anti-nuclear activists said authorities prepared at least nine alternate routes for the transport across Germany to be able to skirt protests. 
Police braced for a repeat of clashes with protesters that accompanied the last ship­ment four years ago. They promised tough action against any blockades by demonstra­tors. 
Especially vulnerable was the final 12-mile stretch from a rail terminal to the waste dump, where trucks will transport the containers ­each with about 10 tons of radioactive waste sealed in 28 glass casks. 
In Valognes, France, a few Greenpeace activists stood watch early Monday as the transport left, firing flares and waving banners against the nearby La Hague repro­cessing plant before being removed by police. 
Anti-nuclear groups say their aim is to drive up the cost of waste shipments and persuade utilities that nuclear plants arc not economical. 
"Every transport from La Hague makes another trans­port to La Hague possible, securing the continued opera­tion of the nuclear power plants," said Rasmus Grobe, a spokesman for a protest group whose symbol, a large yellow X, has appeared on walls and roads across the country. 
German and French leaders agreed on a resumption of nuclear traffic last January, with the German government saying it has tightened safety rules for the transports since the previous administration suspended shipments in 1998 because of radioactive leaks on some containers. 
1ECDC Registration 
The Early Childhood Development Center, located at the 
University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College, is now 
accepting 2001 Summer Registration for children ages 
three through six and 2001-2002 School Year 
Registration for children ages two through five. Both part 
time a.nd full time enrollment schedules are available. For 
more information, please call one of the numbers below. 
Early Childhood Development Center, Inc. 
Please ca.11­
631-3344 or 
.=~-~ 284-4693 
ARGENTINA 

Congress passes recession measure 
. President gains legislative power to tackle economy 
Associated Press 
BUENOS AIRES 
After 15 difficult months in office, Argentina's president won initial approval Monday for special powers to tackle a 33­month-old recession that shows no signs of easing. 
Argentina's lower house voted 151 to 81 in favor of ced­ing some of Congress' lawmak­ing authority to President Fernando de la Rua, part of his request for unilateral-decree powers to help revive the econ­omy. 
House lawmakers were expected to continue debating specific powers line-by-line later Monday before handing the proposal over to the Senate for final consideration. 
De la Rua and Economy Minister Domingo Cavallo have argued that sweeping executive powers are needed to trim taxes, deregulate financial mar­kets, reorganize federal agen­cies and cut red tape in bureau­cracy as cost-saving stimulants to recovery. 
But House deputies were expected to impose limits, deny­ing the president the power to fire public workers, reduce pen­sion benefits or sell state assets. 
"We will end this long reces­sion and we will resolve the problem of fiscal solvency. We product. will create conditions so that The economy's continued ill those who want to will be able health could pose high stakes to invest and work," De la Rua for emerging markets. But as a told Argentina's largest daily, precaution, the International Clarin, before the House Monetary Fund in December debate. led a $40 billion emergency 

Cavallo has said the success package meant as insurance of the government's economic against any Argentine default plan could hinge on whether on debt payments. special Last October, powers are Vice President
"We will end this long 
granted. As Carlos Alvarez envisioned recession and we will quit after sug­by Cavallo, gesting the
resolve the problem of
Congress administration
fiscal solvency." 
would have didn't have the the power political will to to supervise combat an influ­
Fernando de la Rua 
the execu­ence -peddling
Argentinian president
tive branch scandal in the 
o n l y through a committee formed of leaders of the two main parties in Congress. 
Opponents argued that spe­cial powers go beyond the Constitution and pose a threat to the separation of the execu­tive and legislative branches. 
Argentina's economic crisis has trapped South America's second-largest economy in a fog of 14.7 percent unemployment and expanding public debt totaling $120 billion, nearly half the country's gross domestic 
Senate. He was 
the most visible leader of the left-leaning Frepaso movement, the junior partner in the ruling coalition led by De la Rua's centrist Radical party. 
Further political turmoil arose in March when Economy Minister Jose Luis Machinea called it quits after a lackluster performance. 
Successor Ricardo Lopez Murphy lasted less than two weeks, booed out over a harsh proposal of $4.5 billion in new spending cuts. 


DOMUS PROPERTIES HAS A10 BEDROOM HOUSE -4 BATH, 3 KITCHENS 
-BIG COMMON ROOM WITH BAR  
-VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS  
-NEAR OTHER STUDENT HOUSES  
-SECURITY SYSTEM  
-WASHER & DRYER  CONTACT KRAMER  
-HEAT INCLUDED IN RENT  (219) 298-9673 CELL PHONE  
(219) 234-2436 OFFICE  
(219) 674-2572 VOICE MAIL  

ALSO LEASING HOUSES FOR 2002·2003 SCHOOL YEAR 
Tuesday, March 27, 2001 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 11 
Retreat Information 
Sign-up for NOE #66 (April 20-22, 2001) 
Application Deadline extended until this Wednesday 

• 
Pick up applications at I 14 Coleman-Morse Center or 

• 
Print one out online at 


www.nd.edu/ ,-,ministrylndeform.html 
Monday, March 5 through March 30 Sign-up Senior Retreat #6 (April 6-7, 2001) 

• 
Pick up applications at 114 Coleman-Morse Center or 

• 
Print one out online at 


www.nd.edu/ ,-,ministrylseniorform.html 
This Week in Campus Ministry 

Monday-Tuesday, 26-27. 11:30 pm-10:00pm St. Paul's Chapel. Fisher Hall 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Tuesday. March 27. 7:00 p.m. 
~New

114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Campus Bible Study Location! 
Wednesday. March 28. 6:30-7:30 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
RCIA : Rehearsal for Rite ofAcceptance 
Wednesday. March 28. 10:00 p.m. Morrissey Hall Chapel 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Thursday. March 29. 6:30-8:30 p.m. 201 DeBartolo 
RCIA Study Session 
Friday. March 30. 8:00 p.m. 
~New

Morrissey Chapel 
807 -A New Mass on Friday Nights Location! 
Friday-Sunday. March 30-April 1 
Fatima Retreat Center · 
Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #65 
Friday-Saturday, March 30-March 31 
Sacred Heart Parish Center 
Freshman Retreat #35 
Sunday. April 1. 11:45 a.m. 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
RCIAMass 
Sunday. April 1. 1 :30 p.m. 
Zahm Hall Chapel 
Spanish Mass Presider: Rev. Tom Bednar, csc 
Sunday. April 1. 8:00-10::00 p.m. 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
St. Joseph Cathedral Choir Columbus, Ohio 
ne of the best examples of the

0 Fa·1th FAQS
mediation or authority of the 
Church in the New Testament is the Council of Jerusalem. There, in 
approximately the year 50 A. D., the early 

? ( ath O1,· ( fa Ct'
church had to decide one of the most ) important questions in all of church history. Should all Christians i 1 f" ., t h e:-Y J 5 t e. e. I e., c.-J.c... 
have to abide by the Jewish ____._________________. 
religious ritual laws such as 

Apenon'irelatiomhip with Chriit ii always
circumcision? If the Council decided in favor, then all the 

penonal and direct, butthe Catholic Church
Romans and Greeks would effectively have to become Jews 

comiden iUelf amediator between 
first in order to become Christians. By deciding against 

Christiam and Christ. How can thii be~ 

imposing circumcision and the

many dietary and othe~· laws of ...._____________ 
the Old Testament, the Church opened itself to the evangelization of all the ancient world. 
Much of world history was shaped by this one singular decision, found in Acts15. The issue was not left to individual Christians to decide for themselves in their own consciences. The decision was made by the apostles and elders of the church gathered together and drawing on the inspiration of the Holy Spirit and their knowledge of Christ 
• and his teachings. The decision
The church givei mthe scriptures, the iacramenn, was made once and for all, and teachingi, and generatiom of witnenei and their has never been revisited because
Christians recognize the 
testimony to the power of Christ in their livet mediated authority of the 
aposco1ic ministry ofthe Church. This leaves rhe question ofwhether this apostolic ministry continued after the apostles had died. Again, we turn to scripture for evidence ofan ongoing apostolic ministry. Paul, writing to Timothy about his call to ministry, speaks of the "gift of God given through the imposition of my hands." (2Tim 1:6-7) To Tims Paul gives orders to put aright the Church ofCrete by appointing presbyters (antecedent term for priests and bishops). (Titus 
1:5) Besides the scriptural evidence, the writings ofthe early church fathers are unanimous in their understanding ofthe apostolic ministry continuing from generation to generation ·through the laying on of hands. 
One final note, the mediation ofthe church whether through the formation ofteachings or through the ministry of the sacraments 'never replaces or opposes the immediate and personal relationship between a Christian and Christ which is always necessary and is at the heart ofany real conversion. The church is rather the Body of Christ which gives to the individual believer the spiritual resources to enter into that personal relationship. The church gives us the scriptures, the sacraments, teachings, and generations ofwitnesses and their testimony to the power of Christ in their lives. 
Ever wonder why we as Catholics do what we do or believe what we believe? Please send us your questions, comments and suggestions to ministry.1@nd.edu. 

Bible Study 

Campus Bible Study, an interfaith Christian bible 
study group with Fr. Al D 'Alonzo, c.s.c., will resume 
on Tuesday, March 27, 7:00 pm 

in room 114, Coleman-Morse Center. 

Allare welcome. 

Friday Night Mass 


A new Mass on Friday Nights 
Fridays@ 8:00 pm Chapel of Notre Dame Our Mother Coleman-Morse Center ... a great new way to kickoff the weekend. 
{Who are we kidding? It'll really start around 8:07 ... hence the name) 

VIEWPOINT 
page 12 C!BSERVER Tuesday, March 27, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
PO Bo• Q. Nocre Dam~. IN 46556 024 Sourh Dinini; Hall. Notre D.mc, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSIJ\'F-55 MANt.GER Noreen Gillespi~ Rob Woods 
AssT, MANAGING EDITOR Kerry Smith 
News EDITOR: J1son McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Par McElwee Sro.RTS EDITOR: Noah Am,ra<lrer ScLNE EDITOR; Am,md,1 Grcrn SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Mvra McCriff l'IIOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: l'ahvel Chin \VEB ADMINISTRATOR: Ad:im Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan GRAN!ICS EDITOR: Karie McKenna 

CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANACERIGENEAAt. lNFO..........631-7471 FAx........................................................... 631-6927 ADVERTISING.................................631-6900/8840 
observer("'darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF....................................... 631-4542 MANAGING Eonon/AS1>T. ME.... .............631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 
NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. I@nd.edu VIEWPOINT................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu 
SPORTS. ...........................................631-4543 
observer.sports. l@nd.edu SCFNE ....................................... 631-4540 observer.scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARv's............................................. 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO..... . . ........................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://oburver.11d.edu for daily up dares ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as wdl as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
online features for and rates of print ads advertise for policies special campllS cover­
age archives to search for articles published 
about The Obserw,r 
ro meet the editorsafter Augusr 1999 

POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by rhe students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Sainr Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either insrirution. The Observer reserves the righr to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majoriry of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present rhe views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. • 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact inform,1rion. 
Qttrstiow regarding Obserlier policirs sh1J11!d b, di"ct­rd lo Editor i11 CJ,ir/Mike Connolly. 
Wanna play Mario Kart? 
Listen, this is how it goes, and this is how I have accepted it for the past four years. There are two. maybe three types of relationship statuses at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame: 
1. 
You are in a committed rela­tionship, which means that you are basica!Jv mar­ried but do ~10t actually live together. 

2. You are single. 

3. 
(Which is real­ly a subset of 2.) You are single, but you· hook up wher­ever. whenever nnd however you can. 


I promised myself that I would not do this, would not broach this subject. but 1 think it has to be done. I am not going to com­plain about the way things go because it has been done -numerous times. But dating here is just a subject that is huge and time and thought consuming, so why not? 
People, just. accept it. Dating on these campuses sucks. The previous are your three options and that is how it goes. (Although I have heard the legend about a guy going up to a girl whom he barely knew and asking her out to dinner. Just like that. I think, though, that it was really a well-worn myth.) 
Anyhow, I notice that a lot of people seem to misconstrue what. exactly (when it actually happens). a date is. I can honestly say I am not really sure. But I can tell you what a date is not. 
A date is not: -Sitting around, drinking beer, watch­ing movies and then making out. 
-Anything involving Mario Kart, Mario Soccer, Mario Golf, Dream Team 2000, PlayStation or Nintendo 64 in general, beer and then making out. 
-Going to an SYR or formal -and making out. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Blaming tool for the actions of its user 
I would like to address Melissa Beiting's letter yesterday. Throughout the meanderings of her response to Scott Brodfuehrer's column, which admittedly I did not read, Ms. Beiting professes that administrators of schools should not be blamed for the acts of these teens, and perhaps rightly so. Instead, however, she contends that guns (inanimate objects) are to blame. How convenient this argument has become in an age where no one is responsible for his or her actions. 
I contend that the person who commits the crime is responsi­ble. It is a drastic conclusion I realize, in this age of ultra-politi­cal correctness but imagine if we held just those who actually did wrong accountable, no matter how horrendous the crime. I just cannot fathom blaming a tool for the actions of its opera­tor. To the best of my knowledge we do not revere the paint­brush of Michelangelo, but rather the man. 
Perhaps I am too nostalgic, remembering back to the days wh,m my forefathers took up arms against forced tyranny, or maybe I am too aware of the defenselessness that resulted 

These are not dates. I do not care if they do sometimes involve dinner, flow­ers, nice conversations, smooches. whatever. They are not dates! They are make-out sessions with G-rated fore­play. 
It makes me wonder if other colleges across the nation are like this. Arc tho schools in this community so academ­ically based that we lose all concept of socializing with the opposite sex? Are we as students so involved with our studies in order to better ourselves for the real world that the capacity for nor­mal dating is like a 7 4 7 flying right over our heads? Very, very doubtful. 
It is amazing then. to me. that seen the inside of your love people get married after interest's room. then you are graduating from here. !low definitely not elating. And did they manage to meet this last one. though spe­their significant other cific to the Saint Mary's when only three woman, is key: ff "your months back they man" has never made could hardly form a it to this campus. then coherent sentence or you are by no means, talked so much the I am talking absolute­object of their affec­ly not, dating. tion backed away very Dating is definitely quickly'! not a bad thing. I like 
I would like to add in it, a lot of people like here that I am not pin­it, it can be fun. Here is pointing this on the one thing to keep in guys. Girls are just as mind which I think might junky in the dating scene, clear up a lot of confusion let me tell you. Although I for some and maybe even have noticed that we take it to start a campus-wide dating 
the opposite end. We are predomi­nantly the ones who chatter on and on and on, not leaving you any room to talk. And I understand why some guys do not hold up their end of the bargain in a conversation -because there are those girls out there who, after talking to a guy for five minutes, assume that (ha, ha) they are now dating. 
That in mind, I would like to clear something up for anyone guy or girl who feels that way. If I "dated" every guy I have ever had more than a five minute conversation with, then current­ly I would have approximately 3 5 boyfriends. (Hmmmm ... actually, that is 
when Stalin banned private gun ownership, but I cannot accept that guns are responsible for our high crime rates. If an exam­ple of an "uncivilized" country with high gun ownership and low crime were desired I might point to Switzerland. There nearly every household has a firearm, but I don't remember reading about too many school shootings in Switzerland. The fact is that there is no correlation at all between gun owner­ship and crime, and pawning off responsibility for the terrible actions of an individual is only an attempt to justify their actions and thus contribute to the act's repetition. 
Violence does indeed hurt, but displacing the responsibility onto anyone and anything other than the perpetrator neither heals nor helps. 
John Litle sophomore Alumui Hall March 26, 200 I 

something to think about ... maybe then my mom would get off my back about not dating anyone.) 
Kidding aside, dating is a tricky thing. No one wants to be the first one to admit feelings for the other person, for fear of rejection and complete humilia­tion. These can be such strong feelings that it is hard sometimes to tell if you are even dating another person. I would like everyone to take a step back. look at what they think might be considered dating and ask themselves this: Do you only meet in bars or are you intoxicated when you see the other person? Then 
you are not dating. If you have nevnr 

wave. Going out on one date with a person does not mean you have to marry that person. That is the whole point of dating. You get to pick and choose and maybe someday you will get lucky. Never deny yourself the benefit of options. Why do you think they invented 31 Flavors? 
Molly Strzelecki is a senior writing major. She can be e-mailed at strz7359@saintmarys.edu. Her column appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
SCOTT ADAMS

DILBERT 
R/l\TBERT, I THE BAD NEW$ HAVE GOOD 
IS THAT YOUR 
NEWS AND 
OFFICE IS INSIDE 
BAD NB.JS. 
A WHEEL ATTACHED 
TO A GENERATOR. 
\ 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"She's the sort of woman who lives for others -you can always tell the others by their hunted expression." 
C. S. Lewis writer 

VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, March 27, 2001 (jiSERVER page 13 

Migrant Experiences Seminar increases awareness 
Over Spring Break. 15 of my friends and l went to florida. Our destination was, however, unusual. As partici­pants in the Center for Socia.I Concern's Migrant Experiences Seminar. we spent the week in the agricultural town of fmmokalee. studying and living with migrant workers. 
We lived and worked with the work­ers who bring most of the United States its winter tomatoes and oranges. Most of the workers that pick these crops are immigrants from Mexico, Haiti or Guatemala. These workers work hard to keep America fed and are paid sub-poverty wages. Agricultural workers are exempt from most major labor regulations: no ben­efits. union or minimum wage. Their pay is based on how much they pick. Every morning they wait to see if they might be able to get a job in the fields. As the seasons change the workers move to follow the crops. 
During our week in Immokalee we saw many injustices and problems. We saw small. run-down hovels being rented for up to $200 per week. The workers who lived there can count themselves lucky for finding a place to live. I met a 20 year-old immigrant from Guatemala whose month-long journey to the United States had ended only 15 days earlier and she still had found no work. She was sad and lonely, wondering why she came to America; she could have been unemployed in-Guatemala. But most of all, we saw hard working, honest men and women living in squalor, trying to provide for their families and feed America. 
The Catholic Church calls us to live in solidarity with these workers. Pope John Paul II says that we are called "to restore to agricultural [workers] ... their just value ... To proclaim and promote the dignity of all work but especially of agricultural work." (Laborem Exercens, On Human Work, #21, 1981). We, the participants in the migrant experiences seminar, hope that you will join us in a real way that can make a difference. For over 20 years, the price that a worker received for a bucket of tomatoes has remained at 40 cents. Several years ago, a farmworker advocacy group, the Coalition of Immokalee Workers, negotiated a five-cent raise from most major pickers. All except one agreed to this change: Six L's packing compa­ny. Because of Six L's unwillingness to talk about the possibility of increasing their wage, the Coalition is calling for a nation-wide boycott of one of Six Cs major buyers, Taco Bell.. If Taco Bell was to raise the price of a Chalupa one quarter of one cent, they could more than double the wages of the workers. Please join us in standing in solidarity with these workers by attending an informational and orga­nizational meeting at the CSC on Thursday at 7 p.m. Go to the Coalition's website at www.ciw­online.org. And next time you take a bite of tomato or pick up an orange, think of those unappreciated workers who supply us with the bounty of food we rely on everyday. 

Chris Rupar sophomore Keenan Hall March 26, 200 I 

Students address building plan concerns 
Non-union builder inconsistent with school values 

We are writing in direct response to the 
article, "SMC To Hire Non-unionized 
Workers" dated March 23. We're very sur­
prised that Saint Mary's has decided to 
contract with the non-unionized company, 
Majority Builders Inc. 
We question many of the comments made 
by our ptesident's financial advisor, Keith 
Dennis. and are disappointed with the lack 
of the information provided. As Dennis stat­
ed in the article, "four contractors present­
ed proposals that were much higher than 
the product budget." 
What is the projected budget for this pro­
ject? What were the bids of the first four 
contractors? How much higher were they 
than the projected budget? What.is the dif­
ference between the unionized and non­
unionized budget bids? None of th(?se num­
bers were provided in the article. We would 
appreciate and challenge our administra­. tion to provide this information to the larg­
er community. 
Dennis also claims that. "four out of the 
eight subcontractors Majority has chosen 
for the job are unionized." The subcontrac-· 
tors are unfortunately a minority of the 
total workforce building our new mainte­
nance building. 
Aro we requiring Majority Builders to 
only allow workers receiving a living wage 
and health benefits on the job? Did Saint 
Mary's write such pre-qualifications into 
their contract, particularly in light of the 
merit system Ma,jority Builders Inc. works 
within? What exactly are these pre-qualifi­
cations? How exactly do they benefit the 
worker? Again we challenge the Saint 
Mary's administration to answer these con­
cerns. 
Until these questions are answered, we 
do not feel secure endorsing the decision 
the administration has made on our behalf. 
As a Catholic institution who values the dignity of all human beings, the hiring of non-unionized workers is contradictory. Majority Builders Inc. assumes that a living wage is a privilege one earns rather than a basic human right. The company does this through a merit system which awards long term employees with such things as a living wage and health benefits. Beginning employees do not receive such "rewards." 
By contracting with this company, Saint Mary's is contributing to the devaluing of workers. As the article states, this decision was made after months of delib­eration. Saint Mary's, as a lead­ing force in the South Bend com­munity, is set­ting a standard that seems detrimental to the larger com­munity. 
We are sur­prised that a college, who just a year ago signed a Code of Conduct in support of unions on the international level, is undermining union organizing at home. As concerned com­munity members we await our administration's response regard­ing this issue. 
Peacemakers 
Saine Mary's College March 26, 2001 

Unionized workers a Catholic issue 
As a member of the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's and South Bend 
Community, I am deeply troubled by Saint Mary's College's decision 
to contract the construction of a new maintenance facility to 
Majority Builders. Saint Mary's has awarded this project to a com­
pany that has consistently undermined the rights and dignity of its 
workers in paying substandard wages. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's continue to stress an interest in forging strong partnerships with the South Bend Community. However, in choosing Majority Builders, Saint Mary's tacitly endors­
es the exploitation of local workers. Saint Mary's has placed its own economic interest above the interests of the commu­nity and basic human dignity. As Catholics, we have a moral obligation to make economic decisions and investments that enhance economic oppor­tunity, community life and social justice (U.S. Bishops, A Catholic Framework for Economic Life, #9). If we indeed value this community, we must value its work­ing men and women by ensuring that they enjoy a fair wage, safe and healthy working conditions, a right to participate in society and job security. 
It seems reasonable that we consid­er the welfare of our community by patronizing (as we have done in the past) only contractors that honor the fundamental rights and dignity of 
workers and share our concern for bettering the community ... UNION contractors. As our faith tells us, "(Unions) enable workers to make posi­tive and creative contributions to the firm, the community, and the larger society in an organized and cooperative way" (U.S. Bishops, Economic Justice for All, #304, 1986). In making decisions we must demonstrate our commitment to the Gospel and our ethic of service and action for justice. 
Julie Hodek senior Off-Campus March 26, 2001 


ALBUM REVIEW 
Indie rocker Yorn emerges through talent and honesty 
By MAUREEN SMITHE 
Scene Mu~ic Critic 
When 26 year-old Pete Yorn sang at a school talent school, his friends urged him to put down the microphone. Thankfully, he dl()se not to heed the advice nf his friends and moved to California after college to start a band. 
The result is something like a fairy talc -for both Yorn and his listeners. This New Jersey native has the poten­tial to become a big city rocker with Musir.forlhemorningafter. his first major label rnlease. 
The product of many hours spent recording in his garage, the album gen­tly naunts Yorn's introverted style and lyrical creativity With hints of Eddie Vedder and Jeff Buckley in his voice. it is no wonder that "Holling Stone" hails him as one of the ..Next Big Things for 2001." 
Opening with the crackle of a needle on vinyl. Yorn establishes a vintage legitimacy that continues throughout the album. "Life on a Chain" -the song he acoustically sang alone to seal the deal with Columbia -is the first of' many love-inspired songs. "I was alone/ You were just around the corner from me." It is the kind of song you want to listen to in a convertible with the top down and the volume up 
Yorn's ballad writing reaches ils height with "Lose You." "I don't need a better thing/ I 'II settle for less/ It's another thing for me/ l just have to wander this world alone." The mourn­ful love song mood of "Lose You" paired with the quirkiness of "For Nancy" confirms Yorn's diverse musical breadth. 
Yorn takes on a rebel attitude with "Murry," playing with foot-tapping drums and a 
heavier gui­
Musicforthe­
o.-.-,,:i.-. ,((.)!l~lttJ6..1.{• tar tune. "He 
won't follow/
morningafter 
PfTE YQR."'1 ",J,,;1,,t!hM•PP,, ~al:,., His lines are drawn for him/ And he don't want to try." This is one of the more rock­inf used songs on the album. The most lyrically and acoustically 



beautiful song on the album, "EZ," proves Yorn's impressive vocal range. "It was easy when you were younger/ You can put it back together/ It was there if you ever wanted it/ But you closed the door and said goodbye for good." 
The hushed tone in his somber acoustics, including "EZ" and "Simonize," takes the listener on a tour of Yarn's mind, giving his songs meaning beyond the lyric.:s. 

Yorn's Indie good looks and impressive musical talent are enough make any girl fall instantly in love with him. But to make sure he has every female listener drooling, he includes the secret track "A Girl Like You," a love song so simple and honest it will draw tears. "Someday I'll look into her green eyes and know that she'll come with me/ A girl like you/ Too many things I do not care for/ But one thing that I adore/ Is a girl like you." Yorn has star appeal in more ways than one, 
Having contributed to both movie and television soundtracks. Yorn 's dabbling in the Hollywood circuit lends legitirna­cy to his resume. He composed and recorded the score for the movie "Me, Myself and Irene," including the song "Strange Condition" which appears on that soundtrack and on Musicforthemorningafter. The song "Just Another" can also be found on Songs From Dawson's Creek Volume 2. 
It is hard not to like Pete Yorn. His guy-next-door attitude and honest will­ingness to speak his truth present a unique appeal. Listen to this bit of advice and follow it: buy this CD. 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Old 97's succeeds by breaching musical boundaries 
guaranteed to stick in your head -"a bird in a hand is worth a bird in a cage is worth a bird on a telephone wire." 
Singer/songwriter Miller's mastery of the quirky, quipping one-liner winks at the listener from every song. The sly Casanova of "Hollerskate Skinny" asks his girl. "Do you wanna meet up at the Picwood Bowl/ We can knock nine down and leave one in the hole." But Miller's real talent is condensing the frustrations and celebrations of love into a few brief verses. In "What I Wouldn't Do," he agonizes 'Tm in love with you but I kill myself trying to figure out how to do it/ You're on a pedestal/ I'm on the edge of a shelf." And in one of the album's shortest and sweetest tracks, Miller describes the moment of popping the question: "Someday somebody's gonna ask you/ A question that you should say yes to/ Once in your life." Not the sugary fluff of boy bands, but lyrics that are refreshing and simple. 
Miller's poetic talent aside, the best part ol'-the 
album is the true Old 97's sound. their unique blend of country rock. "Up The Devil's Pay" is 
a perfect 
example h_ow many pop bands can begin a melancholy love song with yodel­ing? While Satellite Rides is full of the twang or steel guitars and Miller's coun­try singer-like wail, this


By LAURA KELLY Scene Music Critic 
If the Old 97's arc trying to define themselves with a sing!~ album, the eclectic Satellite Hides has aecomplislrnd exactly what they wanted. 
Tlwir country/rock/British Invasion/pop sound bounces on every track, shirting styles and dynam­ics evnn within the songs themselves, From first lis­ten. it's clear the four boys from Dallas are playing more smoothly than ever, and stilt managing to keep their tunes to the quick radio-length bites that have become their signature. 
Several trucks on Satellite Rides leap out as instant singles, more traditional rock or pop songs that could become fast favorites. "King of All The World" is a happy, sing-along tune, with some of Hlrntt Miller and Ken Bethea's hardest guitar work. The catchy "Bird in A Cage" has a jumpy beat from Philip Peeples on the drums and a refrain that's 
Never a band to play by industry standards, the Old 97's have once again written a poetic and newest energetic album that defies classification with Satellite Rides. release still 
has a definite rock edge. The guitar 
entrance  on  
"Book  of  
Poems"  is  

reminiscent of an AC/DC rock ballad open­-ing, but the song then slips in a Cure-like energy. "Weightless" shows the band's spacey side, a sl(?W, trippy song with lyrics like "I reckon heaven is a place where time is non­existent yeah/ and the things that are important. yeah/ don't take any time 
Satellite Rides 


at all." 

Ironically, Satellite Rides sounds like a greatest hits album from this relatively young bar band. Every style and mood the group has tried is featured here, from mournful country western to dark alternative rock to pure bouncy pop. Miller presents some or his best song-writing, and the group's energy on every track reveals an experienced sound. 
The addition of a bonus CD that includes six live tracks, including a strong version of the cult favorite "19," makes Satellite Rides a must-have for Old 97's fans. 


Tuesday, March 27, 2001 page 15 
SPECIAL FEATURE 
G. Love and Special Sauce serve up a treat at ND 
By THvl BODONY Scene Music Critic 
The novelty of commending a band ur performer that blends seemingly disparate styles has worn off by now. Such a process is practically as cild as music itself. A truly unique artist nowa­days would be one that is easily classifiable, drawing influence solely from one genre. and never leaving the confines of that genre in his or her own music. 
G. Love and Special Sauce is not one of these artists, yet the Philadelphia band still manages to forge its own distinct sound that is ulti­
recording studio. As usual. G. Love and Special Sauce throw all sorts of ingredients into their pot: rap, reggae, rock, blues and more, producing a robust and booty-shaking concoction in which no one ingredient pre­dominates over the others. 
Like most entrees, the flavor of this band comes from the sauce -the Special Sauce that is. Consisting of Jimi Jazz Prescott on the upright bass and Jeff "The Houseman" Clemens on drums, Special Sauce drives the music from beneath. 
On each of the band's five major label releases, Prescott and Clemens have consistently 
put forth the 

mately greater than the sum of its  "When people tell me that my music has gotten  type of subtle rhythmic maneuvers  
parts.  more mature, I always  · that  make  
G. Love has also made his affinity for cooking well  say that I write songs about my life, which is everything from God to  jazz freaks scream with ecstasy. On stage, they  
known to his fans in a num­ just hanging out.,,  command less attention than  
ber of tasty songs like  G. Love  their more picturesque  
"Recipe,"  and flamboy­ 

"Cold Beverage" and "Baby's Got ant front man, but their ability to Sauce." He has even produced a lay down one thick groove after 30-minute instructional video another is undeniable. called "Cookin' with G.," which One certainly cannot overlook follows Chef G. through the the contributions of G. Love entire culinary process, from the when trying to dissect the band's shopping to the desert. distinct sound. His guitar playing 
And now he is ready to serve is noticeably street-schooled, up "The Electric Mile," the latest where chord charts are discard­creation of his other kitchen, the ed in favor of trial and error belief that "It would be so nice. but the world's not ready," given that the powers-that-be "Don't want it in their government/ they don't want it in their poli-tricks." With an unstoppable up-tempo reggae beat propelling it along, the song still manages to inspire more dancing than pondering. 

G. Love displays his passions for women in almost equal pro­portions; this is how a man named Garret Dutton earns the title of G. Love. The love flows on "Sarah's Song," a countrified back porch ode to pastoral and feminine beauty featuring some inspired harmonica playing from 
G. Love, and on the following track, "100 Magic Rings." 
But to make The Electric Mile's most memorable musical and lyrical statement, "Parasite," G. Love shifts into his street preacher mode. On top of a low-fl hip-hop beat, G. Love graphically conveys the view from the bottom, picking up right where "This Ain't Living" left off. In that song, guest rap­per Jasper lamented: "Once I start gaining, the taxes start tak­ing/ 'cause the goverpment's perfected funk fakin'." Now Jasper, entering the mix with a line from Bob Marley's "Burnin' and Lootin'," is back to report that nothing has changed. 

"It was just time," G. Love said about the decision to record with Jasper again. "He has such a vocal presence, and he totally took the song to another level." 
He says the same thing about John Medeski, who contributed keyboard parts to about half of the songs on Electric Mile. His presence helps to give the album a spacier and more layered feel than any of the band's previous recordings, in which studio pro­duction had never been a partic­ular priority. The more polished production and ongincering on "Philadelphonic" and "The Electric Mile" is something of which G. Love is proud. 
"I was listening to some of our previous records the other day." he said, "and I realized how far we've come in terms of produc­tion. Coast to Coast Motel Lthe band's second album] had no production, which was a mis­take. Yeah, It's That Easy was not well produced, but Philadelphonic had production coming together more." 
G. Love credits live sound tech­nician Chris DiBeneditto with helping the band get all the sounds they wanted, which on Electric Miles ranges .from trippy guitar and synth effects to crys­tal-clear drums and bass. 
"But ultimately," G. Love admits, "no one has been able to figure out how to produce us but us. We're the ones that have to do it." 
The presence of new material inevitably begs the question of how to treat the classic older tracks that have become cult favorites. G. Love was character­istically cool when asked if he would rather push newer mater­ial as his trademark, to avoid being known simply as "the guy that did 'Cold Beverage' and 'Baby's Got Sauce'." 
"I feel the newest stuff the most," he admitted. "but we play songs from all our records. We realize that 'Cold Beverage' and 'Sauce' are really popular, but we still don't play those songs every night. You got to mix it up." 
And of course, a conversation with G. Love about an upcoming concert at Notre Dame could not be complete without some dis­cussion about the 2001 NCAA basketball tournament. 
'Tm sorry about the NCAA," he said at the beginning of the interview, obvfously referring to men's team second round exit. "We have a pool going on the tour bus, and I picked Notre Dame to do exactly what they did. But I forgot that I had picked Ole Miss, so I was still cheering for you guys during •the game." 
To thank him for the love. be sure to catch G. Love and Special Sauce this Friday at Stepan. 
To learn more about G. Love and Special Sauce, check out its Web site at www.philadelphon­ic.com. 

methods of moving fingers around the fretboard until iL sounds good. IIis vocal stylings, all too reminiscent of Fenster in "The Usual Suspects," are fluid and seductive, if not totally com­prehensible. 
Regarding the band's discog­raphy. it would appear at first glance that G. Love has gone through a gradual process of maturation. Eight years ago he pronounced himself "the Kool­Aid Kid" who must have his bev­erages refrigerated before he consumes them. He proceeded to tackle larger issues on 1997's "Yeah H's That Easy," including a tribute to a fallen Philadelphia police officer. On 1999's "Phila­delphonic," G. Love ventured into the realm of spirituality, pulling quotes from Baird T. Spalding's "Life and Teaching of The Masters of the Far East" in the song "Numbers." But truth­fully, G. Love has always put forth both silliness and serious­ness in his songs, a point he makes quite adamantly. 
"I've always written all those types of songs, and some of my earliest songs have had an important social message," insisted G. Love in a recent phone interview. "Some of the first songs I ever wrote, like 'This Ain't Living' and 'Eyes Have Miles' [both from the 1994 self-titled debut record]. have dealt with serious issues. When people tell me that my music has gotten more mature, I always 
say that I 
write songs 
about my 
life, which is 
everything 
from God to 
just hanging 
out."The 
Electric Mile 
follows this 
rule com­
pletely. 
G. Love again dis­plays his passion for interracial understand­ings in songs such as "Unified," "Praise Up" and "Free At Last." But a dose of real­ism has now tempered G. Love's pre­dominantly optimistic view on the prospects for 

Touring in support of its latest album, The Electric Mile, G. Love and Special Sauce unity. "Unified"
will perfonn at the Stepan Center this Friday. If the show in any way reflects the quali­
concedes his

ty of the album, fans can expect an up-beat, energetic and passionate performance. 

Monday, March 26, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 16 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Taurasi sends UConn to face Notre Dame in Final Four 
pulled on their regional cham­cent. the game, she was ready to "I can't imagine a better way
Associated Pre5S 
pionship caps at midcourt to "I thought if we could keep it play. She provided a huge to end a career," Stiles said. begin singing -what else? -close to the 10-minute mark spark for us. Thank God she Southwest Missouri StatePITTSBURGH 
"Who Let the Dogs Out?" we had a chance to pull an was there in the first half (29-5) will play Purdue in theLose a star, plug in another. 
The Huskies have won 15 in upset -it would have been a because I sure wasn't." semifinals Friday night in St.
Win a championship, go after 

a row even while losing stars great upset -because they do Douglas, 3-for-13 from the Louis, just a 31/2-hour drive
another. The years and play­
Svetlana Abrosimova and Shea have a short bench," said field, finished with 19 points from the Lady Bears' ers may change, yet it almost Ralph to season-ending Barmore, whose team had after scoring only two in the Springfield campus.
wouldn't be a women's Final 

injuries. Ralph dressed in her won 19 in a row. first half, Cooper added 16 Stiles scored 32 pointsFour without Connecticut. 
UConn warmup suit Monday, and Shereka Wright 14. despite sitting out 41/2 min­
Diana Taurasi, a freshman 

often leaping off the bench to Shalicia Hurns had 1 0 points utes early in the second half
who didn't even start until Purdue 88, Xavier 78

yell encouragment or offer and 12 rebounds. and fouling out with 3:25 to
UConn lost its two returning Katie Douglas, Kelly Komara
advice. "None of their players sur­play. As she left the court, she
All-Americans, dominated and Camille Cooper are going
"We're going back to the prised us," Xavier coach drew a standing ovation from
with her scoring and court back to the Final Four.
Final Four and that's hard to Melanie Balcomb said. "This is the capacity crowd of just
savvy as the Huskies rolled Xavier's remarkable postsea­
do," said Bird, who had nine an excellent Purdue team. under 11,000, nearly all of
into the women's semifinals son ride is over.
points and five rebounds. "I They're great players. They're them Washington fans. 
again with a 67-48 victory Komara played a superb
think a lot of people didn't All-Americans. They're a Final The 5-foot-8 dynamo -the 
over Louisiana Tech on game filling in for injured
believe we could do it when Four team. I expected them to leading scorer in women's
Monday night. point guard Erika Valek and 
we lost our two All­do everything they did well. NCAA Division I history -led
This will be UConn's fifth Douglas hit two critical 3­

Americans.'' We were just trying to stop the Lady Bears to their second
trip to the Final Four under pointers while battling
This Eastern Regional final some of it." Final Four and first since
coach Geno Auriemma since through an off night shooting
was supposed to be closer -Taru Tuukkanen led Xavier 1992.
1991. It bas won national titles as Purdue beat Xavier to win
much closer -than UConn's with 23 points. Nicole Stiles scored 73 points in her
in 1995 and last season. the Mideast Regional. 
71-55 victory in Ruston, La., Levandusky had 19 points and two games in Spokane to
Taurasi, who combines the Douglas. Komara and Cooper

hut i.t wasn't, not wjth Taurasi 10 rebounds for the become the first woman to top
discipline that Auriemma all played on Purdue's 1999
knocking down 3-pointers, Musketeers, whose NCAA 1,000 in a season in Division I.
demands with a sleek game national championship team.
making beautiful entry passes tournament record before this She isn't the only blonde,
polished on the Los Angeles They still have a chance to win
for layups and shutting down season had been 1-3. ponytailed big-time sharp­
playgrounds, had 17 points, 10 another.
Tech off-guard Brooke Purdue becomes the first shooter for SMS. Mitchem
rebounds and four assists The Boilermakers (30-6) will
Lassiter. school to reach the Final Four scored 23 points on 7-for-7
Monday as the second game of play the West Regional win­
Lassiter had 19 points in under three different coaches. shooting, three of them 3­
the season between the long­ner. Southwest Missouri State,
Saturday's 78-67 victory over Lin Dunn took the pointers, and was 6-for-6 on
time women's powers turned in the national semifinals
Missouri but was limited to Boilermakers in 1994 and free throws.
into a romp. Friday night in St. Louis. 
seven points on three shots Carolyn Peck guided them to "I can't say enough about my
"I don't know, I've never got­Xavier (31-3) had become

and three rebounds, rarely their title in 1999. teammates," Stiles said. "They
ten nervous," said Taurasi, the one of the darlings of the
getting an open look or an This trip is coming under really stepped up and hit big
nation's top high school player NCM tournament after upset­
open lane to the basket. Kristy Curry, in her second shots." 
a year ago. 'Tm just out there ting Tennessee, the No. 1 seed
"Connecticut just plays this season as coach. Southwest Missouri State
playing with four other girls, overall, 80-65, in Saturday's
game a little better than we do "We're not talking about just shot 63 percent from the field
playing carefree. regional semifinals.
now," coach Leon Barmore going to the Final Four," Curry (35-for-56), including 8-for-15
"When I was growing up, I But the Musketeers couldn't

said. "The question all season said. "We want to win. We've on 3-pointers in its biggest
never played with girls -they keep the magic going and saw 
was where the scoring would got some unfinished business." offensive game of the season.
used to whine all the time -their 21-game winning streak, 
come from. Our strength is our Erika Rante added 16 points
so I'd just go to the playground the nation's longest, come to
inside game, and we went and 11 rebounds for the Lady
and play with the guys." an end.
there and we went there, but SW Missouri State 104, Bears. Loree Payne scored 17
"She's really come out of her Komara, named the region­

defensively they just pushed us Washington 87 for Washington (22-10),
shell during this tournament al 's outstanding player, was
off the ball." She wowed them in the including three 3-pointers.
and I love her for it because forced to move from shooting
Takeisha Lewis, who had 27 Kellie O'Neill added 14, while
she's gotten us back to the guard to the point after Valek West. Now Jackie Stiles is 
points and 1 7 rebounds Megan Franza, Andrea Lalum
Final Four," teammate Swin tore the anterior cruciate liga­headed back' to Missouri to the 
Saturday, also was a non-fac­and LeAnn Sheets each scored
biggest stage of all. 
Cash said of Taurasi, who has ment in her right knee in the 
tor against UConn's relentless With a lot of help from her 12.
started only a third of UConn's Boilermakers' victory over
man-to-man defense, finishing friends -especially Tara Southwest Missouri State is
games yet was chosen as the Texas Tech on Saturday.
with seven points on 3-of-15 Mitchem -Stiles brought the only Final Four team that
outstanding player in ·the Big She responded with 20 
East tournament and the shooting and only four points on 6~for-12 shooting, Southwest Missouri State to St. didn't play its first two tourna­rebounds.
regional. five assists and four steals. Louis and the women's Final ment games at home. SMS 
The Lady Techsters' inability beat Rutgers in Piscataway,
At the end of the game, "Kelly Komara was huge for Four with a victory over 
to get its stars open shots led Washington in the West N.J., before traveling cross­
UConn's Sue Bird leaped excit­us tonight," Douglas said.
them to shoot only 28.6 per-Regional final. country to Spokane.
edly in the air and the Huskies "Just talking to Kelly before 
The Observer accepts classifieds eve,y business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
JOB OPPORTUNITY Indiana Catholic couple with huge 2 BR HOUSE PERFECT FOR SIN-Need a dress lor upcoming Four ND familles looking for ere-hearts wishing to adopt a child. We GLE/COUPLE $300/MO. Dave 291-SYR's/Formals?? I'm selling sever-LOST AND FOUND alive tutor to instruct grade school can provide your baby with lots of 2209 FOR SALE al formal dresses that have only 
childrn in home setting. Ed. Degree love and a secure, stable lite. been worn once. Call 284-4446 for Lost not req. Normal school calendar Reasonable expenses will be paid. 2-4 PERSON HOUSE FOR RENT. SPRING BREAK-DOWNTOWN info. A black carry•on bag at Main Circle Hours 8·12 Mon. -Thurs. For more info, please call Rebecca NEWLY RENOVATED. THREE CHICAGO! on Thursday (3122) between 8 p.m. Call 254-9466 re Larry &Kathy: toll-free 1-866-30· BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. $22-25/night-Hostelling lnt'I $2 OFF Unique Notre Dame Football and midnight. If found or have any ADOPT WJTHAD College Painting info on its whereabouts, please CHILDCARE NEEDED: ND prof CALL 219-298-3800. 312/360-0300 or 15 FT. 5 in X 4 FT 7 in. Pictured: contact needs childcare in home T·Th www.higbicagQ.Qrg The Gipp, Knute Rockne, Ara, Pablo at x1755 mornings, ideally 9-2 but at least 9-3 Houses still available for 2001-02. Devine, Holtz, Leahy, 4 horsemen 
1. Three great kids. 5.3. 1. Large FOR RENT 5-6 BR. Furnished, WID, prime PHONE CARDS wlnames on horseback, Fathers comfortable home 1 mile from cam-loc.ations, 233-9947 Greg. $20: Joyce and Hesburgh, Touchdown WANTED pus. Own transportation required. 3-6 bedroom homes furn. Near 2601 MIN WITH 49 CENT SUR-Jesus, Golden Dome, Stadium, 
campus 2001I02&summer New home Fall 2001. This 3+ bdrm, CHARGE Holtz coming out of tunnel with Fraternities'Sororities Please call 272-6306 3 bath home Is close to campus or team, Dates of all championships, Clubs'Student Groups 631-3654 days, with features like fireplace, cathe-$20 Call 219-784-2104 Earn $1,000-$2,000 this semester 289·3865 evenings or email meiss-HOUSES FOR RENT: 1)4-br dral ceilings, family room, deluze 362 MIN WITH NO FEES PICTURED ON with the easy ner.1 @nd.edu $700/month 2)3-br. $600/month appliances, 24x30 garage. WE:6MASTE;B@BLU1;81'JO­Campusfundraiser.com three hour We'll make almost any changes to $1400/mo. Call 219-232-4527 or 634-1146 CLAUDIA GQLD QQ lundraising event. No sales LOSE WEIGHT' EAT WHAT YOU the houses. Call Bill at 675-0776 616-683-5038 634-~210 SARA 
re'1uired. Fundraislng dates are 1111-LIKE! ing quickly, so call today! WEIGHT WATCHERS ON CAM· Furnished condos available for blue Nice 3-bdrm, H/2 bath Beautiful brass bed, queen size, PERSONAL PUS SERVICE and gold game. Ivy residential TrHevel, family room, fireplace, with orthopedic mattress set and 
(219) 273-4896 fenced backyard, 2-car garage. deluxe frame. All new, never used, Break glass in emergency -eight Contact Campusfundraiser.com at Your super-convenient dream diet $99S/mo. stlll in plastic. $235 more weeks and we can break the 
(888) 923-3238, or visit www.cam-from a name you trust Is coming to 4-BR HOUSEi CENTRAL AIR SEC Call-219·232-4527 or 219-862·2082 glass in celebration 121.1:zhmdllli~1a::r,.;11rn Notre Dame! No complicated count-SYS ETC. $600/MONTH. 616683-5038 
ingl Eat pizza, cookies, fast food -291-2209 Spring Break Appetizer B-Two -you should really stop sell-Early childhood substitute teachers any food you crave and lose weight. MaQQS!!ll Q]i!;h1a . sl,Q[Q 3-bdrm home 2 btcks from campus Mexican Blankets from $12.95 + ing drugs and do your school work needed for area childhood centers Get Info-packed booklets, tons of Fall 01. 273-1566 S&H instead. for a lour-week period. super-easy recipes, samples of Bed and Breakfast for ND and SMC Mexiconnection. com Informational meeting Wednesday, your great snack bars and special-graduation TOWN HOUSE AT TURL TLE Lauren -WELCOME BACKll!I! March 28, 9 a.m. charles martin ized online support from trained 3 miles from ND CREEK FOR RENT, 2 bedroom, 2 Europe $199 one way. I missed youlll And I know you youth center, lower level, IUSB Weight Watchers staff. You pay just 2 rooms left bathroom, new ktchen and bath· Mexico/Caribbean or Central missed South Bend snow room,914 Lincolnway West, South $59 for 5 weeks. Summer is just 287-4545 room furniture. Great location on America $250 round trip + tax. Bend, IN around the comer -register today Rally-in-the-Alley. Sama price Other worldwide destinations Kendall -get the rocks ready for 
over the phone: 3-5 bedroom homes offered as Turtle Creek Office, cheap. II you can beat these prices Renee. I think she's gonna need 
Need babysitter, pref. Early ed close to campus looking for sub-lease. start your own darn airline! Book them this week. major, own trans. 2-yr.-old by 1-800-572-5727. Visa, MasterCard, 232-2595 tickets online www.airtech,com or Martins 272-1205 and Discover Accepted mmmrentals@aol.com Call 315-1929. (877) AIRTECH Ralph is my hero! 

Tuesday, March 27, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL
lJ?STUDENT TICKET 

11? I S I C Rhode Island welcomes Baron 
SUB's full of surprises this week! 
Bobby Knights coming to Stepan center tonight at 7:00!  
G.Love & the Special Sauce this Friday! Samples tickets (for concert Thursday, April 5) go on sale at La Fortune info desk this week.  SUB movies: Vertical Limit Remember the Titans  

[i?HOSTEL CARD [!?BACKPACK [}?PASSPORT [i? EURA I LPASS 
,ou I\Rt so 
Qf.l\Ol. fOR tUROPt. 

[ilffllllTravel '"----­
AMER I cA • s LEADER IN STUDENT TRAVEL 
1-800-2COUNCIL 
OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK 

WWW.COUNCILTRA\IEL.COM 

struggling teams, took over the
Associated Press 

Rhode Island program Monday. He replaced JerrySOUTH KINGSTOWN, R.I. 
DeGregorio, who resigned after
Jim Baron, the former St. 

the season with a 12-48 record, Bonaventure basketball coach the worst two-year stretch inwith a reputation for rebuilding school history. 
Attention: ND, SMC, HCC Students, Faculty, and Staff 
~ 
5• 
SIGNUPS 

Monday, March 19-Wednesday, March 28 Cost: $15 
WHEN and WHERE: 11:00-2:00 pm and 5:00-8:00 pm 1ST FLOOR LAFUN BY ELEVATOR 
Check out-our website and sponsors: 
www.nd.edu/~bkstr/ 
"I knew it would be a chal­
lenge, but I've been through it 
before," Baron said. 
The 49-year-old Baron has a 
206-202 record in 14 years as a 
coach. He took over the strug­
gling St. Bonaventure program 
in 1991 and took the Boonies to 
the NCAA tournament two 
years ago. His team was 18-12 
this season, earning an NIT 
berth. 
In 1995, Baron was voted 
Atlantic 10 coach of the year for 
guiding the Boonies to their first 
postseason berth in 12 years. 
Athletic director Ron Petro 
said Rhode Island needed some­
one with a track record of 
recruiting quality student ath­
letes and of turning around 
teams. 
"He will make an immediate . impact on our program," Petro 
said. "He is a well-respected 
coach and disciplinarian and 
well-liked by his peers." 
Baron has his work cut out for 
him -the Rams are recovering 
from academic suspensions, 
injuries and a 9-23 season. 
Baron said he considered 
bringing some of his assistants 
to Rhode Island, but he hasn't 
made any decisions yet. 
The athletic department said 
Baron will be paid a base salary 
of $150,000. He may earn 
added compensation through 
attendance incentives and 
bonuses that are part of the 
five-year contract. 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, March 26, 200 I 
NFL NBA 
Owners want to end taunting on all levels 
Associated Press 
PALM DESERT, Calif. 

Football's elders will speak symbolically this week to every kid playing football -profes­sional. college and high school. 
Taunt no more, they will say. Don't wag your finger in an opponent's face, don't stomp on him or spike a ball near him. That's 15 yards and, probably, a fine. 
"High school coaches are saying, 'You represent the 
e

highest level "High school coaches are 
teams are

of the game 
saying, 'You represent fired up and

and whatever 
you let take the highest level of the when they 
hit there's a

place on game and whatever you 
lot of emo­

Sunday, our 
let take place on Sunday tion that can 

guys are 
doing it on our guys are doing it on lead to scuf­
fling," he

Monday,"' Monday." 
said.

Minnesota 
"This year, 

coach Dennis 
Dennis Green the officials

Green said 
will throw

Monday as Minnesota coach 
the league's rules-making competition committee official­ly announced it will crack down on the taunting that's become prevalent in NFL games. · 
That and a rule banning the wearing of bandanas under helmets were among the items approved by the committee and to be voted on later this week at the annual spring owners' meeting, which this year is more like the meeting of coaches, general managers and other team officials. 
That's because 11 of the 31 owners aren't present. 
One theory is they stayed away for fear of being subpoe­naed to testify at the $1 billion suit filed by the Oakland Raiders against the NFL, which is currently taking place in Los Angeles. Many of those missing -Wellington Mara of the New York Giants, Robert Kraft of New England and Tom Benson of New Orleans, to name three -are normally heavily involved in committee matters. 
Commissioner Paul Tagliabue flatly said the trial had nothing to do with the absences. 
"This is the fifth meeting in five months," he said. "We've gotten a lot of our business done." 
But Hobert Tisch, co-owner of the Giants, said the trial was one of the factors that kept Mara home. "lie didn't want to spend his time worrying about someone serving him," Tisch said of his partner, whose son John, the team's vice presi­dent, is representing him. 
That makes the competition committee the focus of the activity. 
It has been discussing realignment, which won't be decided on until late May ­just before the June 1 deadline for reshaping the league for the 2002 season, when Houston will rejoin as the 32nd team. 
It also hopes to extend instant replay, which has always been voted in (or out) on a one-year basis, for three more years. "That will be very close," said Tampa Bay gener­
al manager Rich McKay, co-committee, which voted 7-0 with one abstention (Indianapolis president Bill Polian) to extend replay three years. 
Both said that if the three­year extension fails to get the 24 votes needed, they will revert to one year. 
Then there is the taunting and scuffling issue. 
Tagliabue said it most often happens early in the game, most often on the kickoff or 
one of the 
early plays. 
" T h 
flags early 
in the first 
preseason game, throw them 
in the regular season and 
throw them until it stops." 
The players guilty of 
unsportsmanlike conduct are 
also subject to fines, although 
the fines won't be substantially 
increased from previous years. 
"One fine is all it takes," 
McKay said. "They normally 
don't do it again," 
The ban on bandanas could be more sensitive because a large majority of the players who wear them are black. A · few years ago, according to league sources, banning them was brought up by Gene Washington, the league disci­plinarian, but was shot down 
by Tagliabue. 
But Green, who like 
Washington is black, said he 
had banned bandanas on his 
team with little protest. 
"We have a uniform code 
and the uniforms are supposed 
to be the same," he said. 'That 
includes what you wear on 
your head." 


Two teams request move to Memphis 
Associated Press 
MEMPHIS, Tenn. 
Faster than you can say 
barbecue and Elvis, 
Memphis has gone from no 
NBA teams to having two 
franchises that have applied 
to move there. 
After three decades of 
searching for big-time pro 
sports, the city learned 
Monday it could be the new 
home of the Vancouver 
Grizzlies or Charlotte 
Hornets. 
"Memphis' best days are 
ahead of it, and this is 
another step in that evolu­
tionary process," Mayor 
W.W. Herenton said. 
The Grizzlies and Hornets both asked the NBA for per­mission to relocate to Memphis, effective next sea­son. _ 
Each team said it would play in The Pyramid, a $65 million arena opened in 1991, until a new stadium costing up to $250 million could be built. 
• The Pyramid seats 19,000 for basketball. 
Grizzlies owner Michael 
Heisley passed on Louisville, 
Ky., Anaheim, Calif., and 
New Orleans in choosing 
Memphis, which would be 
the NBA's smallest market. 
The Hornets, meanwhile, 
want the option to move in 
case Charlotte voters reject 
a new $215 million down­
town arena in a referendum 
in June, co-owner Ray 
Wooldridge said. 
Wooldridge has said he 
wants to keep his team in 
Charlotte but that it needs a 
backup plan if the voters 
oppose a new stadium. 
Monday was the NBA dead­
line for teams to apply to 
move. 
Financing for a new Memphis arena still is unset­tled, but much of it would come from state and local government, through tax breaks and construction bonds. As now proposed, no referendum would be required, though the city ures. He also said any talk council and county commis­about a new team name is sion will have a say in the premature. process. The Hornets say they need 

"There are a number of a new arena to be profitable. details and intricate negotia­Wooldridge told The tions that will take place in Charlotte Observer the team the ensuing months. I hope could lose as much as $40 Memphians will have an million next season if he did open mind," Herenton said. not apply for relocation and, 
Though Herenton said an the referendum failed. NBA franchise would be an Memphis, with a metropol­economic and public rela­itan population of just over 1 tions boost for the city, he million and a TV market noted some citizens ranked 40th nationally, undoubtedly will oppose con­would replace Salt Lake City struction of a new stadium. as the smallest market in the 
Talk about a possible move NBA. by the Grizzlies has been The city is known for its swirling through Memphis, plentiful barbecue restau­
but there has been little men­

"Memphis' best days are 
tion of the 

ahead ofit and this is 
Hornets. "This is another step in that great news 
evolutionary process. I 
f o r 

hope Memphians will 
Memphis because it have an open mind. " makes it even more 
W.W. Herenton
likely that 

mayor of Memphis
Memphis will receive an NBA franchise," s a i d 
rants and as the home of E I V i s Presley, who died in 1977. 
The deci­sion to move gives Heisley a chance to build a new fan base for h i s Grizzlies, a 7-year-old franchise that has 

Autozone founder J.R. "Pitt" seatte.red support in Hyde, leader of a business Vancouver and is expected group that has been search­to lose $40 million this year. ing for a team for the past For Memphis, landing year. either team would end a 
Hyde said at a news con­search for a major profes­ference that his local sional sports franchise that investor group would buy has lasted more than three "up to 50 percent" of a fran­decades. chise, regardless of what In 1974 and 1993, team might move to Memphis was a finalist for Memphis. NFL expansion teams but 
An NBA relocation commit­lost out each time. The for­tee will be appointed in a m er Houston Oilers used week to review both applica­Memphis as a temporary tions and make a recommen­home in 1997 before moving dation to the league's board in 1998 to Nashville, where of governors within four they became the Titans. months. "We've been trying to get 
Michael Glenn, a vice pres­to this point for many, many ident of FedEx Corp., said years," Hyde said. "Now I the company has made a think it is incumbent on the major commitment to buy citizens of Memphis to get naming rights for a Memphis behind this effort to show team and the new stadium. that they fully support the Glenn declined to ·give fig-building of a new arena." 
:-t001 Arts and Lattars 
Majors alld Program Fair 

VVednesday, March 28 5:30 -7:00 p.m. Library Concourse 


Advisors from every Major, Minor and Area Studies Program will be available to provide information ·and answer questions for all students. 
__________________________________________________. 
chairman with Green of the 
------------1 
Tuesday, March 27; 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
SWIMMING 
Carlson, Conway earn 
Swimmers make the grade 
acadentic honors 
Special ro the Observer 
The Notre Dame men's swimming and diving team continued its tradi­tion of excellence in the classroom during the fall semester and earned an 


Academic all-star team award from the College
Swimming Coaches Association of America (CSCAA) 
on Monday.
Notre Dame ranked second in the nation for the 
2000 fall semester 
d
3 

with a 3. 24 team gra e 
point average (GPA) juSt
behind BYU. BYU claimed first with a 3 3 r: k St J h • 
· ,, mar · · · o n 5 
(3.279), Florida (3.21) and Denver (3.19) rounded out the top five on the CSCAA r t 
15 
· 

r·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·,~. 
• • • ©2000, American Heart Association 
Special to the Observer 

Notre Dame hockey standout senior Dan Carlson and cross country All-American junior Pat Conway have been selected to the Verizon CoSIDA M e n ' sAcademic All-District F" At 
Ive ­Large Team for fall and 
winter 


Carlson 
sports. 

Carlson led the Notre Dame hockey team in scoring with 17 goals 
To earn All-Academic posted the top mark in the and 25 assists for 42 points honors as a team, the entire nation for the 1999 spring which ranked him ninth amongd all scorers in the Central
team must average at least semester (3.352) an a 2.8 GPA on a 4.0 scale. dropped to second in the Collegiate Hockey Association In all, 31 Division I swim-1999 fall rankings. (CCHA).
Th . l ft . fi . h d
ming and diving teams met The Irish were ranked e semor e wmg mis e the criteria for the 2000 fall seventh for the 2000 spring his career with the Irish scor­semester. semester, but rebounded to ing 52 ~oals and_ 8_0 assists for 
The Notre Dame men the second spot in the fall. 132 pomts to f1msh 20th on Notre Dame's all-time scoring 
.l ATTENTION GRADUATING SENIORS!! 
I 
·Notre Dame's Office of Undergraduate Admissions is accepting appli­cants for the position of Admissions Counselor 
I 
As Part of the Undergraduate Admissions staff, the Counselor is expected 
to make an important contribution to the recruitment and selection of 
I 
¦ the first-year class by managing relations with the prospective applicants, their parents, high school personnel and alumni in an assigned 
geographic area. 
I ¦ 
Responsibilities include extensive planning, travel, communications within the geographic area, assessment and evaluation of applications and 
I 
¦ conducting group/individual information sessions on campus. Additional responsibilities, including the possibility of diversity recruitment, will be 
assigned by the Assistant Provost for Enrollment. 
I ¦ 
Candidates should possess a bachelor's degree and familiarity with all aspects of student life at Notre Dame. 
I ¦ 
Essential qualities include strong communication and organizational skills, enthusiasm, diplomacy and the willingness to work long hours including 
¦ many evenings and Saturday mornings. 
I Preferred start date is July 1, 2001 
Apply with resume, cover letter and reference information by Friday, April 5, 2001 to: 
Admissions Counselor Job # 1007-088 Department of Human Resources University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, IN 46556

L-~·-·-·-·-·-·-•-·-·-•-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·J 
I Tips for Managing American ~le_arl a1. Your Medicines A~»m·iation ~ 
Ft9t,t1nn H19-Jrt D1~~.11so .;11-.d Strokr;,, 


• 
Keep a record of all medications you"re taking and keep it with you at all times 

•Ona 
daily calendar, write down when to take 

your medication and make a check mark when you take It 

• 
Incorporate taking medication into your dally routine (i.e., when you brush your teeth, etc.) 


• Take your medicine exactly as directed Refill your prescriptions so you don't run out If you have problems with your medicine, don't stop taking It-call your doctor or pharmacist Don't stop taking your medication because you 
feel better 

He set a school record for playing in more games (158) than any other player in Notre Dame history. Carlson was an honorable mention all-CCHA selection and was named to the league's eight-man all-academ­ic team. 
An Irish alternate captain during his senior season, Carlson owns a 3.49 grade point average with a double major in finance and computer applications and has been named to the Dean's List in five consecutive semesters at Notre Dame. 

Carlson, who hails from Edina, Minn., was an Academic .All-American during the 1999­
2000 season. 
Carlson earned MVP for the 
Irish in the 1999-2000 hockey 
season. 
Conway took All-America 
honors at the 2000 NCAA cross 
country championships with a 
36th place finish while helping 
the Irish to a ninth place. 
His 17th place finish at the 
2000 NCAA Great Lakes 
Regional played a key role in 
Notre Dame qualifying for the 
NCAA Championships. 
The junior cross country run­
ner Conway was 21st at the Big 
East Championships in 
November where Notre Dame 
finished fourth overall. 
He was also a scoring mem­
ber of Notre Dame's 1999 Big 
East Championship squad. 
As a member of the men's 
track team, Conway finished 
fourth in the mile at the 2001 
Big East Indoor Championships 
after finishing 10th as a sopho­
more in 2000. 
Conway will be one of Notre 
Dame's top distance runners 
this spring during the outdoor 
track schedule. 
He is a dean's list student 
with a 3.64 grade point aver­
age in accounting. 
Conway hails from 
Springfield, Va. 
Carlson and Conway were 
among 10 men's athletes from 
District Five who now advance 
to the national ballot for 
Academic All-America honors. 
The fall-winter at-large team 
will be released on April 1 7. 

This SIIMMe',
lesmst 
LO!fOLB 

Get a Jump on your degree-or wrap up a required course or two-at Loyola University Chicago's Summer Sessions. You'll have a top-quality academic experience at a premier national university ranked a "best value" by U.S. News and ~rld Report. 
Early Session: May 21 -June 29 
Late Session: July 2 -August 10 
Extended Session: May 18-August 11 
• 
Take the courses you want-including upper­level classes you can't get at community colleges. 

• 
Choose from four Chicago-area campuses, or learn on!ine at our virtual campus. 

• 
Pick your own schedule from our array of day, evening, weekend and online courses. 

• 
Enjoy the best of Chicago in the summertime. Many of our courses specially incorporate the city's great business and cultural resources. 


At Loyola, you'll get the same personal attention we provide to ourfull-time students-in courses taught by the same top-notch professors you'll find in our class­rooms year-round. Visit our Web site to learn more about Loyola-and apply today! 
S1111Me• S~u;ons 2001 
Loyola University Chlc•ao 
WWW.LIIC.1hlb/JcJd9tiliCS/SIUWM91"/Jds 
Otkago's Jesuit University 
LOYOLA 
Call today! 

>-!UNIVERSITY
{~jOilCAGO 1-800-7-LOYOLA 
~.~ Summer Sessions 
page 20 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, March 27, 2001 

FORTUNE' 
100 BEST 
COMPANIES§
TOWORKFORN 
Imagine looking forward to the week as much as you look forward to the weekend. Imagine spending each minute with unlimited opportunity and continuous options. At Ernst & Young we provide access to the most sophisticated and effective tools in the industry. See you Monday. 
ey.com/us/careers · i!./f RNST& YOUNG 
FROM THOUGHT TO FINISH.™ 
Ci2001 EANS! & YOUNG llP 

Tuesday, March 27, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Irish attack freezes Pioneers, 20-2 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Associate Spom Editor 
Pity the Denver women's lacrosse team. 
It must have thought it left the snow behind them in Colorado, but it encountered another snowstorm in South Bend, Ind. And that was before the Pioneers even set foot in the Loftus Sports Complex for their match against the Irish. 
And when Denver finally arrived Sunday afternoon, they found themselves at the mercy of the Fighting Irish. Notre Dame unleashed a blizzard of goals en route to blowing away Denver, 20-2. 
The win was the largest in school history for the Irish. It was the first time they scored 20 goals in a single game ­a school record -and just the second time they held an opponent to just two goals in a game. The last time the Irish had only two goals scored against them was in 1999, when they beat Davidson 18-2. 
With the win, Notre Dame improves to 4-1 on the season, matching their best start in school history. The last time the Irish began a season 4-1 was in 1997, their first season of play. 
Senior attack Lael O'Shaughncssy contin­ued her dominating per­formance so far this sea­son by scoring two goals and adding four assists. O'Shaughnessy, last week's Big East Player of the Week, leads the Irish in scoring. She has seven goals and 15 assists for a team-high 22 points. 
Sophomore defender Eleanor Weille chipped in three assists and a pair of goals, totaling five points. Before Sunday's game, Weille had three points in her entire collegiate career. 
In all, 10 different players scored for the Irish. Juniors Natalie Loftus and Maureen Whitaker and sopho­more Kelly Mccardell each scored two goals. Three other players, Meridith Simon, Lauren Fischer and Mia Novic, scored for the first time in their collegiate careers. 
Notre Dame plays later today, when they travel to head coach Tracy Coyne's alma mater, Ohio University. The match begins at 3 p.m. 




Hofstra 
continued from page 28 
Irish set up a play to try and tie the game. The play broke down, how­ever and Hofstra goalie 
J.P. Brazel made the save. Brazel attempted to clear the ball but 
Irish mid­fielder S t e v e Bishko came up with a clutch play to steal the pass. 
Bishko passed the ball to D a v i d Ulrich who spotted his brother T o d d Ulrich streaking down the middle. 
T o d d Ulrich took 

"It seemed like every time we clawed our way back into it [Hofstra] would put a couple more goals on the board. You have to hand it to Hofstra, they played a great 
game. 

David Ulrich senior captain 
his brother's pass right in front of the goal and tied the game with just seconds remaining. 
"That was a pretty clutch play right there," David Ulrich said. 
Todd Ulrich's goal was not enough, however, as Tierney's goal in over­time won the game for the Pride. After battling back from a three-goal deficit and tying the game so late in the game, David Ulrich said the Irish had a let down in overtime. 
"It seemed like every time we clawed our way back into it, they would put a couple more on the board," the senior captain said. "When we did finally tie it, we let our guard down because we were so relieved to catch them. But you 
have to hand it to Hofstra, t h e y played a g r e a t game." 
T h e I o s s dropped the Irish from No. 2 to No. 7 in the lat­est USILA I S T X men's lacrosse poll. The I r i s h hope to return to 
basics and cut down the mental mistakes in their next game against Ohio State. 
"These [next games] are the most important games because if we win our conference we are definitely going to the tournament," Adams said. "We just have to get back to the basics. 
All  the  mistakes  we  
made  were  basic  
errors."  

presented
excJisiveJy stuVent 
UillOil 
~ 
WWW.
nd. 
edu/
-sub 


page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, March 27, 2001 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Notre Dame splits weekend matches with SEC foes 
By STEVE KEPPEL Spom W rirer 
It was a weekend of ups and downs for the Notre Dame women's tennis team as they traveled to Kentucky and Tennessee. The seventh ranked Irish continued their streak or live straight victories with a 5-2 win over Kentucky on Saturday, but lost a disap­p o in ting match to ninth­ranked Tennessee 6-1 on Sunday. 
"We played awful this week­nnd," said senior all-American Michelle Dasso who strugglnd through injuries. "We played better as a whole against Kentucky and a lot worse at Tennnssee." 
The Irish came out on a tear against the Wildcats winning tlw doubles point and taking rour of six singles matches. Dasso and Becky Varnum, the Pighth-rnnked lrish duo, defoated 44th-ranked Carolina Mayorga and Sarah Witten 8­4, while Lindsay Green and Nina Vaughan picked up the other win over Shannon Stafford and Leigh Bradwell 8­2. 
Af'ler the doubles matches, llrn Irish built on their momen­
tum  with  singles  wins  by  
Varnum,  Caylan  Leslie,  
Kimberly  Guy  and  Nina  

Vaughan. Vaughan. who is currently ranked 99th in the country, had the most enter­taining win of the day coming back to beat 79th Bradwell 6­
2. 1-6. (1-4 al the No. 3 spot. At the No. 1 position, third­ranked All-American Dasso, who has been battling a back injury, lost a rare singles match to 17th-ranked Mayorga 7-5. 2-6, 6-2. 
"I wasn't 100 percent physi­cally this weekend but there arc no excuses I was very dis­appointed in myself," said the Irish captain. "I haven't been able to play as much to pre­pare for the matches. It is very frustrating, I feel like I let the team and coaches down a bit." 
On Sunday, the Irish traveled to the hostile environment of 
Tennessee to face the ninth­ranked Volunteers. Notre Dame started off the day by dropping two doubles matches and losing the doubles point. Dasso and Varnum had the only doubles win, their 11th straight, defeating No. 45 Vilmarie Castellvi and Kim Gates 8-6. 
"Losing the doubles point is always a little set back but you can't dwell on it and have to be able to take it in singles," said Dasso. 
"Tennessee is a very tough place to play," said Vaughan. "The crowd is always rowdy and obnoxious and we wore expecting that." 
After losing the doubles point, lhings only got worse for the Irish as they lost all but one of the singles matches while battling injury and loud and fiery players. 
Tennessee went up 2-0 with wins over Vaughan and Varnum at Nos. 2 and 3 sin­gles, and clinched the match as No. 65 Alison Ojeda defeat­ed Dasso in straight sets 6-1. 6-0. This marked the second straight singles loss for Dasso. who earlier set the Notre Dame record for most ever sin­gles victories. 
"We fought hard in -all our matches," said Dasso, "but just got flat outplayed. They were fighters and were really loud." 
"It was a tough loss, it would have been a great opportunity to beat another, top 10 team but we can't dwell on it. It's time to learn from it now instead of at the end of the season, I would love to see them again in the NCAAs," said Dasso. 
The loss is only the fourth this season for the Irish, who had previously won nine of their last 10. They hope to pick up the pieces next weekend as they take on Iowa at home and prepare for the rapidly approaching Big East Tournament. 
"We expect to win the rest of the matches but can't take anyone too lightly. We have to expect them to play their best against us," said Dasso. 
..................llai...lilltJllllliil. f# 
w; 
i 
f; 
ft ~ 
'ffe. 
w 
* 
* 
& 
w 
¾ 
Tickets are $4 $
,
Available in McGlinn Lobby 

< From 10-12 pm $,
::,
TOMORROW

* 
* ~ 
< 
,(: 
.~ 
'< $ March 28 ·~· 
t Prizes Include:i Gift certificates, signed basketballs, i < .D.Y.D. Player!! * 
-44 ' ft~$.,~, hhf Jli..~ hit "A A•·,JJ: $,~ #Mi #i1,~~li ·JfiJ.J(, 14~w * 

KYLIE CAATEMhe Observer 

Notre Dam~ senior Michelle Dasso returns the ball to her opponent during a match In February. Saturday, Notre Dame claimed victory over Kentucky, but dropped its Sunday match to ninth­ranked Tennessee. 

•·•·• ··.•· . •• •••••••·'.'.'•"•'•'•'{-',',••••• , ... , ... , • , ...-.·,-.· ·,·.• .•,:,:,;.'.-'.~•'.•:•'.•:•:•>!•:.:,:.;,;,;,;,;.;,;,:.;,:.:-•,;,;,• •,; ·• •, ••. • •.•. .'.'>, .•. 
ilii!li:dfllifi§illiF&&~l!ElliDW~. 
''69\11::r::u~d;:::e:::::i:::k°!r//Jf/;·
this summer (May 21 -August 17) 
;filJ:itre:Damestuaents from the South Benaareit.\ 
•..•••.•···::j~~.s,!14tt.ents planning to attenasum~~~>: ::i:::::'~f1~I~i:~ijistpn itieencouragett to contact Alisa Fii1fer /·.·•·:••.::,:·· 
~li!l~!lll1i:;~;;:;;~~!@:~iliiiiiJlliii~••••!i@iii~aJfi;505..·or.. fisher.1.2@na.·eau 
:~'\}t'.~;;f;;~:;~};;2::~:~ti:::;; ,'.,;-: ..·. 

---·-----T.-he_O_b_u-,v-e,-.-PA-ID_AD__VE_R'._T_I_S_E_M_E_N_T_____~--~-----~~-pa-gez 
--~7
3 

Tuesday, March 27, 2001 


2001.9Lrts & Letters Career :Fair 
Sponsorecf by 'Tlie Career Center 
Wednesday, March 28, 2001 
10:00 a.m. -4:00 p.m. 

Joyce Center Heritage Hall, Second Floor Concourse (Enter Gates 1 or 2) 

TIME 
AAR 
ABC News ~ightline Academy of Television Arts 
and Sciences Accenture (formerly Andersen Consulting) ACCION USA 
AFLAC 
Alliance for Catholic Education AMATE House American Red Cross AmeriCorps Arthur Andersen 
AT&T 
Augustinian Volunteer Program Best Buddies International Botta Capital Management, LLC Boys & Girls Clubs of America Boys Hope Girls Hope Brown & Wood, LLP Cabrini Mission Corps Carson Pirie Scott & Co. Catholic Relief Services Central Intelligence Agency Chicago Public Schools Children's Campus ChildServ City of Indianapolis City Year, Inc. Congressman Tim Roemer 

INTERNSHIPS SERVICE 
D'Arcy Advertising Drug Enforcement Administration E&J Gallo Winery The Elkhart Truth Enterprise Rent-A-Car Federal Bureau of Investigation First Source Bank Fund for Public Interest Research Gang Crime Prevention Center Group One Trading, LP Hershey Foods Holy Cross Associates Indiana Department of Transportation Interviewing Consultants, Inc. Jordan & Jordan Kaplan Educational Center Kauffman Entrepreneur 
Intern Program Kirkland & Ellis Legal Services Program of Northern 
Indiana, Inc. Liz Claiborne, Inc. Madison Center and Hospital Magazine Publishers of America Marriott Hotel MassMutual Financial Group May Department Stores McKinsey & Company Men's Wearhouse Mercy Home for Boys & Girls National City Corporation News America Marketing Ogilvy Public Relations Onsite Companies Ortho-McNeil Pharmaceuticals Paine Webber Peace Corps Profund Systems Saatchi & Saatchi SAFECO Insurance Service Employees International Union, 

Local 880 Share Foundation with the Handicapped 
.Simon & Schuster Spear, Leeds and Kellogg Starr Commonwealth State Farm Insurance Summerbridge National Teach for America TruGreen Chemlawn United Board for Christian Higher 
Education in Asia/National Council of Churches United States Air Force United States Department of Justice United States Secret Service University Directories Urban Institute 
I 
I 
i I 
ONLY RESUMES WITH COVER LETTERS WILL BE FORWARDED TO EMPLOYERS 
Bureau of National Affairs, Inc.  Eckerd Youth Alternatives, Inc.  Northern Kentucky Chamber  
Burns Sports Celebrity Service, Inc.  ESPN  of Commerce  
CB Richard Ellis  General Mills  Northwestern Mutual Financial  
CBS News  Grant Park Music Festival  Network  - The McTigue Group  
Chicago Association of Neighborhood Development Organizations Chicago Children's Museum City of New York Parks & Recreation Comerica Easter Seals Camp Wawbeek  International Foundation of Employee Benefit Plans JCPenney Co. J. Walter Thompson Madison Square Garden National Institute for Social  Pfizer, Inc. Special Recreation Services of Northern Lake County YAI/National Institute for People with Disabilities Young & Laramore  
Science Information  
'.  ' .'  






page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesdayy, March 27, 2001 

SOFTBALL 
Irish open 
at home vs. 
Broncos 
By LIA GARCIA MILHOAN 
Sports Writer 
Thr 12th-ranked Irish women's softball team looks to continue its strong start today when it faces Westrrn Michigan in a 4 p.m. home opener at Ivy Firld. 
Over Spring Break the Irish (18-3) traveled to Southern California for the KIA Classic and came away with a 7-2 mark while defeating four ranked tnams. 
"It was an overall team ofTort." said senior Sarah Kirkman. "Everyone did their job well and that made us very effective." 
Junior Jenny Kricch said of the Classic. "It helped the chem­istry of the team. Spring Break can be a challenge to keep on the field and off the field sepa­rate. But we have such good chemistry that off the field can only holp us on the field." 
"On Spring Break we spend the whole week together and there are two ways to go," said senior captain Jen Sharron. "You can come back and love each other or hate each other. This was the best Spring Break I've had. We had a chance to grow as a group. We won and lost big games together but we proved we were able to rompete with llrn elite tBams." 
Strong pitrhing and danger­ot1s hitting has keyed the Irish success. Kirkman said, "Up and clown tlrn line we're dangerous. Whenevor one person was not able to be successful, the next person was. Our whole lineup is dangerous." 
Comphimenting the hitting has ber.n impressive pitching most notable from Sharron and freshman Kristin Schmidt. On the vear, Schmidt owns a 0.95 EHA. and is 8-1 in six starts for the Irish. Sharron. one of the best pitchers in Notre Dame his­tory, holds a 2.08 ERA and has pitched a tliam leading 73.2 innings. 
Western Michigan holds a 5-8 overall record and is on a three game winning streak coming into Tuesday's game. Most recently, the Broncos swept a doubleheader against Oakland. 
Kirkman feels that the keys for the game are for the Irish to come out strong and keep their focus. "If we play our game we should have no problem, but we have to remain focused," she said. 
Rodriguez's contract defies spirit ofbaseball 
The Texas Rangers will pay shortstop Alex Rodriguez $252 million over the next 10 years. For $25 million a year, you'd think they would have 
Bill Gates  
digging  Jeff Baltruzak  
ground­ 
ers out of  
the hole or at least Bill  Assistant Sports Editor  
Clinton.  
Rodri­ 

guez might hit .400. lie might hit 55 home runs with 180 RBIs, win the Triple Crown, but he, Alex Rodriguez, will not win the World Series, will not bring a ticker tape parade to downtown Dallas, and will not place a golden champi­onship ring on each one of his teammates' fingers in October. 
Worst of all, Rodriguez won't even give Texans area­son to turn off the NASCAR race and head down to the ballpark for Gun Rack Night. 
Why did the Rangers invest in Rodriguez? Is it because the stock market is in the crapper and they are looking to diversify their portfolio? 
No. 
It's because the Rangers want to win, and they think Rodriguez will help them win baseball games. 
And he will. He'll get hits, advance runners, help score runs. He'll help win games, but he won't win them him­self. Last time I checked, Rodriguez was just one play­er. albeit an outstanding one, and not even the President of the United States. 
The $252 million signals to everyone that the Rangers expect Rodriguez to produce extra wins for the team. Nobody pays somebody that much to "give it their all" or "try their best." Little Leaguers give it their all, and all they get is a plastic trophy and a party at Pizza Hut at the end of the season. 
Baseball is a team sport. It has been since the 1800s when players used to have huge mustaches and drink mint julips in between innings. Back then, players didn't even have numbers on the back of their jerseys, let alone names. 
The Texas Rangers might as well be called Alex Rodriguez and 24 Guys That Wear the Same Uniform As Him. But that won't fit on the front of a jersey. 
It can be very refreshing to see 33 guys playing baseball together, some better and more highly touted than oth­ers, but never the less a team. Go to Frank Eck Stadium on Wednesday, and 
watch the No. 13 ranked 
Notre Dame baseball team 
destroy Toledo -together. 
Watch the team lay down 
bunts, advance some run­
ners, and score runs togeth­
er, not wait for an Alex 
Rodriguez to bash some 
horneruns and then save the 
free world. 
The Irish does not win on overwhelming, Mark­McGwire-crazy-on-creatine offense, smacking home runs left and right, but rather through solid pitching and intangibles like perfectly executed hit and runs. 
Watch the team support each other. Watch each member of the team make exactly the same salary ­nothing. It really is refresh­ing. · 
Every member of the Notre Dame baseball team under­stands the common purpose they all play for, from head coach Paul Mainieri down to the freshmen. 
When Mainieri won his 600th college game earlier this season, a reflection of his great success in the coaching profession, all he could do was gush about how great his assistant coaches and players are. That's what people on a team do, that's what people do when they understand that baseball is about being part of a team. · 
I know I sound like a T-ball coach, but what is baseball without the team concept? Ever try to play one-on-one baseball? Its tough, I tried it once. But then my friend and 1 forgot where the ghost run­ners were, and all hell broke lose. I attacked him with my 
OLY 


Placements Meeting Tonight2 March 27th .. 7pm-8pm ­Center for Social Concerns 


Interested in volunteering after graduation? All a.re invited to join us and learn about 'Placement Oppor­tunities' within Holy Cross Associates. We will be discussing the different types of direct service placements available and the cities where Associates serve? 
Applications are now being accepted, with placement priority given to . , . those received by April 1st. (Applications available on-line.) 
A · 

Associates are eligible for AmeriCorps Education Awards -. and Loan Deferments. The Education Award is $4,725 towards Joans and/or future education. 
erving in Arizona, California, Colorado, Massachusetts, Oregon, and Pennsylvania 
htt ://www.nd.edu/~hcassoc/ 

plastic bat, and after some plays out behind the Joyce brief fisticuffs, we decided to Center that will show you go inside and let MTV rot our how a baseball team is sup­brains. posed to be. 
You don't need to go to a Major League game with The opinions expressed in quarter-billion dollar megas­this column are those of the tars to see well-played base­author and not necessarily ball. There's a team that those of the Observer. 
SSOCIATES 

Tuesday, March 27, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
Hoops 
continued from page 28 
named Regional Most Valuable Player. 
Notre Dame limited the Commodores to 41.7 percent shooting for the-game. 
McGraw used a 1-3-1 zone defense throughout muc·h of the game to stifle Foster's team. 
•• 1 think they did a terrific job with their defimse," Foster said. "I think for the first time in a long time, we acted young, but I think they had a lot to do with that. They acted very mature and poised." 
Zuzana Klimesova led the Commodores with 27 points, including three 3-pointers. The junior from the Czech Republic also grabbed a game-high 12 rebounds. 
"We played tentative," Klimesova said. "We gave up a lot of shots we shouldn't have and our demeanor wasn't what it was since we faced Georgia in the SEC tourna­ment. We were scared, and 
that's not the way  we  have  
been in a long time."  
While  Riley  shined.  

Vanderbilt's second-team All­American center Chantelle Anderson struggled. 
The sophomore scored only 14 points and left after col­lecting her fifth foul inside on Riley with 6:22 remaining in the game. 
"We knew getting her out was something that would be to our advantage," Riley said. "The coaches told me to attack." 
Anderson admitted that she did not play her best game Monday. 
''For the first time in a long time, I played immature and Ruth Riley took advantage of it.·• Anderson said. 
Vanderbilt's 6-foot-6 center collected her third foul as she tagged Riley inside 1 :07 into the second half. Naismith Award winner Riley hit both free throws to put the Irish up 42-40. 
Notre Dame would never trail again. When Riley scored under the basket with 5:28 remaining, the Irish built their biggest lead of the night, 64­
52. . "We're ready to move on," 
McGraw said. "The first thing our players said when we got back to the locker room was 
'two more games.' I think they're happy. but not as happy as me. We're ready to get down to business." 
The contest started out as a defensive battle. Neither team could find tho basket until Ratay hit a 3 at the 2:12 into the game. The teams then traded leads until Vanderbilt held Notre Dame scoreless for a three-minute stretch mid­way through the half. A Klimesova lay-in with 12:44 remarnrng put the Commodores up 15-9. 
The Irish stormed back, 
outscoring the Commodores 
14-5 over the next four min­
utes to take a 23-20 lead. The 
Irish built that lead to 36-29 
when Riley scored down low 
with 3:35 remaining. 
But the Commodores 
wouldn't go quietly into the 
night. Behind five points by 
Jillian Danker and four from 
Klimes ova, 
Vanderbilt outscored Notre 
Dame 11-4 to end the half. 
Danker's bank shot with three 
seconds remaining knotted the 
contest at 40 heading into the 
locker room. 
It was the first time this sea­son that Notre Dame has entered the locker room with the game tied, and only the third time they failed to lead after the first 20 minutes. 
Riley 
continued from page 28 
Prouder than 1997, when McGraw and the Irish advanced to the school's first Final Four. Maybe this is why: the first time, Notre Dame was the underdog. 
The Irish were seeded sixth and upset third-seeded Texas in the second round. 
From there, they beat sec­ond-seeded Alabama and fifth-seeded George Washington before losing to Tennessee. 
This time, since the Connecticut win on Jan. 15, a national semifinal berth was expected. 
And with the expectations comes daunting pressure. At least that's what the cliche says. 
But on Monday night, the Irish remained calm, a char­acteristic they struggled with last season. They suffered their 11th straight defeat to Connecticut in late February 2000, lost to Rutgers in the Big East semifinals after lead­ing by nine with four minutes left and squandered a 17-0 lead to Texas Tech in the Sweet Sixteen. 
In this year's Elite Eight contest, they received big nights from Alicia Ratay (17 points on 7 -of-11 shooting, including 15 in the first half) and Kelley Siemon (16 points, 7 rebounds and 5 assists). 
And although she shot just three times and scored only three points, Niele Ivey dished out nine assists and did her usual solid job at the point, leading and directing the Irish to St. Louis. 
Which happens to be lvey's hometown. Watch out for the countless Ivey-St. Louis connection sto-
Global Health Initiative presents: 

Miles for Medicine 
Support1ng the ISSLP in Ecuador 
Andean Health and Development 
5 km Run 
Thursday March 29th 3 :30 Registration, 4pm Start $7 fee At the CSC 
Free T-shirts to the top 3 0 finishers 

INITIATIVE 
Questions/Comments: ghi@nd_edu 

ries this week. "It will hit me more when I 
wal.k into the airport back home and there will be so many people there," Ivey said of the. "I know my phone is ringing off the hook right now." 
So is Riley's. 

In the match-up between the best two centers in the country, Riley got the better of a foul-plagued Chantelle • Anderson. 
With 6:22 left, Anderson 
tried to block Riley's shot but was instead Indiana town, perhaps Macy, 
But never mind how good Ruth is. It is the supporting cast, the lveys and Ratays and Siemons and Haneys and Joyces and Barksdales that makes this team better than the 1997 squad and a team capable of winning the nation­al title. 
The 1997 team featured two star players (Beth Morgan and Katryna Gaither) but little else. 
The 2001 team features two star players (Riley and Ivey) 
plus much 
more. 

whistled In 1997, a
''The [player who blocked 
for her trip to the Final
Riley's shot] tried to 
fifth foul.· Four was an Ander-stare Riley down and improbable son just journey.
Ruth sort oflooked at the 
stood In 2001, any­
player and laughed at
there, a thing less than look of her. Not in a menacing a Final Four disbelief berth would
sort ofway, in a 'that's 
on her have been seen
not going .to work' sort of
face, a as a failure. look of way. It was the sort of "Last time we 
relief on thing you might see on were so thrilled 
the Irish to be there,"
the playground. " 
players' McGraw said, faces. "We took a "A few Jim Foster thousand pic­years tures. This
Vanderbilt head coach
from now," head coach Jim Foster said, "and she [Anderson] might be the best post player who ever walked on the court." 
Easy with the hyperbole. I know this is the time of year where legends are made and goats emerge, and where · 
· Dicky V's hype reigns supreme. 

While Anderson sat on the bench, Riley scored Notre Dame's next 11 points. 
In the final 12:13, Riley scored 18 of the 22 Irish points. 
But it was her poise, her intangibles that made Foster wish he could trade centers for the night. 
"I watched film and she [Riley] had a shot blocked," Foster said. "The girl tried to stare her down. Ruth just sort of looked at the player and laughed at her. Not in a men­acing sort of way, in a 'that's not going to work' sort of way. It was the kind of thing you might see on the playground." 
Or the front yard of a small 
team is defi­
nitely focused, 
they have a 
more business like approach. 
"The first thing they said when we got into the locker room (on Monday night) was two more games. They are obviou(>ly very happy but they're not as happy as I am. They're ready to get back to work." 
But for a few moments on Monday night, the players had a chance to mix some plea­sure with business. 
When Niele Ivey cut the last strand of the net, she stepped down the ladder and gathered with her teammates near cen­ter court. 
They put their arms around each other, smiled, danced and sang a tune. 
Its name? 
"Who Runnin'?" 
"We were runnin' tonight," guard Imani Dunbar said. 
All the way to St. Louis. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe columnist and not necessarily those ofthe Observer. 

'''InltfllWRf-BEtiN.GS:lQ1:lfflS:£WJU), rumm·mm:ItM.lflloo s-~lt'h 
~~Qll::~~•r 

THE WOMEN'S REsOURCE CENTER PRESENTS..• 

..,.THE WRC ASKS THE NOTRE DAME COMMUNTIY TO""' PARTICIPATE IN HONORING FOUR WOMEN OF NOTRE DAME 
•Pl.EASE SUBMIT NOMINATIONS l'OR..q, fEMAl.E STUDENTS, FACUI.'IY MEMBERS AND STA.ff MEMBERS WHO YOU FEEL ARE AN ASSliT TO THE NOIRE DAME COMMUNtlY OR WHO 
HA VE BEEN A GREAT POSITIVE lNFUJENCE ON YOUR Lll'E 
,p.YOUR NOMINATION OF ONE PAGE OR LESS SHOULD INCLUDE THE FOUOWING, "1J How YOUR NOMINEE HAS BF.EN' A POSITIVE ASSEr TO 1HE NOTRE DAME COMMUNITV "1J How YOUR NOMINEll HAS INFJ.UENCED YOU IN A POSITIVE MANNER "1! YOUR NAME, n:t.EPKONE-NUMBER AND EMAll. ADDRESS ~ THE fUU NAME OP YOUR NOMINEE 
,p,,TJIE NOMINATION WllL BE JUDGED BY A PANEL OF MALE AND FEMALE STUDENTS AND FACULTY MEMBERS 
•WE wn.t HONOR EAOI WOMAN IN 1HE APRil. 26"' EDmON OF SrnoLASnc 
.,,._Pl.EAsE EMAil. YOUR NOMINATIONS TO: ND.WRC.l@ND.EDU OR DROP IIOMDIATION5 Off AT 11IE WRC, 300 IAFOlmlNI! 
..,.D£ADL.INE FOR NOMINATIONS: TUEsDAY, APRll 311D 
ANY Qll1'5J10NS; EMAIL rnE WRC, OR CALL; l-90Z8 THANK YOU fOR YOUR PARTJCIPATIONI 


:-....... 
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, March 27, 2001 
BASEBALL 
Irish hurlers shut off Panthers, fall short against Hokies 
singled down the rightfield

By JEFF BALTRUZAK 
line for two runs. Second Assislant Spons Editor 
baseman Marc Tugwell then 
won it with yet another single_ 

Tbis past weekend, the • "J don't think it was any­Notre Dame baseball team did thing we did, you have to tip its bnst Dr. Jekyll and Mr. your hat to Virginia Tech for llydn impression, shutting getting those four hits," said Pittsburgh out 3-0 twicf'i on Irish head coach Paul Friday, but blowing two run Mainieri. leads in the bottom of the Saturday's second game ninth in each of would seem its two games like deja vu against Virginia "I don't think it was for the Irish. Tech on Notre Dame
anything we did: you

Saturday losing went up 8-6 3-2 and 9-8. have to tip your hat to after a four­Friday's games Virginia Tech run eighth followed a famil­inning,
for getting those four

iar formula for spearheaded the Irish this hits." by a triple by season, with leadoff hitter outstanding Steve Stanley
Paul Mainieri

pitching from and a double
head coach

seniors Aaron Heilman and 
Danny Tamayo 
coupled with sufficient hitting to win. 
Tamayo (3-1 l. pitching in the early game, allowed only four hits while walking none. He sent 10 Panthers packing with strikeouts, five of which were called third strikes, while throwing just 89 pitches in the seven inning contest. 
.Junior catcher Paul O'Toole provided the offensive spark for Notre Dame. He smacked a two-run double into the left center field gap that scored two, giving the Irish a 3-0 lead in the third frame. Neither team would have a runner cross the plate -for the rest of the game. 
1-leilman secured his team leading sixth win with a gem, allowing just two hits. The All-American was especially vicious in the fifth, when he struck out Panthers Bryan Spamer. Scott Folmar and Tony Hailing with only 12 pitches. 
"I think the one big thing l did was spotting my fastball," said Heilman. "That let me get ahead of hitters." 
But Pittsburgh was never out or the game, as the Irish only Ind 1-0 until the ninth inning. Shortstop Alec Porzel had two RBIs in the final inning when he doubled home teammates O'Toole and Steve Sollmann. 
The lrish's hitting has strug­gled as of late, and though Notre Dame walked away with the win in the second game on Friday, they left ten runners stranded. 
"Our hitting hasn't been that great," said Heilman. "But we know it will turn around." 
J.P. Gagne, starting his sec­ond game of the season, pitched well the first six innings of the opener with Virginia Tech, but was unable to finish strong in the seventh and final inning of the con­test. 
The game was a light-hitting affair, with 13 singles, seven by Notre Dame. 
The Irish led 2-0 going into thn last inning, but Virginia Tech singled twice to put run­ners on first and second. Tech centerfielder Chris Hutchinson attempted to move the runners over, and ended up at first when Notre Dame was unable to field his bunt. 
Thal set the stage for the llokie's Brad Bauder, who by Porzel. 
Sophomore 
K r i s Billmaier also had a homerun in the inning. 
But the Hokies would roar back, rallying with two outs and scoring three in their last at bat. Christian Simmers had the double that put Virginia Tech up for good. 
With the losses to Tech, the answer to Notre Dame's hit­ting woes remains to be seen. 
"We have good hitters, but they need to become more 

consistent." said Mainieri. "We haven't put our hits together, but we have the ability." 
Mainieri pointed out the four-run eighth inning in the nightcap at Virginia Tech as an example of the offensive fireworks that Notre Dame is capable of producing. 
"We were able to string hits 
together. and hit for  some  
extra  base  power,"  said  
Mainieri.  

Notre Dame lost ground in the polJs over the weekend. The Irish dropped from No. 8 to No. 13 in the Collegiate Division 1 poll, with similar drops in the Baseball America and Baseball Weekly/ESPN Coaches' polls. 
Though the Irish ended the weekend a disappointing 2-2 to run their season record to 16-4-1, there could be lessons from the Virginia Tech games. 
"I think we can take some things out of [the two losses]," said Heilman. 
Tuesday's home game against Western Michigan was cancelled because South Bell(f's winter dusted Frank Eck Stadium with snow, and the game has been resched­uled for May 2. The Irish will retake the field on Wednesday against Toledo at Frank Eck Stadium at 5:05 p.m. 
Happy Birthday, Elspeth! 
~Dad, Joelle, Cindy, Shadrach, and Abendego 


Notre Dame junior centerfielder Steve Stanley takes a swing against Bowling Green last year. 
CASTING & ANGLING 
CLINIC Three Sessions 6:00-7: 15 PM Open to ND Students & Employees $8.00 Class Fee 
CLASS DATES 
APRIL 3 
APRIL 10 
APRIL 17 


lasses Held in the Joyce Center & Campus Lakes Equipment Provided but Bring Own if Possible Register in Advance at RecSports 
Announcing a new undergraduate minor 
Religion and Literature 
Beginning next fall, you can bring your intellectual curiosity and scholarly goals as a participant in the new interdisciplinary minor in Religion and Literature. 
If you are intcrcs1cd in becoming part of this new minor the time to act is now. All students will be expected to complete a specific "required'' coumc-one ofwhich will be offered in the Fall semester and another in the Spring. Spaces for the Fall course are currently being reserved but are limited. To find out more, please contact one of the following; 
Collin MeissneG Tel. 631-3654~ e-mail Meissner. I@nd.edu 
Joseph Buttigieg: Tel. 63 l•7781; e•mail Buttigieg.1@nd.edu 


Tuesday, March 27, 2001 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
TYLER
TOM KEELEY

FOURTH AND INCHES 
THE WORt.C WATCHED IN TER~Oll AS THE ~ FB..L FARTHER AND FARTHER AWAY, FROM THE TACO 8ELL TARScf, ANI> ct.OSER TO ANOTHER ONE.•. 
BILL AMEND

Fox TROT 
IT'S S~ING 8REAI<, MOM/ I SHOULD I DEMAND THE I THINK I'LL CLAMP SE c.AVoRTING WITH 81Kll'4l 6A8ES! FANTASY l MOM SAYS THEM SHUT, TI-IANKS. 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 29 Storekeeper's stock: Abbr. 
1 Warsaw Pact land 
30 Et _ (footnote abbr.)

5 1990's Philippine 31 Campus locale
leader Fidel 33 Large shoe
10 What "m" 1s in specification
F=ma 
35 Self-mover's14 Singer Turner rental 

15 Off from the 
40 Y

center 44 "Mission16 Amo, amas, _ 
possible" group? 17 Label on some 
45 "_ you nuts?" 

sportswear 
46 Jazzman Herbie 18 1985 Glenn 
47 •_likely!"

Close film 50 British rule in 
19 Cuban boy 
colonial India 20 Track star Carl 
52 Rebel Turner 22 Main point 53 Y 
23 What might 59 Rat's learning follow catch or place latch 
60 Lined up 24 Y 61 Maine forest 27 See 41-Down sight 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

E V E R L I A G E 
M E S S E N D E R 

64 Musical work 65 Russian wnter 
Maxim 67 Don Juan's mother 
68Go-_ 69 "The doer's 
open!" 70 Lightly burn 71 Farm mothers 72 "Ta-ta!" 73 Poet St. 
VincentMillay 
DOWN 
1 Electricity or water: Abbr. 2 42 Long, e.g. 3 Six-sided figure 4 Pilot's communicator 5 Dodge product 
6 Without questioning or debate 
7 Add, as an ingredient 
Puale by MlchHI Shleyman 
8 Writers for old literary columns  28 Stage actor.  49 Seat of power  57 Strong suit  
9 Boil  Alfred  51 Toast topper  58 Clamor  
10 Large estate 11 acid drop-in 13 Prepared to sing the national anthem  32 Focus of a genome study 34 Early 60's singer Little ­36 Order with eggs 37 Lett 38 Armbone  53 Light up 54 Sweet fruit 55 Sky-blue 56 They may go out on a limb  62 Rapper Combs 63 Poet Pound 66 H may be money in the bank: Abbr.  
21  Lanka  39 Gave for a while  Answers to any three clues in this puzzle  
25 Was positive 26 Prefix with lateral  41 Prefix meaning 27-Across 42 Cursor mover  are available by tooch-tone phone: 1-900·420·5656 (95¢ per minu1e). Annual subscriptions are available for the  
27 Swimming pool shade  43 Derriere 48 Oil-rich Indians  best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1·888-7-ACROSS  

HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITrES BORN ON THIS DAY: Queen Latifah, Charley Pride, Vanessa Williams, Alex Caffi, Irene Cara, Wilson Pickett. Edgar Cayce 
Happy Birthday: You'll be off and running this year. Your high energy and willful spirit will help you initiate change and put your plans in motion. You will try to do more than is humanly possi• ble, but that's never stopped you in the past. Perhaps this year you will consider delegating some of the less demanding jobs to others and leave yourself open to take care of important matters. Your numbers: 10, 16, 22, 28, 30, 32 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You can raise the value of your home if you do some renova­tions. Get the whole family to pitch in and help, but don't take on jobs that require an expert. 00 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Positive action to alleviate con­cerns about aging can be dealt with through cosmetic surgery or fitness programs. You'll feel bet· ter about yourself if you make 
changes.0000 

GEMINI (May 21-Jurte 20): Emotional upset will result if you overspend on your partner. Take time to organize your financial situation and look over your per· sonal papers. Real estate deals will tum out to be lucrative, 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
Don't be surprised if your mate has a change of heart. Anger is not becoming. Try to be patient, for you can't control tlie way someone feels about you. Give him or her the space required. 00 
LEO (July 23-Aag. 22): You'll be the center of attention. You can gain popularity if you attend functions that are related to your chosen field. Don't let a physical 
EUGENIA LAST 
attraction to a colleague lead you into an affair. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Clear up those small but impor­tant details. You will feel much more comfortable in social set­tings ifyou know your work is up to date. Romantic connections can be made if you mingle. 00000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Be prepared to deal with overindul­gent individuals. Don't let them get away with a llpoor me" atti­tude. Speak up clearly and give them an ultimatum if they wish you to remain in their lives. 00 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your interest in starting your own business will mount. Talk to indi• viduals who are already in that position. You can gain an inside look at the pitfalls of being your own boss. 0000 
SAGIITARIUS (Nov; 22-Dec. 21): 
Joint financial ventures will turn sour. Try to salvage what you can. You will be taken advantage of if you aren't choosy about the company you keep. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
Your emotional attitude will con­fuse others. Be honest with your• self and your family. Don't take on too much or make promises to family members that you know you can't keep. 000 • 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
You can make financial gains if you are realistic about your assets. Real estate investments can be bought or sold. Transfer money to the investment offering the best returns. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19•March 20): 
Don't take on more than you can handle. You'd be best to spend a quiet day catching up on the little things you never find time to do. Don't feel obligated to take. care ofeveryone else. 0000 


Tue. March 27 vs. Western Michigan 5 pm  Tuesday, March 27 vs. Western Michigan  
Rrst 50Students Receive F-ree HotCocoa  4:00 pm (2)  
WFD. MARCH 28 VS. TOLEDO  Wednesday, March 28 vs. Valparaiso  
5PM  4:00 pm (2)  

... 



Jekyll and Hyde 
The Irish baseball team claimed vir.tory early this weekend, against Pitt but changed faces and blew two two-run leads against Virginia Tech. 
PORTS 
page 26 

... 
O
THE page 28 BSERVER Tuesday, March 27, 2001 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish play like Champions 
-
Irish earn trip to Final Four with 72-64 victory 

By NOAH AMSTADTER Sports Editor 
DENVER The sign in the stands said it all. llalf'way up the Notre Dame fan section, a 

sign bnaring the famous football slogan "Play likn a champion today" rose above the cheer­ing crowd. 
Behind an /\II-American effort from Ruth Hiley tlw Irish did just thaL 
With tlrn Midwest Regional championship game knotted 40-40 at halftime, Riley car­rif\cl tlw Notre Dame women on her back, scoring 20 of Notre Dame's 32 second-half points to push the Irish (32-2) past the Vanc!Prbilt Commodores (24-10), 72-64. 
The senior finished with a game-high 32 to go along with six rebounds to send the Irish to their second-ever Final Four this weekend in St. Louis. Notre Dame takes on Connecticut Friday evening. 
"She was absolutely terrific," Vanderbilt coach .Jim Foster said. "She played like the best player in the country. I love her demeanor and her makeup. She's a quality kid and it shows in every dimension." 
Alicia Hatay also came on strong for the Irish. scoring 15 first-half points, including three 3-pointers. Hatay finished with 17 for the game to go along with live rebounds. 
"She kind of got everybody relaxed," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "She played real­ly steady and poised. She was hitting some big shots in the first half." 
Siemon added 16 points and a team-high seven rebounds for Notre Dame. Hatay. Hiley and Siemon were all named to the All­Midwest Hegional team, while Riley was 
see HOOPS/page 25 

MEN'S LACROSSE 

Riley plays key 
role in victory 
over Vanderbilt 

DENVER We saw her dominate, dictate, create and celebrate. 
We saw her score 32 points, grab six rnbounds, block three shots and make thn Vanderbilt frontcourt look like a bunch of third-graders. 
We saw her with scissors in hand, climbing the ladder, snipping a piece of the net and waving to no one in partic­ular. 
Guess what we didn't see'! 
Huth Riley's insides. . "I didn't really feel that well [ dur­ing the game)." Hiley said after Notre Dame's 72-64 win over Vanderbilt. "It's been a couple of days. They said it might have been something I ate. I'm feeling a little bet­ter now." 
No big surprise them. Add another chapter to thn Huth Hiley Story. · 
National Player of the Year, Academic Player of the Year. Big East Player of the Year, Big East Defensive Player of the Year, Midwest Regional Most Valuable Player. 
Now a trip to the Final Four. 
"This has been a storybook season," head coach Muffet McGraw said. "This is my proudest moment as a coach." 

see STORY/page 25 

Pride knock Irish from No 2 ranking in OT thriller 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Sports Wri rer 
Head coach Kevin Corrigan said the men's lacrosse team's No. 2 ranking was a big target for all Notre Dame's oppo­nents for the rest of the sea­son. 
On Saturday, Hofstra's Michael Tierney hit the bulls­eye. 
Tierney scored his second goal of the game in sudden death overtime as the Pride handed the Irish their first loss of the year, 11-10. 
The Pride led for most of the game by taking advantage of Irish mistakes. 
Although Notre Dame made several mental errors in their wins against Virginia and Loyola, Hofstra was the first team to make the Irish pay for their errors. 
"Hofstra jumped out to an 
early lead and whenever we made a mistake they capital­ized on it unlike Virginia and Loyola," attack David Ulrich said. "We just had a lot of mental break downs in what­ever we did. It kind of took us out of our game." 
"We made even more [mis­takes] than the past couple of games," defender Mike Adams said. "In other games, in one area we might have done poorly in clearing or defense but this game, it was pretty poor across the board. We got lucky because we made some big plays but just not enough." 

Although the Pride took advantage of several Irish mis­takes, Notre Dame still man­aged a comeback to send the game to overtime. Hofstra scored three third quarter goals to build a 9-6 lead. Todd Ulrich scored a goal with 45 second left in the third to cut the lead to 9-7. 
The Irish opened the fourth with back-to-back goals from , John Flandina and Chad DeBolt. DeBolt's game-tying 
goal  was  the  first  of  his  
career.  
Brvan Walker scored  his  

second goal of the game 34 seconds after DeBolt's goal to give the Pride a 10-9 lead with eight minutes left in the game. With 30 seconds left, the 
see HOFSTRA/page 21 

• 
Softball vs. Illinois
vs. Valparaiso vs, Western Michigan (DH) (!, Thursday, 4 p.m. 
roday, 3 p.m. .. today, 4 p.m. 
SPORTS 
ATA •

Women's Lacrosse Baseball vs, Iowa 
~ 
at Ohio vs. Western Michigan \c) Friday, 4 p.m. 
GLANCE 
today, 3 p.m. today, 5:05 p.m. 








