
Add some fright to the night
PARTLY 

Thursday

CLOUDY 

Movie critic Matt Nania reviews the "must-see" flicks that should be part of anyone's scary film viewing this Halloween. 

OCTOBER 18, 
HIGH 60° 
Scene . pages 12-13 
2001 
LOW 44° 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 38 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



BOT report to address off-campus moving 
dent leaders feel that the moving out of their dorms. The report includes results dents wanting to move ofT cam­By ERIN LaRUFFA Universitv's Board of Trustees "Notre Dame's campus is from a survey sent out to all pus, according to Tyler
Associate News Editor 
needs to know about that wonderful. and yet we need members of the junior class. Of Jackson, chair of the office of 
trend. students to move off campus to the 439 juniors that responded the president Board of 
Although Notre Dame's 27 Those students, primarily accommodate housing," said to the survey, 45 percent plan Trustees report committee. residence halls form a central from the office of the student Jonathan Jorissen, chief of to live off campus during their As he conducted research for part of traditional undergradu­body president, will present a staff in the otTice of the presi­senior year, while 14 percent the report, Jackson said he ate student life at Notre Dame, report to the Board at its meet­dent. "The primary goal of this remain unsure. noticed that the desire for an increasing number of stu­ing on campus today, address­report is to raise awareness of In addition to addressing this more freedom was one factor dents arc choosing to move off ing the issue of the growing this developing trend at Notre trend itself, the report also motivating students to move off campus --and a group of stu-number of upperclassmen Dame.'' covers possible reasons for stu-campus. 
STUDENT SENATE 
Resolution 
passes for 

excused absences 
By ERIN LaRUFFA 
Associate News Editor 
As Notre Dame seniors begin job interviews this year, many students may encounter an unexpected prob­lem: the University's attendance poli­cy. 
Currently, students can officially receive an excused absence from class in only a limited number of situations, such as the death of an immediate family member. However, the Student Senate would like Notre Dame to change its policy. 
At its meeting Wednesday night, the senate unanimously passed a resolu­tion calling for the University to give seniors some excused absences in order to attend job or graduate school interviews. 
"We thought that interviews were fairly important," said Knott senator Matt Parsons, who wrote the resolu­tion. Many of his fellow senators agreed that such a policy change would be beneficial to students. 
"I think it's a really good amend­ment," said Pasquerilla East senator Nikki McCord. 
The student senate, however, does not have the authority to change the University's attendance policy. The resolution approved by the senators will now go onto the Campus Life Council and Academic Council. 
In addition to passing the resolution, the Senate also discussed the issue of students receiving Residence Life cita­tions while at tailgates prior to foot­ball games. 
"DuLac does read that students can­not have their own tailgates," said student body president Brooke Norton. "It's also interpreted that you can't be at a student-sponsored tail­gate." 
Students who do not adhere to that 
see SENATE/page 6 




Who's busted next? 
. History of police raids prompt questions about which South Bend tavern will fall this year 
By KATIE McVOY 
News Writer 
On Oct. 12, 2000, hundreds of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students made appearances at local bars to celebrate the end of midterms. By the next morning, 147 of them were making appearances at the booking . department of the South Bend Police Department after being cited in a raid on Finnigan's Irish Pub. 
The raid on Finnigan's followed a long history of bar raids that have left Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents facing serious fines and long hours of community service. Fifth­year seniors may still get chills when they hear the name Bridget McGuire's Filling Station, which was raided on Jan. 30, 1998, and seniors may remember that less than 12 months later The Irish Connection (ICON) met with the same fate. 
"You don't expect to be the one that gets cited," said a Saint Mary's junior who was cited at Finnigan's last fall. "And when it happens you spend the next two weeks thinking why you didn't stay home that night." 
Today, the Thursday before fall break, students on both campuses are wondering which bar will go this year and, more specifically, if it will get busted today. 
History A police raid at 
Four different establishments have 
Finnigan's last October 
been the site of raids in the course of the college career of students still on 
netted 147 citations for 
campus, From Bridget's to Finnigan's, raids have generated Norre Dame and Saint more than 300 citations and nearly 
Mary's students. The
$6,000 in fines. The most recent group of citations Finnigan's raid continued came on Jan. 25. when a raid at 
a string of local bar busts
Benchwarmer's Sports Lounge gener­ated 18 citations for "minor in a tav­
that began in January
ern." The Benchwarmer's raid dif­fered from previous raids. Rather 1998 at Bridget McGuire's than shutting down the entire bar 
Filling Station.

while police cited students, music continued to play and drinks were 
. 

still being served as police walked around the establishment and carded photos by 
TONY FLOYD 
see BUSTED/page 4 


page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, October 18, 200 I 
INSIDE COLUMN THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 

Searching for Knute Rockne 
Let's get one thing straight. I don't hate Bob Davie. 1 think he's a decent guy, and no matter how many times I've put the f-word in front of his name (hundreds}. it's a shame he didn't work out. 
I think it's fair to say Notre Dame is currently on the market for a new coach. But it's not like Monk, Kevin & Co. are looking for a rug to match their sofa. They're looking for some­one that will guide Notre Dame football for years to come. 
And because I'm 20 years old and think I know every­thing, nay, do know every­thing, I'm going to give Notre Dame some advice about finding our new Knute Rockne. 
Davie was never the first choice after Lou left. Now, with Davie presum­ably "leaving" (as we all know, Notre Dame never fires anyone, they "resign"), we need to go out and get our first choice. Whatever the cost. Davie and Gerry Faust both came cheap, and look what happened. 
If our first choice is Jon Gruden, head coach of the Raiders and the kind of young, vulgar firebrand we need. and he wants five million bones to coach here, by all means PAY IT. Give him a private jet and a butler named Jeeves. The investment will be well worth it, if we are in national title contention. 
More wins equals more money for the University.For the love of winning, get some­body with previous head coaching experience. Notre Dame is not for people starting to be head coaches, it is for head coaches. It is the most high profile job in college sports. We want the Skipper, not Gilligan. 
Get a guy that loves Notre Dame. I think one of the reasons Lou was so successful is because he loved Notre Dame, and he and his life became synonymous with the Irish. Davie, for whatever reason, has not seemed to embody Notre Dame completely like Lou did. 
Hire somebody that will shake things up. The offense of today is the spread attack, with more wide receivers to stretch the defense. The option, while effective when run perfectly, is going out of style because linebackers and defensive lineman are getting faster. It's fair to say that Notre Dame does not run the option perfectly. We need a coach that isn't afraid to shake up the offense, install a new system, and bring some unpredictability to the Irish offense. And throw to the tight end! The next head coach of Notre Dame should be the embodi­ment of everything Notre Dame. as a universi­ty, hopes to become in the next 10 years. 
The next head coach should sweat charisma, and bleed coaching talent. Because while Monk leads the University of Notre Dame, the head football coach leads the Notre Dame Nation: every student, alumni, subway alumni, fan, and watcher of NBC on Saturday afternoons in the fall. 
We need a coach who will rally the entire 

Notre Dame Nation. 
We need a fearless leader. 
We need a legend. 

The views expressed in the inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS /CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and mives for rhe highesr standard, of journalism at all rime,. We do, however, rerngnizc that we will make mist.1kcs. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-454 I so we can correct our error. 

The Ohserver (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Frid.,y excel)r du ring ex,1111 ;:111d v,1('.;ltion periods. Tl1~ Observer is a memLc, of thl· A.s.o.:iued Pf('§..). AJI reprodw,;rion ,ighc.s. :ue res.erved. 
Thursday  Friday  Saturday  Sunday  
. Lecture: "The Economist  . Religious Service:  . Event: 'The Golden  . Concert: South Bend  
and the Preacher: The  Dedicalion Mass for Hev.  Ort>am" booksigning, hy  Symphony (chamber  
Gospel of fireodom Meets  Edward /\. Malloy, C.S.C.  Gerry Faust, former ND  orchestra), O'Laughlin  
Lhe Dismal Sdence."  llall, Basilica ol' the Sacred  head football coach.  Auditorium, Moreau  
Jordan Auditorium,  lleart, 4:30 p.m.  Hammes Notre Dame  Center. 3 p.m.  Call  
Mendoza College of  Bookstore. 11 :30 a.m.­ (219)235-9190 for tickets.  
Business, 4:30 p.m.  12:30 p.m.  

Compiled from U-Wire reports

BEYOND CAMPUS 
A&M bonfire memorial designs to be unveiled 
COLLEGE STATION, Texas artists, landscape architects, archi­
The four finalists in the Bonfire tects. planners, engineers, designers Memorial competition will be and students. unveiled Nov. 18, the second According to information provided anniversary of the Texas A&M on the Bonfire Memorial Web site, Bonfire collapse. A total of 182 individuals and teams who partic­designs were submitted since March ipated in this competition had to 2001 by professional designers, stu­meet certain objectives and imple­dents, facultv and artists. On Nov. ment them within their designs. 
18. the four finalists, as well as those The future Bonfire Memorial will who will be receiving honorable portray remembrance of the 12 mentions will be announced and Aggies who wen' killed and of the 27
' 

their designs put on display for the who were injured in the 1999 Aggie public. tions the jury puts forth." The nine­Bonfire collapse. The design also "This is only phase one," said member jury of professionals and must capture the Aggie spirit and the Chang-Shan Huang, associate pro­members of the A&M community will teamwork the Bonfire tradition has 
narrow down the designs to its final
fessor of landscape architecture and shown over the past 90 years. competition manager. "After the four four choices. Students and the public are finalists are announced, phase two The competition has solicited encouraged to attend the public dis­begins and the teams or individuals designs from both professionals and play of the designs that will take will have time to refine their designs amateurs. and has been open to all place Oct. 20 to Oct. 28. 
and implement changes or sugges-
BROWN UNIVERSITY 
Middle East courses are popular 
PHOVIDENCE, R.I. 

Schools around the country have reported a surge of interest in courses and lectures on the Middle East, Islam and foreign policy, but professors disagree about whether or not it will outlive the conflict in Afghanistan. Columbia University professor of history Richard Bulliet, whose focus is Islamic and Middle Eastern history. said, "All professors in the field believe there will be an increase in interest in this area." Though it is hard to see now, he said there will be heightened interest in college courses, graduate school applications and jobs in related fields. Bulliet said Columbia students are showing "a distinct inter­est in Middle Eastern related courses." Ile said he teaches two history courses, and the one on the history of Islamic society has a substantially higher turnout. The attendance is significant given that it is the middle of the semester, when students tend to skip classes, he said, In addition, three students have asked to sit in on his class since Sept. 11. 
LOCAL WEATHER UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN 
Schools ban drinking specials 
MADISON, Wis. 

Bars' drink specials are a cheap alternative for penny-pinching students. But this advantage leaves many university officials and parents fretting. They say the very thing that makes bars so appealing is also what makes them so dangerous. Drink specials are the culprits that contribute to binge drinking, say officials at University of Wisconsin. Critics argue that specials encourage students to drink as much as they can, as quickly as they can. But the idea of regulating drink specials in bars has sparked considerable opposition. Skeptics say banning drink specials is unfair to tavern owners and will merely push students to drink in unsu­pervised settings. But this has not stopped universities from trying. Iowa City passed a measure this year ban­ning drink specials. Proponents said it would help alle­viate binge drinking. But whether it is successful is yet to be seen. The city is still compiling data on the effects of the new restrictions. including whether unregulated house parties have increased. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
S Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather" forecast for daytime conditions and high 1empera1ures 

The AccuWeatheri> forecast for noon,Thursday, Oct. 18. Lines separate h1gll temperature zones for the day 
Friday ~ Saturday ~ 
i 
Sunday ~ Monday Q
"' "' .,,,,.
; 
........... 

~; ~ 2001 A.ceu.Weath&t, Inc. SlAT!ONAAY 
PrHtlJI•·
Tuesday 
"-i. .. "-' 
.-...,,,.­

®© ...... 
High LllW $howera Rain T~slorms Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloud! _Elo~dy 
Atlanta 6€ 39 las Vegas 83 57 Portland 60 47
Q,Q,QGQ.Q {) ~ u 
Baltimore 60 35 Memphis 72 57 Sacramento 84 49 
Showers r:storms R8111 FfLJ.rries s:;~~ Ice Sunny Pr. Cloudy C1011d.V 
Boston 57 42 Milwaukee 58 46 St Louis 65 46 
Via Assoc1llted Pres;> Grlfp,'1ic:sNfll 
Chicago 60 43 New York 59 40 Tampa 80 65 Houston 75 56 Philadelphia 59 41 Washington DC 61 43 



Thursday, October 18, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Sex forum focuses on morality 
By JILL MAX.BAUER 
News Wmer 
The second forum in the Saint Mary's sexuality series "Understanding and Embracing Our Sexuality" was held Wednesday night, focusing on moral choices and decision-mak­ing. 
An icebreaking activity using a blindfolding exercise ki~ked off lhe evening. 
Small groups formed and one student in oach group was blind­folded by facilitators. The blind­folded individual had to navigate her way through ubstacles in lhe room. The exercise was per­formed twice, once with a guide helping the student navigate, and once without. 
The purpose of the exercise was to identily those to whom we listen for guidance, especially in decision-making situations, according to facilitators. 
The meeting progressed into a large group discussion, which began wiLh a fishbowl model of conversation. Topics ranged from the sexual views that women acquire from parents. media and peer pressure, virgin­ity, the ways men and women differ in their sexual ideas, to moral questions posed by group leaders. 
One moral issue was the ques­tion of time -how long is "long enough" before one has sex if they decide not to wait until mar­riage. The group decided that them is no magic number, but rather each situation should be judged by the level of commit­ment. which ideally seems to be marriage. 
Another topic in the group was whether or not a Catholic would be making a mistake by engag­ing in premarital sex. 
Sister Kathleen Dolphin echoed the purpose of the discussion. 
"Our goal is honest discussion about sexuality and how to make decisions regarding sexual mat­ters in a safe and open environ­ment," she said. "Sex must be a personal decision, not influenced by outside pressures ... The biggest thing we can do for our­selves is to be educated as to why we are making a decision and follow our own ideas," she said. 
The evening concluded with a prayer and the participants were asked to compleLe evaluations. While they were leaving, stu­dents commented that the evening was thought-provoking. 
"I came not knowing what to expect, but the conversation was verv beneficial. 1 think the lead­ers· really made us think, about morals. our behavior and what roles outside pressures play," junior Emily Miller said. 
Thi> next forum will be held Nov. 14 in Stapleton Lounge of LeMans Hall and the topic will be dating choices. 
ContactJill Maxbauer at maxb3126@saintmarys.edu 

Walsh to deliver Hofman lecture 
Special to The Observer 
Patrick Walsh, professor of surgery and direc­tor of the James Buchanan Brady Urological Institute at the Johns Hopkins Hospital, will deliver Notre Dame's ninth annual Emil T. Hofman lecture at 10 a.m. Saturday in the DeBartolo llall auditorium. 
Titled "The War on Prostate Cancer." the lec­ture is free and opPn to the public. Walsh is best known for his pioneering work 
in the development of an anatomical approach to prostate surgery involving nerve-sparing techniques that have reduced the possibility of impotence and incontinence. He also has made major contributions to the basic understanding of benign and malignant neoplasms of the prostate. 
Walsh is on the editorial board of the New England Journal of Medicine, is the editor-in­chief of "Campbell's Textbook of Urology," and is a member of the Institute of Medicine of the ~alional Academy of Sciences. 
Survivor urges end to domestic violence 
By SARAH NESTOR 
News Writer 
Diane Swartz spokP Wednesday at Saint Mary's in conjunction with the "\'WCA's "Week Without Violence" and Domestic Abuse Awareness Month. 
"A lot of people think you have to be quiet and ashamed as a victim of abuse. I have nothing to be ashamed of, I wasn't an abuser," Swartz said. 
Swartz is a survivor of domestic abuse and the author of the book "\'\'hose Face is in the Mirror?" 
Swartz, a former Miss Arizona, was a self-employed businesswoman when she mar­ried her first husband. After one month of marriage he became physically and emo­tionallv abusive. 
Swartz stayed with her first husband until she admitted to herself that she was a victim of domestic violence. 
"For a long time I was more afraid of what people would think. I was ashamed and in a big world of denial," Diane said. 
Statistics estimate that an American woman is abused · every 15 seconds, equaling nearly 6,000 women per day. Domestic violence occurs in more than half of all American homes and 40 percent of all female homicide victims are 
murdered by the men in their lives. Battery is the single major cause of injury to women, totaling more injuries than rapes, muggings and automobile accidents com­bined. 
Not only are many women negatively affected by abusive relationships, but their chil­dren suffer too. Between 50 to 75 percent of male batterers also ahusc their children and 63 percent of incarcerated males between the ages of 11 and 20 are in prison for mur­dering their mother's batterer. 
"If you won't get out of an abusive relationship for your­self, please get out of the rela­tionship for your children," Swartz said. 
Swartz is now remarried and lives in Ohio where she and her daughter Brandy began a pro­gram center that educates women about domestic vio­lence.. 
"I want to be a preventative and not a Band-Aid of domestic abuse," Diane said. 
Brandy Swartz, who intro­duced her mother, works with her to educate teenagers and young women about the dan­gers of domestic abuse. 
"[Diane is] an amazing, strong woman." Brandy said. "Our mission is to help people understand the mind of a bat­tered woman." 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu 


MD AFTER FIVE 


ThursdalJ, 10/18 7:00 p.m. Department of Art, Art History, and Design: Erika Rothenberg lecture, McKenna Hall, ETS Theatre 7:00 p.m. ND Cinema, American Movie, Carey Auditorium, Hesburgh Library* 7:00 p.m. Marketing Career Forum, Jordan Auditorium 8:30 p.m. -10:30 p.m. Drop In Lacrosse, Rolfs 8:30 p.m. -Midnight ND Express Pool Room open, free billiards, LaFortune Student Center 9:00 p.m. -12:00 a.m. The Best of Acoustic Cafe, LaFortune Student Center Ballroom 10:00 p.m. -1 :OO a.m. Club Underclass (all freshmen and sophomore dance), Alumni Senior Club This ad is published by the Student Activities Office. Programs subject to change without notice. * All programs are free to ND students unless marked by an"*".  Fridaa,, 10/ 19 5:00 p.m. -7:00 p.m. Drop In Badminton, Rolfs (begins at 4) 5:45 p.m. Blessing and Tours of Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. Hall 6:00 p.m. Football Pep Rally, Joyce Center. Doors open for students at 5:30 p.m. 6:00 p.m. Men's and Women's Tennis vs. USC, Eck Tennis Pavilion 7:30 p.m. Women's Swimming vs. MSU, Rolfs Aquatic Center 8:00 p.m. 807 Mass, Lounge, Coleman Morse Center 9:00 p.m. Crafting Corner: Pumpkin Carving and Painting, Dooley Room, LaFortune Student Center 10:00 p.m. -2:00 a.m. Okdomerfest1 LaFortune Student Center Ballroom 11 :00 p.m. Tournament Fridays, Bingo, LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame Room 12:00 a.m. ND Band Drum Line  Saturdaa,r 10/20 45 minutes after Football Game ends: Mass in Stepan Center One Hour after Football Game ends: The Undertones, Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 7:30 p.m. Men's Soccer vs. Boston College, Alumni Field LaFortune Student Center Fall Break Hours • Fri. 10/19 7:00 a.m -2:00 a.m. • Sat. 10/20 7:00 a.m -Midnight • Sun. 10/21 8:00 a.m. -8:00 p.m. • Mon.-Fri. 10/22-10/26 7:00 a.m. -8:00 p.m. • Sat. 10/27 8:00 a.m. -8:00 p.m. • Sun. 10/28 8:00 a.m . -2:00 a.m. The 24 hour Lounge will re-open on  

Monday 10/29
rf t "d M . Bid 

FOR MORE INFOR._,.ATIOMr VISIT: w,vw.nd.edu/-sao/ 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, Ocrober 18, 2001 
students were cited and write some citations because follows and if the student has quences from Notre Dame or Bridget's Jost its liquor license if you have three or four hun­not been found drinking Saint Mary's.
Busted 
in the ensuing court hearings. dred kids and 150 are in vio­again, the charges are dis­Bridget's, ICON and 
continued from page 1 Bridget's is now Molly lation it would take forever so missed. Finnegan's all lost their liquor McGuire's, a coffee house we assist in whatever way "Its nice to know that the licenses. 
students. serving the local population of 
"For years, people have South Bend. 
been making IDs. We check Not even a year later, on 
pretty close,'' said Steve Nov. 12, 1998, students danc­
Mitchell, the owner or ing at ICON were surprised by 
Rench-warmer's at the time. the Indiana State Excise Police 
"But with these new IDs it is in a raid that generated 95 
really tough to tell whi-ch ones citations for having minors in 
are fake and which ones are the establishment. ICON, like 
real." Bridget's, lost its license and 
To most students still on 
now acts as an alcohol free 
campus, however, the most dance club catering to under­familiar of these raids age patrons.occurred just a little more 
The raid · 
than a year ago. Around 1:30 Raids on bars come from a 
a.m. on Oct. 13. 2000. the 
combined effort between the 
Thursday night before the Indiana State Excise police 
start of fall break, 147 stu­and the South Bend Police 
dents were cited as "minor in Department. If the Exeise has 
a tavern" by South Bend 
received numerous complaints
Police and the Indiana State 
that an establishment is serv­
Excise Police at Finnigan's. 
ing minors. action is tahn. 
. After sealing off exits at the 
"They get so many com­
tavern. police cleared out all 
plaints and then they will patrons who were 21 and 
over, and then began issuing citations to students who were under­age. Students were not arrested unless they tried to exit the bar with a form of fake identification. 
In Januarv 
1 9 9 8 ·, although owner Karen Bauer claimed she was 
react whenever they have time or deem it neces­
"We do have officers 
sary," South that write some H1rnd Police 
cita(ions because if Capt. John 
Williams
you have three or four 
said.
hundred kids and 

Once Lhe I 50 are in violation, raid has been orga­
it would take forever 
nized, the 
so we assist in 

local author­
whatever way possible." ities are called in to assist.
Capt. John Williams 

"We usual-
South Bend police 

ly assist them in 
unaware of it. Bridget's was whatever they ask," Williams the most popular bar for said. "The cooperation underage drinkers. between any police depart­
"They found minors that ment is 150 percent." night, but my question is Depending on the size of the 'Where did all the fake !D's raid. the police may assist in come from,"' Bauer said sealing off the location or 
shortly after the raid. handing out citations. On that night, close to 100 "We do have officers that 
possible," Williams said. charges were dismissed," a Twenty cited student years ago, who did not
"After being cited at
the South wish to be
Finnigan 's, I wonder
Bend Police named said. organized what bar will get "That way it their own shouldn't
busted this year. There 
raids. When affect me get­
are still lots ofpeople
bars such as ting a job or the original that get into bars anything." Corby's and In addition
using Jakes. " 

Nicky's were to facing raided. the 
penalties from 

Saint Mary's junior
South Bend the Saint Police vice Joseph squad orga-County. Notre 
nized raids themselves. Now, 

Dame students also faced however, organized raids arc 
fines from Residence Lil'e and Housing. Students received
a result of the Excise Police $100 fines from the
and are a combination of' sev­University.
eral police forces. Students at Saint Mary's,
"We usually have, depending however. did not face any
on what the operation is. 

additional penalties. Collegesometimes we havfl support policy did not allow for the
from Saint Joe County officers College to lake action against

and also Mishawaka," 

students involved in underageWilliams said. 
drinking off campus,
The aftermath 

Students cited in the raids 
Consequences ~r belng 

on ICON and Bridget's did not 
cited as an underage patron 

face any additional conse­
have varied from raid to raid. During the raid on Finnigan 's 
What now? 
Because of bars such as Bridget's and Pinnigan's, bar owners have become more careful about who th(iy allow into their establishments. 
According to C:aptain John Williams of lhe South Bend Police Department, there have been fewer raids on underage bars because or owner's cau­tion. 
"There could he several rea­sons [for fower raids] and that could be one of the most important, the fact that bar owners are more careful checking IDs." he said. 
However, underage students still frequent bars and there are many still wondering if a bar will meet its end this year. 
"After being cited at Finnigan's, I wonder what bar will get busted this year." the Saint Mary's junior said. "Then~ arc still lots of people that get into bars using fakes." 
Contact Katie McVoy at S69S@saintma.rys.edu 
most students were cited for being a "minor in a tavern," a class C misdemeanor which carries with it a maximum 

IU.NNWI
fine of $500, a possible six 

-YOUR FAMJLY RJN CENT.ER"'
months in prison and tho loss of a driver's license. "It's usually minor consump­

•el&ICI NICHT tion or minor in possession," Williams said. "You may not 
MONDAYS & THURSDAYS 
be in violation of anything but 

9PM-12 MIDNIGHT
being a minor in a tavern." Most students cited in the 

UNLIMITED BOWLING 
raid were offered the option of pretrial diversion. Pretrial 

~:s.oo 
diversion offers students who 

$~ PER PERSON
have no previous record the option to pay a $220 fine and 

SHOES INCLUDED 
do 40 hours of community ser­

Beacon Bowt--42.1 O Uncomway w. South Bend
vice. A one-year period of time 

214-4167 
International Study Programs 152 Hurley Building T: 631-5882 

SO MANY OPTIONS TO CHOOSE FROM ... 

THE SUMMER SERVICE PROJECT INTERNSHIP 
. 
Devote 8weeks to the service of those in need 

. 
Choose from over 120 sites across the United States 

. 
Earn 3theology credits (with possible crosslists) 

. 
Receive a$2900• tuition scholarship (including Americorps funding)


/,fit!~--cm 
~ 

-
.. . . 
Establish valuable contacts with Notre Dame alumni SOCIAL 
NC1111QAM4 
~ 

INNSBRUCK 
2002-03 Academic Year 
Come and meet Professor Gemot Giirtler, Director of the Innsbruck Program 
Wednesday, October 31, 2001 119 DEBARTOLO 7:00 PM 
Applications Available www/nd.edu/~intlstud Questions? -Weber.15@nd.edu Application Deadline: December 1 
Informational Meetings at the Center for Social Concerns: 
Thursday, October 18, 2001 6:00 PM Wednesday, November 7, 2001 7:00 PM Wednesday, November 28, 2001 7:00 PM 
W'1,RL
............ ATION 
Thursday, October 18, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES . page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Israel's tourism minister killed: 
lsriwl's tourism minister, a retired general who advor,ated the exp·ulsion of Palestinians l'rom the West Bank and Gaza, was assassinat­ed W(:dnesday in a hotel hallway -a killing claimed by a radical Palestinian group, lfohavam Zeevi, 75, was the first Cabinet min­islf'r to be slain by Palestinians. llis killing provokPd outrilgc in Israel and rais\~d the specWr of a new outburst of violenre at a time whrn lsrad and the Palestinians are trying to patch up a shaky U.S.-supported truce deal. 
Jihad recruiter signs up workers: 
Pakistani border zones -where pro-Taliban 
· sentiment runs high, wlrnre radical Islamk par­ti(:s have a large following, wherr n·ligious srhools, or madrassas, exhort students to fight th!; infidels -are proving fertile recruiting grounds for thfl war next door. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Preliminary tests link anthrax cases: 
Prnliminary teslc; show the anthrax sent to NBC in New York and a tabloid newspaper company in Florida wen~ the same strain. and the FBI is pursuing "substantive leads" in the investiga­tion into who may have sent the bacteria, ofli­cials said Wednesday. Law enforcement and other U.S. ofiidals said there was no evidence so far of foreign terrorist involvement in the anthrax attacks, although they continue to investigate that possibility. One official said some evidence might suggest a domestic source. 
Jury seated for O.J. Simpson trial: 
An Pight-memoer jury was selected behind dosed doors Wednesd~y for the road-rage trial of former football player (U. Simpson. Simpson farrs up to 16 years in prison if convicted of felony auto burgla1·y and misdemeanor battery charges ovPr an encountt•r with a motorist on Dec.4.2000. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Area code boundaries approved: 
State utility regulators on Wednesday approved changes in the boundaries for northern Indiana's new telephone area codes and set a January starting date for the new codes. The Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission changed the boundaries it set in July for the three-way split of the 219 area code after several commu­nities voiced concerns about their assignments Northwestern Indiana is keeping the 219 area code. The Fort Wayne area will receive the 260 area code, and the South Bend-Mishawaka­Elkhart area Indiana will have 574. 
Market Watch October 17 

Dow 9,232.97 -151.26 
)i0fones  •  Composite  
Same:193 D··.....•.·..·.·•·w·•.•,··..•·n·••···•···1:97,  Volume:NIA  
AMEX:  823.01  -7 .52  
NASDAQ:  l ,646.34  -75.73  
NYSE:  557.92  -7.35  
S&P 500:  1,077.09  -20.45  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
::OMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
~ASDAQ 100 INDEX (QQQ) -7.18 -2.51 34.45 [NTEL CORP (INTC) -1.56 -0.39 24.57 :ISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -8.07 -1.37 15.60 )UN MICROSYSTEMS (SUNW) -8. 43 -0. 81 8. 80 :MC CORP/MASS (EMC). -16.65 -0.24 11.21 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Thirty-one Senate employees tested positive for anthrax exposure, offi­cials said Wednesday as the threat of bioterrorism rattled Capitol Hill. Hundreds more lined up nervously to be tested and leaders ordered the shut­down of the House and three Senate office build­ings. 
"We're in a battle with terrorism, a new form of human warfare," said House Democratic leader Dick Gephardt. Officials confirmed evidence of exposure in a second 
Senate office -adjacent to Majority Leader Tom Daschle's suite where an anthrax-spiked letter was opened earlier this week ­as well as spores in a cen­tralized mail room in a building across the street. 
"It is treatable," Daschle added emphatically at a news conference later in the day, and officials said the strain that was found responds readily to a range of antibiotics. 
House leaders shut down operations through the weekend to allow for extensive testing. "To ensure safety, we thought it best to do a complete sweep, an environmental sweep," said Speaker Dennis Hastert, R-Ill. The Senate announced plans to close all three of its sprawl­ing office buildings, but in a gesture of defiance aimed at terrorists, made plans to convene on Thursday. 

Hastert and Gephardt appeared together at mid­morning to announce that the House would shut down. The speaker made the initial disclosure that 29 people had tested posi­tive in the Senate, and said spores had been found in the Senate mailroom. He also said· evidence of anthrax had been found in the Senate's ventilation system and tunnels. 
Senate officials quickly spread the word that wasn't the case, then sug­gested House leaders had overreacted with the deci­sion to curtail business. 
Hastert said House and Senate leaders had agreed on that course of action earlier in the day, but it appeared some senators balked, not wanting to give the impression of flinching in the face of a threat. 
A law enforcement offi­cial, speaking on condition of anonymity, confirmed that the letters sent to Brokaw and Daschle both contained the messages: "Death to America. Death to Israel. Allah is great." 

Bush outlines $20B spending plan 
$6.3 billion earmarked to help New approval.
Associated Press 
York, the site of the World Trade "This funding installment aggres­
WASHINGTON Center attacks, and $6.4 billion for sively addresses the nation's most crit­
The Bush administration on national security efforts, a category ical, immediate problems: fighting ter­Wednesday said it would seek $2.8 that includes increased Defense rorism abroad, defending Americans billion to fight bioterrorism threats as Department spending to help wage in our homeland and repairing the part of a $20 billion emergency spend­the war on terrorism. damage evil has done in New York ing pact<age approved by Congress in While the administration had the and elsewhere," Daniels said. response to the Sept. 11 terrorist power to spend half of the package But members of New York's con­attacks. subject only to review by Congress. gressional delegation have already 
Under the proposal, which must be thA other half of the package is subject begun to complain that the adminis­approved by Congress, the adminis­to Congress' normal budget process, tration's plans would not provide tration would spend $6.9 billion on . which means the spending priorities them with the $20 billion in support homeland security with the largest could be changed by lawmakers. for New York that had been promised portion of that -$2.8 bill.ion -ear­Mitchell R Daniels Jr., head of the out of the $40 billion package. 0MB marked for upgrading the country's president's Office of Management and officials said the goal is to provide prPpardeness to deal with biological Budget, told reporters the administra­New York with $20 billion in foderal and chemical threats. tion believed it had come up with a support but that it will not all come 
The proposal also budgets $6.7 bil­good spending plan which should be from the emergency spending pack­lion for domestic recovery efforts with able to win speedy congressional age. 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 18, 2001 
Report 
continued from page I 

"They grow to be more inde­pendent at the end of their junior years," he said. He also added that many students feel that living off campus during their senior year is a step toward the greater indepen­dence they will have after dents who remain in dorms are more likely to leave cam­pus to socialize. He said that he has spoken to several resi­dent assistants (RAs) who have noticed this trend, even among freshmen. 
Outside of dorms themselves, Jorissen said that a greater percentage of students living off campus means that there is a lower level of involvement among upper­classmen in stu­
graduation. "Some students feel dent organiza­"Some stu­tions.
this is a halfway
dents feel this is "Most of the 
a halfway house to reality." leadership roles house to reali­are being taken ty," said up by sopho­
Tyler Jackson 

Jackson. mores and
BOT report chairperson 
juniors, and the
Student lead­ers also intend to describe potential effects of more students living off cam­pus, both on the students who move off and on the under­grad uate community as a whola. 
"It takes away from the tra­ditional dorm life Notre Dame has had with the whole popu­lation living on campus," said Jackson. 
in part, according to Jorisscn, with more students living off campus, even stu-
Senate 
continued from page 1 
policy are likely to receive a citation, according to Norton. However, students are not prohibited from attending all tailgates. 
hosted by non-stu­dents. 
"If you are at a tailgate where there is food and 

it's obvi-Norton ously a social gathering, there's less of a chance [of getting ticket­ed]," said Norton. 
Although the policy is not new this football season, many students were surprised to receive citations for violat­ing the policy. "They're enforcing it a lot more this year," said Alumni senator Matt Lafratta. 
Norton added that according to University officials, increased enforcement of the policy is intended to cut down on alcohol-related problems, such as the playing of drink-
SPRING BREAK 2002 

seniors are out of the picture," said Jorissen. 
A committee of approximate­ly 25 students created the report with the help of some administrators. Junior class president Matt Smith. as well as off-campus co-presidents George Remus and Amy Sellers. also contributed statis­tical information to the report. according to Jackson. 
Contact Erin LaRuffa at d:u-uffa@nd.edu 
ing games and public urina­tion. 
Residence hall presidents also discussed tailgating at the most recent Hall Presidents Council (HPC) meeting, according to Adam Russ, the HPC liaison to the senate. Russ added that the council encouraged presidents to remind students in their dorms not to host or attend student tailgates. 
Students who receive cita­tions for tailgating do have the opportunity to have a dis­ciplinary conference, accord­ing to Norton, and peer advo­cates are available to students facing such conferences. 
In other senate news: 
. The University has ordered parts needed to repair the clock on O'Shaughnessy Hall, according to LaFratta. "It should be up and running by the beginning of next semes­ter," he said. 
Contact Erin LaRuffa at elacuffa@nd.edu 
ICL expands distance learning 
Special to The Observer 
An expanded selection of STEP eCourses will be offered in 2001-0 2 by the Institute for Church Life at Notre Dame, beginning Monday with "The American Catholic Experience," taught by Jay Dolan. professor of history, and "Introduction to Sacraments," taught by Father Joseph Weiss, acting director of the University's Center for Pastoral Liturgy. 
STEP (Satellite Theological Education Program) is a dis­tance-learning initiative that provides quality instruction to pastoral ministers and other adult Catholics across the United States. The six­week courses are available through the ICL's Web site http://www.nd.edu/-icl and feature Notre. Dame faculty who provide instruction, reading materials, syllabi, and course study require­ments. Participants receive a . certificate of completion upon the conclusion of each course. 

"This is an exciting initia­tive that furthers the mission of Notre Dame," said STEP director Thomas Cummings. "By placing the theological. pedagogical, and technologi­cal resources of Notre Dame at service to the broader Church, we are able to assist in the faith formation of adults from dioceses and parishes across the country." 
After a successful pilot year in which three eCourses were offered during 2000-01, STEP has expanded to six courses this year. In addition to the two starting in October, two courses will begin in January -"An Introduction to the Letters of St. Paul," taught by Rev. Jerome Neyrey, S.J., 
professor of theology, and "Eucharist: Source and Summit of the Christian Life," to be taught Father Weiss ­and two more will begin in March -"The Christian Conscience and Ethical Dilemmas: Guidance from the Catholic Tradition," to be taught by Maura Ryan. asso­ciate professor of theology, and "From Proclamation to Scripture: An Introduction to Biblical Literary Forms in the Gospels," taught by Rev. Michael Driscoll, C.S.C., asso­ciate professor of theology. 
In the future, STEP orga­nizers plan to offer multiple course components in differ­ent theological subjects that students may use as continu­ing education for their min­istry or as adult education for their edification and faith development. 
More information is avail­able on the ICL Web site. 

Help with study design, run forecasting models, analyze/summarize results, prepare reports and presentations and attend client meetings. This position can lead to even greater responsibility in client service/analysis. A Bachelor's degree in Business, Marketing, a liberal Arts field, or Social Sciences with a minimum 3.0 cumulative GPA required. Strong writing and analytical skills a must. Contact your Career Services Office to learn more about our campus visit and interview sign-ups. If you can't meet with us on campus, send your resume to: Professional Recruit• 
'0'­ment, 50 West RiverCenter Blvd., Suite 600, Covington, KY 
41011. Fax: (859) 905-5005. 

)51\C~lelsen BASES 
See tomorrow, toda.v.
www.bases.com 




Fresco 
-Catalino's Tratwria Downtr,wn South Bend 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
-Used Books bought anc1 sold 
•2S C,tegori~ of Boou -25,000 Hardback 1J1d Paperbllc:k book! in stock 
.Out-of-Print search service 
•Appraisals large and small 
'··"' --Open noon to' •Ix .. ·· Tuesday through Sunday 1021 E. Wayne · South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-3444 

(Q)J]leg 
NJ<O)rreg s-~~i 
"A true story ofCommitment, Trust, and Love" 
Written by Jim Connelly Forward by Lou Holtz 
Miraculousf;v awakening.from a 48-day coma! One More Sum.et is an extraordinary account ofa woman :S· brush with death and her courageous fight to live. This 
book chronicles a 16 year journey ofrecovery and renewal. 
"An inspirational hook! The true story oflhe relationship of two 
remarkable pcrsons ... kaves the reader tnily inspired."• -Fr. Theodore 1\1. Hesburgh C.S.C. President Emeritus, University ofNotre Dame 
"Everyone should read this hook." -Fr. Edmond Joyce. C.S.C Vice President Emeritus, University ofNotre Dume 
Avai Iable at the Notre Dame Bookstore or at www.oncmoresunset.com -1-888-305-4588 Or send check for $19.00 payable to 011e More Srmsel: 


Sbamrock Intl. Publishing 
P.O. Box 636 -Notre Dame, IN 46556 
We have lunch buffet seven days a week; $5 for students 
. 

10% discount for all 
students and staff. 
. 

We are at the corner of Grape · Roaa Er McKinely at K-Mart Plaza. 
. 

Phone: 254-9070 
... . 
Lunch Buffet Student $5 · 
Thursday, October 18, 2001 The Observer . NEWS page 7 
Colu01bine settlements reached 
Minn. college profs­
allege anti-Semitism 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS 

Three professors who allege they have been denied promo­tions and equal pay because of anti-Semitism are suing St. Cloud State University for dis­crimination. · 
The professors filed suit Wednesday claiming depart­ment administrators dispar­age classes taught by Jewish professors and allege they're not given full credit for former teaching 
versity is reviewing the com­plaint filed today and does not intend to comment on its mer­its," the university and the Minnesota State Colleges and University system said in a joint statement Wednesday. 
History professor Arie Zmora, who left St. Cloud State last summer after two years, alleges in the lawsuit that he was denied an inter­view for a tenure-track posi­tion after giving a lecture on the Holocaust. 
The school has said the 
search committee 
experience. felt Zmora didn't
"It's time to fix the 

"It's time to have the highest
problem. There have 

fix the prob­qualifications of lem. There been decades of all the candidates have been for the tenured
anti-Semitism at 

de cati e s o f. position.
St. Cloud State."· 

a n t i -History profes-Semitism at sor Laurinda St. Cloud Judy Schermer Stryker claims a State," said rec:ommendation
attorney

J u d y Schermer. a lawyer rep­resenting the professors and a 
non-Jewish student who joined the lawsuit. "We feel there have been enough inves­tigations." 
A university-commissioned report by the Jewish Community Relations Council of Minnesota and the Dakotas concluded in July that the uni­versity exhibited a "strong perception" of anti-Semitism. 
In response, university President Roy Saigo said the school acted on some con­cerns but noted the July rep·ort was based on anecdotal evidence. 
"When concerns are raised, the university takes appropri­ate steps to nispond. The uni-
for her non-
retention was in 
retaliation for speaking out against the dis­crimination. 
Robbi Hoy, a non-Jewish student, alleges the dean of the social sciences department changed her grade from an "A" to an incomplete after she helped organize a discussion about discrimination. 
The lawsuit seeks unspeci­fied monetary damages and class action status, but Schermer said she's unsure how many people would be covered under a class-action suit. Of the 750 faculty mem­bers, about 20 identify them­selves as Jewish. 
Of about 16,500 students, about a dozen openly identify themselves as Jewish. 
Associated Press Kirklin and Mark Taylor and the Castaldos filed motions Wednesday to dismiss their 
DENVER lawsuits against the parents or Families of Columbine High gunman Eric Harris. 

School shooting victims have Harris and Dylan Klebold finalized a settlement of their 

killed 12 students and a 
lawsuits against the gunmen's teacher and wounded 26 peo­parents and some of the peo­

ple before taking their own 
ple who provided guns used in lives on April 20, 1999. 

the massacre. 

Cederberg said more 
About 30 families needed 

motions would follow for the 
several months to work out 

other plaintiffs and defendants details of the $2.85 million set­
named in the settlement. A 
tlement, said Jim Cederberg, attorney for the family of Richard Castaldo, who was wounded at Columbine. 
"It's just taken this long to all get sort­ed out and the 
funds to get disbursed," he 

ers have settled with some 
said. 

defendants but not others. 
Details were not disclosed. 

Parents Wayne and Kathy
None of the families was told 

Harris and Sue and Tom 
the amount of money the oth­

Klebold, have agreed to pay 
ers received, Cederberg said. 

about $1.6 million total. 
The families of wounded stu­

Mark Manes and Philip
dents Sean Graves, Lance 
judge must sign them before the

"It's just taken this 
lawsuits are

long to all get sorted · officially dis­
out and the funds to missed. Thirty-six
get disbursed." 

families were involved in talks Jim Cederberg over the origi­nal settlement.
attorney 
Some refused to settle, and oth­Duran, who pleaded guilty to charges of providing a semiau­tomatic handgun to the gun­men, agreed to pay a com­bined $1 million. Duran, who worked with Harris 

·and Klebold at a pizza store, introduced them to Manes, who sold them the gun for $500. 
An additional $300,000 came from the insurance com­pany of Hobyn Anderson's family. 
Anderson legally bought two shotguns and a rifle for Harris and Klebold. 
The lawsuits alleged the par­ents were negligent by allow­ing their sons to amass the weapons used in the rampage. 
Families are still pursuing lawsuits against three men who worked for a gun show where Anderson helped Harris and Klebold buy the three weapons. 
The families also have sued the sheriff's department and Jefferson County Public Schools, alleging they ignored warnings of the attack and mishandled the rescue. 


r---•-•••·••-----••--••--••--•••••---•••••·•---••••••••••••-•• 
Friday, October 26th 

Friday NightPre-game Celebration 
, *to fie(p yreyare for stress
I I I 

*as an afternative to aCcofio{, aruas &' Saturday, October 27th I 
overeatina 
I I 

*to imyrove concentration a6i(ities 
BC Game Watch 
''Dr. Wendy Sett{e &1 'Dr. .Len '1-fickman 'Fridays, 4:00-5:00, 'RDifs Syorts 'Rec Center
I 

. 'l'fovember 2, 9, 16 $10 'Re[Jistration 6e8ins October 2 9, 8am, 'RS'RC
For: Those going without tickets Where: Northeast Brewing Company in Brighton 
kl I 
8rooo/Jt to VOii bvvour Stfldent GMmmen/. I 

·•••-••••••••·•••·••M••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••-••· 
'Re{axation 'Trainin8 
When: 7pm-midnight I 

Learn menta[ &1yfiysica(strate3ies to
Where: Fours, 166 Canal St., Boston I I 
I induce ca[ m andre{axation.
Price: $25 from 7-10 p.m. $10 after 10:00 pm I I I I 1 Stiffs can 6e usea: 
I 



page 8 The Observer . BUSINESS NEWS Thursday, October 18, 200 I 
Associated Press 
SIMPSONVILLE, Ky. 

Looking out the window toward her thriving sausage plant. Clara Purnell recalled how she worked alongside her husband in the kitchen to turn a family recipe into a household name. 
She helped grind and season the meat. packing it in hand­sewn cloth bags marked Purnell's "Old Folks" country sausage. 
As the business grew, she joined employees on the pro­cessing line and even appeared on television in folksy commer­cials that ended with the signa­ture line: "It's gooo-od." 
Those days are now a distant memory as Mrs. Purnell approaches her 100th birthday Oct. 22, matriarch to a sausage­making tradition that spans three generations. The Purnells' plant in this Kentucky town 20 miles east of Louisville produces more than 100,000 pounds of sausage daily. sold to grocery stores and restaurants in 44 states and Mexico. 
Mrs. Purnell. who was uorn in Springfield, Tenn., is modest about her role in starting the · company from scratch with her husband. Fred B. Purnell Sr. But their children say her resolve and work ethic helped it prosper. 
"She had a definite role in the business," said son Allen. the company's board chairman and sometime television pitchman. "They were partners. Daddy 
Purnell relishes role as Kentucky sausage queen 
took the lead, but Momma kept him propped up." 
Betty Moffett, Allen's sister, crediled her mother's religious faith. "She feels like that reallv makes her life complete, and it has," Moffett said. "She's been an inspiration to the whole fam­ily." 
The business started almost by accident, then became a necessity. At first, the sausage was served only at home. The recipe was Fred's mother's, brought from his family's Middle Tennessee farm to Nashville, where he worked as a railroad mechanic. 
The blend of seasonings still remains a closely guarded secret. It was in the rail yard that the sausage first gained a following. Purnell shared his sausage-and-biscuit lunch with a fellow worker. who liked it so much he wanted to buy some. Word spread, and soon the fam­ily was selling sausage in the rail yard. 
Known by his rail yard nick­name, "Old Folks," Purnell put the name on his sausage. He acquired the nickname as a farm boy because be liked to sit and listen to olrl folks talk. Sausage stayed a side business until 1944, when Purnell was 
disabled by a double her­nia. His pen­sion wasn't enough to support the family, so he started the sausage busi­ness full time. 
"We had to work all the time," Mrs. Purnell recalled. In 
1950, the family moved to Louisville, where a salesman said the sausage business was less competitive than in Nashville. 
Six years later, the Purnells settled in Simpsonville. Fred Purnell made the sales trips to drum up business, but his wife was constantly his "spirit boost­er" whenever times were tough, 


. soum BEND REGIONAL MUSEUM OF ART 
L -=
PRFS~

L )iiililUIM:fd!llD@IC ~+ 
~~ tl..e ~~ auc... 


THE MUSEUM IS WCAlED ~~~ger . 
DOWNTOWN SOUTII BEND -120 S. ST. JOSEPH STREET DOORS OPEN @ 7 -CABARil X BEGINS @ 8 P .M. -+­THE BALL BEGINS@ 9 P.M. -ON OCT. 27 ADMISSION $5 -AGES 17 + ADMITIED W/ VALID I.D. -+­MUST BE 21 W/ I.D. TO PURCHASE ALCOHOL 
Purnell would help box link sausages. Each box was sup­posed to weigh 6 pounds. If a box weighAd slightly more, Mrs. Purnell would break off a link to get the weight down. Tina Wise remembers the Christmas sea­son nearly 20 years ago when Mrs. Purnell presented gifts to women working in the plant office. Wist~ still has the cul­tu red pearl necklace she received. 
"It was the thought that here she is, one of the owners of the company and she thinks enough of the ladies in the office to come in there and tell us a Merry Christmas and give us this gift," said Wise, a Purnell 's employee for 21 years. Still family owned and operated, the company has carved out a share of the market in an indus­try top-heavy with corporate sausage producers. 
According to a trade publica­tion, Purrrnll's ranked ninth nationally in refrigerated break­fast sausage sales for the year ending April 23, 2000, with sales of $19.9 million. 

Moffett said. And she was there to pitch in wherever help was needed. 
"I think she was very instru­mental.'' said Carl Kramer. a 
"Herfaith was a very important factor, providing inspiration. but she was also very much a hands-on participant in the busine.<;;s." 
Carl Kramer historian 
historian who has researched the family's his­tory. "You can't start a business from scratch like that without cooperation by the spouses. IL just takes too much. Her faith was a very important factor. providing inspi­ration, but she was also very 

much a hands-on participant in the business." 
Fred Purnell died in 1974. The plant has expanded several times over the years, and now employs about 300 people. Longtime employees still fondly remember Mrs. Purnell's gen­erosity and frugality. 
Bill Nethery, the plant manag­er, remembers times when Mrs. 
Best Pizza East of Anywhere! 
Larue one Topping Pina 
r 

699 
Get a2nd Larue tor 
soo 

PIZZA COMPANY® 
pizzadoneright. 
271-1277 
= • 
--University Resources :• • •• for Gay, Lesbian, & ••• •• Bisexual Students • 
• l.iiilililliiiilillili,lioiio,j ••• 
• THE STANDING e COMMITTEE ON 
• GAY AND LESBIAN 
• STUDENT NEEDS
•
•

•••• The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs 
(Confidential information, education, and resources) 
Contact: Sr. M.l. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, orstudent members (see web site for student contact info.) 
Office of Campus Ministry 
("GLB Together"--confidential group meetings which 
• include prayer and discussion ofspiritual issues; annual 
•

•• retreat; library with relevant reading materials) 
• Contact: Fr. J. Steele, CSC, at Steele.31@.nd.edu. or
• 

•• Tami Schmitz at Schmitz.8@nd.edu
. 
•

••• University Counseling Center 
•

• (Individual counseling or a confidential support group) 
• 

Contact: Dr. Pat Utz at Utz. l@nd.edu, or Maureen Lafferty at Laffcrty.3@nd.edu
•
•
. 

For more infonnation, check out our web site: http://www.nrl.edu/~scglsn' 
................................................. 
Thursday, October 18, 2001 The Observer . NEWS page 9 
GERMANY 
Anthrax scares sweep globe 
International Study Programs University of Notre Dame 

Information Meetings: 
Thursday, October 18 at 5:00 245 DeBartolo 
Wednesday, November 7 at 5:00 231 DeBartolo 
http://www.nd.edu/-intlstud/ 
New study suggests fat birds fly better 
Associated Press 
FRANKFURT 

Growing alarm at the threat of anthrax disrupted postal service from Hong Kong to Italy on Wednesday, forced an Austrian jet to turn back and led tu sevr,ral detentions in Europe as authorities scram­bled to ensure public safety. 
German polici: detained two people suspected of sending prank anthrax mail as hun­dreds of thousands of letters were delayed at post offices across the country due to shutdowns caused by suspi­cious mail. 
An Austrian ,\irlines flight to New Delhi. India. was forced to return to 
George Pataki, the governor said. Ontario Premier Mike Harris and several peoplein his entourage who visited the office Tuesday were tested for anthrax. 
"I feel angry ... with the peo­ple who are doing this sort of thing," said Ontario official BobRunciman. ''I'd just like to sec them nailed, and nailed to the wall." 
So far, no one outside the United States has tested posi­tive for the bacteria in any of the scares, yet hundreds of pranks or suspicious incidents have generated widespread public fear. 
In Britain, discovery of a suspicious package at the London offices of HBC World 
Service 
Vienna after one of the 245 passengers  "If a letter looks suspicious and has no  forced clo­. sure of part of the build­ 
found a small amount of white powder on a seat, air­ return address and looks strange, then it goes to the shredder."  i n g Wednesday, police said, The offices  
I  i  n  e  of  MBC.  a  
spokesman Johann Jurceka said.  Andre Glauser Swisscom Challenge spokesman  London­based Arab television  
Authorities  network,  

examined passengers and the were evacuated earlier follow­plane for possible contamina­ing the delivery of a suspicious tion. package. 
As the scare rippled around The British government the world. U.S. legislative urged its citizens to "retain a buildings were threatened sense of perspective" about withunprecedented shutdowns the threat of anthrax attacks, for security sweeps after more and police warned hoaxers than 30 people in Senate they faced prison if caught. Majority Leader Tom A section of the Israeli par­Daschle's office tested positive 1iam ent was closed off and Wednesday for exposure to a examined after a lawmaker highly potent form of anthrax. opened a letter containing 
New traces of the bacteria­white powder. Parliamentary borne disease were also dis­opposition leader Yossi Sarid covered in New York City also received a similar letter. oflices used by New York Gov. The sender "was either an idiot or someone evil," Sarid told Israel television. "In this instance, it would seem it was an idiot." 
El Pais, Spain's largest cir­culation newspaper, said eight of its mailroom employees were tested for anthrax expo­sure Wednesday after one of them opened an envPlope con­tain~ng an unidentified white powder. 
None have fallen ill, and most employees were treating the incident as a hoax, said Juan Miguel Munoz, an editor. 
Postal workers in Palermo, Sicily, went on strike Wednesday demanding pro­tective gloves after a false alarm the previous day caused by a suspicious package. 
Hong Kong's Post Office sup­plied disposable rubber gloves and paper masks for post workers and issued safety guidelines to staff 
Organizers at the Swisscom Challenge women's tennis tournament in Zurich said fan mail for the players was being screened and searched by employees wearing latex gloves. 
"If a letter looks suspicious and has no return address and looks strange, then it goes to theshredder," spokesman. Andre Glauser said. 
In Osaka, Japan, U.S. con­sulate workers were given emergency antibiotics as bio­chemical crime experts tested the powdery contents of a sus­picious letter delivered there. 
A police station in Cape Town, South Africa, was quar­antined and several officers placed under medical observa­tion after they handled a note covered with an unknown powder. 

Associated Press 
As skies fill with millions of migrating birds, European sci­entists say the seasonal mira­cle appears to hinge on a seeming contradiction: The fat­ter the bird, the more efficient­ly it flies. 
The results of their study ­involving four birds that were captured as adults and trained to fly in awind tunnel -con­tradict a central theory of aerodynamics, which predicts that the power needed to fly increases sharply with load. 
for birds, appar­"It's always just Conservation ently. the cost of amazed me to Sciences near flying with heavy Boston.
think ifwe took an
fuel loads is consid­Researchers had
airplane and
erably smaller than assumed that previously thought. doubled its weight sleeker, more ''We have mea­athletic birds
and tried to fly it,
sured, for the first would have the 
we couldn't get it
time, how flight best chance of power changes to fly, and that's survival. with body mass in The first study
exactly what these 
a bird "and the suggests that
birds are doing. " 
results were very building up fat surprising," said deposits to be Anders Kvist of burned as fuel
Brian Harrington
Sweden's Lund during the
scientist
University, the lead author of the study in the latest issue of the jour­nal Nature. Researchers found that red knot wading birds double their normal body weight of 3.5 ounces before making their twice-a-year, nonstop commute between the British Isles and the RussianArctic. Distance: 3,100 miles. 
Another Nature study -this one involving pelicans trained to follow a motorboat and a light aircraft -quantified the benefits of flying in an aerody­namic V formation, which allows birds to save energy by gliding in the lead bird's air stream. 
Flying in formation, their heart rates were as much as 
The O'Brien-Smith 
14.5 percent lower than flying solo, according to Henri Weimerskirch and colleagues from the Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique in France. Avian researchers who did not participate in either experiment said the findings help explain how birds com­plete arduous migrations. 
"It's always just amazed me to think if we took an airplane and doubled its weight and tried to fly it we couldn't get it to fly, and that's exactly what these birds are doing," said Brian Harrington, senior scien­
tist at Manomet Center for 
migration is 
more than worth the energy it takes to carry the additional weight. Heavier birds apparently use their muscles more efficiently. 
Just why this is so remains a mystery, said British zoologist Jeremy Rayner of the University ofLeeds. 
"A central question that has occupied a lot of us for some time is how much energy it costs the bird to fly," Rayner said. "How does a bird cheat what seems like a fundamental of physics? One day we'll get the answer, but at the moment it's not obvious." 
In the study, Kvist said his team studied the red knots fly­ing six to 10 hours in a wind tunnel. 

Visiting Scholars Program Presents: 
WILLIAM MCGURN 
CHIEF EDITORIAL WRITER THE WALL STREET JOURNAL 
"THE ECONOMIST AND THE PREACHER: THE GOSPEL OF FREEDOM MEETS THE DISMAL SCIENCE" 

THUR$'D'AY, OCTOBER 18, 2001 
4:30 P.M. JORDAN AUDITORIUM MENDOZA COLLEGE OF BUSINESS UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 

FREE /\NO OPEN TO THE PUBLIC 
FOR INFOR,\WI ION: 219-6.31-3277 


O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Thursday, October 18, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q Notte Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINF.SS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Pat Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley Y11,WP0lNT EDITOR. Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITO!{: Noah Amscadter SCENE EDITOR, C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MAR¥'s EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINlSTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROI.LER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
CONTACT Us 
OfftCE MANACERiG.ENERAL lNF0..............631-7471 FAX...................... : ...................................... 631-6927 Al.>VERilSING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDJT0R IN Ctt!.EF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDIT0RIAssT. ME .................... 631-454! 
BUSINESS OFFIC.E........................................631-5313 N.EWS..........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews .1@nd.edu 
VIBWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer .viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SPORTS ...................................................... ..631-4543 observer.sports.l@nd.edu 
SCTNE.........................................................631-4540 
observer.scene.l@nd.edu 

SAINT MARYS......................................... ....631-4324 
observer .smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSI'EMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:llobseroer.ndedu for daily updares ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the .As.rociated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/ music fur 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rares of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
about The Observer
archlves to search for 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither instirution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lmers is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include concacr information. 
Q~stions regarding Obsen,er policies should be direct­ed to Editor in Chief Mike Connolly. 

~~­
_,. ­

"'--_,,/~ 
f"\ ----\-= 
~ 
Put abortion issue in perspective 
A misconception exists in the abortion debate that posits neutrality to one side while accusing the other side of activism and moral legislation. 
In Planned Parenthood v. Casey, a 1992 Supreme Court decision upholding Roe v. Christine Niles 
Wade. the majority opinion stated that although some of A 1 S 1
s ee t ... 

us may find abor­tion morally repug­nant, we should not in the course ofadjudication "mandate our own moral code." 
If the Court were honest, it would rec­ognize that it is indeed mandating a moral code: the freedom to terminate life within the womb. 
This is not a neutral position. friends. Let me clarify my point with an illustra­tion. At present no State laws allow par­ents the option of killing their newborns ·within 28 days of birth, much to the dis­may of Peter Singer. 
If this prohibition on killing infants were challenged before the Court as infringing upon the fundamental rights of parents in matters ofchildbirth, would the Court be neutral by invalidating the prohibition as unconstitutional? 
Would the Court be neutral by giving parents the right to choose to end that life? Or would the Court. rather, be expressly choosing protection of one life to the detriment of the other? No one would tolerate such a position by the Court. much less deem it neutral. 
Yet make the newborn just four weeks younger and this illustration portrays the Court's present position with a few restrictions, in theory more than fact. Before Roe about half of the States had laws prohibiting or restricting abortion. Like a sickle wielded in the name of fun­damental rights, Roe cut down each one. 
Of course. the prohibition in the illus­tration above would never be declared unconstitutional because the newborn would fall within the definition of "per­son" under the Constitution with the full legal protection that personhood and citi­zenship entail. 
But the illustration serves to demon­strate a point: the Court is not acting neutrally and it would be dishonest for it to assert so. It has taken a side, evident from both opinions' numerous argu­ments in favor of the woman's liberty in matters regarding childbirth with only cursory acknowledgment of abortion's eternal implications for the other life involved. 
This is exactly why the term "pro­choice" is misleading; it admits of only one person's choice, namely. the moth­er's. The phrase "anti-choice" could equally apply to abortion advocates because it emphasizes a real aspect of their position -the lack ofchoice for the other life involved. 
The opinions would even question whether the fetus constitutes a life. referring to it as "potential life." This phraseology might serve to soften the consequences of the procedure they sanction, but it is misleading. No doubt exists as to the life involved. life has never been the issue. Rather the debate has always centered around personhood. 
Let's assume abortion is within the parameters of constitutional adjudica­tion. If. as both opinions make clear. medical experts, philosophers and the­ologians can differ on the question of personhood. then why not err on the side of protecting life? 
If we weigh the relative burdens on a scale, we find that the Court stacks in favor of the woman reason upon reason why carrying a child to term is emotion­ally, psychologically and financially diffi­cult. Yet the Court gives only a passing glance at the other end of the scale. never acknowledging the one reason that tips, indeed overturns the scales in favor of protecting life. 
Rephrased, one side would entail the burden of carrying a child to term with all the practical difficulties that follow while the other side would entail the burden of sacrificing human life itself. 
Which is the more grievous if the issue is fraught with doubt? If it turns out one day that we have been mistaken. that we have erred by protecting the wrong side. what will shelter us from the fact that millions of lives have been extinguished at our sanction? We will not be able to hide behind the mask of neutrality because the position is untenable here. 
Dissenting justices have not argued for a federal ban on abortion. but rather a return of the decision to the States. This approach would be more in keeping with the Court's statement that because good minds differ on the question of person­hood, the Court "should not speculate as to the answer." 
The Court has done the exact opposite: not only has it speculated as to the answer, it has given it to us in no uncer­tain terms. Barely relying on precedent. transforming the right of privacy into a right of autonomy. Justice Blackmun wrote that the right to terminate life is so fundamental that it "need not seek refuge at the ballot box." 
As Roe and Casey have taught us. when all else fails brandish the sword of fundamental rights. 
Christine Niles is a student at the Notre Dame law School. Her column appears every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Viewpoint  
Kate Mosesso  Teresa Fralish  
Jason McFarley  Scene  
Meghanne  MattNania  
Downes  Graphics  
Sports  Katie McKenna  
Noah  Lab Tech  
Amstadler  Angela Campos  

POLL QUESTION 
Are you worried about the prospect of biochemical warfare in light of the recent anthrax cases? Please e-mail viewpoint.1@nd.edu by Friday to report your answer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The unexamined life is not worth living." 
Socrates Greek philosopher 

BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, October 18, 2001 page 11 
ResLife: re-examine your policies 
The students have found a new guy to vilify on campus. Move over Bob Davie, here comes Bill Kirk. For those of vou not in Lhe know, the "Kirkster" ic, the assistant vice president for Residence Life. 
This put-; him in squarely in r.harge of ResLifo and the ND Sernritv Police. J\.nd why should we heap ottr troubles on M,:. Kirk. 
Joe Muto
you ask'' 
Because. in the four hours before the Pittsburgh game BiU and the minions below him struck the 
lioin' on a biggest SP.tback tu the spirit of Notre Prayer Dame football since Knute Rockne's · plane went dovm in 1931. Some of you may ask what chugging warm Mad Dog and urinating on a truck tire have to do with the spirit of Notre Dame football. Well, tailgating, the activity which until two Wfleks ago was perfectly alright for students. encapsulates perfectly all that is Notre Dame football. faery gam11 for at least 40 years the students have come together to celebrate the looming football game. The sta­ples were half-cooked burgers, overcooked hot dogs and yes, the occasional beer or two (or 15). 13ut most of all, the tailgate was about friends and com­ing together. Before I start to sound like a Hallmark card, let me just say that the Saturday morning two weeks ago was my worst day on this campus. Ever. And I didn't Pven get r.ited. Kirk might have stopped some underage drinkers, but he killed the morale of the student body. And morale killing is apparently the special­ty for the 011kc of Rcsidrmcc Life. For the record. I've never dealt with ResLife, but I have frifmds who have dealt with thPm. Iwouldn't wish it on my worst enemy. The "holier-than-thou" Gestapo in lfosLifo have completely lost touch with the student body and sometimes seem to have lost touch with reality. And no matter which bodilv orifice the HesLife members seem tn have their heads tir1nly inserted into, one thing remains for certain: their punishments rnwcr lit the crime. Tailgaters from the Pitt game got 50 hours. Parietals brPakers g<'t kiekfid off r:ampus. Being caught drunk gets you anywhere between 20 and 50 hours, depending on 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Improve ticket exchange 
Midterm wP.ek is never very easy. This year all considered it's been quite difficult but the promise of the wep,kencl is always something to look forward to. Especially since for the first time in thre,\ years my ni1w year old brother and my family were going to comp, for a foutball game. 
It was tho first time that all thref' could come here and see the game with me and l was ridicu­lously excited about showing my brother around the school and having him cheer besidn me in tho student section. 
llowever those hopes were shat­ternd this morning in a totally unorganized mess ot' a ticket exchange. After three hours of sleep, I took my place in a hefty line at roughly 8:40 a.m. waiting for lhe window tu open, my three friends booklets and IDs in hand so that we might all sit together, they couldn't come because they were all in class. 
I then circled around the lobby to where I get to cross the window the first time we looped around. Shortly before I heard someone had been turned down who was exchanging multiple tickets. So I jump up and ask the lady if this horrible rumor is true -it was. 
You could only exchange your own ticket. So at this point I du not know if it was just that I was lucky the last two years when I exchanged another's ticket or they i.1xchanged mine or if this was a new rule put into affect I had no idea about. 
Or whv it was that someone walking.out said tlrny exchanged anothers ticket with no problem. Was I to wait and try my chance? I did not. l coulrl not wait an undetermined amount of time for nothing while dreading the inevitable. 
I went back to my room feeling defeated and dreading the phone call I was going to have to make to tell my excited brother that it could not happen. Could I get him a different ticket"? Probably, but there is no chance I might cheer on the team with my whole family.· 
So my purpose of this letter? To plead that Notre Dame with its numerous recourses does a slight­ly better job at organization and communication of policy as well as following it, so that no one else has to make the 1.;all I have to. 
Merideth Pierce 
junior 
LeMans Hall Oct. 16, 2001 

Recognizing OutreachND would be disservice to ND 
If there were a group on campus for stu­de·nts constantly, or even just often, pos­sessed by murderous rage, it would seem clear that the goal of such a group should be to eliminate that rage, and prevent its expression; anrl this not only for the good of others who may be adversely affected by such rage. but for the good of the group members themselves. 
Like random violence. homosexual activity is gravely wrong; this is clear and consistent in the scriptures of the three major Abraham-based religions, as well as the cat­echism. 
Hence the goal of any group dealing with students "oriented" toward such activity should be to somehow counteract this incli­nation, and prevent its expression. . 
Again, this should be done for the spiritual welfare of the members, apart from those merely disgusted. 
The only refutation I can see of this argu­ment would be to claim homosexuality, sodomy as a lifestyle, is in fact not wrong at all, and could in no way lead to a breach of the friendship with God which is our sole source of ultimate happiness and which includes obedience to His few simple com­mands. 
OutreachND operates according to this perspective, and thus fails to properly and fully help its members. From the statements of its representatives. and sympathizers like Mr. Kreider. it seems the group goal is to make members feel good about themselves, and to police tho thoughts of those who object to their militance. This is irresponsible and divisive. 
Notre Dame would do a disservice to all by recognizing such a group. Any group which encourages gravely sinful behavior in any­one, or is oven ambiguous about the morality of such b<'havior, should be denied access to resources available to legitimate campus organizations. 
The administration should be more articu­late about its dealings with gays and their groups on campus. By its silence it appears to one side unable to justify itself, thus encouraging that side to press forward even more. and to the other side it appears afraid to make a clear and unequivocal statement about the moral dimension of the issue. 
So it is failing everyone, for or against. I join with Mr. Kreider in calling for the administration tu fulfill its pastoral duties towards all souls on campus, gay or other­wise, in better explanation the stance it has taken with regard to OutreachND. 
Ken Klukowski 
class of '99 Ocr.15,2001 
O
THE 
BSERVER 



page 12 Thursday, October 18, 200 I 
By MATT NANlA 
Scene Movie Editor 
Horror movies have generally gotten a bad ra.p. Your idea of a horror flick probably involves some demon from the underworld devouring the brain (or lack there oO of a screaming, large-breasted female. Or maybe what comes to mind is a slasher film, where a mad seri­al killer stalks a screaming, large-breasted female. If you're a little older or if you watch late night TV, you may be more familiar with the old black-and-white clas­sics, where a pale supernatural figure emerges from the shadows, first to frighten and then to seduce (you guessed it) a screaming, large-breasted female. · Well the movies we recommend for Halloween don't fit int~ any of those categories -although you'll find that they all share certain traits with tl1ese "traditional" (that is, traditionally bad) examples of the horror genre. Instead, we've selected a group of smart, psychologically sophisticated horror movies, ones that scare us without asking us to suspend all logic and taste. 
Alright, you'll still have to suspend some logic and taste, but that's what makes them horror movies, right? 
"The Exorcist" (1973) 
"The Exorcist" presents a fascinating exhibition of unlikely conflicts: the Devil versus a small girl, religion versus logic and modern times versus ancient beliefs. This constant opposition between dueling worlds is why 'The Exorcist" brings such raw emotions to the surface for its viewers. You are never comfortable and you can never relax while watching this film. 
"The Exorcist" begins when Regan (Linda Blair), the 12-year-old daughter of Chris MacNeil (Ellen Burstyn), becomes ill in some very strange ways. She gets thrashed around by unseen forces, pees on the carpet and displays a sudden, prolific ability to spout vile and inventive profanity. After taking Regan to every doctor in the Western world, and receiving no explanation for these bizarre phenomena, Chris's once-firm belief in Reason is shaken. Desperate, she begins to wonder if Regan is possessed by the Devil. Chris asks Father Karras (Jason Miller) to check her daughter out, and then, if necessary, to perform an exorcism to drive the spirit from Regan's body. 
Sounds like schlock, right? Well, audiences in 1973 didn't think so. Rumors sped across the country that people were vomiting in the aisles and women were scared into giving· birth. Well, it's not that scary, but it did bring audiences to an entire new level of disturbing real­ism. A great horror film by all means, "The Exorcist" is a cinematic landmark in its own right. 
Frightful Fact: Actress Mercedes Mccambridge was called upon to pro­vide Regan's "demon ooice. " In order to get the right inflec­tion, she wasJed raw eggs, alcohol and cigarettes, and was strapped to a chair. 
"Psycho" (1960) 
Alfred Hitchcock's "Psycho" is so terrifying that almost 40 years after it was first released, filmmaker Gus Van Sant was moved enough to remake it shot-for-shot. 
Notwithstanding the benefits of modernity that come with a current version -like less embarrassing clothes and cooler cars -the classic version of this creepy Oick is just that: a classic. "Psycho" launched a whole new conception of fear upon the American public. 
Before 1960. the source of evil in horror movies was usually a clownish-looking guy in a Wookie outfit or something equally ridiculous. "Psycho" showed us that the greatest potential horror doesn't come from "The Deep," a la Mystery Science Theater 3000 buffoonery. The greatest threat comes from the guy next door. 
friends, who also live in the neighborhood, are more interested in hook­ing up with their respec­tive boyfriends. But psy­cho Michael Myers (who has just escaped from a mental institution and, naturally, always wears a mask) is out to kill them. Standard horror fare ensues. 
But any good horror movie is only as good a!: its villain, and this i': what makes "Halloween" horror genre. so much better than a:l the other slasher clones that came after it. The opening five minutes are presented entirely from Michael Myers' warped point of view (some consider those five minutes to be among the creepiest film sequences ever). Here's a movie that realizes that some­thing doesn't have to jump out of a bush to be scary. It's often more terrifying knowing exactly what's coming. 
For a horror movie, "Halloween" contains almost no blood. But try watching this one late at night, and you'll see how good it is. 
Frightful Fact: The mask Michael Myers wears is actu­ally a William Shatner "Captain Kirk" mask spray­painted white. 

"SIience of the Lambs" (1991) 
"Silence of the Lambs" assembles one of the most powerful combinations of acting, writing and direction in modern moviemaking to remind us of the infinite depth of human depravity. 
Anthony Hopkins glides through his performance as the evil Hannibal Lecter with gripping understatement, unveiling for us everything we fear most about the dark side of the human psyche. Hannibal's no howling lunatic or crazed animal. He's intelligent, cultured, charming and wholly devoid of any moral qualms. · 
Jodie Foste1· is equally rn.mpelling as FBI Agent Clarice Starling, Lhe perfect foil: a winsome and willing neo­phyte special agent who charms Hannibal. The dynamic between these two actors is tremendous and they both won Oscars for their performances. 
The plot is addictive, as we watch Foster and her FBI team attempt to capture a serial killer on the loose, she coaxes clues from Hannibal -the incarcerated godfa­ther of all serial killers -as to how the killer thinks and what he may do next. 
Much of the movie's plot focuses on this second killer, nicknamed "Buffalo Bill," but he's not really all that interesting, except for his rather extreme take on cross-

Filmed in Freudian psychology's heyday, this film is largely a story of a boy and his mother, and Norman Bates {Anthony Perkins) is a very big part of that very dysfunctional relationship. Caught in the middle is Marion Crane (Janet Leigh). 
Viewers should be amazed at how current the plot twists and sinister behavior seem in this movie. In fact, you'll be tempted to conclude, like the proverbial guy who reads Shakespeare for the first time, that "Psycho" is just one cliche after another. Wrong. This is where they all came from: the origin of cinematic mental anguish. 
Frightful Fact: During the making of the famous "shower scene," chocolate syrup was used for blood, since it shows up nicely on black and white film. 
"Rosemary's Baby" (1968) 

"Rosemary's Baby" is Roman Polanski's finest work next to "Chinatown." Based on Ira Levin's novel, "Baby" is a chilling film filled with great atmosphere and won­derful acting. It deals with some painful topics and has an excellent psychologi­cal thriller storyline. Although the plot deals with the Devil, don't get the wrong idea; unlike "The Exorcist," it deals pri­marily with witch­craft and occultism. "Rosemary's Baby" strikes a perfect bal­ance of suspense and the supernatural, and the real and unreal. Throughout the film there's always the 
question of whether or not Rosemary's (Mia Farrow) suspicions are real or whether she is just paranoid or perhaps even mad. This leads to a lot of great scenes and ultimately to the unforgettable finish. 
Frightful Fact: The film's theme, "The Lullaby of Rosemary's Baby," performed by Farrow, reached No. l 1 on the Billboard charts. 
"Halloween" (1978) 
The '80s gave rise to a proliferation of slasher movies. From "Friday the 13th" to "Nightmare on Elm Street," making cheap horror flicks seemed to be a sure-fire way to make money. But what started it all? Why did Hollywood put so much money into producing so many bad movies? The answer: "Halloween." 
The plot is relatively simple: it's Halloween night, and Laurie (Jamie Lee Curtis) is babysitting two kids. Her 

O
THE 
BSERVER 


Thursday, October 18, 2001 
page 13 

rror film festival done right 
rs some suggestions for your night ofcinematic fright .... 


dressing. There is no doubt that you'll leave this movie more afraid of Hannibal than of any­one else. 
Frightful Fact: The role of Clarice Starling was originally offered to Michelle Pfeiff er. 
"The Shining" (1980) 
Without Stanley Kubrick and Jack Photo courtesy ot Anchor Bay Entertainment Inc. Nicholson, "The 
en" was a turning point in the Shining" would be just another haunted house flick. This film, like all his others, is so much Kubrick that it carries the title "Stanley Kubrick's The Shining." His signature techniques helped craft it into the classic it is today. Although Kubrick was difficult to work with, his perfectionism is evident in the final prod­uct. Likewise. Nicholson's depiction of a man teetering on the brink of insanity is brilliant. We watch as the mad­ness slowly settles in and explodes fiercely into this man, transforming him from one who is trying repair his frag­ile family life into a stark raving lunatic bent on destroy­ing everything he loves. With "The Shining," Kubrick and Nicholson succeed on all levels and deliver a film that warrants its place­ment among the best in the horror genre. Frightful Fact: Nicholson was up for the part ofFather Karras in "The Exorcist" before Jason Miller took the role. 
Ok, so maybe intelligence and sophistication aren't what you're looking for on Halloween. You want a lot of gore and an abundance of outlandish creatures. Perhaps you like your horror films v<.ith a healthy dose of science fiction or comedy. Or maybe you just have a thing for zombies. Whatever it is, we got you covered. 
"The Evil Dead" (1982) and "Evil Dead 2" (1987) 
"The Evil Dead" was Sam Raimi's (a cult horror film god) first masterpiece. The plot goes something like this: five college students travel to a cabin in Tennessee. The cabin is really creepy. They explore it and find a tape recorder that has a professor reading a cursed book. The tape raises evil spirits, and soon (after a particularly violent vine-rape scene) one of the women is possessed. To protect themselves, the students lock the new "evil dead" in the cellar. One by one each of them is taken over by evil forces, until only Ash (played by another cult god, Bruce Campbell) is left. 
"Evil Dead» is a tour-de-force of wild blood and special effects that's so over-the-top it's hard (o take seriously. It's a ton of fun, but not sophisticated in any sense of the word. It is an absolute must-see for gorehounds. All oth­ers beware. 
As for the sequel, "Evil Dead 2: Dead by Dawn," Raimi's clever filmmaking and knack for twisted slap­stick humor made it over from the original. This time both qualities have been heightened so that the comedy is equal to the horror. whereas the original was much more of a straight out splatter film. Through this perfect melding of comedy and horror, "Evil Dead 2" manages to capture the appeal of the original while creating a more entertaining film where everything is exaggerated to the extreme. There's more blood, more violence and more twisted humor, much of which is inspired by slap­stick comedy routines. 
Frightful Fact: Green-dyed creamed com was used for the zombie guts. 
"The Rocky Horror Picture Show" (1975) 
The greatest cult classic of all time is an instant choice for Halloween. "The Rocky Horror Picture Show" is a hilarious horror-comedy-musical starring Tim Curry, Susan Sarandon and Barry Bostwick, which attained its cult status by playing at midnight movie showings ever since its initial release back in 1975. A testament to the utterly bizarre, "The Rocky Horror Picture Show" is an excellent choice for a Halloween-themed party. 
"The Frighteners" (1996) 
"The Frighteners" is first-rate goofy fun, and get this: it actually has a plot. Granted, it's a fairly derivative plot, incorporating elements from "Ghostbusters," "Ghost" and various other supernatural flicks, but direc­tor Peter Jackson (who's helming the upcoming "Lord of the Rings" trilogy) manages to combine these influences into a surprisingly satisfying blend of over-the-top come­dy and ghoulish horror. Best of all, Jackson knows how to use exciting special effects technology without letting it run roughshod over the narrative. All in all, "The Frighteners" is a big-budget movie that actually delivers on its promise of escapist entertainment, without insult­ing the audience's intelligence in the process. 
Frightful Fact: During the making of the film, lead actor Michael J. Fox repeatedly blew his lines by calling a fellow co-star "Doc" -the name of Christopher ,Lloyd's character in the "Back to the Future" movies. 
"Interview with the Vampire" (1994) 
No list of Halloween movies would be complete with­out a vampire flick. And "Interview with the Vampire" is one of the few horror films out there that takes its sub­ject seriously. 
Based on Anne Rice's novel of the same name, "Interview with the Vampire" presents a twist on the bloodsucker myth by telling the tale from the viewpoint of the vampires. 
Director Neil Jordan creates a beautiful and disturbing world in which these creatures live. Due to the noctur­nal nature of vampires, the film is set almost exclusively at night. The streets of New Orleans in the 1700s are appropriately dank, but the vampires of this film do not spend much time hunting in the streets. These are high­society vampires, and they are constantly placed in opu­lent settings, making it easy for them to prey on the rich upper crust. 
Jordan does a marvelous job of bringing Rice's vision to the silver screen and the film oozes with rich imagery and atmosphere. "Interview" is one of the best vampire movies ever made, easily blowing away Francis Ford Coppola's "Bram Stoker's Dracula," and is thus a worthy selection for Halloween. 
Frightful Fact: Anne Rice was originally unhappy with the casting ofTom Cruise in the role ofLestat. Upon see­ing his performance, she apologized. 
All of the films we recommend are ideal candidates for Halloween n:iovie watching. Most will scare you to bits, others will gross you out and even a few will make you laugh -some are capable of doing all three. Regardless, Halloween's the perfect time for friends and families to just sit back, relax, and enjoy the horror show. 
Contact Matt Nania at mnania@nd.edu 

Frightful Fact: The film was originally banned in South Africa just weeks after its release, but not before it had been seen by an estimated 250,000 viewers. 
"Allen" (1979) 
Ridley Scott's "Alien" is quite possibly the greatest science fiction-horror film of all time and, despite the inarguable success of James Cameron's sequel "Aliens," the origi­nal is still the best in the series. It is the perfect melding of sci-fi and thriller, creat­ing a pulse pounding film that keeps view­ers on the edge, especially during the last hour, which begins with the classic "chest­popping" scene. 
Like a Last Supper in space, this act is the last peaceful moment before everything comes crashing down. A new threat literal­ly comes out of nowhere. What's left is an amazing scene that must have made audi­ences in 1979 freak out. and it still holds up very well when viewed today. If you're looking for a great sci-fl-horror film, they don't get much better than "Alien." 
Photo courtesy of Warner Bros. 

Frightful Fact: In an early draft of the 
Based on Anne Rice's novel of the same name, "Interview with
script, Ripley was a man. 
the Vampire" gives Its characters the high-class treatment. 

,-­
1 
I 
I 
I I I I page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, October 18, 2001 
I 
I 
NLCS 
Braves pound Diamondbacks in Game 2 
five hits to improve to 2-0 in fied. We certainly didn't want homer. The home run silenced the
Associared Press 
this year's playoffs. fie struck lo go home down 2-0 with lhe "As soon as I stepped into the pom-pon waving crowd of out two and ·walked two before prospect of facing Curt." batter's box, I was shouting for 49,584 tlrn second-largest inPHOENIX giving wuy to St,we Karsay. As Arizona starter Miguel right field all the way," 1.upn Bauk One Ballpark history.
What a w1~lcomc back party usual, Glavine's biggest. Batista allowed only two hits in said. "The first pitr,h around The crowd had go1rn wildfor Javy Lopez. 
weapon was his control as he srven innings, but both were the plate, I was going to swing moments earlior when MattIn his first start since he was 
baffled the Diamondbacks into homers and that was all the as hard as I can." Williams' two-out single titHIhurt last month, Lopez broke a 
harmless groundnuts and f'ly support Glavine needed in his Hoth Batista am.I Brnnlv said the game at 1 in th1\ sixth after
tie with a two-run homer in the 
balls. 29th postseason start. Batista the pitch was well off the·plaln, the Diamondbacks had squan­sevPnth inning and the Atlanta Arizona manager Bob Brnnly struck out thriw and walked making a tough onn to hit out dered scoring threats in the13raves pulled away to beat the 
marveled at the way Glavinc two. of the park. first and fifth. It was the first
Arizona Diamondbacks 8-l 
was able to tailor his pitches so Brnnly had skipped the "You can throw that pitch 30 run Glavine had allowed in 14Wednesday night in Game 2 of the batters would be Ii kely to pregame news conference times and if' he hits it onee. innings this postseason.
the ~ ational League champi­
hit where the defense was because of the that's not The echoes of trumpeter
onship series. 
playing. cold and flu. b a d , " Jessie McGuire's stirring rendi­"I told the coaches. 'Let's get 
"Tom Glavinc was every bit "I started "/ alwaysfeel like Game Batista said. tion of the national anthem had
Javy in them,"' Atlanta manag­
as spectacular in his own right feeling better 2 is an urgent game in "Look at it, barely <lied down when Giles 
er Bobby Cox said. '"He might 
as Randy Johnson was. ii' you them for it was 2{ hit thP game's first pitch 383
hit a home run, produce some any series. To me, it's a
ask me," Brenly said. "He awhile," he iriches off foet into the left-[1eld scuts toruns,' and that's exactly what 
pitched right to the strength of said, "but the huge swing game. •• the plate. give the Braves the quickest
he did." 
his defense. That's pretty last few Ho was lead possible. It was the sev­The hPst-of-siwen seriPs is crafty." innings of the probably enth leaduff homer in LCS bis­
Tom Glavine 
tied at 1-1 and shifts to Atlanta 
Glavine tiPd teammate John ballgame I just looking tory, and first in the National 
_ for Game :; on Friday night. pitcher
Smoltz's major league record think I had a for it and League since Orlatldo Merced
" Aftl'r Tom Glavine shut down 
with his l2th postseason victo­relapse." got the good did it for Pittsburgh off Smoltz 
Arizona for seven innings, the 
ry. Glavine also has 12 postsea­Marcus part of the in 1991.
Braves turned the game into a 
son losses. tied with teammate Giles, who came within a foot bat on it." Arizona loaded the bases
rout with five runs off of a Greg Maddux for the most or less of hitting two out That Lopez was playing at all with two outs in the second
parade of old-timers out of lhe 
ever. against Johnson in Game 1 was an upset after he sprained inning on singles by WilliamsDiamondbacks bullpen. 
The victory was crucial for Tuesdav, homered on the his left ankle in a collision with and Mark Grace and a walk toBrian Jordan doubled in two 
an Atlanta team that didn't game's· first pitch to give Robin Ventura at the plate on Damian Miller. But that 
runs off 42-year-old Mike 
want to go home 0-2 and face Atlanta the quickest 1-0 lead Sept. 30. brought up Batista. who was 2­Morgan, B.J. Surhoff hit a two­
Curt Schilling in Game 3. possible. "With a high ankle sprain, it for-32 this season. Batista run homer off 36-year-old Greg "I always feel like Game 2 is Batista retired 13 in a row in generally takPs six to eight struck out looking to end theSwindell and Rev Sanchez sin­an urgent game in any series. one stretch and didn't allow weeks," Cox said. "The best Wfl inning.
gled in a run off 37-year-old 
To me it's a huge swing game," another hit until Lopez's first­could get from the doctor was a Besides the two homersBobby Witt. 
Glavine said. "You can either pitch homer off the right-field chance for the World Series, Batista gave up, he had twoBefore that, it was just the 
go up two, down two or tie foul pole in the seventh put the and that was probably less scares from Julio Pranco, who
sort of low-scoring pitcher's 
things up. Any of those is vastly Braves up 3-1. Batista walked than 50-50. They got him ready flnw out to the right-field f'encn
duel that has been the norm 
different than the other. In this Andruw Jones on four pitches somehow. It's kind of amaz­in the first inning and the cen­for both teams. 
instance, it's probably magni-right before allowing the ing." ter-field wall in Urn third.
Glavine allowed one run and 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at ,h~ Notre Dame otltce. 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day. including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Fun promotional jobs Outgoing, energetic individual need Fraternities'Soronties'Clubs'Stude LOOKING FOR A ROOMMATE TO $10/hr to give away cool new prod-to babysit 2 children, 5 and 2, Fri. nt Groups SHARE A 2-BORM APT IN TUR-ucts eve. 10/19 and sat. during game PERSONAL Earn $1,000-$2,000 this semester
LOST AND FOUND 
TLE CREEK FOR 2ND SEMES-promogirl.com 10120. Call 937 294 4857 with the easy 
TER campusfundraiser .com three hour IF YOU LOST A COWBOY HAT AT CALL HILLIARY 243-1840 OR BLACK FEMALE SEEKING SAME SPRING BREAK fundraising event. Does not involve LAFAYETTE ON FRI, CALL 246-EMAIL HBURN@ND.EDU FOR ROOMMATE. CASTLE PT. Largest selection of Spring Break credit card applications. 9313 $350 + DEPOSIT. 271-7195. Destinations, including Cruises! Fundraising dates are filling quickly, 
ROOMS AVAILABLE AT THE Rep Positions, Free Drinks and so call today1 Contacfcampus-
TICKETS 

SOUTH BEND MARRIOTT Free trips available. fundraiser.com at 888 923-3238, or NOVEMBER 15-18, NOTRE DAME www. EpicuRRean.com visit www.campusfundraiser.com VS. NAVY WEEKEND. ROOMS BUY-SELL 1-800-231-4-FUN
FOR RENT 
BLOCKED FOR AN ND CONFER-ND FOOTBALL TICKETS ADOPTION IS LOVE ENCE. EXTRAS AVAILABLE. FOR 277-6619 or 273-3911 WANTED: SPRING BREAKERS!
FOR SALE 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM-MORE INFORMATION PLEASE Sun Coast Vacations wants to send Imagine your precious baby safe PUS CALL BARB HERB AT 312-243-NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TIX you on Spring Break to Cancun, the and happy in a loving family. mmmrentals.com 4244 (X4192) 2 BC tickets in ND section. Best FOR SALE Bahamas. Jamaica or Mazatlan adored by 2 ND grad parents (a full-email: mmmrentals@aol.com offer. 1-617-864-7973 FOR FREE! To find out how. call 1-time mom and lawyer dad) and lov-
Bed ·n Breakfast near ND for grad. 888-777-4642 or email: sales@sun-ing playmates in a beautiful home. 
weekend. Wild Irish Rose Inn. 219-For sale: '97 Ford Taurus. AM. 232-2378 coastvacations.com We promise to give your child the THAT PRETTY PLACE. Bed and 277-4303 www.irishroseinn.com Excellent condition. Power locks, PM 288-2726 life you dream of for them. Medical, Breakfast Inn has space available steering, ale. $6,300 0/8/0 Spring Break Insanity! legal, counseling, court-approved for football/parent wknds. 5 rooms 1-616-663-8422 ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED WWW.INTER-CAMPUS.COM or living expenses pd. Confidential. with private baths, $80-$115, call 1-800-327-6013 Please call our attorney at
WANTED

Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Nikon 6006 Camera Body. Recent AM. -232-2378 Guaranteed lowest prices! All desti-(708) 922-4 795 Toll Road Exit #107. 1-800-418-overheul by Nikon. $300 Call 631-P M -288-2726 nations! Fifteen years experience! 9487 Responsible person who enjoys 7818 Wanted: Representatives and orga-$300-$800 Scholarships 
kids needed for after school nizatoins. earn top $$$, build your Available per semester! Monday through Friday 4-7 PM. Northsore Condo, 1428 Marigold ND tickets for sale. Lowest prices. resume Looking for a job which lets you 
3 br 2 ba ranch parklike yd all appl Need own car. Call 272-6145. way near ND, 1 bdr, 1 bath, LR. DR 232-0964. work around your school schedule? $1200 mo patt1 grice century 21 & kitchen with appliances. 1 car SPRING BREAK PARTY! Indulge We have several part-time and full-Jim McDunfee 235-3062 Wanted: Babysitter with own trans-garage. $69,000. WANTED -ND TICKETS in FREE Travel, Drinks, Food and time day & evening positions paying 
portation, for 1-2 children in our Call Doris at 254-1772 289-9280 Parties with the Best DJs and $7-$11/hr. 
home. close to campus. Flexible celebrities in Cancun, Jamaica, We offer the following: For rent: remodeled 4-bdrm house. hours. 277-1037 Northshore Condo, 1428 Marigold Mazatlan and the Bahamas. Go to 'Scholarship money 3 blks. from ND. Garage avail. 233-Way near ND, 1bdr, 1 bah, LR, DR Buying some/ Selling a few extra SludentCity .com. call 1-800-293-"Flexible Schedules 2104 The Coffee Spot Cafe on Bendix & kitchen with appliances. 1 car N.D. Football Tickets. 1443 or email sales@stude 'Paid vacations/holidays 
near Cleveland Rd garage. $69,000. Call Doris at 254-219-289-8048. ntcity.com to find out more. "Optional Saturdays B&B Part-time work available. Gorumet 1772 for more info. "Health/Life/401 (k) 2-3 ROOMS HOME GAMES Coffee Shop. Spring Break with STS, America's 'Incentives/Raises 
2 Ml NO OF CAMPUS Call 273-2931 BMW 94 325i, 4dr, green, loaded, 1 # 1 Student Tour Operator. 'Supervisory/Mg!. Positions 247-1124 owner, all records, $11 ,000 289-Have 3 pair of USC !Ix. Need Tenn. Promote trips on campus earn cash 1-(888) 801-JOBS Babysitting 1,5,7 yr. olds 12-15 4082 Tix. Let's talk. and free trips. Into/Reservations jobs@arnericallcorp.com 
hours/wk 901-332-6735 1-800-648-4849 Just minutes north of campus Lodging -Bed and Breakfast, 45 flexible hrs Selling Varsity Club time share 1 www.ststravel.com minutes from Notre Dame. T&R 271-0766 soph. wk. $9,500 Need 1 Tennessee ticket Contact Oh ya? Well, I bet you have a INN Between the lakes. 272-1753 Scott at 634-4946 ...ACT NOW! Guarentee the best small carrot!! PH (616) 244-9084 In-home nanny needed 10 care for spring break prices! South Padre, 
www.innbetweenthelakes.com infant on Monday and Wednesday Fifty-five gallon fish tank solid oak Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, Mardi I'm disappointed the Voice didn't afternoons. Must have lransporta• Cabinet all equipment presently U2 TIX 1 FLOOR TICKET CHICA-Gras, Acapulco, Florda & Madrigas. call me tonight... lion. Experience with infants and set up for salt water fish. $1200 GO OCT. 15 Reps needed. Travel free, earn 
Nice homes next school year north references required. Contact Dr. new-$300 or besl otter. 631-6955 BEST OFFER $$$. Group discount for 6+, 800-How bout them showers, Suzy??? of ND. Great area. 277-3097 Knoedler: 631-4264 or or after 6pm 272-6414 287-9342 838-8203 www,leisuretours.com aknoedler@nd.edu we really need to get a new carpet 
Thursday, October 18, 200 I 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page IS 

807 Mass 
8:00 p.m. lounge, Coleman-Morse Center 


Freshman Retreat #37 (November 9-10, 20011 
Monday, October 1through Monday, November 5 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
29th Sunday 
Ordinary 
Time 
Weekend , · 
¦ Presiders 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Saturday, October 20 Mass 
30 minutes after game 
Most Rev. Charles V. Grahmann Bishop of Dallas, Texas 

45 minutes aftergame {Stepan Center) 
Rev. Robert A. Dowd, c.s.c. 

Sunday, October 21 Mass 
8:0lla.m. Rev. Robert A. Dowd, c.s.c. 10:00a.m. 
His Eminence Cardinal Roger M. Mahany Archbishop of Los Angeles, CA 

11:45a.m. 
Most Rev. Jahn M. D'Arcy Bishop of Fort Wayne­

South Bend, IN  
¦ Sunday's  
Scripture Readings  
1st Reading  Ex 17: 8-13  
2nd Reading  2Tm 3: 14-4: 2  
Gospel  Lk 18: 1-8  

How Can You Mend a Broken Heart? 
by Chandra Johnson, Assistant to the President and Assistant Director of Cross Cultural Ministry 
The weather is changing, and judging by conversations I have had with several students in the past few weeks, relationships are changing too. Responding to Mother Nature's predictable cooler temperatures and corresponding shifting temperaments, couples around campus are showing signs of reconstruction and change. Giving each other "space" seems to be the optimum word for contemplating a fresh new outlook on life. Unfortunately, this desire for freedom and renewed vision is unsettling and perhaps unexpected for those who didn't see the change coming. 
This week, I would like to examine matters of the heart, particularly broken hearts. I chose this topic because today we commemorate the life and ministry of Luke, the Syrian physician and evangelist, who authored Acts of the Apostles and the gospel written for gentile christians. Many years ago, I facilitated a relationship retreat for young adults in Los Angeles and we used Luke's gospel to highlight Christ as liberator and healer of broken hearts. We spent the weekend discussing why loving and being loved are vital to our very existence and sense of belonging. Twenty years later, I am reminded of the retreat and Luke's stories, and figures like Mary Magdalene and Paul who saw life's challenges as opportunities for change. They were given choices to either enter into a renewed relationship with themselves and others, or remain the same. They came to believe that participating fully in human relationship is participating fully into the life of God. Like those memorialized in Luke's writings, we, too, believe in this life principle and trust without question that committing time, energy and affection to that special someone is the stuff that makes a day worth living. If this is the truth about love, then why does it hurt so badly when it doesn't turn our the way we want? 
fu a campus minister, I am humbled by the stories students share with me regarding personal relationships and how these affectionate associations have helped to shape their self perception. Through your sharing with me and others, members of our Campus Ministry staff have developed an interactive workshop entitled "Building Healthy Relationships", which is now a mandatory requirement for incoming first year students. I facilitated a small group session in one ofthe workshops and the question was asked, "what makes men and women different?"' Without a thought, a young man answered, "the way we think." An obvious answer, yes, and a profound one indeed. The way we think influences the way we act and respond to each other. And this, hands down, is the toughest obstacle to maintaining common ground. 
What we have come to realize through your stories is that sustaining a healthy, platonic, and wholesome relationship at colleges like Notre Dame is no small task. The tension between being a good student, leader, and an attentive and compassionate partner is, at times, a burden to successfully navigate in the course of a day. Yet, you cherish the experience and find ways to hang on to the hopeful ideal of finding that special someone to share life with. And then it happens. Just when you think things are going well, the "we have to talk" phrase shakes up your world. This is where Luke comes in. 
Was Jesus rebuking the wind and the raging water in calming the Sea of Galilee a true story? Or the five thousand? Was everyone fed with only five loaves of bread and two fish? And the woman who had been hemorrhaging for twelve years, was she really cured when she touched Jesus' coat? What was it about Jesus that kept people retelling these stories for generations? Who told the stories and kept them alive? And what did they see in him that they didn't see in themselves? The answer: his self esteem and love. Jesus knew who he was. By never disavowing his self worth and trust in God, he was able to make the well being of others his pnmary purpose. In loving himself, his God and others without compromise, he lived an other-centered existence. 
Hearts are God's property. Matters of the heart are orchestrated by God. When a relationship takes an unexpected turn and your heart begins to ache, your first impulse is to be still and steady your Spirit. In your silence, you replay the entire relationship in your mind and try to figure out what you did wrong. Or you pretend that your new found freedom will instantaneously replace the void once filled with a regular and familiar routine with your significant other. Whether you are the bearer or receiver ofthe "news," breaking up with a treasured companion is hard. But what Luke tells us is that even though your heart may be caught in the storm, it's not your heart to mend. It's God's. 
Jesus is love incarnate and relationships allow us to participate in God's love rapture. People enter our lives to assist in our self discovery. They come in al1 shapes, colors, class, religions, and genders. Some stay, some move on, yet everyone we meet has inevitably had some transformative impact on our life journey. Cherish the moments. Be thankful for the different kinds of relationships in your life that make you feel human and alive. And most ofall, step back, see and appreciate how much you have grown. It takes courage to open your heart and let someone in. And because you weren't afraid, you've been changed. And love takes on new meanmg. 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, October 18, 2001 
NFL 
Bears release returner Milburn 
Asso.:iaced Press 
LAKE FOREST. Ill. 

Glyn Milburn made the Pro Bowl two years ago and set the Chicago Bears' career record for kickoff return yardage last sea­son. 
On Wednesday, he was released following his performance last Sunday that saw him botch one kickoff that hit him in the face­mask and fumble another away. 
"It wasn't a decision based on one day. It was over time and really more of a function of strengthening the overall team,"Bears coach Dick Jauron said Wednesday. 
"We felt we had the players who could step in and fill the void 
see him
"We felt we had the
Glyn will leave. go," Azumah It was a tough players who could step s a i d decision." Wednesday.
in and fill the void Glyn 
Milburn, a "He's been
will leave ... 

nine-year NFL returning kicks veteran who here for four also played for Dick Jauron years and you Denver and learn some of
Bears coach

Detroit, was acquired by the Bears in a 1998 trade with Green Bay. 
Milburn had 4,596 kickoff return yards for the Bears and last season broke Dennis Gentry's team mark. He's also fourth on the Bears' career punt return yardage chart with 970 yards on 94 returns. He twisted his ankle Sunday on a punt return and had to leave the game. 
Jauron said Leon Johnson, Autry Denson and defensive back 
R.W. McQuarters could take over the kick return duties. Defensive back Jerry Azumah is another option for Sunday's game in Cincinnati. 
Johnson, who missed last sea­son with a knee injury, set a New York Jets' season record for punt returns as a rookie in 1997 with 619 yards on 51 returns. 
"Some people are saying it might be my last go, so I got to make the most of it,"said Johnson, signed earlier this month. "Hopefully I'll get my shot." 
Denson, while with the Dolphins last season, averaged 24.8 yards per kickoff return. 
And McQuarters, who returned a fumble 69 yards for a TD last week against the Cardinals, had a 58-yard punt return for a score in the preseason. 
The 5-foot-8 Milburn had 2,025 all-purpose yards in 1999 -when he also caught 20 passes -to become Chicago's first player in the Pro Bowl in five years. 
"I don't like to 
the little things he's been doing." 
Milburn joins the list of veteran players let go by the Bears in gen­eral manager Jerry Angelo's first season, including Mike Wells, Bobby Engram, Clyde Simmons and Thomas Smith. 
The Bears on Wednesday also signed fullback Stanley Pritchett, who played last season with the Eagles and rushed for 225 yards while catching 25 passes. He was released by Philadelphia before the season. 
Pritchett is insurance for the Bears at fullback as Daimon Shelton appeals the results of a test that could lead to his suspen­sion under the league's banned substance policy. 
NASCAR 
League orders use of head restraints 
Associated Press 
DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. 

NASCAR ordered the imme­diate use of head-and-neck restraints for its top three series Wednesday, trying to improve safety after a string of fatal crashes, including Dale Earnhardt's. 
Effective this weekend, dri­vers in the Winston Cup, Busch and Craftsman Truck series must wear either a HANS or Hutchens device at any time they are on the track during a NASCAR-sanctioned event. 
NASCAR has encouraged dri­vers to wear a restraint sys­tem this season, but had declined to make them mandatory before Wednesday. On a regular basis, 42 of the 43 Winston Cup drivers volun­tarily wear one of the two devices. 
"The driving force for the mandate was the level of com­fort among the teams and dri­vers in wearing the devices," NASCAR vice president George Pyne said. "Initially, we didn't feel it was appropriate or the right thing to do to make our drivers feel less safe. 
"But NASCAR has worked closely with safety experts, drivers and manufacturers to address issues that led some drivers to feel that these devices might make them less safe. As time has gone on and teams have grown more com­fortable with them, we felt it was the right thing to do." 
Jeff Gordon, the three-time series champion and current points leader, applauded the decision. Gordon, who wears a HANS device, said he had been uncomfortable until now about NASCAR making restraints mandatory. 
"It took me time to get com­fortable to wearing the device and also understand the way it works," Gordon said. "I do think that it is now the right time. I am a true, true believ­er in them." 

At Morningstar we revolutionixe investing by empowering the investor. And, Great People make it happen everyday. 
Great People Your vision and drive will lead you because what matters mosr to us is your willingness to learn, your ability co perform and your desire for personal and professional growth--not your college major or occupational background. 
Great Place Our values, our culture and our dedication to our employees set us apart. At Morningstar, you'll enjoy competitive compensation, comprehensive benefits package, casual attire and numerous other perks that make Morningstar a "great place" co work. 
Great Products Morningstar is the preeminent source of financial information. Our publications, software and Web sires give investors insightful analysis and groundbreaking tools to analyze their investments and build better portfolios. 
Great Program Bright, new talenr keeps our ideas, produces and culture fresh and innovative. That's why we're committed to finding students who will thrive in our entrepreneurial culture to fill our core positions. 
On Campus We will be visiting Nocre Dame on October 17, 2.001 to conduct a presentation about Morningstar and co give students the opportunity to talk to current employees about their experiences. 
Presentation 10-17-0l Center for Continuing Education-Room 202 Refreshments and resume collection begin at 7:00 pm Presentation to start at 7:30 pm Casual dress appropriate. All majors welcome. 
Interviewing 11-09-01 
Please contact your Career Center if your ore interested in getting on our schedule. 
eoe m/f/d/v 




Science and Engineering Majors 
and 1st Year Prospective Majors Study Abroad Information Mtg. 
129 Dei3artolo Tuesday, October 30, 2001 7:00-9:00 PM 
Study in Perth, Australia London, England Dublin, Ireland Monterrey and Puebla, Mexico 
Applications on-line at: www.nd.edu/~intlstud Application deadline: Dec. 1, 2001 for Acadepiic Year 2002-03 

page 17 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, October 17, 2001 
NFL 
Favre satisfied with great play against Ravens 
Associated Press 
GREE~ BAY, Wis. 

Hrett Favre even impressed himself with his performance against the Baltimore Ravens, 
The three-time MVP can't think of a time 
when he played bet· ter than he did Sunday in disman­tling one of the greatest defenses in NFL history. 
That it came just 


one week Favre after a dis­mal performance at Tampa Bay made it all the sweeter., Favre said. 
"Considering how great their defense is and the way I played the week before, it ranks right there: une, two, three, some-whore around there," Favre said Wednesdav. "Whereas, ihe week before, Tampa, was ranked in the bottom two or three.~ 
After throwing three intercep­tions against the Buccaneers, one of which was returned 98 yards for a touchdown, Favre sliced apart the Ravens, completing 27 of :H passes for :B7 yards, three TDs and no interceptions. 
Favre won his sixth career offensive player of the week award for bis efforts in Green Bay's 31-23 victory OVM Baltimore, which gave him a franchise-best 95 career wins, one more than Hart Starr, and moved him ahead of Terry Bradshaw for best home winning percentage (.849) by a starting quarterback in NFL history. 
Favre admitted Wednesday that he was ,veak-knecd last week thinking about having to face Ray Lewis & Co. 
"l never envisioned going out and being the Player of the Week 

SOUTH BEND OLD BOYS RUGBY CLUB (Under-23 Club) defeats Univ. of Tennessee 14-7 
Try Scorers include Notre Dame students: Peter Boldin '03 & John Rossi '02 

Interested in playing? Contact Dave Bishop at: Dbishop@nd'.edu 

*While composed primarily ofNotre Dame students, this club is not affiliated with the University* 
Team Record: 4-1 

against the best defense in foot­ball," Favre said. "I was scared tu He leads the league with 12 death like everybody else was. I touchdown passes and his passer didn't let on like that, wasn't rating (102.9). completion per­going to back down. But, yeah, I cimtage (68.3) and passing yards was .scared. l was worried. This (1,399 projected to 4,477) would team is great. We have to play a all be career bests if he finishes perfect game, that is hard to do." the season at his current pace. 
But  Favre  "I am  a lit­ 
pulled it off. "When you see him in per­ "I never envisioned going out and being Player of  tle bit older. feel like I am a little wiser,  
son, it's kind of like l\Iichael Jordan."  the Week against the best defense in football. "  but I still feel like I am the same play­ 
Ravens  tight  er,"  Favre  
end  Shannon  Brett Favre  said.  "I  
Sharpe said. "He's as good  quarterback  exp~ct play  to well  
as I've seen at  every time I  
that position in  go  out,  I  

my 12 years in the league." expect to practice that way, all of 
PackArs coach Mike Shermaff those thin~s " said that although Favre has had Favre said he remembers for­five games in his career in which mer Packers coach Mike his passer rating was higher than Holmgren sitting him down about his 137.6 mark Sunday, Favre five years ago and telling him he has mwer been better. had set such a high standard of 
~~ 1' Wet Your Whistle! 
. ~ ~ ( and stuff your face) 
..,.....,hi'.. 

DAILYSPECIALS ~ 
Rate~ # 1 Hot Wings m the area 
Thursday: $200 Margaritas Karaoke 9pm • 1 am 

1803 SOUTH BEND AVENUE -SOUTH BEND, IN Next to Studebagcls. Family Dining Available 
247-9293 

Mmt be 21with valid I[) to consume alcohol 
~ ~ -~ 
s , o r , , 

play that he would inevitably face tougher times down the road. 
"I thought throwing 30 touch­downs five years in a row was routine," Favre said. "Now I real­ize that trying to throw 20 is diffi­cult." 
Two years' worth of pain, whis­pers about his game slipping and sitting at home for the playoffs had a way of humbling Favre. 
"I remember like it was yester­day several years ago that people were calling me for commercials and doing shows and I was in demand for autograph shows and all that junk," Favre said. "And the last couple years I wasn't getting any phone calls. And actually, in a certain sort of way, it was nice. Peaceful. Only because I had been to the so­called mountaintop. 
"Now. these guys arc hitting me every day with interviews and all this stuff" 
Defensive tackle Santana Dotson said while Favre can't do some of the things he did during his brash younger years, ho's better than he ever was. 
"I think he's his old self but even smarter. He may not be the old Brett Favre, but he's not the old Brett Favre," Dotson said. "He knows when to scramble. He knows when to run, He knows when to scramble and throw. A lot of those things, it takes times. It takes game-time experience. He is battle-tested. 
''I'd take this Brett Favre over the one six or seven years ago." 
Molti Bene 
Catalino's Trattoria Downtown South Bend 


The Nanovic Inst:it:ut:e for European Studies 
presents a lecture by 
·/ Antanas Saulaitis, SJ 
"From Repression to Social Engagement: The Lithuanian Church in the Aftermath of the Communist Dictatorship'' 
October 30 4:30pm 119 0'Shaughnessy Hall 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, October 18, 200 l 
ALCS 
Pettitte pitches Yankees to game 1 victory 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE 

Playing with the poise and patience that have become sta­ples of their October suc1.:ess, the New York Yankees were charged up from the get-go. 
And that meant real trouble for these Seattle Mariners. 
Andy Pettitte pitched eight sharp innings, Paul O'Neill. homered and the throe-time defending World Series winners opened the AL Championship Series with a 4-2 victory Wednesdav that was not nearly as close ·as the scoreboard showed. 
"We're used to playing big games," O'Neill said. "We've got jitters and nerves like every­body else. But when we take the field, we've been successful" 
The Mariners scored a run off Mariano Rivera in the ninth, bringing up Edgar Martinez as the tying run. But Rivera broke Martinez's bat on a game-end­ing groundout. 
The Yankees, meanwhile, were ready from the first pitch even before it. 
While the Mariners were still in the dugout preparing to take the field. Chuck Knoblauch and Derek Jeter already had sprung to the on-deck circle. 
Swinging their bats and study­ing Seattle starter Aaron Sele, they even nodded at each other, confident. 
Knoblauch singled on the first pitch and Jeter followed with a long fly that had the sellout crowd of 47,644 at Safeco Field groaning. 
The ball was caught, but it was clear the Yankees were on their way. 
Taking advantage of plate umpire Ed Montague's tight strike zone, the Yankees worked the count all afternoon. The slumping O'Neill hit a two­run homer in the fourth inning on Selo's 66th pitch. 
Jeter didn't do much, other than hit the dirt on a high-and­tight fastball from Sele, but the Yankees didn't need him a lot on this day. 
Especially with Pettitte hold­ing Seattle hitless until the tilth inning and allowing only three bits, and Rivera finishing off the ninth for another postseason save. 
"Obviously, when you've had success in the postscason, you can alwavs lean on it," Pettitte said. · 
Too tired from three cross­country trips in five days'? Nope. Too drained from their stirring comeback over Oakland in the first round of the playoffs? Not a chance. 
O'Neill went to dinner with Pettitte on Tuesday night, and liked what he saw. 
"lie was ready to go," O'Neill said.-"You just knew from the first pitch if he makes his pitch­es, we're going to win." 
Instead, it was the Mariners, the team that tied a major league record with 116 victories and then saved its season with two wins against Cleveland who appeared back on their heels and flipped over them a couple of times. 
Sure-handed lchiro Suzuki stumbled fielding a ball in right field, third baseman David Bell slipped trying to chase down Knoblauch's RBI single and manager Lou Piniella shouted at three different umpires. 
"They've got good starting pitching, and we know that;'' Pinie!la said. "They spent quite a bit of money on it, and it shows." 
Garcia will be working on three days' rest for the second time in his career on June 1, 1999, he gave up six runs in 5 1/3 innings against. Baltimore. 
With security tight at Safeco and a moment of silence to honor the victims of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, Piniella and Yankees manager Joe Torre exchanged an extra handshake after the pregame introductions. 
Then, the Yankees went to work, as always. 
-...I put a lot of weight on post­season experience. I think it eliminates the unknown," Torre said. 
Jorge Posada drew a leadof'f hesitated, wav­

ing home the slow-footed Posada. 
Tberun scored easily and Knoblauch, whom Seattle talked about trading for in midseason. finished with three hits. 
Posada led off the fourth with a drive into the corner and brazenly _challenged Suzuki's rocket arm. 
The throw beat Posada, yet he 
barely managed to slide around 
shortstop Carlos Guillen ·s tag. 
Guillen, who missed the 
Cleveland series because of pul­monary tuberculosis, received a · standing ovation when he bat­ted in the first inning. Perhaps his timing was a bit off, howev­
er, as his tag was slow. 
O'Neill, i_rnly 1-for-11 and 
benched twice in the opening 
round, followed with a line 
drive into the right-field seats 
for a 3-0 lead. 
That was plenty for Pettitte, 
who got the Mariners to chase 
his breaking balls. Ho permitted 
just one runner until Martirwz 
singled to start the fifth. 
Mike Cameron followed with a 
double, but Pettitte limited the 
damage by holding Seattle to 
John Olerud's RBI groun<lout 
and striking out a squawking 
Jay Buhner and Dan Wilson. 
Soriano opened the ninth with 
a shot off the left-field score­
board. But the rookie stood and 
admired the drive, thinking it 
was a home run, and was held 
to a single. 
It was the only un-Yankeelike 
play of the day and it did not 
cost them as he later scored on 
David Justice's single. 
Suzuki. coming off his 12-f'or­20 performance against the Indians in the first round, went 1-for-4 V\;ith a ninth-inning dou­ble and scored on a pair of wild pitches by Rivera. 
Sele lost a playoff game to the Yankees for the fourth straight vear. · He's 0-5 overall in the post­season, including a def'cat in last year's ALCS. 
Now, the Mariners must hope Freddy Garcia can get tlrnm even in the walk in the second and Alfonso Soriano blooped a two-out sin­gle that Suzuki fell trying to handle. 

"As you saw, that was not a divot," Suzuki said through a translator. 
When Knoblauch stepped up next, Suzuki took off his glove and began warming up his arm, anticipating an opposite-lield hit and a play at the plate. 
Instead, Knoblauch pulled .a hard grounder that Bell back­handed, 
best-of­deflecting the seven series "Obviously when you ball into foul 
when he halJe success in the post territory. 
pitches Bell strugglfld
season, you can always
against to keep his foot­M i k e lean on it. " ing as he gave Mussina in chase and Game two third-base
Andy Pettitte

Thursday coach Willie
pitcher

night. Randolph never 
LARGEST SELECTION OF COSTUMES IN THE AREA 
DISCOUNTS 10% -25% 
BURNS COSTUME RENTAL 
Halloween Hours 332 W. Mishawaka Ave. Mon & Tues 9:00-6:00 Mishawaka, IN 46545 Wed, Thurs, Friday 9:00-9:00 ( 219) 259-4807 Phone Sat~rday 9:00-5:00 E-Mail Address Burnsrent@aol.com 
MUSIC FROM A PAINTED 
CAVE 
ANATIVE-AMERICAN MUSICAL EX PERI ENCE 

FEATURING ROBERT MIRABAL 
TUESDAY, OCT. 30TH, 7:30 PM OLAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
/18-fjjfff}
~NOTRE OAME, IN 

Sponsored by The Center for Women's lnterCultural Leadership 
ORMATION CALL THE SAINTMARY'S BOX OFFICE AT 
284-4626 


In nearly fifty (50 !) U,S_ Cities If you live near a city ­YOU can take the plunge! 
THIS IS YOUR LAST CHANCE TO SIGN-UP!!!!!! APPLICATION DEADLINE: 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2001! ! ! 
TURN IN YOUR APPLICATION AT THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Questions? Contact Rebecca Pettit 63 l-9970/Pettit.3@nd.edu at the CSC Registration Forms available also available at the CSC 
Albany •Albuquerque... aoston...Buffalo•Chlcago,111,Cinclnnat1...cIe1.1elam1 Columbus,111,Dallas... oes Molnes+Detrolt+Grand Rapids,111,Honolulu Houston•Louisullle.+lndianapolls•Moblle . New York •Dakland,..Phlladelphia PhoenlH,111,Plttsburgh•St. Petersburg...south Benel,111,San nntonlo San Diego.Tacoma•Washington O.C,,111,RNO MORE! 
The week of January 3-1 O Specific 48 hour period Set by each Site. 


Thursday, October 18, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NFL 
Griese promises to play Sunday 

Associated Press 
DENVER Brian Griese doesn't under­stand all the fuss. 
Bothered by a sore throwing shoulder, the Denver quarter­back did not practice Wednesday but remained confi­dent he will play Sunday when the Broncos (3-2) travel to San Diego (3-2). 
"I don't know whether you guys arc just making a big deal out of it or what, but I think I'm going to play this week," he said. 
Griese, who had reconstruc., tivP surgery on his right shoul­der in January, began experi­encing soreness in •the shoulder two weeks ago and played through the pain during a 34-21 loss to the Seattle Seahawks last week. 
.lie grimacl'd noticeably after being llattPned by Scattl<~ defen­
sive 1md  Lamar King in  the  
l'ourth  q1iarter  and  did  not  
return.  

Tnsts showed no structural damage, and Griese dismissed thP. pain as part of life in the NFL. 
"l havn a lot of soreness in a lot otlwr parts of my body. You guys just don't care about it," he said. ''I've got snreness in my groin. I'v,~ got soreness in my foot, I've got it in my back. added to his comfort level. 
What's in my shoulder is not any "Last year, going into the first 
more than what's in those parts game I played, I didn't know a 
of my body, so I'm going to get lot," Frerotte said. "I think I 
treatment on the parts that hurt shored a lot of that up in the off­
and go on." season and really took care of a 
Griese plans to practice lot of things that I struggled with . 
Thursday and said his latest in this offense. ['m a lot better 
shoulder problem is nothing prepared now, and can do a lot 
compared to better job than I 
the past two "/ d , k h t.h did last year."
on t now w e er One of
years when 
. he had you guys are just making Frerotte's most 
surgery a big deal out ofit or memorable 
following the games came 
1999 and what. but I think I'm against San 2000 sea­going to play this week. " Diego in 2000. sons. H"e threw four ln his in terc:eptions
Brian Griese
absence but set a l)enver
quarterback
Wednesday, record with five 
Gus Frerotte and Jarious Jackson sharf'd the quarterbar·k dutins. 
"Wednesdays I don't do much anyway," Griese said. "I split all the reps with Gus and we don't have as long of practice as we do on Thursday. I go through everything mentally, so the game is more mental for me than it is physical anyway. I don't think it hurts me in any way, shape or form." 
The Broncos went 5-1 with Frerotte down th€ stretch last season after Griese separated his shoulder, and a year of expe­rience in Denver's offense has 
touchdown passes in a 38­3 7 victory over 
the Chargers. 
· "It was a crazy game," he said. "We ended up having to shoot it out. [t was like we were in two­minute offense the whole game." 
Whether Frerotte will make a San Diego encore depends on Griese's improvement over the next few days. Such is the life of a backup quarterback. 
"You know your role," Frerotte said. ~'If I was the starter and I was healthy Saturday, I'd be like, "Hey, I'm playing no matter what.' That's just the way it goes.'' 

Cowboy's Leaf making improvement 
Associated Press 

IRVING, Texas Maybe Ryan Leafreally is maturing. Seeing his last name misspelled "Leif' on the cover of 
his Dallas Cowboys playbook, the quarterback known more fo_r throwing fits than spirals just smiled and 
laughed. 

Asked about a wrist problem that caused him to fail a physical last month, Leaf said, "Nothing's wrong with it at all," then politely answered follow-up questions. He even managed to change the subject by injecting some self-deprecating humor. 
"Every once in a while a ball might get away from me a little bit, but that's 


been the case before. So now I can just Leaf blame it on the wrist," he said. 
Leaf was in good spirits Wednesday, a day after Cowboys coach Dave Campo said his newest quarterback would be closely evaluated the next six weeks while starter Quincy Carter is hobbled. "This is the open window," CampQ said. 
Leaf then spent most of the afternoon practicing with the first team. Temporary starter Anthony Wright was given the day offbecause of swelling in his right knee. 
Evaluating quarterbacks is the theme of Dallas' sea­son. Coaches expected to take a long look at Carter, their top draft pick, but he's played only five quarters because of injuries and is out for six more weeks while recover­ing from hamstring surgery. 
Wright has made three starts in Carter's place, but the team isn't seriously considering him as their long-term answer. If they thought he was, they wouldn't have signed Leaf, who went from the No. 2 pick of the 1998 draft to unemployed. 
Leaf said he probably could be ready to start against the Cardinals. 
"I wouldn't say that is a ludicrous idea, but I think Anthony.has played well since he's been back there," he said. "I don't want to cause any distractions or take the focus away from how hard this team works. 
"I want to work my way into the lineup whatever way I can. When coach Campo believes it's time for me to try to help this ballclub, I'm going to be ready." 
The Cowboys, who wanted to sign him when he was first available, were ready to do it soon after he was released only to be turned away by the wrist problem. A month without throwing apparently was all the recovery he needed. · 
'Tm not bothered by it," Leaf said. "Until it falls off, I'll be out there." 
At 25, Leaf is young enough to have many seasons left in him. And with 18 starts, he has more experience than the other Cowboys quarterbacks combined. 
The big hangup has been his demeanor. He fought with teamm.ates, management and fans throughout his three years in San Diego. Overcoming that well-earned reputation as a troublemaker is as important as turning around his ratio of 33 interceptions to 13 touchdowns. 
Dallas quarterback coach Wade Wilson believes Leaf can do it. Wilson has found Leaf to be a dedicated work­er in the classroom and is looking forward to seeing him on the field. 
"Any time a young guy plays, they're going to make mistakes. It's just how mentally strong they can he to deal with that," said Wilson, who was an NFL QB l't 19 seasons. "Some people handle it better than others. Now I think he's at the point where he's learned from his mis­takes.'' 
Wilson has watched tapes of every NFL game Leaf has played and considers all his mistakes correctable. Wilson said Leaf has as strong an arm as Troy Aikman, who parlayed talent and smarts into three Super Bowl titles during his 12 years in Dallas. 
"Ryan is physkaUy capable of throwing the football with anybody in the league right now," Wilson said. I ,cal' rccogniws he may not get many more chances to resurrect his once-promising career. 
"They say the average length of an NFI. earner is 3 1/2 years and that's right \Vhere I'm at.'' he said. "I've told my wife this is probably my last chance, so I've got to make the most ofit. I like the situation I'm in." 
Yet Leaf' is being cautious. So far, he's only renting a home. 
"When they want to give me that 10-year deal," he said, smiling again, "then I'll buy something.'' 

NFL 
Manning sets it straight 
Pathon has not prac­intend to stay the 
Associated Pres. 
ticed since spraining a course. INDIANAPOLIS foot late in Indianapolis' The no-huddle offense Peyton Manning didn't 44-13 loss at Ne-w that worked so effec­
mince words. England three weeks tively the first two 
"I want to set. the ago and is listed as games has not been as record straight," the doubtful for this week's proficient in the last Indianapolis Colts quar­game. two losses, when the terback said If Pathon misses his Colts managed just 31 Wednesday. "All the second straight game points. interceptions are my this week, rookie Reggie But Manning said fault. When you 're the Wayne is likely to start there is no correlation quarterback, you take for the second time in between not huddling the blame. That's why his pro career. and turning over the 
you get paid the big Wayne made his first ball. bucks." NFL catch, for 20 yards, "That's never been a Manning wanted to Sunday. Manning said problem,•: he said. make it clear there was 
he liked what he saw "Whether we're hud­nobody else to blame from Wayne in the dling or not huddling, for what's been an game, and then at prac­we're still snapping the unusual problem this tice Wednesday. ball at the same point season -his league­"I thought Heggie on the clock. It comes leading nine intercep­looked a lot better today down to execution." 
than he did last week," And coach Jim Morations. 
He has gone through Manning said. "Once said he's doing nothing such a problem only one again, he'll be a big big to change Manning's other time since enter­factor this week." style. 
ing college -that being With the Colts having Mora said Manning, a his rookie season in the lost consecutive games, two-time Pro Bowl Manning doesn't intend
NFL when he set a team quarterback, is simply 
record with 28. to look backward. making the kinds of 
In Sunday's 23-18 loss Instead, he's hoping to mistakes all quarter­to Oakland, Manning do everything he can to backs make. threw two more inter­make sure the Colts win "He hasn't played per­ceptions -one was twice in eight days. fect, but he's not unlike returned for a touch­"We didn't make any other player in this down, the other ended enough plays to win," business,"· Mora said. 
the Colts' comeback 
he said. "This isn't a 'Tm sure he'd like to hopes in the final panic situation, but have some of those minute. there's certainly a sense throws back, but I think 
Manning was without of urgency. We want to every quarterback in his leading receiver, be 4-2 by this time next the history of football Jerome Pathon, in the Thursday." would probably say loss Sunday. To do that, the Colts that." 
NATIONAL CAR RENTAL CLASSIC 
Disney World closes practice to fans 
along with their PGA Tour badges.
Associated Press 

Even Woods, the No. 1 player in the 
LAKE BUENA VISTA, Fla. world, was stopped Wednesday 
Tiger Woods usually plays his prac­morning as he walked from the park­tice rounds at dawn and sometimes ing lot toward the Magnolia Course. finishes before the gallery can find He flashed his driver's license, but 
him. That wasn't hard to do couldn't find his tour badge. The Wednesday, because ·there was no security guards hesitated, then let gallery. him through. 
The National Car Rental Classic at Charles Howell III, who hasn't won Disney World closed practice rounds the career Grand Slam or 29 PGA to spectators this week as part of new Tour events, wasn't so lucky. security measures. "I pulled up to the gate and my ID 
"I didn't hear about it until we was in my trunk, in my golf bag," were on the back nine," Woods said. Howell said. "I had to dig through my · The policy hardly affected the luggage to get my ID out." masses. Because there are more Paul Azinger was among those kept entertaining things to do at Disney from entering the locker room with­World than watch a bunch of golfers out his badge. hit shots that don't count, tourna­The PGA Tour increased security ment officials estimate only about 60 immediately after the Sept. 11 
people show up for practice rounds. attacks. In the first tournament back, 
Those who tried Wednesday were the Pennsylvania Classic, Arnold turned away. Palmer was asked for identification 
Disney has never sold tickets to the before he entered the clubhouse at practice rounds. Only the dates of Laurel Valley -a club where he is a tournament play -Thursday founding member. through Sunday -are marked on the Among new tour policies is a ban tickets. In previous years, In previous on any bag larger than a purse, and years, Disney allowed those with every bag is subject to a search. That weekly tickets to attend the practice includes the players, whose golf bags rounds. are checked before they make it past 
"As with other security measures a checkpoint and onto the course. across the country, whatever hap­"We want to treat everyone equal­pened last year or even yesterday is ly," Weickel said. 
irrelevant," tournament director A few fans staying in hotels made it Kevin Weickel said. "We're trying to onto the course, but were ushered provide for the safest environment." off. One man managed to get Woods' 
Players must show a photo identifi­autograph as he sat in his cart after cation when entering the course, teeing off on the 10th hole. 

i--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------.. --·----------­
Thursday, October 18, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
Irish 
continued from page 24 
especially against a Hoosier defenst> that has been almost superhuman, not all.owing a goal in the previous 460 min­utns of thn strnson. 
Later in the hall'. it was a.II defense for the Irish. 
'.\l o L r t\ 
"Notre Dame is a very

[) a m n 
organized team. 

stacked ninn play­It was very tough for us ers into 
to get through their 

the defen­
defense."

sive Pnd of the l'ield. suffocating 
Colin Rogers 

any scor­
Indiana goalkeeper

ing opµor­
ttmities for t b e Hoosiers. 
"Notre Dame is a very organized team.·· said Indiana ke1~per Colin Rogers. "lt was very tough for us to get through their defense." 
For a team looking to step up inlO the elite of collegiate soccPr, wins likf' Wednesday's over nationally respectf'd and consistenlly 
successful programs like Indiana's are crucial. 
..[Indiana's] such a success­ful team over the last decade that anybody who knows soc­cer is familiar with them," said Clark. "They're a good team, they're tough and well-coached. I've got noth­ing but respect for them." 
The win moved Notre Dame 
up to 7-4 on the season. 
N o t r e 
Dame  now  
moves  on  to  
face  yet  

another sea­son-defining test against No. 21 Boston College. The Irish will host the 8-3 Eagles on 
Saturday at 7:30 p.m. at Alumni Field, a game Clark is looking forward to. 
"As far as I'm concerned that game is behind us. Boston College is much more important." said Clark. 
Contact Jeff Baltruzak at jbaJtru 1@nd.edu. 
Belles 
continued from page 24 
the second half. 
"We've been working hard on focusing and playing really hard for the first 10 minutes of each half," Johnston said. ··we talked about it at half time. I don't think the girls fully understood the concept until this point." 
Saint Mary's is in action again this Saturday against Alma. The Belles have already beaten the Scots, 4-3. earlier in the sAason. The team is looking for­ward to a good game. "'We're going to keep everything the same because we're playing well," Johnston said. 'Tm happy with the girls' performance. I'm proud of their efforts and I'm proud of them." 
The game begins at noon at Alma College. 
Contact Katrina Kalasky at kalaS482@nd.edu. 



Thursday, October 18, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 22 
Busy week entertains 
Well, its been a busy week in the world of sports and in case you don't happen to have espn.com set as your default homepage. you might have missed out on some of the major occur­rences that have devel­oped of late. 
Fear 

not. 
sports fans, I have been on top of it all and am here to bring you a brief summary of some of the big­ger events to rock the sports world. Hang on tight and enjoy your weekly briefing. 
. The Yankees stave off play­off elimination. beating Oakland 3-2 in their division­al playoff series 
I don't know how they do it but America's oldest team still seems to come up huge in the clutch. True, the majority of their team (Roger Clemens, El Duque, Tino Martinez) will be up for Social Security by the end of the playoffs, but that doesn't seem to prevent these guys from producing. 
Heck, at this rate, the Yanks could probably plug Boggs and Mattingly into the lineup and watch them hit .400. It's just absurd. The only consolation in this will be watching Seattle bounce these chumps out of the play­offs in four games. (Note: The Yankees just completed a game one 4-2 victory over the Mariners -what! How the heck did that happen?). 


. The Notre Dame offense comes alive to the tune of 345 rushing yards and 34 points against West Virginia 
Sure, the halfback plunge looks great on a slippery field against a mediocre defense, but can we play this well against top-tier competition? 
Okay, let's be fair: The offensive line played superbly against the Mountaineers, but the Irish are still going to have to be a little more suc­cessful passing the football if they hope to earn a victory against USC next week. 
. Michael Jordan scores 18 points against the Heat in preseason NBA action: 
With all those MJ worship­pers out there jumping for joy, it's easy to get caught up in the hype and forget that Jordan will be 39-years old in February. However, the Wizards do look like a some­what respectable team this year and maybe the leader­ship of a savvy superstar is just what they need. 
We may not be looking a Chicago dynasty, but at least this comeback appears respectable. Just try to close your eyes and look away when Jordan gets a thorough schooling at the hands of the Bryants, McGradys and Carters of the league. 
. 
The surprising New York Islanders have jumped out to the NHL's best regular sea­son record through two weeks of play: Huh? NHL'1 When did that whole thing begin? Wow, I really missed the boat on that one. No big deal, though. Just wake me when the Stanley Cup finals begin. 

. 
The Dallas Cowboys earn a tough 9-7 victory against the Washington Redskins in a fierce Monday night football battle: Honestly, can football get any more exciting than this? When Anthony Wright isn't throwing interceptions and Stephen Davis isn't coughing up fumbles, we are treated to a plethora of missed field goals and penal­ties -as if this epic battle for draft position wasn't enough to keep us entertained! 


Plus, the obligatory shots of Daniel Snyder and Jerry Jones pacing nervously in their respective luxury boxes makes for added viewing enjoyment. It's just a shame these teams only play each other twice a year. 
Contact Colin Boylan at cboylan@nd.edu. The opin­ions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Davie said. Although Grant said that he
Grant 
and Howard had been taking a majority of the snaps with the
continued from page 24 
first team offense in practice senior year, said he was hoping this week, he acted surprised to make an impact early, but he when reporters told him Davie 
knew he had a lot to learn said he would probably see be before he playing time. would be But Grant 
ready to "/felt like I could insists he's not 
take the worried that
contribute pretty early. I
field. his first game 
"I felt felt like [in terms of} is such a high­
like I athletic ability, I was up to profile rivalry could con­like Notre
par with everyone else.,. 
tribute Dame and pretty USC. In fact, early," he Ryan Grant he said he said. "I might not even
Irish tailback 
felt like [in terms of] athletic ability, I was up to par with everyone else. I just had to learn the system, the offense, the plays, the protection, that type of stuff. That takes time to learn. You're just not going to be able to jump in and learn that right away." 
Grant described himself as a combination of Jones, Fisher and Howard and said his great­est strength was his work ethic. 
'Tm a slasher, a hard runner, a north-south runner," he said. "I think I cut pretty well ... my speed is one of my assets, but I'm willing to work hard." 
"He's really a kind of guy we're all anxious to watch," find out unti! 
game time if 
he's going to play. The only thing he can do is continue practicing and focusing on Saturday's game as if it were any other game. 
"I feel pretty good," Grant said. "I'm anxious, but I don't feel nervous. That may change Saturday, but I'm a pretty poised person and I think I can handle the pressure." 
Notes: 

. Due to an injury to starting guard Sean Milligan, Davie said fifth-year senior J.W. Jordan will probably start Saturday. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 




Thinking of The London Program for Fall 2002 or Spring 2003? 
You are strongly encouraged to turn in your completed application by 5:00pm on Friday, October 19, 2001. 
Applications will be accepted until 5:00pm on Monday, October 29, 2001. 
Thursday, October 18, 2001 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
WHILE THE nve BURGER WILL BRING YOU UFE. THE f "'LSE ONE WILL 
TAKE IT FROM YOU 


FOXTROT 
YOOlc MOMMA THINKS 
SQUARE RooTS ARE VEGETABLES. 
I 

(~ 
OH, YEAH? 'YoUR 
MOfvNA THINICS 'POLYGONS TIJQN INTO FROGS. 
The Observer . TODAY 
TOM KEELEY 
BILL AMEND 

WELL, '!'OUR MOMMA. COULDN'T INTEG~ATE A 
NESTED 'l'R1& FUNCTION, EVEN IF "t'OU LET HER USE A COMPOTElc. 
c~ 
BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNINGHAM 


Male Hookers 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 26 Mid 6th-century 49 Movement from date Mozart's
1 Harem "Jupiter"accessory 27 Big inits. in Symphony4 Word with cake Detroit 52 "The Sopranos" or runner 29 Part of la familia matriarch7 Singer Scaggs 30 "Yes,_• 54 Former U.S. 
10 15 _ {tennrs 31 Opera's La_ Open champ score) Monica's cry 34 Former U.S. 
13 Hubbub upon seeing 
Open champ 

14 Occasional wooden rackets
Chris's answer

puzzle solver's in her locker?
to "Who'll be

action 56 Kind of radio
tops this year?" 16 20-20, e.g. 57 Leave 50%,
38 "No Strings

17 Former U.S. maybe
Attached" band

Open champ 58 Itinerary abbr. 39 Are, eventually
Martina's feeling 59 Conductor de 
about an icon? 40 "A pox on you!" Waart 20 Strain locus 41 Brooding author 60 El _ (Heston 21 Praising role}
42 Kind of agent 61 Extreme suffix 22 Mars, to Uranus 43 "Keep it" 62 Snake's sound 23 Some O.C.S. 

44 Cracked

grads 
24 Recessed area 47 One or more DOWN 1 Dracula feature 
25 Hubbub 48 Erelong 2 Worship 3 Classic Grant/ ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE Bergman film 

4 They hold your PIIZZle by James Rogers horses 18 Yesterday, to 37 Tennis call 50 Fair-hiringI M N 5 Coffee holder 
Yves 43 Sully watchdog: Abbr. E Y E 6 1521 visitor to 
19 Paw 44 "I _ Walrus" 51 Rikki-likki-_ 

S T Guam 25 Mud hole 45 Zealot's crusade 53" Death"
7 Wrecks 26 Charleston, e.g. 46 Meter starter ("Peer Gynt 
8 Roughly Suite" piece) 

9 Passion 27 Junkies 47 Shown 10 Hoisted, 28 A lot of plot 48 Nodded 55 Serena, to Venus nautically 
30 Hand: Sp.11 Legal claims 32 Hash ingredients Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
33 Psychiatrists of are available by touch-tone phone: 15 Unique claim of 
old 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
the U.S. Open 35 Island nation Annual subscriptions are available for the player whose best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50E V .;..;.J.;.;...~~~ B A R name is hidden 36 "You're so years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. .
Z E ~.;;..a.~~-E N S in 34-Across clever" 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2001 
..
CELEBRITIES BORN ON You have nothing to worry about 
TifIS DAY: Martina Navratilova, if you're responsible and well­Chuck Berry, Wynton Marsalis, organized today. Being a perfec­Violeta Chamorro, Jean-Claude tionist about another's incompe­Van Damme tence will lead to frustration. 
Happy Birthday: Caution is Keep things in perspective. 000 your best friend. You can achieve LIBRA (Sept .23-0ct. 22): Day­plenty, but choose projects wisely. dreaming about distant lands dis­Put your energy where your tal­tracts you from your work. You ents are used in the best way. You might be wise to take a mental 
can make money by making sacri­health day to relax, reorganize fices in the interim. Your num­your thoughts and center your­bers: 7, 12, 28, 33, 40, 46 self. 000 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): If Mingle, present ideas to promote you are suspicious, do some pri­yourself, and make new friends. vate investigating. Knowing the 
Children will look up to you. truth will make you feel better. Being a positive influence raises Someone is probably making your self-esteem and confidence. empty promises, and you need 000 some answers before deciding 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): your position or future. 000 Take it easy today. You may enjoy SAGrrrARIUS (N1111 22-Dec. 21.): participating in physical activities You're on the go today. Present but don't overexhaust yourself. your ideas to those in influential The rumors flying around are positions, but don't suggest that likely to be false. 000 you'll do something for nothing. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): 000 Obtain advice from respected CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): older relatives or friends and take Your shrewd business nature is the initiative lo help the weak and not easy to read, which gives you feeble. Your gift of gab will enter­an edge. Your partner may be tain and lift the spirits of those worried about your secretive around you today. 000 nature and decisions on money 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): matters. Hold tight and do what Someone at home will be going you feel is required. 0000 through a difficult time. Listen for AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): now and don't try to force him or Officials will not see things the her to do things your way. Don't way you do. Don't take cliances lose sight of your own responsi­while driving. Be cautious when bilities. 00000 dealing with overprotective peo­
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Be p le. It's time to stand on your reluctant to make a decision or own two feet. 00 take action if you haven't got all PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): the information you require. You Kick back with friends and have can't rely on others to interpret some fun. They can shed some your actions properly today so light on your personal situation. don't leave anything to chance. Be Make some changes that will help prepared to defend yourself. 00 create an image of a vibrant go­
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): getter. 00000 
Birthday Baby: You are energetic, intelligent and imaginative. You are dedicated and devoted to loved ones as well as sensitive, romantic and eager to try new things. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
ll:) 2001 Univezs.al Press Syndicate 

**STUDENTS ALWAYS FREE !!** 
·o·cT. :20 vs. ;~Os.To-: ·C0·1:-:. 
® 7-~aG ·PM @ 
* Free Pizzo while supplies last! 
:.t1d ~aJ)a Vino•~ 
~~ ©~ 

National Sports OTHE National Sports
BSERVER 

. NLCS, p. 14 
. NFL, p. 19, 17 
. 
ALCS, p. 18 . PGA, p. 20


PORTS 
Thursday, October 18, 2001 

ND MEN'S SOCCER 
Irish upset No. 6 Hoosiers 
Braun sgoal gives Notre Dame third win in 2I tries against Indiana 
en Indiana only twice in 21 meet­
By JEFF BALTRUZAK 
ings. "The first thing is that one 
Assistant Sports Editor 
swallow doesn't make a summer. As 
far as I'm concerned it's a big win, 
On the strength of Erich Braun·s but in isolation it doesn't mean team-leading ninth goal of the sea­much." son, the Notre Dame men's soccer The Irish were able to score just 
team had its biggest victory in years four minutes into the second half. 1-0 against No. 6 Indiana when sophomor(l midfielder Chad Wednesday night, the first win over Riley launched a 40 yard pass to fel­
a ranked opponent this low sophomore season. Devon Prescod.
"We've got to beat them a
The Irish put togeth­Prescod put the er an outstanding team few more times before we ball into freshman effort. led by freshman midfielder Kevin
can start claiming
goalie Chris Sawyer, Goldthwaite, who
dominance.··
who had four saves was able to cross and did not allow a the ball to Braun: Hoosier goal. Bobby Clark Braun finished the It was the kind of play from close in,
head coach 
game head coach for the only score 
Bobby Clark was of the game.brought in last year to "The goal was a terrific one and win, but he was quick to point out was set up very well," Clark said. 
that it was just one win in a long Braun has been as consistent a scor­season. er as possible, having scored a goal 
"We've got to beat them a few for the Irish in each of the last eight more times before we can start games.claiming dominance," said Clark, The goal was huge for the Irish, 
Irish forward Erich Braun moves the ball downfield during a game earlier this
pointing out that the Irish have beat-
see IRISH/page 21 season. Braun scored Notre Dame's only goal Wednesday night. 

SMC SOCCER 
Belles blow 2 goal lead, fall to Comets 
By KATRINA KALASKY 
Sports Writer 
ln their first home game in two weeks, the Belles stayed close with Olivet before falling 5-4 
after 13 minutes of overtime Wednesday. 
The game started out slowly. Only two goals were scored 


in the first Johnston 
half, both by Olivet. 
In the first six minutes of the second half. Saint Mary's junior Heather Muth scored 
three times in a row to put the Belles up 3-2. Freshman Jen Concannon assisted the third goal. 
Nine minutes later, Concannon scored to add 
another point for the Belles. 
It looked as though a win was in the bag for Saint Mary's until Olivet scored twice to bring the Comets even with the Belles. 
This meant sudden death to determine the winner. 
With two and a half min­utes left in overtime, the Comets scored the game-win­ner off of a corner kick. 
"We started out real slow, it was 0-2 at the half," Concannon said. "Then we came back to make the score 4-2. Then we let down a lit­tle. It is a very hard loss because it was our chance to move up to fourth in the con­ference." 
It was a very eventful and stressful second half for the Belles and their fans. 
Head coach Bobby Johnston described the change from the first half to 
see BELLES/page 21 
FOOTBALL 

Grant ready for debut 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Associate Sporrs Editor 
With tailbacks Julius Jones and Tony Fisher not practicing for the second day in a row due to injuries, Notre Dame 
h e a d coach Bob Davie sug­gested that freshman R y a n G r a n t might play his first 

snap in a Grant collegiate g a m e against USC this weekend. 
"Right now it looks like Terrance lloward and Ryan Grant [will be playing most of 
the time !!iaturdayl," Davie said after practice Wednesday. "We're a little knicked up right now, so it's a concern." 
Davie said Fisher sat out practice with a knee injury, while Jones was nursing a sore Achilles tendon. He listed both tailbacks as doubtful for Saturday's game. 

"We rely so much on the running game and the timing of things," Davie said. "From a continuity standpoint, we're a little bit out of whack." 
Notre Dame's current tail­back situation is similar to the beginning of the season, when Fisher, Jones, Howard and Grant were all injured during the first week of practice. In fact, the injuries were so numerous that at one point, junior Chris Yura and fresh­man Marcus Wilson -unlist­ed on the Irish depth chart ­were carrying the brunt of the tailback duties before they got injured, too. 
With the possibility that Fisher and Jones will be unable to compete Saturday, Davie said Howard and Grant would probably see playing time against USC. And while Davie said he was confident in both tailbacks, Howard and Grant haven't seen much play­ing time. 
Howard has only carried the ball seven times for 11 yards so far this year. While he has played in all five of Notre Dame's games and started against Nebraska, he did not carry the ball against Michigan State and Texas A&M after fumbling on Notre Dame's offensive first play of the season against Nebraska. 
Grant has yet to see any playing time so far this year, but coaches plan to play the freshman sometime this year. Last week, Davie said he 
. hoped Grant would get his first carry: but coaches were unable to put him in the game. But this week, that seems almost certain to change. And Grant said he's ready to play. 'Tm just trying to stay focused and work hard," he said. "I go into every game feeling like I'm ready to play. You never know what hap­pens." The young freshman quickly caught coaches' eyes at the beginning of training camp. Grant, who was named the player of the year for New Jersey by USA Today his 
see GRANT/page 22 

. 
SMC Soccer at Alma, Saturday, 12 p.m. 

. 
Football vs. USC, Saturday, 1:30 p.m.


SPORTS 
. Men's Soccer vs. Boston College, Saturday, 7:30 p.m.AT AGLANCE . Women's Soccer at Connecticut, Sunday, 1 p.m. 
' 
'
'-----------­






