
Going to the Drive-In 
Molly's Club 
With its latest release. At The Drive-In 
Members ofthe mysterious Molly's Club 

Tuesday
establishes itselfas one ofthe most intense 
respond to yesterday's article and further 
punk-rock bands in America today. 
explain the club's unique organization. 
FEBRUARY 13,
Scene . page 13 
Viewpoint . page 10 
2001 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 86 HTTP://Ol)SERVER.N D.EDU 



Norton and Becker win primary 
NEWS ANALYSIS 
Clinton's final days controversial 
ByMEGDADAY 
NcwsWritrr 
At 54 years old, Bill Clinton is tho yo1mgest president since World War II to exit office after serving two full terms. Until the linal hours, his presi­dency was tainted with scandal, yet through it all he main­tained high p u b I i c 
a p p r o v a I 
Cllnton ratings. On his last day in office, Clinton struck a deal with independent counsel Robert Ray which protects him from indictment. Under the terms of the settlement. Clinton acknowledged that he gave false testimony under oath and agreed to give up his Arkansas law license for five years. The settlement extinguished any possibility that charges related to the Whitewater investigation or the Paula Jones case could be brought against him. Negotiations regarding the agreement between indepen­dent counsel and Clinton advi­sors had been going on for months and both Democrats and Hepublicans were relieved that the issue was resolved before President Bush assumed office. 
Government professor Susan Ohmer said that it was "far bet­ter for Clinton to make his own deal in advance rather than leave his fate in Bush's h,mds." 
Daniel Lipinski, also a gov­ernment professor added, "George W. Bush meds as much cooperation from Democrats as possible. He wants to put the Clinton scan­dals behind him." 
As part of the agreement, Clinton admitted that some of the responses he gave in a deposition in January 
1998 for the Paula Jones case  "Everyone has an opinion about Clinton and euery­ Arguably, one of the most controversial  
regarding the intern Monica Lewinsky  thing that happened within the last few days went along with what  pardons by Clinton was that of Marc Rich. who has  
were false. "I'm sure (Clinton)  they already thought about him."  resided in Switzerland for the last 17  
didn't want  years evading  
to  tarnish  Daniel Lipinski  charges  of  
his last few days in  government professor  trading with Iran in viola- 
office," said  tion  of sanc­ 

Lipinski. "He was able to spin tions and tax fraud. it. Some people say he admitted Law enforcement officials it and some say he didn't. ... have expressed their opposition Everyone has an opinion about to the pardon because it did not Clinton and everything that go through the proper Justice happened within the last few Department channels, but days went along with what they instead was sent directly to already thought about him." President Clinton. Rich's 
In addition to receiving lawyer. former White House immunity, Clinton granted par­dons to more than 150 people 
see CLINTON/page 4 
during his last few days in office. Some of the more promi­nent figures pardoned include: Susan McDougal, who was jailed as a result of the Whitewater scandal; former secntary of Housing and Urban Development Henry Cisneros; heiress Patty Hearst Shaw who robbed a bank in 1974 after being kidnapped by political radicals; his half-brother Roger, who admitted to dealing cocaine in Arkansas; and for­mer director of central intelli­gence John 
Deutch. 


Court rules in favor of recording industry 
. Napster users download music in last-minute rush 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO 
Napster Inc.'s free Internet 
music-swapping experiment 
was imperiled Monday by a 
federal court's decision that it 
must halt what millions have 
come to enjoy: the sharing of 
copyrighted recordings. 
Though 
Napster 

"/ think its going to be
vowed to I o b b y fight the rough for everyone who Congress. ruling by He said
is getting free music." 
the 9th U.S. the compa­Circuit ny, whose Court of Marc Nuno file-swap­Appeals -junior ping clear­
and its backer Bertelsmann AG vowed contin­ued support -the music shar­ing free-for-all via Napster may only last a. few more weeks. 
Ruling in favor of the music industry, the three-judge panel found that "Napster has knowledge, both actual and constructive, of direct infringe­ment" of copyrights. The industry says nearly 90 per­cent of the music traded via Napster's servers is pirated. 
"It's time for Napster to stand down and build their business the old-fashioned 
inghouse 

can contin­ue to operate until a lower court retools its injunction, would pursue every legal means to remain alive. No hearing date has been set. 
Minutes after Monday's deci­sion was announced, Napster users were trading more than 
1.5 million files on just one of the company's more than 100 servers. Some were lamenting what they considered Napster's imminent demise. 
Although Notre Dame and Saint Mary's banned use of 
see NAPSTER/page 4 

way. They must get permission first," said Hilary Rosen, presi­dent and CEO of the Recording Industry Association of America. 
"This decision pretty much writes Napster's epitaph. Its days as an instrument of shoplifting are over," said Chuck Cooper, a lawyer on the RIM team. 
Napster CEO Hank Barry said the company would appeal to a larger panel of the 9th Circuit, and called on Napster users to 
2001 Primary Elections Results 

-Norton/Moscona -Gottlieb/Fetterman L.:.J Becker/McCord -Ziedler/Henisey -Smith/Andre -Zimmerman/Nelson 
JOSE CUELLAR/The Observer 
• Smith/Andre ticket comes in a close third 
By LAURA ROMPF 
Assiscant News Editor 
Except for the 30 seconds it took to fill out a ballot. Monday was normal for most students. But for the 12 can­didates 
Becker,
running for 
whose tick­
student 
et received
body presi­
23 percent
dent and 
of the vote,
vice presi­
said he is
d e n t , 
satisfied
Monday 
with the 
was the 
totals.
culmina­
" A I l
tion of 
along we
weeks of 
wanted to make sure that
campaigning, hanging signs 
we'd make it to the second
and shaking hands. 
day," Becker said. "There
At a little after 9 p.m., 
were a lot of good candidates
Judicial Council vice presi-

Norton 
dent of elections John Bauters informed the six tickets that Brooke Norton and Brian Mascona would face Hyan Becker and Nikki McCord in Thursday's run-off election. 
"I was really excited to hear the results," said presidential candidate Brooke Norton, whose ticket received 42 per­cent of the vote. "I am looking forward to a hard week." 
R y a n 

this year and we're happy simply to make it to the run­
off." 
Last year's student body elections included several campaign violations. a dis­qualification and an appeal. but Bauters said this year's election has run smoothly so far. 
"The reason this year's election has been so good is because we have quality can­di dates across the board," Bauters said. "The Notre Dame student body had tho most difficult decision it's had in years." 
Bauters said election sta­tions in each dorm closed by 7 p.m. and judicial council members counted the 3,801 total ballots in a little over an hour so the results could be announced by 9 p.m. 
Demetra Smith and Yogeld Andre surprised many by 
see ELECTION/page 4 



page 2 The Oburver . INSIDE Tuesday, F<:_bruary 13, 2001 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Elect-a-poser 
I often wonder why we even have elections. It is disheartening to think that once again. we as a student body will fool ourselves into thinking that voting a new ticket into office may bring visible change. 
With less than half of of the student body voting in yes­terday's primary, it is clear that most students have given up hope -and under­standably so. I don't know which is more depressing, endorsing a ticket that will do nothing but continue to ride on the backs ofthe Administration. or not voting at all. 
Granted. there are two tickets that are more inclined to voice the true concerns of the student body, but even if they were elected. I seriously doubt that much would change, ifat all. 
One platform on the Norton/Moscona ticket is extending parietals to 1 a.m. Two words -yeah right. While this is a noble attempt to add a whopping 60 minutes to entertain members of the opposite sex in donn rooms, for some reason, I am not convinced that the Administration will bend the hallowed words of du Lac to accommo­date the complaints of weary students. 
What I am convinced of is that the Norton/Moscona ticket is well aware of this fact in an attempt to rake in more votes from a large­ly disgruntled student body. 
The Smith/Andre ticket wanted to reduce book­store prices. While most students are tired of being mugged by ridiculous prices, trying to negotiate up a steep corporate ladder is hardly the way to go. Instead of empathizing with ripped off students, Follet will most likely laugh in our poor faces and continue to hitch prices in a highly monopolized market. 
The Zeidler/Henisey ticket proposed transform­ing the Alumni-Senior bar into an eight-lane bowling alley. OK Let's assume that the Administration does agree to build this prized bowling alley. Ifin the event that people actually do decide to show up to on a Friday or Saturday night. more than bowling balls will go rolling down the lanes. 
Instead of wasting tons of money on a bowling alley, the University could direct this money to the much needed and demanded renovations of our student center. Expanding the dining cuisine to something more that Burger King and really bad pizza would definitely be a welcome addi­tion. 
The Zimmerman/Nelson ticket suggested level­
ling off GPA's in all colleges. Does this mean that 
this ticket wants professors in the College of Arts 
and Letters or the Mendoza College of Business 
to start giving out more Cs and Ds so that 
Engineering and Science majors can feel better 
about their grades? As Zimmerman is an engi­
neering major. I believe that the twisted ratio­
nale above is not too far off mark. 
While I am not encouraging students to discon­
tinue voter participation, it just seems a little 
ironic that the democratic process that so many 
students revere does little in the way of promot­
ing the voices of those who matter the most. 
Instead it seems that student government elec­
tions are now more than empty formalities. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Maureen Smithe Sam Derheirner Kiflin Tumer Chris Scott Finn Pressly Graphics 
Sports Katie McKenna 
Bryan Kronk Production Tim Casey Kerry Smith Viewpoint Lab Tech 
Kurt Bogaard Liz Lang 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction riglm uc reserved. 
QUOTES OF THE WEEK 
"Their jobs seem to "The Right saw those have minimal impact, nuns and me in a sort they could be a chimp ofway as commu­
and it wouldn't nists-naive trouble­matter." some communists amidst a real Senior Emmett Malloy struggle. " on the position of student body president or Father Timothy Scully vice president on his experiences In a Chilean community 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
OUTSIDE THE DOME 


Activists protest Bush's anti-abortion laws 
LOS ANGELES 
University or California-Los Angeles activists assembled in Meyerhoff Park on Friday to protest President Bush's reinstatement of an abortion-related law. 
The policy requires non-govern­mental organizations that receive fed­eral funds to agree to neither perform nor actively promote abortion as a method of family planning in other nations. 
"We want to make sure that women in developing countries have access to all reproductive health care informa­tion and the same rights we have here in the U.S.," said Steven Emmert. senior vice president of Planned Parenthood in Los Angeles. one of the speakers at the rally. 
Students and sympathizers gath-
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA· DAVIS 
Examiner claims death not suicide 
DAVIS, Calif. 
An independent medical examiner has confirmed what Andrew Wieman's famiJy has suspected all along: that their 20-year-old son was a victim of homi­cide. The Wieman's hired forensic pathologist Dr. John Cooper who examined the body of the UC Davis junior in Eureka, Calif. on Tuesday and found "compelling evidence" to conclude that Wieman did not commit suicide. "This is not a suicide, could not be a suicide and is in fact a relatively vicious crime," Cooper said during a press conference Friday. He conducted the autopsy with the permission of the Yolo County coro­ner. Although Cooper did not reveal details about the nature of the wounds, he explained that the injury pat­terns were not consistent with suicide. The pending investigation prevents Cooper from releasing further details. "(The Wiemans) were, of course, disturbed by the extent of the injuries and by the nature of them, but they were not at all surprised to hear the conclu­sion," Cooper said. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast Aa:uWeadlfl" 11,recadorda · cooditions and high temp:rawres 


~-~-~4?,Q.Q (f ~ u 
Showe,s T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice SUllny Pl. Cloudy Clou~ 
V-iaAssoc:iar9dPreti$G,aplw:sN•I 
UCLA 
ered to listen to speakers and then marched as a group protesting what they called anti-reproductive rights legislation. 
The rally began with speeches by representatives from Planned Parenthood and the National Abortion 

NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY 
Student alters grades, faces felony 
EVANSTON, Ill. 

A Northwestern University student who was arrested and expelled after breaking into his professor's office and attempting to change his grades appeared Feb. 1 at Circuit Court in Skokie on a felony charge of bur­glary. Vincent Rosso. 20. confessed in December to breaking into his computer science professor's office with a crowbar. attempting to change hi~ grades by altering his professor's computer file and stealing his professor's laptop computer, said Lt. Glenn Turner of University Police. He is scheduled to appear at Circuit Court in April after completing a two-month psycholog­ical evaluation requested by his defense attorney, Turner said. Asst. Prof. Jennifer Schopf arrived at her third-floor office the Friday of finals week of fall quar­ter, to find her office door open, the door handle almost broken off, and her laptop computer missing, Turner said. By comparing a hard copy of the grades with the file. Schopf determined that three students' grades had been changed. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeathere forecast tor noon, Tuesday, Feb. 13. 
70.--it\. 
IIOa--t>-' 
FRONTS:
~-----....-... 

0 2001 Acouw..ther, lno. COLD WARM STATIONARY 

1/M~«JPrna 

Atlanta  58  52  Las Vegas  52  40  Portland  47  31  
Baltimore  52  42  Memphis  55  53  Sacramento  61  38  
Boston  40  30  Milwaukee  37  30  St. Louis  45  40  
Chicago  42  32  New York  47  37  Tampa  82  65  
Houston  n  68  Philadelphia  49  38  Wash DC  52  43  

"Women are halfthe human pool ofskills and talents. " 
Sandra Harding feminist and scientific theorist on the role of women In science 
and Reproductive Rights League. 
The group rallied against the rein­statement of the Mexico City Policy ­known to critics as the "global gag rule" -by the Bush administration. 
Holding signs and fitted with gags over their mouths. the group then marched in silence to the Federal Building on Wilshire Boulevard. In front of the building, the protesters set up camp and began a vocal demonstration against the policy. 
"It's not foreign policy to influence other countries· methods of family planning by cutting off funds,' said Angela Sveda, a fourth-year English student who coordinated the rally. 
But U.S. State Department spokesman Richard Boucher said the effect of the policy will not be as dras­tic as its critics portray it. 
"It's not Notre Dame's fault. It's just the way the calendar falls." 
O'Neil senator BIii Ferreira on the inability to reclaim a lost study day during the fall 2001 exams week 

Tuesday, February 13, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Raymond comments 
on South Bend schools 
By ALYSON TOMME News Wri1cr 
Alarmed by the condition of South Bend schools, the superin­tendent of the South Bend Community Schools Corporation outlined continuing and future dif­ficu I tics of public education Monday afternoon. 
Joan Haymond focused on issues of integration and curriculum of public school-; in her lecture enti­tled "The Status of American Public liducation." 
"Twenty years ago, the theory was that it was not a fair, equi­table education," Haymond said ri~garding the separation of races in school'>. "The issue today is not racial balance, it is instructional equity." 
Many students commute to oLher school,; that arc more academical­ly favorably than their local schools. 
"Today, there arc 13,000 stu­dents on buses, twice day," she said. "Children become disassoci­ated with their neighborhood school." 
Busing students to achieve a racial balance is not a new phe­nomenon, but Haymond pointed out that in today's society it pre­venls parents from attending teacher conferences and prohibits many children from participating in extracurricular activilitis. 
Instead of spending money to reach a racial balance, funding needs to aid basic academic skills. 
"This district has the worst test scores I've ever seen. If children were blindfolded, they couldn't get any lower," sh1i said. "The goal is lo get all schools un the same page." 
The Title I program, which pro­vides support for economically dis­advantaged children. is a prime example of what is wrong in South Bend, according to Raymond. 
"The concern is that it's different 
in all schools," said Haymond. She 
believes standardizing the curricu­
lum of the Corporation is the 
answer. 
Currently, teachers have com­plete freedom in deciding on their instructional approach and with the high mobility of students in South Ucnd. they are not guaran­teed to be on a level playing field with studcnL'> from another school. 
South Bend, then, is aiming to align with the Indiana academic standards and standardize across the Corporation. 
"Whatever we come up with, it will be better. Now. we have noth­ing," Raymond said. 
With the hype of Bush's recent education plan, Haymond pointed out inconsistencies she sees in the program. The Bush plan gives states more control over their edu­cation system, allowing them to make their own plans, yet it pro­vides for national accountability testing. 
"An administered test is no way to treat a child," Haymond said. "I worry about the dumbing down of the curriculum." 
Moreover, under Bush's plan, test scores would control l'unding. "The worst your scores. the more money you get for mediation. For the schools that don't do well, funding is suspended," Raymond said. "I think high stakes testing is loo limited." · 
Besides instructional equity and national education reform, Haymond discussed other prob­lems plaguing the nation's schools. 
"Discipline is a terrible prob­lem," she said. 
Every week, she receives letters and comments regarding the lack of discipline within schools. Numerous expulsions occur each year in South Bend schools, and with the Supreme Court's pennis­siveness in students' rights' cases and a general breakdown of respect for authority, the expulsion rate is not improving. South Bend presently is researching alterna­tive programs. such as a life choic­es night course and after school jobs with local businesses. 
Keeping an updated and devel­oped staff is another difficulty. Teachers often cannot keep up with the increase of technology. 
"Many teachers are lagging behind because they haven't received the appropriate training," Raymond said. 
In addition, the infrastructure of many school buildings nationwide is simply too old. Maintaining school sites and complying with construction codes are often huge hurdles for a district to overcome. 
Haymond said, "At the very least, what I can do is make sure the expenditures, staff and sup­plies are there. I can make sure the indicators of quality are equi­table." 
Does your business need an 
, 
,-.•'-;: ' :r.-, :', 
,"<:?.. ~-· ~::;• j 

'61>0!' 

in today's e-marketplace? 
Put your business on the web quick and easy with 
Steamtunnels.net ! 
Get noticed by millions of potential customers with web aduertising on Ste amt u n n e Is.net, today's most successful online college magazine. 
UNIVERSITY Of NOTRE DAME 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 

SMC students support Revue 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY 
Associate News Editor 
Hesponding to results of a survey gauging the opinion of the Saint Mary's student body regarding whether the Keenan H c v u e should be held on t h C College's campus, the Board 0 f Govern-a n c e v o t e d unanimously to make a state­ment acknowledging the sup­port of Saint Mary's students for keeping, the Revue on campus. 
The survey was included on the ballot for student govern­ment elections last Monday. Results of the survey indicat­ed of those who responded to the question, 67 percent said they had seen the Revue and did not want it moved from the Saint Mary's campus while 2 percent said they had seen the Revue and 

did not "If we're trying to build because 
want it held relationships between unlike on the N o t r e
Saint Mary's and Notre
College's D a m c
Dame and ifthat'swhat is 
campus. women The other getting people over here, who those students men see
then why get rid of
had not everyday 
seen the [the Revue]?" and know, Hevue. the stereo­Student types are
Callie Kuhen 
body presi­not true
programming commissioner
dent Crissie because 
Senior class president Autumn Palacz also support­ed keeping the Revue on campus in order to better the relationship between Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. 
"It makes us look bitchy and like we think we are bet­ter than them [Notre Dame students) if we vote the Revue off campus, especially since we have been trying to work to better the relation­ship between the two schools," said Palacz. 
Student representative to the Boar d of Trustees Molly Kahn agreed the Revue should not be voted o!T cam­pus in a "spirit of goodwill." 
"In an effort to maintain the spirit of goodwill, and to 
· continue to build on relation­ships and not burn bridges, we should not vote for the Keenan Revue to be held somewhere else," said Kahn. 
Student body vice president Michelle Nagle raised the issue of the challenges the Revue creates for Saint Mary's women, 
"[T]hese people don't know us as Saint Mary's women, but as the stereotypes por­trayed in the Revue, 
Henner sug­gested lhe Board take action on the issue rather than leaving it for the next administration. 
"This is an issue [student body vice president) Michelle [Nagle] and I wanted to address so this wouldn't have to be continually addressed by each new administration," said Renner. 
Reactions to the Revue from Board members who had attended varied. 
"I thought it was hilarious," said Callie Kuhcn, program­ming commissioner. "And there were tons of people over here. If we're trying to build relationships between Saint Mary's and Notre Dame and if that's what is getting people over here, then why get rid of [the Revue]?" 
they inter­
act with them, there isn't that oppor­tunity for Saint Mary's women," said Nagle. "But I don't know how to address that issue." 
Saint Mary's representative to the Notre Dame Senate Veronica Kessenich said the Board should endorse the Revue because that is what the majority of the student body favor, but under certain provisions. 
"Because it is 67 percent of those who responded want to keep the Revue on campus, then we should endorse the Keenan Revue but under cer­tain conditions," said Kessenich. "Those conditions should be that if we respect the men of Keenan than they should respect us and show us that they arc men and not boys, then we can let the Revue stay on campus." 

The statement agreed on by the Board and voted for unanimously reads, "We the 2000-2001 Board of Governance acknowledge student opinion in continuing the production of the Keenan Revue in O'Laughlin Auditorium. Additionally, we support he continuation of Student Government Association members sitting on the Keenan Revue Ccnsory Board." 
In Other BOG News: 
. Student Activities Board Coordinator Allison Webb provided an update regard­ing the planning of the new student center. 
"A lot of things that were talked about at the planning meeting were structural things," said Webb. "I was particularly impressed with what they called the 'Student Government Suite' which had offices and storage space for class boards." 
The project will be com­pleted in two phases. The first phase will involve reno­vation of the Dining I!all. The second phase will involve the completion of a large social space for dances, a TV lounge with data hookups and an off-campus kitchen area. The committee is still working on dates and fund­ing for the project. 
. 
Elections for class boards are approaching. Informational meetings will be held in the Chameleon Room in llaggar College Center on Feb. 14 and 15. Platforms will be due on Feb. 20 by 5 p.m. Campaigning begins Feb. 21 and ends on Feb. 25 with elections on Feb. 26. Meet the Candidates night will tentatively be held in Carroll Auditorium on Feb. 22. 

. 
The Student Diversity Board is sponsoring a forum in Haggar at noon on Friday as a way to open up discus­sion on campus. The title of the forum will be "What is diversity and how do we talk about it?" 

. 
An informational meeting for the 2001-2002 HOG will be held at 8 p.rn., Thursday in 303 Haggar. Applications will be available beginning Thursday and arc due March 2. 




page4 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, February 13, 2001 
Clinton 
continued from page I 
counsel Jack Quinn, has been criticized for using his connec­tions to secure a pardon. Rich's former wife, Denise, has also been cited as a friend of the Clinton family and Democratic party fund-raiser. 
Lipinski believes. however, that even this contro­of this person he will still have power within the party. 
"The thinking is that he will remain powerful within the party because nobody else has stepped in to fill the void that Gore left," said Ohmer. "He will probably be a very powerful force; he's going to stay in Washington and has the oppor­tunity to build a strong base of support." 
Lipinski also believes that 
Clinton will 
be "out cam­
paigning and
versy will not "[Clinton] will probably 
raising
alter the 
be a very powerful force." 
money for
public's per­
t h e
ception of 
Democrats
Clinton. He Susan Ohmer 
because it
said, "There government professor 
will keep him
are a good number of people who are disgusted with the whole Clinton administration and this fits right in line with that. There are also people on the opposite side who will ignore this stuff as part of a partisan smear campaign by Republicans." 
Despite Clinton's relatively high level of popularity, he can never run for office again and he will be forced to redirect the spotlight to his wife, New York Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton. Still, there has been much speculation on what he will do to try to retain political influence. 
With the election for the head of the Democratic National Committee approaching in the coming weeks, Lipinski feels that the person who is closest to Clinton will win and because 
Napster 
continued from page 1 
Napster from campus computers last year, students still find the Court's ruling upsetting. 
"The use of Napster and the Internet helps the growth of the music industry and CO sales," said freshman Erin Zachry. "If they choose to get rid of it, it might negatively affect record sales." 
"I think it is going to be rough for eveyone who was getting free music," said junior Marc Nuno. 
However, Nuno did find logic in the court's decision. "I guess I agree. It seemed pretty illegal." he said. 
The company says some 50 million people trade music in the popular MP3 format using Napster. 
Major record labels hope Monday's ruling will force people to pay what Napster allowed them to get for free. One of them, Bertelsmann's BMG music unit, has promised Napster capital to develop a subscriber-based ser­vice that would pay artist royal­ties. 
in the spot­
light, in a position where people look up to him, adore him." 
Many have pointed out that maintaining his public image is important to Clinton, Lipinski adds. He has spent almost his entire life running for public office, including the time in which he was in an elected position. Ohmer feels he will use this experience to advise other Democratic candidates on strategies and fundraising techniques and to help others make political connections. "Clinton can be a very powerful force in terms of making things happen within the Democratic party," Ohmer said. 
Thus, having reached the pinnacle of success and power, Clinton's biggest challenge now will be deciding what to do in his role as the spouse of a politician. 
Bertelsmann invited competi­tors in October to join it. but none have announced any inten­tion to do so and the German company's plans remained vague after Monday's decision. 
"This is neither the beginning nor the end of Napster. Now it's really important to move to the future with a membership-based service, " said Andreas Schmidt. head of Bertelsmann's eCommerce group. 
Schmidt said Bertelsmann was continuing to seek the support of other music companies in remaking Napster. He declined to comment on how those talks were going. 
Technologies so far developed to try to introduce for-pay online music distribution with encrypt­ed locks and keys have so far met with little success in face of the free music-swapping phe­nomenon. 
There are plenty of alterna­tives. Napster knockoffs and other file-swapping programs, some based overseas, operate beyond the reach of U.S. courts. 
Maureen Smithe contributed to this report. 
SMC students IDarch for shelter 
. Walk raises funds and awareness for Saint Margaret's 
By NICOLE CLERY 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's students showed their support for Saint Margaret's House (SMH) Sunday afternoon as they par­ticipated,in the annual SMH Walk. 
Saint Margaret's House is a day center for area homeless women or low-income victims of domestic abuse and their 
Election 
continued from page I 
receiving 20 percent of the vote. Because neither Smith or Andre has been involved with student government before, Smith said the large number of students who sup­ported their platform was refreshing. 
"This gives me faith in the integrity of Notre Dame stu­dents," Smith said. 
'Tm so thrilled about the results. I'm proud of the stu­dent body, they rocked the vote. We were running on issues and we're so thrilled that the students were as excited as we were." 
Smith said they both would work with either administra­tion so their platform goals could be accomplished. 
The ticket of Chris 
Zimmerman and Andy 
Nelson, which received 3 per­
cent of the vote, said they 

children. SMH provides food and clothing for these women as well as toiletry items, laundry facilities and showers. 
Saint Mary's senior and cam­pus event coordinator, Julia Malczynski has been working with SMH for almost a year now and said that she was very pleased with the turnout. 
"It's always good to have pro­fessors supporting [the] stu­dents' efforts." Malczynski added that she was able to make a donation of $1,135 to SMH this year because of the great support she's found at Saint Mary's. 
All four class boards, as well as the Board or Governance, Student Academic Council, Student Diversity Board, Psi Chi and Feminist Collective made donations to the SMII Walk fund. 
Malczynski said that the walk is simply to raise awareness and funds for the organization. Last year the walk raised $17,000 and this year Malczynski said that they hope to raise $25,000 this year. 
If you are interested in help­ing Saint Margaret's House, they can be reached at 234­7795. Clothing donations are welcome but toiletry items are especially appreciated. 

were disappointed with tho said. "The Tribe has spoken." results, but hope their mes­Of the two remaining tick­sage of streamlining student ets, Holt Zeidler and Alison government will be heard by Henisey received 9 percent of Norton/Masconoa and the vote, capturing a majority Becker/McCord. of the votes in Keough Hall. 
"The student body presi­where Zeidler is hall presi­dent and vice president dent. Maureen Gottlieb and should have contact with the Victoria Fetterman received 1 students percent of daily," Nelson the vote. 
said. "Brooke "This gives me faith in The run­
and Brian the integrity ofNotre off elec­have been too tion will
Dame students.,, 
busy running be held and too busy Thursday. in their jobs Demetra Smith Student to talk to the can vote in
presidential candidate 
students, and their resi­we think d e n c e that's the halls or most important." off-campus students can vote 
Zimmerman said he was outside the DeBartolo com­happy to win a majority of puter lab from 9 to 11 a.m. the votes in his dorm Fisher, and 1 to 4 p.m. and he intends to run for a A run-off debate between student government office Becker/McCord and again. Norton/Mascona will be 
"This was a test run ... I Tuesday night in the Library 
look forward to the run-off Auditorium at 7:30 p.m. The because it's between two candidates will be allowed to good tickets," Zimmerman question each other. 
Do YOU LIKE SPORTS? KIDS? DO YOU WANT TO GET PAID 
AND 
EARN 3 CREDITS? 


National Youth Sports Program Sponsored by the NCAA 
A program of athletics and enrichment for econo:rnically disadvantaged children Crom the South Bend area. 
Training dates: June 18 -22 Program dates: June 25 -July 27 
• 
Housing provided on campus 

• 
Three meals per day 


• 
Salary of approximately $1 :,200 

• 
Three elective credits 



Applications available at the Center for Social Concerns Application deadline: February 19 For additional information, call 631-6614_ 


ATION 
Tuesday, February 13, 200l COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Hussein: America has failed: 
l'r,isident Saddam llussein said Monday that Llui United Slates has failed in its confrontation with Iraq because it has not found allies inside tlrn country Lo overthrow his government. Saddam said that since the Persian Gulf War that drove Iraqi troops from Kuwait in 1991. the United States has not been able to find support from within Iraq to topple him. 
Khatami attacks opponents: Iran's president made one of his strongest attacks against hard-liners opposnd to his reform pro­gram, warning Monday of a S()Cial explosion if ''misuse of power" continues and alienates the pnople. Presidnnt M()hammad Khatami has bcnn engaged in a power struggle with con­servatives who have used the judiciary and the militury lo curb his plans lo ease restrictions. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Virginia prisoner freed by DNA: Earl Washington Jr. walked out of prison Monday aller sptmding 9 1/2 years on death row for a murder he didn't commit. Largely illiterate and with an IQ of 69, Washington confessed to the l lJ82 rape and slaying of Hebecca Lynn Williams even though no fingerprints or biologi­cal evidence Lied him to the crime. However, DNA tests showed he was wrongly convicted. 
Florida removes Confederate flag: 
The Confederate flag that has 11own at the Florida Capitol since 1978 has been removed. The nag was retired quietly Feb. 2, in contrast to the uproar in other states over the Confederate nag, which some say symbolizes Southern heritage but others contend repre­sents slavery. "The governor believes that most Floridians would agree that the symbols of Florida's past should not be displayed in a man­ner that may divide Floridians today," Gov. Jeb Hush's spokeswoman Katie Baur said. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
More Hoosiers going on to college: 
Indiana's national ranking in the percentage of 
high school graduates who attend college has jumped from 40th among states in 1986 Lo 17th in 1998. According to August 2000 Dgures pub­lished in Postsecondary Education, 37 percent of Indiana seniors in 1986 attended college the following year. This figure rose to 61 percent of seniors in 1998. "This is a radical change that required a lot of e!Tort by many people over a long period of time," said Nick Vesper, director of policy and research at the State Student Assistance Commission of Indiana. 
Market Watch 211 2 

Dow 
10,946.77 +165.32
]ONES 
at 
Composite
Same: 
• 

Volume:
1~2 197 
NIA 
AMFJC: 937.70 +6..47­Nasdaq: 2489.66 +18.69 
'''NYSE:""""""·'' 660J1~'··,,~,••W;7;11· 
S&P 500: 1330.31 +15.55 TOPS VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURJlY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +4.87 +1.37 29.% ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -2.39 -0.'.)6 23.00 BROCADE COMM SY (BRCD) -15.01 •ll.13 63.00 NASDAQ IUO SHAR (QQQ) +l.ll +0.68 )?.OH EMULEX CORP (EMl.J<) -47.90 -37.12 40.38 
Bush promises to boost morale 
Associated Press 
FORT STEWAHT 
President Bush was 

reassuring U.S. troops 
Monday that he intends to 
lift military morale, carry­
ing to the field a promise 
of $5. 7 billion in new 
spending to improve qual­
ity of life in the armed 
services. 
Bush. touring this big 

Army base, was announc­
ing $1.4 billion for pay 
increases, $3.9 billion to 
improve military health 
benefits and $400 million 
to upgrade housing, the 
White llouse said. 
After his first flight as 

president aboard the 
Americans identify as Air 
Force One, tho new com­
mander in chief was tour­
ing this installation out­
side Savannah. 
Accompanying him was a delegation of top admin­istration officials and law­makers, including Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, national securi-· ty adviser Condoleezza Hice, five senators and six House members. 
Among the senators was Zell Miller of Georgia, the first Democrat to back Bush's attorney general nominee, John Ashcroft, and who signed on as an original co-sponsor of Bush's tax cut plan. 
Bush was reviewing the Army base's barracks and troops -his first such meeting with members of the military since he took office Jan. 20. 
He repeated during his election campaign his AFP Photo contention that morale in President Bush reviews troops during his visit to Fort Stewart. Bush pledged the armed services is on additional funding for salaries and housing upgrades. 
the decline, and he 
best equipment, and long­administration will rely has to be the first focus." 
promised to address the 
overdue improvements in on that examination as it Humsfeld also toldfactors he said caused it: their pay, housing and sets defense spending pri­ABC's "This Week" that
equipment shortages, 
standard of living," Bush orities. he remains convinced apoor housing and pay and said in his weekly radio "I think the focus has to defense budget increase
unfocused. "overextend­
address Saturday. be on quality of life for is necessary.
ed" missions. 
Bush dispatched the people," Rumsfeld Monday's visit toBush, devoting his 
Rumsfeld to the Sunday said on "Fox News Georgia was the first offourth week in office to television news shows to Sunday." "Without the three trips Bush is mak­national security, began 
spread the message in men and women that ing this week to military
with a pledge to improve advance of Monday's trip. we're able to attract and bases, and the kickoff forconditions for those who Rumsfeld is conducting a retain to man the forces, a series of events empha­serve. 
"force structure review" then we really don't have sizing his role as a world
"They deserve the best 

of the Pentagon, and the a national defense, so that leader.
training, the latest and 

ZAMBIA 
Dispute over venue halts meeting 
Rwanda and Uganda are backing 6,000 Congolese troops and allied 
Associated Prcss 
rebels in their 2 1/2-year war against Rwandan Hutu militiamen back into 
LUSAKA the Congolese government. Congo after they retreated into 
A summit on Congo's 30-month Zimbabwe, Angola and Namibia Zambia to escape a rebel offensive in war has been postponed, a top have sent troops to fight alongside November. 
Zambian official said Monday, after Congolese governmentforces. Rwandan representatives did not Rwanda refused to attend and The time and place of the meeting attend a meeting in Lusaka Monday accused Zambia's president of bias. remained in dispute. Chiluba, who of regional defense and foreign min­
The summit had originally been had been mediating ongoing talks, isters to discuss the war. scheduled for Tuesday in Lusaka. opposed a change of venue, the Chiluba had called Tuesday's sum­
However, an aide to Rwandan Zambian official said on condition of mit to revive the stalled peace President Paul Kagame said Monday anonymity. process in the wake of the assassina­that Kagame would not attend a Neighboring Malawi and Tanzania tion last month of Congolese summit In Zambia because he have been suggested as alternative President Laurent Kabila. 
believes Zambian President venues. Many hoped his son and successor, Frederick Chiluba is no longer an Rwanda accused Chiluba of com­Joseph, will help put a 1999 peace impartial mediator on the conflict. promising himself by allowing some deal back on track. 
--· -------. 
page 6 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, February 13, 2001 

tt\  G~ILLE-t> ZUCCHINI • CO FrEE.  •  

 - 
• • •  L'Arche, after Noah's Ark, is a worldwide network of 110 communities in 30 countries, made up of people with disabilities and those who come to share life with them. Its mission is to create homes where faithful relationships based on forgiveness and celebration are nourished; to revel the unique value and vocation of each person; and to change society by choosing to live in community as a sign of love and hope. TueidaY~ t=ebruan1 27~ 2001 t3:00Pm iacr-ed tiear-t Var-ish Center­on uouala~ voad At ~otr-e uame~ Indiana Lou ~anni t-1onor-an1 Chair-man  --I J: .:I {Tl )> -f • r )> CJ) > (i) z )> ~ --I :c -­z )> () X •  
-•  SJli.00 per-per-~on or-Table of S: S2SO.OO f3our-met Italian [)Inner-b~ Ciao Vlease r-eserve your-Place. Call Chr-is MIiier-at f331-7Ctf)S •_____..CHICKE.N CAlZIAT012..E • D 46S ERTS  z fll ..,.....,  

Tuesday, February 13, 2001 The Observer . NEWS page 7 
Specter hints at Clinton impeachment 
Auociated I'=• 
WASHINGTON Former President Clinton, who survived a Senate trial on 
whether to remove him, could technically face new impeach­
mcnl charges  .  
over his last- 
minute Par­ 
don of fugi­tivc financier  
Marc Rich. a  
s e n i rOIle publican on the Senate  
Judiciary  
Committee  Clinton  
says.  
Sen.  Arlen  Specter  of  

Pennsylvania, interviewed on "Fox News Sunday," said legal re.search led him to believe a for­mer president "technically could still be impeached." He did not suggest what the specific charges mighl be. 
Clinton spokeswoman Julia Payne shot back: "Give me a break. What's clear here, by the continued piling-on of the 
Republicans on President Clinton, is that what they'd like to impeach is the eight groat years of progress and prosperity the 
American people enjoyed under him." Legal scholars were divided on 
t·t t· II

whether the Cons I u 10n a ows Congress to pursue an impeach­ment case -either over a presi­dent's use of his pardon power or 
·nst h" f t' h h
agru a c 1e execu 1ve w o as 
left office. Tho Senate's second-ranking Republican leader, Don Nickles of Oklahoma, opposed a new impeachment case. But he did 
raise the possibility of using other United States in 1983 on charges methods to reduce the former he evaded more than $48 million president's pension, office rent in taxes, fraud and participating allowance and other administra-in illegal oil deals with Iran. tive expenses. Republicans have noted that 
Under questioning, Specter Rich's former wife, Denise, was a said, "I'm not suggesting that it major contributor to the should be done, but President Democratic Party and to Hillary Clinton technically could still be Rodham Clinton's Senate cam­
)·mpeached" II dd d "I d 't
• · e a e . on paign. Denise Rich also reportedly think Lhat trial would take too donated some $450,000 to the 
long."  former presi- 
Specter said Clinton "avoid­ed a conviction  'Tm not suggesting that it should be done. but  dent's library foundation. Democrats  
on impeach­ment the last  president Clinton  have not d e fen d e d  
time around because he had  technically could be impeached . .,  Clinton's par­don decision.  
not  lost  the  "I  think  
confidence of  either  the  
the American  Arlen Specter  president had  
people, and we  R-Penn.  an incredible  

didn't want to 
shake up the government, but he's not in office anymore." 
In impeachment proceedings, the House brings charges and the Senate tries the case. Specter said "someone" in the House could 
soon talk about possible articles of impeachment. "No, I don't have anybody in mind," he added. 
Clinton was impeached by the House in December 1998 on alle­gations of perjury and obstruction of justice involving testimonyab th" t.T • ·th Wh" H
ou IS a11a1r WI 1te ouse intern Monica Lewinsky. In February 1999, the Senate voted to acquit Clinton, with Specter 
· hi al r m 
opposmg s remov rom o ice. 
Rich was among 140 Americans pardoned by Clinton two hours before he left office on Jan. 20. He 
has lived in Switzerland since just before he was indicted in the 
lapse in mem­ory or was brain-dead when he did that one," Sen. Joseph Biden of Delaware, rank­ing Democrat on the Judiciary 
Committee, told Fox. 
Clinton has insisted that Rich deserved the pardon on the mer­its. 
Specter suggested the former president could be stripped of "the emoluments of office, such as the substantial sums being spent on the library, such as the body­
guards, such as his pension." At a Judiciary Committee hear­ing Wednesday, Specter plans to seek support for a constitutional amendment that would give
Congress the power to overturn a presidential pardon by a two-thirds vote. The president's power 
to pardon is absolute under the Constitution. 

Hungary's gypsy radio hits the air 
Associated Press 

BUDAPEST A new sound joined the 
llungar1·an · s d

airwaves un ay with the launch of Radio C, a station run by and direct­
ed at the city's large Gypsy population. 
At the stroke of midnight, the haunting sound of the Gypsy hymn went out on the 
air, followed by Gypsy poet Jozsef Daroczi Choli telling listeners in both Hungarian and Romany they were tuned to radio Cat 88.8 on their FM dial. 
The station. on the air for a trial period but in the run• ning for a permanent fre­quency, represents the sec­ond place in Europe for Gypsies, or Roma, to have their own full-time radio broadcasts. Several such 
stations already operate in Macedonia. Broadcasting currently is 
limited to the 30-day license granted by the National Radio and Television Supervisory Body. Radio C 
th C f · h

-e or copyr1g t, emphasizing the originality of having a Roma station ­is competing with two 
Ch · t· 1· t · 

ns 1an evange 1s stations for a frequency and a seven-year license. Hungary has more than half a million Roma, most of them marginalized and 
wide as Gypsies, the United Nations, other international organizations and the eth­nic group themselves preferthe name Roma, wh1'ch 
means "the people" in the Romany language they speak. 
Although they are Hungary's largest ethnic minority, state-run radio and television currently run only a 30-minute weekly magazine program on issues affecting them. 
"We are going to have news, music, talk-back pro­grams, interviews, but our focus will be the Roma. If there are new developments in any social welfare area, that will be our leading 
item, not some national news," said assistant editor Maria Bogdan, 25, a Homa from the southern town of 
Pees. 
Bogdan sees Radio C as fulfilling a vital education function. She also says it's a station with a mission. 
"So many of my friends have loft the country, most­
ly for Canada, to start a new life," she said. "We think the Roma should stay and feel they have a chance 
to have a decent life here." In addition to social issues like housing. jobs, and social policy, Radio C will open discussion of racism and other topics relevant to 

,----------------------------------------~p::.:o=-:o:.:.r~._=T_:_:h:_:ough kn_o_w_n_w_o_rl_d_-__th_e_R_o_m_a_p_o_p_u_Ja_t_io_n_.___ 
VC>UR LAST HOURS... 
VC>UR LAST CHANCE.-­
VC>UR. CANDIDATES• LAST PUBLIC SPEACH 

i--~p~ag~e=8====·-=··===-···=-=======================Th=e=O=h=se=rv=er=.=PA=ID=A=D=i\'E=R=T=IS=E=M==E=N==T===================}i=u=e=sd=ay=,=F=eb=ru=a=ry=l=3=,2TO==Ol 
I 
I 

Going up. 

As you begin your ascent to the top, remember, it's what you learn along the way that counts. At Ernst & Young, you can have endless learning opportunities working with leading companies in 
FORTUNF leading industries. So when you get to your destination, you'll belong there. Ride with us. 100 BEST COMPANIES§
TOWORKFORN 
ey.com/us/careers 

El/ fRNST & YOUNG 
FROM THOUGHT TO FINISH.™ 
Tuesday, February 13, 2001 The. Observe; . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
=======-=-=--================================================================================= 
Gene map may create discrimination in health care 
,. 

• Employees voice fears about genetic testing in workplace 
A..ociated Pre•• 
WASHINGTON 

Mapping the human genome opens a new era for medical science -and a new frontier for potential discrimination. 
New genetic research may make il possible to identify an individual's lifetime risk of cancer, heart attack and other diseases. Experts w~rry that this information could be used to discriminate in hiring, pro­motions or insurance. 
Employers and insurers could save millions of dollars if thuy could use predictive genetics to identify in advance. and then reject, workers or policy applicants who are predisposed to devel­op chronic disease. 
Thus. genetic discrimination could join the list of other forms of discrimination: racial, ethnic, age and sexual. 
Genetic discrimination is drawing attention this week because of the first publication of the complete human g,inomc map and sequence. Two versions, virtually. identi­cal, were compiled separately 
by an international public con­sortium and by a private com­pany. 
The journal Nature is pub­lishing the work of the public consortium and the journal Science is publishing the sequence by Celera Genomics. a Hockville, Md., company. 
Fear of such discrimination already is affecting how peo­ple view the medical revolu­tion promised by mapping the human genome. A Time/CNN poll last summer found that 7 5 percent of 1,218 Americans surveyed did not want insur­ance companies to know their genetic code, and 84 percent wanted that information with• held from the government. 
"There has been widespread fear that an individual's genet­ic information will be used against them," said Sen. Bill Frist, R-Tenn. "If we truly wish to improve quality of health care, we must begin taking steps to eliminate patients' fears." 
The Equal Employment 
Opportunity Commission filed 
its first lawsuit challenging 
genetic testing last week in 
U.S. District Court in the Northern District of Iowa. 
Burlington Northern Santa Fe Railroad was charged in the suit with conducting 
genetic testing on employees new federal law that specifi­without their permission. At cally prohibits it. least one worker was threat­"Genetic testing has enor­ened with dismissal unless he mous potential for improving agreed to the test, the agency health care in America, but to charges. fully utilize this new science, 
The EEOC said the genetic we must eliminate tests were being run on patients'fears and the poten­employees who filed for work• tial for insurance discrimina­ers compensation as the result tion,'' said Frist, R-Tenn., the or carpal tunnel syndrome, a only physician in the Senate. type of repeti-Frist and tive motion S e n injury com­"Genetic testing has an Olympia mon to key­Snowe, R­
enormous potential for 
board opera­Maine, arc
improving health care in
tors. Some introducing studies have America, but to fully legislation suggested that utilize this new science, that would 
a mutation on prevent
we must eliminate
chromosome insurance 17 predispos­patients' fears and the companies es to the from requir­
potential for insurance 
injury. ing genetic
discrimination. " 
A survey of testing and 2,133 employ­ban the use ers this year Bill Frist of genetic by the information
ft-Tenn. 
American to deny cov-
Management erage or to Association set rates. found that seven are using A similar bill. the Genetic genetic testing for either job Information Nondiscrimination applicants or employees, in Health Insurance Act: according to the journal passed the Senate in 2000 as Science. part of an appropriations bill, 
Many experts believe the but the provision later was only solution to potential removed. genetic discrimination is a Writing this week in the 

journal Science, Sens. James 
M. Jeffords, H-Vt., and Tom Daschle, D-S.D., say they both favor legislation prohibiting genetic discrimination. 
"Without adequate safe­guards, the genetic revolution could mean one step forward for science and two steps backward for civil rights." they write. "Misuse of genetic information could create a new underclass: the genetical­ly less fortunate." 
.Jeffords supports the Frist­Snowe bill, which limits the anti-discrimination issuos to insurance. 
Daschle, however, favors a broader measure that would include genetic discrimination in employment and else·whcre. 
The Senate Democratic 
leader said in Science that he 
favors laws that would con­
form to the Universal 
Declaration of tho Human 
Genome and Human Hights. 
That declaration. by the U.N. Education, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) states: "No one shall be subjected to discrimi­nation based on genetic char­acteristics that is intended to infringe or has the effect of infringing human rights, fun­damental freedoms and human dignity." 
Thursday, February 15 9pm -midnight Lafortune Ballroom Absolutely Free 
THE BEST OF 
ACOUSTIC CAFE 
Featuring: 
Phil Wittliff Geoff Rahie Luke Mueller Vince o•conner Dave Hunt Nick Faleris 
aSophomore Literary Festival event 
VIEWPOINT 

Ar.HE 

page 10 VBSERVER Tuesday, February 13, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
Treat your valentine to a Big Mac 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

024 Soui.h Dining Hall. Notte Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Noreen Gillespie Tirn Lane 

Nt.ws EDITOR: Anne Marie Matringly VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smith SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: Elizabeth Lang 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springe, AD DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville WEB ADMINll>'TRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Bob Woods GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGF.R!GENERAL lNF0...•......•...631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING......•..............................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF •..•....•...•.••..•...•......•.........• 631--4542 MANAGING F.orroRlAssT. ME....................631-454 I BUSINESS OFFICE.•..•..•......•.•••..•.•.••..••...•.....631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer .obsnews. l@nd.edu VJEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinr.l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAJNT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0 .......................................................631-8767 SYSTIMS!WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, spores, fearures and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURf TO: 
weather for up-co-the 
movies/music for 

minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online fuatures for spe­
and rares ofprint ads 
cial campus ooverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
anides published after 
to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by rhe students of the UniversiryofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial oontent, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves rhe right ro refuse advertisements based on oonrent. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commenraries, letters and columns present rhe views of the authors and not necessarily rhose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available co all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Lerrers ro the Ediror muse be signed and must include contact information. 
Que,tiom regarding Observer policies shoultl be direct· td to Editcr in ChiefMilu Connolly. 
CHARLOTTESVILLE. Va. 

I can make your life better. Here are some of my ideas for making your Valentine's Day extremely special. You can thank me later, after my suggestions substantially improve your love life. 
Don't go to class­es. Come on, peo-Jeffrey 
ple, this day is of Eisenberg colossal signifi­cance. You can't let little things, such as 
Cavalier

your education, get 
Daily

in the way of cele­brating this holiday. This may upset your professors and TAs because they are probably bitter about Valentine's Day. So escaping your obligations will require a bit offinesse. I recommend sending the following letter, which assuredly will earn you sympathy: 
"Dear (Insert TA's name): 
I have somewhere more important to be than your class this Wednesday. Please don't take offense. I'm sure ifyou were in a committed relationship or were planning to spend Valentine's Day with a special someone. other than your cat,. you would be skipping your own class. Well, not everyone can be as cool as I am. I wish you the very best. I'll see you next week, and I'll be shedding tears of pity for you since you have to go to class tomorrow. 
Sincerely. 
Onsert Your Name)" 
This approach weaves a balance of 
direct explanation with an ounce or two of empathy for the pathetic plight that your TA or professor surely will be deal­ing with on Tuesday. Last year, this approach worked like a charm. My TAs liked my letter so much that, later in the semester, they called on me to answer questions, even when my hand was not raised. Some of them even felt comfort­able enough to joke around with me by calling me a "jerk." It's a good thing we 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
connected on such a personal level, because they seemed able to handle it when I hurled some funny names -such as tool. imp and the like -back at them. 
The bottom line is. don't let your edu­cation get in the way of having a good Valentine's Day. 
What to give. There's nothing more romantic to give that spe­cial someone than a big wad of cash. Okay. I'll stop harp­ing on this point. If you actu­ally are considering gifts, here are some ideas. 
I recommend an organic chemistry textbook for that really important person. It is great for a sleepless night because it will change that fact in an instant. It also subtly sug­gests to your guy/girl that he/she should go to medical school and make a lot of money for you. But most of all, it will make your partner think of the organic chemistry between the two of you. What a special thought. Don't be discouraged if, in giving this gift. you arc met with a big slap across the face. It's just a playful sign of affection in appreci­ation of how thoughtful your gift is. 
Maybe a text on organic chemistry isn't up your alley. Perhaps you have a more hands-on approach. That's okay too. You could give your boyfriend/girl­friend a nice potted plant. It's much more economical than an organic chem­istry textbook, but it will do the same work. If you get the potted plant hurled. at your face, it is probably because your partner is eager to get it planted in the ground right away. Ifthis happens, it is urgent that you find. a pitcher of water to hurl back, because it is amazing how many people rush get their plants in the ground, but forget to water them. And a dead plant is the same thing as a dead gift, which does not bode well for your relationship. 

Try to avoid such traditional gifts as jewelry and cards and hearts and choco­lates because they arc so unoriginal and probably will be met with a bad-natured 
slap across the face. It also probably will spell the end of your rela­
tionship. Where to go. Nothing says class like McDonald's. Buy 
your guy/gal.a Big Mac, 
share some fries, and the whole event can be topped off with a 
romantic kiss over the Honald McDonald placemat. If you've seen the commercial, you 'II know that true love 
begins at the McDonald's drive-thru. But Valentine's is a special day -a day you take off school for -so go inside and soak up the atmosphere. 

McDonald's might be too upscale for you. This is understandable; we're. all on limited budgets. Nobody is saying that you can't make a special meal out of dumpster remains. If your partner really cares about you, he/she'll understand that it's the thought that counts. Just be sure you don't choose a dumpster next to a McDonald's because you might end up ruining some other person's special date, and that's just not right. 
This Valentine's Day can be a special one. Follow my step-by-step advice and soon your Valentine's Day date will be yours for life. There's no need to thank me. I already feel your gratitude. 
This column first appeared in the University ofVirginia's newspaper, Cavalier Daily. on Feb. 12. 2001, and is being reprinted here courtesy of U-WJRE. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
Misrepresenting Molly 
We are writing in response to yesterday's article featuring three Notre Dame Clubs. specifically the section covering Molly's Chili. Although this article was humorous in a fanciful sort of way, its falsehood struck us as unacceptable. 
First and foremost, Club founders and President Molly McShane never refused any type of interview with The Observer staff. On the contrary. she wishes to spread the joy that is Molly's Club as far as it can possibly reach. 
Secondly, the Club numbers have never been estimated any­where near 40 people. The true number is right around 140 official members. One could hope that when faced with such a substantial number of interviewees, a writer would use them as the valid sources. Unfortunately. only one of us was contacted by The Observer to comment on the Chili, and her interview was twisted to meet the comedic goals of Mr. Beggs. 
It is disappointing to see the integrity of Molly's club trampled on with so little justification. There is so much more to Molly's Club that should be pointed out. For example, the Club has members from all over -on-campus and off. There are alumni representatives in the class of 2000, a Canadian ambassador and chapters being started at Boston College, University of Miami-Ohio, University of St. Thomas in Minnesota and even across the ocean thanks to members recently traveling abroad. 
Each member of Molly's Club is encouraged to take an office, and we have among us a Club security guard, an on­campus recruiter and even a Club liaison to the Church of Jehovah's Witnesses. No one in Molly's Club is asked to do anything against their will, so everyone is responsible for choosing his or her own office. It's all just a part of the of the Club. 
We at Molly's Club have received a lot of slack for our con­troversial ways, but none so disturbing as the article written in The Observer yesterday. Please use the information provid­ed to you in this letter to reform your opinions concerning Molly's Club and consider joining us in our mission to bring the University and the world together in love. All it takes is an e-mail, sent to mmcshane@nd.edu. 
Together in Ridonkulousness. 
Katherine Walsh 
sophomore, Club hisrorian 
John Area IV 
senior, Club horse trainer hbruary 12, 200 I 


SCOTT ADAMS 

DILBERT QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'Tm not a beatnik. I'm a Catholic." 
Jack Kerouac author 

--~---­

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

Tuesday, February 13, 2001 BSERVER page 11 
Bengal Bouts create 'blessed closeness' 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
South Bend seeks quality of life through censorship 
"This was the only thing that made law school worlhwhile." A law student, now a successful attorney, told me that some years ago after he had won a Bengal Bouts championship in his third year of law school. lie was kidding about law school -I think. But people do react that way when they participate in the Bengal Bouts. Let me try to explain why they do and why the Notre Dame community should support the Bouts. 
Knute llockne began an informal boxing program at Notre Dame in the lo.tu 1920s. Dominic (Nappy) Napolitano. the legendary director of non-varsity athletics, carried it forward tu begin the Bengal Bouts in 1931. Every year, all proceeds go to support the lloly Cross missions in Bangladesh, where 48 Holy Cross priests, 57 sisters and 46 brothers labor to bring physical as well as spiritual aid to some of the poorost people on earth. 
"One dollar of American money over there," notes Father Bill Seetch, Boxing Club chaplain, "can feed. shelter and clothe a family of five for a day. The equivalent of two cans or soda pop can do LhaL half of a world away." 
In 11 letter to Notre Dame students, Archbishop Lawrence Graner, of Dacca, East Bengal, wrote, "I wonder how many know just what the purpose of the Bouts is land] what this program means to a small, but solid group on the other side of the world, who are carrying on the tradition of Notre Dame in its truest form." 
In 2000, the Bouts raised the record sum of $71,000 for the Bengal mis­sions. With continued support from students, we can equal or surpass that total this year. 

The Boxing Club, of which I am privi­leged to be faculty advisor, will conduct the Bouts in the JACC this year on Feb. 
22. 26 and 28, with the finals on March 
2. You can support this cause by buying tickets, taking ads and encouraging oth­ers to attend. 
The Boxing Club provides a unique experience to the participants. "At Notre Dame," said assistant coach Pat Farrell. who is also the University of Notre Dame pilot and a former Bengal Bouts champ, "box­ing is ... an extension of the classroom. The vast majority of our boxers have never before been in the ring. They learned about themselves. They learned to deal with adversity under pressure. You are on your own in the ring. No substitutions, no time outs. Above all. no excuses. No ratio­nalizing that some­one else's missed block or tackle may have altered the out­come." 
The Club is run by the student captains: Brian Hobbins, Josh Thompson, Pete Ryan, Dennis Abdelnour, Rob Joyce, Mark Criniti and Matt Fumigalli. They run the practices, make the pairings and bring the younger boxers along effectively. 
Incidentally, visitors are welcome at 
the practices in the JACC. Throughout 
the program, safety is the primary con­
cern. If you like the XFL -the Xtreme 
Football League -which signals our 
athletic culture's descent to a new level of violence and voyeurism, you won't like the Bengal Bouts. The practices and the bouts are tightly monitored by medical person­nel under the supervision of Dr. James Moriarity. University chief of medicine. 
71 Entering our eighth decade, we have never had a serious injury. We pray and work 
1 that it will remain so. 
The Bengal Bouts' proceeds began their climb from the $10,000 range when Emily Schmidt.'99, took over the business end, including promotion, in 1996. Meghan Kelley, '02. who worked with Emily. now runs the show and has taken it to even greater heights. She is ably assist­ed by Ellen Quinn, '01, Dave 
Peloquin, '03 and Laura Anderson, '03. 
They are an impressive team. The Bouts are under the supervision of Rich O'Leary, director of Club Sports. Rich wo_rks through an excep­

tional group of volunteers. Columbus, Ohio, developer Tom Suddes and Chicago lawyer Terry Johnson. who are Bengal champs from 1971 and 1974, are the head coaches. In addition to coach Farrell, the assistant coaches include former Bengal champs Chip Farrell, '98, Ryan Rans, '98 and John Christoforetti, '97. 
We have a living link to Hockne and Nappy in 87-year-old Jack Mooney. Jack delivered papers to Rockne, who used to sneak him into football games. Every day at practice, Jack actively coaches the boxers; his primary con­cern is their safety and personal devel­opment during and after the program. Jack's assistant is former professional boxer Jack Zimmerman. who is also a poet of note. Coach Farrell works the corners at the Bouts. along with Judge Roland Chamblee, '73, of the Superior Court in South Bend who is a four-time Bengals champ and Sweet C. Robinson, a former police officer and professional kick-boxing champion. We also have an ecclesiastical bell-ringer in Monsignor John Hagerty, a Notre Dame man who takes his vacation from his duties as pastor of Notre Dame Church in Hermitage, Pa., to work on the Bouts. 
So why should the Notre Dame com­munity support the Bouts? Let Archbishop Graner answer. "I wish I could conduct you and the whole stu­dent body on a complete tour of the Bengal missions," he said. "l believe your enthusiasm for the Bouts and for the Bengal missionaries of Holy Cross would know a blessed closeness and intensity never before felt." 
We look forward to seeing you at the Bouts. 
Prof Rice is on the Law School f acui­ty. His column appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
Ijust want to acknowledge how lucky those of us liv­ing in the South Bend, area truly are. How many com­munities can say that their elected, county prosecutor and staff work overtime to impose their morals upon the community. 
Deputy Prosecutor Tony Zirkle presented a four-day case to a grand jury. "dealing with very explicit sexual conduct ... " according to Marti Heline of the South Bend Tribune. We should be thankful that Zirkle made time to fix.ate upon four local adult bookstores. He accuses the owners of selling materials of an obscene and perverse nature. Specifically, it is materials, "per­taining to group sex, anal sex, clearly viewed penetra­tion and other such graphic activities." 
This being the 21st century, who has time to make choices concerning what they believe to be obscene or perverse. Healistically, how many times have we all been innocently driving down the street, past one of those vividly advertised adult places and made sick by by what is possibly lurking behind the closed doors? llow wonderful is it to have a great big brother. such as the county prosecutor's office, censoring material for us? Moreover, we save a lot of time by not having to think for ourselves. Is the Internet and personal mail delivery going to be the next target? Is Zirkle going to ask a grand jury to evaluate those for us also? Where do we draw the line on censorship? 
Zirkle claims he is not going forward with his case because he wants to impose his morals. He states, "I want this to be a quality place to live. What might be ok in San francisco may not be here." Maybe once Zirkle makes this area a better place to Jive the city largest percentage of college graduates in the country, population will not drop to its lowest levels since the you would think they could come to this obvious con­1920s as it has done in the late '90s. clusions on their own. This could be the reason why 16 
ln making this area a better quality place, maybe million people travel to San Francisco annually to tell Zirkle should focus on real issues. the locals how horrid their city really is. 
Such as the local ISTEP scores 
that have been continuously 
dropping for the past sev­
eral years. A few years 
ago, the city helped 
one of the accused 
business owners 
move his store to 
a new location. 
During a period 
of inevitable eco­
nomic downturn. 
Zirkle is looking 
to close business­
es. What business is next on Zirkle's list? Besides, San Francisco cannot be that 
great. The demand for hous­
ing in San Francisco outweighs 
the available supply to such an extent that housing prices are roughly twice that of South Bend prices. If San Francisco cannot even pro­Richard Riddle vide enough reasonably priced housing for all the peo­junior ple wanting to live there, how great can such a place off-campus be? Since San Francisco's population consists of the February 12, 2001 
The $5 billion the tourists bring with them is probably used to inform people of the truth about San 
Francisco. That is of course minus the $143 million spent on hotel taxes. 
Again, I want to express thanks to those elected officials work­
ing so diligently to make South Bend such a grand place to live 
and nothing like San Francisco. These officials with 

authority and ability to make changes in the South Bend area should implement a 
self assessment test before pro­jecting their views upon others in their community. 


cctnec 

page 12 Tuesday, February 13, 2001 
CONCERT REVIEW 
Highs, lows of indie rock on display at Metro 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Ska-punk kings Less Than Jake mature for Borders 
previous Less Than Jake releas­comparable to By BRIAN KORNMANN es. The band chose to team with the shift the Scene Music Critic punk legends Bill Stephenson Pietasters made 
(Black Flag, Descendents, All) a few years ago 
Two years after its last release, and Stephen Eggerton to play a much Less Than Jake has returned to (Descendants, All). With these more blues ori­the ska scene with the release of two behind the production on ented ska then 
its eighth album, Borders and the album, one notices an imme­traditional ska. Boundaries. diate difference of quality from About eight of 
True to its road-dog image, the any previous Less Than Jake the 15 tracks on Gainesville, Fla. band spent the album. Borders and last two years touring with The bass and guitar come Boundaries Twisted Sister, Blink 182 and through very cleanly on the showcase this Bon Jovi (seriously). Due to its album, as does the horn section shift in music by rigorous touring schedule and of the band. In addition to the band. On first some personnel changes within sounding much cleaner, the listen, the ardent the band, it took a year and a album does a better job of cap­Less Than Jake half following the release of turing the live Less Than Jake fan may feel the Hello Rockview for the band to sound better than any of its prior first few tracks return to the studio. Despite releases. are slower and these setbacks, the album was On Borders and Boundaries, somewhat lack­definitely worth the wait. the band also shows more musi­ing, but the 
In addition to making the label cal maturity then any of it'l prior album grows on jump from Capital Records to Fat releases. This is most evident in you quickly. Wreck Chords there are many the band's shift from three-chord The album other differences between punk-ska, to more of a rock 'n' itself flows well, 
hoto courtesy of www.lessthanjake.com
Borders and Boundaries and roll sound. The shift in sound is with the songs leading easily into each other. No track sticks out alone as being out of place or excellent mix of rock 'n' roll and Than Jake fans, as well as the weaker than the rest. This com­ska sound. majority of those who pick up bined with the fact the entire The final three songs on the the album for a casual listen. album clocks in just shy of 41 album, "Last Hour of the Last Overall, the album rates as minutes makes the album a rela­Day of the Week." "Bigger Less Than Jake's second best tively quick and very easy listen. Picture" and "Faction" are faster effort to date, behind the 
Borders and Boundaries opens than the other songs on the groundbreaking Losing Streak and closes with a bang. The first album and help close out the which helped to establish the three tracks on the album, disc with a bang, leaving you band as a leader in the then "Magnetic North," "Kehoe" and wishing there was one more developing ska scene. Any fans "Suburban Myth" are outstand­track to listen to. of Less Than Jake will enjoy this ing, serving well to introduce the Borders and Boundaries is an album and should add it to their listener to what to expect from excellent album, one that will collection. the album as a whole -an appease both. the hardcore Less 

Line-up changes and a brutal touring schedule combined to make a slightly differ­ent sounding, yet solid, Less Than Jake album. 
By TIM BODONY 
Scene Music Critic 
So much of independent rock's appeal comes from its defiance of "the rules." An artist presenting a vision on a stage means more to indie rock fans than flashing lights and album sales. But in their quest to blaze new paths through the music world, just how far are indie rockers willing to go to assert their independence, and who will follow along? 
The two indie rock heavy-weights on stage at Chicago's Metro Theatre last Friday, Pedro the Lion and Low, provid­ed very different answers to these ques-
At a concert at Chicago's Metro Theatre on Feb. 9, Pedro The Lion (left) showed fans that mini­dirge. Bazan leads Pedro malist indie rock does not have to be completely anti-climactic. Low (right), did not fare as well. the Lion through a full 
tions. Both bands presented their music with a naked minimalism, relying on simple harmonies instead of elaborate compositions. But their motivations seemed worlds apart. While Low appeared to keep its music simple for simplicity's sake alone, Pedro the Lion made use of it as a means to a greater end. 
Pedro the Lion is the brainchild of David Bazan, who played all the instru­ments on the band's latest release "Winners Never Quit," but brought a drummer and keyboardist along for the tour. From the moment Bazan stepped to the mic, his nine-song set was a grip­ping study in contradictions, telling the tale of a man with strong convictions who always seems to draw the short straw. In between songs, the tall and muscular Bazan resembled a lion of the cowardly variety, timidly greeting the crowd and professing that he feels "out of his league" on the Metro stage. 
But once the music started, Bazan showed tremendous command. rhyth­mically driving away at his electric gui­tar as he cathartically sang of loneli­ness, desperation and loss. His words resonate with anyone who embraces the loser within, yet still seeks salvation and escape to a better place. 
This might mean "escaping the trou­ble of the present age" by hiding at the bottom of the sea ("Of Up and Corning Monarchs"), or finding solace in the 
Gospel promise that in heaven the last will be first. with Jesus handing out "a crown of diamonds for a race well run" ("Slow and Steady Wins the Race"). 
But most compellingly, Bazan's songs illustrate the rocky and crooked path leading to this point, obstructed by the infideli­ties of loved ones and unful­filled ambition. In his pre­sentation of these songs to an audience, Bazan simply wants to share his stories with others, and though his messages are often bleak, the music is not a perpetualrange of emotions, sometimes scream­ing with anger and sometimes whisper­ing with hope, but always forthright and honest. 


The Minnesota minimalist trio Low. on the other hand, presented music that was far more contrived and bounded. 
One can deduce the essence of the band simply from its name, or more accurately, by placing an "s" in front of it. Low's modus operandi is to create music that flows like molasses, and in doing so bring out all of the stark beau­ty that faster music skims over. 
They employ very little instrumenta­tion (one guitar, one bass. two drums and a cymbal) and drive their songs with simple vocal harmonies and chord structures. An emotional release of all the stored-up tension never arrives. and as songs appear to climb towards a peak, the band cuts them back down into a valley. The volume was so soft at times that the cash registers at the bar were by far the loudest sound in the theatre. 
Could there be brilliance behind all this eccentricity? Perhaps, but the utter lack of energy produces more yawns than quizzical reflections. 
Avoiding the traps and cliches of pop music is one thing, but other innovative minimalist groups like Godspeed You Black Emperor, not to mention Pedro the Lion, manage to do it without sacri­ficing aggression and explosion. They take listeners on a wild roller coaster ride as opposed to a monotonous walk around the block. 

----·--------------------------­

c~nec 

Tuesday, February 13, 2001 page 13 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Furious Relationship helps ATDI break-out 

Photo courtesy of www.atthedrive-in.com Relationship of Command, the latest album from lndle punkers At The Drive-In Is a per­fect balance of emotional fury and musical control. 
NEW RELEASES 
wx· 

Today 

Ushe.-• All About You·••,-toRecord Only w•1h Water 
····ForTen Days Tantnc -Tancnc 
February 20 
.···· 11enry·Rolljns -A RolHns •n 1he Way OI¾t Boy Georae • Essen1:•a1 11•x 
· rd C~hen -F•eld Commander Cohen: 
Tour of •070 
February 27 
Dave Nathews Band -EYeryday Pearl Jam • Domesc:•c Booc:teas , Powerman 5000 • Backscaae and Beyond the lnfjnj1e 



By SAM OERHEIMER 
Assistant Scene Editor 
They've become the icons of the blossoming genre of emu-rock (emotional rock), the latest trend in indie rock. Opening for bands like Rage Against the Machine. At The Drive-In has amazed fans. critics and fellow musicians alike with performances so full of energy and passion, they've been touted as everything from the saving grace of rock 'n· roll to the new Nirvana -not exactly small shoes to fill. 
As should bo expected of any band labeled "tho new Nirvana," At The Drive-In's style is not easy to define. Neil Strauss of Rolling Stone recently called At The Drive-In "too punk to be metal, too art-rock to be punk, too pop to be art-rock, too smart to be pop and too stoned to be smart." In a nutshell, there you have 
ATDI. 
The thing about ATDI is, it could care less what is popular or pretty. It plays only what comes from the souls or the five members that make up the band. And those souls are apparently full of a whole lot of pas-

UPCOMING CONCERTS 
South Bend 
Umphrey•s McGee 
Neat Puppecs Dark Star Orchestra Voaue Thea•er Nacchbox Twen•y Conseco A Perfect Cllrcle Pepsll CoHseum DaYlld Gray NuracRoom 
U2 Conseco 
Chicago 
Coldplay Rfftera Boy Georae Netro Naffhew sweet Me-cro XZIBII House Of Blues Pantera UIC PavtHon The Samples House of Blues Lords Of Acjd Ne-tro Saw Doctors Necro Noe. Rllftera 

Nar. 1"···· Mar.Ci 
Nar.17 ApnllCi Nay 10 

Nar. I Nar.a Nar.9 
Nar. 10 
sion for what thev do. Lead vocalist Cedric Bixler thrashes like a madman 
Relationship of 
through a frenzy of politically charged. 
Command
fragmented lyrics. Not to be outdone, lead guitarist Omar Hodriguez matches 
At The Drive-In
his vocalist's intensity as he powers his way through song after song of heavy, splintered punk-rock guitar riffs -and 
Grand Royal Records 
the rest of the band is not far behind. In other words, these guys never let up. Relationship of Command, the band's 
Rating
latest release and first release since sign­ing with Grand Royal Records, is one of the most intense rock albums to come 
.......... 
out in some time, and is finally helping 
ATDI achieve the attention it has long deserved. 
"One Armed Scissor," the first single off Relationship of Command, may be the best represen­tative of the album as a whole. In the track, Bixler rips through a tirade of emotion and raw energy as he literally screams, "Pucker up and kiss the asphalt now!" Like a sick chemist. Rodiquez masterfully com­bines everything from the hard, fast 
punk riffs common to the genre, to more unexpected airy clas­sic rock-ish riffs. "One Armed Scissor" is smart, sharp and a complete adrenaline rush to say the least. 
Tracks like "Enfilade" and "Mannequin Republic" mix Bixler's fiery style with a more grungy musical backing. As Bixler unleashes a rush of vocal power. his band explodes behind him in a sort of twisted concoction of Nirvana and the Sex Pistols. 
In  "Enfilade,"  
Bixler  wails,  "We  
wait  as  lepers  

/upheld at knife's reach /we covet all 

the status quo." Here is found the beating heart of ATDl's mission -heavy doses of poignant social mes­sages converted into furious punk-rock rhythms. 
The only real problems on Relationship arise when the band abandons this structure. With a draggingly slow pace at times and uncharacteristic fluffy guitars, "Invalid Litter Dept." is by far the biggest failure on the album. As the band sheds its intensity, it loses much of what makes ATDI such an attractive force. Bixler's vocals quickly deteriorate from powerful and insightful to artsy and pretentious. A similar problem is found in the likewise slower "Non-Zero Possibility." 
For the most part, Relationship of Command is a remarkable example of innovation in a tired and seen-it-all-before rock scene. The energy and musi­cianship present on tracks like "Cosmonaut" and "Pattern Against User" more than make up for what is lost on songs like "Invalid Litter Dept." ATDI has successfully captured more raw emotion and energy on this studio album than most bands could ever hope to achieve performing live. 
Whether or not At The Drive-In truly is the saving grace of rock is yet to be seen. But to understand At The Drive-In is to realize that it really doesn't matter anyway. ATDI will continue to make searing, honest punk-rock music whether they end up on THL or not (In truth, they probably wouldn't want to go even if they had the chance). 
In the end, that is the ultimate draw of this band, that is the edge that will always keep them one step ahead of anyone else. Passion like ATDl's can not be faked. Passion like ATDl's is what raises some bands to rock 'n' roll gods. while those that lack it quietly fall to the wayside. It is passion like ATDI's that makes Relationship of Command an extraordinary punk-rock album. 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, February 13, 2001 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Georgetown struggles in Big East play, falls to Villanova 
Associated Prus 
WASHINGTON 
Bad ball-handling beat bad shooting. 
Playing most of the game without injured point guard Jermaine Medley, Villanova overcame 23 turnovers and a rare missed free throw by record-breaker Gary Buchanan to upset Georgetown (No. 16 ESPN/USA Today, No. 18 AP) 59-56 on Monday night. 
Villanova's Michael Bradley dunked over the Boyas' Michael Sweetney for two of his 24 points. Bradley shot 7-for-10 from the field. 
Despite recent injuries to Medley, Brooks Sales and Ricky Bryant, the Wildcats (15-8. 6-5 Big East) won their 
consecutive free throws made at 73. 
Buchanan made his second shot to give Villanova a 3-point lead, and Braswell missed a 3-pointer at the buzzer that could've sent the game to overtime. 
"The record is over," Buchanan said. "It's one of those things where I'll take the win over the record any day. I rushed it. I was just too confident." 
Villanova struggled to handle the ball against Georgetown's press without Medley, who started but _played only three minutes on the ailing right knee he injured Saturday against Connecticut. Bryant saw his first action since Jan. 17, having missing seven games with a pulled abdominal muscle. 
Mike Sweetney had 14 points and was the only Georgetown player in double figures. The starting backup tan­
third straight and can start dem of Hunter and
"I think everybody has
thinking about the NCAA Braswell both shot 3-for-10 tournament again -as got to realize we've got from the field. and backup soon as the body count to step it up. We've hit a center Lee Scruggs was 2­improves. for-15. The Hoyas were 7­
part ofthe season
"We've had so much for-32 from 3-point range. adversity. The good thing is where we have to be The Wildcats took the we haven't been able to more competitive, where lead for good on Aaron talk about it," coach Steve Matthew's runner that
we're playing tough 
Lappas said. "Our kids made it 53-51 with 3:18 to have just done a great job teams in the play. Snowden made a of responding." conference." layup with 1:13 to go to 
Georgetown. coming off increase the lead to four. its worst Big East loss After Hunter made one of 
Craig Esherick 
Saturday at Providence, two free throws to cut the more than compensated for Georgetown coach lead to three, Buchanan 
Villanova's turnovers toll by shooting just 27 percent. The Hoyas (19-5, 6-5), once ranked in the Top 10, are 3-5 since starting 16•0 and are wanting for confidence. 
"When you got it, you got it. When you don't, there's a reason," guard Kevin Braswell said. "We just need to watch the games that we played at the beginning of the year to get our confidence back." 
Georgetown's only field goal during the final 4:55 was Demetrius Hunter's 3-pointer with 5.6 seconds to play. 
Michael Bradley scored 24 points, was 7 ­for-10 from the field, 9-for-12 from the free-throw line, had eight rebounds and three steals for the Wildcats. But he also had seven turnovers as he battled a collaps­ing Georgetown defense. 
Buchanan had eight turnovers, but he hit a big 3-pointer with 15 seconds remaining to give the Wildcats a 58-52 lead. 
"l hadn't hit a shot all game," said Buchanan, who was 2-for-7 from the field and finished with seven points. "I just thought one had to fall for me tonight." 
Then, with a chance to ice the game with 
4.6 seconds to go, Buchanan missed a free throw. ending his Division I-record streak of made the big 3-pointer. 
Bradley scored 13 points in the first 10 minutes as Villanova took a 20-7 l_ead. Wright took over from there, scoring four straight inside baskets against a porous Hoyas defense. 
Georgetown missed 10 of its first 13 shots. The Hoyas couldn't shoot from outside, while centers Ruben Boumtje Boumtje and Wesley Wilson amassed negative plays in the form of fouls and turnovers. 
Trailing 29-17 late in the first half, Georgetown sandwiched an 11-0 run around halftime and allowed just two field goals during a 13-minute span. Anthony Perry and Gerald Riley made back-to-back 3-pointers to give the Hoyas a 45-36 lead with 9:52 to play. 
Then Bradley, a non-factor for some 20 minutes, reasserted himself and scored six points and had one assist in a 13-2 run that put the Wildcats back in front, 49-47, with 
5:14 to go. 
"I think everybody has got to realize we've got to step it up," Georgetown coach Craig Esherick said. "We've hit a part of the season where we have to be more competi­tive, where we're playing tough teams in the conference." 

NHL 

Senators upend Islanders to end 5-game losing streak 
Associated Press 
OTTAWA 
Alexei Yashin scored two of Ottawa's three power-play goals Monday night as the Senators beat the New York Islanders 3-1 to end a five-game winless streak. 
Ottawa moved into a tie for first place overall in the Eastern Conference standings with idle New Jersey at 70 points. 
Yashin opened the scoring mid­way into the first period, and added his second goal of the game and 26th of the season early in the sec­ond. 
Defenseman Karel Rachunek set up both of Yashin's goals. 
The Senators have lost just once in their last 21 games against the Islanders since Feb. 12, 1996. Ottawa has 15 wins and five ties against New York over that period. 
Marian Hossa scored his 22nd goal in the first period as the Senators converted three of seven power-play opportunities against goalie Rick DiPietro, the first pick overall in last June's NHL draft. 
Bill Muckalt scored his eighth goal 1 :33 after Hossa put Ottawa ahead 2-0 to briefly draw New York within one. 
DiPietro. who fell to 0-5. was pulled for an extra attacker with just over three minutes left in the third. 
Senators goalie Janni Hurme stopped 36 shots to win his third straight. Hurme. in his first start since Jan. 25, raised his record to 9-4-4 in 18 games. 
Yashin took a pass from Rachunek and wristed a shot past DiPietro on Ottawa's second power play of the game. 
Hossa made it 2-0 as he followed up his shot and poked the puck past DiPietro from the edge of the crease during a delayed penalty call against New York with one sec­ond left in Craig Berube's hooking penalty. 
Muckalt took Dave Scatchard's pass and lifted the puck over Hurme to draw the Islanders to 2­
1. But Yashin restored the Senators' two-goal lead in the sec­ond when he took another pass from Rachunek and slapped the puck past DiPietro as Ottawa scored on its third straight power-play opportunity. 

Rangers 4,· Blue Jackets 3 
Mike Richter made 37 saves and four Rangers scored as New York beat Columbus. 
Columbus goalie Ron Tugnutt allowed three goals on the Hangers' first nine shots, but the Blue Jackets nearly came back to tie it. 
Steve Heinze deflected Lyle Odelein's shot past Richter on a power play with 1:17 remaining to make it 4-3. The Blue Jackets had a chance to tie, but Richter covered up a loose puck in the crease with 
12.4 seconds to play after Espen Knutsen's slap shot skimmed off a pair of legs. 
Richter made 20 saves in the third period. 
Only 25 seconds after Columbus scored two consecutive goals in the second period. to tie the game, the Rangers' Adam Graves scored on a nifty deflection for a 3-2 lead. Standing at the left circle, Graves deflected Alexei Gusarov's pass from the point between Tugnutt's pads for his eighth of the season, ending a 12-game drought. 
Kevyn Adams had tied the game 2-2 on a redirection of his own. Serge Aubin won the faceoff back to Jamie Pushor. who's shot from the right point ricocheted off Adams' skate in the slot and past Richter. 
An intense, back-and-forth affair that had the feel of postseason hockey saw the Rangers score first. Playing in his fifth .game, rookie Jeff Ulmer scored his second career goal. 
After a Blue Jackets turnover along the boards, Manny Malhotra gathered the puck deep in the Columbus zone and zipped a pass from the right circle to Ulmer for the close range tip-in. 
' Seconds after a Columbus power play ended, Radek Dvorak staked the Rangers to a 2-0 advantage on a breakaway just 1:45 into the sec­ond period. Charging in on Tugnutt, Dvorak was tripped by Jean-Luc Grand Pierre. But, while sliding head-first he nudged the puck between Tugnutt's legs before crashing into the goaltender and sending the net off its moorings. 
Dvorak lay shaken in the net for a few minutes. but didn't miss a shift. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. co 3 r.m. ac che Nocre Dame office 024 South J?ining Hall. Deadline for nexc-~ay cl":'sifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds muse be prepaid. ' 
The charge 1s 3 cents per character pee day, mcludmg all spaces. The Observer reserves che right co edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
LOST AND FOUND 
SIZEABLE REWARD OFFERED: For a lost gold and silver bracelet with alternating silver and gold blocks, if found please contact Rachel Phillips at 4-1492 or email 12hilli12§.7/;ilnd,egu 
FOR RENT 
3-5 bedroom hOmes nearo campus 232-2595 mmmrentals@aol.com 
All the good houses are not gone! Available 4 bedroom. Available 2 bedroom. Dave 291-2209 macris ~ mii;biana 11rg 
Available immediately duplex I Br 1 
1.2 ba less than 1 mile lrom ND 
$330 wk+utils. 
Discount for Payment by Month or Semester. Security Deposit Required. 1·800-867-5901 or 1­877-288-9330 
Available immediately duplex I Br 1 ba Efficiency 1 mile from ND $150 wk (Includes utils) Discount for Payment by Month or Semester. Security Deposit Req'd. 1-800-867-5901 or 1 ·877-288-9330 
Available Maren 2001 duplex I 2 BR 1 ba Efficiency less than 1 mile from ND $250 (Includes utils). 
Discount for Payment by Month or Semester. Security Deposit Required. 1-800-867-5901 or 1-877-288-9330 
Lafayette Next Year 5 bdrm. Wash/ dry $1305/mth marty 232-1306 
Rooms for rent &share home. 65-75 week includes utilities and cable. 233-4013 
Nice home north of ND. Good area for next school year. 
2n-3097 
CONDOS FOR RENT FOR JPW VISITORS: Why not reserve ­close to ND Na fully fully furnished condo containing kitchen with relrig­erator, microwave, disposal, dish• ware, laundry facility and fireplace on the corner of Ivy Rd. & Edison Rd? Available for extended stay or for weekends. Contact Unicorn Management at 219-232-1242 for assistance or leave message on the reservations line 219-273-IVYND 
(4896) 
WANTED 
Wanted: Balck female roommate in Castle Point Apartments $350 271-7195 
$$ Get paid for your opinions! $$ Earn $15-$25 and more per survey. www.money4opinions.com Would you like an opportunity to earn a $10,000 scholarship towards next year's tuition? Looking for an ND student to work at a summer beach estate from 5/15/2001 ­8/15/2001 in Eastern Long Island (Hamptons), New York. Live-in position (room and board provided) with beach.pool, and house respon­sibilities. Work 6 days per week. Applicant must be very responsible, industrious, hard working, a self-starter, impeccably well groomed, with a nice amiable personality. Room and board provided plus spending money and $10,000 towards tuition. Please send resume and a one-page statement on why you think you should be hired to: Box 153, 60 E.Chestnut St., Chicago, IL 60611. 
Full time Ph.D. student research tel• lowships"available in the Cell and Molecular Physiology Graduate Program of Loyola University Chicago including ion channel mol­ecular biology, biophysics and bio­chemistry, cardiac electrophysiolo­gy, calcium dynamics and excita­lion-contraction coupling. signal transduction, neurophysiology, and neural and immune components of trauma and injury biology. Applications are sought from indi­viduals motivated to become bio­medical research scientists. See our web page at '!:ft!.w.meggean.ly1,.egy/lymeolDe121 Webs/HYSIO or contact Dr. Stephen B. Jones, Department of Physiology, Stritch School of Medicine, Loyola University Chicago, 2160 South First Avenue, Maywood, IL 60153. Telepone (708) 327-2470. E-mail: sjones@lumc e!:!u Loyola University is an equal oppor­!unity/affirmative action employer. 

PERSONAL 

VALENTINE CLASSIFIEDSI Send your sweetheart a Valentine classified in The Observer. Deadline is 2 p.m. 2/13. 
Free air1ine miles and CA$H! international and 100% FREE to join at b!lti;lllb~tlalllin~.s;Qm. click to ENROLL without any delay as everyone joining atter you from whole world will be placed under you in one straight line earning you free airline miles. SIGN UPI Use my email address as your referrer: 1l1l!: jt,2g[QUQ~ei11::tblill~ ll!!l 
Suppressed Dead Sea Scrolls & Nag Hammadi Codices research: www.geocites.com:80/Athens/Rhod es/7301 /deadsea. html 
Phone Cards $20 2601 min with 49 cent sur­charge. OR .. $20 362 min with no lees 634-1146 Claudia 634-421 oSara 
Fellers-I hate that you know me so well. Sorry I was in a bad mood. 
I love my twin. 
maybe I will wal~ by her office with a sign several times tomorrow 
What ii I was serious? Maybe I am. 
Rollin' with the homies -twin style. 
Has anyone seen a heavenly figure in a blue coat speaking with a German accent? 
Christina has evidently. And Lora heard him speak. 
Mooria • my favorite third roommate. 

Tuesday, February 13, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
North Carolina keeps top spot, Notre Danie juDlps to 14th 

Associated P rcss 
NEWYORK 

While North Carolina remained No. 1 in The Associated Press poll for the second straight week Monday, two of college ba'iketball's other premier programs re-entered the Top 25. 
Kentucky and UCLA, both dropped from the rankings 11 weeks ago. came in this week at Nos. 22 and 24. 
North Carolina (21-2). which ext.ended the nation's longest winning streak to 18 games with victories over Wake l<orest and Maryland last week, received 62 first-place votes and 
1.742 points from lhe national media panel. Stanford (22-1). which got the other eight No. 1 votes and 1,659 points. and Duke (22-2) remained second anthd thirnld. 
Illinois, which beat Michigan State last week in e o y reg­ular-season meeting between the Big Ten's top two teams. jumped from seventh to fourth, while the Spart.ans dropped one spot to fifth. 
KansM dropped one spot to sixth after losing to Iowa State IMt week. a victory that jumped the Cyclones from 12th to seventh. 
Arizona. Boston College and Syracuse rounded out the Top Ten. Boston College jumped from 17th to ninth, the Eagles' first appearance in the Top Ten since they were sixth on Dec. 20. 1983. 
Florida dropped three spots to No. 11 and was followed in the Second Ten by Virginia, Oklahoma, Notre Dame, Tennessee, Mississippi, Maryland. Georgetown. Wisconsin and Fresno State. 
The last five ranked teams were Alabama. Kentucky, Wake Forest, UCLA and Iowa. 
Kentucky (15-7) dropped from the rankings in late November after a loss to Penn State left the Wildcat'i 1-3. Consecutive losses to Georgia Tech and Michigan State gave Kentucky a 3-5 mark, but since then it has won 12 of 14 games. including the last five in a row. 
The Wildcats' 8-2 Southeastern Conference record gives them a two-game lead over Florida in the league's East Division. 
UQA (15-6) fell from the rankings after a stunning home loss to Cal State-Northridge left the Bruins 1-2. They re­entered the Top 25 on a three-game winning streak. all on the road, and the first two were over Stanford -the Cardinal's first loss of the season -and crosstown rival Southern 
~ -~~ ~•u~.. > ,_-.,,_ 

AP Poll 

team record points
' 1 North carolina 21-2 1,742 2 Stanford 22-1 1,659
22-2

>3 Duke 1,633 · 4 llllnols 1Q.5 1,487 · 5 Mlthl.gan State 19·3 1,459 ;;6 Kansas 19·3 1,337 7 Iowa State 21-3 1,317 'ii# Arizona 17•6 1,263 9 Boston College 18·2 1,0871D Syracuse 19·4 1,083b:11 Florida 16·5 1,079
I' 12 · 

Vlrgh1la 16·6 804
1 

Oklahoma 19-4 759 
NOTRE DAME 16•5 719 15 Ta11nessee 18·6 669 16 Ml11lasfppl 19-4 518 17 Maryland 15•8 458JB Georgetown 19·4 453 19 Wisconsin 15-6 429t!20 fnllll0Stale 20·3 426 ..2:1 Alabama 18•ti 403 22 Kentucky 15•7 382 23 Waka Forell 16·7 381 .24 UCLA 15·6 278 t25 Iowa 17-6 195 
California. 

Xavier (18-4) fell out from 24th after one week in the rank­ings. The Musketeers lost to St. Joseph's last week before beating Temple. 
The biggest jump of the week was Mississippi's rise from 25th to No. 16 after SEC wins over L.5U and Tennessee. The biggest drop of the week was Iowa's fall from 14th to No. 25 after the Hawkeyes. playing without injured guard Luke Recker. lost Big Ten games to Ohio State and Northwestern. 
Tennessee (18-6). which also lost a conference game to Arkansas last week, dropped from 10th to No. 15, the Volunteers' first appearance this season out of the Top Ten. 


·­
,., ... ,1,,, ·"' ' 

page 16 The Qbserver . SPORTS Tuesday, February 13, 2001 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Undefeated Notre Dame holds on to No. 1 ranking 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Notre Dame stayed No. 1 Monday in The Associated Press women's basketball poll, which had the same top four as last week and two newcomers near the bottom. 
Georgia and Iowa State moved into the positions right behind the leaders, while No. 23 Washington and No. 25 Iowa joined the poll for the first time since the 1997 ­98 season. Neither had a v.inning season a year ago. 
Arizona and Clemson dropped out. 
Notre Dame (22-0), the only unbeaten team in Division I bas­ketball, received 39 of a possible 40 first-place votes from the national media panel after beat­ing Pittsburgh 72-58 in its only game last week. 
The Irish had 999 points in the voting -41 more than No. 2 Tennessee, which received the other first-place vote. 
Tennessee (25-1) topped 100 points in both of its games during the past week, including a 103-73 victory at then-No. 6 Florida on Sunday. The Lady Vols have won 14 straight since a Dec. 30 loss at Connecticut and are just three vic­tories from their fifth unbeaten Southeastern Conference sea.son. 
They beat Mississippi 119-52 in their other game. 
Connecticut (20-2) stayed in the No. 3 spot and Duke (21-2) held at No. 4 despite losing at home to Florida State. 
Georgia climbed two spots to fifth after a 92-55 victory over South Carolina, and decisive wins over Oklahoma State and Kansas State sent Iowa State from ninth to sixth. 
Purdue fell two places to sev­enth after losing at Iowa, Louisiana Tech stayed at No. 8, Florida dropped three spots to ninth and Oklahoma remained 10th. 
No. 11 Rutgers. No. 12 Xavier and No. 13 Louisiana State each moved up one place. Texas Tech fell three spots to 14th aft.er see­ing its 41-game home winning streak ended by Texas. 
Southwest Missouri State held at No. 15 and Utah was 16th, fol­lowed by Penn State, Texas, Colorado and Vanderbilt. 
North Carolina State, Wisconsin. Washington, Arizona State and Iowa completed the Top 25. 
Washington (15-6) made the poll for the first time since Feb. 24, 1998. The Huskies, 8-22 last season, have won four straight and five of six to pull into a tic for the Pac-10 lead with Arizona State. 
They beat Arizona State 76-60 on Saturday, two nights after making a league-record 16 3­pointers in a 98-88 victory over then-No. 22 Arizona. Arizona, which had been ranked four of the last five weeks, also lost to Washington State on its trip to the Northwest. 
Iowa (14-8), coming off a 9-18 season, has made giant strides under first-year coach Lisa Bluder and is tied for second in the Big Ten. The Hawkeyes beat Purdue 96-87 and followed the upset with an 82-71 victory at Minnesota to run their winning streak to six. 
Clemson, 25th last week, dropped out after splitting two games. The Tigers lost to North Carolina 100-99 in overtime on a basket with less than a second remaining and beat Wake Forest 72-55. 

ERNESTO LACAYO/The Observer Point Guard Niele Ivey passes the ball in Notre Dame's win over Pittsburgh Feb. 7. The Irish remain atop the rankings as the only undefeated team in Division I basketball. 
University Laundry and Tanning 
Buy one Tan Package, Get the 2nd FREE Offer good for one person only -no splits 

COLLEGE CAMPUS SHOPPES 
US 23 & Vanessa 271;7675 
Expires February 28, 2001 
Large One Topping Pizza 
every tuesday 
271-0300 

Call today and 11am-2am sun-thurs mention this ad!! 11am-3am fri-sat 

Tuesday, February I3, 200 l The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
---_-_-_-_-_-­
This Week in Campus Ministry 
Beginning Monday. January 29 through February 19 Sign-up for Freshman Retreat #34 
(February 23-24, 2001) 
Pick up applications at 103 Hesburgh Library orprintoneoutonline at www.nd.edu/~ ministry/freshmanform.html 
Beginning Monday, February 5 through February 23 
Sign-up for Senior Retreat #5 (March 2-3, 2001) Pick up applications at l 03 Hesburgh Library or print one out online at www.nd.edu/ ,-,ministry/seniorform.html) 
Monday-Tuesday. February 12-13. 11:30 pm-10:00pm St. Paul's Chapel. Fisher Hall 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Tuesday. February 13. 7:00 p.m. Badin Hall Chapel 
Campus Bible Study 
Wednesday. February 14. 10:00 p.m. Morrissey Hall Chapel 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Saturday-Sunday. February 17-18. 5:30 p.m. Joyce Center 
Junior Parents' Weekend Mass 
Sunday. February 18. 10:00 a.m. Notre Dame Room. LaFortune 
RCIA Class Mass at 11:45 a.m. 
Sunday, February 18, 1 :30 p.m. Zahm Hall Chapel 
Spanish Mass Presider: Fr. Thomas V. Bednar, c.s.c. 
Beginning Monday. February 19 through February 23 
Sign-up Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #65 (March 30-April 1, 2001) Pick up applications at 103 Hesburgh Library or print one out online atwww.nd.edu/,..,ministry/ndeform.html 
Monday, February 19, 6:30 p.m. 201 DeBartolo 
RCIA Study Session 

Campus Ministry 
Opening March 2001 
Coleman-Morse Center 
112 Bodin Hall 631-5242 103 Hesburgh Library 631-7800 
email ministry.1@nd.edu 
web www.nd.edu/~ ministry 
The Church's wisdom on sex and marriage has perhaps never been so misunderstood and under appreciated 

Faith FAQs
as it is now. Living together is now as common among Catholics as in the general population. Some reports say 

?Catholic facti that the rate ofcohabitation among couples seeking marriage in the Church is now over 40%. 


What'~ wrong with living together 
The question of cohabitation is really before we get married? about the meaning of sexuality and the human need for a chaste preparation for marriage. Sometimes a couple can use sex to smooth over their differences, to give them a feeling of closeness that they might not be feeling otherwise. When this happens, sex can actually become an obstacle to a deeper reconciliation and emotional bond. Having a long period of chaste preparation before marriage helps to establish a relationship founded upon real communication and reconciliation. Sex then can express fully the closeness that real communication makes 
possible.
~ometimes acouple can me sex to smooth over their 

The fruits of a sexual relation­
differences, to give them afeeling of closeneu that they ship are forever. No matter might not be feeling otherwise. When this happem, sex how careful a couple may be to 
avoid pregnancy, no method is 
can acrually become an ob1tacle to adeeper reconciliation perfect and a new life is always 
a possibility. A new life is a
and emotional bond. 

sacred and eternal thing. In the language of the body, sex says forever. Only when a couple says "I do" at rhe alrar, do they make the commitment to each other that they express in the "forever" of sex. 
Besides these two reasons, many more could be given to show the fundamental wisdom that sex saved until marriage becomes for the couple nothing less than the expression of their complete commitment to each other. 
Ever wonder why we as Catholics do what we do or believe what we believel Please send us your questiom, comments and suggestiom to ministry.1@nd.edu. 

~ 
Interfaith Prayer Service 
~ 

By scudencs. For scudencs. .. ',7.:··_r.:· ·~;} .· .. ~;-;\:·,:.:')f'1 
lnte~tiffill 

t,.___1yer 



page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, February 13, 2001 
worldwide. More computers 
could be infected on Tuesday in 1-----------\ ~ making a Asia. "Everybody and their brother 
difference as a
and sister-in-law are infected 
49¢g~~~~s
with this thing," said David Perry, director of public educa· single-sided on 8.5" x11" 28 lb. paper. 
Sister of the Holy Cross
tion at Trend Micro Inc. "Last You'll be amazed by the quality. year, everybody wanted to be loved. Apparently many people want to see a JPEG [picture] of 
Anna Kournikova." COPY SHOP Prepare your heart to 
The virus, which appears to LaFortune Student Center have originated in Europe, On !he Campus of the University of Notre Dame 
listen to God's call 
comes as an attachment named "AnnaKournikova.jpg.vbs" and Call 631-COPY carries the message "Hi: Check 
at aRetreat
This!" But it does not actually FREE Pick-Up & Delivery contain a photo of the tennis See store for details. star. Coupon required. Hurry• expires 2/14/01. at 
Graham Cluley, senior tech­
\N:v~d~it~a:o~e~ff::d::1 
Mary's SolitudeINTERNATIONALWORKJNG OPPORTUNITY Saint Mary's • Notre Dame, Indiana • 46556 Friday, February 16, at 5 p.m. through Saturday February 17, at 7 p.m. 
To register or for more information: (219) 284•5356 E-mail: vocations@cscsisters.org 
RECRUITING DATES: February 14 & 15, 2001 at Career and Placement Services. Japanese Language skills NOT required. Open to all majors. SIGN UPS NOW OPEN 

NCAA FOOTBALL 
UK coach questions recruiting 
BOXING 

Tyson bites at chance to fight champ Lewis 
of $30 million for each fighter. 
Associated Press 

But, despite the willingness of 
both fighters to meet, it is still 
LAS VEGAS a long way from reality. 
Mike Tyson said Monday Lewis is under contract to he's ready to fight heavy­HBO, while Tyson has a con­weight champion Lennox tract with Showtime, and Lewis this summer. telling his unless the cable channels can manager to start negotiations come to an agreement there as soon as possible for a fight will be no fight. In addition, that could be the richest ever. the two camps would have to 
The fight still faces huge agree on purses, with both hurdles before it fighters feeling could be made, they should but Tyson and "Mike would love to get the bigger 
Lewis are now have this fight as his payday. 
both on the "I believe
birthday gift. " 
record as saying we're worth they want t.o more because fight sometime Shelly Finkel we bring the this year. money," Finkel
manager
"Mike would said. "Mike is love to have this the biggest fight as his attraction birthday gift," manager Shelly here." Finkel said of the former Lewis has said all along he heavyweight champion, who wants to fight Tyson, but turns 35 on June 30. "If Tyson has been reluctant in Lennox is serious about mak­his latest comeback to commit ing this fight. there's nothing himself to a challenge for the avoiding it happening on our WBC and IBF titles. end." Tyson, currently suspended 
Lewis' business manager, for testing positive for mari­Adrian Ogun, said on Sunday juana after his October fight he was ready to begin talks with Andrew Golota, said for the fight, but said he prior to that fight that he wasn't sure if Tyson's camp needed three or four fights wanted the fight. before taking on Lewis. 
Finkel said he called Tyson That apparently has now on Monday and got the former changed, though, and Finkel champion's approval for the said Tyson will be ready after fight. his next fight, which will be in 
"Let's get it on," Finkel late April or May against 
quoted Tyson as saying. David lzon. 
The fight could surpass the "We're ready to make the second Tyson-Evander fight. If Lennox is free to Holyfield fight as the richest make it, we're ready to sit ever, with revenues of more down immediately," Finkel than $100 million and purses said. 
you
• ­
• 

Associated Press 
LEXINGTON, Ky. 
Tony Franklin, fired after the season as Kentucky's offensive coordinator, said Moml,ay he was uncomfortable with some of the school's recruiting practices. 
Franklin said he spoke with Sandy Bell, the school's assistant athletic director for compli• ance, about possible recruiting improprieties in the football program. Coach Hal Mumme resigned earHer this month during a school investigation into recruiting violations. 
Franklin said that although he was fired by Mumme the day after the Wildcats' season-end­ing loss at Tennessee, he told Mumme after a heated argument on Oct, 15 he would not be returning to the program. 
"I've been portrayed as a vindictive, fired coach," said Franklin, a longtime high school coach. "I am vindictive because I was fired. l made up stories because I was fired. I leaked information because I was fired .... I made a choice to leave the University of Kentucky because I no longer supported the head coach." 
The school has admitted uncovering many secondary violations and a few the NCAA may consider major. It is expected to release details of its internal investigation soon. 
Former assistant coach and recruiting coordi­nator Claude Bassett in January admitted send· ing $1,400 in money orders to a Memphis high school football coach and improperly cashing a $500 check donated by a booster to help fund Mumme's summer football camp. 
"I do believe Sandy Bell has a very tough job," Franklin said. "She doesn't have subpoena power or the ability to make people tell the truth. They have to go from one lie to the next and try to figure it out." 
Franklin also talked at length about a derisive atmosphere in the program that was fostered by Mumme. Franklin saM Mumme, Bassett and former defensive coordinator Mike Major were extremely close and often took sides against many of the other assistants. 
"As you know. some of us were fired for chemistry," he said. "The chemistry was horri­ble, as a staff and among some coaches. It was awful by design and supported by the head foot­ball coach." 
Franklin said he did not know if Mumme had knowledge of recruiting violations. But if. he didn't, that was nearly as bad as knowing and allowing them to continue, Franklin claimed. 
"Coach Mumme rarely asked me to do any­thing as far as recruiting," he said. "In the recruiting field, we all knew that we were sup­posed to do exactly what (Bassett) told us to do. There were just some things I would have been uncomfortable with and that I would not do." 
Neither Mumme nor Bassett could be reached for comment Monday night. 

Associated Press 
NEWYORK 
A computer virus purported to be an electronic photo of Anna Kournikova overwhelmed e-mail servers throughout Europe and North America on Monday. 
The virus slowed down e-mail systems and forced some com­panies to shut down their e-mail altogether while they cleaned out the rogue program. Security experts said the virus does not permanently damage comput­ers. 
Within a few hours, the virus had managed to spread almost as rapidly as last May's "I Love You" virus, whlch caused tens of millions of dollars in damage nology consultant at Sophos Anti-Virus Inc., said the virus writer skillfully exploited Kournikova's sex appeal and "the average fantasy of the guy who sits in front of the computer terminal." 
The virus can automatically send copies of itself to everyone on a recipient's address book. It spreads primarily through Microsoft Outlook e-mail soft­ware on Windows computers. 
Many anti-virus companies developed software updates to filter out the new virus. 
Microsoft spokesman Adam Sohn said the company released a security update in June, short· ly after the "I Love You" virus, that generates a warning any time a computer program attempts to access Outlook's address book. 
Vincent Weafer, director of the Symantec Anti-Virus Research Center, partly attributed the virus's spread to timing. 
"Oose to Valentine's Day, any­thing novel or different like this will get people's attention more than normal," he said. "They are expecting messages from friends, maybe pictures of each other or cards. People lower their guards." 

Kournikova virus clogs system 
Tuesday, February 13, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Rams coach will not return after 10-44 record 
A,sociatee! rrcn 
SOUTII KINGSTOWN. R.I. 
Jerry DeGrcgorio announced Monday he will not rel.urn as Khode Island's men's basket­ball coach next season after a 10-44 rt,cord that is I.he worst two-year stretch in school his­tory. 
DoGrogorio, in the second year of' a three-year contract, will finish the season with the Rams whilti the school looks for a new coach. athletic direc­tor Bon Petro said. 
"Thorc has been increased public speculation about Jerry's future and ho believed that such spoculalion is hurt­ing our ability to recruit. We share that concern," Petro said. "In offering his resigna­tion now, Jerry gives the uni­versity the ability to begin I.he search for a successor before the season ends." 
The decision on what will be done with the rest of the coaching staff will lie with the new coach, Petro said. 
DeGregorio said he had not anticipated some of the chal­lenges he faced. The Rams have been plagued by person­nel losses because or injuries and academic problems. 
"It's part of coaching. It's part of life," DeGrngorio said. "We'll move on and we'll be OK. Things will get better at UHi. That I can assure you." 
lie said he would miss teach­ing basketball and "the game of life" at Hhode Island. 
"These have been the most rewarding years of my life," DcGrcgorio said. "I don't 
regret my tenure as head coach." 
Petro would not discuss financial arrangements made with DcGregorio, who makes $130,000 a year. DeGregorio simply sa.id that "both sides are satisfied." 
The Hams have five remain­ing regular-season games. 
DeGregorio, whose previous head coaching experience was at lhe junior college and high school levels, was signed in April 1999 when .Jim Harrick left for Georgia.. 
The Rams arc 5-19 this sca­so n, including 1-10 in the Atlantic I 0, and have lost 11 of their last 12. The Hams were 5-25 last season, the worst record in 25 years. That losing season came after the school had played in three straight NCM tournaments. 
DcGregorio's supporters argued that tho players' injuries and academic prob­lems have prevented the coach from showing what he can do. 
Three players -Ed Brown, Tiger Womack and Tavorris Bell -were lost for part or all of a season, due to academic problems. 
The off-court problems reached peaked Saturday in a game against Dayton when Womack. who had rejoined the team in December. was sus­pended. DeGregorio apparent­ly did not tell anyone of the action before the game. 
After the game, DeGregorio confirmed he had suspended Womack but would not elabo­rate. The Hams' next game is Wednesday against George Washington. 
NBA 

Grizzlies hunt for new-home 
Associated rrcs, 
WASHINGTON 
The Vancouver Grizzlies can shop around for a new home. 
The Grizzlies, who will lose at least $40 million this year. were given permission by NBA commissioner David Stern to explore moving to another city next season. 
St. Louis, New Orleans, Las Vegas, and Nashville, Tenn., have been mentioned as pos­sible destinations for the team, which has struggled on the court and at the box office. 
Owner Michael Heisley. a Chicago businessman who paid $160 million to buy the Grizzlies in 1999, met with Stern and deputy commission­er Russ Granik on Monday at a Washington hotel to discuss the team's future. 
"We agreed· to assist Michael Heis!ey in exploring other North American cities which may be appropriate for Vancouver to look into," Slern said in a statement. 
If the team wants to move by the start of next season, il would have to submit an application to the NBA by March 1. 
Heisley told the Vancouver Sun there is a $200-million­plus offer from a party wish­ing to buy the team and move it to tho United States. 
Heisley's losses had previ­ously been estimated at $30 million, but Stern said they could be $40 million. 
St. Louis Blues owner Bill Laurie tried to buy the Grizzlies in 1999 with plans to move them to St. Louis. 
"[Vancouver] really, genuinely loves basketball, but at some point there has to be an expectation of performance." 
Aurthur Griffiths first Grizzlies owner 
He dropped the bid after NBA owners made it clear they wanted the team to stay in Vancouver. Spokesman Jim Woodcock said Laurie has taken no steps in recent months to pursue an NBA team for St. Louis. 
"We are reading the same reports that you are reading. regarding the Vancouver franchise," Woodcock said Monday. "We prefer not to comment until we know more." 
Doug Thornton, general manager of the New Orleans Arena, said officials planned to contact Ileis!ey to gauge his interest in bringing his team to Louisiana. 
Thornton said that because the arena does not have an NHL franchise that would compete for major-league ticket dollars and because the facility is "NBA-ready," New Orleans might move to the top of the list of new locations. 
"Sources tell us that he is interested in relocating the franchise, rather than selling it," Thornton said. 
Heisley, who bought the team from Seattle business­man John McCaw in 1999. has a history of turning underperforming companies 

into profitable operations. 
But despite consistently high draft picks, the team is 91 336 (.213) in its 5 1/2 years, including 13-36 this season. 
Vancouver's losing record, coupled with high Canadian taxes. has made the team one of the least desirable among players. 
High taxes and a falling cur­rency have also led some Canadian NHL teams to cross the border and has threat­ened the viability of tho Montreal Expos. 
Stern says it "may have been a mistake" to leave the Grizzlies in Vancouver. 
The team ·s poor perfor­mance looks even worsc1 when compared with the success of the Toronto Haptors, who joined the league at the same time. for the 1995-96 season. 
The Grizzlies· average attendance slipped to 13,000 last year from 16,000 in their 19.193-seat arena. 
The team managed to sell about 5,000 season tickets for this year. 
Stern left a glimmer of hope the team could remain in Vancouver. 
"My guess is there is a series of circumstances in which a team could survive and perhaps thrive there," he said. "But I'm not going to pound away at that." 
Vancouver businessman Arthur Grilliths, who obtained the Vancouver franchise, said the local business community cannot be fully blamed. 
"(Vancouver) really, gen­uinely loves basketball." said Griffiths. "But at some point there's an expectation of per­formance." 
. conmental 
• Science & 
Technology 
d Ulfivmity 'fNtltrl-DAJ1U; 
SEMINAR PRESENTATION.­
Exploring the effectiveness of environmental impact assessment 
Speaker: Dr. Angus Neil Morrison-Saunders 
Guesr Lecturer from Murdoch University WESTERN AUSTRALIA 
Date: Wednesday, February 14, 2001 
Time: 4:00 p.m. 
Location: DeBartolo Hall, Room 217 
ABSTRACT 
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) is a major tool promoted ~d used international!~ for the protection and management ofthe environment. It was adopted m each of~e con~ent1ons arising from the Rio Earth Summit in I 992. But how does the process operate m_practice? . Does EIA protect the environment? Is EIA based on good science? How do soc10-econorruc and political factors affect the process? This seminar will present the major findings of research into the utility and effectiveness ofenvironmental impact assessment conducted by Dr. Angus Morrison-Saunders over the last ten years. 
Dr. Angus Morrison-Saunders is a Lecturer in Environmental Assessment, Division ofScience_ an~ Engineering at Murdoch University, Western Australia. He completed a Ph.D. in EIA at Murdoch University in 1997. From /995-1999 he was a lecturer in the Environmental Smdies P,.ogram at the University ofNotre Dame-Austra/ra. He was coordinator ofEnvironmental Studies during 1998/99 and Academic Coordinator ofthe Notre Dame Study Abroad Program in 1999. Before commencing his Ph.D. in 1992, he worked in _various positions including Environmental Office with local government, environmental consultant (which predominantly involved preparation ofEIA documents) and Graduate Research Assistant at Murdoch University. 
Police arrest former Wisconsin running back for intimidation 
Associated rrcss 
MADISON, Wis. 

Michael Bennett, one of the nation's best running backs la.st season, was arrested at his apartment building Monday after kicking in a woman's door, police said. 
The former Wisconsin player -skipping his senior sea.son to turn pro -was released later in the day aft.er his arrest on three charges, including a felony count of criminal intimidation of a victim. 
Police also were recommending charges of criminal damage to prop­erty and disorderly conduct, both misdemeanors. 
Formal charges have not been filed. Police were still trying to deter­mine what started the dispute between Bennett and a 19-year-old female student, who live in the same building but on separate floors, police spokesman Benjamin Vanden Belt said. 
The 22-year-old running back called the woman several times and then kicked her door, splitting it sideways. hut was unable to enter the apartment. Vandon Belt said. 
''The people in the apartment could not get out and nobody could get in. It took some people pulling back and forth to get the door open," Vanden Belt said. 
Vanden Belt said Bennett may have called the woman to confront her about a disparaging remark her friend allegedly made about him. But Vanden Bolt said the comment was minor. Bennett was released on a signature bond after Dane County Court Commissioner Todd Meurer ordered him to have no contact with the woman or three of her friends. Wearing a black T-shirt and white sweat pants, Bennett gave short answers to Meurer's questions and was ordered to appoar for an initial court hearing March 5. 
"He's doing just fine. It wasn't the most pleasant Monday morning he's ever had," said Stephen Hurley, Bennett's attorney. 
Badgers fool.hall coach Barry Alvarez was out of town Monday and unavailable for comment, sports information director Steve Malchow said. He added it was premature for the school to issue a statement while police were still investigating the matter. 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, February 13, 2001 
Fencing 
continued from page 24 
without too much tactics. It just comes down to how good shape you arc in." 
Debic said he will be in even better shape for his rematch with Reichling this spring. 
Overall, the men had a very successful weekend. Only the men's epee squad dropped a match as they lost 4-5 to Air Force -a team they beat 8-1 last weekend. 
Epee captain Jan Viviani once again led the Irish with a 14-1 record. He fin­ished his sophomore season with a 44-4 record and now stands at 75-11 for his career. His .852 winning is the best epee winning percentage in Irish histo­ry. 
In sabre. 2000 NCAA champion Gabor Szelle posted another strong weekend with a 10-1 record as the sabre squad cruised to another perfect weekend. Only Ohio State proved to be a chal­lenge as the Buckeyes pushed the Irish in a 6-3 Notre Dame win. The sabre squad blanked North Carolina and Air Force while picking up 8-1 and 7-2 wins against Stanford and Duke, respectively. 
The women's team lost its first match s.ince the opening weekend as they fell to No. 3 Stanford 17-10. 
Auriol said his team did not fence its best this weekend. 
"If you are fencing a team as good as Stanford, you need to fence at your best, otherwise you have no chance," he said in a prepared statement. "We didn't have that extra spark this week­end." 
Sophomore All-American Natalia Mazur said the team was shocked when the match ended and they ended up on the losing side. 
"I don't think they were tough," she 
said. "I think we just had a brain freeze 
or something. They really weren't 
tough. It was a series of weird bout. We just couldn't believe what happened." 
The Cardinal dominated the Irish across the board in the match, beating the Irish 6-3 in foil and epee and 5-4 in sabre. 
Mazur was the only women's fencer who posted winning records against every team en route to a 10-3 weekend record. 

Despite the loss to Stanford, the women finished the regular season suc­cessfully as they defeated Air Force, Ohio State, Duke and North Carolina. 
In two weeks, the Irish host the Midwest Fencing Conference Championships as they tune up for the NCAA Championships at the end of March. With the best men's team in the country and a strong women's team, Debic thinks the Irish can finally move past the No. 2 finish they've been mired in for 5 seasons and return to the top. 

"We have a chance at winning the NCMs even though we don't have the best women's team," he said. "If the girls step it up and we fence our best, we can still win." 
see thi 
Bengal Bouts tickets on sale now! Call the Notre Dame ticket office at 631-7356, or see any boxer for tickets. Bouts begin Thursday, February 22. 
Don't Miss the Action ! 

----------------, 
' 
Tuesday, February 13, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
Charity 
continued from page 24 
have to do. They are also full-times students with homework, campus jobs and friends to keep up with. They have found the time to give back to a community that has supported them in the good times, even if not in the bad. 
We could all learn a lesson from the kids and the athletes at Sunday's party. 
The athletes have the right idea. If they can find time in their busy schedules to sup­port a local volunteer effort, so can we. 
Making a basket, crossing the goal line, and spiking the ball over the net for a point are definitely reasons to cheer. But commu­nity outreach is the real way lo score. 
And what can these kids show us? Well, on Sunday they all recognized who the real heroes are. Their heroes were a group of women who took time to care. 
These women don't make millions of dol­lars or hit a hundred homeruns in a season. They don't have to dye their hair green to make a statement, or refuse to play because the media is insulting. They are heroes 
because they know that they are part of 
somethipg outside themselves. They are 
heroes not because they are receiving, but 
because they are giving. 
The media has done its part to show the 
negative side of athletics. Now is a good time 
to show the positive. 
The women, both athletes, administrators 
and coaches. who participated in Sunday's 
party showed the families that were present 
that an athlete is more that just a body. An 
athlete is a heart and a soul as well. And an 
athlete will give her heart and soul to a little 
boy or girl who needs her help. 
So the next time you turn on the TV to 
watch the big game, or head over to Angela 
or the Joyce Center to watch some hoops, 
remember there is more to an athlete than 
entertainment. 
Many of the athletes you watch have given 
time to help the community. Stand up and .cheer for them, not because they are nation­
al champions, but because they are champi­
ons of the community. 
The opinions expressed in this column in are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The tasty Rodeo Cheeseburger for 99(. 
(Cowboy hat, boots and lasso sold separately.) 

•~ 
Got the urger 

The delicious, flame-broiled Rodeo Cheeseburger. 
Just ride in, saddle up to the counter and try a tasty, llama-broiled burger topped with melted cheese, crispy onion rings and tangy BULt:S-EYE~ BBQ sauce for only 99¢. · Hey, at that price you can afford to /eed your whole posse on 'em. 
Tennis 
continued from page 24 

Bergman at No. 1 singles." · "We were ready to play and were really inspired to go against the eighth ranked team in the country." 
The win over the Demon Deacons marks the highest ranked team the Irish have defeated since 1996, when they beat fifth-ranked Texas 5-4. The Irish improve to 3-1 against the Demon Deacons, winning three of the last four. 
After their impressive victory on Saturday, the Irish then took on a solid North Carolina team led by No. 11 Marlene Mejia. 
North Carolina came out tough and surprised the Notre Dame women by winning the doubles point, beating Cunha-Guy and Grcen­Vaughan, both 8-6. 
The Irish rallied, however, sweeping the singles matches and win­ning 6-1. The singles play was highlighted by a 6-0, 6-1 thrashing of Mejia courtesy of Dasso and an important victory by Guy who improved to 18-3 in singles matches this year. 
"We were a little bit down after we lost the doubles point but we didn't let it ruin the rest of the match." saidVarnum who defeated Kate Pinchbeck 6-2, 3-6. 7-6 (8-6) in a tough three-set tiebreaker. 
"Everyone just fought so hard, whether they were winning or los­ing, and we ended up playing really well." 
With the three victories this weekend, the Irish have won five in a row and are set to break into the top 10 before they travel to Wisconsin for the National Indoor Team Championships next Thursday. 
"l think we will be in the top lO," said Varnum, ''but most impor­tantly we will get a good seed next weekend at the National Indoors. Our goal is to make it past the second round this year." 
MEN'S SOCCER 

LaRose earns 3rd-team All-American honors 
Special to The Observer 
Connor LaRose, a three­year starter and captain of. the Notre Dame men's soccer team in 2000, was named to the National Soccer Coaches Association of America (NS CAA)/ adidas M e n • s College Scholar A 1 1 America T h i r d T e a m . 
LaRose was among 67 collegiate players honored after being named to the Men's Scholar Athlete North Central Regional first team. 
To be considered, a stu­dent-athlete must have attained junior status while achieving an overall cumula­tive grade-points average of 
3.300 (on a scale of 4.00),. In addition, he must have start­ed at least half of his team's contests during the past sea­son and been a major con­tributor on the field. 
LaRose, a midfielder/defender, was one of just two players to start all 17 games in 2000. He scored one goal and finished his Irish career with three goals and seven assists (13 points). LaRose helped Notre Dame record six shutouts as a team and register a 1.19 goals against average. In addition. he played in 68 games and made 59 starts during his four seasons. 


A pre-professional major enrolled in the College of Arts and Letters, LaRose earned a 
4.00 grade-point average (one of two men's soccer players) during the fall semester and owns a cumula­tive 3.449 grade index follow­ing seven semesters at the University. Teammate Dustin Pridmore, also a midfielder/defender, joined LaRose on the North Central Regional Scholar Athlete Team as a second-team hon­oree. 
Pridmore played in 16 games and earned 15 starts in his final season. One of the team's tri-captains in 2000, he scored a goal and dished off two assists for four points in his senior season. Pridmore, who played in 55 games and made 39 starts during his career, finished 
with  five  goals  and  five  
assists (15 points).  
A  finance  major  in  the  

Mendoza College of Business, he earned Dean's List distinc­tion following the 2000 fall semester after earning a 
3.533 grade-point average and has a cumulative 3.343 grade index. 
Stanford University's Ryan Nelsen was named the Male Scholar-Athlete of the Year and was joined by three other Cardinal players named to one of the three Scholar All­America teams. Former Stanford University head coach Bobby Clark was named head men's soccer coach at Notre Dame on Jan. 29 of this year. 
Please recycle The Observer. 

By RACHEL BIBER 
Spom Editor 
After falling to fifth-ranked 
Duke 6-1 on Saturday, the 30th­
ranked Irish men's tennis team 
regrouped for a convincing 7-0 
defeat over Iowa on Sunday. 
Notre Dame, which now .stands at 4-2, knew a victory 
over Duke on Saturday was a 
long shot. but did not bow down 
to the Blue Devils without giving 
them a scare. 
"I think we were a little disap­
pointed with Saturday's out­
come, but I don't think we were 
upset about our effort," Irish 
junior Casey Smith said. "We 
tried really hard and we played 
hard, but we just didn't get the 
points we needed to get, and 
that's the way this sport goes. I 
think everyone played well. and 
it was a learning experience." 
The Irish narrowly missed 
securing the doubles point 
against Duke to gain a 1-0 lead, 
but two Blue Devil comebacks at 
Nos. 2 and 3 doubles reversed 
the outcome. 
Smith and Luis Haddock­
Morales at No. 2 doubles and the 
pairing of Matt Daly and James 
Malhame at No. 3 doubles both 
saw early service breaks slip 
away, while Duke captured vic­
tory in both matches 8-5. 
Despite the missed opportuni­
ties, the 38th-ranked Irish duo of 
Talarico and Taborga pulled out 
an impressive win over Duke's 
25th-ranked team of Andres 
Pedroso and Ted Rueger by the 
score of 9-8 (10-8), after recov­
ering from a 2-5 deficit in the 
tiebreaker. 
"I felt like we were a lot better 
team doubles wise [than Duke]," 
Talarico said. "We've let a lot of 
teams just hang around with us, 
and we should be beating a lot of 
these teams a lot easier, but it just works out that way. We've had a couple of really close matches, but we've squeaked it out. I just think we need more discipline on both our parts, just to really make sure we stick to the basics, because that's all doubles is -basics really." 
Duke pulled ahead 2-0 when second-ranked Marko Cerenko downed Haddock-Morales 6-4, 6-1 at No. 3 singles. 

Irish freshman Matt Scott cut 
the lead in half with a 6-3, 6-4 
victory over the Blue Devil's Alex 
Bose at No. 6 singles, but Duke 
then won a pair of straight-set 
matches at Nos. 2 and 5 singles 
to clinch the win. 
The 6-1 victory was completed 
when Duke's 11th-ranked 
Ramsey Smith rallied to beat 
95th-ranked Casey Smith at No. 
1 singles, while Talarico was 
defeated at No. 4 singles in 
another three-set match. 
Although the opportunities 
were there for the Irish to come 
away with a historic upset, the 
squad was not disappointed. 
"They were a good team," 
Notre Dame head coach Bob ·Bayliss said. "I am disappointed we didn't capitalize on an oppor­tunity, but I think the better team won, because they won three matches in straight sets. I don't think you can say that because we didn't win the close matches we should have won. I'm not saying that at all. The opportunity to win was there, we 
just weren't quite up to it." 
The 7-0 drubbing of Iowa on 
Sunday was a positive turn­
around for the Irish, but one that 
was expected over the unranked 
opponent. However, Notre Dame 
also suffered a loss when 
Talarico went down in the No. 1 
doubles match with a sprained 
ankle, making his appearance in 
next week's matches against 
Michigan State and Kentucky 
questionable. 
Talarico stayed on the court 
with teammate Taborga for a 
come-from-behind victory over 
Iowa's Tyler Cleveland and 
Stuart Waters, boasting the 
duo's record to 5-1 in dual­
match play. 
The win completed the sweep 
of the doubles for the Irish, with 
JOE STARK/The Observer 

Irish Junior Andrew Laflin came out on top for the Irish Sunday with a win over Iowa at No. 6 sin­gles. Notre Dame beat Iowa 7-0, but fell to No. 5 Duke Saturday. 
the other two wins coming from Smith and Haddock-Morales at No. 2 and Daly and Malhame at No. 3. 
Notre Dame jumped out to a 4­0 lead by winning three straight­set matches at Nos. 4-6 singles. Brian Farrell rolled over his opponent 6-1, 6-0 at No. 4 sin­gles, while junior Andrew Laflin won at No. 6 singles 6-3, 6-0. Scott provided the clinching win 
Spend Valentine'j :l)lllf witft tfuMe yaa futte: 
Jerry Maguire and a Smoothie! 
Jerry Maguire Wednesday, February 14, 2001 7:30pm in Debartolo 102 
Free Adn1ission 
for the Irish with a 6-0, 6-1 win at No. 5 singles. 
Seventy-fifth ranked Taborga racked up another win for Notre Dame at No. 2 singles with a 6-2, 6-3 win, while Smith made it 6-1 with a huge victory over Iowa's Tyler Oeveland 7-6 (7-5), 6-4 in the No. 1 singles match. 
Cleveland defeated Irish All­American Ryan Sachire last year, and the match-up was also intensified due to the fact that Smith and Oeveland have a his­tory dated back to their junior playing days. 
Smith trailed 3-0 in the first set tiebreaker before winning seven of the last nine points to win the first set, and then led 5­1 in the third set before Cleveland pulled within 5-4. Cleveland overcame six match points, while Smith fought back to break his opponent's serve to complete the victory and improve his singles record to 5-1 on the year. 


"In a way, it's like I really wanted to win, but it's also diffi­cult to play someone I'm friends with, and that I've known since I was 12," Smith said. "It puts you in a weird situation because you want to win, but at the same time you feel bad when he's not playing well." 
Playing with a 5-1 lead in the second-set, the momentum seemed to switch to Cleveland's side of the court, but Smith was able to stay focused. 
"I didn't consciously get tight, I just didn't go out for the ball like I should have. When you are playing at No. 1, and you're playing at this level, you have to be playing at 100 percent the whole time. It's not like I dropped off a ton, but it's just that I let up a little bit, and that was enough for him to come back." 
Haddock-Morales rounded out the 7-0 blanking of Iowa with a comeback win at No. 3 singles by the score of 3-6, 6-3, 6-2. 

The first 100 people will receive goodie bags with a coupon for a 
·:, <iltf&iiilift~nd.edu 
free smoothie from Reckers after the movie. 
Sponsored by the Student Activities Office 
CROSSWORD  
ACROSS  32 Stoop parts  53 Like the best  
1 Port on Osaka  35 Month after Av  towels  
Bay  36 One with an  56 Apple variety  
5 Fess up  all-over tan  60 Diva's delivery  
10 "Hey, you!"  38_culpa  61 Not doing much  
14 "Since You Baby" (1956 hit)  39 Beyond tipsy 40 Sites for  disciplining 64 Take five  
15 Satchel on the  skirmishes  65 Type size  
field 16 Exit location, often 17 Mall locale 19 Germany's _ von Bismarck 20 Umpire's  41 Night school subj. 42 Broadbrim, e.g. 43 Marcos, the shoe collector 4-4 Golden rule preposition  smaller than pica 66 Summers in Rouen 67 Stadium near Shea 68 Katmandu's land 69 Enraptured  
decision 21 Slept like a hen  45 Mooring place 47 Susan of "L.A.  DOWN  
23 Manila envelope  Law"  1 Fuzzy fruit  
feature  48 John with an  2 Neighbor of  
26 Amtrak transportation  outrageous wardrobe  Yemen 3 Porgy's mate  
27 Tooth problem  49 "C6mo  4 Unlikely to cheat  """"-+---t-+-­ 
30 Means of  usted?"­ 5 Breathing  
escape  51 Sordid  problem  
6TheU.N.'s_  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  Hammarskjold 7 Cambridge sch.  
TWAS  aPrince in a  Puzzle by Sarah Kali.r  
0 H N 0  Borodin opera  29 Squid's cousin  50 Rockies resort  57 Webmaster's  
9 Pavarotti, e.g. 10 "To your health!"  31 Color, hippie-style  52 Israeli hard-liner Sharon  creation 58 Roulette bet  
11 Suit ender 12 Satisfy fully 13 Walked over ....+..+,.+,,.-t 18 Sans purpose ..,...--+,....._,..._... 22 Brewery kilns  33 Pasta topper 34 Locale for this puzzle's theme 36 Pierre or Henri, e.g .  53 Mrs. Roosevelt 54 Assayers' stuff 55 The "r of TCI  59 Reason to cram 62 Fictional sleeper 63 Boston subway inits.  
-,-+.,.,+,.+,-,+,,.,,t  24 Now poor, as  37 Mme., in Madrid  
relations  40 Please, in  Answers lo any three clues in this puzzle  
......_.....,...  25 Places to splash 27 Indian  Potsdam 44 Joyce  are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute).  
metropolis  masterpiece  Annual subscriptions are available for the  
A  .......-..........  28 Political pawn Gonzalez  46 What you will 48 Big birds  best of Sunday crosswords from the fast 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.  

-----, 
Tuesday, February 13, 2001 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
-----~-------------------------------------------------------------------­
FOURTH AND INCHES 
TOM KEELEY 


Fox TROT 
HOW Do "'l'OU kNOW WHbl THE SPA(;HETT1 I THINIC IS DONE? IF IT 
ST1c1<S To THE 
CEILING. 
BILLAMEND 

0 
OIC,NOW 
WHAT? I MEANT 
THROW ONE 
NooOLE. 
TYLER

THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 
Flon!lh. +hrow ovt o. +on of 
• , 9reo.1" 

I l 


.::t ~Q.'ie 1\\oLe. 
..



Valentine's Day is no time to be cheap. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
P.O. Box Q
and mail to: Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 

Name _____________________ 
Address ___________________ 
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON your ideas. Your talents will be THIS DAY: Peter Gabriel, recosmized. 000 Stockard Channing, Oliver Reed, VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Kim Novak, Henry Rollins, Get together with relatives. You Chuck Yeager, Jerry Springer, need to know them better. You Peter Tork can observe and learn a lot from 
Happy Birthday: You will be older family memben. 0000 quick to take action, which could LIBRA (Sepl 23-Oct. 22): You very well help you move into a may find it hard to sort out your prosperous position this year. emotional feelings. Take your You know wli.o you are and what time. It's better to be safe than you want. Recognition and lead­sorry. Be careful not to jump to ership will be yours if you are conclusions on hearsay. 000 compassionate, confident and SCORPIO (Od. 23-Nov. 21): patient. By helping others you You will be up in the clouds. will make unusual gains. Your Looks like that special person numbers: 3, 15, 19, 27, 31, 38 in your life wants to get 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): serious. You need to be honest You can stabilize your personal about your own intentions. Social life if you are willing to bend. Do events will be entertaining. 000 things that will give your partner SAGfITARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. the necessary assurance and sup­21): Don't be too quick to tell a port. Be sure to check for safety m friend your personal secrets. )'Our home before going out for You may find yourself in the the day. 000 midst of a scandal if you 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): become involved with someone You will be in tlie mood for love. you met through work. 000 Be careful not to lead someone CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan.19): on for the wrong reasons. You The people you hang out with may be playing with fire if you will introduce you to exciting trifle with someone's heart. 000 new mates. Romantic opportuni­
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): ties will lead to a serious and sta­You need inspirational activities. ble relationship. This is a great Your creative talent is just waiting day to get out and socialize. to explode. Find an outlet that 0000 willbe rewarding and productive. AQUARIUS ijan. 20-Feb. 18): You may even lie able to make Don't let a colleague bully you. some extra cash if you market You've worked hard, and your something you make. 000 ideas are good. Present them to 
CANCER (June 21•July 22): your boss and don't allow any­Don't let someone you live with one to take credit for your stop you from following your cre­achievements. 00 ative dream. Creative classes will PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): ~udevelop your talents. You need to experience different 
cultures. Your thirst for knowl­
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): edge will lead you to unusual Changes in your home will tum forms of entertainment. Don't out better than you first thought hesitate to sign up for seminars. possible. Don't be afraid to stand You really snould get out more. your ground if someone opposes 00000 
Birthday Baby: You are sensitive, emotional and caring. You present yourself instinctively and will always be noticed in a crowd. You are creative, entertaining and exceptional when it comes to problem-solving. 
(Need advice? Clteck out Eugenia's Web sites at aetroadvke.com, eugenial.aalcom, aatromate.com.) C 2001 Univenal l'rasSyndicate 

On the ball 
The Notre Dame men·s tennis team started offthe weekend slowly, falling to No. 5 Duke, but

PORTS 
ended strong with a win over Iowa Sunday 
page 22 
O
THE 

WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish look to jump in poll after 3-0 weekend 
By STEVE KEPPEL
• 
Sport,; Writer 
It was a great weekend for Notre Dame women's tennis as they went 3-0 and will most likely move into the top 10 this week. The Irish lost only one team point as they defeated Virginia Tech 7-0 on Friday, eighth-ranked Wake Forest 5-0 on Saturday and North Carolina 6-1. 
The weekend was once again highlighted by the play of Michelle Dasso as she improved her career record to 121-31, one victory shy of a record set just last year by Kelly Zalinski. 
Dasso led the way for the Irish in No. 1 dou­bles and singles and did not lose a match the entire weekend. The third-ranked all-American is on a roll this spring after impressive perfor­mances at each tournament. Dasso also plays a key role in team competition. 
"She's a huge asset to the team, she really gets us going and I don't think we would be the same r without her," said Dasso's doubles partner, 
Becky Varnum. 
Varnum, a junior, also played well this week­end. She went undefeated in both doubles and singles at the No. 2 spot behind Dasso. 
After beating Virginia Tech on Friday, the Irish prepared to take on Wake Forest and the No. 1 player in the country Bea Bielick. 
But, to Notre Dame's surprise, Beilick was out with bronchitis and the Demon Deacons had to forfeit matches at No. 3 doubles and No. 6 sin­gles to start off. 
Notre Dame once again rallied around the play of Dasso, as she won the last nine games of the No. 1 singles match and defeated sixth­ranked Janet Bergman 6-1, 6-0. 
Kimberly Guy also continued her solid play. as she and Katie Cunha wrapped up the doubles point with an 8-5 decision over Wake Forest's Jackie Houston and Aimee Smith and Guy later clinched the match for the Irish after a win at No. 5 singles over Smith. 
"They {Wake Forest] had to default two matches so we were up 2-0 right away," said junior Becky Varnum. "Everyone just played awesome and Michelle destroyed Janet KYLIE CARTER/The Observer 
Michelle Dasso Improved her career record to 121-31 with wins at No 1 doubles see TENNIS/page 21 and singles this weekend. The senior is Just one win short of a school record. 

FENCING 
No. 2 Irish knock off No. 1 Cardinal at Invite 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Sports Writer 
The No. 1 sign at the top of Grace Hall will burn a little brighter after the No. 2 men's fencing team knocked off No. l Stanford 18-9 this weekend at the Duke Invitational. 
The Irish should ascend to the top ranking in the next poll. 
"I guess it feels good," foil captain Ozren Debic said about the ranking. "It's not different that it was before because we are still the same team. It's a good boost going into the post season." 
The men's team will also ride a 41-match winning streak after beating North Carolina, Duke. Ohio State and Airforce in addition to the Cardinal. The Irish now own the fifth longest winning streak in Notre Dame history. The upset win against Stanford, however, was not a surprise, according to Debic. 
"We aH knew we were going to win," the 2000 foil runner­up said. 
"I am so proud of the team," Irish head coach Yves Auriol said in a prepared statement. "Beating Stanford is a great accomplishment and they will be more than a handful at the NCAAs but so will we." 
While the Irish staked their claim as the top men's team heading into the post-season, Oebic remains the No. 2 foilist in the country. 
He lost 5-3 to Stanford's 2000 NCAA Champ Felix Reichling. Last year, Reichling defeated Oebic 15-10 in the finals. Debic is confident, however, that he can beat Reichling at the NCAAs this year. 
"In the five-touch bout it goes so fast," he said. "The tempo of the bout is really fast. In any bout we fenced so far it could have gone both ways. He is good but it's just a matter of time [before I beat him] and hopefully it will be at NCAA.s. I know his style of fencing. It's definitely not the type of fencing I like because it's very physical and fast ­
see FENCING/page 20 


Athletes suit up for 
charity 
An athlete's schedule: 
7 a.m. -get up, go work out 
9 a. m. -noon • class 
Noon -lunch with the team 
1 p.m. -3 p.m. -class 

3 p.m. -6 p.m. -serve the community 
7 p.m. -practice 

Hold it a minute. Was it just me or did someone else catch the serving the com­munity part of that sched­ule? What's that all about? 
Well, for those of you who haven't kept an eye on Saint Mary's sports recent­ly, the Belles had a big win on Sunday. No, I don't mean Saturday's big basketball win, I mean Sunday. Well, what win happened on Sunday? 
On Sunday the Belles made winners out of area kids suf­fering from cancer. Angela Athletic Facility was converted from a basketball court and work-out facility into a place where dreams could come true for local families. 
The Valentine's Oncology party was a huge success because of both the athletic administration and the ath­letes who participated. 
Each Saint Mary's team had a table or an activity going on Sunday. No matter what these teams did during the season, they ranked No. 1 with the kids who attended that party. 
This is what athletics should really be about. Sure it's fun to watch athletic events and cheer for our team. But why? It's because athletics can bring us together as a commu­nity. 
The Saint Mary's student athletes, not only this week­end, but all year, show how athletics can bring a commu­nity together. They are all healthy (well, most of the time) women who are using their gifts to help those that are less fortunate than they are. 
Mind you, athletics is not all these Saint Mary's athletes 

see CHARITY/page 21 
• at Rutgers 

Men's Swimming Wednesday, 9 p.m. 
..... SPORTS • at Big East Championships Uniondale, N.Y. 
at Syracuse 
ATA Men's Swimming Thursday-Sunday
Wednesday, 7 p.m. 
a.c Big East Championships Uniondale, N.Y at Michigan State 
Thursday-Sunday Thursday, 7 p.m. 
GLANCE • • rf) 







