
Shakespeare without snoozing 
Dating blindly
This weekend's Romeo and Juliet production 
She's fun and he's cute, but how jar does skin 

Wednesday
delivers a hilarious performance without 
color determine who we date at Notre Dame? 
putting non-English majors lo sleep. 
Viewpoint . page 11 
FEBRUARY 28, 
Scene . page 12 
2001 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXIV NO. 97 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

Costly Madeleva renovation prompts new plans 
By MOLLY McVOY 
Saint Mary's Editor 
In the next several years, Madeleva Hall will more than likely not exist on Saint Mary's cam­pus. 
As part of the Master Plan. the College has decided to build a ne,v classroom building that will replace Madeleva, and probably lead to the removal of' the old building. 
"As we started to determine the cost of all of our options, the dollars per square foot for renovating 
The new facility will also be the home for the Center for lntercultural Leadership. a result of a Lilly Foundation grant the College received this year. 
"With the center for Intercultural Leadership in the building, it became obvious we had to have an addition," Dennis said. "It [the renova­tion! just got unmanageable." 
In addition to cost considerations, building a new structure will relieve some of the logistical issues a long renovation would cause. 
"With any moderate amount of renovation, 
half of Madeleva would have 
to be shut down for a year," Madeleva got as high as build­"What we're planning is Dennis said. "Where do we ing a new one," Keith Dennis, 


put all those classes?" 
a modern office and

vice president of finance and 
The new building will likelyadministration said. classroom building. " be located north west of The original goal of this where the science hall is cur-
phase of the Master Plan was 
John Delee rently located, but plans for to renovate Madeleva to cor­the new building have not yet 
rect some of the problems with director of facilities atthe College be en drawn. A meeting is 
the building. Several fire codes needed to be met and plumbing and air circu­lation were a problem. Currently, Madeleva docs not have an adequate air exchange sys­tem, according to Dennis. In addition, the size of the facultv offices needed to be increased. 
"The oflices in [MadelevaJ tend to be 95-100 square feet in size," Dennis said. "The appro­priate size is typically 150 square feet. Our goal was to make every office 150 square feet with a window." 
Currently, the classrooms in Madeleva are used for most of the College's liberal arts class­es as well as several science and math courses. 
"What we're planning is a modern office and classroom building," said John DeLee, director of facilities at the College. "It will have modern ventilating and lighting systems." 
planned with MPA, the archi­tectural firm hired for the construction. MPA, run by Bill Coleman, also designed the plans for Regina Hall. 
Although the fate of Madeleva has not yet been decided, Dennis thinks it is most likely that the building will be torn down. 
"The other dilemma is what to do with Madeleva-," Dennis said. "It could come down or could get converted to a multipurpose cen­ter. Probably the inost likely outcome will be to tear [Madeleva] down." 
In addition to the Madeleva renovations, this stage of the Master Plan calls for converting the dining hall into a student activities build­ing. A new structure will be connected to serve 
see MADELEVA/page 4 

Bederman: Media presents unrealistic image of women 
By ELIZABETH ZANONI 
News Wrirer 
History Professor Gail Bederman led a symposium Tuesday night entitled "[mages of Women Throughout History" in the basement of Cavanaugh Hall to an all female audience. 
The discussion commenced after viewing a short film entitled Killing Us Softly 3: Advertising and the Image of Women. The film, hosted by specialist Jean Kilborne, is a study of gender representa­tion in advertising and the media. 
In the lilm Kilborne recog­nizes that advertising, a 180 billion dollar a year industry, sells not only products, but also values. attitudes, con• cepts of love and sex and the desire for normalcy. 
For women, the mass media focuses primarily on their physical appearance and presents an unrealistic and ideali:.t..ed image for young impressionable view­ers. Although these images are "impossibly perfect," a core belief in American cul­ture remains that if women try hard enough, they can attain a perfect body type. 
Kilborne presents contem­porary ads in newspapers and magazines that depict women in contradictory fash­ions. Although women are very often portrayed as sex objects and they are also shown to be childlike and passive. In both cases women are portrayed as powerless, said Kilborne in her film. 
''She makes a strong case," said Bederman at the end of 
see MEDIA/page 6 


Black Law Students Association questions race and death penalty 
the race of the victim, according to Kammen.
By ERIN LaRUFFA 

"If the victim is black, the case is more likely
News Writer 

by a huge margin to be a capital case," Kammen said. "The race of the defendant also 
In perhaps an unusuai" way of celebrating has tremendous significance. There is a vain Black History Month, Notre Dame's Black Law of racism that pervades many, many jurisdic­Students Association brought together four tions." white males Tuesday night to discuss racism in Rice cited statistics indicating that while 
America. African American males 
These four men -two of make up 6 percent of the them lawyers and two of them "We try to be colorblind. general U.S. population, 43 
law school professors -percent of death row inmates
We try to have a

addressed race as it relates to come from this demographic. · the criminal justice system in standardfor when we "You can't deny something a panel discussion entitled will ask for the death is going on," said Rice. "The Disproportionate "African American crime is
penalty and when we

Application of the Death not substantially higher than 
Penalty on African will not." their rate in the population.
Americans." It's not disproportionate." 
"We should do more things The one death penalty
Christopher Toth 

like this at the law school." advocate on the panel, St.
St. Joseph County prosecutor
said Richard Garnett, the Joseph County prosecutingNotre Dame law school profes-attorney Christopher Toth. sor who moderated the discussion, disagreed with that assessment. 
The anti-death penalty Garnett was joined by "We trv to be colorblind. We try to have a two other abolitionists, Speedy Rice of standard° for when we will ask for the death Gonzaga Law School and Richard Kammcn, a penalty and when we will not," Toth said. 
capital litigator with over 20 years of experi­Prosecutors in St. Joseph County, according ence in death penalty cases. to Toth, will typically ask for the death penaltyOne of the most significant factors in a pros­ecutor's decision to seek the death penalty is see lAW/pagc 4 
page 2 

The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, February 28, 2001 

INSIDE COLUMN 
THIS WEEK IN SOUTH BEND 


United by Spirit 
I am a Protestant at a Catholic institution. 
Most of my friends at this University are 
Catholic. My girlfriend is Catholic. It seems nor­
mal to me. 

As a matter of fact, when I was deciding to 
altend Notre Dame, it did 

not even cross my mind that 
?¥\::'i'?

there was much ofa differ­
•.'.'..''.·.•··•··... •.·...· ....
...·r.:,.·C.j·•·••.·••.·
ence between Protestants 
and Catholics. 
/--~-,
-~ 
. .. j 
i. ....... ..

Much to my surprise. I arrived on campus to find that many Catholics consid­er Protestantism to be some foreign religion. 


Over the past two years, I 
Nate Phillips 
have had multiple people 

tell me that Catholics have a 
better chance of getting into 
heaven than Protestants. 1 Copy Editor 
have had Catholics remark 
that they do not know too 

much about my "religion." 
This is absurd. Statements like these are com­pletely missing the true point of Christianity. 
I try to go to the Basilica as often as possible on Sunday mornings. As an Episcopalian. I know the service by heart and feel spiritually satisfied at the end of the worship. 
Granted. I do not believe that the Virgin Mary was born without original sin. and I do not pray to the Saints. I do not believe that the Pope is infallible, and I have never been raised to believe in Purgatory or the importance of confession. l do not think that the bread and wine is trans­formed into the body and blood of Christ during Communion. 
But, really, how defining are these dogmatic differences? Is my faith really that different because I do not practice all of the Catholic tradi­tions? 
We are all Christians. We all believe in the message of Christ and we all have a faith in the Iloly Trinity. We all read and learn from the same Bible. 
I have no trouble or qualms with the Catholic traditions. They arc important to the Catholic church, and they help people feel a closer con­nection with God. 
I realized alter I came here that the rift between the sects ol' Christianity exist not solely because of the differences in tradition, but more so in the biases that people have towards each other. We too often become caught up in distinc­tions. and consequently are blinded to the simi­larities between groups. 
We need to appreciate our common ground. 
In the spirit of Ash Wednesday, I encourage Protestants and Catholics to put their differences aside and to focus on the true and substantive clements ofChristianity. 
J\s Brothers and Sisters in Christ, we need to exemplify the Christian message in our thoughts and in our actions. We need to come together. and abstain from judging others because of dog­matic differences. 
Healize the true message of Christ; cherish the similarities between the diverse sects of Christianity. Understand that people come to God in different ways and manners. Despite differ­ences in tradition, the same Christian spirit puls­es within the hearts of Catholics and Protestants alike. 
We need to hold each other up. We need to walk hand-in-hand in our spiritual journey. We need to come together with respect as one Christian body. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Maribel Morey Laura Kelly Nate Phillips 
Graphics 
Myra McGriff 
Katy Hall 
Sports 
lab Tech 
Brian Kessler 
Peter Richardson 
Viewpoint L1uren Beck 

The Ob,crver (USPS S9? 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday cxcep• Jurin11 ,xam and vaca,ion period,. The Observer is a member of ,he A,mciared Pre". All reproduction right, ,re reserved. 
Wednesday  Thursday  Friday  Saturday  
. Event: St. Joseph County  . Concert: ND Symphony  . Event: Bengal Bouts  . Fundraising: March  
Tree Sales Program, the  Orchestra, Washington  finals, Joyce Center. 8 p.m.  Miracle Auction, Century  
Soil and Conservation  Hall, 8 p.m.  . Event: Flipside­ Center, 5:30 p.m.  
District, all day.  . Movie: 'The Sixth  Paintball. Michiana  . Event: Notre Dame  
. Meeting: Rotary Club of  Sense," De Bartolo 155,  Paintball, vans depart  llockey Game, Western  
South Bend Weekly  10:30 p.m.  from Library Circle at 8:30  Michigan vs Notre Dame,  
Meeting, Century Center,  . Movie: "Unbreakable,"  p.m.  Joyce Center, 7 p.m.  
12:00 p.m.  DeBartolo 101, 10:30 p.m.  

OUTSIDE THE DOME Compiled from U-Wire repons 
U. Florida students fight for victim's amends 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. 


-and how much property the sur­
University of Florida law students vivors lost during the war, among

will begin helping Holocaust sur­

other factors. 
vivors on Friday claim portions of 

"Deciding which form is appropri­
$6.25 million from class action ate for the survivor is where we 

suits settled during the past two 

come in," said Neiman, a third year 
years. 

law student. 
As part of the Claims Conference 

The volunteers will undergoAgainst Nazi Germany project, intensive training this week to 
more than 50 law students will vol­learn about the Holocaust and the 

unteer their time the next few 

lawsuits, then will travel to West months to help survivors fill out 
Palm Beach on Friday for their first 
appropriate forms so they can 

the German government and open house. receive financial awards. 
German corporations. Survivors are The open houses have been coor­"[The survivors] have a lot of 
eligible for awards ranging from dinated by Jewish Family Services questions." project coordinator Jeff $2,500 to $7,500 as compensation in South Florida. Others may be Neiman said. "We'll try to answer for their work and lost property. coordinated by centers in Tampa
them." 

There are multiple forms to com­and Sarasota. Recent settlements stem from plete. depending on where the sur­The survivors must also relive cases against the Swiss Bank, vivor worked -either in a concen­their experiences from 1939. which which Neiman said, and a suit with tration camp, ghetto or work camp many of them haven not done. 
UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH FLORIDA 
Friends remember student 
TAMPA, Fla. 
The hallway outside a memorial service Monday was scattered with pictures of a young woman enjoying life, a collage of time with friends and laughing in a bathtub. Inside, with lights dimmed and candles lit, friends of late student Jennifer Borg. 24, endured a quiet tribute to those memories as more than 60 people filled the room. Dean Patricia Burns recently informed students that Borg had committed suicide. Deacon Joseph Krzanowski said Borg is someone many v.,ill never forget. "She had an impact, a desire to be a nurse and to care for others," Krzanowski said. "That is part of the legacy she leaves." One of Borg's fellow classmates said she grew close to her during a nursing convention in Daytona. Borg offered her classmates a place to stay when they couldn't find a room. The condominium they stayed in had two king-size beds and one pullout bed. Students, staff and faculty embraced one another as they shared memories of Borg. "Jennifer would not want us to grieve but rather to remember her as a great friend." 
MICHIGAN STATE 
Administrators refuse 'Pie' request 
EAST LANSING. Mich. 
When the sequel to the 1999 blockbuswr "American Pie" hits theaters this summer, don't expect any rder­ences to Michigan State University -regardless ol' tlw fact that the university was represented several times in the original film. Earlier this month, Universal Studios sought permission to represent MSU in a short .scene in the sequel, titled "Secret Disguise," but the request was rejected by university o11icials. Terry Denbow, university spokesman, said the scenes did not appropriawly repre­sent MSU. "It was a classroom setting that was not deemed appropriate or reflective of our classrooms or our students," said Denbow, also the vice president for university relations. "Not all identity and use of your name is good public relations or advances the appropri­ate image of our students. But Denbow said he didn't know if filmmakers asked permission to reference MSU in the original film. which grossed $230 million world­wide. Denbow went on to comment that the University turns down similar requests on a regular basis. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

AccuWeuther'"forecusl for daytime conditions und high temperntures 
The AccuWeathe~ forecast for noon, Wednesday, Feb. 28. 
H L 
Thursday ~ 39 21 Friday ~ 37 23 Saturday ~ 39 25 

FRONTS: 

~ .A-A. ......-..r
Sunday ~ 40 26 
C> 2001 AccuWeather, Inc. COUJ WAf-lM STATIONAHY 
®.,..,© D D D D D D 
•r• A•ln T~a1orm• Flu,rMI ¦ Snow lo• Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy

Monday Q 42 25
··:··,:: 

Atlanta 64 52 Las Vegas 61 44 Ponland 52 37 Baltimore 55 43 Memphis 68 40 Sacramento 59 46 Boston 47 38 Milwaukee 31 6 St. Louis 52 20

q_Q,~9'9Q (f ~ u 
Chicago 38 9 New York 41 39 Tampa 78 63
Showers T~sforms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pr, Cloudy Cloudy 
Houston 78 64 Philadelphia 54 43 Washington DC 59 44
VI• Associated Press OraphimNet 

Wednesday, February 28, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Women doctors share professional success secrets 
By ANNE MARIE MATTINGLY 
News EJiror 
Where there is a will. there will be a way for female physicians of the 21st century. said five women doctors at a panel discussion Tuesday. 
"If it's something you love. then it's always going to be possible, because you want to do it," said Dr Madeline Lewis. a family practice physician at 
Memorial Hospital who believes that mission. vision and passion are the keys to a successful career. "If you don't see the option _oi:,t there that you want, you can make 1t. 
But despite their optimism, these female physicians admitted that it's tough to make it alone. 
"Make sure it's what vou want and 
that you have faith in yourself. You 
really have to believe you· want to do 
this," said Dr. Jody Wiseman, a family 
practice resident. "You need people to 
be them for you and to make it known 
when you need people." 
Dr. Ellyn Stecker, who has been in a 
private solo family prac ticc for 18 
years, noted that a woman doctor's 
boyfriend or husband in particular 
must be supportive. 
"Having a Oexible partner is crucial," 
she said. That . exibility, together with 
innovation, is what will help female 
physicians to successfully manage the 
delicate balance between their prac­
tices and personal lives, said the pan­
elists. This balance is particularly 
important for women who hope to 
raise children while continuing to 
work. 
"You have to work within the sys­
tem," said Dr. Rebecca Moskwinski, 
who works at Notre Dame's depart­
ment of health services. Moskwinski academic year but not during the summer. is just one of many possibilities· for female physi­cians who want to have a family. 

Lewis urged female pre-med­ical students to consider taking time off as a viable option even if doing so will delay taking board examina­tions. 
"Do what you think is the best thing for you," she said. "Sometimes you have to make your own way." 
Stecker said 
that the Family 
Medical Leave 
Act (FMLA). 
which took 
MARY AIMNOVITCH/The Observer
effect in 1993. 

Practicing female doctors spoke to Notre Dame pre-med students at a panel Tuesday concerning
has helped 
female physi­their futures as women in medicine. 
cians do just that. The FMLA provides 12 weeks of unpaid, job-pro­tected leave for mothers and fathers upon the birth or adoption of a child. But FMLA isn't a perfect solution. said Lewis. 
"It's really great on paper. You have a legal right," she said. "[But] some­times you have to work for that right." 
And according to Wiseman, employ­ers. efforts to protect their own inter­es ts are an issue not only when a 

said that her position in college health. female physician becomes pregnant, which allows her to work during the but sometimes before she is even 
offered a job. 

"They look at you as a woman inter­vie wing and expect you to want to work part-time," she said, noting that employers are often surprised to hear that she prefers full-time employment. Wiseman also said that when she tells and interviewer of her preference, that person often assumes she want to work full-time only temporarily and asks for how long she intends to do so. 
Ultimately, success as both mother 
and doctor will depend on a woman's ability to accept and adapt to unexpect­ed circumstances, said Moskwinski, who described herself as "a real career person" prior to the birth of her first child during her residency. 
"I'll take six weeks· off and I'll be right back to work," she said of her expectations at the time. Instead, she gave birth to twins and had to take four months of leave. 
"Things don't always work out the way you plan," she said. "You have to make do." 
................ ................................................................................
.. .. ... . .. .. .. .. ...... .. .... .. ... . ... .... .. .. .... .. .... .. .. .. .. ...... .... .... ........
.. .. .. .. .. .. .. ' .. .. .. .... .. .... . . .. . . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ... . .. . . .. .. .. .. .. .... .. .. 
.......... ·• ....
•• .••. •• ..•• • ' • •· •• ..•·
.. .. '. ...... •• • • . ·• .•·. ·• 
.. • • •• •• .. 
•· 
•· .. •·

•· 
•· 

•· 
•• •• •• ••..


·• .·•. •· 
..·• ..•• •·· •·
.. ••·• ... .•· •• •. .• ••• • ••...•.•
·• •• • • •• 
·• 
.. ..
•· 
~= :: ~3~ ~2-s·~~ ~o-: 1= ;~ ;::;~= ~; ~: :; !; ~= != :: !: .. . . .. .
.. . . . ... ' .. . . ... . ......................... .. . .......................... 
·• ... • .a .. . ·• ·• ·• •· ..•· •· •· •· ·• .. •· ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
.. ... ..........................•· ................... • • • • • • •• •• •• • • • •••••••••••••••••••••
. 

.... . . .. . . .. ...................................... .. . . .. .............................. 
·····a.. ··licc1tic,n·s ·for·· ·· ···· .. ·· ·· ···· 
.. .. .. PP.. .............................. 
:~ ~~ ~~n~i :9'.b:c;('.~si.i9. ~9~ftii~tl ~~ ~~ 
.. .... .... . . .... ...' .................. 
·· •· af ,h·e· SUB·office·•·•···•· · 
.. .. . .. .... .. .. .. .... .. .. .. .,...... 
.. ........... ' .... .... .. .. ... . .. 
···· clue ·3~2 •· •· •· •· ··•· · 
..... . .. .... .... .........' ......
.. .. .. .. .. .... .. . . .. ..•... 
•• .. .
•• •• . .. ·• •• •· •· •• ·• •· •· •• •· •·
•• ·• ·• •• ..•• ..•· ..•· ..•· •· •• ..
•• .. •• •• .. ·• •· •· •· •· •· ·• .. •• .. .. • • .. ·• •• • • •· •• ·• •· ••
..•• •• .... •• ..•• .. . •· ..•· . . . .•·•·
•• .. •• .. .. ·• . •· 
. ..... .. .. .. •· ..........................
.. .. .. .. .. .. .... . . .. . . .. .. •· .. 
.. • ...... .... .. .. .. .... • .. •· ....................
.. .. .. .. .... .. .... .... ...' .... .. .. .. .. 
.. ............ •· .... .. .. .. .. .. .. .... 
········ • .. ··.. ·· • 
.. ·• ·• ·• •• •• •• •· • • •· ·• •• •· •· •• ·• •· •• •• .. •• •· .. •· • • • • • • • • •· •• •· •· •·
•• •• •· •• • •• .... •• ·• •• ·• •· ·• •· ·• •· •· .••. •·• • ·• •• •• •· .••. •• ..·• •• ••..
•• ·• • •• •· •• •· •· ·• •· •• •• •· •• •• •• ·• •• •• •• ·• ·• ·• ·• •· •• •· •· •· •· ·• •• •· •· •• ·• •· •· •• •• •• •• •• •· •· • • •• • • ·• •· .. •· •·
•• •• •· •• •• ·• ·• •• •• •• ·• •· ·• •· ·• •· .. •• •• •• •• •• •· •• •• •• • • •· •• •• •· •·
·• •• .. •·
.
.. ·• . 
•• •· ·• •• •·
•• ..•• • • •· 

.. .. .. ... . .. . . .. .. 
• • • • • • .... ••
•••• •• •• ..
.. 
...
. 
•· •• ·• ·•
•••• •· 
•• • • .. 
•• ..•• ••.. 
• • . .
.. •• • •• •• •• •·
. • •

. •• •• •• •• •· •· •• •· •· •• •• ••..
•• .•·. ..•·• • •· ••·• ••• • .. .. 
•· •• ·• •• •· •• •· •· •• •·
..•· ·• •· •· •• •• 
page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 28, 200 I 
Madeleva 
nline.
continued from page l 
as the dining hall. 

At their weekend meeting, the Board of Trustees approved the schematics of the buildings and gave the go-ahead for con­struction documents. 

''Our goal is to have the construction documents done this summer," Dennis said. 
No firm goals are set for breaking ground on either structure bocausc construction plans and fundraising are not yet com­pleted. 
Law 
continued from page l 

in four types of murder cases: multiple murders, murders of children, murders of police officers and murders involv­ing torture. 
"This is our policy -bar• ring other extraordinary cir­cumstances," said Toth. "You have Lo be sure you don't apply the death penalty so there's insidious racism against blacks." 
Hacial discrimination, how­ever, is not the only problem Kammen and Rice have with capital punishment. Other factors, such as the economic status of the defendant, also determine whether district attorneys seek the death penalty, Kammen said. 
"We in this country don't kill rich people," he said. "If 
O.J. Simpson had been O.J. Jones, that probably would have been a capital case." 
Political considerations also play a role in decisions to seek the death penalty, Kammen said. 
"You cannot understand the death penalty in American unless you understand one thing-it is driven by politics," he said. "The case that becomes the death penalty case is symbolic, and in that sense it is driven by politics." 
But the death penalty is just one problem in the criminal justice system, according to Hice, who added that 50 per­cent of the U.S. prisoners arc African American males. 
"I think this system is cor­rupt. I think it is corrosive to our society. And I think it's the death penalty that drives the corruption," he said. 
Another underlying factor in this debate over racism is Lhe more basic question of whether capital punishment is right even when applied fair­ly, the panelists all pointed out. 
"We've got a flawed death penalty system, and racism is a big part of it," said Rice. "It's just got to be gone if we want to have dignity in the criminal justice system." 
Toth, on the other hand, believes the death penalty is a proper form of punishment for some crimes. 
"There are some crimes that ... show such as callous indifference to life, the only punishment that rise to that level is the death penalty," he said. 
In fact, he added, some crimes are so heinous that "the only way you can show respect for human life" is to seek the death penalty. Toth also said that capital punish­ment does deter some mur­ders. a contention with which death penalty opponents dis­
agree. 
"When we talk about sanc­tions, we have to understand thal it's not the death penalty or nothing," Kammen said, explaining that life in prison without parole is often an option prosecutors can seek. 



surprise. Ask your doctor to check it and help you keep it in check to reduce your risk of heart attack and stroke. ~ 
American Heart .. Learn more at www.americanheart.org Association.V 
or call 1-800-AHA-USA1. fight,ng Heart Disease and Stroke 
T. S. E. 
Student Government 
proudly presents the volunteer opportunity of a lifetime: 
Introducing the Transportation Service for the Elderly 
Features 1.) Volunteer work around the student's schedule 2.) No daily, weekly, or monthly commitments 3.) Volunteer as much or as little as you like 4.) As little as one hour ofservice each time you volunteer 5.) Looks great on resumes for graduate schools and 
employers 6.) Helps you help others 
Purpose 1.) To provide transportation for the elderly people of South Bend to and from such needed places as doctor's appointments, grocery stores, family emergencies, etc. 2.) To give Notre Dame students a way of reaching out to their community. 
Please attend an informational meeting on Thursday March 1st, 8:30pm in the Montgomery Theater of LtiFun to learn how you can help your community. 


LOOKING FOR ACOUSTIC.ACTS ;/TO PLAY20?){INJJtf!lSETS
, ' ( ' ..... ' . . . ' 
...A~tGN-UPS JJE~Jt:~_¥ltf~'-M!~ 2 AT .\9AM 
OUTSlDE· 'RM::SOO'>.,LikFORTUNE
0· . . • 

ALL illlt'..'WELCON:i.fOPARTICIPAtTE 
.' . .. .. • ,· ' ,., >· \ ' 


ATION 
Wednesday, February 28, 200 l 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES 
page 5 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Fire ants invade Australia: 
Dangerous South American l"ire ants have invaded one of Austrnlia's l,.rgest cities, and officials are concerned the insects will migrate farther. The lire ant has a savage bite that can kill people who suffer allergic reac­tions to its venom, the Queensland State Dnpartment of Primary Industries said Tuesday. The ant can also cause root damage to some crops, tho department said. 
Tank shell kills Palestinian man: 
Nairn Badarin. a Palestinian man was killed when a tank shell hit his house, a Palestinian boy was shot in the head and three Israeli workers were wounded in an ambush Tuesday in separate incidents in the West 13ank and Gaza Strip. Badarin, 55, was killed instantly in the West Bank town of Hamalla. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Arizona drug tunnel found: Federal agents discovered a 25-foot dirt tunnel that was apparently being used to smuggle drugs across the Mexican border, and seized 840 pounds or cocaine from the Arizona house at one end of the passage. The crude, hand-dug tunnel -fitted with a string of bare electric bulbs -runs from the Nogales house to the sewer system, which leads in turn to a dry streambed along the Mexican border called the Nogales Wash. Customs agents searched the home and discovered 198 cocaine bricks valued at $6.5 million wholesale. 
California gun law effective: 
California's 1990 law banning the sale of hand­guns to convicted criminals reduces the risk they will commit violent, gun-related crimes in the future. according to a ne,v study. A misde­meanor record is now the most common reason for denying handgun purchases in the nation's most populous state. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
IU computer security compromised: 
Like a pirate burying treasure, a Web surfer in Sweden used an unprotected Indiana University server to store a cache of downloaded music and video files, uncovering in the process a list of more than 3,000 student names and identifi­cation numbers. University officials believe the student file was removed from the server acci­dentally, but IU police are investigating the inci­dent and the FBI has been notified. The server was left unprotected after it crashed and the person who brought it back up failed to proper­ly configure the server's security. 
Market Watch 2/27 
Dow 
10,636.88 -5.65
]ONES 
Composile
Same: 
ill1: 
Volume: 220 .• 

--NIA• 
Nasdaq: 2,207.82 -100.68 S&P 500: 1,257.94 -9.71 
TOP5VOLUMELEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY  %CHANGE  $GAIN  !'RICE  
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  -7.'11  -2.0i,  24.00  
NASDAQ IOOSIIAR(QQQJ  ./,.04  -3. I;  4'}.00  
MICROSOFT CORP (MSfn  .-0.Jl  -0.lK  W..lH  
JDS UNl~HASE UDSU)  -14.76  -4.81  27.81  

MEXICO 


AFP Photo 

Zaptista leader Subcomandante Marcos is surrounded by media and supporters Feb. 27, as he prepares to continue leading the Zapatista march from Oaxaca in southern Mexico. They expect to reach Mexico City March 11. 
Zapatista rally for native rights 
Associated Press 
ORIZABA 
Zapatista commanders called for a full role for Indians in a "different Mexico" as enthusiastic crowds greeted them Tuesday during the rebels' cross-country march for Indian rights. 
More than 5,000 sup­porters of the Zapatista National Liberation Army hung banners and cheered as the rebel leaders appeared before the cathe­dral in Orizaba, about 120 miles southeast of their destination, Mexico City. 
"We want to fight for a different Mexico with room for all of us," said Comandante Ismael, one of the 24 Zapatista leaders making the 15-day jour­ney. "It is a disgrace for the country that it is only now recognizing the rights of the Indians." 

The marchers left the rebels' jungle stronghold in the southern state of Chiapas on Saturday. In Mexico City, they will lobby for the passage of an Indian rights bill for greater autonomy for Indian communities. 
Passage of the bill is one of three conditions the rebels say must be met before they will renew stalled peace talks with the government. 
The Zapatistas took up arms for two weeks in January 1994 to fight for the rights of poor Indians. The rebellion was followed by six years of conflict between pro-government paramilitary groups and rebel sympathizers in Chiapas. 
The rebels' first stop Tuesday was the city of Tehuacan, wher.e Indian leader Subcomandate Marcos told 3,000 support­ers that the nation's Indians will "no longer take orders from anyone." 
The caravan has been peaceful -thanks in part to security provided by the government. President Vicente Fox has said he welcomes the march. 
Orizaba officials banned sales of alcohol Tuesday, while 150 volunteers formed a "peace belt" to guard the caravan, the government news agency Notimex reported. 
A contingent of rebel supporters from Italy said Tuesday they would con­tinue in the march despite the disappearance of six of the buses they had rented. 
"We'll walk if neces­sary, said Federico Marianni, spokesman for the European nongovern­mental organization "Enough Already." 

Bush supports Cuban trade embargo 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The Bush administration probably won't support relaxation of the trade embargo against Cuba beyond the narrow opening for food sales that Congress created last year, Agriculture Secretary Ann Veneman said Tuesday. 
Under legislation passed last fall, the U.S. government will be forbid­den to finance Cuban purchases of American food, a restriction 
demanded by lawmakers opposed to 

ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -6.46 21.69
-I.•~ 

___________________ . ____ . ____ •• ~u~'.~:P~~~id:~t"Fi?.l Castro, .T~i1 
government also is barred from sub­sidizing such exports. 
"What the Congress did last year provided some opening of the door to Cuba," Veneman told a meeting of state agriculture commissioners. But she said the administration will not support "a lot of changes" in the leg­islation. 
U.S. farm groups want to ease the financing restrictions, which Cuba says will make purchases almost impossible. 
When the legislation passed last fall, hundreds of thousands of Cubans marched in Havana to protest the restrictions. 
The Bush administration is work­ing on rules to implement the legisla­tion, which also will allow the gov­ernment to begin subsidizing food and medicine sales to Iran. Libya, North Korea and Sudan. 
The government has licensed a 
U.S. shipper, Crowley Liner Services of Jacksonville, Fla., to transport food and agricultural goods to Cuba. Two U.S. companies have signed agreements to sell agricultural prod­ucts to Cuba in exchange for sugar revenue. according to the U.S.-Cuba Trade and Economic Council. 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 28, 200 I 
43rd Collegiate Jazz Festival begins today 
bands snlected to this year's
Special 10 the Observer 
festival begin Friday at 7:30 
p.m. in Washington llall. The

The nation's oldest colle­
session will end with the tra­

giatn jazz festival, now in its ditional Judge's Jam, featur­
43rd year, returns to the 
ing saxophonist and l'lutistUniversity of Notre Dame Lew Tabackin, trumpeter

tonight, Friday and Saturday, Conte Candoli, pianist Joanne
featuring 10 collegiate bands 
Brackeen. bassist Bichard

competing bpfore a panel of 
Davis and drummer Terri
distinguished 
Lyne Carrington.
judges. 

Collegiate A judge's clinic
Jazz bands pcr­
at 2 p.m. Saturday

l'orm ing in this Jazz Festival 
in the Notre Dame vnar's festival rep-. Today at 7:30 Band Building will ;·escnt Boise State 

feature free

University, Central p.m. in Lafortune instruction ses-Michigan 
. Friday at 7:30 p.m. sions by the panel
University, Florida 

in Washington Hall of judges. The
State University, 
Saturday night

Loyola University . Saturday al 2 p.m. 
session will begin

of New Orleans, in the Band Building at 7:30 p.m. inNorthern Illinois 
Washington l;lall,

U 11 i v e r s i t Y , . tickets sold at the 
to be followed by

Southern Illinois door the awards cere-
University, 
many.

Lawrence Universitv. the 
Tickets will be sold at theUniversity of Northern Iowa door. For Notre Dame, Saintand the University of Texas. 

Mary's College and Holy
Brownsville. 
Cross College students and

The Notre Dame Big Band, faculty, tickets are $4 for theunder the direction of Father Friday night session and $2
Georgr. Wiskirchen, also will 
f'or tho Saturday night ses­
appear. 
sion. An all-session pass may

Sponsored by the Notre 
be purchased for $5. 

Dame Student Union Board, Admission for the general
the festival off1cially begins 
public is $8 for the Fridaytoday at 7:30 p.m. in the night session and $5 for theLaFortune Student Center 

Saturday night session. An

Ballroom with Proview Night, 
all-session pass may be pur­

featuring a performance by chased for $12. Children
Notre Dame Jazz Band II. 
under 12 are admitted free to

The performances by the 
all festival activities. 


'"·--··~---u::_~ ~ 
Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra Wi~a~:1~ 1~~~~:~; 
Ludwig 'Uan Beethoven 
Pimo Concerto No.3 m C mmor H-Eun Byun, piano 

Symphony No.8 in F major Wolfgan_g Amadws Mozart Overture toLlon G1avanr11 Recitative and aria from Cosi fan rum Paula R>.e Knmey, soprano 

Thursday March 1, 2001 Sp.m. Washington Hall Free Admission 
For add~,onal information call 631-6201 



Media 

continued from page 1 
the Kilborne's movie. Bederman began her talk by asking her audience if they saw themselves affected by advertising. Although Bederman, a professor of women's history, referred to herself as a "professional feminist," she admitted to still being affected by the media's images. "It becomes so per­suasive because it is encom­passing," said Bederman. 
The question sparked a con­versation between attendees that touched on a widr. vari­ety of subjects p0rtaining to the image of women in the media and on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses. 
Bederman listened and responded to campus issues such as the increased number of female students with eating <lisorders, the problems with gender relations. and the neg­ative stereotypes of Saint Mary's women. 
More than one participant pointed to the irony in the decision of Saint Mary's to 

prohibit the Vagina MARY AIMONOVITCH/The Observer Monologues, a play celebrat­Media's portrayal of women flows into other aspects of a ing femininity, while hosting 
woman's life. Although Gail Bederman, a professor of 
the Keenan Review, which 
women's history, referred to herself as a "professional femi­
often slaps Saint Mary women 
nist," she admitted to still being affected by the media.
with many debilitating stereo­types. . 
els for the top ranked Beduman imploring her
Another member of the 
women's basketball game audience to continue commu­audience recalled her disap­while tickets for the men's nicating and challenging their
pointment with the fact that 
team remain expensive. peers through discussion of
the University of Notre Dame The discussions closed with images of women in society. 
has to give away student tick-
Summer Service Opportunities: International & Domestic 
Global Health Initiative and the CSC present: 
.Honduras 

Work with Children with AIDS • $1700 Scholarship 
• AIDS trained (on campus) 
• Fluent in Spanish 
.Rural Georgia 

Helping Migrant Workers • $1700 Scholarship 
• Some Spanish recommended, but not required • 2-4 students 
Pick up Applications in the CSC Due: Friday March 2,2001 
1 

GLOBAL @_J; 

SOCIAL
HEALTH J':i 
CONCERNS
I N I T I A T I V E l \, 
The Observer 

Winner ofthe 2000-2001 Associated Collegiate Press National Newspaper ofthe Year 
--·· 

Wednesday, February 28, 2001 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Democrats vow to fight tax plan 
. Party instead supports $900 billion tax relief 
Associated Pres• 
WASHINGTON 

Democrats greeted President Bush's first address to Congress with denunciations of his planned tax cuts 
and warn­ings that he is lead­ing the nation toward another era of f'ed­e r a I 


deficits. Daschle When the president proposes ideas that work for all Americans, 
"like his literacy initiative or increases in military pay, we will work with him and work 
hard." Senate Democratic leader Tom Daschle said in the Democratic response to the speech. 
"But when he insists on proposals that threaten the prosperity of all Americans ... we will fight and fight hard," Daschle said. 
Democrats made clear that the new era of bipartisanship the president has been talk­ing about does not extend to their accepting Bush's 10­year. $1.6 trillion tax cut. 
"If what we heard tonight sounds too good to be true, it probably is," said House Democratic leader Dick Gephardt, who joined Daschle in giving the Democratic response. 
"President Bush's budget to get out of that ditch." numbers simply don't add "Underneath the soft up. Ours do. His plan leaves rhetoric, said House no money for anyt,hing Democratic Caucus except tax cuts. Ours does." Chairman Martin Frost of 
Uemocrats say the real cost Texas, "his tax plan is just as 
of the Bush plan, when inter­unfair and irresponsible as est losses and other factors anything we've seen from are added in. is well over $2 right-wing Congressional trillion and will consume Republicans over the past almost all the projected non­several years." Social Security surplus over Sen. Robert Byrd, D-W.Va.. the next decade. Democrats ranking Democrat on the have proposed a $900 billion Senate Appropriations 
plan. Committee, said it would be 
Bush and his GOP backers "sheer madness" to approve say they are confident they Bush's tax cut when the can enact the tax cut and nation has pressing infra­retain enough to protect structure needs and a Social Security and Medicare demand for a Medicare pre­and meet the nation's top scription drug benefit. "We 
education  are going to  
a n d defense needs.  "When he insists on proposals that threaten  be very shortsighted and prove  
Gephardt said Bush was lead­ the prosperity ofall Americans ... we will  ourselves to be poor stewards if  
ing  the  fight andfight hard."  we  go for  a  
nation  tax  cut  of  
down the path taken by Ronald Reagan in  Tom Daschle Senate Democratic leader  this size." Byrd and Gephardt said they  

1981 when he pushed through a big tax cut in his first year in office. while boosting defense spending. "The whole '80s and most of the '90s was the politics of deficits," he said. Bush, he said, "is now trying to drive the wagon into the same 
ditch." 
"It was a huge mistake," Daschle says in the Democratic response. "It took us 18 years, four acts of Congress and a lot of hard work by the American people 

"BUBBLE BOY" HOCKEY TOURNAMENT 
Coming to the club this Wednesday night e is our annual "Bubble (fl Boy" hockey tournament. . . Teams of two will match up against each other and play 
both voted 
for the 1981 Reagan plan because they wanted to give the new pres­ident a chance and because it had support from voters at home. They said this time will be different. 
Sen. Joseph Lieberman. D­Conn., in a speech on the Senate floor, said the nation is at a crossroads. "I want to sound the alarm today," he said, "that unless we deal wisely with the bountiful growth we have had, we risk throwing it all away." 
./ ,l _, 
. ·' 
~ 
I. 

three 40 second periods. Winners advance to the finals and might even get a chance to play in the "city-wide" tournament in downtown South Bend. Of course, the winners of this Wednesday night's tourney will also get prizes (t-shirts) and all participants get retro pint glasses from our sponsor. "Moaning Lisas" will also be playing this Wednesday night (no cover with club membership). Must be 21 or older with valid ID. 
Bush addresses Congress on budget 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

President Bush beckoned a divided Congress Tuesday night to support a large and retroactive tax cut, declaring in a nationally televised address, "The peo­ple of America have been 
o v e r ­charged and on t h e i r behalf, I am here asking for a refund." 
On the 39th day of his presi­dency, Bush pledged to set the nation on "a different path" by slashing federal debt while increasing spending for popu­lar programs such as educa­tion, environmental protection and health research. 
Bush, the first Republican president since Dwight D. Eisenhower to address a GOP­led Congress, reached out to Democrats with a promise to tackle Social Security reform and end racial profiling. In a nod to conservatives, he renewed his call to privatize portions of Social Security and restrain government spending, which would require cuts at several federal agencies. 
Democrats warned that 

Bush's $1.6 trillion, 10-year 
tax-cut plan would jeopardize 
key government programs and 
lead the nation toward anoth­
er era of federal deficits. 
Speaking for his party, Senate 
Democratic leader Tom 
Daschle said enacting a large 
tax cut without a full under­
standing of future federal 
income is "an amazing demon­
stration of irresponsibility." 
Bush appeared relaxed and 

confident during his 49­
minute speech, receiving sev­
eral standing ovations from 
Republicans and polite 
applause from Democrats. 
Members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and Cabinet, along 


with one Supreme Court jus­tice, Stephen Breyer. joined lawmakers in the historic House chamber for the annual ritual. Applause and standing ovations began on one side of the aisle and rippled to the another -depending on the politics of the issue. 
Making the hard sell for tax cuts. Bush said: "Some say my tax pfan is too big." Democrats cheered the line, making clear they agreed. 
"Others say it is too small," Bush continued, drawing applause from Republicans. "I respectfully disagree. This tax relief is just right." 
Not even the pageantry of the moment could extinguish all echoes of last fall's recount. There were audible boos on the Democratic side of the aisle as the Supreme Court was announced. It was a reac­tion to the Supreme Court's 5­4 decision that stopped recounts in Florida and hand­ed the presidency to Bush. 
Standing before a Congress often mired in gridlock, Bush said: "Let us agree to bridge old divides," though he added: "Bipartisanship is more than minding our manners it is doing our duty." 
Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton, 
D-N.Y., a lightning rod for 
criticism from the political 
right, politely applauded Bush. 
With the government awash 
in budget surpluses, the 
nation's 43rd president 
offered something for every­
bod v over the next decade: 
$1.6 trillion in tax cuts, 
including reductions in every 
income bracket; $2 trillion in 
debt reduction; increased 
spending for education, con­
servation and other programs; 
and protections for Social 
Security and Medicare. 
Bush announced the outlines 
of a budget approaching $2 
trillion. It favors education, 
law enforcement and other 
popular programs, while curb­
ing growth in NASA, freezing 
the federal contributions to 
the arts and humanities and 
threatening assistance to the 
homeless. 


page 8 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, February 28, 200 I 
CONGO 

Rwandan troops withdraw marking first pullout since war 


Associated Press 

PWETO, Congo 
Hwandan troops began pulling back from their positions around a town on the front line of the war in Congo early Wednesday, marking the first major withdrawal since the war began 2 1/2 years ago, a Rwandan commander said. 
About 3,000 troops were leaving Pweto, said Col. Karnka Karenze, head of operations l'or the Rwandan army. Five 
U.N. military observers were to monitor the pullout near the Zambian border, as agreed under a peace plan 
reached last "We are ready to fight if Zimbabwe and 
year in 

we must, but we are Namibia inter­
Zambia's capi­
vened in the

tal, Lusaka. more willing to give 
war to prop
"This is gen­

peace a chance." up Kabila.
erally in sup­
Since then, the
port of the 
five foreign

Karaka Karenze
peace process, 
armies have

but also a head of operations for the 
done most of

gnodwill ges­Rwandan army ture which we hope will bring an appropriate response from the government in Kinshasa," Karenze said. Kinshasa is Congo's capital. 
Rwandan soldiers began to leave their positions around midnight in order to pack before a live-day trip by convoy to Pepa, 160 miles northeast of Pweto. Karenze said all the troops were sched­uled to pull out of their positions by mid­morning Wednesday. 
Karenze said control of the town will be turned over to the Congolese Hally for Democracy, a Hwandan-backed rebel group in Congo. But he added that if Congolese government troops or their allies try to enter Pweto, his troops will return in force. 
"We are ready to fight if we must," Karanze said. "But we are more willing to give peace a chance." 
Congolese rebels took up arms against former President Laurent Kabila in August 1998, accusing him of corruption and fostering ethnic hatred. Rwanda and Uganda backed the Congolese rebels, partly as a way of deploying in the area to block the Rwandan and Ugandan 
rebels who were backed by Congo's gov­ernment and used 
Congo  as  a  base  to  
attack  their  home  
countries.  
Angola,  

the fighting in 
the Congo war 
and have evenly divided the country, which is one­fourth the size of the United States. 
The Organization of African Unity and the United Nations man­aged to hammer out a peace _agreement in Lusaka, Zambia last May. The accord calls for the withdrawal of foreign troops, with 
U.N. peacekeepers establishing a buffer zone between the gov-


!~~;~ auSIIOUI 
Ins~tl01~11, lird5 

.pij op iafo/etlIJ fOIII ii RikJ Hall, reo¦ 318B (aYaMihle aow) 
--Opca to illND, St.Ly\ud Holy Cross slndents 
~pon.wred ~ Arts Collfflin. For more mfo email Arts Collective t ~ew.tkwts.l@.d.c41 
Violence 



ernment troops and the rebels. ft also calls for a national debate ·on the future of the country. a new constitution and a new government. 
But Kabila essentially ignored the accord, blocking the deployment of U.N. troops in government-held areas and continuing to bomb rebel positions. Hwanda retaliated by capturing the southeastern Con1wlese town of Pweto. 

the location of' a major airfield, in 
November. 
Kabila was assassinated in January, 
leaving his son in power and creating an 
opportunity to revive the peace process. 
President Joseph Kabila quickly agreed 
to fully implement the peace accords, and 
the warring sides recently committed to 
begin troops withdrawals by March 15, a 
deadline set bv the U.N. Sc~curitv Council. 
The End Is Forever 
MEDI.PLAY. 
Your Entertainment Superstore For the store nearest you, call toll~free 1·888-60-MEDIA. 
Sale ends March l0, 2001, Cauettes available an select titles.  
Join Replay: The club that rewards your love of entertainment.•  s~~~~~;~l~Y.;~~~f,  We Buy& Sell Used CDs!  
Ask 0~1oc:io!e for dalails  may vary by store and online,  Check out our  rec,t selection.  

Wednesday, Febmary 28, 2001 
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Mardi Gras rocks New Orleans 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS 

An estimated million or more people jammed the city's streets on Mardi Gras for the Big Easy's raucous, libidinous, alcohol-fueled cel­ebration. 
Tourists stood agape in the French Quarter as three women strolled the crowded. narrow streets wearing noth­ing but sandals, bikini thongs and elaborate swirls of brightly colored body paint. 
"It's like nothing else in the_ world -the world's biggest f'rnak show," said Wolf Martin. 57, a Los Angeles software engineer. 
Olivier Zissler, a visitor from Nice, France. was amused by the Fat Tuesday excess. 
"We have Carnival in Nice, but it's nothing like this. This makes me think Americans are cnizy. In America, it seems like you have every­thing or nothing, it's all done 
"It's like nothing else in the world -the world's biggest freak show. " 
Wolf Martin tourist 
to extremes." 
Families, many of them with picnic spreads and barbecue grills, lined parade routes in residential neighborhoods and suburbs, but the Quarter rev­elry was for adults only. 
"This is amazing." Marilyn Campbell of Fairborn, Ohio, said as she watched the cos­tumed and sometimes barelv clad show go by. "You jus·t stand there and laugh." 
Costumes included one man's see-through jockey shorts and one woman's revealing skirt and top made only of tied-together bead necklaces. The presidential election was a common theme: One man dressed as a 
f<lorida ballot with a pot belly and a sign declaring himsfllf a pregnant chad. 
"This is the one day a year where I as a New Orleanian feel superior to everyone else in the country who arc at their desks checking e­mail and voice mail. while I've been out here since before dawn drinking beer," 
said Lloyd Webre. a New Orleans native who now lives in Atlanta. 
"And we don't have the riots that other parts of the country have with gatherings this big. We know how to have a good time. It's controlled crazi­ness." 
Late Tuesday, sanitation trucks and mounted police officers mustered near Bourbon Street, preparing for the end of the party and Lent, the austere period of self­
deprivation  that  begins  
Wednesday.  
In Philadelphia.  a  mob of  

revelers smashed the win­d{1ws of several businesses. 

. ,­-' --; RETIREMENT INSURANCE : MUTUAL FUND 5 TRUST 5fR VI CfS : TU IT ID N FIN AN [IN 6  
Why do people in education and research choose TIAA-CREF? Because they're educated Callus~r . afree mformation Packageand they do their research. ..  
Year in and year out, employees at education and research institutions have turned to TIAA-CREF. THE TIAA-CREF And for good reasons: ADVANTAGE • Easy diversification among a range of expertly managed funds Investment Expertise • A solid history of performance and exceptional personal service Low Expenses • A strong commitment to low expenses Customized• Plus, a full range of flexible retirement income options Payment OptionsFor decades. TIAA-CREF has helped professors and staff at over 10,000 campuses across the country invest for­Expert Guidance and enjoy-successful retirements. Choosing your retirement plan provider is simple. Go with the leader: TIAA-CREF.  
Ensuring the future for those who shape it."'  1.800.842.2776 www.tiaa-cref.org  
For more complete information on our securities products, ca!l 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5509, for prospectuses. Read them carefully before you invest • TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Ser.,ices. Inc. and Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc. distribute securities products. • Teachers Insurance and Annuity A550ciation (TIM). New York, NY and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co.. New York, NY issue insurance and annuities. • TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services. • Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are not bank guaranteed. C 2001 Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association-College Retirement Equities Fund. New York, NY 01/02  

. 

Suburb votes to take over 'Dlob haven' 
Schullo is among nine 
Associated Press 
Cicero officials indicted on federal charges over the past
CHICAGO 

three year. He is accused of
With federal election moni­

taking part in a $75,000tors looking on, voters in 
embezzlement scheme.
Cicero went to the polls Loren-Maltese has beenTuesday to settle a fight for accused of no wrongdoing
control of the corruption­herself, but her campaign
plagued and ethnically divid­
fund wased Chicago 

reported to

suburb. 
have invest•

"The people ofCicero
The town 
ed in a golf

has had the have been victims of 
resort with

image of a 
abuse ... for too long. " ties to a
mob haven 
mobster's 

ever since Al 
widow.

Capone made Joseph Marlo Mareno 
Among

it the hub of citizen 
Democrats,

his bootleg­ging empire in the 1920s, but there were no reports of major problems as the town held primaries for town pres­ident, an office tantamount to mayor. 
One election judge, an off­duty corrections officer. was asked to remove the pistol plainly visible in a holster on his hip. ~le did. 
Observers sent in by the Justice Department under the Voting Rights Act were sta­tioned at polling places to ensure fair treatment for Hispanic voters. Under a court order issued in October, federal officials can monitor elections in Cicero for the next five years. 
"The people of Cicero have been victims of abuse and intimidation for too long," said Joseph Mario Moreno, who ran against lawyer Victor Armendariz for the Democratic nomination. Both are Hispanic. 
On the GOP side, two-term Town President Bettty Loren­Maltese was an easy winner based on unofficial returns provided by Cook County Clerk David Orr. With all 65 precincts reporting, she led former police Chief Emil Schullo. 6,985 to 644 votes. Orr spokesman Scott Burnham said. 
Moreno eas­
ily won over 

Armendariz, 3,068 to 647 votes, according to unofficial returns provided by Burnham. 
Tim campaign was marked by hardball tactics, largely aimed by Loren-Maltese allies at Moreno. 
Coming home from a Christmas party. Moreno was charged by Cicero police with drunken driving. The charges were dropped for lack of evi­dence. 
Loren-Maltese supporters then handed out 27-year-old court papers suggesting Moreno was an adulterer and wife beater. That turned out to be a case of mistaken iden­tity. The papers referred to a different Joseph Moreno. 
Cicero, with a population of about 70,000, was for decades a. center of Eastern European immigrants who loyally voted for the local Republican organization's candidates. Today, Hispanic residents make up an esti­mated 60 percent of the pop­ulation. 
Loren-Maltese last year asked for a referendum to raise the residency require­ment for town candidates from 12 months to 18 months. That would have kept Moreno and Armendariz off the ballot. 
Undergrads • Graduate Students 
• 
Fulfill a distribution or general education requirement 

• 
Accelerate progress towards your degree or minor 

• 
Earn full-year credit in foreign languages and physics 

• 
Live on campus -35 miles south of San Francisco 

• 
Over 200 classes offered in more than 50 departments 


Courses such as: Physics, Economics, Biology, Engineering, Music, Computer Science, Philosophy, Drama, Classics, Athletics, Intensive Languages, Chemistry, Psychology, Mathematics, Anthropology, Sociology, Urban Studies, Art 
Stanford University Summer Session Building 590, Ground Floor• Stanford, CA 94305-3005 Ph(650) 723-3109 • Fax(650) 725-6080 • Email: summersession@stanford.edu 
summersession.stanford.edu 
UNIJ2ill 

VIEWPOINT 
OTHE 
page I 0 

BSERVER 
Wednesday, February 28, 200 I 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Bo~ Q. No<r< Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Nom Dame. IN 465'>6 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike-Connolly MANAGING EDITOR 8USINF5S MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Tim Lane 
NF.WS EDITOR: Ann~ Marie Mattingly VIEWPOIN1 EDITOR: Lila Haughey SroRTs EDITOR: Kerry Smith Sc:ENE EDITOR, Amallda Greco SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR, Elizab,,1h Lang 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springc,r AD DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila Sn-nMS ADMINl~,-RATOR: Mike Gunvillc WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Bob Woods GRJ\PHICS EDITOR: Jose Cudhr 
CONTACT Us DFFJCE MANAGEll.lGF.NE.RAL INFO.... ·········631-7471 FAX. ............................................................ 631-6927 ADVERTISINC: ....................................63 !-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE.......................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
obsi,rver.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
V11,wrorNT................................................ 631-5303 
observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu SroRTS.. .. . ........................................... 631-4543 observer.spores. J@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer.scene. J@nd.edu 
SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu rHoTO ........................................................ 631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTMTORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site ar http:llobserver.nd.,du for daily updates of campus news. sports, features and opinion columns, as wdl as cartoons, revi<"Ws and breaking news from rhe Associated Prc,ss. 
SURF TO: 
wcathu for up-to-the 

movicslmwic for 
min u re forecasts 

weekly student revi=s 
advertise for policies 

onJine features for spe­
and rares of print ads 

cial campus coverage 
archives to se:irch for 

about The Observer 
arr ides published afrer 

to meet the editors and 
August 1999 

sraff 
POLICIES 

The. Observer is the independen r, daily newspaper published in print and online by the smdenrs of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Edirorial conrenr. including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the adminiscracion of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advercisemenrs bas.,d on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of rhe majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Edicor, Assisram Managing Edicor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present me views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Vkwpoinr space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor musr b~ signed and must include cuniac1 information. 
Q~,110,u ~ardmg Ohm·vn-po/ides 1houid be d,rect­,d to Editor in Chief Mikr Connolly. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

Th~ seven levels of existence 
The sixth and seventh in a seven part series by Seng Kai Wong. 
l o.vd. i; ·· 1N.. :JJDri«:f 
Gr.iduate Student off-campus Dcccmbe, 2, 2000 
Long distance love destined to fail 


This is a scenario common to all people in all walks of life but it is especially poignant for college students. Okay, only repressed college males who love music from REM's middle period. 
Eric Long
Anyway, listen in on one side of this telephone conversa­tion between a cou­Fitter. ple -let's call the Happier ... male "Joey" and the female "Debbie." Joey is enrolled at a big state college and Debbie attends a small, obscure liberal arts college in the Pacific Northwest. These two are testing the waters of a long distance relationship -they have been suffering for four months. 
This is Joey's part: "Hello. Debbie ... What do you mean l sound 'different?' ... No, I'm fine ... Of course ['m happy to hear from you ... No, really ... Honey, don't ... No, I don't hate you ..." -and then five hours and 67 games of free cell later-"Aw, I love you too. Call me tomorrow." 
Lord, have mercy on the roommates of long distance lovers if for no other rea­son than for having to overhear such dri­vel on a nightly basis. There is something unnatural about long distance relation­ships, but I can't quite unravel the strange mystery -oh yeah, the mystery is it's hard to stay intimate with a signifi­cant other when there is no physical con­tact. 
Easy one after all. Eventually no mat­ter how much love there is in the long distance relationship each participant becomes nothing more than a disembod­ied, static-riddled voice on the phone. 
Don't get me wrong, some long dis­tance couples have the right characteris­tics -true love or mostly an overwhehn­ing fear of being alone -to make it back home. But the odds are not good. I could throw out a made-up statistic about the rate that long distance mates actually succeed but I won't. 
Instead I have determined to make a rigorous inquiry into the types of long 

distance relationships and the various 
reasons they fail. Not unlike Aristotle, I will attempt to persuade you with a bar­rage of complex re?i.soning and with any 
luck I'll remedy this plague. 
What, you ask, is the plague? Why. the plague of long distance recidivism. my friend. In the face of insurmountable fail­ure in the form of dejected roomies, downtrodden friends. hysterical TA's, etc. the long distance lover climbs on. What so diseases the mind, causes this blindness? Why do these masochists ~on­tinue their mad journey? 
Let us begin with high school sweet­hearts, those gentle and kind loves that fall apart like rickety windmills in the slightest breeze. Commonly. they have been together for a year and a half and they decide to stay together after senior year, the prom, graduation -I know you've met these poor fools. 
They go to different schools and inevitably one of three main failure sce­narios manifests itself: the "I can get the same thing, only right next door, though not literally because we have same-sex dorms" pretext, which is self-explanato­ry; the "I was so drunk and I cheated on you at a party" pretext. also obvious and the abstract-yet-popular "l need my free­dom to explore" pretext. 
[f something like any of these takes place head to Defcon Four or at mini­mum -prepare for a bloody revolution. These scenarios wipe out most fledgling long distance affairs; the survivors branch out into any number of joyless or tedious cause/effect chains. 
For instance the "I am going to hold this guilt over your head until you fall to your knees at my feet" chain or the 'TH blackmail you with nude pictures" rou­tine. There is also the classic "I hate your guts and want to break up with you. but I will make you hate my guts and break up with me" bit. 
Of course all of these scenarios are destined to fail also leaving the long dis­tance lover to wait for the unexpected, inevitable morning of the "What the hell 
am I doing?" self-interrogation and 
maybe an extra long. pensive shower. 
Most people learn their lesson after one experience but some remain inflicted for years to.come. 
Now where, you ask. is the joyous. uplifting "term in quotes" for the long distance couple that makes it through the minefield that is college and settles into a terminal. melting Wagnr.rian bliss? 
I don't know. It's not that I cannot con­ceive ol'such an event-Ijust don't trust myself to describe it in words. 
So. for those of you who. with Ahab­esque resolve. pursue the white whale or long distance success, l have some pre­scriptive advice. 
Always do what you want to do, never change for the other person. Put yourself in the grimy hands or fate. because you can't force love. Don't sweat too much about giving your boyfriend or girlfriend continuous streaming updates of your feelings about the relationship. 
If you develop linger calluses from Instant Messenger. if' you get a case of the dread "telephone ear," if' you actually use all of your stamps before they raise the price again, you might be communi­cating too much. Don't ignore the voice in your head -unless it's saying naughty things about former first lady Hillary Clinton. 
Let things run their course. Most importantly. never take on a job in the dining hall to pay your absurdly high phone bill. You will regret it. even if you do end up with the person for whom you made such a scarring sacrifice. 
Please keep in mind that som1~ long distance relationships do work -about 
1.3 percent, according to the latest poll that Ijust made up. 
Eric long is a PLS major and his col­umn appears every other Wednesda.y 
The views expressed in this column arP those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
DILBERT 

MANAGEMENT TRAINING
11------------..--108 .. E 
@I 
~

THERE ARE TWO 
.. 
j

ESSENTIAL RULE5 Of t'\ANA.GEMENT. 
t 
) 

SCOTT ADAMS 
ONE: THE Tu.JO: THEY CU5TOMER MU5T BE 15 ALWA'f& PUNISHED RIGHT. FOR THEIR 
AP.ROGAN CE! 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Our problems are man-made. there! ore they may be solved by man. And man can be as big as he wants. No problem ofhuman destiny is beyond human beings ... 
John F. Kennedy former president 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

Wednesday, February 28, 2001 BSERVER 
page 11 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Addressing a physical and emotional disorder 
Victim gains freedom from food 
An alcoholic can give up drinking; a drug addicl can give up drugs. But what can food addicts do? We have to eat. This was my strug­gle when I flrsL l;/lme into Overealcrs Anonymous, a fellowship of men and women who ure suffering from eating disorders. 
Fuod has bCl\11 an issue for me my entire lifo. I remember during my Girl Scout days buying extra boxes of Thin Minl'i and hiding them under my bed. At the age of 10 my cholesterol was well over 200. Life was a whirlwind of buy­ing, stealing. sneaking and eating food. And of course, gaining weight. Food was my best friend. 
The disease only progressed as I got older. I saw dotlors, therapists, I even went to confes­sion to atone !'or being a glutton. It seemed that even Cod didn't care. 
The descent into hell culminated during my college years. Hetween late night pizza breaks and dining halls full of all my favorite binge foods I was in a rut. I went from gorging myself to starvation because I knew that the only way I would not binge was if I didn't cat. 
Food was no longer my friend but my worst enemy. Yet l cculd never scein to put it down. I felt as though I were leading a double life, eating "normal" in front of others, and binging when I was alone. I hated myself. I was becoming suici­dal. 
i\fter seeing yet another therapist I finally decided to go to Overeaters Anonymous. I was familiar with the program but never considered it seriously. The pain made me desperate. The more meetings I attended, the more I realized that there were people who did the same crazy things with food that I did. 
They told me I suffered from a physical, emo­tional and spiritual disease. My food addiction was a mixture of allergy and compulsion. And it would kill me if I did nothing to arrest it. I had to face the first step -admit I was powerless over food and that my life had become unmanage­able. 
Was I powerless? Well I sure seemed 1.o be unable to stop binging. That was powerlessness to me. Was my life unmanageable? Well when I wasn't eating I was sleeping. I was barflly get­ting by with my classes. My social life consisted of a trip to the grocery store to stock up on binge foods. That was unmanageability to me. 
Today things are much different. I have just marked the one year anniversary of my recovery in OA. Things are not all roses but I am so much further ahead than where I used to be. I am building a relationship with a power greater than myself and that is slowly filling the hole that I have always tried to stuff with food. 
Yes I have lost weight, but its importance has seemed to fade as I am learning how to live one day at a time. I've learned that the diets and programs I had been on had failed because they were treating only the physical symptoms, not the spiritual and emotional. 
For those who suffer from an eating disorder, you are not alone. There is hope and there is a solu­tion. So manyresources are available, whether it's OA or another program. You did not ask to have this disorder but you do not have to suffer from it. Break the isolation. 
Overeaters Anonymous is a fellowship of individuals who through shared experience, strength and hope are recovering from eating disorders. There are no dues or fees for membership. For informa­tion on meetings in the South Bend area visit the web site: www.region5oa.org or call (219) 239­6526. 
Anonymous 
February 27, 200 I 

Healing requires support 
The prevalence of eating disor­ders is one of the biggest prob­lems facing our student body. l\Iany universities have similar trouble -one out of five college women has an eating disorder ­but Notre Dame is a different 
type of school and' should 
respond differently. We must under­stand that obses­
sion with food is contagious. When one 
woman com­ments that she is fat 
most of the women 
will view them­selves in the same way. Constant 
calorie counting, taking 
diet pills, guilt after meals and 
compulsive exercise is unhealthy. Such anxiety and obsession keeps us from happiness. 

Many people with such an unhealthy relationship with food creates an environment which is conducive to eating dis­orders. We must work to destroy an environment which perpetu­ates the disease. 
We must recognize God's role in the healing process. An eating disorder is not primarily a prob­lem with food, it is a disease of the soul; we must heal the soul before we can treat the body. The heart of recovery is spiritu­al. We must be praying at Mass and as individuals for all those suffering from an eating disor­der. Instead of talking or worry­ing about a friend that looks too thin light a candle for her at the grotto. 
Open and honest discussion is necessary. We can't talk about people behind their backs or we worry for weeks without saying anything. Speaking with others who have had similar experi­ences can help bring the healing and self-acceptance that a per­son with an eating disorder needs. If we continue to let shame keep us quiet we will cut ourselves off from a precious resource: each other. 
The women on this campus most definitely need each other. We can agree to stop talking about calories and to stop say­ing, 'Tm so fat!" We can walk to the counseling center with a scared friend. We can pray for each other. Imagine the incredi­ble things that we could accom­plish if we weren't weighed down with worries about food. 
Alexandra Swiacki 
sophomore McGlinn Hall Februa1y 27, 200 I 


I am writing this letter in response to the "What Brothers Think, What Sistahs Know" forum. I feel sadness and utter frustration by some of the narrow-minded overtones heard the other night. As we enter into the 21st century or the new millennium senti­ments of resentment and hatred can be strongly felt in the African-American communi­ty dealing with interracial dating. A notion or "us" versus "them" mentality is expressed in both its verbal and expressive form. 
Coming to the University of Notre Dame has made me re-examine my identity and role within the African-American community. At times it feels like a community of intellectually and spiritually gifted beings of God that closes our minds off when race becomes a factor. · 
This becomes particularly evident whenever an African-American male is dating a woman of another ethnicity. He is often referred to as a "sellout" and other degrading words that destroy the foundations of his soul. It is interesting to hear the blatant igno­rance and closed mindedness from the s.inall percentage of women of color when men­tioning interracial dating. 
The ignorance can be understood in some ways. African-American women find diffi­culties dating outside of their ethnicity because of the lack of social acceptance within society. Venting frustrations and anger at African-American men when they interact and have relationships with women of other ethnicities hurts us as a whole. Saying that women of color pose an immediate threat on the man's masculinity because of her strong, assertive, independent nature can sometimes be perceived as selfish and nar­
row-minded. 
Speaking from a male perspective, we need our women of color to be supportive and understanding of our actions. Men also have to support and love our women as we want to be loved and respected. Plato must have been wrong in implying that man has to fully understand his soul in appreciating the nature or beauty that lies on earth. The problem that arises on earth occurs when some women and men attempt to place a racial boundary on love. 
Love is meant to be colorblind. An African-American man who appreciates and loves a woman for the all of the gifts and greatness that she brings to this earth has a deep understanding of himself and the world around him. If a man of color can accept a woman for who she is, what role she plays in society and her independence then race should not play an significant factor in personal or extramarital relationships. Love in its most ultimate form is suppose to unite the procreation of souls together, binding them in a lasting, soul nurturing relationship despite ethnicity and religion. 
It is time for African-American men and women to re-examine their moral con­sciousness to find the true meaning within them. If people start looking at their own sit­uations and not necessarily concentrating on whom people date then we as human beings of the universe will find equilibrium amongst each other. 
Jourdan Sorrell freshman Siegfried Hall February 27, 200 I 


C 


eno, s 
page 12 

Wednesday, February 28, 200 I 
Mating of praying 
mantises teaches wise dating lessons 
Sometimes I foci that life would be better lived as a praying mantis. Oh yes, the lanky. green insects we pay little heed to live the life ol' goddrsscs. They meet their partner, mate and tlwn cat thc~m. Could life be any better? All the joys of dating, and they even get a I'ree meal out of it. 
Think about it. None of the awkward silences. No expensive gifts. Obligation is at a minimum, and, aside from the devoured partnc1r, everyone goes home happy. 
llowcvcr, the odds arc that if you arc reading this, then you're probably not a praying mantis. (Or if you are, you're an extremely gifted bug.) And because the dating rituals of these insects arcn't com­monly analogous to the human world. chances arc that for you, dating isn't quite so effortless. 
Let's face it. We all spend a great deal of our time thinking about, noticing and chasing the opposite sex. ll 's like a game of' tag in grade school -except dating offers !Jetter benefits than proclaiming a person "it." Dating is. really, a great idea. It's a way to attain all sorts of important people skills, brings a new twist to your weekend activities and it gives you someone to celebrate with on national holidays. 
As wonderful as dating sounds, however. there is a catch ­you have to get there. And when it comes down to it, praying mantises aside, it's not always as easy as meeting and mating. There's a certain protocol that is involved in modern dating. This is where problems arise, as it seems that men and women have been given different handbooks on dating etiquette. 
The men's handbook, in short. reads as follows: 
1. 
When you say you 'II call on Sunday, this translates into Wednesday, al'ter the hockey game. 

2. 
A kiss is just a kiss. Period. ::;. Anniversaries really only matter when you're married, right? 


4. 
Communication is always at a minimum. If you can't say it in 10 minutes, it's not worth being said. 

5. 
Watching the game and having a Bud with the boys is a per­fectly acceptable reason to not see your girlfriend on a Friday night. 

6. 
Eyeing other women while on a date is only human. 

7. 
Male bonding time is priceless. 

8. 
Women should automatically know all or the above. 


The women's guide to dating is quite different. It's not "The Hules," but it's a precise and rarely yielding set of codes and rngulations that reads as such: 
1. 
Long. deep conversations about "us" are essential for build­ing relationships. 

2. 
When you get half an inch trimmed off your hair. a boy should notice. 

3. 
If he doesn't call for two days, this is cause for alarm. 

4. 
You should be treated the same, if not better, in front of his friends. 

5. 
They're not chick flicks -they're date movies. 

6. 
He should be able to meet all of your expectations, even if you don't voice them. 

7. 
When you tell him that nothing is wrong, of course you don't mean it. 

8. 
"You look grnal tonight," should be a staple in his vocabu­lary. 


The life of a praying mantis looks better and better doesn't it" None of the anxiety, none of the confusion. However, there am cases when the guide books merge and everything eventu­ally falls into place. 
There is a way to incorporate men's and women's dating eti­quette to fit most circumstances, particularly if you're patient. It's not a hopeless cause. There are exceptions to every rule, of course -especially when alcohol in introduced into the sit­uation -but cases like these bring their own set of guidelines. 
Unfortunatdy, we can't live our lives as easily as a praying mantis. Instead we're obligated to go about dating in a per­ilous and erratic manner that is far from the ease of the meet­ing and mating phenomenon. However. when it comes down to it. dating really is a great idea -as long as it's not "insect­ual." 
The views expressed in this column are £hose of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Jacqueline Browder 
In Vogue 


she the director. she is also the club's presi­
By C. SPENCER BEGGS 
dent. Assistant Scene Editor 
"I think the point of the Not-So-Royal­
Shak_&.S-peare Company is to make 
A bloodcurdling scream comes from the Shakespeare's plays accessible to students normally tranquil Hesburgh International in the 111odern day." said Fabrcga. Center for Peace Studies auditorium. "Shakespeare's words still have value in 
A police officer rushes to the scene, sec­society. The l)lore we study it, the more we 
onds too late. Two lay mur­realize the uncanny accu­dered. Soon a crowd gath­racy he had in depicting ers, waking the weary from "Shakespeare is not just human experience." their slumber to behold the for English majors. He This performance of tragedy of love fighting "Homeo and Juliet" has
wrote his plays for every-
hate. been modernized in sever­
one.

Who says Shakespeare a I ways. For example, isn't fun? Certainly not Lisa Juliet is not portrayed as a Marie Fabrega, the director damsel in distress.
Lisa Marie Fabrega

of the Not-So-Royal­Instead. the company
director of "Romeo and Juliet"
Shakespeare Company's opted to use more modern spring play, "Romeo and definitions of gender to Juliet." depict the star-crossed 
"A lot of people get turned off by lovers. Shakespeare because it is written during a Costumes arc simple in this show so the time when writers liked to play around with audience can focus on the performance the English language," Fabrega said. "The rather than confusing period-costume intri­text was written to be performed, not just cacies. read." In the end. the Not-So-Royal-Shakespeare 
Performance is easier said Company is about having than done, as this cast quickly "Romeo and Juliet" fun. "Shakespeare is not 
learned. The auditions were just for English majors," held before winter break so . What: Aproduction of the Not-Fabrega said. "lie wrote his that the actors had time to So-Royal-Shakespeare Company plays for everyone." 
study their lines. "Romeo and Juliet" will be Fabrega tried to get the . Where: Hesburgh Library performed March 1 through actors to think about the show Auditorium 4 in the Hesburgh Library on a more personal level. . When: March 1-3 at 7:30 Auditorium. "You need to think about Tickets are available at what each line is saying. Don't p.m., March 4 at 2 p.m. the LaFortune Box Office 
just read. you need to bring Tickets available at the and stand-by tickets will the words to life," Fabrega also be sold at the dour. told the cast during a break. LaFortune Box Office or at the The Not-So-Royal-
The Not-So-Royal-door -$7 general admission, Shakespeare Company does Shakespeare Company, found­have space limitations. how­
$5 for students. 

ed in 1993, is an entirely stu­ever, and thus must stick to dent-run organization. a strict lateness policy. 
The club does one or two shows a year, All ticket holders not present 10 minutes usually alternating between comedies and before the start of the show may have their tragedies. Past shows have included "The tickets voided and resold because of high Tempest," "The Comedy of Errors" and numbers of patrons wanting to see the show "Macbeth." each night. Entrance into the theater al'ler 
Fabrega serves double duty -not only is the performance starts is prohibited. 

-···­

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 28, 2001 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Griffin records triple-double, leads Syracuse to victory 
Associated Press 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. 
The note Allen Griffin posted inside his locker Tuesday niglJt was all the inspiration Syracuse's senior point guard ner,ded. 
It read: u15 points. 15 assists. You only have one senior night. Give us something to remember." 
And so he did, getting 14 points, 11 assists und 10 rebounds in his final home game to lead No. 19 Syracuse to an 80-69 victory over Pittsburgh. 
"!L's funny, and you all might think I'm joking and lying, but I called it before I came over here (tonight)." Griffin said after the first triple-double of his life. 'Tm just happy to go out on a hot note like this." 
Senior forward Damone Brown also had a big night. with 21 points and 10 rebounds as Syracuse (21-7, 9-6 Hig East) took sole possession of second place in the Big East West Division with one game left in the regular season. 
"Allen just put us on his shoulders tonight." Syracuse coach Jim Boeheim said. "He did everything for us. This was a huge win, to get to nine (wins in the conference). We're trying to get bet­ter and we want to play better." 
Pittsburgh (14-12. 6-9) needed wins here and in its season finale against Virginia Tech to improve its seeding for the Big East tournament, which begins next week. 
Syracuse rallied from a 15-point deficit to defeat the Panthers 71-66 in early January, a game that helped define the team's character. On this night. the Orangemen built a big early I.cad and the Panthers couldn't recover. 
Syracuse reeled off 17 straight points in the first half to take command, clos­ing the period with a 23-8 rush that did in the Panthers. 
"They really exploited us the last 10 minutes of the first half, pushing the ball on us in fast breaks," Pitt coach Ben Howland said. "We just did a poor job of transition defense, they got up on us there and really hurt us. It seemed like we were half a step slow tonight. It looked like we were out of it emotional­1y and I have no answer for that because this was a huge opportunity for 
us." 

Preston Shumpert, who scored a sea­son-low eight points in Syracuse's 72-61 loss at Georgetown on Saturday, had 19 points and seven rebounds, and Kueth Duany added 13 points. 
Ricardo Greer led the Panthers with 14 points, while Rrandin Knight had 12 and Jaron Brown 11. 
After Isaac Hawkins hit a floater in the lane to pull the Panthers within 15­14 with 10;48 to go in I.he first half, Duany began the Syracuse surge with a driving slam dunk with 9:08 left. 
Duany paced the run with nine points and Griffin had five. 
Pitt was held scoreless for nearly six minutes until Greer hit a 3-pointer with 33 seconds left to move the Panthers within 38-22 at halftime. 
"They just came out with more inten­sity than we did," said Hawkins. who had five points and seven rebounds. "They just came out with a high level of energy and brought it to us." 
Syracuse upped the lead to 22 points early in the second half. Damone Brown hit two free t.hrows. nailed a 3-pointer from the right corner, fed Billy Celuck for an easy layin, and then hit a spin­ning layup in the lane to make it 51-29 with 16:58 to play. 
Griffin's 3 midway through the half boosted the lead to 63-36, but the Panthers rallied with a 12-0 run. Zelimir Stevanovic began it with the first of his two 3-pointers and Knight finished it with a three-point play with 
9:46 remaining. 
"To get up 27 in this league is almost never done," Boeheim said. "Then, when you relax for just a minute, we left a couple of their shooters open, they knocked them down, and all of a sudden they're back in I.he game." 
Maryland 91, Duke 80 
Maryland's highest and lowest moments of the season have both come against No. 2 Duke. 
The 16th-ranked Terrapins blew a 10­point lead in the final minute a month ago at home, but got revenge in Cameron Indoor Stadium by beating the Blue Devils 91-80 Tuesday night. 
"I can't say enough about our charac­ter," coach Gary Williams said. "To go through what we did in College Park. to lose a game like we did and then come down here and get the win, that's really big." 


Jason Williams re-injured his sore calf in the second half and Duke played the final 9? minutes without center Carlos Boozer. who hurt his right foot. Krzyzewski said he believed Boozer broke a bone in his right foot. 
"I just know there is a slight fracture," Krzyzewski said. "I would say for the next couple of weeks we're not going to have him. 
"We just have to circle the wagons and get tougher." 
Juan Dixon was the offensive and defensive hero for the Terrapins (19-9, 9-6 Atlantic Coa.<,t Conference). scoring 28 points and getting five steals. 
"I said we were back on track a cou­ple of games ago," said Dixon, who was 11-for-20 from the field. "We just need­ed one win and after that I said we were back and we're showing it now. Hopefully a lot of people will believe us, if not, we're just going to keep playing our type of basketball." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 
024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
TICKETS 
Need 1 lickel to Men's b-ball game on Mar. 4 for dad. Call Carolyn 4­2346 
Wanted 2 Tix for Georgetown game on Sunday 3/4. Call Kim @ 631­5676 
WANTED 
Make $5500 in summer &lor start now. Set own hours -need hard work & good social skills. Call 4-2765 
SUMMER HELP NEEDED ­
L 

TEACHER ASSISTANTS The Early Childhood Development Center at the University of Notre Dame is looking tor college stu­dents who enjoy young children. If you would be interested in spending the summer, June 7-August 3 -40 hours per week, assisting the chil­dren and teachers on field trips, reading children6s books, building with blocks, singing songs, playing games and assisting with lunch, please call 631-3344 to receive an application and more infonnation. 
FUN IN THE SUN!! 
Reward Available Lost Class Ring Blue Stone with Small ND Dark finish with '01 inside Call Todd at 246-9085 Reliable, quality childcare needed in my home for 2-year-old and infant. Part-lime hours are 2-3 hrs/day, 3-4 days/wk with 1 Saturday a month. Majoring in early childhood development or child­hood education with own trans• portation a plus but no! necessary. References required. Phone 288-6795 
Ex ND staffer and spouse want to rent your apt. for summer. Non­smokers no pets. Have rented from students for past 12 summers. Write 135 Lakeview Dr. Mulberry FL 33860 863-425-4402 
LOST AND FOUND 
Reward Available ­Lost Class Ring Blue Stone with Small ND dark finish with '01 inside Call Todd at 246-9085 
SIZEABLE REWARD OFFERED: 
For a lost gold and silver bracelet 
with allernating silver and gold blocks, if found please contact Rachel Phillips at 4-1492 or email phi1lips.75@nd.edu 
FOR RENT 
3-6 bedroom homes furn. Near campus 2001102&summer 272· 6306 All the good homes are not gone! Available 4 bedroom. Available 2 bedroom. Dave 291-2209 Macos@michiana.org 
3-5 bedroom homes close to campus 232-2595 mmmrentals@aolcom 
2 Houses, side by side, still avail For 2001-02. Rent one or both, 4 BR & 6 BR, Furnished, beach V­ball, W/D, prime location, 233-9947 Greg FOR SALE $$ Get paid for your opinions!$$ Earn $15·$125 and more per sur• veyl ~ney4opinions.com 
2-4 PERSON HOUSE FOR RENT. NEWLY RENOVATED. THREE BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. CALL 219-298-3800. 
FOR SALE 
New Townhouse in "The Forest" 2 story 2.5 bath Study Hardwood floors Skylights Deck French doors Alarm $179,900 243-2939 
Wooded 112 acre lots 20 minutes to Notre Dame Football. Minutes to US Golf Academy. Contract avail­able. $20,000 Phone (219) 473­0191 
Microwave stand w/ s1orage $175 Call Kim 631-5678 

PHONE CARDS $20: 2601 MIN WITH 49 CENT SUR­CHARGE or$20 362 MIN WITH NO FEES 
634-1146 CLAUDIA 634-4210 SARA 
Beautiful brass bed, queen size, with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame. All new, never used, still in plastic. $235 219-862-2088 
89 Toyota Corolla manual. 100 K highway miles $2300 call 273-3149 
PERSONAL 
Fraternities' Sororities 'Clubs' Stu de nt Groups 
Earn $1,000-$2,000 this semester with the easy Campustundraiser.corn three hour fundraising event. No sales required. Fundraising dates are fill­ing quickly, so call today, Contact Campusfundraiser.com at (866) 923-3238, or visit www.campus­fundraiser.com 
Old El Paso, empty the trash in 126 
Cscott, if that pie really took you four hours you are severely under­cnallenged. Oh, and Dan, not only are you obsessed with nudity, but it was a waste of photo paper. 
Graduate Fellowships in Cell and Molecular Physiology 
Full time Ph.D. sludenl research fel­lowships are available in !he Cell and Molecular Physiology Graduate Program of Loyola University Chicago. Reasearch areas include ion channel molecular biology, bio­physics and biochemistry, cardiac electrophysiology, calcium dynam­ics and exci1ationcontraclion cou­pling, signal transduction, neuro­physiology, and neral and immune components of trauma and injury biology. Applications are sought from individuals motivated to become biomedical research scien­tists. See our web page at Wl'IY{,JMQ~.~Yl.i~ ~l.J¥SiQ or contact Dr Stephen B. Jones, Department of Physiology, Stritch School of Medicine, Loyola University Chicago, 2160 South First Avenue, Maywood IL 60153 Telephone (708) 327-2470, e-mail l,jones@iumc.edu. 
Loyola University is an equal oppor­tunity/affirmative action employer. 
And now for the Frisco series 

Speaking of whipping it out when I really need it 
Wonder what Amber and Jim are doing. Nah, bad visual on that one! 
Mean Nareen may have to make an appearance at Bruno's. 
Who knows, maybe she'll see the guy who mowed that guy down at Kennedy's, resulling in the titanium knee pole 
Waves, cars, cookies and cliffs 
Yeah, it's good to be on top. Way to go No. 1 college paper in America! HEY KNIGHT What time is ii? I hale tests Hey Turtle, 
I'm a ''freaking" frog you "idiot'' spork Hey Joey, 
When are you going to do it right? Huh? Tell me. 
Ok thanks. Who????? Almos! finished That's all folks Let's Go Rangers Lei's Go Mets! Lei's Go Giants Graceland Kentwood 

T E L 
eene I 0 N 
Wednesday, February 28, 200 I page 13 
America's love affair with soap operas heats up 
l\y KATIE MALMQUIST Scene Wrirer 
It's two in Urn aflcrnoon -there's an hour until your next class. Knowing you should use the time to finish the reading you cast ofr at midnight last nigl1t. you turn inslt\ad to your remote. 
Flipping on tlw television. you join millions of othnr A11wricans poised on the edge of ensuing drunia. That's right -it's "Passions" time. 
No nrnlllir how often we try to deny it, Americans arn in love with soap operas. l>ut considering the depth and longth of this love affair's impact on the entertainment industry, it has no reason to be embarrassed. 
Daytime tc>levision is cveryw·here. The hourglass from "Uavs of Our Lives" has become an instantly rncogniz1~bln icon. and the series' opening mono·­logun is an 1•ndless source of parody. Characters !ikP Erika KanP (Susan Lucci) on "!\II My Children" hav(i twconw household names. 
You can't even gPl through the line at the super­11111rknt without being !'aced with Pinc Valley's latest issue or llarmony's currently burning lov1i triangle. 
/\nd while most would not admit to actually pur­chasing "Soap Opera Digest," we all know someone who docs. Someone who plans his or her class schedule around "General llospital" every year. Someone who tapes "All My Children" on a daily basis. 
This devoted !'an might not be you. but chances are. it's someone you know well. Su to help you, er, your l'rinnd, make sense or the craziness, here's a closer look at today's soap opera craze. 
History of a Genre 
ThP soap opera genre was originally introduced into American rnlture in the form of daily radio prngrams during the 19::!0s. 
These shows became immensely popular during the Depression, o!'ten depicting characters who con­quered great odds, and radio stations continued to air an increasing number of similar programs. 
With the advent of the television in the 1940s, the shows hit mainstream TV networks, and by the 1950s many had become hugely successful. The soap opera quickly became one of the most popular TV genres. 
Of the shows created during this early era, sever­al still remain prominent network story lines, including ABC's "One Life to Live," "All My 
Child rnn" and "General l!ospital," which were created in the 60s. 
C B S ' s 
"Guiding Light" and "As the World Turns" both date back to the early 50s. 
Originally sponsored by soap manufac­turing compa­nies like Proctor and c;amble, the shows were producnd with a female audi­trncc spncilical­ly in mind. 
Hccognizing this focus, companies si~ned on with the intention of selling soap­related prod­ucts to the tra­ditional house­bound woman. 

S(iveral com­panies which still exist today saw laundry and dish detergent sales skyrocket because of their television advertising, and the serials were coined "soap opcrns" in the wake of the American house-wife's 
overwhelming response. 
Today's Audience 

While the midday time slots remain the norm and viewers are more likely to see commercials for dia­pers and c!e:rner l1uid than beer or motor oil during the programs, the soap opera audience of today has evolved with America's changing gender roles and expectations. 
Moro and more women spend their days working and simply don't have time to watch soaps, while the number of men who are able to and enjoy watching has increased. 
Still, ir you wander into any female dorm's TV lounge between noon and four o'clock on a weekday afLernoon, you arc bound to find the room lit­tered with more hungry eyes than any male dorm can offer. 
"I have to attribu le !the female-domi­nated audi­ence) to run­damcntal di!'­f ere n c es between men and women," said Valerie Holsinger, a Notre Dame senior and long-time soap watcher. 
''I'm part of the Gender 
c en tratio n, 

ly among younger audiences. 
and don't 
usually jump 

to label these kind of issues, but I think in this case 
a lot of guys won't always admit [to watching 
soaps]," Holsinger said. This stigma is an important factor in the demo­graphics of soap opera watchers, but it doesn't deter true fans. Sophomore Matt Cassady openly admits to watch­
ing soaps. "A lot of' the story lines are geared 
toward 
women, but if anyone sat down and started watching, they'd get drawn in just the same," Cassady said. 
Still, when 
asked if he would ever watch his soap in the Dylan Hall TV lounge Cassady said, "Hell no!" 
"People walk by there all the time," said Cassady. "I mean, it's like watch­i n g 
NASCAR." 
W h i I e today's 10 running 
soaps have 
an average 
daily audi­ence of nearly 20 million viewers, at least one of which we know is male, there arc the select few out there, men and women alike. who don't appreciate this kind of entertainment. 
"I just find the story lines to be too unbelievable," said Walsh Hall sophomore Jody Kahn. "The actors are never very good and many of 
those shows are downright trashy. The men are dis­
trustful. and most of the women arc insultingly 
dumb -it's offensive," said Kahn. Despite occasional distaste for the genre. main­stream soap operas contimm to gain popularity. 
Board games, trivia games, photo books, maga­zines, web pages and even tours to meet various character actors spring up left and right l'or each 
show. With the past decade's advent 

Studies con­NBC's soap opera "Passions" has steadily risen in popularity, especial­
of the Internet, soaps have followed other forms of media in mak­ing the jump to the digital world, and m a n y Internet-based soap operas are currently available to those who can't get (~nough drama on television. 
The Concept 
and Appeal 
Whether you need more 
· excitement in your life or you simply want to take a break to enjoy the excitement of' someone else's, today's soap opera concept is simple. 
For one hour you lose your­self' in the 

drama of other people's lives, problems and romances. 
Of course. the formula is always the same: a few wealthy, influential and competing families, a girl who has married into each at least twice, various commoners whose backgrounds are always mysteri­ously dark and subject to interpretation, and at least one evil twin. 
No marriage is impenetrable, no paternity test 
.one hundred percent certain. Someone always dis­covers a lost sibling. a baby switched at birth or a mysterious figure from the past lurking around 
town. Where foul play is involved -and it almo~t always is -death is never final and revenge 1s always just around the corner. But one thing remains true: the more outrageous the plot line becomes, the more viewers will be drawn in and the more Emmy nominations loom on the horizon. "For me it's an hour of fantasy when I can watch other people mess up their lives," Holsinger said. "The story lines just suck you in," said Cassady, who got hooked on one soap in high school when his older sister starting watching. Another draw is the fact that the shows air daily. Unlike many recent primetime dramas like "Beverly, Hills 90210" and "Party of Five," which use many of the same melodramatic techniques as the classic soap operas but which air only once a week, day­time television delivers a new show every weekday, even on Christmas or Thanksgiving (which usually means a special episode). .. . "You can miss weeks and not be confused, said Holsinger, who admitted to taping her favorite show every once in a while. "I love it if I can ~atch on a daily basis. but because there is a new episode each day, I don't get upset if I miss one here or, the_r:'." So if the soap opera addiction sounds lam1!Iar ­the need to tape your show each day or to catch daily recaps on the Internet -know that you are not alone. There's a whole country of !'ans out there, desper­ately drawn into the crazy lives of fictitious char~c­ters who plague fictitious towns with endless antics as irresistible as they are unbelievable. And after 70 years of entertainment success. don't worry -soaps aren't going anywhere. So should you find yourself sitting around yo~r room tomorrow afternoon. with your roommates 111 class and your lack of desire to do work overwhelm­ing, wander down to the TV lounge. You might be surprised what soap opera fans you find there. 

page 15

Wednesday, February 28, 200 I The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
TUDOR KING TUDOR HOUSE 

TUTORING!! 

Come to 1010 Flanner Hall on March 1 at 7:00 p.m. 
For more information please call 1-4447 or visit: http://ieiweb.flanner.nd.edu:8020/ 
• FOR 

~ -._' 
-~-·. 
:,, 0 
'2 
.· t' 
.. 


page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 28, 2001 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Thomas returns to White Sox camp, apologizes to fans 
White Sox fans," Thomas said. in his 50s. publicly for his remarks about "Players will have gripes and 
Associated rress 
Thomas, who returned on the "Who knows if I'll be here? renegotiating his contract, his that will continue until some­mandatory reporting date speci­I've earned my money and it's delayed arrival in camp and the thing is settled. something is 
TUCSON. Ariz. 
fied by baseball's labor contract, mine," Thomas said. ''I'm not effect his words and actions may done. I didn't say 'Look this is 
Frank Thomas not only 
is due $9,927,000 in each of the asking for more money. It's my have had on our team and fans," my stance today and I'm walking showed up, he apologized. 
next six seasons, but only this money." Reinsdorf said. out of camp.' It wasn't like 
The Big llurt returned to the 
year is really guaranteed. Reinsdorf issued a statement When he left camp last week, that."' 
Chicago White Sox on Tuesday If he fails to become an AII­that was both critical and Thomas complained that he was Thomas said he needed the 
after miss­
SLar, wi.n a Silver Slugger or fin­encouraging. underpaid in relation to Alex extra days to think about his 
ing six 
ish among the top 10 in MVP Thomas, he said, "understands Rodriguez's $252 million, 10-contract before beginning prac­workouts voting, Chicago has the power to the public damage caused by his year contract with Texas. tice. When Thomas lirst agreedwhile com­change his salary to $250,000 comments and realizes who "I said the pay scale is out ol' to his contract in 1997, the guar­
plaining he 
plus $10,125,000 deferred. If hard he will have to work to whack. We're going in at 7-8-9 anteed amount of the 11rst four was under­that happens -and the White begin repairing his relationship million and the bar has been set years averaged $7,756,750. the paid. But he Sox don't have to invoke the with the fans." at 25 million," Thomas said 10th-highest average salary in insisted his clause -Thomas could termi­''Frank Thomas has apologized Tuesday. baseball at the time. boycott nate the contract and become a 
wasn't 
free agent. 
Thomas

a b o u L 
"It was never a holdout. It was money. 
taking days off until we got

"I did look like a poster boy for things clear," Thomas said. "I greed over the weekend. but 
made no contract demands, I that is not the case," Thomas 
made no trade demands. Moneysaid. ''I've never been greedy. 
was never the issue. I felt a play­I've had a couple or opportuni­
er who's done what I've done ties to be the highest-paid player and established a career like I in thi!; gumc, and I didn't want have that certain clauses just lo be there." 
seemed unfair to me." Thomas acknowledged that 
Thomas met Monday nightfans, whose favor he regained by 
with White Sox owner Jerryhitting .'.~28 last year with 43 
lleinsdorf'. 

homers and 143 H13Is, probably "Jerry has made no changes. would turn on him. He didn't promise he would Ile began his news conference make any changes, but he said by reading a statement in which we would work on it," Thomas he apologized to baseball fans. said. "If I didn't clear it up, who sports fans and his teammates. knows where I would be two 
I le said he would discuss the sit­years from now?" 
uation with his teammates one Thomas also would like to 
on one. rework some of the deferred 
"l extend my apologies to money in his contract. His cur­
those who were affected by my rent contract calls for the team 
absence. lt was a big distraction. to defer $3,827,000 of each 
I do want to apologize to my year's salary with interest. He 
teammates and all Chicago won't get some of that until he's 
Ifyou were a Notre Dame professor, what would you say in your 
the University of Notre Dame 



I I 
Speaker: Dr. Susan Ohmer 
?epart1?:J~t,fAmerican Studies 
.. i
,·J

_;'.Ge ,ng Ahead While Having a Life" ,,'1 ' 
.. 

February 28, 7 pn1 McGlinn 24-hour Lounge
,,. 

SPONSORED BY YOUR STUDENT UNION, MCGLINN HALL, & ALUMNI HALL 
Wednesday, February 28, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 

Gun, Rueda heading toward roommate showdown 
neither Gun or Rueda is looking than I did in my last fight," Gun By KEBVIN BERCHOU ahead, Both will have their said. "My nose is still kind of Spons W ricer hands full tonight. Gun, who sore." 
won a bloody battle over Brian Rueda will also be involved in 

For Tom Gun and Camillo 
Kenney in the quarterfinals, what shapes up as a great fight,

Rueda, both senior participants will go toe to toe with junior as he prepares to lock horns
in these 71st annual Bengal 
Sean Newberg, the defending with Derrick Bravo, who over­Bouts, there is extra motivation champion at the 125 lb. weight came a foot injury to score a

to emerge victorious from 
class. second round technical knock

tonight's semifinals tussles. 
Gun anticipates a tough fight. out in the quarters.

Gun and Hueda, fighting on 
"We're both about the same

opposites end of the brackets, 
height," he said. "I think we 

urc roommates and if each 135 lb.
match up well." 

were to win they would fight In a clash of first year tacti­
Gun, however, did admit he

each other in rriday·s final. cians sophomore Ryan Duffey 
needed to do several things bet­

"We've kind of stayed away will attempt to out box fresh­
ter if he is to beat Newberg and

from that all year," Gun said. man Tony Hollowell, who is 
earn a shot at the possibility of

"But I think it would be kind of himself fresh off a spectacular
brawling with his roommate. 

a fun fight" upset victory over defending
"I need to defend much better

But make no mistake about it, champion Matt Fumagalli. 
It's hard to improve the WHOPPER~ but we did. 
The WHOPPER® Value Meal. 

The irresistible WHOPPER® Value Meal. 
A flame-broiled WHOPPER~, fries and an ice-cold drink, Who can say no to flame-broiled perfection? 

Duffey was however equally impressive in his Bengal Bouts debut, scoring a second round TKO in his quarterfinal fight. 
"J think it's going to be an intense fight," Duffey said. "I have a lot of respect him and I think that technique is going to have a lot to do with this fight." 
The taller Duffey will have to take full advantage of his con­siderably longer reach in order to hold Hollowell, the better inside fighter, at bay. 
Since both boxers are rook­ies, neither has much to lose and Duffey anticipates that playing a factor. 
"Neither of us has anything to lose," he said. "I think we're both going to come out there and be aggressive." 
Rounding out the bracket is 

an equally enticing bout 
between sophomore Joshua 
Coleman and junior Jason 
McMahon, both of whom won 
unanimous quarterfinal deci­
sions. 
The two pugilists both count 

quickness as a strong suit, 
making this fight likely to hinge 
on who is best able to sequence 
combinations. 
145. lb. 
Perhaps the night's best fight could be that which pits Michael "Mad Man" Waldo against Andrew "The Golden Arms" Harms. Both Waldo and Harms are sluggers, and neither is much a fan of the defensive style, making this a fun fight to watch. 
Harms enters his semifinal bout on the heels of a grueling quarterfinal match that saw him take a split-decision from Anthony D'Agostino. Waldo had a much easier time of it, winning unanimously. 
Jason Voss, the dark horse of the weight class, will take on Jeman Tisby in the other semifi­nal. 
Tisby is an extremely quick, 
extremely skilled fighter who 
gets inside and works the body. 
Voss knows where his advantage 
lies. 
'Tm taller so I have to use my 
reach," Voss said. "If I can keep 
him at an arm's length, l'll have 
a good shot." 
Both Tisby, a junior from 
Keough Hall, and Voss, a Sorin 
sophomore, won by unanimous 
decision in their quarters. 
LACROSSE 

Glatzel earns player of the week honors 
ing the Irish in scoring with 38 Speci.µ to The Observer 
goals and 18 assists (56 points), tallied all four of his scores in Senior attack Tom Glatzel has 
the second half in the come­been named the Great Western from-behind victory. Lacrosse League (GWLL) Player Glatzel was named the of the Week after scoring four league's player-of-the-week goals and dishing off two assists once last season and also in 11th-ranked Notre Dame's earned national player-of-the week honors after netting four
season-opening 10-8 win on the road at 18th-ranked Penn State. goals and dishing off three Glatzel. an honorable mention 
assists in Notre Dame's 15-13 United States Intercollegiate upset of Loyola in the first Lacrosse Association All­
round of the 200 NCAA tourna­American last season after lead-ment. 
Off-Campus voting will be 



page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wenesday, February 28, 2001 
WOMEN'S GOLF 

Irish get off to slow start in season opener, finish last 
fourth and the University of Martinson (Georgia Southern) The Notre Dame women's golf Snowbird Invitational at the 
Special to The Observer 

Memphis (323-319/642) in fifth. finished third with a 153 (7 5-team returns to action on March Pcbblecreek Golf' Course in Notre Dame's top finisher was 78). 15-16 when they compete at the Tampa, Fla. 
The Notre Dame women's golf 
freshman Shannon Byrne

team closed out the final round 
(Arlington Heights, Ill.) who 

of action at tho Carolina's 
bounced back from a first round

Collegiate Golf Classic on 
91 to shoot a nine-over par 81

Tuesday by shooting a 342 for a 
for a 36-ho!e total of 172 which
36-hole total 


tied her for 77th overall. Senior
of 692 (350­
Shane Smith (St. Petersburg,
342) to fin­
Fla.) finished in a tie for 82nd 
ish 22nd 
with a 173 (87-86). 
among the 
Rounding out the Notre Dame 
22 teams 
finishes was junior Kristin 
participating 
McMurtrie (Calgary, Alb.) with a 
at the b,046­
174 (87-87) for a tie for 85th,
yard, par 72 
Terri Taibl (Elm Grove, Wisc.)
Pinehurst 
was 95th with a 176 (88-88) and
No. 8 golf Smith 
freshman Rebecca Rogers 
course. 
(Alpharetta, Ga.} was 105th with 

The Irish finished the 36-hole 
a 179 (88-91). 

tournament 64 shots off the 
Meaghan Francella. (Memphis) 

__.. pace set by tournament champi­
was the tournament medalist as 

on Campell University who fired 
she followed her opening round 

a 628 (318-310) for an eight­
75 with and even par 72 for a 

stroke win over the College of 
two-day total of three-over par

Charleston (318-318/636) and 
147. She was followed by

North Carolina-Greensboro 
Radford's Stephanie George who 

(316-320/636). Rounding out the 
finished three strokes behind 

top five were Charleston 
Francella with a 150 (78-72).

Southern (323-317/640) in 
First round co-leader Patricia 

The Observer is looking for sports writers. If interested, call Kerry at 1-4543 . 
AMY­
CHEER, CHEER 
FOR YOUR 215T 
BIRTHDAY, 
FEBRUARY 28, 2001 
LOVE, 
MOM, DAD. PAUL, ALI, FRANK. AND DYLAN 
1it.Ir1:·· 
·:·/J}fli::::\={ 

:::::... Aof Peer Advocacy ;J;ltf4~E of Elections 
>:li~eerAdvocate :;'.1~~•:Senate ParI iamentarian 
;;::j:~i:gf •.. 

· WOV.LJ> YOV :I.IKE TO HEI..I? MANAGE A $3JO,OOO STOC!K J?OI\.TFOI..IO? IF SO, C!OME TO THE INVESTMElfT l!i-um·s IlfFO::B..MATIONAI.. MEETilfG WEJ)lfESJ)A.Y, .2/.28/0I J)E:llA.IlTOLO .J.38 7:00 FM  
~~~_,··,.·~......,,.......,.....,,..,,.,...,..._,, ·\i!) ·~illf-~ l.~ wJJ~~~ ~w.J~~~ ~Jl~lf~ Emily Grill won $100 Susan H. $50 WJ.:J ~~ 4 t ~ lj~®lj~j \Af) 11) ·~ ~ UJ~~~~:J ~•,l.:J~~ -~----;!;?­~uj1JllJ • ··~ ~~':· ' A message from the\.llil,l) ru UJ.) ~ .Alcohol & Drug"~ducat1on~Offli!e ~•.·\ 311 La Fortune Student Center Universl~ of Notre ofme Call 1-7970 for more information. 'l'21·9)96sJ;1910 -. http://www.nd.edu/-aldrug/  



Wednesday, February 28, 200l The Obseroer . SPORTS page 19 
had an awful lot more than "We can't spot the No. 2, or that." No. :1, or anyone else in the

Wonten 
After starting off slow in their country that many points and last several games, the Irish expect to recover." Pittsburgh

continued from page 24 
dominated the Panthers from coach Traci Waites told the start to finish. Three consecu­Associated Press. 

had more. "The statistic sheet only had tive lay-ups keyed a 10-0 run McGraw credits her team's that helped the Irish build a 36-shooting; the Irish connected on
iwr for two steals." McGraw 
18 halftime lead. 59.3 percent of their field goalsaid. "It seemed to me that she 




PnE-PAID LEGAL 8ERV1CE~ ·, INC. 
Strru,1t1 AmcricttS familk.s :tin« ~j9~~.-' ··•' C..por•"' O(fo,,.•: J?I Etoet M.tn, J\d•. Ol<la!,.o.,., HS~ :·ti/lli,oi;. 1234 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME THE OBSERVER -AD 
MARKETING REPS WANTED 


Pre-Paid L~gal 5erv!ces, Inc. is 11 :29 year old, publicly tr11ded cqna~1b,(NYSE _ 

RECBIJlTING AND INFORMATIONAL MEETIN~ .. 
,-. '\·l·'._. .Saturday, l\11!1"ch 3, 2001 •Times• l 1:00 a.m., I:01) p.m., 3:00 p.m., 5~~0-p:m. 
Sunday, Marcti 41 2001 -Times -l l :30 a.m. end I :00 p.m.. ]j'. ·( 
.•], ·.... 

Llwui.m: LaFortune Student Union in the Notre Dame Rt,oJli.(t-;· 
'"~---,,_
,:-.: . 

FOR MORE INFORMATION AND To ENROLi, · ·,\: Website: www.prcp,lidlega.l com/go/maurer • E-mail: Mruu-cr@prepaidleg_al.c~!b ,. OR ·a: -[i,· ·\ 
"f~~ Contact th.e Carccer Ccnte:r at Notre Dame or the Counsl"!ing and Career Devcio~iKCenter at 
St. Mary's 

no-K. M.llnr, Gr""p Beadlit, Specialist, la<iepeiallell( ~-. ­12917 N, OakrofQ Drlw, Ste. 3tO. Sl '-'", MO'3Ul -.....(314) 45J..,OSS. ~·(lU)4~! TKMkESULTS@aoleo• · ,'s/i:-; 
SSOCIATES 

Information Meeting 
.. TONIGHT, Feb. 28th .. 11.d 7pm-8pm .. Center for Social Concerns 
This will be a 'Questions andAnswers' session for all ND/SMC students who are thinking about a year of ···service after, graduation. t<Come ask, .or .listen to, questions and concerns " about post-grad servlce and 
Holy Cross Associates. 

Application materials will 2000-2001 Holy Cross Associates from Notre Dame also Le availaLle. 
Applications are now being accepted, with placement priority given to those received by April 1st. (Applications available on-line.) 
Associates are eligible for AmeriCorps Education Awards and Loan Deferments. The Education Award is $4,725 towards loans and/or future education. 

erviog in Arizona, California, Colorado, Massachusetts, Oregon, and Pennsylvania 
htt ://www.nd.edu/~hcassoc/ 
attempts in the opening half. 
"We shot the ball extremely well and that was key for us," McGraw said. "I think it's going to give us a lot of confidence heading in to the Big East tour­nament." 
The other Irish player to score in double-figures was guard Alicia Ratay. The guard totaled 14 points, including two three-point field goals. Freshman Jeneka Joyce hit two more treys off the bench, finish­ing with eight. 
The Irish bench made signifi­cant contributions for the sec­ond time in a week. 
After seeing every player on the roster score against Miami last Tuesday, every player other than senior center Meaghan Leahy hit the scoring column. 
"It's good to gel a lot of pco­pl e in the scoring column." McGraw said. "We're going to need that coming in to the Big East tournament." 
The reserves will be counted 

on to play key minutes as the 
Irish will play three games in 
three days, should they make 
the championship game. 
"I think the bench is playing a 

lot better right now," McGraw 
said. "They're playing with 

some confidence. " 
Sophomore center Amanda Barksdale contributed six rebounds and three blocked shots in 14 minutes. as Riley rested much of the second half. 
-'I thought Mandy Barksdale gave us a huge lift off the bench," McGraw said. 
The game was bittersweet for the Pittsburgh seniors, who were honored for Senior Night before the game. Guard Monique Toney scored 13 points in the final game of her career. 
"She's a good player and a good defender as well," McGraw said. "She had a pretty good game for them." 
The team was pleased to dominate the Panthers, who came in to the Joyce Center on Feb. 7 and stayed within 10 points most of the game. Guard Laine Selwyn led the Panthers with 23 points in that game. She was limited to 15 on six-of­17 shooting Tuesday. 
"We came in making sure 
that we knew who their shoot­
ers were and to get out on them 
because they did have such a 
great game at the Joyce 
Center," Ivey told the Notre 
Dame radio network. 
Coaches 
continued from page 24 
offer, Lockwood accepted immediately. 
"He said, 'do you need to talk to your family?' Lockwood said. "I said, 'No coach, I'll take it.' It was a no­brainer." 
After graduating from West Virginia, Lockwood served as a graduate assistant at his alma mater in 198 9 then accepted a full-time position with Delaware in 1990. He coached Delaware's tight ends and receivers until 1993. The next season, Lockwood went to Memphis as its secondary coach. He was hired by West Virginia in March 2000. The Mountaineers finished the season with a 7-5 record, including a win over Mississippi in the Music City 

Bowl. 
With the unexpected loss of Brock Williams, the Irish sec­ondary will rely on several unproven players in 2001. Regard less, Lockwood plans on implementing mostly man­to-man coverage. 
''I'm sure it will be an 

aggressive, attacking type 
defense," Lockwood said. "But 
I have to sit down and discuss 
it with the rest of the defen­
sive staff." 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 28, 2001 


1 

Two captains continue quest for 175-pound title 
By BRIAN BURKE Spom Writer 

Mark Criniti insists this yoar's 17:i-pound wnight divi­sion is the strongest in the toumcy. Ir you take his word for il, Wednesday's semifinal matches will set the stage for a highly unlicipated Litle bout Friday. Two captains remain alive, both with championships to defend. and their quests to repeat continue tonight. 
Top seeded Hob "A.M.D.G." Joyce lakes on Keith "A Little Ball of Ilate" Arnold in hopes of continuing his success against strong opponents. Arnold took over his quarterfi­nal malch, overwhelming Nathan Scheid in less than a round, but expects much more of a challenge out of Joyce. 
"I don't think Hob's any­where near the fighter that kid was," Arnold said. "I really don't know what I plan on doing. Hob's a bl~tter boxer than m<\, so I'll have to l1gure something out. I wouldn't mind punching it out. but he will want to. he's more tacti­cal." 
Arnol<l perhaps can rely on 
the fact that the rest or the 
175 pounders don't know a 
whole Jot about him. 

"The guys left are all pretty 
good fighters," Arnold said. "I 
think I was just an after­
thought." 

The other 17 5 pound card 
pits second seeded Mark 'Tm 
So Pretty" Criniti against John Lynk. Criniti comes off a domi­nating victory over Brian Colville in which he needed only 58 seconds ol' the second round to earn a TKO. The left hander moved well in the ring, and was able to do damage both to the head and the body. something Lynk will have to prepare for. A key for Criniti will be to move in and out against the hard-hitting Lynk. 
16~pounds 
In the 165-pound division. senior Brian "Nightmare" llobbins enters his second fight of the bouts against Justin "The HesLife Hegular" Myers. llobbins was the only fighter at 165 pounds to receive a preliminary round bye and then defeated Patrick Dillon in the quarterfinals. 
"I have to b'it [Myers] as hard as I can," Hobbins said. "lie likes to go in with that charging stuff. and I need to make him pay every single time." 
With one captain having already been upset in the quarterfinals, Hobbins knows he is a marked man. 
"To knock the captain down 
is a big deal," Ilobbins said. 
"The pressure isn't as much 
for the other guys. If they lose, 
they're supposed to lose. If 
they win it's a big upset, so the 
pressure's on me." 
The other bout at 165 
pounds features Christopher 
"Can't We all Just" Kitalong, 

Tholllpson ready for brawl with Goulet 
By KATIE HUGHES 
Sports Writer 

Josh "Tho Redemon" Thompson is favored to win the 185 class tille. but first ho might just have to learn how to be a brawler. Thompson faces Eric "Superfreak" Goulet tonight, who 
has established himself as an aggressive and often wild boxer. 
"He'll come hard for three 
rounds. I have a slight reach 
advantage, but. if worse comes to 
worse, if it. comes to brawling, I'll 
have to brawl right back," 
Thompson said. 'Tm gonna fight 
as hard as I can. Whatever hap­
pllns tonight, it's interesting look­
ing back. It's gone so fast. f spent 
the first few years learning the 
basics, and now I've switched 
roles. I'm teaching the lirst year 
kids." 

In last. year's 175-pound divi­
sion semifinals, Thompson beal 
Stephen "The Angry Pirate" 
Pfoilfor. Tonight. second seeded 
Pfcilfor will face Scott "The Dark 
llorse" Duba. 
Light Heavyweight 

St'nior captain Pete "Beat the 
Hnp" Byan will step into the ring 
tonight looking for his fourth 
Bengal Bout-; litlr.. In last year's 
heavyweight finals, 

llyan beat Dan Adam for the 
title. Byan will !'ace Ben "No, You're Schmoopie" Deda. 
"I would say I'm more of a boxer than a brawler. A lot of guys say that, but a lot of them are lying," Ryan said. "Deda is a strong. aggressive kid, but I'm confident that if 1 work hard I can win." 
Mike "Raging Bull" Vanderpoel has fought twice this year, beat­ing James Crinion and Stefan Borovina, and will face Kevin Brandl tonight. 
Heavyweight 
Dan "Let Me" Adam lost in the 
finals last year to this year's light 
heavyweight division favorite, 
Pete Ryan. 
"I hope to use a little of what l 
learned fighting Pete in my fights 
this year. I'm going to try to focus 
more on boxing rather than just 
punching. There are lots of bene­
fits to being more of a technical 
boxer," said Adam, who will be 
entering the ring for the first 
time this year in Wednesday's 
bouts. 
Adam will face Steve "Lefty 
Guns" Pratico, who defeated 
Andrew McGuire with just one 
punch on Monday night. 
"I'm gonna try to not get hit by 
Andrew's big left hand," Adam 
said. "It will be a night of great 
flgh_ts." 
Matthew McNichulas will also 
be lighting for the first time this 
year, facing Carlos ..The Master" 
Abeyta. 


clashing with 32 year old grad student Thomas "Boom-Boom" Macias. Kitalong and Macias both had little trouble advanc­ing to the seminfinals. control­ling their fights. Both like to fight in close. and this one could come down to two fight­ers trading punches. 


IllEISTTIUI-ENT 
March 7-10 in New York Citv 
Student booklets on sale Feb. 27 &28 Gate 1(2nd Floor) Joyce Center 9am -5pm $40/book/et (Only 100 booklets available) 
Must show ID -6 ID's per student 
Pick up booklets at Madison Square Garden Refunds will be given if ND doesn't advance 
u Iid II li ii u Ii ll• u .. i Ii 111". II i I.iii t H .. i ; • ''lit. • . • . ·.... I I I . u. 
Wednesday, February 28, 200 l The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
tive. The uplifting response fracture in his left arm -he from his fellow boxers and thinks it was from hitting the
Bengals 
the Kelly's phone call inspired punching bag too hard ­

him to stick with Bengal knocked him out of the chari­
continued from page 24 
Bouts for the rest of his life at ty tournament. 

Although Kelly beat him Notre Dame. "I kept training with it, and solidly, Abdelnour didn't get Abdelnour was looking for­a few days before it started, I disappointed. He had already ward to his second season of tried sparring with J.R. 
fallen in love with the posi-competition when a stress [Mellin. one of last year's cap-
The Faces DI Holy Cross 

New Candidates at Moreau Seminary 
Holy Cross: The Next Generation 
ANSWER ~ 
THECALL '<!:,/ 

www.nd.edu/-vocation 
Jazz Festival 

PREVIEW NIGHT 

tains].'' he said. "I couldn't use my hand to block, and right then, I knew it wasn't going to happen." 
Even though Abdelnour couldn't fight, he gained something more useful to him as a boxer. 
"I think it was that year that I developed my right hand as a weapon," he said. "I couldn't use my left hand for much." 
For Abdelnour, what hurt worse than his stress fracture was the pain of feeling that he might have hurt his chances for something far more prestigious than a Bengal Bouts title -the honor of being named a cap­tain of the boxing club. At the end of the season, three cap­
ta ins  were  named  - and  
Abdelnour  wasn't  among  
them.  

Abdelnour and some of his friends spent the fall semes­ter of his junior year studying in London, but he knew that if he wanted to be a captain, he would have to work harder than he ever had before. 
This included maintaining his fitness level and keeping up with his training in England. 
"If I came out my junior year and showed them my dedication and my junior year, they'd have no choice but to pick me," he said. "It was something I'd wanted since day one." 
Although he was living an ocean away from Notre Dame, that didn't stop Abdelnour from thinking about boxing. He was deter­mined to be a captain. 
"They picked three cap­

tains," he said, "and I really felt they saved that last spot for me." 
Abdelnour's work ethic and improvement caught the eye of the boxing club. Although he lost in the finals of the 165-pound weight class last year to Mellin -who Abdelnour called "the best boxer in the dub" -didn't get upset about the loss. As he said, "I know it was a great fight and I've been feed­ing off that." 
His hard work paid off as he joined Josh Thompson, Brian Hobbins, and Peter Ryan as one of the four senior cap­tains of this year's squad. And the senior knows the responsibility that comes with the leadership role. 
Abdelnour, who is compet­ing in the 160-pound weight class this year, is hungry for his first title, but he knows that there is only a certain amount he can do to win. And as he will quickly tell you, the most difficult thing about boxing isn't about beating your opponent. 
The real battle is just. get­ting into the ring in the first place. 
"When I was a freshmen, getting in the ring was one of the hardest things to do," he said. "When I got out, it made me stronger." 
For those who are able to step into the ring, he says, the personal rewards will be well worth the struggle. 
"When you come out all 

your friends are looking at 
you not because you lost, but 
because you got in there in 
the first place," Abdelnour 
said. 
BASEBALL 

Tamayo, Stanley honored by Big East 
pitches). He allowed just
Special to The Observer 

three hits and one walk in 
the shutout stint while facing 
Two Notre Dame baseball 20 batters (two over mini­players were recognized by mum), thanks to pair of dou­the Big East Conference for ble-play balls. their accomplishments during In other news this week, the week of 
Notre Dame (5-1) maintained Feb. 19-25, its No. 11 spot in the as junior Baseball America poll while centerfleld­moving up from 12th to 11th er Steve in the Collegiate Baseball poll Stanley and jumping from 12th to was named 10th in the USA Today/ESPN the confer­coaches poll. ence's co-Stanley currently ranks player of Tamayo second among Notre Dame the week regulars with a .407 season w h i I e batting average, trailing only senior righthander Danny the .650 mark owned by Tamayo was tabbed the Big sophomore rightfielder Brian East pitcher of the week. Stavisky (who last week was 
Stanley led a Notre Dame named the Big East player of offense that batted a com­the week and national player bined .369 while winning of the week by CB). three games at last week's Stanley's other season stats Alamo Invitational in San include seven runs scored. Antonio, Texas. The speedy three RBI, a double, two lefthander posted a team-best walks and 3-of-5 on stolen .583 batting average (7-for-base attempts. 
12) in those games, with four Tamayo's two starts in runs scored, two RBI, three 2001 have yielded a 1-1 stolen bases, two walks and a record and 1.64 ERA, plus 13 sacrifice bunt. Ks, one walk and nine hits. 
Tamayo was the winning allowed in 11 innings pitcher in the 7-4 game ver­pitched. sus Sam Houston State, out­Stanley's big game last dueling Bearkats ace pitcher week was a 4-for-5 effort in Joe Fowler (who beat Texas the 7-4 win over Sam A&M earlier in the week, 2-Houston State. He helped put 1). Tamayo posted a career -the Bearkats away with a sin­best 10 strikeouts vs. SHSU, gle and run scored in the sev­including five straight at one enth inning (for a 5-1 lead) point and five "looking" du_r­and an RBI single in the ing his six-inning outing (94 eighth (7-4). 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 28, 2001 

Owens to face Matassa in I50-pound semifinals 
llogtown Hurricane" McDonald, semifinals. receiving a bye to the By JEFF BALTRUZAK seemingly landing almost every quarters. His quarterfinal Sports Wrircr punch. Heckman also displayed match was canceled because his a strong ability to get inside and opponent. Robert "Little Mac" land punches close to his oppo­McColgan was out of town for a
Chris "Shezzy" Matassa enters nent. job interview. 
tonight's bout against Tom 
"He's an extremely aggressive Dobosh faces junior Paul "He­
"T.K." Owens having fought just 
fighter and he's in good shape," Man" Mehan, the winner overfour minutes in the entire Bengal said McGree. "I want to try to Daniel "The Mauler" McCoy.
Bouts competition thus far. He stay composed and counter what Mehan fought well throughoutreceived a bye to the quarters he throws at me." the quarterfinal match, aggres­and defeated Julian "Bel Biv" sively establL'>hing the tone of theDevoe in a referee-stopped fight fight in the first round, and stay­on Monday. 155 lbs. 
ing consistent throughout all
Owens, on the other hand. has Sean "The Erie Kid" Nowak three rounds.
fought two rairly tight bouts. faces Tom "Frenchman" Pierce winning in the preliminaries by in the first semifinal in the a unanimous decision but only weight class. Nowak is probably 160 lbs. defeating John ''The Knockout" the hardest puncher in the class, Dennis "Thursday Night" Nowak in a split decision on as shown when he violently Abdclnour is looking to power Monday night, a fight where lloored Joe "The Polish Tank" his way into the finals, but will Owens could not gain the deci­Czerniawski on Monday night. have to get through Mike "The sive upper hand. That fight was controversially Militia Man" Melby first. Melby is 
Owens will need his best box­ended after that knockdown a solid fighter, having won his ing to come against the junior after the referee judged last two fights by unanimous Matassa. a tighter with a strong Czneriawski unable to continue. decision and referee stoppage 
jab as well as good feet. The sophomore Pierce won a respectively. 
The other semifinal features narrow split decision against For Abdelnour, winning his another winner of a split deci­Steve "The Natural Lightweight" bout and in turn the champi­sion versus a very strong !ighter. Keppel in his last bout. He will onship has much to do with bay. Abdelnour will need to get 
Tucker "The Wicked Bad have to work hard not to get hit desire. The senior captain is inside and land one of the Bostonian" McGree narrowly squarely by Nowak, who has looking for his first Bengal Bouts vicious hooks that he showcased defeated Luke "Desperado" shown he has considerable one­crown. on Monday night against Vince punch power. "I want it," said Abdelnour. "I ".The Italian Meatball"
Busam. a fight that saw even action until McGree put together "My strategy is not to get hit by know the other guys want it, but DeGennaro. that haymaker," Pierce said. I want it more." The second fight in the class
a strong combination of punches just prior to the final bell. "He's taller, so I want to be abie Melby hardly represents an just might turn into a classic 
McGree will have an extremely to get in and out well and be easy path to the finals. The brawl. It features two boxers 
tough time against Brock aware of the right." sophomore has an excellent jab that know how to punch, and "Landers" I leckman. The junior Jeff "The Pittsburgh Kid" coupled with an extensive reach punch hard -Joe Smith and 
Dobosh had the easiest route the that has kept previous fighters at Travis "Posse" Alexander.
Heckman hammered Matt "The 
...... 

FAT TUESDAY PARTY 
5-7pm Sorin Room 
COLLEGIATE JAZZ. FEST 
Tickets available at LaFortune box office 
MILKPLOW 
a rock band Alumni Senoir Club, Thursday, 10:30pm
-
ACOUSTICAFE' 
The Huddle, Thursday, 9pm 
MOVIES @DEBARTOLO
Unbreakable 

Smith's victory in the quarters was decidedly one-sided. scoring two standing eight counts against Patrick "El Chipotle" Hobbins. 
Alexander faced a more diffi­cult time against Jeff "Re Re" Ream. but still was impressive. He pounded Ream with loud body blows in the final round, and secured a much-deserved unanimous decision. 

Debartolo 101, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, 8 & 10:30pmThe Sixth Sense Debartolo 155, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, 8 & 10:30pm 

The Observer . TODAY 

=Wi=e=d=n=es=d=ay~=F=eb=r=u=a~=2=8;;o=~I=================================~~~~========================================~~a~~;;' -­

EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
28 It may be 60 When repeated, 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON conflicts with jealous co-workers. 
ACROSS 

THIS DAY: Bernadette Peters, You can expect a family member 
upside-down an Ivy League1 Like many a 
Mario Andretti, Gavin MacLeod, to be unpredictable. 00
wrestler 31 Fireplace tune 
Elisa Fiorillo, John Turturro, VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22):
61 Social

6 Balance sheet 35 Org. with a Tangi Miller You need to put your talents on item much-cited Happy Birthday: Take it easy, display. Don't be afraid or too shy 
introduction? 10 One of a great journal 62 Baltic port and you can have whatever you to show others how valuable you quintet 36 Needing 63 Packing heat want as long as you don't force are. You'll be surprised how issues. Good fortune will be many people are willing to pay
14 _ Rogers St patches 64 • here 
yours as long as you project a for your work. 00000
Johns 37 Micromanager's long?" 
helpful, giving image. Com­LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22):15 Alice's concern 65 Object of blind petition can be expected, but if Property investments will be chronicler 38 Middle of the devotion you are steadfast, winning fruitful, but don't be pushed into 16 Beasts in a span quip 66 Aggressive sort should not be that difficult. You joint financial ventures with 
......
will see your opponent clearly someone who is not completely
17 Purple shade 41 Grand 
must be strategic in implement­trustworthy. 000
18 Plowman's need 42 It's insurable DOWN 
ing your game plan. Your mun­SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
19 Cutlass maker, 43 Ike's command, 1 Java neighbor 
bers: 13, 17, 33, 36, 41, 45 Sudden romantic infatuations briefly once: Abbr. 2 Tinker with, in a ARIES (March 21-April 19): may throw.Jou for a loop. Take 20 Start of a quip 44 Small songbirds way You will explode if you are forced your time · you wish things to to deal with relatives who don't work in your favor. Be honest
about middle 45 Blackthorn fruit 3 Fish lacking 
see your point of view. Make and direct for best results. 000
age ventral fins 
46 Ruse financial investments with SAGfITARIUS (NO'l 22-Dec Z1l:
23 "Star Wars" 
47 Blame bearer 4 Full of holes extreme caution 00 Put your efforts into your career.
walk-ons 
5 Spinnaker's TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You will accomplish the most if
49 Smoker or diner
24 Kachina doll place Make your plans carefully and be you are willing to present your
51 End of the quip 
makers sure to include the one you love. ideas and follow through on your
6 Extremely,

25 Embellish, in a 58 Steinbeck hero Travel for business or pleasure promises. 000
informally 

way 59 Scads will bring successful results. 000 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan.19):
7"_ .. _saw 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Yciu can make physical changes to Elba" Opportunities to get ahead enhance your appearance today. ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE B Cheerful financially are evident. Your luck Get into a fitness routine, or start 9 Old TV sidekick will run high. Talcing advantage working on that new image you've
Puzzle by Alan Arbesfeld 

of moneymaking investments wanted to project. 00000
P A L i-ii~..;...,1...;;. A M A N 10 Investigate 
30 Smalt hill 48 Arcade name 54 List ender will prove lucrative. Follow your AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):E L I 11 Linchpin's place instincts and pursue your Self-improvement should be your 
32 Court attention­50 Chance to swing 55 Win big

A L 12 Reebok dreams. 000 prime concern today. Look into 
getter

competitor 51 Calisthenics 56 Virginia's Robert CANCER (June 21-July 22): ways to change your look, or 33 Be still, at sea improve it Social events will lead to roman­expand your awareness in such a
13 Pulver's rank: 

34 N.F.L. great tic encounters. Your compas­way that you attain your goals or 
Abbr. 52 Motive for some 57 Arp movement 
Hirsch sionate nature will win the heart attract individuals who will bene­
21 Accompanist? crime 

58 Front end of a of someone in need of your fit you. 000
36 Smith's partner 
22 Pricing word 

53 Full of energy one-two sensitive nurturing. Be careful PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 25 Bochco TV 37 Cause for a not to let anyone take advantage Your temper will flare out of hand recall of you. 0000 if someone threatens your princi­
drama 

39 Kipling classic Answers to any three clues in this puzzle LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Put in ples. Avoid confrontations at
26 Love affair 

27 Place to 40 Earth Summit are available by touch-tone phone: some overtime and get ahead in group meetings. Put your efforts 
your work. Concentrate on your into helping those who need and 
site 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute).

practice driving career objectives and try to avoid want your assistance. 00 
45 Stone-faced Annual subscriptions are available for the posers are 46 Monk's home, best cit Sunday crosswords from the last 50 Birthday Baby: No one is likely to push you into doing anything N O E L E N L A I N presented maybe years: 1-888·7-ACROSS. that you don't want to do. You are strong-willed, engagin~ and will be admired. Your determined nature will lead to loyal friends and vehement opponents. (Need advice? Oieck out Eu~enia's Web sites at astroadvke.com, 
eugenialaslcom, astromate,com.) 
C> 2001 Universal Press Syndicate 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
----~-~~-----------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name _____________________-,­
Address -------------------~ City -----~-State ____ Zip______ 



Road to the finals 
The semifinals ofBengal Bouts take place tonight at lhe Joyce Center. Boxers will be competing for a spot in Frida.t(s tille bouts. 
PORTS 
p. 17, 20 & 22 
nJ_HE 

page 24 VtlSERVER 
Tuesday, February 27, 2001 
BENGAL BOUTS 

Abdelnour seeks first Bengal Bouts title 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
Three years ago. Dennis Abdclnour stepped into the boxing ring as a wide-eyed freshman and stared at his opponent in the other corner -senior co-cap­tain Fred Kelly. 

It would be nice to say that the young underdog upset the defending champion in his Bengal Routs debut. But as Ahdelnour will readily say, that didn't come anywhere close to hap­pening. 
"I got out of the ring and felt I got beat up. destroyed, and made a fool out of." he said. 
It took an unexpected comment to jolt the freshman out of his dis­appointment -a com­ment that Abdelnour still remembers three years after his first fight. 

"The first thing some­one said after that fight was. 'You did unbeliev­able." even after I took a beating," he said. "It really surprised me. I guess everyone was just really proud." 
At that moment. Abdelnour realized that fighting in the Bengal Bouls was more than just a charity boxing tourna­ment or a fight with another boxer. 
It was a measure of inner strength. "I wanted to get in 
there and prove to myself and prove to everyone else that I wasn't just a bum," he said. "I wanted to prove that I could stand in there with the best and stay standing ­and I did." 
Abdelnour so impressed Kelly that he got a phone call later that night from the senior. 
''I was still a little dejected. but Kelly called me and said, 'Hey, listen, you did a great job. I hope you come back next year.' IL was then that I realized that I've got to work if I want to suc­ceed," Abdelnour said. "I think that's been my atti­tude that year and every year after." 
He's certainly come a long way since he showed up lo boxing practice as a tall, skinny freshman. Abdelnour, who is left­handed, didn't even have a jab or any strength in his right hand for that matter. He spent the ·next six weeks training hard and improving his tech­nique. 
But that didn't make getting in the ring for his first match any easier. 
"I had only been boxing for six weeks. I just didn't know what was going to happen," he said. "Every year, it's just as hard to get in the ring in front of all those peo­ple." 
see BENGALS/page 21 


WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Siemon leads Notre Dame to 82-63 victory 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Assiscanr Sports Edicor 

Once again, Kelley Siemon has proven that she has unparalleled toughness. 
The senior power forward -already playing with a brace on her fractured hand -didn't even get in to Pittsburgh until Tuesday afternoon. 
Just 24 hours after she lay in bed at the infirmary with an upset stomach, Siemon led the Irish to victory. Despite still feeling nauseous at tip-off. Siemon scored 17 points and grabbed eight rebounds in No. 2 Notre Dame's 82-63 win over Pittsburgh. 
"She was a real catalyst getting the break going for us," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said of Siemon. "She got in today and really wasn't feeling well even at game time. I'm so impressed with her." 
That Siemon had the strength to play 30 minutes was nothing short of a miracle. The senior ate nothing but soup before the game. 
"I couldn't keep anything down," Siemon told the Associated Press after the game. 
The victory sent Notre Dame (26-1, 15-1 in the Big East) into the Big East Tournament this weekend as the No. 1 seed for the first time ever. The loss ended the season for the Panthers (9-18, 3-13), as they failed to qualify for the tourna­ment. 
The Irish have a bye for first-round action and take on the winner of the 

Saturday contest between the No. 8 and 
No. 9 teams Sunday afternoon. Two teams 
out of a pool of Georgetown, Syracuse and 
Miami will take part in that game. 
"It's a great tribute to the seniors, they've had a lot of firsts this year in a lot of different things,'' McGraw said. ''I'm just so happy for them, they've done so much for this program." 
Tuesday night was no exception. 
Siemon 's efforts were backed up by class­
mates Ruth Riley and Niele Ivey. Riley 
contributed 10 points and two blocks in 
only 20 minutes. 
Ivey scored 15 points, dished out nine · assists and was credited with two steals. McGraw felt her fifth-year point guard 
see WOM~N/page 18 
FOOTBALL 
Irish add three new coaches 
By TIM CASEY 
Assisrant Spores Edicor 
Twelve years ago, David Lockwood was a starting cor­nerback for West Virginia in the 1989 Fiesta Bowl against Notre Dame. The Irish claimed their 11th national champi­onship that day with a 34-21 victory over tlrn Mountaineers. 
On Tuesday. Lockwood was once again linked with the Notre Dame program. This time. Lockwood was named as an Irish assistant coach. Lockwood, who spent the 2000 season at West Virginia. will serve as the cornerbacks coach. He replaces Jerry Rosburg, who is now the spe­cial teams coach with the Cleveland Browns. 
Lockwood has spent the past few days in Orlando with the Irish coaching staff. 
"It's a great opportunity to get around the guys without worrying about football," Lockwood said on the phone on Tuesday. "It's been really fun. But I'm anxious to get there and coach spring prac­tice. It's like a dream come true." 
Bill Sheridan (safeties) and Joker Phillips (wide receivers) were also officially named as assistants on Tuesday. Earlier this month, The Observer reported that that both Sheridan and Phillips would be hired but first had to pass the mandatory background checks for prospective coach­es. Sheridan, the linebackers coach since 1998 at Michigan State, arrived in South Bend a few days ago while Phillips, the Minnesota wide receivers coach for the past two sea­sons, arrived last night. Both were unavailable for comment on Tuesday. 
Lockwood interviewed with coach Bob Davie on Feb. 8 but was not offered the position until Feb. 21. In the mean­time, on Feb. l 6, Lockwood declined an offer to become the defensive backs coach at Syracuse. . 
"It was very even (between staying at West Virginia or leaving) but a:, it went on. I couldn't pull the trigger." Lockwood said. "I'm glad I didn't. I gue.~s things happen for a reason. 
When Davie called with an 
see COACHES/page 18 
Men's LacrosseSoftballat Northwestern

~"1 at Ohio State
... at Jacksonville State 
SPORTS 
'·•::----•" Thursday, 3 p.m. 
Sunday, I p.m.

Friday, 2 p.m.
ATA 
vs. Georgetown
Baseball 

at Western Michigan at Florida Atlantic Sunday, 2 p.m. 
. ~-Friday, 7:30 p.m. 
GLANCE 
Friday, l p.m. 








