
Blame Davie foe team's performance, not patriotism
PARTLY 

Friday

CLOUDY 

Football coach Bob Davie was simply following admirtistrators' directions by keeping the team in the locker room. 
SEPTEMBER28, 
HIGH 63° 
Editorial . page 11 
2001 
LOW 49° 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL. XXXV NO 24 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



Mother preaches tolerance 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News Editor 
.Judy Shepard doesn't expect her work end anytime soon, although the gay rights activist wishes she were out of a job. 
"I know that good things are going to happen," Shepard told a rapt Notre Dame audience Thursday, "and they're going to happen soon. And I'll be out of work, but that's a good thing," she said. 
Shepard, whose son, Matthew, died in a highly pub­licized October 1998 anti-gay hate crime, spoke before a capacity crowd of about 200 students, faculty, staff and South Bend residents. 
The University's Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs sponsored the talk to promote campus unity with homosexual and bisexual members of the Notre Dame community. 
Shepard on Thursday deliv­ered an emotional speech that inspired tears as readily as it did laughs from the Hesburgh Library Auditorium gathering. 
As Shepard read from a vic­tim-impact statement she gave during sentencing of one of her son's killers, many students sobbed openly and wiped tears from their faces. 
'Tl! never understand why anyone would want to hurt Matt," she read from the April 1999 statement. "Such an act of cruelty is incomprehensi­ble." 
Matthew Shepard died after two men beat, robbed and left him tied to a fence in the Wyoming prarie. 
Each man is now serving two life sentences in prison. 
Shepard said she didn't hold the men ultimately responsible for her 21-year-old son's death. 
"I blame society for what happened to Matt," she said. 
see SHEPARD/page 4 


Student to appear on College Jeopardy 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
News Writ~r 
"Who Wants to Be a Millionaire" may be a favorite game show for many students, but not Andrew Nerlinger, who is competing 
in JEOP­ARDY!' s College Edition in November. 
"I like JEOPARDY! more than 'Millionaire,"' 


the St. Nerlinger 
Edward's senior said. "I met Regis here and told him I was going to be on JEOP­ARDY! He didn't think that was funny." 
Nerlinger registered for College JEOPARDY! when he was playing the online game during the summer. He was randomly chosen as one of 1,500 college students picked to try out for the special November series. In August, Nerlinger traveled to Baltimore to take a 50 question test and participate in a mock run of the show. 
"It was cool just to pass the test," he said. 
Nerlinger's experience with the game show, however, didn't end in Baltimore. The senior received a letter at the end of September inviting him to participate in the two-week college tournament at UCLA. The 10 shows, featuring 15 college students from around the country, will be taped over a two-day period starting on 
see JEOPARDY/page 4 


Security/Police arrests fugutive in Roseland Park 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
News Writer 
Notre Dame Security/Police recaptured a suspect behind the Signature Inn in Roseland Park after he J1ed from police custody at UniVfirsity Village. 
Police said the man was charged with possession of stolen property and resisting arrest by flight. _ ­
According to Chuck Hurley, assistant direcl.or of NDSPD, Security originally responded to a complaint from a woman in University Village that the sus­pect was attempting to break into her apartment. Security officers responding to the call detained a man matching the description of the suspect on Saint Mary's Road. 
The man was taken into cus­tody by Security an<! brought to University Village. The victim identified the su·spect as the man who was attempting to break into her apartment. 
Whlle Security officers attempted to handcuff the man, he escaped, ran across U.S. 933 and fled behind Denny's Restaurant. Security, along with St. Joseph County Police and Roseland Police, recap­tured the suspect when he was hiding in the bushes in Roseland Park. 
When Security searched the suspect, officers discovered 

items from a wallet that had befln rnported stolen from Galvin life Science Center on Monday. 
Security will invc_stigate his possible involvement in other campus larcenies. 
"He's been here and passed through some campus build­ings," Hurley said. "So we are going to be looking into his pos­sible involvement in other crimes." 
Hurley said there have been no other recent robberies reported at University Village, but there have b-een recent thefts fr.om other campus build­
ings. 

The case has been forwarded to the prosecutor's office who will investigate the incident and may choose to press charges against the suspect for attempt­ed breaking and entering. 
Contact Mike Connolly at 
connolly.28@nd.edu. 

-.. ·---­
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Friday, September 28, 2001 

INSIDE COLUMN THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 
Happily never after 
We're told early on, by way of once-upon-a­time fairy tales and Disney movies, that the key to success is finding someone with whom you can share your life. Finding true love will break the spell, slay the dragon and cue the "happily ever after" ending credits 
every time. 
As we grow older, howev­er, we're told to forget the fairy tale, that sharing can wait and it's better to focus on yourself and have a good time toasting your own suc­cesses. This small contra­diction of life's instructions 

prompts the question: Jacqueline Better to be single or com­Browder mitted? 
It's the double cliche of 
Scene Copy

walking a fine line with a double-edged sword. We Editor want it both ways. 
According to any coffee table magazine (Cosmopolitan, Maxim, take your pick), being single is synonymous with being fabulous. With this solo mentality screaming at us from glossy pages filled with toned models and tips on how to "meet 'em and wow 'em,'' what's not to love? It's all rather enticing. Suddenly, a relationship seems to have the appeal of entering a dragon's lair with neither weapon nor trusty sidekick. It's just not something that you want to do. 
It's the same with television. Tuning into any of the must-see TV shows, leading the single life looks pretty good. Who wouldn't want to be hanging out in the city, drinking coffee and engaging in witty banter? 
However, if you look a little closer, the mes­sage is unclear. These magazines and televi: sion shows may tell you that this mind-blowing single life is where it's at. but the majority of the articles and plot lines dedicate themselves to finding, getting and keeping a relationship. Suddenly, the coin flips (thus the double edged sword mentioned above). 
What do we want? Two very differing views of how we should be living our young lives are thrust at us on a daily basis, and we're told to choose the right path. 
There's certainly something to be said (or maybe it was something said once upon a time) about sharing your time and self with another person. Yet, we're still told that this is the time of our lives, our best years and as good as it's going to get. Why not live it up? Date around. Meet people. Don't tie ourselves down. So, we don't. We become single. 
Yes, the single life. We're young, we're free and ... we're stil!,looking. If it's the thrill of the chase that does it for you, then you're set. Set, that is, until you run out of breath. Sudden.ly, rather than living this glamorous high life found on the pages of Glamour and in Aaron Spelling dramas, you're alone. But isn't that what you wanted in the first place? 
If we don't know what we want, can there possibly be a happy ending? Or at least a happy medium? We can't have it both ways, but eventually we get to live our personal fairy tale, even if it's fractured one. 
And no matter how much they'd like to, mass media can't dictate the individual decisions we make. Sure, they can draw that fine line. sharpen the sword and tell you that single life is fabulous. However, they'll never tell you that single is happily ever after. 
Contact Jacqueline Browder atjbrowder@nd.edu 
The uiews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the duthor and not nec:essarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 
Screenings of"Apocalypse Nawn will not be shown in South Bend theaters this weekend. Information in the Scene section of the Sept. 27 edition of the Observer was incorrect. The Observer regret. this error. 
The Observer regards itselfas a professional publication and mives for the highest standard., ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation P"riods. The Ob.ervcr i, a mcmbct ofthe Aisodaieci P,.... All reproduction righu ace «served. 
Malloy inauguration scheduled Wednesday, September 23, 1987 Father Edward Malloy was formally installed as the University's 16th president. Malloy was preceded by 15 Holy Cross priests, but they all took office without the traditional academic ritual. This was the first presiden­tial inauguration in Notre Dame's 145-year history. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports



BEYOND CAMPUS 

Displaced NYU students return with caution 
NEW YORK 
Students returned to New York University's Water Street dorm Wednesday with mixed feelings about their safety. 
With dust still covering the streets and sidewalks and the downtown area continuing to -emanate an acrid smell, students were concerned about returning to the area. 
'Tm worried about the air quality. 1 heard private companies tested the air and found high levels of asbestos and fiber glass," Michelle Napoli, a College of Arts and Science sopho­more, said. 
Napoli used to have a view of the World Trade Center towers from her room. 
"I feel less safe being close to everything," Stern School of Business 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

Report gauges impact of aid policy 
PRINCETON, N.J. 
During an annual report presentation to the faculty on the status of undergraduate admissions last week, Dean of the College Nancy Malkiel said last week that Princeton University's change in financial aid policy last January greatly affected the composition of the Class of 2005. Malkiel noted that 46 percent of the freshman class is receiving financial aid -the highest percentage of all the Ivy League schools and a signifi­cant jump from the 40 percent of the Class of 2004 receiving financial aid. Malkiel also said there was an increase in the racial diversity of the freshman class. The percentage of minority students in the Class of 2005 is 28.9 percent compared to 26.3 percent of the Class of 2004. According to President Tilghman, how­ever, it is too soon to conclude what the full impact of the University's financial aid policy change will be on "the spectrum of students who apply to Princeton and those who [are accepted]." 


LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

AccuWealher~forecast for daytime conditions and hi h temperatures 
J 
4,Q,~8 Q. Q (f 


Shl>W91S f.slorms Rain Rutrfes Snow le& Sunny Via ASIIOC/ctl&d Puua Gi~Na, 
.. · : 


... .. I •. . . . . 
•••·••"•""'·": :•• .......••••·•.. •· .. •:: 
,,,,,.. ··.······.... i ..... · ...,, 

sophomore Raj Brahmbhatt said. "How can the air quality be safe when there are rooms with asbestos?" 
However, the University maintains that the air quality is safe. Lynne Brown, vice president of Student 
~ d 
Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 
Plan to increase diversity postponed 
LOS ANGELES 

Plans to institute a program designed to increase the number of minority students in the University of California have been put on hold until next year due to lack of funds. The university has postponed the dual admissions plan, citing the state legislature's failure to provide the UC's request for $2.5 million before it went into recess last week. "The legislative clock ran out on us at a time when the state is facing some very bleak budget choices," said Michael Reese, assistant vice president of strategic communications for the UC Office 
-of the President. Because the state legislature is in recess, the UC cannot pursue funding for the program until it reconvenes in January. According to the dual admissions plan, students in the top 4 to 12.5 percent of their high school class would be guaranteed UC admission, provided they complete two years at a com­munity college. It would have taken effect for the class of fall 2003 and transfer students in 2005. 


NATIONAL WEATHER 

The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Friday, Sept. 28. 
C>2001 AccuWealhet,lnc. GOLD WARM STATIONARY 

Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloud';' 

vtaAtJ.oocinltldPrrlsa  
Atlanla  76  53  Las Vegas  97  69  Portland  66  53  
Baltimore  65  48  Memphis  78  53  Sacramento  80  53  
Boston  59  50  Milwaukee  61  50  St. Louis  71  50  
Chicago  64  49  New York  64  52  Tampa  81  69  
Houston  81  62  Philadelphia  66  52  Washington DC 67  51  

"World News Tonight" features Hesburgh 
Monday, September 24, 1979 An ABC-TV "World News Tonight" segment featuredin­tervicws with Notre Dame President Father Theodore Hesburgh and Father James Burtcheall, a university theology professor. Hesburgh addressed the change in the American Catholic Church, and Burtchaell spoke on the topic of abortion. 
Affairs, said Water Street was reopened after utilities were turned back on, the rooms were cleaned, environmental tests were conducted and contam1nated rooms cleaned again. 
"I don't feel any less safe at Water Street than any other part of the city," CAS junior Christina Hultholm said. 
"I would live here again. I don't feel any different because of this not to live here again," General Studies Program sophomore Nabila Sheikh said. 
Students also voiced their concerns about getting settled into the school year. "I had such a hard time adjust­ing to classes because all my note­books and books were [at Water Street]." Napoli said. 
-----~ ----------------~ ----­
Friday, September 28, 2001 The Observer . NEWS page 3 
PUTTING ON A HIT 

Special to the Observer 
Choro na Feira, a Brazilian music group from Rio de Janeiro, will visit the University this weekend for performances on campus and in South Bend and Chicago. Sponsored by the Brazilian Ministry of Culture, the group will be hosted by Notre Dame's Kellogg Institute for International Studies. 
The eight members of Charo na Feira will perform tonight at 7 p.m. at the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. The concert is free and open to the public. 
Additional appearances by the group will include workshops and performances at South Bend area schools throughout the week and an informal con­cert Sept. 29 at 10 a.m. at the South Bend Farmer's Market, followed by a performance at Chicago's Rooster Blues Club that evening. 
Charo na Feira came together after the group performed at a Saturday street market in a Rio de Janeiro neighborhood. Members include university pro­fessors, recording artists and studio musicians. 


Toll of NY missing drops to 5,960 
combing the. wreckage for

. Associated Press 
evidence in the criminal 
investigation of the attack. 

NEW YORK Jim Abadie, the site man­
Mayor Hudolph Giuliani ager for crane owner 8ovis 
said Thursday that the offi­Lend Lease, said the larger 
cial number of people miss­pieces of debris hauled out of 
ing at the World Trade the wreckage will be trucked 
Center had dropped to 5,960 to a nearby pier and trans­
after multiple lists of the vic­ported by barge to Staten 
t i ID S Island. 
w e r e Abadie said 
double­he has been at 
checked. "ft was chaos. Now it's the site since 
T h the beginning.
e controlled chaos." 
number "It was 
of miss­chaos," he 
i n g Jim Abadie said. "Now it's 
reported Site manager for crane owner controlled to police chaos."
Bovis Lend Lease
h a d b e e n 6, 3 4 7 
for sev­
eral days. Giuliani said the revision was made after duplications were found on lists provided by some of the 63 countries that lost people in the trade center attack. 
The mayor also said 4,620 names have been registered as missing at a city center for victims· relatives. The cor­rect number -the one many fear will be the true death toll -is likely somewhere between the two, Giuliani said. 
Authorities so far have con­firmed 305 deaths since two hijacked jetliners brought down the twin 1,350-foot towers Sept. 11. 
At ground zero, heavier equipment has been moved in to remove rubble from the 16-acre site. Crews have begun assembling a 420-foot crane that can handle up to 1,000 tons. 
Since the attack, 128,050 tons of debris -only about 10 percent of what the Army Corps of Engineers estimates is there -have been removed and taken to a land­fill on Staten Island for analysis. 
More aggressive removal methods and equipment have not been used because of the search for bodies and sur­vivors. Workers are also 
As wreckage 
was pulled 
away and 
workers picked through the ruins looking for victims, authorities showed the site to small groups of relatives of those missing or confirmed killed. 
. ' I At City Hall, Giuliani ' 
' 
obtained the support of two i of the three mayoral candi­dates for a plan that would allow him to stay in office for three extra months to help the city recover from the attack. 
Democrat Mark Green and Republican Michael Bloomberg agreed to go along with Giuliani's propos­al, which would postpone the new mayor's inauguration until April. The mayor is sup­posed to leave office Dec. 31 under a city term limits law. 
Across the rest of the city, some commuters faced their first day of mandatory car­pooling. Noncommercial pas­senger vehicles with only the driver inside were turned back during the morning rush hour, causing some traffic delays. The restric­tions were imposed as a way of clearing traffic jams in Manhattan caused by the attack and heightened secu­rity. 
Higher traffic volume was expected Friday, following the Jewish holiday of Yorn Kippur. 


page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, September 28, 2001 
Jeopardy 
continued from page 1 
Oct. 5 and are set to air in November. 
"It'll be a lot of fun. I'll have my Notre Dame sweatshirt on," Nerlinger said. "It will be an exciting trip." 
Nerlinger, who is working on a math and philosophy double major and plans to attend med­ical school next year, said he is confident despite his lack of preparation for the show. He's hoping that his favorite cate­gories, science, math and theol­ogy, will appear on the game screen. 
"I didn't prepare at all for the tryout," he said. "I heard about [getting accepted] two weeks ago and haven't had much time with the demands of school." 
"You can't cram all the facts you need to win in two weeks," he added. 
Nerlinger was on his high school's Quiz Bowl team in Wilmington, Del. As a senior. he was voted most likely to be on JEOPARDY! 
"All my high school friends think it's hysterical,'' he said. 
While at Notre Dame. Nerlinger has been active in stu­dent government and events with St. Edward's Hall. Last year he joined the fencing team as a walk-on. 
"It's the only event where they provide you with the equipment 
and time to stab people with 
swords," he said. 
Nerlinger is involved in ser­vice as well. He recently estab­lished a $10,000 charity fund with a grant from the Raskolo Foundation after his grandfa­ther passed away two summers ago. The fund is used to send disadvantaged people to Notre Dame home football games. Next month, three people select­ed by the Notre Dame club of Delaware from Nerlinger's hometown will travel to South Bend to watch the Navy game on an all-expenses paid trip courtesy of the fund. 
"He's the nicest person in the world," sophomore Larry Hofman said of his roommate. 'Tm really excited for him. I might actually go out there if I can get a ticket to Los Angeles. No one deserves this more than 
h• n
lll. 

College JEOPARDY! will air· Nov. 7-13, 14-16, 19 and 20. The day each contestant com­petes will not be decided until they arrive in California for the taping, but Nerlinger hopes the Notre Dame community will tune in for the series. 
"It would be cool to have as many people as possible watch­ing the show here," he said. "I want to get the word out." 
Contact Andrew Thagard at thagard.l@nd.edu. 
Shepard 
continued from page l 

"They did not allow Matt to be who he was. And they let those two young men believe that they could do what they. did to Matt and get away with it." 
A "sic" -silent, indifferent, complacent -society killed her son, according to Shepard. 
"I think that maybe that's . changed in the last two and a half weeks. I hope so," she said. 
Shepard and husband Dennis established the Matthew Shepard Foundation in response to the hate crime. She tours the nation speaking to audiences about making schools and com­munities safe. 
Shepard also has lobbied the Wyoming legislature and the 
U.S. Congress to draft anti-hate crime legislation. 
On Thursday, Shepard urged the crowd to actively work to be more tolerant. 
Voting and getting involved in organizations arc good ways for people to address issues that concern them, Shepard said. Ironically, she pointed out that authorities who treated her son found a voter registration card in his wallet. 
She also encouraged people to not hide their sexual orienta­
tion. 
''It's so important to be hon­est with the world," Shepard said. "Until everyone is out and comfort­able, the straight community will still be ignorant and fearful 
"Until everyone is out she said. "Every corpora­
and comfortable, the 
tion, and a uni­

straight community will versity is a cor­
still be ignorant and poration, needs to have a non­
fearful ofwho you are. " 
discrimination clause in place. Judy Shepard Just like in most places,
Mother of gay hate crime victim 
of who you are." 
The occasion inspired one South Bend resident to announce to the audience that he was gay. The man said he had only ever admitted the fact to members of a gay-rights group. 
The acknowledgement drew applause from the crowd. 
Shepard, who received stand­ing ovations before and after her hour-long talk, also drew applause with her response to an audience member's question. 
Asked what she thought of the University's often controver­sial policies toward gay issues, 
.Shepard's answer was automat­ic. "I think it's a no-brainer," 
administrators 
don't want to 
do that here." 
"Maybe it's the high profile of Notre Dame. It's a flagship. It's a trendsetter, and they don't want W set that trend," she said. 
In August 1997, Notre Dame officials rejected a measure Lo add sexual orientation to the University's non-discrimination clause. 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley. l@nd.edu. 


dn_ THE CUSHUWA CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF AMERICAN CATHOLICISM 
7JF . presents 
"Hotly in Pursuit ofthe Real": The Catholic Writer 
Ron Hansen Santa Clara University 
Friday, September 28, 2001 129 DeBartolo Hall 4:00 p.m. 

Professional Nail Services for Men & Women 

$38 Acrylic Full Set •Maintenance Pedicure $22
$2 6Acrylic Fill 
•The Works

$21 Standing Appointment Fill 
Pedicure $38 


•Moisturizing Manicure $17 
•Deep Therapy Massage $28 
Business Hours: Monl Wea! rnl ~al ~m. ~~m iues &,nurs ~m •4pm 
1~herap~intmenl !Imes u~on request 

Women, Religion, and the African Diaspora 
A Two Day Sym.posium Convened. by the African and African American Studies Program 
CCE/McKenna Hall • University ofNotre Dame • 28-29 September 2001 
Friday, 28 September 2001 
6.45 pm 

Keynote Address and Openin& Reception 'Catherine in the Garden': Clothing the Spiritual in an Aftican Caribbean Religion · . _ Dr. Carol Duncan Departmentof Religion and Culture• Wilfrid Laurier Uuivel'$ity • Waterloo, Ontario• Canada 
Saturday. 29 September 2001 
9:00am 

Wo.men and African-based Healinai Traditions 
Dr. Yvonne Cbireau Department ofReligious Studies• Swarthmore College• S,varthmore, PA 
9.30am 

Refiner's Fire: DoingInterdisciplinary, Analytical, and Critical Research from a Woro.anist Perspective while Dancing with God Dr. Cheryl Kirk•Dugpn · Cent.er fur Women end ReUgion • Ora.eluate Theological Union • Berkeley, CA 
10.15am 

Child-Marriage in Ancient Israel 
Dr. Wilm.a A. Bailey Christian Theological Seminary • India.n.apolia, IN 
10.45am 

The Emergence ofBlack Catholic Women in Chureh and Socisty 
Dr. Jamie T. Phelps, O.P. Loyola Univ~ty • Chicago, IL 
11.15am 

Hermeneut.ica.l Challenges; The Intersection of Cultural and Biblical Wisdom in the Cttribbean Dr. Mignon R. J acob.s Fuller TheologicalSeminary • Pasadena, CA 
2.00 pm. 
Panel Discussion 

Women, Religion, and the AfHcM Diaspora-Future Trajectories for Research and lnqu:ir)• 
Co-8J)Oneored by the Gender Stu.di.ea Program and The Graduate School 

ATION 
Friday, September 28, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
U.S. warplanes hit Iraqi artillery: 
U.S. 
and British warplanes struck two artillery sites Thursday that were a threat to aircraft patrolling Iraq's southern "no-tly" zone, a U.S. Air Force spokesman said. The anti-aircraft sites had posed danger for the planes monitor­ing Iraq's no-fly zone, Maj. Brett Morris said. 

U.S. 
and British aircraft patrol the area to pre­vent Iraqi forces from attacking Kurds and Shiite Muslims and to provide early warning of any Ira.qi troop movements toward Kuwait. 


Pope says Mass in Armenia: Presiding over an outdoor Mass, Pope John Paul II called on Armenia's small Catholic community Thursday to help rebuild lhc economically suf­fering country. The pope's three-day trip to Armenia followed a four-day trip to Kazakstan, a tour that has put the 81-year­old pontiffs frail health to the test. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
State appoints security advisor: 
Gov. Bob Holden has appointed an adviser on homeland security, making Missouri the first state to follow President Bush's lead in creat­ing a Cabinet-level position on anti-terrorism. Retired Army Col. Timothy Daniel, 51, was named Wednesday to review Missouri's emer­gency response plans in the wake of the Sept. 
11 terrorist attacks. Daniel, a former strate­gist at the Pentagon and Army Corps of Engineers, will serve as a liaison to Tom Ridge, the newly named national director of homeland security. 
FDA approves gene-based AIDS test: 
The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved the first gene-based test to tell quickly whether an HIV patient's virus is mutating to make a particular drug therapy fail, important to know so the person can switch AIDS medica­tions. The test, Visible Genetics Inc.'s Trugene, is one of the most complex genetic test systems to clear the FDA. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
State faces budget gap: Gov. Frank O'Bannon is freezing the wages of state employees because the state faces such seri­ous budget problems that it cannot afford the cost of pay raises. Revenue from sales taxes, individual income taxes and corporate income taxes in July and August was short of projec­tions, the governor's office said. That is in addition to the two-year budget the legisla­ture approved this spring that spent nearly $600 million more than projected. O'Bannon in July told most state agencies to cut their allotment of state-funded spending by 7 per­cent in an attempt to close the budget gap. 
Market Watch September 26 
Dow 8,681.42 +ll4.03 

Composite]~ Same: 
Volume: 
NIA
t=l 
179 

AMEX: 794.99 +8.79 NASDAQ: 1,460.71 -333 NYSE: 532.30 +7.74 S&P 500: 1,018.61 +11.57 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -8 .09 -0.99 11.24 NASDAQ 100 (QQQ) -0.55 -0.19 28.48 INTEL CORP (INTC) -1.57 -0.35 20.55 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) -5.28 -0.53 7.91 SONUS NETWORKS (SONS) -55.00 -3.52 2.88 
PAKISTAN 


AFP 

A group of taxi drivers express their support for the Pakistan government on Thursday at a rally in Peshwar, Pakistan. The government declared Thursday a "Day of Solidarity" in support of its controversial cooperation with the West in the war against terrorism. 
Officials to meet with Taliban 
Associated Press 
ISLAMABAD 
Pakistani religious lead­ers leave Friday for Afghanistan, the Pakistani news agency reported. The delegation may be part of a new Pakistani initiative to open a dia­1ogu e with the ruling Taliban on a possible solution to the crisis over Osama bin Laden. 
The Pakistan govern­ment news agency said 

Thursday the delegation would fly aboard a special plane to the southern Afghan city of Kandahar, stronghold of the Taliban leadership, and return Friday night. 
Although the dispatch did not say so, it appeared the delegation had the Pakistan govern­ment's approval because a special plane was being provided and because the visit was reported in advance by the state news agency. 
The visit was announced as the Taliban's ambassador to Islamabad, Abdul Salam Zaeef, said a Sept. 20 decision by Afghan clerics urging bin Laden to leave Afghanistan voluntarily had been delivered to the alleged terrorist master­
mind. 
Bin Laden is the top suspect in the Sept. 11 terrorist bombings in the United States, and Bush has demanded that the Taliban hand over him 
and his lieutenants, among other demands, or face retaliation. 
The Taliban had said they couldn't find bin Laden. But Zaeef's remarks indicated the Taliban knew where he was and were in contact with him. It also appeared than bin Laden was still in Afghanistan. 
The moves could signal a willingness by the Taliban to find a solution to the crisis and avoid American air strikes. 

Ex -colonel gets life for espionage 
federal inmate. archives smuggled out of the Soviet
Associated Press 

"Mr. Trofimoff has conducted espi­Union as it collapsed. TAMPA, Fla. onage longer than anyone else we Trofimoff repeated to Bucklew the 
The highest-ranking military man have known of in this country," said claim he presented to his jurors: Ile ever accused of spying was sentenced Assistant U.S. Attorney Walter Furr. only told the undercover FBI agent he to life in prison on Thursday, 50 years "This is not someone who made a mis­was a spy because he needed money to the day after he declared his alle­take, or who got greedy momentarily. to pay debts. giance to United States as a new citi­What happened here was someone "I am guilty of trying to make a fool­zen. who set out to live his life as a spy." ish claim," he said. "What it did is 
George Trofimoff, a retired Army Throughout the Cold War, Trofimotf really convince me and my friends of Reserve colonel born in Germany, led the Army section at the my old-age senility. You are condemn­continued to profess his innocence -Nuremberg Joint Interrogation Center ing an old man who served his country declaring, UI am not a traitor" -as in Germany. There, secret intelligence honorably for 46 years." 
U.S. District Judge Susan Bucklew documents were stored and defectors Trofimoff's attorney, Daniel handed down the sentence. and refugees were interviewed about Hernandez, said he intended to 
Trofimoff had faced at least 27 years life, especially military operations, appeal. Trofimoffs wife, Jutta, who in prison. Assistant Secretary of behind the Iron Curtain. has been left bankrupt, did not speak Defense John P. Stenbit told the judge Trofimoff was convicted in June of on his behalf and declined to CQmment in a letter on behalf of President Bush taking secret documents out of the following his sentencing. that anything less than a life term center, photographing them and sell­The judge said she was not swayed would be neither adequate punish­ing the film to the KGB for $250,000 by Trofimotrs tale. ment for him nor a deterrent to oth­over more than 20 years. "Ry attempting to explain it away, ers. He worked through a childhood you lied and lied and lied," Bucklew 
Prosecutors say it is the first time friend, a Russian Orthodox priest, in a told him. "Obviously the jury didn't such a letter has been written for a spying career that was noted in KGB believe it. I don't believe it either.'' 
·.• ·" .. 

--------------------------~ 
page 6 The Observer . NEWS Friday, September 28, 2001 
CHILE

MEXICO 
Hurricane kills 1, nears mainland 
Letter bomb 
Associated Press 
CABO SAN LUCAS 

Howling winds and roaring waves from Hurricane Juliette bore down on tourist resorts at the tip of the Baja California peninsula on Thursday, knock­ing out power and smashing docks to driftwood. 
William Creson, 45, of Denver, drowned L, 10-foot waves as the storm approached on Wednesday. 
The winds blew the roofs oIT of shacks in poor neighborhoods and sparks cascaded from short­ed-out power transformers. Thursday's 15-foot waves destroyed docks. 
Gabriel Reyes Martinez. 22, was sleeping in his home of cardboard and corrugated metal Thursday morning when he heard his pregnant wife scream and woke up to find the roof on his house flying away. 
"She was hysterical," Reyes said. "We saw the roofjump and then jump again and take off. It fell 45 feet from the house but than~ God it didn't hurt any one else. 
Reyes and his family took refuge at an improvised shelter in a local school. 
The U.S. National Hurricane Center in Miami said the Juliette's eye was expected to slip west of the peninsula, but it still could rake the region with hurricane-force winds. 
Juliette's strongest winds fell to 90 mph Thursday after once reaching 145 mph. Tropical closed. Many local hotels were storms· are classified as hurri­almost empty because of travel 
found at embassy 
canes after reaching 74 mph. restrictions or fear spawned by Juliette was centered about 65 the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. miles south-southwest of Caho "Being from Texas, we know 
S a n Lucas at 
the tip of "We saw the roof jump t h e and then jump again and 
peninsu­
take off It fell 45 feet

la, but 
from the house but thank 

hurri­c a n e -God it didn't hurt anyone f o r c e 
else."

winds extend 60 m i I e s Gabriel Reyes Martinez from its 
Hurricane victim 

center and trop­i c a l ­
Associated Press
the damage one of these can cause," said Jim Kelly, 46, SANTIAGO

a Houston stock Police found a envelope

broker. Kelly said 

containing explosives on
he was planning to 

Thursday near the main
use the time to ask 

entrance to the heavily
his girlfriend to 

guarded U.S. Embassy,
marry him: "I'll 
authorities said.
probably ask her 

The embassy confirmed
at ihe height of the only that police were alertedstorm." 

and that they handled theJuliette was 
situation. No one was arrest­moving north at ed and there was no imme­about 7 mph, but diate claim of responsibility.
the forecasters 
police said.

storm force winds reach out 230 said it should continue to weak­
Interior Minister Juse
miles. en and turn away from the coast 

Broadway Theatre league Presents The New Musical••• 
October 4-7 & 12-14, 2001 For tickets and information Call 234-4044 Toll Free 1 -877-31 5-1234 
Student, senior, and group discounts available for all performances. 
Morris Performing Arts Center 
Miguel Insulza said no one was in danger and that "while the envelope indeed contained a small amount of explosives, it did not have a detonator." He said the inci­dent would be investigated. 
Local radio stations said the envelope also contained pamphlets with insults aimed at the United States but it did not have further details. 
Security was reinforced at the embassy since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and.the Pentagon. 

Civil defense officials said thev were evacuating 400 people from shanties and schools were converted to emergency shelters. 
Tourists joined locals in hunt­ing for emergency supplies of water and groceries in the few stores still open in this city of 25,000. 
Computer consultant Peter Nunan, 43, of San Jose, Calif., peered out at the storm from the waterfront and mourned his luck. 
He said he had been through typhoons in Japan and Taiwan on a business trip earlier this month. "Now I can't believe I'm being hit by a hurricane." 
He said most of the people in his tour group had not arrived because the local airport had to the northwest. 
The hurricane center said 5 to 7 inches of rain was likely in the hurricane's path, posing the threat of flash f1oods and mud slides. 
page 7 

Friday, September 28, 200 I The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
NYC mayor may seek term extension 
As.ociued Press 
NEW YORK 

Rudolph Giuliani got the sup­port of two of the three may­oral candidates Thursday for a plan that would allow him to stay on at City Hall for an extra three months while he guides the city through the aftermath of the World Trade Center attack. 
But Bronx Borough President 
Fernando Ferrer, one of two 
Democrats still in the race, 
declined to support the idea, 
saying he was worried about 
the precedent it would set. 
Democrat :½ark Green and 
Republican Michael Bloomberg 
agreed to go along with a pro­
posal after meeting privately 
with Giuliani. 
Green spokesman Joe 
DeP!asco said Thursday the 
Democrat would support legis­
lation delaying the inaugura­
tion of the new mayor for up to 
three months "given the 
unprecedented World Trade 
Center catastrophe, the urgent 
need for a seamless transition 
and the importance of a united 
city." 
Giuliani said at a news con­
ference Thursday afternoon 
that he had met with the GOP nominee and "Mike Bloomberg is Nov. 6. agreed to it immediately." The 
Green's support is particular­Bloomberg campaign con­
ly remarkable because he and firmed its support soon after. 
the mayor have sparred fre­Perrer said he also met with 
quently over the years. As the 

Giuliani, "but  city's elect•  
after listening  ed govern­ 
to his propos­ "We would certainly be  m  e  n  t  
al and giving it careful and thoughtful  inclined to support an extension ifthat's what  watchdog, Green has been a fre­ 
consideration  we would be asked to do  quent critic  
I have decid­ed that I can­not support it.  to provide for an orderly transition."  of the Giuliani administra- 
I know tho politics of the moment  John McArdle GOP Spokesman  tion. "These unique cir­ 

might dictate a different position, but I am deeply con­cerned about the precedent this would set." 
Ferrer said in an interview on the local cable news chan­nel NY1 that he would name Giuliani to head up an entity to oversee reconstruction and rebuilding efforts. 
Ferrer and Green, the city's 
public advocate, will face off in 
an Oct. 11 runoff for the 
Democratic Party's nomination 
for mayor. Bloomberg, the bil­
lionaire owner of a financial 
information business, captured 
his party's nomination on 
Tuesday. The general election 
cumstances 
justify such a nonpartisan, nontraditional approach to encourage unity and planning," DePlasco explained. 
In front of the news cameras Giuliani has remained focused on the massive recovery effort in downtown Manhattan. 
But behind the scenes, the mayor and his aides have been engaged in a furious lobbying effort to keep the term-limited Giuliani in City Hall after his term expires -all in the name of political unity, according to more than a dozen government officials, business leaders and other people close to Guiliani. 

Details about how Giuliani's proposal would work are still unclear. It would likely need approval from the state Legislature as some type of emergency measure. 
''We would certainly be inclined to support an exten­sion if that's what we would be asked to do to provide for an orderly transition," said John McArdle, a spokesman for GOP state Senate Majority Leader Joseph Bruno. 
On Wednesday, the mayor placed a call to Democratic state Assembly Speaker Sheld_on Silver asking for his support. Silver has been cool to the idea, but pledged to bring up the issue with his members. 
In Albany, Republican Gov. 
George Pataki said it was pre­
m ature to say whether he 
would sign legislation to extend 
the mayor's term, "but obvi­
ously I would be supportive of 
any such effort." 
Questions have been raised 
about the legality of the pro­
posal. Democratic U.S. Rep. 
Charles Rangel, a Ferrer 
backer who represents Harlem, 
said the plan would need 
Justice Department approval 
because it would affect minori­
ty voters, who are protected 
under the Voting Rights Act. 
MEDJUGORJE 
September 25, 2001 Message from your Mother 
"Dear children! Also today I call you to prayer, espe­cially today when Satan 
• 

want.s war and hatred. I call you anew, little children: pray and fast that God may give you peace. Witness peace to every heart and be carriers of peace in this world without peace. I am with you and intercede before God for each of you. And do not be afraid because the one who prays is not afraid of evil and has no hatred in the heart. Thank you for hav­ing responded to my call." 
To receive these mess~ges _being given by the Blessed Mother on the 25th of each month -and a Report from MedJugoqe sent out on the 1st and the 15th -email your email address to . 
dnolan@childrenofmedjugorje.com 

The reports can also be found translated into 14 languages on our web site: www.childrenofmedjugorje.com 

Watch "I\/IEDJUGORJE: OUR MOTHER'S LAST CALL with Sr. Emmanuel" Thrusday nights at 7:00 PM on channel 3 
(Save this page and share it with family and friends) 

Plane returns 
to airport 
after threat 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 

A passenger allegedly uttered an anti-American threat during a confrontation with flight attendants Thursday, prompt­ing an airliner to return to Los Angeles und.er escort by Air Force jet fighters. 
The unidentified man and his travel companion on Air Canada Flight 792 to Toronto were handed over to the FBI, said Nicole Couture-Simard, spokeswoman for Air Canada in Montreal. 
"Shortly after departure a male passenger was appre­hended smoking in the lavato­ry," she said. "The passenger became verbally abusive and 
· uttered an anti-American threat." Couture-Simard would not describe the threat. FBI spokeswoman Laura Bosley could not immediately give details on the passenger. The Boeing 767 landed safely about half an hour after takeoff, authorities said. Couture-Simard said it was not necessary to restrain the passenger: "The pilot elected to return to Los Angeles as a pre­cautionary measure only." There were 145 people on the plane, including a crew of seven, an airport spokeswoman said. The jet returned to the air­port around 1:15 p.m. and pas­sengers were booked on the next flight. 
Two F-16s escorted the Air Canada flight into the airport, authorities said. Who contacted the jets was not immediately clear. but Air Force jets normal­ly respond to civilian incidents only at the request of the Federal Aviation Admini-stra­tion, said Maj. Barry Venable, spokesman for the North American Aerospace Defense Command. 
The incident occurred as Gov. Gray Davis was traveling to_ an airport press conference on a shuttle bus. 
"We were about five minutes out of Lot C when those two jets buzzed the airport, so we knew something was up," said Davis. 


page 8 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Friday, September 28, 2001 

Having trouble finding The London Program? Our office is now in 153 Hurley Hall 
Apply for 

Fall 2002 and Spring 2003 
RUSSIA 
Chechen envoys suggest disarmament 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 

Chechen rebel envoys have contacted Russian officials about possible disarmament talks, a Kremlin envoy said Thursday, in the first step toward peace negotiations in two years of war. 
The tentative overture was announced just before President Vladimir Putin's 72­hour offer of talks -his first such serious proposal ­expired. Putin had repeatedly rejected Western calls for a political settlement, insisting the rebels should be eliminat­ed. 
Kremlin envoy Viktor Kazantsev, appointed by Putin to oversee negotiations, said a representative of rebel leader A'llan Maskhadov approached his delegation in Chechnya. He provided no details. 
"We have just barely start­ed," Kazantsev said on RTH television Thursday from a plane to Moscow. 'Tm not say­ing they're ready; they have doubts." 
Kazantsev, who has been shuttling around Chechnya and nearby southern Russian republics since Putin's offer Monday, claimed that several dozen rebel commanders and fighters had "contacted" pro­Moscow Chechen officials. He did not elaborate. 
"Discussions are under way. 
There will be a result, I am certain," he later told ORT tele\ision in Moscow. 
His deputy, Nikolai Britvin, said in a telephone interview from the Chechen capital, Grozny. that a small number of rebels had already surren­dered, but did not say how many. 
"The process has started and it will continue tomorrow and for some time," Britvin said. 
There was no immediate response from the rebels. 
Formidable obstacles remain to any peace settlement. The Russian military is desperate to avoid a repeat of its humili­ating troop withdrawal at the end of the 1994-96 war in Chechnya, which resulted in de facto independence. 
The Kremlin also wants to maintain a strong presence in the region and avoid the law­lessness that blossomed after the 1996 withdrawal -the main reason cited for sending troops back into Chechnya in 1999. 
That invasion came after Chechnya-based rebels invad­ed the neighboring region of Dagestan, and after deadly apartment bombings in Russia blamed on the rebels. 
Maskhadov. a rebel com­mander during the 1994-96 war, played a key role in nego­tiating a peace deal and has repeatedly proposed negotia­tions in this war. 
NORTHERN IRELAND 

Rioting resumes in Belfast 
Associated. P re•s 
BELFAST 
A gunman opened fire on police lines Thursday as rioting by Protestant militants raged on a rubble-strewn north Belfast street for the second straight night. 
Officers in helmets, flame­retardant suits and flak jackets suffered barrages of gasoline bombs, firecrackers, bricks and rocks during confrontations with several hundred Protestants. They responded with volleys of plastic bullets. the snub-nosed cylinders that are designed to knock down rioters. 
During more than three hours of mayhem on the Crumlin Road, militants hijacked and 
Large Groups Welcome 

Dine in/Carry-out Reservations recommended 
DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND'S FINEST ITALIAN DINING 
Buy one Dinner, get the second for 1/2. Not valid on Holidays or Notre Dame event weekends or with other offers. 
burned several vehicles. At one point, police dived for cover as about 10 live rounds were fired at their positions, some heard ricocheting ofT the pavement. 
The gunman wasn't identified and there was no report of injury in the shooting. The vio­lence came after 33 officers were hurt in confrontations at the same spot Wednesday night. 
On both nights, police have said they were preventing Protestants from marching toward Catholic homes in the nearby Ardoyne district, the focal point for regular con­frontations since June between the riot-hardened police force and both sides of the communi­ty. 
The Protestants this week have blamed heavy-handed 
THE FRESHEST ITALIAN IN TOWN 
I233-tOOOI 
Fresh Prepared Dinners, Pizza
235 S. Michigan St. 
and fine

South Bend, In 4660l www.catalinos.com drink selection. 
police tactics for provoking them, while Catholics have com­plained that the police weren't being hard enough on the Protestants. 
Before Thursday's violence, police searched scores of Protestant homes and pubs for weapons. They found a rifle and two handguns at one address. but arrested nobody. 
Chief Constable Ronnie Flanagan, commander of the predominantly Protestant police, appealed to the Protestant mili­tants to sec sense and back down before someone was killed. 
"The violence is crazy,'' Flanagan said. "People must realize these situations can only have -0ne outcome -the loss of life." 

Visit our web site Paper applications can be picked up at 8:00 to 12:00am www.nd.edu/-londonpr 1:00 to 5:00pm 153 Hurley Hall 
I 
I
J_ 


Friday, September 28, 200 I The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
National guard to secure airports 
What does the Church teach? Why does it matter? Have questions and need a place to ask them? Each one credit course in the series 11I<now 
J(nowyour

Your Catholic Faith" will reflect on a central feature ofthe Catholic faith, so that students come away with a clear idea of what the Church holds on these topics as well as a basic theological and personal understanding of them. The courses wilfbe based on the Catechism of the Catholic Church plus other pertinent texts, supplemented by personal reflection 
FAITH 
and experiential learning where appropriate. These courses should meet the needs of those students who know little or nothing about the faith, as well as those who are familiar with the faith but do not feel they have a clear grasp of certain features of Christian doctrine. The courses will be presented in a variety of formats and venues. 
Courses Now Open for Enrollment: 
The Sacraments 
Theo. 340B. 1 credit. S/U 

Prayer
Instructor: Pamela Jackson Theo. 340A. 1 credit. S/U
Wednesdays, 5:30 p.m. -7:35 p.m., 
Instructor: Lawrence Cunningham 
Oct. 3, 10, 17, 31, Nov. 7, 14 Sundays, 6:15 p.m.-8:20 p.m., 
Coleman Morse Center, Rm. 330 Sept. 30, Oct. 7, 14, Nov. 4, 11, 18 Coleman Morse Center, Rm. 330 
Creation 


~ Theo. 340C. 1 credit. S/U Instructor: John Cavadini For further information about registering/or these 
' 

A New Series of One-Credit Courses offered by the Department of Theology 
in cooperation with the Office of Campus Ministry 


Associated Pre•s 
WASHINGTON 

Governors pledged Thursday to mobilize National Guard troops against terrorism at air­ports, where jobs are drying up because of 
.travelers' jitters. The Pentagon said it has authority to attack hijacked airliners as a last resort. 
Talkjng about military pilots' new rules of engagement in the war against terrorism, outgoing Joint Chiefs Chairman Gen. Henry Shelton said, "The last thing in the world that one of them wants to do is engage a commercial aircraft." 
"Don't get the impression that anyone who's flying around out there has a loose trigger finger," he said. 
Sixteen days after attacks that killed thousands, the Bush administration moved on several fronts to calm a still-fearful nation, bolster the U.S. economy, identify the kHlers and forge a wartime coalition of disparate nations. 
"Others will tire and weary; I understand that. But not our nation," Bush told hundreds of flag-waving airline workers in Chicago, their industry and jobs in danger because of the Sept. 11 attacks. 


Amid a swirl of diplomatic activity, Bush met with European Union leaders, who cautioned him to retaliate with precision and focus. The president, by con­trast, has talked about a broad war. 
Despite words of caution from Europe. there was fresh evi­dence that Bush is fashioning a unique anti-terrorism coalition of disparate nations. A U.S. offi­cial disclosed that Sudan, long accused of harboring terrorists, has quietly rounded up as many as 30 foreign extremists since the Sept. 11 attacks. 
Secretary of State Colin Powell was busy, too. He met with the foreign ministers of Belgium and Turkey as well as King Abdullah II ofJordan. 
Adding his voice to the mix, civil rights leader Jesse Jackson said he had been invited by the ruling militia in Afghanistan to take a "peace delegation" to the region. The White House dis­couraged Jackson, and the Taliban militia said they had not asked him to come. 
Powell said point-blank: "We have nothing to negotiate." 
In Afghanistan, where prime suspect Osama bin Laden is believed to be, Taliban leaders warned Afghans not to expect the United States to overthrow their hard-line rule. 
"Those Afghans who want to seize power with the help of America are just like those fools who tried to stay in power with the help of the Russian army,·• York and the Pentagon outside said Taliban chief Mullah Washington. Mohammed Omar. David Nowacki, an American 
The statement, distributed by Airlines worker on hand for the Afghan Islamic Press, Bush's speech, said he and his referred to friends are 
the Soviets· unsuccessful  "The last thing in the  worried about their jobs.  
military  world that [a military  "Things are  
efforts in the  pilot] wants to do is  on  edge,"  
1980s. There were  engage a commercial  Nowacki said. "No one is  
protests  aircraft. "  calling  in  
against  the  sick."  
United States in Japan and Malaysia  Gen. Henry Shelton Joint Chiefs Chairman  The Bush administration has balked at  
while extrem- Democratic  
• ist  Islamic  calls for relief  
groups  in  to  airline  

Indonesia threatened to attack workers, promising instead a 
U.S. workers in the country. broader package to revive the 
In the United States, more economy -one that likely will arrests were made of Middle include tax cuts. Eastern men who obtained While his advisers met in bogus licenses to haul hazardous Washington to weigh the stimu­materials. The FBI said those lus plan, Bush tried to rally men were not connected to the Americans into patriotic spend­hijackers, but there were con­ing. cerns nonetheless of follow-up "Get about the business of terrorist attacks. America," he said. 
Attorney General John Though business is down 
· Ashcroft released photographs of across the board, Bush focused the 19 hijacking suspects and on an airjine industry jarred by a asked Americans to help identify dramatic decline in passengers those who are still in doubt. since the attacks. 
"A national neighborhood "Get on the airlines," Bush watch," he called it. implored. "We vvill not surrender 
In neighborhoods all over our freedom to travel." America, the economic impact of He sought to coax Americans. the attacks continued to grow. into planes with a $500 million 
Jobless claims rose to a nine­plan to secure cockpit doors and year high, in part reflecting the a wide range of other proposals, ripple effect of strikes against including having the federal gov­the World Trade Center in New ernment oversee security at air­
ports. Democrats and union leaders joined him for the O'Hare International Airport event. 
The crowd sang "God Bless America" as Bush shook hands. 
Several mayors said the pack­age wasn't tough enough. Some governors moved quickly to hoed Bush's call to mobilize National Guard troops at airports. 
Minnesota Gov. Jesse Ventura, a former member of the Navy special forces team, said he didn't think twice. Colleagues in Michigan, California and several others states followed suit. Rhode Island's governor said the Guard wasn't needed -not yet, anyway.. 
"When you're in a time of war, you don't question the comman­der in chief," said Ventura. 
Bush dispatched his Cabinet to travel on various commercial flights to demonstrate the safety of the skies. Even his father, for­mer President George H.W. Bush, pitched in. 
"I have every confidence in the airlines," the elder Bush said before boarding a flight in Boston with several Secret Service agents. 
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld said Americans may see "some dramatic military engagements," but warned in a New York Times article that vic­tory won't be easy nor clear and the war will be unconventional. 
"Forget about 'exit strategies,"' he wrote. "We're looking at a sustained engagement that car­ries no deadlines." 

courses, contact Dorothy Anderson in the Theology 
·· C:G~~ ~~;~~~85, 6;~~i:.·5~:~~.p2;·• 

Department, 631-6662. Syllabi for the courses can ~Keough Hall Common Room be obtained at the Theology Dept. main office. . 
O
THE BSERYER 

VIEWPOINT 
Friday, September 28, 2001 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR GUEST COLUMN 
Alumni should 
Falwell mirrors bin Laden 
PITTSBUllGI I the responsibility of every minister who takes the
curb hypocrisy 
"I really believe that the pagans, and the abor­Bible seriously." 
There have been a number of letters and even an Inside Column published this week that relate back to the Michigan State game and, more at the center of con­troversy, what happened following it. As a recent alum, I'm siding with the students on this one. The question of class and loyalty should not be directed at the students but at their predecessors. 
First of all, there was booing at post-game. Can't deny it, it happened. Lt. Dan Cook called the booing a break in tradition. Tim O'Connor made an excellent point in his response that the booing was simply a way of showing the growing frustration that many Domers, past and pre­sent, are feeling right now with the program. 
Angela Campos's inside Column called for more sup­port in the senior section and asked them to act more like their underclassmen peers. And I agree. Cheer. Do those push-ups. Yell your part of "We Are ND"when the cheerleaders cue you. Be as into the game as the cheer­leaders and the band are, who, no matter lhe odds, will cheer like we're up 24-3 even if it we're not. 
But to the students who left before the band, who crossed their arms during the 1812, who even booed, I cannot blame you. You were just following another example, not one from your peers, but one from your elders. After the game, the students are the only section that doesn't clear out and head for dinner reservations, more tailgating or to the bookstore to beat the rush. Or whatever the reasons are that alums leave. So can you blame the seniors for following in their footsteps? 
The next time an alum calls for tradition and then accuses the students of being classless, or forgetting who they are, or even where they are, remind the alums that they were once students too. That they had tradition. Ask them why they leave now, why they don't stand any­more and why they set such a bad example. 
To those alums like me who want to stand, who yell the cheers, who stay to the end and still act like students -thanks. If only the rest of the alumni would follow our example. 
Jeremy Sony Class of '01 Columbus, Ohio Sept. 27, 2001 


Expressing thanks to Notre Dame 
This weekend some friends and I traveled to South Bend to see our Spartans take on your Fighting Irish. When we got here we were astonished by the awesome atmosphere that surrounds this University and its great football tradition. 
The bands coming together fpr the halftime show was a chance for the nation to see that no matter what hapgens-__,... in these games we are all Americans. For the most part we felt very welcome here and enjoyed the day no matter what the outcome would have been. I thought the staff and ushers were great and further enriched the atmos­phere. 
I am thankful that we have build such a solid tradition and look forward to facing ea.ch other in the future. I wish the best of luck to you this season. 
Ryan Jackson sophomore Michigan Srate Sept. 27, 2001 

tionists, and the feminists, and the gays and les­bians who are actively trying to make that an alter­native lifestyle, the ACLU, People for the American Way-all of them who have tried to secularize America -M. Derek Care 
I point the finger in their face and say, 'You helped this hap­pen," Rev. Jerry Falwell said. 

Osama bin Laden and The Pitt News Saddam Hussein have found an ideological friend in Jerry Falwell. The above, delivered by Falwell during the Sept. 13 broadcast of' the Christian television program "The 700 Club," is lhe type of statement that is more often associated with Middle Eastern dictators than with Christian television. 
Later in the same show, Falwell further blurred the lines betwetln his belief's and that of the Sept. 11 attackers by saying that, because of the previously mentioned groups, God had allowed "the enemies of America to give us proba­bly what we deserve." 
This is the type of offensive drivel that gives self-righteous, hate-mongering loud­mouths a bad name. It's hardly surprising that Falwell had the audacity and taste­lessness to say such things just two days after the attack. 
This is, after all, the same man who during the course of his career tried to "out" Tinkie­Winkie, the purple Teletubby, and announced that the Antichrist was living among us in the form of a Jewish man. 

Though unsurprising, Falwell's latest comments are more than just another embarrass­ing incident from the former leader of the now-defunct Moral Majority. They sig­nal that Falwell, like bin Laden, believes that there is currently a jihad (holy war} being fought and that God is on his side. 
Nor is this the first time that Falwell's rhetoric has echoed bin Laden's. Bin Laden began his holy war by issuing a fatwa (religious edict) which said, "To kill the Americans and their allies -civilians and military -is an individual duty for every Muslim." 
Falwell has issued a similar proclamation, say­ing, "Preaching against the sin of homosexuality is 
Bin Laden is fighting America, the so-called Great Satan. Falwell is fighting homosexuality, what he has called a "vile and satanic system." 
Bin Laden fights with bombs. Falwell fights with words. 
Bin Laden wants to remove the American pres­ence from the Middle East. Falwtlll wants to remove Tinkie-Winkie from television. 
They are two cheeks ol' the same metaphorical ass, and to extend this already crude metaphor fur­ther, they both stink. . 
Though an agent or hatred just as surely as bin Laden is, Falwell is no threat to the freedom of Americans. No military action will be needed to stop him. No economic sanctions will be needed to 
silence him. By fighting for hatred and narrow­mindedness in an ever more pro­gressive and educated society, Falwell has made himself' vul­nerable to the only force thal can take him down: irrele­vance. 
With every embarrass­ing diatribe, Falwell finds himself with fewer and 
fewer allies. The former 
leader of the Moral Majority is now a lia­bility to the Christian 
Right, and few people in Washington are willing to have their names associated with his. 
As the bold Ku Klux Klan members of the past eventually slunk 
into the shadows, so will Jerry Falwell. As the once-proudly flown 
Confederate flag became an ugly reminder of past hatreds, so too will Jerry Falwell. 

But for now, Falwell, who pointed his finger in the face of pagans, feminists. gays, les­
bians, victims of the attacks and the country as a whole, should know just one thing. We are pointing a 
finger right back in your direction, and there are far more of us than there ever were of you. 
This article first appeared in the University of Pittsburg's newspaper The Pitt News on Sept. 26. 2001 and is reprinted here courtesy ofU-WIRE. 
The opinions expressed in this article are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Apologies to Coach Davie 
.,.,-Fairness requires that I write this follow-up to my letter (published in Wednesday's Observer) calling for Coach Davie's resignation because our team and coaches were not on the field during the pre-game ceremonies. In my letter I stated that Coach DaVf~could offer no "valid explanation" for such absent.e. Since my letter was published I have received a copy of a letter written by Tex Dutile, Chairman of the Faculty Board of Athletics, which explains that the Notre Dame and Michigan State Athletic Departments had agreed prior to the game that neither team would he on the field during the cere­monies. While I continue to feel that it would have been 
more appropriate for both teams to have been involved in the pre-game ceremonies, keeping to the agreed upon approach is certainly a "valid explanation" for Coach Davie's actions and I apolo­gize to Coach Davie for writing first and getting the facts later. The Notre Dame community, which of course includes Coach Davie and the players and coaches, can be proud of its response to the tragic events of Sept. 11th. 
Tom Desmond Class of '78 Chicago Sept. 27, 2001 


O
THE BSERVER 

IEWPOINT 
Friday, September 28, 2001 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. IN 46556 

024. South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 16556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
A.ssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MA."1,\GER  
Kerry Smith  Po.t Peters  

NEWS EDITOR; Jason McFarley VIEwPOJNT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadter SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MARYS EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin W!IB AoMINISTitATOR: Adam Turner CoNTROIJ.ER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX............................................................631-6927 AoVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................ 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AsST. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE.. ......................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 
observer.viewpoinr.l@nd.edu SPORTS............................ ..........................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu SCENE. ........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MAR'l's ................... :. ........................ 631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMl!\ISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER OHLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:!lob,erver.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/mmic for 

minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 

advertise for policies 
online features for spe­

and rares of print ads 
cial campus coverage 

archives to search for 
about The Observer 

articles published after 
to meet the editors and 

Augusr 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame d,, Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoriry ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters ,ind columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint spa= is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. f.,,tters to the Editor must be signed oncl must include contact information. 
Qu.erti1Jm reg,zrding Obsen;erpolicies sb1Ju!d be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefMike Connolly. 
Davie to blame in game, not patriotism 
After two games, the Notre Dame deserves an apology. football team ranks close to last To admonish Davie for Saturday's amongst all Division I teams offensive­actions is to arrest a mailman for deliv­ly. For that, Bob Davie deserves to be ering an unwanted message. White and criticized. The first team entirely his fellow Irish administrators, who recruited by the Irish first decided to keep the head coach lacks the The Irish inside the locker explosiveness of Ooserver room, should face the Michigan State. For that, •a1 wrath of fans, media and 
Bob Davie deserves our alumni -not Davie.
Edi 

scowls and boos. Although Michigan State 
ton . 

But before last originally agreed to keep Saturday's Michigan State game, where · their players in as well, head coach the Irish players remained off the field Bobby Williams and athletic director . during "'God Bless America," Davie Clarence Underwood had the instinct ­simply followed a plan arranged by and pride in America -to change their athletic director Kevin White. And for mind. the criticism Davie received from stu­In doing so, Michigan State showed dents, fans and media this week, he that its true colors are not green and white, but red, white and blue. Through his decision, White only showed reverence for the blue and gold. 
The claim that the Irish stayed in the locker room to maintain a sense of nor­malcy is utter nonsense. Eleven days after the deaths of' 6,000 countrymen, no one could remain unaffected. Michigan State stood up and faced the reality of' America. Notre Dame stayed behind and ignored it. 
Sadly, the attention given this confu­sion has dwarfed the real story. Enough fans to fill a small city waved flags and belted out "God Bless America," More than a quarter of a million dollars was raised for the victims. For that, Notre Dame deserves to be cheered. 
Bush still has much to prove 
Notre Dame freshmen and fresh­women (let's be politically correct, especially since this president claims to include everyone in his administration) have much in common with George W. Bush. Both have begun a new life unlike anything · they could have expected. They are still naive, well­intentioned, unfa­miliar with their new surroundings and somewhat immature. Yet they both have tremen­dous potential, and will undoubtedly have the opportu­nity to prove them­selves in time, 
My first fresh­man day on Notre Dame's campus was a nightmare. I walked past Morrissey through the arch at Howard and head­ed toward the Golden Dome. Somehow I ended up near the library and was hopelessly lost. Returning to the dome, I found myself near Lewis Hall and could not figure out that the old Bookstore was located on the other side of the Main Building. I quickly learned how to tell north from south depending on how Mary was standing above the golden dome. · 
Bush's last few weeks in office have been as traumatic. He campaigned on such issues as the immediate increase of funding for the military and less gov­ernment in general. It was supposed to mean an influx of spending so the mili­tary could replace much needed parts for its equipment and the acquisition of new equipment. It meant a reduction of taxes and an end to government intru­sion into the business lives of Americans, favorite topics of the con­servative far right. 
Ideally those tasks should be, for most Americans, supported without question. However, prior to the World Trade Center attacks, his defense sec-


retary was attempting, with much 
opposition from the Joint Chiefs of 
Staff, to reduce much of the military 
personnel in favor of better technology. 
At that point in time not a penny of new 
military program spending, other than 
the missile shield proposal, was includ­
ed in Bush's budget. 
Just as I learned how to guide myself 
on campus by using Mary's stance on 
the Dome, Bush has learned how to -maneuver around the corridors of the 
Pentagon on the military issue. He also 
learned how to relate with the White 
House press corps, which delight in 
their bulldog roles. More recently he 
steered his tax reduction win in both 
chambers of Congress. Bush was han­
dling his honeymoon period with suc­
cess. 

Like· any university setting, the Bush 
Administration had settled down to its 
first few months of freshman classroom 
learning. Football season opened for 
Bush when the World Trade Center was 
attacked. He won that game in the pub­
lic opinion polls, but the season is 
young. Despite his tendency to promise 
too much by promising to eradicate all 
terrorist activities, look for Bush to beat 
the odds makers' lines on most issues 
for another year due to the public's 
inherent lust for revenge. 
Bush has been presented with cir­
cumstances like no other president in 
our history. Thus far his staff has 
steered him in the proper direction 
with our nation's response. While the 
public has given him the typical support 
during a time of crisis it will not formu­
late a permanent impression of him 
until election day of 2004. 
Bush is operating within a completely 
new and uncharted set of circum­
stances. He has opportunities unseen 
since Franklin Roosevelt's administra­
tion. He also has pitfalls before him 
unprecedented throughout history. 
Patience is not a virtue the American 
public holds for long during political 
crisis. Our declared war sets the perfect 
tone for our resolve for justice but our 
unseen enemy will be difficult for the public to follow. 
The public is willing to blame any 
economic decline for the next several 
months on the attack, but slimmer 
pocketbooks will eventually mean 
impatience as well. 
The Bush advisors need to temper the 
rhetoric so that expectations can focus 
at their true level of attainment. The 
John Wayne approach of bringing the 
outlaw to justice, getting the girl and 
riding off into the sunset is not the 
approach and will not work in this situ­
ation. Yet the president keeps raising 
expectations beyond the public's atten­
tion span. 
All of us would like to see Osama bin 
Laden captured and terrorism eradicat­
ed by the end of the year. Three more 
years is long enough to make the presi­
dent's true presence felt in our econo­
my, in our military and throughout the 
world. 

However, this freshman president 
cannot undo the terrorist network over 
night that took tens of years to create. 
By this president's senior year in his 
term, he must have attained substantial 
results or the American public will have · become impatient. 
My concern is that Bush avoid the 
typically exaggerated pitfalls of every 
freshman -parties and tailgaters. 
After all, I remember being told that 
during the Navy weekend of my fresh­
man year I was found in my under­
wear, one shoe on, one shoe off, stomp­
ing in a circle trying to walk off a tail­
gater success. Some rhetorical and 
behavioral moderation by every fresh­
man is the key to success. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame '73, 
served in President Clinton's adminis­
tration as a Congressional and public 
affairs director. His column appeflrs 
every other Friday, and his Internet 
address is Hottline@aol.com. 
The opinions expressed in this col­
umn are those of the author and not 
necessarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF POLL QUESTION 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
News Scene 

Scott Brodfuehrer Amanda Greco 
''Authority without wisdom is like a heavy
Sheila Egts Graphics 
axe without an edge, fitter to bruise than 
Are the new dean's list requirements fair? 

Erin LaRuffa Katie McKenna 
polish."
' Sports Production 
Please e-mail viewpoint.l@nd.edu Matt Lozas Andrew Soukup 
by Friday to report your answer. 

Anne Bradstreet
Viewpoint Lab Tech poet
Pat Kelly Angela Campos 
O
THE 
BSERVER 





page 12 Friday, September 28, 2001 
Say cheese ••• 
Scene sat down to a table full ofpizzas to put them to the test -taste test, that i 
Lhrough Thursday, and from 11 to l a.m. on Friday and Scene Sta.ff Report 
Saturday. Call (219) 243-1122 to place a carry-out or delivery order. Pizza is the college student's (second) best friend. When the dining hall keeps serving the same swill day 
Papa John's 

in and day out. the Italian pie never loses its allure. The Papa John's, despite the pervasive taste of thoseObserver, in keeping with its high standards of journal­jalapenos in the corner of the box, was a supreme pizzaism, has sought out various Souih Bend pizzerias and P-xperience for one obvious reason: the special garlic put them through an excruciating series of "scientific" sauce. OLher Lhan that little container of pure butterytests to determine which pizza is the best. 
pleasure, Papa John's finest quality is by far the top­While not all pizzas available to campus were sam­pings, which actually look like authentic sliced mush­pled, The Observer tried out six pizzas available for rooms and assorted vegetables. 
delivery. Marco's, Papa John's and Pizza Hut all have The scrumptious toppings overshadow the rest ofautonomous delivery; however, the remaining three 
the pizza, which is merely adequate in t1avor; the
were delivered by Dine-In, a third-party food delivery service available by calling (219) 675-9999 or visiting doughy, powdery crust is conveniently bland ­
www.dine-in.com. ideal for dipping. The test pizza, a veggie, was loaded with green peppers, onions and black olives. 
Marco's Pizza 
"/feel like I'm eating a This pizzeria, which
Marco's Deluxe pizza was by far the has earned a steadfastlymost a.esthetically pleasing. Although its vegetable birthday 
devoted following

poor showing in the crust consistency cake.,. 
among college stu­

category brought down Marco's overall dents and become ascore, it fared as one of the better pies 
Nick Williams staple of their diets,

in the end. 

This pizza makes no advancement upon the basic notion of the Italian pie, but therein lays its strength. Marco's  self-proclaimed pizza expert commenting on Polito's pizza  promotes its use of fresh ingredients and carefully pre­ 
toppings were very fresh but their flavor  pared pies. It is  
didn't overwhelm the pizza as a whole.  definitely a  reli­ 

Substantial improvement could be made to the mild able favorite. Papa John's is located and sparse sauce, however. on 1827 South Bend Avenue. It is 
Unlike Papa John's, Marco's does not bury you in an open Monday through Saturday from inch of plastic-like cheese. In fact, you could even say 11 until 2 a.m. (depending upon that cheese is just another topping on the pie. Overall, demand), and from 12 p.m. until Marco's had the best balance of those tested and would midnight Sunday. Call (219) 271­be a good neutral brand to order if a group cannot 1177 to place a carry-out or deliverydecide between other brands. 
order. 

Be warned though, Marco's pizza with its cardboard­like crust tastes something like a rubber tire when it 
Pizza Hut

cools off. So, eat it hot or get a mouthful ofMichelin. 
Pizza Hut is quite possibly the epito­

Marco's Pizza is located at 52750 Route 933 (U.S. 
me of what a pizza should be. 

31/33). It is open from 11 a.m. to midnight, Sunday Like most pizzas, a Pizza Hut pie comes with several crust options, includ­ing thin crust, hand tossed and pan. Whatever style crust one selects, the buttery, melt­in-your-mouth, perfectly . textured dough cannot be topped -except with the per­fect amounts of sauce and cheese used by the masters at Pizza Hut. The sauce complements the crust, allowing the flavors of each to min­gle well. The sauce does not domi­nate the pizza or make the crust soggy. There is just enough sauce to create the perfect median between the crust and the cheese. Too often, pizzas lack sufficient amounts of cheese. Pizza Hut places a fairly thick layer of flavorful cheese on each pizza it prepares. Toppings aren't prone to slide off the pizza as the cheese holds them firmly in place. The pepperoni test­ed for this review was neither too salty nor too spicy as some pepper­onis tend to be. Overall, from cr~st to toppings, Pizza Hut delivers the best pizza. Besides, you can't knock an establishment boasting such educa­tion ally motivational programs as "Book It!" 
Confronted by a pile of pizzas, Scene taste-testers set out to sift Pizza Hut is located at 2017 through layers of toppings, cheeses, sauces and crusts to find out South Bend Ave. Call them at (219)273-9944 to place an order
who serves up the tastiest slice In the Michiana area. 
for 
carry­out or delivery. 
Bruno's Pizza 

Bruno's pie is the Natty Light of pizza. While it doesn't score particularly badly in any one area, it is entirely forgettable. Bruno's thrives on ambivalence. It does not taste good, but it does not taste bad either. You will e'at it and feel strangely unsatisfied. 
The toppings on this,pizza are buried beneath a pan­cake of runny cheese, which strangely makes the slices much more fun to eat. Bruno's pie looked a lot more like a rtiadkill topped with mozzarella than a pizza. Eating this pizza is like drinking warm beer ... make that warm American beer. 
Bruno's is located on 119 N Dixie Way. They are open from 4 to 9 p.m. Sunday through Thursday and from 4 to 11 p.m. on Friday and Saturday. Call Dine-In to place a delivery order at (219) 675-9999. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


,,,,.. . 
Friday; September 28, 2001 page 13 


nd pepperoni 
rhe lollou1ing is a comprehensive guide to the best (and worst) pizzas around. 
Pizza King 
Pizza King's 

deluxe pizza fea­
tured curiously tiny 
and nearly unrecogniz­
able toppings, including crum­
bled sausage and a tiny mosaic of uni­
formly shaped cubes of various vegetables. While the flavor is somewhat spicy and likable, the seeming absence of both crust and tomato sauce is dis­concerting. · 
The cheese had a weak flavor and lacked the stretchi­ness of quality mozzarella. Thin-crust enthusiasts may enjoy the crispy outer edge of crust. _Even though square-cut pizzas hke this are always fun to eat, it still lacks the tang ofa pizza with a zesty sauce or, at the very least, intact toppings. . 
Pizza King's pizza is at best pleasantly mild, but less exciting than, say, an 8:30 a.m. lecture about the cul­ture ofearly American civilization. 
Pizza King is located on 146 S Dixie Way. Pizza King has the most complex hours of any pizza parlor in the test. They are open from 10:45 a.m. to 2 p.m. Tuesday 
through Saturday, from 3 to 10:30 
p.m. on Saturday and from 3 to 9 p.m. on Sunday. Call Dine-In to place a delivery order at (219) 675-9999. 
Polito's 
Poliio's pizzas make a stunning first impression. Upon opening the box, your eyes are met with a perfectly round pie, overflowing with toppings. Aesthetically, Polito's is a pretty pizza. 
1110 initial taste of.a slice of Polito's 
pizza is great -until you get to the 
crust. Perhaps due to the enormi­
ty of the pie, the crust is not 
adequately cooked. Its mushy 
consistency and nauseating, 
fermented yeast flavor 
(think of the lovely smell of 
ethanol that cloaks cam­
pus on a humid day) con­
tribute to an unpalat­
able masticating expe­
rience. 
"I feel like I'm eat­
ing a vegetable birth­
day cake," self-pro­
claimed pizza expert 
Nick Williams said 
of Polito's pie. 
Crust aside, the 
rest of a Polito's 
pizza is not so dis­
appointing. 
Though the sauce 
has the metallic 
zing reminiscent of 
the inside of the 
can from which it 
most likely came, 
the sauce is in prop­
er proportion to the 
other ingredients. 
Buried beneath the 
toppings lies a bed of 
rather bland cheese. 
Rendering the cheese 
invisible is a smorgas­
bord of toppings, includ­
ing sauteed onions, green 
peppers, pepperoni and 
sausage. 
The toppings taste very 
good, and there is enough 
above the crust to somewhat 
compensate for the uncooked 
dough. If hungry enough, one could scrape off the toppings and still have enough for a full meal. · 
Polito's is located at 4615 Grape Road in Mishawaka, Hours vary, so call Polito's at {219)243-5385 for cur­rent hours. You can also place orders through Dine-Ju at (219)675-9999. 
After extensive testing and a few antacid tablets the undisputed winner was the old standard, Pizza Hut. Its famous pan crust clinched itc; spot as number one. It seems that the best pizzas available to campus are from the big delivery chains. It is apparent from our results that the smaller restaurants are not going national for a reason. 
C. Spencer Beggs, Christie Boisen, Amanda Greco and Dauid Minne con­tributed to this report. 
Contact Scene writers at scene@nd.edu. 


--
--

-
page 14 Friday, September 28, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS 

MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL GOLD LEAGUE 
-Rivalry heats up in Dillon-Keenan matchup 
Keenan will be looking to their expe­By DAVE COOK, MATT DeNICOlA rienced offensive line and freshmen and ANTHONY BISHOP 

quarterback Patrick Downey to carry

Spores Writers 
them through to a victory. On the other side of the ball, Dillon 

Forget about Stanford and Alumni. looks to keep the ball on the ground Dillon and Keenan arc discovering that for most of the game. Look for Dillon their greatest rivals are no longer out­running back Jason Visner to see a lot side their window. but across campus. of action on Saturday. 
When Dillon and Keenan take the "We don't have very good passing," field Sunday afternoon, they will con­said Odom. "Our strength is running tinue a rivalry that has been maturing the ball." through the years and became espe­Hernandez summed up the feelings 
cially heated last year. of Dillon this past week. After suffering a crushing 16-0 loss 
Stanford vs. Morrissey

to Dillon during the regular season, 
It has often been said that the bestthe Knights were able to pull together offense is a good defense. As true as a double overtime win against Dillon this may seem, the fact remains thatin the playoffs. 

y.ou cannot win football games without"This is a huge rivalry," said Dillon 

-scoring touchdowns.
defensive end Ryan Ask Stanford orHernandez. "This 
game will be more 'This is a huge rivalry. Morrissey, neither of 
whom scored a

intense than the game This game will be more 
touchdown in their

against Alumni." 
intense than the game season opener. But
The other returning \vhen these two
Dillon players share against Alumni. " 
teams face off thisthe same sentiments 

Sunday, neither team as Hernandez. 

Ryan Hernandez wants that to happen
"It was terrible los­
Dillon defensive end again.
ing [to Keenan] in dou­"We've been focus­
ble overtime," said ing on defense andDillon captain Tayt 
-
trying to improve the pass attack,"
Odom. "It was the hardest fought 
said Stanford captain Dave Oilworth. 

game I've ever seen." 
The Griffins allowed only one touch­The Knights. having returned many 

down last week, and hope that the

players from last year, also remember defense can step up in a similar fash­that game. 
ion this weekend.

"Dillon is usually the best team in 
Stanford's defense may not needthe league," said Brian Kunitzer. 

much work, but the offense struggled"That game was a big win for us. The in their opener. Dilworth is confidentodds of winning were against us." 

that his offense can come alive.

Both teams have a history of being "Our running game is our strength:
powerhouses in interhall football, and running the ball, controlling the ball,this year is no different. Both Keenan and not giving it to the other team,"and Dillon realize this will not be an Dilworth said. 
easy game, and they have been 
Dilworth's confidence in the run ispreparing for this game all week. 

not unfounded, considering the two

"We definitely have a -lot of work to man back attack of Dan Campion and
do," said Knights captain Brent 
Mark McNamee, who each had sevenMorlok. "Our offense needs to sharpen 

carries in the last game.

up, and we added quite a few new "Our backfield is really strong ... 
guys on defense." 
they can always come up with a big

Defensive linebacker Pat Robinson 
play," said Dilworth.

also realizes they will need to play bet­
But Morrissey is not frightened by

ter if they want to defeat Dillon. 
the Griffin backfield. 

"We showed a lot of errors [against 
"I think we are strong enough to

Stanford] that we need to improve on," beat any team," said Morrissey captainsaid Robinson. 
Andy Ba um. "If we need to make adjustments during the game, then we will." 
The Manorites also allowed only one touchdown last Sunday, and expect Lo hold Stanford to a minimum number of points as well. 
"We just prepared like we normally do," said Baum. "Last game both the offense and defense played well." 
· Obviously the Manorites are confi­dent in their offense. Even if they played well last week, they will have to put points on the board to win. Behind quarterback Rick Ysasi (5 of 11 pass­ing) and running back Edward Hernandez. Morrisey has a formidable offensive drive each time they get the 
ball. · 
Considering the similarities of these teams, this game could very well go down to the wire. Last season, Stanford was able to beat Morrisey for a spot in the playoffs. 
"We were fighting to get in, they were fighting to get in ... it was a pret­ty intense battle," said 
Alumni marched down the field in several series during their 6-0 loss to Dillon, but two key turnovers kept the Dawgs out of the end zone. 
"We're going to be more careful with the ball this week," said captain Nick Linstroth. "Our offense moved the ball well, but now we have to punch it in." 
Alumni suffered a loss in the back­field after the game Sunday, as tail­back Alex Roodhouse separated his shoulder. Taking his place will be sophomore T.J. Strachota. 
The running game is anchored by the strong play of the offensive line. On numerous occasions last Sunday, the Dawg running backs found gaping holes that led to solid gains. 
"We ran a lot of portside plays last week," said lineman Larry Rooney. "We're hoping to continue to pound it in there." 
The passing game for Alumni did not provide as much impact against Dillon as quarterback Chris Cottingham com­pleted only two passes. 
A strong Keough 

Dilworth. A battle is exactly what to. expect. Both  "On a scale ofone to IO, this game is a IO. We  defensive backfield looks to keep the Alumni passing  
teams have a game under their belt, and used this game experi­ have to win out the rest ofthe season. "  game in check. Linebacker Brian Adams and safety  
ence to fix any prob­ James  Waechter  
lems. And both teams expect win. "This game is impor­ Dave Dilworth Stanford captain  each had intercep­tions last week against Morrisey.  
tant because it will be  "With  guys  like  

our first win," said Baum. "It is real Mike Perrone and Brian anchoring our important to get that first win and get defense, we hope to have another good rolling." outing," said Waechter. 
The Griffins are just as confident. The Kangaroo offense will be led by 
"We still want to go 3-1," said captain quarterback Andy Hess. Dilworth. "On a scale of one to 10, this Supporting him was the star of last game is a 10. We have to win out the week's game, running back Clay rest of the season." Nuelle. Nuelle scored the only touch­
Both teams may have improved on down in Keough's game last weekend. their last performances. However, only "We looked at what we did both one will win. The game begins at 1 right and wrong, and we're hoping to 
p.m. at Stepan Fields. improve on that this weekend," sa_id Waechter. "We had a few good prac­tices this week, and we're looking for­
Alumni vs. Keough 
ward to a good game."
The match-up between Alumni and Keough this weekend could very well be one of the better in the regular sea­son. Both defenses were very strong 
Contact Dave Cook at dcook2@nd.eclu,
in their first game, and both teams 
Matt DeNicola at mdenicol@nd.ec1u and 
had success with their running games. 
Anthony Bishop at abnishpl@ncl.ec1u. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right co edir all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM- For Rent various sizes apts. avail.  OBSERVER DRIVER NEEDS TWO  USC: Loyal alum who missed the  SPRING BREAK PARTY! Indulge  
LOST AND FOUND  PUS mmmrentals.com  1-1/2 miles from ND 233-2098  GA'S TO ANY GAME CALL JACK 674-6593  lottery needs 6 USC tix. Top Dollar! Ask for Gary at toll free (888) 893­ in FREE Travel, Drinks, Food and PArties with the Best DJs and  

 email: mmmrentals@aol.com  6753 or Gehura@pegrehab.com  celebrities in Cancun, Jamaica,  
LOST bookbag in South Dining Hall  5 Rooms for rent on Football week•  Have: 4 WVU and 4 Navy tix.  Mazatlan and the Bahamas. Go to  
Tuesday. It's blue and white  THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and  ends. Many happy repeat cus- Need: ND-BC tix and/or cash  StudentCity.com, call 1-800-293­ 
Jansport with Leprechaun patch.  Breakfast Inn has space available  tomers. 2 miles north ot campus  Call Bob al 219-315-8964  1443 or email  
Please return to Laura Lacayo 4· 4273  for footbalVparenl wknds. 5 rooms with private baths, $80-$115,  277-8340  BUY-SELL  PERSONAL  sales@studentcity.com to find out more.  

 Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS  
- FOUND: Small gold pendant with Virgin Mary Found in parking lot  Toll Road Exit #107. HI00-418­9487  FOR SALE  277-6619  SPRING BREAK  Wesley Burke Knott II: Congratulations on the Breweres  
behind Lyons.Kstekbe@nd.edu  .,,,  ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED  Largest selection of Spring Break  breaking the Major League  
HOUSE FOR RENT: 1)9-br  Northsore Condo, 1428 Marigold  Destinations, including Cruises!  Baseball record for the most strike·  
WANTED  $2400/rnonth. 2) 5-br $1500/month. 3) 4-br $1000/month. Call Bill at  way near ND, 1 bdr, 1 bath, LR, DR & kitchen with appliances. 1 car  A.M. • 232-2378 P M. -288-2726  Rep Positions, Free Drinks and Free trips available.  outs in a season. ;152 and count­ing. Oh wowl  
532·1B96.  garage. $69,000.  
 www. EpicuRReancom  
STUDENT WORK  Call Doris at 254-1772  ND tickets tor sale. Lowest prices.  1-800-231-4-FUN  Boy, I wish I could have some pho•  
$14.50 Base-appt.  Turtle Creek Apt. Opening  232-0964.  tos  
1 Br $655 276-4809  '88 GMC SLE pickup truck. Looks  WANTED: SPRING BREAKERS!  
Vector Mkt. is filling PT cust  
 good, runs great. Call Mark at 273­ WANTED -ND TICKETS  Sun Coast Vacations wants to send  Ka.tie, good job with the features  
svc./sales positions {5-20hrs)  For rent: remodeled 4-bdrm house.  0449.  2B9-9280  you on Spring Break to Cancun, the  
 
Flex. around classes. Scholarships.  3 blks. from ND. Garage avail. 234·  Bahamas, Jamaica or Mazatlan  Saturday Knott Fever, baby• that's  
Cond. apply  2104  '98 Men's Schwin Frontier 19"  Wanted: ND vs BC tickets.  Please  FOR FREE!  To find out how, call 1­ where it's at  
www. workforstudents.comtnp call  Mountain Bike. Like New. Gall 277­ call 4•1157  888-777-4642 or email: sales@sun- 
M-W 12-Spm 282-2357  ROOM FOR RENT  8208 after 3:30  coastvacations.com  Gotta love the dollar store's selec- 
ND GAMES  Buying some/ Selling a few extra  lion of sunglasses  
- FOR RENT  $250 WEEKEND. CONT. BRKFST. CALL 272-0877  TICKETS  N.D. Football Tickets 219·289·8048.  Spring Break Insanity! WWW.INTER-CAMPUS.COM or call 1-800-327-8013  What am I going to do with a week· end off? Probably sleep • a lot.  
WANTED U2 TICKETS  Guaranteed lowest prices! All desti­ 
5 rooms for rent on football week- B&B  232-0964  nations! Fifteen years experience!  Yeah, I could do that. .or I could.  
ends. Many happy repeat cus­ 2-3 ROOMS HOME GAMES  ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE  Wanted: Representatives and orga•  SHOOT MYSELF!  
tamers. 2 miles N. ot campus. 277·  2 Ml NO OF CAMPUS  A.M, • 232·2378  Need 2 tix, student or GA to USC  nizatoins, earn top $$$, build your  
8340  247-1124  P M. -288-2728  game. Call Noreen at 284-4417  resume  Almost there!  
...  

Friday, September 28, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
-

WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
McGlinn looks to avenge last-second loss 
well. "The coaching staff overcom­against Lewis because they use them."
By KEN CHAMPA, PHILIP 
"We know they (Off Campus) plicated the offense [during had really athletic receivers," "We hope we win," said
KOESTERER and MATT 
are small, and we're hoping to that game]." said farley offen­Thompson said. "We haven't Wahoske. "We're excited to go
LOZAR 
wear them out with our big sive coach Chris Cordes. seen any stand-out receivers out there." roster," said Gray. "We're going to simplify every­from Howard, so we're going "I think ii' we play like our 
McGlinn's motivation for this Combating the offensive thing and work on the execu­to be keying off of the quarter­last game," said Marshall. "We week's game against the Off­attack of the Shamrocks will tion." That will likely involve back." should be able to win." Camp us team (0-3) can be be the aggressive, blitzing having Sheehan throw shorter On the defensive side or the The teams play at 4:00 p.m. found by taking a walk down defense of the Crime. Last passes in the early part of the ball, the Ducks will look to Sunday at McGlinn Fields. memory lane. This week, week, the Crime was able to game. freshmen players on the defen­McGlinn (0-1-1) has carried stymie the rushing attack of "We just need to work with sive line and its linebackers, 
Pangborn vs. Lyons
the memory of last year's Cavanaugh by t h e led by sophomore Courtney 
A youthful Pangborn squadgame with Off-Campus. keeping steady receivers Schuster, to prevent Farley 
takes the field against the
"ft was really

The Off-Campus team used a pressure on the and make from scoring any much-needed 
Lyons Lions on Sunday in
"Hail Mary" last year to defeat offensive line. disappointing to lose [on sure that points. 
women's interhall football.
the Shamrocks in the waning Off-Campus they're "Our defense controlled the
a last-second Hail Mary "Our team has all new face!i 
moments of a rain-soaked has found prac­running ball and had a great game and new coaches," said
last year]."

game, 7-0. tice time hard to the correct [against Off-Campus]." said 
Pangborn co-captain senior
"It was really disappointing come by, whic.;h routes," Untiedt. 
Katrina Paulson. 
to lose like that," said veteran has made exe­said Farley
Sarah Vatterott Dillon Hall seniors Chris
Sarah Vatterott. cuting on offense coach Irish
McGlinn captain Badin vs. Breen-Phillips LaRossa and junior John Dues
This week's practice has very tough to do. Thompson. 
The battle of good defenses lead the Phoxes from the side­-­brought back the memory of Outside of the For their 
will be the highlight of line.
losing that hcartbreaker, and actual games, the Crime hasn't part, Howard will be working 
Sunday's women's interhall Freshmen Charlotte Troupis
the veteran Shamrocks are spent a great deal of time out of a more varied playbook. 
football game between the and Alissa Mendoza playworking to make sure it working out their offensive According to team captain 
Badin Bullfrogs and the Breen­prominent roles on the offensedoesn't happen again. kinks. They have been held Katie Cawley, this trend con­Phillips Babes. and defense. Troupis is theThis season the Shamrocks scoreless in their last two tributed to the Ducks' 18-0 win BP's defense led them to an Phoxes' quarterback whilehave worked on offensive cre­games. over the Off-Campus Crime 8-0 win over Pasquerilla West Mendoza plays at numerousativity, thanks to newly found Making the situation worse is Wave. 
on the opening weekend of the defensive positions. 
starting quarterback Julie the fact that the Crime's start­"(Cawly]had a huge game season. The Lions have worked onKremer. ing quarterback and team running the ball [on Sunday]. 
"Our defense is doing great," improving their defense this"She (Julie) did a good job," leader Abbey Ross will not be and we want to keep that up," 
said BP captain senior Jenny week.
said team captain Christa in action this Sunday, which said Howard coach Brad 
Wahoske. . "We have changed up ourGray. "She really has a lot of will no doubt hurt an already Untiedt. 
Leading the defense is defense formation in practice," 
-

confidence." struggling offense. "We worked more as a team, sophomore outside linebacker said Lyons senior captain Irene
"Our playbook is always and when the coaches brought 
Kelly Deckelman and free safe­Onyeagbako.
expanding," said Vatterott. in a bunch of new plays, we
Farley vs. Howard ty junior Tricia Keppel. Despite being neighbors, the
"We have a lot of fun in prac­communicated better and the
Farley quarterback Megan "Kelly made some great captains did not seem to think
tice creating different plays." plays worked," said Cawley.
Sheehan and company are tak­plays last week," said there was any rivalry between
What helps the offense click She and Howard quarterback
ing baby steps. Going into Wahoske. the two dorms.
is the fact that all of the mem­Jill Veselik will be working to
Sunday's match-up against the The Bullfrog defense should "There hasn't been a chance
bers have contributed. perfect the new plays and get
Howard Ducks at 2 p.m. on also be ready to stop the to build it up," said Paulson.
"Everyone of our receivers their team back into Notre
West Quad, Farley's Finest will Babes' offense. "But I guess they would be our
caught a pass last game," said Dame and avenge last year's
concentrate on the fundamen­"Our defense played really closest rival." 
Vatterott. "Everyone con­championship game loss.
tals of victory. well in the last two games," Hard work this week has led
tributed on offense for us." Thompson wasn't worried,
The Finest were once again said Badin co-captain Amy the Lions becoming more of a
McGlinn is also hoping to however.
held scoreless on Tuesday Marshall. unit.
take advantage of the small "Our Man-Cover-Two
night, this time against the Sophomore cornerback Jen "Everyday we are looking
size of Off-Campus's roster as defense didn't look that good
Chicks of Lewis Hall. Craig and senior safety Beth better and better," said Rimkus have led the Bulldog Onyeagbako. "We are improv­defense. ing daily. We pull out weight 
"Beth's interception in our equally and put in a lot of hard last game [against Lyons] real­work." ly helped us," said Marshall. The Phoxes have one simple 
Both teams have changed goal for this Sunday's game. their offense in practice this "We are just trying to win," week. said Paulson. 
"Our offense is okay, we have put in some new plays this week," said Wahoske. Contact Ken Champa at kcham­
"We put in a couple of pa@nd.edu, Philip Koesterer at plays," said Marshall. pkoester@nd.edu and Matt Lozar "Hopefully, we'll be able to at mlozar@nd.edu. 
Need a place to park one block 


PAINTBALL 
froni the A&M" Canipus? 
NOTREDAMEYOUHAVEBEEN CHALLENGED!!!!
The College J\tl:ain Parking Garage 
50¢/hour 6 a.m. -7 p.m. PURDUE UNIVERSITY is bringing a group to Action 
$1.50/hour 7 p.m. -2 a.m. 
Park Paintball in Mishawaka on Sunday September 30 
$10 daily max 
and has officially challenged any ND students to come out and play against them, special discounted rates! 
or 

Special discount rates for this outing have been given by 
The Promenade Parking Lot 
the field, call 219-674-GAME for more details and to 
(Church Street) 
reserve your spot. Action Park is located minutes from 
$10 ALL DAY PARKING! 

~alkto the game «:»r 
take a, :flree sh.u:ttie% 
(pi.ck ••p/drops d.i:reetl:y 
in f"ron.t of the garage> 
campus, for a map go to actionparkpaintball.com 
The fun and registration starts at 11:00, call now for more details and save your spot in the action!!!! 
• 
Largest outdoor field in area, 23 + wooded acres. 

• 
Multiple fields .... can you defend the castle? 


-

• We provide all rental equipment needed! 
J:l'or 1nore inforrnation call 764-3565. 
-
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, September 28, 200 I 
. 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY

MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL BLUE LEAGUE 
O'Neill hungry for more wins 
By KEVIN BOYLE and MATT DeNICOLA 
Sports Writers 
What was it like for O'Neill Hall never having won before? 
"It just made us that much more hungry," team captain John Enterline said. 
O'Neill had a breakthrough win last week with a 14-7 vic­tory over St. Ed's, but their hunger was not satisfied. O'Neill hopes to follow up last week's monumental win in their upcoming match-up with Fisher Hall. 
"We're looking to build upon last week," Enterline said. "We're not going to stop after one win, we want to get some­thing going and get into the playoffs. Every game is a big game." 
Fisher is also coming off of a big win, last week they defeat­ed Knott 24-8. The offense was productive against a tradition­ally stingy defense while the Wave's own defense forced four turnovers. 
The Wave, however, is not cocky or complacent. They won't overlook the Angry Mob

-
despite its lackluster football tradition. 
"With new freshmen coming in any team could be a con­tender, you have to be ready every week," Fisher captain Ray Aftandilians said. 
Last week both teams' defen­sive line did a good job of putting pressure on the quar­terback. 
"Our linebackers came up big last week, and our defensive line did a great job of applying pressure," Aftandilians said. 
"We need to continue to do our best to have everyone go all out on defense until the whistle stops; that's what you have to do to win. Offense will help us out but defense is what will get us to the stadium." 
On the offensive end, the Angry Mob stuck mqstly to the ground while the Wave main­tained a more balanced attack. Fisher was not as offensively dominant as the score would indicate. they got lucky and had one tipped ball that was caught for a touchdown. Thev need to and are focused on improving their execution against O'Neill. 
"The catch got us through. but we want to make prepara­tion work rather than luck this week,'' Aftandilians said. 
O'NeUl is looking to add a few new wrinkles this week to the offense that only passed three times last Sunday. They appear to have the weapons to do so, with quarterback Troy Montgomery connecting to wide receiver Kyle Johnson twice for touchdowns last game. If only they kept Interhall quarterback ratings. 
Neither team is backing down this week, Fisher's main con­cern will still probably be stop­ping the O'Neill ground game while the Angry Mob needs to shut down Wave tailback Kameron Chappel and an effec­tive aerial assault. 
Stanford vs. Morrissey 
It has often been said that the best offense is a good defense. As true as this may seem, the fact remains that you cannot win football games without scoring touchdowns. 

Ask Stanford or Morrissey, neither of whom scored a touchdown in their season opener. But when these two teams face off this Sunday, nei­ther team wants that to happen again. 
"We've been focusing on defense and trying to improve the pass attack," said Stanford captain Dave Dilworth. The Griffins allowed only one touch­down last week, and hope that the defense can step up in a similar fashion this weekend. 
Stanford's defense may not need much work, but the offense struggled in their open­er. Dilworth is confidenfthat his offense can come alive. 
"Our running game is our strength: running the ball. con­trolling the ball, and not giving it to the other team," Dilworth said. 
Dilworth's confidence in the run is not unfounded, consider­ing the two man back attack of Dan Campion and Mark McNamee, who each had seven carries in the last game. 
"Our backfield is really strong ... they can always come up with a big play," said Dilworth. 
But Morrissey is not fright­ened by the Griffin backfield. 
"I think we are strong enough to beat any team," said Morrissey captain Andy Baum. "If we need to make adjust­ments during the game, then we will." 
The Manorites also allowed only one touchdown last Sunday, and expect to hold Stanford to a minimum number of points as well. 
"We just prepared like we normally do," said Baum. "Last game both the offense and defense played well." 
Obviously the Manorites are confident in their offense. Even if they played well last week, they will have to put points on the board to win. Behind quar­terback Rick Ysasi (5 of 11 passing) and running back Edward Hernandez, Morrisey has a formidable offensive drive each time they get the ball. 
Considering the similarities of these teams, this game could very well go down to the wire. Last season, Stanford was able to beat Morrisey for a spot in the playoffs. , 
"We were lighting to get in, they were fighting to get in ... it was a pretty intense battle,'' said Dilworth. 
A battle is exactly what to expect. Both teams have a game under their belt. and used this game experience to fix any problems. And both teams expect win. 
"This game is important because it will be our first win," said Baum. "It is real important to get that first win and get rolling." 
The Griffins are just as confi­dent. 
"We still want to go 3-1," said Dilworth. "On a scale of 1 to 10, this game is a 10. We have to win out the rest of the sea­son." 
Both teams may have improved on their last perfor­mances. However, only one will win. 
Contact Kevin Boyle at kboyle@nd.edu and Matt DeNicola at mdenicol@nd.edu 
Belles head to invite 
By DESIREE BROSE 
Spores Writer 
The Relles cross country team is ready to run. 
For the past three meets, the team has had a great opportuni­ty to see whore they stand and get to know each other's strengths and weaknesses. They arc working together and ready to step forth and run through the finish line. 
"We are starting to improve and unite as a team," said junior Jennie Buehler. 
This Saturday at the Lakefront Invitational at Loyola University, Jackie Bauters is the runner to watch. So far, Bautcrs, a sopho­more, has proven to be the strength of the team. She has been one of the BeJles' top six runners in all three meets they have run in this year. 
Her best time so far was 20 minutes, 43 seconds at the Aquinas College Invitational, the first meet of tqe season. She placed in the top 17 overall in all of the team's five-kilometer races. Bauters is hoping to enhance her time and place in the top five for this upcoming race. 
The meet will be at 10 a.m. on Saturday. 
Contact Desiree Brose at bros5629@saintmarys.edu 

HP 315 Oigtal Rio 600/32MBcamera MP3 Player •••• I • • • ~ t I t ' • • . Canon ZR20 or Handspring VISOf ZAZ5 MC Camcorder Edge Handhad Buy more. Save more. Buy any Mac and receive a free Lexmark color printer* Save even more when you also buy these great products: (r.ax and other charges not inducted). Canon ZR20 or ZR25 MC Camcorder, HP 315 l)igital Camera, Handspring Visor Edge Now·s the time to buy your Mac. They're fast, easy to use, and Handheld, and Rio 600132MB MP3 Player. For each product you buy, you'll receive loaded with fearures. Express yourself by creating your own a SlOO instant rebate. iMovies. Use iTunes to rip MP3s from your favorite CDs, or Take advantage ofspecial student pricing. You can even get an Apple burn custom CDs. Enhance your work with productivity Instant Loan for Education. Buy and save online at the Apple Store for Education: and graphics software. And share files with anyone. www.apple.com/education/store, call 800-780-5009, or visit the Solutions Center in The benefits add up---just like the savings. CCMB, Room 112. Offer good between July 18, 2001, and October 14, 2001. • 51Xt pudmc ifGIJrcd n1 Ill ..,_1 IU~m. O!fa bax=d un f69iuiantn:k.i:ard f69 N.mll&:t11ru'1SiJ~kwl'1x.-c lie the l.cJ.rtwi Z3l CobrJcrprmtct Offa alsl.i il)IJd klWltl! 16') ,wni lt:balt fur Jl.t'} MSRPon lhc l.c\11w\ .ZS) Coiur Jt1pn111CT. 0.ZOOl~C.0.,e,;lm;..JJlfiRbtltfSl!Fl~"{Jfllt,tl,eiw,Jeq'Q,~~.#Qc.und'Thlri.itt/.J,M.n1".-rot,ati,,,unso(J.pplieca,np,,te,;h,,rr,rlller'fdi,r&beUS.,r,ulc,be!rco...,.,../Mol·M'l1atradrmo,tof/i}pleCOmpllle>;b.OthercalflptOfya,,J/J'f)dllltt1amarrw!ffl'°1Wdbmlrlm41bt tradfflllri:sc/ IM!r ti!lj)«11t.w tlllft{ianiB. 11iuter It JiCZfll#djor ~tinorwtpJ-rlflbU!dr,uu,rla,slJr 11141friabtbe Ulffl.f lff(lffy~llt/111 ta ,eprod!M'. Auth:ri7.a.l lesellff  

Friday, September 28, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Dutch sweep Belles 

By MATT MOONEY Sports Writer 
Thursday was not a good day for the Saint Mary's vol­leyball team. 
The bad news started when senior captain Angela Meyers' MRI revealed a torn ACL. Having lost their captain for the season, the Belles trav­eled to Holland, Michigan to face the conference leading Flying Dutch of Hope College. 
The situation did not improve as-Hope dispatched Saint Mary's in three straight games, 30-17, 30.. 25, 30-26. . The Belles find themselves in a slump. Having lost their last four matches, the team needs a victory of any kind. 
As though things weren't bad enough, her absenc~ makes an already young team oven more inexperienced. Losing Meyers depletes the senior count to three. 
In place of Meyers, Saint Mary's had to look elsewhere to replace her. Alison Shevik led the team in that category with 13 total digs while Jolie LeBeau posted 10 kills and six blocks. Jaime Dineen chipped in 15 assists. Junior Elizabeth Albert, now the :best statisti­cal player. natl the best all­around game with three aces, nine digs, and six kills. 
However. in losing Meyers, ths Belles not only lost their strongest statisti-cal player, buLalso ..the.ir. ~apt.q,in,, This senior has the longest tenure of anyone on the team along with two school records. 
In an attempt to replace Meyers, LeBeau will take over 

CHRISTINA REITANO/The Observer 

A Saint Mary's player serves the ball during a match last 
week. 

as the team leader. However, for -the team to develop new chemistry, it will take time. 
Throughout the season, Saint Mary's has struggled to d~velop on court chemistry and communication. After 
· finally establishing some sem­blance of team cohesion on 
· the court, suddenly the team is•back to square one. 

r\ 

.?it ,' 
. 1<":\f< ~ t~,_,.·•~,~·rii'!;J r\;' .1/""
llQ~UUlll"1W
3 & 6 MILE RUNS, 2 MILE WALK AND PANCAKE BREAKFAST SATU~DAY,-SEPTEMBER 29 11:00 -STEPAN CENTER 
T-SHIRTS TO ALL FINISHERS REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS 
$6.00 IN ADVANCE AND $7.00 DAY OF RACE 
DEADLINE FOR ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS 9/28/00 AT 5:00PM STUDENT AND STAFF DMSIONS 
T-SHIRTS DONATED BY THE ND ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 

The team aims to regroup this weekend. The Belles look to snap their losing streak this Saturday as they host Alma and Barat in a three­team round robin tourna­ment. 
Contact Matt Mooney at mmonney@nd.edu 

Cosimo's Hair Salon Welcomes Maria 
specializing In great haircuts, expert color and highlighting. Student discounts now available. (Shampoo, Haircut, & Style) For.,Men-$20 For Women-$30 Open Mon-Sat 8am-6pm
Tel. 277-1875 
Located near campus at 
1707 South Bend Ave (US 23)Call and ask for Maria Walk-ins welcome 
~C>""'\]\7 L:E:..A.SIN<:;; FC>R. TFIE 2002 -::Z.003 SC::I-I~<>~ -Y:E...A.~ 
I>~:LVILTS P:R.<>PE:R.'TIES IIA.S 
2.,, .... , s,. 6, 7~ 8,, 9 ..tWc. :1.0 

ESE.ll>JR.<><>1'>S: -<>~SES 
STlC:T:l>~l"l'.JC" ~XC:...o::18lc:>--.<><>I>S 
CJL<>SE TC> C~IJ"S 
S.IECU--~~ .s.,..-s-rBri,.,s:s
__..;wc.._,I.. ~TA.:11::N'E-.:> JEICc'.>~:.OS ~~ENANCESTAFFONCALL VV.A.lSEl:E.11iC. .A.l"or:&> :.>:M.~~ 
C<>NT.A..C"X' ~lilt. (:219> 298-96731 <>R. (2:19) 234-2:436 
'C>B-(.21'.!>) C>74-:2S7"1 
page 17 

HOCKEY 
Blue-Gold game to raise cash_for charity 
By MATT ORENCHUK 
Spom Writer 
This Sunday when the Notre Dame hockey team suits up for its charity Blue­Gold game, it will hit close to home. That is because the game is to raise money for the Coaches Foundation for cancer research. What makes it unique is that every player has ded.icated the game to a person he knows with cancer. 
Team captain Evan Nielsen is playing for Doug Wickenheiser. 
"My dad played profession­al hockey, and one of his teari1mates was Doug," said 
"[The Blue-Gold game] is 
Nielsen. "He ensure the was in his late a great thing to have. We m a t c h thirties when would be
just started this week, 
he died of can­competi­
and it is nice to have a
cer. Everyone tive. A knows someone big kickoff for the bonus for who has had Irish hock­
season.
it." 

ey fans is The idea for a that this cancer fund­Evan Nielsen 
will be the raiser started Irish captain first time 
five years ago with the Notre Dame hockey Run for Cancer. That event lasted for three years. Last fall, the fund­raiser was switched to a hockey scrimmage. 
The idea for a cancer fund­raiser came from Ma.ine hockey coach Shawn Walsh. Walsh was diagnosed with cancer, and then preceded to help set up the Coaches Foundation. Last year the 
Blue-Gold game raised $3,500 for the foundation. 
Unfortunately a somber mood will be felt on Sunday, since Walsh passed away this week from his cancer. 
"It was really shocking to hear about his death since all the news we heard indicated he was doing fine," said assistant coach Andy Slaggert. 
"I was shocked by [Walsh's] death," said Nielsen. "He was a well respected coach, and it is a big loss for college hock­ey." 
For the game the squad will split up into two teams, Blue and Gold. Assignments to the teams was random, to 
to  see  the  
.  freshman  
class  on  ice. The play will  

consist of two 21-minute periods. The te_am is excited to be back on the ice trying to forget last year's disas­trous campaign. 
"It [the Blue-Gold game] is a great thing to have." Nielsen said. "We just started this week, and it is nice to have a big kickoff for the sea­son." 
The Irish have a scrimmage against the University of Toronto next weekend in the JACC. The season starts against Union College on Thursday Oct. 11th. 
The Blue-Gold game action starts Sunday afternoon at 4 
p.m. Admission is free, but fans are asked to make a donation at the door. 
Contact Matt Orenchuk at morenchu@nd.edu 
SPRING BREAK 2002

4 rooms, 2 miles from campus 
219-277-6068 

, email: wjb4321@aol.com 
www.oeocities.com/ alzard 
Se

NOTRE DAME 
HOCKEY 

2nd ANNUAL BLUE/GOLD GAME Sunday. Sept. 30th @ 4:00pm 
First 300 fans receive a FREE Blimpie 6" sub couponl! 
'F'R!E~ admission to tfu Bame. Vonations \Ni{{6e tafen or Coaches vs. Cancer. 

#4 Notre Dame Women's Soccer vs. 
West Virginia 
' 
' 
• 
.' 
. 
.
.-. ' . 
' '. . . . 
. . . . . 
. 
-

page 18 _ The Observer . SPORTS Friday, September 28, 2001 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
Irish battle Big East foes 
By SUSAN CARPENTER 
Sports Writer 
The No. 24 Notre Dame women's volleyball team will face two crucial Big East opponents this week­end. The lrish start off against Virginia Tech tonight at 7 p.m. and finish with a contest against Georgetown on Sunday at 2p.m. 
Tonight's match will be the first ever between Notre Dame and Virginia Tech. Unable to rely on past meetings, the Irish have been doing their homework by studying tapes and team statistics. At 3-7 and 0-2 in the Big East, Virginia Tech is the underdog, but the Irish consider their game with the Hokies to be an important Big East match­up. 
"It doesn't matter what they're bringing," coach Debbie Brown said. "It mat­ters what we're doing on our side of the net." 
In Notre Dame's last match against Syracuse, the Irish had 10 aces and five service errors. Coach Brown hopes to continue to hit efficiently with a hitting percentage of .300 while holding the opponent to a .110 hitting perc-entage. 
In their 11 matches with 
Georgetown, the Irish lead the Boyas 10-1. The Hoyas should not be underesti­rn ated, however. Last year's match was close with the Irish edging out on top 3-2. 
"They've proved to have a stronger team each year we've played them," Senior captain Marcie Bomhack said, "We treat them as top contenders in the Big East." 
The Hoyas are also enjoy­ing a winning streak of their own. The team has won its last three games to bolster their season record to 5-4 and has a notable record of 2-0 in the Big East. Voted by the 13 Big East coaches to finish a strong fifth in the confer­ence, Georgetown could be a formidable opponent for Notre Dame. 
Leading the young Hoya team is Yulia Vtyurina who was selected as the Big East Player of the Week last week. The Irish are sure to heighten their intensity for this Big East competitor. 
The Hoya victory over the Irish three years ago, "sparked a rivalry," Bomhack said. "We don't ever want that to happen again." 
Notre Dame has a season record of 5-3 and is 1-0 in the Big East. After losing close battles with No. 1 
Nebraska, No. 15 
Pepperdine and No. 7 UCLA 
earlier in September, the 
team defeated Valparaiso 
and Syracuse to build its 
current two-game winning 
streak. 
With renewed focus and a 
surge of momentum, the 
Irish look to maintain their 
dominating presence in the 
Big East, having not lost a -Big East match since 1998. 
Notre Dame has a win­
ning mindset because the 
team takes each opponent 
one match at a time. 
Heading into a match. the 
Irish aim to win in 3 games. 
In addition, part of Notre 
Dame's strategy includes 
continually setting goals for 
themselves for each compe­
tition. The main objective 
for the Irish is to score 
points on the serve. 
The team would also like 
to improve their overall sta­
tistics such as hitting per­
cent blocks. Senior Malinda 
Goralski continues to be an 
important asset for the 
Irish. Leading the team 
with an average of over 
three kills per game, 
Goralski will be on offensive 
power while her ability to 
dominate the net will keep 
the Irish in control of the 
game. 
Contact Susie Carpenter at scar­
pent@nd.edu 

SMC SOCCER 
Red-hot Belles win third straight 
By KATRINA KALASKY 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's didn't play like a team of freshman Thursday. 
When SMC took the field against Indiana Tech, the_ team was play-. ing against a squad that had only played teams of freshmen. Indiana Tech never stood a chance against the Belles, who slapped them with a 5-0 victory_ for their third consecutive season victory. 
"Since the scrimmage [again~t Indiana Tech earlier this season] the girls have matured as players and established a composed style of play," said head coach Bobby Johnston. 
After a 0-5 star.t to the season, the young Belles team is finally moving in the right direction. 
They dominated the whole game, beginning with the three goals they scored in the first half. Two were scored by freshman Shannon Artnak and one was scored by freshman Jen Concannon, who has been an instrumental playl:lr with four goals and five assists in the past week. 
"We came together as a team," Concannon said. "We were pass­ing well and we're getting the job done." 
During the second half, Saint Mary's freshmen continued to 
dominate play. Freshman Molly McCavitt scored twice, once on a penalty and again on a corner kick. There was no contest on offense. Saint Mary's had 37 shots on goal while Indiana Tech could only manage 5. 
At the halfway point in their season, most of the players con­tribute their recent winning streak to having more experience working as a team. 
"We know how to play together as a team now," McCavitt said. 
With three wins under their belts. the Belles continue their MIAA season against number one ranked Albion College on Sunday. 
Despite the fact that his young team is taking on a conference powerhouse, Johnston plans to keep everything just as it is. 
''We've been playing well so we will keep the same style," he said. 
The Belles winning streak has increased their confidence and they are ready to take on solid competition. 
"It should be a good game.," said captain Lynn Taylor. "We're coming in with a lot of good momentum and a lot of confi­dence." 
The game gets under way at 10 

a.m. on the Saint Mary's soccer fields. ­
Contact Katrina Kalasky at kala5482@saintmarys.edu 


L 
PR 
SUMMER2002 

Four and a half week.s for six hours ofacaden-1ic _credit (May 15-June 16) 
.,_,,.. 

\,:'-''e«J 11 est:::la'-'~ (")ct.::>l:>t.~r ()3~ 20f)-'1
.....--· 
7 : {)t:) J:> i\,,l 

-
1.~<:><'._'/'--r·_1t:...>-[';: 1~<)<>1v·1 WLJ_!. r>t<B,A.r~'rt)I.,.,f) 
(77iose interesre4f in s·unu·n:er 2003 are ah::o invite¥!) 
-
'C°h· <~aH ~--0622 t,L,nn,don Sunln1..e-r Pro1-t;>t·..un ()tTicc-) frH· an ~p,_i,fi4.•~•tion and. 
ru l'.lgr•.un iuf~_:.H"Hl.:l Hun 

.. 

--------~--------­
Friday, September 28, 200 I The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
SMC GOLF 
Belles in thick of MIAA championship hunt 

JNTERRAC€: 


Ce1'1te0 fo,· Social Co11ce011s 5:30 p.1n, 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associate SpoHs Editor 
No more practice runs. Today is the real thing. 
Three MIM tournaments, each one with a different winner, and two months of practice all come down to this weekend. 
Saint Mary's wraps up its con­ference season this weekend at the MIAA Championship at Brookwood golf course and the Belles want to come home with a 
Amish Handcrafted Solid Oak Rockers, Gliders and Furniture 
Homemade Jams & Jellies Homemade Noodles Jake and Amos Products from Pennsylvania Large Selection of Amish and Mennonite Cookbooks Willow Tree Angels form Demdaco Angels and Amish Oak frame prints by Nancy Noel Gift Certificates and Gift Items for All Occasions 
Candles by Bridgewater Hand Carved Oil Lamp Candles Homestead -Gel Candles Leanin tree Cards 


Laser engraved cherry Plaques & Pictures by 
P. Graham Dunn Artwork of World Famous Indiana Artist Nancy Noel. Known for Angel Artwork and also Her 
-
Uistinctive Ami"sh Children Paintings . 
1/4 mile soutli of'l/S 12 *·Next d~1or to the Prime ·T~b(e 
· 'Afstaurant 
trophy. 
"We all want to ,vin," team cap­tain Megan Keleher said. "We've really been leading up to this and we've been playing consistently all season." 
Consistency is going to be key for the Belles this weekend. Competition Hope and Alma have:_ .been lead by a single solid player shooting under 80 -Lacy Wicksall for Hope and Courtney Rheinhardt for Alma. But Saint Mary's plays solidly across the 
'Mon-tfiurs 10:ooam-7:ooym 'Fri 9:ooam-8:ooym Sat 9:ooam-8:ooym Sun cCosed 

1935 S. 11tli St. 'Niles, 'M'l 49120 Plionc (616)(,83-652_ 'Fax (616)683-6539 
board, with all four of their top golfers finishing in the top 10 in the three past MIAA tourna­ments. 
This weekend, as they tee off on their home course, the Belles are hoping that consistency comes through. 
"We have a big advantage play­ing on our own home course," Keleher said. "I think that's key ... because we know the course so well we'll all play consistently." 
Keleher will be joined by a 
tJ{ours 


INFORMATION NIGHT 
· The Investment Office of the University of Notre Dame is offering 
Two investment analyst 
p-ositions for graduating 
•

seniors 
Monday, _October 1, 2.001 Center for Continuing Education/ N1cKenna Hall Room 112-114 
7:30 PM Refreshlnents and discussion with Investment Office Personnel 
8:00 PM Special Presentation by 
Scott Malpass, Vice President for Finance & Chief Investment Officer 
The entire InvestmentTeam will be available to answer questions about the opportunity. 


young group of golfers who have led the team all season. Freshman Stefanie Simmerman has consistently been the top golfer for the Belles this season and is hoping to be a top finisher again this weekend. 
"Personally my goal is to go out there and play to the best of my ability," she said. 'Tmreally look­ing to go out there and place somewhere in the top three or four." 
Freshman Julia Adams, sopho­more Liz Hanlon and junior Molly Lee will take their places along­side Keleher and Simmerman as the Belles top five golfers. 
"As an individual I think that because it's a championship round ... I hope to post a good score and to help the team," Hanlon said. 
The Belles posted a victory dur­ing the first MIAA tournament, but fell to third and second in the next two tournaments. But this weekend they have the home course advantage. The last three years competition at Brookwood Golf Course has been rained out, so this weekend marks the first time any MIAA team will step foot on the course. 
"This is a great benefit to us because this course is one that every other. girl in the conference is not a favorite of," Hanlon said. "Knowing the course is a big ben­efit for us." 
Contact Katie McVoy at rncvo5695@saintmarys.edu 
-


This month's discussion will focus on the stages of interracial dating and the values associated 1Nith them. Anyone interested in this topic is welcome to attend. FREE Spanish food will be served in honor of Hispanic Heritage Month. 
RSVP to MSPS at 631-5317 
page 20 The Observer. SPORTS -Friday, September 28__, 2001 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF ND CROSS COUNTRY 
New coach brings -new approach 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Spores Writer 
Every Tuesday and Thursday morning at 5:30 a.m., Shannon Byrne and her team­mates crawl out of their beds and head to the weight room to begin the day's circuit training. 
This is a new era in Notre Dame women's golf. 
After just three victories last season and unorganized prac­tices, the Jrish, under the direction of their first full­time coach, are ready to focus their efforts on making a name for the team. This weekend, they start with their first intercollegiate tourna­ment. 
"I have a five year plan to get us into the top 2 5 [in the nation's women's golf' rank­ings!," said new coach Debbie King. 
King has led the University of Memphis women's golf pro­gram to the NCAA tournament four out of the past five sea­sons. 
Their quest begins Saturday at the Warren Golf Course, where the Irish are looking to defend their Notre Dame Invitational title. The competi­tion this year is supposed to be tougher than before. Under the leadership of King, the team has stepped up its work­outs and they feel they are ready to win. 
The Irish have not played since the Notre Dame Women's Golf Campus Championship Sept. 7 and 8. 
"We're itching to get going," said Byrne. 
In the past, the golfers usu­ally had to practice on their own, as there was not much structure with a part-time 
coach. King's full-time pres­ence has completely altered the team's routines, with the weight and cardio workouts two mornings a week as well as more strudured practices in general. 
"The additional structure has caused us to focus," said Byrne. "We're all on the same page now, and we know exact­ly what's expected of us." 
King believes one of the major keys to improving the team's stature is getting the players to believe in them­selves. 
"I like to work my players from the inside out," she said. 
King, showing her dedication to the Irish, summed up her reason for coming to Notre Dame in one sentence. 
"I felt my chances of winning a national championship would be better [at Notre Dame]," she said. 
There are not just one or two leaders of the Irish. "Everyone will have their time to contribute, and everyone's going to be needed," said Byrne. 
In addition to veterans Rebecca Rogers, Kristin McMurtie, Jeanne Murphy, Taibl, and Byrne, the team will also look to freshmen Karen Lotta and Casey Rotella. 
The members of the Irish women's golf team realize that changes are coming to their program, and are looking for­ward to the prospects pro­posed to them by King. 
"Things are going up for us. We all feel like we're a part of something," Byrne said. "That's exciting. It's a chal­lenge." 

Contact Joe Lindsley at jlind­sle@nd.edu 
• 
' 
. 
. .
' ­
.
' 
.
. .• 
. . 
There's a reason we're called Travelers. 
. . . 
. . 
Join the company that has plenty of room for advancement. Since becoming 
. 
a member of Citigroup, we've become part of one of the largest financial 
. . 
services companies on the planet. And that translates into an environment
. . 
where careers can really go places. When you join Travelers. you're joining . . 
an innovative leader. So make the right move with us and enjoy world class 
. 
benefits from day one. 

We're coming to campus to interview for: 
• lnfonnation Technology Leadership Development Program 
• 
Actuarial Leadership Development Program 

• 
Finance Leadership Development Program 


Interview Date -November 8, 2001 Resume Drop Date -October 2, 2001 
If you can't join us, please submit resume indicating area of interest to; 
College Relations, Travelers, One Tower Square, SCZ, Hartford, CT 06183-7150. Fax: 860-277-1970. Email: college@travelers.com 
TravelersJ~ 
Visit our Web 5ite: www.travelers.com 
We are an Equal Opportu!'lit:Y/Affirmati11e Action Employer, committed to worl<force diversity. We actively promote a drug-free workplace. 

Irish race to weekend meets 
By KATIE HUGHES 
Spom Writer 

The men's cross country team will head to Kalamazoo, Mich. this Saturday for the Central Collegigate Championships without their top runners. All-Americans Hyan Shay and Luke Watson, who combined with sophomore Todd Mobley to take the first three spots in last weekend's National Catholic Invitational will not run. Seniors Pat Conway and Marc Striowski, or sophomores David Alber and Brian Kerwin will also take the weekend off l'rom competi­tion. 
After last week's first place finish at the National Catholic Invitational, the team moved up to No. 4 in the national rankings. 
Juniors Kevin Avenius, John Keane, Kevin Brown and Nathan Shay, sopho­more Kevin Somok, senior Tom Lennon, freshmen Ryan Johnson and Eric Morrison. and fifth year senior Sean Zanderson will run for Notre Dame this Saturday. 
"1 have no idea how they're going to finish," said head coach Joe Piane. "And if you were to ask them they would say the same thing." 
Though next week's Notre Dame lnvitational will be their first opportu­nity for the team to be tested against other nationally ranked competi­
tion, this meet will provide a good chance for the mid­dle of the pack runners to possibly move into varsity competition. 
"It's not quite as big of a meet. but it's a crucial meet for those that are on the bubble"' said Avcnius. "That's why we're running the group we are." 
Western Michigan and Ohio University should be the closest competition for Notre Dame. Though the runners will be different from the full strength Irish lineup, the same pack strategy that fueled last weekend's individual and team success will prevail in Saturday's race. Notre Dame took the first, sec­ond, third, fifth, eighth, 11th and 16th spots in last weekend's meet. 
"On any given day, there are 10 guys competing for the number four, five, and six spots," said Avenius. "It's going to be tough for the coach to make that call, but you have to go week to week." 
"It's a good problem to have,'' said Piane. 
The women will also hold out their top seven runners from last week's National Catholic Championships, where they took second out of the 26 team field. 
Junior Jen Handley, who took first place in the meet, as well as freshman Lauren King, sophomore Megan Johnson, who was third at the National Catholic Championships, 
and freshman Christi Arnerich, will rest this weekend. Junior Susan Creary, sophomores Rachel Endress and Megan Peterson. senior Hilary Burn, and freshman Katie Wales will be among those competing Saturday. 
"We want to give those kids an opportunity to compete in a race that's a team situation," said head coach Tim Connelly. "We can use this meet as a gauge to see where we are." 
Ohio University, Wisconsin, and Detroit Mercy should be the teams closest to Notre Dame. 
"We're going to make a consciou·s effort to work together," said Endress. 
"Everyone, no matter what level. We have to work on pack running and motivating each other." 
As the team continues to grow this season they have combined experience with new talent. They will also continue to develop their pack running strategy. 
"It helps being able to go out where you're supposed to and stay with front run­ners at start," said Creary. 
"The group is very tal­ented, and we are confi­dent about our ability to compete," said Endress. "A Jot of the people, espe-_ cially Susie Creary and Megan Peterson have improved vastly since last year." · 
Contact Katie Hughes at khughes@nd.edu 


Author Signing 
Meet author 
Philip Yancey 
Monday 
October 1st 
7:00 pm 
in the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 

HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: 631-6316 • www.ndbookstore.tom 
Friday, September 28, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
1934 marks beginning of a revolution 
. Jackson Park Tournament marks first competition for Saint Mary's 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
Sports Wri rer 
When Anne Pikosovits and Frances Fuller were playing field hockey at Saini Mary's, they had no idea they were creating a revolution. 
They simply wanted to have fun with their friends. So in the fall of 1934, 12 women came together to form a field hockey team, marking the first time there was any organized athletic team at the College. 
"We just wanted· to have fun, to get out of the classroom," said Pikosovits, who will accept the 1934 Field Hockey Team's Hall of Fame induction at Angela Athletic Facility Saturday. ''We wanted to do something besides study all the time ... that's how we got together." 
Under the di.rection of Isabel Kane, a physi­cal culture instructor at the College, the stu­dents met for practice and scrimmaged after class. For most of them, it was the first time they had been exposed to the sport. 
While Pikosovits remembers impromptu vol­leyball games held in ·the gymnasium, and the College handbook states students took daily walks down the tree-lined avenue for "fulfill­ment of daily exercise," women's athletics were unheard of in the 1930s. 
The team soon made a name for itself both within Saint Mary's community and the region when they were invited to play in Jackson Park's Play Day in Chicago, a regional tourna­ment for teams from local colleges. The South Bend Tribune reported on the event, writing that the College sponsored a spaghetti dinner, a "rousing" pep rally and sold hockey patches to fund the team's trip. 
For the team who had never played against anyone but themselves, it was the opportunity of a lifetime. 
"We were so young, so inexperienced ... we hadn't played anyone else," Pikosovits said. "We had never left the campus for a game before." 
The team was scheduled for three 15­minute games on Saturday, Nov. 10, 1934, and walked away tying University of Chicago, 0-0. They lost one game to Battle Creek College 2­0, and won by default to Lake Forest College, who did not appear for its game. 
One year later and with one year's more experience, the team returned to the Jackson Park tournament on Nov. 9, 1935, and notched a victory against Northern IIllinois State Teachers College. They tied North Junior College 0-0, and lost to Northwestern University. 
Within the next five years, a basketball, equestrian, tennis, canoeing, volleyball, track and field, archery, golf, badminton and hiking teams were established. Within the next 50 years, the College would field eight teams for varsity competition and join the NCAA as a full-fledged member. 
But tell that to Pikosovits and Fuller now, and they'll humbly tell you they just did it to have fun. 
"I think this is a very novel idea," Fuller said. "It was important to me and the team." 
"I feel very humble," Pikosovits said. "l feel a lot of pride in it...I didn't want to pat myself on the back, but I thought it was a pretty good thing to happen." 
Contact Noreen Gillespie @ gil10843@saint­marys.edu. 

•
Photos courtesy of Saint Mary's Athletics 

. Belles athletics changes from single team to conference champion 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 
It's not a history that includes perfecting the forward pass or claiming countless national championships, but it is a history worth revisiting, a history full of growth and expansion. From the first team to take the field in 1934 to the first MIAA championship team last year, the Saint Mary's athletic department has grown \'.ith the times. 
In 1934, 12 women took the field as the first organized athletic team in Saint Mary's history and won one game. That was the beginning of a program that features seven varsity teams, a complete intramural schedule and a phys­ical fitness program today. 
"That was just such a fabulous statement and landmark for Saint Mary's," athletic director Lynn Kachmarik said. 
Following that first game in 1934, the department moved from an intramural program to an NAIA member up to NCAA status in 1990. 
By 1982, Saint Mary's had established a complete varsity program, sporting swimming and diving, softball, basket­ball, gymnastics and crew. The Belles established a solid rivalry with Notre Dame's varsity women's teams and had their share of competition across route 31. 
The Belles seemed to take control in volleyball, beating the Irish the first two years the women played varsity, but always seemed to fall short in basketball, keeping a series record of 0-10 against the Irish. 
"Although the rivalry is a fairly new one, the intensity is high," said Mary DiStanislao, former Notre Dame women's basketball coach . 
With the intensive program under way, the Belles need­ed a conference affiliation. Under the leadership of athletic director Erin Murhpy, Saint Mary's joined the NAIA in the first step toward establishing itself in the athletic world. 
Following its arrival in the NAIA, Saint Mary's had one of its best spring seasons in history. The softball team claimed the Indiana Division III Championship and 14 members of the track and field team qualified for nation­als. Eleven grabbed top six finishes. 
When Jo-Ann Nester took over in 1984, the NAIA wasn't enough. Over the next five years Nester looked into mem­bership and by 1989, the Belles had dual membership in the NCAA and NAIA. 
"As an NCAA Division III affiliate, we now have the opportunity to compete tn a non-scholarship division among schools with athletic and academic philosophies similar to ours," Nester said at the time. "This kind of peer scheduling clearly will allow our teams to be more compet­itive in post-season play at the district, regional and national level." 
For the next nine years the Belles would play in the NCAA without any conference affiliation and the basketball program hit its peak under the leadership of Marvin Wood. 
In the fall of 1999, Saint Mary's would take its final steps to becoming the program it is today. 
Beginning in 1997, the Belles had been playing with the Michigan Intercollegiate Athletic Assocation. Finally, in 1999, they took the final step and became full-fledged members of the MIAA. Acting athletic director Jini Cook took the Belles most of the way and then handed the pro­gram over to Kachmarik for completion. 
"Coaches recruiting for their sports can offer a stable conference, a stable schedule and a strong competition to incoming freshman athletes," Cook said after she brought Saint Mary's into the MIAA. 
Two years later, the Belles have one MIAA championship to their name and are looking for another one this week­end. 
Over 60 years after the first Saint Mary's women took the field, moving from intracollege competition to state level competition, Saint Mary's is still looking ahead. 
"Now I would like to see our teams compete at the NCAA Division III national level," Kachmarik said. 
' I 
,_ ' 
' 
I 
' 
'. 
. . . . 
~ 
. 
•1 
-l 
-


Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 
Inductees 
continued from page 24 
seasons. 
Meghan Rafferty Weldon grad­uated in 1988 with her name already embossed in Saint Mary's history. As a member of the Belles swimming and diving team she set three school records as an individual and qualified as part of three record­breaking relay teams for the national championship. Weldon held individual school records in the 100 and 200-yard back­stroke and the 50-yard freestyle. 
The 90's produced the largest part of the 2001 induction class.. After joining the NCAA in 1991, Saint Mary's had more to offer its student athletes. 
1991 graduate Nicole Hill Colucci still holds the record in the indoor 1-mile and 2-mile run and was the 10,000-meter District Champion. During her stay at Saint Mary's she was named Most Valuable Player on the track team and received the Coach's Leadership Award. 

Kelly Cook, a 1992 graduate, led the Saint Mary's soccer team during her tenure at the cam­pus. She was a three-time All­Region soccer player and was named to the NSCAA All­American team. 
Rounding out the class of 2001 are 1993 graduate Karen Lorton and 1994 gradate Dalsaso. Lorton holds six school records in volleyball and earned the NCAA All-Region player Award. Dalsaso, like Cook, was named to the NSCM All-American team in soccer and was a three time All-Region player. 

Activities this weekend are focused around intermingling alumni and current student ath­letes. Tonight at 7 p.m. there will be an alumni basketball game and inductees are encouraged to cheer on current Belles teams during Saturday's home soccer, volleyball and golf competitions. 
Alumni will also have the 
. ·•-­

opportunity to face off against future hall-of-famers in alumni/varsity tennis, softball and volleyball matches on Saturday afternoon. Alumnae ­soccer players can compete with current Belles soccer players on Saturday, and the swim team will host an alumnae meet at Holfs Aquatics Center Sunday morning. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 
----• ---•• • • • • • • • • • • • I 
-

Page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, September 28, 2001 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
. No. 4 Irish: We're finally playing up to our ability 
I ­
By JOELiCANORO 
Sports Writer 
After struggling in some of their early games due to injuries, the No. 4 Irish are finally healthy and ready to return to last year's form that carried them all the way to the NCAA Final Four. 
With a three game streak and a newfound confidence, the Irish hope to continue their momentum this week­end against Big East oppo­nents Pittsburgh and West Virginia. 
"For the first time all sea­son. all three separate units -offense, midfield and defense -we're on the same page," said senior fullback Lindsey Jones. "Tuesday was a great reminder that we are capable of playing well together. I think we have moved past some of the mis­takes that hurt us at the beginning of the season because we are communicat­ing with one another." 
While the Irish certainly showed they were capable of defeating any team in the country with their resounding victory over No. 3 Nebraska on Tuesday, the Irish have yet to be tested on the road this season. On Friday night, the Irish will leave the friendly confines of Alumni Field and travel to Pittsburgh. 
While the Pittsburgh Panthers are not regarded as one of the stronger teams in the Big East, Notre Dame knows full well that they can­not take anyone lightly. 
"I do not think playing on the road will be a problem for 
us because all of our upper­classmen have traveled and played on the road before," said Jones. "Playing on the road will be a new experience for the freshmen, but I think we are ready for the game Friday night." 
The Irish expect Pittsburgh to play a very defensive-ori­ented game to offset Notre Dame's superior athleticism and speed. The Panthers 
-

boast last year's Big East goalie of the year Rachel Brown. The Irish must rely on the passing abilities of their midfielders Randi Scheller and Mia Sarkesian to create quality scoring chances for forwards Arny Warner, Amanda Guertin, and Kelly Tulisiak. 
The Irish will have little time to recuperate from Friday's game against the Panthers as they must return to South Bend to host the West Virginia Mountaineers on Sunday at 1 p.m. at Alumni Field. Sunday's game for the Irish is critically important because the Mountaineers are currently tied with the frish for the Big East lead, 
Last year, the Irish squeaked out an overtime vic­tory at West Virginia so they know that West Virginia is eagerly awaiting their chance to avenge last year's loss. 
"This is a huge game for us for so many reasons," said Notre Dame head coach Randy Waldrum. "This game will go a long way in deter­mining who will the Big East Title. 
West Virginia has three all­Big East players in their start­ing lineup including projected Big East offensive player of the year Katie Barnes. West Virginia is an excellent team. 
"They already have some big wins this season including a big win over No. 19-ranked Auburn," said Waldrum. "I expect West Virginia to give us a real challenge so we must play our best to defeat them on Sunday." 
The lrish's record currently sits at six wins and one tie. If they play the way they did against Nebraska on Tuesday night, their record will most certainly be improved to eight wins and one tie at the end of this weekend while sitting atop the Big East with four wins and zero losses in con­ference play. 
Contact Joe Licandro at jlicandr@nd.edu 

IS HOLDING AN OPEN CALL AUDITION AT 
Holiday Inn 213 W. Washington St. South Bend, Indiana 46601 
SUNDAY SEPTEMBER 30TH 12 NOON 
TIM KACMAR/The Observer 

Sophomore forward Amy Warner dribbles around a Nebraska defender during Notre Dame's 1-0 win last Tuesday night. 


Auditions are on a first come first serve basis. 
We suggest that you arrive early. 
Friday, September 28, 2001 
The Observer . TODAY page 23 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
FOXTROT 
WHERE AS MANY AS SI t>RVNKEN INDIVIOVALS 
PACKED INTO A SINGLE 
!>ORM ROOM? 
TOM KEELEY 
THOSE MAD TO 8E THE LOUDEST. HOTTEST, AND • SWEATIEST EXPERIENCES 
OF OUR LIVES 
BILL AMEND 


FoR AS LONG AS 
l CAN REMEMBER, DAD'S AI.W-'YS BEEN 
CROSSWORID 
AND YET HE WENT oUT 
WOULD I BE THIS FioM A 
AND DONATED 8LooO 
Too 81<:, !CID WHO WEA~S THIS WEEK ANYWAY. 
A GEEK IF I BoBA FETT 
UNDERPANTS. 
J 
~ 
RYAN

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNINGHAM 
.. 
::.. 


ACROSS 1 Flash light? 7 Duchess of 
(Goya model) 11 Queen 14 Head cases? 15 Runs over 17 Peak 
performances? 18 Prime-time times 19 Notorious 
courtroom strategy of 1 979 21 Pilot's accessory 22 Pilot's problem 23 Effective leveler 25 Wright wing 26 Sandbank site 28 Kill, in a way 29 Cut corners? 31 Too 33 Nile crosser _ 


ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE G C L 1 R A 
33 Sparkling wine, familiarly 34 Indian refreshment 
35 Cry after a lucky strike? 
37 King of Greece, 1947-64 
40 Without expression 
42 Figure in some mysterious 15th-century tapestries 

HOROSCOPE 
:::ELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Brian De Palma, Amy Madigan, Moby, Harry Connick Jr., Lola Falana, Earl Holliman 
Happy Birthday: Drastic measures don't usually bring results, but this year you may have to be willing to push the envel?J?e. Be prepa_red, precise and nght to the pomt. The less you dawdle, the more ·you'll accomplish. Your numbers: 8, 13, 21, 34, 45, 47 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Break away from everyday rou­tine and do something a little bit different. Being involved in large organizations and lost in the crowd will allow you to observe and gain insight. 0000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
Being a good Samaritan will add to your popularity. You will be able to make positive changes to your working conditions by gain­ing the support of co-workers. 
000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You'll be like the Tasmanian devil today; so full of energx and ideas it will be difficult for the average person to keep. Don't be too quick to judge others who seem to be standing still. 000 

50 Take as a given CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
You are under observation. Don't
52 Rocky debris 
become involved with anyone
53 Make smooth, 
who may already be married. 
in a way 
Keep your feet on the ground and 
look for a stable partner or stay single for now. 000 
55 Schmaltz 
56 Dame Hess 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You 
57 Moon, e.g. 
can make a difference. Your job of helping others will become easy if your empathize. Your ability as a 
EUGENIA LAST 

Brown-nosing will lead to jeal­
ousy and to conflicts with col­
leagues, leaving you friendless 
and the talk of the office. Be pro­
ductive but don't flaunt your 
actions.00 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): It's 
time to back off and let the chips 
fall where they may. Do not pry 
into the affairs of others. Sudden 
changes are likely regarding your 
professional position. Don't take 
chances. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
Put your cash in the bank. Taking 
financial risks will lead to trouble. 
Problems will result if you have. 
put too much stress on yourself. 
Life can be enjoyable if you stick 
to basics. 000 
SAGITD\RIUS (NCN 22-Dec. 21): 
It won't be all about you today. If loved ones ask for your time, be prepared to give it. If you don't, you may not like the treatment you get in return. 00 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
Expect delays or problems with shipments, mail or equipment. Don't rely on colleagues. Stay put and work on projects that don't require a great deal of travel or communication. 00 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Feeling good about yourself is half the battle, as you've discov­. ered if you've been making some alterations to your appearance. You can expect to attract a lot of 
attention.00000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Avoid disputes by treating others with respect and being a little more accommodating. The old saying is true: Actions do speak louder than words. Be affection­ate and refrain from being critical or questioning. 000 
36 Break dancing accompaniment 
38 They may carry burdens 
39 Lays out 41 Bait 43 See 3-Down 44 It originally . 
included 51 states 46 Physics Nobelist Landau 49 A camel may be executed on it 50 With 61-Across, bigwig: Var. 
51 Like a gymnast 54 Best seat in the house? 57 Sloth 
58 Borneo creatures 

Puzzle by Elizabeth C. Gorski 


~-...;,+.;+;~ 20 PreoperativeL delivery of old 
A 1-....+.;.+...1 24 Playpen pile T i-=,,1.:..:4-.:..i 27 Spout rhetoric H 
28 It may be under 
a jacket D R __................. 29 Locks in a barn? D I -ee+,-,+-,-+-,-ACT 30Kindof 
A S ...... --....,__ I N E candidate: Abbr. Y E ........_._........ E D E W 32 Moving option 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
59 Firearm, after firing 60 More than look up to 61 See SO-Across 62 Banks on the runway 63 Not optional 
DOWN 
1 Swath producer 2 It may tum up some dirt 3 With 43-Across, Michelin product
4 Successively 
5 Chisels 6 Like the path of 
least resistance 7 Like some ports 8 Words 
accompanying a smack 9 Fusion cuisine? 10 Good 
(fixed)­11 Scream elici1ors 12 Rough 13 British cars 16 Artist Maya 
45 Unhappy audience member, maybe 46 Advanced 47 New citizen, perhaps 48 Up on, with "in" 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
spokesperson will be admired. 
are available by touch-tone phone: 
0000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl. 22):
1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 

Birthday Baby: You are sophisticated and loving. You're a mediator 
best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 

who will have the ability to make others smile and to bring harmony 
years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

and peace to any situation. (Need advice? Clteck out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
C, 2001 Universal Press Syndicate 

NOTRE DAME VOLLEYBALL00 0~ Beac~ Uolleyball Night Chili's Night Notre Dame vs. GeorgetownNotre Dame vs. Virgina Tech Sunday, Sept. 30 @ 2:00pmFriday., Sept. 28 @ 7:00pm f'RJ:.'£. X t)tre 'D,me e~fohi-lty c-o~k.hoe,kFQ££, )'o-yos t~ t're~t 2C><, t:Jnsr t<!> ~~t .20(") rms! f'l{£,£, i~1s te, tre~t ice> f:,o~l O!fltttlrl:lS to'fPlet' J{"l) rbe>tbflU. pLi';tm Like .Jo6 °M:(')Dti>Df) _...... LlmbQ ~tut ~i8"91ltut Win ~gift certificates, Adidas gear, and more!! Wln.dagift certificates, Adidas gear, and more!!  

Campus Sports OTHE Campus Sports
BSERVER · 

. ND Women's Soccer, p. 22 
. ND Volleyball, p. 18 
. 
ND Women's Golf, p. 20 . SMC Soccer, p. 18 

. 
ND Cross Country, p. 20 . SMC Volleyball, p. 17 

. 
SMC Golf, p. 19 . Hockey, p. 17


PORTS 
. lnterhall, p. 14-16
-
Friday, September 28, 2001 
forever 

ENG 
D·INTIME 
Saint Mary,s remembers the athletes and coaches who brought athletics from one field hockey team to a rising MIAA force with induction in the College,s new Athletic Hall of Fame. 
. 
Story by KatieMcVoy 

This weekend will be a Fame fell into disuse and it they're going to say to us to give alumna. The athletic department under his leadership and, follow­weekend of memories and wasn't until Kachmarik became us more appreciation and more recently named "The Mary Fran ing his death in 2000, the 
a weekend aimed at the athletic director in 1999 that the memories of Saint Mary's." Meekison Senior Athlete Service department dedicated a memori­
future. A wall in Angela Athletic idea to reopen the Hall of Fame The 1934 field hockey team Award" in her honor. al bench to him. His wife Marilou Facility that has long remained . came to light. competed in the first intercolle­"Her commitment to Saint will represent him on Saturday. empty will become a memorial "I've been researching," giate athletic event in Saint Mary's since she has left here [is "Marvin Wood, a coach who to the members of Saint Mary's Kachmarik said. "This is a nat­Mary's history. The team took obvious)." Kachmarik said. gave so much to Saint Mary's, athletics who came before and ural time to do this. We're trying part in the Jackson Park Play Nester, who served as the ath­was just part of history here," forever changed the face of to get back in touch with alum­Day Hockey tournament. letic.director for Saint Mary's Kachmarik said. "He just epito­Belles athletics. nae." "Some things just stood out from 1984-1993, contributed to mizes everything [we stand forl." 
On Saturday, the Saint Mary's Ten former members of the with the 1934 field hockey the progress of the Saint Mary's The last six members of the athletic department will re-insti­Saint Mary's athletic department team," Kachmarik said. "It was athletic program. In 1989 she class. of 2001 represent the tute the Athletic Hall of Fame will mark the inagural class. just a given -This is a team began taking steps to change height of varsity play at Saint and hold the first formal induc­Beginning with the 1934 field that went out and represented Saint Mary's from an NAlA team · Mary's. Debbie Laverie, a 1985 tion in department history. hockey team that competed as us back in 1934." to full NCAA Division III status. graduate, pioneered the Saint "It was something I wanted to the first represented Saint Mary Fran Shaff Meekison, a "There's a whole history of Mary's tennis program that has do the day I got here," athletic Mary's team and culminating 1940 graduate of Saint Mary's, sports before varsity athletics," recently risen to prominence. director Lynn Kachmarik said. "I with 1994 graduate Megan played an important part in Kachmarik said. Laverie was Saint Mary's first feel ... there are so many women Oalsaso, the men and women Saint Mary's athletic history Marvin Wood is in the minori­NAIA All-American tennis play­
[and men] who need to be recog­who will be inducted cover over before varsity athletics were a ty. However, being the only male er, was named to the All-District nized." 50 years of Saint Mary's athletic part of the department. She won member of the induction class is team and qualified for national 
The Hall of Fame, which was history. the Helen Holland Voll Trophy in not the only way he has distin­championships. After gradua­instituted in 1993 by athletic "Their stories, what they have 1938 for outstanding participa­guished himself. Wood served as tion, she turned to coaching and director Jo-Ann Nester, is cur­to say, is the best part of this tion in intramural athletics. She the head basketball coach at was named the District Ill Coach rently home to only four Saint induction ceremony," Kachmarik was a. key player on her class' Saint Mary's from 1984-1995. of the Year for three consecutive Mary's athletes. After the class said. "It's not what we're going basketball team while at Saint The Saint Mary's team played of 1994 was named, the Hall of to say about them, it's what Mary's and remains an involved some of its most successful years 
see INDUCTEES/page 21 


. Football at Texas A&M, Saturday, 2 p.m. 

OBSERVER 
. ND Women's Golf Invitational, Saturday -Sunday

SPORTS 
online dossifieds 
. SMC Golf Invitational, Today-SaturdayAT AGLANCE . SMC Volleyball vs. Alma, Saturday, 1 p.m. http://www.nd.edu/~observer 
' ' 
''

'' 

• 

Photo Illustration by PETER RICHARDSON and KATIE McKENNA 
., 
. 


page2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 28, 2001 
Holiday newest hope for Irish offense 
Oelfv-e,l"lirj,Tk!}#Rzza/ 
Voted MBEST DELIVERED PIZZA" -2000 Best of Michiana 
MAKE IT A MEAL

r------, r------, 
1 large, 1 Topping I Large, I Topping
I I I I 
Papa Predicts:
$8.99 OR Breadstlcks
I I I I
2 large, 2 Topping 2 Liter
I I I I
$13. 99 $1-2.99
L ______ .J L ______.J 
NOTRE DAME -21 
Manager's Special Family Special
r------, r------, TEXAS A&M -17 
1 Larg-e, 2 Topping and 4 I J.arge w/Works
1· I I I 
Cans of I Large, 2 Topping
I I I I
Coca-Cola Classic $11. 99 orI $10. 99 I I Extta Large $20. 99 I
L ______..J L ______ .J Notre Dame Saint Mary's 271-1177 271-7272
r------, r------, 
I 
Late Night Special I I Grand Papa I Monday-Thursday 11 am -1 am 9pm -close 1 Extra Large,
I I I I Fridav-all night · 
Large One Topping 2 Toppings (Only ND store -L1mtt11d Delivery 3am -11am}
I I I I
$7.99 

$10. 99 Saturday 11 am -3 am Sunday Noon -1 am 
L ______ .J L ______..J 
•The most popular # on campus" 


By JEFF BALTRUZAK Assiscam Spores Editor 
Desperate to avoid the first 0­3 start in school history, an 0-2 Notre Dame football team enters Saturday's game at undefeated Texas A&M the object of national scrutiny, piloted by first-time starter Carlyle Holiday. 
Holiday's ascent to the high­est pressure position in college football clearly illustrates a tPam in dire need of' offensive fireworks. The Irish have scored just 20 points in their first two games, struggling to maintain drives and facing third and long passing si Lua­ti ons that have frequently turnf>d into completions well short of the first down marker. 
"The reality is that we ·re not scoring enough points," said Irish head coach Bob Davie Tuesday. "Carlyle deserved that opportunity to see if he can generate points." 
Davie understands that Holiday can only do so much to pllt the hall in the end zone. 
"I think our team under­stands we need execution in all phases," Davie said. "We need­ed to improve in so many ways to win, it doesn't matter who was the quarterback." 
The Irish have shown only brief flashes of proper execu­tion, mostly on defense. 
The Irish front seven anchored by Grant Irons, Courtney Watson and Tony Weaver has been solid this sea­son, holding highly touted tail­back T.J. Duckett to just 71 yards while putting up a fierce pass rush during Notre Dame's loss to Michigan State. 
With seniors Jordan Black and Kurt Vollers providing effective run blocking and with Holiday under center, the Irish line will have an easier time keeping their young signal caller off his back. 
"With Carlyle back there, it makes pass blocking a lot easi­er," said Black. "We'll run a lot of options just becausC'­Carlyle's an option kind of guy." 
Whik pass blocking might be easier in College Station, hear­ing Holiday's signals and snap counts amid a notoriously loud and hostile crowd at Kyle Field will complicate the line's job considerably. On passing plays", Black said hC'-will hold hands with guard Scan Mahan and wait for Mahan to tug his hand after tho s11ap. 
"It makes me a step slower," Black said. 
For many Irish players, the A&M game is more than the third game of what has turned into a tough season, it is a return home. Besides Holiday, who hails from San Antonio, Texas, 13 other players on the Notre Dame roster are from Texas, a top recruiting area for Irish coaches. 
"Just the fact that it's in Texas is huge." said senior inside linebacker Tyreo Harrison, a native of Sulphur Springs, Texas. "This date has been marked for a long time." 
It's been on the Aggies' cal­endar a while as well. Texas A&M has yet to play a ranked opponent, with wins over light­ly-regarded, non-conference 


PETER RICHAROSONfThe Observer 

Senior Irish flanker David Givens tries to shake lose a Texas A&M defender during Notre Dame's 
24-10 win last year at Notre Dame Stadium. 
opponents McNeese St. and think we are capable of beating "We are backed in a corner," Wyoming; with another Big-12 anyone in the Big-12," said said Davie. 'Tm going to stop victory over Oklahoma State. Slocum in a press conference and say I can be darned proud 
Aggie head coach ILC. Tuesday. "We have never of what we've accomplished Slocum, Davie's former relaxed since Sunday." and I'm looking forward to employer, sees playing the Irish Neither have the Irish. The this." at home as a watershed game, prospect of getting back on a win that could catapult A&M track against a team he was to more national attention. once so personally involved in Contact Jeff Baltruzak at jbal­
trul@nd.edu.

"If we can beat this team, I has Davie excited for Saturday. 
Friday, September 28, 2001 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Facing the pressure at home 
Sophomore quarterback 
will make his first start in 
his home state 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Sports Editor 
Carlyle Holiday walks into the interview room for his first tele­conference as Notre Dame's start­ing quarterback. When he gets there, he finds a surprise. 
Sitting with the rest of his pads and _jersey -waiting for him to wear during a photo shoot -is what appears to be a large white ball. Upon closer inspection, Holiday finds that it L5 his helmet -with about seven !avers of ath­letic tape completely covering it. 
"That's just our offensive line," Holiday said. "Whnn they are get­ting treatment, playing around with us, just because we are littler than they are." 
Looking like your average Notre Dame sophomore, he answers questions, he remains modest, and listens patiently, considers every question and provides a thoughtful answer. 
But the world for this quiet, col­lected 19-year-old changed with one phone call Monday morning. 
Called Into Action 
Back in his room in Carroll Hall, the telephone rang. The Notre Dame coaching staff wanted to meet with Holiday before practice. 
So after class, Holiday walked over to the locker room at Notre Dame Stadium and sat down to listen to the coaches. The message was short, but it had a meaning of astronomic proportions. 
Holiday would take over for Matt Lovecchio as Notre Dame's starting quarterback Saturday afternoon against Texas A&M. Holiday, who lives in San Antonio, Texas, reacted calmlv to the news that he would make·his first start in his home state. 
"He was very matter-of-fact," Irish offensive coordinator Kevin Rogers said of Holiday's reaction. "He's a Texas guy, so I think he's very excited about it." 
On the practice field, the repeti­tions weren't all that different than they had been with Lovecchio as the starter. Both quarterbacks are quiet by nature and they had been sharing snaps at practice all season. But Monday, something was different. 
"We are just practicing like we have been normally," Holiday said. "It's just me with the first team and him with the second team." 
While the quarterback generally serves as the commander in the huddle, veterans on the team such as Tony Fisher and Jeff Faine have provided a sense of calm while the quarterback focused on running the o.lfense. 
"fle's a guy that really has taken charge or the huddle for !he firsl. time as thA No. I guy," Rogers said. "It's a role that he really has to take charge ofand get used to." 
Rut Holiday's quiet, businE'sslike demeanor hasn't hampered his ability to lAad the Irish chargA downfield. With speakers blasting into practice th.is week to stimu­late the loud fans the Irish will face al. Kyle Field., Holiday has let himself be heard. 
"Carlyle, I feel is a pretty quiet guy, but he speaks up pretty loud out thcfre," offensive guard Kurt Vollers-said. "You always know what's going on." 
up close & personal 
WITH CARLYLE HOLIDAY 

Carlyle Holiday 

birthdate: Oct. 4, 1981 hometown: San Antonio, TX major: business favorite food: Mexican aword to describe me on the field: competitive aword to describe me off the field: relaxed tt1e best advice I've ever received: 
"Move on when something doesn't go right and do better next time. Iwish I could switch places for a day with: my dad 
With less than two full quarters of play behind him -none before this month -the unknown factor is how Holiday can play a full game under pressure. 
"It's how you respond to the bumps in the road and how you respond to the mistakes more than how it is when things are going smooth," head coach Bob Davie said. "That'll be the mark of whether he's a successful quarter­back or not." 
Facing the pressure 
As the Irish coaches and players walked into the Stadium after practice Monday night, nearly every reporter crowded around Davie. With his first response, Davie answered their question: "We're going to go with Carlyle Holiday this weekend." 
Everything changed. Soon a mob had formed around Holiday, just returning from his first prac­tice as the starter. Reporters pushed tape recorders in his face. They battled for the right to ask the next question. 
lloliday stood patiently, helmet in his hand, and looked each reporter in the eye as the ques­tions kept on coming. Reserved by nature, Holiday never cut his answers short. The reporters ­some rrom as far away as San Antonio -left with all of their questions answered. 
The next day, the same crowd., this time including a few more reporters who missed Monday's show, gathered around once again. 
On Wndnesday, Holiday had to !it in the teleconference, posing for photographs in Washington llall and practice. He also attend­ed his full load of sophomore· classes in the business school. But somehow, Holiday has kept his focus. 

"I don't really let anything dis­tract me," Holiday said during the teleconference, his voice remain­ing calm and collected. ''I've just been going to practice with the same mindset I have been since the season started. There's been a lot more questions asked or what­ever, but I just, you know, sort of try to stay focused in football." 
But the fan attention can cause some problems. Notre Dame stu­dent e-mail addresses are avail­able to anybody via the school's Web site, and Holiday has received his fair share ofsupport. 
"I probably have [received quite a bit of e-mail from fans!, but I don't check them anvmore," he said. "It's getting a littie bit out of control." 
As Holiday ref'lel'ts on thA answers, he exhibits not one bit of the arrogance or cockiness associ­ated with many athletes of his cal­iber. He treats every reporter and every question as fairly and hon­estly as he can. 
"He is a special guy," Rogers said. "You're talking about one of the nicest people you 1wer wanted to meet. There's not a big shot bone in his body. I think he's gen­uinely a decent human bfiing." 
Coming home 
The attention and pressure is nothing new to Holiday. lie played high school ball in Texas for Roosevelt High in San Antonio. High school football is to Texas what religion is to a priest. Quite simply, it's life. 

"It's pretty big," Holiday said. "It's almost like a college atmos­phere. It's serious." 
On Fr_iday afternoons, school would let out early. The gymnasi­ums would fill to the rafters as cheerleaders and students and families cheered the team on at the pep rallies. 
But the atmosphere has its neg­ative side as well. 
"If coaches don't win down there in football, they get fired," Holiday said. 
And Homecoming game was the biggest of all. Fifteen thousand fans would fill the stadium. Players and their dates spent more time getting ready for the homecoming dan<'e than they did for Prom. Girls walked around with bouquets of flowers that cov­ered their arms. 
"Homecoming was real big. It's serious," Holiday said. "PP.ople walk arow1d with 20 [flowers] on their arm. It's just big." 
Playing in that atmosphere has helped Holiday adjust to starting on one of college football's most glorified roles as well as adjusting to large venues. 
"There are big crowds at the games down there," Holiday said. "It helped out a little bit, it's not the exact same amount as the col­lege game, but it's as big as it gets in high school." · 
On Saturday, Holiday has his own personal homecoming. He's already left tickets for 15 friends and relatives who plan on making the trip up to College Station from San Antonio, and has fielded request<; from many more. 
Kyle Field isn't wholly unfamil­iar to Holiday, who attended games there his junior and senior years of high school when he was recruited by Texas A&M. He is ready to for the loudest game he's ever played, but says the team is ready as well. 
"It's not really a factor, unless we make it a factor." Holiday said. "We've worked on it." 
Holiday also looks forward to seeing his parents, who called him with congrutulatiuns Tuesday night. 
"They're excited, they just want me to go out and· win," Holiday said. 
Winning on the field is why he l"'.arne to Notre Oamc. While he may be quiet, Holiday looks reporters and coaches in the Aye and says he came to Notre Dame to win. 
Saturday he gets his chance. Right back in Texas, where he started. 
Contact Noah Amstadter at namstadt@nd.edu. 
, . 

page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 28, 2001 
Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish Record: 0-2 

Head 
AP: Unranked 

Coaches: Unranked 

Davie head coach 

Bob Davie fifth season al Notre Dame career record: 
30-21 

at Notre Dame: 
30-21 

against Texas A&M: 1-0 

NOTRE DAME 2001 Schedule 
Sept. 8 at Nebraska -L Sept. 22 Michigan St. -L 
Sept. 29  at Texas A&M  
Oct. 6  Pittsburgh  
Oct. 13  W.Virginia  
Oct. 20  ., ·"r '\!:Jfusc  
Oct. 2.1  atBC  
Nov. 3  Tennessee  
Nov. 17  Novy  
Nov. 24  at Stanford  
Dec. 1  at Purdue  


No. l 2 
2 
4 
5 
6 
' 
7 
8 
8 
q 
10 10 
12 
13 
H 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 
22 23 
24 25 26 28 30 31 32 33 34 35 35 
36 
37 38 
38 
39 40 41 42 
44 
45 46 47 
48 
49 
50 
51 52 52 
53 55 
56 56 57 
59 
60 61 62 63 64 
65 66 
67 
69 70 
72 73 
75 76 77 78 79 80 80 81 82 82 83 84 85 86 
87 
88 
89 
90 91 92 94 95 98 99 
Roster 

Name Pos. Ht. Wt. YR Jared Clark QB 6-4 230 so Carlos Piene--Antoine ILB 6-3 241 SR 
Dan Novakov Amaz Battle Justin Smith Ron Israel D;,ivid Givens Carlyle Holiday Lnren20 Crawford MattKnJeger Jason B<'ckstrom Mt1tt loVC'cc:hio Ryan Krueger Tony Fisher Nick Sella Gary Godsey Clifford Jefferson Abram Elam Joey Hildbold Ronnie Rodamer Glenn Earl Gerome Sapp Javin Hunter Julius Jones ChrisYura Chad DeBolt Ryan Grant Garron Bible Donald Dykes Rockv Boiman Dwa}'ne Francis Terrance Hov-.'ard Courtnt:y Watso.n Vontez Duff David Miller Tim O'Neill Torn Lopienski DwightEllick Preston Jackson Eric Nelson Brandon Hoyte Jason Murray Mike Goolsby Shane ½'alton Grant Irons MattSarb Corey Mays MikeMcNair Justin Tuck Derek Curry Cedric Hilliard Tyreo Harrison Jeff Faine Mark MitcheU Jason Halvorson Zachary Giles John Crowther Pat Ryan Justin Thomas Brian Dierckman Darrell Campbell Jesse Desplinter Casey Robin Brennan Curtin Jeffrey Campbell Sean Milligan JWJordan Ryan Gillis Darin Mitchell Jim Molinaro Ryan Scarola Mark LeVoir Kurt Vallers John Teasdale Greg Pauly Jordan Black Sean Mahan Adam Tibble· Omar Jenkins Jerome Collins Bernard Akatu Matt Shelton Josh Gentine John Owens Billy Palmer Brendan Hart Jonathan Smith Carlos Campbell MdttRoot Brian &idatsch 
Jeff TI10mpson Kyle Budinscuk Andy Wisne Ryan Roberts Anth.ony Weaver Jason Sapp 

QB  6-1  215  lR  
FL  6-1  210  SR  
FS  5-11  ·197  SR  
ss  6-1  212  SR  
FL  6-3  212  SR  
QB  6-3  2JR  so  
FL  5-10  190  so  
1:-1.  'i-10  175  so  
CB  5-10  186  TR  
Qll  6-4  205  so  
QB  5-9  186  SR  
TB  6-2  226  SR  
K/P  5-11  175  JR  
TE  6-6  270  JR  
CB  5-9  176  SR  
ss  6.{J  210  so  
p  5-10  188  JR  
SE  6-4  ·  2IO  so  
FS  6-1  ·210  JR  
ss  6-0  214  JR  
SE  6-0  191  SR  
TB  5-10  210  JR  
TB  6-()  225  JR  
!LB  6-()  202  SR  
RB  6-1  198  FR  
CB  5-10  191  so  
FS  5-11  195  SR  
OLB  6-4  240  SR  
FS  6-()  198  SR  
TB  6-1  195  SR  
!LB  6-1  232  JR  
CB  5-11  192  so  
K  5-11  208  SR  
TB  5-5  175  SR  
FB  6-1  249  SR  
CB  5-11  170  FR  
CB  5-9  176  so  
FB  6-0  225  SR  
!LB  6-0  219  FR  
FB  6-1  260  SR  
LB  6-3  240  so  
CB  5-11  186  SR  
DE  6-5  276  SR  
ss  5-11  200  SR  
!LB  6-1  234  FR  
FB  6-0  237  SR  
OLB  6-5  215  FR  
ILB  6-3  228  so  
NG  6-2  290  JR  
!LB  6-2  242  SR  
C  6-3  296  JR  
OLB  5-10  200  SR  
DL  6-2  240  JR  
Ol  6-4  285  FR  
C  6-2  242  SR  
!LB  6-3  231  JR  
OLB  6-1  245  JR  
ILB  6-1  2.50  SR  
DT  6-4  2%  JR  
Lil  6-1  177  so  
0G  6-7  300  SR  
OT  6-8  305  JR  
DE  6-1  230  SR  
0G  6-4  295  JR  
C  6-1  275  SR  
0G  6-3  296  JR  
OL  6-4  285  FR  
OT  6-6  295  JR  
0G  6-5  308  SR  
TE  6-7  310  FR  
OT  6-7  312  SR  
OT  6-5  305  SR  
DT  6-6  208  so  
OT  6-6  318  SR  
OT  6-3  292  SR  
K  5-11  186  SR  
WR  6-2  180  FR  
OLB  6-4  242  50  
SE  5-10  190  SR  
WR  6-1  170  FR  
K/P  5-11  205  JR  
TE  6-3  260  SR  
TE  6-3  265  so  
TE  6-2  255  so  
WR  6-4  195  so  
WR  6-1  190  FR  
TE  6-6  225  FR  
DL  6-4  265  fR  
DL  6-5  265  FR  
DE  6-4  265  so  
DT  6-3  285  SR  
DE  6-2  262  SR  
DE  6-3  286  SR  
DE  6-3  250  so  

I.LI 
~ 
<r: 
Q 
I.LI 
a: 
l­
o 
z 
:E 
ca 
<C 
C/) 
~ 
I.LI 
t­
~ 
C/) 
~ 
<r: 
z 
< 
COACHING 
Davie's never been on a seat as hot as the one he's on now. lle'll need to win to get the critics off his back. No Notre Dame coach has started ofT 0-3 -ever. 

QUARTERBACKS 
Holiday is the clear starter here. Irish coach­es have decided to shake up the offense and give the sophomore his first start. The coaches have also made clear that he will see most of the action -it's unlikely that LoVecchio "'ill see signifi­cant playing time. 
IRISH RUSHING 
Fisher has emerged as the top Irish runner, but Jones will probably see significant carries dur­ing Saturday's game. The olTensivc line did a much bfltter job opnning up holes last week. 
IRISH PASSING 
Injuries to Givens and Battle have hurt the Irish passing game severely. While Hunter has established himself as a legitamate threat and Jenkins looked solid in his first appearance last week, the Irish have been relucatant to throw the long ball this year. 

::::::::::::::::::::::::: :::::::::::::::::::::::::: ::::::::::::::::::::::::: :::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
Slocumb is synonymous with Texas A&M foot­bal I. He is virtually unbeatable at home. Slocumb was responsi­ble for giving Davie his first major coaching position. 

Farris is very similar to last year's Heisman Trophy winner Chris Weikne. Both played minor league baseball before joining college football programs. And he's a prolific passer, throwing for 341 yards against Wyoming. 
A weak defensive front characterizns the Aggie defense. Both defensive ends arc recovering from injuries sustained last year, but Warren is a powerful nose guard. The Aggie line­backer corps is also fairly solid. Davie coached the first generation of the Aggie famp,d "Wrecking Crew." 
:::::::::::::::::::::::::: :::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~:::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
While Slocumb and 
I 
team he ca · on the game, Davie's focusing on saving his job. 


Holiday is simply untest­ed. ' ly six 
come iticism and he has looked hesi­tant. 

When Notre Dame decides to run4heJball,
-,.__ ·". :-·f,.-:""i-','P./;

they.•. usually µgJt,:well. Witl:rH<tlidijy• ~i"m)arttr­back, the·trisrut~iU;:be much, tnQre l':U~ enttd 
aud i wilt l'e ,., },l,h e optl6 · '·q ·ack draw,, ll. T ggies will have a tough time stopping the Irish run. 
Texas A&M has a strong, potent pass rush that could pose problems for the Notre Dame offensive line. They recorded eight sacks last week, and their secondary is very experienced. Davis already has three intercep­tions and Weston has start­ed 14 straight games at cor­nerback. 

Aggie , y has a good chance of picking the ha II off. 



Arter two quarters of sputtering offense, the The Aggie dcfonsc, knowing the Irish rnwcr throw Irish will score three second-half touch­down the field, will focus on the stopping the run. downs to pull away. Holiday's homecoming While lloliday will provide a spark, he can't do it
Irish 

will be solid, but uot spectacular. Game halls all. While Notrn Dame's special teams play will for Fisher, Watson and a surprising Tyreo keep the game close and the defense will control Harrison. the Aggies' sprnad olfonse, the lack of offense will 
kill the Irish -again.
experts 

FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 28 Texas A&M 7 FINAL SCORE: Texas A&M 17 Noah Amstadter Andrew Soukup 
Notre Dame 13 sports editor associate sports editor 
' ' .. 

Friday, September 28,2001 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 5 
~ 


Texas A&M 
Aggies 
Record: 3-0

oHead 
AP: Unranked Coaches: Unranked 
~ ...,,~,

R.C. Slocumb 
13th season at 'i :: "•!(1_ TexasA&M 
TEXAS A&M 
•.

2001 Schedule 
career record: .· 
' . 

112-37-2
Sept. l McNeese State -W 
·. ·:. -. --~ ' II 

at Texas A&M: Sept. 6 at Wyoming -W 
112-37-2 
Slocumb

against Notre Sept. 22 Oklahoma State -W 
head coach

Dame: 0-3 
Roster 

No. Name Pos. Ht. WI. YR l Derek Farmer LB 6-3 231 rR 2 Christian Rodriguez LB 6-2 225 SR 3 Terrance Thoma:, WR 5-11 185 FR 4 Dwain Goynes WR 5-10 179 JR 5 VMarToombs FB 6-0 275 SR 6 liobert Ferguson WR 6-2 220 SR 7 John Roberson WR 5-10 175 FR 8 Vance Smith QB 6-4 226 JR 9 Bethel Johnson WR 5-11 188 SR 10 Mark Farris QB 6-2 206 JR 
11 . Colby Frc-cman QB 6-2 214 JR 13 Jason Carter QB 6-0 190 FR 14 Dawon Gentry DB 5-11 189 so 15 Adam Bla.:k DB 5·10 173 so 16 Derek Lechler [' 6-0 223 JR 17 Brian Gamble LB 6-2 223 JR 18 Dustin Long QB 6-3 185 so 19 Roddy Alexander WR 5-8 161 JR 19 Eric Stanford DB 6-2 195 JR 20 Cody Scates f'· 6-0 180 so 21 Jay Brooks DB 5-9 183 SR 22 Sammy Davis DB 6-0 180 JR 23 Ronald Jones DB 5-11 175 FR 24 Richard Whitaker RB 5-10 197 JR 25 Chris Sims K 6-0 163 so 26 Jonte Buhl DB 5-9 163 so 27 Jesse Hunnicutt LB 6-2 237 JR 28 Joe Weber RB 6-0 228 JR 29 Maurice Harris RB 5-8 185 JR 30 Wes Bautovich DB 6-2 210 SR
AGGIE RUSHING AGGIE PASSING SPECIAL TEAMS INTANGIBLES 
30 Keelan Jackson DB 6-1 209 so 
-~ 

31 Sean Weston DB 5-9 170 JR 
32 Oschlor Flemming RB 5-10 204 JR 
33 Damien West LB 6-2 237 JR 
34 Keith Joseph RB 6-2 221 so 
35 Mike Pinesette DB 5-11 193 SR
Before the season, peo­
36 Amon Simon RB 6·1 224 SR
This is the bright spot of

The defensive line ple thought the Irish 
37 Jerome Weber DB 5.11 166 so
the Notre Dame football Right now, the Irish are 

z 

38 Stacy Jones RB 5-11 229 JR
looked a 100 percent secondary would hurt 
team. Hildbold has been 

playing for pride. 
0 

39 Eric Crutchfield DB 6-0 180 so
better last week, holding 
the defense. Turns out 
-4 

39 Jack Milligan RB 6-0 203 JR
outstanding punting the 

They've been just the
Duckett to just 71 yards. 
they were right. Against 
:::a 

40 Kevin Mangum DB 5-10 176 so
ball -he's averaging 

fourth Irish team since 
ITI 

41 Harold Robertson LB 6-2 205 JR
Watson and Harrison 
Michigan State, Notre 
around 50 yards a punt. 

1900 to start off 0-2, 
42 Everett Smith DB 6-2 205 JR
have also proven that 
Dame's cornerbacks 
C 

43 Jarrod Penright LB 6-3 233 JR
Last week, Jones showed 

and you can bet they
they are capable of pro­
couldn't stay with 
l> 

44 Greg Porter WR 6-4 228 JR
he's still capable of 

don't want to be the first 
45 Jared Morris LB 6-3 237 JR
viding both run support 
receivers, missed key 
s
breaking big returns to 

team to start off 0-3. 
47 LeBrandon Shepard LB 6-1 219 so
ITI

and a pass rush. 
interceptions, and made 
48 Terrance Kiel DB 5-11 196 JR
give the offense a boost.

costly tackling errors. 
49 Timm Gergeni P/K 5.9 159 JR 50 John Kirk OL 6-4 282 JR 51 Taylor Whitley OL 6-4 305 JR 52 Brendan Patrick OL 6-3 260 so 
:::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
The Aggie running backs 
53 Toron Wooldridge LB 6-0 220 JR
Special teams is defmetly Kyle Field says it all. The

Here's the core of the 
54 James Milkavich OL 6-2 270 JR
have been hampered by not an Aggie strong point. 
Aggies are 66-7 -1 at homeTexas A&M offense. The 
55 Timothy Joseph LB 6-2 267 so
-I

injuries. Joseph only car­Scates handles both the since Slocumb took over, 
56 Brandon Johnson LB 6-2 230 FR
ITI

Aggies love to spread theried the ball eight times Aggie punting and kicking 
57 Jouhn Boutte LB 6-2 215 FR
and for good reasons. 
><

field and pass the ball, 
58 Ricky Cardoza LB 6-4 223 FR
against Oklahoma State duties. He's made 13 tack­
l>

Texas A&M have some of 
59 Brian Thompson LB 6-0 213 FR
and Farris is a classic 
UJ

and Flemming only had les -not exactly the stat the best fans in the nation, 
60 Johnny JoUy DL 6-3 260 FR
drop-back passer. Taylor,
71 yards last week. 
61 Robert Bailey DL 6-4 298 so -...­
a special teams coach 

and Davie believes the 
l>

Texas A&M's go-to 
62 Thomas Carriger DL 6-4 260 FR
Farris isn't a running 
wants to see. Scates has noise in College Station will 

Qc, 

63 Chance Pearce D5 6-2 230 JR
receiver, transferred
threat, either. Like the 
only gone 1-5 on field be greater than what the 

65 Andre Brooks OL 6-4 298 JR
from Notre Dame last 
s

Irish, Texas A&M doesn't 
66 Geoff Hangartner OL 6-5 272 so
goals this year. Their Irish faltered under in 

year. 

67 Wes Dennard OL 6-4 225 JR
use their fullback much. 
return game is modest. 
Nebraska. 

68 Britt Lively OL 6-4 299 JR 69 Don Muhlbach D5 6-4 267 JR 70 Moses Vakalahi OL 6-5 300 so 71 Quentin Holman OL 6-2 310 FR
Any team whose 
72 BiUy Yates OL 6-1 280 JR
Home field 
73 Alan Reuber OL 6-6 280 JR 75 Chris Montgomery OL 6-8 317 JR 
TexasA&M doesJJJ use 
the run niuc · when 
l> 
76 Michael Mahan OL 6-6 293 JR
they do, . "lf:}ry 
77 Seth McKinney OL 6-3 290 SR
z 

78 Kasey Cheshier OL 6-4 279 so
effe<:tfve 
l> 

79 MattEnzler TE 6-2 234 SR
Campli;~J 
80 Ellison Collins WR 6-3 206 JR
!:c

w~~Y · · 
e 
81 Joey Perot TE 6-5 'L'i7 so
UJ 

82 Jemaar Taylor WR 6-1 203 so
u,

will , 
83 Mickey Jones WR 5.9 178 SR
t cover 

84 Tahumbrae Brown TE 6-3 255 JR
Dame could be
receivers when they 
85 Lonnie Madison TE 6-3 236 SR
trouble. 

86 Fred Spiller TE 6-3 252 JR 
87 Michael de la Torre TE 6-5 244 JR 
88 Linnis Smith DL 6-4 250 so 
89 Lawrence Hooper DL 6-2 260 FR 
91 Marcus Jasmin DL 6-4 323 so 
93 Evan PP.rroni DL 6-5 265 SR 
94 Ty Warren DL 6-4 294 JR 
95 Rocky Bernard DL 6-3 289 SR 
% Donny Stringer DL 6"6 240 FR 
99 David Ros DL 6-3 265 FR 
take off down the field. 


lowastate 
atTexas Tech atOklahoma Texas 




Davie will hold a prominent spot in Notre Two games. Two losses. Twenty points. That doesn't Dame history -but for something he will be sound like a formula for success. The Irish need point proud uf. He will be known as the only coach to production and they need it fast. Holiday doesn't have start a season 0-3. Mixing an untested quarter­big shoes lo fill but he has a huge task ahead of him. back with a loud and crazy stadium is a recipe Once again, leaVfl it to the defense to carry the burden for disaster. The Irish defense wifl remain of keeping the Irish in the game. tough, however, and keep the score close. 
FINAL SCORE: Texas A&M 14 FINAL SCORE: Texas A&M 24
Kerry Smith

Notre Dame 3 Notre Dame 10 assistant managing editor 
. ' 

page 6 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 28, 2001 
Holiday gets first taste ofmedia frenzy 
I don't envy Carlyle Holiday. 
Not one bit. 
Nor, for that matter, do I envy Malt LoVecchio, Gary Godsey, Arnaz Batlle, Jarious .Jackson, 
R o n Powlus and the legions of N o tr e Dam e quarter­b a c k s who came 



b e f O r e Andrew Soukup
them. asked Bob Davie was if ho had tory o-mails from die-hard And if Holiday screws up, he's "I made picked a starting quarterback. Irish fans when he picked going to get asked about it. Yes, we're going to go with Notre Uame over Nebraska Just ask Lovecchio. After
this joke Associate 
before • Carlyle, Davie said. and Texas A&M a few years every game, he talks to tape a b O u t Sports Editor A few more questions came ago. rccordflrs. boom microphones whether Davie's way~ questions about "I understood the world I and television cameras, you're the Kyle Field and offensive com­was corning to when I came answering questions about head coach or whether vou're munication. herl!," he said. missed plays, missed field goals the quarterback," Roh ·navie Then, someone noliccd But did he reallv? A few e­and missed opportunities two said flarlicr this season. "Notre Holiday walking through the mails from some subway alum­or throe timos. And when tho Dame fans love to discuss that gates, and the crowd around ni is om1 thing. Being asked peopln holding thosn rocording issue of who is going to replace Davie evaporated. thrnti times in the same intnr­devices are finished with him, you and how quick." Instantly. view if you have ever playPd in they walk away wondering 
And it's not just fans. From Before he knew il, Notre Kyle Field for a high school all­why he didn't say very much. TV personalities to newspaper Dame's newest starting quar­star ganrn is another. Sure, he In lact. thfl only person who columnists to sportswriters. terback felt a tug on his arm by saw LoVocchio last year answers more questions than everyone is always looking at one reporter asking for a answering questions about the Notrn Damn quarterback is the new Notre Dame quarter­minute of his time so he could everything imaginable last the Notre Dame head footbaU back, wondering if he's good answer a few questions. year. But when people are ask­coad1. enough to measure up to the Holiday finally walked away ing about your jock size, it's And that's too bad. Because great Notre Dame quarter­from the crowd of 20 or so another thing entirely. all I loliday and LoVecchio want backs of the past. reporters about 20 minutes "I don't even check Imy e­to do is play football. 
Too often, he's not. later. He might have even been mai(J anymore," Holiday said. But thny can't. 
And it's not because he's not sunburned from the multitude "It's getting out ofcontrol." Welcome to the position of talented. It's not because he of TV camera lights pointed at You can try to guess at what Notre Dame quarterback. lacks poise or confidence. It's him. it will be like. You can think Enjoy your stay. because they spend so much "There must be a new sheriff you can handle it. And it's nice Andrew Soukup can be time worrying about how to in town," said Davie, who was to receive the attention at first. reached al Soukup.2@nd.edu. explain their mistakes to standing a few feet away. But when it's the same ques­The views of this column are reporters rather than focusing Then, more somberly, he tions. day in and day out, you those of the author and are not on next week's opponent. added, "That's what it was like can't help but gnt frustrated. necessarily those of The 
Every time a new Notre with Matt last year." "lt'·s been a lot this week," Obserrwr. 
... 

Dame starting quarterback is named, the throng of media reporters descend upon the poor hapless soul asking ques­tions like. "Are you surprised?" "Did you see this coming?'' "Are you nervous?" "How are you going to handle the pres­sure'?" and "Do yon rcmembf'ir competing against Joe Smith, Texas A&M's third string wa.tP.r boy, in second grade piano recitals?" 
Monday afternoon, it was no different for Holiday. The first question a reporter 
And that's how it was with Gary Godsey before Lovecchio, and Battle before Godsey. Everyone wants to lrnow about the quarterback. 
And. when th.ings go wrong, everyone begins to point fin­gers al the quarterback. 
"The quarterback gets too much blame and too much credit," offensive coordinator Kevin Rogers said. 
It's hard to anticipate what the pressure is like when you first sign with the Irish. Holiday recciv11d a series of congratula­Holiday said. "People are going to ask their questions ... When football is going on, I just think about football at that time and I just try to get away from all the questions and all that stuff." 

Holiday can try all he wants. He'll never get away. 
People will still follow Holiday around after games, asking questions about every single aspect of the game. If the defonse doesn't play well, he's going Lo get asked about it If a wide receiver has a good game, he's going to get asked about it:. 
game hype 
Bob Davie Irish head coach 
'The team i.o:; going to be con.fident regardless of what quarterback is in there. ,, 

Tyreo Harrison Irish linebacker 
"We have never relaxed since Sunday ,, 
"/ didn't know we were 0-3 yet.,, 

Tony Asher Irish tailback 
''1his date has been circled.for a long time. ,, 


AROUND THE NATI ON 7-: 
Friday, September 28, 2001 A LOOK AT THIS WEEKEND'S COLLEGE FOOTBALL ACTION page 7 
GAME OF THE WEEK 

4, 
.s·· · rexasf 
6 . Otat1ariX: 7 Tennes~.e · 
8 ·· 11lrginla'Tei.1i 9 Gerotla Tech 10 ftl!ilrttl Sl~e 11 · Kansas State 12 UCLA 13 Wastfin!)lon 14 · LSU 16 South Carolina 16 Nortltwestarn 
17 Miclltgan 18 Florida Slate 
19 · Oregon State 20 RYU . 
21 M(S$is3fpp! Stahl 
22 _m.1no!s ..· 23 .. MlchiOaiLState 24 Ptlrnoo 
·25 Tol~du · 
ES 

~-.,••}~ti;:si:~:i;s;:?r~:· 
'° 4'-lf "' " . ·' «ti1D2"' ,,,.
··2~_-rr' . "\,.,...;. .. 
.g,. , 1-:t-UOU-­
. 3;3 '. <1.oaa 
2~11' . ·•1.0~ 
?,;o· B5t. ­
• 3-1)-: . '8114 2'11 -~.r1: 
. !,1 f"1 ;•·: •:: .•.,,,. 

JAMIE SQUIRE/Allsport Wildcats' quarterback Zak Kustok hands off to Damien Anderson during Northwestern's victory over Illinois last season. Northwestern's game against Michigan State is the first home opener since Rashidi Wheeler's death. 
WIidcats readyfor emotionalhome opener 
By GREG LADKY 
Sports Writer 
Saturday's game between No. 23 Michigan State and No. 16 Northwestern will be the Wildcats' first home game since the death of safety Rashidi Wheeler. Wheeler collapsed and died shortly after a summer condition­ing drill Aug. 3, just days after Minnesota Vikings star Korey Stringer died of a heat stroke during prac­tice. 
Both deaths shocked the football world. Northwestern will pay tribute to Wheeler before the game with a moment of silence, along with a ceremony for the victims of the terrorist attacks Sept. 11. 

The Wildcats look to improve to 3-0 for the first time since 1962. Ara Paraseghian was the Wildcats' head coach that year. To win, the Wildcats will offer the Spartans a healthy dose of running back and Heisman candi­date Damien Anderson, who gained 189 yards rushing and four touch­downs in Northwestern's 44-7 rout of Duke last Saturday. Notre Dame transfer Zak Kustok passed for 318 yards for 

OTHER TOP GAMES 
LSU at Tennessee 

Neither of these SEC powerhouses has played since Sept. 8. Saturday night's game between No. 14 LSU and future Irish opponent No. 7 Tennessee is a key battle in determining who plays in the SEC champi­onship. 
The game will be the Tigers first visit to Volunteer Stadium since 1993. The Tigers beat Tennessee 38-31 in overtime last year in Baton Rouge. 
LSU has outstanding skill players. In last week's 31­14 victory against Utah State, running back LaBrandon Toefield rushed for 183 yards and four touchdowns. Quarterback Rohan Davey can run and throw. He has 482 yards passing in LSU's first two games. 
The Volunteers squeezed out a 13-3 victory against Arkansas in their last game. Running back Travis Stephens ranks third in the country with 158 rushing yards a game. Many experts consider Tennessee defensive lineman John Henderson the best player in the nation. 
Anticipate a thrilling SEC game filled with talented players on both sides of the ball. Like most SEC bat­tles, big plays ,viii win this game. 
the Wildcats. 

The Spartans will be fly­ing high after their victory at Notre Dame last Saturday. Running back 
T.J. Duckett looks to get back on track after a mod­est 71-yard rushing per­formance against the Irish. The Spartans will likely split snaps between Jeff Smoker and Ryan Van Dyke at quarterback again. 
Saturday's game match­es two of the best running backs not only in the Big Ten, but also in the nation. Expect big days from both backs. Michigan State must exploit the height advantage their receivers have over the Wildcat corners. Michigan State wide receiver Charles Rogers stands at 6-foot-4. Northwestern corners Raheem Covington and Chasda Martin stand 5-foot-9 and 5-foot-11 respectively. Rogers scored the 47-yard touch­down that finished the Irish last Saturday. 
Irish fans will take inter­est in how the Wildcats' aggressive spread offen­sive attack moves the ball against the young Spartan defense. The Wildcats should be able to score points in bunches. Expect an offensive shootout in this game. 

Kansas State at Oklahoma 
Two great defenses will collide when No. 11 Kansas State and No. 3 Oklahoma battle Saturday. No teani played the defending national champions as tough as Kansas State last year. The Sooners needed a fourth­quarter comeback to beat the Wildcats in last year's Big 12 championship game. 
Kansas State out-gained New Mexico State 528-115 last week. The defense has given up a total of six points against USC and New Mexico State. Quarterback Ell Roberson will be the key for the Wildcat offense. He has been inconsistent thus far, but needs to play well to break the Oklahoma defense. 
Some believe the Sooner defense is the best college football has seen in years. Linebacker Rocky Calmus is the most watched player on the unit, but there's loads of talent elsewhere, especially with safeties Brandon Everage and Roy Williams. 
The Sooners have not played since Sept. 8. New 
quarterback Nate Ilybl will have to shake off some rust, or else the Sooners will find themselves is anoth­
-

er war with the Wildcats. 
around the dial 

Notre Dame at Texas A&M 
2:30 p.m., ABC Michigan State at Northwestern 
11 a.m.,ABC Penn State at Iowa 
11:00 a.m., ESPN Purdue at Minnesota 
11:00 a.m., ESPN2 Mississippi State at Florida 
2:30 p.m., CBS Texas Tech at Texas 
6:00 p.m., FO?{CH 
•. 1' 
''' 
'' 

I ''' page 8 The Observer . ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 28, 2001 
-
' 
:
I I 
I 
r 
I I 
' 
r I 
I
I 
I 
: I 
' 

Calling all Observer alumni: 
The Observer's 35th Anniversary bash 
· April 20, 2002 
For more information, or to RSVP, e-mail The Observer at obsreunion@hotmail.com 





