
Hardball host comes to visit
RAIN 

Monday 

Chris \1attlwws comns to ~I) today to dPliver a lecture as part of' thP
HIGH54° 
OCTOBER 15,
Jack Kelly and Gail \Veiss lecturns on Journalism. 
LOW 42° 
news . page 3 
2001 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Daine and Saint Marys 
VOL XXXV NO. 31 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
New York treats 3 for anthrax exposure 
Associated Press 
NE\\' YOHK 

.\ polirl' offic••r and two lab tPdrnidans involvPd in tlw '-iBC anthrax invPstigation havP l<'StNJ positivP for 1lw bartPria. \tayor Budolph Ciuliani said Sunday. Nf'vada ollicials said four p<'ople who may hav,, conw into contact with a contamiirntPd IPttPr at a \,1icrosof'l officp t1•stPd 1wgative. whil1' rPsults w1•n•n't known for two otlwrs. 
In \Vas hi ngton. mcanwh ilP. II 1· a Ith and II urn an S" r vi ct~s St><TAtary Tommy Thompson said lw considPrPd tlw anthrax cas11s in \p\\ York. \i1•vada and Florida to bP instann's of biotPr­rorism. '"It cPrtainlv is an act of . t•\rrorism to sP~1d anthrax through tlw mail." lw said on F(>x News Sunday. 
And .\ttornPv C1•1wral John· Ashrroft said it was prnrrn1tu1;c "to dPcidP whethPr thPrP is a dirPct link" to Osama bin Lad1•11·s terrorist rn•twork. but "wt\ should consid•'r this potPntial that it is linkPd." 
Tlw IH'W N1~w York cases brought to 12 thP numb<'r or pco­pll\ around thn nation who ,,ither hav<' anthrax or bEwn ,~xpos<•d to 
it. . 
That do1\s not include an NBC employ,~c who is taking antibi­otks al't<'r displaying possiblP 
symptoms of the diseasn. 
The anthrax scare began Oct. 4 vvlwn it vvas confirmed that a Florida tabloid Pditor had ccm­tractPd thn •inhalPd form of the bactPria. I!is dPath a day later was tlw lirst resulting from the d ist~ase in thP United States sinc·p l<J7(>. 
SPvPn other employees of Anwrican t\-1Pdia Inc. have tPst­nd positive for exposure and are b11ing tn~ated with antibi­otics. None have d!'veloped the diseast>. A sPcond round of blood tf\sts f'or morn than .300 of' thP company's employees is <'xped<'d this w1•Pk. 
'.\Jpws of tlw <'xposurPs has rausPd jitters around the world. with a number of false or pending cases n~ported over the \,\'f'<'kt'nd. Among them: 
. 
In Ihrwaii. hazardous-materi­als teams werr called to Lihue Airport after passt•ngprs on a flight from Los Ang<~les discov­Pred a whilf~ po\,·der on their luggage after they arrived. T,~st-; wPre being conducted on the pmvder. 

. 
In Uniontown. Pa.. a 49-year­old woman was givtm Cipro. an antibiotic for anthrax. and was 




tested for ,~xposure aftnr receiv­ing an envelope containing a powdnry substance. She was later released from a hospital. 
. In England. several hundred_ 
people were evacuated from Canterbury Cathedral after a worker said he saw a man drop­ping a white powder in one of the 

chapels. Workers wearing chem­ical protection suits cleared up 
seeANTHRAX/page 4 
GIVE THE BOYS A HAND 

Leprechuan Adam Urra hugs New York fighter fighters at half time during Saturday's home football game against West Virginia. 
Officials 
ban vulgar 
T-shirts 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News EJiwr 
The word "suck" kept John Furka and Brian Kahn shirtless in the rain Saturday during the Notre Dame-\Vest Virgina football game. 
Notre Dame Stadium ush­ers wouldn't allow the University sophomores into the facility Saturday after• noon before they turned inside out or removed T­shi rts with language deemed inappropriate by security officials. 
"I was a little annoyed about the situation, but we ended up just taking them off." Kahn said of the "Notre Dame football sucks" shirts. 
The navy blue shirts fea­tured gold writing on both sides. The front read "ND tailg.ating '01." 0 n back was "Drinking because we suck." 
They were among about 3 0 shirts Kahn • s cirn sin printed last month. 
Officials  con side red  
"suck"'  a  vulgar  term.  
according  to  Cappy  

Gagnon. coordinator of Stadium personrn~I. 
"We have a poliry that we don't allow vulgar matPrial into the Stadium.·· Gagnon said. "Even without the pol­icy, we wouldn't do it any­way." 
The University adoptf~d the policy more than five years ago, whirn students printed and wore to the Stadium "F Michigan" T­shirts. Gagnon said. In the past. officials also barred a "Kans-Ass" shirt. 
"\Ve've had one or two people say it was a First Amendment issue." Gagnon said of past incidents of students wearing possibly insulting clothing. "\Ve say it's a. Stadium decorum issue. \-Ve try to creat<~ a. family environment." 
The shirts didn't thrPa.ten that family-oriented ,~nvi­ronment. thP students said. 
"I don't think ["suck" isl a bad ,,·ord," Furka said. "It's not thP bPst word. but there's words that Wf' could'vp put on then' that would havP bPPn a lot 
see SHIRT/page 4 



page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Monday, October 15, 200 I 
INSIDE COLUMN 
The real challenge 
The last time America was threatened, Franklin DP;lano Roosevelt told the nation, "All we have to foar is fear itself." A month after the unspeakablP tPrrorist attacks, it is important for Americans to heed this message from 50 years 
ago. But it is not our mili­ 
tary that needs to hear  Kevin Suhanic  
this; it is the ordinary  
American citizen that  
should listen.  
This weekend my family  Wire Editor  
came up for the West  
Virginia game. They were  
actually somewhat appre­ 

hensive. espedally after the new terro~ist warn­
ings from the FBI. "A big football game would be a nice target," I heard one tailgater say. 
My mother also told me what a bad idea going abroad was next year. She felt, like many other relatives of mine, that being an American would automatically make me a target while living in a foreign country. I refuse to listen to her, but I must admit that it seems popular opinion is in agreement with both my mother and the tail­gater. 
And in reality. they are absolutely right. As we have heard so many times. our world is different after Sept. 11. \Ve have very good reason to question our safety on a daily basis. It seems that we are not only at risk in large groups, but we may even be in danger when we open our mail now. The world can be a scary place for an American. But what is scarier is the fact that these attacks could destroy the very essence of what it means to be American. 
I do not worry that terrorists will destroy our entire country. but it seems we may be letting them destroy American ideals. I know of Muslims who no longer wear their traditional ethnic cloth­ing because they fear hate crimes from their neighbors. That is not American. It is imperative that we recognize this is what makes America so great: the fact that Jews, Muslims, Christians, Buddhisl<; and atheists can practice their respr.c­tive religions, and at the same time still bf': Americans. 
People are now often afraid to disagree with politirians, foaring they will be deemed unpatri­otic -that is not American. Those who disagree with America's stance are simply showing us why America is so great. \Ve do have the right to sprak our minds, unlike those in Afghanistan who can be beaten or killed for saying the wrong word. 
We must not be afraid to gather for a common cause. When we all gather in Notre Dame Stadium to cheer on our favorite team, we arc undoubtedly at risk. But it is a far greater risk to give up our right to assemble in fear of terrorists and their evil. 
America is not great because we have the tallest buildings or the biggest military. There is no doubt that our armed forces will be victorious in the military struggle. However. at the same time. it is up to you and me to make sure that we \Vin the ideological war. \Ve must ensure that freedom of assembly, freedom of religion and freedoms of speech never perish from the earth. 
A,;; I explained to my mother this weekend: I may be killed just for being an American abroad, but that is preferable to living in fear ofthe world. Sept. 11 changed history, but we must not let this terror change what it means to be an American. We cannot let fear change us, and it starl-, with not changing our daily routines. 
Kevin 5iuhanic is a sophomore accounting major. lie can be reached at ksuhanic@nd.edu. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS/ CLARIFICATIONS 
The Ohserver n.·gards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest sundards of journ,ilism ,tt all times. We do, however. recognize: that we will make mistakes. If we have made a misr.1kt:, pbi,e conracr us at 631-4541 so we can c.:orn:<.:r our c:rror. 
Tht· Ohst'IYt'f ,l.',I'', ')<)•) 2-11000) is puhlisht'd :-.1ond.1r d1rollf:h Frid.tr t·xn·pi dunn~ ,·x.un .md v.1l·.11i,111111:riods. Thr Ohsnwr is ,1 member of rll<' :\~"•u.u,·d Pn·" :\ll rq>roduu1on n1,;l11s .m· rt·ser,·t·d. 
.THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Monday  Tuesday  
. Lecture: "Washington  . Lecture: "Does-Heligion  
Today: The inside View,"  Cause Viohmce," William  
Chris Matthews. 7:30 p.m..  Cavanaugh. J2:30 p.m..  
Carey Auditorium  Jlesburgh Center  
. Altar Dedication:  Concert: U.S. Air Force  
6 to 8 p.m.. Coleman  Band of Flight. 7:30 p.m.,  
Family Center for Campus  ()'Laughlin Auditorium.  
Ministry  Saint Mary's  


Wednesday 
. 
Lecture: "Health Boosts from Leisure: Early Hetirement and Longevity," 3 p.m.. O'Shaunessy Hall 

. 
Event: Annual Women in Religion Luncheon. noon, McKenna Hall 


Thursday 
. Lecture: "How do Heputations form? New and Seasoned Borrowers in International Capital Markets," Mike Tomz. 4:1~ p.m.. Ilesburgh Center 
Compiled from U.Wire reports 
BEYOND CAMPUS 

Berkeley employs college sex offender registry 
BERKELEY  registration requirement fri all sex  
Calif. Gov. Gray Davis has signed  offenders who enroll as students or  
a  bill that will force convicted sex  are  employed the college. The new  
offenders who enroll in  or become  law also includes anyone who works  
employed by any California college  on the campus, such as construction  
to register with campus police.  workers, who are  not employed by  
Under  the  bill,  authored  by  the school.  
Assembly member Patricia Bates,  "Sex offense happens all over, but  
failure to register will be considered  we  have such  a high concentration  
a  criminal offense. The  measure  of people here," Cooper said.  
was signed into law Monday and  According to  UC police statistics.  
will go into effect October 2002.  five  cases of forced sexual assaults.  
California is the first state to  "It's good for the university."  which includes rape and attempted  
enact such comprehensive legisla­ Sex  offenders  living  in  UC­ rape. were reported in the 2000 cal­ 
tion, which has been hailed by vari­ Berkeley  housing  are  already  endar year.  .  
ous  law enforcement and victims'  required by law to re·gister with  "People  come  to  the University  
rights organizations, according to a  campus police. But crimes r,ommit­ and have a higher sense of security.  
statement from Bates' office.  ted on  campus by noncampus resi­ believing that the University will  
"We had expected this bill  to  dents are difficult to track. Cooper  protect them," Cooper said. "Having  
come  forward," said University of  said.  the information [the bill provides]  
California police Capt. Bill Cooper.  This legislation will expand the  will benefit the students."  

UNIVERSITY OF IOWA 
Vilsack reduces university budget 
In a move University of Iowa officials call a "relief." Gov. Tom Vilsack ordered a statewide spending cut of $200 million Thursday, which in effect reduced the university's 7 percent budget cut to 4.:3 percent. Hours prior to Vilsack's announce­ment, state budget analysts reduced this year's state tax revenues by $157 .5 million, forcing Vilsa.ck to implement an across-the-board cut in state spend­ing. The decision will slash the University's original budget cuts from $21.9 million to approximately $13.5 million. The school still faces· a difficult situa­tion even though the newly proposed cut is a sub­stantial decrease, said President Mary Sue Coleman. The University already slashed $ J8.7 million from its budget this year because of a shortfall in state rev-· enue."I just heard the announcement, and every decrease is good for us, but it;s .still going to be a challenge." Coleman said. "I am not sure exactly how this is going to affect layoffs, but we are looking at all the options. I am grateful for this relief." 

TEXAS A&M 
School discontinues candlelight vigil 
No university-sponson~d memorial ceremony to com­memorate tlrn s,~cond anniversary of tlrn 1 t)99 Aggie­Bonfire collapse is planned, Texas A&M University offi­cials said. "I laving a ceremony was the right thing to do last year, but that doesn't mean it's the right thing to do now," said Vir,e President for Student Affairs Malon Southerland. A candlelight ceremony was held Nov. 18. 2000 at 2:42 a.m. on the Polo Fields to n'nwmbPr the~ I 2 studenL,;; killed in the collapsn. Although no similar ev(mt is scheduled, Nov. 18 will not pass unnoticed. Southerland said. The f'ou r finalists in th11 Bonf'i rP Memorial design competition will be unveiled and put on display, and other Bonfire-related cwents are in the works. "We'll always remember Nov. 18. and the best way to do that is through the permanent memorial," Southerland said. Student Body President Schuyler 
. Houser students would prnfor a morn private and dis­
1 

crete remembrance this year. "\Ve can't let the week come and go without recognizing what happened, but students don't want to have to relive it again." 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
Accu Weather"' forecast for daytime conditions and hi h temperatures 
Tuesday Wednesday ~ Thursday ~w63 
1
Friday\,.1 j ~ *~:65 
, -rr 
/.· / 
Saturday ,,-:-~9~ 61 
44 
(r---.,,.r,....·~./-,.,'.,.r: 

Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. FRONTS: ee 0 2001 AccuWeather, Inc. COLO WARM STATIONARY  
,.,.,..,,., ®© ...... High low Showers Rain T-slotms Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy  
V1• Assoc,.atttd Press  

Atlanta 73 58 Las Vegas 86 70 Portland 69 52 Baltimore 73 55 Memphis 70 52 Sacramento 77 59 Boston 70 51 Milwaukee 50 42 St. Louis 67 52
Q,Q~cQQQq~~ 

Chicago 68 51 New York 68 48 Tampa 81 66
Showers T-storms Ram Fl~r;,es S~o·; Ice Sunny Pt Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Pr9SS Graph,csNet Houston 81 62 Philadelphia 69 49 Washington DC 75 64 
Monday, October 15, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
CHILE 
CNN talk

Comedian asks government to lift ban 
show 

• Senate addresses law banning divorce 
Associated Press 
SANTIAGO 
:\s lw \\TappPd up his pPr­

l'o r m a n c <' at a Ch iiP a n ca rn ­
paign rally. tlw conwdian had 
just onP rPquPst for sPnatorial 
hop<•f'ul FnriquP-Krauss: 
"PlmLsP. sir, work for ii divorc1~ 
law so I can g"1 marriPd." 
Tlw <·omNlian. known as El 
Indio, is sPparated l'rom his 
t'irst wifo. but can't remarry 
bf~causP Chi!<' is onP of tlrn few 
• countriPs in thP world that still bans divorn\. 
Tlw candidatP. according to 
Uw daily La Sf•gunda. mmlP no 
promises. That's no surprise. 
Over the past 90 years, repeat­
ed attr!mpts to break thP ban 
have foundered on the rocks of 
the Homan Catholic church and 
the consPrvative political 
1~stablishmcnt. 
flowcver, the issue may final­
ly bP coming up for a S<mate 
vote. 
i\ft(~r 12 failf~d attempts. the lower housP of Congress passed the bill in 1997. but it languished them for four years -until last week, when a SenatP committee took it up. 
Tlw government, which sup­ports tlw biII • h a d r cc,, n tIy propost•d several changes in an att••mpt to makn it morn acreptablP to th<• snnators. ThP committee must filn a n~port to tlw full SPnatP within ]O davs. 
Amirng tht• thousands of ChilPans trapped in brokPn marriagPs, fow arP holding tlwir breath. The Sf•nate has S<'t no datP for voting, and wlwn it finally happt>ns. the outcomP will hang on onP or two votes. says Con gress,vom an Antonie ta Saa. 
If' enactt-•d, the Civil Marriagf~ l:a\\' will makn divorce a costly and protracted affair. 
Couples will haw~ to show a judge that they underwent counseling. Stringent rules will protect the rights of children, guarantee their schooling is paid for, and that alimony and child support arc provided. 
So far so good, say both sup­porters and opponents. But proponents of the right to divorce are unhappy with the clause requiring husband and wife to show that they have lived apart for four years ­three if the divorce is uncon­tested. 
"That's an eternity when things are not working out for a couple," said Saa. 




The intent, explained Justice Minister Jose Antonio Gomez is "to protect the families and give couples a time to reflect." 
Some think the law makes things worse. "It's better being 

the only Western country with­out a divorce law than the Western country with the worst divorce Iaw ,.: said Jim ena Valdes, who runs a think tank specializing in women's stud-
ONVAYS V""C A


1~{7//2110 I VqM 
I OCK 219 $25 

VN'ESVAYS 10/31-12/12 12:10-12:50 
$21 TAI CH.I 
1SRC W'EVNESVAYS 
10/31-12/12 7-7:4-5pm,, $21 
R~~~ 

TUESDAYS 
10/30-12/11 12:10-12:50 $21 7-8:15pm,, $25 
RSRC 
TTlU'RSOAYS 11/1-12/6 7-8:15pm,, $21 RSRC 
. Registration begins Tuesday, October 16, 7:30am in the RSRC. 1-6100 with questions. 
TI-IE CANDAX-ME MCNAIR PROGRAM 
Dr. Ronald E. McNair 
ANNOUNCES THE 2001 -2002 RECRUITMENT MEETINGS WITH PROF. MARIO BORELLI 
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2001 
7:00 -8:00 PM (Pizzas & Sodas ivill be served) 
IN ROOM 117 HAYES-HEALY
~--·
"'· 
: 1 .. 
,~~~ (pEADLINJ:_J:QJLAff__tJ~~"tlQN~ ct'LQY._Z_O) 
. ·;,..,,-' 
f ' ;.

. :~ FOR ALL UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS WHO ARE 
. ..·' I 
'. 
' . EITHER:
;.1· ::. :"¥ 
. ~. ·•"" 
• First Generation College Students from low income families 
(all ethnic backgr.ounds nrc el('l,iblc) 
OR 
CANDAX-ME is • African Americans, Hispanics, Native A1nericans A Federally Funded TRIO Program 
( visit the ro rra,n at htt ://www.nd.edu/~1nario/mcnair/) 
host rolls 
·into ND 
Special to the Observer 
Chris \.1 at th c \.Vs. host of' 
"Hardball" on \.1SNBC and 
CNBC, will deliver this year's 
Jack Kellv and Gail Weiss 
Lecture on Journalism and 
Politics at the University of 
Notre Dame on today. The 
lecture, which is free and 
open to the public, will begin 
at 7:30 p.m. in Carey 
Auditorium in the llesburgh 
Library. 
Matthews, who also is a 
nationally syndicated colum­
nist for the San Francisco 
Chronicle, will make a pre­
sentation titled "Washington 
Today: The Inside View." His 
talk will be followed by a 
question and answer session. 
Currently a visiting fellow at 
Harvard University's John F. 
Kennedy Institute of Politics, 
Matthews is the author of 
three books, "Hardball," 
"Kennedy & Nixon," and the 
forthcoming "Now, Let Me 
Tell You What I Really 
Think." Before entering jour­
nalism, Matthews served as a 
speeclnvriter for President 
Carter and as a top aide to 
former House Speaker 
Thomas P. O'Neill Jr. 
A graduate of Holy Cross, 
he did graduate work at the 
University of North Carolina. 
lie has receivfld numerous 
honorary doctoral degrees in 
recent years. 
The lecture series, inaugu­rated last year by Tim Hussert of NBC News, was created with an endowment gift from John/\. Kelly, a member of the Notre Dame class of 1974, a prominent \Nashington lobbyist and for­mer aidn to Presidents H<~agan and George 11.W. Bush , and his wife, GaiI E . Weiss, who recently complPt­ed over three decades of gov­ernment service on Capitol Hill. At her retin~ment shP was the Democratic staff. director of the llousP Education and \Vorkforce Committef1. 
The couple has been actiV(?­lv involved with and support­ed Notre Dame for many years, with Kelly currently serving on the University's i\dvisorv Council for Graduate Studies ·and Research. 


SPRING BREAK 2002 
Orpnin G,oup &, Go FrM. ..,\'.,.11 
.!'ree Partin 4Q,,a,._..,•• 
&Hoursof . ­
FREE Drinks.. • · • , 
FREE Meats for Limited Time! . For Details and the hst Rat 

f 
i 
page 4 The Observer . NEWS Monday, October I5, 200 l 
I 
postmarked in St: Petersburg, EGYPT Fla. -as the likely source of the

Anthrax 
anthrax. Giuliani said the police oflicer

continued from page 1 
Mubarak criticizes Sharon
had the bacteria in his nose, as

I 
' the powder and took samples for did one lab technician. Another 
technician had a spore on her
analysis.

I 
In ·New York, Giuliani said the face. Both work for the city 
health department, which con­

I 
otlicer and t\vo technicians were ducted the tests. 
exposed while working on the Exposure to the spores does
anthrax case involving Erin

i 
not mean infection and the three

! O'Connor, 38, the assistant to are expected to be fine, Giulinai
NBC News anchor Tom Brokaw. said. Their identities were not
O'Connor is PXpPCtf'd to rPcover released.
from thf' infection. 
O'Connor was cxposr.d when In Nevada, where a letter sent to a Microsoft otlke in Heno con­

shf' opened a letter. containing a t a in e d
brown granular 
porno­

substancP, that 
"ft sounds like the other 
graphic pic­was mailr.d to 
Brokavv from two may come back tures conta­minated

Trenton, N.J. It negative as well, That's 
w i t h
was postmarked 
obviously great news." 
anthrax,

Sept. 18, one 
officials
week after terror­said tests of

ist attacks on the Matt Pilla four people
World Trade 
Microsoft spokesperson 
who mayCenter and have been

Pentagon. 
exposed proved negative for theFederal officials in New Jersey bacteria.

interviewed postal workers and watched surveillance videotapes Results for two others were Sunday as part of their efforlq to pending. with results of those trace the letter, but acknowl­nasal swab tests likely known edged it would be difficult. Postal Monday, said \'\fashoe County 
health oflicer Barbara Hunt.

Service officials believed it could have been mailed from one of 46 The six people tested included post offices, FBI Special Agent five Microsoft workers and a Sandra Carroll said. family member. 
"It's very complex and a very "We're obviously relieved to 
hear that four of the employees

comprehensive investigation that's a lot like looking for a nee­who were tested, their tests dle in a haystack," Carroll said came back negative," Microsoft 
Sunday. spokesman Matt Pilla said. "It At ffrst, O'Connor thought she sounds like the other two may had thrown awav the letter, but come back negative as well. 
remembered it Friday while That's obviously great news." being interviewed, New York State officials have sent the postal inspector Peter Nash said pornographic pictures to the 
Sunday. Centers for Disease Control and Investigators had initially Prevention in Atlanta for further focused on a second letter -testing. 
Papa Johns Pizza 

that's why you see that there reaching a solution to the Associated Press are attacks against me in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict have Western press accusing me of evaporated, Mubarak said. CAIRO dictatorship. He praised President Bush 
Israel is a dictatorship and "The true dictatorship is in for his recent endorsement of a Prime Minister Ariel Sharon Israel, where the verdicts of Palestinian state, but addf~d knows only \var and slaughter. the judiciary are not imple­this "should be translated into Egyptian President Hosni mented and human rights do practical steps that include Mubarak reportedly said not exist," Mubarak said, putting thn peace process back Sunday. according to Nafie. on track." 
Mubarak spoke in a meeting A frequent mediator between The president has given with Arab editors and senior Israel and the Palestinians, prominence to his pursuit of a journalists. His comment-; were Mubarak has toughened his solution to the Palestinian reported by a participant, criticism of Israel's leadership question, apparently aiming to 
Ibrahim Nafie, the editor of Al­in recent months as the mute domestic criticism of his Ah ram newspaper and the Palestinian conf1ict deteriorat" support for ·u.s. airstrikes on chairman of Egypt's Press ed. On Sunday, he repeated an Afghanistan. Syndicate. earlier criticism that the Israeli In an interview with Israel's 
Hecalling his talks with prime minister puts security state-run Channel 1 television, British Prime Minister Tony before peace. he said: "They have started in Blair on Thursday, Mubarak "Sharon doesn't know any­Afghanistan and if they man­
told the editors: "My message thing except war, killing and age to catch the terrorists was dear. We should not let slaughter," he said. them it will be a great achieve­Sharon kill and destroy, and Under Sharon, hopes of ment." 
the shirt to the Oct. 6 Notre He noted that he received Dame-Pittsburgh game. he from Stadium crew few
Shirts 

said. reports this weekend about Furka said Saturday was the students wearing inappropri­
continued from page 1 

first time he wore the shirt to ate shirts. No students com­worse." the Stadium. plained to him about shirt­
Ushers asked the men Ushers typically ask fans banning inddents this Wf~ek­Saturday to remove the~ shirl-; before they are seated to end, he said. twice, once during half-time remove or turn inside out Saturday's incident wouldn't and again during the fourth shirts deemed unfit, Gagnon deter Furka and Kahn from quarter, according to Kahn. said. If visitors inside the sporting the shirts at future Both times the men were in venue don't follow the instruc­home games, the men said. the student section of the tion, ushers usually repeat the "I just think it's a funny stands. request. shirt. I think it's good for a 
Following the usher's second "We give people plenty of laugh." Furka said. request, the men left the shirts warnings," Gagnon said. "If off for the rest of the game, he people refused, they'd be said. removed from the Stadium, 
Contact Jason McFarley at 

Stadium workers did not but that's not something we've 
mcfarley.l@nd.edu.

confront Kahn when he wore had to do with a student." 
--,, , ,. .... . . 
"Jfast a11d 
1::~>1~!@1~ ', 
..~-­
is now accepting applications for the position of 
MARl<ETING INTERN 
*15-20 hours per week 
* Position through May 2002 (or longer is student is available) 
* 
Local store marketing 

* 
Local sales building 

* Promotions 

* 
Flexible schedule * $8-1 0/hour 


* Commission 
* Work directly with owner 
.;~;: .···· ~C!;tt ·. -\ii/~~i;!~~i!}{..
Send resume and fetter of interest to: 

Broadway Theatre league Presentation 
Alison Patton 

October 18-19, 2001
4504 Epinay Court 

For tickets and information
Louisville, KY 40272 

Call 234-4044
Or fax to:{502) 933-3599 

Toll Free 1-877-315-1234 
PAPA JOHN'S PIZZA is an EOE 

Student, senior, and group discounts available for a 
Morris Performing Arts Cent 

. . ....,.~...-.
*FUN*EXPERIENCE while e~ucating*S0O/o pizza 


--, 


ATION 
Monday October 15th, 2001 COMPILED FHOM THE OBSEHVEH \VIHE SEHVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Colombia captures rogue fighters: 
SoldiNs on Sunday captun~d (~ight paramili­tary light<'rs· suspPclPd of killing at !Past 24 pPasants in a village in southwestern Colombia, the army said. The suspnctPd nrnm­bcrs of thP outlaw militia. knO\vn as the United s,,If-Dcfonsc Forces of Colombia. or AUC. werP caught in a. raid in the province of Vall,, dnl Cauca. n<~ar whore an Oc.t. 10 mas­sacrP ol' tlw pPasants took place. 
Indian 1nine rescue unlikely: I lopf~s 
l'or thP survival of 50 workPrs trappnd since last WPek in an illegal mine in Past<>.rn India we r<' fading Sun clay. Th n mine caved in WPclnnsday. Sonw or the trapped workers could bP hPard shouting for help. but rcscm~ officials foar,,d any l'urth(-ff rescue attempt may rausl' f'urthnr damagn. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Hurricane Karen weakens: llurri­rarw KarPn vvPakPnPd to a tropical storm on Sunday and was PxpPctPd to WPaknn further. f'orp,•astt·rs said. Tropical Storm KarPn was moving north at almost 12 mph and was nxpPctt•d to gradually inrrPasP in spn,~d as thP systPm approarlwd Nova Scotia. 
School bus crash kills three: A school bus in Nl'lJraska craslwd whilt~ rnturning from a high school band rompt'lition. killing thn~P pPoplP and injuring mor<) than 30 Sunday. ThP school bus had VPPrf'd off tlw road to avoid a s1;,·prving tour bus, students on board told pol in'. 
·Minnesota leaders reach accord: 
LPadPrs l'rom tlw two larg1'st statP (\mployn(~S u n ions m ct Su n d a y to cl f' r id <' w Im tlw r to <'ndorsP tPntlttiv1• contract ckals rParlwd with tlw stall'. which would <•nd a two-v\'(\('k strikP by about 2:-LOOO gov<'rnnwnt work!'rs. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Wounded deer stir debate: Sightings or a cl f' (' r w i th an arrow in its s ide havP inl1anwd sonw rPsidPnts of' B,·vPrly Shon~s. a northwt·st Indiana town. who opposP d<'Pr hunting. Tlw Town Counril dPcidPd in Mardi to allow rt'sidPnts to hunt dPPr on. tlwir own prop<'rlY in hopPs ol' 1·ontrolling tlw dPPr pop­ulation. Now that hunting sPason has bPgun. a rotnwil nwPting Monday night was Pxpected to rf'kindlt> tlw dPbatP ovnr hunting within tlw to\vn's bord('rs. tlw Post-Tribune rPported. Onn rt'sidPnt said sh,1 saw a wound<'d don about 20 l't><'t from lwr bay window. 
Market Watch October 12 
-66.29 
Co1nposite Volume: 
N/A 
-7.60 +l.93 -3.8 l -5.78 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

:0MPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
:1sco SYSTEMS (CSCO) +2.98 +0.49 16.95 ~ASDAQ 100 INDX (QQQ) -0.43 -0.15 34.55 JDS UNIPHASE (JDSU) +1.01 +0.09 9.04 JUNIPER NETWORK (JNPR) +26.56 +4.42 21.06 INTEL CORP (INT() +2.08 +0.51 25.02 
AMEX: NASDAQ: NYSE: S&P 500: 
AFGHANISTAN 


Associated Press 
CAIHO 
A Kuwaiti spokesman for Osama bin Laden issued a blistering televised threat Parly today to kill Westerners. whether in their home countries or in the Persian Gulf area. In th11 proc1\ss. he directly linked the bin Lach~n ter­
rorist  network  to  the  
attacks  in  the  United  
States on Sept. 11.  

The spokesman•. Suleiman Abu Ghcith. an Islamic preacher from Kuwait, urged Muslims to continue to demonstrate against the American bc>mbing of Afghanistan 
and warned the United States that ..the storms will not calm down, especially the storm of airplanes. until you see defeat in Afghanistan." 
lie ended his brief recorded message with a threat of more attacks on civilians and cities. 
Continuing a series of tchwision appearanci~s this wcnk. and speaking in defons.e of bin Laden. Abu Glieith warned "Muslims in the United States and in Britain. and children and others who are against the unjust American policy, not to travel by airplanes and not to live in high buildings or skyscrapers." 

American television net­works were extrernclv wary of showing the broadcast on Saturday night. In Washington. the White House quickly dis­missed the tape as propa­ganda. 
Abu Ghcith. in his appearance on Al Jazeera. an Arabic-language satel­1ite network. invoked divine support. "Greatness is for Allah. his prophets and the faithful," he said, "but the infidels do not know it." 
The Qetwork, based in Qatar on the Persian Gulf, is a popular source of news through the Arabic­speaking world. 
Its coverage of the effects of the American bombing of Afghanistan ­it has -been the only international television station with camera crews in Kabul -has been used by CNN, BBC and other major news organizations since the airstrikes began a week ago. 
But the Bush administra­tion has complain Pd that Al Jazeera and other sta­tions have acted irrespon­sibly by showing speeches from bin Laden and his associates. and it has sug­gested that the messages might contain coded instructions to terrorist cells. 

FBI investigates driving school 
Can~ers vVorldwide told the FBI that at least part of every class at the
A~sociated Press 

25 to 35 Arab men took the school's school and remembers no such DENVEH two-week truck-driving course over groups. 
Tlw FBI chm:kPd student records the past two years. 'Tve seen nobody that v.ould raise at a truck-driving school in Colorado, Time said its source was a state suspicion," Atencio said. "\Ve do an empl<iyee said, as federal agents official, whom it did not identify. have people that come through here nationwide trif'd to prevent the use According to the source, the ex­who are from foreign countries." of trucks loaded with dangerous employee told the FBI the trainees Atencio said it would be impossible matPrials in terrorist attacks. paid cash for the program and did to train someone who did not speak 
Agents visited the school in not seek jobs when they finished. English. Ilcnderson, northeast of DenvPr. for None spoke English, and all worked Be·fore attending the school. a fow hours last week, checking for through the same interpreter, Timf' trainees must get a state permit, spt'ritic nanws, classroom instructor reported. which rnquirPs them to pass a writ­Jack Att•rwio said Saturday. Atencio, who has taught students ten t<)St in English. he said. They 
Tinrn magazine reported in its Oct. at the school for four years, denied then must go to the statf~ to get the 22 issue that a former employee of the Time report. He said he teaches license. 
page 6 The Observer . NEWS Monday, October 15, 2001 
U .S.-led warplanes attack capital sites 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON U.S.-led forces opened a 

· second week of air strikes Sunday with an assault on the capital's communica­tions system and more of the ruling Taliban's mili­tary assets. 
U.S. warplanes have destroyed nearly all of the targets originally assigned to them, including militant training camps and weapons storage areas. the captain of the USS Enterprise aircraft carrier said Sunday. 
"We're sort of in a cleanup mode right now." said the captain ·who can­not be identified under military rules for covering the operation. 
Expanded ground opera­tions am expected to play 
a mor(' 
prominent 
role in the 
"There's nothing to be 
study the
effort to 
nagotiated. They're reported
root out 
missile
Osama bin harboring a terroist. They 
strike in
Laden and 
need to turn him over. " 
Karam,
his terror-
which is
ist net-
about 80
George Bush 
work as 
miles east
the air U.S. president 
campaign \-vinds down. 
Meanwhile, the Taliban sought again to negotiate an end to the bombing. saying they would give him to a third nation if the raids stop and the United States shows evidence he was involved in the Sept. 11 attacks on America. 
President Bush immedi­ately rejected the offer. 
"There's nothing to nego­tiate," Bush told reporters at the \,Vhite House. "They're harboring a ter­rorist. They need to turn him over." 
On the eighth day of the raids, U.S. jets destroyed Kabul's Chinese-built international teleP.hone exchange, severing one of the last means of commu­nication with the outside world. Residents also said the capital's historic Mogul-style Balahisar Fort. built in the early 20th cen­tury, was in ruins. The report could not be con­firmed because security kept outsiders from the area. 
Other targets included the cities of Mazar-e-Sharif, Kandahar. Jalalabad and Herat, according to the Taliban Information Ministry. Explosions wen, heard in the evening well north elf Kabul, the capital, in the direction of the front lines bf~ twe e n o p p o s it i o n a n d Taliban fightnrs. 
And the U.S. Air Force was trying to gatlH\r mon! intPlligt•nct• to chnck out 
the Taliban claim that an Amer.ican missile had killed nearly 200 civilians Thursday in the village of Karam, Pentagon officials said Sunday. 
The claim, if true, would make it the deadliest single mistake in the campaign by 
U.S. and British warplanes. 
On Saturday, a Pentagon official acknowledged that a 2,000-pound satellite­guided bomb missed a heli­copter at Kabul airport and slammed into a civilian area. As many as four peo­ple were killed, according to witnesses and Taliban officials. 
The Pentagon has been regularly assessing dam­age from the raids by using satellite photos and infor­mation gathered from spy plane overflights. But offi­cials declined to say exact­
ly what was being used to 
of Kabul in an area where bin Laden is believed to train 
fighters for  his AI-Qaida  
network.  
Relaxing a  ban that kept  

foreign reporters out of areas of Afghanistan that it controls, the Taliban took 15 journalists to the village Sunday to see fresh graves scattered about. Villagers said more bodies were buried in the mountains. carried there by residents as they fled after the bombs and it was not pos­sible to independently con­firm the number dead. 
The Air Force alone flew some 400 sorties in the first week of the operation, including those for refuel­ing, humanitarian food drops and bombing raids, officials said. Navy pilots carried out hundreds more sorties. 
The Pentagon also said Sunday that a humanitari­an food drop Saturday was nearly doubled to make up for operations canceled Thursday night for still unexplained reasons. Some 69,000 packets of food were dropped for hungry Afghans, many of whom had fled their homes to avoid the bombings. 
Bush launched the attacks Oct. 7 after the Taliban militia repeatedly rejected demands to hand over bin Ladnn, chief' sus­pnct in the Sept. 11 terror­ist attacks in which some 6,000 people are believed to have died. 
HAITI 

Peace talks collapse 
Associated Press 
POHT-AU-PHINCE 
Talks collapsed between Haiti's governing and opposition parties Sunday, a day after they started, the latest in a string of failed attempts to end the coun­try's 16-month political stand­off. 
Yet again the sides could not agree on which elections to con­duct to resolve the conflict that emerged after President Jean­Bertrand Aristide's party swept last year's elections. The oppo­sition claims Aristide's Lavalas Family party won by fraud, and has called for all new elections. 
Millions of dollars in foreign aid have been put on hold until the crisis is resolved. 
The talks began Saturday 

under pressure from Luigi Einaudi, assistant secretary­general of the Organization of American States, who came to Haiti to revive negotiations that broke off in July. 
"We did not obtain a concrete result that will permit thp, sig­nature of an initial agrnmncnt," Einaudi told reporters Sunday before leaving Haiti. 
OAS oflicials have traveled to Haiti at least 15 times to try to resolve the standoff between the Lavalas Family Party and the 15-party Convergence oppo­sition alliance. 
On Saturday, Lavalas and Convergence tentatively agreed to hold parliamentary elections for the 83-seat lower house and two-thirds of the 27-seat upper house·in November 2002. 
But Aristide's party refused to · 
NOW LEASING FOR THE 2002-2003 SCHOOL YEAR 
DOMUS PROPERTIES HAS 
-2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, & 10 
BEDROOM HOUSES -STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS -CLOSE TO CAMPUS -SECURITY SYSTEMS -WELL MAINTAINED HOMES 
shorten the terms of' mavors aldermen and local assernbly members. For the new elec­tions, the party insisted the incumbents be allowed to stay in office until results are offi­cial. 
Lavalas spokesman Sen. Yvon Neptune said the terms arc "nonnegotiable." The opposi­tion refused those conditions. 
"We cannot accept the unac­ceptable," said opposition legal adviser Osner Fevry. "Last year's so-called elections were an electoral coup d'etat." 
Aristide's party won 80 per­cent of local and legislative seats in the May 2000 ,~lections. Aristide won his second, non­consecutive term as pn~sident in November elections boy­cotted by tho major opposition parties. 

-MANITENANCE STAFF ON CALL -WASHERAND DRYERS 
CONTACT KRAMER (219) 298-9673 OR (219) 234-2436 OR (2.19) 674-2471 

Men's Basketball Walk-On Tryouts 
Wednesday, October 17, 2001 
At the Main Arena (Joyce Center) 
7:00 PM 
• Bring your gear ready to practice 
• Practice will be run by Head Coach Mike Brey and the Irish Staff 
• Any questions please call the office at 1-6225 

-, 

Monday, October 15, 200 I The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
NIGERIA 
Muslim mob ignites violent protest 
Associated Press 
KANO 

Firns smoldered in burned cars and ruined buildings in the northern city of Kano on Sunday, a day after Muslirn-Christian claslws lid't at lf-mst 13 people dPad and rPligious tensions high. 
Th(• fighting Saturday was appan•ntly ignited by clashes 
b{~twecn police and an armed mob Friday following a prott~st by Muslims against the U.S.-led airstrikf1s on Afghanistan. 
Hundreds of soldiers patrolled Kano, located 500 miles north of the commercial capital Lagos, restoring an uneasy calm Sunday. Burning tires and garbage litternd a four-lane road in Kano and firefighters battled to put out firns in sevnral build­ings. 
vVitnesses said three churches and a mosque Wfff(~ partially burned Saturday, but govern­ment officials said only one church and one mosque were damaged. 
Police said they had confirmed 13 deaths in Saturday's violence, including five rioters shot by police. There were unconfirmed reports of hundreds dm1d but by 

ROME PROGRAM 
INFORMATION MEETING 
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 17, 2001 
5:00 PM 138 DEBARTOLO 
International Study Programs: http://www.nd.edu/-intlstud Rome On-line Application Deadline: December 1, 2001 (for academic year, fall & spring semesters) 

after Friday's anti-U.S. protests. Police made more than 100 arrests. 
"It is unemployed youths, both Muslim and Christian, vvho arc causing all the trouble," said Abdul Kadir, a university stu­dent. 
But witnesses told of groups of Christian and Muslim rioters yelling religious slogans as they attacked and chased bystanders believed to be of another faith. Some Muslim rioters carried posters of Osama bin Laden, the prime suspect in the Sept. 11 attacks on the \'Vorld Trade Center and the Pentagon. 
On Sunday, bin Laden posters could still be seen pinned up on walls and buildings around the city. Somr taxis also bore stick­ers of bin Laden's face. 
Government officials often deny the religious basis of fight­ing to avoid fueling further vio­lence in Nigeria, \-vhich is divided between a largely Muslim north and Christian south. 
The violence is just the latest in a cycle of bloodletting since a dozen northern states, including Kano, began introducing Islamic law, or Shariah, last year. Islamic courts in these states have ordered the hands of thieves amputated and several women and girls have been pub­licly flogged for alleged sexual indiscretions. 
We're not like every other high-tech company. We're hiring. 
No one told you the hardest part of being an engineer would be finding your first job. Of course. its still possible to get the high-tech work you want by joining the U.S. Air Force. You can leverage your degree immediately and get hands-on experience with some of the most sophisticated technology on earth; To find out how to get your career off 

Sunday no bodies were visible on the strents. Hospitals rnfused to admit journalists and gave no casualty figures. 
Kano's state government, anx­ious to play down the violence, dismissed the reports. 
"To say hundreds is an exag­geration," said government spokesman Ibrahim Gwagwarwa. 
Some Muslims vowed more protests against the U.S.-led airstrikes on Afghanistan. 
"As long as George Bush con­tinues to drop bombs on Afghanistan, then we Muslims in 
Nigeria will protest," said Bilyaminu Muhammad, a 38­virnr-old who hurriedlv disman­t!PCI his roadside barbe~'.UC chick­en stand Friday in anticipation of violence. 
Yet most residents expressed dismay at the fighting, saying they feared relations betvveen Christian and Muslims in the largest city in northern Nigeria had been seriously damaged. 
"I just pray for the fighting to stop," said Tony Sojay. an employee at St. George's Anglican Church who saw a mob stab a man to death outside his church. 
Government otlicials and some residents blamed the fighting on thugs, not religious tensions. They said people began looting stores and homes immediately 
the ground, call 1-800-423-USAF or visit our Web site at airforce.com. 
INDIA 

Prime Minister calls
\.,/ 

for end to terrorism
•:.• 
U.S. AIR POIIC¦ 
Associated Press 

AGRA 
Calling terrorism an enemy of humanity, India's Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee
'YO'll ''I/£ S'E/E'J..[ 

called Sunday for a global campaign to rid the world of
'£1{'£ (jOL'IJ'E'J..['DOM'E... 

the scourge. "Ever.yone accepts that ter­rorism is the enemy of
'J..[O'W COM'£ S'E'E 'IH'E 1(0~O'J.,['E! 
humanity. We have to 

ple were killed in a suicide bombing outside the state leg­islature in Srinagar, the state's capital. 
A Pakistan-based terrorist group, Jaish-e-Mohammed claimed -then denied ­responsibility for the bomb­ing. 
In a telephone call to Vaj payee Iast week, Pakistan's President Pervez Musharraf condemned 
finish off ..We have to fight the the terrorist 
terrorism by 

propaganda war. We attack in 
attacking 
Srinagar

not just its have to acknowledge that 
and the symbols but terrorism has no killing of also its 
religion,. innocent
roots," 
civilians. 
Vajpayee 

"Now even told a crowd Atal Bihari Vajpayee the rulers in of nearly 
Indian prime minister Pakistan 
50,000 members of his Bhartiya Janata Party's youth wing in Agra, home of the Taj Mahal. 
He noted that India had found scant sympathy internationally for its decade­long fight against fighting ter­rorist activity in Jammu­Kashmir, India's only pre­dominantly Muslim state. 
"But since the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11 on New York and Washington, the world had taken notice of the immense danger posed by ter­rorist groups," Vajpayee said. 
India and neighbor Pakistan have fought two of its three wars over the Himalayan region of Kashmir, and more than a dozen militant Muslim groups are fighting India for a separate Jammu-Kashmir state or its merger with Pakistan. 
Earlier this month, 40 peo­
have started 

accepting that killing of people in Jammu-Kashmir is terror­ism," Vajpayee said. 
India accuses Pakistan of training, arming and financ­ing the militant groups. Pakistan denies· the charge, describing the militants as freedom fighters whom Islamabad supports morally and diplomatically. 
Vajpayee said his govern­ment is determined not to let tension build up in the coun­try in the aftermath of U.S.­led airstrikes on Afghanistan to root out terror suspect Osama bin Laden. 
"Some people are trying to foment trouble in India taking advantage of events in Afghanistan," he said. "\,Ve have to fight the propaganda war. We have to acknowledge that terrorism has no reli­gion." 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 8 Monday, October 15, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
l'.O. !:lox Q. Notre O.une. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame. IN 465'i6 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
~tike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Pat Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadter SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Mvra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAi. lNF0..............631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF.......................................631-4 542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 

VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SPORTS..................................................,.....631-4543 observer.spons. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4 540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updares ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns. as wd! as carroons, reviews and breaking news from rhe A~sociaced Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasrs 
weekly smdent reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rares of prim ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
ro meet the editors and 
August 1999 
sraff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofche Universiry ofNorre Dame du L1c and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advenisemems, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves rhe right to refuse advertisemencs based on concern. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of rhe majority of rhe Editor in Chid~ Managing Edicor, A'i.~istant Managing Edicor and department editors. Commenraries, leuers and columns present rhe views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lerrers is encouraged. Letters to ,he Ediror must be signed and musr include contact information. 
Quemnns regtZrding Ohser11er policirs should be direct­ed to Editor in C'hief Mike Connolly. 
OutreachND deserves recognition 
Notre Dame will never be a family so long as injustice divides us. Many injus­tices tear at the fabric of our community, but one of the most hurtful is the University's discrimination against gays, lesbians and bisexu­
als. 
At our University, gay, lesbian and bisexual students operate on the fringes of' acceptance. In good times, they are welcomed by the Standing 

Committee for Gay 
Aaron Kreider
and Lesbian Student Needs, Campus Ministries, 
Think. 
student government 
Question,
and their fellow stu­
Resist
dents. However, they also face dis­crimination, harassment and must live knowing that their own activities could be censored at any time. This is because despite more than 20 years of unofficial existence, the University still refuses to recognize the student-run gay, lesbian and bisexual group, OutreachND and refuses to include sexual orientation in our non-discrimination clause. 
Even ifyou have been here several years, you should be just as outraged as the first time you heard about this injus­tice. 
I believe the administration's primary reason for not granting the group club status is that they believe that in the future one or more members of OutreachND may advocate views that contradict the teachings of the Church. Unfortunately the administration is mak­ing a terrible mistake since the acts of individual group members do not repre­

sent the vievvs oftheir organization, . national news stories, (~mbarrassing the unless the group's leadership claims they University. until OutreachND is n~cog­do. For instancn, I advocate radical politi­nized. cal views (many of which conflict On campus, students and faculty 
are overwhelmingly in support with. ~hose of ~h.e Church) thnat••··..·:;.;,:;;,....·.·"-..·.."•··..•-...·...
are different from those of ,l' l 1 ·• of recognition. The campus most members of the ·t ·~J .,o gay rights movements in 
:•~· -'t. .:•·· 
Progressive Student ·• ;l\\'. 9~ . the springs of 1995 and Allic_m~e (PS,~) or .Pax . • ! l \ \ ·~ 1997, and !998/1999 
Chnst1. I loldmg either ~.J,J;1 
of these_groups .· .• 'tt·. °" 'jresponsible for my • ffl:•' 
«-0• were particularly ~ strong. For most or \ our community, it is 


views would not be obvious that discrim­fair. As organiza­ination is wrong and tions, OutreachND, we show no sign of the PSA and Pax changing our minds. Christi do not con­If the administra­done anyone violat­tion wants to act to ing the Church's heal this divide in the teachings and that is Notre Dame family, it how they should be does not have to judged. spend millions of dol-
Secondly, the admin­lars on a new initiative 
istration may believe that \ or~ead into uncharted it offers sufficient services territory. It simply needs to to gay, lesbian and bisexual 
no need for a student-run club. The fact that OutreachND has existed for over 20 years shows the truth that Notre Dame is far from providing adequate · support for gay, lesbian and bisexual stu­dents. In fact, many of its gay. lesbian and bisexual programs rely upon OutreachND members to organize events, though the University refuses to share the credit. 
Thirdly, I suspect that the primary unstated reason for not recognizing OutreachND is that the decision would be unpopular with conservative donors. In this case, the University is again mistak­en, as it loses more donations in the end with its current approach. Campus gay rights activism will continue to make 
and universities in the United States by r,~cognizing a student-run gay, lesbian and bisexual group. 
Unfortunately, for reasons that contin­ue to baffie most students, the University will not take this action until it is con­fronted by an active student body demanding justice. If you disagree with the administration's decision, now is the timH to come out and say so. 
Aaron Kreider is a graduate student in lhe sociology department. Ile can be reached at kreider. l@nd.edu. His column appears el'ery other l\,1onday. 
11ie views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Game attire should unite us 
For manyyears, the students and alumni of the University 
have collaborated on the design of ''The Shirt," a simple arti­
cle of clothing which, when worn by the members 
of the student section, presents a unified block 
of support in the northwest corner of Notre 
Dame Stadium. I had the opportunity to 
observe the student section during the 
Michigan State game and the sea of 
navy blue was truly an impressive 
sight. We pay for The Shirt as a sign 
of support for our team, and we 
wear it proudly to assure the team ,, ::, ,1,.. ·,, that we stand behind them. ,y• l~·i/ I am dismayed, therefore, with e-\()/ 
mails and voicemails I have received in -~ 
recent weeks urging me to wear a differ-"-,, 
ent color to the game in support of a given 
cause. At Michigan State, I was asked to wear 
blue for Notre Dame solidarity, yellow for the cause 
of peace and red for the student money collection effort. 

gle cause if multiple options arc presented? \Vhat are we, th<i "Primary Colors Student Section"? A nationally televised football game is a great place to make a public statement, and I 

.

1 ---applaud the organizers of these mobiliza­.?'.\i·".;/:4& •.,•,··, lion c!forts for trying t~> capture ~ large
...:,·:·..... ..

,.;.·.~.· ••..·.~ ·
....•. ·.·.·~ ... ···'.·.

1,.-<..;;?"':¥-" audience. However, m advocatmg sep­
. ' ... ·· aratc agendas we reduce the effoc­
~-· ·.-~"""'"'~-. tivcness of all of tlrnm and end up ~ ',;.-~~:· ;~ saying nothing. I suggest that those 'z> who wish to gain student support< devise a more crnativo method of . showing unity -perhaps ribbons, a chant at halftime. paint,~d faces or colored hair -and leaw~ The Shirt alorn~. At the football games, we unite as a student body behind our tnam. I .et' s make sure that the world (and our opponent) knows that. 
This week, I was urged to wear white to promote the elimina­Brendan P. Harris tion of rape. I wholeheartedly support all or these causes -senior how do I choose one over the others? More importantly, how is Alumni Hall the student body supposed to show its unified support for a sin-Ocr. 15. 2001 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 

Myra McGriff Kelly Hager Jason McFarley Kevin Suhanic 
Sports 
Katie McVoy 
Viewpoint 

Kurt Bogaard 
Scene 
C. Spencer Beggs 
Graphics 
Katie McKenna 
Production 
Chris Federico 
Lab Tech 
Peter 
Richardson 
POLL RESULT QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"Who controls the past now, controls the 
70%
. Is the administration unfair 

future. Who controls the present now. 
to OutreachND by not Yes 

controls the past. " 
giving the organization official club status? 

George Orwell writer
• 


O
THE 
BSERVER 

Monday, October 15, 200 I page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Student requests business news 
I vvould like to begin by saying that in my opinion Tlw Observer is one of the better run college papt1rs that I have come across. The layout works well and for tlrn most part the articles arc well written, and that is some­thing that many schools cannot boast about their respPctive papers. 
JIO\vcvcr, I think that a business section would be a fantastic addition because it would continue to broaden the scope of your auditrncc~ and help make the paper even more complete. The business world effects everyone because it shapes the economy and therefore dPserves to be reported on in our nmvspaper. There is so much new informa­tion that develops everyday, so fillirig a col­umn or page with interesting rn~ws would def'iniwly not lw a problem. 
Furthermore, graduating sm1iors looking for jobs in such a tight market vvould greatly apprPciate being able to keep up any new developments that might enable them to gain the competitive edge over graduates from other schools. Adding a business section can only add to the quality of the paper, and I hope that you honor the requests of the stu­dents searching for more complete knowl­edge about their environment. 
Joe Wyss 
sophomore Stanford Hall 0cc. 5.2001 

Right to life not about abortion 
Last week must have been Hight to Life Weck. Unfortunately, I got the impression that it was any­thing but. I believe it was Monday morning of last week when I was greeted by hundreds of white crosses stick­ing out of the ground on the Saint Mary's green. 
At first, I wondered if perhaps they had something to do with the recent 6,000 innocent American civilian deaths, or maybe they were there to pay tribute to mil­itary heroes, since what I saw before me resembled a miniature version of Arlington Cemetery. 
I could not have been further from the truth. These crosses were to signify the babies that are aborted each year in the United States. A banner explained the presence of these crosses with: America kills twice the population of Saint Mary's each year. 
As a student presently calling Saint Mary's College my home, I was bothered and not a little shocked. The abortion issue is a highly debated, uncompromising issue. Yet no one ever speaks about the issue of Right to Lifers who bomb abortion clinics, killing people in the name of life, in the name of God. Why does it not occur to them that they are killing mothers, wives, aunties, daddies and brothers who may be the sole support for an entire family or for their aging parents'? 
Especially recently, it seems so simple for the aver­age American Christian to point the finger at Muslims, calling their religion tainted, corrupted or even just plain all wrong. Are we choosing to forget the cru­sades, the selling of indulgences and some of the real reasons for traditions in the Catholic Church? Jesus was a simple man with straightforward messages. I feel like I often receive complicated mixed messages in this higher education environment, and even in the homilies of my small-town priests. Just last weekend, before the beginning of Right to Life week, I was at home with my parents for Church. The priest began talking about abortion with his story about a bumper sticker that said, "Choose Life. Your parents did." I found it interesting, that in this time of what should be national cohesion, a time of inner compassion and 

strength, we could to talk about issues that further 
divide people and manage to act as if the world isn't 
changing around us. Yes, we all may not be directly 
affected, and no, I don't advocate constant worry and 
fear and morbidity. 
On another note, I found it even more interesting that the priest seemed to think he could talk about the abortion issue as if he could ever on God's green earth fully experience it and all its implications and conse­quences. 
Why is it tlrnn whenever people talk about the abomi­nation of abortion, they never counter it with a "Well, I know I have two tests this week, but maybe we should go volunteer our time at the local women's shelter," or "Let's donate this month's paycheck to Birthright?" Rather than lamenting about what is done and gone, let us pour our energy into supporting those women who have chosen life, that need help, that need time, that need money. There is no progress in idle talk. 
Put yourself in the place of a young Saint Mary's College woman, attempting to let go of her past, attempting to come to grips with decisions she has made or was forced to make by parents or advised to make by her doctor. Perhaps she was a rape victim, and on her way to class this is what stares her in the face, as if it wasn't already on her mind every second. This is her home, too. She should be able to feel at home, feel safe and feel worthy. 
Furthermore, in light of recent events, perhaps Right to Life week should've been celebrated in a different context. Perhaps the focus should have been on the heroism and undying hope of the New York volunteer workers determined to uncover and sustain the American right to life and freedom. 
Natalie Hock Regina South Hall Oct. 12,2001 

Understanding the stained-glass, wafer wonders 
Notre Dame is a Catholic institution. Tlrnre's a crucifix in every classroom, weekly masses in every residence hall, there's 1wPn a portrait of the Last Supper in South Dining Hall. You can't eVf'n swing your arms without hitting 
Amy Schill 

sonrnonn with ttw letters CSC follow­ing his name 
Dazed and

(bclievl' nw, l'vP 
Amused

tried and I have the assault charges to prove it). 
Most students here arc Catholic but some arc not. Before coming to Notre 
. Dame. I had more experience with the latter than with the former. In fact, I didn't have much experience with believers of' any sort in high school. I encountered many atheists, along with the trendiest of all the religious perspec­tives, the agnostics. Not only do these people not believe in God, but some of them don't even like football. When not sipping coffeo or attending poetry slams, thcst' people participatt~ in their next favorite hobby -bashing Catholicism. 
Well. like most of the people in this school, I am Catholic. My fellow Catholics here already know that our religion is where it's at but I would like to take a few moments to talk to the rest of' you. I think most problems people have with Catholicism stems from mis­understandings. I'm writing to clear up some common misconceptions about the stained-glass wafer wonders. After reading this column you'll understand that 85 percent of the Notre Dame stu­dent body is not just Catholic, they're Catholicious. 
Yum. 0.K. First off, for some reason people think Catholics worship statues. Not true. Catholics worship one thing and one thing only: Notre Dame football. Every Saturday afternoon during foot­ball season the Fighting Irish honor God by beating thl-~ir oppo­nent senseless (or try­ing to anyway) in full view of our Savior, Touchdown Jesus. vVe do have statues in churches to remind us of religious figures such as Jesus, Mary, Joseph and Knute Hockne, but these are merely symbols of what we are praying to, not the actual deity. 
Next complaint. Many people think the Catholic Church is too strict and rigid. Let's get one thing straight. We're the Church of the new millennium, baby, and we're ready to get down with our repressed selves. from now on only 98 percent of all our desires will be sup­pressed and the con­stant feeling of guilt that plagues our souls with every miniscule sin will be relieved every fall Saturday afternoon from 1 :30 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. Think Catholics shy away from contact with other human beings? Well, no more. We will now go wild with sudden outbursts of hugging and affection 

(before parietals of course). These acts of warm, human compassion will no longer be accompanied by the usual guilt of not having produced children (if done on Saturday between the hours 

1 :30 p.m. and 5:30 p.m., times may vary due to holy days, bowl games (hey, maybe someday ...J etc.). Watch out kids, because we're here, we hate queers, get used to it! 
Which brings me to my next point. Catholics have the bad reputation of hating homosexuals. The truth is we hate only the really bad ones. You know, those flamboyant Birdcage types with their keen sense of fashion and desire to advertise in The Observer. Conservative homo­sexuals with wives and children are fine. All homosexual tendencies should be suppressed except for during dorm par­ties, and the occa­
sional butt-slapping and holding of 
hands during Notre Dame football 

games. All lesbians are bad. It baffies me that all you pot-smoking 
hippie liberal bums think Catholics are 
too judgmental. My job as a Catholic is not to condemn others. My job as a Catholic is to be morally superior to all of you hell-bound sinners. A good Catholic does not condemn the Boston College fan, but merely tries to set a good example and show the misguided football enthusiast that Notre Dame has the one true football team. Other foot­ball teams have their good points, but Notre Dame is the only team that pos­sesses the fullness of truth. And the Jruth always lies somewhere in the mid­dle, up the middle, on every play. 

The Catholic Church believes that all humans (except liberals, those without firm wrists and women) are equal. If you think otherwise, maybe you're the judgmental one. 
Finally, I think the most painfully false view of Catholicism is that it is not a religion at all, but merely a collection of meaningless chants and rituals. Nothing could be further from reality. I truly believe in God, the Father Almighty, Creator of heaven and earth; cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame, wake up the echoes cheering her name ... Amen. 
I hope that this little column has ended any derogatory thoughts some of you heretics have about the Catholic Church. If you still have doubts, I'll make it simple for you: we own a lot of art, our leader wears that cool hat, and the Vatican is one sweet piece of real estate. Case closed. Go Irish. 
Amy Schill is a junior English major. Iler column appears every other Monday. She can be contacted at schill­thethrill@yahoo.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 10 
Monday, October 15, 2001 
' 

Nannies, nobility and new languages in 30 days 
Sylvie speaks French, Italian, Vietnamese and English fluently, which isn't too shabby considering she was born and rais•~d in Albania. Diona and Julia burst into Hussian for conversations that they don't want anyone else to understand, and Diona also knows Arabic, having spent the second half of her childhood in Egypt. Depending on which side of the family he's talking to, Carlos's rapid-fire cell phone conversations alternate between Spanish and Portuguese. And I often have to forgive Ting's confusion with my American slang since she only learned English after moving from Japan five years ago. 
In our program of 60 students (all of whom spend their days speaking French), we have native speakers of Polish and Romanian, Chinese and Japanese. Born into multi-lin­gual families, many of these kids have had the advantage of learning several different mother tongues. Since many of them also have parents in the Foreign Service, they've lived everywhere from Senegal to Peru to the Ivory Coast. and they've picked up more than a few words and phrases on the way. 
Not only am I amazed at my classmates' ability to switch between languages mid-sentence, I'm also jealous. Learning a language as a child is so much easier than struggling with a dictionary and Berlitz tapes as an adult. Judging by how effortlessly my friends pick up new lan­guages, it seems that once you can speak two or three fluently. the fourth, fifth and sixth slide right in without a second thought. 
My amazement of these language gurus {and my envy of their global addresses) makes me hope that I'll be able to raise my children to speak another language besides English. 
While wandering around a chateau on a field trip, my friend Nakima and I schemed up a game-plan to ensure having tri-lingual children all while living in a nice shack like the one we were touring: marry into the old French nobility and get a Spanish or German-speaking nanny. Granted, it may not happen -we have yet to stumble upon a count in our favorite cafes -but exposing children to many languages is still an advantage that many European parents consider a necessity. 
A bulletin board in our school's lobby is plastered with ads for English-speak­ing baby-sitters. Many parents want to expose their children to English at an early age, to give them a boost in their studies once they reach school-age and they recognize that contact with native speakers is the best way to do it. Some take this notion to an extreme, though. 
A friend of mine applied for one such job and found herself stuck in a bizarre language experiment. According to his parent's rules, the two year-old boy she watches must speak English with her, French with his father, German with his mother and Spanish with the cook. Clearly an extreme case. but the boy will probably grow up with a great knack for language, despite some strange views on familial communication. 
All these thoughts of brilliant, multi-lingual children are at the front of my mind this week due to the arrival of my niece Aisling, sure to be much more "infernationally chic" than her aunt since she can already boast being born in 
i 
London and not Flint, Michigan. Even though she'll probably be back in the 
I 
States before her vocabulary is peppered with words like "mum" and "loo," I've I already bought her a French book in the hopes that she'll pick up another lan­
I 
J. guage while she's still young.
I 
The studies on how easily children learn languages are amazing, and consider­ing hov,: fresh their developing minds arc, it's no wonder those little synapses can pick up so much. The baby next to Aisling in the nursery has parents of French and German origin, and the room sometimes sounds like a United Nations conference hall when all tlw different families are cooing over their little ones. 
I envy those babies in a way, because they will absorb so easily the languages that I'm struggling to learn evnry day. Thn way the world seems to work, Aisling could grow up to speak more languages than I could ever hope to know and her mind will be all the richer for it. Like Louis Armstrong croons. "I hear babies cry / I watch them grow/ Thny'll lflarn much more than I'll twer know." 
And if' all else fails, slw could always hunt for a French duke as a fallback. 
The opinions expressing in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Obserl'er. · 
Laura Kelly is a junior Hnglish and French major..\'he might not knou• Russian or Japarll'S<', hut_ after thre,• years of high school Spanish, she can ask for "cen'esas" and "el haiio," tl'hich is all she really needs. She can lw reached at lkelly@nd. eclu. French Connection appears Atondays in Scene. 





Benedict and Smith organi 
(among other things) dealing with 
By C. SPENCER BEGGS 

fate. "Olympic Moments" has Scene Editor 
recently been picked up for publi­
cation this winter by the Vermont 
When the tragic events Sept. 11 Literary Review, an annual literary occurred, relief efforts around the review that is published by country mounted a massive cam­Castleton State CollegfL The paign to help those in need in New Vermont Literary Heview publishes York and Washington. poetry from and about New Unfortunately, in the rush to get England. food, blood "Olympic and medical Moments" is assistance one of to the vic­"/ think it·s important to think Benedict's tims of the newest
about him as not just what he 
attacks and works. lie
was. but who he was. as my
their fami­has three lies, area brother. And people like him are stories that 
charitable someone's brother, someone's son. will be pub­organiza­lished in thn
someone·s daughter. So. my try­
tions and next eight 
food banks ing to do something for the Food months in found that Bank ofNorthern Indiana is my two reviews 
t h e i r and an
thanks to the people around the 
resources online jour­
were dan­country who helped him or tried nal, his first 
gerously to help him in the course ofhis foray into low. When digital pub-
life."
Professor 1 is hi n g. Matthew Previously, Benedict, Matthew Benedict Benedict has assistant to Reading and Food Drive Organizer published his 
the chair of 
the depart­
ment of 
English, saw 

a news story that the Northern 
Indiana Food Bank was dangerous­
ly low in resources he decided to do 
something. · "I thought, it's time to do some­
thing to help the community here in 
South Bend," Benedict said. 

Benedict decided to organize a literary event on campus to benefit the food bank. He and visiting pro­fessor Mike Smith, assistant direc­tor of creating writing in the department of English, will hold a joint reading of some of their works in the LaFortune Student Center ballroom Wednesday at 7 p.m. Attendees are asked to bring non­perishable food items and personal care products to donate. 
The food drive has personal sen­timents to Benedict as well. Food banks and charitable organizations played an important role in the life of his older brother Bobby, who died a few years ago. Benedict feels that participating in the reading is a way of thanking people \.vho helped Bobby as well as honoring his memory. 
"I think it's important to think about him as not just vvhat he was, but who he was, as my brother. And people like him are someone's brotlH~r. sonrnone's son. someone's daughter. So. my trying to do some­thing for the Food Bank of Northern Indiana is my thanks to the people around the country who helped him or trit~d to lwlp him in the coursP of his lifo." Bnnedict said. 
Benedict \Viii lw reading his short story "Olympic !\:lonrnnts," about 
writing in the I( a m I i n e Journal, The Byline, 

Sgraffito and Potpourri. He is also a contributing editor to The Notre Dame Review. 
Besides being a 
working writer, Benedict also teaches Fiction Writing at the U n i v e r s i t y ·. Interestingly enctugh, Benedict was also a student at Notre Dame. Benedict was a member of the fifth graduate class of the Creative Writing Program. Ile received his M.A. in English from the University in 1994 and has been teaching classPs sinc(1 1993. 
Benedict helps orga­nizc the eight to IO literary events that take place on campus each year. lie foels that bringing students in contact with profos­sio na l writers is an important aspnct of becoming a writPr. 
"It's a way for stu­dents not to just read work, or even work­shop it in classroom, but also to sen work­ing 'ATitPrs and int,•r­act with working \\Til­e rs ltol ask tlwm questions: how they approach their crart, 


how thPy hand!,, 
Professor Matthew

problt>ms, lorl pub­
nized a literary read 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Monday, October 15, 2001 
page 11 



'ze reading to benefit the Food Bank ofNorthern Indiana 
lishing," lfonedict said. 
Smith, who will read some of his original poetry, was invited by B1~nedict to sham the spotlight. Smith will mad s1wcn poems both published and unpublished including: "Anagramic Ode to limily Dickinson," which is an anagram in three of Emily Dickinson poems, No. 241, No. 441 and No 4 7 5, rearranged to form a new 
and the Creative Writing Program, which is a rising start in the world of academia. The 12 year~old program has had recent student James Ellis Tomas' first published short story printed in the New Yorker as well as alumni Michael Collins' novel The Keepers of Truth shortlisted for the 2000 Booker Prize, Europe and Canada's answer to the Pulitzer. 

poem. No letters are left out and none have been added left out none add. "Anagramic Ode to Emily Dickinson" was featured in the literary magazine Samizdat and The Possibility of Language, an anthology of work by peo­ple who have a connection to Notre Dame. 
Smith will also read "Tips for a Traveler in the Land of Giants," which was 
published in Faultline, and "Lessons in Gravity." Smith has been writing poetry for eight years since h •~ was a s e n i or at th e University of North 
Reading and Food Drive 
. 
Professor Matthew Bebedict and Mike Smith 

. 
Lafortune Ballroom 

. 
7 p.m. Wednesday. 


. Bring donations of non-perishable food 
items and personal care 
products. 


Carolina Greensborough. He received his master's degree from Hollins College and describes his style as ccl(~ctic. 
'Tm sort of all over tlw place. About onn out of nine of my poems is in some sort of rnrognizablc form." Smith said. 
The reading/food drive is co-spon­sored by th,~ Department of English 
But Benedict says that Wednesday is not about the gaining notoriety for Notre Dame's Creative Writing Program but about community awareness. 
"l think events like this need to happen more on campus. There needs to be awareness that while we're lat Notre Dame] and we interact with each other, we also have to interact with the world around us. And South Bend has its needs and I think bringing the two together for an event like this able to show the com­munity that we're not just 
here as an isolated little entity .... that we actually do care and there are peo­ple that do care what happens and recognize that being a member of a community means going outside one's immediate community," Benedict said. 
Contact C. Spencer Beggs at beggs.3@nd.edu. 


AMANDA HUGHES/The Observer 

_Benedict at his "writing desk." Benedict and visiting professor Mike Smith orga­hng and food drive for the Food Bank of Northern Indiana this Wednesday evening. 
t. Or y~;,· .rhaP~~ ttwa:~w .·•.··~· <van1oxi> .. .'./ack O;a.... trio ...like menopa . ,> brings wts·g,tHni Orat lea~ \··••· orn~nts of Clatitino,For Andromed~•..cassiopeiafU.~J~11 of Ttoy. an(,!JpeJ'leiades, 01ymp1c Moments. \Vhen die curvature ofthei\Jtniverse becornes,tfoffone. brief transit, direct 
and nnite.~it<. . .. i '.ff . . . >J?tt >· <· ·.· , > ·•· ... ·... ··. . · 
Or. m~y'b~rit wastShift }'ye seen· all .this b~fore}'Why me?. we .ask. Whyme? l n!i:V!tr/thoughtthl$wQu1d happen to m.~l1tsrc 
But it(loar Oh ho)'. itdriesf %Vi . 


Excerpt of ~'Lessons In Gravity,. by Mike Smith. 
' 
Markthe willow tree, supplicant, 

for th~re'$heautyin,IJ.enging .. There's grace
in the dan:ce ()f .~ sinking stone, .· 
the waterfaU's ~onstantsacriflce, 

lover's collapse. Markthe drunk's 
pirouette in a matronly bog. 
The sky is falling, he says, and 
no goose can tell him different. 

The world's a geode, he says. each is 
his own black hole. And that's the gag: 
the spirit weighs the body dovvn. 

l 
1 
I • I 
~ l 
I I ' I 
I
' 
I 
! 
! i ~ 
i ! 
Monday, October 15, 200 I 
page 12 The Observer . SPORTS 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Yankees tie series with 9-2 ~ictory against Ns 
relics of a passing era, mere This isn't new territory for the Chicago Cubs again, Suzuki possibly their worst game all 
Associated Press 

shadows of their once-mighty two teams. Last year, the delivered a go-ahead HBI single season in Game 3 on Saturday. selves. Athletics beat Clemens on the and baseball's best team this "We got our butts kicked," snc­OAKLAND, Calif. 
But with two gutsy wins at the road in Game 4, sending their season got the biggest of its 118 ond baseman Bret Boone said.
The New York Yankees calmly Coliseum -where Oakland had first-round series back to wins. "But remember. I said this tnam

boarded a plane on Sunday night . d ..
won 17 straight -the three­Oakland. The Yankees built a big Suzuki's hit highlighted a 1s rea y.
for another cross-country flight time World Series champs lead and hung on for a 7-5 victo­three-run, seventh-inning rally Freddy Garcia ( 1-1) pitched 6 to another playoff showdown. 

earned a trip back to Yankee ry. After hanging on for a 1-0 as Seattle, which won 116 games 1-3 innings for the win. 
For any other baseball team, it Stadium for a deciding game win on Saturday night, New York during the regular season, avoid­Jamie Moyer, who beat thewould have been a thrilling jour­Monday night. Roger Clemens had no problem evening the ed the same fate as the '06 Cubs Indians in Game 2 and went 2-0 

ney to a game almost nobody 

will face Mark Mulder in a series on a balmy California -the team whose wins record against them in the regular sea­thought would be played. 
rematch of the opener. afternoon. The Yankees were the Mariners matched. Chicago son, will start Game 5 for the
But these are the Yankees. 

"Surprised? I guess I can't be," bailed by the A's starters in the did not win a World Series title Mariners on Monday at SafecoThere is no postseason territory Yankees manager Joe Torre series' first three games, but that year. Field against Chuck Finley. 
over which they haven't soared said. "We've done a lot of things they chased Cory Lidie in the T h e ''I'm elatedbefore. 

in the last six years that make fourth inning. Mariners about gettingBernie Williams drove in five 
me proud, and this certainly came back to pitch in a 
runs as the Yankees tied their AL "ft was down to nine 
goes up there among the proud• against fifth game,"
division series with the Oakland Mariners 6, Indians 2 

est (moments)." Bartolo Colon outs. There was no said Finley,
Athletics at two games each with Nine outs away from having all 

The day was disastrous for the (1-1). who tension. It was just a who waited 
a 9-2 victory. those wins and records over­

young A's, who lost their fourth shut them out · 15 years to
Playing with poise and pride shadowed by failure, the Seattle matter ofswinging the
straight home playoff game to for eight make his first 
on the brink of postseason elimi­Mariners simply wouldn't let 

bats ... 
the Yankees. · innings in postseason
nation, Williams and New York their special season end.

What's more, cleanup hitter Game 1 and start in Game
finished two days in Oakland They didn't panic. Instead,

Jermaine Dye broke his leg on a blanked them 2 and gave up 
with two wil)s -and afterward, they did whatever it took. Mike Cameron
foul ball in the third inning and for the first six a pair of two­
nobody in a New York uniform And won again. Mariners outfielder
was lost for the rest of the post­Sunday after a run homers in
would admit to even an ounce of Rookie lchfro Suzuki provided 

season. 2-hour, 20-the first. "I
surprise. the key hit and the Mariners

Dye will be in a cast for 8-to-12 minute rain started think­
"We were all aware of the situ­staved off an early postseason

weeks, Oakland trainer Larry delay. ing about that after Game 2. I
ation," Williams said. "There exit rallying for a win over the

Davis said. Though the A's pro­"We battled back from adversi­had the feeling we might be back 
was no sense in rubbing it in. We Cleveland Indians to force a deci­

fessed the same professional ty all season," Mariners manager in Seattle anyway." 
knew we were down two games sive Game 5 back in Seattle. 

indifference as the Yankees, it Lou Piniella said. "We weren't Before Game 4, a relaxed
to one, and it was a must-win sit­"It was down to nine outs," 

was clear which team was under going to lose because of the pres­Piniella was confident his team
uation ... but you don't want to outfielder Mike Cameron said.

the most pressure. sure. We were going to lose would go home to play another
be pins and needles out there." "There was no tension. It was

"I don't think our spirits are because the other team out­day.
After the A's won the AL divi­just a matter of swinging the

down at all," Jason Giambi said. played us." "We have to take that long ridf~
sion series' first two games in bats, and waiting for that one

"The biggest thing is we're going Suzuki went 3-for-5 and Edgar back to Seattle." Piniella said.
New York, the three-time cham­break." 

to Game 5. We have our big gun Martinez hit a two-run homer in "So we may as well make
pions seemed doomed. Age, Take a deep breath, Seattle. 

on the hill. As far as I'm con­the ninth for the Mariners. who Cleveland take the same plane
inconsistency and the energetic Just when it looked like the

cerned, we're starting fresh." were blown out 17-2 and played ride."
A's made the Yankees look like Mariners would tie the 1906 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.rn. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 
024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.rn. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhc right co edit
CLASSIFIEDS 

all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
LOOKING FOR A ROOMMATE TO BLACK FEMALE SEEKING SAME WANTED: SPRING BREAKERS! Fraternities*Sororities*Clubs*Stude SHARE A 2-BDRM APT IN TUR-FOR ROOMMATE. CASTLE PT. Sun Coast Vacations wants to send nt Groups TLE CREEK FOR 2ND SEMES-$350 + DEPOSIT. 271-7195. you on Spring Break to Cancun, the Earn $1,000-$2,000 this semester
LOST AND FOUND TICKETS 

TEA Bahamas, Jamaica or Mazatlan with the easy CALL HILLIARY 243-1840 OR FOR FREE! To find out how, call 1-campusfundraiser.com three hour EMAIL HBURN@ND.EDU BUY-SELL 888-777-4642 or email: sales@sun-fundraising event. Does not involve
FOR SALE

IF YOU LOST A COWBOY HAT AT ND FOOTBALL TICKETS coastvacations.com credit card applications. LAFAYETTE ON FRI. CALL 246· ROOMS AVAILABLE AT THE 277-6619 or 273-3911 Fundraising dates are filling quickly, 9313 SOUTH BEND MARRIOTT For sale: '97 Ford Taurus. Spring Break Insanity! so eall today' Contact campus-
NOVEMBER 15-18, NOTRE DAME Excellent condition. Power locks, NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TIX WWW.INTER-CAMPUS.COM or fundraiser.com at 888 923-3238. or VS. NAVY WEEKEND. ROOMS steering, ale. $6,300 O/B/O FOR SALE call 1-800-327-6013 visit www.campusfundraiser.com BLOCKED FOR AN ND CONFER­ENCE, EXTRAS AVAILABLE. FOR A.M. 232-2378 Guaranteed lowest prices! All desti-Hey Dexter's Girl ­
FOR RENT 

MORE INFORMATION PLEASE 1-616-663-8422 P.M. 288-2726 nations' Fifteen years experience! He called here tonight. He loves CALL BARB HERB AT 312-243-Wanted: Representatives and orga-you. 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM-4244 {X4192) Nikon 6006 Camera Body. Recent ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED nizatoins, earn top $$$, build your PUS overhaul by Nikon. $300 Call 631 • resume Guys, the reason you should never mmmrentals.com Bed 'n Breakfast near ND for grad. 7818 A.M. -232-2378 read Shakespeare's sonnets to email: mmmrentals@aol.com weekend. Wild Irish Rose Inn. 219-P.M. -288-2726 SPRING BREAK PARTY! Indulge seduce women ... most of them are 
277-4303 www.irishroseinn.com Northsore Condo, 1428 Marigold in FREE Travel, Drinks, Food and written to me. Qt course, if you're 
way near ND, 1 bdr, 1 bath, LR, DR ND tickets for sale. Lowest prices. Parties with the Best DJs and into that sort of thing .... THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and & kitchen with appliances. 1 car 232-0964. celebrities in Cancun, Jamaica, Breakfast Inn has space available garage. $69,000. Mazatlan and the Bahamas. Go to Reason #666 that the Scene sec-for football/parent wknds. 5 rooms WANTED Call Doris at 254-1772 • WANTED • ND TICKETS StudentCity .com, call 1-800-293· tion is the best: our writers are will-with private baths, $80-$115, 289-9280 1443 or email ing to do anything, and I mean any-
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Wanted: Babysitter with own trans-Northshore Condo, 1428 Marigold sales@studentcity.com to find out thing, for our section. Toll Road Exit #107. 1-800-418· portation, for 1-2 children in our Way near ND, 1bdr, 1 bah, LR, DR Buying some/ Selling a few extra more. 9487 home, close to campus. Flexible & kitchen with appliances. 1 car N.D. Football Tickets. OK, it's on. 
hours. 277-1037 garage. $69,000. 219·289-8048. Spring Break with STS, America's 
3 br 2 ba ranch parklike yd all appl Call Doris at 254-1772 for more #1 Student Tour Operator. Mr. Smitham, Mr. Ludemann and $1200 mo patti grice century 21 The Coffee Spot Cafe on Bendix info. Promote trips on campus earn cash Mr. Delgado, for the record I simply Jim McDunfee near Cleveland Rd. Have 3 pair of USC tix. Need Tenn. and free trips. Info/Reservations stated facts last week. 
Part-time work available. Gorumet BMW 94 325i, 4dr, green, loaded, 1 Tix. Let's talk. 901-332-6735 1-800-648-4849 235-3062 Coffee Shop. owner, all records, $11,000 289-And then you had to go being Call 273-2931 4082 Need 1 Tennessee ticket Contact www.ststravel.com babies. 
Scott at 634-4946 For rent: remodeled 4-bdrm house. Babysitting 1,5, 7 yr. olds 12-15 Selling Varsity Club time share 1 $300-$800 Scholarships I did beat Mark at MarioKart. 3 blks. from ND. Garage avaH. 233-hours/wk soph. wk. $9,500 U2 TIX 1 FLOOR TICKET CHICA· Available per semester' 2104 flexible hrs GO OCT. 15 Looking for a job which lets you And just because you all are jeal-
BEST OFFER work around your school schedule? ous of my skill, you have to insult B&B 271-0766 272-1753 287-9342 We have several part-time and full-my state. 2-3 ROOMS HOME GAMES time day & evening positions paying 
2 Ml NO OF CAMPUS  In-home nanny needed to care tor  Fitty-five gallon fish tank ­solid oak  $7-$11/hr.  Babies. Babies. Babies.  
247-1124  infant on Monday and Wednesday  Cabinet ­all equipment ­presently  We offer the following:  
Lodging • Bed and Breakfast, 45  afternoons. Must have transporta· tion. Experience with infants and  set up for salt water fish. $1200 new• $300 or best offer.  PERSONAL  ·scholarship money ·Flexible Schedules  GO MAINE!  
minutes trom Notre Dame. T&R  references required. Contact Dr.  •Paid vacations/holidays  Kerry -remember, they hired me for  
INN Between the lakes.  Knoedler: 631-4264 or  SPRING BREAK  *Optional Saturdays  my looks!  
PH (616) 244-9084  aknoedler@nd.edu  631-6955 or after 6pm 272-6414  Largest selection of Spring Break  *Health/Life/401 (k)  
www.innbetweenthelakes.com  Destinations, including Cruises!  *Incentives/Raises  Lauren -there are some things  
Fun promotional jobs  Outgoing, energetic individual need  Rep Positions, Free Drinks and  *Supervisory/Mg!. Positions  roommates just shouldn't share.  
Nice homes next school year north  $10/hr to give away cool new prod- to babysit 2 children, 5 and 2, Fri.  Free trips available.  1-(888) 801-JOBS  
 
of ND. Great area.  ucts  eve. 10/19 and sat. during game  www. EpicuRRean.com  jobs@americallcorp.com  Hey Nubby -Why are your shoes  
277-3097  promogirl.com  10/20. Call 937 294 4857  1-800-231-4-FUN  Just minutes north of campus  bigger than your head?  

Monday, October I5, 200 I 
The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
Volleyball 
continued from page 20 
the ganw," Brown said. "\Vhen it got to a point when I real­ized that JaniP was going to 111HI up i n tlw fro n t row I im nwd ia tely thought, '\\'hat arP WP going to do? \\'ho's going Lo go wlrnrn and what an• \VI' going to do to gPt out of tlw rally."' 
As pIt' ase d as Brow n was with her team's poisP under pr . issur(' against a Scarlet Knights team that canw into the Joyce Center as tlw only other undefeated t1,am in Big East play. she was disappoint­ed in the defonsive breakdown at the end of tlw game. 
"\Vo talked bef'orP this match about how we need to be able to close a match and a ganrn out," Brown said. "It was dis­appointing that wr-didn't do that in tlrn way it should have been done." 
Big East Preseason player of tlrn year Kristy Kreher led the Irish with 17 kills and five blocks. Krnher committed only two hitting errors to finish with a .577 hitting percentage on the day. 
"She's getting really good swings," Brown said. ­
Fletcher was consistent for the Irish before her late-match heroics. The sophomore fin­ished with 14 kills and posted 
a .478 hitting percentage. She added three blocks. 
"She's btwn very consistent in practice, very consistent in her hitting and her blocking," Brown said. "Early in tho sea­son, she wasn't blocking as well but now I think she's in a good rhythm and doing a real­ly good job with it." 
Notre Dame took a com­manding 10-3 lead to opt•n tlrn first game of the match. 

Junior Janie Alderete tries to make a block during an Irish victory against Rutgers on Sunday. Alderete was subsituted during the 
third game and guaranteed an Irish sweep. 
Solid hitting and blocking by four consecutive points to go Kreher and Fletcher helped up 16-11. the Irish build that lead to 20-Rutgers came back within 
10. Hutgers closed the game to three points at 21-18 On a 26-20, but could pull no closer streak started by a long as Aldrete served an ace to Rutgers serve and a Jessica give the Irish the game. · Kinder serving ace, the Irish 
In game two, the teams posted a three and a four­playnd back and forth early. point run and sealed the game Tim score was knotted at 11 on a Fletcher kill. until a Kreher kill put the Irish Kinder, who had played up by one. Thtm, with Aldrete sparingly before this weekend, serving, the Irish reeled off totaled three service aces 

Columbia University's Biosphere 2: Earth Semester in Oracle Arizona Fall 2002 and Spring 2003 
INFORMATIONAL MEETING 
Wednesday, October 17 
7:00 pm 116 DeBartolo 
sponsored by the Center for Environmental Science & Technology 
,,. 
.;;: <-1.N I HU IC IU 
Environmental fir~~ Science & 
>ft:tlfr Technology 
.it tli ·fl.;w1t11ity fVbtn Da.11t 
Sunday. 

Bornhack led the way as Notre Dame swept Villanova (30-19, 30-20, 30-21) on Friday night. Bomhack had a season-high 12 kills and assisted on two of Notre Dame's nine blocks. 
Malinda Goralski added 10 kills as the Irish posted a .322 hitting percentage. Jessica Kinder posted five service aces in the first match in which she 
Runners 
continued from page 20 
total. Facing the strongest competition and largest field they have seen thus far, the Irish crushed any doubt that they are a threat to take the NCAA title this season. 

"This meet shows that we have little more depth than people believed or realized." Piane said. "Mario Bird had never run in a meet of that size or quality." 
"When all five guys are scoring, put under that pres­sure, it takes a lot to perform well," said Watson. "Responding to that pressure is something that has charac­terized this team, and that will help us win down the road." 
Irish 

continued from page 20 
tive on where they stand in comparison to their closest comr,etitors. 
"\Ve didn't light world on fire, but we didn't hurt our­selves either," Connelly said. "Every kid said, alright, it's a good reality check. They know what thev need to do." 
Villanova was the only team ranked ahead of Notre Dame 
saw significant playing time this season. 
"We're just trying to find a way to balance it so that we can use Jessica's serve and defense a little bit more," Brown said. "She responded very, very well both against Villanova and Rutgers." 
Contact Noah Amstadter at amstadter.l@nd.edu. 
Conway and Shay have two weeks to get better before the Big East Championships. And Colorado has a few more weeks to worry about what the Irish can do when two more All-Americans are scor­ing for the team. 
"Our confidence for winning nationals just went up," Shay said. 
"One of the big things we took away from this weekend is that no team is invincible," \Vatson said. " Colorado didn't look great, Stanford and Villanove are all beatable. If we run everyone there is not reason we can't win [NCAA's]." 
Contact Katie Hughes at khughes@nd.edu. 
going into Pre-Nationals that they did not end up finishing ahead of the Irish in the meet. 
"It was a good experience for the team in general. "said King. "This is where we real­ized that if we can put it together we can be a really good team ... We 're gonna work hard and concentrate on doing everything we need to do to be the best." 
Contact Katie Hughes at khughes@nd.edu. 

.. 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, October 15, 2001 
HOCKEY 
Dutchmen ice Irish with 7-4 weekend win 
By MATT ORENCHUK Sporn Writers 
Just when things were look­ing up for the members of the Irish hockey team. they found themselves back at the bottom. Euphoria 
struck when Notre 
D a m e forged a 3­2 lead against U n i o n College in the third 


p e r i o d Poulin thanks to R o b Globke's rare penalty shot goal. But it didn't last long as 
Notre Dame gave up three goals late in the third to give Union College the 7-4 win. 
The Irish dropped their sec­ond straight game to open the season 0-2. 
"We are going to have to 
battle through the adversity," said Irish head coach Dave Poulin. "[Union College] is a very hard working team that simply outplayed us." 
The third period saw a close game turn into a goal-scoring festival as the Irish and the Dutchmen combined for seven goals. 
Globke started the scoring when he received a nice pass that split two Union defenders. Globke had a clear shot at the goal, was hooked from behind but still managed to fake out Union's goalie Brandon Snee and stuff the puck in the left side for the Irish goal. Union quickly answered to even the game at 3. A Globke short­handed goal tied the game at 4 at the 9:44 mark. 
From that point it was all Union. A defensive breakdown on the penalty kill gave for the opportunity to put the Dutchmen ahead. His goal at the 10:20 mark of the third put Union ahead 5-4. The 

Dutchmen would add two was able to deflect the pass goals late to round out the past Union goalie Brandon scoring. Snee for the first Irish score of 
Notre Dame played the first the night. period Friday night in the In the second period tlrn ref's same spirit as the third period whistle came out. The teams of Thursday's game.. combined for nine penalties, 
In that game the Irish start­including a five-minute major ed slow, but turned up the by Notre Dame. offensive "Once pressure in again key the third people took
"We are going to have to

period penalties for 
against the battle through the adver­us," Poulin 
Dutchmen. In sity. [Union College] is a said. Friday's Union tied
very hard working team 

game the the game at 
Irish out-shot that simply outplayed one five min­the Dutchmen us. ,, utes into the 10-4 in the period when first period J o r cl yDave Poulin
with their Federko first goal Irish head coach zipped a coming at wrist shot 
11 :41. past Cey. 
Irish junior Jake \Viegand The tie only held for two min­was sitting in the right corner utes. of the Union zone when he Notre Dame went on the centered a pass out in front of power play after Union's Jason the Union goal. Tom Galvin Kean was called for tripping. 
The Irish responded with their first power play goal of the year. David Inman was able to nip the puck past Snee for the go-alrnad goal 7:33 into the period. 50 seconds later Union came back to tit~ the game. 
Connor Dunlop was sitting in the p·cnalty box serving a five­minute major for ho Id in g, when the Skating Dutchmen's Doug Christiansen was able to fire the puck past an out of position Cey to tic the game at two. The rest of the sncond was penalty kill after penalty kill and the teams re-entered the locker room tied at two. 
The Irish open up CCI IA play next weekend at Ohio State in Columbus. 
"\Ve have got to go back to work," said Poulin. "We have six straight road games com­ing up, so we have our work cut out for us." 
Contact Matt Orenchuk at morenu@nd.edu. 

ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
Irish hope to breeze to top 5 finish 
By JOE LINDSIEY 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's golf team battled 30 mile-per­hour winds as they practiced for the tournament at Alvamar Golf Club in Lawrence, Kansas Sunday. 
Today, with another windy day expected, the Irish will take on the weather as well as some imposing competition at the Marylinn Smith Sunflower Invitational, hosted by the University of Kansas. 
After their last place finish in one of the most competitive fields they will see all year at last week's Shoot-out at 
the Legends "We have a few changes five in 
tournament, 
in the line-up this week, Lawrence. 

the Irish are 
"We shot 

hoping for a but I think everyone's 
309 1ast higher place ready to play and week, and after three 
everyone [is hitting] the we posted a 

rounds of play 
score that 

at the par 72, ball real solid now. " 
was com­

5800-yard 
petitive with 

Alvamar Golf 
Debbie King other teams 

Course.· 
when the
Irish head coach

"We can do a top five fin­ish this week, just like we did at [the Notre Dame Invitational]," said Irish coach Debbie King, who believes the golfers are fairly confident. 
"[Despite the windJ we had a good practice round Sunday," King said. "The wind was real­ly blowing -I mean howling. That's going to make it tough [on Monday]." 
Senior Kristin McMurtrie, junior Terri Taibl, sophomores Rebecca Hogers and Shannon Byrne, and freshman Karen Lotta will represent Notre Dame in Lawrence. 
McMurtrie led the Irish last week, and Taibl and Rogers replace junior Lauren Fuchs and freshman Jeanne Murphy. 
"Karen Lotta and Kristen McMurtrie have been pretty steady at finishing quite fine," King said. 
Although the field will not be as competitive as last week, the Irish still expect a chal­lenge, with Oklahoma, Iowa State, Kansas State, and Kansas competing. 
The course itself though may be easier than previous cours­es the Irish have tackled. 
"This course is a lot shorter than we've been playing all other tournaments," Lotta said. "If we putt well, our team can score really well." 
With their season about to wind up, the Irish would really 
like to finish 
in the top 
field was 
really strong," McMurtrie said. "We have a few changes in the line­up this week, but I think every­one's ready to play and every­one [is hitting] the ball real solid right now. And I definite­ly think we can post low scores. especially since our season is winding down." 
Thanks to King, though, what was supposed to be their last tournament until February will now be the second to last. 
"I called around some coach­es and got the team into anoth­er tournament." King said. 
Notre Dame will play at Texas A&M in mid-November. 
The addition to their sched­ule seems to have reduced some of the pressure on the Irish golfers. 
. 
"Everyone's a little excited now because it's not the end of our season, we still have one more tournament," McMurtrie said. "Everyone wants a chance to play a little better both for themselves and for the 

team, "especially girls that are in the line-up for the first time this fall, they are definitely excited to get a chance to prove themselves." 
With a forecast of 16 mile­per -hour winds and showers 
for today, chances are the Irish will have that additional oppo­nent tomorrow. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu. 

International Study Programs 152 Hurley Building Notre Dame, IN ),... ,....._ 631-5882 
,Ji
;_,J­
~ ···~ -"' -· 
... 
-·· 
.s. •·' 
INNSBRUCK 

2002-03 Academic Year 
BERLIN 
2002-03, Fall '02 and Spring '03 
Information Meeting with Professor Hannelore Weber 
Monday, October 15, 2001 118 DeBartolo 
4:30 pm 
Application Deadlines: Innsbruck: Dec. 1, 2001 Berlin: Dec. 1, 2001 for F '02 
and All Year 2002-03 

Questions??? Weber.15@nd.edu Applications: www.nd.edu/~intlstud 



Monday, October l 5, 200 I page 15
The Observer . SPORTS 

'-···--------------------------------------------------------­
SMC SOCCER 
Belles get stuck in the mud 
WOMEN'S ROWING 
Rowers take 3 
races in Chi~ago 
team from Dublin High
Special to The Observer 

School was second, followed 
by Indiana in third.
The Notre Dame rowing In the open four race,
team completed a successful 
Indiana took first place inweekend by winning three 18:55.70, followed by
races at Saturday's Chicago 
Northwestern in 19:10.50.
Chase, while the novice eight 
The Notre Dame boat of
won its race and the varsity 
Alberding. Ka tie O·Hara.
eight was second at Sunday's Mercer, Welsh and Long wasHead of the Rock in third in 19:15.60, while the
Rockford, Ill. 

crew of Laura Aull, MaureenOn Saturday, the Irish won 
Carr, Meg feely, Kolleen
the varsity eight, the novice Myers and Markstahler werecight and the pairs race on fourth in 19:17.40.
the 2.75-mile course on the 
In Hockford, the novice

Chicago Hiver. In the varsity 
eight crew of Mulligan,eight race, Notre Dame Franzosa, Bartek, Henkel,
claimed three of the first five 
Thornburgh, Specht, Sedun,
spots, including finishing 1-2 
Mizzi and Rackish won its
as the shell of Kerri Murphy, second race of the weekend.
Diane Price, Natalie Ladine, 
The varsity eight crew ofAshlee Warren, Michelle Murphy, Price. Ladine,Olsgard, Casey Buckstaff, 

\Varren, Olsgard, Buckstaff,
Katherine Burnett, Jayme 
Burnett, Szefc and
Szefc and Cassie Markstahler 
Markstahler placed socond.
won in 16:12.90. The second 
Wisconsin was first, while
eight of Danielle 
Iowa . was third andProtasewich, Kathleen 
\Visconsin's B crew wasWelsh. Melissa Alberding, 
fourth.
Kati Sedun, Courtney 
The crew of Protasewich,Mercer, Erica Drennan, Ann 

Welsh, Alberding, Sedun.
Marie Dillhoff, Katie Besson 
Mercer, Drennan, Dillhoff,
and Kathryn Long was sec­Besson and Long was sev­
ond in 16:42.20. The third 
enth.
varsity finished fifth, while 
In the pairs race, Notre

the fourth eight was 10th. 
Dame claimed four of the top
In the pairs race, the duo five positions, as Iowa won
of Szefc and Burnett was 
the race. The duo of Szefc
first in 19:32.50. Notre 
and Burnett, fresh off its vic­Dame's Dillhoff and Drennan 
tory at the Chicago Chase,
were second in 19:47 .40, fol­was second.
lowed by the pair of Warren, The team of Buckstaff and
who won the pairs race at 
Olsgard was third. followed
the 2000 Chicago Chase with 
by the pair of Warren and
partner Becky Luckett, and 
Ladine and Murphy and
Ladine. 

Besson.
The novice eight team of 
In the open four, NotreAnn Mulligan, Beth 

Dame was fifth and 12th.
Franzosa, Alice Bartek, 
The Irish are next in action

Kristen Henkel, Meredith on Saturday, Oct. 20, asTh.ornburgh. Elizabeth selected crews compete at
Specht, Sedun, Kristen Mizzi 
the Head of the Eagle in
and Caitlin Rackish also fin­Indianapolis, Ind.
ished first in 17:27.90. A 
fuNivERS1Tv-LAUNiiRY-&7 I TANNING I I 1813 South Bend Ave. I 
lcAMPUS SHOPS, TANNING SPECIALI I 10 VISITS FOR $20 WITH COUPON I I DROP-OFF LAUNDRY I I $.65/LB. WITH COUPON I I ($6 MINIMUM) I 
L __ _!Pi!!:_S!!!V~b!!_1:_!0!! __ .J 
Want a ,front row seat? Write Observer sports. Ca(( 1·'1-5'1-3 
By KATRINA KALASKY 
Sports Writer 
The bad weather that has plaguod the Belles all season hit with a vengeance on Saturday and left Saint Mary's stuck in the mud. 
The Hornets of Kalamazoo dominawd with an 8-0 victory, as the unpleasant weather on Saturday played a major roll in the Belles' loss. 
Freshman goalkeeper Martha llottenstein described the field conditions as "a murky mess of mud." 
"It was a frustrating game," said junior captain Lynn Taylor. "The fil'ld was full of mud and it \Vas pouring rain. Our keeper was ankle deep in mud and water for the whole game. Kalamazoo is a good team, but the final score did not reflect how we played Saturday after­noon." 
Muddy weather wasn't the only explanation. The experi­enced Kalamazoo team was just too much for the inexperienced Belles to handle. 
"We didn't come into to game mentally prepared," said Hottenstein. Kalamazoo's lead­ing scornr, senior Lydia Raburn, scored three out of the eight goals for Kalamazoo. 
The loss gives Saint Mary's an overall record of 5-8 for the sea­son. 
This is not the first time this season the Belles fell short to the Hornets -They lost earlier in the year. 9-1. Kalamazoo is ranked No. 2 behind Albion in the MIM conference. 
The Belles only have four more games left this season before the playoffs. The next game is at home on Wednesday against fourth ranked Olivet College. This is the first match up between the Belles and the Comets this year. The first game was indefinitely postponed. "We're excited to finally play Olivet," Taylor said. "They're probably our biggest rivals in the conference." 
Wednesday will be the last chance to catch the Belles at home before fall break. The game kicks off at 3 p.m. 
Contact Katrina Kalasky at kala5482@saintmarys.edu. 
~00­
w~~ffi fflmm[ffl)wmr 
MH~IJ@Mi~lil~I 
\ 
lttl~lrU,!Hl

Campus Shoppes• 243-9448 

•wit~ competitors ad 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS 152 Hurley Building Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 T: 631-5882 
TOLEDO, SPAIN 
INFORMATION MEETING 
Bridget Green, Assistant Director International Study Programs 
Tuesday, October 16, 2001 
5:00 PM 138 DeBartolo 
Application Deadline: Dec. 1, 2001 Available on-line: www.nd.edu/~intlstud 

t 
l 
Monday, October 15, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 16 
l WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL GOLD LEAGUE 
I I \ \ 
,l 
.. 
I BP defense halts Lyons 
and winning the next two red zone today due to the 

By PHIL KOESTERER 
games." absence of lPE] offensive coor­Spons Writer 
dinator 'Grandpa' Jack Palma," said PE coach Jim
Badin 12, Pasquerilla East 0 
All it tak,~s is one big play to Donnelly.
ln yet another rainy \.veather·

break the game wide-open and Just as PE was unable to
match-up. the Badin Bullfrogs

scr.urc a victory. In Thursday make the big plays offensively.
m.oved a step closer to the

night's 6-0 defeat of Lyons. they could not match Badin's
playoffs and defeated the Pyros

BrPcn ·Phillips got just such a defensive output. Badin's sec­
of Pasquerilla East.

play from defender Kelly ond touchdown was set up by
"It was a really big game

Landers. an interception. Late in the
because we knew we had to 
On the first second half, Bullfrog defender
win or tie to 

play of the Jen Craig intercepted Terifay
gf}t in [to the 

g a m e . to stop a potential PE scoring
"Our defense really playoffs],"

Landers drive.
said Badin 

intercepted stepped it up and con­"The defense played really
coach Brett

Lyons quar­trolled the ball in this solidly tonight," said Gansen.
Gansen.

terback "This is a team that has
game with the three The

S a r a h allowed only three touchdowns
Bullfrogs (3­

Jenkins' interceptions. ,, in six games."
2-1) started 

pass, and PE moved to 2-3 on the year.
the game in

returned it making its game on Sunday
Corey Timlin fu II force 

for a touch­crucial to keep its playoff
Breen Phillips coach with an

down, giving hopes alive · 
eight-play

BP a 6-0 lead 
scoring drive

that would 
on their first possession. Badin Contact Phil Koesterer at 

hold for the rest of the game. 
quarterback Erin Zachary pkoester@nd.edu.
While Lander's play may 
completed a pass in the end­

have made the difference in 
zone on the sixth play of thethe game, the Babes' defense 

drive, but it was brought back 

was a dominant force. with 
after an illegal blocking call.

defenders Molly Cummings Two plays later. a Badinand Tessa Sainz each con­
runner broke the plane of the

tributing another interception. 
goal line on a reverse to put
"Our dcfonse really stepped 
six points on the board.

it up and controlled the ball in 
Wlrnn PE quarterback

this game with the three inter­
Lindsay Terifay was intercept­ceptions... said BP coach Corey 

nd deep in her own territory

Timlin. 
on the next drive, it set upIn the second half. Lyons 
anothor Badin touchdown, thiscould not put togethrff a drive 

time on a short pass from

of any substantial length. 
Zar.hary.
"We expected a "That play wastough game a 
turning

from them tonight, especially point in the game because itwith the Irain I," said Lyons 
gave IBadin1 great field posi­coach Jerry Fasoldt. "\,\le knPw 

tion, plus a lot of momentum

that they had an athletic quar­
after the first touchdovvn," said

terback, so \Ve set up the 
PE coach Josh Eckert.

defonse to k,~y off of lrnr and 
The Pyros put together sev­

they did an excellent job." 
eral strong drives, but could
Quarterback Katie 
not seem to 

!'vi c F a r I a n .d 
get the little

and the BP 
things to go
"It was a really big game 

offense found 
their way.

it difficult to because we knew u,e had 
Late in the 

get into the 
to win or tie to get in [to first half on

cndzonc. The 
the playoffs]. ,, fourth

Babes offense 
d o w n . 

was held 
Terifay

scoreless, and Brett Gansen 
threw an

forced to punt 
Badin coach expertly­

the ball frc­
placed passqwmtly. 

to receiver"For the 
Kathryn Lent in the end-zone,

playoffs. we need to brush up who caught the ball as she foll on a couple of' things, [includ­
out of bounds. The refen~e

ing! scoring." said BP captain
' ruled that Lent's foot was 
•,I Jenny Wahoske. "We've been 
already out of bounds when

all about knocking on the door, 
she caught the pass.

but not getting it in." 
PE drove again early in theAs BP improved to 3-1-1 on 
second half. with Terifay pass­the year. Lyons saw any hopes 

ing and running the ball with

of a playoff berth slip through equal effectiveness. The Pyrosits hands. falling to 2-4. 
were stopp{!d on fourth down "WP had to win tonight to get 
again, however, when Terifay

in [the playoffs!." Fasoldt said. 
scrambled to the goal line and

"But we had a good season. 
was forced out of bounds with­We started off (0-2). and a lot 

out breaking the plane of theof people wrotP us off. The 

goal line.

girls \Vere great, coming back "Our offense struggled in the 
Like Sports? Write for The Observer. 
Call 1-4543 


-



Monday, October 15, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish offense explodes with 7 goals 
By JOE LICANDRO 
Spores Writer 
\\'hat a differnncc a week of practicn can make. The problem for tlw Notre Dam,~ women's soc­cer team this season has not been creating scoring chances. but sim­ply finishing them by finding the back of the net. 
But that changed Friday when thP Irish erupted to a 7-0 victory against tlrn St. .John ·s Hed Storm at Alumni Field. 
For the past week, Notre Dame women's soccer coach Handy Waldrum wanted his team to be more aggressive offensively by starting to take more shots on goal. Scw~n different Irish players scored while the Irish tandem of goalies Liz Wagner and Lauren Kent did not have to stop a single St. John's shot all game. Irish sophomorP forward Amanda Guertin was named offensive player of the game after scoring a goal and registering two assists. 
After scoring only three goals the previous weekend in a loss to Rutgers and a victory against Seton I tall, Notre Dame did not waste any time recapturing the scoring touch. Only 27 seconds into the game, sophomore for­ward Melissa Tancredi scored her third goal of the season off a crossing pass from Guertin. 
Senior midfielder Mia Sarkesian and sophomore forward Amy Warner also added goals in the first half giving the Irish a 3-0 lead heading into half time. 
Irish dominance continued in the second half with three more goals by mid fielders Handi Scheller, Ashley Drier and Kim Carpenter. Guertin added the fin­ishing touches to the Irish victory with a goal of her own with only two minutes remaining in the game. 
The seven goals for the Irish were the most goals they have scored all season. Not only did the Irish step it up offensively, they also controlled the field defensive­ly. Defenders Vanessa Pruzinsky, Monica Gonzales and Candace Chapman began to eliminate the mental breakdowns that have plagued the Irish all season by communicating better with one another. allowing no shots on goal. 
The win bodes well for the Irish, but Friday's contest brought bad tidings as well. Star freshman midfielder Mary Boland left the game against St. John's after breaking her ankle on a collision with a St. John's defender. Boland will be out at least four weeks and could be out for the remainder of the season. 
\Vith the victory on Friday, the Irish improved to 10-1-1 on the season. 
Contact Joe Llcandro at Licandro. l@nd.edu. 



BRIAN PUCEVICH/The Observer 

Irish forward Kelly Tulisiak tries to get away from a defender with the ball. The Irish scored 
seven goals Friday night in defeating St. John's. 


.1' Wet Your Whistle! 
(and stuff your face) 
DAILY SPECIALS 
Rated # I Hot Wings ~ in the area 
Monday Night Football 
Buckets of Wings & 
Half-Priced Pitchers 



RESERVED WEEKLY COURT TIME SCHEDULING MEETING 
Any organization wishing to request weekly basketball or volleyball court time at 
Stepan Center for the  
2001-2002 academic year must attend:  
'Ptf_rlTlf~.x~,J•,_~~•z'.·.. ~ ·~~t•~-=-. >....1:~Jt~ .~.,  ((;\;.r~.·rt,,J'}--,.y~,...~·'J.rif: ~J~ ~.I  ·1:J(~1:J  
~l~~:::~l-~!l:lil  

fi}fl,;'\'.4,v:-..;..':ffj"'-.~'Yi:.tv~"'~'YI '1[n'~r;;·,c;·~F\(;,-., 
1Xil,-:.0:"Jffi,"'S..,·:Al JJ....=..J ,::-.I ti tJ:J;.~!..JUL1 ,5 
You must have a representative 
present at the meeting to 
request your times. 

Weekly court time will begin Monday, October 29. 
For more information, contact Student Activities 631-6912. 




page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, October 15, 2001 
I 
I
I 
l 
/ 
I
I 
I 
! 
( 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Irish defense records shutout 
llokics had several shots 
By BRYAN KRONK 
deflected off the post. 
Sports Writer 
However, none of them man­aged to cross the goal line. 
Judging from the scorers for Late in tlrn match, it '.'Jotre D~tme in its match on appeared as though the single Sunday, it seemed likP history goal by Prescod would stand was repeating itself. up. vVith just two seconds 
Just like in Thursday's remaining in the match. how­match against West Virginia, ever, Braun received a nice Devon Prescod struck. first for pass from Prescod and the Irish and Erich Braun knocked in the finishing touch. added a nail in the Hokies' Braun leads the Irish in coffin, as the Irish defeated scoring, with eight goals on Virginia Tech 2-0. the season. 
The win marked the third Irish freshman goalie Chris consecutive victory for the Sawyer racked up his second Irish. whose record improved straight shutout, saving four to 4-2 in the Big East and 6-4 shots. overall. Once again, the Irish 
With the victory, the Irish defense held its opponent move ahead of Big East foes scoreless, marking the third Syracuse and Georgetown, shutout for Notre Dame. which both lost their weekend In its six victories, the Irish games. The Irish are now defense has allowed only four right in the middle of the race goals while scoring 19 times . for a spot in the Big East con­In its four losses, the defense ference postseason tourna­has given up 11 goals. ment. Both the Irish and the 
The Irish broke the scoreless Hokies recorded 11 shots on tie with 10 minutes remaining goal for the game. in the first half. as Prescod Next up for the Irish is in­took a lead pass from mid­state rival and nationally­fielder Filippo Chillemi and ranked Indiana on \Vednesday chipped a shot past Virginia at 7 p.m. In their 20-game Tech goalie Colin Kibler to series with the Hoosiers, the give the Irish a one~goal Irish have only taken one vic­advantage into halftime. tory, a 4-3 overtime win in 
The goal was the third in South Bend on Sept.13, 1987 two games for Prescod, who and a tie the following year in had only one goal in his colle­Bloomington. giate career prior to the West Virginia ganw. 
The Irish lead did not go Contact Bryan Kronk at uncontested, however, as the bkronk@nd.edu. 

(ie11f:iy•··eUm£~:.r? 
.Unwarited hairrBirthma.rks.. ·•· > ····· .. splderJvaricose v~ins< Hemang.ioma •. age sPQts. DY· EpiLight® Photoderm Laser® . 
• Botox inJ... for .CroW'$ fe~trFrown·.L:tne~r 
• Mforodermabrasion 
· ..--•·,·.·· .. 
.Laser hair•vein clinic 5 Berdi)(Qr
28718787 201 
w~w;hairvein.corn> ·· SouUi 6finq••• 

·:¦ C Notre Dame Center ¦ -=-] ¦ for Ethics and Religious ·~}¦ I Values in Business 
Proudly Presents 
Mr. William McGurn 
Chief Editorial Writer of 
The Wall Street Journal 
"The Relevance of Just-War Principles After September 11" 
Brown Bag Luncheon Friday, October 19, 2001 339 Mendoza College of Business 12:30 p.m. -1 :30 p.m. 
* Beverages will be provided. Please bring your own lunch. ** You can find additional information at www.nd.edu/~ethics/ 








"' ... """', ., ' .... J. 
,fO ... ' I • t t, 
. . 

Monday, October I5, 2001 page 19
The Observer . TODAY 
EUGENIA LAST 

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 32 Attractive 55 Strive to achieve 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
1 P.C. program fingers? 56 Travel agency 
THIS DAY: Emeril Lagasse, John Do what you can, and others will Kenneth Galbraith, Sarah Fergu­join in. You will have to set the
4 Graceless group 35 Helpless? info 
son, Penny Marshall, Linda Lavin standard in order to see progress
8 Slow strolls 36 Wrinkly-skinned 57 Maneuvers 
Happy Birthday: Put your today. Get busy instead of angry.
dog 

sophisticated and well-conceived Organize responsibilities and del­
58 Small price to14 Is overwhelmed 

ideas in motion. Your wit and can­egate work. 000
37 Some payby 

dor will earn the respect you're LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22):
antiterrorists 59 Bernadette, 

looking for. You're feeling positive, Enjoy what life has to offer. Enter­
16 Go by 38 Carmine-orange e.g.: Abbr. 
and things are tu.ming around for tainment should include loved 
17 Causing to hue 
you. Good times are ahead, and ones. Short trips promise a care­
expand 
the more you give of yourself, the free environment. You don't need
39 St. Louis's _ 

more you'll get back. Your num­to spend a lot to have a good
18 King of pop Bridge DOWN 
bers are 11, 15, 19, 20, 24, 36 time.000 19 King of Pop 40 Part of the leg 1 Recipe word 
ARIES {March 21-April 19): SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Bein~ in business for yourself is a Show just how dedicated a per­
21 Artist August 42 Suffix with butyl 2 Tantrum thrower 
good idea Your ideas are on target. son you can be. You love to put
of the Blaue 

and your work is commendable, effort into worthwhile causes.
43 Dome-shaped 3 BustReiter school 

but keep priorities straight and The more involved you are in
Buddhist shrine 4 Separately 

don't neglect your personal life. charity work, the more satisfac­
22 Knight's noise 45 Grumps 
000 tion you will receive. 000
5 Java is in it23 Suffix with 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): SAGfITARIUS <Nmt22-Dec.21):
47 Other half of 

brom-6 Calls may be 
lt's time to focus on yourself. 1his Contracts and agreements will
another country? 
made in it 

is a great day to start that new not be clear-cut, so examine the
24 Burst 52 Cause of some 
health regimen. Changes to fine print before signing. Some­
7 Fishing lines26 Mezzo Borodina droughts 

enhance your appearance will lead one may be trying to take 
8 Texas's state 

to more social activity. 000 advantage of you. Make your
30 Relatively 53 Como and 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): living space more comfortable.
treewretched Columbo 

You can make money by playing 0000
9 "Wellaway!" 

your cards right. Real-estate invest­CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): ments will be advantageous and Don't sit around doing nothing.
10 One of the 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
perhaps help to boost your posi­Plan to do some research on your
Channel Islands 

tion in society. Enlist family and own. If you drop in to visit a '"':'"t-:-+--:-t-~-:+:-:"t-::-t-::-r.~::-t 11 "Iliad" or 
friends and consider their feelings. client, you will make a friend.
27 Silent types 44 Moves quickly 49 Subject

"Odyssey" 00000 Your hands-on assistance will
preceder

28 Military CANCER (June 21-July 22): speak for itself. 00 
-,,-+.,...,+~~~ 12 Edvard Munch 46 Femme fatale 

Friends and relatives may not AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):
specialist 
in "The 50 Go for
Museum locale 

understand your needs unless Stop dawdling and put your
Carpetbaggers"

29 They might be they' re spelled out loud and clear. place in order. You will feel ener• 
13 Beheld 51 Delivered

in parentheses It's time to talk with unfiltered gized. The dust is settling, so
47 Kitty chorus 

15 Very bad, 54 Birmingham-to­truthfulness. Change is on its way. tnake the necessary adjustments.
31 Home run

slangily 00 Once complete, you'll be back in
48 Truckloads Montgomery dir. 
swings 

LEO 0uly 23-AuJ 22): You will the game. 00000
20 Baronet who 

have a diffirult time keeping things PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20):
..,,,.+..,.....,,,.c wrote of a pirate 33 Spiced Indian 

~yourself.Be careful. Someone's Partnerships with creative people 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
tea

21 Manhandle feeli.ng-s may be hurt ifyou divulge will lead to financial gains. It's
are available by touch-tone phone:
.,..,.+-,,-+,,,,....,,.....,,,.c 

34 "Tomb Raider" information. Contribute to a wor­time to stabilize your future. You -,,-+-,-+,,,.+-,-t 25 One may exert 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minu1e). thy cause, which will increase your can make promises that were
adventuress 

pressure Annual subscriptions are available for the popularity. 0000 impossible in the past. 000 
41 Emetic root 
___.... 26 Regatta best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 

Birthday Baby. You are charming and clevet as well as creative, tal­
participants 43 Echo finder years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

ented and efficient. You'll spend much of your life developing all your incredible ideas. (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, 
eugenialast.com,. astromate.com.) 
0 2001 Universal Press Syndicate 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

FOURTH AND INCHES 

FOXTROT 
NINTENDO IS WARNING THEY WON'T HAVE ENOU{,H GAMECU8ES To MEET INITIAL DEMAND WHEN 
MICRoSoFT IS SAYING THE SAME THING ABOUT ITS XBox GAME SYSTEM. 
TOM KEELEY 
BILL AMEND 
You DoN'T SUPPoSE IT'S 25 THEY TooK oUR 20 MlLLlON NOW. MILLION PRE-oRDERS I WAS SORED 

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 


Person 1: Something fantastically absurd is happening to them, preferably it involves devouring or being devoured by an animal 
RYAN CUNNINGHAM 
Person 2: 
Inappropriately under reacts 
_..... 


Befuddled and Bemused Comic Template 

THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday. The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Co1nn1unity. 
Join the fnore than 13,000 readers \Vho have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please con1plete the accon1pa­nying forn1 and rnail it today to receive The Observer in your ho1ne . 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and n1ail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year D Enclosed is $50 for one semester Name Address City _______ State ____ Zip______ • 
• • •• f ••••• 
-
Campus Sports 
. 
Men's Soccer, p. 18 

. 
ND Women's Soccer, p. 17 

. 
lnterhall, p. 16 

. 
SMC Soccer, p. 15 



O
THE Campus Sports
BSERVER 

. Women's-Rowing, p. 15 
. 
Hockey, p. 14 

. 
ND Women's Golf, p. 14 



Monday, October 15, 2001 

ND CROSS COUNTRY 
Unexpected raises expectations 
. Irish finish in second place after Shay, Conway drop out of race 
By KATIE HUGHES 
Spor~s Writer 
j It was the unexpected that showed what could be expected from the Irish for the rest of the season. Expect stepping up, expect responding to pressure, and expect some serious depth. In Saturday's Pre-National Meet at the Furman cross country course in Greenville, S.C.. the No. 5 Irish took sec­ond place behind No. 1 Colorado despite losing tvvo top runners to illness. All-American seniors Hyan Shay and Pat Conway. who had not been feeling well since last weekend's Notre Dame Invitational, both started the race, but became so ill that neither was able to fin­ish. "After about three and a half miles. I just started to hyperventilate," Shay said. "Conway started coughing violently prior to the meet," said head coach Joe Piane. \Vith Shay and Conway out of the ra-ce, that meant all five remaining runners would count in the scoring for the Irish. Senior Luke Watson lead the Irish with a fourth-plan~ finish at in 24: 17 while senior Marc Striowski finished second for the Irish. taking 12th overall in 24:25, and sophomore Todd Mobley finished 14th in 24:46. Senior Sean Zanderson and sophomore Mario Bird responded to the pressure of losing top runners. stepping up to finish 51st and 91 st, respectively. fighting for places that put the Irish 12 points away from third place Air Force. "The pace dropped during the second mile and strung out," Watson said. "It t wasn't until the fourth mile [I knew] Pat l and Hyan were most likely going to drop,i out. and we net~ded every place we could get.,,
l 
I 
Notre Dame scored 172 points. behind first-place Colorado's 62 point team 
t see TENNIS/page 30 

. Bee sting, cramp drop Irish to 11th place finish 
By KATIE HUGHES Sportxs Writer 
The uncontrollable controlled tlw Irish during Saturday's race. Competing in Pn~-Nationals at thP F u rtn an cross co u n t r y c o u rs e i n Greenville, S.C., No. 24 Notre Dame took 11th place, scoring 385 points. despite individual struggles that kept the tPam from performing to capabili­ty. 
Junior Jen llaridlPy, consistently a top finisher for the Irish, got a cramp two miles into the race. freshman Christi Arnerich wasn't foe ling wnll and junior Jen Fibuch was stung by a bee during the race. 
"Jon was running n~ally well. 'til she got a stitch," said head coach Tim Connellv. "There wasn't a whole lot she couid do but hope it works itself out." 
freshman Lauren King, running in her second collegiate cross country race. took first for thn Irish and 15th overall in the nationally competitive race. finishing the 6000 meter course in 21 :20. Sophomore MPgan Johnson stcppPd up to finish second for the Irish and 52nd overall in 22: 13. Despite llandley's cramp. she fin­ished third for the Irish and 65th overall. 
"I thought [Lauren] ran well. I was a little worried about 6000 meters," Connelly said. "She didn't feel like she was on top of her game, but I was glad she got through it. The same with Megan. she got through it well." 
Notre Dame's fourth and fifth scor­ing runners finished in 121st and 132nd place to giw\ tlw Irish a team score of 385, just 13· points out of a berth in the top-10. 
Despite the unusual situation on Saturday, the Irish come away from Pm-Nationals with a solid perspec­
see STORY/page# 


ND VOLLEYBALL 
Irish sweep to bring home 2 Big East wins 
. 5-foot-3 Aldrete leads Irish to win 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Spores Editor 
With the help of a 5-foot-3 middle blocker, the Notre Dame women's volleyball team 
stopped a late game three rally to sweep Rutgers Sunday afternoon (30-22, 30-23, 33­31 ). 
The match marked the sec­ond Big East win of the week­end for the Irish (12-3. 7-0 in the Big East) after they topped the Wildcats of Villanova on Friday evening. 
With the Irish up 28-24 in game three, Irish head coach Debbie Brown used up her final substitution to put in 5­foot-3 junior Janie Aldrete to serve. Mary Kiriakou recorded a kill on that point for the Scarlet Knights. 
After a Kim Fletcher kill gave the Irish a 29-25 lead and game point, the Scarlet Knights reeled off five consec­
. 

utive points to reath game point themselves with a 30-29 lead. 
A kill by Fletcher and an ace serve from Marcie Bomhack put the Irish up 31-30 before another Kiriakou kill tied the game at 31. Then Fletcher to.ok over. 
Fletcher scored a kill to give the Irish a 32-31 lead. Then, with Aldrete statiorrnd at the middle blocker position, Fletcher served an ace to give Notre Dame a hard fought 33­31 victory. 
"You figure with the score what it was, we definitely should have been able to score points and side out to finish 
see IRISH/page 17 
. SMC Soccer vs. Olivet, Wednesday, 3 p.n. 

OBSERVER
. Football vs. USC, Saturday, 1:30 p.m.
SPORTS 

online classifieds 
. Men's Soccer vs. Boston College, Saturday, 7:30 p.m.AT AGLANCE . Women's Socce at Connecticut, Sunday, 1 p.m. http://www.nd.edu/~observer 
r 
( 

~1onday, October 15, 2001 OBSERVER Notre Dame 34, West Virginia 

BRIAN PUCEVICHfThe Observer Notre Dame junior tailback Julius Jones battles the mud and a West Virginia defender as he charges up the middle during Notre Dame's 34-24 win over West Virginia Saturday afternoon. With the win, the Irish improve to 2-3 on the season. 
Rushing past West Virginia 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sports Wrirt:r 
It' Justin Smith's fourth-quarter inter­ception seenrnd familiar. it should have. Four years ago in thr sanw stadium. ttwn-Notrt' Danw snnior Ty Coode. play­ing lwcausP startPr :\llf~n Hossum suf'­f'PrPd a conn1ssion on tlw third play of tlw game. intrrrepted a \1arr Bulger pass in tlw nndzonP to Sf'al thn,21-14 victory ovPr \Vest Virginia. 
In the fourth quartPr Saturday with tlw MountainPPrs driving for the go­ahead scorn, the lifth-v,~ar sPnior Smith playing in nickel an·d dime d(~fnnse~ hPcause of injuries to safoti1~s J(~rome Sapp and Hon lsnwl. pickPd off \Vest Virginia's Brad LPwis and rPturnPd the ball to tlw Notrr Dam(' 45 yard line. sPaling Notre• Dame's :H--24 win. 
"I thought lthP balll look1•d like the sun. It was like a shiny day -I forgot all about the rain," Smith said. "You \Vork so hard for fivP years. I'm just glad I had the opportunity to make it." 
On the 1wxt play. Tony Fislwr broke a tacklP at the line of' scrimmage and rared 55 yards for thn touchdown to put the game all but out of reach. 
"That was huge," Irish linebacker Tyreo Ilarrison said. "It put tht' nail in tlw cof'lin. \VP knew it was time to put 
Irish rely on dominant running attack to beat Mountaineers 34-24 
that game away." 
On the sloppy field in rainy conditions. passing proved nearly impossible for the two teams. Lewis finishPd 9-for-23 for 91 yards and the interception. Irish quarterback Carlyle lloliday was 7-for­14 for only 70 yards. 
"IThe conditions] were helpful 
, d . ..
becausn WP rn a goo running team. · Holiday said. "We pass the ball. but not that much, so we were able to do what we do.h1~st -run the ball. It not onlv hclp<'d us but the defense. Their quar·­terback had a little trouble throwing tlw ball in the second half." 
With the passing games neutralized by the rain. the difforence between the two teams was the way the quarter­backs used their legs. not their arms. lloliday led the Irish in rushing with 130 yards on 19 carries. 
In the end the Irish ground game proved too much for the Mountaineers. Notre Dame rushed for 345 yards as Fisher contributed 119 yards on 22 car­ries with a pair of touchdowns and Julius Jones gained 92 yards on 22 attempts with two touchdowns of his own. 

"vVe know \\'C have to go out there and establish a strong running game," Fisher said. "That's Notre Dame football -running the ball. \Ve've been able to run the ball the last couple of weeks and we're going to try to continue from here on out." 
The Irish got on the bt>ard early in tlH~ game. After If o liday took an option keeper 27 yards. Jones ran off the left side for a 19-yard touchdown. The score canw 1:15 into the game and was tht> quickest touchdown for the Irish sincn Allen Hossum returned an inter­ception for a touchdown 18 seconds into a game against Ilawaii in 1997. 
"It wasn't particularly fancy but we came out of the chute well," offensive coordinator Kevin Rogers· said. "We had tht~ big touchdown run by Julius which I thought really helped our confidence." 
\Vest Virginia matched the score on its next possession after just !'our plays when running back Avon Cobourne broke through the line, slipped a tackle attempt from Israel and raced 60 yards for the score. 
\Vith the score tied in the second quarter, Notre Dame put together a 15­play drive capped off with a 1~yard touchdown run by Jones to pull ahead 17-10. The Irish didn't throw a pass during the drive, but converted a pair of fourth down plays. 
\Vest Virginia tied the gamt~ at 17 on its first possession of the second hair with a 12-yard touchdown pass from Lewis to A.J. Nastasi. 
After a Notre Dame punt on its next possession, \Vest Virginia took the lead on another touchdown pass from Lewis, this time to wide~ receiver Tory Johnson. 
"In the second half, we came out and laid an egg," Hogers stated. "\Ve had six dead plays in a row." 
Just as it appf'arPd the Mountain('Prs had taken thP monwntum. Holiday broke free for 36 yards on another option keeper. At first. it appean~d Iloliday had gone all the way in for the score, but officials ruled him out of bounds at the 25. On the ensuing play. Fisher finished off the drive with the touchdown run to tie the score. 
The Irish took the lead on Nicholas Setta's 42-yard field·. his second on thfl day, and thPn put thl~ ganw out of reach at 34-24 with Fisher's 55-yard touch­down run with 7:30 left to play. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu. 


player of the game  quote of the game  stat of the game  
Carlyle Holiday  "We have to go out there and  345 rushing yards  
The maturation ofNotre Dame's  establish a strong running game  The Irish final(lJ discovered their  
sophomore quarterback continues  because that's Notre Dame football  offensive identity. They ran the  
as he rushedfor the most yards of  -being able to run the ball."  ball on 69 oftheir 83 offensfoe  
any Notre Dame quarterback since  Tony Fisher  plays and averaged an  
Tony Rice in 1989.  Irish tailback  impressivefive yards a carry.  

I . 
,t;. . .._ ·, 
page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Monday, October 15, 2001 
report card 

A-
quarterbacks: Holiday had thf' best run­ning game by any Irish quarterback 
since Tony Hice. His passing still needs a little work but hP shows great 
potential. 

A-
running backs: Jones and Fisher earh had two touchdowns in Notre Dame's best rushing ganw of tlrn 
vear. Fisher's fumbh~ was tlw onlv iwgative on the day for the backs~ 

B 
receivers: The receivers were solid in their few opportunities. Godsey, how­ever, missed a sure touchdown catch. 
offensive line: 345 yards of rushing 

B 
speaks for itself but the line still 
allowed two sacks. This young group 
is sho\-ving improvement every week. 

B 
defensive line: The Irish used mostly nickel and dime packages on defense which limited the line's versatility. 
Nevertheless. the Irish needed to do a better job on Colburne. 

8-
linebackers: Boiman had a sack but \Vatson and Harrison combined for just 12 tackles. Once again the nickel and 
dime packages limited the chances for the linebackers. 
defensive backs: The weather helped slow 

A 
do\\11 \Vest Virginia's passing but an Irish secondary ravaged by injuries still 
had a great game. Israel's interception helped seal the Irish victory . 
. 
special teams: Two made field goals. a 

A 
punt inside the 5-yard line. a few good 
returns and an onside kick gave the 
Irish special teams a special day. Not 
even a thrown tovvel could hold them 
down. 

A 
coaching: Davie showed some guts when he went for it on fourth down 
and mad<~ it four times. The onside 
kirk fooled everyone in the Stadium. 
overall: A reallv bad West Virginia. football team helped an above-average Irish team

3.44 
look outstanding. 
adding up the numbers 
estimated number of empty gold seats on the east side­1ine in the first quarter ­
128 
apparently rich people melt 
when it rains 
16 
numbi3rs of seconds elapsed on the first Irish touchdown 
drive 
cosecutive Irish running plays beginning on the third Irish touchdown drive and ending in 
25 
the third quarter 
345 Irish rushing yards -the most since the 2000 Boston College game 
uniform number of Corey Mays, who frequently showed 
46 
off his dance moves standing on the bench on the sideline 
4 
number of times Davie went for it on fourth down -also the num­
ber of times the Irish converted on fourth down 
number of fourth down coversions 
o 
allowed by West Virginia before Saturday 
1 
towels thrown by a West Virginia player in an attempt to block 
Nicholas Setta's field goal 
INSIGHT 


A heavy rainstorm like Saturday's can wash a quarter­back right out of a game. 
But while Mountaineer quarter• back Brad Lewis struggled, Notre· Dame's Carlyle 
Holiday thrived. 
Neither quar­terback had stellar passing numbers. Lewis was 9-23 for just 91 yards. Holiday's num­bers weren't 

much better. He Mike ConnoJly was only 7-14 for 70 yards. But in the 
Outside
monsoon-like 
Looking In
conditions. Holiday's legs made him the most important' player on the Irish offense while Lewis was rendered ineffective. 
"[The rain] was very helpful because we're a good running team," Holiday said. "We pass the ball but not that much so we were able to utilize what we do best ... Their quarterback had a little trouble throwing the football." 
If this game was played again on a dry field in bright sunshine, the results may have been very differ­ent. If the Mountaineers' spread offense could have preyed on the depleted Irish secondary, Notre Dame might be 1-4 right now. 
But in the cold muck, Holiday's ability to move the ball with his feet as well as his arm gave the Irish as distinct advantage. 
lie rushed for 130 yards on the day induding 27 and 36-yard runs that set up two Irish touchdowns. 

He averaged almost seven yards a carry. 
And here is the most incredible part about Holiday's MVP perfor­mance: he is only a freshman eligi­bility-wise. 
Notre Dame fans can look l'or­w ard to four more years of Holiday presents like the one he handed out Saturday. As a fresh­man he is already the most impor­tant weapon on offense and he can only get better. 
"It's not even close," offensive coordinator Kevin Hogers said when asked about lloliday's poten­tial compared to his current pro­duction. "He is a guy who eventu­allv will be able to do it all." 
Saturday he tipped the scales solidly in Notre Dame's favor. Bcc-ause he was just as much of a threat to keep the ball as pitch it or throw it, West Virginia's defense had to be spread itself a little bit thinner. 
"I think he's opening up all of us," running back Tony Fisher said. 
While Holiday's feet were keep­ing the .Irish offense moving in the mud. his arm was still kt~eping the defense honest. Although he only completed seven passes, his progress as a passer is already visible. Holiday made several poor decisions against Nebraska and Texas A&M to force the ball into coverage for an interception. Saturday his decisions were much improved. His only interception was just as much intended receiv­er Gary Godsey's fault as it was Holiday's, according to Hogers. 
"He's a sharp guy and he is going to be able to pick up things and as he progresses through his career, he is going to get better and better," Hogcrs said. "I think you can see how he is dPvPloping and what kind of' guy he can be. There vvcre scweral times during the course of the game when~ hP didn't let it go. That's all going to come as he progresses and gt~ts smarter." 
Perhaps the greatest concern with a freshman quarterback at the helm isn't whether or not he can run or pass but if he can lead. According to fifth-year senior and starting tackle Kurt Vollcrs, II oIi d a y has ncJ pro bIem s i n th P leadership department. 
"He was a cool dude in there," Vollers said. "lie was controlling that huddle." 
The most intriguing part of Holiday's performance Saturday wasn't how good it was. But how looking back in two or three years, it might appear only averag.~. With more time to develop as a quarter­back and learn to read defenses, Holiday's passing numbers could skyrocket. 
\Vith a dry ball and a year of' experience. Holiday could become just as deadly with his arm as he is with his legs. 
"It's building and it's gonna keep building," he said about his confi­dence...It's just gonna kP-ep build­ing." 
Holiday's reality ,viii keep build­ing toward that incredible poten­tial. 
/\nd the mud still won't be able to slow him down. 
Mike Connolly can be reached al Connolly.28@nd.edu. The views of this column are those ofthe author and are not necessarily those of The Observer. 
·, 
--~ t...... tti-.,_ '._. 

Monday, October I 5, 200 I The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Irish offense grinds out best ground performance 
By KATIE McVOY Associact: Spores EJicor 
Tim Irish ran away with the game. Literally. 
During Saturday's win against v\'est Virginia, Notn~ Dame posted eight season­high rushing marks, totaling ]45 yards and returning to the !mart of Irish football. 
"WP just know we have to go out therP and establish a strong running ganrn lH~cause that's Notre Dame football, being able to run the ball," senior tai Iback Tony Fisher said. 
Fisher rushed for 119 yards, joining quarterback Carlyle Holiday in topping the 100­yard rushing mark -the first time two Irish players have topped 100 yards in the same game since I999. 
Against West Virginia, Notre Damp ran the ball on 92 per­cent of their offensive plays. In t lrn i r fi rsl th re,~ g a m e s t h i s season. the Irish had a com­bined total of' 269 rushing rushing. Saturday, the Irish had 345 rushing yards. 
After a stagnant start to the season. the Irish rushing ganie finally took off. · 
"Our offensive team is com­ing together every week," F is lw r s a id . " . . . WA ' vf! bp, e n able to run the ball the last coupl11 of WPPks and we're going to try to continue that from lwrP on out." 
Wet conditions put a damper on NotrP Dame's passing gam<' . for c: in g th <' run . Th (~ int1~nsivn rushing game culmi­n atcd in a 15-play, 55-yard scoring driv,, in tlw second quart11r that was kept entirely on tlw ground. 
''To be quitP horwst. if our offense doPsn't control the ball t h (\ way llw y co n tro 11 e d it today, if our offnnse doesn't have those long, time-consum­ing driv,~s I'm not sure we can win tlw football game," Irish lwad roach Bob Davit> said. 
".'.!;; ". . . But th<' o ffo n s e d id do that." During tlw drive. tailback Julius Joiws ruslwd nirw tinws for 32 yards, Fisher took the handof'f thrn<1 times for S('ven 
yards. and Holiday kept three 
timns for 16 yards, eating up 
seven minutns. 13 seconds. 
"[The long drive] takes a lot 
out of us, it fatigues us a bit, 
but we feel good when it hap­
pens," Holiday said. "We're 
controlling the clock the whole 
game and that's a big posi­
tive." 
Tim first-half rur.rning game was unstoppable. The Irish kept possession of the ball for nearly 19 minutes, and made 46 running plays. 
"That was telling me we were possessing the ball," offensive coordinator Kevin Hogers said. "One of those dri­ves was a 15-play deal. We were kind of two, three yards and then all of the sudden we geta15." 
The Irish can find reasons for their success in more than just their running backs. The of'fensiv,~ line and solid play by Holiday coupled with the good work of the Irish running backs solidified the Irish attack. 
"It was the offensive line," Jones said. "The offensive line had a great day and I give them all the credit for our per­formance." 
vVith the help of the offen­sive line, the Irish averaged a season high five yards per rush, four rushing touchdowns and 23 first downs. 
"(The offensive line] was coming off the ball fast, they wen~ hungry today," Holiday said. "They love running the ball and they came out !Saturday) and proved they could run the ball." 
Holiday was the leading rusher for the Irish. finishing the game with 130 rushing yards, the most rushing yards an Irish quarterback has had since Tony Hice in 1989. Holiday also has the season-· high for rushing yards for any Irish player this season. 
"lh~'s a sharp guy and he is going to be able to pick up things and as he progresses through his can~cr he is going to get better and bntter," Hognrs said. 
\\Tith both Fisher and Holiday rushing for more than 100 yards, and the offensive 


line opening holes, the option not it's a carry for him." were going to run it, our worked. The Irish are finally running defense knew they were going 
"That's the way our offense the kind of game Notre Dame to run it," Mountaineers head is running right now," Fisher is expected to run. coach Rich Rodriguez said. said. "We're the option. You "We knew they were going know, the quarterback is to run it, everyone in the sta­
Contact Katie McVoy at
keeping the ball. If Carlyle diurn knew they were going to hands it, it's a carry for us, if run it, the staff knew they mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu .,, 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13  AP poll team· record Miami (48) 5-0 Oklahoma (11) 6-0 Nebraska {1) 7-0 Virginia Tech 6-0 Oregon 6·0 UCLA 5-0 Florida 5-1 Texas 5-1 Michigan 5-1 Fresno State 6-0 Tennessee 3-1 Washington 4-1 BYU 6·0  points 1,481 1,440 1,382 1,279 1,244 1,239 1,067 1,018 1,009 979 806 713 697  scoring summary & stats scoring 1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total 34Notrn Dame 10 7 7 10 10 0 14 0 24West Virginia team statistics ND wvu first downs 23 15 rushes-yards 69-345 37-179 passing yards 70 91 comp-att-int 7-14-1 9-23-1 return yards 174 59 punts-yards 4-141 6-255 fumbles-lost 2-1 1-0 penalties-yards 10-103 6-47 time of possession 37:54 22:06  scoring summary 1st ND· 13:45 Jones 19-yd. run Sella kick, 7-0 \WU· 12:34 Cobourne 60-yd. run Rauh kick, 7-7 ND· 8:19 FG Sella 21-yd., 10•7 ½'VU· 3:54 FG Rauh 33-yd., 10·10 2nd ND· 6:43  1 2 3 4 5 6 1 8 9 10 11 12 13  ESPN/USA Today poll team record points Miami{48) 5~0 1,481 Oklahoma (1) 6-0 1,440 Nebraska {1) 7-0 1,382 Virginia Tech 6-0 1,279 Oregon 6-0 1,244 UCLA 5-0 1,239 Florida 5-1 1,067 Texas 5-1 1,018 Michigan 4-1 1,009 Fresno State 6-0 979 Tennessee 3-1 806 Washington 4-1 713 BYU 6-0 697  
14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22  Maryland Clemson South Carolina Georgia BYU Washington State Auburn Florida State Northwestern  6-0 4-1 5·1 4·1 6-0 6·0 5·1 3-2 4·1  690 636 587 669 599 581 568 285 238  individual statistics passing ND -Holiday 7·14·1 ~WU ­lewis 9·23·1 rushing ND -Holiday 19-139, Fisher 22-129, Jones 23-92, Givens 1-3, Howard 1·2, Lopienski 1·1 J.fl'U -Cobourne 26-176, Smith 2-17, Lewis 8-11  Jones 1-yd. run Sella kick, 1 M 0 3rd wvu -10:11 Nastasi 12-yd. pass tram Lewis Rauh kick, 17-17 iwu-s:37 Johsnon B•yd. pass from Lewis  14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22  Maryland Clemson South Carolina Colorado Washington State Georgia Northwestern Auburn Florida State  6-0 4·1 5-1 5-1 6-0 4-1 4-1 5-1 3·2  690 636 587 449 379 338 320 300 297  - 
23 24 25  Georgia Tech Purdue Toledo  4-2 4·1 5-0  234 222 183  receiving ND -Hunter 3-37, Jones 2-14, Givens 1-10, Owens 1-9 WVU -Johnson 2-26, Braxton 2-24, Brown 1-12, Nastasi 1-12  Rauh kick, 17-24 ND· ,:11 Fisher 25-yd. run Sella kick, 24·24  23 24 25  Toledo Purdue Georgia Tech  5-0 4-1 4-2  249 227 161  
other leading vote getters: Illinois 105, Michigan State 03, Texas A&M 71, Stanford 70, Mississippi 30, Ohio State 28, NOTRE DAME 0  leading tacklers ND -Harrison 7, Weaver 7, Watson 5, Elam 5, Boiman 4 WVU -McIntyre 16, Hackett 13, Kayden 11, Sherrod 10,  4th ND · 10:56 FG Sella 42-yd., 27-24 ND. 7:30  other lea.ding vote getters: Illinois, Michigan State 83, Texas A&M 69, Stanford 52, LSU 46, Marshall, Oregon State 19, NOTRE DAME 0  
Davis 9, King 5, Lehnortt 5  Fisher 55-yd. run Sella kick, 34•24  

... 
O
THE 

Notre Dame 34, West Virginia 24 BSERYER i\1onday, October 15, 200 I 

. RICO CASARES/The Observer 

Notre Dame's David Givens leaps and appears to grab the football during the second quarter. However, when Givens hit the ground, the ball popped out of his hands. 
MOUNTAINEERS BECOME MUDDLED 
Even the sloppy weather conditions didn't slow Notre Dame's rushing game. 
The Irish rushed for 345 yards -the most since last year. Carlyle Iloliday and 
Tony Fisher became the first Notre Dame duo to rush for over 100 vards in a 
game since 1999. And Notre Dame's 34 points were the most they had scored so 
far this season. 









