
Have a great summer
Running for their lives 
Wednesday
The Saint Mary's track and field team 
This will be the second to last issue oJThe 
competes in its last meet before being nixed 
Observer for the 2000-2001 year. The 
as a varsity sport at ·the College. 
Commencement edition will be available May 18. 
MAY2, 
Pullout 
2001 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL. XXXIV NO. 133 
FACULTY SENATE 


Members expect to disband 
• Senate approval of resolution tonight may not result in group's end 

By JASON McFARLEY 
News Editor 
After a month to reflect on the issue, members of the Faculty Senate will likely vote tonight to dis­solve the body. . Senators will consider a resolution to disband at the group's 7 p.m. meeting in McKenna Hall. And while senate leaders say they're uncertain in which direction members are leaning on the measure, the prevail­ing sentiment is that the senate has become ineffective and discounted. 
"Nearly everyone I've talked to 

thinks there is a value to the sen­ate," said Jean Porter, senate chair. "But l don't think we have enough respect from the administration or sufficient support 
from faculty to continue on our present course." 
About a month ago, when she proposed the res­olution to dis­solve the SO­member senate, 

Porter cited wan-Porter ing support from colleagues and a lack of respect from Notre Dame administrators as reasons to consid.er disbanding the group. 
The resolution, introduced at the senate's April 3 meeting, calls for an amendment to the University's Academic Articles. It would strike Article IV Section 3 of the Academic Articles and would have the effect of dissolving the senate. 
But passage of the resolution tonight would not necessarily signal the senate's end. 
University policy dictates that the senate can only recommend changes in the Academic Articles. Thus, if accepted by senators tonight, the measure would still need approval by the Academic Council. University President Father Edward Malloy and the Board of Trustees. 
Also, at tonight's meeting, the 2000-2001 Faculty Senate will adjourn for the last time and six new senators will be seated. According to senate bylaws, the 2001-2002 members could choose to 
see SENATEIpage 1 O 


2 guys, a dream and a burrito place 
ND grad teams with friend to form late-night restaurant 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY Senior Sraff Writer 
It all began with a burrito addiction. 
For John Schreiber and Griffin 
Collins, the owners of South Bend's 
Boracho Burrito restaurant, their love 
affair with the burrito began when 
they were sophomores in high school. 
As soon as they had their drivers 
licenses, they began driving 45 min­
utes from their homes to a burrito 
restaurant iri a Chicago suburb. 
When Collins, a 1999 Notre Dame graduate began school at the University, he was suffering from bur­rito withdrawal after not being able to find a restaurant selling burritos like those he knew from home. 
"When Griffin would come home from Notre Dame~ we would be going to the burrito place all the time. It was in a shady neighborhood but it was open 24-7. 365 days a year," said Schreiber. "It was burritos for break­fast, lunch and dinner when he [Griffin] was home because he didn't have a place to go for burritos when he was in South Bend." 
The lack of a place to get a good bur­rito led to what is fast becoming the late night hangout for the bar crowd after "last call" -"Boracho Burrito." 
During his senior year at Notre Dame. Collins took a class in entrepre­neurship. The class required him to create a business plan for a class pro­ject. Although Collins mapped out a business plan for what would later become "Boracho Burrito," Collins and Schreiber had thought of creating such a business long before. 
Frustrated after a stint in the corpo­

see BURR1TO/page 4 


HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

Board clears accused sex assaulter 
By MYRA McGRIFF Saint Mary's Editor 
A Saint Mary's student accused of 

female-female sexual assault has been 
found not-guilty by a special advisory 
board, according to the alleged victim. 
The victim alleges she was sexually 

assaulted by another Saint Mary's stu­
dent on March 22. The alleged victim and 
the accused both attended a Le Mans Hall 
party where alcohol was consumed by 
both students from 11 p.m. march 21 
until 2 a.m., according to the alleged vic­
tim. The alleged victim returned to her 
room at 4 a.m. on March 22 escorted by 
the accused, according to the. alleged vic­
tim. 
The alleged victim returned to her 

room at 4 a.m. on March 21 escorted by 
the accused, according to the alleged vic­
tim. She awoke in the early hours of 
March 22 and claims her escort was sex­
ually assaulting 
her. A security 
report viewed "They asked if 
by The .there was any wayObserver states 
that I could have 

the alleged vic­
tim was not made it up or ifit 
intoxicated at could have been a the time of the 
dream. They asked 

assault. It is 
what my sexual

not stated whether the orientation was accused was 
and ifthe bruises 

intoxicated at 
were self-inflicted. " 

the time of the assault. After report­alleged sexual 
ing the incident 
assauH victim

to campus 
security March 
26, the incident was referred to Dana 
North, director of residence life, accord­
ing to the alleged victim. The alleged vic­
tim did not file charges with South Bend 
Police Department. 
North compiled a written statement based on reports filed by the alleged vic­tim with Campus Security and College Health Services, the alleged victim said. This statement was presented to the alleged victim on March 30 in a meeting with North. On April 5, North questioned the alleged victim in another meeting, the alleged victim said. North telephoned the alleged victim on April 11 to say North would be unable to make a decision on her own, and she would convene an advi­sory board to pursue potential discipli­nary action, according to the alleged vic­tim. She also said North told her the inci­dent would be resolved before Easter break. 
The board would include two students, two administrators and two faculty mem­bers, according to the alleged victim. 
After the meetings with North, the alleged victim said she attempted to con­tact North several times to determine if the meeting had been scheduled but was 
see ASSAULT/page 10 


Wednesday, May 2, 200 I 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 



Thanks 

One year ago, on the second to last page of this newspaper, Jeff Beam made a farewell cartoon showing a student, hard at work and thinking to himself, "For the past four years. I've worked too much. partied too hard, and slept too little. Man, ifI could do it all over again ... I wouldn't change a thing." 
The title of his cartoon, "Thank You," was just as fitting. 
So in this, probably my last column that will ever be printed, I want to thank everyone that has made these last four years some of the best. 
I want to first thank my parents. A little disclaimer to all of you, grab a Spanish­

English dictionary, you'll 
Jose Cuellar
need it. And another thing, I do not use accents. 
Gracias por todo. La ver­Graphics dad es que no se como estos 
Editor 
ultimos afios volaron y 
Emeritus 
pasaron tan rapido. Pero eso si, Si se pudo! Quiero llegar a casa y que haya mariachi. No se como podria haber terminado sin ustedes. Marni, Papi, Brenda, Brency y toda mi familia ... Gracias. 
Back to English ... 

I want to thank all of my professors for encour­aging me. For giving me guidance and for listen­ing when I needed your help. 
I want to thank everyone working for this pub­lication. It has been a great experience and the long nights, well, will not be missed. Thanks for the dinners, the parties and the trips. You helped a 21-year-old feel six again and cross off one of the items on my Things-to-do-before-l-was-30 list. 
Finally I want to thank every single one of my friends. I cannot name everyone. That would take up too much space. 
Funny how I say that now, someone back home once told me that I would never make any friends and that I would end up hating this place. 
1 was even told that I would end up dropping out. Poop on them. 
Anyway, thank you all for the jokes, the puns, the laughs, the tears and enough pictures to make one go nuts. The crazy random nights that ended up with a drop-off of shame. I'll never for­get the trips to Meijer's, Denny's, Heartland, Boracho's, Fajita Rita Mondays and all those places that made the last four years special. 
I also want to thank those who invited me to their home. I especially want to thank the Allens for adopting me freshman year. 
To those that know me better than I know myself (and you know who you are), without you, this year might have had a turn for the worse. I found the courage to trust you and I am lucky I was not disappointed. It has been the first time that someone was actually looking out for me. It means so much that you care. 
To any one reading this, you might think this is weird and I understand. At the end of it all you too will end up thinking about the same thing. And maybe you too will be crazy enough to tell the world that you are thankful for everything. 
Life will never be the same. And that's a good thing, I want it to change. I do not worry about the future. I don't need to, I am having too much fun. 
Before I leave in May, I plan to enjoy the rest of my time here. It is a great feeling knowing that I will not be alone. 
Oh, and if you go to Boracho Burrito, tell Griffin you want a Yahili; they're awesome. Oh and tell them that Scott and Jose sent you. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene Jason McFarley Laura Kelly Maureen Smithe Graphics 
Nate Phillips Katie McKenna 

Amy Greene 

Production 
Sports 

Anne Marie Mattingly 
Molly McVoy 

Lab Tech 
Viewpoint 

Tony Floyd 
Pac McElwee 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vaacion periods. The Observer is a member of the: A.ssociacc:J Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
Wednesday  Thursday  
. Exhibit: Student Art  . Concert: Symphony  
Exhibition, O'Shaughnessy  Orchestra Spring Concert,  
Galleries, all day.  Washington Hall, 8 p.m.  
. Prayer: Interfaith  . Concert: Acoustic Cafe,  
Christian Night Prayer,  LaFortune Student Center,  
Walsh Hall Chapel,  l0p.m.  
10p.m.  . Movie: "Family Man,"  
DeBartolo 101, 10:30 p.m.  

Friday 
. 
Concert: Swing Dance ­The Tom Milo Band, Joyce Center, 7 p.m. 

. 
Mass: Chapel of Notre Dame Our Mother Mass, Coleman Center, 8 p.m. 


Saturday 
. 
Workshop: Faith and Learning Workshop, McKenna Hall, 9 a.m. 

. 
Movie: "Pay It Forward," DeBartolo 155, 


10:30 p.m. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME 


Riots at Ohio State U. damage reputation 

COLUMBUS, Ohio 
Weekend rioting not only puts stu~ dents health and safety at risk but is ruining the prestige and reputation of Ohio State University and the mar­ketability of its students. 
Ohio State took great measures to educate students and party organizers on safe and appropriate party behav­ior prior to Saturday night's festivities. Educational campaigns were imple­mented to instill pride in students and the place that they call home, said Undergraduate Student Government President Ryan Robinson. 
"It is a programming and educa­tional effort to work with party hosts to have them keep their parties under control," said CGS President Ron Meyers. 
Members of the program met with party hosts on April 24 from seven houses on 13th Avenue and they signed up nine of the parties. The hosts agreed to fence the parties, have sober hosts and have a doorman. 
"To keep the parties under control. the hosts agreed to remove unwanted guests and check IDs. If the hosts would like someone to leave, they could call the police and the police would come and they won't bust the party." Meyers said. 
Meyers said the hosts met with the police on Thursday. "The police worked out with students to keep par­ties under control, cooperate with police and keep the streets clear," Meyers said. 
"Students seem to have a mob men­tality where one person does some­thing, everyone follows that person and then people think that as a group they become less accountable for their actions," said Melissa Koch, USG vice president~elect. 
"Our behavior is a direct indication of the education and degree we as students are receiving," Koch said. 
"I myself am frustrated because I graduate this quarter and my degree and education is being punished by a few people," she said. 

PENN STATE UNIVERSITY 
President discusses racism 
UNIVERSITY PARK, Pa. 

On a Pennsylvania Cable Network show Monday night, Pennsylvania State University President Graham Spanier and two state legislators participated in a panel discus­sion about racism at Penn State, students' safety and the repercussions recent events may have on minority enrollment. "Racism has always existed at a university like ours, and Penn State has been no exception," Spanier said. The show aired as students remained · camped out where they have been since Tuesday night. The sit-in, which participants have dubbed 'the village,' came after a racist death threat was sent to Black Caucus President Lakeisha Wolf. Wolf participated in the live call-in discussion at one point in the evening, telling her view of the events at last Tuesday's "No Hate at Penn State" rally. One of the show's first callers, who identified herself as the vice president of a minority stu­dent association at a Penn State branch campus, asked the group if they thought the threatening letters would drive minorities away from the university. 
HARVARD UNIVERSITY 
Rally draws AFL-CIO president 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 

Supporters of a living wage staged the largest rally in the Yard in more than a decade Monday, as the occupants of Mass. Hall continued their 12-day sit-in and administrators worked behind the scenes to establish a new committee to review Harvard University's wage structure. The 45-minute rally lived up to its billing as "unprecedented," attracting a crowd of about 1,100 to hear AFL-CIO President John 
J. Sweeney offer the Progressive Student Labor Movement (PSLM) a "message of support." Lynne Lyman, student body president of the Kennedy School of Government, left Mass. Hall during the noon rally, 12 days, 22 hours and 58 minutes after entering the building. Lyman's departure leaves about 30 students inside, down from the 48 who entered the building two weeks ago Wednesday. "I hear space in tent city is filling up fast, and I wanted to get out and reserve a spot on Justice Avenue before they were all gone," 
· Lyman told the cheering crowd. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 


94 66 Portland 71 50 78 61 Sacramento 81 55 73 57 St. Louis 85 63 78 61 Tampa 80 67 82 60 Washington DC 80 60 

--~­
Wednesday, May 2, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Campus buildings to open as scheduled in fall 
Observer Staff Report 
When students return to cam­pus next fall, construction will be finished on the new Malloy Philosophy/fheology Hall and the Hayes-Healey-Hurley complex and new construction and plan­ning will be in progress. 
The Malloy Philosophy/fheology Hall. located between Decio and O'Shaughnessy Hall, will house the offices of Theology and Philosophy faculty and graduate students. The Hayes-Healy Center and Hurley Hall, which have been undergoing renovation, were for­merIy home to the College of Business Administration and most recently administrative offices during the renovation of the Main Building. When the buildings re­open this fall, they will contain the offices for the departments of math and international relations, in addition to classrooms. 

While these construction pro­jects are completed, three addi­tional projects will begin during the summer or next year. There will be additions onto Stepan Chemistry Hall and the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. Construction of the new Marie DeBartolo Performing Arts Center on the DeBartolo quad will also begin. 
During the next year. the University will work the Ayers/Saint/Gross architectural firm to update the campus' mas­ter plan. During the update of the master plan, future building placement. open space, campus landscaping and academic space planning will be considered. The process, which was last complet­ed during 1994. will take 12 to 18 months to complete. 
A major issue to be investigated during the drafting of this master plan is pedestrian traffic across Juniper road. Since this issue was last studied almost 15 years ago, the Pasquerilla Center, Band Building, Fischer Graduate Residences, Early Childhood Development Center, Eck Baseball Stadium and Rolfs Recreation Center, as well as new parking areas were all construct­ed, requiring students and faculty to cross Juniper Road to reach the new buildings from the main part of campus. Currently there are more than 20,000 pedestrian crossings of Juniper a day. 
When construction begins on the new science teaching facility in 2003, the number of daily crossings is expected to increase to 40,000. In reaching a solution to increase the safety of pedestri­ans and drivers, the University will solicit the opinions of the members of the University com­munity who cross the road and community members who drive on Juniper. The University expects to present local officials a plan of action for Juniper by the end of the summer. 
THE HOPPER 




SAYS:™ 
LET'S MAKE AMEAL. 


Now for 99¢ you can get fries and a COKE® when you buy a WHOPPER® Sandwich. 
Come into BURGER KING® today and enjoy a medium order of crispy, golden brown fries, and an ice-cold medium soft drink for just 99¢ when you order a delicious flame-broiled WHOPPER~ 
In The Land Of Burgers, WHOPPER®ls King. 
For a limited time only Price and participation may vary. 
The Huddle, LaFortune Student Center 
TM & ~ 2001 Burger King Brands, Inc. All nghts reserved. 

SARAH FUCHS/The Observer University offlclals expect construction of Malloy Philosophy/Theology Hall to be completed this fall. The 
building will house faculty offices. 

lt1s all the buzz 
Get your head together. Crop it, color it, curl it comb it, chunk it, crunch it. 


... 

Wednesday, May 2, 2001 
page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Burrito 
continued from page I 
rate world after graduation, Griffin called up Schreiber and proposed opening what became Boracho Burrito in South Bend. 
"At the time, I was running a night club in Chicago and Griffin was working in corporate America," said Schreiber. "He [Collins] didn't like having a boss and having people to answer to so when he called me up, I think we were both ready to get away from what we were currently doing." 
What followed was a process of scouting locations in South Bend for the restaurant that began in February 2000 as well as meetings with various people from the area. 
"It took quite a while to get it [Boracho Burrito] up and run­ning," said Schreiber. "Last summer we spent the whole summer making phone calls in the morning and golfing in the afternoons and then if people hadn't called us back we would call them back in the evening. We averaged about one meeting a day. Last summer was great because we really improved our golf games." 
However, after checking nine potential sites to use for the restaurant and being denied for various reasons from landlords to neighbors to septic tanks, Schreiber and Collins found the restaurant's current location at 1724 N. Ironwood Drive and began construction on the restaurant on Nov. 8. Construction ended Feb. 15. 
"All the locations were around campus and Turtle Creek apart­ments," said Schreiber. "This location is actually of all that we checked out, the farthest away from campus." 
The restaurant officially opened for business on Feb. 18 but was not open for full hours. Schreiber and Collins consider Feb. 19 their first official day of business. Currently they are open Wednesday through Saturday from 11 a.m. to 4 a.m. and Sunday through Tuesday from 11 a.m. to 2 a.m. 
They've kept the menu at the restaurant simple and inexpen­sive to cater to the late night, after-bar crowd. 
"We took our favorite burrito recipes from all the places that we went to in Chicago," said Schreiber. "We give people a lot of food and keep it inexpensive because we know they don't have a lot of money." 
According to Schreiber. the burritos never fall below 1.5 pounds and if ordered with extra meat can top the two-pound mark. Besides burritos ($4.25), the menu also features quesadil­las and tacos. 
Coming up with the name for the restaurant was the easy part. 
"When I was working in a club in Chicago, we had a guy who called all the patrons 'boracho' which means drunk in Spanish," said Schreiber. "There are a lot of different interpretations for the meaning of the name because first of all, a lot of our clientele after a certain time of night is 'boracho' or drunk. But also, the size of the burritos will leave you burrito drunk. When you put one of those burritos down, it will knock you out and you will need a nap." 
Schreiber and Collins also ran 
into conflicting spellings of the 
word 'boraccho' which they 
learned that depending where 
one is from, it can be spelled 
with two 'r's' or one 'r'. 
"We decided to go with the one 'r' spelling because we thought it would be easier to pronounce and also because it was one less letter we had to pay for the sign," said Schreiber. 
The only problem Schreiber sees with the name is that "we may have a problem sponsoring a little league team," he said. 
Since the restaurant opened, Boracho Burrito has been Schreiber's and Collins' life. With five other employees who do the cooking. either Schreiber or Collins is at the restaurant each day working the cash regis­ter. This means they each work at least five 12-hour days and one 16-to 17-hour day per week. 
"For now, this is my life," said Schreiber. "My father is a cardi­ologist and we actually talked to him about how to work out our schedules for hours we are working because the hours we are putting in are similar to what he did during his residen­cy. What we have worked out now is good because it affords us each one-day away and that helps quite a bit. In the begin­ning before we each started hav­ing one day away from here, we were starting to get burned out and getting short with the cus­tomers." 
Schreiber and Collins first day off came on Easter Sunday. They ordered pizza. 
Still, the pair say working more than 10 hours a week at their own burrito restaurant has not left them repulsed at the mere sight of a burrito. 
"I could never get sick of bur­ritos," said Schreiber. "A while ago I went six months eating a burrito every day. When I get sick of chicken burritos then I switch to steak burritos and you can have a chorizo and egg bur­rito for breakfast." 
Both Schreiber and Collins site the stress that has come with the restaurant as the most difficult thing they have faced since opening the restaurant. Schreiber lost 41 pounds in seven weeks, he said. 
"It was just stress and all the work and being too stressed to eat," said Schreiber. "It's really difficult working all the hours and still being as friendly as you can. It's more than that though. It's also the stress of building a successful business. You want the food to be good and you want the customers to keep coming back so there are a lot of things to worry about. 
"We definitely had a good idea of what we were getting into and that we would be working this many hours but I just thought I would be able to handle it a lot easier," said Schreiber. 
Nevertheless. neither Schreiber nor Collins has regrets. 
"The best thing is that I am my own boss. That's the best thing by far," said Collins. 
Schreiber estimates 60 percent of the restaurant's business comes from area college stu­dents. Enter Boracho Burrito on a Thursday, Friday, or Saturday night after 2:30 a.m. and Schreiber's statistic is proven. 
"Between 2:30 a.m. and 4 a.m. are our busiest hours on Thursday, Friday and Saturday nights," said Schreiber. "It's not unusual to see a line going out the door. It's been so busy that with the five booths we have in the restaurant there have been six people sitting in a booth plus people sitting on the floor eat­ing." 
Dealing with the somewhat intoxicated crowd hasn't been too difficult, according to Schreiber and Collins. 

"For the most part, they're entertaining," said Collins. 
During one late weekend night, no one could hear Collins calling out the order numbers because half of the restaurant would yell 'boracho' and the other half yelled 'burrito', said Schreiber. 
"I would describe that particu­lar crowd as being rambunc­tious, but not violent," said Schreiber. 
Boracho Burrito has also developed a crowd of regular customers ranging from college students to cops. 
"We've developed some great regulars." said Schreiber. "I 
~-·--'' ----­
have one guy who has come in for 15 days in a row ordering a chicken burrito with no cheese. We also get a lot of cops who come in. Sometimes they order out and it seems like they are ordering out food for the whole station. Some of them come in and have their favorite booth." 
Another regular has been coined "steak quesadilla guy" or "red salsa guy" by Schreiber and Collins. 
"He has come in at least eight times a week for over a month, and eight times a week is a con­servative estimate," said Collins. "Sometimes he will come in three times a day. He always orders steak quesadillas with no tomatoes and always extra red salsa. We think he drinks the stuff. He might have some issues." 
Future plans for Boracho Burrito include extending hours next school year on Tuesday through Saturdays until 5 a.m., eventually acquiring televisions, and sponsoring a contest with the Notre Dame art department to get a mural painted on one of the restaurant's walls. 
"Eventually, we would like to see this become a chain," said Schreiber. "Of course we'd keep South Bend as the headquarters since this is the original Boracho 


uve Brotherhood. 
As a Brother in the Congregation of Holy Cross you will share in a rich tradition of unselfish service and become a brother to.many. 

jior more infonnation about beginning a new life as a Brother of Holy Cross, contact Br. Donald Gibbs, C.S.C. 
P.O. Box 460, Notre Dame, IN 46556 e-mail: dgibbs@hcc-nd.edu 
(219)-251-2222 



ATI 

Wednesday, May 2, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Western India battles drought: Still recovering from a devastating earthquake, western India is now battling a drought that is hampering the region's. economic recovery, officials said Tuesday. Gujarat and parts of neighboring Rajasthan state have been declared drought areas following two years of light monsoon rains. 
Dutch plan drive-thru drug shops: 
Dutch authorities plan to open two drive-thru shops next year where "drug tourists" can legally buy marijuana and hashish. The offi­cials in Venlo say they want to make it easier on Germans who flock to the southern Dutch border town for drugs by opening two coffee shops with drive-thrus selling drugs such as marijuana and hashish. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
FBI Chief to retire: FBI Director Louis Freeh announced Tuesday he is retiring, cut­ting short a term marked by conflict over Clinton-era fund-raising allegations and the recent arrest of a veteran agent accused of spying. Freeh said he would leave by June. eight years into his 10-year term.The announcement came amid investigations into FBI security procedures following allegations that one of the bureau's senior counterintelli­gence agents, Robert Hanssen, had handed 
U.S. secrets to Moscow over a 15-year period. 
Teachers walk out to protestfunds: Angered by state education plans, teachers in Seattle and three suburban dis­tricts staged a one-day walkout Tuesday, shutting down classes for 70,000 students. ..We're doing this because every day our stu­dents are being shortchanged," said John Dunn, president of the Seattle Education Association. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Governor supports charter schools: A bill that would allow charter schools to operate in Indiana could reopen the school door for some of the nearly 2,000 students expelled from classrooms in Lake County yearly. Governor Frank O'Bannon is expected to sign the legislation. Indiana will become the 38th state to allow charter schools, which are autonomous public schools that are not part of a larger district or under the control of a traditional school board.. 
l\rlarket Watch April 30 
Dow 
10,734.97 -75.08 
Jones 

Composite Same: 
Volume: 21-1 · NIA 
AMEX: 951.78 +293 NASDAQ: 2,116.24 -+40.56 NYSE: 634.683 -281 S&P 500: 1,249.46 -359 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
ORACLE CORP (0RCL) -5.77 -0.99 16.16 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSC0) +8.85 +1.38 16.98 NASDAQ 100 INDX (QQQ) +2.21 +1.00 46.15 SUN MICR0SYSTEM (SUNW) -1.50 -0.26 17 .12 JDS UNIPHASE (JDSU) +11.06 +2.13 21.39 
CHINA 

AFP Photo A U.S. Navy aircraft, like the one pictured here, was involved In a midair collision in international airspace with a fighter aircraft from China. The plane made an emergency landing at a military airfield on the island of Hainan, China. 
U.S. spy plane team arrives in China 
Associated Press 
HAIKOU 
U.S. technicians arrived on the southern Chinese island of Hainan on Tuesday to figure out how to retrieve a damaged Navy spy plane stranded since colliding with a fight­er jet. 
The team from Lockheed Martin, the main builder of the EP-3E spy plane, will inspect the aircraft on Wednesday, Pentagon spokesman Navy Lt. Cmdr. Terry Sutherland said. 
The plane is believed to be held at the Lingshui air base on Hainan. where it made an emergency land­ing April 1 after the colli­sion over the South China Sea. 
The collision touched off a tense 11-day standoff between Beijing and Washington over the 24­member U.S. crew's return. The confrontation sent ties to their lowest point since the United States accidentally bombed the Chinese Embassy in Yugoslavia two years ago. 
On Tuesday, departing 
U.S. Ambassador Joseph Prueher said the sooner the plane is returned to the United States, the sooner relations can mend. 
"The airplane is sort of a corrosive element right now in our relationship. It's a reminder of a hard spot, and we need to clean that up and get on with things," said Prueher, who played a key role in win­ning the U.S. crew's free­dom. 
Ending a 17-month tenure in Beijing, the ambassador spoke to reporters at Beijing's international airport before boarding a flight to the United States with his wife, Suzanne. 
He expressed hope that China's allowing the U.S. inspection team to visit would speed efforts by the two countries to put the spy plane incident behind them. 
"I hope they'll get a look at it, make an assessment. That's what we have to do first and then get on to get that out," Prueher said. 
The U.S. team will have to figure out how to get the $80 million high-tech plane back to the United States -­whether it can be repaired and flown back or must be shipped back in pieces. 
Accounts from both sides indicate the plane lost its nose cone and damaged at least one of its four pro­peller engines in the colli­sion. The impact pushed the U.S. plane into an 8,000-foot dive before the pilot l'egained control. 
Workers mark May Day with protests 
capitalists activists who pelted them Berlin authorities had banned anti­
Associated Press 
with bottles and rocks. smashed cars capitalist demonstrations this year in BERLIN and threw up flaming street barri­hopes of breaking the cycle of violence 
Far-left demonstrators battled police cades. they say draws "riot tourists." But pro­in the streets of Berlin and Sydney on On the other side of the city, jack­testers ignored the ban: In one case, Tuesday, while hundreds of thousands booted skinheads hoisted banners call­police said they confronted up to 6,000 of workers from Russia to Bangladesh ing for foreigners' expulsion. Police people in a Berlin park. marched in traditional May Day labor ringed far-right marchers to protect "This is a revolutionary Labor Day parades. them from counterdemonstrators and I'm demonstrating against the 
Proclaiming causes from anti-global­blowing whistles and chanting "Nazis capitalist system," said Vincent ization to prisoners' rights, demonstra­out." Gephard, 23. tors marched, sang and occasionally Skinheads also rallied in several Backed by armored cars, police scuffied with police in cities across other German cities, including chased protesters through a square, Asia, Europe and Latin America. Frankfurt. where they clashed with dragging dozens of demonstrators 
Riot police in Berlin turned water leftists. About 150 demonstrators were away. About 150 people were arrest­cannons on hundreds of young anti-arrested, police said. ed. police said. 


Do you drive Italian? 


Why not speak it, too? 
Take Italian this summer! ROIT 101, 3 credits ROIT 102, 3 credits 
Complete two semesters of foreign language requirements in six weeks. 

page 7
Wednesday, May 2, 200 I The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Plans continue for dining hall 
the new dining hall in struction of the new Student
By MYRA McGRIFF 
September or October of Center will mark the start of 
Saint Mary's Editor 
2001. phase two of the Master Plan. The new dining hall will sit Surrounding the center will Although Saint Mary's stu­kiddycorner from the existing be most of the offices and dents will not see a new din­dining hall. landing some­programs that now reside ing hall upon their return to where in the middle of within Haggar center. 
campus this fall semester, Le Mans parking lot. Included in these offices will scheduled planning for the Depending exactly on where be the SURV and campus project is continuing as the building will be built, ministry departments. planned. Dennis said new parking lots The completion of the 
Drawing bid documents will have to be built. Master Plan is dependent on over the summer, Keith "We'll be looking at differ­having sufficient funds. Dennis, vice president of ent options for parking," said Although the bid documents finance and administration, Dennis. may be ready by September hopes ground breaking will However, the dining hall is or October. the finances for happen at the earliest some­only the first stage of the the project may not be avail­time in December 2001. Master building plan. Dennis able. To prepare the financial 
The committee hopes to says the projected time to budget, Dennis said the com­draw up a bid and continue complete the first phase is mittee has already received fundraising for the projected about 18 months from now. permission from BOT [Board 
18.5 million-dollar project. On the completion of the of Trustees] to pursue alter­They hope to begin building dining hall project, the con-native finance options. 
STUDENT SENATE 
Moscona, members eye work for 2001-02 
Rakow urges off-campus safety 
By ERIN LaRUFFA 
News Wrirer 
With its work for the 2000-2001 
school year winding down. the 
Student Senate is already planning 
a long list of topics to address 
when it reconvenes in the fall. 
Plans involve everything from 
scholarships to social space to 
drinking water. . 
One area the Senate will work 
on is faculty service, tenure and 
promotion. 
"Right now, students and faculty 
aren't encouraged to intermingle 
very much," said student body vice 
president Brian Moscona, who 
chairs the senate. Instead, accord­
ing to Moscona, the University 
encourages professors to do 
research. 
Moscona and Carroll Hall sena­
tor Jesse Flores agree that prac­
tice does not benefit students. 
''The best way for us to learn is 
by interacting with our professors 
to learn from them," Moscona 
said. 
Flores said the senate's 
University Affairs Committee. 
which he chairs. will investigate 
how professors go through the 
tenure process and how to 
increase student-faculty interac­
tion. 
Senators will also try to get 
excused absences for seniors so 
students can go to job interviews 
without being penalized in their 
classes. 
"Companies don't operate on 
the weekends," Moscona said. 
"Teachers should be more under­
standing." 
The senate will also research 
different aspects of financial aid, 
according to Moscona. Part of that 
research will focus on the possibil­
ity of creating scholarships based 
on academic merit, community 
service and leadership. 
The senate also intends to look · 
into funding for the College ofArts 
and Letters. Moscona and Flores 
said. 
"They don't even have clocks in 
their building," said Moscona. 
referring to the College of Art and 
Letters' O'Shaughnessy Hall. He 
said that the senate wants to 
ensure "equality for all students, 
no matter what their major is." 
"It's not fair for me as a busi­
ness major to have ... first-class 
facilities, whereas ifI were an Arts 
and Letters major, I would be 
stuck in O'Shaughnessy," Flores 
said. "We all pay the same 
tuition." 
"There's so much money in the College of Business," said Moscona, adding that the College of Engineering will also soon be getting a new building. 
Through its gender committee, the senate will work on improving resources for victims of sexual assault. Moscona said. 
"Right not, we're trying to get a counselor hired to deal with sexu­al assault," he said. That same counselor, if hired, may also deal with eating disorders at Notre Drune. 
Furthermore, the senate will also continue working to improve student body elections, according to Moscona. 
"It was much better this year, but there's still room for improve­ment," he said. 
Another major area the senate plans to work on next year is use of space in dorms and other University buildings. Flores explained senators want to find out what campus space students 
are using and what they would 
like to see added. 
For example, Moscona said sen­
ators have been talking about ren­
ovating the basement of 
LaFortune with the Student 
Activities Office, which controls 
the student center. 
In addition, the senate would 
like to increase 24-hour space on 
North Quad, possibly by adding a 
Reckers-style restaurant to either 
LaFortune Student Center or 
North Dining Hall. The University 
will probably be building such a 
restaurant on North Quad within 
the next few years, Moscona said, 
but the senate would like to create 
something that students could use 
in the meantime. 
Extending North Dining Hall's 
hours would also be more conve­
nient for students on North Quad, 
according to Alumni Hall senator 
Matt La.Fratta. 
"We're trying to get North 
Dining Hall opened later hours 
during the week," he said. 
Currently, the facility closes at 7 
p.m. 
Another facility that figures into 
the senate's plans is the Joyce 
Center. Moscona said \here is a 
possibility the University will make 
the JACC available for event plan­
ning in the corning year. 
"That would definitely help us if 
we had that nice facility instead of 
Stepan," said Moscona. 
The senate will also address 
accessibly to campus facilities for 
disabled students next year, 
according to Moscona. 
"We want to make sure that 
everything is convenient for stu­
dents with disabilities," he said. 
Other senate initiatives next 
year will focus on issues within 
dorms. 
For instance, the senate's 
Residents Life Committee will 
research water quality on campus. 
particularly in older dorms and 
buildings, according to LaFratta, a 
co-chair of the committee. 
LaFratta said his committee will 
try to gain consistent access to 
dorms, so that any Notre Dame 
student can enter any dorm dur­
ing non-parietal hours with a stu­
dent ID card. 
Another issue Lafratta would 
like to look into is having maids 
come into dorms on the weekends 
to clean bathrooms, although he 
added that he is not sure yet ifthe 
idea is "feasible." 
"Usually on Saturday and 
Sunday morning, the bathrooms 
in some of the dorms are pretty 
bad," La.Fratta said. 
Phone solicitations are an addi­
tional topic the Senate hopes to 
address. Lafratta said he and 
Stanford senator Aldo Tesi will be 
meeting with Bill Kirk, assistant 
vice president of the Office of 
Residence Life. next week to dis­
cuss the subject. 
Notre Dame students frequently receive phone calls from corpora­tions, particularly credit card com­panies. Lafratta said he is not sure how companies get students' phone numbers. 
Although he expects the senate to deal with numerous issues over the next school year, Moscona is confident that the group will accomplish a great deal of what it sets out to do. 
"The role of a senator is very time consuming and people know that going into it. All of the sena­tors are very dedicated," he said. "They're all excited about the year, and I am too." 
ByJASON McFARLEY News Editor 
Criminals identify off-campus students as prime targets for victimization, Rex Rakow, director of Notre Dame Security/Police, said Tuesday. 
At a 45-minute informa­tional session, Rakow told students planning to move off campus in the fall that they will likely experience security concerns that were not part of their on-campus experience. 
"It's important when you 

move off campus to know Rakow what's going on around you," Rakow said. "Students are prime victims for burglars, robbers and other criminals." 
Rakow said students' structured schedules allow perpetrators to pick up on residenis' pat­
terns of being home. Also, students' apartments and houses are often violated because they are left open to visitors and partygoers, he said. 
Rakow recommended that students vary their routines and get to know their neighbors. 
He also passed out pamphlets detailing safety when walking and driving and a women-only self-defense program sponsored by NDSP. 
Rakow said being mindful of safety tips would not guarantee students' security. 
"Despite all the precautions you take, you still can't ensure that nothing bad will happen to you," Rakow said. 
The talk Tuesday followed the April 12 and 13 armed robberies of two off-campus student residences. The crimes took place at homes on East Howard Street and Turtle Creek Apartments and involved at least a dozen stu­dent victims at each residence. 
The Office of the Student Body President sponsored Tuesday's session. Student govern­ment officials are planning a similar event in the fall. 
The University ofNotre Dame's The Iohn /. Reilly Center for Science, Technology and Values 
Is pleased to announce that the following students have been awarded the distinction of 
Iohn I, Reilly Scholar 
In The Five Year Double Degree Program in Arts and Letters/Engineering 
Class of 2001 
Christopher John Russo Mario Matthew Suarez 


Now Renting 1 & 2 Bedroom Apartment Homes Starting at $466.00 Gourmet Kitchens, Spacious Closets, Laundry Facilities, Indoor Swimming Pool, Exercise Room & Party Rooms Located on Bus Line Minutes from Downtown, Universities & Shopping View our Model Daily Mon , Fri 9 am , 6 pm Saturday , 10 am , 6 pm Sunday , Noon , 4 pm 3001 East Jefferson Blvd. South Bend, IN 46615 · 219-232-3333 www.parkjefferson.com 
SE~-.._C>~ L~L '7-._S-._T LC> Tl:)E= c;;;~C>-C-TC> 
~1'-:1 C::, .S~C:~EC::, l:)E ~~T ~ ~-._l_-i_c:~ 

. 
.a celebration_ offour years offriendship in P.rayer, story and song 
9:00pm, Thu.rsday, ~ay 17, 2001 
Sacred mu.sic 0£ the ~otre r>ame Folk Choir an.cl the ~otre i=>ame G-lee Clu.b 
Beginning at the Basilica at 9:00pn-z, folloUJed by a candlelight procession to the Grotto 


l
! 
l
. 
g 
I
,1 
1 ., 
J 
·,'. 
.. ,. 
l 
i 
{ 
' 
~ 
Ji 
1
j
,J 
i /'~:i 
I 
It 
x
'i ·! 
)*-~ 
~ 
~ 



Wednesday, May 2, 2001 page 9
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Rectors Dougherty, Doyle will not return in fall 
By ANDREW THAGARD News Writer 
When Notre Dame students return to campus after sum­mer vacation, they may notice the absence of two familiar faces. Father T o m Doyle, rec­tor of Keough Hall, and Sister A n n e Dougherty, 

Dougherty
rectress of Howard. are leaving the University to pursue other interests. 
Dougherty. a Franciscan sis­ter, is transferring to St. Bonnaventure University and Doyle, a Holy Cross priest, is entering graduate school to pursue an MBA. 
Dougherty was asked by her order to apply for a position at St. Bonnaventure, a university 
may we grow as contemplative women of prayer, dedicating ourselves to those in need, seeking justice 
. ~ 
-
~ 
~ ~ 
·5. 
VI 
0
"' 
VI 3
=o 
"O
0 ~ 
VI
l..!J VI 
.c o· 
-~­
C 0 ~ ...
0 
C 
~ 
0. 
<V 
<V 
::J ~ a ~~-~~k.~...n(i&O:~xpffl~ ~
-0 C 
VI 
->. 
a\N~ekend for Oialogue
n:, 
-0
... 
<V 
.c 
a weekend to 
n:, 
-0 
CV 
.::! 
0 
.c 
?: 
C 
-
n:, 
VI C 
n:, 
.!:::! 
C 
E 
0 
-0 
n:, 
VI 
n:, 
C 
Q) 
"iii 
0 
<V 
C 
·;:: 
<V 
.c 
n:, 
-
u 
....: 
VI 


run by the Franciscan friars. She will serve as vice presi­dent for university ministries, which entails overseeing the campus ministry department. social concerns center and possibly teaching. 
"I was flattered and honored that the friars called our general manager to see if there was someone qualified to do the

Doyle 
job," 
Dougherty said. "She thought of me immediately." 
The offer took the Howard Hall rectress by surprise. Her contract with Notre Dame was supposed to last three years but her transfer comes after just one. 
"I was expecting a call in three years and then returning to my home region [of 
for further information: 
discerning discipleship in the dominican tradition weekend retreat at 
adrian dominican sisters' campus 1257 east siena heights drive adrian, michigan contact: nancy murray, op S17 266 3533 voc@admc-op.org 
Tampa]." Dougherty said. "At first I thought of 24 reasons why I shouldn't go." 
Dougherty's superior, how­ever, encouraged her to think and pray about the offer. Eventually, she accepted the position after an interview. 
"I wanted to honor her and honor my vowels," she said. "Once I went for the interview ... [I realized] it was right up my alley." 
Although Dougherty loves Notre Dame, she is looki,ng forward to the more intimate nature of St. Bonnaventure, a smaller school with 2,500 undergraduates and 300 grad­uate students. 
"It's a very small campus and Franciscan oriented which tends to be simpler," she said. 
Dougherty is also excited to have the opportunity to work with the dean of the Franciscan Institute, an orga­nization that educates Franciscans for work around the world. 
Although she looks forward 
ADRIAN DOMINICAN 
www.op.org/adrian
SISTERS 

#1 NoiRilJAME 
B ·""--'-""'·"' ~ '1ft 
TO' .YI! 
vs. Western Michigan 5pm 
Frank Eck Stadium 
to her new position, she said 
she will miss the Notre Dame 
community. 
"I enjoyed being a rectress ... I like the community experi­ence," she said. "I felt like I was building up a communi­
ty... Kate Cawley, Howard Hall co-president, said she and the hall will miss their rectress. "When she first came, we 
were all a little anxious," 
Cawley said. "[but] she jumped 
into it. She was really great for 
the community." 
"We're going to be really sad· to see her go but it's a great opportunity," she continued. 
Like Howard, Keough Hall is also saying goodbye to their rector. Doyle has spent a total of 13 years at Notre Dame ­five as Keough Hall rector. He feels, however, that now is a good opportunity to pursue an 
MBA. 
Doyle is not certain which school to attend next fall. He applied, and was accepted to, the University of Washington, Kellogg Business School at Northwestern University. and Harvard University. He will make his decision in a week and is considering Harvard most seriously. 
In addition to serving as a rector, Doyle has been teach­ing business ethics at the Mendoza College of Business. He feels an MBA will allow him to pursue these interests here or wherever he is called. 
"This is something I've been praying about for the last 

No Summer Plans ?? Here is a three credit 
• Service-Learning opportunity 
• $1,900 Scholarship/3 credits (additional $1000.00 from Americorps available) 
•1'!!!!9'!!!~•~11!!!~ • 8 Weeks volunteer work with . ~­[tl:l..WJ an underserved population f "l'ft£""t ;;;•~•, ;.0.: • room and board provided < ,.. "" 
CONCERNS 
Sponsored by UNO Alumni Clubs 
(ND studtmts only) 
Applications: Center for Social Concerns 
Projects available: 
Albuquerque Dismas House (community with ex-offenders) Columbus, GA Stewart Home (transitional home) Evansville, IN project of choice Hartford, CT House of Bread and Vermont camp (kids) Indianapolis, Il'J 2 -inner city summer day camps Kalamazoo migrant worker ministry-(Spanish needed) Marion, IN Family Services (abuse programs) Nappanee, IN Boys &: Girls Oub NW Indiana Clinic Omaha, NE Boystown -home for children (car) . . . San Antonio Pre-Engineering program for H.S. nunonties Savannah, GA St. Marys Home for children (M -21 yr.) South Dakota homeless shelter &: reservation youth camp Springfield, IL Women's Care&: St. John's Hospital {F) Tulsa, OK Neighborhood project SLC, Utah Kidstart -homeless four year olds, pre-schoo.l Ventura, CA Emergency services (car) 
D.C. St. Ann's Infant and Maternity home + others 
Nan Cook 1-7867 or Tra 1-9402 
#9 NOTRE DAME 
three years," he said. "I've been engaged by Holy Cross to continue my studies_" 
Although the decision was a difficult one for Doyle, he did not make it alone. 
"It's been part of a three year conversation," Doyle said. 
The rector said that the Notre Dame community will always have a special place in his heart, especially Keough Hall. 
"The things I'll miss most are working with the [hall] staff," Doyle said. "They've been so talented and gener• ous. Ifs a privilege I don't feel I deserve." 
"I'll miss those exciting times of Freshman Orientation ... and that change from fear and anticipation to a sense that they belong," Doyle con­tinued. 'Tm going to miss cel­ebrating· Eucharist and recon­ciliation here [too]." 
Doyle would consider returning to Notre Dame in the future but said that the deci­sion was not for him to make. 
"That's up to the congrega­tion of the Holy Cross," he said as he took the time to thank his Holy Cross brothers for helping him to "grow up." 
In addition to serving as Keough Hall rector, Doyle has been active in campus min­istry with the freshman retreats and the Business school. 
Dougherty has been involved with Pax Christi, the Center for Social Concerns and plan­ning retreats. 
., II I 
-------------· ··-· 
Wednesday, May 2, 2001 
page 10 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
was granted opportunity to A Saint Mary's security offi­cross-examine the alleged cer testified at 9 p.m. after
Assault 
victim, however, because the both the alleged victim and alleged victim had not heard the accused left the room,
continued from page 1 
the accused's testimony, she according to the alleged vic­referred to Linda Timm, vice was not granted the same tim. Following the officer's president of Student Affairs. opportunity, the alleged vic­statement, the board deliber­Timm's secretary referred tim said. The board also ated before delivering its not the alleged victim back to asked questions of the guilty verdict at 10 p.m., North, according to the alleged victim, she said. according to the alleged vic­alleged victim. "They asked if there was tim. 
The date for the meeting any way that I could have "Dana North called me in was finally set for made it up and she said that after look­Tuesday at 6 p.m. or if it could ing at the evidence the jury The alleged vic­"/ am leaving school have been a found her [the accused] not in tim brought two now. I don 't think it ·s dream," the violation, but the jury is con­character wit­alleged vic­cerned about my well being
fair I have to walk 
nesses to the tim said. and hopes I seek counseling," 
around campus 
hearing in the "They asked the alleged victim said. conference room seeing her. I don ·t what my Saint Mary's administrators in the office of sexual ori­were unable to be reached in
think it's fair I was 
residence life. entation is their offices early Wednesday 
treated this way...
Both witnesses and if the morning. Timm declined attended the bruises comment before the hearing party the night of alleged sexual could have Monday. the alleged been self­The alleged victim will not
assault victim
assault. inflicted." return to campus in the fall. 
The alleged vic-A report however, will finish the tim waited for 90 minutes by College Health Services remainder of the semester at outside of the conference from March 23 was also pre­Saint Mary's. room while the accused gave sented to the board, accord­"I am leaving school now," testimony, she said. ing to the alleged victim. The she said. "I don't think it's Following the accused's testi­alleged victim claims the fair I have to walk around mony, the alleged victim said report confirmed physical campus seeing her. I don't she gave testimony with the evidence of bruising and pos­think it's fair I was treated accused present. The accused sible assault. this way." 

j 
Senate 
continued from page I 
revoke the resolution, if approved, and continue the senate's existence. 
An April 18 forum to discuss the proposal drew about 70 Notre Dame professors ­both senate and non-senate members -who expressed reservations about continuing the body as it exists now. Many suggested scrapping the senate and forming a faculty union. 
At the forum, Porter said she intended to ask the sen­ate's executive committee to endorse the resolution. 
On Tuesday, Porter said she plans to pass chairship to Phil Quinn when the resolution comes to the floor at tonight's meeting and vote in favor of disbanding. 
"Unless I hear something that really convinces me that the senate can continue to play an effective role in facul­ty governance, I believe I'll vote to approve [the resolu­tion]," Porter said. 
While he will not vote on the proposal tonight, Quinn said, "I've concluded very reluctantly that the senate ought to vote to dissolve itself." 
Both Porter and Quinn said if senators move to disband, unionizing might be a viable option for faculty representa­tion. 
They also suggested that revitalizing the local chapter of the American Association of University Professors would be a feasible alternative to continuing the senate. Porter said she has been in contact with national AAUP leaders about reviving the on-campus chapter. 

Accenture is pleased to announce that the following University of Notre Dame graduates have accepted positions with our organization: 
Kristina Bauchman Anthony Bianco Cathleen Brough Richard Bull Karen Callan Kathleen Coates Abigail Cocquyt Donald Doan Kevin Dowdell Matthew Ford Michael Gehrke Christopher Gorski Matthew Grunewald Zachary Gustafson Michael Hogan Michael Kane Danielle Klayman Robert Koch · Darren Kraft Patrick Maloblocki Reginald McKnight Craig Murray Lynne Noelke Jaclyn Persin Gina Pierson James Plummer Martiqua Post Dustin Pridmore Christopher Quinlan Matthew Quinn Nicole Rodgers Joseph Schlesier Emily Schmitt Derrick Shenk Colleen Stacy Shannon Stanley Thomas Steinbach 
B. David Tyler Brendan Vamos Alison Weltner Jovan Willford Bethany Wilson Matthew Yung 
We would also like to welcome the following summer interns: 
Kelly Keegan Nathan Morin 
>
accenture
• Consulting •Technology• Outsourcing • Alliances • Venture Capital 
By MYRA McGRIFF 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Resident Hall Advisors kicked off a new program to get students motivated about volunteering. The program, called Hands and Hearts, came into fruition March of 2001, but took a year of planning. 
Working closely with the SURV office, Sarah Chaudoir, a junior and community aware­ness committee chair, gave life to the Hands and Hearts pro­gram. 
"I wanted to pull all the pro• grams together as well as rec­ognize what students are doing," said Chaudoir. 
She accomplished this goal by creating a program that involved all of the residence halls and encouraged them to keep a log of volunteer hours during a set period of time. 
For the first competition the time period set ran from March 10 to April 23. After tal­lying up all of the hours in pro­portion to the number of resi­dents for each hall. Regina Hall was announced the win­ner, with an average of 50 vol­unteer minutes per resident. The hall members will receive a trophy -a colorfully deco­
"The more you get involved the more you want to do." 
Sarah Chaudoir community awareness committee chair 
rated drawer unit. The trophy, designed by art major Eileen Scubulek, represents the pro­gram as a whole. 
"A volunteer does not just have one characteristic. Therefore each drawer repre­sents one of the qualities that a volunteer embodies," said Scubulek. "I wanted the colors to inspire a positive attitude and to bring to mind one of the many goals of a volunteer: to help others in positive ways." 
Although the program is in its first year. Chaudoir is happy with the results and hopes to involve more next year. 
She feels programs like Hands and Hearts are impor­tant to help students move beyond their own experience. Setting out her own time to volunteer at areas like the Juvenile Justice Center, Chaudoir understands what an act of volunteering does for the volunteer. She described the experience as "addictive." 
"It shows students places to volunteer and promote a feel­ing of volunteerism that will spill over into the community," said Chaudoir. "The more you get involved the more you want to do." 
Combining the hours of all the residents halls Saint Mary's students recorded more than 400 hours of volunteer service at a variety of centers on and off-campus. 
Despite the success, Chaudoir said she hopes to get more students involved next year. 

page 11
Wednesday, May 2, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Hall residents use 'Hands and Hearts' to Volunteer 
HOMES FOR RENT 
2002 -2003 SCHOOL YEAR 
•DOMUS PROPERTIES HAS 2, 4, 5, 61 7, 8 9 &10 
BEDROOM HOUSES AVAILABLE -STUDENT NEIGHBORSHOODS -CLOSE TO CAMPUS ·SECURITY SYSTEMS PROVIDED -WELL MAINTA."T\ffiD HOMES -MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL -WASHER AND DRYERS 
AVAILABLE FOR THE 2002-2003 SCHOOL YEAR LEASING NOW DOMUS PROPERTIES 
CONT ACT KRAMER (219) 298-9673 OR. (219) 234-2436 OR. (219) 674 ..2571 
One 5-bd. house available for 2001-2002 year starting June 1st 

The University ofNotre Dame's 
Science, Technology & Values Program 
in the 
College ofArls & Letters 
Is pleased to announce the following graduating students/or the 
Class of 2001 
Carola M. Ballester  Joseph P. Mitros  
Nicole I(. Benjamin  Claire M.  Oravec  
Donna M. Conlon  Matthew f.  White  
Darcy A. Gibbons  

Snite Museum Shop End of School Year Sale 
15% off Everything in the shop 
Some items with even greater markdowns 
Come find the perfect Mother's Day or Graduation gift 
Today and Tomorrow Only 
Tuesday, May 1, 10am to 4pm Wednesday, May 2, 10am to 4pm 
Wednesday, May 2, 2001
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
FREE Outdoor Show! 

,: ) i ) 
, 

I N -C 0 N C 
R T 


I 
¦ 
FREE Food 
Drinks! 
Soulful, poetic and engagingly philosophical, David Wilcox has repeatedly demonstr~ted a l~nacl~ for sculpting timeless songs from the mundane clay of everyday life. As the New Yorl~ Daily News recently observed, David can "turn a smart phrase and match it to a melody compelling enough to give sensitive singer-songwriters bacl~ their good name." In a similarly effusive feature, the Los Angeles Times praised David's "comforting, James Taylor-lil~e voice" and songs that "probe scenarios with volatile emotion." 
For more about David Wilcox, check out www.davidwilcox.com 
On South Quad outside the Coleman-Morse Center 
C-M
-SHOW STARTS at 5 p.m. 
Campus Ministry 

Wednesday, May 2, 200 I page 13 
The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
ENGLAND 
World governments wary about Bush's missile plan 
Associated Press 
LONDON 
World governments responded nervously to President Bush's decision to build a shield against ballistic missile attack, but some sup­ported his pledge to consult with NATO allies and Russia. 
Allies Britain and Canada issued statements that stopped short of endorsing the plan, dealing uncomfortably around the central issue. 
Much of the apprehension focused on Bush's declaration that a 1972 arms-control treaty was outdated. 
United Nations Secretary­General Kofi Annan said the missile plan would "inevitably impact upon global security and strategic stability." 
He emphasized the need to "consolidate and build upon 

· existing disarmament and nonproliferation agreements, specifically to prevent a new arms race and to maintain the non-weaponized status of outer space," U.N. spokesman Fred Eckhard said. Annan appealed to all coun­tries to avoid a new arms race and start negotiating irre­versible disarmament agree­ments. Many of the United States' European allies have been skeptical of Bush's missile defense ideas since his elec­tion, fearing that such a sys­tem could start a new arms race by prompting both Russia and China to increase their nuclear arsenals. Neither Russia nor China commented immediately on Bush's Tuesday announce­ment, his first major defense address. He said that the 1972 Antiballistic Missile Treaty with Russia, which sets strict limits on testing and deploy­ment of antimissile systems, was a Cold War relic. Today's threats, he argued, come from hostile nations like Iraq, not from Russia. 
#1 NOTRE DAME BASEBALL 
Saturday vs. Connecticut (2) 12 p01 ''Pack the Eck'' 
The Dortn with the NDSr S1uderds at the 6ame Will ReceNe 
Supporters view the ABM defensive response to that treaty as a cornerstone of threat," said a Blair spokes­international arms control woman. speaking on custom­agreements. ary condition of anonymity. 
Britain, one of the United "We share the U.S. 's con­States' most loyal allies, said it cerns and we welcome shared Bush's concerns about President Bush's determina­
rogue states and agreed 
he "had a ­
case" in arguing that the ABM treaty had outlived its usefulness. 
A state­ment from P r i m e Minister Tony Blair's office avoid­ed endors-. ing the defense plan, 
Bush's promise to work closely close consultation with the with Russia and U.S. allies. allies," he said. 
"We would welcome the very Canada was more wary. open approach the Bush Foreign Affairs Minister administration has adopted in John Manley said before setting out its assessment of Bush's speech that a unilater­the missile threat, particularly al American abandonment of from rogue states, and to set­the ABM treaty "would be very ting out -its ideas on a new problematic for us." annroar.h tn thP nffP.nsivP. and · Afterwards. MichaP.l 
tion to consult allies on the future of mis­
"The president is right to 
sile defe·nse," focus on these new she added. security challenges. and I N A T 0 
Secretary
welcome his commitment 
General Lord 
to close consultation with Robertson responded
the allies. ·• 
similarly. "The presi­Lord Robertson dent is right 
NATO secretary general to focus on these new security chal­lenges, and I 
but praised welcome his commitment to 
O'Shaughnessy. spokesman for Canada's department of for­eign affairs. was noncommit­tal, but welcomed Bush's plans to work closely with Russia. 
"We note with interest President Bush's proposal for ballistic missile defense," O'Shaughnessy said. "The mis­sile defense program will inevitably have a major impact on the broader global security environment, on strategic sta­bility and on the multilateral arms control and disarma­ment process." 
"Canada's eventual evalua­tion of the proposed program will depend in part on how these impacts are taken into account." 
Swedish Foreign Minister Anna Lindh, whose country holds the rotating presidency of the 15-nation European Union, condemned the American plans. 
"We urge President Bush to abstain from the National Missile Defense, just as we urge China, India and Pakistan to discontinue their nuclear arsenals," she said. 
NDNATION.COM 
An online site devoted to ND sports is looking for student contributors. Interested parties should email SEE@NDnation.com 
/'-----------~
49¢g~~~s
single-sided on 8.5" x 11 • 28 lb. paper. 
You'll be amazed by the quality. 
(C)py SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center 
On the Campus of the University of Notre Dame 
Call 631-COPY 
FREE Pick-Up & Delivery 
See store for details. Coupon required. Hurry• expires 5/4/01. 
, ___________ J
\ Not valid with any other offer or discount.,,,,, 
@e 150 FIW Subs C-olrtesy of Wolfie's! Ar-5-t 5CX) i:-ans Wil ··R.ereive an ~cial Notre Dar.,e Basesalf First 500 Fans will also receive an.Aaron Heilman Commemorative Poster 
Sundav vs. Connecticut 12 Dnt 
First 300 Pans Get a ND Miniature Baseball Helmet As Always, Students Free! Team Autographs after the Game!! 

rJ..HE 
page 14 vnSERVER Wednesday, May 2, 2001 

THE OBSERVER 
n.,..,_.._, D..J,N....,...Snw.f-O-..Js,,;,,,M-,~ 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  BobWoods  
As.IT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Kerry Smith  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Pat McElwee SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadter ScENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MAR.rs EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CoNTROll.E.R.1 Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Karie McKenna 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING Eo1roR/AssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews.1@nd.edu V(EWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. I@m.!.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 ·observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene.I@nd.edu SAINT MARrs.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc.l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMs/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:llobsnwr. nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion colwnns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise: for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as ao:urately and objecrivdy as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not n=arily those ofTh<! Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Q,mtions regarding Ob1m,erpoluier shoula k dir«t­ed to F,ditor in ChiefMike Connolly. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Notre Dame athletes work hard, earn benefits they receive 
Monday night I received a phone call from Maribel Morey requesting an interview for an article on services pro­vided to Notre Dame athletes. Thinking that the article would be a realistic rep­resentation of how and why it is differ­ent to be a varsity athlete at Notre Dame, I happily obliged. I was appalled by Maribel·s article when it ran in the yesterday's edition of The Observer because it so negatively portrayed var­sity athletes, my team and me. 
Maribel should have communicated her desire to write an article that would do a disservice to this campus, reinforc­ing the grossly inaccurate attitude on campus that varsity athletes have it easy and receive special treatment. And she should have told me the context in which my quotes would be used. 
Maribel says that we are afforded 
· certain perks "just by virtue of being a varsity athlete." Well what exactly is the "virtue of being a varsity athlete?" It is pouring every last bit of physical and emotional energy into your daily workouts, practices and games. It is getting up at 5:30 in the morning to run sprints, lift weights or practice. It is practicing through dinner just so your team will have an edge on the next 

./
.: .,/ , 
In recent weeks there has been · much discussion of "neoliberalism" in these pages of The Observer. On one side of the debate are persons who argue that neoliberal economic poli­cies -emphases on "free trade," free markets and structural adjustment ­will ultimately be to everyone's bene­fit. 
On the other side are those who argue that neoliberal policies are gen­erally very harmful. According to these critics such policies are leading to increased economic and political inequality, undermining the livelihoods of many {especially small farmers}. promoting sweatshops and fostering environmental damage throughout the world. 
I would suggest that some important voices to listen to in this debate are the voices of leaders of the Catholic Church in Third World countries. These persons in their own ministries and the ministries of their churches competitor. It is missing almost three straight weeks of class. but then being expected to perform as well or better than your peers. It is not going out on Friday night because you have a com­petition the next day. It means not nap­ping every afternoon, not getting to eat popcorn and watch movies at night. It means giving up holidays and summer vacations with your family. 
So by "virtue of being a varsity ath­lete" certain privileges are not only afforded to us. they are necessary. . 
I was quoted as having said, "In a classroom. the teachers say it's okay to give that person an extension because she's an athlete." Wrong. It's okay to give that person an extension because her extenuating circumstances make it inhumanly possible for her to complete her work according to the original deadline. I would like to personally apologize to my professors for being quoted 'as having said this. 
I don't for a second think that I can "get away" with things because I'm an athlete. I expect my professors to hold me to the same standards as any stu­dent, and thinking I can slip by is an insult to the hard work athletes put in trying to live up to the high standards Notre Dame sets in every category. 
I was quoted as having said, "The main difference is that people look at you in a more favorable light." This is grossly out of context as well. The main differences are the overwhelming demands placed on varsity athletes. Trying to juggle academic standards of one of the nation's best schools, keep­ing your team atop the latest polls and maintaining a normal level of social interaction is no easy task. 
As far as getting on campus goes, I don't get any "waves." In fact, most of the security guards don't even recog­nize me as an athlete. They see me as your typical Notre Dame student -and that's what most of us want. We want to fit into the Notre Dame community like everyone else. We want the student body to respect us for our daily hard work -not to shun us for receiving "special privileges." And it doesn't help when people reinforce an attitude toward us that is not only hurtful. but disrespectful too. 
Karen Swanson 
1tsophomore 
Breen Phillips Hall 
May I, 2001 

Perspectives on neoliberalism 
confront in a profound way on a daily basis the impacts of neoliberal policies. 
Significantly, the assessment of neoliberalism by these church leaders is overwhelmingly negative. The Latin American bishops' conference, for example, has condemned neoliberal policies for contributing greatly to "the impoverishment and misery of millions of Latin Americans." 
"Neoliberal capitalism," the presi­de~t of the bishops' conference has asserted, "carries injustice and inequality in its genetic code." 
This critical assessment of neoliberal capitalism is reflected also in the social teachings of Pope John Paul II. In his recent document, Ecclesia in America, for example, the pope states: "More and more, in many countries of America, a system known as 'neoliber­alism' prevails; based on a purely eco­nomic conception of the human per­son, this system considers profit and the law of the market as its only para­meters, to the detriment of the dignity of and the respect due to individuals and peoples. At times this system has become the ideological justification for certain attitudes and behavior in the social and political spheres leading to the neglect of the weaker members of society. Indeed, the poor are becoming ever more numerous, victims of specif­ic policies and structures which are often unjust." 
Some good books for those interested in further study of this topic include Arthur MacEwan, "Neoliberalism or Democracy?" Sarah Anderson. ed., "Views from the South," John Madeley, "Big Business, Poor Peoples," and David Korten, "When Corporations Rule the World." A few good wepsites include www.corpY"atch.org and www.essential.org/monitor. 
John Sniegocki 
visiting assistant theology professor May I, 2001 
DILBERT 

A NIGERIAN BANKER NEEDS MY HELP GETTING THIRTI MILLION DOLLARS OUT OF HIS COUNTRYI 
SCOTT ADAMS 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The problem with many athletes is they take themselves seriously and their sport lightly." 
Mike Newlin writer 
e 
.. 
•0• ~ 
.!:
ALL I NEED TO DO IS 
DEAR GUSTAVA,
GIVE HIM MY BANK 
;;•.. 
~ 
MY BANK IS A
C:
INFORMATION BY
.g i• 
.. 
di 
TUBE SOCK THAT
E-t"\AIL ANO I'LL GET 
~ 
!
i 
FELL BEHIND THE
A TEN PERCENT 
• 

...•
COMMISSION!
E 
0 
u 
~ 

L,;....~~~~~~;;;;;;;.;;.~__, 

O
THE 
Wednesday, May 2, 2001 BSERVER page 15 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Sttidents comment on parietals, protest 
In a letter to the editor Tuesday, Ben Powers encouraged all those who slept on the Quad last night to "stand up for something that might actually be worthy of a protest." Hundreds of students (and some interested faculty) gathered on South Quad not to quib­ble about times, but to let the admin­istration know that we will be respected. The messy result of years and years of students and administra­tors battling over this issue has over­whelmed the initial statement of protest: we should have a right to choose. We deserve the responsibility. 
Today's letter mentioned the "real problems" which other colleges and universities are protesting. Why are they being heard? Because they're being respected. We have to fight for our voice. This has to come first. 
Mr. Powers, you're right. Compared to the violent struggles being enacted in the rest of the wide world, fighting for an extra hour with a member of the opposite sex is inconsequential. It's ricidulous. It's pathetic. But that's not why we won't shut up. To every­one who slept outside last night: thank you. For believing in your voice. 
Sarah Brook sophomore Pasquerilla West Hall May l, 2001 
I would like to discuss the use of the terms "dictator-like administra­tion" and "tyranny of.the administra­tion" on the flyers passed out in front of Debartolo Hall regarding the protest of parietals. 
I don't remember the last time I went outside my door and was met with a member of the secret police of Notre Dame who wanted to drag me into prison and interrogate and tor­ture me. The point is the use of "dic­tatorship" and "tyranny" is a bit strong for a situation involving pari­etals. I agree that it is an important issue that the students of this University should desire to speak about. It is true that 80 percent of the student body wanted to change parietals, and in the end, there was no change. 
But, this does not make the admin­istration "dictator-like." The use of a term like this sounds childish and absolutely not true. 
The fact that the students could protest is diametrically opposed to what it means to be a dictator. 
Tim O'Malley freshman Old College May I, 2001 
We agree that the granting of the extension would not drastically alter gender relations at the University. Still, we believe that we, as students, deserve to be heard by University officials. Most people who attended the protest did not actually think that the protest would lead to the revocation of the decision. The camp-out was merely their expres­sion of general frustration with high­er-ups. They, like Brigid Sweeney with her letter in Tuesday's Observer, have the right to com­plain. 
Also, her insinuations about the evils of the male gender demonstrate the off-kilter thinking that the pari­etals revision was attempting to alle­viate. In order to overcome the nega­tive gender stereotypes that are rampant on this campus, we must avoid these archaic insinuations and work toward changing rules restrict­ing free interaction between the sexes. 
Megan Flynn Colleen O'Connor 
sophomores Welsh Family Hall May 1. 2001 
This letter is in response to the crit­icisms made by Brigid Sweeney and Ben Powers Tuesday regarding the protest over parietals which took place last night. 
I think somebody's missing the point. You two are bemoaning stu­dents for protesting? Since when is there a guage set for the general worth of a protest? I guess we should take note of schools like Berkeley, New York University or Oberlin, since they always seem to find some saucy reason to have a sit-in or march. 
But those schools probably( don't have a Big Brother-type administra­tion overlooking everything the stu• dents do and underacknowledging them for any sort of independent thought. Keep in mind that when antiwar sentiments during Vietnam reached their climax, President Hesburgh responded to those surly Notre Dame students by officially designating a whole 15 minutes of a single day for a planned demonstra­tion, after which anyone caught protesting would be kicked out of school. 
Protest isn't about nobility, or even tact. It's about being frustrated and trying to do something, anything about it. 
Adam Frick 
senior off-campus May l, 2001 
The decision not to extend pari­etals was a disappointment to many students on this campus. 
However. if you listen to students talk about this issue, they will have you believe that they are being abused. Do not believe them. As tyrannical as it is, you can survive the oppression experienced when the University limits your visiting hours to only 14 hours per day. 
Some students have decided to protest this totalitarianism by sleeping on the Quad during one of the nicest nights of the year. While some people do this for fun, and call it "camping out," the people you saw on South Quad were protesting and are therefore martyrs. 
For the rest of us, let's try to stick it out for the remainder of our Notre Dame careers and try to pre­tend that we have it reasonably good here despite all the abuse we experience. 
Paul Schofield 
junior Keough Hall May I. 2001 
Princess Sweeney I feel your pain. There is nothing wrong with you or this school. The infamous flier distribu­tor is the enemy. The evil distributor's efforts to have the administra­tion actually listen to us for once is absolutely pre­posterous. 
I want parietals to stay as they are. I want to live in a ~ sterile environment my whole \"',..; ~ ­life never having to compromise my life for the opposite sex. I want to never live in a community that mirrors the real world. I never want to grow up. And I definitely never want to be maliciously attacked with the terrible words of "What's wrong with you people?" 
The status quo is so easy and that is how life is supposed to be. People aren't supposed to be presented with challenges or questioned. So, evil flier distributor please fly away and allow our college to maintain its position as a great sluggish horse. 
David Baroni sophomore Knott Hall 
May I, 2001 
As students at Notre Dame, our free­dom is constrained. Faculty Senate recognized this constraint when they tried to include an academic freedom clause in duLac. Similarly, Student Senate passed a resolution that would grant many forms of free speech to students and student organizations; these freedoms included leafleting, demonstrating and chalking campus sidewalks. Student Senate also passed 
a resolution to extend parietals by 
one hour on weeknights. What ca.me of all these resolu­tions? They went to the Campus 
Life Council (CLC), and -with the exception of the free 
speech proposal, which was tabled until the fall of 2001 -all the resolutions were 
rejected. The results of these deci­
sions are obvious. The administration refuses to grant students basic rights and freedoms. The 
ability to have a rally or protest is not a privilege, it is a right known as freedom of speech. Does this right exist on the Notre Dame campus? Only to a certain degree. 
Bill Kirk, vice presi­dent of Student Affairs must approve all protests before they occur, or there will be 
serious repercussions for the organizers of the event. 
Many students complain that parietals are a trivial matter. and that we should 
support nobler causes. But, we still have a few hurdles to overcome before we reach that point. For exam­ple, students must be able to sit-in without facing serious repercussions. The purpose of a protest or demonstration is not to 
do something where the partici­pants face serious charges; it is to inform and organize people into a uni­fied voice that those in power will hear and listen to. If we protest and are suspended from the University, the administration has even less cause to listen to us. 
Do Nutre Dame students have a voice? Of course we do, but nobody is listening. Just look at the CLC. They make decisions based on what they believe that we think we want. Liberty at Notre Dame? Not for a very long time. 
Paul Graham 
sophomore Stanford Hall May l, 2001 
Refined etiqette would benefit Frisbee-players 
I would like to respond to the letter sent in by Steve Hemkens, the off-cam­pus senior who plays and defends the sport of Ultimate Frisbee. 
While I have no beef with classifying ultimate frisbee as a sport, I do have my reservations about the character of the ultimate frisbee players. While I know none of them personally, I am fre­quently alarmed by their disgraceful appearances and disgusting behavior. 
No, I have never been hit in the head with a frisbee meandering through the quads. What I am referring to the ulti­mate team's stain on the character of this fine University of higher learning. 
Who wants to see long-haired, crazy people thowing frisbees on the fine trimmed lawns of Our Lady's University? I assure you that I am not one. Who wants to enter the pasta room of north dining hall only to discover that a pack of uncontrollable disc-throwing gorillas has taken over the room and are filling it with loud and rambunkious laughter. 
I, for one, like to eat my meals in peace and in the company of others who observe the finer points of etiquette. 
Ultimate players -I have no qualms with your sport. Rather I appeal to your sense of the finer things in life. Would not your sport have a better and more reputable place within Notre Dame if you raised the standards? 
Why not wear formal dress, ties and sport jackets on the days of your tourna­ments? Why not cut your hair so as to improve your areodynamic capibilities. as well as improving your appearance? Why not practice on fields which are better suited for your sport? Our quads have sidewalks for a reason. 
Brendan Egan 
junior off-campus May 1, 2001 
C s 

Wednesday, May 2, 2001
page 16 

Students deserve freedom to make study days choice 
I admire my professor's dedication. 
The last scheduled classes before a break are usually sparsely attended, and the students who do attend are at best intermittent­ly attentive. This was certainly the situation in my 2 p.m. class on the Thursday before Easter break, as 10 of us, grumbling all the way, complained that while our peers fled campus when their classes were cancelled, we were stuck in class. 
But my professor -whose name I will keep anonymous to spare him criticism from his colleagues -opened class that day by thanking us for attending. Initially, I rolled my eyes at the feeble attempt to win our affections for the next 90 minutes ­until he explained why we were having class. 
"In my opinion, your professors who can­cel class today owe you a tuition refund," he told us. "They get paid to work today, and if th_ey cancel class, it's a free day off. You all pay a lot of money to be here. I have little respect for my colleagues who don't hold their classes today." 
After that, how could you argue being in class? With a professor that dedicated, you can't help but want to be there. For the next 90 minutes I paid attention in that last scheduled class before Easter break, with a newfound respect for my professor's passion to teach. 
With that in mind, I have difficulty understanding why Saint Mary's administrators and faculty assembly delegates continually shoot down the Board of Governance proposal for study days. Under the premise that removing a class day from the semester schedule would force them to condense their already-overloaded syllabi, the faculty assembly has said repeatedly they will reject study days in any form. I am willing to bet my semester GPA that these delegates have cancelled their own classes at least once in the semester for a break, professional development activities for themselves or personal conflicts. 
I'm sorry, but to me, that's just selfish. 
Canceling classes at whim at other points during the semester because the professor has conflicts doesn't seem like a justifiable argument not to cancel class when the students really need it ­right before finals. I've had classes canceled this semester alone for professors traveling to conferences, professors taking personal trips and simply because they wrapped up their syllabi early. As students, we're only asking for one cancellation. It's certainly not unreasonable. 
The second criticism of the proposal is that there is a wide mis­use of study days across the street -which I won't, for one sec­ond, deny. I am not going to pretend that there aren't block par­ties and cups tournaments and couches that become fixtures on South Quad for days on end. I won't pretend that the vast majority of Domers I know will spend the next two days playing video games, tossing Frisbees and closing out the semester with a round of drinks at the 'Backer, Boat Club, Heartland or Coach's. I won't pretend that for the next two days, thousands of Notre Dame stu­dents will choose partying over studying. And I won't pretend that if Saint Mary's students were granted a study day, hundreds wouldn't make that exact same choice. 
But how is that choice any different than the rest of the year? 
· Every weekend in the semester, as students, we are inundated with tests, projects and proposals due in the upcoming week. And every weekend in the semester. students make the choice to party or study. Some will justify partying because they've done too much studying; some will justify studying because they've done too much partying. Managing time, be it social or academic, is a critical college skill. If a student hasn't mastered the art of choosing between studying and partying by the time they are 18, 19, 20 or 21 years old, they probably have bigger problems than waking up hungover on study days. The administration and faculty assembly need to allow students the freedom to choose for themselves how to manage their time. Basing a decision on the presumption that all students are unable to make these choices effectively is poor rationale. In the next seven days, I have four papers and one test -and that's on the heels of the other four major projects I have turned in over the past week. If granted a study day, I know I would make the choice to use that day to get some of that work done. I would also, in all probability, make the choice to party with my friends across the street. And as a 21-year-old college junior, I feel equipped to make that choice. It's just too bad my administration doesn't think so. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those o/The Observer. 

These are the days 
Whether you spend your study days on the beach o 
By lAURA KELLY Associate Scene Edicor 
It's that time of year again. For weeks you've been keeping a tally of how many classes are left. You've agonized over final papers and pro­jects, and you've glared oLit the win­dow with envy as your friends snoozed on the quad. 
But now classes are finally over and your time has come, for in a rare moment of compassion, the adminis­tration has seen fit to grant you a reprieve before the hellish week of finals. Sure. they may intend some actual academic behavior to occur during these alleged "study days." But you know better. 
This is the last 'hurrah, the final nights to cut loose before you empty your brain into blue book after _blue book and then pack up everything you own into identical white ND boxes. These are your study days, and you are ready for them. 
But where to go? What to do? Thursday and Friday stretch out in front of you, beautiful blank pages just waiting to be filled. Make them zany and borderline illegal: make them restful and relaxing. Whatever you do, make the most of them. 
Sweet Home Chicago 
In the infamous words of Jake and Elwood: "It's 106 miles to Chicago. We got a full tank of gas, half a pack of cigarettes, it's dark and we're wearing sunglasses. Hit it." 
And why shouldn't you? Chi-town is the perfect study days escape -close 
enough to make a day trip, yet far enough from Mishawaka's cornfields to feel like another world. Breathe in that city air and the skyline as you approach the city, and that bio final will somehow seem insignificant. 
Spring is arguably the best time of year to visit Chicago. The fountains are back on in Grant Park, the breeze off Lake Michigan is just cool enough and the bright lights of Navy Pier as just begging you to come run around like a 

giddy 6-year old in an amusement park. If you really can't get out of the academic 
frame of mind, at least have some fun with it. 
Chicago's museum offerings are as good as any 
study guide. For anthropology, you've got an 
Egyptian tomb, the man-eating lions of Tsavo 
and the bones of the biggest Tyrannosaurus Rex 
ever discovered, all at the Field Museum. For biology. you can't beat the world's largest indoor aquarium (the Shedd} or the mam­moth Museum of Science and Industry, where you can walk through a giant heart or watch baby chick­ens being born. That should practically be extra credit. 
And lest arts and letters majors feel left out, there's always the Art Institute. You can wander through the endless galleries for hours, or at least until you find a school group for you, Cameron and Sloane to hold hands with and latch onto. 
If museums bore you to death even more than engineer­ing homework, take yourself out to the ballgame. The White Sox play away on Thursday and Friday, but the Cubs have afternoon games both days, against Los Angeles and San Diego, respectively. 
, Nothing feels more like playing hooky than sitting in the bleachers with a box of popcorn and the green field stretched out before you in the 

,you'II re01e01ber ... 
'Jr in the library, make the most ofthe next 48 hours 
And if you strike it rich, you won't even need to take exams. 
The cost of Canada ­
. 
Room at Casino Windsor: $169 Canadian 

. 
Minimum bet at Casino Windsor's Blackjack table: $5-$25 Canadian 

. 
Adding "eh?" at the end of every sen­tence: obnoxious, but free 

. 
Making a 213 mile pilgrimage all in the name of legal drinking for 1 9 year-olds: priceless 


From Dome to Dunes 
Not everyone has the urge or the cash for a lavish trip during study days. But our very own state of Indiana provides its resi­dents with more than enough ways to amuse themselves. Honestly. And it's not all cornfields, either. 
The Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore and Dunes State Park is only an hour away from Notre Dame, on Indiana's southern shore. Here are the natural wetlands and tall sand dunes that Lake Michigan is known for. With projected highs in the 70s for Thursday and Friday, a day at the beach is the perfect way to unwind before the stress of exams. 
If you want to make the excursion into an overnight adventure (and maybe -. gasp! -break parietals while you're at it), con­sider camping. As long as one member of your happy party is older than 21, the state park will let you crash for only $12 to $15 per site. For that, you have three miles of shoreline to explore, trails to hike and a whole lake to fish or swim, if you dare brave the chilly waters this early in the spring. 
F 
Camping at the dunes may not bring the 
same proud rebellion as protesting on 
South Quad. But if your eyes are bleary 


Wednesday, May 2, 2001 page 17 
SCENE ASKS 
How are you planning to spend study days? 
"We celebrated Festivus last year" 
Gabe Brown sophomore, Stanford Hall 

"/ had my appendix 
d •• 
remove . 
Adam Perry sophomore, Stanford Hall 

"I'm running a half­marathon in Indianapolis." 
Michael Boldt sophomore, Dillon Hall 
"I'm celebrating Cinco de Mayo on a lofted couch" 
Jiml Fishburne sophomore, Morrissey Manor 
"I'm actually going to study, and then do a lot ofworking out to transfer the stress from my brain to my body.·· 
Karrie Koski freshman, Farley Hall 
photos by TONY FLOYD 
sun. Even if it is the Cubs. 
So take advantage of all Chicago has to offer. If you have only a day to spare, the drive is generally no more than two hours, and with a scenic tour through Gary, who can resist? Besides, if you can't be away from campus for more than 24 hours with­out getting homesick, you can always climb to the Skydeck of the Sears Tower -if the skies are clear, you just might spy the gleaming gold of the Dome. 
The cost of Chicago ­
. 
South Shore ticket from South Bend to downtown Chicago: $9.40 

. 
Spin on the Navy Pier Ferris Wheel: $4 

. 
Window-shopping on Michigan Ave.: absolutely free 

. 
Spending a day off that would make Ferris Bueller proud: priceless 


Oh, Canada 
If your comparative government class has you convinced that we've got it all wrong, head for the border for your mini-vacation. The closest interna­tional soil also happens to have a lower drinking age than our beloved States -isn't that conve­nient? 
Thursday and Friday stretch out in front of you, beautiful blank pages just waiting to be filled. Make them zany and borderline illegal; make them rest­ful and relaxing. 
Windsor is about four hours drive South Bend. depending on traffic. As exotic as leaving the coun­
try for the weekend may sound, drop all exotic illu­sions on the American side of the bridge. All this Ontario city really has going for it is the gambling. 
Casino Windsor is one of the largest and most popular casinos, offering all kinds of slot machines and table games from blackjack to craps and poker. 
The self-contained hotel joins the casino in over­looking the Detroit River and skyline, and the strip of downtown bars and clubs nearby provides more than enough entertainment for those used to decid­ing between Heartland and Club 23. 
If you still need a school-related excuse to waste your money away on slots and shots. consider these angles: the addictive nature of gambling (psycholo­gy), the immorality of gambling (theology). the political battles concerning the legality of gambling (government) or the economics of the industry (self­explanatory). 
C s 

from hours in front of a computer screen getting back to nature may be more than a perfect pre-finals retreat -it might be necessary for your sanity. 
The cost of the dunes ­
. 
Campsite at Indiana Dunes State Park: $12-15 

. 
10 oz. bottle of Coppertone: $6.99 

. 
Cookout essentials -brats, burgers, buns and s'mores ingredients: depends on how much your crew can pack away. 

. 
Laughing as your roommates tumble head-over­heels down a huge dune and wind up at the bottom with a mouthful of sand: priceless 


Home Sweet Home 
Despite wishful thinking, most of us will spend these days of study right where we are: good ol' South Bend. Before you heave a great sigh, consid­er this: in a little more than a week, you'll be miss­ing this place like crazy. Plus, with the latest spell of warm and uncharacteristically sunny weather. northern Indiana is not a bad place to be. 
So if you are stuck here for the weekend. do not despair. You can still have one last weekend of par­tying and go out with a bang, or you could even consider cracking open the books and getting a head-start on all your friends -a novel thought. 
Try studying some place new: Lula's for the cof­fee and comfy chairs, Barnes and Noble for the dis­traction of thousands of books much more interest­ing than the one you're reading, or the new Coleman Morse center for the free Coke and pop­corn. Brilliant. 
Remember to treat your poor brain to some down time this weekend as well. Sit in the back row of Movies 14 and toss popcorn at lovey couples. Go out to dinner with friends and spend some quality time together before summer send you your sepa­rate ways. Or just take a leisurely walk around the lake and feed the ducks. 
So even if you're swamped in work -and in all honesty, we all should probably spend the next 48 hours in the library -make the most of these study days. They'll be gone before you know it. 
The cost of South Bend ­
. 
12 inch pepperoni pizza from Bruno's: $8.95 

. 
Student discount at Movies 14: $5 

. 
Cappuccino at Lula's: $2.75 

. 
Realizing that everyone who partied through study days is just that much more screwed come finals time: smugly priceless. 





This is the last regular issue of The Observer. 
( 
The next regular issue will be August 29. 
Wednesday, May 2, 2001 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS 
NBA PLAYOFFS 
Bucks move to semifinals with win against Magic 
Associated Press 
ORLANDO, Fla. 
The Milwaukee Bucks won't give themselves much time to enjoy their first NBA playoff series victory in 12 years. 
Ray Allen scored 26 points and Sam Cassell had 14 of his 25 points in the third quarter as the Bucks defeated Orlando 112-104 Tuesday night to win their first-round series 3-1. 
"We have a day, maybe, to celebrate, but we're hoping to make this a beginning, not a cel­ebration," Milwaukee coach George Karl said. 
The Bucks. who hadn't won an NBA playoff series since 1989, advanced to face Charlotte in the Eastern Conference semifinals. The Hornets swept favored Miami in the first round. 
The Magic were led by 25 points from Tracy McGrady, who set an NBA playoff record for a four-game series with 123 field-goal attempts. Rookie guard Mike Miller broke out of his shooting slump to score 22 points. 
Milwaukee, the league's sec­ond-highest scoring team in the regular season, entered Game 4 shooting only 41 percent from the field. But the Bucks scored 7 5 points in the second and third quarters behind 56.1 per-. cent shooting (23-for-41) to take control. 
"We are not a fast, athletic, speed team, but we are a fast­shooting team and that's how we like to play," Karl said. "It's been a lesson on my part, learn­ing to accept some of the crazy shots we take, but that's what we do well." 
Orlando coach Doc Rivers said 
he knew his team was in trouble 
early when the Magic built a double-digit lead in the second quarter. 
"I really thought if we kept playing at that pace, it was going to come back and haunt us," said Rivers, who was in his first playoff series as a coach. "When you play at that pace against a team like the Bucks. you are saying that we are going to try to outgun you -and you cannot outgun them." 
The Bucks took the lead for good in the third quarter behind Cassell's two 3-pointers, which started and ended a 10-2 run to open the second half, giving Milwaukee a 67-63 advantage. 
Cassell later had six straight points, beating Darrell Armstrong. as the Bucks went ahead 82-75 after the Magic ral­lied to take a two-point lead. 
Keeping the Magic from disas­ter during the Bucks' outburst was, as usual, McGrady. who averaged 33 .8 points in the series. He had 13 points in the quarter, including five straight on a three-point play and a jumper to cut Orlando's deficit to 90-87 with 2:38 left. 
"He's a talented player, and we don't have a mechanism to disrupt him like maybe some of the other teams do," Karl said. 
But Milwaukee ended the period with a 7 -0 run for a 97 ­87 advantage, and Orlando never got closer· than seven points in the fourth quarter. 
McGrady blamed fatigue for his fade down the stretch. He missed all four of his shots in the final quarter. 
"I came to the sideline after the first timeout and my legs were just gone, shot," McGrady said. "I felt like I was running in cement. I knew it was going to he a long night for me." 
Milwaukee, down 16 points in the second quarter, closed with­in four points at intermission with 8-0 and 9-2 runs. Tim Thomas had 10 of his 15 points in the period, and Allen added nine. 
Orlando broke out to its largest lead of the series early in the second quarter on Michael Doleac's dunk off a steal and coast-to-coast breakaway. That put the Magic ahead 40-24 with 
10:46 before halftime. 
Orlando's backcourt depth, already hurt by the one-game suspension of Dee Brown, took another blow when reserve point guard Troy Hudson sprained his ankle in the second quarter and didn't return. Hudson had six points and two assists in eight minutes before leaving the game. 
Brown had to sit out the game as punishment for leaving the bench during a brief scuffie in Game 3 on Saturday night. 
Everything was falling for the Magic in the opening minutes as they hit 12 of their first 18 shots en route to a 29-18 lead with 
3:09 left in the first period. "We were shell-shocked to start the game," Allen said. 
Miller. who entered the game averaging 8. 7 points on 3 3.3 percent shooting, was 4-for-5 in the opening period and scored nine points. 
Mavericks 107, Jazz 77 
The Dallas Mavericks are growing up fast. 
Dirk Nowitzki scored 16 of his 33 points in the third quarter, and Steve Nash had 27 points as the playoff-novice Mavericks routed the Utah Jazz in Game 4 to force a decisive fifth game in their first-round series. 
The series finale will be Thursday night in Salt Lake City. The winner takes on San Antonio in the second round, starting Saturday. 

The Mavericks head West on quite a roll as their Big Three of Nowitzki. Nash and Michael Finley, who had 20 points and 13 rebounds, are finally clicking. 
The magic began in the sec­ond quarter, when Nash and Nowitzki combined for 22 of Dallas' 28 points as Dallas turned a 1 0•point deficit into a 45•42 halftime lead. The final basket was a long 3-pointer by Nash with two Jazz in his face. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid.
CLASSIFIEDS The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right co edir all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

Furniture for Sale (entertainment Newfy remodeled 5 bedroom house center w/ 2JO TV and VCR (sepa-available to rent for fall semester. 2 rate), desk, dresser, shelving unit, full baths, washer & dryer, huge rec
TICKETS FOR RENT 
etc.) all in great condition! Prices room, security system. Call now to negotiable. Call Dustin @ 243• see 277-0636 
4 U2 Tickets 4 May 4 1751. 5 bedroom 2 baths 
Fri. Before Derby Lexington, KY. Call 243-1487 WOODBRIDGE CONDO 
18199 Stoneridge -Apt F Need one ticket for graduation, call 1239 sq. ft. $84,300, 3 bedrooms, 1 Mike at 246-9085 tor info. 1/2 baths, dining room, living room, 
kitchen. Condo fee $165 per month. Need one ticket to graduation. Price The Hickey Group-Karen castelluc­negotiable. Call 4-3760 cio 
674-1682 

2 tickets for graduation needed. Will pay$$$ Call Dustin @243-1751 Relax and enjoy life in this beautiful 
two bedroom condominium watch­
ing the St. Joseph River. This North Shore Club condo, close to cam-
FOR SALE 
pus, has a ceramic tiled entryway 
and kitchen floor, with mirrored bar, '87 Saab 9000 whirloool bath, large bedrooms, 1.5 Bk, 4 door, sunroof, gd condition baths and storage shed. Call BRAD:251·1465 Century 21 Goldstar office, 272• 
2121 or 235-7207. Ask tor John Looking for a car to drive locally? Beard. 
1987 tan Ford Taurus in good con­dition for sale. Great for students Europe $199 one way. living off campus who need a car to Mexico/Carribbean or Central commute. Call Sally at 247-0691 America $250 round trip plus tax. 
Other world wide destinations Moving off campus? Senior selling cheap. If you can beat these prices bed, desk, anddresser. Great condi• start your own airline. Book tickets tion! Please call 272-2796 or email on line www.airtech.com or toll free mdunne@nd.edu (877)Al RTECH 1/2 mile from campus washer-dryer just remodeled, 288-6383 
Duplex apartment 1 mile from cam­pus, good neighborhood. 
Looking to share/sublet summer apartment. Will be performing internship in South Bend May 13 through August 18. Non-smoker. {419) 352-4136 (timgooclenow@yahoo.com) 
Downstairs large 2 BR $500/month. Upstairs 1 large BR Laundry avail-Oak Hill Condo for rent. 2 bdrm, 2 able for both. Landlord pays bath. Available June 1. 1 •765-362· 
gas/water/trash. Mature 1040. Ask for John seniors/grads preferred Call Tom 233·1604. 5-6 BR House, furnished, W/0, 
Popular location, 10-mo. Lease. 
3-6 BDRM HOMES, $180 per per-233-9947 
FEMALE ROOMMATE DETROIT Graduating Seniors: Looking to sell SUBURBS your apartment furniture (beds, Join another '01 ND grad! desks, couches, etc?) ND juniors Call Alison 4-2339 looking to buy. Call Nick 4·4716 if 
interested. 
SECRETARIAL WORK Part-Time/work at home-Word pro-Are you moving to the DETROIT cessing from dictation involving area? The Notre Dame Club of client case studies. Must have com-Detroit would like to welcome you to puter. Dictaphone provided. Call for out area and extend an invitation to info+interview, mornings M-Thur. join us at club events. Please join Ask for Cindy. 287-3373 us this summer for a trip to the 
Second City Comedy Club, a golf Summer Sitter outing, monthly Happy Hours, a 2 families w/ four children {5-8) Tiger Game outing, and much, seek mature student who enjoys much more! To get involved with children and will have fun creating the club please contact Rachel activities at the pool, beach, muse-Bradford-Smith(patandrachel@peo­urns, library. Car a must. Close to plepc.com) or Amy Zwerk ND. 9-5, M-F June 7 Aug 24. {Amy.J.Zwerk@Accenture.com) or Jennifer@ 235-6551. check out the club website 
(http://alumni.nd.edu/~ndc_detlhom 1 FEMALE ROOMMATE TO e.html). Thanks and best of luck. SHARE 2•BEDROOM APT. W/SENIOR FEMALE FOR NEXT Weather for this week: Cloudy with YEAR. TURTLE CREEK. CALL a chance of Mike Lane 
243•1487 
McGlinn Girls: You guys are the ROOMMATE WANTED best, and I'm so glad I've known For DC 2001-2002 you these four years. We have to Dillon senior going to school in DC get that website going to keep in next year is looking for a cool roo-touch and come back often for loot-mate to share apartment ball games and tailgates! -Kat CALL4-0956 
Inferno quad, it's been a terrific 
year-and-a-half. I'm lookingJorward 
son. Furn. Summer/Fall, 272-6306 
Pebbles of Brandywine Creek Bed and Breakfast Niles, 15 mins from Notre Dame 616-687-8924 WWW. PebblesofBWC.com 
ROOMS FOR GRAD WEEKEND Wild Irish Rose Inn 3mi north of campus 
•brkfst buffet ea AM *clean, comfortable & afford• able 
EXECUTIVE SUITE: One bedroom furnished executive suite Ncable & local phone, housekeeping included 
@ $60/night (footbalVgraduation weekend rates higher). (219) 271• 6808 or e-mail: www belleterre­suite@aol.com. ND Alum owned/managed. Near ND. 
(2190 277-4303 or www.wildirishrose.com 
3 bdrm duplex 501/503 Eddy St. Appliances, W/0 1 mile from campus 273-8332 or 25().7080 
1 BDRM APT. lo reunions in Miami, Philly ..
PERSONAL
!!! We have balls !!! 1428 Marigold Way Northshore Studio apartment in quiet neighbor• 233-7350 For Sale 9000 balls Condo hood near Notre Dame. To the other red-headed chick in Suitable for dormroom ballpit Close to ND. 1 Bdrm, 1 bath, LR, Unfurnished, cable, patio; $330/mo Did you miss Chance at Love the sports, I wouldn't ~ave survived w/o Contact arodrig6@nd.edu OR & Kitchen include. All appl. 1 Plus electric. Available June. first time? Well, now you have a you this year. You're the best! KOS
WANTED 
car garage & large storage closet. Telephone 616-687-8924. second Chance at Love. Come se 
Bunk Bed/Futon-Fits ND mattress Condo tees inc. ext. maintenance, this hilarious musical written by 2 Thanks for letting me have the best on top, couctv'double ted on bot-pool, tennis, club house, cable, gas Rent for fall semester STUDENT/AMATUER PHOTOG-ND students. job ever, minus the 5 ams-Kathleen tom. $175 or best offer. 243-1366. heat, water, sewer, trash, water 4 bedrooms, 2 full baths, washer & RAPHER wanted to photograph Saturday, May 5th 
heater & water softener. dryer, basement w/hot tub, new fur-wedding at ND, May 12. Please Washington Hall TODAY IS THE LAST REGULAR WATERBED· great tor off-campus. $72,500 nace, security system. Call to see have examples of work. can Tix $5 at the door . ISSUE OF THE OBSERVER. $60. Eric 277·7950 Call Doris 255-7862 277--0636. Elizabeth 4-1447 CDs on sale at show HAVE A GREAT SUMMER. 
Wednesday, May 2, 200 I 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


p!!C~~!!t~!:!d~DPICl~rmWbo~ 
· 
ND OH-Campus U11d~t'gr11da On £11.rQJlment Monday •t ihc St11dium Box Ollice ND Law/?\IB.A/Gtad Fi:om your college Saint Mary, s itudents From SMC 
-lbllin vaur 11nery nu¦ber • 1nr111111111 ¦111181, S •••21, 1-5. Slldllll BIi omce 
Students will be seated by c1Sl3S, Each student may bring up to SIX applications. You l\rtJST have a lotte.ry number in nume:rical otder \vith your group in order to sit with them. 
Tht! sraning lottery number will be drawn at 8:00 p.m. on Monday> August 27 at Stepan Center. E•mail and phone anncunctments will hi madi following the drawing of tht number. The lottery numbe,-can al$O be found W\VW.nd.edul~.fao after 9:00 p.m. To reflect the smaller cla.fJ ,~iie, Law/MBA/Grad students will have a separat< number. 

Purchase 111, 111111 ue111n at 1111 Stadlu¦ Box Office
P Gui{klinc• for Undergrad Ticket Di1tribution Schedule: If you.r O.Wl)ber is wirhi.n: * 400 of the selected nu,:nbet, show up at ~tatt time * 40().800 of the selcctt!d lottery number, show u.p 20 minutes past stixt time * 800•1200 of th~ selected lottc:r,1 nu,nbe,:, show up 40 miuutc:s p2st st9tt time * 1200-1600 of the selected lottery numbet, $how up 1 hour pa$t start tin1c: * 1600-2000 oi the &elected lottery Ottmber, sb(lW up 90 minutes pa.st ~tart time * If you have no seiting preference ox no lottery number, show up 3 holJrs ifter StQtt time 
11111:l CIIIIII¦ IIIIW • 111111¦1111 CIIN Bring Ticket Applicati<Jns and l.0.5. Cash or checks only. Checks must have the student's phone number 
on them! Each student may bring ur to six I.D,s. 
• . monday 
9:00am-5:00pm Lottery sequence numbers available ilt Stadium Box. Office. YQU MVST hav~ a lotury seq~nct number in numerical ord.tr with your group to b~ able to sit with tltem. ie. If you plan to sit with 1O friends, you must have 10 
sequential lottery numbers. 8:00pn1 Lottery number drawn. Email and phone announc~ments wilt be made to notify students. 
tueaday 
8:00a111 SENIOR start time for ticket purchases at Stadium Box Office. 
wednesday 
7:OOarn JUNIOR start time for ticket purchases at Stadium Box Office. 
2:00pm Law/MBA/Grad start time for tkket purchases at Scadiun1 Box Office. 
'thursday 
7:00am SOPHOMORE start time for ticket purchases at Stadium Box Office. 
2:00pm FRESHMAN start time for ticket purchases at Stadium Bo.x. Office. 

-
.. 
page 20 Wednesday, May 2, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS 

every single team. They're not your starters; the guys that are level, you might not be in the Clark is not wholly unfamiliar really going to try to change coming off of the bench; and same role that you had." with Notre Dame, having
Clark 
things up from game to game." your guys that are practice play­crossed paths with the program 
continued from page 32 While Clark is less likely to ers," Clark said. "But I want the Bridging the change during the Berticelli era. make constant changes to his practice players to be pushing h 1 h f h • h "In 1998 I came up and did a 
W i e muc O t e lrts pro-clinic for Mike here," Clark said. 
starting lineup, he stresses that the guys coming off the bench, 
gram has changed since the
in exhibition games. The new every player on his team has a and I want the guys that are team played its final game on "I've known Mike over the
head coach has seen only a role. coming off the bench to be Halloween, one thing has ye~rs. In fact we helped Andrew glimpse of his new team, but is .. I'll be honest, you're not pushing the guys that are start­remained the same. While Nino • Aris -the New Zealand boy ­thrilled with what he's found. 
going to win a championship ing." Berticelli, Mike's son who come here [when Cl~rk coac1:_d "So far I am very excited. I with 11 players," Clark said. While Clark wants to make served as an assistant coach last the New Zealand national tea J.
think we've done a lot of good "Last year's team at Stanford sure players know their roles, fall, has left to pursue a mas-~e was on my under-18 squadthings," Clark said. "Having said that I thought had a very good he doesn·t want them to become 
ter's degree at Thomas 1n New z_eland and I re~om_­that, I think we still have a long chance of winning a national satisfied and complacent. University in Florida, assistant mended h1:° to Coach Bert1celh. 
way to go. They're working, and championship, played 18 play­"I want everybody out there to 'k • Everyone s been touched at 
that's the nice thing. I wouldn't coach Mi e Avery remams on t· b M"k t· 11·"
ers. I had total confidence in any know their role, accept their k. t ff some 1me y 1 e 8er ice 1. 
be here if I didn't think it could one of those 18 players." role and in some cases not be Cl ar s s a · Wh'l Cl k . t . h
"Mike did a great job in the l e ar. mam ams e wasbe done. I wouldn't have left "There's going to be some satisfied with their role," Clark transition between Coach Apple ~appy coachmg at Stanford, the 
when I left if I wasn't sure that games when it's going to be said. "Even the guys that are and the new coach, me, coming lifestyle and atm?sphere atNotre Dame could attract the working for someone, and starting, I want them to be · ., Cl k 'd Notre Dame lured him to take a 
top student athletes so we can m, ar sa1 . •t· d h' f. ·
there's going to be some games pushing and driving to be the The other assistant coach on new poSI mn an move IS ami­
get a team that can challenge when its not. At least 16 players best in the country. They're not Clark's staff is Brian Wiese, who ly,?alfw~y across the country. 
for national honors." 
have got to come out. going to be satisfied with just a 
played under Clark at !heyhre lbo,!hCvlerky g~odd '~Tchad-Players grumbled privately Everybody's got to be into it, starting spot, they've got to be Dartmouth and has remained at emic sc 00 S, ar sai • ~y ­
last season as Apple changed 
that's the key. You can't be self­looking for being the best in the h. 'd e • both have tremendous athletic 
the team's offensive approach IS s1 e ev r smce. d' • F " ·1 1· ·
ish; good teams aren't selfish. country." "Brian played with me at tra_ 1t1ons.. rom a lam1 y 1vmgand starting lineup nearly every You can be disappointed at not Still, one thing comes first on Dartmouth and he followed me pomt of view I thought S~uth
week. As the team struggled, having the goal you want, but any team coached by Clark. 
to Stanford and did his masters Belld wo~ld be a much ~1certhe young coach frantically you can't be selfish." "It's very important that the in engineering there," Clark place to hve. The only t_hmg I
looked for a fix. The solution 
To be sure that everybody in players put the team first," said. "For the first couple of can take. out of that 1s t_he never really arrived, and along the locker room is on the same Clark said. "And that's not easy 
years he was doing his masters ~.eather. ~ake away that I th~kthe way the continuity on the page, Clark breaks his athletes because most of the players that and we had a volunteer gradu-1t s a .~errific place for my wife
team fell apart. up into three separate roles --come here have been in their ate assistant type of situation. a~~ I. . .
"They have their system that all essential in a winning pro­own little environments where When he finished his degree at We Just,, really hked _!h,e
they like to play." said rising gram. they come from and been star Stanford, he decided he wanted atmosphere'. Clark adde~. , It s 
junior goaltender Greg Tait. 
"The team's going to fall into players. Some of them have to to coach. He's been my full-time a gut feeling._ Maybe it s a
"They kind of try to teach us it three guys: the guys that are deal with not getting the key assistant for the last three years S~ots~an c_oming amo~g ~~eand teach us how to apply it to pretty well your key players, role. When you hit the elite at Stanford." Irish. 1t was Just a gut feelmg. 



ClllC6AR.TS 
Congratulations to 
G A L L E R Y 
GE Hires from Notre Dame
Please join us as local artists show case -their art and craft at our 
We are proud to have you as part of our team. 
::Art Show &Spring · • Dean Korolis • Greg Silber
• 
Oscar Alvarez 

• 
Nicholas Althoff • Traci Korytkowski • Katie Torrence


::}'.fo~11,.tt611Se.S.ale:· 
i~itf<·: ··.-· \,:~ ::.;:lt'.'t-',~ ·•.~ ,-.,:,;,'.:'.,~;?,:,.,;,_ : 
• Aileen Barry • Pam Kruger • Patrick Virtue
-<:.~·:-:!,::>Saturd;iy, ijay.5:::/L; 
\\';;c',·:::-,r :;-,1. ;·1···to;.. ~o; \.-5:-~o·o· -./-.-,.:_: \ ·-_: ) ,, ..•.'.J,, • . ;-fr ,:. ·:~i;:,,.,,,, 
• 
Christopher Bosco • Michael Lazinski • Suthee Wiri

• 
Mark Braun • Anne McDermott


-~--~~~f7::~~~~~:~\h~-~ ~~: .'·f.. -· ~-;~:}"':f~\i~.:~?~{1f'i 
i ;'!,IL·?'.,~~~::
I 
I 
)·~:-~~ 
• Jenny Burke • Michael Mercedes
.--.. \~-:-:/~ :T;r,:,'?:;rt> , }!?: 
i I 
• Erin Costantini •John Mowry 
' ' • Caroline Craft • Kevin Murphy 
• Patrick Dunnigan • Daniel Pelner 
I 
' ) • Colleen Flood • Anthony Pilcher
I 
I } 
' ) 
• 
Lauren Fuchs • Matthew Ring 

• 
Ben Garcia • Stacy Rousseau 


i , 
• 
Jason Garza • Stephen Sabrio 

• 
Robert Hagan • John Schmiederer 

• 
Elizabeth Jackson • Pat Scoggins 


• 
We bring good things to life.
[iBIJTravel ,__..__, 
www.gecareers.com
America's Leader in Student Travel 
1-800-2COUNCIL 
Open 7 days a week 
counciltravel .com 


Wednesday, May 2, 2001 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
-' 
Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown identifies the U.S. investment banking and brokerage act1v1ties of Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown Inc.• which is an indirect subsidiary of Deutsche Bank AG. *Trademark application pending. 
Deutsche Banc Alex·. Brown 
I 
Congratulations! 
Deutsche Bank is proud to welcome our University of Notre Dame Class of 2001 Full-time and Summer Analysts. 
Ellis A. Carson 
Priscilla Clements 
Michael Donohue 
Jeffrey S. Kurtzman 
Andrew T. Mclellan 
Ashok Raju 
Daniel Schaeffer 
Nicholas Wilhelmson 
To learn more about 
Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown, 
visit our website at 
www.db.com/careers 
Deutsche Bank is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer (M/F/DN) 
Global reach is 
• 
leading to results™· 
IZ1
Deutsche Bank 

Wednesday, May 2, 2001 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS 
SOFTBALL 
Notre Dame faces Big East challenge at Villanova 
By PETER FRASSO 
Sports Writer 
This Friday, the No. 9 Irish women's softball team faces possibly their biggest test in Big East play, as they face second place Villanova on Friday in a road double header. 
The game will clarify the Big East pic­ture and could decide the conference's regular season championship. 
The Irish have won 29 straight, the longest streak in the nation, and are cur­rently undefeated in the Big East at 16-0. Villanova stands at 13-3 after losing both games of a double header to Connecticut. 
"This is an unusual situation for them," says coach Liz Miller on the Wildcats. "Usually the best 
teams in the Big East are UConn, BC and us." 
Villanova stands at a strong 38-6 on the season, but Miller explains that record might be deceiving. 
"We will be the best 

team they've faced all Miler year," Miller said, pointing out that Villanova does not play 
the strong schedule that the Irish do. "They haven't faced the pitching they're going to see." 
The pitching match-ups will most likely be Notre Dame's Jen Sharron (24-2. 1.04) vs. Villanova's Theresa Hornick (16-1, 
0.74) in game 1, followed by Irish hurler Kristin Schmidt (23-1, 0.43) against Wildcat Keri Stoller (19-5, 1.40). Schmidt was the most recent Big East Player of the Week, tossing four shutouts, including a one-hitter and a no-hitter. Miller said Hornick is a drop ball pitcher, while Stoller is a rise ball pitcher. 
In addition to dealing with Villanova's strong record, Notre Dame will also have to counter Villanova's style. 
"They have a lot of speed, and a lot of lefties. They're very similar to DePaul," said Miller. "We'll have to adjust defen­sively." 
Villanova showcases two highly talented offensive players in Jackie Pasquerella and Sara Carlson. Pasquerella is hitting .356, but the speedster's best statistic is her 24 steals in 25 chances. Carlson is the slugger of the team, hitting eight home runs with a .753 slugging percentage. 
On Saturday, the Irish will complete their Big East schedule at Rutgers in a doubleheader, then look forward to the Big East Championship, starting May 10. 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Cordova, Indians beat 
),
), 
Royals by 13-2 margin 

Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. 
Marty Cordova hit a 455-foot homer, one of five home runs by Cleveland as the Indians routed the Kansas City Royals 13-2 Tuesday night. 
Juan Gonzalez, Eddie Taubensee and Cordova each homered and drove in three runs, and Ellis Burks and Russell Branyan also connected. Gonzalez, who hit a two-run drive off Blake Stein in a six-run seventh, has 29 RBIs in 24 games. 
Cleveland, which set a season high for runs, hit all its homers with two outs. 
Chuck Finley (2-2) won for the first time in five starts, improv­ing to 16-11 against Kansas City. He allowed two runs and six hits in seven innings. 
Chad Durbin (0-1), called up a day earlier from Triple-A Omaha, gave up a two-run homer to Burks in a four-run first and a three-run drive to Taubensee in the fourth that made it 7-0. 
Durbin allowed seven runs 
and five hits in four innings. 
Doug Henry gave up the 455­foot drive to Cordova. Three pitchers later, he allowed 435­
The University ofNotre Dame's The John /. Reilly Center for Science, Technology and Values 
Is pleased to announce that the following students have been selected as 
John J. Reilly Scholars 
In The Five Year Double Degree Program in Arts and Letters/Engineering 
Class of 2002 
Tiniothy Ray,nond Brick Lloyd Charles Cassidy IV 
The Notre Dame Chapter Of 
foot homer to Branyan. 
Durbin, who split time last year between Triple-A Omaha and Kansas City, walked Kenny Lofton leading off the first, then allowed an RBI double to Omar Vizquel. After a walk and a sac­rifice, Gonzalez hit a sacrifice fly. 
Durbin then retired his next nine batters before Cordova and Branyan singled ahead of Taubensee's homer. 
Mike Sweeney's sacrifice fly drove in a run for Kansas City in the fourth after second baseman Roberto Alomar's first error since last Sept. 27. Rey Sanchez had an RBI single in the fifth. 
Marlins 4, Cardinals 3 
Mike Lowell hit a two-run homer, Andy Benes walked in the tiebreaking run and the Florida Marlins rallied past the St. Louis Cardinals. 
St. Louis stranded 11 runners, grounded into three double plays and had a runner tagged out straying off third base on a missed bunt. Florida improved to 3-7 in one-run games. 
Rain fell during much of the game, but there were no delays. 
Ray Lankford hit his fifth home run and J.D. Drew his ninth in the fourth inning to help St. Louis take a 3-0 lead. 
I, 
I, 
' 

Saint MJsColleg~ 
O
NOTRE DAME INDIANA 
END OF THE 
YEAR MASS! 
Sunday, May b, 2001 '):00 PM Church of Our Lady of Loretto 
_There will be no masses in the residence halls May 6th. 

Congratulates And Welcomes 'Its New Members From The Class of 2001 
Ingrid Anderson Charles Ashbrook Sarni Assaf Matthew Baggetta Anna Benjamin Michael Blaha Timothy Bodony Zachary Bray Liam Brennan Rachel Bundick Collin Burkart Matthew Caccamo Karen Callan Robert Cellini James Chisholm JessJca Clchalskl Joseph Clamon Priscilla Clements Pat r 1ck C 1 cud Meghan Cokeley Shannon Couture Erin Cowell Christina Denman Christopher Dillon Paul Dougherty Joseph Doyle Michael Enyeart Scott Ford Andrea Formolo 
Susan Gloss Shannon Goodwin 
Sarah Haight Katherine Harco~rt Amy Harpole Jenifer Hayob Matthew Hedden Michael Heinz Steven Hemkens Margaret Hess Dawn Ho 1 1 c ky Rachel Hopf Kate Huetteman Jessica Hanley Jenks Amy Jongel Ing Jakub Langer Will lam Lauinger Elizabeth Leliaert Carrie Marshall Daniel Matejek Kevin McManus Ellen Ml 1 ls Dory Mitres Joseph Napolitano Michael Naumann Lynne Noelke Thomas O'Brien Brian O'Donoghue Kelly O'Hagan Andrew Olejnik Kyle Owens James Pastore, Jr. Michael Pedhlrney 
Anthony Polcarl Sarah Polito Michelle Pribbernow Katherine Rakowski Anne Ralph Jennifer Randall Megan Rector David Remus Thomas Repetto Robert Ridenour III Christopher Ripple Maureen Rodgers Andrea Shatzel Patricia Simone Mary Simonis Kate Simpson Matthew Stanwlx Daniel Storino Alena Stransky David Swtnarskl Chad Sylvester Carol lne Traval la Carolyn Weir Terrence Welch Jennifer Wellman Karen Wiener John Wr 1son James Wrzosek Daniel Zach Kara Zuaro 
Kristina Zurcher 
Wednesday, May 2, 2001 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 


.. 
u 
or 
I ¦ 
¦ 
Meet author 
Michael Ondaatje 
Friday 
-May 4 
7:00 pm 

in the Hammes Notre Dame Boolcstore 

Michael Ondaat·e 
Meet Poet and 
Bool<er Prize-winning 
author of The 
English Patient, 
Michael Ondaatje, as 
he presents his latest 
bestseller, Anil's 
-----------Ghost. 
HAMMES 

IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: 631-6316 • www.ndbookstore.com 

Wednesday, May 2, 2001
page 24 The Observer . SPORTS 
MEN'S BIG EAST TRACK AND FIELD CHAMPIONSHIPS 
Repeat not likely as Irish head to New Jersey 
At the same time, if he can't run "He ran well and he's come By NOAH AMSTADTER full speed, you've got to get what around," Millar said of Barber. Sports Editor you can get." , "If he continues to improve. he 
With Gilbert off the track, the may be able to sneak in there 
A year ago, Notre Dame domi­pressure is on senior Travis and score some points. At least nated the Big East outdoor Davey to produce in his final you feel like he's going to be championships, finishing with career Big East meet. Davey, competitive." 164 points to second place Conn­who finished sixth in the 100-The Irish should be strong in ecticut's 111. But that was a meters last season, enters the the triple jump and high jump team that boasted graduated week with the No. 2 time in the with the return of junior Quillian senior stars Chris Cochran, 100-meters and the No. 7 seed in Redwine. Redwine, who under­Marshaun West, Tim Kober, Phil the 200. went knee surgery in March, Mishka and Matt Thompson. "This being his last meet I hope posted a 47 -7 mark in the triple Now they all are gone, and some it'll give him a little more inspira­jump at Purdue last weekend. He key Irish athletes are competing tion," Irish sprints coach John already has cleared 6-11 in the at less than 100 percent. Millar said of Davey. a New York high jump outdoors this season. ,,. 
"We graduated a ton of native likely to compete in front "He's doing a great job," points," said Irish head coach of his family, "On the men's side Winsor said. "We're going to Joe Piane. "We'll still score in a in the sprints he's going to be key need to get some good points out lot of areas, but I don't know for us." of both of those events." how many big points we'll get. The injury bug also hit the -Winsor is looking for rejuve­We'll do OK. We were third Irish in the 400-meters. Senior nated efforts from the No. 2 ath­indoors, we hope to equal that Terry Wray fought off an ankle letes in each of Redwine's events. outdoors." injury in early April and failed to In the high jump, Andrew Cooper 
They will have to do that with­run a qualifying time for the finished first at the indoor con­out the services of top sprinter meet in the 400, his main event. ference meet, but has gone out Tom Gilbert. Gilbert, who owned With Wray out, only freshman early the past two weekends. the team's top time in the 200-James Bracken will compete in , "He assured me yesterday that meters during the indoor season, the 400, while Wray will he'll be ready to go," Winsor is limited to long jumping strengthen the Irish 4x400-meter said. "Coming from Coop, I like because of a lingering hamstring relay team. that. I'm confident he'll do well." Nathan Cahill, nursing a sore Thornburg will be looked at in injury. Last year Gilbert finished Wray will be joined on that Godwin Mbagwu, who cleared hamstring, will co~pete. the hammer, while Matt O'Brien fifth in the long jump with a leap team by Mike Mansour, 50 feet in the triple jump during "Josh is doing real well," and Mike Madigan are expected of 23 feet, 11 1/2 inches._ Napoleon Suarez and Bracken. the indoor season, sat out the Winsor said. "He's on the verge to score points in the javelin. 
"It kind of works to my advan­With Gilbert out, Millar will field last two weeks to nurse an ailing of vaulting real well. He can go In the distance races, the Irish tage for the long jump," Gilbert a 4x100-meter relay squad of knee. Mbagwu will compete out there and if he vaults well he are peaking at the right time. said. "I'm just jumping at the Big Davey, Mansour, Marton Gyulai alongside Gilbert in the long can win." Ryan Shay has qualified for the East. Without sprinting, long and Bill Hurd. jump and Redwine and Scott In the throws, the Irish hopes NCAA's in the 5,000-and 10,000 jumping is going to be a lot easi­Suarez and Mark Barber, Kelley in the triple jump. rest on Derek Dyer, who is seed­meters, while Pat Conway has er. Long jump at Big East is Notre Dame's freshman hur­"I think he's feeling really real­ed first in the discus. Freshman posted impressive marks in the going to be my main focus right dlers, both should compete for ly good," Winsor said. "He's feel­Juan Alba is also expected to 1,500 meters. Freshman David now." points. Barber placed first in the ing refreshed and healthy. He's score in the disc. Alber finished second in the 
But Gilbert's event coach, Scott 110-meter hurdles at Purdue last going to have to perform for us "[Dyer is] seeded No. 1 and if 3,000-meter steeplechase at Winsor, doesn't necessarily think weekend in a time of 14.86 sec­to finish where we want to be." he can go out there and throw Purdue. Gilbert is competing at his best. onds while ending up second in In the pole vault, Josh Heck -well he can win it." Winsor said. "I think we're starting to come 
"The only reason he feels com­the 400-meter hurdles at 56.23. who finished second during the "For the men to do what we. together," Shay said. "Everyone fortable long jumping is because Suarez ran the 400-meter hur­indoor season -should compete want them to do, our throwers on the team no matter what he's not running full speed down dles in 53.75 seconds, a time for the title while teammate Joe are going to have to pick up event knows that everyone to a the runway," Winsor said. ''I've ranked ninth in the conference Yanof is expected to compete for some points." man is going to have to come told him that. It's a speed event. heading into the week. points. It is uncertain whether John Scolaro and Brian through for us to do well." 
j 
I ­

TIM KACMAR/The Observer 
Marton Gyulai passes the baton to Godwin Mbagwu at a home meet earlier this season. Gyulal will run in the 4x100 relay while Mbagwu competes In the long jump and triple jump. 
I) 

In partnership
AUTOMATION 
With the 
Michigan Ecooomic Development
A L L =y™ 
Corporation 

[THE ALLEY] 

I 

Automation Alley, the nation's newest and fastest growing technology cluster is 
way out ahead when it comes to exciting opportunities and a great way of life. It's under­
standable why some of the world's leading corporations have chosen to headquarter here. 
More than 88,000 acres of parkland. 460-pristine lakes. Over 100 golf courses. Attractive, 
diverse communities. Competitive salaries and a cost of living that offers a big return on 
those salaries in one of the country's hottest settings-Oakland County, Michigan. 
Indicator Automation Alley Route 128 Silicon Valley 
(Oakland County) (Middlesex County) (Santa Clara County) 
Median Housing Price $192,337 $284,609 $463,234 Professional Salaries 
Mechanical Engineer $64,227 $61,217 $68,298 Electrical Engineer $67,410 $64,202 $71,550 Computer Programmer $54,184 $51,602 $57,821 Computer Analyst $68,895 $65,617 $73,092 Job Growth Since •97 4.0% 5.5% 3.2% Cost of Living Allowance 114.3 121.9 141.7 
Average = 100 
Check out new jobs now @ www.automationalley.com 
Interested In Internships? Cruise the web site! 
Wednesday, May 2, 2001 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 25 

&Welcomes 
you, your family and friends into our strong and growing alumni organization. 
GALA-ND/SMC (Gay and Lesbian Alumni/ae of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College) is an educational non-profit membership organization with over 800 members representing alumni, faculty, staffand families of the University and College. 
Our user-friendly organization has no official affiliation with-and receives no financial support from­the University or College. Our strength and support comes from our membership and our numbers. 
'lb receive your welcoming first-year membership packet and for more information about our organization visit our web site at: http://galandsmc.org/ e-mail us at: galandsmc@aol.com or write us at: GALA-ND/SMC, P.O. Box 257703, Chicago IL 60625 
!!!THANK YOU!!!CENTER FOR SOCIAL To all the students who are giving their summer to service-learning. Your dedication to compas­CONCERNS sion and social justice is evident. We hope the relationships you will form with members of your daycamps, shools, AIDS programs, shelters, children's homes, outreach centers, clinics, women's AnneAbbott-SSP care programs and hospitals, etc., will be valuable life experiences. Adrienne Allen-SSP Summer Service Project Internship • Hispanic/African American Leadership Intern Program -ACCION • JKohtn~varez-s-is5sPLP International Summer Service Leaming Program• National Youth Sports Program• a e "veson • I h' GI b I H I h I . . . Daniel Baig-SSP Chicago Latino Commun ty Interns 1p ­o a ea t nit1at1ve Amanda Baker-NYSP Meg K SSP Katherine Nagengast-SSP Mia Sari<esian-SSPMichelle Crone-SSP Jeffrey Goett-SSP an ovac-Katherine Ball-SSP Kri ti Kra SSP Annie Nagengast-SSP Chris Scert>o-lSSLPHyland Cronin-SSP Lourdes Gomez-UP s n mer-Bethany Bari<er-SSP Adam Kre -SSP Caroline Nardi-SSP Alex Schaefer-SSPKate Dalum-SSP Roberto Gonzalez-lSSLP nnSSP Greg Barry-SSP La v.:..:ckas-SSP Anabel Navarro-lSSLP Ryan Schoen-SSPJulie Davis-SSP Casey Grabenstein-NYSP ura NIYlAlice Bartek-SSP Lisa lachky-SSP Sarah Nedeau-ACCION Lisa Schreurs-SSPPam de 1os Reyes-SSP Michael Gracie-SSPCatherine Bateson-lSSLP Adam Laland SSP Son Ng• ..,..,.JJVSP Cana Scott-SSPDenise delaRosa-SSP Paul Graham-SSP e­\IJVlrn IJeremy Bauer-SSP H' La SSP Colleen O'Connor-SSP Jennifer Shim-SSPJuliana deSousaSolis-SSP Brian Gray-GHI 100 m-Edmund Baumgartner-SSP Beth La··..a.-ssP Matthew O'Rourke-SSP Drew Shula-SSPFrances Oevtin-SSP Sarah Green-SSP UU\LIP John Bauters-lSSLP Ceci Lavell-~sp Eric or.1nino-SSP Marissa Sims-ACCION11Julia Dickinson-5SP John Griffin-SSP IS""1 ;:rKatie Bears-SSP K th · Li 1-SSP Kelly Otterbacher-SSP Jenn Siirola-lSSLPBen Dillon-lSSLP Erin Griswold-SSP a anne egeKath9fine Bed<-NYSP A..1.1--L n-SSP Keri Oxley-CLCI Ellen Smith-SSP -Elizabeth DililkrSSP Anne Grossestrener-SSP 1"11>1­ogaChristina Belmonte-SSP Dusti L -SSP Helena Pan-SSP Edward Smlth-SSPTanesha Dixon-lSSLP Brigitte Gyrrther-SSP n opezCLCI Katie Beresford-SSP Ch 'sti L SSP Staci Pangl&-SSP Travis Smith-SSP · · s· ACCION John Donnelly-lSSLP Anne Hainley-SSP n na oya-Dom,mc 1scuso­St hen L ke-SSP Dawn Pari<s-SSP Rachel Smith-SSP,,,,,. Maggie Donohue-SSP Colleen Harkins-NYSP ep uSNicole Bonk-SP K L ht ISSLP Teresa Paulus-SSP Katy Solic-NYSP -· · SSP Meaghan Oonovan-NYSP Lacey Haussamen-SSP aren ysag •B 8ACCC•N en ozicevic­u H • -S p John Mack-SSP Allan Peelz-SSP Daniel Spoon-SSPJedidiah Oooley-ACCION matt eibel S Amy Braun-lSSLP Sharon Dowdell-,NYSP Katie Hennessy-SSP Jim Madden-Special Blaine Pennington-SSP Megan Sprague-SSP Lisa BritnaU-ISSLP En'n Doyle-SSP Jessica Hemandez-SSP Evan Maher-SSP Michele Perry-LIP Melissa Spurr-SSPMatthew Brummer-lSSLP Tinvdt.u p1·11ari-SSP Robert Stachecki-SSPA"fil Driver-SSP Lauren Hogel-,NYSP Allison Maimona-SSP ""'u,,Gretchen Bryant-SSP ,.,., B . H -SSP Jennifer Miucina-SSP Julie Piper-NYSP Jessica Stankus-SSPISSLP Sharon Bui-Special Kate Dumich-SSP rittany olden .., CC ONMaria Duque-SSP Mary Beth Holzmer-SSP Kelly Malloy-SSP Hillary Poan-SSP Kelly Stocker-A I Nicole Buri<ette-lSSLP Malia Durand-SSP Mary Hoopes-lSSLP Katie Malmquist-SSP Caitlin Polley-SSP Nny Lynn Stoelb-5SP Stephanie Burum-SSP Brookes Ebetsch-CLCI Stephanie Hoover-lSSLP Kathryn Malpass-SSP Timothy Ponisciak-SSP Kathrine Stolz-SSP Elizabeth Caballero-SSP Mike Mansour-NYSP Douglas Pope-SSP Elizabeth Stroude-SSPGHI Kate CabalerO-SSP Annie Effinger-lSSLP Megan Horvath-SSP Catherine Bchers-SSP Sally Hosey-SSP Erica Marin-SSP Benjamin Powers-SSP Jeff Szklarek-SSP Jessica Campbell-SSP Ka . H SS Matt Maun•-• c-c,p Joe Powers-SSP Lara Szynua-ACCIONKatie Ellgass-Nysp therine urley-P ~ Kevin Carney-SSP Diane Price-SSP Michaela Thompson-SSPSarah Casado-GHI Elizabeth Fallon-SSP Molly Janicld-SSP fwy McFarlane-SSP Kathryn Prizio-SSP Whitney Thompson-lSSLP Elizabeth Cassin-SSP Edward Faustin-lSSLP Nicole Jelovic-SSP 8izabelh McShane-SSPlh¥d,,!<.........._ ..............______ AM Feilmeyer-SSP Kari Jenkins-NYSP Anna Maria Mendez-UP Sara Rabe-SSP Jemar TISby-llP Megan Cavanaugh-SSP Jill Filmvr'tz-NYSP Felisia Johns-NYSP Mayra Mendoza.lSSLP Peter Raka.Yski-SSP Alexandra Torres-SSP Megan Chandler-SSP ...v u-'inda Redd,·.......ccp ea........ Torson-SSPKristin Aood-NYSP Jody Kahn-ssP Kalie Mllar-lSSLP men ''V""" ""'" Lindsay Chanes-NYSP Jesse ci-s-SSP Darren Kemaghan-SSP Jesse t.tller-NYSP Ryan Regan-SSP Anne Traynor-SSPMila Cheatom-SSP nun, Katie Rei_µa-SSP Eric Unrlne-SSP Ctvis Coleman-SSP Megan Flynn-SSP Hye-Jin Kim-ssP Coleen Moak-NYSP Nicholas Fonte-SSP Kristin King-lSSLP Julia Moncmlski-SSP Emily Rhyner-SSP Karen Utsd\ig-SSP Katherine Coleman-lSSLP Joshua F . .i......-SSP Matthew Kloser-SSP Sarah Am Mocn-SSP Pam Ronson-UP Jeanine Marie vatles-SSP Meghan Colgan-SSP UIUIUI Nicholas Rubino-ACCION Katie Van Tiem-SSP Katie Conklin-SSP Jemifer Gaisser-Sadler-SSP laura Knapp-SSP Wyme Morgan-SSPGina Gajdos-SSP Kristin Koloszw-SSP Brian Morris-ACCION Catherine Rliz-SSP Jill Van Weelden-NYSP Thomas Conner-SSP Alison Gienko-SSP Wendy Kosek-SSP Stephen Morrow-SSP Megan Ryan-SSP Erin Vanden Busch-sSP Lauren Conti-8SP Cimarron Gilson-lSSlP Karen Kosinski-SSP Maly Murphy-ssP Joshua Rynne-SSP Rya, van Tiem-SSP Naomi Cordell-SSP Katie M)1an-JSSLP Robert Sandoval-SSP Juan Diego Vargas-CLCI  James Veraldi-NYSP Miguel Vieyra-LIP Teresa Walsh-lSSLP Ashlee Warren-NYSP Kathryn Walter-lSSLP Courtney Weglein-SSP Kathryn Weil-SSP Rachel Weiler-NYSP Daniel Welch-sSP Seth Whetzel-SSP Patrick Whlte-lSSLP Erin Wibbens-SSP Ronald Williams-SSP Matthew Wohlberg-SSP Hillary Wozniak-SSP Richard Ysasi~NYSP Michael Zawada-SSP  

page 26 Wednesday, May 2, 200 I 
The Observer . SPORTS 
Gino Lollio. O'Tousa was the only
Baseball 
Wolverine hitter Ogilvie continued from page 32 didn't dominate, as the 
senior second baseman Ogilvie kept the ball down had three of Michigan's and made us infielders· five hits. look good." The Irish struck back 
Ogi-lvie's performance with two runs in the sec­has been typical of the ond, and again rallied in sophomore this season, the seventh for four more and the righthander has runs. turned into the Irish's Ogilvie was glad to see most reli-h i s able mid­team 
w e e k "After the first inning. take the starter. I felt I pitched pretty l e a d W i t h early.
well. My curveball 
Tuesday's ,, "Once 
was on.
w i n o u r Ogilvie offense took his put a
Pete Ogilvie 
season couple
pitcher
record to of runs 4-1 and on the secured board, his first complete game. it was 
Mainieri saw control as better," he said. the essence of Ogilive's The Irish ran their performance. record to 41-6-1 this sea­
"He had total command son, and tangle with of his pitches," Mainieri Western Michigan at said. home in Frank Eck 
An Irish player slides Into second In a game against Cleveland State. The Irish dominated the Wolverines 
"After the first inning, I felt I pitched pretty well,"  Stadium today.  of Michigan 9-1 Tuesday. They face Michigan State at home today.  
said Ogilvie, who leads  
the team in ERA with a  
1.20 mark. "My curveball  
was on."  
The  first  inning  saw  
Michigan score its only  
run of the game.  
Wolverine leadoff hitter  
Scott O'Tousa opened the  
inning with a single, and after Brock Koman  .,.......  ••~=;\~  : .  .,;.r,  .-»:_  • •~•--..••  :•.',i'{:• •  .• :•H••  •~za  
knocked a double to move  
O'Tousa to third. He even­ A  
tually scored on a sacri­fice fly by rightfielder  :  

;;i"'1 ·•~ American ~e.art .a
VI AWlilll Association.V
O ffl 
Fighting H,.,, 0/Mue and Stroi<O 
0,r(l;···j,; Choose
-~Mealthful 
.~&.v 
Foods 
Congratulations SENIORS!!! 
-~·S~~. (both graduating and rising) 
0 ~ School's out FOREVER!!! 
i I 
'I .00 
So come celebrate at the Alumni-Senior Club LAST DAY OF SCHOOL PARTY!!! 
And help us welcome in the new 2001-2002 staff: 
Bartenders 
Chris Bystedt Aaron Cook Jenn Dougherty Traci Graf Dave Jochim Sarah Affleck-Graves Pete Lish Jimmy Mandich Molly Norton Jen Pociask Julie Skluzacek Adam Urra Karen Utschig Tom Westfall 
I/ 
Student Managers 
month in· 2-4
Matt Altman Jeff harms 
hours a week 
Come party with us tonight at the Club. 
SERA CARE PLASMA 
Doors open at 9 -the fun starts flowing shortly thereafter. 
234-6010 515 LINCOLNWAYWEST 
BE THERE. 




-
Wednesday, May 2, 2001 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
page 27 
Stressed? Want to have some swanky fun before fina1s??? 
Big Band concert and Dance 
. ­
Sponsored by:The Not re Dame Swing and Flipside 

cost: $3.00 
where/when: 7-11 pm Friday, May 4 

JACC, Monogram Room (2nd f1oor) Dance contest: 9 pm, prizes awarded! 

THE DEPARTMENT OF AMERICAN STUDIES and THE JOHN \N. GALLIVAN PROGRAM IN JOURNALISIVI, ETHICS & DEMOCRACY 
Proudly Present The Following Awards to Graduating Seniors: 
THE HUGH o·oONNELL AVVARD for outstanding academic achievement to: 
Amy Harpole 
THE J. SINNOTT I\IIEVERS AVVARD for outstanding service to. the community to; 
Tim Greene ·Jennifer King 
THE JAMES E. MURPHY A\NARD for exceptional journalism t:o: 
Tim Logan 
THE PAUL NEVILLE AWARD for excellence in journalism to: 
Brittany Morehouse 
THE PROFESSOR JAMES VVITHEV A\NAR.D for notable achievement in writing to: 
Lindsay Frank 

• 
page 28 Wednesday, May 2, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Belles look to end season with championship 
ByKATIEMcVOY Associate Sports Editor 
It's time to live happily ever after. 
After finishing a fairy tale season with a perfect record in the MIAA. the Saint Mary's tennis team is looking for the first-ever MIAA 
title 'in· Saint Mary's history at this MIAA Championships this weekend. 
With an 8-1 victo­ry against Calvin on April 10, the team clinched a historic first place finish in 

the regular season. Knish All that's left is the ending. 
A win at the Championships would top off a dominant 7 -0 MIAA season. Beginning with a 9-0 victory against Adrian in March and wrapping up with a 9-0 win against Alma last weekend, strong play all season has answered the question of which team is the best. Now the Belles have to prove it one final time. 
• 
I 
• 
I 
• 
I 
• 
I 
• 
• ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ • ¦ 

• 
Self Lock Storage New Facility
1411 
~-S(Jlllte 
t"e.l'. 

'llt,4Nc1; 
I 
'Pad llcc~s • 
. .J

Join the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore for 
Baseball Talk 
. 
Saturday, May 5 2:00pm 

Featuring aRound Table Discussion with these authors: 
Dave Anderson Steve Krah Jim Langford Joel Hawkins 
&Terry Bertolino 
NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: 631-6316 • www.ndboakstare.com 
More Than Merkle Hitting and Hurling in the Heartland The Cubs Fan's Book ofDays 
The House ofDavid Baseball Team 
HAMMES 
"We're really excited and we're look­tion. Spriggle also dropped only two 
. ing to go in there and finally take a matches. playing all season despite championship," team co-captain Annie recurring blisters. Both are looking to Knish said. add a conference championship to an 
Although any member of the team already successful season. could come home from the tournament "I'm looking to win, but I know its a champion, the team is looking to going to be difficult especially with freshman Kaitlin Cutler to win the No. some of the three-setters' I played." 4 singles championship. Cutler has fin­Spriggle said. "I'm going to have to ished the season with a perfect record step it up and stay focused." in both MIAA play and non-conference Ryan also faces the possibility of play. coming home a champion. The sopho­
"Kaitlin Cutler is undefeated at No. 4 more, playing her second full season of singles," team captain Annie Knish college tennis, dropped only one match said. "It would be no shock to us if she all season in singles. brought home a conference champi­No. 1 and No. 2 singles players Annie onship." · Knish and Natalie Cook, although lack­
Cutler is not the only Belle who has ing undefeated records, are ready to faced MIAA competition undefeated make the day work for them. this season. Joining their classmate on "If it's our day, it's our day," Knish the undefeated list in singles, are said. "Everyone's had a real strong freshmen Jeannie Knish and Kris season and anything could happen out Spriggle and sophomore Elisa Ryan. there." Ryan dropped only one MIAA match in Knish dropped two singles matches No. 3 doubles against Hope. to league competition, falling to 
As freshmen. Knish and Spriggle Albion's Tracy Gray and Hope's have both completed excellent sea­Kristen Kooeyer. Knish is looking to sons. Knish finished her first year in repeat her close victory against college competition with only two loss­Calvin's No. 1 singles player and es on the year. both to Div. I competi-revenge her losses to Gray and Kooyer. 
., 
• 
I 
• 
I 
• 
I 
• 
"The greatest win I had was against Calvin's No. 1 singles player and I won that match 6-4, 7-5," Knish said. "I'm looking to take home another win against her. I'm playing the best I've played all season and I'm looking to go in there with a positiv.e attitude." 
Cook also dropped two matches, one to Albion's Amiee Greene, the other to Calvin's Sally Slodinski. 
The Saint Mary's doubles teams have been the consistent point winners for the Belles. The three teams have only dropped two matches out of 21 during MIAA play. Jeannie Knish and Cutlet are undefeated in the MIAA at No. 2 singles Annie Knish and Cook have posted a 6-1 record at No. 1 doubles and Ryan and sophomore Trisha Jones wrapped up a 6-1 record at No. 2 dou­bles with a win over Alma on Saturday. 
The tournament is run on an individ­ual basis. Each player plays off for places, securing a spot between one and seven. Team scores are tallied from the results of individual place fin­ishes. 
Action kicks off at Kalamazoo at 8:30 
a.m. on Friday. 

May9•12
r---------------7 : $1.00 Off UPS Shipping I 
1 · Per Box 1 
I (with this coupon) I
L---~----------~~ 
1oam-5pm 
277-6245 
Mal Boxes Etc. SR 23 aIronwood 2 blocks east of N.D. free Pick-ups 
,,,_.calOMOdol~ 
loJCh9di.dlt~lf 
We4nesday, May 2, 2001 page 29
The Observer . SPORTS 
Irish athletes take home honors at all-sport banquet 
player-of-the-year. was the The banquet honored more
Special to the Observer 
recipient of two of the Notre than 700 student-athletes from Dame Athletic Department's its 26 varsity sports with CBSRuth Riley, who led the Irish major awards presented at the Sports' Lesley Visser serving aswomen's basketball team to the seventh annual All-Sports the keynote speaker. The three2001 NCAA title and was the Banquet Monday night at the major athletic awards presented 
national women's basketball 
Joyce Center Fieldhouse. were -.The Byron V. Kanaley 
SUMMERJOBS t ENVIRONMENT 
If you are staying in the South Bend area this summer, The Citizens Action Coalition of Indiana is hiring individuals to staff environmental and consumer rights campaigns. 
Citizens Action Coalition is atwenty-five year old citizens lobby organization. 
Widl 350,000 memben statewide, we routinely battle the largest utilitiea 
and polluten in Indiana 911 behalfofcimelll...and win! Work on issues concerning fair utility rates, acleaner environmen~ campaign finance refoon, affordable health care, and ~nomicjustice for Indiana,sfamily farmers. 
Work M..f 2..1O:SO pm~Eam $350-$425/w~Work outdoors~ Sleep Late~sual atmospl1ere...Serious work. 
Call 23z..7905for more information. 
Cktc~ w.s out o~ the world wtdt web @www.ettact.org 
. 
Commence 
ViJeotapes are available! 
Commencement 
Comn1encen1ent Mass R()TC Con1n1issioning Law School Cercn1ony ~1BA/E~1BA Diplon1a 
Ccren1ony Architecture Graduation 
Order onlinc al: 
http://www.nd.edu/~solution 
Or contact: 
Office of lnformalion Teclmologies University of Notre Dame ATTN: Solutions CenterNideotapes P.O. Box 539 Notre Dame, IN 46556-1088 
Or call 219.631.9335 

L________________________________ 
Awards, The Francis Patrick 
O'Connor Award and The Chris 
Zorich Service Award. In addi­
tion, a member of each of team 
was selected from the Notre 
Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley 
Rockne Student-Athlete Award 
and the Notre Dame National 
Monogram Club MVP. 
Riley was one of four recipi­
ents of the Byron V. Kanaley 
Awards, the most prestigious 
honors presented to monogram 
athletes who have been exem­
plary as both students and ath­
letes. Joining her as Kanaley 
Award winners were baseball 
standout Mike Naumann, swim­
mer Matt Hedden and men's 
soccer midfielder/defender 
Connor LaRose. 
In addition to being one of 
four Kanaley honorees, Riley 
also was the winner of The 
Christopher Zorich Award 
which was first presented in 
1998. It was created to recog­
nize the contributions of Notre 
Dame student-athletes to the 
University and the community 
at-large. The award holds the 
name of Christopher Zorich, a 
two-time football All-American 
and 1991 graduate. 
Tennis All-American Michelle 
Dasso and men's soccer player 
Reggie McKnight are the win­
ners of this year's Francis 
Patrick O'Connor Award. Since 
1973, the University has pre­
sented this award named fora 
student-athlete who died in 
1973 following his freshman 
year at Notre Dame. Pat 
O'Connor was the son of 
William "Bucky" O'Connor who 
played guard in football for 
Notre Dame in the 1940's. 
The award honors one female 
and one male student-athlete 
who best display the toJal 
embodiment of the true spirft of 
Notre Dame as exemplified by 
their contributions and inspira­
tions to their respective teams. 
To be considered. student-ath­
letes must possess those quali­
ties attributed to Pat O'Connor 
himself-caring, courage, con­
fidence, encouragement, 
humilty, honesty, humor, kind­
ness and patience. 
Riley distiguished herself in 2000-01 as the best player in women's college basketball win­ning nearly every player-of-the­year accolade, including the Associated Press and Naismith awards. The two-time Associated Press All-American was named the Most Outstanding Player at the NCAA Final Four and Midwest Regional. The Irish co-captain became the first KODAK All­American in the history of the women's basketball program at Notre Dame when she was named to the 10-member squad this season. 
In addition, she swept all three major Big East Conference awards and was recognized as the league's play­er of the year. defensive player of the year (earning that honor for the third straight year) and women's basketball scholar­athlete of the year. She also was honored as the Big East's over­all female scholar-athlete award winner. 
Riley led the Irish in scoring and rebounding for the third consective in 2000-01 as she averaged 18.7 points and 7 .8 rebounds. She is the only player in Notre Dame history to score more than 2,000 points and 1,000 rebounds with career totals of 2,072 and 1,007, respectively. 
A two-time first-team Verizon Academic All-American, Riley also was selected as the Women's Basketball Academic All-American of the Year in 2001. A member of the Academic Honors Program at Notre Dame which pairs gifted student-athletes with a faculty mentor, she has been named to the Dean's List all seven semes­ters and owns a 3.648 grade point average. 
Coupled with her athletic and academic accomplishments, Riley was been extremely involved with Notre Dame's Life Skills Program and has been the featured speaker at many local schools within the South Bend community throughout her four years at the school and has par• ticipated in many local service projects involving elemetary. middle and high school age stu­dents. 
Hedden, a two-year mono­gram winner on the men's swimming and diving team, he served as team co-captain in 2000-01 and helped the Irish to a 7-2 dual meet record. The recipient of the Charles Blanchard award for outstand­ing contributions in physics, he has the highest cumulative grade points average on the men's swimming team with a 
3.927 grade index in physics. Last October, Hedden traveled to Williamsburg, Va., to present a research paper in physics to the Division of Nuclear Physics of the American Physical Society. 
LaRose. a three-year starter in the midfield for the Irish and a tri-captain of the men's soccer team in 2000, collected three goals and dished off seven assists during his career. Enrolled as a pre-professional major with a second major in ecomomics, he has been named to the Dean's List on four occa­sions and owns a cumulative grade point average of 3.449. He earned his first 4.00 grade index perfect 4.00 grade index follow­ing the 2000 fall semester and has been a three-time member of the Big East Academic All­Star team. Ll},Rose also was a third-team selection to the NSCAA Scholar-Athlete squad. 
Naumann, a three-year mono­gram winner, is a member of Notre Dame's pitching rotation that leads the nation with a 2.51 earned run average. The only left-handed pitcher on the Irish roster, he has a 3-1 record this season and. overall 10-2 career mark. He has helped the Irish to the No. 1 ranking in this season as his team has compiled a 40­6-1 record. 
Naumann owns a 3.92 overall grade point average and has earned a perfect 4.00 grade index on three occasions. He was Notre Dame's male scholar• athlete nominee for the annual Big East Conference award and has been named to the league's Academic All-Star squad three times. 
McKnight, a four-year mono­gram winner, started 29 of the 66 games for the Irish men's soccer team. and scored five goals, while dishing off seven assists. A member of the Academic Honors Program and a Dean's List student. he is an American Studies major with a 
3.463 grade point average. McKight has been extensively involved in Notre Dame's Life Skills Program and participated in the NCAA Foundation Leadership Conference in May of 1999. A three-time member of the Big East Academic All­Star team, he earned the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley Rockne Student-Athlete award as a junior. 


Wednesday, May 2, 2001 
WOMEN'S TRACK AND FIELD 
Grow hopes to overcome two losses to take home gold 





By NOAH AMSTADTER Sports Ediror 
Liz Grow is looking for redemp­tion -in a small, golden pack­age that she can hang around her neck. 
When the Irish head to New Jersey this weekend for the Big East outdoor track champi­onships, Grow -the 2000 indoor champion in the 400-meters ­will try to overcome two straight losing performances in her main event. She finished fourth at the 2000 outdoor meet and second at this year's indoor championships. 
'Tm definitely ready," Grow said. "I didn't have a good out­door meet last year. I'm ready to get out there and kick some butt." 
The Irish finished tied for third at the outdoor championships in 2000, a finish head coach Joe Piane feels his team can surpass. 
"A lot of the women didn't graduate from last year's group. We're a little bit stronger than we were so we'd like to think we can be as good if not a better than we were at last year's meet," Piane said. "We can get points in a lot of areas." 
For the first time in recent memory, one of those areas is the sprint relay teams. The Irish bring the top 4x100-meter relay time into Piscataway, an NCAA . provisionally qualifying mark of 
44.74 seconds. 
The team of Grow, Kristen Dodd, Ayesha Boyd and Tameisha King clocked in at 
45.44 last weekend at the Drake Relays. 
..We've never had a strong sprint relay until this year," Grow said. "We're competing on a national level. It's going to be awesome to take that home." 
Subtract King from that group and add sophomore Kymia Love and the relay becomes Notre Dame's 4x400-meter squad that provisionally qualified for the NCAA's at Drake with a time of 
3:37 .06. Despite his teams' recent success, Irish sprints coach John Millar is taking noth­ing for granted at the Big East meet. 
"I think we're fourth in the conference in the 4x400," Millar said. "Georgetown, Seton Hall, Pitt and Miami are ahead of us. In the 4x100 I think we're second behind Seton Hall." • 
The Irish sprint core will also be relying on Boyd, Dodd, Love and King in individual events. 
In the field events, Jaime Volkmer and Dore DeBartolo have busy weekends ahead of them. 
Volkmer will compete in the pole vault, triple jump and long jump. 
She broke her own school record in the pole vault last weekend at Purdue. clearing 12 feet, 6 inches. 
Irish field events coach Scott Winsor says Volkmer, just six inches off of qualifying for the NCAA's, is vaulting with added confidence as of late. 
"I think she's just now under­
standing the vault," Winsor said. 
"Knowing that when she leaves 
the ground she has left the 
ground in a way that is going to 
get her penetration into the pit, 
so she's not going to miss the pit. 
If you leave the ground with that 
confidence, it's going to help the 
whole vault. She's vaulting with 
much more confidence." 
While she is expected to com­pete for first in the pole vault, Winsor is just hoping to see . 
Volkmer compete for points in ranked third. 
the long and triple. 'Tm just hop­Winsor thinks she can do bet­ing that she can be fourth or ter after not long jumping last 
fifth," Winsor said of the triple weekend. jump. "She's going to have to ''We gave her the weekend off perform very well to do that. The from jumping, I think she needed national champion in the triple it," Winsor said. "She's going to jump came from the Big East two have to step up to·the plate. She's years ago. It's a very, very com­seeded third and she's going to petitive event." have to place hopefully better 
DeBartolo will throw the shot than third. She's definitely capa­put, discus, hammer and javelin ble of jumping further than she in a busy weekend. has this year." 
Winsor expects the junior to In the final field event, Winsor score points in the shot put, ham­thinks freshman Jennifer mer and discus -an event he Kearney can score in the high feels she can win. The team's jump. hopes of competing for a high "She's going to have to g0 and overall finish depend on it. clear 5-7 on her first attempt," 
"Our women have a shot," Winsor said. "Misses are always Winsor said. "We can go out crucial in the pole vault and the there and be in it. For us to do high jump. It can drop you three that our throws kind of rely on places in a heartbeat." Dore. She's going to need to go In the distance races, the Irish out there and perform." are led by freshman Megan 
King, who finished second in Johnson. Johnson finished third the long jump at the conference at the Mt. Sac relays in the 1,500­meet a year ago with a leap of meters earlier this spring with a 21-1 1/2, comes in this year time of 4:30.66. 
E><Cn'IWG WEW HISTORY COURSES FOR FAU 2.001 
~ ' -' .~­. 1:; ·•· ' : ~:Ji., :J<i:,' . . .. ,_: . . ··.· ' 
.HIST 439:·M/N ·HISTORY OF CUBANS ~N THE 

-. :. :~ . 
~•: ,!4;/~t~•. f:...~\~~~~~,\.;:i •.:.~•-~:_',:•:P./.:: · .;• C •
:•~••. a, 
.. H1s=r:4511_M)JPJ~f.~.MODERN' JAPAN -MW 
. . :•·. . . . :_ ,. . : :i'' ,: .\ _· . . . ; : . . . ' . 
1:30,..; 2:45 · -· ... ,·; ,.: 
· -? 1 . • .. -)ii r 
1}B1sT~:455 ·M;·~ ·coNtEPTS OF NATURE AND :'.'ff:!~l~E~Yl~P.~NI.ENT IN JAPAN AND EUROPE 
MW '4:3(i:. 5:45 . 

i;l 
We're just trying to change the lives of a few kids. Four thousand inner-city kids in Newark, NJ, to be exact. We have this crazy idea that summer schools, after-school programs, trips to a eladership camp and comprehensive medical 
care will give our students a fair shot. 
We're not trying to change the world, but we're pretty sure our students will. 

For more info on becoming a student teacher or camp instructor this summer, Call 973-877-0980 Or visit www.kidscorporation.org 

4-5 Bedroom House for Rent Now 2001-2002 School Year 
-close to campus
.
-security system -washer/dryer 
Call 634-2458 for more info. 



_. 
Wednesday, May 2, 2001 page 31 
The Observer . TODAY 

TYLER
THINGS COULD BE WORSE
FOURTH AND INCHES ·TOM KEELEY 
WHATELY 
Fox TROT BILL AMEND 


.. 
The hardest part about studying for finals is finding a good 
.. 
spot to study...and then going to aqy length to keep it. 
EUGENIA LAST 
CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 37 Word with sand 67 Shingle words or bottom 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON those you live with are happy.
1 Big drawer? 68 Deductions from 
THIS DAY: Catherine O'Hara, Make any necessaty arrangements
38 Sen. Hatch gross weight
6 Duck Steven Weber, Emilio Estefan, conreming your personal life. 000 40 Tattoo favorite 69SAS Kay Lenz, Patsy Kensit VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22):
11 Groundskeeper's 
purchase 42 Cut's partner announcement Happy Birthday: You will Become involved in worthwhile 70 She played have so much on your plate this ventures. Be cautious not to be
43 More crackers
14 Be of service to Thelma in year that you may run yourself too demanding or negative with 15 Kind of pie 45 Start of a triple "Thelma and into the ground if you aren't youngsters. Help with their p~ jump selective in your choices. Back up ects and praise them for their
16 Forum greeting Louise" 
and decide what you really want efforts. 0000
47 Oodles 71 T, for one
17 Blithe fish? to achieve and set your game LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22):
48 Elvis movie 
plan in motion. You don't need to Your partner will be less than
19 Good time, 
sequel? do it all to be successful. Slow acn:,mmodating. Be prepared to get
informally DOWN 
51 Slave girl of down, enjoy life and focus on the out and mingle with new friends. It
1 Colorful parrot
20 Suffix with block one thing you feel most comfort­is best to reserve judgmenton those
opera 
2 Duck able doing. Your numbers: 16, 27, who are secretive. 00
21 From the sticks 52 Liver is good for 
3 Had a feeling 31, 39, 44, 47 SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):
22 Spill the beans it 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You need to experience new and
4 Ltd., in Paris 
23 Tightly packed 56 Act the mother Emotional frustration will make exciting things. Take trips or sign hen 5 Noyes or Nobel it difficult for you to concentrate. up for courses that will offer
25 Shake off 
6 With 61-Down, Don't try to deal with negative adventure and a host of interest­
59 Exasperating
27 South American a Big 12 situations. Let tempers cool down ing alternatives. 00000 misfit? 62 Dancer Miller campus city and think things over before you SAGl'ITARIUS (NO'II: 22-Dec. 21): 63 Bit of binary speak your mind. 00 You may as well relax and enjoy
33 Item on a card 7_Cong 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): yourself. Projects you start today36 Ingrid's code 8 Treasury You have to be careful not will lead nowhere. Spend time
64 Forbidden tea?
•Anastasia" Secretary Paul to offend someone with your with loved ones. 000 co-star 66 Fix, in a way strong convictions. Problems with CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan.19):
9 Freezing 
friends or relatives will stem from Your emotions will be unstable.
10 First of 50: Abbr. 
discussions concerning beliefs. Be careful not to stretch the truth ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 It's a long story Avoid fanatical individuals. 000 or blame others. If you make "!!!!"'I".,.,...,-.""' 12 Like an oxe_ye Puzzle by Gr9g Staples GEMINI (May 21-June 20): changes in your home, be sure Don't let your emotions interfere your family approves the plans
window 
34 Like some 53 Language from 57 Module when dealing with personal finan­before you start. 00 
.....+....+-e!!+!!!!"'t 13 Pigeonhole's 
traditions which "kiwi" 58 Nintendo rival cial matters. You have to learn to AQUARIUS Qan. 20-Feb. 18):
place 
comes say no to those too eager to spend Invite friends over. You should
35 Language of 60 Zen riddle
18 Not pale, as a your hard-earned cash. 000 make changes to your residence or
Pakistan 54 Central
complexion 61 See 6-0own CANCER (June 21-July 22): look into property investments. 39 Nostalgic soft 55 Frequent Woody 64 Telephone _ Talk to the one you love. Voice your You can make a difference ifyou're.....,_,._.... 22 Prevaricate 
drink complaints instead of letting your willing to help others. 000
Allen theme 65 "Well, _-di­
.....,....,......,..,. 24 Was creative 
hostility grow. You can accomplish PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20):
41 Pronoun for s& Driver's alert dahl"
.....,....,=+,,... 26 Pen provisions household projects ifyou' re willing Spend some time with children
Miss Piggy 
to work together. 00 or dose friends. You need some..;+,..;.a..;;,..;.."""""' 28 No-good 
44 Extend, as LEO Quly 23-Aug. 22): Work physical activity to release the
29 Western airline spokes Answers to any three clues in this puzzle on home-improvement projects. stress and tension you've been 30 To boot are available by touch-tone phone: Take the time to make sure that housing. 00000
46 Eighty-eight
..,....,.....,.....~~ 31 Drudge in 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute) . 
cyberspace 49 Sing like a bird Birthday Baby: You are sensitive and always aware of other people's 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 
feelings. You are giving, incredibly creative and willing to try new things.
32 Son of Zeus 50 They're full of best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
You will stick to what you start if given the proper encouragement 
bullion years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
-----(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com,
--.....--33 Long pass 
eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
10 2001 Universal Press Syndicate 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and n1ail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name _____________________ Address ____________________ City _______State ____ Zip______ 
...:., 

Happily Ever After 
The Saint Mary's tennis team is looking to wrap up a fairy tale season at the MIAA Championship Saturday. 

page 28 
O
THE page 32 BSERVER Wednesday, May 2, 2001 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Instructing the Irish 
Bobby Clark brings focus to struggling Irish program 




By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Sports Editor 
Change is in the air. 
After a 7-8-2 season in which the Irish men's soccer team failed to qualify for the NCAA Tournament, the Notre Dame athletic department decided not to re-hire interim head coach Chris Apple. Instead, they launched a nationwide search for a head coach that netted Bobby Clark, Stanford's head coach since 1996. 
As the head of the Cardinal pro­gram, Clark's teams amassed a 71­21-12 record in five years, including a trip to the NCAA Championship game in 1998. Before Clark's arrival, the Stanford program struggled ,to finish above .500. 
The native of Scotland becomes the third Irish head coach in three sea­sons. Mike Berticelli coached the Irish for 10 seasons before his sud­den death last winter. Following Berticelli's -death, assistant coach Apple was named head coach. Apple is now the head coach at his alma mater, Rochester. 
Teaching the Game 
Clark coached at Dartmouth before coming to Notre Dame and prides himself in his role as a teacher -a role many players found lacking in the program last season. 
"I'd like to think that I am a teacher," Clark said. "I want to think that would be my biggest strength. Hopefully I can satisfy that need. That would be possibly my strongest suit." 
In fact, it was that desire to teach talented student athletes that brought Clark to coach in America. 
"I think that was the way I always looked at my reasons for coming to this country to work in soccer was the fact that I could both work with top-class athletes and I could also be a teacher," Clark said. "If I stayed in Scotland. there doesn't really exist that opportunity." 
So Clark relished the opportunity to work with the caliber of athletes that play in the NCAA, first at Dartmouth, and later at Stanford. 
"Coming to a Dartmouth, to a Stanford and certainly to a Notre Dame, this gives you a tremendous opportunity to work with smart young guys, who also may be the top athletes in the country," he said. "For me it's a perfect situation." 
What Clark finds most attractive about such challenging academic institutions is the type ofstudent-ath­letes they attract. 
"Most people who come to places like Stanford and Notre Dame are very highly motivated," Clark said. "The one thing you can do when you take over a program, you can't change the personnel, you can't alter the skill level dramatically. but what you can alter is the attitude and the desire." 
Clark noticed this trend just after arriving in South Bend and observing the Irish women's basketball team's run to a national title. 
"What Muffet McGraw has done, as far as I understand she had no McDonalds All-Americans on her team, was win a national champi­onship and win it well," Clark said. "We've got people that really want to do well in the college years." 
First step 
The teaching started this spring, as the team practiced daily from mid­March on and posted a 3-2-2 record 
see CIARK/page 20 

Ogilvie leads Irish to 9-1 blowout against Wolverines 
Gold, giving up just five hits look forward to this game," early on the Wolverines and offense has been defense.
By JEFF BALTRUZAK 
and a single run in his com­said senior shortstop Alec continually put Michigan Notre Dame didn't make an 
Assistant Sports Editor 
plete game Porzel. who had an RBI in the pitching on the ropes. guided error against the Wolverines. effort. contest. "You can't help but by Porzel's two hits and multi­and the defensive effort was 
When it's Michigan, don't 
The rival­get excited." hit performances by center­punctuated by what Mainieri 
expect Notre Dame to take the ry between Irish head coach Paul fielder Steve Stanley and des­called "major-league plays" in game lightly. 
N o t r e Mainieri readily agreed with ignated hitter Ken Meyer. the field. Michigan was on the receiv­
Dame and his captain. · "On offense, every time we Stanley complimented his 
ing end of the Irish drive in a Michigan "I can't lie, I think there's a had an opportunity the guys offensive outbreak with sever• 9-1 blowout of the Wolverines wasn't lost little extra energy in our guys came throu&h with the big al highlight catches in center­
Tuesday at Comstock Park, 
on any of when you look over and see hit," said Mainieri. field. 
Mich. 
the victors. 'Michigan' across their Lost this season among the "The defense played out of
Ogilvie
Starting righthander Peter "I think chests," he said. lrish's nationally recognized its mind," said Porzel. "Pete Ogilvie pacified the Maize and the upperclassmen always The Irish offense jumped up pitching staff and resurgent 
see BASEBALUpage 26 
• 
Tennis
Baseball 
at MIAA Tournament 
vs. Western Michigan 
SPORTS 
Kalamazoo, Mich. Women's Lacrosse
Today, 5:05 p.m. 
Friday -Saturday at Syracuse
ATA 
• 
Saturday, 1:00 p.m. 
Softball Track and Field 
•
at Villanova at Hope College
GLANCE 
Friday, noon Friday -Saturday 

-. page 2 The Observer . BELLES PREVIEW Wednesday, May 2, 2001 

Belles cross finish line victorious 
Standing at the finish line and looking back at the race, the runner hopes she has achieved a victory. Maybe her victory is a first place finish, a personal best or a new record. But perhaps her victory is simply finishing the race. 
She looks back at the time she has spent preparing. She looks at th~ last year, the last month, the last week, the last 10 sec­onds of the race. She thinks about each step on the way to the finish line and she wonders what she has accomplished. 
She thinks about the sweat of hard work, the pain of losing and the tears of victory. She looks at where she stands now and she wonders if she has won. 
The Belles are approaching the finish line. But it's not just the end of a race they are fac­ing, ifs the end of an era. There is one final race to run and when it is over they will stand wondering what they have accomplished. 
On Saturday, each member of the Saint Mary's track team will put on her uniform for the last time. She will ask her coach for some final advice for the last time. She will wish her friends luck as a teammate for the last time. And she will cross the finish line for the last time. 
The race will be over and there is no starting line in the future. 

Next year, with no starting line to look at, there will be plenty of time to look at the race from the finish line. What kind of race was it? 
It was a race for survival, it was a race for the love of a sport and it was a race full of sacrifice. 
The 11 women who will be taking part in the MIM cham­pionship meet on Saturday will be looking at the sweat of their hard work, the pain of their losses and the tears of victory. 
The sweat of hard work 
All season the Belles have struggled to raise money to keep the team in existence. They have worked at fundrais­ers and called on their fellow students to show their support. Each one has labored at prac­tice to reach a personal best and show the Saint Mary's communityshe is not going to go out quietly. 
The team meets daily to practice. It travels the distance not only in the race, but just to reach practice. These women are willing to spend the time traveling to Saint Joseph High School or to Notre Dame to use facilities that are currently unavailable to them. They have worked at every meet they have competed in, some of them participating and placing in three, four or even five events on any given Saturday. 
The sweat that has fallen 
· from their hard work has reached ground that will be broken as a new era begins in Saint Mary's athletics. 
The pain of loss 
It's obvious where the loss of this race lies. Early this semester Saint 
Mary's athletic director Lynn 
Kachmarik announced that the 
athletic department would no 
longer sponsor a varsity track 
team. The 2001 season would 
be the last one for now. 
The women of the track team face losing a sport they have been dedicated to for most of their lives. They face the loss of a coach who has supported their school for 18 years with· out asking for anything in return. They face the loss of the comradeship created by working together and support­ing each other as a team. 
But even these great losses may find justification in the victory that has been achieved by these women in the last months of their existence as a team. 
The tears of victory 
It is a bittersweet day that has come for the women of this team. Vi.ctory is theirs, but it does not come without tears. 
The accomplishments of this race are more than can be counted. Each member of the Saint Mary's track team that has crossed this final finish line should cross with her head held high. She has crossed the hardest finish line of all -the finish line that brings with it a start for someone else. 
Participation numbers have doubled since last season. Four school records have been bro­ken, and the Belles have a pos­sible national qualifier among their numbers. Those are wor­thy accomplishments in any race. But those are not the ulti­mate victory. 
With the finish of this race, the track team has promised a new beginning for the athletic department. By sacrificing a sport that they love, these women have opened the door ishes in the MIM. a new track for a new era in Saint Mary's team with equipment worthy of athletics. women who won't give up. 

The department has been Thanks to the sacrifice of one struggling with a limited bud­group of women, these things get, and in order to move for­are now possible. ward towards a new starting Standing at the finish line line, some race had to end. But and looking back at the race, now, the new starting line is at these women can say that vic­least in sight. And think of the tory was theirs. possibilities -a first class ath­The opinions expressed in letic program that highlights this column are those ofthe the importance of the life of the writer and not necessarily body. consistent first place fin-those ofthe Observer. 
Up close and personal with the Belles 

Adebamowo 

Bergeman 

Burket 

Dudding 
Kemi Adebamowo Year: 2004 Hometown: New Orleans. La. Events and personal bests: 
Shotput Discus Javelin -85 feet Notes: Recently recovering . 
from a sprained ACL. 
Kara Bergeman Year: 2001 Hometown: Milan. Ohio Events and personal bests: 
Javelin -49-11 Shotput -25-0 Discus -69-7 Notes: Team co-captain 
Erica Burket Year: 2002 Hometown: Grand Rapids. Mich. 
Events and personal bests: 
100 hurdles-16.24 (record) triplejump -34-0 (record) high jump. 400 hurdles Notes: Team co-captain 
Anne Dudding Year: 2004 Hometown: St. Joseph. Mich. 
Events and personal bests: 
100 hurdles -18.76 
Nicole Garcia Year: 2004 Hometown: Mishawaka. Ind. 
Events and personal bests: 
1.500 -5:42 3,000 -I 1:52 
Garcia 
Laura Graf Year: 2002 Hometown:Aberdeen, S.D. Events and personal bests: 
Boo -2:19.77 Notes: Grafs Boo time is second in the leaguge. 
Graf possibly good enough for a national qualifier 
Akmaral Omarova Year: 2002 Hometown: Almaty. Kazakh tan 
Events and personal bests: 
long jump -12-7 triple jump -27-5 
Omarova 
Whitney Ross Year: 2003 Hometown: Barrington, Ill. Events and personal bests: 
1.500 -5:36 3,000 -13:05 Notes: Missed last season 
Ross because ofa knee injury 

Shepkowski 
Stoerger 
Thompson 
Becky Shepkowski Year: 2004 Hometown: Coal City. Ill. Events and personal bests: 
Long jump -14-2 Triple jump -32-7 4 x 100 relay 
Lauren Stoerger Year: 2004 Hometown: Cisco. Ill. Events and personal bests: 
Javelin -76-0 Notes: Recovering from three stress fractures 
Jaclyn Thompson Year: 2004 Hometown: Clinton, Mass. Events and personal bests: 
pole vault -8-6 (record) Notes: Thompson is the first pole vautler in Saint Mary's history. 


Wednesday, May 2, 2001 
The Observer . BELLES PREVIEW 
Easy going to the very end 
. Szczechowski wraps up 18 years as Belles coach 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
Sports Writer 
Like he has done every afternoon for 18 seasons, coach Larry Szczechowski walked out behind the softball diamond 
Monday, two under­class ath­letes fol­lowing in his foot­steps. He lifted the door of a 

dilapidat-Szczechowski 
ed, paint-
chipped garage on the back of 
Saint Mary's property and 
took out equipment for the 
afternoon practice. 
Out of sight from the main 
doors of Angela Athletic 
Facility and hidden by the 
freshly-painted dugouts of the 
softball field, Szczechowski 
made small talk with his play­
ers about biology finals, about 
the upcoming MIAA champi­
onship meet, about the after­
noon's practice. On a 
makeshift green where two of 
the field athletes practice 
javelin and discus. he offered 
cautious advice, casually 
supervising, never getting 
excited. 
"Not so high," he called out 
to freshman Laura Stoeger, 
who continually pushed the 
coach's limits by throwing 
harder. "You don't want a 
sore arm for Saturday." 
But then again, that's Coach Ski -cool. calm and collect­ed. Even at the heels of a Jan. 30 administrative decision that means his 18-year tenure as coach of Belles track and field will end along with the program, his calm demeanor has held the last fragments of the team together. Like he's done for the past 18 years, Coach Ski makes do with what he has -even if there's not much left. 
The lone coach for a team of 
13, Szczechowski has coached 
the Belles team flying solo for 
the past 15 seasons. Spreading 
himself over the sprinters, the 
distance runners and the field 
events, Szczechowski has been 
a. one-man show, driving the team in the school van to away contests and setting up agreements with Notre Dame and St. Joe High School so his athletes can practice on real facilities. When the numbers dwindled on his team, he went out on a recruiting campaign by himself to boost the num­bers. 
"He is going so far and beyond the resources that Saint Mary's is giving him," said Lyn Kachmarik, director of athletics. "He'd do it for free, but he shouldn't be doing this for free." 
Szczechowski is the longest­employed member of the entire Saint Mary's athletic department. He has worked under four separate athletic directors and has been the only stable figurehead of the nine varsity sports that have trouble retaining coaches for longer than three years. With no practice facilities, dwin­dling roster numbers and low pay, it's hardly the dream coaching job. 
But he doesn't care. "To me, the best thing that 
ever happens to me in coach­
ing is when an athlete says. 
'Coach, that's the best I have 
ever done," he said. "We have 
people here that over the 
years have gotten the opportu­
nity for recognition ... it's just 
the dedication you get out of 
people and [the] desire to 
improve." 
His attitude is not. lost on his 
athletes, who range from 1999 
All-American Stacy Davis to 
this year's senior captain Kara 
Bergeman -who wouldn't 
have even joined the track and 
field team at Saint Mary's had 
it not been for Szcechowski's 
coaching approach. 
"He is the only reason why I joined," Bergeman said. "I went to the track meeting freshman year. and wasn't going to sign up. But there was just something about him that said, 'It's OK, you'll be able to make it." 
For Bergeman and the other athletes on the track and field team, Szczechowski continues to make it OK, arriving early and staying late during sched­uled practice times to accom­modate athletes with conflict­ing majors, clubs and commit­ments. He runs three separate practices a day for the dis­tance runners, the sprinters. and the field events after his full-time job as a physical edu­cation teacher for South Bend Public Schools. 
But again. he doesn't care. 
"It's not that hard," he said. "For any track athlete, you don't need to spend a whole lot of time (practicing.] You can be done in an hour and a half, two hours." 
After 18 years of effort -of making do with what he's got -Szczechowski will turn in his varsity coaching towel at the end of this weekend when the Belles track and field team takes to the lanes for the last time. And while he promises to come back to coach his ath­letes on a club team he wants to start next fall,.that doesn't mean he's made his peace with the decision. 
"There's a lot that I don't understand as a coach," he said. "They say we need 30-35 [athletes] to be competitive, and that would be great. We would like to be like Calvin, we would like to be like Hope. But Olivet has seven [athletes] ... Adrian has 17, Albion has 17 or 18, Alma has 21 ... we're in the ballpark with those teams." 
For the track team to be reinstated, athletic adminis­trators have said that nearly $1 million needs to be 
phone still rings in the coach's office with prospective stu­dents looking for information about the program, Szczechowski isn't returning the calls anymore. 
"They did"n 't want me to come to Spring Day on Campus [to recruit] so there wouldn't be confusion," he said. "I have [a recruit] I can't even call back -because what do you say to them?" 
For a young squad -one that Szczechowski has hand­built with seven freshmen ­the future, he thought, was looking bright. Numbers were up, and if projected numbers came through, he expected to add seven or eight more fresh­men to the roster next year. Still, with poor retention rates, the program still struggles, churning out a few notable athletes in the MIAA every now and then. 
"We don't have a first team or a second team. Everyone is able to compete and that's good," he said. "We wanted to be competitive and have a conference champion -and we've done that. We think we have an outside chance at having a conference champion again this year." 
Whether they're the stand­
.. 
outs or the bottom half of the lineup, the athletes that sign up for Szczechowski's roster appreciate his effort. and have noticed the toll the decision has taken on the coach ­however selfless he is. 
"He tries to put up a good front for us ... a mature front," said junior first-year track athlete Jessica Coulter. "He's hurt, I think ... but he's trying to be professional. It's more of a quiet resignation. He knows that there isn't anything he can do." 
"My heart goes out to him ... this is his life. I know its going to kill him next year," said junior Erica Burket . 
Szczechowski won't let his team think about the end going into the Championships this weekend, however. From the get-go after the decision was made, he told his team they would do one thing: stay competitive, and show Saint Mary's and the MIAA they were competitive. And when the weekend is over, Szczechowski will hang up his varsity coaching career, stop checking his mailbo?C in Angela for a paycheck~~ and look to next year when he'll take over the proposed club track program -for free. 
poured "He is going so far and into the 
beyond the resources 
program. 
Saint Mary·s is giving 
But with other con­him. He·d do it for free. s tru cti on 
but he shouldn't be doing
projects 
this for free. ··
connected with the .Master 
Lyn Kachmarik 
Plan on the 
athletic director
horizon, fund rais­ing efforts specifically for the track and field team aren't even a possibility at the moment, said Szczechowski and Kachmarik. 
"The timeline is that build­ing project," Szczechowski said. "They told us not to do any fundraising because if we got any big amount of money they would have to talk that person into giving money for the Master Plan." 
"The College is very commit-ted to the Master Plan, and athletics is a part of that," Kachmarik said. "If somebody comes along and wants to donate 1 million, people are going to have to sit down and say, 'This is what our priori­ties are.' Of course we need a 

new athletic facility. But the decisions the College made about the Master Plan were not made lightly." 
Still, even after his pro­gram was cut, Szczechowski still made do with what he had and checked into resources of 
his own. Calling around to contractors who built another local track, he came up with a price tag of his own ­$220,000. 
"That's a big difference from 5 -600,000," he said. 
Still, as the program nears its own finish line, despite promises from the administra­tion to bring it back, it's hard for the coach who has made do for so long to let go. As the 

• page 4 Wednesday, May 2, 2001 
The Observer . BELLES PREVIEW 
Belles no longer building for the future 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Sports Writer 
For three years, Kara Bergeman gave her life to the track team. She made sacrifices physically, academically and socially for 
the team. Her senior year was supposed to be the culmina­
tion  of  
t  h  r  e  e  
years  of  


dedication. Bergeman 
Instead, after athletic director Lyn Kach­marik and college administra­tors canceled the track and field program at Saint Mary's on Jan. 30, it has been a nightmare. 
"What happened this year has killed my senior year," the lone senior on the team said. "I am so angry at the administration and at the College. It has killed my senior year." 
Bergeman has been through a lot in her four years as a throw­er for the Belles, but nothing prepared her for Kachmarik's announcement. When Bergman talks about end of the program, she can't help but cry. 
"It is so incredibly sad," Bergeman said. "We have such talent in our team. All of those girls are so talented and to squelch that is just wrong." 
Bergeman is far from the best athlete on the team. She will not challenge for the top spot in the MIAAs this weekend or break any school records. But her ded­ication to the Belles is unques­tionable. 
In her freshman year, she injured her knee and missed the entire season. Not once did she throw a discus or heave a shot put. But she also never missed a meet. She hobbled from event to event and meet to meet cheer­ing for teammates. She said watching Belles All-American Stacy Davis, then a junior, fly down the track is one of her favorite memories of college. 
Her teammates noticed the freshman's dedication as well. 
"One of the juniors turned to me and said 'Thank you for coming, it has meant to much to us,"' Bergeman said. "But for me it was nothing. I loved watching my team compete. It was exciting and it mean so much to me." 
Her junior year was even more difficult for Bergeman. After ending the 1999 season with 24 athletes and high hopes for even greater improvement in 2000, the Belles instead found 
I 
themselves with just three ath­
I ,
i ' letes competing at the 2000 ' ' MIAA Championships. A combi­
: I nation of injuries, academics and frustration slowly whittled the team down to nearly noth­ing. Even the three captains left the team. Bergeman believes academics · 
were the main reason the squad 
lost so many athletes -and 
eventually the support of the 
athletic department and the 
administration. 
..Saint Mary's has always said 
that in the choice between acad­
emics and athletics, academics 
come first." she said. "Because 
so many athletes put academics 
first last year, they are punish­
ing us." 
Bergeman vowed to keep the 
team together this year. As· the 
sole senior captain, she wanted 
to help her team overcome aca­
demic pressures and compete in 
the MIAA Championships ­
even if they did fall on the week­
end before finals again. With a 
talented group of freshmen and 
several enthusiastic newcomers, 
Bergeman was prepared to 
rebuild the program for the 
future 
But when the administration 
pulled the funding from the 
team. her senior year suddenly 
changed. This year was no 
longer about building for the 
future. There was no future. 
Despite all her anger and sad­
ness, Bergman said she could 
not leave the program, could 
not walk away from something 
she had dedicated three years of 
her life to -even if it was on its 
deathbed. 
"We all said there is now way 
we were leaving now," she said. 
Bergeman's dedication seems 
to fill her teammates as well. 
Not a single player quit after 
Kachmarik's announcement. 
Some have battled back from 
past injuries, some are still 
struggling through injuries but 
they all have ·one goal -to 
compete at the MIAAs. 
"This year we've had so many girls coming out and sticking with it," said Laura Graf, who transferred to Saint Mary's from Augustana College this year. "We wanted to prove we have the girls who want to compete. We don't care what happened in the past. We are stronger this 
year." 
Graf is one of four athletes 
that coach Larry Szczechowski 
said chose Saint Mary's partly 
because of its track and field 
program. 
Laura is another. The fresh­man javelin thrower came to Saint Mary's hoping to compete in the heptathalon. But three stress fractures in her legs limit­ed her to competing only in field events. She would almost cer­tainly injury herself worse if she ran, and still runs a greater risk of injury in the throwing events. 
"I am not supposed to be doing anything right now," she said. "My parents aren't too happy. The trainer isn't too happy. But I have to compete in the conference. I feel like I would be letting my teammates down if I didn't try." 
There are plenty of other sto­ries of injured athletes pushing themselves to compete this year. Sophomore Whitney Ross missed her freshman season with an injuz:y but will compete be my last chance," Burket said. this year. Graf is probably the only ath­

Szczechowski thought Kemi lete with a chance to compete Adebamowo would miss the after this weekend. If she runs a entire season with a knee injury fast enough time in the 800, she but the freshman rehabilitated could qualify for the NCAA her knee and is ready to com-· Division III Championships. pete. Next year, when the track 
Other athletes will push them­team will be reduced to club selves further than they ever status at best, no matter how have before. fast she runs. she cannot qualify 
Junior Erica Burket has been for NCAAs. the workhorse for the Belles all "We are looking for good year. things from her and we think 
She has regularly competed in she can set a school record," four events and this weekend Szczechowski said. "But next will add the 4x400 relay to her year, there will be no where for repertoire. But with no chance her to go. She can't qualify. She for tomorrow, Burket does not can compete at meets but she care how tired she might get. won't get the recognition she 
"I know it will be tough the deserves." second day but I want to do Bergeman jokes that she everything I can to help the sticks with the team for the team because this will probably recognition. She claims she came back for a fourth year to claim the watch that four-year athletes receive. She cries when she talks about the end of the program and anger fills her voice when she talks about the future that will never be. 
If she were an underclass­man, she is not sure she would even come back to school next year. 
"I feel fortunate that I don't have to come back next year,"· the senior said. "I am so angry with the administration right now that I am not sure I would come back." 
But upon further reflection, Bergeman would still join the team. 
"But in reality, I am in it for the girls and for the love," she said. "This year has not been disappointing at all." 
From Start To Finish 
October/
Spring 2000 January 26 January 29 January 30 Spring 2001 May5
November 2000 
achmarik 
eighs options or balancing thletic budget nd moving 
1• rogram forward. 
Saint Mary's Saint Mary's president, administrators and Marilou Eldred, upon the announces the athletic staff begin recommendation of athletic decision to the discussing the director Lyn Kachmarik, MIAA, giving possible dissolution makes the decision to the necessary of the track team. discontinue the track one year notice. and field team fallowing  Kachmarik announces the· discontinuation of the track tea to the athletes.  Team members The Saint work to raise Mary's track funds and team awareness in an participates attempt to save in its last mee the team.  
the 2001 season.  








