Sacrificing more than time
Finding your place 
Friday
One MBA degree candidate juggled a two-hour and Notre Dame with The Observer's schedule of events. 
Keep tabs on Commencement activities at Saint Mary's 
commute and a falltily ofsix to earn his diploma from Notre Dame. 
MAY 18, 2001
Scene . page 22
News . page 2 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 134 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



Friday, May 18, 2001
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 


The ride of a lifetime 
I'm going to die. I'm going to die. 
We're all going to die. 
These are the thoughts that raced through my head atop a 200-ft. roller coaster a few days ago. 
I gripped the handlebars and braced myself for 


the 70 mileAtour plunge. Hair in my sweat-soaked face, my heart leapt into my throat. Finally, the big drop was behind me. 
Or so I thought. 
Just as my heart rate calmed, there came another loop, and another, and another. As soon as I real­ized that there were more I lessened my grip and let myself go. 
I swallowed hard and let my screams turn to laughter. I looked ahead to the drops and corkscrews in front of me, and smiled. 
Ironically, these are my feelings as I face the most dreaded two words any unemployed, loan­paying graduate encounters: real world. 
My outlook on the future changes from one minute to the next: it dips. turns, rises and plum­mets in a heartbeat. When friends and class­mates are going off to grad school or having fam­ilies I find it difficult to see myself in the world (the.greater world, of course, that exists outside South Bend). 
Mostly, it's difficult to imagine stepping off this four-year tilt-a-whirl we call Notre Dame. Am I ready for real responsibility, for these funny, real-world things called "benefits?" 
Yes, I am. Because I knew the ride had to end. I knew that one day the classes would finish, The Observer presses would stop and I would need to face the next daunting drop called adulthood. 
Throughout the years. the drops have become less scary. I have terrific friends taking the same freaky ride who have eased my stomach and calmed my nerves at every new twist. My friend­ship with them has taught me that no drop is so steep that I can't handle. . 
Nothing in life seems so big when a fly_girl, a hypochondriac, a rock star and a comedian face it together. 
I also know that though one ride is ending, there are hundreds of new rides ahead of me, urging me to get in and buckle up. And I won't die -not from a new ride, a new step in my life. 
I've learned to deal with my anxiety and antici­pation. All those crazy thoughts of "Chapter 11 in six months," or "What curtains would look nice in my cardboard box?" are normal and will fade away. This is, of course, what I tell myself and my family as I sit here jobless and waiting for every loan student's favorite department to hunt me down. 

I know that at the peak of each new plunge, I will look to my family and friends for inspiration. I'll look to my father for the shoulder to cry on, my mother to tell me to dry my eyes and find a job. And to my sister, of course, to make fun of the both of them. 
I'm sure I'll look to them this weekend, to pinch my arm and remind me of the a1:1azing ride I've just taken, and the ones that lie ahead. 
I'll grip my cap and smile in the face ofthe corkscrews. I'll embrace the twists and turns. Come on life, bring on the big drops. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Viewpoint 
Jason McFarley Pac McElwee 
Kate Nagcngast Scene Scott Brodfuehrer 
Amanda Greco 
Kiflin Turner 
Graphics
Sports 
Jose Cuellar 
Noah Amstadter 
Lab Tech 
Katie McVoy 
Lisa Velte 
Andrew Soukup 

The Observer {USPS ~99 2--4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Asrociaced Press. All rcproduc1ion rights a.re reserved. 
Christine Kraly 
Senior Staff Writer 

Events of the Weekend 
FRIDAY, MAY 18 

2•4p.m. 

QfiTul,EGE OF ARI'S AND LETTERS HONORS ~NVOCJUION 4 p.m. Washington Hall BACCALAUREATE ~SS 
··. ·--~ i 

Angela Athletic Facility " 
7:30 -10:30 p~m.
,--:-._.•;: 

)J a.m. SENIOR REGEP1JON 
{_ -~;~· . 

t ,, •·tfATION DANCE Century Center.,..•t:,, •·· ''fui~<?~nter -North Dome 


.,..,,.: 
MMISSIONING .· nter -South Dome 
>~SEND-OFF CEREMONY gion Hall 5-6:30p.m. COMMENCEMENT MASS Joyce Center-South'Dome 
.......... 

6;fl ~,8 p.m. ~ .. . ATION DINNER 
)o~~ejJenter and North Dining Hall 
SUNDAY, MAY 20 
9:45 and 11 :45 a.m. COMMENCEMENT LI~RGY Church of Loretto 

12:lS.p.m. ,,.. ,•. , . UTION OF BACHELOR AND MASTER 
"S 
'As 

Jd .. enter -North Dome. Guests may begin entering Gate 10. 

2,..,.'JJ'.hnt, 


2 ·~NCEMENT AND CONFERRING OF 
Jo~e Center -South Dome 



Higgins wins Laetare Medal 
By ALYSON TOMME 
News Writer 
Monsignor George Higgins can now include himself in the company of former President John F. Kennedy, social activist Sister Helen Prejean 
and Catholic Worker founder Dorothy Day. As the recipient of the University's Laetare Medal for the year 2001, Higgins has distin­

guished himself Higgins as a prominent and honorable American Catholic. 
"I look at the list of who's received it before -some I've known person­ally or by reputation -and they are very distinguished," he said. "It feels very humbling to be in the same cate­gory." 
The Laetare Medal, the oldest and most prestigious mark of distinction among Catholics, was awarded to Higgins for his work as a scholar, activist and labor priest within the Catholic Church of America. He will receive the medal on May 20th dur­ing the University's 156th Commencement proceedings. 
"The long career of George Higgins 




LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

AccuWeather•forecast for daytime conditions and hi h tern ratures 
,,-~ 

rQ,~-~q9Q (f ~ ~ 
Sl'!owers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sumy Pt. Cloudy CJoudy Viii A.aoc::Mttld ,.,._~r 
shows how an ardent embrace of Catholic doctrine intensifies the hunger and thirst for justice," said University President Father Edward Malloy. "We want to honor him for following Jesus, a carpenter's son. and heeding a vocation to serve his Lord in the workers ofthe world." 
Higgins' career began by se~ving the social action staff of the Nat1onal Catholic Welfare Conference (now the United States Catholic Conference), where he was appointed director in 1954. In 1979, the National Conference of Catholic Bishops selected Higgins as the secretary for special concerns. He subsequent!Y retired to teach theology at Catholic University. 
Organized labor has always_ ~een Higgins passion. \'\'hether participat­ing in rallies or speaking at interi:ia­tional meetings, he became a leadmg advocate of organized labor. 
His list of honors has been merely lengthened as the recent recipient of the Laetare Medal. He was awarded an honorary degree from Notre Dame, which was followed by a labor studies center named in his honor in 1993. 
He published a book entitled "Organized Labor and the Church: Reflections of a Labor Priest" and received the Presidential Medal of 
Freedom. 

NATIONAL WEATHER 

The AccuWaather«> forecast for noon.Friday, May 18. 
~ 
•• •e •

O 2001 AccuWfllher Inc. CDI..D WARM STA110NARY 
®,,_© High Low  D 5how•,.  . D Rein T••tonne  D Flu,..._.  D Snow  D Ice  Sunny  PL Cloudy  Cloudy  
AUanta Baltimore Boston Chicago Houston  86 71 68 71 86  64 54 53 50 68  Las Vegas Memphis MIiwaukee New York Philadelphia  93 84 68 65 72  70 59 48 52 55  Portland 61 Sacramento 86 St. Louis 80 Tampa 87 wash,ngtOI\, DC 87  44 53 62 69 69  

HOOL DIPLOMA CEREMONY Library Reflecting Pool 
ND, SMC award honorary degrees 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will award honorary degrees to distin­guished figures in a variety of fields this weekend. 
Notre Dame recipients include: President Bush; John Bahcall, dis­tinguished astrophysicist; Father Cyprian Davis, professor of church history at Saint Meinrad School of Theology; Marilou Eldred, president of Saint Mary's; Louis Gerstner, Jr., chairman of the board and chief executive officer of IBM; John Jordan II, founder of The Jordan Company and a Notre Dame trustee; William Kennedy, Pulitzer Prize­winning author; Archbishop Giuseppe Pittau, secretary of t~e Congregation for Catholic Education; Sara Martinez Tucker, president and chief executive offic~r of the National Hispanic Scholarship Fund; and Andrew Viterbi, cofounder of Qualcomm and now president of Viterbi Group, LLC. 
Saint Mary's recipients include: Brother Richard Gilman. president of Holy Cross College; Margaret McCarthy, an accomplished writer and lecturer for the college; and Ernestine Raclin, a leader in busi­ness, education and voluntary com­munity and social service activities at the local, state and national lev­els. 

Friday, May 18, 200 I The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Farewell to graduating seniors 

By KIFLIN TURNER 
Assistant News Editor 
In a few days, nearly 3,000 students will receive their diplomas and become alumni, no longer students of their respective schools. There will be more football games. basketball champi­onships and sub-zero temperatures for future classes. but for 2001 graduates this weekend's commencement marks the last and most monumental mile­stone of their time spent at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
"I think most importantly. I've grown up a lot over the last four years. I have a much stronger sense of myself, what's important to me, and what I want to do with my life." said Notre Dame senior Joe Napolitano. 
"I don't think I could say enough good things, actually. I loved it here, I've had a great time. I know that I've changed over the past four years -I have gained self confidence like no other -I feel like a totally different person than when I came here," said Saint Mary's senior Kelly Sterritt. 
For Notre Dame senior Katie Fitzpatrick. the beauty of the campus will be missed. 
"I think the coolest thing is running around campus and how beautiful it is," said Fitzpatrick. "I just think it's such a beautiful campus and I appreciate the time that they take to make it such a beautiful place." 
Just as the landscape continues to change throughout a student's four years at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's, so do the lives of each of those students with each passing day and year. Yet one thing continues to remain the same ­the realization that the four years spent in college will be one of the most influ­ential and momentous experiences of a lifetime. 
..My experience at Notre Dame has been a very good one. I wouldn't change it for the world. I've been through a lot of trying times and good times too ­and that comes with life," said Notre Dame senior Antione Tobias. The acad­emic experience has also been impor­tant in forming and completing the entire college experience for Saint Mary's former student body president. Crissie Renner. 
"The knowledge that I've gained from both my peers and the faculty here at Saint Mary's is something that I will carry with me for a long time because I have kind of grown in an environment that inspires me to grow in my knowl­edge each and every day," said Renner. 
The friends met in class, at a party, an SYR, or maybe just by walking around campus are all a part of what makes the experience a rich and unfad­able one. 
"The most important thing I've learned here are how important friend­ships are, especially considering the fact that we're not all from the same place -people are from all over the country and we really have to make huge efforts to show each other how much we care,.. said Notre Dame senior Meagan Burton. 
Blizzards. SYR gag gifts, parietals and complaints about gender-relations may find their way in each new class, but the unique place created by each stu­dent will have impressed itself on the school in a way that no other possibly could. 
"I've definitely enjoyed my experience here, despite any complaints I might have about it, I wouldn't want to change it at all," said John Dickas. 
Likewise, the University and the College will notably touch the lives of its students that will surpass both time and distance. "To me Notre Dame means family," said Notre Dame senior Kevin Cherry. "When else in your life are you going to make as many friends with closely knit relationships as you have here at Notre Dame?" 
Change is inevitable throughout the passage of time, and for students, four short years have brought with it evolu­tion. and discovery through exploration. To some, moving in as a freshman might have seemed as close as yester­day, but the person they once were then is a long cry from who they are today. 
"My Notre Dame experience has been a complete transition, it has been a cat­alyst. I came in one way, and left anoth­er way," said Notre Dame senior Patience McHenry. 
"I think for a lot of people, Notre 
Dame can force you to grow up rather quickly, and maybe for other people it might be really easy to not grow much at all over the four years," said Napolitano. 
And now, regardless of how much one has grown or changed, the 2001 gradu­ates are off to travel down their respec­tive paths in life, to embark on what it takes to survive in the real world. But wherever these paths lead, they have at one time or another converged at one common point. The place that was called home for four years served as more than just an academic experience in life. It teaches life-long educational lessons in friendships, responsibility and independence. 
Castle Point Select Units Available for Next Semester 
::..Within Minutes of Campus::• 
-Spacious one and two bedroon1 apartn1ents, sotne with lofts and dens. 
-Includes n1enibership in the new Castle Point Racquet Club and Fitness Center. 

Friday, May 18, 2001 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 

Madison, Bush to deliver Commencement speeches 
. LA TV president speaks at SMC 
Obse,ver Sta.If Report 
Paula Madison, president and general manager ·or KNBC-TV in Los Angeles, will deliver the Commencement address at 
S a i n t Mary's gradua­tion cere­mony. 
In addi­tion to her duties at KNBC-TV, 


Madison Madison also serves as the vice president of diversity for NBC, making her the first African­American woman to become a general manager at a net­work-owned station in a top­five market. 
"She is one of the few women in the position she has," College President Marilou Eldred said. "And as far as we can tell, she holds the highest rank of any minor­ity person in her field." 
An active volunteer in the national community, Eldred hopes Madison will be able to deliver a relevant address. 
"Each year we try to pick someone who is known to be a good speaker who will deliver a message that is relevant to the seniors," said Eldred. "We try to pick someone who will really provide a challenge to the class." 
• Bush is fifth president to speak to ND graduates 
By SAM DERHEIMER 
News Writer 
President George W. Bush 
will join the ranks of Dwight Eisenhower. Jimmy Carter. Ronald Reagan and his father, George Bush Sr., as he becomes the fifth American president to speak at a Notre Dame Commencement ceremony. 
Several Notre Dame alumni in Congress, including Tim Roemer who district includes Notre Dame, and National Security Advisor Condoleeza Rice, a former member of the Board of Trustees. recruited Bush as this year's primary Commencement speaker. 

The topics Bush will discuss in his speech have not yet been released. but Dennis Brown. associate director of Notre Dame Public Relations, said he is sure the speech will focus on the seniors. 
"For most seniors. this is the high point in their lives," Brown said. "We are extremely proud of them and their achieve­ments, and the University does its best to keep them at the forefront." 
Protesters object to decision to honor Bush 
By KERRY SMITH News Writer 
The administration's decision to invite President Bush to give the Commencement address and award him an honorary doctor 
of laws at Commence­ment has sparked controversy from within t h e University community. 

M a n Y Bush 
groups and 
individuals 
affiliated with Notre Dame have expressed concern that the invi­tation neglects the Catholic val­ues and traditions on which . the University is founded. Led by ·government professor Peter Walshe. a group of faculty, stu­dents and alumni created a peti­
tion and will hold a demonstra­tion outside the Joyce Center Sunday to protest the decision. 
"Does [University President 
Father Edward] Malloy really believe George W. Bush is a role model for the graduating class -someone worthy of an hon­orary degree?" Walshe said. "Commencement is a time to cel­ebrate the values of the University and President Bush is incapable of doing this." 
With 667 signatures, the peti­tion has been signed by 115 fac­ulty, 98 graduate students, 173 undergraduate students, 208 alumni, 22 staff members and 51 others. 
Walshe, who wrote the peti­tion, pinpointed the opposition to Bush, writing, "The policies of the Bush administration which will, inter alia, give a huge tax refund to the rich, cut by 86 percent programs that provide health care access for the unin­sured, abandon the environment -both nationally and globally -to the predatory drive for cor­porate profits. and promote another arms race with its Strategic Defense Initiative, con­tradict Notre Dame's mission as a Catholic university." 
Walshe thinks other issues need be addressed as well. 

·"Our petition objects to a range of policies being pursued by President Bush. But it lets the president off too lightly," Walshe said. "As an adamant supporter of capital punishment. he stands in fundamental opposition to the 
U.S. Catholic Bishops and Pope John Paul II ... The petition could also have drawn attention to President Bush's derisory con­tribution of $200 million for the international fund to counter the AIDS pandemic in Africa." 
Petition supporters will protest Sunday in two ways. Some will gather at Leeper Park in the morning and march to the Joyce Center, where they will hold a rally and hand out leaflets to those entering the graduation. 
The rally will include speeches on what protesters think are four contradictions between Catholic values and Bush's policies: labor, the environment, capital punish­ment and the military. 
Protestors attending gradua­tion will wear white armbands and/or white tape on their mor­tarboards signifying opposition to the administration's choice of a commencement speaker. 
According to Walshe, Malloy defended his administration's decision to honor Bush in a letter to a concerned alumnus 
"Malloy has written a perfunc­tory, less than thoughtful, four­sentence response to a long and carefully argued letter from an alumnus explaining why he con­sidered the invitation to President Bush to be totally inappropriate," Walshe said. "Malloy wrote 'In inviting President Bush, we honor the office he holds, rather than any particular policy choices he makes as our national leader.' Had Bush been pro-choice he would not have been invited. That he seriously disregards Catholic social teaching in a host of other policies has been ignored." 
Opposition to Bush does not stop at members of the Notre Dame community. Other protes­tors are expected, including members of the Indiana chapter of the American Atheist Organization. 
. CONGRATULATIONS TO THE 2001 OBSERVER SENIOR CLASS . 

MOLLY MCVOY KRIS DIANA CHRISTINE KRALY TIM LOGAN ANNE MARIE MATTINGLY COLLEEN MCCARTHY ERIN PIROUTEK FINN PRESSLY KATE STEER LIZ LANG BRIAN KESSLER TIM CASEY KATHLEEN O'BRIEN JOSE CUELLAR 
LILA HAUGHEY 
TIM LANE. MIKE GONVILLE MICHAEL MARCHAND BRITTANY MOREHOUSE SCOTT BLASZAK 
ERIN CONDON 
CHRIS AVILA CHAD MAESTAS TYLER WHATLEY COLLEEN BARRETT NIKKI RESTAINO 
ERICA THESING 
Thank you for your years ofdedication, friendship, and commitment to quality journalism. You will be missed. Best wishes for the future from the 2001-2002 stafl 

--~--.. ,._:-~ ·,-_ . ... .... ­
· . , -' 
..r1cr .&s • e, .;,­
.------------------------------------------·
·-­

FOUR 
EARS IN 
_VIEW 
Friday. May I 8. 200 l The top JO Observer news stories from the 1997-2001 academic years page 5 
I 

Fearing the loss of a unique identity as a university, the Notre Dame Board of Trustees voted against joining the Big Ten conference. 
"The Board of Trustees affirmed the recommendation of the Officers that Notre Dame should retain its institu­tional independence,,. said University president Father Edward Malloy. "The decision was complex. [It] transcends many individual factors. academic and athletic. The ultimate {rationale behind the decision] lies in a loss of institutional identity." 
If Notre Dame had joined the Big 



Trustees reject Big Ten membership 
February 8, 1999 
Ten it would have been one of only two private universities and the only member with a religious affiliation. 
"Notre Dame as a core identity: Catholic, private and independent. An association with the Big Ten would only involve one element of that identi­ty, independence," said Malloy. "In our deliberations about joining the Big Ten, there was never the concern for our Catholic character being dimin­ished." 
"Fiscal factors were not a decisive determinant in the decision," Malloy 
added. 


Bridget's closes 
SMC cancels

2 
after police raid 
3 'Monologues' 

College President
More than 165
~OBSERVER 

Marilou Eldred
patrons received 
informed the student 
citations for under­
organizers of "The
age drinking at 
Vagina Monologues" 
Bridget McGuire's 
that the play would
Filling Station when 
not make a reappear­
local and state excise 
ance on campus and
police raided the bar. 
subsequently spurred 
Police cited 
weeks of controversy. 
Bridget's for viola­
Students held a
tions of state liquor 
speak-out, staged a
laws and manage­
sit-in, and finally per­
ment voluntarily 
formed the play in the
closed the establish­
lobby ofRegina Hall.
ment. 
Feb. 2, 1998 
Jan. 22, 2001 
Provost Nathan Hatch pointed out that Notre Dame is in a position that other universities struggle to achieve. 
"Officers of other universities toss and turn at night, trying to figure out how to make their institution unique," said Hatch. 
The Board of Fellows, the highest decision-making body at the University who are also responsible for appoint­i:rig the Board of Trustees, decided against membership in the Big Ten Dec. 1, 1998. Their decision, however, was kept secret pending approval by the Board of Trustees. 
Kinder becomes
4 

first female Guard 

Student forum olfer& Jew foot ball Udall Mllutk,.,~ 
.. ,:;:~~==-~~ 
(;,,ll'Mt3M(~~!1~:.+t~4'-y,;,~ 
-,,.~,,.,,. -.:;.~··'":·~:;~~-:_~":::, 
~--·-. ~;~~~ 
-..­
--· 
N ..... 
:1..~~
;,.,.,..,. ......,..
~+:-­
~~!:­
.
)'\(_.,., 
ll.~ft,_111,.
*""• 
Molly Kinder, a 6­foot-3 senior, became the first female to join the prestigious group of 10 students since the beginning of the Irish Guard 51-years ago. 
Although she audi­tioned for the Guard and did not make the cut during the fall of her junior year, Kinder made the squad on her second try this fall. 
Sept. 2, 2001 

I ·=~~-_.,
-:::.--:-':a!::'::.•• 

·6l§E~R-,,;'. 


huh respond to NCAA aanctlona 

5 
NCAA sanctions 
ND for violations 
7 Garrick resigns to· protest gay policy Eld_red denies6 The Alliance 
!OBSERVER 
Garrick resigns, protests gay policy 

· The NCAA handed Notre Dame it's first ever major violation in connection with Kimberley Dunbar's gifts to a number of Irish football players. Dunbar's membership in the Quarterback Club made her official University representa­tive, said the NCAA. The University lost two scholarships and received a two-year probation. 
Jan. 19, 2000 

........~ , ~u.,. . ­
~~,·
at.ri~ 


President Marilou Eldred denied official club status to The Alliance of Lesbian, Bisexual, Straight and Questioning Women of Saint Mary's College after six months of delib­eration. 
Eldred claimed that other campus organizations were already meeting the proposed goals of The Alliance. 
Feb. 27, 1998 
Father David Garrick, assistant professor of commu­nications and theatre, resigned in protest of the University's approach to gay and lesbian students and faculty. 
Garrick said that, after coming out as a celibate homosexual in an April 1996 letter to The Observer, he was suspended from Basilica ministry. 
March I 9, 1998 



Honoring a life 

Hesburgh8 receives medal 
Master Plan10 building begins 

Saint Mary's offi­cials broke ground on the new Dalloway's Coffeehouse and Welcome Ceo ter. marking the begin­ning of a 10-year plan to develop and renovate the Saint Mary's campus. 
March 30, 2000 
, 

University offi­cials, Congressmen and former President Bill Clinton gathered in the U.S. capitol rotunda Julyl 3 to award the Congressional Gold Medal to Father Theodore Hesburgh, president emeritus of Notre Dame, for a lifetime of public service. 
Aug.23,2000 


Friday, May 18, 2001 

page 6 The Observer . THE YEAR IN REVIEW 
Irish lose to 'Huskers. SMC "Girl ofChoice." Assault policy changes. Lieberman visits. Bar busts. 


By KATE NAGENGAST 
Associate News Editor 
Sea of Red 
The joys and frustrations of this Notre Dame football sea­son began long before the team's crushing defeat at the Fiesta Bowl. The season's most anticipated game, when the Fighting Irish took on No. 1-ranked Nebraska Sept. 9, was played before a sea of red 
T-shirts  and  screaming  
'Huskers  -though the game  
actually  happened  in  the  

House that Rockne Built. 
Pre-game hype included ESPN's GameDay coverage from in front of Touchdown Jesus and a pep rally in the Stadium rather than the Joyce Center to accommodate fire­works and Dick Vitale's ener­gy. But because of thousands of tickets usually reserved for Notre Dame fans were sold to Nebraska fans, season ending injuries for defensive end Grant Irons and quarterback Arnaz Battle and an overtime, three-point loss to Nebraska, Irish fans returned home torn between feelings of pride in the team's talent and shame about the greed of Irish tickct­holders. 
SMC shirt cases controversy 
Saint Mary's junior class stirred controversy on both the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses this fall when its class T-shirt was printed with an imitation of the painting "II Bacio" on it. The painting on the shirt was altered to depict a young boy wearing a Notre Dame shirt kissing a girl in a shirt with the Saint Mary's French Cross while a girl in a Notre Dame shirt looks on. The text around.. the altered painting read, "SMC 2002 ... Girl of Choice." 
Saint Mary's Board of Governance prevented the sale of the T-shirt, citing potential repercussions it could have on gender relations between the College and the University. Although the junior class board held a forum to protest the decision, claiming it was censorship for BOG to stop their sales. BOG absorbed the $1,300 cost for the shirts' printing and the shirts were never distributed. 
Sex assault policy changed 
Prompted by years of con­cern about rape on campus, Notre Dame changed its sexu­al assault policy and appointed Ava Preacher, assistant dean of the College of Arts and Letters, official resource per­son for victims of campus rape. The policy changes included a du Lac revision that states, "student victims will not be subject to disciplinary action" in connection with alcohol or parietals violations related to sexual assault and the publication of two brochures. The University also established a committee to advise the University on issues and procedures pertaining to sexual assault. 
Busted Bars 
Going down in history with Bridget McGuire's and ICONN as busted student bars, Finnigan's and Bench­warmer's both experienced 





2000 . 

late night raids this year ­the Finnigan 's superstitious Oct. 13 bust resulted in 147 citations, while the Benchwarmer's Jan. 25 raid cited 18 students. 
Although neither Finnigan's nor Benchwarmer's lost their liquor licenses. the Notre Dame students present at Finnigan' s paid $100 fines to the University in addition to the $220 court fee and 40 hours of community service most of the students received as "minor in a tavern." A minor in a tavern charge is a Class C misdemeanor under Indiana State Law that can carry repercussions including fines up to $500, six months in jail or loss of a driver's license. 
Although Jeff Shoup, direc­tor of Residence Life, could not 

Saturday, Sept. 9 -Notre Dame football loses to Nebraska before a sea of red 

. ·<. ._ . bl_ .,._ ... ···~--::-:·:·-::-:-,··_ .-~·--: ~~!-,;,:··-~~-· --:~%:~~~­

{;~Y!i1~~~e~f/:A-, •. ,.. .~c,i,.J&X. r,onne Clary dies of le~kemia· 
Thursday, Oct. 12 -Finnigan's busted, Change to sexual assault policy 


r------------------------------·---·­
Friday, May 18, 200 I page 7
The Observer . THE YEAR IN REVIEW 
'Monologues' cancelled. ND loses Clary, Murphy. ND joins WRC Women, champs change history. 
I I 


. 2001 
comment specifically on the 
punishments for underage stu­
dents at Benchwarmer's he 
said the office typically consid­
ers previous cases of a similar 
nature when determining pun­
ishments. 
Saint Mary's students were 
only punished by state law, 
not the College. 
Lieberman visits campus 
During his travels as the 
Democratic vice-presidential 
candidate, Senator Joseph 
Lieberman spoke at 
Washington Hall before a 
somewhat hostile audience of 
Notre Dame community mem­
bers. 
His speech about America's moral uncertainty and the country's definitive need to return to faith and values in a public dialogue was interrupt­ed. by screams of "What about abortion?" from seminary can­didate Steve Sanchez. Sanchez and members of organizations like Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Right to Life, the Progressive Student Alliance and the United Muslim Associated also protested with signs, banners, pins and flyers outside the auditorium before and during his speech. 
Eldred bans "Monologues" 
College President Marilou Eldred informed the student organizers of "The Vagina Monologues" that the play would not make a reappear­ance on campus last January and subsequently spurred weeks of controversy. 
As part of a nationwide movement to increase discus­sion about female sexuality on college campuses, the "Monologues" were performed on Saint Mary's campus dur­ing February 2000 sponsored by the Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination (CARE). In 2001, however, administration declared there was no need to perform the play again. 
Upset by the sudden ban and the administration's unwilling­ness to explain their reasoning for the ban. students held a speak-out at Dalloway's on Jan. 24 and representatives from CARE met with Eldred on Jan. 31. When the administra­tion had not changed its posi­tion, nearly 40 students staged a sit-in outside the Office of the President in LeMans Hall and presented a petition with nearly 300 signatures support­ing the performance on Feb. 9. By the end of February the 
play was still forbidden as an 
organized event. Left without 
an alternative and unwilling to 
abandon the "Monologues" 
entirely. 20 women from the 
Saint Mary's academic com­
munity performed the play for 
more than 150 students, facul­
ty and community members in 
the lobby of Regina Hall Feb. 
19. 

This performance prompted 
Eldred to request a letters of 
apology to the Board of 
Trustees from individual mem­
bers of CARE who were· 
involved, though those partici­
pants who were not members 
of CARE never received such 
letters. CARE's four officers 
did send Eldred a letter, how­
ever, they interpreted apology 
not to mean a statement of 
regret, but instead as a 
defense of a position as the 
classical Greek definition sug­
gests. 
"The Vagina Monologues," 
written by Eve Ensler, are reg­
ularly performed off­
Broadway by a cast of promi­
nent actresses in New York 
City. 
Leukemia claims two students 
The Notre Dame Family lost two members of this year's junior class to leukemia -Brionne Clary Sept. 20 and Conor Murphy Jan. 31. 
Clary, an "enthusiastic" mechanical engineering stu­dent from Tyler, Texas and an active participant in interhall basketball, was re-diagnosed with the disease approximate­ly one week before the begin­ning of the fall semester after going into remission during high school. A memorial mass was held Nov. 21. 
After his condition inspired 610 people to join the National Marrow Donor Program in an on-campus drive during March 2000, Murphy developed pneumonia that compromised his immune system. Although the prayers of students who gathered in Zahm's chapel were not answered, Murphy is remembered by many students as a "fun-loving guy with a strong faith." 
An active participant in Campus Ministry and vice president of the College Democrats, Murphy's strength even inspired seven of his friends to shave their heads as a show of support during his chemotherapy treatment. Murphy's memory was hon­ored with a mass and a tree­planting ceremony March 22, the week of what would have been his 21st birthday. 
Women break barriers at ND 
Women made noticeable 
strides on Notre Dame's cam­
pus this year, both on to the 
football field in an Irish Guard's 
uniform and into the Office of 
the Student Body President. 
Molly Kinder, a 6-foot-3 
senior, became the first female 
to join the prestigious group of 
10 students since the beginning 
of the Irish Guard 51-years 
ago. Although she auditioned 
for the Guard and did not make 
the cut during the fall of her 
junior year, Kinder made the 
squad on her second try this 
fall. 
Likewise, Brooke Norton 
accepted a position no female 
before her had held -that of 
student body president. After 
finishing in the top two in the 
primary, Norton and her vice 
president Brian Moscona won 
56 percent of the votes to 
defeat Ryan Becker and Nikki 
McCord in the run-off election. 
Norton is also the first incum­
bent vice president to win the 
role of president since 1973. 
Although there were few neg­
ative public remarks about the 
success of these women, stu­
dent responses were over­
whelmingly supportive. 
ND joins the WRC 
After the largest campus 
demonstration Notre Dame had 
seen in more than two years 
occurred Feb. 22, University 
President Father Edward 
Malloy announced his decision 
to become the 74th school in 
the Workers Rights Consortium 
(WRC) March 7. 
Malloy's decision came after a year of anti-sweatshop cam­paigns by student activists. The University opted not to join the WRC last spring, but instead formed a task force that offered Malloy a confidential recom­mendation March 2. 
Notre Dame has previously turned down an invitation to join the WRC in April 2000. Saint Mary's had already joined the \VRC last April. 
National Champions 
The Irish women's basketball team and coach Muffet McGraw brought a national title to Notre Dame and received a greeting worthy of champions. 
More than 1,500 students waited on Notre Dame Avenue April 1 for the team bus to arrive from South Bend Airport after the team defeated Purdue 

Molly Kinder became the first female member In the Irish Guard this year. Above, she marches in the first home football game of the season versus Texas A&M Sept. 2. 
68-66 at the NCAA finals in St. Louis, Mo. 
This wasn't the only congrat­ulations the team received, however, as signs decorated residence halls, lights flashed at the Joyce Center and area businesses expressed their gratitude for the thrilling 34-2 season. 
Student Activities also spon­sored a pep rally March 8 after the team's banquet. Even the White House showed their pride in the team when President Bush honored the champions at an April 23 cere­mony in Washington. D.C. 
Graduating seniors Niele Ivey and Ruth Riley will play in the WNBA -Ivey for Indianapolis and Riley for Miami. Kelley Siemon hopes to play basket­ball in Europe after graduation. 
Tuesday, Jan. 22 -Saint Mary's cancels Wednesday, March 7 -ND joins the WRC "Vagina Monologues" 
Wednesday, Jan. 31 -Conor Murphy dies of leukemia 
• 

page 8 \ Friday, May 18, 2001
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Weir, Scheib to be honored as valedictorians 
. Weir credits faith, curiosity for success at ND 
By KATE NAGENGAST Associate News Editor 
Carolyn Weir said she doesn't pay much attention to grades ­but her curiosity, faith and fasci­nation with her majors helped her to 
achieve a 
3.95 grade point aver­age and the position as N o t r e Dame's 2001 vale­dictorian. 


Gradua-Weir ting with a double major in the Program of Liberal Studies (Pl.S) and theolo­gy. Weir will deliver the valedicto­ry address on "faith, hope and love" at Commencement May 20. where she will also serve as a flag bearer. 
"I would attribute a lot [of my success] to my faith. I don't think I could have dope a lot of it with­out the grace and wisdom of God,n said Weir. "[So the theme of my speech] is faith, hope and love and its coupling with the knowledge and skills that Notre Dame has given us to be actual­ized in leadership, and the responsibility we have to bring these gifts ... into the world." 
After graduation, Weir will

\ work as an education research associate in the Department of Education in Washington, D.C. ­a position she believes Notre Dame has prepared her for well. "I thought [my academic expe­rience] was very unique as a PLS and theology major [because ofl the way I learned and the way it fostered an outlook on education that I felt was different than any­where else, and really any other major," said Weir. "But the spiri­tuality at Notre Dame has been 
such an influence on my life as well, in particular my participa­tion in the Notre Dame Folk Choir." 
She participated in the Notre Dame Folk Choir for three years and acted as co-president of the choir this year -an experience she called "life changing." She also served as a resident assistant in Breen-Phillips during her senior year and worked on com­munity service initiatives at the Center for the Homeless, Logan Center, Martin Luther King Center and Little Flower Parish. 
Notre Dame, however, was not Weir's first college choice. She had planned to study music at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, Pa., but changed her mind during April of her senior year in high school. Having missed the application deadline for most colleges and universities, Weir spent her freshman year studying theology at Saint Vincent College in Latrobe, Pa. She trans­ferred to Notre Dame during her sophomore year because she desired a larger school with a more reputable program. When she arrived at Notre Dame, how­ever, Weir was attracted to PLS in addition to theology. 
"I was intrigued by PLS for the broad range of readings ... the way the classes were conducted in small setting where you really get to know your students and professors through discussion and you [as a student] have the 
' education in your hands," said Weir. Weir grew up in Greensburg, Pa., a town she describes as similar to South Bend. The oldest of three chil­dren, her parents, John and Nancy Weir, own and operate Scholastica Travel, Inc., a compa­ny focused on educational tours for students. She was also co-valedictorian at Greensburg Catholic High School -an honor she shared with Brian 0'Donoghue, her classmate in a class of 130 stu­dents and this year's student body president of Notre Dame. 

. Scheib has no regrets about SMC career 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE News Writer 

As a high school senior, Julia Scheib thought her college path would lead her straight down Notre Dame Avenue to the Golden Dome. 
With a rich family legacy tied to the University, she filled out an applica­tion to the college she had always 


wanted to Scheib attend. But when a rejection letter arrived in the straight-A student's mailbox, Scheib suddenly found herself blazing a path less traveled. 
Scheib had also sent in an appli­cation to the college across the streej, where she had fallen in love with what she saw. 
Four years later, the Saint Mary's valedictorian for the class of 2001 believes that things hap­pen for a reason -and has the evidence of a successful college career to back it up. 
"From the day I got to Saint Mary's, it's been no looking back," Scheib said. "God does things for reasons." 
But for Scheib, who will gradu­ate Saturday at the top of her class with a 3.98 GPA, the valedictory distinction shouldn't separate her from her classmates. She didn't even know she was in the running for the honor until she investigat­ed her class rank for her resume in October. 
However, hard work -and hard play -have always been priorities for the self-proclaimed perfectionist, who balanced the past four years as a secondary education and psychology double major. While managing teaching assignments at Penn High School and Clay Middle School, Scheib also composed her senior psychol­ogy comprehensive, a comparison of Sigmund Freud and William James• theories of religion. Still sneaking in time to contribute to Residence Hall Association, class boards, hall councils and Campus Ministry during her tenure at Saint Mary's, Scheib has learned the delicate art of time manage­ment. 
Scheib is awaiting word on a high school teaching position for the fall. While teaching may not be what she wants to pursue as a permanent career, she is consid­ering the possibility of eventually returning to school to work on a master's or Ph.D. 
'"I've always been a person who loves school," she said. "As a teacher you still get to study, because you have to learn the material to teach it. I don't want to teach kids just the basics." 
As far as providing guidance for her fellow classmates during her valedictory address Saturday. Scheib will stay away from giving advice, she said. The speech will be something that will reach out to each graduate in the class of 
2001. 

As she walks down the final stretch of the path she never thought she'd take, she knows she made the right choice. 
"I applied to Notre Dame my junior year, just to see if I could get in," Scheib said. "I just wanted to do that for myself. I got in, but I had no intentions of going there. I know I wasn't meant to go there ... I'm just very happy it happened that way." 
ND Valedictorian selection process: 
1. 
The registrar's office provides a list of the stu­dents with the highest grade point averages in each college -approxi­mately three students from each college. 

2. 
These candidates sub­mit recommendations from the dean of their college. a peer and a draft of a 3­minute speech. 

3. 
The valedictory selec­tion committee -which consists of four faculty members -discusses the drafts, anonymously ranks the candidates and invites two or three finalists before the committee for a final interview. · 

4. 
From these finalists the committee selects the vale­dictorian, and the second place candidate is asked to give the invocation. 


The committee looks for evidence of the candidates• 
· academic skills, their ability to write and present an engaging speech and the impa·ct they have had on the student or University community, slt.id assistant 
>provost JoyVann-Hamilton. · 
,.;:,~: . -,-·•...-,.-.-.-.' ...,, ,;.~~::•· !:?::'.:...· 
:·:::::::­
§MC Yaledi~torian seleci.!~n;'process;,. 
Candicl:tes are select:d . based solely upon the hfgh.. est grade point average in the graduating senior class, said Theresa. Marcy. vice president of academic affairs. 

Congratulations Class of 2001 ! 
Graduates: Are you moving to Cincinnati? 
Meet other alumni in the area by joining The Notre Dame Club of Cincinnati! 
* 
Happy Hours * Sports Teams 

* 
Pre-Season Pep Rally * Service Opportunities 

* 
Club Masses * Game Watches 


For more information, contact Melinda Sinclair at 513-861-3171 
or check out our website: www .alumni.nd.edu/~ndc_cinc 
Friday, May 18, 2001 page 9
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Construction winds down on 
Hayes-Healy-Hurley, Malloy Hall 
housed in the Computing Center stretching from the end of the 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER 
and Math Building (CCMB) since wing of the building to the 
News Writer 
it was built in 1962 before being _access road heading to 
moved to the Hayes-Healy LaFortune Student Center. The 
When this year's graduating Center this week. The new facili­addition is scheduled to include seniors first stepped on campus, ty provides more space and bet­five research laboratories and they bought their books in a ter facilities for the department. nine faculty offices and will not small cramped _bookstore at the "All of us are very happy with disrupt the current road struc­site of the Coleman-Morse cen­the move. You name it, we have ture. ter, were the first freshmen to it: better offices, better secre­An addition to the Hesburghlive in McGlinn and Welsh taries' offices, better seminar Center for International Studies 
Family Halls and the first male rooms and it's better lit. It's will also be constructed, begin­freshmen to live in Knott and much nicer looking," said Juan ning this summer. Siegfried Halls. The class was Migliore, director of undergrad­"It's predominantly office here through the renovation of uate studies for the math space at the southeast corner of the Main Building and South department. the building. We plan to have 19 
Dining Hall, the building of the In addition to better office private offices and three admin­Rolfs Sports Recreation Center facilities, there are classrooms in istra ti ve offices," said and the opening of the newly the building and more profes­Schellinger.renovated Notre Dame Stadium. sors will be able to teach in the Work on the housing complex 
When these new alumni same building as their office. for visiting professors is current­return to the Notre Dame and "First year classes are more ly behind schedule due to bad Saint Mary's campuses in a few likely to be here ... more profes­weather. The building, which years, even more transforma­sors will be teaching in this was scheduled to open this fall, tions will have taken place. building than in the CCMB," said should be ready for occupancy
Notre Dame's math depart­Migliore. by the beginning of the spring 
ment and international studies Work will continue this sum­semester. It is located across department completed their mer on the new Malloy Hall, from the Fischer Graduate move this week into the Hayes­which will house the Philosophy Residences Community Center Healy Center and Hurley Hall. and Theology buildings, with a and will contain 24 apartments. The international studies scheduled completion date of Construction will also take department was housed in the Aug.1. place this summer at Saint 
Main Building until its renova­"We are finishing up the inte­Mary's, with minor renovations tion four years ago, and then rior, the carpet and the ceilings to McCandless Hall. moved to Hurley Hall. and finishing up the electrical "Beginning this week, we will 
While Hurley was being reno­outlets. Sitework, like sidewalks be installing sprinklers through­vated for the past two years, the around the building and land­out the building and renovating department was housed in the scaping also must be completed. the hall directors room, the Security Building, but is now in a Hopefully the departments will chapel and the entry area," said more central location on cam­be able to move in right after Keith Dennis, Vice President for pus. The London Program, for­August 1," said Dianna Creech, Finance and Administration. merly housed in O'Shaughnessy the coordinator of the Malloy Dennis said construction at Hall, also moved to Hurley Hall. Hall construction. Dalloway's Coffeehouse is "sub­
"It will be very helpful to stu­This summer, work will begin stantially complete" and will be dents to have all the internation­on an extension of Stepan completed by commencement. al study programs in one loca­Chemistry Hall. According to "They have laid almost all of tion on the center of campus," Joseph Schellinger, director of the bricks, and it will be ready said Claudia Kselman, associate academic space management, for the receptions this weekend director of the international the expansion will be on the because some receptions in the studies department. north end of the building and clubhouse may spill out onto the 
The math department was will be a square addition, patio," said Dennis. 

THE NOTRE DAME CLUBS OF BOSTON AND WORCESTER CONGRATULATE THE CLASS OF 2001. 
If you're coming to the Boston area, send an e-mail to ndboston@yahoo.com to find out about upcoming events and plan on joining us for our annual "Schmooze Cruise" on Boston Harbor on June 21st. 
WE LOOK FORWARD TO MEETING YOU. 
Malloy dedicates Coleman-Morse center 

By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER News Writer 
In a spirit of thanksgiving for the generosity of donors and celebration for the diverse activities of Notre Dame stu­dents, University officials dedi­cated the Coleman-Morse cen­ter May 5. 
The day's activities began with a dedication mass at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. The celebration was presided over by University President Father Edward Malloy and was concelebrated by almost every Holy Cross priest at Notre Dame. Bishop John D'Arcy, Auxiliary Bishop Daniel Jenky and Auxiliary Bishop Emeritus Joseph Crowley, all from the diocese of Fort Wayne-South Bend, also attended the mass. 
Members of the Liturgical Choir, Folk Choir, Hand bell Choir and Women's Liturgical Choir provided music for the celebration. In attendance at the mass were family and friends of donors Tom Coleman and James and Leah Rae Morse, members of the Board of Trustees, University Officers and staff members from Academic Services for Student Athletes, Campus Ministry. the Center for Social Concerns and the First Year of Studies. 
Father Richard Warner, Director of Campus Ministry and one of the main forces behind the creation of the cen­ter, gave the homily, explaining how the center is "perhaps the most significant building on campus." Warner emphasized how students have made the building their own in the past weeks. 
"This beautiful building is so much more than bricks and concrete. It is a tribute to who we are and wish to be as a University community," said Warner. 
Immediately following the mass, Malloy dedicated the building itself, and then the two centers. He blessed the building and engaged the crowd in prayer, thanking the generous benefactors and the workers who gave great care in con­structing the building. 

• 
page 10 The Observer_ . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, May 18, 2001 

Dear Graduates: 
I would like to take this opportunity to extend my prayers and 
best wishes to the members of the Class of2001. I also want to express my gratitude for the rich contributions you have made to the University during your time here. 
For those ofyou who are graduating seniors, I hope that we have achieved our goal of providing you with an education that integrates the life of the mind with the life of the heart. May your commitment to your faith in God and to the service of God's people match your dedication to your chosen vocation ' and profession. We have high expectations ofour graduates. The tremendous contribution that our alumni make to society and to the Church is a testament to the importance ofthese high expectations. 
For those ofyou leaving with graduate and professional degrees, I hope that you will carry with you the best ofour traditions as they relate to your discipline. Ifyou bring to your chosen field a strong set ofethical convictions and a commitment to justice, you will represent the very best of Notre Dame. 
May Our Lady, Notre Dame, continue to watch over you in the years ahead. We are blessed to have you as members of the Notre Dame family. 

. " ~ \\,' 
!:'-.~~ -l.;a ,. I,., ,,_ 



Friday, May 18, 2001 page 11
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 




Notre Dame alumnus still missing in La Paz, Bolivia 
after investigating the disap­Peace Corps officials remain
By JASON McFARLEY 
pearance of a 1999 Notre Dame concerned about the disappear­
News Editor 
graduate and Peace Corps vol­ance of University alumnus unteer who has been missing for Walter Poirier and pledge to 
An FBI team has left Bolivia seven weeks. continue the investigation, 
Obse~ve~ Class ·of 2001 
~~ ®ailll fifJ~ W003 il<fill. 
~ ~ 
~~ 

~.f.: 
~ 
~ 
lioche/ 8 ~ "ndick Erin Burke Angela Chaput Rebecca Glatz Shannon Grady 

Tiana Checchia Adrienne Haynes Adrienne Shimmel Kimberly Spayd Katherine Rakowski Erin Weidner Aubree Dill Kelley SiemO!} 
Catherine Cook 
Wfi ,., ~ 
Kimberly Jackson 

. Farley Hall Lucia Gemma · ··:·, University of Notre Dame 
. 

.. -1 .. '-. -·--· . Erica Freeburg 
· · 

.. • : , _ 


~~a ©J1}} ~~ aa11~ ~li 
[;JOCl)~ll@ ~~ crfr lh@lfJ[f)JJOO~ 



NEWS BRIEFS 
Senior to make presentation at Cambridge: Saint Mary's senior Alyson Leatherman will spend her summer not only preparing for the work world, but also preparing a presen­tation for the Popular Culture Association International Conference at Cambridge in England. Leatherman will present her paper on the role of Osborne Liquor Company's advertising in southern Spain. The company's giant bulls have become more than just an effective ad campaign, according to Leatherman's paper, they are part of the cultural identity of many people in southern Spain. 
Provost Nathan Hatch gets reappoinbnent: Notre Dame's Board of Trustees has elected University Provost Nathan Hatch to a second five-year term in his current post. Hatch, provost since 1996, serves as the University's second­ranking administrator and chief academic officer. His reap­pointment follows the Trustees' review of recommendations from University President Father Edward Malloy and an elected faculty committee charged with conducting a formal review of Hatch's performance. 
For more information on these stories surfto The Observer online at Observer.nd.edu 
The Mi10lity El'lgiKSmlg Plogran Col1grat1llates 0lr Salion: 
Erwin Cena Matthew Colon Nicolas Creten Abraham Cruz Pedro Cuadra Kevin Dowdell 
Nicolas Fehring Carlos Garcia David Go Lokalia Hill Jabari Holloway Monica Sara Mata Alexander O'Bannon Nelson Rivera Camilo Rueda Christopher Sanabria Esteban Sanchez Michael ShoShone Justin Smith Mario Suarez George Viamontes Matthew Yung 
We Are Proud Of 
You!! 
according to a May· 11 state­ment released by the organiza­tion. 
..After two months of intensive investigation, and despite the best efforts of the U.S. embassy [in La Paz, Bolivia], the Bolivian police, Peace Corps search spe­cialists and the FBI, we still do _not know what has happened to Walter." officials said in the statement. 
Poirier disappeared on Feb. 22 in Bolivia's Zong Valley, where he worked on eco­tourism development projects. Poirier regularly traveled between La Paz and several vil­lages in the valley. 
"The FBI team reviewed all the investigative notes and evi­dence and conducted numerous interviews with residents of the Zongo Valley," the release said. "To date, the FBI has uncovered no credible evidence of foul play in his disappearance." 
Posters offering a reward for information leading to Poirier's whereabouts are being distrib­uted throughout Bolivia, and the 
U.S. embassy will continue to work with the Bolivian media to publicize the disappearance and reward, according to the release. 
The FBI's regional representa­tive will make monthly trips to 
Bolivia to review the case and 
an FBI emergency response 
team will be on standby to 
return to Bolivia should any new 
leads develop, the release said. 
About a month ago, two Notre 
Dame residence halls teamed to 
organize a fundraiser to benefit 
a South Bend agency and raise 
awareness about Poirier's case. 
The Dismas House fundraiser began in mid-April to collect proceeds for Dismas of Michiana, a local organization that reintroduces former offend­ers into society, and serve as a living prayer for Poirier. 
Keenan and Zahm hall resi­dents organized the campus­wide project, asking students to donate at least two dollars. Poirier is a former Zahm Hall president and Dismas staff member. 
Organizers hoped to raise $15,000 through the effort, said Father Gary Chamberland. Keenan Hall rector. By Wednesday. they had collected about $6,000, he said. 
"We originally hoped to raise $15,000, but maybe that wasn't realistic to expect," Chamberland said. "We also hoped that this project would raise awareness about Wally's situation, and I hope we did that." 

Friday, May 18, 2001 

page 12 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

all the lesbian, gay, bi and transgender graduates of 2001, and their graduating friends and supporters... 
. 








& Welcomes 
you, your family and friends into our strong and growing alumni organization. 
GALA-ND/SMC (Gay and Lesbian Alumni/ae of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College) is an educational non-profit m.em.bership organization with over 800 m.em.bers representing alumni, faculty, staff and families of the University and College. 
Our user-friendly organization has no official affiliation with-and receives no financial support fron1-the University of Notre Dam.e or Saint Mary's College. Our strength and support com.es fro111 our n1elllbership and our num.bers. 
To receive your -welcoming first-year membership packet 
and for inore inform.ation about our organization visit our web site at: http://galandsmc.org/ e-mail us at: galandsmc@aoLcom 
or write us at: GALA-ND/SMC RO. Box 257703 Chicago IL 60625 
f r ! 
I 


Friday, May 18, 2001 

The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 13 


Graduating seniors leave behind lasting contributions 
. NDToday.com Of course, the site was not always quite so sophisticated.

offers students 
"Andy and I were stuck in
valuable services• these boring summer comput­er jobs, and we kind of just came up with the idea for a
By SAM DERHEIMER 
place that [students] could 
News Writer 
check what was going on around campus. There was 
What began humbly as nothing like it at the time. And www.nd.edu/-fhelgese has it just kind of grew from that," become one of the most vital said Helgesen. "It was a web resources Notre Dame stu­page I wished existed." dents have to keep up to date With the primary features of on campus events. Originally a reverse student directory and created by 
student polls:graduating NDToday was 
seniors Frank launched in Helgesen and the fall of Andy Warzon, 1999. who were Word spread
later joined by quickly of the 
Nick Fellers. NDToday.com may be the most prominent contribution the Class of •01 has left to the Notre Dame community. 
NDToday claims over 4,500 registered students from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, and logs hundreds of hits a day. The site currently offers stu­dents features such as student polls, teacher evaluations, a reverse student directory, local weather, a book exchange, reviews, links to other Notre Dame sites and many other applications. In addition to this, NDToday sponsors a Bookstore Basketball team, promotes campus events and even provided in-depth cover­age on this year's student body presidential election. 
page and the features it offered students. and Helgesen said that before he knew it, the page had become a legitimate campus rage. Since then. the page has grown significantly, so much so that the three seniors found that they could no longer run the page on their own. Currently, the page employs a general manager, two sales representatives, a food critic and a photographer -all Notre Dame students. 
"We're extremely proud of what the page has become," said Helgesen...Especially the teacher evaluations. That is just something Notre Dame students deserve ... 
Helgesen said he is also very proud of the message boards on the page. "They give a voice to parts of Notre Dame that don't always have a voice," he said. "I'm really excited about the open dialogue that has been created by the page." 
As the three seniors gradu­ate, the exact future of NDToday remains unknown. But Helgesen said he wants the page to remain in the hands of the students. "Our current plan is to have Scott Palko, the gen­eral manager, continue to run the site. We would maintain ownership, but the actual con­trol of the page would remain with current students," Helgesen said. 
Other significant contribu­tions by the graduating class: 
. 
The Rector's Fund provides money to help disadvantaged students remain involved. 

. 
The Greatness Grant pro­vides money to assist individu­als in Catholic social missions. 

. 
Founder's Day is to become the new Irish Homecoming. 


The Class of '01 also saw a number of firsts and lasts: 
. Senior Mike Brown became the first ever African-American Leprechaun. 

. Senior Molly Kinder became · the first female Irish Guard. 
. 
The class witnessed the elec­tion of the first female student body president, Brooke Norton. 

. 
The class was the last to experience camping-out for football tickets. 


. Koelsch instills pride at SMC 

By MYRA McGRIFF 

News Writer 
Students see her painted face at 
almost all of Saint Mary's home 
athletic games. Behind the face 
paint and large bell adorning her 
head, though, lays a much larger 
message, the message of Belles 
Pride. 
Her name is Emily Koelsch and as early as her freshman year, Koelsch saw an opportunity to unite the campus with a sense of pride. When Saint Mary's identity as a college was questioned in a 1997 letter to the editor of The Observer that called the Saint Mary's student body parasites, Koelsch felt it was time to evalu­ate how much students had invested into their school. To improve the college's image, Koelsch tried to get students to focus on the great features of Saint Mary's. 
During her sophomore year, Koelsch worked to establish Saint Mary's Pride Day. With the help of SGA, the one-day event was able to encompass the entire student body. The student body met on the library green in the shape of a French Cross on Oct. 16, 1998­and an aerial photo was taken. The event solidified the fact that Saint Mary's students were proud to attend Saint Mary's and had a vested interest in their college. 
Continuing to test the limits of Saint Mary's pride, Koelsch 
worked with BOG and SGA to cre­
ate Pride Week. which she said is 
a time to get "excited" about Saint 
Mary's. With a host of academic, 
sport and spiritual events, Pride 
Week incorporated every aspect 
of campus. At the end of the 
week, Saint Mary's hosted a Notre 
Dame football pep rally. During 
that pep rally on Oct. 6, 1999, the 
new Saint Mary's mascot was 
unveiled. 
"I told [Notre Dame] we had a 
mascot, and we didn't, so I had to 
come up with one," said Koelsch. 
With help from graduating senior Cindy Traub, Koelsch came up with the icon that would be the Belle's mascot. An icon that she hopes will bring excitement to Saint Mary's student body for years to come. Accompanying the Belles' new mascot came a previ­ously unmatched intensity of shouts of "Go Belles!" Combining pride week, the mascot and the new cheer. Koelsch feels that the student body has achieved a new level of pride for Saint Mary's. 
"It gives Saint Mary's women a way to celebrate, it gives us an identity. It also brings the spirit of campus to the front." 
This spirit that has trickled down to the rising classes. With Koelsch graduating, her term as the Belles mascot is over, but three new women have already filled the position. Junior Annie Knish and freshmen Llnda Janke and Desiree Paulin will be the new painted faces at all of Saint Mary's home games, continuing the celebration of a Saint Mary's community.· 

Joseph Applewhite George Fackler Keith McLemore Michelle Putney Melissa Reilly 
Kelly J. Balok Nick Gibbons Amy Milcetich 
Jeff Riviera Kevin Campbell Michael Gunville Molly Niquette Edward Ryan Brittany Crawford Chris Hamilton Kelly O'Connell Margaret Sample 
Sharon Desautels Pamela Hillock Brian M. O'Connor 
Philip Stetz Paul Diamontopolis Jean (J.P.) LaBrucherie Katie O'Neill Benjamin R. Stiller Joshua Thompson 
Monica Diaz Michele Lagueux Thomas M. Owens , 
Leanna M. Thomas Jeffrey Dobosh Lisa Lam Autumn Palacz Christine Veliky James Drake Carrie Lenz Daniel Pellegrino 
Bridgette Wolf Carol D'Souza Loulan (Violet) Liu Maria L. Petrillo 
Frank Yan Erin Ennis Amy C. Mathews Lindsey Power Irina Zavliova 



Deloitte · Deloitte &Touche Consulting 

Friday, May 18, 200 I 

page 14 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
THE FOLLOWING EVENTS Alm lfAPPENING AT 
·. .·' -.· 


THE HAMMES NOTRE DAMEB0t>KSTORE: 
eaking 
with

Friday, May 18, from 3:00 p.m. to 5:00p..:m.~~ 
ity

Mary Catherine Hilkert, University of Notre Dame.· 
.r S' na and rhr 
e,1rhcrinr <!J ie

Professor, will be signing Speaking with Authori-ty. 
, , 1· Womett Today
\lot(CS ~ 

~!::~:?'es\;i:tu:=:~ ~:-~!::~n:elly ana).<):<>(. ·•· ::::••/·····••:1:•j 
l~M-ary-rC~athrreerin~eHn·. 






ll~Jfi 
signing. They vvill be discussing One More poignant and inspirational affirmation ofthe human sp1r1t. 
Saturday, May 19, from 12:30 p.m. to 2:30 Father Bill Miscamble, C.S.C. will be latest book, Keeping the Faith Making a .....,....
.,1',~r...,o'll'A';s,J. 
is a book that is a challenging but to young people~{-~~~ouraging their · 
..._,,'-J_._.11....Ac 
contrib1!itfll~bty . 
... •·•• ,:: c·</• ... ·.··· .·... ·• ' •••··. ·. .. . 
:_. : ·. . . 
::· · ..-_:_/·:-.:---· 
Saturday, May 19, from 12:30 p.m. to 2:30 p.oil, Ralph Mcinerny, University of Notre Dame Professor for over 40 years and author of a multitude of stmii'wl .:-~·:~-Triple Pursuit, a Father 
NOT 
¦ 
Friday, January 18, 2001 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 15 

Hall director, 4 rectors to leave Saint Mary's, Notre Dame 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER 
Nevvs Writer 
Students who return to Howard, Keough, LeMans, Lyons and Sorin halls next fall will find a new face greeting them in th~ir dorms as four rectors and one residence hall director will leave campus for new positions. 
Sister Kathleen Beatty is leav­ing Lyons Hall to be closer to her family, and will become a pas­toral associate at St. Catherine of Sienna parish in Oearwater. Fla. 
"I left home at age 18 and entered the Sisters of Saint 
Joseph and I haven't been close to home since then. It's not the place that I would want to live, but there is a family need for me to be close to home," said Beatty. 
During her 10-year term as · rectress of Lyons, Beatty also served as the advisor to Amnesty International and taught three 





Beatty Dougherty Doyle Seymore Scalzo
semesters of a University semi­
nar. In her new role as pastoral 
adult bible study," said Beatty. 
associate, she will work in a 
Beatty says her departure from
parish that serves 3,000 families. 
Notre Dame will be bittersweet. 
"It is an open-ended position, 
"It's going to be difficult. I have 
but som~ of the things that I will 
been connected with this
be doing are visiting people who 
University since 1979, but I have 
are shut-ins and conducting an 
to help my family. I will miss the 

\ 

HOMES FOR RENT 
2002 -2003 SCHOOL YEAR 
-DOMUS PROPERTIES HAS 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 9 &10 
BEDROOM HOUSES AVAILABLE -STUDENT NEIGHBORSHOODS -CLOSE TO CAMPUS -SECl.JRITY SYSTEMS PROVIDED -WELL MAINTANED HOMES -l\iAINTENANCE ST,1\FF ON CALL -WASHER AND DRYERS 
AVAILABLE FOR THE 2002-2003 SCHOOL YEAR LEASING NOW DOMUS PROPERTIES 
CONfACT KRAMER (219) 298-9673 OR (219) 234-2436 OR (219) 674~2571 
One 5-bd. house available for 2001-2002 year starting June 1st 
11'1 
=o 
0 
\!) 
..c. 'i-;; . 
C: 
0
·2 
:::, 
a. 
QJ 
<11 
"O 
C: 
11'1 
->­
ro 
"O 
.... 
QJ 
.c. 
ro 
"O 
<11 .?! 
0 
.c. 
-
~ C 
ro 
II') 
C 
ro 
V 
·c 
E 
0 "O 
(IJ 
II') 
ro 
i:::: 
QJ 
'iii for further information: 
0 discerning discipleship in the QJ dominican tradition 
C 
·;:: weekend retreat at
QJ 
.c. 
weber retreat and conference center 
(IJ 
-
u adrian dominican sisters' campus 
VI 
-1257 east siena heights drive adrian, michigan contact: nancy murray, op ADRIAN 517 2663533 voc@admc-op.org
DOMINICAN SISTERS ---------www.op.org/adrian 
students," said Beatty. 
Sean Seymore has served the 
men of Sorin Hall for the last four 
years -three as an assistant 
rector and this year as a rector. 
He is graduating Sunday with a 
PhD in chemistry and will be a 
professor of chemistry next year 
at Rose-Hulman Institute of 
Technology in Terre Haute, Ind. 
In addition to serving on the 
residence hall staff, Seymore has 
worked as a teaching assistant in 
the chemistry department and in 
course development. 
"It kept me busy, but it gives me a unique perspective on the University to work in both a resi­dence hall and in the classroom." said Seymore. 
Seymore lived in Sorin for four of his five years as a graduate student. but at Rose-Hulman he will not work in a residence hall. 
"I have lived in Sorin for four years, and have become some­what attached to the dorm. but life moves on... said Seymore. 
After serving as a hall director at LeMans Hall for two years, Sara Scalzo will be leaving Saint Mary's to become an assistant director of Student Llfe at Loyola University in Baltimore. Her new position will be similar to the one she fulfills here, but she will have more responsibilities, including supervising graduate students. 
"I have mixed emotions. I am excited for myself professionally, but I will miss the students and the relationships I've developed here over the last two years," said Scalzo. 
Father Tom Doyle has spent a 
GIVE YOURSELF AGREAT 
GRADUATION 
PRESENT: 
ANew York Apartment 

22 RIVER TERRACE 
total of 13 years at Notre Dame 
-five as Keough Hall rector. He 
will leave pursue an MBA at 
Harvard Business School. While 
studying at Harvard, he will 
serve in a Boston area parish. 
"I will primarily be pursuing 
my MBA and just assisting in a 
parish in the Boston area. 
Probably just by nature, I'll be 
involved in the business school 
commwtlty, but not in an official 
capacity," said Doyle. 
Although Doyle may eventually return to Notre Dame, that deci­sion must be made by the Congregation of the Holy Cross. 
"It was difficult but also beauti­ful. It was hard especially this year because usually you say 'I'll see you after the summer,' but this year it wasn't so certain. I am excited for them, and I am not worried about the future of the hall. but it is hard to leave," said Doyle. 
Howard Hall Rectress Sister Anne Dougherty. a Franciscan sister, is transferring to St. Bonnaventure University after being appointed vice president for university ministries, which entails overseeing the campus ministry department and social concerns center 
The offer took her by surprise, because this was her first year at Howard: her contract here was supposed to last three years. 
Although Dougherty loves Notre Dame, she said she is look­ing forward to the more intimate nature of St. Bonnaventure. 
Andrew Thagard contributed ta this report. 

ANew Rental In Battery Park With the Most 
• 
Surrounded by acres of recreation and the famous Hudson River Esplanade 

• 
Walk to Wall Street, SoHo & TriBeCa 

• 
24 hour Attended Lobby 

• 
Complimentary Fitness Center 

• 
Landscaped Sundeck 

• 
Converient to all Subways 


1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms from $2,430 
NO FEE • SHARES WELCOME 
Call 212.370.4141 or visit: 22riverterrace.com 
Rental Office Open Seven Days, 10AM-6PM 22 River Terrace at Warren Street 
....._ROCKROSE""
Q Check out our other Rockrose rental ....._ DEVELOPMENT CORP. =-= residences at rockrosenyc.com Developer • Owner • Manager 
,I.' ., .. ..,, 
page 16 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, May 18, 200 I 




_.,-----------------~-~--=----:-----~~-¦ 
page 17 
Friday, May 19, 2001
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Group files complaint against College 

dent of the college who related
• Saint Mary's 
that she had reported a rape to
accused of failing 
the institution, which they indicat­
to report rapes ed. would never 'be counted in the statistics since it was merely an alleged incident." This April 1996 
By MYRA McGRIFF 
rape was allegedly committed by a 
Saint Mary's Editor 
male musician from a foreign country visiting the campus as Security on Campus. Inc. (SOC). part of a cultural program. It was a non-profit watchdog organiza-reported to both campus and local lion. filed a_ complaint of with the police (St. Joseph County). The 
U.S. Department of Education college's 1999 security report (DOE), accusing the College of vio-{exhibit A attached) reports "O" lating federal laws pertaining to forcible rapes for 1996. the reporting and disclosure of With the help of both former and sexual assaults on campus. current Saint Mary's students. 
In the complaint filed May 8. SOC vice SOC alleges that Saint Mary's vio-president S. 
edge not having an up to date crime log procedure, he does reas­sure the college hopes to improve. He said after going to recent con­ferences on crime reporting he understands the college policy needs updating. 
"Yes we can do a better job ­we must make sure we are com­municating with the campus. "said Dennis. "We have the summer to find out how to educate the cam­pus." 
However even if Saint Mary's amends the current practices of crime reporting, Carter still wants the college to be reviewed. Although the com­plaint concerns 
lated the 1990 Clery Act which Daniel Carter "Yes we can do a better Saint Mary's. Carter requires schools to provide cam-compiled the hopes it will speak
job -we must make sure 
pus crime statistics and warnings information as a wake up call to 
we are communicating
of on-going threats to students. in the com-Notre Dame. 
The complaint alleges Saint plaint and with the campus. ·· "We hope this will Mary's failed to record at least two hopes it will lead to better sexual offenses in security reports, lead to an response and policy
Keith Dennis
failed to categorize crimes accu-on-site pro­change from Saint rately. failed to correctly identify gram review vice president of finance and Mary's and Notre crime locations and has both non• from DOE. administration Dame," said Carter. 
existent and incomplete policy Carter said statements. the proce-
According to the act, colleges dure is an audit of all Saint Mary's must include: the geographical actions in regard to crime report­locations of crimes, all required ing and procedure. Keith Dennis, crime categories, as well as adopt vice president of finance and the Campus Sexual Assault administration, said he hopes Victims Bill of Rights. Saint Mary's can correct its infrac-
SOC claims the alleged January tion before such action is taken. 1999 rape of Saint Mary's student Dennis, in reviewing the campus' Sarah Alter by a Notre Dame stu-compliance with the Cleary Act, dent was not "disclosed to stu-says Saint Mary's has not inten­dents through Saint Mary's official tionally falsified or with held published security report, or to the reports or statistics of crimes on 
U.S. Department of Education." campus. He explains missed data 
In its complaint. SOC also states to a clerical error. that an alleged April 1996 rape of "We are trying to understand another Saint Mary's student also how we are reporting,"said went unreported. Dennis. "The events were reported 
The complaint states, "During in the statistics but in the wrong the course of our investigation we year." were contacted by a former stu-'t Although Dennis does acknowl­
-------------~­
-----~ -y ----­
Some students see the complaint filed by SOC as a starting point. 
Alter. who was featured in a March Cosmopolitan article about campus rape, said Saint Mary's needs to establish concrete guide­lines on how women should report crimes and provide victims of sex• ual assault with lists of counseling services in and out side Saint Mary's community. 
"I think the complaint is the first step to make sure Saint Mary's is in compliance, which right now they are not. There is definitely more that can be done. I think CARE (Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination) is great, but Saint Mary's need staff that is trained to handle rape and assault cases," Alter said. 
Jefferson named in civil rape suit 

By JASON McFARLEY 
News Editor 
A 19-year-old Saint Mary's student recently filed a law­suit against Notre Dame foot• ball player Clifford Jefferson Jr., claiming he sexually assaulted her in March. 
The freshman alleges Jefferson raped her on March 21 at Saint Mary's. No criminal charges are pending against the senior corner­back. 
Contacted on Wednesday, Jefferson declined to com• ment on the civil suit. 
"I have no comment on that matter," he said. 
While he said his refusal to comment was at the advice of his attorney. Jefferson would not disclose his coun­sel's name. claiming that he was "between lawyers right now." 
On Wednesday, attorney Michael Anderson, who filed the suit in St. Joseph County Superior Court on behalf of the Saint Mary's student, did not return phone calls from The Observer. 
A representative at the lawyer's law firm, Anderson, Agostino & Keller. said the suit seeks damages for med­ical bills incurred by the woman as well as physical and emotional suffering. The student also seeks damages to discourage her alleged assailant from future sexual assaults. 
The representative said the woman met Jefferson at a 
downtown South Bend bar 
on the night of the alleged 
assault. She alleged Jefferson 
gave her a false name at the 
bar and later raped her on 
the Saint Mary's campus 
while she was passed out 
from the effects of alcohol. 
According to the represen­tative, there is little physical evidence because a local hos­pital did not complete a "rape kit" after the victims' friends took her to the hospi­tal following the alleged inci• dent. 
Jefferson has reportedly denied the rape charge and claimed that the sex was consensual, the representa­tive said. 
University students who engage in pre-marital sex are subject to serious disci­plinary action. 
According to page 126 of the 2000-2001 edition of du Lac, " ... the University believes that sexual union should occur only in mar­riage. Students found in vio­lation of this policy shall be subject to disciplinary sus­pension or permanent dis­missal." 
However, Jefferson said Wednesday that neither his status as a student nor as a football player has changed. 
Asked about procedure for handling lawsuits, Dennis Moore, Notre Dame director of public relations and infor­mation. said it is not the University's policy to inter­cede in cases in which it is not specifically involved as a party. 




I The Office of Student Affairs 
would like to congratulate the following graduates: 


Andrea Mechenbier, 
winner of the Collins Award 


Paul _Nebosky, 
winner of the Gardner A ward 


David Wyncott, 
winner of the Student Affairs Special Recognition A ward 
Thank you for your contributions to our com,nunity. Best wish<:s as you begin your journey beyond Notre Dame. 


O
THE 
BSERVER Friday, May 18, 2001 
page 18 
THE OBSERVER 
!Ml"""-'-•0""'1N....,...,~M,trt0-.,,Js.JIIIM,,,.,•, 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIBF
} 
Mike Connolly 
l 
i MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Bob Woods 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR 
Kerry Smith 
NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Pat McElwee SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amsradrer Sa.NE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARYS EDITOR: Myra McGriff 
PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLI..ER: Kevin Ryan 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Kacie McKenna 
CONTACT Us 
Omcr MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHLEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 
NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
Our day has come. my new dream be thwarted by such a this tinge of misery about seeing college 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu After four years of papers, tests, late silly fault. come to an end.
VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinc. l@nd.edu 
nights ofstudying, classes, meetings, A similar desire to end up here fueled What my mother told me about that SPORTS........................................................631-4543 
parties, and countless other activities my journey through freshman year sadnes~ so many years ago can also observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
unique to each of our own lives, we, the English in high school with the toughest apply to my feelings now as I approach SCENE...........................................................631-4540 
members of the teacher I've ever had (still) and through graduation from Notre Dame: Being observer .scene. l@nd.edu 
Class of 2001, have several weeks of late nights studying for unhappy to lose someone or something SAINT MARYs.............................................631-4324 
reached the end of my AP exams. Since I've been here, my means that you love it. Does anyone cry observer.smc. l@nd.edu 
the Notre Dame purpose has been to succeed academ­over the loss of a person to whom he is PHOTO........................................................631-8767 
road. The last chap­ically and personally -in essence, to indifferent? And similarly. would we feel SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINJSTRATORS ......... ........631-8839 
ter of our collegiate make my Notre Dame experience live up teary-eyed about graduation if college books has closed, to my expectations for it. had been a mediocre experience? Of 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
literally and figura­These things considered, I suppose it is course not. The fact ofthe matter is that Visit our Web site at http://obsmJer.nd.edu for daily 
tively. not altogether unreasonable to feel just a a great sense of loss for anyone or any­updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion 
As I reflect on this hint of sadness at the realization that it is thing always goes hand in hand with a columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news 
awareness, I can't time for me to leave this University. passion for that person or thing.
from the Associated Press. 
help but be at least which has been part of my dreams and I am beginning to rejoice in that little 
SURF TO~ 
somewhat unhappy. my reality for the past 13 years. No ache that I feel whenever I think about weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
You see, Notre longer can college life at Notre Dame be graduation, because it means that Notre minute forecasts 
weekly student revie'W'S 
Dame has been a something I excitedly anticipate or bliss­Dame has become the place that I've guiding force in my fully live. Throughout the past two always wanted it to be -a home that I




advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
life for almost as weeks, I have at every turn been painful­love and where I've had a wonderful
and rates of print ads cial campus coverage 
long as I can ly aware of my imminent departure -time. remember. my last class, my last final and, in all It's true that I'm sad to go because I
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
I decided I wanted to attend school in likelihood, the last time that all of The know my relationship to Notre Dame in August 1999 
articles published after to meet the editors and 
South Bend during my second campus Observer's most dedicated seniors will the future will never be the same as it visit -I was in the third grade at the be gathered in one room, ever. has been during my time as a student time. As my family walked around the When I was eight years old, my mother here. But graduation doesn't mean isola­
staff 

POLICIES 
reflecting pool near the Hesburgh found me crying one evening in my bed­tion from our lady's university {at least 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
library. I told my father of my newfound room as I reflected on the death of my not as long as there's fundraising to be 
published in print and online by the students of the 
ambition. He took this opportunity to great aunt. I cried and cried, lamenting done!), and I can take heart in knowing 
University of Notre Dame du Lac ~d Saint Mary's 
inform me that grades such as the ·c· I the fact that this woman (whom, inciden­that no matter where I go there will
College. Editorial content, indudingadvertisemencs, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither 
had received in handwriting on my last tally. I didn't even know very well) would always be other Domers, ready and will­institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
report card wouldn't cut it for admission never again be part of my earthly life. ing to relive their years here with me. advertisements based on content. 
to ND. Just as it seems that the last moments of After all, as Father Hesburgh told us The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
"If it comes down to you and somebody college are slipping by at a pace I am during our 'Before You Go' Tour, "This possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of 
else and you're equally good, they might powerless to slow, the finality of that sit­place is part of you and you are part of 
the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, 
look back to your last report card and uation made me feel frustrated and help­it. Yi>u can't get away from it if you try." 
Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. 
say, 'Gee, we better go with the other less. Imagine my surprise when my
Commentaries. letters and columns present the views 
guy,"' he told me. I went back to mother advised me that it was good to Anne Marie Mattingly is graduating
of the authors and not necessarily those of The 
Cincinnati resolved to improve my pen­feel unhappy about my loss. from Notre Dame with a degree in 
Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
manship, soberly believing that poor It doesn't seem like a logical thing to biology. She served as News Editor of expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
grades in such an academically-indica­say, butjust as it was good that I was The Observer last year and owes her Leners to the Editor must be signed and must include 
tive subject as handwriting could threat­upset about the death of my great aunt. great college experience to God, her contact information. 
en my chances to study under the Golden it is wonderful that I, and probably · parents. her fellow Observerites. the Questions regarding Observer policieI should bt dirtd· 
Dome and feeling determined not to let everytme who graduates with me, feel McGlinn girls and Flat 7. 
td to Editor in Chief Milu Connolly. 


DILBERT 
.. 
.5 
WITH YOU 
i•
..
IT'S EASY. 
., i "... •
..
\ ----1; 
...• 
'It 
! i: 
::> 
SCOTT ADAMS 
I DISCOVERED THAT I CAN WRITE CODE IN MY HEAD LJHILE YOU COMPLAIN ABOUT YOUR JOB ALL NIGHT . 
) 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Change is the law oflife. And those who look only to the past or the present are certain to miss the future... 
John F. Kennedy president 
\ 


THE 
Friday, May 18, 2001 OBSERVER page 19 
What have we 
learned? 
I've spent a lot of time thinking about what I was going to write 
here. Many of the compositions that wind up on these pages are long­
winded but very poetic speeches about what Notre Dame means and 
how we can take it with us as we march into the real world. But I'm 
terrible at that kind of writing, so I'll spare you. 
Another format is the "Survival Guide for 
Underclassmen" about how to endure the rig­
ors of scholarship in one's final year. But hav­
ing me give lessons like that would be like 
Gandhi coaching Bengal Bouts -just plain 
wrong. As I write, I'm swirling in an insomnia­
laden hell brought about by equal parts over­
work, procrastination and just plain old dumb 
luck. 
So as I devoted more and more thought to 
how I can boil down years of learning into 
roughly 800 words, it suddenly occurred to me 
that most of the things I've learned here have 
not been in classrooms. Who woulda thunk it, 
those boring old catchphrases at Freshman 
Orientation turned out to be true. So, these are 
the lessons I've learned at Notre Dame that, at 
least in my mind, will stand out more in the 
future than anything I might have perused in some dusty textbook. 
I learned from my professors that the only way to excellence is by 
setting the bar high and then working your ass off towards those 
goals. And every time I thought I had this maxim good and drilled 
into my head, I'd watch as the bar would get set even higher the next 
week. 
The women's basketball team showed that there is no joy more 
sublime than accomplishing those lofty goals after putting in the 
maximum effort. They also destroyed the stereotype that female ath­
letes can't be beautiful. but I could write several columns on that 
alone. 
Scott Delgadillo, the inspirational 14-year old who spoke at the 
Purdue pep rally and passed away in January, taught me that there 
is no such thing as a dream that's too big. 
Those that ran "In Tribute Of Their Race" proved that the Notre 
Dame "family" is alive and well, thank you very much. We are ND. 
Mike Brown and Molly Kinder taught me that there is a difference 
between breaking tradition and remaking tradition. I must admit that 
I was skeptical when I first heard that for the first time the famous 
Notre Dame leprechaun would be an African-American -I won­
dered whether or not it would "look right." But when he started 
opening up a can on the poor Kansas Jayhawk mascot in his first 
football game, I knew he was something special. His spirited, border­
ing-on-maniacal cheering will forever make him the standard by 
which I rate future leprechauns. As for Ms. Kinder, the highest com­
pliment I can pay her is that when with the Irish Guard en masse, I 
couldn't tell her apart from the rest of them. And she's also not a 
half-bad restaurant critic. 
Glenn Earl taught me that when the rules in a certain situation are stupid, don't follow them. He was supposed to be the man who guarded against fake field goals, but since he knew there was no chance in hell the Air Force Academy would run one with the game on the line, he went for the block instead. Make no mistake, the Four Horsemen, Knute Rockne, George Gipp, Rudy, Touchdown Jesus and the Hand of God had nothing to do with sending that ball skittering to the turf. It was Glenn Earl and smart football. 
The rest of the team taught me to always thank the people who support you. This was a valuable lesson, as it served as an antidote to one that a few thousand alumni had tried to give me by deciding to cash in their pride and watch the Nebraska game from their RVs. 
The raid at Finnigan's taught me to be more careful. 
The Notre Dame Security/Police gave me a couple schoolin's on humility, condensed into little yellow tickets. Their patience and understanding in dealing with me and those little yellow tickets taught me that yes, they are a force for good in the world and that no, they are not glorified rent-a-cops whose sole reason for existence is to aggravate students. 
Sarah Alter taught me that everything is not always peaches and cream and that people can get mighty mad if you say so. 
Finally, Dan Cichalski taught me that people you don't even know can change your life. Dan wrote a column in this very paper in Feb. 1998 that basically advocated letting President Clinton off the hook for the Lewinsky scandal, which was then only in its infancy. A 17­year old freshman whippersnapper from Holy Cross found his logic so convoluted that he rifled off a letter in response. With lessons learned from Mary Beth Ellis and Spencer Stefko, who taught that one can be both intelligent and hilarious, that young punk is nearing the completion of his 25th column. 
And what a long, strange trip it's been. Who woulda thunk it? 
Despite his use of"woulda, ., "thunk," and "schoolin ·s, .. Mike Marchand will be graduating in August, God-willing. with a B.A. in English. He's yet to make any concrete post-graduation plans, but he's sure he'll think ofsomething. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

' 
. 
····-•-•· 
Four years' 
•
progression remembered 
7-5 Natural Light Freshman 0. Biochem Bridget's Random hookup at freshman party Life-long friendships Brag about constant sex 
9-2 
Coors Sophomore Sibs Premed Turtle Creek Meaningful relationship Intellectual stimulation Brag about constant sex 
5-7 Newcastle 
JPW 
Environmental Science Corby's Promise ring at the Grotto Spiritual balance and a personal altruism Brag about constant sex 
9-3 
Pure grain alcohol Graduation Anthropology Debartolo Random hookup at freshman party $45,000 per year and a fat signing bonus Admit virginity 
Scott Blaszak. the author, is a graduating Viewpoint columnist. 
The views expressed here are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Living for 
the moment 
I spent last spring at an English univer­
sity in London. Yes, it was fantastic, blah, 
blah -but that's not the point. 
I felt like I had graduated, minus the "Pomp & Circumstance" (literally). No surveys filled out or silly hats. Few tearful good-byes. Away from most things related to the Golden Dome, I had a taste of the real world. 
In the fall, it was as if I was blessed with a bonus year to come back and do all the things I really wanted to do. I promised myself that I would do what I felt would make me happiest -right then. Even if that was watching a movie with that person I know from psychology class instead of trekking to Coach's, or going out instead of making that club meeting. 
Now that my graduation is truly here, I find that I don't regret a thing. Not even napping, walking around the lakes, hav­ing late night laughing sessions when I should be studying, cartwheeling on the quad, attending other people's lectures, chatting about how amazing God is, fol­lowing my passion for ice cream, making friends with freshmen, wearing a flower behind my ear or telling that girl I've never officially met that I've always thought she has beautiful hair. 
These things make me happy, and I think I might keep this philosophy indefi­nitely. 
Nicole Rodgers 
semor off-campus May 4, 2001 
Chastise Bush for policies 
Mr. Bush has never used the power of govern­ment for the protection of the poor. 
His tax plan is a colossal wealth redistribution from the poor to the top 1 percent. In the areas of bankruptcy law, health care, food and water safety and repetitive-motion injuries Bush has removed vital hard-won protections for low-and middle-income Americans. 
He opposes affirmative action for those disadvantaged by decades of state­sponsored racism but offers no alter­native. 
There is no evidence that he ever fought for civil rights or women's rights; except for vague bromides during last year's campaign, he still refuses to face these issues. 
Bush badly damaged our elec­toral system when last fall he went to court to toss out tens of thou­sands of legally valid, unambiguous­ly marked ballots in Florida. Complicit in this disenfranchisement were the governor of Florida, who is also Bush's younger brother, Florida's chief elections officer, who was also his state campaign chair, and several Supreme Courtjustices appointed by his father. 
As Texas governor Mr. Bush refused to inter­vene in death penalty cases, turning a blind eye to substantiated reports of prosecutorial malfea­sance. defense incompetence.judicial corruption and wrongful convictions. Days before her exe­cution he even mocked Karla Faye Tucker's pleas for a commutation to life behind bars. 
Bush's personal life reveals a pattern of responsibility avoidance coupled with schemes for personal advancement by currying favor with powerful family members and friends. 
Despite high school grades so wretched that counselors doubted he could be admitted into a good college, Yale accepted him because his 
father went there. His father also pulled strings to enable him to avoid the Vietnam War, serving instead in the Texas Air National Guard. He enjoyed an extend­ed adolescence of drinking and party­
ing that lasted until his 40s, including an arrest for vandalism at Yale and at least one later arrest for drunken 
~q, driving. 
O When he sold his house upon elec­tion as Texas governor, it was revealed that his housing covenant 
forbade sale to any person of color; he has yet to publicly rebuke this pro­vision. I urge all speakers at the '01 convo­cation to chastise Mr. Bush for his dis­graceful conduct during the Florida 
recount, to hold him accountable for the lofty campaign rhetoric he used to cajole voters and to challenge this year's graduates to hold themselves to higher personal standards than the ones he holds for himself. 
Richard Flint 
Naperville, Ill. class of '84 May 4, 2001 

. 

r\J.HE 
page 20 vnSERVER Friday, May 18, 200 I 
Sharing memories, and building your own 
Ten and a half years ago, I was intro­me, hoping I would come to understand And my understanding ofit grew deep­football game as a student. There are less duced to a place. it. I began to. er. I walked around the lakes on a clear tangible experiences that we have all 
It was October of 1990. I was 12. Notre The years went by. I came out to a few night. I discussed spirituality in class­shared. too: that inexplicable spirit which Dame was No. 1 in the country and my more games. I heard a few more stories, rooms. I learned from the upperclassmen pervades our student body. the bonds that dad was taking me to see the Irish play and my understanding grew a little. in my section 1V lounge. I did all the little form in our unique dorm life. Stanford. Maybe there was more than just football things that you don't see when you come These are the things that generations of 
It was the first time that went on at this Notre Dame place. to visit this school on a football weekend, Notre Dame students share, the common I had ever been to When it came time to start thinking but that make it an incredible place. threads holding each class together even Notre Dame. and I about college, I thought about Notre As four years flew by. I did more of as each class, and each person, forms didn't really have Dame. these little things, and the guys I lived their own experiences. I could call it the much conception of it I knew it was a good school, but it was with and ate with in September of fresh­true meaning of the "Notre Dame as a place. I knew it a long way from my mostly-Jewish high man year have are the same guys I live Family," but that's probably too cliched; it was where my dad school in Boston where, to a lot of people, with and eat with today. Much as my dad is just what makes Notre Dame the had gone to college, Notre Dame meant little more than a fo'ot­talks about Kevin and Jones and Keams unique place it is. but really all those ball team that BC beat a couple of times. -the lifelong friends who are a part of Ten and a halfyears ago. on a perfect two French words But those people just didn't get it. his memories here -I have my own. October afternoon. my dad tried to impart meant to me was the By then, I knew Notre Dame was differ­Along the way I picked up a bunch of to me an understanding ofthis place we football team I ent, a special place, and after some hem­my own Notre Dame memories: late have all come to call home. watched every ming and hawing I decided to come here. nights at The Observer, Fridays that end Now. after a set ofNotre Dame experi­
Senior Staff
Saturday in the fall. My dad was thrilled. His son would be at the 'Backer. the Michigan game sopho­ences that were quite different, but also
Writer
We got here on joining the Notre Dame family, and he more year and way too many other things quite similar, from his, I think I've got it. Friday and spent the had an excuse to come to more football to list here. afternoon walking games. I, on the other hand, was a little But there are also memories that I Tim Logan is a former News Editor of around campus. We saw the Dome, the more nervous. share with my dad. who graduated 34 The Observer. He would like to thank his Library, the Grotto, the Bookstore. My But things worked out fine. After all the years ago this weekend. These are the dadfor introducing him to this wonderful dad told me stories of his days here back hubbub of Freshman Orientation and the memories that each ofus share with place. and his mom for always encourag­in the mid-'60s, back when Ara was first few weeks ofschool, I settled into life nearly everyone who has ever graduated ing him to get here. coach and there weren't any women at Notre Dame. This place became much from this University: the way the sun The views expressed in this column are around to keep things under control. He more than just a football team to watch reflects off the Dome on a nice day. trips those ofthe author and not necessarily shared his memories of this place with on Saturdays; it became a home. to the Grotto on a quiet night, our first those ofThe Observer. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Welcome Bush's visit without protest 
Allow visit to open real dialogue 
I should clarify only that while I regard myself as fairly liberal, I do not personally belong to a political "party." I find the two-party system when followed absolutely to be frequently destructive. polarizing issues that should not be polarized at all. Having said that, I want to explain why I am not willing to sign the letter circulating among us for signatures to protest President George W. Bush's giving our Commencement address and receiving an honorary degree. 
First, I am not "angered" by Father Malloy's inviting George W. Bush here. I personally feel honored for our community that he is willing to spend time among us, for it gives us an opportuni­ty for possible dialogue. We should remember as well that 30 years ago, a protestant president's accepting such an invitation from a Catholic uni­versity would have been considered outrageously liberal on his part. 
I am staggered by the second sentence ofthe circulating letter that assumes the president's ini­tiatives promote only the rich and damage the poor and national and global environment due to his alignment with "the predatory drive for corpo­rate profits," as well his promoting "another arms race" -all ofwhich are said to be "contradictory to Notre Dame's mission as a Catholic university." 
As an occasional teacher of writing and of ethi­cal rhetorical moves, I find the generalizations of that sentence boggling. We can't, at this point, unilaterally mount such statistics against President Bush, nor do I think he is someone com­mitted to "predatory drives" on anyone's part. Perhaps I am mistaken. 
I do agree we need to talk with President Bush about our concerns for the environment -really talk and ask to be heard. Certain decisions he has recently made do alarm me -however. it was Ointon and not Bush who refused to sign the international ban against land mines (to give but one example). And in fact, our country's polluting emissions have gone up by 15 percent over the last 10 years. 
In this regard, I would be happy to talk with either leader, whether Democratic or Republican, to express our collected concerns precisely as a Catholic university supposedly caring in a Catholic fashion for the entire would. 
Furthermore, while I do disagree with President Bush's decision to increase our military arsenal, this is a subject we should discuss seriously rather than dismissing him out ofhand. At the very least. we should consider what it means that this uni­versity is one ofthe largest ROTC training univer­sities in the country and the odd (to my mind) tra­dition ofCatholicism opposing "conscientious objection" in a serious and not naive way. Obviously, military planning is not a contradiction to Notre Dame as it currently stands. 
I also do not agree that Malloy's invitation "demeans Notre Dame" because his "administra­tions pursues its ruthless agenda" after a "deceit­ful campaign." While I cannot predict the future, I see no evidence ofsuch blatant malice on Bush's part. In fact, the rhetoric of that sentence seems to have its own "ruthless agenda," and is full of reductive generalities that would normally strike the authors ofthis letter as being close to propa­ganda itself. 
However, I do agree that Father Malloy and the administration should consult with faculty, staff and students for future invitations. 
In the meantime, we have other problems closer to home we should be discussing with our own president of the University. such as low cultural diversity. small numbers offemale professors and suspicions ofsalary inequalities. 
Why aren't we discussing our own environmen­tal damage as we continue constructing increas­ingly large and energy-consuming buildings? Why. as a Catholic community, do we maintain a distance from the town around us? Why are we not willing to offer a degree in education, when education was a commitment to our "founding fathers?" Why the inequity between rules enforced (or ignored) for men's and women's dorms? Why do our students frequently feel they are regressing socially here, even as they progress intellectually? 
I could go on, but it seems to me we have seri­ous concerns we really should be discussing with both ofour presidents rather than dismissing out of hand President Bush's coming here at the beginning ofthis new millennium. 
Jacqueline Vaught Brogan 
professor ofEnglish April 30, 2001 
Address honors school 
I was astonished to hear that some people connected with the University were against the President of the United States speaking here. Silly me. I thought it was an honor and signified the current national eminence ofour school. But I guess I was wrong. 
What has disturbed me the most is that the people spearheading the petition to not allow Bush to speak at graduation are faculty and graduate students. And once again I guess I am being silly, because all this time I thought graduation was something for graduating seniors. Don't get me wrong, I have great respect for the graduate students and the faculty here, but the ceremony is not for them. 
We all have the chance of a lifetime to be at a commencement speech given by the leader of the free world. No matter what your opinion of him or his policies might be, give him the respect due to him. I am sure Mr. Bush received many letters from Congressmen from many Universities urging him to go to their almimater. But he chose Notre Dame. I say for once just be thankful of what we have here. 
Matt Friedman 
freshman 
O'Neill Hall 
May I, 2001 
Call for respect 
I have a real problem with the protest surrounding the decision to have President Bush as our commencement speaker. 
A few faculty members wrote a petition that can be found on-line. The final line ofthe petition reads 
. "We insist that all future invita­tions to address our Commencement Exercises be determined in consultation with the faculty of Notre Dame." I guess commencement is all about and for the faculty of the University. Never mind that a vast majority of the graduating students are excit­ed and thrilled at the prospect of the president coming to give a commencement address. 
I would also like to take this opportwiity to ask that no one make an active protest during graduation weekend. Just let it go. Instead ofembarrassing your­selves in front ofall the families and friends ofthe students who are celebrating the cuhnination of a lot ofhard work and sacrifice, respectfully cheer for these gradu­ating students and respectfully ignore President Bush. There is a time and a place for everything. 
T.J. Vanderbeek 
seruor May 2, 2001 
\ 


~HE
Friday, May 18, 200 I vnSERVER page 21 

Thank you 
for coming 
to my party 
The last four years have been ... an experi­
ence. I would not give back any moment, 
good or bad, as they have all helped in culti­
vating me into the woman I am, the woman I 
am about to become and the woman I will be 
in the future. I may leave 
Saint Mary's College, but 
Saint Mary's College will 
never leave me. 
Thank you to my par• 
ents. Simple enough ­
you gave me life, and in 
that life, I was fortunate 
to have three wonderful 
sisters, both of you, an 
overall loving, supportive 
and nutty family and 
eventually, the signature 
on the check written out 
to Saint Mary's College. 
Excuse me -can some­
one please help me out 
here? These two people 
have just signed their last check -after 16 
years of this, rm not sure if they can stand 
the no-college-tuition-payment-withdrawal. 
Thank you to my girls of Saint Mary's. 
Rather, you are not girls but ladies, in the 
truest sense of the word, each and every one 
of you. There are too many of you to name, to 
go through individually and remark on all of 
your wonderful talents and abilities. your 
humor and your love. If you do not know how 
much I love you and cherish you all, and look 
forward to where and what our lives will 
bring us after college, then I apologize, but 
know that you are and always will be in my 
heart as the number one reason Saint Mary's 
was where I was supposed to be. I am a bet­
ter person for knowing you, whether it has 
been since freshman or senior year or some­
where in between. 
Thank you to my English professors over the years. I am not going to lie to you, overall there is a love/hate relationship with the department: I love the fact that you know me so well and have pushed me to become the writer that I am, and I hate the fact that in doing so, I have had to admit that I was wrong at some points. God, you guys are good. 
Thank you to my young men of Morrissey Manor -all eight of you. You know exactly who you are, but I do not think you will ever know how much you truly mean to me. You have helped make my last year a very ... interesting one, shall we say? If nothing else, I love you all for it, and don't get all weirded outjust because I said I love you, okay? I still expect a floor to crash on come next football season. 
A final grand thank you to Saint Mary's for giving me the opportunity to come here and glean the campus and academia for all it is worth. If I could take one thing with me, I would not be able to decide, as there is so much here that I love. Above all else, I am taking the knowledge that I am a young woman coming into my own. strengthened by the most amazing backbone I could ever have thought possible. 
This list could go on and on, and there is so much that I left off that deserves props, but I only have so much space. So as a closing note, I say to you all -do not miss me, because I will never be far away. I know I will not miss you too much, as you are all imprint­ed on my heart. 
Afolly Strzelecki is a graduating Viewpoint columnist with an English degree. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Words cannot express 
I've had the good fortune to write a fair amount of let­ters and papers in the past four years, but I don't think I ever had a more difficult time writing than with what I'm about to say. How anyone, even a psychology major with all his innate, God-given ability, can sum up four years of thanks and praise into words baffies me. 
the entire lot of us so many times this year. I hope we didn't frighten the children too much. 
I don't think anyone will believe half the stories I'll be telling for the next few years, but I wouldn't trade the memories for anything in the world. 

Wow, it really is impossible to sum up four years 
College has been a life rich and full of incident with mere words. There are so many people I -everything that it should be and more. Every could thank. but I won't take up much more day at this University has the potential to be space. memorable, and the biggest challenge to any My roommates and I are watching West student is not taking that for granted. A Wing, and I just realized I'll be watching next wise man once said, life here moves pretty season (if I have time, hopefully) without fast, if you don't stop and look around, you 
them, that we'll be scattered to the winds, for 
0 
might miss it. Or something to that effect. 
lack of a better way to put it. This is a good But enough fortune cookie wisdom. As 
thing, but the sadness I feel when I consider tempting as it is to talk about myself for 
the closeness of my undergraduate years only everyone to read, I have a few people to 
accents how amazing they have been, how thank and this is as good a place as any I many unbelievable memories I have. think. And now that I'm done for real, I sincerely 
I'd like to thank anyone who helped me get hope that everyone has enjoyed their last through four years of living with Brandon weeks. I know I have. And as much as I will miss Zabrocki, from the body-painting first home you all, I know in my heart we'11 all meet again game to the last game of darts we won on and have many more stories to tell. ' 
Wednesday night. I'm grateful for that help. Brandon isn't such a bad guy, and thanks to him for making me look like the normal one every once in a· while. 
Thanks to my psych nerds for making some classes bearable and still others something to look forward to and cherish. Thank you to the Venters for showing me professors don't have to be the enemy and for feeding 
God bless and keep each and every member of this senior class. 
Jeremy Joslin 
graduating senior Siegfried Hall May 6, 2001 
'I hate to leave, but it's 
time to go' 
My mom's preschool class sings a song to close out their day that sums up much more eloquently than I could my feelings as I approach graduation. It goes as follows, "Ifs time to go-I hate to leave, but it's time to go. I hate to leave, but it's time to go. I had so much fun that I'd really like to stay but I'll be back again someday. So long, so long, so long." 
Her preschool­ers sing each day the words that describe my emotions as I get ready to wear my cap and gown. 
I feel a lot like a preschooler as I leave this place. Three-and 4-year olds are notorious for the phrase, "Let me do it." They want to do everything themselves but are often terrified when you let them do it. I feel exactly like that. I want to be "independent" (whatever that means) and control what my life will bring. 
However, when I actually get to leave the place where my meals are cooked, my hallway is vacuumed and security will give me a ride home, I feel like crying. In some ways, I want to be an adult and do it myself. Mostly, however, I'm terrified that they're letting me do it myself from now on. 
Teachers are always telling little kids to hold someone's hand as they cross the street and to look both ways. I would love someone to hold my hand as I cross State Route 31 for the last time and leave this place. I 

also hope I remember to look both 
ways. I hope I look at the Dome and 
the Avenue and remember them as I 
cross that street. 
Preschool children hug everyone 
within arms reach. They love hugs. 
For the last several weeks, as I have 
experienced countless "lasts," all I 
have wanted was a hug. I've needed 
someone like that preschool teacher 
who hugs her little ones as their par­
ents leave them at school for the first 
time. I've wanted someone to hold 
me tight and assure me that every­
thing will be okay. 
Preschoolers are also completely confident that they can do anything. They have no inhibitions. As much as graduating scares me, I want to be like those· preschoolers. I want to be ready for whatever comes next. I want to take whatever comes with the same openmindedness that preschoolers bring to each new expe·· rience they have. As I leave here, I want to leave, not only sad about what is being left behind, but excited and confident about what is to come. 
One of the best parts of a preschooler's day is playing in the playroom with their friends. That has not changed a bit since I was four years old. The playroom may now be Senior Bar and The 'Backer, but all I really want to do is spend time with the people that have made this place so special: my friends. 
Those preschoolers have got it right. Hold hands as you cross the street, be ready for anything, play with your friends and get a lot of hugs. 
And, as the preschoolers say, it is time to go. It is time to walk across that stage and get our diploma. It is time to say goodbye to our rooms and our roommates, our professors and our classmates. It is time to move on from this place and use what we have learned here. Its time 
to go. 
I do hate to leave. I am excited for what graduation brings, but I am not ready to leave all that this place has meant to ine. I hate to leave behind all the places and people that have become a second home and family to me. Some days I feel like they're pushing me out the door. I want to scream, "But don't you know, I'm not ready to go yet." I hate to leave. 
But, it is time to go. I am graduat­ing, and I am not leaving here empty-handed. I take with me all the things I have learned in my classes, all the faith that this place has instilled in me and all the love the people here have showered on me. I leave with a foundation for whatever my next adventure brings that is so strong that I feel ready to take on anything. It's time to go. 
I had so much fun that I'd really like to stav. The memories that will 
stay with me are some of the best memories I have from my life. I don't think I have ever laughed so hard, cried so much or enjoyed so many people as 1have in this world we call college. I don't know if I should have been allowed to have so much fun in four years and get a degree for it in the end. I had so much fun that I'd really like to stay. 
But, I'll be back again someday. I will be that alumna in the bar and at the football games that really doesn't understand she doesn't go here any­more. And, I will be proud to be her. I'll be back again someday. 
So long, so long, so long. 
Molly McVoy is graduating with a degree in biochemistry. She served as Saint Mary's Editor last year. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not nec­essarily those ofThe Observer. 
p 

E
~ena 
O
THE 
page 22 BSERVER Friday, May 18, 2001 
SCENE ASKS 


"Living so Jar away from home and feeling so detached.,, 
Crystal Aguilar-McMillan senior, Le Mans Hall 
"My parents gave things up so I could go here. For me, gzvzng up my summers so I could work to pay for my education was a big sacrifice. •• 
Kathy Fech senior, Le Mans Hall 


..Loans, debts, financial sacrifices -but we knew we were getting into it at the beginning. I knew that Saint Mary's would be worth it. •• 
Cindy Traub senior, Annunciata Hall 
"We've had to sacrifice a lot to get me home, or for my f amity to come visit me. I haven't been able to go home for many holidays.,, 
Megan Kosel senior, Annunciata Hall 


"When I wanted to go to Spain, all my mom ·s paychecks went towards that instead ofanything else.,, 
Alyson Leatherman senior, Le Mans Hall 
Photo poll by KYLIE CARTER/ The Observer 
What a long, stran: 
Paul Grush reflects on his Notre Dame educe 
By AMANDA GRECO Scene Editor 
It is a cold Monday morning. Your alarm clock screams to rouse you in time to make it to your 8 a.m. class. More than a foot of snow has come down to cover South Bend -and Notre Dame, with all her luxuries, is not yet immune to such displays of Mother Nature's midwestern might. As you hit the snooze button and snuggle down under the covers, you think "There's no way I'm walking across campus in this weath­er." For MBA student Paul Grush, a simple walk across campus was never an option. When the alarm clock rang for this student, husband and father of four, it was time to rise and shine, no matter how few hours he slept, no matter how hard it was snowing. Not only did Paul face the respon­sibilities of family life before his first class each day, but a two-hour commute lay between his home in the small town of Grabill, Ind. and the University. Receiving a degree from Notre Dame has been a life­long dream for Paul; this Now that classes are over and finals have been taken, Pa Sunday -after two grueling left to right) Michelle, John, Jennifer and Megan. 

years of hard work and thou­sands of miles passed on the toll road -that dream will become a reality. 
After 16 years as a software engineer for Logikos, a custom software engineer­ing company, Paul decided in July of 1999 that he wanted more. The computer science degree he had received from the Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology did not provide him the business background to support the management or ownership positions he wanted to pursue. "I decided to go back to school to supplement my technical skills," Paul said. 
One day during lunch with Kristal, his wife of nine years, he popped the ques­tion: "What do you think about me going to school?" 
Kristal knew that school would be a large commitment for Paul to undertake, one that would require him spending long hours attending classes, studying and working on projects. She knew that his schooling would require her to support the family financially with her salary from her career as a software quality engineer at Raytheon. She also knew she would have to take a majority of the child rearing on herself. What she didn't know was that her husband would spend four hours every day in h'is car, racking up more than 1,100 miles a week. 
Paul searched for a school fairly close to home, within what he deemed a "com­mutable distance." His main goal was to avoid uprooting the family and the home they had built throughout the past nine years. There were several options closer to home, but Notre Dame was his hope; the others served as back ups. 
After his acceptance to Notre Dame, the enormity of Paul's educational endeavor struck him. Orientation consisted of what he and his wife affectionately refer to as "boot camp" -two weeks of driving the long haul, seven days a week. Each semester, Paul took anywhere from 15 to 17 credit hours, and in his first year. he had at least one 8 a.m. class each semes­ter. Though the MBA program boasts no Friday classes, work groups and resources available only on campus forced Paul to spend a majority of his Fridays taking the trip back to the Bend. Saturdays found him immersed in Notre Dame football, and even some Sundays required his attendance at on-campus lectures. 
Paul's devotion to his education was not limited to the approximately eight hours he averaged on campus each day. While driving, Paul would listen to audio books and digital audio versions of "The Wall Street Journal" and "The Economist." During finals, Paul would digitally record his notes and listen to them repeatedly while he drove. 
Once at home, Paul continued to study and work. Though the width of his office door was all that separated him from his family, they often found that his work kept him isolated from them. "My family was basically on hold," Paul said, "I missed a lot of opportunities to be with them because of school." Paul lost the chance to participate in his children's school functions and had to pass up trick­or-treating two years in a row because of school obligations. 
The children, now ranging in age from 2 to 8, wanted their father home. "He never had enough time to play with us or help with homework, he didn't get to eat supper with us," said Jennifer, the oldest. "He wasn't even happy and he was always doing homework," she added. Once football season was through, Paul was able to take the children to their Saturday morning swim lessons. But even while the kids swam "Dad was always reading and studying," Jennifer said. 
One evening, as Paul tucked in his daughter Michelle, she asked if he was going to Notre Dame the following day. When he replied that yes, he would be going, she began to cry, telling her father that the kids no longer wanted him to go to school because it kept them from see­ing him. "That was hard," Paul admitted, "But the kids were really good troopers." 
Perhaps the strongest trooper in the 
\ 

O
THE 
Friday, May 18, 2001 BSERYER page 23 
ge trip it's been • • • 
1tion, and the long road he took to get there 
Now that Paul is through with school, the family is returning to normal. Already the changes have begun. After his last final exam, Kristal already felt as thoug_h she "had the old Paul back," she said. "The morning after his last exam, he was a new man. It was a miracle." 
Paul hopes now that with his new degree, he will be able to find the satisfying career he wants, either buying or starting a company that handles telecom­munications or medical technolo-. gy. While Kristal obviously holds no resentment for the extra work she contributed while her hus­band was in school, she is clearly ready for her own break. When Paul mentioned the possibility of pursuing a Ph.D., Kristal laughed and told him he could do that ­with his next wife! For Kristal, she envisions a future that holds more time for her to spend with her children. "I have been work­ing for 19 years," she said. "In a few years, I would like to quit and be more involved with my kids." As for the money and time Kristal contributed for her hus­band, her only request is that she "see a return on [her] invest­ment." 
Looking back over the last two years, the Grushes are able to breathe a deep sigh of relief and feel a great sense of accomplish­ment. "I never thought we wouldn't get through it," Kristal said, "Only sometimes: I just 
begged 'God, please hurry up!"' In his 
two years of two hour commutes, Paul 
only once missed a day of classes -not 
because he didn't want to get out of bed 
or because of inclement weather, but 
because his brother was undergoing a 
serious surgery. Even then, Paul contem­
plated trying to make his evening class. 
"There were never any days where I 
didn't want to go," he said. "School was 
something that I wanted to do for my 
family." In retrospect, Paul sums up his 
commute to school as "amazingly sim­
ple." Soon he will have his degree -and 
all without a single speeding ticket. 

family has been Paul's wife Kristal, who ran a household as would a single, work­ing mom -all while supporting her hus­band and his quest for higher learning. Paul isn't shy in admitting that he couldn't have made it without Kristal. "She has been so supportive," Paul said. "I call her my 'pioneer woman."' 
It seems the trials have only strength­ened their relationship. "I knew it was going to be hard," Kristal said, "But I also knew it was for a finite period of time. You can endure anything if you know it is finite," she added. It was hardest at the beginning, Kristal said, when Megan was only eight months old. It didn't take long, though, before the morning routine of waking, dressing, feeding and delivering four children and the afternoon juggling of rides, meals, homework, bathing and activities became simple for Kristal and the chil­dren. Aside from the constant worry for Paul's safety on the road, Kristal found the work with the family and the sacri­fices she made for her hus­band to be "worth it ... it has been worth it." 
Financially, the prospect of Paul going to Notre Dame was a bit harrowing. Not only were Kristal and Paul halving the family income and taki_ng on the added expense of tuition, they were also paying for the cost of his travel. Paul traveled a total of 230 miles round trip four to seven times a week. This amounted to approxi­mately $28 a day in gasoline, plus $4 for tolls round trip, on top of general maintenance for the vehicle. "All in all, I think I put on around 75,000 miles since I started school," Paul said. The way Kristal sees it, though, their life is status quo and ideal. "I am living the American dream," she said, "I have kids and we are in debt!'' 
SCENE ASKS 
,.::-.= 
What wa~ fhegrratest sacrifice;'you matle for your e<Jt1~afi6n? 
.•... · ..· ·::7:~~~~-.:-~.-«-.,...:.,"~:;,..i•~:~~,,~·:.. : 

"Running water, medical care and safety by going abroad to Nepal.,, 
Jenny Hickman senior, Pasquerilla West 
"/ sacrificed sleep, sanity and had to deal with South Bend weather." 
Tim Brick senior, Knott Hall 


"The amount ofmoney that I have to pay back!" 
Jackie Bower senior, McGlinn Hall 

"/ sacrificed my sobriety. •• 
Jesse Dang senior, Dillon Hall 

·:1 sacrificed my nightlife for studying.,, 
Carlos Gomez Meade senior, Keenan Hall 

"I sacrificed my grades.,, 
Ellen Leuchtmann senior, Howard Hall 
Photo poll by LISA VEL TE/ The Observer 

AMANDA GRECO/The Observer Outside of his hard work, Paul owes his successful completion of the MBA program to his wife, Kristal. 
------·--------~~------­
-----------.--------------------------------------------,----­
Friday, May 18, 2001 
page 24 The Observer . SPORTS 

WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Riley 
continued from page 44
. Irish bring home championship 
leading the Irish to the Sweet 16. She 


I 
I 
l
\ 
r 
ByTIM CASEY 
Senior StaffWriter 
Before the season, anyone associ­ated with women's college basket­ball stated the obvious. Connecticut and Tennessee, the two glamour programs, the defending national champion and runner-up, would more than likely meet once again for the bragging rights (and another banner) on April Fool's Day, 2001. 
How cocky was the always self­assured Connecticut coach Geno Auriemma? 
"I know you're writing for Notre Dame and you want to write, you know. that I spent all summer wor­rying about Notre Dame," Auriemma said. "The only thing I spent all summer worrying about was where my next beer and my next tan was coming from." 
Auriemma delivered that phrase nearly an hour after Notre Dame's 90-7 5 win over Connecticut in the semifinal games of the NCAA Final Four. Two nights later, on April 1, the Irish were national champions and the Huskies coach had had a few additional days to down his favorite post-season beverage. 
What happened in the ensuing eight months, between the summer of 2000 and the spring of 2001? For one, the Huskies and Volunteers both lost returning All-Americans to season-ending injuries (Connecticut's Shea Ralph and Svetlana Abrosimova and Tennessee's Tamika Catchings) while the Irish maintained a rela­tively healthy lineup the entire sea­son. 
But that's only part of the story. Even if Connecticut and Tennessee's stars had not gone down, Notre Dame still would have been the favorite. In fact, the Irish beat the Huskies by 16 points on Jan. 15, when Ralph and Abrosimova were both healthy. Also, in that game, for­ward Kelley Siemon played with a broken bone in her left wrist. 
The 92-76 win provided the first glimpse of what was to come. On Martin Luther King Day 2001, a 
CLASSIFIEDS 
group of women turned the normally quiet Joyce Center arena into a Notre Dame Stadium-type atmos­phere. Plus, the victory catapulted Notre Dame to its first ever number one ranking and perhaps more importantly, gave the Irish their first win in 12 tries over the Huskies. 
"To come out and see the Joyce Center full has been my dream for­ever since I've been here," McGraw said after the game. "It's one of those moments in my life that I'll always remember." 
By season's end, McGraw would have a few more memorable high­lights. 
There was Senior Day on Feb. 24, the last regular 
buzzer beater in Connecticut's 76-74 Big East tournament title victory and Notre Dame would have been the first undefeated team since the 1998 Tennessee squad. 
"I know we talked about it (win­ning a national title) last year.,. McGraw said March 31. "But it was sort of a hollow goal. I don't think the team was ready to achieve that, I don't think they were mature enough, I don't think they worked hard enough." 
They also weren't talented enough. This year, though, the Irish featured the best trio in the country plus several other players who accepted their roles. Ruth Riley blos­
somed from a 
season home good (but foul­
"/ know you ,re writing for 
game for prone) center
Notre Dame and you want to 
Siemon, Ruth into the National Riley, Niele Ivey, write that I spent all summer Player of the Imani Dunbar, Year. Ivey, the
worrying about Notre Dame. 
and Meaghan unheralded
The only thing I spent all 
Leahy. There fifth-year senior was the 89-33 summer worrying about was point guard, win over finally achieved
where my next beer and my
Georgetown in some national
next tan was coming from .•,
the Big East attention and tournament, the made second­largest margin Geno Auriemma team All­of victory in American. Alicia
Connecticut head coach 
tournament his­tory. There were the first two NCAA games at the Joyce Center, in which the Irish outscored Alcorn State and Michigan by an average of 41.5 points per contest. 
There was the 72-64 win over Vanderbilt in the Midwest regional final. a squad coached by Jim Foster, McGraw's former boss at St. Joseph's. There was the come-from­behind win in the Final Four, when the Irish trailed by 16 points late in the first half. 
And then there was the national title game. For two hours, Notre Dame and Purdue staged a classic battle. It ended in storybook Indiana fashion, with Riley connecting on two free throws in the final seconds of the 68-66 win. 
Save for Tammy Sutton-Brown's last-second block in a 54-53 Rutgers win on Feb. 17 and Sue Bird's 
TICKETS 
Need one ticket to Graduation. Price negotiable. Call 4-3760. 
2 Tickets for Graduation Needed! 
Will Pay$$$ 
Call Dustin@ 243-1751 
FOR RENT 
J 
3-6 SEDAM HOMES $180 per person, Furn. Summer/Fall 
272-6306 
EXECUTIVE SUITE: One Bedroom Furnished Executive Suite -Cable 2001-FB WKENDS 2002 -JPW-BLUE GOLD GAME • GRADUATION FOR SALE 'OUR HOUSE' B&B 2 Ml NOFND 219-277-4759 WOODBRIDGE CONDO ~!J . flttfl M Q[QQ!IlS l ~ad.edu 18199 Stoneridge • Apt F 
. 1239 Sq. Ft. $84, 300 3 bedrooms, Rent for fall semester 1 1 /2 baths, dining room, living 4 bedrooms, 2 full baths, washer & room, kitchen. Condo tee $165 per dryer, basement w/hot tub, new fur-month. The Hickey Group • Karen nace, security system. Castelluccio Call to see 674-1682. 
277-0636. 
Newly remodled 5 bedroom house available to rent for fall semester. 2 full baths, washer & dryer, huge rec room, security system. Call now to see 277-0636. 
Duplex apartment 1 mile form cam­pus, good neighborhood. Downstairs large 2 BR $500/month. Upstairs 1 large BR Laundry avail­
1428 Marigold Way. Northshore Cond. Close to ND. 1 Bdrm, 1 bath, LR, DR & Kitchen inclu. All appl. 1 car garage & large storage closet Condo fees include. Ext. mainte­nance, pool, tennis, clubhouse, cable, gas heat, water, sewer, trash, water heater & water softner. $72,500. Call Doris 255-7862. 
Ratay, a streaky 
shooter as a freshman in 1999-2000, set the NCAA record for three-point per­centage in a season. 
And Siemon. junior forward Ericka Haney, sophomore center Amanda Barksdale, and freshman guards Jeneka Joyce and Le'Tania Severe helped the women's basketball team capture national attention. 
Even President George Bush, who will address the graduating seniors on Sunday, praised them at a morn­ing ceremony at the White House. 
"I love what Coach McGraw said," Bush said on April 23. "She said, 'Usually there are negative things that occur during the season. But this year I've had not to call a single team meeting. I've gotten no com­plaints from professors. We can't even yell at the players, because they do everything we ask.' I ne.ed your help with Congress." 
averaged 18 points that year in Notre Dame's three NCAA tournament games. 
Riley's effectiveness on the floor increased year after year, due in no small part to her work ethic and dedication that served as a model for her teammates. 
"Ruth is the type of player that you look at and point to to say this is what we want everybody else to do," McGraw said. 
As a senior, the once-shy Riley began to take more initiative, instructing team­mates and often serving as a spokesper­
son. 
"She led by example I think every year that she was here,"McGraw said. "This year she was more vocal, and I thought that was a big improvement for her." 
The biggest adjustments Riley made as a senior, however, were to her game on the court. She displayed a tendency to get into foul trouble at the worst possible times, including a Sweet 16 loss to Texas Tech in 2000 during which the Irish blew a 16-0 lead. 
During Notre Dame's championship run, Riley fouled out of just two contests but still averaged 3.1 blocked shots per con­test. 
"I 'think it's just that I started realizing that you don't have to block everything," Riley said. "I just knew that I· wanted to be out there on the court with my team­mates and not be hindered by foul trou­ble. It was something I focused on all year." 
That team spirit helped the Irish form a potent offensive attack. Facing double­teams, Riley's scoring was limited early on in the 2000 season. Riley frequently passed the ball off to open teammates. The names Alicia Ratay, Niele Ivey and Kelley Siemon began to appear in the "Leading Scorer" column more and more often. 
"It definitely makes us a lot harder to guard," Riley said. ''That's one of the rea­sons why we were so successful this year. because they couldn't just focus on one player." 
McGraw thinks that improvement set Riley apart from other talented scorers on less successful teams. 
"I thought her passing was one of the best parts of her game this year." McGraw said. "She doesn't care if she scores a lot of points, that's the best thing about Ruth. She's so unselfish, she doesn't get frustrated if she's not scoring because it's not that important to her." 
The Observer accc:pcs classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. ar the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
FEMALE ROOMMATE -DETROIT SUBURBS Join another '01 ND grad! Call Allison 4-2339 
PERSONAL 
Colleen -from teaching me how to copy edit and get a co-ex freshman year, you've been one of my favorite people here. Here's to poli sci classes, Observer parties, Big East/Big Apple adventures, wearing our black well, Professor Left, late nights in 024 South, security trips with mentos, HC/Annunciata, Cathy Maloney's freshman year appear­ance, dancing to Janet at Heartl~nd and so much more. I'm going to miss you... but the East CoasVDC area is waiting for us! Go out there and rock for me_ Noreen AMM, TL, CK, FP, KO, TC, LH, JC, BK, MM, LL and CM: 
Rocking hard core won't even begin 
to describe the job you've done for 
us these past four years. Thanks for 
your guidance, cooperation. talent 
and laughter. Now, off to rock else­
where. And keep in touch. 
The Basement (024 and otherwise) 
will miss you. Mike, Noreen & Kerry 
To the 2000-2001 news depart­ment: 
Molly-Two years have gone by awfully fast. I couldn't have asked tor a bet­ter sister or a better friend to share my time here at Saint Mary's. A call to Cincinatti will never be quite the same as a trip to LeMans tor a hug. If I can end my four years here with half the amount of class and care you did, I'll be lucky! You've always been and always will be someone I can look up to. I love you! Your little sis, Murray 
Thanks for all your hard work this year and for putting up with me! Kate, Thanks for running the show ... 
· Thanks especially to the senior staff _tonight and every night You know for this edition. we'll miss ya, woman2. Take care. :O} AMM Jason 
Connolly and Noreen: News seniors (especially woman): Thanks for a great year! Can't thank you guys enough for We ;;ouldn't have done it without making the past year great. Closer you_ than my peeps you all are to me. 
'·  & Local Phone,  able for both. Landlord pays  :0) AMM  Jason  
Housekeeping Included @  gas/water/trash. Mature  '87 Saab 9000  Molly ­ you got me through my  
$60.00/night (footbalVgraduation  seniors/grad students preferred  Bk 4door, sunroof, gd concl  term as SMC editor sane ancl  Jason,  Killin Turner ANE:  
weekend rates higher).  233-1604,  BRAD: 251-1465  kicked butt with yours, you keep our  Good luck next year.  Dressed so fresh and clean. Is  
Call Tom  cups team winning and you've  Spain ready for what you're bring­ 
(219)271-6808 or email:  given me a legacy to live up to in  ing? We'll miss ya. Have a blast.  
www.BeUeTeimSuim§iaQI k2W­ Pebbles of Brandywine Creek Bed and Breakfast  WANTED  the rankings. The 'Backer won't be the same  You rock. :0) AMM  Jason  
ND alum owned/managed  Niles, 15 mins. from Notre Dame  without you... and neither will the SMC desk. Thank you, thank you,  Congratulations to Annie, Sheryl,  O staff (especially the newsies): Thanks tor making it great so far.  
3 bdrm duplex 501/503 Eddy St. Appliances W/0  616-687-8924 www.Pebblesofawe.com  1 FEMALE ROOMMATE TO SHARE 2-BEDROOM APT. W/SENIOR FEMALE FOR NEXT  thank you for being a great editor, an even better friend, and tor keep­ing me laughing.  Katie, Tiffany and Lia. Flat 7 forev­er1  Have a wonclerful summer, and get ready to kick some butt in the fall. Jason  
1 mile from campus  1 BDRM. APT.  YEAR. TURTLE CREEK.  And the Belles will always have a  Love,  
space reserved for you on the team  Last one O staff!  
273-8332 or 250-7080  233-7350  CALL 243-1487  when you come back to visit!  Anne Marie  See you in the fall!  



\ 
Friday, May 18, 2001 page 25
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
• FO~ 
elcome 
Pauline Alokolaro Birmingham, Alabama Adam Anderson Oklahoma City, ·oklahoma Ed Bowers Mobile, Alabama Emily Brill St. Petersburg, Florida Elizabeth Buescher Mobile, Alabama Rachel Bundick . Pensacola, Flcnida Jake Cook Los Angeles, California Travis Davey Biloxi, Mississippi Aubree Dill Dallas, Texas Kevin Dunn Jacksonville, Florida Edward Foy Montgomery, Alabama Danielle Gabriel Charleston, South Carolina Katherine Gaffney Los Angeles, California Colleen Garvey Nashville, Tennessee Jessica Gray ]ackson, Mississippi Tisha Greenslade Baton Rouge, Louisiana 
·Brian Hobbins Mobile, Alabama 
Alison Hodrick Birmingham, Alabama Charles Holden...Corbett Broivnsville, Texas Molly Kahn Memphis, Tennessee Stephen Kelleher Memphis, Tennessee Carolyn Kelley Kansas City, Kansas Timothy Kuhn Charleston, South Carolina Rebekah Madrid Broivnsville, Texas Tara Mahnesmith Mobile, Alabama Caroline Marino Charleston, South Carolina 
The Alliance for Catholic Education is proud to welcome its eighth class of Catholic school teachers. We give thanks far their gift of service to America's Catholic schools. Please join us in congratulating the follnwing graduates of Saint Mary's College and the University ofN_otre Dame. 
ACE 81 
-.\ !­ 
Casey McCluskey  Jackson, Mississippi  
Jennifer McEntee  Oklahoma City, Oklahoma  
Nicholas Nagurski  ]ackson, Mississippi  
. ]oseph Napolitano  Kansas City, Kansas  
Mark Nolan..-Romanelli  Atlanta, Georgia  
Thomas Ogorzalek  Biloxi, Mississippi  
·Anthony Perri  Plaquemine, Louisiana  
Molly Posedel  Plaquemine, Louisiana  
Katherine Rako«Jski  Biloxi, Mississippi  
NoNieqa Ramos  Kamas City, Kansas  
·Maggie Remstad  Mission, Texas  
Michael Riley  St. Petersburg, Florida  
Michael Rinehart  Charlotte, North Carolina  
Bradford Rodrigues  Dallas, Texas  
Monica Salazar  Brownsville, Texas  
Kaileen Sanner  Montgomery, Alabama  
Ted Wallach  Tucson, Arizona  
Michael Werner  Tucsan, Arizona  
Karen Wiener  Dallas, Texas  
Maggie Wood  Atlanta, Georgia  
Ellen Wright  Oklahoma City, Oklahoma  
Michael Zelenka  St. Petersburg, Florida  

~­
-
.... 
-· 
Friday, May 18, 2001
• page 26 The Observer . SPORTS 
TRACK AND FIELD 
Graf makes 8-cut, leads 
Grow, Shay head to NCAAs 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Sports Editor 
They started out as two teams of the many, working together for the best possible team finish at each weekend's competition. What remains are the few and the proud, ath­letes who already have or are working to qualify for the NCAA Outdoor Track and field track athletes. 
Eleven athletes -four men and seven women -remain at Notre Dame while the rest of the team ended their season with the Big East Championships on May 6. At that meet, the women's team finished third for the third con­secutive year, while the men's squad took sixth. 
Irish head coach Joe Piane feels that his teams could have placed even higher had it not been bitten by the injury bug. On the women's side, sprinter/long jumper Tameisha King injured her hamstring, an injury Piane thinks kept his team out of second place. 
"Tameisha King got hurt," Piane said. "If she wouldn't have been hurt she could have placed in the 100. the 100­meter hurdles and the long jump. That probably would have got us into second place." 
On the men's side, the defending champion Irish lost top 2000 scorers Chris Cochran and Marshaun West to graduation while sprinter Tom Gilbert was limited to the long jump with a hamstring injury. Liz Grow and Ryan Shay both were named Most Outstanding Track Performer for the men's and women's competitions, respectively. 
Shay won 10,000-meter run in a time of 29:17.61. more than 12 seconds over Steve Bohan of West Virginia. Grow won the 400-meters in a time of 53.17 seconds in the finals, but it was her time of 52.40 in the preliminary heats that benefited her most. 
That time automatically qualified Grow for the NCAA Championships in Eugene, Ore. May 30-June 2. Grow cur­rently is ranked fifth in the nation. 
But Notre Dame's top sprint­er isn't just running the 400­meters this postseason. Grow teamed up with sophomore Kymia Love and freshmen Kristen Dodd and Ayesha Boyd to take the gold in the 4x100­meter relay at the Big East meet with a time of 45.37 sec• onds. 
The same group took fourth in the 4x400-meter relay, fin­ishing in 3:39.45 seconds. Both relays are in contention for spots at the NCAA meet on Eugene. 
Shay, who took part in the Olympic Trials last summer in the 10,000-meters, already automatically qualified for that event earlier this season. He also is competing for a spot in the 5,000-meters. If Shay qual­ifed in both, he would compete in each event, Piane said. 
King expects to return to the track this weekend, taking part in the long jump at the Georgia Tech Invitational. Fellow jumper Jaime Volkmer hopes to qualify for the NCAA's in the pole vault, after taking second at the Big East meet with a vault of 11-feet-11 
3/4. 
"I placed well but I didn't jump as well as I would have liked to," Volkmer said. "I was kind of disappointed because the height that won, I've jumped before. It wasn't exactly what I wanted to accomplish." 
At the Big East meet, Volkmer also competed in the long jump and triple jump. Now she can concentrate on the pole vault exclusively, a focus she thinks will be benefi­cial. 
"I can put all my energy and focus all on vaulting," Volkmer said. "As far as nationals go, I think I'm going to need to jump 13-feet or 13-2 to get in." 
The other athletes still com­peting on the men's side are freshman Kevin Somok and senior Pat Conway in the 1,500-meters and junior Derek Dyer in the discus. Each look to qualify for the NCAA Championships at this week­end's Georgia Tech Invitational. 
Belles in final meet 
eight finishes. A second place fin­
By KATIE McVOY 
ish in the 100-meter hurdles with 
Associate Sports Editor 
a time of 16.50 seconds brought in seven points for the Belles, the Junior transfer student Laura most any runner sacred. Her 4 Graf made history for Saint foot, 10 inch high jump was Mary's College at the MlAA track enough to land her a fifth place championships last weekend as finish, behind a 5-2 winning jump her 800-meter time was good by Alma's Kristi Pykosz. She enough for a provisional qualifica­added an eight place finish in the tion for nationals. 400-meter hurdles, an event Despite the fact that Graf's which she has run only twice, 
2:15.28 time was good enough to with a time of 1:13.61. break the previous MIAA record Joing Graf and Burket in scoring and set a new Saint Mary's out-were freshmen Becky Shepkowski 
. door record, it was only good and Jaclyn Thompson. enough to give her a third place Shepkowksi's sixth place finish finish in the race. Hope's Jennifer in the triple jump was a surprise Price and Calvin's Sara Veltkamp following a season where she gen­finished ahead of Graf; Price won erally took second place to Burket by nearly two seconds. who holds the school record in the A provisional qualification gives event. However, a 31-10 jump, Graf a chance to compete in the which still fell short of her person­NCAA national meet if too few al best 32-7, was enough to earn runners qualify automatically. Shepkowski points for the team. However. it is unlikely that her Thompson tied her personal time will be good enough to take best pole vault and tied the school her to the meet. record, which she holds. Her 8-6 "We wanted to prove we have jump landed her in fourth place in the girls who want to compete," the MIAA, falling three feet short Graf said. "We don't care what of the winning 11-6 jump. happened in the past. We are The Saint Mary's 400-meter stronger this year." relay team took home a fifth place The recently disbanded Saint finish with a time of 54.14, wrap­Mary's track team finished in sev­ping up the scoring for the day. enth place in the last meet of their Calvin took home an unques­current existence, defeating the tioned MIAA title. The Knights 
Comets of Olivet. claimed first place in 17 of the 20 Four women scored points for events, including five new MIM the Belles, including Graf. records. Only three runner were 
Junior Erica Burket led the able to quench the fire Calvin Belles in scoring with three top began at the Hope field. 



The Department of Preprofess· nal Studies 
.. .,. 
all those gradu have been accepted to the -~ofessional schools. 
********** ********** 
Welcome to the of the 5,300 ·active ND graduate Physicians, Dentists, and other health professionals practicing throughout the world. 

··• 

\ 
Friday, May 18, 200 l 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page '2,7 ..._ 
BEAR 
STEARNS 

.,,. 
:"'
ft,'
y£ 

1
;.·
r
r 
I ,
' 1
,{ 
, l page 28 The Observer . SPORTS Friday> May 18, 2001 
I • 
BASEBALL 

Notre Dame hopes for first Big East Tournament title 
Hokie rallies. Heilman, Mike Carlin, Ben Cooke 
By JEFF BALTRUZAK 
Virginia Tech. sporting a 27 -and Mike Naumann. it will be 
Assistant Sports Editor 
26-1 record for the season, went their last home games in an Irish 14-11-1 in Big East play. The uniform. 
The Notre Dame baseball team Hokies have had problems on "They've given every ounce of will most likely be at graduation the hill, with Chip Runyon having energy they possibly could," said this weekend, but don't expect the best ERA on the staff, allow­Irish head coach Paul Mainieri. them to be especially perky. ing 3.53 earned runs per nine "The greatest thing is they're not The Irish will travel through innings. In contrast, seven Irish prima donnas, they'll talk to a 
the night on Sunday morning, pitchers have an ERA below young kid." 
leaving the Big East 3.53. While Mainieri said the seniors 
Championships in Bridgewater, "Most of all, I'm looking for­are not "an especially vocal 
N.J. at 4 a.m. and returning at ward to Virginia Tech," Porzel group," their leadership by10 a.m., just in time to grab their said. "We're going to have example has been undeniable. sheepskins. Tamayo on the hill, and they The tandem of the All-American But before graduating, there's haven't faced our big guns." Heilman and Tamayo have won baseball to be played. It will be Tamayo's first meet­21 games for the Irish, and have 
The No. 2 Irish squared off ing with Virginia Tech this sea­emerged as one of the top week­against Virginia Tech Thursday, son. The senior righthander end starting duos in the country. vying for a Big East owns an 8-1 record, and oppos­Porzel has recovered from a Championship postseason cham­ing hitters have batted .209 season opening slump to raise pionship that has eluded the pro­against the Miami native. He will his average more than 100 gram since it began Big East use the same pitching formula points duirng the latter half of play six years ago. The Irish that has proved successful the the 2001 campaign. The short­have already secured the regular entire spring. stop has proven effective in the 
season Big East title. 'Tm not going to be doing any­clutch, hitting .333 with runners 
The results of Thursday's thing different against them," he in scoring position. game were not know known said. And with Porzel's resurgenceWednesday night when The Other than against Virginia has come the resurgence of the Observer went to press. Tech. the Irish have been domi­entire Irish offense. Notre Dame 
"This is where the season nant in Big East play with a 22-4 is hitting .321 as a team, and has "We've watched the fan sup­achieving.starts," said senior captain Alec record. Today, the Irish will face provided the pitching staff with port grow and grow and grow," "This team has a lot of confi­Porzel, hitting .291 out of the either last year's champion increased run support. said Porzel. "We will play for dence -everyone knows what 
third lineup slot. "Everyone's Rutgers or Seton Hall. Notre "Our offense is on a roll," said ourselves and play for our fans." we expect," said Tamayo. comfortable. I think we have a Dame is a combined 6-0 against Porzel. "Everyone's looking to With so much success this sea­For all their on-field accom­real light mood. We'll become these two squads this year, get RBIs -everyone's stepped son, it's hard not to discuss plishments. Mainieri says that more focused in practice." outscoring them 50-13. up." Notre Dame baseball without this year's seniors will be 
The llokies provided two blem­Being the No. 3 team in the Hosting a regional has the mentioning the College World remembered for different rea­ishes on Notre Dame's 45-9-1 country has proved to have other added benefit of playing before Series. The Irish haven't visited sons as well. 
record, beating the Irish twice in benefits besides prestige for the the Irish faithful. Notre Dame Omaha mid-June since 1957. "I think their legacy will be Blacksburg on March 25. In both Irish. Notre Dame will host an Mainieri was born three months
has seen their home crowds that they showed everyone the games the Irish had leads enter­NCAA Regional at Frank Eck grow as they inched up in the later. proper way to carry themselves 
ing the final innings, only to see Stadium on May 25-27. For polls and claimed their status as But its clear the 2001 team as Notre Dame baseball play­the advantages evaporate with seniors Porzel, Tamayo, Aaron a national powerhouse. knows what they're capable of ers," he said. 
.Congratulations to the fallowing 
Citation cit Merit 

I
winners: 
Allan Huebner Alumni Hall Kathryn Wood McGlinn Hall 
Katrin Miller Badin Hall Gerard Olinger Morrissey Hall 
'; 
l 
Mary Beth Stryker Breen-:Phillips Hall Ben Perossa 0'Neill Hall 11 i Patrick O'Donnell Carroll Hall Casey McCluskey Pangborn Hall 
f, 
! 
Joanne Koehl Cavanaugh Hall Liza Villaruz Pasquerilla East 
Joseph Lomangino Dillon Hall Tisha Greenslade 
I' 
Pasquerilla West Kimberly Jackson Farley Hall Patrick Lyden -St. Edward's Hall Justin Westervelt Fisher Hall 
Shawn Storer Siegfried Hall Susan Palladino Howard Hall Daniel McDermott Sorin Hall 
i, 
Michael Kassing Keenan Hall Robert Chambers Stanford Hall 
Greg Sech Keough Hall Aileen Barry Walsh Hall 
Andrew Olejnik Knott Hall Katie Hainley 
Welsh Family Hall Carla DeJohn Lewis Hall Paul Nebosky Zahm Hall 
Emily Snow Lyons Hall Tony Wagner Office of Res. Life 
' I
.' From the Office of Student Affairs I ----------------------------------------------------------------'I I 


Friday, May 18, 2001 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 29 
Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown identifies the U.S. investment banking and brokerage activities of Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown Inc .• which is an indirect subsidiary of 
Deutsche Bank AG. *Trademark application pending. 
Global reach is 
Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown 
·Congratulations! 
Deutsche Bank is proud to welcome our University of Notre Dame Class of 2001 Full-time and Summer Analysts. 
Ellis A. Carson Priscilla Clements 
Michael Donohue 
Jeffrey S. Kurtzman 
Andrew T. Mclellan 
Ashok Raju 
Daniel Schaeffer 
Nicholas Wilhelmsen 
To learn more about 
Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown, 
visit our website at 
www.db.com/careers 
Deutsche Bank is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer (M/F/DN) 
leading to results™* 
IZI
Deutsche Bank 
It 1 • • .. • 

Friday, May 18, 2001 
page 30 The Observer . SPORTS 
SOFTBALL 
Irish make history, earn first No. 1 regional seed 
This marks the first time the Irish favorites to make their first South Carolina 1-0 to capture the was given to Notre Dame head ~ By PETE FRASSO softball team has been a No. 1 seed appearance in the College World Holiday Inn Invitational title. On coach Liz Miller, associate head Sports Writer in the NCAA tournament. Series, the playoff of the eight April 19, they swept a road double­coach Deanna Gumpf and assis­tants Traci Conrad and John
Because the team is playing, the regional champions to determine header against DePaul 7 -6 and 5­
Gumpf.
As students, parents, and faculty graduating seniors will not be able who wins the national title. 1. 
and the President of the United to participate in this weekend's The team began tournament The Irish are enjoying the No. 1 Senior All-American Jen Sharron States gather this weekend for ceremonies. play Thursday against No. 6 seed seed after having the most success­won an impressive fourth consecu­graduation and Commencement at The Irish finished the season Western Illinois. Also in Region ful season in team history. They tive Pitcher of the Year award, Notre Dame, the Irish women's with a 51-5 record, the best in Seven are Illinois State, DePaul, set a team record for wins, break­posting a 0.32 ERA in league com­softball squad still has some work team history, going 20-0 in Big South Carolina and Iowa. ing the old mark of 48 in 1996. petition, and a 10-0 record. 
The results of Thursday's games They currently hold a 0.76 team Lizzy Lemire received the Player
todo. East play. They headed into the Big were not known when The ERA, on pace to smash the old of the Year award, becoming the The team began its march to the East Tournament on a 33-game third player in school history to doCollege World Series and a shot at winning streak. Unfortunately. the Observer went to press Wednesday record of 1.14 set in 1993. 
On May 10, Notre Dame swept so. She hit .383 in conference play, 
a national title Thursday. The Irish Irish ran into bad luck, losing 2-1 night. 
" finished the season ranked eighth to Seton Hall, then were eliminated Notre Dame has had successes the three major awards at the Big Additionally, Kristin Schmidt in the nation, and are seeded first by Villanova, 1-0. against this field earlier in the sea­East Softball Championship received the Rookie of the Year in Region Seven hosted by Iowa. Despite this, the Irish are still the son. On Feb. 18, the Irish shut out awards banquet. Staff of the Year award. 
Belles play hard, but · can't make the grade 
l' By KATIE McVOY Associate: Sports Editor 
' 
'' It wasn't a question of solidI pitching or getting hits. The 
Saint Mary's softball team just
I 
r couldn't put the two together to bring home enough wins to put the team over .500 this season. 
The Belles finished in the same seventh place spot they finished last season in the MIAA, with a league record of 4-10 and an overall record of 14-19. Despite the losing record, senior Cindy Traub was happy with the team's perfor­mance. 
"I think that our season, although people may not see it as a success with our wins and losses, was a success because of the way we were able to deal with adversity on and off the field," she said. 
The team fell under the lead­ership of first-year head coach John Kovach, who served as an assistant coach last season. Kovach replaced last season's head coach, Joe Speybroeck, after he left the team shortly before the season started. 
Senior Anne Senger led the team's pitching effort along with help from junior Kristin Martin. Senger, who pitched 41 innings on the season, finished up her senior year with an ERA of 4.43 and a record of 1-5. Freshman 
0 HOW DOES A PE N BEGIN TO THA K THOSE WHO MEAN SO MUCH TO THEM? WE'RE NOT SURE, BUT WE HAVE DECIDED TO PUT AN AD IN THE PAPER AND THANK THEM THAT WAY,., TO OUR JAVA PROF WHO REALLY TAUGHT AND CARED ABOUT LEARNING, IT 1 S YOU WHO MAKE THIS 
... 
PLACE GREAT. NEVER STOP TEACHING BECAUSE EVERYONE ELSE WILL MISS OUT.
f; 
ii 
ANYTIME YOU NEED SOME HOUSE-SITTERS, WE WILL BE MORE THAN 
WILLING (WHO 
WOULDN'T WITH A CAT
tl .,.­
' } I 
LIKE THAT!) AND DON'T WORRY, YOU'LL '!11 
GET YOUR KUNG-FU 
MOVIES BACK, So AS 
WE FINISH THIS AD, 
il 
WE JUST WANTED TO 
SAY THANKS FOR A 
:~,, 
:1, 
GREAT YEAR. DON'T 
WORRY, YOU' LL HEAR 
'''• 
. !~ 
FROM US. 
t;:
(1 
•/i 
Libby Wilhelm rounded off Saint Mary's pitching with a 1.88 ERA after 26 innings of work. 
"Overall, I was pretty pleased with pitching this year," Kovach said. 
Sophomore catcher Susan Kutz led the Belles' hitting charge, racking up 10 RBIs, six doubles and one homerun. Her .444 batting average was enough to get her named to sec­ond team All-MIAA. 
The highlight of the season came in the form of a 2-0 week­end sweep of the Knights of Calvin College in mid-April. Martin pitched a shutout during the first game, giving the Belles their biggest winning margin of the season at eight. 
With Senger on the mound it. . was a close night cap, but Saint Mary's pulled out on top 13-12, tripling the number of wins it had taken in the MIAA up to that point. 
The hits fell for the Belles dur­
ing the doubleheader, as lead­
ing sluggers Rachel Deer and 
Kutz stole their way into home. 
"We had our hitting shoes on 
today." said Kovach of his 
team's strong hitting perfor­
mance. 
Four MIAA wins were not 
enough to boost the Belles into 
an MIAA playoff spot and the 
team ended its season with a 
disappointing loss to Goshen 
College in a doubleheader. 
tL:11 f~t grat\uafittg tttttt of.fet JEOftntrO' 
.  ·­ 
Joseph Ach  Jeremiah Heilman  David Nutz  
John Baldea  Mike Heinz  Judson Penton  
Matt Banach  Raul Hernandez  David Pickett  
Jose Barria  "Scotch" Herrity  Taras Pidhayny  
Thomas J. Brecht  Ted Higgins  Charles Prisco  
Matt Brejcha  Joseph Howarth  Al Ranaudo  
Michael Burgart  Gene Kim  Hans Rasmussen  
Todd Callais  Darren Kraft  Jaime Rojas  
Sean Cain  Thomas Krizmanich  Joe Rutledge  
Brandon Cooper  Biju Kurian  Francisco Sanchez  
Mike Dickerson  William Lahneman  John Schirano  
Trevor Eisele  J. Patrick Lyden  Paul Sladek  
Michael Ferraro  Steve Maio  Joseph Toboni  
Andrew Fitzgerald  Brian Meaney  Ryan Toney  
Dan Fremer  Michael Munn  John Veit  
Cesar Garcia  Kevin Murphy  Andrew Warnement  
Geoffrey Goode  Sharbil Nammour  Travis Wilson  
Norm Gray  Eric Nelson  Joseph Wiltberger  
Timothy Greene  Luis Nunez  David Wyncott  
Hunt Hanover  




Walsh Hall 

Hall 
Walsh 



Walsh Hall : sh Hall w·alsh Hall Walsh Hall 


-··--·--·--·-·---­
1/ 
-------8------~--------------·­
Ii!
I:, 
-
Friday, May 18, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 31 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Fourth season makes firsts 
By ANTHONY BISHOP Sports Writer 
The fourth season of 
Notre Dame women's 
lacrosse was a season of 
firsts. The team achieved 
its first-ever victory over a 
ranked team, Delaware, 
and then proceeded to 
defeat a top-10 team, Yale. 
These victories helped the 
Irish gain national recogni­
tion and their first ever 
ranking -peaking at No. 
18 -and first ever 10-win 
season with an overall 10-5 
record. 
Head coach Tracy Coyne was very pleased about the results of this season. "We've come a long way," she said. "We accomplished a lot this year and it was exciting to be on the bubble for the playoffs." 
On a sad note, the pro­gram also saw its first-ever recruiting class graduate. Standing out among the team is senior captain Lael O'Shaughnessy. the first­ever athlete to sign an Irish women's lacrosse letter of intent. 
The Irish had a success­ful spring break, unfazed by the defeat. They went on to earn six-straight victo­ries against Virginia Tech, Boston College, Harvard, Denver, and Ohio University. If there was one turning point of the season, it came against Harvard. For two years, the Irish came close to beating Harvard and thanks mostly to a strong game from senior Maura Doyle, they finally did on their third try. 
The sixth victory came against then 17th-ranked Delaware for their first ever victory against a ranked team. That same weekend, Vanderbilt ended 
· the school-record six-game win streak in a heartbreak­ing upset. 
The Irish once again bounced right back against the Huskies of Connecticut. In their second home game, the Irish played its most offensively explosive game. Sparked by three goals from sophomore Danielle Shearer in 41 seconds, the Irish won 19-5. 
The rest of the season went up and down for Notre Dame with two bright spots in the middle. 
· Facing three straight ranked teams, the Irish lost to Duke and next defeated then-No. 7 Yale. This marked the second win against a ranked team and first victory against a top 10 team. They then finished the stretch and opened their next homestand with the season's first home loss to Georgetown. The next two home games were solid vic­tories against rival Ohio 
State and Rutgers before 
falling to 11th-ranked 
Syracuse in New York. The 
Syracuse loss came despite 
a six-goal performance by 
Shearer. 
The Irish beat two of the six nationally-ranked teams they faced compared to zero in all previous years. In the inaugural season for Big East women's lacrosse, the Irish finished third with a 4-2 record. The team spent most of the year atop the standings with a 3-0 record before losing to Georgetown and Syracuse, who both finished ahead of the Irish. 
Most of this leadership came from O'Shaughnessy, who earned the team's MVP and was voted to the first team all-Big East as well as the all-regional first team. She led the team in assists with 52. 
She was joined on the all­Big East team by two juniors -Tina Fedarcyk and Alissa Moser. Fedarcyk, who joined O'Shaughnessy on the first team, led the Irish with 42 ground balls and 30 caused turnovers. 
Second team all-Big East honors went to Moser, who finished with record setting 40 draw controls. Junior captain Kathryn Lam joins O'Shaughnessy on the all­regional level. earning sec­ond team honors. 
MEN'S LACROSSE 
Irish to make second quarterfinal appearance 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Sports Writer 
The Irish have been here before but 
this time everything is different. 
The Notre Dame men's lacrosse team 
makes its second straight quarterfinals 
appearance Sunday when it takes on 
John Hopkins in College Park, Md. The 
game will be a rematch of last year's 
quarterfinals which the Blue Jays won 
15-11, but there are few similarities 
between the 2001 and 2000 versions of 
each team. 
To start with, the Irish aren't just happy to be in the quarterfinals this year. They expected to win their first round game against Bucknell. Last year the 12th-seeded Irish shocked the fifth-seeded Loyola Greyhounds in the first round. 
The joyous celebrations that followed the win against Loyola were noticeably absent after Notre Dame's 12-7 win again Bucknell. 
"After the game one of the fathers came up to me and said "Last year we celebrated like we had won the lot­tery,"' head coach Kevin Corrigan said. '"This year it was all business.' We aren't surprised to be here. We expect . to be here and we want to win this next game to get to the Final Four." 
While the Irish made a Cinderella­run in 2000, they have been solid all year in 2001. They ascended as high as No. 2 in the national rankings and never trailed at the end of regulation. Their lone blemish on their 13-1 record was an overtime loss to fell ow quarter­finalist Hofstra Pride. 
While its record and ranking are bet­
ter in 2001, Notre Dame returns eight 
starters -including all-time Irish 
assist leader David Ulrich -from the 
team that lost to Hopkins in last year's 
quarterfinals. Hopkins, however, is a 
much different team. 
The Blue Jays lost their goalkeeper, 
best midfielder and best attack from 
last year's semifinal team. 
..They are still an extremely talented team but they don't have two guys who were two of the very best players in the country and made them very, very tough to play against," Corrigan said. "It was very difficult to concentrate on both those guys on the offensive end."· 
Those two guys -first team All­Americans Dan Denihan and A.J. Hogan -dominated in the last meet­ing. Denihan accounted for eight points while Hogan controlled the midfield. This time around, the Blue Jays won't have the benefit of either player but they are still a talented bunch. 
Freshman Conor Ford has led the Blue Jay attack in the last three games with 13 goals in those contests. In the midfield, Hopkins features one of the toughest players in the country. Eric Wedin averages nearly 10 ground balls per game and wins 56.8 percent of his face-offs. Irish face-off specialist Chad DeBolt must force a draw with Wedin for the Irish to be successful. according to Corrigan. 
"He's got to beat him," Corrigan said. "What we really hope for is for us to get a draw. If we can't beat him out­right, he want to tie him up and see if we can turn it into a 3-on-3 ground ball and make some plays." 

CONGRATULATIONS 
LONDON PROGRAM STUDENTS 


in the 
Class of2001 


page 32 Friday, May 18, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS 
ronment. Athletics helped didn't hurt. Big East Tournament title -not in contention for their first-ever 
assuage her fears. Cook came to Saint Mary's as
Cook
Heilman 
"Sports has created an atmos­the youngest of six, all of whom onship. 
to mention a national champi• 
phere in my life where I'm busy played tennis. 
continued from page 44 
continued from page 44 
but I have a good time," she "There was a lot of competi­American -all as a freshman. Heilman. He's been an automatic 
-A lot of that is because of 
MIAA. Cook's 89.1 stroke aver­said. "They help us try to learn tion at home," Cook said. "Some age helped her team finish third. to play our best and most itnpor­of us got very competitive, espe­
"You'd think he dominates all win for Notre Dame whenever he This fall, Cook, an elementary tantly. it's an honest atmos­cially in high school. It was
the time, but he gets in jams," steps on the mound. Entering the Mainieri said. "The thing that Big East tournament, he holds a 
education major, could not par­phere. No one is out there play­always hard for my mom and sets him apart is that he has the perfect 13-0 record in 13 starts 
ticipate fully in golf because she ing just for herself." dad to know who to root for." was student teaching in the fall. The days when Cook will be After receiving a degree in ele­
ability to raise his game. this season; and 10 of those are "The great ones can do that." complete games. He broke Notre 
Loyal to her team, however, she playing college tennis may be mentarv education with an Over the course of his next two Dame records in wins and strike­
made any meets she could. over, but she won't ever let go of endorsement in kindergarten, seasons, Heilman didn't become outs. His ERA is hovering around 
For all the success that Cook her racket. With a background Cook will take the summer off to just great -he was nearly invin­the 1.50 mark. And he'll proba­
has brought to the Saint Mary's like Cook's, letting go just can't work at the Notre Dame Warren athletic department, sports at happen. Golf Course. 
cible. He struck out a Notre bly become the first Notre Dame Dame season-record 118 batters baseball player to earn All­
Saint Mary's have been even Since she was 10, Cook's par• She hopes to find a job at a in both 1999 and 2000. He was American honors four times. 
more important to Cook's suc­ents had been helping her with local elementary school in the named All-American for three "I think he goes down in histo­
cess at Saint Mary's. When she her tennis skills. Although she fall. Cook will move from shap­straight years. He pitched for ry as the greatest baseball player 
transferred in as a junior, she learned from a tennis pro at a ing a team into a champion to Team USA. He won 10 games in in the history of Notre Dame 
was worried she would have dif• local racket club, the tennis shaping the minds of a younger ficulty adjusting to her new envi-court in her parent's back yard generation.
a row. baseball," Mainieri said. 

Heilman had pitched in plenty But statistics don't set Heilman of memorial games. There was apart. Intangibles do. the 10-inning, 18-strikeout gem "He's the best pitcher in the against West Virginia. Or his history of the school, but you'd one-hitter against Villanova in never know it because he's so Notre Dame's 3,000th ever base­humble." Mainieri said. "He's ball game. Or his five innings just about the greatest leader against Miami where Heilman that I've ever been around, and gave up one hit en route to a 1-0 he does it so much by example." victory -the first time the When he's not pitching, Hurricanes had been shut out in Heilman is in the dugout sup­20 years. porting his teammates. And after 
,,
"Honestly, I don't know what a game, he'll help rake the pitch­.-. 
I I I
more I could have accom­ers' mound and get it ready for 1 plished," he said. the next game. By the time he was drafted by "When the other players on the the following students on their graduation from the the Minnesota Twins at the end team see the superstar doing ( '· 
.-,
University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College.
of his junior year. it seemed a those kid of things, then they foregone conclusion that realize there's not reason for Heilman would leave Notre them to be prima donnas," said Dame to compete professionally. Mainieri. "If Aaron Heilman isn't G?cwu~~~ 
~o/Qko&e Pl)Q/Jtte
"At the conclusion of our sea­a prima donna, nobody has the Erin K. Becker Andrew Benjamin Gregory Macke son, I honestly thought I was right to be." Melissa A. Bittner Frank Berzai Ryan Marten going to sign and that was it for But when Heilman steps on the Erin S. Blenk:e Laura Bond Lisa Martin HOLY me playing college baseball," mound, he becomes a different GinaM: Case Richard Buhrman Douglas McKenna CROSS Heilman said. person. Mainieri calls him "pos­Bridget M. Fisher Brian Colville Matthew McNeill COLLEGE

*

Julianne Gerchman 
But during the summer, sessed" and rarely goes out to Todd Contanza Kevin Murray Right for you. Right from the start. 
Jill E. Gregory
Heilman had second thoughts. the mound to talk to him because Michael Fanning Thomas Nichol 
P.O. Box 308
Jillian Koepke Corey Hartmann 
He wanted to earn his degree "he's not a very nice guy." In Jonathan Sanders Michelle McDonald Brendan Healy Charles Storch Notre Dame, IN 46556-0308
right away without having to between innings, Heilman sits in 
Mirella Siciliano Matthew Hutson Joshua Stowe 219-239-8400 • www.hcc-nd.edu
worry about coming back to take the dugout stone-faced and 
Christie VanKeuren George Irving Adam Tracey
classes in the off-season. Besides, silent. 
William Kloska Ted Wallach 
! 
contract negotiations weren't "Off the field he's the nicest moving very fast, and there were guy in the world," said Mainieri. major problems with the amount "But when he walks across that I I 
ofthe signing bonus-the Twins whlte line, it's like a whole differ­
I ! offered $900,000, but Heilman ent personality. It's all business
d was holding out for $1.4 million. with him, and that's what you And so Heilman -and Heilman love in a kid." 
alone -made the decision to Heilman's business still isn't 
; 
return to Notre Dame to finish finished. He wants to win a Big
!I 
his senior season. East Championship and pitch in "I knew that it had to be Aaron the College World Series. He'll
ii! 
m Heilman's decision," Mainieri most likely be Notre Dame's first H said. "I was very careful not to four-time All-American and is 
I 
I influence him one way or the projected to be drafted in the other. Nobody on our staff would first or second round this sum­have blamed Aaron for signing mer. last summer... "It's been a tremendous ride," 
"I talked to my family and he said. "I hope we've got a few some close friends," he said. "But more tokens left in the machine." what it all boiled down to was Regardless of how the Irish fin• that it was my decision. And Tm ish their season, Mainieri already very happy with the decision I recognizes the enormous influ­made." ence Heilman will have on the 

"There's no way Aaron would program even after he moves on. have come back unless he "Even though he'll be gone, his thought we were going to have legacy will be so strong that it's an outstanding team," Mainieri really a standard that he set for said. the players that are going to fol­
) I 
The Irish didn't let Heilman low him," Mainieri said. "When down. Notre Dame ascended to a he's finished at Notre Dame, he'll 
, 
No. 1 and earned the right to be gone, but he won't be forgot­
! I i host the NCAA Regional. They're ten, that's for sure." 
I r 
t 
t 
Ii~I 

Col'\9...-atulatiol'\s Ca+h...-yl'\1
II . 
'',·• 
I . 
Amy1 Col'\nie1 .Aileel'\1
f';
i<; 
" 
'¥.
;):' 
;~• 
Ryal'\1 Dial'1e1 Mil'1i1 
rn 
rn 
i~; ..­Leah, Gee+a aV\d Marie! 
j ,j 
Love, AV\V\e Marie 



Friday, May 18, 2001 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT pag~ 33 
* UBS Warburg 

UBS Warburg is pleased to welcome the best and brightest who've decided \vhere they belong. 
Full Time Hires 
Marybeth Briscoe Kristin Gaffud 
Congratulations on joining one of the fastest growing investment banks in the world. 
unlimited 
Global careers in www.ubswarburg.com investment banking 
UBS Warburg isa businets group of U65AG. In the U.S., se<:urities underwriting, trading and brokerage activities and M&A advisory activities are conducted by UBS W.vburg LLC. a wholly awned subsidiary of UBS AG lhatis a regisw-ed broker­dedler and a member of the New York Stodc ExdiM1ge and other princi~I exchanges and SIPC. !n the U.K., the>e service, .ve provided by UBS Warburg ltd., awholly owned subsidiary of USSAG thatisregulated in the U.K. by the SFA, to persons who are not private customers in the U.K. 

I 
,'\ 

page 34 Friday, May 18, 200 I
The Observer . SPORTS 
ROWING 
Irish rowers miss out on NCAA Championship regatta 
ByJEFF BALTRUZAK ~istant Sports Editor 
It will take two seconds to read this sentence. And two seconds was all that Irish rowing coach Martin Stone believes separated Notre Dame from a trip to its first NCAA Championship regatta. 
"We were the next varsity 8 they were going to take," said Stone, referring to the NCAA selections announced Tuesday. "I think if we had beaten Rutgers in the Big East we would have gone. We were out of it by two sec­onds." 
The Irish finished the 2001 season ranked No. 16 in the USRowing/Collegiate Coaches Rowing Association poll, with the Scarlet Knights checking in at No. 15. 
But to focus on being so close to making the NCAA finals would be an injustice to a season that, by all respects, was the finest in Notre Dame rowing's short histo­ry as a varsity program. 
To start, the program saw Notre Dame in the USRowing poll for the first time in school history on April 4, breaking in at No. 14. The ranking directly followed the first varsity eight's win over tra­ditional powerhouse Michigan State on Mar. 31, when the Irish beat the Spartans twice on a shortened 1200 meter course in East Lansing, Mich. 

As for the seniors that saw the program grow from a club sport to a fledgling varsity team to a nationally respected squad, this years' success was especially sweet. Captain coxswains Claire Bula and Erin Kiernicki. as well as rowers Melissa Alberding and Leah Ashe are the only four to have seen the program's seem­ingly exponential progression. 
"It's been an unbelievable transformation," said Bula. "I remember sophomore year when we didn't win a race and now this year I have all these medals on my wall." 
With Notre Dame long on youth and short on race experience, Stone found that the seniors' journey in building the program from the ground up was key toi their role this season. "They appreciate the strides
{ 
l 

we made," said Stone. "They 
I 
! 
' ' 
I 


kept the team upbeat, and had the ability to see where we had been." 
From the start of the season in 
the fall, Notre Dame's strides 
seemed to be more like leaps and 
bounds. Their first race of the fall 
season, the Chicago Chase on 
Oct. 7, saw Notre Dame secure 
three gold medals and a pair of 
silvers. 
The Irish's early success was indicator of things to come, but for Stone, evidence of the Irish's potential would come later in the fall season. 
"After the Head of the Elk, I knew there was a possibility [we would be ranked in the spring]," said Stone. 
But Notre Dame's best racing would come in mid-May. Both Stone and Bula -coxswain of the first varsity eight -agreed that the first varsity eight's best race was not their dual race with the Spartans but the semifinals of the Lexus Cup Central Region Championship on May 12. 
The Irish lined up with now 
well-known rival Michigan State, 
Ohio State, and Texas in the 
semifinal. Notre Dame has previ­
ously finished ahead of the 
Longhorns in two races at the 
San Diego Crew Classic April 8. 
"It was do or die," said Bula. 
"We needed to make the finals to 
have a chance at the NCAAs." 
Notre Dame responded in a ·race where Bula said "everything 
clicked." blazing to a 6:38.7 fin­
ish for the 2000-meter course, 
beating Texas and finishing just 
over two seconds behind the win­
ning Buckeyes. 
Stone shared Bula's senti­
ments. "It was pure speed. They 
put everything together," he said. 
Later in the day, the Irish fin­
ished fifth in the Grand Final, 
positioning them for a shot at the 
NCAA Championships. And 
though that shot didn't material­
ize thJS year, Stone sees benefits 
from this year's success and 
knowing that Notre Dame is 
within striking distance of the top 
competition in the country. 
..We raced against 10 of the top 
15 varsity teams. and we were 
them," he said. 
The Grand Final at the Central 
Championships would be the last 
race for the Irish rowers this sea-
Commence 
Videotapes are available! 
Commencement Commencement Mass ROTC Commissioning Law School Ceremony 
~1BNE~1BA Diploma 
Ceremony 
Architecture Graduation 
Order online at: http://www.nd.edu/~ solution 
Or contact: Office of Information Technologies 
University of Notre Dame ATTN: Solutions CenterNideotapes ~ii,· P.O. Box 539 Notre Dame, IN 46556-1088 
Or call 219.631.9335 

Graduates: No Matter Where You May Go, Or What Your Financial Needs May Be, 

We Will Always Be As Close As 
www.ndfcu.org 

\',\ 
219/239-6611 NOTRE DAME 800/522-6611 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You can bank on us
@ to be better 
lhUHIIU• 
LtNOER l ndcpendent of the University 

the standard for how the pro­gram will be, and be part of Notre Dame history being on the first women's rowing varsity team." 
son. Bula felt that though she wishes she could experience Notre Dame building on the foun­dation she and her fellow seniors help build, it was an unique 
experience to be part of the beginning. 
"In some ways I wish I could be there," said Bula. "But it's is a great feeling that we helped set 
Friday, May 18, 200I page_35
The Observer . SPORTS 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Belles bring home first MIAA championship 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 
A small but lively crowd greeted the Saint Mary's tennis team on a May 7-a night when most students were 
studying for finals. The 15 mem­bers of the tennis team 
were  all  
smiles  as  
t  h  e  y  

entered an 

A n g e 1 a Knish 
Athletic Facility rally held in their honor to accept the first ever Saint Mary's MIAA title. 
By a margin of five points, the Belles defeated defending champion Hope College and brought home the MIAA women's tennis conference championship. 
"I am extremely proud and I still can't believe we accom­plished that," junior co-captain Annie Knish said. "Coach promised me we would have a conference championship before I graduated and I never believed him until the tourna­ment." 
The seven players who trav­eled to Kalamazoo, Mich. each came home with a medal as the Belles claimed four singles titles and two doubles titles, along with one third place fin­ish each at singles and doubles. 
"The hard work [the team] put into tennis all year. the work in the winter when they went six or seven weeks with­out playing anyone but each other, that hard work at that point when they played the matches really paid off," head coach Dee Stevenson said. 
The doubles teams were the foundation of the Saint Mary's team this season, and proved to be so again during the MIAA tournament. All three teams took home a medal. 
"I'm very proud of them," Knish said. "They worked together and made great improvements over the sea­son." 
Senior Natalie Cook and junior Annie Knish led the dou­bles with a No. 1 doubles championship. Cook also claimed a third place finish in No. 2 singles. 
Hope, a familiar adversary, was the final obstacle for the team of Knish and Cook. The Flying Dutch defeated the Albion team that was Saint Mary's No. 1 double's only loss all season before facing off against the Belles. It was a close match, but Knish and Cook came out on top in three sets, 6-4, 5-7, 6-2. 
"[Natalie] and Annie winning No. 1 doubles when few people thought they could was a big inspiration," Stevenson said. 
"We had to win every [champi­championship. They remained onship] match. including the undefeated in the MIAA, clean­one they did, to win the tourna­ing up a Hope team with a two ment." set victory (6-4, 6-3). The team 
The Knish-Cook team, which dropped only one set in its was defeated only once in con­climb to the championship, los­ference play this season, took ing set two to Albion 6-2. an easy first round win on the Freshmen Jeannie Knish and way to the championship, Kaitlin Cutler wrapped up solid defeating Alma 6-1, 6-0. doubles play with a third place 
In the semifinal round, Knish finish in No. 2 doubles after and Cook faced off against a losing to Calvin in the semi­Calvin team that appeared to finals. A solid two set (6-0,6-0) be an easy target. They took victory against Alma in the the first set 6-3, but Calvin consolation round claimed the came back to take a 6-4 victory third place finish. in set two, tying up the match. It was the Saint Mary's fresh­
Cook and Knish were not men who ruled the courts in willing to leave Kalamazoo singles play. All three women 
without  a  playing  their  
champi­onship, and came  "Coach promised me we would have a  first year of col­lege tennis came home with  
back claim solid  to a 6-1  championship before I graduated and I never  a championship. "I have to give a lot of credit to  
victory in  believed him until the  the  freshmen  
set three, guarantee­ tournament. ..  who came [this season]." Annie  
ing them a  Knish  said.  
spot in the  Annie Knish  "They added a  
champi­onship.  captain  lot to our team." Kaitlin Cutler  
"  T  h  e  finished  off  a  

combination of being focused perfect season with a perfect and having a goal, along with final tournament. Cutler, who having a good time as friends had not lost one set in MIAA and partners was what helped play all season, continued that us win that championship," impressive record at the Knish said. Kalamazoo tournament. 
The No. 3 doubles team of She claimed the No. 4 singles sophomores Elisa Ryan and championship in six sets, giving Trisha Jones also took home a up a total of four points. Hope's Jennifer Coleman took only two points in the second set of the championship round as Cutter defeated her in two sets. 
Joining Cutler as freshman champions were Jeannie Knish at No. 3 singles and Kris Spriggle at No. 5 singles. Knish took the championship round from Calvin, winning in two sets (6-2, 6-2). Spriggle wrapped up an undefeated sea­son with a two set victory in the championship round (6-1, 6-0) against Albion's Kristen Roskam. 
Ryan completed singles wins with a No. 6 singles victory. defeating her opponents by no less than five points in each set. A final two set victory (6-1, 6-0) against Hope's Dee Clouse wrapped up the sophomore's first No. 6 singles victory. 
Annie Knish and Cook made first team All-MIAA while Jeannie Knish and Cutler found themselves on All-MIAA second team. Topping off the weekend tournament was the presenta­tion of the Sue Little Sportsmanship Award to Cook. 
Athletic director Lynn Kachmarik led the rally to wel­come home the team. She pre­sented each player with her championship medal and con­gratulated all 15 who have been supporting the varsity team. 
Cook is the only graduating senior as a strong team returns for the 2002 season. 
FROM THE OFFICE OF RESIDENCE LIFE Congratulations And Good Luck To The Following Hall Stace Members 
Sr. Kathleen Beatty, SSJ-Lyons Hall 
Sarah Bassler-Walsh Hall Kathleen Brannock-McGlinn Hall Joe Birmingham-Stanford Hall John Brust-Keough Hall David Kelly Cox-Pasquerilla East Hall Erik Goldschmidt-St. Edward's Hall Erin Kennedy-Fischer Graduate Res. Qiana Lillard-Badin Hall 
Ometeotl Acosta-Stanford Hall Sarah Affieck-Graves-Badin Hall Christopher Anderson-Keough Hall Charles Ashbrook-Keenan Hall Catherine Balhoff-Howard Hall John Barber-Keough Hall Aileen Barry-Walsh Hall Melissa Beiting-Wa]sh Hall Nathan Blazei-S:iegfried Hall Jaclyn Bonaguro-Lyons Hall Jill Borchardt-Howard Hall Emily Borg-Howard Hall Jillian Boroniec-Lyons Hall Casey Bouton-Keough HalJ Emily Brill-Welsh Family Hall Daniel Brosmer-Morrissey Manor 
. Elizabeth Buescher-Lewis Hall Meagan Burton-Pasquerilla West Bystedt, Christopher Zahm Hall Michael Campbell-Sorin Hall Julie Carbal-Pangborn Hall Ann Manuszak-Welsh Family Hall Adam Martzke-Keenan Hall Peter McCall-Stanford Hall Meaghan McCarthy-Farley Hall Kel1y McCluskey-Farley Ha11 Casey McCluskey-Pangborn Hall Anne McDermott-McGlinn Hall Alison McElroy-Badin HalJ Jeanette McKenna-Cavanaugh HaU Chadwick McTighe-O'Neill Hall Carlos Meade-Keenan Hall 
As They Leave Their Positions 

RECTORS 
Sr. Anne Dougherty, OSF-Howard Hall Rev. Thomas Doyle, CSC-Keough Hall Sean Seymore-Sorin Hall 
ASSISTANT RECTORS 
Tim McFadden-O'Neill Hall  Megan Shepherd-Breen Phillips Hall  
Rudy Monterrosa-Siegfried Hall  Beth Stef'f"es-Fischer Graduate Res.  
Brian Mullally-Knott Hall  Tracy VanMeter-Pasqucrilla West Hall  
Omar Munoz-Dillon Hall  Mike Warbel-Morrissey Hall  
Sean O'Brien-Carroll Hall  Laura Weiler-Lewis Hall  
Kristen O'Connor-Lewis Hal1  Anne-Marie Wieland-Lyons Hall  
David O'Guinn-Fisher Hall  
Mark Ross-Zahm Ha]l  
RESIDENT ASSISTANTS  

Christina Million Passe-Pasquerilla W. Judson Penton-St. Edward's Hall 
Ellen Mills-Pasquerilla East Robert Miske-O'Neill Hall Gina Moody-Pasquerilla East Lauren Murphy-McGlinn Hall Cathryn O'Connell-McGlinn Hall Patrick O'Donnell-Carroll Hall Shaun O'Donnell-Morrissey Manor Juvencio Perez-Stanford Hall Brett Perkins-Keough Hall Benjamin Perossa-O'Neill Hall Anthony Perri-Fisher Hall Nick Petroni, Jr.-Keough :Hall Heather Phillips-Pasquerilla East Molly Poscdel-Cavanaugh Hall William Carlos III-O'Neill Hall Jennifer Geraci-Farley Hall Dominic Caruso-O'Neill Hall Matthew Giefer-Keenan Hall Robert Cha.tnbers-Stanrord Hall Jamie Glasser-McGlinn Ha11 Tiana Checchia-Farley Hall Andrea Gonzalez-Pasquerilla West 
Jessica Cicha1ski-Lyons Hall Geoffrey Goode-St. Edward's Hall Justin Calarco-Morrissey Manor Abigail Gottschalk-Lyons Hall Catherine Cook-Farley Hall Matthew Graziano-Carroll Hall Diane Cormier-Lewis Hall Timothy Greene-St. Edward's Hall Shannon Couture-Breen-Phillips Hall Matthew Griffith-Alumni Hall Anastasia Craft-Lewis Hall Marton Gyulai-K.nott Hall James Crinion ill-Dillon Hall Katie Hainley-Welsh Family Hall Travis Davey-Knott Hall Maura Halbach-Lewis Hall Ryan Dick-Keenan Hall Michael Hannigan-Knott Hall Jessica Dingman-Breen-Phillips Hall Huntley Hanover-St. Edward's Hall Steven Doherty-Fisher Hall Thomas Herman-Zahm Hall Lauren Esposito-Howard Hall Jeremy Herzog-Keough Hall Michael Fanning-Alumni Hall Ryan Hodge-Zahm Hall 
Kathleen Fanning-Cavanaugh Hall Erin Fischer-Pasquerilla East Erica Freeburg-Farley Hall Danielle Gabriel-Welsh Family Hall Thomas Ogorzalek-Siegfried Hall KeJly O'Hagan-Lyons Hall Erin O'Leary-Pangborn Hall Andrew Olejnik-Knott Hall Gerard Olinger-Morrissey Manor Christopher O'Malley-Alumni Hall Claire Oravec-Pasquerilla West Nicholas Otto-Sorin Hall Nicolas Pacelli-Siegfried Hall Jennifer Pavela-Cavanaugh Hall Michael Pedhirney-Dillon Hall 
Charles Holden-Corbett-Keenan Hall Valerie Holsinger-Walsh Hall All?n Huebner-Alumni Hall Eileen Huie-Farley Hall Meredith Profeta-Lewis Hall Mari Pyle-Lewis Hall Geoffrey Rahie-Dillon Hall Katie Rak-Welsh Family Hall Angela Rausch-Badin HaJl Melissa Anne Reilly-Br.Phillips Margaret Remstad-McGlinn Hall Joseph Ribando-Zahm Hall Michael Riley-Fisher I-iall Maureen Rodgers-Welsh Frun. Hall Patrick Ruder-Knott Hall Edward Ryan-Zahm Hall Richard Salinas-Sorin Hall David Schwartz-O'Neill Hall Gregory Sech-Keough Ha11 Paul Sepe-Morrissey Manor Shawn Sheridan-Morrissey Manor Arthur Silva-Morrissey Manor Patricia Simone-Walsh Hall 
Jetfrey Hurd-O'NeiJI Hall Daniel Johnston-Dillon Hall Amy Jongeling-Lewis Hall Michael Kassing-Keenan Hall Catherine Kearnc-y-Pasquerilla West Colleen Kerwin-Cavanaugh Hall Gregory Koch-Morrissey Manor Matthew Koop-Carroll Hall Keith Kowalczyk-Sorin Hall Carly Krnm-Welsh Family Hall Timothy Kuhn-Siegfried Hall Nicholas Lagoni-Fisher Hall Jakub Langer-Siegfried Ha11 Bethany Lanzafame-Br.Phillips Hall David Laurel-Alumni Hall Jason Linster-Dillon Hall Joseph Lomangino-Dillon Hall James Lyden-St. Edward's Hall Mary Lyons-Pangborn Hall Rebekah Madrid-Lyons Hall Patrick Maloney-Knott Hall Joseph Steirer, Jr.-Dillon Hall Mary Beth Stryker-Br.PhiJlips Hall Bridie Sullivan-Pasquerilla East Brian Szakaly-Siegfried Ha11 Bridget Tomes-Cavanaugh Hall Lynn Vichick-Cav_anaugh Hall 
Liza Villaruz-Pasquerilla East Jason Visner-Dillon Hall Sarah Wagner-Pangborn Hall Vern Walker-Zahm Hall Celeste Warda-McGiinn Hall James Weedon-Alumni Hall Carolyn Weir-Breen-Phillips Hall Alison Weltner-McGlinn Hall Justin Westervelt-Fisher Hall Karen Wiener-PasquerilJa West Sarah Wittliff-Lewis Hall James Yannakopoulos-Keenan Hall Matthew Yung-Dillon Hall Albert ZangrilJi-Stanford Hall Brian Zant-Zahm Ha11 
I i I i I i l 
l I 
j 
I 
l 
1 
j l 
1 
l l I I I 
i 1 
l 

Friday, May 18, 2001 
page 36 The Observer . SPORTS 
FOOTBALL 
Season-ending bowl loss taints successful season 


Congratulations Math Majors. You've done a great job! 
Sarni Assaf Daniel Bennett  Rachel Riley Kathleen Rimkus  
Bridget Coleman Brooke Davis Andrew Dempsey Margaret Foltz Maureen Guilfoyle Maura Halbach Matthew Hedden Matthew Johnson  Anthony Rizzuti Bradford Rodrigues Michelle Rubner Paul Sepe Kate Simpson Gregory Smith Kimberly Spayd David Swinarski  
Mitchell Karam  Linda Thierauf  
Mark Luczak  Lisa Thomas  
Christopher McGee Meghan McIntyre Robert Miske Michael Munn  Bridget Tomes Kenneth Traugott Christine Veliky Jennifer Weaver  
Timothy Muething Erin O'Connor Kathleen Parks  Brigette Wolf Ryan Yorkery Steven Zusman  
Katherine Rakowski  


*coryorate Accounts *Weddi¥JS *Showers *Birthdays *Theme Baskets *Graduations Destgned to your syec~cattons call us 7 days aweek 
Free local delivery -shtyyi¥3 available (219) 674-0703 
10% offfor Notre Dame students 
ByTIMCASEY Senior Staff Writer 
One night. That's how long it took for the 2000 football cam­paign to change from being termed a surprising success to being treat­ed as another Bob Davie-led fail­ure. It all "came apart,' on Jan. 1. in front of a national television audience when Oregon State destroyed Notre Dame 41-9 in the Fiesta Bowl. 
"It's pretty obvious we got whipped," Davie said at the time. "We were out coached and out­played. We got our butts kicked." 
Hard to believe six weeks earlier, Davie, for perhaps the first time in his four-year career. captured a sliver of sympathy from the Notre Dame nation. A 38-21 win against USC in Los Angeles capped a 9-2 regular season and virtually clinched a Bowl Championship 
" Series-bowl berth. After the game, even some of Davie's harshest crit­ics gave "Bullet Bob" partial credit for the Notre Dame seven-game winning streak. So here's where Davie stands today, as he prepares for his fifth year at the helm: a coach who signed a new five-year contract on Dec. 5 but also a man who under­stands that nothing is guaranteed. Truth is, he (and his players} will be judged every day for the rest of his Notre Dame career. And during this past year, the Irish received mixed reviews. Never was that more apparent than in the season's second game, against Nebraska on Sept. 9. Less than a year after an NCAA major violation, a 5-7 season and an unflattering Sports Illustrated story, the Irish were on the verge of upsetting the nation's top team. Notre Dame had a first down with 
1:07 left in the game and the score tied 21-21. But the Irish opted for 
overtime and lost 27-24 when quarterback Eric Crouch ran seven yards for the winning score. 
The near-upset showed the first glimpse of the Irish talent. It also came at a price, both physically and emotionally. Prior to kickoff, the Stadium looked like a Nebraska home game. The Cornhuskers' fans apparently scalped thousands of tickets and showed up in their customary red attire. The "Sea of Red" confirmed for some that Notre Dame football had lost its luster. 
Although that perception cannot be proven, the post-game reality can. Both quarterback Arnaz Battle and defensive end Grant Irons suffered season-ending injuries during the contest. Now, a 1-1 Irish squad faced the rest of the schedule with a quarterback who had never played in a college game. 
But who was the signal caller? Within days, former tight end Gary Godsey was named the starter. The 6-foot-7 235 pound sopho­more led the Irish to a 23-21 win the next weekend against Purdue. His numbers (14-of-25 for 158 yards with one interception) were decent but by early October. Godsey had been relegated to a back-up role. 
One week later, Godsey complet­ed only 4-of-15 passes for 20 yards in a 27-21 loss at Michigan State, and alternated in the second half with freshman Matt LoVecchio. 
LoVecchio, one of three fresh­men quarterbacks, took over the reins for good starting with the Oct. 7 Stanford tilt. 
"I had no idea [I would play so soon]," Lovecchio said on Oct.4, the day he was announced as the starter. "I still don't know what's going to happen." 
Neither did anyone else. But it became apparent that LoVecchio was not your typical 18-year old. 
Against the Cardinal, the Franklin Lakes, N.J. native passed for two touchdowns and 100 yards and helped Notre Dame (3-2 on the season) to a 20-14 victory. 
Only one of the six remaining games was decided by less than 12 points -a 34-31 near-defeat to Air Force. With two seconds remaining, Dave Adams, the Falcons place kicker, lined up for a potential game-winning 28-yard field goal. But Notre Dame sopho­more Glenn Earl blocked Adams· attempt, forcing overtime. Joey Getherall's nine-yard touchdown run on a "Z-reverse" sealed the lrish's sixth victory and kept their BCS chances alive. 
On Dec. 2, after November victo­ries against Boston College, Rutgers and USC, the Irish were officially announced as Fiesta Bowl participants. And within three days Davie received the contract exten­sion. 
"The head coaching position at 
Notre Dame is the most visible, and 
,. 
Freshman quarterback Matt LoVecchio (above) filled the role of signal caller and helped lead the Irish to the Fiesta Bowl. The Irish fell to Oregon State in the bowl game, ending a successful season. 
. 
photos by 
PETER RICHARDSON 
and two interceptions) to panic. Suddenly, the win streak meant virtually nothing. 
"I've never been a part of some­thing like that," cornerback Brock Williams said after the game. "This is the worst loss I've been a part of. It's hard, man. I don't want to criti­cize anyone but overall we need a lot of work.,. 
from that perspective, the most demanding in the country," White said in a prepared statement. "Bob has grown and learned a great deal during his four yea~ in the job and has demonstrated to me not only that he is a very good foot­ball coach, but also that he has the respect and confidence of his play­ers and staff". 
Then came the bowl game. One month of anticipation turned into three hours of frustration. From the opening whistle, Oregon State dominated Notre Dame. The Beavers gained twice as many yards (475 to 237), scored 29 unanswered third quarter points, and forced the normally efficient Lovecchio (13-of-33 for 138 yards Friday, May 18, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 37 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Inglesby, Murphy spark Irish to regular season success 
among the top 10 in the nation By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN with 6.4 assists per game, along Senior Staff Writer with a Big East-best 3.16 assist­to-turnover ratio. He also hit a Every year during the last game-winning shot against con­decade, the Notre Dame men's ference rival Boston College to 
basketball program found itself put Notre Dame ahead for good 
76-75.
on the outside looking in at an 
exclusive party -March "From day one, I knew that this Madness. This year, the Irish was my team and I was going to earned themselves an invitation be. th.~ ~oint guard," Ingelsby 
to the NCAA Tournament. said. With me and Murph being Sparked to success by senior named captains, that really 
point guard Martin Ingelsby and helped out. just trying to lead this junior All-American Troy team to the NCAA Tournament. Murphy, the 20-10 Irish That was our goal from day one 
this year." 
advanced to the second round of A season ago, the Irish were
the tourney for the first time 
NIT runners-up. Not content with since 1989, where they lost to the Not In Tournament status thisOle Miss Rebels 59-56. 
Notre Dame also won its first year, the Irish took their game to 
the next level. 
league championship since join­Murphy repeated as a first­ing the Big East, with an 11-5 team All-American and Big Eastconference record good enough Player of the Year. The 6-foot-11 for the West Division title. 
forward scored 21.8 points per"That was one of our goals, to 
game and pulled down 9.2
win the Big East regular season, rebounds.
and we did it," Inglesby said. 
Joining Murphy in frontcourtAlong the way. the Irish dominance was junior transferknocked off a host of ranked foes, Ryan Humphrey. a 6-8 bundle of rose to the top 10 in the national 
energy who rattled the Joycepolls. went on an eight-game 
Center with his backboard-shak­winning streak in the conference ing dunks, 14 points and nineand beat Xavier in the first round 
rebounds per contest. Harold
of the NCAA Tournament. 
Swanagan, also a junior forward, 
The transition to success 
played well in both a starting role wasn't the only one the Irish or as a sixth man, doing the little 
made in 2000-01. They also 
things that helped the team get to adjusted to yet another coach, as the tournament. 
Mike Brey moved in after Matt 
The other clutch performers
Doherty's one-year tenure at 
for Notre Dame this year were
Notre Dame ended. 
or reserve. 
sophomore shooting guard Matt
Once Brey took over, he went The next question for the Irish
Carroll and junior small forward 
to work winning over the current is whether they can match this
David Graves. Carroll jumped up 
players. First up was Ingelsby, year's success in 2001-02, having 
his scoring average to 12.4 points 
the lone starting senior and a 
lost Ingelsby and reserve Hans
per game and became a better
player who started his first two Rasmussen to graduation and
all-around player. Graves scored
seasons before sliding into a Murphy to the upcoming NBA
nearly 14 points a contest and
reserve role for Doherty. Brey Draft.
learned to adjust to any role the
made him a captain, and 
..I like the experience we have
team needed him in, be it starter
Ingelsby responded, averaging coming back," said Brey, "even though we lost a heck of a play­er." 

Although they lose the two team captains, the Irish return the brunt of their scoring and core of their starting lineup in Carroll, Graves, Humphrey and Swanagan. Freshman guard Torrian Jones will be expected to build on his minutes from this season, as will reserve forwards Jere Macura and Tom Timmermans. Walk-on Chuck Thomas will also be back. 
New to the Irish lineup will be Chris Markwood, a freshman who redshirte~ after l!_aving knee 
The Notre Dame Chapter of 
Phi Beta Kappa 
Congratulations, Kevin Green! 
Finally, Something you CAN smile about as you complete "our'' Notre Dame family. 
Love, Dad (B.S. '65, M.S. '67), Mom (M.A. '67), Erin (B.B.A. '97), Brian (B.B.A. '99) 
surgery, and recruits Chris Thomas and Jordan Cornette. 
Thomas, a McDonald's All­American who led Indianapolis Pike High School to the state championship, is slated to take over the point guard duties, while Cornette will see time at the for­ward position. 
The departed members of the Irish await their fates. Murphy will learn where his new home when the draft is held June 27. lngelsby hopes to either continue his playing career or move to the sidelines as a coach at the college level. and Rasmussen would like to stay on the court. 
Congratulates And Welcomes Its New Members From The Class Of 2001 
\  
Ingrid Anderson  Sarah Haight  
Charles Ashbrook  Katherine Harcourt  .'5.i,~  
Sarni Assaf  Amy Harpole  
Mathew Baggetta  Jenifer Hayob  
Anna Benjamin  Matthew Hedden  
Michael Blaha  Michael Heinz  
Timothy Bodony  Steven Hemkens  
Zachary Bray  Margaret Hess  
Liam Brennan  Dawn Holicky  
Rachel Bundick  Rachel Hopf  
Collin Burkart  Kate Huetteman  
Matthew Caccamo  Jessica Hanley Jenks  
Karen Callan  Amy Jongeling  
Robert Cellini  Jakub Langer  
James Chisholm  William Lauinger  
Jessica Cichalski  Elizabeth Leliaert  
Joseph Clamon  Carrie Marshall  
Priscilla Clements  Daniel Matejek  
Patrick Cloud  Kevin McManus  
Meghan Cokeley  Ellen Mills  
Shannon Couture  Dory Mitros  
Erin Cowell  Joseph Napolitano  
Christina Denman  Michael Naumann  
Christopher Dillon  Lynne Noelke  
Paul Dougherty  Thomas O'Brien  
Joseph Doyle  Brian O'Donoghue  
Michael Enyeart  Kelly O'Hagan  
Scott Ford  Andrew Olejnik  
Andrea Formolo  Kyle Owens  
Susan Gloss  James Pastore, Jr.  
Shannon Goodwin  Michael Pedhimey  

Anthony Polcari Sarah Polito Michelle Pribbemow Katherine Rakowski Anne Ralph Jennifer Randall Megan Rector David Remus Thomas Repetto Robert Ridenour III Christopher Ripple Maureen Rodgers Andrea Shatzel Patricia Simone Mary Simonis Kate Simpson Matthew Stanwix Daniel Storino Alena Stransky David Swinarski Chad Sylvester Caroline Travalia Carolyn Weir Terrence Welch Jennifer Wellman Karen Wiener John Wilson James Wrzosek Daniel Zach KaraZuaro Kristina Zurcher 

Friday, May 18, 2001
page 38 The Observer . SPORTS 
FALL SPORTS 
Teams face highs and lows in fall season 

awesome season next year." senior Genny Yavello and sopho­
Observer Staff Report 
Bobby Johnston will replace more Megan Tenney -in 75th Milligan who resigned at the end and 7 2nd place respectively in
Notre Dame Men's Soccer 
of the season. Johnston, who the MIAA final race.
It was a season of recovery hails from Washington D.C., will Despite a weak running finish, and regret for the Irish men's
l be coming to Saint Mary's after Saint Mary's did make news in
I soccer team this fall. 
I ) 
coaching high school soccer at the MIAA cross country world. 
.\ At first glance, fans may simply 
/ ) Potomac High School. The college hosted the annual 
I see a team with a 7-8-2 record 
I -Katie McVoy MIM Jamboree for the first time 
that failed to qualify for the Big
I in its history in late September,
East Tournament. Upon closer
i bringing all eight MIAA teams to
investigation, however, one finds Notre Dame Cross Country campus.
out how much this team had to Not even a season off by top 
-Katie McVoy 
overcome just to take the field. runner and All·American Ryan 
One morning last January, Shay could keep the Irish men's Irish head coach Mike Berticelli cross country team out of the Notre Dame Volleyball suddenly suffered a fatal heart nation's elite, as Notre Dame The Irish volleyball team con­attack at age 48. Thirty-year old placed ninth in the NCAA tinued its Big East conference assistant coach Chris Apple took Championships. dominance in 2000, posting a over soon after on an interim Shay sat out the season after a 26-7 record and winning its fifth basis. summer of heavy training for the Big East regular season and Big 
From the start of the season, U.S. Olympic Trials. His team­East championship titles. the Irish exhibited a strong mates picked up the slack. It was the first time since 1997 defense, but an inability to close Not only did head coach Joe the squad won both in the same the game on offense. Piane's squad snag its sixth top-year. The Irish swept through 
The Irish opened with a win 10 finish at nationals in nine· the Big East tournament with 3­against New Mexico and a score­years, the Irish placed fourth in 0 victories against Connecticut less tie against host UNLV at the the Big East Championships and and Rutgers. Denise Boylan UNLV FILA/Snickers Rebel captured several meet titles. earned Big East player of the Classic. In their first home game, "I thought we could [qualify for year honors as well as most out­the Irish fell 3-1 to then No. 26 nationals]." Piane said, "but it standing player of the tourna­Bradley despite outshooting the doesn't matter what I think. It's ment. Braves 26-7. what the kids think." Notre Dame continued the hot 
That trend continued through "The kids" had their minds set streak with a three-game win the season, culminating in highs on success. Junior Luke Watson against Cincinnati in the first 
we were ecstatic," Butcko said. years with the program," headsuch as a victory against a finished in the top 10 in every round of the NCAA tournament, "We had to fight hard and it gave coach Ross Smith said. "To winranked St. John's squad and a meet of the season, including a before falling in the second us a lot of that energy. It was one three tournaments was great.
close 1-0 loss to Connecticut. seventh-place All-American fin­round to Ohio State. In that con­of the high points. The team Shane Smith has been a three"I think the fact that we com­ish· at nationals. Two other test, the Irish dropped a five­really pulled together." year starter and our No. 1 playerpeted so well against top teams juniors, Pat Conway and Marc game heartbreaker losing the Another high came late in the for two years.
shows a lot about our team," Striowski, were the second and final game by only two points, season when the Belles pulled "She had a very good careersaid senior forward Reggie third runners for Notre Dame. 13-15. 
out a big victory at the Albion and will continue with golf play­McKnight. "I think our team dis­With only Sean Zanderson slat­"Winning the Big East was Triangular with wins against ing futures next year. Danielle playe d a lot of character at ed to graduate and Shay return­huge," said senior first team All Albion and Kenyon Colleges to Villarosa's performance in thattimes." ing to the lineup, the Irish are Big East outside hitter Christi round out the regular season. last tournament was great. I hateAt the same time, McKnight poised for a run at the title in Girton. "It was a goal of ours this The Belles didn't fare so well to say one performance won it-thinks that his team's experience 2001. year to dominate the Big East in the MIAA tournament, howev­with five golfers playing on awill benefit each athlete. On the women's side, a young again, since it was the first time er. The squad suffered a tough team, but her play put us over , "I think a good mark of a team team missed a return trip to since my freshman year we won loss to a 27-8 Calvin squad (3· 15, the edge to win the last one at ,t and individual people is how nationals, both the regular · 5-15. 4-15). Illinois." 
I they deal with adversity." placing season and tour­
"J think the mark ofa -Kerry Smith -Brian Burke 
McKnight said. "We had to deal eighth at nament in the f with a· lot of adversity and a lot the Great good team and individual same year. 
of things maybe a lot of people L a k e s people is how they deal "The NCAAs was Notre Dame Men's Golf Saint Mary's Golf outside the team don't even Regional disappointing The men's golf team finished A stormy start to the MIAA
with adversity ...
know about." meet. because we were fifth at the Big East season ended sunny as the Saint 
Former Stanford head coach "It's so close, and we Championships while junior Mary's golf team wrapped up its Bobby Clark was hired to replace always Reggie McKnight had a goal to reach Steve Ratay finished in a three­season with a strong finish in the Apple in early February. hard not to the Sweet 16." way tie for first place with a 54 conference tournament. 
soccer forward 
-Noah Amstadter get your -Brian Burke hole total of 215. Sophomore Senior Kyle Veltri led the goal," said Kyle Monfort tied for the best Belles to second place finish in final round with a one-under-par the tournament with a third
Saint Mary's Soccer senior Chrissy Kuenster. 
Saint Mary's Volleyball 
69, while senior Alex Kent fin­place individual finish. 
It was a season filled with Kuenster was the only senior 
Returning no starters from the 
ished in a tie for 17th overall The 2000 season kicked off oninjury for the Saint Mary's soccer on the Irish varsity squad, which 1999 season and facing the chal­with a score of 28. a day when the weather hadteam as the Belles landed in sev-graduated two All-Americans the lenge of bonding with a new ... "Steve Ratay did a fantastic other things in mind. The tour­enth place in the MIAA with a year before. Sophomore Jen coaching staff, the Saint Mary's job," said head coach George nament the Belles hosted atrecord of 3-13. Handley led the Irish most of the 
volleyball team tempered its sev­
J 
The loss of leading scorer year, followed by Kuenster. enth place conference standing Thomas. "We got off to a Brookwood Golf Course fell prey 
mediocre start this year, and to thunderstorms that ended the
I 
Heather Muth to a season ending A slate of young runners 
and 7-22 record with individual
I 
head injury wrapped up an that set the tone, where I did not tournament prematurely and left
rounded out the Irish varsity 
and team improvements as the 
think we performed as well as I the scores unrecorded.
unhealthy season for second-team. Junior Hilary Burn, sopho­
2000 season progressed. 
had hoped. I was pleased with The Belles spent the entire
f 
year head coach Jason Milligan. mores Kari Eaton and Muffy "It didn't look like we did much 
I 
our third place finish at Kent season battling with the FlyingThe loss added another hole to Schmidt, and freshmen Rachel as far as wins and losses go but
f j State. I'm very optimistic for next Dutch of Hope College. After it
an already weak team due the EndresS, Megan Johnson and we had to make the transition to year. I expect the freshmen and became clear that Albion wouldloss of sweepers Jessica Klink Jen Fibuch all took turns on a whole new team," lone senior sophomore's to take over with take home a first place finish inand Alissa Brasseur and fresh-Notre Dame's varsity. Victoria Butcko. "It was a build­Ratay who has been the nucleus almost every meet, the Bellesman Emily Erchick early in the .. -Kathleen O'Brien ing year for the team. I think we of this team." and the Flying Dutch teed off for season. did outstanding considering we 

-Bryan Burke second place. Five out of the
An opening season win against Saint Mary's Cross Country were so young." 
seven times the two teams facedAlma seemed to be a good omen The Saint Mary's cross country Inexperience took its toll early off, Saint Mary's came out victo­for the young team, but it proved team didn't go the distance quite as first-year head coach Julie Notre Dame Women's Golf rious. But it was an overall low to be one of only three wins and fast enough this season to Schroder-Biek struggled to find The Notre Dame women's golf · team score that left the Flyingone tie. The Belles squashed the improve on its performance last the right mixture of players and team made huge strides this sea­Dutch with the second place fin­Bulldogs of Adrian twice, allow­season, remaining in seventh positions. son, winning three tournaments, 
than two
ing them to avoid a last place fin­place in the MIAA for the second "We had a lot of losses but we a single season school record. ish by little more 
strokes -a team average of
ish. year in a row. tried to stay positive." Butcko The first win came at the Notre 360.3 compared to Saint Mary'sDespite a final loss, Saint Under the direction of return­said. "We did a lot of things on Dame Invitational in October, fol­362.1.
Mary's ended its season on a ing head coach Dave Barstis, the and off the court to stick togeth­lowed by the William and Mary Veltri ended her senior seasonpositive note. The Belles reached Belles goals did not include a er." Invitational and Illinois with a personal victory. Sheovertime play with the Flying high finish in the MIAA. They Despite a slew tough oppo­Invitational in the spring. 
placed individually in the MIAADutch of Hope who finished fifth were looking only to run their nents and hard losses, the team In the last win, senior Shane top 15 and earned a spot on thein_ the MIAA. Despite losing the best races. did enjoy some highs along the Smith finished in a tie for third All-MIAA second team alonggame, the Belles saw the win as "My expectations are to have bumpy road of a tough season. with freshman teammate with freshman Jennifer DeWitt. 
a step in the right direction for everyone run their best time," One of the highs came midsea­Shannon Byrne with 36 hole "It was a lot of work leading up next season. Barstis said. "All I ask is that son with a five-match win over scores of 153. Senior Danielle to the season, a lot of prepara­"We're basically going to have they cross the finish line and be Manchester Sept. 21. Suffering Villarosa had the best finish of 
tion," Veltri said. "So I was
the same team next year," fresh­able to tell me they ran the best with a discouraging 1-9 record, her career shooting 156, which delighted to see it turn out the man Wendy Irvin said. "If we they could." the win gave the team a much was good for seventh place. 
way it did." 
pick up where we left off after The best they could run put needed boost. "This is the best year the 
-Katie McVoy 
[our last game] we'll have an Saint Mary's leading runners -"We took it to five games and women have had in my seven 



Friday, May 18, 200 I page·39
The Observer . SPORTS 
WINTER SPORTS 
Winter snows wins, losses on Irish, Belles 
Her season culminated with a classmen for· the 2001-2002 sea­
ERNESTO LACAYO/The Observer 
victory in the Big East finals in s on. Head coach Gretchen
Irish senior captain Ryan Dolder skates during a fast break in a Feb. 9 game against Bowling 
the 200 individual medley and Hildebrandt will turn over the
Green. Freshman center Aaron Gill looks on. The Irish missed the CCHA playoffs. 
second-place finishes in the 400 helm of the team to a new head individual medley and in the coach. Notre Dame Hockey with his second straight second and there's probably one other 1,650 freestyle. She qualified for -Noreen Gillespie After making its first trip to the place finish in epee. Viviani was diver who would compete with the NCAA Championships in all CCHA quarterfinals at Joe Lewis the only first team All-American Herbie and Andy," Walsh said. three events, and earned honor­
Saint Mary's Basketball
Arena in Detroit after the 1999-for the Irish but all five men Maggio holds the school record able mention All-Am(;lrican hon­
It was a season of firsts and
2000 season, this year's Notre earned All-American honors -set earlier this season against ors in the 200 individual medley. 
lasts for the Saint Mary's basket­
Dame hockey team looked to while Anna Carnick and Call Cleveland State. Huesman is in "Whatever you tell her to swim, 
ball team this year. 
build on that momentum and get were named All-Americans on second. At the Big East she say, 'OK, I'll do it', and does it 
A first for new head coach
their first ever bid to the NCAA the women's side. Champion-ships, Maggio took really well," said senior co-cap­
Suzanne Smith and assistant
tournament. Brian Casas and Forrest second on both the three-meter tain Kristen Van Saun. 
coach Sherry Donnelly and a last
But after stumbling to last Walton both used strong second­springboard and the one-meter While Labosky was dominating 
place conference finish for the
place in the CCHA in the first few day performances to move up the springboard. Meanwhile. the distance events, Danielle 
team.
months of the season, not even a rankings into All-American sta­Huesman fin-Hulick and Lisa 
A first for starting freshmen
late season surge was enough for tus. Walton finished ninth and ished fourth Garcia were fill­
"Ifs a new generation of players Katie Miller and Leigh
the Irish to claim a spot in the made second team All-American on the one­ing in for Nixon 
Ann Matesich and a last for grad­
CCHA playoffs. while Casas rallied to finish sev­meter spring­kids. To be able to win in the sprint 
uating senior Julie Norman. 
The low point for the team enth and earn second team All­board and events.
again is really Despite a 14-19 record, Smith 
came on the first weekend of American honors for the second fifth on the Meanwhile, Lisa
important.,, believed her team took a much­
February when Notre Dame trav­team. Casas finished eighth as a three-meter D'Olier finished 
needed stride in the right direc­
eled to Ohio State and were freshman in 1999. springboard. with a surge by 
tion.
swept by the young Buckeyes. By Andrzej Bednarski and Andre W h i 1 e Bailey Weathers winning the 100 
"I think if you really look at
this point, the Irish were at the Crompton each finished with All­Huesman and 200 yard
head swimming coach where we came from, although
bottom of the CCHA standings American honors in sabre. and Maggio butterfly races at 
our wins came early, we
with little hope of making the Sophomore second team All­were domi-the Big East 
improved immensely," Smith 
CCHA playoffs. American Ozren Debic just bare­nating the diving events, senior Championships. 
said. "We really took some steps
Notre Dame needed to sweep ly missed out on his second Jonathan Pierce staked his claim Hecking shattered every back­
forward."
the next two series against straight first team All-American as one of the best male Irish stroke record. She played an 
After a disappointing 4-22 
Bowling Green and Alaska­award with a fifth place finish in swimmers ever. Although Pierce integral role in Notre Dame's vic­
1999-2000 season, head coach
Fairbanks to have enough points foil. failed to defend his 1,650 tories over Northwestern and 
Dave Roeder resigned and was 
to make the playoffs. With the exception of Carnick freestyle title at Big East, he still Michigan .-two ranked oppo­
replaced by new sports informa­
First, the Irish swept Bowling and Call in epee, the women turned in a solid all-around per­nents that the Irish faced, and .,,,
tion director Suzanne Smith. 
Green. Then came an improbable struggled at the championships. formance. beat, in consecutive nights. And 

With Smith's help, the Belles 
tie at Michigan. It was Notre Liza Boutsikaris and Maggie Pierce started the Big East she was just beginning to shine. 
started off the season on the right 
Dame's first non-loss at Michigan Jordan finished 16th and 17th weekend by finishing third in the At the Big East championships, 
foot.
since 1982. Then, the Irish trav­respectively in foil. Cari 500 freestyle. He ended it by tak­she swam a 54.98 in the 100 
The Belles boasted a 6-3 non­
eled to Alaska, where they took a McCullough and Destanie Milo ing third in the 1,650 freestyle. In backstroke, becoming the first 
conference record including a 
tie and a win against the took home 15th and 17th place between, he became the second Irish backstroker to break the 
championship at the Marietta
Nanooks. finishes. Notre Dame swimmer to break 55-second barrier. And just 10 
Turkey Shootout as they headed 
With tiebreakers against the Viviani still has some competi­the four-minute barrier in the minutes later, she finished ninth 
into league play in early January. 
two teams ahead of them in the tion ahead of him, as he will be 400 individual medley. in the 100 freestyle. 
A strong 61-52 win against
CCHA, Notre Dame looked to be heading to two Senior World Cup Meanwhile, senior Ryan Verlin By the time her season was 
Albion started off Saint Mary's
in the playoffs. All they needed events and the U.S. National showed why he was Notre over, she earned honorable men­
MIAAplay.
was a win and a Bowling Green Championships . Dame's top butterflyer when he tion All-American honors in the 
However, an injury that
loss in the final two games of the -Mike Connolly took sixth in the 200 butterfly at 200 backstroke -joining 
benched leading scorer Kristen 
regular season to be assured a the Big East Championships. Labosky and junior diver Heather 
f.· Matha put a damper on the 
/" spot in the playoffs. The Irish got A pair of rising stars for the Mattingly.
Notre Dame Men's Swimming team's strong start, Until her 
·:i_t 
.i•. their win on Friday against Irish was sophomore Jason It's hard to imagine how good
Call it a season of fours . injury, Matha had been named 
~­
Western Michigan, but so did Fitzpatrick and freshman Matt the Irish would be when Nixon
All season long, the men's MIAA player of the week and
"i
,. Bowling Green. Obringer. went down. But they didn't miss
swimming and diving team was claimed the most rebounds in an 
But it wasn't meant to be. Fitzpatrick took sixth in the a beat and did what they do best 
led by four swimmers. Their MIAAgame.
While the Irish lost their last 100 breaststroke and third in the -win.
greatest strength was their diving Without the help of their lead­
home game to Western Michigan 200 breaststroke, while Obringer -Andrew Soukup
-Notre Dame had four of them. ing post player. the Belles strug­
7-2, Bowling Green won in over­was solid in the 200 and 500
And at the Big East champi­gled to claim victory. They went 
time to take over the last playoff freestyle all year long. .
onships, the men finished -sur­Saint Mary's Swimming on a 10-game losing skid before 
spot, keeping the Irish out of the When the season ended, the
prise -fourth. A freshman-dominated squad eventually recovering to defeat 
CCHA playoffs. Irish failed to qualify anyone for
"We did what we were capable shot to a sixth-place finish at the the Comets of Olivet in their last 
-Matt Orenchuk nationals. Their best chance was
of doing," Irish head coach Tim MIAA Swimming and Diving victory of the season. 
in diving, but Maggio finished
Welsh said. "Do we wish we were Championships in February pro­Three disappointing losses 
-~•:r,_, 
~j tenth at the Zone Diving meet
Notre Dame Fencing capable of more? Sure we do." pelled by a host of record-break­ended the season and guaran­
"'' and Huesman was 13th . 
. ' A strong showing by the men On a thin squad that finished 7-ing swims by freshman standout teed that Saint Mary's wou_ld 
-Andrew Soukup
and a breakthrough performance 2, the focus was more on individ­Megan Ramsey. have to face off against league by sophomore epeeist Meagan ual performances rather than Just narrowly missing NCAA leader Hope in round 1 of MIAA
Notre Dame Women's
Call were not enough for the Irish what the team could do. Division III provisional qualifying tournament play. 

Swimming
in 2001 as Notre Dame finished Among the bright points for the times in two events, Ramsey dec­The Flying Dutch, who came in 
Make it five in a row.
third at the NCAA Fencing Irish was their diving tandem of orated the record board with undefeated, made short work of 
In what might be considered
Championships. senior Herb Huesman and sopho­lower marks in the 100-and 200-the Belles, wrapping up Saint 
one of their best seasons ever,
Sophomore Jan Viviani repeat­more Andy Maggio. yard butterfly and 200-yard Mary's with a 95-48 victory. 
the women's swimming and div­
ed as a first team All-American "I've been here for 16 years freestyle at the championships. -Katie McVoy 
.. ··.·. # 
• 
• . 
., 
ing team won their fifth consecu­tive Big East Championship. In the process, they swam their way to a 10-1 record and a No. 15 ranking, the highest in the pro­gram's history. 
"Where do you begin?" asked Irish head coach Bailey Weathers said after the Irish secured their title. "It's a new generation of kids. To be able to win again is really important, and to make that transition is pretty incredible for us." 
But it didn't appear as if the Irish would be so successful early on. Senior Carrie Nixon hurt her shoulder and Notre Dame's top sprinter ended up not competing for most of the season. It took a talented group of freshman to make up for Nixon's absence. 
Within a month after she began competing, Labosky had won three individual events ­the 200 individual medley, the 400 individual medley, and the 1,650 freestyle -three meets in a row. 
She also added her name to three record-breaking relays during the weekend, clocking new records in the 200, 400 and 800-yard freestyle relays. 
Senior Colleen Sullivan round­ed out her collegiate swimming career with in record-breaking style, resetting the 100-yard freestyle mark twice at the MIAA Championships. While the team was disappointed not to finish higher in the MIAA ranks, the personal bests and records made this squad arguably one of the best in Saint Mary's history. 
"In the beginning our main focus was Alma and Albion, but as the meet went on and the records started falling and people were swimming personal bests we forgot about the other teams and focused on us," said Sullivan. 
The finish was the second­highest finish for the Belles after finishing fifth in 2000. Graduating only three seniors from this year's squad, the Belles will return a solid core of under­

i \ 
I , 

1 
FouR YEARS IN 
-=v1Ew 
page 40 The top JO Observer sports stories from the 1997-2001 academic years Friday, May 18, 2001 
National Championship Edition .n"::'!. 
] I 
I 
I 

Flying High 


Women win national chan1pionship 
April 2, 200 I  
With 5.8 seconds remaining and the  weeks later, the Irish were on the North  
NCAA Championship game tied at 66,  Lawn of the White House receiving hon­ 
Kelley Siemon found Ruth Riley open  ors from President Bush.  
under the basket. Riley missed the shot,  But the Irish could not have achieved  
but collected the foul. The 2000-01  what they did without their three senior  
Naismith Player of the Year sank both  starters ­ Riley, Siemon and point guard  
free throws, putting the Irish up 68-66.  Niele Ivey. The championship was espe­ 
Purdue  inbounded  the  ball.  All­ cially sweet for Ivey, playing in front of  
American Katie Douglas missed a prayer  her hometown fans in St. Louis. The 5-7  
shot from just inside the key. Notre  point guard overcame two torn knee liga­ 
Dame's Alicia Ratay grabbed the rebound  ments in her career to emerge as a third­ 
and the Irish were champions. Monk  team All-A-rnerican.  
Malloy embraced Irish coach Muffet  Riley ­ a three-time Big East Defensive  
McGraw, 1,500 fans showed up towel­ Player of the Year ­ improved her game  
come the Irish back to campus and, two  as a senior, limiting her fouls and increas- 


Football earns
2 
Fiesta Bowl bid 
After a horrendous 5-7 season, most predicted Irish head coach Bob Davie would be out of a job. 
But behind fresh­man quarterback Matt Lovecchio, the Irish earned their first:..ever BCS bid. However, against Oregon State in the Fiesta Bowl, the Irish were humiliated 41­9 and finished the season 9-3. 
Dec. I2, 2000 

Murphy leaves
5 
early for pros 
After spending three years at Notre Dame and leading the 
OBSERVER 
Irish to the NCAA tournament, junior Troy Murphy an­nounced his decision to leave Notre Dame early for the NBA draft. 
The two time All­American led the Irish in scoring and was named the Big East player of the year in 2000 and 2001. 
April 23, 200I 
Irish teams earn 3 No. I rankings 

When the Irish 
baseball squad ascended to the top of the College Baseball poll, it became the fourth team to reach the No. 1 ranking in the 2000-01 academic year. 
In mid-October, women's soccer was the first team. During the winter they were joined by women's basketball and men's fencing. 
SPORTS 
~~-=• 
SPORTS It i£,;~ • ::E:~ 1f '?fi Gl.A'NcE • ::~ • .!":Jr~;. • -~;':!::"!::.:·· 
April 24, 200I 
6 Brey's squad makes NCAA tourney 
Under the direction 
SPORTS -~~--.--.;;!;-~-... --···
' ;:-= 
of first-year head 
-----.. -,......,__. ---~~·--~......,.._ , __,,,_...,.. ...................
_ 
coach Mike Brey. the 
-•-hN"-
One and done 
men's basketball team made the NCAA tournament for the first time since 1990. 
After earning a share of the Big East regular season title, the Irish lost to Pitt in the first round of the Big East Tour­

l..ll>o,ky,Hedilna..............-....--NCM.a nament. In the NCAA Tourney, the Irish beat Xavier before falling to Ole Miss. 
SPORTS • ...E. 11' ,-=.. 1' ..:,.-,.._ • Z."E. 
ulANCE ..,, =~•~ •.::::..;;;=. • =~ 
Marr.h 4, 200I 
9 Brey takes over men's program Tennis wins first
8 
MIAAcrown 
Only two years after Saint Mary's joined the Michigan Intercollegiate Athletic Association, the Belles tennis team brought home an MIM title. 
Led by Natalie Cook and Annie Knish. the team claimed four singles championships and two doubles champi­onships on the way to defeating defending champion Hope. 
April 20, 2001 

ing her assists. She was a unanimous first-team All-American, Vorizon's Women's Academic 'All-American Athlete of the Year and Notre Dame's leading scorer. 
Siemon, the Big East's Most Improved Player, played half of her season with her left hand in a brace after breaking bones in the hand Jan. 13. Siemon led the Irish in scoring their final regular season game at Pittsburgh only 24 hours after a stay in the infirmary with a stomach virus. 
Riley now plays in the WNBA with the Miami Sol, while Ivey is a member of the Indiana Fever. 
4 Saint Mary's cuts track program 
Under the recom­
PORTS ;;~:::·ti£
S -~ ­
mendation of second year athletic director Lynn Kachmarik, Saint Mary's President Marilou Eldred made the decision to discontin­ue the track and field team following the 2001 season. 
Kachmarik, who was hired in 1999, made the decision in the hopes of rebuild­ing a struggling ath­letic program. 
Feb. /, 2001 


Berticelli dies of
7 
heart attack 
Irish men's soccer head coach Mike B.erticelli died sud­
·ossERVER 

denly of a heart attack. 
Berticelli, 48, coached the Irish for 10 of his 23 years as head coach and com­piled a 104~80-19 overall record. Berticelli led his team to the 1996 Big East Championship title and three NCAA tournament appear­ances . 
Jan. 26, 2000 

j . 
, 
I 
' 
I 
'; t ~ :1 ) 
p I ) 
.
I i 
I 
I 
t 
f 
i 

SPORTS :.~-_,
..;:• ._.,._-,.,v,._w,•~,_.,._..,.,., OltMc. 'N'.'A·~~~~-.''."~
-

After only one year of coaching, Matt Doherty abandoned Notre Dame to return to his alma mater, North Carolina. 
One month later, Notre Dame hired former Duke assis­tant coach Mike Brey as its 11th head coach. Brey left his head coaching posi­tion at Delaware to take the Irish to an NCAA playoff berth. 
Aug. 19, 2000 
Friday, May 18, 2001 page 41
The Observer . SPORTS 
MEN'S TENNIS 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Huskies end Irish tournament run 
By KATIE HUGHES SPorts Writer 
The Irish men's tennis team ended its 2000-01 campaign in the second round of the tourna­ment with a 4-1 loss to Washing-ton, ending a path that soared past expectations. 
The Irish defeated No. 47 Harvard decisively 4-0 to advance to the second round in their 11th consecutive NCAA Tournament appearance. 
The 19th-ranked doubles team of juniors Javier Taborga and Aaron Talarico defeated Harvard's Barker and Turner 8­1, and Matt Daly and Luis Haddock-Morales defeated Chiou and Snyder at No. 3 dou­bles 8-5 to take the doubles point. Junior Aaron Talarico won 6-3, 6-3 over Harvard's Anthony Barker at No. 4 singles, sophomore Brian Farrell took No. 5 6-2, defeating Harvard's George Turner, 6-2, and senior Matt Daly won at No. 6 6-2, 6-3 over Mark Riddell to clinch the victory. The last three singles matches were abandoned. 
The Irish headed into the sec­ond round of NCAAs looking for their first trip to the final 16 since 1994, knowing what the 18th ranked Washington Huskies were capable of doing. 
"Washington has had an up and down year. but when they get it together, they're pretty talented. They've only had one loss all year, to No. 1 Georgia," said head coach Bob Bayliss. 
Washington took Nos. 1 and 3 doubles, clinching the singles point to make the score 1-0, then Haddock-Morales defeated Jeremy Berman 6-2, 6-3 at No. 3 singles. The Huskies then took Nos. 1, 4 and 5 singles, winning the match 4-1, and advancing to play second-seeded UClA. 
"The score was a little mis­leading," said Bayliss. "Matt Daly and Javier Taborga were winning their matches. We missed a lot of very good oppor­tunities, and in that process lost some momentum. That was the beginning of a collapse for us. There were a lot of ifs, but if wishes were horses, then beg­gars would ride." 
Senior Matt Daly was defeat­ing Washington's Dillon Ruby 7­6, 2-1 when the match ended. Daly finishes his last season for the Irish having won eight of nine dual singles matches. 
"Matt Daly had as big a turn­around this year as anyone we've had in a while," said Bayliss. "He's been a real bea­con and a real example this year. He's very team-oriented." 
While the team's tour­
heartbreakers to Indiana State, Miami and SMU, could have eas­ily ended in Irish victories. 
Entering the 2001 season, Notre Dame lost its best player, senior Ryan Sachire, and were ranked 34th. 
The season evolved into a mix of exceeding expectations by winning the Blue Gray Invitational and flirting with an elite top 10 ranking, thanks to the reliable, consistent perfor­mances from the bottom of the Irish lineup. 
"This year we had a lot of dif­ferent characteristics from each guy on the team," said Talarico. "A lot of times we just clicked. Coming off of the Blue-Gray, I felt like we could have beat any team, but as the season lagged on, we kind of hit a lower point and didn't perform as well as we should have." 
This sea­
son, Irish ten­
nament run is nis raised the
"If we play together and 
finished, bar by churn­
Taborga and play as a team. ifwe're ing out solid 
Talrico will on the same page we can match after continue on to solid match,
do some great things. ••
compete in and heading the next into next sea­round of the Javier Taborga son, they will doubles tour­tennis player lose only one 
nament on May 23 in Athens, Ga. 
"Last year. we were kind of in awe of being at NCAAs," said Talarico. "If we play together and we play as a team, if we're on the same page we can do some great things on the court. I think our games compliment each other. I was really proud of all the guys this year, I wish we could have brought the whole team down to Athens." 
The Irish finish the season 1 7 ­7, most of their losses, including 
the NOTRE DAME CLUB of 
starter, Daly. 
"Once you 
begin to exceed any expectations you originally had, you like the taste of that," said Bayliss. "Your expectations continue to grow. Mine have, and the team's have as well. What we got this year was the confidence that we can play with the best teams in the country, and with some new freshmen next year, we could be the best we've been in over a decade. Until you win it all, you're never quite satisfied." 
Top-ranked season 
ends in semifinals 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Sports Writer 
For 24 straight games, the Irish women's soccer team never found itself trailing when time ticked off the clock. For 17 straight games they held on to the No. 1 ranking in the country. For 45 minutes, they dominated defending champion North Carolina in the semifinals of the Women's College Cup. 
But then 24 games of injury. 24 games of fatigue and North Carolina's quick strike offense caught up with the Irish. 
"I was really proud of the effort, due to a lot of things we fought through all season due to injury." head coach Randy Waldrum said after the Tar Heels scored two second half goals to end Notre Dame's perfect season. 
The Irish battled to a 2 3-0-1 record in Waldrum's second year leading the Irish but kl:tee injuries to key players hke Ashley Dryer. Kelly Lindsey and Amy Warner finally ended their run to a title. 
But what a run it was. 
Notre Dame opened the sea­son with dominating wins against Detroit (6-0), Tulsa (2­
0) and Providence (5-1) before facing its first real challenge of the season -the Santa Clara Broncos. 
The Irish knocked the previ­ously undefeated Broncos out of the 1999 NCAA tourna­ment. The Broncos entered Alumni Field with revenge on their minds but Anne Makinen kick for another goal as the Irish completed dominated the Broncos. 
"Our team is just not ready for this type of competition," Santa Clara head coach Jerry Smith said after the game. 
Three wins against west coast soccer powers Stanford, Washington and Portland pro­pelled Notre Dame to its first No. 1 ranking in women's soc­cer since 1996. 
"It's certainly a special moment but we hope there are many more to come for us," Waldrum said in a pre­pared statement. 
There were nine more spe­cial moments for Notre Dame before it hit the only blemish on its regular season record. After winning 16 games in a row, the Irish had their first set back against the Connecticut Huskies. Connecticut played strong defense against the Irish and settled for a 0-0 tie. 
Four games later, however, Notre Dame would have its revenge with a 1-0 win against the Huskies in the finals of the Big East Championships at Alumni Field. 
The win gave the Irish their sixth straight Big East women's soccer champi­onship. The Irish have won the title every year they have been in the league. 
The Irish entered NCAA play undefeated for just the second time in the history of the pro­gram. The Irish entered the 1997 tournament undefeated as well. 
sent them home with a 6-1 blowout loss. The senior from Finland, who was later named the Hermann Trophy winner as the top women's college soccer player, assisted on two goals and converted a penalty 

YO, Kevin! 
Love M, D, K, C, D, & K 
The Irish easily advanced to the semifinals of the Women's College Cup for the second straight year. They outscored their opponents 7-1 including a 2-1 win against Santa Clara in the quarterfinals. 
Don't tell me where to go to college! 
Congrats Meghan!!! 


ORANGE COUN'IY 
OUTSTANDING CLl1B AWARD ("A" CLUBS) 2000 NOTRE DAMECLUBOFTHEYEAR 1981, 1983, 1984, 1986 . · F MERIT FOR SUSTAINED EXCELLENCE IN ALUMNI CLUB PERFORMANCE 1990 c~t~~~~c'.i-~:oi~~L~':;'~~1~ 85, m1, l988. 1989, 1990. 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994. 199S, 1996, 1997, t998, 1999. 2000 SPECIAL CITATION 1994. 1995, 1996, 1996, 1997, [998. 1999, 2000 
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ORANGE COUNTY CONGRATULATES THE CLASS OF 2001 
Best wishes to our Orange County graduates: 
Elizabeth Barry Joseph Bonavita Andrew Dempsey Kevin Dowdell Patrick Fisher Charles Gabbert Kathryn Gallagher Ryan Hodge Elizabeth Lemire Jenny Liem Darren A.fadden Heather McDonald Kirk Miller Robert Miske Julie Osborn Stephanie Scznchez Adrienne Shimmel Megan Strader Peter S1rottman Ryan Valadez David Zachry 
Plan on joining us for our "Class of2001 Graduation Celebration" tc, be held _the kend of June 16th. Check our website at www.ndcoc.com for more details wee on this and all ofour other exciting activities! 
Moving to Southern California after graduation? Let us kno~ -send an e-mail to ndcluboc<@.yahoo.com. We look forward to meeting you! 

P.O. BOX 7191, ORANGE, CALIFORNIA 92863 
VOICE MAIL TEL: (714) 563-6321 EMAIL: ndcluboc@yahoo.com 

page 42 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, May 18, 200 I 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish make second consecutive trip to NCAA tournament 

By ANDREW SOUKUP Associate Sports Editor 
Sixteen teams arrived in Georgia. Only one will leave with a championship. 
For Notre Dame's women's tennis team, this is the last stop. 
The Irish landed in Georgia late Monday night to begin preparations for the NCAA Championships, and Irish head coach Jay Louderback feels the Irish are poised to make a strong run through the tournament. 
"I think we're playing the best we can right now," he said. "We're easily playing ·our best tennis ofthe year." . 
This is the second consecutive year that Notre Dame has advanced to the Sweet 16. But of the five times Notre Dame has
1 • 
t qualified for the national finals, H' they've lost in the quarterfinals each time. 
JI,1 
This time around, No. 13 seed­IJ ed Notre Dame faces a familiar
,,
I, foe in No. 4 seeded Florida. Last
)' 
year, the Gators knocked the
I\ 
Ii Irish out of the championships, ,, 'I but Louderback expects a differ­
' 
;1 ent ending this time around. i "Playing Florida last yearI I helped us a lot," he said. "TheyI I lost quite a few people, and so t they're not as good. By the same
l1 
r 
token, we're a lot better. t'1/ "It's gonna.be a good match." As she lias all season, Michelle Dasso will lead the Irish at No. 1 
singles. Dasso, the winningest
l 
singles player in Notre Dame history, has also qualified for the NCAA singles competition and teamed up with Becky Varnum in for the doubles championship. 
The Irish lineup will not change -Varnum will still com­pete at No. 2 singles and Nina Vaughan will play No. 3. Caylan Leslie, Lindsey Green, and Kimberly Guy will round out the singles lineup. 
The forecast calls for 80­degree weather with high humidity levels. Louderback doesn't expect the weather to affect the Irish. 
The Irish, who practiced for two hours Tuesday and Wednesday, faced Florida Thursday afternoon. Results were not available by press time. 
In order to get to the finals, the Irish beat Eastern Michigan and Tulane last weekend on Notre Dame's campus. 
The Irish began their tourna­ment run with a 4-0 victory over Eastern Michigan. They handily won the doubles point as Dasso and Varnum won 8-1 and Green and Vaughan captured their match 8-2. When their match was abandoned, Katie Cunha and Guy were winning 6-2. 
In the singles match, the No. 8 Irish quickly picked up the other three points. Guy was the first to win, as she won her No. 6 match 6-1, 6-0. Green gave the Irish a 3-0 lead with her 6-1, 6-1 victory at No. 5 singles, and Caylan Leslie clinched the victory for 
I " 
;I 
ij 
f 
a I ' I C 
, '; 
' 
I 
l I 
It 
' J ', 

I 
II . 
f . 
; 
J \ 
i I ~ 
' I i' 
'f 
~ 
I , ; i! 
i ,; ~ 
,, . 
l~ } 1 ~JfJ 
I / l 
r1
h{
!r ;.
" .
;i l 
i ~ 
. I 
f}.
,. 
I, 
(: I 

Notre Dame with a 6-4, 6-1 win. 
While Notre Dame was dis­mantling Eastern Michigan, No.16 Texas A&M was upset 4-2 by Tulane. The cold and windy conditions contributed to Texas A&M's early exit. 
"I was very surprised," Louderback said. "A&M is a really good team, and I thought they would give us some trou­ble." 
In the second round, Notre Dame didn't have any trouble blowtng by Tulane as they won 4-0 to advance to the Sweet 16. 
Dasso and Varnum started the Irish off with an 8-1 win at Ne. 1 doubles. But the Irish fell behind 6-4 in the other two matches before Green and Vaughan ral­lied to win 9-7 at No. 3 doubles, clinching the doubles point for the Irish. 
In singles, Guy crushed Anneli Axsater 6-0, 6-1. while Vaughan won 6-0, 6-3 at No. 3 singles and Green won her match 6-1, 6-2 to move the Irish into the Sweet 16. 
Louderback believed the two wins gave the Irish a strong advantage heading into the NCAA finals. The Irish hadn't played a match since they won the Big East Championship three weeks ago. 
"We're used to playing two matches during the season, have three or four days off, and then go at it again," he said. "We defi­nitely have some momentum heading into the NCAA Tournament." 


EBEST ·1EPT 
e ET... 

PARK JEFFERSON APARTMENTS 
Now Renting 1 & 2 Bedroom Homes Starting at $466.00 Gourmet Kitchens, Spacious Closets, Laundry Facilities, Indoor Swimming Pool, Exercise Room & Party Rooms Located on Bus Line Minutes from Downtown, Universities & Shopping View our Model Daily Mon , Fri , 9 , 6 Saturday , 10 .-6 Sunday .-Noon , 4 3001 East Jefferson Blvd. South Bend, IN 46615 219--232--3333 www.parkjefferson.com 


.I 
;, 
' 1 
Ii 
! ; 
Friday, May 18, 200 I page_43
The Observer . TODAY 

TYLER
THINGS COULD BE WORSE
FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY 
WHATELY 

> 
Fox TROT BILL AMEND 
-) 
I THOUGHT THE 
BuT o'IEAALL, MOST oF J'ASoN, HEY, I AUTHOR GoT off 
THE POINTS WERE GooO, IT'S" 2nr! READ THIS ON SoME oOD 
ANO IT RA&SEO SoME MATH Boole'! WOO! 
.. 
Book! TANGENTS FoR A INTERESTING PARALLELS. \ WHAT AN I LIIC:EO HOW IT cAME 
,ti ENDING! FULL CIRCLE IN THE LAST 

,,.J)
CHAPTER. 
I 

v 
.., 
-
The saddest thing about graduating...is telling your parents that you're moving back home. 


EUGENIA LAST
CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON and lasting. 0000
28 They're 61 Before, in poetry
ACROSS 
THIS DAY: Tim Reid, Cicely VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 1 Beasts of integrated into 62 Declare openly Tyson, Robert Urich, Janie Fricke, You will handle other people's burden microchips 63 Yield David Susskind, Kristy Swanson money and possessions well Happy Birthday: Don't look today. Travel should be on your
33 Fettuccine, e.g. 64 Ancient
6 Tennis great back. It will take everything mind, and so should activities
36 Sandwich seller Peruvians
Arthur you've got to keep up with the that will be conducive to passion­37 It has a ball at 66 Introduction to fast-paced year ahead of you. The ate encounters. 0000
10 Kills, in mob 
the circus physics? opportunities will be plentiful, LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22):slang 
but you will have to assess and Your partner will be erratic, and
38 Ottawa's prov. 67 Oscar winner 
14 Kind of acid act fast to take advantage of you will be in a state of panic.
Guinness
39 •AJas!" 
them. Romance is likely to take a Channel all your energy into
15 Simba, for one 68 Muse of lyric
42 TV manufacturer passionate turn. Rekindle the making peace, not war. You can 16 Jockey's whip poetry relationship you are in or start make things work if you are will­
43 Soft ball material 
69 Hunted animals something new. Your numbers: 3, ~ bend to each other's needs. 
17 One who prays 45_Major 
16, 28, 31, 36, 42
70 Neck hair
to Vishnu 46 Like some ARIES (March 21-April 19): SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
71 Yeggs' targets
18 Dog food brand colognes Your temper wiII flare if you Your mate will be much harder to don't get your way. Curb your deal with than your boss. Keep
19 When said three 48 Towering over 
DOWN tantrums if you want to save the your work and your personal life times, a 1970 50 "Antiques relationship. You may want to separate. Don't get backed into a
1 Oohed and_
war film Roadshow" join self-awareness groups. Soul­corner. Discover all the facts
2 Strike down
20 Greek vowel shower searching will be a must. 000 before you make a decision. 000
3 Egyptian
51 "Charlotte's TAURUS (April 20-May 20): SAGITfARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 
21 Manager's 
peninsula A secret love affair will be not 21): Develop a new hobby. Do
" 
catchphrase 4 Terminus only unhealthy, but also short­things you enjoy for relaxation. 52 Potato chip lived and emotionally destruc­Lately all you seem to be doing is
24 Spy novelist Len 5 Lefty
accompanier tive. Think twice before you work. Social events will lead to a
6 Memorable
26 Likely 57 Saying about jump; chances are you're only passionate relationship. 0000
mission
27 Increases romance looking for some excitement. CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 7 Librarian's 000 19): You and your partner have motto, perhaps GEMINI (May 2l~June 20): not been completely honest with Don't overspend on unnecessary yourselves or one another. Back· 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE eArizona Indian 
luxury times. Although you will up and see if you can salvage
9 "The Dukes of PuzzlebyPe&lrGonlon meet exciting new friends, don't your relation.ship. Situations have 
Hazzard" spinoff 
31 Zigzag 50 Wrestling win 58 Walkie-talkie offer to pay their way. You will gotten out of hand. 000 10 One that's have opportunities to do things AQUARIUS Qan. ~Feb. 18):
movement 53 Family girl word 
armed and with children. 0000 Relatives will not be pleased with dangerous? 32 Delight, slangily 54 Coffee before 59 Swindle CANCER (June 21-July 22): you today. Don't be too pushy 33 Duck's home bedtime You mustn't make hasty deci• about your intentions unless you
11 Limits of 
60~r 
sions. You will upset your home are prepared to face opposition.
achievement 34 Freshly 55 Angry 
environment if you have taken a You need to get away by yourself 12 Duffer's cry 35 Poll that's just 56 Mexican moolah 65 Pres. Charlton risk that involves property. for a while. 000 13 Fix, in a way for fun 57 Light source Heston's group Expect to have more people liv­PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
ing under your roof. 000 You mustn't let others talk you
22 For what_ 36 Actress Laura 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your out of your hard-earned money.
worth 
40 Opposite of non Answers to any three clues in this puzzie outgoing nature will help you You are far too giving. Tuck23 PC alternative 
41 Personifies are available by touch-tone phone: meet interesting people. You may something away for a rainy day
25 Disembowel 
1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). be put in a position to lecture and instead of letting your cash slip
44 Many an 
will get your points across clearly; through your fingers. 00
interstate Annual subscriptions are available for the
"Casablanca" New relationships look stable 
47 Admiral's org. best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1--888-7-ACROSS. Birthday Baby: You are smart, quick and ready to conquer the
attachment 49 G-man's org. 
world. You have the right attitude and theJ'roper protocol to make your dreams come true. You hold your hea high and know exactly what you want. (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialastcom, astromate.com.) 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
Cl 2000 Universal Press Syndicate 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The · Observer is a vital source of information on peo­ple and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 
Name -------------------------­Address ------------------------­
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
-
..;.__ 
__,_________________________________________ 
I 
\ 
r , 
l 
;_' ; 
\' 

How sweet it is
Ii 

The womens tennis team looks to advance past the Sweet 16 for the first time in school history when it competes in this weekend's NCM Championships. 
I ' 

page 42 
O
THE page 44 BSERVER Friday, May 18, 200 I 



I 
( ' 
I 
' 
' ' 
I 
\ 

NOTRE DAME ATHLETES OF THE YEAR 
Top of the. class 
. Aaron Heilman returns for senior year, sparks Irish baseball resurgence 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Associate Spons Editor 
One inning. Just one inning. 
That's how long it took Notre Dame base­ball coach Paul Mainieri to realize just how good Aaron Heilman was going to be. 
Notre Dame was in the process of disman­tling Florida State 10-1 in the 1998 season opener when Mainieri decided to have an unknown freshman pitch the final inning. 
"I wanted to bring him along slowly to get his feet wet." Mainieri said. "I didn't want him to get shelled his first time out." 
It turns out that Mainieri didn't have any­thing to worry about. In his first collegiate outing, he threw the ball so hard and so fast that he shocked the entire Irish coaching staff. 
"He threw that ball so good, I turned to [pitching coach] Brian O'Connor and said, "I think we may have something here,"' Mainieri said. "And that was after.the first inning of a freshman year in a game that had already been decided. 
''I'll never forget that game as long as I live." 
"Coach gave me the opportunity the first game of the season and I just ran with it," said Heilman, The Observer's 2000-01 Notre Dame Male Athlete of the Year. "I looked at it as my opportunity to prove that I belonged at this level and that I could be successful." 
Little did Heilman know just how success­ful he was going to be. As a closer, Heilman led the nation in ERA, recorded nine saves, won seven games and was named an All-
see HEILMAN/page 32 

. All-American Ruth Riley leads Irish to first national championship 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Sports Editor 
Most members of the Class of 2001 spent this past week enjoying the rewards of their four years on campus -a trip to Cedar Point. an outing to Wrigley Field to see the Cubs and Wednesday night's formal dance. 
Ruth Riley had to miss the festivities 
she was busy working. The Observer's 2000-01 Female Athlete of the Year spent the week in Florida, preparing for her first season in the WNBA as a member of the Miami Sol. 
The fifth overall pick in the WNBA draft last month, Riley is less than two months removed from leading the Irish women's basketball team to its first ever NCAA title. She averaged 18.7 points as a senior to go along with 7 .8 rebounds, efforts that helped earn her recognition as the Naismith Women's College Player of the Year. 
But the 6-foot-5 center didn't always have it so easy at Notre Dame. When she first came to South Bend from the small town of Macy, Ind. in the fall of 1997, Riley was a tall and gangly proj­ect. 
"I think when she came in she wasn't ready really for the pace of the game," said Irish head coach Muffet McGraw. 
But Riley adjusted quickly, starting the final 26 games of the season and leading the Irish to the Sweet 16. She 
see RILEY/page 24 

SAINT MARY'S ATHLETE OF THE YEAR 
Cook ends two successful years with championship 

sophomore year, following the aggressive and we attack the net." 
By KATIE McVOY 
death of her tennis coach at that "Sharing that honor [ of winning 
Associate Sports Editor 
university. the championship] with Natalie was "After he died I started thinking wonderful, especia11y since we're 
Sad circumstances brought her to about family, and my parents live really good friends," Knish added. Saint Mary's, but senior Natalie an hour from [Saint Mary's] and I In addition to finishing with a Cook will leave with a smile. wanted to be closer," she said. doubles championship, Cook placed 
Cook, who came to Saint Mary's The year Cook transferred to third in No. 2 singles at the MIAA 
after the death of her tennis coach, Saint Mary's, hers was not the only championship, defeating I ' wrapped up two years of personal new face in the athletic department. Kalamazoo's Jodi Kite and earning t i : . and athletic success last Saturday That same year Saint Mary's wel­a place on first team All-MIAA. 
I ' 
with a team conference tennis comed new golf coach Theresa Cook and the Saint Mary's tennis
l' ' championship, an individual tennis Pekarek and new head tennis coach team's journey to the top did not championship and public recogni­Stevenson. As the coaches adjusted come without struggle. When Cook tion for an attitude her teammates to the teams, so did Natalie. arrived at Saint Mary's last year, the have been aware of all along. The results of this past tennis sea­tennis team was in disarray 
"[Natalie] is a tremendous leader son prove Cook made the adjust­The coach who began the 1999 and a great role model," doubles ment well. As the only senior on the season was fired. The players now '.=-~ _: -· partner Annie Knish said. "That's squad, Cook faced her share of dif­faced the challenge of learning how probably why she won the sports­ficulties, but left feeling like a suc­to play under Stevenson, as well as manship award. There is no athlete cess. welcoming a new junior who had 
li!, ' 
;~{'t' more deserving." "It was good because I felt like been playing tennis at another Cook received the Sue Little people respected me," Cook said. school. sportsmanship award from the "But at the same time, I felt people The Belles rose to the occasion. A , . MIAA Saturday, the same day the couldn't relate to what I was going second place finish in the MIAA was 
n> Belles tennis team won Saint Mary's through." aided by Cook who teamed up with
\: . : 
:;! ,: first league championship in any Cook teamed with Knish to take senior Becky Kremer to claim a No.
l
{' :1 sport. home the No. 1 doubles champi­2 doubles championship and a
, ; ,'1 
"[Natalie's] not give up attitude, onship in the MIAA tournament last place on second team All-MIAI\. I ' her cheering on her other team­weekend. Despite early season loss­Cook's MIAA honors, however, mates when they were still playing es, the pair came together as team­are not limited to tennis.
ti 
and giving them words of encour­mates and friends to bring home Cook also earned All-MLi\A hon­
1 ' 
" " agement have been a great help to the '\lictory. ors in golf in 1999. As a junior, she the team," head coach Dee "At the beginning of the season placed ·in the top 10 of the MIM 
i 
J. Stevenson said. we were losing together," Cook said. and was named second team All­
:1 Cook transferred to Saini Mary's "Then our chemistry picked up. from Taylor University after her vVe're both really fired up and
i ;l see COOK/page 32
L,I , !,.' 
, J 
I ) 








