
Luck be aticket holder 
Are there any Asians on television? 
With a background ofawesome music. the tal • 
According to one Asian•Canadian viewpoint. 
Wednesday
ented and funny cast ofGuys and Dolls will 
Asians are not only under•represented on T. V., 
start performances tomorrow night. 
but also misrepresented as well. 
FEBRUARY 7, 
Scene . page 14 
Viewpoint . page 11 
2001 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 82 



Running 01ates conte01plate their union 
By ERIN LaRUFFA 
News Writer 
Most Notre Dame students pay little auention to why two candidates in the student body election end up running together. 
But to the candidates them­selves. running mates are very significant. In fact, some presidential candidates put a great deal of time into decid• ing whom they would ask to run with them. 
"I wanted someone who was a strong leader," said presidential candidate Ryan Becker, who considered sev• cral different potential vice presidential candid ates before deciding on Nikki McCord in November. 
"I think Hyun picked me because he felt I was a very qualified candidate," McCord said. explaining that she and Becker know each other from working together on the Student Senate this year. 
Hunning mates Brooke Norton and Brian Moscona met through their involve­

He has his values in the rightment in class council. Last place," Norton said. 
year, Norton was an advisor 

"I was really flattered ...
to the freshman class council, 

because I have tremendous
which Moscona was part of. 

respect for Brooke," Moscona "We've been able to work said. "I feel absolutely hon­
together for the past year 

ored to be running with her."
and a half ... We work very 

Moscona added theirwell as a team," Moscona respective strengths and
said. 

weaknesses complement
Norton called Moscona at each other well, a character•home in January to ask him istic other tickets also findto run with her, he said. The beneficial as they run thdrtwo talked on the phone for c_ampaigns.

several :iours. 

"I think there has to t e a"He's a really good person. 
chemistry or a compatihility 

By ERIN PIROUTEK 
Associate News Editor 
Two weeks ago, the Faculty Senate passed several resolutions proposing du Lac policy changes and forwarded them to the co-chairs of the newly formed Academic and Student Life Advisory Council. (ASLAC) Provost Nathan Hatch and Vice President for Student Affairs Mark Poorman. Yesterday, Hatch addressed the Senate and fielded questions about the mission of the newly formed ASLAC and specific actions that he would undertake as co-chair It was his first visit to the senate since the formation of the ASLAC. 
Hatch said they hope to promote activities that encourage students to spend more of their "discretionary" time in intellectual inquiry. He noted one way is to improve the intellectu• al environment in residence halls, citing the example of presidential because the two are so close. However, he realized that she would be a strong run• ning mate and called her over break, according to Henisey. 
Not only are running mates Chris Zimmerman and Andy Nelson friends, they are also roommates. 
"Fortunately, when the University put us together freshman year, it did a good job. Chris is one of my best 
see ELECTION/page 6 

HTTP:!/OBS ­
Americans observe sweatshops 
By KATIE MILLER AND 
BRIDGET PURDUE 
Nc:ws Writers 
"No one can live on live on $1.25 a day. We know, we starved on it," Jim Keady testified Monday and Tuesday night to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. 
He and Leslie Kretzu know the impact sweat• shops have on families who struggle to sur-See Also vive on less than "Activists a living wage. 
Improving living

Keady and Kretzu spent the wages" past summer 
page4

living in solidar­ity with Nike sweatshop workers in Tangerang, Indonesia as part of their "Living Wage Project." 
"In going to Indonesia we were looking for the answers to two questions: is sweatshop work ben­eficial for its workers and can someone survive on $1.25 a day," said Keady. 
The answers soon became very obvious. Keady and Kretzu were horrified at the workers' living conditions which included open sewers on the streets, rats and roaches, undrinkable water, garbage-strewn streets, burning plastic waste in children's play areas and starvation. 
"We often had to decide 
sec WAGE/page 4 


[between the president and vice president)," Allison Henisey said. "Holt [Zeidler] and I definitely have that." 
In fact, these two running mates have been friends for almost three years, and also have been involved in student . government together. 
"We met each other on the first day of freshman year," . Henisey said. "We've always been a:..,le to work together to get thingi done." 
Zeidler did not originally consider Henisey, she said, 
Hatch addresses Faculty Senate concerns 
candidate Bill Bradley having dinner in Sorin and discussing political issues with hall residents. 
Hatch noted the need for more dialogue between rectors. faculty and administrators about students. On Feb. 26, the University plans to bring together all deans, assistant deans and rectors to encourage the sharing of "what rectors wish faculty knew about students" and "what faculty wish rectors knew about stu• dents." 
Hatch did not give definitive· answers to the resolutions regarding du Lac passed by the senate at their Jan. 24 meeting. Specifically, the senate had requested that a commit­tee of elected faculty representatives from the Faculty Senate and the ACASL. The committee would identi­fy du Lac passages which they feel need revised to protect the academic freedoms of students as individuals and as members of student associa• tions. 
"I don't see [the proposed commit­tee] supplanting the CLC in this regard," said Hatch, explaining it would be unduly confusing to have another committee. 

Another resolution asked for rec· onciliation of a discrepancy between the academic freedom granted facul­ty and students in the "Academic Articles" of Notre Dame and acade• mic freedom granted to students in du Lac. 
"It's the kind of issue that should be taken up," said Hatch, but said he would not comment on whether he would endorse the proposal to revise du Lac. 
"I have to study it," said Hatch. 
Following the address, philosophy professor Ed Manier expressed frus­tration about Hatch's response. 
"That answer from my perspnctive is disappointing," said Manier. "We've got to give student the same right of inquiry in student organiza• tions as they get in the classroom." 
see FACVLTY/page 4 page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, February 7, 2001 

INSIDE COLUMN 



The bane of 
• 

my extstence 

First of all, you have to understand this about me. I moved to North Carolina when I was 13. The years between 12 and 18 are what I call "the formative years." These are the ages when you first learn about pop culture, and begin to 
form opinions on things. 
It was at this time that I learned about the good and evil in sports programs. Duke and Notre Dame were teams I considered "good" because they both have outstanding reputations. 
On the other hand, North Carolina was a team I con­sidered "evil" because of the cockiness of their fans. 
I can remember my coach explaining to me how peo­ple in North Carolina call UNC-Chapel Hill "Carolina." 
"What about a team like South Carolina?" I asked. 

Matt Orenchuk 
Assistant Webmaster 
My coach replied, "There is only one 'Carolina'." 
From that point on, I have hated UNC. The way that people in North Carolina talk about the Tarheel basketball team, you would think that Dean Smith was a God, and that he won 35 national championships in his 35 years of . coaching. In fact, Dean only won 2 national championships as a coach, and on one of those championships he needed the help of a certain #23 that is the greatest basketball player ever. 
I believe UCIA would have something to say about being the greatest college basketball pro­gram of all time (10 championships in 12 years). Ok, so you get my point, I hate the North Carolina Tarheels. 
Last summer the plot thickened when UNC decided to hire away Matt Doherty from Notre Dame. Doherty, in case you have forgotten, was sort of like a basketball version of Lou. He was flamboyant and emotional, and best of all he really wanted to be here. So when "Carolina" decided to steal him away, I was very emotion­ally upset. How dare the cockiest college ever steal away OUR coach? It just wasn't fair. 
And that is where the story turns completely on its head. This past summer I vowed to hate Carolina even more than I usually do. I promised to root for everyone (including the evil Michigan and Ohio State programs) against the Tarheels. I hoped Doherty would fall flat on his face. 
Then last Thursday night I watched the UNC­Duke game on ESPN. The game was at Cameron Indoor Stadium on Duke's campus. I usually root for the Dookies, and this game was no exception. Or so I thought. 
As I watched the game, the more I began to root for Doherty. It was amazing for me to see a team walk into Cameron and not give up. I have been to a game at Duke, and trust me it is a really hard place to play. The students there are very intimidating. Doherty walked the side­lines as enthusiastic and confident as ever. 
Th.at is when I realized something. Doherty is 
the same coach he was here. The only reason 
he left was because UNC was his alma mater. I 
realized that I was a Doherty and a North 
Carolina fan. 
I would never have been a UNC fan, but from 
witnessing what Doherty did for Notre Dame 
basketball last year, that makes me respect him 
and his program at UNC. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Maribel Morey Lauren Kelly Nate Phillips Graphics Myra McGriff 
Jose Cudlar Sports 
Production Katie McVoy Rachel Protzman Viewpoint 
Lab Tech Lauren Beck 
Peter Richardson 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Obsen-er is a member of the Assomted Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

THIS WEEK IN SOUTH BEND 
Wednesday  Thursday  
. Event: Notre Dame  . Concert: Jo Dee  
Women's Basketball  Messina. Morris  
Game, Joyce Center, 7:30  Performing Arts Center, 8  
p.m.  p.m.  
. Event: Jazz  . Fundraising: St. Joseph  
Soundsations Concert,  Tree Sale Program, the  
Century Center, 7 p.m.  Soil and Conservation  
District office, all day.  

Friday 
. 
Event: Notre Dame Hockey Game, Joyce Center, 7 p.m. 

. 
Movie: "Dancer in the Dark," Snite Museum of Art, 7 p.m. 


Saturday 
. 
Event: Notre Dame Hockey Game, Joyce Center, 7 p.m. 

. 
Theater: "Guys and Dolls," Washington Hall. 


7:30 p.m. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports



OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Western Kentucky prof recovers from rescue 
BOWLING GREEN, Ky. 

Chris Groves was following the foot­steps of every other caver that had been in the back part of Sides Cave. The ledge was just tired of being stepped on. 
"Every single person that has been in that cave has been across that ledge," Groves said. "I'd been across it 10 or more times myself." 
Groves, an associate geography pro­fessor at Western Kentucky University, fell 30 feet when that ledge collapsed. He was inside for almost 15 hours after the fall until finally being pulled from the cave the next day. 
He has spent every day since in a small room in University of Louisville hospital, with his wife at his side. 
Groves is expected to stay in the 

"Every single person that has been in that cave has been across that ledge. I'd been across it IO or more times." 
Chris Groves 
Associate geography professor 
hospital until at least Thursday while recovering from four broken ribs, a broken shoulder bone and a partially collapsed lung. 
Mammoth Cave Park Hydrologist Joe Meiman and Brice Leech, a park employee, accompanied Groves on the 
research trip. They were two of Groves' visitors on Friday. 
"He was in good spirits," Leech said. "He didn't seem to be in too much pain. Well, he did have the painkiller button that he pushed every once in a while, but he didn't show it." 
Groves said he's. improving each day. He's been out of bed walking up and down the hospital hallways to regain his strength. 
Conrad Moore, interim head of the geology and geography. department, also spoke to Groves in the hospital. 
"He was very upbeat and concerned about his classes," Moore said. "He wanted to start teaching next week. I told him not to worry about it, we had his classes covered." 
Various instructors will be teaching his classes until Groves returns. 

ARKANSAS STATE 

Expenditures favor athletics 

JONESBORO, Ark. 
Arkansas State University spends a higher percent­age of money on athletics than it does on academics, according to a Faculty Senate Finance Committee report. Out of the total budget, only 29.74 percent of university expenditures are for academic purposes like technology, teacher salaries and instructional materials. According to the Finance Committee's report, athletic salaries have increased 76.24 per­cent since 1996, while expenditures for educational purposes have increased only 18.16. Students, how­ever, must bear the brunt of the athletic expendi­tures. According to a comparison of athletic fees paid by Arkansas college students, ASU students pay $10 per credit hour, while students at the University of Arkansas at Fayetteville do not pay athletic fees. Money taken from auxiliary funds and the educa­tional and general fund is used to balance the uni­versity's budget when the athletic department has a budget deficit. 


LOCAL WEATHER 


5 Day South Bend Forecast 
~Q~~uu ~ ~ u
',,,, ,... ,... .. .... :. ·=:::'·/~ -=--=--=­
Showers T~storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 



OHIO STATE 
Papers stolen from campus 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 

Students all over campus found Monday's issue of 
the Lantern missing. According to Ray Catalino, 
Lantern business manager, papers were confirmed 
missing in the Ohio Union, Sullivant Hall, the Main 
Library and the Journalism Building. This brought the 
cuunt in the early morning up to 1,000 papers unac­
counted for. "It's really sad the papers were taken," 
said Brian Clark, Lantern news editor. "Whoever did it 
doesn't have any respect for the amount of time the 
entire Lantern staff gives to produce the n·ewspaper 
everyday. Unfortunately newspaper theft happens on 
college campus throughout the country. It's illegal, but 
I've seen it happen at OSU three times now." Photo 
editor Melissa Miller found newspapers thrown away 
in dumpsters. "This is the first time in a long time that 
we've had this happen on this campus," Catalino said. 
"It has happened on other campuses too when certain 
groups want to prevent the paper's message from 
reaching the campus." 
NATIONAL WEATHER 

~.a...&. ........ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY

O 2001 AccuW..ther, Inc. 
{) is.di,·,,.,

(ff;--© . . CJ] . [cJ . 
Hfgh Low Shower• Ft•ln T~.tarm• F'lurrlH Snow lo• Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Vis ASBOd81«1 Pf'f19il 

Wednesday, February 7, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Congratulations to winners of 2001 National Seminary Basketball Championship 
Holy Cross: The Next Generation 
ANSWER ~ 
THECALL W 

www.nd.edu/-vocation 





Seniors: 
Internships available for next year at Campus Ministry 
Work in a wide range ofareas: retreats & spirituality religious education cross-cultural ministries worship & liturgy 
You are the Ideal candidate If you ... 
• 
would 1/lfe to share your faith with your peers 

• 
are considering tu/I-time ministry 

• 
are discerning your vocation In the Church 


Benefits Include: 

C-M 
• Worlf on a col/aborat/ve team

Campus Ministry 
• 
Off..campus housing on Notre Dame Ave. 

• 
Full med/cal benefits 



Find out more on Thursday, Feb. 8, 6:00-7:00p.m. in the Dooley Room located in Lafortune 
For more info, call Amy Seamon or Justin Dunn at l-5242 
. ~ 
Amencan Heart a-a Association.~ 
Flghtfng Heaf"t Disease and Stroke 
ONE OF THESE CAN CHANGE 
A THOUSAND LIVES 
SUPPORT MEDICAL RESEARCH 
GRADUATE STUDENT UNION 
Members debate healthcare plans 
By NATE PHILLIPS 
News Writer 
The Graduate Student Union addressed the possibility of expanding the current graduate student health plan Tuesday night. Member Harold Stegel led Union member complaints that expressed the need of a new health care system with better student benefits. 
"Our purpose as a body is to represent the students," said Stegel. "Health care is a huge concern for all graduates." 
There was some confusion as to whom the students should appeal for a larger health care stipend. Students expressed frus­tration that current departmen­tal funding of health insurance stipends is not fully adequate. 
"Many graduate students fell like they cannot pay completely for health insurance," said Alexander Samual, GSU 
"Our purpose as a body
vice president. dent organi­"It is something is to represent the zations. we should . The
students ... Health care is 
address to the Union also 
a huge concern for all 
administration addressed next time we graduates." computer speak with dilliculties in the GSU
them." Harold Stegel
"Their percep-computer tion is that per-Graduate Student Union member clusters. 
"We need current information concerning what is going on in the GSU," said Samual. "A Web site must be created that all peo• pie can use to gain current infor­mation. A lot of work needs to be done soon." 
Samual proceeded to propose a plan to hiro a web-designer to fix, update and maintain the CSU Web site. The Union decided to wait a week for a graduate stu­dent to offer his services, until opening up the job to all stu­dents. If the student f'ullills his required duties. the Union will pay him a dividend of' $500 .. 
In other GSU news: 
. Buckles addressed a possible name change for the student organization at the onset of the meeting. Afraid of confusion with other student unions, Union members unanimously decided to retain their original name, confident that it was clearly dis-
tinct from other stu­

haps they already give us enough money," said Mark Buckles, GSU president. 
After discussing the issue for several minutes, the board decided it to release a question­naire to graduate students to obtain a more complete picture of the overall health care dilem­ma. The questionnaire, the board agreed, would provide them with a solidified argument when the issue is addressed by the administration. 
The Union also addressed diffi­culties with the GSU Web site. 
The Web site crashed at the beginning of the semester, and was not fixed until fall break. Even after the mechanics of the site were reworked, the informa­tion it contained remains dated and useless to students and fac­ulty. 
Union mem­

bers com­plained that computers contin­ued to crash and that the print­ers continuously were jammed. Ed Kang, hoad of the computer cluster committee, defended himself against the complaints. 
"There is absolutely no dia­logue," said Kang. "I am not omniscient, I cannot know every­thing that goes wrong in there. Please. e-mail me, call me, con­tact me if there is something wrong. The problem is complete­ly with the apathy of the users who do not take the time to con­tact me," Kang said. 
Despite the complaints, the Union had a positive announce­ment as well. The GSU reached a new agreement with OIT, and the OIT agreed to provide a con­sultant in the graduate computer cluster. 

page4 

The Observer . NEWS Wednesday, February 7, 2001 


Wage 
continued from page 1 
between food and soap," said Keady. 
Keady. a former St. John's University soccer coach and professional player, decided to investi­gate the Nike sweatshops after he was forced to resign because he refused to be a "walking billboard" for Nike. He offered to work in an Indonesian factory but Nike denied his offer. 
Kretzu and Keady decided to live with the workers on their own. 
"We shopped where the workers shopped, we ate what they ate, 
"The women and men month, a
w e 
live d working in Nike's law aimed 
at women
where 
factories cannot afford 
who cannot
t h e y 
their basic human afford femi­
lived," 
n i n e
s a i d needs." 
hygiene
Kretzu. 
products. As
''The 
Leslie Kretzu 
80 to 90
women 
co-speaker on living wages percent of
and men 
ries to the Americans in an 
attempt to get their voice 
heard globally. 
Indonesians who tried to raise sweatshop awareness often met brutal conse­quences. 
Kretzu spoke of an Indonesian woman who was working on a documen­tary about the sweatshops; the woman disappeared and was later found brutal­ly raped and murdered in the jungle. 
The biggest problem fac­ing workers are the long hours. Workers must remain until their quotas are met. This often results in no bathroom breaks and long hours. 
Indonesian laws allow women two unpaid men­
strual leave 
days a 
working in Nike's factories cannot afford their basic human needs," said Kretzu. 'This is outrageous considering that they are working eight to 15 hours per day, six to seven days per week for the most prof­itable sportswear company 
in the world." 
In addition to harsh living conditions, Keady and Kretzu said workers were afraid to union and improve their situation. Workers told them they were threatened and assaulted when they tried to organize. 
"Two days after we arrived. a bomb went off at the Phillippine embassy where students were demonstrating against sweatshops, we were sup­posed to be there," said Kretzu. 
Faxed notices posted at the factories issued threats of violence against workers and their families if associ­ated with Keady and Kretzu. Despite the warn­ings. workers told their sto­
factory 
workers are women. this becomes a major issue. 
"In order to obtain men­strual leave, Women must receive permission from several supervisors before they must go to a Nike clinic where they must pull down their pants to prove they are menstruating.ff said Kretzu. "For Muslim work­ers who only reveal their hands and face, this is an outright violation of their religious beliefs." 
Most women do not try to take their menstrual leave said Kretzu. It is normal for women to bleed through their clothes. 
In addition. the health care provided to sweatshop workers for an entire year will barely cover the slight illness and medication of one family member. Keady and Kretzu took a child from the village to the doc­tor for a coughing virus and the medication alone cost 694 percent of a day's wage. 


Faculty 
continued from page 1 
"I do not believe the University will be extending benefits for domestic partners, either heterosexual or homosexual," said Hatch. 
Hatch cited statistics that illustrate the small gains in fac­ulty diversity. The number of female faculty increased from 17 to 21 percent in the past four years. The percentage of minority professors. excluding non-resident aliens. increased from 12 to 13 percent. 
"The progress continues. although not at the rate l wish it was," said Hatch. He said that plans are underway for forming a discrete office to handle issues of affirmative action and diversity. 
Hatch also noted that he sees hiring faculty appropriate to the University's Catholic mission as an extremely vital issue. 
He was subsequently questioned about the University's response to the expected June approval of Ex Corde, a doc­ument originally issued by Pope John Paul II on the role of Catholic Universities. 
"I think Notre Dame will continue to do what we current­ly are doing," said Hatch, noting that the University works very hard internally on fulfilling its mission as a Catholic University. He said Notre Dame has a strong commitment to academic freedom. 
"I don't see any change with respect to how we treat the­ologians or other faculty," he said. 
Prior to llatch's address, the senate approved a memorial resolution honoring Arthur Quigley. emeritus professor of electrical engineering. 


Trade panel: U.S. violated NAFTA 
Another Mexican official, Mexico estimates that about
Associated Press 

Deputy Transport Minister Aaron 14,000 trucks cross the border Dychter said 184 Mexican truck­daily and that it has lost aboutWASHINGTON ing firms have applied to trans­$2 billion because of the U.S. pol­
A trade panel ruled unani­
port cargo across the border into icy.
mously Tuesday that the United 
the United

States violated the North 
States. He said

American Free Trade Agreement 
Mexico has

by barring Mexican trucks from 
now "harmo­

most of its highways. But it said 
nized" its safe­

the United States can require 
ty standards to

Mexican truckers to meet U.S. 
meet those of
safety standards. 
the United

The ruling leaves to President 
States.

Bush the question of how to com­
NAFTA. the

ply while ensuring the American 
free trade

public does not share roadways 
agreement

with unsafe Mexican trucks. 
between the

The Transportation 
United States,

Department's Inspector 
Canada and

General's Office said 35 percent 
About 70 percent of the approximately
"It is imperative that we 
5 million
continue to limit access 
trucks enteringfor these dangerous the United States every
trucks even ifit means 
year come
paying trade sanctions.,. through Texas. The Texas Department of
Joan Claybrook 
Public Safety.
president of Public Citizen 
which is 
responsible for 
truck safety inspections, says it inspects about one percent of those trucks. 
A report issued Tuesday by the consumer group Public Citizen and its sister organization, Global Trade Watch, found that Texas border communities have seen a dramatic increase in high­way fatalities and serious injuries from crashes involving trucks with Mexican registra­tions. 
"It is imperative that we con­tinue to limit access for these dangerous trucks even if it means paying trade sanctions," said Joan Claybrook. president of Public Citizen. 
The American Trucking Associations applauded the panel's decision. 
"ATA strongly believes that motor carriers operating in the United States, no matter what their nationality. must abide by 
U.S. safety standards," said president Walter McCormick Jr. 
of Mexican trucks that entered the United States last year were put out of service for significant safety violations. 
An official from the U.S. Trade Representative's Office did not say how authorities would keep unsafe trucks from entering the country, but said Bush "has Mexico, called for Mexican trucks to have unrestricted access to highways in border states -Texas. California, New Mexico and Arizona -by 1995 and full access to all U.S. high­ways by January 2000. 
The Clinton administration, cit­ing safety concerns, but also 
made clear he believes 

"ATA strongly believes 
the NAF'fA trucking that motor carriers provisions 
operating in the United 
should be 

States, ... must abide by
implement­ed." US. safety standards." Pedro Cerisola, 
Walter McCormick Jr.
Mexico's 

communi­president of ATA cations and transport secretary, said he welcomed the under pressure from unions repre­senting U.S. truck­ers, refused to implement the pro­visions. 
Canada has a truck inspection program similar to the U.S. system, and its truckers are allowed access to all U.S. roadways. Mexico has no such system. and its 
trucks are only allowed within a
decision and said his agency 
20-mile zone north of the border, 
would work with truckers on 
where they transfer their loads
how to take advantage of the 
to American trucks. 
opening. 





ATION 
Wednesday, February 7, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES 
page 5 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Eritrean agrees on a buffer zone: 
/\ftcr months in a stalemate. senior Ethiopian and Eritrcan ofiicials agreed Tuesday to set up a ll.N.-patrollcd buffer zone in an area where the two neighbors fought a bloody border war for 2 1/2 years. A 16-milu-wide temporary secu­rity zone will bo established starting Feb. 12. The plan wquircs the Ethiopian army to with­draw from territory inside Eritrea that it has occupied since last May, as well as the reposi­tioning of Eritruan forces, the statement said. 

Rain drives Bolivians from homes: 
Weeks or rain, the heaviest to hit Bolivia in recent y<"ars. have driven thousands from their honrns across the country, the govern­ment said Tuesday. News reports said at least 20 people have been killed as a result of the steady downpours. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Study shows TV sex on the rise: 
Sexual content on television has risen sharply since 1997, showing up in two of every three programs last season, according to a study released Tuesday. Hesearch conducted for the llenry J. Kaiser Family Foundation found sexu­al content in 68 percent of the 1999-2000 shows studied, compared with 56 percent in 1997-98. Such content includes talk about sex, Ilirling. kissing, intimate touching and depic­tions of intercourse. Fox's "Ally McBeal" and ABC's soap "Port Charles" were noted as hav­ing depicted intercoursn. 
Miami man goes on trial: A Miccosukec Indian accused of drowning his two sons by dri­ving into a canal went on trial Tuesday despite the tribe's attempts to thwart prosecutors. Prosecutors are seeking the death penalty against Kirk Douglas Billie, saying he murdered 5-year-old Kurt and 3-ycar-old Keith to punish their mother for rejecting and disobeying him. 

INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Man dies outside nursing home: 
The state has issued a warning to a Clay County nursing home where a resident died in the extreme cold after a nurse's assistant ignored an alarm triggered when the man wandered outside, a newspaper reported. Forest Collins, 84, died of a heart attack brought on by exposure to below-zero tem­perature the Clay County coroner's office ruled. llis body was found 68 feet from the door of the Cloverleaf home in Knightsville. Collins, fitted with a special safety bracelet, had a history of wandering outside. 
Market Watch 2/6 

Dow 


10,957.42 -8.43 

]ONES 
Composite Volume:

Si~;' • NIA

• 
Nasdaq: 2664.49 +21.28 

S&P 500: 1352.13 -2.18 
TOPS VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY  %CHANGE  SGA!N  PRICE  
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  •3.44  +1.18  3S.7$  
EXODUS COMM INC (EXDS)  tJ.6K  t0.69  19.44  
DELL COMPUTER (DELL)  +').99  +2.44  16.88  
MICROSOFT CORT' (MSFT)  I 1.01  ,0.62  Gl.56  
SUN MICROSVSTEM (SUNW)  -0.23  .o.06  27.81  

ISRAEL 


Associated Press 

JERUSALEM 
Ariel Sharon, the tough­talking former general dubbed "The Bulldozer," lived up to his nickname Tuesday with a landslide victory over Ehud Barak, the prime minister whose peace hopes were dashed by some of the worst Israeli-Palestinian blood­letting in decades. 
"The state of Israel has entered a new path, a path of security and true peace," the portly, white­haired Sharon told cheer­ing, chanting supporters at his campaign headquar­ters. 
"I call upon our Palestinian neighbors to cast off the path of violence and to return to the path of dialogue and solvi,ng the conflicts between us by peaceful means," he said. "I know peace requires dif­ficult compromises -from both sides." 
Sharon said President Bush had called to congrat­ulate him and to urge close cooperation, and also urged Barak to join forces with him in a broad-based national government. 
An emotion-choked Barak conceded defeat soon after TV exit polls pre­dicted Sharon had rolled over him with 59.5 percent of the vote to his 40.5 per­cent. Partial official results -about 25 percent of the vote -showed a nearly identical margin of victory. 
"The road we chose is the one and only true path," Barak said as backers, some teary -eyed, slowly waved blue -and -white Israeli flags. "The true path requires courage ... and it is possible that the public is not fully ready for the painful truth.... The truth will prevail." 
Barak, who said he would step down as Labor Party leader and give up his seat in parliament, did not rule out an alliance with Sharon, but made no promises either. 
"We should not rule out being part of a unity gov­ernment," he said. "If it is not possible, the Labor Party will be a fighting opposition, and will fight for what it believes." 
It could take weeks or months for Labor to choose a new leader, depriving Sharon of a negotiating partner in the rival political camp. 
Once complete election results are announced, within eight days, Sharon will have 45 days to form a coalition government and get it approved by Israel's parliament, or Knesset. 

USDA may sieze suspect sheep 
sheep in July, after a laboratory test Davis Buckley, a lawyer for the
Associared Press 

indicated that four animals were Faillaces, said they would appeal MONTPELIER, Vt. infected with a form of "transmissi­the ruling and asked the USDA not 
The U.S. Department of ble spongiform encephalopathy," a to physically seize the sheep while Agriculture can seize two flocks of family of illnesses that includes mad the appeal is pending. imported sheep suspected of carry­cow disease. "We're looking at our options, ing a form of mad cow disease, a The owners, Linda and Larry we're considering appealing but we federal judge ruled Tuesday. Faillace of Warren, and Houghton haven't made a decision," said 
U.S. District Judge J. Garvan Freeman of Stowe. appealed the Thomas Amidon, a lawyer for Murtha said the owners of the sheep ruling in U.S. District Court. They Freeman. imported from Belgium must com­claimed the science used in deter­Linda Faillace criticized the ply with an order issued last sum­mining that the sheep were infected Agriculture Department as being mer by former U.S. Agriculture was flawed. selective in its measures to prevent Secretary Dan Glickman to give up In November, the owners turned the potential introduction of infect­their herd. down a government offer of more ed meat and cattle by-products into 
The USDA moved to seize the 355 than $2,4 million for the sheep. the United States from Europe. 
~-------------------~ 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 7, 2001 
candidates has senate experience. but job as senate chair without having been "It's not like you're electing Chris and they said they do not believe it is neces­a senator. his clone, or Andy and his clone,"
Election 
continued from page 1 
Nelson friends, they arc also room­mates. 
"Fortunately, when the University put us together freshman year, it did a good job. Chris is one of my best friends here," Nelson said. 
Both feel that their friendship will benefit them if they are elected to office. 
"We'll share duties ... There won't be any animosity if one of us asks the other to do something," Nelson said. "I look forward to the prospect for us to 
work togeth­er." 
Zimmerman and Nelson first discussed running during last year's stu­dent body president elec­tion, according to Nelson. Zimmerman initially sug­gested the sary to be an effective senate chair. 

"I know experience matters, but I think what matters most in the election will be good ideas and a desire to do good things for the University," Nelson said. 
"I was never in the Senate," said Norton, who as current vice president has been running the group for almost a year. "As long as you like to work with P?,Ople, you can be chair of the senate. 
Not only is it possible for someone without senate experience to be its chair, it can also be beneficial to have an outsider as chair, according to Norton. 
"It also brings new Oavor to 
the senate. new ideas," she 
..We'll share duties ... explained. 
Other candidates added that
There won't be any ani­

what is important is for the mosity ifone ofus asks vice president to have some the other to do some­form leadership experience, not necessarily experience in
thing ... 

a particular group. 
"I do have leadership expe­Andy Nelson rience," Andre said. "! have been involved in this commu­
Student body candidate 
idea. so he is the one heading up the ticket. 
"Chris was the first person to say we should run, so that's why he is presi­dent," Nelson said. 
Although not roommates, Maureen Gottlieb and Victoria Fetterman are good friends and partners on the debate team, according to Gottlieb. 
"At the end of the day, we're friends. 
and I think that's the most important thing," said Gottlieb. "We didn't just 
come together as a ticket to run. We work together all the time" 
They first talked about running together a year ago, but did not decide definitely ootil the beginning of this semester, according to Gottlieb. 
"We both wanted to do it," Gottlieb said. "We picked each other." 
As for running mates Demetra Smith and Yogeld Andre, they met while studying in France last year. 
"We formed a very strong bond. We have a mutual respect," Andre said. "Yogeld was the first person who popped into my head," Smith said of 

Factors other than experience and strong working relationships my also play into the vice presidential selection process. One such factor is gender. 
Four of the six pairs in the race con­sist of one female and one male. 
While Becker said gender was not the only factor he considered in picking a running mate. he added that he felt it was beneficial to have a male and female running together. 
"I felt that it was important to 
'Tm not so far away
have a female to "I think you get more per­balance the tick­from freshmen. " spectives that way," said et," said Becker. Norton. a junior. She added "Women's issues that that such a ticket is
Brian Moscona

are very impor­"more representative of the 
tant." Student body candidate student body." 
Nelson said. "Chris and I bring a certain kind of diversity." 
Whether it is better for the candidates to be from different graduating classes was another point of disagreement among the candidates. 
Over the past year working with cur• rent student body president Brian O'Donoghue, a senior, Norton said she. has learned that there are many bene­fits to having a student body president 
and vice president from dif­
ferent classes. 
nity." 

Similarly, Henisey and Zeidler said that lack of senate experi­ence was not a problem for a student body vice president. Henisey has held leadership positions and knows how to run meetings, according to Zeidler. who credited Norton as having done a good 

Gender bal­ance is not nec­essary for a strong ticket but can help. according to Moscona. 
"I think it's important to have a male and female on the ticket because it brings a different perspective," he said. "It's important to have balance and to have those different opinions." 
Nelson, however, said it was an "incorrect assumption" to believe that he and Zimmerman are identical because they are both sophomore males. Nelson explained that they come from different parts of the country, dif­ferent high schools. and different fami­lies, and also do different activities on campus. 
'Tm not so far away from 

freshmen," sophomore Moscona said. "She's coming from more of an upperclassman's perspective." 
Becker, a junior, and McCord, a sophomore, similarly feel that coming from different classes adds to their tick­et. 
"It definitely helps. Student govern­ment is about representation for the whole student body," said McCord. 
Some candidates, however, feel that a sophomore could not be as prepared as a junior for the role of vice president. 
"I think it's one of our strengths that she has another year of experience," said junior Zeidler, referring to his run­ning mate, junior Henisev. 
her decision on a running mate. "I thought about a number of people, but in the end, Yogeld seemed like the per­son I should run with. He was very enthusiastic." 
For Smith and Becker alike, it was important to have a running mate who would be willing to voice a dissenting 


cover your butt.
opinion about platform ideas and other campaign issues. "[Smith} knew that I have different 

better yet, hel.p cover yourperspectives on things and that I would not be afraid to tell her when I dis­agreed," Andre said. 
In Becker's case, he said he noticed in 

[tuition].
the senate that McCord is not afraid to 
stand up for unpopular ideas, even if she knows she will eventually be out­voted. 
"That impressed me," Becker said. 
He added that because McCord has been a student senator, she has the experience necessary to run the student senate, a job required of the student body vice president. 
"Senate experience for the vice presi­dent is a must," Becker said. "Nikki's been there." 
None of the other vice presidential
/--------------­
:49¢co1~r ~ 
• . Copies•
I single-sided on 8.5" x 11" 28 lb I 
I l'ou'rr be amazeu by the qu~ii:t"· I 
i(Qpy SHop/ 
II  on~!~ortune Student Center ampus of the Un1ve,si1y.ot Notre Dame  II  
1  can 631-COPV  1  
:  FREE Pick-Up & Delive  :  

I C ry I
See store for details oupor, required Hurry • · 
\ Not va/1d with any other ~7r:~~~~,::~i/·I
--...... ____... ___ / 


College can mean maneµvering through a lot of different things, buttuition payments shouldn't be one of them. That's where Army ROTC comes in. Here, you'll develop skills that'll last a lifetime. Meet friends you can count on. And have a shot at getting a 2-or 3-year scholarship. Talk to an Army ROTC advisor today, and find out 
more about our scholarship program. We've got you covered. 
AR MY ROTC Unlike a.ny other college course you can take. 

Contact the Department of Military Science at 631-9342 

Wednesday, February 7, 2001 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
MEXICO
WEST BANK 
Palestinians willing to talk peace 
Strike supporters 
•r Pagemaker? 

' 

it.ii 

A fun job with at· look$l.Veat on a resume. 
It's that time again .... 
The Graphics department needs people. You could be one of them. If you don't mind working two to three on the nights 
Work for The Observer Ad Design Department 
If you are a FRESHMAN OR SOPHOMORE with Mac knowl­YOU pick, and pick up some experienceedge design skills, and want to work for a few hours a week, in the mean time then you are thecall Chris Avila at 634-0886 or stop by The Observer office in perfect candidate. It's a first come firstthe basement of the South Dining Hall. 
serve deal so be quick. 
You will not find a better job on campus! Great Pay!! 
Please send an email to jcuellar@nd.edu Very Flexible!!! 


Assodaced Press 
IV\MALI.AII 

The Palestinians said Tuosday they arc ready to con­duct peace talks with Ariel Sharon but warned that his hard-line program was a recipe for war. 
"We respect the Israeli peo­ple's choice and we hope the peace process will conLinue," Palestinian leader Vasser Arafat was quoted as saying by his adviser, Nabil Aburdcneh. 
Elsewhere in the Arab world. news of Sharon's victo­ry over Ehud Barak in the Israeli prime minister's race was met with dread. 
Yehiia Qabbani, 18, a Palestinian living in the al­Hussein refugee camp near Amman, Jordan. said Sharon "is a criminal and he killed all my family's hope to return to our home." 
In Kuwait, Mohamed al­Othman, a 40-year-old civil engineer. watched the election results on TV. "Couldn't they have chosen someone else, someone with clean hands?" he said. 
Saleh Noureddine, managing 
editor of the Lebanese news­
paper As-Salir. predicted more 
bloodshed. "There is little 
opportunity for negotiations. 
The door has been shut firmly 
by Israel," he said. . 
The Palestinians say negoti­
ations must resume where 
they left off last month ­
when Barak offered them a 
state in virtually all of the 
West Bank. the Gaza Strip and 
parts of contested Jerusalem. 
Sharon has said he does not 
Most were released days later, but a half-dozen remained in jail on various charges including robbery after they allegedly removed and destroyed university 
want to give the Palestinians of indifference, with many more land -beyond the two­Palestinians saying both men 
block university 
thirds of Gaza and 42 percent have a history of oppressing 
of the West Bank they  now  them  and that thev don't  
control -and is not ready to  believ~ their situation·can get  Associated Press  
relinquish  any  part  of  worse  under  Sharon.  
Jerusalem.  Palestinians do not have the  MEXICO CITY  
"If Sharon wants to talk about the peace process, he has to understand that we  right to vote, unlike Israel's Arab citizens. In the West Bank town of  About 1,000 supporters of a dying strike movement blocked branches of Latin  
have to begin where we left off, we cannot go back to point zero," said Saeb Erekat, a Palestinian negotiator.  Nablus, Abdel Salam Abu Boub, 37. a marketing manag­er, watched the election cover­age with his wife, Sana.  America's largest university and marched on Mexico City's main avenues Tuesday to commemorate the first  
"If on the other hand, Mr. Sharon starts to implement the program he announced during  As footage showed Sharon supporters dancing with joy, Abu Boub said, "We will see  anniversary of a police raid that ended their nearly 10­month school takeover.  
the election campaign. that is  them tomorrow on  the moun­ Members of the self-named  
to  keep the occupation of  tains near Nablus, building  General Strike Council barred  
Jerusalem, the (West Bank's)  settlements."  workers  of  the  National  
Jordan Valley, I think that he will be pro~.ucing a recipe for  He said with Sharon in power, he was braced for the  Autonomous University of Mexico from entering the rec­ 

w a r . Erekat said. Earlier in 

"If[Ariel] Sharon wants
the day, hundreds of to talk about the peace 
Palestinians process, he has to under­
burned pic­

stand that we have to 
tures of 

Barak and begin where we left off" Sharon in the West 
Saeb Erekat 
Bank town 

Palestinian negotiator
of Ramallah and said their upris­worst. "If he 

ing against Israel would con­tinue, regardless of who won.  ous ever made by an Israeli leader, many ordinary  which also included a sepa­rate march by about 200 stu­ 
In scattered clashes in the  Palestinians judged him large­ dents opposing the strikers - 
West Bank, three Palestinians  ly on  his actions during 17  university officials said 80  
were wounded by live rounds  weeks of Israeli-Palestinian  percent of the school's fac_ili­ 
and 43 hurt by rubber-coated  fighting.  ties were open and operatmg  
steel pellets fired by Israeli  More than 300 Palestinians  normally.  
troops. Gun battles erupted in two locations. Palestinians had  have been killed in clashes with Israeli troops. and  The same strikers had occu­pied and effectively paralyzed  
called for a "day of rage," but  throughout the fighting, Barak  academic  activity  at  the  
the clashes were relatively  enforced tight travel restric­ 260,000-student university  
muted by the standards of the  tions on Palestinians, in many  from April 20, 1999. until Feb.  
past four months. The mood across the West  cases barring them from leav­ing their communities for  6, 2000, when they were evicted at dawn by unarmed  
Bank and Gaza Strip was one  weeks at a time.  federal police agents. who  
arrested 430 students.  

tor's building and prevented reacts 
50 employees from leaving the harshly to 
school of political and social violence, I 
sciences by forcing them to expect a 
take off their pants and shoes, war any 
the government news agency time." 
Notimex reported. Although 
The students also blocked Barak's several other branches of the offer to the university. Accompanied by Palestinians members of unrelated radical at the nego­neighborhood activist groups, tiating table they later marched along was the Mexico City's main avenues. most gener­Despite the disruptions ­
equipment. The last six 
detainees were released on 
bail last June. 
The 291-day strike was launched to protest plans to raise annual tuition. which had been just a few cents, to the equivalent of $140. 
Early into the strike, the university backed down, but a small core of radical students continued to occupy the cam­pus. They pushed an agenda to reverse recent academic reforms and give students more power within the univer­sity administration. They also used the strike as a stage to denounce the free-market economy and Mexico's politi­cal system. 
The longer tho strike contin­
ued, the louder grew a chorus 
of opposition from university 
officials, students and parents 
who held their own marches 
and blockades to demand that 
the strikers give them back 
their school. 
Since then, the smaller core 
of strikers has occasionally 
occupied the rector's building 
and other facilities, but with 
only minor disruptions to the 
university. 
But the strike did major 
damage to the state-funded 
university. Last year, universi­
ty officials said new applica­
tions for undergraduate 
admission dropped from 
70,000 to 40,000 following the 
strike. 
Since then, the university 
has been working to restore 
its reputation as a respected 
institution that had educated 
generations of Mexicans for 
free. 
On Tuesday, TV broadcasts showed crowds of students carrying books and backpacks .gathered outside the entrances to several closed branches waiting to sec if they 
could get in. 

page 8 The Observer . NEWS Wednesday, February 7, 2001 
Appeals court weighs Microsoft's fate 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The appeals court weigh­ing Microsoft's antitrust case Tuesday . invited lawyers on both sides to debate whether the fed­e r a I j u d g e w h o ordered the com­p any' s breakup m a d e inappro­priate and biased comments in public. 
Last week, the software giant and the Justice Department agreed it was not necessary to bring up 
U.S. District Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson's extrale­gal comments in oral argu­ments later this month. 
But the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia wanted to talk about them, allotting one hour to discuss them. 
Jackson made critical 

comments about Microsoft 
Chairman Bill Gates as well 
as the appeals court during 
numerous interviews with 
reporters after the trial 
ended last summer. 
Legal experts following the 

case said the decision to 
consider the matter indi­

cates the court is likely to 
remove Jackson from the 
case if it is returned to the 
district level. That could be 
a major blow to the govern­
ment's efforts to prove 
Microsoft used anticompeti­
tive business practices and 
should be broken up. 
"That means there's at 
least one judge, perhaps 
more, that cares a lot about 
Judge Jackson's out-of-court 
statements, and they're tak­
ing this issue very. very seri­
ously," said University of 
Baltimore School of Law 
professor Bob Lande. 
Lande predicted the court 
will probably "slap him 
down" for his comments to 
reporters about Microsoft 
after the trial ended. 
"He spit in their eye," 
Lande said of Jackson. "He 
did it in a legal way when he 
wrote his own opinion, but 
his out-of-court statements 
were just outrageous." 
George Washington 
University law professor Bill 
Kovacic said Jackson's com­
ments will be an "awkward 
and difficult" topic in the 
courtroom, and will spell 
Jackson's removal from any 
further part in the case. 
''He's not going to have a 
part in the sequels, he's fin­
ished," Kovacic said. 
Jackson declined to com­ment on the court's deci-sion. 

After Jackson ruled in June that the Redmond, Wash.. company should be split in two, he gave numer­ous interviewers to reporters, filled with com­ments critical of Microsoft. Experts said Jackson went too far when he directly attacked the appeals court now hearing the antitrust case. 
In Ken Auletta's book "World War 3.0: Microsoft and Its Enemies," Jackson was quoted as calling the appeals court judges "super­cilious" and lacking practi­cal trial experience. He said they "embellish law with unnecessary and, in many cases, superficial scholar­ship." 
Jackson also explained one reason he took. the unusual step of issuing sep­arate findings of fact and conclusions of law. 
"What I want to do is con­front the court of appeals wHh an established factual record which is a fait accompli," Jackson said. "And part of the inspiration for doing that is that I take 
mild offense at their rever­sal of my preliminary injunction in the consent decree case, where they went ahead and made up about 90 percent of the facts on their own." 
Microsoft spokesman Jim Cullinan said the company looks forward to presenting its arguments. 
"We are ready to talk about any of the issues the court wants to talk about," he said. 
Justice Department spokeswoman Gina Talamona declined to com­ment. 
The appeals court also decided to devote a total of 90 minutes to discuss penal­ties against Microsoft. The company and the govern­ment had settled on only 60 minutes. 

Taken along with the deci-• 
sion to talk about Jackson, 
Lande said the court may 
think Jackson rushed 
through the penalty process. 
"That implies there's at 
least one judge that thinks 
there's a chance of a viola­
tion," Lande said. "so we do 
need to talk seriously about 
relief." 
Kovacic said the court will 
probably give less deference 
to all of Jackson's decisions 
throughout the trial, which 
could only hurt the govern­
ment's case. 
"It unmistakably diminish­
es the government's 
prospects for success," 
Kovacic said. "If (Jackson's) 
aim was to teach Microsoft a 
lesson, this was a perverse 
way of trying to do it." 
HAITI 

Talks collapse, turmoil continues 
party and the opposition local and parliamentary seats
Associated Press 

alliance blamed each other for in a series of elections last year. the breakdown, with mutual The Organization ofPORT-AU-PRINCE accusations of intransigence. American States said 10 Senate 
Talks collapsed Tuesday Gourgue, a 75-year-old seats won by Aristide candi­
between Haiti's opposition and 
lawyer and human rights dates should have gone to a
President-elect Jean-Bertrand activist, was minister of justice second round vote, and someAristide's party, and the oppo­in the ruling junta that followed countries threatened to with­sition immediately announced the ouster of dictator Jean­hold or rechannel aid throughits own alternative president a Claude Duvalier in 1986. He non-governmental agencies ifday before Aristide's inaugura­
was a presi­the govern­
tion. 

dential candi-ment did not
The 15-party opposition date in the revise the
alliance Convergence "The respect of
1987 elec­results.
announced former presidential democratic principles has 
tions that " T h ecandidate Gerard Gourgue as 
were aborted not yet been respect of
the country's provisional presi­by the army. democratic
dent, setting up a power strug­reestablished in Hati." 
The selec­principles
gle with Aristide. 

tion of has not yetOne of the Convergence lead­Gourgue (pro­The European Union been re­ers, Evans Paul. called for the 
nounced
people "to rise up" and peace­GOORG) as fully demonstrate their rejec­
provisional president was
tion of the president in front of 
revealed to The Associatedthe National Palace on 
Press by Hubert Dcronceray, a Wednesday, where he is to give 
leading member of 
his inaugural address at noon. 
Convergence. The Cabinet 
Convergence refuses to rec­
members in the opposition's
ognize Aristide's legitimacy as parallel government have yet to president, saying his party won be appointed. 
legislative and local elections 
Clones Lans, a senator in 
last year through fraud. The 
Aristide's party, criticized the opposition boycotted the presi­creation of an alternative gov­dential vote. 
ernment as a "mad dream." 
The talks, which began U.S. ambassador Brian Dean Saturday, had aimed to find Curran said Monday that "the common formation of a ground. and provisionalthe two par­"We want a compromise. government ties had set does not
Unfortunately,
a deadline of advance
Convergence wants to
midnight prospects for Monday to wipe the slate clean. " dialogue or a reach an solution of the agreement. political cri­
Jonas Petit
Negotiations sis." 
Lavalas Family delegate to talks
w e r e Aristide extended was re-elect­into the ed president early morning, but then failed, on Nov. 26, handily defeating according to those who were his six little-known opponents. there. His Lavalas Family party also Aristide's Lavalas Family won more than 80 percent of 
established 
in Haiti," the European Union said in a state­ment on Jan. 29, when it decid­ed to block $49 million in aid to Haiti. Some $17 .7 million. intended to help cover the country's budget deficit. also was suspended. 
In a letter to former President Clinton in December, Aristide offered to rectify the election results, include opposition fig­ures in his government and appoint a new provisional elec­toral council. 
The opposition rejected Aristide's offers, saying last year's elections should be nulli­fied and new elections should be held. 
"We want a compromise," said Jonas Petit, a Lavalas Family delegate to the talks. "Unfortunately. Convergence wants to wipe the slate clean." 
Aristide first won the presi­dency in a landslide electoral victory in 1990. 
The army ousted him in September 1991, and a U.S. military invasion three years later restored him to power. 





Antonia Castaneda 
St. Mary's University, San Antonio 



''Lullabies, History, and Memory'' 
Thursday, February 8, 2001 
4:15 P.M. 

112/114 McKenna Hall Presented by: 


-----. ---­
Wednesday, February 7, 2001 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Bush urges airlines to avoid strikes 
A.aoc:iatcd Preas 
WASIIINGTON 

President Hush urged the nation's four largest airlines and their workers on Tuesday to avoid strikns this spring and said 
he would "explore all options" if they arc unable to settle their differ­ences. 
"I am 


w o r r i c d Bush a b o u l strikes at airlines.... It could have a harmful effect on our economy," Bush said during a visit to a toy store in the Washington suburb of McLean, Va., to promote his tax plan. 
Urging agreements, he said, "The prcsidenl's gol some opportunities if they're unable to do so.... I will explore all options." 
In Lhe next few months, Delta will have to settle with its pilots, American with its flight attendants and United and Northwest with their mechanics. The four airlines combined carry more than two-thirds of the 588 million domestic passengers who travel on U.S. airlines annual­ly. 
The prospect of major dis­ruptions during spring break travel and summer vacations has attracted the attention of the White House, which last week began conferring with the National Mediation Board, the government agency that oversees labor relations in the airline and railroad industries. 
White House spokesman Scott McClellan said if federal mediation fails, Bush could declare an emergency and create a presidential emer­gency board to force an end to a strike for 60 days while it considered recommendations for a settlement. Those recom­men da ti ons would be non­binding. But Bush also could ask Congress to order the board's recommendations be followed, he said. 
The first pending strike could come as early as next month if' an agreement is not reached between Northwest Airlines and the Aircraft Mechanics Fraternal Association, which represents about 9,500 mechanics and cleaners. 
Both sides met Monday afternoon with National Mediation Board mediators and talked through the night until about n o o n 

Board next week. 
While United, the world's largest carrier, wouldn't com­ment Tuesday on the latest plan, there is no outward evi­dence the sides are budging. 
Joe Tiberi, a spokesman for the International Association of Machinists unit represent­ing 15,000 United mechanics, said there had been no com­munication between the two sides. 
"We're going in there ready to talk and complete an agree­ment," he said. But, he added, "our position hasn't changed." 
The mechanics, whose con­traci came up for renewal last July, have appealed to the mediation board to declare an impasse in the negotiations ­giving them the right to strike. 
The mediation board has 
been loath to 
start the 30­

Tuesday, "The White House d ay clock said Steve ticking
intervention now is
Lanier, toward a
premature, unjustified 
union secre­possible t a r y . and unprecedented." strike, partic­Negotiations ularly in light were resum­of the other
O.V. Delle-Femlne
ing Tuesday labor stand­
night and Union spokesman offs. The gov­
another all-night session was expected, said Lanier, who would not discuss details or progress. 
The union opposes the appointment of a presidential emergency board. 
"White House intervention now is premature, unjustified and unprecedented," said union spokesman O.V. Delle­Femine. "Continuing down this path will only serve to under­mine the progress that has been made so far." 
United Airlines also is in dis­pute with its mechanics, and both sides are being called back to the National Mediation 
"BUBYB, 1141 TB!" 
Have you been thinking about: 
• Living In an exciting city? 
• Studying in the nation's capitol? 
• 
Working In an internship? 

• 
Studying Public Affairs? 


Then the Washington Semester Program Is for you! 
Applications now being accepted for Fall 2001 and Spring 2002 Semesters. 
Open to: Sophomores, Juniors & Seniors From all colleges 
For more Information go to the Washington Semester website at: 
www ml cdu/-semcsterl 
or for an application, come to 346 O'Shaughnessy 
Deadlln• •• Febru¦rv 
,,---...,~ 
ernment is 

determined to avoid a repeat of what hap­pened in 1966, when five major carriers were on strike at the same time, effectively shutting down commercial air travel in the United States. 
At Delta Air Lines, the 9,500 pilots represented by the Air Line Pilots Association International also are seeking to be released from mediated talks to strike if a contract agreement is not reached. 
The union said it plans to release results of a strike authorization vote on Friday, and pilots could strike as early as April 1. 
Judge orders power sold to California 
Associated Press 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. 

U.S. 
judge Tuesday tem­porarily ordered an electrici­ty supplier to continue selling power to the state, effectively extending an emergency fed­eral directive. Two other sup­pliers agreed they would con­tinue sales as well. 

U.S. 
District Judge Frank Damrell, citing the possibility of "obvious irreparable harm to the public," said Tuesday his temporary order requires Reliant Energy Services Inc. to continue sales at least until a further hearing on Wednesday. 


Wholesalers AES Pacific Inc. and Dynegy Power Corp .. not covered under the tempo­rary injunction, said they would continue sales until that hear­ing as said it should not have to bear the cost of California's energy crisis. 
Reliant lawyer Terry Houlihan said California utili­ties already owe the supplier $300 million. 
"What we are trying to do is stop the blood flow from our company," Houlihan said. 
Gov. Gray Davis' adminis­tration is spending $40 mil­lion to $50 million a day to buy power for energy­strapped parts of the state while lawmakers try to reach a long-term solution to the crisis. 
The state is buying power for the utilities because ener­gy producers have refused to sell to them directly, fearing they won't be paid. 
Davis said Tuesday the state Department of Water Resources has reached its 
first agree­
m ent on

well. 
"What we are trying to
The sup­long-termdo is stop the blood flow electricity
pliers pro­v i d e from our company." contracts, 
enough expected to provide
electricity 
Terry Houlihan cheaper
to serve 4 
million Reliant lawyer power to 
homes. Electricity grid offi­cials said losing that source could have produced rolling blackouts like the ones that hit the state twice last month. 
The Independent System Operator. which maintains the state's power grid, sought the restraining order on an emergency basis as the fed­eral directive neared its mid­night PST Tuesday expira­tion. 
President Bush had said his administration would not renew the orders. which were first issued by the Clinton administration and were extended by Spencer Abraham, Bush's energy sec­retary. 
Reliant filed a lawsuit against the system operator last week after receiving a letter it sent to 140 power generators asking them to agree to continue selling power after the expiration. The Houston-based company 
Southern 
California 
Edison and Pacific Gas and Electric Co. customers than the day-to­day buys. 
The contracts provide enough power for about 5 million homes and range from three years to a decade, water resources power advis­er David Freeman said. 
He did not disclose the pur­chase price or the suppliers. Legislation signed by the gov­ernor last week lets the state spend an estimated $10 bil­lion on the power buys. 
PG&E and SoCal Edison say they have suffered $12.7 bil­lion in losses from spiraling wholesale electricity costs. They have been unable to pass on their costs to cus­tomers because of the state's 1996 deregulation law. 
They hope a federal court judge at a hearing Monday will grant SoCal Edison's request to raise rates and pass costs to customers. 


SWITCHING FROM AN AVERAGE NEW CAR 

TO A13 MPG SUV FOR 
ONE YEAR WOULD WASTE MORE ENERGY THAN IF YOU . 
-Left your fridge door open for 6 years 
-Left the bathroom light on for 30 years 
-Left the TV on for 28 years 
SUYs emit 47% more air pollution and 43% more global warming pollution than the average car. 
-www.sierraclub.org 


VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 10 BSERVER Wednesday, February 7, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, No<re Dame. IN 46556 024 South Duung H..11, None Dame, IN 465.56 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
No~een Gillespie Tim Lane 
NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Macringly 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey 
SPORTS Eo!TORI Kerry Smith 
SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco 
SAINT MAR¥'s EDITOR, Molly McVoy 
PHOTO EDITOR: Elizabeth Lang 
ADVERTISING MANAGER, Kimberly Springer 
AD D.ESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR, Adam Tumer 
CONTROLLER: Bob Woods 
GRAPHICS EDITOR, Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0........•.••..631-7471 FAX..... ............ ····••·•• ··••····· .....................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EmroR/AssT. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS.......................................................... 631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 
observer.viewpoint.l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports.l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer .scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MAR\"'s............................................. 631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at bttp:llobrervu.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, spores, features and opinion columns. as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/ music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for pnlicies 
online features for spe­
and rates of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
sraff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither insritution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on concenr. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority ofche Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofche authors and not necessarily those ofThe Ohsef\'er. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions "Kllrding Obsm,,.,,policies ,houid be dim:t­erl to Editor in ChiefMikr Cr,,molly. 


All right. Here we go. Only 52 minutes. l can handle this. Just don't think about the time. Concentrate on the professor. Yeah. This sounds important. Like test material. I should learn this. Concentrate. 
Concen -that's a Scott Blaszak nice coat. 
Black leather. I should get a coat The Early like that. Then I Essays would be cool. Who am I kidding? I can't pull off a coat like that. You have to know your limitations. Right. Okay. 
51 minutes. Come on clock. Move. Wait. Don't look at the clock. Pretend it's not even there. . 
I think Shiny-Watch Brunette is looking at me. Maybe. Nice eyebrows. She looks very studious today. I should try to talk to her after class. Ask her to borrow her notes. "So didn't I see you at Corby's this weekend?" I could say. Or something. She'd probably look down on me because I didn't do the reading. 
Or maybe she'd like it. Rebellious. Brave. My own man. Like a young Steve McQueen. Hollywood Bad Boy. Hmmm. I'll talk to her next week. Yeah. It will be easier to pull off some time next week. Certainly. I'll even remember to.shave. Good decision. Okay. It's decided. Christ. I am a coward. 
Uh oh. Discussion time. God I hope she doesn't call on me. Look very unassum­ing. Look. Very. Unassuming. Oh good. Ask her. She'll know the answer. You can tell by her posture. Yup. I knew she'd have the answer. That's it. Keep talking. Keep talking. Keep taking up time. I tried to read it. I really did but the paragraphs were so daunting. Two or three-page paragraphs. Llke continents. 
I mean come on. I used to be a good stu­dent. Sophomore year I would've read it. Maybe even pursuedd it like she told us. Pursue. 
Yeah right. I used to be a good student. No more. Used to have this fear, this adrenaline-fueled anxiety that drove me to prepare for class or study for tests. Or come to class. Or buy the books. Back then I couldn't sleep the night before big tests. Now I can sleep through tests. Yeah. Well. Memories. 
Is that clock even moving!?! It's been like 3:53 for about 15 min -Oh. Very good then. 3:54 and I feel like a new man. Um. Hey you. Yeah. You with the high school class ring on. Stop. Just stop it now. Stop. Talking. Can't someone do something? He obviously doesn't have a clue what he's talking about. If you don't know anything keep your mouth shut. Like me. I'm not paying $30,000 a year so Mr. High School Ring Man can play professor. Of course I'm not listening. But at least I'd like the option. I wish the teacher would just tell him for once what she really feels about his insights. Just once. It would be good theatre. We could all eat popcorn. Alright then. 
Where we at? 47 minutes. Not bad. Now don't think about the time. Think about something else. Anything. Birds. Think about birds. Perfect. Birds. Okay. Here we go. Birds. Birds. Birds. 
46 minutes. Come on. Move. Clock. Come on. Move. Come on. Come on Eileen oh I swear well he means at this moment you mean everything with you in that dress my thoughts I confess verge on dirty ah come on Eileen. Good song. 
Wow. Listen to that girl swallow. Do I swallow that loudly? Sounds like a seal or something. Hmm. I wonder if other people are thinking these same kind of thoughts? Probably not. Well. Maybe. That guy in the corner looks like he could be doing this right now. Hmm. There she goes again. Swallowing. So loud. This is weirding me out. All right. Time for experiment. I'm taking a sip and listening. Here we go. Sip. Jesus I do swallow loudly. It's disgusting. I'll never swallow in public again. I'll get an 
LV. or something. 

Wait a second. What is she talking about? I'm completely lost now. Ubiquitous? What does that mean? I have no idea. But that guy in the corner is lost with me. He doesn't know what it means either. We're in this together. Shiny-Watch Brunette looks a little puz­zled herself. Or she doesn't care. Yeah. I think that's it. 
In fact. Look around. I think maybe no one is paying attention anymore. For all I know they're having the same thoughts I'm having. Except Mr. High School Ring Man. Five minutes ago the professor sneezed and he recorded it in his note­book. 
Kind of sad though. All these uninter­ested faces. In fact you sort of have to feel for.the professor. I mean here she's going on and on. And she's a smart lady. To this class full of people who don't care or probably don't understand what she's trying to say anyway. Uh oh. I can feel myself getting cynical here. 
Hey look at that. Only 39 minutes to go. Well I'll be. Now. Don't think about the clock. 
Scott Blaszak is a senior and his col­umn appears every other Wednesday. 

The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
DILBERT  SCOTTADAMS  
.___T_H_E_f_EA_T_U_R_E_C_P.._E_E_P_ BEING A FEATURE CREEP 15 LIKE HAVING A SUPER POWER.  _, § ~ i ~ ~ 8•  THAT'S WHAT MAKES ME SO SEXY.  THAT OOMP SOUND JUST BOUGHT YOU A NEW FEATURE I MISSY.  

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"I don 't know, I don't care, and it doesn't make any difference." 
Jack Kerouac poet 


IEWPOINT 
O
THE 

Wednesday, February 7, 2001 BSERVER page 11 

Material poor share in spiritual wealth 
llow should we as Christians handle lhe issue of lhe poor. of individuals liv­ing in physical poverty? In Matthew's Gospel, J«isus tells the rich young man, "'If you wish to be perfect. go, sell what 
you have und give Center for 
lo the poor and you 
will have treasure Social Concerns 
in heaven. Then 
For a More

come, follow me"' 
(19:21 ). Through Just and lhc Border Issues I /umane World seminar over Chrislmas break. our group rc0ccted on the meaning of this passage and sought answers to many challenging questions and ideas. 
For a week in January we experienced life along the El Paso-Juarez border. We slept through the freezing nights in houses of single-cinder block walls, lived without running water and shared in the joy of the families, children and commu­nity. One of the greatest challenges was understanding the happiness of the peo­ple who lived in what seemed to be such desolate and impoverished conditions. 
Families of six lived on less than one hundred dollars a week, making 60 cents an hour working in an American company located in Mexico. Yet the community seen at Sunday Mass and the solidarity of children running through the dusty roads kicking a deflating soc­cer ball showed an alternative life of happiness not centered around money and material possessions. Many people in the colonias had simple desires and lived a happy life. 
To help us understand the people's happiness in poverty, we learned from Father Peter and Sister Betty. two holy individuals committed to a life of assist­ing the poor in Juarez not physically but emotionally, spiritually and uncondition­ally. 
They spoke of the aura of beauty that they witnessed everyday in the eyes of their friends and their neighbors. They also expressed their disappointment with the growing commercialism. com­petition and materialism that continues to infect contemporary American cul­lurc, which in turn affects border cul­ture. 
To depict this problem Sister Betty provided an example of how a certain neighborhood boy took over $50 of his parent's hard-earned yet scant savings to cross into El Paso to purchase a pair of the latest urban-styled jeans. "IIe thought he just had to have them," com­mented Sister Betty. "He chose to put his family's hunger on the line for a material desire." 
After hearing from them, we were confronted with some challenging notions. At one ofend of the spectrum a majority of the American public is edu­cated on tithing, on contributing to the poor in the hope that they will rise out of their present condition to eventually 'ganar la vida.' At the other end of the spectrum people praise the physically poor and see them as the archetype of what it means to live simply. They believe that the poor have a well-devel­oped community emphasizing family values and cooperation. 
What are we to conclude? Should the poor stay poor? Should they rise out of their physical poverty? And in doing so,. 
do they risk living more like typical materialistic Americans? Does a balance exist between the two extremes of poverty with happiness or empty con­sumerism? What kind of change do we want to see? Do we want the physically poor to attain the same basic amenities Americans possess? What constitutes a truly happy and fulfilling life'? Do we want the poor on the border to eventually live as Americans do? Even though we feel that many individuals tend to favor such changes, they tend to overlook how ethnocentric ttiese perspectives are. Why should Americans decide what is the best remedy for the Mexican poor? 
Perhaps the best ideas for change should come from the poor themselves. Berta, a resident of Anapra, a Juarez colonia, told our group that too many 'wants' clutter one's life. Such a development can eventually lead to a form of 'internal poverty,' a state of lacking, a state where the soul is distant from the serenity of God. So is it best to do all we can to improve their physical state? Or is it better to not try so hard to 'change them' but instead to let the example of the poor 'change us,' relieving us (as Americans) from our internal poverty? 
In truth we found this issue very con­fusing and frustrating to solve. But as we struggle on a daily basis we must 
strive to create a system that allows people the freedom to choo_se their 
happiness. Part of' this challenge includes focusing on our own lifestyles. Our consumerism and materialism helps to 
perpetuate the restrictive poverty and economic injustice found in Mexico 
and in many other parts 
~ ~ 
of the world. Thus, as 
people who seek to follow 
Christ's example, we 
must actively strive to 
live simply and be social­
ly conscious. 
Today's article was 
co-written by several 
participants of this 
year's Border Issues Seminar. The Winter Break Social Concerns 

· Seminar examines immi­gration and related issues that surface between the ~ United States and Mexico through travel to El Paso, Texas and Ciudad Juarez in Mexico. Participants meet with refugees. work with parish organizations and discuss policy issues. The Center for Social Concerns· column appears every other Wednesday. The views expressed in this column 
are those ofthe author and not neces­
sarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Television misrepresents Asians 
I am a second generation Korean Canadian. It seems that by all accounts I have fully assimilated into Canadian society. I watch Hockey Night in Canada, not Korean soap operas; I listen to the Hip, not Seo Tae-Ji; I eat Kraft Dinner, not Korean instant noodle soups; I play ice hockey, not tae-kwon-do or kung-fu; and I say 'eh' sporadically at the end ofmy sentences. 
To be sure, there are gaping cultural diITerences between my conservative Korean upbringing and the more liberal Canadian environment that surrounds me. But when I walk down the streets people are not gawk­ing at me, nor are they snapping photos of me, nor are they pointing their fmgers at me in curiosity. There seems to be a sense of belonging and feeling at home. This makes sense since I and many other Asian­Canadians have been born and raised here. · 
Despite this sense of belonging many Asian-Canadians and many Asian-Americans have, it is not indicated in the media. We are rarely cast in television and film roles. Although Asian-Americans make up 7 percent of the population, only .25 percent of all television roles consist of Asian-Americans actors and actresses. 
Why is it that Magnum P.1.. set in Hawaii where the majority of the population is Asian, had a Caucasian and an African-American sidekick? More recently, the sit­coms Suddenly Susan and Dharma and Greg, which are supposedly situated in San Francisco, do not renect the 38 percent of the Asian-American population that lives there. MTV's The Real World has only cast three Asian­Americans in its nine years of being on the air-'--not really indicative of real world demographics. Finally, the CBS breakthrough show Survivor did not have any Asian-Americans cast in its first installment, nor will it have any in this year's Australian series. 
Asian-Americans are not only under-represented in the media, but when they are cast, they play stereotypi~ cal "Asian" roles. Asian-American actresses are exoti­cized and fixed with a male Caucasian partner to make it more "palatable" to the audience. The directors ofAll American Girl starring Margaret Cho purposefully de­raced the show and fixed her up with a Caucasian 
boyfriend to target a wider audience. Asian-American 
actors play the kung-fu expert or the passive emasculat­
ed unromantic geeky intellectual with buck teeth or the 
lost tourist with the big camera or a combination of the three stereotypes. All the while, they speak in broken 
English. 

In short, they are cast in "Asian" roles rather than rep­resenting fully assimilated Asian-Americans. As a result ofthe blatant discrimination, there has been a massive exodus ofAsian-American actors and actresses away from the screen to the stage. As East Bay actor Lane Nishikawa remarked, 'Tm much more interested in exploring the Asian experience in America than playing a Japanese banker in Rising Sun." 
Asian-Americans are not only under-represented, but also misrepresented in the media. Blatant racism and discrimination in the media has been an age-old prob­lem. However, there is no Jesse Jackson ofthe Asian­American/Canadian community to lead protests against these forms of racism. Years of activism have landed five African-AmP-ricans out of a cast of 32 on the show Survivor. Somehow Asian-Americans have gotten lost in the shuffie in what has predominantly been a black­white issue. 
I then urge all people -Asians. Caucasians and Africans alike -who oppose any form of racism and dis­crimination. to boycott shows such as Survivor, Suddenly Susan. Dharma and Greg and the like. A choice to boy­cott may seem drastic but this personal choice not only reaffirms your position against all forms of discrimina­tion and racism but it also adds a little to push along the process of change. 
Michael Sohn 
Canada February 6, 200I 
A laughing 
matter 
I was sitting around the theology department lounge today having a good laugh with some friends about Christopher Mirus's Feb. 6 letter about why the Latin Rite of the Catholic Church uses wheat bread. He is correct to say the choice of leavened versus unleavened bread is a matter of tradition, but claims wheat was the choice of Jesus. Actually, the one rubric which states the preference for unleav­ened bread is the same one which states the church's preference for wheat, giving the same rea­son for both: "according to tradition." (Don't believe me? Check out General Instruction of the Roman Missal #282) 
While tradition and scripture are intimately linked, they are two very different pillars on which the church grounds its teaching. Scripture teaches us that Jesus primarily taught (1) about Abba (not the music group, but God) and (2) the kingdom of heav­en. The number of' sacraments, the recipes for bread, oil and wine. the color and style of vestments, the order and words for liturgical celebrations and the sex of ministers are just a few things among thousands about which Jesus never spoke one word. 
But why were we laughing in the theology depart­ment? The Passover celebration is a celebration of the barley harvest. If the Last Supper was a Passover celebration, Jesus would have been eating barley, not wheat. 
Barley. 

Once again, a nice idea is proven wrong by a fact. 
Chuck Middendorf 
Graduate Student 
Department ofTheology 
February 6, 200 I 
'\..____ 

V I D 
en@ M E s 
page 12 Wednesday, February 7, 2001 
PlayStation 2 can't 
compare with old 
school Nintendo 

During vacation. I played "NFL Madden 2001" while in "party mode" at another institution of higher learning known as UCLA. 
This "party mode" made me both more relaxed and confi­dent that I could judge just how fun PlayStation2 is, especially for potential players in my condition. 
My friend Jeff, who was also "feelin' groovy," picked up the PlayStation con-Jeff Baltruzak trollers with me. We immediately tried to find the A and B buttons, and Select and Start if possible. But we couldn't. h 
What led to our confusion? There were S ort Circuits lots of buttons on the controllers, in lots of colors. They had weird symbols on them like an X, a circle and a triangle, but no A button or B button. 
Once Jeff and I finally made it past the opening screen, we had to make countless choices about the game we were going to play. Choice after choice after choice concerning difficulty level, the stadium and the weather conditions. 
We started to play, and l had to pick almost 100 plays every time. I just wanted to run up the middle on third-and-9 in honor of my personal hero Bob Davie, but I couldn't find the play. 
The sharper graphics of PlayStation2 didn't really do any0 thing for me, because it was all blurry anyway. 
Not surprisingly, I don't remember who won, and I didn't care. We quit after a half because it took forever. It just wasn't fun for someone who "didn't know when to say when." 
We returned to Jeffs dorm and decided to play an old clas­sic, "Tecmo Super Bowl" for the good ol' Nintendo. I had to blow on the game for a while, and fidget with the Nintendo, but it eventually worked. 
Unlike the high-tech PlayStation2 games, "Tecmo Super Bowl" has eight plays and uses only two buttons. The graphics look like a first grader drew them with his left hand. Most of the players featured in the game are now retired and selling knives door to door. 
When you score a touchdown, "Tecmo" shows the same ani­mation every time. There is no instant replay. You can't go for two. The quarterback for the Raiders is Jay Schroeder. Oh, and that's the Los Angeles Raiders. 
But despite having too much "nectar of the gods" that night, I could still play Tecmo like a champ. Bo Jackson ran for 200 yards. I laughed when I scored, I cried when I lost (not really), but most importantly, I had a great time. 
"Super Tecmo Bowl" is the most fun game I've ever played. rts simplicity makes it fun. You can actually talk (or slur) to someone while you play. It doesn't consume all your attention like "Madden 2001" and kill your "fun buzz." 
I believe that in many cases, video game designers design the fun right out of their games. With each extra button, they make the game that much more complicated and that much more difficult to master. 
The majority of today's games are marketed at hard-core video game players that find new ripples as personal chal­lenges. 
Buf many people just want to pick up the controller and have fun, not spend time trying to learn how to play the game.. These are the people that don't get video game magazines, or go on the Internet to find out how to beat a level. 
For those of us who like these kind of fun games and who traded their Nintendo for an autographed Ron Powlus football, I also suggest "Mario Tennis" for the Nintendo 64. 
"Mario Tennis" is really simple and really fun. It has easier levels that can be mastered quickly, and much more challeng­ing modes for those hard-core folks trying to fill their time in between Dungeons and Dragons tournaments. 
"Madden 2001" is a good game, so good you might confuse it with an actual NFL game. But there comes a point where if you \Vant to become that real and that in-depth into football, you should just get nine friends together and go play in the park. · 
Or revert back to the days of Nintendo. Sometimes simple 8­bit graphics and old school players are just more fun. · 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

ByADAM TURNER Scene Video Game Reviewer 

As we move through life, a few things are con­stant. Engineers get no play. The best way to a woman's heart is not through haiku poetry. Fish and peanut butter do not go together. 
And if Nintendo produces a game with the title "Zelda" in it, it's going to be a solid, quality addi­tion to your collection (except for that second one, which was like passing a kidney stone}. 
"The Legend of Zelda: Majora's Mask" is a crowning achievement for the development staff at Nintendo, recreating a classic in a bas­tardized gaming world dominated by first per­son shooters and fighting games.· 
While some still consider "Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time" to be the greatest game they ever played, "Majora's Mask" is a close runner­up. Once again, you, the player, are bidden to journey together with Link throughout a brand new land known as Termina, after defeating Ganon and leaving the land of Hyrule. 
While traveling through the woods ofTermina, a fiendish little imp known only as the "Skull Kid" steals your horse, Epona, and the Ocarina of Time. After this you are changed into a plant­like "deku scrub" and told that the moon .will crush the land of Termina on the day of the great festival, set to take place in three days. 
Next you meet another familiar character, the man from the Happy Mask Shop from Ocarina of Time. He informs you that your quest is to steal back Majora's Mask from the Skull Kid, who is using it for its evil power. 
This all sounds well and good, and almost sur­prisingly simple. Unfortunately, or fortunately, depending on how you look at it, this is the most difficult "Zelda" ever, both in terms of environ­mental changes and puzzle solving. 
You have three days to complete the game. Now you may think this means you must beat the game in 72 hours in order to avoid having the moon crush Termina. However, this is not the case. 
Each day in the game translates to about 30 minutes in real time. Thus there are about 90 minutes between the start of the game and the moment where the moon crushes the land. 
This impossible hurdle is jumped by being able to warp back in time to the dawn ofthe first day, and continue throughout the game, warping back occasionally when the moon is about to fall again. 
As opposed to other "Zelda" games, "Majora's Mask" contains only four temples, each referring to elements: swamp, mountain, ocean and canyon. Each boss holds a mask. which serves as his remains. 
This is the same concept as the medallions in ''Ocarina of Time" -the masks don't really do anything, but you must have them all to com­plete the game. To fill in the loss of gameplay, these temples are enormous and tremendously difficult to complete. 
In addition to temple difficulty, another added concept in "Majora's Mask" is a notebook, which keeps track of certain people you meet that are in need of assistance at a certain day and time. 
As you perform small side quests for these people, they give you various rewards that aid you in your search for the four guardian masks held in the temples. 
The most innovative addition in this game is the masks, which played an insignificant role in "Ocarina of Time," but provide most of the amusement for "Majora's Mask." 
There are three masks that Link can collect that change his form, in addition to 24 masks that are used for various circumstances throughout the game. 
Once collected, putting on a mask can morph link into either a Deku Scrub, who can burrow into the ground and do other things (this mask stinks), a Goron, whose species is from the mountains and is capable of rolling around, (which is pretty cool, although it sounds like it stinks) and the Zora, whose species is from the Oceans and possesses an electric attack (which is pretty sweet). 
Other masks serve as objects of side quests, which are just fun to collect and use if you have a desire to pick the game apart until there isn't anything left to do. 
The timeframe in "Majora's Mask" is a giant misconception, especially for the casual player who just wants to pick up the control and casu­ally play for an hour or so in between studying or going to class. Or those die-hard players who will even skip class in favor of playing "Zelda." 
If time is running short in the game, you choose to either play the song of time or get crushed by the moon. If you play the song, you warp back to the first day, and you lose your non-permanent items -things like money, arrows, bombs and anything you're carrying in a bottle. 
But you don:t lose the capacity to carry these things. You also don't lose the guardian masks that you may have collected. but the temples that you've played will revert to the way they were when you first entered them, with no puz­zles solved. 
This becomes increasingly complex. For exam­ple, one of the greatest annoyances of "Majora's Mask" comes from playing a temple. If you have to warp back to the first day when the thi-rd night comes, the game effectively erases every­thing previously accomplished in solving the temple puzzles. 
This is the most infuriating concept ever, except for the presence of the physics depart­ment at this University. 
Overall, "Majora's Mask" is an incredible and highly recommended game. If you like "Zelda," and you don't own this game, you should be pummeled with small animals. 
V I D 
M E s 
Wednesday, February 7, 2001 
page 13 

Magic of 'Final Fantasy IX' creates best in series 
By JOSE CUELLAR 
Su:nc Video Game Reviewer 
Known as one of the most popular series in the role-playing game genre, "Final Fantasy" returns with its ninth installment under this title, the last to app11ar for the PlayStation console. 
"Final Fantasy IX" is a great overall game. Tho rull motion videos a.re incrndiblo, with grnat dotail. The 
graphics am a step higher than 
Heturning to the world of 
those from previous titles, and 
knighl'l and mages, this storythe music is just as impres­
begins when a group of 
sive. thieves is sent to kidnap the Composer Nobuo Uematsu princess of a nearby king­has written the music for all dom. The princess, Garnet 
the "Final Fantasy" install­
til Alexandros the 17th, ments. Since this is the last bored of her life of roy­"Final Fantasy" for the 
alty. instead runs PlayStation, Uematsu decid­
away with the kid­
voice -Garnet the princess. 
Unlike "Final Fantasy" VII and VIII, this ninth installment has a great mix of old and new. The creators wanted to return to the style that made the series popular. 
Some of the old elements that creators kept are knights and mages, airships, the job system and having abilities deter­mined by the job. New elements include learning magic and an improved level of involvement in the game. 
Now tho player can decide whether or not the character is impervious to attacks, and whether or not the player helps in that situation. With the introduc­tion of "active time events," the player can decide what to watch. These active time events provide the option ofjumping to scenes that are happening all at the same time. 
Also, in "Final Fantasy IX," the Moogles are back. These characters return with different jobs, and some will ask for favors. The Moogles enable players to save their progress, use their tents and regenerate their party. 
The characters in "Final Fantasy IX" 
draw you into the game. Each char­
acter has a past that haunts them 
throughout the game. 
By MATT ORENCHUK 
Scene Video Garn< Reviewer 
Throughout the years, Nintendo has given its fans some great games. From the original ''Super Mario Brothers" all the way up to "Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time," Nintendo puts out high quality games year after year. 
One of the latest installments for Nintendo's N-64 platform is "Mario Tennis." This game is exactly as i1 sounds. Just like "Mario Kart," this game uses the 
The second part, which makes "Final Fantasy" a great series, begins when the party finds out that a power larger than what they expected is actually behind. or controlling, the queen. 
The magic system in this ninth install­ment is similar to the "Final Fantasy" titles before the game jumped to the PlayStation console. "Final Fantasy" VII and VIIl both had a magic system that enabled every character to use every magic. 
"Final Fantasy IX," on the other hand, has a system that gives characters cer­tain abilities depending on their role. 
A white mage can use magic that pro­tecl'l and heals characters. A black mage can only use magic tha:t harms enemies. A blue mage uses magic that he learns. 
or in this title, eats, from enemies. 
Knights and dragon knights 

"Final Fantasy IX" features a retum to the old magic system and a cast of new characters like Freya ( right) and Vivi (left). 
"Final Fantasy IX" contains so many tasks and secrets that it would take a long time to mention every single one. Fans of the series should instead seek to find them out for themselves, for this game should be considered the best in the series. 
Enjoy this game if you have the energy and the time, because "Final Fantasy IX" was made for the long haul. 
And for those who end up playing this game and become trapped in the eighth hour of non-stop playing, about to be defeated by a powerful foe, remember these words from an old "Final Fantasy" commercial: "The fate of the world is in your hands .,. You are up against ene­mies of incredible power ,. . If you win, you will be a hero ... If you lose, you can always hit the Reset button!" 

receive help from beasts and 
have magic that is used with 
ed to do something that was 
nappers, led by their weapons. Summoners 
unheard or for previous titles: the thief Zidane. 
"Final Fantasy IX" is the first 
Before leaving supernatural beings called 
title to have a character with a the kingdom, a eidolons who cause a great 
black mage, Vivi, deal or damage. 
joins them in their Items and weapons 
flight and the acquired throughout princess' bodyguard, "Final Fantasy IX" provide Steiner of the Knights of skills and abilities that Pluto, tags along to pro­empower each character tect her. Along the way in different ways. They they meet Freya, a dragon raise important stats in knight, Eiko, a summoner, the characters that 
Quina, a blue mage, and increase their power and Amarant. a martial arts defenses against abnormal expert. status. 
Like all stories involved in These acquired weapons "Final Fantasy" titles, the first and items can also be com­part of the story seems easy. In bined to produce new ones. this case, the princess is to return, Synthesizing shops in cities join to find out about her mother, who is weapon shops and item shops as trying to invade the world and to per­important stops of the journey of the suade her to stop. game. 
'Mario Tennis' challenges novices and pros alike 
"Mario" characters in a tennis game. But this game is far more than just Mario and 
Luigi running around on a tennis court. Mario 
Tennis is a superb tennis game. Just what is it that makes Mario Tennis so great? The game can be picked up ve~y easily, yet it is hard to master. Anyone can pick up a controller and press the A button to hit the ball back to your opponent. Nonetheless, the mastering of drop shots, lobs and volleys will take time and keep this game interesting. 
One drawback of "Mario Tennis" is that the game is very frustrating. For example, even though you lose a set 6-0, you still feel like you were one or two shots away from being in the set. 
Players may feel like they aren't getting any better at the game, especially if they are playing against some­one who has played the sport in real life. 
For those who have never played tennis before, it mav be diffi­cult to get th·e hang of the different shots and the instinct needed to play the game well. 
Yet the game is frighteningly addicting and will keep you coming back for more. 
"Mario Tennis" has everything that a great tennis game should have. Characters play differ­ent types of games. Some are speedy, some play a technique game and some have a power game. 
In addition to Mario, Luigi, Toad and the Princess, "Mario Tennis" introduces new characters like WaluigL Waluigi is an evil version of Luigi, basically a counterpart to Wario, who is also in the game. 
There are also several other options besides sin­gles for "Mario Tennis." There is a tournament mode, with different cups played on grass, clay and artificial surfaces. There are two mystery players that are revealed when you win one of the tourna­ments. There is also a skill tester on the game. 
One game mode has rings on the court, and play­ers try to hit so many of the rings in a certain amount or time. Another game fires tennis balls at you, and you have to try to return as many as possi­ble out of 50. 
"Mario Tennis" ranks up there with "007 Goldeneye" and "NFL Blitz." These games could be called "dorm games," as many a college student has spent late nights with their roommates playing "Blitz" and "007," competing and trying to master techniques. "Mario Tennis" looks to be the same type of game. 
One game of "Mario Tennis" takes only 15 min­utes. which means that the game can be played to relax after class without a huge time commitment. At the same time, you can also play "Mario Tennis" for several hours and not even realize it. 
One of the most interesting things about the "Mario Tennis" phenomenon is that it is not limited to just guys. Not many girls seem to play "Goldeneye" or sports games like "Blitz" and "NHL Hockey." But "Mario Tennis" seems to have caught the attention of guys and girls alike. 
This makes "Mario Tennis" a fun game for every­one to play, as it is not just an after parietals guys' game. 
Nintendo seems to have done no wrong with "Mario Tennis," It is fun, entertaining, and best of all, a high quality tennis game. 
So fire up the Nintendo-64, because "Mario Tennis" is a keeper. 


T H 


~ne R E 
page 14 
Wednesday, February 7, 2001 



From romantic moments between Sky Masterson (Tommy Curtin) and Sarah Brown (Tricia Gilbert) to full cast song and dance numbers and a bunch of unlucky gamblers, "Guys and Dolls" brings plenty of laughs to Washington Hall. 
photos by: JOSE CUELLAR 

'Guys and Dolls' make musical success 
Strong cast ofPE Musical Company entertains with song, dance and humor 
Their efforts have clearly paid off. The musical gleams Detroit. His easy-going attitude and acting ability is per­By CHRISTINA MARTINI with professionalism and every character, supporting or fect for the conniving yet lovable crapshooter. Scene Writer principle, is extremely talented. Tommy Curtin plays Sky Masterson. the gambler who 
The show is fast-moving, as each cast member devotes pursues Sarah Brown. Finesse and sensitivity are needed 
A rich blend of vibrant music, impressive dance moves, their all to the lines, songs, dance moves and jokes. "Half for this part, and that's exactly what Curtin gives. "Guys eye-catching cast numbers, colorful comedy, well-honed of the funniest people on campus are in this show," said and Dolls" marks Curtin's third performance with the New York accents and raw talent combine to produce a junior Alan Maginn who stars as Nathan Detroit. Company. premium Pasquerilla East Musical Company perfor­"The auditions were the hardest part," Checchia said. "I always loved theater and it's especially great with a mance of Frank Loesser's classic musical. "Guys and Out of the 120 students who auditioned, only 29 were company like this," Curtin said. "The people you meet Dolls." chosen. make the experience -that's what lasts." 
The musical. opening Thursday, is directed From the large pool of budding actors and Detroit's fiancee of 14 years. Miss Adelaide, is played by senior Matt Baggetta and senior assistant "Guys and actresses, several freshmen were selected and by the talented junior Heidi Kellner. Kellner's petite Tiana Checchia, also the show's choreograph-one, Tricia Gilbert, was even given the princi­frame and powerful voice make a great combination on
Dolls" 


er. ple role of Sarah Brown. stage 
"Guys and Dolls" is set in New York City and Presented by the Gilbert has vocal. acting and dancing talent. Kellner's character is distinctly humorous. "This was a tracks the back-alley shenanigans of well-Pasquerllla East Her voice is superb and she plays the role of fun role because Adelaide is a really upbeat character," known gambling coordinator, Nathan Detroit. Sarah with maturity and style. said Kellner. "People like her and she is challenging to
Musical Company

The plot is centered on Nathan's scheme to She admitted that performing in "Guys and play." rent out a location for the "Oldest Established . Where: Dolls" was a huge commitment, but that she Because of Detroit's elusive marriage promises, Permanent Floating Crap Game in New York." could not help but throw her whole self into it. Adelaide develops a psychosomatic cold that leaves her
Washington Hall 

To raise the $1,000 he needs to rent out the Gilbert said fears about being a freshman in a perpetually sneezing. This adds even more absurdity to 
. When; Feb. 8 -

Biltmore Garage, he bets gambling extraordi­talented cast was quickly dissuaded. her extremely high-pitched voice. naire Sky Masterson, known for his high 10, 7:30 p.m. "The hardest part is coming in as a fresh­The humorous antics of Detroit's comical cronies, rolling and affinity for betting, that he cannot . Tickets available man and being unsure if people are going to Nicely-Nicely Johnson (junior Ryan Cunningham} and 
get a date with virginal mission worker Sarah accept you," Gilbert said. "It was definitely Benny Southstreet (freshman Ray Areaux) are also Brown. at Lafortune Ticket intimidating." entertaining. 
Amidst the crap shooting and glitzy gambling Office: $6 students, However. many fruits have come from her Cunningham and Areaux have a charismatic flare that scene. Nathan also diverts committing to a labor. "My life is never going to be the same makes the not-so-bright duo particularly likeable. Their wedding date with Miss Adelaide, his fiancee $8 non-students again," said Gilbert. "[The cast and crew] are duet which gives the musical its name -"Guys and of 14 years. a part ofmy life now." Dolls" -consists of a complicated yet precise tap act. 
"The cast is amazing," said Baggetta, who became The camaraderie among the cast is obvious. and that "Luck Be a Lady Tonight," an all-male dance number involved with the PE Company two years ago when act­chemistry contributes to a fast-paced, easy-viewing in the second act, is definitely impressing. The well­ing in the group's performance of "Gods pell." "They are show. "We're having fun. and happen to put on a show in choreographed moves show off the actors' rhythm and the most talented people I've ever been around." the meantime," said Maginn. the song's harmony displays their vocal talent. 
'"Guys and Dolls" marks Baggetta's first directing expe­This is not Maginn's first time playing "Nad-en" (as the Another fun full-cast number is "Sit Down. You're rience. 'Tm flying by the seat of my pants," he said. main character's name is pronounced by the gambling Rockin' the Boat," a big closing act performed by Nicely­
Baggetta and Checchia chose to direct "Guys and gangsters). During Maginn's junior year of high school, Nicely Johnson at the Save-a-Soul mission. This is a well­Dolls" because of its large supporting cast. "We wanted he was also cast in the part. "It was neat to do the role known song that is energetic, catchy and pleasing to the to get a lot of people on stage," Baggetta said. again because I was able to see the ways I changed and eye -a wonderful end to a spectacular show. 
Both Baggetta and Cheechia said it was a hard decision how that affected the way the character changed," he Good directing, a wonderful cast, time, talent and dedi­to refrain from performing this year, but both feel the said. cation are expertly packaged together in this spring's decision to direct has been ultimately rewarding. Magnin's experience is evident in his performance of production of "Guys and Dolls." 
Wednesday, February 7, 20001 

The Obsero,er . SPORTS page l5 
NHL 

Red Wings extend win streak to seven against Senators 
1993-94 Florida .Panthers 2 at Nationwide Arena.
As•oci.atccl Press Byron Dafoe had 24 saves. eight goals -following a 1-0
when they play at Nashville on Brian Boucher stopped 27 victory over Florida.Thursday night. 
shots for Philadelphia, which The six goals were a season­DETROIT It was the second time in six Devils 4, Canadlens 0 
lost for just the second time in high for Buffalo, which hadn't
Sergei Fedorov scored his days the Blues and Blue Alexander Mogilny scored 
eight games. had as many as four sinceteam-leading 24th goal and Jackets tied 2-2. twice as the New Jersey Devils Boston took a 2-0 lead with Jan. 12.
the Detroit Hed Wings beat the Young unloaded a slap shot got all the goals in the open­goals 34 seconds apart early Dave Andreychuk had a goal
Ottawa Senators 4-2 Tuesday from the high slot that beat ing 12:05 to beat the Montreal in the first period. and two assists.
night, extending their home Columbus goaltender Ron Canadiens. 
But the flyers struck just as Richard Smehlik, Stu Barnesunbeaten streak to seven Tugnutt. Martin Brodeur, a Montreal quickly, scoring twice in a 69-and Miroslav Satan added 
games. Young's 26th goal slipped native, stopped 27 shots for 
second span of the second to goals for the Sabres, who
Steve Yzerman scored 3:55 through heavy traffic in front his 47th career shutout and 
rally from a 3-1 deficit. were forced to fly to New York into the game and the Red of the net -and was met by a fifth of the season. 
That's when Mikko Eloranta on Tuesday morning after an
Wings led the rest of the way. collective groan from a sellout Petr Sykora connected for 
fought through several East Coast snowstorm a dayThey are 6-0-1 in their cur­crowd of 18.136 at Nationwide the fourth straight game and defenders to feed Axelsson for earlier postponed their travel
rent string at Joe Louis Arena. Arena. extended his point-scoring 
the winner. plans.
Detroit goaltender Chris Robert Kron's · first goal streak to eight games. 
Boston took a 1-0 lead when Doug Gilmour, who reiterat­Osgood stopped 26 or 28 since November gave Sergei Brylin also scored for 
Andrei Kovalenko centered ed before the game he plans
shots. Columbus a 2-1 lead with New Jersey and Bobby Holik 
the puck to Jonathan Girard, to retire after this season,
The Hed Wings beat Ottawa 13:16 left in regulation. had two assists as the Devils 
who found Brian Rolston in earned his 900th career assist
at home for the first time In the overtime, Tugnutt improved to 3-0 against 
front. on Satan's goal that made it 6­since Nov. 26, 1997, made three spectacular stops Montreal this season. 
Holston swept the puck 2 early in the third period. lieIgor Larionov and Yzerman in the span of 10 seconds, Mogilny. who had 20 goals 
around Boucher for the goal. is the 13th NHL player toskated in on a 2-on-1 break in turn.ing away point-blank in 20 games before being held then took a hit from Daymond reach the milestone.
the opening minutes. shots by Ladislav Nagy, Daniel pointless in his last three Langkow and fell face-first to Petr Nedved scored for New1.ariunov held the puck until Corso and Bryce Salvador with games, scored just 1:50 into the ice. York when it trailed 3-0, andthe last second, delivering a just over a minute remaining. the first period. 
Rolston stayed there until a Mark Messier made it 3-2 with
perfect pass that Yzcrman With five seconds left, Sykora scored his 20th at 
trainer came out to tend to his first goal in 19 games. 
tipped past Senators goal­Tugnutt also had a save on 4:17 and Mogilny made it 3-0 him, and Langkow was given But Barnes and Andreychuktender Patrick Lalimc for a 1-Todd Heird en's shot on a with his 29th at 10:29. 
two minutes for cross-check­restored Buffalo's three-goal0 lead. breakaway after a setup from Brylin beat Montreal goalie ing. lead by the time the second
Fcdorov made it 2-0 at Pierre Turgeon. Jose Theodore for his 15th 
Only 34 seconds into the period ended.
16:45 of the first period when Turgeon and Dallas Drake just 1:36 later. penalty, Kyle McLaren's slap Rookie Jeff Ulmer scored his
he beat Lalime while being assisted on both of Young's Jeff Hackett, dressed for the shot from the blue line went first NIIL goal in his secondtripped up by rookie defense­goals. first time in 15 games, 
off of Flyers forward Jody career game to close New 
man Karel Hachunek. replaced Theodore to begin
Tugnutt finished with 39 Hull's stick and past Boucher York's deficit to 6-3. 
The Senators cut the lead to saves. Brent Johnson had 24 the second period. 
to make it 2-0. Dumont. tied for the Sabres'
2-1 at 10:28 of the second for the Blues. Hackett, who hadn't played Philadelphia scored in the 
goal lead with Satan, scored

period when Shawn Young's first goal came 4:21 since Dec. 31 after re-injuring 
final minute of the first when his 16th of the season and 
McEachern put a shot over his right hand, stopped 14
into the game. Turgeon placed the puck came to Michael first in 19 games just 1 :24 in.
Osgood's left shoulder into the a perfect lead pass on Young's shots as Montreal held a 27­Sykora during a scrum in converting a beautiful behind­top of the net. stick near the right circle. 25 margin in shots. front of the net. 
the-back pass from Barnes. 

The !led Wings restored the Columbus pulled even with a Mogilny opened the scoring He chipped it past Dafoe McKee snapped a 52-gametwo-goal lead at 16:43 of the power-play goal midway in when he raced in from the with 59 seconds left just as a goal drought, dating to last 
second. just seconds after an the second period. Canadiens' blue line and fired Boston penalty was expiring. season, with a snap shot 1 :13 Oltawa penalty expired. Lyle Odelein passed to a quick shot past Theodore. 
Jason Allison fed Guerin later that beat goalie Mike 
Brendan Shanahan scored his Deron Quint, whose drive Sykora took Holik's pass from behind the net for an Richter. 18th goal of the season, a from the point was redirected from behind the net and fired easy wrist shot to make it 3-1. Smehlik turned a turnover knuckler that went in the by Steve Heinze for his 15th from the slot. But Philadelphia tied it in the by All-Star defcnseman Brian 
right side of the net. goal of the season. His shot went in off second with its two quick Leetch into a 3-0 lead at Daniel Alfredsson scored a The Blues came in as the top Canadiens defenseman scores. 15:07, but Nedved scored his power-play goal with 4:41 left penalty-killing team in the Christian Laflamme's skate. When McLaren picked up an 17th goal 13 seconds later. Mogilny's second of the
in the game to make it 3-2. NHL. interference penalty midway Messier got his 17th goal of The Hed Wings clinched it It remained tied until Kron night gave him his seventh through the period, the Flyers the season, 11 on power plays,with an empty-net goal by scored. multigoal game of 2000-01. peppered Dafoe with shots 2:22 into the second period to 
Martin He has five goals against
Espen Knutsen's cross-ice until Keith Primeau found the make it 3-2. Lapointe with 14 seconds to pass to Frantisek Kucera on Montreal this season. net. Peter White scored 1 :09 It was only the fifth power­
play. the left wing drew the St. Holik got his second point of later to make it 3-3. play goal for the Rangers in Louis defense. the night as he assisted on 
21 games and it snapped
BryHn's goal. 

Kucera then passed through Buffalo's penalty-killing streak
Sabres 6, Rangers 3Blues 2, Blue Jackets 2 
the crease to Kron. who was at 29, spanning nine games. 
J.P. Dumont and defense­
Scott Young scored his se<;­

planted at the right post. Barnes made it 4-2 just 1:58
Bruins 4 Flyers 3 man Jay McKee scored for
ond goal of the game with 8 .2 Johnson was unable to get P.J. Axelsson scored the tie­Buffalo in the first three min­later and Andreychuk made it 
seconds left in regulation as 
back in time as Kron jammed breaking goal with 9:50 to 5-2.
utes as the Sabres sent the
the St. Louis Blues tied 
in the shot. play, lifting the Boston Bruins New York Hangers to their Satan scored his 16th goalColumbus. Kron's only other goal this to victory over the 3:43 into the third on a power
firth loss in six games.
The Blue Jackets still season came against Dallas on Philadelphia Flyers. play.
The Sabres didn't wait longextended their points streak to 
Nov. 25. All-Star goalie Dominik
Bill Guerin. the MVP of to break out of the offensiveeight games (4-0-2-2), match­Columbus improved to 3-0-Sunday's All-Star game. had a slump they carried into the Hasek was solid for the 
ing the second-longest ever 1-1 in its last five home games goal and his 200th NHL assist Sabres, who are 6-2-3 against
All-Star break.
for an expansion team. and 7-3-2-1 in its last 13. The to help Boston win for the fifth Buffalo had won just once in the Rangers in the last 11 They can tie the mark of the Blue Jackets arc now 12-13-2-games.
time in six games. six games -scoring a total of 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. co 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame o_ffice, 024 South Dining Hall. Deaclline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be p_repatd. .
CLASSIFIEDS The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observu reserves the nghr to cd,r all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
WANTED 
Would you like an opportunity to earn a $10,000 schOlarship towards next year's tuition? Looking tor an 
ND student to wor1< at a summer beach estate from 5115/2001 ­8/15/2001 in Eastern Long Island (Hamptons), New York. Live-in position (room and board provided) with beach.pool, and house respon­sibilities. Wor1< 6 days/ week Applicant must be very responsible, industrious, hard working, a sell-starter, impeccably well groomed. wilh a nice amiable person.alily. Room and board provided plus spending money and $10,000 towards tuition. Please send resume and a one-page statement on why you lhink YoU should be hired to: Box 153, 60 E.Chestnut St, Chicago, IL 60611. 
Tutor needed tor pre-caleulus St. Joseph High School student 
(219)-273-0322 
BLACK FEMALE ROOMATE IN CASTLEPOINT APTS. 
$350 271-7195 
FoR RENT 
3-5 bedroom homes close to campus 232-2595. mmmrentals@aol.com 
All lhe good homes are nol gonel Available 4 bedroom. Available 2 bedroom. Dave 291-2209 !Ilil!.Slfii~micbiam111w 
Live in Lafayette Next Year 5 bdrm. Wastvdry $1305/mlh call marty 
232·1306 

Rooms fo, rent & share home. 65­75 week includes utilities and cable. 
233-4013 

TICKETS 
Need tickets to Nd v. Seton Hall on 2118 Call 243-9306 
WANTED: 2 tickets for the 2/18 men's basketball game vs. Seton Hall. Please call 4-3593. 
FOR SALE 
Beautiful brass bed, queen s~e. with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe trame. All new, never used, still in plastic $235 219-362-2082 Phone cards 
$20: 2601 min with .49 cent surcharge or 
$20: 

362 min with no tees 
634-4210 Sara or 634-1146 Claudia 
1998 Mitsubishi 3000GT 
27,000 mites automatic red/black leather interior 
lOCD 

premium sound alloy wheels tinted windows eKCeflent condition $20,000/offer 
call: 219-315-0939 
PERSONAL 

"Bed and Breakfast" in private home for JPW & Graduation week­ends; 3 bdrms w/prillate bath in lovely neighborhood 10 min. from campus 234-2626 
V1saRebates.com is giving away FREE Visa cards with flight miles on any airline, merchandise points, and more-an FREE. And they're paying mHlions of dollars lo those who refer new Cardohlders. see more at http://www.visare­bates.comtlnde,c.cfm? ReterralD~Hoodie Questions? Email !tl!:imt!l[Ul2@eactblio~ . el 
Thanks for the voles, News Dept. I'm not sure whether or not we should feel honored. 
I never claimed to be engaged, I 
only claimed to dream. My class 
ring is still renting that linger until 
graduation. 
I guess I might try on dresses -col­ored ones, though. 
Hey youl Quit playing "I.I You're 
Gonet• I love MB20, but enough is 
enough! 
Suppressed Dead Sea Scrolls & Nag Hammadi Codices Research: www.geoclties.com:BOIAthens/Rho des/7031/deadsea.html 
When 1s it time to go home? 
I want to go to bed. now 
go pants. 
cute pants. 
Wednesday, February 7, 2001 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
NBA 
Robinson arrested on drug charges 
Attention Sophomores Interested in Business 
Here's an opportunity for you to learn about the University's accounting system while gaining valuable experience as Assistant Student Union Treasurer. 
As an Assistant Treasurer you will: 
•Be 
responsible for managing, consulting, and maintaining various student accounts 

•Serve 
as financial liaison for The Shirt Project ($200,000+ revenue operation) or for the Student businesses (Adworks, Irish Gardens) 

•Sit 
on the Financial Management Board as a nonvoting member 


This commitment requires approximately 5-6 hours per week and further it is a possible two•year commitment, as one assistant shall take over the role of Student Union Treasurer the following year. 
Applications are now available outside the Treasurer's Office (Jrd floor Lafortune, in the CRC) Applications are due no later than 5pm Frida~; February 9th Interviews will be held Monday, February 12t (Please sign up for an interview upon submitting your application) 
Questions? Contact Jennifer Wolfe at jwolfe@nd.edu or the Office of the Treasurer at 631-4557 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX 

Cliff Robinson rebuilt his career with the Phoenix Suns. Now, he's the third member of the team to run afoul of the law in less than two months. 
"Everything that we've been going through," a chastened Robinson said Monday. "This is another shot that we didn't need." 
Robinson was arrested early Monday in Scottsdale on charges of possession of marijuana and suspicion of driving under the influence. He joined Jason Kidd and Penny Hardaway on the Suns rap sheet. 
Robinson knew he added 
to a serious "I definitely want to ple fall," image problem Colangelo said.
apologize to my

for the fran­"That's the
teammates and the

chise. point I'm trying "I want to organization for putting to make with say this is a everyone.
the added stress on the 

very embar­People make
team."

rassing situa­mistakes so we tion for myself, have to deal especially with it. ... This
Cliff Robinson 

under the cir­is who we
Sun's forward

cumstances that we've been going through," Robinson said Monday with Suns owner Jerry Colangelo at his side. 
"I definitely want to apologize to my teammates and the orga­nization for putting the added stress on the team." 
Kidd faces a charge of assault­ing his wife and has asked the fans for forgiveness. Hardaway was charged with intimidation in an incident involving a handgun, but prosecutors dropped the charges when the woman involved declined to cooperate. 
Colangelo, a deeply religious man who always has preached that he seeks players with high character, found himself defend­ing his franchise. 
"We have some guys on this team who are really quality peo­ple, and there are a lot of quality people in this league," Colangelo said. "I think it's inappropriate to pull down a whole group of players or a team based on the individual conduct of a few. 
"I have no idea what's going to take place with Cliff Robinson, but I promise you, I assure you he will be held accountable for his actions." 
The news conference with 
Robinson and Colangelo came in 
an incongruous setting. 
As the two spoke, the last of 
some 3,000 elementary school 
students were filing out of 
America West Arena. 
The children had earned a trip to a Suns practice in the "Quest for the Best" program. 
The program challenges the youngsters to come up with a way to improve their school. The trip to practice is one of the rewards. 
The last three players intro­duced to the cheering young­sters were Robinson, Kidd and Hardaway. 
Professional athletes should accept that they are role models, Colangelo said, but that doesn't mean they are infallible. He also said the organization does every­thing it can to select the right kind of people. 
"We want good people, we 
want solid citi­
zens, but peo­
have. This is 
our team right now. We have to rally our troops and get what we can out of this season. There's a lot at stake." 
Colangelo said that the collec­tive bargaining agreement pro­hibits him from taking any action against players until the legal issues are resolved. 
Robinson, in the second year of a four-year, $29 million con­tract, had been a model citizen and the franchise's most consis­tent player since he signed as a free agent in 1997 following some tumultuous years with the Portland Trail Blazers. 
Police said Robinson's yellow 2001 Porsche was stopped about 
1:30 a.m. because it was going 55 mph in a 40-mph zone and weaving in and out of traffic. 
Robinson agreed to a blood alcohol test, but results won't be known for several days. Police said they also found a pipe and a small foil packet containing what they believed to be marijuana. 
Marijuana testing was added to the NBA's new collective bar­gaining agreement before last season. Under the agreement, players who test positive for the drug must undergo mandatory counseling, and a second posi­tive test would include a $15,000 fine. 
Subsequent positive tests would result in five-game sus­pensions. 


CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

THE SUMMER SERVICE PROJECT INTERNSHIP 
• 
Devote 8 weeks to the service of those in need 

• 
Choose from 180 sites across the United States 

• 
Earn 3 theology credits (with possible crosslists) 

• 
Receive a $1900 tuition scholarship with the option for an additional $1000 Americorps Scholarship 

• 
Establish valuable contacts with Notre Dame Alumni 



LAST INFORMATIONAL MEETING 
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 7th at 6:00 PM At the Center for Social Concerns 
DEADLINE FOR APPLICATIONS: FEBRUARY 9, 2001 


--------------------------------------------------~----~---­
Wednesday, February 7, 2001 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
• 


FORTUNE' 
100 BEST 
COMPANIES§
TO WORK FORN 

Imagine looking forward to the week as much as you look forward to the weekend. Imagine spending each minute with unlimited opportunity and continuous options. At Ernst & Young we provide access to the most sophisticated and effective tools in the industry. See you Monday. 
ey.com/us/careers s!J f RNST& YOUNG 
FROM THOUGHT TO FINISH.TM 
C2001 fkN~I & YOUNv LL? 



page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 7, 2001 
Hoops 
continued from page 24 
tured during the early part of the season." 
Also missing tonight"s game will be forward Dallas Williams, who is ill and will not make the trip. 
Even playing shorthanded, Waites expects her team to put out a good effort. 
"That's going to be tough to play there but we'll go in there and try to do as best we can," she said. "We're going out there with few bodies, but we still look for a good out­come." 
In Notre Dame's last two games against Boston College and Providence, the Irish have struggled to build a sig­nificant lead -not leading by double figures until the final minutes of the first half in each game. McGraw looks to improve on that tonight. 
"We worked a lot on our offense [Monday] and I think we're getting back to being just a little bit sharper," McGraw said. "I think since we're playing at home that we'll shoot the ball a little bit better." 
Despite Notre Dame's supe­rior record, the Irish are aware that they must play the full 40 minutes. Letting up almost cost them a game in their last meeting with the Panthers. Last sason, the Panthers rebounded from a 22-point deficit with four minutes remaining to pull within six points before falling 81-74. 
"They pressed our bench 
and outscored us like 16 to 
four to end the game," 
McGraw said. "That doesn't 
really concern me. I think our 
bench is better this year. I 
think I have to be a little 
more careful about subbing." 
Students who attend the 
game will be treated to some 
early Valentine's Day treats 
and celebration. Contests 
throughout the game provide 
students the chance to win 
various prizes. including Taco 
Bell gift certificates. 
Tip-off is at 7 p.m. tonight 
in the Joyce Center. 


Doe$1~1Ji['~~ 
Put your business on the web 

qu~~~~ Ct:;!1 
STEAMTUNNELS.NET! 
t noticed by millions of potential cus-!3:i%i' 
:,«·-W·· 

mers with web advertising on I~{t'.: . teomtunnels.net, today's most success~/J::;:f.,:,, 
I online college mogo-: m··•. zine. ·-v 
Cody 
continued from page 24 

that he has yet to play a col­committed to lege game. But if the Irish Notre Darnel, I land Cody, Emfinger will ele­don't see how vate the Irish from his cur­there's that rent "16. 17. or 18" to "12 or much of a dif­13" in his national recruiting ference rankings. between those 
Thus far, Notre Dame has two players. In received 20 verbal commit­fact, Ryan ments. In addition to Cody, Grant's a little the Irish are b i t in the hunt faster."
"[Cody's] the
for North Grant's Carolina run­kind ofplayer situation ning back that Notre shows 
A I v i n how diffi­
Dame has
Pearman, cult it is 
who has nar-gotten in the to trust 
rowed his past. But recruit­
choices to i.ng ana­
they've slipped 
Notre Dame, 1 y st s' N o r t h in the past few predic­Carolina, years. They tions. Virginia and w h i l C
haven't been 
Northwestern. Emfinger · Lydell Ross, able.to get believes a running dominating G r a n t back from could be
players like 
Florida, may a great also sign with Shaun Cody." running the Irish. He b a ck , verbally com-Max Emfinger Lemming 
mitted a few says, "I
weeks ago Recruiting Expert 
t h i n k but changed he'd be his mind after visiting an All-Florida and Ohio State. American at Emfinger believes Ross will safety." sign with Florida and that Grant, a 6­the Irish trail Ohio State, as foot-1 200 well. pounder from 
"On my Web site I've had New York, ran for over 2000 Notre Dame people ask me yards as a senior. questions all year if they're Other top players who have going to get Lydell Ross or verbally committed to the some other big-name run­Irish include offensive line­ning back," Emfinger said. man Mark LeVoir from "But if you lose a Lydell Ross Minnesota, linebacker Corey and pick up a Ryan Grant [a Mays from Chicago and wide running back who verbally receiver Carlos Campbell from Virginia. 

The Irish have also received commitments from five offen­sive linemen and four defen­sive backs. 
But Cody is the real story on signing day 2001. The 6-foot­5 240 pounder is ranked fifth among Lemming's top 100 

Come listen to the candidates discuss their platforms at the annual 
Student Body Presjdent Candidat·e,s' De·bate 
recruits. 

"[Cody's] the kind of players that Notre Dame has gotten in the years past," Emfinger said. "But they've slipped in the past few years. They haven't been able to get those dominating players like Shaun Cody." 
};:;8:w,,­

... ;;;;.,w·For more info, ontact Lex at 219.631.6900 or end email to 
bservead@nd.edu. 

Wednesday February 7 at 7:30 PM in the 
Library Auditorium 
William  Edward  Hurghardt  
DuBois, to his admirers, was by spir­ 
ited devotion and scholarly dedication,  
an attacker ofi11justice and a delcmler  
offreedom. /\ harbinger ofBlack na­ 
lionalism and Pan Africanism. he died  
in scff-imposc<l exile in his home away  
•  from home with his ancestors ofa glo­ 
rious past-Africa. Labeled asa "radi­ 
.,.  cal." he was ignored hy those who  

Wednesday, February 7, 2001 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Programs & Services Room 21DLafortune 
the whole experience, especially in his final years in baseball he used his 
INTERCULTURAL CENTER 
athletic stature and popularity, to tum society's focus towards humanity Multicultural Student Programs and equality for blacks and whites. Robinson is heroic, in part, because and s1erv i1ce!!et(M51:s) fodcuses 0 " ofthe excellence ofhis athletic achievement~ and equally important, for 
ensur ng 1e r en ton an success · of historically underrepresented his political commitment to racial equality. He reaffirms for Blacks that 
students and provides opportuni-ours is a history ofstruggle, survival and accomplishment. 
ties for all students to explore is­sues of diversity, personal Iden­
tily, multicultural education, and leadership dovelopment. 
~tail: 

Iris Outlaw, Director 
M1//liwltura/Affairs andDiversityEduc.1/ion 
Kevin Huie, Asst. Director 
LeadershipDevf!!opmentand StudentPragran1ming 
Adela Penagos, Coordinator 
Academic Enrichmentand Student Success 
Phone: 219/631-6841 Fax: 219/631-3162 www.nd.edu/-m~ps 
Test your knowledge of some of the key events and happenings in Black history. 

~ 

. Marian Anderson. an artist and musician, was 
~,,. renowned throughout the world for her extraor­.; • • 

~ · " dmary contralto v01ce and remembered for her ;;.:-4?' '. ~ignity and g~ce under pressure. Before her death .. · l''. ·•. m 1993, Marian Anderson placed her personal
'i •··1 

,.,,. papers--including letters, music scores, programs, photographs, and sound recordings--with the Uni­versity ofPennsylvania Library. Tbankfolly, it is still possible to enjoy Ms. Anderson's renderings of Lieder and spirituals, get a glimpse of the preparation and performance ofher repertoire, and through the papers that she left behind, in­vestigate and understand how, when, where, and with whom her life took shape, which was en­riched, and became enriching not only for her au­diences but also for others in need. 
I. In the 1920s which African-American created and promoted Negro History Week'? 
a. 
George Washington Carver b. Harriet 1'11bman 

c. 
Carte,· G. Woodson 

d. 
Martin Luther 



2. Gcor~e Washington Carver is best known fo1· cultivating what? 
a. 
Cotton 

b. 
Peanuts 

c. 
Rice 

d. 
Wheat 



3. When he was a lawyer, what landmark court case did Thurgood Marshall win? 
a. 
Roe vs. Wade 


h. 
O.•J. Simpson vs. the State ofCalifornia 

c. 
Brown vs. the Board or Education 

d. 
Plessy vs. Ferguson 



4. Thurgood Marshall was the first African-American to sit on the Supr«'me Court. Which president appointed him? 
a. 
Ronald Reagan b..John F. Kennedy 

c. 
Dwight Eisenhower 

d. 
Lyndon .Johnson 



5. The NAACP distributes an award for the "highest of noblest nchievement by an African-American durin~ tbe preceding year or years." What is the name of the award? 
a. 
The Spingarn Award Medal 

h. 
The NAACP Award of Merit <.'.. The Hugo Awanl 


cl. The CAPl Award 

*t11kc11 ji'OIII /11t('://1!'1111: msnhc. comlmod1,lcslq11i:::esl bhm I 99'1_quiz.asp 

Dr. Patricia Hath is no miracle worker, though her skilled hands con­tinue to shatter darkness for the blind, Par Bath, who i~ now lilly-three years okL an internationally acclaimed oph­thalmologist and surgeon, the greatest 
:.,..,_,.. experience is saving or restoring the sight ofpeople a111icted by eye diseases like glaucoma or cataracts. "The ability to restore vision is the ultimate reward," said Bath. "It is a really great joy to remove eye patches the day aHer surgery and the patient can sec again." Dr. Bath is credited with a number of achievements during her almost thirty year career in medicine. Aflcr she earned a patent for a medical invention, she joined the surgery staffat UCLA Medical Cen­ter and faculty. She also co-founded the ophthalmology train­ing program at Martin Luther King, Jr -Charles R. Drew Medical Center, and much more. 
hoped that his massive contributions would be buried along side ofhim. But as Dr. Martin J,uther King, .Ir. wrote, "history cannot ignore W.E.B. DuBois because history has to reflect truth and Dr. DuBois was a tireless explorer and a gilled dis­coverer ofsocial truths. l Iis singular greatness lay in his quest for truth about his own people. There were very few scholars who concerned themselves with honest study oflhe black man andhe sought to fill this immense void. The degree to which he succeeded disclosed the great dimensionsorthe man." 
6. Who was the first Black woman from the South to sen in the U.S. House of Re1,resentatives and call for the impeachment of Richard Nixon? 
a. 
Shirley Chisholm 

b. 
Ann Richards 

c. 
Barham .Jordan 

d. 
Jane Addams 


7. Wltich African-American entertainer began his career at the age of three performing with his father and uncle? 
a. 
Hill Cosby 

b. 
Spike Lee 

c. 
Sammy Davis, .Ir. 

d. 
Flip Wilson 


8. Which civil 1·ights leader lms been referred to as the "Black Moses?" 
a. 
Malcolm X 

b. 
Louis Fan-akan 

c. 
Harriet Tubman 

d. 
Ma1·tin Luther King, Jr. 


9. Martin Luther King, .Jr. was the leader of which boycott, spu.-rcd hy Rosa Park~? 
n. 
The Mont~omcry H11s HoycoU 

b. 
The Tallahassee Bus Boycott 

c. 
The Oil lloycott 

d. 
The Hahm Rouge Hus IJoycott 


10. In 1949, Jackie Robinson was the first Black player t receivewhat prestigious baseball awanl'! 
a. 
The Most v~lluahlc Player Award 

b. 
A nominntion into the lfaschall Hall of Fame 

c. 
A 1·etircd number 

d. 
SJJOrtsmau of the year 




The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 7, 2001 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Belles aiID for upset against league-leading Flying Dutch 

By KATIE McVOY 
Assistant Sports Editor 

As women athletes are recog­nized nationwide, the Belles are looking to soar to victory over the No. 1 ranked Flying Dutch of Hope College tonight. 
Today, National Girls and Women in Sports Day, is set aside for recognizing high school and college women in athletics. During tonight's half time, stu­dent athletes at Saint Mary's will be recognized for their contribu­tions to athletics and scholar­ship. But, for the basketball team, tonight's focus is on Hope. 
The Belles, who have recently hit a nine-game losing skid, will have a challenge in the 18-2 Flying Dutch who are still uncle­feated in the MIAA. However, Last year marked the first time Saint Mary's is still hoping for in Hope history that the Flying victory. Dutch had consecutive 20-win 
"To me, you always have to go campaigns; they arc currently out for the win," head coach only two wins short of extending Suzanne Smith said. "We played that record to three years. With a good game the last time we 11 returning letter winners and 
played  them  two players that  
and we're excited to play them at home."  "We have to shut down their offense. They have a  have named Player  been MIAA of the  
The last time these two  great transition game. "  Week, Hope will make a strong  
schools met, Hope defeated Saint Mary's  Suzanne Smith head coach  bid for one of those two need­ed wins.  
7 5-51.  This  A concussion  

time Saint Mary's is aiming to during Saturday's game may play hard ball. bench Belles' post player Kristen 
"We are really working on Matha who recently returned to being aggressive," Smith said. the court after-suffering a hip "Hope really gets after you both flexor muscle injury. Smith will offensively and defensively." count on Kelly Roberts again to play in the starting post position along with Anne Blair and guards Julie Norman, Mary Campione, and Katie Christiansen. 
Matha will warm up with the team and, depending on her con­dition, she may play during the game. 
"We're counting on Kelly to start and if Kriston can come off the bench, that would be great," Smith said. 
With Blair leading the offense, Saint Mary's will be focusing on minit11izing turnovers. In Saturµay's loss to Calvin, the Belles turned the ball over 13 times in the first half alone. 
"We've been trying to push the ball, which is why we've had so many turnovers," Smith said. "Now we're trying to make bet­ter decisions and clean that up." 
The Saint Mary's defense will have its work cut out facing a strong Ilope offense. 
"We have to shut down their offense," Smith said. "They have a great transition game and very good post players." 
The defense will have to keep an eye on Hope's leading scor­ers. Junior forward Laura Poppema and sophomore post player Amanda Kerkstra aver­age 10 and 16 points a game respectively. Joining them arc senior forward Kristin Koenigsknccht, who averages eight points and eight rPbounds a game, and sophomore guard Amy Baltmanis, with eight points a game. 
Tip off time is at 7:30 tonight in Angela Athletic Facility. 
BASEBALL 

Two Irish named as pre-season best 
Special to the Observer 
The annual Collegiate Baseball magazine college previe~ edi­tion has tabbed Notre Dame senior shortstop Alec Porzel as the 2001 Big East Conference preseason player of the year while listing Irish senior righthander Aaron Heilman as the Big East's preseason co­pitcher of the year. 
Collegiate Baseball earlier ranked Notre Dame 14th in its preseason poll while naming Heilman a first-team preseason All-American and Irish sopho­more rightfielder Brian Stavisky a second-team All-American. 
CB's college preview edition includes six Notre Dame players among "Big East players to watch": Heilman, Porzel, Stavisky, junior centerfielder Steve Stanley, junior catcher Paul O'Toole and senior righthander Danny Tamayo. The magazine's listing of top profes­sional prospects in college base­ball for 2001 included Heilman (listed seventh), Stavisky (No. 18) and O'Toole (45th). 
CB also picked Notre Dame to win the 2001 Big East regular­season title, followed by new­comer Virginia Tech, Rutgers and Seton Hall. 
Porzel's preseason honor is all the more noteworthy consider­ing the fact that his teammates Stavisky was tabbed the Big East preseason player of the year by both Baseball America and the Big East coaches poll. 

Porzel heads into 2001 on the verge of becoming the first Notre Dame player ever to reach 30 home runs and 30 stolen bases in his career (29, 26) and he could challenge Notre Dame career records ih as many as six categories, including RBI, hits and doubles. 
Porzel's overall season totals in 2000 included team-best totals in RBI (58, third Big East), doubles (24, first BE) and slug­ging percentage, plus nine home runs and a .342 batting average. 
Heilman shared preseason billing from CB with Rutgers sophomore RHP Bobby Brownlie, who also was named the Big East preseason pitcher of the year by both BA and the Big East coaches poll. 
Irish prospects for 2001 sea­son boosted by the return of the three-time All-American Heilman, who elected to return for his senior season rather than signing the Minnesota Twins after being selected with the 31st overall pick in the Major League Draft. 
Heilman was named the Big East pitcher of the year in 2000, after posting a 10-2 record, 3.21 ERA, 118 strikeouts and just 29 walks in 103.2 innings pitched. The 6-5, 225-pound righthander's career numbers at Notre Dame include a 28-7 record, 14 saves, a 2.80 ERA and 314 strikeouts in 280 innings pitched. 
The tasty Rodeo Cheeseburger. for 99C. 
(Cowboy hat, boots _and lasso sold separately.) 
.. 

.• .:·.-::.f:,.:..(.-::\/:"::··/·::·:· :'· 

Got the urget 

The delicious, flame-broiled Rodeo Cheeseburger. 
Just ride in, saddle up lo the counter_ and try a tasty, flame-broiled burger topped with melted cheese, crispy onion rings and tangy BULL:S-EYE• BBQ sauce for only 99G';. Hey, at that price you can afford to feed your whole posse on 'em. 

Wednesday, February 7, 2001 · The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 
=-=-=========-=-=-~======-========-===~================~=========================.::::::..:::.=::::==.=======:=====~~ ....
• 

Suf:p:)rt existing-prcgrams 
Oil.tivate ererg:inJ id:Es 
Crca.ter&/initiatives... 

Furxliig Available 
Come to 1010 Flanner Hall on March 1 at 7:00 p.m. 

For more information please call 1-4447 or visit: http://ieiweb.flanner.nd.edu:8020/ 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 7, 2001 
National celebration calls attention to -woillen athletes 
Belles and Irish cele­brate National Girls and Women in Sports Day 
By KATIE McVOY Assistant Sports Editor 
Today isn't about being Division I or Division III or about being nationally ranked or unknown. Today women on the Saint Mary's campus and women on the Notre Dame campus have something very important in common. Today, all the women athletes of the nation are being recognized for their contribution to the world of sports. Today is National Girls and Women in Sports Day. 
Girls and Women in Sports Day exists to highlight the current and past careers of high school, college, and pro­fessional women athletes. Established by the Women's Sports Foundation, the day celebrates women in athletics and encourages gender equal­ity in sports. 
The national celebration began in 1987 in remem­brance of Olympic volleyball player Flo Hyman, whose career and work towards the equality of women in sports showed that women are major playes in the athletic world. 
In a world that has been dominated by men's sports. both in the media, and in financial circles, women's sports have been making more and more appearances in recent days. The Women's Sports Foundation came into existence to make sure those appearances keep happening, and chose Feb. 7 to highlight the place of women in sports. 
The celebration will be spot­lighted in Washington D.C. and high schools and univer­sities across the nation will join in presenting the accopm­lishments of their athletes. 
Tonight, both Saint Mary's women athletes and Notre Dame women athletes can come together in a mutual celebration of women in ath­letics. 
"This is a great way to call attention to all women in sports," Saint Mary's athletic director Lynn Kachmarik said. 
The Saint Mary's athletic department has prepared a special half time presentation during tonight's basketball game against Hope College. Vice President for Student Affairs, Linda Timm. will lead the ceremony that is aimed to reward athletes for academic and athletic success. 
The Belles volleyball team will be honored during the celebration, along with sever­al individual Saint Mary's ath­letes. 
The Saint Mary's spikers earned a team GPA of 3.69 during the first semester. This presentation will highlight the importance of academics and athletics. 
Joining the volleyball team during halftime will be any woman who made an all MIAA team. This includes women from several teams, including this fall's golf and volleyball teams. 
"This gives us a chance to recognize our athletes," Kachmarik said. 
This is the first time that Saint Mary's has planned events to help celebrate this day. As the athletic director at an all women's college, how­ever, Kachmarik believes that highlighting women atheltes is important. She hopes that this will be only the begin­ning. 
"This is the first time we've done this," Kachmarik said. "Each year we'd like to see this grow." 
The Notre Dame athletic department does not have plans for a special celebration or any presentations. However, the No. 1 ranked Lady Irish will take the court against Pitt at home. 
The hoopsters have epito­mized the importance of women in athletics as they took the No. 1 spot this year, boosting fan attenance and keeping the program in the national spotlight. 
Although the Irish are a nationally ranked, Division I program, and the Belles are a lesser known, Division Ill pro­gram, both teams are looking to showcase the aspirations of women athletes in America. 
By 7:30 tonight, 10 women will be on the court showing fans why women in athletics have recieved so much atten­tion in recent years. 
·i-


The Irish hoopsters (right) will join the_ Saint Mary's Belles in celebrating National Girls and Women in Sports Day. Members ofthe Belles soccer team (below), along with other Saint Mary's student athletes, will be honored during tonight's basketball game against Hope. 
Photos by: ERNESTO LACAYO DOROTHY CARDER 


tl1e Tradit:.ior1 

Wednesday, February 7, 2001 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
TYLER

FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 

._ 

EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 32 Side dish for a 58 Be CELEBRITIES BORN ON further. 000 THIS DAY: Keith Richards, VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22):
hot dog untrustworthy1 Dieter's lunch 

Steven Spielberg, Roger Smith, Expect opposition from your
33 2-Down 59 Thrill to death

6 Microwave ChristinaAguilera. Brad Pitt mate ifyou are getting too chum­
members

maker 60 Thomas of Happy Birthday: If you work my with co-workers. Find a solu­
11 Prefix with 36 Beach shades "That Girl" hard, you will have a fabulous tion that is suitable but not con­owned or 37 Word with tacks 61 Pay-_-view year. Your energy and drive to fining. Suggest that he or she go occupied or knuckles excel will give you the competi­out with friends, too. 000
82 Boot camp

38 One who's tive edge. The satisfaction you LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22):
14 Sidekick, south experience 
receive will lead to greater aware­Don't wear your heart on your
swooned over

of the border 63 Came up 
ness of what you can do when sleeve. Your r,,ersonal secrets will
39 _•cone

15 Cheapskate put under pressure. You will sur­be revealed if you are too open
40 Outer pie part 

16 Physicists get a DOWN prise yourself, which will help to with friends about your feelings. charge out of it 41 Lama raise your self-esteem. Your mun­Someone you work with may not
1 Tree juice 

42 Jolly Roger flier bers: 5, 16, 19, 27, 28, 33 be as good a friend as you think.
17 Bureaucrat, say 
2 Health grp. ARIES (March 21-April 19): 00
44 Busy person's 

19 Hallucinogen 3 Back talk Do things with family members SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):
reading

20 Sail holder who don't get out that often. Deception will put you in an
4 65, say, for

45 Soup cracker Property investments look awkward position. Try not to
21 "Dallas· retirement
47 Kicks out of the promising. Don't let outsiders get reveal your true feelings about a
matriarch 
5 Inactive

country involved in handling personal situation that is causing a lot of
Miss 
6 Make smile matters. 000 controversy. Don't take sides in a
48 Unrefined

23 Exit, as a 747 TAURUS (April 20-May 20): debate, or you may get blamed.
49 1988 World 7 Rain forest 

27 Fur trader You had better plan an active day. 000
Series M.V.P. feature 

Your mate will be erratic and SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 
29 U.F.O. crew Hershiser a_ Wednesday 
hard to deal with if you allow too 21): Your partner will be extreme­30 French 101, e.g. 50 At all 9 Born, in much idle time. Go out to a ly sensitive if you have been too 31 Laughing 51 Wet blanket Bordeaux movie or get involved in some busy. Stay away from risky form of competitive sports. investments. 'Iry to spend a quiet
10 Money owed 

0000 evening with your lover. 00
11 Physician,

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE GEMINI (May 21-June 20): CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 
disparagingly 

You can use your discipline to 19): Don't shirk family obliga­
Puzzle by Gr,tgory E. Paul
12 Daytime TV pick up new skills or complete tions. Your change of attitude host O'Donnell 27 Creamed 45 Resell for profit courses of interest. Making may be confusing your partner. chipped beef money will be your main goal. Let this person know that it does­
13 Rear-_ 46 Golfer Palmer,
base Look into small business op­n't mean that your feelings have
(certain infonnally 
accident) 28 Baseball tally portunities. Don't rely on others. changed. 000 47 Clothesline 0000 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):
18 Partner of pots 30 Discontinue 

alternative CANCER (June 21-July 22): It Focus on moneymaking opportu­
32 Savage

22 The Beatles' is best to face an emotional situa­nities. Form partnerships and
49 Sgt. Snorkel's
"Revolver,• 34 Outdoor dinner tion head-on. You may not like consider getting into business. Do 
dog

"Abbey Road," 35 Vent features what you find out, but in the long everything by the book. Problems etc. 37 Raisin run it will be to your benefit. Get with government agencies and in touch with old friends and pre­red tape are evident. 000
....+--+--."" 23 Pub pastime 38 "Othello" ensign Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
pare to start again. 000 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20):
24 Cuban boat boy 40 Refrigerator part are available by touch-tone phone: 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You You will be emotionally unstable 
Gonzalez 41 Graduation 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
will exhaust yourself if you've if your mate is treating you with ...,..=+.,..+..+...+...+-.-t 25 Tickler of the handout Annual subscriptions are available for the taken on too much. Ask for help disrespect. Make chariges or the ivories 43 The "I" in T.G.I.F. best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 or an extension on your dead­situation will get worse. Your lines. Personal matters may crop next step will be to trade your
..;.;.i.;;;.1,,;;;.;.;;.i.1&1 26 Periscope piece 44 Like Crater Lake years: 1·888-7-ACROSS. 
up and delay matters even partner In for a better model. 00 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 




Fox TROT 
CLO! 
CUCk! CLICIC!
GO! 
CUC1C!

READY? READY. CLICIC! Cl.lCIC! tLlO:! CUCIC! CLICIC! 
\

\ I 
CUCIC'! 

BILL AMEND 
SOMETIMES I SEE You TOl'IY RoBB•NS 
WOOHOO!A 
THll'6: PLAYIN(;, AFT£R STOP! INFOMERCIAL! 1 REAL RUS'SIAN IT'S OVER,J ROULETTE PAL.
I i WOULD '­
\ -BE SAFER. 
I 
r= 

Post Traumatic Test Syndrome 



Women on Top
., 
Belles and Irish unite with fans around the nation to celebrate women in athletics.
PORTS 
page 22 
O
THE 

page 24 BSERVER Wednesday, February 7, 200 I 

~-. J Recruiting the 

CLASS OF 2005 
Irish recruiters have high hopes for defensive end 
By TIM CASEY 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Will Irish fans remember Shaun Cody as another Carlyle Holiday or as C.J. Leak revisit­ed? 
For the third straight year, Notre Dame enters signing day awaiting a decision from one of-its top recruiting tar­gets. In 1999, quarterback Leak shocked the Irish. He 
__..._ WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
committed to Wake Forest on 
signing day, just weeks after 
Bob Davie and his assistants assured the N o r t h Carolina native that they would not sign another signal caller. Last 


season. following weeks of predictions and scrutiny, Holiday chose Notre Dame over Nebraska on signing day. 
Today, Cody, one of the nation's top defensive recruits, is expected to announce his intentions. He has apparently narrowed his choices to UCLA, USC, Washington, Miami and Notre Dame. 
As a defensive end Cody recorded 33 sacks during his 
Irish hoopsters look to dominate 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Assistant Sports Editor 
Preparing for tonight's game against Pittsburgh, the No. 1 Notre Dame women's basketball team brought in a new opponent Tuesday -football guard Jim Jones. 
Jones took on All-American center Ruth Riley in a game of H-0-R-S-E on Tuesday before practice. Riley won the showdown. 
"She got me by two letters," Jones said. 

Tonight, the Irish move their focus from a big offensive guard to a talented young forward. The Panthers (9-12, 3-7 in the Big East) boast one of the Big East's top power forwards in sophomore Mandy Wittenmyer. 
Wittenmyer leads Pittsburgh in scoring and rebounding, averaging 13.8 points per contest to go along with nine boards. When these two teams last met Feb 2, 2000, Wittenmyer had 15 points, seven rebounds and six steals. 
"She's their best player," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said of the sophomore. "She had a really good game against us here last year. She's tough to guard because she goes to the basket well and shoots the free throw jumper." 
Wittenmyer has impressed Pittsburgh coach Traci Waites with her maturity this season. 
"She is banged up -a sore ankle and a sore knee. She's doing everything for us in terms of rebounding," Waites said Tuesday in a telecon­ference. "She's taken on a leadership role, she's obviously scoring. It's just nice to have a sophomore that's willing to carry that weight for us." 
Wittenmyer isn't the only banged up Panther. Guard Monique Toney, who averages 10_.8 points and nearly four assists per game, is out with a variety of hand injuries. 
"She got kicked in the Seton Hall game and fractured one of the bones in her shooting hand," Waites said. "Her left hand was frac­

see HOOPS/page 18 ..._ 
junior season at Hacienda 
Heights  High  School  in  
California.  
He  added  22  sacks  as  a  

senior and was recently named USA TODA Y's defen­sive player of the year. 
Defensive coordinator Greg Mattison, Notre Dame's "best recruiter," according to ESPN.com recruiting analyst Tom Lemming, has been assigned to pursue Cody. 
"[Notre Dame] needs Shaun Cody," said Max Emfinger. a recruiting analyst for USAT0­DAY.com and Rivals.com. "He's everything that's been written about him. In the All­Star games, he was dominant. He beat up everybody, all the offensive lineman in the coun­try. You just can't block him. He's everywhere." 
Before hailing Cody as the next Bruce Smith, understand 
see CODY/page 18 
power forward 

Track and Field 
vs. Bowling Green 
v.s Pitcsburgh 

at Cannon IV 
Friday, 7:05 p.m.
'

Tonight, 7 p.m. Indianapolis ~
SPORTS • at West VirginiaFriday, 5:30 p.m.ATA Sunday, 2 p.m. vs. Hope vs. Virginia Tech vs. Dukewe• • Tonight, 7:30 p.m. Friday, 4 p.m. Saturday, noon
GLANCE ~ ti 





