
Mariah Carey glitters
SUNNY 
Tuesday 
Scone questions whether Glitter, Carey's newest album will be worth the
HIGH 75° 
OCTOBER 2,
gold. 
LOW 54° 
Scene . page 11 
2001 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 26 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 





BOG creates plan to reduce mass e-mails 

By SHANNON NELLIGAN 
News Writer 
Board of Governance brain­stormed and proposed meth­ods to end abuse of the e-mail system Monday night without restricting students' First Amendment rights. 
Continued abuse of the Saint Mary's e-mail system dominat­ed the BOG meeting Monday. Elizabeth Cusick, technology commissioner, submitted a recommendation to restructure the network. 
The plan is constructed in a way that will promote the reduction of unwanted e-mails. Students will only receive class e-mails from the College presi­dent, vice president of Student Affairs, information technolo­gy, class boards and the Board. 
Cusick clarified that, "if someone believes the whole student body needs to know about an upcoming event [by mass e-mail] ... major boards should have the right to review and send out the e-mail." 
"This will also increase com­munication within student gov­ernment which will increase co-sponsorship," said student body vice president Kristen Matha. 
The Board also addressed the need for students to obtain information from various clubs and academic associations. The idea of creating list serves was presented: These would permit students to subscribe for information from the pro­grams they are interested in and filter the circulation of unwanted e-mails. 
"This plan of action will be a more organized outlet for the information to be sent," Cusick said. 
Michelle Nagle, student body president, ensured this is not restricting freedom of speech. Every student will have a way to get every single e-mail sent. 
The first list serves will be sponsored by the athletics department and art depart­ment and will include current events affecting the college and educational resources. 
The issue of mass e-mails sent by students was also con­sidered. The focus was on the student body's rights regarding 
see BOG/page 4 

Kramer's off-campus housing empire expands 
Office of Residence Life. see a profit.
. But landlord For more than 200 Notre Dame Although he says he still is and Saint Mary's students. Mark may purchase Kramer, owner of Domus a house for annot profiting Properties, is the man they call average of 
when a sink clogs or a stove $30,000, he ------------breaks. 
said he usually

By MAUREEN SMITHE Kramer. in partnership with spends another 
Associate News Editor his brother Tom, first rented to $30,000 to 
students in 1988. At the time, it $45,000 bring­
When Carolyn D'Amore moved was a one-house operation on ing it up to stu­off-campus this year, she was North St. Peter Street. dent stan­pleasantly surprised. "The first house was a night­dards. 
"I like knowing that I have a mare. The previous owner never "From an kitchen and that I can make my cleaned it up between years. equity stand­own dinner," she said. "My When I bought it, I found that the point, the friends and l spend so much current student renters were future will be more time together." very unhappy with it," he said. very prof­
Modeling the positive experi­
D'Amore's response is typical itable," 
ence his own daughter had with
of most students seeking the Kramer said. 
her college renting experience,
greater freedoms -and responsi­As student 
Kramer set out to take houses,
bilities -of off-campus living. interest in his 
rehab them, support the opera­
With a parietal-free lifestyle and houses per­
tion with a full-time maintenance 
no quiet hours, a considerable sists, Kramer 
staff, and offer them to students
percentage of students consider said his com­
at prices comparable to apart­
housing outside the golden bub­pany continues 
ment living.

ble an attractive option. to buy houses. 
"We try toAdministrators count on stu­

A lucrative business 
buy multiple

dents to seek this lifestyle as multiple student houses within a blames on a late start to the
Kramer rents 34 houses to 200 homes in an area to create a
well. block or two's vicinity. school year and the recent
students. making his off-campus clustering effect. Students like to
"We do need students to live off However, Kramer's business attacks in New York City and
housing operation the largest in be near other students, and its
campus because we traditionally for next year is already below his Washington, D.C.
South Bend. Charging $300 per better for a neighborhood
have an [on-campus] occupancy expectations. By October, he usu­'Tm not worried because I've
person each month, his rates are because students tend to party
rate of 96 to 102 percent which ally has at least 70 percent of his never had a vacancy," Kramer
competitive with nearby apart­and make noise. We try to be 
means that we really cannot pro­houses rented for the next school said, adding that he expects all
ment complexes. courteous to everyone," he said. 
vide housing for everyone and Despite reported growth, Areas· such a·s Washington year. So far this year, only 51 houses to be rented by January. we sometimes maintain a waiting percent of his houses arc leased
Kramer insists that he has yet to Street and St. Peter's Street have 
list," said Scott Kachmarik of the for next year, a problem he see HOMES/page 6 


page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Tuesday, October 2, 2001 
INSIDE COLUMN QUOTES OF THE WEEK 
Runners travel 

for tnarathon 
There are some crazy people running around this campus. I'm not joking-they are crazy, and they really are running. A lot. My room­mate from last year belongs to this group of peo­
ple.  
Jenn started training  
for the LaSalle Bank  Colleen Barrett  
Chicago Marathon this  
swnmer, and since the beginning ofher regi­ment, she has run more than 396 miles. I know of  Advertising Account Executive  
four specific instances in  

which she has persevered for 20 miles. In a row. 
I am truly amazed at the dedication it takes to prepare for an event as grueling as a marathon, and even more impressed that so many Oomers have been juggling running, academics and extra curricular activities in an effort to prime their bodies for Chicago's 26.2 mile course. At least 42 students from Noire Dame will head west this weekend, and many ofthem will be wearing Notre Dame track singlets procured from the Issue Office in an effort to show Irish spirit dur­ing the race. Kudos to you, Jenn, for coming up with and following through on such a great idea. 
Chicago boasts that its marathon is the fastest in the world: Khalid Khannouchi set a World Record time of 2:05:42 in 1999. I thought I might have a chance at beating that until I real­ized it was two hours, not two days. But this Sunday, 37,500 people are going to begin run­ning at 7:30 a.m.; some in an effort to beat this record, some to meet their own personal goals, and others just to cross the finish line before the race coordinators begin to disassemble it. 
Cheering the runners on will be 900,000 spec­tators, many of whom come to enjoy the various events stationed around the course. Bands, sponsoring organizations, and a multitude of groups offer fun, entertainment or distraction for crowds during a race that for some runners ¼ill last almost six hours. 
Many participants wondered if the marathon would remain scheduled for Oct. 7 in light of our recent national tragedy, but event chairman Mark Nystuen said, "The triumph of our nation over this adversity will be, I believe, beautifully reflected in the spirit and resolve of our many runners on Race Day." In addition to fostering national spirit, LaSalle Bank is working to help The American Red Cross National Disaster Relief Fund by accepting donations throughout Race Day and at the pre-race Health Expo on Saturday. 
So, what's my purpose in writing an entire col­umn about a very, very, insanely long race? It's an attempt to convince as many people as possi­ble to take a trip to Chicago this weekend to cheer on classmates, friends and strangers in their pursuit of dreams, goals and records. I know without a doubt that I could not run 26.2 miles, but if I were going to try, it would make a world of difference to know that people had trav­eled to support me. It is quite a different caliber than the high school cross country meets in which you cheer on the runners at the beginning of the race, watch them disappear, wait for the next three miles, and then cheer them on when they reappear to finish the course. 
Contact Colleen Barrett at Barrett.42@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of th.e author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards itselfas a professional publicarion and strives for the highest standards of journalism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognii;e that we wili make mistakes. Ifwe have made a misrake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error~ 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday c.xcep< during exam and vacation period.. The Observer is a member of i.he Associated Press. All reproduction rights ate reserved. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports


BEYOND CAMPUS 

Syracuse closes Zimbabwe program 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. ital. But those students had to pur­
Fanon Che Wilkins recalls his 
sue other study abroad alternatives yearlong stay in Zimbabwe as hav­to Zimbabwe after the university ing left an indelible impact on him. closed the program for the academ­
Wilkins remembered white-water ic year because of political instabil­rafting down the Zambezi River, ity in the country. trips to Victoria Falls and taking The current majority party, the part in the intellectual culture of Zimbabwe African National Union the nation. He spoke fondly of the (ZANU PF), led by President Robert African families that hosted the stu­Mugabe, was losing popularity dents, and of the trips that they because of a stagnant economy. took to visit local schools to speak Last February, Mugabe held a ref­about America. erendum in the country to give 
"I remember how surreal it was himself more power, said Jim when I got there," said Wilkins, a so funny. All I could think was. Bushman, direcfor of DIPA's professor of African American stud­'Wow, l'm in Africa."' Zimbabwe program. ies and history at Syracuse Fourteen students were supposed The referendum failed and, University. "I was picked up at the to travel to Zimbabwe this fall and "From that moment on, (Mugabe) airport by some students and a sec­study at SU's Division of began using means outside the retary we had there. and when they International Programs Abroad legal system to maintain his saw me they gave me a soda. It was center in Harare, the country's cap-power," Bushman explained. 
"There was a point in the ball game that I told the offensive coordinators not to throw the ball_ " 
R.C. Slocum Texas A&M head coach 
on not running the score up in Saturday's game 

"The people I really feel bad for are the Notre Dame fans. It's got to be frustrating watching this." 
Bob Davie Irish head coach on a 0-3 
record 
"It's the only event where they provide you with the equiptment and time to stab people with swords." 

Andrew Nerlinger "Jeopardy" contestant on joining the fencing team 
"It was disappointing. We had the home course advantage, we knew the course. " 
Theresa Pekarek SMC head golf coach on third place finish 


HARVARD UNIVERSITY 

Student assulted in hate crime act 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 
A Muslim Harvard University graduate student was verbally and physically harassed at the Harvard Square T-stop Friday afternoon in what police are calling a hate crime. The incident is the first felony-level hate crime at Harvard in the wake of the Sept.-11 attacks and comes on the heels of the recent stabbing of a Saudi Arabian man who was reported to be a student at Boston University. On her way to weekly congregational prayers, the Harvard graduate student left the Harvard Square MBTA station and was entering the "Pit" area when four white males approached her, according to the 
· police log. She was wearing a hijab. a traditional Muslim headscarf. The males reportedly said, "What are you doing here? Go home to your own country," and tried to take off her hijab. "She was shocked and scared," said Melinda Mott, a friend of the victim. Mott said her friend continued on to Friday prayer and that the pair then contacted the Harvard University Police Department (HUPD). 


SOUTHERN ILLINOIS UNIVERSITY 
Police to exhume serial killer's body 
CARBONDALE, Ill. 

Carbondale Police Department will file a petition this week to exhume the body of infamous serial killer John Paul Phillips with the hopes of connecting him to sever­al unsolved murders dating back more than 25 years. Jackson County State's Attorney Mike Wepsiec said the petition could be filed as early as Monday in Williamson County -the final resting place of the man police believe raped and murdered five women, includ­ing 3 Southern Illinois University students between 1974 and 1981. The petition will contain evidence establishing probable cause that Phillips was linked to murders other than the one he was convicted of com­mitting. Carbondale Police Sgt. Paul Echols said med­ical examiners will extract Phillips' leg bone, obtain his DNA profile and send the sample to the state crime lab in Springfield for a comparison with DNA evidence gathered from the 1981 murder of Susan Schumake. Police have obtained a DNA profile of Schumake's killer. 

LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

AccuWeather"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures The AccuWeather® forecast for noon.Tuesday, Oct. 2. 
<J 
FRONTS; 
...-.,-..._._ ........... 
GOLD WARM STATIONARY
0 2001 AccuWealher Inc. 
Prcnure: 

® © D C3 cm D CJl . -": 
High low Shower• A11ln T-•torma Flurrle• Snow Ice Sunny Pl Cloudy Cloudy 
Vis Associa/ed Press 

Atlanta 81 52 Las Vegas 93 70 Portland 77 50 Baltimore 79 50 Memphis 84 55 Sacramento 93 57 Boston 70 50 Milwaukee 75 55 St. Louis 82 55 Chicago 75 52 New York 73 55 Tampa 82 57 Houston 86 55 Philadelphia 77 54 Washington DC 79 52 


Tuesdav, October 2, 2001 The Observer . NEWS page 3 


CLC defines task force goals 
ByJASON Mc:FARLEY 
News Editor 
An efficient Campus Life Council defined objectives for its task forces at a 20-minutc meet­ing Monday. 
Members set goals for each of the council's three task forces. At its Sept. 17 meeting. the CLC voted to create task forces on off-campus living, alcohol use and abuse and campus social space. 
The off-campus living task force will explore concnns about transportation, security and communication that off­campus students typically face, task force chairman Tim Jarotkicwicz said Monday. 
"We'd basically like to come up with ways to improve the lives of off-campus students," he said. "We'd also want to deter­mine why students move off campus." 
Student government officials and the Office of Residence Life are already compiling data about what leads students to move off campus, and the task force will take advantage of some of that information, Jarotkiewicz said. 
The report that student gov­ernment representatives will give to the University's Board of Trustees deals with the trend of increased numbers of students choosing off-campus housing. 
The CLC's alcohol task force will try to identify stricter ways for administrators to crack down on underage drinking, Blake Haan, the task force's chairman, said Monday. 
One possibility is to have alco­hol-related incidents reflected on student transcripts, Haan said. 
"We are also exploring how we can change the culture of how people think about alcohol so· that the culture is not all about getting drunk," said Becca Davidson, task force member and Breen-Phillips rectress. 
The social space task force abandoned plans to research available social space in resi­dence halls and opted to look at 

Broadway Theatre league Presents The New Musical.•• 


non-dorm social space, accord­ing to chair Bob LeBlanc. 
The task force will study the feasibility of holding more events for underage students at the Alumni-Senior Club, making bet­ter use of current space in cam­pus buildings and establishing a 24-hour restaurant on North Quad, LeBlanc said. 
Father Paul Doyle, Dillon Hall rector, recommended an alter­native means for extra social space. 
"Maybe we can look into hav­ing more dances aQ.d other events in big tents outside," said Doyle, who told the council that Dillon's dance under a tent was successful Friday. "I think tents are a good venue 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley. l@nd.edu. 


Agreement falls short 
of Ashcroft's plan 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Senior members of the House Judiciary Committee reached bipartisan agreement Monday on anti-terrorism lcg­i.slation that strengthens the hand of investigators but falls short of recommendations made by Attorney General John Ashcroft in the wake of the Sept. 11 attacks. 
The compromise would make it easier for investiga­tors to gain court permission for electronic surveillance of suspected terrorists under the Federal Intelligence Security Act. Another provision would extend the amount of time the government may detain an alien suspected of terrorism without filing charges, from the current two days to seven. 
But the standard that would be set for these electronic sur­veillances would still be more stringent than the Justice Department sought. And Ashcroft had proposed there be no limitation on the length of detention in cases involving aliens suspected of terrorism. 
In another setback for the administration, many of the key provisions of the bill would expire in little more than two years, on Dec. 31, 2003. Officials who described the proposed legislation did so on condition of anonymity. 
They said the plan had the backing of Rep. James Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., and John Conyers, D-Mich., the chairman and senior Democratic member of the Judiciary Committee. The committee is expected to debate the measure as early as Wednesdav. 

Ashcroft p;oposed new ter­rorism laws in the wake of the Sept. 11 attacks at the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, and prodded Congress over the weekend to act speedily. But some of his initial proposals sparked opposition from liberals and conservatives alike who said they would infringe on civil liberties. · 
The Justice Department responded warily to the pro­posals. "We are in the process of reviewing the legislation that Chairman Sensenbrenner has agreed to and will assess how it compares to the admin­istration's proposal," said Susan Dryden, a spokes­woman for Ac;hcroft. 
The legislation would make it easier for law enforcement authorities to obtain so-called "pen register" and "trap and tracc"ordors that permit them to learn the incoming or out­going phone numbers from a particular telephone. Rather than seek permission for such orders in multiple jurisdictions around the country, officials would be required to obtain permission only once. The current law, according to a summary of the legislation, "can cause serious delays that could be devastating to an investigation where additional criminal or terrorist acts are planned." 
The law also extends the amount of time for which a court order may be used to conduct physical searches and electronic surveillance under the FISA. 
Student Government invites you to attend 
Stepping Stones: A Path to Understanding 


When: -Wednesday, October 3 
6:30-8:00 PM 

Where: Walsh Basement Food from Popeyes and Hacienda will be served 
page 4 The Observer . NEWS Tuesday, October 2, 2001 
PRIDE WEEK KICKS OFF WITH "FISH SHOTS" 




Logan airport ousts its head of security 

Associated Press 
BOSTON 
The head of security at the city's Logan Airport is being ousted, three weeks after terror­ists crashed two planes hijacked from the airport into the World Trade Center, an ofiicial in the governor's office said Monday. 
Joseph Lawless had handled security for then-Gov. William Weld when he was appointed in 1993 as the head of public safety at the Massachusetts Port Authority. which runs Logan, the Port of Boston and several regional airports. 
"He will be removed very soon," said the source, who spoke on condition of anonymi­ty. 
Gov. Jane Swift was scheduled to make a speech Tuesday night to discuss her plans for tighten-
BOG 
continued from page 1 

online ticket sales and the post­ing of lost and found informa­tion. A new computer program may be implemented to solve this problem. 
"The new [blackboard] pro­gram will allow students to 'log in' as in course info. And they ing security at the Massachusetts Port Authority and throughout the state. 
A call left for Lawless' spokesman after business hours Monday was not immediately returned. Lawless has an unHst­ed home phone number and could not be located for com­ment. 
It was unclear whether Lawless would be reassigned to another position after his removal from the $130,000-a­year security post. 
Swift on Monday called securi­ty lapses at the airport "unac­ceptable." About 150 National Guard members will be assigned to Logan and the state's other airports starting Friday. 
"I believe Logan is safe, although I think we need to con­tinue to address unacceptable SP.curity breaches there," she said. 
will be able to post or open information," said Cusick. 
Cusick also suggested that, "Until the possible setup of a 'Blackboard Program' [hoped to be setup by January]. there will be bulletin boards set up in Haggar for items that are per­sonal in nature." \ 
Contact Shannon Nelligan at nell2040@saintmarys.edu. 

This Week in 




Campus Ministrv 
11'--da_v_______ 
Campus Bible Study 
7:00 p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center Conference Room 

Confirmation Session #2 
7:00 p.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 




ltftnesdav 
Coffee at the Co-Mo 

8:00 p.m. lounge, Coleman-Morse Center 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
10:00 p.m. Morrissey Manor Chapel 

dav 
RCIA Study Session 
6:30 p.m. 
330 Coleman-Morse Center 


lldav 

807 Mass 
8:00 p.m. lounge, Coleman-Morse Center 

.L--da_v______ 
RCIA Inquiry Session 
10:00 a.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 

The Way Catholic Bible Study 
8:30 p.m. 331 Coleman-Morse Center 


Freshman Retreat #37 
(November 9-1 0, 2001 ) Monday, October 1through Monday, November 5 114 Coleman-Morse Center 

Onme Way 
with 'fathe-Y' J. 
ha~ moved away.... to the Viewpoin« Page every other Tue~day. 
(starting today) 
Cofi~ee@ the Co Mo Coffie&Donuts Study Break 8"m
I ' -flt the Coleman-Morse Every weanesaay ,-, 





ATION 

Tuesday, October 2, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD News BRIEFS 
Canada eases sanctions on Pakistan: Canada announced Monday it was rewarding Pakistan's support for the U.S.­led coalition against terrorism by easing sanc­tions and converting debt owed by lslamabad into spending for social programs. Foreign Affairs Minister John Manley said sanctions imposed against Pakistan to protest its testing of nuclear weapons were lifted, except for a ban on military exports to Islamabad. 
Jews begin weeklong festival: Israeli Jews on Monday sought to set aside the tur­moil of the past year and celebrate the festive holiday of Sukkot that commemorates the deserl wanderings of their ancestors and the fall harvest. The weeklong festival. which starts on the first full moon of the Jewish year, also marks the harvest of summer fruits and crops and the beginning of the winter rains. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

Molecule may kill cancer tumors: 
Scientists have developed a molecule that appears to make cancer its own worst enemy. In laboratory tests on mice, the molecule ­called icon -killed tumors by destroying the blood vessels that feed them. It also caused the cancers to produce copies of icon, which spread through the body and attacked other cancers. 
Bush reopens Reagan Nat'l Airport: 
President Bush will authorize reopening Reagan National Airport outside Washington with new security measures, allowing a limited number of flights at the only commercial air­port left dark since the Sept. 11 hijackings, administration officials said Monday. Bush signed off on a new security package at a White House meeting Monday and will announce his plans as early as Tuesday, said several officials involved in the discussions. 


INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
New plate to benefit breast cancer awareness: Sales from a new specialty license plate announced Monday will promote awareness of breast cancer and help some people pay for treatment. The new plates will be available in January for $37 annually. The Indiana Breast Cancer Awareness Trust will get $25 from each sale and will use the money for education efforts, screenings, diag­nosis and treatment. The other $12 goes to the Bureau of Motor Vehicles. 
Market Watch September 28 

Dow 8,836.83 -10.73 

Composite

]~ Sarne: Volume: 
NIA
~ 167 

AMEX: 809.40 t0.63 NASDAQ: 1,480,,ffi -18.34 NYSE: 542.05 -1.79 S&P 500: 1,038.55 -2.39 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

OMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRIC 
ISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -2 . 30 -0. 28 11. ASOAQ 100 (QQQ) -0.86 -0.25 28.7 NTEL CORP (INTC) -2.10 -0.43 20.0 UN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) -1.69 -0.14 8.1 ICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) +l. 21 -tf.l. 52 51. 7 
CHINA 


Associated Press 
BEIJING 
China celebrated National Day on Monday, the anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic, with pledges by the country's leaders to join the international com­munity's fight against ter­rorism. 
China's flag of gold stars on a red field was raised at dawn ceremonies across the country, from Tibet's capital Lhasa in the tower­ing Himalayas to the com­mercial powerhouse of Hong Kong. Hundreds of open-air dance and song shows were staged to mark the day, and public parks in the capital put on street fairs. 
Chinese President Jiang Zemin led top leaders in an appearance late Sunday night atop Tiananmen gate in Beijing, the ancient entrance to the former home of Chinese emperors where M.ao Tse-tung declared the founding of the People's Republic on Oct. 1, 1949 after winning a civil war. 
Monday was also the beginning of the weeklong holiday dubbed "Golden Week," a key time for Chinese to travel and shop. This year, the holiday also coincided with the Mid-Autumn Festival, a tradi­tional time for gathering with friends and family to eat pastries and view the full moon. The date of the festival is calculated according to the lunar cal­endar and changes yearly. 

With the terror attacks against the United States still fresh, Chinese leaders also used the occasion to reiterate-promises to join international efforts to fight global terror. 
Calling terrorism a "seri­ous global scourge," Premier Zhu Rongji said at a reception Sunday that the government will make "staunch and unremitting efforts" together with other countries to ensure peace. 
State television reported President Jiang Zemin made a similar pledge in a phone conversation with Gen. Pervez Musharraf. the president of traditional ally Pakistan. But Jiang stressed any action against those behind the terror attacks must be based on sufficient evidence, have a specific target and adhere to principles outlined by the United Nations. 
Since the attacks, Beijing has repeatedly stressed it wants any military action in Afghanistan to first be approved by as many countries as possible. 

Navy dispatches fourth U.S. carrier 
aboard. speaking on condition of anonymity, 
Associated Pre&s 

Two defense officials, speaking on said the Kitty Hawk left Yokosuka WASHINGTON condition of anonymity, said the Kitty Naval Base outside of Tokyo with a President Bush's war on terrorism Hawk was headed from its homeport in "representative mix" of strike and sup­gained a fourth aircraft carrier Monday Japan toward the Arabian Sea to be port planes on board. including combat -but the USS Kitty Hawk isn't bring­available for use by U.S. special opera­aircraft like the F-18 Hornet and F-14 ing along its full fleet of planes. tions forces or by Navy aircraft other Tomcat. He would not say how many 
The Kitty Hawk will serve as a float­than its own. planes were on board but made clear it ing base for other forces, defense offi­Lt. Cmdr. Jeff Gordon, a spokesman was much fewer than normal. 
cials said. at Pacific Fleet headquarters in Hawaii, A carrier's fighter and surveillance In keeping with the administration's said the Kitty Hawk left a portion of its aircraft are used not only for combat policy of not discussing details of mili­75-plane air wing behind at Atsugi Air but also to protect the carrier against 
tary activities related to the anti-terror Base in Japan when it departed hostile aircraft. campaign, the Navy would not com­Monday. The Kitty Hawk is the only one of the ment except to say the Kitty Hawk does Gordon said he could not provide Navy's 12 carriers to be stationed per­
not have its usual number of aircraft other details. One defense official, manently abroad. 
page6 The ObJerver . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, October 2, 2001 
Hollles 
continued from page 1 
Combating off-campus crime 
When Tiffney Colon found the smashed passenger side window of her car (which was parked in her house's driveway) two weeks ago, she instinctively knew what to do. 
"I called the police right way and they were really helpful," Colon said. "But I know this probably wouldn't have hap• pened ifI still lived on campus." 
The police officer told Colon that break-ins are common place for many off-campus stu­dents, a fact Kramer himself cannot dispute. 
"We've had some break-ins, but nobody has ever been harmed," Kramer said. "They usually occur over the summer when the houses aren't 100 per­cent occupied." 
Kramer estimates that nine out of 10 break-ins are a result of the students not being aware of what they need to do to pro­tect themselves. As a result, he hosts an annual neighborhood safety and crime prevention meeting for both students and South Bend residents. This year's meeting is scheduled for today at 5:30 p.m. on the 800 block of East Washington Street. 
In addition to having a respon­sive police department, Kramer said he takes several precautions to prevent crime, including installing alarm systems and motion lighting around a house's perimeter and locks on all the doors and windows. 
"Students may not be familiar with some of the things they can do to prevent Grime," such as keeping blinds closed and watching what is put in the trash, Kramer said. "Student safety is our No. 1 priority." 
Getting up to par 
Kramer said renting to stu­dents is not always smooth sail­ing. His houses are often older, requiring extensive maintenance and repair. 
Sally Bannon, Kramer's execu­tive assistant, handles daily phone calls from renters dealing with a wide array of problems. Whether it is a leaky faucet or a mouse in the house, Bannon is responsible for dispatching Domus Property's maintenance staff. 
'Tm here to take care of stu­dents. [t's my job," she said. 
Kramer also owns Termiguard, a local extermina­tion company. He treats houses monthly for any pests that may wander in. 
"We don't have many com­plaints about bugs or mice," Bannon said. "Our biggest com­plaint is plumbing issues, but we can take care of that right away." 
The end of the year can be a difficult time for Kramer. Although Kramer meets with his renters six weeks before move­out to discuss his expectations for the condition of the house, only 50 percent of the students get their full security deposit back, 30 percent get partial refunds and 20 percent owe him money for damages and exten­sive repairs. 


He said that at least four hous­es a year are beyond handy-man repair. with damages such as holes in the walls, kicked in stoves, smashed toilets, ruined hardwood floors and broken windows. 
"We don't want the deposits because by taking the deposits our workload is horrendous," Kramer said. 

$1QInitial Deposit 
Offer ends 10/19/2001
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 
. :Prices Include: · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·. Motorcoach from your Puerto Vallarta from $939: college to the airport 
(based on Triple Occupancy) · (Groups of 6 or more) March 3-10 or 10-17 :. Non-stop service out of Cancun from $999 : Chicago (based on Quad Occupancy) -. 7 nights at a great hotel March 2-9 or 9-16 :. Airport/Hotel transfers 
. ., ,_
bdgertons 
~~;:.~~ A'IC. 
· -f · Y' 1-800-643-4604 www.edgertonstravel.com 

One house he distinctly recalls was so bad that he estimated nearly $10,000 in damages. When the parents of the five renters heard this, all 10 of them came down to help clean up to defray the costs. 
"One of the parents said, Tm ashamed to admit that this is going to be a future alum of Notre Dame. I think I've wasted $150,000 in' an education,"' Kramer said. 

Regardless of possible end of the year woes, off-campu~ living provides students with an option, and Kramer said he is happy to oblige. 
"Our motto is to give studenL'i more than what they expect,'' he said. 
Contact Maureen Smithe at smithe, l@nd.edu. 
HoLv(Ross=/f;tsocIArEs Interested in learning more about post-grad service with HCA? The following meetings are availablefor you to ask questions and to talk with\ former and current Associates. •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• ..•• Information Meetings • • •• •• •Tonight at 4 p.m. CSC, Focus on the• •• •Chile Prog,:am • ••• Tonight at 6:30 p.m. Off-Campus at the• •• •• Robinson CLC (921 N. Eddy) •••• • • • • • • •• • • •• • • • •• •• •• • •• • • • • • • • • •=Service, Community, Spirituality, = Simple Lifestyle  
Serving in Arizona, California, Colorado, Indiana, Massachusetts, Oregon, Pennsylvania, and Chile  
nd.hcassoc. l@nd.edu 631.5521 http://www.nd.edu/---hcassoc/  


I I I I  There is no need to be alone.... IF YOU -are feeling same sex attraction -have questions about your sexual orientation don't know who to talk to just want someone to listen ' -desire a warm accepting confidential atmosphere for gay, lesbian, bisexual issues <; ather ..£. isten 71 ecome 'ff~ For information or just to talk, Contact; Fr. J. Steele, CSC 1-8144 Jsteelel@nd.edu C-M Campus Ministry  

Tuesday, October 2, 2001 The Observe; . NEWS page 7 
Court justices suspend Clinton 
The court did not explain its skin color as the sole reason to 

Associated Press 
action, but Supreme Court dis­round them up for questioning in barment often follows disbar­a burglary case. 
WASHINGTON ment in lower courts. The court . Rejected an appeal from con­The Supreme Court opened its acted after it was notified by the victed Oklahoma City bombingnew term Monday with a rebuke 

Arkansas Supreme Court that conspirator Terry Nichols,

of former President Clinton, sus­Clinton's Arkansas law license whosought a new trial based onpending him from practicing law was suspended for five years and the FBI's failure to give his
before the · 
he paid a $25,000 fine. lawyers thousands of documents 

justices. 
On a somber note in the court­from the bombing investigation. 

Clinton was room Monday, Chief Justice . Declined to review a lower 
among 18 
William H. Rehnquist began the court's decision that rumors

lawyers 
2001-2002 term by asking fellow spread to hurt a company are not

nationwide 
justices and others in the packed entitled to free-speech protection. 

who got the room to remember the hijacking The case grew from Procter & same disci­victims and their families, includ­Gamble's allegation that rivalpline. 
ing chief Bush administration Amway and Amway distributors

The jus­
appellate lawyer Theodore Olson, spread a baseless story that P&G

tices gave 
whose wife was killed in the was linked to devil worship. 

Clinton 40 days to say why he 
plane that hit the Pentagon. 

should not be permanently dis­Olson removed his glasses and The justices had indicated ear­
barred from practicing law 
wiped his eyes several times as lier that they would hear impor­before them. A Clinton lawyer Rehnquist spoke. tant cases this year on schoolsaid the former president would vouchers, affirmative action, the argue that high court disbarment In cases Monday, the court: death penalty and child pornog­would be inappropriate. 

. Turned down an appeal that raphy.

Clinton was admitted to the 
would have allowed the justices In the Clinton case. the court Supreme Court bar in 1977 but to address the volatile issue of followed its standard rules,has never argued a case there. racial profiling. The case involved which include suspending him Most lawyers admitted there hundreds of young black men in from practice in the court and 
never do, but the right to do so is the upstate New York city of giving him a chance to say whyconsidered an honor. Oneonta who contend police used he should not be disbarred. 


Anti-Taliban alliance calls for leadership 
Associated Press 
ROME 
The anti-Taliban alliance in northern Afghanistan and the former Afghan king agreed Monday to conven.e an emergency council of tribal and mili­tary leaders as a first step toward forming a new sys­tem of government in their country. The Taliban's leader predicted the effort would fail. 
The council, or loya jirga, they envision would consist of 120 people cho­sen from the opposition northern alliance as well as different provinces and ethnic groups, said Abdul Sattar Sirat, a senior adviser to former King Mohammad Zahir Shah. 
The announcement, which came after three days of talks in Rome 
BAIN" & COlv1PA:NY springboard to 
Bain & Company cordially invites all 
opportunity 
upperclassmen to join us for our Fall 
Presentation followed by a Case 
Interview Workshop tonight. 
6pm Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn 
Please apply onfine at 
www.bain.com 
Atlanta • Beijing • Boston • Brussels • Chicago • Dallas • Hong Kong • Johannesburg • London • Los Angeles • Madrid • Mexico City Milan • Munich • New York • Paris • Rome • San Francisco • Sao Paulo • Seoul • Singapore • Stockholm• Sydney • Tokyo • Toronto • Zurich 


between Zahir Shah and a half-dozen northern alliance representatives, was seen as a possible opening for an alternative Afghan government if the ruling Taliban militia is toppled as a result of U.S. strikes to retaliate for the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. 
Opponents of the Taliban have called for convening such a council, considered by Afghans to be one of the few broadly accepted means of finding a representative govern­ment. 
Monday's announcement left the door open for the Taliban to take part in the council. which would be held in Afghanistan soon. 
But the Taliban's leader 

wasted  no  time  in  
denouncing the move.  
In  a  broadcast  on  

Taliban-run Kabul radio and monitored in the 
Pakistani capital. Mullah Mohammed Omar said the efforts to bring the ex-king into an alliance with oppo-· sition forces was destined to fail. 
"They want to impose the Zahir Shah regime on us," Omar said, referring to the Americans. 
"God willing, I'm sure America cannot do that." 
A representative of the northern alliance in Tajikistan, which borders Afghanistan. praised the agreement. 
"The temporary differ­ences between the north­ern alliance and Mohammad Zahir Shah ... have been settled," said Muhamad Salekh Registani. the military attache of the opposition alliance's embassy in the Tajik capital. Dushanbe. 
The Joya jirga had been a centuries-old institution in Afghanistan. However, tra­ditionally only the king could call such a council meeting. The former king was overthrown in 1973 by a cousin with the help of the communists. 
Many influential Afghans who are not associated with the northern alliance would like to see a council convened. The ex-king's role would be limited to convening the council. 
However, joining with the northern alliance could tarnish his image as a uni­fying figure above politics. Many figures in the alliance were discredited in Afghanistan because of the chaos that swept the country when they ruled following the collapse of the leftist government in 1992. 
Councils convened dur­ing Marxist rule were not widely accepted as valid by Afghans, and the Taliban have rejected any Joya jirga called by anyone, including the king. who lives in a luxurious gated community north of Rome. 

. I 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

IEWPOINT 

page 8 Tuesday, October 2, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. TN 465% 024 South Dining I !all. Nmre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
N?rcen Gillespie.  Bob Woods  
A.ssT. MANAGJt-;G EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Par Peters  

Nr.'Vi'S EDITOR: Ja.son McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadter SC£NE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MARl:"s EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EOITOR: Peter Richar&on 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD 0.ESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINI~•rRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB Al>MINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CoNTROll.ER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKcnna 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGERIGENIRAL (NF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING........................ :...........631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHlEF........................................ 631-4542 MANAGING EmrnR/AssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE...... : ................................. 631-5313 NEWS.......................................................... 631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu YIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 _observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu 
SPORTS ........................................................ 631-4543 
observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu SCEN"E.. ..................................................., ...631-4'.>40 observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MAfty's ............................................. 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO ........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ................. 631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Yi.sit our Web site at http:llobseroer. nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news. sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons. reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-co-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly studenr reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates of prim ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search· for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
to meet che edi cors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent. daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Edirorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as acnuarely and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lem:rs is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include conracr information. 
Que;tiom regarding Obmvcr policies ,ho11Id be direct­ed to Editor 111 ChiefMilee Connofiy. 

Bush's decision devalues life 
Should taxpayers pay for research on embryonic stem cells? The answer offered, wit[! evident sincerity, by President Bush is neither moral nor capable of practical limitation. 
In its earliest days, the embryo is a living human composed of stem cells, each of \1vhich can develop into all or many of the more than 200 tis­sues in the human body. If stem cells are removed to a dish thev can replenish them­selves in "lines," perhaps indefi­nitely. Stem cells can also be obtained from adults, in bone marrow and other sources. Scientists hope that research on stem cells, whether from embryos or adults, can lead to relief for some dis­eases, including Parkinson's, Alzheimer's and others. 
No moral problems arise in the use of stem cells derived from adults. But to obtain stem cells from a human embryo requires the removal of the inner cell mass which terminates the life of that embryo. 
President Bush said: "We do not end some lives for the medical benefit of oth­ers ....[T]hat life, including early life, is biologically human, genetically distinct and valuable. [We can] promote stem cell research without ... ethical abuses. First, we can encourage research on stem cells removed from sources other than embryos .... Second, we can encourage • research on embryonic stem cell lines that already exist .... Therefore ... [f1ederal funding for research on existing stem cell lines will move forward; federal funding that sanctions or encourages the destruction of additional embryos will not. VVhile it is unethical to end life in medical rosea.rch, it is ethical to benefit from research where life and death deci­sions have already been made." 

Bush approved funding on cell lines "derived (l) with the informed consent of donors, (2) from excess embryos created solely for reproductive purposes and (3) without any financial inducement to the donors." Bis policy differs from National Institutes of Health guidelines, issued in 2000, only in that he would not fund research on lines created after his Aug. 9 announcement. 
One question is whether the parents of an embryo have standing to consent tu the killing of their child so that his body can be used for research. And proper consent obviouslv is absent where embryos are cre~ted fur the purpose of killing them to obtain their stem cells. 
Apart from consent, the decision to fund research on existing cell lines is not intrinsically wrong. With proper consent, one can morally use the body of a mur­der victim for research. But the Bush pol­icy is immoral for circumstantial reasons. 
The policy "encourages" scientists to kill more embryos by extracting their stem cells in the hope of persuading the government to fund research on them. And it "encourages" the creation of embryos for the specific purpose of killing them and seeking federal funding for such research. Pressure for funding of new cell lines will be irresistible because the Bush policy already con­cedes the legitimacy of funding research on stem cells after embryos have been killed. 
The Bush policy involves the govern­ment in scandalous complicity in murder. both as to existing cell lines and especial­ly as to any lines created in the future. 

Hemember: Each of us is a funner embryo. Each and every killing of a human embryo by removal of the stem cells is, in moral terms. a homicide. It is no defense that the victims were going tu die anyway. Aren't we all? Nor is it a defense that the research will benefit older human beings, as when the Nazis and Japanese, in World War IL used prisoners in lethal experiments. And if we can kill innocP.nt human beings to use their bodies to save lives. what conclu­sive objection can there be to killing them to make lampshades? 
Under "Roe v. Wade," the unborn child is a nonperson until birth and therefore destruction of the embryo is a constitu­tional right. President Bush missed an opportunity to challenge that nonperson­hood of the youngest human beings. His focus only on funding implicitly concedes the legitimacy, under Roe, of' the research itself, of homicide as a scientific technique. This carrit~s us further down the path charted by of the contraceptive ethic in which man makes himself (or herse!O the arbiter of whether and when life shall begin (arid, implicitly, end). 
The Bush policy, as the Pennsylvania Catholic Conference put it, puts America "on a dangerous path in which govern­ment endorses the death of one for the potential cure of another. [Instead]. sci­entific advancements that cooperate with God's plan for life and love are the surest means of alleviating suffering and build­ing up the dignity of man and the sanctity of life." 
Professor Emeritus Rice is on the Law School faculty. His column appears every other Tuesday. He can be reached at Plawecki. l@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Student leaders show courage at race retreat 
A strong commendation is in place for Notre Dame's stu­dent leadership. As the focus participants of this week­end's Learning to Talk About Race Retreat, a phenomenal but relatively new event, these prominent club and com­mittee heads from the Office of the President to FASO proved their strengths as leaders and showed their courage as people. While the LTR Retreat's principle mis­sion is to initiate positive and productive dialogue in race­related topics, I have ·all the confidence that this week­end's conversation will continue on as these leader-partic­ipants take home lessons learned and begin to plant of seeds of change. 
From addressing ignorant and hurtful statements on the Notre Dame campus to discussing race relations and demographics overall, the hours that these student lead­ers spent together sent an inspiring ripple of hope for the entire Notre Dame community. These student leaders, commissioned with the duty of embracing diversity educa­tion in their prospective organizations, will undoubtedly take their experience and lead the burgeoning movement at Notre Dame to increase sensitivity and awareness of diversity issues. 

I admire their courage, their commitment and their vision, and I anxiously wait to see these seeds of compas­sion and open-mindedness blossom into a better humani­ty. 
Ken Seifert diversity educator junior Stanford Hall 0cc. I, 2001 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Helena Payne Chris Scott Courtney Boyle Sam Dcrhcimcr Elizabeth Lee Graphics 
Sports Andy DeVoto Brian Kronk Production Viewpoint Noah Amstadter Kristin Ycmm Lab Tech Amanda Greco 
POLL QUESTION 
11% 
. Should civil liberties Yes be limited in light of the terrorist attack? 

*this poll appears courtesy of collegeclub.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"After all there is but one race-humanity." 
George Moore writer 
~HE 
VIEWPROINT 

Tuesday, October 2, 2001 page 9 
After Sept. 11: Don't go nuts 


Now, let's not go nuts. Did a famous person once say. "don't go nuts," in a movie or an interview? I do not know, but probably, and I am saying it so you can quote me. What I mean to say, though, is to Anna Barbour remain who you have always been, remain who you are in the Get a Life wake of Sept. 11 's barbarous terror­ist attacks. 
As a nation, we have not yet nuked Afghanistan, and I take that as a sign that the United States' head officials are attempting to find a rational and just solution to the attacks. But are individual Americans also as circum­spect in how each deals with the aftermath of the attacks? And are some of our future foreign policies 
changing to represent a disre­gard for liberty and human rights? 
What I have in mind is people forgetting or throwing away their civil rights in order to feel more secure in the wake of Sept. 11. I am talking about blacklisting talk show hosts who have unpatriot­ic opinions. I am talking about detaining people in jail for an unspeci­fled amount of time without the proper evi­dence. I am talking about killing American citizens who wear turbans. I am talk­ing about airline pilots carrying guns on 11ights. I am talk­ing about Muslim women afraid to go gro­cery shopping alone. I am talking about Republicans and Democrats agreeing on everything. 
Is any of this normal? No. Do we want terrorists to affect our lives in anyway? No. So I am saying, let's not go nuts. I am saying do not let them change you. 
There is a difference between tak­ing a nip now and again from the bourbon bottle and drinking glasses of whiskey all alone in your room every night. There is a difference between exercising on a regular basis and having muscles so big, you cannot reach around your muscles to scratch your own back. There is a difference between taking precau­tionary measures, rooting out the problem, working to overcome the tragedy, or becoming a totalitarian state, putting people on McCarthy-like trials, monitoring every single move every single person makes. 
So. again, I am saying, let's not go nuts. People say they feel insecure now. Well. I agree. Yet. have we not been insecure for years and life went on? People say they want to be more prepared for disasters like this in the future. Even with as much security in all areas of life as possible, would we ever be fully prepared to repel every type of harmful attack? Even the Bush Administration's missile defense shield cannot defeat all threats. What about biological weapons of mass destruction that can be smuggled into water sources and the like? We have many prob­lems about which we can feel inse­cure. Global warming and energy-fuel shortage problems are just two problems we could dwell upon. 
Great Britain, however, in an attempt to feel more secure, wants everyone to carry an identification card for anti-terrorist precautions. The police will have the right to stop anybody any time and have him or her produce the ID card. Terrorists, though, have shown that they are willing to live in-country for years before they perpetrate their crimes and will probably be able to gain an 
ID card. The only people who may 
~-­
be caught by the ID cards are not terrorists but illegal immigrants and refugees that are 11eeing war-torn countries. New Yorkers, in addition, are carry­ing survival kits when they go out. These kits con­
tain gels that once spread upon the skin 
may slow down the effects of biological weapon attacks. I sup­pose it is useful to have the harmful effects 
of bio-weaponry slowed down. But, I ask you, 
are ID cards and 
gas m_asks what you want to carry around with you in 
the United States of America? I do not want to begin blaming every dis­aster upon terrorism. In Toulouse, France on Sept. 
24, a chemical plant exploded, and some blamed terrorists while investigators blamed carelessness. 
Neither do I want to forget that there are other problems in the world along with terrorists. Will the United States engage in international policies and treaties that compro­mise American concern for human rights? What precedent will be set if gaining aid in defeating terrorism from China or Russia means tacit 
U.S. consent for human rights abuses .in Chechnya or in Tibet? 
Do not forget what happened on Sept. 11. We should not stop fighting for a just conclusion to the attacks. We will always remember, in our prayers and actions, the victims and their loved ones harmed by the attacks. But should we change our entire way of life in fear of terror­ists? 
Anna Barbour is finally a senior pre-medical and theology student. She can be reached at barbour.3@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in the column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those ofThe Observer. 

Holy water blesses; pornography harms 
Editor's note: "On the Way" is the Campus Ministry's question and answer column that will appear every other Tuesday. Please direct questions concerning the prac­tices and principles ofCatholicism to Father J. Steele at ministry. l@nd.edu. 
Why do Catholics bless themselves with holy water? 
Holy water fonts, those little dipping bowls near the entrance of a Church, have a long and splendid history. They date back to the earliest churches in the Roman period after Constantine when one passed through an open court with a fountain at the center to enter a church. 
While the liturgy was going on, two groups of people would Father J. remain in the court, the penitents and the catechumens. Steele 
The penitents, a term sometimes still used for people waiting to go to confession, were those who because of serious sin had to remain outside the church for periods of up to several years. On the Way 
The catechumens, another term still in use, were those preparing for baptism. The fonts, used for baptism, were often octagonal and frequently had three steps down into the water. The octagonal shape referred to a common design for Roman mausoleums and the three steps suggested Jesus' three days in the tomb before the resurrection. Baptism, then as now, is a commitment to die to sin so that we may rise to new life in Christ. 
While the court of the penitents has disappeared as a feature of church architec­ture, vestiges of it still remained through the centuries. One of them is the holy water font. Since the Second Vatican Council ·the Church has re-emphasized the value and meaning_ofbaptism. Thus. in recent years, there has been an architectural develop­ment which harkens back to the baptismal courts of earlier times. Large baptismal founts haye been bui_lt near the entrances of churches helping us to recall the origi­nal meanmg of blessmg ourselves upon entering a Church. The Basilica's newly ren­ovated and relocated baptismal font with its octagonal form and impressive size is an excellent example of this development. 
S~. ~hen we bless ourselves upon entering a Church we join the generations of Chnstians who regularly recalled and recommitted themselves to their Baptism, an ongoing death to sin so as to live in the light of the Gospel. 
Nobody gets hurt, so what's wrong with pornography? 
Since the rise of the Internet in the last few years, the question of pornography has become almost commonplace. As a confessor on a college campus and from plenty of conversations I can say with some certainty that most young men have had some exposure to pornography and an apparently growing number have become compul­sive in their resort to pornography and sexual fantasy. Seemingly, no one gets hurt. So what difference does it make? 
Pl_enty. For the guy who is beginning to rely on pornography and fantasy to allay amnety, stress, loneliness, boredom, etc, the escape is minimal and temporary. Worse, he now returns to his previous emotions with the added burden of shame. This may set him up for another episode. With succeeding episodes there is a dawn­ing awareness that one is losing control. Certainly, not everyone who looks at porn will become compulsive about it, but all current studies show that sexual addictions are sharply increasing. Even if one does not become addicted, the same dynamic of shame-and-return often apply. 
And there are spiritual reasons pornography should be avoided. The Church's long and consistent teaching on sexuality tells us that the expression of intimate love (as well as the possibility of procreation) is an essential element of sexual expression. Pornographic images do not depict a loving encounter but something impersonal and base. These images can "teach" the viewer wrong ideas about sexuality which may be carried over into a marriage relationship. I would not want a sister or daughter of mine to marry a man whose ideas of sexuality were formed by years of viewing pornography. 
The question of pornography always returns us to the design of God in making us sexual beings. God is not ashamed of sex. God made our sexuality. along with all cre­ation, and has pronounced it good. According to John Paul II, when sex is the expression of complete self-surrender to the other, when it says I am yours and you are mine, completely and without reservation within the context of marriage, it is an experience that is holy. Sex should be sacred. And that is the best reason to avoid pornography. 
"On the Way" is the Campus Ministry's question and answer column that appears every other Tuesday. Father J. Steele is rector ofMorrissey Manor and also works in Campus Ministry. Please direct questions to ministry.1@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

... 
Tuesday, October 2, 2001 
page 10 


ALBUM REVIEW 
Sebastopal demonstrates Farrar's solo talent 
By BRIAN KORNMANN 
Scene Music Critic 
i' • 
' Considered one of the leaders of the alternative­country music movement, Jay Farrar turned some heads when he announced last year he was taking a break from his band, Son Volt, to produce a solo album. There was talk that Farrar was going to repeat the same behavior that led to the breakup of his former band, Uncle Tupelo. 
Uncle Tupelo rose from relative obscurity in St. Louis to become the nation's premier band in the alternative-country genre, mixing traditional aspects of country music and adding elements of punk, rock and the blues. 
Founded in 1989, Uncle Tupelo released four albums (No Depression, Still Feel Gone, March 16­20, and Anodyne) before breaking up in 1994, after Farrar and fellow Uncle Tupelo member Jeff Tweedy decided to focus on their respective side projects. Tweedy went on to Lind success as the lead singer of 


Photo counesy of www.anem1srecords.com As a forerunner of the alternative-country genre with both Uncle Tupelo and Son Volt, Jay Farrar flexes his solo muscle in Sebastopal. 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Wilco, but steadily shifted from a country sound to a darker pop sound. 
Farrar, meanwhile, went on to record with Son Volt and release what Rolling Stone and Spin maga­zine calfed one of the greatest albums of the lust 30 years in Truce (which can also be found in the world-famous Club 23 jukebox). Written while driving from New Orleans to Minnesota, the album is a series of emotions and sounds that reflected Farrar's great ability to write music. After two other Son Volt releases (Straightaways and Wide Swing Tremolo) Farrar and Son Volt took a year off before Farrar made the decision to release a solo project for his next album. 
It was worth the wait. On Farrar's debut album. Sebastopal, he shows the great range of music and power­ful lyrics that have become his trademark. Consisting of 17 songs. the "solo" effort actually consists of Farrar playing guitar, piano, key­boards, and the tambura, with 10 other musicians filling in on drums. bass, etc. on the album. 
The album's strength comes from what many fans have come to expect from a Farrar-led band: powerful 

Bad Ronald releases unbelievably bad album 
The band's press release describes Bad Ronald as con­sisting of "3 MCs, a DJ and enough free-stylin', beats and phat hooks to start any party." Playing this band at a party will only clear everyone out of the room with everyone think­ing that you have the absolute worst taste in music possible. 
Although these jokers want to be the next Limp Bizkit, the actual music behind the mad-· ness is honestly closer to Hanson's "MMMBopp." Only artists like Sugar Ray. Smash Mouth and Michael Bolton 


By GEOFF RAHIE Scene Music Criric 
On their debut album, Bad Ronald makes a case for the most annoying group of human beings put together in one room. Using samples, bor­ing hip-hop beats, remedial guitar licks and very preten­tious rap vocals, the band takes the waste of the MTV Generation to a whole new level. Fred Durst looks like a genius compared to Bad Ronald. 
and moving vocals. mean­ingf'u I lyrics and a range of musical styles that comple­ment each other well. From the opening song, the powerful and moving "Feel Free." to the closing track. the piano led, hal­Io wed vocal "Vitamins," Farrar estab­1 i s h e s Stebastopal as a must have album for fans of Uncle­Tupelo, Old 97's, Wilco . Son Volt or t h e Bottlerockets. Fans of these bands should 
Sebastopal 


Jay Farrar 
Artemis Records 
Rating 

....... 
find the album to be a particularly enjoyable release. 
However, the album sho·uld be an enjoyable listen to anyone who is anchored by terrific songs such as Voodoo Candle, Feed Kill Chain. Dtain and Damn Shame. The entire album flows well, and is a great listen from start to end. The replay value on the album is high as well, as no songs stick out as being annoying or out of place on the album. 
Overall, Farrar makes good on his solo debut. pro­ducing a well-rounded meaningful album, that music fans should !ind highly enjoyable. 
Contact Brian Kornmann at kornmann.l@nd.edu 
could appreciate these guitar licks. The music on this album is down­right laughable. 
It's clear from the start what Bad Ronald is all about: mass quanti­ties of marijuana and women. "We're gonna light the weed/ Tap the keg/ Now let's begin/ We gonna kick right back/ We're gonna sit right down/ Enjoy it girl/ You're gonna love this sound." 
The songs are all about the band's daily life. which consists of doing a lot of drugs and meeting a lot of women. "Had Idea" is about a man's love for a college girl. while "Lost On Tour" is about the band taking a wrong turn with their tour bus. It's hard to imagine women actually becoming groupies of this ensemble. 
Of course, the cheese comes beat the crap out of these out with such award winning guys.titles as "I Need Love" and Bad Ronald is just bad. They"My Sense." The worst offense 
are a terrible band. They are is the miserable version of annoying. They write idiotic 


More concerned with pot and girls than the sound they produced, Bad Ronald might want to think about dropping the 'Ronald' from their name. 
John Lennon's "Imagine." Yoko Ono should personally 

lyrics. Every song starts the same. Every song is the same. They lack originality. Bad Ronald is simply bad. 
Contact Geoff Rahie at rahie, l@nd.edu. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

CENE.
music 

Tuesday, October 2, 2001 page 11 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Carey continues hip-pop trend in Glitter 
feature current hip hop and rap stars like but moves very slowly,

By LAURA ROMPF 
Ludacris, Da Brat, Nate Dog, Ja Rule, lacking novel melodies Scene Music Critic 
Mystical, Busta Rhymes, Fabulous and DJ or lyrics. Carey's voice Clue. is the song's only sav­Reviewing a Mariah Carey album is a Quite a laundry list of names for any­ing grace: "I'd given up lot like Forrest Gump's life theory about a one who watches BET. The first single off hope/Losing the faith box of chocolate: "You never know what the album "Loverboy" has a remix fea­that love/ Could be you're gonna get." Some songs arc terri­turingt Da Brat, Ludacris, Twenty II and mine to treasure/ And ble, while others -the obvious singles Shawnna. Co-written by Carey. the single now/ Nothing's the ensuring album sales -are fun, catchy, had a slow start on the pop charts over same." A little cliche pop classics. the summer, but after its cost was for a veteran of the 
Carey's latest album, Glitter, is also the decreased, the song began heavy rotation music business. soundi.rack to her acting debut in the on the airwaves and started climbing the "Last Night a DJ motion picture with the same title. No charts. While there are no distinct lyrics Saved My Life," is one has or ever will doubt Carey's talent fans can sing along to, the up-tempo beat about as cheesy as its as a vocalist. With an 8-octave range, itself is quite catchy and Carey's distinc­title portrays. While Carey can hit notes that would drive a tive voice handles the melody with case. the beat is catchy, can deaf dog crazy. "If We," the third track on the album, one really sing "Last 
However on Glitter, Carey follows her gives the same sort of feeling but is dis­night a DJ saved my recent trend of moving towards hip-hop tinct from "Lovcrboy." Featuring Ja. Rule life" and expect to be songs, such as Heartbreaker or Fantasy, and Nate Dog, the song starts off with a taken seriously? and away from traditional pop songs, like clever hook that sounds like· it is being "Don't Stop" a fast Emotions or Hero. These songs, which do played by the chimes on a music box. The moving hip hop song not showcase her vocal skills as clearly, song is strong, hut seems to feature featuring Mystical and 
Carey, "Reflections," a ballad rather have written by Carey, are her_ as the on the verge of hits, main artist. but have no special 

The sec­qualities setting them­ond single selves apart from other off the pop songs -be it the a I bum. lyrics, the production "Lead the or the music itself. Long-time Carey fans will not be disap-. Way," is a This leaves the listener wondering if pointed with the album -they're used to more tradi­Carey had more time to Work on Glitter if skipping over some tracks to get to the tional ballad she would have polished existing songs or truly good songs. However, Glitter is not showing eliminated the useless tracks. But as an album a listener should by if they are Carey's Carels recent emotional and physical looking for 12 solid tracks. musical tal­breakdown brought on by exhaustion ent. The illustrates, time maybe the very thing 
Contact Laura Rompf at rompf.2@nd.edu 
song is OK, Carey's life is lacking. 



ALBUM REVIEW 
Lesbian duo leaves little to the imagination 
challenges associated with living as a lesbian in a het­Animal do all

By MAUREEN SMITHE 
Eternally Hard
erosexual world. Although this is a reasonable theme the thinking,

Scene Music Critic 
considering their sexual orientation, it seems as though leaving nothing Bitch and Animal have absolutely nothing else to com­for the listener 

Lesbian performance artists on a prestigious record plain about. to do but cri­label are few and far between. With that said, it should The first track, "Best Cock on the Block," sets the tique. be expected that those who do make it to Ani DiFranco's theme for the album. As individuals in a male-dominat­The bright Righteous Babe label actually be good. Eternally Hard, ed, heterosexual world, Bitch and Animal prove their spots on this the latest release from Bitch and Animal, fails to deliver. stamina. "See I'm a lady lover/ I'm a lady leaver/ Just album are 
The pair. who met in Chicago after a play rehearsal, one taste/ And you'll be a believer." The two are proud clearly reminis­refuse to disclose the origin of their striking moniker, of their shared identity, but they are so consumed with cent of insisting that "if their birth names are revealed, the uni­their own sexuality that it consumes nearly every track Di.Franco's verse will screech to a halt." The duo's original stage on the album. immediate name mirrors their doubly original musical material. In "Boy Girl Wonder," the two assume that heterosex­influence. In 
In almost every song, the duo contemplates the social uals feel trapped within the confines of perceived social fact, the vocals expectatiOJ!S. "In the parking lot/ Where we on "Traffic" are kissed good night/ And you squeezed my hand/ performed by A little extra tight/ Well I knew right then/ · both Ani and That you felt the same/ If you'd just get out/ Of Animal. With that boy and girl game." lines like "All 
Bitch and Animal's defense of the female we have are mystique is worthy of praise, and they do a our love and good job of tackling issues surrounding sexual our guts baby," repression. The song "Sparkly Queen Areola" it is an insight­uses imagery that wouldn't be found any­ful and hum­where else but here. "May the nipple always bling offering serve you/ May you suck on her to wisdom/ It's that appeals to the sparkle in the Queen Areola." die-hard Ani 

One divergence from the constant lesbian fans. imagery is found in the albums 10th track, Performance "Ganja." An anthem to their favorite drug, the art and music song mocks established religion with its play can be tricky to master. An arguably talented duo, Bitch on the Christmastime favorite, "Angels We and Animal need to give up some of the drama in Have Heard on High." Although their criticism exchange for a clearer portrayal of who they really are. may be justified. the blatant nature of the Too much on this album was manufactured to fit per­lyrics leaves nothing to the imagination. ceived notions of what performance art should be. "Angel smoked me out last night' After getting 
Etemally Hard, the debut album from Bitch and Animal, is little Jesus high/ He says ganja makes you strong/ I Contact Maureen Smithe at smithe.l@nd.edu. say great/ Pass me the bong." Bitch and
more than perfonnance art taken way too far. 



'> 

I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I J 
page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, October 2, 2001 
MEN'S INTERHALL BLUE LEAGUE 

Fisher tops O'Neill in defensive struggle 
men in quarterback Jimmy Ben Gilfillan to struggle hitting the second half. field to Sorin's one-yard line.
By KEVIN BOYLE, MATT 

Costanzo and receiver Tom his receivers, completing only six Plagued by untimely penalties, Despite the long drive, they were
MOONEY and DAVE COOK 

Gorman. Costanzo moved the of his 18 passes. the team punted twice and was never able to put the ball into 
Sports Writer< 

ball effectively through the air Siegfried wasted no time in picked off once to essentially seal the end zone. and on the ground, rushing getting on the board. On their their fate. When Plumby chalked Sorin took over the ball, and 
The Wave defeated the Angry seven times, while Gorman came first possession of the game, the up his third touchdown pass, this on one play Sorin quarterback Mob 8-0 in a game dominated by up with several big receptions. Ramblers staged a 12-play, 65-time to wide receiver Mike Wahl, Greg Carney connected with defense Sunday at Riehle Fields. For O'Neill, both quarterbacks yard march down the field. It the game was all but over. receiver Tom Doar for a 99-yard Fisher's offense moved the ball Troy Montgomery and Nate ended when Plumby connected "They [the penalties! were a touchdown. well at times but O'Neill refused Schomas ran the offense effec­with 6-foot-5 receiver Bill Bingle big factor. A lot of them were At the end of the first half. to break throughout most of the tively but could not get the ball on a 27-yard touchdown strike. unwarranted in my eyes," said Zahm had controlled the ball for game. into the end zone. Defensively, After managing only six points Schmutzler. 'Tm not blaming 17 of the first 20 minutes of play. 
With only a few minutes left in Josh Rich and Brian Berg came in their opener, the Ramblers our loss on penalties, but it made They had eight first downs to the game, Fisher star tailback up with big sacks that helped felt they had something to prove things a lot more difficult." Sorin's one. and held Sorin to Kameron Chappel finally broke stop Fisher drives. on offense. For Knott, this loss puts a only five plays the entire half. that defense and ran the ball in "We wanted to come out crimp on their hopes of return­three of which came in the very from five yards out. Siegfried 21, Knott 7 strong and let them know we ing to the stadium. They still last minute . 
The two-point conversion was Last week Siegfried captain . were legit," Smith said. "In the have a shot at the playoffs by Yet Zahm found themselves converted and Fisher finished Travis Smith said two or three first week, it's tough to gauge winning their last two games but trailing 7 -6 going Into the second scoring the only points of the quality Rambler drives would be [how good an offense isl. they will need some help. half. game. enough to defeat Knott. The Ramblers continued to Schmutzler also knows the road "We came out a little slow," 
Fisher had nine first dovvns in On Sunday, his teammates move the ball on their next pos­doesn't get much easier. said Zahm quarterback Dan 
< the game to O'Neill's four, with proved hin1 right. session. A Knott punt out of its "There's still a slight chance Burke. "[Sorin'sl defense was two of those coming from penal­The Rambler offense had a big own end zone gave Siegfried we can get into the playofls if we tough." ties. day as Siegfried went on to win favorable field position at the win our last two. We by far have In the second half. it was The Angry Mob, however, the Battle of Mod Quad, 21-7. Jugg 40-yard line. It took the toughest schedule in our Zahm's defense that led their played it close until the very end. Quarterback Rob Plumby led the Siegfried six plays to punch it in division. We've got quality pro­team to victory. After halfback Phil Irvine threw way, completing 7 of 13 passes once again. extending their lead grams all throughout our sched­Zahm's only points of the sec­a pass for 25 yards and backup with three touchdowns and one to 14-0. Plumby went to the air ule." ond half came on an interception quarterback Nate Schomas interception. again, hooking up with Aguiar in the third quarter that was threw another pass for 20 yards, He credited much of his effi­on a 10-yard touchdown pass. Zahm 14, Sorin 13 returned for a touchdown. O'Neill looked to even the score. ciency to Ste.ve Myrter, Eddy Knott, however, responded on Victory did not come easily for Fo1lowing a two-point conver­Then Fisher freshman Lee Vulin, Viace Sicialano, Kevin its very next series. The Jugg Zahm in their 14-13 win against sion, Zahm went up 14-7, a Gettler was called for pass inter­Phipps and Matt Fallon. offense put together a 65-yard Sorin Hall Sunday afternoon. deficit Sorin would never equal. ference and O'Neill had the ball "[Our offensive] line played drive, culminating in a 10-yard Zahm had to overcome the loss The Otters were led by junior at the 10-yard line. The Wave one helluva game. I got hit once touchdown toss. Gilfillan con­of its two star running backs due standout Greg Carney. Carney defense stepped up as it had all day and they certainly nected with receiver Brian to injuries, and the stalwart played quarterback, wide receiv­done all game, with another sack deserve a lot of credit," Plumby Pawloski, cutting the deficit to defense of Sorin. er and safety throughout the and then an interception as time said. 14-7. "Sorin is a tough team," said game, and was responsible for ran out. Senior Rambler running back The Juggs looked far from Zahm head coach Jerry both touchdowns for Sorin. "That showed what our team Travis Smith paved the way on dead after cornerback Brian Fitzpatrick. "We lost our entire "It's hard not to be out there," was made of, we had our backs the ground, compiling 15 carries Schmutzler picked off a Plumby backfield and had to come up said Carney. "The whole offense against the wall," Fisher captain while also converting on two pass on Siegfried's very next with an offense." is in my head." Ray Aftandilians said. "We dis­fourth downs. Senior Peter play. However. Knott could not Running backs Gabe Ibanez Despite being sidelined several agreed with that call but we put Aguiar led the Siegfried receiv­capitalize as the half ended and Lawrence Santiago were times because of tough tackles, that behind us and stuck it out." ing corps with five receptions before they could score. both forced to leave early due to Carney played most of the game, O'Neill is a team that has han­and one touchdown. "Momentum is huge in any serious bruising that hindered and was the driving force of the dled setbacks before. "We seemed to do everything football game," said Schmutzler. their running. Otter football team. "We were happy with the right today," Plumby said. "We finally stopped them Ibanez and Santiago had six "He's like our coach," said effort, but we're obviously disap­"Everything seemed to click." [Siegfried} and a score would carries and nine carries, respec­Sorin defensive end Mike pointed ... We are really pumped Siegfried's defense clicked as have tied the game up. We got tively, before being carried off Edwards. "He took a few big up for next week, we want to get well. By forcing Knott into multi­the ball back [at the start of the the field. hits, yet came back in the game." back on track," Captain John ple third and long situations, the second half] with what could've The first quarter characterized 
Contact Kevin Boyle at 
Enterline said. Rambler defense could play back been a chance to take the lead." Zahm's struggle. 
kboyle@nd.edu, Matt Mooney at
Offensively Fisher was led by and anticipate the pass. Unfortunately for Knott, the Zahm began the game with the 
mmooney@nd.edu and Dave
Chappel, as well as two fresh-This caused Jugg quarterback team could muster little else in ball, marching 64 yards down-
Cook at dcook2@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
LOST AND FOUND 
LOST bookbag in South Dining Hall Tuesday. Ifs blue and white Jansport with Leprechaun patch. Please return to Laura Lacayo 4­4273 
FOUND:Small gold pendant with Virgin Mary. Found in parking lot behind Lyons.Kstekbe@nd.edu 
FOR RENT 
5 rooms for rent on football week­ends Many happy repeat cus­tomers. 2 miles N. of campus. 
277-8340 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM­
PUS mmmrentals. com 
email: mmmrentals@aol.com 
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available tor football/parent wknds. 5 rooms with private baths, $80-$115, Midctlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll fioad Exit #107. l-800-418­
9437 
HOUSE FOR RENT: 1 )9-br $2400/month. 2) 5-br $1500/month. 3) 4-br $1000/month. 
Call Bill at 532-1896. 
Turtle Creek Apt. Opening 
1 Br $655 276-4809 
For rent: remodeled 4-bdrm house. 3 blks. from ND. Garage avail. 
233-2104 
ROOM FOR RENT ND GAMES $250 WEEKEND. CONT. BRKFST. 
CALL 272-0877 
B&B 2-3 ROOMS HOME GAMES 2 Ml NO OF CAMPUS 
247-1124 
For Rent various sizes apts. avail. 1-112 miles from ND 233-2098 
5 Rooms for rent on Football week• ends. Many happy repeat cus­tomers. 2 miles north of campus 277-8340 
WANTED 
STUDENT WORK $14.50 Base-appt. 
Vector Mkt. is filling PT cust. svc./sales positions {5-20hrs) Flex. around classes. Scholarships. Cond. apply www.worklorstudents.com/np call M-W 12-Spm 282-2357 
FOR SALE 
Northsore Condo, 1428 Marigold way near ND, 1 bdr, 1 bath, LR, DR & kitchen with appliances. 1 car garage. $69,000. Call Doris at 254-1772 
'88 GMC SLE pickup truck. Looks good, runs great. Call Mark at 273· 0449. 
'98 Men's Schwin Frontier 19" Mountain Bike. Like New. Call 277· 8208 after 3:30 
TICKETS 
ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE AM. -232-2378 P.M. -288-2726 OBSERVER DRIVER NEEDS TWO GA'S TO ANY GAME CALL JACK 674-6593 
Have: 4 WVU and 4 Navy tix. 
Need: ND-BC tix and/or cash 
Call Bob at 219-315-8964 
BUY-SELL 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS 
277-6619 
ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED 
A. M -232-2378 
P.M. -288-2726 
ND tickets for sale. Lowest prices. 232-0964. 
WANTED • ND TICKETS 289-9280 
Wanted: ND vs BC tickets. Please 
call 4-1157 
Buying some/ Selling a few extra 
N.D. Football Tickets. 
219-289-8048. 
Need 2 tix, student or GA to USC game. Call Noreen at 284-4417. 
USC: Loyal alum who missed the lottery needs 6 USC tix. Top Dollar! Ask for Gary at toll free (888) 893­6753 or Gehura@pegrehab.com 
WANTED U2 TICKETS 232-0964 

Need 2 BC tickets to buy/trade tor 2 
W. Virginia. Call 247-9811 

Help! Family Coming inl Need West Virginia Tickets. Please call Kerry al 243-0928 
Need 5 USC Tix. Call Steve at 
634-4896 
PERSONAL 

SPRING BREAK Largest selection of Spring Break Destinations, Including Cruises! Rep Positions, Free Drinks and Free trips available. www. EpicuRRean.com 1-800-231-4-FUN 
WANTED: SPRING BREAKERS! Sun Coast Vacations wants to send you on Spring Break to Cancun, the Bahamas, Jamaica or Mazatlan FOR FREEi To find out how, call 1­888-777-4642 or email: sales@sun­coastvacations.com 
Spring Break Insanity! WWW.INTER-CAMPUS.COM or call 1-800 ·327-6013 Guaranteed lowest prices! All desti­nations! Fifteen years experience! Wanted: Representatives and orga­nizatoins, earn top $$$, build your 
resume 
SPRING BREAK PARTYI Indulge in FREE Travel, Drinks, Food and Parties with the Best DJs and celebrities in Cancun, Jamaica, Mazatlan and the Bahamas. Go to StudentCity.com, call 1-800-293­1443 or email sales@studentcity.com to find out more. 
Friends are friends forever. I need to call my best friend. He's nice 
I miss my Jennifer. 
Woo woo.. aww yeah 
Two Hours of sleep. 1 conquered you, with a little help from the greatest girlfriend ever. 
Can I get a woo woo... awww awww awwyawaw 
He's bad horse for life and death and eternity. 
Luck rules So does 90210. Da da da da... da da da ... da da . la da . la da de de da da.. la da dadad dadada... I love that theme song. 
I saw Beverly Hills on television today. it remains the most awe­somest town on the world. 
I am not a victim. I am not a cryer. I am who I am. I do what I do and all that I ever told her was 'I love you' 
Ken-Doll rocks!' 

.... 
Tuesday, October 2, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
Football 
continued from page 20 
some ideas off me," he said. 'Tm just going to be there in a little more of a support role. I'm just trying to help Kevin, help our team, help in any way I can to solve this problem." 
Notre Dame's offense is conservative -something coaches feel may have developed after Notre Dame's 27-10 loss at Nebraska -which is fine with Davie. 
But what is hurting the Irish the most is their offensive mistakes. 
Three games into the season, the Irish already have nine turnovers -one more than all last season -and have only converted 12 of 46 third down attempts. 
"If you arc going to be as conservative as we are, then you'd better execute at a very high, high level," Davie said. ''We are not doing that." 
But what the Irish are lacking is the capability to make big plays. Their longest passing play this season has only been 19 yards long and Tony Fisher's 35-yard scamper against Nebraska remains the longest rushing play the Irish have pulled off. 
It's not that opposing defenses are throwing complicated schemes at the Irish. Texas A&M only blitzed twice dur­ing Saturday's game. Instead. the Aggies seemed content to let the Irish beat them with a big play -something they haven't been able to do this season -a strategy Davie said he would use if he were coaching against the Irish. 
. 'Td sit back and then beat you with offense," he said. "Don't give up a big play because it doesn't like right now we are going to generate a big play on our own. There doesn't seem to be a whole lot of explosiveness." 
Holiday started at quarterback against Texas A&M and will start again this week against Pittsburgh because Davie hoped he could provide that explosive­ness. Although Holiday carried 12 times for 23 yards and was 6-for-13 passing with two interceptions before leaving with a sprained neck at the end of the firsl. half. Davie felt Holiday showed flashes of what the coaching staff believed he was capable of. 
But Holiday made several key mis­takes that hurt the Irish. On Notre Dame's first offensive drive Saturday, with the ball deep in Aggie territory, Holiday missed a wide-open tight end John Owens in the corner of the end zone. 
The next play, his pass that was intended for David Givens was intercept­ed in the end zone. And late in the sec­ond quarter Holiday underthrew Givens again, resulting in another Aggie inter­ception. 
And it wasn't just Holiday. Lovecchio was ineffective at quarterback in the second half. The offensive line gave up six sacks. Receivers dropped balls. 
"The bottom line is it's not what you do -it's how you do it," Davie said. "The best laid plans in a game some­times get discombobulated. There's much more premium on how you do things, not what you call. There's no magic scheme. The bottom line is to play hard and execute and be mistake free and not make the big dramatic mistake." 
"The plays themselves arc just fine," said Holiday. "We just haven't been able to execute at certain times, and we have to do that in order to win." 
Davie doesn't know exactly what is wrong with the offense. But by getting more involved with the offensive plan­ning, he hopes to get the Irish back on track. 
"We all feel the same way," Davie said. "You keep waiting. You keep waiting, but it's just not happening. You certainly feel like the energy and the emotion and the ·want to' is there, and the chance to do it is there. But it just hasn't come." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL GOLD LEAGUE 

Late pass rescues Lions 
ByMATTLOZAR 
Sports Writer 
After letting the opponent comeback from two touch­downs late in the game, a team can play for the tie, or go for the vi.in. · 
The Lions of Lyons Hall chose the latter, and used a late touchdown drive to give them a 20-12 win over Pangborn on Sunday. 
With the score tied at 12 and under a minute to play, the Lions went 65 yards in 35 seconds for the winning touchdown. A 10-yard pass from junior quarterback Sarah Jenkins to sopho­more Allison Shenk capped off the five-play drive. 
"It was a tense situation," said Lyons captain Irene Onyeagbako. "But we were confident and luckily, we came through." 
The Phoxes made the lions sweat with two touch­downs in tho last 10 min­utes of the second half. Their second touchdown, a 35-yard reverse halfback pass to sophomore Tia Vonil highlighted the Phoxes' charge. 
"We didn't really practice that exact play." said Pangborn senior co-captain Nicole Tutin. "We kinda had something close to that, it was a variation called in the huddle." 
Lyons' offense was led by Jenkins. Her three touch­down passes, two to Shenk and the other to senior Megan Chandler, highlight­ed her superb performance. 
"She [Jenkins] had an excellent game," said Onyeagbako. "The whole offense really went to the next level and executed so well." 
Freshman quarterback Charlotte Troupis, along with Vonil and Tutin, car­ried the Phoxes' offense. Tutin scored the Phoxes· first touchdown on a short run to ignite their come­back attempt. 
Breen-Phillips 6, Badin 6 
Big plays on both sides of the ball from the Breen­Phillips Babes and Badin Bullfrogs led to a 6-6 tie on ·Sunday. 
BP scored first, on a 78­yard touchdown run from senior quarterback Katie McFarland, in the first half. 
"We came out flat in the first half," said BP senior captain Jenny Wahoske. "Katie's run really helped 
us." 

Badin answered the BP · score with a nine-play drive. Junior Courtney Giel's fingertip catch on a 25-yard touchdown pass from sophomore quarter­back Erin Zachary tied the game for Badin. 
"She [Giel] made an unbelievable catch in the first half." said Badin junior captain Amy Marshall. 
After that scoring, both defenses shut down the opposition. BP recorded three sacks and one inter­ception. Wahoske led the BP defense with two sacks and numerous pass deflec­tions. 
"Our defense played real­ly well," said Wahoske. "We got our hands on a lot of passes that should have been intercepted ... 
The Bullfrog defense made some of their own big plays. They allowed only three first downs and inter­cepted the Babes on their last two drives. Sophomore Cindy Adimari's intercep­tion in the end zone kept the Babes from a late win­..... ning touchdown. 
"Our defense really stepped up in the second half," said Marshall. "Suzie Schaab and Cindy Adimari made interceptions that gave us some great oppor­tunities." 
The tie gave the Babes some encouragement but they would have preferred a win. 
"A tie's OK, it takes our record to 1-1-1," said Wahoske. "The game was good, but could have been better." · 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu. 
What does the Church teach? Why does it matter? Have questions and need a place to ask them? Each one credit course in the series "Know Your Catholic Faith" will reflect on a central feature of the Catholic faith, so that students come away with a clear idea of what the Church holds on these topics as well as a basic theological and personal understanding of them. The courses will be based on the Catechism of the Catholic Church plus other pertinent texts, supplemented by personal reflection and experiential learning where appropriate. These courses should meet the needs of those students who know little or nothing about the faith, as well as those who are familiar with the faith but do not feel they have a clear grasp of certain features of Christian doctrine. The courses will be presented in a variety of formats and venues. 
Courses Now Open for Enrollment: 



The Sacraments 
Theo. 340B. 1 credit. S/U Instructor: Pamela Jackson 
Wednesdays, 5:30 p.m. -7:35 p.m., Oct. 3, 10, 17, 31, Nov. 7, 14 Coleman Morse Center, Rm. 330 

Creation 
Theo. 340C. 1 credit. S/U Instructor: John Cavadini 
. , Mondays, 6:00 p.m.-8:05 p.m., 
~.JIii ~;~u~h1!at9c:;~:~ ~~:! 

Prayer 

Theo. 340A. 1 credit. S/U Instructor: Lawrence Cunningham 
Sundays, 6:15 p.m.-8:20 p.m., Sept. 30, Oct. 7, 14, Nov. 4, 11, 18 Coleman Morse Center, Rm. 330 
Forfurther information about registering/or these courses, contact Dorothy Anderson in the Theology Department, 631-6662. Syllabiforthecoursescan be obtained at the Theology Dept. main office. 
r------­
1 
1 page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, October 2, 2001 
I
I ======================================================================================================================== 
Golf 
continued from page 20 
year], Lunke said. "I like it more. It's more competing with one another and just working on short game." 
At the beginning of the season, the Irish, under new coach John Jasinski, were practicing twice a day. 
"Now it's practice that fits around your schedule, because everyone knows what they need to work on," Lunke said. "Last season there was a set practice for the team, but golfs real indi­vidual and everyone has differ­ent things they need to work 
on." 
A line-up change before the tournament enabled Lunke to play at the Wolverine lnvitational. The Trish's top per­former for the weekend and freshman Ryan Marshall replaced Gavin Ferlic and K.C. Wiseman, based on perfor­mances from last weekend's Earl Yestingmeier Invitational. 
It turns out Jasinski made a good decision, and Lunke was glad to have the opportunity to help his team. 
"I was really happy with this weekend," Lunke said. "I kind of gave some shots away coming down, but ! was pleased." 
Steve Ratay, last year's top golfer for the Irish, had a solid performance, finishing in 27th place after two rounds of 7 4. Marshall and junior Chris Whitten finished 76th and 92nd, respectively. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu. 
~~ 
~·~ 

Aggies feast on Irish saltines 
Have you ever played that saltine cracker game? 
You know the one. You find one of your unsuspecting friends, bet him or her that they can't eat five saltines in one minute. they say that's easy, and then you watch them struggle through the plaster of Paris that is now their mouth. 
Yeah, well, I found one friend such in O'Hare Airport's Chili's on Friday. We were waiting for our flight to College Station. 
And for what must have been the first time in the histo­ry of the world, or at least stu­pid bets, someone ate (and swallowed) those five crackers with six seconds to spare. 
I was a little deflated after throwing down my impossible gauntlet only to see him rip through it like Nitro on American Gladiators. 
I tried to figure out how he did it. Maybe the crackers weren't regulation size (they did look a little small). Maybe the rules called for six and not five or for a SO-second eating window. 

But in the end, no matter what the reason, I lost. Bob Davie had a similar weekend. 
"Right now on offense, I don't think there's much confi­dence, and it's been well­intentloned, but the bottom line, it hasn't happened right now," Davie said. 
Obviously, the Notre Dame head football coach was not referring to the saltine chal­lenge in my horribly construct­ed segue. 
But there is a certain simi­larity (work with me here). Anyone can look to Notre Dame's 24-3 loss to Texas A&M on Saturday and try to pick out specifics concerning why the Irish haven't done much at all this season. 
The only things that people remember are the final scores. 
So far, Michigan State ate the crackers in somewhere around my friend's time. The Huskers and the Aggies wolfed them down in about 20 sec­onds. 
I didn't start this column the way I did because I think it's particularly funny. insightful or a good working metaphor. 
Instead, like the entire Irish football community, I'm at a loss. And the most memorable thing I could think of from this weekend's travel was the cracker story (that, and taking a sharp jab to the shoulder from an airport sliding door). 
I could trot out statistics about lack of touchdowns scored or lack of big plays pro­duced or lack of wins notched. 
That's useful for a while, to illustrate a point. but you've heard them all already. Heck, you watched the game. I wouldn't be offended if you didn't offer me immediate Mensa membership if I told you this team is bad right now because it didn't do x, y, and z. 
Davie said it all on Sunday. Talking about his offense: ''We don't seem to have much banked fundamentally, or even scheme-wise, right now that we can do, that we can exe­cute at a high level or get our players into a comfort zone with." 
A little later on: "We've kin<l of gotten ourselves kind of into a -you know, I'm not sure what we are on third down." 
But what really struck me reading through the transcript of his teleconference was his frank assessment of the big picture of his team, probably right on with all Notre Dame fans. 
~I think when you look at it, the thing that's so disappoint­ing to me is how many ... plays where there's no chance, just no chance. We look like a poorly-coached football team, and that's hard for me to swal­low and hard for me to say. but that's what I see." 
Davie said what all of us know: it's not that the Irish are 0-3, it's how they've played in getting there that makes play­ers, fans, and coaches alike cringe. 
I travel to the away games to broadcast them on WVFI. I must admit. I'm often very vocal in my criticism of what's going on down on the field, at least much more so than I am here. 

Part of that is due to the emotion of the game that unfolds as live drama. And part of that is due to the fact that I know I'm not also talking to the players, as I do here each week. 
That's probably wrong. It's like I'm a fifth grader laughing until the teacher comes in and then hiding the whoopie cush­ion behind my back. 
But I also know these guys are worrying about the same things I worry about at the same age, and despite getting all fired up during the games, we are still just kids. At least until we graduate. 
So yes, the Notre Dame foot­ball team's performance is inexcusable thus far this sea­son. Yes, I can refer to third down inefficiency or lack of yards or the near non-exis­tence of points. 
Fact is, it's all been said, and everyone knows the numbers. 
So I chose to talk about crackers, one of the more amazing parts of my weekend. 
And you know, I really wish someone could tell me what was going on there. · 
Contact Ted Fox at tfox@nd.edu. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LONDON PR 


SUMMER2002 

Four and a half weeks for six hours of' academic credit: (May 15 -June 16) 

\,'\/L"'d.nes<la_}-', Oct,_)l:>er ()3, 204.) l 7; ()() P I\ll 
l ...;(_)<.:~~-/\_ T'f()''..'-l: .ll.()(.)i'\-1 • 3,,J_ l>E-13-<c\.J{.'r{)l-"() 
(Th!f;,~s€.:: intereste,d in S'unune:r 2003 are ulso .in·vited) 

()t~ cadt I -~0622 ~·Londt;,n Sun1rner l"rn~ir~uu ()fficc) ·fot· u.n ~pph{..~ation ~ind progra,u int·,.:n-n1,a t'iou 
Tuesday, October 2, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page IS 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles fall to Alma, sweep past Rochester 
By KATIE McVOY Associate Sports Editor 
Communication was key to the Belles in a 1-1 weekend finish. 
After dropping the first match to Alma 3-0, Saint Mary's stepped up play and solidified team communication for a 3-0 win against Rochester. 
"I thought we communicated a lot better in the second game compared to the first game," senior Jamie Dineen said. 'That was basically the key." 
The increased communication allowed the Saint Mary's defense to dominate Saturday afternoon. The Belles held Roche~ter to 49 total points. keeping the team under 20 in all three games. Meanwhile, the Saint Mary's offense kicked in and picked up the pace. 
"We ran a really quick offense to stay up and keep on our toes," Dineen said. 
With captain and leading defender Angie Meyers out with a torn ACL, the young members of the team had to step up play, which they did very well. 
Freshman Alison Shevik led the team with 14 digs, 13 kiUs and 28 total attacks. 
"[Shevik's) been doing great," Dineen said. "All the underclass­men arc stepping up and our coach is trying new girls at differ­ent positions." 
A solid 30-15 victory in game one of the match got the Belles off on the right foot. They took the lead early in all three games 
Teach children the importance of compassion in the world. 
Teach them to make adifference. 
eac 

¦ 
ACE has moved to the north side of Badin Hall (the old Campus Ministry offices). 
Please stop by to learn how YOU can make adifference! 

and never looked back, taking game two 30-18 and game three 30-16. After_a long stretch of close losses, the win put them back on the right track. 
"We're very happy, very glad to win," Dineen said. "We feel that in a lot of our games in the con­ference we've played really well but our record doesn't justify how we played." 
Match one didn't go as well for the Belles. For the fifth consecu­tive time, the Belles fell to MIM competition. This time they fell to the Scots of Alma. 
"In that game we seemed a lit­tle slow getting to the ball," Dineen said.· "We weren't really talking, there was a lack of com­munication." 
The first game was close. The teams traded points, but Alma came out with the 30-27 win. 

Games two and three were not as close. The Scots took control of play, recording 10 aces to the Belles' three. They wrapped up game two 30-17 and game three 30-22. 
"We seemed so slow the first game ... we knew what we had to do, but we just didn't get the job done," Dineen said. 
Senior Jolie LeBeau led the Belles offense with nine kills and 24 total attacks. Shevik again led the defense with 16 digs and one block. 
The loss dropped Saint Mary's to 1-6 in the MIAA and 2-11 overall. The Belles will take on the Britons of Albion on Wednesday at Albion. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

Kreher leads Irish in road match at Toledo 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Sports Editor 
With the Big East's best player on board, the Irish volleyball team boards the bus today for its first midweek non-conference away game of the season as Notre Dame takes on Toledo at Savage Hall tonight at 7 p.m. 
The No. 22-ranked Irish (7-3) come in with a four-match win­ning streak while the Rockets (7­
3) enter with three wins in a row. Notre Dame comes in on a high note after sweeping Big East rival Virginia Tech 3-0 Friday night and topping Georgetown in four games Sunday. 
Leading the Irish in those two matches was senior opposite Kristy Kreh er. Kreher totaled 32 kills in seven games, posting a . 407 attack percentage. Kreher's efforts earned her the Big East player of the week award on Monday. 
•~u·s the first time I've ever got­ten this award so it's very excit-
ATTENTION All STUDENTSI 
.You're affinvitedto attendtli.e . .. 
2 nd ANNUAL 

ERSONAL, SAFETY/CRIME PREVENT'IO 
NEIG-H:BORH_OOD BBQ­
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 2 
5:00 PM BBQ 
5:30 PM PRESENTATION 800BLOCKoF 
E. WASHINGTON 
DIRECTIONS 

Front ND, drive down J1'niper/Eddy St. and take a right onto Washington (it's the street after Colfax). Lookfor the big tent/ 
THIS GATHERING IS BROlJGllT TO YOlJ BY 
TOM & MARK KRAMER OF DOMUS PROPERTIES INVESTMENTS, LLC 

PERSONAL SAFETY INFO/ CRIME PREVENTION TIPS! FREE BURGERS & DOGS! FREE SODA! 
Come andspendan evening cif'Witfi. ... 
Stu.tfents e:l, Soutfi <.Bend '-Rf!sitfents Soutfi <.BendCFo{ice <Department Notre <Dame Security/<Pofice :MD Office of~siaence Life ~:Housing 

ing," Kreher said. 'Tm very hon­ored to be chosen for it." 
After playing Georgetown on Sunday, the Irish would normally take a day off on Monday. Instead, the team practiced on Monday and heads east to play Toledo for the first time since 1998. 
"We're excited to play again, to be able to focus on stuff on our side of the net," Kreher said. "Toledo's not as strong as some of the other opponents that we've had but it's still a match." 
One of the keys for the Irish this past weekend was success on the block. Notre Dame totaled 21 blocks in the four-game win over Georgetown, including nine by Malinda Goralski. 
Notre Dame hopes to continue that success tonight, albeit by a slightly different approach . Whereas Georgetown's leading scorers played on the outside, Toledo is led by junior middle blocker Jessica Buck and senior middle blocker Lindsey Kretzmann. With the attack com­ing from the inside, Irish head coach Debbie Brown changed her defensive strategy. 
"We're going to do what is call'ed a commit block where we're actually jumping maybe a little ahead of the hitter or for sure right on time with them," Brown said. "We anticipate that we'll get more solo blocks against this team because typically we're not going Lo comm'it two people on it but we could commit one." 
After Sunday's success against the Hoyas, the Irish look to use their advantage on the block tonight. 
"They're not a very strong blocking team at all," Brown said. "In fact, [Irish senior Malinda Goralski] averages more blocks a game than their whole team. Their middles are very offensive, but. they're not really blockers." 
Kreher is just looking forward to the team unity on the road to Toledo. 
"We like road trips," Krehcr said. "Bus trips are fun. We have a lot of fun on the bus." 
Contact Noah Arnstadter at nam­stadt@nd.edu. 
,-·--­
Tuesday, October 2, 2001 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL BLUE LEAGUE 
McGlinn takes home first win in 4 years 
. Shamrocks score winning TD on game's final play 
By KEN CHAMPA and PHILIP KOESTERER Sports Writers 
The senior leaders of McGlinn's interhall football team had to wait four years, but a win like this was more than worth it, as the Shamrocks stunned the Off­Campus Crime 6-0. Using perhaps the most exciting fin­ish of the season to beat Off­
"They just said 'go deep', I wasn't really expecting it [the pass]." said Wong after the game. 
"It couldn't have ended any better," said seuior team cap­tain Marv Lenzini. who sealed off the fiiial block to get Wong into the end zone. 
The game's final play was a complete role reversal from last year's outcome when Off­Campus defeated McGlinn on a similar Hail Mary play. 
''What goes around comes around,'' said tight end Sarah Vatterott who admitted that the team was getting a little nervous as the game went on. 

Campus (0­4), McGlinn (1-1-1) earned its first victory in four  "They just said 'go deep', I wasn't really expecting it [the pass]."  "We were cocky going into it [the game], and gol a little too relaxed," said Vatterott  
years. With only 15 seconds  On-Kay Wong McGlinn receiver  about her team's attitude before the  
left  in  a  game.  
scoreless  The game was  

kept close by an outstandingtic, McGlinn put in senior 
defensive performance by the
Pam Kruger at quarterback to 
Crime. The Crime's defensive
take the snap on the final 
line made their living in the
play. Taking the snap from Shamrock backfield all day,
her own territory, Kruger 
making life terrible for
looked deep and launched a 
McGlinn's starting quarter­
bomb to freshman wide receiver On-Kay Wong, who back Julie Kremer. 
The Crime limited Kremerreeled in the pass and ran in 
to a meager five for 15 per­10 yards for the score. 
Wong was just as surprised formance with three intercep­tions. Two of those intercep­
as her teammates about how tions were courtesy of stand-the game ended. 
out cornerback Erin O'Keefe. 
"Despite Erin's great game, they managed to win just barely," said Elizabeth White of the Crime. 
Off-Campus nearly sealed a victorv when, after one of O'Keefe's interceptions, Caitlin Wolf took an option pitch and ran for 20 yards, the Crime's biggest play of the day, bringing them inside the Shamrock 20-yard line with less than five minutes to play. 
However, the drive then ended on the next play, as 
McGlinn intercepted  a  pass  
and proceeded to go  on its­ 
game winning drive.  

The game sparked the con­fidence of the Shamrocks for the remainder of the season while the Crime must battle on with another disappointing loss. 
'Tm speechless. 1 have no idea what to say right now." said Off-Campus head coach Brian Wahl. 
Howard 13, Farley 0 
Despite showiug signs of life, the. Farley Hall offense still couldn't connect in its 13-0 loss to Howard Hall on Sunday. 
Farlev coach Chris Cordes said that despite the lack of production, his team executed much better. 
"[Howardl's sideline was calling out where we would be running our plays before 

we ran them, and we still throughout the game with managed to get significant various receivers, most positive yardage," said notably Elizabeth Klimek, Cordes. who caught a Jong touchdown 
The seemingly psychic pass in the first half to put Howard defense ended two Howard on the board. Veselik potentially threatening drives also hooked up with Klimek 
by picking off Farley quarter­back Megan Sheehan twice in the  "[Howard's] sideline was calling out where we would be running our  on several key passes during .,II o w a rd ' s scoring drive in the second half.  
red zone. The second intercep­tion came  plays before we ran them, and we still managed to get positive yardage. "  Farley player Claire Kenkel described the game as a  
late·in the  "  h  u  g  e  
second half via defend­er Christina  Chris Cordes Farley coach  improvement" for her team's offense.  
Fujii. Quarter­ "We were much quicker  

back Jill Veselik and her executing the play:;," said Howard teammates took full Kenkel. advantage of that turnover, Cordes knew what his team driving the length of the field was missing. 
to score on a quarterback "It was execution in the reel keeper. zone. When you give up two 
The Ducks successfully con­big interceptions like that, it verted for two points to solidi· kills all the momentum," he fy their lead over the Finest. said. 
Howard coach Brad Untiedt The Farley coach remained contributed his team's offen­optimistic. however. sive success to their ability to ''I'm so proud of the girls adjust to Farley's zone right now," said Cordes. defense. "They played a hundred times 
"Finding holes in the zone better than last week." and perfectiug our passing routes" helped to move .the ball in the second half, said Contact Ken Champa at kcham­Untiedt. pa@nd.edu and Philip Koesterer 
Veselik had success at pkoesterer@nd.edu. 
Take1:he URBAN A 48-HOUR IMlvIERSION EXPERIENCE INTO URBAN COl'vflvIUNITIES THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY. STUDENTS MEET LOCAL INDIVIDUALS. WORK WITH AGENCIES. VOLUNTEER FOR PARISHES AND WITNESS THE DAILYENVIRONMENT OF URBAN AREAS IN THE UNITED STATES. "WHERE? WHEN? In nearly fifty (50 !) U.S. Cities The· week of January 3-10 If you live near a city -Specific 48 hour period YOU can take· the plunge! Set by each Site. INTERESTED? NEED TO KNOW 1"1:0RE? COME TO AN INFORMATION SESSION! WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 2, 5:00 PM AT THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS Questions? Contact Rebecca Pettit 63·1-9970/Pettit.3@nd.edu at the CSC Registration Forms available at the Center for Social Concerns Albany •Rlbuquerque...eoston..Buf-ralo•Chlcago+Cinclnnatl...Cleueland Columbus...Oallas...oenuer..oesMolnes...oetrolt•Gr-andRaplds...nonolulu Houston•Loulsullle•lndianapolfs•Mobife...NewYork+Oalcland...Phlladalphla PhoenlH•Plttsburgh•St.Petersburg...southBend...sanRntonlo San Diego•Tacoma•Washlngtono.c....nND MOREJ  



Tuesday, October 2, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
MEN'S INTERHALL GOLD LEAGUE 
Demko interception leads Dawgs over 'Roos 
endzone. and no points until the closing Gritlins (0-2) and the Manorites Spreitzel, who had to fill in for the 
By ANTHONY BISHOP, 
With the score 14-7, Alumni minutes of the fourth quarter. (1-1) did not disappoint. Both regular starting quarterback, and 
DAVE COOK and MATT 
became strategic and kept pos­"Bottom line, they came out to defenses stepped up for the sec­senior receiver Mike Riley were a
DeNICOLA 
session of the ball. With several play," said Knight's captain Brent ond week in a row, resulting in a big part of that. 
Spores Writers 
more good runs behind the line­Morlok. 7-6 score in favor of the Spreitzel found Riley for several men, they managed to keep the Dillon captain and quarterback Manorites. However, both offens­completions, especially during the 
A critical Keough interception ball and kill the clock, protecting Tayt Odom said before the game es seemed to falter for the second first series. gave Alumni its first win of the their lead. that Dillon's strategy would be to week in a row as well. "We were missing a lot of play­season -14-7 against the "Alumni did a good job of mix­run the ball. In the game they A first drive touchdown by the ers, and were worried about hav­Kangeroos. ing the pass and the run," said executed this strategy perfectly. Manorites threw off the Griffins, ing enough players to compete," 
After an Alumni fumble Keough Hess. ''I'd have to say they're one The offensive backfield consist­and gave Morrissey some confi­said Baum. "But we just decided captain and quarterback Andy of the better teams in the league." ing of Jason Visner, Kevin dence. to get out there and stick it to Hess was intercepted by Alumni With the win, Alumni kept their McCarthy, Chris Crane and Odom "They threw a lot more than we them." linebacker Tommy Demko on hopes for the playoffs alive, while combined for 27 carries and expected," said Dilworth. "It took !3ut it was Stanford that almost third down, Demko returned the Keough loses ground in the play­scored all four touchdowns for us off guard." had the last word. With the game ball 15 yards before being forced off race. Both teams are tied with the Big Red. Odom scored three However, when Stanford winding down, Stanford's Vic out of bounds. Keenan and Morrisey behind of those touchdowns on quarter­switched from a 4-4 to a 4-3 Monaco pulled down a crucial 
That was all Alumni needed to Dillon, the only team undefeated back keepers. defense, Morrissey had offensive interception. Mark McNamee and put the ball in the endzone. On in the league. Odom gives most of the credit struggles, and was unable to the Griffin offense seemed to pick the Dawgs next possession, the "We have to give a lot of credit to the success of the Dillon offen­score again. The success of this up after that for one final drive. offensive line took over. to the offensive line for the win," sive line. adjustment left it up to the Griffm The Griffins got their first 
"The offensive line opened up says Alumni captain Nick 'Tm pleased with the way the offense to win. touchdown of the year with only big holes and the team was disci­Linstroth. "And the whole team offensive line did. They opened However, with the quarterback seconds remaining, bringing the plined," said tailback Brandon was more disciplined and orga­up a lot of holes for us," said missing and a running back filling score to 7 -6. What happened next Nunnink. nized this week. I'm very pleased Odom. "It was nice to beat the the spot, Stanford had trouble would spark some controversy. 
Nunnink scored shortly after ¥.1th the improvements." defending champs." controlling the ball. An intercep­"We went for two and the win," the interception. The Knights struggled to find tion, three fumbles and two said Dilworth. "We thought our 
In the second half, Alumni Dillon 29, Keenan 8 their rhythm the whole game. At botched snaps killed almost every guy got in. On both sides of the marched down the field and Keenan was seeing nothing but the end of the half, freshman scoring drive. ball that was the worst officiating came to just inside the 20-yard red following Dillon's 29-8 victory quarterback Patrick Downey had "We played like [expletive]." I have ever seen ... it was ridicu­line. There, Keough seemed to over the Knights Sunday after­no completions and two said Dilworth. 'Tm pissed." lous." tighten up its defense and it noon. turnovers. Each time Stanford would However, the officials saw it dif­looked as if the Dawgs would Following last year's heart­It was not until the fourth quar­threaten, the ball seemed to end ferently. have to settle for a field goal. But breaker to Keenan in double ter that Downey connected with up in the hands of the other team. "That's what the refs saw and on third down, the call again overtime, the Big Red came into tight end Ed Wasilewski for a During a tough sequence for the that's the way they saw it," said went to Nunnink after an audible this game with a little more inten­touchdown. Griffins, they turned the ball over Baum. "From my perspective, it by Chris Cottingham. sity and a little more emotion "Downey didn't play too badly," three consecutive times, including didn't look like he made it in." 
Nunnink went through a gaping than Keenan. And it showed. said Morlok. "There were a lot of a fumble from the two yard line. But the Griffins don't feel like hole and bounced his way to the "Last year's game was big in gaps in our offensive line." "That was rough," said their season is over. endzone with one final leap to get our mind," -said Dillon linebacker Despite going 0-5 on passing Dilworth. "It took away all our "We lost, but I don't think we him across the line. J.P. Camardo. "We're proud of attempts in the first half, Downey possessions." got beaten," said Dilworth. "We 
However, Keough refused to what we accomplished." finished the game with six com­That was exactly what are going to have to win and win give up the game that easily. Last year· Keenan defeated pletions on eleven attempts. Morrissey had in mind. by a lot [in order to] get the point 
From the 35-yard line, Hess Dillon on a field goal in double · "We put a big drive together in differential up and hope for the dropped back for a pass and con­overtime, sealing an 11-8 victory Morrissey 7, Stanford 6 our first offensive series and ate playoffs." nected with receiver Brian and a spot in the championship Last week, Stanford captain up a lot of clock," said Morrissey Adams. Adams was initially hit, game. Keenan went on to become Dave Dilworth said that on a captain Andy Baum. "It's those Contact Anthony Bishop at but not tackled as he bounced off the interhall champion. scale of 1 to 10, this game was a kind of drives that win in inter­abishopl@nd.edu, Dave Cook at of several Alumni players and In this year's rematch, Keenan 10. hall." dcook2@nd.edu and Matt broke outside to stroll into the was held to only four first downs The match-up between the Freshman quarterback Pete DeNicola at mdenicol@nd.edu. 
Omhudsperson 
The University of Notre Dame is pleased to 
announce that Professor Maxwell Johnsol'il 
will serve as University Ombudsperson for Discriminatory Harassment. 
If you are a victim of discriminatory harassment and do not know where to turn, ca11 the University Ombudsperson for Discriminatory Harassment at 631-3909. 
The University of Notre Dame believes in the intrinsic value of all human beings. It is, mo~ov1;r, commit!~.to the 1u; pe~c:r::rnent by participation of all its members in the educational endeavor it fosters. Accordingly, the University prohibits rscnmrna ory all faculty, administrators, staff, and sWdents. 
• is h sical conduct intentionally inflicting injury on the person or property of another, or any intentional
:~!!::!~:~~~~ a~~s~le,_ intentional, andupersistetynt bt~igtyer;~yd~::i9:11~i~~ie~~=;~ihp~~~~:~:~~~~\~1 
others, that is intended to intimidate itS v1ctim(s) from any rnv~rs1 .ac 11 , . • , . , _ immediate physical retaliation. Harassment in general rs prohibited in the University s regulations. 
·r · ddf ·1 · ompanied by intentionally demean-
Conduct as described above constitutes discrimi_n~tory harassn:ent. ': in a / 10~,~ .1s.~c~r disability of the vict1m(s). 
ing expressions concerning the race, gender, rehg1on, sexual onentat1on. na 1ona ngi , 
For a fuller description of discriminatory harassment aml reporting procedures see du Lac. the Faculty Handbook. or Staff Handbook. 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 

Banters leads Belles to 29th 
By DESIREE BROSE 
Sports Writer 
The Belles cross country squad members competed at the Loyola Lake front Invitational Saturday hoping to improve their times and work as team. 
Jackie 
Bauters led 

"The girls did a greatjob timeof21:11. 
the fleet 
Because the 

once again and everyone had fun." season is as the first windingS a i n t 
Nicole Prezioso d o w n . 
Mary's run­Saturday's
junior captain
ner to cross 
the line in 1 4 6 t h place, and the other runners placed just behind her. 
Bauters ran her best race of the year, clocking in at 20:42, Bauters' goal was to beat her last time. which was 20:46. 
Saint Mary's placed 29th overall amongst the 41 par­ticipating colleges. 
Saint Mary's competed against several top schools including Grand Valley State, Loyola University Chicago, 
race provided 
the Belles 

with the opportunity to showcase the skills they have worked on all season. 
"The girls did a great job and everyone had fun," Junior captain Nicole Prezioso said. 
"I think everyone was happy with the race," Prezioso said. 
Contact Desiree Brose at bros5629@saintmarys.edu. 
Marshall University, DePaul University and Georgia State University. 
Bauters, Amy Blue, Jessica Kosco, Jennie Buehler, Erin Thayer, Elizabeth Commers and Kristen Zawinger com­prised the top seven. 
Blue had one of her better 
races of the 
season, with a 

Page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, October 2, 2001 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL BLUE LEAGUE 
Lewis faces Howard in 'Battle of the Birds' 
By MATT MOONEY, BRIAN LONG and JOE HETTLER Sports Wrlrers 
Come tonight, the feathers will fly. 
½'hen the Howard Ducks (2-1) square off against the Lewis Chicks (3-0-1), Howard will face its most challenging test yet. 
"We're treating it like a playoff game," said Howard captain Katie Cawley. "We know it's going to be a tough game." 
Clearly, Howard places a lot of value on this game. A win for Howard would pull them into a tie with Lewis for first place in the Blue League. 
"We need to have confidence and know we can win," said Cawley. "I think we have that." 
Lewis, however, looks to solidify its place in the standings and head into the playoff,;. 
"A win for us secures a playoff spot and keeps us atop the stand­ings in our division," said Chick captain Caitlin Murray. "That's important to us." 
The road to victory will not be an easy one for the Ducks. In order to win, they will have to score. Unfortunately for them, the last three opponents the Chicks have faced have failed to do so. 
"We have an extremely tough defense," said Murray. "It's been a consistent strong point for us and it should be able to handle [Howard's offense] without a problem." · 
However, Howard feels like its defense is no push-over either. The front line is led by two fresh­men. Brin Anderson and Charleen Vinalon. According to Murray, they play fur beyond their years. 
"They did very well [against Farley]. They had at lea.st 5 sacks [between the two of them]. They don't play like freshmen." 
With the defenses matched the way they are, this game may come down to who wins the battle between the two quarterbacks. Erin Nasrallah will lead Lewis's attack, while Howard is led by Jill Veselik. 
In e_ach of their previous games, both quarterbacks had stellar per­formances. Against Farley on Tuesday. Nasrallah dropped four touchdowns on the Finest, passing for three and running for another. 
Veselik was no slouch herself. Against Farley on Sunday, she connected on a deep touchdown pass and also scored on a quarter­back keeper. 
Cawley feels quite confident that Veselik will outdo her counterpart. 
"Jill can read the other team's defenses very well. We think she's better." 
Murray, however, feels con­vinced that the Chicks control their own destiny on offense. 
"We stop ourselves [on offense]. When our offense gets it together, nothing can be done [to stop it]." 
The two teams will meet tonight at 7 p.m. at Riehle West Field for the right to decide which team is fowl and which is fair. 
McGlinn vs. Farley 
Fresh off their first win of the season, the McGlinn Shamrocks are looking to continue their improving ways as they square off against Farley Hall tonight. 
After starting the season with a loss and a tie, McGlinn took advantage of a small Off-Campus team to pull their record to 1-1-1. 
Also hoping to improve on Uieir early season efforts, Farley's Finest will come out Tuesday night looking for that first victory. 
Losses to Howard and Lewis. plus a tie with Walsh, puts Farley's record at 0-2-1. 
Leading Farley's offensive will be quarterback Megan Sheehan, as the team looks to put some points on the board this week. 
"We didn't get off to a great start, but hopefully we can put things together and score a couple points," said sophomore Julie Goolia. 
McGlinn, feeling confident after tasting victory on Sunday, will still concentrate on bringing the team together. On the offensive side of the ball, the Shamrocks will look to receiver On-Kay Wong for her big-play ability. 
McGlinn captain Christa Gray felt that the past few practices for her team have been very produc­tive, and to look for the Shamrocks to come out firing on all cylinders. 
"We don't know what to expect from Farley, but hopefully we will come together as a team and take home another victory," said Gray. 
As Gray stated, these two teams don't really know what to expect from each other, but both squads played Walsh Hall to a tie earlier this season. 
Cavanaugh vs. Walsh 
A powerful offense meets a stingy defense on Tuesday night when Cavanaugh faces off against Walsh in a key interhall football match-up. The winner controls its playoff destiny. while the loser may need help to reach the post­season. 
Both teams have gotten to this point in their seasons by relying on different strengths. Cavanaugh has used a big play offense that scored 28 points in a win over Off-Campus last week, while Walsh's suffocating defense has yet to be scored upon this season. On Tuesday, something has to give. 
"We're pretty much sticking to what's been working for us so far," said Cavanaugh head coach Bart Bruckert. "We're pretty con­fident we can score enough to 
. win each game." Scoring on the Walsh del"ense, however, has been impossible thus far this season. The Wild Women have already racked up four shutout.s in four games. "Our defense has been consis­tently strong," said Walsh co-cap­tain Alison Troy. "We've definitely got some good freshman [on defense] that are helping out a lot." On the other side of the ball, the 
Wild Women will be looking to improve on their anemic offense that has only produced a total of six point'l this season. 
"Our offense has been doing a good job of moving down the field but they've just had trouble get­ting into the end zone," said Troy. "We're just having a little more difficulty with the offense right now." 
Meanwhile, the Chaos defense is coming off a strong perfor­mance from last week in which they forced four interceptions and didn't allow a point. Due to the recent success of Cavanaugh's overall team play, Bruckert believes they are ready to face tonight's test. 
"[Walsh isl a pretty good team, but I think that if we just do everything we said we were going to do in practice, such as a exe­cute, we should be pretty good to go," said Bruckert. 
Troy, on the other hand, knows that Walsh's offense must step up their game if the Wild Women hope to stay undefeated. 
"We know [Cavanaugh] did really well last year, so we're expecting them to be very com­petitive this year," said Troy. "Basically we're going to have to execute well on offense, get the ball down the field, and get into the end zone." 
Contact Matt Mooney at mmooney@nd.edu, Brian Long at blong@nd.edu and Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

I I 
I I 
l I 
The Second Annual Careers for Government Majors Series Inaugural Presentation Introduction by Dean Mark Roche 
John J. McDonough ND'58 "I am not afraid of dying, but Iam afraid of not living." 
IMPACTING THE WORLD: LEADERSHIP &CAREER IN NON-PROFITS 
Wednesday, October 3 119 O'Shaughnessy 12:00 to 1:30 

John J. McDonough is aformer Fortune 500 CEO, the former CEO of Newell Rubbermaid and former Chairman of the Board of the Juvenile Diabetes Foundation. 
Sponsored by the College of Arts &Letters, Arts &Letter Pre-Professional, the Department of Government, the Career Center and Notre Dame Vocation Initiative. Contact: Arroyo. l@nd.edu 

Tuesday, October 2, 2001 
The Observer . TODAY page 19 

EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON for yourself, Moneymaking ven­nns DAY: Will Smith, Heather tures may tum your life around. 
ACROSS 37 Africa's largest 68 Breaks one's 
Locklear, Barbara Walters, Michael Don't hesitate to pick up a pet for
country back1 Color-enhancing 

Douglas, Catherine Zeta-Jones, a companion. 000 apple spray 38 Not Imagined 69 Red beans 
Mark Hamill, Christopher Reeve, VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
go-with 

Scottie Pippen You don't socialize nearly enough. Happy Birthday: Your energy You should enjoy playing games 
5 "Don't take 40 Punch bowl item 
another step!" 43 Salon supply ·10 "Cool!" 
may be high, but that doesn't withchildrenorwithgood.friends9 Flavor 44 Japanese 71 Peace Nobelist 
mean you should take on the today. 00000 14 Outfielder's call immigrant 
Shimon world this year. If you pick proj-LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): ects with care, you'll move for-You're undergoing changes. Go
15 Director Kazan 46 Cyclotron bits 72 Without a date 
ward and achieve a lot. However, with the flow and don't let the 16 Barker or Barnes 48 River to the 73 Teed oft if you try to do too much for unsettled atmosphere ~ on yourNorth Sea everyone else, you'll be disap-nerves. Adding a sophisticated
17 Dismounted 
pointed and fall short of your touch will help create the look 18Down_ expectations. Your numbers: 7, 12, you're trying to capture. 00
49 Subject of many DOWN 
a tabloid photo 

(Maine) 1 Stock up on 15, 31, 38, 40 SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):
53 Center X or 0 

ARIES (March 21-April 19): This is a great day to say the heck 
19 Kingly 2 Purplish bloom 
54 Hyundai Ignore colleagues who appear to with it. You need a break. Invite a 
20 Wide receiver? 3 Baker of soul 
alternative be going in circles. You have more close friend to join you. It's time to 23 Teatro alla 4 Explain anew than enough on your plate stop being so serious. 0000
55 Like Odin 

already. Don't make large pur-SAGIITARIUS (Nou 22-Dec. 2:1):
24 What a tire fits 5 No Mr. Nice Guy 
59 California chases unless you have shopped Implement your thoughts into
around 6Jai _......_......._
amphitheater around and done sufficient your projects at work. Colleagues 25 "C' la vie!" research. 00 and employers will admire your
64 Ham's site 7 Mailing to Santa 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): diplomatic way of handling a
28 Vanity item, 
66 Countess's 8 Spuds You will be craving a change. Pick tough job. Give yourself a pat on
perhaps 
husband 9 Pinches pennies yourself up and take to the road if the back. 000 33 Telecom giant possible. If not, try something CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19):
67 Think tank 10 Pub potables 

new: a restaurant, entertainment You may find yourself in an emo­
36 Pro_ nugget 
11 Obstinate or an interesting course. 00000 tional fix. Get out and do some-GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Be thing physical. It will help you
12 Eggs 

frugal; things could cost more make your decision based on clar­
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PU_z_z_L_E 13 Fam. member 
than you anticipate. If you are ity and a well-thought-out plan. 
Puzzle by Sarah Keller penny-wise now, you will reap the Spend quality tirne with children rewards later on. Learning will be and friends. 00 
I N C A M O R O S E G A M 21 Place to 
T A L C A R E N A S U N I hibernate 35 Comfy spot 56 Beverly Hills' 62 Shamu, for one 
the salvation today, so pick up an AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):
Drive

0 D O R I N N 22 It may be loaded 39 Hula hoop? 63 Designer informative book or surf the net. Direct your energy wisely. You'll 26 Past the shelf 57 Say"#@$%!" Cassini 000 be tempted to become involved in =1--,.+~,__ _. date 41 Mary's TV boss 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): secret affairs or love triangles. It is
58 Fill with joy 64 "The Racer's

42 Env. extra Opportunity for partnerships wise to rely onJour ability to fan­27 On edge 60 Look at a Edge" knocks. You should be able to take tasize to avoi embarrassment. -e+,,.+,,,;..i 29 Pres. Coolidge 45 Like a brand­looker, perhaps sloganeer business or personal relationships 000 new fountain to a higher level. Don't be shy; PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20):
61 "Hold on!" 65 Corn site
---1--1--1 30 Pilot's update, 

pen your warmth will capture their Get involved in groups you j
for short 

interest. 000 believe in, but don't be too giving.
47 Fax or FedEx

31 Gymnast Answers to any three clues in this puzzle LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Devel• You can't promi~e to take on ~ Comaneci 50 Diamond great op some of your good ideas and things that require at least two or
are available by touch-tone phone:

Hodges think about going into business more people to do. 0000 i 
-+-+----1 32 Schlep 1·900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). G A T R E M O T E N O V A 33 Make money by 51 Football Hall-of­Annual subscriptions are available for the Birthday Baby: You are a dedicated, determined individual who will 
l
I T T T R O U T S C R O P conning Famer Gale best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 make a difference to those you meet along life's path. You have dear vision years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. and are practical and loving. 1
F E E E S P R I T T Y N E 34 Inventor Nikola 52 Redbreasts 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialastcom, astromate.com.) I © 2001 Universal Press Syndical1'
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
HAVEN'T YOU HEARD? "DIRTY 
JEANS" ARE THE NEW "IN" LOOK 
I JUST 8oUGHT IT LAST WEEK. AS You MIGHT 
IMAGINE, ACLUB Lll<E 'THIS CoSTS LOTS ANO l.OTS 
AN!) WITH EACH PASSING DAY, .I &ECOME .INCJ:IEASIN.LY 
MORE •COOL" 
Cl 1998 B111 Amend/Dist. by Universal Press Syndicate 
HENCETHE -­CoVER. 
RYAN
TOM KEELEY 

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNINGHAM 
BILLAMEND 
To l<EEP IT To ICEEP HIDDEN FRoM IT '\'OUR MoTHER. PROTECTED? 


THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q ­Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 

Name --------------------------­Address------------------­
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
-

Campus Sports OTHE Campus Sports
BSERVER 

. SMC Volleyball p. 15 
. Men's lnterhall, p. 17 
. 
ND Volleyball, p. 15 . SMC Cross Country, p. 17 

. 
W. lnterhall p.14, 13, 18 . Ted Fox p. 16


PORTS 
Tuesday, October 2, 200 l 

-
t 
l 1 -­
.....­
FOOTBALL 
Davie gets offensive 
• Irish coach gets more involved in planning plays 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Associate Spons Editor 
Tired of seeing mistakes. missed opportunities and missed plays, Bob Davie announced that he would be more involved with offensive planning sessions in order to jump-start Notre Dame's ineffective offense. 
"It's not going to be anything dramatic that you see or all of a sudden I'm calling the plays," he said after practice Monday. "I don't trunk I need to do that, but I do think I need to be more involved from a leadershlp stand­point." 
Notre Dame is statistically among the worst offensive teams in the nation. The Irish are 113th out of 115 Division I-A teams in total offensive yards and dead last in scoring, averaging only 7.66 points per game. On Notre Dame's two touchdowns, the offense has driven a combined 1 0 yards. 
"There's way too many plays where it looks like a Chinese fire drill," Davie said Sunday after­noon. 
Davie insisted that offensive coordinator Kevin Rogers' posi­tion would not be affected. Rogers will still be calling all the offensive plays during the games -in part so Davie can stay focused on his defensive responsi­bilities. 
'Tm going to be more involved with the day-to-day stuff, the 
PETER RICHARDSON/The Observer 
meetings with our offensive 
After watching the Irish score only 23 points in three games, Irish head coach 
coaches just so they can bounce 
Bob Davie announced Monday that he would. be more involved with offensive planning sessions in order to jump-start Notre Dame's ineffective offense. 
see FOOTBALL/page 13 

MEN'S GOLF 
Colnitis' ace lifts Irish golfers 
shown himself to be a key The Irish, exhibiting a Western Kentucky and 
ByJOE LINDSLEY 
member of the team's core, marked improvement from Louisville -teams they lost 
Sports Writer 
aced the par 3, 159-yard their performance last to last weekend. eighth hole during the final weekend, finished eighth in Colnitis finished in 36th The luck of the Irish and a round. a competitive field of 24 at place with a 36-hole total of "Anytime you hit a hole­the University of Michigan's 149.
lineup change contributed to a memorable moment for in-one, you're pretty sur­par 71, 6,700 yard golf Lunke believes that freshman Steve Colnitis and prised," said Brandon course. team's practice routine so helped propel the Notre 
Lunke, laughing admirably Led by Lunke, who shot far this season is going to be Dame's men's golf team to a at his teammates accom­rounds of 69 and 73 to tie the key to their success. plishment. "Steve had a for third, the Irish had a 36-"[Practices} are a little
solid finish at Michigan's Wolverine Invitational. good solid performance. He hole team total of 594. They more intense [than last definitely has the ability to beat District Four competi­
Colnitis, who in his first three tournaments has shoot some low numbers." tor Miami (Ohio). as well as see GOLF/page 14 

ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish netters win on both coasts 
By COLIN BOYLAN 
Sports Wrirer 

While their teammates competed in a tournament more than 2,000 miles away, Irish tennis players Nina Vaughn and Caylan Leslie were making a successful homecoming to Southern California. 
Vaughn, a resident of Corona Del Mar, and Leslie, of Newport Beach, took part in the Adidas Invitational at Palm Springs, Calif. -an individual event that showcased the top talent in women's col­legiate tennis. 
Both players fared well in their first official competition of the new season. 
Leslie fought her way to the finals of the consolation bracket before losing a tough match to UCLA's Lauren Fisher 7­5, 5-7. 7-6. Vaughn followed suit by win­ning her first consolation match and sub­sequently teamed up with Leslie to reach the quarterfinals of the doubles draw. 
And although she stayed focused on the task at hand, Vaughn admits it was nice to be back in California for the weekend. 
"It was nice to be able to see my fami­ly," she said. "We sort of had a home crowd advantage going on there." 
Especially surprising was the play of Sophomore Leslie, whose griHy perfor­mance against the 76th-ranked Fisher proved that she belonged among the top players in the game. 
"I thought Caylan looked leaps and bounds better than she did last year and she was awesome last year," said Vaughn. 
Head coach Jay Louderback agreed. 
"I think Caylan had a very good tour­nament against some tough competi­tion," he said. 
Meanwhile, the rest of the Notre Dame team competed the Georgia Invitational. a four-team tournament among the Notre Dame. Georgia, Kansas State and Miami tennis squads. 
Although not official for the purposes of record keeping, the tournament was nonetheless an important gauge of the team's early season progress. 
Senior Becky Varnum stole the show when she topped Georgia's Anne Nguyen, the 12th-ranked singles player in the nation. 4-6, 6-3, 6-2. Varnum fin­ished the weekend with five victories 
overall, including three in doubles  com­ 
petition.  
Senior Lindsey Green also had  a  solid  

weekend, winning a tough match against Kansas State's Petra Sedlmajerova on Saturday. 
All things considered, Louderback was encouraged by the progress of his play­ers. 
"We played well and we improved as the tournament went on," he said. "I def­initely like what I saw this weekend." 
Contact Colin Boylan at cboylan@nd.edu 
. SMC Volleyball vs. Calvin, Friday, 7 pm. 
OBSERVER 
. ND, SMC Swimming, ND Relays, Friday, 6:30 p.m.
SPORTS 

online dnssifieds 
. ND Cross Country, ND Invitational, Friday, 4:15 p.m.AT AGLANCE . Men's Soccer vs. Georgetown, Friday, 7:30 p.m. http://www.nd.edu/~observer 


