Worst f,eared about Farrelly Brother's newest flick comes true
PARTLY CLOUDY 

Thursday 
..Shallow Hal" features an inspirational speaker who convinces a man that
HIGH 68° 
NOVEMBER 15,
a 250-lb. woman is slender and blopd. · 
LOW 52° 
Scene . page 14-15 
2001 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 52 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



Sexuality series tackles dating scene 
tor Lynn Kachmarik, and stu­ended up at the end of the night, aren't at the top of your mind ... suggestions from the previous
By JILL MAXBAUER 
dents Kathleen Nickson, Angela the group admitted that these it's the values you develop and discussions' evaluation and was 
News Writer 
Fox and Melanie Burke, planned hook-up situations are the norm really need in a relationship. If very pleased with the outcome. the forum and offered personal and very little "dating" actually we were honest with ourselves. They got rid of the fishbowl dis­"Dating Choices," the third advice. occurs we are scared to be alone," said cussion in favor of a larger. forum of Saint Mary's "Whether you among stu­Fean. extended and more casual group
"You need to take care of 
'Understanding and Embracing are 18 or 40, you dents. The independence that a col­talk.
yourselfand your needs
Our Sexuality' series held need to be happy The stu­lege atmosphere often provides "I think the avenue to have stu­Wednesday tackled the topic of first." Kachmarik and put yourselfon the dents in was an important theme dents talk to one another and the college dating scene. said. "You need attendance throughout the talk. learn from one another ... of
right path, and then 
Attracting the series' largest to take care of received "This is a time for me to grow. greater values and diversity of
these [dating] points will. 
audience participants, both male yourself and your value lists of to learn and not necessarily experiences, as well as the simi­and female participants dis­needs and put fall into place.,, characteris­worry about dating ... but I know larities, is the most important cussed many issues on the dating yourself on the tics to deter­if someone comes along, I could aspect of these meetings," Fean spectrum from exclusive rela­right path, and mine what date him without losing myself," said.
Lynn Kachmarlk
tionships to random hook-ups. then these points they are said Fox. The next lecture will take place 
athletic director
"I think this is a topic everyone [dating] will fall looking for in The rest of the evening was Dec. 5 at 7 p.m. in Stapleton is concerned about, and I hope into place." a person devoted to a broad conversation Lounge. The topics to be dis­we made them think about who The group they would on topics ranging from personal cussed are the choices surround­they want to be in relationships started the forum by performing date. The most popular choices histories, how dating changes ing pregnancy, abortion, mar­with," said director of Campus three skits, depicting different were a sense of humor. faith, from freshman year to senior riage and adoption. Ministry Judy Fean, a member of types of dating which takes place. trust, comfort level. intellect, year, and whether friendships the Dating Choices forum plan­While the audience laughed at moral values and relationships between men and women can ning group. the seemingly drunk pick-up with family. last without romance or lust. Contact Jill Maxbauer at 
Fean, along with athletic direc-lines and the places individuals "In the skits, these values The forum planning group took ma.xb3126@saintmarys.edu 
Hurley, Rakow named 
in disclosure lawsuit 
• Security directors sued over role in coroner's· office 
By JASON MCFARLEY 
News Editor 
Two Notre Dame security ofli­cials who serve also as coroners for St. Joseph County were listed as defendants this week in a suit that alleges the men wrongfully divulged 
test results that sug­gested a 4­year•old boy had AIDS. 
The suit, filed in St. Joseph County 


S u p e r i o r Hurley Court by the DeStafano family of South Bend, seeks an unspecified amount of money from county Coroner Chuck Hurley and Deputy Coroner Hex Hakow and calls for Hakow's removal from ofTice. 
Hakow is director of Notre Dame Security/Police. Ilurley is the department's assistant direc­tor. 
South Bend attorney Robert Devetski filed the suit on behalf of Michael and Michele DeStafano and the couple's three children. County commissioners are named as co-defendants in the action. 
The suit stems from the March 18 death of a fourth DeStefano child, Vincent, who died after an accidental fall, according to a statement from Devetski vVednesday. 
Following the boy's death, the DeStefanos chose to donate the 4-year-old's organs and agreed to routine blood tests associated with donation. 
An HIV screening test, known as the ELISA test, conducted-on the boy returned positive results and excluded him from donation. Rakow improperly conveyed that information to the St. Joseph County Special Crimes Unit and 
to non­


police offi­cials, the suit claims. 
The ELISA test is a pre­1 i min a r y, highly sensi­tive test that returns 
Rakow many false 

positive results, Devetski said in the statement. The Western Blot test is the follow-up, conclusive test for the presence of HIV infection. 
Results from that test indicated Vincent DeStefano did not have HIV. 
"Despite knowing the prelimi­nary nature of the ELISA test result, Rakow transmitted infor­mation that Vincent DeStefano had tested positive for HIV/AIDS," Devetski said in the statement. 
Indiana statutes prohibit the release of such confidential med­ical records and makes public employees who disclose privi­leged information subject to dis-
see CORONERS/page 4 
FROM HORROR TO HOPE 



Thursday, November 15, 2001 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Lawbreakers Unite 
This is a call. This is a call to all the evil. immoral. disreputable law-breaking tailgafors out there. WP don't have to take this. 
Tailgating is as much a part of Notre Dame football as the golden dome. And now. the administration. in il.., best 

imitation of the Wir,ked Witch of thf' West, has sent out iL-; dark army of flying monkeys to put a grinding halt to students' good time. 

I'm still at a personal loss to understand how meeting up with family and friends to grill a burger or brat, and yf's, (gasp) perhaps drink a beer bnfore a football game has become such a daunting thorn in this school's side. Please remind me again, who is it that we are suppos­edly hurting? Oh yeah, absolutely no one. It's Notre Dame's vehement protection of no one that is keeping me, ,i. 22-year-old senior. from enjoy­ing a cold beer with my equally legal senior friends. Hey. it all makes perfect sense to me. Wait a minute. no, no it doesn't at all. 
We don't have to take this. Lawbreakers unite! 
This Saturday. I say we do something about this ridiculous crackdown on students actually enjoying theri:1.selves at Notre Dame. Not a 
. protest -<'Specially not a University-approved protest -the administration has repeatedly shovm that they could care less about student sentiment. No. we need to hit them were it hurts -their pocketbooks. Sadly; this is probably the only true way of forcing a change we have any­more. 
Lav\·breaking tailgaters, I say flood the alumni lots. Go to the JACC lot in drones. Disrupt the alumni and the parking attendants in the Senior Bar lot. Don't do anything overtly disrespectful. or illegal. Just be there -in force. Walk up to random alumni and Notre Dame board mem­bers' tailgates and just hang out. Eat thf•ir food and drink their beer. Stand in groups so large the parking attendants can't avcn move new cars into the lots. because they can't get through the massive mobs of students. Annoy the alumni. 
The administration may not take anything we students say to them seriously, but when alurnni start complaining -and start threatening to withhold donations -th(m, we'll get our soccer !folds back. 
It is up to you students. \Ve have one game left this year. I low badly do you want our socc<'r fi<>lds (and they arc our soccer lieldsl back next year'? \'\'ell then do something about it. Make an attack that might actually bring about a positive change. · 
And to you, the administration, I say back off. We aren't hurting any one by tailgating. 
Tailgating is a time-honored tradition that serves only to enrich thr experil~nce of a Notre Dame football game. 
In the -..vords of the Homan philosopher Cenica, "Useless laws only weaken the necessary laws." 
P.S. Seniors, don't forget your marshmallows. Let's go out with a bang. 
Contact Sam Derheimer at Derheimer. l@nd.edu. 
The l'ieu•s expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Obseruer. 
CORRECTIONS/ CLARIFICATIONS 
In rhi: Nov. 14 i~sui: of the Observer, government proft-ssor Oanicl Philpon was inrnrre(rl}' idemified as professor Lionel Jensen. The Observer regn:r~ rhis error. 
The Observer reg,,rds itself ,,s a professional puhlii.:ation and srrives for rhe highest srandards of journalism at all rimes. We ,lo. however, recogni1.c tlur we will make mis rakes. If we h,tvc made a mistake, please coma(r us ;It 631-4'541 so we can correct our error. 
rlH· Ohs.-nw !l.Sl'S '-'l'l 2-4000) is puhli~h.·d Mond.1r d1muµh Frid,,)' <'X<t'f'I durinµ t·x.1111 .md ,·.1c'.111nn p,:rimh. Th,· ( Jh,,:rvn is .1 memhn of rlit· Ass,1..:1.11nl Pr,·\,. :\JI rq>rndunion riµ!ns .ir,· rn,:rvt'd. 
THIS WEEK IN SOUTH BEND 
Thursday  Friday  
. Healing, Health and Care:  . "Les Miserables": Morris  
Music and conversation at  Performing Arts Center.  
the Center for Integrative  7:30 p.m.  
I lealing. 217 S. Michigan  
St.; 251-3840. 7 p.m.  - 
8:30 p.m.  

BEYOND CAMPUS 
Saturday 

. Club Swing: Featuring South Bend Symphony Pops; Morris Perl'orming Arts Center. downtown South Bend; 235-9190. 8 p.m. 
Sunday 
. Holiday Open House: 
Studebaker National Museum. 525 S. Main St.; 235-9714, 9 a.m. -5 p.m. 
Compiled from U-Wire reporls 

Northwestern teams might lose sponsor 
EVANSTON, Ill. 

The Northwestern University athletic department might be without a spon­sor when its current five-year agree­ment with adidas Pxpires in June, Northwestern director of athletics Hick Taylor said Tuesday. 
Taylor blamed the economic down­turn for limiting the number of corpo­rations able to strike a deal. 
Taylor said Nike is. the only remain­ing company that might sponsor the team. after adidas said it would not be interested in continuing its relation­ship with Northwestern when the con­tract ends. Under the terms of the marketing partnership, adidas outfit­ted all Northwestern sports teams with footwear. apparel and accessories. 
But Taylor said he doesn't "hold great hope" that an agreement will be reached with Nike, given the current economic slowdown. 

"This is probably the worst time to be trying to get a continuation of a deal like we had." Taylor said. "There is nobody else in the business right now besides Nike. Everyone else has pulled back." 
Nike's competitors arc exiting the college sponsorship market. Reebok will shell out $250 million in a licens­ing deal with the National Football League. Although adidas recently signed an $8.:3 million deal with University of \Visconsin. <iconomk con­ditions have made the sportswear company more cautious. 

Taylor declined to say how much Northwestern's expiring deal with adi­das was worth. 
Jim Andrews. editorial director or IEG Network's Sponsorship lh~port. a biweekly newsletter that tracks the sponsorship business. said he under­stands the companies' conservative approaches. 
"Companies are_saying they arc very uncertain about what the near-term future will bring," Andrews said. "It boils down to negotiations. bPing tougher now than if the dl)al <~xpir<•d two years ago. It is not th<' b(~St year for having a deal end." 
WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY 
Med school vies for stem cell lines 
ST. LOUIS. Mo. 

\Vith six labs and morn than 100 researchers dedi­cated to the study of animal stem cells, the Washington University School of Medicine is among the nation's leaders in this controversial area of research. And with its prestige and resources. the school stands poised to be among the select institu­tions chosen to take part in the potentially ground­breaking work on human embryonic stem cells. In early August. President George Bush announced he would allocate federal funds for limited study of human embryonic stem cells (ES cells), with the stipu­lation that research would be restricted to those cell colonies. or lines, that already were developed at the time of his announr,ement. \Vhile Bush placed the number of developed cell lines at "60 or morn," sub­sequent investigation nwealcd the figure was closer to two dozen, increasing tlrn competition b1~tween elite q~search centers vying for access to the cell lines. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AcrnWeather ·• forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatun:s  
~}?Friday , ~ 52 (?50··1~·Ci,·,,.,... ii).::. ·.)Saturday 4\ ....••.•.··· ,"."f.•.·· Sunday 68 Monday  


q_Q,~QQQ(} ~ ~ 
Showers T-storms Ra,n Flu·,;ies S~o·~ Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
V,a Assoc,ated Press Graphics/lier 
DUKE UNIVERSITY 

Clotting agent may have lupus link 
DUHi 1AM. N .C. 

Duke University rescarclwrs suggest that us!' ol' a clotting agent commonly USl!d af'LPr surgery should b<\ restricted. The scientists found that th<~ agent known as bovine thrombin producfid an immunP r<'sponsl' that led to lupus-like symptoms in genetically <'ngine<'r<'d mice after one dose. Lupus, an autoimmune~ diseasP in humans, causes behavioral abnormalities. It is nstimat­ed that thrombin is used to c:ontrol bleeding in over 500,000 surgical procedures annually. which researchers say represent about 5 pernmt of surgeries performed in the UnitPd Stat<1s evc~ry ypar. "B0causP lthrombin isl <1nzymati<' and has biological artivity. it can't be mad•~ rhemically inert so its rPactivity and antigPnicity arP carried with it," said !Pad invc•stigator Dr. Jnffrey Lawson. assistant prol'Pssor of' suq.wry and pathology. While• it is still not dear ii' thrombin pro­duces the same effects in humans as it did in mire. sei­cntists are hoping thesP findings will shnd light on tlw human risks of multiple exposures to thrombin. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 

The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon. Thursday, Nov. 15. 
Cl 2001 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY PrH!tuf-9~ 
® © D D D D D D 
High Low Showers Raio T~storme Flurrfe• Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 

V.ia Anoc,atr,t;i Press  
Atlanta  72  48  Las Vegas  
Baltimore  70  47  Memphis  
Boston  62  52  Milwaukee  
Chicago  68  51  New York  
Houston  75  60  Philadelphia  

74  49  Portland  57  46  
73  49  Sacramento  68  48  
63  48  St. Louis  65  49  
66  52  Tampa  78  61  
69  53  Washington DC 70  50  

Thursday, November 15, 2001 

The Observer . NEWS page 3 
UC may revamp admission criteria 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO 

A University of California regents committee Wednesday approved a new admissions policy that would take into account any hardships .a stu­dent had to overcome. 
The 13-2 vote sends the mea­sure to the full Board of Regents, which is expected to adopt it Thursday. Critics had branded the new policy as backdoor affirmative action. 
The move to look at more than applicants' grades and test scores comes six years after the university system eliminated race-based affirmative action. 
The University of California has 130,000 undergraduates and includes the prestigious UClA and Berkeley campuses. 
The proposed new policy, known as comprehensive review, involves looking at grades and test scores plus such things as whether a stu­dent overcame poverty or has special talents or did well in a bad school. 
It has been criticized as a covert way of reviving race­based admissions, now banned by state law. 
"There is concern because when subjective factors are involved, the temptation is too great to use proxies for race within the process," said Kevin Nguyen, executive director of the American Civil Rights Institute. 
Supporters of the new policy, however, maintain it is race­neutral. And the regents added an amendment saying the poli­cy would not be used to inject race into the admissions process. 
Comprehensive review is already in use at most elite uni­versities. UC presently uses it to select about half the student body. UC's eight undergraduate campuses currently must admit at least 50 percent of students on academic criteria alone. 
As one of the nation's leading public universities, UC's deci­sion will send a significant sig­nal to other schools struggling with how to balance academic merit with personal endeavor in an era when using subjective criteria such as race has come under legal fire. 
"Whatever California does has enormous infl1,1ence nation­ally. If it works in California, it probably would work else­where," said David Ward, pres­ident of the American Council on Education. 
Comprehensive review adds four more criteria, including such things rur whether the stu­dent pushed himself or over­came adversity. 
Proponents said the switch, already approved by the UC faculty, sends a message to California high school students that they can get into UC if they make the most of their opportu­nities. 




Culture fest to highlight diversity 
rience that and have a good
By ERIN LaRUFFA 
time," said Vera Lim. presi­
Associate News Editor 
dent of the Asian American 
Association, one of the groups 
Representing cultures from participating in the multicul­around the world, 18 different tural fair. student organizations will "It's a quick and easy way to gather tonight in LaFortune be exposed to culture without Ballroom for Culture Fest even trying," said Joyce 2001, an evening of educa­DeLeon, co-chair of the diver­tion, performances and food, sity division within the office tallowed by salsa dancing. of the president. Along with 
Organized by the Office of other co-chair Oscar Alvzrez, the Student Body President, DeLeon was in charge of plan­the first half of Culture Fest ning the fair. will be a The fair multi-cultural will also 
fair begining "Maybe this will give provide a 
at 6:30 p.m. lesson on
students who don't 
Various stu­diversity ~t dent ethnic normally recognize N o t r e organizations diversity a chance to see Dame to 
ranging a n y o n e
diversity on campus. " 
from the Black w h o Cultural Arts attends, Council to the Jennifer Garczyk according Filipino to DeLeon.
Polish Club president
American Student Organization to the Italian Club -will have booths at the fair. Each club will display information related to its respective culture and most will have free food for other students to sample. Several clubs will also be performing dances or music from their culture. 
Funds for this part of Culture Fest came from Dollars for Innovative and Creative Entertainment. 
"The groups get to showcase their culture and their values, and other people get to expe­
"People 
think there 
is no diver­
sity on this campus, but there is," she said. "Diversity and culture is not this intangible idea. It's something that people you go to class with every day encom­pass." 
Event planners would also like to see students who do not typically attend multicul­tural events at the fair. DeLeon said that at most mul­ticultural events on campus, the majority of participants are minority students. 
"A lot of people feel it's not for them, that it's only for minority students," said DeLeon. By "including clubs that usually don't participate in multicultural events," such as the Polish or German Clubs, DeLeon said she and fellow organizers hope to make all students comfortable at the fair. 
"Maybe this will give stu­dents who don't normally rec­ognize diversity a chance to see the diversity on campus," said Polish Club president Jennifer Garczyk. 
After the fair, the band Son de Aqui will begin playing at 9 
p.m. so that students can salsa dance. The Student Union Board (SUB) organized and paid for this part of Culture Fest. 
"Anyone can go. You don't have to know how to salsa dance," said Anne Lim, SUB's cultural arts programmer and organizer of the salsa dance. She added that some students at the dance will know how to salsa and will be willing to teach those who do not know. 
According to Lim, in addi­tion to being fun, the salsa dance will expose students to a different culture. 
"Going to the dance is a fun way for people to hear music they haven't heard before," she said. 
Admission is free to both parts of Culture Fest. 
Contact Erin LaRuffa at laruffa. l@nd.edu. 




MD AFTER FIVE 


ThursdaLJ, Mov.15 
6:00 
p.m. -8:00 p.m. Exhibit: "Celebrating Internships, Creativity and Service, Con­course, Hesburgh Library 

6:00 
p.m. -Midnight College Bowl, First Round Tournament, LaFortune Notre Dame Room 


6:30 p.m. -11 :00 p.m. Culture Fest 2001 with Native American Dancing, LaFortune Student Center Ballroom 
7:00 
p.m. Film, Girlfight, Carey Auditorium, Hesburgh Library* 

7:00 
p.m. Men's Swimming & Diving vs. West Ontario, Rolfs Aquatic Center* 

7:00 
p.m. Lecture, "Holy Lands and the End of Conquest: The High Price of Nations Today", McKenna Hall 

7:00 
p.m. -9:00 p.m. Panel Discussion, "Refugees", Morrissey Hall 

7:00 
p.m. -9:00 p.m. Panel Discussion, "Fighting Terrorism", Keenan/Stanford Halls 

7:00 
p.m. -9:00 p.m. Panel Discussion, "Historical Roots of Anti-Americanism", Pasquerilla East Hall 

7:00 
p.m. -9:00 p.m. Panel Discussion, "Religious Dimensions of the Conflict", McGlinn Hall 

7:00 
p.m. Lecture, "Homosexuality at ND", Pangborn Hall 


7:30 p.m. "King Football,_ Notre Dame, and American Culture", lecture by Michael Oriard, DeBartolo 207 8:00 p.m. Play: "All the World's a Stage anc All the Men and Women Merely Players", MCOB Jordan Auditorium 
8:30 
p.m. -10:30 p.m. Drop In Lacrosse, Rolfs Sports Rec. Center 

8:30 
p.m. -Midnight ND Express Pool Room open, free billiards, LaFortune Student Center 


9:00 
p.m. Acoustic Cafe, LaFortune Student Center Huddle 

9:00 
p.m. -11 :00 p.m. Salsa dancing featuring Son De Aqui, LaFortune Student Center Ballroom 


9:15 p.m. Figure Skating Exhibition & Open Skate, Joyce Center Ice Rink* 
10:00 p.m. Movies: The Score and The Usual Suspects, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 

FridaLJ, Nov.16 
5:00 p.m. Men's Swimming & Diving vs. TCU, Rolfs Aquatic Center* 
6:30 p.m. Football Pep Rally, Joyce Center Arena 
7:00 
p.m. -10:00 p.m. Drop In Badminton, Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 

7:00 
p.m. -10:00 p.m. VVVFI Benefit Show featuring singer Aaron Katz with opener Danielle Skorich, LaFortune Student Center Ballroom* 


7:30 p.m. Movies: The Score and The Usual Suspects, DeBartolo 101/155 
8:00 p.m. -10:00 p.m. Pangborn Phox Phire, Holy Cross Hill 
8:00 
p.m. 807 Mass, Lounge, Coleman Morse Center 

8:00 
p.m. Hoop Dancer and Songwriter, Jackie Bird, South Dining Hall, Faculty Dining Room 


8:30 p.m. -Midnight ND Express Pool Room open, free billiards, LaFortune Student Center 
9:00 p.m. -1 :00 a.m. Playground Night, Rolff Sports Recreation Center 
10:00 p.m. Movies: The Score and The Usual Suspects, De Bartolo 1O1 /155* 
11 :00 p.m. Tournament Fridays, Bingo, LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame Room 

SaturdaLJ, Mov.17 
45 minutes after Football games ends: 
Mass, Stepan Center 
6:30 p.m. The Undertones in concert, Hammes ND Bookstore 
7:30 p.m. Movies: The Score and The Usua Suspects, DeBartolo 101/ 155* 
10:00 
p.m. -1:00 a.m Open Karaoke in the Huddle, LaFortune Student Center 

10:00 
p.m. Movies: The Score and The Usual Suspects, DeBartolo 101/155* This ad is published by the Student Activities 


Office. Programs subject to change with­out notice. 
* All programs are free to ND students unless marked by an *. 
FOR WORE IMFOR~ATl,OM, VISIT: W'ftw.nd.edu/~sao/ 

Thursday, November 15, 2001 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 


Profe~ors disco~ globalization Coroners 
continued from page I 
By MEGHAN MARTIN 
News Wricer 
In a setting reminiscent of Vietnam War-era teach-ins, a group of Notre Dame faculty joined with students and community 
members Wednesday to facilitate a panel discussion regarding civil and human rights in 


the wake Meintjes 
of recent global events. 
Meeting in the social space of Pasquerilla Hall East, the conversation served as a con­tinuation of the campus-wide "Week of Peace and War Education" that has become a major part of the University's most recent set of responses to September's terrorist attacks. 
Serving as panel coordina­tor, associate director of the Center for Civil and Human Rights and the Kellogg Institute Garth Meintj es turned his personal expertise in the areas of international criminal and human rights law to the topic at hand. 
In his concurrent role as an associate professional spe­cialist serving the Notre Dame School of Law. Meintjes specializes in the areas of justification and accountabili­ty in trial issues, training for­eign lawyers in the intricacies of strengthening a permanent international criminal court system. 
Joining Meintjes were his Law School colleague Jay Tidmarsh, specializing in domestic ~ivil rights and fed­eral courts; Mary Beckman, an economist and associate director of Academic Affairs and Hesearch at the Center for Social Concerns, focusing on the connection between terrorism and poverty; and Shannon Speed, visiting assis­tant professor of anthropolo­gy and fellow at the University's Institute for Latino Studies, with a special­ty in legal anthropology, glob­alization. and women's rights. 
The group's intent was a conversational approach to create an audience-guided question-and-answer session, in which both sides provided equally enthusiastic partic­ipation. 
Topics ranged from the issue of Wednesday's execu­tive order regarding the use of military tribunals in trying suspected terrorists to the establishment of international criminal courts to the effects of economic recession on the poorest sector of the popula­tion. 
The bulk of the conversa­tion, however, rested on the question of globalization and its staggering cause-and­
effect relationship to interna­tional terrorism. As Speed defined it, the concept of globalization encompasses not just relationships among nation-states, but rather there are other forces which can shape world events, such as market forces, networks, and non-national institutions. 
Meintjes focused on our need to address the problems of globalization rather than attempt to stop the institution itself. 
"Globalization is a reality; there is not a great deal we can do to stop it," said Meintjes. "We are stuck in a world where we make rules based on the state level." 
But Meintjes held that more than just states themselves play a role in the develop­me'nt of an international com­munity. "Our response should be one that builds global institutions," Meintjes said. 
Meintjes is currently work­ing on one such institution that strengthens the interna­tional criminal court. It would be used in cases where national courts break down, or fail to work, such as in the situations found both in the former Yugoslavia and post­war Rwanda. 
He likened the United States' current policies toward international justice to the history of South American dictators' military tribunals. He suggested that the implementation of a uni­versally-ratified system would allow the world to prepare for the inevitable disastrous side effects of globalization, side effects which are seen in the recent actions of terror­ists taking advantage of the globalization system. 
"They [the terrorists] used the freedom that globaliza­tion gives them to attack the United States," Meintjes said. "It is precisely these types of repercussions that interna­tional conversation would serve to prevent." 
Similarly, Beckman intro­duced another link between globalization and internation­al terrorism. In terms of eco­nomics, globalization "has to do with the spread and deep­ening of capital, and is all about money and goods going across foreign borders," she said. 
The institution sets the stage for an expansion of inequalities, fueling a system in which "the money is con­centrated in the hands of the few, which inevitably leads to inequality that breeds a cer­tain desperation in people that leads to terrorism." 
She emphasized Meintjes' previous statements regard­ing the necessity of "real global institutions" to foster a certain international under­
.. r ll9f~:it~~~ib:,~eri,ks·•·•················ 
••·?•··••• }:l-fettt~·ng19ma••••••·~g·~••••~pdls••••:•••·>••·••··•·•· 
•••.••.l?Y i;p1.~i.9fit~P~oto<1erro•••t,~ij~r@>•• ················••;Bbtb:Xinj••••for•·•Crow'·J·••Fe;t;•r:r()\NO.:Llrj~~····•·•·······•···•·•·•···········•·····. 

...... i 1\/liCroclermabrasioh 

· · ........ •.·•2·.••.. ···•.a·<.••.·•.•7•.·.•••••·•.••-•.·••.•8·t.•7•.• ·.·•··•·•··a•·•.).•7•.:.· ... •.•.< .Caler.. t1air•G~iri.....e1Jriit<·•······ ·....·.··•·••·•·.••·•·· ·····•·.. .. . . . . . . 25l5Bend 
. www.hairyein.cbrn< .. ··•··.·..·... <•·······. 
standing and cooperation under which globalization would be allowed to grow in a more far-reaching manner. 
Finally, Tidmarsh discussed the United States' efforts to trace the electronic transfer of money through banking systems. Under current con­ditions, the process is extremely limited, and international cooperation would be necessary for com­pletely successful fund-track­ing. 
Tidmarsh mentioned the "new powers that the govern­ment enjoys to garner infor~ mation in investigating proce­dures in institutions of higher education. There is no limit to what they can do with that information ... The fact of the matter is, when the govern­ment has that information, there is any number of things it can do with it." 
This brings up the issue of American civil rights and the current willingness of the American people to turn a blind eye to "what we are sacrificing on the homefront in terms of civil rights and civil liberties in order to ... deal with terrorism." 
The ·panel discussions con­cluded Wednesday, but the Week of Peace and War Education will continue through Sunday, culminating with a panel of students, fac­ulty and administration offi­cials discussing the topic of "What We Have Learned," a reaction to the weeklong pro­gram. 
Contact Meghan Martin at mmartin@nd.edu 
charge or other disciplinary action, the suit alleges. 
The suit claims the release of the test results maligned the child's memory and damaged the family's reputation based on the limited ways a child could contract·the illness. 
"The DeStefano family has struggled, and continues to suf­fer, not only with Vincent's untimely death but also with the knowledge that his memory has been subjected to false rumors of AIDS," Devetski's statement said. "It is the intent of the Destefano family. through this lawsuit, to see that no other family faced with the loss of a loved one is forced to endure the pain and humiliation caused by false rumors started by the county coroner's oflice." 
Michael DeStefano, a local physician, suffered the potential for lost earnings. 
The suit maintains that Hurley was negligent and "violated his duty" by failing to establish poli­cies that would prevent Rakow's leaking the information. 
The county coroner post is an elected position. Hurley was most recently elected in 2000 and appointed Rakow to the deputy coroner post. 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley.l@nd.edu 


caa 259-iooo for more details 

Cold Weather Experts 
5minutes from Campus 

Call 259-1000 for more details 
--·~ . 




ATION 
Thursday, November 15, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 

U.N. approves Afghanistan mea• sure: The U.N. Security Council unanimously approv0d a r0solution endorsing cfTorLc; to help fill a political vacuum in Afghanistan and pro­vide security for the vast areas of the country captured by anti-Taliban forces. The resolution makes no explicit reference to a multinational force, but U.S. Ambassador John Negroponte said it provides enough authority for coalition troops already in Afghanistan to help maintain law and order in the capital, Kabul, and areas vacated by the fleeing Taliban forces. 
WTO to launch new trade talks: 
Delegates at the World Trade Organization conference formally agreed on starting a new round of negotiations to further lower barri­ers to trade. It will be a years-long process aimed primarily at reducing tariffs on goods and services as well as opening markets and setting trade rules for rich and poor countries alike. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

N.C. sheriff criticized for card: 
A sheriff known for dressing his de.puties in berets and jackboots is being criticized for a holiday card showing him holding Osama bin Laden's severed head under the greeting: "Happy Ramadan!!" Sheriff Gerald K. Hege said the card is simply a reflection of the times. "You've got the president asking for him dead or alive," said Hege, a Vietnam vet­eran whose office resembles a bunker. Some Muslims said they were insulted by the refer­ence to the Islamic holy month of Ramadan, which begins this weekend. 
Calif. faces revenue decline: 
California's state government faces its steep­est revenue decline since World War II, according to a report released Wednesday. The legislative report forecasts a $12.4 billion shortfall -or 15 percent -during this bud­get year and next. Shortages could linger until 2007. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 

NBC spotlights smoke.free stations: An Indianapolis Fire Department captain who wants to quit smoking is hoping a national television appearance can help him kick the habit. Don Brunson will appear on NBC's "Today Show" Thursday, shot live from Station 14, as all 26 stations in the city go smoke-free for the 25th anniversary of the American Cancer Society's Great American Smokeout.Brunson. a marathon runner who smokes about 10 cigarettes a day. said he hopes the notoriety of national attention ­plus the chance to visit with a behavioral spe­cialist -will make this. attempt his last. 
Market Watch November 14 
Dow 

9,823.61 +72.66 
Jones 


CompositeSame: 

Volume:
235 

1,414,633,984 
AMEX: 818.60 -10.89 NASDAQ: 1,903.19 +11.08 NYSE: 579.48 +l.17 S&P 500: 1,141.21 +2.12 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ-100 INDEX (QQQ) +0.71 +0. 28 39. 54 INTEL CORP (INTC) +4. 23 +1.2731.32 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)+l.58 +0.3119.89 COMPAQ COMPUTER(CPQtl3.64 +1.2010.00 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +2. 75 +0.. 40 14. 92 
Fla. judge charged with violations 
sanctions to the state Supreme ences is known among attorneys as
Associated Pcess 

Court on the charges, which date the "woodshed" for Schapiro's ver­
FT.LAUDERDALE back to 1996. bal attacks, which sometimes 
A judge violated ethical standards Schapiro had two weeks to include profanity, the complaint by belittling people in his court­respond. David Bogenschutz, an said. · room, sometimes using a prop that attorney for the judge, said on In one case, a prosecutor told the sounds like a flushing toilet to show Wednesday that the complaint, judge that the victim's mother his displeasure, state investigators filed last week. was "a little unusu-wanted to speak at a hearing for a charged. a.1" man charged with killing her son 
The complaint from the Judicial "It really deals more with person­after running him over with a Qualifications Commission said alities than it does with the judge's motorcycle. Circuit Judge Sheldon M. Schapiro competence to become and contin­According to commission staff, has also asked attorneys, "Are you ue to be a judge," he said. the judge's reaction was: "What do stupid?" and told one, "Why do I The toilet-flushing machine was I need to hear from the mother of a always have to treat you like a used once as a defense attorney dead kid for? All she will tell me is school child?" argued a rape case. to keep the guy in custody and 
The commission can recommend An area used for private confer-never let him out." 

Associated Press 

U.S. warplanes have shifted their focus for the moment from hitting Taliban targets to trying to distinguish between civilitm and military con­voys on the move across Afghanistan's fluid front lines. 
"Right now, we're in a period of flux," said Capt. Richard O'Hanlon, the USS Theodore Roosevelt commanding officer. "We're doing a lot of reconnaissance. There's a lot of sensors being used throughout the theater, JSTARS and other things, that are trying to track the ground traffic." 
JSTARS, or Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System, is used to detect enemy movements and pass the information to pilots and ground troops so they can hit the enemy with precision. 
Despite the advances of the anti-Taliban opposi­tion in northern Afghanistan and on the capital Kabul, O'Hanlon said a significant cave net­work still provided U.S. aircraft with valid military targets. 
"The battle lines are very confused right now, so I don't think there is a tremendous amount of weapons being dropped on the moving convoys," O'Hanlon said. 
"There is still a signifi­cant cave network out there, there are still stashes of the al-Qaida network that exist in those caves, and there are still tremendous amounts of valid military targets out there, stationary targets that we can go after," he said. 
Rear Adm. Mark Fitzgerald, the Roosevelt battle group commander, said the pilots were avoid­ing hitting friendly forces or causing collateral dam­age. 
"Now we're just sup­porting those forces on the ground as they need to be supported, where pockets of resistance exist or where we're able to pin down the Taliban or al­Qaida forces. Our target is still on al-Qaida and the Taliban leadership," he said. 
A Marine F/A-18C Hornet pilot, who identi­fied himself orily by his call-sign Psi, said that, in many instances in the last couple of days, aircraft were bringing the ordi­nance hack because of collateral damage consid­eration. 
"The target assignments are few and far between because of the risk of col­lateral damage," said the 27-year-old from Boston, Mass. "They are wither­ing." 
Hight now, the priority was to gather information on where the Taliban and al~Qaida forces and their leadership were moving to, O'Hanlon said. 
The 5,500-member crew of the Roosevelt, out at sea for 56 days with only one day of rest. received a little morale boost Wednesday from members of the New York Yankees and Mets, who signed and sent their respective team flags. 
The flags were hoisted for the day over the carri­er's flight deck. 
page 6 Thursday, November 15, 200 l
The Observer . NEWS 

Red Cross reverses decision
INS will be 
. All Liberty Fund donations will 
restructured 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Attorney General John Ashcroft announced a major restructuring of the Immigration and Naturalization Service on Wednesday and said it would help fight terrorism and speed up service. 
The plan seeks to 
Under the plan, a new Bureau of Immigration Enforcement will oversee issues involving intelligence, investigations and illegal aliens. The new Bureau of Immigration Services will process applications for natu­ralization, asylum, work per­mits and residency green card renewals and deal with other immigrant benefits questions. 
Regional 
and district 
tors, he said. 
" T h e restructuring of the immigra­tion institutions we undertake today will make the INS a bet­ter service to our friends and a greater obstacle to our enemy," Ashcroft said. 
The change fulfills a cam­paign pledge by President Bush to try to reduce long waits endured by people who apply for benefits such as nat­uralization or permanent res­idence. 
It also seeks to address defi­ciencies in how the INS tracks foreigners who enter the country. Fifteen of the 19 hijackers in the Sept. 11 ter­rorist attacks entered the United States legally. 
Ashcroft said the attacks have added a new urgency to restructuring, which some in Congress have been pushing for years. 
"The terrorist attacks of Sept. 11 underscore in the most painful way for Americans that we need bet­ter control over individuals coming to our country from other nations," Ashcroft said. 
tions, the Border Patrol, intel­
Bernadine Healy resigned, part­ly because of criticism of the fund that she had set up. 
Red Cross officials also announced that grants for fami­lies of the thousands of victims will be extended to a year from three months. Such grants are used to pay bills and living expenses. 
New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer had been prepared to sue the Red Cross over its use of the funds but said he was sat­isfied with \Vednesday's announcement. 
"The credibility of the Red Cross had been on the line. They today have vindicated them­selves," Spitzer said. 
About $121 million has been distributed so far, and Red Cross officials said they are aiming to deliver approximately $150 mil­lion more by the end of this year. Decker said it could take years before all the money is spent because the Red Cross wants to meet the victims' long­range and short-term needs. 
About 2,600 families of people who died in the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon and the crash of a hijacked airliner in Pennsylvania have received an average of $15,000 each. Roughly 22,000 other families whose homes were damaged in the attacks or who lost jobs because their workplaces were damaged or destroyed also have received money. 
Elizabeth McLaughlin. whose husband Rob died in the destruction of the World Trade Center, said Wednesday that knowing her bills would be paid for the next year would enable her to remain in her Pelham, N.Y., "fixer-upper" home with her infant son. 

"It's where my closest memo­ries of him are," McLaughlin said of her husband. "This helps relieve so many anxieties for the families and allows us to plan our futures." 
McLaughlin testified tearfully at a congressional hearing last week about the bureaucratic maze she has encountered in securing aid. 
Rep. Jim Greenwood. H-Pa., who chaired the hearing in which Red Cross officials endured harsh criticism. praised the charity for "a first-rate response." 
Red Cross Chairman David McLaughlin, no relation to Elizabeth McLaughlin. said Wednesday it took "some time, somewhat longer than I think it probably should have, to address" the problems. 
"We do not always get it exactly right, but we are a transparent organization who will make changes when it serves the interests of the American public," McLaughlin said. 
To further allay misgivings, Red Cross officials said the Liberty Fund will be audited by the accounting firm KPMG. They said they also would provide the names of the roughly 25,000 families who have been helped so various relief organizations can share information about the delivery of aid. The charity had been resisting sharing such information. citing privacy prob­lems. That angered New York attorney general Spitzer. 
About 9 percent of the Liberty Fund will pay overhead and administrative costs for distrib­uting the money, compared to the average of 12-15 percent among all charities, according to the Red Cross. 
benefit victims 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The American Red Cross reversed course Wednesday and said all the more than half-bil­lion dollars in donations that poured into its Liberty Fund will go to people harmed by the Sept. 11 terror attacks. 
The turnabout is an effort to repair the battered image of one 
of the nation's largest charities. 
separate "The·restructuring ofthe directors 
The Red Cross had planned to
the two who now
immigration institutions 
set aside more than $200 million often-con­oversee both of the fund to deal with future
flicting INS we undertake today will service and 
attacks, upgrade its telecommu­missions of law enforce­
make the INS a better 
nications system, establish a
keeping out ment will be
service to our friends and 
blood reserve and do community
foreigners eliminated. 
outreach on anthrax and other matters. When that decision was 
who violate a greater obstacle to our A chief 
U.S. law information
enemies." 
made public, outraged criticsand help­officer will said people gave with the
ing legal ensure the 
assumption the money would go
John Ashcroft
immigrants agencies only for victims. 
and visi­Attorney General share infor­
mation. 
The plan 
replaces the 33 INS districts across the country with six service areas and nine enforcement areas. 
An office of juvenile affairs to handle problems related to immigrant children and an ombudsman to deal with grievances against the Border Patrol also will be created. 
INS Commissioner James Ziglar said unifying law enforcement into a single· chain of command is a critical part of the plan, which is to be completed by Sept. 30, 2003. 
"Before, we had these stovepipes, if you will, where our inspections. investiga­

The Liberty Fund has raised $534 million through millions of individual donations, a record for a charitable fund. The out­pouring was so overwhelming that officials stopped accepting contributions two weeks ago. 
Red Cross interim Chief Executive Officer Harold Decker apologized for what he called "a failure in communications between the American Red Cross and the American public." 
"Americans have spoken out loudly and clearly that they want our relief efforts directed at the people affected by the Sept. 11 tragedies," Decker said at a news conference. He took over late last month after 
ligence and other things had different chains of command," Ziglar said. 
Congress is considering its own plans for remaking the 

IE INS, including one that would abolish the agency and create two new agencies. Critics in Congress say they field more calls from constituents about problems involving the INS than other agency. 


);r' 1lfl/iiij1'l/lfllWI/!~: 
··••··t ....·•;A1,,ou-can~e,ji 
-. . .. ,_. :i ·.·.•

·.. :...···.··. .·:,: . >i.•D'<.. .. •A... · ·. ·\y·•··•·······.•·••N·••····••·•.•·.••1···•••.•·G·.•·.•.·.·: ·--:.·.. :::.. ..
(H.·.•.··.••·.·.U•<:••••.R··•··.•···JjS···•·: : .. · :-·-._ <<.•.•.•.•.·H·.·.••.•·•• ........T•.••.•.·•.·.•··•······· 
. . -­
. '·. . . . .. . ' . '' .· .. 
•. . .

I •. Buhi!t 
:*Pizza ':IJ f; 
$2 All YO•U· CAN EAT
*Pasta 

$6.50
>*Salad 


WINGS 
-

*Other Italian DiS~~li

... ,. ... 

Come kiCI< off our· firiaJ\.ffl.otne
Every Thursday at§./; .·.· 2610 Prairie Ave11ue 
football game weekend. 
288-3320 


. ·.-, ·.·. . .· ·-··-. .. 
-. . . . ' . ' . .
.···•·•··•·····.. •.•.. ..... ••.·.· .. .. •.w··.·.···.·•.··.•·.·.. · ... ·.·.3· .......•.•.s··.·.·.····
·e····· ··· ...•.• .. ·.·.··.·.l· .. 
. ::::,: .·.:-·_ : ·--,· ..< -. -.:·-. 
Thursday, November 15, 2001 

The Observer . NEWS page 7 
Heart patient suffers stroke 
. Artificial heart patient's condition listed as serious 
Associated Press 
LOUISVILLE, Ky 
The world's first self-con­
tained artificial heart patient 
suffered a stroke and is back 
on a ventilator, but doctors 
were confident Wednesday he 
would recover from the set­
back. 
Robert Tools, 59, had the stroke Sunday at Jewish Hospital, said Dr. Laman Gray, one of the surgeons who implanted the plastic-and-tita­nium AbiorCor heart on July 2. 
Dr. Robert Dowling, Tools' other surgeon, characterized the patient's condition as seri­ous. 
"His condition is slightly bet­ter than someone with a heart because we don't have to worry about the heart," Gray said. 
Last week, Tools was feeling well enough for an outing with the Louisville mayor to pro­mote dining out. Doctors said Tools' excursions had nothing to do with the stroke. 
Buoyed by his progress, doc­tors had said it was possible he could be home for Christmas. Now those plans have been put on hold. 
"It's just going to take a long time, maybe several weeks, for us to see a recovery," Gray said. "I will stress to you that everybody remains optimistic that he will recover, and that he will come out of this." 
Gray said he believed the stroke was caused by a blood clot. Initially, Tools couldn't move his arms or legs, but he was ab le to move his legs Tuesday night and open his eyes, Gray said. 
Doctors had said early on that strokes were among the risks for the artificial heart patients. The AbioCor was designed with a smooth plastic lining to decrease the chance of blood clots forming. 
Before receiving the artifi­cial heart, Tools was suffering from congestiv·e heart failure, diabetes and kidney disease. He was given little chance of surviving 30 days without the operation. Four others have received the AbiorCor since Tools. 
The temperature of the sec­ond patient, Tom Christerson, recently rose to 107 degrees. He has improved since and suffered no neurological dam­age, Gray said Wednesday. 
Christerson, 70, is able to sit in a chair but remains on a ventilator. doctors said. He underwent surgery Sept. 13 in Louisville. 
In Philadelphia, the most recent person to have the surgery is breathing better, though still on a ventilator, and is doing light exercise in his hospital bed, his surgeon said \-Vednesday. The patient's name has not been released; he had the surgery Nov. 5. 
The  device  is  made  by  
Abiomed  Inc.  of  Danvers,  
Mass.  


U.S. still chasing bin Laden 
ture.
Associated Press 

A Taliban official said Wednesday that Omar and his WASHINGTON "guest" bin Laden were "safe 
The United States is pursuing and well." Omar claimed in a Osama bin Laden and Taliban radio address Tuesday that he leader Mullah Mohammed was in the Taliban's southern Omar, believed to be on the stronghold of Kandahar, the move in the shrinking but still site Wednesday of sporadic difficult parts of Afghanistan fighting between Taliban and that their forces control. rebel Pashtun leaders. 
Sharpening the focus on the The United States is bombing 
war's prim_ary  areas  in  
targets,  the  south  
American spe­cial operations troops are questioning  "It may very well be that money will talk at some point."  and in the east, espe­cially around  
Taliban defec­ Jalalabad,  
tors and pris-· oners, dan­gling millions  Donald Rumsfeld Defense Secretary  where bin Laden is known to  

in reward money and hoping for a communications slip-up. Warplanes focus more bombing on mountain hide-outs and caves where Omar or bin Laden might try to disappear. 
.. The two men, both expert in guerrilla warfare, have plenty of those remote caves and mountain tunnels -and ellough friends and supplies along the Pakistani border -to make the chase difficult. "We still have a ways to go" in tracking them, Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld cautioned Wednesday. U.S. intelligence officials believe bin Laden and Omar are still in the region of Afghanistan not under northern alliance control, said a U.S. offi­cial who spoke on oondition of anonymity. Each is moving around, but they aren't believed to be together. It isn't thought likely that bin Laden will try to leave the country, because such move­ments could expose him to cap-
Saint Ma~s College 
O

NOTRE DAME INDIANA 
Tho Nation's Premier Catholic Women's College 
29TH ANNUAL 

EUROPEAN . SUMMER STUDY PROGRAM 
M:AY 22 -JUNE -19, 2002 

Courses offered in History, Education, Music, Culture and International Business. 
For further information contact: 
Professor David Stefancic 54 Madeleva Hall, Room 347 Saint Mary's College Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 284-4462 e-mail: dstefanc@saintrnarys.edu Fax: European Summer Study Program (219) 284-4866 
have hide­
o u t s . 
"Bunker­buster" bombs can dig under the surface and explode in a tunnel. Fuel-air explosives can produce tremendous heat and suck out a cave or tunnel's oxy­gen . 
Defectors and prisoners are probably the best hope for information on where bin Laden is now, said a former senior U.S. intelligence official with experience in South Asia. Even rumors or hints -about something such as a recent sup­ply run to a cave, for example -could prove a breakthrough. 
In addition, "It may very well be that money will talk at some point," Rumsfeld said, referring to the millions in reward money. the United States has offered. 
Or, Taliban troops and com­manders on the run might take fewer precautions with radios and phones, allowing U.S. eavesdropping aircraft to pick up communications and thus get hints to bin Laden's loca­tion. 

Cold Weather Experts 
5minutes from Campus 
Call 259-1000 for more details 

. 
PIZZA COMPANY® 
plzzadoneright. 

U.S. special forces also have · been watching roads in south­
ern Afghanistan to see who 
passes by, Rumsfeld said, and 
"to stop people that they think 
ought to be stopped." 
Bin Laden is believed to move 
from cave to cave -some a 
three days' walk into the moun­
tains -with only a group of 
highly trusted aides. 
The amount ofsupport he can 
still muster among thousands of 
past supporters is key. 
The Taliban may fracture, with some commanders decid­ing to become guerrilla fighters in mountainous southern Afghanistan, and others making peace with the Pashtun leaders now taking power, said another 
U.S. official. 
Afghan fighters have a history 
of retreating from cities but 
then waging effective guerrilla 
warfare in mountains for years 
afterward, essentially thwarting 
an enemy's larger goals. said 
Charles Fairbanks, a central 
Asia expert at Johns Hopkins 
University. · 
"Particularly if they fled to the 
east, that's a very difficult situa­
tion," Fairbanks said. "They 
have so many sympathizers in 
Pakistan, and Pakistan really 
has no control of the situation 
there." 
Such supporters could keep 
bin Laden and Omar supplied 
with food, guns and hiding 
places, said Andrew Hess, an 
expert on Pakistan and 
Afghanistan at Tufts University. 
In addition, the former guer­
rilla leader who took control of 
Jalalabad from the Taliban, 
Mullah Yunus Khalis, has long­
standing ties with bin Laden's 
Arab followers. Bin Laden is 
believed to have camps in the 
mountains near there. 
Most U.S. officials and outside 
experts d_o not think Omar 
would ever give bin Laden up, 
despite what Humsfeld called 
signs of strain between the two. 
In his most recent interview, bin Laden said he was "ready to die." Chillingly, he predicted the war against America would continue even if he were gone. 
Molti Bene 
( ·11111lino's Trattoria Downtown South Bend 

BestPizza East of Anywherel 
Monday-TuesdaySu11er Deal! 
Large 1 Topping Pizza & Order of Breadsticks w/ Sauce 
7.99! 
(Monday & Tuesday Only) 
271-1277 
SR 23 at Ironwood (Next to Subway) 

page 8 Thursday, November 15, 2001 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Thursday, November 14, 2001 

The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Jailed aid workers said to be freed 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Eight foreign aid \Vorkers held by the Taliban militia since last August for preaching Christianity were freed Wednesday and were headed to Pakistan, a U.S. official said. Two of the eight are Americans.. 
A second U.S. ofTicial, speak­ing on condition of anonymity, said they were freed as a result of military action, but would give no details. 
The disclosure came after the son of Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi said he was confident the eight would be released soon. 
Seif el-Islam Gadhafi, chair­man of the Gadhafi Foundation for Charitable Organizations, told The Associated Press that his non-governmental organiza­tion has been in touch with the Taliban for about two 'months in efforts to win their freedom. 
"[ believe that the Taliban will release these people in the near future," he said in a statement to the AP made through Libya's consulate in Vienna. 
In Washington, State Department spoeksman Richard Boucher said he hopes the reports are true but could not confirm them. He said U.S. offi­cials had received no word from the Taliban as to the where­abouts of the Americans or on whether they will be released. 
Although the United States accuses Libya of sponsoring ter­rorism. and recently extended sanctions against foreign com­panies suspected of doing busi­ness with the North African nation, Washington suspended 
sanctions against Libya itself in 
1999. 
The suspension came after 
Libya handed over two officials 
for trial on charges of planting 
the bomb that downed Pan Am 
Flight 103 over Lockerbie, 
Scotland, in 1988. The attack 
killed 270 people, including 179 
Americans. 
The eight workers -four Germans, two Americans and two Australians -are employ­ees of the Germany-based Christian organization Shelter Now International. They have been held since Aug. 3 on charges of trying to convert Muslims, a serious offense in Islamic Afghanistan. 
Taliban Supreme Court judges had indefinitely postponed their trial, saying they feared anger at the United States over the airstrikes could hamper their ability to make a fair ruling in the case. 
On Tuesday, the eight were moved from their cells in a detention center in the Afghan capital. Kabul, and were taken to the south by retreating Taliban forces. 
Jimmy Seibert, senior pastor at the Texas church attended by the two Americans, Heather Mercer and Dayna Curry, said he had not received word on when the women would be released. 
"Our hope is that they will be released in the next couple of days," Seibert said Wednesday at a news conference at Antioch Community Church in Waco, Texas. 
Gadhafi's son said his founda­tion made contact with the Taliban ..with the aim of finding a solution for these people." 

EGYPT 
Men sentenced for gay sex 
Associated Press 
CAIRO 
Egyptian men wept and screamed inside a crammed .courtroom cage Wednesday as a judge sentenced 23 of them to jail terms of one to five years for gay sex in a trial denounced by human rights groups as persecution 
of homosexu­als. 
Another 29 men were acquitted, prompting cries of joy from relatives 
who  had  
denied  the  
charges  and  
accused  the  

Egyptian media during the four­month trial of sensationalism 
fashioned from handker­chiefs. 
The presiding judge, Mohammed Abdel Karim, read his verdicts and sen­tences quickly. ignoring the defendants' shouts and chants from some relatives. 
"We will appeal to God! He is our defender!" several rela­tives shouted. 
When news of the sentences 

"Those cpnvicted have either admitted (to homosexual activities) or someone testified against them. Without testimonies, there was no sentence." 
Fawzi el-Hagan defense attorney 
and destroying the young men's reputations. 
Only a few people were allowed into the courtroom to hear the verdicts, and out­side, police wielding sticks drove back a crowd of about 200 relatives, lawyers, jour­nalists and passers-by. 
Crammed into a courtroom cage, the 5 2 defendants in white prison uniforms wept and screamed as the presid­ing judge read out the sen­tences. Most of them could not hear what sentence they received. 
One defendant kissed the Quran. Islam's holy book; another screamed at a news cameraman. Most covered their faces, some with masks came in bits and pieces from peo­ple leav­ing the court, one elderly woman joyfully distrib­u t e d sweets and soft drinks. saying she had heard 
her son was among those acquitted. 
Another mother, upon hear­ing that her son had been convicted and sentenced to two years, wept and said. "By God, my son has nothing to do with this. He is straight." 
The men were put_on trial after police raided a Nile boat restaurant in May and accused them of taking part in a gay sex party. 
Homosexuality is not explic­itly referred to in the Egyptian legal system, but a wide range of laws covering obscenity, prostitution and public morality are punish­able by jail terms. 
"Those convicted have either admitted (to homosex­

ual activities) or someone tes­
tified against them. Without 
testimonies, there was no 
sentence," Fawzi el-Hagan. a 
lawyer representing a num­
ber of defendants, said. 
Medical tests were also 
used as evidence against a 
number of defendants. 
Sherif Farahat, believed to have been the group's leader. received the longest sentence -five years of hard labor for debauchery, contempt of reli­gion, falsely interpreting the Quran and exploiting Islam to promote deviant ideas. 
Mahmoud Ahmed Allam 
received three years on the 
religious charges, but was 
acquitted of debauchery. 
Twenty others were sen­tenced to two years and one man was sentenced to one year for debauchery. 
Scott Long, a director at the New York-based International Gay and Lesbian Human Rights Commission, watched as the accused were escorted out of the courtroom. "They were terrified, they were ter­rorized, they were trying to hide their faces," he said. 
Local and international human rights groups criti­cized the trial. Amnesty International accused Egypt of persecuting people for their sexual orientation and said the type of court, the Emergency State Security Court, was not independent. 
Judge Abdel Karim told Associated Press Television News that the case was tried before his court because the defendants endangered "national security." 
Emergency state security courts verdicts can only be 

appealed to the president. 
Speaking on condition that he· not be named for fear of persecution, one gay Egyptian who had followed the trial said it was a fake. 
Among those arrested in the same case was a teen-ager who was tried separately and convicted and sentenced in September to three years' in prison. The boy is appealing the verdict in a juvenile court. 
The Keough Institute For Irish Studies 
presents: 


,:. l,BENEDICT ANDERSON 
' .. "';; 

j ;; ·· Author of Imagined Communities 
,, j ..,..,.""'"· 
\ \-Wllfl"~ 

'"',., \and Distinguished O'Donnell 1 Professor in Irish Studies 
Holy Lands and the End of Conquest: The High Price of Nations Today 
MCKENNA HALL 

7:00 PM Thursday, November 15, 2001 
'( 
p.ige 10 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursdav, November 15, 200 I 
' 

Ministrv 
Coleman-Morse Center • 631-7800 

dav 
807 Mass 
8:00 p.m. Lounge, Coleman-Morse Center 

RCIA Study Session 
10:00 a.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
International Students Tour of the Basilica 
2:00 p.m. 
Law School Mass 
5:00 p.m. 
Law School Chapel 
MBA Mass 
7:00 p.m.

.
.. Mendoza College of Business Chapel 

...........-av 
The Way Catholic B1ble Study 
8:30 p.m. 
331 Coleman-Morse Center 

PS 
Freshman Retreat #38 
(December 7.S, 2001) Monday, November 12 through Monday, December 3 114 Coleman-Morse Center 


¦ Presiders 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Saturday, November 17 Mass 
30 minutes after game 
Rev. Robert A. Dowd, c.s.c. 

45minutes after game (Stepan Center/ 
Rev. Thomas V. Bednar, c.s.c. 
Sunday, November 18 Mass 
8:00a.m. 
Rev. William A. Wack, c.s.c. 
10:00a.m. 

Rev. Edward A. Malloy, c.s.c. 
11:45a.m. 
Most Rev. John J. Kaising Bishop of the Archdioceses for the Military Services 
¦ Sunday'~ Scripture Readings 

1st Reading Mal 3: 19-20a 2nd Reading 2Thes 3: 7-12 Gospel Lk21:5-19 
Ancestor and Saint: 
East Meets West in Eucharistic Celebration 
¦ ChandraJ.Johnson 
Assistant to_ the President and Assistant Director ofCross-Cultural Ministry 
Drums beat, the gospel choir praised God and kente cloth draped the small altar in brilliant hues oforange, yellow and burgundy. Then, in African tradition, the speaker called on the wisdom ofthe ancestors to. nourish the congregation. Had the speaker calling on the ancestors not been Cardinal Roger M. Mahony, it would have been difficult to t~ll that this gathering was a Catholic one." (Lisa Richardson, Los Angeles Times, November 11, 200 I) 
This description of the Archdiocese of Los Angeles' Big Tent Revival in Watts is indicative of the spiritual emancipation ushered in by Vatican Council II over thirty years ago. A Catholic cardinal invoking African ancestors at the Eucharistic Celebration gives witness to the import of cultural expression in the Catholic liturgical rite. This indigenous African ritual enhances the liturgical expe­rience and recalls the cross-cultural influences ofthe early Church. For the African American Catho­lic, Invocation ofthe Ancestors (Invocation) is vital to our Catholic and cultural authenticity. 
The Invocation is ritualized at the monthly Rejoice.'African American Mass on campus. Its liturgi­cal counterpart is the Litany ofthe Saints which is sung at the Easter Vigil. As in the Litany, during the Invocation, names ofdeceased persons are chanted for the congregation to hear. In the Rejoice! Mass, 
water is poured to invoke collectively our ancestors from the 
north, south, west and East (Africa). 
"TO INVOKE AN ANCESTOR 
The Invocation is performed not only at the Mass,· but at
BRINGS HOPE AND PURPOSE 
very special events, particularly events where people ofAfr~­
TO THE LIVING AND OFFERS 
can descent are gathered to hear a common message. For 
THE BLESSED ASSURANCE instance, the Invocation preceded the lecture presented by 
THAT Goo·s SPIRIT Dr. Cornel West of Harvard University at our Dr. Martin 
Luther King, Jr. Celebration in January. It was also intoned
REMAINS WITH Goo·s 
at the baptismal font in the Basilica at the memorial service 
PEOPLE UNTIL THE END OF 
for Dr. Erskine Peters in 1998. However, it is during the 
TIME." 

Mass that the Invocation has a special commemorative sig­
nificance which unifies and blesses those gathered. 
Ancestor is a word which is seldom heard in Western main-· 
stream conversations. In face, to some, the word may em­body a foreign, primitive, almost pagan connotation as it relates to our relationship with the dead and the import of the Invocation in the liturgy. However, to invoke an ancestor brings hope and purpose to the living and offers the blessed assurance that God's spirit remains with God's people until the end of time. In the words of Priscilla Pope.,Levison and John R. Levison in their book, Jesus in Global Coutexts, "according to African traditional religion [Christianity is a~ indigenous African religion]• God's life exists in abundance among the ancestors; they are a reservoir that brims with the life force from which the living derive the resources of life's wholeness and goodness." 
Ancient biblical writers used the term ancestor throughout Hebrew scripture to delineate Israelite genealogy and fuse the past with the present to determine the future (Genesis 10:21, Joshua 17:1, Leviticus 26:45, etc.). The Judeo-Christian church, as it emerged in its earliest stages in northern Africa, viewed Jesus of Nazareth as the ancestral and supernatural link bridging this life to the next. The living Christ brought courage to martyrs (Sts. Perpetua and Felicity), wisdom co theologians (Tertullian, Origen, Sts. Cyprian and Augustine), perseverance to mothers (St. Monica), and conviction to popes (Sts. Victor I, Melchiades, and Gelasius I). These cross-cultural holy men and women dedicated their lives to the gospel ofJesus Christ and, over time helped to shape the teachings of the Catholic faith we practice today. Reviving the memories ofthese inspired patriarchs and matriarchs as ancestor in contemporary society provides hope and purpose to carry on. 
Vatican Council II and the Civil Rights Movement were simultaneous partners in the liberation of the soul. For pre-Vatican II, African American cradle Catholics like me, being authentically Catholic now encompasses being authentically cultural. Hallelujah! At Notre Dame, we celebrate the Africanity ofour campus community and the universal Church in the Invocation ritual. Whether in Watts or South Bend, liturgy unites us all as brothers and sisters. Whether ancestor or saint, East and West become one when we gather around the Table. Throughout November and. every day, let us reflect on the men and women who have crossed over and remain with us in spirit. They are saints ... they are ancestors whose memories we revive for wisdom and direction. Come and join us as we call chem by name at our next Rejoice! Mass on December 9 at 10:00 p.m. in Our Lady ofNotre Dame Chapel in the Coleman Morse Center. We are one in the Spirit! All are welcome! 

Thursday, November 14, 2001 page 11
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
Crash investigation continues 

,, 
. Investigators look at turbulence 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Investigators raised the possi­bility Wednesday that turbu­lence caused by ajumbojet con­tributed to the crash of American Flight 587, saying the two planes took off less than the standard two minutes apart. 
"We do not know whether this contributed in any way to the actual accident, but we are looking at this very closely," said Marion Blakey, chairwoman of the National Transportation Safety Board. 
"Wake turbulence" has blamed for deadly airline crash­es in the past. Investigators want to know whether it caused Flight 587 to break apart three minutes after takeoff from Kennedy Airport on Monday, killing all 260 people aboard and as many as five on the ground. The plane's tail assem­bly sheared away and its twin engines fell off as the jet went down. 
The standard mrn1mum amount of time between flights taking off is two minutes. However, Blakey said it appeared there were less than two minutes between the takeoff of Flight 587 and a Japan Air Lines jet that left ahead of it from the same runway. 
"We believe that in fact it was 1 minute and 45 seconds in terms of the actual distance," Blakey said. 
Blakey. at a news conference, also said that a flight data recorder recovered from the flight was repaired by the man­ufacturer, allowing investigators to extract data on the last min­utes of the doomed flight. The black box recorder had been scorched and banged up in the crash. 
Both of the plane's engines have been recovered and taken to a hangar at Kennedy. 
Authorities have not ruled out sabotage or other causes but have said all signs point to a mechanical failure. 
..That does not mean we have concluded there was no crime. We simply have no evidence to date of a crime of terrorism," Attorney General John Ashcroft said. 
The flight data recorder moni­tors nearly 200 separate func­tions in the European-made Airbus A300, including rudder movements. 
"We'll be looking very careful­ly at how the tail failed," the NTSB's George Black Jr. said. 
The tail fin was fished out of Jamaica Bay, a short distance from the crash site; the rudder was found nearby. The rudder, which is supported by the tail fin, controls the plane's turns from side to side. 
The 27-foot tail fin was ripped off the fuselage cleanly, as if it had been sliced by a knife. David Stempler, president of the Air Travelers Association, said he and several pilots he spoke to were struck by the sight. 
"It's as if you had a model of an airplane and you just snapped the stabilizer off," he said. "It's really shocking and surprising." 
Safety records show the same plane was severely shaken by air turbulence seven years ago in an episode that injured 47. 
• Loss of tail fin in flight is rare 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Investigators don't yet know why the tail fin and rudder broke off in flight just before American Airlines 587 crashed, but such a cat­astrophic loss has occurred just once before in commer­cial aviation history. 
On Aug. 12, 1985, a Japan Air Lines jumbo jet lost its vertical tail section on a flight from Tokyo to Osaka. The Boeing 747 f1ew in cir­cles for half an hour before crashing into a 7,000-foot mountain, its pilots still try­ing desperately to under­stand why they had lost con­trol. 
That crash killed 520 peo­ple, the worst single-aircraft mishap in commercial avia­tion. Four people survived. 
In Monday's crash, the American Airlines Airbus A300 took off from Kennedy International Airport and shortly afterward lost its ver­tical stabilizer and rudder. Without this two-part tail assembly, the jetliner would have suffered a loss of stabil­ity and turning control. 

The plane plunged into a Queens neighborhood, killing all 260 people on board and five people on the ground. 
Investigators said witnesses described a "wobble," and the cockpit voice recorder revealed "suggestions of a loss of control" 17 seconds before the plane crashed. 
Piece of the puzzle 
Not long after American Airlines 587 crashed in New York Monday, the Airbus A300's 27-foot tail fin was fished out of Jamaica Bay. Investigators are working to discover what role the tail and rudder's 
breakage played in the catastrophe. 
A carbon fiber skeleton strengthens the tail and anchors it to the fuselage. The tail is designed to flex from side to side, but whether lateral force could snap it off is unclear. 
A300 tail assembly 
The tail fin provides stability while the rudder controls the plane's left and right steering. 

Horizontal stabilizers control the plane's lift, working in concert with the rudder and banking mechanisms in the wings. 
A critical loss 

If the tail snapped off in a turn -when the force exerted on it is greatest -the aircraft would be critically imbalanced. At low altitude, the pilot would have almost no time to compensate. 
SOURCES: "Modem Commercial Aircraft·; Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University AP 
The 27-foot tail fin and the rudder have been pulled out of Jamaica Bay and taken to a nearby collection center for study. Both appeared intact with little or no visible dam­age. 
Most forces exerted on an aircraft are from front to rear. The tail fin is made of alu­minum or composite material. and is designed to flex from side to side, but whether it could be snapped off by a lat­eral force was unclear. 
National Transportation Safety Board experts said they did not know why the tail sec­tion was sheared cleanly away from the fuselage. 
"We'll be looking very care­fully at how the tail failed," NTSB investigator George Black Jr. said Wednesday. 
Besides the commercial acci­dents, the only other recorded cases of tail fin losses involved an Air Force B-52 bomber, a Boeing ES and a Convair 880 jetliner. all during test f1ights decades ago, according to Scott Haskin, an aircraft mainte­nance specialist and industry historian. 

In the 1985 Japan Air Lines crash, the aircraft suffered 
· ..massive decompression",,-a sudden loss of cabin pressure -when the dome-shaped pressure seal in the rear of the passenger compartment unex­pectedly collapsed. 
The explosive force 
-destroyed the aircraft's hydraulic lines that converged in the tail, and ripped away the vertical stabilizer and rudder. Unable to see the plane's rear, the cockpit crew did not know they had lost the tail. 
•

• 
University Resources 
•
•
•

• for Gay, Lesbian, & 
•
•

• 'Bisexual Students 
• 
: !!,,IT.111iiE111111S~T• ...
1 .. N,...o ,N..JG 
• COMMITTEE ON 
• 
GAY AND LESBIAN 

• 
STUDENT NEEDS


•
•
•

• The Standing Committee on Gay and 
•
•

• Lesbian Student Needs ••• (Confidential information, education, and resources) • 
• Contact: Sr. M.L. Gude,· CSC, 1-5550, orstudent members (see web site for student contact info.) 
•
•

• Office of Campus Ministry 
•

• ('•GLB Together"--confidential group meetings which
• 

include prayer and discussion. ofspiritual issues; annual retreat; library with relevant reading materials) 
•

• Contact: Fr. J. Steele, CSC, at Steele.3 l@nd.edu. or • Tami Schmitz at Schmitz.8@nd.edu • 
• University Counseling Center :
• 

(Individual counseling or a confidential support group) •
•

• Contact: Dr. Pat Utz at Utz. l@nd.edu, or Maureen !
•

• laffer(v at Lafferty.3@nd.edu ••
• 

For more information. check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/~scglsn' •
• 

. . . . . . . .... . ..... . . .............. . . . ...-....... . . 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 12 Thursday, November 15, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
AssT, MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Pat Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadrer SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvd Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0••...••.•.•.•.631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 AoVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AsST. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinc. l@nd.edu SPORTS...............................................'.........631-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu 
SCEN.E.........................................................631-4540 observer .scene. I@nd.edu 
SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc.l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updacetof campus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from che Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 

movies/music for 
minute forecasts 

weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 

online features for spe­
and rates of print ads 

cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 

about The Observer 
articles published after 

to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is noc governed by policies of the adminisrration ofeither inscitution. The Observer reserves rhe right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department edicors. Commentaries, letters ;;md columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners to the Editor must be signed and muse include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer po/icier rhou/.d be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefMike Connolly. 
/y~~ 
_.., 

.-r--....:..:::~~~:._ 
~·!,,_~_,-/ 
.-~_(!:;_~ 
, r • 
Consequences of war may prove unpredictable 
Tuesday's New York Times featured a three-picture sequence where Northern Alliance soldiers pull a wounded and unarmed Taliban soldier out of a ditch. He begs for his life, yet, against all international codes of conduct concern­ing treatment of unarmed prisoners, they shoot him. 
It is a grisly set of pictures. What the captions do not say, but the pictures show, is that they also pulled his pants down, indicating that there were other humiliations prior to his being shot. Some of the North Alliance sol­diers are clearly smiling during the episode. 
One in the background looks like he is running up to try to stop them. Much recent conversation, both within and out­side of Catholic circles and including an earlier column of my own, has been about the rules under which the war in Afghanistan must be fought. 
We set out criteria like legitimate authority, non-combatant immunity and proportionality. Yet such fine-tuned analysis can be deceptive in that it tends to convey that warfare is a much more controlled endeavor than it in fact is. 
When science speaks of controlled experiments, it is talking about replicable situations that have only one variable. Wars lack both of these characteristics. No two wars are ever the same and all wars have more variables than even the best minds can take into account. 
Sometimes the results are better than anticipated, such as the joy that many of the people in Afghanistan demonstrated when the Northern Alliance chased out 

the Taliban soldiers. A pharmacist com­
mented that "the whole city clapped and cheered when they retreated." 
Far too often, however. the conse­quences are more dire. more inhumane than thought would be the case. The Northern Alliance has press,ed on into Kabul, the capital. A new government has yet to be set up. 
There may well be more of the kind of atrocity that was displayed in the photos. The question is what to make of this lack of control and consequent brutality. There are two common responses. 
The first is the "War is Hell" doctrine adopted from. among others, General Sherman and his take-no-prisoners southward march during the Civil War. Here, the view is that the lack of full con­trol warrants jettisoning all efforts to limit one's conduct. 
What this view fails to acknowledge is the degree of control that its adherents practice in fighting war without limits. Sherman ordered all orchards burned, and his soldiers followed his orders. 
Another response is to move to the judgment that it is immoral to fight in all wars. There is a strong argument here. It is perhaps best articulated in John Howard Yoder's book, "\.Vhen War is Unjust: Being Honest in Just-War Thinking." 
In it Yoder argues that the just war tra­dition has expanded the norms of war­fare to accommodate increasingly destructive forms of fighting. 
His test-case is that of surrender: if a country or any other entity is serious about the just war norms, then in difficult circumstances it must be willing to sur­render rather than exceed the constraints that the norms place on warfighting. 
No appeal to supreme emergency can function to allow us to suspend or expand the rules of warfare. Otherwise war con­trols the just war tradition rather than the just war tradition controlling wars. 
There is the option, after reading Yoder, of vowing to redouble efforts at limiting the conduct of war. There needs to be extra care, however, not to allow this renewed vigor to suppress the initial point -regardless of our efforts, there will be aspects of any war that \.Vill not be under our control. 
There will be evenLo;;· that we may have initiated, but then take on a momentum of their own. Culpability in such circum­stances is difficult to assess. lt is hard and often impossible to sort out responsibility in situations that have innumerable vari­ables. 
The cases in which one is fully exoner­ated or fully culpable. l think are in the minority. I have read that there was a practice among medieval warfighters after returning from war of going to con­fession to attest to the fact that they may have had a part in, even unknowingly, some ghastly evil. 
The practice as more than an act of spiritually touching all of the bases to assure one's ascent into heaven after death. It was an acknowledgement that, like most of life but with more dire conse­quences, our acts even in just wars have effects that ripple out beyond the range of our immediate control. 
This is a good way of acknowledging, if war must be fought, that we are neither omniscient nor omnipotent. 
Todd David Whitmore is an associale professor oftheolog.lJ and the director of the program in Catholic social tradition. He can reached at whitmore.1@nd.edu. His column appears every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Students, do you have a professor this semester that deserves recognition? If you do, tell The Observer why your professor deserves to be Professor of the Semester. Send and e-mail with the professor's name, class they teach, time of class and a short description of why they deserve to be Professor of the Semester to scene@nd.edu. The Observer employees are not eligible to submit nominations. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 

Scott Scene 
Brodfuehrer Matt Nania Sheila Egts Graphics Meghanne Kristin Krouse 
Downes Production Sports Lauren Dasso Katie McVoy Lab Tech Viewpoint Angela Campos Teresa Fralish 
POLL QUESTION 

Is the economy causing you to rethink your post-graduation plans? 
Vote at NDToday.com by 5 p.m today. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"War should never be entered upon until every agency ofpeace has failed.,, 
William McKinely president 
1. 
n 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Thursday, November 14, 2001 page 13 
Death impossible to fully describe 
A year ago yesterday began the worst six weeks of my life, at least thus far. Within those six weeks, I lost a mentor, a grandfather and a friend to cancer, Alzheimer's and AIDS. Yesterday was the 
Marlayna
one year anniver­

sary of the first of Soenneker 
those deaths, the 
death of my high 

Here We Go
school drama 
Again
teacher, a woman 
we all called 
"Morn," who half 

mentored and half mothered me and 
most of my friends. 

For those of you not paying detailed attention to my column. I had a column first semester last year, but quit writ­ing at the semester for a number of reasons. One of those reasons was that the last column I turned in before break didn't run because it wasn't very good. I wrote it about three days after Mom's death, and in the face of that death, I simply had nothing to say. 
My parents were both disappointed that I was no longer writing. My dad has said approximately 9,000 times 
.that he wished I had kept writing 
because he wanted to know what I . 
would have said about those six weeks. 
It's been a year now, and I have a column again. It seems this would be the perfect moment for me to express myself on this topic of death, of pain, of losing those we love. The time, too, seems right -in a time when so many in New York, Washington, D.C. and cities across the country have lost loved ones, too. 
I have been thinking about this moment since I started my column again. What will I say when I finally write that column? What is there to say? I don't know. In the end, I'm stili not sure I have anything worth saying. 
I'm not sure what words of wisdom my parents thought I would produce. I'm not sure what they think I've learned. I'm not completely sure I've learned anything at all. But everything in my life is written down at some point, and I think it's time to write about those six weeks. So here goes, the wisdom I have learned from death. 
When your dad leaves you a message and gives you your home phone num­ber, it's probably not good news. You can't always go home when you need to. Death is not convenient. 
People die and in the end, the one thing you definitely learn from that is that they are dead. Death is real and it basically sucks. You also learn that people go on, that life goes on. It seems like the world should stop and it doesn't. That sort of offends you. 
People seem nicer when they are dead. They have fewer faults. The faults they do have are funny. While humor seems like it would be out of place in the face of death, I learned that it is usually, if not always, the best way to cope. I just feel sad. That's it. 
No one really wants to hear about It's somewhat akin to trying to death. I came back from Christmas describe how it feels to fall in love. If break with three people I loved dead you've been there, you know how it and had to answer many people's feels, and if you haven't no one can questions about how my break was. I describe it to you. In both cases the said it was fine. It· wasn't. feelings are strong and the only 
When we are deeply hurt we f,~ way you can honor them and never really get over it. We · • J the people you feel for is to move on, we live through , ,, ., v : ~ /. , try to talk about that it, and we become i' ..;,~,/ ,-;f /i. which cannot be stronger for it, but i · t9'_t:\ · / expressed. 
there is never a r./ff/2 .'<'.1/)'j>7/:fj//, -I'm sorry that I 
moment when we say, ·,' ~ · . . W(//lt½' don't have something "Well, that was bad, 1 / ;:. =-· ' //. · better to say, but but I'm over it now." ~ ~-::_ ; · · death does not lend Pain is pain for life. 
--· · itself to words. Life is never the 
~..,._, -~ ~---=::::::_=,_/:;z··-~-::::-+ What I've written same after someone 
-here is all I have. you love dies. Life is 
"'z-~~..;,.-;;;..-Today, as always, never the same after 
==~:r-;;:=:~;;:;~ my heart goes out 
your first love ends, ~·..,, to all those who or when your first pet .... · have lost loved ones. dies, or when you first _ May all know God's 
~ 
leave home. Life quiet consolation for changes constantly. We J their wordless loss. roll with the punches, but . .. -1~ we cannot help but mourn , _·.n Marlayna Soenneker is that which will never return ajunior psychology major. and those who will not come .___~ ~r_ Her column appears every back. other Thursday. She can be contact­
Forgetting isn't really an option, ed at msoennek@nd.edu. because love doesn't end with death. The views expressed in this column Some things you can't talk about. Some are those ofthe author and not neces­things there are just no words for. sarily those ofThe Observer. When I think of the whole experience, I don't think of the things I've said here. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Show support for truly democratic causes 
This is in response to Sean Quigley's Nov. 12 rupting the great resolve ofour nation." letter concerning his disapproval of the In other words, if you do not simply accept University-sponsored protest against the everything your government does, you're against Western Hemisphere Institute for Security the government and you're aiding the enemy. Cooperation, formerly known as the ., . What kind of reasoning is that? I bet School of Americas (SOA). ,··.1-'1/,.• _. · Stalin would be delighted to hear 
First of all, the facts that the ,,/ · . ' .·.:· your thoughts, Sean. And you still 
U.S. Armed Forc·es are current-.· ~ .,,.< .-7f/ .. dare to sa_y that you're in favor 
••• .. 

ly engaged in war and that 11 ~ , , · ,, ,/~:~./4:; ,1/,. of t~e First Amendment? many of its men and women If\ ,/'# -;.½:.; . Give me a break. are risking their lives for / , /1 ,, /47~1/.,.r.:~~ . .,_/' I firmly believe that one our sake do not make / / ,_,._: •.• _ , ~.-¾/· /// ,. .· / / 1 ,. 1 can stand proud for 
torture, execution, V · ..-.,¥1/,f -~: .::i(l . America, support the 
blackmailing and other ' , ·,-;.,. ,... · U. S. military and at sorts of human rights 1 •~~~ /.' f? r the same time protest abuses right. 1 ~~ ;;;;;~~ against the human 
The SOA trains ff:111MM~ rights violations every year many harbored by the Latin American sol-,,_-,v,, SOA. Blind nation­dicrs to perpetrate ~~~~ alism is just like 
such violations and ._,._. c=:-zu, willful ignorance, because of that and history tells us 
there is a need for it that it can be a to be shut down as 7??j-~~,z:,,;. very harmful thing. well as there is a So, yes, stand 
need for public aside with America 
_,~·Ill/ 

protest in favor of it ,,,,1.,.. , as a proud citizen, being shut down. support the ones 
Second. the protest who protect us, but is strictly against what ~ also do not be oblivi­it preaches to be against , ous. Be aware of your -the SOA. It is not a · constitutional rights and protest against the mili-do show your support for tary and it is not a protest those causes that are truly against the United States. 
democratic. 
Being oblivious to this clear difference is to fall into a very Mario Braz popuHst, non-democratic and deceit­sophomore ful line or reasoning: "If you're not com­Zahm Hall pletely for us, you're against us." Nov. 14, 2001 
Quigley indeed seems to agree with such rea­soning, as in his letter he states that "These pro­testers are providing the enemy with aid by dis-
Hearing students' 
•
voices 
As I was walking to class today, as usual. I picked up a copy of The Observer to peruse if the class got boring. I was appalled to find on the front page talk of a town hall meeting regarding tailgating and the University's policy, about which the student body was not notified. 
When anything occurs on this campus, students receive between one and five e-mails and voice mails regarding the topic and location. I know I received about that many regarding the ongoing peace week talks. 
However, for some reason, the administration found it unnecessary to let those who would be affected by policy change know that they could speak about it. 
vVhat were they afraid of-that they would be called into question for citing students who were of legal drink­ing age? That their hypocrisy would be called into ques­tion? That they would be criticized because parents were told that their son or daughter could not even attend their tailgate because they could be cited? 
I think the real issue is not that the University adminis­tration is trying to crack down on tailgating, but rather that they refuse to answer questions about their reasons and procedures. Even when a forum is opened to answer such questions, we find out about it in the next day's news. 
I propose this to those who planned the town meeting -plan another one. Allow the students to voice their opinion, whether it be before or after the last home foot­ball game. What happened this year happened, and the object of this meeting would be to ensure that it doesn't happen again. 
Kristin Hennessy 
Junior Breen-Phillip, Hall Nov. 14, 200 I 

,l 
f 
O
THE
BSERVER 


page 14 Thursday, November 15, 2001 
MOVIE COLUMN 

Mirror iIDages 
"Mulholland Drive," a confusing, disturbing, and seemingly point­less film, left me utterly bewildered. But I really liked it. David Lynch's latest does not follow a conventional plot -arguably there is no plot at all -and it fails to fully explain to its audience just what it is trying to do. Characters come in and out without explana­tion or significance, and more-than-halfway 
through a completely new situation is introduced. So what is in "Mulholland Drive" that deserves so much of my appreciation? How could I like a film of which I could not make heads or tails? 
The answer may completely depend upon point of view. Most Hollywood movies spoon-feed its audience a strong moral or an uplifting ending (sometimes both). In short, they tell you exactly what to feel and when. ultimately choosing your 

experience for you. 

Liam Dacey
However, some films are open-ended, aiming to actually give the viewer a shot at creating his own unique experience. These films convey emotions 
Scene Movie 
and ideas that are left up to the audience to ques­
tion. As is the case with life, there may not be an Critic 
overall moral at the end, and the significance of 
the experience will vary from person to person. 
Like other forms of art, a film is crafted to lure the viewer into not only its world, but also the depths of the viewer's existence. Conventional films steal things from life and glamorize or exagger­ate them into a concise and neat Hollywood format with an unam­biguous climax and ending. 
For example, "Pearl Harbor." Not only did the film depict the attack and its aftermath, but it also tossed in a parallel love affair plot with its own climax and ending, bringing more resolution to the event than there ever was in real life. 
Countless other films have followed the same format. In most cir­cumstances, they can pass off as mildly entertaining, but they nearly always fail to gtve the viewer anything more than recycled fictional material. 
The task of expressing real life on the silver screen, however, is a completely different venture. Instead of trying to manipulate the viewer into feeling a certain way. these types of films are more open, allowing for more interpretation and active participation. With no easy way out, audiences can discuss and ponder the film's meaning for themselves. 
But why would moviegoers want to see a film that does not give them an easy solution? We want to feel good, so why shouldn't we want a feel-good ending or a clear-cut one that brings things to a satisfying close? 
2000's "Requiem for a Dream," a vividly depicted and chilling tale of addiction, left whoever saw it disturbed and downright scared. There was no plot and certainly no resolution, but it felt real. And what is real is what scares us the most. "Requiem" is scarier than any Halloween horror flick because it feels real and plays on the emotions to an upsetting degree. What is the film trying to say? What's, the point of watching a nearly two-hour depiction of drug­induced hell? That is left up to viewers to decide and apply to their own lives, their own addictions. 
Manufactured, tidy endings throw away any chance for the viewer to apply the film's messages to their own life. And if the point of film, and all art. is to turn the gaze back on the observer, then films like "Mulholland Drive" and "Requiem for a Dream" represent art at its most potent. Just like a good novel, a good film forces you to question its significance. ln doing so you question your own life. When you leave a conventional Hollywood film, you may think to yourself, "Oh. that was good" or "It was entertaining." But when you leave a film reflecting real life you may not know what to say at all. The images stay with you and you begin to craft them to fit your surroundings. 
A particularly memorable scene in "Mulholland Dr.ive" takes place in a clandestine Spanish opera house. The symphony that is playing, the host says, is orily an illusion: "There is no band. And yet, we hear a band." lt is all recorded. Soon after, a woman sings with the orchestra, only to collapse on stage. The orchestra, and her voice, continues to play. 
The band and its symphony, of course. come to symbolize life, and this scene brings to mind a passage from Carson Mccullers "The Heart is a Lonely Hunter." He writes, "the whole world was this symphony, and there was not enough of her to listen." The singer who collapsed could not see through the illusion. and was therefore unable to find the truth. 
The illusion of this symphony parallels the illusion of film. Again, like other art, its purpose is to force the viewer to see a truth in life. As Pablo Picasso said, "Art is a Ii(} that makes the truth possible." Films like "Mulholland Drive" do not leave us with answers, they leave us with questions. We question the illusion of the film and attempt to seek the truth; all while the symphony plays on. 
Contact Liam Dacey at wdacey@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
MOVIE REVIEW 
The Farrelly brott 
By MARIO BIRD 
Scene Movie Critic 

Yes, it's true. The worst to be feared about the Farrelly Brothers' "Shallow Hal"-crass visual jokes, controversial banter and an overtly fresh Jack Black -is accurate. 
However, despite the lowbrow appearance of Black and the movie itself, both try to pawn themselves off as more than such, and the result is a strange film indeed. 
Anyone who has sat down in front of the TV over the past few weeks and seen one of the many "Shallow" commercials, knows the plot. In fact, the storyline is so predictable and for­mulaic that an Amish kid could guess the con­clusion of the film within the first five minutes. 
For those who don't watch TV or plow their fields with oxen, "Shallow Hal" follows the usual Farrellv Brothers pattern to a "T": Boy meets girl, b"oy gets girl. boy loses girl. and then an exciting finale, usually dovetailed into a race against time. 
ln this episode, "boy" is Hal (Jack Black), a young man who, despite his average looks, boogies his way through life in a continuous attempt to hook-up with supermodels. 
However. after a chance encounter with inspirational speaker Tony Robbins (playing himselO, Hal's perceptive mechanisms are somehow altered so that he sees the "inner beauty" of everyone he meets. 
This includes Rosemary (Gwyneth Paltrow). a young. 250-lb. woman with a sharp wit and a ravenous appetite. 
Hal. however, visualizes Rosemary as a lithe, slender blond (hence the casting of 

Gwyneth Paltrow co-stars with Jack Black's Hal in the Farrelly Brothers latest comedy, "Shallow Hal." 
Paltrow). ravenous appetite intact. 
Unfortunately, Hal's new­found abilitv does not alter his perception of his friend Maurecio (Jason Alexander). who continues to exist as George Costanza with less hair and a dirtier mouth. 
Things get dicey when Hal finds out that Rosemarv is the daughter of Steve Shanahan (Joe Viterelli), the club-wield­ing owner of the nondescript business firm Hal works for. 
Mr. Shanahan naturally assumes that the only reason an employee would be interest­ed in his daughter is for ambi­tious purposes. 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Mismatched dial! 
By JUDE SEYMOUR 
Scene Movie Cricic 
"Heist," the new movie writ• ten and directed by David Mamet, begins with a typical jewelry store robbery carried out by professional thieves: It is a timed event that relies on each thief understanding their smaller role within the greater heist. 
But then the characters start chatting, and the audience notices something a little amiss about the dialogue. 
David Mamet, whose writing style is more suited for a theatre 


O
THE 
BSERVER 
• 

Thursday, November 15, 2001 page 15 

1ers get 'Shallow' and shallower 
Confusion abounds as Hal tries to prove his genuine affection for Rosemary while at the same time advancing himself in the compa­ny ranks. 
Maurecio, who can't stand this new version of Hal. acts to reverse the process Robbins induced. and naturally drives the narrative to its exciting conclu­sion. 
The inconsistency throughout "Shallovv Hal" is that it contends that Hal is not the cad he appears to be. He was trauma­tized into having overly-external mores at an early age. 
The film begins with Hal's dying. medicated dad speaking his final words: "Son, hot young tail is what it's all about." 
If there's a prior Farrelly brothers movie that
A similar, though much more shocking, trauma­
"Shallow Hal" seems to imitate, it's "Dumb and
induced psychology excuses Maurecio from his 
Dumber." The dynamic between
bawdy. insensitive behavior. 
Black and Alexander recalls the
And while these machinations 
"Shallow Hal" relationship between Jim Carrey
are meant to evoke sympathy 
and Jeff Daniels. Hal and
for the uncouth protagonist and wih A~, ~ Maurecio spout off line after linehis sidekick, the result is a con­
out offive shamrocks of outrageously indecent stuff.
tradictory message, as if having At times the terminology is so 
some sort of defect allows one Director: Peter and Bobby Farrelly 
coarse and lewd that the theater 
to mock the defects of others. 
Starring: Jack Black, Gwyneth felt like a prep school locker
HO\vever inappropriate it may Paltrow and Jason Alexander room, considering who is laugh­
be, though, there can be no 
ing and what is being said.
doubt that Black plays the part 
One wonders if these familial directors trade
of the oblivious cad very well. Those who enjoyed 
jibes like this in real life, hoping to pop out a
his over-the-top role in "High Fidelity" should roll movie script. What a job.
in the aisles during the first half of this movie. Kudos also to Paltrow, who brings a bit of cre­
dence to a film almost entirely based on spectacle. Contact Mario Bird at mbird@nd.edu. 



ogue, dull plot corrupt 'Heist' 
play than a movie, composes accused of pigeonholing himself if est is that he lusts after Joe's count him.") abrupt and crisp sounding lines not for the understanding that wife, Fran (Rebecca Pidgeon), With .. Ocean's Eleven" that border on corny, but, if done this is the part he plays best. also a member ofthis little crew. looming on the horizon, and right, can sound sleek. The fasci­Joe is no exception. At all times, The group's intimacy is demon­"The Score" in the not-so­nation with the dialogue becomes his facial demeanor shows a man strated through their way of talk­distant past, "Heist's" story the movie's most viable attrac­who is angry but also calculating. ing, a mishmash of code and line comes at a bad time. At tion. as the plot is unimaginative The film makes the big point that shorthand that often leaves the this point, it's a tired formu­and recycled. Joe always has a back-up plan for audi-ence confused precisely la. On top of that, David 
In its most general terms, any situation that because it is not Mamet's usual perfection in "Heist" is about a gang of profes­may arise. Why is "Heist" supposed to make creating his own brand of sionals who are forced to take a this so surprising? sense to outsiders. theater has failed him. Some newcomer in for one last big Any person could Mamet balances of his actors lack a sense of score before they retire. The film come up with a this code talk with timing. others lack a sense
out offive shamrocks 
is only four months removed from backup plan (or a his clever one-lin­ofdelivery. the big screen debut of "The backup plan for the Director: David Mamet ers, which in past While this same sort of Score," a Robert De Niro and backup plan) for Starring: Gene Hackman, movies have gar­dialogue has worked well in Edward Norton flick with the the hackneyed situ­nered huge laughs, past Mamet efforts such as
Danny DeVito, Delroy 
same exact story. "Heist" does ations in this movie. but here they come "The Spanish Prisoner,"
Lindo and Rebecca Pigeon
11ot help itself by following the by-As the plot moves offas quite forced. "Glengarry Glen Ross" and the-numbers plot so forward, Joe is When Joe tells "State and Main," it misses strictly. unwillingly forced to adopt Jimmy his contractor, Bergman (Danny too much in "Heist" to war­
The gang's leader Silk (Sam Rockwell) into his gang DeVito), that he is not interested rant a recommendation. is Joe (Gene because he knows the details of in any more money. Bergman Hackman). an aging the job (Silk is basically the screams, "Everyone needs Reviewer's note: Kerasotes coct a fake disclaimer, show the thief who cannot Norton character from "The money! That's why they call it Theatres' Showplace 16 in South movie with two bad reels, and resist the tempta­Score"). Joe is uncomfortable money!" Perhaps there is some­Bend is currently showing "Heist" endure the complaints from view­tion of one last about adding another member thing laughable in the absurdity with two bad reels, claiming the ers who know better, or_ lose heist, even though because his group has worked of that statement; however, improper framing at certain "Heist's" weekend profits while he was "marked" together for so long that they can Maqiet's usually precise sense of points in the film is because ofthe they wait for new prints. Their by two security read each other perfectly, decod­pacing and delivery is noticeably director's "documentary" decision. while maybe made with cameras in the ing each other's sign language absent, so the laugh is lost. approach. Examining the reviews good business sense, should sad­film's opening rob­and body movements. Jimmy Although the film's dialogue is of well-respected movie critics. den filmgoers. If you wish to see bery sequence. does not help matters by being a not up to the usual standards of a there is no such mention ofinten­"Heist," it is recommended that 
This role -that hothead, and he instantly clashes Mamet film, there is still some­tionally incorrect framing or any you do not patronize Kerasotes at 
of a gruff, rough­with Joe's group, mixing it up thing gratifying about anticipating notation of a documentary style this time. 
and-tough guy -is with Bobby (Delray Lindo) and what sort of sleek chatter will employed by Mamet. One can 
one Hackman fre­disregarding the wisdom of Pinky come out of each character's only conclude that Kerasotes 
quents these days. (Ricky Jay). mouth (an example: "He's so cool, found themselves in a precarious Contact Jude Seymour at 
He could easily be Jimmy's other conflict of inter-when he goes to sleep, sheep situation: They could either con-seymour.7@nd.edu. 


Thursday, November 15, 2001 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
Clark 
continued from page 28 
think that's what a coach is ­being a teacher. I think that's the thing that's given me the most." 

By 1983, Clark found himself in Zimbabwe, serving as direc-, tor of coaching for the Bulawayo Highlanders of the Zimbabwe Super League. 
Then, in 1985, Clark was introduced to soccer at the col­legiate level. 
Clark was hired by Dartmouth College in 1985, and by 1988 he had produced a team of Ivy League Champions. 
By the time he left Dartmouth in 1993, Clark had produced two more Ivy League Champion squads, in 1990 and 1992 ­both of which advanced to the quarterfinals of the NCAA tour­nament. He earned the National Soccer Coaches Association of America (NSCAA) Region I Coach of the Year and New England Intercollegiate Soccer League Coach of the Year awards in 1992. 

Clark spent 1994 and 1995 as coach of the New Zealand National Team, and produced a 21-12-3 record for coaching the Senior, Olympic, Under-20 and Under-17 squads. Clark was also awarded the 1995 Jim McCullen trophy, an award pre­sented on behalf of the New Zealand media, given to the person who did the most for New Zealand soccer. · 
When Clark arrived at Stanford in 1996, he inherited a program reeling from two con­secutive 5-12 seasons and four consecutive losing seasons. 
In his first season in Palo Alto, Clark led the Cardinal to a 10-4•4 record, and was named the Mountain Pacific Sports Federation Mountain Division Coach of the Year. 
The following season would be considered the breakout year for Stanford's men's soc­cer program. The Cardinal 
I I ~ went on to a 13-5-2 record, and earned its first top-10 ranking in five years, its first trip to the NCAA tournament and the 
i 
MPSF Mountain Division title. "I don't think I was seriously 
In addition to another MPSF looking [for a new job], but I Coach of the Year award, Clark think the persistence of the ath­was also presented with the letic department to get me to NSCAA Far West Region Coach come over. I liked that," Clark of the Year. said. "I was very impressed 
The next three years at with the [Notre Dame} athletic Stanford for Clark can be clas­administration, as well as the sified as no less than outstand­campus-wide administration ing. that I met during that time." 
From 1998 to 2000, Clark's With Clark at the helm, the Cardinal squads produced two Irish had high expectations in 18-win seasons, three NCAA 2001 following a disappointing tournament appearances, 2000 season. including an NCAA runner-up Looking back now to the title in 1998, a Pacific-10 Coach beginning of the season, they of the Year Award in 2000 and had no idea how high they'd the highest ranking (No. 1, also climb. in 2000) for a Stanford soccer At the Irish season opener on squad. Sept. 1, a lot of things were still 
Clark attained huge success in the air as to the future of the at Stanford. So when Notre team. Would Clark produce Dame beckoned in Jan. 2001, here like he did at Stanford? Clark had a difficult choice to Could he turn around the make. wrong -way 
"Once Irish train? w e "{Clark} makes you want A lot of the. 
assessed mysteries were
to work hard. He
[after the solved that 
2000 sea­basically shows you how night, as the son] that good you really are . ., Irish offense 
we wanted exploded for a to make a 5-0 shutout 
Justin Ratcliffe
change, we against Big got on the defender East foe phone and Villanova. talked to At the everybody in the soccer com­Furman Invitational the next munity -coaches, both colle­weekend, the Notre Dame mea­giate and professional -just to sured itself up against two see what they were saying," nationally ranked squads from Phillips said. "We basically Furman and Clemson. While asked them to tell us who they the Irish left South Carolina thought were the top two or with two defeats, they proved three coaches in the country. I that they could compete with called all over the country to national powerhouses. educate myself and [athletic Before Notre Dame's match director} Dr. [Kevin] White on on September 25 against No. 21 who they were saying was the Bradley, Clark made a bold 
best coach in the country, and switch at goalie, replacing 
unconditionally or unequivocal­junior Greg Tait with freshman ly they all had Bobby Clark at Chris Sawyer. Stanford. But they would pref­After that move, the Irish ace it by saying, 'You'll never would only lose two of their get him to leave Stanford, final 11 regular season games 
because Stanford's ranked in -both of which came via the the top five in soccer and Notre shutout -and would finish the 
Dame is unranked, and there is season with an 11-5 overall a separation there between the record and a 7-3 record in the two programs.' But it became Big East. something that we pursued The Irish qualified for a No. 2 after calling Bobby and contact­seed in the Big East tourna­ing him, and getting him to ment -their highest seed ever come visit and take a look at in the Big East. The Irish the university. And we kind of returned to post.season confer­took it from there.'' ence play for the first time since it lost in the first round of the 1999 tournament against Rutgers. The seven conference wins marked the most for the Irish since joining the Big East conference in 1995, and Nov. 5, 2001 marked the first time the Irish were nationally ranked in both the NSCANadidas and Soccer America polls simulta­neously for the first time since 1996. 
And, barring a major cata­strophe or oversight, the Irish will make the NCAA tourna­ment for the first time since 1996. 
Clark had turned around the Notre Dame men's soccer pro­gram. In only one year. 
So what is his secret? What is it about him that makes him great? 
His players attribute his teams' success stories to his confidence, which is obviously backed up with results. 
"He's really experienced," Irish forward Erich Braun said. "The thing is -. he's been there. He played professionally in Europe, so he knows what he's talking about. He can give you advice, on and off the field. And I think that's most influen­tial on us." 
Clark attributes his motiva­tion to a matter of perspective. 
"We never look more than one game ahead at a time," Clark said. "That's as far as we go. We want to make ourselves as good as we can be, reaching our full potential. I always tell myself that success won't be far . behind if we do the right things on a daily basis, and that's my aim.every year.'' 
Clark's three decades of experience in the sport of soc­cer has led his teams to great success. And his experience leads to good things for his teams. 
"Coach Clark's confidence that he gives us, and his enthu­siasm for coaching [helped in the team's turnaround}," Irish defender Justin Ratcliffe said. "He makes you want to work hard. He basically shows you how good you really are." 
Contact Bryan Kronk at bkronk@nd.edu. 

Signing 
continued from page 28 
past two seasons," Brey said. "He is going to be a key player for us as a freshman." 
Also key for the Irish will be Francis. The senior from Roslindale, Mass. has led his Tabor Academy to two New England Prep school champi­onships after transferring from Boston Latin. The senior aver­ages 20 points and 10 rebounds a game. 
"At 6-10, Torin is a very skilled basketball player who can play different positions offensively," Brey said. "He's an extremely versatile athlete who plays both ends of the floor extremely well." 
Francis has made a mark for himself both on the court and in the classroom. He is vice­president of his senior class and is the sports editor of the school's newspaper. He also serves as a proctor. or resident assistant, in one of the campus dormitories. 
"To be quite honest, we thought he should come here," Brey said. "Notre Dame is a natural progression for his level of academics." 
Quinn, from Dublin, Ohio, also promises to be a good fit in the Notre Dame game plan. After leading his Coffman High School team to a 23-3 record last season, he was named the Ohio Capital Conference Central Division Player of the Year. Averaging just 18.9 points and 5. 8 rebounds a game, Quinn tops the charts as his school's all-time career scoring leader with 1,133 points. 
"Chris can play either one of the guard positions on the floor because he is such a solid play­er both on and off of the ball," Brey said. "He's a high school senior who has a tremendous feel for the game and who plays the game like a much older ball player." 
Contact Kerry Smith at k.smith2@nd.edu. 

BABYSITTER for 3 children: One 6· •••ACT NOW! GUARANTEE THE Notre Dame, IN 46556 Fellow tag•team member • yr-old, 2•yr-old twins. Flexible BEST SPRING BREAK PRICES! home: 219·284-4417 We are the best the sports depart• hours: 12-15 SOUTH PADRE, CANCUN, cell: 219-286•7545 ment has ever seen. We rock
FOR SALE TICKETS 
per week. Five minutes from NO JAMAICA, BAHAMAS, ACAPUL· work: 219·631 •4541 almost as much as your mom! 
Campus. 289·5763. CO, FLORIDA & MARDI GRAS. www.nd.edu/-observer FOR SALE 1994 Oldsmobile REPS NEEDED. TRAVEL FREE, Hey Writing Center • Cutlass Ciera, 86,000mi; fine cond., Female seeking hockey gear -2 Navy GAs for sale Call Kim 634· EARN $$$. GROUP DISCOUNT SPRING BREAK Cancun, Jamaica, I know you all missed me at the loaded, $3000 or pads, helmet.right-handed stick. 2541 FOR 6+. 800·838·8203/ S. Padre, & all Florida destinations. meeting yesterday, especially best offer. Call 634·2446. WWW.LEJSUAETOURS.COM BEST Megan and all the cool veteran 
ND tickets for sale. Lowest prices. Hotels, FREE parties, LOWEST tutors. Don't worry -I'll be there Call 1-5233. 232·0964. FOR SALE: 2 bdrm limestone prices! www.breakerstraveLcom next time! ranch, close to campus. 2-car (800) 985•6789 
FOR RENT
FOR SALE: 87 Honda Civic 4dr WANTED· ND TICKETS 289·9280. attached garage, Bad Horse For Life • auto NC stereo. Runs well, reliable. hardwood floors, finished base• ADOPTION IS LOVE Imagine your Sorry you couldn't make it into the $1000 obo. HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM• BUYING NAVY TIX SELLING PUA· ment, CIA. Call 219·233·9146. precious baby safe and happy in a inside column today. 233·0296. PUS mmmrentals.com email:mmm• DUE, STAN FORD TIX. A.M. 232· loving family, 
rentals@aol.com 2378 P.M. 288•2726 HOPING TO ADOPT We are a adored by 2 N_D Grad parents (a Nubby· 
---···························· Catholic, tun•loving, well educated full•lime mom and a lawyer dad) Kendall was saying inappropriate B & B 3 Miles ND Best Area 287• FOR SALE: 4 Purdue tkts. Call and financially and loving things about you yesterday. So you 4545 Gerry 4· 1994. secure married couple in Northern playmates in a beautiful home, We better turn that tu·tu around!
WANTED 

California. We are homestudy promise to give your child the life Student Wanted! Alum owned 2 approved and you dream A and A· story, 5 bdr, 2 bth w/ new carpet excited to share our love with a of for them. Medical, legal, counsel• My shower shoes walked into your 
PERSONAL
WANTED: SPRING BREAKERS! appL, sec, baby! You can learn more about us ing, court approved living expenses room today and wouldn't leave. Sun Coast Vacations wants to send roof & furnace, 3 lot yd, 1 blk N. of at pd. You'd better be careful, they may you on Spring Break Club 23 321·217-8451 SPRING BREAK Largest selection www.parentprofiles.com/profiles/db ConfidentiaL Please call our attar• attack you! 
to Cancun, the Bahamas, Jamaica, of Spring Break Destinations, 2288.html or call Adoption ney at (708) 922·4795. i I or Mazatlan FOR FREE! To find out Houses available for 3 to 6 stu• including Cruises! Connection toll• Mer• I how, call dents. Good area... ADT, washer• Rep Positions, Free Drinks and free at 1-800-972•9225 and ask Mary· Break a leg on Friday! We'll be I dryer•air. Dave Free trips available. about Chris and Mary. We promised and we deliver! Here cheering for you! ' ! 1-888•777-4642 or email: 340·0106 www EpicuRRean.com 1·800· it is -a classified just for you! • Your favorite Obesrverites. 
I 
sales@suncoastvacations.com 231-4·FUN HIT AND AUN. ND SWEAT BLAN• From KT and Lauren HOUSES FOR RENT 1) 9•br KET TAKEN FROM GOLF CART. Colin. Male roommate needed for upcom­$2400/month 2) 5-br $1500/month Spring Break with STS, Americas CASE OF MISTAKEN INTEGRITY. Kerry Smith is my personal hero. I I'm looking forward to Friday night. 
l , 
ing Spring semester. Turtle Creek, 3) 4-br $1000/month #1 Student Tour Operator. Promote really wish I could be more like hec The girls will all be gone.I 2 bedroom Call Bill at 532·1896. trips on Celebrate we will...'cause life is Oh, and I know she's going to invite • Merideth 
I 
apt., fully furnished. $405/mo, campus, earn cash and free trips. short but sweet for certain. us all over to her apartment on --.......•..........................
l 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM· Info/Reservations, 1-800-648·4849 Noreen Gillespie Friday so we have something to do! Weeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee! Contact Cory and Eric at 277·6560. PUS. tum. 272-6306 www.ststravel.com 1209 Annunciata Hall 
1 
1 Saint Mary's College -------···--··· ---······················--­
f 
' 
' 
i 
r '( I . 
CLASSIFIEDS 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at che Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexc-day classifieds is 3 p,m. Al classifieds must be prepaiJ. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
page 17

Thursday, November 15, 2001 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

I 
I 
I 
I I 
j 

Thursday, November 15, 2001 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS 
NFL 

Titans miss injured Neal 
Associated Press 

CINCINNATI 
Eddie George isn't running so well and the Tennessee Titans have a losing record halfway through a season that started with Super Bowl aspi­rations. 
Could it be that they miss Lorenzo Neal? 
Titans coach Jeff Fisher con­ceded Wednesday that the Titans (3-5) aren't the same 
·! without their blocking fullback clearing the way for George and keeping the locker room focused. · George has been slowed by leg injuries and has run for only 444 yards, a 2.8-yard average that's way below his norm. An offense that's accus­tomed to grinding it out 
"He does not accept any­Paul Brown
now relies on quarterback thing less than his best. Stadium, 
Neal said, "ISteve McNair. 
He's meant the world to 
didn't know
W h i I e ,, 
us. that he felt
Tennessee 

that way,teeters, the 
but I won't
Cincinnati 

Jon Kitna 
talk to him
Bengals (4-4) 

quarterback 
about it. No
are having their best sea­son in 11 years. Corey Dillon is on pace for 1,300 yards and Neal is getting credit for opening holes and for changing the attitude in the locker room. 
Fisher angered Neal last September by suggesting he sometimes blocked the wrong guy, but tried to smooth things out Wednesday when his remarks were brought up dur­ing a conference call. 
"You're going to have to look hard around the league to find somebody who's got more respect than I do for Lorenzo Neal," Fisher said. "I knew what he was going to do the day he walked into that locker room. No question, we miss him. I wish were able to work things out." 
The Titans released Neal last March to help them get under the salary cap. Neal hasn't forgotten Fisher's remarks about his blocking. 
"I don't think that you come after someone's character," Neal said Wednesday. "I think that's where he stepped out of bounds. That's what I took personally, when he said I was not going to block th~ right person." 
Asked whether he would look for Fisher when the 
teams play 
Sunday at 
need to." 

T h e Titans could use Neal right about now. They're coming off a 16-10 loss to Baltimore on Monday night, when McNair was stopped short of the goal line on the game's final play. 
The Titans' offense is rid­dled with injuries and George has yet to rush for 100 yards in a game. The lack of a block­ing fullback remains a prob­lem. 
The Titans brought William Floyd to training camp, then cut him. They got Wes Ours off waivers from Indianapolis. but he had back spasms Monday night and didn't get into the game. 
Neal won't take credit for George's last two Pro Bowl seasons in Tennessee. 
"He went over 1,000 yards before I was there," Neal said. "He's always been a great back. I think I just helped him out. We worked out together and would do some extra things. I think sometimes you miss those things and that extra push. He's going to be fine, though." 
In addition to his blocking, the Titans seem to miss some of his spunk. 
"I think we definitely miss Lorenzo's presence," tight end Frank Wycheck said Wednesday. "He brought an attitude to our offense that we were lacking in the past. With his attitude off the field, he jump-started our team. 
"We miss him a lot. I'm sure he's doing the same things up there to help that team out ­giving them confidence and giving them a boost." 
The Bengals have lost more games than anyone else in the NFL since 1991 and set about to change the chemistry in the locker room in the offseason. Neal was one of the top acqui­sitions. 
· The Titans' decision to let Neal go has been a factor in the Bengals' turnaround. 
-~'He does not accept any­thing less than his best," said quarterback Jon Kitna, who also signed as a free agent. "He's meant the world to us, I think." 
Weinke, Lytle vie for starting spot 
Associated. Press 

CHARLOTTE, N.C. 

The Carolina Panthers quar­terback Chris Weinke returned to practice Wednesday after missing a week because of a sore throwing shoulder. 
Weinke split time throwing to the first unit with Matt Lytle, who made his first career start last week. 
Panthers coach George Seifert had them practice that way in c a s e 
Weinke "We wanted to split the, against the can't play 
up because we don't Rams. 
Sunday Although
know how this is
against the Panthers S a n ultimately going to work want Weinke Francisco. out.,. back on the " W e field againstwanted to the 49ers (6­
split them George Seifert 2). Seifert up because coach said he 
different perspective," Weinke said. "You get to sit back and watch, and sometimes that's good, sometimes that can help
., 

you. 
Weinke has struggled through his rookie season, completing 56 percent of his passes for 1,590 yards, six touchdowns and 12 intercep­tions. He's been sacked 11 times. 
But Lytle fared no better in his fill-in time, going 15-for-25 for 126 yards, one touchdown and two interceptions 
we don't know how this is ulti­mately going to work out," Seifert said. "So we wanted to make sure that Matt was ready to go, too." 
But Weinke thinks he might be ready to go, especially after watching the Panthers (1-8) lose their eighth straight game last week. 
All he could do was helpless­ly look on as Lytle struggled through the 48-14 loss to St. Louis, trying his best to pick up a few tips from observing someone else running the offense. 
"You see the game from a 
wouldn't 

know if he'll be ready to go until the end of the week. Much will depend on how Weinke feels on Thursday, a day after throwing for the first time in seven days. 
Weinke said he was encour­aged just to be able to throw the football, but was waiting to see how he felt before making a prediction on his playing sta­tus. 
"A week ago at this time I wasn't able to throw," he said. "So we'll just see how it goes. I haven't necessarily tested it. so I don't know if it will .fatigue before the end of the week or not." 
The Congregation of Holy CrO~s welcomes our military chaplain guests. www.nd.edu/~vocation ANSWER ~ THECALL \t!:,/  

Thursday, November 15, 2001 page 19
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


/ 
At  Ernsl  &  Young.  we  
!881111~  enable people to bring their professional goals  
TO WORK FOR~  into harmony with their  

personal aspirations. u·s a \Vork ethic we believe in. That's why we were narncd one of the 100 Best Companies to Work For. Three times in a row. Perhaps you'll want to join us as we go for four. Come on over and get a warm welcome. 
ey.com/us/carecrs. EJf RNST& YOUNG 
\ . ' 

FROM THOUGHT TO FINISH.',. 
• 
., 


page 20 

The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, November 15, 2001 
NFL 

Falcon's Chandler expects to start 

Associated Press 
FLOWERY BRANCH, Ga . 
• 
Quarterback Chris Chandler practiced without severe pain in his ribs Wednesday, and expects to start when Atlanta visits Green Bay this weekend. 

"At the end of practice, it was a little bit stiff standing around," Chandler said. "But it's just a lot better." 
Coach Dan Reeves was pleased to see Chandler take his usual number of snaps. Though he remains question­able, Chandler likely will be upgraded to probable after practice Thursday. 
"I didn't think he had any trouble, and he said he felt good, so it's very positive," Reeves said. "[Unless] some­thing unforeseen happens, I think he'll be ready to go." 
Chandler served as the No. 3 emergency backup in the Falcons' 20-13 win over Dallas last week. · 
He was injured when New England sacked him for the sixth and final time in a 24-10 loss two weeks ago. 
I 
Though rookie quarterback Michael Vick and second-year backup Doug Johnson helped 
buck a disturbing trend 'against the Cowboys, history suggests Atlanta (4-4) will need Chandler to beat the Packers (6-2): 
i 

. The Falcons are 2-12 since the end of 1998 in games Chandler either missed entirely 
I 
\/

'/ 
or left due to injury. They had lost nine straight before Vick and Johnson combined to beat Dallas; 
. 
Green Bay owns a nine­game winning streak straight at Lambeau Field; 

. 
Packers quarterback Brett Favre, with 63-11 record in home games. has ."851 home winning percentage is better than any quarterback whose NFL career began after 1950 and who made at least 50 starts. 


"Whatever we do," Chandler said, "we're going to have to do it as well or better than we've done it all year." 
Chandler, whose 91.5 quar­terback rating is fifth in the NFC, needs better protection. 
The Falcons, who last year ranked second in the league with 61 sacks allowed, are tied for sixth with 28 this season. They're allowing a sack every 
10.85 plays. 

"It's no secret we've got a lot to work on in that area," run­ning back Maurice Smith said. "I know I need to be more con­sistent." 
Smith set the tone against the Cowboys by rushing for a career-high 148 yards. 
His play overshadowed shaky performances from Vick and Johnson. who combined for 55 yards passing, two fumbles and a 2-for-11 conversion ratio on third down. 
Vick and Johnson each threw a short touchdown pass. 


Cesar Lora 
C':'me see the paintings_ of this world-renowned artist from the Dominican Republic in the Coalition lounge on the second floor of LaFun 
.Wednesday, November 14th Thursday, November 15th 

NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
N'diaye's suspension upheld 
2.5 rebounds in two exhibi­tion games for the Phoenix. 
N'diaye will be allowed to practice and travel with the team during the suspension. 
"We are disappointed with the outcome of our appeal," Heideman said. "We thought there were strong mitigating circumstances for this young man and what he tried to do to keep his eligibility, but we will certainly abide by the committee ruling." 
Associated Press 

GREEN BAY, Wis. 
Wisconsin-Green Bay lost its appeal Wednesday to have the NCAA reduce freshman guard Calix N'diaye's eight­game suspension. 
The NCAA reinstatement subcommittee upheld an ear­lier decision to suspend the 6-foot-2 native of Norway because he played 98 games for the Ulrkien Basketball Klubb in his home country. 
The NCAA ruled that N'diaye violated NCAA ama­teurism rules by playing for a professional team even though he did not sign a con­tract and was not paid. 
Green Bay coach Mike Heideman said N'diaye will start serving the suspension immediately. 
N'diaye will be eligible to return Dec. 22 at Evansville. He averaged 8.5 points and 
Announcing the 7th Annual Keough Summer Internships 
in Ireland 
The Keough Internship will include: 
1. 
Seven weeks' internship 

2. 
Round trip airfare from the United States to Ireland 

3. 
Room and board 

4. 
Stipend 


All Notre Dame JUNIORS with a demonstrated inter­est in Irish Studies/Ireland are encouraged to apply. 
Applications -available in the Keough Institute for Irish Studies 1146 Flanner Hall 
irishstu@nd.edu 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 


HaMa 6lpaitar 
!F'fu . ..N~ 16 9:00 PU,_ 
* FOLLOWING THE PEP RALLY * 


Thursday, November I5, 200 I 
The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Murray joins Tribe staff 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND 

As a player, Eddie Murray 
loved to joke around with 
Charlie Manuel and talk about 
hitting. 
Now. he'll get to do it everyday 
as one of Manuel's coaches. 
Murray, who got his 3,000th 
hit while playing for Cleveland in 
1995, was hired Wednesday as 
the Indians' hitting coach. 
"When I was here, I got to 
know Charlie and some of the 
guys," Murray said. "There were 
a lot ofgood memories that Istill 
remember. I liked every bit of 
my time here." 
Murray was Baltimore's first­base coach under manager Mike Hargrove the past two seasons. He was the Orioles' bench coach the previous two years under former manager Ray Miller. 
"Eddie Murray is one of the most respected and professional individuals in baseball," said Indians general manager Mark Shapiro, whose father, Ron, is Murray's agent. "It's an honor to bring him back to Cleveland." 
Murray. 45, had been offered a position with Baltimore for next year but decided to return to Cleveland where he played from 1994 until midway through the '96 season. 
In Cleveland, Murray will be reunited with Manuel, who was the team's hitting instructor while the future Hall of Farner played for the Indians. 
Now, Murray will be coaching former teammates Jim Thome and Omar Vizquel. 
"This is a chance of having a bigger role," Murray said. "In Baltimore, I didn't get to work with the hitters because they had a fine coach in Terry Crowley. This is more of an opportunity." 
The Indians had been looking for a hitting instructor since Clarence Jones was fired follow­ing the season along with pitch­ing coach Dick Pole and first base/infield coach Ted Uhlaender. 
On June 
20, 1995, "Eddie Murray is one of 
most impor­Murray the most respected and tantly is the 
became the professional individuals kind of per­
20th player son he is. 
in history to in baseball ... 
There's a reach 3,000 side to Eddie 
hits when he 
Mark Shapiro that the singled m e d i a
Indians general manager
against the 
Minnesota Twins. Murray. Hank Aaron and Willie Mays are the only players in his­tory to have 500 homers and 3,000 hits. 
During the '95 World Series, Murray hit an RBI single in the 11th inning of Game 3 as the Indians beat the Atlanta Braves 7-6 for Cleveland's first Series win since 1948. 
However, Murray had a falling out with former Indians GM John Hart during the next sea­son and was traded back to 
Baltimore before the All-Star 
break. 
Murray played 21 seasons in the majors, and although he was mostly testy with the media. he was always one of the most pop­ular players in the clubhouse. 
"I'm very excited to have Eddie Murray here," Manuel said. "He's a future Hall of Farner. Just his presence on our club is a big plus. There are a lot of things that make players look up to Eddie. He's a big name in the game. 
"He had longevity and was a 
consistent 
hitter. And 
doesn't see. 
He's a special 
person." 

Murray was selected to eight All-Star teams, including seven with the Orioles. who drafted him in the third round of the 1973 draft. 
A career .287 hitter, Murray played 12 seasons with the Orioles and was one of base­ball's most consistent hitters during his career. He drove in at least 75 runs in each of his first 20 seasons and finished with 19 career grand slams, second all­time to Lou Gehrig's 23. 
NFL 
Ward apologizes to Browns for taunting 
Associated Press 
PITTSBRUGH 

The Pittsburgh Steelers keep 
apologizing to the Cleveland 
Browns. Sort of. 
A day after coach Bill 
Cowher apologized for cursing 
at the Browns' Corey Fuller 
following the Steelers' 15-12 
overtime victory Sunday, 
receiver Hines Ward said he 
shouldn't have taunted safety 
Earl Little after leveling him 
with a hit. 
However, Ward said Wednesday he isn't sorry for hitting Little so hard .that it caused a concussion because Little warned him several plays before that he was com­ing after Ward. 
"My emotions got to me as far as when the guy was down and standing over him and I'm sorry for that -that's not me," Ward said. "But in the heat of battle, when somebody is talking trash to you, your emotions take over when you get a good hit like that. 
"Two plays before that, he said he was going to kill me." 
Ward said he stood atop Little not to ridicule him, but to deliver a message. 
"These were my precise words, 'If you're going to sit 
there and trash talk and say 
you're going to do this to me, I 
end up doing this to you,"' 
Ward said. 'Tm sorry for what 
happened and my reaction 
afterward, but I'm not sorry I 
hit him. 
"That's the way we play foot­
ball, and we've been doing it 
all year. If he studied any film 
at all. he's got to see me doing · 
that to guys." 
Cowher said Ward was fortu­
nate he didn't get penalized 
for taunting. 
"He just told me to be careful 
and don't try to show up any­
body," Ward said. 
Ward is on pace to set the Steelers' for receptions in a season -he has 50 in eight games -but is almost as valu­able to the Steelers as a block­er. Although he is much small­er than his listed 6 feet and 197 pounds, he is often used as a primary blocker on Jerome Bettis' runs. 
'Tm not doing anything ille­gal, rm doing everything with­in the rules but the other teams aren't used to that 
. ' 

accustomed to a receiver going after them like that," Ward said. "But I'm happy with what I'm doing and I'm going to continue doing what I've been doing." 



(lobsofsilff
forabuok) 
WEDNESDAY NOV. 28 
AFROMAN 
"BECAUSE I GOT... " 
DOORS OPEN @ 9PM SHOW@10PM 
$7 IN ADVANCE $9 DAY OF SHOW 
LIVE ,. 
AT HEARTLAND 
FRIDAY NOV. 30 
"As Good As Dead" "Hl-fivlng Mother.•. " 
DOORS OPEN @ 8PM SHOW@10PM 
sa IN ADVANCE $10 DAY OF SHOW 



BRING YOUR COLLEGE ID -MUST BE 21 222 S. MICHIGAN:: SOUTH BEND:: 219.234.5200 :: HEARTLANDSOUTHBEND.COM 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, November 15, 2001 
NFL 

Van Pelt to take snap for Bills 
Vikings look to 

Associated Press 

ORCHARD PARK, N.Y. Alex Van Pelt has shed the pounds, not the nickname. 
He admits to still answering to "The Pill."short for the Pillsbury Doughboy, the chub­by cartoon character he once resembled. 
"I still get 'The Pill,' all the time,"the Buffalo quarterback said \Vednesday. "It's a nick­name that has stuck." 
Here's another one Van Pelt hopes will one day fit -starter. 
In his eighth NFL season the last ·six with the Bills -as a perennial backup, Van Pelt gets his first true shot at 

"ft feels good. This is 
which he obviously a position that went 23­for-41 for
I tried to put myselfin. I 
268 yards
haven't had this kind of 
passing,opportunity yet, and it's t h r e e touch­
something I'm really. 
downs, and
truly looking forward to.,, 
one inter­
ception. 

T h e
Alex Van Pelt 
k n o c k
Bills quarterback 
showing what he can ,do beginning with this Sunday's game against Seattle. 
He takes over for Rob Johnson, who will miss up to five weeks after breaking his collarbone against New England last weekend. 
"It feels good. This is obvi­ously a position that I tried to put myself in,"Van Pelt said. "I haven't had this kind of opportunity yet, and it's something I'm really, tnily looking forward to. I'm expecting good things." 
So are the Bills (1-7), off to their worst start in 16 years and in need of something to revive a sputtering offense that has scored two or more touchdowns three times this season. 
"Each time he's gotten the opportunity to play, whether in practice, preseason or the 
Vero Italiano 
Catalino's Trnttoria Downtown South Bend 

regular season, he's put good numbers up."coach Gregg Williams said. "Our team is excited about rallying around Alex. I'm excited about it." 
Despite his lack of experi­ence, Van Pelt's proven to be a capable backup, appearing in parts of f'out games already this season. 
His most significant perfor­mance came in rallying the Bills from a 28-9 deficit in a 42-36 loss to the New York Jets last month. It was a career-best effort in 
against Van 
Pelt has 
been his once-pudgy physique. 
While he's slimmed down to 218 pounds, he'll admit that he's not the fittest, most mobile or strong-armed quar­terback around. 
He makes up for it with sound instincts and knowing his limits. 
"Everybody goes with the prototypical quarterback,"receiver Eric Moulds said. "You've got to be 6'5, 6'6. You've got to be Drew Bledsoe-size." 
"And yet this guy,"Moulds said, referring to Van Pelt, "he just wins ball games. 

5minute~__A from CUTPC111T Campuslllllll'T!cZ1f1
Cold WeatlHK Expem 
,,Call 259-iooo for more details 

AVt rou vLA~~l~t; o~ 
ATlt~Ul~t; JVW?? 
If you're ajunior or if you were abroad spring of your junior year then your parents should have received information regarding JPW 2002. 
IJ YOUI PAIINTt DO, NOT 11(11\'I INJOIMATION PllAtl (ONTAfT TIii JPW OJJl(I AT 6!1•60!101 Pl(I UP AN APPllfATION 
.. 
OUT!IDI OJ TIii JPW Offl(l lMATID AT !14 UJOITUNI. 
That's all you want a quarter­back to do. Forget all the pro­totypical stuff. You just have 
avenge loss 
to be able to play football." 

It's to Van Pelt's benefit that the Bills have switched to the ·west Coast style offense this season. 
It's the same one he played in college at Pittsburgh, where he broke many of Dan 
Marino's  school  passing  
records.  
"This is  an  offense that I  

love to run,"Van .Pelt said. "To pick an offense to have some starts in, this is my choice." 
Van Pelt has appeared more comfortable than Johnson in grasping the quick-pass, aggressive scheme. 
"I don't know if I see things better, but that's one thing in this offense that I do have experie nee in it and can anticipate some things," Van 
'Pelt said. 
The opportunity comes two years after Van Pelt's career was in jeopardy of being over. Out of a job when Buffalo failed to re-sign him after the 1999 season, Van Pelt was on the verge of selling his home in Buffalo when then-Bills backup Doug Flutie hurt his groin during training camp. 
The Bills called and Van Pelt quickly re-signed for the veteran minimum. 
"From being unemployed to getting a bulk of the starts in the second half of the season, it's come a long way in a short period of time," Van Pelt said. "You just keep going, you just keep plugging along and wait for your chance to come." 
Associated Press 

EAST RUTHERFORD. N.J. 
Jim Fassel didn't waste time searching for the game plan the New York Giants used to beat the Minnesota Vikings 41-0 in the NFC title game in January. 
It would be useless. 

It's a different season, the teams have changed and the Giants (5-4} have to travel to Minnesota this time to play the Vikings (3-5). 
"There are some times when the stars just line up, and we played as perfect a game as you are going to play in a champi­onship game," Fassel said Wednesday. 
The Vikings never had a chance in the Jan. 14 game at Giants Stadium. When their offense walked on the field for the first time, they wore behind 14-0. Over the next 57 minutes, things only got worse. 
Fassel has repeatedly reminded his players this week that they shouldn't expect another blowout. 
"In our minds, it's forgotten, but I'm not sure that they have forgotten," Giants tackle Lomas Brown said. "We know how they are going to come out. When you have your home crowd, and your backs are against the wall, you usually play well. We're going into a buzz saw." 
Revenge is just one motivat­ing factor. The Vikings also have something to prove after dropping their last two games by a combined 89-31 margin 
and then having owner Hcd 
McCombs criticize them. 
Playing at home should also help. Minnesota has won three straight at the Metrodome. posting quality wins over Tampa Bay and Green Bay. 
"The assumption you have to make is that this is a really 
.. 
good team which has not played well the last couple of weeks," Fassel said. "We have to figure with all the things we've spoken about, we are going to see the Minnesota · Vikings with all the talent they have stand up and play." 
The Giants are coming into this game much like last year. 
New York's offense is once again struggling to put points on the scoreboard, while the defense has been outstanding much of the season. 
It will be hard for either unit to match last year's game against th'e Vikings. 
The offense gained 518 total yards as Kerry Collins threw five touchdown passes. The defense limited Minnesota to 114 total yards with Cris Carter catching three passes for 24 yards and Randy Moss two for 18. 
"I have been around long enough to know that anything that happened in the past doesn't have any effect on what happens in the future," said Collins, who completed 28 of 39 passes for 381 yards and no interceptions. "It doesn't. We're different. They're different." 
The Guitar Player's Association Presents Notre Dame's Own PROFESSOR OF THE BLUES: 
Don Savoie Jams Reckers Thursday, 11 :00 PM 
I I 
I 


Thursday, November 15, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
"I think what you will see 
will be similar to women's bas­
Soccer 
continued from page 28 
the better, according to Warren Lipka, head coach of the Kentucky Wildcats who earned a spot to the tourna­ment this season after missing out last year. 
"Any time you can get more teams in and give them the feeling of playing in the post­season is good," he said. 
While Waldrum concedes that one of the best ways to increase parity in women's soccer is to open up more bids in the NCAA tournament, he is concerned 
ketball the first two years after expansion," she said. "In the first few years you may see some teams that don't deserve a bid. But hopefully with the best players ... just going to the top teams anymore, a few years from now there will be a good tournament. But for a while, it is going to be the top 12 teams being the final 12 teams." 
Women's soccer is already a lot more competitive than it was seven years ago, according to Chris Petrucelli, Texas head coach and former Notre Dame head coach. Until' Notre Dame won the national title in 1995, 
there wasn't 

that the level of competi­ "/n a few years you may  any parity in women's  
tion may be down this year ­espe­cially in the  see some teams that don ·t deserve a bid. But hopefully with the best  soccer. N o r t h Carolina won the title  
early rounds. "Last year when we had 48 teams,  players just going to the top teams anymore, a few years from now there  every single year. "We won it [in 1995]  
you still had some blow­outs in those  will be a good tournament.,.  and at that point you had two  
first  games  teams who  
and  those  Alison Foley  were capa­ 
s e c o n d games when  Boston College head coach  ble [of win­ning the  
the  first- title],"  
seeded teams  Petrucelli  

had byes," he said. "My only said. "And then you had a concern is that parity might Portland and maybe a Santa not be that deep yet. The parity Clara jump in there and be is getting a lot better in the top competitive. Now there were 30-50 teams but I am not sure three or four teams. with 64 teams there will be a Now you have a UCLA, a lot of good first round games." Nebraska, maybe even a 
Boston College head coach Connecticut that can win it all. Alison Foley, whose Eagles will Now you are looking at 10 or face the Nebraska Cornhuskers 11 teams that have a chance to in the first round, agrees that win it all. I think you can see women's soccer doesn't have more and more parity every the depth right now for a 64-year." team tournament. But soon the The expansion to 64 teams 
talent will trickle down to will also give soccer fans a other teams and the first round chance to see more games. The games will get better. first two rounds will be hosted 

NWI 

.-YOUR ,AMILY FUN CENTER"' 
............... 
MONDAYS & THURSDAYS 
.9PM• 1 Z MIDNIGHT 
UNLIMITED BOWLING 
•wn. »

t,'•5•£03f $5.00 W $~ PER PERSON 
SHOES INCLUDED Beacon Bowl-42.1 oUncolnway w.. South Bend 23+4167 
by the top 16 teams with four 
NCAA SOCCER 
teams playing at each site. 
On the first weekend, there will be three games to watch rather than one as in years past. 
Petrucelli earns 
"For the true soccer fan that really want to come out and see a lot of teams, it gives them an opportunity to see some 
first Texas bid 
teams outside of who they would usually see," Waldrum said. "I think it's a great oppor­tunity for the general public." 
the Big 12 champions.
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Moving the first two rounds Although this year's NCAA bid 
Sports Writer 
to Friday and Sunday at the 
is the seventh of Petrucelli's same site eliminated the play­
career, it has been one of the in game under the old 48-team 
The first thing Texas head most difficult. He has worked format. 
coach Chris Petrucelli asks very hard to put the Under the old system, two 
when speaking to a reporter Longhorns into their game teams would play a game on 
from Notre Dame in mid­against Southern Methodist Wednesday. and the winner 
November Friday· night. would have to play again the 
is "How When he began building a next Sunday -usually against 
deep is the program at Notre Dame in a team that had a bye on 
snow?" 1990, women's soccer was a Wednesday. 
The for­fledgling collegiate sport.If a school had played in 
mer Irish There are more than three their conference finals the pre­
women's times as many schools fielding vious Sunday, it would be play­
s o c c e r teams today than there were ing three games in seven days. 
coach who in 1990. "All the coaches are happy to 
left the "There are a lot more teams be off that Wednesday game," 
s n o w y now," Petrucelli said. "There Walker said. "I think they all 
fields of is a lot more scholarshipappreciate the week to rest 
Indiana for the heat of Austin money out there. There is a and go to class for a few days 
three years ago, certainly lot more competition. When I and not have to be rushed to 
doesn't miss playing on those started at Notre Dame, there go to a tournament or host a 
cold nights at Alumni Field. were around 80 programs. tournament in three days 
But there is one thing he Now we are looking at about time." 
misses as he guides the 275." Although there are disagree­
Longhorns into the NCAA But while building a pro­ments among the coaches 
tournament for the first time gram presents new challengesabout the short-term implica­
in the history of the program today, coaching -whether he tions of expanding the tourna­
-the intimidation factor. was maintaining a soccer ment to 64 teams, all of them 
"At Notre Dame, we had a powerhouse at Notre Dame agree that for women soccer to 
goal or two advan­and compet­grow, this was the best deci­
tage in every game "/ don't think coaching is ing for the sion. 
we played because 
that much different no n_ a t i O n a l
"There are more than 48 
of our tradition and title or teams that deserve a bid," 
our history. the matter where you are. s t a r t i n g Lipka said. "Are there 64? 
name and that sort Players are pretty nearly from Maybe, maybe not but I think 
of thing," he said. 
similar and the game is scratch and 
there will be in a very short 
"We don't have that ,. fighting for
h

time." 
here yet. We don't t e same. an NCAA "When we first talked about 
have that history bid this a year ago, I was con­
and tradition and remains the
Chris Petrucelli
cerned that this might not be a 
sort of that intimi­same for
Texas head coach
good thing," Waldrum said. 
dating environment Petrucelli. "But now as it has panned out, 
that people are "I don't it looks like it is going to be a 
scared to come into." think coaching is that much good thing." _ 
The key word for Petrucelli, different no matter where you however. is "yet." are," he said. "Players are In three years at Texas, he pretty similar and the game is has taken a program that had the same. I don't think coach­
Contact Mike Connolly at 
never qualified for the NCAA ing is that much different
connolly.28@nd.edu 
tournament and turned it into here than it was there." 
The only real difference for Petrucelli is the weather. No matter what, he says he doesn't miss the snow in Indiana -even when the temperature climbs to 114 degrees in Austin. 
''I'll take the heat over snow any day," he said. 
Contact Mike Connolly at connolly.28@nd.edu. 
Do you know Mark McGuires stats better than your own address? 
Write Observer
• NDcinerna • 
sports
• THUR.SDAY, Nov 1 5 • 
~--·1 ES SU F!G ~-1 LI BR.AF-?Y fa, UD !TO RiUM
• • 1-4543 
7:00 Pf'.'l
• 

FREE ADMISSION ¦ 
¦

Pf.}. r:: f~t: ~-~ Y ED ~:.l-.(
•

TH~ 0 LPABTl',1E.NT OF F!Ltv:!, TE.L.E.V!~,ON .,~ND "f'HE:;_,(,:n:>.t::: 
£}¢•:it mfss !i~ ffffi!I.Sdi:i:i'f. Wm &l;Mt WXJr~ t!-,idi Nlk:fa~.HM. h!li!"LJre.f
•¦ • • • • ¦ • • • • • • • • 



•s, 
\1 
) 
,) 
t :\ 
i 
' \ page 24 -The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, November 15, 2001 
:\ 
I •:), 
\. 
\ \ 
I \ SMC SWIMMING 
\ 
SMC swimmers look to prove themselves 

Saint Mary's head coach Gregg PetcofT. 

The Belles are primarily look­ing to continue to prove their season times. 
"[We're] looking for quality of swims rather than record break­ers," said Petcoff. 
Although they know it is going to be tiring, the Saint Mary's swimmers are looking forward 
By NELLIE WILLIAl\,1S Sporrs Wrirer 

The theme of the next two days for Saint Mary's swimmers is to never underestimate the power_ of a small school. The Belles are diving into three days of tough competition starting tonight. Unlike their usual sea­son meets, the Belles will be competing against two Division I schools. They will swim al9ng­side the Irish men's swim team tonight \vhen they compete against Notre Dame and Western Ontario and tomorrow to face Texas ; Christian University. 
"[These 


meets] will put ..It will be good to get season. us on different into the water and swim "I really 
levels of com­feel like the
against people that
petition. It is team has put not a bad challenge us. " in a lot of thing to battle work since under differ­September,"
Julie McGranahan 
ent circum­said junior NELLIE WILLIAMS/The Observer 
swimmer
stances," said captain Lane 

Sophomore Julie McGranahan swam the butterfly stroke at the ND swim relays Oct. 5. The 
to a weekend of races. 

"We've been doing a mm1­taper," said sophomore Maureen Palchak. "It will be exciting to see what we can do this time in our season and see how practices have paid off." 
"It will be good to get into the water and swim against people that challenge us," said sopho­more Julie McGranahan. "We're looking to improve our times as the season continues." 
Last year the Belles traveled with the Notre Dame men's team to face Western Ontario. 
"It was exhausting but really beneficial," said Palchak. 
The swimmers are ready to 
kick into 
their racing 
Herrington. 
Belles face off against two Division I schools this weekend. 

SPRING 2002 COURSES 
1 n 

IRISH MILITARY HISTORY 
The Chief of the MacSweeneys seared at Dinner, by John Derrick, 1791 
IRST 232:01 MW 1:5S-2:45 Eamonn OCiardha 
Co-Req. lRST2111 
The Irish Military Tradition 
What better at Notre Dame than acourse on the ighting Irish? Over the last five centuries, hundreds of thousands of Irishmen have engaged in military conflict at home; in the same period, as many Irishmen have served in the ' armies of various European powers, the United States, Canada, and Mexico. This course explores the changing political and ideological contexts of Irish 
"We're look­ing forward to getting into the tion.
racing part of the season now. 
"Although it's going to be aSaturday is going to be a very hard three days, it will be goodgood meet for us." 
preparation for the conference,"Lauren Smith feels the compe­said the junior captain. 
tition the next three meets bring 
"Some of the freshman are
will help push the team. 

nervous about it," said Smith.
She is looking to gain some 
"The bottom line is that it is
experience before the Belles 
going to be a good experience. 
face off against MIAA competi-Our main goal is to get down and swim fast." 
Two meets early in the season against Division I competition will be a challenge for the first year swimmers, but the fresh­man feel prepared to endure the 
long weekend of races. · Contact Nellie Williams at "The older girls have been will6 l 76@saintmarys.edu. 
IRST 437:01 
T H 9:30-10:4S 
Ciaran Brady 

Late Medieval/Early Modern Ireland Contending Conquests: 
The Struggle for Mastery in Ireland, 1471-1660 
Focuslng on 1470 to 1660, this course offers new perpectives on the strugglefor mastery in Ireland. lnvestigatinga range of primary sources, students will explore the multi-layered English conquest of Ireland and the divese responses of the natives,ranging from accomida­tion and assimilation to outright rebellion and national war. Professor Ciaran Brady of Trinity College Dublin will teach the course. Professor Brady is one of Ireland's most distin­guished historians with areputation for i_nnovative teaching. 
While at Notre Dame in spring 2002 Brady will also teach: 
IRST 432:01 TH 3:30-4:45 Ciaran Brady . Elizabethans and Their World 1SS0-1603 
This course sets the work of the great figures of the "elizabethan Renaissance" ­Shakespeare, Spenser, and Sidney -in wider cultural and intellectual contexts. Materials surveyed in the course include the crime writing, religious exhortations, ballads, engrav­ings, and maps which late sixteenth century English people used to comprehend and con­trol their changing world. 
telling us how much fun it will be," said freshman Sarah Williams. "There's not a lot of pressure. To win would be fun, but we 're all going to go out there and try our best." 

·l 

.. ,.._ --"' 
-.. -.. ,;.. ... 



Thursday, November 15, 2001 page 25. 
The Observer . SPORTS 
Davie's decision puts Irish in tough spot 
There it was. in black and white, pasted on the back of yesterday's Observer: "Davie Refuses to Resign." It's one of those funny little news blips that makes. 
you look twice and perhaps shake your head and chuckle at the hilarity of the situ­ation. 
Y O U 


glimpse Colin Boylan over the 
article and brush it off Boylan's as one of Banter those ran­dom sto­ries that could only appear in the pages of a college news­paper. 
And then the issue rears its ugly head again. 
In the Chicago Tribune's Sports Section. On the front page, no less. 
And you gulp and feel your heart sink into your stomach. That's right, Bob Davie isn't messing around and he fully 
intends to be back next year. is one thing that Notre Dame's action turning South Carolina 
The implications of Bob Athletic Department has striv­into a bowl contender. Davie's Tuesday press confer­en to avoid over the past sev­Some suspect that Holtz's ence, in which he declared eral decades, it's the use of "retirement" was merely a that he has "too much invest­that ugly buzzword, "fired." way to mask a forced resigna­ed" in the football program to Notre Dame head coaches tion by then Athletic Director resign, could be great. don't get fired. They resign or Michael Wadsworth, who had 
If we are to assume that Bob retire, but fired? No siree, numerous personal differ­Davie is sticking to his guns Bob. ences with the outspoken and plans to live out the That's too harsh a word for coach. remaining four years of his a school that prides itself on Now, five years later, we five-year contract, then it being a "family" and a "com­are in the midst of a situation would seem that the Notre munity." that might pan out to be more Dame Athletic Department is Perhaps a little history is in ugly than even Holtz's. left with two options. order, here. Davie is in the midst of a 
Either they one: allow Davie Let's look back to 1985, tenure that is positively to come back next year and when Gerry Faust finished his Faustian, only this time the attempt to resurrect what is fifth and final year of a very main character is refusing to left of Notre Dame's national lackluster tenure as Notre make it easy on the men prestige, or they two: fire him Dame head coach. upstairs. outright and begin searching Rather than force the Davie doesn't want out. He for a new head coach as soon University into making a deci­wants to stay. And he wants as the season ends (Dec. 1, by sion on his future, Faust to be here for a long time. the way). resigned and saved the ND If you are current Athletic 
If you've been getting your brass a good deal of grief. Director Kevin White, you football gossip from the same His replacement, the infa­have to be kicking yourself source that I have, then you mous Lou Holtz lasted 10 right now. So far, his biggest would know that option one years before leaving the move ever re-signing Davie to has been officially ruled out University for personal rea-a five-year deal has proven to since about week three of the sons. • be a colossal mistake. college football season. Officially, Holtz was retiring To be fair, White's decision 
So it would seem like firing to spend more time with his was largely influenced by Davie would be the obvious seriously ill wife and his fami­Davie's 9-3 record and his choice, right? ly. But no more than three running for the 2000 coach of 
Not so fast. Indeed. if there years later. Holtz was back in the year award. 
:_::_\_\_i~!.•_l:_'_:[_'·.~-~-:;,:;_::.~_·;_·1.i_=i.·-_!:.·~./{_/i_:;_:;_·•·~~-·-.;!. __ ......., ..;.;.;.;.~.~=--:.:•:.:-:-:-:-:.·•~i-~~;.;.:~~-i.;.;.;.}i~i~;.;.~--;,:;.:~::.;/;.;.:;.;.::.~.~-~;.\;.: ~.;;.;,\.;.;.~_;t..~.t~:,;i:,$::,::»::~J:.;.t::~~B:..:,::;~.;:-:.~-:::-.;.~.:••:.:~.:/•••:•••-~.-;••
?\i_=\:.~~_,:.l_::_:~_t:~_:::_i:_i_'.._(.1~-~-;;_i~_:=.~-~-I.·_:;_:t_.:.!:_t_~.-~.;:_!~-~-~-.=)_,_;~_·I.i.:~_=:_=~;!:=:=_ 

t••:•••'••·•,•••:;..•.••·-:•,:·•·=•i•I:•i•:@t~@•@•tH•••••,•••: ;;ii;;1~iii1!i;ji;;;;~;:;;:it:ji•~~fa;:;;i~;~a:~~1n~~ji:,:ima!.::::;;,:1r~fa::::~::;;::~~;.i,:mi1::~:,::~:::ji;ii:1:@1:;i:tilltiiittii~~i;~~t;;,;:,~:;~i~:ii:;tf\.. 
D LITERATURE MINOR 
At the time. it looked like a 
smart move and a solid state­
mcnt of school loyalty. 
But make no mistake about 
it, Davie is not White's "guy." 
To every Athletic Director, every General Manager in the world of sports, there is noth­ing better than coming into a struggling situation and hiring exactly the right man for the job. 
Hiring the guy that will turn a program around is what GM's and AD's all around the country dream of. 
Kevin White never really had that opportunity. 
And While White may dream about Jon Gruden, Tom Coughlin, or Steve Mariucci, Notre Dame's his­torical aversion to firing per­sonnel means h.e is stuck with Davie for the next four sea­sons. 
Something has got to give and it might get interesting before all is said and done this season. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of th writer and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Fresco 
Catalino's Trntto.-ia Downtown Sooth Hcnd 

ERASMUS BOOKS 
-Used Books bought and sold -25 Categories of Books -25,000 Hardback and Paperback. 
books in stock -Out-of-Print search service -Appraisals large and small 
-Open noon to alx Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne · 
South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 
v ~ T • r<i" ..·, ,~"'t1~J1 ~'J f'-#. ··. · rJ1 ;.; r ;ii 1'ilt JiffvLt1lle 
.:( • ,;~ J$r:&ligf.1 \,~,-~~ :,• .E:~~-,~ ~l~!~~~~:W'·. , :,,. v•£ r~T f .. <>h_.,. -~ _}~iJ "'·,:~':::· l~:,~!J:· .· 
• /:'!v.,:,•, .,-;,:•-.._ •,•:;:,x$;,....,;,::;:,;··•:-•. •,,,..,;-::,:.•.. ~ ~ ~ ~-IJ. ;.• ..••·. '-~ ...:--''"'x ,. •JJ:..,:>••···-.."..-, 
Signature Service 
t._.., 

' .. . :-.y 
\f··----
C.:wr:0 imo o,1r servicr; GHntc-t r,nar can,pus and QivE '.•, :,fl\; ' ''"ir:, ~~·!·,r,r1:-cJt: ,·~i:l :~~nf't.f:r··r., ::, !1,\i V'-:/n !f:()k_ !(lf',;',i,-l(l) ;( 
.-=-:):" .:,~~} 
»,.,:> '! :.... -:~.c:.... f",:-. -....• .;JS ~ ...... ,.~ .-.,,t.• ... ,,., .-•.> ·• -~· ,., ... .. . • .. . ~ '-"'t">f'""1~"·:r~ V'i.·,:: :r": ~-h-~ t~~~tf ·i: -J: ::'P. · 
,:,),.., Y,,•;;;,; .••j•._,-,,, .,.-._,r,,,.,...._,,. ,.-{'1,,1 ,.,. 
··. .,,.. 
Receive $4 Off with a valid 
~--'.': 

Notre Dame University or Stx Mary's ID everyday~ 
:•.:-,,..•.,;..,
tl\1i~i¥11*:::::,., . 

Thursday, November 15, 2001 

. The Observer . SPORTS 

Irish seniors take a leadership role in 5-game win 
they're a much better team Irish again built a big lead Kreher said the team never several balls that she could with her in," Irish head coach but couldn't hold on. had any doubt it would come have dug but she didn't, balls Debbie Brown said after the With a 15-8 lead, the Irish back. that were relatively easy," match." She played well allowed the Redbirds to close "We knew we could go out Brown said. "But she came 
Senior Night was an evening against us and we had a real­the gap to 22-19 and then tie there and do it," Kreher said. back and made some great ly hard time stopping her. I it at 23-23. Points went back "We had total confidence in plays later in the match." 
players Malinda think that was for sure a big and forth and the contest tied everyone." The match served as prepa­difference in how they played at 27 before Illinois State Kreher finished with 23 kills ration for the Big East in the rest of the games scored three points in a row on a .340 hitting percentage, Tournament this weekend in 
or more kills besides game one." to tie up the match at two while Goralski added 18 kills Pittsburgh. Wednesday night as Notre Notre Dame was up 15-10 games each. and had a part in 11 blocks. Notre Dame takes on Dame fought through a tough midway through the second That forced a fifth game, Bomhack added 15 kills. Connecticut Saturday and if five-game match and defeated game, but the Redbirds fought played to only 15 points "We kind of just wanted to the team wins, plays the win­Illinois State 30-23, 35-33, back to a 28-27 lead. After an under the new rally-scoring end our four years on a great ner of the Rutgers­27-30, 27-30, 15-11. Emily Loomis kill tied the format. note," Kreher said. "They're a Georgetown match on 
The Irish breezed through match at 28-28, the teams In game five, the Irish great team to play to do that. Sunday. the first game of the match, took turns holding the lead seniors decided not to let the Sometimes in past seasons, "Those teams are very simi­holding the Redbirds to a .019 until consecutive kills by Kim Redbirds drop a bomb on the teams haven't been as lar," Brown said. "I think that hitting percentage. Illinois Fletcher and Bomhack gave their special evening. Behind strong and we're really excit~ they probably don't play quite State pulled to within 18-16, the Irish the game, 35-33. one kill and two block assists ed that we got to play such a as good defense [as Illinois but Notre Dame scored six "We have a lot of those situ­from Goralski, along with a great team on senior night." State]. But I think that that's unanswered points to build a ations in practice," said Loomis kill and a Bomhack On the defensive end, junior, definitely the kind of style 24•16 lead. The Redbirds Kreher, who had six kills in block, the Irish went up 6-1 defensive specialist Janie that we should prepare for." never pulled closer than four game two. "Our second side early in the match. The Aldrete contributed 26 digs in and the Irish took the win. pushes us a lot in practice Redbirds closed the score to the match, and Brown thinks 
But then Illinois State made and a lot of times they beat us 12-10, but Notre Dame took she could have had even Contact Noah Amstadter at an adjustment that turned the so we're used to actually three of the next four points more. amstadter. l@nd.edu. match around. Megan being pushed to the wire. and won the match, fittingly, "Early in the match she had O'Connell. who missed the Practice paid off tonight." on a kill by Kreher. last three matches for the In the third game, Notre "The seniors just kind of Redbirds with a concussion Dame was set to put away pulled everybody togetherand sat out game one, forced Illinois State and head home and said. 'Alright this is it. 
starting setter Becky Weber but the Redbirds had other We can do this, we've done to move to outside hitter and ideas. With Notre Dame lead­this all the time, this team backup setter Kelly Rikli into ing 24-19, Illinois State reeled isn't going to get us,"' Kreher the starting role. off six consecutive points to said. 
O'Connell returned for game go up 25-24. The Redbirds Brown was proud of her two and the Redbirds had then won five of the next team for coming back strong their starting lineup· back eight volleys to seal the come­in the final. deciding game. intact. back win and force game "We came through I think 
"They brought her in in four. pretty stellar in game five," game . two and certainly In that fourth game, the Brown said. 




(Salsa Dance) 
0 
C 
-
:c 
::s 
(fJ "0 
z 
. 
:E 
-= 
0 
m 

Salsa Dance: Tonight 

"'C 
C

Lafortune Ballroom, 9pm-11 pm Free admission 
I 
: {! •/J 



Thursday, November 1S, 200 I 
The Observer . TODAY page 27 


TYLER
FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY 
BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
WHATELY 

LIVED IN A MAICE ME
co-EXIST lN MUTUAL 
Ru~e:,s," 1ASor-t 

HEY MOM! SEND 
MONEY 
FOXTROT BILL AMEND 

• 
I 0oN'T SEE WHY You 

THEY'RE 8001<S CAN'T WE AS FANS JUST 
AND I HA'IE To MAKE IT 
AND Mo'IIES, NOT 
THOUGHT

ACKNOWLEDGE OUR DIFFER• 
"HARRY POTTER'' SPORTS TEAMS! 

Ho881TS DoN'T VERSUS "LoRD oF THE 
ING PREFERENCES AND 

================================================================= -:..::.::.::.::.::.::.::.::.::.::.::.-:..::.::.::.-:..::.::.::.::.-:..::.::.::.::.::.::.::.::.::.::.::.::.::.-:..-:..-:..::.::.-:..::.::.-:..::.::.::.::.-:..::.::.::.::.::.::.::.::.::.::.::.::.::.::.::.::.::.::.::.::.-:..-:..-:..::.-=-­

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 28 Utah, with "the" 60 Schenectady is 1 Units of distance 33 "Iliad," "Odyssey" on it and the like 63 Washington is
6 Push 
on it
35 "Great" beasts 

11 Frank McCourt 
64 Combine
memoir 36 "Cotton Candy" trumpeter 65 Change
14 Earth tone 37 led, as a jazz 66 A pop
15 Longtime Chicago band 67 With 51-0own, Symphony 39 Planetlike commission conductor 41 Contribution 
collector 16 Flying off the before the deal 68 Not all there shelves 42 Nixon, once 17 They're piled on 44 Roughly DOWN the floor 45 Some Winter 1 Outlaw hunters 19 Yeanling Olympians 2 Hurt producer 48 Choice on a 3 AOL activities 20 Undertake French survey 
4 Consequently 21 Noisy cutter 49 French weapon s Most sheltered 23 Inc. staff 50 With 47-Down, 
6 Sharon's land: 
went wild

24 Doctor's advice, Abbr. perhaps 53 One may be on 7 Barber's · the can
27" -Willow" challenge ("The Mikado" 57 Require 8 Commoner song) 59 Small small? 9 Brute leader? 
--------------10 Franz
"Hungarian
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
Rhapsodies" PUZZie by 0.vld J. Kahn 
_ _..,___.... 11 You may take them down 31 Minuet follower SO Fix firmly 56 One of the Everly Brothers
12 Waterloo locale 32 Series ender? 51 See 67-Across 
~~-=-+~:+:~~ 

13 Curry, e.g. 33 Cubic Rubik 52 Square 58 Star vehicle? 18 Fit to 
34 Fine literature 53 No hit 22 They're played it's not 54 An actor may 61 Got something 1=+~~~ with plectrums down 
37 George trip over one ~~~ 25 Under an 
Harrison's , 55 A Mrs. Chaplin 62 N.B.A.'s Unsaid 
umbrella 
"When We Was 

__..,. 26 Service .. acknowledgment 38 Time before Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 28 Studies hard 40 Native are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute) . 
.....,--"_.__._,_, 29 The evening 
43 U.S. Airways info

star Annual subscriptions are available for the ___..,. 30 More than a 46 Kind of test best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 feeling 47 See SO-Across years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year .. 
D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 
Name ---------------------------­Address-----------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2001 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
THIS DAY: Ed Asner, Beverly Oear the decks so you'll be able D'Angelo, Petula Clark, Yaphet to enjoy the weekend. Keep busy, Kotto, Sam Waterston or emotional problems will sur­
Happy Birthday: Look out for face. Someone you care about your best interests and live your may cause anguish. Avoid dis­own dream this year. It's time to putes and anger, which lead to stop letting others dictate what trouble. 000 you can do. Take control of your LIBRA (Sept. 23•Oct. 22): Be life and make changes to satisfy discriminating about new your needs and accomplish your acquaintances and protect your­goals. Your numbers: 3, 11, 17, 24, self. Avoid being caught in a tri­33,40 angle and be careful not to reveal 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): secret information. Do some You've been working too hard. research before taking someone's You need some excitement. Short word.000 trips beckon. Make plans and try SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): to convince a good &-iend to take Think twice if a friend wants you a weekend holiday with you. to contribute financially. Let him 000 or her down easily. Just say you 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): are saving for a vacation or a loan 
Prepare for the weekend. A few to a relative in need. 000 alterations to your home will SAGilTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): make it more comfortable. 1his is You will be more emotional than a great day to entertain. You can usual. Keep busy with enjoyable 
help a &-iend with financial prob­activities. If at all possible, attend lems by setting up a feasible a lecture. 000 budget.000 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): This isn't the day to get angry at a Put your thoughts on paper. You · colleague. Do your job and let the can get your point across ifyou are boss handle your co-worker's precise. Ask for assistance. If your incompetence. Finish your project idea is sound, people will want to for peace of mind and then pam­help it get off the ground. 000 per yourself. 0000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): AQUARIUS Qan. 20-Feb. 18): You will probably end up with You'll attract attention, and per­more responsibility. Don't make haps a special person, if you min­promises you may not be able to gle at fund-raisers or cultural or keep. Try to keep opinions to community events. Your unique yourself. You don't have time for ideas and innovative plans will idle chatter. 000 impress others. 00 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): It's PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): time to put your life in perspec­This is not the time to slack off. 
tive. Gambling is a waste of Prepare your home for an money. Save what you have for a upcoming event. Don't let the rainy day. Your time is better work hang over your head. This spent on physical fitness pro­is a day to share with the people 
grams or competitive sports. 00 you care most about. 000 
Birthday Baby: Your staying power, courage and need to follow 
your own path will lead to many accomplishments. Being competitive, 
you will never back aw~y from a challenge. 


I 
,, . 


Campus Sports THE National Sports
OBSERVER 


. Petrucelli, p. 23
. ND Volleyball, p. ~6 

. NFL, p. 20,21,22
. Column -Boylan, p. 25 
. MLB, p. 21
. SMC Swimming, p. 24 

. NCAA Basketball, p. 10 
Thursday, November 15, 2001 
NCAA WOMEN'S SOCCER 
64 ready or not 
. NCAA expands number of tournament teams 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Sports Writer 

Four yPars ago, \•vhen hP was still the head coach at Baylor, now-Notre Dame head coach Handy Waldrum took the Bears into the NCAA tourna­ment for the first time in the three­year history of the program. Although his team won-the Big 12 Championship and earned a bye to the second round of the NCAA tournament, his team was defoatecl 5-4 by Northwestern. 
"I think some inexperience showed," he said about the loss to a team that he considered le·ss talented than his own. "\Ve weren't quite ready for the tournament. We were a good team :.. but I think that lack of 1~xpericnce really showed. You have to be in the tournament for a few years and get a feel for the excitement." 
When \Valdrum's team 'lost in the second round back in 1999, only 48 teams received bids to the NCAA tour­nament. The same top teams got bids every year while smaller and develop­ing programs were left out. This year for the first time, 64 teams have earned NCAA bids. Organizers hope that by allowing more teams into the tournament, more teams will get expe­rienr.e and the womnn's soccer playing field will lew~I out. 
"The nxperi!)nce of going to th•~ NCAA tournament is somPthing that helps teams grow and drwelop," said Barbara \Valker. chairwomen of the NCAA women's soccer committee. "It gives teams sornPthing to shoot for and with 64 spots available. it is an attain­able goal for almost every team in the country.·· 
The more tr.ams that get NCAA bids. 
see SOCCER/page 23 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Brey, Irish sign 3 seniors to team 
By KERRY SMITH Spores Writer ,. 
Irish hPad coach ."vlikn Brey announcPd vVr.dnesday three high srhool seniors have signed national letters of intent to join the men's basketball program in fall 2002. 
Forwards Rick Cornett, Torin 
Francis and guard Chris Quinn 
will suit up for the Irish as 
freshman next season. 

Brey expects the trio to make 
an immediate impart on thP 
team. 

"\Vhen my assistants and I began the recruiting process with this class, these were three young men that \H\ tar­geted and concentrated our efforts on because we felt their skill levels and talents would lit our needs and best suit our system," Brey said. 
Brey has good reason to ,have high expectations for the recruits, as they have amassed an impressive list of' accolades ·during their high school careers. 
Cornett. a three-year starter at Homewood Academy in Country Club I Iills. Ill.. has led his team to an 86-10 record and two consecutive Illinois state ti ties. 
"Hick Cornett is a powerful guy,"' Brey said. "lie has great footwork and good hands. \Ve haven't had a body type like his in a very long time." 
The 6-foot-8, 230-pound senior has averaged doubh~ figures in scoring and rebounding during the past two seasons and has put up 
1.888 career points. 

And Cornett's accomplish­ments have gone beyond his high school's basketball court. 
Ile is a two-time participant in the Nike All-America Camp and was a member of the Illinois Warriors AAU team which played its way to the 17­an d-u nder national champi­onship. 
"Hick is a provnn winner who has been around a win­ning environment during thP 
see SIGNING/page 16 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Clark turns it 
( 

around 
By BRYAN KRONK Sporrs Wrirn 
Tlw lirst S<'nl<'I)('.(' on pagP 14 ol' tlw !\Jolrn l>anw nwn's soffPr ml'dia guiclf' pr<'lty much says it all: "Bobby Clark has ,,stab­
fished a n~p­u La ti on al thP colln­giatc level or turning programs around." 
\Vith tlw 

Notn' Damp 
mnn 's soc­
cer program 
in limbo 
af'trr the suddPn drath or coad1 
MikP B<~rticnlli on Jan. 25. 2000, 
thn athlotic department was 
scrambling to fill tlw position, 
,-vhich was ultimat<'ly lill<'d by 
Chris Apple~ in the intnrim. 
Ilowevcr, after tlw 2000 sna­son. in which tlw Irish linislH'd ninth in tlw Hig Hast with a 7-8­2 ov1~rall rPrord. having scori1d only 19 goals in 17 ganws. tlw program snPnwd to b1· in a l'unk ot' losing rf\rords and ol'fonsivc struggl<'s. 
"\Ve just kind ol' <'valuat<'d tlw program as \VP wPnt along lhat whole 2000 snason, and d,,cid<'d . . . a f't <' r I;\pp 1,~ I w· as n a nwd int<·rirn coach ... that \VP wantl'd to mak(' a coarhing rhang(•." said assistant athl,,tic diri~ctor Jim Phillips. 
EntN Bobby Clark. 
Clark. ovnr thn cou rs1• ol'-his 

illustrious 2!i-y1\ar roaching 
earner. has thn uniqu,, distinc­
tion of' having coachPd tlw sport 
of' soccer in one caparity or 
anothnr on four dil'forPnt conti­
rwnts. 
Arter sp<'llding 20 yPars rPpn'-· senting his native Sc:otland as a p Iayt~ r. hn b(~cam n a youth coach ol' tlw J\bnrd<1nn F.C. Scottish PrPmi<'r LPagu1• in 1977 -thP samP yPar NotrP Danw bngan sponsoring nwn's son•pr as a varsity sport. 
"Obviously. 1 think that play­

ing hPlps as a coa('h," Clark said. "But I was a tParher ... at Jordanhill Collcgn. which is tlw big teadwr training coll,•g(• in Scotland. And I think thP !'act that \\'hen I did graduatP thPr<'. I was playing prol'Pssionally. but I taught for I!> ynars evPry af'I.N­·noon. So I think I look at mysdf more as a tc·achPr. bf'causl' I 

see ClARK/page IG 


. Men's Swimming vs. Texas Christian, Friday, 5 p.m. 
. Men's Basketball vs. New Hampshire, Friday, 7 p.m.
SPO 

. Football vs. Navy, Saturday, 2:30 p.m.AT AGLANCE . Women's Basketball vs. Valpariaso, Sunday, 1 p.m. 



