
Time for dinner 
Love of law 
Scene critics review South Bend's ele_qant -and 

Wednesday
Class of1975 law School alumnus Paul 
expensive -dining establishments. including 
Mattingly argues that the school's slight drop 
The Emporium, LaSalle Grille and Basil's. 
in the rankings shouldn't be cause for alarm. 
APRIL 25, 
Scene . pages 12-13 
Viewpoint . page 11 
2001 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 127 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


O'Hara: Law School rankings flawed, incomplete 
By KIFLIN TURNER Ass1srant News Editor 
What's in a rating? 
For some. it means the diffcr­ence between choosing one school over another. while oth­ers claim that it's an arbitrary ploy for big money cor­porations to sell maga­zines. For Notre Dame Law School. 


O'Hara

it means another year has gone by without Notre Dame reaching the widely acclaimed top 25 law school position. 
At the 27th slot, just a mere two spaces away from top 25 status, Notre Dame shares the position along with four other universities. And with such a small margin of difference between the top 25 most her­alded schools, recent debate has focused on whether there truly important aspects of a law pro­Council. is a significant difference gram. "You really can't reduce 183 between a 25th rating and a The ranking system is far varied schools of law schools to 26th or 27th rating. from comprehensive, according a single number each and then 
Moreover, the U.S. News and to O'Hara. As such, giving any rank order them," O'Hara said. World Report's rating system significant consideration to the Insisting that the rankings tend that has shut Notre Dame out of system is shortsighted. As a to be flawed and arbitrarv. 
the top 25 status for a second response to the consecutive year has drawn. inaccuracy of criticism of the system as one the system in that is partial and inaccurate in ranking the measuring the real quality of a excellence of law education. law schools. 
Patricia O'Hara. dean of Notre over 175 out of Dame Law School expressed 183 deans of doubt of the measuring ability American Bar of the rankings system as one Association that simply doesn't work. (ABA) approved 
"I regard the rankings as a law schools flawed system." said O'Hara. have compiled "In general rankings systems and issued a omit a number of variables that letter to U.S. factor into a decision made to News and attend a law school." World Report. 
"I regard the rankings as a flawed system. In general, ranking systems omit a number of variables that factor into a decision made to attend a law school. " 
Patricia O'Hara dean, Notre Dame Law School 

The rankings are based on a "These rankings systems are set of arithmetic formulas, said inherently flawed because none O'Hara. Variables that are of them can take your special themselves inaccurate in mea­needs and circumstances into suring the immeasurable -the account when comparing law quality of specific programs, schools." according to a state• faculty. students -are in ment endorsed by the deans essence. marginalizing the most from the Law Schooi Admission 

Students design new park plans 
. Architecture program aids urban areas 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News Editor 
J.P. Curran, Julia Koslow and Thomas O'Nea! don't know when or if a new Coquillard Park will spring up on South Bend's northeast side. They're just happy to have set the plans for a revamped park in motion. 
On Tuesdav the three Notre Dame ar~hitecture stu­dents unveiled a semester's worth of work that laid out designs to overhaul the run­down park located behind Perley Elementary School on North Eddy Street. 
The presentation was part of a semester-long assign­ment for their ·•south Bend Urban Design" class. Architecture professor Michael Lykoudis coordinated the assignment with the "Our Park" project, an undertak­ing of the Northeast Neighborhood Revitalization Organization. the South Bend Community Development Department, the South Bend Parks and Recreation Department. WNDU Television and ,the 
University's architecture They began plans for the school. park with discussions with 
"When you sign up for the residents, landscape archi­class. you have no clue what tects and park department you're getting into," said officials. Organizers also Koslow, a fourth-year major. scheduled four residents-only "But working on this project meetings to determine what has been a very good experi­the community liked and ence, We've had a lot of posi­didn't like about the park and tive response." what they want to see in it, 
Students, professors and Lykoudis said. others con-"This will nected with be a com­the project "The park is an integral munity displayed p a r k
part ofthe community. 
their work designed by
Many associate the park
Tuesday to local resi­northeast with their neighborhood." dents," neighbor­Lykoudis hood resi­said. "Many
Norman Crowe
dents at the children 
architecture professor
University's helped with 
Robinson Communitv Learning Ce.nter. 

Coqui!lard Park was built in 1912 and deteriorated over the years but has remained a neighborhood park. project organizers said. 
"The park is an integral part of the community," said architecture professor Norman Crowe. "Manv asso• ciate the park with their neighborhood." 
Crowe said the aim of "Our Park" was to target the corn­munily park and include neighborhood residents in the revamping process. 
the plans ·as 

they are now." 
"I enjoyed the fact that chil­dren were involved because it is their park," O'Neal, a first­
year  graduate  student.  
added.  
Park  designs  exhibited  

Tuesdav included renewed landscaping, a climbing wall, tennis and basketball courts and an open field area, among other updated fea­tures. The park will be framed by sidewalks will have an interlocking path system. 
see PARK/page 4 
0 · H a r ·a expressed little con­cern over the present ranking of the law school, as she does not give the rat­ings much clout. 
"You're trying to use objective indicia of what are 
often times subjective deci­sions-and what may a very good school for one person is not necessarily the right school for another person, and those kinds of differences are not well captured in the ratings," said Jay Tidmarsh. Notre Dame Law School professor. 

Annually U.S. News and World report, evaluates a law school program based on 12 factors, two of which arc sub­jective. These two variables depend on the judgment of aca­demics. lawyers and judges based on biased information of a school's reputation. Out of the 12 factors. the reputation variable determined by acade­mics carries a 40 percent weight in figuring the overall score, compared to a mere 15 percent for a un,iversity's faculty resources. 
Whether the ranking system is flawed or not. the fact still remains that a considerable amount of the applicant pool are influenced by the opportuni­ty to attend a top 25 law pro­gram. "We cannot dismiss the ranking since we know appli­cants have the tendency to look at them." O'Hara said. 
Rudy Monterrosa. an eighth year law student. admits that the rankings effect the percep­
see lAW/page 4 

DEUTSCH 

KYLIE CARTER/The Observer 

Students and faculty from the German department gathered Tuesday night for for German Schmeckfest 2001. Or~anized by students Kaitlyn Gills and Carolyn Dunne, the evening fea­tured German cuisine, music, play reading and poetry. German professor John Liontas said the event will take place every semester. 
Wedr_iesday, April 25, 2001 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 

INSIDE COLUMN 
For Shirley 

Every year, The Observer is forced to celebrate Secretary's Week to honor Shirley Grauel. And when I say "forced," I mean forced because "sec­retary" doesn't even begin to describe everything Shirley does for this office. 
If Shirley only performed traditional secretary duties like picking up the mail, answering the phone and making sure I deal with most of the day to day prob­lems that arise at The Observer, we might be able to replace her when she decides to retire -which is 


hopefully not for a long, long Mike Connolly 
time. 
But Shirley does so much more than that. For more than 20 years she has been Editor in Chief 
the glue that's held The Observer together. Her offi­cial title is Office Manager. but she should probably be called Office Heroine, and be considered for sainthood when she dies. 
How many other people could have 21 diITer­ent bosses -all younger than 22 years old -in 21 years and still love her job? 
Every morning when I come into the office, Shirley is always there to greet me with a smile. No matter how tired, stressed or down I might feel. seeing Shirley always picks me up in the morning. 
Sometimes she is almost too nice. l think I would get more work done if Shirley wasn't such a wonderful person to talk to. From politics to the price of a box of detergent on Tho Price is Bight (one of her favorite shows), Shirley can dis­cuss almost anything. 
And nobody loves Irish sporl.5 more than she and her husband. She didn't jump on the women's basketball bandwagon this season. she's been driving it for years. She never misses a football, hockey or men's or women's basket­ball game. She probably knows more about Irish athletics than 90 percent of the students on cam­pus. 
But she is more than just a conversation piece. She is like a mother to hundreds ofwriters, advertising executives, photographers and edi­tors who have walked by her desk since 1980. 
When I was first named editor last spring, I received many phone calls from former editors offering me congratulations. They all gave me two pieces of advice: 1) don't be afraid to ask for help and 2) take care ofShirley. 
I didn't quite understand how important Shirley was to the office last spring but now, as I begin my second term as Editor in Chief. I can't imagine how The Observer could function with­out her. I know I wouldn't have survived my first year in the job without her and I certainly wouldn't have signed up for a second if she wasn't going to be here. 
In her 21 years at the paper, Shirley has con­soled countless heartbroken editors, stressed out ad managers and jobless senior news writers. Somehow, everything always seems better after you talk it over with Shirley. 
So Shirley, thanks for everything you do for us here at The Observer. I don't know where The Observer would be without you. And as soon as Hallmark starts printing cards to celebrate Accountant/Receptionist'Psychologist/Counselor/ Friend Day, I'll buy you one of those. But for now, I hope our sincere and heartfelt thanks will be enough. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Scene  
Maureen Smithe  Laura Kelly  
Nate Phillips Amy Greene  Graphics Katie McKenna  
Sports Molly McVoy Viewpoint  Production Anne Mari~ Mattingly Lab Tech  
Pac McElwee  Naomi Cordell  


The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) ls published Monday 1hrough Friday except during exam and vacation period,. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All fcproducrion ;ig}]ts· arc reSCTVed. · 
."}. ·'>-' ... 

THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS  
Wednesday  Thursday  Friday  . Saturday  
. Theater: "Oedipus Rex,"  . Event: Acoustic Cafe,  . Event: ND Collegiurn  . Event: Alumni Senate,  
Washington Hall,  Lafortune Student Center,  Musicum, Loretto. 8 p.m..  McKenna Hall, 1 p.m.  
7:30 p.m.  9 p.m..  . Movie: "A Summer's  . Event: Blue Gold Game.  
. Event: ND Chorale and  . Movie: "Proof of Life,"  Tale," Snite Museum of  Football Stadium, 1:30  
Chamber Orchestra,  DeBartolo 101, 10:30 p.m.  Art, 9:45 p.m.  p.m.  
Basilica of the Sacred  . Movie: "Billy Elliot,"  . Theater: ''Gypsy,"  
Heart, 8 p.m.  DeBartolo 155, 10:30 p.m.  O'Laughlin Auditorium,  
Saint Mary's, 8 p.m.  

Compiled from U-Wire reports 
OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Protest for living wage continues at Harvard 
. CAMBRIDGE, Mass. "Kennedy has expressed a Maclean said Kennedy's contribu­Sen. Edward M. Kennedy '54-'56 (D­tion to the campaign has been signifi­
desire to be heavily involved 

Mass.), who expressed his support for cant. the living wage campaign at a rally on until the end. " "Kennedy has expressed a desire to Friday, will personally meet with be heavily involved until the end," she Harvard University President Neil said.
Emllou Maclean 

Rudenstine Tuesday in Washington at University spokesperson Joe Wrinn
PSLM member

an afternoon reception along with his confirmed Rudenstine's appearance at fellow Harvard graduates serving in the event Wednesday, and said Congress. Rudenstine would expect the issue of 
The Harvard-affiliated members of Rudenstine at Tuesday's reception, a living wage to be addressed. Congress are also set to receive a let­made an appearance at Mass. Hall fol­"He's always been willing to talk ter from AFL-CIO President John J. lowing an afternoon rally in the Yard about the process we went through," Sweeney urging them to support the on ·Friday, and he used the opportuni­Wrinn said. 'Tm sure he'd expect 37 members of the Progressive ty to pledge to contact Rudenstine something like that." Students Labor Movement (PSLM) about implementing a living wage. The sit-in received an additional who have been occupying Mass. Hall PSLM member Emilou Maclean boost today from the second member for more than six days in the hope of said Kennedy has made good on his of the Mass. senatorial delegation Sen. winning a living wage of at least promise-after the rally, Kennedy John Kerry registered his support fur $10.25 per hour for all Harvard called and left a message on the sit-in Monday. in addition to Heps. employees. Rudenstine's voice mail urging the Michael A. Capuano (D-Mass.) and 
Kennedy, who will be introducing president to implement a living wage. Barney Frank (D-Mass.). 
UNIVERSITY OF DAYTON 
School acussed of misconduct 
DAYTON. Ohio 

A former University of Dayton student is accusing the university of not properly handling an incident of sexual misconduct. Former first-year student Kate Fahey filed a report on Dec. 6, 2000 stating that in October 2000, a fellow student sexually assaulted her. Fahey stated the university not only changed and delayed court dates after she formally reported the incident, but is still allowing the male suspect to attend UD and live in university housing. Fahey stat­ed that when she first reported the incident to the university, officials were nice and willing to assist her in any way. Or. Carol Cummins-Collier, associate dean of students, was one of the university officials that Fahey spoke with. "She [Cummins-Collier] told me that if there was anything I needed done to let her know," says Fahey said. "She also told me that if the male was found guilty, she would do whatever she could to make sure that he was kicked out of 
[UDJ." 
OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY 
University to pay for riot tapes 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 
In a press conference Monday, interim vice president for Student Affairs Bill Hall told reporters he is making arrangements to offer a monetary reward to persons with video tapes. photographs or eyewitness accounts that help identify individuals responsible for the must serious offenses during Saturday morning's riot. The rioting occurred after parties at several addresses on Chittenden Avenue combined and spread into the street. Hall said the reward will come from funds set aside by Ohio State University and the University Police Department. but he was unable to give a specific amount. 'Tm hoping that some people will feel it's the right thing to do, given what has occurred over there, which is total­ly unacceptable," Hall said. "If we need to subpoena the films that have been taken in the area. we will do that as well. It is part of our strategy." Studenl.5 who are identi­fied as participants in serious Code of Student Conduct violations may face penalties of university probation, sus­pension or dismissal, Hall said. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
The AccuWeather4' forecast for noon,Wednesday, April 25. 
AccuWeather'"forecast for daytime conditions and high tern r,1tures 
Lines saparata high temperature zones lor the day. 
Friday 
Saturd. y 
.........
........... ----­
COLD WARM STATIONARY
C 2001 AccuWealher tnc.

Sunda; 
,i 

High Low Shower• Rain T-atorma Flurrlea Snow k>• Sunny Pl. Cfoudy Cloudy Via A:isoclafad Pross
Mon9ay
{jvJ"··"-.._,l'"-v' 
Atlanta 69 50 Las Vegas 87 61 Portland 70 50 Baltimore 78 50 Memphis 68 48 Sacramento 84 52 Boston 76 50 Milwaukee 5B 40 St Louis 64 47
~Q~uuu ¢­
,,,,, ,,,, .-...·. -:•.•:•;::'· -=---=--=-~ u Chicago 61 41 New York 78 52 Tampa 83 66 S~rs T-stqrms A~1n F/~rries 1iki~ . Ice Sunny /?!.Cl()!Jdy C/ol,dy' . Houston · 77 60 . Phjlauelph1a Ill ~ "'<ashing)on DC. 77 qt Via A.uociated Pre3S GraphicsNet 


.... ------------------­

Wednesday, April 25, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Chorale, orchestra to 
O'Hara to speak at HCC graduation 
perfornt at Basilica 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame Chorale and Chamber Orchestra will perform their annual spring concert tonight at 8 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart on campus. The concert is free and open to the public. 
Now in its 26th year as the concert choir of the Universitv. the chorale presents Lraclition~l 
-music in concerts with orchestra on the Notre Dame campus and in a cappella programs on tour throughout the United States. The chorale traveled to Italy for a 10-day concert tour in the summer of 1997 which was highlighted by a performance in Santa Maria de! Fiore [Florence Cathedral], and returned io Europe last year. 
ByJASON McFARLEY 
• 
• : • 
• • : • ----------­
: Male Undergrad 
: Partici= of the 
• • Mike Garofola • • Keiechi Ndukwe
•
! .Wally Pfenning 
• ----------­• • 
News Editor The chorale is directed by Alexander Blachly, professor of 
Patricia O'Hara will be music at Notre Dame. A 
Holy Cross College's com­Grammy Award nominee, he 
mencement speaker next has been active in early music 
month. O'Hara, dean of the as both a perfom1er and scholar 
N o t r e for the past 26 years. Before 
Dame Law 
becoming Notre Dame's director 
School, of choral music in 1993, he 
w i I 1 taught early music and directed 
address the a cappella ensemble Ancient 
the 34th Voices. Blachly also is the 
graduat­founder and director of the vocal 
ing class ensemble Pomerium. 
on May 12 In addition to his position as 
at 2 p.m. 

O'Hara

director of the chorale, Blachly 
in the col­codirects the Schola Musicorum 
1 e ge · s St. of Notre Dame. teaches numer­
Joseph Chapel. ous music courses, and hosts. a 
"I know that commence­three-hour show each 
ment day is a very significant Wednesday morning on the 
day in the lives of the Holy University's classical music 
Cross graduates and their radio station, WSND, 88.9 FM. 
families, and I'm honored to be a part of it," O'Hara said. 
O'Hara has been a law school faculty member since 1981 and dean since April 1999. 
In the nine years prior to her appointment as dean,
American Heart ~ 
Ai,sociation®V 
Fighting Heart Disease and Stroke 
A bequest to the American Heart Association says something 
. special about the giver. It's an expression ofhope, agiftof health given to generations to 
come. It's an unselfish act that shows you care aboutothers \..,' ~-_ and wantto leave the world better than you found it Your \ . ,.. gift will be used to fund
\.....---~=:::::~researchandeducational 
,.... programs to fight heart attack, stroke, high blood pressure and other heart and blood vessel diseases. To find new ways to stop the sadness, suffering and death -and give others the free.dom of good health. To learn more about how you can leave a legacy for the future, call l-800-AHA-USAl. Do it today. 
This space provided as a public service. ©1992, 1997, American Heart Association 
• · Grad/Fae/Staff 
she held the post of vice porate and securities law. president for student affairs. She is a member of the a role that in June 1990 California State Bar, the made her the first woman to Federal Bar for the Northern serve as a University officer. and Central Districts of In this position. O'Hara over­California and the' United saw many aspects of student States Court of Appeals for 
I i f e . includ­i n g 

"I know that commencement 
cam ­

day is a very significant day
p u s 

m i n • in the lives ofHoly Cross istry. graduates and student 
their families." 
activi­t i e s , student Patricia O'Hara 
r e s i -dean of Notre Dame Law School deuces, r e s i ­dence 
the Ninth Circuit. 
Throughout her career. O'Hara has received sev­eral awards and distinc­tions. 
In 1986, she was chosen Distinguished Professor of the Year by the law 


The University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
Notre Dame Chorale & Chamber Orchestra 
Alexander Blachly, director 
Free and open to the public 

For more information, lease call (219) 631-6201 or visit htt :/ /www.nd.edu/-con oers 
life, health services, Notre school students_ In 1997. she Dame Security/Police. was honored with the 
O'Hara earned a bachelor's Howard J. Kenna. C.S.C. degree from Santa Clara Award for outstanding ser• University in 1971. In 1974. vice to Notre Dame and the she graduated first in her Congregation of Holy Cross. class on her way to receiving A 1988 U.S. Supreme Court a doctor of laws degree from opinion also cited a UCLA Notre Dame. Law Review article by 
O'Hara specializes in cor-O'Hara. 
Study -exrunines eating disorders 
similar to that of the U.S. pop­

Special to The Observer 
ulation. according to a study conducted in spring 2000 byEating disorders among stu­

researchers at Notre Dame

dents at the University of and Saint Joseph Regional
Notre Dame occur at a rate Mmlical Center in South Bend. 
-------------..
Participant of IM Team Of The Year the Year" • Cavanaugh Basketball 
• 
Liz,Cheun_g_­



•The Deuce CoRec Football 
•JunboFeng 
•Off Campus Ice Hockey 

• Scott Klein -------------­
~e-e-::::: ~ 
l{ristin·King 

Athletic Departrnc;~efN otr:Da~•Vanessa Lichon 
PROUDLY PRESENTS
Th R s
e eC .pys 
Female Undergrad . 'Pa~~cipant?fthe Y,:~.ar~ • Je11ni:€haug
• 

• 
Vote Online at http://ddweb.nd.edu/ddwww/recsport/ 

• 
Go to the website for narratives of the nominees 


r,::;;;s~~ 
==-.........,..;;.,;.J 
• 
• • 
• : • 
• 
• : • 
: 
: 

• -----------------.. •
! ------------------------. LNO Team of the Year • 
• IM Game ofthe Year •Sorin Walsh Wiffleball & NerfFB • : ·•Mill Basl<,etbaU Final-l{eenan vs~,Keougli .· •O'Neill/McGlinn Broomhall : • •MIH Football SemifinaI-Dillonvs.KeeAan; •Keough/Welsh Fam. Volleyball • 
• •WIH Football Final-<Welsh Fam. vs. Howard ...._________________ •
• .....______________________ . 
• 
and 90 men surveyed (50 per­

• 
cent of the sample) reported:that they binge eat occasional­


. ly. although their weight is 
• • • 
• 
: 

The study sought to determine how many undergraduates exhibited symptoms of eating problems or diagnosable eat· ing disorders. and how many others were affected by those behaviors. Results were com­pared with a similar study con• ducted in 1988. 
Among women. 0.5-1.0 per· cent meet the full criteria for anorexia nervosa, while the prevalence of bulimia nervosa is approximately 1-3 percent. The rate of occurrence in men is approximately one-tenth of that in women. These findings are consistent-witb rates in the population at large, although the researchers believe that the actual number of eating disorders on campus is under­reported. The results also show that many students engage in high-risk behaviors that impact their lives and those of others. 
The researchers also con-
eluded from their findings that: 
. Denial plays a signifieant 
role in why many people are reluctant to seek help. Many
students who consistently engage in high-risk behaviors but do not meet the full diag­nostic criteria for an eating disorder do not seek help. There is concern that the seri­~~~:~~s ~; i~~~~e~~haviors and 
dirfe~~r:tiFrno~ o;:~f:;~sg ~~ 
~::•:_"~;~£,:1v~; ~s\'":~!:: 
normal and they do not demonstrate other troubling behavior. The researchers believe that these responses do not provide cause for concern because many people occa­
sionally overeat and because the word "binge" is defined in 
m:1~~!~!r~~~:~t;esidential 
environment, coupled with high-achieving students. cans-es the behaviors of some stu­
• • dents to impact others signifi­
• The RecSpys will be presented at the Dinner of Champions-Attendance is • cantly -Students are greatly
• 
· · · l • affected by others' comments

• 
by 1nv1tat1on on Y • about their eating habits, exer­


• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •·• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •cise behaviors, appearanceand weight. 
Wednesday, April 25, 200 l
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Assault victim teaches Martial Arts to SMC 
. Speaker urges awareness as best self-defense 
By KATE DOOLEY 
News Writer 
As a two-time assault vic­tim, Barbara Copeland made a decision she would not be assaulted again. 
So she took action. 
!laving learned the practice of Marshal Arts to pro­tect herself, 
Tuesday night that aware­ness is one of the first keys to protecting themselves from assault. 
"No matter who you are. if you are with your friends or not. you have to always be aware," she said. 
In a lecture and demonstra­tion, Copeland outlined six main points women needed to know to protect themselves from assault: 
. Don't ever go to a second location with the attacker. 
Park 
continued from page I 
In the middle of the park, a community center with picnic and concession pavillions serves as a centerpiece. 
Officials said the design unveil­ing was the completion of the first stage of "Our Park" and that there is no timcframe for completing the project. Organizers next have to obtain estimates for construction of the park and find sources to fund it. Stage three would include breaking ground at Coquillard. 
Curran, Koslow and O'Neal, all of whom are returning to Notre Dame in the fall. said they intend to stay involved in the project. 
"Even though the designing aspect is over, we told them we'd be out there volunteering, helping construct the park if they needed us," said Curran. a fourth-year major. 
Are you an mconnng freshman interested in journalism? 
Work for The Observer. 
Call 

. 
When walking or jogging, don't wear headphones. 

. 
If your car breaks down, do not get out of your car. Call for help or ask a police officer to assist you. 

. 
Drive with all doors locked. 

. 
Appear confident and look people in the eyes walk­ing past them. 

. 
Never stay somewhere where you are not comfort­able. 


Copeland also showed stu­dents sev­eral simple 
"No matter who you are, s e I f ­
Copeland, a 

defense
local instruc­ifyou are with your 

moves used
to1· o f Martial friends or n,ot, you have for escape
Arts in 

to always be aware." during an 
Mishawaka, 

attack. 
told students 

With prop­
at Saint Barbara Copland 

er training,
Mary's 

assault victim anyone can 
use simple s e I f ­defense. Copeland said. 
Several students expressed interest in developing a self­defense class at Saint Mary's in questions following Copeland's lecture. 
Linda Timm, vice president of student affairs, is an advo­cate of the proposal. 
"I strongly believe that self­defense is a skill that is important and needs to be developed through repetition and practice." 
ONE AIRJ.INE Ttcn:r: $200 
Law 
continued from page I 
tion of a schools reputation. 
"When I first applied to the law school, ii was like in the top 25. so it did sort of effect your decision to sort of attend this school as opposed to another," said Monterrosa 
"I guess when you're first applying, you want to be able to say that you're going to a top 25 school. Once you start looking for a job, it's going to be easier if you graduate from a top 25 school, than if you would have graduated from a school that wasn't as highly ranked." 
The current status of the law school as one that is not included in the top 20 or 25 schools may discourage poten­tial students who give consid­erable credit to the rankings. 
"It's fair to say that it's an important tool for students in choosing a law school, but they don't capture everything. or what's important about a law school,'' said third year law student, Kristen O'Connor. "The most important things about Notre Dame just can't be quantified," said O'Connor 
Monterrosa also does not ascribe to the claim that the rankings are comprehensive as a system measuring excel­lence as he believes that Notre Dame has a lot more to its law program than a ranking. 
"I believe that we're still going to attract a lot of people here because of the fact that it is Notre Dame, and because we do have that strong acade­mic reputation-and you have that name brand recognition. 
To those students who pay 
particular attention to the rankings system, some faculty members would prefer they not choose Notre Dame if they primarily use the rankings as a deciding factor in choosing a law school. 
"To those students who are captivated by going to whichever school is more highly ranked this year, if that's they're primary criteria, we'll lose those students to one's that are 26 or 22, or 18 or wherever-I'm not so sure that I mind that loss. because if that's the only basis on which they are making a deci­sion, I think it's a rather ill­informed judgment," said Tidmarsh. 
"If you make your decision on a one year thing, knowing that the next year. the ratings are going to be somewhat dif­ferent. that's a pretty irra­tional way of choosing the right law school for you," said Tidmarsh. 
It is primarily up to the stu­dent to investigate programs of interest in gaining an accu­rate idea of a law school's potential according to Monterrosa. 
"As far as students are con­cerned, I think it is a matter of the applicant doing a lot of research as to why they want to go to a certain school. And I think regardless of whether we're in the top 25 or not, when you come to Notre Dame-to this law school, you have a very strong alumqi support," said Monterrosa 
Continuing to improve the quality of Notre Dame's Law School is important, but is cer­tainly not a reactionary deci­sion based on the rankings according to O'Hara. When asked what action might be taken to improve the resources of the law school. O'Hara claimed that first the distinction needed to be made in the motivating factors behind making any changes. Any improvements made would not be in reaction to the ratings, but as an effort indc­pendent to the rankings to advance the academic status and student experience of the law school in keeping with the University's vision. 
"We make our decisions based on remaining true to our vision of continuing to make a gre.'.1,t law school," O'Hara said. "Our vision is not driven by the ratings." 
The rankings may not be the initiating factor in bringing about change, but it may indi­rectly draw attention to some areas necessitating improve­ment. 
··1 would personally like to see the law school invest more in public interest and encour­age students in public interest regardless of' ratings," said third year law student, Laura Weiler. 
Improving available resources. expanding space. and recruiting top demanded faculty members arc not mea­sures taken to simply gain preferred ranking status said Monterrosa. 
"I don't think they're doing it in response to the ratings, they're improving just because the law school is always look­ing to improve itself," said Monterrosa. "As far as I'm concerned, the ratings don't really matter-what matters is the quality of education that you 're receive at an institu­tion. and that you're happy with your education," said Monterrosa. 
OPENS THIS WEEK! 
Don't miss this funny yet touching Broadway musical! 
Thursday 
April 26th at 8 p.m. 
• 
Friday 
April 27th at 8 p.m. 

RENTING A 15 PASSENGER VAN: $750 • 
SPENDING A WEll IN SAN FRANCISCO WITH 14 OF YOU JAVORJTE GJR1S: 
Saturday

PRICELESS 
April 28th at 8 p.m. 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY BIG DOG! 
• 
Sunday 
April 29th at 2:30 p.m. 
• 
Saint Mary's College 
O'Laughlin Auditorium 
5•fot Ma,y's Co/leg•~

MO~fi«Jfk/ 
THE ARTS 
NOTRE DAME, IN 
For ticket information contact the­Saint Mary's Box Office at 
284-4626 
(219) 631-4541. 


ATION 
Wednesday, April 25, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
U.S. has world's leading economy: 
The United States and Singapore kept their top spots as the world's most competitive nations, but strong growth in Hong Kong has brought it back up the chart, according to an annual survey released Wednesday. Japan, a previous leader, languished in 26th place in the poll of business leaders conducted by the International Institute for Management Development. 
Foot~and-mouth disease infects human: A slaughterer who may have Britain's first human case of foot-and-mouth disease in decades accidentally swallowed fluid from a decomposing carcass, the govern­ment said Tuesday. Two other people also were being tested, the Public Health Laboratory Service said. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Settlement reached in Elain case: 
The Miami relatives of Elian Gonzalez and a Massachusetts family convicted in a sex abuse case will get a portion of the $500,000 estate left by a woman who committed suicide. A settlement was reached last week between the family of Anne Katherine Abernathy, the Gonzalezes and the Amirault family, Gonzalez attorney Roger Henson said Tuesday. Henson said none of the parties to the settlement would disclose its terms. returned Tuesday. 
Company recalls mounain bikes: 
A California bicycle company is recalling about 38,000 boys mountain bikes because the front suspension fork can break, resulting in serious crashes. Dynacraft Industries Inc. of San Rafael announced the recall Tuesday in conjunction with the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission. Dynacraft has received 33 reports of the suspension forks breaking, resulting in 32 injuries. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Three men indicted on gunstore
shooting: A federal grand jury has indicted three men on charges they killed a 73-year­old man last year while robbing his Hammond gun shop. Frank Freund was shot in the head, apparently while eating lunch, and found dead on the floor of Firearms Unlimited on March 20, 2000. The indictment charges cousins Keon Thomas, 26, and Damione Thomas. 20, and Styles Taylor, 20, all of Hammond, with murder and robbery, the U.S. attorney's office announced Tuesday. 
Market Watch April 24 

Dow 
10,454.34 -77.89 

Jones 

Composite VoJume:

~ s~3
e: 
NIA 

AMEX: 902.87 -0.67 NASDAQ: 2,016.61 -42.71 NYSE: 613.97 -4.80 S&P 500: 1,209.47 -14.89 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 INDX (QQQ) -1.88 -0.85 44 .30 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -6.17 -1.07 16.26 JDS UNIPHASE (JDSU) -13.90 -3.36 20.82 LUCENT TECH INC (LU) +11.41 +1.05 10.25 DELL COMPUTER (D~LL) -11.93 -3.50 25.85 
CHINA 

Associated Press 
BEIJING 
China on Tuesday denounced U.S. plans to sell weapons to Taiwan, warning Washington not to further hurt ties, while Taiwanese applauded the move as a sig­nal of the Bush administra­tion's commitment to the island. 
China's Foreign Ministry said it "strongly opposed" the sale of de.5troyers, submarines and submarine-hunting planes and said it could increase China-Taiwan ten­sions. 
"Washington must exercise prudence on the question of anns sales to Taiwan so as not to create new harm for rela­tions," said the ministry spokeswoman, Zhang Qiyue. 
Still, it was a relatively restrained response from China, possibly reflecting relief that Washington deferred Taiwan's request to buy U.S. destroyers equipped with the high-tech Aegis radar. Both China and the United States are also fearful ofjeopardizing their tens of billions of dollars in annual trade. 
U.S.-China relations are tense following an April 1 col­lision between a U.S. spy plane and a Chinese jet that led to the 11-day detention of the 24-member American crew. Ties have also been strained by f.hina's detention of five writers and scholars, four of them American citi­zens or permanent U.S. resi­den1s. 

Zhang said China had protested to Washington over the planned arms sale and would continue to do so. But she did not threaten specific action against the United States or Taiwan, which Beijing considers a lost province that it wants back. The two sides split amid civil war in 1949. 
In Washington, U.S. State Department spokesman Philip Reeker said Chinese Ambassador Yang Jiechi had registered a formal protest at a meeting Tuesday with Undersecretary of State Marc Grossman. 
China had said the sale of Aegis equipment, a serious threat in any conflict with Taiwan, would be a major provocation. 
Despite the deferral, China denounced the plans to offer Taiwan four Kidd-class destroyers, up to eight diesel submarines and 12 P-3 Orion anti-submarine aircraft. 
"All these weapons are sophisticated and advanced anns which the Chinese side is opposed to," Zhang said. Such sales would "seriouslv under­mine China's sovereignty, interfere in China's internal affairs and will give rise to ten­sion across the Taiwan Straits." 

SOUTH AFRICA 
President questions HIV testing 
and his government said its AIDS policy ral drugs through the public health sys­
Associated Press 
was based on the premise that HIV, or tem, saying they were not yet proven to 
CAPETOWN human immuno deficiency virus. did be safe. 
President Thabo Mbeki on Tuesday cause AIDS. "I think it would be criminal if our questioned the need for people to take But in a rare live broadcast on the government did not deal with the toxic­HIV tests, saying there was disagree­private television station e-TV, Mbeki ity of these drugs," he said. "Let's stop ment among scientists about what reignited the debate Tuesday, saying politicizing this question, let's deal with exactly was being tested. he would not take a public HIV test as it the science ofit." 
Mbeki caused an international would send a message that he support­AIDS activist say Mbeki's often con­uproar more than a year ago when he ed a particular scientific viewpoint. troversial views on AIDS have sown courted the view of some scientists who "I go and do a test. I am confirming a confusion about how to deal with the question the link between HIV and particular paradigm," he said. epidemic in a nation where an estimat­AIDS and believe HfV testing should be Mbeki also rejected growing calls for ed 11 percent of the population, or stopped. the government to provide patients suf­some 4.9 million of 45 million, is HIV 
After his public image took a batter­fering from AfDS, or acqrured immune positive, one of the world's highest ing, Mbcki withdrew from the debate, deficiency syndrome, vvith anti-retrovi-infection rates. 
page6 The Obse.,.ver . NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, April 25, 2001 
Senate questions U.S. anti-drug prograIDs 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The Senate Intelligence 
Committee chairman cast doubt 
Tuesday on the future of what 
he called a "very valuable" anti­
drug-lrafficking program in 
Peru that led to the downing of 
a plane carrying American mis­
sionaries in which a woman and 
her daughter were killed. 
"When you lose a young woman and her child because of a lack or communication, I believe, among other things, it's just too much," Sen. Richard Shelby, R-Ala., said after a secret briefing by CIA Director George Tenet. 
He praised President Bush for suspending the program, in which CIA workers conduct sur­veillance over drug-growing areas of Peru and point out potential drug-trafficking planes to Peruvian air force authorities, who then decide what to do about it. 
Shelby, like Bush administra­tion officials before him, indicat­ed the problem stemmed from the Peruvians improperly "accelerating" procedures, not taking all the steps needed to determine whether the pontoon plane carryiRg the family of four and a pilot was involved in drug trallicking. 
He indicated that Americans didn't skip any steps. 

"I don't believe that the Americans accelerated the shoot-down of anything," Shelby said. "The American role ... was to provide information and they have not had a role in whether or not an interception takes place. That is up to Peru." 
The CIA crew contacted its base in Peru when it became clear the Peruvians were set to shoot down the plane, a U.S. intelligence official said Tuesday night. speaking on condition of anonymity. The crew described what was going on and related their uneasiness with what was happening, he said. 
The downing occurred at most two minutes later. the official said, adding that the crew could do little since it was not in a position to tell the Peruvians what to do. 
Peru's prime minister, mean­while, said Tuesday it was too early to lay blame for the down­ing. 
"I think that for the moment it would be premature to say that Peru's air force was responsible 
or that the pilot of the plane was 
responsible," said Javier Perez 
de Cuellar. who was in New 
York. 

Tenet said his investigation should be done within 48 hours, Shelby said, adding that the pilots have not yet been debriefed and he wants to hear the Peruvians' side. 
Despite Shelby's misgivings. the U.S. surveillance flights could resume in a few weeks as the United States tries to pre­vent drug traflickers from tak­ing advantage of a lull in enforcement, said a State Department official. who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
Within the next few days. U.S. officials are expected to leave for Lima to talk with Peruvians about Friday's downing. 
A surveillance plane owned by the U.S. Air Force and operated by three CIA contract employees accompanied by a Peruvian technician, spotted the mission­aries' plane and called it to the attention of the Peruvian mili­
tary. 

U.S. officials have said the Peruvians failed to take all the required steps -such as check­ing out the plane's identification number and signaling it to land -before ordering the plane shot down. Killed was mission­ary Veronica "Roni" Bowers, 35, and her adopted 7-month-old daughter, Charity. Her husband Jim and their 6-year-old son. Cory, survived, as did pilot Kevin Donaldson, who was wounded and in fair condition Tuesday after undergoing surgery on both legs. 
The Peruvians have said they took ail necessary steps, but the plane's occupants failed to respond to radio messages. 
Sen. Lincoln Chafee, R-R.I., praised the U.S.-Peruvian efforts since the mid-1990s to reduce cocaine production by virtually closing the so-called "air bridge" between Peruvian coca growing areas and Colombian cocaine production sites. Peru's coca cultivation has dropped dramatically. 
"It's a very strict policy, and, to be frank, a very successful policy of restricting drug traf­ficking -a shoot-first, ask­questions-later policy," said Chafee, chairman or the Senate Foreign Relations subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere, Peace Corps, narcotics and ter­rorism. "One ingredient of its success was its severity. It drove the trafficking out of Peru.' 
NEED A JOB FOR NEXT YEAR? 
Student Activities has openings for 
£a:J,.oA1:.untl Sl,ud,,.n1 tB.u.ild.inq ~ 
for t:he 2001-2002 academic year. 
J 

Experts study birth-defect stats 
and Prevention epidemiolo­
Associated Press 
gist. His study compared what
ATLANTA 

women said for birth certifi­So many new mothers lie cates and what they said in a
when asked whether they telephone survey several
drank alcohol during prcg·­years later. Just seven of 278 
nancy that some national 
women admitted alcohol use
statistics on birth defects 
on the birth certificate; 32should be thrown out, a gov­admitted it in the telephoneernment study says. 
survey.

Only about one in 20 The study projected the women who drink during number of 
pregnancy 
women who
admits ii 
actually
"The problem is. can you

on her drank dur­
child's trust the data?" 
ing preg­birth cer­nancy was
tificate, 
Marc Weisskopf 131

according nearly 20 
to a study epidemidologist 
times the
presented 
number 
Tuesday. 
who admit­In most ted it on 
states, women are asked 
birth certificates. 

after delivery whether they The study urged the gov­
smoked or drank alcohol 
ernment to stop using alco­
during pregnancy. Their 
hol data from birth certifi­
answers arc listed on birth cates until accuracy can be 
certificates along with 
improved. In 1999, 1 percentrecords of birth defects. 
of women reported consum­But many new mothers lie ing alcohol during pregnan­
about their drinking or cy. answer no because they The National Center for 
think they haven't consumed uses birth
Health Statistics 

enough alcohol to hurt the certificate data to pinpointchild, said Marc Weisskopf. a· nationwide trends on preg­Centers for Disease Control nant women's alcohol use. 
Exposure to alcohol in the womb can stunt growth, harm a baby's memory and contribute to learning prob­lems. 
"One would like to be able to look at alcohol use during pregnancy and ask; Is it higher than we'd like?" Weisskopf said. "The prob­lem is, can you trust the data?" 
Me.dical experts have long known that some women, embarrassed by the stigma associated with drinking while pregnant. lie about or underestimate the alcohol they consume. 
The data have become so flawed that NCHS plans to eliminate the alcohol ques­tion from the standard birth certificate it suggests to states. The change is expect­ed to be made by 2003, a spokeswoman said. 
Weisskopfs study surveyed women in Illinois. Michigan, Indiana. Ohio and Wisconsin between 1989 and 1995. 
The survey also found birth-certificate data under­estimate tobacco use by 20 percent. a figure roughly in line with what other studies have found. 

Looking ror • ran and exclt.lt.n1 on ca•p•s j•• ror t.he 2001 su•­••r session ? •• •··· 
Program Assistant 
in the Student Activities 0:Cfice 


* 
Approxima-tely 7 hours per week 

* 
1 posi-tion is open 


* 
Assisi" in -the planning and implemen-ta -tion of S1"uden1" Ac-tivi-ties sponsored even-ts, including summer music series, facili1y seti.lp and clean up and more 


*Some even-ts you migh1" be working wi-th include summer music series, movie series and more 
Applications are available in the Studen't Activi'ties Office at 315 LaFor'tune. For more informa'tion call 631 -7308. 

Wednesday, April 25, 2001 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page7 
American astronauts 
Pentagon reviews civilian visits 
• Guest programs remain despite fatal Navy collision 
Associated Pres• 
WASHINGTON 

Civilians can still ride in an Army tank, fly in an Air Force fighter or fire a Marine's M-16 rifle. 
The Pentagon barred civilians from being a.t the controls of military equipment in certain situations after the fatal collision between the Navy submarine USS Greenville and a Japanese fishing vessel. But aside from that, the Pentagon isn't expect­ed to substantially change the popular guest programs consid­ered vital to good community relations. 
"It keeps Americans aware of the people who sign up to go in harm's way and serve their country,'' Celia Hoke. director of the Pentagon's community rela­tions program, said Tuesday. 
"People have said it's all about funding," said Navy spokes­woman Cmdr. Cate Mueller of the criticism that the Greeneville trip was aimed at rewarding financial donors. "It's also about hearts and minds -about peo­ple connecting with and know­ing about their military." 
Sixteen civilians were aboard the Greenville when the subma­rine rammed the Ehime Maru, a fishery training vessel for high school students, during a surfac­ing drill Feb. 9 in waters off Hawaii. The crash killed nine people -four teen-agers. two teachers and three crewmen. 
Navy officials have acknowl­edged that the surfacing demon­stration was done only for the benefit of civilians aboard. three of whom were seated at the sub's controls at the time. 
In reprimanding but deciding against a court-martial for the Greeneville's skipper Monday, tho Pacific Fleet commander, Adm. Thomas Fargo, said changes are needed in the com­munity-relations program that led to the civilians being on board the Greenville. 
While he asserted that none of the civilians contributed to the collision, Fargo urged a review o( the Navy's instructions for the program. and recommended that civilians not be at key con­trol stations during critical maneuvers, including rapid­ascent drills. 
Pentagon spokesman Rear Adm. Craig Quigley said Tuesday that all the other ser­vices were also looking at refin­ing rules for civilian programs. In late February Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld ordered civilians indefinitely barred from operating military equipment. including ships, air­craft and ground vehicles,. "when such operation could cause, or reasonably be per­ceived as causing. an increased safety risk." 
The Army, Air force and Marines have essentially adopt­ed that Rumsfeld moratorium as policy. 
The Air Force says civilians can still ride in the second seat of an F -16 fighter, but they are not allowed to touch the panel in front of them as they were before. Civilians can also still fire weapons as long as they are not crew-operated weapons ­those requiring more than one person to shoot. 
"This moratorium is not designed· to restrict civilian visi­tors from observing their mili­tary; it is designed to ensure their visits are conducted as safely as possible," Rumsfeld wrote in his memo. not mention­ing the sub accident specifically. 
The Pacific Fleet had 21 at­sea tours for a total of 307 guests on fast-attack sub­marines like the Greeneville last year, an average of 15 guests per trip, according to Navy esti­mates. Three times as many went to sea on bigger ballistic­missile submarines. Including carriers and other surface ships, the Pacific Fleet had a total of 7,836 guests on 158 trips last year. down from 11,440 guests on 233 trips in 1999. 
Though no overall number of civilian guests is available, the services said they have hmi­dreds of programs that allow Americans· to tour ships, visit bases, participate in training or observe other military activities. The programs are regarded as a way to keep civilians aware of what it takes to keep the armed forces trained and at the ready. 
The premier program, Hoke said, Le; the annual joint program by all the services for what the Pentagon calls "opinion lead­ers." It started last weekend with a Saturday dinner and Sunday briefing, includes meet­ings with senior Pentagon otTI­cials and will take 56 guests to programs provided by each of the services around the country. 
A hospital president, a Wall Street broker, a Girl Scout leader and two city mayors are among the group that learned about paratrooping Tuesday at Fort Bragg. They are scheduled Wednesday to don gas masks and chemical weapons suits at Camp Lejuene as part of the six­stop tour of U.S. bases. 
"It gives them insight, ... a broader understanding, a clear­er focus," Hoke said, adding that it's hoped the guests will go home and spread the word about what they learned. 
The William and Katherine Devers ProHram in Dante Studies 
presents: 
''Dante ­

Johll)~btt 
{tfrUnivers~,;~i,tf!jm Australia 
:ti1~~if~lf;If,~ ursda[t:~pril,:~'6i: ~ 4 :4 5pm 
·:;/\:/ \:::: ·-:..,:\;?\/~;:.. -:-:·· ...·.·· .-,:;::;:;:;$}::::;•:-.:;-.· 
·:=::. ·-·-::::=-----=::·_::::::.. ,~:ir::·-~;;;:;i;'.~'.-jJ~f
~,~¥ft~,~:~r, 

The lecture is frt'e and open to the puhlic. hJr further inhJrmation contact the Devers Program in Dante Studies at (219) 631-5610. 


,..,,.,e;;:'.:;<lili!;iiltce,, Department of Special Collections 
,~,~~!~tr~~~j~jjcl Iesburgh Ubrary 
hook up robotic arm 
of a stack of seven quarters
Associated Pres, 
-could interfere when the next space station piece isCAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. 

attached to that berthing

For the second time this 
port in two months. "There

week, two space shuttle 
are going to be a lot of dis­

astronauts floated outside 
cussions about that in the

Tuesday and hooked up 
coming days because it is a

cables that sent power 
concern," said John Curry,

coursing through the 
the lead station flight direc­international space station's tor. 

new 58-foot robot arm. 
Hadfield also had trouble

To NASA's relief, removing a video signalEndeavour spacewalkers 
converter from the packingScott Parazynski and Chris cradle for the robot arm. He

Hadfield managed ti, get 
turned
both power t h elines work­

"It took a little longer and release
ing, after 
bolt 26

slaving we sort ofwent into extra 
times, 15over cable 

innings, but we came out t i Ill e S
connec­

ahead in the end." m o r e
tions. 
than he
"Hip, hip. 
was sup­
hooray," 

Phil Engelauf 
posed to,the space­

shuttle flight director and still
walkers 

cheered when the backup power line came to life. Applause filled the room at Mission Control. 
Only one power routing is needed to operate the robot arm, a billion-dollar. two­handed construction crane that is needed to finish building the space station. But NASA wanted both lines up and running in case one failed. 
That wasn't the only prob­lem during the spacewalk, which lasted 7 1/2 hours, an hour longer than planned. 
A connector came apart in Hadfield's hands after he removed an old radio antenna from the space sta­tion, and the cap floated into a berthing port. He could not reach the piece. "If only there was someone out here with long arms," he said. 
Later. the petals of the port were opened one by one. in hopes the cap would float out. "Lilce a lot of things in zero-g, it's drifted off into some inaccessible corner and won't come out until it's ready," Hadfield reported. 
NASA officials said the metal cap -about the size 
the con­
verter would not come off. He had to give up on that, too. 
During a spacewalk on Sunday, Parazynski and Hadfield installed the robot arm on a temporary mount on space station Alpha. One of the arm's hands let go of that mount Monday and reached over and clamped down on a power and con­trol socket 24 feet away, its base for the next year. The spacewalkers connected four cables at the socket on Tuesday, to provide not only power to the arm but com­puter data and video. 
Power began flowing through the primary routing as soon as Parazynski hooked it up. But the back­up power circuit remained dead until Parazynski and Hadfield disconnected and then reattached the cable hookups on both ends. NASA suspects one of the connectors was not bolted down tightly during a February shuttle mission. 
"It took a little longer and we sort of went into extra innings. but we came out ahead in the end," said shuttle flight director Phil Engelauf. 

fi(:•:•rt lit:::::::::: i.:: -"' ,.,. t, ,. ·•....)i:i!:::::=,_ 
-:-. . -~:: .•··. ·-. -.._·-::, ·-=t?f:;,. 
Wednesday, April 25, 2001 
page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
Bush defends policy on U.S. environment 
WASHINGTON 

President Bush said Tuesday he's committed to clean air and clean water but will "make decisions based 
u p o n 
sound sci­ence, not some envi­ronmental fad or what may s o u n d good." 
B u s h used an awards ceremony for youths taking part in environmental activi­ties to defend his efforts to strike what he caHs a balance on environmental issues against. accusations that his administration is more inter­ested in promoting the inter­ests of landowners and ener­gy developers. 
"Ours is a policy that truly believes that technologies have advanced to the point where we can have economic growth and sound environ­mental policy go hand-in­hand," he said. 
In recent weeks, Bush has endorsed a treaty seeking a worldwide phase-out of 


a dozen 
"We need to be good 

and the
highly toxic 
stewards ofthe land. But environ­
chemicals 
ment. She
and upheld we've also got to 
pledged to
Clinton 
understand that ifwe 

work withadministra­
don't bring more natural Congress in
tion regula­tions requir­gas to the market, we 're assuring 
that what­ing cleaner 
going to have blackouts.,, 

ever the fig-
diesel fuels and engines 
ures ulti­and require­George W. Bush mately ments that President 
negotiated, 
sound science, not some envi­ronmental fad or what may sound good." 
Carl Pope, the Sierra Club's executive director, said Bush has ignored the views of cli­matologists, biologists and the National Academy of Sciences supporting regulating CO2 emissions, tightening arsenic standards and protecting more endangered species. 
"This administration has shown an almost unprece­dented disregard for the opin­ions of' the mainstream scien­tific community," Pope said. "I invite the president to allow scientists to shape his envi­ronmental policy. It would be a very different environmen­tal policy than the one we've seen to date." 
Meanwhile, senators in both parties who control Congress' purse strings rejected many of Bush's budget priorities and told Interior Secretary Gale Norton during a hearing of' the Senate Appropriations Committee's Interior and Related Agencies subcommit­tee that they intend to restore his cuts in reclaiming coal lands and boost spending on native Americans. 
Norton defended Bush's 7 percent proposed cut from this year in spending on nat­u r a l resources 
thousands of businesses report releases of toxic lead. 
But he also has reversed a campaign pledge to regulate carbon dioxide from power plants as a pollutant, with­drawn from a global warming treaty, rescinded new arsenic standards for drinking water and eased environmental requirements on mineral mines in the West. 
An ABC-Washington Post poll Monday showed that only 47 percent of the public approve of Bush's handling of the environment while 52 percent said they favor pro­tecting the environment over economic growth. The poll also said 55 percent of those questioned opposed Bush's proposal to drill for oil and gas in Alaska's Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. 
"We need to be good stew­ards of the land," Bush said Tuesday. "But we've also got to understand that if we don't bring more natural gas to the market, we're going to have blackouts.... We're going io make decisions based upon 
the money 
will be 
spent in 
better coor­dination with state and local governments. 
"I agree with much of your budget but there are a num­ber of detailed concerns," Sen. Conrad Burns, R-Mont., who chairs the Interior sub­committee, told Norton at a two-hour hearing. 
Bush's budget calls for spending $26.6 billion in the next fiscal year. starting Oct. 1, on natural resources and the environment --$1.9 bil­lion less than the current fis­cal year. The House calls for $26.7 billion, while a Senate­passed resolution would spend $29.6 billion. 
West Virginia Sen. Robert Byrd, the Appropriations Committee's senior Democrat, protested Bush's proposal to cut this year's $171 million for reclaiming abandoned coal mines by 27 percent. 
'Tm going to do what I can to stop you," Byrd warned Norton. "You better come up with a better justification than you have so far." 

Cincinnati man charged in riots 
Associated Press 
ClNCINNATl 

In the first indictment for a hate crime during three days of riots in Cincinnati, a white man has been charged with throw­ing a brick through a black man's car window and shout­ing racial slurs. 
A grand jury on Monday indicted Craig Carr, 20, on a charge of ethnic intimidation for throwing the brick on April 12 during riots in black neigh­borhoods elsewhere in Cincinnati, prosecutors said. The rioting followed the. fatal shooting by police of an unarmed black man. 
Carr, of Cincinnati, also was indicted on charges of criminal damaging and aggravated menacing. If convicted, he could face up to two years in prison. 
Carr has no listed telephone number in the city or suburbs and could not be reached for comment Tuesday. 
In Ohio, ethnic intimidation -the state's ''hate crime" ­cannot be charged as a sole offense, but can be attached lo other criminal charges to bring a stiffer punishment, Hamilton County Prosecutor Michael Allen said. 
Allen said last week similar "hate crime" charges could be brought against black -youths already charged with rioting, looting and assault if he obtains evidence that those offenses were done to intimi­date white people. Prosecutors are examining subpoenaed television news tapes to try to identify black youths who pulled a white trucker from his cab and beat him, Allen said. 
On Friday, Allen announced 63 indictments on charges committed during the riots. 
THE NANOVIC INSTITUTE FOR EUROPEAN STUDIES ANNOUNCES ITS 2001 RESEARCH GRANT RECIPIENTS 
Undergraduate: Teresa Becher (Austria) The Blood Libel Cult of Anderi von Rinn and its Role in Contemporary Austria 
Brendan Geary (Ireland) 
Segregated Education in Northern Ireland: The Psychology of Education. Violence, and Society 
Michelle Petersen (Belgium) 
European Integration 
Krista Schoening (Spain) 
El Ejido: Tensions caused by immigration 
Daniella Zsupan (Hungary) East Central Europe and Russia Research Grant 
The role of lay youth movements in the reestablishment of the Catholic and Protestant Churches in 
post-communist Hungary 
Graduate: 
Tiffany Grade (France and England) Royal Power and Legitimacy: Propaganda During the Hundred Years War 
Edward Hahnenberg (Italy, Germany and France) The Theology of Lay Ecclesial Ministry 
Wendy Schrank (Germany) German Cultural Perspectives of Japan from 1937-1945 
Graduate Fellowship: 
Mark McCarthy (Russia) 
Religious Conflict and Social Order in Late Nineteenth-Century Russia: 
Orthodoxy. The Protestant Challenge, and Sectarianism 1870-1905 
Faculty 
Paula Higgins, Department of Music (France) 
Parents and Preceptors: Authority, Lineage, and Conception of the Composer in Early Modem France 
Robert Krieg, Department of Theology (Germany) Research for his book: (tentatively entitled) Catholic Theologians in Hitler's Germany 
Howard Louthan, Department of History (Germany) Constructing a Cultural Identity: Religion and national memory in early modern Bohemia 
James McAdams, Department of Government and International Studies (England) 
State Intervention in the Internet and Personal Privacy: The Cases of Great Britain, the United States, 
and the Federal Republic of Germany 
HOMES FOR RENT 
2002 -2003 SCHOOL YEAR 

-DO:MUS PROPERTIES HAS 2, 4, 5, 6,71 8.9 &10 
BEDROOM HOUSES AVAlliABLE -STUDENT NEIGHBORSHOODS ·CLOSE TO CAMPUS -SECURITY SYSTEMS PROVIDED -WELL MAINTANED HOMES -MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL -WASHER AND DRYERS 
AVAILABLE FOR THE 2002-2003 SCHOOL YEAR LEASING NOW DOMUS PROPERTIES 
CONTACT KRAMER (219) 298-9673 OR(219) 234-2436 OR (219) 674•2571 
Wednesday, April 25, 2001 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
ISRAEL 
Israel, Palestine honor dead alllid continued warfare 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 

As rsrael honored its war dead with solemn words and graveside remembrances. the radical Islamic group Hamas held a memorial Tuesday for its latest suicide bomber and warned that more deadly attacks would soon follow. 
In Gaza, a Palestinian man was shot dead at the northern crossing point with Israel, the scene of frequent clashes in the past. The family of Yousef Abu Hamdeh said he was mentally ill and had strayed from his home in Gaza City on Monday night. The Israeli military said Abu Harndeh was shot after crossing the fence. 
Earlier. Israel's army said Palestinians fired three mor­tars at a Jewish settlement in the southern Gaza Strip. A Palestinian official, Brig. Gen. Abdel Razek Majaida. said his officers investigated the claim and found it baseless. Palestinian officials have said Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat recently ordered an end to mortar attacks. which have prompted Israeli reprisal raids. 
In the West Bank, a 
Palestinian was shot dead by Palestinian side and 70 peo­Israeli soldiers during clash­ple o"i'l the Israeli side. es. Palestinians said. lmad al­Meanwhile, militant Islamic Shersh, 24, was shot in the groups said they were poised chest while about GO to carry out more bombing Palestinians threw rocks at attacks during Israel's back­Israeli forces, they said. The to-back observances of Israeli military confirmed that memorial day and indepen­soldiers shot and killed a· dence day. Palestinian who was throwing Three bombs .went off in rocks. and said it is investi­Israel on Sunday and Monday, 
gating.  including a  
A  f  t  e  r  suicide  
Palestinian gunmen opened fire on the Jewish  "It is only due to our fallen [soldiers] and their friends that we have  attack in the central town of Kfar Saba that killed  
settlement of  reached this far."  the assailant  
Psagot across  from  the  
from  the  militant  
West  Bank  Ariel Sharon  H  a  m  a  s  
town  of  Prime Minister  group  and  
Ramallah,  an  Israeli  
Palestinian  doctor.  

police were seen arresting Hamas, which held a memo­three gunm!=ln and taking rial rally Tuesday for the their weapons. Palestinian bomber, 18-vear-old Imad security sources said return Zubadi. said recently that 10 fire from Israeli forces of its suicide bombers would reached Palestinian leader strike at Israeli targets. Yasser Arafat's compound. Zubadi was the fourth, and Arafat has ordered a halt to six more were waiting to blow gunfire from inside populated themselves up, said local areas. to prevent civilian Barnas leader Jamal Salim. casualties from Israeli return "Hamas' choice is resistance fire. and military operations, not 
Since the outbreak of the negotiations and security conflict on Sept. 28, 412 peo­talks," Salim told a crowd of ple have been killed on the about 3,000 people in the West Bank town of Nablus. 
In Iran, the leader of Lebanon's Hezbollah guerril­las warned Israel to expect more attacks. "Victory belongs to us," Sheik Hassan Nasrallah told a conference in Tehran that has brought together some of Israel's most militant enemies. 
Israeli police commanders said they would mobilize large numbers of officers in a bid to prevent attacks on memorial day. which honors fallen soldiers and runs for 24 hours beginning at sundown Tuesday, and independence day. which begins at sundown Wednesday. 
Israel closed borders with the West Bank and Gaza for the two-day period. the mili­tary said, a routine security measure. Israel also banned shipments of goods out of the West Bank and Gaza and imposed a sea blockade. The military said the restrictions would be lifted at 2 a.m. Friday. 
"It is only due to our fallen [soldiers] and their friends that we have reached this far," Prime Minister Ariel Sharon said at the main war memorial in Jerusalem. "Even though our enemies still refuse to recognize the right of the Jewish people to their land, (they) acknowledge our might and resolve." 
The families of soldiers killed in the country's five wars and many smaller skir­mishes traditionally visit mili­tary cemeteries countrywide to place flowers and small stones on the graves. Since the United Nations approved creation of the state in 1947. 
20. 906 soldiers have been killed. the military said. 
In the latest effort to end seven months of Mideast fighting, Israel promised to ease restrictions on Palestinian towns in exchange for greater Palestinian efforts to prevent violence. 
The two sides made the announcement Tuesday after a round of security talks near Tel Aviv on Monday night at the home of the U.S. ambas­sador to Israel, Martin Indvk. 
In the security talks, ·the Palestinian representatives · asked Israel to open access to all Palestinian towns, particu­larly the West Bank oasis of Jericho. which depends heavi­ly on tourism. 
Israel's Foreign Minister Shimon Peres said that an easing of restrictions in the Jericho area would begin in the next few days. 
All You Women Independent Throw Your Hands Up For 


4:45-7 Picnic
2-8 Freaky Fotos / 

Dinner
Thursday ~pril 26
Mega Hjts 


Hypnotist in 
;· :;..-!, "/ ­
_,., -\ 
', 8:00 Comedian
2-4 Canoe Races 
on Lake Marion 

Carroll 
3-7 DJ / Bouncy 

Auditorium 
Boxing / Climbing 

10:00 Drive in 
Wall / Giant Slide / 

Movie Charlie's
Caricatures / 

Angels on
Balloon Artist 

Library Green 
Sponsored By Student Activities 80.ard Holy Cross/ N.D. student'i may pick up co-ex tickets at Haggar Ji'ront Desk 



VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 10 BSERVER Wednesday, April 25, 200 I 
THE OBSERVER 
r 0. Bo< Q. Notte Dam<. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Nouc Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
A.'isr. MANAGING EDITOR  
Kerry Smith  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason Mcfarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR, Pat McElwec SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadrer ScrNE EDITOR, Amanda Greco SAINT MARv's Eo1TOR1 Myra McGritT PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGERl Kimberly Springer An DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SY~TEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvcl Chin WEB ADMINISTRATORr Adam Turner CONTROi.i.ER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR• Karie McKcnna 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGEllfGENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................63I-6927 ADVERTISING.,...................................631-6900/8840 
obscrvad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR.IAssT. ME....................631-454I BUSINESS OmCE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................63I-5323 
obscrver.obmews. I@nd.edu VIEWl'OINT.................................................631-5303 obscrvcr.viewpoim. I@nd.edu SroRTS ........................................................ 63I-4543 observer.spom. l@nd.edu 
ScENE......................................................... 63I-4540 
observcr.sccne. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS...... ...........631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://obstr1Jer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news. sports, features and opinion columns, as wdl as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associaced Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for
weather for up-to-che 
minute forcc,sts 
weekly srudem reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and races of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
to meer the editors and 
articles published after 
Augusr 199') 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by che students ofrhe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advcniscmen!S, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeicher institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned eclicorials represent the opinion of che majority ofche Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assisranr Managing Editor and departmenc editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of rhe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available 10 all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lerters is encouraged. Lcrrers 10 rhe Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qrmtiom regarding Obsmm·poliritr should Ix direct­ed lo EJi1ur i11 ChiefMil« Connolly. 


The lines outside computer clusters are long nowadays, and the second floor of Hesburgh is beginning to look like a refugee camp again, which can only mean one thing: Finals season is approaching. 
The kind people 
Scott Blaszak
running this 
University try to lessen our plight by 
The Early
granting us two 
Essays
study days next 
week. And this is all fine and nice of them, to provide us extra time to pre­pare for our impending academic gauntlet, but if you don't manage your time effectively, you can wind up spending your study days as a celebrity judge at a Bible Belt bee-beard pageant. 
Trust me. I've been. 
But that was years ago during my freshman splendor, and in the time since those irresponsible days, I've become the most organized and domi­nant student on campus. So much so that pretty women often stop me on the quad and ask, "How do you do it, Scott Blaszak? How do you maintain a 
3.89 GPA as a biochemistry and elec­trical engineering major while captain­ing the lacrosse team and serving as president of campus multicultural squash night?" 
After I get the girl's phone number, I just tell her that staying productive during study days is the key. While other students are frittering their time away with Frisbees and videogames and Chinese finger-traps, I'll be posi­tioning myself for unprecedented scholarly achievement. Here, take a look at what next Thursday holds in store for me. 
5:15 a.m.: Alarm sounds. Hit snooze. 
5:30 a.m.: Alarm sounds. Hit snooze. 
5:45 a.m.: Alarm sounds. Smash it. 
6 to 6:20 a.m.: Wake. Eighty-two jumping jacks. Memorize western civ. flashcards in shower. 
6:20 to 7 a.m.: Breakfast at North Dining Hall. Three bowls of bran. One gelato. 
7 to 9 a.m.: Study for theology exam by reading entire Old Testament, in Hebrew. Draw comprehensive lineage diagram for every man, woman and animal mentioned in Joshua through 
Esther. Commit it to memory. 
9 to 9:30 a.m.: Half-hour respite at the Honors Program office on the sec­ond floor of O'Shag. Only here can I escape the drooling ineptitude of the common student body and talk Nfetzsche with my true peers -those with accelerated intellects and ill-fit­ting clothes. 
9:30 to 11:30 a.m.: Pore over bio­chemistry material as if being whipped by Einstein. Concentrate on intermedi­ate metabolism until ears bleed. Then concentrate harder. 
11:30 to 12:30 p.m.: Trembling from the preliminary symptoms of my week­ly nervous breakdown, collapse onto knees at the Grotto and pray that I will somehow survive my 24 credit hours this semester. Curse the raw competi­tiveness of this cruel academic machine and spiral into a morbid ennui while pondering suicide as the only escape from this futile intellectual masturbation. 
12:30 to 1 p.m.: Lunch. 
1 to 4 p.m.: Continue preparation for honors Latin. Conjugate present tense. Conjugate future imperative. Conjugate subjunctive pluperfect, then the future perfect semi-deponents. Conjugate more. More, dammit, more! 
4 to 5 p.m.: Check e-mail; respond thoughtfully to Alan Greenspan's ques­tions concerning interbank borrowing rate/bundt cake. Decline John Updike's request for laudatory book jacket blurb. Mediate AOL chat room dia­logue between Yasser Arafat and Ariel Sharon, persuade them to adopt a bilateral peace agreement. 
5 to 5:20 p.m.: Minesweeper. 
5:20 
to 6:30 p.m.: Meet with George 

W. 
and explain the commencement address I've written for him. Reminder: As a student, "Dubya" is most responsive to role playing and Pavlovian conditioning. Bring sock puppets and sugar cubes. 


6:30 to 9:30 p.m.: Relocate to my eighth floor Hesburgh study cubicle which I've made my own for the past weeks and furnished with a small library of books, Simone de Beauvoir posters, an espresso machine. a salt water aquarium and a butler. Study for microeconomics final and simulta­neously write English thesis on Joyce's propensity for oversimplification in Ulysses. 

9:30 to 10 p.m.: Study break. Free myself from the confines of my study cubicle by perusing PS 3531 to PS 3535, then retire to Hesburgh base­ment for Skittles and witty repartee with Kelly Siemon. 
10 to 12:22 a.m.: Back to the books. My favorite: chemical engineering. Feeling myself approaching the culmi­nation of scholarship like a parabola to its asymptote. I press onward with schoolgirl giddiness. Calculate tho den­sity of petrothene GA-605. Faster. Carry the one. Faster! Carry the one! 
12:22 a.m.: My cubicle butler inter­rupts me. "You must eat or you will die, sir," he says. "Leave me be!" I shriek, hurling calculators at him. "Please. sir," he continues, handing me a strawberry Pop Tart, "for your moth­er." I cat it so that he will go away. 
12:23 to 2:43 a.m.: Resume study. 
2:44 a.m.: Suddenly it all comes together, a lucid understanding of the universe as all disciplines converge in my verdant mind into one sweet honey-knowledge. I stand with a slow inhale and, basking in my omniscience, begin to jig. 
2:45 to 3:10 a.m.: Notice my butler passed out atop his graduate-psycholo­gy textbooks. "Lazy mammal," I say to myself, and, acting on a wave of com­passion, I complete his entire semes­ter's work in 22 minutes. 
3:10 to 3:30 a.m.: Home at last. My mind is mush as I clean up the shat­tered remains of my old alarm clock and plug in a new one. Unwind to Chopin's Nocturnes and go to sleep after a two-olive martini. Tomorrow I will do it again. 
Scott Blaszak is a senior English major. His column appears every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not rieces­sarily those of The Observer. 
DILBERT 

1-:::=:::::::=:vv=:::~:::::::::-,E----------­

j AAAGH I i 
! N0-0-0-0 IIJ ~-= 

.. 
~ 
Ill ; 
E 
0 
I u 
'6

.....-~--~-;==~---.J.-'-~~11---L....~~---'-'-=:.....:J'-"'--~f 
SCOTT ADAMS 

NO MORE HEY, DON'T DONUT$ EVEN KID FOR YOU. ABOUT 
THAT. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Don't mourn for me. Organize. " 
Joe Hill executed U.S. labor leader 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 
Wednesday, April 25, 2001 BSERVER page 11 
Accountability in 
the treatment of 
•

prisoners 
With more than 2 million inmates then will speak for the prisoners? in U.S. prisons and a new repQrt Where are the witnesses to the documenting extensive abuse in abuses that occur? Shielded from prisons nationwide, the time has public view, and populated largely come to address the urgent need for by the poor, uneducated and politi­greater account­cally powerless, prisons tend to ability in the csc remain hidden sites of human rights treatment of pris­abuse. Ms. Mariner calls on litigators oners. On Friday, For a More and advocates to seek new means by April 27, 2001, which to protect prisoners' righl'i by 
Just and 

the Center for holding prison authorities account­
Humane World 

Civil and Human able for these abuses. Rights will host a The challenge is before us -as conference on this issue involving students and practitioners with a prominent scholars, advocates and commitment to service and to the practitioners. community -to decide what we can 
At the beginning of this year, the do to address this issue. The April number of individuals in the United 27 conference provides a significant States living behind bars grew to opportunity for us to join with local over 2 million. To put this in context human rights advocates and organi­-the US incarcerates a greater zations, national and international proportion of its population than any scholars and experts, government other country except Russia and officials and other interested individ­Rwanda. With the U.S. prison and uals to re-examine the existing jail population tripling in the past 15 mechanisms of accountability years, the r.eality is that facilities are regarding treatment of prisoners. dangerously overcrowded. The rapid This conference comes at a growth of the inmate population has promising time in the development resulted in state prisons operating of Indiana's policies and practices as much as 17 percent above capaci­regarding the treatment of prison­ty, while Federal prisons operate at ers, as the Indiana Legislature is 32 percent above capacity. presently considering a number of 
According to Ms. Joanne Mariner promising reforms. The Center for of Human Bights Watch, one of the Civil and Human Rights has actively scheduled conference speakers, pris­encouraged both the Legislature and oners in the United States suffer the Indiana Department of from "severe overcrowding, chronic Corrections to take steps to foster violence, rampant sexual abuse and accountability in prison conditions. inhuman conditions." Medical sys­Most recently, the Center has suc­tems are overwhelmed; work, edu­cessfully advocated for the creation cation, and treatment programs are of an Ombudsman for Creations to inadequate; extortion and intimida­promote greater transparency, for tion are commonplace. It is estimat­improvement in the treatment of ed that over 13 percent of the gener­supermax prisoners and for greater al prison population suffers from access to prisoners by prison moni­severe mental disabilities, yet prison tors. administrators themselves describe In conjunction with the confer­their mental health programs as ence, the Center will conduct train-• grossly inadequate. ing for prison monitors on Saturday, 
In a ground-breaking new Human April 28, 2001. I would encourage Rights Watch report, "No Escape: all who are concerned about the Male Rape in U.S. Prisons," Ms. treatment of prisoners to attend in Mariner charges that state authori­order to learn the basic skills needed ties are responsible for allowing for effective prison monitoring. You widespread prisoner-on-prisoner will also be given contact informa­sexual abuse in U.S. men's prisons. tion for organizations who are doing The conditions in America's jails and effective work in this area and who prisons virtually ensure psychologi­would welcome your help. cal impairment and physical deterio­The current abusive conditions ration for thousands of men and faced by many U.S. prisoners cannot women each year. be justified. Yet without witnesses 
Indiana alone houses over 20,000 and without a voice, prisoners will inmates in its 24 prisons and jails. continue to be subject to abuse and Indiana also has the unfortunate dis­inhuman conditions. Join us as we tinction of having two maximum consider what can be done to bring control unit facilities -commonly an end to their silence. referred to as "supermax" prisons -For mor.e information or to regis­where prisoners arc placed in soli­ter for either the conference or the tary confinement for between 22 and training for prison monitors. please 
23.5 hours a day. possibly for years. contact the Center at (219) 631-85 5 5 
Another Human Rights Watch or by email at cchr@nd.edu, or visit report on conditions in Indiana's two the conference website: supermax facilities noted that pris­http://www.nd.edu/ oners, many severely mentally ill, -cchr/cvcnts/prisoners.html. "faced physical abuse, including beatings and unnecessary and "For a Afore Just and Humane. excessive use of cell extractions car­World" is a bi-weekly column. The ried out by five member teams of author ofthis cofamn, Michelle guards, macings and placement in Mack. J.D. '99. LL.M. ·oo, is the pro­four-point restraints as punish­ject coordinator in the Center for ment." Civil and lluman Rights at the Notre 
In spite of these and other danger­Dame Law School. ous conditions, many prison authori­The views expressed in this col­ties turn a deaf ear to the prisoners'· umn are those ofthe author and not cries for relief and protection. Who necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Keep rankings in proper perspective 
I would like to offer a few thoughts in Ann Claire Williams is a member of the response to the letter from Benjamin U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Jilek about Notre Dame Law School print­Circuit. Willie Lipscomb is on the bench ed in the April 10 edition of The in Detroit and is nationally known for his Observer. weapons reduction program among inner 
Anyone with an interest in the Law city youth. Andy Napolitano hosts a School is disappointed in the recent nationally syndicated television show on downward trend in the U.S. News & Fox. World Report rating. It is obviously better We sent lawyers to the most prestigious to be ascending than descending in a New York and Chicago firms. We sent ranking widely acknowledged as a state­lawyers to lifetime public service, to busi­ment of quality and prestige. However, is ness, to law firms big and small in loca­it time to strap on a parachute and head tions around the world where they are for the door? Hardly. A little dose of per­eminently successful today. Space pre­spective is in order. vents listing them all. 
Notre Dame Law School has been As the person in my 225 attorney graduating lawyers for over 100 firm who for years headed our hir­years. It is people, not statistical ing effort and as the one currently rankings, who graduate from ~ responsible for evaluating career Notre Dame and enter into the progress for well over 100 asso­practice of law. Notre Dame ~ ciates, I can speak with graduates have spoken vol­~.A absolute certainty on one point: umes about the quality of the While graduation from a "top Law School through their ser­school" influences initial choic­vice and careers. es and opportunities, career 
I need look only at my own success is measured by tradi­1975 graduating class for tional standards of basic intel­support of the proposition. I ligence, creativity, work ethic, am certain that our long term integrity, interpersonal skills, career stories can be repeated excellence and many of the by class after class. In our first other tenets emphasized as year, we barely set foot in the Notre Dame educates a "differ­Law School building. lt was ent kind of lawyer." undergoing its first major reno­Few care five years after grad­vation, so all 120 of us made do uation where you went to law learning torts and contracts in the school or how that law school Winingar Kirsch biology building fared in the U.S. News rankings. (now called Haggar Hall I believe), Everyone who depends on you cares literally amid the gas jets, sinks and whether you possess those skills and marble of defunct chemistry Jabs. attributes necessary to deliver an out­
The library and its contents were prac­standing and superlative quality perfor­tically inaccessible across campus, scat­mance in whatever practice or endeavor tered everywhere and covered in layers you elect to pursue. This is far more of dust and plastic. Thought processes important than any rating. there were always drowned by the The Law School and its administration sounds of jackhammers. It was a mess. must obviously continue their tireless 
When a third of the class went to efforts to retain and protect the advan­London for our second year, it was to tages that Notre Dame's drive toward the one-room basement quarters where for top over so many years has provided. I do several weeks the lights went out regu­not denigrate Mr. Jilek's concerns. larly due to power shortages prompted by But while his point may be well taken, I a British coal miners' strike. Such condi­reject the veiled cynicism and lack of per­tions would not be tolerated by any ABA spective I perceive in his letter. Notre accreditation group today. In those days, Dame Law School is not in a deep down­Notre Dame Law School was certainly not ward spiral or going to the dogs. Let us highly rated by anything then comparable accept the premise that the rankings are to the U.S. News survey. Thankfully, vitally important criteria which deserve things have changed considerably. careful attention and that identifiable 
I appreciate that to current students my problems like poor employment rates long ago experience might sound like a need to .be solved. However, Jet us also verse from Weird Al Yankovich's song put the rankings in context and keep the "When I was Your Age" -walking to larger picture in mind. school without shoes on broken glass and all that. But what happened to those of us Paul Mattingly who had to endure such "terrible" condi­Law School class of '75 tions at an "unranked" school without the Cincinnati, Ohio "amenities" to which Mr. Jilek refers? April 20, 200 I 
Seniors 
Viewpoint is accepting letters for the comment!ement edition. Send them into us as soon as you can! 
observer.viewpoint.l@nd.edu 

page 12 Wednesday, April 25, 2001 
Eat, drink and be merry 
Big date? Parents coming into town? Check out Scenes reviews o 
. Emporium's American fare unimaginative, but still good deal 
By JACKIE OSTROWSKI Scene Wrirer 
For predictable yet delicious fare, the Empori_um in downtown South Bend pleases the palate. The Emporium offers traditional entrees on a somewhat limited menu. There are no surprises here: the meals stick to a typical American theme. 
However. if you and your party aren't looking for particularly adventurous dining but still want a crowd-pleasing restaurant, the Emporium will sat­isfy. 
A spacious, airy feeling fills the two-story dining room, which overlooks the St. Joseph River. The restaurant lacks the almost intimidating elegance of LaSalle Grill or Basil's -its atmosphere is far more casual and laid-back. 
Unfortunately, the informal mood carries over to the service, which leaves much to be desired. On a mildly busy Sunday evening, the wait between being seated and b e i n g approached by a waitress spanned almost 15 minutes. 

The baked brie wheel with French bread ($5.75) is the most unexpect­ed appetizer on the menu. It's a pleasant depar­ture from the usual cheddar 
potato skins 
and mozzarella 
sticks, and a tangy beginning to any meal. Each entree comes with either soup or salad, and a choice of potato, fries, or wild rice, plus unlimited loaves 

Emporium's first courses and provides a welcome 
complement to any meal. a m a i n course, the filet mignon ($18.95 w i t h shrimp scampi) arrives 
w e I I 
cooked, w i t h enough flavor and juice to 
stand on 
its own. It's a generous and succulent cut of meat. Shrimp scampi on a bed or wild rice is a bit salty, but still quite good. 
The fettuccine Alfredo ($10.45 with grilled chick­en) is pleasing, but doesn't excite. However, the 
of freshly b a k e d honey-w h e a t bread, served fresh from the oven. 
The salad could have been poured from a bag, although the raspberry vinaigrette dressing adds an appetizing touch and makes the wads of ice­berg slightly 

THE EMPORIUM 
. 121 S. Niles Ave., 234-9000 
. Hours: Lunch: Mon-Sat, 11 a.m.-3 p.m., Dinner: Mon-Thurs, 5-10 p.m., Fri-Sat, 5-11 p.m., Sun, 4-9 p.m. 
Food: at.at.a\Ca Service: a\a\11: Prices: ·a\a\lla\a\a\11 
Atmosphere: a\a\11.\a\ Overall: 
""" 
The Emporium offers American cuisine in an informal dining atmosphere on two 
redeems . the menu, however. diners should look elsewhere.
floors overlooking the St. Joseph River and the East Race Waterway. 

more palatable. good deal for those wp.o want a semiformal dining Thankfully, the toma­atmosphere and good quality food. to soup of the day For a truly excellent meal and a more daring 

• Malabar spices up true Indian Malabar's curry a flavorful aroma. Another strong dish is the murgh tandi>0r, a Northcuisine in intimate atmosphere Indian specialty of chicken marinated 
overnight in a tangy sauce and baked in a By LAURA KELLY clay oven. Associate Scene Editor The Malabar is a delight for non-meat 
eaters as well, offering a vegetarian platter For those who despair that the greater and an egg curry every day of the week. The Mishawaka area is severely lacking in adventurous platter combines the best of the chefs dish­cuisine, fear not. · es into one complete sampler, a perfect 
While Friday's and Chili's may dominate the clut­selection for those new to Indian food. ter of Grape Road, a closer As with any spicy look into some of South 
Indian CUisine, Bend 's smaller restaurants 
drinks arc a neces­

THE MALABAR 
sity to cool the prises. 
can reveal some pleasant sur­
palate. The Malabar

. 1640 South Bend Ave. 
offers a selection of
The Malabar. located at 

. Reservations recommended: 282-2977 
wines and Indian
.

1640 South Bend Avenue on 
beers. 23, is one of these hidden 
. Hours: Tues-Thllrs, 5-9:30 p.m., Fri-Sat, 5­
the corner of Edison and U.S. 
Mango juice or

1ap.m., closed SLin and Mon 
the traditional lassi yogurt The restaurant is named for 
gems. 
drink are perfect accompa­

Food : a\lsa\laa\laa\1111 
niments to a hot meal, region of India that is leg­
the southwestern coastal 
while a cup of the sooth­

Service: a\a\allaalaa\11 
ing cardamon tea -brewed exotic spices, and the 
endary for its beauty and 
in milk with cinnamon, car­

Prices: 
damon and anisette -is a namesake. 
Malabar's fare lives up to this 
relaxing way to finish the This is traditional Indian 
night. cooking at its best. As is the 
Atmosphere: 
To end the filling meal on custom of South India, the 
"'""" 
a sweet note, try the mango

Overall: ""'""-"
al11llaa\lla'-ala 
sherbet or rice pudding. es for every day of the week. Service at the Malabar is 
Different types of South Indians curries (beef, friendly and prompt, given lamb, chicken or fish) are offered each day, and the that tho tiny restaurant totals only one room. The blend of ginger. garlic and other spices give the Indian decor and soft guitar music create an Malabar serves different dish­
l I I ' ' ' I ' I . I : ... 
grilled chicken is perfectly cooked and a flavorsome companion to the fettuccine. The two dishes arc best when 
o r d e r e d together. 
A dessert of turtle cheese­cake ($2.95). delights, but it's a mere sliver. Also, the chocolate topping can be somewhat overpowering. 
T h C Emporium is a 
authentic atmosphere. 
Occasionally the kitchen staff will even come out into the dining room to offer hints on the best way to eat the dishes and make sure their guests are enjoying their meal. 
Prices are average for this type of dining, ranging from $10.95 to $14.95 for entrees. This puts the Malabar on par with most of the chains on Grape Road, but it far surpasses these competitors in well­prepared and flavored dishes, attentive service and a warm, authentically Indian atmosphere. 
Despite its small size and quiet location. the Malabar's scattering of tables fills up surprisingly quickly on most weekend nights, making it one of the area's best-kept secrets. While the restaurant is not open on Sunday or Monday, try the Malabar during the rest of the week for a spicy Indian treat. 

Wednesday, April 25, 2001 page 13 
A night out on the town 
outh Bend's elegant (and more expensive) dining establishments 
shrimp with galette of Norwegian smoked salmon, to find outside of a larger city like Chicago.
. Basil's offers innovative menu, 
baked polcnta or Wellington of Portabella. Entrecs Featuring both outdoor patio dining in the sum­patio dining in East Race district include Chef Rudy's crab cakes, stuffed rainbow mer and a cigar lounge, Basil's provides its patrons 
trout with Florida shrimp, blue crab By JACQUELINE BROWDER and spinach, pistachio-crusted rack Scene Writer of lamb, or grilled filet mignon. · 
Desserts include a delightful chocolate mousse cheesecake, a
If yo-u're in the mood for superior cuisine, an ele­
flourless chocolate cake and deli­gant atmosphere and shelling out a significant cious creme brulee.
amount of cash, Basil's on the Race is the restau­Each course is attractively present­
rant for you. 

Located at 501 N. Niles Ave., Basil's offers an upscale dining experience in South Bend 's growing East Race enter­tainment dis­trict. 
Boasting a most ornate and creative menu, the ed with an artistic flair, a common feature in most upscale restaurants. Basil's also provides a wine list With 160 choices, as well as 16 to 20 wines available by the glass. 
The ambiance of Basil's is outstanding. With its out for a quick bite to eat. As far as college students
restaurant features Northern Italian, French and 
modern, stylish decor, local artwork displayed on go, Basil's is more suitable for a sixth monthAmerican cuisine, along with several featured dish­
es. the walls and live weekend jazz entertainment, anniversary or (even better) when your parents Basil's exemplifies an understated elegance difficult come to town and offer to take you out for dinner.
Patrons can begin their meals with blackened 
done themselves this
. LaSalle Grill presents gourmet 
month.
food, atmosphere at upscale prices Also worthv of men­tion this moi'ith is the By C. SPENCER BEGGS hardwood grilled New Assistant Scene Eclicor York Strip. Served with a generous por­The LaSalle Grill (ironically located on 115 Colfax tion of New Potatoes Avenue) offers some of South Bend's finest cuisine. LaSalle and smothered Specializing in classic gourmet food, LaSalle Grill with tobacco onions (a presents its patrons with a much-needed breath of perfect name for this culture and class. addictive concoction). the Strip is an· all
Featured dishes are changed often, so dining at around crowd pleaser.
LaSalle will never be boring. Notable on this month's menu is the hardwood 
For those with an grilled New Zealand rack of lamb. Served in a mod­adventurous side, est portion on particularly smooth horseradish LaSalle Grill offers an mashed potatoes, the tender lamb is lightly bathed Italian spiced rubbed in a port wine demi glaze. and roasted breast of Although almost no chef can go wrong with red Indiana duckling served with Manchego
wine on lamb, the chefs at LaSalle Grill have out-cheese, spinach Dauph­in o is e p o ta ­
Photo courtesy of lasallegrill.com 


t o e s • 
Modem American cuisine and a full wine list are offered at the LaSalle Grill, with
Cham­
changing f~atured dishes like this month's grilled New Zealand rack of lamb.
b o r d liqueur . 
Overall, the restaurant prides itself on excellently
and dried cherry jus. Try saying that prepared and presented dishes.
in one breath to the waitress. While the prices may be higp. for the average col-
Of course, no meal is complete 

without dessert. LaSalle Grill has a full arsenal of decadent treats for after the meal. 
Easily beating all others is the raspberry and while chocolate­infused upside­down cheese­cake pyramid. 
If your mouth is not watering from the name of this sinfully delicious dessert, seeing is believing. LaSalle Grill also
C. SPENCER BEGGS/The Ohservsr 
offers a wide
Since 1991, the LaSalle Grill has been a favorite restaurant for 
BASIL'S ON THE RACE 
. 
501 N. Niles Ave. 


. 
Reservations recommended: 233-1300 

. 
Hours: Mon-Fri, 5-10 p.rn., Sat, 5-11 p.m., 


closed Sun.  
Food:  "-'"""' 
Service:  a\faalaaWrt  
Prices:  alalala\  

Atmosphere~ lalalalafl: Overall: aialAafcal­
with areas to social­ize before and after their meals. 
Basil's on the Race provides its cus­tomers with an excellent dining experience. However, you won't find its target clien­tele at an SYR.As fine dining is syn­onymous with high prices, Basil's is no exception. Expect to spend at least $30 per person and sig­nificantly more if you plan to order from the wine list. 
This isn't the restaurant to hit if you're on your way 


LASALLE GRILL 
. 
115 Colfax Ave. 

. 
Reservations recommended: 288-1155 

. 
Hours: Men-Thurs, 5-10 p.m., Fri-Sat, 5­11 p.m., closed Sun 


Food:  a\lsa\laatlaal  
Service:  atlaa\66  
Prices:  alaal.tr.atr.  
Atmosphere: Overall:  -'-'"';alafulsa\l&  

lege st.udent, they are exactly what you should expect from such an establishment. You defi­nitely get more than· what you pay for. 
Atmosphere at the LaSalle Grill is very classy, especially with the Sylvia Ziontz gallery on the walls. The service is wonderful as well, although a bit scattered at times, and the restaurant got a little too noisy when customer flow picked up. 
If you have a reason to celebrate or any reason at all, you will not be disap­pointed with the LaSalle Grill. 
It is a delightful restau­rant -perfect for a date

variety of dessert wine, fine brandies
the South Bend community, featuring fine dining, a cigar salon or night out with the parents.
and cognacs.
and live jazz entertainment at Club LaSalle. 
-------___. 
-------------------------------~--. 
page 14 Wednesday, April 25, 2001
The Observer . SPORTS 
NBA PLAYOFFS 

76ers defeat Pacers 116-98 Experience topples 
Associated Pres• 
Allen Iverson wouldn't let 
Reggie Miller show him up in 
his house. 
Iverson scored a career play­off-high 45 points. including 19 in the third quarter, as the Philadelphia 76ers overcame Miller's 41 points, beating the Indiana Pacers 116-98 Tuesday night to even their first-round series at 1-1. 
Game 3 of the best-of-five 
Eastern Conference quarterfi­
nals is Saturday in Indiana. 
Aaron McKie had 19 points. George Lynch added 16 and Iverson had nine assists for Philadelphia. which finished as the top team in the East for the first time since 1983-84. 
Jalen Rose had 18 and Jermaine O'Neal added 11 points and 11 rebounds for the Pacers, who were down just 61-59 at halftime after getting 33 from Miller. 
Iverson scored 14 of Philadelphia's final 17 points in the third, including the last 10. He drilled a 17 -footer, another long jumper and hit a 3-pointer to give the Sixers their biggest lead to that point. 88-76, with 
1:11 left. 
After Rose hit a jumper, Iverson nailed another 19-foot­er as the sellout crowd of 20,739 at the First Union Center chanted "MVP, MVP" for the league's scoring champion. 
Iverson pumped his fist, raised his arms and cupped his ear, imploring the fans to make more noise before he finished the quarter at the foul line, giv­ing the Sixers a 91-78 lead on a free throw. 
Indiana didn't get closer than 10 in the fourth. Miller, whose 3-pointer with 

youth in Jazz victory 
ejected after a f1agrant foul on Shawn Bradley. 
There was spitting. with Vernon Maxwell of the Mavericks hacking onto the lloor. And there was blood, as Russell was treated for a cut below his left eye after he drew a charge on Calvin Booth's third-quarter dunk attempt. 
Maxwell was ejected late in the third quarter after his second technical. The teams combined for 70 personal fouls, seven individual techni­cals. one flagrant foul and two ejections. 
There also were words exchanged between Mark Cuban, the billionaire owner of the Mavericks. and Jazz coach Jerry Sloan as the teams went to a timeout with 
2:54 remaining. 

Ultimately. however. it was decided by Malone's 10 fourth-quarter points and Stockton's deft leadership with the outcome in the bal­ance. 
The Mailman outperformed Howard down the stretch as the Jazz extended their 90-87 lead to 96-87 with 4:02 to play. Malone hit two free throws and Stockton found Danny Mannin cutting for a layup and a 100-89 lead with 
2:21 to go. 

Utah led 53-41 at halftime and extended the lead to 83­63 with 1 :05 remaining in the third quarter after Russell connected from 3-point range on consecutive possessions. 
The Mavericks answered by scoring the first 10 points of the fourth quarter to trim the deficit to 84-78. 

Associated Press 

Old guys 2. Youngsters 0. 
Karl Malone scored 34 points and Bryon Russell had 24 as the Utah Jazz beat the Dallas Mavericks 109-98 in another emotional contest on Tuesday night, building a 2-0 lead in the best-of-five first­round playoff series. 
The Jazz outhustled, out­muscled and outplayed the Mavericks for three quarters, then held on in the fourth. 
The Mavericks trailed by 20 points late in the .third quar­ter but outscored the Jazz 15­6 over the first six minutes of the fourth. Dallas pulled with­in 90-87 when Dirk Nowitzki hit a 3-pointer and was fouled by Russell. 
He made the ensuing free throw, and the Jazz seemed to be in trouble. But Malone and John Stockton. who scored 17 points in 42 min­utes. had all of Utah's points in a 6-0 run that steadied the ship. 
Michael Finley led the Mavericks with 32 points while Steve Nash scored 20 and Juwan Howard had 17. 
The Delta Center was rock­ing and the intensity on the court was turned up for Game 
2. which came after Dallas coach Don Nelson claimed the Jazz manipulate referees and 
2.9 seconds left in Game 1 lift­the start of the game, midway 
the Mavericks brashly pre­ed the Pacers to a 79-78 come­through the first and to begin 
dicted they could win. back victory, opened the game the second. 
After five individual techni­with a 3-pointer and proceeded Four Sixers -Eric Snow, 
cal fouls were called in Game to hit shots from all over the Kevin Ollie, Iverson and McKie 
1, there were six in the first court. -tried to guard Miller in the 
half alone Tuesday. And five He scored seven straight first half and none could stop 
minutes into the second half, points three diITerent times _ at him. 
Utah's Olden Polynice was 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds muse be prepaid. 
CLASSIFIEDS The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
1428 Marigold Way Northshore  Lakeview 1640 Byron Bright 3  CHICAGO APT. AVAILABLE FOR  Graduating seniors:  
...  TICKETS  Condo Close to ND. 1 Bdrm, 1 balh, LR, DR  bedroom duplex (2000 sq/ft) in gray­stone two flat, enormous kitchen,  MAY THROUGH AUGUST IN LIN­COLN PARK LOCATION. C!-OSE  Looking to sell your apartment fur­niture (beds, desks, couches •  LOST AND FOUND  
& Kitchen include All appl. 1 car  recessed lights, built-in speakers. 2  TOEL  etc)? ND juniors looking to buy.  
garage & large storage closet.  1/2 new baths (Jacuzzi), hardwood  1 or 2 BEDROOMS  Call Nick at 4-4716 if interested.  
4 U2 Tickets 4 May 4, Fri. Before  Condo fees inc. ext. maintenance,  floors, W/0 include. Hi/Elf Furnace  OWN BATHROOM  If anyone finds a tan Eastpack back­ 
Derby, Lexington, KY.  pool, tennis, club house, cable, gas  w/ AC, Deck $2100/mo one year  $780/mo.  Retired ND staffer & spouse wish  pack, please call Chris at 4-0713  
Call 243-1487  heat, water, sewer, trash, water  lease only. 773/472-7775 or  1-312-443-6062 JAIME  to apt. for summer. Reliable, non­ 
heater & waler softener.  800/323-8144 X 640.  smokers, no pets, have family in  
Need one ticket for graduation, calf Mike a 246-9085 for info.  $72,500 Call Doris 255-7862  5-6 BR House, furnished, W/D,  ROOMS FOR GRAD WEEKEND Wild Irish Rose Inn  area. 135 Lakeview dr., Mulberry Fl. 33860 (863) 425-4404 or call  PERSONAL  
Popular location, 10-mo. Lease. 233­ 3mi norttl of campus  our daughter locally at 256-2335.  
Need one ticket to graduation. Price  Oakhill Condo ­4 bdr/3 bath  9947  'brkfst buffet ea AM  Indiana Catholic couple with huge  
negotiable. Call 4-3760  1/2 mile from campus fireplace,  'clean, comfortable & afford­ RETIRED ND STAFFER &  hearts wishing to adopt a child. We  
deck, pool access $99,000/best  Lake living bear Bremen  able  SPOUSE WISH TO RENT APT.  can provide your baby with lots of  
offer. Call Ttm @ 612-802·0285  most pets okay  (2190 277-4303 or  FOR  love and a secure, stable life.  
FOR SALE  new 3 bedroom air, garage, disposal, dishwaher  www.wildirishrose.com  SUMMER. RELIABLE, NON-SMOKERS, NO PETS,  Reasonable expenses will be paid. For more info, please call Rebecca  
'98 Honda Prelude 2 dr. sports  FOR RENT  $950/month page 219-935-7845 or call 546-4430  3 bdrm duplex 501/503 Eddy St.  HAVE FAMILY tN AREA. 135 LAKEVIEW DR. MULBERRY FL  re Lari)' and Cathy: toll-free 1-866­30-ADOPT.  
coupe Greenfivory. 42k miles.  Appliances, W/D  (863) 425-4404 OR CALL OUR  
Excellent condition. One owner. New  EXECUTIVE SUITE: One bedroom  AA adorable 1.5 bdrm. House w/  1 mile from campus  DAUGHTER  LADIES: Take a study break and  
tires. Loaded. Sunroof. ABS. Spoiler  furnished executive suite ­cable &  garage by St. Patrick6spark. 702­ 273-8332 or 250-7080  LOCALLY AT 256-2335  meet guys, make fun of them. or  
Great car. Call 1-4368 weekdays or  local phone, housekeeping included  436-1594.  both with the new ThatGuy! Game.  
277-4605 after 5 pm. Parked in  @ $60/night (foolbalVgraduation  Studio apartment in quiet neighbor­ 1 FEMALE ROOMMATE TO  As seen in In Style, Glamour &  
Stepan Center lot.  weekend rates higher)  Rent for fall semester  hood near Notre Dame. Unfurnished,  SHARE 2-BEDROOM APT.  Entertainment Weekly. Endless Fun!  
(219) 271-6808 or e-mail:  4 bedrooms, 2 full baths,  cable, patio, $330/mo. Plus electric.  W/SENIOR FEMALE FOR NEXT  $9.99 at www.thatguygame.com  
Bu, k Bed/Futon-Fits ND mattress  www.bellelerresuite@aol.com. ND  washer&dl)'er, basement w/ hot tub,  Available June. Telephone 616-687­ YEAR. TURTLE CREEK.  
on top, oouch/double bed on bottom  Alum owned/managed. Near ND.  new lurnance, security system Call  8924  CALL 243-1487  Phil­ 
$175 or best offer. 243-1 366.  277-0636  Find a vintage apartment with hard•  
Studio apartment in quiet neighbor­ Not sure what to do with those old  wood floors and I'll move to  
WOODBRIDGE CONDO 18199 Stoneridge Apt F,1239 sq.  hood near Notre Dame. Unfurnished, cable, patio; $330/mo. Plus electric.  Newly remodeled 5 bedroom house -available to rent for fall semester. 2  WANTED  dorm room items? Will buy refrig­erators. computers, TVs, stereos,  Columbus next year.  
fl. $84,300.3 bedrooms, 11/2 baths,  Available June. Telephone 616-687­ full baths, washer & dryer, huge rec  etc Call B nan at 4-1944  We really need to cross-tain a lot ii  
dining room. living room, kitehen.  8924.  room, security system. Call now to ·  Hoping to house sit or rent your  we plan on finishing the marathon.  
Condo fee $165 per month. Toe  see 277-()636  horne, furnished/unfurnished, until  ROOMMATE WANTED  
Hickey Group-Karen casrelluccio  Looking to snare/sublet summer  summer 2002. Married couple, early  For DC 2001-2002  Graduating Seniors: Looking to sell  
674-1682  apartment. Will be performing intern•  1 br sublet 5/15-8/15. Downers  40s , professional + student, no kids.  Dillon senior going to school in DC  your apartment furniture (beds,  
ship in South Bend May 13 through  Gro11e, IL, w/d, dW, ale, great com­ Call 616.697.5307 or 270 659.0096  next year is looking lor a cool roo­ desks, couches, etc?) ND juniors  
Europe $199 one way. Meidcol  August 18. Non-smoker. (419) 352­ plex, room for 2 people, $890/mo+ubl  mate lo share apartment  looking to buy. Call Nick 4-4716 d  
Carribbean or Central America $250  4136 (timgoodenow@yahoo.rom)  Rachel 312-498•6579  Summer daytime sitter for three girls  CALL 4-0956  interested.  
round trip plus tax. Other world wide  ages 12 to 5. 273-3010  
destinations cheap. If you can beat  Oak Hill Condo for rent. 2 bdnn, 2  Not sure what to do with those old  Murray,  
these prices start your own airline.  bath. A11ailabJe June 1.  3-6 BDRM HOMES  Babysitter, p1el. With own transporta­ dorm room items? Will buy refrig­ Good Luck in Gypsy this weekend. I  
Book tickets on line www.airtech.com  1-765-362-1040  $180 per person, Furn. Summer/Fall  tion, tor two children, 2&6 yrs in our  erators, computers, TVs, stereos,  can't wait to see the play and I bet  
ortollfree (8n)AIRTECH  Ask for John  272-6306  home. Flexible hrs. 2n-1037  etc. Call Brian at 4-1944  you can't wait for sleep!  


page 15 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 25, 2001 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Long ball propels Devil Rays to win against Royals 
ANTOSTAl.2001 
university of notre dame <<SCHEGULE OF EVENTS>> WEONESOav 
ferris bueUer's day off I north quad I 9 pm 
TlJURSOav 
campus bands, troop nd I fleldhouse mall I free sno cones & cotton candy I4 pm laser tag I north quad I sign up at 3 pm I games begin at 4 go till 7 pm slip ·n tide Isouth quad I4 -6 pm karaoke I south dining hall I5 -7 pm acoustic antostal, giveaways during acousticafe I lafun I9 pm 
FRlOav 
breakfast in front of debartolo I all morning moonwalk, bouncy boxing., obstacle course, dj, t-shirt tie dying I fieldhouse mall I 4 -7 pm kgb concert I north quad I 8 pm free glow sticks, t-shirts all week long! ~ 
Associated Press 
Greg Vaughn and Gerald Williams hit two-run homers to hack another strong pitching performance by Albie Lopez as the Tampa Bay Devil Rays came from behind Tuesday night for a 4-2 victory over the Kansas City Royals. 
The game drew just 11,056, the smallest crowd for a home game in the Devil Rays' four­year history. 
Lopez (3-1) allowed seven hits, walked three and struck out four in seven innings. He has worked at least seven innings in each of his five starts and his three victories are half the t1mm's total for the season. 
Williams' homer off Brian Meadows (0-3) erased a 2-0 deficit in the third. Vaughn chased the Royals starter with his team-leading fifth homer after Williams, who went 3-for­
4. singled with one out in the fifth. 
Tampa Bay won for the sec­ond time in six games under new manager Hal Mcl{ae. who waited more than six years for his second chance to lead a club after serving as the Royals' manager from May 1991 through 1994_-
Estehan Yan pitched the ninth for his third save in three opportunities. 
Luis Alicea and Carlos Beltran opened the game with consecu­tive singles off Lopez and Kansas City's first run scored when Mark Quinn grounded into a double play. Joe Handa made it 2-0 with a RBI single in the second. 
Orioles 8, Tigers 3 

Jay Gibbons hit two doubles and two singles as the Baltimore Orioles won consecutive games for the first time this season, beating the Detroit Tigers. 
Pat Hentgen, a former high school star in Michigan, pitched seven solid innings and sent the Tigers to their sixth straight loss. Detroit has dropped -11 of 13. 
The Orioles, who scored 21 runs while taking two of three against Tampa Bay over the weekend, got four runs in the fourth and three more in the seventh. 
Hentgen (1-2) continued to be solid on the mound while his teammates gave him support for a change. The Orioles scored just eight runs during his first four starts. 
Hentgen gave up three runs and seven hits. 
Jeff Weaver (1-4) has given up at least 10 hits and lost in three straight games. He allowed six runs on 11 hits over 6 1-3 innings. 
Brady Anderson led off the game with a double and scored on Gibbons' infield single with two outs. 
The Tigers tied it in the sec­ond when Tony Clark drew a lead off walk and scored on Juan Encarnacion's single. 
The Orioles took command with their four-run fourth, which began when Mike Kinkade reached on an infield single and Gibbons hit a 390­foot. RBr double to left-center field. 
Red Sox 9, Twins 4 
Carl Everett hit a grand slam and drove in five runs as the Boston Red Sox cooled off the surprising Minnesota Twins. 
Minnesota. with baseball's lowest payroll, entered leading the AL Central with baseball's best record at 14-3. A win over Boston, which has the second­highest payroll and leads the AL East. would have given the Twins the best start in the majors since Milwaukee went 17-1 in 1987. 
But they squandered a three­run first inning and fell behind for good on Everett's sixth career grand slam in Boston's four-run second. 
Dante Bichette hit his first homer of the year for the Red Sox, while Luis Rivas and Matt Lawton each hit his second for the Twins. 
Paxton Crawford (2-0) settled down after the first and left after five innings with a 6-3 lead. Tim Wakefield pitched four innings for his second save. 
Mark Redman (1-2) allowed five runs, seven hits and two wild pitches in 1 2/3 innings. 
The Twins, who had the AL's worst record last year. lost for just the second time in 12 games. The Red Sox are 7-2 in their last nine games and 14-6 overall. 
In the first. Rivas homered with one out. Lawton then walked, took second on Corey Koskie's single and scored on David Ortiz's single. Koski-e came in on Torii Hunter's groundout. 
Angels 7, Indians 2 
Wally Joyner homered and Scott Schoeneweis pitched eight strong innings as the Anaheim Angels beat Cleveland 7-2 Tuesday night and stopped the Indians' six-game winning streak. 
Joyner, hitting .154. hit a two­run homer in the fourth to give Anaheim a 4-2 lead, and the Angels went on to break a four­game losing streak. 
Schoeneweis (2-1) allowed eight hits in the first three innings, then pitched 4 2-3 hit­less innings until Ellis Burks and Wil Cordero got two-out singles in the eighth. 

The game helped mark the 100th anniversary of the first game in AL history, when Cleveland Jost in Chicago on April 24. 1901. 
Anaheim took a 2-0 lead in the first, scoring multiple runs for the first time in 57 innings. 
Oavid Eckstein was hit by the fourth pitch of the night from Bartolo Colon (2-2) and scored from first when Darin Erstad doubled over center fielder Kenny Lofton. Two outs later, Troy Glaus singled home Erstad. 
Juan Gonzalez's RBI double cut the deficit in the bottom half and Ellis Burks tied it with a run-scoring double in the sec­ond. Lofton was doubled up at second during the inning and Marty Cordova left the bases loaded with an inning-ending grounder. 
Glaus opened the fourth with a double and scored on Joyner's second homer of the season. 
Anaheim scored twice in the eighth as Paul Shuey made two errors on a sacrifice bunt by Bengie Molina. With runners on first and second, Shuey bobbled the bunt, then threw wildly, allowing Scott Spiezio to score from second, Joyner to go from first to third and Molina to sec­ond. 
Wednesday, April 25, 2001 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
NBA 
Fisher brings solid offense to Lakers 
A.,,ociat~d Press 
Dorek Fisher continues to amaze, even himself. 
H's gotting to the point where his contri­butions on offense for the Los Angeles Lakers arc not only not surprising, they're oxpectcd, as he's providing a potent third option behind Shaquillc O'Ncal and Kobe Bryant . 
It all began March 13, when Fisher played his first game of the season nearly six months after undergoing surgery for a stress fracture in his right foot. and had career-high totals of 26 points and six steals. 
lle's been solidly entrenched in the starting lineup ever since. and Lakers coach Phil Jackson made it clear Tuesday that won't change. 
"He's been playing at an All-Star level for us," Jackso·n said. 
The Lakers were 41-21 when Fisher returned, and 16-5 since, including a 106­93 victory over the Portland Trail Blazers on Sunday in their playoff opener. 
Game 2 in the best-of-five series will be played Thursday night at Staples Center. 
''I'd say he was," O'Ncal said when asked if Fisher was the main reason for the team's turnaround. 
The Lakers have won nine straight since losing to the New York Knicks 79-78 on April 1, when Fisher missed a jumper in the final seconds as the Knicks col­lapsed around O'Neal. 
That hasn't happened often recently, and Fisher was on the mark in Game 1 against the Blazers, making 7-of-10 shots, including 2-of-5 from 3-point range. in scoring a career playoff-high 21 points. 
'Tm taking the shots that I worked on during the summer before the surgery, and during the months leading up to my returning," he said. "The injury really turned into more of a blessing than a set­back. All I could do was catch and shoot the ball. 
"I'm amazed in how consistent I've been able to be under the circumstances. That's why I'm so proud of where I am this year -the consistency, not the num­bers." 
Generally speaking, opponents have backed off Fisher, concentrating instead on stopping O'Neal and Bryant. 
Pretty soon, that's going to change. 
"You have to give Derek Fisher his cred­it," Blazers guard Damon Stoudamire said. "Ho has been injured for six months, and in that period. all he must have done was shoot stationary jumpers. He's conli­dent and knocking his shots down. 
"To a certain extent, our game plan is to let him shoot. But still, you have to get hands up on him. I'm definitely going to play Derek a Jot different. You've got to show him more respect. This is too short of a series to be relying on somebody not to hit shots, so I have to attack him differ­ently." 
That probably won't be the only adjust­ment Portland makes. After losing a 109­94 decision to the Lakers in Game 1 of the Western Conference finals last spring. the Blazers rebounded for a 106-77 victory in Game 2. 
"Wo know what they did," Lakers for­ward Robert Horry said of the Blazers' adjustments at that time. "We're waiting on it, and were ready." 
llorry wouldn't elaborate, but team­mate Rick Fox did, although it took a bit of prodding. 
"They pushed the ball," he said before adding with a laugh: "You know what? I'm not going to tell you." 
Then. he did. 
"I remember Scottie [Pippen] being aggressive, Bonzi [Wells] was big in the post. Steve [Smith] did some posting up against Kobe," Fox said. "These guys one­on-one in that post, they've been prob­lems for us." 
Wells won't be in this series, since he's sidelined with a knee injury. 
A loss in Game 2 would be a near­knockout blow to the Blazers since this is a best-of-five series. 
Smith, who made 3-of-8 shots in scoring 10 points in Game 1, promised to be more aggressive. 

"They took away a lot of my post-ups with their double-teams, and they dou­bled me quick," he said. 
Fisher said the time off between the first and second games makes it a little tough. "I worked a little aggression off, went out to see the Kings last night," he said. 

"Staples Center is the place to be, a lot of winning going on. They handled their responsibility getting out of the first round. Now, we've got to do it." 
The Kings beat Detroit 3-2 in overtime to advance to the second round of the NHL playoffs against Colorado. 


Wednesday, April 25, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
WNBA 
Head coach Prosser 
Swoops injured, out for year 
STUDENT ORGANIZED LECTURE 
Professor Michael Sherry, distinguished historian from Northwestern University, will speak on the topic -­
"DON'T ASK, DON'T TELL'': 
The Great Debate on Gays-in-the-Military 1993-4 
All are invited. Q & A to follow 
Monday, April 30 
7:00 pm Lafortune Ballroom 
back tears. "We kind of

heads to Wake Forest 
Associated Press 
Skip Prosser, who helped turn Xavier into a perennial postseason tournament team, was chosen to replace Dave Odom as head coach at Wake Forest. 
"We are extremely pleased to have Skip Prosser as our head basketball coach," Wake Forest athletic director Hon Wellman said Tuesday. "Skip is not only one of the premier coaches in the game today, but he is an outstand­ing person who will repre­sent Wake Forest University well." 
A news conference to introduce Prosser is sched­uled for 5 p.m. Wednesday at Wake Forest. 
In seven years at Xavier. Prosser took the Musketeers 
Associated Press 
tricked her into weight lifting and for the first time ever.

to the NCAA tournament four times and to the NIT Sheryl Swoopes sat out most "It's devastating." 
of her rookie year in the Swoopes' loss will be felt
twice. 

WNBA to have a baby. She'll league wide. 
Prosser said Tuesday his new home reminds him of 
miss this season with a dam• "It's extremely unfortunate 
aged knee. and a big loss," WNBA presi·
his old one. "That's why I was so 
Swoopes, the league's MVP dent Val Ackerman said. attracted to Wake Forest. It's 
and leading scorer last year. "Sheryl is irreplaceable but a lot like Xavier: small 
tore the anterior cruciate liga­this will create an opportunity school, great academics, 
ment in her left knee during a for other players to step up 
preseason workout Monday and show what they can do."
great program," Prosser said. 
night. A teammate said Swoopes, who spent the 
Swoopes was driving to the night at Methodist Hospital,Xavier was 21-8 last sea­basket when she collapsed to led the WNBA with an averageson, losing to Notre Dame in the floor, screaming in pain. of 20.7 points a game last sea­the first round of the NCMs. 
The team said Tuesday that son. She also led the leagueThe Musketeers won at least 21 games in six of seven sea­Swoopes will with 2.81 
require steals per
sons under Prosser, who 
game and

reconstruc­"There is no question it 
posted a 148-65 record at 
tive surgery added 3.8
Xavier. 
will take longer than this

that will side­assists, 1.06
Prosser, 50, met Tuesday 
line her for season, but we expect her blocked
with Xavier's president, the 
shots and a

Rev. Michael Graham, and 
the season. to be back next season. " athletic director Mike 
which begins 50.6 percent May 28. The field-goalBobinski prior to making his 
Dr. Walter Lowe

Comets, who percentage. have won all Houston Comets physician Swoopes,decision. 
per game as the Comets won the first WNBA championship. 
It wasn't until the following season that Swoopes returned in top shape and started to assert herself along with Cooper and Thompson. Swoopes averaged 15.6 points in 1998. She was third in league scoring in 1999 with 
18.3 points. 
Comets guard Coquese Washington was working out with Swoopes at the team's practice facility at Westside Tennis Club when the injury occurred. 
"Sheryl got the ball at the top of the key," Washington told Houston television station KRIV. "She started to drive to the basket but she never got in the air. She planted her foot and just fell. 
"You could tell the way she was screaming that she was in pain and it was serious. It was not pretty. I've seen people get ACLs before and I've torn my own." 
Knee injuries are becoming more common in the WNBA. New York's Rebecca Lobo missed the last two seasons after suffering consecutive ACL injuries within six months. 
''I'm devastated for her," Lobo said. "After experiencing it twice, I wouldn't wish it on anybody. 
"People don't know why it happens. With most women athletes, there's no contact at all. You're coming down like I was with a rebound or making a jump stop and not ready for something under you to give way. That's why it's so fright­ening." 
four WNBA 
titles, earlier lost former MVP Cynthia Cooper, who retired to coach the Phoenix Mercury. 
"There is no magic dust," team physician Dr. Walter Lowe said, affirming Swoopes would be out eight to nine months following surgery. "There is no question it will take longer than this season, but we expect her to be back next season." 
Coach Van Chancellor was choked with emotion when describing his feelings. 
"I know how much I felt for 
as a person and what she's going through as a play­er." Chancellor said, brushing 
Cooper and 
teammate Tina Thompson all finished in the top 10 in WNBA scoring last season. Swoopes scored her playoff high of 31 points in a 79-73 victory over the New York Liberty that clinched the Comets' fourth title. 
Swoopes came into the league after leading Texas Tech to a 58-8 record in her career and the NCAA national championship in 1993. 
Her first season in the WNBA was delayed by the birth of her son, Jordan, on June 25, 1997. 
Swoopes played in only nine games that year with no starts. She averaged 7.1 points 

Sponsored by the History Department, Knott Hall, the Student Union, the University Standing Committee for Gay and Lesbian Needs, College Democrats and College Republicans 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 25, 200 l 
NBA 

Hornets discourage, dominate Heat in playoffs 
. Miami must turn around 2-0 series to reach championship 
Associated Press 
Seeking to explain the Miami Heat's astounding playoff drubbings at home against the Charlotte llornets, coach Pat Riley pulled out a dictionary 
Tuesday. 
The  word  to  
which  he  turned:  
quit.  

"I seized on the word because it's obvious that's what is on everybody's mind," Riley said. 

"That's what 26· Riley point butt-kickings bring out. It's a rather harsh criticism. but in light of the results of the first two games, you can't blame anybody for using it." 
When asked if his players have quit, Riley said no. But he shared with them the definition of the word, now that Miami has dug the deepest possible hole in the best-of-five series. 
Playing at home, the Heat endured their two most lopsided defeats of the season: 106-80 on Saturday and 102­76 on Monday. The series moves to Charlotte for Game 3 on Friday and ­if necessary -Game 4 on Monday. 
Few who watched the two blowouts figure a fourth game will be necessary. 

But the Heat say they aren't ready to concede, much less quit. 
''There's enough pride and character on this team to bounce back," forward Brian Grant said. "We're going to go up to Charlotte and get a win Friday." 
The pledge sounds a bit hollow in the wake of Miami's miserable perfor­mances so far. But at least give Grant credit for talking to reporters; team­mates Tim Hardaway, Anthony Carter and Anthony Mason declined to discuss the Heat's dire straits. 
"We're asking ourselves how did it get to this," Grant said. "It's hard to deal with." 
The drubbings are especially galling given the Heat's playoff history. They were eliminated by a lower-seeded New York team each of the past three years, which prompted Riley to revamp his roster in a nine-player trade last August with -ouch -Charlotte. 
Now the Heat, seeded third in the Eastern Conference, are on the verge of losing to a lower-seeded team yet again. 
"They've gotten kicked twice -not just beaten, but thoroughly whipped," Hornets guard David Wesley said. "It's frustrating for them. The worst team in the NBA doesn't want to play that way." 
The Heat won 50 regular-season games despite playing short-handed all season, and health woes may finally be taking a toll. Hardaway has been inef­fective on his sore left foot, and Alonzo Mourning is battling back spasms and lethargy 15 games into his comeback from kidney disease. 
But perhaps the biggest problem has been the poor play of Carter, the back­up point guard. The Heat have been outscored by 11 points when Hardaway is on the court and by 40 with Carter playing. 
"Anthony Carter is a guy we believe in who unfortunately right now is experiencing some problems," Riley 
said. 
It seems the Hornets, by contrast. can do nothing wrong. They have a 102-84 edge in rebounds, a 55­23 advantage at the free throw line and have 29 turnovers to 40 for Miami. 
Perhaps most surprising, 
Charlotte has twice topped 100 points against a team that allowed triple fig­ures in only eight regular-season games, an NBA record. 
"This has always been considered one of the hardest-playing, toughest­minded, defensive-oriented teams in the league," Riley said. "What is mysti­fying to me right now is that we have not come close to being that kind of 
team. They have absolutely sliced  us  
up."  
Jamal  Mashburn,  shipped  to  

Charlotte in the blockbuster trade last August, has been the leading scorer in 

both games. He's averaging 25 points in six games against Miami this season. 
''We have no problem scoring, get­ting easy baskets and getting the ball inside," Mashburn said. 
Neither team practiced Tuesday. The Heat met for two hours, and Riley said most of the adjustments needed are mental. 
llis 155 playoff victories are an NBA record, but he's 18-24 in six postsea­
"They've gotten kicked twice -not just beaten, but thoroughly whipped. It's frustrating for them. The worst team in the NBA doesn't want to play that way." 
David Wesley Chartotte Hornets guard 
sons with the Heat and now faces one of the most daunting coaching chal­lenges of his career. 
Only one team Phoenix against the Los Angeles Lakers in 1993 
-has won a best-of-five series after losing the first two games at home. Will the Heat come back? Will they at least make a stand? 
Or will they quit? 
"There are eight or nine definitions," Riley said. "It has to do with abandon­ing a group, relinquishing control, walking away from responsibility. 
"Charlotte has absolutely been mas­terful in how they've played the game, and they have made us look bad. I don't think there's any quit in this team, but we're getting beat so badly it looks like there is." 
WHAT: ALL THE WINGS YOU CAN EAT WHERE: BW3s WHEN: TODAY (WEDNESDAY) 5:30-7:30 FOR: MEMBERS OF THE CLASS OF 2002 sponsored by the class of 2002  

Wednesday, April 25, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXX 
'Pinky' loses game, player 
By KATIE HUGHES Sports Writer 
With the score 20-17, freshman-dominated Stinky Pinky and the Shockers lost the game and one of their key players to Candy Rain. 
Stinky's Mike Pykosz was taken· off the court for an ankle injury in the game and they had to finish the game one man down. 
"I thought it was a good game," said Candy Rain's Zack Sackley. "It's too bad they had to lose their fifth guy. It was a good battle." 
The game was also stopped earlier when Candy Rain's Van Giles broke his nose. "We came through at the end," said Sacklcy. "You gotta give them credit though." "One broken nose, one broken ankle, and five hard core guys," Giles said. 
When we saw that it was a winnable game, it's just frustrating to let it slip away like that, but we'll be back," said Stinky Pinky's Josh Wimmer. 
Please Call us Bosephus beat Da Booty 21-16, 
Round of 16 Bracket 

5 Reasons 
1 
-----.c 

Check Your 
Boat Club Head 
Diaper Dandies 
Freeballers 

8 
9 
-c 
Strategery

Mayhem Nylon
Bosephus 5 
-----I Sttok,:'. 

Candy Guarantee 
5 Degree 
Rain Yerzatility 
13 
4 '---r•o1; 
Majesties NDToday.com All games will be played at Stepan Courts on April 26 KATIE MCKENNA/The OBSERVER 
and are focusing on the next round of bookstore to show what they're really made of. 
"We didn't play up to. our full potential, I think we need to pass the ball better, but it's good to get a win in bookstore," said Bosephus' Brian Ostick. 
Please Call us Bosephus is anxious to take on the high-seeded competition coming up. 
"This is only the second real game we've had. We're ready for a big team to come along, I don't think there's anyone we can't beat," said Bosephus' Pat O'Brien. 
Strategery, made up of sophomores John Joyce, Jeff " Shaggy" Wiltrout, John Barnes, and Joey Hickey, beat Gang Green 21-18, taking con­trol early and never letting it go. 
"We've played together a lot, so we know when to give each other the ball," said Barnes. Hickey's family was there to cheer Strategery past Gang Green. 
"I said they wouldn't get past 64," said Hickey's dad, who graduated from Notre Dame in 1979. "My team never did." 
Bookstore Basketball Results 
April 24 
Candy Rain def. Team 303, 24-22 Diaper Dandies def. Sexual Frustration, 21-14 Verzatility def. Nunc Dimitis, 21-16 Boat Club def. Killer Boots, Man!, 21-14 Freeballers def. OFF THE HEEZIE, 21-15 Project Mayhem def. Ill Tempered Sea Bass, 21-13 Check Your Head def. Team 186, 21-19 5 Degree Guarantee def. Phi Slamma Clamma, 21-17 Strategery def. Gang Green, 21-9 Nylon Strokers def. The Benchwarmers, 21-19 ND Today.com def. TCB Band, 21-15 Majesties def. IRVIN JONES, 21-17 Lazy Boyz de.f Bacardi.com, 21-17 Versatility def. Narnian Thugs, 21-7 5 Reasons Your Girl Left You def. Team 199, 21-5 Please Call Us Bosephus def. Da Booty, 21-17 
KATIE MCKENNAffhe OBSERVER 


Attention Class oC 2003 
Help make your JPW the best JPW EVER!! 
Apply -to be on -the JPW 2002 Commi-tf'ee 
Applications are available on the :IPW web site, www.nd.edu/-jpw and outside the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune 
For more informa"tion email jpw@nd.edu 
or call -the Sruden1" Ac-tivi"ties Office a1" 
1-7308 
Bookstore 
continued from page 24 
bining for nine points. 
"We got away with a lot of offensive rebounds and we'd rather not even have to get them," Ryan said. "We need to execute a little better." 
No. 2 Versatility knocked off No. 31 Narnian Thugs 21-7 behind the hot shooting of Chris Dillon. 
"I felt all right. It was a nice night to shoot since there was no wind," Dillon said. 
Dillon, sporting a shirt that read "I love my game," drained several long range shots to key a 10-1 run that gave Versatility a comfortable 16-4 lead. From there, the second-ranked squad cruised to a 21-7 victory. Former bas­ketball walkon John Hiltz knocked home the game win­ner. 
"Our defense was good today,"' Hiltz said. "We limited their second chance shots and didn't allow them many good looks." 
In other action, No. 15 Five Degree Guarantee and Phi Slamma Jamma faced off under the lights at Stepan hoping to earn a spot in the Round of 16. 
Phi Slamma jumped out to an early 5-3 lead, but Five Degree Guarantee clawed back to take an 11-8 halftime lead behind tho sterling play of graduate student Blake Sanz. Sanz, who scored six first half points, was able to penetrate at will and also drained some big outside shots. 
"We got down 5-2 and then we really turned it up,"' Josh Bilz said. "Blake was scoring for the ladies. They call him the Big Easy because he's from New Orleans." 
Sanz got some help from 
page 19 

teammates Dave Lazar and John Moravek in the second half as Five Degree Guarantee came away with the 21-17 victory. Lazar and Moravek each caught fire in the second half and finished with four points each. 
"I didn't have it yesterday, but I tried to make some big shots today," Moravek said. "My teammates got me the ball in the right place and I was able to knock them down." 
Sanz finished with a game­high eight points. 
"Blake Sanz is as poetic on the court as he is on paper," Lazar said of his Fiction Writing teacher. 
In one of the most physical and competitive games of the evening, No. 4 Majesties sur­vived a scare from unranked Irvin Jones. Majesties led 9-5 in the first half, but Irvin Jones, a team comprised of University employees, used its athleticism to cut the lead to just two at the break. 
"In the first half we really played our game," Corey Hartman said. "I was pleased with our defense and with how we moved the ball." 
Tempers flared in the sec­ond half and the game had to be stopped at one point to set­tle down the players. 
"It was pretty intense out there," Hartman said. "I scouted them last night and we knew it would be a tough game." 
Both teams were clearly taken out of their games late in the contest, but Majesties stepped it up late behind a strong performance from point guard Hartman. 
Hartman finished with six points, including three in a row during one stretch in the second half. 
Sean McCarthy was a force inside for Majesties, tallying a game-high eight points. Matt Wolbeck added five points. 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 25, 2001 
SOFTBALL 
Irish beat Flames, extend winning streak to 23 

ERNESTO LACAYO/The Observer Sophomore secondbaseman Alexis Madrid (shown here In an ear­lier game} became the sixth Irish batter to hit over .300 this sea­son. 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame softball team (41-3) stretched its win streak to 23 with a convincing 8-0 victory at the University of Illinois-Chicago Tuesday evening. The Irish have not lost since dropping a hard-fought 5-4 barn burner against No. 9 Cal State Fullerton in the semifinals of the Kia Klassic on March 18. 
The Irish jumped on the scoreboard quickly against the Flames, putting three runs on the board in the top of the first. Junior Jenny Kriech (Indianapolis. Ind.) rifled a 3-1 pitch into right field to lead off the inning and advanced to second when Danielle Klayman (San Diego, Calif.) reached on an error by UIC first base Jacquelyne Vaca. 
Melanie Alkire (Union City, Calif.) followed with a sharp line out to right field for the first out of the inning. Irish cleanup hitter Jarrah Myers (Carbondale, Calif.) came through with a single to leftfield, allowing Kriech to score while Klayman advanced to third. 
Lizzy Lemire (Irvine, Calif.) then surprised the Flames defense with a bunt that Aguilar fielded cleanly but threw into right field. By the time the ball returned to the infield, Klayman and Myers had scored while Lemire advanced to third base. 
Aguilar was pulled in favor of Alycia Creese and the UIC relief pitcher was able to escape further damage by getting Andrea Loman (Riverside, Calif.) to ground out and Andria Bledsoe (Higley, Ariz.) to fly out. 
Irish starting pitcher Jen Sharron (Agoura Hills, Calif.) walked Edel Layden with one out in the bottom of the first, but immediately induced a double play ball by UIC's Amanda Rivera to end the inning. 
The Irish offense remained quiet over the next two innings while they adjusted to the new pitcher. The Flames, however, mounted a rally in the bottom of the third. Emily Stoddard singled to start the inning, but Sharron came right back to strike out Emily Hallman on a 3-2 pitch. Leyden, who finished two-for-three in the game, then lined a deep double into the right-centerfield gap that might have scored Stoddard, but the UIC second base got a bad jump on the ball and the Irish defense was able to hold her at third base. 
With both runners in scoring position, Sharron got Rivera to pop up a 3-1 pitch for the second out of the inning. The Irish followed by issuing an intentional walk to Stefanie Christofcrson, and the plan worked when Vaca popped up the first pitch she received to end the inning. 
Notre Dame's bats began to come alive again in the top of the fourth. After a Lemire fly out, Loman drew a four-pitch walk and Bledsoe fol­lowed with her eighth double of the season which allowed Loman to hustle all the way around to score. 
Kristin Schmidt (Houston, Texas) took the mound in the bottom of the fourth for the Irish and had an immediate impact. She worked a one-two-three inning with two strikeouts to get the anxious Irish offense back into the batter's box as quick as possible. 
Alexis Madrid (Temecula. Calif.), who became the sixth Irish batter this season to increase her batting average over .300 with a two-for-two performance today, led off the top of the fifth with a single. Two pitches later. Madrid stole second followed by a Kriech fly out. Klayman then lined the first pitch to left­field, but what seemed to be a hit was taken away by a perfect UIC defensive shift. Now with two outs on the scoreboard, Madrid looked destined to be stranded at second base. 
Alkire drew a five pitch walk, though, and Myers followed by earning a four-pitch free trip to first base. Lemire came through with her 29th and 30th HBI of the season by drilling a 3-2 pitch down the leftlield line for a double. 
The final two Irish runs came in the top of the seventh. Kriech singled to leftfield for her second hit of the day, allowing the Irish leadoff hitter to increase her batting average to .403 on the season. Chantal DeAlcuaz (Modesto, Calif.) pinch hit for Klayman and popped the first pitch up to first base. Alkire followed with a single to right, allowing Kriech to move to second base. After Lemire fouled out to third base, Loman stroked her 11th double of th·e season down the leftlleld line, driving in Alkire and Kriech for the seventh and eighth Irish runs of the game. 
The Irish return home for a doubleheader with Toledo at Ivy Field tomorrow, April 25, at 4 p.m. 

The African and African-American Studies Program Cordially Invites You to its 
2001 Festival of African Films 
This is th,· wakh Strphen lfollinl(sheml. Jr. wa~ 

Friday • 27 April 2 0 0 1 
Wf'llrHII( wlu·n h.-.-m·<>untn.-d a drunk tlrivn. Tinw of dt'ath 6:5.5pm. 
4:00 PM 
Friends Don't Let Friends Drive Drunk. 

Lecture • Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
"Globalization and African Cinema" 
Dr. Mbye Cham Professor of African Studies • Howard University 
A Reception will follow the Lecture 
Saturday • 2 8 April 2 0 0 1 
10:00 AM Film-"Flame" 
by Ingrid Sinclair (Zimbabwe)-85 minutes 
12:00 PM Film-"The Africans # 9: Global Africa" 
by All Mazrul-60 minutes 
1:30 PM 

Panel Discussion-"African Identity vs. African­American Identity" 
7:00 PM Film-"Guimba the Tyrant" 
by Cheick 0. Sissoko (Mali) 1995-94 minutes All Events are Free and Open to the Public 
Co-Sponsors 

Anthropology Department • Department of Film, Television, and Theater English Department • Honors Program • Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies • President's Office • Romance Languages Department 

BRIAN PUCEVICH/The Observer Sophomore right-hander Peter Ogllvle pitches against Bowling Green In Tuesday's matchup. Ogilvie gave up six hits and two runs in five innings of work. Notre Dame faces Valparaiso In a doubleheader Wednesday at 4:05 p.m. 
page 21 

1­
Wednesday, April 25, 2001 ­
O'Shaughnessy to continue leading attacks down the
Lacrosse 
The Observer . SPORTS 

I 




I I I I 

i 
I I 
I 
. I 

Crusaders come to South Bend sporting a 20-13 record. The Crusader pitching staff could have problems with the Irish, as they have given up over six earned runs a game. 
Notre Dame looks to contin­ue its nation-leading 15 game winning streak against Valparaiso at 4:05 and 6:05 in a pair of seven inning contests. 
Baseball 
continued from page 24 
held the Falcons to just two hits over the last four innings. 
"Turn Back the Clock Night," at Frank Eck Stadium, with the Irish in retro uniforms, was a hit with the fans, with 826 faithful on hand for the con­test. 


The support of the large crowd did not go unnoticed by the home team. 
"It was great, the crowd," said O'Toole. "They really gave us an advantage." 
The Irish return to action Wednesday with a double­header with Valparaiso. The 


continued from page 24 
Ohio State is known for their physical play. Their size allows them to play very hard and sometimes very rough. In the match, the Buckeyes will be led by junior Kylee Reade who is a member of the Canadian World Cup team that is also coached by Coyne. She is also supported by Celeste Sianfrani and Megan Mirick. 
In response, the Irish will be looking for senior Lael field. Solid play from juniors Natalie Loftus and Alissa Moser has also helped bring the Irish victories. Defensively, sophomore Jen White continues to anchor one of the better defenses in the nation. 
The game will be held at 4 
p.m. in the Moose Krause Stadium. The Irish are unde­feated in their local region with wins over Ohio and Delaware and will hope to continue this record with Ohio State. With games against Rutgers and Syracuse left after the game today. 

the buzz 
Getyourheadtogethe~ Crop it, color it, curl it comb it, chunk it, crunch it. 
Plus get a FREE GIFT with your new 'do.* Redken True 
:t··· 
. 


nat '~ ·, Caltn Chill Sharnpoo-1 0. 1 oz 
any hair care service while supplies last 
spicy, 
pricey 
•

m1a&Maxx 
HAIR STUDIO 
University Park· Mall 219.277.4427 


----------· ­
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 25, 200 I 
NFL DRAFT 
Legree, Getherall and Jones sign pro contracts 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Sports Writer 
Last Saturday and Sunday, 31 NFL teams scoured college rosters looking for the players that would best lit their team. But as soon as the draft ended, the hundreds of undrafted players began searching for the team that best fit their skills and tried to sign as free agents. Three Notre Dame seniors found teams who needs matched their abilities. 
Joey Getherall, Lance Legree and Jim Jones all signed free agent contracts shortly after the draft ended. Getherall signed with Pittsburgh, Legree signed with the New York Giants and Jones was picked 
up  by  the  defending  
Superbowl  Champion  
Baltimore Havens.  

Sometimes signing as a free agent can give a player a bet• ter chance of making a roster as compared to players draft• ed in the seventh and final round, according to a sports agent. 
"You actually may be in a better potential situation as a undrafted free agent," said Joe Flanagan who helped Lance Legree and Jim Jones sign. "I would rather have a player be undrafted and hand pick a Learn if one of the teams you have to chose from is a good team than be pulled into a team that you have no practi­cal chance of making the ros­ter." 
Flanagan said he evaluates every NFL team prior to the draft and makes a list of the best lits for each of his clients. As the draft progresses he reevaluates each team and changes the rankings. During the seventh round. he calls the teams that might be interested in his clients and remind them that his players are still avail• able to be drafted or signed as free agents. 
"Ideally you want to place your players on a team that did nothing but address their need at a position in the sixth or seventh round or did noth-
STUDENT WANTED FOR 
HELP WITH 

ND WEBSITE. 
INFO@ NDNATION.COM 

~-----------~ 
49¢g~~~s
single-sided on e.s• x 11' 28 lb. paper. You'll be amazed by the quality. 
(Qpy SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center 

On the Campus ot !he University of Nohe Darna 
Call 631-COPY 

FREE Pick-Up & Delivery 
See store for details. Coupon required. Hurry -expires 514/01. 
\ Not valid with any other offer or discoun~
'----------­
:•! !l-'l'"'fflfllllf lf,-.• f\\11\llt.tl &,.,ttftJ:11Jt. ,. 
ing," rlanagan said. 
Getherall, who is not a Flanagan client, believes he found a good fit in Pittsburgh. The Steelers did not draft a receiver until the seventh round this year. The Steelers are also .in the hunt for a punt returner and Gctherall showed considerable skill at returning kicks for the Irish this year. 
"I got picked up by a good team and I like my situation," Getherall said. "Hopefully everything_goes well and this will be a good place for me." 
Flanagan is pleased with Jones' and Legree's placement as well. 
"In Lance's case and in Jim's case, it couldn't have worked out better," he said. 
Baltimore was ranked very highly on Jones list and expressed interest in the Irish guard before the draft even ended. 
"Baltimore needed a guard and they didn't draft one," Flanagan said. "Plus he is reunited with [former Irish offensive coordinator] Jim Colletto. There ended up being a lot of intangibles and practi­cal advantages to Jim going to Baltimore." 
Flanagan only rated the Giants the sixth best team for Legree but when New York lost defensive tackle Christian Peters to free agency, the Giants stock rose. rlanagan originally thought the Indianapolis Colts were one of the best fits for Legree, but the Colts signed Peters. 
"That negated their need in our mind of an undrafted free agent defensive lineman," Flanagan said. "Frankly you are fighting an uphill battle for a roster spot when they have invested money in a free agent like that so it wasn't a good fit." 
But the Colts' gain was the Giants loss and suddenly a spot in New York opened for Legree. 
Legree signed a three-year contract with New York while Jones signed a one year deal. The length of Getherall's con­tract was not released. 
Since undrafted free agent 

TEACHING AND RESEARCH ABROAD!!! 
Announcing The Fulbright Competition for 2002-2003. 
All first year students, sophomores and especially juniors interested in Graduate Study Abroad, don't miss the informational meeting with Professor Andrew Gould 
Wednesday evening, April 25, 2001 at 6:00 pm in room 136 DeBartolo 
Lance Legree (shown above playing against Purdue) and Joey Getherall (shown returning a kick at right) signed contracts to play for the Giants and Steelers, respectively, in the 2001-02 NFL season. 
. 

photos by 
ERNESTO LACAYO and ELIZABETH LANG 
contracts -or any other NFL contract -are not guaran­teed, the length of the deals are more a reflection of a team's personal preference rather than an indication or talent or potential for making a roster, according to Flanagan. 
"They are just technical details regarding the proration 

Goodspeed, who is fighting for a roster spot with New Orleans, John Merandi and Tim Ridder, who both play for the Colts and the Bears' Brad Williams. They are also the agents for Irish senior Dan O'Leary who was drafted by the Bills in the sixth round. 
Both Flanagan and Leshnock are Notre Dame graduates. 
of the signing bonus but the signing bonuses for undrafted free agents are so insignificant that it really isn't an issue," he said. 
Flanagan and his partner Brad Leshnock run BTI Sports Venture. 
They serve as agents for sev­eral different Notre Dame alumni including Joey 


Wednesday, April 25, 2001 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
TYLER
TOM KEELEY 

THINGS COULD BE WORSE
FOURTH AND INCHES 
WHATELY 
Are ~ou supposed 
..> 

-to o.~t'I fo<' rno'f\ey Be.He.I" so.-fe. "tno.D or ,~ 1tjubt 1r-1p\1ed? sorr~··· tha.t'~ wh'j 
I put ',\.

\ ;;;-~ do\lM () ~ , Q SH)rl5 o.l\ ovir rnne. 
'­
BILL AMEND

Fox TROT 
T\iE CATCHER HAS To BE ot,1 THIS S10E. oF THE 8.\CICSTo?, J'.A'SON. .........__ 
~
I G)
I 11 J 
I 
'-\I, 
I s 
~ 
II 
l 
I 

i
. 

Graduation Announcement Etiquette 

. ,: :,-. :i:-, ,,.:::Jt¥,::~0t 
.WDffllR'I·
~~1111.,,, c!!!.sn..·..··••.•s·'',·.·•At.se~}~.'~•.:;>t.iGil.t
:\<

Wl :;.:,,-;'"·· :' 3,~;}111/iw '• 
-., .._·:···..,: ...·:···, .::&:: ··H·,·:i~r:··::1it':.:J;=:_Jt 
'.•..,iDta•11i••···. 
,YS. ·.·.•·/~·~·~,,t> 
. ~•,:,AA 

f~
Toledo alp~fa 


:~1!:iir~HI0:!r;£T,4JE . · 
t~f\/:::•t··: ;:··:"·/:'·\::'' . '' •· ,·:'":,:::1
Doublehi€iderC;: 1·;i~t;f4; i·N. 
4PM
....

dlllllJliea
4PI11:· 
~:'~/,'~' :i 
MoosiKRAF!sE 
lvv Field F ·. 
. !ELD. 
Te>dczy, vV'"edr1.,esdczy A_priZ 2..5r:h 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Get rid of 50 "The Seduction 1 What this puzzle wrinkles of Joe Tynan• is designed to 32 Not be brave star elicit 53 Departed a
33 "Primal Fear" 

4 N.H.L. sheikdom?
star 

Northeast 55 Natalie Cole hit 
34 Operetta

Division player " Love•
princess and 

9 Chap 56 Certain com chip
others 14 Fun, for short 57 Italy's _ di
35 Southern dish Pisa15 "Tt'at is to say 37 Turnarounds, 58 Salon jobinformally 

59 Side in a debate '="1-+--i..--+-----t....-­
16·like a nerd 
38 Clone 60 Visual putdown17 Bubble maker 39 Arag6n article 61 Pig_18 "Enough rain 

already!"? 40 Astrological chart divisions DOWN
20 Tax chart divisions 41 Hosp. areas 1 Sheik, e.g. 2 Child ol fortune? 
22 Addles 42 Mountain resort famous for its 3 Places for spare 
23 Certain frosh breath mints? parts, maybe24 Noodle 4 Some pitches 45 Kind of rock 25 Dress lor the 5 It multiplies by desert? 46 Free-spoken dividing28 Infantile 47 As part of a 6 Licked
outburst company 
7 Chorus lrom the sidelines ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 8 Abbr. in a business letter 
Puzzil by U.nny ~lily
9Con's 
P O A _.,.,....,...,.. A S E misfortune 29 "There _ free 44 Eau _, Wis. 49 •Just for the lunches" heck
45 Page of music 11 At the home of 30 "Steppenwolf' 50 Elvis's middle 
47 Romeo
author
12 Biblical herd name
introducer? 
13 Selects, with 33 Vast tropical 51 Two-piece?
"for" region of South 48 Home of the 52 Too-tooUniversal Postal America19 A whole lot 
Union 54 Elevs.
21 Stylish 35 Baum's good witch
24 Very dry, as wine 36 Firm loundation 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 25 Enliven, with 40 Major upset are available by touch-tone phone: 
"up" 42 Engines with 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). L O U -=+::+:e+.-1-:-:-1 26 Hot blood oomph Annual subscriptions are available for the M E R r:-t-::+:~ P L Y 27 Hand-holder? 43 With tantaras best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 A M E .................._ S E X 28 Fast result? galore years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): THIS DAY: Hayley Mills, James Relationships will be serious. Woods, Eric Roberts, Conan You can make a long-term com­
O'Brien, Melody Thomas Scott, mitment to the one you love. Melissa Joan Hart, Rick Moranis Plan a quiet romantic evening 
Happy Birthday: Think about for two to discuss your future it. Oioose your projects carefully intentions. 000 and do them well instead of say­LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22):ing yes to everyone and doing an Don't let yourself get run-down. imperfect job. It will be hard for Expect to have problems with you to pass on some of the proj­co-workers or employers. Stick ects being offered, but if you set to your own work and be care­attainable goals, you will receive ful that someone doesn't try to much greater rewards. Your take credit. 000 numbers: 3, 14, 17, 25, 29, 31 SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):" 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your plans to improve yourselfDon't let colleagues back you into physically will result in a posi­a comer. You will have to learn to tive mental outlook. Use your say no if you don't want to be discipline to accomplish your taken for granted. You will have personal goals. 00000 
excellent ideas for getting work SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): done more efficiently. 000 Say as little as possible and don't TAURUS (April 20-May 20): become involved in other peo­One-sided romantic attractions ple's affairs. Concentrate on 
are probable. Try not to wear your your work. Someone you care heart on your sleeve. Jealousy and about will be erratic and eager to anger will mount if one of your pick a fight. 00 friends steals your thunder: 00 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Communicate with your mate. Don't be confrontational. You'll Pleasure trips will result in a bet­ineet opposition if you try to ter understanding of your rela­
push your ideas on others. Be tionship and your commitment to observant and save your com­one another. It's time to put your ments for another time. You need priorities in order. 0000 to focus on your career. 00 AQUARIUS Qan. 20-Feb. 18): 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't hesitate to become Your interest in philosophy and involved in a new business ven­history will spark a greater inter­ture. Partnerships will be favor­est in travel and foreign cultures. able, and you will come up with Look into the possibilities and talk sound ideas. Your greatest limita­to people who have taken jour­tion will be yourself. 000 neys that interest you. 00000 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Profes­Don't blow situations out of pro­sional opportunities are apparent. portion. Your need to use emo­Go after your goals, ask for a raise tional blackmail will only cause or sign new contracts. You can more discord. If you put your 
develop a good working relation­energy into physical outlets, you ship with others if you are willing will avoid confrontations. 000 to share your ideas. 0000 


r---------------------------------------------­

All tied up 
Iverson an the 76ers defeated 
the Pacers 1 I 6-98 to tie the first 
rowzd NBA playoffseries at 1-1. 
page 14

PORTS 
O
THE 

page 24 BSERVER Wednesday, April 25, 2001 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXX 

Five Reasons, Versatility move to Sweet 16 round 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
Senior ScaffWriccr 
As the weather cooled down Tuesday night, Bookstore Basketball 

.--XXX heated up as teams were leaving it all on the court hoping to earn a spot in the Sweet 16. 
The night's early See Also action closely resem­bled the preliminary '"Pinky' loses 
rounds as No. 1 Five 
game, player"
Ileasons Your Girl Left You and No. 2 page 19 Versatility cruised to easy victories. However, the late games provided a glimpse of the com­petitive play to come as the field con­tinues .to narrow. 
Five Reasons Your Girl Left You took advantage of its size and quick­

ness to make quick work of unranked Team 199. rive Reasons jumped out to an early 10-2 lead on Kevin Muempfer's patented "Show it and Keep it" fast break layup. After tak­ing an 11-3 halftime lead, Five Reasons continued its stellar play in the second half and cruised to a 21-5 win. 
"They were a smaller squad but thoy upset the No. 32 seed," said four-time Bengal Bouts champion Pete Ryan, who scored three points. "Kevin played great, Paul IRaih] was getting all the rebounds and both Dan's [Reidy and Lustig] really hus­tled. We're playing well together." 
Reidy led the way with six points, including the game winner. Irish Guard members Raih and Lustig cleaned up on the glass while com-
see BOOKSTORE/page 19 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 

Irish lax join nation's top 20, voted 18th in country 
By ANTHONY BISHOP 
Spores Writer 
Women's lacrosse joins the other five spring sports at Notre Dame on their respective top 20 polls. The 18th-ranked lrish (8-4) earned their first spot on the 
polls since the beginning of the program. 
Sixteen of Notre Dame's 22 varsity sports have been ranked this year. 
"We really are excited about the 

ranking and grati-Coyne fied at seeing our hard work paying off," said fifth-year Irish head coach Tracy Coyne. "Earning our first national ranking marks is another step for the pro­gram in our goal of becoming one of the elite programs in the country." 

The Irish defend their ranking and host their biggest rival today against Ohio State. The match at Moose Krause stadium will be the second of a three-game home stand for the Irish who lost to fifth-ranked Georgetown on Sunday. 
Notre Dame has a steady rivalry going with Ohio State. 
"[The two teams have] been playing since the beginning [of the program]. They have beaten us to the last two years but we're confident it stops there," said Coyne. 
The Irish have never been in a bet­ter position to do so as they go into the game with momentum and moti­vation to get to the playoffs. 
see l.ACROSSE/page 21 
Hurlers dominate in Irish victory against Falcons 
By JEFF BALTRUZAK Assistant Sports Ediror 

It was the nation's top bats against the nation's top pitchers Tuesday night at Frank Eck Stadium, and in the end, the men on the mound emerged vic­torious. 
The Notre Dame pitching staff, owner of the country's best ERA, held Bowling Green's hard-hitting lineup to just a pair of runs in a 5-2 victory. 
The Falcons entered the game with a national best .359 batting average, but were befuddled by the pitching of righthanders Peter Ogilvie and Matt Buchmeier. 
Ogilvie was handed the ball for his first start and three weeks, but was able to hold 
.._ Bowling Green to six hits in five innings of work. "I was a little rusty," said Ogilvie. "l had trouble with my command of my fastball, but my teammates really picked me up." That pickup came in the form of stunning fielding plays by the Irish, including several highlight reel plays by senior shortstop Alec Porzel. "I can't say enough about the defense. they played great," Ogilvie said. The Falcons could never rev their offense into high gear, and did not score after the third inning. 

"They hit some hard balls," 
said Irish catcher Paul O'Toole. 
"But then our pitchers started 
taking advantage of their weak­
nesses." 

Falcon pitcher Kyle 
Knoblauch spent a better part 
of the early innings looking over 
his shoulder watching Irish hits 
go by or watching his pitches go 
past catcher Tim Newell. 
Freshman Steve Sollmann 
grabbed the team lead for 
homeruns with a two-run jack 
in the bottom of the first, scor­
ing teammate Steve Stanley. 

The Irish kept the rally going 
in the first inning, with singles 
from Kris Billmaier and Brian 
Stavisky. Stavisky then scored 
on a wild pitch for the third run 
of the inning, advancing 
Billmaier to second. 

Third baseman Andrew Bushey then capped off the Irish scoring with a first-pitch single . up the middle to score 
Billmaier. 

Stanley and Sollmann teamed 
up again to score the final Irish 
run. Stanley had a one-out sin­
gle, and then LOok off for second 
to steal his team leading 23rd 
base of the season. 

Sollmann then stepped in, hit­
ting out of the second spot. and 
drilled a double to right center. 
easily scoring the junior 
Stanley. 

The late innings would be 
dominated by Buchmeier, who 
see BASEBALL/page 21 
Softball Men's Lacrosse Football at Kalamazoo vs. Harvard Blue-Gold Game
SPORTS 

Today, 3 p.m. Saturday, l p.m. Saturday, l :30 p.m. 
ATA 

Women's Lacrosse 

Women's Tennis 'llrli Men's Golf vs. Ohio State M' at Big East Championsihp at Alma
GLANCE 

Today, 4 p.m. 
Saturday, l p.m. Saturday-Sunday 




