! l­
., 
Down and out In honor of Justin Brumbaugh
Movie critic Jefferey Irish says Chris Organizers ofa Knott Hall basketball tourney 
Thursday

Rock's new comedy film "Down to hope remember a former resident this year by Earth·· goes down the tubes. 
urging campus-wide participation in the event. 
FEBRUARY 22, 

Scene . page 12 
News . page 3 
2001 

By BRIGID SWEENEY 
News Writer 
The Robinson Community Learning Center 
(CLC) will provide a forum for learning and build­

!
I·: ing bridges with the South Bend community, said ' . speakers on hand for the center's grand opening Wednesday.
' 
j "It is important to focus not on the negative aspects of an area, but the positives," said Indiana third district Congressman Tim Roemer as he addressed community members and CLC staff. "This will be a place of new energy, light and hope." 
The center offers services geared toward all age groups, ranging from tutoring and music lessons for grade school students to health screenings and Internet classes. The Gigot Center for Entepreneurial Studies also sponsors the Northeast Neighborhood Business Incubator at 




The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary-s 
VOL XXXIV NO. 93 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

Community Learning Center celebrates grand opening 
the CLC, which pairs aspiring entrepreneurs in the community with an undergraduate or MBA student mentor. • 
University President Father Edward Malloy emphasized life-long learning in his remarks to the crowd. 
"One is never too young to learn, just as one is never too old to do so," he said. "This center will bring together people who deserve a warm con­text in which their God-given talents can be developed. whether they be small babes or post­retirement." 
In order to help fulfill the center's mission of encouraging cooperative learning within the community, over $500,000 was spent on renova­tions and new equipment. The computer lab boasts·21 new computers connected to the Notre Dame server, complete with wireless Internet. 
Center director Jay Caponigro stressed the sig­
see CENTER/page 4 




Just call her Madame President 
Norton prepares to accept duties, history-making role as Notre Dames first female student body president 
By JASON McFARLEY Associate News Editor 
A memory: It is a cold February night in the days prior to Notre Dame's 2001 student body presi­dential election. 
In between leading Student Senate meetings, studying and running an ambitious campaign for student body president, Brooke Norton makes her way from her third-floor Walsh Hall room to the nearby Grotto. She lights a candle, and amid thought­ful prayer and reflection, the cur­rent student body vice president, considers the University's name­sake -Notre Dame du Lac, trans­lated "our lady of the lake." 
"I was thinking about Mary as the patron of our school," she said. "I kept wondering if the time was right for a woman to take the top leadership role at Mary's uni­versity." 
The answer came just days later -and some three decades after the University first admitted women -when Norton was elect­ed Notre Dame's first female stu­dent body president. 
Norton and running mate Brian Moscona emerged as the clear leader in a six-way primary race on Feb. 12. and on Friday the pair captured 56 percent of run-off election votes, defeating the Ryan Becker-Nikki McCord ticket. 
Norton's victory makes her the first vice president to win the presidency since Dennis Etienne succeeded to the post of president in 1973. 

ties with current duties, it may Student Reactions 
And while her election signals also mark the beginning of chal­Students are generally pleasedthe end of what Norton admits 

lenges for her over mixed student 
was an exhausting balancing act expectations and personal reser­see NORTON/page 6

of juggling campaign responsibili­vations. 


STUDENT SENATE 
Members consider election deadline, parietals measure 
By LAURA ROMPF 
Assistant News Editor 

The Student Senate extended this year's dead­line for the election of class officers from March 1 to March 3 Wednesday at the request of John Bauters, Judicial Council's vice president of elec­tions. 
Bauters said candidates would not have ade­
quate time to campaign, .and the J~~icial Counc~l. 
would have a difficult time comp1hng ballots Ii 
the elections had to completed by Thursday. 
If the deadline was extended, he said, the pri­mary election for class officers would be held \'\'ednesday with a run-off on Friday. 
Carroll senator Jessie Flores said the senate could amend the constitution if the election bylaws were changed first. Flores asked to pass an amendment which allows the senate to change bylaws after petitions are handed out, but only with a 3/4 vote. ,. 
"This is a temporary solution to the problem, Flores said. "We have a situation we didn't have the foresight for ... We must handle this with efficiency and practicality." . 
After passing the amendment which allowed the senate to change election bylaws, the senate unanimously extended the deadline. The class officer elections will be held next Wednesday and Friday. 
Sorin Hall senator Kevin Berchou and St. Edward's Hall senator Seth Whetzel informed the senate that a referendum on extending pari­etals would also be included in next week's elec­tions. The referendum asks whether to make parietals later than _12 a.m. on_ weeknights and earlier than 10 a.m. m the mornmgs. 
"There were many different groups working on 
the parietals issue and this is th~ culmination o.f communication between these different offices, · Whetzel said. "A lot of work has been down and hopefully changes are on the horizon." 
Student body vice president Brooke Norton 
see SENATE/page 4 
/ 


page 2 

The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, February 22, 2001 
INSIDE COLUMN 

THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Thursday Friday Saturday 
Sunday



Thankyou ••• 
. Theatre: "The Winter's . Meeting: Saint Mary's . Event: "Feistang Filipino . Concert: Notre Dame 
My mom is a firm believer that angels enter our lives to help us wade through rough waters. I never took her seriously, until now. 
This weekend was hell. I found myself in the all too familiar surroundings of Saint Joe's ER. 
The majority of the ordeal remains a blur. I was hooked up to machines and dealing with a mixture ofother drugs and professionals. But out of the haze, one young man went from being anoth­er passing face to someone whom Iknew by name ­just because he took the time to care. 

This was a person who wasn't being paid and more than likely was nameless to others in the high paced ER. He was there because he wanted to be, and it is he to whom I attribute my current hospital discharge status. But unfortunately, his shift ended before I was discharged, leaving me unable to thank him. 
To the young man who left worrying about all the bad things he witnessed that evening: know that the world is a better place because you take the time to volunteer. Realize that you will be a great doctor because you take the time to care. 
To the young man who stole a sticker for me, thank you. Sometimes stickers offer a relief to pain that no other drug can claim. 
To the young man who offered my worried bud­dies candy and coloring books as they waited in the waiting room, thank you. In that one action, you gave them more than just a coloring book. You calmed fears and reassured hope. 
To the young man who asked me if I wanted a drink and remembered that I said yes, thank you. 
To the young man who asked questions instead of assuming, I admire your ability to grasp knowl­edge. Through listening to your patients, you will learn timeless lessons that cannot be taught in textbooks. 
To the young man who wasn't scared to attach a personality to the patient: thank you for allowing me to be a person instead of just another medical file. Thank you for allowing me to become your friend, and thank you for becoming mine. 
Thank you for being yourself. and for not allow­
ing the overwhelming aspects of medicine to over­
shadow life's little miracles. 

Thank you to the young man who was "just doing his job." You warmed my heart in the cold­est room, on the coldest bed. just by being you. It makes me smile to know that you would have done it for anybody who walked into the emer• gency room. It makes me proud to know you do it for patients everyday. 
And, most importantly, to the young man who made me forget about how miserable being in the hospital was -I thank you. Your kindness and compassion gave me the strength to grow stronger and heal. I will never forget you, and I will pray for your continued success and happiness.
.. 
I have learned that beautiful and giving people are all around us. Humanity becomes visible through the thoughts, words, actions and deeds of those special souls. The unselfish givers of love and of themselves -they spread joy wherever they go and inspire other to follow in their foot­steps, multiplying those angels who walk among us. 
Recalling my weekend, I realize how much worse it could have been. Mom was right: some­times an angel enters when we least expect it, and our lives are touched forever. This young man is living proof. 
Thank you, my angel. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those o/The Observer. 

Kelly Hager 
Copy Editor 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene Jason McFarley Matt Nania Colleen McCarthy Graphics Courtney Boyle Katie McKenna Sports Production 
Katie Hughes Jeff Baltruzak Viewpoint Lab Tech Pat Otlewski Tony Floyd 
The Observer (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction righu arc reserved. 
Tale," 7:30 p.m..  Board of Trustees.  
Washington Hall  Stapleton Lounge  
. Lecture: "Santos:  . Film: "Remember the  
Yesterday and Today,"  Titans," 7 p.m.• Carroll  
Charles Carillo, 7:30 p.m.,  Auditorium  
Snite Museum  

VII," 7 p.m., Stepan Center Collegiate Choir, 8 p.m.. 
. Theatre: "Twelve Angry Basilica of the Sacred Men," 8 p.m., Moreau Heart Seminary Auditorium . Tournament: 3rd Annual 
Justin Brumbaugh Memorial Tournament. 8 a.m., Stepan Center 

OUTSIDE THE DOME Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Fraternity return to LSU stirs controversy 
BATON ROUGE, La. 

As Kappa Sigma fraternity recruits new members to restart th~e chapter at Louisiana State University, some students are con­cerned the old chapter's ways will resurface, damaging the reputation of the greek community and the uni­versity. 
However, other students believe the fraternity earned the right to start fresh with a new group of recruits and a more dedicated national chapter. 
The university suspended the fra­ternity's recognition as a student organization in March 1998 after issuing several violations at its annual barnyard party, including cruelty to animals, hazing and underage drinking. 

According to that student, McMorris said when the women 
NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY 
Accused spy attended NU 
An FBI veteran accused Tuesday of spying for Russia graduated from Northwestern's business school and listed his Russian language skills on his application, Northwestern University officials said. Robert Philip Hanssen, a 25-year veteran of the FBI, received his MBA in accounting and information services in 1971 from NU's Graduate School of Business, now called the Kellogg Graduate School of Management. He is accused of spying for more than 15 years in exchange for $600,000 in cash and diamonds and $800,000 placed in an offshore account. Hanssen, 56, was arrested Sunday night in suburban Virginia after he dropped off documents for his Russian handlers, gov­ernment officials said. FBI agents found $50,000 hid­den nearby that they say was intended for Hanssen. Hanssen attended NU twice, said Vice President for University Relations Alan Cubbage. In 1966 he enrolled in the Dental School but dropped out in 1968. The next year he entered the Graduate School of Business and graduated in 1971. 
LOCAL WEATHER 

arrived at the party, the fraternity brothers wrote words such as "pros• titute" and "whore" on their faces and led them down a hall covered in pictures from pornographic maga• zines. 
"It is absolutely astounding to me that such a thing happened, but it did," she said. 
McMorris said a 1994 attendant of the annual barnyard party con­firmed that writing on women's faces and cruelty to animals are tra• ditional parts of the party. 
Karon Kristensen, Panhellenic adviser, said these stories are not true. 
"There have been so many stories that have manifested themselves," she said. "If that had happened I would know." 
OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY 
Student's murder trial continues 
Shannon Haynes, a 30-year-old defendant, is being accused of the raoe and murder of Kara Parrish, a 20­year-old OSU stulent. Haynes could get the death penal­ty if convicted of murder. According to Haynes. Parrish died accidentally during consensual, rough sex. Amanda Milliron, an Ohio State junior, said she and Parrish began attending OSU in September 1998, their freshman year. They took Spanish classes together. In her court testimony, she said that Parrish met Haynes late that year. Milliron said after finals one quarter, Haynes invit­ed her and Parrish to his apartment, at 1608 Summit St. to make margaritas after having a couple of beers at Woody's, a campus bar. Milliron said one time she invited Haynes to a basketball game when one of her friends became ill and couldn't attend. She also said Haynes would always send postcards to her when he went to "far off' places such as the Florida Keys and Hawaii. Milliron said the postcards were always invita• tions for her to meet him wherever he was. "None of us knew he was married or that he was 29," she said. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 


•e •
STATIONARY 
50  39  
57  41  
30  24  
,78  62  
34  26  


Thursday, February 22, 2001 

The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Carrillo to lecture on santero art 
By MARIBEL MOREY 
Assistant News Editor 
Hidden just below the lobby of the Snite Museum, several figures of saints in deep reds and blues stand within clear cases. Just because these san­tos (saints) were created before 1848 and are now in a museum does not mean the art is just part of history. 
Charles Carrillo, noted san­tero, author and anthropolo­gist, will present a lecture today at 7:30 pm in the Snite. After explaining some of these pieces, a workshop and demonstration on creating a santos will follow on Friday at 
2:00 pm. The series is called "Santos: Yesterday and Today, Devotional images in 18th-, 19th-and 20th-century New Mexico." 
The art of santero has exist­ed for almost 400 years with­in the Hispanic culture of New Mexico. These works of art have connected deeply with the Catholics in the area. 
"From village churches to private chapels to the sacred moradas of the-Penitente Brotherhood, the works of 

individual santeros have pro­"There weren't a wide variety vided generations of New of colors available to each Mexicans with inspiring sym­artist." bols of a shared identity and Since color was not plenti­faith, and a collective hope for ful, artists had a very limited the future," wrote Carmella palette; thus, many of these 
Padilla, vice presi­dent of the Spanish Colonial 
A  r  t  s  
Society.  
As  a  

saint­maker, Carrillo will be able to present the Notre Dame com­munity with more insight on its own col­1e ct ion, including the impor­tance of color. 
'it key figure in this new generation of santeros is Charlie Carrillo, a man whose reverence for the art and the history behind it has helped elevate what was once considered a folk art form to a fine art form.,, 
Carmella Padilla vice president, Spanish Colonial Arts Society 
santos exhibit less variety of colors. This New Mexican collection includes 12 santos in two groups, six bultos (painted sculpture). six retablos (paint­ings on wood). 
Unlike many artists who keep 
their  artistic  
secrets  to  them­ 
selves,  Carrillo  

enjoys to share his wisdom. He could be selling more art, but instead. he teaches people about the history of the art. 
"A key figure in this new genera­

"The color both captures the eye of the observer and the colors are very tradition­al." said Douglas Bradley, curator of arts of the Americas, Africa and Oceania. 
Got news? 
Let us know. 
, 
Call. 631-5323. 
tion of santeros is Charlie Carrillo, a man whose rever­ence for the art and the histo­ry behind it has helped ele­vate what was once consid­ered a folk art form to a fine art form," wrote Padilla. 
hursday, February 22 
5:00 p.m.-6:00 p.m. Romance Lan­
uage Department's Italian Coffee Hour, Decio 131 
7:00 
p.m. SUB Foreign Film: ''IL Postino'; DeBartolo 155* 

7:00 
p.m. Coach Muffet McGraw lecture, Dillon Hall Chapel 


7:30 
p.m. ND Boxing Club's "Bengal Bouts", Preliminary rounds -Joyce Center Fieldhouse 

7:30 
p.m. Visit by Charles carrill at the 


nite Museum of Art, Annenberg Audito­rium 
7:30 
p.m. Play: "A Winter's Tale", by William Shakespeare, Washington Hall* 

7:30 
p.m. O'Neill King of Hearts contest, 'Neill Hall :00 p.m. NAACP Relationship Forum ith Nick Childs & Denene Millner -


Lafortune Student Center Ballroom :30 p.m.-10:30 p.m. Open Rec La­rosse, Court 1, RSRC :30 p.m.-Midnight ND Express Billiards ames open, Lafortune Student Center :00 p.m. Acoustic cafe, Lafortune 
Student Center Huddle 
10:00 p.m -Midnight Stepan Center: pen Play Basketball and Volleyball 
10:30 p.m. Movie, "Best in Show'; DeBartolo 101* &"The Matrix'; DeBartolo155* 
Friday, February 23 
7:00 p.m.-10:00 p.m. Open Rec Badminton, Court 2, RSRC 
7:30 p.m. Play: "A Winter's Tale", by William Shakespeare, Washington Hall* 
7:30 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, ''It's All True'; Snite Museum* 
8:00 p.m. Movie, "Best in Show", 
DeBartolo 101* & "The Matrix'; DeBartolo 155* 
8:00 
p.m. Celebration of "carnaval" ­Brazilian Music and Dancers, Lafortune Student Center Ballroom 

8:00 
p.m. Play: "Twelve Angry Men", Moreau Seminary Auditorium* 


8:07 p.m. 807 Friday Night Mass, Morrissey Chapel 
8:30 p.m.-Midnight ND Express Billiards games open, Lafortune Student Center 
9:00 p.m.-11:00 p.m. Open Skate, Joyce Center Ice Rink* 
9:30 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, "It's All True'; Snite Museum* 
10:30 p.m. Movie, ''Best in Show", DeBartolo 101* & "The Matrix'; DeBartolo 155* 
This ad is compiled and published by the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune Student Center. 
Annual tourney honors deceased ND student 
By LAURA ROMPF 
Assistant News Editor 
Justin Brumbaugh loved bas­ketball. As a senior living in Knott Hall, Brumbaugh would gather groups of boys, walk to Rolfs and shoot hoops. But one day, the basketball games stopped. 
Sitting in the computer lab in the then-College of Business a spark," said Ben Gilfillan, Knott Hall's other Brumbaugh co-commissioner. "We're just getting this going." 
Price and Gilfillian hope the tournament will serve as prac­tice for teams interested in competing in Bookstore Basketball. They hope to have an A and B bracket for the men, consisting of 16 teams each, and a one 16-team bracket for the women. 

Amninistration, Brumbaugh died from complica­tions of an enlarged heart. 
In honor of Brumbaugh, Knott Hall annu­ally sponsors a three on three basketball tour­nament with all 
"You can't start a fire without a spark. We're just getting this started. " 
Ben Gifillan tournament commissioner 
"We still need to get a few more teams to round out the tourna­ment," said Price. 
Teams can consist of up to four members 
and there is a
requested $15 donation from 

proceeds going to Habitat for each team. Trophies and T­Humanity. shirts will be awarded to the 
"Justin was person who was winners and sign-ups will con­involved with Habitat for tinue through Friday. Humanity in his hometown and Meyer said he has seen the when he came to Notre Dame," tournament grow over the past 
said Brother Jerome Meyer, three years. rector of Knott Hall. "It was his "The tournament started out favorite charity that he gave slow, first just within the Hall," service and we think it is a fit­Meyer said. "But it's amazing 
ting monument for him from that now it has spread to be campus wide. We're hoping to
the hall." 
The tournament is in its third have 40 to 50 teams this year." year and in the past has con­Meyer said he hopes the tour­sisted primarily of Knott Hall nament will keep Brumbaugh's 
teams. memory alive. "Our only goal this year was "Justin was a very calm, to incorporate the wider cam­directed person," Meyer said. ...
pus community," said Brian "He had his goals set high 
We want to make this donationPrice, Knott Hall's Brumbaugh to Habitat for Humanity in his

co-commissioner. "You can't start a fire without memory." 
Saturday, February 24 
6:00 p.m. Men's and Women's Swimming -Shamrock Classic, Rolf's Aquatic Center 
7:00 p.m.-10:00p.m. Fiestang Filipino 
VII: A Night of Fine Filipino Culture & Cuisine, Stepan Center* 
7:30 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, "Touch of Evil~ Snite Museum* 
7:30 p.m. Play: "A Winter's Tale", by William Shakespeare, Washington Hall* 
8:00 p.m. Movie, ''Best in Show~ DeBartolo 101* & "The Matrix'; DeBartolo 
155* 

8:00 p.m.-10~00p.m. Flipside Ice Skating •.-... · , 
-JACC, Gate 3  · tsr, ~  
8:00 p.m. Play: "Twelve Angry Men'',  · ,  ·.  
Moreau Seminary Auditorium*  
8:30 p.m.-Midnight ND Express Billiards  
games open, LaFortune Student Center  
9:30 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, "Touch of  
Evil': Snite Museum*  
10:00 p.m.-1:00 a.m. Flipside Games &  
Movies Night, Center for Social Concerns  
10:00 p.m.-4:00 a.m.  Stanford Hall 3rd  
Annual "After Hours Benefit Bash", Alumni  
Senior Club*  
10:30 p.m. Movie, ''Best in Show';  
DeBartolo 101* & 11The Matrix';  
DeBartololSS*  
*Denotes admission charge for ND/SMC  
students  
Programs are subject to change without notice.  


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 22, 200 I 
ships that bind communities." Caponigro said that the
Center 

center was being dedicated in continued from page 1 the memory of Renelda 
Robinson, a noted neighbor­nificance of personal rela­hood leader. tionships at the Center along "She was a woman whose with the importance of tech­presence in this community 
nology. continues to "We place touch the lives of crucial impor­"Together, the people," he said. 
tance on fun­people here will "She is the 
d amen ta l example after
realize something 
human inter­whom we model
about themselves our work."
action skills, in addition to the and about others." Four genera­latest techno-tions of 
1 o g i cal Robinson's rela­
Jay Caponigro

advances," he tives were pre­s a i d CLC director sent for the cer­'Together, the emony, which 
people here included a spe­will realize something about cial blessing and an anti-vio­themselves and about others. lence skit put on by children They will learn through the affiliated with the CLC in process of listening and addition to the several building respectful relation-speeches. 
Like to -write? Write for us. Call 1-5323. 



more." ate member to the Campus Life Council. 
Senate 
In other senate news: . The Student Union Board 
continued from page 1 . At the senate's February presented nominations for 
14 meeting, the Residence Life next year's officers: Paul said the referendum does not Committee announced that St. Krivickas as board manager, mean action must be taken by Edward's senator Kathleen the administration, but stu­Seth Whetzel was Hammond as
"Ifstudents 1Jote
dent input is crucial for elected co-chair director of pro­change. of the committee. the way we think gramming, "The numbers will show a . Meg Julian they will. we could J' a c q u e I y n lot," Norton said. "If students was unanimously Gelzheiser as
see change.··
vote they way we think they approved as a director of oper­will. we could see change." member to the ating, Gabriel 
Berchou said the senate did Judicial Council Brooke Norton Brownas direc­not want to put specific times Executive student body vice president tor of creativity or days on the referendum in Council. and Melissa
on parietals
case negotiations had to . Andrew Kane as chief occur. Oxenreiter was controller. "The victory is going to nominated as 2001-2002 . The senate approved 
come on the assistant Student Union trea­Jennifer Wolf as Student weeknights," Berchou said. surer. Union treasurer and Katie "We'll see if we can win this . St. Edward's senator Seth Hogan as assistant Student battle before we take on Whetzel was elected as a sen-Union treasurer. 

Fresh-baked Cini--minis for just 99c. Maximum taste. Minimum price. 
Got the urge?'" The irresistible taste of Cini-minis. 
Wednesday, February 21 .. 7:30 p.m. Thursday, February 22 ... 7:30 p.m. 
Whether it was the smell or the great cinnamon taste that lured you in, after one bite you'll soon Friday, February 23 ............. 7:30 p.m. Saturday, February 24 ... 7:30 p.m. 
realize that the only thing small about our delicious Cini-minis is the price. 
Playing at Washington Hall • Reserved Seats $16 
The Huddle, Lafortune 

Seniors $14 • All Students $1 2 
Student Center 

Tickets available at LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631 -81 28. 

ATION 
Thursday, February 22, 2001 

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES 
page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 

Clinton relative returns money 
Brazil inmates end prison riot: 
Rebellious inmates in a Brazilian penitentiary released seven hostages on Wednesday, ending a riot that began one day after police quelled the biggest prison rebellion in the nation's his­tory. The latest uprising broke out Tuesday when six prisoners at the Pirajui Penitentiary, 210 miles northwest of Sao Paulo, over­whelmed guards in the exercise yard and forced them to open the prison's cells, the Sao Paulo state prison administration department said. 
Kenya priest to import AIDS drug: 
Expanding an international campaign to make AIDS drugs affordable in the poorest nations, an American priest who works with HIV-posi­tive orphans in Kenya said Wednesday he planned to import cheap, generic medicines from India. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

Oregon law helps end lives: As Oregon reported that 27 terminally ill people used the state's assisted suicide law to end their lives last year, one of the state's senators urged the Bush administration Wednesday not to do anything that would thwart the unique statute. "There is no evidence of a crisis that would compel the federal government to pursue extra­ordinary means to overturn Oregon's law," Democrat Ron Wyden wrote to Attorney General John Ashcroft, amid indications that some Republicans may try again to undo the law. 
Energy groups release wish list: 
Getting the jump on Congress and the Bush administration, energy industry groups released a wish list Wednesday that pleads for more oil and gas drilling on public lands and greater reliance on nuclear energy. "Economic efficiency. energy security. energy technology and regulation and incentives are the four core principles we believe a sound national energy strategy should be anchored by," said Barry Worthington. the U.S. Energy Association's executive director. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 

Government delays time zone resolution: Prospects for the adoption of daylight-saving time in Indiana appear to be dimming. Lawmakers haven't even been able to reach a consensus on a compromise measure that would explore moving the state from the Eastern to the Central time zone. Members of the House Public Policy Committee on Wednesday postponed voting on a resolution that asks the federal government to study whether all of Indiana could move to Central time. 
Market Watch 2/2 2 
Dow 

10,526.58 -204.30
]ONES 


Composite
Same: 

Volume:
177
ill NIA 

Nasdaq: 2,268.94 -49.41 

S&P 500: 1,255.27 -23.67 TOPS VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) -2.63 19.62
.1 1.82 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -3.62 -0.94 25.12 NASOAQI00SHAR(QQQ) -2.81 -1.. 9 51.50 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -0.54 -0.13 23.00 INTEL CORP (INTC) -2.19 -0.69 30.75 
. Brother-in-law received bonus for pardon help 
Bill Clinton's brother-in­law received about $200,000 for successfully lobbying for a pardon and a prison commutation that the former president granted on his last day in office, The Associated Press has learned. The money has been returned. 
Clinton and his wife, Hillary Rodham Clinton, said Wednesday they were unaware of the arrange­ments with Hugh Rodham. They said they had asked him to return the money and were "deeply dis­turbed" by what had hap­pened. 
Rodham, brother of Mrs. Clinton, returned the money in the past 24 hours, sources familiar with the arrangement said Wednesday. 
The sources, speaking 
on condition of anonymity, said Rodham was paid for months of work on the prison commutation request of Carlos Vignali and received a "success fee" for helping win the pardon of Almon Glenn Braswell. 
"Yesterday I became aware of press inquires that Hugh Rodham received a contingency fee in connection with a par­don application for Glenn Braswell and a fee for work on Carlos Vignali's commutation application," the former president said in a statement. 
"Neither Hillary nor I had any knowledge of such payments. We are deeply disturbed by these reports and have insisted that Hugh return any moneys received," he said. 
A source close to Clinton, speaking on con­dition of anonymity, said then-White House adviser Bruce Lindsey had been contacted and was aware of Rodham's involvement with the Vignali request 
but no White House offi­
cials were aware of the 
presidential relative 's 
involvement in the 
Braswell matter. 

The decisions on both men were made on the merits of their situations, the source said. 
The Braswell pardon has generated controversy because after it was granted on Jan. 20 it was disclosed that the busi­nessman was under inves­tigation on new allega­tions. 
Justice Department spokeswoman Chris Watney declined comment Wednesday. 
Braswell did not apply for his pardon through the Justice Department, while Vignali applied for his commutation through the department in August 1998. Watney refused to say whether Justice rec­ommended that Vignali be pardoned. 
In the Vignali matter, numerous political figures lobbied to commute his drug sentence, including a 
Roman Catholic cardinal. 
a sheriff and community 
leaders.· 
The outpouring of sup­port and the fact that Vignali was a first time drug offender who got a long sentences were the key factors in the commu­tation, the source close to Clinton said. 
White House officials were told the Vignali fami­ly would be helpful in rehabilitating him and keeping him from getting in trouble again if his prison sentence was ended, the source said. 
The Braswell pardon has generated controversy because, after it was granted, it was learned the businessman was under investigation by authorities in California. 
The source close to Clinton said the White House asked the Justice Department to conduct a criminal background check, did not know of the ongoing inquiry and was told the check found noth­ing negative. 

LEBANON 
Students march on U.S. embassy 

Associated Press 
BEIRUT 

Security forces used water can­nons and batons to drive back hun­dreds of students marching on the American embassy Wednesday, protesting the bombing of Iraq and 
U.S. support for Israel. Officials said at least 12 people were lightly injured. 
About 500 students, most from Lebanese University, tried to march on the fortified compound in Aukar, a hilly suburb north of the capital Beirut, but were met by about 200 helmeted riot police swinging batons and backed by rifle-toting army troops atop armored person­nel carriers. 
At a roadblock about 400 yards from the compound, the demon­strators shouted "Death to Israel" and "Death to America!" Large banners denounced Israeli Prime Minister-elect Ariel Sharon and President Bush as "two faces of the same terroristic coin." 
Part of the group tried to charge through an adjacent orange grove, but a Civil Defense fire engine standing by quickly aimed its water cannon and sprayed the crowd, pushing it back. 
A woman protester who identified herself as Zeinab claimed police hit her on the shoulder with a baton. "Traitors! Traitors," she shouted at the police. 
The demonstrators dispersed after about two hours. 
U.S. and British warplanes 
attacked Iraqi radar installations Friday. Iraq officials said two peo­ple were killed and 20 wounded. 
The Pentagon said the attack was meant to thwart Iraq's improving capability to target U.S. and British planes that patrol a no-fly zone they set up over southern Iraq after the Persian Gulf War. 
But the raid drew widespread condemnation, some of it from key 
U.S. allies in the Middle East and Europe. 
"They call us terrorists, but the Americans are themselves the world •s biggest terrorists and what's happening to the children of Iraq is the proof." said Zahra Haidar. an 18-year-old university student. 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 22, 200I 
Norton 
continued from page 1 
with Norton's win and with the place it cements for her in Notre Dame history. 
Dillon Hall senator Brendan Dowdall 
s a i d Norton's position as vice presi­dent legit­imized her as a presi­dential candidate. 

" I Norton thought she was the best qualified for the office. As vice president, I'm sure she gained a lot of experience in working with University administrators and other student government offi­cials," said Dowdall, a senior. 
He said Norton's gender did not play a role in his decision to vote for her, but other stu­dents said gender was a deter­mining factor. 
Sophomore Erin Harridge said electing a female student body president was an impor­tant step for the University. 
"Before I voted, I considered the gender of the candidates," she said. "I thought voting for Brooke would move us in the right direction." 

Harridge expressed some concerns, however. about Norton continuing the same programs and services as the current administration. 
"Looking at her as vice pres­ident now and as president in the future, it seems like Brooke's presidency might only be a continuation of the current one," Harridge said. 
Dowdall did not share her doubts. 
Norton's own concerns 
Harridge's worries are noth­ing Norton hasn't heard before. 
"Many people may think that everything's going to stay the same, but there are going to be changes," she said. 
Norton said she plans to keep current programs that have proven successful and implement innovative new ideas. She said the Office of the President only has one year to make significant changes, and she is at an advantage because she can continue working on present projects and add new ones. 
"There's still a lot of things that we need to improve in student life. One thing I'd like to do is help students serve others and begin thinking with their hearts," she said. 
But Norton also has some very personal concerns about taking office. among them that being the first female presi­dent will place increased pres­sure on her. According to Norton, her election puts her in a position in which she must be competent in order to prove to others that a woman can do the job as well as a man. 
Norton said she also feels somewhat obligated to tackle such so-called women's issues as campus safety. gender rela­tions and eating disorders. 
"I think anyone should be paying close attention to those issues," she said. "Maybe as a woman I have more of an acute sense of these issues, but that doesn't make them any easier to solve." 
Learning the ropes 
When she arrived on campus almost three years ago, the now-20-year-old Norton did not envision herself becoming so deeply involved in student government. 
The Glendora, Calif., native said her career began when she put up four campaign posters while campaigning for Walsh Hall freshman repre­sentative. Weeks later, Norton was elected class secretary. 
The following year, when Norton was serving as sopho­more class vice president, cur­rent student body president Brian O'Donoghue chose Norton to be his running mate in the 2000 election. 
O'Donoghue said over the course of the past year, he has observed Norton's care, dedi­cation and concern for the stu­dents she represents. 
"This year has seen Brooke in leadership as much as me. She's exhibited an amazing devotion to the student body," said O'Donoghue, a senior. 
Norton's new colleague, vice president-elect Brian Moscona, agreed. 
As the current sophomore class president, Moscona said he has also been impressed with Norton's leadership skills. 
"Brooke's great with people. I really believe in her," he said. "She has a lot of great ideas, and she's a phenomenal leader." 
Ready to take office 
According to Norton, people have asked about her inten­tions to run for president since she took over the vice presi­dency almost a year ago and long before she declared her candidacy this year. 
Norton said she felt pres­sured to make a choice but waited until winter break in December to make a thought­ful decision. She said she wanted to resolve the matter while away from Notre Dame and surrounded by family and friends. 
"[Being student body presi­dent] is a huge job, and I real­ized that going in. But in my heart, I think I knew that I wanted to try. If I didn't try. I'd never forgive myself," she said. 
While Norton has more than 30 days before her term as vice president ends, she said she is balancing her current responsibilities with the duties of transitioning into the presi­dency. 
"Things are easier now because a lot of my roles as vice president and president­elect are similar. The cam­paigning was certainly stress­ful on the mind and body," Norton said. 
But it was well worth the effort, Norton said, crediting her victory to students who trust her abilities and experi­ence and to a supportive body of family. friends and cam­paign workers. 
"It's amazing to have the honor of being elected student body president of Notre Dame," she said. "To see the smiles on people's faces and to hear the words of congratula­tions because of the election ... it's a good feeling." 


Body Image Awareness week 
"Mal<ing Weight: Men's & Women's Conflicts with Food, Weight, Shape & Appearance" Leigh Cohn, Author 
c5unday, Yeh. 25 7pm 101 7Je7Jarlofo 
Body Image Awareness Fair 
!JJ(onday & Juesday, Yeb. 26 & 27 10,.,4 7Joofey, Ba!Jo.rlune 
Eating Concerns Survey 2000: "The student response" 
!Jl(onrfay, Yeh. 26 7pm GenierjoI· c5ocia/Concerns 
"What to say. Tips for tall<ing with a struggling friend" 
Wednesday, Yeh. 2& 5:30 !Jl(onfyomery, BaY-orlune 
"Developing a Healthy Lifestyle without the Quiel< Fix" Judy Molnar -Founder of Rosie O'Donnell's "Chub Club" 

7pm 155 7Je:J3arlofo 
"Are you a perfectionist? Can self-acceptance be that bad?" 
Yriday, !JJ(arch2 11am Y<m 300, Gounsefiil!J GenleI' 
Sponsored by RecSports, Food Services, IRISHealth, Health Services, Student Activities, Student Union & Counseling Center 
........~-.----------...... 
Thursday, February 22, 200 I The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
SOS talk attempts to debunk sexual assault myths 
By KRISTEN FITZPATRICK 
News Writer 

Sex Offenser Services (SOS) representative Lynn Bradford attempted to demystify procedures sur­rounding the report of a sexual assault Wednesday in the hope that increasing awareness will lead to further discussion and reporting. 
According to Bradford. one in three women and one in 10_ men will be a victim of sexual assault in their lifetimes, with one in seven women being assaulted during college. She also said that the consumption of alcohol is a large factor in most sexual assaults and rapes, with 90 percent on-cam­pus rapes involving alcohol. 
"We handle about 30 cases a month," said Bradford. "Those are only the reported cases. It's vital that we get these issues out in the open so that women are not afraid to talk about [the assault] if it happens to them." 
Bradford emphasized the importance about telling the truth about rape. 
"It's important that we get a positive message out there," she said. "It's important that everyone knows that rape is a crime of violence, of power and control and not about sex. It's important that sexual assault victims know that it was not their fault and that they are not less of a person because of it." 
Bradford brought in a rape kit and explained what would happen to a woman when she was brought to the hospital as a victim. The evidence collection starts with the woman placing a large cloth on the floor and undressing on it so that any debris from her clothing or herself can be collected. 
The nurse will take her underwear and most likely the rest of her clothing for DNA collection, said Bradford, because "it is marked as evidence, she will never get it back." 
The woman will have to comb and pluck hairs from her head and her pubic region for DNA col­lection. The nurse will take a swab of the mouth, vagina and rectum for DNA collection. Finally, blood will be taken and a shot will be given to pro­tect against chlamydia and gonorrhea. The victim will also be given antibiotics to protect against other sexually transmitted diseases. 
Bradford said that a good percentage of the advocates from SOS are Notre Dame or Saint Mary's students. The advocates present stressed the importance of getting help soon after being sex­ually assaulted, adding that one will not be pun­ished for a parietals violation or alcohol violation if the assault occurs under one of these circum­stances. 
SOS is the rape crisis center for St. Joseph County. They provide confidential support for vic­tims of sex crimes and their families, as well as a 24-hour hotline for support at any time. 

At a Wednesday night talk in Pangborn Hall, Sex Offense Services representative Lynn Bradford urged students to report and be aware of sexual assault. Bradford aimed to demystify the procedures surrounding rape. 

The Observer Ads 
.SMC trustees to meet today, Friday Departmentis looking for a 
where Saint Mary's students will "This is an exciting opportuni­By KATIE MILLER be present. ty for students to speak one on News Writer "I have worked with the chair one with a trustee in order to
Freshman, Sophomore or Junior 
of the Committee on Student share their ideas and concerns The Saint Mary's Board of Life and the for Saint Mary's," Trustees will meet on campus administration said Kahn. "The
to work Tuesdays and 
today and Friday to discuss top­to design the "This is an exciting trustees are ics ranging from student life to agenda for the opportunity for always interested the Master Plan. The agenda meeting. I am in student opin­
students to speak one
Thursdays, 9 a.m to 11 a.m. 
includes reports on the Master also a member ions, so this is a Plan, the Strategic plan and stu­of the on one with a trustee good chance for dent committees, according to Committee on in order to share their both parties." 
If interested, call 1-6900. 
Molly Kahn, student representa­Mission," said On Friday, full
ideas and concerns for 
tive to the Board of Trustees. Kahn. "Other Board meetings Thursday's activities will con­Saint Mary's Saint Mary's.·· will take place. 
sist of committee meetings College stu­Important topics 

dents serve on at these meetings

Molly Khan 
the Committee will include the
student representative to 
on Student Master Plan and the Board of Trustees the Strategic Plan. 
Life, the 
Committee on "The Board has Education, the recently been Committee on-Finance. and focusing on issues of fundraising Budget, the Committee on for the Master Plan," said Kahn. College Relations and the "Also, the Board has been giving Committee on Mission." input on the Strategic Plan and 
In addition to committee working on further developing meetings today, each Trustees the working style of the Board."
February 2 Khalil Matta (Director, MIS Program, University of Notre Dome) 
will eat with an assigned stu­This is the second time the
"Overview of the Lecture Series" 
dent at Noble Family Dining Board of Trustees has met this Hall. school year. 
February 9 Allen Hammond (CIO and Senior Scientist World Resources Institute) "Impact of Globallzatlon" 
February 16 Joe Mccarthy (Researcher, Accenture -Ctr. for Strategic Technology) "Awareness and Collaboration In the Workplace of the Future" 
February 23 Mike Mazarr (President, Henry L. Stimson Center) "Sociology and Psychology of People In the Electronic Workplace" 
March 2 Greg Hedges (Partner, eBusiness Risk Consulting, Arthur Andersen) "Privacy Concerns In the Electronic Age" 
Morch 23 Bob Reilly (President, OHR International) "New Poe Leadership Skills" 
Morch 30 Gory Reiner (Senior VP and CIO, General Electric) "Technology and E-Commerce Organizations: Future Directions" 
April 6 Bob Buckman (Ret. Board Chairman and President, Buckman Labs) "Knowledge Management In the New MIiiennium" 
April 20 Dan Hesse (Chairman, President, CEO, Terabeam Networks) "Wireless and Optical Technologies and their lmpllcatlons" 


All Lectures held from 10:35am-12:05pm Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business 
Ml
Untversltyof Notre Dame
All Notre Dome faculty, staff and students 
Mendoza College of Bualness 
ore welcome to attend 
' , . 
' ; ·~ fr , ... -c' ' 
) . , I _ : . I , · 
page 8 

The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, February 22,2001 
student union 
HAPPENING§ 
WEEK OF FEBRUARY i!!i! -i!!B 
Movies: Best in Show. The Matrix. 
2/22. Thursday. 101 . 155. DeBartolo 1030PM. Tickets: $2. 2/23. Friday. 101. 155. De Bartolo 0800PM & 1030PM. 2/24. Saturday. 101. 155. De Bartolo 0B00PM & 1030PM. 
Acousticafe. 2/22. Thursday. LaFortune Huddle 0900PM-1200AM. Blood Drive. 2/22. Thursday. RSRC 0900AM-0300PM Christmas in April Sign ups. 2/22. Thursday. Lafun and Reckers 1100-0200PM, 0300-0800PM Bengal Bouts -preliminaries. _2/22. Thursday. JACC 0730 PM "The Winter's Tale" performed by Actors from the London Stage. 2/22. Thursday. Washington Hall 0730PM II Postino -foreign film. 2/22. Thursday. DeBartolo 155 0700PM What Brothers Think, What Sistahs Think: Temptation ND. 2/22. Thursday. LaFun Ballroom 0B00PM Charles Carrillo -"Santos: Yesterday and Today"Devotional images of 18, 19, and 20th century New Mexico. 2/22. Thursday. Snite Auditorium 0730PM Blood Drive. 2/23. Friday. RSRC 0900AM-0300PM Charles Carillo -Santos making workshops and demonstration. 2/23. Friday. Snite Mestrovic Gallery 0200PM 
WEEK OF MARCH I -7
Orson Welles in Brazil ­2/23. Friday. McKenna Hall 0300PM 
All day Collegiate Jazz Band Festival 
"The Winter's Tale11 performed by Actors from the London Stage 
3/1. Thursday. LaFun Ballroom 0700PM 
2/23. Friday. Washington Hall 0730PM 
ND Concert Band and ND Symphony Orchestra Winter Concert 
"Remember the Titans11 

3/1. Thursday. Washington Hall 0800PM 
2/23. Friday. Carroll Aud, SMC 0700PM 
Movies: Unbreakable. The Sixth Sense. 
11 lt1s All True 11 

2/22. Thursday. 101. 155. DeBart 1030PM. 
2/23. Friday. Snite 0730PM 
2/23. Friday. 101. 155. DeBart 8 & 1030PM. 
Celebration of "Carnaval" 

2/24. Saturday. 101. 155. DeBart 8 & 1030PM. 
2/23. Friday. LaFun Ballroom 0800PM 
2 Bengal Bouts -Finals 
"12 Angry Men" 

3/2. Friday. JACC 0800PM 
2/23. Friday. Moreau Seminary Aud 0B00PM 
First Friday 
Sorin Formal; Badin Dance; Howard Dance; Dillon Formal; Engineering Ball 
3/2. Friday. ND Room Lafun 1200-130 PM 
2/23. Friday. 

Shanghai Triad 
ND Men's Tennis vs Northwestern 
3/2. Friday. Snite 0730, 930PM 
2/24. Saturday. Eck Tennis Pavillion 1200PM 
Knott Hall Dance; BP Beach Party dance 
Zahm Winter Carnival 
3/2. Friday.

2/24. Saturday. North Quad 0100PM 
Sophomore Class Retreat Day 1 
ND Women's B-ball vs. Georgetown 
3/3. Saturday.

2/24. Saturday. JACC 0100PM 
Stanford Formal; Lewis Formal 
ND Men/Women's Swimming Shamrock Classic 
3/3. Saturday.

2/24. Saturday. Rolf's Aquatic Ctr 0600PM 
Sophomore Class Retreat Day 2 
Fiestang Filipina VII 
3/4. Sunday.

2/24. Saturday. Stepan Center 0700-1 000PM 
Spanish Mass 
"Remember the Titans" 

3/4. Sunday. Zahm Chapel 0130PM 
2/24. Saturday. Carroll Aud, SMC 0700PM "Touch of Evil" directed by Orson Welles 2/24. Saturday. Snite 0730, 0930PM "The Winter's Tale" performed by Actors from the London Stage 2/24. Saturday. _Washington Hall 0730PM 
FUTURE EIIENT!i 
Flipside sponsored Ice Skating 2/24. Saturday. JACC 0800-1 000PM 
March. 
11 12 Angry Men11 
30 McGlinn Casino Night 

2/24. Saturday. Moreau Sem Auditorium 0800PM 
31 Sophomore Class Ball 

Dance Marathon sponsored by Stanford Hall 
April.
2/24. Saturday. Alumni Sr Club 1000PM 
01 St. Edward's Hall spring fling 
Zahm Decade Dance; O'Neill Mardi Gras 
06 Alumni Processional, 0400 -0700PM 
2/24. Saturday. 
07 Lewis Chicken Run, 0400 -0700PM 
Justin Braumbaugh Memorial 3 on 3 b-ball tournament 
07 Alumni Wake 

2/25. Sunday. Stepan Ctr 0800-0400PM 
07 Lewis Crush 
Spanish Mass 

20 Badin Block Party, 0400 -0700PM 
2/25. Sunday. Zahm Chapel 0130PM 
20 Sorin Dance 
ND collegium Concert 
21 Walsh Formal 

2/25. Sunday. Basilica 0800PM 
21 Carroll Hall Fusic Festival, 1200 -0700PM 
26 Bengal Bouts -Quarterfinals 
27 Howard Concert, South Quad 0400 -0700PM 
2/26. Monday. JACC 0730PM 
28 Fisher Regatta, 0200 -0500PM;
27 Son of Gascogore -infl film 
28 Pangborn/Fisher Dance 
2/27. Tuesday. Montgomery theatre 0700 & 0900PM 28 Ash Wednesday; Latin Film Series movie -TBA 2/28. Wenesday. Hesburgh Auditorium 0700PM Bengal Bouts -Semi-finals 2/28. Wenesday. JACC 0730PM 
_,
---~~--------~1111!'£.....
G.....---------------~~-----.---------------­
Thursday, February 22, 2001 

The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Steely Dan, U2 dominate Grammys 
"We've been around a long
Associated Press 

time," said Steely Dan's Donald Fagen. "It's nice to get one of LOS ANGELES these." Veteran rockers U2 and D'Angelo's "Voodoo" won best 
Steely Dan and country singer R&B album and his song,Faith Hill stole some of the "Untitled (How Does It Feel)"Grammy spotlight Wednesday won best male R&B vocal per­from Eminem, whose angry formance. Destiny's Child "Saylyrics entangled the ceremonies My Name" won best R&B songin controversy. and best R&B performance by a 
Steely Dan, who won their group. first three Grammys, earned Hill's "Breathe" won best album of the year honors over country vocal performance and Eminem's "The Marshall her duet with her husband, Tim Mathers LP." Eminem won McGraw, won best country col­three rap music awards. laboration with vocals. She also 
U2 won three won best awards, including country
"It ·s· a very unique 
the prestigious album. 
song and record of emotion I'm feeling "Wow! the year for right now. I think it's Oh, I cannot 
"Beautiful Day." believe this,"
called humility. " 
"It's a very Hill said. "I 
unique emotion I'm feeling right now. I think it's called humility," said U2's Bono, who said fellow nominee Macy Gray and others should share the band's award. 'Tm com­pletely not used to it." 
D'Angelo and Destiny's Child won two each. 
Eminem's performance of his song "Stan" with Elton John tested the CBS censors. At least three expletives slipped by and were heard on the air. 
Eminem -the target of 100 protesters outside the awards show -was honored for best solo rap performance, best rap album and best rap perfor­mance by a duo or group for his collaboration with his mentor and producer, Dr. Dre. 
Steely Dan, who will be inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, also won best pop album for their first disc in 19 years and won best pop vocal performance by a group for "Cousin Dupree." 

would like to 
Bono thank my mom and dad
U2 

for allowing 
me to go to my first concert when I was 8 years old to Elvis Presley." 
Eminem's nomination for album of the year for "The Marshall Mathers LP" had drawn the most attention before the show. The album, which has sold nearly 8 million copies, denigrates homosexuals, describes the murder of his wife and has a rape fantasy involv­ing Eminem's mother. 
Elton John came under intense criticism from gay activists for agreeing to perform with the 28-year-old Detroit rapper during the Grammy show. 
The controversy, and diverse group of nominees, promised to drive up viewership for the annual awards show. 
Madonna lost out on the best female pop vocal Grammy; the award went to Gray for "I Try." In fact, the new mother and wife was shut out of the three categories she was nominated in, along with boy band N Sync, who had last year's best-selling album with "No String's Attached." 
There are 100 Grammy cate­gories this year. Unlike last year, when Santana walked away with a record-tying eight awards, no artist or group was positioned for such a sweep. 
Dr. Dre and the R&B trio Destiny's Child led all nomina­tions with five each. Dr. Dre picked up the honor for best producer in the pre-telecast ceremony. 
Two of the fired members of Destiny's Child could have appeared on stage with the now-trio when they picked up their two Grammys, but did not. Lead singer Beyonce Knowles briefly alluded to the group's lineup drama when she thanked replacement Michelle Williams "for blessing Destiny's Child." 
Jennifer Lopez, who provided the Grammys most memorable moment last year with her navel-plunging Versace dress, was not present, but the spirit of her dress was there with Toni Braxton's eye-popping sil­ver Richard Tyler frock. Program host Jon Stewart joked that Braxton was wearing his lost scarf. 
Over the past several years, the Grammys -criticized for ignoring artists in their time ­have tried to bring the nomina­tions in tune with critical tastes. Eminem's album won mostly raves from critics. 
"The bottom line is that this is the ultimate test of Grammy hipness," said Tom O'Neil, author of the book "The Grammys." 
The academy and many musi­cians who defended Eminem's nominations cited his right to free expression. 
NOTRE DAME IS A LEADER 
Alblon College American University Arizona Stale University Bard College Boise State University 
Boston College 
Brown University Central Michigan University Clark University 
College of the Holy Cross 
Columbia University Cornell University 
DePaul University 
Earlham College Georgetown University Haverford College Illinois State University Indiana University 
Loyola University Chicago Loyola University 
INew Orleans 

Macalester College  University of Callfornla • San Francisco  
Miami University of Ohio  University of Cellfornia • Santa Barbara  
Mlddlel>Ury Collage  Northern ArlZona University  
New York University  University of llllnols-Urbana Champaign  
Northern Illinois University  University of Iowa  
Oberlin College  University of Maine-Farmington  
Purdue University  University of Massachusetts  
Regis University  University of Massachusetts • Amherst  
Saint Cloud State University  University of Massachusetts· Boston  

Saint Joseph's University University of Massachusells-Dartmouth 

Saint Mary's College 
San Francisco State University Sarah Lawrence Collage Smith Collage Transylvania University Trinity College Tulane University Union College University of 4r1Zona University of California· Berkeley University of California• Davis University of California • Irvine University of California -Los Angeles University of California • Merced Unlvarstty of California • Riverside University of Caltfornla • San Diego University of Massachusetts• Lowell University of Massachusetts. Worcester University of Michigan University of Minnesota 
University of North Carolina • Chapel HIii 
University of Oregon University of Pennsylvania University of Washington University of Wisconsin-Madison University of Wisconsin-Stevens Point Vassar Collage Western Michigan University WIiiiams College University of California· Santa Cruz University of Connecticut 
!Then why have 74 schools signed C on to the WAC before us?~ 

Bush attends Graham dinner in Georgetown 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON President Bush rubbed 
elbows with a sampling of 
the nation's elite at a dinner 
Wednesday night at Kath­a r i n e 
Graham's 
George­
t o w n 

home. Among those on the guest list were billion­aires Bill Gates, Warren Buffett and Steve 

Case, Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan, Secretary of State Colin Powell, Vernon Jordan. Henry Kissinger and televi­sion personalities Diane Sawyer, Barbara Walters and Andrea Mitchell. 
Graham, the former pub­lisher of the Post and the current chairman of the executive committee of The Washington Post Co., com­mended Bush for socializing. 
"He's been awfully nice in every way to reach out to Washington," she was quot­ed by the Post. "I think that makes a lot of difference in the feelings of people in this town." 

Mechanical problems delay demonstration by exile Cuban group 
Associated Press 

MIAMI A Cuban exile group's plan to launch fireworks from boats just outside Cuban waters was delayed by mechanical problems late 
Wednesday. 'd h' 
Ramon Saul Sanchez, head of Democracy Movement, sa1 IS organization and a Cuba-based group had co~rdinated efforts to have the fireworks coincide with a protest m Cuba over food rationing. 
Sanchez and about 25 others set off in two boats from the Florida Keys early Wednesday, planning to be 12 1/2 miles off the coast of Havana by 7 p.m. to set off a $1,?00 barrag~ of fire­works coinciding with some Cubans on the island bangmg pots and pans together. . 
But one of the group's boats had mechamcal problems and had to be towed back to Marathon by the other boat. Coast Guard spokesman Dana Warr said Wednesday night. . 
Sanchez and members of his group depart~d agam at 3:30_ 
p.m. aboard a single boat and were due to arrive at the spot oft Cuban waters early Thursday. . 
Earlier Wednesday. about 20 of the group's supporters rode m a caravan through the streets of Miami's Little Havana, each banging pots and pans. 

O
THE
page 10 
BSERVER 
Thursday, February 22, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 


The dating game with a dwarf
P.O. Box Q, Nocrc Dam~, IN 46556 
024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Tim Lane  
•  

NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Mattingly VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smith SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: Elizabeth Lang 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Bob Woods GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 

OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING .....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDIT0RIAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE.. ......................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer .obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 
observer.sports. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer .smc. l@nd.edu PH0T0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site at http:llobseroer.ndtdu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/musk for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Obsen-er 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither instirucion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies ,hould be direct­ed to Editor in Chit[ Mike Connolly. 

There's a Federico Fellini film in which a character, upset over his failings with the ladies, climbs a tree and refuses to come down. When his family tries to coax him down from the tree, he answers, "I need a woman!" When 
Scott Blaszak
they climb a ladder 
to get him down, he 
throws stones at 
The Early 

them, then shouts, "I 
• need a woman!" It's Essays an absurd scene, but, watching it, I thought immediately of gender relations at Notre Dame. Of course. I grant that some of us here are in healthy relationships, the kind that run deeper than Notre Dame's peculiar mating dance involving formal attire, a useless gift and a fifth oftequila. For the rest of us, it's awfully cold outside during this Valentine's Day hangover, with the supermarkets still hocking stale choco­late and dead flowers. This is why I thought it might prove beneficial to explore a few gaffs common to courtship. Along the way, I'll try to provide ways to avoid these types of dis­asters. And as a result, if this column instigates one meaningful relationship or even one lone random hookup at a fresh­man party in Lewis, I'll take satisfaction in that. So, if you sit by yourself with your waffies right now in South Dining Hall and I suspect you do, I urge you to take out a pencil and paper. Male-female relationships are depen­dent on dialogue. They always have been except for the silent movie era, when pick-up lines were pantomimed. Nowadays, unless you're at The 'Backer, you have to speak with her. Let's analyze some routine discourse. 
Him: Hello, I'm Steve. Her: Hi, I'm Suzie. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Him: How are you doing? Her: Not too bad. My father works at a faucet company in Gary. 
Great. Steve and Suzie have estab­lished a rapport and Suzie has offered up a topic of conversation. Steve can go a myriad of directions with this father­faucet-Gary information. I expect good things for this couple. Unfortunately, most encounters don't run this smoothly. Say, for instance, a month from now, a different guy, let's call him Ben, hits on Suzie. 
Ben: Hi, I'm Ben. What's your name? Suzie: Suzie, but my boyfriend calls me Sue. 
Okay. A little painful for Ben, but the message is clearly sent and Ben and Suzie will go their separate ways. Ben may cry a little on the inside, but on the outside he will most likely just play more GoldenEye. Believe me, there are more callous ways of going about things. Consider Kelly. 
Ben: Hi. 
Kelly: Hi. 

Ben: How are you? 
Kelly: My boyfriend is not you. 
Ouch. There is a word for girls who operate like Kelly, but this newspaper will not print it. Still, for all Kelly's per­sonal shortcomings, sometimes you're still interested in her because she can really fill out a sundress. If this is the case, you need to stay poised. 
Remember, girls often use the b-bomb as a test. To get a girl like Kelly, you have to call her bluff. Watch Racecar and learn. 
Racecar: Hello. Kelly: Hi. I have a boyfriend who plays volleyball with big muscles. Racecar: I am engaged to two different girls and married to Claire Forlani. Racecar and Kelly will wed in three months. Why? Two reasons: (1) Racecar 
is perhaps the coolest name ever and {2) 
the relationship is founded on fallacy.· 
The last thing you want in a serious relationship is for the other person to find out who you really are. Truth and love are like PLS majors; they will never complement each other. It's true. My uncle unknowingly married a fake robot and has never realized it. Theirs is the most harmonious relationship I've ever seen. 
Uncle Vito, if I remember correctly. is the name of the Fellini character strand­ing himself in the tree and I know you 're dying to find out what happens to him. 
It's quite predictable, actually. A dwarf nun climbs up the ladder and coaxes him out of the tree. And, if you'll allow me to wax sentimental for a moment, isn't that what each of us is really waiting for, a dwarf nun to convince us down from our tree of lonesomeness? I know in my fan­tasy, for instance, it's not an Italian dwarf nun but a 5'9" French maid and she's not coaxing me out of a tall maple, but tying me to a piano. But these are insignificant details. 
Our world is an entirely lonely place. It is empty study cubicles and silent dorm rooms. It is 20 page research papers about Thoreau and, "Sorry you have no e-mail." For happiness here, you must find that special someone to talk with, to drink with, to dart with. to share your life and your illegal copy of the sociology exam with. And if you cannot find this special someone or if you do and she looks too much like a duck, then you need to get cable. 
Scott Blaszak is a senior Arts and letters student. His column usually appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Remove the "Trojan Horse" 

While flipping through my roommate's issue of Notre Dame Magazine, I recently learned of the statue of Mary dedicated to victims of abortion by the Knights of Columbus. Sad to say, I was not shocked by such a display of insensitivity, deliber­ate manipulation and the current backlash against women. It's what I have grown to expect. 
Now, I'm not concerned that the Knights of Columbus are somehow going to gain the power to revoke my (or any other woman's) right to choose. What I am concerned about are the many women who must walk by that statue every single day and face judgement by their own school. Loathe as any­one may be to admit it, there are many, many women on campus who have had abortions. I for one believe they should not be ostracized nor should those who believe in choice. 
I ask Pro-Lifers at Notre Dame, specifically the Knights of Columbus, to remember that women who have abortions don't do it for entertainment value. It's not a Sunday walk in the park, my friends; it's a violating and shattering experi­ence, one I wish were unnecessary. A focus on assisting women instead of abusing them might give a little more ere-
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 

E 

~ I R!GGEO IT TO KILL u
DON'T USE. THE 
C DOESN'T 

I'LL SWITCH 
;
SHREDDER TODAY. 
co 
~ 
"O 
g 
u 
co 
(,) 
t: 
G> 
J:I 
i:, 


dence to any Notre Dame Pro-Lifer's stance. Unfortunately, these women are forced into the mold of baby-killers, manip­ulative language if I've ever heard it. 
This statue as a representation of close-mindedness signals another point in Notre Dame's chronological decline. Will the stellar education I received in English and Film be unavail­able for future generations because, for example, we won't be able to learn both sides of anything? Will no one teach rationality, sensitivity and analysis. forsaken for some absolute moralistic right? Shame on you, Notre Dame, for even accepting this Trojan Horse and abandoning education and free thought for hatred and disgust. 
How can I be proud of my degree? How can I reconcile my beliefs with a school that denies my beliefs? Please, remem­ber the other innocent victims of abortion and if you have any humanity whatsoever, stop victimizing them. 
Jocelyn Szczepaniak-Gillece 
class of '00 New York, New York February 21, 200 l 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"/ want to seize fate by the throat. " 
Ludwig van Beethoven musician 

l 
.•. s':.~ ~ 

I 
I 
p 
1 

_j 
• I 
I 
I 
OTHE

Thursday, February 22, 200 I BSERVER page 11 
LETTERS !0 THE EDITOR 

Watch the Bouts
' 
support Bangladesh 
Tonight, many Notre Dame stu­dents are going to mix it up. 
Tonight, punches will be thrown and noses bloodied, but don't be too worried about it. At the end of the fight, the students will embrace bet­ter friends than when it began. 
Tonight, one of the greatest tradi­tions on the Notre Dame campus, The Bengal Bouts, will begin. 
The Bouts are an offshoot of Knute Rockne's boxing program that under the management of Dominic "Nappy" Napolitano took on a charitable goal. They have been a fixture on this campus for 71 years and have sent as much as $71,000 to our brothers and sisters in Bangladesh. 
There ate plenty of reasons to attend the Bengal Bouts over the next week. Come to hear the outra­geous nicknames people come up with. Watch your friend, roommate or significant other in competition and out of support for his six weeks of hard work. See a sport that isn't in the mainstream on its purest amateur level. But most important­ly, come to support the Bangladeshi family of five that can live for two weeks off the proceeds of your $10 student ticket. 
If you are from South Bend or the surrounding area, come to watch Josh Thompson, Mark Criniti and Luke Dillon who attended area high schools. If you are a senior, come for your last tournament to watch Pete Ryan, who has been winning fights since your freshman year. 

But no matter where you are from or how old you are, come in support of the Holy Cross priests who work so hard to improve the lives of an impoverished people half a world away. 
This year promises a record num­ber of fighters and over a dozen returning champs and finalists. Having studied for six weeks under the tutelage of alumni coaches Terry Johnson and Tom Suddes, they are eager to showcase their talents for the community. On behalf of the coaches, managers and student captains, please con­sider this your cordial invite to the Bengal Bouts. 
We invite you to cheer for the fighter who takes his licks for a kid who can't get a break in Bangladesh. We invite you to study the veteran who boxes with preci­sion for the student learning the fundamentals of math and science at Notre Dame College in Dhaka. We invite you to grimace for the young man spilling his blood to fill the mouths of children he will never know. At the end ofthe night, we invite you to put your hands togeth­er for the fighters who fought a brave battle, not against each other, but against Bangladeshi poverty. 
Joshua Thompson Brian Hobbins 
Co-Presidents Notre Dame Boxing Club February 21, 200 l 
An eagle's eye on parietals 
It's a little unusual that I am writing to The Observer since I have no real affiliation with Notre Dame, but on a recent trip to your University, I was bothered enough by one of the school's policies to compose this letter. My complaint has to do with a term that is familiar to everyone at Notre Dame and which became familiar to me during my visit ... "Parietals." I imagine that you regularly publish articles and receive incensed polemics concerning this controversial issue, but if you're interested in an out­sider's opinion, here's mine: The rules governing visits from the opposite sex at Notre Dame create an unfriendly atmosphere for your guests. 
Not long ago, I flew to South Bend to watch a friend star in a musical. For the purposes of this letter, it is important to note that I am a boy and she is a girl (Unseemly, I know). Because she was busy preparing for her play throughout most of the weekend, we were left without a great deal of time to chat. At night, after everything settled down, we should have had a chance to remedy that, but unfortunately for us parietals is the most strictly enforced policy at Notre Dame. At 2 a.m. I was unhappy to learn that I had to leave her room. Not surprisingly, the small 24 hour space provided for such occasions was already full. That left us without any good place to go and we spent the rest of the night walking around (it was a cold night) looking for somewhere to have a conversation. 
I can appreciate genuine concerns for safety; certainly anyone who has no business being in a girls' dormitory at night should not be allowed in. Parietals are less about safety, however, than an outdated sense of propri­ety which is simply not in keeping with the times. 
To sum up: Regardless ofwhy parietals are considered necessary. pari­
etal policy made me feel less welcome at Notre Dame than I have at anv 
other university. · 
Mike Davin 
Boston College sophomore February 21, 2001 
Flying the evil skies 
Whether one is a stand•up comic or a his/her Cadillac SUV, is the coach passenger. ~umorist, there comes a time in every aspir­Jus~ the thought _that we might brush up mg funny person's life when he/she must agamst them while boarding chills them to face the greatest fear of all: Lack of material. the core of their soul-less beings (While \Vhen the humor font runs dry, Temptation boarding I always try to sneeze excessively Island: Notre Dame Style and r~peat th~. phrase, 'Ts on the flying won't turn itself into a Am S h'II machme now! as much as possible). column and even mon-Y c 1 Unfortunately, because of a certain flight keys don't seem funny attendant's diligent effort to keep the classes anymore, the humorist apart, I was able to yell, "I am the boogie
Dazed and

has three options; sui­man!" at only one snotty old woman before
Amused

cide, heavy drug use and being escorted back to coach. airline humor. I took the Finally, someone found the fuel receipt and road most traveled by and it has allowed me we took off. Realizing I would probably miss to meet my deadline. my connection, I decided to find happiness 
What draws hack comics and colum­--in food, consuming roughly 18 Bistro nists alike to airline humor is, of Bags. But, lo and behold, we course, humanity's mutual hatred arrived in St. Louis a little earlier for the entire airline industry. than expected and I thought I Love and respect will never could make my South Bend unite us, but we can all agree flight if I ran. However, TWA that the airline industry exists had strategically placed my to screw us over and next to gate about 3.5 miles away, 
as a part of their assidu­Core, is probably 

humankind's most evil cre­ous effort to ruin my life. As it turns out, I never
ation. As we all know. 
really had a chancethose in Dante's lowest since they had alreadylevel of Hell must spend given my seat awayeternity in a Core class long before. You see

in an airport where 
for the 80 seat plane,every flight out is per­TWA had soldpetually delayed. 
53,060 tickets.
Most students here 
Angry, tired andnever have to take distressed, I had aCore (in this life any­brief conversationway), but many of us with the woman athave no choice but to the counter.
fly home for breaks. 
Me: ls the planeNow occasionally, still here?
when all the planets Random TWAare aligned, the minion on whom I 
weather is great and 
choose to blameno one is on strike, all my problems: you can fly home The plane is stilluneventfully. This here but the flighthappens about as is full. 
often as George W. 
Me (waving my Bush utters a coher­boarding passent sentence. (For frantically): But I those keeping score have a ticket.
at home, that's five TWA woman: columns and four Yes, but we'reBush jokes.) 
overbooked.
The rest of the 
Me: But if I pay time, something odd for a ticket,inevitably happens to shouldn't I expect keep you from getting to get a seat?
home: The flight TWA woman: In a
attendants are late, 
perfect worldthere is some mechan­maybe.
ical problem or wild Me: I am the boogiecheetahs have invaded man!
the terminal. All this TWA woman: Oh,trouble is compounded like I've never heardby the fact that the only that one before. 

way to fly out of South After speaking to sev­Bend is on a two-passen­eral other annoying air­ger propeller plane pow­

, ! ~ line people, I flew toered by anemic gerbils. 
I i: • Chicago and took a bus toHowever, my most excruciat­
l 't t~ 'vt•ll 
South Bend. I went to theing flying experience was not 1 , ' f TWA counter looking for mygoing home, but coming back 

l · ' (

1 • luggage and was taken to afrom spring break last year. 
Out of respect for the airline, I '\I ~ 'f ~ •• , room filled with about a hun­. · ·' dred bags and Jimmy Hoff a. To
won't mention it by name, but sim• my surprise, my bag was actuallyply call my story TWA is the Devil. 
there. I took a cab back and got to myThe trouble began immediately after dorm sometime during finals week.
boarding. The captain announced that the And so it goes. TWA may be on its way out, fuel receipt was missing. Apparently but there are others out there waiting to takeattached to this receipt was the key to the our money and our souls. For those airlines, plane because it was impossible to take off I have just one thing to say -I am the boo·
without it.'So faced with the option of spend­ing the next 30 to 40 minutes hetween a 300 gie man! 
pound man with a screaming baby and a 
Amy Schill is a sophomore Arts and letters
woman reading Chicken Soup for the Serial 
major. Her column appears every other 
Killer's Soul, I decided to get up and walk 
Thursday.

around. Having determined that the closest 
The views expressed in this column are
exit was in fact behind me, I went to harass 
those ofthe author and not necessarily those 
the first class passengers. I always enjoy 
ofThe Observer. 
doing this because the first class passenger's biggest fear, besides getting a flat tire on 
M 

c~ne E 
page 12 
Thursday, February 22, 2001 
MOVIE REVIEW 


Photo courtesy of Paramount Pictures Chris Rock co-wrote and stars in "Down to Earth," a remake of Warren Beatty's "Heaven Can Wait." Chris and Paul Weitz, who scored with "American Pie," try their hand at broader comedy. 
By JEFFREY Q. IRJSH Scene Movie Critic 

Chris Rock is a sell out. With "Down to Earth." he has made a PG-13 rated comedy for the masses. 
How ironic is it that just last week on MTV's "Di.ary" he verbally assaulted a record store clerk for selling him a censored version of Jay-Z's "The Dynasty," and then went out and attempted to make a kiddie movie about his explic­it comedy routine? 
"Down to Earth" looked like it had potential. The TV spots advertised the combination of two of today's funniest people -Rock and Eugene Levy ("American Pie") -making fun of the difference between whites and blacks. 
This has been the overrid­ing theme of much of Rock's stand-up routines and it's easy to see ·how "American Pie" directors Chris and Paul Weitz would be interested. 
The movie starts out with Rock as an average comedian trying to earn one of four cov­eted amateur spots to play in front of a sold out crowd at the Apollo theatre. It has been his dream since he was a kid and it is the only thing that he has ever wanted to do. 
Then one day he is riding his bike, is hit by a truck and dies. 
After his death, he is quick­ly sent to heaven where he meets his guardian angel (Levy). It just so happens that Levy made a mistake and Rock wasn't supposed to die. 
In order to make up for this. Rock is allowed to return to earth and is given his choice of bodies of people who are dead, but have not yet been discovered. 
After some consideration, he chooses the body of the 15th richest man in the world, Charles Wellington, a white, health industry tycoon (here comes the comedy!). 
At this point, Hock still thinks he is a poor, black comedian, but the world sees him as a rich, white tycoon. 
Then Suntee (Regina King) comes along, playing Rock's romantic interest. She is a loving person and is trying to save a Brooklyn hospital from being bought out by the very tycoon whose body Hock now inhabits. \Vellington had 

i
• 
MOVIE REVIEW 

Cult director Sam Raimi brings visual flair to an otherwi. 
husband's domestic abuse. elements never really extend rather conventional setting.
By CHRIS BANNISTER 

Indeed, Valerie's husband, themselves. Finally. the film as a whole 
Scene Movie Critic 

Donnie (Keanu Reeves). is A number of "big name" just seems a little too similar threatening Annie because stars compose the cast, but to Thornton's debut effort, 
"The Gift" is a return for she has been advising Valerie they never do anything "Sling Blade." "Blade" seems filmmaker Sam Raimi. After to leave him. remarkable. Cate Blanchett to leave a residue on much of making the failed Kevin Eventually, Annie becomes has done much better work in "The Gift's" script both in Costner baseball drama "For engulfed in a murder mystery other films ("Elizabeth," in terms of setting and charac­the Love of the Game," Raimi, when popular town socialite-, particular); Hilary Swank ters. the director of cult films •· Evil Jessica King (Katie Holmes). exhibited more talent at being While such setting and Dead" and "Army of turns up dead. an abused redneck in "Boys characters work well in a Darkness," turns again to the Annie's visions lead police Don't Cry;" Katie Holmes l,las drama, they just seem to bog horror genre. Thankfully, the to find Jessica's body in trouble escaping her televi­down the horror aspects. audience pays the price -Donnie's pond. Now she must sion persona, and Keanu If Thornton wants to write a "The Gift" is use her gift to Reeves. well, he is probably horror movie or a thriller, he one scary help unravel extending himself as far as he has to escape some of the movie. "The Gift" the truth can go, which has never been trappings of "Sling Blade" and 
While it may 
behind the very far. extend himself. not have murder, all But the unremarkable per­However. none of these much beyond while protect­formances cannot be blamed flaws make the film any less its chills and ing herself solely on the actors. In fact, worthy in terms of what it is. 
out offive shamrocks 
thrills, it and her fami­they are less to blame than It delivers thrills and does it accomplishes ly. the script, written by Billy competently with a certain the goal of Director: Sam Raimi Solving the Bob Thornton (director of "All amount of visual flair. leaving the mystery is a the Pretty Horses") and Tom Although there are elements
Starring: Cate Blanchett, Greg
audience thoroughly Epperson. One is hard that keep it from excelling in 
fright c n ed. Kinnear, Giovanni Ribisi, Keanu enjoyable pressed to imagine what else a more general scope, it fits More than a Reeves and Katie Holmes ride; however. the actors could have done nicely into its niche. few viewers the superla-with such thinly developed "The Gift" is much more will have to tives should characters. enjoyable than many other leave the lights on when they stop there. Indeed, a whole aspect of horror films or thrillers that return home. Raimi's talent is evident; he the story involving Hibisi's have been released lately. It 
The story focuses on Annie creates some great visuals character is somewhat unnec­displays artistic maturity and Wilson (Cate Blanchett, "The that demonstrate artistic flair essary and makes the film it certainly surpasses the vast Talented Mr. Ripley"), a sin­beyond just throwing gore on drag at the mid-way point. wasteland of teen thrillers gle mother with the gift of the camera lens (a technique Also, the script fails outside that seem to have been filling extrasensory perception. grossly overused in recent of the characterizations. For the area of suspense films 
Annie works as a tarot card horror flicks). example, the setting of the s i n c e the s u ccess o f \Ve s reader for a colorful group of He also demonstrates a film, the swamps of the South. Craven's "Scream." characters in a small Georgia good sense of suspense by is rather perfunctory and has "The Gift" is a glimpse of town. Her clients include pacing the important been used before in other something better and leaves Buddy Cole (Giovanni Ribisi), moments of the film well. efforts. much to be expected from a gas station mechanic with However, although the While Raimi utilizes this Raimi's next project. in which psychological problems, and direction holds the film setting effectively, the film he will bring the Spider-Man Valerie Barksdale (Hilary together as an above average could have been more dynam­comic book series to the big Swank), a timid victim of her scary movie, the rest of the ic had it gone outside its screen. 


Id be buried 
hoped to profit from this and Louis CK. action and was planning on Anytime there are numer­kicking the poor sick people ous writers it is hard to see 
out onto the street. the original vision. Rock sees that what the Throughout the film, there 
tycoon was doing to the poor are times when Rock has to people of hide his Brooklyn is "Down to Earth" style of com~ 
wrong and edy in favor• 
quickly uses of something
his comedic more bland. 
skills and It just 
newfound out offive shamrocks doesn't fit. 
wealth to Also, Chris become a and Paul
Director: Chris and Paul Weitz
philan­Weitz are 
thropist and Starring: Chris Rock, Regina very uncre­win the King and Eugene Levy ative and 

heart of Suntee. 
In one or the film's rare moments of truth, Suntee continually comments on how she can see a different person in Wellington's eyes. She talks about how she sees the truth deep in his eyes, a sweet, loving person behind the facade of the tycoon. 
One of the many problems with "Down to Earth" is that the film is credited to six writers: Warren Beatty (the star of the film "Earth" is based on, "Heaven Can Wait). Rock, Elaine May, Lance Crouther. Ali Le Roi 
boring in 
their direc­tion. It will be interesting to­see if they go back to a gross-out movie like "American Pie" for their next film, because it doesn't seem like they can do any­thing else. 
All in all, to analyze "Down to Earth" any further is a waste of time. It's just not worth the effort. 
A line from one of Rock's routines may help illustrate just how bad this movie is: "I would rather get a tossed­salad than see this movie again." 
se unremarkable 'Gift' 


cene E 
Thursday, February 22, 2001 
page 13 

VIDEO PICK OF THE WEEK 
Photo courtesy ol USA Films 
Billy Crudup (right) and Jennifer Connelly star in "Waking the Dead," an emotional ghost story about a man's visions of his dead girlfriend. 
Emotionally intense 'Qead' touches a raw nerve 
By MATT NANIA 
Scene Mevie Editor 
Absolutely gripping from its first frame, "Waking the Dead" begins in 1974 with a young Fielding Pierce (Billy Crudup) being torn apart from the inside out as he watches news coverage of a car-bombing that killed his peace activist girlfriend (Jennifer Connelly). 
Although the movie has yet to reveal any­thing discernible about these two people, sim­ply watching Crudup shake uncontrollably in an eruption of tears is enough to take hold of your empathy through the heartbreak and borderline dementia that consume him throughout the story's decade span. 
"Waking the Dead." which opened back in March 2000, is an eerie, enigmatic, intellectu­al romantic tragedy about a rising politician haunted by memories of his 
murdered love. Adapted from Not only does Gordon have
"Waking the
the novel by Scott Spencer and confidence in his storytelling directed by Keith Gordon ("A abilities, but he also has enough
Dead"

Mid~ight Clear"), this complex, confidence in Crudup to let the engrossing film is masterful in under-appreciated actor take putting us inside Fielding's bro­his character to exhausting
Director: Keith Gordon 
ken-mirror mind. depths of grief and delusion.
Starring: Billy Crudup and
Sliding back and forward Gordon does the same for effortlessly between two time Jennifer Connelly Connelly, who is finally given an 
periods, "Waking the Dead" tracks both Fielding's cerebral and spiritual romance with Sarah (Connelly) in the years before her death, and his growing obsession with fleeting visions of her 10 years later as he's being groomed for a seat in congress. 
From '72-'74, Fielding is a determined ideal­ist. building a devoted relationship with Sarah, who has dedicated herself to a sanctuary movement in war-torn Chile. Turned on by each other's intellects and convictions, Crudup and Connelly powerfully portray a realistic screen love presence. Their flirting, their philosophical give-and-take and even their arguments are authentic and absorbing. 
Without Sarah to keep him grounded, by 1982 Fielding has become a district attorney, hand-picked by the governor to run in a spe­cial election for a senator's abandoned office. 
Now colder and almost perfunctory, he's on the verge of losing his soul to the political machine when he begins having visions of Sarah that shake him to his core and threaten his sanity. 
To call this movie a love story is a little lim­iting. The heart of the film is the relationship between the two leads, but the real focus is Crudup's character and the motions he takes in dealing with that relationship. Fielding is about to become everything he's always want­ed to be: a leader, someone who can make a difference, someone who stands for some­thing. But, under the glare of the microscope, his past starts to haunt him. He keeps seeing the woman he loved, the woman he has never been able to let go of, the woman who died 10 years ago. 
With each apparition, his world begins to unravel. His mind takes him deeper and deep­er into the past, until he can't tell whether he is self-destructing Gr finally coming to truth and closure. 
Normally, films progress from A to Z. But "Waking the Dead" jumps back and forth across a 10-year gap, and each period informs the other. In seeing Fielding later and seeing how he's changed since losing Sarah, we care about him much more. Going back and seeing those earlier love scenes has a great deal more poignancy and depth. It adds an extra layer of power because every time the story goes back to look at the past, we know about 
the future. 
opportunity to play a character of real substance (much like her role in "Requiem for a Dream," only more substan­tial). Here she gives the best performance of her career. 
"Waking the Dead," though, is Fielding's story, and Crudup, who's in practically every scene of the film, is terrific. His role is a very difficult one. On the one hand, Fielding is a very charismatic, Robert Kennedy-esque politician. But, on the other hand. he's some­one who's incredibly tormented, in a very spiritual, inner way. Crudup (last seen in "Almost Famous" and "Jesus' Son"), with his enormous range, is able to do both -bril­liantly. 
Despite the presence of some apparitions, "Waking the Dead" isn't a "Sixth Sense" type of thriller. There are no spooky "I see dead people" chills here. It is more of an emotional ghost story, in a quiet, uneasy way. Perhaps the most unsettling aspect of "Dead" is the fact that it is so intimately about one man's nervous breakdown. Watching a man crumble emotionally onscreen is not something we see often, and the sheer rawness of Crudup's per­formance alone is startling. 
The languid pace and intimacy of "Waking the Dead" will frustrate and disquiet many moviegoers, but it does what good art should: It rattles you, makes you think and makes you feel. 

page 14 

The Observer . SPORTS 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
No. 5 Spartans top Hoosiers 
Associated Press 
EAST LANSING, Mich. 
Michigan State's senior class tied a Big Ten record with 108 wins, but it would trade some of those victories for one fewer Big Ten loss this season. 
Andre Hutson had 15 points and Zach Randolph added 14 as the fifth-ranked Spartans (21-3, 10-3) beat Indiana 66-57 Tuesday night, again featuring their suffocating defense and tenacious rebounding. 
"The 108 wins is big, but the Big Ten championship would be so much sweeter," Hutson said. 'Tm definitely going to be rooting for Ohio State {against Illinois] on Thursday." 
To win a fourth consecutive Big Ten title, Michigan State has to win its final three con­feronce games and needs Illinois (21-5, 11-2, No. 4 ESPN/USA Today, No. 3 AP) to lose at least one of its final three. 
The 108th win for Michigan State's senior class tied the Big Ten record set by Indiana teams from 1972-76 and 1990­94. 

David Thomas had 11 points and eight rebounds for the Spartans. Basketball award, but he beat 58-46 lead with five minutes 
The Hoosiers (16-11, 7 -6) .Jeffries' Bloomington North left. had won four of their previous High School team for the state The Spartans shot just 42. 9 five games. championship. percent, but they turned 16 
Indiana's Kirk Haston, who He smiled when he was offensive rebounds into 20 hit a 3-pointer as time expired asked how it felt to outplay points and held Indiana to 35
"' 
to snap Michigan State's 23-Jeffries in a win. percent shooting.game winning streak on Jan. 7, "It felt good, but I'm not one "It wasn't easy and it wasn't had 18 points and fouled out. to brag on my game," always pretty, but it was a bigJared Jeffries scored nine Randolph said. "He's a good win for us," Michigan State 
points on 4-for-15 shooting. player and a good guy. We'll coach Izzo said. "We did the 
"I thought they were just too have more battles down the things that our team has done strong and physical for us," road." in the past."Indiana coach Mike Davis said. Indiana led after the first Former Indiana star Quinn 
It was clear that Randolph basket, but the Spartans con­Buckner, the point guard when was inspired to play well when trolled the game. Indiana set the four-yearhe had an extra bounce in his The Hoosiers trailed by dou­record in the mid-1970s, said step and a smile on his face ble digits for much of the first the Spartans will appreciatebefore the game. half and were behind by as their feat in the future much 
The Marion, Ind., native many as 14 points in the sec­more than they're able to now. missed a free throw in the final ond half, but they cut the "It's going to be really special minute in the loss at Indiana deficit to four three times. to them down the road, in 10 and he was the player guard­Michigan State scored on the years or so," Buckner said. "If ing Haston on the game-win­ensuing possession each time it was easy to do what they'vening shot. the Hoosiers cut the deficit to done and what we did, more 
Randolph finished second to four. It put the game away for teams would be able to say Jeffries for the state's Mr. good with a 7•O run to take a they won that many games." 
.. 

Thursday, February 22, 2001 

Duke exterminates Yellow Jackets, 98-54 
Jackets to start the second
Associated Press 
half. 

DURHAM, N.C. Georgia Tech had three 
turnovers and missed three

Jason Williams scored 25 points and Shane Battier had shots in its first six posses­
16 Wednesday night as Duke sions as Duke scored the first (No. 3 ESPN/USA Today, No. 4 13 points. Mike Dunleavy had AP) handed Georgia Tech its consecutive 3-pointers during most lopsided loss in 29 the run, the second making years, 98-54. the score 61-30 and sending Duke (24-3, 11-2 Atlantic the crowd into a chant of Coast Conference) has won 88 "More than double." Dunleavy 
finished with 18 points.

of 89 against unranked oppo­nents, including 24 in 
St. John's 73

straight. The 44 points was Duke's largest margin of vic­No. 21 Georgetowon 70 tory this season. Freshman Willie Shaw 
Georgia Tech (15-10, 7-7), bounced back from a score­which had won five of its last less game against Duke with seven, had its worst loss since 16 points Wednesday night 118-73 to North Carolina on and St. John's beat No. 21 Feb. 12, 1972. Georgetown 73-70. 
Battier, who had his No. 31 Shaw missed all eight of his jersey retired in a ceremony shots, including five 3-point­before the game, had a ers, in the 91-59 loss to No. 4 turnover on Duke's first pos­Duke, the Red Storm's worst session and missed his first defeat at Madison Square three shots, but ignited two Garden in 41 years. But key first-half runs. against the Hoyas, he hit his 
Battier had a steal that led first three 3-point attempts to a dunk and a three-point and the last of his four 3s play, followed by a long 3-came with 1 :32 to play and pointer that capped a 14-0 gave the Red Storm (14-11, 8­run midway through the first 5 Big East) a 71-65 lead. half. That put the Blue Devils Anthony Perry hit a 3-point­up 29-15 as the crowd at er 13 seconds later for Cameron Indoor Stadium Georgetown (20-6, 7-6). Kevin bowed toward Battier. Braswell's steal and layup 
Battier started a 7 -0 run to with 1 :07 left brought the 
end the first half with a Hoyas within 71-70, but Omar blocked shot that led to a 3-Cook got the lead back to pointer by Chris Duhon. That three with two free throws sequence was part of a 20-5 with 24 seconds left. run to close out the half as Georgetown's final chance Duke built a 54-30 lead. at a tie was a 3-point attempt 
Duhon ended the run with a by Braswell with 5 seconds steal and a three-point play left, but it bounced off the rim with 18 seconds left. and Sharif Fordham of St. 
Battier also had seven John's grabbed the rebound, rebounds, four assists, three his career-high 16th of the steals and three blocked game to go along with a 
shots. career-high 15 points. 
Georgia Tech had 20 The win snapped a two­turnovers and made just 10 of game losing streak for the 36 shots in the first half. Red Storm, who had lost four 
It got worse for the Yellow of five and five of seven. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid, The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the righr co edit
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Reliable, quality childcare needed 2 Houses, side by side, still avail. Ann Marie --marketing is your 
in my home tor 2-year-old and For 2001-02. Rent one or both, 4 female dog•-you're money WANTED infant. Part-time hours are 2-3 LOST AND FOUND BR & 6 BR, Furnished, beach V· PERSONAL 
SUMMER HELP NEEDED • TEACHER ASSIST ANTS The Early Childhood Development Center at the University of Notre Dame is looking for college stu­dents who enjoy young children. If you would be interested in spending the summer, June 7-August 3-40 hours per week, assisting the chil• dren and teachers on field trips, reading children's books, building with blocks, singing songs, playing games and assisting with lunch, please call 631-3344 to receive an application and more information. FUN IN THE SUN!!! 
BLACK FEMALE ROOMATE IN CASTLE POINT $350 271-7195 
Ex ND staffer and spouse want to rent your apt. for summer. Non­smokers no pets. Have rented from students for past 12 summers. Write 135 Lakeview Dr. Mulberry FL 33860 call 863-425-4404 
Models Wanted Females Long black or dark brown hair for portrait & glamour photography Call chuck @ 616-687-2539 hrs/day, 3-4 days/wk with 1 Saturday a month. Majoring in early childhood development or child­hood education with own trans­portation a plus but not necessary. References required. 

Phone 288-6795 
Summer camp positions: Make a difference in the life of a child! Summer therapy camp for children with disabilities. Located on shore of Lake Superior near Big Bay, Ml. Positions avail• able for Counselors, lifeguards, Instructors for Nature, Arts & Crafts, Recreation, Canoeing, Nurses. Therapists, Food Service and Auxilary. Must be enthusiastic, responsible and love children. June 17 through August 12. Call or write for applica­tion and information. Bay Cliff Health Camp, 310 W. Washington, Suite 300, Marquette Ml 49855, {906)228-5770, e-mail BayCliffHC@aol.com 
Make $5,500 in summer &/or start 
now. 

Set own hours -need hard work & good social skills. Call 4-2765 
SIZEABLE REWARD OFFERED: For a lost gold and silver bracelet with alternating silver and gold blocks, if found please contact Rachel Phillips at 4-1492 or email phi11ips.75@nd.edu 
Lost-Reward Class Ring. Blue stone with small ND dark finish with '01 inside. Call Todd al 246-9085 
FOR RENT 
3-6 bedroom homes furn. Near campus 2001/02&summer 272· 6306 
3.5 bedroom homes close to campus 232-2595 mmmrentals@aol.com 
All the good houses are not gonel Available 4 bedroom. Available 2 bedroom. Dave 291-2209 macos@michiana.org 
2-4 person house tor rent. Newly renovated three blocks from cam­pus call 219·298-3800 ball, W/D, prime location, 233-9947 Greg 
FOR SALE 
$$ Get paid for your opinions!$$ Earn $15-$125 and more per sur­
vey! 

www.money4opinions.com 
PHONE CARDS $20 2601 MIN WITH 49 CENT SUR­CHARGE or $20 362 MIN WITH NO FEES 
634-1146 CLAUDIA 634-4210 SARA 
NORDIC TRACK FOR SALE. GOOD CONDITION. $250 O/b/o 289-2370 
SPRING BREAK DOWNTOWN 
CHICAGO! $22·25/night-hostelling lnt'I $2 OFF WITH AD 312/360-0300 or www.hichicago. org Full time Ph.D. student research fel• lowships are available in the Cell and Molecular Physiology Graduate Program of Loyola University Chicago. Reasearch areas include ion channel molecular biology, biophysics and biochem­istry, cardiac electrophysiology, cal­cium dynamics and excitationcon­traction coupling, signal transduc­tion, neurophysiology, and neural and immune components of trauma and injury biology. Applications are sought from individuals motivated to become biomedical research scien­tists. See our web page at www.meddean.iuc.edu/iumen/Dept Webs/physic or contact Dr. Stephen B. Jones, Department of Physiology, Stritch School of Medicine, Loyola University Chicago, 2160 South First Avenue, Maywood IL 60153. Telephone (708) 327-2470, e-mail sjones@iumc.edu. Loyola University is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer. 
Happy Birthday Kate 

Dubbs Diesel -go out there and kill somebody tonight Steely Dan won best album? Thats like some guy you thought was dead winning an oscar for the film "SMC presents The Vagina Monologues" 
Worst episode ever 
Let's list some beers: Coors, Coors Light, Bud, Bud Light, Bud Dry, Bud Ice, Bud Dry Light, Bass, Amber Bock, Rolling Rock, Hooch, Tequiza, Duff, Pete's Wicked Ale, Sierra Nevada Pale Ale. 
Kevin Heffernan will hook it up this weekend--1 00% garunteed 
Jen: I hope you feel better, thanks tor coming with me tonight. You're the best girlfriend ever, don't forget it. •Gooberhead 
Anne Marie and Eminem's wile -a match made in the basement. 
Noah hasn't watched 90210 in weeks, the withdrawal is killing him. 
Kerry, I need your help. COME BACK!!! 

¦ 
Thursday, February 22,2001 page 15
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Calendar of Events 

Monday, February 5 through February 23 
Sign-up for Senior Retreat #5 
(March 2-3, 2001) 

Pick up applications at 103 Hesburgh Library or print one out online 
at www. nd.edul ,.,minisbylseniorform.htm/, 
Monday. February 19 through February 23 
Sign-up Notre Dame Encowiter Retreat #65 (March 30-April 1, 2001) Pick up applications at 103 Hesburgh Library or print one out online at www.nd.edu/ ,-,ministry/ndeform.htmJ 
Thursday. February 22. 6:30 p.m. 
201 DeBartolo 
RCIA Study Session 
Friday, February 23, 3:00 p~m. 
Morrissey Chapel 
807 -A new Mass on Friday Nights 
Friday-Saturday, February 23-24 
Angela House 
Coro Primavera Retreat 
Friday-Saturday, February 23-24 
Sacred Heart Parish Center 
Freshmen Retreat #34 
Friday-Sunday. February 23-25 
Central Illinois 
Handbell & Celebration Choir Tour 
Sunday, February 25. 1:30 p.m. 
Zahm Hall Chapel 
Spanish Mass 
Presider: Fr. J. Steele, c.s.c. 
Sunday. February 25, 2:00 p.m. 
McKenna Hall. CCE 

Confirmation: An Afternoon ofRecollection 
Sunday, February 25. 8:00 p.m. 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Notre Dame Collegium Concert 

Beginnipg Monday, February 26 -March 26 
Sign-up Freshman Retreat #35 (March 30-31, 2001) Pick up applications at 103 Hesburgh Library or print one out online at 
www.nd.edu/ ,.,ministrylfresbmanfonn.htm/, 
Monday-Tuesday, February 26-27, 
11 :30 p.m.-10:00 p.m.St. Paul's Chapel. Fisher Hau Eucharistic Adoration ' 
Tuesday. February 27, 7:00 p.m. Badin Hall Chapel 
Campus Bible Study 
Wednesday, February 28 Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Ash Wednesday Liturgies 
11:30 a.m. and 5:15 p.m. 
Wednesday, February 28, 1Q:00 p.m. Morrissey Hall Chapel 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Eighth Sunday in Ordinary Time 

Weekend Presiders 
• Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Saturday, February 24 Mass 

5:00 p.m. Rev.Richard V. Warner, c.s.c. 
Sunday, February 25 Mass ~. 

10:00 a.m. Rev. David J. Scheidler, c.s.c. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. Patrick M. Neary, c.s.c. 
Scripture Readings for this Coming Sunday 
1st Reading  Sir 27: 4-7  
2nd Reading  1 Cor 15:54-58  
Gospel  Lk6: 39-45  

Make every day count 
by Fr. John Herman,c.s.c. 
87 days. Only 87 days stand between today and the gathering of family and friends in the Joyce Center for graduation to celebrate the many accomplishments of their daughters and sons, their brothers and sisters and their friends during these past four years at Notre Dame. The Class of 2001 will join the ranks of the alumni of this great university that day, and will move on to the next chapter of their lives, wherever that will take place. It may not be time yet to run over to the Bookstore for those Notre Dame packing boxes, but it's all rapidly approaching, isn't it? 87 days .... 
It's not n1y intention to get you seniors into a countdown to lift off. My hope is simply that you will realize just how precious the time is that you have left here as Notre Dame students. There are so many other college students who tried to get in here four years ago and still would give anything to be students here, even if for only the time that you have remaining. To be at Notre Dame is a privilege that a relatively few people will ever enjoy. To 
be at Notre Dame is a gift from  
The challenge of living in the present is  God.  Realizing this, what are  
you going to do with the time  
not just a challenge for seniors about  that you have left here?  How  
to graduate.  It is so easy for all people  are we going to make the most  
of it all?  
to lose the present, either bound up in  Although questions about the  
rest of this semester may seem  
the past or riveted on the future.  The  good and appropriate, the  
present is where life is. The present is  question that probably feels  
much more pressing for many  
where our friends are..  The present is  seniors is more likely the one  
that everyone is asking them ­ 
where God is.  The present is every- that dreaded question  _ "What  
thing. Right here.  Right now.  are you going to do after  
graduation?,, Many seniors  

cannot even begin to answer that question. Those who can answer it have other questions that weigh heavily on them regarding where they will live, what their lives in "the real world" will be like, who their friends will be, etc. So many questions about the future! There is a danger, however, in the focus that seniors can have as they look to answer questions about their future beyond Notre Dame. The danger is that in focusing on the future we may lose a sizable chunk of the present, of today. We may not be able to live today for today. We may not be able to see the great gift that today is or that it can be for us. We may lose some of our most important moments at Notre Dame to our preoccupation with questions about the future. 
The challenge of living in the present is not just a challenge for seniors about to graduate. It is so easy for all people to lose the present, either bound up in the past or riveted on the future. The present is where life is. The present is where our friends are. The present is where God is. The present is everything. Right here. Right now. Ideally, we would be fully rooted in the present and engaged by the present while at the same time learning from the past and preparing for the future. There is something more for us to discover or learn here, some new way for us to grow, some new challenge for us to embrace. There are many gifts yet to be found in the present. It's not over yet. 
How might we make the most of the time that we have remaining at Notre Dame? What are some things that we might do to take advantage of the meaningful opportunities that still lie before us here? There are so many possibilities ... talk with that inspirational professor not just about class material but about life. Get over to the Center for Social Concerns and do that service project that you had always intended to do. Reconcile with that former friend from down the hallway. Ignite or re-ignite your faith and your relationship with God by coming to "No Greater Love" on Saturday, March 24. Get up for breakfast at least once for a bowl of Grape Nuts with your friends. Take time to give thanks to God and to people who have cared so much and given so much of themselves. So many possibilities abound. 
There are also two more special opportunities for seniors to gather with other seniors for prayer and reflection on their time here at Notre Dame and on the way that God has been a part of this experience. It gives Seniors a chance to reflect on how God might be calling them to live their lives and their faith beyond graduation. Senior Retreats #5 (Fri.-Sat., Mar. 2-3) and #6(Fri.-Sat., Apr. 6-7) are opportunities for seniors to step away from the pressures of this final semester to focus a bit on what has been a11d what will be that they might find more meaning and peace in the present, in the time left here at Notre Dame. 
Every day ofour lives is a gift from God. Don't just countdown the days that remain until graduation. Make those days count. 
C-M 
Campus Min•scry 

....--..---------·...----------·-··..,.-·-------...,-----------·-----------------......--....--..-..._-----•.• 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 22, 2001 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Tennessee leapfrogs Notre Dame into top spot in AP poll 
. Volunteers return to No. 1 for first time since 1999; Huskies are No. 3 
Associated Press 
Tennessee replaced Notre Dame at No. 1 in The AP women's basketball poll Monday, a familiar spot for the Vols but one they had not held since 1999. 
It was the 89th appearance at No. 1 for Tennessee (26-1), which received 33 of 40 first­place votes and 992 points from the national media panel. Though Tennessee has been No. 1 more often than anyone, the Vols' last appear­ance at the top had been Feb. 16, 1999. 
Louisiana Tech is second in 
No. 1 appearances with 83. 
Tennessee moved up from 
No. 2 after Notre Dame lost 
for the first time, 54-53 at 
Rutgers on Saturday night. 
The Irish {23-1), who had 
been the last unbeaten team 
in Division I, slipped to sec­
ond with four first-place 
votes and 950 points. 
Connecticut (22-2), which 
beat Rutgers 70-45 three 
days before the Scarlet 
Knights pulled their upset, 
held at No. 3 with three first­
place votes and 938 points. 
Tennessee made it back to 
No. 1 with the help of a last­
second shot. Michelle Snow 
took an inbound pass with 
1.1 seconds left and hit a 12­foot shot to give the Vols a 75-7 3 victory over LS U in their only game last week. 
Coach Pat Summitt's team has won 15 straight since an 81-7 6 loss to Connecticut on Dec. 30. The last 10 have been without two-time All­American Tamika Catchings, sidelined by a torn knee liga­ment on Jan. 15. 
Notre Dame spent four weeks at No. 1, moving to the top for the first time in school history after its Jan. 15 victo­ry over Connecticut. The Huskies led the poll in the 

Several matchups between Top 25 teams caused a scrambling in the poll, which had only Connecticut, No. 12 Xavier and No. 25 Iowa in the same places as last week. 
Baylor was the lone new­comer, returning at No. 24 after a two-week absence. Washington dropped out. 
Georgia moved up one spot to fourth, Purdue climbed two places to fifth and Louisiana Tech went from eighth to sixth. Duke fell three places to seventh after a 69-55 loss to North Carolina State, matching the Blue Devils' lowest ranking this season. 
No. 8 Oklahoma and No. 9 Rutgers each climbed two places. Road losses to Colorado and Kansas dropped Iowa State four spots to 10th. 
Florida slipped two places to 11th after losing to Mississippi State and was fol­lowed by Xavier, Utah, LSU, Texas Tech and Colorado. North Carolina State, Vanderbilt. Penn State and Southwest Missouri State completed the Top 20. 
The final five were Wisconsin, Texas, Arizona State, Baylor and Iowa. 
Baylor, which had been ranked three out of four weeks in January, has bounced back from a three­game losing streak to win its last three. When the Bears first joined the poll on Jan. 8, it was their first national ranking in 23 years. 
Washington, which came in last week at No. 23, dropped out after splitting two road games. The Huskies won at Oregon State but lost to Oregon in overtime. 
North Carolina State made the biggest jump within the poll, going from 21st to 17th after its upset of Duke, which had won its two previous games last week by 20 points each. 
Southwest Missouri State's fall from 15th to 20th was the biggest drop. The Bears lost at Northern Iowa 99-80 on Sunday after beating Bradley 81-55 two days earlier. 

Undergrads • Graduate Students 
• 
Fulfill a distribution or general education requirement 

• 
Accelerate progress towards your degree or minor 

• 
Earn full-year credit in foreign languages and physics 

• 
Live on campus -35 miles south of San Francisco 

• 
Over 200 classes offered in more than 50 departments 


Courses such as: Physics, Economics, Biology, Engineering, Music, Computer Science, Philosophy, Drama, Classics, Athletics, Intensive Languages, Chemistry, Psychology, Mathematics, Anthropology, Sociology, Urban Studies, Art 
Stanford University Summer Session Building 590, Ground Floor• Stanford, CA 94305-3005 Ph(650) 723-3109 •Fax(650) 725-6080 • Email: summersession@stanford.edu 
summersession.stanford.edu 
UND211l 

LISA VELTE/The Observer 

Forward Ericka Haney skies to the basket on Jan. 15 as guard Alicia Ratay watches. The No. 3 Huskies sit right behind the Irish In the Associated Press poll. 

csc 
CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL 
CONCERNS 

SUMMER INTERNSHIP OPPORTUNITIES WITH... 
ACCION 
A MJCROLENDTNG ORGANIZATIONASSISTING SMALL BUSINESS OWNERS WITH POOR CREDIT HISTORY TO OBTAIN LOANS TO IMPROVE AND BUIW THEIR BUSINESSES 
10-12 WEEK INTERNSHIPS AVAILABLE IN: ALBUQUERQUE CHICAGO EL PASO NEW YORK CITY SANANTONIO SAN DIEGO 
BENEFITS: COMPETITIVE COMPENSATION 3 COLLEGE CREDITS HOUSING PROVIDED BUSINESS EXPERIENCE 
Applications available at the Center for Social Concerns and MCOB Undergraduate Office 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: FEBRUARY 20, 2001 
INTERVIEWS FEBRUARY 21 & 22 AT THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 

Thursday, February 22, 2001 page 17
The Observer . SPORTS 
NBA 

Stackhouse powers Pistons past Knicks with 32 points 
Associated Press 
Jerry Stackhouse scored 32 points Wednesday night, sur­viving a fourth-quarter rally by the Knicks. 
The Pistons led by as much as 23 and entered the fourth quar­ter with a 77-58 lead only to see it almost disappear. 
New York got back into the game with a 16-4 run to open the final quarter and to cut its deficit to 81-74 with 5:37 left. The Knicks made it 87 -85 with 
24. 3 seconds left, but they could not get closer in a game they never led. 
Detroit's Joe Smith scored 20 points and Chucky Atkins added 16. The Pistons blocked a season-high 12 shots. 
New York's Marcus Camby had 24 points and 11 rebounds. Glen Rice scored 16 and Kurt Thomas added 12 off the bench for the Knicks, who have lost five consecutive road games. 
New York's Allan Houston and Larry Johnson picked up their fifth fouls early in the third quarter. 
Houston, who fouled out with 
22.4 seconds left, finished with eight points while Johnson missed all five of his attempts and did not score. 
The Pistons led 20-15 after the first quarter and 45-37 at halftime. Both teams missed 20 of their first 27 shots in the first half. 

Detroit went on a 9-0 run early in the third to take a 56­41 lead. It outscored New York 10-1 later in the quarter and led 75-52, its largest lead of the game. 
76ers 107, Grizzles 91 
Allen Iverson had 36 points Wednesday night, snapping the Grizzlies franchise-record five­game winning streak. 
Iverson shot 13-for-17 from the line as the Sixers won their fifth straight. 
George Lynch had 16 points and 10 rebounds, and Eric Snow had 11 points and seven assists for Philadelphia, which improved to 21-2 when scoring more than 100 points. Matt Geiger added 10 points and a season-high 10 rebounds, and Tyrone Hill finished with 12 rebounds. 
Shareef Abdur-Rahim had 27 points for the Grizzlies, who are 0-5 in Philadelphia and 1-10 against the Sixers. Michael Dickerson scored 16 and Mike Bibby added 14 points and six assists. 
The teams combined for 84 free throw attempts on 52 per­sonal fouls and eight technical fouls, three of which were ille­gal defense violations against Philadelphia. 
Leading by seven points early in the fourth quarter. Philadelphia scored six straight points, including five by Iverson on a driving layup and a 3­pointer, for a 90-77 advantage with 8:23 left. 
The Grizzlies closed within seven, 90-83, with 6:14 remain­ing, but the Sixers scored seven straight points to seal the win. 
The Sixers led by as many as 10 in the third quarter, taking an 80-70 lead on a 19-foot jumper by Rodney Buford with 51 seconds left. Philadelphia led by six at the end of the quarter. 
The Grizzlies made just one of their first eight shots and trailed 11-2 early in the first quarter. Vancouver rallied and scored 11 of the last 12 points in the quarter for a 29-22 lead. 
Philadelphia opened the sec­ond quarter· with a 14-3 run. Iverson scored eight and Geiger added seven in the outburst as the Sixerswent on to build a 51­50 halftime lead. 
Suns 100, Heat 85 
Cliff Robinson scored 25 points and Shawn Marion had 16 points and 18 rebounds as the Phoenix Suns beat the Miami Heat Wednesday night. 
Rodney Rogers added 22 points and eight rebounds for Phoenix, which won for the eighth time in 11 games and improved to 2-1 on its road trip. 
Brian Grant scored 21 points and reserve Anthony Carter added 19 as Miami lost its third straight game. The Heat, who had won 11 of their last 12 home games, had not lost three consecutive games since November. 
Miami nearly had its 561­game 3-point streak snapped. But Carter hit a 3-pointer with 21 seconds left to extend the streak. Miami last failed to con­vert a 3-pointer on Jan. 19, 1994. 
The Suns closed out the first half with an 18-6 run, capped by Shawn Marion's dunk, for a 54-40 halftime lead. 
Phoenix built its lead to 62-43 in the first three minutes of the third quarter. The Suns shot 50 percent in the quarter and led 80-55 at the end of the period. 
Nets 113, Raptors 111 
Stephan Marbury had 35 points and a season-high 14 assists and the New Jersey Nets made 13 3-pointers -their most since joining the NBA in 1976 -and beat the Toronto Raptors Wednesday night. 
Marbury scored 14 of his points in the fourth quarter as New Jersey opened a 13-point lead, allowed Toronto to come back and tie it and then got lucky at the end as Vince Carter missed the first of two free throws with 3. 3 seconds remaining and a chance to tie the game. 
Carter finished with 39 points for Toronto, waich lost for the third time in four games. 
Keith Van Horn added 28 points for the Nets but made just one of two free throws with 
2.2 seconds left. That gave the Raptors one more chance, but Mark Jackson was way off on a 3-point attempt from the corner at the buzzer. 
Lucious Harris made four 3­pointers and scored 16 for the Nets, while Kenyon Martin added 15 points. Marbury also had four 3-pointers, and Van Horn tied his career-high with five 3s. 
Morris Peterson added 17 points and Jackson 16 for Toronto. 
Neither team seemed particu­larly interested in playing defense, and the game had an offensive pace that is rare in the NBA these days. 
The Nets looked to run their offense capitalizing on the speed of Marbury against the slow-footed Jackson, while the Raptors continually tried to exploit the matchup of Martin trying to defend Carter. 

escape the 
Give a cold shoulder to your "usual" night out & warm-up 
your winter with a sizzling taste of summer: a tender filet (13 991, 
t-bone (17.991 or our specialty, 12oz. of USDA prime New York 
strip (14.95}. Lighter options, too! 
FRllAY3 
All-You-Can-Eat Fish Fry
Lake Perch, fries & coleslaw, 8.99 
NOW OE£N" RR. 1A'IE NKHr DININ3 FRILA Y & &TI.HAY 
222 S MICHIGAN, SOUTH BEND 
219-234·5200
s1 COVER (WITH COLLEGE ID, MUST BE 21) AND LOTS OF OTHER STUFF FOR A BUCK, TOO. CALl llfE HEARTlAND CONCERT & MNT LINE 219.251.2568•MORE PICTURES@WWW.HEARTLANDSOUTHBEND.COM 


page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursd~y, February 22, 2001 

NHL 

Lemieux overcomes injured back to score game-winner 

Associated Press 

i 
l PITTSBURGH 
\ ) The Pittsburgh Penguins almost wanted Mario Lemieux to take the night off and rest his sore back. Good thing for them he didn't. 

Lemieux, not expected to play, scored a power-play goal 2:10 in overtime and the Penguins rallied after Lemieux 

squandering 
-a two-goal lead in the third period to beat Florida 3-2 Wednesday night. 
The goal kept Lemieux from going without a point for three consecutive games for only the second time in his career. The first time came in March 1997, several months ·before he retired. 
Lemieux played despite hint­ing strongly Tuesday he might sit out because of the recurring back pain that has troubled him since he injured himself in practice Feb. 9. He missed nearly 150 games because of back pain during his first 12 NHL seasons. 

"The back was pretty much the same," said Lemieux, who was averaging more than 25 minutes a game recently despite the sore back. "We got the [ice] time down to about six or seven minutes a period, where we wanted it to be." 
Lemieux skipped the pregame skate Wednesday, and decided to play only after receiving therapy and back massage for most of the afternoon. 
"The best thing for him prob­ably would have been to stay off and rest, but this shows his drive and passion," defenseman Bob Boughner said. "It was tremendous for our team." 
The Panthers didn't manage a shot until nearly 22 minutes into the game and trailed 2-0 when Alexei Kovalev scored at 
5:24 of the third, only to tie it on goals by Pavel Bure and 
i 
·' 
LA~T CHANCE, ONLY AfEW lHi! ~fACE~ ARE rltLmG fA~T, APfLY TODAY TO GET THE BE~T ~ELECTION Or i-BEDROOM~ AND 
,, lBtDROOM TOIHOM~ fOR THE-Wijl,1001 ACEDEMIC YEAR CAlt in-~n~ rOR fURiHER DeTAIL~! 
---·•~----------------·----------­
) 
} 
' 
{ 
/
{ 
ATTENTION ALL STUDENTS 
interested in the Rhodes and Marshall Scholarships Professor Walter F. Prat~ Jr. will discuss the scholarships and inform you of 
deadline dates and the Fall application process on Tuesday, February 27th 
6:00 p.m. 101 Law School 
If you are unable to attend this meeting, asheet of information may be obtained [n 102.B O'Shaughnessy Hall after the meeting date. 
Viktor Kozlov. 

But the Penguins -1-for-32 on the power play against Florida dating to last season _ got a chance to win it when Florida's Vaclav Prospal was 
called for cross-checking Darius Kasparaitis at 1:43 of overtime. 


Work for the OFFICE OF ~ THE PRESIDENT· 
L ......• .li.LUSJ:Si22211 :: A X!!i::.S I $Cl)$ :ea: I uaxa c.: •• 
Work wnh the Athletic Depanment: Davalop Beard 01 Trustees Repons; sen, on Spiritual and Diversnv cammmaes; Help Plan Founder's Dav; Assist with Public Relations, Programming, Pollcv, Acade11ics, Student Services, Saclal Action, Webpage/Tecnno1oov, and more 
Applications for all positions for the 2001-02 school year can he picked up in the Student Government Office, 203 LaFortune, starting February 21st. Act quickly...Jhe deadline is February 25th~ 

Thurday, February 22, 2001 

The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
Kessler 
continued from page 24 
"He shot more free throws than our entire team," said Skinner, whose team only went to the line 14 times. "We have a first team all-league player too and he only shot throo free throws. There was contact on both ends. It's difficult to win games on the road when one player shoots more free throws than our entire team." 


The reason Murphy shot so many free throws was because he was consistently mugged in the post. Obviously Bell, a jump shooter, isn't going to go to the line as often. And if that logic was too long winded for coach Skinner, Murphy summed up the discrepancy after the game. 
"They fouled me more than we fouled their whole team," he said. 
t.l1e 
Skinner may be calling foul play, but perhaps he should take some of his own advice. 
"The numbers tell the story," he said following the game. That's right coach Skinner; they do. Notre Dame 76, Boston College 75. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NASCAR 
Earnhardt buried in private ceremony 
Associated Press 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. 

Dale Earnhardt was buried in his hometown Wednesday in a private service, even as his team prepared to return his car to the track. E a r n ­hardt was 
laid  to  
rest  in  
K  a  n  - 

napolis with only immedi­ate family members attending, an Earnhardt com­pany employee said, speaking on condition of anonymity. The exact location was not disclosed. 
A memorial service for the seven-time Winston Cup champion is planned for Thursday in Charlotte and will be televised live on Fox Sports Net. 
Earnhardt, 49, was killed Sunday on the last turn of the last lap in the Daytona 500. He slammed into the concrete wall after making contact with Sterling Marlin at the head of a tight pack of five cars fight­ing for position. · 
While his family said good­bye, his team at Richard Childress Racing was planning to enter his car in Sunday's Dura-Lube 400 at North Carolina Speedway in Rockingham. 
Kevin Harvick, a Busch Grand National driver for :l,CR, will take over Earnhardt's car for the rest of the season, a team source said, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
The 25-year-old Harvick, the Busch Series' Rookie of 


:7-Ley (Beff.::s. ... 
fl_re you int:.erest:,edin liearing TVliat:. your Class Candidat:.es lia'Ve t:.o say? 
~ 
...... 
~ 
~~-w-
~ 
s -w-~ 
...... 
flt; Saint; !JW..ary's College 
Thursday February 22nd Carre>ll ALtdite>ri-u..m 
Class ef2004: 7:00pTn Class ef2003: B:OOpTn Class ef2002: B:30pTn 
Free pizza to those 1n_ atter1dan_ce 
the Year last season, will drive Earnhardt's Chevrolet and use his crew. Kevin Hamlin, Earnhardt's crew chief, will head Harvick's team. 
The car will not use the No. 3 or the black-and-silver scheme that was Earnhardt's trademark. Details of the number and colors Harvick will use were still being / worked out, the team source said. 
Harvick was scheduled to move up to Winston Cup rac­ing next season as the third car in Childress' garage. Mike Skinner also drives a Cup car for RCR. 
Meanwhile, NASCAR and the rest of the Winston Cup teams are still working out how to honor Earnhardt this weekend. 
There had been speculation that the three cars Earnhardt owned -driven by Dale Earnhardt Jr., Steve Park and Daytona winner Michael Waltrip -would be painted black this weekend. But a spokesman for Dale Earnhardt Inc. said that was unlikely. 
Instead, the cars will sport some sort of decal. 
John McKenzie, president of Motorsports Designs in High Point, said the company was working with RCR and Earnhardt's widow, Teresa, to create a decal for all Winston Cup teams to use. 
McKenzie said he submitted five designs to Teresa Earnhardt and RCR, and was awaiting final approval. 
"It will be commemorative decal produced by their authority, on their approval. and distributed by RCR to the racing community only," McKenzie said. 
He would not reveal what the five designs looked like, only saying they had "the components that represented Dale Earnhardt and every­thing that is synonymous with him." 
A spokesman for Joe Gibbs 
Racing said drivers Bobby 
Labonte and Tony Stewart 
want to honor Earnhardt but 
are waiting to see what devel­
ops with the decals. 
"We've talked about and I'm 
sure all the teams want to 
honor him in some way," Tim 
Sullivan said. "We're just 
waiting to see what the appro­
priate way to do that is." 
NASCAR said it would not 
require the Winston Cup 
teams to do anything to honor 
Earnhardt. 
"We are in the discussion 
stage of trying to put some­
thing together as a tribute that 
is consistent with what DEi 
and RCR would want," said 
spokpswoman Danielle 
Humphrey. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
-Used Books bought and sold -25 Categories ofBooks 
-25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock -Out-of-Print search service -Appraisals large and small 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne · South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 22, 2001 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
No. 3 Hope blows out Saint Mary's 95-48 in MIAA playoffs 

By KA TIE McVOY Assistant Sports Editor 

The Saint Mary's basketball team fin­ished off its season with a great effort but disappointing results in a 95-48 loss to Hope College in round one of MIAA tournament play. 
"I thought we gave a great effort," said head coach Suzanne Smith. "Things didn't go our way but we went out there and went after it." 
Unfortunately, No. 1 ranked Hope (23­2, 15-0 in the MIAA) went after the win as well. With every Flying Dutch woman scoring at least two points, Hope came out victorious. 
"They have incredible depth," Smith said. "They just keep bringing people in off the bench. They outlasted us." 
Hope head coach Brian Morehouse played all 13 women that sat on the bench during the game, bringing in his team's 19th straight win of the season. The last time Hope lost a game was Dec. 7. 
The aggressive Saint Mary's team just couldn't compete with Hope's tough defense. The Flying Dutch kept the Belles from taking many shots, and held the team to 30 percent from the court during the second half. 
"I thought we were pretty aggressive. 
We looked to push the ball to push the 
basket," Smith said. "That's what we 
said we wanted to do." 

Rebounding caused trouble for the 
Belles again, as the Flying Dutch 
grabbed 52 boards to Saint Mary's 34. 
"They out-rebounded us pretty bad," 
Smith said. 

In addition to missing rebounds, Saint 
Mary's sent Hope players to the foul line 39 times during the course of the game, costing the team 34 points. The Belles only tagged on 12 points from foul shots. 
Senior Julie Norman led the Belles in scoring during the last game of her col-· lege career. 
"Julie Norman played a good game for her last game," Smith said. 
Norman totaled 13 points and three rebounds. Sophomore Katie Christiansen and junior Kelly Roberts each added eight points and Roberts totaled seven rebounds. 
Hope senior Kristen Koenigsknect made school history when her first bas­ket of the game made her one of only six women in Hope history to have scored 1,000 points or more in her career. Koenigsknect's total of six points brought her total number of points to 1,004. 
Freshman center Laura Geurink came off of the bench to lead the Flying Dutch both offensively and defensively with 21 points and six rebounds. Amanda Kerkstra added 12 to the effort, and teammate Kim Pett totaled eight points for the game. 
Despite the disappointing end to the season, Smith felt that it was a good year for her team. 
"I think if you really look at where we came from, although our wins came early, we improved immensely," she said. "We really took some steps for­ward." 
Saint Mary's finished 8-17 overall, a 
much better record than last year's 
four-win season. 
The Flying Dutch, ranked third in 
NCAA Div. III women's basketball, will 
take on Calvin College (12-13} tonight at 
7:30. 

NEWS EDITOR Applicants should have news reporting, writing and editing skills. The News Editor man­ages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story and series ideas and is responsible for the content of the news section each day. 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR Applicants should have editorial, writing and editing skills and an ability to deal with the public. The Viewpoint Editor manages a staff of copy and layout editors and columnists and decides what letters will run each day. 
SPORTS EDITOR Applicants should have sports reporting, writing and editing skills. The Sports Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story ideas and special sections, arranges travel accommodations for reporting trips and is responsible for the content of the sports section each day. 
SCENE EDITOR Applicants should have features writing and editing experience. The Scene Editor man­ages editors, reporters and columnists, generates story ideas, and is responsible for the con­tent of the Scene pages each day. 
PHOTO EDITOR Applicants should have photography and developing experience. The Photo Editor man­ages a staff of photographers and lab technicians and must work closely with News, Sports and Accent department editors in assigning photographs. 
ADVERTISING MANAGER 
Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The Advertising Manager oversees an assistant and a staff of account executives and is responsible for gen­erating advertising revenue. 
DOROTHY CARDER/The Observer 

Julie Norman works out with the Belles recently. The senior put in 13 points for Saint Mary's Wednesday night In her final collegiate game. 

is no.tJ accepting applications for the 
2001-2002 General Board 
AD DESIGN MANAGER 
Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of QuarkXpress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager oversees a staff of designers, works closely with advertising and marketing departments and is responsible for the design and layout of advertisements. 
SYSTEMS MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge of computer networking. The Systems Manager maintains and updates the Macintosh network and printers and is responsible for training the entire Observer staff on the use of the system. 
CONTROLLER 
Applicant must be a freshman majoring in accounting or finance at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. The Controller is responsible for preparing The Observer's operating budget and taxes, accounts payable, cost-tracking and other transaction duties. 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR 
Applicant must be familiar with building and maintaining a World Wide Web site. The Web Administrator is responsible for working with the editorial departments of The Observer in order to update and archive the content of the site each day. The Web Administrator also must be able to expand the capabilities of the site. 
GRAPHICS EDITOR Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and a working knowledge of Free Hand and/or Adobe Illustrator. The Graphics Editor oversees a staff of designers and must work closely with News, Sporu and Scene to match top-quality graphics with the content ofeach day's newspaper. 
Any full-time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. A three-page statement ofintent and a resume must be submitted by Friday, Feb. 23 to the basement ofSouth Dining Hall. 
) I 
I J 'i 
Thursday, February 22, 2001 

The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
Irish 
continued from page 24 
the hoop and pulling up at the left elbow for an off-balanced floater. The shot sailed through the net to make the score 76-75 Irish. 
"He made a hard move toward the basket," said Boston College coach Al Skinner. "Those are the kinds of moves, sometimes, that win basketball games." 
Following an Eagles timeout with 3.7 seconds to go, the Irish just needed to hold on. To cling to their lead, they'd need to blast Boston College's plan of letting loose Troy Bell, a candidate for Big East Player of the Year. 
Graves let loose on Bell, knocking the ball away from the Boston College point guard near the Eagles' 3-point line. Ingelsby snared the bouncing ball at the buzzer as the Irish swiped the victory. 
"You don't try to steal the ball, you just tap it, in those situa­tions, because you don't want to get any contact." Graves said. "You just want him to bobble the ball, and luckily, he did." 
The win, which followed a 
Sunday loss to Seton Hall, was 
Notre Dame's 18th, the most 
regular season victories since 
1988-89. It pretty much erased 
any lingering doubts about Notre 
Dame locking up its first NCAA 
Tournament berth since the 
same year. 

A 14-0 Irish run to start the second half shotgunned them into the lead. After trailing 39­34 at the intermission, Notre Dame burned right through Boston College's defenses. 
"We kind of asked ourselves, 'Why not us?"' said forward Ryan Humphrey. "Everybody felt that we played tentatively, we played kind of soft, and we came in at halftime and talked 'about what we'd have to do. We'd have to get the ball to certain players and commit to playing defense, and that's what we did." 
Humphrey. still nagged by a sprained ankle last week, lit the spark on the Irish explosion with one of his game-high 14 rebounds and one of his six blocks. It was a big production for someone Brey was thinking about resting. 
"I was even thinking about not playing him this morning. Maybe we just sit him out and get him healthy," Brey said. "Of course, at pre-game meal, he didn't want to hear any of that, and I wasn't going to wrestle 
h. ,,
Im. 

Harold Swanagan took Humphrey's cue by hitting a reverse lay-up and the ensuing free throw. The Irish then began their work of shutting down Kenny Harley and Kenny Walls, who combined for 27 points in the first period, but went score­1ess in the second stanza. Switching from zone to man-to­man defense was a factor in that 
The University of "lotre Dame Department of ,',,\usic Guest Artist Series presents 


Smithsonian Trio 
Maril;11 McDonald. baroque violin Kenneth Slowik. viola da gamba © baroque cello James \Veaver, harpsichord 
A Tribute to Johann Sebastian Bach 
Sunday, February 25, 200 I 2 pm, Annenberg Auditorium Snite Museum of Art 
Tickets required: $3 students • $6 senior citizens $8 ND/SMC employees • $IO general admission Tickets are available at the Lafortune Box Office, 
(219) 631-8 I 28 




For more information. please call (2 l 9) 6.3 l -H20 l.emailcongoers@nd.edu. or visit www.nd.edu/-con~oers 
IJ 
l 
U) C 
IJ 
a. 
0 

Friday, February 23, 2001 
9-llpm Joyce Center Ice Rink 
sKate Rental is $2. 


shutdown. 
Ingelsby rebounded a failed Harley putback, taking it coastal, but dishing off to Humphrey at the last second. Humphrey ham­mered home the dunk, getting fouled in the process. 
Carroll grabbed the long rebound, one of his 11 in the game, and sent it back through the hoop with a 3-pointer from the left wing. The Irish kept it up with an Ingelsby steal and another trey by Carroll. 
"You see a guy who's a good shooter, but he's a complete basketball player." Brey said. "He was guarding Bell down the stretch." 
At the Eagles' end, Murphy nabbed a rebound. and Humphrey tried to cap off the run by throwing a lob into Murphy. His pass was off, but the Irish were glad, as the toss dropped right through the net for a behind-the-arc shot, just the fifth of his career. 
But Bell, who was quiet with just five points in the first half, brought his team back into it. He scored 10 in the second half, and Jonathan Beerbohm added nine. 
"Never was he able to get on a roll that broke our backs," Brey said of Bell. 
The Irish got the best of their Catholic school rivals in the end. 
Murphy hit 13-of-18 free throws from the charity stripe to boost his team to victory, with Carroll's 17 points and Humphrey's 15 coming up big as well. 
"Good teams rise to the occa­

sion," Murphy said. 
With three games remaining 

before the Big East 
Tournament, the Irish are close 
to a stranglehold on a West 
Division title. They rest two 
games ahead of Syracuse (20-6, 
8-5) and three ahead of both 
Georgetown (20-6, 7-6) and 
West Virginia (16-8, 7-6), with 
the top two division finishers 
earning a first-round tourna­
ment bye. 

WHAT BROTHERS THINK, 

WHAT SISTAHS KNOW 
The REAL deal on love and rela-tionshipsll 
Thursday, February 22, 2001 LaFor-tune Ballroom 8pm 
Sponsored by NAACP, MSPS & S-tuden-t Ac1"ivities 


page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 22, 2001 


Bouts offer fighters chance to compete, support cause 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Sports Writer 

Brian Hobbins mused over what the Bengal Bouts means to him for about a half-second before giving his reply. 
"It's the best thing I've ever done in my life," the senior co-captain said. "It's defined everything about what I've done at Notre Dame." 
And if you ask just about anyone else on the boxing club, they would agree with Hobbins. 
When the 71st annual Bengal Bouts begins today, it's more than just another annual boxing competition. It's a chance to raise money for an important cause. 
Since Dominic "Nappy" Napolitano took over the boxing program 1932, the Bengal Bouts have been held every year to raise money for the Holy Cross mis­sions in Bangledesh. Last year, Bengal Bouts raised some $70,000 breaking their old record by nearly $21,000. This year, the captains of the boxing club set a higher goal. 
"We're hoping to raise $71,000 and 
one cent," Hobbins said. 

Hobbins realizes this is a rather lofty 
goal and said he realistically expects 
somewhere around $50,000. 

But this isn't just a casual tournament 
thrown together by Don King to raise a 
buck. This is real, Olympic-style boxing. 
The boxing club began their most 
intense training right after winter break 
ended. They practiced for about three 
hours a day, six days a week. 

According to Hobbins, a typical prac­
tice begins with 30 minutes of concen­
trated calisthenics, a combination of push-ups, sit-ups, jumping jacks and jump rope. Then, the boxers spend some time working on boxing funda­mentals before actually getting in the ring and sparring. 
All of the practices are led by the cap­tains who, as Hobbins says, "do all the stuff." 
The captains, seniors Hobbins, Josh Thompson, Dennis Abdelnour, Peter Ryan and juniors Rob Joyce, Mark Criniti and Matt Fumagalli, handle everything from coordinating practices to managing logistical issues. 
"It's a paper tornado," Hobbins says about the boxing office. 
But the captains are more than simple coaches or organizers. They help the younger boxers, and not just in the box­ing ring. 
"There's things outside of just the team, and someone who might be scared might see us for advice," Hobbins says. "They just look at you as someone who's been there." 
It is this attitude that exemplifies the spirit of Bengal Bouts. When Napolitano coined the slogan, "Strong bodies fight that weak bodies can be nourished," he had no idea that it would survive seven decades and become one of the most identifiable icon ½ith the charity boxing tournament. It is the selflessness of the boxers that keeps the spirit of the Bengal Bouts thriving," said Hobbins. 
"God gave you every advantage, and 
we have so much," he said. "We have to 
give ourselves up to give help to others." 
The Bengal Bouts begin today at 7 :30 
in the Joyce Center with preliminary 
bouts. The action continues on Feb. 26 
and 28, with the tournament culminat­
ing in the March 2 finals. 

COME \VATCH 12 REALLY NICE GUYS ACT LIKE 
T ELVE ANGRY 

• the original • Broadway production 

•THE PLAYERS• 

Matt Vereecke  Matt B iergans  
Joe Fagan  Tim O'Malley  
Greg Haake  Tom Hoffman  
Mike Griffin  Brad Metz  
Nate Wills  David Halm  

Mark Holloway Joey Pietrangelo 
with Jim Gallagher, Neil Wack, and Eric Schimmel 
Moreau Selllinary Auditoriun1 
(Northside of St. Joe Lake, directly across from the Dome.) 

Fri/Sat, Feb. 23-24 

8:00 p.lll. 
Freewill offering for Holy Cross Missions 

"A staggering achievement for first-time director, Matt Kutz" 

¦ 
, ' . 

) -. . .. .. "' 
--. , ~ . ~ , 
Thursday, February 22, 2001 

The Observer . TODAY page 23 
FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY TYLER
THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 

THE J'ANET RENO VIRUS: 
SAME DESIRED RESULT. DECIDE[)LY LESS EFFECTIVE. 
Fox TROT BILL AMEND 
You REALLY ARE TRY­
I SAVED ING To CUT 8ACI<. 
\
YOU A 
CUP. r'"""' ,, 
\ 






CROSSWORD 

ACROSS 25 & 27 Where the 49 Pelvic parts 
U.N. is in 51 Baltimore1 With 63-Across, Manhattan N.F.L.ers

author of the quip starting at 28 Like Salome S4 When M77 17-Across 31 In motion Sunset Strip" 
aired: Abbr. 
6 Chicago sights 33 Soak S5 Batter's base, 
9 Baltic country: 34 MYours truly" maybeAbbr. and the like 56 End of the quip35 & 37 Middle of13 Rest against 

S8 Once, once
the quip15 Waikiki gift 59 Electric
38 Rears 16 Cruising 60 Beachgoer's
39 Name for a king burden-or a queen?

17 Start of a quip 61 Sleek fleet40 About three 19 w_ be a cold 

grains of troy 62 Cunning
day in hell ... " weight 63 See 1-Across 20 Routing word 
41 Deli order 21 Add spice to 

45 Columbia, e.g.: DOWN 22 Jazz trumpeter Abbr. 1 Major producers Baker 46 Rare string of oil 
23 To be, at the 48 Santa's 2 Mideast native Sorbonne reindeer, e.g. 3 False rumor 
4 Enero to enero ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE s Falls apart 6 Hard to pin PLWle by EJizabelh C. Gorski down 
26 Address 39 With refinement 47 They're for the 7Name birds
29 Dracula and 41 Commit a court 
immortalized by 
Poe others infraction 50 liberal pursuits 30 They have a lot 42 Bar order 
52 212 initials8 Indications of pull 43 Spun, as a story
9 Secular 53 Put belowdecks
32 Speech sound 44 Solzhenitsyn, 1o"Really?" 34 Langston e.g. 57_polloi
11 Watch a 
Hughes's "_ monitor, say Unashamed~ Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 12 They hold your 35 Online are available by touch-tone phone: 
horses merchants 
1-900·420-5656 {95¢ per minute).14 Actress Carrie 36 Most gutsy 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 18 Hardly refined 37 Like caresses best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 24 Author Welty 38 Writers' bloc years: 1 ·888·7·ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.. edu/ 


EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2001 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON for your home. Be sure to save THIS DAY: Julius Erving, Drew some for a rainy day. 000 Barrymore, Edward Kennedy, VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Sybil Leek, Michael Chang, Travel will lead to long-distance Bobby Hendricks romance. Don't be too eager for 
Happy Birthday: You can intimacy. Find out all you can have the best of both worlds if about this intriguing individual you're prepared to work hard before you give your heart this year. You have the stamina away.000 coupled with brilliant ideas. Now LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): all you have to do is believe in Your personal life may not be yourself and forge ahead, You're going the way you want it to, the only one holding you back, so but you can make major moves lighten up and start the ball in your profession. Don't miss rolling. Your numbers: 15, 23, 27, opportunities at work because 36,41, 44 someone is playing with your 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): heart,000 Your boss will let you know if SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): you haven't been pulling your You will be able to take a break weight. Get some of your house­from your personal troubles il holcl chores out of the way before you get out with old friends. the weekend, 000 Physical activities will help 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): relieve the stress. 0000 Partnerships will be hot. You SAGITfARIUS (Nmc 22-Dec. 21): have the know-how to take over Personal problems will mount. and get things done. Don't be You need to distance yourself surprised if someone asks you to from the situation. Property deals lead a group. 0000 can go through, but sort out your 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): financial position first. 00 Emotional outbursts will cause CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan.19): embarrassment and a lack of New relationships will develop respect. You must contain your with people you meet at a wed­feelings, regardless of the circum­ding or social gathering. Don't stances. Don't be sidetracked by let others sway your opinion. individuals who enjoy making Follow your heart and see where trouble. 00 it leads you. 0000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
People from your past will sur­You can come up with some face. Don't be too quick to pick pretty good ideas that will help up where you left off. You turn your financial situation 
.... 
shouldn't be moving backward. aroW1d. Don't let your lack of self• You already have a problem let­confidence hold you back. 000 ting go of the past. 000 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Money Your active imagination may take you don't have to work for, such over if you let it. Dreams of dis­as winnings, rebates, surrenders tant lands and foreign cultures or gifts, snould come your way. will lead }'OU to organizations that You can make valuable purchases can offer the knowledge. 000 
Birthday Baby: You are an action person, but it's really the excite­
ment that draws you. You like to be in the center of, and excel at, 
activities that interest you. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
IC 2001 Universal Press Syndicate 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
The ObserverMake checks payable to: 

P.O. Box Q
and mail to: 

Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name _____________________ ..,, Address ____________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
• 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Ingelsby's final shot saves Irish 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Associate Sports Editor 
It could have been ugly. 
Troy Bell and the Boston College Eagles chipped away at a nine-point Notre Dame lead until the Irish edge disintegrat­ed and the Eagles pulled ahead 75-73 with two minutes, one second to go. 

But the Irish refused to let the Eagles crack their composure. The Irish are busy making space on the Joyce Center wall for a Big East Championship banner, the first conference title ever by a Notre Dame men's basketball team, and a Boston College win would have gotten in the way of earning that ban­ner. 
"We have a championship­level team," said Irish coach Mike Brey. "Our guys really believe they are going to win the game." 
So Notre Dame (18-6, 10-3 Big East) nudged its effort level into overdrive in order to come away with a 76-75 victory over Boston College (19A, 10-3), its top com­petition for the league title. 
The Irish got everyone involved in the upset of the No. 10 Eagles. 
All-American forward Troy 
., 
•r! Murphy and sophomore guard Matt Carroll, who recorded his first ever double-double Wednesday, stayed in on the action down the stretch. Murphy, fouled before Notre Dame could inbound the ball with 1 :28 to play. hit one of two free throws. 
Carroll seized his 11th rebound in the final minute after BC's Kenny Harley missed a shot near the free throw line. 
But two players who were quiet most ofthe night emerged from the backdrop to take cen­ter stage -senior point guard Martin Ingelsby and junior small forward David Graves. 
Notre Dame called a timeout with 21.4 seconds left in regula­tion. The plan was to score off a set play, hopefully finding Murphy in the low post. but the Eagles' defense barricaded that option. Time was running out on Notre Dame with little wiggle room for a misfire. 
Luckily, the 5-foot-11 Ingelsby knew just what to do. He took on the burden of securing the win himself, dribbling towards 
J see IRISH/page 21 

Float like a butterfly 

First round Bengal Bouts, benefiting Holy Cross Missions in Bangladesh, start tonight in the Joyce Center. 
p.22 

O
THE page 24 BSERVER Thursday, February 22, 200 I 

ERNESTO LACAYO/The Observer 
Irish point guard Martin lngelsby attempts his winning last second jumper. The shot gave Notre Dame the 76-75 win and moved Notre Dame to 10-3 in Big East play and 18-6 overall. 
Emotion flows for victors 
Irish head coach Mike Brey blindsided senior point guard Martin Ingelsby and jumped onto his back as students poured onto the Joyce Center floor 
Wed­nesday night. 
How fitting. 
After all, it was lngelsby 

who car­ried  Brian Kessler  
Notre  
Dame on  
his back in the  Sports Writer  
final  

moments of a thriller against No. 9 Boston College and led them to a 76-75 victory. 
With time winding down and the Irish trailing by a point, Ingelsby drove the lane, leaned into a defender and put up a prayer from the left elbow. 
It was answered. 
Eagles' guard Troy Bell raced down the court with 
3.7 seconds left, but junior David Graves poked the ball away from behind to secure the win. 
"It was from the heart," said Brey about jumping onto lngelsby. "I was really 
excited for him." 

"We were trying to get the ball inside, but they did a good job of denying it," lngelsby said of the final sequence. "I saw the lane, got by and hit a lucky shot." 
That lucky shot propelled the 18-6 Irish into first place in the Big East conference. They share the best confer­ence mark (10-3) with the Eagles, but now own the tie­breaker since the two teams will not meet again during the regular season. 
"This team has the chance to hang the first league championship banner," Brey said. "I drew a picture of one on the board before the Seton Hall game. This is new territory for these guys, but they're ready to handle it. No one deserves it as much as they do." 
It seems no one deserves Big East player of the year honors more than Troy Murphy. Wednesday night's game was built up as the Battle of Troys, with the vic­tor likely walking away with the award. The Irish literally one-upped the Eagles and Murphy got the better of the showdown with Bell. Each player went the entire 40 minutes with neither man shooting particularly well. But Murphy scored 23 points on 4-of-12 shooting and grabbed eight boards, includ­ing seven in the second half. 
Bell only scored 15 points on 5-of-12 shooting and had nine rebounds. However, he committed five turnovers and only had one of his four assists in the second half. 
Murphy went to the line 18 times, connecting on 14 of the shots from the charity stripe. 
Boston College coach Al Skinner voiced his displea­sure with that statistic at the post-game press conference. 
see KESSLER/page 19 

FOOTBALL 
Sheridan expected to join ND 
By TIM CASEY Assistant Sports Writer 
Bill Sheridan, the lineback­ers coach at Michigan State since 1998, will be hired by Notre Dame pending a routine b a c k ­
ground check for prospective football coaches. 
T h e 
Michiga·n State sports information 

office con-Sheridan firmed Wednesday that Sheridan has 
officially left that university but would not elaborate on where Sheridan was headed. 
Sources at Notre Dame indi­cated that Sheridan is in South Bend and has been in the football office for the past few days. 
Sheridan has been offered a position and will be announced as a coach if he passes the mandated tests, including a check of any pos­sible police and criminal records. He is expected to become the safeties coach at Notre Dame. Former safeties coach Lou West left to become Toledo's defensive coordina­tor. 
Notre Dame also has to fill 
two other coaching positions. 
In the past few months, wide 
receivers coach Urban Meyer 
left to become the head coach 
at Bowling Green and sec­
ondary coach Jerry Rosburg 
was hired as the special teams 
coach for the Cleveland 
Browns. 
The Observer learned on 
Feb. 13 that Joker Phillips, a 
former Minnesota assistant, 
would be hired as one of 
Notre Dame's assistants as 
well. Like Sheridan, Phillips 
has been offered a job but 
must first pass the various 
background checks. As of 
Wednesday, no official 
announcement has been made 
for either position. 
"We haven't filled any of our 
vacancies yet," said John 
Heisler, director of Notre 
Dame sports information. "We 
haven't officially hired any­
body for any of these posi­
tions, regardless of what you 
may be reading." 

Baseball vs. Georgetown
at Kansas State 
; 
at Texas San-Antonio Saturday, 1 p.m. 
Friday, 2:30 p.m. 
SPORTS ~ 
Friday, 7 p.m. 
; ATA • ­
Softball 
vs. Northwestern at Virginia Tech
?;t • at Arkansas Tournament rt)
f' Saturday, 11 a.m. . Saturday, 2 p.m.
,1.: Fayetteville, Arkansas 
,!) .. GLANCE •
Friday, 12 p.m. 
.1! 
'if.~, 
,, 






