
Saint Mary's senior becomes an inventor
SUNNY 
Tuesday 
Sarah Kofflin will soon have a patent for a specific hydro gel used in
HIGH 79o 
SEPTEMBER11,
medical research and created during a summer internship.
Lowso0 
news . page 3 
2001 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 11 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

Officials confirm U2 performance 
• Ticket pre-sale for students begins Thursday 
By SAM DERHEIMER News Writer 
Putting an end to months of rumors, Irish mega rockers U2 have been officially slated to play the Joyce Center Oct. 10, according to Joyce Center events manager Joe Sassano. 
Tickets for the show 'will go on sale Saturday at 10 a.m. However, there will be a pre­sale for-all Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross stu­dents Thursday at 6 p.m. 
General admission floor space will cost $45 while seats will sell for $85. 
Beginning at 3 p.m. Thursday, box office officials will distribute slips of paper that guarantee students will receive one of the first spots in line. Students can receive one slip of paper for each stu­dent ID they present. Students may present up to two IDs. 
Starting at 4 p.m., those slips of paper will stop being distributed. Anyone holding a slip of paper will be given a lottery number at 4 p.m. 
If a student does not have a slip of paper, the student will not receive a lottery number. 
There will be a lottery num­ber drawing held after all the numbers are distributed. The number that is drawn will be the first student in line. 
Any student without a lot­tery ticket will still have the opportunity to buy a ticket, those students will simply fill in behind students with lottery tickets. 
Sassano said this system was put into place to keep stu­dents from being tempted to skip class and camp out for tickets. "We've used this sys­tem for all the recent mega events," Sassano said. "It has kept everybody happy." 
Sassano said that since stu­dents who start waiting in line before 3 p.m. are treated the same as "those who show up at 
3:59 p.m., this method cuts down on the mayhem and security risks that usually accompany ticket sales to major events. Anyone who obtains a lottery ticket has an equal chance to get front-row tickets. 
see U2/page 7 


St. Mary's tops U.S. News rankings again 
student to faulty ratio. By MYRA McGRIFF U.S. News & World Report 
Assistant News Editor 
gave Saint Mary's an over all score of 100, weighing in 

U.S. News and World Report above schools such as Taylor has named Saint Mary's University and St. Norbert College the No. College. 1 Midwestern "Saint Comprehensive "We will look at the Mary's is College. becoming
categories and look

Saint Mary's increasingly 
has earned this for areas to improve." well known ranking six out for its excel­of the last seven lent faculty,
Marilou Eldred 

years. small class

College president

"The ranking size and aca­
is a verification of what we know as the quality of Saint Mary's has remained strong over the years," said College President Marilou Eldred. 
Saint Mary's reign at the top of list can be attributed to what President Mary Lou Eldred calls, "a combination of factors." 
U.S. News and World Report uses several factors to rank schools including first year retention rate and graduation rate as well as weighing the 
demically 
strong stu­dents," said Karen Ristau, vice president and dean of faculty, in a press release. 
Even with the No. 1 ranking in hand, however, Saint Mary's will still try to improve. 
"We will look at the cate­gories and look for areas to improve," Eldred said. 
Contact Mvra McGriff at rncgr0l8l@saintmarys.edu. 



Judicial Council tries e-mail voting 
By ERIN LaRUFFA 
Associate News Editor 
Off-campus Notre Dame stu­dents began sending in ballots Monday to elect a student sen­ator to represent them the rest of the year. Unlike previ­ous off-campus elections, however, students are voting via e-mail. 
"We're trying something new," said Tim Jarotkiewicz, president of the Judicial Council, which oversees all undergraduate elections. 
In the past, off-campus stu­dents have had to go to a cen­tralized location on campus to cast a paper ballot. 
Jarotkiewicz explained that Judicial Council accessed stu­dent records through the Office of the Registrar and created a listserv for all off­campus undergraduates. Monday, the council sent an e­mail to the listserv to explain the off-campus senator elec­tion. Voting began Monday at 8 a.m .. and students have until Wednesday at 5 p.m. to vote by replying to the e-mail. 
To guarantee a secure elec­

"We're trying new ways to reach this group. " 
Tim Jarotkiewicz Judicial Council president 
tion, voters must use their own Notre Dame e-mail accounts with their unique AFS id and password. Students must also include their full name and address in the text of the e-mail, accord­ing to John McCarthy, Judicial Council vice president in charge of elections. Votes are checked against a list to make sure that voters do in fact reside off-campus. Otherwise, McCarthy said, a student's vote will be thrown out. 
"We know that everyone has an AFS id and e-mail account issued by the University," Jarotkiewicz said. 
He and McCarthy will print out each response and then count the ballots. They will actually begin counting today, and plan to post the results on the Judicial Council Web site on Wednesday night, McCarthy said. 
Voter turnout has been tra­ditionally low for off-campus elections, according to McCarthy and Jarotkiewicz. They said they hope the e-mail system will make it easier for students living off campus to vote. 
"We're trying new ways to reach this group. We know they want to stay involved in campus life, but turnout has been low in the past because it's difficult to know how best to reach them," said Jarotkiewicz. "We've tried having voting booths in O'Shag, LaFortune and DeBartolo without a lot of suc­cess." 
E-mail voting is not an entirely new concept at Notre Dame. It has been incorporat­ed into past elections, includ­ing for students studying abroad, according to John Bauters, former Judicial Council vice president in charge of elections. He said he believes the system works well for off-campus elections. 

"E-mail is universally acces­sible for off-campus students," 
see ELECTIONS/page 4 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Tuesday, September 11, 2001 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Running on 


empty 
It sounded something like this: glug glug 
sputter gurgle glug. 
Then: Nothing. 
And with that, my seemingly never-ending 
week of anxiety, stress and 
trauma reached the ulti­mate low point Friday when my car ran out of gas a mocking 25 feet from the gas station. Smack dab in the middle of the intersec­tion my car just bumbled to a stop -the first car in a long line waiting to take a 

left turn. 
Kerry Smith 
I closed my eyes and banged my head on the steering wheel as all the Assistant dreadful incidents of the 
Managing
past week flashed in my 
Editor 
mind. 
Hypothetically, it should have been a great week. I had just turned 21 and classes hadn't really put a damper on being back yet. 
But. realitv bites and last week it bit hard. As issues turn.ed into problems and problems turned into disasters, filling my deceptive gas tank. which likes to run out when· it's suppos­edly a quarter full, was the last on a very long and depressing to-do list. It was one of those weeks when I just needed someone to be nice to me. Someone except my roommates who love me unconditionally and always make me feel better. I needed someone random to sur­prise me. And when I ran out of gas, I got enough surprises to last me through next week. 
After a split second of self pity and disbelief. I slowly got out of the car, dreading having to face all the people who were forced to stop, pull out around me and maneuver a path through the traffic. I just couldn't handle their glares boring into the back of my head and their comments as they filed past. 
So as I lifted myself out of the car and waved a pathetic apology to the man driving the car behind me, I was shocked when he laughed and smiled some of my embarrassment away. 
When I ran over to the gas station, I dreaded having to point out my car and explain the situ­ation to the cashier, who seemed to be one of 25 people in the tiny store. She looked at me point blank and said: We have no gas can. Typical for the way the week was going. 
Again I was shocked when the man next to me, who moments before had muttered that he was late and was in a rush offered to drive me to the next gas station. Then he offered to wait around while the manager went to double check if they actually did have a gas can lying around in the back garage. And when the manager rustled one up, the man offered to go fill up my tank so I didn't have to face poten­tially perturbed drivers weaving around my stalled car. 
I refused his kind offer, and upon darting out into traffic to fill my car, an elderly and sourly looking woman rolled down her window. Her comment: Don't worry, honey. It happens to the best of us. 
I was overwhelmed at the sympathy and understanding that so many strangers showed me after I had done something so rtdiculous as to create a huge traffic jam. 
And it surprised me. Who knew that the seemingly lowest point of my week would turn into the highlight. 
The lJiews expressed in the Inside Colztmn are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe ObserlJer. 

CORRECTIONS /CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional pub!icarion and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. 'We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a misrake, please contact us at 631-4 54 l so we can correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) i, published Monday ,hwugh Friday except during exam and var.;ation pc:riod!.. The Observer ,s a mc:mber of thie Associarcd Press. All reproducnon rights are reserved, 


QUOTES OF THE WEEK 

"We weren't that  "/ want their  
concerned with  memories to live on  
times. We were just  and I feel like this  
trying to drag the  will help us all to  
freshmen along."  remember and to  
celebrate their lives. "  
Todd Mobley  
cross country runner on the  Lisa Sestile  
Valparaiso Invitational  senior class secretary  
on T-shirt signing event  

"This is myfavorite place on earth. No place compares to Notre Dame. No place I've been all over the world ... I think it's the greatest place on earth." 
Regis Philbin television personality on Notre Dame 
"Obviously, we weren't a very well prepared football team. I take responsibility for that." 
Bob Davie head football coach on losing to Nebraska 

Compiled from U-Wire reports

BEYOND CAMPUS 

Family, friends still hold hope for missing student 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. 
Ryan Katcher's photograph smiles ·upon all who enter the Katcher home foyer in Oakwood, Ill. Delicate silver chains drape over his immortal image and hold a pendant upon which the word hope is inscribed. 
Hope is the only word left for Ryan's 
mom, Linda Katcher. No one has seen 
Ryan, her only son. since November of 
last year. 
The sequence of emotions is an unending cycle for his mother. 
"Once you go through all lhis, you've made it through the end," Linda says, sitting on the couch in her living room. "Then you go back to the beginning, start over again." 
Stephanie Katcher, Ryan's sister and a University of Illinois graduate, said she has tried to go on living her 


lil'e. 

"When Ryan comes back, I don't want him to see a wasted person," Stephanie said. 
Ryan -who would be a junior in commerce this year -still is missing 
today. 

Por Ryan Katcher, the first weekend in November last year was similar to every other. 
Ile unloaded his dirty laundry in his house and went out with his girlfriend on Friday. On Saturday, he went hunt­ing with his friend Travis and later joined some high school friends at a local party; his friends said they dropped him off early the next morn• ing. 
But no one has seen Ryan since about 2 a.m. on Nov. 5. That Sunday, his name joined those of the 98,000 other missing persons in the United States. 
Every other Sunday, Ryan would go to services at a Methodist Church in Danville with his girlfriend. Or he would wake early and go hunting with his friend. 
UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA 

Pledge dies after drinking rituals 
A complaint filed against the Phi Delta Theta fra­ternity at the University of Arizona for its alleged role in the death of one of its pledges depicted a Labor Day weekend initiation filled with drinking rituals and one night of prostitution. The complaint stated that the weekend of drinking commenced on Bid Night, Sept. 1, 2000 at the Phi Delta Theta house, 17 45 E. Second St. At the party, all pledges, including James Haley -who died in a motorcycle accident after the weekend -were required to drink alcohol continuously from 6 p.m. to 6 a.m. Haley had a 0.102 blood alcohol level at the time of his death. A nation­al Phi Delta Theta fraternity regulation mandates that all chapters be dry, meaning their facilities must be entirely alcohol-free. On the night after Bid Night. the lawsuit alleges incoming members of Phi Delta Theta were taken to Nogales, Sonora for "extensive consumption of alcoholic beverages and other ritual activities, including, for some individuals, the use of prostitutes." 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

AccuWeather'" forecast for daytjme conditjons and high temperatures 



Wedne~day 
Thursd~y Friday ) 
::~;t' ­
(t. \r•--,. v-'" --. _, 
"____Q,QAGQ (f ~ 
howers T-storms Aain Flurries Snow Ice Sunn Pl Cloudy 
ta Associated Prsss Grapf'ucsN6t · 

YALE UNIVERSITY 
Mother criticizes school 
With her daughter Natasha Smalls, home after dis­appearing five weeks ago in South Africa, Glory Smalls has publicly criticized Yale University for not doing enough to find her 20-ycar-old daughter, who was studying at the University of Natal in Durban, South Africa. Glory Smalls has also blamed racism for what she sees as the U.S. State Department's lackadaisical approach to the case. Natasha Smalls' whereabouts were unknown from Aug. 1 until she telephoned home on Aug. 23. With the help of friends in Johannesburg and Durban, she boarded a plane and returned to New York on Aug. 27. A friend of' Natasha Smalls who helped her prepare for the flight from Durban reported that she was disturbed and incoherent. At an early-morning press conference at John F. Kennedy International Airport on the day of her return. Glory Smalls criticized Yale's lack of supervision of study-abroad programs. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather"' forecast for noon.Tuesday, Sept. 11. 

~.......­........... 
COLD WARM STATtONARY
ether nc. -----­
D D CJ D D D 
Showen Rain T-etorma Flurrlea Snow Ice Sunny Pt Cloudy Cloudy 
Vl6 M60CID/ttd Pti!'H 
Allanta  84  67  Las Vegas  95  75  Portland  61  54  
Baltimore  BO  57  Memphis  87  62  Sacramento  82  55  
Boston  75  56  Milwaukee  73  60  SL Lours  82  62  
Chicago  77  59  New York  80  59  Tampa  87  74  
Houston  84  65  Philadelphia  81  61  Washington DC 83  63  



Tuesday, September 11, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Sullliner internship leads to patent for St. Mary's senior 
By SARAH NESTOR News Writer 
As most of us made plans to see the latest movie or relaxed by the pool 
working on our tans this sum­mer, Sarah Kofflin, a S a i n t Mary's senior, was 


diligently Kofflin working in a chemistry lab. 
Her internship was a research experience for undergraduates (REU) through the University of Pittsburgh. Sarah obtained the information about the program from a Wel.J site that focuses on REU opportunities. Once in Pittsburgh Sarah was assigned her advisor, Eric Beckman, and given a project. 
"A student's greatest challenge is turning classroom chemistry into practical chemistry. Where Sarah greatly exceeded one's typical expectations of an under­graduate is that she dug into the literature and identified the like­ly mechanism for the gelatin, we might have spent a lot of fruitless hours looking at thLc; if Sarah had not uncovered it," said Beckman. 
What was unusual about Kofflin's internship project was the outcome. What started as a project is now in the process of getting a patent and Kofilin will be listed as one of the co-inven­tors. At the beginning Kofflin worked as a lab technician before receiving her ultimate project. Kofflin helped to develop a new mechanism for producing a hydro gel that main use was for making paper. Kofflin's specfic hydro gel, a substance that at different temperatures can either be a liquid or a solid, now has a possibility of being utilized in medical research. 

experiments and the results were not always what she expected. While this caused her frustration she was also interest­ed in working out the problems. 
"Getting started is probably one of the hardest parts because you are given the project but then it is up to you to get the background research so that you can figure out the direction you want to take your experiment in." Kofllin said. 
"It's interesting because you may uncover something that you never expected but it can also leave you wondering why some­thing is turning out the way it is," Koffiin said. 
decide if the patent has potential economic value and then a patent attorney can be contact­ed. 
"From what I understood, in filling for a patent it is important to be very precise since a small change in procedure can be the difference between one patent and another," Koffiin said. 
After the University okays the patent an application is then written and filed by the attorney in Washington, DC. The patent is then examined to ensure that it is a new invention but this can take months to years. Kofllin and her advisor hope they will have the patent by the time Kofflin 

"We hope it can be used in In the end Koffiin's hard work graduates in 2002. 
tissue engineering," said has paid off as the patent 
Koffiin. process for her work has started. 
While the work was not phys­The first step in applying for a ically demanding a lot of patent is to file an invention dis­thought went into her work. closure with the University Contact Sarah Nestor at Koft1in had to perform many patent committee, they have to nest9877@saintmarys.edu.
.r,;,;,;·/,il; -t­

l. l ... , _.,___ 1_., 
, i I , , , 


Thursday, September 13 6:00p 
Bonior resigns as 01inority whip
Riehle Sand Courts 
(formaly Stepan Courts) 

Michigan. lie plans to finish a "It's a gift from the caucus." 
Associated Press 
Co-Rec -6 on 6* 

26-year career in Congress at As whip, Bonior has peen a *Minium of Two Females on the Court at all Times 
the end of his term in passionate advocate for labor
Rep. David Bonior, D-Mich., 

December 2002. unions, environmentalists,
said Monday he will resign as

Register a Team in Advance at RecSports 
The Democratic whip works human rights and other liberal 
House minority whip on Jan. 

to persuade members to sup­causes. He said he was proud­
15, which will open the way for 
Deadli.ne: 

port the party's agenda and est of being the voice for work­
a fierce battle to fill the
Wednesday, September 12 at 6:00 PM 

Democrats' second-ranking often serves as a party ers in the debate over free post in the chamber. spokesman. trade agreements; opposing the 
Bonior became whip 10 years "It's a wonderful position to conservative politics of former ago Tuesday and is giving up have, and I've enjoyed it House Speaker Newt Gingrich,
.Z:::,-.3/~ 
TOURNAMENT IS LIMITED TO THE 

the job to devote more time to immensely," Bonior said in a R-Ga.; and helping to pass the
FIRST 12 TEAMS THAT ENTER 

his bid to be governor of teleph<'.ine interview Monday. Balanced Budget Act of 1993. 
~•',._,,i,A',A4,,A.hA'<A,,,A.,,A%A.,.A'',A.',,,../,A.hAt,.A.,,,4""~"'ile.,",AA,ile.,""~"''"~AA\~
1) n,,V',,"¥:•,;"¥\,.,,,,.,,,,,,,.,,,,iv•,0,.,''•'~·•'Y·,,,,,.,.",~f'"i,.,.,.,.•"¥\•V',,J¥'1,:,V\0"¥''V"¥;i•Y·'1"¥'\V\V't"¥\~

l First meetmg of the semester! j
I Wednesda1r, Septen1ber I2 I 
s ' 
<·.. 7·()0pn1 
i.•.;·,·,,

\ . l
! Jordan Auditorium J 
I Mendoza C:ollege of Business f 
~~v"~¢<,l!,¢(A~V!Jv'!~iAv'J~~(,t:¢~~«t~~y!J(? 
*Summer internships and teaching positions abroad *Present a business consulting analysis to companies in Chicago 
*Design marketing strategies 

Gain valuable, real-life job
and advertising campaigns 

experience and have the
*Visit and establish contacts with major international companies edge when interview tirne comes around!
*Compete against other students in the Stock Market Game! *Help keep the new Council web 

Join...The Council page up to date and looking good! 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, September 11, 2001 
Elections 
continued from page l 
Bauters said. 
Student body president Brooke Norton said she is hopeful that voter turnout will improve under this method. 
"We're trying this in the hopes that more people will find It easi­er to vote and by extension improve voter turnout," she said. 
Norton explained that the Judicial Council decided on the election process and the Student Senate approved it. 
However, Matt Smith, one of the three candidates. said he is unsure more students will vote in this ofT-campus election com­pared to past years. 
"One of the drawbacks is you have to include your name, address and full name of the candidate. That's a little more work than some people want to do. When you're on campus, you can check a box and you're done," Smith said. 
Smith said it is possible stu­dents will only respond to the e­mail if Lhey have a friend who is running. However, Scott Caffrey, one of his opponents, disagreed. 
"It's a lot easier to e-mail your vote," Caffrey said. 
In fact, Smith agreed that there were few alternatives to the e-mail voting system. 
"This is the best system I can think of," Smith said. "For off­campus seniors, it's really tough, because there's no one place off­campus students go." 
A third candidate, Tammy Lin. is also running for lhe position. The Observer was unable to reach her for comment. 
So far, the e-mail system seems to be increasing voter turnout. McCarthy said that he checked the ballots on Monday morning at 9:30, just an hour and a half after voting began. He said that there were already over 50 ballots cast at that time, a number which McCarthy said was higher than total ballots received in years past. 
If this election goes well using e-mail. it is possible that the Judicial Council and Student Senate will consider using a sim­ilar method for other elections. 
"This is kind of a test case for next year," said student senator Padraic McDermott, who chairs the senate's oversight commit­tee. He said his committee would consider recommending a simi­lar method be used for the cam­pus-wide student body election in the spring. Dorm elections, however, should be left up to the dorms, according to McDermott. Jarotkiewicz, without ruling out with the Student Senate's over­



"I don't think {e-mail voting] the possibility. sight committee. will be appropriate for dorm "At Notre Dame they keep elections necessarily. I think the expanding the ways to use tech­Kristin Yemm contributed to dorms know best," McDermott nology. You can register online this story. said. now, maybe someday we'll all be 
Paper balloting in dorms may voting online." still be the best alternative for all McCarthy said he will work Contact LaRuffa at campus elections, added with the Judicial Council and LaRuffa.l@nd.edu. 

ISABEL DONOSO 
Chilean Political Activist WILL SPEAK AT THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS ON 
WED., SEPT. 12TH 4:00 -5:30 pm 
She will share with us her experience working with the Vicaria de la Solidaridad, the Catholic Church's organization which fought for the rights ofthe Chilean people during the military dicta­torship. She will also address current Chilean so­ciety and the challenges today. We will share light refreshments, in Chile, known as "onces.'' 
Questions please email Kate Diaz at kdiaz I@nd.edu CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 

Join Catering By•..Design and 
work for the best 
IF YOU WORK MSU, use, & TENN 8am -1pm YOU WILL RECEIVE $50.00 PLUS $6.35 AN HOUR AND GRATUITIES ALL GAMES START AT 1 :30pm 
DRESS CODE IS KHAKI'S AND POLO SHIRT 
AND/OR 
WORK ALL FOOTBALL LUNCHEONS FROM 10am-1pm YOU WILL RECEIVE AND EXTRA $75.00 PLUS $6.35 AN HOUR AND GRATUITIES DRESS CODE IS BLACK PANTS, WHITE SHIRT WITH COLLAR AND BLACK CLOSE TOE SHOES 
AND/OR 
WORK ALL SET UPS 6pm-9:30pm YOU WILL RECEIVE $75.00 PLUS $6.35 AN HOUR PLUS GRATUITIES DRESS CODE IS JEANS, T-SHIRT AND TENNIS SHOES 
Stop in at 612 Grace Hall to fill out an application for employ­ment. We have server and breakfast shifts available. We offer flexible hours and great pay! 

ATION 
Tuesday, September l l, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Crowd sees Queen Mother: Queen Elizabeth, the Queen Mother, 101, waved to well-wishers who gathered Monday to watch the royal family attend church near their Scottish estate. The British media have been speculating about the health of Queen Elizabeth H's much loved mother since she was hospitalized last month for a blood trans­fusion to treat anemia. 
13 drown in migration attempt: The bodies of 13 illegal would-be immigrants try­ing to reach Spain were found washed ashore on a Moroccan beach. They were found with an injured survivor late Saturday on the beach at Sidi Bouknadel, 12 miles north of Rabat. The victims were from a group of 60 Moroccans trying to cross by boat to Spain. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Gov. seeks to protect trees: 
California Gov. Gray Davis announced a plan today for closing a loophole in the pro­tection of certain old-growth trees in California, but some environmentalists attacked the proposal as far too modest and vowed to place an initiative on the ballot next year to strictly limit the cutting of the state's remaining old trees. The proposed rule would generally define old-growth trees as 200 years old or older. 
Charge against Bush teen dis­missed: The underage drinking case against President Bush's 19-year-old daugh­ter Barbara was dismissed Monday after she completed community service at Goodwill, attended an alcohol awareness class. and paid a $100 fine, a city spokes­woman said. The charge will be wiped from her record. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
West Nile outbreak unlikely: Despite the recent discovery of West Nile virus in Indiana and Illinois, state health officials are downplaying the likelihood of any widespread outbreak of the disease. Indiana State Department of Health officials confirmed a few weeks ago that a dead crow in southeast­ern Marion County had tested positive for the disease. the first reported case in Indiana. Last week. Illinois officials confirmed that two dead crows carried the virus. So far, however, the virus has not spread to any humans in either state. 
Market Watch September 10 

Dow 9,605.51 -0.34 Jones 

Composite Volume:

~s~; 
NIA 

AMEX: 855.35 -lffl NASDAQ: 1,695.38 +7.68 NYSE: 568.08 +l.91 S&P500: 1,092.54 +6.76 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS. 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 INDX (QQQ) +l.19 +0.40 34.10 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +0.77 +0.11 14.47 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +3.52 +B.39 11.46 INTEL CORP (INTC) +0.70 +B.18 26.07 EXODUS COMM INC (EXDS) -17.07 -0.07 0.34 
ISRAEL 


Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 
Israel and the Palestinians said they were willing to hold high­level truce talks on Tuesday, despite a series of deadly weekend attacks by Arab militants, but remained at odds over where the meetings should take place. 
In renewed violence Tuesday, two Israelis were killed in a Palestinian shooting attack near the West Bank town of Tulkarem, army radio reported. Police said there was an exchange of fire near the line between Israel and the West Bank and there were casualties. 

Even if Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres and Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat settle the disagreement over the venue -Egypt or the Erez crossing near the Gaza Strip -there is lit­tle expectation they will produce a cease-fire. Israel radio said negotia­tions over the venue were continuing Monday night. 
Previous U.S.-led truce efforts have failed to stop nearly a year of fighting and the Palestinians sus­pect Peres has only a lim­ited mandate, while Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon remains dis­trustful of Arafat's inten­tions. 
Also, Arafat's planned meeting Wednesday in Damascus with Syrian President Bashar Assad, a staunch opponent of Israeli-Palestinian peace talks, was seen as a pos­sible signal the Palestinians are harden­ing their stance toward Israel. 
U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell said he was trying to help renew Israeli-Palestinian securi­ty talks and that he spoke with Peres by telephone three times in recent days. 
Late Monday, Israeli tanks, infantry and heavy earth-moving equipment massed in Israel across from the West Bank town of Jenin, witnesses said. Palestinian security offi­cials said Israeli tanks were converging on the town, at the northern edge of the West Bank, from four directions. The Israeli military refused to comment. 
In Sunday's attacks ­two suicide bombings and a roadside ambush -five Israeli Jews and three Arab militants were killed, and dozens of Israelis were wounded. 
Shooting suspect dies after gun battle 
Associated Prrss 
SACRAMENTO 
A former security guard wanted in the slayings of five people shot himself to death during a furious gun battle with police early Monday, leaving a video suicide note boasting that he had "put on a hell of a show." 
"l giveth and I taketh away, that's how it goes in [expletive) life," Joseph Ferguson said on the tape, which authorities showed to reporters. 
Ferguson, 20, committed suicide in a stolen car shortly after mid­night following a frenzied, 40­minute chase through suburban Rancho Cordova. The shootout left a bystander critically injured and a Highway Patrol officer wounded. 

The suicide ended a weekend rampage that led authorities to evacuate Ferguson's co-workers from their homes for their own safety. 
It was the second killing spree in Sacramento in three weeks. Late last month, a Ukrainian immigrant allegedly stabbed to death his pregnant wife and five relatives, then vanished for 10 days before he was captured. 
Authorities say Ferguson began killing people Saturday night because he was despondent over getting suspended from his super­visor's job at Burns Security a week earlier. He was suspended after his ex-girlfriend, Burns guard Nina Susu, said he vandal­ized her car after the breakup. 
She and another former co­worker were the first to die, shot as they worked at a city mainte­nance yard. 
page 6 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, September 11, 200 l 
Center for Social C ncerns
csc 

http://centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu 631-5293
C E N T E R F O R 

Hours: M-F 8AM-10PM Sat. 10AM-2PM Sun. 6PM-9PM
SOCIAL 

CONCERNS Social Concern Seminars & SSPis 
*Appalachia Seminar: The Appalachia Seminar, 20 plus years after its creation, continues to send approximately 
H 
A 
p p 

300 students each year to five states in the Appalachia region. Students explore religious, social, pollitical, and environmental 
issues and serve in a variety of contexts. *Cultural Diversity Seminar: The Cultural Diversity Seminar is a unique opportunity to explore the strengths of our diversity as a people and a nation. Participants experience culturally diverse communities, food, and art, and engage in dialogue with leaders about social change. The seminar is cosponsored by Notre Dame's Office of Multicultural Student Programs and Services and the Urban Life Center in Chicago. 
*Children and Poverty Seminar: This seminar focuses on concerns that affect the youth of our nation, including poverty and violence, and examines efforts to foster positive youth development. Immersion takes place in New York, with visits to centers and agencies such as UNICEF, the National Center for Children in Poverty, and service opportunities. 
*WashinKton Seminar; Christians are supposedly citizens of both the heavenly and earthly cities. But how is this "dual-citizen­ship" lived out? By visiting a Benedictine monastery, a Catholic Worker fann, and several Catholic public policy organizations, this seminar will explore how we, as Christians, arc called to live and work in the world. This year's immersion entitled "Work­ers, Monks, and Citizens: From Christian Anarchists to Christian Bureaucrats" will use the resources of our nation's capital to explore this issue. 
*Hope and Risk Amon2 Youth: This pilot seminar will provide an overview of what several nationally renowned organizations are doing for youth in South Bend. Pa1ticipants will gain hands-on experience with issues facing children living in poverty, as well as explore the impact of poverty on the social, developmental, and health status of children. This seminar may also run in the spring. 
A dline for Fall Break Seminars: Se t. 12 2001 Summer Service Proiect Internships: 
Summer Service Project Internships are eight week service-learning experiences sponsored by Notre Dame alumni clubs across 
the country. Room and board is provided while students work with agencies serving disadvantaged populations. 
Information Sessions will be held on the following dates: 

Thursday, Oct. 18th 6:00PM * Wednesday, Nov. 7th 7:00PM * Wednesday, Nov. 28th 7:00PM * Tuesday, Jan. 22nd 6:30PM 
Faculty Opportunities 

E 
Faculty Needed! Through the Center for Social Concerns, Notre Dame students participate in service experiences so powerful that the lenses through which · they've seen the world are permanently altered. Such experiences -providing 
health care to poor people in Ecuador, an intensive week in Appalachia -make our students want to know more. To deepen the learning these experiences inspire, we need faculty members to help them formulate questions for academic 
. . 

. --~~:::­

pursuit; professors who can provide bibliography, direct students to relevant 
'~-;_~:~. ~ ,,: 

courses, help them design research projects; teachers who will guide our stu­
·,.:_ --~;~ 

dents in thinking carefully about the issues. If you have interest in working with 
. . ·_.;;­

·::,-;~--
these students in these or other ways, please contact Mary Beckman at the CSC. 
I 

Special Presentation: Isabel Donoso, Chilean Political Activist will speak at CSC on Wed., Sept. 12, 4-5:30pm She will speak on the Pinochet regime/dictatorship in Chile. 

Current Volunteer Needs 

. _,, Ridgedale Presbyterian Church -Jackie Bralick 289-6321 _ _ _. :: Rtrrming an after school progrnm on weekdays from 3-5 p.m. \olunteers needed to ~istwith · · jreading skills , general homework assignments, and serve as role models for the youth. The
·N.:•··:_.".'.:_.___-.-.i.··:.·.program serves approx. 30 ele~ntary sc.hool children from economically diverse backgrounds. 
_ _.· -:Holy Cross Grade School -Dlille Klee 234-3422 

Senior-Year Transition Programs (Post Graduate Service) 
Domestic Programs 
Information Session: 
Tuesday, September 11 
Cent,er for Social Concerns 
5:00-6:00 PM ··,~1' Returned volunteel'S will speak about their ,....,, · experiences with HCA, ACE and NC.·-.: 
FR. MICHAEL HIMES (via video) 
WHAT'S NEXT? CRITERIA for 
DECISION-MAKING 
Wednesday, September 12 
Siegfried Hall TV Lounge 
5:00 -7:00 PM RSVP 1-5779 Michael Himes, Professor of Theology at 
Bosto~ ~olfoge, uses hui:nor_and w!sd?m 
as he mv1tes you to consider the cntena of 
._ .-1Students needed to tutor grade school-aged children Mon.-Thurs. from 3 -4:30 pm at the school. joy, growth, agape and courage when · _· __ . -:: • -.~' • 1Helpespecially needed Wed afternoons for math. reflecting on decision-making. . . . 
, LOGAN Center-Marissa Runkle (219) 289-4831 , Searching for an energetic Choir Director. Choir members are adults with developmental disabilities who enjoy learning new songs and singing old
G"·

favorites. The choir meets l hr/week and pe1forms in the South Bend community for special occasions. Visit us at www.logancenterorg · ·Youth Outreach Ministries -Marcella Jones Preston 288-6809 '.. Youth Ou~h Ministric~ i~ an_after sch°?I progrnm ~cld Mon.-\\ed.. from 3-6 p.m. \oluntecrs needed to help with homework, in computer lab, and to ~ ,'} mentor children wh1 le ass1stmg m developing their self-esteem. \oluntecrs needed 1-2 hrs. each afternoon. 
-, ' \)Northeast Neighborhood Center (NENC)-Rebecca Pettit 631-9970 ··_.-'~I Groups of students needed to assist residents of the Northeast Neighborhood (immediately south of Notre Dame's campus) with various beautification ·.and winterization projects. Ideally l women's residence hall and 1 men's residence hall would ''adopt'' theNENC, to respond to projects as they arise.
S. 

·· . ! South Bend Community School Corporation Adult Education Program -Gayle Silver 231-5690 ,5~Volunteers needed to tutor adults in basic skills/GED preparntion/ESL classes. Morning, afternoon and evening classes are available at a variety of ->~~ ,locations, including the Robmson Community Leaming Center. Trn.nsportation ncedcd for most sites. Initial short training session is required..
',,(;'f! Supervision is always provided in the classroom. .·_ :} PersonaJ Math Tutor Needed-Thang Hoang Home phone: 277-2770 Work phone: 631-7701 Tutor needed for a junior at Clay High School who experiences difficulty with algebm and geometry. Trnnsportation offered from ND to their home, ..... or son can come to ND for tutoring. :Special Needs Author Needs A~istance 287-3891 515 East Monroe Apt. 612 (Karl King Towers) Rozanne has Carpal Tunnel Syndrome and needs a co-writer to help write her oook by contributing ideas and typing for her. Rozanne has a flexible 'schedule, she suggests anywhere between 2-3 times/wk,, for 3 hours at a time. Ameria> o · !Americo · ) 'tion-full · · with the Northeast N · borhood Center. In uire at CSC. 
Tue~day, September 11, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
BOG discusses study day issue 

By SHANNON NELLIGAN NeWS Writer 
Board of Governance is continuing the fight to add a study day to the academic calendar. according to a report from student body vice president Kristen Matha. Matha reported she's been collaborating with Susan Vanek, director of first year studies, and Teresa Marcy, assistant to the vice president of faculty, to try and add an extra study day to the Spring 2002 semester. 
The proposal to add a study day to the academic calendar has been a three-year strug­gle for the Board of Governance, who first initiat­ed the proposal in 1999 under former student body president Nancy Midden. The proposal has gotten resis­tance from faculty, who have expressed concern about los­ing a class day in the semes­ter. 
The new proposal. howev­er, eliminates that problem, according to Matha. 
"This will not interfere with the number of scheduled 
classes but instead it may sit­uate class registration and the first day of classes togeth­er," Matha said. 
While hoped to be in effect second semester of this acad­emic year, tho change may not be implemented until cur­rent two-year calendar expires, according to the board. 
In other BOG news: 
. 
There was also discus­s10n of amending the Governance Manual, to encourage professors to avoid major tests the week before final exams. The BOG will also speak to prof'essors, teaching higher-level courses within the same department, to prevent scheduling tests on the same day or week. "This will increase the communica­tion in each department and limit the amount of stress placed on the students," Matha said. 

. 
The board also discussed shifting funding for student groups to a grant system from the current co-sponsor­ship system. Kim Jenson, executive treasurer, said the 



9-BALL 
BILLIARD 
TOURNAMENT 
FRIDAY~ SE:PI. 14 8:30pm 
at 
ND EXPRESS 
Lower Level, LaFortune 
Sign up in ND EXPRESS beginning Monday. Sept. 10. Limited to 32 people. 

Celebrating their 38th season, Ririe-Woodbury Dance Company is heralded as a powerful force in modern dance. 
Thursday, Sept. 20, 2001 at 7:30 PM O'Laughlin Auditorium 
,wvREA0
FOR TICKET INFORMATION CALL THE ~Em-t'k__/
FOfl. TN6. AR1S
SAINT MARY'S BOX OFFICE AT 284-4626 .,.,.,,...... ,N 
grant system includes four categories: service, charity, academic/educational and campus programming. The previous arrangement was reformed to allow for a more fair distribution of f'unds, and to encourage students and organizations to use other methods of funding, such as class boards. 
"We don't want students to miss out but we don't want student abuse of funds either," said Matha. 
. 
Resident Hall Association president, Kathleen Nickson, discussed importance of addi• tional programming to raise awareness of sexual harass• ment and safety on campus. She is attempting to do this in a more personalized manner than the posters and pam­phlets have done in the past. 

. 
BOG will also begin stu­dent government breakfasts every first Wednesday of the month. The first one will be held Oct. 3 from 7-9:30. 


"This should increase accessibility and open up fur­th er discussion among the boards," said student body president Michelle Nagle. 
. Continued from last 

week, the abuse of mass e• mailing was addressed by technology commissioner, Elizabeth Cusick. She pro­posed to have a black board program on the Internet site where students could post their personals. Boards in Haggar College Center and Dining Hall could also be a place for students to commu­nicate. 
Contact Shannon Nelligan at nell2040@saintmarys.edu. 
got news? 1-5323. 
Checlf out more about the... 
U2 
continued from page 1 
"There is no need [for stu• dents] to start arriving before 3 o'clock," Sassano said. 
Anyone student who wants a ticket will receive a ticket, according to Sassano. 
"The general idea of [U2] coming was the Irish band playing to the Fighting Irish," Sassano said. "We are selling to our students until they all buy their tickets." 
Contact Sam Derheimer at Derheimer.l@nd.edu. 

Sacrament of Confirmation 
Are you a baptized Catholic who has received their first Communion but has never been Confirmed? 
Are you wondering whether you need to be Confirmed 
to get married in the Catholic Church? 
would you lilfe to prepare for Confirmation with other Notre Dame students who are dedicated to growing in their faith? 
It's not too late to join the Confirmation Preparation Program! 
Room 330 Coleman-Morse 
on Tuesday, Sept. 11th at 8:00 pm 
For more info: 

Fr. John Conley, CSC or 
Katie Hainley at 631-3390 
or stop by the Office of Campus Ministry 
in the Coleman-Morse Center with any questions. C-M 
Campus Ministry 


O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Tuesday, September 11, 200 I 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, None Dame. IN 46556 024 Souch Dining Hall. Nocre Dame. IN 46S56 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EUITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smirh  Par Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFark-y VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amscadrer ScENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan GRA!'HIC5 EDITOR: Karie McKenna 
CoNrAcT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDIToR/AsST. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOrNT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sporrs. J@nd .edu SCENE..............,.............................. ,..........631-4540 obs,.rver.scene. J@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0.................................. ,.....................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS............ ,....631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire at http:l!observer.ndedu for daily updates of campus news, spores, fearures and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
about The Observer
archives to search for 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
staff
August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and on line by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Maty's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policieS ofthe administration ofeither inscirurion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of tbe majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor. As.sis rant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries. letters and columns present the views ofche authors and noc necessarily chose of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lercers is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer po/icier should be direct­ed to Editor in Chief Mike Connolly. 


Administration co11trols students with alcohol policy 
I was sitting at dinner Thursday, perusing the pages of The Observer, when, to my shock and dismay, I thought another writer had used one of my column ideas. As it turned out, the article was satirical. an 
John Litle
object lesson if you will, into the immaturity caused by admin­
Frankly
istrative lies. 
Obnoxious
This article started healthily enough, pointing out that the Notre Dame administration has been known on occasion to pull the wool over our eyes. I can agree with that, heck, I could write that with thick black marker on my arm. 
Unfortunately, the article quickly deteriorated into a lecture on why FlipSide is a radical anti-drinking ter­rorist organization hell-bent on world domination. Anyway, back to the administrative lies I like so much. 
You see, the biggest lie on Notre Dame's campus is the use of a certain policy to control the student body. That is: the alcohol policy. Now I myself have no problem with alcohol. I wouldn't use Rally in the Alley as my definition for maturity, but I also don't condemn its use. 
But alcohol at Notre Dame is an administrative tool. It is used as a method of control. 
No free speech -no one cares so long as we can get blasted on the weekend. 
Terrible gender relations -that's fine, I'll drink myself under the table. 

No matter what ridiculous rule or blatant disregard for student opinion occurs on campus, the end response by students is, "Who cares, I'm so wasted man!" 
Think about it, we're barely allowed to look at people of the opposite gen­der. and tearing up a copy of duLac might get us kicked off campus, but you can drink yourself into oblivion (something actually illegal in the real world) so long as you don't take it into the hallway. Is there any reason other than control for this very liberal rule on this most conservative of all cam­puses? I'll save you some time -no. 
The worst part of this is that there are some students who are so sub­merged in the myth, so contained by the system, that they actually think the University's public relations moves (Flipstock, telling kids to stay on campus and HA meetings) are gen­uine efforts to stop the drinking. It's hilarious to read. 
I personally can't stand the idea that what I write in this column might get me kicked out of school because I "have no right to free speech on this campus," as I was informed late last year by a University official. Worse yet is that we are claiming to be a legitimate upper-tier institution of higher learning, and our "select" stu­dents really couldn't care less about the First Amendment, a fundamental of' the American collegiate experience. 
Why. you ask? Mostly because every time some sort of actual campus activism starts up, the alcohol policy goes under review and all the partici­pants cower like sheep. This is because so many have been convinced that both the only way to socialize and the only way to achieve solace in an environment so clenched up by 15th century rules, is to drink. The preservation of this free ability to drink therefore is of the utmost importance. Therein lies the power. 
I hope I have not come off as being too anti-drinking. That is not the case at all. I have no problem whatsoever with drinking. My problem lies in the attitude that at least a few Notre Dame students have that fun cannot occur absent alcohol. Or worse, that normal social interaction cannot occur absent alcohol. 
This breeds alumni like the ones I saw at Nebraska: completely drunk, irn:sponsible, fighting amongst them­selves and screaming obscenities across the stadium. They were an embarrassment to themselves, their families and the University from which they graduated. Their behavior was cultivated here. where they thought they learned that the only way to have fun at a football game is when you are completely hammered. Now that is a failing attempt at being socially adept. 
John Litle is a junior MIS major whose entire family (including extended relatives) has warned him not to write this column, The opinions expressed herein, therefore, do not rejlect on his family or upbringing unless it is in a good way. He can be contacted at jlitle@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this coiumn are those of the author and not neces­sarUy those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Helena Payne Sam Derheimer Courtney Boyle Chris Scott Elizabeth Lee Graphics Sports Andy Devoto Brian Kronk Production Viewpoint Noah Amstadter Kristin Yemm Lab Tech Brian Pucevich 
POLL QUESTION QUOTE OF THIE DAY 

U.S. News and World Report recently released 
"Lies -there you have the religion their annual college rankings. Did these 
ofslaves and taskmasters." 
rankings play a role in your college decision? Please e-mail observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu 
Aleksei Maksimovich Peshkov 
writer
by Friday to report your answer. 
OBSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, September 11, 2001 page 9 
Democratic House majority seems unlikely 
Congressman Tim Roemer will retire next year, end­ing a long and distinguished career representing South Bend in Congress. His retirement makes the battle for Democratic control of the House difficult, if not impossi­ble. It's not that the next election hinges on events in the 
3rd District. but Roemer's leaving  
exposes some larger trends that will  Scott Flipse  
keep Republicans in the majority in  
2002.  
Predictions such as mine run  
against both historical analysis and  Pro Bono  
current v;risdom. If you have been  
listening to the media for the past  
couple months you would think that  

the Democrats have the 2002 elections wrapped up. "We know that historically the party that holds the White House loses seats in Congress," writes USA Today's Susan Page. The New Republic's Noam Scheiber reported that Democrats are confident that the GOP was weakened by the last election. Said Scheiber, "When you consider how ugly Bush's victory was, the GOP majority doesn't look just tenuous; it looks downright imperiled." 
Such is the prevailing opinion. But Democrats are run­ning uphill in their race for control of the House (the Senate is another matter entirely). Roemer's retirement is just one of weights holding them down. Not only will it be difficult to win back the five seats needed to regain the majority, but they might even lose ground. Retirements, reapportionment and redistricting will con­spire to thwart dreams of a Democratic majority. 
Retirements are a big factor. Besides Roemer there are several other prominent Democrats likely to retire. In 1998 and 2000, minority leader Dick Gephardt con­vinced several of his older colleagues to postpone retire­ment. He argued that Democrats could take back the House only if they kept incumbents in place. But narrow defeats in the last two elections make that argument much more difficult to make. Additionally, several of the Democrats reported to retire -Ike Skelton of Missouri, Norman Sisisky from Virginia, and Earl Pomeroy from North Dakota -are from districts that lean Republican. 
Reapportionment is another crucial consideration. Every decade each state carves up its voting districts to reflect its current population. The Census of 2000 indi­cated a continuing migration from the Rust Belt and the Midwest to the Sunbelt. Indiana, along with Illinois, Ohio and Wisconsin will each lose one Congressional seat. Pennsylvania and New York will probably lose two seats. Other than Indiana, the states mentioned have been consistently Democrat. The states that are gaining seats in reapportionment, however, have all been Republican strongholds. Arizona, Texas, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, North Carolina and Utah will all have additional con­gressional representation in 2002. 
With reapportionment comes redistricting, and that process also favors Republicans. State represen­tatives and governors are right now redrawing congressional maps to reflect population changes. The process is a political one. The party in charge of the legisla­ture draws the new lines. Their goal it to protect their own incumbents while making the other party's incumbents as vulnerable as possible. The Democrats control Indiana's redistricting and are faced with the fact that they have to cut out a con­gressional seat. Roemer's retirement gives them an easy compromise that will protect other Democratic incumbents in a mostly Republican state. They could simply split Roemer's district in two. The more Democratic St. Joseph's County going to Democrat Peter Visclosky and the more Republican Elkhart County going to Republican Mark Souder (both are Notre Dame grads). Unless a creative solution is found, Indiana will lose a Congressional seat and that seat will be Democratic. Similar prospects are likely in other states. With Republican-controlled legislatures overseeing the redistricting process in such key states as Florida, Arizona, Colorado and Pennsylvania, the chances of Democrats gaining seats in reapportionment are slim. 
Despite these facts, there are many still predicting that Democral5 will gain control of the House in 2002. According to recent polls, the issues on voters' minds favor Democrat5 and there is deep resentment against Bush's election victory. The combination of factors might lead to a Democratic victory in 2002, but it is not something one should take to Vegas. Voter memories are not long. And Democrats cannot count on having "the issues" on their side. If there is one thing that Republicans have learned from Clinton, it is that sophis­ticated polling technology can tip them off to hot election 
issues. This happened in the last elec­
tion, when the GOP co-opted Democratic issues on pre­scription drug benefits and a patient's bill of rights. That move toward the center saved some vul­
nerable Republican incumbents. If Democrats can't bet on voter anger and the 

issues, they shouldn't be too optimistic about their chances. They only have to look at Roemer's retirement for compelling evidence that win­ning a majority in the House will be an uphill battle. 
Scott Flipse is associate director ofNotre Dame's semester in Washington program and a Pew Fellow at the Brookings Institution. He can be contacted at sflipse@nd.edu. Ifyou want more information on the Washington semester, visit the website at www.nd.edu/-semester. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Irish fans act up in Nebraska 

I am a sophomore at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln and this letter is spurred by some atrocious acts I witnessed by Notre Dame fans after the game on Saturday. During the game, I did see some Husker fans good-naturedly harassing the Irish, but none of it would warrant the damage they did to my school and property, in particu­lar. 
I had the unfortunate luck of being parked in a lot where several RVs from Notre Dame were parked. When I went to my car after the game, I was met with not only loud jeers, insults and harassment from the jaded fans, but also mounds of trash sur­rounding my car and two completely flat tires. The obnoxious fans proceeded to laugh at their joke on me. Several people were also having a post-game tailgate party and didn't appear to have any reservations about smashing their bottles on the ground and on the street or leaving their trash for us to clean up. 
l guess that common courtesy and decency are qualities that Notre Dame fans feel are unnecessary when visiting other campuses. I wonder if they realize that they are not giving themselves a bad reputation as individuals but also placing one upon the school. I am inclined to believe that they are not an accurate representation of Notre Dame; however, I was appalled at the lack of sportsmanship displayed by Notre Dame fans and hope that a better example will be set in the future. 
Alaina Bupp sophomore Lncoln, Neb. Sepr. JO, 200 I 

The Observer's explanation falls short 
In defense of The Observer regarding last week's alleged assault headlines, the staff made a rightful attempt to justify their reasons for allowing unconfirmed and perhaps misleading information onto the front page of our school newspaper. 
Unfortunately the response did not curb my frustrations over last week's head­lines, nor did it present a logical motive guiding the actions of The Observer. Instead, the Friday column twisted the philosophy behind good journalism in order to cover the stairs mistakes. 
The Observer typically does a good job of presenting pertinent information to our campus. With reference to the rape allegations, they had an inarguable responsibility to report that an assault had been documented by security on Aug. 31 and emphasize that the facts were still unclear. Printing room numbers as means of increasing awareness about the incident, however, was a step away from journalistic responsibility. Suggesting that room numbers were printed as a cautionary measure five days after the incident is a moot point. If someone else had been drugged they would have known by now and would not have needed room numbers to help them figure it out. Withholding the names of people who live in these rooms while using ambiguous words like "allegedly" does not keep them from being linked to the incident. Readers will ask questions, start rumors and jump to false conclusions. 
The Observer has cited such formalities of journalistic etiquette as a way to remove itself from accountability, while disregarding any oversights in the matter. Ultimately the situation has become a breeding ground for sensationalism, the stuff that tabloids, not newspapers, are made of. 
It is dangerous to automatically confuse information with truth, or even a means of achieving truth. On the contrary, our culture is indebted to a series of sound bytes and half-truths, fragments that potentially transform disinformation into fact. The editorial staff should not have made themselves out to be some kind of crusaders for journalistic integrity, as Friday's column attempted to suggest. Much like the vague articles that were allowed in last week's newspaper, The Observer staff is simply confused. 
Joel Ebner senior Keough Hall Sepe. 9, 2001 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


CENE.
music 
Tuesday, September 11, 2001 

page 10 
ALBUM REVIEW 

Final album marks Aaliyah's talent and growth 
By ARlENNE THOMPSON 
Scene Music Critic 
Some things are worth the wait. Whether it's waiting for that first kiss as a middle-schooler or for that last final exam as a college senior, the splendor of antici­pation so often enriches and enlightens the events and experiences of life. 
Such is the case \vith Aaliyah's latest ­and tragically final -album. This self­titled work undoubtedly displays the pol­ished talent that Aaliyah had grown into over the years. 
Though only producing three albums in her short career, Aaliyah had managed to become an undeniable musical force at a tender age. Releasing Age Ain't Nothing but A Number at 14, Aalivah came out with a tough street persona, directed almost entirely by R&B mega-star R. Kelly. Aaliyah sang about hanging with her homies and the quest for a man with "thug appeal." 
The image was successful, but it seemed that there was more to the girl. A few years later she proved that there was indeed much more to Aaliyah when she unleashed her beat-heavy sophomore album One In a Million. It was with this release that she softened her edgy image and created a signature sound. 

A strong vocalist, Aaliyah capitalized on her soft voice and impressive range by throv.ing these elements over the intense, quirky beats of super-producer, Timbaland. This unique sound of hard and sweet proved to be one of Aaliyah's greatest assets and helped her form an amazing working and personal relation­ship with him. Capitalizing on their obvi­ous chemistry, the two went on to create the songs "Are You That Somebody?" and "Try Again," both created for sound­tracks, and one nominated for a Grammy. 
The beginning of this year marked five years since Aaliyah's last album and fans were getting anxious fur a new one. Though she was releasing singles for movie soundtracks and shaping her act­ing career, people were eagerly awaiting her next studio release. Released about two months ago, the album Aaliyah is a manifestation of the advantages of matu­rity. 
Working with producer and "super friend" Timbaland on this album once again, Aaliyah continues to showcase her vocal range and sweet voice, stretched tight over thumping, double-time beats. However, Timbaland's contributions are limited on this release, as Aaliyah turned to lesser-known producers Rapture and Budda to work on a bulk of the album. 
Utilizing an array of synthesized instru­ments from cello to guitar, this work is vaguely reminiscent of the singer's early street days. Fortunately, however, this similarity is overshadowed by Aaliyah's substantial growth not only as an artist, but most obviously as a young adult. 
She is no longer the shy girl behind the iconic R. Kelly; nor is she the "little sister" of Timbaland and Missy Elliot. She is Aaliyah: an artist who is singing about the trials of adult love and lust. She sings as a woman and not as the sometimes awk­ward teenag­er of previ­ous albums. Aaliyah is confident and com­m anding, steering this work as one with a vision of artistry and nothing less. 

The haunt­ing "We Need a 


Hesolution" opens the album, and sets a lyrical tone that allows Aaliyah to discuss respect, fairness and commitment in her new­found adult relationships. These topics essenti~lly compose the theme of the album and are displayed wonderfully on tracks like "U Got Nerve" and "Read Between the Lines." 
The standout tracks "More Than a Woman" and "I Refuse" show Aaliyah at her best and solidify her status as a capa­ble artist. The latter is an astounding col­lage of sound, complete with an entirely synthesized orchestra, while the former proves the genius and innovation of Timbaland with its mesmerizing, funky chords and unrelenting percussion. 
As is the case with many modern rhythm and blues recordings, Aa!iyah has its faults, mainly in the area of lyrical con­tent. Though overall more mature and focused this go around, some of the lyrics are still trite and elementary. Written almost entirely by Stephen "Static" Garret of the Timbaland-produced group Playa, the lyrical work on this album leaves a bit to be desired. His potential as a balladeer is apparent, and what he lacks in focus and depth could plausibly be remedied with experience. 
Being a critical witness to the vast per­sonal and artistic growth of Aaliyah is an experience made poignant and momen­tous by the tragedy of her heart-breaking and untimely death. She leaves a legacy and reputation behind more commonly reserved for artists much older than she, and it is with this in mind that her work be recognized as a standing testament to professionalism, talent and drive. 
Contact Arienne Thompson at athompso@nd.edu. 
I 
ALBUM REVIEW 

Comfort Eagle follows Cake's successful formula 
By JOE LARSON Scene Music Critic 
Cake was first recognized for their heavy, guitar-riff dri­ven single, "The Distance" off their 1996 release Fashion Nugget. The album, chock full of ascending bass lines and heavily distorted lead guitar riffs, gained the band a loyal underground following on college radio and catapulted them into alternative rock's answer to Herman's Hermits. 
The band's sound, fusing sarcastically sophisticated lyrics with an acoustic guitar background, thumping bass lines, searingly distorted lead guitar and an occasional horn blast, is all its own. Fashion Nugget also boasted an infectious cover of Gloria Gaynor's disco smash, "I Will Survive." 
Nugget's follow up, Prolonging the Magic, brought more of the same poppy punk/folk, cruising on the success of tunes like the lovelorn anthem, "Never There" and the quirky "Sheep Go To Heaven, Goats Go to Hell." 
Cake made a name for themselves with humorous and sometimes self-deprecating songs commenting on every­thing from Hollywood glitz to being dissed by old lovers. On their latest release, Comfort Eagle, Cake maintain the 

Comfort Eagle 
CAKE
Cake 
Columbia Records 
Rating 


,
.... 



same formula. Lead singer John McRea maintains his sarcastic views of everything and the band still lays down the funky rock 'n' roll to back it up. 
The album docs not really break any new ground for Cake, but the band's original outlook and sound still allow it to blossom. The first single. "Short Skirt/Long Jacket," mixes the same old catchy guitar riff and bass line with McHea's list of what kind of girl he wants: "I want a girl with eyes that burn like cigarettes/ Who uses a machete to cut through red tape." 
Coupled by it's video, which puts a camera crew out iilming people's reactions to the song, the song is sure to fall into the band's string of recognizable, but not quite overwhelmingly popular songs. The highlight is the back­ground chanting that is reminiscent of the Hed Hot Chili Peppers. 
Other highlights on the album are the punk driven "Commissioning a Symphony in C" and "Opera Singer," which tells the story of -guess what -an opera singer's daily life. Cake's instrumental track "Arco Arena," begins to sound almost like an old Def Lepard song but then turns into something that would be coupled with an oil~ beat detective movie. 
The hard-driven title track boasts the band's hatred for 
the people they meet in the music business: "He is handling the money/ He is serving the food/ He knows about your party/ I le is calling you, Dude!" This song attacks the business that, because or trends and an all­around lack of rock music, has kept the band in moderate obscurity with only col­lege radio to thank for any of their success. 
Their complaining is not unwarranted. Though Cake is not really maturing or experimenting on their latest work, they are compiling honest, good music. They do not really have to mature or experiment with their style, because their sound is already mature and def'initely different !'rom any of the other bands out there. They found the formula for successfully fusing 
Photo courtesy of www.cakemusic.com Though not breaki11g any new rock boundaries, Cake continues on their path to college-rock infamy. 
funk, punk, and even some country twang -and it works. There is no great need for them to change since their music really is completely original from everything else being released. 
Probably the best song on Comfort Eagle is the extremely catchy "Love You Madly." It's a simple sung that bounces through the verses and into the chorus shouting for what rock 'n' roll songs are supposed to shout about, the singer's desire for love. Cake hits full force on this song with their signature bridge. coupling the bass and guitar with a trumpet solo from Vince Diofore. 
All in all, Comfort Eagle is a completely satisfying rock album. It rocks. It croons. And it will stick in your head. Though Cake covers no new ground here, the album will still keep the listener interested. Ac; they've shown before. Cake's patented formula makes for a great bunch of songs, but one can't help but wonder how long the formu­la will last without getting too redundant. 
Contact Joe Larson :at jlarson@nd.edu 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


CENE. _.,. 
1nu ··ic 
Tuesday, September 11, 2001 
page 11 

CONCERT REVIEW 
Outside influences help Crystal Method avoid slump 
By DAVE FULTON 
Scene Music Critic 
While the current music scene in America bolds new frontiers by blending musical genres into a unique sound. there are still hrn things currently plaguing popular mlL',ic today: boy bands and the sophomore slump. But where boy bands appear to he nothing more than a flaw in the commercial market's better judgement, the sophomore slump has plagued groups for decades. The ''where are they now" bin keeps growing with each first and last tes­tament of groups that s.oon fade from audible existence on the radio. 
Some bands, however, seem to break through the sophomore slump and create something which parallels the artistic excellence of their debut album. VVhile these bands seem to be in fewer and fewer numbers, The Crystal Method, after receiving critical acclaim for their debut album Vegas and touring with the Family Values Tour, have managed to nix the dreaded plague. The new album packs more ambition and more experimentation into the songs, but falls shy of having the adventurousness of albums by other artists in the electronic music genre. 
While fame and fortune often plague groups, Ken Jordan and Scott Kirkland use their notoriety to enlist the assistance of Rage Against the Machine guitarist Tom Morello and Stone Temple Pilots singer Scott Weiland, 
Tweekend 


among others, to ensure their triumph over the sophomore slump. 
With the release of Tweekend, Crystal Method show that they are not merely a one hit won­der, but a group that is maturing with experience and exposure to new influences. 
After the radio success of partially formu­laic songs like "Busy Child" and "Trip Like I Do" from the debut album, the duo returns with a collection of beats that not only engage the listener. but function as a soundtrack for a 70 minute sonic journey. While Vegas featured a more radio­f,iendly, dance-oriented sound, Tweekend features a much wider range of influem;es and a much more mature vibe which ends up somewhere between American hard rock and ambi­ent European electronic jazz. 
From the slow introduction of the opening song, "PHD," the group's slight departure from the aggressive, sometimes hos­tile sound of its previous album is evident. The song begins with a chilled-out, funky drum beat and a smooth bass line before breaking into a tightly wound groove. Morello's co-production of the track is also evident, as many of the sounds mirror the avant-garde squeals and tweaks of his guitar licks employed dur­

Featuring the work of Tom Morello and Scott Weiland among others,
ing his days with Rage Against 

Crystal Method's sophomore album furthers the group's agressive and
the Machine. 

adventurous attitude without merely repeating past efforts. 

While much of the album fol­lows the more mellowed lines of "PHD," the first single released, "Name of the Game," finds the group at their most aggressive. The song begins with a raunchy, raw guitar riff courtesy of Morello, and then proceeds to break into some impressive scratching by DJ Swamp and venomous rapping by Ryu. 
What makes "Name of the Game" the strongest track on the record is the meshing of multiple foreign elements. Without DJ Swamp's scratching, Ryu's lyrical lashes would lack substance, while if it were not for Morello's meaty chops, the huge electronic beats would lose some of their gigantic drive. 
While "Name of the Game" is the disc's most aggressive track, "Blowout" is its most mellowed offering. The song features a dreamy, almost trance-like interlude that shares much in common with trance artists Kamaya Painters and Push. "Over the Line" sounds like a cross between Air and Daft Punk. The jazzy background and robotic voice would be right at home in any trendy bar or club in Paris. 
A new direction taken by The Crystal Method on Tweekend is an increase in their vocal arrangements. Where they were sparse on Vegas, wider usage on Tweekend adds another dimension to the already interest­ing blend of sound. Scott Weiland's performance on "Murder" adds a certain sexual flavor to the track without being gratuitous or overt, and provides a nice change of pace from over-the-top and amateur attempts at sexuality by some current groups. 
½'hile The Crystal Method, for the most part, succeed by blending odd and rarely intertwined musical elements, they fail on "Wild, Sweet and Cool." Where all other vocals and samples on the album work to strengthen the tracks, here the duo get a bit too carried away. A flimsy sample makes an attempt at mimicking the ambitiousness of Mpby's "Bodyrock," and the weak vocals seem drastically out of place. As the weakest track on the album, however, the song is still enjoyable for its guitar riffs and driving beats. 
The only serious flaw that can be found with the album is that it lacks the kind of ambition found on releases by Chemical Brothers and Fatboy Slim -despite a fervent attempt at being adventurous. The songs seem a bit too safe, especially for the electronic genre. The synthesized bass lines seem to still be too controlled. By no means are the songs formulaic, but they do not reach their potential. 
To the credit of The Crystal Method, they deserve applause for having the sense and maturity to bring in outside help from artists who have survived the sopho­more slump in order to keep their sound fresh rather than simply retreat back to their debut. The beats on Tweekend are more spontaneous, as are the changes and the instrumentation. 
In the end, despite minor flaws that can be found with the new album, The Crystal Method have clearly sur­passed ,the sophomore slump and have succeeded in cre­ating music that is more exciting and more adventurous than the majority of the music on the radio today. 
Contact Dave Fulton at dfulton@nd.edu. 
Tuesday, September 11, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 12 
NBA 
Jordan all but confirms intended comeback 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 

Michael Jordan all but con­firmed Monday he would return to play in the NBA and said the world will know for sure within 10 days. 
In a 30-minutc conversation with The Associated Press and reporters for the Chicago Sun-. Times and cnnsi.com, Jordan said the news conference to announce his decision would be held in Washington, D.C., by the middle of next week. 
Asked whether he was defi­nitely coming back. Jordan smiled slyly. A moment later, he looked up and said, 'Tm doing it for the love of the game. Nothing else. For the love the game." 
A statement released from Jordan's office Monday night, though, wouldn't confirm any­thing. 'Tm not giving any confir­mation to the report ... It is pure speculation," Jordan said in the statement. 
Jordan, who led the Chicago Bulls to six championships, has worked out all summer prepar­ing for the expected comeback with the Washington Wizards. He is president of basketball operations for the team and a part owner, meaning he has to divest his ownership under NBA rules before returning to the court. 
Jordan has tested himself and his game repeatedly in scrim­mages against top-caliber NRA players, with league referees officiating. The only question remaining is whether the ten­dinitis in his right knee would limit his effectiveness. 
Jordan, however, said the knee was sound. If it remains that way over the next few days, he said, "I'11 be ready to go." 
This would be the second comeback for the 38-year-old Jordan. 
He stunned the basketball world by retiring in October 1993, saying he had nothing left to prove in basketball and want­ed to give baseball a try. He played a season of Double-A ball for the Chicago White Sox team in Birmingham. Ala.. but returned to the Bulls in March 1995. 
In the half-hour conversation on a curb outside his restaurant, Jordan dropped the conditional tense for the first time since acknowledging in April that he was serious about coming back. 
"I want to play for years," he said. 
But Jordan made clear he wasn't coming back to fulfill any expectations but his own. "Winning isn't always champi­onships. What's wrong with helping kids find their way, teaching them the game?" 


Michael Jordan works out at a Washington Wizards practiice in June. Jordan told reporters Monday that he will announce next week if he intends to play in the NBA this season. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 Sou,h Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refµnds. 
RESPONSIBLE, QUALITY CHILD-ROOMMATE WANTED CARE NEEDED Campus View Apartments LOST AND FOUND in my home for 3 year old & 7 Private bedroom & PRIVATE month old. Monday thru Thursday BATHROOM!!! Large kitchen. Free 2:30 pm -5 pm. parking. $282.5/month. Contact me 1 Saturday a month. at quw@nd.edu. LOST WHITE GOLD NUGGET Own transportation required. Emergency call: 219-243-2383 NECKLACE. 5 mins from ND. PROBABLY NEAR REGINA HALL Major in early childhood develop-PET REFUGE, a no-kill animal AT SAINT MARY'S. mentor child psychology a plus. shelter just 10 min from campus, GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE. References required. urgently needs FOSTERS and THIS IS INSURED SO WE WILL Call 288-6795. VOLUNTEERS for its cats and BE PID IF NOT SURRENDERED. dogs. BUT WE WANT IT BACK, Please e-mail webmaster@petre-PLEASE. LOVE KIDS? luge.com, visit www.petrefuge.com, WANT TO EARN GOOD $$ or call 256-0886. CALL 765-659-4928. BUT ONLY WORK A FEW HOURS HANDSOME REWARD. A WEEK? IN-HOME NANNY needed to care NO QUESTIONS ASKED for infant. Must have transportation. Area family needs individual to care Experience with infants and refer-Lost High School Class Ring tor our two daughters Mon-Fri from ence s required. Chillicothe High School 3-6pm starting mid-Sept. Mom Congact Dr. Knoedler at 631-4262 Jessica inscribed on the inside attends grad school in Chicago. or aknoedle@nd.edu. Please return! Girlfriend will kill me Girls are fun and delightful' Transportation needed. Seeking student for part time repre-Please call 634-3580 Generous payl sentation on campus for screen If interested, please call Karen print & embroidery company. Flex Lost a silver bracelet possibly in Stonehill at 272-5013. hrs and flex pay. Call Dave at 800­South Quad directly outside Dillon 813-2113. Hall's front door. ON CALL BABYSITTER NEEDED. Bracelet has a gold plate with the NEAR ND. FOR DETAILS CALL After school care for two children, 3 inscription 'TJ 1999 LIV • If found, 273-2872. pm -5:30 pm Good payl Please please call 4-0951 and leave a call Lisa 631-9947 or 277-8564. message for T J. WANTED: Highly organized, experienced legal looking for someone to care secretary or assistant to Pl trial for/play with my 4 & 6 year old boys 
REWARD over $50. lawyer for new, spacious offices while I work in home office. 3-5 next to Notre Dame campus; hours hours per week -flexible. 5 miles flexible, competitive pay and bene-from campus. fits. Tricia 232-1285 
WANTED Call 231-1868 and leave message. Looking for a female English tutor Sitter wanted by professor for two for Japanese native girl aged 8 in ROOMMATE WANTED boys (7&10) some evenings and Granger. Twice a week $40 (1 hour 
late afternoons. each some time between 4 to 7 Looking for a male or female Constable.1@nd.edu or 234-9597 pm). Contact Yoshi at 219-654­roommate tor house off-campus Wanted by elderly couple a respon-1219 at 822 N. Francis St. sible man or woman graduate stu-Close to campus. dent to drive our car for errands or Mom's helper 
short drives from our home in ND Seek student to help with twins 10­neighborhood. Wages per hour 20 hrs/moth. Good pay. Full If interested, call 288-8249 negotiable. 288-007 4 description available by e-mail request: 
WANTED: JennyLack@aol.com 

Assistant to trial layer with desktop Seeking part-time Daycare provider publishing skills for new spacious Babysitter(s): non-smoker, playful, for two children. Granger area. offices next to Notre Dame campus: responsible. Needed for various Own transportation required, part-time or flexible hours; competi-times: Mon & Th. Fternoons (12-5), References. live hourly wage Sat. nights. Girl 3, Boy 5. In 
Granger. Call 277-1622. Call 231-1868 and leave message. 273-9476 SEEKING STUDENT FOR PART B&B NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TIX TIME REPRESENTATION ON 4 rooms for N.D. football. FOR SALE CAMPUS FOR SCREEN PRINT & 3 miles from N.D. -Best location. AM. 232-2378 P.M. 288-2726 EMBROIDERY COMPANY. FLEX 287-4545 HOURS & FLEX PAY. CALL DAVE ND tickets for sale. Lowest prices. AT 800-813-2113. Spacious 4 bdrm, 2-story on private 232-0964 
lane in Farmington Squam 2737 Seeking part-time Daycare provider SF+ professionally finsihed base-GA Tix 4 Pitt gm 271-1654 for two children. Granger area. Own ment. Call Jack at 280-77:30. transportation required. Century 21 Jim Dunfree Realty. Buying some/ Selling a few extra References. Call 277-1622. N.D. Football Tickets 219-289­
8048 STUDENT WORK 
FOR SALE
$14 05 Base-appt. A businessman needs football sea-Vector Mkt. is filling PT cust. son tickets "GAs only' Will buy svc./sales positions (5-20 hrs) Beautiful brass bed, quee11 size, individual games 277 -1659 Flex around classes. Scholarships. with orthopedic mattress set. All Cond. apply new, never used, still in plastic. Wanted: 4-6 tickets for USC. Seats www.workforstudents.com/np call $235. 219-862-2082. do not have to be together. Call M-W 12-5 pm Nicole 233-8513 282-2357 60x30 desk 60x30x72 de,,k + office 
chairs. 287-3373 ask for Cindy. For Sale Navy, WVA, Pitt, GAS 654­ND prof seeks reliable person for 0168 daytime babysitting of 2-yr-old on Gently used loveseat + chair. MW 8:30 am-12:30 pm. Generous Taupe w/ muted pinstripe!.; wood $$ NEED 8 TIX 4 WVU rates. Well-behaved child. Transp. trim -"Broyhill" $150 674-6150 915-241-5999 
req'd. (5 min. from ND). 
288-4170 or kbaldwin@nd.edu Futon w/solid wood frame $500. ND-PURDUE football tix for sale. Krups cappucino & coffee maker Cheap! $70. Sony cordless phone & AM · 232-2378 answering machine $30. PM -288-2726 277-0666
FOR RENT 
Helpl LOUD 3-way speakers. 11!5 w. ea. Need 8 West Virginia tickets. Call 
12" drivers. $250 obo/pari Call Kerry at 243-0928. This terrific one bedroom condo in Mike4-4695 Woodbridge Condominiums is close Looking for 4 Pitt tix. Will buy or enough to walk to ND. Why rent? '88 GMC pikcup truck. Looks good, trade for 4 WV !ix. Call Chrissy at Own this for $62,9001 Cobntact runs great. Call Mark at 273-0449. 634-1203 or email Prudential One Realty or Cherie cmaher@nd.edu. TeRoller at 284-2600. Canon Bubble Jet 4200 printer. 
$100 For Sale: 2 tix together to Northshore Condo, 1428 Marigold 288-4241 Purdue/Notre Dame football game Way near ND, 1 bdr, 1 bath, LR, in ND student section. $55. Call DR & kitchen w/ appliances. 1 car 634-1941, garage. $69,000. TICKETS Call Doris at 254-1772 for more info. 
PERSONAL 

BUY-SELL THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and ND FOOTBALL TICKETS Breakfast Inn has space available 277-6619 SENIORS: for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms Senior Portraits taken until Sept with private baths, $80-$115, GA'S 4 use, MSU, TN, WVA 271-21. Sign up now @ Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. 1654 www.Laurenstudios.com while Toll Road Exit #107. there is still space available. 1-800-418-9487 
WANTED-ND TICKETS ,!89-9280 What a wonderful night Out of here HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM-before 2:30 ... a goal and a destina-PUS ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED lion. mmmrentals.cam A.M. 232-2378 KERRY email: mmmrentals@aol.com P.M. 288-2726 ROCKSI 
Tuesday, September 11, 2001 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 
The Way 
with f"athe-Y J. 
Iii Nobody gets hurt, so what's wrong with pornography? 
Since the rise of the internet in the last few years, the question of pornography has become almost commonplace. As'a confessor on a college campus and from plenty of conversations I can say with some certainty that most young men have had some exposure to pornography and an apparently growing number have become compulsive in their resort to pornography and sexual fancacy. Seemingly, no one gets hurt. So what difference does it make? 
Plenty. For the guy who is beginning to rely on pornography and fantacy to allay anxiety, stress, loneliness, boredom, etc, the escape is minimal and temporary. Worse, he now returns to his previous emotions with the added burden ofshame. 
This may set him up for another episode. With succeeding episodes there is a dawning awareness that one is losing control. Certainly, not 
everyone who looks at porn will 
become compulsive about it, but all 
current studies show that sexual addictions are sharply increasing. Even ifone does not become addicted, the same dynamic of shame-and-return often apply. 
And there are spiritual reasons pornography should be avoided. The Church's long and marry a man whose ideas ofsexuality were formed by years ofviewing pornography. 

The question ofpornography always returns us to the design of God in making us sexual beings . 
Pornographic images do not depict a loving encounter but something impersonal and base. These images can "teach" the viewer wrong ideas about sexuality which may be carried over into a marriage 
relationship. 
consistent teaching on sexuality tells us that the expression of intimate love (as well as the possibility ofprocre­ation) is an essential element of sexual expression. Pornographic images do not depict a loving en­counter but something impersonal and base. These images can "teach" the viewer wrong ideas about sexual­ity which may be carried over into a 
marriage relationship. I would not want a sister or daughter of mine to God is not ashamed ofsex. God made our sexuality, and along with all creation, and has pronounced it good. According 

to John Paul II, when sex is the expression of complete self­surrender to the other, when it says I am yours 
and you are 
mine, completely and wichout reservation within the context of marriage, it is an experience that is holy. Sex can be sacred. Pornogra­phy denies that sacredness. Why would we settle for anything less? 
Fr. J Steele, CSC welcomes your questions and commentsfor future The Way columns. Email him at ministry. I @nd.edu. 

PRAY. 

Take a Break for Chriscian Fellowship, Nusic & Prayer 
lntefflbMMilll 
m tM.__..,...lJ'er 
Everir Wednesday Niaht 

All are welcome IO p.m. • Morrlissey Hall Chapel 
featuring the Celebration Choir 
CAMPUS BIBLE STUDY 
an Interfaith Bible Study, meets for one hour 
every Tuesday night 
from 7:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. 

followed by a period of fellowship. 
THE FIRST MEETING 

is TONIGHT, Tuesday, Sept. 11th 
in room 114 of the Coleman-Morse Center. 
All students are invited to participate. Come and share your faith and your insights. 
631-7800 
email: ministry.1@nd.edu
C-M 

web: www.nd.edu/~ministry
Campus Ministry 

OFFICE HOURS 114 • Retreats Area Mon-Thurs 8:oo a.m. -9:00 p.m. Fri 8:oo a.m. · 5:00 p.m. 
309 Reception Area Mon -Fri 8:oo a.m. -5:00 p.m. 
This Week in CM 
campus Ministrv 
•Confirmation Information Night 
8:00 p.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
Lector Workshop #2 
8:30 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Eucharistic Ministry Workshop #2 
10:00 p.m. 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Campus Bible Study 
7:00 p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center 


Freshmen Intro First Year Partner Reception 
7:00 p.m. Reeker's Hospitality Room 


Asian American Students Retreat 
Sacred Heart Parish Center 
Latino Freshman Retreat 
Sacred Heart Parish Center 
I
807 Mass I 
8:00 p.m. j Lounge, Coleman-Morse Center I I 
l I l I
t1urdav 

Voices of Faith Welcome Back Dinner 
3:00 p.m. 103 Coleman-Morse Center 


Sankofa Scholars Honors Assembly 
7:00 p.m. 104 Coleman Morse Center 
Rejoice! African American Catholic Mass 
10:00 p.m. Notre Dame Our Mother Chapel Coleman-Morse Center 
Freshman Retreat #36
•

(September 28-29) Tuesday, August 28 through September 24 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
NFL 
Irvin saliva sample obtained 
Associated Press 
DENTON, Texas 

Authorities working on the year-old drug case against former Dallas Cowboys receiver Michael Irvin obtained a saliva sample from him Monday after exe­cuting a search warrant. 
District Judge Lee Gabriel had denied a motion by Irvin's attorney for a hear­ing to oppose issuing the warrant. 
The attorney, Peter Ginsberg, said prosecutors wanted to test the saliva against a marijuana ciga­rette found when Irvin was arrested last summer. 
Ginsberg said he opposed the search warrant because Irvin is not charged with a marijuana-related crime. Irvin has pleaded innocent to a felony charge of pos­sessing less than a gram of cocaine. 
"I think Michael Irvin has been singled out in this case," Ginsberg said after a court hearing Monday. He added that taking the saliva sample was an "unwarrant­ed invasion of Mr. Irvin's privacy." 
The judge also set an Oct. 19 hearing date to consider Ginsberg's motion to dismiss the charge. A trial date was set for Jan. 14. 
Irvin did not speak to reporters when he left the courthouse Monday. 
Irvin was arrested Aug. 9, 2000, two months after com­pleting probation on a no­contest plea to felony cocaine possession. He was at a Dallas apartment where law officers said they found marijuana and Ecstasy pills, which Irvin denies were his. 
But Irvin was not indicted until June. If convicted, he could face six months to two years in jail and up to a $10,000 fine. 
Ginsberg has said Irvin was arrested on one charge and is being prosecuted on another. Ginsberg also said he had concerns about the 10-month span between the arrest and indictment. 
Assistant District Attorney Lee Ann Breading has said her office didn't receive the case until February, delay­
"/ think Michael Irvin 
has been singled 
out in this case." 
Peter Ginsberg Irvin's attorney 
ing prosecutors in present­ing it to the grand jury. 
Breading said Monday she could not explain the delay in seeking the search war­rant for Irvin's saliva sam­ple. 
The case evolved after offi­cers with the Collin-Denton County Drug Task Force, of which the FBI is a part, tried to arrest Rhonda Adaham on a federal warrant at her apartment. 
Adaham was not there, but her sister, Nelly Adaham. and Irvin were found and arrested. Nelly Adaham also was indicted on the same charge as Irvin, but Rhonda Adaham was not indicted. 
Irvin retired in July 2000 
and was hired for Fox Sports Net's Sunday pregame show. A few weeks after his arrest. Fox announced that Irvin would not be an analyst for the network. 
After Irvin was indicted, Breading said she expected prosecutors to recommend jail time rather than proba­tion because of Irvin's previ­ous offenses. 
In 1996, Irvin pleaded no contest to felony cocaine possession in exchange for four years of deferred pro­bation, a $10,000 fine and dismissal of misdemeanor marijuana possession charges. 
The NFL suspended Irvin for five games. He finished his deferred probation on the charge just before he announced his retirement. · 
He was a member of three Super Bowl champion teams with the Cowboys and estab­lished himself for 12 seasons as one of the NFL's best receivers. 
µa8 = Math Club 
ALL MAJORS WELCOME!!!! 
1st meeting 
Tuesday, Sept. 11 8pm 258Hurley 

Refreshments provided 
Math-It's More Than Just Calculus 
It's puzzles too.... For example 
SEND +MORE MONEY 

Tuesday, September 11, 2001 
CLUB SPORTS 
Flynn takes 11th 
at lndia.na race 
Special to The Observer 
Amidst torrential rain and lightning, Sean Flynn rode to an 11th place fmish among 37 eilte collegiate riders in the Mens A Cross Country cycling race at the Indiana University Mountain Biko Race. 
The race was held at the chal­lenging Knaw Bone, Ind. course. This is the second strong show­ing for Flynn, who finish,ed among the top 10 two weeks ago at Wisconsin Whitewater. 
Ultimate 
The men and women both saw adion this weekend in the annual Chicago Tune-up, an event open to colleges and clubs. The men started strong, defeating clubs from Illinois, 8­5, and Detroit, 11-6. A third win, 12-11 over a club from Ohio earned the Irish a jump to a hilgher classification. 
The team then dropped two games to clubs from Austin, Texas, 12-9, and Massachusetts, 13-7. Sunday saw more spiriticd play, but the cllub fell to 3-4 for the weekend with a 13-10 loss to another Texas team, and a 12-7 loss to a tough Colorado contingent. 
Kevin Kraft anchored a solid defense, while Brian Carrigan and Jess Moor starred on attack. 
The women's squad, decimat­ed by graduation, played well in a losing effort as it dropped all six contests over the weekend. A quirk in the draw found the team up against the top three seeds in their pool, in one of the largest and most competitive tournaments in the country. 
Veterans Erin Fleming and Julie Schutte led the attack with support from Katie Garvey and Kim Keefe. 
NEW STUDY OPPORTUNITY IN JAPAN! 

You can now study in Tokyo for a semester 
Through University of Notre Dame International Study Programs. 
NO PRIOR LANGUAGE STUDY REQUIRED 
INFORMATION SESSION 
5:00 PM 

Thursday, September 13 116 DeBartolo 
APPLICATION DEADLINE FOR SPRING 2002: SEPTEMBER 15 

SANTIAGO, CHILE 
INFORMATION MEETING 
With Carmen Nanni Student Returnees 
Tuesday, September 11, 21001 231 DeBartolo 5:00-6:30 p.m. 
IT'S NOT TOO LATE TO APPLY FOR SP:N:JNG 2002. 
Application Deadline: Oct. 1, 2001 for Spring 2002 
Dec. 1, 2001 for Fall '02 and AUl Year 2002-03 Applications Available: www.nd.edu/.......intlstud/ 
..:. 
Tuesday, September 11, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
Football 
continued from page 20 
our techniques." 
The primary thing the Irish are working on is communica­tion. Davie felt the Irish may have tried to do too much offensively Saturday, and in trying to do too much, accom­plished nothing. Monday after­noon was dedicated to intro­ducing the game plan that will be used against Purdue. Davie said the Irish are working on simplifying the offense. By simplifying. Davie hopes the Irish will cut down on the number of mental errors they made against Nebraska. · 
"The whole emphasis today was getting [the game plan] in early and eliminating some of those communication errors," he said. "It's a plan that everyone is involved in. There's not a problem we don't have that we can't fix if we do a good job coaching and our players sink into it." 
''I've got to come up with the best possible plan and the simplest," offensive coordina­tor Kevin Rogers said. "I want us to come out and play aggressively and play hard and not be tentative and not be walking on eggshells. We have to play with confidence and excitement." 
Notre Dame's season is far from over. 13ut this week's game against the Boilermakers is absolutely critical. How they rebound from the Nebraska loss will set the tone for the remainder of the season. 
"What can we do now?" Boiman said. "We can either drop the tank and quit, or we can see what kind of character we have on this team, and I think we can do the latter." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 

r----------------------~I 
I I I I 


Register in Advance at RecSports For More Info. Call 1-6100 Demonstration Tuesday, September 11, Rockne Rm. 219 6:15PM Classes open to all ND students, faculty, staff, retirees and their spouses 
Z?~~ 
www.nd.edu/-recsport

I~----------------------~ 
Strong.Character. 


For nearly a century, the name Andersen has been synonymous with integrity. But it's the people behind the name that guarantee the innovation and quality our clients have come to expect. What really sets us apart, though, lies not so much in what we do. But who we are. 
Our strength is our people. Their innovation. Their conviction to do what they say. Are you ready to be a part of something special? Make your move. Forward. It's a great time to be at Andersen. 
University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Seniors: Come see us on campus. 
Andersen Day on Campus 
Tuesday, Sept 11th 2pm -6pm CCE Lower Level Drop by anytime. Snacks served all day; join us for Pizza at 5pm 
Take a few minutes to talk with representatives from Andersen -and take control of your future. Register to win a Palm Pilot and other prizes. Casual attire bring a copy of your resume listing your location preference. We look forward to seeing you. 
Remember to sumbit your resume online at GO !RISH by September 16th to be considered for our October 3 on-campus interviews. 
>

ANDERSEN 
www.andersen.com/careers 
©2001 Andersen. All rights reserved. Andersen is an equal opportunity employer. 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, September 11, 2001 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
Taibl takes campus tournament title 
Special to The Observer 

Junior Terri Taibl was a model of consistency for 72 holes as she led from start to finish in winning the Notre Dame women's campus golf champi­onship by three strokes over Shannon Byrne at the Warren Golf Course. 
Taibl, who never trailed by less than two strokes in the tour­nament that was played over two weekends, turned in her best round on Sunday as she shot a 77 following back-to-back rounds of 78 last weekend and an 80 on Saturday for her 72­hole mark of 313. 
"1 was very happy with the way I played all four rounds, I played pretty consistent golf both weekends," Taibl said. "I got off to a good start last week with the first 78 and that helped my confidence." 
Taibl, who averaged 81.82 last season, is coming off a strong spring and summer of play. 
"Last spring was really a turn­ing point for me. I played well in the spring tournaments and started to get my confidence. This past summer, I did well in all the tournaments that I entered. That has carried over to the way I've played this fall," Taibl said. 
Her two closest challengers for the entire tournament were Byrne and senior Kristin McMurtrie who never got any closer than three strokes after McMurtrie opened with an 80 in the first round. 
Byrne, who is the team's top returning scorer from 2000-01 opened with an 85. then fired a tournament-best round of 74 last Saturday before closing with a pair of 80's this weekend for her 72-hole total of 319. McMurtrie was eight strokes behind Taibl with a 321. After rounds or 80 and 84 last week­end. McMurtrie matched Taibl's 80-77 finish over the final 36 holes. 
Rounding out the top live Irish golfers were Rebecca Rogers and Jeanne Murphy as Rogers finished 14 strokes behind Taibl with a 327 while Murphy was a stroke behind with a 328 (87-81­80-80). Both sophomores had solid weekends to get hack in the tournament race. Rogers had the top round of the weekend for the women on Saturday as she fired a 76. Along with Sunday's 81, she equalled Taibl and McMurtrie's scores for this weekend as each had 157 totals. 
The women's team, under new head coach Debby King, opens the 2001-02 fall schedule this coming Saturday and Sunday, Sept. 15-16 when they travel to East Lansing, Mich.. to partic­ipate in the Mary Fossum Invitational at Michigan State University. 
SMC 
continued from page 20 

Shannon Artnak and Jen Concannon, Saint Mary's is counting on their midfield. Lynn Taylor also adds depth at either center-midfielder or sweeper. 
"Our center-midfield is very strong," Muth said. "[Taylor] is valuable to us at either position." 
Hope's midfield also has the ability to dominate the game. Senior midfielder Liz Dornbos has returned to the Flying Dutch after being named first team All-MIAA last season and leads Hope in goals. 
After a disappointing tour­nament in Tennessee Sept. 1, Saint Mary's is looking to start the :vtlAA season with a clean slate. 
"We're putting the tourna­ment behind us and starting the season [today]." Muth said. 
For Muth. today really will be the start or the season. The junior forward sat out half of last season and part of this season with a string of injuries. Tonight she'll finally be able to get back in the game, even if she only plays part of it. 
"[The injury! is much better. but Coach didn't want to throw me back in," she said. ''I've been gradually increas­ing the amount of time I've been working out." 
Action kicks off at 4 p.m. at Saint Mary's. 
Contact Katie Mcvoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 

Men 
continued from page 20 
played very well. and although we didn't get the win, it showed us we can play with the best teams in the cour:try." 
The Irish drew first blood at the 13:42 mark in the first half when junior Erich Braun scored on an assist from sophomore Devon Prescod. Furman would match the score six minutes later on a goal from co-captain John Berry N usum. 
The score remained knotted at 1-1 until the 70:57 mark when Irish midfielder Justin Detter knocked in the rebound of Braun's shot. With about 10 minutes left, Furman again tied the score on a goal from Sergei Raad. 
"In their newspaper, the Furman coach said this was the best game he'd ever seen in Lhat stadium." Clark said. "It was a very exciting mat,ch-up -back and forth the whole time." 
Notre Dame midfielder Filippo Chillemi nearly ended the game for the Irish in the first overtime, but his shot was punched away by Furman goalkeeper Scott Blount on a diving save. 
"It was a tremendous save by their goalkeeper that pre­vented us from winning," said Clark about the play. 
In the second overtime, Furman's Nusum ended the game with his second goal of the day on Raad's assist. 
"We played a pretty good game against Furman," _junior co-captain Andreas Forstner said. "When we went ahead in the game. we may have made a few mistakes because of a lack of concentration, but overall it was one of the better games we've played." 
The Irish returned to the field Sunday against the Oemson Tigers. but the disap­pointing loss two days earlier seemed to be in the back of their minds. The Tigers shut out the Irish 4-0 and allowed Notre Dame only three shots in the game. 
"I think that the disappoint­ment of the Furman game was still with us." Forstner said. "We seemed to be missing our focus, and we never got on our game. Clemson just did to us what we wanted to do to them. They were pressuring us up high and getting the ball away from us." 
Clemson jumped out to a quick lead at the 12:49 mark with a goal from Dimelon Westfield, and then followed up three minutes later with another from Steven Rhyne. 
In the second half. Westfield added a third goal. his second of the day, and Ross Goodacre tacked on the final goal to bring the score to 4-0. 
"The Clemson game put some questions to us, and we have to come up with some answers," Clark said. "I told the guys that they can use this game as a stumbling block or a stepping stone. What's important is that you learn from what went wrong in the game and use it as a spring­board for the rest of the sea­son." 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu. 

A._ I-E~~O~A._i. ~A._FETY U~Ii.I:E I-~E-VE~TIO~~ ~Ei.IIIWA._~ FOR NOTRE DAME AND ST.MARY'S S1'UDENTS PRESENTED BY DOMUS PROPERTY INVESTMENTS & THE SOUTH BEND POLICE DEPARTMEl\fT TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2001 LOCATION AT: 800 BLOCK OF EAST WASHINGTON STREE1T WEST OF NOTRE DAME AVENUE & ST. PETER S'rREET . REFRESHMENTS WILL BE SERVED STARTING AT 5:00 PM HAMBURGERS/HOTDOGS/CHIPS & SODA . SEMINAR WILL START PROMPTLY AT 5:30 J>M RESERVE YOUR SEATS 234-2436  


Tuesday, September 11, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
[ took a road trip to Nebraska this weekend. Maybe you did, too. 
[ expected to see a lot of dif­ferent things, as I'm sure you did. Going 
through western Illinois, Iowa and Nebraska, I saw a lot of farmland. 
I saw odd road signs 


and strange  Ted Fox  
gas station  
names  
sprinkled along the 1,200-mile  Fox Sports ... Almost  
round trip  
route, and  

even the birthplaces of Ronald Reagan, Bob Feller and "The Duke" himself, John Wayne. 
And, as you all know, when you're drinking fast food Cokes like a madman, you see your 
Irish fall in matchup of sloppy superpowers 
fair share of shady public restrooms. 
But there was one thing I believed we would see that never showed up. Indeed, it was the reason for that whole 10-hour drive, wasn't it? (Don't try and tell me you went all that way to see the Ilerbert Hoover Memorial Museum.) 
That one elusive thing was a good football game between two of the most storied pro­grams in college football histo­ry. Instead, we saw the Nebraska Cornhuskers beat the Notre Dame Fighting Irish, 27­10. 
Neither team played well. They combined for five turnovers in the flrsi quarter alone, A total of 19 flags were thrown for 132 yards in penal­ties. 
Nebraska had a punt blocked, setting up the only Notre Dame touchdown; Notre Dame had a punt snap go sailing some 40 yards downfield the wrong way. 


College Democrats 


Please join us for our first meeting of the year 
Tuesday, Sept. 11 7 p.m. 182 Nieuwland Hall 
However, the Huskers' sloppi2 ness wasn't as sloppy as that of the Irish, as evidenced by the final score. Nebraska marched 65 yards to a touchdown on their opening series, really the only impressive drive of the game for either team. 
The Cornhuskers then turned a Notre Dame fumble on their first play from scrimmage into a touchdown on the ensuing play. Less than five minutes in, perhaps while some Notre Dame backers were still mak­ing their way in from "pre.game festivities" a few blocks away, and the Huskers had a 14-0 lead. 
Memorial Stadium's a tough place to play to begin with, and spotting the home team two touchdowns and attempting to come back is like trying to win a BCS spot playing out of the WAC (sorry, Fresno St.) 
The game never got close again, and the surprise that surely overtook everyone wear­ing gold, both on and off the field and back on campus, only came out a few hours later in the form of: Did that really just happen? 
There were some positives for Notre Dame. Despite only pick­ing up 162 yards of total offense, the wide receiving trio of seniors David Givens, Javin Hunter and Arnaz Battle com­bined for 13 receptions. Givens led the way with seven catches for 66 yards. 

Sophomore quarterback Carlyle Holiday displayed both exceptional running and pass­ing ability in his lirst collegiate action, showing why the Huskers recruited him so heav­ily for their option offense. 
Senior cornerback Shane Walton blocked that punt that set up the Irish score. Senior strong safety Donald Dykes made 10 tackles, and in the words of one of my broadcast · colleagues, "laid some serious lumber down" with his hits. 
Senior defensive end Anthony Weaver recorded a sack and caused a fumble, and the Irish defense as a whole, after that rocky first five minutes, kept Nebraska from really cashing in on multiple series that start­ed in or near the Irish half of the field. 
But the bottom line was that wasn't nearly enough. And both players and fans alike were left to make the quiet trip home, still not quite believing what had just happened in America's heartland. 
Sure, the Irish were 14-point underdogs, but who bought into that? That was a bunch of "rah-rah, Nebraska is untouch­able at home" smoke blown out across the country for the last 

SEASONS WANTED INDIVIDUAL GAMES 
Preferred Tickets 


THE SEMINAR 

• 
Service-learning through various sites in Appalachia, October 21-27, 2001 

• 
One credit Theology course 

• 
Involves orientation & follow-up classes 

• 
Past participants in Appalachia Seminar are encouraged to appply as Site Coordinators 

• 
Presents opportunity to work, laugh, & learn with others 


The Appalachia Seminar during Fall and Spring break presents a unique service­learning opportunity. Students travel to a variety of sites in Appalachia which focus on issues concerning rural health care, the environment, women, children, and housing construction. Through hands on work and person-to-person contacts, students experience the cultural richness of the area and begin to understand and analyze the social forces that influence the Appalachian people. 
APPLICATIONS 

Available at the Center for Social Concerns Due date: Wednesday, September 12 by 10 p.m. $40 deposit with application (non-refundable if accepted) Apply online at http://centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu/OnlineApps/APLearning.htm 
FURTHER INFORMATION 

Ben Powers, Student Task Force Co-Chairperson, 634-1147 Carl Loesch, Seminar Director, 631-317 5 Center for Social Concerns, 631-5293 
three months. 
When I made that ptediction a week ago that the Irish would win this game, or at the very worst lose in an epic college football battle, I wasn't saying that as a Notre Dame homer wishing for a miracle. 
Compare the two teams and tell me what you think. Yes, the Huskers might have the edge at particular positions, but there is no doubt in my mind that the 2001 Notre Dame Fighting Irish boast at least as much talent, if not more, than the 2001 Nebraska Cornhuskers. 
So why didn't Notre Dame win? Maybe it's as tactical as not working the ball more than 10 or 15 yards down the field with their potentially explosive passing game. 
Maybe it's as simple as not having any games prior to this one to get out those week one jitters. When you're only one game into the season, it's pretty tough to say. 
Either way, Nebraska's done, at least for now. 
This coming weekend's trip to Purdue won't be nearly as long or filled with as many monu­ments of the college road trip. 
However, the same ABC crew will be there, and a split national TV audience populated with Notre Dame alums, stu­dents, fans and haters will once again be looking on. 
But forget about them. Forget about us. 
It's 11-on-11 for 60 minutes on a 100-yard long field. That's where a statement is still wait­ing to be made. 
Ted Fox can be reached at tfox@nd.edu. The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not nec­essarily those ofThe Observer. 


Tuesday, September 11, 2001 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS 
SMC VOLLEYBALL Now open for lunch 7 days a week 
Belles play Knights 
.--· 
.-.~ Dollli..o"
in MIAA road match 
...~,/''" 7~ Pirzu Deliw,!1 E.lff.Jffrls. 
2001 

By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Spores Editor 
The Belles take on the Knights of Calvin tonight in a road match that is sure to keep Saint Mary's working hard. 
The Knights are currently ranked No. 1 in the MIAA, follow­ing a second place finish last sea­son. Under the direction of first­year head coach Jerry Bergsma, formerly the assistant coach. the Knights are 5-1 overall and undefeated in two MIM match­es. 
While Calvin is fighting for the top MIAA spot, Saint Mary's is working from lower on the totem pole. The Belles finished last sea­son in seventh place in the MIM, with a league record of 3-12. They are coming oiT of a league loss to Albion last Wednesday and may be forced to play with­out leading middle hitter Jolie LeBeau, who suffered an ankle injury in that game. 
To topple the Knights, the Belles need a big stone to throw. 
"We have more offense this year and I think that they are not going to expect that from us," said Belles head coach Julie Schroeder-Biek. 
The Belles have added depth to their outside hitting position allowing them to rely less on senior Angela Meyers hitting, but tough offense may not be 
THE 
CAREER 
CENTER. 
enough. The Belles will also have to step up their defense if they want to dam Calvin's offensive charge. 
"The other thing is we are going to have to play some good backcourt defense because our block is going to be fairly inexpe­rienced our back r.ourt is going to have to pick up," Schroeder-Bick said. 
In addition to losing LeBeau to an injury, the Belles are also suf­fering under the loss of Elizabeth Albert, who will not play full rota­tion tonight due to a quad strain. Sophomore Alison Shevik, who generally plays a half rotation, will be filling in for Albert and Schroeder-Bick doesn't expect much change in ability at that position. However, the loss of LeBeau will play a major role in tonight's game. 
"Jolie's position is the one that's going to affect us," Schroeder-Bick said. "She's a senior and she's been a middle hitter for four years. It will he a freshmen filling in to block at that position." 
Which freshmen will fill in at middle hitter remains to be seen. However, all eight first year play­ers got some experience on the court this weekend at the Lake 
Michigan Invitational. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 

pm 
lJr:td.E>:r-gr-a.du.a.te ser:i.ior-s, sec::or1d.-year­
MBA.s, =s iri Ac::cc:n.:u"l.taricy st1..1d.e.rits 
(a.tt..ir-e is business fcn:na.l) 
fri~ 
s~t:.~ 14 
9:30 a:rn-3:30 pm 
All st:::uclen.t.s :regard.less of deg=, rna.jor-, cx:,llege., or-year­Catti.:,:,e is busi.ness casual) 
_j c:::,_:yce 

:E:irtlCJUt:.rno:re! 
For rnor-e .::i...n.:EorITlc'\.tion. al:::,o,Jt th.e i;:,,ar-tic::i:pa.t.irlg-c::~es, 
jab ~cr-ipt:i..=s,  a.i:.cl  c::c,n,t.a.c::ts,  
access  The  Ca..reer  Ce.n.ter  
"'791=.JE:ite:  

• 
Ge, to .... c:a.:reerc~ter .. n.d _~Ll,, 

• 
Click on the "Go IR..TSH" title 1::er an::'! erit=r usernarne arid pass=ord 

• 
Click "Jobs" ar:od. th.an "Find E.:rn;p.1.oyer-s" 


-S=ll to and. c::L:i.ck on. "Advanced. Seax-ch.u 


Free :oeliverv 
• . 
. 

271-0300 
Your Campus Delive1ry Expert Serving you from 11 :00 a.m. Everyday 
Campus Special #1 Campus Special #2 
Hot and Now!! Thin Thursdays 
Large Thin Crust
Large One Topping Pizza 
Pepperoni Pizza
And An Order Of Twisty 

(Thursdays Only)
Bread 

.$7.99 ..$5.99 
02001 Dornlno'.!i Plzq,. LLC Coupon Not Vylld ~P Diih Sl.00 E.x:tru. Wlth any other ofTer. Offer vaHd whh Coupon ~:!001 Domino'~ Piu.n. U..C Coupon Nnl Vt'&lkl With only. VaUd at p11rtlrip11lln1 stores only. Prltcs May :my orhc:r utter. Ofter vuliO with c~mpou l)nly. VuliU Van·. Customer pays ~)ft tax when appUcable. 
u.t porticipru:ina st...,rc" t"lnly. Priccll Moy Vary. Our driven carry la'I then $20. Cash value 1/204 
Ctutomtr pay~ !laler. I.alt wher~ nprli.:a!Me. Our-driver-A Hurry, llmlted time only! cum: ie.i~ tJ1eo S:!O. Cu11h ..,.uluL" 1no¢ 
Hurry, llmlted Ume onlyl 

-~---------------------­
Can1pus Special #3 
Feed A Friend 
Add A 2 Liter Bottle of Coke Or Twisty Bread To Any Order For Only 
..$1.99 

iti.2001 °'-'min1..1·.:; Pizza. LLC CouP'm Not Yl.\lkl With any othC'r nffeor. Otl~r Yalid with Coupon nnly. Valid ut p:.trticipatin¥ ston:s only. Pri1.-es Muy Vary. Cu~tomcr (')QY!I !lalc-i. tax where-applicable-. Our drivers canv ~~ then S20. Cu.'lh \'1due 11:?0¢ Hurry, limited time only! 


I l 


AAR 

Abbott Lal:x:>ratories A.BN ~0/La.Sa.:::I..le Ea..n.k Ac:::.cer1t1..1.rE! 
~ieleen. 
ACNielse~ BASES, US 
.A.J..J..eg:i..an.ce Hea..lt.hcare Corpc>rat:i.nn .Alta Pha.rrna.ceu.ticala 
(a. d.iv-isic::r:a. of Pfizen:-) 
Arn.erica.:n. E>q;:>reas F:i..nancJ_a.1. .Adv:i..se>rs 
AI.neritech/SBC Glo1::::eu... Net'\r,/'ork 
A:riderseri 
AON Corporation. .ApJ;;::,liecl SysteIT'L..9 # il""l.c. 
AT&T 

Ba.in. & Company I3ank On.e Corporation Ba:x:.t:.er 1 realt:.hca.r-,e 
Co:r::pc:,ration. BDO Se:id.n\an. BlC>C4Tll::::,erg F:Ln.ar1c:ial 
Marketa Boston Co~sultin..g Gro~p BP Oil CC>XT1P.'a.r:LY ca.lifo.rrri.c.l Eranc:h:lse -:ra>c. 
Boa.rd Carson. Pirie Scott & Co. cent.ra.i rn.teJ.ligenc,e 
Agerioy 
Crtlcago Con.su1tin.g­At:.~t'--1.a.ries: 
Cit~g-.rCJl..lp Corporate and 
.Invest::.mient. 
B~n.k/Sa1omon S~ith Barney 
c:I a:rit::y Cc>nsu.J..t.:u,g Cocl-n:::-a.ril c~ori.ia & 
Company Corne:r.:lca Bank Cr~e Chizek :r:la..ir"J. R.8."LI.Eicl-uar Wesse1s Da~is Conder Enderle & 
Sloan 

r:,,efE!'ri.se F.ir"l:.,E.U·1.ce and Iu:::!co,-1.n.tin.g Se:r""\.T1ce 
J:le.-10:ltte & Tauche, 
:c::")e,]..c,.:Lt.t<3 C'Cl'J:.""U:n..1.t.~ 
D~P~y (a Jo~eo~ & 
,.::T'ohn.son. Corni;.">a:riy) 
:r:>.:riAl,,a.'l...1.s C'_.epi.ta.1 
Manag-ernent:. 
F. & J Ga] lo Win,sn-y 
Eli .L,;i_].Jy & Cc:>mpa. n.y En.t43rpr.is~ Rent-A-Car Em.at & Youn.g 
Fac:t:eet Reaea.i::·cl"l. Systems F BOP CC:...""Jo~r~t.io.:n. F:i.ft:l-, 'Lhi.rd. Bank 
Genen::a.J.. EJ..ect=ic Ge!ne=al Mi.lls 
Gi.bec:>n a.n.d. Asaoc::iat.es GoldJna.r1.. 1 Sachs & Ce>. Grea.t:. Weist Life Hea.d El t:ror:i.g 
1-IEB •3roc:::e:i::-y Cornpan.y Hor1~""'7ell :r::at-1:: c::o:ri;::x:>:ra.t:lon. 
Ja..rl.Sf:IE!r:l P~rYTI.a.Ce-u.tica. JoJ·u-1.Son. & Joi-n-,_sc:.,n. Company) 
Joh.rl.eor:i. & Jol"l.rl.sc:.,n. 
Jorcl.c!:lrl. & JordEl.rl. Kea.r:tE!!, Cc:.,n.su.lt.in.g Gr-01...1.p ( fc::>~ly-Bi::--ickiez:­& .A.ssocia.tes) Kmart 
KFM(~ 
Kra.ft. Liberty Ivu.tua.::t Life =iv.est.ors Li.rx::::c::,lr:i. P..a.rtrl.er"s 
Lu.t.rcci Elect.rc::,n_ics Cc,. ~.:i.ott Va.cat.ion. Club Ma.:ss l"-7l...1.t1...1.a.l InB'l..l.r'a.rlCE! 
.M.a.y J::>epa.rt.rnen.t. Stores Co,rnpany 
J'.VJ:9n. 1 ,s Wearhous€:" Mo:rg~!lln. Sta.riJ..ey 
t-la.t.:i..co:-ia.l C.i.t:.y-Ce>:1:J;X:>:ratic:n-1 News America Ma.rket1ng 
Nortl~st.ern Mu.t::ua.1 
F.:i.J,a,J;"'l.C':La.1 NeC'\;\1'0rk:. Ho1c;::,pis Group Oak l:3rook Ba..rik Or-t:.hc>-~ei J.. Fl--i.~ceu.tical ( a John.son. & Jol-'l.rtaon.. Corni;,an.y) Pet.a:i~son. 
CoJ:"l.SulLing/Nav-igant:. 1?:F..:L'ZJE:!!J~ 
~ l;ii'in...:.,"1.rlC'.ia.J. ~C'EtB 
PriCllll::!'"\N'a. tet:rh«:::>l...l.s~Cc,e>pors 
Pr:i.rnE'!!r:i..ca/C.:it.:i.~ 
Proc:.:t:;e:r & Ga.In.ble 
Compar:i.y 
Qt_ict.d,?Graph.::Lcs 
Robe.:ct W. Baird & 
Cornpa.:n.y 
~ I.1---i.""V"~st:1ner1.ts Co:~ra.t:.ion. Srna.r1= & ~Ae>c:i.c1.tE:ts SpE-,su:·, T~s & KeJ..J..ogg st~t R.ie::Lu.s F«:>sa I Inc_ 
St:.2:-cu-;ig Cap:Lta.l 
Mar1c1.gE'!rn<Str1 t 
.SU.egi...:,,e~ Ir1.ter-.n.E:1.t.io:r1al c:;r,oup 
Targ<E~t 
t_ 
(l) 
(a. 

en 
Tuesday, September 11, 2001 
The Observer . TODAY page 19 
FOURTH AND INCHES 

'f FAMOUS LAST WORDS J;;\,F SLEE!'? NO, I'M NOT GOING TO SLEEP. I'VE SOT A TEST TO­MORROW. I'M JUST GOING TO"CHOCOLAT?" I DUNNO, MAYBE. BVT, LAY DOWN ANI>,. REST MY EYES...BB.IEVE ME, GIRLS. YOU'RE GONNA LOVE "DUDE, WH~E'S MY CARI",F:;,c---:::....~~  ...ANO REMEMBER Cl.ASS: THERE'S NO SUCH THING AS A STUPID QUESTION ..  

FOXTROT 
WELL, CLASS, THE OA'l' MANY oF YOU HAVE BEEN DREADIN& HAS ARRIVED. 

\NOOHoo.'
ToDAY IS THE DA'Y I 
'C'E5SS.'
ANNOUNCE OUR 
SWEET MOMMA
FIRST MATH TEST. 
TOM KEELEY 
BILL AMEND 
j ASoN, LET ME SE Sl'Ec1f1c A8oVT WHAT IT IS THEY'VE 
BEEN DREAD1N&••. 
/ 
.I~ iToP \J ~ 1UMP11'lG (­
uP AND 

'-­
DOWN, 'YOU 
FREAI<! 

B B ~m
EFUDDLED AND EMUSED CUNNINGHAM 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 In no particular key
1 Jazz lick 36 Take seriously 
5 Item on a to-do list 37 Interstate divider
9 Intriguing bunch 41 Like some
14 Letters on a exhausts
cross 42 Trump Castle 
15 Widemouthed employee
jug 43 Neighbor of 
16 Use a soapbox 
Georgia17 The big house 
46 Lure into crime 18 Churn 
50 Dynamo part 19 Gets a lift 
51 Empty spaces 20 Nickname for 
53 "_Gang•

Leona Helmsley 54 "People Are 23 Keats praised People" rock one 
group 24 Harper's Bazaar 
57 _ dish (lab illustrator 

vessel) 25 Second shot 
61 This, in Tijuana 30 Make beloved 
62 •Jake's Thing• 32 Piled up author 

63 Doughnut-shaped 64 Kind of collar 65 Riga resident 66 Take potshots (at) 67 Fresh-mouthed 68 Guesstimate phrase 
DOWN 
1 Suggestive 2 Sequentially 3 Quaker 4 Send packing 5 It's another day 6 In flight 7 Gunk 8 Curly cabbage 9 Eye bank 
donation 10 Meyers of "Kate &Allie" 11 Good, in the 'hood 

Puzzle by Sar¦ h Kellar 12 Broke a fast 
37 On the disabled 
13 Brown of renown 
list 21 Poet's "below" 
38 •_Camera" 22 It stays by your 
39 Seuss's Horton . 
. side 
for one 26 Summer top 
40 Not the brightest bulb on the tree 28 Wail like a 41 Courtroom banshee V.I.P.'s 29 Announcer Hall 44 "lxnay!" 31 Aerie hatchling 45 Spleen 32 Soprano Gluck 47 B&B patron 34 Nothin' 
48 Financial 35 Yeoman's yes checks 
56 Saint-_ (French seaport) 
57 Quart divs. 58 Seemingly forever 
59 Part of TNT 60 Dead letters? 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1·888·7·ACR0SS. 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON 
THIS DAY: Ben Bradlee, Geral­dine Ferraro, Branford Marsalis, Macaulay Culkin, Chris Burke 
Happy Birthday: Re-evaluate before you take your next step. If someone has been holding you back, you may want to deal with this issue before proceeding. Once the coast is dear, it should be full steam ahead. Your belief in your own ability will help you pull things together. It's time to make a difference. Your numbers: 11, 14, 22, 35, 42, 47 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don't be too eager to agree with people who push their opinions on you. Take care not to give too much of yourself to others. Loss­es are likely if valuables are left out in the open. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Make love, not war. Fighting over petty things will lead to isolation. Expend energy wisely. Physical activities will pay off. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20}: Easy come, easy go. You will have difficulty hanging on to your cash. Put your cards away and carry a limited amount of cash for entertainment. Better still -put in some overtime if at all possible. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Financial limitations are likely if you have recently become involved in a dubious financial scheme. Your mate won't be too happy if you have kept your investment deals a secret. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Protect your personal life by not dis• cussing it with outsiders. To make things better, talk to those at home. You will be able to spice up your life if you are passionate, consider-
EUGENIA LAST 
ate and to the point. 00000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
Get involved in a learning experi­
ence. Sign up for special courses 
that will provide valuable infor­
mation about future trends and 
secure investments for retire­
ment. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): 
Don't be talked into donating large sums of money that you really can't afford to part with. You may be a bleeding heart, but charity begins at home. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
Depression due to a domestic problem is likely. Improve your state of mind by improving your• self through fitness, awareness or activities you enjoy. 00 
SAGIITARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 
You can handle anyone today, so 
1£ someone is making--you feel 
guilty about unfinished projects, 
tum the tables. You can accom­
plish a lot and please others by 
doing your fair share. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan 19): 
Romantic connections can be 
made through soda! or organiza­
tional acquaintances. You'll gain 
popularity if you voice a humani­
tarian opinion. It is most impor­
tant to help others. 0000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You need to be careful not to mis­lead someone who is attracted to you. Don't take on too much, or you'll be putting in long hours on a project you promised to complete. 00 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Pleasure trips will lead to romance that will enable you to fulfill your fantasies. Your desire for the unusual will be satisfied by participation in cultural events. 00000 

Birthday Baby: You can be a handful as well as a powerhouse. You are an adventurer with a great imagination and an uncanny memory. You will embrace life with gusto and will always use your knowledge wisely. 
(Need advice? Cli.eck out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
Ill 2001 Universal Press Syndicale 
49 Magic word 51 "Beau_" 52 Oscar 
contender 55 "Don't make a !" 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
-----------------------------------------------------------------~-------­
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 0 Enclosed is $95 for one academic year D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 
Name Address------------------­
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
Campus Sports National Sports
oRstRVER 

. SMC Volleyball, p. 18 
. Michael Irvin, p. 14 
. 
Club Sports p. 114 . Michael Jordan, p. 12 

. 
ND Golf, p. 16 



PORTS 
Tuesday, September 11, 2001 
FOOTBALL 

Davie puts loss in perspective 

By ANDREW SOUKUP Associat<: Spom Ediror 
Bob Davie drove his golf cart up to the gates of Notre Dame stadium, climbed out and shielded his eyes from the set­ting sun. 
"The sun came out today," he, said. Ile meant that in more than one way. 
At Monday's practice, the lrish spent the majority of timo preparing for next Saturday's game against Purdue instead of reflecting on last Saturday's game. And while Notre Dame is learning from the mistakes the Irish made against the Huskers, Davie said they still have a whole season of football to play. 
'Tm discouraged because of what happened, but we have 10 games left," he said. "Before anyone completely panics, let's put things in perspective." 
"My whole thought process lafler Saturday's los!il was what do we have to do to get bacl( and to get everyone's mindset back and how to get ready for Purdue," Irish co-captain Rocky Boiman said. "That's my only concern with for this week." 
Davie was much more relaxed and upbeat Monday than he was in the interview room after Saturday's loss. Unlike Saturday, where he lambasted the offense and shouldered the blame for Notre Dame's poor performance, Davie joked that a helicopter that flew over the practice field was trying to spy on the Irish. 
But Davie made it clear that the Irish still have a lot to work to do before they play the Boilermakers this weekend. And it's all part of the process coaches are using to mental rebuild the Irish for Saturday's match-up. 
"You don't try io create a false impression that it's a feel­good atmosphere and that everything's OK because it's not OK," he said. "We have this tremendous sense of urgency, identifying the problems and then solving. those problems. I don't feel good, I feel rotten today. But what gets you going is that you have a challenge next week." 
"It's not about the players we've got on the team, it's not about talent," said Boiman. "We just have to make sure we get our mental reps and work on 
see FOOTBALL/page 15 
SMC SOCCER 
Belles host Dutch in home opener 
By KATIE McVOY Associate Sports Editor 

Saint Mary's and Hope. College will write the latest chapter in their bitter soccer rivalry tonight when the Belles host the Flying Dutch at 4 p.m. 
These two teams last met in the final game of the 2000 season. The Flying Dutch ended the Belles season with an overtime victory. 
"[The loss] was frustrating so we want revenge this year," junior captain Heather Muth said. "We would like a victory because we've been hounded by Hope all the years I've played." 
The desire for revenge isn't going to be enough to bring a victory, however. Hope (3-2) has a tough defense that will be difficult for the Belles to break through. In their first two games of the season, the Flying Dutch posted eight goals while holding their opponents scoreless. 
Junior goalkeeper Mary Ayres made eight saves in Hope's victory against Judson this weekend. 
"Their defense is very strong," Muth said. "We're going to have to find holes." 
Despite Hope's strong defense, the turning point of tonight's game may be the midfield. The Belles strongest asset seems to be their mid­field. Led by returning sopho­more Stephanie Artnak and hacked up by freshmen 
see SMC/page] 6 
MEN'5 SOCCER 

Irish drop 2 in tourney 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sporn Writer 

The Irish men's soccer team headed into the Furman Invitational Tournament this past weekend hoping to learn where they stand against some of the nation's elite teams. After dropping a 3-2 double overtime loss to No.' 5 Furman and a 4-0 shutout to No. 16 Clemson, the Irish could see both how far they have come and how far they still have to go. 
"It was a tough weekend to have to play two teams of that caliber," head coach Bobby Clark said. "In the Furman game, we played as well as we have since I've been here, but Oemson gave us a little bit of a clinic. That game showed us exactly where he have to get to as a team." 
In the first game on Friday, Notre Dame gave the fifth-ranked Furman team all it could han­dle. The Irish kept the Paladins on the ropes the whole game, but the Irish youth showed a little as some mistakes prevented them from ever putting the game away. 
"We put some pressure on Furman and kept I.hem on their heels in the second half and into the overtime," sophomore co-captain Greg Martin said. "A few breakdowns occurred late, and they took advantage of one of them. We 

. SMC Soccer vs. Hope, Today, 4 p.m. 

OBSERVER 
. ND Volleyball vs. Michigan, Wednesday, 7 p.m.
SP 
TS 

online du ·sifieds 
. Men's Soccer vs. Rhode Island, Friday, 7 p.m.AT AGLANCE . Football at Purdue, Saturday 2:30 p.m. http://ww .nd.edu/~observer 
_J 






