

Rush to see Rushmore 
The Trojan Horse 
Thursday
Starring Bill Murray and Jason Schwartzman 
The debate over the Knights ofColumbus' 
as men who fall in love with a teacher, 
memorial statue continues with two 
Rushmore offers complex comedy. 
conflicting letters. 
MARCH 1, 
Scene . page 14 
Viewpoint . page 11 
2001 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 98 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



ND, SMC elect class representatives in seven races 

Alumni Association honors students 
Class Elections Results 
By NICK SWEEDO 
News Writer 
Notre Dame undergrad­uate student Brett Perkins and graduate stu­dent April Langley were recently chosen as the recipients of the 2001 Alumni Association Distinguished Student awards. 
The Alumni Association annually awards two stu­dents who best exemplify the spirit of Notre Dame through community ser­vice and academic excel­lence. 
"We are blessed to have two people who exemplify many students at Notre Dame in what they do for the community, in the classroom and for fellow Notre Dame students," said Chuck Lennon, the Executive Director of the Alumni Association. "They are truly great rep­resentatives of what the Alumni Association tries to do with this award, that is, honoring two great young people." 
Perkins is a senior finance major and theolo­gy minor. In addition to his studies, he is presi­dent of the handbell choir, vice-president of Beta Gamma Sigma. a resident assistant of Keough Hall and a stu­dent coordinator of the NDE retreats. He also actively participates in the Knights of Columbus chapter, Celebration Choir and the RCIA (Right of Christian Initiation of Adults). 
Perkins said time man­agement was the key to balancing his many activi­ties. 
"I remember what my freshman chemistry teacher. Dr. Rudy Bottei, told our class. He told us to make use of 'prime­time' hours from nine to five. so I try to take advantage of that. That usually leaves the evenings open for extra­curricular activities," he said. "Throughout my hectic schedule, I always try to keep the focus on God, always remembering that there's a greater meaning in everything I do and that everything I do helps strengthen the kingdom of God." 
After  graduation,  
Perkins  will  work  in  
Chicago  for  Arthur  

Andersen as a business consultant. 
Langley is currently working on her doctoral thesis in English and has a 4.0 GPA. She has taught freshman composition at Notre Dame and has been 
see STUDENTS/page 4 
. Rossmann, Smith tickets elected; class of 2004 faces run-off election at ND 
ByJASON McFARLEY Assistanr News Editor 
Winning tickets from the classes of 2002 and 2003 notched big victories in Wednesday's class council primary while the election set up a runoff between two tickets on the 2004 ballot. 
The Peter Rossmann ticket captured 63 percent of the 2002 vote to comfortably defeat the Becky Hagelin ticket 461-252. In the 2003 race, Matt Smith's ticket carried more than 66 percent of votes on its way to an easy 629­297 win over the Son Nguyen ticket. 
In the 2004 contest, which featured seven tickets, the Keri Oxley ticket emerged the clear favorite -leading its nearest challenger by nearly 300 votes -but failed to receive a majority of the 1,140 cast ballots. The Oxley ticket's 469 votes asserted it as the top con-
see ND/page 4 
. SMC Run-off elections decide Meyer, Jablonski­Diehl to represent classes 
By KATIE MILLER New, Writer 
Run-off elections were held Wednesday for the class boards of 2002 and 2004. 
Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl and Linda Janke won 50 percent of the vote in the class of 2004 election. Kym Dunlap and Brandy Jans are the newly elected sopho­more class secretary and treasurer. 
"We have a bunch of monthly events planned to rally the sophomore class. We hope to start off with events that will help the sophomores get to know each other," said Jablonski-Diehl. 
The Brettnacher/Hall ticket received 48.8 percent of the vote; 1.2 percent of the vot­ers abstained. 
Following Monday's election, the Brettnacher/Hall ticket had led the class of 
see SMC/page 4 

STUDENT SENATE 

Brian Moscona, student body vice president elect; Brooke Norton, student body president elect and current vice president; and Trip Foley student body secretary ( I to r) sit at the Wednesday night senate meeting. 


Bookstore costs committee created 
By I.AURA ROMPF As.isrant News Ediror 
Communication between facul­ty, students and the bookstore is essential for positive changes to be made, Knott Hall senator Michael Pfaff told the senate Wednesday night. 
Pfaff. along with the Academic Affairs committee, presented a resolution regarding the forma­tion of the bookstore academic committee. 
"We want to investigate how the bookstore is run and how the bookstore can better serve the student body," Pfaff said. "Right now. there is no formal forum between the student body and the bookstore. This resolu­tion will create a forum." 
Pfaff said the new committee will be comprised of two sena­tors, a Student Union Board {SUB) member. a member of Flipside, an office of the presi­dent representative, a faculty senate member and a member 
of the bookstore's managerial staff. 
"The goal of this committee will be to serve student interests as well as the bookstore's inter­ests," Pfaff said. "We want the bookstore to be a more integral part of student academic life and student social life." 
Praff said members of SUB and Flipside were included on the committee because suggestions have been made to use the 
see SENATE/page 4 


page 2 Thursday, March I, 2001
The Observer . INSIDE 


INSIDE COLUMN 



Hanging Up 
I had a two-mi nut~ phone conversation 

tonight. Actually. when I really sit down and think about it, I've probablv had a two-minute phone conversation every day this week. Admittedly, it's hardly ample time to "reach out and I.ouch someone" -in fact. it's not even adequate time for a healthy hello and goodbye. I could justify it if my phone were broken or my bill was too high, but sadly, the reason my con­versations are so short is 
me. 
A two-minute phone con­versation is not a mortal sin; in fact, most of us have one every day. We use them to call up to friends· dorm rooms to let them know we're waiting out­side, we use them to set up times to meet in the dining hall. We use them to make appoinlmenl.5; we use them to confirm plans for Heartland and Senior Bar. 
But when that two-minute phone conversation consists of your entire relationship, it can start to feel like a mortal sin. 
Last October, the military sent my boyfriend packing to llichmond. VA-a grand total of 
708.3 miles from South Bend (driving time approximately 12 hours barring any traffic delays.) The typical US Airways flight can get me there in about five hours, at the average cost of $255.50, granted I book at least 14 days in advance. With the crippling disabilities of few free weekends and a distressed bank account, the telephone onds up making up the bulk of our communication -and our relationship. 
Essentially. our relationship has ended up completely dependent on a third party -it's not just Noreen and Mark, it's Noreen, Mark and the telephone. While l'rn gratefully endebted to this third party that keeps our relationship going, I'm beginning to resent its constraints. With two dif­ferent schedulos -his lasting during the peak day hours and mine pumping through the night -neither of us end up near the telephone often enough to make a connection. 
It usually goes something like this: I glance at the clock and realize that once my shift is over, he'sjustgetting up. 'I could call,' I think to myself, and pick up the phone as he's running out the door. As we say goodbye. there's this awkward moment where we don't know whether to say 'good morning' or 'good night' ­after all, it's different for each of us. 
Hence the two minute conversation. 
As much as I resent it. I am grateful for lhe two-minute conversation. I could write letters or pour my soul out over email, but the phone lets me hear his voice. And when you're 708.3 miles, $255.50 and 12 hours apart. every minute counts. 
They say when you get into a long-distance relationship, it's not going to be easy. They say to avoid it at all costs, that it's going to fail. I imagine the reason they warn you is because of the two-minute conversation: the frustration, the guilt and the sadness you feel when you get off the phone. 
But I'll take my two minutes any day of the week over nothing. I'd take two seconds. And I know when I have time during the day on Saturday. when neither of us are working, I'll pick up the phone and call. 
And I'll talk for two hours. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Kate Nagengast Man Narnia Kelty Hager Graphics Courtney Boyle Katie Hall Sports Production Noah Amstadter Rachael Protzman Viewpoint Lab Tech Pat Orlewski Angela Campos 
The Observer (USPS 59? 2-4000) i, published Monday rhrough Friday except during exam and v.1c:nion periods. The Observer is a member ofthe A.s.ociaml Press. All «production rights arc rcs,rvcd. 

THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Thursday  Friday  
. Performance: "Romeo  . Lecture: "Are you a per- 
and Juliet," 7: 30 p.m .,  fectionist? Learn self- 
Hesburgh Center for  acceptance," Body Image  
International Studies  Awareness Week,  
. Lecture: "Eat Right, Feel  11 a.m.. Counseling Center  
Good, Look great," Deanna  . Movie: "The Sixth  
Latson, 7 p.m., Stapleton  Sense," $2, 8 p.m.,  
Lounge, Saint Mary's  DeBartolo  

Compiled from U-Wire reports


OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Penn State president defends Sex Faire events 
HARRISBURG 

Several state representatives joined the crusade against sexually explicit student events Tuesday at Pennsylvania State University's House Appropriations Committee hearing. 
As promised, state Rep. John Lawless played a five-minute video excerpted from one made at the stu­dent-run Sex Faire earlier this month. He repeated his statements that Penn State should be punished for failing to be "moral" leaders. 
Lawmakers grilled Penn State President Graham Spanier in a four­hour session, broken only by breaks for the stenographer. Most discussion was about the appropriateness of the sexually provocative events sponsored by Womyn's Concerns. 
Spanier again apologized for com 
UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND 
Students celebrate with bonfires 
Route 1 could have just as well been Bourbon Street Tuesday night for the thousands of University of Maryland student<; who celebrated Fat Tuesday and the men's basketball team's upset of the Duke Blue Devils by making what's becoming an annual party on Fraternity Row. The absence of a Byrd Stadium goal­post couldn't. stop creative campus students from show­ing their spirit. Two soccer goals would do -along with some furniture. They commemorated the occasion with fire. documented it with countless hand-held video cam­eras and reminisced about a win that last year caused the campus to spontaneously combusL "This is my senior year, and it's my last chance to get to do this," said Shilbani Shah as she stood outside the main ring of the Fraternity Row bonfire. 'They feel powerful and they feel like rebelling right now. It's the only way they feel like they can get it out.'' At game's end, the roar began all over the campus as students poured from their dorms. Before the festivities began, "Bring out the riot gear" sounded over police radios. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeathcr'" forecast for d11y1ime conditions and high temperatures 
H  L  
Friday  ~  47  27  
Saturday  ~  40  26  
Sunday  ~40  25  
Monday  ~ ·•:•·-::  40  27  
Tuesday  q ·:· "!"  43  26  


4,~,Q_4Q.Q ~ ~ u 
S/loWars T-storms Rain Flumes Snow fee Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via Associaled PlftS Gn,phlCSN11t 

ponents of the event but said the university was committed to free speech. 
Rep. Samuel Rohrer asked Spanier if he thought the programs were "wrong" or "immoral." When Spanier refused to make a statement denounc­ing the entire Sex Faire. Lawless called him "evasive" and "Clinton­esque." 
In one volley, Lawless said he was 
Saturday 
. Performance: 

Collegiate Jazz Festival. 
7:30 and 10 p.m., Washington Hall 
. Movie: "Shanghai Triad," directed by Yimou Zhang, $2. 
7:30 p.m.. The Snite 

DARTMOUTH COLLEGE 
Boys only suspects in murders 
Authorities are not searching for any additional sus­pects in the murders of Dartmouth College professors Susanne and Half Zantop. according to sources that spoke with the Associated Press. A source familiar with the investigation told the AP yesterday that the evidence has not indicated anyone other than Hobert Tulloch, 17, and James Parker. 16, was involved in the murder. The source said although the investiga­tion continues while authorities have already arrested the two teenagers. additional arrests are not expect­ed. Authorities have released little information about the murders, but more details were expected today when a New Hampshire judge had planned to unseal portions of affidavits and search warrants. Ilowever, the Valley News reported yesterday that additional forensic evidence was strengthening the investigators' case for keeping court records sealed. The state filed an appeal Tuesday to block the unsealing. Lebanon District Court Judge Albert J. Cirone Jr. is expected to examine the state's appeal today. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon. Thursday, March 1. 
insulted by a Penn State student who made fun of his focial disfigurement in an e-mail message. Spanier respond­ed by reading an e-mail the student had sent to Spanier complaining of a threatening call from Lawless. 
The House proceedings were a con­trast to the civil Senate committee hearing Monday. which focused most­ly on how Perin State spends taxpayer money. 
As the summer approaches, the state legislature will finalize the bud­get, and Penn State will hear its final answer on appropriations f'or 2001­
2002. 
In answering the committee's questions. Spanier said the universi­ty tries to meet the right balance between community standards and free speech. 
Sunday 
. 
Mass: Misa en Espanol, L30 p.m .. Zahm Chapel 

. 
XFL Game Trip: "Chicago Enforcers vs, Las Vegas Outlaws," leaves at 


12:45 from Main Circle. $15 for ride and ticket. bus returns around 9 p.m. 
FRONTS: 
........ ......... 
WARM STATIONARYCOLD

e2001 AccuWeather, Inc. ------
Prassun: 
.

D D CTI D D D
® © ' Sunn Pt. Cloud Cloud
HI h Low Shower• R¦ln T•¦torm• FlurrlH Snow loo 
57 48 Portland 51 31 Memphis 63 44 Sacramento 65 36 Atlanta 68 54 Las V0Qas 
Baltimore 48 32 

Boston 41 21 Milwaukee 32 20 St. Louis 37 22 Chicago 28 12 New York 43 29 Tampa 78 58 Houston 77 67 Philadelphia 50 30 Washington DC 50 36 


,...._'911__...,..llllllllllliiiii5-~-...~..•--~-!llll---ll.•--•••••••-•-----.--IIIC.::::---•--••••-••••~••-••---.,---.----....-·-:------•-•...--.. 
Thursday, March 1, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Body Image Week continues with anorexia discussion 
1•.o. 
door•~,
ri~ ,.... ,t;'.¢(" 
' ·---.· -~ 
By BIRGIT HEINISCH 
News Wri1er 
Offering support to those suffering and those helping their friends through the dis­order, counselors and students joined together Wednesday evening to speak out on anorexia. The discussion is a continuation of Body Awareness Week. 
"Bottom line is that there are different ways to cope with problems. Anorexia is one maladaptive way," said Susan Albers, a counselor at the University Counseling Center. 
Anorexia is "like an ice­berg.'' said Albers, "You can see the physical binging and purging but there are many underlying symptoms that you cannot see." Physical and behavioral symptoms such as frenetic exercising and mood swings are visible, but there are many psychological symp­toms beneath. 
"Control is a big thing with eating disorders. There was a correlation between stress and eating for me." said Darcy McLaughlin. a former anorex­ic. 
Anorexia is a serious eating disorder. Every year, "10 per­cent to 20 percent of people who have anorexia will die," said Albers. 
For this reason. Albers 
stresses the importance for 
friends to step into the situa­
tion. As a friend, it is neces­
sary to be sympathetic. One 
must know "how much shame, how much pain goes along with the disorder," said Albers. 
It is important to approach your friend as soon as possi­ble. "Stop being silent," said Jessica Johnstone. a student 
There are several steps to take and certain techniques to apply. First, "structure an intervention," said Albers. 
Decide who should talk with the friend and plan for an appropriate time to meet. Also prepare by practicing how to confront your friend. This allows you to "identify rough spots and to notice how you're coming across,'' said Albers. 
When trying to address this issue with a friend, the most important thing is to not com­ment on physical appearance. Comments about being healthy or about being too thin are usually interpreted as some­thing different, Sufferers of anorexia "manipulate any­thing about appearance [as a reason] to continue the disor­der," said McLaughlin. 
"One may inadvertently rein­force the disruptive behavior [through commenting on phys­ical appearance]." said Albers. 
Instead, focus the discussion on progress in mood. A person suffering from anorexia can relate the better emotional feeling with true health and feeling good rather than with physical health and appear­ance. 
Putting the focus on positive 
traits improves self-esteem, 
which will lead to more sue­
cess with the disorder, pan­elists said. Other strategies include using "I statements." 
When discussing anorexia with a friend. it is important to list behaviors which are caus­ing concerns to those friends. 
Having resources and addi­tional help, such a counselor, a rector or parents are key elements as well. 
Commenting on an anorex­ic's_ food con~umption can lead to them becoming less open. The opposite effect is being achieved; their behavior is more secretive, panelists said. 
One should "let them eat as much as they cat," said McLaughlin. "Avoid the hover and smother method," said Albers. 
As a friend, it is good to pre­pare for many responses and to be patient. A person suffer­ing from the anorexia could admit having the disorder or become defensive and ashamed. 
It is important not to argue and instead be comforting. 
One approach is to say, 'TH approach you again because I'm concerned," said Albers. 
There is always the chance that one's suspicions are wrong, yet voicing concerns are still significant. 
"Yes, I was angry at first [at being confronted by my teacher and friends]. but now I 
appreciate  that  they  
approached  me,"  said  
McLaughlin.  

On campus. it is important to realize that we "live in a com-


Susan Albers, a counselor from the University's Counseling Center, spoke Wednesday about the Importance of friendship when dealing with anorexia. 
petitive environment," said can be won. Johnstone, There is a need to Through self-awareness and live up to others' or one's own determination, a sufferer of expectations. anorexia can "realize that 
Yet, perfection should not be anorexia is not a comfort but striven for. With help from just an escape from reality," friends battle against anorexia said McLaughlin. 
,....._..........---::.:...---....-.••••••1!:a......11111!.....-..._.~_;;,_____...___________J__..._!11£%•.llll!J:J-,;;;.;;;,.iiJll-•&•••%1•-•-•• 
page 4 The Observer. CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 1, 200 I 
SMC 
continued from page I 
2004 elections with 31.2 percent of the students vote while the Jablonski­Diehl vote followed with 
29.7 percent. 
Forty-one percent of the freshmen class voted Wednesday, 8 percent less than on Monday. 
"I was surprised at the lower numbers because the class was super excit­ed about the elections," said Nicole Prezioso, elec­tions commissioner. "At the same time, I think a lower turnout could be typical in run-off elec­tions." 
Fifty-two percent of the class of 2002 voted; 4 per­cent lower than Monday's elections. 
ND 
continued from page l 
tender heading into a run­off election Friday against the Brian Adams ticket, which garnered 172 votes Wednesday. 
"After covering student government for two years, I'm very excited now to go from a student government outsider to an insider and to serve the Class of 2002," said Laura Rompf. class vice president-elect and an Observer reporter. 
Rompf's running mates include president Rossmann, secretary Lisa Scstile and treasurer Chris McConnell. 
Rompf said her ticket plans to sponsor a confer­ence to help seniors prepare for life after graduating from Notre Dame and to next fall organize a "Senior 
0. Weekend," with activities similar to those at Freshman Orientation. 
She said in light of the 
recent deaths of three mem­
bers of the Class of 2002 to 
leukemia, the ticket is also 
planning fund-raising efforts 
for cancer charities and a 
bone marrow drive in mem­
ory of the students. 
Smith, president of the 
winning 2003 ticket, said his 
administration's top priority 
will be keeping abroad stu­
dents informed of activities 
at home. He said establish­
ing an abroad chairperson 
and a monthly newsletter 
would aid in that goal. 
"In the past, students may 

have been uninformed and 
left out of a lot of things sim­
ply because they were 
studying abroad." Smith 
said. "We want to let them 
know what's going on and 
keep them involved." 
Smith's running mates 

include vice president Karen 
Lysaght, secretary Josh 
Gentine and treasurer Nick 
Mastronardi. 
In the 2003 election, four tickets carried about 80 per­cent of the vote in the seven­way primary. The Ben Gilfillan and Brian Thomas tickets placed behind Oxley and Adams, collecting 142 and 121 voLes. respectively. Chris Iloldernir received 99 votes. Josh O'Farrcll won 83 and Dan Sushinsky earned 
Meghan Meyer and Michelle Houser took 53 percent of the vote in the run-off class of 2002 elec­tion against Erin Weldon and Mary Crawford who received 41 percent of Wednesday's vote. 
Six percent of the voters abstained. Brigid Buhrfiend and Lori Sichtermann are the newly elected senior class secretary and treasurer. 
"We plan to gel the ball rolling this year," said Meyer. "We are hoping to get events that seniors will want to be a part of; we definitely want the senior class, input." 
"We hope to have the senior board elected two weeks after spring break," said Houser. "We want to increase fun activities for the class, we have a lot of spirit." 
48 to round out the field. 
Oxley and Adams will compete in a run-off election Friday that also matches two tickets for off-campus co-presidents. Wednesday's primary resulted in a tight contest between the Liz Efta/Kelly Stocker and George Remus/Amy Sellers tickets. 
Efta and Stocker's 165 nods gave them a narrow 11-vote lead over Remus and Sellers. The slim margin prompted a recount by judi­cial council officials, who are required to recount in an election that yields less than a 25-vote margin between top vote-getting candidates. The third ticket of Sarah Schwartz and Kim Fenzl got 90 votes. 
Also on Wednesday the off-campus senator election saw Steve Reddy defeat Noel Conneely 185-130. 
Tony Wagner, judicial council president, said elec­tion turnout was decidedly mixed. 
"Turnout varied from 
dorm to dorm. We expected 
it to be up in some areas 
and down in some," Wagner 
said. 

That's despite a referen­
dum that student govern­
ment representatives were 
optimistic would spur high 
turnout. 

The Student Senate-spon­
sored referendum was a 
parietals survey that 
appeared on election ballots 
Wednesday. The ballot issue 
asked students if they were 
in favor of extending pari­
etals past midnight on week­
days and ending them 
before 10 a.m. every day. 
'Tm sure there were peo­
ple who turned out for [the 
rcferenduml. but there were 
many people who wanted to 
vote for the different 
ol1ices," Wagner said. 
The judicial council divid­
ed referendum responses by 
gender Wednesday night but 
did not tally results, Wagner 
said. 

lfe said the council would 
turn the ballots over to the 
Student Senate. 

The surveys will likely go 
to the senate's Hesidence 
Life Committee which draft­
ed the ballot issue. 

Late Wednesday night. 
members of the committee 
were unavailable for com­
ment. 
Students 
continued from page 1 
an assistant teacher for courses in Honors Shakespeare and African­American literature. 
She also has received the $15,000 American Association of University Women Dissertation Fellowship. ln the community, she is an active member of her church where she currently serves in its Marriage Ministry. She also works to increase diversi­ty on campus. 
Langley gave God credit for helping her achieve her goals. 
"With God, all things are possible. My ability to balance my busy schedule is based upon my adherence to a basic philosophy of prioritizing, which is deeply rooted in my faith and spirituality," she said. "Serving God is my first priority, after which serving my family and community is next, and then J give full and rigorous time and energy to my scholarly work and teach­ing." 
The two students were hon­ored on Feb. 15 under the rotunda of the Main Building in a celebration that included Father Edward Malloy, presi­dent of the University, and the Celebration Choir. They will receive plaques on April 27 at the annual Alumni Association meeting. 

Students can meet with facul­ty and other students,"
Senate 

Ferreira said. "One of the continued from page 1 ways in which outsiders judge 
the intellectual climate on any bookstore for more program­campus is to measure how ming events. Pfaff said mem­students in a university con­bership on the committee is sistently perform in nationally especially important for renowned contests. Our acad­Flipside. emic programs are consistent­
"Flipside has a very small ly compared to Ivy League budget and many of their schools, yet we don't match venues are off-campus," he up when it comes to student said. "We would like to help recognition in national schol­them do more on campus." arship contests." 
Pfaff said the resolution's . The senate passed a resolu­main goal is to make open tion requesting the formation communication easier. "If of an Ad Hoc Committee on there's going to be any the Workers High ts change, the change needs to Consortium (WHC). The reso• come from communication lution provides the senate between the Notre Dame stu­with an opportunity to voice dent body, the faculty and the students' opinion on whether bookstore," he said. the University should join the WRC. The committee will investigate both sides of thr.
In other senate news: 

issue and make a recommen­. O'Neill senator Hill Ferreira 
dation to the senate next
informed the student senate 

week. Father Malloy is
that starting next fall there 

expected to make a final deci•will be a scholarship office to 
sion on the matter March 8.
aid students in applying for 

. Andrew Oxenreiter was
prestigious national scholar· unanimously approved as the

ships. such as the Rhodes, 2001-2002 Student Union

Marshall and Fullbright schol­

Treasurer.
arships. The location of the . The senate approved the

office is not yet determined, nominees for the Executive

but Ferreira said a committee, 

Board Members of SUB for
including Mark Roche, dean of 2001 -2002: Paul Krivickas asthe College of Arts and Letters 

board manager, Kathleen
and Eileen Kolman, dean of Hammond as director of pro­

First Year Studies, has gramming, Jacquelyn

already begun the planning 

Gelzheiser as director of oper­
process and welcomes any 

ating, Gabriel Brownas direc­suggestions. 
tor of creativity and Melissa"It will be a place where we 
Kane as chief controller. 
can network together. 

-Commerce and Bevond e lecture Series 
http://www.nd.ec 1u/%7E:krnatta/mgt648/speakers.t m 
February 2 Khalil Matta {Director, MIS Program, University of Notre Dame) "Overview of the Lecture Series" 
February 9 Allen Hammond {CIO and Senior Scientist, World Resources Institute) "Impact of Globalization" 
February 16 Joe McCarthy (Researcher, Accenture -Ctr. for Strategic Technology) "Awareness and Collaboration in the Workplace of the Future" 
February 23 Mike Mazarr (President, Henry L. Stimson Center) "Sociology and Psychology of People in the Electronic Workplace" 
Trme Change: 2:00pm-3:35pm in the Jordan Auditorium, MCoB 
March 2 Greg Hedges (Partner, eBusiness Risk Consulting, Arthur Andersen "Privacy Concerns In the Electronic Age" 
March 23 Bob Reilly (President, DHR International) "New Age Leadership Skills" 
March 30 Gary Reiner (Senior VP and CIO, General Electric) "Technology and E-commerce Organizations: Future Directions" 
April 6 Bob Buckman (Ret. Board Chairman and President, Buckman Labs) "Knowledge Management In the New Millennium" 
April 20 Dan Hesse (Chairman, President, CEO, Terabeam Networks) "Wireless and Optical Technologies and their Implications" 
Co-sponsored by the Mendoza College of Business & the PricewaterhouseCoopers 

UnlYmllty of Notre Dame 
are welcome to attend 

Mendoza College ofBusiness 
Use FREE Observer Online Classifieds! observer.nd.edu 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Cops arrest shooting suspect: 
Mexico City authorities said Wednesday they have arrested a suspect in the shooting death of Cuban official Boris Valdez Lopez. The district attorney's office accused Rafael Hernandez Espinosa, 21, in the Feb. 15, carjacking attempt near the Cuban Embassy. It also said he had confessed to taking part. Police charge that Hernandez was one of three people who ambushed the car. 
Pilgrims make journey to Mecca: 
Hundreds of thousands of pilgrims from around the world made their way toward the holy city of Mecca Wednesday ahead of the ha.ii, or annual Muslim pilgrimage. To prepare for the pilgrims' arrival and their four-day stay in Mecca, Saudi Arabia has mobilized all its facilities. dispatching security forces, med­ical teams and guides. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Ashcroft meets with lawmakers: 
One day after President Bush told him to bring an end to racial profiling by police, Attorney General John Ashcroft met Wednesday with black lawmakers who had opposed him as head of the Justice Department. "It was a frank and candid exchange," Ashcroft said afterward. Racial profiling is the practice by police of con­sidering a person's race or ethnicity in detain­ing suspects or making traffic stops. 
Panel unhappy with FBI answers: 
Confronting the FBI director about an agent accused of spying for Moscow for 15 years, the Senate Intelligence Committee chairman said Wednesday his panel remained unsatisfied v.ith explanations of a "very, very grave" espionage case. An assessment will show "a lot of damage" by accused spy Robert Philip Hanssen. a 25­year F131 counterintelligence agent, said the chairman, Sen. Richard Shelby, R-Ala. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
South Bend resident gets permit to leave Israel: A naturalized U.S. citizen who was not allowed to leave the West Bank 10 days ago as planned because she was born there was granted a transit permit from Israel on Wednesday. Katerina Araman could not be reached for comment immediately. Her hus­band, Joseph Araman, said he was anxious for his wife and 4-year-old daughter, Sarah, to return home. "I will not trust it is true until Lhey land in Chicago," he said. "Because they can change their tune any time they want to. I don't trust them." 
Market Watch.2/28.,,;> .•:-.~--> 

Dow 


]ONES  10,495.28  -141.60  
Up: 1,388  Same: 222  ~1: ~·  Composite Volume: NIA  
AMEX:  907,72  
Nasdaq:  2,151.83  -55.99  
NYSE:  


S&P 500: 1,239.94 -18.00 TOP5VOLUMELEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  -I.JO  -0.31  23.69  
JDS UNIPHASE 0DSU)  -J,82  -1.06  26.75  
ORACLE CORP (ORCL)  -12.39  -2.69  19.00  
SUN MICROSYSTEMS (SUNW)  ,0.32  -0.06  19.HH  
INTEL CORP (INTC)  -1.51  -0.44  28.~6  


ATION 
Thursday, March I, 2001 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES 
page 5 


down the Seattle airport, miles southwest of ings and highways to 
Associated Press 
knocked out power to Seattle, according to the protect against earth­
SEATTLE hundreds of thousands of National Earthquake quakes. 
A powerful earthquake people, cracked the dome Information Center in Still, the quake was felt rocked the Northwest on atop the state Capitol in Golden. Colo. in Vancouver and other Wednesday, shattering Olympia and briefly Experts said its depth parts of British Columbia windows, showering trapped about 30 people -in a fault about 30 and in southern Oregon, bricks onto sidewalks atop a swaying Space miles underground -300 miles away. and sending terrified Needle in Seattle. spared the Northwest a Buildings in downtown crowds running into the "Everyone was pan­major shaking. Damage Portland, 140 miles from streets of Seattle and icked," said Paulette was relatively light in the the epicenter. swayed for Portland, Ore. At least 25 DeRooy, who scrambled highly developed region nearly a half-minute and people were injured, onto a fire escape in a with more than 3 million crowds gathered on none critically. Seattle office building. residents. In recent street corners to talk 
The strongest quake to The magnitude-6.8 years, millions of dollars about the quake. hit Washington state in quake hit at 10:55 a.m. have been spent to Officials also evacuated 52 years temporarily shut and was centered 35 remodel schools, build-the city's courthouse. 
BRITAIN 
Law seeks to ban terrorism groups 
Associated Press 
LONDON 

Acting under a tough new anti-ter­rorism law, Britain on Wednesday announced plans to ban 21 radical groups, including the organization of Saudi exile Osama bin Laden. 
Many of the groups have no orga­nized presence in Britain. 
The new anti-terror measure, which took effect Feb. 19, empowers Britain to ban groups that commit violence abroad and to crack down on support­ers who channel funds and recruits to terrorist organizations. Authorities had been expected to quickly make use of the new provisions. 
The bans still need the approval of lawmakers. 
The government's proposed list includes Greece's November 17, which has killed 22 people since 1975, target­ing intelligence officials and diplomats; bin Laden's organization. al-Qaeda, which has been linked to a range of terror attacks including the 1998 bombings of two U.S. embassies in east Africa; and Abu Nida!, a group blamed for killing more than 300 people since 1973. 
It also lists several groups seeking independent homelands, including ETA, which has killed 800 people in its 32-year quest for a Basque homeland independent from Spain; the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam of Sri Lanka; and the Kurdistan Workers' Party in Turkey. 
Also on the list are the Mujahedeen Khalq, which seeks to overthrow Iran's Islamic government. 
page 6 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 1, 200 I 
Welsh hosts Johnson to speak on wo01en, cultural prayer 



By LAUREN BECK 
News Writer 
Christian women pray much differently than do men. based on their upbringing and soci­c tal roles, according to Chandra Johnson. 
Johnson, assistant to the University president, led a dis­cussion on Wednesday night in Welsh Family Hall entitled "The Many Voices of Prayer: A Cultural 
"Steeped within our being that voice is there and is audi­ble regardless of the predica­ment. Don't discount that sense of right. that peaceful­ness, that well spring of grace inside of you," said Johnson. 
She then compared God to an inner strength she encounters even in the midst of pain and suffering. 
Johnson specifically cited the stories of Hagar and Mary as examples of women in the 
Bible interact­
Experience." Johnson  "Steeped within our  ing with God. "These two  
spoke to the all-female audience about the  being the voice is there and is audible regardless ofthe predicament . .,  w o m e n prayed as a result of a life change, as a  
experiences  result  of  
of women in Scripture and the ways women today  Chandra Johnson assistant to the University president  wanting to find God," she said. B o t h  
can  apply  Biblical  fig- 
them in their  ures  were  

lives. faced with immense challenges 
As a woman, Johnson said but remained strong and "used she often feels "wired to take their own particular faith in a care of other people. Who, way that gives a glimpse as to though, takes care of me?" what struggles were experi­
She finds comfort through enced then and how to inter­prayer and reflection on God's pret this in the 21st century." relationship with women. Like many women in scrip­
"There is no predicament too ture, "Hagar and Mary appear difficult that God can't enter in to be subservient but allow and show us the glory inside of themselves to be empowered ourselves," she said. co-agents of faith," Johnson 
She urged women to recog­said. She views their stories as nize and take time out from "powerful depictions of two the distractions in their lives to women whose lives were interact with God on a daily changed, who were not in con­basis. trol, but who changed the 
English prof's poem to be read on radio 
for broadcast to about 280 
Special to The Observer 
noncommercial radio stations nationwide by Public Radio"Getting Through Sundays," 
International. The program
a poem by University of Notre 
featuring Gemes will be
Dame poet Sonia Gemes, will broadcast locally at 8:30 a.m.
be featured Saturday on The Saturday on WVPE-FM (88.1)
Writer's Almanac. a public 
and also can be accessed on
radio program hosted by the web at
Garrison Keillor. 
httpJ/almanac.mpr .org/ 
Produced by Minnesota Gemes is a professor ofPublic Radio. The Writer's English and the director ofAlmanac is a daily five­Notre Dame's Creative
minute program distributed Writing Program. 



Thursday, March 1, 2001 The Observer . NEWS page 7 
Notre Dame set to host two student bioethics conferences 
By HIIARY BURNS 
News Writer 
Notre Dame has the opportunity to place itself on the bioethical map this weekend by hosting two international events the third National Undergraduate Bioethics Conference and the inaugural meeting of the International Student Bioethics Initiative. 
"I hope this weekend is a unique opportunity for students from within ND and visitors to interact and discuss con­temporary bioethical issues that will be affecting our futures." said Heather Kuhlenschmidt. Kuhlenschmidt, a Notre Dame junior, is executive co-chair of the conference along with fellow classmate Mike Mann. 
There are approximately 200 people registered to participate in the confer­ence. Their home countries range from Ghana and Australia, to the United Kingdom and Canada, according to Mann. 
"We open up our campus to [all partic­ipantsj as a place for open and respectful dialogue where ideas from different cul­tures, disciplines, nationalities and reli­gions are encouraged," said Mann. 
The objectives of the conference are to 
consider the purpose of bioethics and its role in the world; to give more cohesion to a topic which is often fragmented into individual issues; to emphasize the importance of increased interdisciplinary dialogue and to raise a sense of social responsibility within students towards these issues. 
"I [also] hope this weekend will create awareness about discrimination issues and the need for equal representation, which are bioethics issues that do not normally fall under the traditional defin­ition of bioethics," said Mann 
The coordinators of this year's confer­ence were among the 300 or so. students from around the world who attended the second annual conference last year at the University of Virginia. 
Last year's experience was twofold in purpose for Kuhlenschmidt. 
"[It gave] me the opportunity to discuss the contemporary issues with students who have a broad range of educational and religious affiliations, [but it] was also a bonding experience for many of the people involved in the planning of this year's conference," said Kuhlenschmidt. 
The Second National Undergraduate Bioethics Conference was also where Mike Mann and Anne Cooper of Notre Dame, Jayme Dowdall from Boston University and Adrian Viens from the University of Toronto met and became motivated to found ISBI. 
"At the conference, it was exciting to see the enthusiasm of the students in attendance," said Cooper. "It seemed a shame to go back to our campuses and lose the enthusiasm until the next con­ference. 
"So, we began to think of a way to maintain the momentum and came up with plans to form this organization," she added. 
ISBI's intent is to be an international student organization that is unaffiliated with individual colleges and universities. It will serve to connect students across the globe in order to encourage educa­tion, communication, activism and lead­ership in the field of bioethics. 
Further information about ISBI will be revealed at its inaugural meeting follow­ing the conference's closing banquet, said Mann. 
The ISBl meeting is independent of the conference, hut it is being held at Notre Dame this weekend because it was an opportunity where students interested in bioethics would already be together, said Kuhlenschmidt. 
Many students, including the founders of ISBI, will be participating in both events. 
"I expect to participate in a great dia­logue of future leaders. Undergraduates have a lot to c.ontribute to bioethical dis­course," said Viens. "As the future physi­cians, lawyers, bioethicists and public policy makers of the first half of the 21st century, initiatives such as the Annual Undergraduate Bioethics Conference and ISBI are great opportunities for these individuals to sharpen their interest and expand their knowledge." 
This year's conference is divided into four half-day sessions -the nature of bioethics, the human genome project, care for the dying and international bioethics. 
Each of these sessions will include keynote presentations followed by break­out discussion groups where participants will choose from a variety of topics. 
The Notre Dame faculty members giv­ing keynote addresses are Father Theodore Hesburgh, University President Father Edward Malloy and John Robinson, associate professor of Law. 
Other keynote speakers include profes­sors from across the United States, Dr. Solomon Benatar from the University of Cape Town, South Africa, and Dr. C. Thomas Caskey from Merck Laboratories. 
Sources from within the University are providing the funding for the conference, according to Kuhlenschmidt. 
Space station faces budget overruns; plans less elaborate 
tion management from Johnson Space Center in Houston to NASA headquarters in Washington, and for a sustained rate of six space shuttle flights a year. NASA had been planning an annual flight rate of seven or eight, primarily to support the space station. 
"It's a call for us to be fiscally responsible," Hawes said. "But this is a far cry from any kind of a space station redesign." 
The international space sta­tion, called Alpha, is already the result of years and even decades of redesign. The first piece finally was launched in 1998 and the latest component, the U.S. Destiny laboratory, just last month. 
Astronaut James Wetherbee, commander of space shuttle Discovery's upcoming flight to the space station, said the bud­get problems are not putting a damper on the mission. But he noted how much NASA has learned -and still needs to learn -from the Russians. 
"The first time I went up and flew next to Mir, I was struck by a couple things. No. 1, how brilliant and white and perfect it looked," he said. "But more than that I thought to myself, well, here's a country that was in race with us, they didn't get to the moon ... they have much more budget problems than we have and yet they took the next step." 
Discovery is scheduled to lift off March 8 with a replacement crew for the three men who have been living on the space station since November. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
-Used Books bouaht and sold -25 Categories ofBooks -25,000 lwdt.ck and Paperback 
booksinswck -Out-of-Print search service -Appraisalt WSC and small 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunda,y 1027 E. Wayne ' · South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 

Th,'"" D,moDe,-'"'?/1~,t, ~U;f 
Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra Winter Concert 

Daniel Stowe, conductor 
Ludwig van Becth01Jm 
Pimo Concerto No.3 in C minor !I-Eun Byun, piano Symphony No.8 in F major 
~1[~::;!~:!.~~~/ Mozart 
Recitative md aria from Cosi fan tutu Paula Rae Kearney, soprano 
Thursday March r, 2.oor 8 p.m Washington Hall Free: Admission 
Far add~ianal information call 631-6201 



-lar~19-A,rilJO a b'l1 ego•r~
-Solimmionsano eltrJ .nllfU d .,. Ins ilu 111411,lmi5 -Pick ap info/ellryform ii Kilty Ball, no11 318!(milahlt10w) 
-9pu1o an ND, StLr~ mDaly rmslllds 
~pomo~ ~ Arts Collectm. For181!iafo m1Arts CeBective t 1turts.iwts.l8al.e41 
smaller and less elaborate than 
planned and with fewer people 
on board, said space station 
chief Michael Hawes. To address "this unprecedent­ed cost growth," President Bush is calling in his new budget plan 
for completing the U.S. core of the station in 2003, three years earlier than planned. 
Among the likely casualties: a propulsion module, habita­tion module and crew rescue vehicle. Both the habitation module and a crew rescue vehicle are needed in order for the space station crew to increase in size from three to seven. 
NASA is looking at various options for eventually hous­ing seven astronauts and cos­monauts, and for providing a safe escape for all seven, Hawes said Wednesday. The options, he said, must be "within the bounds of the budget dollars that we have to work with." 

The European and Japanese laboratory modules would remain on schedule for launch in 2004, Hawes said. Any fur­ther U.S. additions after that will be considered enhance­ments, and it's difficult to know when they might be made, he said. 
Hawes said the cost overruns occurred over time and, in part, were the result of equipment problems, the need to fly so many spare parts and the recent surge in trips to the space station. 
"Part of it is just the reality of moving into a flying program that's holding its schedule and is not being able to decrease staffing at the rate that was assumed in some of the budget numbers," Hawes said. 
Altogether, Bush is seeking 
$14.5 billion for NASA for the 
next fiscal year, 2 percent more 
than 2001. 
The budget proposal also calls 
for the relocation of space sta-
Associated Press 
SPACE CENTER, Houston 

Just one week before launch­ing a new space station crew, NASA managers and astronauts found themselves agonizing over the prospect of a shrunken outpost in orbit. 
NASA's space station program faces budget overruns of up to $4 billion over the next five years. As a result, the interna­tional space station may end up 
Attenfion: ND, SMC, HCC Students, Faculty, and Staff 

EARLY SIGNUPS Monday, March 5 -Friday, March 9 Cost: $12 
REGULAR SIGNUPS Monday, March 19-Wednesday, March 2E Cost: $15 
WHEN and WHERE: 11 :00-2:00 pm and 5:00-8:00 pm 1st FLOOR LAFUN BY ELEVATOR 
www.nd.edu/~bkstr/ 

Check out our sponsors! 


page 8 Thursday, March 1, 200 l 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

¦¦¦ 




laFORTUNE BAllROOM 

Joe Joy, Binningham, AL 
ACE lnlormatioli Night 
BE AN ACE TEACHER. 
ACE is a two-year post-graduate service program featuring three pillars: 
etc 

Masters Degree teacher preparation, com1nunity life, and spiritual development. 
etc 

To find out more about ACE, please stop by 109 Badin Hall or call us at 1-7052. 



--, 
Thursday, March 1, 2001 
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Another toddler found in snow 
FBI: Suspect Odeh 
Associated Press 
EAU CLAIRE, Wis. 

A 2-ycar-old boy found lying in a snowbank and not breathing remained in critical condi­tion Wednesday, while a 13-month-old Canadian girl who nearly froze to death in a similar incident over the weekend is expected to make a virtually full recovery, doctors said. 
~~s _Hynek was ho~pita!ized at the Mayo Chmc m Rochester. Mmn. He had slipped out­side in sub-zero temperatures for up to four hours Tuesday clad only in a diaper, pajamas and a sweat shirt. 
"He's better. He's awake. I wasn't too late when I found him," the boy's father Mark Hynek said. "I just keep on praying for him and hoping for the best." 
The boy wandered from his home on his par­ents' dairy farm sometime after 3 a.m. Tuesday. His father found him unconscious almost four hours later about 50 feet from the house, Eau Claire County Sheriffs Sgt. John Vogler said. 
The National Weather Service said the tem­perature that night in Eau Claire fell to 4 below zero. Vogler said he had heard that the boy's body temperature was about 65 degrees soon after he was found, but there was no immediate confirmation. 
The child had wanted to watch a video and his father told investigators he must have fall­en asleep in a chair after he started the video­tape. He awoke at 6:40 a.m., realized his son was missing and found him outside Vogler 
calls bo01b a 'blunder' 
said. ' 
In Canada, 13-month-old Erika Nordby, whose body was partially frozen and whose heart had stopped during a night outside in the col~ at Edmonton, Alberta, was playful and talkmg and had been moved out of intensive care, hospital officials said. 
Erika's plastic surgeon, Dr. Gary Lobay, said Wednesday he doesn't believe her severely frostbitten feet will have to be amputated. 
"It looks like her heel pad will survive and a good part of her foot and maybe all of it," he said. "She should be able to walk with maybe some, maybe no. or maybe minimal disability, but at least she will be able to walk on her feet." 
The girl was revived Saturday after being found frozen almost solid in the backyard of her home. She had woken up in the middle of the night and wandered outside into sub-zero temperatures. 
"l woke up and looked everywhere and she 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

A suspect in the deadly bomb­ing of the U.S. embassy in Kenya told the FBI that it was a "big mistake" because the bomb was improperly placed in a truck, killing too many civil­ians, an FBI agent testified Wednesday. 
The agent, John Anticev, told a jury in federal court in Manhattan that Mohamed Sadeek Odeh said during an interrogation that he did not know about the Aug. 7. 1998, blast in Nairobi before it hap­pened. 
"He thought 
it was a blun­
was gone." Erika's mother Leyla Nordby told 
..He didn't like that so five days
der," Anticev
CTV Newsnet. "I ran through the house, 
recalled Odeh many civilians were before the
screaming for her. and she wasn't there." 
bombings and

saying. "He killed."
The girl's heart had stopped beating for 
met an explo­

didn't like that
about two hours and her body temperature 
sives expert

so many civil­
had dropped to 60.8 degrees. Her toes were 
John Anticev who led the
ians were
frozen together, and paramedics had trouble 
terrorism cell

killed." about a suspect in U.S. embassy
getting a breathing tube into the child's throat 
there.

because her mouth was frozen shut. 
The agent bombing in Kenya 
The suspect 

vehicle should have been 
backed into the embassy rather 
than striking it head-on so the
Man prompts airport evacuation blast would not have been 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 

A man bypassed a security checkpoint and barged through an emergency door at Los Angeles International Airport on Wednesday, forcing the evacuation of three United Airlines terminals for nearly two hours. 
United spokesman Alan Wayne estimated about 1,800 travelers were affected, with 20 or more flights delayed. The airline said 10 other flights were canceled either because of the security breach or the earthquake in the Northwest. 
The passenger. identified as Albert Joseph Bryla, 22, of St. Augustine, Fla., was arrested for misdemeanor trespassing when he reached his depar­ture gate. He posted $500 bail late Wednesday. 
Bryla couldn't immediately be located for comment Wednesday, but his father said from Florida that his son told him the incident was a misunderstanding. 
"He took a wrong turn in the airport," Bryla's father, Albert Bryla Sr.. said from his St. Augustine, Fla., home. "It's a misunderstanding that got way out of hand. I think some­one out there really overreact­ed." 


said Odeh told him the bomb 
bin Laden's al-Qaeda organiza­tion in Afghanistan who told him "that all of the people have been evacuated,'' Anticev said. 
"We're expecting a retaliation by the U.S. Army. We're expect­ing their warplanes to start hit­ting us and missile attacks," the agent said Odeh recalled the man saying without elabora­tion. 
Odeh said the men had ordered him to flee the country in the first week of August and had given him a razor to shave his beard so that he would not seem Muslim when he traveled. 
The agent said Odeh revealed after his arrest that he used a 
false passport 
to enter Kenya 
agent said Odeh admitted during an interview that spanned 12 days in August 1998 that he spent the days before the blast with men he believed car­ried out the attacks. 
He recalled one of them telling him a day before the bombing that he had just spoken to members of 
::. 


LA~T CHANC~, ONLY ArEW lEIT! ~~AC~ illftLmG FA~T}JfLY TODAY TO GET nmB~HELECTION or 1-BEDROOMs AND , 
CLOS~THOllSINGTOCAIU~ 
~TLE CREnK MARTMENf~ 



described how 

he was recruit­ed by al-Qaeda after following an Islamic scholar's advice to help Muslim rebels fight the Soviet Union in Afghanistan, where he was trained in explo­sives, the agent said. 
In his cross-examination of Anticev, Odeh's attorney Anthony Ricco questioned the agent about whether Odeh had admitted to being directly involved. 
"He never said to you that he was responsible because this was something that he did, isn't that correct?" he asked. 
"Correct," Anticev said. 
"He felt morally responsible because he was associated with and a member of al-Qaeda, isn't that correct?" Ricco added. 
"In that context. yes," the 
agent said. 
If convicted of conspiracy, 
Odeh and Wadih El-.Hage, 40, 
could get life terms; Mohamed 
Rashed Daoud Al-'Owhali, 24, 
and Khalfan Khamis Mohamed, 
27, could face the death penalty 
if found guilty of murder con­
spiracy. 
directed toward other buildings and scores of civilians. 
Prosecutors allege Odeh, 35, and his co-defendants followed alleged terrorist mastermind Osama bin Laden's orders to bomb that embassy and the one in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, the same day as part of a holy war against Americans. The explo­sions killed 224 people, includ­ing 12 Americans. 
On Tuesday, Anticev testified that Odeh had in 1992 "pledged allegiance to Osama bin Laden and would follow his orders." 
On Wednesday, the 

iBEDROOMTOIHOMES fOR TIIB 1001,lOOl ACEDEMlC YEAR,, CAlt in-Ill~fOR rURiHER DtiAILSl. 

,­
. 


page 10 The Observe,r . NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, March 1, 200 I 
U.S. reports record flight delays 
. Airlines blame delays on too few runways and air traffic issues 
As.ociatcd Press 
WASfllNGTON 

If your plane arrived late last December, you had plen­ty of company. More flights than ever before were delayed or canceled that month, the government says. 
A Transportation Department report released Wednesday said 178,707 flights by the 10 largest air carriers were either late or canceled in December. 
Although flights in the win­ter are prone to delays because of poor weather, never before had.so many flights failed to arrive on time in any month in the 13 years for which figures are available, the report said. 
The air carriers scheduled 475,398 flights in December, 
• 

meaning 37 percent of flights than a quarter of all fights did not reach their destina­were delayed, canceled or tion on time. diverted last year, affecting 
That was up from 22 per­about 163 million passen­cent of flights delayed or gers. canceled in the same month The report says airlines in 1999. should do more to "reduce 
The airline ind us try has over-scheduling, the number 
blamed delays  of chronically  
on  too  few  late  or  can­ 
runways  and  "Everybody's  celed flights,  
an air traffic control system  disillusioned about  and amount  the of  
unable to cope  the airlines."  checked bag­ 
with  an  ever­ gage that does  
increasing number of  Ernest Holllngs  not show up with the pas­ 
flights  and  senator  senger  upon  

passengers. 

The number of passengers flying on U.S. airlines rose to 665 million in 2000 from 240 million in 1977, according to the Air Transport Association, trade group for air carriers. The Federal Aviation Administration predicts the number will increase to 900 million by 2009. 
Transportation Department inspector general Kenneth Mead has reported that more arrival." 
Several law­makers have introduced leg­islation designed to improve service and the Senate Commerce Committee already has held a hearing on the issue. 
"Everybody's disillusioned about the airlines," said Sen. Ernest Hollings. D-S.D., the committee's top Democrat. 
Consumer complaints are up, too, rising 16 percent last year. 

Florida drops wiretap charge versus teen 
Associated Press 
PENSACO!A, Fla. 

Wiretapping charges were dropped Wednesday against a high school student who taped a chemistry lecture without the teacher's consent. 
Prosecutor John Molchan said the wiretapping law applies only when the person being tape-recorded has a reasonable expectation of pri­vacy -and that was not the case in a classroom of 30 stu­dents. 
"The young lady was record­ing a lecture, trying to assist her in learning at that particu­lar time. I'm not sure that's an appropriate forum for prose­cution," the prosecutor said. 
Asher Zaslaw, 17, a varsity weightlifter, said she recorded the October lecture at Navarre High School because she was having difficulty in the class and wanted to maintain her 
3.89 grade-point average. Teacher Shelaine Goss filed a 
complaint. and the state brought charges Feb. 5. 
Calls to the teacher's home were not immediately returned on Wednesday. 
Principal Louise Driggers said taping in the classroom is against school policy. She said the rule is intended to prevent students from listening to tapes or CDs in class. 
Zaslaw would have faced penalties including community service if convicted. 
"The toll it's taken on her up to this point is a shame," said Asher's father, Jay Zaslaw. "That's not the kind of thing that kids on the right track should be subjected to." 
Barbara Peterson, executive director of' the rirst Amendment Foundation in Tallahassee, said the wiretap law was never intended for classroom lectures. 
"There's no expectation of privacy in a classroom," Peterson said. "It kind of stuns me." 
Karen Buranskas, eeffo Mar;a SfaYe;n, p;ano 

Sm,dag, March 4, ZOO 1 Zpm, Annenherr Aad•faMum Sn•fe Museum of ,rf 
T,ckefs r-43qu1red: $3 sfuc!..,fs • $6 ,.,,;or cHt,ens 
$8 ,.D/5MC emplogees • $10 genoroladm;••;.,, '1'1ekefgaveHel,le of /he r_.,e.,.fu,,e Box Offfoe, ( 2191 6.3 ,-8128 
F'or more ,,..formBHan, p1eau caff <119) 03\-0201, emaH CGl'l9oera9"d.edu,.,,. .,;.,;f w~,n,,..,,d.~u/~cMqoera 

One Day Table Tennis 
March 3, 2001 11:00am 


Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 
Sign up ,it R.cSports Dtadline for reptration uThursday, MArch I at 12pm. 
For more information, J:!etUe c1tll l ~6100
~-­

RETIREMENT INSURANCE MUTUAL FUNDS TRUST SERVICES TUITION FINANCING 
Attention: New faculty members and staff 
Unsure about your retirement choices? Discover the c~!~0:!a,ur ~ l 
consultatior;j 

TIAA-CREF Advantage. 
If you're a new faculty member or staff employee and not sure about your retirement plan choices, just contact TIAA-CREF. 
THE TIAA-CREF 
We're the financial organization that's been dedicated for over 80 years to helping people in 
ADVANTAGE education and research reach their financial goals. Find out for yourself how TIAA-CREF provides: 
Investment Expertise 
Low Expenses
• Easy diversification among arange of expertly 
managed funds 

Customized
• A solid history of performance and exceptional persona Iservice 
Payment Options 
• 
A strong commitment to low expenses 

• 
Plus, a full range of flexible retirement income 


Expert Guidance 
options 

So call us for a free information package or just talk to one of your colleagues. You'll find that choosing your retirement plan provider is simple when you go with the leader: TIAA-CREF. 
Ensuring the future 
1.800.842.2776 
for those who shape it.'M 
www.tiaa-cref.org 
For more complete information on our securities products, call 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5509, for prospectuses. Read them carefully before you invest. • TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. and Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc. distribute securities products. 
• Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association (TIAA), New York, NY and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co., New York, NY issue insurance and annuities.• TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services.• Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are not bank guaranteed.@ 2001 Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association-College Retirement Equities Fund, New York, NY 01/04 



....,____________________~-----_.,,,_____..______ ...... -----------,.-----~----_,i---------111111 
Thursday, March l, 2001 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page l l 
Investigators review library donor list 
. Clinton's pardons called 'accident waiting to happen'by former pardon attorney 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Congressional investigators hunting for evi­dence of a pardons-for-dollars scheme at the Clinton White House got their first look on Wednesday at a list of 150 top donors to his presidential library project. 
They looked at the list for about 45 minutes, but lawyers for the House Government Reform Committee would not disclose information about the contributors, or say how many of the names would prompt further investigation. All 150 people and organizations on the list contributed more than $5,000. 
The William J. Clinton Foundation, which is raising money for the library to be built in Little Rock, Ark., initially resisted giving the donor list to the committee. The commission chairman, Rep. Dan Burton, R-Ind., then threatened to find foundation director Skip Rutherford in contempt of Congress. 
But after several days of ne.gotiations, the foundation and committee agreed on a way for top members of the committee to review the donor list, while protecting the privacy of donors not relevant to the probe. 
"We have worked out an agreement, and Mr. Rutherford will not be required to testify" on Thursday, Burton said. "We think we'll have all the information we want by Friday, specific contributors. the amount and the dates. We've excused some of them because we don't think the information is necessary at this time." 
Among other things, the committee wants to know whether Clinton's decision to pardon fugitive Marc Rich was influenced by contribu­tions to the library. Rich, a billionaire. has lived in Switzerland since just before he was indicted in 1983 on charges of tax evasion, fraud and making illegal oil deals with Iran. 
His ex-wife, songwriter Denise Rich, con­tributed $450,000 to the foundation, $1.1 mil­lion to the Democratic Party and at least $109,000 to Hillary Rodham Clinton's bid for the Senate. Denise Rich and her friend, Beth Dozoretz, a former finance chairman for the Democratic National Committee who pledged to raise $1 million for the library project, have both refused to testify before the committee. 
The committee was forcing Dozoretz to attend Thursday's hearing to publicly refuse to testify. 
While Rutherford is no longer required to testify, the committee expected to hear from other witnesses, including John Podesta, Clinton's former chief of staff; Beth Nolan, for­mer White House counsel: Bruce Lindsey, for­mer aide and longtime Clinton confidant; and Lewis Libby, a lawyer who is chief of staff for Vice President Dick Cheney and once repre­sented Rich. 
On Wednesday, the House Judiciary Committee held a hearing on the pardon pow­ers of the president and whether the clemency process needs to be improved. 
Margaret Colgate Love, who served as par­don attorney at the Justice Department from 1990 to 1997, told the committee that from the beginning of his presidency, Clinton moved to take away the agency's traditional role of being the first to review pardon requests. 
"The final Clinton pardons were an accident waiting to happen," she said. 
Traditionally, presidents let the Justice Department take the first look at clemency requests. but Clinton's White House answered pardon inquiries, and made it known that Justice officials would be among many people who would advise Clinton on the requests, she said. 
"The Clinton administration's shortsighted and ill-advised decision to abandon the long­standing regular system of Justice Department review led directly to the reported free-for-all at the end of his term and the resultant appearance of cronyism and influence-ped­
dling," Love asserted. 

>> SOU'" Bt;.ND1S BIGOt;.g-T PAR,TYcc 
222 S. MICHIGAN•SOUTH BEND•219.234.5200 
s1 COVER {WITH COLLEGE ID, MUST BE 21) AND LOTS OF OTHER STUFF FOR A BUCK, TOO. CAl.1 THE HEARTlAND CONCERT & MNT UNE 2l9.25l.2568•MORI PIClURES@WWW.HQRIL\NDSOUl'HBEND.COM 
escape the 
House Republicans expand Bush tax cuts 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

House Republicans said Tuesday they will expand President Bush's proposed across-the-board tax cuts and speed the bill to passage by tho end of next week. 
A day after Bush outlined his plans before Congress, Rep. Bill Thomas, the chief House tax writer, offered legislation that would accelerate a cut in the lowest tax rate ahead of the president's timetable and make it retroactive to Jan. 1. 
Thomas, R-Calif., said the Ways and Means Committee that he leads would meet Thursday to approve the bill, setting the stage for an early triumph for Bush -and a quick clash with Democrats who oppose GOP proposals as too costly. Thomas said the measure would cost $960 bil­lion over the next decade, and other elements of Bush's $1.6 trillion tax cut would come later. 
In unusually sharp com­ments, Speaker Dennis Hastert accused Democrats of trying to thwart swift action to boost the economy, in hopes of a reces­sion that would damage Republicans politically. Hastert, R-lll., said the bill would be on the House floor next week. 
"Obviously there are some on the other side of the aisle that don't want us to have success; they would like to see us go into recession," he said. 
Responding soon after, Democratic leader Dick Gephardt said, "I hope he dido't mean that, because how could anyone want to visit on the American people, especial­ly poor people, what a reces­sion and what a slowdown really means?" 
Gephardt, D-Mo., said that with his tax cuts, Bush was "gambling our healthy econo­my, the future of Medicare and Social Security and our chil­dren's education on budget predictions that are no more reliable than a weather fore­cast." 
While Hastert and Thomas cited the weakening economy for their decision to move quickly, Republicans acknowl­edged that no legislation is likely to reach Bush's desk for weeks if not months. Democrats can delay action in the Senate until Congress has approved an overall budget ­unlikely until April at the earli­est 
The maneuvering unfolded as the White House released fresh details of Bush's overall budget, including his recom­mended $1.6 trillion in tax cuts over the next decade. 
The costliest portion is the rate cuts, which would cost more than $810 billion. Phasing out the estate tax would cost $266 billion; an increase in the child tax credit $192 billion and a reduction in the so-called marriage penalty another $112 billion. 
Give a cold shoulder to your "usual" night out & warm-up your winter with a sizzling taste of summer: a tender filet (13.99), t-bone (17.99) or our specially, l 2oz. of USDA prime New York strip (14.95). Lighter options, tool 
fRIDAIJS 
All-You-Can-Eat Fish Fry
lake Perch, fries & coleslaw, 8. 99 
now o,,n fOR LAT( nl6HT DIDID6 fRIDAIJ &SATURDAIJ 
222 S MICHIGAN, SOUTH BEND 219-234-5200 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 
Thursday, March 1, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
l'.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Somh Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Tim Lane 
NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Mattingly Vll:.WP0INT EDITOR: Lila Haughey SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smith SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: Elizabeth Lang 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Bob Woods GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGlR/GENERAL INF0........•.....631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING...................... , .............. 631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................ 631•4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT, ME.. ..................631-454 l BUSINESS OFFICE........................................ 631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu Ylt.WPOINT.................................................631-,303 observer. viewpoint. I@nd .cdu SPORTS........................................................ 631-4543 obscrver.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE......................................................... 631-4540 obscrver.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's .... .........................................631-4324 
ob,ervcr.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................ 631-8767 SY,'TEMSfWEB Am,UNISTRATORS................. 631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at bttp:llobsrrver.nd.rdu for daily updates ofcampus news, spores, feacures and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-m-the 
movies/music for 

minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 

advertise for policies 
onlinc fuatures for spe­

and rates of prim ads 
cial campus coverage 

archives to search for 
about The Observer 

articles published after 
to meet the editors and 

August l999 
s~.uf 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily ncewspaper published in print and online by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right co refuse advertisemenlS based on content. 
The ncews is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assisram Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, lectcrs and columns present the views of the authors and noc necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Q=tiom rq,arding Oburverpo/icier ,bou/d be dim:t­,dlo Editor in Ch~fMike Connolly. 
GUEST COLUMN 

Agent must pay for greediness 
MINNEAPOLIS, Minn. 
The term "double agent" is crucial to almost every spy movie. Such a free­roaming character can implement the story's twists and turns and keep the audience on the edge of their seats. They also guarantee slower people, such Chris Schafer as myself, will be completely lost once the picture is more Minnesota than 15 minutes Dailyold. 
While James Bond and Austin Powers are entertaining and even funny to watch, there is nothing amusing about the idea of a real-life dou­ble agent effectively working to jeopar­dize world security. Double agents are individuals who work for government intelligence in their native country while selling secrets to foreign countries. Persons of the aforementioned descrip­tion are like David Arquette films: You do your best to prevent them from appear­ing, but somehow they still turn up. 
Such is the case with FBI agent Robert Hanssen, arrested last week on counts of espionage and treason. Mr. Hanssen is accused of selling government secrets to the Russians for the past 15 years. Well, on second thought, when authorities are able to obtain past phone messages and confiscate a garbage bag full of U.S. secrets bound for the East, the term accused is really just a formality, isn't it? 
Over the past 15 years, Hanssen doled out numerous tidbits of information involving American secrets and policies to the Russians. Included in this overseas swap meet were dozens of classified doc­uments and electronic surveillance and monitoring techniques that included "an entire technical program of enormous value, expense and importance." Naturally the feds won't go into great detail as to the specifics of the damage. It's safe to say more eyes have seen the documents in question than were sup­posed to anyway. But it is known Robert Hanssen was integral in supplying Russians certain information pertaining 
to those who play on both sides ofthe 
secret agent fence. 
Hanssen's busy lips are believed to be the key factor in the crumpled 1989 espi­onage investigation of State Department employee Felix Bloch. Law enforcement officials say Hanssen informed the Russians of his own government's devel­oping knowledge of the dealings of Bloch. The Russians were able to warn Bloch and Justice Department prosecutors were never able to find sufficient evi­dence he had passed secret documents to the KGB. 
Hanssen also informed the Russians of three of his Soviet counterparts -Boris Yuzhin, Sergey Motorin and Valeriy Martynov -three KGB agents selling preciously attained Russian information to the Americans. On Hanssen's tip, the Russians swooped in, caught and convict­ed the three. Yuzhin spent time in prison and fled to America after his release. Motorin and Martynov were convicted of espionage and executed. It was Hanssen who gave these men away and as such, is just as responsible for their deaths as the Russians are. 
This incident provides a reality check to all people about one of'thc world's necessary evils. This isn't the glamour of James Bond or "The Man from U.N.C.L.E." These people are thieves, traitors, stool pigeons and opportunists, living on the outer fringe while thousands of heroes and patriots can and do die at the leaking of their lips. But as distasteful as this entire process is, spies have been invaluable in the past, including both world wars. They are revered and reviled, depending only on which side of the fence they serve. Even in a unified world, spies would probably still exist. Right or wrong, it is human nature to harbor a certain level of distrust toward our fellow man. 
So how much does it cost to buy a man's integrity or his neighbor's securi­ty? According to sources, Hanssen received $1.4 million over 15 years for being such a great little snitch. The vast majority of this ill-gotten bounty, some $800,000, was stored for him in an over­seas account; but he also took payments, $650,000 dollars, in the form of cash and diamonds. The money was split because Hanssen feared large cash intakes would make him look like a drug dealer. 
This money is little more than icing on the cake for an individual who garnered more than $100,000 a year in base salary and lived in a $300,000 house in Vienna. Thus, we arc left to question thc motivation of an individual to sell out his country for a little more money on the pile and enough inventory to open his own Pawn America. 
Hanssen appears to have a particular disdain for America. In written messages to his cohorts across the ocean. Hanssen referred to the United States as, "a pow­erfully built but retarded child, potential­ly dangerous, but young, immature and easily manipulated." ViewpoinL,; such as the aforementioned are disturbing no matter who utters them. but especially when they come from an individual in a position such as Hanssen 's, who has the capacity to do great damage to the coun­try itself. 
In politically correct terminology. Hanssen's loose lips have jeopardized American security, which translates into your and my security. Captured traitors such as llanssen deserve to be dealt with in the harshest manner possible. In a let­ter to his Russian cohorts. Hanssen said, "One might propose that I am either insanely brave or quite insane. I'd answer neither. I'd say, insanely loyal." Hanssen is loyal only to himself and the almighty dollar. It is my hope the American government sees him as insanely expendable. 
This article is reprinted courtesy of U­Wire. It first appeared in the Minnesota Daily on February 28. 2001. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
DILBERT 
MANAGEMENT TRAINING 
a

--------------0 E 
@)• 
WHAT WOULD YOU 
.a ~ 
DO IF YOU MADE A 
HUGE, INCREDIBLY 
i 
5TUPID MI5TAKE? 

SCOTT ADAMS 

I WOULD TRY TO LEARN FROM IT. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"You can fool too many of the people too much ofthe time. " 
James Thurber author 

IC.A £4 52 52 ll z. a cu ..SL .w ~­
VIEWPOINT 
OTHE 

Thursday, March 1, 200 I BSERVER page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Debating a different perspective of the statue 
,-r-:~"'"'"-;,-·· ..:.r . 
~ 
ft,',· ,.r J ·;/-• , 
;.'!f/.. ·: ,'·/ ·; 
,,.._ ·11 ·,, I 
• 
1¥~-l ,:J,~;~~
'I' .• • fJil: 
. · _. / .f
'•/ ' ­
.):/' 
, 
•:·) 1, , 
·, ,if-'. 1 , . 1,,,..• l'• . 
···1/"/lJ, ,f/!,. 
•//:' /: ,P,
/;/.:·,:;:­
ii• i/.'\ · 
. Ii' 
·.e •' 
;::;~(1?1~",:7 .·•.. . . .,~~~iifi§Ilt~Kt,::::­
l~ji'>:,.>t,.,',-•:·\:/: ;1}~:•~'.:: --~-~;,·h~::i~f::/,!r[f!,:!;;:;,, 
on Babe the Pig as a mascot was 
.. ,. . ... ;\ . •':,. .
'I,.· t_, J ,,z /',·' :,,,, '· ·.
,;:,,,}/;•;'r\(.';;,):-,·,.-,',
•.••.,·.-·,. ,,.... ,
):.!-!:_,;.. :. '1'\;;r· · 
l '\,• ,..,,. l ..J:' •
l,t,,.J;f"... :1.~ :? J~ { ·" ' 
. '" x,-f/,'t,_J ! ,:,
J;.;-·:.-..,1···· 
; 

Pigs feel the pain too 
Men of O'Neill hall, the women of Breen-Phillips understand your frustration with political 

correctness on this campus. ., ,. However, if you think l,iving in J.,1.1;1 O'Neill is tough, try bemg a
,·::;-_.;;_.,. IBabe 
'.{f,f{/. As ~f this year, our rectress !,,:·:,f'.;,.-1 has forbidden us to use a pig in·'.) Iany design for dorm apparel.
:'!:: ·. '· This was quite a surprise to us, ·.i" · .•, seeing as our mascot is a pig. In ' · · ; fact, last year, when we voted to 
· change our mascot to the Babes, 
•'. 1 there was a stipulation in place. 
,.'.. ,. ; That stipulation was we make sure our new mascot be associ­ated with Babe the Pig, in order to avoid objectifying women. 
The reason behind being unable to represent a pig on 

to embrace the campus-wide joke of Breen-Phillips as a fat dorm. Although this joke may not be politically correct, every­one knows it is a joke and noth­ing more. To deny us the repre­sentation of our mascot on our dorm shirts with such a reason as this, seems to me to be mak­ing too much of the situation. It seems to me the equivalent would be something like Carroll Hall being forbidden to depict mice or other vermin on any­thing for their dorm because mice are viewed in a negative light. Or that Lewis can't put chickens on their shirts because it could possibly be construed to mean the women of Lewis are cowardly. 
Though there are residents in Breen-Phillips who do not like the Babe mascot, I have noticed it's more for reasons such as not liking pigs, thinking Babe the Pig an unfit mascot, or simply having an affinity for the old Banshees (ahem, Breen-Phillips football). If there are residents of Breen-Phillips who are uncomfortable with the inter­pretation that pigs convey a neg­ative body image, why do we have this mascot? 
Of course dorm T-shirts are trivial, but many 1nore impor­tant things at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's arc also subject to the atmosphere of extreme political correctness. As Joe Muto pointed out in his Feb. 27 letter, the Vagina Monologues were silenced, but let us not for­get the controversy over the Keenan Revue, which might argµably be the biggest dorm­sponsored event at Notre Dame. 
Tessa Sainz sophomore Breen-Phillips February 28, 200 l 

Memorial gives support, not condemnation 
I would like to offer an alternate perspective in the discussion of the memorial to victims of abortion. Regardless of where one stands on the issue of legal­ized abortion, memorials such as this one ought to be seen not as a judgement upon women, but a sup­port to women experiencing the artcrmath of what Jocelyn Szczepaniak-Gillece calls a "violating and shattering experience." 
I became acutely aware of the truth of her description while working in crisis pregnancy and post-abortion counseling for a secular non-profit organization. A young woman who was having diffi­culty coping with her abortion contacted me. Her family and her church were pro-choice; they had supported her decision, yet she suffered tremendous­ly. 
After talking at some length with her, we decided to go together to visit a memorial similar to the one on this campus. She wept. She prayed. She grieved the loss of her child. She was grateful for the gift of the memorial placed by people whom she would never meet. They gave her what no one in her pro­choice circle had been able to give: a recognition of her pain. 
If it is true that there are, "many, many women 
on campus who have had abortions," then it is equal­
ly as likely that there are many. many women on 
campus who suffer. Szczepaniak-Gillece pleads, "If 
you have any humanity whatsoever, stop victimizing 
them." 
I agree; we know that many women experience 
abortion as a violating and shattering experience; let 
us not force them to suffer alone by our silence. Let 
us welcome them to grieve openly for the loss of 
their children. 
Salvatrice Murphy 
graduate student off-campus February 27, 200 I 

Each person makes their own choice 
I did not read the article, "Remove the Trojan Horse," freedom ofreligious persecution so how can we now turn and this letter will not in any way be a defense of that let-around and persecute those who do not go along with ter. My problem lies in the classification set forth by the our religion. morally upstanding member of the Knights of Columbus. Somehow the Knight went on to say that it was. "... not In his judgement placed upon others, he deemed any-a theological dictate, it is a premise of philosophy. We one who considered themselves to be pro-choice must do good and avoid evil." ignorant and immoral. He also gave a ridiculous-Somehow, without using theological principles, Iy biased description of what abortion coun-~,. you have decided what is good and what is evil. selors do for women suffering with the decision \"" The fact that you say it is not theological is ridicu­of abortion. In writing this letter I accept the "-.''-..__ ' lous. Every argument that arises based on abor­fact that I will offend the majority or our "'-':--::-_~ lion comes down to religion. And based on ultra-conservative campus. However, before one's religion (or lack there oO they must you judge me as Godless and immoral, decide individually what is right for them. This please read what it is that I have to say. docs not make them ignorant or immoral, it 
Throughout my life I considered myself makes them different. The tinal statement of pro-life. I based this on the belief that if the letter definitely shows.that the argu­my girlfriend, daughter (ifl had one), ments are set up on a philosophical basis, good friend or any other close female "Pray until your hearts are converted," came to me asking my opinion as to An even larger problem with the Knight's whether they should have an abortion, I argument lies in his gross misrepresenta­would vote with a resounding no. I tion of an abortion counselor's role in an thought this was enough to place me in {.i,;/ ,· abortion. Abortion counselors stress the the pro-life column. , 1_ 11_ finality of the decision that women make 
However, my views changed when two when they choose abortion. They empha­close friends of mine came up against / size the alternatives there are to the abor­the difficult decision of abortion. They tion. In fact, they also advise on the diffi­were both high school seniors at the .' l~ culties and problems that arise with an time and for different reasons they both f ,., ,, .1~ abortion, not with a child. Abortion is pos­decided to go forward with the abortion. ' /ltt,t;,{', sibly the toughest decision and process that At the time I advised both of them to _:J/Ji'1/· a human can go through and to take a have the children and put them up for ;'_)," ··.: . ' · counselor's job and trivialize it saying they adoption. They both decided this was not f" simply," ... find out what is driving the in their best interest. Through these two woman to abort, and they magnify it ...," is friends, I realized that I truly was not pro-an ignorant statement. life. I may have disagreed with their deci-. I just want to reiterate that I am not sions, but at the same time I realized it , .,,, . ,, , , y attempting to say people who are pro-life are was their-decision. It was not mine, it was !!.1J./ ._. :fJ f \l_ ignorant. I understand the urge to preserve not ~ member of t~e I_<nights _of Columbus ',s?l[ftif',_.r:-,1 1 }/ life. Ijust think that the judgements passed by and It was not Gods, It was smgularly each ·:J · . \I the member of the Knights of Columbus are girl's. How can I or any~ne_else tell a female ;r,/l .· _. · / unfair. Saying that those who feel differently that she must keep a child m her body that at tdJ fl..·r.:,:~); 1/ than you are ignorant merely shows that you ~nytime could kill he_r. That in my opinion is ')"f'.:j/,f/4//,1~ ~ cannot handle intelligent dialogue in which one's immoral. I have no nght to tell anyone what /!ls /J',~J,J1 i) views are not like yours. they are allowed to do with their bodies. ·if;{/f'.'./,;:; ~ 
Corey TimlinWhether we as a university like it or not, our ·'·'tt//), 

sophomore

morals are not the morals of our society. Does this ' 1·! ;;--·· 
O'Neill Hall

make our society ignorant or immoral as our holy 
February 27, 200 I

Knight of Columbus would have us believe? No it does not. It means that his entire argument is based around religion, an argum[lnt that has no true standing in our society. A large part of our nation is based around the 

MOVIE REVIEW 
Elvis has left the cineplex 

perhaps Hollywood has a mar­Kurt Russell plays Michael, an Cybil (Courtney Cox Arquette}. the himself shot and killed. The
By JUDE SEYMOUR 
keter's dream. ex-con turned Elvis impersonator. SirP-n that seduces Michael and movie confuses the viewer in 
Sccenc, Movie Critic 
Thti finished product, however, lie teams with his "brother," (this joins him on the road trip. It is deciding which was more unreal­is an entangled mess of bad edit­is one of the movie's many ambi­probably the movie's best contin­istic: a man worth "two or three "3,000 Miles to Graceland" is ing. uninspired performances and guities) Murphy (Kevin Costner) uing theme that the audience has men" deciding to stupidly risk his probably a better pitch than it is a a pouring out of nonsensical vio­and three other men (Christian lo figure out if life by makingfinished product: Elvis imperson­lence. At two hours long, "3,000 Slater, David Arquette and Cybil is conning himself a wide ators rob a casino during Elvis Miles to Graceland" has about 15 Bokeem Woodbine) to rob a casi­Michael for her "3,000 Miles open target. or Impersonators' Weck, gel greedy. minutes of engaging content. The no during Elvis Impersonators· own benefit. is the fact that he deceive Mch other and take to rest of the time the movie sput­Week. in collusion with to Graceland" was able to kill the road, switching possession of ters around the weak interpreta­After somewhat of a success, Murphy or if 10 or 15 agents
the money bag about once every tion of its story line and would've the men are split on what to do she is actually beforn a single15 minutes. Throw a Iovo story lulled the audience to sleep if it with the $3.2 million and get with him. one shot hit into the mix, a little personal were nut fur the pitter patter of greedy about their shares. The By the climac­out offive shamrocks him. drama about connecting with a machine gun fire at seemingly three peripheral men arc elimi­tic final show­Overall, lost father, add some guns and every available opportunity. nated, leaving Michael dueling down in Director: Demian Lichtenstein "3,000 Miles to 
Murphy for money. The rest of Washington. the Starring: Kevin Costner, Kurt Graceland" is the movie plays out a.s a road trip, movie has worth no 
expelled all Russell, Christian Slater and
detailing the exploits of the sadis­amount of tic Murphy and the well-inten­sorts of ridicu-Courteney Cox Arquette money. The tioned Michael as they inexplica­lous subplots, reason it gets bly travel northwest. away from like throwing darts blindly at a one shamrock is for the promise Graceland. bull's eye. All these subplots, that is encapsulated in it. Costner 
"3,000 Miles to Graceland" can­including hints of Murphy's and Cox's performances arc actu­not help but choose sides for the heredity to the real Elvis Presley ally above average. done well audience immediately. Murphy is and Michael's possible earlier because of each actor's unique played as a hostile, cold-blooded romantic involvement with Cybil. approach to the characters maniac. Michael, although he are terrible attempts to resurrect despite the poorly written dia­helps in the heist. carefully man­audience interest. logue that was handed to them. ages to not shoot anyone. The To explain the depths of stupid­Other than thosn pnrf'ormances, movie's message is too clear: !loot ity this movie reaches, an exam­the movie basks in iL<; poor gun­for Michael. However, the ple would be quite helpful. In the play, amazingly underdone char­dynamic characterization of movie's last 10 minutes, Ice-T acters and one of the weakest Murphy is clearly the more finally emerges. He is billed by executions of a plot seen in at engaging role. Perhaps that the Howie Long character (in least five years. engagement is attributable to some terrible dialogue) as "worth "3,000 Miles to Graceland" can Costner who. besides picking an two or three men" because of his be summed up like its title: Its awful movie, actually makes the unique killing ability. The audi­destination might be visualized 
Pnoto courtesy ot Warner Bros. f'lctures 
best ofhis role. ence must have been shocked but it is going in the wrong direc­David Arquette (far left), Russell, Costner, Christian Slater and Recognizing this, the movie that, less than five minutes later, tion. So, back in Graceland. the Bokeem Woodbine star in the tragtcally bad "Graceland." tries to even out the plot with Ice-Ts kamikaze killing style gets King slowly turns in his grave. 
VIDEO PICK OF THE WEEK 
'Sarajevo' questions America's responsibility 
a job they will. necessarily important, nor how well the 
By MATT CACCAMO 
Much of the action follows English televi­script follows the true story it sets out to Scc,nc Movie Critic 
sion reporter Michael Henderson tell. It is the separation of personal and (Stephane Dillane) as he tries to report on political within such wars that the film 
In 1991. Yugoslavia, a multi-ethnic and cope with the brutal images of war in brings out most successfully. nation that remained one throughout the front of him every day. While many of the The reality on the ground is rarely Cold War, began to disintegrate. Slovenia other reporters are able to drown their reflected by the jargon in political and and Croatia declared independence and, fear and anxiety in alcohol, cigarettes and bureaucratic circles. While innocent people shortly thereafter, were forced to defend late-night chat sessions, Henderson is dif­suffer, bureaucrats and politicians talk their new freedom against Serbian annies ferent. The West's ignorance and inaction about sovereignty, risk and human-rights intent on preserving a Yugoslav state his­enrage him, and he makes it his goal to violations. This helps no one; Henderson torically beneficial to their group. challenge that. and his courageous, if sometimes crazed, 
following the example of their northern It is in this smaller story within the larger acts of kindness help some Bosnians live a neighbors. the most multi-ethnic and divid­war story that the film excels. Using a mix­better life. ed of the Yugoslav provinces, Bosnia. ture of real and fictional footage, One of Henderson's friends is an declared its independence in 1992. What Winterbottom draws a stark contrast American television reporter, Flynn followed was a brutal war fought in both between the official line taken by England, (Woody Harrelson), who represents the rural and urban Bosnia the United States and whole range of reactions to war in Western between ethnic Muslims, NATO, and the more circles. On the outside, he's cocky, brash
"Welcome to
Croats and Serbs. personal approach of a and aloof. He acts as though nothing about Explaining this war man on the ground in the war offends or bothers him; he's there 
Sarajevo"

with its many contradic­Bosnia. to do a job and be praised for it. His exteri­tions and developments We see footage of or appearance is much the same as the is dillicult; portraying it President Bush. U.S. and its allies. They can't show emotion 
Director: Michael Winterbottom 
on film less than 10 President Clinton and or caring for innocent Bosnians because 
years aftnr it happened Starring: Woody Harrelson, U.N. Secretary General that would compromise lheir intogrity and Photo courtesy ot Miramax Hims is even more complex. Marisa Tomei and Stephen Dlllane Boutros-Boutros Gali destroy their professionalism. Stephen Dillane (far left), Woody In "Welcome to sidestepping and spin-However, as the film proceeds, we see a Harrelson and Marisa Tomei star in 
Sarajevo." English direc-ning the war in Bosnia different side of Flynn. a more personal. "Welcome to Sarajevo." tor Michael Winterbottom brings to the as none of the West's business. Juxtaposed introspective side. This is a man who hates screen a vivid, troubling account of the with that we see Henderson, a man terribly the brutality he sees in front of him, much 
to stop widespread killing and genocidii in
Bosnian war that reveals more than any affected by the brutality he sees, who like Henderson, and responds to that with Bosnia is accepted today as a foreign policy text.book or teacher could. presses ahead nonetheless, making the small ac'ls of kindness and a hidden deter­
error supported by two successive
The film centers on a small group of for­evacuation of an endangered children's mination to cover the war correctly. 
American administrations. The issue iseign reporters (mostly British and orphanage his ultimate goal. From afar, Flynn is the type of person how to avoid this again. Textbooks andAmerican} who are thrown into Bosnia to The second half of the movie follows who wouldn't understand or care about teachers can only get us so far; they can cover a war that few people at home care Henderson more closely as he smuggles a the war in Bosnia. However. his job brings tell of the violence and abuse, but theyabout. Bosnian Muslims lighting Bosnian young Bosnian Muslim girl out of Sarajevo, him in direct contact with refugees, can't make us see and believe it.
Serbs on the streets of Sarajevo hardly adopts her in England, and later struggles orphans, amputees and other victin1s of a A film like "Welcome to Sarajevo" brings catches anyone's fancy in the peaceful and to keep her from being sent back to her hateful and mindless battle; now he under­that terrible reality to our living rooms, prosperous West. Nevertheless. these war-torn homeland. stands. 
and while it's difficult to watch at times, it's reporters are sent there to do a job, and do It is not the details of this story that are The West's inaction and eventual failure also important. Seeing is believing. 


Thursday, March l, 2001 page 15 
MOVIE FEATURE 

relationships, peculiar actors mop of gray hair atop his head. 
By GUNDER KEHOE 
and outfits from other dimen­As Mr. Llttlejeans, Pallana need Scene Movie Critic 
sions. The lasting effect is a only be himself and act content movie that has its very own tone. in "Rushmore's" landscape 
The beginning of "Rushmore" Seemingly ripped from the pages genius. is like a grade-school yearbook, of a child's coloring book, While groundskeeping may not with the pages coming alive with "Rushmore" is its own off-bal­be central to the film. Kumar's Max Fischer's after-school anced universe. contribution is unforgettable as schedule. It's a splendid montage This is a land where people he quietly rakes leaves, falls of his many hobbies, all different are people and ages are of little asleep during plays or blends as night is from day. Max (Jason consequence. The social cliques into the background, playing Schwartzman) shoots clay cross the age barrier, and Max's with rope. He ends his part on a pigeons on the school lawn and triangle soon attracts the likes of beautiful final note: The basket­smokes bees from their wooden Herman Blume (Bill Murray), a ball coach asks. "What did you hives. Then, Max drops the bee­steel magnate many years Max's think of the play, Mr. keeper's garb, puts on his flight elder. Llttlejeans ?" scarf and goggles and goes It's a collision of generations as He replies short and sweetly, buzzing around in his piper cub. both boy and man are trying to "Best play ever, man." 
When he's done logging hours capture either their missing While Kumar Pallana makes on the single engine prop, he youth or an elusive adulthood. wonderful acting strides, he is goes back to the theatre and Suddenly, a steal tycoon is no narrowly overshadowed by an trains his young thespians on the longer hobnobbing with other individual who remains name­skills of acting. This isn't typical magnates; he's transported back less. The anonymous individual teenage acting. This isn't a high­to his younger years and says nothing and does nothing, school rendition of Thornton becomes pals with a teenager. but his memorable face is an 
Wilder's "Our Town." It's While Margaret Yang is a ornament of nearly every frame. guage that informs the movie's fits, it would just be playground "Serpico" on stage. It's coke young rose ready to be plucked, Look closely at Anderson's mise­oddball tone. nonsense. Instead, Anderson busts for a live audience of wide­Max deludes himself with a high­en-scene to find a boy with Sometimes all a scene needs is takes Merlin hats and creepy eyed 5-year-olds. er prize: a school teacher twice sunken eyes and a sickly face. a hat or a cape to bolster its reg­masks. and makes this standard Thus unfolds "Rushmore" and his age. Max deserves credit for He's the skinny youngster who's ularity into a quirky master­ambush a surreal Halloween 
piece. Dirk Calloway's purple sneak attack. There's somethingso goes Max's story, putting his ambitious plans, but he aims first introduced when Magnus, 
hands in every pocket and fear­a bit high with the courtship of the Scottish brute, sticks the boy Halloween suit is a brilliant wiz­bizarre about Max walking care­lessly treading where other boys Miss Cross (Olivia Williams). The with a poison-tipped dart. The ard's wardrobe that would make free into a courtyard only to his age would never dream of way in which Max falls for an dart pricks the boy's neck and he Merlin jealous. have a young Merlin leap out going. older woman, or the way Mr. jerks his head in pain. From Little Dirk prances around the from behind a tree, casting 
The opening sequence is a nut­Blume becomes the courier of here on out, the child is a well­courtyard with a magical hat spells. 
Anderson has the special gift shell reminder of the film's love-notes, is one of the film's placed motif, popping up now that stands no less than nine feet tall. Alongside Dirk, other stu­of finding life's tiny ideas that fallcountless ideas. Just as Max has many charms. Both characters and again, wearing dinosaur through the cracks. Whether ithis wish list of ridiculous goals are reaching for either an age in hats. dents run incognito. some 
The boy's greatest moment is dressed as goblins and others be a cone-shaped Merlin hat or
and professions, "Rushmore" is a the future or one that has long breeding ground of creative since past. alongside Herman Blume's posing as Long John Silver. the emaciated face of a pre­impulses. The images of "Rushmore" are relaxing cocktail next to the They ambush Max with rotting pubescent boy. there's some­The film's director and co­an ode to these relationships emerald green pool. Herman squirrel turds and sneak from thing special in everything. writer, Wes Anderson, is a mas­between young and old. During lounges back with an icy bour­tree to tree, dressed only in cos­Like its opening image of Max 
Fischer, founder of the bom­
ter of life's eccentric ideas, Max's production of "Serpico," bon and a cigarette dangling tume. The scene is made by 
assembling them all in a loosely the audience is a bizarre com­from his lips as he blindly tosses these young tykes of all ages bardment society, "Rushmore" is wrapped film. Anderson laces posite of kids and adults. Mr. golfballs into the pool. The young dressed as ghouls and wizards the innovator of small and "Rushmore" with unexpected Blume watches attentively. sand­boy, clad only in a Speedo, because, without the festive out-quirky concepts. 
wiched between two palm-sized sneaks into the frame like an 
youngsters watching in awe. It's enemy spy and pluck<, a golf ball a quirky image and a true testa­from the bucket. His fingers ment to the movie's merging of wrap the ball and he patters generations. away. It's impossible to pinpoint 
Anderson has the gift of "peo­exactly what this young boy ple vision," meaning he finds the means and why he inhabits a non-acting gems and sprinkles majority of the film but his pres­them through his films. Instead ence does something for of browsing Hollywood's list of "Rushmore." character actors. Anderson picks Together, the youngster and everyday people to play the cru­Kumar arc non-acting delegates cial bit roles. While Max Fischer thrust into acting roles. Their 
and Mr. Blume may be in the inexperience puts Anderson's foreground, it's the background world off-balance. cast that completes the richness Anderson has the knack of of the "Rushmore" universe. fmding interesting folks with the 
Kumar Pallana is most likely quirky idiosyncrasies that make not a trained actor, but he plays his universe a bit left of center. Mr. Littlejeans to near perfec­Whether it be an aging Native 
tion. Kumar's look is a tribute to American with a belly-aching the world's variety of people: laugh or a young child that looks he's a Native American man like a starving gerbil, both have with faded brown skin and a a peculiar look and body Ian-




page 16 
The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March 1, 200 I 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
North Carolina earns ACC regular-season title with win 
Associated Press 
CHAPEL HILL. N.C. 

No. 4 North Carolina was worrying about making the NCAA Tournament at this time a year ago, not-ruling it. 
What a difference a year makes. 

Joseph Forte scored 27 points and Matt Doherty became the first coach to win or share an ACC regular-season title in his first season as the Tar Heels beat 
N.C. State 76-63 Wednesday night. 
"I would rather be on top than at the bottom," senior center Brendan llaywol>d said. "Last year at this time we were struggling. Now. we're just trying to see if we're going to be a No. 1 or a No. 2 seed. That's definitely a better feeling." 
The Tar Heels (23-4. 13-2 Atlantic Coast Conference) captured the No. 1 seed in next week's ACC tournament in Atlanta with the win, shooting 57 per­cent to rebound from a 20-point loss to Virginia (No. 9 ESPN/USA Today, No. 7 AP) over the weekend. 
No coach in the storied league -noL Dean Smith, Mike Krzyzewski, Jim Valvano, Lefty Driesell, Norm Sloan nor Everett Case -ever had as successful first season as the 39-ycar-old Doherty. 
"He's not going tl> say anything about it because he wants us to get the credit," llaywood said. "A lot of stuff this year has been about him. I know he doesn't like that because he knows without play­ers he can't do anything. Hut I feel he should get a lot of credit." 
Duke could tie North Carolina in the league standings with a victory at the Smith Center on Sunday, but North Carolina would win the tie-breaker because of its season sweep of Maryland. 
"You don't want to share anything and you especially don't want to share it with Duke," Haywood said of the ACC regular-season title. "If we win that game we'll have a lot of momentum heading into the ACC tournament." 
Forte had 19 points in the second half, while Ronald Curry added a career-high 14 as the Tar !-!eels have now won or shared 23 ACC regular-season crowns in the league's 48 years. 
"I was patient and Jet the game come to me in the first half, then I attacked in the second half," Forte said. 
The Wolfpack (13-14, 5-10) played the Tar Heels even for most of the first half 
and trailed by seven at the break, but 
poor shooting once again did in N.C. 
State, which hasn't won consecutive 
games since late December. 
North Carolina led 46-38 with 15:08 
left. N.C. State then hit just one of its 
next 13 shots as the Tar Heels took con­
trol with a 12-4 run to go up by 14 
points. 
"There were some shots that were questionable, some that were pretty good and probably a third category of shots that looked pretty good, but it's hard to estimate the impact of Brendan Haywood around the basket," said Wolfpack coach Herb Sendek. who fell to 1-1 l against the Tar Heels. 
Forte had a three-point play and hit a baseline noater during the end of the spurt. 
N.C. State never got it under double digits the rest of the way in losing for the seventh straight time to North Carolina -the longest streak by the Tar Heels against the Wolfpack since 1981­83. 
Ron Kelley, plagued with knee prob­lems for much of the last two seasons. had his best game of the year for N.C. State. scoring 10 points and grabbing 12 rebounds. 
The loss means the Wolfpack will be the seventh seed in the ACC tournament and play second-seeded Duke. 
The teams combined for 26 turnovers in the opening 20 minutes of their 197th meeting. It was similar to the first one a month ago in Raleigh in which each club posted season-low point totals in a 60­52 North Carolina victory. 
The Tar Heels took more than 12 min­utes to recover offensively from a miser­able 24-point second half against the Cavaliers on Sunday, turning it over 10 times in 10 1/2 minutes and scoring just 12 points to fall behind by five. 
"I think our heads were right," Doherty said. "I know people were try­ing to make some things out of different comments (after the Virginia Joss). but our team was together. If you didn't see that tonight then you weren't watching." 
But the Wolfpack had turnover prob­lems of its own over the last 6:08 of the half. coughing it up seven times as the Tar Heels used a 16-3 run to grab the halftime lead. 
Curry's 11 first-half points matched his season high as he hit all three shots from the field and his five free throws. 
Duke loses more than just game to Maryland 
. Boozer will miss UNC game, ACC Tournament 
Associated rress 
DURHAM, N.C. 

Mike Krzyzewski tried to look convincing Tuesday night when he said No. 2 Duke had to regroup fol­lowing its worst loss of the season. 
But the coach of the Blue Devils knew he had lost more than a game to 16th-ranked Maryland. Center Carlos Boozer, a former Juneau resident, went down in the second half with a fractured third metatarsal in his right foot. 
"We've just got to circle the wag­ons and get tougher,"Krzyzewski said. "We're optimistic that Carlos can return for the NCAA Tournament." 
The 6-foot-9-inch Boozer, Duke's main inside threat, hurt his foot early in the second half, tried to return, then left for good with more than 10 minutes left in the 91-80 loss. 
The Blue Devils (25-4, 12-3 Atlantic Coast Conference) shot 24 percent in the second half without Boozer. who averages 13.9 points and 6.5 rebounds. 
Boozer will miss Sunday's rematch with No. 4 North Carolina. the ACC tournament in Atlanta next week -and maybe beyond. 
The Juneau, Alaska, native is averaging 14.0 points and 6.5 rebounds this season. Boozer, who broke his left foot in the summer of 1999, currently leads Duke and the ACC with a .602 field goal percent­age and is tied for the team lead in rebounding. He is also shooting .729 from the free throw line this season. 
As for the game. Maryland wasn't about to let this win slip away. The Terps blew a IO-point lead in the final minute a month ago at home, but got revenge in Cameron Indoor Stadium. 
Juan Dixon was the offensive and defensive hero for the Terrapins (19-9, 9-6 Atlantic Coast Conference). scoring 28 points and getting five steals. 
Lonny Baxter added 15 points and 10 rebounds, while Terence Morris had 13 points and 12. rebounds as the Terrapins domi­nated the boards in winning at Duke for the second straight sea­son. 
Shane Battier led Duke with 31 
points in his last game in Cameron. 
getting 19 in the first half. 
Duke led 60-51 with 15:20 left. but missed 25 of its first 31 shots of the final half. going more than eight minutes without a basket as Maryland took over. 
Dixon's floater in the lane with six minutes left gave the Terrapins the lead for good at 70-69 and his steal and fastbreak layup on Duke's next trip do• ·, the !1oor seemed to take the wi,1d out of' the already tired and injured Blue Devils. 
Jason Williams reinjured his sore calf in the second half and Duke played the final 91 U2 minutes with­out Boozer. 
The Terrapins, who shot 53 per­cent in the second half, sealed it from the foul line. making 10 of' 11 over the final 1:34. 
Duke's second half was its worst of' the season. going 9-l'or-37 from the field, including 3-f'or-19 from 3­point range. 
Maryland lost four of' l'ivc after the Duke loss on Jan. 27, but have rebounded to win four in a row, including over ranked teams Wake Forest, Oklahoma and the Blue Devils, who had beaten the Terrapins eight of nine coming in. 
Maryland controlled a majority of the first half as Duke started 6-for­17 from the field. 
The Terrapins were up by nine, but Duke's press began to bother Maryland as the Blue Devils closed with a 23-7 run l>Ver the final 4:50. 
Battier was the main offensive weapon in the spurt, scoring nine points in a span of 1 :02 as the Blue Devils made five 3-pointers in four minutes to go up by seven at the break. 
Battier's second 3-pointer in the run was from 25 feet as Duke was 7-for-14 from beyond the arc in the opening 20 minutes -four coming from Battier. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right 10 edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
TICKETS 
Need 1 ticket to Men's b-ball game 
on Mar. 4 for dad. Call Carolyn 4· 
2346 
Wanted 2 Tix tor Georgetown game on Sunday 3/4. Call Kim @ 631 • 5878 
WANTED 
Fraternities•sororities Clubs'Student Groups Earn $1 ,000·$2,000 this semester with the easy Campuslundraiser com three hour lundraising event No sales required. Fundraislng dates are fill­ing quickly, so call today! Contact Carnpusfundraiser.com at {886) 923-3238, or visit www.campus­lundraiser.com 
Make $5500 in summer &/or start now. Set own hours -need hard work & good social skills Call 4­2765. 
SUMMER HELP NEEDED ­TEACHER ASSISTANTS The Early Childhood Development Center at the University of Notre Dame is looking tor college stu­dents who enjoy young children. It you would be interested in spending the summer, June 7-August 3 -40 hours per week, assisting the chil­dren and teachers on field trips, reading chddren's books, building with blocks. singing songs, playing games and assisting with lunch, please call 631-3344 to receive an application and more information. FUN IN THE SUNII 
Reliable, quality childcare needed in my home for 2-year-ofd and infant. Part-time hours are 2-3 hrs/day, 3-4 days/wk with 1 Saturday amonth. Ma1oring in early childhood development or child­
hood education with own trans• p0rtation a plus but not necessary. References required. Phone 288-6795 
Ex ND staffer and spouse want to rent your apt. for summer. Non­smokers no pets. Have rented from students for past 12 summers. Write 135 Lakeview Dr. Mulberry FL 33860 863-425-4402 
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: Make a difference in the life of a child! Summer therapy camp lor children with disabilities. Located on shore of Lake Superior near Big Bay, Ml. Positions available tor Counselors, Lifeguards, Instructors for Nature/ Arts & 
Cralts/Recreation/Canoeing, Nurses, Therapists, Food Service, and Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic, responsible, and love children. June 17 through August 12. Salary, Room & Board, and experience of a litetime provided Call or write for application and information. Bay Cliff Health Camp, 310 W. Washington, Suite 300, Marquette, Ml 49855, (906)228-5770, e-mail BayCliffHC@aol.com 

LOST & FOUND 
Reward Available • Lost Class Ring Blue Stone with Small ND dark finish with '01 inside 
Call Todd at 246-9085 SIZEABLE REWARD OFFERED: 
For a lost gold and silver bracelet 
with alternating silver and gold blocks, if found please contact 
Rachel Phillips al 4-1492 or email phillips. 75@nd.edu 
FOR RENT 
2-4 PERSON HOUSE FOR RENT. NEWLY RENOVATED. THREE BLOCKS FROM CAM PUS. 
CALL 29-298-3800 

3-6 bedroom homes turn. Near campus 2001/02&summer 272· 6306 
All the good homes are not gonel 
Available 4 bedroom. Available 2 bedroom. Dave 291-2209 Macos@rnichiana.org 
3-5 bedroom homes close lo campus 
232-2595 mmmrenlals@aol.com 
2 Houses, side by side, still avail. For 2001-02. Rent one or both, 4 BR & 6 BR, Furnished, beach V· ball, W/D, prime location, 233-9947 Greg FOR SALE $$ Get paid for your opinions!$$ Earn $15-$125 and more per sur­vey! www.money4opinions.com 
2-4 PERSON HOUSE FOR RENT. NEWLY RENOVATED. THREE BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. CALL 219-298·3800. 
FOR SALE 

New Townhouse in "The Forest" 2 story 2.5 bath Study Hardwood floors Skylights Deck French doors Alarm $179,900 243-2939 
SPRING BREAK-DOWNTOWN CHICAGO! $22-25/night-Hoslelling Int'! $2 OFF WITH AD 
312/360-0300 or www.hichicago.org 
PHONE CARDS $20: 2601 MIN WITH 49 CENT SUR­CHARGE or $20 362 MIN WITH NO FEES 634-1146 CLAUDIA 634•4210 SARA 
Wooded 1/2 acre lots 20 minutes to Notre Dame Football. Minutes to US Golf Academy. Contract avail• able. $20,000 Phone (219) 473­0191 
Microwave stand w/ storage $175 Call Kim 631-5878 
Beautiful brass bed, queen size, with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame. All new, never used, still in plastic. $235 219-862-2088 
89 Toyota Corolla manual 1DOK highway miles $2300 call 273·3149 
PERSONAL 
Mary Henrick is the coolest, most scandalous girl that i know 
nighly-night, i wishl 

-·•--·­
Thursday, March 1, 200 I page 17
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
_________________..............._____..__ 



Collegiate _Jazz Fest 
Tickets available at LaFun box office 
Milkplow
Rock music from Chicago Thurs. 10:30 @ Alumni Senoir Club 

Applications available at SUB office, due 3.2, for 3.23 performance Bands and Solo artists welcome 
Movies 
Unbreakable (101 DeBartolo) The Sixth Sense (155 Debartolo) Thurs. 10:30, Fri. & Sat 8:00 & 10:30 
Arousticafe1 
More rock music Thurs. 9:00 @ the Huddle 
-,-n-""".J...W'--.... -J....+ TIX& • .(P z____.,.__,.____,____.......,w________
! 
•ll'll!llea.-1111«-1110..:"''"':gp.•-• . -=¦z---¦•1111111!!~•
19'!--..-.~~-!!t'""'!II'-..,.,_""'**""'1¥r-l,.._•"lll-il"""""'l411'110--'111.tU""'t!IIS-111. -. 
'
.1 n v• urs ay, March I, 200 I 

Bouts 
continued from page 28 
narrowly beat Jason McMahon in a split deci­sion. 
"I knew it was going to be really close,"" Coleman said of the out­come. "I jusl thought maybe I got a few more punches in in the first round and that would be enough to swing things in my favor." 
145 Pounds 
The clash that pitted Michael "Mad Man" Waldo against Andrew "The Golden Arms" Harms was supposed to be one of the night's best, but a dominating Waldo had other ideas. 
After a close first round, Waldo went mad in the second connecting on a series of devastat­ing blows that had Harms bleeding badly. 

"I was pissed off that he got me in the first so I came out hard in the second." Waldo said. 
The third round was a mere formality, with Harms forced back to his corner several times for treatment of his battle scars. In a light the ref­eree considered ending early. Waldo continued his assault landing vicious shot after vicious shot. 
The night's other semi­final bout featured a controversial decision as Jamar Tisby split over Jason Voss. Tisby con­trolleQ the mostly uneventful first two rounds, before Voss ral­lied in the third knocking down his foe with a booming right hand. • 
"He's a real tough opponent." Tisby said. "He surprised me in the third when he knocked me down, but I knew it wasn't over then so I went hard until the bell." 

The Bengal Bouts' semifinals featured hard hitting, quick Jabs and fancy footwork as the best two fighters In each weight class advanced to the finals on Friday night In the Joyce Center. 
Matassa ends furious fight with a win over Owens 
knocked McGree into the turn• of two veteran fighters, with his nickname to "Wednesday blowout. ByJEFF BALTRUZAK buckle, his second fall of the each waiting patiently to attack. Night" after his unanimous deci­Joe Smith controlled his bout Spores Wri1c:r fight. After a standing eight The second round would be sion over Mike "The Militia Man" against second seeded Travis 
count, Heckman started to domi­more aggressive, but neither Melby. Abdelnour showcased his "Posse" Alexander on his way to 
nate despite his bleeding. fighter was able to establish any quickness against the sophomore a unanimous decision. Alexander 
The first fight of the 150­

In a fight where hard punching dominance. Melby, moving around the· ring repeatedly and aggressivelypound weight class started with 
a fury, as Tom "T.K." Owens and fast exchanges were the "It was tough for me to land with the confidence that comes went after Smith, only to have attacked the higher seeded Chris rule, Heckman not surprisingly combinations," said Dobosh. "I with a fourth year fighter. his charges effectively countered emerged with a unanimous deci­couldn't find a rhythm the whole Abdelnour kept Melby at bay with strong punching. 
"Shezzy" Matassa, throwing a sion. fight." the entire fight, not allowing the Smith has established himselffive-punch combination immedi­Dobosh started to gain the younger boxer to get land effec­as a heavy hitter throughout the ately after the fighters touched 155 Pounds upper hand in the third. Overall, tive jabs and score points with tournament, and his showdown

gloves. Matassa successfully 

Past champion Sean "The Erie he landed more punches the judges. Abdelnour landed with Abdelnour should be quickcountered Owens, using a supe­Kid" Nowak entered throughout the fight, but the out­body blows on Melby consistently with big-time punching. 
rior reach to jab his way out of Wednesday's semifinal having come was hardly decided when all three rounds. But Abdelnour's experiencethe ropes en route to a semifinal only fought a round and a half in the referee picked up the judge's "I think I took [his reach] out of and preparedness will be toughwin Wednesday. 

this year's bouts. Tom cards showing Dobosh had won play at the beginning," said for Smith to match. 
"My jab is the advantage I use to win fights," said Matassa. "My "Frenchman" Pierce has battled a unanimous decision. Abdelnour. "I kept my hands "Every time I get in the ring 
coaches tell me that, and my cor­in the both the preliminaries and high and worked his body." with the crowd and everything it quarters. and will continue on to 160 Pounds Melby received a standing gets a little easier," said
ner tells me that." 

the finals as he upset Nowak in a Dennis "Thursday Night" eight-count after an exchange in Abdelnour. "l feel like I'm light­It was then Matassa's turn to split decision. Abdelnour might want to change the third, but the fight was not a ing the best I ever have now." 
attack, landing a solid head shot 

The first round began with
that put Owens' back briefly on Nowak attempting to establish

the mat. The first round ended with Matassa's jab dominating. his jab, to mixed success. He 
landed several quality punches, The second round took on a but the freshman Pierce confi­
ENGAL BOUTS RESULTS
different tone, as Owens found dently moved inside to keep the

ways to get inside Matassa's 

for fights on Feb. 28
fight even. 
reach and drive the junior into The second round was more ofropes. 

the same, as Nowak could not 
130 LBS, WEIGHT CLASS 135 LBS, WEIGHT CLASS
"He's a tough fighter," said get gain any consistent groundMatassa. "[ was just backing up 

Shawn Newburg def. Tom Steinbach Tony Hollowell def. Ryan Duffey
on Pierce, with the younger
instead of moving to the side and 

Camilo Rueda def. Derrick Bravo Joshua Coleman def. Jason McMahon 
fighter counter-punching effec­he got me up against the ropes tively enough to keep Nowakand into the corner." 
away. 

145 LBS, WEIGHT CLASS 150 LBS. WEIGHT CLASS
The rest of the round was 

Pierce put together a round topunctuated by even exchanges, 
Michael Waldo def. Andrew Harms Chris Matassa def. Tom Owens
remember in the third. The fightwith each fighter landing punch­
Jeman Tisby def. Jason Voss Brock Heckmann def. Tucker McEree 
was stopped three times in thees and moving effectively. 
round to control Nowak's bleed­Matassa began the third round 
155 LBS, WEIGHT CLASS 160 LBS, WEIGHT CLASS
ing, and the crowd got behindby landing a huge hook. Owens Pierce as he gradually took con­dropped to one knee, took a 
Tom Pierce def. Sean Nowak Dennis Abdelnour def. Mike Melby 
trol.
breath and stood up to take a 

Jeff Dobosh def. Paul Mehan Joe Smith def. Travis Alexander 
The second semifinal featuredstanding eight count. The referee a reprisal of last years' final in
stopped the fight at the one 

165 LBS. WEIGHT CLASS 175 LBS, WEIGHT CLASS
.. the weight class, with second
minute mark in the final round. 

seeded JefT "The Pittsburgh Kid" 
Brian Hobbins def. Justin Myers Rob Joyce def. Keith Arnold
As expected, Brock "Landers" Dobosh entering the ring against Heckman came out of his corner 

Thomas Macias def. Christopher Kitalong Mark Criniti def. John Lynk
Paul ..He-Man" Mehan. Doboshswinging against Tucker "The had not previously fought thisWicked Bad Bostonian" McGree. 
185 LBS. WEIGHT CLASS LIGHT HEAVYWEIGHT CLASS
year, as Robert "Little Mac"
And for the first 30 seconds of McColgan forfeited their quarter­

the bout, he landed many of 

Josh Thompson def. Eric Goulet Peter Ryan def. Ben Deda 
final bout. 
those punches, especially his 

Scott Duba def.Stephen Pfeiffer Mike Vanderpoel def. Kevin Brandl
For Dobosh, not fighting onhooks earning his right to the 
Monday was major disadvan­
li1.le fight. 

HEAVYWEIGHT CLASS
tage.
Still. McGree proved himself to "When the tight started. I felt 

Dan Adam def. Steven Practico
be a brawler throughout the 

sloppy," said Dobosh. "It's hardtournament, and he stood up to 
Carlos Abeyta def. Matthew McNichols 
to go in there cold when every·Heckman throught the bout. 
body else has been fighting."
Heckman was furious in the The first round had the marksecond, as a strong combination 

-




-------------------------------------------~--"-•·-------=---­
Thursday, March 1, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS 
page 19 

Hobbins earns unanintous win, Illoves on to face Macias 

Thompson moves one step closer to championship 
Light Heavyweight

By KATIE HUGHES It was all about the over­Sports Wrirer whelming impact of Pete "Beat the Rap" Ryan's left jab last 
Bengal bouts veteran Josh night as Ryan defeated "The Redemon" Thompson is Benjamin "No, You're just one fight away from the title Schmoopie" Deda in a unani­he's been chasing for so long. mous decision, Thompson. who was favored to Uyan used height and reach \\-in, defeated Eric "Superfreak" advantage early and often in his Goulet in a unanimous decision. first fight of the year. Ryan, who 
Thompson had a reach advan­has won the heavyweight divi­tage over Goulet, and his jab sion championship for the last combinations dominated the three years, took control early entire fight. Goulet tried to push with his straight, solid left jabs. for a brawl late in the first Deda's put up quite a 
round and early in the second, respectable defense. challenging but Thompson's solid jabs shut Ryan consistently for all three 
him down. rounds. 
"[Eric] has improved so much Mike "Raging Bull" since the first time I saw him Vanderpoel defeated Kevin box" He came at me hard today, "Hardcore" Brandl in another and I think he fought well. I unanimous decision. Vanderpoel landed a few straight punches in pressed for the brawl a little in the second round, and I think the first round, then followed up that slowed him down," said with some solid one-two jabs in Thompson. the second round. Vanderpoel 
Thompson also had the advan­finished the job in the third tage of another experienced per­round with some high three-jab spective in his corner. combinations and low hooks. 
"Having [fellow captain] Brian "I was able to come in up top, Hobbins in my corner really and down low to the body. I helped me a lot. He knows how I think I had a little more 
fight and what I needed to do," endurance. I could feel it in the said Thompson. third round," said Vanderpoel. Me" Adam defeated Steven · went for it, sending both boxers a few of Abeyta's well-placed 
Also in the 185 division, Scott Vanderpoel will face Ryan in "Lefty Guns" Pratico in a split teetering on the side of the ring jabs gave him an advantage. "The Dark Horse" Duba defeat­Friday's finals. decision match. and even to their knees for a Abeyta finished with a few more ed Stephen "The Angry Pirate" "He's the best boxer here. It "Steve is a big, imposing guy. moment. big hooks and upper cuts. Pfeiffer in a unanimous decision. will be great to get in there to When he hit, I just tried to throw "We were both sucking in "I think my jab helped a lot, 
Duba sent Pfeiffer over the see what I'm made of. I'll take harder punches, but we were wind till the end," said Adam. and I was able to keep my side of the ring in the second the opportunity," said back and forth the whole time," In the second heavyweight punches straight. I was able to round. It was Duba's right Vanderpoel. said Adam. fight, Carlos "The Master" use a lot of combos in this fight. uppers and hooks that dominat­Adam had some high impact Abeyta defeated Matthew 'The which I wasn't able to do in my ed the fight, as both boxers shed right hooks in the second round, Sasquatch" McNicholas. In the last fight. He kept charging at
Heavyweight 

a little blood and tested each and Pratico came back a little first round, Abeyta set the tone me, but I wouldn't let him. That 
In a back-and-forth heavy­
other's endurance. with some imposing left jabs to with a decisive high right hook. felt good," said Abeyta. 
weight battle that brought both 
Duba will face Thompson on Adam's body. In the third round, McNicholas had a strong series Abeyta will face Adam on
boxers to their knees, Dan "Let 
Friday. Adam stopped anticipating and of jabs in the second round, but Friday. 

By BRIAN BURKE 
Sports Writer 
Going into his semifinal bout, Brian "Nightmare" Hobbins expected Justin "The ResLife Regular" Meyers to come at him charging, and he came pre­pared. Early on, it looked as if Meyers could back Hobbins into the ropes and fight toe to toe, but Hobbins used an array of effec­tive combinations to expose Meyors and earn the unanimous decision. 
"The best way to deal with a charger is to keep your move­ment going, moving backwards and then to the side, and keeping your punches straight as you can," Hobbins said. "It worked pretty well for me." 
One straight punch sent Meyers to the canvas at the start of the second round. Meyers charged and Hobbins landed a shot that more surprised a frus­trated Meyers than anything. By midway through the third round, both fighters were exhausted from playing cat and mouse, and they stood at the center of the ring, slugging it out as the crowd roared" 
"At the end when we got caught up in that kind of wrestling match, it was because I couldn't move backwards as fast as he can move forwards," Hobbins said. "I felt tired, I just tried channeling power, and just think about all the people who ar"e behind me in my corner, my friends and family rooting for me, and it gives me the strength to keep throwing because I know they want to see a good show." 
Hobbins will face 31-year-old grad student Thomas "Boom­Boom" Macias who won a sloppy fight over Chris "Can't We All Just" Kitalong. Sloppy would actually be a gross understate­ment. The first round started out with fast somewhat controlled exchanges, and ended with Macias being knocked down by a Kitalong hook right at the bell. 
The remainder of the fight was something like a cross between a wrestling match and a pillow fight. Both fighters were throw­ing wild hooks and opening themselves to hard shots to the face. There was plenty of push­ing, lunging and even head butting. In the third round espe­cially, Macias simply landed more haymakers than Kitalong and despite being knocked down in round one, won a unanimous decision. 
175 Po~nds 
It is down to captain against captain. Defending champion against defending champion. 
With unanimous decision vic­tories, Robert "A.M.D.G." Joyce and Mark 'Tm So Pretty" Criniti have set up a title bout meeting 
for the 175-pound belt Fridaynight. 
Criniti did an excellent job of counter punching a hard hitting John Lynk in his semifinal win. Lynk was able to back Criniti into the ropes on several occa· sions, but Criniti did most of his 
damage when he seemed to be trapped" Criniti did get hit, but his three-punch combinations allowed him to win the majority of the exchanges. 
Rob Joyce faced an opponent, Keith Arnold. in the semifinals who had decided his best chance was to brawl with the more tac­tical Joyce" Like Criniti. Joyce kept his charging foe at bay. landing good jab and straight right" Arnold liked to duck and put his head down in close, and Joyce capitalized several times. 
"He had good head movement. which is hard to hit when he comes in moving like that," Joyce said. "My corner told me to throw a one or two uppercuts which I did, and threw a couple lower shots to get him in the head." 
Joyce's focus now turns to the clash with his fellow captain. 
"We talked about it all tourna­ment," he said. "We're both so happy we each won, but when once it gets time for the ring we're both gonna be down to business. I know Mark's a great fighter and I'm just looking for­ward to fighting him." 
'-"'_,__ 
page 20 
NFL 

Johnson to take over as Bills' quarterback 
A,,ociarcd Pre.,s 
OHCHARD PARK, N.Y. 
Doug Flutie will be cut after an exhaustive study led the Buffalo Bills to conclude that Rob Johnson is the best quar­terback for the team. 
In announcing the long-await­

E t h a n
ed decision on "It was based solely on 

Albright.
Wednesday, which quarterback was Donahoe
Bills general 

best suited to lead this stressed that 
manager and 

neither
president Tom football team. " 

salary, age
Donahoe was 

nor size 
relieved the 

Tom Donahoe played into
monthlong 

the decision•
Bills general manager
selection 
process was over. 
"We weighed everything we could weigh ... and when we put it all together, it wasn't just one factor that came up," Donahoe said. "We felt that Rob Johnson was the best quarterback, and we wanted to pick the best quarterback for our future." 
Donahoe hoped the announcement ends the long­brewing controversy that divid­ed the fans and the team over the past three seasons. 
But he acknowledged that it might not end the second­guessing. 
"We know that today's deci­sion may not be a popular one with our fans. But our responsi-• bility as an organization is not necessarily to make the popular decisions. but to make the right decisions," Donahoe said. 

Donahoe added that he plans to make two more cuts, includ­ing releasing veteran long­
snapper 
making 
process. 
"It was not based on age. It was not based on size. It was not based on how much of a hit we will take on the salary cap. It was based solely on which quarterback was best suited to lead this football team,'' said Donahoe. 
Flutie, 37, is 10 years older, six inches shorter and about 30 pounds lighter than the 6-foot­4. 212-pound Johnson. 
Flutie nor Johnson were immediately available for com­ment. The Bills said Johnson will comment on the decision during a telephone conference call on Thursday. 
The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March I, 200 I 
Flutie, Leaf beco01e free agents 
Associated Press 

Quarterbacks Ryan Leaf and Doug Flutie became free agents and three-time Super Bowl champion Ken Norton Jr. was released Wednesday as NFL teams sliced their payrolls as a salary cap dead­line approached. 
More players will be released as teams get down to the $67 .4 million salary cap before free agency begins Friday. 
"We are preparing for free agency and the draft and this allows these players to catch on with another team," Chargers general manager John Butler said, after get­ting rid of Leaf and four oth­ers. 
In other salary-driven moves, the Pittsburgh Steelers released center Derrnontti Dawson and the Carolina Panthers released three players who were with George Seifert when he won a Super Bowl with the 49ers in 1995. 
Several more prominent players could be released on Thursday. Even teams under the salary cap were looking for ways to trim the payroll to get more flexibility. 
"There are only so many slices to the pie," Miami Dolphins coach Dave Wannstedt said. "We're going to lose a couple of key guys. 
There's no way around that." 
The Kansas City Chiefs. 
who ended last season almost 
$30 million over the cap, 
were trying to see whether 
they could restructure Elvis 
Grbac's contract. The quar­
terback's contract calls for a 
$10 million bonus if he's still 
on the roster Friday. 

Six-time Pro Bowl defensive 
lineman John Handle expect­
ed to be released by the 
Minnesota Vikings because 
he wouldn't agree to restruc­
ture his contract. 

The Chargers began 
reshaping the NFL's worst 
team of 2000 by waiving 
Leaf, who had been in con­
stant trouble during his three 
seasons. 

Leaf was the second pick in 
the 1998 draft, taken right 
after Peyton Manning, but 
played poorly and became a 
distraction with his boorish 
behavior. 

Leaf missed all of the 1999 
season with a shoulder injury 
and won the starting job last 
summer, but was benched 
after throwing five intercep­
tions and .one touchdown in 
the first two games. He also 
started the final six games. 
The Bills ended months of speculation by announcing that R·ob Johnson will be the quarterback next season, -making Flutie expendable. The Bills had to cut almost $8 million off their payroll and saved $3 million by cutting 
Flu tie. 
Flutie, who went 21-9 as a starter with the Bills, turns 38 in October, another factor working against him. 
Norton spent six years with Dallas before joining the 49ers as a free agent in 1994. Norton is the only player in NFL history to win three con­secutive Super bowls -two with the Cowboys, one with the 49ers. 
The Steelers also released a player who had ties to their past. Dawson. 36, is the last Steeler to play for both Chuck Noll and Bill Cowher and is the only player other than Mike Webster to play center for the team over the last 25 years. 
The seven-time Pro Bowler was due a $1 million bonus if he was still on the roster on March 9. The Steelers are trying to figure a way to keep running back Jerome Bettis. 
"In order for us to sign some of our other free agents, we are forced to make some very difficult decisions," vice president Art Rooney II said. 
Record-setting running back Corey Dillon will be the most accomplished free­agent available, but the Cincinnati Bengals used their transition tag on him, giving them the right to match any offer. Given the sorry state of the Bengals offense, they' re determined not to lose him. 


5:00 p.m.-6:00 p.m. Romance Lan­guage Department's Italian Coffee Hour, Decio 131 
7:00 
p.m. Body Image Awareness Week ­'Develop a Healthy Lifestyle without the Quick Fix" by Judy Molnar, 155 DeBartolo 

7:00 
p.m. Speaker: David N. Keightley, 'Current Affairs Panel: The Pre-history and Early History of China at the Tum of the Millennium: Chineseness in the Making" ­131 DeBartolo Hall 


7:30 p.m. Play: William Shakespeare's 'Romeo and Juliet" -Hesburgh Center for International Studies* 
8:00 p.m. ND Symphony Orchestra Winter Concert, Washington Hall 
8:30 p.m.-10:30 p.m. Open Rec Lacrosse, Court 1, RSRC 
8:30 p.m.-Midnight ND Express Billiards games open, Lafortune Student Center 
9:00 
p.m.-11:00 p.m. "Farley Fels" and Irish Festival with various performers, Lafortune Student Center Ballroom* 

9:00 
p.m. Acoustic cafe, Lafortune Student Center Huddle 


9:30 p.m. "Milkplow" in Concert, Alumni Senior Club* 
10:00 p.m. -Midnight Stepan Center: Open Play Basketball and Volleyball 
10:30 p.m. Movie, "Unbreakable: OeBartolo 101* and "n,e 6" Sense: DeBartolo155* 
6:00 p.m. Alex Wilson Track and Field Invitational, Loftus 
7:00 p.m.-10:00 p.m. Open Rec Badminton, Court 2, RSRC 
7:30 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, ''Shanghai Triad; Snite Museum* 

7:30 
p.m. Play: William Shakespeare's "Romeo and Juliet" -Hesburgh Center for International Studies* 

7:30 
p.m.-Midnight Collegiate Jazz festival, Various Performances -Washing­ton Hall* 


8:00 p.m. Movie, "Unbreakable: DeBartolo 101* and "n,e 6" Sense~ DeBartolo 155* 
8:00 p.m. Bengal Bouts, Finals -Joyce Center Fieldhouse 
8:07 p.m. 807 Friday Night Mass, Morrissey Chapel 

8:30 p.m.-Midnlght Paintball at Michiana Paintball • Van departs from Library Circle* 
B:30 p.m.-Midnight ND Express Billiards games open, Lafortune Student Center 
9:30 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, ''Shanghai Triad'; Snite Museum* 

10:30 p.m. Movie, "Unbreakable~ DeBartolo 101* and "The fJi' Sense'; DeBartolo 155* 
This ad is compiled and published by the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune Student Center. 
Saturday, March 3 
7:00 p.m. Hockey, ND vs Western Michigan -Joyce Center Fieldhouse 
7:30 
p.m. An Evening with the "Humor Artists", Hesburgh Library Auditorium 

7:30 
p.m. Play: William Shakespeare's "Romeo and Juliet'' -Hesburgh Center for International Studies* 


7:30 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, ''Shanghia Triad: Snite Museum* 
7:30 p.m.-10:30 p.m. Collegiate Jazz 
Festival, Various Performances ­Washington Hall* 
8:00 
p.m. Movie, "Unbreakable'; DeBartolo 101* and" n,e 6" Sense'; DeBartolo 155* 

8:00 
p.m. cate Music -Kate Borkowski, Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 


8:30 p.m.-Midnight ND Express Billiards games open, Lafortune Student Center 
9:30 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, ''Shanghia Triad: Snite Museum* 
10:30 p.m. Movie, "U{lbreakable~ DeBartolo 101* and "The f11' Sense'; DeBartololSS* 
*Denotes admission charge for ND/SMC students 
Programs are subject to change without notice. 
: . 
page 21

Thursday, March 1, 2001 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Calendar of Events 
Monday. February 26 through March 26 
Sign-up for Freshman Retreat #35 (March 30-31, 2001) Pick up applications at 103 Hesburgh Library or print one out online at 
www.nd.edu/ ,-,ministrylfreshmanform.html 
Friday, March 2. 8:00 p.m. Morrissey Hall Cha1;>el 
807-A new Mass on Friday night.s 
Friday-Sunday. March 2-3 Sacred Heart Parish Center 
Senior Retreat #5 
Sunday. March 4. 10:00 a.m. 
First Sunday ofLent · 
Sunday. March 4, 10:00 a.m. Notre Dame Room. LaFortune 
RCIAClass Mass at 11:45 a.m. 
Sunday. March 4, 1 :30 p.m. Zahm Hall Chapel 
Spanish Mass Presider: Fr. Thomas V. Bednar, c.s.c. 
Beginning Monday. March 5 through March 30 
Sign-up for Senior Retreat #6 (April 6-7, 2001) Pick up applications at I03 Hesburgh . Library or print one out online 
at www.nd.edu/,.,ministrylseniorform.html 
Monday-Tuesday. March 5-6. 11 :30 pm-10:00pm St. Paul's Chapel, Fisher Hall 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Tuesday. March 6, 7:00p.m. Badin Hall·Chapel 
Campus Bible Study 
Wednesday. March 7. 10:00 p.m. Morrissey Hall Chapel 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
First Sunday of Lent 
Weekend Presiders 
• Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Saturday, February 24,Mass 
5:00 p.m. 
Rev. Edward A. Malloy, c;s.c. 

Sunday, February 25 Mass 
10:00 d.m. 
Rev. Peter D. Rocca, c.s.c. 

11:45 a.m. 
Rev. Gary S. Chamberland, c.s.c. 

Scripture Readings for this Coming Sunday 
1st Reading Dt 26: 4-10 
2nd Re~ding Rom l 0: 8-13 
Gospel Lk 4: 1-13 
Wake up! It's Lent. 
by Fr. Gary Chamberland,c.s.c. 
Seasons come and seasons go -spring following winter, summer following spring. As stu­dents, September means new school clothes and sharpened pencils. December brings Christ­mas vacation and March comes with Spring Break. The Church year has its own cycle: Advent, Christmas, Lent, Easter and ordinary time, each season following the other in a lulling rhythm. We can get caught up in the rhythm and lose sight of the purpose; we can walk through the Church year as many people walk through their lives -aimlessly and unaware. 
Yesterday, we celebrated the beginning of Lent. We signed ourselves with ashes as an acknowledgement of our humanity and our utter reliance on God's mercy. Yesterday, we began to prepare our hearts for the reality of Easter. Yesterday, we shook up our static lives in an 
attempt to become more aware of During Lent, the earth is awakening from the reality of the resurrection and more responsive to its life-giving 
its winter slumber and the rites of spring 
promise. Yesterday, we tore 
are starting. Brown leaves are cleared 
ourselves away from our mundane and dead limbs pruned. Fields hardened routine to recommit to our 
by winter and lack of care are tilled, hard baptismal promises and to living lives of hope. Yesterday, we
clumps of soil broken open and turned 
proclaimed that we are incom­
over; the earth is prepared for new 
plete until we rest in Christ. 
planting. So, too, we are called to turn 
Or did we? Or did we simply ride 
over the hardness of our hearts and to 
the wave of the season and receive 
break open the soil of our souls so that 
ashes on our foreheads because new life may spring forth. they were there, because that's 
what you do on the Wednesday after Fat Tuesday? Did we simply join the procession because the line was moving and it didn't even cross our minds to stop? Have we already begun to float through Lent as we float through much of life, riding the surface of whim and fancy, unaware of deeper currents and the direc­tion we are headed? Yesterday, did we heed the warning of the church and meditate on our human finiteness? Did we embrace the call to turn away from sin and be faithful to the Gos­pel? Or will Easter come along unnoticed with jellybeans and chocolate rabbits and turn our attention next to the Fourth ofJuly, fireworks and the pleasures of the outdoor grill? 
Lent, as its name implies, calls Christians to the work of springtime. All over the northern world, the earth is awakening from its winter slumber and the rites of spring are starting. Brown leaves are cleared and dead limbs pruned. Fields hardened by winter and lack of care are tilled, hard clumps of soil broken open and turned over; the earth is prepared for new planting. So, too, we Christians are called to clear away the dead wood of our lives and to scrape away our self-centeredness, our apathy and our sinful ways. We are called to turn over the hardness of our hearts and to break open the soil of our souls so that new life may spring forth. 
These images ofspring are the stuff of metaphors, but they are not just so many pretty pic­
tures. Living spring -living Lent -is work. The Christian life is a life of work, honest reflec­
tion on who we are and what we have become. This stark honesty leads us to repent of our 
sinful ways and to walk the way of peace. That walk is work. That Lenten walk means embrac­
ing prayer, fasting and almsgiving. We till the soil of our hardened hearts when we attempt to 
pray more earnestly and often, turning our thoughts to God and inviting him ever more fully 
into our lives. That prayer can be a commitment to more formal communal prayer: attending 
Sunday night vespers at the Basilica or making the Stations of the Cross every Friday. It may 
mean a pledge to pray more in private: a nightly visit to the grotto or fifteen minutes every 
morning before the Blessed Sacrament. 
We prepare the ground for planting with fasting. Heed the call to communal fasting and take 
seriously the obligation to abstain from meat on Fridays. These small mortifications prick our 
conscience, expose our weaknesses and help us turn to Christ. Along with these, find some 
personal form of fasting, be it refraining from watching professional wrestling on Monday 
night or giving up Swedish fish, and offer up these little hardships for the needs of others. 
Give alms to those in need: thousands suffer from the effects of earthquakes in Central 
America and Asia, children starve, women are abused. Give a little to others. No, give a lot. 
Give 'til it hurts. Give from your own need and experience the freedom of the resurrection. 
Prayer, fasting and almsgiving are the marks of the season of Lent. They open our hearts and refocus our vision. These works of spring prepare the ground so that when the Father sends the gentle rains of forgiveness, the seeds of faith will grow. We can do the work ofspring or we can simply go through the motions. We can tiil the soil or simply admire the plow. It is a choice. So is faith. Take advantage of the season. Choose wisely. 
... 
C-M 
Campus Mmiscry 
Thursday, March 1, 2001

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS 
NBA 
Miller scores 24 points in Pacers' victory 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS Reggie Miller got the Indiana Pacers back on track. 
Miller scored 24 points as the Pacers found their shooting touch in a 99-86 victory over the Milwaukee Bucks on Wednesday night. 
The Pacers, who hit just 34 percent in Monday's loss at Charlotte, sank 40 of 71 field goals (56.3 percent) to build leads as large as 25 points in the third quarter. 
"You always want to try to keep the momentum going," Miller said. "We somewhat fell off the carriage in Charlotte. It was good to get back up on the horse." 
Despite hitting 8 of 16 3­pointers. the Pacers had to overcome a shooting barrage by Bucks backup guard Lindsey Hunter, who hit five 3-pointers in the fourth quarter. He hit four in consecutive possessions that cut the deficit to 91-81 with 6:23 to play. Hunter led the Bucks with 21 points. 
Indiana has won five of its last six games to climb back into playoff contention in the Eastern Conference. 
Miller hit 10 of 18 field goals and four of nine 3-pointers. Five Pacers scored in double figures. 
Jalen Rose added 16 points and a career high-tying 12 assists for the Pacers. Jermaine O'Neal and Austin Croshere scored 17 points each, and Zan Tabak had 13. 
Hornets 91, Nets 88 
Jamal Mashburn overcame a horrendous shooting night by scoring 10 of his 23 points over the final 1 :51 to lift the Charlotte Hornets to a victory over the New Jersey Nets. 
It was the Hornets' fifth straight victory and seventh in eight games. 
Masburn shot just 5-for-20 for the game and had only 10 points at the start of the fourth quarter when Charlotte trailed 70-69. 
He continued to miss early in 

the period as the Nets opened 
up an 85-73 lead with 6:58 to 
play. But New Jersey went cold 
from there, scoring just three 
points the rest of the game. 
Mashburn, meanwhile, final­

ly started to hit some shots to 
pull Charlotte back into the 
game. He hit two free throws 
to start an 8-1 run that cut 
New Jersey's lead to 86-81 
with 3:01 to play. He then 
scored the final 10 points of 
the game to rally the Hornets. 
Stephon Marbury missed a 3­

point attempt, Mashburn got 
the rebound and converted at 
the other end with a 17-footer. 
Keith Van Horn then missed 

a 3-pointer, Eddie Hobinson 
got the rebound and passed 
the ball to Mashburn, who was 
fouled by Kenyon Martin. 
Mashburn made both free 
throws to cut it to 86-85 with 
1:27 left. 
Marbury then missed anoth­

er 3, Robinson got the rebound 
and Mashburn hit a turn­
around jumper to put 
Charlotte up 87-86. Marbury 
then missed consecutive 3s 
and Mashburn answered with 
four straight free throws. 
David Wesley led Charlotte 


SlRlay, Mardl 4th 7:ll1J11 
Keenan/Slalfora ChapeJ 
The collection frolt\ the mass will be aSenior Class Donation to the new Community Learning Center 
Ft David S~eidler.; CSC Pr~idi.ng 
"I knew this would be more difficult than when they came to Detroit," Smith said. "This has been very emotional ­that's my old team and my buddies." 
In the meantime, Minnesota focused on the game. The Wolves had lost five of six games and trailed 55-53 at halftime. 
But Detroit went without a field goal for the first 9:11 of the third quarter, as the Wolves went on a 19-2 run to lead 72-57. Garnett and Brandon each scored six points during the run, as the Pistons missed 13 shots in a row. 
"(Coach) Flip (Saunders) tried to get KG (Garnett) and I to pick up the defensive pressure at halftime," Brandon said. "Then we hit some shots and that opened things up." 
Jerry Stackhouse scored 28 points for Detroit, 18 in the fourth quarter.· and Corliss Williamson added 21. 
Magic 97, Suns 91. 

The Orlando Magic are more than just Tracy McGrady. The Phoenix Suns learned that Wednesday night. 
McGrady was held to less than 30 points for just the sec­ond time in seven games, but he nearly had his first career triple-double as the Magic snapped the Suns' four-game winning streak. 
"It's all about trust," McGrady said. "That's what I've been learning throughout this season, being able to trust my teammates and create for others. That's what I was try­ing to do tonight." 
McGrady had 25 points on 10-for-28 shooting with 12 rebounds and eight assists. 
"This is a big win for us because it wasn't a great game by McGrady," Orlando coach Doc Rivers said. "He didn't have his shot early. He hit some big shots at the end. He just stayed in there and was a great decoy at times." 
Mike Miller had 16 points for the Magic. Darrell Armstrong, who had 13 points and 11 assists, scored four crucial points in the final 1 :21 as Orlando won its second consec­utive to finish its four-game road trip 2-2. 
"Back to back wins on the road are very big for us," Rivers said. "We basically come back the same way we left, and that's really impressive." 
Rockets 95, Bulls 78 
Rudy Tomjanovich's fear of the hapless Chicago Bulls was warranted for a little more than a quarter. 
Steve Francis scored 21 points and Hakeem Olajuwon added 17 as the Houston Hockets overcame an early 12­point deficit to beat Chicago. 
"This is one of those games that you're really concerned about as a coach." Tomjanovich said. 
Reserve Kenny Thomas had 14 points and 11 rebounds for the Rockets, who have won five of six and finished February 9­4. 
Elton Brand scored 21 points to lead the Bulls. who have lost five of six. 
Bryce Drew hit three 3-point­ers and dished out four assists in the first quarter as the Bulls broke out to a 29-19 lead. 
"We started out badly, but sometimes that's good," Tomjanovich said. "It got our attention." 
Chicago led by as many 12 before Houston rallied. The Rockets went on a 15-2 run. aided by six quick points from Thomas and a 3-pointer by Walt Williams to grab a 34-33 lead midway through the sec­ond quarter. 
with 26 points, including 13 in the third quarter when Charlotte climbed out of a 14­point deficit. Mashburn added nine assists and eight rebounds. 
Marbury led the Nets with 19 points on 8-of-22 shooting. Van Horn and Johnny Newman scored 15 each, while Martin, Lucious Barris and Aaron Williams added 10 each. 
Raptors 95, Hawks 88 
Vince Carter scored 32 points and Antonio Davis added 18 points and 15 rebounds as the Toronto Raptors beat the Atlanta Hawks. 
The Raptors, who never trailed, won their third straight as Carter topped 30 points for the fifth time in six games. 
One night after his 32 points led Toronto past Cleveland, Carter hit a 12-foot turnaround jumper at the end of the third quarter to keep the Hawks down 75-70. 
Atlanta, which lost its fifth straight, got a pair of free throws from Brevin Knight to close within one point before Carter's lay-in made it 85-82 · with 4:59 remaining. 
The Hawks, who lost for the 12th time in 14 games, trimmed the lead to 90-88 on Jason Terry's 20-foot jumper from the top of the key with 
2:01 remaining. 

Terry led Atlanta with 22 points, and Knight finished with 20. 
76ers 79, Heat 69 
Dikembe Mutombo grabbed 18 rebounds, blocked five shots and altered countless others, more than making up for another poor shooting night from Allen Iverson as the Philadelphia 76ers beat the Miami Heat. 
The tense, defensive-minded game ended with the fans taunting Miami coach Pat Riley, who questioned the Sixers' loyalty a day earlier for their trade of Theo Ratliff for Mutombo. 
The Sixers beat the Heat for the third time this season, and Riley and his big men got a close-up look at what a differ­ence Mutombo can make. Mutombo's presence forced Miami center Brian Grant to shoot 1-for-13 and forward Anthony Mason to go 1-for-8. 
Iverson attempted 27 shots and missed 21 but still finished with 27 points as he went 14­for-18 from the line. Rodney Buford added 16 points and Mutombo had 10. 
Eddie Jones led Miami with 22 points and Tim Hardaway had 20. The rest of the Heat shot a combined 8-for-42. 
Philadelphia snapped a two­game losing streak and avoided its first three-game slide of the season. 
Tlmberwolves 1.11, 
Pistons 100 

The Minnesota Timberwolves might miss Joe Smith. but Wednesday night he was just another opposing player. 
Terrell Brandon scored 23 points and Wally Szczerbiak added 22 as the Timberwolves beat the Detroit Pistons 111­
100. Kevin Garnett had a triple-double with 18 points, 10 rebounds and 10 assists. 

Smith signed with Detroit on Nov. 20 after NBA commission­er David Stern voided his con­tract with the Wolves, for whom he played the past two seasons. Stern ruled Minnesota had circumvented the salary cap by signing Smith to a secret long-term contract before the 1999 season. He has expressed a desire to return to the Timberwolves next season. 
"You always have to have some kind of competitive edge when you play." Garnett said. "But once the game is over, he's the same guy I play against in the summer. I'm just happy he's gotten an opportu­nity somewhere." 
On this night. Smith struggled with a 3-for-15 shooting night and scored only eight points in his first game in Minnesota since leaving the team early in the season. 
--~-----------------------.. 
Thursday, March 1, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
_,-,
NHL 
Berezin scores 20th goal of the season in Toronto win 
200th goal as the New York second-period goals as the opened the scoring with just 11 a franchise record by running 
Associated Press 
Rangers capped an emotion­Rangers extended the lead to seconds left in the first when his points streak to six games filled day, after Theo Fleury 3.0. he beat Penguins goalie Jean• in a row. 
TORONTO entered a substance·abuse McCarthy fired a slap shot Sebastien Aubin to complete a Curtis Joseph made 38 saves 

program, with a victory over from the top of the right circle nice passing play with Oleg Oilers 5, Blues 3 
and Sergei Berezin scored his the Florida Panthers. through the pads of Roberto Petrov. They way they're playing20th goal of the season as the It was announced before the Luongo at 3:30. Nedved, using Aubin made 36 saves, includ­these days, the Edmonton Toronto Maple Leafs beat the game that Fleury, the team's Radek Dvorak as an effective ing one on Canadiens forward Oilers don't mind when thev 
San Jose Sharks 2-1 
leader in goals with 30 and low-slot screen, drilled a wris­Martin Rucinsky's penalty shot allow the tying goal in the Wednesday night. 
points with 74, voluntarily ter from between the circles 4:14 into the second, as third period.
Joseph stopped 22 shots in entered the substance abuse past Luongo at 18:20. Montreal held a 39-28 edge in "Lately, we've been able to the third period alone. He's and behavioral health program Trevor Kidd replaced Luongo shots. get goals when we need them," allowed just five goals in his run jointly by the NHL and the to start the third period. Lemieux had a chance to tie Mike Grier said after scoringlast four starts. 
players association. The 32-Adams ended McLean's bid it on a power play moments the game-winner midwayMike Ricci scored a power­
year-old Fleury is out indefi­for his first shutout at 8:24, a later when he misfired with an through the third period. lead­play goal for the Sharks. who nitely. goal set up by McLean's poor open net after taking a pass ing the Oilers to a victory over 
were without Owen Nolan (sus-
New York also got goals from clearing pass. Dvorak put the from Jagr. the St. Louis Blues. 
pension) and Vincent 
Sandy McCarthy, Petr Nedved Rangers ahead 4-1 at 10:36, That proved costly as Edmonton matched its sea­Damphousse (shoulder and Radek Dvorak to end a and Adams closed out the scor­Campbell added to the son-high with its fourth 
surgery). 
three-game losing streak. The ing with a power-play goal Canadiens' lead with 10:49 straight victory.
Nolan rejoins the Sharks on 1Oth·J)'lace Rangers closed with 49.4 seconds remaining. gone in the second when he "The other teams seem to gel Thursday following an 11-within eight points of the final scored his second of the game, lucky goals to tie it up, but we game suspension for hitting Eastern Conference playoff Canadiens 4, Penguins 2 and eighth of the season. don't seem to get our heads Dallas' Grant Marshall in the spot with only 19 games Jim Campbell and Saku Lemieux earned his 21st down on the bench," added head. remaining. Koivu each scored twice to assist at 16:22 when he set up Grier, who one-timed Ethan Shayne Corson also scored Kirk McLean. substituting for ruin Mario Lemieux's home• Oliwa from behind the net to Moreau's pass under Roman 
the Leafs, 3·1 since a trade for Mike Richter who is out for the coming as the Montreal make it 2·1. Turek at 11:20 of the third to Philadelphia's Eric Lindros foll season with a knee injury, Canadiens beat the Pittsburgh break a 3-3 tie. through last week. turned in a solid performance Penguins. Blue Jackets 5, Coyotes 2 Pierre Turgeon had pulled 
Toronto, distracted by trade with 38 saves. He turned away Lemieux, making his only The Columbus Blue Jackets St. Louis even at 7:49 of the rumors for two months, has 19 in the third period as the ·regular-season appearance in were without their leading third, beating a screened fallen from first in the Eastern Canada in his native Montreal, scorer but it wasn't as if any• Tommy Salo with a fluttering
Panthers tried to muster a 
Conference to seventh since comeback set up Krzystof Oliwa's first one would have noticed. wrist shot from just inside the Lindros told the Flyers he only McLean twice stopped Mike goal of the season 16:22 into Five Blue Jackets scored blue line. wanted to play for his home• Sillinger on second-period the second to draw Pittsburgh goals and Marc Denis retained But Moreau broke through a 
town Leafs. within 2•1. his hot hand at home as the pair of defenders and hit Grier 
breakaways and denied Pavel 
Corson's wrist shot beat Bure with a sliding stop with . Koivu scored his 10th with Blue Jackets beat the Phoenix with a perfect pass from his goalie Steve Shields at 13:49 of less than two minutes remain­7:11 remaining in the third to Coyotes. knees, and Edmonton regained the first. ing. restore the Canadiens' two­Geoff Sanderson, Columbus' the lead. 
Ricci tied it just 46 seconds Greg Adams scored twice for goal lead. top offensive threat with 27 "It was a great individual into the second, sweeping the Florida which ended a road Jaromir Jagr scored his 33rd goals and 51 points, was effort by Ethan on Mike Grier's puck in before being checked trip in which they lost all five goal with 3:10 left as the scratched with a broken fin­goal," Oilers coach Craig 
into Joseph. Penguins again closed within ger. The low•scoring Blue MacTavish said. "It seems like
games.

Berezin collected teammate one before Koivu added his Jackets still had no shortage of there's a pattern starting here.
Leetch, the league's top scor• 
Yanic Perreault's shot off the ing defenseman, staked the second of the game 1 :03 later point producers. We go into the third period up. boards. and put it past Shields Rangers to an early lead with a to send Montreal to its second "We were a little concerned relinquish a goal and battle at 3:44 of the third. power-play goal on a shot from win in as many nights follow­about where the offense would back to win it." 
Last Sunday, the Dallas Stars 
the right point at 6:46 of the ing a six•game losing streak. come from, but a number of Rangers 4, Panthers 2 first period. Campbell, who scored both players got involved and we tied the game 2·2 in the third, 
played a strong game," but Todd Marchant scored the
Brian Leetch scored his McCarthy and Nedved had his goals on the power play, Columbus coach Dave King winner in overtime for said. Edmonton. 
Steve Heinze, David Vyborny, "Every time we win it's going Serge Aubin, Deron Quint and to take a collective effort, a lot Mattias Timander scored for of hard work," said Moreau. "If the Blue Jackets, who won we're going to move up in the their second straight after standings, it's going to take a going winless in seven games. lot of work." 
T. S. E. 
"A bunch of guys stepped up The Oilers, who also won and ·played really well tonight," four in a row from Oct. 11-17 Heinze said. 
and from Oct. 30•Nov. 5, are
Student Government 
Robert Kron had three just one point behind Phoenix assists, Heinze also had an for seventh place in the
proudly presents the volunteer opportunity 
assist and Espen Knutsen tied Western Conference. 
ofa lifetime: 
Introducing the Transportation Se-rvice for the Elderly 
Bruno's Piua 
. 
I I 
Features 

1.) Volunteer work around the student's schedule 
I 
I
All-you-can-eat
2.) No daily, weekly, or monthly commitments 
-· iI 
3.) Volunteer as much or as little as you like 
4.) As little as one hour of service each time you volunteer 5.) Looks great on resumes for graduate schools and 
Buffet 
employers 

(Includes Drink) 
6.) Helps you help others *Pizza Purpose 
*Pasta 
1.) To provide transportation for the elderly people of 
*Salad
South Bend to and from such needed places as doctor's appointments, grocery stores, family emergencies, etc. 
*Other Italian Dishes 2.) To give Notre Dame students a way of reaching out to 
*Parties Welcome
their community. 

Every Thursday at 5 
2610 Prairie Avenue
Please attend an informational meeting on Thursday March 1st, 8:30pm in the Montgomery Theater of LaFun to learn how you can help your community. 
288-3320 

Thursday, March l, 200l
page 24 The Observer . SPORTS 
Hobbins 
continued from page 28 
'Tm deathly afraid of heights," Hobbins said, "but I think the mental and physical training from boxing helped me. It was a total rush. but it was a challenge to make myselr do it." 
Hobbins credits boxing with boosting his confidence in other areas, from job searches to social situations. 
Of course. it's paid off physi­cally. too, for the fighter who made it all the way to the cham­pionship round a year ago where he faced his toughest foe. He lost to junior captain Rob Joyce, a finalist at 175 pounds this year, in last year's finals. 
"Rob had just been pounding people. and he proceeded to pound me," Hobbins said. "I had a feeling it wasn't going to go my way, and it was a matter of making myself keep going and surviving the fight instead of winning it." 
This year, Bobbins, who lost in the semifinals in each of his first two Bengal Bouts, hopes to come out a champion for the first time. Down to 165 pounds. he made his way to the finals Wednesday night with a unani­mous decision over Justin "The ResLifo Regular" Myers. 
Hobbins started out quick and kept delivering punishment to Myers every time Myers came at him. Hobbins stayed patient and let Myers come to him, but made Myers pay when he did move in close. Although Hobbins, who goes by the nickname "Nightmare," tired at the end, he held a clear advantage over his opponent throughout the three rounds. 
To win his first title, Hobbins 
will have to get past Thomas 
"Boom-Boom" Macias, who won 
a unanimous decision over 
Christopher "Can't We All Just Get Along?" Kitalong that saw more flung fists than a bqrroom brawl. Macias' "brawler" style may force Hobbins to change his style. 
'Tm kind of a counter type boxer," Hobbins said. "They come to me instead of me going to them. They step to me, and I just punch them and I leave, and that's the best case scenario. I'm 

going  to  have  to  readjust  
myself."  
Boxing  became a part of  

Hobbins' life by chance. The Minnesota native played soccer all through high school and tried out for his dorm's soccer team freshman year. But after miss­ing a couple practices early on. Hobbins got cut from the team and found himself searching for something to do. 
He found a time-filler in Bengal Bouts after attending club activity night. At first he signed up for the physical work­out boxing would give him, but the club soon meant more than just something to keep him in shape. 
Boxing meant close friend­ships with his teammates, ser­vice to the community through the thousands of dollars Bengal Routs raise for the poor in Bangladesh and a chance to challenge himself on a daily basis. 
Hobbins even turned down an opportunity to study in Italy when former captain Tommy Will called him with the chance to be a team captain. Will's phone call came late in Hobbins' sophomore year, giving him a tough decision to make. 
"I thought, 'This is such a great honor and it's something I'm really starting to like. It's something that's just really starting to take hold of my exis­tence at Notre Dame,'" Hobbins said of his choice. "Italy, not withstanding a natural disaster, will probably be there a couple of years down the road. The dis­cipline and time it takes to be a boxing captain and boxer won't be there as long." 
The American Studies major. who hopes to work with Alliance for Catholic Education next year, passed on the semester abroad in favor of Bengal Bouts. While he'd still like to travel the world, he doesn't regret his decision for a moment. 
"The friendships I've made in Bengal Bouts I think are just as enriching," Hobbins said. 
Just as a title would nicely adorn his boxing career. 

INTERRACE 
Topic: The New Face of America... 
Discussing the census results 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

McGwire extends contract with Cards 
Associated Press 
Mark McGwire and the St. Louis Cardinals have agreed to a two-year extension worth about $30 million. 
The new deal runs through 2003, the season McGwire could be approaching Hank Aaron's home-run record of 755. 
The Cardinals have called a news conference for Thursday at 9 a.m. ET at the club's spring training complex. 
McGwire. 37, missed most of the second half of last season with a knAe injury and had surgery during the offseason, but has been healthy this spring. 
McGwire and the Cardinals were talking about an extension that would pay him $14 million in 2002 and $16 million the fol­lowing year. according to two baseball officials familiar with the negotiations who spoke on the condition they not be identi­lied. 

McGwire negotiated the exten­sion himself with the Cardinals and did not go through his agent, Bob Cohen. 
He is seventh on the career home-run list with 554, just 201 behind Aaron, and would have to average 67 homers in the next three seasons to tie the mark. 
McGwire set the single-season record with 70 homers in 1998, then hit 65 the following year. He hit 32 last se~on in just 236 at-bats. 
With an average salary of about $15 million, McGwire will rank about eighth in baseball. 
He could command far more money if he became a free agent after this season, perhaps even top the average salary record of $25.2 million set by Alex Rodriguez in his $252 million, 10-year contract with Texas, but McGwire has never been inter­ested in obtaining top dollar. 

WHEN: Wednesday, March 7 
WHERE: CSC TIME: 5:30 pm 
Join us for dinner and a discussion! Please RSVP by Monday, March 5 
@1-6841 

Thursday, March I, 200I The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
BASEBALL 
Irish face professional Devil Rays in exhibition game 

By NOAH AMSTADTER Assistant Sports Editor 
Torry Newton, Jr.. is a 12­year-old boy with a Notre Dame connection. 
His uncle, Steve Newton, is the former Sorin Hall Rector. In fact, the first mass Steve celebrated after being ordained was Terry's bap­tism. 
As the young boy grew up in St. Petersburg, Fla., he developed a love for the game of baseball -while still maintaining a dream of some­day returning to his bap­tismal roots in South Bend. 
Little Terry's dreams will come true when he serves as batboy in Notre Dame's con­test today against the major league Tampa Bay Devil Rays in an exhibition game. 
"He only wanted to go to the game," said Terry's father, Terry, Sr. "I surprised him with the batboy situa­tion." 
Both teams plan to use the 
game as a developmental 
tool. The Irish will start 
sophomore righthander 
Peter Ogilve on the mound. 
Ogilve missed his final two 
high school seasons and all of 
last year recovering from a 
back injury. The sophomore 
was rated one of the top 
pitchers in the state of Illinois 
prior to being injured. 
Ogilve will likely only throw 
the first few innings, then giv­
ing way to other second-tier 
pitchers on the Irish roster. 
The Devil Rays likely will 
start such stars as Fred 
McGriff, Vinny Castilla and Gerald Williams. But most of' these players will exit by the third inning, giving way to some of the prospects in the Tampa Bay camp. 
The game marks a preview of the three-day, four.team Devil Ray College Invitational. Florida Atlantic, Western Michigan and South Florida join host Notre Dame in the tournament. 
"This four-game stretch poses a tremendous challenge to our team and we are look• ing to build on our solid start the past two weeks," said Irish head coach Paul Mainieri in a press release. 
Mainieri, who is originally from Florida, .looks forward to playing three quality teams. 
"We appreciate the Devil 
Rays arranging for this exhi­
bition and helping to organize 
what should be an exciting 
college baseball tournament," 
Mainieri said. "Fans who 
come to the games will not be 
disappointed by the competi• 
tiveness and level of play and 
you could see several of these 
kids in the big leagues some 
day." 
The Irish take on Florida 
Atlantic on Friday at 1 p.m., 
with All-American 
righthander Aaron Heilman 
starting. 
Ileilman's classmate, Danny 
Tamayo. takes the ball 
against South Florida 
Saturday at 5 p.m. 
The starter for Sunday's 
finale against Western 
Michigan is currently unde­
cided. 

WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish return to action against No. 11 Wildcats 
By STEVE KEPPEL Sports Editor 
After three days off the Notre Dame women's tennis team is back on the road as it travels to Evanston to face 11th-ranked Northwestern. The Irish are coming off a 3­0 weekend 
"The higher you 're pretty evenly
where they 
matched when 

defeated ranked there's always a 
they take on

Kansas State, 
little more the Wildcats.
BYU and 
The Wildcats

Kansas. The pressure to win." 
come off of a

Irish women 
strong perfor­

are looking to 
Kimberly Guy mance at the
extend their 
senior tennis player National
streak of 14­
straight singles matches won without dropping a set. 
"It was great," said senior Kimberly Guy about the two days without losing a set. "The first day we struggled but we improved after that. We got bet­ter as the weekend went on." 
As the sixth-ranked team in the country, every team is look­ing to knock off the Irish. The Irish experienced their first taste of a team playing above their potential when they narrowly 
squeked by 44th-ranked Kansas State, 4-3. 
"The higher you're ranked there's always a little more pres· sure to win," Guy said. "We know rankings don't always mean much but the higher you are ranked the more people arc out to get you." 
The Irish 
should be 
Indoor 

Championships where they advanced to the semifinals and always play the Irish tough. 
"It's going to be a great match," coach Jay Louderback said. "They are very strong at the top of their lineup but they are also very deep." 
Said Guy: "We play Northwestern every year and they're very good and this year is one of their stronger years. It will be a good match." 
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March 1, 2001 
Belles 
continued from page 28 
With a long history of part-time coaches and losing records, getting successful players to look into the program has been a challenge. Hecruiting needs to be improved. 
For right now, Smith will have to stay focused on the South Bend and Chicago areas. 
"I am from here locally, so I knew the area very well," Smith said. "So we've gotten out the information in the area around the South Bend area. That should help us out." 
As a Division III coach, Smith plans to focus mainly on Midwest states surrounding Indiana, such as Illinois, Michigan, and Ohio, for recruiting. Nationally, she will have to rely on other coaches or alumni contacting her about women wanting to play at Saint Mary's. 
"The best way for Division Ill, I'll hit the Midwest," Smith said. "As far as outside of that [I'll rely on outside contacts!. That's how you get outside." 
In addition to recruiting, Smith will be looking at facili­ties, coaching, and preparation for varsity basketball. 
Saint Mary's has a history that lacks a junior varsity team. With no junior varsity team, students do not have the opportunity to be introduced gradually to playing at a colle­giate level. They're thrown in with the sharks before they get to swim with the guppies. 
Smith hopes to begin a junior varsity program to Saint Mary's next year to eliminate that problem and get students more experience playing col­lege ball. 

Smith is also hoping to have a "more concrete coaching staIT." What that will mean is still unclear, however. 
The athletic department has been looking into finding money in order to hire full time coaches, and this may or may not affect the basketball pro­gram. Regardless. with a junior varsity program in the works, the basketball program will need to have a larger coaching stafT. 
The actual court in Angela is excellent to playing on, accord­ing to Smith. However, locker facilities and training facilities will eventually need to be improved. Again, specifics are unclear and money will play an important role in those needed improvements. 
With a team looking to move along the road to success, Smith is counting on fans to do their part as well. 
"We need to keep improving fans here and the excitement," Smith said. 
Crowds were less than capacity this season. 
Aiming high may require a lot of work, but the work is ready to be done. The journey to success will not be short for the Belles basketball team. but Smith is ready to embark on that journey. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


a .&-= 

Thursday, March 1, 2001 
The Observer . TODAY page 27 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
ONE VOTE  I'M SORRY,  GOSH, IT'b SURE  YUP. LOOKS LIKE  
BUT I CAN'T  8E A SHAME TO  EVERYONE IS  
LET YOU 1>0 CHANGE PAAIETALS,  VOTING IN FAVOQ  
THAT  WOULDN'T IT?/?  OF 1'ARIETAL.SI  

Fox TROT 
DAD, CAN YOU Do THl'S SoN, 
MAN. YOU AND 'l'oUR ONE HoMEWoilK f>l?oSLEM YOU 
STUPID CODE OF ETHICS. FOR ME.? IT'S OR1V1N(;, KNOW 1 
I 
ME. NUTS. CAN'T Do ,4 I THAT, I 
~ 
TOM KEELEY 
WOUl.b 
YOU 
Pl.e:..-se 
BILL AMEND 
YOU MIGHT CLARIFY IT'S NOT 
THAT YOU DoN'T MY :roB § !<NOW HOW TO To f DO IT. 1NTERPRET 
Foll H1M.
1~ 
I 
TYLER

THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 

t,Jtr~il'lo. 'It'::i o.ll 5oare. I.\OV .S-tow:,eo I Jl.6t \ike. nervous? 
pro wre.)tlil\<?,· 
\. ~.........--=--)
s:i re,y,usun~? 
'°4elp Y'\& I, '-.!... V 
l.t'S re..:i-1\ I t Bro~ klon£$... utrerite. 1)Q111,..­

EUGENIA LAST 

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
THURSDAY, MARCH 1, 2001

ACROSS 28 Bring up 52 Paradise with 1 Actor Green of 29" out?" shortcomings? CELEBRITIES BORN ON career. It is wise to sit back and "Buffy the (dealer's query) 54 Wind instrument THIS DAY: Dinah Shore, Ron observe those around you. 00 
Howard, Harry Belafonte, Ralph VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
Vampire Slayer" 30 Actress Hurley, 55 Serve 
Ellison, Alan Thicke, Timothy You can learn a lot if you listen to
5 Chicken order for short 56 "Later, gator!" 
Daly, Roger Daltrey, Mark-Paul the words of those who are expe­
10 'Bury the Dead" 33 Urge 
57 One in custody Gosselaar rienced in your field. Take time to playwright 34 "Personal Happy Birthday: The oppor-. plan your actions. You need to be
58 Nez_ War of 

14 Soothing color Injuries" author tunities will be there this year, positive that you are headed in
1877 15 Football 
Scott but if you're caught up in emo­the right direction. 00000
59 Title girl of a 

tional matters, you may miss out LIBRA (Sept 23-0ct. 22): You
commentator 36 Pet name 
1918 hit song Try to keep your personal and can beautify your surroundings
_Long 37 "Shame on 
professional life separate and by renovating or redecorating.
16 Long green you!" 
you'll do just fine. Your ability to If you find that your plans will
DOWN

17 Expose of a 38 "Don't you just complete what you start is a plus. cost more than you had wanted
1 Pink-slip

lithographer's it when ...?" If you can present your ideas to spend, try to do the work bad hangouts? 39 Biblical miracle• 2 Prefix with lateral wiih confidence, you'll be headed yourself. 000 3 Part of driving to the main event. Your numbers: SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):
20 Word repeated maker 
12, 16, 20, 35, 44, 47 You may be led astray if you lis­
directions

in •_always 40 Book subtitled 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): ten to a big talker today. Do a lit­
begets_•: "Cowgirl 4 Ready money 
You should extend a helping tle research before getting
Sophocles Evans's Favorite 5 Finis 
hand to friends or relatives hav­involved in a financial venture 21 ·vamoose!" Desserts"? 6 Played (around) ing trouble updating their person­that may be risky. 00 22 Supporter 43 Dispositions al investments or papers. Your SAGITIARIUS (Ncni: 22-Dec 21):
7 ""-;-saying 

kind gesture will be handsomely Be careful. You may feel like
23 Boils down 46 Give up 
rewarded. 000 eating hot spicy foods, but be
24 Old Clara-47 Malia code of 
8 Bermuda · TAURUS (April 20-May 20): prepared to pay the price if youClarence silence highball' Don't let dilemmas in your per­lack moderation. Spend time romance? 48 Polish sausage ingredient sonal life get you too worked up. catching up. 000 
9 Common 

Try to make arrangements to CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan.19): spend some time with your mate Look for activities that will please
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE property 
to clear up any misunderstandings your whole family. Organize
boundary 

you might have. 00 social functions or gatherin~s.
Puzzle by Manny Nosowaky
B E E F Y D E B T L A K E 10 Way to get to 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You need to get back to basics A D E L A A R L O O X E N the top 27 Cao da Serra 40 Like a 45 "Coffee, _ Your emotional attitude toward and family values. 00000 L I L A C R E I 11 Disorder de _ (dog boomerang Me?" colleagues may lack professional­AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): ism. Don't become involved in You are likely to jump from the 
I T 12 Northerner breed) 41 Like sour grapes 48 Wood blemish 

legal battles concerning the per· frying pan into the fire if you
13 Bridge positions 30 Money in the 42 Pester 49 Bellini work 
sonal lives of others. 000 make a move today. Someone
banca
L 18 Poppycockish 43 With zero 50 Right away CANCER (June 21-July 22): may not be thinking of your best 
31 Pagoda sight 
Your discipline will pay off. Make interests. Don't be too hard on
i.;A~~~ i-;;+.;.&.;,;+;;~ 19 Better Homes chance 51 Call to a mate 
L ~~.+-+..~ and Gardens 32 Basketball sure you listen carefully to others' your partner. 00 
44 Life on a slide 53 Fifth, e.g.: Abbr.
A _ _._..._ concern defense thoughts, The insight obtained PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): will be far more beneficial than Getting out with friends will be
34 Rest
23 Villain at Crab you imagine. 0000 half the battle. You can meet an 
Key 35 Western Indians Answers to any three clues in this puzzle LEO (July 23-Aug, 22): Sud­ideal mate if you're willing to 24 Subject of 36 Prepare to pass, are available by touch-tone phone: den changes regarding friends become involved in organization• Elizabeth maybe 1-900-420·5656 (95¢ per minute). will puzzle those close to you. al events. Don't hesitate to make 
Don't act in haste; think twice a move if someone interests you.
25 Stable diet? 38 Poker Flat Annual subscriptions are available for the 
before you make decisions. Don't Act on your first instincts, 000
26 Part of a chronicler best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
take unnecessary risks with your 

B E E N I O P E A cigarette lighter 39 Mix up years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Birthday Baby: High energy and curiosity can lead you in many directions. You have tlie need to explore and won't think twice about checking something out without asking first. You are an adventurer who will always have agreat story to tell. (Need advice? C1ed; out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice,com, 


eugenialastcom, astromate.com.) 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
<02001 ViuvasolP=>Syndicate 

Get Your Notre Dame Hockey Posters Autographed After the Game 
ALEX WILSONLt. IN t:auu Recelvo a 
INVITATIONAL • H•ckey "8ychal11 
Friday/Saturday 
March 2-3

Chance for 50 Fans to Win a 
Blue ND Bean Bag Bearl! 
6 pm/ 10:30 am 
Notre Dame
Win Taco~s for your II) 
vs.

entire 5ection! ~~8 
Penn

1st 100 Students 
Sunday, March 4,
Receive Free Pizza 
12pm 








ADream Come True 

Twelve-year old Terry Newton Jr. 's dream to see the Irish baseball team in action will come true as he acts as batboy in today's game against the
PORTS 
Tampa Bay Devil Rays 
page 25 
f'"\lHE
page 28 
VfiSERVER 
BENGAL BOUTS 

Hobbins emphasizes mental aspects of boxing 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Associate Sports Editor 
For Brian Hobbins, physical strength has little to do with boxing. 
The senior boxing club captain and team president contends that winning a bout depends on te'chnique -who has the best strategy for luring his opponent in, whose tactics can outmaneu­ver the other fighter. 
"It's almost more like chess than boxing for me." said Hobbins, a 165-pounder. 
Stepping into the ring also lets Hobbins know he passed the gut check, the one that tested his mental resolve to fight. 
"It's totally mental," Hobbins said. "Facing your fears and your doubts." 
Four years in the Notre Dame Boxing Club have helped Hobbins stare down his fears. The physical beating Hobbins has been taking in six-day-a­week Boxing Club practices and spars prepared him to do more than just fight tough opponents. It also prepared him for life. 
Hobbins used his Bengal Bouts experiences to battle through a fear of heights last spring. He, fellow captain Peter Ryan and several other friends traveled to West Virginia following Senior Week to go cliff climbing and white water rafting. Without his in-the-ring tests to steel his courage, Hobbins doubts he would have had the nerve to go through with the climb. 
see HOBBINS/page 24 


Newburg adds to winning legacy with victory 
... 
tricks in the third. The taller Rueda used his split decision over Ryan "The By KEVIN BERCH OU "I came out aggressive in slight reach advantage Quiet Man" Duffey. Sports Writer the first,'" Newburg said. expertly, and each time Bravo In a bout highlighted by 
"Then in the second, I wanted ducked inside he was met brilliant flurries from both 
In winning the 125-pound to save something, so I was a with a staggering right hand. combatants. llallowell hit weight division as a freshman bit more technical." "That's all experience," Duffey with a right in the last year, Shawn "Old Dog, Steinbach, trying to capital­Rueda said. ''I've been doing third round that drew blood, New Tricks" Newburg estab­ize on his opponents more this for four years so l have a forcing him to retreat to his lished himself as a dominant casual second round style, pretty good idea of what to corner. 
..... ..
fighter in the ring. made his run only to be d0. Hallowell thought that was 
Wednesday night, in his rebuked by Newburg's defen­when the fight changed in his 2001 debut in the 130-pound sive skill. 135 Pounds favor. division, Newburg only added "I thought I blocked well," Tony Hollowell was never "It was pretty even, I to his legacy -scoring a Newburg said. "I saved ener­even supposed to be here. thought, until that point," he unanimous decision victory gy in the second so I had Few gave him a shot at upset­said. "He fought an awesome over Tom "Gun" Steinbach. plenty left to use my power in ting top seed Matt Fumagalli fight and I just feel lucky to 
In a fight that went just as the third." in Monday's quarterfinals, but go to the Big Dance." 
he wanted it to, Newburg was On the other side of the that's just what he did. Hallowell's dance partner 
able to dictate the pace for 130-pound bracket. the expe­Wednesday the freshman Friday night will be sopho­
the first two rounds before rienced Camilo Rueda outdu­sensation was impressive more Joshua Coleman, who 
unleashing a bag of new eled junior Derrick Bravo. again in gaining a grueling 
see BOUTS/pagel8 
Thursday, March 1, 2001 
Smith sets 
goals for 
next year 

The season is over. The team finished with a record of 8-18. Now what? 
With one s·Hason under her belt, Saint Mary's head basket­ball coach Suzanne Smith has some deci­sions to make. She needs to move hr.r team. 
Doubling the number of wins the team had last season seems to be one step in the right direction. 
But what is the next step? Where is this team going and what is the next mile marker on that path? 
So. what is the destination? Well, better MIM play for one. The Belles won only two con­ference games this season after starting oIT the season with six victories in nine games. Staying focused and unified seemed to be a problem for Saint Mary's following a break at Christmas. Smith is hoping to fix that prob­lem next year. 
"I think we can do very well in our conference," Smith said. "What do we need to do is com­pete in the conference -be prepared for the long season." 
Step one to better play is working with this year's team. Smith called a meeting to dis­cuss this past season and next season with her team. 
"We just graduated one senior !Julie Norman]." Smith said. "If things go right every­one should come back." 
With most of her team returning next soason, Smith should have a step-up on this year's start. Smitl_1 didn't meet her team until August of this year. 
"It's so nice right now," she said. "We can get together in the post season and throughout the summer and have a better idea of what we're doing ­have some consistency." 
That seems to be good for the short term. But what about the long term? What is Saint Mary's doing to improve the team for the long haul? 
There arc several things that the team has been lacking. 

see BELLES/page 26 
Men's Lacrosse 
Softball

at Northwestern 
vs. Penn

at Jacksonville State Today, 3 p.m. 
SPORTS 
Sunday, noon 

ATA 
Friday, 2 p.m. vs. Georgetown
Baseball 
at Western Michigan vs. Tampa Bay Devil Rays Sunday, 2 p.m. 
Friday, 7:30 p.m. 
',. ~ 
Today, l p.m.
GLANCE ., •• 







