
Come on down...You're a millionaire 
Thoughts of a parent post-JPW
Obsessed with winning a radio, a vacation or a 
JPW already passed and midterms loom over the 
Wednesday

million dollars, audiences since the 192o's have 
campus, but one mom realizes what Notre Dame 
gathered to watch game shows. 
is really about. 
MARCH 7,

viewpoint . page 8
scene . page 10-11 
2001 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO.102 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Notre Dame announces commitment to WRC 
Friday and did not expect him to make group due to a lack of information. unacceptable labor practices."
By JASON McFARLEY a determination until Wednesday. Nearly a year later, University officials "It is our hope that a partnership
Assistant News Editor 
On Tuesday. task force member said they between the WRC and Notre Brian O'Donoghue expressed satisfac­have eased Dame will improve conditions for At the urging of the task force on tion with Malloy's decision to join the at least workers while helping to focus
..IfI have one concern
anti-sweatshop initiatives. University 
watchdog organization. s o m e attention on this importantPresident Father Edward Malloy 'Tm ecstatic that Notre Dame is join-qualms about ljoining the WRCJ. issue," Hoye wrote. 
a n n o u n c e d 
ing the WRC,., said about join­it·s the way the decision On Tuesday Hoye was pleased
Tuesday that Notre 
O'Donoghue, student ing the was handled -with with Malloy's acceptance of the Dame will become "This represents an body president. "This WRC. task force's recommendation,the 74th school to represents an important In a letter minimal student saying it demonstrated the
important social justice 
join the Workers social justice action on to Scott representation on the University president's confidence Rights Consortium. action on behalfofthe behalf of the University." Nova, WRC taskforce. ·· in the body.
The decision fol­University. " The WRC was created executive But perhaps no one was more lows almost a year last year by anti-sweat­director, pleased with Tuesday'sof task force work shop activists to improve task force Amanda Hughes announcement than members of on the issue and a Brian O'Donoghue working conditions and chair Bill PSA member Notre Dame's Progressivemajor anti-sweat­student body president empower laborers. Hoye wrote, Student Alliance, who over the shop campaign by Saint Mary's joined the "[The course of the past year have cre­student activists. WRC last April, shortly University is joining the WRC] in light ated a big push for University member-The task force offered its then-confi­after the University announced that it of our shared commitment and our col­dential recommendation to Malloy on would not seek membership in the lective experience in the fight against see WRC/page 4 
NOTRE DAME -WRC TIMELINE 
Created  Task force on  
code of  anti-sweatshop  
Conduct  initiatives  

Fall Spring

1007 1999 
Required

Requested that Joined Fair Labor PSA held rally 
disclosure of

corporations disclose Assoc., ND opted to urge ND 
factory addresses 

factorty locations 
Fall 
1999 


Diversity Board's accomplishments in question 
By MYRA McGRIFF 
Nev.s Writer 
As elections for the Student Diversity Board approach, the Board's accomplishments are in the spotlight. 
The Student Diversity Board set out to bring a cul­tural awareness on campus when it began in the fall of 2000, but people on campus have different ideas as to whether the Board accomplished as much as it could have and what it needs to do in the future. 
"Through co-sponsorship, doing events we want to educate people. to tell them that there is more to Saint Mary's campus," said Akmaral Omarova. presi­dent of the Student Diversity Board. 
But some students believe the Board has not been educating people on Saint Mary's campus. They do not see the Board focusing on the cultural issues and broadening how students view each other. 
"They focus on other issues but seem to be ignor­ing the racial part that is already here. I see mem­bers of the Board on campus that pass me and still don't talk to me," said Deon Thompson, member of Sisters of Nefertiti. 
Some of the Board's events, such as last semester's Thanksgiving cultural potluck dinner, never came to fruition, once again making it more difficult to edu­cate people about the unique makeup of Saint Mary's campus. 
"\Ve gathered all the recipes for the event and at the last minute the dining hall decided not to make­them. They didn't think students would want to eat 
see DIVERSITY/page 6 

not to join WRC to join WRC
by licensees 

Spring Fall Feb.22, 
200J 200) 2001 
Task Force makes recmmendation to President Malloy 
March 2, 
2001 
ND 
JOinS WRC 
March 6, 
2001 

KATIE McKENNIVThe Observer 
Higher pay leads students off-campus 
By ERIN LaRUFFA 
News Writer 
While many of their peers are working at places like the Huddle Mart or Hesburgh Library. some Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students choose to venture out into the South Bend job market. 
For some, income from off-campus jobs is an important supplement to financial aid. 
Notre Dame sophomore Shana Blair -who receives about $15,000 in scholarships, while the rest of her tuition comes in the form of loans -works at Colorado Steakhouse to cover additional expenses. Blair used to have an on­campus job at the library, but actually makes more money as a waitress. 
"I need to use that money for every day expenses," said Blair. "I couldn't work enough hours at the library." 
However, money stu­dents earn at off-campus jobs can hurt them when they apply for financial aid, a process they must go through yearly. 
Cortney Swift, who works in the Office of Financial Aid as coordinator of the Student Employment Office, explained that there are two types of financial aid. With one form. money comes from Notre Dame, while the other form is work-study aid that is par­tially federally funded. 
No matter what type of aid a student receives, total financial aid ­including loans, scholar­ships, grants and work­study -cannot exceed a certain amount per stu­dent, Swift said. That amount is based on tuition, room and board, books and supplies, expenses and transportation costs. Although the actual amount differs somewhat among students, the aver­age maximum amount this year for a Notre Dame stu­dent is $31,600, according to Swift. 
Money earned at an off­campus job is not counted as part of a student's financial aid, and therefore is not included when figur­ing out the maximum aid a student receives. However, that income does show up on the student's FAFSA application for the follow­ing year. Swift said. 
see JOBS/page 6 


TONY FLOYD/ The Observer 
Lula's is the site of Yasemin Gadelhak's off-campus job. Gadelhak decided to get a job to help cover liv­ing expenses when she moved off campus. 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, March 7, 2001 
INSIDE COLUMN 

-who's at your table? 

When you visualize Christ's Last Supper with the apostles, what does Christ and the apostles look like? 
For Renee Cox, an African-American artist, she visualized Christ at the Last Supper as a nude 
black woman. Apparently, this is unacceptable to some individuals Nnamely the New York City Mayor Rudolph Giuliani. 
And how did Giuliani describe the work by Cox entitled "Yo Mama's Last Supper" which was displayed at the Brooklyn Museum of Art? His take on the artwork was, "disgusting," "anti­Catholic" and "outrageous." He also proposed setting up a committee to set "stan­dards of decency" to regulate what kind of work is dis­played at museums receiving public funds. 
Giuliani and the rest of the individuals who are in an uproar over Cox's work are entitled to their opinion, but I think that anti-Catholicism is not at the root of their protests over Cox's nude black Christ. This is misogyny in full force and is indica­tive of the anti-woman discourse that pervades our society. The anti-Catholicism complaint is an attempt to disguise the sexism in these com­ments. 
When I heard Giuliani's comments over the art­work. I was confused at why he chose to label the work "anti-Catholic." I've always been taught that Christ looks like whatever I want Her to look like. For me, Christ is a woman because I can relate best to that image. Christ is routinely por­trayed in primarily black churches as being black. 
Interestingly enough, according to an article in The New York Times, a work that portrayed Christ at the Last Supper that was exhibited earli­er at the same museum (the Brooklyn Museum of Art) did not raise the ire of Giuliani nor garner any sort of comment. Perhaps then it is the race of the Christ figure in Cox's work that bothered Giuliani. 
Whether it is the race, sex, or perhaps both of Cox's image of Christ that disturbs Giuliani, it is clear that he and others upset over Cox's work are threatened because the image of Christ as a black woman challenges the white-male dis­course that dominates Catholicism. 
It's sad that Giuliani cannot see or fathom thinking of Christ as anything other than a white male. Although if he is best able to relate to Christ as a white male, that is his prerogative. However, he should not then call a woman's art­work "outrageous" "disgusting" and "anti­Catholic" when she chooses to visualize Christ as anything other than a white male. As for the "standards of decency" committee that Giuliani wishes to put in place, whose standards will these be? According to Giuliani's standards, Cox's work would not make the cut. Why is it that a nude black woman portrayed as Christ is indecent? 
A news flash for Giuliani: White men do not 
have the monopoly and final say on how people 
choose to visualize Christ. 
When I think of who is at the table in my vision 
of the Last Supper with Christ, I embrace the idea 
of Christ as a woman. And I am sure that She 
would welcome Giuliani and any others at Her 
table. If the Church truly strives to be inclusive, 
then Christ -whether male or female, and of 
any race -should be welcomed. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Maribel Morey Laura Kelly Nicole Haddad Graphics 
Finn Pressly Katie McKenna Sports Production 
Molly McVoy Kacie McVoy Viewpoint Lab Tech Lauren Beck Tony Floyd 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is publi!ihcd Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a mt'mber of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are rc~rvcd. 
. 
. 
. 
.,.\·.·· ~--·;;r . f.·~'

~~-"· . : 
' .. ·-.-~.·<•''""i... ' .< ·.-::.: ·.,, 
Colleen McCarthy 
Associate News Editor 

THIS WEEK IN SOUTH BEND 
Wednesday  Thursday  
. Event: Regional Museum  . Event: Tennis, Notre  
Student/Faculty show,  Dame men vs Michigan,  
South Bend Regional  Eck Tennis Pavilion, 4 p.m.  
Museum of Art.  . Lecture: "U.s.  
. Event Hesburgh Award  Antidumping Petitions and  
for Business Ethics presented  the threat of Retaliation,"  
to Daniel Kelly, Jordan  Room C·103, Hesburgh  
Auditorium, 4 p.m.  Center, 4:15 p.m.  

OUTSIDE THE DOME Compiled from U-Wire reports 


Syracuse students not invited to Clinton's speech 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. 
Room 4-201 in the Center for Science and Technology had all the familiar surroundings of a Syracuse University classroom. 
An overhead projector stood in a front corner, rows of chairs lined the floor and a wipe-board covered the front wall in the room where Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton spoke Friday about the upstate economy. 
But no students filled this room -they were not invited to Clinton's first visit to Syracuse University after her election. 
"There was a lot of people on campus who worked really hard to get her elected," said Ben Riemer, SU Student Association president. "We were really well connected to the local Hillary campaign." 
STANFORD UNIVERSITY 
Student makes E. coli breakthrough 
STANFORD, Calif. 

Production of penicillin alternative erythromycin has just become quicker and cheaper, thanks to the work of Blaine Pfeifer. a doctoral student in the Chemical Engineeering Department at Stanford University. Pfeifer's research was published in an article in the March 2 issue of Science Magazine. Pfeifer, who is working in the lab of Professor Chaitan Khosla, was able to genetically engineer Escherichia coli bacteria to mass produce the antibi• otic by replacing E. coli genes with genetic material from other bacteria. Pfeifer was assisted by postdoc­toral researcher Suzanne Admiraal. Erythromycin is naturally produced by soil bacteria, Saccharopolyspora erythraea, to inhibit nearby bac­teria strains that may compete for resources. The process lacks speed because the S. erythraea popu­lations grow slowly, only doubling every four hours. By contrast. E. coli populations can double in just 20 minutes. 

LOCAL WEATHER 
S Day South Bend Forecast 

AccuWeather 41 forecast for daytime conditions and hi~h temoeratures 
H  L  
Thursday  Q.  39  23  
·:­ ·:·  
Friday  e 34  22  
Saturday  ~  42  27  
Sunday  ~ ··.:,-· ..::·  45  31  
Monday  ~  49  36  

~/)_ 4.Q.Q (f ~ c::1
-----~­

Showers T--storms Rain Rurries S~ Ice Sunny Pt. CIO!Kly Cloudy 
Via Auoc:iattld Preu GraphiQ,Net 


Riemer. the former president of the College Democrats, added that he heavily campaigned in Syracuse for Clinton last semester. 
Though the topic of the press conference was economic develop­ment, Riemer, a junior policy stud-
Friday 
. Event: The Stanley Clark School's Kaleidoscope 2001, Century Center, 
. 6p.m. 
. Event: 18th Annual IUSB Job Fair, Century Center, 10 a.m.-3 p.m. 

OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY 
Vandals graffiti president's house 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 
Ohio State University administrators were surprised 
as they prepared for work Monday morning. Both 
Bricker Hall and the home of Ohio State President 
William "Brit" Kirwan had graffiti sprayed across 
them, protesting a research project at OSU. Painted 
slogans covered the exterior walls of Bricker Hall, 
which houses the university's administrative offices, 
including Kirwan's office. Vandals also glued the locks 
of the building shut. "There is no way we can tell 
exactly what [the graffiti] means, but it's probably 
referring to ongoing research," Earle Holland, OSU 
spokesman. "Ask Dr. Y Why, Stop the Killing, 
OSU=Profits Over Pain, Stop Killing Cats and 
Cat+Meth=Bad Science" were displayed in large red 
letters covering all four sides of Bricker Hall. "Dr. Y" 
refers to Dr. William Yonushonis, director of laboratory 
animal resources, who has spoken in favor of animal 
testing in research projects conducted at the College of 
Veterinary Medicine. 

NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeathere forecast for noon,Wednesday, March 7. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
·~·r--..---------,--,-'\._ 
FRONTS: ......,. ....... . -T5 

0 2001 AccuWNU-, Inc. COl..0 WARM STATIONARY 
,
® ~; © D D High Low Showen Rain T-atormo FlurrlN Snow k:e sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 

ies and economics major, said stu­dents could have benefited from hearing the former first lady speak. 
"The issue is something that affects SU students currently and in the future," said Tim Schlittner, College Democrats president. "It is preposterous." 
Schlittner, a sophomore politcal science major. said he plans to complain about the exclusion of students from Clinton's speech to the event's organizers, including those on campus. 
But a university spokeswoman said the event was not meant for a student audience. 
"It was a very focused thing," said Judy Holmes, who helped organize the event. 
Saturday 
. 
Event: South Bend Symphony, Morris Performing Arts Center. 8 p.m. 

. 
Event: Tennis, Notre Dame women vs Michigan, Eck Tennis Pavilion, 11 a.m. 



lllo--Mdf>r9u  
Atianta  56  34  Las Vegas  62  49  Portland  63  42  
Baltimore  39  25  Memphis  58  36  Sacramento  72  46  
Boston  37  28  Milwaukee  37  24  St Louis  51  28  
Chicago  39  25  New York  38  28  Tampa  63  46  
Houston  72  57  Philadelphia  39  27  Washington, DC 41  30  

Wednesday, March 7, 2001 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




Police find alum football player stabbed in burning home 
By MARIBEL MOREY Assistant News Editor 
As a football player at Notre Dame in the late l 940s, Richard Cotter was a hot commodity. "He was quiet and modest and according to all the women the best looking. All the Saint Mary's girls flocked him," said Terence Meany, law partner and friend since the first grade. 
After graduating from Notre Dame, he led a quiet life as a pilot and then later as a law partner and father of 10. 
Now 60 years later, Cotter and his friend, Mary McIntyre were found murdered in 
his Austin, Minnesota home Feb. l 7. 
Stacey Cotter, one of Cotter's adopted sons, has been charged with the killings. 
"Stacey had been involved in other criminal 

acts," Terese Amazi, 
Cotter

Austin chief deputy sher­iff. "Family members are the ones who put us on to him from the very beginning." 
Stacey currently refuses to talk to law enforcement, while the police plans to get him on for first degree murder, said Amazi. 
"There are several [of the children] who've had brushes with law enforce­ment, but he's had the most extensive criminal record," said Amazi. "He is convicted of wrongful imprisonment [kidnapping] and he's a registered sex­offender." 
Under Minnessota law, sex offenders must report all their daily activities at all times, but there might have been 
Ain-A That Good News! 
The University of Notre Dame Welcomes 
Tuesday, March 20, 2001 
8:00 p.m. 
Washington Hall Free Admission 

lapses, said Amazi. The prosecutors might be using this point in their inves­tigations. 
Mower County Sherriff Bary Simonson said both 73 year-old Cottter and his longtime friend McIntyre, 68, died of "homicidal violence." Authorities believe the fire that destroyed the home was likely set to cover up evidence. 
Simonson said it appears the fire was intentionally set and might have burned for an hour or two before neighbor Tom Branden called 911 at 5:14 a.m. 
Reports from medical examiners in 
Ramsey County indicate Cotter 
was stabbed to death; however, "they can't determine what caused the death because of the bad con­dition of her body [due to the fire]." said Amazi. 
McIntire was visiting Cotter to help him with his recooperation after a hip replacement surgery in 
December. She was there to help 
him out, said Amazi. 

Cotter and his ex-wife divorced years after raising five adopted children and five children of their own. 
After graduation from Notre Dame in 1951, Cotter returned home to Austin, Minnesota and reunited with old friends. Meany and Cotter continued on to the military. "We started first grade and went to law school together. In the military we were briefly separated because Dick was a pilot," Meany said. 
After the military, Meany and Cotter joined to form their own law firm. Cotter had been an attorney in the Austin area for 40 years, but retired four years ago. "He was still somewhat active as a personal representative for probate matters," said Meany. 

Cotter was actually still working a day before he was found dead..., saw him [in the office] the day before he was murdered. He came into the office and he was talking how well he was doing with his artificial hip he had replaced," said Meany. 
But Meany stresses that Cotter was a quiet man and preferred to be at home rather than socializing and playing golf. 
"While I spent a large part of my life with Dick, he was very quiet," Meany said. "He was a good friend, a goo~ partner and he took care of his family." 
In Notre Dame, Cotter was a reserve halfback/fullback who earned three monograms, one each in 1948, 1949 and 1950. He carried 16 times for 64 yards for the 1949 national champi­onship team, said John Heisler, assis­tant athletic director. "He was also a four-time finalst in the Bengal Bouts." 
The case is still under investigation, and Amazi stresses that it is up to Stacey whether the trial will drag on. "Right now it's up to Stacey if he wants to talk," Amazi said. 
FOR INFORMATION, CONTACT: 

Chandra J. Johnson, Assistant to the President E-mail: johnson.101@nd.edu Phone: (219) 631-3748 
SPONSORS INCLUDE: Department of African and African American Studies, Campus Ministry, Multicultural Student Programs and Services, Department of Mu!.ic, Office of the President, Student Activities, Multicultural Affairs-Saint Mary's College, First A.M.E. Zion Church, Grace A.M.E. Zion Church 
Wednesday, March 7, 2001
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
"The task force will continue 
to exist, and the University will maintain its work on issues of continued from page 1 fair labor," Hoye said. 
The University's member­ship in the WRC is contingentship in the WRC. on its contributing 1 percent of Most recently. the PSA orga­its licensing revenue to the nized a Feb. 22 rally on the group. Hoye said historically
Fieldhouse Mall. Organizers of 
WRC 
Notre Dame ranks nationallythe event collected more than among the top two schools in 
400 signatures on a petition generating licensing revenue. encouraging the University to Notre Dame has a history of 
join the WRC. taking an activist stance on Leafleting, chalking and indi­
anti-sweatshop matters. vidual conferences with task In 1997, the University creat­force members have also been ed a code of conduct regulating 
part of their activist campaign, the production of Notre Dame said PSA member Amanda apparel and goods and 18 Hughes. Hughes called Notre months later formed the task 
Dame's  force  on  anti­ 
joining the WRC a  "IfI have one concern  sweatshop ini­tiatives.  
major step  about [joining the WRCJ,  In late 1999,  
forward for  it's the way the decision  the University  
t h e University.  was handled ­ with  requested that manufacturers  
''I'm real­ minimal student  of its  school­ 
ly  excited  representation on the  logo merchan­ 
about [the decision]."  task force.··  dise their  disclose factory  
Hughes  locations. Last  
said. "This  Amanda Hughes  August  it  
is  major  PSA member  required disclo­ 

progress for N o t r e Dame." 
But while Hughes expressed no reservations about WRC membership, both Hoye and O'Donoghue said their enthusi­asm about joining the still­fledgling organization comes with some concerns. 
Hoye said the WRC's com­

plaint-based policy of monitor­
ing factories potentially allows 
many sweatshop labor prob­
lems to go unchecked. He also 
voiced concerns about univer­
sities comprising a majority of 
the WRC's membership but 
only a third of the presence on 
the board of directors. 
O'Donoghue raised other 

doubts. 
"I have very serious issues 

with the WRC. There are some 
questionable things about the 
group that still concern me," 
O'Donoghue said, calling the 
WRC decision "a huge leap of 
faith" despite his task force 
vote in favor of joining the con­
sortium. 
O'Donoghue said he doesn't 

foresee WRC membership fur­
thering the University's anti­
sweatshop initiatives but 
rather Notre Dame advancing 
the WRC's global impact. 
In his letter to the WRC and 

on Tuesday, Hoye said the 
University would review annu­
ally its affiliation with the 
group as well as continue to 
pursue its own anti-sweatshop 
initiatives. 
sure of factory 

addresses by its licensees. 
Notre Dame is currently co­chairs the university advisory council of the watchdog Fair Labor Association (FLA) and continues to study living wage issues in the United States and abroad. 
The University is now estab­lishing a regional watchdog committee for Mexican and Central American factories, making it the only college in the country to have its own monitoring system. 
In June, Notre Dame will also 

become the first university to 
prohibit the manufacture of 
products sporting the Notre 
Dame insignia in countries that 
ban worker's rights to organize 
or form unions. That includes 
China, the second leading 
manufacturer (behind the 
United States) of Notre Dame 
goods. 
Hughes praised the WRC 

decision and other anti-sweat­
sho p efforts but called for 
additional student input on 
future endeavors. 
"If I have one concern about 

Uoining the WRCJ. it's the way 
the decision was handled ­
with minimal student repre­
sentation on the task force," 
Hughes said. 
She said the PSA is willing to 

work with other student orga­
nizations and University offi­
cials on current and upcoming 
anti-sweatshop projects. 


Sfte~SJ?rlu 
C 

In
c:n 
f ·­
ji ; 

Art ~AndO\tldlm 


Ii 10 
The ~rttnentofArt,Art HJstory ai,d Design 
is pleased to announce itll annual COD\pttit:ion 
fo, th• Rilty Priu in A.rt History & Criticism.
! c' 
Curtent Notre Dame undugra.du1tt-and
Cl
.... 
graduate •tudet\b are invited to 1ubmit essays 
en 
onMy topicIn the hiitoc-y ol art or utoitic:ism
·­
fox ~nsidtration it\ the competition. Essavs
= 
must deal with tht visual aiU. They m.y have
t: 
cc 
been writteri in conjunction With• cowwtaketl
.. 
it the University, but need not han been.
t: 
cc 
tt­
c 
Rulet govemiJlg che competition~avaU.ble
.., 
U\ tlw Art Department Office. lwo C'OJ)• of
C 
the ,ubmission musi bt' delivered to the Art
Q) 
Departmmt Offl('e, 132 O'Shaughnetey H.11,
E 
by 3:00 PM, MOt'\day, March 26, to~ •ligible.
.. 
A student may only ,ubmit ONE entry. 
-
ftl 
A 
ll 
Cl 


Undergraduate members ofthe gay, lesbian, and bisexual community are invited to apply for membership on the 

Standing Committee for Gay and Lesbian Student Needs. 
Applications are now available in the Office of Student Affairs (316 Main Building) or on the Standing Committee web site: 

httn://www.nd.edu/...,scglsn/ 
Applications are due by 5:00 p.m. on Friday, March 23, 2001, and can be submitted at the Office ofStudent Affairs. 
Please visit our web site for more information. 

MONDAY, MARCH 19, 2001 · 4:15 P.M. 
Margaret Hebblethwaite 
Women in the Gospels 
. 
TUESDAY, MARCH 20, 2001 


6:15 P.M. 7:00 P.M. 
PRAYER SERVICE LECTURE 

MARGARET HEBBlETHWAITE 

ROMERO OF THE AMERICAS: 

SEEN THROUGH PARAGUAYAN EYES 

Both lectures to be held in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
Presented by
~ATHE HELEN KELLOGG INSTITUTE~IFOR INTERNATIONAL STUDIES 
and 
~THE JOAN B. KROC INSTITUTE FOR ~ INTERNATIONAL PEACE S11JDIES 
Cosponsored with 
lATIN AMERICAN/NORTH AMERICAN 
CHURCH CONCERNS (LANACC) 






ATION 
Wednesday, March 7, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Cuba demands end to sanctions: 
Cuba's chief economic planner says his country wants to trade with the United .States but insist­ed the communist nation won't buy a single aspirin until all U.S. sanctions are lifted uncon­ditionally. "If the blockade is lifted, yes, we will buy. Not only aspirin, but many other prod­ucts," Vice President Carlos Lage told The Associated Press on Monday night in an exclu­sive interview. 

Railway crash was unavoidable: 
Railway companies cannot be faulted for a fatal chain-reaction collision in which a Land Hover barreled down an embankment and onto the tracks, derailing two trains. a government report said Tuesday. The Feb. 28 incident in northeast England in which 10 people were killed was "wholly exceptional." 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Courts stop execution: The Georgia Supreme Court halted the execution of a con­victed killer four hours before he was sched­uled to die Tuesday. In a 4-3 ruling, the court said it was delaying Ronald Keith Spivey's execution until it addressed whether electro­cution violates the Constitution's ban on "cruel and unusual" punishment. 


Army recovers remains from crash: 
A somber procession of military vehicles delivered the remains of 21 guardsmen to a central-Georgia air base as Army investiga­tors scrambled over the site where their plane , crashed, mapping and videotaping the charred wreckage. Lt. Col. Deborah Bertrand, a Robins Air Force Base spokeswoman, said the bodies were transported Monday to the base south of Macon. Local law enforcement officers escorted the convoy. "We were care­ful to provide the greatest degree of deference and respect," Bertrand said. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 

Man blames voodoo for murder: A 
Gary man has pleaded guilty to killing a woman whose husband suspected she was cursing him with voodoo. Anthony Gooden, 31, pleaded guilty to murder Monday for the September 1997 beating death of Alysa Hobson, Lake County prosecutors said. Hobson's husband, Jentry Hobson Jr.. 55, was sentenced in November to 25 years in prison for arranging to have her killed. Hobson pleaded guilty but men­tally ill to the charge of conspiracy to murder his 50-year-old wife, a counselor at Pulaski Middle School in Gary. 
Market Watch 3/6 

Dow 
]ONES  10,591.22  +28.92  
Up: 1,854  Sarne: 205  Cornpo5ite Volume: NIA  
AMEX:  928.94  +l.97  
Nasdaq:  2,204.43  +61.51  

[_.. -·:.NYSE; ;_~, ~t::~~:~~2~18·: .,.±?1?3 S&P 500: 1,253.80 +12.39 TOPS VOLUME LEADERS 
C0MPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE SGAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +.Li') +0.92 24.00 DELL COMPUTER (DELL) ti 1.74 +2.75 16.19 NASDAQ IOO SHAR (QQQ) d.89 +1.85 49.40 INTEL CORP (INTC) +J.70 + t.13 31.'iO ORACLE CORI' (ORCL} +J.6'i t0.62 17.61 

in this middle-class San and fired shots randomly. Kaforey said. 
Associated Press 

Diego suburb. He stopped to reload his As he and the guard ran SANTEE, Calif. One student said he had weapon as many as four out, Williams shot the 
a smile on his face as he times, getting off 30 or guard in the back, Kaforey
Some classmates 
said.

described the 15-year-old fired away with a .22-cal­more shots, Lewis said. as a "nerd" and a "dork" iber pistol in this middle­"The bell had rung to go Williams finally surren­class suburb about 20 to class and we were all dered in the bathroom.
and said he was taunted relentlessly. Others said the miles northeast of San walking to go to class and dropped his gun and said 
Diego. all of a sudden you hear the he acted alone, telling offi­high school freshman told sound of like a cap gun," cers: "It's just me," accord­them he was going to bring "It was total chaos. 
a gun to school and shoot People were trying to take said student Jennifer Wall. ing to authorities. up the campus but they cover," said student John "Pop, pop, pop and every­Students Bryan Zuckor, 
14, and Randy Gordon, 17, 
didn't take him seriously. Schardt, 17, who was in a one started ducking," "We thought he was jok­nearby classroom when the recalled fellow student were killed. Zuckor was 
ing," said Neil O'Grady, 15. shooting started about 9:20 Nika Ocen-Odoge. shot dead in the bathroom; "We were like, 'Yeah, a.m. in a boys' restroom. Andrew Kaforey, a 17-Gordon was wounded on Williams allegedly had year-old senior. said he ran the quad and died at a hos­
right."' On Monday. the student hidden the gun in his back­into the bathroom with a pital. security guard after hear­Eleven other students, a
authorities identified as pack. Charles Andrew Williams, Police Lt. Jerry Lewis ing what sounded like a 29-year-old student allegedly opened fire at said the teen-ager shot two firecracker or a gunshot. teacher and a 22-year-old Santana High School, people in the restroom, "He pointed the gun right campus security guard 
then walked into a quad at me but he didn't shoot," were wounded.
killing two and injuring 13 
SAUDI ARABIA 

Hajj continues despite stampede 
ramps surrounding the three stone Jaber. 
Associated Press pillars symbolizing the devil at which The government said in a state­MINA the faithful cast seven pebbles. ment that the deaths occured when Pilgrims who had completed the some pilgrims in the massive crowds 
Nearly 2 million pilgrims threw pebbles at pillars in a symbolic ston­ritual changed from their traditional dropped luggage they were carrying, 
hajj garbs -seamless white robes causing others to trip and fall amid
ing of the devil Tuesday at a site 

the press of people. Besides the 23
where a day earlier 35 Muslims per­for men and modest head-to-toe cos­
forming the ritual were crushed and tumes for women -and put on their women and 12 men killed, a total trampled to death. usual clothes, their heads shaved in 107 people were injured, said the The tragedy during the annual pil­the tradition for those finishing the statement, carried by the official 
Saudi Press Agency. 
grimage to Mecca, or hajj, was the pilgrimage. 
Many recalled the chaos from the The crush took three hours to get
main topic of discussion among par­

under control, witnesses said. An
ticipants Tuesday, with many blam• day before. ing overzealous pilgrims as well as "It was a very tough day. Our Egyptian journalist who was per­
bad organization. group passed it unhurt, thank God," forming the ritual at the time said he On Tuesday. crowds of pilgrims said a Qatari pilgrim who wanted to saw a few people at a time suffocate moved patiently along the giant be identified only by his first name, or fall and be trampled to death. 

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 7, 2001 
when she worked on campus at the Steakhouse. "On campus, they're really cool if you Rockne Memorial and Rolfs, she was not "It's nice getting out of Notre Dame and have an exam the next day," Blair said. 
Jobs 
paid. meeting people," said Blair. Geis works primarily on weekends to try 
continued from page I 
"It doesn't go against their financial aid, but we would count their earnings against next year's financial aid eligibility," she said. 
Therefore, for some students, working off-campus could actually hurt them. 
For someone like Blair, however, that is not the case. She explained that a combi­nation of her hourly wages and tips at Colorado Steakhouse make it worthwhile for her work there. 
Financial aid is not always a considera­tion for students with off-campus jobs. 
Notre Dame senior Yasemin Gadelhak, who works at Lula's, decided to get a job to help cover living expenses when she moved off-campus. 
"Living off campus gets expensive," she said. 
Because her father is a faculty member, Gadelhak receives free tuition. Therefore, 
But working at Lula's has other benefits "Extra spending money" is another ben­for Gadelhak as well. She also said that efit her job offers, according to Geis, who working there is fun. and similar to work­is not a financial aid recipient and has ing on campus because the majority of never had an on cam pus job. customers are Notre Dame students or But working off campus does have some faculty due to Lula's close proximity to drawbacks, according to Blair. campus. One problem she has faced is that unlike 
"It's great. You get to see everybody," her former on-campus bosses, the ones at she said. the restaurant are not always understand­For Saint Mary's senior Ruth Geis, her ing about her homework and tests. 
job at The Limited in University Park Mall is perfect for the opposite reason. 
"It was nice to be able to get away from the whole school environment ... It's something to do to get off cam­pus," Geis said. 
Blair finds a simi­lar benefit working at Colorado 
Diversity 
continued from page 1 
the food,' said Omarova. 
Although its cultural event for last semester ran into obstacles, the Board was able to make steps to improve the campus for those students with disabilities. 
"The Board has given a voice to disabled students. Last semes­ter we were able to propose measures to improve accessibili­ty on campus for disabled stu­dents and hopefully money will be set aside to make those changes," said Sara Mahoney, a member of Students with Disabilities and Diversity Board. 
The Boardalso plans to pack the month of March with activi­ties. Featuring events ranging from International Women's Week to Hunger Awareness Week, each member of the Board has taken on a cause. 
"We are working on getting students to sponsor a child with the Sisters of the Holy Cross in Mexico. If this works we want to start sponsoring children around the world," said Virginia Brewer-Delgado. 
Along with helping the world, 

the Board is trying to involve the 
South Bend community in its 
effort to enrich Saint Mary's stu­
dents. 
"For Disabilities Week we 

want to bring in the Logan cen­
ter. We want people to see that 
Saint Mary's is not just one 
homogenous community," said 
Omarova. 
Even though the Board is planning events for March, some students think the Board can play an even bigger role on campus. 

Some students, like campus activist senior Maureen Capilla, are concerned because they want a Board that is visibly active. 
"They haven't done much and they have a lot of work ahead of them," said Capillo. 
Utilitizing its resources is key, said Jamie Newcomb, Board member. 
"Having all these people in one place is an incredible amount of power only if we use it," said Newcomb. 
One of the efforts of the Board to increase dialogue on campus this semester has been to hold student forums to discuss vari­ous issues. 
The first forum in February was so successful that a second was held the next week to con­tinue the discussion on diversity and stereotypes people harbor. 
The Board also wants to use the forum as a place for student opinions. 
"We want to get Saint Mary's community into dialogue about any issues students have," said Omarova. 
The Board acknowledges there is much to be done to work on creating a culturally aware campus. 
"It is an ongoing challenge and 
daily struggle. The more we talk 
the more we open and I think by 
next year we will be in a differ­
ent place," said Terri Johnson, 
advisor and director of 
Multicultural Affairs at Saint 
Mary's. 
1 r .EVERYDAY on SALE 
T<>w" ~ c.00ttfry S"oPf>i,tj c.e11fer -U.S. 20-zr,.2sc..s:r'lll' le"ille $1,-,.pil'l3 c.e,.ter -w. Wester" A't/e. -2Jf.U'9J1'2.'f ca-, Sk S -S afe Roacf 2S -V,.'Z.f/S-'fW'. 

6et an imide look from Matt from MTV'~ 
New Orlean~ 

to avoid that problem. "My classes are my priority, and then I work," she said. 
Students not receiving financial aid can still work on campus, according to Swift. She said her office posts positions on its job board web site. Salaries of students not on financial aid are not considered work-study, and so their salaries must be fully funded by the University. 





with music by danielle ikorich &gary daigle 
fRI DAY~ ~LI~ [R\SPRI NGIBs [R\ ~ ~ [K{ 
Hesburgh Library Auditorium • 7pm • Friday, March 23rd (-M 
Campus Ministry 



College of Arts and Letters University of Notre Dame 
Invites 
Nominations 
for 

the Father Sheedy Award 
Each year, the Sheedy Award, named for a former dean of the College of Arts and Letters, honors one member of the Arts and Letters faculty for outstanding teaching. 
Both students and faculty are invited to submit nominations for this year's award. Please send your letter indicating what is special or significant about this instructor to: 
Dian Murray, Associate Dean 101 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Deadline Wednesday, March 21st, 2001 

Sheedy Aw-ard 


Wednesday, March 7, 2001 
The Observer . NEWS page 7 
AFGHANISTAN 

Taliban destroy Islamic symbols 
Ameritech awards Tarara to create lab 
have access to the equipment. If 
By MOLLY McVOY 
you can be familiar with the 
Saint Mary's Editor 
equipment when you come in, you won't have to waste the first Virtual laboratories are on the half-hour of lab." horizon at Saint Mary's. Rick 
The grant allows Tarara to Tarara, professor of physics at expand on a rougher. initial ver­Saint Mary's was awarded a 
sion of animated computer simu­$10,000 grant from Ameritech lations that he began several to develop a virtual physics labo­years ago. He has initial work ratory experiences. done on an air track simulation 
Tarara hopes that the experi­already completed. ences, which will be video Once the entire lab is complet­sequences and animated simula­ed he will offer it free on the tions, will enhance students' internet to interested faculty at 
experience in both the high the lab and 
school and
"The whole project is 

allow schools college level. 
with limited about providing a "The first equipment to 
software tool that is a thing I hope to 
offer more var­do is to
pre and post-lab

ied experi­release this 
ments to stu­excercise for physics labs experiment on 
dents. to familiarize students the web and "The whole get some feed­
with equipment." 

project is back before about provid­going on to ing a software Rick Tarara the next tool that is a 
Saint Mary's professor of physics experiment," 
pre and post­Tarara said. "I lab excercise will offer it for physics labs to familiarize free on the internet for down­
students with equipment," load through my website." Tarara said. Tarara will be presenting his 
Tarara explained that a major virtual laboratory to both a problem with physics labs is the meeting of the Indianna limited time allowed students. Association of Physics teachers Within the limited time slot, stu­.and at the National Association dents are expected to become of Physics teachers meeting. familiar with equipment, per­Ameritech has a history of form the experiment and ana­supporting ideas that enhance lyze the results. technology available to students 
A virtual lab that allows stu­and skills students learn. dents to become comfortable "Ameritech is committed to with the equipment before lab supporting educational :nitia­time and return to the equip­tives that utilize technology to ment once the lab is completed enhance learning," said George will offer the students a more Fleetwood, president of complete lab experience. Ameritech Indiana...We are 
"Time is a problem in many proud to support Saint labs," Tarara said. "You have a Mary's College as it expands the certain amount of time in lab, opportunities high school and and once you leave, you don't college students have to learn." 
Alumni-Senior Club's Pre-Spring Break/St. Pat's Party 

On Wednesday, this week, the Club will be preparing students for the upcoming Spring Break by hosting a special party. Expect traditional St. Patrick's festivities, (see our webpage at www.nd.edu/,-.;asc) including "Find the Shamrock" 
game to win cool prizes from our sponsor. We'll also be catering to all our spring 
. 

)I z br~akers, especially those \J .(Y.l A . going to warmer areas, by 
offering something "cool" to ~your personal satisfaction. Come see what it's all 
. 
.
e 
about this Wednesday night and get your Spring Break started off right. Must be 21 or older with valid ID. 
NATO mulling Macedonian border 
to let Yugoslav troops return to a reinforcement area." 
Associated Press 

a narrow strip of land along the "We're looking very closely joint border of Yugoslavia, now at the decision, a possible
UNITED NATIONS 
Macedonia and the Yugoslav decision to allow Yugoslav
NATO is considering allowing 
province of Kosovo, which is forces into the ground safetyYugoslav forces to help keep under NATO and U.N. control. zone along the border with theethnic Albanian rebels out of The area is within a three­Former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia following clashes 
mile buffer zone set up in 1999 Macedonia and I hope a deci­
there this week, NATO 
around Kosovo to prevent sion on that will be taken this
Secretary-General Lord 
Belgrade's troops from launch­week," he said. 
Robertson said Tuesday. 
ing surprise attacks against Secretary of State Colin
Robertson said the Alliance 
NATO-led peacekeepers who Powell appeared Tuesday to 
would decide this week whether 
entered the province after the back the initiative to let 
78-day NATO bombing cam­Yugoslav troops patrol the 
paign, launched to stop then Macedonian border. 
President Slobodan Milosevic's "We are examining how we 
crackdown on Kosovo can begin to transfer the ground safety zone back to
Albanians. 
Yugoslav
However, authorities over

ethnic 
..We hope that by time -not all
Albanian militants isolating the area at once, but 
perhaps begin­have used 

concerned. cutting off 
ning with the

the corridor 
supply lines. we will most d iffic ult
to smuggle 
area in the

weapons make it much more 
south," Powell

and fighters 
difficult for these people 
said in

into south­
to continue operating Washington.
ern areas of 
Macedonia

Yugoslavia's and to continue with 
has a restive

main repub­
their prospective action . ., ethnic Albanian 
lic Serbia, 
community.

which has which makes
large ethnic Lord Robertson up about one•
Albanian NATO Secretary-General 
fourth of its 2

populations. 
million people.
The mili-

On Tuesday. Macedonian
tants want to unite parts of President Boris Trajkovski
Serbia and Macedonia where promised not to surrender "a
ethnic Albanians live. Although single foot" of his territory to
NATO entered Kosovo to protect "terrorism and extremism."
ethnic Albanians, it now fears In Belgrade, Yugoslavia's
the aspirations by ethnic Albanian militants in southern interior minister. Zoran Zivkovic, said allowing the
Serbia and Macedonia could Yugoslav Army into the border
trigger a new Balkan conflict. area would provide the "best
Three Macedonian soldiers protection" for Macedonia and
were killed this week in clashes with ethnic Albanian gunmen. for southern Serbia. 
NATO-led peacekeepers in
prompting Macedonia to close Kosovo have been trying to stop 
its border with Kosovo. the flow of weapons and fight­
Macedonian police ~aid about ers into both southern Serbia
170 ethnic Albanians fled their and Macedonia since rebel
homes Monday to escape the activity spilled over from
fighting. Yugoslav forces would not be Kosovo last year. "We hope that by isolating the 
allowed to return to Kosovo area concerned. cutting off sup­
under the plan being considered ply lines, we will make it much
by NATO. However, Robertson more diflicult for these people
said NATO-led peacekeepers to continue operating and to
were stepping up controls along continue with their provocative
the Kosovo-Macedonian border action," Robertson said. 
"to restrict the use of Kosovo as 
Associated Press 

KABUL, Afghanistan 
Taliban troops interrupted demolition of two giant stone Buddhas to celebrate the Muslim fes­tival of Eid al-Adha, but will continue destroying the statues when the holiday ends, a Taliban offi­cial said Tuesday. 
Parts of the massive statues -the larger of the two was believed to be the world's tallest stand­ing Buddha -have been destroyed and demoli­tion will continue when Eid ends Thursday, Abdul Salam Zaeef, the Taliban's ambassador to neighboring Pakistan, said in Islamabad. 
"\Ve don't know how long it will take to destroy them, but they will be eliminated," he said. 
The Taliban's reclusive leader Mullah Mohammed Omar has ordered all pre-Islamic statues in the country destroyed, including the two towering Buddhas hewn from a cliff face in central Bamiyan in the third and fifth centuries. 
Their destruction, as well as thousands that of other relics, including a 2,000-year-old seated bodhisattva, has generated international out­rage. In Buddhism, bodhisattvas are people of great spiritual awareness who help others reach enlightenment. 
ThP-U.N. Security Council on Tuesday con­demned the Taliban's order to destroy the relics as an "incomprensible and wanton" act of vio­lence against the country's cultural heritage. 
Council members joined other U.N. bodies. governments, religious and cultural organiza­tions in urging the Taliban to halt the destruction of an important part "of the world's cultural treasure." 
An eyewitness report earlier said Taliban sol­diers were firing anti-aircraft weapons at the giant statues. 
"I am being told from Kabul that they are using mainly explosives because the statues are very strong," Zaeef said. "We do not want to spend more money or resources to destroy them. That"s why we are using explosives." 
He said troops have demolished 25 percent of the two Buddhas. The Taliban's Information and Culture Minister Qatradullah Jamal said earlier that the legs and feet had already been destroyed. 
Reporters trying to reach Bamiyan, a valley in the Hindu Kush Mountain range nearly 80 miles from the Afghan capital of Kabul, were turned back by Taliban troops armed with automatic weapons. 
Most other Buddhist statues in museums throughout Afghanistan have already been destroyed, said Taliban officials who did not want to be quoted. 
It's not known whether the priceless bodhisatt­va is among them, but one Afghan source said "everyone believes it has been demolished. No one believes it is still there." 
Islamic clerics within the Taliban ranks were outraged by the bodhisattva's naked torso when the Kabul Museum was briefly opened last August. The statue was quickly encased in glass. 
.

O
THE 

page 8 BSERVER Wednesday, March 7, 200 l 
THE OBSERVER 

Tiu lnd,pMl-hnr. Dt1i/y N,wsptlJ>lr S,n,inf Notrt o,.,.,, And SAi111 Maryi 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Norre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINF.SS MANAGER 
Noreen Gillespie Tim Lane 

NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Mattingly VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smith SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: Elizabeth Lang 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Bob Woods GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0 .............. 631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING .....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4 542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEW'S...................................-.......................631-5323 observer.obsnews.l@nd.edu VIEWP0INT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu ScENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene.l@nd.edu SAJNT ~v's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRAT0RS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://obstrvrr.nd.edu for daily updates of c.ampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for

weather for up-to-the 
weekly student reviews

minute forecasts 
online features for spe­

advertise for policies 
cial c.ampus coverage

and rares ofprint ads 
about The Observer

archives to search for 
to meet the editors and 

articles published after 
staff

August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advercisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent che opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions r~arding Observer policies should he direct­ed to Editor in ChiefMike Connolly. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Parents praise Notre Dame family 
A week ago my husband Harry and I had the privilege of being a part of Notre Dame's wonderful Junior Parents' Weekend. It was a fun and memorable experience that we both enjoyed immensely. 
Along with our daughter Hyland we also did what most Domers do everyday: ate in the dining hall, visited your beautiful bookstore and listened to Father Edward Malloy, Father Joseph Walter and other faculty members and pro­that my husband joins me in thanking you as students for making our stay one that continues to fill our heart with pre­cious memories. You were kind, helpful and respectful. 
We now have a greater understanding of how you feel when you chant, "We are ND" in the stadium. Please know that we too love Notre Dame and appreciate the loyalty and pride you have toward the Notre Dame family. 
fessors as they enlightened us on various matters concerning Nora Cronin · our daughter's studies at Notre Dame. Morgantown, W.Va. As parents we left your fine campus feeling a much deeper February 27, 200 I closeness to your school. It is because of our grand weekend 
Learn for learning's sake 
Fear. You can see it anytime a profes­sor assigns a creative assignment. The classroom becomes silent as the students open their eyes wide in fright. Whether it's a short story in a particular author's style or a first-per­son anecdote in a 
Scott Blaszak

foreign language, the class will grow 
nervous and 
The Early 

inevitably hands will begin shooting Essays up across the class­
room. 
How will this be graded? Is this what you want us to do? Can I show you a draft? And when the professor fails to provide them with a clear formula, a deliberate recipe for a good grade, they panic. 
Notre Dame does not have a creative 

student body. Its strongest colleges are 
science and business which I think sets 
the tone for the rest of the University. 
Our alumni are known for their mergers 
and I.P.0.s, not their debut novels or fea­
ture films. Even the campus seems to 
lack that philosophical feel to it that you 
get when you walk through Ann Arbor or 
one of the Ivy League campuses out east. 
No, you'll never confuse South Bend 

for Oxford, but what we as intellectuals 
lack in creativity we make up for in 
elbow grease. 
For a Catholic university there's quite a 

Protestant work ethic here -weeks like 
this it's especially evident -and it's 
heightened by a Catholic sense of guilt 
that I suspect is the pulling force keeping 
so many students home studying on 
weekend nights. 
I've been told that in a national study 

our average workload at Notre Dame 
was in step with the top four schools in 
the nation. I question how scientific such 
a study can be but even so it's a telling 
ranking and to me not a surprising one. 
Part of the reason our workload is so 

heavy is because people here seem to 
thrive on it. Notre Dame students are like 
academic Rudy's. We may not be the 
smartest or cleverest or most privileged 
in our previous education but we'll out­
work, out-hustle, out-extra-credit you 
into the ground. 
Check that. Extra credit at Notre Dame doesn't really exist. Extra credit is offered, don't get me wrong, but the whole notion of extra credit is that cer­tain students will do additional and more challenging work in order to raise their grade in relation to others. At Notre Dame, more often than not, virtually everyone in the class does the extra credit. Since most classes are graded on a curve this means extra credit acts like 
required credit. 
And no matter how ludicrous the ways of generating credit get, the students never flinch. A few years ago a science professor here promised extra credit to any of his students who went to watch his elementary school son play soccer. Off they went, 50 strong, to watch an Indiana children's soccer game in the name of higher education. 
But don't misunder­stand me; I'm not com­ing down on a healthy work ethic. No doubt it's an admirable char­acteristic for a student body to have -and it's why big Chicago accounting firms swoop in every spring and take Darners by the hundreds off to cubicle lives on the Golden Coast -but with everyone working so hard here grading becomes tricky. 
Grade inflation is a problem at 
ll 

universities across the country, espe­cially in the liberal arts where objectivity is often lost in a tiring web of opinions. With no right or wrong answers or no clear cut grading key how do you justify giving an A, B, C or {gasp) a C-to a stu­
den~ . 
If you grade according to how hard the students work then nearly everybody deserves an A or high B because at this school as with other top universities stu­dents will work themselves silly to beat the bell curve. If you don't award most of 
them A's, they could do serious harm to themselves. 
But it's wrong to give grades based on the amount of effort a student gives. Working hard is a means to success but not an end. In America, we tend to champion work ethic as a byproduct of our rugged frontier origins -but work ethic shouldn't carry too much signifi­cance in academia. 
This could be why America has nev~r 
excelled at producing top of the line q~Ji intellectuals compared to, say, a vJf/2rrJ/JI less otherwise productive coun­
m try like France. You don't¥IA want the French to go to war'Ih.t.Ji for you or even to roof your 
VI. cottage for that matter, but 
they know how to think. fJ. In fact, the whole conti­~ nent of Europe seems a ~ little smarter than North 
'I America, a little more prone to contemplation. 
1 
Meanwhile we Americans, specifically arts and letters majors at small Catholic uni­

• versities in Northern Indiana, don't think much but work really 
2 hard./j Which circles back to ~ my point that as students I sometimes it feels like 
'Z, we're a little too wrapped ~ up in the means to an edu­~ cation. You didn't come to 
t»J college for midterms, 71 thought pieces, grade point averages or Greek honor soci­eties. Take a step back and con­sider how ridiculous this game is. 
And at the risk of sounding too much the intellectual -admittedly I hung up my tweed jacket with the elbow patches more than a year ago -sometimes it's a nice change of pace to learn simply for the sake of learning. 
Scott Blaszak's column appears every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
DILBERT 
I'LL TAKE NO,NO, THIS ONE.. NO. HUGE MISTAKE. 
\ 


E 
0 
u 
t: 
.8 

SCOTT ADAMS 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"The mere imparting ofinformation is not education. Above all things, the effort must result in making a man do and think for himself." 
Carter G. Woodson ( historian 

O
THE 

Wednesday, March 7, 2001 BSERVER page 9 
Use membership to improve WRC 
Notre Dame should be commended Association (FLA). The University is on the WRC, they should have a larg­for its decision to join the \Vorker also working with church and human er say in the direction of the WRC. Rights Consortium and the chance to rights organizations to increase its Currently the WRC only steps in to expand its ability to stomp out sweat­monitoring of labor conditions in monitor factories when a complaint shop labor in the production of col­Latin America. Clearly, Notre Dame has been logged. While this system is lege apparel. This deci­has taken several effective for resolving disputes by sion could strengthen 0 The steps toward curtail-placing the power of major universi­Notre Dame's role as the Dserver ing sweatshop labor. ties behind the workers, it does little leading university in the After taking such a to prevent these problems initially. 
•a1 
battle against sweat­strong stance against The WRC should randomly monitor 
Editon 

shops. sweatshop labor, factories before problems occur. 
For years, Notre Dame Notre Dame must In joining the WRC, the University has set the standard for anti-sweat­ensure that its membership in the expressed its confidence that these shop initiatives by universities-. It was WRC only enhances its mission matters can be resolved satisfactori­the first university to adopt a code of against sweatshops. Notre Dame has ly. As the newest member of the conduct for manufacturers in 1997 made a significant financial commit­WRC, Notre Dame should push for a and was the first university to moni­ment to the WRC by earmarking 1 swift resolution to these concerns. tor its own sweatshops. Notre Dame percent of its licensing revenue to the If Notre Dame's experience as the has also banned the manufacturing Consortium. As one of the largest col­leading anti-sweatshop university of any of its products in countries like legiate licensers in the country, Notre can strengthen the WRC, then Notre China that do not allow workers to Dame has given thousands of dollars Dame's investment is worthwhile. organize. This ban will take effect to the WRC. Through the FLA, WRC and its own June 30. At the same time, the University independent monitoring, Notre Dame 
But Notre Dame's leadership in the acknowledges concerns regarding can make a strong statement against battle against sweatshops doesn't the structure of WRC and its plan for sweatshops. stop with codes of conduct and in.de­monitoring factories. Currently, only pendent monitoring. It is also one of five universities sit on the board of the co-chairs of the university adviso­directors of the WRC. If universities ry council of the Fair Labor are going to spend significant money 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Trust in promises is necessary 
First and foremost I would like to thank the "regular monitoring") is the reason why the WRC is University of Notre Dame for joining the Workers concentrating on complaint based procedures at this Rights Consortium (WRC). juncture. 
Secondly, I would like to answer some concerns and In regard to Whitmore's concern surrounding the miscommunications between the administration and pulling out of companies in production areas -I share student groups, particularly in regard to Professor your concern and fear. This fear gets to the hardest 
Todd Whitmore's comments yesterday in his article, part of solidarity work. How and when do we best "WRC Decision A Difficult One." throw our weight and privilege around? 
I commend the University for its work on the sweat­There were many universities and colleges at the shop issue. It has done, as Whitmore mentioned WRC founding conference last April that had this Monday, some wonderful work. I also agree exact fear. Administrators were af1 aid that that the importance of such work is "public exposure" would alienate corpora­
defined by its commitment to the Catholic /-......lfl. tions and thus result in defensive and very social teachings of solidarity and 'sub­drastic measures like pulling out and 
._____\ leaving thousands without jobs. 
sidiarity.' 
However the question then The response last April was, "We 
have the same concerns. But we can­becomes what this solidarity with not let our fear stop us. We mustworkers actually means. In the 
Kukdong example it meant a num­move forward on this issue and we 
need your help and support to getber of things. 
..._.,._, this project off the ground. We willFor one, it meant that the inevitably address these concernsMexican law had to support and as an unified organization when encourage unions (as it should in the time comes. We promise." 
China) but it also meant that That promise was a profoundthese "governmental" unions had and important promise to hear.
to support the workers' needs. 
L..11111...if And I believe the Kukdong incident In Puebla, the home of the and in particular how the WRC asKukdong factory. this was not the an unified organization handled the case. Their "union" was a govern­incident was a perfect example and ment union and it was not sup­confirmation of this promise. 
porting or helping workers which is 
why on Jan. 8, 25 workers were We, as a community, must identify
liill"-I'...,.,.,:/

fired for organizing and on Jan. 9, • and give voice to our fears as 
Whitmore did Monday afternoon. We800 workers participated in a work must also think through them and some­stoppage. 
times move past them as the University 
As the above example shows this reali­
ty is a tedious one. Factory conditions and (\f did yesterday morning when they joined the locations vary. These problems are constant-!'R'-,w 10\ WRC. Thank you. 
In closing I suggest -maybe even highly rec­ly changing and exist at personal and local lev­
els. The conditions in Mexico for apparel workers are ommend -that the University consider applying their 
different than the working conditions in Indonesia. Not commitment of solidarity to their interactions with the 
Notre Dame student body. In regard to sweatshop better or worse. just different. 
These differing realities make "regular monitoring" issues this would mean allowing an undergraduate stu­enormously difficult. Who is doing this "regular moni­dent or two who are also active in the Progressive 
toring?" How is it being done? What purpose does it Student Alliance to sit with voting rights on the Notre serve? Who is the beneficiary? The workers or the Dame anti-sweatshop task force and advisory commit­monitors? tee to the president. 
When Price \VaterhouseCooper, a multi-national 
Maureen Capillo 
auditing firm. does "regular monitoring" they are serv­
senior

ing the interests of their customers and not, as the Fair 
LeMans Hall
Labor Association likes to claim, the workers in sweat­
March 6, 200 l 
shop conditions. This difficulty (i.e. how one defines 
Collection 
•

revives Romero's spirit 
In the days before his death on March 24, 1980, Salvadoran Bishop Oscar Romero said in his homily, "I must tell you, as a Christian, I do not believe in death without resurrection. If I am killed, I shall arise in the Salvadoran people." 
Romero was assassinated because he spoke to the people 
Jim Paladino

of El Salvador about the pover­ty of the masses, calling on people of God to take action. El For a More Salvador went through years 
Just and
of bloody civil war that robbed 
Humane World
the nation of many of its young people and much of its natural 
resources. 

Economically the country was set back decades and only recently are some gains being made. Until the earthquakes in recent weeks. 
El Salvador continues to experience earthquakes on a daily basis, some 60 in total -not just after­shocks. Over a million people are homeless. The estimated poverty rate of 40 percent rose to over 50 percent of the population after the first quake hit. 
The people of El Salvador could use the sprit of Oscar Romero now. And his spirit is alive here at Notre Dame. 
Al Sondej was a member of the Notre Dame Class of 197 4, my class. The class that is able to boast Notre Dame's first astronaut, James Wetherbee, who is scheduled to take off in Space Shuttle Discovery on Thursday of this week. But Al Sondej is also a hero of that class. 
Many people to this day remember Al faithfully outside of the North Dining Hall every evening meal, collecting money for people in poverty. A bench there commemorates his efforts. 
During the 1970s Al responded to an earthquake in Guatemala by traveling there to help in relief efforts. Al has since passed away but friends of his from the class of 197 4 have established a fund in his name here at Notre Dame to assist in poverty relief efforts. 
This past week members of that group approached the University with the hope that a fit­ting memorial for Al's years here at Notre Dame would be to send the proceeds (amounting to sever­al thousand dollars) from Al's fund to El Salvador through Catholic Relief Services. 
Romero's spirit lives on. and so does that of Al 
Sondej! 

The week after spring break, Notre Dame will 
commemorate the 21st anniversary of Romero's 
assassination with the Annual Oscar Romero 
Lecture. Lectures and a prayer service will be held 
on Monday and Tuesday of that week. 
As we remember Oscar Romero we can all take 
this opportunity to also remember his sprit that 
lived in Al Sondej and continues to be present in our 
lives on this campus. In Al's memory students will 
be taking collections outside of both the North and 
South Dining halls and at the Monday Romero lec­
ture at the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
Please remember our sisters and brothers in El 
Salvador as they raise money for earthquake relief 
and rebuilding efforts through the Catholic Relief 
Services. 

Keep the spirit of Romero and Sondej alive in our midst! 
Jim Paladino. a member ofthe Notre Dame class 
of1974. is the Associate Director ofProgram a_nd 
Resource Administration at the Center for Social 
Concerns. The CSC's column appears every other 
Wednesday. 

The views expressed in this column are those of 
the author and not necessarily those ofThe 
Obserz,er. 


T E L 
I 0 N
eene 
page 10 Wednesday, March 7, 200 I 
Man triumphs over technology as CBS game show loses 
Technology has been screwing people over for more than 100 years. Every time your computer crashes or you watch the "Personalized Settings" box take forever loading up in t~e lab. technology is screwing you. 
But technology screws over corporations too, not just indi­vidual people. It seems that technology has been screwing CBS forever. 
During the Grammys this year, the CBS Jeff Baltruzak edit people kept missing Eminem swear­ing on the air. As a result, several naughty words kids hear everyday on the 
playground were said on America's last Short Circuits moral compass ~ television. 
You probably don't remember Michael Larsen, who used technology to screw over CBS back in 1984. Larsen, an unemployed ice cream truck driver, competed on a little game show you might remember fondly: "Press Your Luck." 
"Press Your Luck" was the game show where people dressed in teal and bad 80s hair competed for thousands in cash and prizes. People hoped not to hit "\-Vhammies," which were little cartoon characters that took all your money to buy more blue eye shadow, which was the fashion at the time. 
Contestants would watch a flickering board and then hit an enormous orange button to stop the board. all the while chant­ing "No Whammies, Big Bucks. no Whammies, Big Bucks." 
Larsen taped every episode of "Press Your Luck" and figured out by pausing his VCR over and over that the game board had only six random patterns. This is like "Jeopardy!" recycling questions, hoping that "nobody pays attention to Alex Trebek anyway." . 
Larsen memorized the patterns and went from Ohw to Los Angeles to seek his fortune like some covered wagon pioneer from the 1800s. What is not clear is if he left Ohio to avoid kids running up to the ice cream truck with 100 pennies want­ing to buy a Fudgesicle. . 
Once it was his turn to play on the show, Larson kept gettmg hitting the "Big Bucks" square, racking up $20,000, then $30,000 on a game show where winning 10 grand was a big day for a contestant. 
About this time, the show's producers realized they were getting screwed, and CBS had sinister emergency meetings to deal with the Larsen problem. 
Larsen kept spinning, and eventually got to over $110,000. At this point he stopped because his concentration began to slip and he got lucky on a couple spins that he did~'t h~t right. 
It's a shame that he did stop because he had a kid gomg to Notre Dame and $110,000 wasn't enough to cover the tuition hike in 1984. Apparently they had a "budget crisis" back then too. (I made that up). 
CBS only aired the episode with Larsen twice, and when t~ey sold the rights to the reruns to the USA Networks, they put 1t in the contract that USA couldn't show the Larsen episode, probably out of bitterness. CBS also added 10 more patterns for the board to stop future contestants from screwing them the way Larsen had. 
So here are the lessons to be learned from Michael Larsen: 
1. 
If you have technology, it will eventually screw you. 

2. 
If you're going to make a game show, put really dumb peo­ple on it and save yourself some money. 

3. 
Game shows have permanent bad karma. They let people win money, and then they take it away. It's like teasing a dog with a Milkbone. You can tease the dog all you want, but even­tually he will bite you in the leg. · 


Who will technology screw next? It's hard to tell. But I, for one, hope it w.ill he CBS. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Who wa 
From game shows' earliest days 

By C. SPENCER BEGGS Assistant Scene Editor 
Game shows attract die-hard followers of all ages, fans who live to hear Bob Barker yell, "Come on down!" or hear Regis ask, "Is that your final answer?" 
From the earliest days of quiz shows, these armchair players have competed right along with the contestants on their TV screen. Game show addicts are found across the country, and Notre Dame is no exception. 
Sophomore Sean Milligan, reigning cham­pion of Playstation "Jeopardy!" in Fisher Hall, considers himself a game show guru. 
"I think game shows are the best thing that ever happened to TV," said Milligan. "Where else can you do absolutely nothing and still be a hero for a day?" 
Like many of his hall mates, Milligan enjoys his daily fix of game shows. His favorites include "Jeopardy!," "The Price is Right," "Who Wants to be a Millionaire" and "Temptation Island". 
Milligan is confident in his game show stratagems. "'Who Wants to be a Millionaire?' I rule that game," he said. ''I'd win at 'Temptation Island' and 'Survivor' at the same time." 
Sine~ his childhood, Milligan has been watching game shows and planning his shot at the million dollar question. Of course, the jackpot was not always $1 million. 
In fact, the first game show had no prize and was not even aired on television, proving just how far the genre has come since its conception. 
History 

Today it is almost impossible not to recog­nize the phrases "Is that your final answer?" or "I'd like to buy a vowel." The catchy theme music from "Jeopardy!" and "Wheel of Fortune" is impossible to get out of your head. You're humming it right now, aren't you? 
Yet while these programs have become a staple in American popular culture. the game show as we know it today is surpris­ingly young. In 1923, only 13 years after the first public radio broad­cast, two ambitious young men ­"Time" maga­zine co­found er Briton Hadden and his circulation manager Roy Larsen made world history. With the strike of a chime, the two men pre­miered "The Pop Question Game" in an attempt to increase the readership of the fledgling news journal. 
"The Pop Question Game" con­sisted of a selected guest answering one question, or "skull test," before the chime's last note sounded. 

No prize money was offered on "The Pop Question Game". No fancy cars or dream vaca­tions were won with the correct answer. Moreover, the creators of the game show concept had no idea how big their publicity stunt would become. 


Now In Its 28th season on CBS, "The Price Is Right," hosted by Bob Barker, is the longest running game show In television history. 
T E L 
I 0 N
eene 
Wednesday, March 7, 2001 
page 11 

.nts to be a 01illionaire? 
1rvivor" phenomenon, Americans have been obsessed with 1Vcompetition 

their phobias, 
focus on the con­
testants themselves 
rather than the 
game. Similarly, 
"'Who Wants to be 
a Millionaire" cen­
ters on the contes­
tants' reactions as 
they struggle to 
answer difficult 
questions. 
Another show, FOX's "'Greed," pits people against each other in a way unlike other earlier quiz games. In "'Greed," contes­tants must play cooperatively and against each other at the same time. 
Again, the show focuses on the par­ticipants them­selves rather than the game. 
Game Show Flops 
Unfortunately. many ideas in game shows have not been received with the enthusi­asm of "Survivor" and "'Temptation Island." Because of the relatively low production cost of game shows, thou­sands of hours of 

The first radio show to have a real game show for­
mat was the "Professor Quiz" show, which debuted 
in March 1937. The show boasted a host, an 
announcer, a studio audience and prizes. 
"Professor Quiz" aired on CBS, at that time a 
radio station like all the other major networks. By 
the next year, other networks had taken notice of 
the successful idea, and soon there were over 200 
programs with a similar format. 
Shortly after the first for-profit television broad­casts, games shows made the transition to the little screen. The first commercial television game show, N BC's "Uncle Jim's Question Bee," aired July 1, 1941. The show beat out the more famous "first" game show -CBS's "Truth or Consequences" -by a few short hours. 
"Uncle Jim's Question Bee" was actually the direct descendent of the "Professor Quiz" show. When the original host of "Professor Quiz" became 
ill. he was released from with contract with CBS. After recovery, he was hired to host "Uncle Jim's Question Bee" by CBS's biggest rival. 
Before Regis and "Who Wants to be a Millionaire," there was another catchphrase on America's lips. Beginning in the 1940s, NBC's "Dr. I.Q." set the standard for pompous and overly loquacious hosts. Each night an assistant would announce with great gusto. "I have a lady in the balcony. Doctor." 
While the phrase may not be as catchy as the famed "Jeopardy!" category "potent potables," "Dr. 1.Q." defined the America's game show in a way no other program had done or would do for 50 years. The vaudeville pomp and grandeur of "Dr. I.Q." is apparent in almost every game show seen today. 
Today's Game Shows 
Modern game shows have moved from being purely quiz shows to incorporating different gen­res. For example, "American Gladiators" combined prize incentives with a physical challenge aspect. A more recent trend in shows like "Temptation Island" and "Survivor" is to tap into the relatively new arena of the real-life documentary. 
Newer shows like MTV's "Fear." which places people in situations deliberately designed to play on 
Photos courtesy of abc.com fi Im from biz a r re 
,n, John Trela and Kim Hunt (clockwise from top left) react to winning $1 million on ABC's "'Who concepts are 
locked away in stu­
dio yaults. 
For example, in 
1982 Greg and John Rice, twin midgets, hosted the unusually titled "That **** Quiz Show." The show was based on a gambling premise between teams of players with unusual jobs or backgrounds. 
Unfortunately, the offensive nature of this premise caused the show's cancellation two months after it premiered. 
Another ill-fated game show, 1961 's ..You're in the Picture," was hosted by Jackie Gleason. In this game, situation panelists were set in a picture 
frame and obscured by a screen, except for their 
heads. 

By asking yes-or-no questions. contestants tried to 
ascertain what the panelists were doing behind the 
screen...You're in the Picture" was so disappointing 
that Jackie Gleason apologized to the audience in 
advance before the second episode was filmed. 
Luckily, the networks had the good sense •to pull the 
plug before the second episode aired. 
The basic premises of more successful game shows have evolved little over the last 60 years. A look at "The Encyclopedia of TV Game Shows" exposes how often producers repackage old themes. "The Price is Right" is suspiciously similar to the 1947 show "Missus Goes A-Shopping," and comedy improv show "Whose Line is it Anyway" closely resembles Jack Lemon's "The Ad-Libbers" from 1951. 
Do You Want To Be A Millionaire? 
It is easy to sit back and watch faceless contes­tants match their wits against the masters, but does everyone have the chutzpa to actually apply? The selection process is not as hard as one might think. 
"Jeopardy!" offers contestant interviews year­round. The interview consists of a 50 question test. Those who pass the test go on to a videotaped mock session of the game filmed by none other than host Alex Trebek. The lucky hopefuls who make it past the taping will then have their names put in an active file for a year, during which they may be called upon to attend a real "Jeopardy!" round. 
The selection process for "Who Wants to be a Millionaire" is less exclusive. Interested parties may call in and play a telephone version of the game during announced hours. 
Winners of the round are entered into a random computerized drawing to play a second qualifying round. If successful. the parties will again be placed in a computerized random pool and may then be called as contestants for the show. 
Strategies to win at the games are widely varied. A brief look at the games section of any large book­store reveals numerous titles on how to succeed in each show. Some books recommend systems for managing time while others claim to have advanced knowledge of what questions the quiz will pose. 
Those are strategies too involved for connoisseurs like Milligan. 
"The trick to winning at 'Jeopardy!' is being fast on the buzzer and knowing way too much useless stuff," he said. "In 'Survivor' you have to make friends, but not really be their friends." 
It may be a while before you see Milligan's face in the hot seat of a quiz show, but he is confident that if anyone is brave enough to step up to the buzzer, he will soundly show them what it means to be a true game show guru. 

Contestants spin for big money and ask to buy vowels on CBS's "Wheel of Fortune," now in its 18th sea­son starring Pat Sajak and Vanna White. 
page 12 
The Observer . SPORTS 
Wednesday, March 7, 2001 
Hoops 
continued from page 20 
"We beat a hell of a team," Huskies' head coach Geno Auriemma said. "I think it should have ended when it was 76-all and we all could have gone home." 
The victory was bittersweet, however. for the Huskies. Shea Ralph, last season's NCAA Final Four MVP. went down late in the second half with a knee injury. Ralph, who twice has torn the anteri­or cruciate ligament in her right knee, apparently suf­fered the same injury in her left. 
"On the examination, it said. "I was really disappoint­ed that she didn't have some­body in front of her when she shot that." 
Bird then broke a 73-73 tie in the game's final minute, hitting a three-pointer from the top of the key. Riley coun­tered with a lay-up 10 sec­onds later to pull the Irish within one. 
Bird then dribbled the ball out of bounds, setting up a possible game-winner for the Irish. 
UConn center Kelly Schumacher fouled Riley in the lane. The Big East player of the year hit the second free-throw after bouncing the first off the back of the rim. 
The crowd went nuts, antic­
ipating a 
last-sec­

was clear that 
"/ think the crowd was ond game
the ligaments winning
definitely a factor. At the
in the knee are s h o t . loose," end ofthe game we had a McGraw Connecticut contends
fould to give, but we 
team doctor that the
didn't have a timeout left 
Michael Joyce loud envi­said. "My to kind oforganize things ronment strong clinical kept her
and tell them that." 
impression at t e a m this time is f r o m 
Muffet McGraw 

that she tore properly the anterior head coach defending 
cruciate liga­ment in her 
_ left knee." Ralph had 11 points, six assists and three steals in 14 minutes before hurting her knee. "Every time I come home and say so-and-so's been practicing great or playing great, I jinx them," Auriemma said. "I came home before the tournament started and I said, 'Shea Ralph's going to be the MVP of the tournament."' Without Ralph and All­American Svetlana Abrosimova -who already suffered a season -ending left foot injury on Feb. 7 -Bird stepped to the forefront. The point guard, who fin­ished with a team-high 15 points on the night, hit more than just the crucial game­winner. In the closing seconds of the first half, Bird nailed a run­ning three-pointer from just inside the half-court line to put the Huskies ahead 52-46 heading in to the locker room. "We were trying to go get into man-to-man," McGraw 
in the 
game's 

final sec­onds. 
"I think the crowd was defi­nitely a factor," McGraw said. "At the end of the game we had a foul to give, but we didn't have a timeout left to kind of organize things and tell them that." 
Riley was named to the All­Tournament team following the game, along with team­mates Kelley Siemon and Alicia Ratay as well Connecticut's Ralph and Asjha Jones. Connecticut freshman guard Diana Taurasi, who scored 14 points, including four three-pointers, on Tuesday, was named the Tournament Most Valuable Player. 
Riley led the Irish with 23 points and nine rebounds. She played only 33 minutes as she committed four fouls. 
"I think they wanted her on the bench, so they kept going at her," McGraw said. "I think they had some success doing that." 
Siemon added 16 points, 
eight rebounds and two steals for the Irish while Ra tay scored 14 points, including three three-pointers. Point guard Niele Ivey touched for 11 points while handing out nine assists. 
"We don't play well if Nie le Ivey doesn't play well," McGraw said. "She played extremely well today. I think our balance has been really the key for us." 
Despite trailing by six at the halftime buzzer. Notre Dame had one of its best shooting halves of the season. The Irish hit 60.7 percent of their field goal attempts in the opening half, while limiting the Huskies to 52.5 percent from the floor. 
In the second half, the Irish defense got even better. Connecticut attempted 39 shots from the floor, connect­ing on only 10. 
The Irish shot only 40.7 per­cent in the second· half. McGraw attributes the shoot­ing woes to the fast pace gf the game's first 20 minutes. 
"Our game is to run," McGraw said. "We played our own game but in the second half I think we paid the price for it. I think they did too, because their shots weren't dropping." 
Connecticut backup center Kelly Schumacher, averaging only 6.1 points per contest coming in, came off the bench to score 10 points playing inside against Riley. 
"Schu knew I wasn't happy with her, because she wasn't practicing very good," Auriemma said. "She was looking at me with this look on her face like 'You're an idiot.' She said, 'Put me in." I said. 'All right, go in."' She would never say that before." 
The Irish now have a week off before hosting the first two rounds of the NCAA Tournament in the Joyce Center. Opponents and game times will be announced Sunday. 
McGraw hopes to see her team face off against the Huskies for the third time this season in the Final Four. 
"We're extremely hopeful that there will be a trilogy," McGraw said. "We're both No. 1 seeds so if it plays out as it should, we will should get another chance to play." 
Classic 
continued from page 20 
an Instant Classic. 
By this weekend, Connecticut will probably erect a Sue Bird statue. According to Bird, how­ever, if the final seconds ended differently, she would be hung in effigy. With 16.3 seconds left and Connecticut ahead 76-75, center Kelly Schumacher set a screen for Bird, who drove past Niele Ivey. Bird took a few dribbles before the ball bounced off her leg and went out of bounds for the turnover. 
Forget that Bird sat out the previous night's semifinal due to back spasms. Forget that Bird finished with a team-high 15 points. Forget that 33 seconds earlier. Bird hit a three-pointer to give the Huskies a three-point lead. 
"I knew if I didn't hit the game winning-shot," Bird said, "there were going to be problems in the University of Connecticut coach­es· offices." 
In the other coaches' office, Muffet McGraw and company must be pleased. Ruth Riley, after struggling offensively the past two games, accumulated a line (23 points, 9 rebounds, 3 blocks) worthy of the National Player of the Year award. The Irish shot 50.9 percent from the field, out rebounded the Huskies 42-39 and received a 16-point 8­rebound performance from All­Tournament member Kelley Siemon. 
And although they lost, Tuesday's game may have been more impressive than the 96-72 win over then No. 1 Connecticut on Jan. 15. In that contest, Notre Dame played flawlessly while Connecticut seemed shocked and startled and even "gave up," according to Bird and coach Geno Auriemma. 
On Tuesday, Notre Dame did not handle the Connecticut pres­sure as well as before, Riley got into foul trouble, and the Huskies found the gaps in the Irish zone. a defense that caused nightmares for the Huskies in January. 
But even with those problems, the Irish still had a chance to win their 
first-ever Big East tournament title. "I feel better about this game [than the 54-53 to Rutgers on 

Feb. 171," 
McGraw said. "This game I 
feel we played at least pretty 
well. There's a lot of good things 
to take from it." 
Auriemma had the same reac­
tion. Sort of. 
The Huskies' eighth straight tournament title was spoiled by bad news. Shea Halph, a second­team All-Big East selection and the team leader, tore the ACL in her left knee with 5:18 left in the first half and will likely miss the remainder of the season. 
Ralph. the Big East Player of the Year last season, joins for­ward Svetlana Abrosimova, the conference Player of the Year in 1998-99 on the sidelines for the NCAA tournament. Abrosimova injured her left foot on Feb. 1 and underwent surgery to repair a torn ligament. 
Before the injury, Ralph had 11 points, 6 assists and 3 steals. 
"Somebody asked me [before the tournament], 'Have you seen a different look in your players eyes?'," Auriemma said. "I said 'No, they all look just as dopey as before, except for Shea Ralph.' You can't play better than the way Shea was playing. It's impossible. She was on her way. She was on her way." 
Connecticut is on its way to the NCAA tournament as the nation's top team. Although they will be without Ralph and Abrosimova, ·the Huskies have more depth than a Father Hesburgh sermon. Five players scored in double figures and eight played more than 14 min­utes on Tuesday. 
When the NCAA brackets are announced on Sunday night, both teams will likely be No. 1 seeds. So another game is possi­ble. 
"We're extremely hopeful that there will be a trilogy," McGraw said. For now, the focus remains on Notre Dame-Connecticut II. 
A few minutes after the con• test, while the Connecticut play­ers were accepting the tourna­ment trophy, one Husky fan in Section 109 shouted to no one in particular. 
"That was a great women's basketball game," he said. 
He's wrong. 
That was a great basketball game. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the colum­nist and not necessarily those of the Observer. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 
024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the righc to edit 
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
WANTED 
Fraternities• Sororities Clubs*Student Groups Earn $1 ,000-$2,000 this semester with the easy Campusfundraiser.com three hour fundraising event. No sales required. Fundraising dates are filling quickly, so call today! 
Contact Campusfundraiser.com at (888) 923-3238, or visit www.campusfundraiser.com 
Need babysitter, pref. Early ed major, own trans. 2-yr.-oldby Martins 272-1205 
Roomate tor Sweet 2BR+lolt Oak Hills Condo View of Dome, Laundry, Fireplace, $400/mo+ult. Sum&/or next yr. 
289-5651 
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: Make a difference in the life of a child! Summer therapy camp for children with disabilities. Located on shore of Lake Superior near Big Bay, Ml. Positions available for Counselors, Lifeguards, Instructors for Na tu re/ Arts & Cr afts/Recreatio n/C anoe i ng, Nurses, Therapists, Food Service, and Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic, responsible, and love children, June 17 through August 12. Salary, Room & Board, and experience of a lifetime provided. Call or write for application and information. Bay Cliff Health Camp, 310 W. Washington, Suite 300, Marquette, Ml 49855, (906)228-5770, e-mail BayCliffHC@aol.com 
FOR RENT 
2-4 PERSON HOUSE FOR RENT. NEWLY RENOVATED. THREE BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. CALL 29·298-3800 
3-6 bedroom homes furn. Near campus 2001 /02&summer 272­6306 
HOUSES FOR RENT: 1)4-br $700/month 2)3-br. $600/month We'll make almost any changes lo the houses. Call Bill at 675-0776 
4-BA HOUSE! CENTRAL AIR SEC SYS ETC. $600/MONTH. 291-2209 Macos@michiana.org 
3-5 bedroom homes close to campus 
232-2595 mmmrentals@aol.com 
2 BA HOUSE PERFECT FOR SIN­GLE/COUPLE $300/MO. Dave 291­2209 
3-bdrm. House for rent Fall 01. 2 blks from campus 
2-4 PERSON HOUSE FOR RENT. NEWLY RENOVATED. THREE BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. CALL 219-298-3800. 

FOR SALE 
SPRING BREAK-DOWNTOWN CHICAGO! $22-25/night-Hostelling lnt'I $2 OFF WITH AD 312/360-0300 or www.hichicago.org 
PHONE CARDS $20: 2601 MIN WITH 49 CENT SUR­CHARGE or $20 362 MIN WITH NO FEES 
634·1146 CLAUDIA 634-4210 SARA 
Wooded 1 /2 acre lots 20 minutes to Notre Dame Football, Minutes to US Golf Academy. Contract avail• able. $20,000 Phone (219) 473­0191 
Microwave stand w/ storage $175 Call Kim 631-5878 Beautiful brass bed, queen size, with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame. All new, never used, still in plastic. $235 219-862-2088 
89 Toyota Corolla manual 100K highway miles $2300 call 273-3149 
Spring Break Appetizer Mexican Blankets from $12,95 + S&H Mexiconnection.com 
St. Jude Novena May the Scared heart of Jesus be adored and glorified, loved and pre­served throughout the world, now and forever. Sacred Heart of Jesus pray for us. St. Jude, Worker of Miracles, pray for us. St. Jude, Help the hopeless, pray for us. Say this prayer nine times a day. By the eighth day your prayer will be answered. Publication must be promised. It has never been known to fail. Thank you, St. Jude. 

PERSONAL 
Feed the children!!!! 
Bump it with a trumpet 
Say goodbye to the computer wee­nies and hello to the philosophers, dancers, poets and theatre majors! 
Lauren and Karen ­The cake should go in the lire, 
Noah -you are so slow! You've been spending too much time with Tim Casey! 
thanks for letting me cry. 
Mom and Dad McVoy ­Get ready for our Saint Patty's Day party! Mom-Mike Wilson is com­ing to be your date. Dad -Mary said she'd be your date, but you'll have trouble getting a word in edge• wise. 
Three days. Just three days. 

Wednesday, March 7, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS 
2So/o Off 
all Notre Dame imprinted Clothing and Gifts 


HAMMES 
........
NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
ofl'1"oo,"'
IN THE ECK CENTER 
.,.o=

631-6316 
Must have student ID to receive discount. 
page 13 
NHL 

NHL looks to speed game, improve flow 
"The hardest part is getting
Associated Press 
consistency of application from our referees to 30 teams,
LA QUINTA, Calif. 

700 players and all the fans.
Hockey is one of sport's 

That's why there are always
fastest, most frenetic games ­
complaints with calls. That
until a whistle blows and the 
[getting the word around} isaction comes to a screeching 
our task. We've taken baby
halt. 
steps."
The NHL is considering ways Any changes in the way the

to cut down on stoppages ­
rules are enforced will have to
such as wait until at
goalies 
least next sea­

freezing the 
"Everyone likes to see a son. Campbell
puck when 
said the com­

there is no game with one 
mittee will

opponent continuous flow. The 
make a report

near -and 
players like to play in this summer.
keep the 
The idea isn't 

g a m e the game, the coaches 

to shorten the

going. like to coach it, the fans 
game, but to"I think 

like to see it. ·· keep it flowing. 
the general 
"C om-mer­

impression 
cials, we're not

is 'Let's Colin Campbell 
going to change

find a way 
NHL Director of Operations that. The 
to speed 
the game 
up within 
the game 
where there are less whis­
tles,"' Colin Campbell, NHL 
director of hockey operations, 
said Tuesday during a break 
in the league general man­
agers' meetings. 
"Everyone likes to see a 

game with one continuous 
flow. The players like to play 
in the game, the coaches like 
to coach it, the fans like to see 
it." 
Keeping the game moving 

does not necessarily require 
rule changes, but possibly just 
more delay of game calls in 
accordance with the existing 
rules. 
Campbell said that, during a session with some GMs on a committee to discuss the issue, these questions were raised: "Why try to bring in new rules to make the game continuous? What's going on with our pre­sent rules and how have they eroded: skaters shooting the puck on purpose into the stands; a skater on purpose falling on the puck; a goal­tender freezing the puck when there's no opponent near 
h. ?"
Im. 

He said the committee has been filtering through some suggestions and studying the results of a questionnaire sent around the league. 
"Why would we even consid­er blending new rules into the game, trying to figure out how to call them consistently, when we already have rules, whether they were put in there one year, five, 10, 15 years ago, that have been eroded," he said. 
"We've all seen games where the guy intentionally stops play to keep the puck in his hand. It was called years ago, but it's not now," Campbell said. 
length of the 
intermissions, 
we're not going 

to change that. But can we get 
the players to move the puck, 
not just stop the play? That's 
what we discussed," he said. 
Studies have shown that 
goalies freezing the puck is 
the most frequent cause of the 
game being stopped. 
If the league does decide to 
enforce some of the rules to 
speed up the game. it obvious­
ly will take some getting used 
to. 

"You let the players and offi­
cials know in training camp, in 
exhibition, and that's it. Then 
I don't think you'll see it hap­
pening much," Campbell said. 
He also said that the league was, at the behest of the play­ers' union, going to look again at how the fight-instigator rule might be modified to make it clearer. 
Also at Tuesday's session, the first of three days the gen­eral managers are meeting in this desert resort, Anaheim GM Pierre Gauthier said the Mighty Ducks were still trying to help Guy Hebert, the team's goalie since it came into the league in 1993, land with another team. 
Hebert became expendable Monday when the Ducks swapped Teemu Selanne to San Jose for goalie Steve Shields and left wing Jeff Friesen. 
Phoenix GM Cliff Fletcher said the Coyotes, who traded holdout goalie Nikolai Khabibulin to Tampa Ba.y on Monday for three players and a draft pick, are still shopping. His list includes a defenseman or two and maybe a wing ­all preferably young. 
"I think you saw in the big trade we made yesterday that we got a draft choice, a 19­year-old and a 21-year-old," Fletcher said. 
Write sports for the Observer. Call 631-4543. 
page 14 
MLB 

Ramirez swings 
\ 
' Pirates to victory
~ 
I 
) 
! 
Associated Press 
\ 
\ 
\ \ FORT MYERS, Fla. \ Aramis Ramirez continued his ~ 1 ) hot hitting and the Boston Red < Sox kept up their poor fielding 
! ~ 
~ 
as the Pittsburgh Pirates won 7 ­

~ 
3 Tuesday with six unearned runs. Ramirez went 2-for-3 with a 

I 
1 single, double and two RBIs. He is 7-for-11 with seven runs, 17 total bases and five RBIs in four \ spring training games. 
\ 
The Red Sox made three errors, giving them 11 in five games, four of them losses. Of the 39 runs they've allowed, 19 were unearned. 

I "It's early," .Boston manager 
I\ I Jimy Williams said. "We have 
I
. ( people out there who we know 
t I 
'1 
I can catch the ball." 
: l I.' ', Mike Lansing, filling in for injured shortstop Nomar Garciaparra, committed an 
I error with one out and no run­ners on in the first inning that led to two unearned runs. Brian Giles' double put runners at sec­
J 
ond and third. 

'\ 
.~ 
A wild pitch by loser Rolando Arrojo let in one run and anoth­er scored on Ramirez's ground­out to second. Meanwhile, win­ner Kris Benson got the Pirates off to a good start with three scoreless innings in which he struck out three, walked none and allowed two hits. 
Pittsburgh, which ended a three-game losing streak, got its only earned run in the fourth on a double by Ramirez, a wild pitch by Torno Ohka and a field­er's choice grounder by former Boston designated hitter Reggie Jefferson. 


A fifth-inning error by third baseman John Valentin led to three unearned runs that made the score 6-0. They came in on consecutive singles by Ramirez, Kevin Young and Jefferson. 
Boston scored in the sixth on Brian Daubach's double and Dante Bichette's RBI single off Terry Mulholland. 

Twins 8, Rangers 5 
Corey Koskie had three hits and three RBIs, making his 7­for-10 at the plate this spring, and the Minnesota Twins beat the Texas Rangers. 
Scott Sheldon's two-run homer for Texas off Willie Martinez tied the score 4-all in the fifth.· 
Minnesota went ahead in the sixth against Brian Sikorski on an RBI single by Mike Moriarty and a two-run homer by Michael Restovich. Both are non-roster players. 
Koskie had run-scoring singles in the first and in a three-run fourth. He added an RBI double in the ninth. 
Dodgers 8, Braves 4 
Chris Donnels hit a two-run homer off John Smoltz, making his first appearance since elbow surgery last spring, and the Los Angeles Dodgers beat the Atlanta Braves. 
Smoltz, who had a ligament in 
his right elbow replaced last 
March 23, threw 25 pitches, 
struck out two and walked two. 
He didn't feel any pain. 
"It felt great," he said. 
"There's a sense of joy and relief 
that this is step one of five 
games to get me ready for the 
season. And I want to be as 
ready as everyone else. I don't 
want to be looked upon like 
whatever happens is bonus. I'm 
excited about the way I threw 
the ball." 
Braves manager Bobby Cox 
called Donnels' home run a 
"popup" that was swept out by 
strong winds. 
"I thought he threw free and 
easy and was just outstanding," 
Cox said. "He looked poised and 
comfortable. Smoltzie made the 
whole day. I'll give up a win any­
time to see that." 
Los Angeles starter Darren 
Dreifort and Chan Ilo Park com­
bined for five hitless innings. 
Wednesday, March 7, 200 l 
The Observer . SPORTS 
~@tr® r!»@rmtt®'$ 1f@~ 1f®rffl 
~truictfi®tfflt ll®@ctfi®lf$ 
We are calling for nominatione for the top -t;en undergraduate s-t;udeni; leaders who best exemplify the spirit of N~re Dan:e in social, recreationat resident.1al, service and rellgious activities i;hai; promote the welfare of the University and extended communities. Selection af the recipients of these awards is based on outstanding service on or off campus i;hrough partici­pation in voluntary and/or (s)elected co­curricular aGtivitiee with an emphasis on 
quality of part-icipation. · 
Nom.inations are due by Wednesday. March 1-4. 2001 
Pleave 61;ap into the Student AGtivit.ies Office at 315 Lafortune for detailed Information 

Earth Systems Science and Astronomy programs are offered for Science and Non-science majors at Columbia University Biosphere 2 campus near Tucson, Arizona. 
ALL PROGRAMS TAUGHT BY COLUMBIA FACULTYi 

SCHOLARSHIPS AVAILABLE FOR NOTRE DAME STUDENTS! 

APPLY TO BIOSPHERE 2 FOR SUMMER SESSIONS NOW! 
Summer programs: 

• Earth Sy~tems Field School II -4 credits, June 2001 
• Summer of Stars -5 credits, June-July 2001 
• Earth Systems Field School I -6 credits, July-August 2001 
• Biodiversity Institute -5 credits, July-August 2001 
Visit Biosphere 2 at www.bio2.edu/education (800) 992-4603 or notre_dame@bio2.edu 


I 
i ,
) . 
I 
i I 
Wednesday, March 7, 2001 page 15
The Observer . SPORTS 
Awards 
continued from page 20 
Boston College from a 3-13 Big East record a year ago, the worst in the conference to 13-3 this season. the best of any team. 
"The two guys who were selected player of the year were from championship teams," Brey said. "I think it just sends a great message. It's so good when your individual award winners come from championship teams or teams that are in the hunt." 
In the process of rebuilding Boston College, the 6-1 sopho­more Bell scored 20.1 points per game. good for third in the Big East, and a third-best 2.6 steals per game. 
"I never envisioned myself being here so soon," Bell said. 
Eagles' coach Al Skinner also got credit for Boston College's turnaround, capturing Big East coach of the year. 
Seton Hall freshman Eddie Griffin won rookie of the year, after leading the Big East with 19 double-doubles and the nation with 4.5 blocks per game. 
Providence junior John 
Linehan. a point guard, won defensive player of the year. as the 
Friars improved from 4-12 in the league a year ago to 11-5 this season. 
Syracuse's Preston Shumpert and West Virginia's Calvin Bowman shared the award for Most Improved Players, with the voting slighting Notre Dame senior point guard Martin Ingelsby. 
Ingelsby, who played a limited reserve role a year ago, now averages 37.9 minutes per game as a team captain. He has posted the best assist-to-turnover ratio in the Big East at 3.49, while fin­ishing near the top of the league in assists. 
"I thought Martin was so deserving," Brey said. "I wanted it so bad for him -something, maybe most improved, maybe third team." 
Ingelsby seemed more inter­ested in getting more team wins than individual honors. The same goes for junior forward Ryan Humphrey, who was named to the third team All-Big East, but could have made a case for being a second team selection. Humphrey scored 14.3 
points and pulled down nine rebounds per game in his first season as a transfer from Oklahoma. 
''I've just got to take it as it comes," Humphrey said. "The only thing that matters are the team goals. As long as we win the championship, that's all that matters." 
While Brey thought Humphrey could have been picked a bit higher, he also thought Ingelsby or sophomore shooting guard Matt Carroll had the types of seasons worthy of all-conference selection. Then again, the Irish coach recognized that their snubs indicated the quality of Big East players. 
"There's a lot of good players in our league," Brey said. "They've really grasped winning and chasing a championship and going back to the NCAA Tournament. So the individual things have been brushed off pretty quickly, and they're going for the team goals." 
Big East Tournament play begins today. The Irish have a first-round bye, and will face the winner of tonight's Miami­Pittsburgh face off Thursday at 7 p.m. 


retirement choices?  
Discover the c~!:::!a;u, l tonsultati~;J TIAA-CREF Advantage.  
If you're a new faculty member or staff employee and not sure about your retirement plan choices, just contact TIAA-CREF. THE TIAA-CREFWe're the financial organization that's been dedicated for over 80 years to helping people in ADVANTAGE education and research reach their financial goals. Find out for yourself how TIAA-CREF provides: Investment Expertise ~·Low Expenses• Easy diversification among arange of expertly managed funds Customized• A solid history of performance and exceptional personal service Payment Options • A strong commitment to low expenses • Plus, a full range of flexible retirement income Expert Guidance options ~h.~'"'"'°''" .' -,... ...,. So call us for a free information package or just talk to one of your colleagues. You'll find that choosing your retirement plan provider is simple when you go with the leader: TIAA-CREF.  
Ensuring the future for those who shape it.111ii  1.800.842.2776 www.tiaa-cref.org  
For more complete information on our securities products, call 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5509, for prospectuses. Read them carefully before you invest. • TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. and Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc. distribute securities products. • Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association (TIAA). New York, NY and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co., New York, NY issue insurance and annuities.• TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services. • Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are not bank guaranteed.© 2001 Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association-College Retirement Equities Fund, New York, NY 01/04  

Attention: New faculty members and staff 
Unsure about your 
···••· .. 




NHL 
Gretzky, Coyotes see big changes 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX 

Not even a month has passed in the Wayne Gretzky era. yet the Phoenix Coyotes have already fired and hired a gener­aI manager and traded the team's holdout goalie. 
On Monday night. Phoenix sent goaltender Nikolai Khabibulin and defenseman Stan Neckar to the Tampa Bay Lightning for defenseman Paul Mara, for­wards Mike Johnson and Ruslan Zainullin and a second-round draft choice. 
The first major player move made on the watch of managing partner Gretzky may just have been a way to unload one of the two All-Star goalies in Phoenix. 
But speculation also remains that this could be the beginning of a number of deals the team will make to reduce its payroll before next Tuesday's NHL trad­ing deadline. 
Coyotes GM Cliff Fletcher said Tuesday he will "absolutely" make additional moves but hedged as to whether they would occur before the deadline. He has spoken with several gen• eral managers concerning Phoenix captain Jeremy Roenick and leading scorer Keith Tkachuk, both of whom Fletcher believes will still be members of the Coyotes on ·wednesday night. 
"We're looking at it with an open mind," he said of the possi­bility of trading Tkachuk. Fletcher said the offer would have to be perfect to let go of a player who's on pace to score 40 goals for the fourth straight sea­son. 
"I don't know if that deal's there. If not, he's a very good hockey player and we're happy to have him." 
Fletcher was more definitive about the immediate future of Roenick, who becomes an unre­stricted free agent at the end of the season and has been negoti­ating with the Coyotes. 
"You know nothing's going to happen before the trading dsad­line," Fletcher said from a GMs meeting in La Quinta, Calif. "There's no situation here where we would say: 'If you don't sign before the trading deadline, we're trading you.' That's not an issue." 
Trading Roenick and Tkachuk has been mentioned as a way to offset a financial burden incurred by the new owners. Principal owner Steve Ellman said the Coyotes will lose $20 million by year's end while play­ing in an arena with many limit­ed-view seats. He also went through a series of deadline extensions to secure the $90 million needed for last month's purchase. 
Tkachuk commands $8.3 mil­lion this season, but Gretzky said last month he wants him to stay. 
"I hope to build a team around Keith Tkachuk," he said. ''I've said that from Day 1." 
Gretzky also made a commit­ment last year to keep Khabibulin, the second-win­ningest goalie in franchise histo­ry. But with Khabibulin's high salary demands and the stellar play of Sean Burke -who has almost single-handedly kept Phoenix in the playoff hunt ­
· the five-year starting netminder became expendable. "The numbers Nik was throw­ing out were respectable, but we couldn't bite the bullet," Gretzky said. "It's good for him, but we had to better our hockey team, and we're getting some young guns to help." Youth has become a top priori­ty for the Coyotes, who recently lost 35-year-old forward Claude Lemieux to an ankle injury for the remainder of the regular season. Fletcher, who took over for Bobby Smith just two days after Gretzky became managing part­ner, said the team's wish list includes a winger and a couple of def ensemen. Three-time· All-Star Teppo Numminen is out with an ankle injury and the Coyotes have suf­fered through a five-game win­less streak in which they have yielded 25 goals. 
Red Wings topple Canucks 4-3 
Associated Press 
VANCOUVER 
Steve Yzerman scored twice as the Detroit Red Wings continued their dominance of the Vancouver Canucks with a 4-3 victory Tuesday night. 
Yzerman made it 3-1 on the power play at 15:43 of the second period, then added the eventual game­winner 4:25 into the third on a one-timer from the slot. 
Martin Lapointe added a goal and an assist, and Mathieu Dandenault also scored for the Red Wings, who haven't lost to Vancouver in more than three years. 
Markus Naslund scored his 38th goal, and Ed Jovanovski and Daniel Sedin added power-play goals for the Canucks, who fell to 0-13-3 against Detroit since Feb. 6, 1997. 
Naslund made it 4-3 with 5:30 left to play. 
The Canucks had several chances to get even after they pulled goalie Dan Cloutier. and went on a power play. But Vancouver couldn't get the tying goal past Manny Legace. 

Legace finished with 20 saves to improve to 19-5­4. 
The Hed Wings, who have lost just once in 14 games (11-1-3-0), moved one point ahead of St. Louis for first place in the Central Division. 
Detroit finished 1-for-7 on the power play. but scored twice just after a man-advantage expired. 
Jovanovski staked the Canucks to a 1-0 lead mid­way through the first peri­od, but Lapointe tied it at 
14: 59. just two seconds after Naslund stepped out of the penalty box. 
Dandenault gave the Hed Wings the lead for good with a wrist shot from the slot 7 :31 into the second period, six seconds after a Vancouver penalty expired. 
Danie[ Sedin made it 3-2 and moved into a tie for the rookie goal-scoring lead when he tipped twin brother Henrik's point shot past Legace with 1:30 left in the second period for his 18th goal. 

Need a ride to a Chicago airport on Friday, March 9th? 
I 
i 
I 
! 
{ 
~ 
f f 
~­
l lI ~ 
r 
I 
I 
) ( ! 
t 
(
i i 
! I t ~ ~ I 
i ~ 
I 
t
I { 
x 
I ~ 
I I ; t >I 
I 
I 
) 

I  I t '  
i'  
I  
i  I (  --­ 

Wednesday, March 7, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
HOCKEY 
Freshman Lebda named to CCHA all-rookie team 
Hockey Association's all-rookie Lebalda finished the season as
Special to the Observer 
team for the 2000-01 season. the CCHA's highest scoring rook­Two teammates, freshman ie defenseman with seven goalsNotre Dame freshman defense­center Aaron Gill and freshman and 19 assists for 26 points.
man Brett Lebda has been 
Rob Globke were awarded hon­Those numbers also rank Lebdaselected to the Central Collegiate orable mentions. second among all CCHA defense-
I 

the .Q,J:JJ~ngexperience presenting the latest fashion trend~ budgeting tips and cutting edge ideas from Michiana spremiere vendors. 

t~ritUty center 
I 





produced by ProShow and Celebrated Events '-~~~,/ r-~• /-f jr-tor t-n \J'J-; r-"l 
11

a ~andals res(?rt honeym6t>'ni ptic'Kiig~Y :
\j' Drawmg will be held at 4:30 m the Vendor Pavilion. Must be present to win. 
General admission VIP ticket holders 
12:00pm -5:00pm 10:00am -5:00pm
$5 per person at the door $10 per person (advance purchase only) 

Seminars and panel discussions 
limited to 200 guests 
with the professionals 

Guests will have exclusive time with vendors Main fashion show at 3:00pm from 70amtonoon Private fashion show from 71 am to noon 
contact 

Jessica Saras at ProShow, 271-7 469 for VIP tickets and more information 

HAMMES 

NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
631-6316 

Store Hours for Spring Break 
Saturday, March 10 9:00am -7:00pm Sunday, March 11 11:00am -7:00pm Monday, March 12 through Saturday, March 1 7 9:00am -7:00pm Sunday, March 18 11:00am -7:00pm Monday, March 19 Normal Store Hours 9:00am -10:00pm 
men in the scoring column trail­ing only Michigan's Jeff Jillson (10--18-28). 
Among Lebda's seven goals two were power play goals. two were shorthanded goals and one was a game-winning goal. The offensive-minded defenseman finished third on the team with 112 shots on goal. 
In December, the 5-10, 195­pound blueliner became the first Notre Dame player since 1994 to score five points in a game when he had a goal and four assists in a 7-3 Irish win at Nebraska­Omaha. 
A product of the U.S. Under­18 developmental team, Lebda is the fifth Notre Dame player to be named to the CCHA all-rookie team. He joins current team­mate, David Inman (1998-99) along with Mark Eaton (1997­98). Joe Dusbabek (1996-97) and Jamie Ling {1992-93) to receive the honor. He is the sec­ond Notre Dame defenseman named to the team, joining Eaton who is currently playing for the Nashville Predators in the National Hockey League. 
Lebda was selected as a CCHA rookie of the week on Feb. 25 for his play in Notre Dame's games at Alaska-Fairbanks when he had a goal and three assists, helping the Irish to a tie and a victory. 
Gill scored 11 goals with 15 assists for 26 points while Globke scored 1 7 goals and added nine assists for 26 points. His 17 goals were second among CCHA rook­ies behind Jeff Campbell's 23. 


All three Notre Dame fresh­men finished the year with 26 points to tie for third in team scoring. This marks the first time since the 1978-79 season that three freshmen finished the year with 25 or more points in one season. 
The CCHA rookie-of-the­year Award will be announced on Thursday, March 15 at the CCHA Awards Banquet in Detroit, Mich. 
The 2000-01 CCHA all-rook­ie team: 
Forward -Jeff Campbell (Western Michigan) Forward ­Dave Steckel (Ohio State) Forward -R.J. Umberger (Ohio State) Defense Mike Komisarek {Michigan) Defense -Brett Lebda (Notre Dame) Goaltender -Dan Ellis (Nebraska-Omaha) 
Honorable Mention: 
Forwards -Derek Edwardson (Miami), Aaron Gill (Notre Dame), Rob Globke (Notre Dame). Defense -Doug Andress (Ohio State), Andy Burnes (Michigan), Mike Gabinet (Nebraska-Omaha), Mike Jarmuth (Western Michigan). Felipe Larranaga (Alaska­Fairbanks). Goaltender -Craig Kowalski (Northern Michigan), Preston McKay (Alaska­Fairbanks) 
Sponsored by Arts Collective For more info. e-mail Arts Collective at thearts.1@nd.edu 
BLOOD DRIUE TODDY 
9 am -4 pm no Room in Lafortune Walk-Ins Welcome 
Hosted by the Hrnold Hir Society 
,_, _____ 
,, 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, March 7, 2001 


BASEBALL 
Heilman tosses shut-out, notches ninth Big East honor 
than four player or pitcher of through spring training territo• Wave offense that already had The next batter recorded the
Special to the Observer 
the week awards in his career ry-and with Florida Atlantic ace posted wins this season over the fifth hit off Heilman, who then (including one in 1998, three in Petersen Benjamin going for the Miami Hurricanes and ended the game with his ninth
Notre Dame senior 

1999 and Blue Wave-Heilman fashioned Oklahoma State. He faced just K.
righthander Aaron Heilman has four in the March 1 shutout in often five batters over the minimum Heilman kept his pitchesreceived his ninth career Big 2000). dominating fashion, blanking {32). thanks to a double play in down in the zone for most of theEast Conference pitcher-of-the­With plen­FAU at Florida Power Park dur­the fifth inning and an earlier day, as just six balls left theweek award, after tossing the 
ty of profes·­ing the Devil Rays College rundown play. infield. His 27 outs included thefirst nine-inning shutout of his 
s ion al Invitational. After working out of a fifth­nine Ks, 11 groundball outscareer in Friday's 3-0 win over scouts in Heilman scattered five hits inning jam, the 6-5, 225-(two on !'l, double play) and just
Florida Atlantic, in St. 
attendance and one walk over the nine pounder retired 13 of the next two flyouts, plus two infield
Petersburg, Fla. 
for last innings while striking out nine 14 batters before second base­popups, two infield lineouts and 
Since the Big East awards 

week's batters in his economical 110-man Steve Sollmann's fielding the rundown play (one of FAU'sbegan in 1985, Heilman is the s w i n g pitch outing, versus a Blue error with two outs in the ninth. five hits was an infield single). 
only individual to amass more 
SOFTBALL 
Schmidt earns first Big East award 
ries lowered her season-ERA
Special to the Observer 
to 1.46. Against Jacksonville State on
Freshman righthander 

Friday, March 2, Schmidt
Kristin Schmidt has earned 
pitched 6.1 innings, striking
her first career BIG EAST 
out eight and giving up justweekly pitching award. The one run.
Irish freshman was named co­
Facing UAB on Saturday,pitcher of the week on 
March 3, (the Blazers enteredMonday, March 5, by the Big 
the game 2-0 in the tourna­
East Conference for her per­
ment) Schmidt used her
formance versus Jacksonville change-up to baffle hitters allState and UAB last weekend. 
afternoon. She struck out
Schmidt shares this week's 
seven in the first four innings
award with Clarisa Crowell 
and gave up just three hits.
from Virginia Tech. 
Schmidt has combined with Schmidt improved to 5-1 this 
-BIG COMMON ROOM WITH BAR  
-VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS  
-NEAR OTHER STUDENT HOUSES  
-SECURITY SYSTEM  
-WASHER & DRYER  CONTACT KRAMER  
-HEAT INCLUDED IN RENT  (219) 298-9673 CELL PHONE  
(219) 234-2436 OFFICE  
(219) 674-2572 VOICE MAIL  

Jen Sharron (Agoura Hills,
season with two victories at 
Calif.) to post an 11-1 record
the Frost Classic in 
Chattanooga, Tenn.. March 2­Dame's two top starting pitch­

3. She struck out 15 batters in 

ers. Both hurlers also have
11 innings pitched, yielding 

combined to post 91 strikeoutsjust one run and scattering 10 this season.
hits. Her two impressive victo-

Attention: ND, SMC, HCC Students, Faculty, and Staff 


{ 1 
' 
!. 
, 

DOMUS PROPERTIES HAS A 10 BEDROOM HOUSE 
-4 BATH, 3 KITCHENS 
ALSO LEASING HOUSES FOR 2002-2003 SCHOOL YEAR 
111111111111~11illRJ! Your parents brought you up and made a Notre Dame education possible. Don't you owe them this? 

Senior "Thank You" Plaques 
• 
Two lines ofpersonalization 


• 
Only $ 35.00, this price will increase after break 

• 
Discounts offered on additional plaques 

• 
Look for us in the College of Business atrium: 

• 
Tuesday March 6th I 1-1pm 

• 
Wednesday March ih 11-1 pm 



• 
Look for us Wednesdays in Alumni/Senior Bar! 


Please pick a line ofpersonalization: Name: (As it will appear on the plaque) 
. 
"Thank you Mom and Dad" 

. 
'"Thank you, Mom" School address: City:

. 
"Thank you, Dad" 

. 
"Thank you, [Other] ($5 charge. Must> 22 characters including spaces) State: Zip: Phone: 


This year's quotation: "Education is not the filling ofa bucket, it is the lighting of a fire." -William Butler Yeats Thank you [your choice] for providing the spark. For more information check out: http://www.nd.edu/"'mgtclub 
Please make checks payable to the ND Management Club, 200 LaFortune, Notre Dame, IN 46556 




section 14 Start of a magician's cry  31 In total agreement (with) 32 Dissenting votes  45 Schumann work 46 Slugger in 1961 news  53 University founder Cornell 54 Marsh plant  
-=+'""1-:::"f  17 Pitc~er Hideo  33  _  many words  48 Bother  55 Members of a  
34 Filmdom's  49 Suffix in nuclear  fast fleet  
21 Jefferson or  Ethan or Joel  physics  58 Prefix with  
Edison: Abbr.  36 Relative of  51 Adm. Zumwalt  angular  
23 Whodunit start  "Hurrah!"  
.....+...,...,.....,,... 25 Roll call misser .,..+~~ 26 Hermitic  37 Shop area 40 Nebr. neighbor  Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone:  
-=+~::"f  27 Bean counter's concern  41 Explorer Vespucci  1 ·900-420-5656 (95e per minute). Annual subscriptions are available for the  
____..,.  29 Bargain  43 Fool  best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50  
M O C O  basement unit  44 Quite the fan  years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.  


Tuesday, February 7, 2001 
The Observer . TODAY page 19 
TYLER

FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 

TIME TO ACT LIKE I'M @#'M.$1 THEY'RE WAKING
zzzzzzzz 

PAYING ATT~ON SO UPI TIME FOR SOME THAT THE PROFESSOR POWE:RPOINT SUbES DOESN'T NOTICE ME 
Chan9e the. "k> nt... -tne.n 1f\c.f'to.~e, ·-u,e.. font 6tle froM l i. to 32. I:'\\ jot,'\' f'loke. 
'the. M~l~III~ A ldt~ '"~· And -t~t .5nootd do it.
---.... 
l(!,I\ p~e,. /J' ~ 

Fox TROT BILL AMEND 
NICOLE'S COM• IC. 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Believing that 57 Millionaire the universe makers
1 Cracker toppers 
has a soul

6 ~Dirty" activity 59 Cacophony 35 Thunder Bay's 
1 O Director's call 60 Capone rival 
prov.

13 Javelin, for one 61 Plume source 
36 Place to put the 

14 Having a strong 62 Legal
feet up

resemblance conclusion? 
38 Lennon's love

15 Botanist Gray 63 Jump over 
39 Uncages

16 Nurse's office 64 Places for forks supply 41 Semicircular recess
18 Difficulty, to the 
DOWN 
Bard 42 Theater name 1 Amount of19 Like a 43 Victim of hair trouble? gardener's pants loss? 2 Bristol's county 20 Stellar 45 Austen heroine 3 Head overseas22 MRocky II" climax 47 Water current in 
4 Penetrated
the same direction as the 5 Put on board 
24 Links unit 
25 Light reflection 
wind 6 Mole, maybe
ratio 28 Bomb squad 50 Windy one 7 A litt' squirt? worker 52 Gun 8 "I r .,n't Say manufacturers N musical
30 Modeling medium 56 Mentalist Geller 9 · .mus 
1' Redheads ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 1 Bar order, with "the" 
Puzzle by David Alnalle Macleod 

12 Spreadsheet 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
P.O. Box Q
and mail to: Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
-
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name _____________________ Address ___________________ City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON Try to control your reactions. 00 THIS DAY: Willard Scott, Tammy VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Faye Bakker, Janet Guthrie, Tay­Deception involving in-laws or lor Dane, John Heard so-called friends.may be.some• 
Happy Birthday: Look before what upsetting today. You will do you leap. You always want to do well if you concentrate on organi­all and be all, but this year you zational tasks. 000 will have to be a little more spe­LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): cific about what you can and New romantic partners are likely should do. You may feel an if you take the initiative at group urgency to forge ahead, but with­functions. Make sure you check out the proper groundwork, you out their credentials before you may be disappointed in the out­become too attached. They aren't come. Plan your actions carefully likely to be as they appear. Don't and you'll have no regrets or lost let others cost you dearly. 0000 -­time. Your numbers: 15, 19, 23, 25, SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 28, 32 Don't let your jealous nature get 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): the better ofyou. Arguments with Don't overspend on entertain­your partner will lead to estrange­ment or luxury items. Difficulties ment. You need to be more toler­with older individuals will make ant when your mate wants to you angry. Put in extra time if spend time with others. 00 you have fallen behind in your SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): duties. 000 Someone you meet while travel­
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): ing will intrigue you. Don't be Coarse language in your home afraid to make the first move. will not be acceptable. You will Regardless of how far this con­feel like getting away if the ten­nection goes, it will be well worth sion escalates. You are better off your wliile. 00000 doing things with friends than CAPRICORN (Dec. 22•Jan. 19): with family. 00 Investments will not be clear-cut, 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Do research if you want to spare· Social activity with friends and rel­yourself a financial loss. You need atives will be most successful. Get to be careful not to take on too involved in children's activities. many responsibilities. 000 They will teach you far more than AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): you imagined possible. 0000 Don't be depressed; get moving. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): It's time to make changes to elim­You will have a greater concern inate the things that make you with financial matters. Use your sad. Join groups that will pro­creative awareness to come up mote new friendships. 000 with ideas that will bring you PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): extra cash. 000 Don't helieve everything you hear 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your at work. A co-worker may just be dramatic approach to emotional trying to upset the rest 0£ you. Go matters may alienate you from the to the source if you really want to ones you love. Don't let others find out what's going on. 000 blame you for things you d.idn't do. 
Birthday Baby: You have the looks, the pi.zzazz and the charm to take you to the top if you put in the effort. Your creative imagination will enable you to envision what you want out of life. See it, believe it, become it. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at utroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) C 2001 Universal Press,Syndicate 


Nine Lives 

Notre Dame pitcher Aaron Heilman was named Big East pitcher ofthe week for the ninth time in his career. 
page 18 

O
THE page 20 BSERVER Wednesday, March 7, 2001 
WOMEN'S BIG EAST TOURNAMENT 
Bird flies over Irish 
Last second shot hands Huskies Big East Tourney 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Assistnat Sports Editor 
STORRS. CONN. 
So they said Sue Bird was injured. 

On Monday, Connecticut's point guard sat out her team's Big East semifinal win over Rutgers with a sore back. Tuesday, the junior made a last-second lay-up to give the Huskies (28-2, 15-1) their ninth consecutive Big East Tournament championship, topping the Irish (28-2, 15-1) 76-74. 
The Huskies' victory avenged a Jan. 15 loss to the Irish in the Joyce Center, the only time the Irish have ever beaten the Huskies. 
With 5.1 seconds remaining, Ruth Riley hit a free throw to tie the game at 74. Bird took the inbounds pass and sprinted the length of the court. She took the ball right at Riley in the lane, letting it fly high above the rim. 
Nothing but net. 
Who said Sue Bird was injured? 

"I saw Ruth stepping up with her hand up and I thought she was going to get a piece and it was going to be an airball," Irish head coach Muffet McGraw said. 
Said Bird: "I definitely have a lot of confi­dence in that type of situation. I caught the ball and I just went." 
The shot provided the perfect climax in an exciting game that featured six lead changes and four ties. Connecticut twice led by as many as eight points, but Notre Dame kept storming back. 
see HOOPS/page 12 

Irish, Huskies play a game for the ages 
STORRS, CONN. 

And so this conference championship game culminated with an injured Sue Bird driving down court, stopping for a split second. falling away, and connecting on a front-rim grazing, game­winning prayer. How appropriate. 
One possible season­ending injury, two buzzer­beaters. six All-Big East performers, and enough excitement that made even the normally reserved Alicia Ratay show some emotion. 
Who said the female version of Dr. James Naismith's century-old sport was boring? 
"I felt like every play, the way the crowd was reacting, was the game-winning play," Bird said. "Even every time we would hit just a sim­ple lay-up." 
In the sports journalism field, superlatives are written more frequently than nouns. We tend to over-hype, overanalyze and over criti­cize. Even unimportant regular season games are treated like something special. 
But Tuesday night's final? 
Forgive the following: It may have been the most memorable game in conference history. By this weekend, ESPN will probably deem it 

Tim Casey 
Assitant Sports Editor 
see ClASSIC/page 12 

MEN'S BIG EAST TOURNAMENT 
Murphy claims Big East player of the year after tournament 
guard Troy Bell. get the nod over Bell, particular­tion in 1983, but shared it with game. He also pushed the Irish 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
"This year was really a team ly after Notre Dame beat Boston Georgetown's Patrick Ewing in to win their first ever banner, as 
Associate Sports Editor 
effort," Murphy said. "If they College in head-to-head competi­1984 and 1985. they won the Big East West 
needed me to rebound the ball, I tion, but the two players shared Connecticut's Richard Division with an 11-5 division 
NEW YORK, N.Y. tried to do the wealth. Hamilton, who captured the record. 
There were a few prerequi­
that. If they "Troy Bell had a great year," honor in '98 and '99, shared it "I think this one means more sites for Big East player of the needed me Murphy said. "He's definitely with Miami's Tirn Janes in '99. than last year, even though you year this season. to make the deserving of being player of the "Everybody wants to kind of shared it, because we're part of 
The winner needed to lead his pass. I tried year. I was maybe surprised that give it to another person," a championship run," Irish coach team in scoring, play for a divi­to do that. I they didn't have three guys. Murphy said of winning multiple Mike Brey told Murphy. sion-champion team and have did whatever Michael Bradley [Villanova] had times. "You have a higher stan­Murphy, whose parents Jim previously won the award for the team a heck of a year." dard held to you. They say you and Christine, were both in Big East Rookie of the Year. needed from Murphy, a 6-foot-11 junior, were player of the year last year. attendance, has yet to go home 
One more thing, his name had me, rather became one of just four players People are gunning for you; you empty-handed from a Big East to be Troy. Murphy than last to win the award multiple times, have a bull's-eye on your back. It award ceremony. The New 
Luckily, Notre Dame forward year, when I as he was the sole selection a does make it more satisfying." Jersey native won Rookie of the Troy Murphy filled all the just tried to year ago. None of the previous This year, Murphy led the Big Year his freshman season. requirements as he shared the score a lot." repeat-winners won more than East in scoring with 22.6 points Bell joined Murphy by taking honor of Big East player of the Many thought Murphy, a one outright award. St. John's' per game and finished fourth in year with Boston College's point returning All-American would Chris Mullin was the Ione selec-rebounding with 9.3 boards per see AWARDS/page 15 
• 
Big East Tournament Men's Lacrosse 
\~/)( vs. Miami/Pitt at Rutgers 
Thursday, 6:40 p.m. Friday, 3 p.m. m~ vs. Michigan
ATA .-) Saturday, 11 a.m. 
SPORTS 
Baseball

vs. Michigan at Pacific
Thursday, 4 p.m. 

GLANCE (lJ --­
Saturday, 1 p.m. 


i 
' ! I 
I 
-i 
,l
._:[ ! 
I 
I 
I 
J 
',• \:.,:~. 
' 
f;j 
,<,_.:.\ .\ 

<£ ,1.) 
page 2 Wednesday, March 7, 2001 
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
Sizing up the competition 

Connecticut Huskies 
West Virginia 
Pittsburgh Panthers 
If the Huskies earn two Big The Panthers, the No. 5 seed
Mountaineers
East victories this weekend, in the West division, have putThe No. 4 seed in the
the East's No. 6 team could their season back togetherWest, the Mountaineers,
deliver head coach Jim with three wins in four gamesare smarting after their 31­
Calhoun his 600th-career win. after suffering a season-worstpoint loss Saturday to the
But that will be a formidable four-game slide. With a losing
top seed in the East ­
task c:1:s it fo.cei. stiff conference record in the Big East, the
Boston College. But West
competition. The Huskies lost a Panthers could set themselves
Virginia's first round com­
close one to Seton Hall last up for a huge upset win in the
petition, Villanova, could
weekend and are 3-2 in. their second round against the Irish 
prove to be just as tough.
last five outings. Connecticut if they can dispose of the
The two teams battled it
will face Syracuse in Hurricanes in round one. 
out in a double-overtimeWednesday's opening round. 
brawl Feb. 20 in Morgantown. The Moun­taineers came out on top 

Seton Hall Pirates
Georgetown Hoyas then and will look to do it 

The No. 6 seed in the WestThe No. 20 Hoyas muscled again. 
has struggled in the Big Easttheir way to a first-round bye 
all year. Dropping 11 games to
with a win over the Irish last 
conference foes, the Piratesweekend. The big men down 
...~...'lJ,.w;"""" 

Boston College Eagles 
have stagnated at the bottom
low have led the Hoya squad to / t . , The Eagles are one of the 
of the Big East rankings alla 23-6 (10-6) season record. 
r/ A. .,., / teams to beat this week as 
season long. Facing St. John'sWinning four out of their last 
i -1 they clinched the Eastern 
in the first round, Seton Hall
six outings, the Hoyas are '/ . 
:• .... division title with a 13-3 
will need an outstanding per­primed for tournament action. I, ' -7 
conference record. Boston formance all around and espe­Georgetown will face the win­
College trounced West 
cially from freshman forwardner of the St. John's-Seton Hall 
Virginia last weekend as a 
Eddie Griffin to pull off an
game Thursday. 

solid ending to the regular upset. 
season. Guard Troy Bell is one of the best in the league and has spearheaded the Eagles' turnaround this sea­
St. John's Red Storm 
LJ 
Miami Hurricanes 
son. The team finished 3-13 The East's No. 3 seed, the RedWith 80 wins in the last four 
in the Big East last year. Storm, gave Boston College aseasons, the Hurricanes are 
scare last week as it almost
always a team to reckon with. 
upset the No. 9 Eagles before
Split with an 8-8 conference 
falling 67-62. St. John's suf­record, Miami has had its share of 
fered another heartbreaker
ups and downs this season. The Sunday when it fell to SyracuseEast's No. 4 seeded Hurricanes 
Syracuse Orangemen in double overtime. Two close
will face Pittsburgh, the fifth seed The No. 19 Orangemen conference losses could have thein the West in first round action. 
earned the third spot in the 14-13 team more hungry thanMiami finished the regular season AtftllflCS West division after finish­usual for a big win. The Redstrong, winning four of its last five ~· 
ing the season with 22-7 Storm is the favorite againstgames down the stretch. If the 
(10-6) record. The Seton Hall. 
Hurricanes win they will face the Orangemen lost their rightIrish in round two. 
to a first-round bye after Georgetown beat Notre Dame Sunday to earn an VIiianova WIidcats

Providence Friars 
With a 21-8 (11-5) record, the automatic bid to the second With only two wins in their last Friars earned the No. 2 spot in round. The Orangemen will w1rn5Ars five outings, the Wildcats are hun­
have to topple Connecticut
the East division and a first-round ~ :.. ,. . .-. gry for a win. Their first round 
before moving ahead in the
bye in the tournament. This sea­competition West Virginia makes 
~ ;1 ' • ' 

tournament.
son has proven to be a landmark them even hungrier for victory. one for the squad -it is the first The Wildcats gave the time the team has earned 20 wins Mountaineers a run for their in a season prior to the confer­money in Morgantown two weeks ence tournament. Their first ago, but couldn't come up with round bye is also a first for the enough points when the buzzer 
Friars. They will match up sounded. The East's No. 5 seed, Thursday against the winner of Villanova, holds a 5-3 edge in Big the Syracuse-Connecticut first­East competition against West round game. Virginia 
E 1 Boston Colle w 1 Notre Dame w 4 West Virginia E 4 Miami 
Es Villanova w s Pittsbur h 

E 3 St.John's 

W3 ruse 
Es Connecticutw s Seton Hall 
Final 

w 2 Georgetow E 2 Providence
Saturday, March 10 8 p.m. (ESPN) 

First Round Quarterfinals Semifinals Semifinals Quarterfinals First Round 
Wednesday, March 7 Thursday ,March 8 Friday, March 9 Friday, March 9 Thursday ,March 8 Wednesday, March 7 Teams are ranked by division. E =East W =West 



Wednesday, March 7, 2001 
The Observer . PREVIEW page 3 
Hungry Irish storm into New York looking for title 
By KERRY SMITH Sports Editor 
The trophy had already switched positions in the locker room. The markings on the banner had been earned and the T-shirts had already been printed up. Notre Dame was just waiting for the final buzzer of Sunday's game against Georgetown to sound to official­ly step into the limelight with its first Big East division title. 
Motivation was lacking -and the No. 13 Irish played like it in their 79-72 loss to the No. 20 Boyas. 
"We won [the division] a week ago by 30 points," Irish power forward Troy Murphy said. "The trophy was here three or four days ago. We should have definitely focused more on this." 
But regardless of an end-of­the-season slide with two straight conference losses, the Irish will turn their focus to something they have not earned yet -to a trophy they want, but need to play for -The Big East Conference title. 
Heading to New York this week, the Irish have earned a bye in the tournament's first round and will first step on the court Thursday against the win­ner of today's Miami/Pittsburgh matchup. 
And the Irish are confident that they have not lost any momentum heading into the postseason. 
"We're No. 1 in our division," Irish forward David Graves said. "You can say it's wide open -like the whole season has been with a lot of upsets that you couldn't predict -but we believe that we can win the Big East Tournament. We have every intention of adding anoth­
"We,re No. I in our division. You can say it's wide open ... but we believe that we can win the Big East Tournament. We have every intention ofadding another banner in the Joyce Center." 
David Graves Irish forward 
er banner in the Joyce Center." 
That confidence in ability and excitement about the possibili­ties the postseason offers for his squad is what head coach Mike Brey expects from his 19-8 team. 
"The guys don't feel as tired and the bumps and bruises don't hurt as much in March," Brey said. "They'll tell you that. There's a bounce in their step even though they've logged so many miles." 
The miles the Irish have logged have been tough ones. Brey's squad turned up the heat in the season's early going, amassing a 9-2 record before entering into the conference schedule. The team hit some stumbling blocks, however, when they lost three out of four on the road in the midseason to Syracuse, Seton Hall and Kentucky. The Irish looked on par to finish the regular season on a roll with eight consecutive wins in the Big East, but have dropped three of their last five to Seton Hall, Connecticut and Georgetown. 
Despite the setbacks of late, the Irish are convinced they are as sharp as ever. 
"I don't think we've lost an edge,'' Murphy said, "We won 19 games this year. This is 
where we should be. Nineteen 
wins. I think we're all right." 
Ready or not, the Irish have a 
formidable task ahead of them. 
In order to capture the confer­
ence championship, the team 
needs to come up with three 
wins in three days -a tiring 
thought for a squad that relies 
heavily on a six-man rotation. 
The Irish will stick with their 
usual starting line-up of 
Murphy, forwards Harold 
Swanagan and Ryan Humphrey, 
and guards Matt Carroll and 
Martin Ingelsby. Graves, who 
lost his starting position this 
season will continue to play a 
dominant role off the bench. 
"[Graves] is one of the biggest positives [on the team]," Brey said. "He's confident and I think we have him in a good frame of mind. We're going to need all six ready to go." 
Even if all six key players are primed for playing time, the Irish may need to look to their bench more than usual the fur­ther they advance and the more. tired the players get throughout the tournament. 
Brey will look to reserves for­ward Jere Macura and guard Torrian Jones to give the key unit a rest. 
"Jere and Torrian have been good," Brey said. "We don't go in with preconceived minutes for each player. We have to have them ready to play. They've learned the last five weeks to be ready even if they haven't been rewarded with big minutes. Three straight games would be difficult. Jere and Torrian will need to steal some minutes for us." 
But before the Irish can worry about multiple games, they have to pass the first test Thursday night. 
Brey's squad plans to concen­trate on their intensity level and quickness to outmatch either the No. 4 seed in the East ­Miami -or the No. 5 seed in the West-Pittsburgh. 
"[We're going to need] quick­ness to the basket and quick­ness in the lane," Brey said. "[Teams] beating us to the ball has bit us a few times this sea­son. That's something we need to identify in New York and identify beyond." 
But Brey and the Irish are 

hungry for another banner to hang up in the Joyce Center and are ready to earn it this week­end. 
"I think we'll be ready to play," Brey said. "I'm glad we're playing on Thursday because the team could use a little bit of rest. It will give us an advantage to be rested and get in the right mood. We'll go to the banquet, get into the atmosphere and be ready." 

• 

01n 
• 


It's that easy. 
Check out The Observer's online classifieds at http://observer.nd.edu for NCAA Tournament ticketS. 

page 4 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, March 7, 2001 
Ingelsby makes good on senior season 

Ingelo;;by said. "We went out to dinner and just talked basketball. He said, 'I couldn't have been more happy to hear that I have a senior point guard.' He gave me a lot of confidence in myself, and he gave me the ball from day one. From day one, I knew that this was my team and I was going to be the point guard." 
Brey and Ingelsby clicked from the start. Their personalities were similar, both calm and collected, laid-back yet focused. 
"I think our demeanors are similar," Brey said. "He's the perfect point guard for me, that's all I know. I have the utmost confidence in him." 
While Brey trusted Ingelsby's abilities from the start, many others were not as upbeat. 
Fans and preseason magazines alike ragged on Notre Dame's team captain, knocking him as the one weak link in an otherwise strong Irish team. They ques­tioned his speed, his defensive ability, his capacity to counter former high school All­Americans in the Big East. 
But if Ingelsby hadn't given up on him­self the year before, he saw no reason to start now. 
"I took that as a challenge to go out and prove myself, that I could play at this level and play at this level well," Inge Isby said. "I think I've done that so far this year, and I think those people are quiet now." 
Ingelsby's half right. The naysayers aren't quiet, but they're not critical, either; they're outspoken in their support for the senior, and with good reason. 
"I think he's surpassed all the expecta­tions we had for him this year," junior for­ward Troy Murphy said. 
He's maneuvered his way through the Big East regular season, helping the Irish post 11 league wins, three more than their previous best. He's played a team-high 
37.2 minutes per game this season, the rare break usually coming at the end of a blowout victory. 
In his comeback season, Ingelsby's dished off 6.6 assists per game, 11th-best in the nation and third-best in the Big East. Despite bringing the ball up the court, he averages less than two turnovers per game. Oh, and the team's top 3-point specialist also hit a game-winning shot against 10th-ranked Boston College Feb. 21. 
Not everyone was surprised. 
"I expected it," Carroll said. "Just from playing with him last year, I knew that he was a great player." 
Brey agrees. 

"I just think you're seeing the culmina­tion of a young man who's worked very hard to be a good college player, and it's all coming together his senior year." 
Even more key than his stats are Ingelsby's intangible contributions to the team. The calm senior never gets flus­tered, even in the harshest of road envi­ronments. He keeps his composure, setting the example for his teammates. 
"You'd never know if he was winning or losing just to look at his face," said Rose Ingelsby. "That's the way he is. He never gets too upset." 
Ingelsby's senior season has earned him an invitation to the Port Smith camp in early April, a chance for NBA and overseas scouts to check out the potential draft players. If playing professionally doesn't work out, coaching is surely in Ingelsby's future, possibly at Notre Dame. 
"I would like to, definitely, especially coming back under Coach Brey," Ingelsby said of returning to the Irish in a different role. "I feel like he's the one that recruited me. We have a great relationship on and off the court. He's the type of guy I'd like to work under." 
The feeling is mutual. 
"He would be a guy I'd love to have back here someday," said the first-year Irish coach. "Maybe he goes away first and then comes back, but he would be a guy that I would be very interested in." 
Not Done Yet 

It would be hard to ask for much more from anyone, let alone a player so under­estimated at the season's start and so overlooked a year ago. 
Ingelsby's not quite done refuting his critics' claims, however. 
While winning eight consecutive Big East games and capturing a division banner was a thrill, that's not enough for Ingelsby. He's got a Big East Tournament to win this week, and the NC.AA Tournament on his mind as well. 
"We're really happy with the way things have gone this year," Ingelsby said, "but we're not satisfied." 
If anyone's entitled to a little satisfaction, it's lngelsby. 
I ,' I ( 
I I I I 
' <' 
I I 
I I 
, I 
' (
' i 
' i 
I 
' I 
i 

. Captain rebounds from bumP-Y year to start at point guard 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Associate Sports Editor 
Martin Ingelsby's transformation from forgotten to indispensable took just three days. Somewhere between Matt Doherty's decision to pack his bags for North Carolina on July 11 and Mike Brey signing on as the new Irish men's basketball coach on July 14, Ingelsby became the point man for Notre Dame. 
The full transition would take a bit longer. Inge Isby had plenty of people to convince of his ability to lead a top-25 team, but with Brey as coach, the ball and the team were in Ingelsby's hands once more. 
Less than eight months later, Ingelsby has proved himself quite capable of stand­ing up to Big East competition. The senior captain has been more reliable than the mailman in pushing Notre Dame to a Big East West Division title and a likely NCAA Tournament bid, logging overtime minutes on the court and leading the conference in assist-to-turnover ratio. 
The comeback couldn't be sweeter for Ingelsby. 
Season to forget 
Ingelsby returned home to Philadelphia for Christmas 1999 entertaining thoughts of transferring, with his Notre Dame future seemingly spiraling into a black hole. 
Ingelsby had started all but two games at point guard during his first two years, both under then-coach John MacLeod, but during the first months of his junior season under Doherty, he'd slid out of the starting five and further and further down the bench.. 
Ingelsby began the season sharing guard duties with senior Jimmy Dillon. In a sea­son-opening 59-57 upset of Ohio State, Ingelsby scored 14 points, including two 3­pointers in the final two-and-a-half min­utes. He remained in the starting lineup through the sixth game of the year, but in an overtime loss to Indiana, he saw just 11 minutes of court time. 
The next game, Ingelsby found himself beginning the game in his warm-up clothes. He never learned what caused the demotion. 
"There was really no explanation for why it happened," Ingelsby said. "It was just like, something had to change, and it was me." 
Questions began creeping into the for­mer Pennsylvania player of the year's mind. What was wrong? Could he get more playing time elsewhere? Should he stay at Notre Dame? 
He talked things through with his par­ents, Tom and Rose Ingelsby, who told him 
one-on-one 
WITH MARTIN 
INGELSBY 

position: point guard year: senior awards: Gatorade state player ofthe year for Pennsylvania in senior year, won Markwood Award as best Philadelphia high school player, McDonald's All-America honorable mention notables: leads the Big East with a 
3 .49 assist-to-turnover ratio, plays a team-high 3 7.9 minutes per game birthdate: Nov. 24, 1978 hometown: Berwyn, Pa. dorm: off-campus -Castle Point major: marketing dimensions: 5-foot-1, 175 lbs. favorite book: Fall River Dreams 
to pray about it and hang in there. 
"He hit a little bump in the road last year," said Tom Ingelsby, a former NBA player who coached Martin's Archbishop Carroll High School team. "I think he han­dled it maybe better than some of us did. He handled it with a lot of class, and he never lost his self-esteem. He hung in there and stayed competitive, and then this year he's come back and had a very, very solid season." 
Ingelsby read and reread an Abe Lincoln quote sent by his younger brother that read, "I will prepare, and sometime, my day will come." He got support from guys on the team, especially fellow Philly native Matt Carroll, then a freshman. He learned who his real friends were -the ones who stuck with him as close as his Fisher Hall roommates. 
Ingelsby filed all the suggestions away, then made his own decision. Despite the unsettling year in which his playing time dwindled to single digit minutes by sea­son's end, he didn't waver. 
"I made a commitment to Notre Dame, and I was going to stay for four years no matter what," he said. "I thought about it [transferring], but I knew I had to deal with adversity. I was going to make the best of it. I just wanted to come in and work hard, and hopefully things would change." 
Through it all, the unflappable Ingelsby stayed behind his team and his coach. No matter how much the situation bothered him, he wasn't one to cause a scene. 
As a result, few people realized how tough the benching was on him. He'd had a basketball in hand "since he was born," although his dad estimated Ingelsby didn't 
. begin organized basketball until the ripe old age of 5, so to have the game pulled from under him was unnerving. Not only was the 1999-2000 season frus­trating for Ingelsby individually, it was dif~ ficult from a team standpoint as well. The Irish just missed an NCAA Tournament bid, instead being disappointed with an NIT berth, where they lost in the finals. "I felt that if Martin had played more last year, they would have been in the NCAAs," said MacLeod, who recruited Ingelsby. "With Martin out there, the guy playing Martin can't leave because Martin's going to make a lot of shots." Ingelsby wasn't sure how his final year would develop, if he would get the starting nod once Dillon graduated, but he decided to remain at Notre Dame long enough to find out. 
A Perfect Match 
The answer came last July when Brey took over as head coach. One of the first moves for the former Delaware coach was to drive up to Philadelphia, take Ingelsby out to dinner and tell him what he had in mind for the senior-to-be. 
"One of the biggest changes was when Coach Brey came up to my house," 

lngelsby 

favorite TV show: Ed favorite music group: Bare Naked Ladies favorite sports team: Celtics dream car: Escalade place I'd like to visit: Australia greatest personal athletic moment: hitting the game-winning shot against Boston College 
one thing most people don't know about me: my nickname is Moose Final Four predictions: Notre Dame, Duke, Illinois, North Carolina All-American picks: Notre Dame's Troy Murphy and Matt Carroll, Duke's Shane Battier and Jason Williams, Iowa State's Jamaar Tinsley 




