
-·------------------, 
New professor increases diversity
SUNNY 

Wednesday 

Alexis Brooks-De Vita is hired as the first fulHime black female 
HIGH 80° 

AUGUST 29, 

professor in Saint Mary's history. 
LOW64° 
news . page 3 
2001 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 


U2 visit to Notre Dame 
•


uncertain 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News Editor 
Despite circling rumors that U2 will per­form on campus this fall. University administrators and LOur representatives for the Irish rock band say there are no definite plans to bring the group to Notre Dame. 
"We have had discussions with U2 tour representatives, and we're not ready to make an official announcement," said Joe Sassano, the Joyce Center events manager who oversees concert booking for the facil­ity. 
Talks with Notre Dame authorities are merely preliminary and do not guarantee an appearance by the band, according to officials at Clear Channel Entertainment, the company heading up tour promotions. 
"At this point, l cannot confirm that U2 will be playing at Notre Dame," Rachel Gary, a spokeswoman for the New York­based firm, said Tuesday. "The routing is still not done, and it's nowhere near being finished, so I can definitely not confirm that there is a show at Notre Dame." 
To date, the band has yet to even announce another North American leg of its Elevation tour -the most lucrative international tour in history. U2 wraps up its European tour Saturday in Dublin and band spokespeople have said plans for fur­ther touring may be announced soon. 
But that decision could be delayed in light of the death last week of lead singer Bono's father. 
This month, local media and a fan-run 
see U2/page 4 
WELCOME BACK 


KYLIE CARTER ffile Observer 

Father Malloy, along with other University officials and students, enters the Joyce Center, where thousands attended Tuesday's Mass. 
HTTP://0 BS ERVER. N D. EDU 
More students means less space 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER 
Assistant News Editor 

Desks and chairs were swapped with modular beds and bureaus during the summer in 39 study lounges to create room for an additional 91 students on Notre Dame's campus. 
After 100 more freshmen than projected by admissions decided to attend, 
un iv e rs ity See Also 
officials were 

faced with a "JU population dilemma: to suffers growing
house the 

extra fresh-pains and lack of men in dorm housing" rooms intend­
page3
ed for transfer students and force most transfer students to live off-campus or to convert study lounges into dorm rooms. 
Administrators chose to con­vert study lounges into rooms and house male transfer stu­dents and female freshman and transfer students in the convert­ed rooms. In the Mod Quad dorms -Knott, Pasquerella East, Pasquerella West and Siegfried -half of the six sec­tion study lounges were convert­ed into triples. In the West Quad dorms -Keough, McGlinn, O'Neill and Welsh Family ­three study lounges were con­verted into doubles and three convertible rooms, designed to act as either a lounge or a room, were changed to doubles. past for dorm rooms and decided to use half of those rooms In Dillon Hall, three study lounges were converted into to accommodate some people. It's a happy medium, not to do triples. 
"Basically, we know the study rooms we've used in the see FRESHMEN/page 4 



Handbook spells out assault policy 
vice president for Student Affairs. 
By MYRA McGRIFF 
In addition to the improved sexual assault 
Saint Mary's Editor 
section, the handbook also has a new look. The handbook is now contained in a small Saint Mary's student handbook gets a face­three ring binder that students will be able to lift for the start of the new year. The Office of add more pages to in the future. Students will Student Affairs has not only changed the look keep the binder for their entire college career of the book but also added rather than getting a new new policies and expanded on paperback handbook every
old ones. "The information on 
fall. The hope is that the blue The most notable policy personal safety has been binders will stand out over the change is the expanded sec­old paperback student hand­
expanded. I would urge 
tion dealing with harassment books. 
and sexual assault. Where students to pay attention 
"We wanted to increase the the old handbook left out to that section. " visibility of the student hand­
steps for prevention methods book. To make it more promi­or in depth reporting proce­nent. We also wanted stu­
Linda Timm

dure, tho now book has each dents to feel some ownership,"topic broken down into five vice president for Student Affairs Timm said. detailed points. To help students feel vested The expanded section also in the book, each has been personalized with includes a list of victims' rights, as well as, dif­the student's name on the first page.
ferent options for prosecuting. Students now The College has also detailed the policy on have a description and telephone numbers of busing for off-campus events, the promotion of different places to seek out support. events on campus and the processing for rent­
"The information on personal safety had ing space for a function. -been expanded. I would urge students to pay attention to that section," said Linda Timm, see HANDBOOK/page 4 
page2 The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, August 29, 2001 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Just a phone call 

Moving in this year should have been the same as always. I came a week early, my mom helped me set up my room, I spent about 30 hours in the basement of South Dining IIall working on the Frosh-0 paper and I wrapped up my first week back with a house party com­plete with three kegs. Sounds about normal. But something just isn't quite the same this year. 
Two years ago, as an incoming freshman, I helped move my older sister into 249 LeMans Hall -a room that looked like a mansion to me after moving into my modest double in McCandless. A week and a half ago I moved myself into 249 LeMans. to begin my residence in the exact same room Molly lived in her junior year here at Saint Mary's. Life has a funny way of working like that. After I moved in and recovered from carrying all the stuff I brought with me from home, I headed over to The Observer -alone. 
For the first time ever, I'm at school without my big sister. Sure I spent two years in grade school as the only McVoy while she was at high school and two years in high school while she was away, but that was different. After school was over, I went home. And for my first two years here at Saint Mary's, whenever I needed a taste of Cleveland I stopped over to visit Molly and her extensive collection of Cleveland Indian's para­phernalia. But now where do I go for a touch of home? 
· Saturday night when the roommates and I were looking for a good party, I couldn't call over to Molly and ask her what she and her friends were up to. We were on our own for the first time. And I know my roommates will miss a good night out with Molly. For two years I've been greeted at this paper as Little McV. But now-I'm the only McV. The best sister team to ever grace The Observer is now down to just one member. And that makes me a little sad. 
Three weeks ago Molly left for medical school in Cincinnati -four hours away from the booming metropolis of South Bend. Two weeks ago I drove down to Cincinnati to see her get her white coat. symbolizing that eventually she'll be saving lives. But the thing is -she already has. 
For 20 years I've found a lifesaver in her. She's always been there to go to when I needed help with my chemistry homework, to complain about my roommates or to ask why he didn't call. And she's always had the right answers: "helium is the lightest element," "they didn't lock the door because they hate you" and "he didn't call because he doesn't know what I know -that you're great." 
Now it's a little different. I find myself sounding a lot like my mom these days -Molly's just grow­ing up too fast. Saint Mary's feels just a little less like home because she's not here. But Thursday night around 11, when I'd been at the paper far too long and was probably threatening to go play in traffic. my lifesaver found me one more time. An off-campus call at the sports desk for me -it was Molly calling to see how I was doing. And despite the fact that she's hundreds of miles away, that night reminded me ofsomething -she's always only a phone call away. 
Contact Katie McVoy at 
mcuo5695@saintmarys.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

CORRECTIONS/ CLARIFICATIONS 

A photo caption in rhe Aug. 25 edition ofThe Observer in.:or­recrly identified a football player as Terrance Howard. The player should have been identified as freshman wide receiver Matt Shelton. The Observer regrets the error. 
The Observer aims for accuracy at all times. Ifyou have noticed a mistake, please call us at 631-4541. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) " published Monday tbrotigh Frid.y except durmg <Xam and vacation prnods. The Obse,ver i• a member of the Associated Press. All reptoducnon riid1cs ace reserved. 
THIS WEEK IN SOUTH BEND 
Wednesday  Thursday  
. Exhibition: "Lost  . Museum: Studebaker  
Landmarks." Carroll  National Museum, 525  
Gallery. Northern Indiana  South Main Street, hours 9  
Center of History, 10 a.m.  a.m. to 5 p.m., 235-9479,  
$4.50 with student ID  

Friday Saturday 
. Lecture: "Notre Dame: . Exhibit: College Football Reflections of Student Hall of Fame, 111 South · Life," Northern Indiana Saint Joseph Street, hours Center for History, 808 10 a.m. to 7 p.m., 235­West Washington Street 9999, $7.00 with student 
ID 
Compiled from U-Wire reports

BEYOND CAMPUS 
Toledo freshman arrested for homicide 
TOLEDO, Ohio 

Thursday morning University of Toledo police received a call from the Cleveland Police Department inform­ing the UTPD that Andre Beasley. an 18-year-old Euclid resident, was wanted for the drive-by shooting death of a 13-year-old Cleveland boy and was believed to be enrolled at UT and living on campus. 
Beasley was enrolled as a freshman pre-business major and had moved into the third floor of Dowd Hall. 
The UTPD organized a surprise entry and arrested Beasley on a homicide warrant issued by the Cleveland Pol!ce Department for the killing of Raymond Bozak. 
Bozak was picking pears Tuesday when a car driven by Donald Lassiter. 
19. drove by with Beasley in the pas-
PENN STATE 
Accused student commits suicide 
UNIVERSITY PARK. Pa. 
Pennsylvania State University student Timothy .Michael Kulp, facing recent charges of indecent assault, died early Tuesday morning after prison offi­cials found him hanging from a shoelace in his Centre County Prison cell. The 18-year-old freshman was pro­nounced dead just past midnight at Centre Community Hospital, after emergency technicians tried to revive him. Centre County Coroner Scott Sayers ruled the death a suicide. "What a shame. what a shock. We did everything we could for him." said Kulp's father, Timothy Kulp of Pottstown, Pa.. in an emotional phone interview Tuesday. ''I'll never see my little boy again." University officials called the suicide a tragedy after being informed early Tuesday morning. Kulp was arrested Saturday for allegedly assaulting three sleep­ing women in their Mifflin Hall rooms earlier that morning. He was being held in a separate temporary holding cell at the Bellefonte prison on $35,000 bail. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather"'forecast for daytime conditions and hi h temperatures 
~Q~uuu ¢-~ u 

,,.... ,, ... ,,,~ ......:. ·i·.;;l·,::=· -::.-::..::.. 
ShOW8lS T--storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunnv Pt. Cloudy Clcudy 
Via Assoc~led PrfJs.s Gr~p/J_ics.N~r 

Dr. Robert Challener. deputy Cuyahoga County coroner told the Cleveland Plain Dealer that a lone BB penetrated skin, muscle, two layers of membrane and one lung, where it nicked a vessel. Bozak was pro­nounced dead 45 minutes later. 
Beasley was booked in the Lucas County jail and held on bond for $250,000, according to a report by the Toledo Blade. Beasley returned to Cleveland Friday afternoon. 
Lassiter was arrested Thursday. 

"He seemed like a pretty cool guy," roommate Lucas Yedica said of Beasley. "We got along with him. I never would've thought that [he'd be arrested for homicide]." When [the cops] said homicide, I couldn't believe it." 
Jaquet said the incident lasted about five minutes, and once the police escorted Beasley out of the room, the sheriff stayed behind and explained the need for a surprise entrv. 
"We were pretty much wide awake after they left." Jaquet said. 
TEXAS A & M 
Safety firm keeps bonfire on hold 
COLLEGE STATION, Texas 

If the Bonfire 2002 Planning Group can contract a safety firm in the next few weeks, Bonfire might burn again in November of 2002 at Texas A&M, officials say. Vallen Knowledge Systems Corporation, first selected in April to help plan the safety aspects of the Bonfire 2002 design and student leadership structure, revamped the terms of their contract in June, adding stipulations that "we couldn't accept," Steering Committee Facilitator Bryan Cole said last week. "In my perception, they want­ed out of the contract," Cole said. "And they wanted us to be the ones to pull out." The Planning Group rejected the other original applicant as unqualified to work with Bonfire and in June began to solicit contractors, sending invitations to more than 600 firms. By the July 10 dead­line, only one firm had replied to the planning group's request for qualifications. That firm was deemed unqualified by the reviewing board of planning group and Physical Plant members, Cole said. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeathar<" forecast for noon, Wednesday, Aug. 29. 

PNUil,.' r7"'7 ~ 
®© ... Dua 
High Low Shower• Rain T••tormo Flu,rrle& Snow l,::e Sunny Pt-Cloudy Cloudy 
Vl9 !VsadatedPr,00 

Atlanta  87  70  Las Vegas  103  60  Portland  85  58  
Baltimore  82  63  Memphis  91  68  Sacramento  94  59  
Boston  76  60  Milwaukee  76  67  St. Louis  89  72  
Chicago  80  67  New York  81  62  Tampa  91  75  
Houston  83  74  Philadelphia  84  66  Washington. DC 83  68  

--7 
Wednesday, August 29, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
IU community suffers growing pains and lack of housing 
have increased over last year's total student popula­Through the Division of Residential Programs andBy JASON McFARLEY tion, administrative Services, students have several housing options, 
News Editor 
assistant in the JU regis­including dorms, fraternity and sorority houses
" ... There has been a real
trar's office said and on-campus apartments. A year ago, IU housing coordinators faced a situation Tuesday. She said a com­growth in the number of Many students also choose to live off campus, almost identical to what Notre Dame is now experienc­plete enrollment count said IU spokeswoman Susan Dillman . 
... other alternatives to
ing. would not be readv until "In the past several years, there has been a real 
campus housing. ,.
Last_fall. a shortage of on-campus residential space the end of the week. growth in the number of apartment complexes,prompted Indiana University Bloomington administra­She also said she was studios and other alternatives to on-campus hous­tors to set np temporary accommodations in converted not sure what effect the Susan Dillman ing," Dillman said Tuesday. dormitory lounges for about 90 students, according to increased enrollment Unlike Notre Dame, IU does not require fresh­
Indiana University spokewoman
housing coordinators at the central Indiana school. A would have on housing men to live on campus. larger freshman cla::;s than was expected contributed to this year. the housing strain. "That's not a report we even do at this early stage of 
Contact Jason McFarley at McFarley.l@nd.edu. 
This fall. preliminary enrollment numbers appear to the school year," she said. 
New professors promote campus 
diversity, feminist theory 
By JILL MAXBAUER 
News Writer 
At Sa.int Mary's this year, Professor Alexis Brooks-DeVita joins the English department teaching African American Women's Autobiographical Writings, African American Women in Literature, and a first year Language and Literature W c\ass enti­tled Women Writing About Ethnicity. Equality and Education. 
Bronks-DeVita is the first full-time black female professor in the history of Saint Mary's. The idea of increased diversity on campus is a goal 
that both the col­
"I am impressed by the

lege and Brooks­
schools desire to create

DeVita share. She has -both personal more diversity ... The stu­and academic goals 
dents' desire to learn

for diversity and 
and my desire to teach

hopes that the desire to diversify will bring us together." seeps into the class­room. 
Alexis Brooks-De-Vita

"l am impressed by the school's Saint Mary's professor 
desire to create more diversity. The students' desire to learn and my desire to teach will bring us togeth­er," Brooks-DeVita said. 
Brooks-DeVita received a Masters' degree in Comparative Literature from the University of Colorado-Boulder and went on to earn a Ph.D. in Reading Literature by Women of African Descent, where she ana­lyzes English, Spanish, Italian and French literature for roots from the African culture. 
Before commg to Saint Mary's, Brooks­DeVita taught English and Women's Studies at the University of Southern Colorado. In the market for a new position, Brooks DeVita considered Saint Mary's. Following her visit and guest teaching at Saint Mary's in the spring of 2001, DeVita made a deci­sion to come to Saint l\Iary's. 
"I was very impi,-essed by the women and the learning atmosphere," Brooks-DeVita said "I love the idealism of the students I have been meeting." 
Through the combined effort of the English and Women's Studies department another new professor joins Saint Mary's faculty this semester. Professor Astrid Henry, a joint professor, will teach for in both the English Department and the Women's Studies Department. Her fall cur­riculum teaching the first year Language and Literature W class, Introduction to Women's Studies, as well as a course called Feminist Generation. 
Henry previously taught at the University. 
of Wisconsin~Whitewater and Granell College in Iowa. Given the opportunity to shop for a new col­lege and position, Henry inter­viewed with Saint Mary's and accepted the offer. 
"Although I was considering sev­eral positions, Saint Mary's made the most appealing offer," Henry said. 
Henry earned her BA from Sarah Lawrence in New York; Henry received Masters from the New School for Social Research also located in New York focusing her 
disortation in US feminist theory. She then moved to Wisconsin to earn her Ph.D. at the University of Wisconsin also with a concen­tration in US. feminist theory. She received this degree in English with a concentration in Modern Studies. With her emphasis in feminist theory, Henry hopes to expand Saint Mary's curriculum. Although it is early in the year. Henry is already looking into becoming involved with various groups on campus. 
"I want to create a greater presence of Women's Studies on campus by bringing younger feminist concerns into the curricu­lum to help move more students into the Women's Studies program," Henry said. 
Contact Jill Maxbauer at maxb3 l26@saint­marys.edu. 
Willis ready for change and city involvement 
By LETY VERDUZCO 
NewsWrirer 
Marie Willis is one of the many fresh faces at Saint Mary's this fall as she assumes her position as assistant director for the Office of Multicultural Affairs. 
With a background in working with young people Willis hopes to improve the programs the office offers. 
"We have successful summer and pre-college programs and I would like to he!p develop these programs with 
other groups." 
"I want to get the Office mission and 
said Willis, who philosophy.
ofMulticultural Affairs
replaces April "I knew about Davis. and Saint Mary's College the College
A local gradu­from when I
more involved in the 
ate of St. went to school
community. ,,
Joseph High at St. Joe's and School, Willis I like the fact continued her Marie Willis that it is an all 
education at 
assistant director at Saint Mary's women ·s col-
the University 
Office of Multicultural Affairs lege that works
of Ann Arbor obtaining a BA in both English and psychology. 
After graduation she worked as a crisis intervention worker for battered women in New York. She later moved to Dowagiac, Mich. where she worked for the Pokagon Band of the Potawatomi Indians as a youth coordinator and an interim educator manger. She helped designed programs for children and organized cul­tural programs. 
After four years with the Potawatomis, she began pursu­ing a master's degree in educa­tional administration and com­munity leadership at Central Michigan University. She wanted to work with college aged stu­dents rather than the high school and elementary students she dealt with through the Potawatomis. 
"I really did love working with the children, but I just felt like it was time to move on," said Willis. 
The opening at Saint Mary's provided Willis with the perfect opportunity to work with college aged students as well as continue her education at Central Michigan. 
As a Michiana native, she was 
also aware of 
Saint Mary's 
in supporting 
women," Willis said. 
Willis hopes to establish even more programming at Saint Mary's -especially program­ming that will allow students to get more involved in the local community. One of her proposed programs is a mentoring and tutoring program between Saint Mary's students and local Potawatomi groups. 
"I want to get the Office of Multicultural Affairs and Saint Mary's College more involved in the community, both in Indiana and Michigan," she said. 
Contact Lety Verduzco at verd8852@saintmarys.edu. 


~-··················• 
¦• ¦ 
•¦ Join the Club! : ¦ 
¦ Come to an informational meeting for the • ¦ LOGAN Club ¦ 
• Monday, September 10th ¦ 
¦ 
6 p.m.-Center for Social Concerns-ND ¦¦ 

¦ 
7 p.m. Regina Lounge-SMC ¦ ¦ 


¦ Go to: http://www.logancentcr.org/Volunteers/Activities.din ¦ 
Shop the shops at the East Bank Emporium Bldg. Area's largest selection of 
VERA BRADLEY 
backpacks, luggage & other accessories see the new colors at 
WEAR.ABOUTS 
.£11sbion witb II Jl11ir .,fiw 11rriv11/§ n11ilttf 
Fall Hours: Mon-Fri: 10 to 6, Sat 10-5 -(219) 232-8488 Next to W:~.e 4ffi{ol.e ~l.e, do\.\11tow11, South Bend 
¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦ •--12_1_s___N_il_es_a_t_k_ffi_cr_w_n_a_tfu_e_riv_e_r._s_b_Ioc_k_s_e_as_t_ot_·N_o_tr_e_D_~_e_A_v_e___ 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, August 29, 2001 
Freshmen 
continued from page 1 
hucre damage to study space, but to provide rooms for some transfer st;dents," said associate director of Residence Life and Housing Scott Kachmarik. 
The converted rooms offer several benefits over current rooms as they are carpeted, contain modular furniture and are more spacious than a regular room. However, all of the rooms except the dual pur­pose lounges do not contain a sink. Students placed in these rooms were informed in a letter that they were placed in a converted study lounge and do not have a sink. 
"I love it in here. The bathrooms are right across the hall, so hav­ing a sink is not a problem, but I kind of feel like I stole [study space] from the other students," said transfer student Tim Kelly who is liv­ing in a converted study lounge in Knott Hall. Kelly said his only regret about living in a converted study lounge is the fact that the lower ceilings prevent him from being able to build a loft: He s:i,id that living in a study lounge has been a good way to meet his section mates, who come into the room to see how it looks. 
Even with the additional rooms on campus, about 50 transfer stu­dents remain on the waiting list for on-campus housing, a number similar to this time last year. Housing for transfer studenis is assigned on a space available basis by the date the Office of Admissions receives a student's confirmation card. 
"We don't guarantee housing for transfer students, our first com­mitment is to freshmen and continuing students. Problems were worse this year [with transfers being refused on-campus housing], and there were a lot of really disappointed transfers. On the good side we were able to move in a lot of students off of the waiting list," sailassistant director of undergraduate admissions Michael Gantt. 
According to Kachmarik, transfer students arc still being brought off of the waiting list as students who were expected to live in a dorm room do not show up or leave the University. Some transfer students who are offered a spot on-campus decline it because they have already signed a lease off-campus. He said he exped.s all students who want to live on-campus will be able to by the spring semester. 
Some transfer students who are unable to move on campus feel somewhat left out from the Notre Dame community. Transfer stu­dent Chris Tepe said that after his offer of admission, he received a letter explaining the housing shortage and was encouraged to call the Office of Residence Life and Housing as soon as possible. When he called, he was put on the waiting list. 
"All of the Arts and Letters admissions decisions were sent out and three weeks later, mine from business was sent out and when I called I was number 85 on the waiting list. I've moved up quite a bit on the wait list and I will probably get on campus eventually, but it's been a really bad experience," said Tepe. 
Gantt said that the colleges realize how important it is to release decisions as soon as possible and work to expedite the decisions. He also said the efforts of the Transfer Orientation Committee try to make students feel welcome, even if they are not living on campus. 
"Throughout the whole process, we have tried to let them know they could have a very rich experience living off-campus and that the prospects look good for being able to move on-campus eventually. We try and get them to take part and do all of the activities and let them know we are happy to have them as Notre Dame students," said Gantt. 
According to Kachmarik, housing will probably remain limited for the next several years, and it is possible that study lounges will again have to be used for dorm rooms. 
"We're projecting high capacity for the next several years. The number of dorm rooms used has not been nnder 96 percent for the last 1 O years and we could have a similar situation with the study lonnges in the future years. That's a good thing to have the [dorms being fully used]." said Kachmarik. 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at Brodfuehrer.l@nd.edu. 

127 S. Michigan 
2.88 • PffP 
r Breakfast, 
Lunch 
· ents to §ouili lBlend's Best ;1h. <Convemexr&ly loc:aired 'tl!~Jr . {. , > ,, ...... cofate C~fo in DowntoW]ll 
Soutfm Bt1rnd. :: ' ,::r 
~ ,,~:· w __ c·_: ·,._. _.\ :-:-'._ _:.;:; 
.:'?:::.-·-_;:;::·,)fr_,:' • 
Open 7atp:.:~<2pm Weekends, 

Student Handbook distribution
Handbook 
. On-campus students will receive theirs during the 
continued from page 1 first floor meeting 
.Off-campus students can pick books up at Haggar 
College Center front desk starting Monday Sept. 3
The handbook also outlines the steps dis­abled students need to take to receive through Sept. 7 from 8 a.m. -4p.m. appropriate accommodations. 
The student handbook also now offers a 
Contact Myra McGriff at mcgr0l8l@saint­
new section on financial advice including 
marys.edu.
help with credit cards. · 
Dorm has face lift this summer 
area was walled off to house the with tho sprinkler system, the 
By ANNE MAHONEY 

new, more centrally located Hall Director's apartment 
l\'ewsWriter 

chapel. In addition to new fur­received the full treatment. The nishings, the chapel now apartment is now complete with As the new year begins, includes a new bedroom McCandless residents have a sac­and kitchen. 
"We made the apartment
something to celebrate. The risty. "We made the residence hall received a Later a handicap apartment handi­through cleaning and several stained 
accessible, replaced the cap accessible, 
areas were improved through­g 1 ass replaced the win­
windows and carpeting,
out the building. d o o r dows and carpet• The most noticeable change to leading and repainted the entire ing, and repainted the hall was the renovation and into the the entire area,"
area. 
relocation of the chapel. When chapel Dennis said. the hall was built in 1964, a will be The downsized chapel could not be constructed added. Keith Dennis student lounge because federal funds were T h e vice president of Finance and area also received used in construction. La1.er, a a
Mission Administration at Saint Mary's makeover. 
makeshift chapel was added to Office Minor renovation the west end of the main hall plans to s included the but it was inadequate compared re-bless the chapel to make the replacement of the kitchenette to other hall chapels. remodeling official. and re-carpeting in some of the 
"The chapel was located in a The other project of priority computer labs on each floor. small back room," said Keith was installing a sprinkler system Dennis, vice president of for fire protection, bringing Contact Anne Mahoney at Finance and Administration. McCandless up to code with the maho9505@saintmarys.edu.
About a third of the lounge other residence halls. Along 
U2 
has played since a 50-date North American tour began earlier this year. 
In the past, the Joyce Center has hosted continued from page I other big-name acts such as Elton John, Matchbox 20 and Aerosmith. 
U2's current tour promotes sales of the web site stirred the campus rumor mill, mak­band's multi-platinum album "All That You ing unconfirmed announcements that U2 Can't Leave Behind." would appear at the Joyce Center Oct. 10. 
The arena seats about 12,000 people and 
Contact Jason McFarley at McFarley.l@nd.edu. 
would be among the smaller venues the band 
Attention ~tuOen~ 
~eniors interes!eG in !he Rhodes, Marshall, or Mitchell ~cholarship shoula attena ameeting lo learn !he process for applying tlrrou~the campus committee, 
TuesOay, ~eptemDer ~ in 
O:~~pm room rnILaw ~chool 
lfyou are unaole to attend lnis meeling, infonnalion may lie obtaineO in the Fellow~llip Office in room~~ O'~hauihnessy 

ATION 
Wednesday, August 29, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WJRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Taliban destroys alcohol: Taliban sol-­diers from Afghanistan smashed hundreds of bottles of alcohol that had survived years of radical Islamic rule hidden behind a false wall in the basement of the capital's only major hotel. Turbaned troops pushed each other to get at the estimated 500 bottles of bottles of vodka. wine and whiskey on Tuesday, each wanting to throw a bottle on the rocks behind 
the hotel. When the Taliban took control of Kabul in 1996. they demolished any alcohol they found. banned most forms of entertain­ment. set fire to movie theaters and strung cas­sette tapes from poles throughout the city. 
Missionary killed in Philippines: An 
Irish missionary was killed Tuesday when he resisted gunmen who tried to abduct him. police said. nev. Tiufus Halley, a member of the Columba.n order. was riding his motorcycle home when four men in ski-masks and carrying M-16s flagged him down. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Powerball winners come forward: 
A Maine couple who won one-quarter of the $294.8 million Powerball jackpot made their announcement Tuesday. calling the last few days "'a wonderful pandemonium." Patricia Wales. 60. and her husband. Erwin, 70, held a news conference in Saco. Maine. a day after two other winners were identified in Kentucky and Minnesota. The holder of the final winning ticket, which was sold in Delaware. has not been identified. The jack­pot is the third-biggest lottery prize in U.S. history. 
Police bust ecstasy ring: Nine people were arrested Tuesday and charged with tak­ing part in a ring that smuggled 250,000 tablets of Ecstasy into the country from Amsterdam in travelers' girdles. The couriers were paid $1 per pill to smuggle 10,000 pills at a time between January 1999 and last October. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Wetlands clean farm spill: An artificial wetlands complex built by Purdue University to treat farm runoff has helped avert an environ­mental disaster. Thousands of gallons of liquid manure spilled into a drainage ditch earlier this month at a Purdue-operated dairy farm. A state inspector suggested diverting the spill into the nearby wetlands, a move that spared a creek where the manure could have killed a large number of fish. Aquatic plants and microbes in the wetlands cleaned up the manure with sur­prising efficiency, said Ron Turco, associate director of Purdue's Indiana Water Resources Research Center. 
Market Watch August 29 

Dow I 0,222.03 -160.32 

Composite

J~ Same: 
Volume: 
NIA
~ 216 

AMEX: 878.79 -9.92 NASDAQ: 1,864.98 -47.43 NYSE: 598.84 -7.10 S&P500: 1J6l.51 -17.70 
TOPS VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 INDX (QQQ) -3.13 -1. 32 38 .12 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) -6.48 -0. 94 13. 56 INTEL CORP (INTC) -2.20 -0.64 28.51 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -5.11 -0.92 17 .09 EXODUS COMM INC (EXDS) +11.70 -tB.11 1. 05 
BAHAMAS 


Associated Press  waiting. Kendra McPhee, a  Shani Holland. a 13­26­year-old fan, went to the  tims as bodyguard Scott Gallin, 41, of North Miami,  
NASSAU  year-old  chef  who  funeral home with her  Florida; Keith Wallace, 49,  
The body of 22-year-old  watched as Aaliyah's body  mother, sister and brother  of Los Angeles; Douglas  
singer and actress Aaliyah  was taken away. said she  to pay their last respects.  Kratz,  28, also  of Los  
was put onto a private jet  would miss the singer's  Loretta Turner, of Butler's  Angeles,  a representative  
and flown back to New  soft spoken nature.  funeral home. said the  for Virgin Records; make­ 
York Tuesday. just days  "She was like a silent  singer was  being flown  up artist Eric Forman, 29,  
after she and eight others  angel," she said.  back to  New York, but  of  Los  Angeles;  Gina  
died  in  a  tragic plane  Aaliyah and the others  details  of her  funeral  Smith,  29,  of  North  
crash.  had just filmed  a  music  arrangements were not  Bergen,  New  Jersey;  
More than 100 people  video  on  the Bahamas'  released.  Anthony Dodd. 34, of Los  
surrounded  Butler's  Abaco Island. Their twin­ "She  just  stood  for  Angeles; and Christopher  
Funeral  Homes  and  engine Cessna 402B  was  women everywhere," said  Maldonado, 32,  of Los  
Crematorium in Nassau as  bound  for  Opa-locka.  the teen-ager, who mimic­ Angeles. Also killed in the  
four men hoisted Aaliyah's  Florida  when  it  went  ked the singer's dance  crash  was  the  plane's  
body into  a  hearse. The  down Saturday in clear  routines and used them in  pilot,  Luis  Antonio  
body, shielded by a white  skies, roughly 200 feet  a recent festival. "She was  Morales Blanes, 30, who  
cardboard box, was  then  from the end of the run­ so pretty. and she had a  lived in Fort Lauderdale,  
taken to the Nassau air­ way at Marsh Harbour  beautiful voice."  Florida. but was originally  
port where a  New York­ airport on Abaco Island,  Family members identi­ from San Juan. Puerto  
bound  private jet  was  100 miles north of Nassau.  fied the other crash vie- Rico.  
SOUTH AFRICA  

Security tight for UN racism panel 
Friday in the coastal city of Durban, slaves are seeking reparations.
A.<•ociated Press 

said police spokesman Bala Naidoo. Dalits, or "untouchables," on the JOHANNESBURG "We would rather take precau­lowest rungs of India's centuries-old 
As part of tight security prepara­tions." Naidoo said. "We are not tak­caste hierarchy want their plight dis­tions, South African authorities will ing any chances in this sort of thing." cussed. declare a no-fly zone over the More than 3,000 police officers About half of the security person­sprawling convention center where from across the country have been nel will be protecting visiting digni­delegates will meet for a U.N. con­called in to help maintain order at taries, including about 30 heads of ference on racism, police said the conference. during which up to state, Naidoo said. Tuesday. 50,000 protesters are expected to U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell 
No aircraft will be allowed to Oy demonstrate a myriad of grievances. had decided not to attend because of over a 0.62 square mile area above Muslim demonstrators are seeking Arab-backed "offensive language" the convention center during the censure of Israel's treatment of the that accused Israel of implementing eight-day conference. which starts Palestinians. Descendants of African racist policies against Palestinians. 
page 6 The Observer . NEWS Wednesday, August 29, 2001 

Profs question GOP's influence 
By MICHELLE KRUPA The Diamondback, (U-Wire) 
COLLEGE PARK. Md. 
White House advisers who say they can sway Latino voters to the GOP and use them as a significant force in a 2004 reelection bid are "delusional." according to a University of Maryland professor who released a report of the topic this month. 
Bush administration efforts to harness Latino voting power are doomed because the Latino vote is simply not moveable, government and politics profes­sor James Gimpel said. 
"If these Rush advisers con­tinue aiming for the Latino vot­ing bloc in this boneheaded way, they are going to shoot their boss in the foot or some­where else." Gimpel said. 
The report, 
likely support Democrats, Gimpel said. 
"They're going to pour up to the polls because [Bush] has courted them so assiduously, but they're going to end up vot­ing seven to three against him," he said. 
Instead of spending countless hours and dollars appealing to Latinos, the Bush administra­tion should tap more realistic opportunities, like working to close the political gender gap and urging support among blue-collar workers who regu­larly show an independent strnak, Gimpel said. 
Furthermore, White House advisers are misguided in their notion that promoting looser immigration legislation will entice Latinos to the GOP. Studies have shown naturalized Hispanic immigrants tend to oppose open-borders policies. 
"It's not 
which Gimpel clear that
"Ifthese Bush advisers 
and govern­taking a lib­ment and poli­continue aiming for the eral position tics assi.stan t on amnesty
Latino voting bloc in this 
professor is the thing
bone headed way, they
K a r e n that's going 
Kaufmann are going to shoot their to precipitate completed for this massive
boss in the foot or 
the Center for realignment
somewhere else ... 
Immigration that they're Studies. con­hoping for," cludes James Gimpel Gimpel said. Republicans 
University of Maryland professor The report,
face an almost­
impossible task 
of bridging the comfortable 
margin of support that 
Democrats hold among Latino 
voters. These voters are often 
drawn to the party's positions 
on health care, public educa­
tion and social services. 
To convert Latinos. Republicans would have to "consider a wholesale policy redirection on health care and social welfare programs, changes that will be almost impossible to pursue given the party's fiscally conservative base," the report states. 
By targeting Latinos, Republicans sabotage their own political gains by mobiliz­ing former non-voters to go to the polls, where they will very 
which is 
based on data from a survey conducted in 1999 by The Washington Post, the Henry J. Kaiser Foundation and Harvard University, has been criticized by immigration liberals and Republican strategists, who say its conclusions are skewed. 
"I think this study assumes that people cannot move in terms of their leanings," said Ed Goeas, president of The Tarrance Group, a GOP polling firm. 
While Goeas agreed Democrats have a firm hold on 
Molti Bene 
Catalino's Trattoria Downtown South Bend 

Saint Mary's College Program in Dance Course Offerings 2001 
Modem Dance Beginning Ballet Beginning Improvisation Jazz Beginning Rep/Perf Workshop 
Modern Dance Int. Ballet lntf Adv Jazz Int/Adv SpTp: Stott Pilates 
AUDITION NOTICE 
The SMC Dance Workshop will accept 15 dancers skilled in modem and ballet technique for the 200 l-2002 Season. 
Date: Monday, 9/3 Time: 7 p.m. Place: Regina Studio. SMC 
Ballet dancers--Bring pointe shoes 
TR  3:30-4:45p.m  
MWF  11-11:50 a.m.  
TR  12:30-1 :45 p.m.  
TR  2-3:15 p.m.  
MW  3-5:30 p.m.  
TR  7-9:00 p.m.  
TR  11-12:15 p.m.  
TR  9:30-10:45 a.m.  
TR  5-6: 15 p.m.  
MWF  10-10:50 a.m.  

Additional Opportunities 
Interested in a Minor in Dance at SMC? For information call 284-4643 or e-mail llowry@saintmarys.edu 

the Latino vote, he suggested the party is popular with them because Democrats make a more concerted effort to reach them, not because the groups' values align more closely. 
"If you look at Hispanics in terms of faith, family, work, values, Latinos come to this country identifying much more closely with Republican val­ues," he said, adding Latinos also support the GOP because of its regard for high educa­tional standards. 
Bush proved in Texas guber­natorial contests and in the 2000 presidential race that the Latino vote can be won, Goeas said. In his White House bid, the president claimed 35 per­cent of the Latino vote, and during his first half-year in office, his job-approval rating among Latinos shot up to its current 55 percent. 
Goeas pointed to Bush's will­ingness to campaign in ethnic neighborhoods and to deliver speeches in common street Spanish as tactics for enticing Latino voters. 
While the success is welcome, White House strategies to appeal to Latino voters are intended to meet long-range goals, Goeas said. With the number of Latino voters expected to double during the next 30 years. GQP planners are trying to chip away at the 20-point advantage that Democrats hold in party affilia· tion among Latinos before the margin becomes too great to overcome. 
If the GOP doesn't snag a substantial chunk of the bal­looning population, Republicans will be "relegated long-term to being a minority party," Goeas said. 
Egan spent a lifetime making history 
Speical to the Observer 

Father John Egan, former special assistant to the presi­dent and director of the Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry at Notre Dame, died May 19 at the Rectory of Holy Name Cathedral in Chicago. He was 84 years old. 
Egan served at Notre Dame from 1970 to 1983 before he was appointed the Director of the Archdiocese of Chicago's Office of Human Relations and Ecumenism. He held that position until his retirement in 1987. 
Most recently Egan worked for DePaul University as the Assistant to the President for Community Affairs. 
A force for lay Catholic spirituality and lifelong civil rights activist, Egan held leadership positions in the Archdiocese of Chicago from his ordination to the priest· hood in 1943 until his retire­ment in 1987. From 1987 until his death, Egan headed DePaul's office of community affairs. 
Egan worked closely with the Martin Luther King, Jr.. during the Civil Rights Movements in the 1960s and was one of the first Catholic priests in the country to march in Selma. Alabama. His biography, "An Alley in Chicago: The Ministry of a City Priest," was published by Sheed & Ward in 1991. 

Egan began his education at DePaul and ended his life­time of service at the univer­sity. He was a graduate of DePaul Academy and attend­ed at DePaul University before beginning his studies for the priesthood at Saint Mary's of the Lake Seminary. 
After his ordination Egan held a variety of positions including qssociate pastor of Saint Justin Martyr parish in Chicago, director of a mar­riage preparation and enrichment program, Director of the Archdiocese Office of Urban Affairs and pastor of Presentation Parish in Chicago before coming to Notre Dame. 
Egan was president of the Association of the Catechetical Training Aids and a board member of the Industrial Areas Foundation, the Metropolitan Planning Council and the Chicago Dwelling Association. 
Since 1983, Egan has resided at Holy Name Cathedral. He is survived by his sister, Kathleen Egan Martin of Rockford, Ill. 

Need a job this fall? 
The Development Phone Center is hiringl 
STUDENT CALLER POSITIONS AVAILABLE 
Call alumni on behalf ofNotre Dame's Annual Fund. 
• 
PAID TRAINING 

• 
GREAT ENVIRONMENT 

• 
EVENING HOURS 


• 
NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY 


Questions? Call Shannon or Jill at 631-8426. 
When: 
Where: Why: 
OPEN HOUSE 
Today, Wed., Aug. 29 Tomorrow, Thurs., Aug. 30 
1:00 pm to 4:00 pm 
Third Floor, Grace Hall 
For information and applications. 

The Notre Dame Annual Fund welcomes al r students back to campusl 


Wednesday, August 29, 2001 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
BRAZIL SOUTH AFRICA 
Clinton addresses students 
. Ex-president talks up importance of globalization 
Associated Pres• 
SAO PAULO 

Former President Clinton told students at a university in Brazil that for globaliza­tion to be truly successful. it m u s t include "positive inrnrde­pendence" so both rich and p o o r nations can bene­fit. 
''Global­ization is going to proceed and you can't stop it even if you want to," Clinton told about 400 students and facul­ty members at Sao Paulo's Armando Alvares Penteado University on Tuesday. 

"But you cannot have a global economy unless you also have a global economic empowerment policy, a glob­al health care policy, a global education policy, a global environmental policy and a global security policy," Clinton said. 
He said these policies must be based on what he called "a vision of positive interde­pendence, which means sim­ply that everyone counts and everyone has a role to play." 
He called for more debt relief programs to help poor nations overcome social and economic problems. 
"We must help the poor build solid health and educa­

tion programs, without which they can never hope to pros­per," Clinton said. 
Ile sugge~ted that devel­oped countries use technolo­gy to push development, edu­cation and health care reform in poorer countries. 
The former president said that globalization must also include joining forces "against our common securi­ty threats," such as terror­ism, organized crime and narcotics trafficking. 
Clinton defended the Kyoto climate agreement, recently rejected by the Bush admin­istration. It "may not be per­fect," he said, "but it should not be abandoned." 
Clinton visited Rio de Janeiro on Monday, where he endorsed the idea of a pact between a South American trade bloc and the United States. 
Associated Preos 
JOHANNESBURG 

African officials said Tuesday the fight against racism was the real loser following the U.S. drcision not to send Secretary of State Colin Powell to a major U.N. racism con­ference that starts this week. 
Across the conti­nent. gov­ernment officials and newspaper editorials voiced disappointment at the Bush administration's decision not to send a high-level delegation to 


CAMPUS BOOKSTORES LIKE TO STICK IT TO YA. 
High prices. Long lines. Sound familiar? 
ecampus.com knows you're broke and strapped for time. That's why we make shopping for textbooks and stuff as easy, fast, and cheap as possible. You'll find what 
you need and you'll get it up to 50% OFF. Plus, you'll experience convenient online shopping 24 hours aday, 7days aweek. No lines. No waiting. 
Want more cash back? Sell your books to ecampus.com 
and watch for the check in the mail. We'll give you 50% back on the new book price for the Top 50 buyback books. That's half back! You don't need basic college mathematics to know that's 
alot of cash. 

SHOPPING FOR TEXTBOOKS SHOULDN'T BE ASORE SUBJECT. 
Shop online at www.ecampus.com or call toll free 1.877.ecampus. 
Powell's absence upsets leaders 
the international gathering, which is scheduled to start to begin Friday in Durban, South Africa. 
"It is a pity. I think this ques­tion of racism is such an impor­tant question, because no coun­try -not even the United States -has been able to deal effec­tively with and eradicate racism," said South African Foreign Minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma. "The United States needs this conference just as much as anybody else." 
Nigerian Foreign Minister Dubin Onyia said the absence of the United States would be felt deeply if it decided to boycott the meeting. 

"Decisions taken at the con­ference will be like a toothless bulldog if America is not there," Onyia said. 
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan again urged the United States to participate. 
"I hope the United States will come and sit with other govern­ments to move the process for­ward, to fight for common ground and to find the right lan­guage," Annan said. 
The Bush administration is still considering whether to send a low-level delegation to the conference after announcing Monday that Powell -a former 
U.S. military chief who was known worldwide before he became the first black secretary of state -would not attend. 
The State Department said the decision was made in protest against Arab-backed "offensive language" in draft conference documents that accused Israel of implementing racist policies against Palestinians. 
The United States has also been reluctant to attend because of demands by African countries for an apology and reparations for slavery. 
Observers in Africa said an absence of senior U.S. officials at the conference would signal a lack of interest in combatting racism. 
"A high-level delegation would have signaled the United States' commitment to the global family of nations and to working things out together," said Paul Graham, director of the Institute for Democracy in South Africa. "The American action is per­ceived as proof that the U.S. is not interested in racism and poverty." 
Planning of the conference has been overshadowed in part by a push by Arab states to link Zionism -the movement that led to the founding of Israel ­with racism. 
For 16 years, the United Nations had a resolution on the books that equated Zionism with racism. It was repealed in 1991. 
The United States sat out the last two U. N. racism confer­ences, in 1978 and 1983, because it felt the gatherings were a forum for anti-Semitism. 
Fresco 
Catalino'• Trattoria Downtown South Bend 


Like to write? Why not write for us? The Observer News Department is looking for news writers. Anyone interested in writing articles should call 1-5323 or email the department at observer.(?bsnew.l@nd.edu 
Wednesday, August 29, 2001 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Bush worried about UN abortion hole Fresno dump 
"It is not about abortion; none of International Studies and a former 
Associated Press 
earns honor
the documents refer directly, indi­Clinton administration official. 
WASHINGTON 

The Bush administration wants to ensure that a U.N. conference on chil­dren does not proclaim support for abortion, officials said Tuesday. It was the latest sign of a prickly rela­tionship between the United States and the United Nations, which already are at odds over a racism meeting. 
The government plans to send a Cabinet-level delegation to the special 
U.N. General Assembly session on children next month in New York, State Department spokesman Richard Boucher said. 
In contrast, Secretary of State Colin Powell will not attend a U.N. confer­ence on racism that begins Friday in South Africa because of a planned declaration that accuses Israel of racis policies against 
give and take. "We have every expectation that we can work them out. and that we can be there, and that we will be there at a high level," Boucher said. 
The administration wants language· that "does not support or advance the idea of abortion. So we're not against family planning language," he said. 
U.N. officials insisted the draft doc­uments do not address abortion. 
rectly or any other way to abortion, and never have," UNICEF spokes­woman Liza Barrie said. 
The draft document includes a line that says nations should "promote 
Since taking office, Bush has reject­ed the Kyoto climate-change treaty, pushed forward with a missile­defense shield and abandoned talks on enforcing a 1972 treaty against 
and protect the right of the adolescent to sexual and reproductive health education. information and services in order to ... avoid unwanted or early pregnancies." 
The two tussles with the United Nations come at a time when many of America's allies have criticized President Bush's decision to with­hold support for several international treaties and have worried he is mov­
ing the 

Palestinians. The "/t is not about abortion; administration 
none of the documents 

has not decided 
refer directly, indirectly 

whom. if any­body, to send. or any other way to Boucher insist­
abortion, and never 

ed the disputes 
have."

over language before the chil­<lren's confer­
Liza Barrie 

ence are just 
UNICEF spokeswowan

part of a regular 
United States toward iso­lationism. 

In Austria, U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan said he hoped the United States would decide to attend the racism conference but said the decision is "the sovereign right of each country." 
Bush will address the 
U.N. General Assembly in New York on Sept. 24, as presidents tradi­tionally do. His advisers 
insist the United States is not with­drawing from the world but merely practicing "a la carte multinational­ism" --joining allies and participat­ing in global meetings when it suits 
U.S. interests. 

"Thus far you have to conclude that they're anorexic, because they haven't found any dishes that they like," said Antony Blinken, a senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and 
'There's a broad recognition that despite the criticism ofthe United States, the U.S. is a necessary participant in any kind ofeffective UN. undertaking." 
Richard Falk Princeton University 

germ warfare. The adminis­tration also opposes other treaties, includ­ing one to cre­ate an interna­tional criminal court, the world's first permanent war crimes tri­bunal. 
Others believe that it makes sense for the admin­istration to avoid U.N. con­
ferences it opposes as long as it pro­vides alternatives. 
"If you're bailing out of everything, it reduces the political value of bail­ing out of things in particular." said Timothy Crawford, a postdoctoral fel­low at the Brookings Institution's Foreign Policy Studies. 
For its part, the United Nations still resents that the United States has not paid $460 million in back dues, yet still seeks American input. said Richard Falk, an international law professor at Princeton University. 
"There's a broad recognition that despite the criticism of the United States, the U.S. is a necessary partici­pant in any kind of effective U.N. undertaking," Falk said. 
The summit on children would be the largest gathering of world leaders this year with 75 heads of govern­ment. It will focus on issues such as child health, child soldiers and child labor. 
as landmark 
Associated Press 
FRESNO, Calif. 

In what could prove to be a fleet­ing moment of glory, the Fresno municipal landfill -79 million cubic yards of rotting garbage so foul it is a Superfund toxic waste site -has been designated a national historic land­mark. 
The landfill earned the distinction Monday, joining such notable places as Monticello, Ernest Hemingway's house in Key West. Fla., and Walden Pond. 
Before the day was out, Interior Department officials were having sec­ond thoughts after learning the 145­acre dump was given the ignoble Superfund label by the Environmental Protection Agency in 1989. 
Denis Galvin, deputy director of the National Park Service, wrote to Interior Secretary Gale Norton, asking that the historic landmark status be withdrawn. Galvin said he did not know of the Superfund designation when he recommended the landfill as one of 15 sites Norton honored for their national historic and cultural sig­nificance.
An Interior Department spokesman said Tuesday that the agency would speak with city officials before remov­ing the historic distinction. 
Environmental groups said the toxic landmark symbolized the Bush admin­istration's distance from the people of California. 
"It seems to me that somebody didn't do their homework and didn't do any thinking," said Carl Pope, exec­utive director of the Sierra Club. "What can I say, it's just weird." 
I I 

~ .KINT & Pos,-elf 
;$'._p9C LAST 3 DAYS!! ' 
Wednesday-Friday, August 29-31 Notre Dame Room-2nd Floor LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 9:30am-6pm 
Sponsored qy 

LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
,, II • • 
.. \ .. ' . .. 
1JJART PRINT & 
~POSTER SALE 
~~...... f,r,••••/ ---; ... 
fk;,l,IMI'• Wi1Y8 • or• ..•"•'""' -. ~ 
page 10 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, August 29, 2001 
ls Latin 
···•··.R.· .......i· .·· .. ·•···1·.·.· ..··1· ·... · ····o·· ·... · . · d··•·.?
: · ·e··a· : .:e•a·
. . ··y···· · · · . ·· .. . ·
.. . . . . . 
,,. . .. . ·.. .. . . . ·.. . . 
. . . 
why the, Academy 
and the Church ·:sfzould Preserve 
the Latini Language 
An informal conversation with 
Reginald Foster, O.C.D. 
Department ofLatin Letters Secretariat of State The Vatican 
.Thursday, August 30, 2001 
. .. .· .. . . .... ........ ... . · · 4 p.m. ... . ·.. •·Law' Scnool Courtroom 
.Sponsored by: · the Departmentof Classics, the Medieval Institute, · the Department of Theology and tfte Notre Dame Law School 
Wednesday, August 29, 2001 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Deillocrats see Condit as liability Study: Radio waves 
Associa1ed Press 
WASHINGTON 

Senior Democrats increasingly see Hep. Gary Condit as a liabili­ty and distraction in making their case to the country on poli­cy issues and are stepping up criticism to distance him from the party. 
The Democrats worry that the public's focus is on lhe contro­versy over Condit and his rela­lionship with missing intern Chandra Levy instead of on the economy, budget and spending for social programs. Party lead­ers have been hoping those issues can win them control of' Congress in 
next year's 
"What he [Condit] offered after their 

elections. 
return.
in the interview was

"We can'-t go 
Party aides

anywhere simply unacceptable." 
said there

witholll people 
likely won't be

saying, 'What 
a massive call
Patrick Kennedy

do you think 
for Condit's

about Gary Rhode Island Democratic 
resignation, in

Condit?'" com­representative 
part because

plained Hep. Charles Rangel, D-N.Y. House Minority Leader Dick Gephardt's strong rebuke of' Condit last Friday was the first open criticism from a Democratic leader of the seven­term congressman from California's Central Valley. It sent a signal to other Democrats, and since then oth­ers have criticized Condit, who was popular with colleagues in both parties before the Levy case. 
California Gov. Gray Davis, a longtime Condit friend who employs both of' Condit's chil­dren, joined the critics Monday, an indication that support is eroding for the congressman, even among allies. 
"They don't want to be tar­nished with secondhand sleaze," said Sherry Bebitch 
Jeffe. a political science profes­sor at the University of Southern California. 
When Congress returns next week after a monthlong break, several Democrats plan to denounce 
Condit, according to senior party aides on Capitol Hill. Some already have privately told Gephardt that action is needed to distance the party from the California lawmaker. 
Gephardt floated one possibili­ty to signal the party's disgust: stripping Condit of his Intelligence Committee assign­ment. Erik Smith, a Gephardt spokesman, said Gephardt prob­ably will talk to Democrats about Condit informally 
Democratic 
prospects would be poor in a special elec­tion that would ensue if Condit were to step down. 
Rangel, the senior Democrat on the House Ways and Means Committee, called Condit "an embarrassment" to Congress and his family but said his col­league's political future was best left to voters in Condit's dis­trict. 
There is newfound uncertain­ty about whether Condit will run next year, especially after California lawmakers finish their once-a-decade task of redrawing congressional dis­tricts. 
Chad Condit, the congress­man's son, said Monday he would advise his father not to seek re-election. Condit has 

until early December to decide. 
Condit's poorly received per­formance in a series of inter­views last week has eased pres­sure on Davis to protect Condit in redistricting. Democratic strategists already are looking at ways to carve up Condit's dis­trict in a way that will help party lawmakers in nearby jurisdictions or to add 
enough Democratic voters to give another Democrat a shot at holding the district. 
The congressman's standing among fellow politicians had begun to drop even before he broke his almost four-month silence to discuss his relation­ship with Levy, the 24-year-old woman from Modesto, Calif.. who disappeared May l. 
But Condit's support has fallen since the interviews. 
Rep. Patrick Kennedy, D-RJ.. former chairman of the Democrats' House campaign eommittee and a key party fund­raiser, has had a close-up view of media scrutiny of his family. He said he understands when public officials try to protect their privacy, but he believes Condit could have been more forthcoming, particularly in last week's interview with ABC's Connie Chung. 
"What he offered in the inter­view was simply unacceptable," Kennedy said. 
But Thomas Mann. an expert on Congress at Washington's Brookings Institution, played down the significance of Condit's woes to congressional Democrats. 
"It's a soap opera," Mann said. "We're now beginning to get some real politics and policy discussions from the budget struggles, violence in the Middle East, stem cell research. The Condit story is just not that interesting." 
may kill mussels 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 

Low-frequency radio waves might someday be used 
instead of chemicals to control zebra mussels. which cause 
millions of dollars in damage by clogging water intake pipes 
at power plants and other installations, researchers said 
Tuesday. 
Zebra mussels in an aquarium that were exposed to very 
low-frequency electromagnetic waves -around 60 hertz, or 
similar to what is emitted by a power outlet -died within 
40 days, according to a study conducted by undergraduate 
students at Purdue University•Calurnet in Hammond, Ind .. 
and presented Tuesday at an American Chemical Society 
meeting in Chicago. 
Though field-trials still must be conducted, the technology 
appears promising, said Matthew F. Ryan, associate profes­
sor of chemistry at Purdue. The technique appears to be safe 
for fish and other aquatic lif'e, he said. 
Chemicals such as chlorine and bromine have been used to 
kill the mussels, but there are concerns about the safety of 
the substances. Ryan said. 
Brought to the United States in the ballast water of ocean­
going ships in the 1980s, zebra mussels spread rapidly 
through the Great Lakes and other inland waterways and 
have caused millions in damage to power plants and boats. 
Gary Wege, a biologist with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service in Minnesota, welcomed the study, saying that most · efforts to control zebra mussels have failed. 
"If you could zap the critters right from the water, that 
would be great," Wege said. If the technique proves effec­
tive, Wege said, electrical barriers could block the mussels 
from infesting other waters. 
Ryan said irradiation appeared to cause zebra mussels to 
lose large amounts of calcium -essential for shell health 
and muscle control -as well as sodium and potassium. Only 
10 percent of unexposed mussels in another tank died after 
40 days, he said. 
During experiments, fish collected from the same waters 
and put in the same tank as the mussels survived. Native 
clams did not die until being exposed for 90 days. 
Ryan said the technology would have to be installed in 
intake pipes and the radio waves aimed at specific spots. 

•------------· -----------------­
O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 12 Wednesday, August 29, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 Somh Dimng Hall. Notte Dam,, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CJ-flf:F Mike Connolly 
ll.fANAGrnC EDITOR  BVSlNESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
AssT, MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerr)' Smith  Par Pcrers  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason Md'arley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Am,tadter 
SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAim ~tr's EDITOR: Myra McGriff 
PHOTO EDITOR: Perer Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze St.>7:EMS ADMINISTRATOR. Palwd Chin WEil ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner 
CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan 
GJtAf'HICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE .MANAGER/GENER.AL INFO ...........631-7471 
FAX............................................................. 631-6927 
ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4 542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS........ .................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT... ...........................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS.. ....................................................C,31-4543 observer.spons. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MAfly's. ......................................... 631-4324 
observer.smc. \@nd.edu PHOTO............... ............. ·····-················ ....C,31-8767 SYSTEMS/WU ADMINISTRATORS................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire at http:l/ob,erver.,uiedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as carroons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated. Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for
weather for up-to-the 
weekly srudenr reviews
minuce forec:iscs 
online features for spe­
advertise for policies 
and rares of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
about The Observer
archives to search for 
arcicles published after 
to meet che editors and 
staff
August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saine Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Obseiver reseives the nght to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority of rhe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commem:aries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily chose of The 
Obse,vcr 
Viewpomc space is available co ail readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lerrers is encouraged. Lecccrs to the Editor muse be signed and must include conca..:t information. 
Questiu,u regarding Obseroer po/icier shuu.ld be direct­ed to &liter in ChiefMilte Cormolly. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Maribel Morey Amanda Greco Amy Greene Graphics Maureen Smithe Katie McKenna Sports Production Katie Hughes Jeff Baltruzak Viewpoint Lab Tech Lori Lewalski Tony Floyd 

A couple weeks ago I helped my lit­tle sister move into college. Needless to say, I got all weepy and introspec­tive during and after the move. 
Memories of my early college expe­rience saturated my mind, and I Eric Long realized that I had so much to tell her that l Fitter, would never be Happierable to articulate. 
So I just mum­bled something big-brotherly, hugged her and drove off in the car with my parents. 
I am a senior. Just writing it sends flutters to my stomach and contorts my face into a twisted anxious gris mace. I am older than I was when a freshman. One would think that I had learned something through my expe­riences in college; that I could look back from the mountaintop across a valley of conquered obstacles and beam with satisfaction. 
The one thing I have certainly learned as I've grown older is that there is no mountaintop and that obstacles just keep springing up, but you have to smile regardless. 
I couldn't force myself to tell my sister about this little known (yeah,right) secret. Better she finds out on her own. Nonetheless, I want­ed to do something for her, to throw out a tiny acorn from the store of knowledge I have hoarded like a blind squirrel the past few years. So I wrote a tiny advisory pamphlet for her and thus proved myself a total dork. 
But then I realized that I could help first year students everywhere with timely advice. Alright, instead of timely advice I can only offer mean­ingless and rambling advice, not unlike the advice your parents have offered up all summer. 
Don't take this advice too seriously right now. Rather, return to it several 
POLL QUESTION 

The Observer will discontinue either Dilbert or 
"ffonly we'd stop trying to be happy we
Fox Trot for the 2000-2001 publishing year. To 
could have a pretty good time. " 
vote for your favorite comic, please call 631-4541 before noon on Friday. 
Edith Wharton author 

Current Tally: Dilbert 60%, Foxtrot 40% 
times over the next few years, mull over it and gradually come to realize that I am indeed the smartest man alive. 
I have divided your college experi­ence into headings for easy reference. 
Food: Someone said you are what you eat. This statement is complete gibberish, and to make matters worse it spawned millions of bad elemen­tary school jokes like "Susie eats ele­phants." But food is generally needed at least once everv seven davs. 
The dining halls' aren't home cook­ing, unless home is a ramshackle log­ging outfit in the Pacific Northwest. Sure, it seems OK at first. However, after a few weeks the shine rubs off. What to do? Find a few items that absolutely cannot be tainted by the dining hall's overarching pestilent reach, such as cold cereal, salad bar items (not always) or french fries. 
Never eat the things that look or sounds good. That seared Cajun pol­lacki is only going to taste like your shoe. Don't eat alone too often, as good table conversation lightens the Dickensian orphanage mood brought about by the poison gruel you will be eating. 
Love: I don't know anything about love. All I know is I, like many of you, came to school with a significant other from back home. We decided to try to stay together, vowing to end it as soon as our hearts were no longer completely dedicated to each other. 
Two-and-a-half years later. we somewhat unceremoniously broke it off after lots of fighting and the gross national product of Qatar spent in phone bills. Even though I don't regret a minute of it, I don't know if I would recommend the same path. 
If you have a relationship with a high school sweetie. just keep an open mind and don't be afraid to make mistakes. If you're single. com­mence having fun, because (I'm told) that's what single people do their first couple years of college. 
Roommate: The hardest task per­formed in life is to live with someone. That said, having a roommate is kind of fun. But like the ying and yang. there is light and dark commingled in the roommate relationship. The bene­fits include having a comrade, some­one to hike with to the bookstore. a dining companion and an open ear. 
There are drawbacks: lack of per­sonal privacy and/or space, sharing (which is an important skill that's hard to remember) or the whipped roommate always talking to his hometown girlfriend on the phone (wait. that was me). 
You'll have different sleeping habits. personal hygiene traits, tastes in music (the list could go on). but you might end up best friends. 
Class: Oh yeah, I forgot about acad­emics. As I learned from that cool commercial with the rapping pen­guins. if you want to be cool you gotta stay in school. The surest path to higher grades is regular class atten­dance. You'll find that getting out of bed is difficult, b,ut try to miss class only when you're sure that it won't come back to bite you. Also. don't dedicate too much time to your stud­ies. 
Well, I'm pretty tapped out now. Deal with college day by day. remem­ber to live -which means accepting the good and the bad. Sometimes you will feel more alive than ever. some­times you will be crushed and depressed. It's all in life, and it's much better than the alternative. 
Eric is a senior majoring in the Program ofLiberal Studies. His col­umn runs every other Wednesday. He can be reached at long.31@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

Wednesday, August 29, 2001 BSERVER page 13 

GUEST COLUMN 

Voters, not press, should replace Condit 
LINCOLN, Neb. For if Condit is to be replaced, it 
With calls for Rep. Gary Condit's res­should be by the individual voters. not ignation coming from many fronts in by an acclamation of the press. the wake of Chandra Levy's disappear­And while the 30 protesters outside ance, a now chapter has been penned his office do constitute a collection of in the sadly ongo-voters, they are by no means a majori­ing saga. ty, insofar as his 500,000 other con­
Staff Editorial 
The new authors stituents have not been individually of this tract are sought out by pollsters. 
·none other than the Condit denies killing Chandra Levy. editors of the The Daily We may never know. as Washington, "Modesto Bee." the Nebraskan D.C.. Police Chief Charles Ramsey has largest newspaper emphasized. in Condit's district. And so the demonization of Congress­
Though not the first time that the Bee man Gary Condit shall continue, has made intimations toward Condit's deservedly or not. resignation. last Friday's editorial was While he has not been the most forth­arguably the most inflammatory and right and upstanding member of the pointed. legislative community for the past 
Fpllowing a nationally televised inter­year. he has nonetheless cleared from view with ABC's Connie Chung, Condit any and all wrongdoing -except in was again admonished by the Bee for the Bee. his early silences and "weasel-like per­He will not be liked. And he will most formance" in the interview. likely not be re-elected. To declare 
While Condit's silence is despicable, public opinion is the right of kings, and the question nonetheless remains as to king media has taken its right. what extent the media can coerce Whether Condit engaged in an affair answers and affect changes such as with Levy is immaterial at this point. resignations in the federal government. That has sadly become the focus of the 
After all, Condit has committed no news instead of whether this young crime and is no longer under police woman will be found. investigation. And the answer coming from the 
And while Levy's disappearance is media is that she is dead. And that she unfortunate and saddening, has the is dead because she had an affair with role of the media caused the case to Condit; as if somehow the two are a overshadow other, equally unfortunate revolving corollary and nobody ever and saddening disappearances. specifi­disappears in Washington, nobody ever cally in Washington? gets killed, nobody ever has alleged 
There are hundreds of disappear­affairs with congressmen. ances in the nation's capital every Chandra Levy is gone. She may never year. So what makes this case news? come back. The news is in the tragedy 
In a simple answer. the news makes of this event -not in the excoriation it news. of an innocent man. 
From the beginning, this case has been driven by the media. Every inves­This column first appeared on August tigation, every new search, every ques­27 in the University ofNebraska's tion asked has been at the behest of newspaper, The Daily Nebraskan. It is the public eye. provided here courtesy of U-WIRE. 
Asking for a resignation only seemed the next logical step. The views expressed in this column are 
Though the fourth estate has a right those of the author and necessarily to provide a magnified voice for the those of The Observer. public. it seems a paltry and degrading policy to continue this exercise thusly. 
Snickers bars. peanut butter and a form of cheese. I joke now but I 
know that these will be my vices when I feel the need to eat American. 
The Peace Corps car dropped me off at my counterpart's house and the reaction of her children was representative of the array of reac­tions I get wherever I go, whatever I do and at any time of day or night. 
The 10-year old tried to talk to me and laughed at my broken French and complete ignorance of Pulaar. The 6-year old ran screaming and crying across the sand to his neigh­bor's house and refused to return for two days. The 2-year old yelled "toubab" (white person) at the top of her lungs and after we sat down. examined my hands. my Nalgene bottle, my ball point pen, my b::m­dana and any other American things she could find 
The two-month old immediately accepted me for obvious reasons. She never learned I was an outsider and she speaks about as much walking I must wrap my head and squint my eyes and hope I can find my way. 
This is a summation of my life. Strangely it makes me ecstatic. I get to watch my counterpart's children grow for two years. I will learn Pulaar. I can travel to places I did not even know existed two months ago. I have the unique opportunity to live in Africa. My life is surreal, as are the next weeks, months and years as I take my eighth malaria pill. 
Maite Uranga graduatedfrom Notre Dame in 2000 as an anthro­pology and government major. She is currently a Peace Corps volunteer in the Islamic republic of Mauritania. Her views do not neces­sarily represent those of the Peace Corps. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
VIEWPOINT I S HIRING 
COPY EDITORS AND COLUMNISTS CALL LAUREN AT 1-5303 OR EMAIL HER AT OBSERVER.VIEWPOINT .l@ND.EDU 

O
THE 
BSERVER 


CENE 
campus
Wednesday, August 29, 200] 
page 14 
Moving in around the globe 
This is why my mother stressed out about the packing list Walsh Hall sent me as an incoming freshman: it told me l might need extra-long sheets to fit my bed. 
This is why my mother stressed out about the packing list Columbia University sent me for its study-abroad program: it 
suggested I bring contraceptives. 
Needless to say, packing for this semester is the first wake-up call that I'm not in Indiana anymore. Long gone are the days of stuffing a caravan of cars with 27 cardboard "ND" boxes, an ille-· gal microwave and every SYR dress I own. Now I have orily two suitcases, each restricted by that evil 70-lb. weight limit 
Laura Kelly 
French 
Connection 
Somehow, I became a Columbia student, a technicality proven real by the packing list's frank suggestion. But while this may leave me parietal-free for the semester, it does not make this Domer a happy packer. 
For starters. I can't tote along every Notre Dame-embla­zoned piece of clothing I own. The French would scoff at my apparent obsession with their cathedral, and besides, you can't truly strut down Parisian boulevards in anything that is not black, skin-tight or boasting an extravagant designer label. I need a beret, a boa or one of those ridiculous Kate Spade handbags, not a dingy "King of Schools" T-shirt. 
Then there's the problem of having to pack enough to get me through summer, fall and winter -as well as every weather condition Europe could throw my way. Somehow I have to become sensible and shove aside piles of club-ready tube tops to make way for practical boots and an umbrella. What's a girl to do? 
How do I decide what to leave and what to take? If I trust my gut, I'll end up with cute shoes I won't wear, 200 "essential" compact discs and a copy of every French novel I've ever read, just in case some prof assigns it again. The baggage guys at Northwest Airlines might not be happy with that load, and I'd also probably forget to bring something important, like socks. 
But what can I leave behind? How do I know I won't be stuck in my apartment some rainy day and think, "Gosh, if I only had that blue turtleneck, Lou Reed's Transformer album and the collected sonnets of William Shakespeare, this would be a per­fect evening." I'm only trying to be prepared. 
Which is why I'm still stuck here packing, trapped in my room by piles of clothes and shoes and books begging to cross the Atlantic with me. I leave for Paris in 48 hours, but I'm starting to wish I was already moved in on-campus, sleeping peacefully on a loft while all my clothes hang neatly in the closet. Then I wouldn't be here deliberating between a French dictionary (useful) and my Dogbook (amusing, probably not so necessary}. Packing my life into two measly bags instead of two spacious cars is starting to drive me crazy. 
But then again, I'm headed off to a city where people spend their days sipping red wine, chain-smoking in cafes, arguing about Sartre and allegedly finding some use for contracep­tives. Things could get interesting, even if I only have a suit­case in each hand. 
Laura Kelly is a junior majoring in French and English. She is currently studying abroad in Pans, hoping her new room­mate will grow to appreciate the Michael Jackson History CD she couldn't bear to leave at home. French Connection will appear every Monday in Scene. Contact Laura Kelly at LKelly@nd.edu. 
lVant to write about ca1npus events, write features, review CDs or movies1 Contact Scene at 1.4540 or e-mail us at scene@nd.edu 

You can't take 
Scene takes a look at the reality and hassle of 
By JACQUELINE BROWDER 
Scene Wrirer 

It all begins the moment you open your 
acceptance letter. You start to envision 
yourself sitting in a spacious, parent-free dorm room, surrounded by good friends, good times and a state-of-the-art entertain­ment system. You can't wait for college to begin. 
Over the summer, you begin to plan. You receive a room assignment and a roommate or two. You sift through all of the practical gifts, like tool kits and monogrammed towels, that you received for grad­
-uation. You may even pick 

'1t was nostalgic watching 

at parties. You can't forget
up a few rolls of duct tape 

when you stop by Wal-Mart the freshmen move in. that. And you certainly can't for sunscreen and beach They were moving their forget your unabridged 
towels. Webster's Dictionary and all
world into Notre Dame's." 
However, once the two­your literary favorites from week countdown to fresh­high school. 
Kathleen O'Connor Before you know it, you're
man year begins and you 

realize that all of your resident assistant sitting on top of your over­earthly possessions have to stuffed suitcase, realizing
Breen-Phillips 
that you need to buy anotherfit in the back of the family mini-van, the phenomenon of freshman packing begins. prompting the question: Why do freshmen bring so much stuff to college? 

"When I was a freshman, our car was stuffed and we even had to add a rooftop car­rier on top of our Honda Accord to fit every­thing in,"said Kristin Zielmanski, a junior from Breen-Phillips Hall. "I think my parents were more concerned with what I needed than I was. I brought a ton of stuff -all the clothes I ever owned -things I hadn't worn in years. I brought so much I didn't need, like this big director's chair from Pier One that just sat in the corner unused all year." 
It starts innocently enough. You pack your favorite track T-shirts and your fool-proof khakis and maybe a few pictures of you and your friends at the senior prom. You add all of the winter gear you've heard you'll need while living in the Midwestern tundra known as South Bend, Ind., and buy the best avail­able laptop. 
Then comes the new clothes your mother insisted you buy before you leave, along with all of the Notre Dame athletic gear you own and your baseball cap collection. Maybe you add your favorite bean bag chair and your scrapbook of childhood memories. Oh, and your sombrero you got in Mexico that could be fun 
duffle bag and maybe rent a conversion van to haul your stuff to school. 
"When I was a freshman, people told me to bring all sorts of things I didn't need, like a full tool box and tons of duct tape,"said Knott Hall junior Brian Price. "It got to be more than I could ever hope to fit into a dorm room." 
Somehow, what may not fit in a dorm room can be stuffed in a ·minivan. And after some creative arranging and a rather crowded road trip. you make it on campus to begin your life as a college student. 
You enter what you thought was going to be your personal paradise and end up staring an 11x16 cinderblock palace in the face. The thought of fitting your car-full of stuff in there is like trying to fit a glass slipper on a step­sister. It can't be pretty. 
"It was nostalgic watching the freshmen move in,"said Kathleen O'Connor, a senior resi­dent assistant from Breen-Phillips. "They were moving their world into Notre Dame's. Best was their reaction when they saw their room for the first time and real­ized that their whole life has to fit into this little place." 
Unfortunately, most people's lives prove too big for a Notre Dame dorm room and you end up putting your life-size cutout of the Backstreet Boys and most of your souvenir shot glasses back in the car with your parents. You then realize that you've still got two boxes of clothes and 10 Yaffa Blocks that may have to be sus­pended from the ceiling in order to fit into your already overcrowded room. And all this before your roommate shows up. 


O
THE 
BSERVER 


CENE 

cam us 
Wednesday, August 29, 2001 page 15 

·t all with you • • • or can you? 
oving into dorms and the carloads ofunnecessary junk we haul cross-country 

It's as if your luggage spawns while you're on your way to school and becomes an uncontrollable mess the minute you arrive at school. Is it more an err on the side of caution or just a remedy for calming pre­college nerves? 
"One girl brought a 15-passenger van with her,"said Bethany O'Hanlon. a junior and Freshman Orientation co-chair from Pasquerilla East. "Another brought 10 boxes that were filled with nothing but books." 
It's amazing how much you think will fit in a room. Traditionally. when it comes to decorating a room, girls think that more is definitely more. However, it isn't always the case. 
"Guys bring more electronic equipment. like stern­os and speakers."said Keenan resident assistant Sean Lyons. "But, when l walk into a girl's room, I realize that I didn't bring anything at all to school. Girls bring curtains, rugs, borders -and everything matches. However, one freshman in my section put blow up chairs, beach balls, a sword and a gold foot­ball helmet in his room. When he wants to get out of bed he has to move all of his stuff so he can walk around the room." 
Between tool boxes, duct tape and beach balis. breathing room can become scarce in a dorm room. However, as the year moves along, you learn that you really don't need every compact disc you've ever bought and leave Hootie and the Blowfish on the shelf. You· bring selective and strategic pieces of clothing and throw out what you don't really need. And, as with most things learned as a freshman, sophomore year you come back as someone who knows better. 

Contact Jacqueline Browder at Browder.l@nd.edu. 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, August 29,2001 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Nunez's· three-bagger powers Pirates to 6-5 win 
• Astros defeat Reds on the strength of Jeff Bagwell's 33rd homer 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE 

Abraham Nunez hit a two­run triple in the eighth inning Tuesday night as the Pittsburgh Pirates rallied past the Milwaukee Brewers, 6-5, to snap an eight-game road losing streak. 
Pittsburgh, whose road record of 19-49 is the worst in the major leagues, erased a 4­3 deficit with three runs in the eighth. 
Aramis Ramirez singled to open the inning and stole sec­ond. After Kevin Young drew a two-out walk off reliever Curtis Leskanic (2-5), Craig Wils'on singled home Ramirez to tie it 4-4. Nunez then fol­lowed with a triple into the right-field corner. 
Scott Sauerbeck (2-2) struck out the side in the seventh for the win, and Mike Fetters pitched a shaky ninth to get his sixth save. 
After Mark Loretta hit a run­scoring double with one out, pinch-runner James Mouton advanced to third on Jeromy Burnitz's grounder to second. Fetters then intenionally walked Richie Sexson before striking out pinch-hitter Angel Echevarria to end the game. 
Devon White's pinch-hit RBI single in the sixth inning put Milwaukee on top 4-3. 
Milwaukee scored three runs in the fourth inning to go in front 3-1. Sexson led off with his 33rd home run, a 438-foot shot to center. Geoff Jenkins, Jose Hernandez and Lopez followed with consecu­tive singles to make it 2-1, and Lou Collier added a sacrifice fly. 
The Pirates cut it to 3-2 in the fifth on an RBI double by Gary Matthews, Jr. 
Pittsburgh tied it at 3 in the sixth. Brian Giles walked to open and advanced to third on a ground out and fly out. Craig Wilson followed with a bad­hop RBI single off the glove of third baseman Lopez. 
The Pirates took a 1-0 lead in the top of the fourth with an unearned run on a throwing error by third baseman Lopez. 
Astros 6, Reds 4 
Jeff Bagwell's 33rd homer broke a tie, and Wade Miller won his 14th game as the Houston Astros defeated the Cincinnati Reds Tuesday night. 
Bagwell's solo homer snapped a 4-4 tie off Jim Brower {6-9) in the seventh. The Astros added an insur­ance run in the inning when Lance Berkman walked, Moises Alou singled him to third and Richard Hidalgo hit an RBI groundout for a 6-4 lead. 
Miller (14-7) pitched seven innings and allowed four runs on eight hits, including two solo homers by Dmitri Young. Miller struck out six and walked one as the Astros won for the ninth time in 11 games. 
Billy Wagner pitched the ninth for his 31st save in 33 opportunities. 
Reds starter Lance Davis went five innings and allowed four runs on seven hits and three walks. Davis had only one loss in his previous eight starts, which included five wins and two no-decisions. 
Miller got into trouble early when Todd Walker hit the first pitch of the game off the cen­ter field wall for a double. One out later, Ken Griffey's single made it 1-0. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right 10 edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
LOVE KIDS?  ROOMMATE WANTED:  This terrific one bedroom condo in  ND/Mich St. *"""hotel sleeps 4­ U2 Achtung Baby 1991  
WANTED  WANT TO EARN GOOD $$ BUT ONLY WORK A FEW HOURS  Campus View Apartments Private bedroom & PRIVATE  Woodbridge Condominiums is close enough to walk to NO. Why rent?  jacuzzi-refrig-hottub-exercise rm­pool-food-plagrd-shutle-min 2 nites- Zoo Station  
A WEEK?  BATHROOM!!! Large kitchen. Free  Own this for $62,900! Cobntact  $175 nite-9/21-27  Even Better Than the Real Thing  
-­ parking. $282.5/month. Contact me  Prudential One Realty or Cherie  219-291-5849/255-1020  One  
RESPONSIBLE. QUALITY CHILD- Area family needs individual to care  at guw@nd,edu. Emergency call:  TeRoller at 284-2600.  Until the End of the World  
CARE NEEDED in my home for 3  for our two daughters Mon-Fri from  219-243-2383  Who's Gonna Ride Your Wild  
year old & 7 month old. Monday thru Thursday 2:30 pm ­5 pm.  1  3-6pm starting mid-Sept. Mom attends grad school in Chicago.  PET REFUGE, a no-kill animal  Northshoer Condo, 1428 Marigold Way near ND, 1 bdr, 1 bath, LR,  TICKETS  Horses So Cruel  
Saturday a month. Own transporta­ shelter just 10 min from campus,  DR & kitchen w/ appliances. 1 car  The Fly  
!ion required. 5 mins from ND.  Girls are fun and delightful!  urgently needs FOSTERS and  garage. $69,000. Call Doris at 254­ BUY-SELL  Mysterious Ways  
Major in early childhood develop- Transportation needed. Generous  VOLUNTEERS for its cats and  1772 for more info.  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS  Tryin' to Throw Your Arms Around  
rnent or child psychology a plus.  pay! If interested, please call Karen  dogs. Please e-mail  Gently used loveseat + chair.  272-6619  the World  
References required. 6795.  Call 288·  Stonehill at 272-5013.  webm.islec~i;iet[!.lfuge,i;;Qrn, visit www petrefuge com. or call 256­ Taupe wl muted pinstripes; wood trim-"Broyhill" $150 674-6150  GA's 4 USC, MSU, TN, WVA 271­ Ultraviolet Acrobat  
OFFICIALS NEEDED tor baseball,  0886,  1654  Love is Blindness  
....  EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOP- softball, flag football and indoor  Futon w/solid wood frame $500.  
MENT CENTER PAID OPPORTU- lacrosse.  Experience preferred for  IN-HOME NANNY needed to care  Krups cappucino & coffee maker  WANTED-ND TICKETS  
NITIES  baseball officials.  Great opportunity  for infant. Must have transportation.  $70.  289-9280  I got bros in different area codes.  
to earn good money. Contact  Experience with infants and refer- Sony cordless phone & answering  
Eam money and build resume  RecSports office, Tara Fisher or  ences required. Congact Dr.  machine $30.  ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED  Danger! Watch yosell!  
experience while interacting with  Jeff Walker at 631-6100 or stop by  Knoedler at 631-4262 or~  277-0666,  A.M. 232-2378  
delightful young children.  the office in the Rolfs Sports Rec  dla@nd.edu.  P.M. 288-2726  Who's a better rapper, Snow or  
Center. You can also email us al  Vanilla Ice?  
The Early Childhood Development Center at Saini Mary's College Is currently accepting applications  1s.1i.:ii;igt1~mi,edu ON CALL BABYSITTER NEEDED.  FOR SALE  FOR RENT  NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE AM. 232-2378  Rubber chicken on the wall  
from college students for part time  NEAR ND.  HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM­ P.M. 288-2726  Get me out of here  
employment positions at lunch time.  PUSI  
FOR DETAILS CALL 273-2872.  Beautiful brass bed, queen size,  Mmmrenlals.com  NOW  
The hours available include MWF 11:25 a.m. -1:15 p.m.  WANTED:  wlth orthopedic mattress set. All new, never used, still in plastic.  Email: mmrnrentals@aol.com  PERSONAL  Too much space  
Highly organized, experienced legal  $235. 219-862-2082  THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and  
If you are interested in applying,  secretary or assistant to Pl trial  Breakfast Inn has space available  I really hate 2 a.m. South Bend TV  This really sucks big time  
please contact Kari Alford,  lawyer for new, spacious offices  60x30 desk  for footbalVparenl wknds.  5 rooms  
next to Notre Dame campus; hours  with private baths. $80-$115,  Ah, the Janet-Nelly-J-Lo-P-Diddy- Blue and Gold  
Program Director at ECDC-SMC at  flexible; competitive pay and bene•  60x30x72 desk + office chairs.  Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  Janet loop.  
284-4693 for more information and  fits. Call 231-1868 and leave mes- Toll Road Exit #107.  1·800-418­ AM,  
an application.  sage .  287-3373 ask for Cindy.  9487.  P. Diddy rules  Give pillwow a hug for me  

.. 
Wednesday, August 29, 200 l The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
RENOVATION 

! ·:,, ~ 
~

,: \t i' \i '~.,.) ~\ ii...,__ 
. 

B U t L D I N C, H E S B U R (; t-i L I B R .A. R Y FOR THE FUTURE 
Renovation ofthe Hesburgh Library's lower level has begun and will continue for many months. During that time, you can expect to encounter noise, dust, moves of staffand services, reduced seating, crowded conditions, and general inconvenience. For example: 
•  The Reserve Book Room (formerly on the second floor) has been relocated to 113 Hesburgh Library, on the west side ofthe first floor adjacent to Current Periodicals/Microtext.  
•  The Bill and Fine Office (formerly on the second floor) has been relocated to l ll Hesburgh Library, on the west side ofthe first floor opposite the new Reserve Book Room.  
•  The ISRC (International Studies Resource Center), formerly in 213 Hesburgh, has closed.  
•  In September, the vending machines and attendant public lounge area in the Hesburgh basement (known as "the Pit") will be moved to Hesburgh l05, off the east end ofthe main concourse adjacent to the William J. Carey Auditorium. Restrooms will continue to be located offthe second floor lobby.  
•  Readers' space has had to be redistributed within the library (your favorite study space may not be there any more.)  

The staffofthe Hesburgh Library are committed to making your,library experience as "normal" as possible. For up-to-date information about our renovation, please go to: 
http://www.nd.edu/~renovate/ 
... 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, August 29, 2001 
LITTLE LEAGUE WORLD SERIES 
Bronx pitcher in age controversy 
then we've been deceived and Felipe de Jesus Almonte, had 
Associated Press 
I'm angry about it," he said. registered his son's birth twice, "What we need to do is deter­\vith the earlier record showing mine which one of these docu­a 1987 birth date and the laterNEWYORK ments is correct." one showing 1989. 
Little Leaguers from the Bronx As part of the investigation, If Almonte were found to bereceived the keys to the city Van Auken said the organization ineligible, Little-League officialsTuesday and were honored for might have to send someone to said the Bronx team would have their sportsmanship despite an the Dominican Republic. to forfeit its last victory and theinvestigation into whether their Giuliani, when asked later Rolando Paulino league's char­star pitcher was too old to play. 

about the issue, said: "I think ter could be revoked. 
On the steps of City Hall, the youngsters should be given "He certainly plays like he'sMayor Rudolph Giuliani handed the benefit of the doubt." older than his years, but I wouldout the keys to pitcher Danny Almonte threw the first per­reserve comment until there'sAlmonte and 14 other members fect game in the Little League proof," said Tom Hart, whoseof the Rolando Paulino team, World Series in 44 years and State College, Pa., team waswhich finished third in the Little was the key to his team's strong beaten 2-0 by the Bronx in theLeague World Series on Sunday. 

showing in the South Mid-Atlantic Regional champi­The team says Almonte is 12, Williamsport, Pa., tournament. onship with Almonte pitching aborn on April 7, 1989, in Moca. 
The "Baby Bombers" came no-hitter. "lf it's a bogus docu­Dominican Republic. and has a within one game of the champi­ment, then somebody needs tosupporting document. But Little onship, losing to Apopka. Fla. be held accountable for whatLeague World Series officials They won the consolation game they're doing to this kid and thiswere shown an affidavit Monday against Curacao, Netherlands team. If it's true, my feelingsby Sports Illustrated that indi­Antilles. would be anger and frustra­
cated a Danny Almonte was 
Almonte finished the tourna­tion."
born April 7, 1987, in the town, ment with 46 strikeouts, giving At the ceremony, Giulianileague spokesman Lance Van up only three hits in three starts. praised the Rolando PaulinoAuken said. 
A run scored in the last inning of team, which will be honored
Little League rules prohibit 

his final game was the only run with a parade Wednesday.
any player born before Aug. 1, scored on Almonte all summer. "The team brought not only1988, from competing this year. 
Rumors about Almonte's age the Bronx together, but also the The age controversy was not plagued the team throughout whole city together," he said. 
addressed at the City Hall cere­
the tournament, and Little Added Keener: "We have
mony, but Little League Inc. 
League coaches in Staten Island, never had a finer group ofpresident Stephen Keener said N.Y., and Pequannock, N.J., said young men than these youngafterward the document found they hired private investigators men.... They certainly conduct­
by Sports Illustrated had not 
to find proof that Bronx players ed themselves on the field in abeen verified. 
were ineligible, but to no avail. very sportsmanlike manor, with"If the second birth record According to Sports class and great dignity. We arehappens to be the accurate one, Illustrated, Almonte's father, very proud of them." 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

Sammy Sosa meets Willie Mays' record 
inning. The crowd was roar­

. Sosa hits 17th 
ing as soon as the ball left run this month Sosa's bat, and it didn't stop to tie 26-year-old until he came out for a cur­
tain call.
NL record 

It was Sosa's 17th homer this month. tying the mark Associated Press set by Mays in August 1965. The major league record for homers in August is 18, sot CHICAGO by Detroit's Rudy York in 
Sammy Sosa hit his 52nd 1937. homer of the season Tuesday Sosa holds the major league night, tying Willie Mays' NL mark for homers in any record for most home runs in month, hitting 20 in June August. 
1998. He and York are the 
S o s a only two players in major hit a league history with two, 17­towering homer months. York hit 17 in shot in August 1943. his first The homer also gave Sosa at-bat, 438 for his career. That ties sending him for 27th on the all-time R y a n list with Andre Dawson ~ Dem p -who just happened to be at ster's 2-1 Sosa Wrigley on Tuesday night. p i t C h Dawson was on hand as the over the left-field fence for a Cubs gave out replicas of his two-run homer in the first 1988 Topps baseball card. 

TAcoQeELL: 
Need some food 
for thought
this year? 
Good at the TACO BELL@ located at: 231 Dixie Hwy., Roseland • 6351 State Rd. 23, South Bend 
~. . . : 
Crunchy :Beef Taco & •.. Small Drink Offel' expires 12/31/01. Offel' exo1udsB Chicken, 8teak and Supreme versions. Offer good only 
Q

e.t tbll TACO BEU.A, rest.aura.nt looe.t.ed at 231 Dixie Hwy., Roseland and 6351 Sta.to Rd. 23, ~ South Bend, IN. Plea.se present this coupon when ordering. Limit: One coupon per person per v1!1lt. Not good With any other offer. Vold lf copied, transferred or where prohibited. Ca.sh TACO redemption value 1120th cent. ©2001 TACO BELL CORP. 273·1 BELL 
,,, 
Wednesday, August 29, 2001 The Obseruer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, August 29, 2001 

AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Mussina regains control as New York defeats Toronto 4-0 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Mike Mussina made sure he didn't need much support Tuesday night, pitching eight scoreless innings to lead the New York Yankees to a 4-0 victory over the Toronto Blue Jays. 
Derek Jeter had three hits and Tino Martinez homered for the Yankees, who rebound­ed from a 3-4 road trip with the win. New York started the day four games ahead of sec­ond-place Boston, which lost 8­1 in Cleveland, in the AL East. 
Mussina (13-11), the third· worst supported starter in the AL coming into the game, has been frustrated lately by the lack of runs from his new teammates. But he took con­trol of the situation himself against Toronto. 
The right-hander gave up six hits, two walks and struck out six as he didn't allow a run for the second time in his past three starts. 
Mike Stanton put two run­ners on in the ninth before Mariano Rivera came on and retired pinch-hitter Chris Latham for his 41st save in 47 chances. 
New York beat Toronto for the sixth straight time and ended the Blue Jays' four­game winning streak: 
Esteban Loaiza (9-11) allowed four runs -three earned -and 10 hits in five­plus innings to snap his four­start winning streak against the Yankees, including three this year. 
Toronto scored 29 runs in 
those games. hammering rook­ies Christian Parker, Randy Keisler and Brett Jodie. But Mussina, helped out by poor Toronto baserunning and air­tight defense from the Yankees, gave up nothing. 
Vernon Wells and Brad Fullmer each got caught off second base on infield grounders, and Shannon Stewart ran the Blue Jays out of a potential big inning when he was caught rounding third too far on Carlos Delgado's double in the fourth. 
Toronto also had two run­ners -Alex Gonzalez and Raul Mondesi -caught steal­ing in the first three innings. 
Delgado nearly came up with a big hit with runners on first and third and two outs in the sixth, but his sinking liner was caught by a sliding Paul O'Neill in right field to end the threat. 
The Blue Jays went O-for-6 with runners in scoring posi­tion against Mussina. 
The Yankees had all the runs they would need just two bat­ters into the game. Jeter sin­gled and scored on O'Neill's double. Jorge Posada added an RBI single in the third, Martinez hit his 29th homer in the sixth and New York scored its fourth run on a throwing error by Wells in center field. 
Devil Rays 6, Mariners 0 
Paul Wilson threw seven impressive innings and the Tampa Bay Devil Rays handed Seattle an improbable 6-0 defeat Tuesday night, ending their eight-game losing streak against the Mariners. 
Ichiro Suzuki reached 200 hits, going 2-for-3 for Seattle 

and raising his AL-leading average to .349. Only two other rookies, Boston's Nomar Garciaparra (1997) and Kansas City's Kevin Seitzer (1987), have recorded 200 hits in a season since 1964. 
Tampa Bay, with the worst record in the majors at 48-84, beat the club with the best mark in baseball. 
The Mariners (94-38) lost their second straight game , they have not dropped three in a row this season. 
Rookie Toby Hall had a career-high three hits and Chris Gomez hit an inside-the­park homer. The Devil Rays have won 12 of their past 22 games against first-place teams. 
Wilson (6-8) allowed six hits and tied a season high with seven strikeouts. 
Joel Pineiro (3-1) allowed five runs and nine hits in 5 1-3 innings. 
Wilson pitched out of trouble in the first two innings, leaving five men on base and holding Seattle hitless in five opportu­nities with runners in scoring position. 
Seattle entered the day hit­ting .305 with runners in scor­ing position. 
The Mariners managed just three singles, all with two outs, over the next five innings against Wilson. 
Wilson had struggled in his past two starts, giving up 12 runs in 11 2-3 innings. 
Tampa Bay took a 1-0 lead in the first inning on Hall's RBI infield single. Randy Winn made it 2-0 with a run-scoring single in the fourth. 
Hall drove in a run with a 
single, Winn picked an HBI on a grounder and Gomez walked with the bases loaded to put the Devil Rays up 5-0 in the sixth. 
Orioles 6, Athletics 2 
Mark Mulder allowed four hits in eight innings and Ramon Heriiandez and Jason Giambi homered as the Oakland Athletics beat the Baltimore Orioles 6-2 Tuesday night. 
Mulder (16-7) gave up two first-inning runs and blanked the Orioles the rest of the way, keeping Baltimore hitless after the second inning. 
The left-hander struck out four and walked three to improve to 8-1 since July 1. Mulder's 16 wins are second­most in the league behind Roger Clemens' 17. 
Hernandez and Giambi both hit two-run homers off Sidney Ponson in a four-run fourth inning that put Oakland up 6­
2. It was Giambi's 32nd home run, the second in two games. 
Giambi went 2-for-2 with three walks and Johnny Damon had two hits, two steals and an RBI as the A's won their fifth straight on the road. Oakland's 32-13 record since the All-Star break is best in the majors. 
Ponson (5-10) allowed six runs and eight hits in four innings. He's 0-5 with a 6.31 ERA in 10 starts since June 28. 
Jeff Conine drove in two runs for the Orioles, who have lost four straight and six of seven to fall a seaso9-worst 23 games under .500 (54-77). 
Baltimore has tallied three runs in its last four games, scoring in only two of 36 
innings. 
The Orioles loaded the bases 
with no outs in the first before 
Conine hit a two-run single. 
Mulder then got Cal Hipken to 
hit into a double play and 
struck out Tony Batista. 
Oakland used RBI singles by 
Damon and Jermaine Dye to 
tie it in the third. 
Indians 8, Red Sox 3 
Dave Burba, demoted to the 
bullpen earlier this month, 
pitched seven strong innings 
Tuesday night for his first win 
since July 19, leading the 
Cleveland Indians to a win 
over the Boston Red Sox. 
Burba (10-8) allowed four 
singles and walked in one run 
in his best start since June. He 
walked two, hit two but got the 
big outs when he needed them. 
Kenny Lofton hit a two-run 
homer for Cleveland, which 
played without manager 
Charlie Manuel for the second 
time in three games. 
Manuel underwent abdomi­
nal surgery on Tuesday to 
have scar tissue removed from 
his colon. The 57-year-old 
manager is expected to remain 
hospitalized for a few days and 
isn't expected to rejoin the 
Indians until next week. Bench 
coach Grady Little managed in 
Manuel's absence. 
Meanwhile, the Red Sox are 
nervously awaiting results of 
an MRI taken Tuesday on AU­
Star shortstop Nomar 
Garciaparra's right wrist. 
Garciaparra, who had surgery in April, flew back to Boston to have the procedure ·after experiencing soreness over the weekend while the 
club was in Texas. 


SENIOR PORTRAITS! Sign Up on the Internet NO\V @ www. LaurenStudios.com to ensure your place in your20tl2 Dome Yearbook! WttO: Class of 2002 WttfN: Pictures taken Sept. 3 -Sept. 21 Whet-e.•• La Fortune 108 Why: To Be In the 2002 Dome --~ ~. ~.~ Bemembf!r to Sign llp Today! .~) www. LaurenStudios.com  

Wednesday, August 29, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Valentin's homer in 8th inning wins it for Sox 
Associated Press 
Jose Valentin hit a two-run homer in the eighth inning as the Chicago White Sox overcame a five-run deficit to beat Detroit 8-6 Tuesday night. 
The White Sox (66-64) have won six of seven and are two games over .500 for the first time this season. They are the first team since the 1991 Milwaukee Brewers to have a winning record after being 15 games under .500. according to the Elias Sports Bureau. 
Detroit. which led 6-1 after two innings, has lost six of seven and its last nine games against the v\'hitc Sox. 
Four of Valentin's last six hits have been homers. His two-run homer Tuesday, his 22nd of the season, also scored Royce Clayton. who started the inning with a bro­ken-bat single off Danny Patterson (5-4). 
Alan Embree (1-1) got two outs in the sev­enth and one in the eighth before being replaced by Bobby Howry. Howry also pitched the ninth for his fifth save in eight chances. . 
Jose Lima allowed five runs and 10 hits over 5 1-3 innings. 
Rocky Biddle gave up six runs, three earned, and nine hits. Biddle made his 19th start of the season, but his first since being sent to the bullpen July 25. He gave up just two hits after all a five-run second. 
The Tigers took a 1-0 lead in the first when Roger Cedeno singled, stole second and scored on an error by second baseman Ray Durham. 
Chicago tied it 1-1 in the second on Chris Singleton's sacrifice fly, which scored Paul Konerko. An inning-ending double play, with two on, got Detroit out of a jam. 
The first five Tigers to face Biddle in the second got base hits as they scored five runs, three earned, to take a 6-1 lead. Shane Halter hit a two-run triple and Deivi Cruz had an RBI single. Cruz and Juan Encarnacion scored when shortstop Clayton allowed a grounder to roll under his glove. 
i..i;I .2"001 Handspring !11c., Handsp1irig. Sprinf,1l>oard, VlSorPho11e, Visor and the t·iandsprinu logo tlre iradem<1rks of Ha11dsprinq. inc. t.ioi1n!JarnTM MP3 ptavor from !nn0Ge0r_ Inc. GPS Cmnpanionrt11 tro1n Magelian Corp. 
VISOR 
better than using your hand. 






Your hand is not a personal organizer. Your hand is not a GPS. Your hand is not a cell phone. Your hand is not an MP3 player. 

,,, 


More than just a personal organizer -with optional Springboard modules, you can tum Visor into a phone, an MP3 player or any number of handy devices. 


Rodntan under fire for extinguisher incident 
by Tuesday but the case was

. Former NBA under investigation, and Fletcher 
star under investi­said potential charges might include battery or tampering with
gation by Newport 
a fire extinguisher in a publicBeach police building. Rodman's sports manager, Steven Chasman, declined to dis­
Associated Press 
cuss the incident in detail. "My impression is that it was a
NEWPORT BEACH, Calif. 
misunderstanding, but I have noFormer NBA forward Dennis 
further com-ment,"Chasman

Rodman has gotten on the bad 
said.

side of Newport Beach police 
After the incident Rodmanagain, this time for allegedly went his

spraying a to 
boat, whichrestaurant full 

of people with "It appeared that some­was docked at 
a marina

a fire extin­one had said something 
behind the

guisher. 
that he didn't like." restaurant,
"It appeared and officersthat someone 

spoke with him 

had said some­Lt. Doug Fletcher there.
thing that he 
Newport Beach police officer 
"l don't think

didn't like," 
you could real­police Lt. Doug ly say he wasFletcher said of 

cooperative.

Sunday's inci-But he wasn't uncooperative,"dent at a Hooters in this beach­
Fletcher said of the former

front city. 
Chicago Bull and Detroit Piston,Witnesses told police Rodman who is well known to police

entered the restaurant about 
because of the 5:45 p.m. car­

disturbance

rying a fire "My impression is complaints theextinguisher. 
that it was a parties at his

He didn't 
oceanfront

appear to be misunderstanding.,, 
home have

intoxicated, 
generated.

Fletcher said. 
Steve Chasman Police have
After he 
visited

began spray­agent 
Rodman's

ing, police home moresaid, he got than 70 times over noise com­into a shoving match with one of plaints and he has been fined
the restaurant's patrons, then 
more than $3,000 for noise ordi­left. 

nance violations. Earlier this year Rodman had not been arrested 

Exhibition 
continued from page 28 
minutes into the first half. 
Notre Dame exploded for four more goals, all in the second half. beginning with sophomore Justin Detter's unassisted score. 
Sophomore Brian Jarvis then scored on an assist from Matt Russo. The Irish would then get another two quick goals from team co-captain Griffin Howard and midfielder Filippo Chillemi. 
"We can see the progress 


that we made both offensively and defensively," said Braun, who had a pair of goals in the tournament. "We worked on both sides a lot in the spring and developed a good game plan, and right now it is working out." 
In the contest Sunday, the Irish scored all three of their goals in the second half. Braun started off the scoring once again on an assist from sophomore co-captain Greg Martin. Jarvis later headed in a Chillemi assist for the sec­ond goal and sophomore Devon Prescod added the third just before the end of the game. 
Even with the two victories, the Irish do not want to let their successes go to their heads before the regular sea­son starts. 
"The atmosphere of the two gaines was good, but it was just a preseason tournament," Clark commented. "We know that we will have to step up our play because the talent level will step up." 
This Saturday, the Irish kick off Big East play at home against Villanova. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu. 

HP 315 Di(jtal Rio 600/32MBCamera MP3 Player .. . " .. , . ' . ' • l I 1 , • 1 • o Cwlon ZR20 or Handspring ViSOf ZR25 MC Camcorder Edge Handheld Buy more. Save more. Buy any Mac and receive a free Lexmark color printer* Save even more when you also buy these great products: (taX and other charges not included). Canon ZR20 or ZR25 MC Camcorder, HP 315 Digital Camera, Handspring Visor Edge Now's the time to buy your Mac. They're fast, easy to use, and Handheld, and Rio 600132MB MP3 Player. For each product you buy, you'll receive loaded with features. Expres.s yourselfby creating your own a$100 instant rebate. iMovies. Use iTunes to rip MP3s from your favorite CDs, or Take advantage ofspecial student pricing. You can even get an Apple bum custom CDs. Enhance your work with productivity Instant loan for Education. Buy and save online at the Apple Store for Education: and graphics software. And share files with anyone. www.apple.com/education/store, call 800-780-5009, or visit the Solutions Center in The benefits add up-just like the savings. CCMB, Room 112. Offer good between July 18, 2001, and October 14, 2001. • Sbre putthase ll!qUital Uld is51.0jea to i;;,tbtD Offtr~Ofl S6-9 ~.m rd::l:at :and 169Mlliulllcrurer'i Sugge,~ kl,:11 Price b the Le,.i1W\Z52 C.obr Jcrpnnier. 0~abo guod ltrnn:l 16'111D'II 1ffiJltb Jl.WMSRP 11nh' umark z,;., Culor JcrpfilH("[ CZOOI t;JPlt Cumpillt'r.htc. !Ji rijlblJrt:Smui ~ lbi: l,jipk..,,1M'it Jut', .4-,alld7bJnlldl{fen:nl"an:JTat/effwm. oft.ppk UJffljJUla; me.,~in ,re Ci tmdaibfrrounffll!f. tMw:leh u:radeffl(ri of~ u,~ hie.. OiberciJm{JIDlfandprodUl.lnUIIWJ:Mnl/onui berrin mtl)'bt­trad-,,,,tso{tbnTffSJJ«IUoecoapames. nlw:s blhnst!dfor~tf~r«l•1triabor ~rblar/J.,t/)•~rtnlltl!Ji 10,rprodua Autlmzed Je,eller  


Wednesday, August 29, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
NFL 
League faces first referee lockout 
Associated Press 
The NFL is about to learn what happens when its oft-criti­cized officials are not on the field. 
For the first time in its history, the league is set to use replace­ment oflicials after talks between the league and the NFL Referees Association broke off Tuesday in Dallas 
With the sides far apart on a contract to replace the one that expired in March, replacement officials would begin working Thursday night, when six exhibi­tion games are scheduled. 
"Their demands continue to be unreasonable and we remain very far apart, " NFL spokesman Greg Aiello said. "There was very little progress, minimal movement from their original position.•· 
The officials said the NFL had reneged on some of its pension and benefit improvements. Their salary proposals were 50-75 percent higher than the NFL's olTer, which doubles most cur­rent salaries by 2003. 
The result is that, barring some last minute breakthrough, this weekend's final exhibition games will be worked by 120 replacement officials signed la.,;t week from the ranks of NFL Europe, college and junior col­lege competition. 
The news didn't make many players happy. 
"We've worked hard and put a lot of time and effort into this, and we want the best possible guys out there, " New York Jets quarterback Vinny Testaverde said. "I believe those are the guys who have been calling our games !hrough the history of the league. 
Testaverde was the beneficiary of a bad call three seasons ago that led to the reinstatement of instant replay. 

"The replacements have a 
. lack of experience in our arena, the NFL, " said safety Robert Griffith, the Minnesota Vikings' union representative. "You see something over and over, you're going to get better at it. Our offi­cials get better at making the calls. "We are the league. The play­ers are the league. We want to be protected." The potential lockout marks the first time there has been any kind of job action involving NFL officials. There have been three in major league baseball -in 1979, 1984 and 1995 -plus an episode two seasons ago when union officials submitted their resignations and baseball accepted them, replacing a large group of long-term umpires. There also have been three in the NBA -in 1977, 1982 and 1995 -and a two-week action in the NHL in 1993. 
PRO TENNIS 
Williams vanquishes Slovakian newcomer 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

For the first match in defense of her U.S. Open championship, Venus Williams drew Lenka Dlhopol­cova, a p l a y e r w h o s e name she said she couldn't p r o ­nounce. 
That's 
o K Williams Elocution doesn't count at the Open. String the vowels and conso­nants in any order and it still comes down to serves and returns, aces and break points, the nuts and bolts of the game. In the end, Williams had the tennis tools 
necessary to deal with the 17-year-old who was making her Grand Slam debut on Tuesday. 
The result was a 6-2, 6-3 rubout, painless for all con­cerned, which was fine with Williams. 
"It was good," she said. "I don't want any hard matches, especially since my week last week. That was a rough week for me. I like to start a little slower this week. There were more unforced errors than I would like. but it felt good." 
Her title at New Haven last week gave Williams a nine­match winning streak coming into the Open. She was never in any danger against Dlhopolcova, even with the 32 errors and a first-serve percentage of just 52 percent. Williams hit 14 winners and a couple of aces and was on cruise control. 
She complimented the youngster. 
"I hadn't seen her," Williams said. She ·s a good player, though, a very good player. She· tried hard even when she was down 5-2." 
For the teen-ager from Slovakia, it was a good expe­rience, a tentative first step into tennis' big leagues where players like the Williams sisters, Martina Hingis, Lindsay Davenport, 

_ Jennifer Capriati and the 0th­ers can make every week an adventure. She even had one big moment. With Williams serv­ing for the match, the teen­ager broke her and then 
_ began urging the fans to cheer her underdog effort. Williams put an end to that in a hurry, breaking right back to finish the match. It was an impressive state­ment by the youngster, though. If she was feeling any Center Court pressure, it didn't show. 

You could score tickets to the Rose Bowl.· 
Hit our Web site or call I 877COLLEGE tn •lgn up for one of AT&rs College Plans. And register for a chance to win one of tw•., Grand Prize trips for you and three friends to the 2002 Rose Bowl.Winners l:-'~t: 
I+ Game dckets, para.de tickets I+ ABC hosplcailty pa~ty. game analyst meet I+ Airfare and ground transportation and greet,• production trailer tour• 
I+ Six days, five nights accommodations I+ Other great prizes Include M1> $500 spending money-•2S0 120-mlnute prepaid calling cards Iii+ Kick-Off luncheon passes •250 Rose Bowl T-shirts 
o AT&T IBOUNDLESS 


No purcha,e necessary. Open to U.S. residents who are regi-stered fl.II-time or pilrt•time cofliege stud-cn~.JB years or .1gc o: older as or Augu:.it ). 2.001 Void where prohibilcd. for Of6cfa1 RU~. 'Ii-sit www.aH..com/co11ege. Sw-eepslakes ends November 9, 2001. @2001 AT&T AO Rights ~se.--..:?d 
N@mfilE IIDATMIE IDicc~ SEASONS WANTED INDIVIDUAL GAMES 
Preferred Tickets 

INDIANAUNIVERSITY 
SOUTH BEND 
CONTINUING EDUCATION www.iusb.edu/-cted 

Be better prepared for these critical exams with an intensive review class from IU South Bend. 
What makes our programs stand out from the competition? 
• 
Value: Our review classes are priced hundreds of dollars LESS than other test prep programs. 

• 
Proven strategies for attacking even the most difficult questions. 

• 
Live, in-person instruction. No videotapes or remote telecasts. 

• 
Experienced instructors with up-to-date knowledge of the latest revisions in the tests, providing you with tips you may not find in a book or online. 

• 
In-class practice sessions with actual exam questions. , Extensive take-home materials for additional review and practice. 


THE FOLLOWING EVENING CLASSES ARE AVAILABLE THIS FALL: 
GRE Review: first section begins Sept. 5; second section begins Oct. 22. LSAT Review: class meets four Wednesdays, beginning Sept 5. GMAT Review: first section begins Sept. 5; second section begins Oct. 22.. 
I 
To register or for more information, 
I 
call lU South Bend Continuing Education: 237-4261. . 1 
page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, August 29, 2001 

DUFFY-MARIE ARNOUL TfThe Observer Junior kicker Josh Gentine and junior offensive tackle Jim Molinaro take a water break during practice on Aug. 22. Multiple college and professional players have died from heat-related illness at football camps this summer. 
Heat 
continued from page 28 
headaches and held him out of practice for two days while his body weight returned to normal. 
Campbell managed to avoided serious harm. But as he readily admitted, the rash of heatstroke-related deaths this summer added an element of fear. 
"I didn't really get scared until the heat­stroke things," he said. 'That really opene~ my eyes to the whole thing. My teammates kept saying you don't have anything to prove you're out here. You're with us -just take it easy." 
But it's hard for a player like Campbell to take himself out of practice. He faces tremendous pressure from himself, his teammates and his coaches to perform and produce on the practice field. 
And as a result of the deaths of four foot­ball players this summer, collegiate pro­grams across the nation are all answering the same question: Could this happen at your school, too? 
"There's not a minute that goes by in the day that I don't think about that," said Bob Davie, Noire Dame's head coach. "Our awareness is heightened because of these tragedies.·· 
Three NCAA football players have died in the past year from heat-related injury: Florida State's Devaughn Darling, Northwestern's Rashidi Wheeler and Florida's Eraste Austin. NFL player Korey Stringer also died from heat-related illness last month during preseason training. 
Davie said that after the first of the deaths, strength and conditioning coach Mickey Marotti and team doctor Jim Moriarity spoke to the Irish coaches about several warning signs that suggested a play­er was suffering from the heat. 
But while the coaching staff has become much more alert to the dangers of the heat, they haven't made any significant changes to the methods already in place. 
"We're not going to change our proce­dures, but we're certainly going to pay even more attention to it," Davie said. "You can't help it after what's happened over this sum­mer. " 
According to Marotti, those procedures are simple. 
"We still do things the same way," he said. "Our job is to make sure they're doing the right thing. We make sure they have plenty of water and that we do a good job with rehydration. We give the players supple­ments that help them rehydrate and replen­ish their carbohydrates. And then they have to make sure they're getting the right amount of rest." 
"Our approach has always been one of prevention," Russ echoed. "We haven't real­ly changed much." 
Nevertheless, despite all the preventative measures in place, situations can arise, and it's the job of the training staff to pull a play­er out ofpractice. 

"I know the signs, and it's my job to come in and say, 'He's had enough,"' Russ said. "I've had to do that before, and I'll continue to do that." 
But it's just not that simple to force a play­er out ofpractice." 
There are a tremendous amount of factors involved. The player wants to play because he wants to move up on the depth chart, he wants to take advantage of valuable practice time, or he's just plain tough. The medical staff wants to pull him out because they want him to be safe. And coaches need the practice time to prepare for games. 
"We always have the player's welfare in mind," Davie said. "There's a certain risk playing in the heat, but you have to think of something else. We have to be prepared to play games in the heat, too. I think the biggest issue, you know, whether you really like it or not, I think you do have to accli­mate players to play in hot conditions. I don't think this is necessarily old school. I think this is reality." 
Grant Irons knows exactly what it takes to respond to heat-related problem in a game. But a year ago, that wasn't the case. In last year's season opener, when the Irish hosted Texas A&M, Irons had to leave the game because of heat exhaustion. He complained of muscle cramps and dehydration, and the training staff pumped fluids into his body. That experience has dramatically changed Irons' perspective. 
'Tm definitely a lot more in tune with my body," the defensive end said. "I drink a lot of Gatorade. I know my body." 
But for too many players, it takes an expe­rience like Campbell's and Irons' to alert them to the dangers of hot weather. And for players like Florida freshman Eraste Autin, who collapsed and died of heatstroke during a voluntary workout July 29, their first experience with. the heat could be a fatal one. A study released by the University of North Carolina estimated that about 18 high school or college players have died of heat­related causes since 1995. 
It's a difficult task to balance the need to stay healthy with the need to practice. And it's a balance coaches and players across the nation are still seeking to find. 
"I think what's unfair is to send them into a game or the first game, second game, third game, fourth game, where they're not acclimated to that heat," Davie said. "There is a bal­ancing act there of getting out in the heat of the day and practicing because you are going to play in the heat. But you have to be smart. You have to be smart." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at 
asoukup@nd.edu. 



Recently licensed campus vendor providing: 
T-Shiru  Design Services  
C1p1  Quirk Printing  
PoJoShlru  Cemmiereial Printme •  
Jackm  Embroidery  
Ad Spedaltlet  ~reen Prln  

Ask about our new DORMSTORE!

:L 
Call 800-813-2113 
~112 Leunzto11 Park~~."~ ~~•~ •~--. ~14 _j 
-· ----------­

Wednesday, August 29, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS 
WUSA 
ND alumni secure championship 
. CyberRays take title of first year league with a 4-2 penalty kick win 
Special to The Observer 
FOXBORO, Mass. 

Two former Notre Dame women's soccer players, goal­keeper LaKeysia Beene and defender Kelly Lindsey, ended 
th~\ir first season in profession­al soccer by lead-ing the Bay A r e a CyberRays to the 


c h a m P i -Beene onship of the first-year Women's United Soccer Association. 
The CyberRays and Atlanta Beat played to a 3-3 tie on Saturday at Foxboro (Mass.) Stadium, with Bay Area then claiming the title in the penal­ty-kick shootout (decided 4-2 after four kicksl. 
Beene. who was named tho WUSA's goalkeeper of the year on Friday night, made three saves in regulation and through 15 minutes of over­time. She then dove to her left to stop Atlanta's first penalty kick, a low shot by one of the world's top players. Sun Wen. Atlanta's Charmaine Hooper later sent hor attempt wide of the right post. 
Lindsev, who was named to the second team all-WUSA squad, had tho primary assist on tho game's first goal, after taking a rare shot from the left side of the box. Lindsey's shot was bound for the right side of the goal. with Brandi Chastain then flicking the ball with her head for the early 1-0 lead. 

Another former Notre Dame player was honored at the WUSA awards banquet on Friday night, as Boston Breakers defender Kate Sobrero was presented with the WUSA's Humanitarian Award, in recognition of her charitable work in the Boston area. 
Beene, Lindsey and Sobrero each are among 24 invitees io the upcoming U.S. national team camp. 
Saturday's game brought back memories of Notre Dame's 1999 NCAA quarterfi­nal at Nebraska, a 1-1 battle that extended to PKs after 150 minutes of action. Lindsey converted the decisive penalty kick (4-3) that day and Beene's save then sent the Irish onto the 1999 College Cup. 

The Cheerleading Program is looking for two freshman Notre Dame ladies to join our team. You would help cheerfor men's and women's soccer. Please pick up tryout forms at the reception desk on the second level ofthe Joyce Center at Gate 3. Bring completed forms with you to Gym 2 ofthe Joyce Center on Thursday, August 30, 2001 at 5:30 p.m. 
The Career Center 

IStNIOR "KICKOff"I 


Internet Recruiting, Intervie\.\Ting, Scheduling Hotlink 
• 
Activate and update yourGo IRISH Account 

• 
Find out about Jobs and Internships 

• 
Mark your calendar for workshops and programs 

• 
Target over 1,800 companies recruiting ND grads 

• 
Obtain dates for Career Fairs and Off campus Job Fairs 

• 
Learn about on-line Resume Books 


*Attend One ofthe following: 

Thursday, August30th -5:30, 6:30 or 7:30pm LaFortu.ne Student Center Ballroom 
*This meeting is required/or on-campus interviewing. 
Sponsored by: The Career Center, Flanner Hall Phone: (219) 631-5200 ~Vebsite: careercenter.nd.edu 
Attention: Notre Dame FRESHMAN LADIES 
Tryout: August 30, 2001 
5:30 p.m. -Joyce Center -Gym 2 Cheerleading Experience Necessary Gymnastics & Dance Experience 
page 25 


Soccer 
continued from page 28 
the field for the first time for the Irish. Sophomore Melissa Tancredi, who missed the entire 2000 season with due to injury, scored at the 33:27 point in the first half to give the Irish their 
first goal of Sophomore defender Jennifer Carter sup­p l i e d Tancredi the spark, hit­ting her with a pass down the center that the forward manuvered into the net. 
Reagan Jones, the season. 
Sophomore

"The freshman all 
Amanda Guertin

played well for their 
solidified her 

first time out. ,, credentials as a scorer for the Irish when she
Randy Waldrum 
put two in Notre women's soccer coach Dame's 3-1 win 
a freshman 

midfielder from Tampa, Fl., had the other score for the Irish when junior Ali Lovelace ran the ball down the left sideline and crossed it into Wisconsin­Milwaukee's box. Jones picked up control of tlie ball after Wisconsin-Milwaukee's defense failed to clear it out, and blast­ed it into the net to give the Irish an insurance goal and a 2­0 lead they would carry to the end of the game. 
Waldrum recognized the strong play of his first-year players. "The freshmen all played well for their first time out, and I tend to include Melissa Tancredi in that group because this is her first year of 
competition." 
against . Iowa. The forward 's pair of goals 

were both sparked by passes from forward Amy Warner, and freshman Erin Sheehan added the Irish's final goal in the 79th minute. 
Contact JeffBaltruzak at jbaltrul@nd.edu. 
FITNESS SCHEDULE 
1  12:15-12:45  
2  4:15-5:15  
3  5:30-6:45  
4  8:30-9:30pm  
5  12:15-12:45  
6  4:15-5:15  
7  5:30-6:30  
8  4:15-5:30  
9  5:40-6:00  

10 4:15-5:15 
1'1 5:25-6:1.0 
12 7;15-8:30am 
13 4:15-5:15 
14 5;25-6:10 
15 4:45-5:15 
16 5:30-6:30 
17 5:30-6:30 
18 12:15-12:45 
~ 
H.SRC .d.C:TlVTTY BQOl\,I' l 
Cardio Sculpt (ends 12/21.) M/W/F Step II M/W/F Po....,.er Step n'Pump M/W Cardio Box M/W Flex n'Tone (ends 12/20) T/Th Step II TrTh CardioBox T/Th Cardio Sculpt Su All Abs Su 
RSB,C ..-iCTIVITYB,QO.M 2 
CardioBox  MIW  
Lo Iinpact  M/W  
Step II n' Sculpt  T/Th  
Cardio Sculpt  T/Th  
Flexn'Tone  T/Th  
Arms n'Abs  Su  
ROCKNE B.QQM..aQI  
Cardio Box  MIW  
Step I  T/Th  

ROLFS AQUATIC CENTER 
Aquacise (ends 12/21) M/W/F 
19 7:00-8:00pin Aquacise TrTh INSTRUc:;TQR TRAINING 20 6:45-8:15pm Sept-5 -Nov. 7 W REGISTRATION 
FALL 2001 
$36 $38 $33 $26 $23 $26 $26 $14 $10 
$26, 
-,._
$26 $33 $26 $26. $10 
$26 $26 
$36 $26 
$25 

Begins Thursday, August 30, 7:30am in the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center_ Classes are open to all ND sh.I.dents,. staff, faculty, retirees and the.ir srou,.es. Registration takes place throughout the sem~ster. Schedule is subject to chance Minim.um of "14 class registrants. Classes begin the W'eek of Sept. 3 and unless noted, end the 'Week of Dee. 1.0. Please call 1-61.00 -with uestions. 
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, August 29, 2001 
MEN'S GOLF 
ND senior misses cut at U.S. Amateur 
+ Ratay shoots even par 72 and 79 in two rounds 
Special to The Observer 
ATLANTA Notre Dame senior golfer 

... 
Steve Ratay opened the U.S. Amateur in Atlanta, Ga., on Aug. 20 by firing an even-par 72 at the 
Druid Hills Golf Club, but fol­lowed it with a nine-over total of 79 on the par 70 East 

Lake Golf Ratay Club on Tuesday to finish with a 151 total and missed the cut at the 101st U.S. Amateur. 
The field of 310 was cut after 36 holes of stroke play to 64 and those golfers will begin match play on Aug. 22. The cut came at two-over par 144. 
Ratay qualified for the Amateur on July 30 at Notre Dame's Warren Golf Course with rounds of 69 and 72 for a 141 total. 
Ratay is the first Notre Dame golfer to make it to the 
U.S. Amateur since Jeff Connell who graduated in 2000. made it to the 1998 tournament. 
The Arlington IIeights, Ill.. native wjIJ return to Notre Dame for his final season with the Irish golf team. As a junior, he led the Irish with two first place finishes, tak­ing co-medalist honors at the Wisconsin Invitational and the Big East Championship in the spring. ~ 
Ratay's single season aver­age of 73.68 was the second best single season mark at Notre Dame, trailing only Joe Grace's 73.13 average set in 1955-56. His career average of 75.09 is the seventh best average in the history of the Notre Dame golf program. 
He was a third team Verizon Academic All­Ame;rican last season as he has, a 3.781 grade point aver­age in Computer Science and has been a Dean's List stu­dent in each of his first six semesters at Notre Dame. 
The U.S. Amateur is ·one of 13 national championships conducted annually by the United States Golf Association, 10 of which are strictly for amateurs. 
Notre Dallle voted nation's favorite tealll 
Special to The Observer 
An ESPN Sports poll lists Notre Dame as the most popular college football team in a recent poll of fans. 
The poll asked 3,748 college sports fans. aged 12 or older, from January through June to name their favorite college foot­ball team. 
Notre Dame and Florida State are the only two teams named in each region's top 10. 
In the overall national poll, Notre Dame finished first with 7.1 percent of the votes, followed by Florida State (5.4), Michigan (4.7), Penn State (4.3), Ohio State (3.8) and Nebraska (2.7). 
In the West, Notre Dame (7.7 percent) was second behind UCIA (9.9). 
In the Northeast, Notre Dame 
(12.5 percent) was second behind Penn State (21.4). 
In the North Central, Notre Dame (8.9 percent) was third behind Michigan (12.7) and Ohio State (10.5). 
Vero Italiano 
Catalino's Trattoria 
Downtown South Bend 

....................................... 
• 
•.. 
•
. /. 
•
.(:;:,./,. '-­
•
.. ,,, .-;\ '\ .. 
•
. • BIAIHlON 
•
: ~~~-~':.~9· 
•
•
: SATURDAY. SEPTEMBER I • • 10:30AM AT ST. JOE BEACH • 
• 
SMC names new assistant AD 
• Petcoff will coach swimming, oversee intramural sports 
By KATIE McVOY Associate Sports Edicor 
Life doesn't always turn out like we plan. 
Saint Mary's new assistant athletic director Gregg Petcoff can attest to that. Although moving from biostatistics to head swim coach and assis­tant athletic director seems like a strange road to travel, Petcoff is glad to have arrived. 
"I made the decision that I wanted to be a coach," he said. 
Petcoff, who joined the Saint Mary's staff in early May after Gretchen Hildebrandt left tho department to train as. a full­time triathlete, began his col­legiate coaching career 18 years ago at Emory University. 
The Emory swim program was struggling with a new head coach and a new facility. Petcoff, who was then pursu­ing his graduate degree in biostatistics and looking to do medical research, offered his assistance. 
"I walked in one day and offered to help and from that point onward I've been coach­ing," he said. 
After deciding to pursue coaching, Petcoff transferred to Southern Mississippi to attain a graduate degree there. While at Southern Mississippi, Petcoff helped ini­tiate the first women's swim­ming team at the college. 
Petcoff moved on to Iowa University and finally to Saint Ftancis University where he was the head swimming coach until arriving at Saint Mary's in May. 

"I was sure [Saint Mary's] is where I was going to feel at home," he said. 
With Petcoff in his new posi­tion, the Saint Mary's athletic department is looking to move both its swimming and diving program and its intramural program forward. 
"As with anyone, I'm look­ing for people who will take this program to the next level," said Lynn Kachmarik, Saint Mary's athletic director. "I really believe his experi­ence will take our swimming program to the next level." 
Petcoff is looking to improve the swim team both academ­ically and athletically. The team's sixth place finish in the MfAA last season is not enough for the new coach. A top three finish in the MIAA has made Petcoff's list of goals, as well as reaching the top 10 academic teams in Division III swimming. 
"I want an inward commit­ment to what I want to do," Petcoff said. 
In addition to improving the swimming and diving pro­gram, Kachmarik is looking to Petcoff to raise the level of seriousness at the Saint Mary's athletic department as a whole. 
"[Petcoff] will bring more professionalism to our student workers and to our facilities," Kachmarik said. "We're really looking to add a new level of professionalism to our build­ing." 
That new letel of profes­sionalism may begin with the new recruiting knowledge and energy Petcoff has already brought with him. While at the University of 
Iowa, Petcoff worked as the national recruiting coordina­tor for the men's team. 
"I think that the experiences I've had were instrumental in learning what's going to help coaches in recruiting," Petcoff said. 'Tm trying to open up [discussions] . about how everybody is recruiting." 
Kachmarik is also looking to Petcoff for new ideas. 
'Tm looking to [Petcoff] for initiative and adding to the energy this department alreadv has." she said. 
Petcoffs new ideas will not stop at the varsity level, how­ever. As assistant athletic director, one of Petcofrs main responsibilities will be the rapidly expanding intramural program. 
Participation in the program expanded from around 75 participants three years ago to nearly 300 participants last year. Petcoff would like to see that trend continue. 
"My goal for this year is to get up to 50 percent involve­ment of all women on cam­pus," he said. 
That 50 percent involve­ment would raise the number of participants to nearly 800, the largest number in Saint Mary's history. Petcoff is try­ing new ideas, such as insti­tuting intramural team hand­ball, as a method to move the program forward. 
"The intramural program is at a critical stage because we don't want to stay where we're at," Kachmarik said. "[Petcoff] has brought some new ideas for the intramural program." 
Petcoff, a Pittsburgh native, now resides in South Bend. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 


Welcon1e Back Students!!! 
Alumni-Senior Club Opening Week Activities 
Wednesday, August 29 As always, SENIOR NIGHT . ASC Cup Specials 
Thursday, August 30 Warm up for Heartland with KARAOKE, 9-Midnight 
Saturday, September 1 Abroad Student Reunion Night Get your groups back together and enjoy some foreign "food" 
$10 Lifetime Membership Special All Week!!! Check out www.nd.edu/~ASC for more info 
Wednesday, August 28, 2001 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
HEY, CIC YOU HEAR? 

PAAlETALS ARE NOW AT 
NINE AM. INSTEAD OF TEN 
Fox TROT 
bO YOU KNOW WHAT rHis MEANS} STUDENTS 
CAN MEET MEMBERS OF THE OPPOSITE sex BEFORE 
HEA()ING TO BREAKFAST! 
TOM KEELEY 
BILL AMEND 
RYAN

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNINGHAM 


-


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 Butt of jokes 61 Big name in perfumes
1 C 36 Welcome words for a buyer 62 NASA gasket
5 Desensitizes 37 Studio order 63 Name in a wilt
1O"The Alienist" 64 "The _ stayeth
author 40 They're taken in for no man":14 One-named chess Wil!iam Camden supermodel 41 Fairy 65 Income in15 Rameau work 
42 Improvise Monopoly16 Similar (to) 
44 Prefix with 66 Cellist's direction 17 Hitchcock center classic 
45 Bread line 
DOWN

18 Old Testament locale? collection 
1 Tabloid duch~ss 
48 "You're on!" 
2Sum

19 Doll's word 
51 Nozzle choice 
3 Forces for-Nard 20 Charades, e.g. 

53 DNA lab result 
4 Poet Lizette 23 Fjord 56 Olympic Woodworth 24 Cases for 

Stadium player 
5 Words of denial otologists 59 Sport in which 6"_the Roor28 UFO passengers 

competitors dig 

(Drifters hit) 29 Wood cutter in their heels 
1 7 Get together 1 32 Shining brightly 60 Location 
8 "Moon Over Parader" actress ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 Much of Chad B A 10 Almost made it 

-=+,-,+:-+-:~ 11 Rap sheet shorthand 12 Edge =t,.,...:+,+,"" 13 Genetic info -:-+--+,,­carrier  31 Places for petting 33 Port on the Strait of Malacca 34 Econ. figure  45 More creative, perhaps 46 Scare 47 Rescuee's declaration  52 Turkish bigwig 54 Copper 55 Duds 56 Summer Conn. clock setting  
21 Like California,  35 To be, at the  49 Ere  57 Hour on a clock  
to a Hawaiian 22 Attraction -,,,+,,.,....,,...,""' 25 Odium 26 Ezra Pound's ·­Hora"  Sorbonne 37 Pack it in 38 Pottery class projects 39 With it  50 Brought (to) 58 Bean holder Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420·5656 (95¢ per minute).  
B I T E SLAY  A D E BAO  -,-+---+--t 27 Application datum EW 30 Semi-colon?  40_-night doubleheader 43 Holy person?  Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888·7·ACROSS.  

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Michael Jackson, Rebecca De Mornay, Robin Leach, Elliott Gould, John McCain, Me'Shell NdegeOcello 
Happy Birthday: To reach your goals this year, plan to go it alone, People who are lazy or incompetent will cause delays and make you angry. It will take dedication to your cause and preparation to get ahead. You will be persuasive, charming and enticing so reach for the top. Your numbers: 1, 20, 25, 33, 38, 46 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
The value of your house will increase with some renovations. Colleagues may be deceptive regarding their intentions. Avoid being dragged into gossip or unsavory situations at work. 
000 TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
You're in a high creative cycle. Make an effort to finish off those projects that are dangling. Involvement with children will be enlightening. You can pick up new and worthwhile skills. 
00000 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Beautification to your home will please everyone you live with. Your creative vision makes redec­orating easy. Do a bit of searching to find some great secondhand 
buys.000 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your mate may not be as certain about the relationship. Play it smart and don't deliver unrea• sonable ultimatums. It's time to work on yoursel£ not your partner. 
00 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Con­centrate on your professional goals. You can dazzle your boss if you are willing to go that extra 
EUGENIA LAST 
step. Also, make changes at home. 
0000 VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
The more you focus on detail in your creative hobbies, the greater the rewards, Make changes to en­hance your appearance and im­prove your self-image. 00000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): 
You'll have difficulty getting along with others today. Don't be too hasty to make decisions that could affect the rest of your life. Focus on making money rather than arguing with peers. 00 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
There aren't enough hours in the day. The phone will ring off the hook, and plenty of responsibili­ties will be dropped in your lap. 
0000 
SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't hesitate. You will be able to close business deals with ease, and new clients will be putty in your hands. Make all the right moves by following your instincts, 00000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Self-deception will be your worst enemy. Don't let false pride get in the way of salvaging a cherished situation. Don't make any decisions until you have time to rethink matters. 00 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Discuss your situation with someone you respect and trust. Be fair when describing the cir­cumstances. Your friends' help will be based on what you tell them.000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your involvement in groups will be informative. Your creative approach to problems will put you in the limelight and also help you make positive contacts. 
0000 

NOTRE DA••········· Sports Weekend ~) ~)
" : ' ..-.-, ,. ' ...··,. ,......·•· ·,.·' ·•.•······ ...· ..,_ 

· Shamrock 'lnvitationa(

KevBank Classic-Women's Soccer 
Fri. #25 Hartford vs. #"10 UConn 5:00pm 
7:CXt:m
#4 NOTRE DAME vs. #8 Penn State 7:30 
SW Texas
First 200 students receive a -~ sub 
w..,m~-~ 

12:3(:pn 
Sun. #8 Penn State vs. #10 UConn 11 a 
7:0Q;m
#4 NOTRE DAME vs. #25 Hartford 1pm 
sandwich coupon for studen Men's Soccer vs. Villanova Sat. Sept. 1@ 7 p.m. 
11lf'1e',

First 250 fans receive a Soccer foam hand II 

O
THE

National Sports National Sports
BSERVER 

. Little League, p. 18 
. N. League, p. 16 
. Sammy Sosa, p. 18 . A. League, p. 20, 21 
. 
V. Williams, p. 23 . WUSA p. 25 

. 
NFL Referees, p. 25 . D. Rodman·, p. 34


PORTS 
Wednesday, August 29, 2001 
FOOTBALL 
Irish careful in heat 
-
. As temperatures rise, so does staff's caution to prevent heat-related injuries 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Associate Spam Editor 
After thunderstorms forced Notre Dame's football team to move their prac­tice indoors to the Loftus Sports Complex Aug. 22, the Irish training' staff kept a close eye on Darrell Campbell and several Irish football players who are particularly susceptible to hot weather conditions. 
It was a good thing they did. 
Inside the non-air conditioned facility, the humidity was so high that trainer Jim Russ calculated it at 94 percent. Coaches noticed haze by the ceiling. Although there were several large fans blowing, it wasn't enough to prevent Campbell from getting dizzy. 
"It was weird and disorienting," the 287-pound defensive tackle said. "I was basically trying to keep going. They were telling me to get out, but I just kept going because this is how I am." 
Finally, the training staff haq seen enough. They pulled Campbell and three others into the cooler temperatures and lower humidity levels outdoors and doused with them water from a cooler. At the time Campbell was pulled out of prac­tice, his temperature was measured at 
100.6 degrees. By the day's end, he had lost 11 pounds. 
Fortunately for Campbell, the training staff reacted quickly. They forced fluids, altered his helmet size to reduce 
see HEAT/page 24 


MEN'S SOCCER 
Irish find 
•
success in tourney 

By CHRIS FEDERICO Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's soccer 
team completed a successful pre­
season this weekend at the 
Indiana-Purdue-Fort Wayne 
Soccer Showcase. The Irish defeat­
ed the host-team IPFW Saturday 
5-0 and returned Sunday with a 3­
0 shutout of Michigan. 
The two games allowed the team 
a chance to see where the Irish 
stand against opponents, as well 
as where their problem areas lie 
before facing the regular season. 
"We did some good things this 
weekend," head coach Bobby 
Clark said, "but we also did some 
things that we need to work on. " 
The solid Notre Dame defense 
picked up where they left off in 
2000, recording a pair of shutouts 
in the two contests. 
"Coach Clark gave [the defense] 
a game plan, and we stuck to it 
really well," goalkeeper Greg Tait 
said. "We played very organized. 
Griffin [Howard] and Andreas 
[Forstner] did a great job, and the 
team played very well." 
The Irish defense allowed their 
opponents just eight shots on goal 
in the two games. 
Junior forward Erich Braun 
kicked off the scoring in the first 
match with an unassisted goal 10 
see EXHIBITION/page 22 

WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Freshman scoring leads Irish to 2 exhibition wins 
By JEFF BALTRUZAK 
Assistant Sports Editor 
With a pair of exhibition wins, the fourth­ranked Notre Dame women's soccer team opened their season impressively against Wisconsin­Milwaukee and Iowa this past week, defeating the two by a combined score of 5-1. 
The Irish's 2-0 season opening win against Wisconsin-Milwaukee on Tuesday had all the look and feel of a scrimmage, with head coach Randy Waldrum 
1 liberally substituting players, searching for cohesive units, Pruzinsky especially on the defensive end. "I like the fact that we 
have several options and combinations that we can try in the back, but we'd like to have that solidified by the time next week's tournament rolls around," Waldrum said in a statement. 
referring to the adidas/KeyBank Classic Aug. 31 through Sept. 2 at Alumni Field. 
Waldrum will rely on key defensive returnees include junior Vanessa Pruzinsky, senior Monica Gonzalez, and senior captain Lindsey Jones. Following the Wisconsin-Milwaukee game. Waldrum acknowledged some difficulties on defense, but said that those issues were more a result of the lrish's lack of practice time before that exhibition matchup. 
"We had several breakdowns defensively and were not as cohesive as you'd like to be, but that's to be expected considering how early it is,'' commented Waldrum following the game. 
Still, Notre Dame's domination of the scrim­mage was undeniable. The Irish had 25 shots to Wisconsin-Milwaukee's eight, and the Irish goal­keepers did their best imition of the Maytag repairman, only having to make a pair of saves in the entire contest. 
Notre Dame's offense againt Wlsconsin­Milwaukee was provided by two players taking 
see SOCCER/page 25 


. ND Women's Soccer vs. Penn State, Friday, 7:30 p.m. 
OBSERVER
. ND Men's Soccer vs. Michigan, Sunday, 2:30 p.m.
SPORTS 

online classifieds 
. ND Volleyball vs. SW Texas State, Friday, 7p.m.AT AGLANCE . SMC Volleyball vs. Bethel, Sept. 3, 7 p.m. http://www.nd.edu/ ~observer 





