7 
l
The final showing 
Up in arms 
Take a look al some ofthe best student art 

Monday
Columnist Anna Barbour begins a discussion on 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's has to offer in 
why gun control is a bad idea. 
the senior art projects. 
Viewpoint . page 9 
APRIL 9, 
Scene . page 10-11 
2001 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 119 HTTP: 



Mosier· leads Right to Life Conference discussion 
.By ERIN LaRUFFA 
News Writer 
Addressing a crowd of stu­dents from Notre Dame. Saint Mary's and other universities around the Midwest, Population Research Institute president Steve Mosier 
used his expe-See Also· 
riences in China as the "Last-minute backdrop for 
changes don't

his keyn_ote 
tarnish

address at the Right to Life conference's Confer-ence 
response"

on Saturday. 
The Chinese page3 government, Mosier explained, limits the number of children a couple can have to either one or two in order to control population growth in the country. 
"This is an extraordinary thing for a government to do ­to dictate how fast a population is to grow," said Mosier. 
In the Chinese province he studied in, Mosier saw local officials do a house to house survey to determine which women were pregnant. Officials then decided which women would be allowed to continue with their pregnancies based on a quota system, according to Mosier. 
Other women. however. were told they would have to have abortions. 
"Women were told ·that for the good of the country and the economy, they were going to have to sacrifice their chil­dren," said Mosier. 
While many women simply complied, 18 women in the vil­lage Mosier was in refused. Some of them were just days from delivery. 
Holdouts were arrested, and if they delivered while in prison, their babies were killed, Mosier said. 
Mosier explained that he eventually came to see what he describes as the "barbarity" of forced abortions and other Chinese population-control policies. 
"l wasn't a believer when I went to China. I thought China was overpopulated. I was wrong," he said. 
see MOSIER/ page 4 
Workshops focus on club 

involvement 

By ANDREW THAGARD 
News Writer 
As part of this year's more interactive pro-life conference, Notre Daine and Saint Mary's Right to Life groups hosted six small-group workshop sessions. "Our Duty to Serve, Our Call to Lead" featured sessions dealing with issues in club operations, law and general pro-life educa­tion run by members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's clubs, as well as prominent members of the pro-life community. 
Abortion and breast cancer 
Mishawaka attorney John Kindley led the workshop "Abortionists' failure to disclose the increased risk of breast can-
see WORKSHOP/ page 6 




Students protest Taco Bell 
By ERIN LaRUFFA News Writer 
With banners, flyers and even a bagpiper. about 30 stu­dents from the Notre Dame Student Farmworker Alliance protested Sunday afternoon at the Taco Bell on SR 23, across from University Park Mall. 
The students protested the chain restaurant because it purchases tomatoes from a Florida farmer whom students say exploits farmer workers. many of them migrants from Mexico. 
"We think that Taco Bell should pay a penny more for a pound of tomatoes so the workers can get higher wages," said protester Jane Bleeg. 
'Tm really excited about the turn out. I'm glad this many people turned out to support us," said sophomore Chris Rupar. 
Not everyone supported the protest, however. Taco Bell's manager called the South Bend Police Department, which responded with six police 
see PROTEST / page 4 


Government, public honor National Champs 
Associated Press 
The community hailed the champion Notre Dame women's basketball team Sunday at a public pep rally at the University's Joyce Center. 
The ceremony included remarks by athletic officials, Notre Dame administrators and senior mem­bers of the Senate. 
U.S. Sens. Evan Bayh and Richard Lugar on Friday intro­duced a bipartisan resolution in the Senate to honor the team's championship. 
The resolution by the Indiana senators passed by unanimous consent Friday afternoon. 
"This remarkable group of young women have taken their place in Notre Dame's long and 
storied tradi­


team. The "My first act as honorary tion of acade­presentation mic and ath­
mayor is to cut all the 
letic excel­of the Sears 

prices at the mall by 50 lence," Bayh
Cup and video tributes percent." said. "The 
featuring sea­determination son highlights and commit­
M uffet McGraw 
ment of both

were also part of the head women's basketball coach the Fighting 
event. 
Several local politicians were also on hand to recognize the team's victory over Purdue April 1 in the NCAA tournament 
Mishawaka Mayor Bob Beutter and South Bend Mayor Steve Luecke presented head coach Muffet McGraw with the keys to both cities. Beutter named the team members hon­orary Mishawaka citizens and appointed McGraw honorary mayor of the city. 
"My first act as honorary mayor is to cut all the prices at the mall by 50 percent," McGraw joked. 
The Sunday event followed word Friday that the team had been honored by the U.S. 
Irish and the 

Boilermakers exemplifies our Hoosier values and serves as a tremendous source of pride for the state of Indiana." 
"The women's basketball players of Notre Dame offer an example of dedication, skill and sportsmanship as they bring Notre Dame its first national basketball title," Lugar said. 
U.S. Rep Tim Roemer,D-South Bend, has sent a letter to President Bush requesting a special White House ceremony to honor the Notre Dame team. 
Noah Amstadter contributed to this report. 
l. 
\ 
Monday, April 9, 2001 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Following in her footsteps 
When I was little, I used to play dress-up. 

It was nothing out of the ordinary. Like most little girls, I'd sneak into my mother's dressing room, slip into her high heels and do a rather inad­equate job of smearing red lipstick all over my face. Thinking I'd done the job right Nand that lipstick was a warranted accessory for a young girl of six to wear to school NI'd bounce down the stairs, clad in my school uniform and a few "choice" accessories, think­ing I'd slide past my mother and onto bus No. 8 without notice. 
I must have been crazy. 

"Think again, young lady," my mother would yell at me, and l knew that was my cue to march right back up the stairs and put on something, well, more appropriate. 
For years I'd watch my mother get ready for work or a formal dinner, eloquently painting on that lipstick, using the glosses and mascara and powders I longed to try for my own. I watched her rise gently by wearing the high heels my tiny feet wouldn't fit into; l watched her take a beaded purse that glittered in the low light of evening in our family room. And as a little girl of six, a little girl of eight, and even and older girl of 10, I was immensely envious, watching my mother transform into this beauti­ful woman for a night on the town. 
But the appeal of dress-up was so much more than a simple playtime activity. There was a part to me that longed to grow up; a part of me that was tired of being six, tired of being eight, tired of being 10. Always ready to be older than I was, my mother's shoes would transport me to a time in the future when I'd get to be older, when I'd get to be smarter and when I'd get to be prettier. 
When I'd get to be like her. 

This past weekend, my mother traveled from Sandy Hook, Conn., taking a much-deserved day oIT from work to spend the weekend with me on campus. Visiting with several hundred other mothers for Saint Mary's Junior Mom's Weekend, as each pair of women walked through the doors to each event, it was not dif­ficult to figure out the pairs. In each of the daughters there was a part of the mother ­whether it was a smile, whether it was the way they walked, whether it was the way they talked in a crowd. 
For me, admitting that I'm a lot like my mother has never been something easy. Immovably stubborn and fiercely independent, ever since those days I marched down the stairs in high heels. determined to go to school in shoes 10 sizes too big, I have always been determined to be myself. But as I sat at dinner Saturday and looked down at my feet, now clad in properly-fitting high heels of my own, I real­ized that I was more like my mother than I'd ever imagined. It's in the way we tell stories, it's in the way we laugh at jokes. It's in the way we dress up for an evening out-and the way we enter a room. 
And I guess that's not so bad, following in her footsteps. If only the shoes weren't so big. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene 
Christine Kraly C. Spencer-Beggs Nicole Haddad Graphics Geoff Brodie Karie McKenna 
Sports Lab Tech Brian Kessler Kylie Carter Viewpoint Lori Lewal,ki 

The Obscrvrr (USrs 59? 2-4000) i, published Monday through Friday c:xct'pt during exam and vacation ~riods. The-Olm~rvcr is u memb('r of the A>socia1cd Prc;s. All rcproduc1ion riglm J.Ic re.served. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS  
Monday  Tuesday  Wednesday  Thursday  
. Lecture: "In Search of the  . Lecture: Miriam Cruz,  . Lecture: "Peacekeeping:  . Lecture: "Measuring  
Right Wage: ls it the  former deputy assistant for  Defming Success," Anthony  Migratory Flows from  
Minimum, Bargained, Fair,  Hispanic affairs for  Lake, professor, Georgetown  Mexico: Ten Years of the  
Market or Living Wage?"  President Carter, Little  University, former assistant  Research Experience of  
Teresa Ghilarducci,  Theatre, 4 p.m.  to the president for national  the Zapata-Canyon pro­ 
associate professor, Dept.  . Film: "Cosi," Montgomery  security affairs, Auditorium,  ject," Jorge Bustamanted.  
of Economics, Auditorium,  Theatre, LaFortune, 1 and 9  Hesburgh Center, 12:30  C-103, Hesburgh Center,  
Hesburgh Center, 7 p.m.  p.m.  p.m.  12:30 p.m.  

Compiled from U-Wire reports



OUTSIDE THE DOME 

Pickets surround U. Hawaii as faculty strikes 
HONOLULU said that the university should con­
University of Hawaii faculty crowd­
tinue to run as normal as possible. ed the main entrances of campus Many faculty members feel that Thursday in· an effort to prevent non­operating the university weakens the striking members of the university effect of the strike. community from entering the cam­The union is not estimating how pus. long the strike will last, only saying 
Ten picket lines were set up that the strike will go on until a fair around the Manoa campus, with settlement is reached. about 20 faculty on each line. Mari Yoshihara, an associate pro­
Alexander Malahoff, the University fessor in the American Studies of Hawaii Professional Assembly department remained optimistic that president, said the faculty split up a contract will be reached. the picketing into shifts. "We are hoping for the best, but 
Malahoff said there is a lot of soli­hopes people will not cross the pick­we are preparing for the worst," she darity within the faculty. et lines. said. 
Some faculty on the picket lines "The more that UH can operate, Yoshihara said that students and were encouraging students not to the longer the strike will last," she other university employees did cross enter the campus. said. · over the picket lines, despite the fac­
Taletha Demington from the The university administration has ulty's attempt to unite at the 
College of Education said the faculty 
UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS 

Judge issues restraining order 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. 
For at least the next 10 days, the University of Illinois won't be allowed to prohibit staff and students from contacting athlete recruits, as outlined in Chancellor Michael Aiken's controversial March 2 mass e-mail. Federal District Court Judge Michael Mihm ordered the University to follow the guidelines of a temporary restraining order on Thursday. The hearing was the result of an American Civil Liberties Union of Illinois' lawsuit against the University, which accused Aiken of limiting free speech when he sent all students, faculty and staff an e-mail prohibiting con­tact with potential athletic recruits. The .e-mail was sent after seven University faculty members said they wanted to contact recruits about the Chief Illiniwek debate. The temporary restraining order is the first step to ultimately prohibit the University from enforc­ing Aiken's directive. A judge will now decide whether to issue a temporary injunction, which is an extension of the restraining order. 
entrances. 
DUKE UNIVERSITY 
Economic slowdown hits universities 
DURHAM. N.C. 

As most of the nation braces for an economic slow­down, so do the development offices at several universi­ties across the nation. Today, about a dozen American research universities are engaged in capital campaigns seeking a billion dollars or more. At Duke University, administrators are beginning to wonder how the econo­my will affect the University's ongoing $2 billion cam­paign goal. At a regularly scheduled meeting Thursday, Campaign for Duke officials met to discuss, among other things, campaign strategy and the potential effects of an economic downturn. To hedge against the prospects of a slowdown, campaign officials will begin taking a more general approach to fundraising. The strategy of The Duke Campaign, which has reached about 73 percent of its goal, has long attempted to match specific donors to specific initiatives. Now, fundraisers will begin widening their nets and offering a larger pool of potential donors the opportunity to give to more varied University initia­tives. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day Saith Bmd Forac:as: 

The AccuWeathe~ forecast for noon, Monday, April 9. 
~ tcra:ast fa:: daytiite rorli.tims a!rl.hi,jl t:mp3:atllr:e; { 
...,.. ~....,,. 

0 2001 AccuW...lller. Inc. COLD WARM STATIONAHY 
Pralsl.111!! 

®(9 ...... 
High Low ShoW•r• A11n t-11orm. Aurt•• &n0w iee Sunny Pt. CloUdy CJoUdy 

VMM~t9dPre• 

Atlanta 85 64 Las Vegas 85 71 Portland 54 43 Balttmore 78 58 Memphis 65 67 Sacramento 61 48 Boston 59 40 Milwaukee 53 47 St. Louis 71 58
q_4J,~q Q Q ~ ~ u 
Chicago 69 40 New York 72 54 Tampa 78 54
Showers T-storms Rain Flu,;ias i;';,.;;_ lea Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 

Houston 85 71 Philadelphia 79 57 Washington DC 75 54 
y,. ArJ~lll~d Pn,u Gr111JhicaN6t 

Monday, April 9, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Students pitch in to clean up river 
By JARED JODREY 
News Wrirer 
More than 40 Notre Dame students, primarily from the Students for Environmental Action (SEA) and Women's Rowing Team, worked among more than 100 local volun­teers in cleaning up the banks 
of  the  St.  Joseph  River,  
Saturday.  
"Basically, this was  a  huge  

success," said Monica Burtcheall of SEA. "And we are very happy about it. We got a good turnout for so early in the morning, and the spirits stayed high throughout the day -it was pretty sweet." 
Working for most of the day between Logan Street Bridge and Ironwood, the clean-up project was. for many, an enjoyable and eye-opening experience. Sponsored by the Friends of the St. Joe River Association, the clean-up has become an annual event for Notre Dame students and one which participants are confi­dent will continue in years to come. 
In past years, volunteers have encountered numerous surprises during the clean up, including discovering reclin­ers. bedsprings, an air-condi­tioner, baby car seat, TV sets and a kitchen sink. This year, Notre Dame students encoun­tered, among the overflow of general litter, a pipe, a carpet and a leather jacket. In all, roughly two entire dumpsters of trash were recovered from the banks. 
The event served as one of the SEA's primary focuses, in addition to the upcoming Earth Day celebration, as the school year comes to a close. A similar clean-up expedition is in the works for the stu­dents' arrival in the fall. 

MOM'S TURN TO RELAX 

Last-minute changes don't tarnish conference's response 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
NewsWrirer 
Although two of the three keynote speakers cancelled and attendance was lower than expected, attendees of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Right to Life clubs sec­ond annual pro-life conference expressed overall satisfaction. 
Twenty minutes into the start of the conference Mario Suarez, co-president of ND Right to Life, announced that Cathy Cleaver's lecture on "How to Communicate the Pro-life Message" would not take place. He reported that Cleaver's flight from Detroit to South Bend had been can­celled earlier that afternoon. Alan Keyes, another of the conference's keynote speak­ers, cancelled his appearance last Friday due to a schedule conflict. 
Suarez and Kaitlyn Dudley. co-president and conference coordinator were quick to recover however. 
"This conference is basically on your shoulders," Suarez told the crowd. "If it's good it's your fault; if it's bad it's not our fault." 
"We would have loved to have [Cathy Cleaver] come but I think it worked out much better than we thought," Dudley said after the confer­ence. "It's not like there's only one best way to do things. We found out there's a different ­but also good way -of doing things." 
This year's conference was designed to he more "hands on" than the first one. The seven scheduled keynote 
THE REv. THEODORE M. HESBURGH C.S.C. LECTURES ON ETHICS AND PUBLIC POLICY 

Anthony Lake. 
Distinguished Professor in the Practice of Diplomacy, Georgetown University; former Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs 

Balances of Power, Imbalances of Weakness: Globalization and U.S. Foreign Policy 
Tuesday, April 10, 4;15 p.m. 
Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
Peacekeeping: Defining Success Wednesday, April 1I, 12:30 p.m. Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
The Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies 

speakers featured last year life organization on her cam­were replaced with three pus but she also expressed a along with interactive work­desire to discuss the death shops, moderated discussions, penalty, an issue not covered and feedback sessions. in this year's conference. 
"I expected more sentiments Students showed enthusiasm of disappointment from people at the opportunities to net­about the two [cancelled] work with other pro-life clubs keynote speak-that the con­ers but it real­ference
"That's one ofthe
ly hasn't hap­offered. pened," reasons why pro-lifers "It's very 
Dudley said. suffer such a high burn­easy to get dis­
"People want­couraged in
out rate. It seems like
ed to come the pro-life 
meet people you 're the only one who movement," and it didn't ,, said Radu
cares. 
matter who Mattei from was speaking. Villanova 
Radu Mattei
They've said University with that the work­Villanova University student American 
shops were really good." 
"Our group at St. Bonaventure is very small so I wanted to learn how to make more people more involved," said Julia Smuda. "We went to the Sean Regan workshop and he talked about how to keep people motivated in your group by setting short term goals and giving them differ­ent things to do. It was very educational." 
"I thought that the speakers were very good. They were informative," echoed Nicole Muller, a freshman at St. Bonaventure University. 
Other students who were not active in pro-life clubs at their schools attended the conference looking for motiva­tion. 
"My family's always been pro-life but I haven't been involved in the movement since I was 6," Theresa Wallman of Goshen College said. "This was an opportunity to find out more information on exactly what it was about." 
Wallman left the conference interested in starting a pro-
Collegians for 

Life. "That's one of the reasons why pro-lif­ers suffer such a high burn­out rate. It seems like you're the only one who cares." 
"I wanted to he able to dis­cuss with other students from other schools what the culture of life is and the dynamics of getting that message out," said Michael Kleissler of Franciscan University of Steubenville, Ohio. "Even if you don't feel that you've learned a lot you create an important sense of solidarity." 
ND and SMC Right to Life Clubs intend to start planning for next year's conference ear­lier. They anticipate keeping this year's interactive format in place hut focusing their resources on only one keynote speaker for next year. They are looking to recruit Mel Gibson or Ben Stein. 
"Next year will be the third annual conference," Suarez said. "We've learned a lot in figuring out what the need for this conference is and next year we'll have a much better idea on how to do that." 
Help keep the Earth clean. Recycle this newspaper. 

Monday, April 9, 200 l

page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Protest 
continued from page 1 
cruisers. 
''They were trying to tell me we couldn't be here because we're too noisy," said senior Julie Hodek. "It's pretty clear where their interests are. They're with the local busi­nesses." 
After speaking to Hodek. the police allowed the protest to continue and left the location. 
Despite the complaints of Taco Bell management and local authorities. Bleeg felt the public's overall receplion to the protest was "positive." 
In addition to protesting, Bleeg, Hupar and Hodek were three of 16 Notre Dame stu­dents and professors who spent spring break on the Center for Social Concern's (CSC's) Migrant Experiences Seminar. 
Seminar participants spent a week in lmmokalee. Fla .. examining the conditions endured by migrant farmer workers. They lived with migrant families and spent some time picking oranges along with the laborers who do so for a living. 
Participating in the seminar taught students about the hardships endured by these workers. many of whom are Jiving undocumented in America. The U.S. Department of Labor reports indicate that the median annual income of these workers is $7,500, with no health care or other bene­fits, no overtime pay and no right to collectively bargain with their employers. 
"Taco Bell's enormous global revenues are based on cheap ingredients for the food they sell, including cheap tomatoes picked by farm workers in Florida who are paid sub­poverty wages," said Joanna Garcia, a junior who also par­
ticlpated in the seminar and 
protest. 
So the Notre Dame students 
decided to join protests of Taco 
Bell. 
Students gathered on the sidewalk in front of the restau­rant, holding signs and chanti­ng slogans such as, "No quiero Taco Bell." The group also played music and handed fly­ers out to people stopping at the nearby traffic light. 
"The whole purpose behind this is to educate. We think it's a basic enough issue that ii' you're aware of it, you'll sup­port us," Hupar said. 
"[We're protesting) to help people realize there's a con­nection between the food they cat and the companies they buy it from and their workers," said senior Brian Wolford, who participated in the Migrant Experiences Seminar when he was a sophomore. Because of that experience. as well as his work in a Texas shelter for undocumented workers, Wolford decided to join the protest against Taco Bell. 
Many students who have never participated in a Migrant Experiences Seminar also joined Sunday's protest. 
One such student was junior Krista Schoening, who joined the protest because she sympa­thizes with the farm workers' cause. 
"Basically. I'm here because people are being exploited," she said. "There's a very unusual situation in the United States today that we have a lot of prejudice against people who are immigrants from Mexico." 
She pointed out the fact that many Americans want INS to tighten up the border with Mexico, while at the same time Americans benefit from the Mexican workers that do make it into the U.S. 
"We exploit these migrants. We pay these people almost nothing, and we get much more out of it than they do," Schoening said. 

INTERESTED IN SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, AND ETHICAL QUESTIONS? 
Ethical issues involving technology assessment, bioethics, human genetics, environmental management, computer technology, engineering, and architectural design constantly raise new and difficult dilemmas for society. 

To explore these issues in depth, investigate the unique Notre Dame Science, Technology, and Values Program (STY). This ls an academic Minor requiring 15 credit hours that may be taken in conjunction with any major. Within the STV Program, you may develop specific emphases on STV issues in relation to Business; Environmental Studies; Biomedical Ethics; Philosophy and Theology; Histor, and Philosophy of Science; and Government and Public Policy. 
Adescription of course offerings for FALL 2001 may be obtained at 346 O'Shaughnessy, or you can visit our website at http://www.nd.edu/-stv. Call 631-5015 for apersonal appointment. 
Got news? Call 1-5323. 
Mosier 
continued from page 1 

Witnessing abortions first­hand was a major part of his conversion. 
"You can't witness an abor­tion without becoming pro-life. You can't see the broken body of the baby and the wounded body of the mother without realizing life is sacred," Mosier said. "I was convinced that human life should be protect­ed from conception through death." 
Upon returning to the U.S., Mosier began writing books 
about Chinese practices. The Chinese govern­ment in Beijing declared him an international spy. 
''I'm still on the blacklist today," he said. 
While Mosier 
is a harsh critic of the commu­nist Chinese gov­ernment, he also said that the concept popula­tion control is not a Chinese 
one. 

"You can't witness an abortion without becoming pro-life. You can't see the broken body ofthe baby and the wounded body of the mother without realizing life is sacred." 
Steve Mosler 
president; Population 
Research Institute 
"China didn't invent the idea of population control. That idea was invented in the West," he said. 
Teams of researchers from the U.S. government, the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank went to China years ago, he explained, and gave the idea to the Chinese government. 
"They told them ... 'you have to control your population growth,"' so that the country's population did not eat up any economic gains China made, Mosier said. 
However, according to Mosier, China's economy was 
not expanding because of communism, not because of too many people. 
"What held China back was [its] government," he said. "It was the Communist Party and not the Chinese people that had held people back." 
Over the last 20 years. according to Mosier, there has been "remarkable economic growth" in China, while Lhe population has grown at a forced 1 percent. 
"What difference does it make if the population is growing at 2 percent or 1 per­cent ... if the economy is grow­ing at 10 percent'?" Mosier asked. 
The policy not only has no 
real benefit, Mosier said, it also devalues human life in the 
minds  of  
s  o  m  e  
Chinese.  

"If you can kill them when they're being born ... what's so bad about killing them w h e n they're 1 or 

2 or 9 or 10'?'' he asked. 
Mosier also said he dis­agrees with predictions that humans will face running out of food and other problems if Earth's population grows too large. 
"It's demographic non­sense," he said. "Humanity is better off today at 6 billion people than at anytime in human history ... As our num­bers have grown, so has our wealth." 
Based on current world food production, it is possible to feed 12 million people, Mosier said. Admitting that there are "local food shortages" in the world today, he claimed that 

The perfect home: That's been your dream. Now, wilh annual percentage rates as low as they are, you can live your dream. No!re Dame Federal Credit Union can help. We'll design afixed or adjustable-rate mortgage around your specific needs, Plus, you can finance up to 100% of your home. And, we'll do it for you quickly, with no hassles. We even offer first mortgages nationwide! Still dreaming of your perlect home? Notre Dame Federal Credit Union will help make ii areality. 
those "artificial famines" are 
the result of political and other 
conflicts. 
As a father of nine children, 

Mosier also criticized propo­
nents of population control, 
even those who support meth­
ods other than abortion and 
infanticide, as being hypocriti­
cal in regards to what popula­
tions they want to control. 
"It's not their own reproduc­tion they're concerned with. It's the reproduction of others that don't look or think like them," he said. 
According to Mosier, many sterilization plans around the world are directed against the poor or a certain minority group. 
"Human rights abuses abound with these programs," Mosier said. 
In addition, Mosier said that population control efforts take doctors and other scarce resources away from primary health care. He pointed to the African AIDS epidemic as an illustration of this point. 
Despite what Mosier sees as problems with population con­trol, the U.S. government and private American donors cur­rently fund population control programs in foreign countries, Mosier said. He added that he hopes to make progress in the next few years to transfer these funds into primary health care areas, thus "end­ing out government's immoral support for population con­trol." 
"Right now we have a presi­dent who is pro-life," Mosier said. "We're hopeful that this year we can take money out of population control spending." 
Mosier's anti-population control beliefs are rooted in his Christian faith. 
"The Christian view has always been that babies are blessings, not burdens," Mosier said. "I've come to see children as the instruments God uses to teach us the virtues." 
~ 
NOTRE DAME 
fEDERAt CREDIT U~ION 

Indiana and Michigan 219/239-6611 •800/522-6611 Outside Indiana and Michigan 800/400-4540 You can also stop by your nearest branch or visit our web site at www.nd[cu,org. 
ll!N~ 
~ LENDER 
lndependenl of !he Universi~ 


ATION 
Monday April 9, 200 I COMP[LED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Vatican celebrates Palm Sunday: 
Pope John Paul II celebrated Palm Sunday Mass in St. Peter's Square before tens of thousands of faithful, urging young people to renew their commitment to Christ. Many waved palm fronds, olive branches and pussy willows as John Paul was driven to the canopied altar atop the steps of St. Peter's Basilica. The Mass. attended by a crowd that swelled to at least 50,000 people, marked the start of a week of commemorations leading up to Easter, when Christians celebrate the resurrection of Christ. 
Helicopter crashes in Vietnam: 
Rescuers on Sunday recovered the bodies of nine Vietnamese and seven Americans who died in a helicopter crash while searching for the remains of U.S. soldiers missing in action from the Vietnam War. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Massachusetts governor to resign: 
An expectant mother will become Massachusetts' first woman governor this week and the state's second lieutenant governor in a row to take the helm in midterm. Jane Swift, 35, who is expecting twins in June, will take over Tuesday after Gov. Paul Cellucci resigns to become U.S. ambassador to Canada. Cellucci, then a lieutenant governor himself, took charge in 1997 when Gov. William Weld resigned to pursue an unsuccessful nomination as ambas­sador to Mexico. 
Former Congressman dies: Former Illinois Congressman Frank Annunzio, who represented Chicago in Washington for 28 years, died Sunday. He was 86. Annunzio, who had Parkinson's disease, slipped into a coma about a week ago, a family spokesman said. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
ISU prepares for execution: The hun­dreds of reporters and broadcasters expected to cover Timothy McVeigh's execution have booked up most local hotels, prompting Indiana State University to open its dorms to the media. Journalists from CNN and The Indianapolis Star alone will fill nearly three floors, 48 rooms in all, at ISU's Hines Hall for $40 per night. Media representatives are expected to arrive May 13 or 14 -about a week after students vacate the rooms, said Mary Ellen Linn, director of ISU's Residential Life. 
Market watch April 6 

Dow 9 , 791 . 0 9 -12 6 . 9 6 
Jf1 s;1r -ijc~~ 
AMEX:  859.56  -5.15  
NASDAQ:  1,720.36  -64.64  
NYSE:  583.03  -9.52  
S&P 500:  1,128.43  -23.01  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -8.82 -1.31 13.62 NASDAQ 100 INDX (QQQ) -2.71 -1.01 36.30 INTEL CORP (INTC) -7.82 -2.00 23.62 MOTOROLA INC (MOT) -23.08 -3.45 11.50 MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) -0.99 -0.56 56.19 
GAZA STRIP 


Associated Press 
BEIT IAHIYA 
The Israeli army bom­barded Palestinian targets in the northern Gaza Strip on Sunday night, plunging a town into darkness and injuring four people including a 10 year-old boy. 
The four victims suffered moderate shrapnel wounds, a Palestinian hos­pital official said. 
The Palestinian police said the Israelis fired three surface-to-surface rockets at the town of Beit-Lahiya, north of Gaza City. The Israelis have not used rockets of this kind before in the past sixth months of conflict with the Palestin­ians. 

The Israeli army spokes­man declined to say what weapons were used. However, an Israeli official confirmed that the attack was not carried out by helicopters armed with wire-guided antitank mis­siles, like other recent attacks in the Gaza Strip. 
In Sunday's attack the projectiles hit an aban­doned police station, a headquarters of Yasser Arafat's Fatah group and a civilian home. Beit-Lahiya was plunged into darkness as the power supply was knocked out. 
The ceiling of the house collapsed, injuring a 60 year-old woman and a 10 year-old boy. 
The boy's father, Hamis Abu-Sultan, 42, showed reporters a bloodstained child's blanket. "What has this child done to the Israelis?" he said. 
The army spokesman said the attack was in response to the firing of mortar bombs by the Palestinians at Nahal Oz, an Israeli communal settle­ment outside the Gaza Strip. The fighting in the Gaza Strip has been inten­sifying with almost nightly exchanges of and rocket and mortar fire. 

Earlier on Sunday, Pales­tinian gunmen killed a sus­pected collaborator with Israel in the West Bank. 
The alleged informer, Mamoun Freij, 37, was sit­ting in his shop in the West Bank town of Tulkarem when three masked men entered, witnesses said. Freij was hit by 14 bullets, doctors at Tulkarem hospi­tal said. 
Asfah 77, a group believed to have ties to Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat's Fatah movement, claimed responsibility. 
'The killing of this spy is a message to all the spies that we will punish them," the group said in a leaflet. 
PLA may be prolonging stalemate 
Chinese military to claim greater rel­might be released. 
Associated Press 

evance in Chinese politics," said Yu The crew is being held on Hainan BEIJING Maochun, a China expert at the U.S. island in the South China Sea, where A crippled American spy plane Naval Academy. "It's like a crouching they made an emergency landing that landed at one of their airfields tiger." after the collision April 1. U.S. offi­was a gift from the sky for China's The intense secrecy shrouding cials say the crew managed to generals. Chinese politics has made it hard to destroy at least some of the plane's 
It isn't clear how much informa­know precisely what's going on dur­supersensitive equipment, although it tion they've extracted from the U.S. ing the crisis. But analysts suggest isn't clear how much. Navy EP-3E. But the crisis over its in­that the already influential People's "The principal organization in flight collision with a Chinese fighter Liberation Army, or PLA, may be charge of this whole affair has been has given them a new way to press partly responsible for the continued the PIA, at least in the early stages," Washington for an end to spy flights confinement of the U.S. crew. said Bates Gill, director of the Center and to pry more money out of their The 21 men and three women for Northeast Asian Policy Studies at own civilian leaders. began their second week in captivity the Brookings Institution in 
"This is a God-given chance for the Sunday, with no indication when they Washington. 
page 6 Monday, April 9, 2001
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Workshop 
continued from page I 
cer to patienls." 
According to Kindley. estrogen levels increase rapidly dilling the first few months of pregnancy, causing the breasts to develop cells particularly known to mutate. While cells more resistant to mutation develop in women who carry babies to full term, those who have abortions face increasing risk of breast cancer. 
Miscarriages do not appear to pose the same risks as abortions due to the lower estrogen level usually present at the time of mis­carriage, according to Kindley_ 
"It is an undisputed fact that a full term pregnancy decreases the risk ofbreast cancer [compared to an abortion] at a young age," Kindley said. "Everything I've described about the biology of this debate is undisputed by the other side." 
According to Kindley's Web site. 27 out of 33 international studies conducted suggest a relationship between increased risk to breast cancer and induced abortion. A 1994 study published by the National Cancer Institute found that induced abortion increases the risk of breast cancer by 50 percent and lhat risk is doubled for those younger than 18 or older than 30. 
"There is no possibility that these results are due to chance," Kindley said. 
"There's a real need that the college community be informed. This needs to be shouted from the rooftop," he continued. ''This is life or death information that is being actively withheld from people." 
The attorney maintained that members of the pro-choice move­
ment dismiss these results on the 
''recall bias hypothesis." 
"This hypothesis claims that women who have breast cancer are likely to be more honest about abortion than healthy women who have had abortions," Kindley said. "For this hypothesis to work, they would have to lie in significantly greater numbers. There is really no credible evidence of this what­soever." 
Kindley and other pro-life attor­neys have filed law suites against abortion clinics which display false literature, but he is also con­cerned about facts presented by government organizations like the National Cancer Institute. 
"Sadly, i.he governmerrt agency responsible for educating the pub­lic has been misleading them about the is.c;ue and it provides a cover for the abortion industry," Kindley said. "The NCI is a gov­ernment agency whose head is appointed by the president and these agencies are amenable to political bias." 
The attorney encouraged con­ference attendees to communicate their opinions with politicians and to focus on the women who face the risk of breast cancer. 
"I think the pro-life movement might be better served ifwe focus on the women. It doesn't contra­dict the movement. [This issue] is, in many ways, separate from the pro-life debate," Kindley said. "I want to sec justice done." 
Activists' Rights 
Michael Kenney, dean of the Ave Maria School of Law, ran the workshop "First amendment rights, legislative and legal process." The attorney discussed the evolution of free speech rights, pro-life legal techniques and Roe 
v. Wade, the controversial Supreme Court case that effective­ly legalized abortion. 

According to Kenney. broad free 
speech rights for activists evolved 
on college and university campus­
es. 

"The first amendment and free­
dom of expression on campus 
grows out of [ 1%O's] protests,'' he 
said. 

Kenney challenged those pre­sent to use their free speech rights to share the pro-life message with others and dispel society's accep­tance of abortion. 
"You are a generation born into the construct that it's a woman's right to abort a child," he said. "I was a freshman in high school when the decision came around. As a parent ... it is incredibly shocking and tragic." 
According to Kenney, the legal basis of the pro-life movement has been to establish the unborn fetus as a person with rights. 
"From a legal standpoint the answer is to take a look at how the unborn can be [considered] a person," he said. 
The attorney, however, observed how the issue has drifted away from establishing a child's rights to women's liberty. 
"It's really gone down a grue­some path," he said. "Ultimately [women and abortion providers] are victims as well." 
Kenney compared the fight African Americans faced with obtaining citizenship rights after the Civil War to the con­flict before those in the pro­life movement today. 
"Something similar need to happen to ensure that [the unborn] obtain 'person-hood' status," he said. 
Kenney challenged pro-life clubs to fight for life but emphasized using the proper legal outlets. 
"Express yourself with rea­son and compassion toward all those involved," he said. 
Human rights center sponsors conference 
SpeciaJ to The 01>,erver 

Notre Dame's Center for Civil and Human Rights is a principal sponsor of an international conference today through Wednesday in Santiago, Chile. 
The conference, entitled ''Truth Commissions and New Challenges in the Promotion of Human Rights," marks the 10th anniversary of the publica­tion of Chile's Truth and Reconciliation Commission report. Other conference sponsors include the Corporation for Democracy and Justice. Chile's foreign ministry office, the British government and the United Nations Development Program. 
The Truth and Reconciliation Commission was established in April 1990 by President Patricio Aylwin shortly after his inauguration as Chile's tirst democratically elected presi­dent following 17 years of General Augusto Pinochet's U.S.-sponsored military dic­tatorship. Notre Dame's Center for Civil and Human Rights sponsored an English translation of the report by Phillip E. Berryman, a Latin American specialist. and the University of Notre Dame Press published the English version in 1993. 
The translation included 
an introduction by Jose Zalaquette, one of' the com­mission members, who will join Juan Mendez, director of the Center for Civil and Human Rights, and former Chilean presidents Aylwin, Felipe Gonzalez and Raul Alfonsfn as speakers at the conference_ 
The lawyers, scholars, journalists and human rights activists meeting in Santiago will discuss the work of more than 20 similar com­missions which have been established in other troubled nations worldwide, including Argentina. El Salvador. Guatemala, and South Africa. They also will exam­ine specific effects of' such commissions on h urn an rights and democracy in their respective countries, new developments in international human rights law, and proposals for new strategies to educate people on human rights in light of commission findings. 
The conference partici­pants will include Ronalth Ochaeta, Guatemalan ambassador to the Organization of American States. who received a mas­ter of law's degree from Notre Dame in 1994 and, while serving as director of the Office of Human Bights for the Archdiocese of Guatemala, wrote a report on the atrocities committed during Guatemala's bitter civil war. 
The Keo~gh lri_stit-u..te for Irish St-u_dies 
Fall 2001 

IRST 101:01  Beginning Irish I  MWF 9:35-10:25  Peter McQuillan  
IRST 101:02  Beginning Irish I  MWF 10:40-11 :30  
IRST 102:01  Beginning Irish II  MWF 11:4512:35  
IRST 103:01  Intermediate Irish  MWF 10:40-11:30  Peter McQuillan  
IRST 235:01  The Irish American Experience  MW 11:45-12:35  Jay Dolan  
IRST 326B:01  Irish History I  MWF 9:35-..10:25  James Smyth  
IRST 372B:0l  Writing in Northern Ireland  TH 11:00-12:15  Mary Burgess Smyth  
IRST 379:01  Irish Writing, 1600-2000  TH 2:00-3:15  Kirsten Sundell  
IRST 380:01  Imprisonment in Irish Literature  TH 12:30-1:45  Sean O'Brien  
IRST 381;01  Nineteenth Century Ireland  TH 12:30-1:45  Breandan Mac Suibhne  
IRST455:0l  Irish & British Lit. 1790-1815  TH 5:00-6:15  Sea.ITius Deane  
IRST 470:01  Anglo-Irish Identities 1600-1800  TH 2:00-3:15  Christopher Fox  
CLIR 501:01  Graduate Beginning Irish I  MWF 9:35-10:25  Peter McQuillan  
CLIR 501:02  Graduate Beginning Irish I  MWF l0A0-11 :30  
CLIR 502:01  Graduate Beginning Irish II  MWF 11:45-12:35  
CLIR 503;01  Graduate Intermediate Irish  M"WF 10;40-11 :30  Peter McQuillan  

For Information about the IRISH STUDIES PROGRAM please contact Susan Harris (631-5088) 712 Flanner Hall http://vvww.nd.edu/-irishstu/ 

Monday, April 9, 2001 The Observer . NEWS page 7 

College 
opens new 
peace center 
By AMY GREENE 
News Writer 
The Peace and Action Resource Center opens today in Haggar College Center at Saint Mary's. 
The office is opening to commemo­rate the anniversary of Saint Mary's joining the Workers' Rights Consortium. 
Members of the WRC Anti-Sweatshop Task Force and Peacemakers opened the office to help educate the public about sweatshop issues, according to senior Peacemaker. Maureen Capillo. 
"The office will be used primarily as a resource center for faculty and stu­dents. There will be videos, syllabi, files, and websites that professors could use for things directly related to labor issues," said Capillo. 
Capillo and other members of the WBC Anti-Sweatshop Task Force and Peacemakers serve as an advisement committee to President Eldred, making her aware of where and under what conditions Saint Mary's apparel and other manufactured goods at the col­lege are being produced. 
The Task Force is excited that the new office is finally up and running. 
"This is a big milestone we are finally getting a space. We're excited there is a specific resource center that will address and focus on labor issues," Capilla said. 
The new office is located in 303 Haggar and is opened to all those interested in becoming educated about anti-sweatshop and labor issues. 
PERU 

Toledo w-ins seat in Peru presidency 
Associated Press 
LIMA 
Alejandro Toledo, a U.S.-trained econo­mist with Indian roots, finished first in Peru's presidential election Sunday but fell short of a majority and will face a runoff, according to preliminary results. 
He will likely face former President Alan Garcia, a left-leaning populist, in a second round in late May or early June, the pre­liminary results showed. Eight candidates were vying to become the 

successor to disgraced "Today, Peru was the "I don't say I haven't former President Alberto 
made mistakes. Certainly
winner. We have
Fujimori. 

l have, but I accept them 
Toledo, 55, finished obtained a great and have corrected second to Fujimori in victory." them," Garcia said after 
elections last year but 

the exit polls were ended up boycotting a 
released, explaining why fraudulent runoff against Alejandro Toledo 
Peruvians should not 
the autocratic leader, 

Peru President-elect fear his return to power. 
who fled Peru in November amid mount­ing corruption scandals. 
Early official returns representing 11.73 percent of districts gave Toledo 36.38 per­cent Sunday, compared to 25.7 percent for Garcia and 24.01 percent for Flores, said Fernando Tuesta, who is in charge of overseeing the vote. 
Transparencia, a widely respected inde­pendent election watchdog group, had similar forecast based on a sample of bal­lot tallies. 
Toledo faced his strongest challenge from Garcia, a discredited ex-president returned from exile, and Lourdes Flores, a conservative former congresswoman. 
"Today, Peru was the winner. We have obtained a great victory," Toledo told hundreds of supporters at a downtown Lima hotel. "We have won in votes and in democracy, even if we did not achieve the 51 percent." 

Garcia, 51, a tall, silver-tongued pop­ulist, led Peru's government from 1985 to 1990. His administration left the country mired in hyperinflation and surging guer­rilla violence. 
Forced into exile two years after Fujimori was elected in 1990, Garcia returned in January when corruption charges against him expired. His phoenix­like resurrection is a tribute to his oratori­cal skills and, according to his foes, to the amazingly short memories of his country­
men. 
Painting himself as 
elder statesman who has matured and put behind his youthful left­ist ideas, Garcia said earlier that regard­less of who wins the runoff he was "con­vinced that things are going to improve because we are leaving behind a dictator­ship." 
Flores, 41, is a member of Uma's white elite with a reputation for honesty. She had been in second place in opinion polls going into Sunday's election. but her cam­paign had begun to fade in recent days after her father made a racial slur against Toledo. 
Flores questioned Garcia's predicted second-place finish, saying absentee bal­lots from abroad could swing the vote in her favor. 
The election was Peru's first since the ouster of Fujimori, Peru's iron-fisted ruler for more than a decade. 
A year ago, Fujimori trampled constitu­tional restrictions and won a third straight five-vear term in elections marred by fraud and dirty tricks. But he fled in November amid corruption scandals involving Vladimiro Montesinos, his intel­ligence chief, and he now lives in self­imposed exile in Japan. his ancestral homeland. 
In a televised speech to the nation Saturday night, interim President Valentin Paniagua assured Peruvians that this year's special elections would be clean and fair. 
Toledo, who has a doctorate from Stanford University and has been a visit­ing scholar at Harvard, is a "cholo," the Peruvian term for a person of mixed Indian and white blood. He has capital­ized on his rise from shoeshine boy to an economist with the World Bank and on the resentment toward the European­descended elite that has long dominated politics in Peru. 
Indians make up 45 percent of Peru's 26 million inhabitants and 37 percent are of mixed Indian and white blood. No Indian or mestizo has been freely elected president in Peru's history although sev­eral have come to power through military coups. 
"My candidate is Toledo because he is a cholo like me," said Juan Hurtado Rivera, 59, who lost a high-paying job in a state petroleum company when it was priva­tized under Fujimori's free-market eco­nomic program. 
"He did a lot to force out Fujimori, who did so much damage to the country," said Rivera, who now works as a tailor out of his small home. "He deserves to be rewarded with the presidency. He is offer­ing more work and we have to support him." 

IEWPOINT 
O
THE page 8 BSERVER Monday, April 9, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
r.o. Box Q. Nrute O.urn,. IN 4655" 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHll!F Mike Connolly 
MANAGINC EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  
Kerry Smith  

Ni-.-ws EDITOR: Jason McFarlcy VIEWl'OINT EDITOR, Par McElwee SPOllTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadier SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MA!lv's EorroR, Myra McGrilf PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVl:RTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER, Chris Avila SThiH,tS ADMINISlllATOR: l'ahvel Chin WEB AoMINbTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLUR: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
CONTACT Us 
0.i:JCE MANAGER/GENEIW. INF0.••.••..••.•••631-7471 FAX....... , ..................................................... 631-6927 
ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF ........................................ 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR/Ass!". ME....................631-4541 
BUSINESS OFFICE........................................63I-5313 
NEWS.......................................................... 631-5323 
observer.obsnews.l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.vicwpoinc.l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observcr.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MAJly's............................................. 63I-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOT0 ........................................................631-8767 
SYSTF.MS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visic our Web site al http://observer.nd.,du for daily updates ofcampus news. sports. features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather fur up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online fcatw-es fur spe­
and rates ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
about The Obsaver
archives to search for 
arrides published after 
to meet rhe editors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is che independent. daily newspaper published in princ and online by the scudents of che University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary•s College. Editorial conrcnt. including advertisements. is not governed by policies of the adrninisrracion ofcicher insiirurion. The Observer reserves the righr ro refuse advertisements based on conrcnt. 
The news is reported as accurardy and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Edicor and depanment editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofche authors and not necessarily those ofThc Observer. 
Vi<-wpoint space is available co all readers. The free o:prc:ssion ofall opinions through leKers is encouraged. Letters co rhe Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Q!,,,,tiom ng,mling Obsm;erpobcia 1houki b,, dir«t• td to E.ditor in Chu:fMiler Connolly 
Saturday night, after most of the revelers had left College Park, a group of mildly intoxicated gentlemen stripped down to boxer shorts. spread into the parking lot and chanted unin­telligible syllables to the sound of clinking liquor bot­tles. They did it fairly well for their inebriated state. 
Two of them, however, decided that they weren't having enough fun, so they peeled off their underwear and jogged a lap around one of the townhouse com­plexes in the nude. 
The day before, the men ofAlumni Hall opted for a slightly more formal look, adding neckties to their unmen­tionables as they traversed campus in preparation for the annual Wake, spreading love, joy and carnations all over Our Lady's University. The more dignified Dawgs smoked large aro­matic cigars; the wilder ones painted their faces green and wrote slogans on their bodies like "I am fat" and "he hate me" and bellyflopped into mud puddles. 
All told, it looked almost as if they were acting out a low-budget rendi­tion of the Mel Gibson epic "Braveheart." ("They may give us parietals. but they will never take away our beer.") 
Now I enjoy wild frivolity as much as the next sophisticated, intelligent person (some prefer giving me the sophisticated and intelligent title of "dork"). But I have never and proba­bly will never understand the male fascination of making people look at our naked or near-naked bodies. 
Now mooning is one thing. As some-one with redneck roots, I can appreci­ate the act of baring one's behind, especially as the ultimate response to an insult. When you can't come up with an intelligent comeback, drop your pants. Were you the butt of a joke? Disgust the person who humili­ated you with a choice view of your butt. If you get a tattoo of a middle finger on a cheek, you can give a dou­ble insult. 



If you want to get really complicat­ed, as my football team did in high school. you make a game out of moon­ing. We put the "ass" in "Assassins." 
You move in silence, stealthily find your target, uncover your weapon and bang. Points scored. 
But you just didn't drop an atomic bomb and expose your bum to every­body just to nail your opponent. And we didn't move amongst the general populace and call attention to our naked posteriors. They weren't part of the game. 
We were ass-flashers, yeah. but we had an honor code: no collateral dam­age allowed. 
Butts are one thing -after all, Dennis Franz's rump is on display every other week on "NYPD Blue" ­but whole naked bodies are another. 
There's a converse to the "If you got it. flaunt it" axiom: If you don't got it, don't flaunt it. You will never find me taking a late-night jog in my birthday suit -I wouldn't be able to outrun law enforcement personnel who would wish to end my streak. If I ran around campus in my Fruit Of The Looms to visit potential dance dates I'd be distributing airline barf bags, not carnations. 
I just don't like being naked. If it weren't for pesky issues like hygiene. I wouldn't even shower naked. Even worse, since I make sure l show off as little skin as possible, those parts of my body that would normally he cov• ered by clothes are unnaturally pale (at least I'm assuming -I don't make it a point to look). If I dropped my 
pants in the middle of South Quad at 
just the right time of the day. I could 
blind pilots trying to guide a plane to 
the South Bend airport. ("Coming in 
for final approach, tower ... Jesus 
Christ Almighty. what the hell is 
that?" "It looks like a great big -") 
Now I'm not going to stand on a 
soapbox and claim myself the paragon 
of modesty because I can be tempted 
to strip publicly. However. it will take 
a lot more than the $20 someone 
(ironically from Alumni Hall) bet me 
to show up in a female's dorm room 
wearing nothing but a smile. 
If a million dollars were at stake I 
wouldn't mind emulating Richard 
Hatch and parading around an island 
in the buff for a few weeks. And with 
the cuisine on "Survivor" I could 
potentially look at least a little better 
naked when I'm finished. I might even 
get some sun. 
But it would definitely be a budget­buster because in addition to buying me off one would need to pay for the pain, suffering, lawsuits and possibly laser eye surgery for those unfortu­nate people who witness my buck­naked romp. And I'd need a lot of alcohol and a getaway car. But you'd get to watch a plane fall out of the sky for free. 
After all. every streaker dies. Not every streaker really lives. 
Mike Marchand is an offcampus senior English major who, despite what Gabriela from McCandless Hall might think. cannot dance. Ile would like to thank Natalie and Megan for finding him interesting enough that he didn't feel the need to shed his threads. His cousin, ironically enough, is a male exotic dancer. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Do not take life too seriously. You will never get out ofit alive. " 
Elbert Hubbard writer 


The Notre Dame Law School Natural Law Institute presents 
The Olin 
Distinguished 
Lecture Series 
II 


_e=a ~ources an 



ora 
erits '' 
Upcoming Lectures 
Germain Grisez 
April 19 

John Gardner 
Professor of Jurisprudence 
Oxford University 
Tuesday. April 1o. 2001 
4 p.m. 

Notre Dame Law School Courtroom 
,-------------------------~-------------·------------­
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, April 9, 2001 

Tennis 
continued from page 20 
appetite with an 8-2 victory over the Maroons' team of Jon Lee (who won No. 1 singles) and Nina Prasad (who dropped No. 5 singles). 
"We had such a good time our joke is that we wish we could play singles together," Knish said. "I feel I am a much stronger doubles player. Natalie and I just go out there and we have great chemistry and we just get each other motivated and we stay focus and hungrier for the points." 
Jeannie Knish and Cutler fol­lowed with an 8-3 victory to wrap up the sixth point in the Saint Mary's victory. 
The victory over the University of Chicago came close on the heels of a win over conference leader Hope that put the Belles at the top of the MJAA. The Belles soundly defeated the Flying Dutch of Hope College 7-2, bringing their MIAA record to 3-0 and giving them a first place rank­ing in the MJAA. 
"I thought that I would never see the day when Saint Mary's would be first in the MIAA , so I am extremely ecstatic about it," Knish said. "It's an unbeliev­able accomplishment and I'm incredibly proud of our. team." 
The Belles claimed five sin• gles matches and two doubles matches to smoke out the MIM victory. Cook claimed the No. 2 singles victory 2-1 (2-6, 6-4, 6­2). joined by Jeannie Knish (6­1,6-0). Cutler (6-2.6-0). Spriggle (6-4, 6-4) and Ryan (4­6, 6-3, 6-3). 
On the doubles front, the team of Annie Knish and Cook claimed a close 7-5, 6-3 victory at No. 1 doubles, joined by Jeannie Knish and Cutler who took an easy 6-0, 6-3 win. 
The young Saint Mary's team just proved to be stronger than Hope. 
"I believe they're a very young team as well," Knish said. "They lost a couple of' key players but it was definitely a strong win. Our line-up and our team were much stronger." 
On Sunday, head coach Dee Stevenson gave his starting players a rnst and played a dif­ferent line-up in a non-confer­ence loss to Tri-State. The B­squad recorded the first loss for Saint Mary's on the season. 
"We're a little upset because we were undefeated," Knish said. "God love him [Steveson]. he had good intentions but he cut the match a little too close. It wasn't a conference match and the 8-Team got an oppor­
tunity to play."  
Saint Mary's will  face  off  
against  Calvin  College  on  
Tuesday at home at 3 p.m.  

Watson 
continued from page 20 
man Julius Jones competed for the starting job. 
And like Denman, Watson has had some difficulty trying to learn a new position. In his first two seasons, Denman recorded only 34 total tackles and played behind Kory Minor. After seeing no action as a freshman running back, Watson had 11 tackles in 2000. 
"You're not just moving to defense, you're moving to five yards ofT the ball," Watson said. "You're right across guys that arc 300 pounds. Playing close to the ball, reactions are so much faster." 
Fittingly, Denman was among those who helped the then 205­pound Watson adjust in January 2000, when Watson switched positions. 
"I learned a great deal from him," Watson said. "I was just sitting there, absorbing it all, just like a sponge. Everything he had to say, I listened." 
Besides receiving advice from his fellow linebackers, the 6­foot-1 Watson also worked on his frame. lie played last season at 220 pounds and is up to 230 pounds this spring. He joined returning starters Tyreo Harrison and Rocky Boiman in the middle of the Irish defense for the first few spring practices. 
But on Saturday, during an individual drill. Watson hurt his right groin. 

"I went to make a cut and my foot just slipped from under me," Watson said. "I felt a sharp pain right then. I tried to keep going with it but my coaches told me it really wasn't worth it. It hurts pretty bad right now." 
Freshman Mike Goolsby took Watson's spot during Saturday's scrimmage while sophomore Justin Thomas played with the second team defense. It is unclear whether Watson will return for the remaining prac· tices. And although Watson is slightly ahead of Goolsby as of now, Davie still has not named a starter for the fall. 
"Right now, I'm just trying to learn," Watson said. "J can't think of taking the spot of Anthony Denman. You're not just going to find somebody to replace him." 
NOTES: 
. 
The Irish held their first scrimmage of the spring on Saturday. It consisted of 40 plays and Matt Lovecchio, Carlyle Holiday and Jared Clark received almost an equal num­ber of snaps. But due to the gusting winds and muddy field, the emphasis was placed more on the running game. 

"From an individual evalua­tion, there's nothing to be evalu­ated right now as to who did good, who did poorly," Davie said. "We got out of it without anybody getting hurt, which you knock on wood every time you come off the field after doing that." 

. 
Prior to the scrimmage, the Irish worked on special teams. Nick Setta kicked the field goals while Joey Hildbold was the punter. Setta and David Miller competed for kick-off duties, a position held last year by gradu­ating senior Matt McNew. 


'Tm really concerned about our kickoff guy," Davie said. "That's probably the biggest concern of mine in special teams. Based on today, I don't know ifwe have one." 
. Last year, Davie waited until July to announce the cap• tains. This year, that may change. 
"There's a good chance we'll do it the last week of spring, maybe the day before the spring game or maybe announce it at the spring game," Davie said. "But I'm not 100 percent sure." 
Speaking of captains, Grant Irons may be named one for the second straight year. Irons, who suffered a season-ending shoul­der injury during last season's Nebraska game, has been held back this spring. He did not scrimmage on Saturday. 
"He started some sled work (on Saturday)," Davie said. "Grant's going to be OK." 

Interested in writing news for The Observer? Call Jason at 631-5323 
~~~b~~b 
Mom always said ... 
don't talk with your mouth Juli. look both ways before you cross the street. say please and THANK YOU! 
~~~b 

·.,,.;.:r~}:::~~,s Hey seniors, can't think of a good way to thank your parents? We've got it! 
SENIOR "THANK YOU" PLAQUES 
• 
Two lines of personalization 

• 
Each plaque costs$ 45.00 

• 
Look for us on: 


• 
Tues, April IQth Senior Signups 10-5pm LaFun 

• 
Wed, April 11th ll-1pm MCoB-LAST DAY!! 




Please pick a line of personalization: Name: (As it will appear on the plaque) 
o 
"Thank you Mom and Dad" 

o 
"Thank you, Mom" School address: City, State:


. 
"Thank you, Dad" 


. 
"Thank you, [Other] ($5 charge. Must> 22 characters including spaces) Zip: Phone: Email: 


This year's quotation: 

"Education is not the filling of a bucket, it is the lighting of a fire." -William Butler Yeats Thank you [your choice] for providing the spark. 
For more information check out: http://www.nd.edu/~mgtclub 
Please make checks payable to the ND Management Club, 200 Lafortune, Notre Dame, IN 46556 


VIEWPOINT 
Monday, April 9, 2001 
page 9 
Gun control a wasted argument 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR Destruction of Zahm cowardly 
I love living in Zahm. Despite the campus' negative opinion towards Zahm, I proudly state that I am a Zahmbie. Being a part of the Zahm community opens up many opportunities to share in a strong broth­
erhood. 
This brotherhood, which often appears extreme. is very similar to the brotherhood and sisterhood that we have in the Notre Dame family. Every dorm has their own sense of brotherhood or sisterhood but we all share the common bond of being part of the Notre Dame family. But what happens when people forget the latter part, that we are an Darners? Disrespect and destruction. 
Saturday night. some individuals forgot that 
they are part of the Notre Dame family and vandalized numerous parts of our cam­pus. The Zahm Hall entrance way was covered in vulgar designs and other pictures. The Zahm Hall sign was ruined by black spray paint. The cowards that performed these offensive acts even took their hatred for Zahm out on St. Edward's by spray painting Zahm on their dorm. 
Obviously the individuals 
involved in this incident have no respect for Zahm or Notre Dame. It sickens me that somebody could ruin such a 
beautiful campus. It also sickens me that some­
body could make me rethink the image I have of the Notre Dame family. But I guess there are always a few black sheep in a 
family. I hope this was 
an isolated inci­dent and this type of destruction does 
not happen again. We will not retaliate or sink to the level of cowards. Because we are 
not cowards, we are the men of Zahm Hall. 
Sean P. Coary 
JUruor 
Zahm Hall April 8, 200 l 

Catholic Church holds double standard for gay marriages 
In his Wednesday column, Professor Rice cited the Pontifical Council statement that marriage is a natural institution prior to the state, and thus it must be favored by the law. 
However, for a government to adopt a position based solely on one religious group's opinion would violate a separation ofchurch and state. There are other religions that allow homosexual marriages. Why should their teachings be superseded by the Catholic church's in the eyes ofthe government? The Pontifical Council's opinion holds weight in Church doctrine, but not in United States law. 
Furthermore, ifwe examine what is actually done by marriage within the context of modern society (a partnership of property and protection and certain legal rights), we see that neither ofthese deals explicitly with any religious context. 
Next there is the issue ofpromotion of heterosex­ual marriage. Let me propose an analogy: suppose that our "Cultural Indicators" showed that hetero­sexual people are still getting married by the church-load but less and less couples are having children. If this were the case, would it then be the government's responsibility (nay, duty) to take away legal rights and privileges from those married couples who had no children in order to promote the continuation of society? Would it be appropriate to take away their rights merely because they made a choice counter to what some religious institution deemed appropriate? I think not. While the "contin­uation ofsociety" may seem to be a noble endeav­or, I think it is foolhardy, perhaps to the point of ignobility. 
CORRECTION 

On Friday. Viewpoint printed a letter with the author's name listed as N. Eugene Mills. The actual author is N. Eugene Walls. 
The Observer regrets the error. 

Furthermore, the idea that the acknowledgment of marriage rights of homosexuals will put us on a "dead-end road to extinction" is at best a slippery­slope fallacy and at worst a red herring. Let's be realistic: are there people out there who say, "Well, I'm homosexual, and I'd love to pursue a homosex­ual love interest, but shoot, I might not get equal tax protection so I might as well go find me a het­erosexual and have me some babies"? Of course not. This fallaciously constructed "harm" has no bearing. 
Finally, I find it interesting that the Pontifical Council alludes to some sort ofAristotelian justice (equals equal, unequals unequal). How does one decide what makes people "equal"? If one person in a heterosexual marriage is biologically unable to have children, does that make them unequal, and thus undeserving of marriage? Why shouldn't this "equality of equals" be based on love, commitment and respect, three ideals that I'm quite sure the Church agrees are imperative in a successful mar­riage? With such a vague notion of justice present­ed I find it hard to use that as a philosophical but­tress for the exclusion of a segment of our commu­nity (yes, it is our community as An1ericans) from rights and privileges that we all might want at some point. 
Mark Styczynski 
)WllOr 
Sorin College 
April 5, 200 I 

There are many issues in modern soci­ety that are interesting to debate. Issues that have as many pro arguments as con arguments so that it's impossible to resolve them unless you destroy your 
opposition. Wiping  
out the opposition is  Anna Barbour  
not very democratic  
though, so we decide  
to discuss and dis­cuss, discussing gen­ Get a Life  
eration after genera­ 
tion until hopefully  

the problem resolves itself. 
Sadly, unsuspecting individuals will con­tinue to debate some issues even after they have resolved themselves. Gun con­trol is one such issue that is over and done with yet still debated. 
People argue whether every citizen has the right to his or her personal firearm as well as the required registering and licensing time, but with the dawning of the 21st century everybody should now realize the issue of gun control is moot; this non­issue ofgun control arose awhile ago because everybody had access to rapid­fire weaponry and needed a personal firearm (PFA). 
It's difficult for me, an average, mild­mannered citizen to understand why my countrymen are not wanting to tote a pis­tol around when they go out. No doubt criminals have some automatic weaponry upon their persons to shoot upstanding citizens. Why should we good Americans not have the same power? 
My ancestors would have been able to have as many rifles as they desired if they had actually been living here two cen­turies ago. In fact, as you may well know. the right to bear arms is right there in amendment two of the Bill of Rights. Regardless of these truths though, gun control is simply impossible to maintain. Why? Because the necessity of protecting oneself negates theoretical argumentation. 
Owning a PFA is not only a right but also a duty. For example, as an earlier Observer letter so nicely put it: how can you possibly protect your significant other from evildoers in Chicago if you are not . packing heat? I mean. my gosh, if I am a small defenseless woman I think I would feel much safer if my cute boyfriend had a little revolver right there in his pocket, ready for action. Especially for all the times my significant other and I visit Cabrini Green, one of us had better have a means ofprotection. 
Incidentally, however, the female in the relationship should probably be the one to pack the protection as the FBI has issued statistics upon the fact that a firearm is used in most cases of domestic abuse and murder committed against women. Thus, when my rich boyfriend and I walk down the dark. blind alleyways, I should proba­bly be the one to have the firearm since not only is there danger from the criminal but quite possibly also from my easily angered boyfriend. 
How can it be just for the United States to disallow the good citizen from packing his or her own automatic weaponry? My great-grandmother once had her purse stolen, but I bet if she had been prepared, if she had been packing, that· criminal would have thought twice before messing with my Nonna. She would have really freaked him out. Hopefully she would not have had to shoot the evildoer, but her self-defense is nothing to make light of now is it? 

In addition, when my children go to high school. not only will they confront hor­monal problems, but now they will have to deal with really angry teenagers and their shotguns. Would you want your daughter or son, unsuspectingly passing notes in English class, to be blown away because he or she did not have the proper means of protection? Of course, if a child is not big enough to fire the gun properly, the gun is not going to be of much use to him or her. Do not fear, as states like Texas are making progress in attempting to pass into law the right for principals. if not stu­dents. to pack heat. 
Ijust don't know what this society is thinking. It's bad enough that you are not supposed to drink until you're 21 years old but you also cannot obtain a legal firearm until you are 18 years old. There go 18 unprotected years of one's life before the law is on the citizens' side in the case of guns. It's a jungle out there, you know? It's good to know that there do exist indi­viduals such as Charleton Heston, who will stand by guns and say, "only out ofmy cold, dead hand" will you pry my rifle. Perhaps if those kids every year who find their parents' guns knew how to use them, we would not have so many tragic acci­dents. And why must one conceal the gun? 
I was in Israel for a short time and I found that the presence of people with M­16s slung across their chests (like you would a purse) can appear very intimidat­ing. Maybe ifwe could all strap a rifle across our chests. we would intimidate the bad guys enough that we would not be messed with. It would be something akin to the Cold War and the deterrence factor. Would you mess with the old lady and the AK-47 or the young guy in shorts and at­shirt? It's really too much of a risk to bet that the old lady would refrain from blow­ing your head off; you just cannot know. 
Now certainly it's true that with every­one bearing a firearm there are bound to be some accidents, some over-escalated confrontations. We all know that guns don't kill people, people kill people. Yes, maybe they do so with guns but you can't direct your abuse at the gun. Perhaps you should pack a bigger weapon next time. 
If everyone has a gun then people may actually practice and know how to use their individual weapon as well as Dirty Harry knew his. Take for instance Texans and their guns. We like to pack heat in Texas. Our motto is "Don't Mess with Texas" and we mean it, but we are also the "friendly state." And why? Because you can be nice when you know you are not going to be messed with. Hence, gun control is a wasted argument as no one can say that they do not need a PFA. And once everyone has a PFA, walking around with it slung over his or her shoulder, life will be so much more pleasant. 
Anna Barbour is a junior Arts and Letters student. Her column appears every other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Bringing art home 

Dolphin and senior art m-ajors put a little bit of themselves onto canvas -and video. 
By NICOLE HADDAD 
Scene Writer 
For Colleen Dolphin, a future in art was not even a consideration before she came to college. With only a few art classes under her belt in high school, she never dreamed that she would earn her Bachelor of Arts degree in studio art with a concentration in pho­tography just four years later. 
Originally a biology major, 
In addition to on the wall. I wanted a relation­
Dolphin made "I wanted to do 
the endless ship bclween those looking at my
the bold change 
contemporary art and hours Dolphin piece and themselves, much like a
during her sec­ond semester something you haven't spent in the video artist would." dark room in Kessenich chose to do video art
f'reshman year. had much experience 
preparing her because she wanted to use a
This past week­
with." composition, medium with which most people
end. she pre­
she and the aren't familiar. "I wanted to do
sented her 
other nrt majors contemporary art and something
senior compre­Veronica Kessenich 
had the daunt­you haven't had much experience
hensive, a cap­
senior art student 

r-
stone piece of original art­work, along with five other stu­dents. in Moreau Cenier for the Arts. 
Dolphin's experience studying abroad in Ireland opened her eyes Lo many new ideas. She felt com­pelled to draw from her experi­ences and apply them to her work as an artist. 
"I loved Ireland and wondered why it wasn't here in America," Dolphin said. It was in Ireland that she first began thinking about her senior comprehensive. 
Initially, Dolphin planned to use various photographs she took in Ireland as her senior comprehen­sive. However, she wanted to extend herself even further. She searched for the culture and charm that she loved so much in Ireland in her hometown in Minnesota. 
"I decided to take documenta­tions in my town and what I saw that was unique," Dolphin said. 
Dolphin's senior composition is comprised of a series of pho­tographs of small shops and busi­nesses that have been closed in her town. Her photographs illus­trate "how larger businesses and corporations are taking over the smaller shops," she said. 
"I first realized this when I went to Ireland. It made me realize how 

much culture other countries comprehensice. Unlike studio have, and when you are in majors. art history students pre­America, everywhere seems to sent their compehensive in the look the same," she said. form of a paper. 
Oolphin's senior comprehensive · Kessenich wrote her paper on is presented in a style that resem­video art and hand bound it in a bles microfilm, -''[they are] like black book with the same dimen­historic photographs of what's to sions as a videotape. She then come," she said. placed the book inside of an old 
Dolphin gathered quotes from VCR. the Web sites of large businesses "I hope that whoever looks at it and corporations that serve as a takes the book out, reads it, and contrast to the photographs of the interacts with it," Kessenich said. 
small shops and "When you look at a video art 
businesses. piece. there's an image projected 
page l 0 Monday, April.9, 2001 
ing task of orga-with," she said. ''I've seen and nizing and worked on one of the artists I used installing the in my paper, Bill Viola. From show in Moreau. there it really interested me, its 
Installing the show turned out to history and progression." require much more work than the While both Dolphin and students initially thought. With Kessenich have worked on their strict guidelines and timetables senior compositions since the provided by the art professors to beginning of the second semester. follow. the students put countless the process in fact started much hours of their time and energy earlier. It all begins with an idea, into the pro­and from ject. there the stu­
"We even dents build 
proposals
had to hang Senior Art Comprehensives 

things so that are 
. In Moreau Center for the Arts

everything is reviewed in 
consistent," . April 13 to April 20 the first Dolphin said, semester of 
.. fo 11 0 wing . Open 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 

their senior formulas so it through Friday, 10 a.m. to noon on year. The would look second
Saturday and 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. on Sunday
like museum technique ... We all worked really hard. We were in charge of the whole opening and the reception. Even the dishes were hand made by a student." 
From creating the posters and postcard advertisements, planning and the reception and even the lighting. this show was truly cre­ated by the students in every respect. 
Veronica Kessenich, an art his­tory major, took an unusual approach in displaying her senior 

semester is 
spent creat­
ing the art piece. Three months later, after countless late nights in the dark room, studio or library research­ing and hundreds of dollars, their work is complete. 
The senior art comprehensives will be presented in he Moreau Center for the Arts from April 13 to April 20. The Center is open from 10 a.m to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, 10 a.m. to noon on Saturdays and 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. on Sundays. 

Saint Mary's art majors present their senior art comprehensives In the Moreau Center for the Arts from April 13 to April 20. Comprehensives are a capstone event meant to showcase the students' study of their particular area of Interest. 
By KATIE MALMQUIST 
Scene Copy EJicor 

For some, it marks the end of an education. For others. it is the beginning of a career. But for all the artists whose work went on display this past Sunday in the Snite Museum of Art, the Masters and Bachelor of Fine Art Thesis Exhibition opened with a sigh of relief. The projects mark the cul­mination of those students' edu­cation at the University of Notre Dame finally met the public eye. 
Spanning mediums from pho­tography, sculpture, printmaking and beyond, these projects explore a number of themes. They depict subjects ranging from as broad as the human condition to as immediate as gender rela­tions on campus. 
Among the 13 BFA and five MFA theses on display, some promise to tantalize the senses and imagination. some to leave the viewer pensive and even apprehensive, but all to reflect the hard work and immense tal­ent which these graduating stu­dents bring to campus. 
Completing her MFA in photog­raphy. artist Mary Nakada's dis­play entitled "Body Unseen" offers a series of prints which explore the human body in a way most viewers have never seen. 
"Photography," Nakada says of her work, "is a medium tradition­ally used to observe, categorize, and clarify the human body in an attempt to explore the unknown ... r present these images as quiet metaphors to contemplate the in between places where the exteri­or world and the human body col­lide." 
Nakada's photographs never depict an easily recognizable part of the human form and clearly promote a degree of self-aware­ness through this indistinguisha­bility. The light blue tones of each print offer a kind of sensuality that is both evocative and sooth­ing at the same time. They leave the viewer comfortably intrigued by these new perspectives of the human body. 
Four BFA photography theses are also currently on display. The most playful of which is Adrienne Noelle Werge's "Once Upon a Time Once More." Werge pre­sents a number of photographs which transfer childhood fairy tal~s from the pages of story­books to striking photographs of real world people and objects depicting images from the stories of Snow White. Cinderella and the Princess and the Pea. 
Jennifer Lewis' "Passages'' explore "the transience of being human and the sense of belong­ing in an environment" in a series of gelatin silver prints that almost seem like glimpses of a childhood memory in their hazy and frag­mented depictions of city build­ings, empty streets and country houses. 
In one of the more enigmatic MFA displays, printmaker Brian Sailor uses his "Atrophic Cutist Docimaticism" to explore our notions of cuteness in a series of motion-sensored inflatable 
Snite museu 

depictions of carto subjects such as a b 
tie. giraffe, bunny a "The notion of cute 
me because it is a that isn't easily 
down," Sailor say! attempts to do just th1 
Asking questions l cute exist on its ow "Can it be elevate plane of beautiful?, refers to his thesis investigation of the cute, and the possibi as a style I call c Sailor's inflatable chi pose the viewer with 1 sibility and elicit, if else, a smile. · 
Notre Dame student also crack a smile at t sis of Dave Clark. a Bl dent of graphic dcsig1' 
work has been adv throughout campus past few weeks on a n 
of controversial b 
These banners, whi 
the need for Notre D 
eta! system and sing! 
dence halls. have bet 
from residence hall 
order of the administ 
currently hang in the 
play window inviting 
peruse Clark's display 
In a collage of phot .typography. Clark activism through co: art and addresses a campus gender rela· The piece discusses t ber of female facuJt, the problems of singi mitories and the inc in the university's p tern. Clark said that" ing the topics publicly the weeks prior to th an effort which inclu the banners but also tion of The Observe! farce gender relatioE newspaper -he1· 
"intended to provoke 
community interest ir 
the subjects." 

Clark's current dis 
play in the BFA show 
highlights the univer 
sity's "obsolete atti 
tudes and chauvinisti1 
ideas," certainly car 
ries that interest t1 
fruition. 

Broader societal crit icism is seen i1 Kimberly Clement', painting thesis "American th, Beautiful." Depictin Hobert Downey Jr. Emincm, Hillar Clinton, Joe Camel references to a num her of drugs includinf Viagra and Sarai Jessica Parker in , Playboy Bunny suit Clemet's piece takes c 
ser'ious look at th< state of contemporar! America. According ti the artist, the paint ing, "portrays ho\\ Americans create anc' consume a popula culture which does no necessarily sustair 'American' values." 

Monday, April 9, 2001 
page 11 


he good, the fad and the cute 
features I 8 student MFA and BFA exhibitions this week 
n-type by. tur­~d duck. frltcrests ico nc ept pinned of his 
t. e "Can ?" and 
to the Sailor as "an otion of ity of it tism." 
racters his pos­othing 
might c the­
·A stu­whose rtised in the umber ners. 
question Clement's attempt to explore extensive sketches and a 3D 
me's pari­how the media sets "ideals of model of what he calls "a three­-sex resi­beauty, glamour, power, sexuality wheeled utility run-about" 
removed and excitement," presents the which combines elements from iridows by viewer with easily recognizable vehicles such as the side car tion. They and identifiable American icons, motorcycle and the BMW Jsetta. · 
nite's dis-yet arranges them in such a way Of course, the artists discussed tudents to that provok!:)s a feeling of dis­here are only a few of the 18 
ithin. tress, inconsistency and nearly whose work is currently on dis­raphs and ironic apprehension. play through May 20. promotes A number of other thesis dis­The projects which now popu­
emporary plays address somewhat more late the Snite are not to be umber of positive subjects. For example, Jo missed -they offer any interested on issues. Mikals-Adachi's collection of viewer a perspective of the world 
low num­small painted portraits tackles through the talent of Notre members, the problem of representing a Dame's finest artists. Visit the -sex dor­person's entirety in art. On thirty show and experience their work 
sistencies different canvases, Mikals­
for yourself. Visit it to bask in the rietal sys-Adachi depicts a variety of female glow of someone's culminating introduc­subjects in a myriad of head­creative impulses. Visit it to lose 
on campus shoulder poses, some candid, yourself. if only for an hour, in a exhibittt -some posed, but all revealing world of shapes and images that d not only some truth about their subject. you won't find anywhere else. 
e publica­Neil Fitzpatrick's industrial 
• Clark's design thesis, "Evolve," presents 



-7 p.m. Cinema@theSnite Movie 

-9 a.m. Morning Prayer in the Basilica "Trust." Admission is FREE! 
-7 & 9 p.m. ISSA International 

of the Sacred Heart. Montgomery Theater, LaFortune 
Film Festival presents "Cosi" in 

-5 p.m. Mass of the Lord's Supper in Student Center. 
the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. -7 p.m. "NAACP Black Images" 
-11 p.m.. Tenebrae in the Basilica of the lecture in Lafortune Ballroom. 
Sacred Heart. 
-9 a.m. Morning Prayer in the -9 a.m. Morning Prayer in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 

-8 a.m. Solemn Mass in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
-9: 30 a.m. Organ Prelude in the Basilica of the Sacred -3 p.m. Passion in the Basilica of the 
Heart. Sacred Heart. 
-11 :45 a.m. Sunday Mass in the Basilica of the Sacred -7:15 p.m. Stations of the Cross in 
Heart. the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
-7:15 p.m. Vespers in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. -6:45 p.m. Grotto-Rosary at the Grotto. 


Monday, April 9, 2001

page l2 The Observer . SPORTS 
Bookstore Basketball Results, April 6-8 
April 6, 2001 April 7, 2001 April 8, 2001 
Archie and 4 Other Guys Veronica Knows def.Nasty, 21-14 CA, Parietals, or Us -Any Way It's Lights Out def.Longwinded, 21-10 Goin' Sizzler def. I Write Name on Grain of Rice, 21-5 We Don't Steal, We Don't Heist, We Just Play for J.C.def. Sted's Super Science Seniors, 21-5 Team 429 def. Pasquerilla's Child, 21-4 David -1, Goliath -0 def. Mr. Hankey Working Crew, 21-13 Team 204 def. The Camara Mullets, 21-10 5 White Boys Who Will Never Dunk def. The Shamrocks, 21-0 The Pemchenko def. The Slamming Slatterns, 21-12 Prill & Co. def. If You Don't Beat Us By 10, You Suck, 21-8 My Dixie Wrecked Again def. Royala's Kickin', 21-7 Team 57 def. Team 422, 21-6 Scheidt def. Team 281,21-18 He Hate Me def. Bake Us Cookies!, 21-13 Team 46 def. International All-Stars, 21-1 Team 396 def. Shock the World, 21-17 Team 527 def. Cobra Kai IV: The Final Chapter, 21-7 Hardcore Strokers def. Mad Skillz, 21-12 Team 481 def. Matt the Drinking Machine ... , 21-14 Pyne Ryders def. It's Implicit, Stupid, 21-5 Team 178 def. Team 183,21-13 Team Moosehead def. Team 121, 21-14 We Got Worms def. 1st Class Ballers, Forfeit Team 303 def. Who's Next, 21-7 That 60s and 70s Show def. Team 492, 21-19 Teddy's Hard Drive def. We Pitty the Foo, 21-18 Team 420 def. Ave Crux Spes Unica,21-8 Keough Groove def. Kreamo, 21-15 lfl Could Live... def. Team 229, 21-17 Real Deal Bandits def. the Penetrating Sensations, 21-6 Cocoa Butter def. Team Mangina (21-11) BOB def. 4A-We like it on Top! (21-6) ICU Ballers def. Team 258 (21-15) Victoria's Secret Weapon def. Red Balls {22-20) 
They Name the Thing def. Fallopian Swim Team, 21-1 4 People Who Hate Georgia def. Team 261,21-14 Team 51 def. The 1991 Los Angeles Clippers, 21-12 Team 526 def. Team 80/457, 21-13 Sack Cloth and Ashes def. Team 367, 21-13 Rat Chicken def. The Girl Next Door,21-7 Inappropriate Touching def. Menduo II, 21-6 Real Deal Bandit def. Team 579, 21-16 Off the Chain def. Team 341, 21-6 4 White Guys and Castro def. M.O.P., 21-5 Dumper def. Team 459, 21-10 Killer Boots, Man def. Peanut Butter and Petroleum Jam, 4-1 (DQ) Team 171 def. Team 456, 21-9 Team 573 def. Keyplay.net, 21-12 Ranal Ape def. The Bricklayers, 21-17 Five Chicks Looking ... def. The Oscars 5 Kilts, No Safety Pins def. Our Play Don't Cost a Thing, 21-19 Gold Band Bandits def. Pushin' For Bills, 21-14 Bootney League All-Stars def. Strategery, 21-6 Too Much Gravity def. Team 429, 21-14 Usual Suspects def. The 4 Horsemen ... , 21-2 Because it's Sept. 16 def. Team 177, 21-18 Just Cause We Rock ... def. We Belong In the Kitchen ... , 21-14 Team 125 def. Team 218, 21-9 Team 145 def. The Blue Ballers, 21-15 Les Incompetents def. The Matrix II, 21-10 Eight Ball def. Amish Midgets, 21-6 One and Done def. Team 12, 21-6 Team 135 def. Team 42 Team 54 def. Fast Motion Gardners, 22-10 Farley's Angles def. Looks Like a · Pump, 21-12 5 reasons your girl.. .def. /~jvantiem, 21-5 Absolute Curtlies VII def. Absolut Supporters, 21-14 Versatility def. The Nuggets, 21-6 Boat Club def. Tenacious STD, 21-7 Team Athletic Department def. Team 195, 21-18 
Gone in 60 Seconds def. Team 121/ Team Moosehead, 21-9 Team 351 def. Team 324 Napolean Complex def. What's Up, Forfeit Team 330 def. 5 Guys From Fisher, 21-6 We Had a Good Game, But... def. How 'Bout Them Apples, 21-1 Beautiful Crescendo of Speed & Balance def. Winnie the Poop, 21-8 Team 137 def. River Bottom Nightmare Band, 21-5 Girth def. Pyne Ryders, 21-19 · Team Fat def. Time Out! I've Lost My Pants, 21-12 Team 411 def. Head & The Heartland Cager Dancers, 21-8 Nation of Flam def. Woody & the Pup Tents, 21-4 Apartment 26 & The Non-Ballers def. Adanac, 21-9 Team 34 def. Team 178, 21-6 Team 472 def. Team 70/322, Forfeit Who Shot the Couch IV def. Team 522, 21-6 Irvin Jones def. Team 496, Forfeit I Think I Broke My Wookie def. The Mullets: Business Up Front, Party in the Rear, 21-6 We Got Worms def. Stroke & Dribble, 21-11 Penetration def. Team 345/386, Forfeit Team 354/433 def. Free Ballers, 21-6 Team 309 def. 5 Boys Not Used to Playing with Balls, 21-4 The Sublime Pomosite Directory def. We'll Give You More Problems than OIT, 21-7 Cop & l/2 Starring Tim def. Team 139, 21-18 Team 476 def. We Like to Score, Forfeit ICU Ba11ers def. Team 314, 21-11 Hardcore Strokers def. 4 Midgets and Our Savior, 21-8 Please call us Bosephus def. Team 82 ,21-8 I can't believe it's not cocoa butter def. Team Boughaus, 21-8 TheOnion.com def. HolyBallers, 21-12 The time for honoring... def. Sofa King Hung, 21-9 Majesties def. Four guys with a woody, 21-7 Nylon Strokers def. Balls Out, Scroteam, 21-5 My Dixie wrecked again def. The Disease to Please, 21-11 I am Jack's creative team name def. No Game Scheduled, 21-6 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. ar the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexc-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds muse be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for contcnl without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR SALE 
Hide-a-bed sofa, beige plaid, 74", excellent cone!. $200. Knollwood area. 277·2510 
Europe $199 one way. Mexico/Caribbean or Central America $250 round trip plus tax. Other wide destinations cheap. II you beat these prices start your own darn airline! Book llckets on line www.airtech.com or loll free (8TT) AIRTECH. 
Oakhill COrido -4 bdr/3 bath 1/2 mile trom campus fireplace, deck, pool access $99,000/best offer call Tim@ 612-802--0285 
FOR RENT 
Rent for tall semester 4 bedrooms, 2 lull baths, washer&dryer, basement w/ hOI tub, new fumance, security system. 
Call 277-0636 
5 miles from Notre Dame Close to everything 4 bedrooms 1.5 baths recently remodeled Main level laundry finished base­men! 2076 living area plenty of storage Cali 256-0098 
SUMMER RENTAL 821 E Wash 5 bed $200/rno Eric 243-2902 
New home Fall 2001. This 3+ bdrm, 3 bath homw is close to cam­pus with features like fireplace, cahedral ceilings, lamily room, deluxe appliances, 24x30 garage. $1400/mo. Call 219-232•4527 or 616-683· 
5038. 
Fifth roomate needed for first semester. Hoose is close to cam­pus. Call Dan at 4•2091. 
Turtle Creek townhouse available for summer session Call 272--0915 
Apt. starting June 1 . 2 Bdrm 2 Bath. W/0 Minutes to campus. Call 243­0070. 
Nice 3-bdrm 1-1/2 bath Tri-level, family room, fireplace, fenced back yard, 2-car garage. $995/mo Call 219-232-4527 or 616-683-5038 
4 Bedrooms, 2 full baths, washer & dryer, basement w/ hol tub, new furnace, security system. Call to see 277-0636. 
Newly remodeled 5 bedroom house available lo rent for fall semester. 2 full baths, washer & dryer, huge rec room, security system. Call now to see 277-0636 
1 br sublet 5/1 5-8/15, Downers Grove, IL, w/d, dw, ale, great com• plex, room for 2 people, $89Qlmo+util Rachel 312-498-6579 
Chicago two bedroom in Lakeview owned by Domer, nice closets, brick 6-llat, Hardwood floors, bright apartment, decorative fireplace. near el, heat included! May 1 1250/month n3-472-7775 
3-bdrm home 2 blks from campus, Fall 01. 273-1566 
3 houses still available for 2001-02, 5-6 BR, Furnished, W/0, prime locations, 233-9947 Greg CHICAGO APT. AVAILABLE FOR 

MAY THROUGH AUGUST IN LIN­
COLN PARK LOCATION. CLOSE 
TOEL 
1 or 2 BEDROOMS 
OWN BATHROOM 
$780/rno. 

1 ·312-443-6062 JAIME 
3-6 BDRM HOMES $180 per person 
Furn. Summer/Fall 
272-6306 

Rooms for rent $250-$400/mo. + $100 up front deposit (refundable). Include. Utilities, w/d, partially furnished, stove, refrig, micro. Call Robert 234·9387 (home) or 286-9387 (cell) 
ROOMS FOR GRAD WEEKEND 
Wild Irish Rose Inn 

3mi north ol campus 
'brkfst buffet ea AM 
"clean, comfortable & afford• 
able 

(2190 277-4303 or 
'tl:JIYi. !illaicilibW:H! !c!!ID 
studio apt. in quiet neighborhood near Notre Dame. Unfurnished, cable, patio; $330/mo. Plus electric. Available June. Tel. 616-687-8924 One bedroom apt. on private wood-eel estate in Niles. Unfurnished, ale, garage, deck, gardens, creek, 575/mo. Inc. utilities. Available June. Tel. 616-687-8924 
WANTED 

Returning to ND alter college tor 
graduate or law school? We are 
looking for another roommate to 

share furnished house near earn• pus. Gall 289-5651 
Roommate(s) to fill out house off 
campus 
Call Michael@ 288·3429 

Now hiring servers and hostesses 
at LePeep -Downtown South 
Bend. Great Hours, great Pay, 
Great Fun! 288-7337 

Need part-time leasing. Now to September. 20-25 hrs/Week Organization skills, fifing, phone. Ca11Tara272-1441 or 2721461. 
ROOMATE WANTED for next fall in 2BR 2 bath Oakhill COnClo wf AC, DW, W/D. For info call 243-8954, ask for Pete. Grad student preferred. 
Graduating seniors: Looking to sell your apartment furni• ture (beds, desks, couches, etc)? ND juniors looking to buy. Call Nick at 4-4716 if interested. 
PERSONAL 
Indiana Catholic couple with huge hearts wishing to adopt a child. We can provide your baby with lots of love and a secure, stable life. Reasonable expenses will be paid. For more into, please call Rebecca re Larry and Cathy: toll-free 1-866­30-ADOPT 
NDToday's going all the way. B.J and Todd are awesome ballers and Rob's the secret weapon. Kat 
Way to go, Playgirls. Our next opponent has no chance. 
Father Sorin's .. and Four Other Stiffs is going to dominate today. 
Hey Anne, Here's your classified. 
Goodnight 
Time to go. 

Monday, April 9, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
Sports reporters have the life 
Do you like to watch sports reports on TV? 
Any type of sports reports, I mean. They can be local TV news, ESPN Sportscentcr, or whatever 
else. 
If you do, it's all about the high­lights, the clever com­mentary, and the chance to 


view a day's Ted Fox 
worth of 
sports com­
pressed into 
Fox Sports ...

a manage­
Almost

able block 
of time. 
But who are those people sitting behind the sports desk or standing next to some oversized team logo on a big screen monitor? How can they bounce from high school basketball to NFL football to col­lege basketball and then switch to NASCAR while we sit at home feeling our sports lQs grow? 
This semester, I've interned in the sports department at WNDU TV. Watching weekend sports anchor Drew Speier and others have to deal with late video feeds or cutting highlights right until they go on the air, I've sometimes started to wonder whether all that deadline stress would be worth it. 
In an attempt to conduct some cost-benefit analysis, I asked Drew what sporting events, obvious benefits. his job has taken him to. 
"It's taken me to two Super Bowls, New Orleans and in Miami. College World Series in Omaha, three times. [NCAA] basketball regionals in Richmond and Atlanta ... obvi­ously this year, the Final Four. 
"[I've] been to the Cotton Bowl 
many times. I guess the only 
bowl I have not been to is the 
Rose Bowl. I've been to the 
Masters golf tournament twice. 
''I've been to six man football 
in Christoval, Texas." 
Throw in a grab bag of mid­
major golf tournaments, pee­
wee football, young gymnasts 
dreaming big, Olympic swim­
mers and countless others that 
he can't remember immediate­
ly, and you have the stops on 
this sports man's itinerary. 
I don't know about you, but 
I'm jealous. 
Growing up in Texas, Drew's involvement with sports was focused on the field, primarily as a football player. But without even kno½ing it, he started get­ting ready for what would one day become his passport to the attractions, and occasional freak 
shows. of the sports world. 
''I'd kept a journal for years ... and I used to record sportscast­ers on my cassette ... before I even knew what I wanted to do. So I was sort of into it, didn't even really realize I was into it before I got into it. 
"And things turned out the way they were supposed to because you have to know a lit­tle bit about sports to become a sportscaster, and having played sports certainly helps." 
To put that sports knowledge on display in a neat and tidy four or five minute package takes a lot of preparation. Before you can show a Hornets highlight of Baron Davis refus­ing to fake the funk on a nasty dunk, you have to go to work. 
"It's like anything else," Drew said. "It's like you see the game on Sunday, you don't see the week of preparation, all the time those coaches put in ... coming up with a game plan. We have to come up with our own game plan. 
"Toe easiest part of what we 
do is when you go out there, sit 
down, and flip on the micro­
phone. Then you know your 
work is done. All you have to do 
is deliver it." 
And when you talk to this sportscaster, you can see why sports were the only way for him to go. 
It's not the novelty of being on TV or having people recognize you in line at Arby's that keeps him coming back to that sports desk. 
Instead, it's the same thing that drove him as an athlete and still pushes those athletes he now covers. 
The competition. 
"I want to go one-on-one ""ith you ... and if you win, great, but you know what? Bring something with you, because I'm not going to go down easy. 
"You take that competitive edge with you into this business. And you know when you win. And there's no better feeling than knowing when you break the story that nobody has ... that's what it's all about. That's what journalism is supposed to be." 
He laughed when he told me: "That's the real thrill, is getting the stories out and beating the dog out of the competition." 
So basically, you get to go to all these sporting events, watch your blood pressure climb a few points right before each time you go on the air, devise new ways to spice up a home run call and talk smack through your selection ofCubs highlights? 
In Sportscenter speak, that's cooler than the other side of the pillow. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


WOMEN'S TRACK AND FIELD 
Irish run away with victory at hoDle Dleet · 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Sports Editor 
With a small squad, the Irish 
women's track and field team 
was anything but undermanned 
on Saturday. 
With many athletes competing 
in multiple events, the Irish 
placed first in the home spring 
opener, finishing with 170.5 
points to top Miami (Ohio)'s 129 
and Western Michigan's 90.5. 
Placing in three events for the 
Irish was Jaime Volkmer, who 
won the pole vault while taking 
second in the long jump and 
triple jump. 
Volkmer, who rarely competes 
in the long jump, extended a 
leap of 18 feet, 1 1/2 inches. 
"She's doing well," Irish jumps 
coach Scott Winsor said. "She 
actually asked me after the 
meet if she could long jump 
more often. I said 'By all 
means.'" 
In the pole vault, Volkmer cleared 11 feet, the same height cleared my teammates Natalie Hallett and Jill Van Weelden. Winsor expected more from his sophomore. 
"She lets her head take over a 
little bit too much," Winsor said. 
"She just needs to let her talent 
take over. Honestly I thought 
she's be vaulting much higher 
by now." 
In the triple ]ump, Volkmer leaped 39-4 1/2 -an impres­sive leap considering that she concentrates almost solely on the pole vault in practice. 
"I think she's capable ofjump­ing further than that," Winsor said. "Whether or not I can expect that out of her. that's a good question." 
Volkmer wasn't the only Irish jumper who had a good day. Classmate Tameisha King took first in both the long jump and the 100-meter hurdles. 
King cleared 20 feet-1 on her fourth attempt, her last jump due to coaches limiting her attempts on the afternoon. 
"She quite often jumps her best jumps four, five and six," Winsor said. "Not having two more jumps may have cost her.'' 
In the hurdles, King's time of 
14.31 seconds was more than half a second ahead of second place Erin Connolly of Miami. 
Junior Dore DeBartolo, who missed the indoor season due to injury, had a busy afternoon, collecting two first-place finishes 
to go along with two second­
place marks. 
DeBartolo won the hammer 

throw with a throw of 182 feet, 
just missing the NCAA provi­
sional qualifying mark. She also 
won the shot put with a distance 
of 46 feet-6 while taking second 
in the javelin and discus, an 
event in which she usually 
excels. 
''Technically she's got a lot of 

things to iron out in the disc," 
Winsor said. "She's just got to 
learn how to do tha.t. In the 
hammer she's doing really well, 
she just keeps improving." 
In the sprints, the 4x100 relay 

team of Uz Grow, Ayesha Boyd, 
Kristen Dodd and Kymia Love 
provisionally qualified for the 
NCAA Championships with a 
first-place time of 44. 7 4 sec­
onds, more than four seconds 
ahead of second-place Western 
Michigan. Sprints coach John 
Millar thinks that that time puts 
his team right at the top of the 
Big East. 
''I'd like to say that that time probably could win it," Millar said. "Last year we were third and we ran high 45's. I think Miami is probably the only team that's run faster than that." 
After the relay, Millar gave Grow the rest of the day off. set­ting the stage for a great day by Dodd, who won the 100-meters in a time of 12.72 seconds before taking first in the 200­meters, running 25.07. 
"I think she ran a terrific relay leg and really got us started out there," Millar said. "She had a real good day, I was really excit­ed for her.'' 
Sophomore Jennifer Handley won both the 1,500-meters and 3,000-meters. 
Handley's time of 4:42.92 was nearly three seconds ahead of Miami's Kylee Studer in the 1,500. In the 3,000, Handley's mark of 10:15.78 put her more than six seconds ahead of team­mate Krissy Kuenster. 
In the middle-distance races, Megan Johnson won the 800­meters in a time of 2:12.35 whi1e Love won the 400, finish­ing in 55.25 seconds. Senior Carri Lenz won the 400-meter intermediate hurdles, going over her obstacles in 62.04 seconds. 
In the field events freshman Jennifer Kearney leaped 5 feet­7 to take first in the high jump, while Andre Duplechain won the javelin with a throw of 120­feet-10. 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, April 9, 2001 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Irish cruise to 19-5 win over Huskies 
By ANTHONY BISHOP 
Sports Wrirer 
The Notre Dame women's 
lacrosse team treated a large 
crowd to a 19-5 win against 
Connecticut Sunday. 
The Irish offense started things off as junior captain Alissa Moser scored an early goal. Penalties stalled the Irish momentum and Connecticut's Susan Payne tied the score at 1. 
That was all the Irish needed 
to boost their productivity. 
Four seconds after a Connecticut defender drew a yellow card, sophomore Danielle Shearer scored her first goal of the game with an assist by senior captain Lael O'Shaughnessy. 
After the draw, Shearer got the ball from freshman Kassen Delano, and scored again. After the next draw, Shearer scored once more. 
Shearer's natural hat trick 
came within 41 seconds. 
She credits the defensive effort as they "started all of the runs. Their feeds were amazing as they sparked the attack." 
On the opposite end of the field. sophomore goalie Jen White was the cornerstone to a brick wall playing defense for Notre Dame. 
White's saves set up scores by junior Natalie Loftus and Delano. With the score at 6-1, the defense finally gave up another goal and would only give up three more late in the game. 
O'Shaughnessy finally scored her first of three goals with one of Shearer's two assist,;. Minutes later, aided by horrible Husky ball handling and an assist by 
· Delano. senior Maura Doyle scored. The scoring barrage for Notre Dame ended on a Delano score with the help of Shearer's second assist. 
"Our shot selection was vrrv good," Delano said. "We r.eally worked on focusing on this game and making ourselves better from the Vanderbilt loss and it showed as the whole team played their best." 
Heather Bliss scored just before the half to bring the Huskies within seven, 10-3. 
In the second half, the Irish capitalized on Huskie penalties as Shearer, Moser, O'Shaughnessy and Loftus all scored. 
The Irish scored five more as the clock ran continuously toward the end of the game. 
Two late Connecticut scores brought the final score to 19-5. Shearer led the Irish offense with five goals and two assists. 
O'Shaughnessy added three goals and two assists while both Delano and Moser tallied two scores. 
The defense was equally as impressive as White saved shots and only allowed three goals and backup Tara Durkin allowed two goals with two saves. 
This is the best start in school history at 7-2 (3-0 in Big East) which ties the team's record in the 1999 season. 
The Irish return to action on Friday when they go on the road to take on Duke. 
Please Recycle The Observer. 
TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 

The Students' rt choice in Off-Campus Housing 
DON,T WAIT APPLY TODAY!!!! 
P: 272-8124 


NEED CASH? 
NEW DONORS EARN $20 TODAY 
MENTION THIS AD FORA$5.00 BONUS 
Up to $1 45.00 a month in 2-4 hours a week 

SERA CARE PLASMA 
234-601 0 515 LINCOLNWAY WEST 
THE MASTERS 

Woods makes history with win 
Associated Press 

AUGUSTA, Ga. 
The vanquished usually 
make a mad dash to the 
parking lot on the final day of 
the Masters. 
T h i s time, it was differ­ent. 

S O m C gathered in front of TVs in the Augusta National clubhouse. A few more actually wandered out to the 18th green to witness in person. Tiger Woods was making history, and even the guys he beats week in and week out wanted to see. 
"It's a great time to be involved in the game, whether you 're a player or a spectator," Steve Stricker said. '"It's a great time to watch." 
Woods kept his rivals around until the end Sunday. even those who completed their 18 holes with no chance of denying his destiny. 
Call it a Grand Slam, call it a Tiger Slam, it really makes no difference. This was some­thing special, a moment that transcended the game of golf to become one of those land­mark moments in the American sports lexicon. 
DiMaggio's 56-game hitting streak. Chamberlain's 100­point game. Tiger's four straight major champi­onships. 

"He's not like anyone we've seen before in the game," said Mark Calcavecchia, who returned to the course in time to watch Woods wrap up a clean sweep of the U.S. Open, British Open. PGA Championship and Masters ­albeit not in the same calen­dar year. 
Woods held off his two most dangerous rivals. David Duval and Phil Mickelson. with a 16-under 272 total to win the first major of 2001. 
In a span of 294 days. Woods routed Pebble Beach, conquered the home of golf at St. Andrews, hung on to win a heart-stopper at Valhalla, and picked up a second green jacket at Augusta National. 
"It is special," he said. "It really is." 
Four years earlier. Woods introduced himself to the world with a remarkable 12­stroke victory at this very course. It was his first major title and one he didn't fully appreciate at age 21. 
"I guess I was a little young, a little naive," Woods said. "I didn't understand what I accomplished for at least a year or two after that event." 
Now an old man of 25, he fully comprehends the gravity of the moment. It's tough enough to win one major pro­fessional title. Two in a row is something special. 
But four in a row? That was thought to be unattainable, until Woods set the bar so high that only he can reach it. 
"This year, I understand," he said. "I have a better appreciation for winning a 
major championship. To win four of them in succession. it's hard to believe, really." 
Woods raised his arms in triumph after his final shot, an 18-foot putt, curved gently into ·the cut f'or a birdie. lie wound up 2 shots ahead of Duval, with Mickelson in arrears by 3. 
"He seems to do just what is required," Mickelson· said. "I think if' I was making a run, he may have followed suit." 
Duval and Mickelson were both doomed by bogoys at tho par-3 16th. 
Duval rocketed a 7-iron over the green, and couldn't get up and down with a slip­pery, downhill chip. Mickelson's tee shot reached the green. but in the worst possible location -an upper tier that led to a 3-putt bogey. 
Woods began the day with a 1-stroke lead and closed with a 4-under 68, thanks to a spectacular 8-iron from 149 yards that grazed the cup at the 11th hole for a tap-in birdie. He went to No. 18 needing just a par to clinch victory, but went the extra step -as usual -with a birdie. 
"I was so attuned to each and every shot," said Woods, who took a congratulatory call from President Bush. "I finally realized I had no more to play. That's it. I'm done." 
Woods buried his face in his cap, the only time all day he wasn't in control. Then he strolled off the green into the embrace of his father, who taught him the game, and his mother. 
PPE THE MINOR IN PHILOSOPHY, POLITICS, AND ECONOMICS 
The PPE Concentration invites applications from undergraduates with special interests in the intersecting areas of political philosophy, political theory, and econo~ic analysis. Every year about twenty highly motivated and talented students are admitted to PPE. Check it out to see if it is for you. Many of our students go on to careers and top graduate programs in law, public policy, philosophy, political science, and economics. 
If you are looking for 
an integrated approach to politics and justice, without all the requirements of a second major, and 
(1) 

an intellectual community of faculty and students who share your interests,
(2) 
then PPE wants you! 

FOR MORE INFORMATION, contact either Professor David O'Connor, Philosophy 
Department, O'Connor.2@nd.edu, 631-6226, or Professor John Roos, Government 
Department, Roos.l@nd.edu. 
FOR AN E-MAIL APPLICATION, simply send a request to either Professor John 
Roos at Roos. l@nd.edu or Professor David O'Connor at O'Connor.2@nd.edu. The 
application deadline is noon on Thursday, April 12. Late applications will be accepted 
onlv if openings are still available. 
page 17 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, April 9, 2001 
MEN'S LACROSSE 
Ulrich leads Notre Dame to 16-6 victory over Denver 
By JOE LICANDRO 
Sports Writer 
With a balanced offensive attack led by senior Todd Ulrich's sea­son-high four goals and strong team defense, the Notre Dame men's lacrosse team dominated its 16-6 w.in against the University of Denver from start to finish. 
Ulrich immediately got the Irish off on the right track three min­utes into the game by scooping up a loose ball and shooting it past his former high-school teammate goalie Brian Berger. 
Less than a minute later, Ulrich would net his second goal of the game with a blazing shot from 15 yards out. 
'Tve been playing well the last couple of games but my shots just haven't been going in," said Ulrich who had only three goals this sea­son before the Denver game. "Today, I'm glad I got off to a fast start. It was a little bittersweet. though, because Hrian is one of my best friends." 
The Irish led 6-0 at the end of the first quarter but Denver mounted a comeback at the begin­ning of the second quarter with two quick goals. 
After a time out by Irish coach Kevin Corrigan, the Irish made some adjustments and finished the first half with an 8-2 advantage thanks to three unanswered goals by Jon Harvey, David Ulrich and John Flandina. 
"I was a little upset because we lost our concentration and had a mental lapse out there," Corrigan said. "We need to stay focused for all 60 minutes of the game." 
The Irish kept up the pressure in the second half as Flandina and Ulrich each scored. 
Team captain Tom Glatzel net­ted two of his three goals midway through tho second half raising his season total to a team leading 26 goals. 
With two fantastic assists, Glatzel, also a high-school team­mate of Ulrich and Berger at Boys' Latin in Maryland, raised his sea­son point total to 35. 
"This was our most complete game of the season but we were a little lackadaisical at the begin­ning of the second quarter," Glatzel said after the game, "We can still play better." 
The Irish don't have much time to celebrate their second GWLL lacrosse victory of the year, how­ever. Notre Dame takes on GWLL foe Air Force today at 4 p.m. in the second of a critical four game home stand. 
Corrigan expects another tough challenge for the Irish on Monday. 
"I expect Air Force to be a tough, hard-nosed team," he said. "They wiH come at us for 60 min­utes." 
With only one day to prepare in between games, the Irish must continue to stay focused to main­tain their momentum. 
"Air Force will be a well-disci­plined team," Ulrich said, "Since we don't have a lot of time to pre­pare, we can't be as concerned with what they are trying to do. We just have to concentrate on us getting better." 



r--------------------------------------------------· -------­
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, April 9, 2001 
SOFTBALL 

Saint Mary's drops weekend doubleheader to Hope 
By KATIE McVOY Associarc Sporrs Edicor 
Saturday was a study in contrast for the Saint Mary's Belles and the llope Flying Dutch in all aspects but one. 
In a doubleheader at Hope, the Flying Dutch finished victorious twice. 
Hope (10-6, 4-0 MIAA) controlled the opener from the beginning, finishing the game with a 6-0 victory. Pitcher Kim Grotcnhuis (5-3) dominated, shutting out Saint Mary's and giving up only two hits to Belles' hitters. 
"She was pretty quick and we just couldn't hit her," senior pitcher Anne Senger said. 
Six hits were enough to bring six Hope players across home plate. Hope's Carrie Scott hit back-to-back two run homers, finishing the game 3-3, with four RBIs and nine total bases. Belles pitcher Kristin Martin took the loss while Grotenhuis picked up the win. 
While the first game may havo played out to an inevitable ending, game two kept fans on the edge of their seats. Although the Belles dropped the second game 8-7, they proved they were con­tenders. 
"The first game we weren't in it, but the second game was a really good game." Senger said. "We were down a couple of times and we came back and kept on hitting and if we hadn't of had so many errors we would have the game." 

Hope pitching may have dominated in game one. filled in by good hitting, but game two proved to be more of a strug­gle for the Flying Dutch. as they scored several runs on Saint Mary's errors and served up several homeruns. 
Hope came out with an early 1-0 lead that didn't last long. l.n the third inning Libby Wilhelmy and Katrina Tebbe smacked homeruns putting the Belles on top. Tebbe· grand slam led to a 5-1 Saint Mary's lead. 
"We hit really well," Senger said. 
Hope battled back in an error-lilied fifth inning bringing putting the Flying Dutch back on top, 6-5. 
Hope took out starting pitcher Andrea Adams and put in Grotenhuits, hoping she could once again shut down Saint Mary's hitters and claim the win for the Flying Dutch. No such luck. 
Saint Mary's Rachel Deer came in a hit a two-run homer off of Grotenhuis to put the Belles ahead 7-6. 
In the seventh, Hope scored twice more on a walk, a stolen base. a hit and two errors to claim the win. 
The two losses leave the Belles with a 9-12 record {1-5 MIM). They will next face o!T against Calvin at home Tuesday. 
MEN'S TRACK AND FIELD 

Shay paces Irish to second-place finish at home meet 
I just wanted to get in and com­Culver in the 200. "I think the "I was really pleased with than two months ago, excelled
By NOAH AMSTADTER 

pete. I think the problems I've 200, between the wind and Napoleon," Millar said. "He real­in the high jump for the second 
Sports Edi,or 

had in the past with the mile probably being a little tired, he ly seems to be coming along and week in a row, taking first with 
and the 1,500 were more mental didn't look as strong. But l think getting comfortable with the 400 a leap of 6-10 3/4. Redwine 
Ryan Shay had one heck of a than anything else. I Just told he was smart in not pressing hurdles." nearly cleared the NCAA-quali­workout Saturday afternoon. myself that that whole meet and taking any chances." In the field events, the Irish fying mark of 7-1. 
Competing in both the 1,500-Saturday was going to serve as a The relay team of Davey, excelled in the javelin, an area "He had two decent attempts meters and 3,000-meters at the workout for me." William "Red" Croker, Marton that had been a weakness until at 7-1," Winsor said. "He's Spring In the 5,000 meters, Shay led Gyulai and Godwin Mbagwu fin­recently. Senior Matt O'Brien's jumping really well right now." Opener, 
the entire race. Running into a ished in 41.83 seconds, .02 sec­throw of 190 feet, 10 inches The Irish also got a strong Shay won strong headwind nearly half the onds behind Western Michigan. topped teammate Mike performance from junior Josh the 5,000 race, he finished in 14:43.51, Millar was impressed with his Madigan's second-place mark. Heck in the pole vault. who took and placed two seconds ahead of Brian team's performance running "Those guys threw exception­second overall. clearing a mark third in the Godsey of Miami. without top sprinter Tom ally well. They finally broke of 15-6 to finish ahead of 3,000 to "I really don't like to think of Gilbert, who was out with a out," said Irish field events Michigan State's Matt Deering, lead the that guy as competition, but he hamstring injury. coach Scott Winsor. "Matt had who cleared the same height but Irish to a stuck with me," Shay said. "I did "I think that we had some been struggling for a little while. had more misses. second-all the work into the wind, it was good hand-offs and they held What we did was we slowed "Josh I thought competed place over-Shay very windy. He just drafted off their own," Millar said. "It came down his approach. He was try­extremely well," Winsor said. "It all finish. me all day. But I was pretty con­down to a close finish." ing to use speed instead of his was extremely windy. He beat 
Notre Dame ended the day fident that he wasn't going to go The Irish received a strong arm strength. Mike has been out a very good Michigan State with 174 points, behind Western byme. performance in the 400-meter improving every week in prac­pole vaulter. I look to him to Michigan's 202 and ahead of Another athlete who excelled intermediate hurdles from tice." kind of be the leader in that Miami (Ohio)'s 132 and for the Irish on Saturday was freshman Napoleon Suarez, who Junior Quill Redwine, who event, to show by example. He Michigan State's 119. sprinter Travis Davey. Davey took first in 53.75 seconds. underwent knee surgery less did that." 
In his first race, Shay was the took first in the 100 meters, first Irish runner across the line while finishing second in the in the 1,500. 200-meters and leading off 
llis time of 3:58.27 was less Notre Dame's second-place than half a second behind win­4x100 meter relay team. ner Andy Lixey of Michigan His time of 11.07 seconds SJate. Pat Conway, Notre eclipsed second-place Josh Dame's best miler during the Culver of Western Michigan by indoor season. took 13th. finish­more than three tenths of a sec­ing in 4:06.9 in his first meet ond. since coming back from a knee "He was real solid," Irish injury. sprints coach said of Davey, who 
"I felt pretty good going into it. finished .2 seconds behind 
Odd Jobs keeping you 
doWfl? 
• 
The Career Center is Now Hiring... 
The Career Center is searching for students to work as Career Assistants in the 2001-2002 school year. 
For more information please contact: Allison Hagan, Career Assistant Manager 114 Flanner Hall • 631-4474 hagan.14@nd.edu 
Applications are available in 114 Flanner Application deadline is April 17 
( eJ#~:--r:~ http://careercenter.nd.edu 



Monday, April 9, 2001 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
RUU: OF OORM LIFE #56: SOMEHOW, AT THE W~ST POSSIBl.E MOMENT, .SOMEONE WILL PULL THE FIRE ALARM 

Fox TROT 
:JASoN, n-lESE <",AMES :JUST 
k:EEP GETTING MORE AND MoRE HORRIFIC! 
I 
~b 
~~ 
~' 

TOM KEELEY 
BILL AMEND 
THE CARNAGE oRAT IS ,11RTUALLY DAD REALLY LEAST GlvE NONSTOP! 8 SHOULD THEM WARN­
~ ... 

" LE.A~N To IN(; LABELS. I DELETE HIS 
\ 
• OLD CHESS ~ 
' 
MATCH FILES. 

------, 
.... 
0 
TYLER

THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 
..

March r-ronl'f \T v.10.~n·t !)O 
* cold , 5oot-h Be.nd WO\J\d IOC 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 34 Hubbub 1 Exchange 37 Quartet alter a 5 No longer desertion 
waiting on the 38 Popeye's gal pier Olive 11 Watch display, 39 1956 sci-ti for short classic 14 Fictional wizard 44 French article_ who studies at 45 QB Flutie Hogwarts 46 Break bread 16 Cargo on the 47 Old draft initials Spanish Main 
48 Partner of 

17 Rarely dangerous 19 Sch. org. so Baseball's Say 20 According to Hey Kid 
21 Mining tools 54 Prefix with plasm 22 Cushion 56 Filmgoer's lure 23 Miss Hawkins of 59 Mideast inits. 
Dogpatch 60 Air traffic control 26 Talk a blue device streak? 63 U.S. soldiers 28 Tree of life locale 64 Schuss 30 Angry dog's 65 Song from the response Beatles' "Abbey 33 Stew vegetable Road" 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE S C R E W 
K O A  L A  
U N  X  
B  I  
C A  

69 A foot wide? 70 Convert to McDonald's, the 
Gap, etc. 71 Genetic stuff 72 Serious lack 73 Like Latin, today 
DOWN 
1 "Olde" 
establishment 2 Classified 3 Coin-op place 4Grand_, 
Nova Scotia 5 Sleeping 
disorder 6 S.A.T.'s 7 Gambling spot, 
in brief 8 The "A" of NATO: Abbr. 
9 Enlist again 10 Eins + zwei 11 View 1~ Ocular problem 13 Mafia chief 
15 Pound sounds 18 1200, on a monument 24 It has no 
decimal point 25 Merit 27 Ice melter 

A G ...;;....;...;....-41!-.;;~~~ 29 Apprehendi,.;,R,:.i.;;E;+;-.~Bl!!I 31 Ready to pluck D E 32 "Copacabana" 
-,-+....+..+::+.:-t showgirl 35 number on (psyched out) .....+=+~.,.,+..+..+-.+.,e+,e-4 36 "P.U.!" cause 
M I 
"-+..+:~ -:+=+-A...+:Re-t 39 It may be kept

B A 
-. in a box in the 

S N E .....r...;;..i..;;..i..;.. T E basement 

Puzzle by Brendan Emmatt Quigley 40 like a computer 57 Bandleader 
icon 41 Interstate stopping point 
42 Place for trash 43 PIN requester 49 Loafs 
51 Sydney native 52 Japanese gangster group 53 Fished with a net 55 "_ to Billie Joe· 
Miller 
58 Worker protection grp. 
61 West Point, e.g.: Abbr. 62 Vatican's locale 

Ans.vars to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95e per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-883-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Francis Ford Coppo­la, Billie Holiday, Ravi Shankar, Russell Crowe, James Garner, Jackie Otan, Janis Ian 
Happy Birthday: You're off to the races this year. Nothing will stand in your way if you are quick to jump on opportunities. You will face any challenge head-on knowing that you have what it takes to do the best job possible. You will not let any set­back slow you down or stop your progress regardless of what anyone else says or does. Your numbers: 3, 8, 18, 25, 28, 46 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Get off to an early start. This will be a great day to make those per­sonal changes you've been con­templating. You can dodge dis­agreements with loved ones if you keep busy. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
Don't take your frustrations out on others. Join clubs that will pro­vide you with the physical exer­tion you need. Take care of your own needs and forget about what others are doing. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): 
The female members of your fam­ily will be hard to deal with. Try to stay calm even if someone is trying to push you into an argu­ment. Moves or home-improve­ment plans will be costly. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
The ideal mate will surface if you start doing things that you enjoy yourself. You need to interact more if you want to round out your life. Staying home won't help your present situation. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): This is not the best time to take a risk, gamble or spend money you really can't afford to part with. 
EUGENIA LAST 

Your generous nature will be taken advantage of. 0000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 

You'll be emotionally up and 
down. Don't take your frustra­
tions out on loved ones. Do 
things that involve children. You 
will be able to work with fine 
detail if you are following a cre­
ative direction. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0cl 22): You can make beautiful changes to your living quarters. Try to sur­prise the one you love with spe­cial plans for two. Don't listen to friends who aren't totally aware ofyour situation. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 

Relationships will be passionate but probably move too quickly. You have a way of mesmerizing the one you love. 0000 
SAGITfARIUS (Nmt 22-Dec. 21.. 

Don't try to impress superiors by making someone look bad. Your attitudes and opinions regarding what you want in a mate are changing. It may be lime to re­evaluate your motives. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 

New acquaintances will spark some pretty good ideas in you. You can invest in joint ventures, but make sure that you aren't the only one putting in the cash. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't get depressed about things that didn't.tum out in the past. Get on with your life and start meeting new people. Only you can make the changes necessary to your happiness. 00000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your emotional life will suffer if you've been playing both ends against the middle. Social activi­ties will be fun, but avoid overindulgences. 000 
Birthday Baby: You are attractive, engaging and know how to work a crowd. You have poise, charisma and sophistication. Because you know how to get others to listen, you will be noticed and admired by your peers. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialastcom, astromate.com.) 
Cl 2001 UniV<!I!!lll Press Syndicate 

~~-----------------~-----------------------------------------------------­
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 

_Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name --------------------------­
Address City ________ State ____ Zip______ 



Dominating performance 
The Notre Dame men's lacrosse team turned in a strong outing defeating Denver 16-6 at home Saturday.
PORTS 
page 17 

O
THE page 20 BSERVER Monday, April 9, 2001 
HANGIN' AROUND 

,. 

BRIAN PUCEV1CH/The Observer 

In the opening rounds of Bookstore Basketball XXX, a member of No. 10 Diaper .Dandies dunks In a win over Four Engineers and a Chem Major at Stepan Sunday. For complete Bookstore Basketball results see page 12. 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Saint Mary's remains undefeated in MIM 
By KATIE McVOY Associate Sports Editor 
The Saint Mary's tennis team seems to ha.we acquired a taste for victory. 
Two definitive wins on Thursday and Saturday have left the Belles undefeated and in first place in the MIAA. 
Saint Mary's topped University of Chicago on Saturday 6-3 to up its record to a perfect 10-0, avenging a 5-4 loss to the Maroons last year. 
Things got off to a rocky start at Saturday's match at Angela as four of the Belles six singles players dropped their first set to the Maroons of Chicago -Annie Knish at No. 1 singles, Natalie Cook at No. 2 singles, Jeannie Knish at No. 3 singles, and Elisa Ryan and No. 6 singles. But the Belles came back as Jeannie Knish and Ryan claimed the win over their opponents in successive matches. 
"I think that we have a lot more depth this year and we're really strong in our sin­gles spots all the way across the board," team captain Annie Knish said. "I think that our singles positions are almost a guarantee and we really rely on those points." 
Annie Knish, who dropped her first match 6-2. claimed solid victories over Chicago's Lisa Kahn 6-3, .6-3 in the next two sets to claim the point for Saint Mary's. Ryan also came out of her second and third sets with solid play. defeating Mary Tan 6-2,6-3. 

Freshmen Kaitlin Cutler and Kris Spriggle took their opponents without worrying the fans, claiming 2-0' victo­ries over Chicago's No. 4 and No. 5 singles players. Cutler went 6-0. 6-2, and Spriggle claimed two sets 6-1, 6-4. 
After dropping their singles matches, Annie Knish and Cook were hungry for a victo­ry in doubles. They filled that 
see TENNIS/page 14 
FOOTBALL 
Watson 
excels in Spring 
By TIM CASEY 
Senior Staff Writer 
Ask Bob Uavic about sopho­more linebacker Courtney Watson and the Irish head coach offers two contrasting answers. 
"llc's like 
an Anthony Denman," Davie said a f t e r Saturday's practice. "You almost pattern him exactly like 

we did with Watson Uenman. He's about on the same kind or course as Denman is on." 
A few minutes later, Davie had another viewpoint on the Sarasota, Fla. resident. 
"If you try to compare him with Anthony Denman right now, that's tough," Davie said. "He hasn't been in that situation as much as Anthony was in. It's a work in progress right now with him." 
The lesson? It's still too early to judge a player that has logged less than 14 minutes in two sea­
sons. 
But the comparisons between Watson and Denman arc intriguing. Before suffering a groin injury on Saturday, Watson had been working as the first team inside linebacker, a position Denman held for the past two seasons. In 2000. Denman had a team high 84 tackles, recorded five sacks and was named a second-team Associated Press All-American. 
Like Denman, Watson was known more for his offensive production than defensive domi­nance in high school. During his senior year, Watson ran for 1,220 yards and 15 touchdowns while Denman gained 1,250 yards and rushed for 12 touch­downs in his final season at Rusk High School in Texas. 
Like Denman. Watson knew the probability of being the main ball carrier in college was prac­tically zero. Autry Denson, Notre Dame's all-time leading rusher, was here during Denman's freshman and sophomore sea­sons. When Watson enrolled in the fall of 1999, then-sophomore Tony Fisher and fellow fresh-
sec WATSON/page I4 

============================================================================================-=--­
Men's Lacrosse Baseball Track and Field vs. Air Force vs. Chicago State at Missouri Meet 
·SPORTS 

Today, 4 p.m. Tuesday, 4:05 p.m. Friday, 9 a.m.
•
ATA • 
Women's Lacrosse 

Tennis Softball 
vs. Duke (New Haven, Conn.) 
vs. Calvin vs. Bowling Green 
GLANCE IB· 

Tuesday, 3 p.m. Wednesday, 3:30 p.m. Friday 4 p.m. 





