
a 
It's Oscar time 
Lights out
Russell Crowe is one ofa select group of actors 
The energy crisis in California continues as the 
Thursday
up for an Oscar. L'-;cene offers predictions for 
state tries to find and pay for additional
the Sunday ceremony. 
sources ofpower. 
MARCH 22, 
Scene . pages 16-17 
News . page 9 
2001 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Sai,nt Mary's 
VOL XXXJV NO. 107 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
STUDENT SENATE 



Resolutions pass on eating disorders, student center 
. 
Football ticket directly, they might indirect-

d. 
I •b t· t" ly," said Lewis Hall Senator 


IS rl U _ton Op_ tOnS Luciana Reali. "Either your 
up for d1scuss1on 
By L\URA ROMPF 
Associare N<"W< Editor 
Two extensive projects were presented to the stu­dent senate Wednesday night. 
After working all year, the Gender Helations committee addressed the problem of eating disorders on campus and presented a resolution to include support services in du Lac. the student hand­book. Also, a!'ter working for two consecutive terms, the University Affairs committee submitted a resolution regarding a new student cen­ter. 
The Gender Issues commit­tee's resolution aimed to offer support for the students at Notre Dame who suffer from eating disorders. 
"If students do not suffer from an eating disorder 
roommate, girlfriend or boyfriend or classmate could have an eating disorder and it affects you." 
Reali said the committee has done research and found both the Counseling Center and Office of Residence Life offer support for students affected directly and indirect­ly by eating disorders. The director of the Counseling Center, Patrick Utz, is cur­rently looking into hiring someone full time to deal with the issue. 
The University Affairs com­mittee presented a resolution regarding a new student cen­ter. 
"This is the perfect time to fight for the new student cen­ter," said Welsh Family Hall Senator Bethany Barker. "If we can get it on the building plan now, it is more likely something will get done." 
Barker and the committee presented a letter to the sen­ate which will be sent to Mark Poorman. vice presi­dent for student affairs. The letter includes several recom­mendations as well as the result of a survey the senate conducted last year. The let­ter gives five recommenda­tions for the new student cen­ter -asking for more study space and academic facilities, offices, entertainment venues, eateries, and busi­nesses and student services. 
From the survey conducted last year, the committee dis­covered the current location of Lafortune suits students best, and thus, recommended Lafortune be expanded. 
The resolution was unani­mously passed, and the sen­ate will wait to hear from student affairs. 

In other senate news: 
. Student Body President­Elect Brooke Norton informed the senate of two choices for football ticket dis­tribution for next fall. Students could either receive 
see SENATE/page 4 


Stoner/The Observer Student Body President-Elect Brook Norton presented two options to the Senate for football ticket distribution. A decision will be made next week regarding distribution for the fall 2001 season. 

Photo courtesy of Rona Reodica Notre Dame architecture students traveled to Tecate, Mexico over spring break as part of a ser­vice program. While in Mexico they worked to construct small two-room homes. 


Program adds service to curriculum 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News Editor 
Matt Enquist needed a break -a Spring Break. More than a year a.nd a half of late nights and early mornings in Notre Dame's architecture building had bel{un to make Enquist question his choice of academic programs. "We architecture majors get stuck in Bond Hall. We have really crazy hours," the second­year archie said. 

Search continues in Bolivia for Notre Dame graduate 
ByTIMLOGAN 
Senior StaffWriter 

Rescue officials are still searching for Walter Poirier. a 2000 Notre Dame graduate who disappeared in Bolivia in February. 
Poirier, who is volunteering in the Peace Corps, was last seen around Feb. 22 in La Paz, the nation's capital. He was reported missing on March 5, after he had not been in contact with his supervisor for several weeks, according to Peace Corps spokeswoman Susan Buchanan. Peace Corps volunteers, U. S. State Department officials and Bolivian rescue workers have been looking for him ever since. 
"The search continues, and it's as intense as it was when we started," Poirier Buchanan said. 

Poirier worked developing eco-tourism in the Bolivia's Zongo Valley. He had to trek between sev­eral villages in the mountainous region and_ La Paz. . 
"He was sort of in an unusual situat10n, travehng between three residences and six communities," Buchanan said. "That makes it a little more difficult to track his movements." 
Search teams have been scouring the Valley, looking on mountains and trails where they think Poirier might have traveled. The U.S. Embassy in La Paz is coordinating the effort, with help from the Peace Corps and Bolivian gov-
see POIRIER/page 4 
Then came an opportunity to travel to Mexico during the University's mid-semester break last week, and, according to Enquist, "it was like a God-send." 
The trip to Tecate, Mexico, which lasted from March 9 to 16, was established as a pilot service program for Notre Dame architecture students. Officials in tho architecture school, the Center for Social Goncerns and the Kellogg Institute served as organizers of the project. 
"The curriculum in the architecture program 
see MEXICO/page 4 


page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, March 22, 200 I 
INSIDE COLUMN 

In the mood 

In the midnight hour when the wind stings lungs and makes eyes burn for the want of sun. When the reality sends you gray skies accompanied by snowy days and cold hall­ways.lam in the mood. Putting on another day of shirt. sweater. jacket. gloves to face Myra McGriff brown Mondays. we say, "If only." Praying time will leap a month closer Saint Mary's to the end, we prance 
Editor 

like giddy kids waiting for school bell chimes marking recess time. But 
all the while I am in the mood. 
Some count days until real jobs, real world. business suits completed with dress up shoes as they flip through the memories. past years, and all the while I am in the mood. 
Coasling through Wednesday to Friday we watch as the clock tick tocks closer to sum­mertime. and I am in the mood. 
Listening to Nina Simone I am in the mood for California rays of tangerino warm with ocean blue skies and enough green to make the strongest cry. With dry heat burns skin leaLher hard, a premanent smile appears as I imagine sitting deep in the groove of Highway 99 smelling nothing but cows and hay for miles. 
Yes, I am in the mood for Grandma Mimi's Sunday brunch complete with the world's best macaroni and cheese. When I get there she greets me with a "lley babygal." and the latest happenings in our small town. And when we are done eating she will fill me up with tin foil leftovers. 
As I work through the one o'clock hour, I am in the mood for the quiet house of Coelho Avenue where nothing happens but the occasional door-to-door vacuum sales­man. The house that creaks between the third and fourth step of the entranceway and smells of the same cinnamon potpourri of 10 years ago. 
Walking into stale classroom air I am for­ever in the mood to drive slowly down Demere Hoad with windows rolled down stopping every once and awhile to buy strawberries from fruit stands. And every so often I 'II take a deep breath of nothing but valley air, summer intertwined in alfalfa fields. 
There. all in my imagination. I am think­

ing of only one thing: how long I can stay 
here in this place they call the Central 
Valley. Amongst the Chevy trucks. Wrangler 
jeans dusted with so much hard work and 
cowboy boots. 
In my mind surrounded by rows and rows 

of Tulare land that holds my childhood, I 
am thinking of: so many scraped knees. 
days of bottled Coke and Charleston chews 
melted to the wrapper, street races in jelly 
shoes and Sunday dresses, dance-offs 
between break dancing cousins, beat-boxing 
contest with neighbor kids knowing my 
brother would win, riding on the handlebars 
of my best friend's banana-scat bike, wear­
ing pig tails so tight my face itched. softball 
in my backyard never playing for points. 
and hours of go fish. I am forever in the 
mood ... to go home. 
The uiews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Colleen McCarthy Matt N:mia Myra McGriff Graphics Courtney Boyle Katie McKenna Sports Production Kacie Hughei; Katie McVoy Viewpoint Lab Tech Patrick Orlewski Molly Walsh 

11,c Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday cxccpl during exam and vac..1ion periods. The Observer i, a member of the Associated i'reu. All reproduction nglu, .1.rc rt>erved. 

THIS WEEK AT NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S 
Thursday Friday 
. Lecture: "Local and . Lecture: "Organizational Comparative Advantage," Ethics; A New Frontier for Alan DearorIT, University Bioethics and Medicine," of Michigan. Room C-103, Auditorium, McKenna Hall Hesburgh Center. 4:15 4 p.m. 
p.m. . Concert: Notre Dame Glee Club, Washington Hall. 8 p.m. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME 


Penn State censors Safer Sex Cabaret 
UNIVERSITY PARK, Pa. 

Terrell Jones, vice provost of edu­cationa I equity, recommended Tuesday night that a student group move a planned safe-sex program off-campus or tone down its content to avoid censorship from Pennsylvania State University. 
Penn State Allies, a gay rights group. had planned to sponsor the Safer Sex Cabaret March 31, during Pride Week. in the Forum Building. This would be the second year for the cabaret. 
"I believe the LGBTA organizations need to make the call on this pro­gram. You need to look for a win-win alternative. It's not going to happen the way it's set up," he said, refer­ring to the name of the proposed program and nature of some of the 
TEXAS A&M UNIVERSITY 
Horowitz bashes radical liberalism 
COLLEGE STATION, Texas 
Conservative author and editor David Horowitz railed against liberalism and tackled several contro­versial topics when he spoke at Texas A&M University Tuesday. "I have been on the other side and have seen how much racism consumes the Democratic Party," Horowitz said. "I believe college students have a right to hear all views. and I want to communicate a better way to live." Horowitz, president of the Center for the Study of Popular Culture, is nationally known for his lifelong intel\ectual and political journey from a peace and civil rights activist in the '50s and '60s to a cru­sader against the effects of radical liberalism on mod­ern American culture. Horowitz's speech was spon­sored by the Young Conservatives of Texas A&M. David Rushing, chairman of YCT-A&M and a junior political science major, said Horowitz has seen how the left operates and now speaks on the flaws in its thinking. 

LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather"forecasl for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
H L 

4,Q,~Q.,f.JQ (f ~ d 
&,n,,y pt, Cloudy CICJtJdy

S/JOW1115 T-sfotms Rain FlurriesSnow Ice 
Vi• AfJ.«>OiltfBd P1t1ss GrapmcaNel 

Earlier this year. state lawmakers led by Rep. John Lawless. R­Montgomery, criticized the university for allowing the student-run events Cuntfest and Sex Faire. calling them inappropriate. 
Last week, the Penn State Board of Trustees commended university 


UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN 
Women more affected by alcoholism 
ANN AllBOH, Mich. 
According to a recent study by University of Michigan Public Health professor Kyle Grazier, women suffer greater effects from alcoholism than men. Grazier will be presenting a paper she co-authored with Washington University's Kathleen Bucholz next week at the First World Congress on Women and Mental Health in Berlin. "Women were more severely affected physically by alcoholism than men, showed a higher rate of reduced activity and demonstrated greater adverse social effects as well," Grazier said. The data, including long-term effects of alcoholism, such as the liver disease cirrhosis, is still being analyzed to deter­mine whether women are at a greater risk than men of long term illness from alcoholism. Grazier spent the last 15 years studying mental health and insurance policies in the United States. Grazier and Bucholz's paper is based on a three year. $2 million study funded by the National Institute for Mental Health. 

NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Thursday, March 22. 
70•~ 
80& ~ FRONTS: 
......................... 
COl.0 WARM STATIONAR'I'
O 2001 AocuW..ther, lno. 

@'""'© . . ITil . C2I [J
High J.clw Showon Aatn T-•torm• Flunl" Snow Ice Suriny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
W.A.tfocla.ledPreN 

Atlanta  66  48  Las Vegas  80  57  Portland  67  42  
Baltimore  45  34  Memphis  66  48  Sacramento  73  48  
Boston  38  33  Milwaukee  48  33  St Louis  50  37  
Chicago  52  35  New York  43  33  Tampa  72  54  
Houston  77  57  Philadelphia  43  34  Washington DC 50  37  

Saturday Sunday 
. Movie: "Three Days in .Auto Show: Cavalcade of April," DeBartolo 102. 7 Wheels, Joyce Center 
p.m. Arena.IO a.m. to 5 p.m. 
. Concert: Saint Mary's . Concert: "From Seoul to Steel," South Bend
Patchwork Dance Chamber Singers,Company. Little Theatre. 
O'Laughlin Auditorium, 8p.m. 
7:30 p.m. 

President Graham Spanier for sup­porting student free speech at state appropriation hearings in Harrisburg. 
Organizers of the cabaret said the educational program intends to pre­vent sexua,l disease and unwanted pregnancy by promoting abstinence. 
But the cabaret would also feature a series of student-written, student­performed skits covering topics such as erotic massage, correct condom usage and phone sex. 
Although the members of lesbian. gay, bisexual and transgender groups discussed moving the pro­gram off campus, they weren't sure how to take Jones' advice. 
"We can't even talk about sex now?" said Jennifer Storm, social director for the Lambda Student Alliance. 
------------------oc--_________,______1911________ _ ,......._.,... ,..
,__,7"____ .. _______________ 
Thursday, March 22, 200 I The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Hunger banquet raises awareness 
University design 
By MYRA McGRIFF 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Student Diversity Board (SOB) presented their first Hunger Awareness Banquet, showing students how it is to live in first, second and third world countries. For one meal, SDB demonstrated how people from different regions of the world eat a normal din­ner. 
Students volunb~ered to par­ticipate in the experience not only to support Hunger Awareness week, but also to learn about how people in other counties live. 
"I wanted to heighten my awareness of the situation of those around me," said senior .Julia Malczvnski. 
SDB presented students with compelling statistics, such as for every four people in a first world country there are 30 others existing in poverty. 
SDB also tried to heighten awareness by placing students in one of three worlds by the "Here in the United States we luck of the draw. Each of have enough food but we 

agency changes name 
three groups watched each don't give it to them." other eat. Understanding the causes of 
Students  from  the  first  hunger  
world  representing  such  touched  
CO Un  - 
tries as  

United "I wanted to heighten my States. 
awareness ofthe
Canada 

situation ofthose around 
a n d Japan me." ate a me a L 
Julia Malczynski 
served 

Saint Mary's student
to them. Tho i r m c a l 

By ANDREW THAGARD
around the world 

News Wrirer 
on the major goal SDB wanted to reach by Hunger 

Notre Dame's in-house Awareness Week. 
design agency, which But along with 
redesigned the Food awareness, comes 
Service's 'Grab 'n' Go' bag change. The 
and creates the University's main goal SDB 
view book for perspective sought is not only 
students, recently revamped understanding the 
it's own image. The agency. problem of 
formerly known as hunger but also 
Publications and Graphic 
University and vegetables. Some stu­week the Board itself has 
consisted of a salad, chicken solution. Planning for this 
Communications dents felt it difficult to eat learned some ways to be a 
Design. "We're liketheir meal seeing the third part of the solution. 
the University's
world students eating rice "I have learned about all of 
ad agency for
with their hands as they sat the local outreach we can do," 
print and [now]
on newspaper. said Akmaral Omarova, SDB 
other things.
"Rice isn't enough to sustain president. "We, as a campus 
That's why we
anyone and seeing them sit­need to work on that and look 
changed our
ting there makes me feel hor­at all the food we waste and 
name, we're
rible," said Bonnie Arends. what we can do about that." 
cations," said Carl Magel, the agency's director. Any student who has


Glee Club ready for spring concert 
thumbed through the under­
SP"cial to The Observer 
The Notre Dame Glee Club will perform it's annual spring concert March 22 and 23 at 8 
p.m. in Washington Hall at Notre Dame. 
The March 22 concert is free and open to the public. There will be a $3 charge for the March 23 performance. Tickets are available in LaFortune. 
The Glee Club's repertoire includes plainsong, Renaissance polyphony, music from romantic and contemporary composers. American folk­songs and spirituals and traditional Notre Dame songs. 
Services, is now
making Saint 

called
Mary's part of the 

doing more than just publi­
The graphics for Notre Dame's new police car and the stripe color pattern on the University's plane are just two examples of the agency's expanded venue of services. 
"It's mainly in the area of identity design and logos," Magel said, referring to the agency's expanded line of work that justified the name change. 
The agency's new name is 

"We're like the University's ad agency for print and [now] other things." 
Carl Magel University Communications Design director 
inspired by a desire to better inform t h e i r 
C U S • 
tome rs about t h e i r line of b u s i ­ness. 
"We wanted to help our clients think differently about what we do •-we design communications,"·. Magel said. 
Communications Design, housed in Grace Hall, typi­cally tackles up to 400 jobs a year entirely for University academic and administrative programs, ,including the logos for Food Service's restaurants. The agency, founded in 1974, employs eight people and works with seven printing operations. 

Web site at httpJ/www.nd.edu/-congoers. 

Jury deliberates in Arkansas murder case 
In its 85th year, the Glee Club is an SO-mem­ber male chorus that has performed in more than 20 states, Canada, Israel, and throughout Europe, including at St. Peter's Basilica in Rome, Christchurch Cathedral in Dublin and Notre Dame Cathedral in Paris. 
Daniel Stowe is in his seventh year as conduc­tor of the Glee Club. He also conducts the Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra and Collegium Musicum and is a member of the plainchant ensemble Schola Musicorum." 
For more information on the Glee Club con­certs. call 631-6201 or visit the concert series graduate bulletin of informa­tion or stopped to look at a banner hanging over Washington Hall is familiar with the agency's work. However University Communications Design's impact on campus is increas­ing as they expand out from written publications to encompass other designs. 

Associated Press 
BENTONVILLE, Ark. 
A jury began deliberating Wednesday in the case against a man charged with murder and rape in the death of a 13-year-old boy who suffocated during a sex­ual bondage session. 
The jurors took piles of evidence into the jury room, including notes, a bloody pil­low, duct tape and under­wear that prosecutors said was stuffed into Jesse Dirkhising's mouth at a gay couple's apartment. 
Joshua Macabe Brown, 23, could face the death penalty if convicted of murder. 
Prosecutor Bob Balfe said in his closing argument that logic shows that the boy was not a willing participant in the sexual bondage. 
.Jesse was allegedly drugged, bound, raped and sodomized in 1999 at the apartment Brown shared with his lover, Davis Don Carpenter, 39. Prosecutors said the boy suffocated because of the drugs and the way he was trussed up and strapped down to Brown's bed. 
The jurors were sent home Wfldnesday night after reaching a unanimous ver­dict on one count. They were split 10-2 on another count, and the judge asked them to continue deliberating Thursday. It was unclear whether they were unani­mous on the rape or murder charge, and whether they had found Brown innocent or guilty. ­
Carpenter's trial is set to start May 7. He, too. could face the death penalty. 
Brown has admitted bind­ing and gagging the boy and sexually penetrating him with a variety of objects, but defense attorney Louis Lim said Brown is guilty of noth­ing more than statutory rape and manslaughter. 
"I think we can all agree that .Josh didn't knowingly cause his death," Lim said. "This is pointing to negli­gence." 
From the men's apartment. police seized documents that were blown up to poster size for the prosecution's closing argument. A diagram used stick figures showing how to bind a child, and a letter included the line: "Make him take those drugs." 
.Judge David Clinger had ruled the notes admissible last week, calling them "a blueprint for child rape." 
Earlier Wednesday, the defense rested its case after a witness said Brown was dominated by his lover. 
"Mr. Brown was totally dominated by Mr. Carpenter," said Maryanna Aragon, who said Carpenter had been her family's hair­dresser. Brown "was a very mixed-up kid whu got lost in the shuffle." 

Recycle The Observer. 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 22, 200l 



Senate 
continued from page 1 
their ticket applications before leaving school this spring and be responsible for gathering their checks and applications into groups and mailing them in between July 1 and August 
1. Or there could be a lottery in the fall. 
Norton said because the tick­et office has 40,000 alumni ticket applications. it would be impossible for them to receive 10,000 student applications at the end of the spring term. She added that if there is a lottery this year. students could plan to receive their tickets through the mail next year. 
Norton said she is trying to gather student opinion on lhe matter and anyone with a con­cern can contact her before the dBcision is made early next week. 
. 
Chief of Staff Jay Smith info rnrnd the senate that the OlTicu of the President is plan­ning "Student Appreciation Day" for Wednesday. Smith also told the senate lhat Jonathan Jorissen will be nomi­nated for the Chief of Staff posi­tion for the next administra­tion. 

. 
Current Judicial Council President Tony Wagner nomi­nated Tim Jarotkiewicz for the position in the upcoming term. Jarotkiewicz will be up for for­mal approval at the senate's next meeting. 

. 
The senate unanimously approved the student business Board Managers. except Melissa Gormley, who will step down to assistant manager while Jeff Cussin moves to manager of Adworks. Gormley and Cussin are expected to be approved next week. Gormley took the position of Hall Presidents Council co-chair and choose not to hold both posi­tions. 




Mexico 
continued from page 1 
is very rigorous," said fifth­year major Rona Reodica, who helped coordinate the project. "Sometimes it's hard for stu­dents to take advantage of as many opportunities as they might like." 
Thirteen students partic­ipated in the service venture, building houses for local fami­lies Tecate, a bordertown an hour south of San Diego in Baja, California. For a week, the students split into pairs. working at scattered Tecate sites with other service groups from American churches and high schools. 
The endeavor provided stu• dents the chance to blend architecture skills with volun­teer efforts. Enquist said work at his site included leveling ground, pouring and mixing concrete and building a foun­dation. 
In general, students worked to construct small two-room houses from 7:30 a.m. to 5 p.m., Reodica said. 
"The work was not hard, and many of the high school students on our sites did a large part of the building," she said. "What I enjoyed most was getting to work side by side with the families whose homes we were build­ing." 
Enquist shared Reodica's enthusiasm. 
"It was really rewarding to go down and experience a dif­ferent culture. We were able to share these tremendous 
to find any tangible infor­mation about him,"


Poirier 
Buchanan said. Peace Corps volunteers

continued from page 1 
receive three months of ernment organizations. intensive training in lan­
Because of Poirier's trav­guage and cultural skills el schedule and the remote­needed to live in their ness of some of his posts, country of placement. t h e r e They are 
have in also trained
'They haven't been able 
the past in safety and b e e n to find any tangible security 
measures,

t W O • information about him ... w e e k 
Buchanan stretches 
said. 

Susan Buchanan

when no While no o n e Peace Corps Volunteer one has seen w ·o u I ct Spokeswoman Poirier for h e a r nearly a f r o m month, the him, Buchanan said. But Peace Corps 
this has gone on longer is still optimistic that he than that, and she said will turn up. searchers do not have any "We remain hopeful that good leads on his where­he's there in Bolivia and abouts. that he's safe," Buchanan "They haven't been able said. 
blessings we've been given." 
The students said the trip also served as a bonding opportunity for them. 
Reodica said students were introduced to the dynamics of group wok and friendship not only while working on site but also while braving the Mexican outdoors. 
Although a local mission provided food for volunteers. the students were responsible for their own sleeping arrangements. Camping out ­
living what Rcodica called the "rustic lifestyle" -proved a learning experience for the group. 
"You wouldn't think it, but it was actually really cold," Reodica said of the Baja tem­peratures that often dip around 30 degrees at night. "Everyone handled it well. 
though. We figured that fami­lies there face those situations every day. so we tried to adjust." 
Reodica said she hopes to see the Tecate trip become an annual offering. 
She graduates in May, and Enquist will spend the 2001­2002 academic year in Rome. but both said they would like to see increased participation in the project in the future. 
"I hope we have the leader­ship. organization and partic­ipation so that we can contin­ue this program in the years to come." Enquist said. "In the beginning, we didn't have a clear idea of what we'd be doing, but it turned out to be a perfect experience." 
A perfpect break from the usual routine in Bond Hall. 



CHEERLEADER 
\mo~ UU an first (ldss ateppers

& LEPRE CHA UN 
~resent the 1st Rnnua/
Tryout Information Meeting Serious candidates should pick up forms to be completed (prior to this meeting) at the reception desk in the Joyce Center above Gate 3. 
5:30 pm March 26, 2001 in Gym 2 of the Joyce Center 

Aow.RKS 7 • 3 o P M Washington Hall 








ATION 
Thursday, March 22, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Group slams Russia over Chechnya: 
;\ leading human rights group on Wednesday accused the Hussian military of responsibility for a wave of disappearances, alleged torture and executions of civilians in Chechnya. The accusations by New York-based Human Rights Watch follow the discovery last month of dozens of bodies bearing execution-style wounds near Russia's main military base at Khankala. just outside the Chechen capital. 

Palestinian killed in Gaza shelling: 
Israeli forces shelled a post manned by Palestinian leader Vasser Arafat's presidential guard unit, killing a police officer Wednesday, a security oflicial said. The Israeli military, how­ever. said Arafat's elite police unit, Force 17 ­which Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon accuses of terrorism -was its target. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
GAO finds gun check loopholes: 
Armed with fake IDs, undercover congressional investigators sailed through mandatory back­ground checks and bought guns from licensed dealers in five states, lawmakers were told Wednesday. The background check system can detPrminc if a potential gun buyer has a crimi­nal history, but there is no safeguard to verify whether the name or identification being used by the buyer is valid. the General Accounting Office investigation found. 


Tax cut addresses marriage penalty: 
House Republicans queued up legislation Wednesday to alleviate the income I.ax mar­riage penalty and begin raising the $500 child credit immediately at a cost of nearly $400 bi!• lion over 10 years. It sparked renewed criticism frorn Democrats that tax cuts will crowd out other priorities. Hep. Bill Thomas, chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, said the panel would consider the measure Thursday and would have it before the House for a vote next week. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Judge grants visitation: A judge has granted a woman accused of causing a head-on crash that killed seven people visitation privi­leges with three of her five surviving children. Marion County juvenile court Judge James Payne granted the visitation, which will take place at the Morgan County Jail, where Judy Kirby has been held since her arrest last April. Prosecutors allege that Kirby, 32, tried to com­mit suicide on March 25, 2000, by intentionally driving the wrong way on Indiana 67 for almost two miles and crashing her car into an oncom­ing van. 
Market Watch 3/21 

Dow -233.76
9,487.00 

]~ Composit, Same: Volume: 209 NIA 
.
~ • 

AMEX:  861,11  -15.11  
NASDAQ:I NYSE:  17830.23 5 5.14  -27.21 -11.40  
S&P 500:  1,122.14  -20.48  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +1.30 -0.25 19.31 NASDAQ 100 SHAR (QQQ) +0.00 +0.00 40.35 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW)+5.78 +1.01 18.38 INTEL CORP (INTC) +3.80 +0.94 25.56 MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) +4.99 -2.63 50.06 
MACEDONIA 


, . ,.,,. , 

A soldier of the Yugoslav Army guards the area at the border of the buffer zone near the southern Serbian town Medvedje, close to Kosovo Wednesday as Ethnic Albanian children return from school. 



Rebels offer unlimited ceasefire 
Associated Press 

SHIPKOVICA 
Macedonia's president declared Wednesday that his government would "neutralize and elimi­nate"ethnic Albanian rebels, spurning the insur­gents' offer of a cease-fire as an army deadline for their surrender expired. 
The midnight deadline passed with no immediate sign of the military's gov­ernment's threatened all­out assault. But in a brief statement after meeting with his to officials, President Boris Trajkovski issued a brief statement saying: "It is necessary to neutralize and eliminate the extremists." 
"It is necessary that the Macedonian army take control of the Macedonian side of the border ,"he said. Negotiations for a peaceful settlement were still possi­ble, he said, but only through parliament and other established institu­tions, and not directly with the rebels. 
In an ultimatum it laid down Tuesday night, the army had given the rebels 24 hours to surrender completely or leave the country, or face an all-out counteroffensive. 
Before the rebels' offer to lay down their arms and talk peace, government spokesman Antonio Milososki delivered a stern warning that the govern­ment had "nothing more to say to the terrorists"and it was sticking to iis mid­night deadline. 
The rebel concession was offered by Ali Ahmeti, the political head of the National Liberation Army, in a taped television broadcast in neighboring Kosovo. 
"We, the general staff of the National Liberation Army, announce a unilat­eral cease fire and we open the road for dialogue so heads can cool down and to find the best sohi­tion,"Ahmeti said. 
He said the cease-fire was open-ended, but warned that in case of attack the more than four­week struggle would con­tinue. 
"In case our positions are threatened by our opponents, then all our forces will be on the move and the conflict would widen,"he said. "We have repeated constantly and will repeat again that we are for dialogue. We are not for a war that would create rivers of blood between two nations, because the reason for dialogue would be lost in that case." 

Penalties stiff en for ecstasy sales 
enhance guideline penalties Tuesday makes ecstasy, on a per-dose basis,
Atsociated Press 

for those peddling large quantities of five times more serious to possess or WASHINGTON the drug, which sells for $10 to $45 sell than heroin and is excessive for a 
Ecstasy, a drug once used primarily per pill on the street. drug that is neither as harmful nor as at nightclubs, has expanded beyond Under temporary new guidelines, addictive as heroin or cocaine. Some the club scene and is being sold at which federal judges must follow, medical researchers also opposed the · high schools, on the street and even people the commission would consid­new guidelines. at coffee shops in some cities, the er local distributors -those caught "This is a wholly political act, not White House drug policy office said selling 800 pills -would be sen­one based on scientific evidence," Wednesday. tenced to more than 6 years in jail. said Edward Mallett, president of the 
The availability of ecstasy increased That's triple the time they would National Association of Criminal dramatically, and more blacks and have gotten under previous guide­Defense Lawyers. Hispanics are using the drug. the lines. But the chairwoman of the commis· agency said in its biannual report that The commission was responding to sion told senators Wednesday at a chronicles trends in drug use. a congressional mandate to stiffen hearing on narcotics that ecstasy has 
The ecstasy problem prompted the penalties for ecstasy trafficking. serious and possibly long-term harm­
U.S. Sentencing Commission to Defense lawyers said the change ful affects. 

Thursday, March 22, 2001

page 6 The Observer . NEWS 
EVERY WEDNESDAY 

'>'> gou--n-t BJ;NO'g B\GGt;.GT PA~Y<< 222 S. MICHIGAN• SOUTH BEND• 219.234.5200 
11 COVER (WITH COLLEGE ID, MUST BE 21} AND LOTS OF OTHER STUFF FOR A BUCK, TOO. 
CAI.L THE HE.AlmAND CONC£Rl & EVlNT UNE 219.251.2568•MORE PICTURES@ WWW,HEARIIANDSOUTHBEN0.COM 
get your 




-et. 
Steaks your consuming passion? Then fill up on these sizzlers: Londonbroil 113.991, t·bone (17.991 or our specialty, 12oz. of USDA prime New York strip ( 14 99). Lighter options, too! 
NOW OPEN ioR LATE Nl6HT DININ6 iRIDAY &SATURDAY 
222 S MICHIGAN SOUTH BEND 
219-234-5200 

Symposium to explore diversity on campus 
Special co The Observer 

Herman Blake and Emily Moore, cofoundcrs of Scholars for Educational Excellence and Diversity, Inc., ·and facul• ty members at Iowa State University, will lead a symposium on campus diversity on March 22 and 23 Notre Dame. 
The symposium, "Conceptualizing Diversity in Higher Education for a New Millnnnium," has been organized by Notre Dame's African and African-1\merican Studies Program and is free and open to the public. 
Blake and Moore, a husband and wife tnam with a combi"ned 50 years of expe­rience in university teaching,. research and administration. will coordinate workshops and forums for students, fac­ulty and staff on a wide variety of topics rnlated to diversity on college and uni­vc rsitiy campuses in general and at Notre Dame in particular. 
Highlighting the symposium will be two presentations by Blake and Moore on March 22 in thtl McKenna Hall auditori­um, the first, titled "Diversity and Educational Formation of Leaders in the Emerging Global Economy," at 3:30 p.m.. and the second, titled "Conceptualizing Diversity in lligher Education for a New Millennium: Defining Terms, Determining Goals, and Delimiting Strategies," at 7 p.m. 
Other symposium events and activities include: 
. An undergraduate student forum on 

campus concerns and issues from 12 p.m.-2 p.m. Thursday in the dining room of McKenna Hall 
. 
A working breakfast on issues relat­ed te campus climate, recruitment and retention, academic affairs and curricu­lum from 8:30-10:30 a.m. at the Cafe de Grasta in Grace Hall 

. 
A lunch session on the roles of administrators, departments, programs, centers and institutes in furthering the diversity agenda at Notre Dame from 12 p.m.-1:30 p.m. in Hoom 103 of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies 

. 
A workshop for graduate students on diversity in teaching. research and pro­fessional development from 2-3:30 p.m. in Room 103 of the Hesburgh Center 

. 
A informal discussion on diversity as it relates to the Catholic identity and mis• sion of Notre Dame from 4-5 p.m. in Room 103 of the Hesburgh Center 


. A closing prayer service from 5:15­
5:45 p.m. in Room 103 of the Hesburgh Center 
Blake has been the director of the African American Studies Department and a professor of sociology, educational leadership, and policy studies at Iowa State since 1998. He previously served as vice chancellor for undergraduate educa­tion at Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis, the president of Tougaloo (Miss.) College and the provost of the University of California, Santa Cruz. In addition to his research on 
minority students in higher education. he 
also studies service learning initiatives, 
!'acuity and staff development, and urban 
militants. 
Moore, a professor of educational lead­ership and policy studies at Iowa State, previously was vice president for acade­mic affairs and dean of the faculty at Concordia University in St. Paul, Minn., and dean of teacher education and inter­im academic dean at Concordia College in Ann Arbor, Mich. Her current research interests inr.lude health educa­tion intervention relative to fHV/AfDS in sub-Saharan Africa, China (Hong Kong) and rural and urban cities in North America; health behaviors among the black elderly in South Carolina; spiritual­ity; and academic and administrative mobility of women and people of color in higher education administration. 
The couple's Scholars for Educational Excellence and Diversity, Inc., is a con­sulting firm that operates on the princi­ple that educational excellence and racial divei;sity are intrinsil:ally linked. 
Joining the African and African­American Studies Program as sponsors for the symposium are Notre Dame's Cender Studies Program, Graduate School, Institute for Latino Studies, Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts, Kaneb Center for Teaching and Learning, Mendoza College of Business, Multicultural Student Programs and Services, offices of the president and provost, and Department ofTheology. 
Comair to 
cancel some flights 
Associated· Press 
HEBRON. Ky. 
Comair, the nation's second­
largest regional airline, said 
Wednesday it will cancel some 
llighL'i to prepare !'or the possibili­
ty of a pilots strike early next 
week. 
Comair officials said changes in the flight schedule would begin Thursday. Mediated talks between Comair and the pilots union, the Air Linc Pilots Association, were to resume Friday in Washington. 
Comair pilots have rejected the company's contract offer and could strike as early as Monday if no agreement is reached. 
Comair has said it would sus­pend all flight operations but keep about 4,000 other employees at work in the event of' a strike. 
Comair has 323 daily flights at Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky International Airport, where it is based. The airline and its parent company, Delta Air Lines, account for 90 percent or the airport's flights. 
Comair, which also has a hub in Orlando, Fla., has flights to 95 cities in the United States, Canada, Mexico and the Bahamas. It serves more than 8 million pas­sengers annually. 
Comair said it would provide customers with transportation on other airlines. 

iRIDAYS-LENT SPECIAL 

All-You-Can-Eat Fish Fry
Lake Perch, fries & coleslaw, 8. 99 
Th urs<lay, March 22, 200 I 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 7 


The Office of Student Affairs and Campus Ministry extend a heartfelt invitation to join in celebrating the life of Conor Murphy 
Memorial Mass 
Thursday, March 22, 2001 5:15pm Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Rev. Edward Malloy, C.S.C., Presider Rev. James Lies, C.S.C., Homilist 
·combi1"1ed choirs of the Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
-1 
I 
[ 
t page 8 The Observer . NEWS Thursday, March 22, 2001 
U.N. Secretary General to seek second term 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS 

It's tho worst-kept secret at the United Nations: Sccrntary-(;encral Kofi Annan has decided Lo seek another tivn-ynar term. 
A ft e r 
months of specula­tion, he is nxpectcd to makn it official at a ill'WS 
con(er-­
1\ 11 'C C 


Thursday, Annan c.!iµlomats said. 
When asked Wednesday about the topi.c for the press briefing, U.N. spokesman Fred Eckhard noted that it had been three months since Annan last held a news con­ference -and that he had said he would announce whether he would pursue a sec_ond term by-tho end of 
Matrch\ ,I:·, . 
"So 1y1rn mi;ght a.nticipat~ he would have something to say about that tomorrow," Eckhard said. 
Annan has already informed a number of ambassadors that he will be a candidate, several diplo­mats said, on condition of anonymity. 
Last week, the secretary­general, who is from Ghana, got a strong endorsement from the 53-nation African group at the United Nations, 
\AflMl"l fl~doed t apti@ln
f4~fftm•J tre dettit1:ls to run. If Annan seeks a second 
term as expected, the two key questions will be whether Asian nations will also submit a candidate and who will get the support of the five veto-wielding per­manent members of the Security Council -the United States, Hussia, China, Britain and Prance. 
By tradition, the secre­tary-general's job rotates every 10 years by region, and it's now Asia's turn to propose a candidate. 
But Africa's IO-year term was split after the United States successfully lobbied to prevent Annan's prede­cessor, Boutros Boutros­Gha.li of Egypt, from taking a second term. And a quiet campaign has been under way for months lo pressure Annan to stay in the job for another five years, because he is highly regarded by many nations. 
Before stepping down in January, lJ.S. Ambassador Richard Holbrooke called An·nan "ari international rock siar'. of' diplomacy" and said he was the best secre­tary-general in the 55-year history of the United Nations, a view echoed by several other key countries. 
Annan, who celebrates his 63rd birthday on April 8, is the seventh secretary-gener­al and the first to be elected from the ranks of United Nations staff. He was the 
U.N. undersecretary-general for peacekeeping when he was tapped for the top job. His current term expires Dec. 31. 

·You are reading th~ 1, .sociated Collegiate V~ 
National Newspaper .of<t~,w 

theYear. 



Chinese police detain U.S. scholar 
~oci;atc:d Press 
BEIJING 

A Chinese-born scholar from American University in Washington has been detained by Chinese police for nearly six weeks, and her husband and 5­vear-old son were held sepa­rately for nearly a month before being reunited and allowed to leave China, a human rights group said Wednesday. 
Gao Zhan was picked up Feb. 11 at the Beijing airport with her husband and son as they were leaving after a family visit, Human Rights in China said. Her husband, Xue Donghua, and son were released 26 days later and returned to the United States. 
Word of Cao's detention came as President Bush was prepar­ing to meet this week with Chinese Vice Premier Qian him why his wife was detained. He said police refused to let him see their son, Andrew, unless he provided damaging informa­tion about her. 
"J completely believe that my wife is innocent," Xue was quoted as say­

Stanford University  "I completely believe that  ing The  U.S.  
expert on China's mili­ my wife is innocent."  Embassy doclirwd com­ 
tary was  who arrest­ Xue Zhan  mnnt, privacy  citing laws.  
ed in 1998  husband of detained scholar  But  a  
was  sen­ spoknsman said  
tenced last  the  human  
month to 10  rights group's  

years in prison on espionage account was consistt\nt with its charges. information. 
In a statement. released by Gao's son is a U.S. citiz<in, but lluman Bights in China, Gao's authorities failed to inform tlw husband said police questioned embassy of his detention as him repeatedly about her required by tn~aty. according research and two visits she lluman Rights in China. made to rival Taiwan. Chinr,sc police refused to com­
Xue said police refused to tell ment. 

Infected cows found in Netherlands 
Associated Pres; 
AMSTERDAM. Netherlands 
Far from being contained, the foot-and­mouth disease that has devastated cattle herds in Britain gained ground on the European conti­nent, with the Netherlands on Wednesday con­firming its first cases. 
The announcement by the Dutch agriculture minister that four contaminated cows were detected Wednesday, and the near certainty that hundreds of goats had been infected, quashed hopes that the feared livestock disease could be bottled up in a small corner of France, the only other place in continental Europe where it has been identified. 
The European Union in Brussels quickly imposed a ban on livestock exports from the Netherlands and on exports of meat and animal products from four Dutch provinces. 
Gunshots from the rifles of government veteri­narians rang out across snowy fields at a north­eastern farm where dozens of animals were killed after coming into contact with infected animals. Police set up roadblocks to isolate the farm near Oosterwolde and two others 12 miles east, near the villages of 01st and Oene, where the disease was detected. 
About 17,000 animals were to be destroyed in farms within a 1,000-yard radius of the three farms, the Agriculture Ministry said. 
Although not dangerous to humans, foot-and­mouth is deadly for livestock and highly conta­gious, capable of being spread even by the wind. 
The setback in the Netherlands came after the Frerich Agriculture Ministry said Tuesday that 224 herds had been tested but no new cases had been reported since last week. 
Qichen. Human Rights in China appealed to Bush to ask Qian to have Gao released. 
Gao, a political scientist, is the third Chinese-born researcher in as many years to be detained during a visit home. A 






Go Irish! 
'0:­

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION You can bank on u~ to be better 
219/239-6611 • www.ndfcu.org 
lud~pcndent of the University 



Thursday, March 22, 2001 The Observer . CALIFORNIA ENERGY CRISIS page 9 
Power sends state into IDoney crunch 
• State controller says power-buying is eating up budget surplus 
Associated Press 
SACRAMENTO. Calif. 

The energy crunch that brought two days of rolling blackouts this week also imperils California's finan­cial health, the state controller said Wednesday. 
Controllor Kathleen Connell said the state's power-buying on behalf of two strapped utilities ts gutting its budget surplus. Since the state start­ed making emergency power buys in January. the surplus has fallen from $8.5 billion to about $3.2 billion, she said. 
California has been spending about $45 million a day -$4.2 billion since January -to purchase power for Pacific Gas and Electric Co. and Southern California Edison. Both util­ities, the state's largest, have hAen cut off by electricity wholesalers because their credit is almost worth­less. 
Managers of the state power grid imposed rolling blackouts across the state Monday and Tuesday because the power supply did not meet demand. Wednesday. cooling temper­atures and the completion of repairs at several power plants allowed the state to avoid blackouts. 
Standard & Poor's has put the state on a credit watch due to its power purchases and chastised Gov. Gray Davis, the Legislature and state regu­lators for not taking more aggressive steps to make sure the utilities can pay their bills. 
Edison and PG&E say they are nearly $14 billion in debt due to soar­ing wholesale power costs. The state's deregulation law blocks them from recovering the costs from cus­tomers. 
Connell ordered an audit of the state's power-buying, saying Davis is withholding key financial information from her office and the Legislature. 
She said she would refuse to trans­fer $5.6 bil­lion into a 
Sandy Harrison, spokesman for the state Department of Finance, and Keely Bosler. of the Legislative Analyst's Office, said such transfers are routine and required by law. They put the state's budget surplus at $5.6 billion. 
"The law says she has to do it The law doAs not give her the power to demand that kind of audit informa­tion," Harrison said. 
Harrison said the state's budget isn't in danger because it will be repaid with the revenue bonds. 
Connell's criticism of Davis, a fellow Democrat. won support from Assembly Republicans and Secretary 
of State Bill Jones, a 
Republican who may

"Political grandstanding 
"rainy day challenge Davis next 
fund" she doesn't generate one more year. said was set kilowatt ofenergy for Jones said he wants up to impress to announce his own
California in this time of
Wall Street plan to solve the as the state emergency." state's energy woes, prepares to but can't unless Davis issue $10 bil-releases more finan­
Steve Mavlgl lo
1ion in rev­cial details. 
Spokesman for Governor Gray Davis
enue bonds Davis spokesman 
to cover its power buys. Transferring the money would leave the state gen­eral fund $2.4 billion in debt, Connell said. 
She called the scope of the pro­posed transfer unprecedented and said it amounted to a "shell game" that disguises the power purchases' effect on the state budget. 
Steve Maviglio dis­
missed the criticism. 

"Political grand­standing doesn't generate one more kilowatt of energy for California in this time of emergency," he said. 
Maviglio said the administration has released the financial information it can without jeopardizing negotia­tions for long-term power contracts with wholesalers. 

Cheney:US must generate 
more energy 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Vice President Dick Cheney warned Wednesday that the United States must gen­erate more of its own energy or the country risks power shortages like those in California, but on a national scale. 
Cheney cited estimates that the United States will need 1.300 new power plants over the next 20 years -roughly 65 each year ­to have adequate generating capacity. Plus, he said, those plants will need other infra­structure, such as a means of obtaining the coal or gas and transmission lines. 
"Our infrastructure in the energy area is very limited," Cheney told MSNBC's "Hardball." "It's very important we get on with this business of making certain we've got enough energy in the future or we will find that the problems in California today are in fact national in scope and affect all parts of the country." 
As it is, Cheney said, California's problems are spreading into surrounding states partly because of a Clinton administration order for utilities in those states to sell power to California. 
"We've got some serious problems there," Cheney said. "We've got to find ways to either increase the supply of energy or reduce the demand for energy.... This is not something we got into overnight, and we're not going to get out ofit overnight." 
Cheney, chairman of the president's energy task force, was echoing concerns voiced earli­er this week by Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham, who said a failure to address ener­gy supply problems stands to threaten eco­nomic prosperitY-r.i; ,1 , ? , • ,. vii ,,11• t.; •111, lf!cn l 
-;.~ n,. .(" .. j• f"\ r, ..,n'½ ..· { 
ll>J 1J,14,1uJ c.bi, I' T 






and Frank O'Malley Awards. 
The· Irish Clover Award recognizes a faculty/staff person for outstanding service to the Notre Dame Student Body. 
The Frank O'Malley Award is presented to a faculty member for their outstanding contribution to the Notre Dame Student Body. 
Help Recognize Outstanding Service to the Notre Dame Student Body. Pick-up a nomination form. 
Nominations are due March 23 by 3pm in the Student Government Office. 203 LaFortune. 



page 10 The Observer . NEWS Thursday, March 22, 200 I 

Powell Ineets with China's deputy priIDe Ininister Qian 
U.S. weapons sales to Taiwan. the State Department has said it would change from a peaceful difference were likely to be dis­
Associated Press 
Powell mentioned Taiwan only is long-standing U.S. policy not approach to reunification to a cussed, including human rights in passing, expressing hope that to consult with China on U.S. military approach." and the administration's plansWASI-IINGTON China and Taiwan can expand arms sales policy toward the Asked if that meant immediate to deploy a missile dcl'onse sys­While acknowledging differ­
trade ties once they gain mem­island. Qian will meet with military action against Taiwan, tem. 
ences, Secretary of Slate Colin bership in the World trade President Bush on Thursday. he said only, "It all depends on On a separate issue, Boucher
Powell and Chinese Deputy 
Organization. Qian did not men­On Tuesday. Qian warned that the circumstances." called for the immediat11 rnlease
Prime Minister Qian Qichen 
tion Taiwan. Chinese-American relations State Department spokesman of Gao Zhan, a Chineso-born
sLressnd 
Powell said, "We recognize would suffer a "very serious" Hichard Boucher, responding to American University professor
positive 
that we disagree on important setback if Taiwan receives per­the comment on Wednesday, 
who was picked up at Beijing

aspects of 
issues, but I believe the best miss ion to said U.S. 
airport on Feb. 11 with her hus­

u ' s ' • 
approach in a relationship such buy the policy all
Chinese 
"We recognize that we disagree band and 5-year old son. 
as ours is to have candid talks destroyers. along has
relations as Her husband, Xue Donghua,
on every aspect of our agree­Taiwan on important issues, but I been in
they met and son were held separately
ment and disagreement." wants to support
believe the best approach ... is
Wednesday for 26 days before being allowed 
Qian said the United States buy the ves­of peace­
night. for to have candid talks on every to return to the United States. 
and China "undeniably have dis­sels but the ful reso­
wide-rang-Gao's.son is a U.S. citizen, but
agreements" but that the rela­administra­aspect ofour agreement and lution.
ing discus-Powell authorities failed to inform the
tionship "can have healthy, tion has "We've
disagreement."

sions. steady growth" if they address offered no always U.S. Embassy of his detention as 
Both offi­their problems with vision. hint as to said that required by treaty, said a 
cials, meeting with reporters 
At issue over Taiwan is the whether the Colin Powell we would human rights group, Human bcl'orc their talks, said they prospective sale to the island of request will Secretary of State see a Hights in China. 
hoped to expand ties and noted four U.S. destroyers with highly b c resort to It quoted Xue as saying histhat links between them have a sophisticated radar equipment. approved. anything son was traumatized by being
direct bearing on the lives of 
Going into his meeting with U.S. policy is to meet Taiwan's other than peaceful means as held separately from his par­millions around the world. 
Qian, it was not clear whether legitimate defense needs. something of grave concern to ents.
Qian arrived here earlier 
Powell was prepared to address If the sale is authorized, Qian us," he said. Boucher said he could not dis­
Wednesday after expressing 
the issue in any depth because said "the essence of the issue Boucher said other areas of 
cuss the case.

deep concern over prospective 

House panel OKs fetal-harm bill 
states already have laws to A day earlier, Democrats 
Associated Press 
punish violence against fetus­began an effort to reverse a es. decision by President Bush toWASHINGTON 
"This is not about abortion bar U.S. aid to international 
A bill that would make it a 

rights or Roe v. Wade," said groups that use their own
crime to harm a fetus during a Rep. Lindsey Graham, H-S.C., money to support abortion
violent crime took an initial 
the meas·ure's sponsor. He activities. 
step toward a I-louse vote noted that the House voted Democrats said they plannedWednesday, gaining approval 
overwhelmingly last year to to use a 1996 law known as 
by a key subcommittee. 
prohibit states from executing the Congressional Review Act 
llepublicans said the mea­

a pregnant woman. in that effort. 
sure was..a way to get tough on 
"Violent criminals should The legislation permits the violent criminals. Democrats face the harshest possible con­House and Senate to pass leg­said it was really about abor­sequences when they harm islation rejecting regulationstion. 
these innocent children," said issued by federal departmentsThe Democrats say the bill Rep. Steve Chabot, R-Ohio, and agencies. 

essentially would establish a 
chairman of the Judiciary

fetus as a person -an idea Committee's subcommittee on 
rejected by the U.S. Supreme the Constitution. 
Court in the l{oe v. Wade deci­The bill, approved by voice sion legalizing abortion. 
vote in the subcommittee, is 
"This bill offers no additional 
likely to clear the House,protection !'or pregnant 

which passed a similar mea­women." said Rep. Bobby sure last year by a 254-172 
Scott, D-Va. "This bill serves vote. But its prospects are no purposr. other than to uncertain in the Senate, where engage members in a discus­Hepublicans and Democrats sion of when life begins." are evenly divided. 
llepublicans said the bill The bill is just the latest vol­would punish violent crimi­ley in the ongoing debate over 

nals, and they said two dozen abortion. 
Attention: ND, SMC, HCC Students, Faculty, and Staff 
~ 
5• 



SIGNUPS 
Monday, March 19-Wednesday, March 28 Cost: $15 
WHEN and WHERE: 11:00--2:00 pm and 5:00--8:00 pm l ST FLOOR LAFON BY ELEVATOR 

Check out our website and sponsors: 
www.nd.edu/-bkstri 

"Our calling is to serve the Lord Jesus in mission not as independent individuals but as a brotherhood." 
(Constitutions of the Congregation of Holy Cross, IV.33) 
ANSWER :W THECALL \(!)/ 

www.nd.edu/-vocation 


• cc u UCL~-­
-,"\--,r,-"'rT: , '• 0 r \.1r.q
'. 

' 
Thursday, March 22, 2001 The Observer . BUSINESS NEWS page 11 

Analysts question power of the Fed 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The Federal Reserve, with three reductions in interest rates, is jolting monetary policy more aggressively than at any other time since the early 1980s. 
But Wall Street is still plung­ing and dragging down con­SL1mer con­fidence, even as the 


Fed makes Greenspan mortgages and other consumer loans more attractive. 
The economic force~ at work llave raised new rears that the country's record economic expansion. which celebrates its 10th birthday this month, could topple into a recession despite the Fed's efforts. 
"The Fed lowering interest rates is powerful medicine, but it takes nine to 12 months to l'uUy affect the economy. The problem is we could have a recession bel'ore then," said David Wyss, chief economist at Standard & Poor's. He put the chanci1 of recession at 40 per" cent. 
There is new worry because the market's sell-off was not halted by the Fed's latest rate cut on Tuesday. Investors, who had been hoping for a bigger dose of rate relief, turned even more pessimistic, driving stock prices down further. 
The Dow Jones industrial average, which closed off 238 points on Tuesday, fell an addi­tional 234 points on Wednesday. 
The Fed's lower interest rates, which translate into lower bor­rowing costs for millions of con­sumers and businesses, appar­ently are being offset by a nega­tive version of what analysts have called the "wealth effect" on Wall Street. 
If consumers, who spent with abandon when their portfolios were growing, reverse course now that they see their invest­ments shrinking, that change could be enough to trigger a full-blown recession, given that consumer spending accountc; for two-thirds of total economic activity. 
Even before the latest market plunge, consumer confidence in late February had dropped to it.c; lowest level in four years. 
The problem for chairman Alan Greenspan and the other Federal Reserve policy-makers is compounded by the fact that so many more Americans now own stocks -48.2 percent of all households compared with just 19 percent in 1983. 
The Fed's only tool to influ­ence the economy is interest rates. It raised rates six straight times from June 1999 through May of last year when it was concerned that rapid economic growth and the lowest unem­ployment rates in three decades were threatening to spawn higher inflation. 
While critics contend that 


Federal Reserve officials over­did the rate hikes and were too slow to start cutting rates, the Fed has made up for lost time with the pace of its cuts. 
The 1.5 point reduction that has occurred in three half-point moves starting on Jan. 3 marked the biggest period of Fed easing since a l.75 percent­age slash in rates in late 1984 when Paul Volckcr was Fed chairman. 
Some analysts said the nega­tive market reaction to this week's move was a case of investors getting too impatient. especially when viewed in light of the Fed's strong signal that it plans further rate cuts in com­ing months. 
"The important fa.ct to keep in mind is that the fed is providing significant stimulus to the econ­omy and eventually that will help corporate profits and the stock market's performance," said Lynn Reaser, chief econo­mist at Banc of America Capital Management Inc. in St. Louis. 
And that boost will occur in the time-tested way with lower interest rates stimulating con­sumer and business borrowing for big-ticket items that are financed with loans: homes, autos and appliances. 
Commercial banks, as they always do, matched the Fed's cut in rates on Tuesday with a half-point reduction in their prime lending rate, the bench­mark for millions of short-term business and consumer loans from home equity lines of credit to auto loans and credit card loans. 


A ROCK ODYSSEY 
Friday,: March 23 Alumni Senior Club 8:00pm -1 :OOpm 
$2 in advance 
at Lafun box office 
$4 at the door 

GM idles plants to cut vehicle production 
Associate<l Press 
DETROIT 
General Motors Corp. plans to briefly idle more North American assembly plants in the next three months. The move is an attempt to bring production in line with Jess demand for its vehicles. 
GM has said it looks to cut production 21 percent from January through this month over the same period last year, with plans to trim sec­ond-quartt1r output by 17 per• cent. 
The world's largest automaker said Wednesday it will idle the second production line tht~ weeks of April 2 and April 9 at its Janesville, Wis., II plant, where medium-duty trucks are made. 
The line speed at that plant also will be slowed in June to winnow production. 
In Canada, GM will idle its Ste. Therese, Quebec, plant, where Chevrolet Camaros and Pontiac Firebirds are made, for two weeks starting April 16. 
The Oshawa, Ontario, II plant that makes the Buick Century, Buick Regal and 
Chevrolet Lumina cars will be idled two weeks beginning April 30. 
GM also will idle its Baltimore plant, where the Chevrolet Astro and GMC Safari vans are made, the week of May 7. 
Though the idlings would affect thousands of workers, GM could not specify the num­ber of layoffs. 
Laid-off members of the United Auto Workers union will get 95 percent of their take-home pay under their contract, while employees belonging to the Canadian Auto Workers will get 65 per­cent of their salary. 
GM idled two assembly plants in Oklahoma City, Okla., and the Detroit suburb of Orion Township, affecting 5,600 workers, this week. 
U.S.-based automakers have cut production in the past sev­eral months to trim invento­ries bloated by slackenc.d sales. 
February U.S. sales for GM. Ford Motor Co. and DaimlerChrysler AG's Chrysler arm slid a combined 10 per­cent over the same month last year. 

page 12 The Ob,erver . NEWS Thursday, March 22, 200 I 
Bush threatens patients' bill veto Feds seize U.S. sheep in 
mad cow disease scare
simplify things for employers should have recourse in 
Associated Press 
who do business in more court." Bush said. 
OHLANOO. Fla. 

President Bush turned thumbs-down Wednesday on legislation in Congrnss that would allow wronged patients t() sue their IIMOs for millions of dollars. "I want to sign a patients' bill of rights this ynar, but I will not sign ~ bad one. he said. 
A Ion g with gen­tle jokes about Vice President Dick Cheney's heart condition. Bush used a speech to a cardiologists' convention to lay out his conditions for any bill on the question of safeguarding patient health in an era of cost-cnntrolled HMO care. 
Ile rejected a bipartisan bill by Sens. John McCain, fl. Ariz., and Edward Kennedy. D-Mass., that would allow patients to collect up to $5 million in punitive damages and unlimited "pain and sul'­fcring" damages. 
Sucb provisions would encourage frivolous litiga­tion and "drive up insurance premiums for everyone," Bush said. "To make sure health care coverage remains affordable. I will insist any l'ederal bill have l'IH_l.jiCUHLG~\l, caps Of! da.rnagc awards." 
0,1.1, C{tp~tpl 1liU, Kennedy sai'd'Rusli's suggestion "fails to protect people. It is the people against the special interests" of insurance com­panies, health maintenance organizations and other large corporations. Kennedy said he and his colleagues would proceed with their lt,gislalion rrnvertheless. 
"For l'ive long weeks we have waited for the presi• dent to work with us. And today all we get in effect is a voto message on a real patients' bill or rights. This is not the way to pass bipar­tisan legislation." he said. 
Aides said Bush intended to signal that he endorses rival efforts by Sens. Bill Frist, R-Tenn., James Jeffords, R-Vt., and John Breaux, D-La. 
The trio. which has not yet introduced its legislation. proposes tu prohibit punitive damages altogether and cap noneconomic damages -the so-called "pain and suffer­ing" damages at $500,000. All patient law­suits over the denial or delay of medical treatment would be limited to federal courts. State courts traditionally award larger damages. 
Bush said that keeping the issue in federal courts will 


Save the planet. Recycle The Observer. 
than one state. "I will not support a federal law that subjects employers to new multiple lawsuits in 50 dif­ferent states." 
Twice he reminded his long-distance audience on Capitol Hill that, as Texas governor. he vetoed patient legislation that did not meet his standards. 
Nothing currently pending in Congress would win his signature. Hush said. "So, enacting a patients· bill of rights this year is going to require some different thinking, a new approach based on sound principles." 
Those principles, he said, arc: 
. Everyone must be cov­ered. "all patients in all pri­vafe health plans." 
. Insurers must be forced to pay for reasonable emcr• gency room treatments, spe­cialists, obstetri-

Hep. John Dingell. ranking Democrat on the Energy and Commerce committee. said Bush's outline would unfair­ly lower compensation caps for injuries, prevent certain state-based patient protec­tions from taking effect and would deposit cases in feder­al courts. "where they stand in line behind drug dealers. waiting for a hearing." 
"This is a dangerous step in the wrong direction that will ultimately do more harm than good," Dingell said. 
The president was in Florida just three hours, leaving the Orange County Convention Center for a brief drop-by at a Cuban­American community center, where he moved from table to table delivering hugs and kisses to some 200 lunching seniors. 
He was accompanied by 
his younger 
brother Jeb, 
cian-gyne­"I want to sign a the Florida 
co log is ts. governor,
patients' bill ofrights
pediatri­who mugged cians. and this year, but I will not for cameras participa­at the airport
sign a bad one." 
tion "in by wrapping potentially the president lifesaving George W. Bush in an clinical President embrace. t r i a I s Before the w h e n cardiologists, standard treatment is not Bush won knowing laughs effective." with his poke at Cheney. 
. Patients must be given who made headlines earlier "fair and immediate review" this month when he was by an independent panel of again hospitalized J'or heart physicians if an insurer trouble. denies medical care. Bush quipped that he had 
"Afier independcntre~ew, thought about inviting his if you have been harmed by vice president to the Florida your I-IMO's refusal to pro­convention, "but he said he's vide care, you have a Iegiti· seen enough cardiologists mate complaint and you lately." 


Associated Press 
GREENSBORO. Vt. 
Federal agents seized a Vermont farmer's flock of 234 sheep Wednesday for fear they are infected with a version of m·ad cow disease -the first such action ever taken against livestock in the United States. 
The U.S. Agriculture Department "has no choice but to take this decisive action based on the threat the sheep pose tu the health of America's livestock nationwide," said Craig Heed, administrator of USDA's animal and plant health inspection service. 
A team al' federal agents and agriculture ort1cials arrived at Houghton Freeman's farm at daybreak. Two cattle trucks were loaded up by 11 a.m. and will take the sheep to Iowa. where they will be tested and destroyed. 
Freeman and another farrnor had waged a court bat­U e to save their sheep after the Agriculture Department ordered the nocks seized last July. 
The t1ocks consisted of sheep that were either imported from Belgium in 1996 or were descendants of those animals. 
The seizure went peacefully, but Thomas Amidon, a lawyer for Freeman, called it "sad, depre~sing and a rushed judg­ment. 
"This is so unnecessary," he said. 
USDA spokesman Ed Curlett said thll seizurn was the first of any cow or sheep in the United States under suspicion of having an illness related to mad cow disease. 
The USDA has said four sheep from Freeman's flock showed signs ol' transmissible spongif"orm encephalopathy, a class of neurological diseases that includes both bovine spongiform encephalopathy, or mad cow disease, and scrapie, a sheep disease not harml'ul to humans The gov­ernment said the sheep may have been exposed through contaminated European feed. 
However, the USDA tests could not confirm whether the sheep have BSE. The animals will undergo further testing at a USDA lab in Ames, Iowa. 
There have been no con• firmed cases or mad cow dis­ease in the United States. Scrapie has been in the United States since at least 1947. 
The second disputed llock of about 140 sheep is owned by Larry and Linda Faillace ol' East Warren. No date has been set to take thoir sheep. 
Linda Fail lace said Wednesday she felt "anger, frustration, disbelief'" and accused the USDA of failing to heed science. 
"USDA builds up public hys­teria over a species that doesn't get the disease," slrn said. 

Saint Mary's College O'Laughlin Auditorium Sunday, April 1 • 7:30 p.m. 
Please join us in support of the Food Bank of Northern Indiana by bringing a donation of canned food to the performance .. There will Saini Macy's Coll,s, ~ be collection baskets at the entrances. 


MOCift&/ 
THE ARTS 
NOTRE DAMI!, IN 

For ticket information con.tact the 284-462 6 
Saint Mary's Box Office at 
'1 
Thursday, March 22, 200 I The Observer . NEWS page 13 
House probe of pardons continues 
Official: U.N. sanctions 
2 2 

. Clinton pardons continue to draw fire in committee 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Despite calls to quit, House inwistigators an~ quietly contin• uing Lheir invcsligation into for­mer President Clinton's pardon of billionaire Marc Rich through interviews and letter• writing. Hepublican leaders ­including President Bush. Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott and !louse Speaker Dennis Hastert -havo suggested the GOP-controlled House Government Reform Committee move on from investigating the ex-president's last-second par• dons. 
Rep. Henry Waxman, D-Calif., the committee's top Democrat, wrote committee chairman Dan Burton. R-Ind.. last week point• ing to the calls to wrap things up and noting that a federal prosecutor in New York is now conducting a criminal investiga• tion into the pardons and other clemency orders Clinton issued. 
Waxman has yet to get a response back, a spokesman said. But Burton said earlier this month that if the committee for-pardons deal between Rich finds "additional questions that and Clinton. need to be asked of people But Foxman, on the same day under oath, we'll have a hear­as the interview, released a ing.'' statement saying that he erred 


The committee's investigators in supporting Rich ·s pardon. have continued to interview "On further reflection, as this people, talking to Anti­unique case unfolded, I began Defamation League National to question whether a person's Director Abe Foxman on good deeds should overshadow Monday. officials said. other aspects of his behavior," 
he said.
Foxman was one of the peo­Foxman's statement was firsLple who called for Clinton to 

reported by the Jewishpardon Rich, who fled the 
Telegraphic Agency. 
United States in 1983 rather Gershon Kekst, a New York

than face racketeering and 

public relations executive, alsoother criminal charges. 
"The extent of 

"On further reflection, as this
Marc 

Rich's unique case unfolded, I began 
suffering to question whether a. h a s 
person's good deeds should
become 

overshadow other aspects of
dispro­portion­his behavior." ate to his m i s ­
Abe Foxman
takes," 

Anti-Defamation League National
Foxman said in a l.etter to Clinton. 

was inter­viewed last week by investiga• tors, a source with knowledge of the inves­tigation said Wednesday. 
Kekst's name came up several times in e• mail traffic between 
Rich supporters and lawyers
Foxman's letter also men­

that was released by the House 
tioned Rich's donations of $100 

committee earlier this year. A 
million to educational, cultural 

message left with Kekst's office 
and social programs. After leav­

in New York City was not 
ing America, Rich became an 

immediately returned. 
Israeli citizen and has given 

The committee has also writ• millions to Israeli hospitals, ten letters asking for testimony museums, orchestras and to from several people connected 
projects to take in Jewish immi­to Clinton's last pardons, grants. including Tony and HughRepublicans want to know Rodham, as well as Roger whether there was a money-Clinton. 
against Iraq failed 
Associated Preso 
WASHINGTON 
A top State Department official said Iraqi President Saddam Hussein has used the 
U.N. sanctions imposed on his country after its 1990 inva­sion of neighboring Kuwait as "a club" against the Unitod States. 
"It was clear we had to have a different approach," Assistant Secretarv of State Edward Walker sai.d Wednesday in explanation of whv the Bush administration decided that restrictions on consumer goods should be eased and those on weapons material tightened. 
Walker, who sought sup­port for the new policy on a recent trip to Turkey and sev­eral Arab countries, said it has broad support in 

Britain, "It was clear we had to 
Policy, a pri­
France, 

have a different v a t e
Russia and 
research

China, the approach. " 
group.
other states 
Both the

with veto Edward Walker 
previous
power over 

Assistant Secretary of State Bush admin­
decisions of the U.N. Security 
. Council. Also, Walker said: "The direction we are taking has broad support in the area." Arab governments strongly advocated such a policy to 

LIFE lNTHE REALWORLD 
6et the inside nory on Life, faith, &Relationshipi from i'• Iil ttOf i''I" f'I'~ ilew Urlemu 



Secretary of State Colin Powell during his first tour of the Middle East last month. 
Walker, a former ambas­sador to Egypt and Israel, said Bush administration ofli­cials also are in the midst of devising a strategy to remove Saddam from power. Some were known in the past as advocates of using force, but Walker gave no indication of tactics President Bush even­tually will approve. 
Reports from Arab capitals suggest the Arabs will request a.11 end to sanctions at their Arab League summit meeting next Tuesday in Amman, Jordan. Walker, like State Department spokesman Richard Boucher on Tuesday, said sentiment for tightening curbs on weapon exports is strong. 
He spoke at the Washington 
Institute for 
Near East 
istration and 
the Clinton 
administra­

tion pushed hard for sanctions on every­thing except food, medicine and other humanitarian exports. The United Nations imposed sanctions shortly after the Aug. 2, 1990, inva­sion of Kuwait and left them in place after the six-week Persian Gulf War that drove out the Kuwaitis in 1991. Walker was ambassador to the United Arab Emirates during the war. 
While Iraqis who were engaged in smuggling have grown rich, most of the peo­ple suffered. Finding enough to eat was a serious problem. 
The Clinton administration responded by supporting a resolution that permitted Iraq to sell some oil -eventually limits were removed -if the proceeds were used under 
U.N. monitoring to help the people. Saddam refused to accept the outside restric­tions, and few of the humani­tarian imports materialized. 
At the same time, the United States was blaming Saddam for the hardships. 
U.S. spokesmen accused the Iraqi president of enriching himself and building palaces while letting the people starve. 
Powell took soundings in the Middle East and Persian Gulf last month and conclud­ed consumer goods should not be embargoed, nor even some questionable Iraqi imports that could have mili· tary use. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
-Used Books bought and sold -25 Categories ofBooks · -25,000 Hardback and Paperba~k books in stock -Out-of-Print search service -Appraise!, luge and small 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne ' South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 


with opening concert by DANIELLE 1KORICH &6ARY DAl6LE new orleani style reception to follow 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 
page 14 BSERVER 
Thursday, March 22, 200 I 
THE OBSERVER 

WRC decision was a good one 
P.O. I.lox Q, Nolfe Dame, IN 46556 
024 .South Dimng Hall. Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EorruR IN CHIH Mike Connolly MANAGING EDITOR BUSINF.SS MANAGER Nmmi Gillespie Bol:, WooJs 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR Kerry Smirh 
Nt:ws fllJTOR: Jason McFarley Vlf.Wl'OIN"I [J>ITORJ ['at McElwce SPORTS Enno1t: Noah Amnadrcr Scn~F. El>ITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARYS EDITOR, Myra Mc<..;riff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
AllVllRTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD 01'.SIGN MANAGFR: Chris Avila SVHEMS ADMINIHRATOR: Pavel Blagnov WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turni,,r CONTROi.UR. Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Karie McKcnna 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGElllGENF.llAl. lNF0 ..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 AI>VERTISING.....................................63 I•6900/8!140 
observad@nd.c:du EDITOR IN CHIEF ........................................631-4542 MANAGING EoJToR/AssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICF......................................... 631-53!3 
NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer .obsnews. l@nd.edu Vl£WPOJNT.................................................63l-5303 observer.vicwpoinr. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.......................................................631-4540 observer .scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARv's............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOTO......................................................63 l •8767 SYHEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visi, our Web site at http://oburver.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as wdl as carloons, reviews and breaking news from the Associarcd Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minute for«asts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online fca1Ure5 for spe­
and rates of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives 10 search for 
about The Ohsecver 
arcides published after 
to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 
17,e Obscrvc,r is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in prim and onlinc: by the students of the University ofNotre Dame, du Lac and Saint Mary·s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not govcrned by policies of the adminimarion ofeither instirution. Thc Observer reserves rhe right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The mews is reporrc,d as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent che opinion of the majority of1he Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department ediwrs. Commentaries, letters and columns prc:sent the views of rhe au,hors and not necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Vi=poim space is available to all readers. Thc free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners to the Edi1or muse be signed and mu.sr include contact information. 
Qlll!stiom r,gardi11g Obrnwrpolicirs shoul.d be dirtrt­cd la Edi1r1, in ChiefMi/re Ca11nulty. 
DILBERT 
I LIKE TAKE-CHARGE MEN WHO JUST SAY, 
"C'MON. WE'RE GOING SOMEPLACE." 

Shortly before break, President Malloy approved the recommendation made lJy the Task Force for Anti-Sweatshop Initiatives that Notre Dame join the Workers HighL,; Consortium (WRC), an association of stu­
dents, activists and 
universities orga­
nized to aid the 
workers who make collegiate liccnsPd producL-.. As a mem­
ber of the task force. I voted in favor of joining the Wl{C. 


My reasons for Todd David doing so begin with Whitmore the commitment by Notre Dame to asso­
The Common 
ciate itself with any 

Good
responsible organi­zation that helps those who make Notre Dame products have better work­ing conditions. This is not to say that the WRC is without it.5 flaws and I discussed these in my last column: Much can be improved about its monitoring and reme­diation processes. 
However, the Fair Labor Association (FI.A), ofwhich Notre Dame is a also member, is also flawed. For instance, it is my understanding that the corporate members of the FI.A squashed any dis­cussion of the living wage before it could get started. Notre Dame has found that it can work with -even while moving beyond -the parameters of the FLA; it seemed fair and just to see if the same can hold with regard to associating with the WRC. 
Concerns have been raised about the process by which the University arrived at the decision to join the WRC, both with regard to the constitution of the task force and with the confidentiality kept on the task force's recommendation to President Malloy. The argument con­cerning the constitution of the task force has been made a number of times: In the interest of openness and democratic con­versation, a member of the Progressive Student Alliance should have been appointed to the Task Force. The failure to have a PSA member on the Task Force has "shut out" the PSA from the process. 
This argument has a number of prob­lems. First, if President Malloy were to operate according to an open policy in appointing a member of the PSA. then he would also have to appoint someone from the Young Republicans, Right Reason, the Entrepreneurs Chili or some similar group. President Malloy appoint­ed two representatives ofstudent govern­ment, one undergraduate and one gradu­ate. The question can be raised as to whether PSA interest is in openness or rather in securing power for the PSA voice per se. 
This leads to the second problem. One of the benefit.5 I have found in serving on the task force is the quality of the exchange among its members. A key ele­ment of that quality is the fact that per­sons are not afraid to change their minds on issues in light of persuasive argu­ments offered by others. I have seen this happen on a number of occasions in Task Force meetings. It is unclear whether the formal representative of an organization that already has its policy agenda set ­whether the PSA or some other organiza­tion -would exhibit the same openness to mutual persuasion. 
The third problem is with the argu­mcnt that lack of PSA representation on the task force means that PS/\ voices have been "shut out." Aaron Krieder was invited to speak to the task force on his and the PSA's vinws. I can give a specific instance where his comments made a difference. In an early teach-in, he argued that the representatives of Champion. adidas and other licensees ought not to be voting members of the task force. Given that the task force is a body representing the University and not the licensees, this argument made sense to me. I want to hear what the licensees have to say, but they should not have votes shaping University policy. I made the case tu the task force in its first meet­ing and it became formal policy that the licensees are non-voting members. 
The fourth problem with the argu­

they were allowed to invest considerable energy in the sexual orientation isstw under the falsn indication that the matter was still open when in fact it had b\\en decided months before. Tlrnsn studnnL'i were clear that while they disagreed with the University's policy conclusions. what upset them most was what they described as a misleading process. 
By now it is evident that there w,L-. no "fix" in the WHC case. My support of the process that was followed in this cast> is in response to a letter written by the Academic Consortium on Interrrntional Trade (/\CIT). The letter, penned and signed by neo-dassical ecunomisL-;, appeared in the Chronicle or Higher Education and asserted that univesity presidents were not acting reasonably in joining the WHC, but rather were simply caving in to external pressures. 
I am sure that President Malloy could have withstood such pressures if the task force's recommendation to join the WHC was public and his best judgment was not to join. It seemed important, howev­er, to be able to communicate to others 
in the event of our joining the WHC 

ment for the necessity of direct~~that the decision is indis-PSA representation is evi-.,..........-vi,c, ~putably the result of the dent in viewing the sub-,Y....e., considered judgment of stance of the task / 0 the president (who, 
force's recomme,.da..-' \moreover, is an ethi­
tions. The task force , cist and also under-not only has O '\:, . stands economic affirmed the one . \('.;I(\ policy). That is thing that the : about as strong PSA has been i a rebuttal as emphasizing ;: one can give -joining the /! to the ACIT WRC -but I. letter. has gone :; I under­~~~ tt ~a' ~and~ variety of history that ways in its has led to other recom-the student mendations r-----J:.___ : distrust 
to President ~---! whenever a Malloy. The university view that hav-....,.,-:--._ process on a 
ing a PSA policy issue member on the .-.. . involves peri­task force would \ -----~ ods of confi­have led to better i · ·· .. _ _ ---------W}l ·dentiality. It is 
recommendations  /  
fails the empirical  ,  
test.  It also rests on  /  
unjust and untenable  
stereotyping of the  
members of the task force,  
particularly of the students  '--.......  
who serve on the task force and  ~  

do so with considerable commitment. 
The other issue that arose is that of whether the recommendation of the task force regarding joining the WRC should have been publicly disclosed before President Malloy decided on it. The con­cern -articulated to me by a number of students -was that the fix was in: The task force and the President really decid­ed in advance against joining the WRC and keeping the deliberations confiden­tial was a way of avoiding accountability. 
The students cited as an example the process in Notre Dame's decision not to add sexual orientation to its non-discrim­ination clause. The students said that 
SCOTT ADAMS 

C'MON, WE'RE GOING TO THE  THAT'S THE DUMBEST  I THINK  
BOWLING ALLEY!  IDEA I'VE  I  SEE  
EVER  HOW THIS  
HEA.RD.  WORKS.  
)  

· · · ------. __ ; evident that it 
1/ will take a while 
. tfm for trust to rebuild. 
~'The task force has 
. / more issues to address,
fV,.1/ mcluding those of the liv­

__..-ing wage for the workers 
who make our products and a "conscience clause" that allows coaches and student-athletes to wear generic practice and game apparel when they cannot in good conscience wear the con­tracted apparel. Perhaps the process of addressing these issues -quite apart from whatever conclusions the president makes -can be the occasion of a rebuilding of trust. 
Todd David Whitmore is an associate professor in the theology department. His column appears every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"There's right and there's wrong. You get to do one or the other. You do the one. and you 're living. You do the other. and you may be walking around. but you 're dead as a beaver hat... 
John Wayne 
actor 



VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 
Thursday, March 22, 2001 BSERVER 
page 15 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Defense of Student 
Diversity Board 

We are writing in response to the March 7 article about the Student Diversity Board at Saint Mary's College. We feel that the article was not an example of objective journalism and presented a scaled view of our board. For the sake of balanced reporting, we are writing to share what was not covered in the article. We are not trying to defend or justify our accomplish­ments; we merely want the community to know both sides of the story. 
First or all, the article did not mention that this year has been the vr.ry first year Student Diversity Board {SDB) ever existed. This organization was created last April by a small group of individuals who put together a constitution and obtained approval from the Board of Governance of Saint Mary's College. We have start­ed from scratch and had no legacy to guide us in our task of promoting diversity. 
Despite this challenge, we have worked hard to ful­fill our vision of making Saint Mary's a more educat­ed, open and comfortable environment. We would like to highlight some of the things we have done this year that were not discussed in the article. 
We sponsored Faces of America, a one-woman play about multiculturalism in the United States and co­sponsored evcnls with LaFuerza for Hispanic Heritage month, the Sisters of Nefertiti for Black History Month and Asian/Pacific Islander Club for Asian American Month. 
Also, we held three discussion forums about diversi­ty including discussions about the role diversity plays in our community, multiculturalism, racial stereotypes and approaches to combat racial prejudice. 
We organized a workshop for Resident Advisors on the issue of diversity in the residence halls and the role of R.A.s in dealing with students from various ethnic backgrounds. 
We have worked with Campus Ministry to conduct a survey among non-Catholic students to identify their needs. l\s a result. SDB is now working on a hospitali­ty program to provide a guide to resources in the South Bend community and to organize a Big Sister/Lillie Sister program. 
The Student Diversity Board identified places on campus that are not handicap-accessible and submit­ted a proposal to Residence Life to include in next year's budget. 
We sponsored Operation Christmas Child, a service­project to collect gift boxes for children in third world countries and worked with the Diversity Committee of the Strategic Planning Initiative Commission to identi­fy priorities for the College in the area of ethnic diver­sity. 
In addition, we co-sponsored Christmas Around the World with Student Activities Board, sponsored International Women's Week in March and sponsored the llunger Awareness Week and Disabilities Awareness Week. Finally, we sponsored Spring Picnic to take place on April 19, 2001. 
Today, a year from its conception, SDB is a major board within Saint Mary's student government, with 24 members including commissioners and represen­tatives from various organizations. Our mission is to raise awareness of diversity, celebrate the uniqueness of every individual. bring to attention issues of ethnic diversity and support minority groups on campus. 
The issue of diversity is complicated and challeng­ing. Entrenched attitudes and practices cannot be changed overnight. Our Board has undertaken an ambitious goal and we are proud to have started mak­ing a difference on our campus. We would like to thank students, faculty, staff and administration for their heartfelt support. We have yet much to do and we look forward to our second year of exciting events and activities. 
The Student Diversity Board Saint Mary"s College March 21, 2001 

Sanctions hurt innocents 
Although I am pleased that The General states that "nearly 90 per­Agency weapons inspectors can ver­Observer printed an article address­cent of raw sewage from the sewage 
ify that lraq is completely disarmed ing the 10 years of United Nations pumping stations in lraq is currently of weapons of mass destruction. sanctions against Iraq, I felt the arti­being discharged directly into rivers 
Many Americans attempt to blame cle failed to properly illuminate the 

and streams. Consequently, many Iraq's humanitarian crisis on the extent of destruction which the Iraqi people who rely on river water Iraqi government, citing its refusal sanctions have had on the Iraqi peo­for their daily needs are being com­
to comply with weapons inspectorsple. In addition to the 1 million pelled to deal with contaminated and entirely destroy its chemical, chronically malnourished children water, with serious public health biological and nuclear arms capabil­of Iraq, the embargo is also implications." ities. Such an analysis, however, responsible for the deaths 
During the Iran-Iraq War fails to take into account the United of about 500,000 of the 1980s and the States' role in a 1999 scandal, dur­
infants and toddlers GulfWar of 1991, ing which allegations of the U.S. 
between the years much oflraq's infra­manipulating U.N. reconassaince to 1991-1998, structure, including spy on Iraq were broken by the . 
according to a 
sewage treatment Washington Post and Boston Globe. 1999 U.N. plants and water The extent to which the U.S. violat­
report. That purification ed its relationship to U.N. weaponsnumber has plants, were investigators is debatable, but it undoubtably destroyed by the remains clear that the U.S. illegaly grown since United States. misused U.N. weapons investiga­1999 and does The economic 
tors' data to spy on the Iraqi gov­not include the embargo has ernment and destroyed the credibil­
deaths of civil­not only crippled ity of U.N. weapons inspectors.
ians over the 
Iraq's economy, Furthermore, before U.N. age of five. In thereby making weapons investigators were kicked total, since its such expensive out of Iraq in Dec. 1998, theybeginning in 1990. 7 and widespread achieved a high degree of success in the embargo has repairs impossible, disarming Iraq's weapons of mass been responsible for 1 r; but it also denies the destruction, as documented in U.N. to 1.5 million deaths. 1/~ importation of many of the reports. Despite recent efforts by 
Those who remain alive parts necessary to repair such Colin Powell to loosen economic suffer from impoverishment, out­structures as sewage treatment sanctions against Iraq, U.S. foreign breaks of normally controllable dis­facilities, hospitals or water purifi­policy still demands the deliberate ease, a lack of fundamental health cation plants. impoverishment of the 22 million care and the destruction of Iraqi Unfortunately, the economic sanc­people of Iraq and the deaths of society, despite immense relief pro­tions against Iraq have been over­hundreds of thousands of civilians, grams from humanitarian organiza­shadowed by concerns of Iraq's pos­overwhelmingly concentrated tions such as the World Food session of weapons of mass destruc­amongst young children, pregnant Program and the International tion, .even though the.e.conomic women, the elderly and tµ,9,s~,fNith 
Comittee of the Red Cross, whose embargo is responsible for more medical ailments. efforts fall far short of making up deaths than all the weapons of mass for the lack of a functioning econo­destruction ever used. Under cur­Darren Kernaghan my, due to the economic embargo. rent U.N. security resolutions, the sophomore Among other troubles, the Nov. embargo will not be lifted until U.N. St. Edward's Hall 2000 U.N. Report of the Secretary-and International Atomic Energy March 17, 2001 
GUEST COLUMN 
Druggies paid to get sterilized 
SAN DIEGO, Calif. woman, in this state ofmind, money that could forever 
Drug abuse and the protection of a woman's right to remove her chance to reproduce. This suggests that do what she chooses with her body are two separate CRACK simply writes off these women as addicts that topics that are not usually related. But in recent months, will never seek treatment. issues have surfaced that closely link drug abuse with A young woman, say 21, might choose this procedure the reproductive rights of women. simply for the money-to help herself get off the street 
Last week, 60 Minutes II aired a for a night and get high. Should we generalize her along
Karen Roessing

show about a new program named with all the other addicts, stereotyping her as a life~long CRACK, (Children Requiring a drug user? Well, not all addicts use for life, and if a Caring Kommunity) which offers an woman decides to get cleaned up, she might choose to alternative for women on drugs. The Daily have a normal life, get married and have a family. CRACK gives women with sub­Aztec Women on drugs should not be preyed upon by a pro­stance abuse problems an alternate gram that has a personal crusade against women who option to taking pills or using con-use drugs while pregnant. doms. CRACK will pay women $200 if they agree to Scarlett Taylor, 24. is one of these young women who either long-term birth control or sterilization through chose to go with CRACK's program. She is a mother of a tubal ligations. And the reason behind these proce­6-month-old daughter and is a former heroin addict. dures? Women who do drugs will no longer have Taylor's motivation for the procedure: money. She used unwanted pregnancies or the option to give birth to chil­the $200 to help pay for her college application fee. dren with defects resulting from their mothers' addic­Taylor has also made $250 from the five women she has tions. referred to the program. 
Women who support this program justify their actions According to an April 2000 statistic, of the 188 women with the response that, "until you have adopted children who have chosen to take CRACK's $200 payment, 102 that have siblings who have died from their mother's have chosen sterilization. Flyers presenting this medical continual drug use during pregnancy, or a child who option to women with drug abuse problems have was born premature and ditched behind a dumpster, appeared in clinics all over California. Soon this pro­you have no right to judge us." gram could be offered to women in San Diego clinics. 
After seeing the effects of a mother's drug abuse on This reality is not too far off, since Barbara Harris her newborn child, one could understand CRACK's con­founded the program in California, and Los Angeles, cern. Barbara Harris, the program's founder, has only miles away from us, has CRACK's biggest customer adopted four children -all victims born from the same base. drug-addicted mother. 
Although this program keeps drug users from getting This article first appeared in the March 21, 2001 pregnant, is it ethical to offer $200 to women who are issue ofSan Diego State's daily paper, The Daily Aztec, on the streets and need money for their next fix? To and is reprinted here courtesy ofU-Wire. people who are perpetually focused on their next high, The views expressed in this column are those ofthe $200 is a lot of money. It doesn't seem fair to offer a author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

M 
ce 
E 
page 16 Thursday, March 22, 2001 
OSCAR FEATURE 
The 73rd annual Academy Awards woni 
Scenes movie critics offer predictions and 

ByMATI'CACCAMO and MATT NANIA Scene Movie Critics 
Every year the Academy of Motion Picture Arts & Sciences bestows upon a lucky few its Oscar statuettes. And every year moviegoers around the world watch in dii.bclief' as films like "The English Patient" beat out more worthy lilms like "Fargo." The Academy voted admirably lust season in choosing "American Beauty" the Best Picture: but without serious competition, there was no other choice. This year, the group's 6,000 mem• bers have the rare opportunity to do some good. Several remarkabl~1 films. performances and craf'tsmf'n am up for consideration and it would be more than disappoint· ing to sen such talents completely ignored. Unl'ortunately, the buzz around Ilollywood (via the Internet) indicates that the Academy is headed for another meltdown. Here, then, is an analysis of each major category, complete with probable winners and losers. 
Best Picture 
Nominees: "Chocolat," "Crouching Tiger, Hidden 
Dragon," "Erin Brockovich," "Gladiator," "Traffic" 
The battle-oriented action drama "Gladiator" lits the Oscar mold perfectly: It's an epic, has impressive sets and costumes, contains a strong lead performance and faired well with both critics and audiences. It also has that "they don't make them like this, anymore" spirit that Academy voters love. 
"Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon," though, is consid· ercd by many to be the better mm. Also an epic, the martial arts fantasy has slowly but surely gained accep­tance with American audiences, despite the film's subti• ties. Unfortunately, the Academy usually awards Best Picturn to an American film, and will most likely deem "Crouching Tiger" the winner in the Foreign Film cate­gory. 
The three other contenders in this race, "Traffic," "Erin Brockovich" and "Chocolat" just don't measure up to the epic feel of either "Gladiator" or "Crouching Tignr." Steven Soderbergh's "Traffic," although incredi• bly well acted, directed and written, is too heavy and intelligent for its own good (when it comes to Best Picture winners, anyway). The sweet but simple "Chocolat" was marketed well by its distributor, Miramax, but the nomination is enough. "Erin Hrockovich," also directed by Soderbergh, is lightweight compared to the director's other effort (it suffers some• what from being a Julia Roberts star vehicle). And the fact that Soderbergh fans will split their vote doesn't bode well for either of his films. 
What will win: "Gladiator" What may win: "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon" What should win: "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon" 
Best Director Nominees: Stephen Daldry ("Billy Elliot"), Ang Lee ("Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon). Ridley Scott ("Gladiator"), Steven Soderbcrgh {"Erin Brockovich"), Steven Soderbergh ("Traffic") 
Russell Crowe's "Gladiator" Is the most likely winner of this year's Best 
us the best work of her career.
Picture Award. 
Soderbergh's double nomination is an honor in itself, and some say it proves that he is this year's best direc­tor. Unfortunately for him, the studios couldn't decide which nomination to promote, so a split vote is more than likely (such was tho case at the Golden Globes). 
"Billy Elliot" isn't nominated for Best Picture, and the competition is too fierce, so don't look for Daldry to win. Scott's "Gladiator" is up for a dozen awards, though, and the Academy often supports a director who tackled a film's scope and spectacle with proficiency and profes­sionalism. 
But the real thermometer of the Best Director race is the Director's Guild award, which was given to Ang Lee just recently. That pretty much clinches the win for Lee, especially considering that Scott's "Hannibal" wasn't well liked by audiences or critics. But. again. the Academy loves spectacle and technical merit, so Scott (who has been around for a while), may just fly right over Lee's head. 
Who will win: Ang Lee 
Who may win: Ridley Scott 
Who should win: Lee or Steven Soderbergh ("Traffic") 
Best Actor 

Nominees: Javier Bardem ("Before Night Falls"), 
Russell Crowe ("Gladiator"), Tom Hanks ("Cast 
Away"), Ed Harris ("Pollock"), Geoffrey Rush 
("Quills") 

The only thing keeping this race from being Hanks' victory is the fact that the everyman actor has won twice before. "Cast Away" was a box office success and show­cased the actor's talents just as "Philadelphia" and "Forrest Gump" did. As Chuck Noland in the desert island drama, Hanks demanded the audience's atten­tion. And he got it in spades. 
Crowe, too, demanded attention as the general• turned·slave Maximus in "Gladiator." Not only was it a 
· star·making turn, but it is widely held that no other actor in Hollywood could command such a physical presence and still remain noble. Unfortunately for Crowe, his off-screen escapades as reported in the tabloid press have brought him more attention than the film has (when it comes to Oscar, not all press is good press). Bardem's performance as a gay writer in "Before Night Falls" could have used more press and promotion, as it appears no one has seen the film (it's not up for any other awards, either). As the controversial Marquis de Sade in "Quills," Rush displayed much more than his acting talents in a very gruesome and vile role, therefore lessening his chances for Oscar success. The remaining candidate in this hotly contested cate· gory is Harris. Harris directed and starred in "Pollock," a biography of famous American painter Jackson Pollock, and the widely respected actor has received praise for his stunning portrayal of a man struggling against his own ideas of success and failure. Harris may strip away the win from Hanks if enough voters have seen the film and understand the sacrifices Harris made to get the film produced. The Academy consists largely of actors, both employed and retired, and it wouldn't be much of a surprise to see Harris pull it oIT. 
Who will win: Tom Hanks 
Who may win: Ed Harris 
Who should win: Harris 
Best Actress 
Nominees: Joan Allen ("The 
Contender"), Juliette Binoche 
("Chocolat''), Ellen Burstyn 
("Requiem for a Dream"), 
Laura Linney ("You Can Count 
On Me"}, Julia Roberts ("Erin 
Hrockovich") 
Perhaps the most predictable race at this year's Oscars, the Best Actress category contains two perlbrmances that blow the competition out of the water. 
As a drug addicted mother in Darren Aronofsky's "Requiem for a Dream," veteran actress Burstyn dared to go where few actors have gone before. She tapped into truly honrifying emotions and psychoses in the oddly exhilarating film, giving 
Linney also did an excellent job portraying a mother, although in a completely different film. "You Can Count On Me" gave the relatively unknown actress a shot at creating a multi·layered. realistic character with human quirks and complica· lions. Linney did more than live up to the challenge. 
Two other contenders, Binoche and Allen. did admirable work as well. Binochc was a delight to watch in "Chocolat" and Allen con­veyed dignity and determination as a senator caught up in a scandal in "The Contender." Against Burstyn and Linney. though, they don't stand a chance. 
But this race is Julia Hoberts' to lose. The super•popular actress has won numerous critical awards, the Golden Globe and the Screen Actors Guild award (that was the clincher). As the title char• acter in "Erin Brockovich," Hoberts gave audiences her best work to date, exhibiting charm and cleavage in equal measure ­a talent that is, apparently, award worthy. Unless a backlash comes along to wipe Hoberts off the nom• ination list, look for that wide• mouthed smile to be onstage accepting its award. 
Who will win: Julia Roberts Who may win: Ellen Burstyn Who should win: Laura Linney or Burstyn 
Best Supporting Actor Nominees: Jeff Bridges ("The Contender"), Willem Dafoe ("Shadow of the Vampire"), 
Benicio Del Toro ("Traffic"), Albert Finney {"Erin Brockovich"}, Joaquin Phoenix ("Gladiator") 
The Supporting Actor race is notorious for being dilli· cult to predict, and this year is no exception. 
Although Del Toro emerged victorious over Hanks and Crowe at the Screen Actors Guild awards (for which he was nominated for best lead actor). Finney is a well• respected, veteran•supporting actor who has yet to win his Oscar. Both candidates performed in multi-nominal· ed films and both were under the direction of Soderbergh. 
What it comes down to, it seems, is the role itself. As a Mexican law enforcer in "Traffic," Del Toro had to exhibit a man's conflicting motives ijustice or loyalty) all while speaking a particular Mexican dialect. 
Albert Finney's role, howev• er, was not particularly chal• longing. Playing an aging lawyer and boss of a small firm, Finney displayed a good combination of weariness, reluctance and dignity. but it's easy to think of other actors who could have done the job just as well. So Del Toro has the edge over Finney and, con­sequently, the cdgn ovnr the three remaining nominees, whose performances are either Loo pretentious (Bridges, as a speechifying president). too ovnr-the•top (Dafoe, as vampire Max Schrek) or too inconsistent (Phoenix's cry-baby Caesar). 
Who will win: Benicio Ucl Toro Who may win: Albert Finney Who should win: Del Toro 
Best Supporting Actress 
Nominees: Judi Dench ("Chocolat"}, Marcia Gay Harden ("Pollock"), Kate lludson "Erin Brockovich" contains ("Almost Famous"), Frances mance to date. 

The 2001 Academy Aw March 25. 
WWW ;.;. 

... . -::l!!iilill 
E -,: 
Thursday, March 22, 200 l page 17 

t honor the best, but at least it'll be fun 
ommentary on Hollywood's biggest night 

McDormand ("Almost Famous"), Julie WaJters ("Billy 
Elliot") 
Looking back at former win­ners in this category (Kirn Basinger. Mira Sorvino, Marisa Tomei), it becomes clear that lhe Academy likes to award frcsh­face d talent with the trophy, hoping to give the actress' career a boost. Hudson, as "band aide" Penny Lane in "Almost Famous," tits this mold perfectly. It doesn't hurt that her mother, Goldie Hawn, won the award back in 1970. 
Dench. although receiving Lhe SAG, is out of the race because she was given an Oscar just two years ago for "Shakespeare in Love." Walters, as a ballet teacher in "Billy Elliot," was overshadowed by Jamie Bell's moving performance as the title character. And McDormand doesn't pose much of a threat because voters who want to rec­ognize "Famous" will pick Hudson. 
Harden, however, gives the most challenging performance in this category, and she just might walk away with the win. As Jackson Pollock's wife and supporter, Harden did a fantas­tic job creating sympathy for a man who often never gave any­thing back. But, as stated before, the Academy likes to se(! young, weepy tears up on that podium, and Hudson is the perfect victim. 
Who will win: Kate Hudson 
Who may win: Marcia Gay 

Who should win: Harden 
So Hollywood waits anxiously for the vaunted 
Academy to choose the top films and performances of 
the year, and the movie-going public anticipates a star­
studded Oscar night filled with beautiful people, their 
expensive clothes and their ridiculous acceptance 
speeches. Without a doubt, the Oscar ceremony is the most important night of the year for Hollywood. A nomination, not to mention a victory, can catapult a mediocre actor, director or producer to imme­diate fame and future fortune. It's completely understand­able why the industry puts so much stock in these awards. 
But why do we? 
Why the Oscars Don't 
Matter 
Oscar night is, after all, a ceremony by celebrities, for celebrities in celebration of being a celebrity. So why do we as moviegoers put so much stock in them? Why do they matter? The short answer is that they don't. Here are five really good rea­sons why: 
Who are these guys? 
Ask 100 people what the "Academy" is, and 100 people will have no idea. Ask the same 100 people to name one member of the "Academy," and. most likely. 100 will not be able to offer an answer. So who are these guys'? 
It would seem that the Oscar earns its prestige from the academy that awards it. One might even imagine that Americans hold the Academy in high regard because of its lofty vision of purposeful art and filmmaking in mod­ern society. But the simple fact is that very few people actually know what the Academy is. 


The Academy's website (www.oscar.org) offers very little help. "The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences is a professional honorary organization com­posed of over 6,000 motion picture craftsmen and women." That is interesting, but it still tells us nothing about what the Academy is, what it stands for (if any­thing), and who makes up its membership. 
The website goes on for two paragraphs describing the Oscar statue and its history. It tells us the statue's mea­surements (13.5 in. tall, 8.5 lbs.). its designer and how it earned its nickname. The site tells us nothing of the group that offers the awards. This perfectly represents the nature uf the Academy Awards: all fluff. It's nothing but pretty people acting nice to receive beautiful, golden awards that will ensure them prosperity and more beau­ty in the future. It's the ultimate insider pat on the back. 
How do they vote? 
One might assume that an Academy member, realizing the weight and importance of their vote and the ultimate decision of the Academy, would make a point of seeing every film up for the award on which they cast their vote. This is not the case. It came as quite a surprise to discover (thanks to the fine investigative reporting done by "E!") that the majority of Academy members never see all the movies up for awards. This year, a member might see "Erin Brockovich" and "Gladiator" (the two box-office leaders among the best picture nominees), but fail to see "Chocolat" (a much less commercialized film), and still cast a vote. 
In addition, there is no standard way in which mem­bers view these films. Some are seen in special screen­ings, some on home video, some in cramped, public movie-theaters. Does that affect the way they vote? Maybe. No one can deny that there is a vast difference between seeing "Gladiator" or "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon" on home video and in a theater. 
The Sacrificial Lambs 
Each year the Academy nominates films and actors 
who have absolutely no chance of winning. There are 
three main categories of these "sacrificial lambs." 
The first is the foreign language film lamb. When was 
the last time a foreign language film won the Best 
Picture Oscar? It's impossible to remember because it 
has never happened. Never -unless you consider 
British a foreign language. Yet every couple years, the 
Academy feels it necessary to nominate a foreign lan­
guage film to show off its international credentials and 
worldly instincts. This is an empty sham that does not 
bode well for Ang Lee and "Crouching Tiger, Hidden 
Dragon." 

Next is the low-budget-experimental film lamb. This is 
the film that doesn't make $150 million at the box office 
and is not released by one of the top five Hollywood film 
studios but still manages to sneak in a nomination for 
Best Picture, Director or Actor. Among recent victims 
are "The Full Monty," "Secrets and Lies" and "Babe." 
They are interesting and unique, but they will never win 
because the Academy finds them all too revolutionary or 
challenging to the status quo. 
Finally, there is the comedy film lamb. Why don't funny movies ever win the big awards? Are comedies, by definition, not high quality? A more likely explanation is that the Academy takes itself too serious to relax and admit that a film that makes them laugh carries some intrinsic value. Maybe "Moonstruck" was better than "The Last Emperor" in 1988. Not on the Academy's life would they ever admit that on Oscar night. 
Of course, the artists who work on these sacrificial lamb films are thankful just to receive a nomination. For them, a nomination is enough to bring them the respect and attention that they would otherwise not receive. But we should demand more; namely, a fair playing field in which original, "different" films arc not predetermimid to lose. 
The "What Were They Thinking?" Years 
To put it simply, the Academy messes up quite often. There are plenty of years that we can look back on with wonderment. 
A perfect example is 1995. Although it was named Best Picture, many people would argue that "Forrest Gump" was not the best film of the year. Its competition included the memorable "Pulp Fiction," the historically interesting "Quiz Show," the touching and increasingly popular "Shawshank Redemption" and the endearing comedy "Four Weddings and a Funeral." It's anyone's guess how "Gump" pulled that one off. 
A more recent example is 1998, in which "Titanic" inexplicably captured 11 Oscars, including Best Picture. It seems "L.A. Confidential" was deemed too confusing, "As Good as it Gets" and "The Full Monty" too funny, and "Good Will Hunting" too touching. Instead, they chose a big-budget film rich in special effects and romance but short on common sense or any deep sense of itself. 
The Better Alternatives 

If a moviegoer really wants to know the best films of the year, why not turn to the people for whom evaluat­ing movies is a profession: film critics. Numerous associ­ations of critics release their annual awards ever year to little public scrutiny or acclaim. 
While these are just more awards given by human beings with different subjective analyses of a subjective art, it might make more sense to trust film critics who actually see every movie on which they vote. 
In addition, these critics work independently of the Hollywood industry, unlike the vague membership of the Academy that most likely draws its ranks from the industry itself. Film critics are outsiders who, presum­ably, have no reason to favor one film over the other. They see nearly every film released in a year {foreign and domestic, big budget and small), making them more than capable of fairly and effectively evaluating their worth. • 
This is not to say that moviegoers shouldn't enjoy the 
Oscar show next week. Enjoy the beautiful faces, elegant 
gowns and tuxedoes, and amazingly cheerful smiles. 
Just remember that it is really nothing more than pat­
ting oneself on the back. 

The winners of the 73rd Annual Academy Awards will 
be announced live starting at 8 p.m., Sunday, March 25, 
on ABC. Hosted by Steve Martin, and featuring perfor­
mances by Bjork, Bob Dylan, Randy Newman and Sting, 
this years Oscar ceremony is certain to entertain (and 
infuriate). 


Photo courtesy of oscar.org The 73rd Academy Award nominess gathered at a Hollywood luncheon last week to drink and schmooze with fellow nominees and Academy voters. 
llll!!""..,..11111111...•••~--..,.•••......-•...• 

The Obse,-ver . SPORTS Thursday, March 22, 200 I 
I 7r 
NBA 

I 
Hamilton and Alexander lead Wizards to victory 
away at the lead, narrowing the from the top of the key as the Wednesday night. shooting team, broke open a 
Associatc,d Press 

gap to 19-15 on Hamilton's Magic scored the first seven Elden Campbell added 14 close game and beat the Boston 
jumper, then tied it at 22 on points of the fourth quarter to points for Charlotte, which Celtics Wednesday night. 
LAND, Calif. 

Davis' 3-pointer with just 25 take a 75-7 4 lead. improved to 3-1 against the The Spurs led 62-61 late inRichard Hamilton scored 28 
seconds left. The lead seesawed before Raptors this season with an the third quarter when Paul
points and Courtney Alexander The Warriors managed to Miller hit a 3-pinter from the average victory margin of 25 Pierce and Antoine Walker.

added a career-high 26 as the 

extend their lead to 37-31 on top of the key for a 94-91 lead points. Boston's top scorers. went to
Washington Wizards beat 

Erick Dampier's turnaround with l :14 remaining. Michael Eddie Robinson came off the the bench for a rest.
Golden State 99-94 Wednesday 

jumper with 5:27 left before the Doleac and Miller traded free bench to score 13 points for From that point, San Antonionight, sending the Warriors to half, but the Wizards kept up throws before Armstrong's last Charlotte on 5-of-9 shooting, outscored Boston 35-16. It waslheir 11 tb straight loss. 
the pressure and tied it at 46-shot bounced off the front of the the 20th straight game he's the 3-point shot that made the
Antawn Jamison scored 23 

46 on Alexander's 3-pointer rim as time expired. shot 50 percent or better from difference as Porter made three
points for the Warriors, who 

with 1:08 left before Adam the field. of them in the last three min­have lost nine straight at home. 
Keefe's shot at the buzzer gave The Raptors, coming off a utes of the third quarter and
Heat 109, Bulls 81
With the game tied at 87. the 

the Warriors their halftime 102-81 win over Indiana on Anderson sank three and
Brian Grant scored 22 points
Wizards went on an 8-3 run to 

edge. Tuesday night. looked sharp Danny Ferry one in the first
to lead six players in double fig­
take a 95-90 lead on Hubert 

early but wilted after halftime. 7:04 of the fourth.
ures as the Miami Heat rolled
Davis' 3-pointer with 1:47 left. 

They trailed the Hornets on The Spurs entered the game
Vonteego Cummings hit a 3-Pacers 96, Magic 95 to a win over the Chicago Bulls every fast break of the third with a 40.8 3-point percentageReggie Miller scored on Wednesday night.
pointer for the Warriors to 

quarter, allowing Mashburn to and shot 7-of-11 in the secondIndiana's last five points and Grant scored 14 of his points
--close lbe gap, bu,t Golden State hit easy layups and open half after going 2-for-9 in thethe Pacers survived a second­before halftime and finished
couldn't get any closer. 

jumpers while scoring 16 first.
Davis finished with 21 points half rally to defeat the Orlando 11-of-l 9 from the floor in 28 
points. San Antonio, 11-1 in its lastMagic 96-95 Wednesday night. minutes.
for the Wizards. who snapped a Charlotte, which trailed bv 13 12 games, was led by Andersonthree-game losing streak. Miller scored 22 points to Anthony Mason followed with in the first quarter, rallied to with 26 points and Tim Duncanlead six Pacers in double fig­15 points and 12 rebounds. and.lahidi White had 11 points and take a 57-51 lead into halftime. with 15 points and 14

ures. Tim Hardaway ad~ed 13 points11 rebounds. 
The Hornets then put Toronto rebounds, his NBA high 56thThe victory wasn't secured as Miami won its fourth straightBoth teams entered the game away by scoring on their Iirst double-double of the season.
until Darrell Armstrong, who home game. 
with just 16 victories, tied for 

six possessions of the third Boston, which won its last
made three 3-pointers in the The Bulls, who have a league­the second-worst record in the quarter and shooting 70 per­two games on the road, was ledfinal quarter and finished with low 11 wins, dropped their 21st
NBA. 

cent for the period. bv Pierce with 37 and Walker29 points and 12 assists, missed straight road game and eighth
Mitch Richmond, a former 

Wesley hU a pair of 3-point­with 13. Of Boston's 36 second­a 3-point attempt from the right straight overall.
Warrior. remained out of the 

ers in the period and the sec­half points, Pierce had 18 andcorner at the final buzzer. The Heat's 28-point margin ofWizards' lineup with a strained ond one gave Charlotte an 83-Walker 9.
Austin Croshere scored 14 victory was their largest of theright knee. It was the 31st 
61 lead. Mashburn's reverse The Celtics' biggest lead waspoints for Indiana. Jermaine season at home. All 12 playersgame he has missed this season layup with 1:06 to play in the 30-14 early in the second quar­O'Neal scored 13, Al Harrington scored for the Heat, who nar­with injuries. 
third gave the Hornets their ter, but that slipped to 41-40 athad 12 points and 12 rebounds, rowly missed a season-high forThe Warriors led by as many largest lead at 92-66. halftime as they scored justJalen Rose added 12 points and field-goal percentage with 55.7.
as seven points in the third 

Vince Carter led Toronto with three baskets in the last 6 1/210 assists and Travis Best The Heat took command with
quarter, but the Wizards 

23 points. but 13 of them came minutes.
scored 10. a 14-4 run just before the halfopened the fourth with another 
in the first quarter when he The Spurs went ahead when
With Boston losing at home, to open a 59-42 lead at the
3-pointer by Davis to narrow 

was able to hit his outside shots Anderson hit the first basket ofthe Pacers opened a one-game break.
Golden State's edge to 78-77. 

-he opened the game by mak­the third quarter, giving them
The Wizards went ahead for lead over the Celtics for the Miami opened a 30-point lead ing all three of his 3-point their first lead since 2-0.
eighth and final playoff spot in in the third quarter as Chicagothe first lime in the ~ame when 
attempts. Pierce and Walker scored 18
the East. managed only 14 points in theDavid VaM.atl'i)'>OI •s-,J-t.mpe.r.­
Charlotte forced him inside of Boston's 20 points in the·' Tracy McGrady scored 25 period and committed seven
made it 79-78 with 9:13 to play. 

after that and contested most of third quarter. With the Spurs
The lead went back and forth points for Orlando, and Mike turnovers. 
his jumpers. He attempted only ahead 62-61, Duncan hit a free
Miller added 12. Jamal Crawford scored 17the rest of the way. 
two more 3-pointers the rest of throw with 1 :03 left, Porter
Indiana was leading 69-51 points to lead the Bulls. Ron
The Warriors squandered an the game and didn't hit either sank a 3-pointer with 37 sec­

11-point lead in the first quar­with 5: 20 to play in the third Artest. Brad Miller and Ron of them. He sat most of the onds remaining. and Anderson ter but the Wizards couldn't quarter when Orlando began its Mercer each added 13. 
fourth quarter. made a layup with 11 secondscomeback.
manage to get the lead and 
to go.

Armstrong and McGrady
Golden State had a 48-46 lead 

Hornets 111, Raptors 95 Boston still had a chance 
at the half. scored four points each as the Spurs 97, Celtics 77 Jamal Mashburn scored 27 
when Pierce's last basket cut
The Warriors took a 19-8 Magic went on a 17-5 run over Terry Porter and Derek the lead to 81-71 with 6:37 left.
lead in the first quarter on the remainder of the quarter. points and David Wesley added Anderson started hitting from 26 to lead the Charlotte Hornets But Ferry's 3-pointer began a
Jamison's slam dunk with 5:30 McGrady hit two baskets and long range as the San Antonio to go. The Wizards chipped Armstrong added a 3-pointer to a victory over Toronto on Spurs, the NBA's best 3-point 10-0 run. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edi, all classifieds for content without issuing refunds . 
CLASSIFIEDS 
., 
WANTED 
Fraternities' Sororities 
Clubs"Student Groups 
Earn $1,000-$2,000 this semester 
with the easy 
Campusfundraiser.com .three hour 
lundralsing event No sales 
required. Fundraising dates are fill­
ing quickly, so call today! Contact 
Campusfundraiser,com at (888) 
923·3238, or visit www campus­!undra/ser com 
Need babysitter, pref. Early ad 
maIor, own trans. 2-yr.-old by 
Martins 272-1205 
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: 
Make a difference in the Ille of a child! Summer therapy camp for children with d1sabiilties. Localed on shore of Lake Superior near Big Bay, Ml. Positions available for Counselors, ureguards, Instructors for Nature/Arts & CrattSl'Recreation/Canoelng, Nurses, Therapists, Food Service, and Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic, responsible, and love children. June 17 through August 12. Salary. Room & Board, and experience 01 a ldet1me provided. Call or write for application and information. Bay Cliff Health Camp, 310 W. Washington. Suite 300, Marquette. Ml 49855, (906)228-5770. e-mail BayClilfHC@aol.com 
CHILDCARE NEEDED: ND prof 
needs childcare in home T-Th mornings, Ideally 9-2 but at least 9­
1. Three great kids, 5,3, 1. Large comlortable home 1 mile from cam­pus. Own transportation required. Please call 631-3654 days, 289­3865 evenings or email meiss· ner.1@nd.edu 
LOSE WEIGHT! EAT WHAT YOU LIKE! WEIGHT WATCHERS ON CAM· 
PUS SERVICE 
Your super-convenient dream diet lrom a name you trust Is corning to Notre Darnel No complicated count­ing! Eat plz;za, cookies, fast food ­any food you crave and lose weigh! Get Info-packed booklets, tons of super-easy recipes, samples of vour great snack bars and special­ized online support from trained Weight Watchers staff. You pay just $59 for 5 weeks. Summer is just around the comer-register today over the phone: 1·800-572-5727. Visa, MasteiCard, and Discover Accepted 
Indiana Catholic couple with huge hearts wishing to adopt a child. We can provide your baby with lots ol love and a secure, stable life. Reasonable expenses will be paid. For more Info, please ca II Rebecca re Larry &Kathy: 
toll-free 1·866-30-ADOPT 

FOR RENT 
3-6 bedroom homes furn. Near campus 2001102&summer 
272-6306 

HOUSES FOR RENT: 1)4-br $700/month 2)3-br. $600/month We'll make almost any changes to the houses. Call Bill at 675-0776 
4-BR HOUSE! CENTRAL AIR SEC SYS ETC. $600/MONTH. 291-2209 MaQ.Qil~rnichi;ma ,org 
Bed and Breakfast for ND and SMC graduation 3 miles from ND 2 rooms left 
287-4545 

3-5 bedroom homes close to campus 232-2595 mmmrentals@aoi.com 
2 BR HOUSE PERFECT FOR SIN· GLE/COUPLE $300/MO. Dave 291­2209 
2-4 PERSON HOUSE FOR RENT. NEWLY RENOVATED. THREE BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. CALL 
219-298-3800. 
3 Houses still available for 2001-02. 5-6 BR, Furnished, W/D, prime locations, 233-9947 Greg. 
FOR SALE 
SPRING BREAK-DOWNTOWN CHICAGO! $22-25/night-Hostelling lnt'I $2 OFF WITH AO 
312/360-0300 or 
www.hichjcago,org 
PHONE CARDS 
$20: 
2601 MIN WITH 49 CENT SUR­
CHARGE 
or 
$20 
362 MIN WITH NO FEE$ 
634-1146 CLAUDIA 634-4210 SARA 
Beautiful brass bed, queen size, wilh orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame. All new, never used, still in plastic. $235 
219-862-2082 
Spring Break AppetizerMexlcan Blankets from $12.95 + S&H 
Mexiconnection.com 
Europe $199 one way. Mexico/Caribbean or Central America $250 round trip+ tax. Other worldwide destinations cheap. It you can beat these prices start your own dam airline I Book tickets online www ajrtech com or 
(877) AIRTECH 

Need a dress for upcoming SYR's/forrnals?? I'm selling sever­al formal dresses that have only been worn once. Call 284•4446 for Info. 
PERSONAL 
I hate technologyi!!I! 

Ken-Doll -remember, boys are dumb throw rocks at them! Especially boys who make you wrinkle your nose/ 
Members of the Collective -consid· er your number falling to five as I am sucked into the void that is called "The Observer." It may never let me go! 
countdown to the ASF on Saturday: 3 days. time to party like rockstars. and then the 'backer afterwards. NG· I can hardly wait! 
Don't worry, professor Left won't miss us tomorrow. 
AAAAHHHHHH! Save me from 
South Dining Hall! 
So yeah, sometimes you have to 
skip class In order to sleep. 
OK, it's really lime to go 
GEORGE!!!/! 
Bananas in pajamas are corning 
down the stairs. Bananas in paja­
mas are chasing teddy bears. 
Thank you, everyone who worked 
on Wednesday night. You rock 
even if the new printer stopped 
rocking. --Noreen 

Jnelt and Cass -We are going to have a rockin' formal. Thanks for all your hard work. 
I'm hotter than Britney any day of 
the week. But I'm not a per­former... of that kind anyway. 

Professor Left, I am so sorry, but I won't be attending class today. I was just up too late. It's 4:55 a.m. and the end Is not near. 
Chuk, thanks for being my date. Except you have to be nice. Even in your away messages. 
Molly -thanks for lunch. 
closer than my peeps you are to me. 

--.
---·---·----..-w -------------· 
Thursday, March 22, 200 l The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 

Thursday: AcoustiCafe @ LaFun Huddle 

Oscar Filrir~~. 
I Shakespec3feIrrLovet·:; · ··. 
8:00pm $2 admisison·. · . 155 DeBartbfo' 

9pm-12pm 
0 Brother; Where Art Thou? 8pm & 1Opm · 101 DeBartolo 
$2 at the{fDoort,· 
.,

NAZZ . 2001 a . rock odyssey 8:00pm;ft00fam Senior Bar $4 at the..~Door 
•·lfi•. ·· . 1r 

0 Brother; Where Art Thou? 8pm & 10pm 101 DeBartolo $2 at the Door 
Saturday: oBrotffer; Where Art Thou? 
OscarFilmfest 8pm & 1.Qpm . 101 DeBartolo 
American $2 at the Door .Beauty 
8:00pm' · $2 admisison 155 DeBartolo . 


Bobby Knight will be speaking at the Stepan Center on March 27th. 
Tickets are still available at the Lafun Box Office. 
www.nd.edu/-sub 
r 
WC 
I 

Wednesday, Febtuaiy'21·, 2001°. 
I 
: BASEBALL 
I :,. I I 
Errors and pitching play key role in Irish victory 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Sports Wrirer 
flits for the Irish Wednesday afternoon were few and far between. but they came at the right time as Notre Dame secured a 3-0 victory over Cleveland State. 
The Irish capitalized off of five Viking errors. scoring three unearned runs with some very timely hitting. 
As has been the story most of 

the year, Irish pitchers baffledI, their opponents and let the I defense play behind them. I I Sophomores Peter Ogilvie and 
I 
I Matt Laird combined to throw 
I 
I a four-hit shutout against the I Vikings.I "Pitching was outstanding for
I I 
I us today," said Coach Paul I Mainieri. "Peter (Ogilvie] really ! brought it to their hitters . today, working the strike zone 
. 
and letting his defense make 

r 
I plays. Matt [Laird) also had an I excellent showing today. He
I 
I really improved his consistency and got back into a good
! groove."
I Ogilvie was impressive once
i 
again in his ·second start of the year, working seven innings, allowing no rtms on just three hits. l le showed great poise in getting out of some jams in the early innings, then really set­tling down as the game wore on to earn his first win of the season. 
"It was great. for me to get the opportunity to pitch today, especially in our first home game," said Ogilvie. "I just tried to go out, throw strikes, and let our defense take care of the rest." 
Laird was just as dominant in relief of his teammate, pick­ing up a save for his efforts. He demonstrated excellent control, striking out four of the seven batters he faced, and only allowing one to reach base. 
The Irish hitters continued the same style of small-ball they have played all year. rely­ing on base hits. walks, stolen bases and bunts to produce runs one at a time. 
Notre Dame first struck in the fourth inning, when junior right fielder Brian Stavisky reached base on an error by Cleveland State shortstop Mike Lehman. 
Stavisky then stole second and advanced to third on a past ball. A groundball by sophomore left fielder Kris Billmaier brought Stavisky home to give the Irish a 1-0 lead. 
Notre Dame got its only other runs in the sixth inning when senior shortstop Alec Porzel reached second on a dropped fly ball by left fielder Geremy Hoover. 
With two outs in the inning, Billmaier, who was two for three on the day. got his sec­ond RBI with a base hit up the middle. The next batter, junior catcher Andrew Bushey, pro­vided the Irish with one more insurance run with a base hit that scored Bilhnaier from sec­ond. 
Coach Mainieri feels his club is ready to begin Big East play on Friday. 
"I think our pitching and defense can really limit the potential of any offense we may face," he said. "And our hitting has really improved over the past games. We are starting to get some big hits at key times to win ball games." 
The Irish begin conference play Friday at Pittsburgh. Their next home game is Tuesday against Western Michigan. 


DOMUS PROPERTIES HAS A10 BEDROOM HOUSE 

.. 
·4 BATH, 3KITCHENS 
-BIG COMMON ROOM WITH BAR 
-VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -NEAR OTHER STUDENT HOUSES -SECURITY SYSTEM -WASHER & DRYER 
CONTACT KRAMER 
-HEAT INCLUDED IN RENT 
(219) 
298-9673 CELL PHONE (219) 234-2436 OFFICE 

(219) 
674-2572 VOICE MAIL 


ALSO LEASING HOUSES FOR 2002-2003 SCHOOL YEAR 

Want to make some money. Copy edit for the Observer Call 631-4543 





The Observer~ PAID'ADVERTISEMENT page 21 
10:00 am Registration at South Dining Hall East 

Sign Up for Workshops Bagels, pastries, coffee, juice, etc. will be provided 
10:30 am Kickoff Prayer Service @ SDH 

Led by Fr. Bill ~ck, CSC and Gary Daigle 
11:40 am Workshops@ Coleman-Morse Center 

12:50 pm Lunch@SDH 
1:30 pm Keynote by Fr. Mike Baxter @ SDH 
2:30 pm Workshops @ Coleman-Morse Center ... 
3:40 pm Wrap-Up Reflection with Brett Perkins@ SDH 
4:45 pm Closing Mass@ SDH 
---...------­
page 22 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, March 22, 2001 
I . 
' ­
) 
' 
I 
I 
Monday. February 26 throvgh March 26 
Sign-up Freshman Retreat #35 (March 30-31. 2001) Pick up applications at 114 Coleman-Morse Center or print one out online at 
www.nd.edu/ ,-,mfoistrylfreshmanform.html 
Monday. March 5 through March 30 
Sign-up Senior Retreat #6 (April 6-7, 2001) Pick up application.s at 114 Coleman-Morse Center or print one out online at at www.nd.edu/ ... ministry/seniorfonn.htmJ 
Monday, March 19 through March 23 
Sign-up Senior Retreat #66 (April 20-22, 2001) Pick up applications at I 14 Coleman-Morse Center or print one out onliue at 
at WUIUI, tui.edul ,-,ministrylndeform.html 
Friday, March 23. 8:00 p.m. Main Lounge. Coleman-Morse Center 
807 • A New Mass on Friday Nights 
Friday. March 23, 7:00 p.m. Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Matt Smith from Real World New Orleans 
Friday. March 23. 7:00 p.m. Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Matt Smith from Real World Ne'IV Orleans 
Sautrday, March 24. 10:00 a.m. -6:00 p.m. Begins at South Dining Hall, Workshops in Coleman-Morse Center 
No Greater Love: a new lialf-day retreat. Open to Everyone. No Sign-ups required. 
Friday-Saturday. March 23-24. 7:00 p.m.Fatima Retreat Center 
Marriag~ Preparation Retreat #4 
Sunday. March 25, 11 :45 a.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
RCIAMass 
. Sunday, , March 25, 1 :30 p.m.Zahm Hall Chapel 
Spanish Mass Presider: Rev. J. Steele, csc 
Monday-Tuesday, March 26-27, 11 :30 pm-1 O:OOpm St. Paul's Chapel. Fisher Hall 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Tuesdav. March 27. 7:00 p.m. Badin Hall Chapel 
Campw Bible Study 
Wednesday, March 28. 6:30 p.m.Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
RCIA, Practice for Rite ofAcceptance 
Wednesday, March 28. 10:00 p.m. Morrissey Hall Chapel 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Fourth Sunday of Lent 
Weekend Presiders 
• Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Satur~y, March 24 Mass 
5:00p.m. 
Rev. John E. Conley, c.s.c. Sunday, March 25 Mass 
10:00 a.m. 
Rev. E. William Beauchamp, c.s.c. 
11:45 a.m. 
Rev. Mark L. Poorman, c.s.c. 
Scripture Readings for this Coming Sunday 
1st Reading  Jos 5; 9a, 10-12  
2nd Reading  1 Cor '5; 17-21  
Gospel  Lk 15: 1-3, 11-32  


More than just a pretty building 
by Frank Santoni 
The new Coleman-Morse center is more than the sum of its parts. Ir's more than new office space. Ir's more than new social space. It's certainly more than the free popcorn and drinks. It's even more than the impressive fountain with its 1,600-lb. floating granite orb. 
The new Coleman-Morse center represents more than just a collection of important University functions under one roof. From the tranquil interfaith prayer room on the first floor to the expansive Learning Resource Center on the second and rhe well-equipped choir rehearsal rooms on the third, the Coleman-Morse Center opens the doors co fresh and excit­ing new ways for all of us to enjoy the benefits of our university's great wealth of resources and dedicated staff. 
Campus Ministry would like to extend an invitation to all to come and explore our new home. There is so much to see and do. Interested in retreats? Stop in at the first floor Retreats and Spirituality office, Room 114. Want to get involved in any of the cross-cultural ministries? Check out the new Cross-Cultural Ministries across the hall in Room I02. While you're there, make sure you get a handful of popcorn or something to drink around the corner in the lounge. 
Upstairs on the third floor, in addition to the choir rehearsal rooms and staff offices, you'll find a religious education Resource Room and the new Campus Ministry Library (coming soon!) stocked with books, magazines, and music. Next semester, you might even find your­self attending a class held in the 100-seat classroom. 
Whatever the reason, whether you come to study on the first floor or are involved in a Campus Ministry activity on the third, ir is our hope that you feel as welcome as if you were in you own home. 
We've got the Love 
Likewise, this Saturday's No Greater Love is also greater than the sum of all of its many parts. No Greater Love is unlike anything else Campus Ministry sponsors all year and that fact makes it hard to describe. Let's start backward, by defining what No Greater Love is not. 
No Greater Love is not a series of theology lectures. No Greater Love is not a get-away­for-a-weekend, share-intimate-details-of-your-life-with-strangers retreat. And it's not a youth rally that aims to stir the audience to an emotional high through music and motivational speakers. 
Okay. So that's what it's not. We still haven't gotten to what it is. No Greater Love is an attempt at bringing 

--~..ai..::r

together all of the ele­ments that inspire and challenge us to think about our lives of faith and our relationships with . 
Christ and His church in ·. •·· fresh, new ways. The · / : · Notre Dame family is, at f. ' •· 
its heart, a community of .· ~/ ·. faith. And as that com­munity of faith, we will gather on Saturday to share with one another our mainy gifts in hopes that, in our very gather­ing, we will grow closer to each other as we grow closer to God. 
So, please join us this Saturday at the South Dining Hall beginning at 10:00 a.m. Break­fast will be available during workshop registration. Don't miss the morning prayer service led by Fr. Bill Wack and the student leadership ream. Be sure to stick around for the first round of workshops at 11 :30 at Coleman-Morse. Fr. Mike Baxter wil deliver the keynote after lunch at 1 :30 in SDH, followed by the second round of workshops at the Coleman-Morse Center. Senior Brett Perkins will be featured in the wrap-up reflection at 3:40 pm, followed by what will promise to be a rousing Closing Mass. Check the web at nd.edu/,.. nglove for details on the schedule and workshops. 
Everyone is welcome to join us this Saturday. The only prerequisite to participating at No Greater Love is an openness to explore your faith with others in an exciting new environment. 
(:.M
:f I 
Campus Ministry 

-~---­
Thursday, March 22, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 

Murphy 
continued from page 32 
he can play on a higher level, and get paid for it. 
As one of the premiere players in college basketball. the 6-foot­11 Murphy is a bull's eye for double-teams every time he steps on the court. With tougher NBA competition, he won't be the focus of other teams' defens­es, and while it's a tough jump to make, he's got to do ii some­time. 
On the days Murphy finishes below his average of 22 points and nine rebounds, he's consid­ered to be in a slump_ 
It was like that in Notre Dame's first round NCAA tour­nament game against Xavier. Although teammates Matt Carroll and David Graves went a combined 16-for-18 from the field, Murphy put up 19 points and the Irish won by a dozen, headlines in the New York Times still read "Murphy Stone­Cold.tt He'll face less public scrutiny in the NBA 
On the stay side? 
Earning a college degree. Finally getting two seasons beneath the same coach. Finishing out a four-year career with his close friends and Irish teammates, while potentially carrying Notre Dame to the Sweet 16 or even the Final Four_ Becoming the leading scorer in Notre Dame history and one of a select few players to earn All­American honors three times in their careers_ 
Murphy tasted March Madness this year, but maybe he'd like to get a better feel for it by playing until the end of March next year_ While just going to the Tourney was spe­cial. a trip to the Final Four would be unforgettable. With Murphy back, high school All­American Chris Thomas filling 
-Commerce and Beyonde Lecture Series 
http://www nd edu/9'o7Ekmatta/mgt648/speakers.t m 

February 2  Khalil Matta (Director, MIS Program, University of Notre Dame) ~overview of the Lecture series·  
February 9  Allen Hammond (CIO and Senior Scientist, World Resources Institute) -impact of Globalization·  
February 16  Joe McCarthy (Researcher, Accenture -Ctr. for Strategic Technology) ~ Awareness and Collaboration in the Workplace of the Future"  
February 23  Mike Mazarr (President, Henry L. Stimson Center) ~Sociology and Psychology of People in the Electronic Workplace"  
March 2  Greg Hedges (Partner, eBusiness Risk Consulting. Arthur Andersen * Privacy Concerns in the Electronic Age"  
March 23  Bob Reilly (President, OHR International) •New Age Leadership Skills" co-sponsored by "Leadership for Competitive Advantage and Personal Success" lecture series  
March 30  Gary Reiner (Senior VP and ClO, General Electric) "Technology and E-commerce OrganlzaHons: Future Directions·  
April6  Bob Buckman (Ret. Board Chairman and President. Buckman Labs) ~Knowledge Management in the New Millennium"  
April 20  Don Hesse (Chairman, President, CEO. Terabeam Networks) ~wireless and Optical Technologies and their Implications~  


All Notre Dame faculty, staff and students !Jn!vcrsltyof!'lotn, Dame 
Mendoza College ofBusiness
are welcome to attend 

"If he decides not to
high school of Cincinnati prospects come back, I'll be the spent four plan to leap years at the
first to congratulate
1.o the NBA, h. .. college level. 
zm.

combined Martin's been with experts' the most suc­predictions Mike Brey cessful in his on Murphy's rookie season.
head coach 
Bruno's Piua All-you-can-eat Buffet 
(Includes Drink) 
*Pizza *Pasta *Salad *Other Italian Dishes *Parties Welcome 

Every Thursday at 5 
2610 Prairie Avenue 
288-3320 
.. 
' 

' 
I 
' 
-' I I 
j
in for graduated senior point guard Martin Ingelsby and a deeper bench. the Irish would have a legitimate shot at getting there. 
Might be nice to he remem­bered as the guy who made it possible for the Irish. 
"This guy, we're going to ask him to recruit when he's here and after he leaves here," Brey said prior to the Big East Tournament. "He's our poster boy. He's the guy who got us hack in the NCAA Tournament. He's the guy who put us back on the college basketball radar screen. He's been what it's all about, the turnaround-'' 
Beyond Murphy's personal pros and cons about staying in school are considerations of what other top under­graduates or 
draft poten­tial. 
John Thompson of NBADraftHeport.com has Murphy rated as the fifth-best power forward at the college levet George Rodecker of CBSSportsline_com considers Murphy the player with the sec­ond-most pro potential at any position. 
Those projections rise and fall as underclassmen announce their intentions. NBA teams tend to value future potential nearly as highly as proven worth, and the younger the player, the more room for improvement. Height is another favorite among teams looking to draft players. 
"This young man has a heck of a business decision to make," Brey said. 
On the down side for Murphy is a slow finish to his season. He scored just eight points in Notre Dame's Big East Tournament loss to Pittsburgh, and'shot a combined 10-of-33 in the NCAA Tournament. On the up side, he's a proven commodity, hav­ing scored in single digits just twice in his college career. 
Seniors who might well be selected higher than Murphy include North Carolina's Brendan Haywood and Arizona's Loren Woods, both 7­0 or taller, Shane Battier of Duke and Iowa State point guard Jamaal Tinsley. Then there are the unknowns -for­eigners like 7 -6 Yao Ming of China and underclassmen con­sidering the draft such as board­crashing freshman Eddie Griffin of Seton Hall and All-American 

point guard Joe Forte of North Carolina. 
That's not even mentioning the wave of high school seniors leaning towards the draft -6-11 Eddie Curry, 7-footer DeSagana Dtop and California native Tyson Chandler, who at 7-0, declared Wednesday his plans to go pro. 
Plus there's history to consid­er_ 
Of the top 10 lottery selections 
in 2000, only 
No. 1 pick 
Kenyon Martin 
scoring 12 
points and 

pulling down eight rebounds per game. Mateen Cleaves and Mo Peterson both stayed at Michigan State through their senior seasons, just long enough to win a National Championship, and.both are getting substantial playing time in their first pro seasons. 
While everyone knows the success stories of Kobe Bryant and Kevin Garnett, both of whom were NBA players before turning 21, that's not always how it goes. Some of the early exits from college have been.. busts. No. 9 selection. 7-0 Joel Przybilla, who left Minnesota after his sophomore season, is scoring less than a point per game. 
Murphy plans to look at his options with his parents, Brey and his former MU coach Tony Sagona, but ultimately, the deci­sion is his. 
"We've got to recognize that this could be it for this young man." Brey said. "lfhe decides not to come back, I'll be the first to congratulate him." 
The opinions expressed in this coolumn are those ofthe author and note necessarily those of the Observer. 

page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March 22, 200 l 
at a significant disadvantage St. John's is when compared to Notre Dame also strong in and St. John's, who each quali-men's epee tied the maximum 12fencers. where they return two first 
r Although Notre Dame has tho team All-Americans in Doron advantage over Penn State and Levit and Alex Roytblat. Last Stanford, most Irish fencers year, Roytblat beat Irish sopho­and coaches believe St. John's more Jan Viviani in the semifi­is the favorite this year. nals but Viviani bounced back 
"By the names, they have the to beat Levit for third place. strongest team at the moment," A welcome improvement to assistant coach Janusz the Irish over the last few Bednarski said. weeks has been the fencing of 
The biggest name for St. epeeist Brian Casas. After earn­.John's is 1997 and 1999 sabre ing All-American honors in champion and 2000 Olympian 1999, Casas had a disappoint­Keeth Smart. The senior did not ing showing at the 2000 fence in collegiate competition Championships and struggled last season while he trained for for most the 2001 season. In 
•11JtA>e-l ()}ym:pic-s.. ,ibut hoetlhas the post-sea.sQn, however, returned to NCAA fen•g• his ih<f;a.sas has been. .rae1;1rly unstop­year to post a 19-1 record. pable -taking first place in 
Smart's teammate Ivan Lee is both the Midwest Conference nearly as talented as Smart. and Regional Championships. The sophomore posted a 26-1 In both tournaments he defeat­record after finished third in ed teammate Viviani. who sabre at last year's NCAA earned first team All-American championships. honors last year. 
Men's sabre is also a strong "Brian is back" head coach weapon for the Irish,. Two-time Yves Auriol said. "It's good to All-American Andrezj see him fencing well again." Bednarski and Andre Crompton The Red Storm and Irish have both qualified for the men's foil teams are also evenly 
I I I 
I 
I The O'Brien-Smith 
t 
I I I I 
I Visiting Scholars Program Presents: 
' I 
t ­
I 
' 
I I I 
MICHAEL BRENNAN 

I 
' I 
Goldyne and Irwin Hearsh Professor

I I I 
t 
of Banking and Finance University of California at Los Angeles 

i I . 
I I I 
''Lifetime Asset Allocation'' 
Monday, March 26, 2001 1:30-3:00pm Auditorium Heaburgh Center for International Studies Univesity of Notre Dame 
THE PUBLIC IS WELCOME TO ATTEND FOR INPORMATION: 631.3277 

' ­
'I I FENCING
'I 
t 
I 
t 
t 
t 
I Irish favored to defeat Nitanny Lions in NCAAs 
I I I 
I 
t Championships for the Irish. matched. Notre Dame features The Irish women's team, how­ignore the pressure and the I I By MIKE CONNOLLY Crompton will be called upon to first team All-American Ozren ever, is weaker than the men's scoreboard, they can hold the Sports Writer fill the role of 2000 sabre Debic and 2000 NCAA qualifier and ranked only fifth nationally. lead. champion Gabor Szelle who has Forrest Walton while St. John's The women's team does not "We won't have a lot of pres­RACINE, Wisc. not fenced for nearlv a month. sends 1999 first team All­feature the stars and first team sure on us if we don't look at 
First the first time in seven Although Crompton has never American Jonathan Tiomkin All-Americans that the men that stupid scoreboard," vears, Notre Dame enters the competed at the NCAA and 2000 second team All­have. McCullough said. "My goal for National Fencing Championships before, he is American Joseph Fisher. The St. John's women have the weekend is not to look at it. Championships in an unfamiliar familiar with Smart and Lee After finished second to more big name fencers than the I don't want to know where we position -the Irish are expect-and believes he can beat them. Stanford's Felix Reichling in Notre Dame women, but the stand. I don't want to know cd Lo defeat the Penn State The three of them have been 2000, Debic hopes to win the Irish feel they are a more bal­where I stand because I don't Nittany Llrms. training together for seven individual foil crown and finally anced team than the Red Storm. want to see any kind of lead 
Since Notre Dame's last years and Crompton has beaten defeat Reichling. "St. John's is a strong team," falling." national title in 1994, the Irish both of them this year. "There is always room for sabre captain Cari McCullough While St. John's will be the have finished third once and "We actually trade bouts and improvement," Debic said. "I said. "They have some stars but main competition for the Irish, second five times. All six times, go back and am defi­I think we are more balanced. they are certainly not writing Penn State has won the nation-forth," the nitely bet­Our women's team is more bal­off Stanford or Penn State
"The key for us is for the 
al title. Notre Dame ter than the anced than they are. I think that because they only have 11 
But in 2001, everything has junior said. "We ment to come out and last two gives us more of a shot than qualifiers. Last year St. John's changed. Notre Dame is one of know how each dominate the first two times. I am most people give us credit." qualified just 11 fencers and only two teams to qualify 12 other fence looking for­McCullough will be competing tied for second with Notre
days."
fencers for the Championships. from the club. ward to in her second Championship but Dame -just four bouts behind Penn State and Stanford, two We actually that bout, for her teammate Destanie Milo, Penn State. perennial fencing power hous-grew up fencing Andre Compton that's for this weekend's tournament will _ "They are going to be there," es, qualified only 11 fencers are together." sure." be her first NCAA experience. Auria! said. "Penn State is
fencer 
The men Milo and foilist Maggie Jordan going to be a contender even will open will each be competing in the with 11 fencers. It's going to be t h e Championship for the first time more difficult but they still 
Championships on Thursday but the other four Irish quali­have a chance." and Friday. After defeating St. fiers fenced in the "They are going to be good,'' John's in the regular season, Championship last year. Debic said. "They are going to the Irish expect to build a lead In addition to McCullough, cause a lot of problems but I on the first two days and hope foilist Liza Boutsikaris and don't think they are going to be the women can hold it on epeeists Meagan Call and Anna a threat to the championship. Saturday and Sunday. Carnick will all make their sec­Stanford is a bigger threat. 
"The key for us is for the men ond appearance at the NCMs. This year is going to be differ­to come out and dominate the That experience is critical, ent because there won't be two first two days and then have the according to McCullough. strong teams. There are going women fence their butts off and "It's great that most of us are to be five equally strong teams keep us close," Crompton said. returners," she said. "You {St. John's, Notre Dame, Penn "If we do that we should be already know what to expect. It State, Stanford and Princeton alright." is so valuable to realize that who qualified 10 fencers} and every touch counts. As long as good people are going to drop you realize that, you have a bouts because the competition
Women bring experience, bal­
much better chance of winning is going to be tougher." ance more bouts." The Championships beginBuilding the lead shouldn't be 
McCullough believes the key today at 8 a.m. and continue too much of a problem. The to holding the lead the men are through Sunday at the 
men's team is undefeated and expected to build on the first University of Wisconsin­
ranked No. 1 in the country. day is focus. If the women Parkside. 
You are Invited to a Special Session 
on 

Women and Study Abroad 
With Carmen Nanni, Assistant Director, International Study Programs 
Susan Albers, University Counseling Center 
Returnees ofthe Programs 
Stereotypes ofAmerican Women Gender and Culture Travel and Safety Culture Shock Health Issues 
March 22, 2001 5:30-7:00pm 
141 DBRT 


-

Thursday, March 22, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
I'm out there," said Tamayo. 

MLB
"I try to setup my pitches, and

Ta01ayo 
remember what I had thrown to a batter earlier in the

continued from page 32 
game." Ta.mayo's rehabilitation, then As a senior, Tamayo hopes 
Henson heads back to New York 
Mississippi State showed he he can be a leader for the had returned to his place as a younger players, including top pitcher for the Irish. friend and fellow Miami native ager Jim Bowden said. "He was hood that Deion Sanders
Associated Press 
"Mississippi State was the Javier Sanchez. 
very clear on bis position that to another football-baseball· play: solidifying point f'or me," said "The first thing is to lead by RADENTON, Fla. play baseball, you'd have to er, will be added to the Reds'
Tamayo. "I was back al that example," said Tamayo. "I 
Drew Henson is back with the match what he would get in roster after Mav 1, when he'spoint." hope l am showing them how only baseball team that can football. His agent told us at the eligible to be called up.
And he hasn't looked back. to represent Notre Dame." 
lure him away from the NFL. beginning of spring training Sanders pinch ran and scored
Tamayo has settled into the With the Notre Dame's No. 8 
Now he'll have to decide that we'd have about a 20 per-a run Wednesday in an 8-5 losssec:ond starter position behind ranking comes pressure, and whether he wants to be a quar-cent chance that we would be to Pittsburgh in Bradenton. He
Aaron Tamayo 
terback or a third baseman. able to sign him." said before the game that he
lleilman, and recognizes 
The Cincinnati H.eds traded The agreement was reached empathized with Henson's
t)1~ high

has posted "/ hope I am showing {the 
Henson back to the New York Tuesday and completed after predicament: having to pick one
impressive hopes for 
Yankees on Wednesday along all of the players passed physi-sport over another. with outfielder Michael cals on Wednesday. Henson "I know there's a lot of people 
numbers in younger players] how to this year's 
his senior represent Notre Dame. " team. 
Coleman in exchange for out-began spring football practice saying, 'You need to be this,
"I think aseason in his 

fielder Wilv Mo Pena. at Michigan last weekend, and you need to be that,' and a
first five r.ertain
Danny Tamayo 

The cost-conscious Reds also had his physical in Tampa on majority of those people have
amount of

starts. 
got $1.9 million from the Wednesday, the Wolverines' not tried either sport, let alone
pitcher

Tamavo is a pressure is 
Yankees to cover the bulk of <lay off, and worked out at the two simultaneously," said
control.pitch­good." said 
Pena's contract. He's still owed Yankees· minor league com-Sanders, who's also a corner­
er in the tra-Tamayo. 
$2.2 million from the deal he plex. back for the Washington 
:.J.
dition of Greg "But a lot of signed with New York in 1999. The Yankees drafted Henson Redskins. 'Td just tell him to goMaddux. relying on placement people think we're not that Henson came to the Reds last out of high school in 1998, but with his heart.
and mixing speeds to get outs. good because we're a north­July as part of the deal for left-couldn't get him to commit Lo "I think you should let your"Danny's a very smart pitch­ern team, so we have some­hander Denny Neagle, The baseball. He led Michigan to a game decide what you want to
er." said Mainieri. "He gets thing Lo prove." 
Yankees reluctantly traded 9-3 record and No. 11 ranking do. One game is going to jumpahead in counts and forces ror now, Tamayo is focused Henson, one of their top laSt season. out maybe a little more thanhitters to swing the bat." on winning for the Irish, not prospects, after he refused to Henson had planned to keep the other game, and you'll see a
Tamayo has a four-pitch on any future after Notre 
commit to playing baseball. his ~ase~all options ope~ by little more vividly which way
repertoire, with a fastball. Dame. The elbow injury 
..Our intent is to convince him playmg m the Reds' mmor you should .lean.O,
curve, changeup, and a robbed him of his entire recently developed cut fast­sophomore season and part of 
to play b~seball, that..s alway~ ~ leagu~s.· this ._sum 1:i.ei::,.1J4en .'rl·J· ,fAn3i,_191~~c;.-.~~WS.~wii··.}.·n t~e bee1: ou.; mtent when we draft, ·'.~ re~ur?'mg for, his\~!m1~r1 y.ea.. r a~irr'~.:'. ~.. q.ft~G gt\tF_p:ig:111 ~.~,·;71~­ball. According to Tamayo. the his junior season, making him ed hllll, Yankees general man-'Michig~n. ··:u :11fu· , II -r"-"' ..·1-Jion;ifive~year COJ).triµ;t,'/iom,Jhe 
cut fastball has given him somewhat unknown in the 
ager Brian Cashman said. Despite rmssmg the first 3 1/2 Yankees in 1999. The deal morn options on the mound professional baseball world. 
"That has not changed. There is games with a broken foot, included a $2.44 million signing and the ability to throw inside "I try not to think about the no guarantee we'll be able to do He~on completed 61.6 percent bonus and base salaries of to lefthanders more effective­draft," said Tamayo. 'Tm so. There's a risk here, one 0~ hrs passes for 2,146 yards $260,000 this season, $280,000
ly. basically coming out of 
we're willing to assume." with_ 18 touc~downs and only in 2002 and $300,000 in 2003. 
He has thrown it consistent­nowhere and not many people Henson can play at Michigan four mtercep~10ns last s~ason. Coleman, an outfielderly this season, though less fre­know about me, because I've for one more year and would be Hens~n hrt .266 with nine acquired in the offseason fromquently than his other pitches. only pitched two years in col­a top pick in the NFL draft the homers m 308 at-bats last sea-Boston for Chris Stynes, missed Mainieri believes Tamavo's lege." 
following April. The Reds knew son, mostly in Double-A. He most of last season with a bro­
fastball is his core pitch. Tamayo has started just ten 
when they got Henson that he s~ruggled after_ the trade, bat-ken wrist, but is healthy this
Though the right-hander does games for the Irish, and in 
might never play for them. tmg only .172 m 16 games for season. He is a .267 career hit-not throw it with overwhelm­many ways is just starting to 
"Drew and I had some con-the Reds' Double-A ter with 87 homers and 318
ing velocity, his ability to place find his groove in the three­versations," Reds general man-Chattanooga_teamJcu4 . i!J cu;,RB,Ls im:d62foi:LljlMltlIO leii!gue
it wherever he wants allows man rotation. 
(!(•)_' The aea!l' ii\%i'eases! th'e-•fiR:eli.?.lfl ga!t1feSJ1 AA;w1 OJ bsmuJs-1 
,. _r• ' .. J his change and curve. man," said Tamayo. 'Tm lov­
"I try to think ahead when ing every minute of it." 
him to get strikes and setup "I almost feel like a fresh­
The San Patricios 
Mexico's Fighting Irish 
~ .. · 

. .• ·_·,,, ' . . ·,· . . :i::~#.: Get a jump on your degree~or wrap up a required course· · ·' or two-at Loyola University Chicago's Summer Sessions. You'll have a top-quality academic experience at a premier national university ranked a "best value'' by U.S. News and World Report. 
Early Session: May 21 • June 29 Late Session: July 2 -August 10 Extended Session: May 18 -August 11 
• 
Take the courses you want-including upper­level classes you can't get at community colleges. 

• 
Choose from four Chicago-area campuses, or learn online at our virtual campus. 

• 
Pick your own schedule from our array of day, evening, weekend and online courses.


·raid Poyo 
• Enjoy the best of Chicago in the summertime, Many of our courses specially incorporate the city's great business and cultural resources. 
At Loyola,-you'n get the same -personal attention we-­
provide to our full-time students-in courses taught by 
the same top-notch professors you'll find in our class­
rooms year-round. Visit our Web site to learn more
Luke Gibbons 
about Loyola-and apply today! 

Irish Studies 
SIIMMe" Sessions 2001 
Loyola University Chicago 
\IWW.Ll(ll,ed11/aaadeMiCS/Sl(MM91'/ids
ETS Theater, McKenna Hall Basement Thursday, March 22 
Chic<1.go's Jesuit University 

4:00 PM LOYOLA 
Call today! 
~.,.,~ UNIVERSITY Presented by: ~ ~ CHICAGO 1-800-7-LOYOLA 
~ .;i 0~ ,.r.:i
'i?J,r, p'<· Summer Sessions 

Institute for Latino Studies Keough Institute for Irish Studies 
I 
Thursday, March 22, 2001
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Louisville hoopsters to welcoIDe Pitino 
A&sociated Pren 
LOUISVILLE. Ky. 
Hick Pitino became Louisvillo's basketball coach Wednesday. returning to the state where he won a national r.hampionship in 1996. 
Pitino and his family arrived to enthusiastic cheers at an evening news conference and pep rally to introduce him as coar.h. 
"Now it's my time to lead the Cardinals back to prominence." Pitino said. 
Pitino. who won the national title as coach of the Kentucky Wildcats, resigned as coach and president of the Boston Celtics in .January after 3 1/2 disap­pointing seasons. 
llis hiring at Louisville follows a bold, aggressive courtship by athletic director Tom Jurich, who acted as a one-man search committee. Jurich said two weeks ago that Pitino was his only candidate for the job. 
Pitino, who was courted by Michigan and other schools, said wife Joanne helped con­vince him to take the Louisville job. 
He said she told him. "I think that you love the state of Kentucky; you love the people you met at U. of L. I think you should go back to the place you love." 
He said he almost decided to take the Michigan job Wednesday morning. 
Jurich flew to Pitino's Miami home on March 9 and persuad­ed him to visit the Louisville campus last week. 

Pitino left impressed, but said he wanted to consult his family before making a decision. He worked the NCAA Midwest Regional in Dayton, Ohio, as an analyst for CBS before flying to Boston to meet his family Sunday night. 
Pitino replaces Hall of Fame coach Denny Crum. who retired after months of strained rela­tions with Jurich. The 64-year­old Crum, who led Louisville to NCM championships in 1980 and '86, had two seasons left on his contract. but accepted a $7 million buyout. 

Speculation began immediate­ly that Pitino was Jurich's top choice, and even former Louisville players voiced sup­port. 
.Jurich called a news confer­ence March 6 to confirm he was pursuing Pitino. When Pitino expressed interest, some Kentucky fans said they were angry that Pitino would even consider coaching the Wildcats' rival. 
Knight named Texas Tech coach 
Associated Press 
LUBBOCK. Texas 
Bob Knight will be named Texas Tech's coach Friday fol­lowing a whirlwind courtship that began four days before Tech tired James Dickey. 
Tech spokes­woman Cindy Rugeley said ath­1 e t i C director Gerald Myers 

Knight
told her 
Wednesday he would recom­mend his friend of 30 years for the job. 
"I didn't know that he had made his recommendation, but I don't thlnk anything has happened that would change his mind," she said. "I fully anticipate calling a press con­ference tomorrow." 
University President David Schmidly said Wednesday he would follow Myers' recom­mendation. 
Knight can be named as Tech's coach as soon as a 10­day waiting period expires at 2 
p.m. Friday. Dickey was fired on March 9. 
Late Wednesday night, Schmidly said he received Myers' written recommenda­
tion but wouldn't disclose the contents. Rugeley said Myers told her his intentions Wednesday afternoon. 
Schmidly seemed to be in agreement with Myers' recom­mendation following a rather tame faculty senate meeting that was expected to bring vehement opposition, but instead brought a discourse about how Knight would fit into the universitv and how the university wo~ld handle anv misbehavior. 
· ,;What better thing could happen for Texas Tech," Schmidly said of Knight com­ing to Tech following the hour­long meeting. 
''I like the fact that he doesn't violate NCAA rules and that's the way he chooses to win," Schmidly said. "We've had a problem with NCAA penalties. And that's set this institution back. We don't ever want to be on thfl wrong side of the NCAA rules again." 
Schmidly also said he expects the respect and admi­ration Knight has for Myers to prevent any outbursts like those reported during the coach's 29 years at Indiana. 
Knight, 60, was fired from Indiana last fall after he grabbed a student's arm. Indiana officials said the act violated a zero-tolerance behavior policy. 
"One thing that has weighed closely in my mind is his respect and admiration for my athletic director," Schmidly said. 
Myers wouldn't say what his recommendation was, but one of Tech's regents earlier this week said if' he was to make a bet he would bet on Knight being named by week's end. 
Once Schmidly approves Myers' recommendation, Tech Chancellor John Montford will be asked to concur -an action that is seen merely as a formality. 
Montford then would be responsible for informing Tech's Board of Regents. The regents can approve or disap­prove of any hire, but lack the power to veto. 
About 100 of the university's 900 faculty members have signed a petition criticizing Knight's behavior and advising against his hiring. 
During the meeting, faculty members asked questions about whether Knight would he treated differently from other faculty members. how university officials would han­dle any misbehavior, and how hiring such a controversial fig­ure could affect the universi­ty's image. 
"My concern is even before the man is named, there is controversy," said Marc Giccardo, an assistant profes­sor of architecture. 

Thursday, March 22, 200 I The Observer . SPORTS page 27 
NHL 
Nielson scores final goal in Blue Jacket stalemate 
Associated Press 
Chris Nielsen, called up ear­lier in the day, scored the tying goal in tho third period as the Columbus Blue Jackets tied the Vancouver Canucks on Wednesday night. 
Nielsen's backhand flip high over the glove of goalie Dan Cloutie1· with 10:29 remaining was his fourth of Lhe season ­and third against Vancouver in as many games. 
Daniel Sedin's 20th goal aL l 1 :50 of the first period put thr. Canucks ahead 1-0. 
Vancouver, which had won the first three meetings with the expansion Blue Jackets, dropped to 26-1-4-2 when leading after two periods. Columbus improved to 1-26-2­2 when trailing heading into thn final period. 
Each team had a prime scor­ing opportunity in the last 10 seconds. 
Columbus had a 3-on-1. with Lyle Odelein's shot coming off the heel of his stick and sliding meekly to the right of the goal. 
The Canucks skated right back down the ice. with Todd Bertuzzi's slap shot from the right wing catching the cross­bar as the final horn sounded. 
Cloutier turned away 32 shots and moved to 1-0-3 in his last four starts. 
Columbus' Hon Tugnutt, the league's player of the week with two shutouts last week, had 33 saves. 
Vancouver came in ranked 27th in the NHL in penalty killing. but killed four Columbus power plays in the second period alone. The Canucks have killed 37 of 41 power plays in the last seven­plus games. 
There were seven seconds left on a Canucks' power play when Trent Klatt fired a pass through· the crease that Sedin jammed in. 
Lightning 4, Thrashers 3 
Brad Richards scored with 
6:15 remaining to lift the Tampa Bay Lightning to a 4-3 victory over the Atlanta Thrashers. 
The Lightning continued their late-season surge with their sixth win in seven games. 
Richards' goal was set up when Martin St. Louis won a battle for the puck behind the Atlanta net. St. Louis passed in front to Richards, whose quick wrister easily beat goalie Norm Maracle. It was Richards' 20th goal of the sea­son. 
Atlanta's Herbert Vasiljevs deflected Steve Staios' slap shot into the net with 11:53 to play to tie it at 3-3 before Richards' game-winner. 
The Lightning trailed 2-0 in the first period, but came back behind goals from Vincent Lecavalier, Ryan Johnson and Fredrik Modin. 
The Thrashers, who have struggled on offense since 

leading scorer Donald Audette was traded to Buffalo last week, grabbed the two-goal lead in the first period. 
Patrik Stefan had the puck on a 2-on-1 break with Tomi Kallio, drew the defense to him and passed to a wide open Kallio -who rifled in his 13th goal at 6:39. 
Panthers 3, Maple Leafs 1 
Kevyn Adams scored twice and Pavel Bure recorded his league-leading 56th goal in the Florida Panthers' victory over the Toronto Maple Leafs. 
Bure, who has 11 goals in his last six games, needs four over the last seven to record 60. No NHL player has recorded a 60­goal season in the last four years. Bure has two 60-goal seasons, both with Vancouver (1992-93 and 1993-94.) 
The Leafs didn't protect Adams in the 2000 expansion draft. Columbus selected him and traded him to Florida at last week's trading deadline. 
Bure assisted on Adams' sec­ond goal, giving Florida a 3-1 lead with 6:07 left in the third. 
Gary Roberts scored a power-play goal for the Leafs, who have slipped to seventh in the Eastern Conference playoff race. The Leafs, who have lost two straight, were booed as the final buzzer sounded. 
Devils 4, Rangers 0 
The New Jersey Devils kept two long streaks alive with one easy victory. 
Alexander Mogilny and Jason Arnott scored second­period goals 92 seconds apart, as the Devils extended their franchise-record winning streak to 12 games and their unbeaten streak against the New York Rangers to 23 with a victory. 
New Jersey, 15-0-8 against the Rangers since 1997, is just five shy of the NHL record 17 consecutive victories set by the 1992-93 Pittsburgh Penguins. 
Martin Brodeur had to make only 11 saves in recording the 50th shutout of his eight-year career, ranking him fourth among active goaltenders. It was also his eighth this season, one shy of the league-lead shared by Dominik £1:astr}cpf Buffalo and 'Roman Cechmanek of Philadelphia. 

Scott Stevens added his ninth goal of the season with the teams playing 4-on-4 late in the third period. Arnott added his second power-play goal of the night with 3:35 to play on a 5-on-3 advantage. 
The game ended with Sandy McCarthy and Devils captain Scott Stevens standing toe-to­toe at center ice throwing overhand bombs. 
The Devils' previous low was 13, set just two nights earlier in a 4-2 win over Calgary. The Rangers previous low was 15 in a 6-1 loss to Dallas on Now Year's Eve. 
Have a real cool birthdayI Hayyy 19th! 
Love, 
Mom, Dad, and Rachel 
Thursday, March 22 
5:00 p.m.-6:00 p.m. Romance Language Department's Italian Coffee Hour, Decio 131 
7:00 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, "Closed Country: Snite Museum* 
7:00 
p.m. "Manufacturing Advantage: The Effects of High Performance Work Practices for Firms and Workers" by Peter Berg, C-103, Hesburgh Center for International Studies 

7:00 
p.m. "Conceptualizing Diversity in Higher Education for a New Millennium", lecture, McKenna Half 


7:30 p.m. Bishop Gumbelton speaking, "From Violence to Compassion: can a Christian fight in "Just" War?", Coleman-Morse Center 24 hour lounge 
8:00 p.m. Viewing of "American History X", Keenan Hall Basement 
8:00 
p.m. Notre Dame Glee Oub Spring Concert, Washington Hall* 

8:00 
p.m. SUB Oscar Film Festival, "Titanic", DeBartolo 155 


8:30 
p.m.-10:30 p.m. Open Rec Lacrosse, Court 1, RSRC 

8:30 
p.m.-Midnight ND Express Billiards games open, Lafortune Student Center 


9:00 p.m. Acoustic cafe, Lafortune Student Center Huddle 
10:00 p.m. -Midnight Stepan Center: Open 
Play Basketball and Volleyball 
10:30 p.m. Movie, "O Brother, Where Art Thou?: DeBartolo 101* 

Friday, March 23 
5:00 p.m. -7:30 p.m. A Taste of Nations, CSC Classroom (event starts at 5:00 p.m.) 
6:00 p.m. -Midnight Stepan Center: Open Play Basketball and Volleyball 
6:00 p.m. International Film Festival, "Walking Ned Devine", Lafortune Student Center Montgomery Theatre 
7:00 
p.m. Matt Smith, national spokesperson for Ufeteen, Lecture and Musical Performance, "No Greater Love", Hesburgh Library Audito­rium 

7:00 
p.m. Farley Hall Players presents "Chance Love", Lafortune Student Center Ballroom* · 

7:00 
p.m. International Sports Tournament, RSRC 


7:00 p.m.-10:00 p.m. Open Rec Badmin­ton, Court 2, RSRC 
7:00 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, "17 Rue St Racre Au Revoir /es Enfants: Snite Museum* 
8:00 
p.m. Nazz, Battle of Bands, Alumni Senior Club* 

8:00 
p.m. International Film Festival, "Leningrad Cowboys Go America", Lafortune · Student Center Montgomery Theatre 

8:00 
p.m. Notre Dame Glee Club Spring Concert, Washington Hall* 

8:00 
p.m . Movie, ''O Brother, Where Art Thou?~ De Bartolo 101* and SUB Oscar Film Festival, "Shakespeare In Love" OeBartolo 155* 


8:07 p.m. 807 Friday Night Mass, Coleman­Morse, First Hall Lounge 
8:30 p.m.-Midnight ND Express Billiards games open, LaFortune Student Center 
10:30 p.m. Movie, ''O Brother, Where Art Thou?: DeBartolo 101* 
Saturday, March 24 
6:00 p.m. Stepan Center: Open Play Basket­ball and Volleyball 
7:00 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, "Three Days in April: Snite Museum* 
7:30 p.m. Culture Fest, Part of International Week, Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
8:00 p.m. Movie, "O Brother, Where Art Thou?: DeBartolo 101* and SUB Oscar Film Festival, "American Beauty", DeBartolo 155* 
8:30 p.m.-Mldnight ND Express Billiards games open, Lafortune Student Center 
9:30 p.m. ND at Night, An evening of Acoustic Entertainment, Alumni Senior Club 

10:30 p.m. Movie, "O Brother, Where Art Thou?: DeBartolo 101* 
*Denotes admission charge for ND/SMC students 
Programs are subject to change without notice. j 
j 
j 
l 
l 
~ l 
1 
.
I 
l l 
' 
I I 
-l
This ad is compiled and published by the I 
I 
Student Activities Office, I 
I 
315 LaFortune Student Center. I I I ( I 
! 
page 28 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March 22, 2001 

Asso.ciateJ Press 
llALEIGH, N.C. 
The man with the most 
games in goal over the last two NIIL seasons insists he's rresh for his tnam's playoff run. 
To prove it. Carolina goalie Arturs Irbe won a battle with c:ountcrpart Oominik Hasek on Wednesday night as the Hurricanes beat the Buffalo Sabres 1-0. 
David Tanabe scored late in the second period and lrbe, playing in his NHL-high 67th game, stopped 26 shots for his sixth shutout of the season. 
"In the third period we threw everything we had al them," Buffalo coach Lindy Huff said of his team's 1l shots in the final 20 minutes. 

I "Irbe stood tall. lrbe won I them a bockoy game."' Carolina snapped Buffalo's
' .
I 
I four-game winning streak and I moved !'our points ahead of t Boston for the eighth and linal
'I 
playoff position in the Eastern

.
' I Confornnce. Eact1 warn has 10 I games remaining.' "We added a little bit to the
'I 
I cushion, but the cushion is I pretty darn hard right now,"
•
t Irbe said. The Ilurricanes are also clos-
I 
NHL 
Irbe and Carolina 
win battle of goalies 
ing in on slumping Toronto, trailing the Maple Leafs by five points with three games in hand for the seventh seed in lhe East. 

"Tho big difference between being five games over .500 and chasing are the wins aren't as big and the losses aren't as big," Carolina coach Paul Maurice said. "We're happy we won the game. We'll move for­ward. Mentally, that takes less of a toll on your team." 
Irbe's shutout was the 30th of his career and 17th in three seasons with the Hurricanes. The sixth shutout also tied a single-season team record set by Irbe two years ago. 
lrbe played a career-best 75 games last year, and will likely start in Carolina's final 10 games, meaning he will have played in 68 of the team's final 70 games. 
"I think I can take it, and I'll take as much as needed to make the playoffs and we'll go from there," lrbe said. 
"This is the best thing in 
hockey, that's why we play," 
lrbe added when asked if he 
liked being the team's go-to 
guy. "If you don't want to be 
the man you probably shouldn't 
be in the NHL. Every kid 
dreams of being the guy." 


NEED CASH? 
NEW DONORS EARN $20 TODAY 

MENTION THIS AD 
FORA$5.00 BONUS 
Up to $1 45.00 a month in 2-4 hours a week 

SERA CARE PLASMA 
234-6010 515 LINCOLNWAYWEST 

Write for Sports Call19t631-4543 
Undergrads and Grad Students! 
Bea part of Summer 
Experience 
2001  a pre-college  
program  
July  8  -Ju I y  2 8  for rising  

•

high school seniors Needed: Female 
t 
t 
.
I l 
.I 
,' 
I 
. 
I 
' 
I ' .
I 
ECDC Registration 
The Early Childhood Development Center, located at the 
University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College, is now accepting 2001 Summer Registration for children ages three through six and 2001-2002 School Year Registration for children ages two through five. Both part time and full time enrollment schedules are available. For more information, please call one of the numbers below. 
Early Childhood Development Center, Inc. 
Please call · 
631-3344 
or 

_;;·-~ ....----'.~. 284-4693 


Pick up your a pp Ii cation at: 
u N I v E R s I T y o F 
NOTRE DAME 
Pre•College Programs 
and Male Resident Counselors 
Office of Pre-College Programs 206 Brownson Hall or call 1-9381 for more information about position requirements 
and compensation 
www.nd.edu/~precoll 
L EE 3d 
Thursday, March 22, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 29 
TENNIS 
Irish return to top after win 
Special to d,e Observer 
The Notre Dame men's ten­nis team. following its win at the Blue-Gray National Classic last week, have returned to the top 10 of t~e Intercollegiate Tennis Association rankings for the first time since 1993 -the last time the Irish claimed the Blue-Gray title. Notre Dame defeated Tulane, Rice. Auburn and Fresno State last week to move from Nu. 22 in the rank­ings to No. 10. 
The Irish also improved to 13-2 on the season with the four wins for their best start since the 1992 NCAA finalist team also began the year 13­
2. After beginning the season with a 3-2 record, Notre Dame has put together a 10­match winning streak -its longest since winning 14 straight in 1990. 
Five of the 10 wins have been shutout victories with a total score of 50-9 in those 10 wins. Notre Dame boasts a 62-18 combined dual-match singles record, with at f!ve players having at le11:st n~ne dual-match singles v1ctones in 15 matches. Sophomore Brian Farrell leads the team with a 12-2 singles record in dual matches. while freshman Matthew Scott is 10-1. The trio of juniors -No. 1 singles player Casey Smith, No. 2 Javier Taborga and No. 4 Aaron Talarico -each have won nine dual matches, while freshman Luis Haddock­Morales has won eight. 

With the Irish women's team ranked seventh for the third consecutive week, Notre Dame stands as one of four schools (joined by Duke, Georgia, Stanford) with both its men's and women's teams ranked among top 10 teams in the country. It also marks the first time both Irish programs have been in the top 10 at the same time. 

After an 11-day break fol­lowing the Blue-Gray National Classic championship, the 10th-ranked Irish return to the court when they play host to 18th-ranked Illinois in a 
4:00 p.m. home match on March 29. 
I 

ATTENTION: OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS OFF-CAMPUS FORMAL FRIDAY MARCH 30TH @SENIOR BAR 
$10 per couple $5 indiv. ticket 

TICKETS WILL BE SOLD: TUES 3/27 3-5 pm WED 3/28 3-5 pm in Debartolo Computer Lab Lounge 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

McGraw earns coach of the year 

Associated Press 
Muffet McGraw, who led Notre Dame's women's bas­ketball program to its win­ningest season ever, is the 
N a i ­smith coach of 
t  h  e  
year.  
T  h  e  

Irish, ranked No. 2. 
are 30-2 McGraw and in t h e round of 16 in the NCAA tournament for the fourth time in five years. The top­seeded Irish will face Utah in the Midwest Regional semifi­nals Saturday. · 

McGraw, in her 14th year at the school, is 318-117 (.731). The Irish were ranked No. 1 for the first time ever this season and won a share of the Big East regular-season title. Notre Dame won a school-record 23 straight games. 
Overall, McGraw has been a college coach for 19 years, posting a 406-158 (.720) mark. 
She also was Women's Basketball Coaches Association Coach of the Year. 
The Naismith Awards pro­gram is sponsored by the Atlanta Tipoff Club. She and Notre Dame All-American center Ruth Riley, who was named Naismith's player of the year, will receive their awards April 7. 
LACROSSE 

Howell named player of the week 
Special to the Observer 
Notre Dame senior goalie Kirk Howell, who has helped the Irish men's lacrosse team to a 5-0 record and No. 2 ranking in the United States Intercollegiate Lacrosse Association (USILA)/STX Poll (its highest ranking in school history), has been named the Great Western Lacrosse League Player of the Week after leading the Irish to two wins last week over Virginia and Loyola. Howell earns the honor for the second time in his career. It also marks the third week an Irish player has been recognized for the award. 
Howell had 14 saves in Notre Dame's 11-8 road win over the then seventh-ranked Cavaliers -its first-ever win in two previous meetings. He then tied his career-high with 18 saves in a 10-7 win at fifth-ranked Loyola. That vic­tory was the second straight for the Irish over the Greyhounds and their first­ever in 10 previous meetings during the regular season. 

Howell has made 59 saves in five games this season and has not allowed more than eight goals in any contest. He owns a 7.00 goals against average and .626 save per­centage. 
The Irish are on the road for the fourth straight game and fifth time six outings when Notre Dame travels to Hempstead, N.Y. to face Hofstra at 2:00 p.m. on Sat., Mar. 24 at 2:00 p.m. 
s reasons ,.________·~ you'd like to g et your !:~.~:;:;yo::.:~:,pend ~,. ~fund.£aasrir,en; ,,::.!".~;::·::.: u.mic, by wilng IRS --JU,, E,-er, (.,.~ • .­'Wlrith Direct Depo.i_.J lftS ..Ju~ ii fut. ,unpl... ...,d SOM.Ire. So aceun.tc. th.,.-e'• leu ,;:ba,qQo, ,,.,.,•o , ittoaor,,,dltcar<l. Ora.al,: ; I ua to whhdn.w It From i yo= bank .a,,,,·ount.• Aalc your ta,,; pttparer to I e-tlle your r",1',l'llffl, or U.M! your own eompu1er. For dctatl,. M!'l!! }'out" taxI . profeulc;,na.l or vh,lt our ! Web site ac www,i""lc:nr j •:-Oht> .  

,.__________..,________ .. ...--------------...-~..;;----------·----,.,_.......,_~-------------------i 
page 30 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March 22, 200 l 
Midnight Madneii 2.001 
Athletes will not be the only winners at Midnight Madness 
winning that will be taking place 
By KA TIE McVOY 
on Friday. 
Associare Sports Editor 
The culmination of the evening will be a random drawing that The madness is catching. will send one very luck Saint Hampant questions of who is Mary's student and a guest to going to win are sweeping Chicago for a weekend with limo across campus. Plans for Friday service to and from Chicago by night are easy ,mough to detcr­Anthony Travel service, two mi ne as team colors take con­nights in the Ritz Carlton. pro­trol. No. it's not March Madness vided by the Office of the that will be rocking the Saint President. dinner at the John Mary's r.ampus on Friday: HOs Hancock Signature Room, pro­Midnight Madness. vided by the Saint Mary's varsity The second annual intramural club, and a $1,000 shopping 
championship and athletic spree donated by the Office of extravaganza will take place on the Vice President of Student Friday in Angela Athletic Center. Affairs. The aLhlelic department is look­Bui the prizes don't end there. ing for spirit from everyone -Other prizes include a Jostens or 
students, faculty, staff and visi­Balfour class ring, a reserved tors. space in the faculty LeMans lot, "This is not only about spirit the ever popular no. 1 room 

I 
for Saint Mary's students," ath­pick, gift certificates and plenty letic director Lynn Kachmarik of Saint Mary's apparel . .o;aid. "It's an event to get people Midnight Madness will also aware of what's going on at feature a 50-50 raffie. Tickets Saint Mary's." for that raffie have been on sale 
The evening will kick off with all week and will be on sale up the winter intramural champi­through Friday night at the time 
onships at 9 p.m. of the drawing. 

The championship will close a But the fun doesn't end there. very successful winter intramur­Anyone coming to Midnight al season. Madness will have plenty of create. The athletic department will Kachmarik said. 
"We've had a tremendous entertainment after the champi­"[Midnight Madness] is an be looking for class unity by "That way, this year's T-shirt turnout this year." assistant ath­onships end at 10:45. Those opportunity for all the classes to encouraging women in all four can be at campus events all the letic director Gretchen attending can take be athletes send off our senior women," classes to wear their class col­years the women are here." Hildebrandt said. "We've more themselves -taking part in Kachmarik said. "Our communi­ors. Freshmen will be wearing than doubled the number of activites such as tug-o-war. ty has to be part of a vision of The first 50 women through purple, sophomores will be teams." musical chairs, dodgeball or an where we want Saint Mary's to the door on Friday from each wearing orange. juniors will 
Forty teams participated in obstacle course. The Saint go. We need to come together." class will be awarded a class T­have on red, and the Saint intramurals. Mary's cheerleaders and Dance And Kachmarik is looking for shirt in the class colors. 100 Mary's seniors will be sporting 
Two teams out of that number Team will also be providing big numbers this year -even more T-shirts for each class will Belles' blue. have fought their way into the entertainment. bigger than last year. be given away at random for the Mindight Madness begins at 9 final game of the season. But the The most important part of the "I would like to see over 1,000 rest of the evening. p.m. and ends at 1 p.m. All those victories that are won on the evening. however. is the class women students at this event." "These colors will follow each planning on attending the event court am only a small part of the and school unity the night will she said. class until they graduate," must be in the door by 11 p.m. 
Championships heat up Angela 
ing to repeat history, the Chaos The Badazzes of LcMans (8-0­
By KATIE McVOY 
(7-1-1) is looking to erase it. The 0) are looking to shut down those 
Associate Sports Editor 
other LeMans hall team, cap­tall players. tained by Michelle Johnson. "We definitely need to focus on 
The weatherman may have 
wants to revenge last year's loss. Erica Burket and Adrian Kirby,"
predicted another cold front for 
"We are really excited to play Megan Jardina said. 'They really
Friday, but the heat will be on in 
[the Ghetto Fabulous]." Johnson hurt us offensively so we need to
Angela Athletic facility as winter 
said. "We want our revenge. We change our defense." 
intramurals wrap up and the 
want to win this year." 

intramural sports championship 
The Chaos. which came into 
Volleyball

is presented. 
playoffs ranked second. kicked Friday's volleyball game pits
Following the three champi­
their way past the Soccer 
the no. 1 ranked Prom Queens of 

onship games, the athletic 
Monkeys and the Little Devils to
10:45 pm -12:45 am 
Regina Hall against a surprise

department will award the dorm 
reach the finals. Fresh blood on victor, the no. 5 ranked Senior
with the most points the intra­
•Entertainment & Games/Events 

this year's team may be the key. 
Spikers of LeMans. 

mural sports championship. 
Basketball The Prom Queens (9-0-0) are
Tug-O-War 

Soccer 
The basketball championship the only team coming to the
There is history behind this 
also pits no. 1 against no. 2. The intramurals from a hall other
Musical Chairs 

year's intramural soccer cham­
la,;t time the Team o' Teachers than LeMans. The Thumbs and
pionship. The presidential Ghetto 
Obstacle Course 

(ranked no. 1) faced off against the Boozehounds fell prey lo the
fabulous faced off against the 
the Badazzes (ranked no. 2), the crowned victors. 
Chaos last year as well.
SMC Cheerleaders 

Badazzes learned their lesson. The Prom Queens offense may
The Ghetto Fabulous (7-1-0), 
losing to the educators. cause a problem for tho Spikcrs. 
Dodgebal I Matches 

which boasts Saint Mary's stu­
The Team o' Teachers (11-0-"From what I've seen the Prom 
dent body president and vice­
0), named as such because its Queens arc very strong offen­
Lip Sync Performances 

president Crissie Renner and 
composed of mostly senior scc­sively," Jardina said.
Michelle Nagle, claimed the 
on dary education majors, is Jardina returns to the court
And Many More! 


championship last year, defeat­
counting on its height in a Friday with the Senior Spikers (9-2-0), 
ing the Chaos 2-0. The LeMans 
night victory. looking for a victory. All four
Hall team, ranked no. 1 coming 
"We have a couple of tall girls women on the team played var­
into playoffs. is out to repeat his­
who help us out a lot." team cap­sity volleyball together their
12:45 am 

tory, but come away smiling 
tain Mary Sweene said. "I think freshman year. 
regardless of the outcome. 
that we'll have to get rebounds "We want to focus on being
• 50/50 Raffle Drawing 

"We want to play hard but still 
to stay on top of the game." strong on offense and not being
have fun," Renner said. "We're
• GRAND PRIZE DRAWING 

The no. 1 ranked Teachers tentative when we hit." Jardina
going to be playing our friends so 
defeated the Anunciata Animals said.
it will be extra fun!" 
and the 3-T Tigers to claim their Intramural championships will
If the Ghetto Fabulous is look-
spot in the finals. kick off Friday at 9 p.m. 


-! 
I ' 
I Thursday, March 22, 200 l The Observer . TODAY page 31 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
Fox TROT 
CRUSH YOU. 

YOU REALIZE I'M 
WIPE THE FLooR 
HA~ 

G,01NG To OE.STROY 
WITH YOU. 
l WIN 

You, EILEEN. 
AGAIN!
I 

TOM KEELEY 
BILL AMEND 
IF 'YOU BREATHE  BEST  
wo~o or-IE oF  oF  
THIS AT SCHOOL.  203?  

TYLER

THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 
i: 11\n\ Yr\ l)t.,f"P.~\~ 1,1e.eK!> of ~t,hoo I 
le..f"t. 
) 

f iq11t we.ti<!.? No, i'he.felS cnll/ "lh~e. w~\r..-fi. 6'1\Je\'f Q.lt\a .f,"'11~ wc&k. cAtlWI 1+ rec.111f CD<M1 1a....d V\t.11\,er do h1c.ti.io .fu,r~we11~. Th,~ wc.c.i... ,-:, 1oe.1,1e41\'I -~ CNe.r :io ~ )t~o.t 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON sequences. Financial problems 
ACROSS 33 "Olympia" 63 Bum the 
THIS DAY: Karl Malden, Marcel will lead to a poor credit rating 
painter surface of 1 Eve's man 

Marceau, William Shatner, Lena· and a loss of respect. 000
34 Airport posting: 64 Take it easy

5 Devise, as a 
Olin, Bob Costas, Matthew VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22):
Abbr. 65 Finales

plot Modine, Andrew Llovd Webber, Handle your personal partner 10 Went down a 
36 HO Reese Witherspoon · with kid gloves. Don't neglect his firehouse pole, 40 Summer on the DOWN Happy Birthday: Don't let or her needs. You may receive an 
e.g. Riviera 1 Pinnacle things bother you this year, or . invitation meant just for you. you won't reach your goals. Put Think twice before you accept. 00
14 Coke, for one 41 Jawbreakers, 2 Entryway 
your feelings aside and focus on LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Put a 
e.g. 3 Actor Alan 

15 Met offering what you can do to make your little pizzazz into your work. Your 16 Stereo knob 42 Swarm 4 li'I Abner's life better. The changes may not extra efforts will be appreciated. 43 Claims without Daisy_ always be what you want, but if it You need to spend some time get­
17 HO 
5 "Hooray!" will he[p your situation, yoi.1 mi.1st ·· ting bacbnto:sh:apedSho,pp~g, "lJ IIJillJ
proof

20_ofGood move ahead. The rewards will be will be tempting, but you'll have ·
6 It has strings 45 Adjusts, as a suit

Feeling satisfying and probably lead you to stick to a set budget. 000
attached 

21 Hoo-has 47 Half of an old in a far more positive direction. SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):
7 Tetley offerings 

radio duo Your numbers: 9, 14, 18, 22, 37, 45 Pleasure trips and involvement
22 out 8 Dernier
48 Nabisco cookie ARIES (March 21-April 19): with organizations will promote
(declined) 
9 Chinese dynasty Opportunitiestoshowyourworth romance. Your ability to find
49W.W.II

23 Leo, 10 Alternative to a will lead to sudden advancement solutions to benefit all involved
conference site

astrologically Your intuition will lead you in the will aid you in getting the
paper clip 

24 Thwart 52 Contrived right direction. Don't be afraid to approval you require. 00000
11 Boor

53 Old hand start something new. You'll be sur-SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-D«. 21):
26 Storefront cover 12 "Picnic" 
prisingly good at it. 000 Someone you live with is curtail­
56 HO

29 Huge headlines playwright TAURUS (April 20-May 20): ing your freedom. Don't let him 32 Word in French 60 Toledo's lake 13 Monopoly card Your health Will suffer if you are or-her talk )'OU into doing things restaurant 18 Reposed
61 Place to wash up eat and drink excessively. Don't you don't have time for. Lay overreact to changes at work. down some ground rules before 
names 62 Mentally fit 19 Choose, as a 
Your reluctance to accept them the situation escalates. 00
career 

will be viewed harshly. 000 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 23 Minnem of stage GEMINI (May 21-June 20): A sudden infatuation will bloom and screen Don't stretch the truth. You may into a passionate love affair. Get S A M T H E S H .;,;.+,....,;....;;;.,i 24 II may be tickled Puui. by Adam G. Perl get blamed for something you together with friends or relatives, didn't do. Social events will lead and you will find out valuable
A L O H A S T A 25 Lollapalooza 37 Delivery person 50 Suffix with 53 Blueprint 
to romantic connections but if information about someone from
26 Marathoner's of old concession 
54 Rip apart you're already involved don't your past. 0000AR woe 38 Shakespearean 51 Princess who even consider the offer. 000 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):
55 Raw metals 
villain CANCER (June 21-July 22): Financial gains can be made
battles the 5 E Believes" (1979 
57 Disney division Don't become involved in the through money that you haven't 
39 Sgt. Snorkel's Death Star E S hit) 
personal affairs of others. You'll worked for. Wmnings, insurance,
dog 58_Zedong
H A 28 Banister post 52 Hopi Indian be blamed for taking sides or dividends or investments may interfering. You'll be interested pay off. Be careful: easy come,
A i-,.+.,..f.,.~ O W 29 The Beatles, 44 Former's locale 59 Take habitually 
T Stones, etc. opposite in foreign cultures. Attend cul-easy go. 000 tural events and experience the PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20):
A 30 Zellweger of 45 Passionate 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle differences. 0000 Romantic encounters will devel-
R E A "Jerry Maguire" 
46 Look that may .,, LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You're op through group activity. Don't 
are available by touch-tone phone:
B o o 1 31 Beef on the hoof offend too ~enerous with your friends. overreact to someone's advances. 
1·900·420-5656 (95¢ per minute).
E N B-=-+.;.;+.;;+=+.;.+;.i.;;,;.i 33 Flowing tresses Don t overextend yourself unless Use your genuine warmth and
48 Place for a

I ~.,,,+;;;+.,..+-;+..+.;..~,.;..+.;;..i 35 Second Annual subscriptions are available for the you're prepared to suffer the con• compassion to win hearts. 0000
date?

L I E S T E N O R S A X E S Amendment best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
L I S T E M I S S A R I E S subject 49 Part of Y.S.L. years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 'Birthday Baby: You are steady, ready an~ eage~ to put yo~!£ to the test. You have an impeccable way of doing iliings and will not shy away from hard work or whatever it takes to reach your life goals. 
(Need advice? Check out Eusenia's Web sites at aatroadvice.com, eugenialaat.coin, aatromate.com.) Cl 2001 Univmal Press SyndiCAte
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q • Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name --------------------------­
Address------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip.______ 

Irish Pitchers Dominate 

The Notre Dame baseball team claimed a shutout victory over Cleveland State Wednesday. 
page 20 

... 
PORTS 
O
THE page 32 BSERVER Thursday, March 22, 200 I 

BASEBALL 

Tamayo overcomes diversity to throw for victory 
By JEFF BALTRUZAK 
Assisran r Sports Editor 

.. 
This yPar, Irish starting pitcher Danny Tamayo is a dominant right­handrr with a 2-l record. baffling 
opposing battrrs with a halting change­up and a fastball with pinpoint control. 
But his sophomore year, Tamayo couldn't even throw a baseball, let alon11 pitch a Division 1 collflge base­ball ganrn. 
In March 11)99. doctors rnmoved a tendon l'rom Tamayo's left forearm and wrapped it around hb right elbow, a proceduf!! known as the Tommy Johnil•~r~·-~~Jl~1A· i~+?f ~ho f?rmnr
Vli!Wi a'p1Gi~f'fMct1Af~llt Used th( oper­ation. ll would be a year until Tamayo 
would pitch again. 
"I was relieved to· have something I could do about [my elbow!." said Tamayo. "I wanted an answer to my pain." 
Although with the Tommy John surgery there was a chance Tamayo would never pitch again. he was confi­dent that the procedure would allow him to continue his career. The surgery has a 95 percent success rate, and is becoming increasingly common in baseball. 
Still. the rehabilitation would be a feat requiring great mental strength and dedication. 
Tamayo's rehab consisted of daily sessions with baseball trainer Mike Bean, a man he credits greatly for his recovery. He concentrated on resis­tance work. and exercised his forearms by squeezing socks, and then a clay ball, between sessions. 
"I was just building back my muscles, and eventually the throwing came around," said Tamayo. 

Tamayo also impressed his head coach. Paul Mainieri. ''[His rehabilita­tion] shows a lot about his desire," Mainieri said. "He's a very loyal per­son, and his loyalty to our school and our baseball program is extremely high." 
A year after his surgery. Tamayo returned to the mound on March 7. 2000, pitching the final inning in a win over Manchester. Ilis teammates promptly mobbed him after he secured the final nut of the game. 
But for Tamayo, the true turning point on the road back to pitr.hing came against Hutgers last year. Tamayo started against the Scarlet Knights. and was able to work five innings while readjusting to being back on the mound. 
"In that game it started to .click," said Tamayo. "It's funny, I felt like I had to almost remember how to pitch -but in that game I said to myself 'I can do this."' 
Tamayo was only 14 months out of the operating room when he took the mound against Mississippi State in the NCAA Starkville Regional on May 28, 2000, on the Bulldogs home field at Dudy-Noble Field. 
Simply put. he pitched a masterpiece. 
Tamayo was dominating in a com­plete game, three-hit shutout, throwing just 105 pitches. The Irish won 7-0, setting up the final showdown with Mississippi State that Notre Dame eventually lost by a heartbreaking 10-9 margin. 
If Rutgers was the turning point for 
see TAMAYO/page 25 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 

The question remains: Will Murphy leave the Irish? 
The question came within why Murphy should stay, chanti­with the question of whether he could make a strong case either no tournament to go to in 1999 minutes of Notre Dame's sea­ng "One more year" at Notre would stay in college the only way. to NIT runners-up in 2000 to Big son-ending loss to Ole Miss in Dame's final home game against audible words. Yet the two-time On the go side? East division champions and one the NCAA Tournament. Would George-town. Opponents gave All-American never wavered in Millions of dollars. Privacy, a shot from the Sweet 16 in 2001. Troy Murphy stick around for Murphy motivation to leave, his answer to the incessant luxury Murphy doesn't enjoy Team success, including getting his senior season? with players grilling. always responding that beneath the Notre Dame bubble. Notre Dame back into the NCAA 
The question was repeated double­he would sit down and weigh his Freedom from the sky-high Tourney for the first time since within minutes after every game teaming options once the season ended. expectations of Irish fans. The 1990, was a big part of of Notre Dame's season. him, crowds "It's something I'll look at chance to fulfill his dream of Murphy's decision to stay a sea­
"Are you planning to play for harassing after the season," Murphy said playing in the NBA. The been­son ago. the Irish for four full years. him and March 6 in New York. the day there. done-that factor -that "We had a nice run in the NIT Troy?" opposing he accepted a second straight Murphy has little left to accom­last year," Murphy said, "but I · 
The question was asked at coaches award as Big East Player of the plish on an individual level in didn't think I would be able to every press confernnce, begin­begging for Year. college. consider my college career a ning within minutes of Murphy's him to go Now that the season's over. "For him, it's more than a bas­success unless we made a run in April 2000 announcement to pro. the question keeps coming, but a ketball decision," Irish coach the NCAAs." stay at Notre Dame for his junior Murphy little more urgency awaits the Mike Brey said Sunday. "If it Now that he's taken the Irish year. must have answer, as Murphy has until was just a basketball decision, to March Madness. will he be as 
"Have you thought about next felt like his May 13 to declare for the NBA he would have told you today motivated to stick around the year, Troy·, Are you going to CD player Draft. he's gone." college scene'! Especially when enter the NBA draft?" was stuck Stay or go? A good lawyer, or In his three years, Murphy led 
Fans chipped in their reasons on repeat. even an ambulance-chaser, Notre Dame from a team with see MURPHY/page23 


Fencing Men's Lacrosse 
SPORTS • NCAA Tournament at. Hofstra 
Softball

Today -Sunday Saturday, l p.m. 
vs. Western Michigan 

•
ATA 
Tuesday, 4 p.m. 

at Kentucky vs. Utah
rtf)

"C, Saturday, noon Saturday, TBA 
GLANCE • • 









