
What's hot and what's not?
PARTLY 
Thursday
CLOUDY 
Check out Scene's summer blockbuster movie reviews. 

AUGUST 30,
Scene . pages 14-15

HIGH 860 
2001 
LOW660 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

VOL XXXV NO. 3 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

SMC responds to DOE complaint 
. College makes (SOC). wrong years: one assault was administration. uwe had one the brochure referred people The complaint filed against filed under 1997 instead of sexual assault under the 1998 to the student handbook.
changes to comply 
Saint Mary's on May 13, 2001 1996 and another was filed column when it should have "In the old brochure we 
with Clery Act alleged inadequate compliance under 1998 instead of 1999. been reported in the 1999 col­didn't have a statement on our with the Jeanne Clery act, Although the complaint is umn. policy on crime alerts. We have according to the text of the extensive, the two major points The other major complaint to spell it out in the security complaint. of the complaint raised rested was in regard to Saint Mary's brochure," Dennis said. 
By MYRA MCGRIFF In 1991, an amendment to in two areas, the way Saint Safety and Security informa­To rectify the errors stated in 
Saint Mary's Editor 
the Jeanne Clery act stated all Mary's reported sexual assault tional brochure. Due to anoth­the May 13 complaint, Saint colleges had to report assaults statistics and non-compliance er amendment in the Jean Mary's responded July 16 with under a calendar year, with sexual assault disclosure Clery act in 1992, all colleges a three-page letter and pagesSaint Mary's reporting proce­
January to January, instead of in their Safety Security infor­had to include in their security of documents to back up their
dure on sexual assaults is 
a fiscal year, June to May. mational brochure. brochures the institution's intentions. Included in the sup­
under review by the 
Saint Mary's did not change "We were not reporting the judicial, reporting. and timely porting document was the
Department of Education 
(DOE) due to a complaint their reporting procedure. way we should have been warning procedures. Saint changed statistics for each Consequently, two sexual reporting," Keith Dennis, vice Mary's did not.
issued by the watchdog organi­
zation Security on Campus assaults were filed under the president of finances and Instead of listing their policy see COMPLAINT/page 4 

By ERIN LaRUFFA 
Associate News Editor 
Although Brian Coughlin liked his job as rector of Carroll Hall, he decided he was ready for a change. So when Student Activities director Joe Cassidy left the University in 2000, Coughlin applied for position. 
"When [Cassidy] left, I thought about it long and hard because I really enjoyed being a rector. But I felt it was time to move on," Coughlin said. 
Following a nation-wide search for Cassidy's replacement, the University selected Coughlin in May. On July 1, Coughlin took over the director's job from Mary Edgington, who had served as act­ing director for the past year. Edgington returned to her position as an assistant director within the Student Activities office. 
As Student Activities director, Coughlin will coordinate the activi­ties of Notre Dame's student orga­nizations, residence halls, radio stations and University-supported publications. His job also includes overseeing the operation of LaFortune Student Center, Alumni­Senior Club and Stepan Center. 
According to some Carroll resi­dents, their former rector was an excellent selection for the head of Student Activities. 
"He was always really enthusias­tic about Notre Dame spirit, so I think hello do a good job," said junior Tom Alessi. 
For sophomore Dan Murphy. Coughlin made a favorable impres­sion by joining in a game of volley­ball with CarrollOs residence assis­tants during Freshmen Orientation last year. 
"I think he's a really great guy,O Murphy said. "He cared about everyone in the dorm. He always took everyoneOs view into consid­eration when he had to decide something." 
During his three years as rector, Coughlin also had a chance to work with the Student Activities office. In fact, Joe Cassidy asked Coughlin to be an advisor to the office of the student body presi­
see COUGHLIN/page 4 


Officials begin U2 ticket sales 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News Editor 
A performance at the Joyce Center this fall by U2 is still not a certain­ty, but University offi­cials have stepped up preparations for an appearance by the star Irish band. 
In a move that seem­ingly assures a visit by the rock act, Notre Dame ticketing officials have offered Joyce Center loge seat holders first chance to purchase tickets for the event. 
An Aug. 24 mailing from the Notre Dame Ticket Office includes a letter that tells loge, or box-seat, holders that U2 will be in concert Oct. 10 at 7:30 p.m. in the Joyce Center Arena. The mailing states that tickets go on sale Sept. 15 and includes an order form to be returned to the Ticket Office by Sept. 7. 
This week a University events man­ager in charge of con­cert booking for the Joyce Center confirmed that Notre Dame offi­cials have been in dis­cussions with promoters from Clear Channel Entertainment, the com­pany representing U2's international Elevation tour. 
The recent letter to box-seat holders is stan­
dard  procedure  and  
doesn't  ensure  an  
appearance  by  the  

band, according to 
Dennis Moore, Notre 
Dame's director of pub­
lic relations and infor­
mation. 
"I would assume that 
this is a date that must 
have been proposed to 
the promoters," Moore 
said Wednesday. "It's 
typical that [box-seat 
holders] get first pass on 
major events there [at 
the Joyce Center]." 
Moore said Wednesday. 
He said a formal 
announcement about 
the tour would come 
from Clear Channel 
spokespeople after 
Labor Day. 
"You would think, 
given the date they're 
talking about, the 
announcement would 
be sooner rather than 
later," Moore said. 
For almost a month, local media and a fan­run Web site have fueled rumors that the Joyce Center would be a tour stop for the popu­lar band. 
If U2 decides to per­form on campus, it would put tour repre­sentatives and University administra­tors on a tight schedule for promoting and sell­ing tickets for the event. 
If the band opts out of a performance here, box-seat holders who have already secured tickets would receive full refunds, Moore said. 
Contact Jason McFarlcy at mcfarlcy.l@nd.edu. 

Thursday, August 30, 2001
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Don't sweat it 
It's that time of year again. Everyone is sharpening their No. 2 pencils, buying over­priced folders from the bookstore and becom­ing increasingly overwhelmed by that looming feeling of dread that always accompanies the first week of classes. 
It's not that school in gen­eral is an adverse or evil thing. It's just that when handed five or six different syllabi, realizing that you have to get up at 6 a.m. to sign up for a Cardio Box class, going to buy a course packet as big as your left 

arm, and then, on top of it Jacquelineall, discovering that you 
Browder
have to read a 200-page book in three days, college can be as exhausting as it is Scene Copy overwhelming. Editor 
The moment your parents tearfully drop you off for Freshman Orientation, it all begins. Within minutes, you are bombarded by the Four Big Questions: name, dorm, hometown, and major. Major? You just arrived, starry-eyed to begin your collegiate adventures and suddenly. you're supposed to have mapped out the next four years of your life and beyond. 
Yes, it's a wonderful thing to have direction in your life and most people arrive with at least a vague idea of what they would like to study. However, having to pin-point the meaning and organization ofyour life's adventures when you haven't even unpacked your CDs can be a trou­blesome thought. 
Then classes begin, and there doesn't seem to be enough time in a day to do all of the work that lies ahead of you. Looking at your syllabi, you see that you have papers, projects, tests, and portfolios -all of which are guaranteed to be due the same week. There are books to be bought and read in a week's time, course pack­ets to highlight before next week's discussion group -and didn't you want to build a loft? · It's enough to make your head spin. 
Then, the extra curricular activities kick in. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's offer an astound­ing number of ways to spend your "free time," urging you to join a broom ball league, help your community, strengthen your faith and build your resume. With so many options, pick­ing one -or 12 -isn't easy. After activity night, you may wonder how you ended up on the email list for the Notre Dame Rodeo Club, or realize that roller hockey just isn't for you. 
Before the first-week-stress syndrome causes you to break down in tears and come to the decision that life would be better as a bar­tender in the Caribbean, relax. Take another look at your syllabi and discover that you have weeks to prepare for your chemistry midterm. Read on the quad or play Frisbee with your friends. Take a walk around the lakes, and realize that you -yes, you -are a bright and clever individual. You have direction in your life, even if it's only that you want to do well in whatever you eventually decide to study. 
College can put an unbelievable amount of stress on a person, but it only makes you stronger. And, when your to-do list is checked off, your tests are taken and your papers are turned in, you can give yourself a high five, knowing that as overwhelmed as you felt at the beginning of the year, you did it. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Jacqueline Browder at browder.l@nd.edu 


CORRECTIONS /CLARIFICATIONS 
In the Aug. 29 edition ofThe Observer, Chicago White Sox pitcher Rocky Biddle was incorrecdy identified as the Detroit Tigers' Matt Perisho. Also in the Aug. 29 edition, Ken Caminiti was incorrectly identified as a player for the Houston Astros. Caminiti plays for the Atlanta Braves. The Observer regrets the errors. 
The Observer aims for accuracy at all times. If you have noticed a mistake, please call us at 631-4541. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and v:ication periods. The Observer is a member of lhc A.ssoci.ated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

PENN STATE UNIVERSITY 
Campus reacts to student's suicide 
UNIVERSITY PARK, Pa. 
As word of Timothy Kulp's suicide slowly filtered through the second floor of Hamilton Hall at Pennsylvania State University, where the 18-year-old had lived for about a week, students reacted with sad­ness and shock. 
But with only a few weeks of Penn State experience to his name, not many of his fellow residents knew him well, if at all. 
"He was never home," said Bryan Brightbill, who lived a few rooms down the hall from Kulp. "But I can't believe that it's so close to the start of college and it's already over for him. He didn't experience anything yet and that is tragic." 
Anthony Jefferson and Arun Kapil also said not many residents ever saw Kulp. 
Although they were shocked that he was arrested for indeceni assault Saturday, neither student believed that the charges were so severe that he would take his life. 

LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
THIS WEEK AT NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Thursday  Friday  Saturday  Monday  
. Car wash: Coaches• car  . Movie: "Finding  . Comedy show: Bobby  . Holiday: Labor Day, all  
wash, 11 a.m. to 1 p.m.,  Forrester," 7:30 p.m.,  Collins, 9 p.m., Washington  administrative offices  
Gold Field parking lot, west  Carroll Auditorium  Hall  closed, classes in session  
of Eck Baseball Stadium  . Party: Graduate Student  . Breakfast: Midnight  . Documentaries: "The  
. Picnic: Graduate Student  Union welcome-back party,  pancake breakfast, 12 to  Inheritance," 4 p.m.,  
Union picnic, 5:30 to 7 p.m.,  9 p.m. to 2 a.m., Alumni  1:30 a.m., North Dining  Hesburgh Center  
Fischer-O'Hara Grace  Senior Club  Hall  Auditorium  
parking area  

Compiled from U-Wire reports 

BEYOND CAMPUS 
Report raises questions about Duke shoe deal 
DURHAM, N.C. Alleva said that in other sports, the 
"It's bad ifcorporations are 
When top basketball recruit Amare University has individual contracts
running the ranch here. 
Stoudemire's mother accepted with equipment providers. money from Nike consultant George But they're not. ,, "Soccer has adidas," Alleva said. Raveling, she might have jeopar­"Tennis has deals ... Golf has Titleist dized her son's NCAA eligibility. and companies like that." 
Mike Krzyzewskl
But she also sparked questions There are obvious benefits for 
men's basketball head coach
about the role of big-time shoe com­Duke. panies in college athletics. Krzyzewski's deal supplements his 
Those same questions surfaced in tract with Nike since 1993 after income from the University, and the July when the Knight Foundation's switching from adidas. team receives free equipment and Commission on Intercollegiate Nike provides the team with shoes, exposure. Athletics released a report that uniforms and practice gear. Eric Oberman, a spokesperson for argued that the commercialization "Yes, we wear the Nike swoosh on Nike, said the shoe company has hurt higher education. Now, admin­our uniforms," Krzyzewski said ear­more than 200 contracts with vari­istrators, students and fans at Duke lier this year. "And a lot's for sale ous schools and coaches. University are wondering if the Nike here, but with stipulations. It's bad if Although he could not reveal the swoosh is mightier than the Duke corporations are running the ranch contents of a specific contract, he shield. here. But they're not." said Nike offers footwear at a mini­
Men's basketball coach Mike "A university is also a business, but mum and often uniforms and other Krzyzewski has had a private con-it should not sell values," he said. apparel. 

UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS AT EL PASO 
Study declares school's soil safe 
AUSTIN, Texas 
A study released by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services declared elevated levels of arsenic and lead in the University of Texas at El Paso's soil are not a health threat to faculty, students and staff. 
The HHS Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry and the Texas Department of Health released the findings Monday after surveying the area in July on behalf of the Environmental Protection Agency. Though the lead and arsenic contents were above the EPA's acceptable levels, UTEP officials said they pose little or no risk to the university community. 
A UTEP geology student analysis of the soil earlier this year found significant levels of the two substances, prompting the government to analyze the soil on cam­pus. 
"I could say that the entire campus was found to be safe," said Robert Moss. UTEP Director of Environmental Health and Safety. "The metals weren't found to impose any risk." 
S Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather•forecast for daytime conditions and hi h tern ratures 
The AccuWeathef"J forecast for noon.Thursday, Aug. 30. 
( 
\ I ' 
\ 
\ I / 
,, 
' 
1

ffi'cl'
. ,.:_::•, ~,:,• :~. -·::,.;.. 
.Satur
tt::,:~.:;.~:i.thk,::.' ··_. 
,,:·:¢-· 
· .. ~··..­
_,
.,. . 
. . Cl 2001 Acc:uWeathet Inc, COI.O WARM STATIONARY 
®© ......
High Low Show•r• Rain T-MOrma ""'"-9 9-w loe Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy via Assoaaled' Press 
Atlanta 83 70 Las Vegas 100 75 Portland 82 54 
Baltimore 83 69 Memphis 92 69 Sacramento 95 61 
Boston 73 65 Milwaukee 74 65 St Louis 90 75

q,~,~qqQ i) ~ c!:) 
Chicago 82 65 New York 83 65 Tampa 93 74
.. ·:· ·:~ 
Snowers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Houston 85 76 Philadelphia 81 67 Washington DC 81 70 
\llaAUoci-Pl'ffll ~I 
Thursday, August 30, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Local area code set to change 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER Assistant News Editor 
Because the current 219 area code serving all of northern Indiana is nearing capacity, callers will have to dial a new area code 57 4 to reach Notre Dame. Saint Mary's and South Bend residents as early as June 2002. 
According to Notre Dame's telecommunications manager Steve Ellis, during the next four months, until Dec.14, callers will notice no changes while tele­phone companies prepare their equipment for the new area code. 
Starting Dec. 14, a period called permissive dialing will begin. when callers may dial either the old 219 area code or the new 574 area code. Then beginning June 14, 2002. callers must dial the new 574 area code. 
The December and June dead­lines were set by the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission. but may be moved back as a result of appeals from telephone companies. 
Before the new area code takes affect, the University has to pre­pare for the change. 
"All literature has to be changed [with the new area code]. It's very painful. Voice mail will have to he changed, but we are hoping to get some out­side assistance with that," said Ellis. 
Saint Mary's is also preparing for the change over. 
"I've already planned to send notices to let people know that they can use the new area code in December, and I plan to follow prise to people over the summer up closer to June, when everyone [that the area code would must use the 574 area code," said change]. We will be sending out Saint Mary's Telecommunications guidelines for the new area code Coordinator Sandy Handley. very soon," said Farmer. 
To minimize the cost of printing The telecommunications new business cards, brochures departments at both schools will and other media with the new continue to publicize information area code, Notre Dame procure­about the area code change as ment services alerted the the change over date approaches University community of the area and Ellis said he suggests callers code change. begin using the 574 area code as 
Ellis said he soon as the suggests that permissive departments "All literature has to be dialing period use their cur­changed [with the new area begins. 
rent supply of "Everybody
code]. It's very painful . .,
media and will approach change the using the new area code Steve Ellis area code a when they re­telecommunications manager different way, 
order during the six-month permissive period. 
"We are pleased we got the information so early and we sent an alert out well enough in advance that we have almost a year [to change the area code on current media]. We see no addi­tional cost to the University since we have given early notice to the departments and we have asked the printing suppliers to work with each department in ordering appropriate quantities through the transition," said assistant vice president for procurement ser­vices Tim Gibney. 
According to Saint Mary's director of marketing communi­cations Nick Farmer, the College has not yet sent out instructions for ordering media with the new area code, but will do so soon. 
"It came as somewhat of a sur­but the quicker 
I forget 219, 
the better I'm 
going to be," Ellis said. 
Officials from the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission split the region into three parts, each with its own area code: the eastern region including Fort Wane, the central region including South Bend and the western region including Gary. 
During the summer. a lottery was held to determine which region would keep the 219 area code and which would adopt two new area codes: 260 and 574. The Gary area was randomly selected to keep 219, South Bend was assigned 574 and Fort Wayne was assigned 260. 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at Brodfuehrer .1@nd.edu 
Governor appoints SMC prof to board 
By MARY CAMPE 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's College social work professor Jo Ann Burke has been appointed by Governor Frank O'Bannon to a two~year term on the board of Community and Home Options to Institutional Care for the Elderly and Aging (CHOICE). 
The CHOICE board advises the governor in policies related to care for the elderly and disabled and works with the Indiana 
Bureau of Aging and In­home Services. 
Dr. Burke hopes to bring ideas and solutions to move towards providing communi­ty-based services enabling people with disabilities to remain in their homes instead of solely relying on 

institutions, or nursing Burke 
homes. 
"This is a very exciting time to be on this board," says Burke. "People are living longer and we need to come up with ways for the next wave of nursing homes to be at-home care." 
Burke also works with Real Services Inc., a com­munity-based elderly care agency that covers Northwest Indiana. One member of the agency saw the motivation and time Burke devotes to the cause of elderly care and nominated her. 
Rebecca Zaseck, the nominating colleague, believes strongly in Burke's depth and breadth of experience and believes those qualities will make her an effective board member for the CHOICE pro­gram. 
"JoAnn is an educator but she's also a practition­J er," Zaseck, said. 'I !
Burke's background includes 12 years in geriatric i and community health nursing and 10 years in fami­ly therapy practice, including five years as an American Association for Marriage and Family Therapy-approved supervisor. 
Burke earned her master's and doctorate in social work from Bryn Mawr College. She has an under­graduate nursing degree from the University of Cincinnati. Burke has been teaching at Saint Mary's for the past four years. 
Contact Mary Campe at camp9575@saintmarys.edu . 


Tonight and Every Thursday Night 
Come wet and test your whistle at ... 
KARAOKE, 9 -midnight 
$10 Lifetime Membership Special All Week!!! 
Check out www.nd.edu/-asc for more info on SPECIALS 
You must be 21 years old with valid ID to enter. 
Thursday, August 30, 2001 
page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Complaint 
continued from page 1 
wrongly reported sexual assault and a draft of the new Safety and Security brochure. Now they brochure spells out the 
further explain their reporting methods. 
The letter included a list of 11 questions, over half of which pertained directly to how Saint Mary's list specific cases. Other questions dealt with the rela­tionship Saint Mary's shares with Notre Dame in reference to reporting crime statistics. 
On Wednesday, the College sent DOE a written response further explaining sexual assault reporting procedures. According to Dennis, the report explains that Notre Dame and Saint Mary's each report the incidents of crime that occur within their individual campus boundaries. 
Whether or not DOE accepts 
Molti Bene 
Catalino's Trattoria Downtown South Bend 
Saint Mary's most current response remains to be seen. SOC Spokesperson S. Daniel Carter thinks the problem rest in the attitude of the administra­tion. 
Carter said that the campus' know ledge of the Clery act amendments since 1991 and 
procedures of the campus alerts, as well as statistical information on assault and other crimes over the last three years. 
However, even with the improve­ments, DOE sent Saint Mary's fol­low-up questions on Aug. 14 to clarify the col­leges July 6 response. The interim corre­spondence asks Saint Mary's to 
"ft is clear that their way ofaccounting is inadequate and not clear. So how much ofa priority are these cases to the school ifit takes the threat offederal action to make the changes?" 
S. Daniel Carter 
SOC spokesperson 
1992 and not properly cor­recting their procedure accordingly speaks to the school's main con­cern. 
"It is clear that their way of accounting is inadequate and not clear. So how much of a priority are these cases to the school 
if it takes the threat of federal action to make the changes?" 
Contact Myra McGriff at mcgrO 181@saintmarys.edu. 
Shop the shops at the East Bank Emporium Bldg. Area's largest selection of 
VERA BRADLEY 
backpacks, luggage & other accessories see the new colors at 
WEAR.ABOUTS 
,,_A,,;bion with II Jt11ir ,;few 11rriv11/s 411il!fl 
Fall Hours: Mon -Fri. IO to 6, Sat l 0-5 -(219) 232-8488 
Next to '<.Ulp! ~11le ~le, downtow11, South Bend 121 S. Niles at Jefferson at the river. 5 hlocks east ofNotre Dame Ave. 
Attention Student~ 
~eniors interested in the Rhodes, Marshall, or MitcDell ~cholarship should attend ameeting to learn the process for applying throu~ the campus committee. 
Tues~y, SeptemDer ~ih O:~~ pm 
room 101 Law School 
Ifyou are unable to attend this mee!in~, information may re obtained in tile Fellowshl~ Office in room ~ O'SOOughnesij 
Coughlin 
continued from page 4 
dent. 
Now that he has Cassidy's former job, Coughlin said there are some changes he would like to make. although he added that the Student Activities office is already an excellent resource for students. 
"I think this office is in really good shape and the people who work here are great," Coughlin said. 
However, he said he would like the office to become more "user friendly." He explained that when students plan events or fundraisers, they currently have to go through several steps of paperwork to get approval. Although Coughlin said reducing the amount of paperwork might not be pos­sible, he hopes the Student Activities office can begin offering students more assistance in working through the event approval process. 
Another important area Coughlin would like to improve is weekend programming. Student Activities has created new positions for students interested in helping to plan weekend activities. In addition, the office will offer more weekend activities, including having a comedian perform once a month. 
Coughlin would also like Student Activities to work more with other University offices that plan events for students, including the Center for Social Concerns, RecSports and the Multicultural Student Programs and Services office. Because he was a rector for three years, Coughlin said he knows people in a number of departments. 
In fact, Coughlin believes his three years as Carroll's rector are perfect preparation for Student Activities director. 
"I don't think anyone knows this University better than the rectors." Coughlin said. 
In addition, Coughlin brings to the posi­tion of Student Activities director a number of different academic and work experi­ences. 
After graduating from Notre Dame in 1995, Coughlin went to Bethany College in West Virginia, where he was in charge of freshman residents halls before becoming coordinator of residence life and student leadership development in 1996. While working at Bethany. Coughlin also earned a masters degree in educational leadership from West Virginia University in 1997. He left West Virginia in 1997 to become a resi­dence hall director at Boston College before returning to his alma mater in 1998. 
Coughlin is also the advisor to the Men's and women's water polo clubs. 
Contact Erin LaRuffa at laruffa.1@nd.edu. 

"Let the rhythm take you over" 
DANCE CLUB 
THIRSTY THURSDAY IS STUDENT ID NIGHT LADIES GET IN FREE, GUYS COVER ONLY $1.00 
MUST BE 21 TO ENTER 
HOURS Thurs & Fri 5pm -2:30am Saturday 8pm-2:30am 
VISIT OUR WEBSITE 
www.clubbailamos.con1 
Phone: 25-SWING (257-9464) Located in the 100 Center Complex 100 Center Street • Mishawaka • Indiana 
GET CONNECTED with a new program placing Notre Dame undergrads with successful alumni for one day in January!!I You choose the city and career field you would like to explore and we assist in finding alumni who are 

willing to host you at their job!H 
For additional information about this exciting new program, contact Kevin Monahan 
at Monahan.22@nd.edu or attend a half hour information session: 
August 30 4:30 pm G-20, Flanner Hall September 5 7:30 pm G-20, Flanner Hall 
The Career Center 631-5200 I http://careercenter.nd.edu 

ATI 

Thursday, August 30, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Media gain more access in South Korea: For the first time, foreign reporters will be allowed to attend routine briefings at the Foreign Ministry that in the past have been open only to mainstream South Korean media. The decision was a rebuff to the privi­leges powerful domestic press clubs have enjoyed for more than 50 years. 
Archbishop's wife accepts deci• sion: The wife of a Roman Catholic archbish­op said Wednesday she had accepted his deci­sion to leave her after the two met for the first time in three weeks, ending a saga that had embarrassed the Vatican and capitivated Italy. "For the great love for my husband, I'll respect his decision" to leave me, Maria Sung told reporters late Wednesday. "But that doesn't change the feeling I have for him," 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
AMA says no to drug companygifts: The American Medical Association is spending a big chunk of drug-company money to tell doctors not to accept large gifts from drug companies in a campaign t.hat critics say smacks of hypocrisy. The AMA is contributing about $400,000 to the $1 million effort, but most of the balance comes from payments between $50,000 and $100,000 from nine major drug companies. The AMA says it makes sense to involve the industry in a campaign that's also designed to inform drug makers about what is considered unethical behavior. 
Committee: 40,000 tax returns lost: At least 40,000 federal tax returns and payments involving $810 million were either lost or destroyed at a Pittsburgh processing facility. Senate Finance Committee Chairman Max Baucus, D-Mont., said a previous estimate of 1,800 lost or destroyed payments was "only a small fraction" of the actual total. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Fire destroys Evansville factory: 
Fire gutted a cardboard factory on Evansville's North Side on Wednesday, forc­ing the evacuation of nearby homes and busi• nesses. Five firefighters who responded to the fire at the Sisco Corp. suffered heat exhaus­tion and were treated at a hospital, officials said. They were released by late afternoon. Buildings within a half·mile of the fire were evacuated for a few hours because of con­cerns that fertilizer tanks and gasoline from a nearby farmers' cooperative could explode. 
l\larket \Vatch August 29 
Dow 
10,090.90 -131.13 
Jones 

Composite Same: 
Volume: 200 NIA 
AMEX:  878.84  -f-0.05  
NASDAQ:  1,843.17  -21.81  
NYSE:  593.53  -531  
S&P500:  1,148.60  -1291  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CIENA CORP (CIEN) +1.48 -+6.27 18.54 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) -0.96 -0.13 13.43 NASDAQ 100 INDX (QQQ) -1.47 -0.56 37.56 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -0.06 -0.01 17.08 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -4.71 -0.66 13.35 
AFGHANISTAN 

• Eight jailed for preaching Christainity 
Associated Press 
KABUL 
Two American women and six other foreigners jailed in Afghanistan on charges of preaching Christianity will be put on trial, the radical Islamic Taliban militia said Wednesday. 
The parents of Dayna Curry and Heather Mercer said their daughters were healthy and in "good spir­its." They met with them on Monday. 
"We are now working with the ministry of foreign affairs to get back in to see our daughters on a more frequent basis and every­thing is going very well," said Heather's father, John Mercer. "They have been very gracious hosts. They have treated us very warmly. We are just work­ing with them closely to hopefully resolve this issue." 
The foreigners -two American women, four Germans and two Australians -have been held for more than three weeks. They are members of a German-based Christian organization, Shelter Now International, and were arrested along with 16 Afghan employees. The penalty for an Afghan who converts to Christianity is death. 
According to Taliban law, foreigners convicted of preaching Christianity in deeply Muslim Afghanistan face jail time and expul­sion, while the penalty for an Afghan who converts to Christianity is death. 
However, the final say on any punishment lies with the Taliban's reclusive leader, Mullah Mohammed Omar. The Taliban, who control about 95 percent of Afghanistan, are constantly revising their interpreta• tion of how to carry out punishments under Islamic law. 
"After the investigation is completed, the case will go to court and the court will decide according to Shariat (Islamic law)," Foreign Minister Wakil Ahmed Muttawakil told the Taliban's Bakhtar News Agency. There was no indi• cation of when the investi­gation would be complete. 
The announcement fol­lowed the weekly council of ministers meeting in the war-ruined capital Kabul, where the parents of two jailed American women waited for a second visit with their daughters. 
Texas 7 leader receives death sentence 
Rivas was the first of the seven death sentence.
Associated Preu 
escaped convicts to be tried in the "What you call the death penalty, I DALLAS slaying of Irving Officer Aubrey call freedom," he said, speaking 
The ringleader of the biggest Hawkins, who was shot 11 times and haltingly. "I can finally be free. I'm prison breakout in Texas history run over twice during a holdup telling you right now I don't want was sentenced to death Wednesday Christmas Eve at a Dallas-area another life sentence." after unexpectedly pleading with a sporting goods store. After the verdict was read, jury to give him the death penalty The slaying took place two weeks Hawkins' wife and mother told Rivas for killing a policeman while on the after the inmates broke out of a he had destroyed their lives and that run. maximum-security prison. of the officer's young son, Andrew. 
"I don't want to just exist anymore Rivas' attorneys had been trying to Both demanded he look directly at like an animal in prison," George get him a life sentence, saying he them. Rivas, 31, said in a courtroom filled never intended to murder Hawkins. "You sit there with no remorse on with relatives of the slain officer. But as the penalty phase wrapped your face and you make me sick." 
The jury took less than two hours up Wednesday, Rivas, in a surprise said the officer's sobbing wife, Lori to grant Rivas' wish. twist, asked the jury to give him a Hawkins. "I will never forgive you." 
Thursday, August 30, 2001 
page 6 The Observer . NEWS 
Lawyers honor SMC alumna 
By KATIE RAND 
News Wrirer 
Helen Burke, a Saint Mary's graduate of the class of 1990, was recently named one of Illinois 40 leading attorneys under 40. 
The list is compiled annually by the Law Bulletin Publishing Company, which prints Chicago Daily Law Bulletin, a daily courts newspaper that has pro­vided lawyers with important legal information and news of the day since 1854. 
Every year, the Law Bulletin asks its Illinois based readers to nominate attorneys under 40 to join the ranks of their prestigious peers. This past July, Burke was added to the competitive list, and was one of the younger of the 40 attor­neys. 
"I was nominated by a mem­ber of the community. The basic qualifications are to be an Illinois lawyer under 40 who is thought to be worth watching," Burke said. 
After graduating from Saint Mary's College, Burke went on to graduate school at the State University of New York at Buffalo, where she earned her Ph.D. in Political Science as well as a degree in law. 
Finishing there at the end of 1994, she then moved to Florida where she practiced for a year and a half, before relo­cating to Illinois for a year of work. All the while Burke worked on her dissertation. Prior to her current position as an associate in the Chicago office of Michael Best & Friedrich, Burke was an asso­ciate with Smith & Herzog and clerked for the Honorable Clifford L. Meacham in the Circuit Court of Cook County for two years. 
Burke's practice focuses on all aspects of litigation includ­ing mechanics lien and com­mercial litigation, although her primary area of focus is con­struction. Working with con­tractors, subcontractors and owners has proven to be a tough job, but Burke has risen to the top of her field. 
"I know that contractors and developers can be among the toughest, most opinionated and strong-willed of any client. Helen can stand toe-to-toe with any of them. She knows the law inside and out," Peter Herzog, a colleague of Burke's, said. 
In addition to working for a private practice for the last four and half years, Burke is a member of the Chicago Bar Association, National Association of Women in Construction, Chicago Women in Trades and other organiza­tions. She has also taught Constitutional Law at DePaul University and Political Participation at Saint Mary's College. 
Currently she is writing an article with Judge Meacham on construction litigation, her spe­cialty. 
Contact Katie Rand at rand8903 @saintmarys.edu. 
CAMBODIA 
Flood victims flee to capital 
Associated Press 
PHNOM PENH 
Authorities struggled Thursday to cope with an influx of villagers flocking to the capital after their homes and crops were wiped out by recent flooding that has left at least 35 people dead. 
The government says more than 135,000 people are homeless after heavy rains flooded southeastern provinces in the past two 
weeks. 
Up to 100 people from Prey Veng province arrived Thursday in hopes of getting food. They said they came to' the capital after seeing King Norodom Sihanouk on tele­vision providing aid to flood victims. 
"We don't care if the authorities chase us away, we have nothing and have no choice," said 67-year-old Lonh Khan as she squeezed in for shade under a coconut tree in front of the Royal Palace. 
Some 500 more people from southeastern Cambodia took refuge in a Buddhist temple in the capital, Wat Svay Popae, after being ejected Wednesday from a prominent corner park between the National Assembly and the Royal Palace. 
On Thursday, police used bullhorns to ask the villagers at the temple to return to their homes, and told some that they would be forcibly removed. 
About 100 villagers packed into five vans empty-handed for the ride back to their homes in Kanda} and Prey Veng provinces. The remaining stayed back in the pagoda, say­ing they were too poor and too hungry to return home, and would wait for help. 
More than 40 policemen backed by wagons and two fire trucks stood guard outside the Royal Palace and prevented the destitute farmers from con­gregating at the corner park, which has been a favorite gathering place in recent years for the downtrodden. 
"Since I was born, I've never gone begging from anyone but this is the worst time for us and I have to overcome my shame to beg for my family," said Tum Phally, 35. 

VISOR 
better than using your hand. 




Your hand is not a personal organizer. Your hand is not a GPS. Your hand is not a cell phone. Your hand is not an MP3 player. 

More than just a personal organizer -with optional Springboard modules, you can tum Visor into a phone, an MP3 player or any number of handy devices. 
)r
93 handspring­

Thursday, August 30, 200I The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
WEST BANK 
Israeli troops pull back from enemy lines 
Associated Press 
. BEIT JALLA 
Israeli forces pulled out of the Palestinian town of Beit Jalla before daybreak Thursday, witnesses said, hours after the Jewish state agreed to such a with­drawal if calm was restored. 
The pullout, arranged with U.S. and European help, began two days after Israeli tanks and troops entered the village following a heavy exchange of fire between Palestinian gunmen in the city and the Jewish neighborhood of Gilo, across a valley in a dis­puted part of Jerusalem. 
Witnesses said Israeli tanks and armored person­nel carriers headed out of Beit Jalla. after exchanges of gunfire stopped around midnight, five hours before the withdrawal began. 
Israel radio reported that the tanks and armored vehicles would remain near the town to ensure that the gunfire would not resume. 
The move came after a late-night meeting of top Israeli Cabinet ministers in Jerusalem, including Prime Minister Ariel Sharon. Foreign Minister Shimon Peres and Defense Minister Binyamin Ben­Eliezer. 
Secretary of State Colin Powell talked with leaders on both sides to try to defuse the crisis. He called Arafat on Wednesday to assure him the Bush admin­istration was pressing Israel to withdraw from Beit Jalla, just south of Jerusalem, State Department offi­cials said. Powell also asked Arafat to help restore calm to the region, they said. Later. Powell called Peres, said a statement from Peres' office. 
Peres spent Wednesday talking to officials on all sides in an effort to stop the shooting between Palestinian gunmen and Israeli forces and to pull the Israeli troops out of the town. 
An aide to European Union envoy Miguel Moratinos said European Union experts were in the region trying to help bring an end to the fighting. 
During the two days Israeli forces held positions in the town, Palestinian gunners continued to target Gilo, a Jewish neighborhood built on land captured by Israel in the 1967 war and annexed to Jerusalem. For the first time, they aimed SO-caliber machine­gun fire at the Jewish houses, and they also fired 

Hey Fighting Irish! Get Connected Now! 
Save on High-Speed Internet &
-
-
Cable TV from AT&T Broadband 
¦ Cable TV gives you the best television has to offer with ESPN's 
2-Minute Drill, The 
Sopranos on HBO, plus over 35 commercial­free music channels. 
¦ @Home High-Speed Internet Service provides the fastest and easiest way to connect to the Internet. 
Call AT&T Broadband Today... 
For Cable TV 1-800-968-5100 
For@Home· Internet Service 1-888-824-8295 
Some restrictions apply. Offer expires 9/30/01. Digital Cable is available in some areas. Some services only available in off-campus housing. Call AT&T Broadband for details. 
60mm mortar shells. One Palestinian policeman was killed and at least 2 0 people were injured, Palestinians said . 
The State Department had welcomed the with­drawal agreement and held out hope that the truce could be a springboard to a wider accord. "Stopping the violence is the way of getting there," State Department spokesman Richard Boucher said Wednesday. 
But the State Department heightened its criticism of the measures used by Israel in retaliation for ter­rorist attacks. 
"I think we've seen incursions before," Boucher said. "There is a fundamental issue here, and that's trying to reverse agreements and understandings that have been made in the past." 
The statement appeared a muted warning to Israel to reverse the Beit Jalla incursion, the longest-last­ing of several into territory Israel turned over to the Palestinian Authority under the 1993 Oslo Accords. 
Ben-Eliezer said Wednesday he had no plans to reoccupy Gilo. However, he said, if Palestinians resumed shooting on Gilo after an Israeli withdraw­al, his troops would "absolutely" move back into Beit Jalla. 
In 11 months of Israeli-Palestinian fighting, Israeli forces have repeatedly entered Palestinian territo­ries, but stayed only a few hours. The incursion, the most extended, threatened to enflame violence to a new peak. 
Interested in covering 

the news and events that affect Saint Mary's campus? Why not write for The Observer's Saint Mary's Department? Call 631-4324. 

• "''t>-... 
':r:ia ·~Ea; 
. """':-.... -+· . . ~.,... 
~D i:CO 
s:~ .­
::'~ fill out this entfy· r 15th, 2001 to enter ircuts with Atria.Sal 


page 8 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, August 30, 2001 

r-------------------~-------------------7 
Wbe te CJIIII • •11•11¦s lli1nilst1ry 
Needdoeru0abouc•••1 ~for: 
RftREATS & SPIRITUALITY Notre Dame Encounter Sr. Sue Bruno, OSF Freshman Retreat Fr. Bill Wack, csc Sen•or Retreat Fr. John Herman, CSC Emmaus (FaHh shanns & Scr•pture study) Tami Schmitz The Way Caf:hoHc BHtle Study Fr. J. Steele, CSC 

Campus ljble Study Fr. Al D'Alonzo, CSC lnterlaHh Chnsf:jan Nj9hf: Prayer Frank Santoni Njnjstrr to Lesb•an/Gar students Fr. J. Steele, csc 

RELIGIOUS EDUCATION Confjrmaf:jon Fr. John Conley, CSC
..I 
(J RCIA (becomtna CathoHc) Tami Schmitz 
~ Narnase Preparat•on & Relat•onshjps John & Sylvia Dillon or Darrell Paulsen 
w Teach reU9ion to youth •n local panshes John & Sylvia Dillon ~ Know Your Catholic FaHh senes John & Sylvia Dillon
: ;,~ LITURGY &WORSHIP 
Ninjs1nes at che BasiHca Steve Camilleri @ 1-6282 (J~,J~J 
lof:re Dame Uturaical Chojr Dr. Gail Walton Notre Dame Folk Cho•r Steve Warner Notre Dame Women's LHura•cal Chojr Andrew McShane Celebrat•on Chojr or Handbell Choir Karen Schneider Kirner BasHica Schola Dr. Gail Walton Nus•c for BasiHca DaHJ Nass Andrew McShane Coro PnmaYera Fr. Pat Neary, csc Voices of FaHh Gospel Chojr Chandra Johnson Utura•cal/Nusic resources for residence halls Steve Warner Plann•ns music for mr weddjn9 Dr. Gail Walton 
CROSS-CULTURAL MINISTRY Latino Student Njnjstrr & Latino Nass Fr. Tom Bednar, csc Afrjcan Amencan Student Ministry Chandra Johnson I Afncan Amencan CathoHc Nass Chandra Johnson I Asian Amencan Student Nintstrr Priscilla Wong I Learn•ns to Talk About Race Retreat Priscilla Wong I 
I SPECIAL PROJECTS I Chaplain to ROTC students Fr. Richard Warner, CSC I ID Rt9hf: to Ule Fr. J. Steele, CSC 
I Yocatton to ReHs•ous Ufe Fr. Bill Wack, csc. Sr. Sue Bruno. OSF I or Fr. Jim King, (SC (631-9361)IL _________________________________________J 
Auditions 
for the Notre Dame Celebration Choir and Handbell Choir 
The Celebration Choir sings every Wednesday night for Interfaith Christian Night Prayer held from 10pm-10:30pm in Morrissey Chapel. 

The Celebration Choir also provides music for liturgies following each Home Football Game in Stepan Center. Rehearsals are Wednesdays from 8-9:45pm. 
The Handbell Choir plays for sixfl liturgies each semester in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Rehearsals are Tuesdays 
from 8:15-l0pm. 
If interested in either of these groups, contact Karen Kirner at 1-9326. 
Interested in becoming Catholic ? Or sponsoring someone who does? 
RCIA Info Session Sunday, Sept. 2 1:00 p.m. -2:00 p.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
For more info contact: Tami Schmitz Schmitz.8@nd.edu or 1-3016 
CAMPUS BIBLE STUDY 
an Interfaith Bible Study, meets for one hour 
every Tuesday night 
from 7 :00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. 
followed by a period of fellowship. 
THE FIRST MEETING 
will be Tuesday, Sept. 11th 
in room 114 of the Coleman-Morse Center. 
All students are invited to participate. Come and share your faith and your insights. 
Thllrcl Roor (Rm. 319) 
8:00 am -S:00 pm Fllrs1: Floor (Rm. 114) 

Graduate Student Picnic 
5:30-7:30 p.m. 
Fischer, O'Hara-Grace Parking Lot 
ND Liturgical Choir Rehearsal 
6:00 p.m.-8:00 p.m. 
329 Coleman-Morse Center 

Holy Cross Final Vows 
1:30 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

RCIA Information Session for Candidates & Sponsors 
1:00 p.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
Activities Night 
7:00 p.m. -10:00 p.m. Joyce Center 

Freshman Retreat #36 (September 28-29) 
Tuesday, August 28 through September 24 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #67 (September 28-30} 
Monday-Friday, September 3-7 114 Coleman-Morse Center 

Campus Ministry 
Visit us at 
The Coleman Family Center 
for Campus Ministry 
Office Hours 
114 -Retreats Area Mon-Thurs B:oo a.m. -9:00 p.m. Fri B:oo a.m. · 5:00 p.m. 
309 Reception Area Mon -Fri 8:oo a.m. -5:00 p.m. 
631-7800 
email: ministry.1@nd.edu web: www.nd.edu/~ministry 
... 
Thursday, August 30, 2001 page 9
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
Residents return home after fires 
Associated Press 
WEAVERVILLE, Calif. 
Residents began returning to see what was left of their homes Wednesday as firefight­ers continued to battle a wild­fire that forced the evacuation of more than half of this for­mer mining town of 3,500. 
The blaze burned more than 1,600 acres and destroyed at least a dozen homes. No seri­ous injuries were reported. By Wednesday night, the fire was 65 percent contained, and damage was estimated at $3.5 million, including destroyed structures and timber. 
"We're very concerned the winds could pick up and we could be in the same situation again," said 'Del Walters, deputy chief of the California Department of Forestry. "Our objective is to keep the fire where it is." 
Investigators believe sparks from a car started the fire in five different spots along Highway 299, about 2 miles west of town, said Kevin Colburn, a spokesman for the California Department of Forestry. 
Some residents who fled Tuesday night with armloads of belongings were allowed to check their homes Wednesday after firefighters cut down some trees and reopened a highway. 
Firefighters had told Ray Proffitt that his home of more than 45 years had been lost to the blaze. But he returned to find that only his three-car garage had been destroyed. 
Proffitt, 75, picked through the rubble of his garage, pulling out 50 years' worth of tools. 
The night before, he had refused to leave until the last minute, spraying down his roof with a garden hose until the fire crept onto his property and trees started exploding, he said. On Wednesday, his home was the only one of five in the immediate area still standing. 
High wind gusts had fanned the fire toward the western side of the town, about 200 miles north of San Francisco. 
About 100 miles to the south, a man was arraigned on murder charges Wednesday for allegedly start­ing a brush fire that led to the deaths of two pilots whose firefighting planes collided over the 270-acre blaze. 
Prosecutors said Frank Brady, 50, was operating a methamphetamine lab in the woods that may be connected to the Hells Angels motorcycle gang. 
In Northern California, about 55 miles northeast of Georgetown, a blaze burning on more than 9,000 acres in canyons was 12 percent con­tained Wednesday night. No structures were threatened. 
Twenty-six large fires were burning on more than 200,000 acres across the West, accord­ing to the National Interagency Fire Center. 

Officials: Pilot flying Aaliyah not cleared 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 
The pilot of the ill-fated Bahamas flight carrying pop star Aaliyah and eight others did not have federal autho­rization to fly the plane and had been in court on a crack cocaine possession charge 12 days before the deadly crash, authorities said Wednesday. 
Luis Antonio Morales Blanes, 30, had not been list­ed as the pilot for the twin­engine Cessna by Blackhawk International Airways, Federal Aviation Administra­tion spokeswoman Kathleen Bergen said. 
She said the company is cleared to fly charters under an air-taxi certificate, which authorizes a single pilot to fly the plane. Bergen said that pilot wasn't Morales. 
The cause of the crash remains under investigation. 
U.S. and Bahamian aviation officials are investigating whether excess weight from baggage -among other pos­sible causes -contributed to Saturday's crash. 
NBC "Nightly News" on Wednesday, citing unidenti­fied sources, said the plane was over its maximum take­off weight by 700 pounds to 1,500 pounds. Asked about the report, Randy Butler, lead investigator from the Bahamas Civil Aviation Department, told The Associated Press, "We're not willing to speculate at this time." He said not every sin­gle item from the plane had been weighed and he would not give a partial weight. 
The Cessna was bound for Opa-locka. Fla., when it went down shortly after takeoff on Abaco Island, 100 miles north of Nassau. Everyone aboard was killed in the crash or died later of their injuries. 
Aaliyah, a Grammy-nomi­nated star with a platinum­selling album and high-pro­file movie roles to her credit, had come to the Bahamas with the others to shoot a music video. 
Bergen said the FAA was still trying to clarify the rela­tionship between Blackhawk and the plane's registered owner, a Florida company called Skystream. The Miami Herald reported Wednesday that Blackhawk was listed on customs documents as the flight's operator. 
"It is not unusual for one company to lease an aircraft to another, but that's some­thing we have to clarify with regard to this flight," Bergen said. 
-::--­v ... V ' .. ;0)!: ··t,w~~,·,uw•3.' ,. -J' •' . . • Notre Dame's place for fun, WHERE YOU DON'T HAVE TO BE 21! • Full menu selection including the best hot wings around. TUESDAY IS 30¢ WING DAY! • Test your "Who Wants To Be A Millionaire" skills with our FREE NTN interactive trivia gaITies. • Great place for dorin get togethers. • Football Headquarters! 20 T.V:s, 2 "Big" Screens, 6 Satellites, college gaITie day football package, and EVERY NFL gaITie. • lmII1ediate openings for eITiployment. Servers ( must be 21) and general help wanted. 123 W. Washington, half block west of the College Football Hall of Fame. Downtown South Bend. 232-2293  


page 10 The Observer . NEWS Thursday, August 30. 2001 
BRAZIL 
Castro makes stop before heading to South Africa 
Associated Press 
RIO DE JANEIRO 
Fidel Castro arrived in Brazil Wednesday for an overnight stopover en route to South Africa where he will address a world conference on racism. 
T h e Cuban pres­ident was greeted at the military section of Rio de Janeiro's Galeao air­port by state governor Anthony Garotinho before heading for a hotel near the city's legendary Copacabana beach. 
He was welcomed at the Othon Palace hotel by about 100 bois­terous supporters, waving signs reading "Viva Fidel and the Cuban Revolution!" and flags of the Brazilian Communist Party and other leftist movements. 
As Castro walked into the hotel, wearing his traditional olive-green military fatigues, eager onlookers jostled to get a glimpse of him. 

Castro had been scheduled to dine with Garotinho at the gover­nor's palace, but hotel chef Mario Tavares said he had been asked to prepare a dinner of salmon with green salad and green com for the Cuban guest, the same dish he had eaten last time he stayed here. 
There was no word of Castro's schedule for Thursday, except that he was due to leave for Durban, South Africa for the 
U.N. World Conference Against Racism. 
Although Latin America's largest country has a center­right, market-friendly govern­ment, Brazil and communist Cuba have warm relations. 
Brazilian President Fernando Henrique Cardoso is one of the region's most outspoken sup­porter of involving Cuba in all regional bodies, including the U.S.-sponsored Free Trade Area of the Americas, sched­uled to start in 200 5. 
Cuba has spoken up to sup­port Brazil in its fight to pro­duce generic drugs and force lower prices from multination­al pharmaceutical companies. 
Sharpton: Aorida hostile to blacks 
Associated Press 
MIAMI BEACH, Fla. 
The Rev. Al Sharpton on Wednesday criticized the government and police in South Florida, saying he sees a pattern of racial bias caus­ing blacks to be treated as second-class citizens. 
"Everyone is not welcome, everyone is not treated the same and South Beach is looking like the Deep South," Sharpton said. 
Sharpton spoke before a hearing of a State Advisory Committee to the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights. The panel held the informal hearing to listen to residents' complaints about discrimina­tion and mistreatment at the hands of police. 
Sharpton told the commit­tee that his group. The National Action Network, would pressure South Florida government and law enforce­ment officials to fix what he called a pattern of "contin­ued profiling, abuse and police misconduct." 
"We intend to make this a national cry ... we intend to see something rectified here," Sharpton told the panel. About 150 people attended. 
Bobby Doctor, regional director for the commission, said the panel has received Source. several complaints alleging "Florida in many ways has police abuse, discrimination represented nationally some in Ft. Lauderdale govern­of the worst forms of abuse ment offices and concerns of civil rights in recent mem­over the impact of a federal ory," Sharpton said. ''The housing program. commission needs to know 
"It is very. very clear that that there's a national con­there are a number of prob­cern." lems in the South Florida Last week, Scott was area," Doctor said. arrested hours after The 
Some of those waiting to Source Hip-Hop Awards 
s  p  e  a  k  2001  was  
before the  taped  on  
panel at the hearing occasional­ly chanted  "It is very, very clear that there are a number of problems in the South  M i a m i Beach. Scott, 36, w a s  
a refrain often heard  Florida area . .,  charged with speed­ 
during the presidential  Bobby Doctor  ing and eight other  
election  regional director for the  violations.  
recount last  U.S. Comission on Civil Rights  Police  are  

year: "No Justice, No Peace." 
Sharpton and others have alleged that black voters were disenfranchised by institutional racism. 
Among other incidents he cited: A Maryland lawmaker earlier this year entered a bar in Perry and was told to sit in a separate area for blacks, and police actions with high-profile black celebrities, such as rap mogul Sean Combs and Raymond Scott, co-owner of the hip-hop magazine The 
investigat­
ing his alle­gation that the arresting offi­cer hit him. 
Miami Beach Police charged Combs with driving with a suspended license in April. The State Attorney's Office was also investigating a June 9 incident in which Combs allegedly ran a red light and almost hit a pedes­trian. 
Telephone calls seeking comment from the Miami Beach Police Department were not immediately returned Wednesday. 
"Our vows bind us together in community. We commit ourselves to share with one another who we are, what we have, and what we do." (Constitutions ofthe Congregation ofHoly Cross, V.46) Join us as our brothers in Holy Cross celebrate their perpetual profession of vows and consecrate themselves to Christ forever. John DeRiso, C.S.C. -Mike Floreth, C.S.C. ND '93, 101 ND '95, '01 Saturday, September 1, 2001 Brad Metz, C.S.C. Basilica of the Sacred Heart ND '96, 101 1:30 p.m. www.nd.edu/ ,..vocation ANSWER :-d;;": Sam Peters, C.S.C. Eric Schimmel, C.S.C. THECALL '<!::/ND'Ol ND '94, 101  

Thursday, August 30, 2001 page 11
The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
IVORY COAST 
Wade speaks against reparations 
Associated Press 
ABIDJAN 
Descendant of generations of slave-owning African kings himself, Senegal's president on Wednesday ridiculed demands for financial repara­tions for the trans-Atlantic slave trade as impossible and insulting. 
Almost every nation was once one of slave-owners, President Abdoulaye Wade said ahead of debate on repa­rations at the U .N. racism conference in Durban, South Africa. 
What they owe today, he said, is lasting recognition of the wrong done. 
"If one can claim repara­tions for slavery, the slaves of my ancestors, or their descen­dants, can also claim money from me," Wade said in an interview with The Associated Press. "Because slavery has been practiced by all people in the world." 
Advocates of reparations for the trans-Atlantic slave trade in particular are asking the West "to give us money to for­get our ancestors, and the suffering they went through," Wade said. "And I find that insulting." 
The Senegalese leader, out­spoken on both African involvement in the slave trade and the need for European and American acknowledg­ment of their role, spoke by telephone before Friday's opening of the conference. . A campaign driven by African activists is asking the conference to endorse propos­als for an apology and finan­cial compensation from nations that benefited from the trans-Atlantic slave trade. 
By the most widely accepted estimate, the trade saw 12 to 15 million Africans shipped across the ocean into slavery in the Americas and Europe. 
Although many African countries have signed past statements of support for reparations and an apology, African leaders have largely been silent in the run-up to the conference. 
On Wednesday, Wade joined the Vatican and South African President Thabo Mbeki in urging acknowledgment of the slave trade as an injustice. 
Pope John Paul II already has asked divine forgiveness -a gesture made during the pontiffs visit to an old slave barracks on Goree Island off Senegal, and still much remembered by the people of that nation. 
The Vatican's Pontifical Council for Justice and Peace said Wednesday that a calcu­lation of compensation for slavery could be difficult. 
It suggested an "apology or expression of regret to the victim state by the state responsible for the wrong." 
In South Africa, Mbeki said Tuesday he hoped for "a mea­surable commitment within countries and among all nations that practical steps will be taken and resources allocated ... to eradicate the legacy of slavery, colonialism and racism." 
"A necessary first step in this regard is an unqualified acknowledgment of the fact that slavery, colonialism and racism represent chapters and practices in human histo­ry that cannot but be con­demned unequivocally as unjust," Mbeki said. 
Wade angered reparations activists in his own country by saying he would go to Durban to make the case against financial compensation. 
What Wade wanted, he said Wednesday, was declaration of the slave trade as a crime against humanity. 
"About reparations, ... it is not possible to evaluate the damage, the injury to Africa for 300 years," he said. 
"What I want is for Europe and the Americans to recog­nize that their ancestors, by practicing slavery, deeply injured Africa ... to make con­trition, and also to teach the new generations, the boys, the girls, at schools, universi­ties, the reality of slavery, the slave trade -in order to pre­serve the memory" of slaves. 
"In Europe, they were sold as goods, and that's what's important, and that's what should be considered a crime against humanity," Wade said. He cited Catholic priests who once decreed Africans have no souls. "so you can sell them like beasts." 
"By teaching that in books, it doesn't mean that Africans want to take revenge against Europeans and Americans," the Senegalese leader said. 
The Career Center 
18tNIOR "KICKorr"~ 

Internet Recruiting, Interviewing, Scheduling Hotlink 
• 
Activate and update yourGo IRISH Acoount 

• 
Find out about Jobs and Internships 

• 
Mark your calendar for workshops and programs 

• 
Target over 1,800 companies recruiting ND grads 

• 
Obtain dates for Career Fairs and Offcampus Job Fairs 

• 
Learn about on-line Resume Books 


*Attend One ofthe following: 
Thursday, August30th -5:30, 6:30 or 7:30pm LaFortune Student Center Ballroom 
*11tis meeting is required/or on-campus interviewing. 
Sponsored by: The Career C.enter, Flanner Hall Phone: (219) 631-5200 Website: careercenter.nd.edu 
EAST TIMOR 
Voters flock to polls in first free election 
Associated Press 
DILi 
Voters in East Timor turned out in large numbers Thursday in the country's first free elec­tions, a major step on the Asian territory's often bloody path to independence follow­ing four centuries under Portuguese and Indonesian control. 
Long lines formed in front of polling stations in the morning twilight more than an hour before they opened at 7 a.m. The atmosphere was relaxed as people joked with police who were ushering women and children to the front of the line. 
Voters will choose the 88­member assembly that will write the fledgling country's constitution, and there was lit­tle doubt who would win. The Revolutionary Front for an Independent East Timor, which led the country's inde­pendence struggle, had a com­fortable lead in polls. 
The United Nations, which has governed East Timor since 1999 when four-fifths of its people voted to end 24 years of Indonesian military occupa­tion, says first results of the election will not be released before next week. 
U.N. officials say they expect turnout at Thursday's vote to match that of the Aug. 30, 1999 referendum. Then, 98 percent of voters cast their ballots despite brutal intimida­tion by the Indonesian mili­tary. 
Mari Alkartiri. who heads the Revolutionary Front for an Independent East Timor, has predicted that his party would win more than 80 percent of the votes. 
"People who vote for peace and stability will vote with confidence for a party with a history," Alkartiri told The Associated Press. 
Some of the people waiting 
Fresco 
Cata.lino's Trattoria Downtown South Bend 
FITNESS CBVli-FALL SCHEDULE 2001 
RSRC AC11Vl 1 Y BDDJ\d 1 1 12:1.5-1.2:45 Cardio Sculpt (ends 12/21) M/W/F $36 2 4:15-5:15 Step II M/W/F $38 3 5:30-6:45 Power Step n'Pump M/W $33 4 8:30-9:30pm Cardio Box M/W $26 5 12:15-12:45 Flex n'Tone (ends 1.2/20) T/Th $23 6 4:1.5-5:l.5 Step II T/Th $26 7 5:30-6:30 Cardio Box TITh $26 8 4:1.5-5:30 Cardio Sculpt Su $1.4 9 5:40-6:00 All Abs Su $1.0 
RSRC ACTlVl 1 Y BQDJ\d .2 10 4:1.5-5:1.5 Cardio Box M/W $26. 
1.1. 5:25-6:1.0 Lo Impact M/W $26 12 7:15-S:30am Step II n' Sculpt T/'In $33 13 4:1.5-5:1.5 Cardio Sculpt T/Th $26 
TITh $26.
1.4 5:25-6:1.0 Flex n'Tone 1.5 4.45-5:l.5 Armsn'Abs 
Su $1.0 
ROCKNE BDDMS.O.l 
16 5:30-6:30 Cardio Box M/W $26 
1.7 5:30-6:30 Step I T/'In $26 
ROLFS AQUATIC CENTER 1.8 1.2:1.5-1.2:45 Aquacise (ends 12/21) M/W/F $36 1.9 7:00-8:00pm Aquacise T/Th $26 
INSTRUCTOR TRAINING 20 6:45-8:1.5pm Sept. 5-Nov. 7 W $25 
REGISTRATION .Begins Thursday, August 30, 7:30am in the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. Classes are open to all ND students, staff, faculty, retireee and their spouses. Registration takes place throughout the semester. Schedule is subject to chanae, Minimum of 14 class registrants. Classes begin the week of Sept. 3 and unless noted, end the week of Dec. 10. Please call 1-6100 with uestions. 
to vote on Thursday morning 
agreed. 
"Fretelin fought against the 
Indonesians, who killed my 
father," said Angelino Andrade 
Dias, 38, an unemployed car­
penter. "Of course I voted for 
them." 
Nor was there much uncer­
tainty about who will eventual­
ly become head of state in the 
new nation after the constitu­
tion is adopted. 
Xanana Gusmao, the charis­
matic leader of the resistance 
guerrilla army, is so popular 
that he is unlikely to face seri­
ous opposition, if any. 
East Timor, which has a population of 738,000, lies about 300 miles northwest of Australia in the string of islands that make up Indonesia. 
Hundreds were killed by Indonesian troops and their militia allies in Sept. 1999, when the results of the inde­pendence referendum were announced. A multinational peacekeeping force arrived to restore order and oversee the Indonesian withdrawal. 
Some 9,000 U.N. troops and international police have been stationed in East Timor ever since. 
Indonesia, which still har­bors thousands of anti-inde­pendence militiamen on its half of Timor island, closed the land border with East Timor earlier this week, citing securi­ty concerns ahead of the bal­lot. 
Despite initial fears that the current election would be marred by bloodshed, cam­paigning has passed practical­ly without incident. 
On Wednesday, Gusmao, Nobel Peace Prize laureate Jose Ramos Horta, and U.N. chief administrator Sergio Vieira de Mello traveled by helicopter to remote villages to encourage supporters of rival political parties to avoid vio­lence. 
In East Timor's isolated enclave of Oecussi, people in the village of Malelat said they feared a repeat of the violent rampage unleashed by Indonesian troops two years ago. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

page 12 Thursday, August 30, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Pat Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck 
SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amscadcer ScENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARYS EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze: 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner C0NTR0llER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
CONTACT Us 
OmCE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFJCE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT ................................................. 631-5303 obscrver.viewpoint. l@nd.eJu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE......................................................... 631-4 540 observer .scene. I@nd.edu SAINT MARYs.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PH0T0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMs/WEB ADMINISTRATORS............. ....631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, fearures and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and races ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
uchivcs to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
staff
August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
~stions regarding Observerpolicies should be direct­ed to &.iitor in Chief Mike Connolly. 

""""..I'" 
I.• ,:;....v;:r,.., , --~­
t~l m ­
-~ Fl 
J )--~-~'·~£ ~ ··,. 
'~-~•. --. . . . ~--::--..c •... ,_{. ....., "::;,: 
.,=-..\. .,, 1/·~~~-~-~ ·~ .... ~. 
,llj-·· .. 
Don't be an idiot 
This is the time of year for advice-giv­ing. New beginnings always bring out the "wise" who are willing to offer guidance. I will prove no exception. 
My advice is 
blunt: don't be an idiot. 
Usually what is meant by these words in the Notre Dame context is that you should not commit a social faux pas like buy­

ing J. Crew (passe)  Todd David  
rather than Abercrombie and  Whitmore  
Fitch or wearing your ball cap dirty,  The Common  
with the sides of  Good  
the biJI turned  
down or back­ 

wards. (Come on, guys, that's so '90s.) 
There is a deeper meaning to the term ..idiot." The classical Greek term idiotes translates "private person" as well as "ignorant person." 
An idiot here is a person who knows so little about the way that society as a whole -the polis -functions that he or she is unable to be a truly active citi­zen in that society. It is possible and sometimes encouraged to spend one's time at Notre Dame doing little else but accruing technical knowledge (what the Greeks called techne) in some specific area and partying. 
Graduates who have taken this route are often considered successes because they excel in that narrow expertise and make money. However, they are, from a classical and Catholic standpoint, profound failures. 
What follows, then, is advice on how to spend your time at Notre Dame so that you do not become an idiot. 
1. Take the intellectual resources of Notre Dame seriously. This University is a place of excellence in intellectual conversation on the pressing issues of the day. Your basic university require­ments are not sufficient of themselves to enable you to join this conversation with any fluency. They are only a start­ing point. 
One excellent way to broaden out your base of knowledge is to take what is called an interdisciplinary minor. These minors focus upon a particular topic area but draw upon a variety of disciplines from physics to government to theology. Examples include peace studies, religion and literature, gender studies and science, technology and values. 
It may seem like a lot to take on but there are double majors who also do an interdisciplinary minor and majors who do two interdisciplinary minors. 
True, there are some majors that make it virtually impossible to do an interdisciplinary minor -engineering comes to mind, which requires more technical courses in engineering than even the accreditors demand. You may want to consider whether more narrow expertise is worth the trade-off. 
2. Catholics, take your Catholicism seriously. People of religious faith need to attend not only to the earthly polis but to the civitas Dei, the city of God, and how that city relates to the earthly polis. Notre Dame offers masses, retreats and spiritual direction. But there is more. 
Catholicism is also a rigorous intellec­tual tradition, and Notre Dame offers courses and programs of study that attend to this aspect of your faith. The theology and philosophy departments are among the best in the country. There are also minors in Catholic social tradition and medieval studies. If you are to be more than a "pray, pay and (sometimes) obey" Catholic, take multi­ple courses and even major or minor in one of these or a similar program. 
3. Take South Bend seriously. South Bend is the literal earthly city in which the University resides. (Yes, I know Notre Dame has its own post office address and zip code. So what.} 
Overcoming idiocy requires learning about South Bend. The city is often characterized as "dangerous" against the "safe" Notre Dame. This simplistic depiction is a form of xenophobia that mixes racism and class snobbery. 
There are a large number of Notre Dame students who take what are called service, experiential or commu­nity-based learning courses. In such courses there is both immersion in the city and other parts of the United States and due reflection on the complexity of the lives lived there. The Center for Social Concerns oversees many of these courses. Go there. 
4. Take the world seriously. Catholicism is often described as a world religion. It is practiced virtually everywhere. But to take this worldli­ness seriously requires more than, in Pope John Paul H's words, "a feeling of vague compassion or shallow distress at the misfortunes of so many people, both near and far." Rather, it requires what the Pope calls solidarity, that is, "a firm and persevering determination to commit oneself to the common good because we are all really responsible for all." 
The best way to build this kind of sol­idarity is to go where other people live and live with them. All first-year stu­dents (and sophomores who have yet to do so) should go straight to the International Studies office and get a list of programs for study abroad. Do it now so that you can begin to prepare for this journey. For instance, learn Spanish if you wish to go to Latin America. Find a people to whom you feel drawn but who otherwise are as different from you as possible and go live with them. If you come back from that experience an idiot, I'll stop writ­ing this column. 
Todd David Whitmore is an associate professor oftheology and the director ofthe program in Catholic social tradi­tion. He can be reached at Whitmore.1@nd.edu. His column appears every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Myra McGriff Laura Rompf Andrew Thagard 
Sports 
Noah Amstadter 
Viewpoint 
Lauren Beck 
Scene 
Matt Nania 
Graphics 
Katie McKenna 
Production 
Katie McVoy 
Lab Tech 
Peter Richardson 
POLL QUESTION 
The Observer will discontinue either Dilbert or Fox Trot for the 2001-2002 publishing year. To vote for your favorite comic, please call 631­4541 before noon on Friday. 
Current Tally: Dilbert 7 3%, Foxtrot 27% 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Nothing in education is so astonishing as the amount ofignorance it accumulates in the form ofinert facts. •• 
Henry Adams author 

O
THE 
Thursday, August 30, 200 I BSERVER page 13 
GUEST COLUMN 
Offering sympathy where it's due 
COLLEGE STATION, Tex. 
The Houston chapter of the National Organization for Women (NOW) is rallying support for Andrea Yates, the Clear Lake woman who drowned her five children on June 20. 
According to the Houston Chronicle, the group is forming the Andrea Pia Yates Support Coalition to raise money for her defense. A candle­light vigil will be held the night before a competency hearing Jonathan Jones on Sept. 12 to determine if she is fit to stand trial. NOW believes that her husband, Russell Yates, also should be held accountable for the murders because he knew she was men­tally unstable. Yates faces capital murder charges in the The Battalion deaths of three of her children -Noah, 7, John, 5 and Mary, 6 months. She is not yet charged in the deaths of Paul. 3 and Luke, 2. She has pleaded not guilty by reason of insanity. 
However, it is NOW that has lost its mind. This irrelevant shell of an organiza­tion should condemn Yates just like any other murderer. Perhaps she was, as the organization contends. severely depressed as she held each child's head under­water in a bathtub. But depression is not an excuse for committing cold-blooded murder, and it is outrageous for feminists or anyone else to offer excuses for her. 
The Houston chapter of NOW, as well as those who would support its efforts, do a grave disservice to justice and children everywhere. Shortly after the killings, columnist Anna Quindlen explained in the pages of "Newsweek" the reaction of some fellow feminists with whom she had discussed the murders. She wrote of their reactions, "And the look says that at some forbidden level she understands. The look says that there are two very different kinds of horror here. There is the entirely imaginable idea of the killings. And then there is the unimaginable idea of going quietly bonkers in the house with five kids under the age of seven." She goes on to write of the "insidious cult of motherhood." 
Imagine the response to a man, just after beating his wife beyond recognition, who tries to offer a similar excuse or explanation. Yates' lawyers claim she had a prolonged history of mental disease, including postpartum depression. 
As a result, her supporters want her husband criminally prosecuted. A charge against Russell Yates is not likely because there is no evidence that she or the children were abused or neglected by him. 
Houston Attorney Brian Wice said in the Houston Chronicle, "He may be con­demned, and rightfully so, in the court of public opinion, but there is no legal basis for him to stand trial in a court of law." He probably could have been more supporting at home. But the sad facts of Andrea Yates' actions remain and her husband had no way to look into the future. Raising several young children at the same time is not an easy task. 
But every year, thousands of parents across the nation work through the stress. They also reap the rewards of selflessness that only raising children can provide. There is no evidence of mental instability, and even the severest depres­sion should not absolve guilt. Five children are dead, and she is responsible. Andrea Yates deserves no sympathy, and NOW only chips away at what little credibility it has left when defense funds are set up and vigils are held in her honor. 
Harris County District Attorney Chuck Rosenthal has announced he is seeking the death penalty for Andrea Yates. Justice demands it; Yates deserves to die for her crimes. She held the heads of five children underwater until they drowned, methodically laying the bodies across a bed before bringing in the next child to its death. 
To offer aid and comfort to Andrea Yates is far more insane than Andrea Yates ever was. Her husband, who has lost his five children and his wife, is the one who deserves a support coalition. 
This column first ran on Aug. 29 in Texas A and M University's student news­paper, The Battalion. It appears here courtesy ofU-WIRE. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
\ LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Senior expects bittersweet final year 
Until now, I did not realize the truth about my body. I'm pregnant. And here's the news, fellow seniors: all of you are pregnant with me. 
Such a profound realization can only be the result of a long and intense peri­od of carousing, one of which I have just enjoyed during the past seven-day weekend. Months ago I anticipated that it would eventually be Senior Week I, and it has been by all accounts. The joyful reunification of great friends in old haunts has been only tempered by the lights that eventually go up at the Linebacker. Not even seniors can stop the coming of 3 a.m. 
Like an actual pregnancy, senior year will wear on the faculties of every sys­tem in the human body. It will inspire the urgency for eclectic foods at strange hours of the day. It will likely destroy any semblance of normal sleep­ing patterns. It will make us alternately irritable and overjoyed as we are con­stantly reminded of what's arriving in spite of what's ending. It will require great emotional strength to rouse the 
bodies and raise the spirits of all those 
who might have not yet realized the 
miracle of life. That miracle being 
friends, the human conductors of the energy, humor and compassion that 
serves as our fuel. 
Sometime in the hazy, borderless segue between evening six and morn­ing seven this weekend, it hit me that nine months are going to deliver the life altering event that will forever estrange me from the blissful absurdity of the collegiate experience. 
I may one day return to grad school of course, but let's be serious. Everyone's seen the grad students that teach freshmen philosophy seminars or rap about the latest Linux technology in the corridors of Fitzpatrick. These guys may have been college senior rock stars once, but by now those days have faded into the kind of glossy. neatly packaged nostalgia from whence so many VHl specials have sprung. Undergrads simply do it better. 
Consciousness of time will become a compelling factor as we go through our favorite signature events for perhaps the final time. I weep for the day when I'll enjoy my favorite three-layered South Dining Hall cereal concoction for the last time. Already. I await and lament my last chance to watch my classmates box in Bengal Bouts. Also, and I'll really miss this one, the last time I'll ever attend the post-Bouts party. 
For all the talk of seizing last oppor­tunities in this final year. I'll begin tak­ing some initiative right now with a shout out. Phil Madonia has been ask­ing to get mentioned in something I write since he started critiquing my work at the end of freshman year. Phil's a cross between George Wallace and Ralph Macchio. He's got more pride in Auburn University and the state of Alabama than I would argue those places have reasons to be proud. Phil's also an example to every fresh­man (if not also to the dream of every coed, he'd try and tell you) because he knows more people at Notre Dame than anyone I've seen. It's impossible to stand beside him anywhere on campus and not be mired in constant conversa­tions with passersby. Thick drawl or not, I salute you, Phil. 
Enrollment was the consummation that has assured we are all now preg­nant with real life. Football and basket­ball seasons will roughly mark the first two trimesters. Then there's what promises to be a physically debilitating seven-day delivery. Call it Senior Week 
II. It will break us down again before Notre Dame builds us up for the last time at graduation. 
Realize that we're all expecting until that final Sunday in May. Baby, it's on the way. 
Paul Camarata 
senior off-campus August 29, 200 l 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

•
movies 
Thursday, August 30, 2001 page 14 
Box office giants can't 4 
Scene S movie critics offer reviews ofseveral 2001 stu( 
Ii 
I : 
! L 
), 
', 
~~ 
i' 


Scene Staff Report 
Moviegoers seeking enjoyable summer entertainment over the past three months were hard pressed to find it. From "Pearl Harbor" to "Planet of the Apes," audi­ences ate up Hollywood's cinematic product but failed to produce the positive word­of•mouth needed for the film to have, what insiders call, "legs." Week after week, the major releases opened to big office receipts but then quickly fell off the charts. With the exception of Dream Works' "Shrek," 2001 's summer movies just didn't cap­ture audience support. And, based on what our critics have to say, most didn't deserve it. 
"Planet of the Apes" 
•• (out of five shamrocks) 
This past summer, few movies were touted with as much advertising propaganda as "Planet of the Apes." Not only is "Apes" a big-budget enterprise that features the ultra-creative Tim Burton in the director's chair, but it is also a remake of the revered 1967 sci-fl classic of the same name. And, like the original. Burton's "Apes" sports Oscar-caliber makeup and is based on Pierre Boulle's novel. Unfortunately, the similarities-most notably quality-end there. 
Coined a "re•imagination, not a remake" by the 20th Century Fox hype machine, "Apes" showcases Mark Wahlberg as a human astronaut in the not-too-distant future. While investigating a spatial anomaly, Wahlberg unwittingly lands on an unknown planet that is controlled by the heretofore lesser members of the primate family. Wahlberg and Estella Warren, the requisite scantily-clad female human, are immediately swept into the center of the ape-human conflict when they are cap­tured by the demonical General Thade (Tim Roth) on a slave-gathering expedition. Helena Bonham Carter enters the foray as a human-rights advocate chimp who alarmingly falls for Wahlberg, the Hairless Biped. Once Wahlberg convinces Carter that her beliefs should be put into practice, it is only a matter of time before the rudimentary "man-beasts" are pitted against the erudite apes in an epic battle for the planet. 
"Apes" does a number of things very, very wrong. Unlike the original, the humans can speak and communicate at a level similar to the apes, waiving the distinction between human and ape and rendering Wahlberg an unwilling messiah more akin to Monty Python's title character in "Life of Brian" than the misanthropic Charlton Heston. And the search for ape•human prehistory, the scientific premise that was the foundation and modern-day parable of the '67 version, is instead replaced by a simpering animal rights agenda. Aberrations such as these and many others have left more than one moviegoer echoing Heston's immortal growl, "Get your stinking paws off me, you damn dirty 'Apes!"' 
Mario Bird 
"A.I.: Artiflclal Intelligence" 
Written and directed by Steven Spielberg, and based on years of input by the late Stanley Kubrick, "A.I." is a futuristic twist on the famous "Pinocchio" fairy tale. Haley Joel Osment stars as David, an 11-year•old robot who lives at a time when computers are helping humans survive. David is adopted by a family to be their 'son' and is later cast out when things go wrong. In a dark forest full of broken androids, David begins his journey towards finding the blue fairy, who he thinks will make him a real boy. 
"A.I." promised to be intriguing mix of styles: Kubrick's chilliness and Spielberg's 

Photo courtesy of 20th Century Fox Tim Roth, as General Thade, and Mark Wahlberg, as astronaut Leo Davidson, face off In Tim Burton's remake of the classic "Planet of the Apes." 
warmth. Unfortunately, their methods aren't coherent, leaving the audience torn between a curiously chilling sci-fl flick and an uplifting fantasy film. 
Osment once again delivers a powerful performance. We see him gradually absorb the emotions of humans as the movie pro­gresses. His co-stars, Jude Law and Frances O'Conner. deliver satisfactory perfor­mances. The money that went into the pro­duction is easily seen in the great cine­matography and special effects. 
Despite these positive elements, "A.I." has a bleak ending and, like the social con­struct of his world, slowly falls apart, leav­ing the viewer less than satisfied. 
Beth Goodhue 
"Moulin Rouge" 
Baz Luhrmann's "Moulin Rouge" is an ingeniously scored, enormously splashy musical for the new millennium. As visually rich as any film in recent memory, it over­whelms his viewers with a dazzling barrage of sumptuous imagery. 
Much like the director's previous effort, "William Shakespeare's Romeo + Juliet," "Moulin Rouge" is set in an alternate uni­verse where the historical trappings of the narrative peacefully coexist with today's popular culture. 
The story revolves around two lovers, Christian (Ewan McGregor), a writer who has come to Paris, and Satine (Nicole Kidman}. a tantalizing courtesan at the Rouge. Through the course of the story, Satine must choose between the penniless writer, whom she loves, and the wealthy Duke, whose finances will make her a star and ensure a future for the club. 
Simply put, there is no modesty to be found in this film, as Luhrmann has taken everything to the extreme. The hallucino­genic cinematography, incorporating quick edits, vibrant colors and plenty of overblown spectacle is sure to induce senso• ry overload. 
Like the Hollywood musicals of old, the characters in "Moulin Rouge" burst out into song at the drop of a hat. However, in this case. the words they sing are culled from a who's who of pop music from the 20th Century, which are seamlessly combined in new and exciting ways. 
One could go on and on about the luscious production design, the priceless cos­tumes and the recklessly delightful digital effects that blend this whole world together, but "Moulin Rouge" is best seen for yourself. As movies shy away from emotions not rooted in The Julia Roberts School of Romantic Comedies, it's nice to know something as unconventional and potent as "Moulin Rouge" can slip through the cracks and give cinema a swift kick in the butt. 
Matt Nania 
"America's Sweethearts" 
"America's Sweethearts" is a light, romantic comedy about the 'real,' behind-the­scenes world of Hollywood. Julia Roberts plays Kiki. the under-appreciated sister and personal assistant to movie star Gwen (Catherine Zeta-Jones), who's married to actor and husband Eddie (John Cusack). When the "perfect couple" go through a tough break-up, Gwen's talent and fame are met with criticism from American audiences. It is up to press agent Lee Phillips (Billy Crystal) to sell their latest movie in order to keep his own job. In the midst of all the chaos, Kiki and Eddie find their friendship to be much more. 
"Sweethearts" was co-written by Crystal and has a full, talented cast, yet it cannot seem to meet the standards of a good film. The storyline is of course predictable and full of far.fetched, stupid comments. One new twist the movie offers, though. is a chance to see Roberts out of the spotlight and playing a lesser role. 
But director Joe Roth tries to cover up his poor camerawork with fake Hollywood glamour and a bunch of beautiful actors. Also, Zeta-Jones delivers one of her worst performances as she tries a little too hard to play a conceited, spoiled actress. 
"America's Sweethearts" definitely loses a few points because of its emphasis on the importance of losing weight to become sexy. Eddie doesn't even look twice at Kiki until she loses 60 pounds and buys tighter clothes. Also, the film moves slowly towards its obvious ending. With characters that are vain, greedy and insane, "Sweethearts" is best seen on video, if at all. 
Beth Goodhue 

O
THE 
BSERVER 
• 
Thursday, August 30, 2001 
page 15 
stave off summer heat 
1io releases that arrived in theatres over this summer 

"Jurassic Park 3" 
··~ 
Everyone who worked on "Jurassic Park 3" was well aware of the fact that seeing realistic, computer-generated dinosaurs on the rampage loses its novelty by the third go-round. The original, Steven Spielberg­directed "Jurassic Park" succeeded largely because audiences had not seen such astoundingly life-like dinosaurs before. But there is still giddy, guiltless fun to be had. "JP3" wisely dispenses with the exposition­al build-up and gets right to the meat of things: Dinosaurs attacking humans. Within 20 minutes we're in the heart of the action, and it doesn't let up until the movie is over. after a breathless 90 minutes. 
Returning from the first movie is Sam Neill as Dr. Grant. Grant allows himself to be talked into flying a wealthy couple, William H. Macy and Tea Leoni, over Isla Sarna, the B-site island featured in "The Lost World," in hopes of observing, from afar, the wild dinos. However, it turns out that Leoni and Macy are a desperate divorced couple on an illegal search mis­sion for their 13-year-old son who disap­peared on the island while parasailing sev­eral weeks earlier. Unfortunately for Grant, he finds this out after their plane crash­lands on the island. 
"JP3" is more playful than its predeces­sors, happily lurking into self-parody in order to keep its gears running. Indeed, there's nothing original to be found here­virtually every scene is a reworking of a scene from an earlier installment-but the tone is slightly twisted to allow for more comedy. Also, the speed with which the supporting characters are killed off is astounding, quickly leaving us with only a core group of characters struggling to make it off the island. Both of these ele­ments create a concise and enjoyable nar­rative experience, a necessary trait for any sequel. 
Matt Nania 
"The Score" 
"The Score" is a solid piece of old-fash­ioned genre work starring a brilliantly assembled cast of heavyweight American actors: Edward Norton, Robert DeNiro, and Marlon Brando. DeNiro plays a professional safe cracker who has built a solid life for himself but is now near the point of retirement. He is drawn into "one last heist" by a heavyset crime contractor (Brando) who has been setting up these jobs for the past 25 years. This "score" entails an inside man, Jack (Norton). Pretending to be a mentally handicapped janitor, Jack has scoped out most of the site, noting the secu­rity system, the building's layout, and the routines of those who work there at night. 
"The Score" relies heavily on the well-worn conventions of the heist picture, and parts of it are too familiar. Yet, there are just enough twists and surprises to keep even seasoned viewers on their toes, although not quite enough to earn the movie any true distinction. . 
Intricately designed criminal activity has been a movie mainstay for decades, so the film has a long ancestry of bank robberies and safe crackings to keep up with. The actual robbery sequence is well-done and suspenseful. as director Frank Oz deftly weaves multiple situations together, each of which has the potential for disas­ter. 
The main problem with "The Score," though, is that its parts have been so well­worn over the years to such a high polish of expected excitement that you wish the filmmakers had gone for more, especially considering the stellar cast. Even though the film is reasonably entertaining, when it's over, you can't quite shake the feeling that nothing new was accomplished. But, be that as it may, "The Score" can't be faulted for doing very well what others have done before. 
Matt Nania 
"Shrek" 
"Shrek" recounts the adventures of an ogre (voiced by Mike Myers} who lives a solitary existence in the swamp. When Lord Farquaad (voiced by John Lithgow) overruns the swamp with his prisoners, Shrek travels to the Lord's palace to plead for his land back. Farquaad barters with Shrek, promising him the land if he will rescue Princess Fiona (voiced by Cameron Diaz) from a castle protected by a fire­breathing dragon. Shrek accepts, and a donkey (voiced by Eddie Murphy, in his best 


routine ever) tags along to provide com­panionship. Through the course of the story, Shrek is able to rescue the Princess, but com­plicates the situation by falling in love with her. 
"Shrek's" well-writ­ten characters are its most endearing ele­ment. The diminutive Farquaad, the best of the bunch, has a Napoleonic desire for power that leads to uproarious situations. In a brilliantly written scene, the Lord inter­rogates a gingerbread man. After threatening to break the cookie's legs if he does not talk, the little dessert retorts, "Eat me!" The villainous Farquaad can't even threaten a three-inch treat properly. 
Shrek is a character struggling with his own differences and a community that has forsaken him. The movie's message at the conclusion is "beauty is in the eye of the beholder." In a world that still scorns homosexuals and overweight women for such trivialities, Shrek's character becomes a good example for the kids. 
If nothing else, DreamWorks Studio's "Shrek," with its competitive box office receipts, is a film that can keep Disney on its toes. The quality of each company's films will be on a better scale, and children (of all ages) can be the benefactors of such a nice reward. 
Jude Seymour 
"Pearl Harbor" 
What do you get when you combine a farfetched sappy romance with the most infamous day in American History? The latest present from director Michael Bay. The 140-million-dollar budget casts Ben Affleck as flyboy Rafe Mccawley. Rafe is sent away to England to help the British fight in The Battle of Britain. Meanwhile, Rafe's childhood buddy and fellow flyboy, Danny (Josh Hartnett), gets sent to Pearl Harbor and lives it up in the Tropical Paradise. When word is sent that Rafe is dead (yeah, right), Danny tries to woo Rafe's girlfriend, Evelyn (Kate Beckinsale). The two "fall in love" immediately. 
After 90 minutes of this pre-teen garbage, the bombing of Pearl Harbor com­mences. The battle scene is well-crafted and the time Bay has spent piecing togeth­er the spectacle is apparent. Imagine if he had taken the same amount of time to focus on an intriguing story? 
The other problem is that Bay tries to tackle too much: the complex romance, the Dorrie Miller (Cuba Gooding, Jr.) subplot, the Japanese, the actual bombing, the resulting Dolittle raid. The film is so disjointed that it's impossible to empathize with any of the characters. 
Also, the fact that it's a Disney film. and hence PG-13, helps dilute any possible realism. If you are interested in the bombing of Pearl Harbor, rent "Tora! Tora! Tora!" and find out what really happened in half the time. 
Liam Dacey 
Contact Scene's movie critics at mbird@nd.edu, egoodhue@nd.edu, mnania@nd.edu seymour.7@nd.edu, and wdacey@nd.edu. 

Photo courtesy of DreamWorks Dinosaurs are alive and well In "Jurassic Park 3," the second sequel In the highly profitable series created by Steven Spielberg. 
\~i \ 
\ 
\ ( ~ 
\ \ 
' \ page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, August 30, 2001 
\:1 \ \ \ 
I' ~. \ \ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL
1:I \ 
I ~ 
~RI\ \ \ 
I\ I \ \ \ Contract's end causes worry on all sides
~l\ \ ',
\I \
' ls ', ', ing 1994 and 1995, players and has embarked on a series of the part of players," said agent salaries, costing teams a total \ Associated Press 
owners have taken a low-key team meetings to give players Scott Boras, who raised of $30 million, including $10.6l approach thus far. updates. salaries to a new level last million for Baltimore and $9.9 \ NEW YORK "I don't really have a take," Several owners, all speaking December when he negotiated million for the Yankees. 
\ 
\ John Franco, a veteran of two commissioner Bud Selig said on the condition they not be Alex Rodriguez's $252 million, Some owners have proposed 
~ 
\ strikes and a lockout, doesn't this week. 'Tm proceeding cau­identified, said Selig has not 10-year contract with Texas. contraction -eliminating the
~ 
~ 
) have any advice for teammates tiously. trying to learn from the made any effort to solicit votes "It's certainly a much weightier two or four teams in the worst \ on whether to expect another mistakes of the past, not trying for a lockout. Teams expect economic decision and a much economic trouble. While the \ \ work stoppage after this sea­to engage, frankly, in communi­business as usual this winter. riskier economic decision to use Montreal Expos are a natural
! ~ son. cation that becomes a problem ''I'm planning on next season stoppage of play as a vehicle to target because their attendance 
~ 
"Nobody's said nothin' yet," for both sides." as if there's no change," negotiate." averages under 8,300 at
~ 
\ 
) the New York Mets' reliever At some point, the sides will Atlanta Braves president Stan Selig told owners in January Olympic Stadium. eliminating a 
\ 
) said. "It's been quiet -which start talking and they won't Kasten said. "I think that's the that he doesn't want them U.S. club is difficult because of is nice." agree. Owners say they haven't safest for me. If anything else speaking publicly about collec­the political fall out. ~ Baseball's labor contract even been told who will be at goes on, we'll adjust. You tive bargaining and threatened But the sport's legal position i expires two months from the negotiating table for their always plan to be aggressive. If them with fines. may be weakest in that state: In ', Friday -a date that makes side. The expectation is Selig there are changes, we'll adapt." Still, it's clear a faction sup­October 1994, the Florida State 
many fans shudder. The sport will send former Toronto Blue Money, as always, is the key ports change that would slow Supreme Court struck down has gone through eight work Jays president Paul Beeston, issue. The average salary was the increase in salaries, nearly all of the sport's
l 
! 
stoppages since 197 2, and currently baseball's chief oper­$1.17 million when the 1994 according to several owners antitrust exemption. some owners want major eco­ating officer, and Rob Manfred, strike started. It is expected to speaking on the condition on The next step for owners will 
nomic changes, saying baseball management's top labor be about $2.17 million when anonymity. That group at the take place Sept. 11-12, when
\ 
has become a game where only lawyer. final figures for this year are very least includes Kansas City they meet in Milwaukee. the rich teams win. Beeston and Manfred had compiled -a hike of 85 per­owner David Glass, Minnesota Revenue sharing, which 
Since the end of the last informal -and cordial -talks cent in seven years, a 12 per­owner Carl Pohlad, Houston began following the last strike, strike, a 232-day walkout that with the union last year, but cent annual rise. owner Drayton McLane and will be a key issue. The wiped out the 1994 World they didn't lead to an exten­To help pay for those pay­Pittsburgh owner Kevin Yankees expect to contribute Series, the New York Yankees sion. checks. owners have raised the McClatchy. $25 million to the revenue­have won four World Series, "They weren't designed to go average ticket price from Glass said in February that sharing f unrl this season from a including the last three. The somewhere." union head $10.45 in 1994 to $18.86 this Texas was "nuts" to give gross expected to be $200 mil­Atlanta Braves, another big Donald Fehr said. "They were year, according to the Team Rodriguez a contract averaging lion-$210 million. The revenue­spender, won the title in 1995 designed to discuss issues gen­Marketing Report. That's an 80 $25.2 million. sharing money is redistributed and the Florida Marlins won in erally and set the stage for fur­percent hike, or 11 percent "What we're beginning to see to the teams with the lowest 1997 after boosting their pay­ther discussions." annually. is, the high¥revenue teams are revenue. roll to among the top five. The current deal, agreed to in Revenue, which would have starting to understand they Fehr doesn't want to get into 
The Major League Baseball 1996, expires either on Oct. 31 been about $2 billion in 1994 need a good competitive bal­details now. He'll just wait. as Players Association, the or the day after the World had the season not been inter­ance," Glass said. "If they win his players do, to see what strongest union in sports and· Series, whichever is later. rupted, is expected to top $3.3 all their games, then their tele­unfolds. There doesn't seem to perhaps in the United States, Owners have the right to lock billion this year. vision revenue will dry up and be an extra emphasis on saving 
'i 
) 
says the sport doesn't need the out players the following day, In contrast, the Consumer people will no longer be inter­money for a work stoppage, but salary cap some owners favor which would put a stop to all Price Index has risen 20 per­ested. As ardent a baseball fan Fehr said players will be ready. and says the recent success of free-agent negotiations and cent over the corresponding as I am, I would no longer be "Players have been through large-market teams is an leave many players wondering period, or 2.8 percent a year. interested if I knew that every this before," he said. "The anomaly. caused partly because where they'll be next year. As the dollars have risen, so year most teams went to spring Major League Baseball Players the wealthier clubs recovered "I assume we'll be starting have the stakes. training knowing they didn't Association has been through fastest from the strike. lnto bargaining some time next "For a lockout, it's a heavy have any chance to win." bargaining repeatedly for the 

But in contrast to the vitriol month, and we'll see where risk on the part of ownership. The luxury tax in place from last 35 years. There is a strong that was near continuous dur-that takes us," said Fehr, who For a strike, it's a heavy risk on 1997 -99 did little to hold down institutional memory." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. A! classifieds must be prepaid. 
I
The charge is 3 cents per charact.er per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 


LOVE KIDS? ROOMMATE WANTED: Beautiful brass bed, queen size, WANT TO EARN GOOD $$ with orthopedic mattress set All LOST AND FOUND BUT ONLY WORK A FEW HOURS Campus View Apartments new, never used. still in plastic. TICKETS PERSONAL 
A WEEK? Private bedroom &PRIVATE $235. Missing since Monday: green back-BATHROOM!!! Large kitchen. Free pack from left side of $DH. Area family needs individual to care parking $282.5/month. Contact me 219-862-2082. BUY-SELL SENIORS: Contained birth certificate; back• for our two daughters Mon-Fri from at guw@nd,edu. Emergency call: ND FOOTBALL TICKETS Senior Portraits taken until Sept pack has ribbons pinned to front, 3-6pm starting mid-Sept. Mom 219-243-2383 60x30 desk 272-6619 21. Sign up now @ camouflage green bandana tied to attends grad school in Chicago. 60x30x72 desk + office chairs. www.Laurenstudjos.com while handle. Reward! Call Katie @ 4-Girls are fun and delightful! PET REFUGE, a no-kill animal GA's 4 USC, MSU, TN, WVA 271-there is still space available. 1177 Transportation needed. Generous shelter just 10 min from campus, 287-3373 ask for Cindy. 1654 
pay! urgently needs FOSTERS and Beware of sheep in Fisher! VOLUNTEERS for its cats and Gently used loveseat + chair. WANTED-ND TICKETS If interested, please call Karen dogs. Please e-mail Taupe w/ muted pinstripes; wood 289-9280 i miss orange kitty WANTED Stonehill at 272-5013. ~tunasteriJ2etcefuge CQl!l, visit trim -'Broyhill' $150 www,petrefuge,com. or call 256-ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED even though he's not orange. OFFICIALS NEEDED for baseball, 0886. 674-6150 RESPONSIBLE, QUALITY CHILD· softball, flag football and indoor A.M. 232-2378 no more double back-paw-head• 
CARE NEEDED in my home for 3 lacrosse. Experience preferred for IN-HOME NANNY needed to care Futon w/solid wood frame $500. P.M. 288-2726 kicks year old & 7 month old. Monday baseball officials. Great opportunity for infant. Must have transportation. Krups cappucino & coffee maker thru Thursday 2:30 pm -5 pm. 1 to earn good money. Contact Experience with infants and refer-$70. NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TIX george tropicana ... i mean glass, Saturday a month. Own transporta-RecSports office, Tara Fisher or ences required. Congact Dr. Sony cordless phone &answering FOR SALE george glass tion required. 5 mins from ND. Jeff Walker at 631-6100 or stop by Knoedler at 631-4262 or aJsnQe; machine $30. 
the office in the Rolfs Sports Rec die@nd edu. 277-0666. A.M. 232-2378 one, two, three, four, four, tour, four Major in early childhood develop-Center. You can also email us at P.M. 288-2726 ment or child psychology a plus. r.e~S12!:M:l~Dd,ed1,1 Seeking student tor part time repre-laura, maybe you'd like the movie References required. sentation on campus for screen ND tickets for sale. more if we rented it again!
FOR RENT
ON CALL BABYSITTER NEEDED. print & embroidery company. Flex Lowest prices. Call 288-6795. NEAR ND. hrs and flex pay. Call Dave at 800-get your futon. come on get your 
813-2113. HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM-232-0964 futon EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOP-FOR DETAILS CALL 273-2872. PUS! MENT CENTER PAID OPPORTU-After school care for two children, 3 Mmmrentals.com GA Tix 4 Pitt gm 271-1654 i love my twin NITIES WANTED: pm -5:30 pm. Good pay! Please 
Highly organized, experienced legal call Lisa 631-9947 or 277-8564. Email: mmmrentals@aol.com 81.:ying some I Selling a few extra chris •· aren't you a little old to be 
secretary or assistant to Pl trial N.D. Football Tickets playing with dolls? you need to Earn money and build resume lawyer for new, spacious offices THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and move on to more important things experience while interacting with next to Notre Dame campus; hours Breakfast Inn has space available 219-289-8048 like hair clips and headbands delightful young children. The Early flexible; competitive pay and bene-1FOR SALE for football/parent wknds. 5 rooms Childhood Development Center at fits. with private baths. $80-$115, Need 3 A$M tix ASAP. Will take 2. delgado is no thug. Saint Mary's College is currently This terrific one bedroom condo in Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. accepting applications from college Call 231-1868 and leave message. Woodbridge Condominiums is close Toll Road Exit #107. Call Pat at 277-2243. Happy Birthday at midnight Amy!! students for part time employment enough to walk to ND. Why rent? Go out and party like the rockstar positions at lunch time. The hours WANTED: Own this for $62.900! Cobntact 1-800-418-9487. A businessman needs football sea-you are! available include MWF 11 :25 a.m. Prudential One Realty or Cherie son tickets *GAs only* Will buy -1:15 p.m. If you are interested in Assistant to trial layer with desktop TeRoller at 284-2600. ND/Mich St. *****hotel sleeps 4-individual games Teddy Bear -beware of the ghosts applying, please contact Kari Alford, publishing skills for new spacious jacuzzi-refrig-hottub-exercise rm-in 5th annex. I hear they're very Program offices next to Notre Dame campus; Northshore Condo, 1428 Marigold pool-food-plagrd-shutle-rnin 2 nites-277-1659 active this time of year! 
part-time or flexible hours; competi• Way near ND, 1 bdr, 1 bath, LR, $175 nite-9/21-27 Director at ECDC-SMC at 284-4693 tive hourly wage. DR & kitchen w/ appliances. 1 car For Sale Navy, WVA, Pitt, GAS Mod quad -249 is the coolest room for more information and an appli-garage. $69,000. Call Doris at 254-on campus! But beware the wrath cation. Call 231-1868 and leave message. 1772 for more into. 219-291-5849/255-1 020 654-0168 of Lauren in you steal her sign. 
i :, 
i.'; 
, I 
;ti 

Thursday, August 30, 2001 page 17
The Observer . SPORTS 
Public records expert looks into Almonte conflict 
Associated Press 
MOCA, Dominican Republic 
A public records expert trekked to this remote farming town Wednesday to determine once and 
for all whether star Little League pitcher D a n n y Almonte is 12 or 14. 
Conflict• 

ing  docu• Almonte  
m  e  n  t  s  
a  b  o u  t  

Almonte's age have surfaced this week, even as he and his teammates were honored with a parade through the Bronx and a celebration at Yankee Stadium for their play at the Little League World Series. 
"Danny! Danny!" chanted thousands of people waving Dominican flags as the Rolando Paulino All-Stars Little League team paraded through the Bronx. 
"12 or 14 -so what," said a sign along the parade route. "Why investigate only us ... Why, because we are from the Bronx," said another. 
At Yankee Stadium, the Little Leaguers posed on the field with Toronto catcher Alberto Castillo and New York pitcher Orlando "El Duque" Hernandez -whose birth certificate in Cuba says he was born in 1965, four years earlier than he claims. 
Derek Jeter. Tino Martinez and Yankees manager Joe Torre mingled with them in front of the New York dugout and the Little Leaguers went on the field and stood alongside the Yankees' starters during the national anthems. The team was invited to spend three nights at Universal Studios in Florida. 
The search by the Dominican Republic government official in Moca, about 90 miles north of Santo Domingo, entails thumb­ing through books of birth records, verifying the identity numbers of the witnesses who signed the documents, and per­haps finding and interviewing those who notarized them years ago. 
"We will evaluate who regis­tered the documents to deter­mine which of the two is false," said Ramon Reyes, a spokesman for the national public records office. An announcement wasn't expected until late Thursday. 
Along with her son's gold­plated baseball trophies and newspaper clippings, Sonia Rojas Breton has a handwrit­ten, photocopied birth certifi­cate that says he was born April 7. 1989. 
Ten blocks away, the town's official records office has anoth­er birth certificate that says Danny was born April 7, 1987. 
Still another handwritten doc­ument obtained by the New York Daily News from Dr. Toribio Bencosme Hospital in Moca states that Rojas gave birth to a boy on April 7, 1987. 
Rojas, who says she gave birth to Danny at home with the help of a midwife in the nearby town of Jamao, insists all docu­ments but hers are false. 
"I don't know why those peo­ple are lying," Rojas told The Associated Press Tuesday at her cement home. "They must envy Danny." 
She is baffled by the lack of records at the school she said both Danny and his older broth­er Juan attended. 
"Danny never went to school here but his brother 'Cheito' did," Ermenia de la Rosa, director of the Escuella Evangelica Alianza in Moca, said Wednesday. She did not know his exact age. 
"We don't know where these documents are coming from," Rojas told the AP on Wednesday in Moca. "I know where I gave birth to my son and it wasn't in a hospital." 
The handwritten hospital record, seen by an AP reporter on Wednesday, is in a tattered school notebook and lists the names of 30 other women who gave birth the same day. It is not notarized, nor is it signed by a hospital official. 
The AP reporter also was shown a birth certificate for Danny's older 
defeated Saturday by Apopka, Fla., for the U.S. championship. 
Danny finished the tourna­ment in South Williamsport, Pa., on Sunday, with 46 strike­outs, giving up only three hits in three starts. A run scored in the last inning of his final game was the only run scored on Danny all summer. 
Rumors about Danny's age plagued the team throughout the tournament, and Little League coaches in the Staten Island, N.Y., and Pequannock, 
N.J.. hired investigators to find proof that Bronx players were ineligible, to no avail. 
Little League officials didn't question Danny's age until Monday, when a Sports Illustrated report was pub­lished. The magazine reported Danny's father, Felipe de Jesus Almonte, had registered his son's birth twice, with the earli­er record showing a 1987 birth 
date and the 
brother. later one

"We will evaluate who 
Danny's showing 1989 mother says registered the documents -the same he is 14, but evidence an
to determine which ofthe
the birth cer­AP reporter
two is false . .,
tificate says had found he was born Tuesday. Dec. 15, 1985, If docu-
Ramon Reyes
making him ments prove
spokesman, national public
nearly 16. Danny is 
records office
The govern­really 14, ment official Little League who was sent spokesman to investigate the records, Lance Van Auken said his Victor Romero, spent much of Rolando Paulino team probably Wednesday copying the records would have to forfeit its last vic­and sending them back to the tory. main office in Santo Domingo. In 1992, a Little League team 
Danny lived in Moca until last from the Philippines won the year when he moved to New final game in the World Series York with his father. Danny but it was then stripped of their threw the first perfect game in title for using over-age and inel­the Little League World Series igible players. since 1957 before his team was On ABC's "Good Morning 
America," de Jesus said 
Wednesday he doesn't under­
stand how the two birth records 
could be different. Through an 
interpreter. he said he is not 
trying to cheat anyone and 
insisted his son is 12. 
"I registered him only one 
time," de Jesus said, adding he 
did it in 2000. 
The case has stirred a frenzy in the baseball-driven Dominican Republic, which has produced such greats as Sammy Sosa and Pedro Martinez, but also is known for its poor record-keeping: Nearly 25 percent of children over 5 lack proper birth certificates, according to UNICEF. 
The lack of adequate records and prospect of lucrative base­ball contracts creates an atmos­phere vulnerable to fraud. 
"Families in the Dominican Republic expect to generate income from their children's baseball future," said Pablo Peguero. the Los Angeles Dodgers' supervisor of baseball operations in the Dominican Republic. 
Major league teams are pro­hibited from signing players before their 16th birthday, 
The Dodgers signed their Dominican third baseman Adrian Beltre in 1994. Baseball commissioner Bud Selig ruled in December 1999 that the team had recruited him before his 16th birthday and altered documents to make the signing appear legal under baseball rules. 
Other controversies involving Dominican players include Rafael Furcal, signed last year by the Braves as a 19-year-old when he was really 22, and Wilson Betemit, signed in 1996 when he was 14. 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, August 30, 2001 

II 
ii 
/. // 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Garciaparra returns to DL 
Associated Press 
CLEVElAND 
Nomar Garciaparra says his season's not over. Without him, Boston's might be. 
The All-Star shortstop was placed on 
the 15-day disabled list by the Red Sox on Wednesday after an M R I showed swelling in 

his Surgi-Garclaparra c a 1 l y repaired right wrist. 
"It just wasn't recovering the way it should be," said Garciaparra, who underwent surgery in April and missed nearly the first four months of the season. "It's still in the healing process. I need to give it some time. We've got to let it calm down. It's healing, but it's kind of hit the wall." 
Garciaparra said he can no longer ignore the soreness in his wrist, and he needs two weeks' rest before deciding if he can play again this season. 
"I don't know," he said when asked if he'll play down the stretch. "I'm on the disabled list for a couple of weeks. We'll test it. This is giving me the time to do the right thing. 
"I'm going to do everything I can to get back out there." 
Garciaparra's loss comes as the Red Sox enter a critical stretch in their quest for a postseason spot. 
The Red Sox trail the first­place New York Yankees by five games in the AL East and are four games behind the Oakland Athletics in the wild­card chase. 
Including Wednesday night's game against the AL Central­leading Indians, the Red Sox will play their next 12 games against Cleveland (five) and New York. 
Boston opens a three-game series at Yankee Stadium on 

Vero Italiano 
Catalino'• Trattoria Downtown South Bend 
Friday. 
"We've played all year with­
out Nomar," manager Joe 
Kerrigan said. "This is really 
nothing new to us. We were 
thankful that he tried to come 
back and play for us, but this 
team is used to playing with­
out Nomar." 
If the Red Sox fall farther 
back in the standings, it would 
seem highly unlikely that 
Garciaparra or the club would 
risk him hurting himself dur­
ing meaningless games in late 
September. 
Garciaparra said he would 
be upset at sitting even if the 
Red Sox were playing the 
Tampa Bay Devil Rays or if the 
season was moving into May 
and not the final month of the 
regular season. 
..I'm going to be disappointed 
if I can't play period, whether 
it's the Yankees or anyone," 
Garciaparra said. 
Red Sox team physician. Dr. 
Bill Morgan, said an MRI on 
Tuesday showed "no new 
adverse developments ... other 
than inflammation." 
"The good news is there is 
nothing damaged," Garcia­
parra said. "But the bad news 
is that the inflammation . increased to the point where I have to shut it down complete­
ly and let it heal. ff 
Garciaparra said he consult­
ed with Kerrigan and general 
manager Dan Duquette as well 
as the team's medical and 
training staff before deciding 
to rest his wrist. 
With the Red Sox fighting for 
a playoff spot, Garciaparra 
knows it's going to be even 
tougher to watch. But he 
knows that if he kept playing 
he would risk permanent dam­
age. 
"I know if I don't do this 
now, there's a chance that this 
could be chronic and that's 
something that I don't want," 
he said. "That's why I'm listen­
ing to it now. The wrist is 
telling me it hit a threshold. I 
don't want to go past that and 
hurt myself.ff 
Lou Merloni was recalled 
from Triple-A Pawtucket to 
take Garciaparra's roster spot and was available for Wednesday night's game. 
Mike  Lansing  started  at  
shortstop.  
Garciaparra  underwent  

surgery in April to repair a split and frayed tendon and the sheath that surrounds it. An exposed bone at the bottom of the sheath, an injury that had not been known previous­ly, was smoothed during the operation. 
He originally injured the wrist when he was struck by a pitch from Baltimore's Al Reyes in September 1999. 
Garciaparra pushed himself hard during rehab and came back quicker than even he expected. 
He returned to the Red Sox on July 29 in dramatic fashion, hitting a home run and two­run single in a win at Fenway Park over the Chicago White Sox. 
But Kerrigan has had to rest the three-time All-Star at least once every four days, which Garciaparra said helped at first. 
However, last weekend in Texas, Garciaparra said the pain was too much and he was forced to watch his teammates lose in 18 innings to the Rangers on Saturday. 
"That was the first time I said, 'I need that day off no matter what,"' he said. "That really hurt." 
He played the next day although he probably shouldn't have, going hitless in four at-bats. And now by plac­ing him on the DL, the Red Sox are removing any temptation he might have to play. 
Garciaparra, a two-time defending AL batting champi­on, is hitting .289 with four homers and eight RBI in 21 games since returning. But 17 of his 24 hits have been sin­gles, a sign that he couldn't generate power. 
'Tm disappointed that I can't play at the level that I'm used to playing at," he said. "I like to play, this is baseball season and I want to be out there." 

INDIANAUNIVERSITY 
SOUTHBEND 
CONTINUING EDUCATION 
www.iusb.edu/-cted 
GRE, 

Be better prepared for these critical exams with an intensive review class from IU South Bend. 
What makes our programs stand out from the competition? 
• 
Value: Our review classes are priced hundreds of dollars LESS than other test prep programs. 

• 
P_rov~n strategi~s for attacking even the most difficult questions. 

• 
Live, in-person instruction. No videotapes or remote telecasts. 

• 
Experienced instructors with up-to-date knowledge of the latest revisions in the tests, providing you with tips you may not find in a book or online. 

• 
In-class practice sessions with actual exam questions. 

• 
Extensive take-home materials for additional review and practice. 


THE FOLLOWING EVENING CLASSES ARE AVAILABLE THIS FALL: 
GRE Revi~w: first section begins Sept. 5; second section begins Oct. 22. 
LSAT Review: class meets four Wednesdays, beginning Sept. 5. 
GMAT Review: first section begins Sept. 5; second section begins Oct. 22. 
To register or for more information, call IU South Bend Continuing Education: 237-4261. 
Bonds hints at stay with Giants 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Barry Bonds hinted Friday he might give a hometown discount to stay with San Francisco next year, words that made Giants owner Peter Magowan happy. 
Magowan, in turn, said the Giants' finish will affect whether Bonds will return. 
"The farther we go, I think the better chance there might be," Magowan said. 
Bonds, who has earned $55.2 million in nine seasons with the Giants, is eligible for free agency after the World Series. In 1999, he hoped for a contract extension but didn't get it. 
Speaking before Friday's series opener against the Mets, he talked glowingly of San Francisco during a news conference as Magowan lis­tened from the third row. Bonds said his ties to San Francisco will play a part in his decision-making. 
"My family's there. All my roots are in San Francisco," he said. "I have a good rela­tionship with the owner." 
Bonds' current contract paid him $ 9. 7 million in 1999, $10.7 million in 2000 and $10.3 million this year. Magowan said the team wouldn't discuss a new deal until after its season is over, but would push for a quick resolution then on whether Bonds stays or goes. 
"If we make an offer to him it would be an offer we can justify financially and still give us the best chance to win," Magowan said later, out by the batting cage. "If that's not enough for him, that's not enough for him." 
When Bonds agreed to the extension on Feb. 20, 1997, its guaranteed average salary of $11.45 million was base­ball's highest. That mark has been broken eight times since, and Texas shortstop Alex Rodriguez is the current record-holder, averaging $25.2 million under a 10-year contract he agreed to with Texas last December. 
That deal was negotiated by Scott Boras, who became Bonds' new agent earlier this year. Boras is known for extracting top dollar in his negotiatfons. 
"I never played baseball for money. I play for the love of the game," Bonds said. 
It sounded like his first choice is to remain in San Francisco and that he would take less from the Giants than he could get elsewhere. 
"I hope so," Magowan said. 
San Francisco's payroll will wind up at about $65 million, in the middle among the 30 teams. The Giants, Magowan said. plan to break even each year and won't commit too high a percentage of their payroll to one player. 
JN@LITruE IIDAMm irllcc~ 
SEASONS WANTED INDIVIDUAL GAMES 
Preferred Tickets 

Saint Mary's College Program in Dance Course Offerines 2001 

Modem Dance Beginning Ballet ~eg!nning Improv1sat1on Jazz Beginning Rep/Perf Workshop 
Modem Dance Int. Ballet Int/ Adv Jazz Int/ Adv SpTp: Stott Pilates 
AUDITION NOTICE 
The SMC Dance Workshop will accept 15 dancers skilled in modem and ballet technique for the 200 l-2002 Season. 
Date:  Monday, 9/3  
Time:  7 p.m.  
Place:  Regina Studio. SMC  

Ballet dancers--Bring pointe shoes 
TR  3:30-4:45p.m  
MWF  11-11:50 a.m.  
TR  12:30-1 :45 p.m.  
TR  2-3:15 p.m.  
MW  3-5:30 p.m.  
TR  7-9:00 p.m.  
TR  11-12:15 p.m.  
TR  9:30-10:45 a.m.  
TR  5-6: 15 p.m.  
MWF  l 0-10:50 a.m.  

Additional Opportunities 
Interested in a Minor in Dance at SMC? For information call 284-4643 or e-mail llowry@saintmarys.edu 
Ii 
({ 
,. 
' 
Thursday, August 30, 200 I The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 

:··,; 
:.'. . :; '. : . 
·:-.:::::. ·. 
~{} : : 
:: ;: ~-~: ·: . 
:::-:·1:r=--·· 

;: •;,)IE'J,r~m· I··.. )~~. -rl. ~t~i/:•··
;:;''··1_,,.,ft~~:a. ,. ··1·:•"·~~:-a ---·-fj(:'.:'.:::·
i;.'t:{. . . ... .. ;;c : . . . . . . .; 
. . . . . . . . .. . . . . 
Re.g··ln.a.td.lEOster, 0.c.o.
!:_-. :. : ; ·; ___ ., : :; \:ii.<!:! : . : := <""!_::!: :: :; :: ;:_:-,;:.;;){!\/:. :: ;: .. ::: ;; ;; ;: :! _: ·.. :=-:· ·: ;· .: . 

;rhursdai,/!J\llg1,,isf;'BQ, .2001 
. •12::;••.'.·. 
.. .. ·.•.·•.· ..: .·:· .•. · 4 p.m.
r., • V ~ •:.:JJ}
:: 
·,1W~Irl!J1/i:'[1liiJfU~W1.S:ggQ,~tehurtroom 
. _i°('F ' •••t; ;nrr s; ·· ...: :ff/ 
: ··· ··· 
. :,111cn J.JHUJl/;fft8/~'e/1~rtm~n t of Theology
,rJr-It,},p:.,;·~·'''laf(tl.tnerNotre Dame Law School 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, August 30, 200 I 


PGA 
Woods may use Nike clubs 
there are no plans to change." with other premium brands,
Associated Press 
Nike has been developing a including Titleist, Callaway. Ping BEAVERTON, Ore. line of golf clubs this year with and TaylorMade -manufac­Tiger wears the Nike hat, Nike the help of David Duval, who tured by Nike rival adidas. 
won the British Open with a set A set of Nike graphite-shaft
shoes. Nike shirts and pants and even hits Nike golf balls. of Nike irons. Nike since has irons -3-iron through pitching The only thing he doesn't use designed a driver for Duval, who wedge -likely will top $1,000, is Nike clubs. was the longest hitter at the U.S. the same range as the other Now the 
Open at 321 yards, and again brands. athletic shoe topped the field for distance at But it will mark the first time and clothing the NEC Invitational last week­Nike has introduced a product company is end, driving the ball 311 yards that expensive, despite a host of offering with the Nike club. other pricey items now bearing T i g e r The company hopes to intro­the Nike label. including a $425 Woods the duce its clubs early next year, leather coat. a $249 music play• entire possibly at the PGA trade show er and $160 Air Jordan shoes. swoosh in Orlando, Fla., in January, Despite the price, retailers are Kelly said. excited about the new clubs, said 
p a c k a g e Woods 
with its own Meanwhile, the company also Jerry Offerdahl, owner of Golf brand of has signed Bryce Molder, a four­Headquarters in Portland. golf clubs. time All-American at Georgia Nike took the unusual step of 
"We've had a discussion with Tech who made his pro debut consulting retailers during the him, but that's pretty much it so last week at development far," said Mike Kelly, Nike's the Reno­of the clubs, director of golf. Tahoe Open. "We've had a discussion rather than 
Woods' agent, Mark Steinberg "We're just telling
with him, but that's 
of Cleveland-based International depending a them what Management Group, was at a lot on these pretty much it so Jar. ,, kind of design meeting in New York and not two guys to they could immediately available for com­help develop expect,
Mike Kelly
our product," Offerdahl
ment. 
Nike director of golf
Woods uses Titleist clubs, and Kelly said. said. a spokesman at company head­It's a prod­"They want quarters in Fairhaven, Mass., uct that rep-respectability said Titleist expects Woods to resents a sig-and trust in 
keep using the brand. nificant expansion into high-end their name in the hard-goods "He plays the full set; all 14 sports equipment for a company business, because they're com­clubs are -Titleists." said founded on running shoes. ing into somebody else's turf spokesman Joe Gomes, "and The Nike clubs will compete now," Offerdahl said. 
BOXING 
Key match pits Lewis, Rahman 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Lennox Lewis won't fight again if he loses his rematch with WBC-IBF heavyweight champion Hasim Rahman. 
"If I can't win this fight, why should I go on?" the 36-year­old Lewis said Wednesday at the second news conference in two days for the Nov. 17 bout. 
The boxers opened the fight hype Monday in Rahman's hometown of Baltimore. 
Lewis, a prohibitive favorite when he was knocked out in the fifth round by a single Rahman right hand April 22 in South Africa, is a 3-1 pick to win the title back at Mandalay Bay in Las Vegas. 
Said the 28-year-old Rahman: "I don't give Lennox any credibility. I listened to his statements before the first fight. None of them came true. Why should I listen to him?" 
Lewis declined to blame the loss on his preparation or lack thereof. He instead suggested Rahman landed a lucky punch. 
"You can't walk into the 
ring and not get hit. That punch that got through was his lottery punch," Lewis said 
"He's definitely right." Rahman responded. 
"I cashed in on it." 
Rahman was given his title shot only four fights after he was knocked out in eighth round by Oleg Maskaev on Nov. 6, 1999. 
"That's the best thing ever happened to me," Rahman said. "It helped me get this fight. It changed my attitude toward boxing. I learned you can't take anybody lightly, and you've got to give 100 per• cent." 
Rahman, who signed a pro• motional contract with Don King after becoming champi­on, wanted to have another fight before giving Lewis a rematch. Lewis went to court, and a federal judge ruled Rahman had to fight Lewis or not fight anyone for 18 months. 
Rahman, who got $1.5 mil­lion for the first fight, is to get a minimum of $10 million. Lewis, who received $7 mil­lion in April, is expected to get about $10 million this time. 

"NEW'' OUTSIDE (ENCLOSED) PATIO GARDEN HELP CELEBRATE CJ's 1 7TH ANNIVERSARY OUT ON THE PATIO 
THURSDAY AUG. 30TH 
WAOR -LIVE REMOTE 9:30PM -1 1 :30PM GAMES -PRIZES -SPECIALS 
FRIDAY AUG. 31ST & SATURDAY SEPT. 
1ST 
9PM -1AM LIVE BAND/LIVE MUSIC 
CJ' s home of the famous gourmet "super pub burgers" Come in and try the "NEW" super pubs added to the menu. 
MONDAYS OPEN AT 5PM 
KITCHEN HOURS: MONDAY'S 5PM -9PM/TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY 11 AM -9PM 

Thursday, August 30, 2001 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 


Thursday, August 30, 2001 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS 
MEN'S LACROSSE 
Irish will generate headlines in spring 
PISCATAWAY. N.J. 
The cold Memorial Day week­end rain washed out the dream of a national lacrosse title for a school from Indiana. But it also nourished the seeds of success the 2001 
Irish men's lacrosse squad planted. 
Before 2001,no one could expect that a non­

scholarship program Mike Connolly 
from Indiana. would ever Outside 
qualify for looking in the Final Four. 
But with a Final Four appear­ance under their belt and schol­arships to award for the first time next year, an Irish appear­ance on Memorial Day weekend will no longer be an anomaly. 
"We've taken it one more step. Getting scholarships is going to be great," senior John Harvey said. "This is definitely a program on the rise. Hopefully you will be reading a lot more about Notre Dame in the future." 
A full-scholarship Irish team will certainly generate plenty of headlines and acclaim in the future. But those great teams of the future would be wise to remember the 2001 seniors. 
This group of seniors that played key roles on the first Notre Dame team of the '90s not to qualify for the NCAA tournament as freshmen played even bigger roles on the first Irish team to win a quarterfinal game as seniors. 
They got to Piscataway with the second best players from the great high school lacrosse programs and the diamonds on the rough from lesser high school programs. 
Tom Glatzel wasn't even con­sidered the best attack player on his high school team -now he was named InsideLacrosse.com 's attack player of the year. 
David Ulrich didn't even start his senior year of high school but he was a two-time All­American in college. 
And no one could have pre­dicted that a goalie from Tennessee who played college lacrosse in Indiana would lead his team to the semifinals. But Kirk Howell did just that. 
Coach Kevin Corrigan has cul­
tivated quite a lacrosse program 
in the previously barren 
lacrosse soil of Indiana. He may 
one day add a national champi­
onship bloom to the top of his 

Former senior Tom Glatzel makes a pass during the lacrosse semifinals. The Irish men's 
lacrosse team had the best season in its history last spring. 
creation. There will be more first teams All-Americans in the future. 
But the roots of those All-. Americans will always be the Class of 2001. So as the Orangemen trotted happily off the field after making the Irish just one more team to fall before the strongest lacrosse program in America. the Irish were in no hurry to escape the cold Memorial Day weekend rain. 
The Irish, especially the seniors, lingered and soaked up as much of the atmosphere as they could. 
The seniors let the rain and the memories wash over them, while the underclassmen soaked up the experience and 
lessons of. the Final Four. And promised to return again. only stronger. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe writer and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Mike Connolly at connolly.28@nd.edu. 
• • • •  now a__ __ outt Student Government & the Office of Student Affairs do not wan-t ANYONE to miss out on the ''Notre Dame experience." If you or someone you know does not have money available to pay for things like football & basketball tickets, section dinners, Appalachia Seminar trips, hall dance tickets, concerts on campus, retreats, or other "quality of life at ND" events, the RECTOR FUND can help. To use this money, just talk to any Rector. He or she can use the RECTOR FUND to pay for events like these for students who are economically disadvantaged. Names and all personal information about students who use this money are kept confidential. Proceeds from "The Shirt" fundraiser supply money for the RECTOR FUND.  

page 23 
Thursday, August 30, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS 
Gomez 
continued from page 28 
Gomez, was her coach grow­ing up. 
"Her dad was just instru­mental in coaching her as a lot when she was young and really developing her talent and making her the player she was," McGraw said. 
And at St. John Vianney High School in New Jersey, she was one of the best. 
The 5-foot-7 point guard led the Lady Lancers to a 32­
1 record in  as  a  senior in  
1990-91.  
She was  named  a  Parade  

All-American that same sea­son after averaging 24. 7 points per game. 
At Notre Dame, an ACL injury limited Gomez, who listed Gonzo as her favorite Muppet in Notre Dame's 1991-92 media guide, to 15 games as a freshman. She averaged 4.7 points and 2.9 
assists that season. 
As a sophomore, Gomez played in 25 of Notre Dame's 27 games, starting nine at point guard. 
She averaged 4.5 points that year. and transferred to USC before her junior year. At USC Gomez played as a junior before a career-end­ing knee injury sidelined her her senior year. 
"She was from just outside New York in New Jersey and I think felt like she wanted maybe a little more of a city," McGraw said of Gomez's decision to transfer. "Maybe a little more diversi­ty in the cultural aspect of her life. I think that she felt like she was in a little bit too small of a town here." 
Articles from the L.A Times. Orange County Register and The Star­Ledger were used to compile this report. 
Contact Noah Amstadter at amstadter. I@nd.edu. 
Lacrosse 
continued from page 28 
feeders drew double teams ­
they did all the work for me." 
While Springer was cutting up the Irish defense on one end, the Syracuse defense effectively silenced Notre Dame's two biggest weapons -All-American attackmen Tom Glatzel and David Ulrich. 
"They knew who they needed to stop and they did it," Corrigan said. 
Ulrich, Notre Dame's all-time 
career assist leader, dished off 
two assists and scored Notre 
Dame's fifth goal but was held in 
check most of the game. Glatzel. 
who was named Notre Dame's 
first first team All-American this 
year, did not register a point in 
the game. He hit the pole twice 
but never found the back of the 
net. Tom's twin brother John, 
who plays defense for Syracuse, 
was a big reason why Notre 
Dame's big guns misfired. While 
a one-on-one battle between the 
first team All-American Glatzel 
You could score tickets to the Rose Bowl. 
Hit our Web site or call I 877 COLLEGE tn ~lgn up for-one of AT&T's College Plans. And register for a chance to win one of tw,, Grand Prize trips for you and three friends to the 2002 Rose Bowl.Winners t'it: 

... Game dckets, parade dckets ... Afrfare and ground transportation ... Six days, five nights accommodations .., $500 spending money-11+-Kick-Off luncheon passes 
-::, AT&T IB O U N D l E S S 
NI-ABC hospltallty party. game analyst meet and greet.• producdon trailer tour• 
.. Other great prizes Include 
•
250 120-mlnute prepaid calling cards 

• 
250 Rose Bowl T-shin:s 


No purcha,., nec..s,ary. Open to US. residl!!nts who are registered rul-tirne or p:irt-time college students. 18 ye.in of age or old,,r as or August 3. 2001 Vold where prohibited. for Official R ....e,;. visil www.1tt.com/conege. S""""'P5't.a~ ,ends November 9. 2001. C>2001 AT&T. Al Rights ReserVl!d 
brothers was the talk of the lacrosse world leading up to the game. John and Tom did not match up against each other. Instead, John drew Ulrich for his assignment while Solomon Bliss harassed Tom all day. 
Stopping Glatzel and Ulrich with single defenders was one of the keys to the Syracuse victory, according to Syracuse head coach John Desko. 
"When you stop those two guys and didn't have to slide [over other defenders to help out], that is when we had the most suc­cess," he said. 
Notre Dame's attack had to work hard for any opportunity and its extra effort paid off early on as Notre Dame jumped out to an early 1-0 lead. Irish midfield­er Chris Young cut across the front of the Orangeman crease and fired a shot into the back of the net as he was falling to the ground after a hard check. 
Young's goal at 12:07 remain­ing in the period gave the Irish their only lead of the game. After Young's goal, no amount of effort on offense seemed to be enough as the Orange defense completely shut down the Irish attack. Syracuse knotted the score at one at the 9:34 mark and dominated the next four minutes to build a 4-1 lead. 
Senior John Harvey scored to 
bring the Irish within two at the 
end of the first quarter. Ulrich assisted on the goal. The Irish ended the first quarter with some confidence and momentum but the second quarter belonged to Syracuse. The Orangemen scored five straight goals before sophomore Kyle Frigon finally stopped the bleeding with a goal for the Irish. Poor decisions in the first half doomed the Irish, according to Corrigan. 
"The decisions had to be made on the field,"· Corrigan said. "We just didn't make good decisions in the first half." 
The Irish added two more goals in the SeGond half while only giving up two. Harvey scored on another Ulrich assist while Ulrich closed out the scor­ing with a goal off an assist from his twin brother Todd. 
The loss ended the best season in Notre Dame history. Notre Dame's 14 wins and nine-game winning streak were both school record. Notre Dame also defeat­ed lacrosse powerhouse Virginia and John Hopkins for the first time this year. 
The Irish had four other All­Americans. Goalie Kirk Howell was named to the second team. Midfielder Steve Bishko made third team while David Ulrich and Mike Adams were both hon­orable mention honorees. 
Contact Mike Connolly at conno1ly.28@nd.edu. 
ONDAYS TUESDAYS 

9/3-10/15 
9/4-10/16
YOGA
-5:15 12:10-12:50 OCK219 $21 $25 7-8:15pm,, $25 'RS'RC 
NESVAYS nlU'RSDAYS 
-10/17 9/6 -10(18 :10-12:50 7-8:1 Spm,, 
TAI CtlI $25 
WEVNES'DAYS 
'RS'RC 
9/5 -10/17 7-7:lf5pYYl/ $21 
R~3/..r'#r:­
Registration begins Friday, August 31, 7:30am in the RSRC. 1-6100 with uestions. 

Thursday, August 30, 2001 
page 24 The Observer . SPORTS 

Football 
continued from page 28 
of. 
In Lovecchio, Davie has a proven. consistent quarter­back. And in Holiday and Clark, the Irish have a solid group of backups in case Lovecchio is injured -some­thing the Irish were lacking last year. 
But it's no secret that LoVecchio is the clear starter entering the season open­
"/ think going into your 
er. And now of the that the Irish sophomore year. you ·re offense. are beginning "I think
not a veteran by any
game prepa­w e ' v e 
means but you kind of
rations for thrown Nebraska, know the ropes a little bit more balls, he's slowly but I guess I 
and know what to 
beginning to can only
expect."
take snaps in compare it practice that to last year were previ­Matt LoVecchlo and this 
ously given to spring since
starting quarterback
Holiday and 
Clark. 
"It's clear to all of us right now that Matt Lovecchio is No. 1," Davie said. "You'd love one guy to step up and make it easy on the coaches." 
That doesn't mean that Holiday or Clark won't see playing time. · In a scrimmage last Sunday, Rogers thought that Holiday played the best, while Davie thought Clark, despite fum­bling the ball too much for the coaches' liking, made several great throws. And Davie has repeatedly said all three are so close in playing ability they will all have to see playing time at some point. 
Still, the Irish are slowly beginning to tailor the offense around LoVecchio's specific abilities. With an established quarterback such as LoVecchio behind center, the Irish are now able to do some­thing they haven't been able to do in the past -pass the ball. Both Davie and LoVecchio have said the Irish are work­ing on making the passing game a potent part 
I've been 
here . " 
LoVecchio said. "Our accuracy's improved. I think the more you throw the ball, the more you'll become a better thrower." 
It all comes back to experi­ence -experience that has been acquired over the course of eight games and countless practices. Lovecchio believes that he's becoming a better passer because he's becoming more patient, and he says he's more patient because he's more knowledgeable. 
"That's one thing that I've worked on, just totally slowing things down," he said. "I think the more comfortable you are with the game plan and all the checks and everything that's going on, the better player you'll be. It's just a matter of slowing things down and knowing where everybody's going to be is going to make you a better player." 
"I think we've thrown the ball a lot more efficiently than we did obviously in the fall and even in the spring," Davie said. "I think [Lovecchio has] come back and he's a little bit more patient back there. But at the same time, when he makes a decision to release the ball he lets it go. He had a little bit of holding onto the ball too long. His release is a little bit quicker. He's a little bit stronger." 
It's all a part of that matura­tion process for LoVecchio ­the same maturity that earned him the starting job a year ago. 
"Being around the college level, being around this level for another year compared to last year is just totally differ­ent," he said ...Coming into last year. having never experi­enced a game in that stadium, you really don't know what to expect. Anything can happen. I think going into your sopho­more year, you're not a veter­an by any means but you kind of know the ropes a little bit and you know what to expect." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 


MD AFTER FIVE e 
Saturda..,, September 1
FridalJ, Auqust 31 
ThursdalJ, A.uqust 30 
7:00 p.m. ND Men's Soccer vs.
6:00 p.m. -1:00 a.m. Flipstock
7:00 p.m. Latino Freshmen Open 
Villanova, Alumni Field
featuring bands Nine Days (7:00 
House, Coleman Morse Center 
7:00 p.m. Shamrock Invitational: 
p.m.), SR-71 (9:00 p.m.) and
8:00 p.m. "Billy Madison11 big 
Women's Volleyball vs. Idaho,
They Might Be Giants (11 :00
screen broadcast with free pop­
Joyce Center 
p.m.), Riehle Playing Fields
corn and snowcones, North 
9:00 p.m. Comedy/Hypnosis by
(formerly Stepan Fields). Rain
Quad. Rain Location: LaFortune 
Dale K, Washington Hall
location: Joyce Center 
Student Center Ballroom. 
9:00 p.m. -Midnight Open
Fieldhouse
8:30 p.m. -10:30 p.m. Drop In 
Karaoke in the Huddle, LaFortune
7:00 p.m. Shamrock Invitational: 
Lacrosse, Rolfs 
Student Center 
Women's Volleyball SW Texas
9:00 p.m. -Midnight ND Express 
9:00 p.m. -Midnight ND Express
St. vs. ND, Joyce Center 
Pool Room open, free billiards, 
Pool Room open, free billiards, 
7:00 p.m. -10:00 p.m. Drop In
LaFortune Student Center 
LaFortune Student Center 
Badminton, Rolfs 
12:00 a.m. Clover Comedy Club 
7:30 p.m. ND Women's Soccer vs.
Fridalj, Auqust 31 
featuring Michael Dean Ester,
Penn State, Alumni Field
4:30 p.m. -6:30 p.m. MSPS and 
LaFortune Student Center Ball­
9:00 p.m. Crafting Corner: Make
ISSA Welcome Back Picnic, 
room
your own Leprechun door 
Fieldhouse Mall 
12:00 a.m. -1 :30 a.m. Midnight
hanger, LaFortune Student 
5:00 p.m Women's Soccer: 
Center Sorin Room breakfast in North Dining Hall 
Hartford vs. UConn, Alumni Field 
9:00 p.m. -Midnight ND Express 
This ad is published b-, the Student 
Pool Room open, free billiards, 
Activities Office. Proqrams-subject
LaFortune Student Center 
to chanqe without notice.. 
11 :00 p.m. 9 Ball Tournament, ND 
· All proqrams are free to MD students 
Express LaFortune Student 
unless marked b-, an ·. 
Center 
FOR ~ORE IMFOR~ATIOH, VISIT: w~,w.nd.edu/#ftt,sao/ 
·1, (, 


Thursday, August 30, 200 I page 25 
The Observer . SPORTS 
BASEBALL 
Top freshman recruits start workouts 
The other newcomers include
Special to the Observer 
right-hander Tyler Jones, short­stop Matt Edwards, catcher Jay
Notre Dame's highly-touted 
Molina and lefthander Scottgroup of freshman baseball 
Bickford.
players has arrived for the 2001 
"There's no question that
fall semester and is touted as 
Notre Dame's is
one of the nation's top incoming one of the 
strongest recruiting classes inclasses. 
college baseball, and maybe theTuesday, the freshmen took best," Simpson said. 
the field for their first unofficial The most talked about mem­workout with head coach Paul ber of the class, Macri hit .465
Mainieri and pitching coach from the No. 2 spot in the bat­Brian O'Conner. 
ting order during his senior sea­Five of the freshmen joined son with 10 home runs and 65three Irish returnees as players RBI while leading Dowling to itswho were selected in the 2001 42-3 state championship season. 
Major League draft -but none ..Filling the shortstop position of the draftees signed during the with freshmen is difficult, assummer. The teams ultimately well as having a majority of yourlost any rights to the players pitching staff be freshmen," saidafter the players attended their Irish head coach Paul Mainieri.
first class on Tuesday morning. 
"The thing that makes it sooth­
The talented group of new­
ing for us is to know that eightcomers is led by shortstop/pitch­
starting players are back, so
er Matt Macri and right-hander that gives a level of maturityChris Niesel -who some con­
and poise our
sider to be the nation's top to team and 
allows the freshmen to get their 
incoming freshmen at their 
feet wet and go at their pace." 
respective positions. 
Niesel's eye-popping senior ..Matt Macri was the best high season for the nation's 12th­school shortstop in the country ranked team, Aquinas Highand would have been a first­School, included a 13-0 recordround pick if he hadn't been so and 0.35 ERA. plus 120 Ks and
intent on playing at Notre 
just 11 walks in 81 innings-for • Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information 
Dame," said Baseball America 
nine-inning averages of 13 .3 Irish freshman shortstop Matt Macri talks to WSBT Tuesday afternoon. Macri and his class­
editor Allan Simpson. "They've 
strikeouts and 1.2 walks, with a mates donned Irish uniforms Tuesday for an unofficial practice. 
also got at least four pitchers 10.9 K-to-walk ratio. The 6-0,who should make major contri­
185-pounder was one of five
butions as freshmen." have the potential to be as domi­Catholic, earning the New just for their tremendous ability, 
pitchers named a first team All­
Right-handers Martin Verger nating as Heilman or Tamayo. Jersey Player of the Year award but they also are outstanding
American by Baseball America 
and Grant Johnson joined Macri Now they're all young kids and for Gatorade. Johnson earned young men who have a great
and was named Broward
by earning Gatorade player-of­you've got to let them develop. the same award in Illinois, going deal of maturity, poise and con­
County pitcher of the year. 
th e-year honors for their But I'm anxious to see [Irish 12-1 with an 0.70 ERA before fidence-all the attributes that .,
"Aaron Heilman and Danny
respective states while another pitching coach] Brian O'Connor traveling to Cuba with the U.S you are looking for-and they all
Tamayo were two of the best
right-hander, John Axford, 
work with them." Junior National Team. love Notre Dame. It's a greatpitchers in college baseball last
elected to attend Notre Dame After signing with the Irish in "This is as outstanding a class combination and I think this
year," Mainieri said. "And we
rather than signing as the sev­the fall, Vergara went 10-0 with as you'd ever hope to put class is going to contribute great 
brought in a half-dozen guys
enth-round pick of the Seattle an 0.30 ERA for DePaul together," Mainieri said. "Not things during their career." 
that have really good arms andMariners. 
-Interested in set­-
. .-,~--­._-.. · :"·"" .:-·:._.· 
. ting up physics ex­
..-, 
periments about 3 hours per week? If you are, please see 
We all learn from one 
Find out more about: 
Mike in 286 NSH 
anothet The RCIA ~vei 
or phone 1-7057. 
• The Sacraments of Initiation 
you achance to walk 
BAPTISM, EUCHARIST 8I CONFIRMATION: 
with someone as you 
..............~ ..... j················~ 
for unbaptized persons wanting to 
explore your faith and 
become amember of the Catholic Church. 
find your place in the 
Church. Join mon thh 
• FULL COMMUNION: 
adventure offaith. 
for baptized persons wanting Full Communion in the Catholic tradition.
For more info, contact: 
Tami Schmitz 
@ 
Sunday, Sept. 2 
631-3016 
RCIA 
INFO or Sunday, Sept. 9th
308 Coleman­Morse Center 
SESSIONS 1:00pm -2:00pm 
330 Coleman-Morse Center 
: k'~~ :
C-M 
• www.nd.edu/~recsport •
Campus Ministry 
.._________.___________________________.••···································· 



page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, August 30, 2001 
Freshman turnout largest ever at SMC 

By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 
Last year. several Saint Mary's teams had trouble filling their rosters. This year, they're over capacity. 
The number of freshmen com­ing out for Saint Mary's fall sports this year has exceeded the expectations of administra­tors and coaches. The 13 women at preseason volleyball practice alone topped the total number of first-year athletes last year. The turnout is a good indication to the athletic depart­ment. 
"The numbers this year are just an indication of where we're going," said athletic director Lynn Kachmarik. 
In addition to the 13 athletes who came out for volleyball, upwards of 17 players showed up for preseason soccer tryouts and 10 showed interest in cross country. 
Although not all of those ath­letes will be starting this season, the numbers alone are a sign that the athletic department is beginning to stand on its own. 
"In the past athletics has relied on admissions and now I see us as a team," Kachmarik said. "You can't just provide an athletic opportunity, you have to provide a good athletic opportu­nity." 
Kachmarik counts two main factors as the cause of the large turnout this season: coaching staff and recruiting. The coach­ing staff at Saint Mary's has seen improvements as a whole both in quality and quantity. 
Last year, the department added a new full-time basket­ball coach, a first step towards making the entire coaching staff full-time. In addition, ·part-time "I talked to a number of incom­coaches have been putting in ing freshmen -some that more time and work. hadn't committed and weren't 
''Above and beyond a full time 100 percent sure this is where coaching staff, we have such a they wanted to come." quality part-time coaching The 12 freshmen that decided staff," Kachmarik said. to stick with soccer after pre-
New head season condi­soccer coach tioning speak
B o b b y "In the past athletics has for the benefit Johnston, 
relied on admissions and of that recruit­
working ing.
now I see us as a team.
only on a The more part-time You can't just provide an than 30 
salary, athletic opportunity, you women that 
works full­have already
have to provide a good 
time hours arrived on the 
and head athletic opportuninty ... practice fields volleyball are not the end coach Julie of the interest.
Lynn Kachmarik
Schroeder­A 6:30 p.m.
athletic director
Biek has open meeting been spend-in the librarying more tonighttime at promises to Angela working with her team. bring even more potential first­
However, time spent during year athletes. the season is supplemented by Assistant athletic director the time the coaches have spent Greg Petcoff expects up to 30 recruiting during the off-season. more women to come to the 
"I would say we've been able meeting. to attract some amazing quality The high numbers are not the part-time coaches who bring only benefit that Kachmarik more experience to recruiting," sees, however. Kachmarik said. "And it has "We're going to be able to add made a dynamic impact on diversity to the student body,"recruiting." she said. "It's a win-win for 
Johnston spent time after he everybody." was hired last spring recruiting for this year's soccer team. 
Contact Katie McVoy at 
"Some of the girls that are 
mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu.
here, I tried to recruit." he said. 


CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
ATTENTION: '01-'02 CSC VEHICLE DRIVERS 

HICLE C RTIFIC C 


SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 2 
OR 
SUNDAY:, SEPTEMBER 9 
Session will be held at 6:30 p.m. in Room 124 at the CSC. (Bring driver's license) 
REMINDERS: .I. Anyone wishing to use a CSC vehicle most attend certification each year 
.I. Requests must have accurate times and name(s) of person(s) driving (if group leader schedules various vehicles, they must inform coordinator (csc vans@nd.edu) as soon as possible of actual drivers) 
.I. Direct questions to: cscvans @nd.edu 
Vehicle runs begin Monday, September 3 
Please note: • Coordinator is a part time position. E-mail will be checked on Sundays. 


--. .. 
Thursday, August 30, 2001 
The Observer . TODAY page 27 
~~ 
FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY BEMUSED AND BEFUDDLED CUNNINGHAM 

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
ACROSS 34 Stretch beside 60 Big yard, 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON The changes you make regarding the water perhaps THIS DAY: Ted Williams, friendships are long overdue. You
1 Time's 1977 
Cameron Diaz, R Crumb, Robert need to be with individuals who
Man of the Year 35 Pink-slip 61 Indy 500's 200 
Parrish, Tunothy Bottoms, Eliza­have more in common and who 6 Attempt 36 Get kicked? 62 Scout master? beth Ashley can provide a challenge mentally. Happy Birthday: You'll be 000
10 Festive 40 Mentalist Geller 63 Scan, say 
tempted to take things too far this LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22):
14 Waive one's 64 Vortex
41 Log holder, year. If you pursue goals that are Secret affairs will lead only torites? perhaps 65 Keats title too broad or all-consuming, you heartache. Sudden changes could 15 Obsidian, starter may fall short. Scale down a bit to result in estrangements. Don't be
42 Moon,
before cooling personified find the road to success. Excess too harsh with loved ones; there will be the enemy and prudence are always two sides to an issue.
16 Huge-screen 
43 Loses the right DOWN the best ally. Once you've over­00
film format 
to 1 Oobleck's come temptation to expand too SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): • 17 Absolute quickly, everything will fall into You may have difficulties relating 
45 Cole Porter, creator 
place. Your numbers: 4, 17, 22, 25, to foreigners. Try to understand
18 Firm head schoolwise 2 Even if, briefly 
31,36 their point of view before making 19 Information unit 47 Fried filled­3 New ARIES (March 21-April 19): a harsh decision that you will 20Wine shop tortilla dish grandparent, Someone who appears to be regret. Your all-or-nothing atti­
interested in you may just be try­tude will be a problem. 000
customer? 48 Kind of diver often 
ing to find out secret information. SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 23 Untangle 52 Herring on a 4 Opening Don't mix business with pleas­21): Don't be surprised by 24 Andean fauna fishhook? 5 It reigned in the ure. You will be inclined to fall in changes at work. You will pros­
1790's love for the wrong reasons. 000 per in the end by keeping your
28 Web browser 55 Flight controller? 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): cool and accepting any alter­
entry 6 Wasn't up
58 Milk source Force yourself to get involved in ations. Professionalism will pay 29 What a waste 59 Arthur Ashe's 7 Hack competitive events that require off. 0000 pipe provides stamina and endurance. Someone CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan.
w_Road to 8 "_ plaisir!" 
from the past is likely to come 19): You will be confused regard­
31 Melee memento Glory" 9 Strong reaction 
back into your life. Be careful not ing your personal life. Try to be 10 "The Propher to forgive too readily. 000 fair. Talk to your mate and spell GEMINI (May 21-June 20): out the problems that need to be
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE author Kahlil _ 
Demands will be put on you. rectified for your relationship to 
.....,.,....,........, 11 "Yentl" actress 
Puzzle by Marjorie Richter Don't make promises that you continue. 000
Irving 
can't fulfill and be careful where AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
32 "Good Christian 46 Smooth, in 54 Sgt. Friday's
......,......,+--,,,t 12Global you invest your money. Help Become involved in groups that
Men, Rejoice," scores force
positioning fig. older relatives make the right offer help to those less fortunate. 
e.g. 
48 Scatterbrained 55 Dove's aversion choices. 000 Your ability to lend a helping13 Good hacker 
33 Director CANCER (June 21-July 22): hand will be well-rewarded by
49 Classic western 56 It has a chilling 
...,...,.....,....'!!""t"!~=-1 21 Deborah's "The Kurosawa Sudden romance will end as the satisfaction you receive.
50 Give _ (heed)
King and I" effect quickly as it began. Focus on 0000
34 Fur or fleece
co-star 51 Accessory 57 Org. that fought your work, and let your private PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20):37 Marvin Gaye's life take shape slowly. 00 Your involvement in physical
22 A-list 53 Cattle driver the Brady bill 
"Can LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): activities will be the key to get­
25_ Picchu, 
Witness?" Romantic relationships will ting back into shape. You always Peru 38 Amorous Answers to any three clues in this puzzle develop through colleagues. Your do better when you feel good 
26 Time's partner personal life fias been stressful, about yourself, so get busy and
complication are available by touch-tone phone: 
but don't blame yourself. It's time make the necessary changes.
""""'....+'!!!!+'!!"+!~ 27 Medicinal plant 39 Careless 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 0000
to get rid of the old and bring on 
~-=+~~~ 29 Proscriptions 
44 Reneged (on) Annual subscriptions are available for the thenew.000 ­VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22):
.;.;.i.,.;;.,......,,.. 30 Assign stars to 45 Dark period of best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
....___.__.__. 31 Things poetry Birthday Baby: You are creative, dreamlike and slightly ahead of your time. You have a detached way of looking at thin.gs that allows you to deal with whatever issues you face. You are very observant and therefore a gifted mediator. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, 
eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
(C) 2001 Universal Press Syndicate 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 
Name --------------------------­Address--------------------­
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
DILBERT 
TWO NON-ISSVEt> TaEPHONES, FOVR 
LOFT SVPPORT.S 
WITHOUT l>UAL <4" BOLTS, AND ONE 
CAANIV~OOS FISH 
FINAL R.A. REQUIREMENT: 
PASS "THE TEsr• 
AND YOUR F\.ASH­
UGHT. IT'S MORE 
THAN 300 WATTS. 
I'M GOING TO 
HAVE TO TAKE IT 
SCOTT ADAMS 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Campus Sports OTHE National Sports
BSERVER 
. SMC recruits, p. 26 
. Woods, p. 20 
. 
Baseball, p. 25 . Garciaparra, p. 18 

. 
Bonds, p. 18 

. 
Almonte, p. 17 




Thursday, August 30, 2001 

MEN'S LACROSSE 
Notre Daine falls in semifinals 
Editor's Note: After the most successful spring sports season in Notre Dame history. The Observer recaps what happened after the spring academic semester ended. This four-part series will continue until Tuesday, Sept.4. 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Sports Writer 
PISCATAWAY. N.J. 
The Syracuse Orangemen only needed one player to end Notre Dame's improbable run to the lacrosse semifinals on May 26. 
Attackman Michael Springer, a third team All­American pick. scored six goals on the day to lead the Orangemen to a 12-5 victory. Springer's six goals -one short See Also of the semifinals record -was 
"Irish will
the surest sign of a great day by the entire Syracuse team, generate 
. ..;Ji·)·:... according to Irish head coach
( ·. headlines in
Kevin Corrigan. ,, ' "Whenever Mike Springer has spring"' .. a big day, it means that a lot of 
,1.· page22
people were doing things well," Corrigan said. 
It was hard to find a weakness in Syracuse's semi­final effort. The Orangemen won more face-offs, scooped up more ground halls and had a better clearing percentage than the Irish. On offense, the Orange attack found Springer open in front of the net over and over again as it sliced the Irish defense to pieces. 
"I really didn't do anything," Springer said. "My 
see LACROSSE/page 23 



Former athlete murdered 
been working for the past 13 Gomez as a calm, friendly
. Gomez shot in 
months. person.back by shelter "It's tragic," said Irish "She was one of those cool, supervisor head coach Muffet McGraw. calm and collected-type peo­
who coached Gomez during ple," Shields told the Orange her years at Notre Dame. "It's County Register. "She always
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
appalling that could happen seemed relaxed. But she was
Sports Editor 
to someone who was that really a really good basket­
young and had so much ball player who fit in every­
Audrey Gomez, a star high promise in her life and had so where she went. She was school guard in New Jersey much talent." always laughing." who played two seasons for "There was some type of McGraw hadn't heard from the Irish between 1991 and argument that led up [to the Gomez in years. but wasn't 1993 before transferring to shooting]," Whittier .Police surprised to hear that Gomez use. was 
spokesman Alan dela Pena was working with children. found dead told the L.A Times. "But we "She was just a sweetheart in the back don't know anything beyond of a girl," McGraw remem­seat of her that." bered. "What she was doing Mazda 626 The shooting stunned the out there with the shelter, she in a Gomez family and co-work­did those kinds of thing when Whittier, ers. she was in high school. She Ca. park One of those in mourning is was always looking to give over the Jack Sheehan, a spokesman something back to the com­weekend. Gomez for Girls and Boys Town of munity. She always wanted to Gomez, 28, California, the group that get involved with kids and was shot in operates the shelter where helping kids." the back. Gomez and Shepard worked. McGraw also remembered 
Police arrested Angela H. "We were floored when we Gomez and her basketball Shepard, 37, early Sunday heard about it," Sheehan told family. morning in connection with the L.A Times Tuesday. "They Her younger sister, Erica the death. Shepard was were very good employees Gomez, was an All-American Gomez' supervisor at the Los and the kids liked them." at UCLA and her father. Larry
Angeles shelter for troubled Former USC teammate youths, where Gomez had Karleen Shields remembered 
see GOMEZ/page 23 
FOOTBALL 
Irish confident in quarterbacks 
college game.
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
And it's that extra year of 
Associate Sports Editor 
experience that has Notre 
Dame head coach Bob Davie 
It's amazing what a year much more satisfied this sea-
can do for a quarterback. son with the quarterback sit-
T a ke sophomore Matt uation than he was last year. LoVecchio, for example. In "We're just light years just one short year. he has ahead of where we were a gone from being a frantic year ago," he said. "No ques­replacement for a sputtering tion all three of those guys Irish offense to the undisput-could go in a game and play. ed starter entering next They all know the checks, week's season opener at they all know the offense, Nebraska. In between, he led they all have a high enough the Irish to seven straight skill ability." wins and a Fiesta Bowl Davie couldn't say the berth. same thing last year with 
Or look at LoVecchio's current wide receiver Arnaz 
classmates, Carlyle Holiday Battle as the starting quar­
and Jared Clark. They've terback. Battle had seen lim­
gone from no-name redshirt ited playing time and had 
freshmen to legitimate con-coaches and fans alike won­
tenders for LoVecchio's posi-dering what he was capable 
tion even though neither one -----="".'"-::-=::-:-::-:-:-----:-:­of them has taken a snap in a see FOOTBALL/page 24 
. ND Women's Soccer vs. Penn State, Friday, 7:30 p.m. 
OBSERVER 
. ND Volleyball vs. SW Texas State, Friday, 7 p.m.
SPORTS 
online classifieds 
. ND Men's Soccer vs. Michigan, Sunday, 2:30 p.m.AT AGLANCE . SMC Volleyball vs. Bethel, Monday, 7 p.m. http://www.nd.edu/~observer 






