
What students want 
The blessings continue 
See candidate profiles. cheers andjeers and 
The third night ofthis series welcomed Notre 
Thursday
important schedule details ofthis year's 
Dame students who had worked at a 
student government election. 
Chilean orphanage. 
FEBRUARY 8,
Pullout 
News . page 9 
2001 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXIV NO. 83 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

Candidates introduce themselves in serious debates 
assign Senate and CLC duties
ByJASON McFARLEY 
to the Hall Presidents Council.
Assistant News Editor 
Asked about the feasibility of the Senate voting to dissolve 
With the exception of a few itself, Zimmerman said, periods of laughter, a 90­

"Senators will do what's best minute student body president for the student body. It's not 
candidates' debate Wednesday like they're voting themselves 
night was marked by serious 
off the island and can't come 

discussion of issues and goals. 
back." The reference to the 

The format of the annual popular television show event allowed each ticket 
"Survivor" attracted laughter

about 12 total minutes for and applause.introducing itself and its plat­
At another point, Ne'lson,

form, answering panel ques­
encouraging

tions and pre­renovations to 
senting clos­
"We need to expand our the LaFortune 

ing state­
Student 

ments. The vision beyond issues that 
Center, called debate was affect students the center's students• first 
immediately.... current condi­

chance to for­tions "pretty 
m ally meet piss-poor," a the candi­Yogeld Andre 
comment also 

dates before vice presidential candidate met with the primary audience election 
chuckles. Monday. The five other tickets, 
In general, five tickets' Maureen Gottlieb and Victoria remarks were met with polite Fetterman, Demetra Smith and applause from the audience of Yogeld Andre, Brooke Norton about 50 inside the Hesburgh and Brian Moscona, Holt Library auditorium. Running Zeidler and Allison Henisey mates Chris Zimmerman and and Ryan Becker and Nikki 
Andy Nelson, however, drew McCord, triggered less of a the biggest reactions from the reaction from the audience. crowd. After discussing their plat­Several times a sarcastic forms, these five campaigns 
audience laughed openly at the received respectful applause sophomore Fisher Hall resi­from an otherwise indifferent dents. whose platform calls for audience. 
dissolving the Student 5enate But some tickets drew atten• and Campus Life Council (CLC). tion to themselves based on The men said they plan to their issues. 
The Smith-Andre ticket, for example, focused on social jus­tice issues in addition to more common campaign promises, such as cable in residence halls, that characterized other candidates' platforms. 
"We need to expand our 

vision beyond issues that affect students immediately," Andre said. 
During the panel portion of the debate -which allowed campus media representatives to ask candidates a series of three questions over a three-
minute period -Observer reporter Laura Rompf targeted the section of the Norton­Moscona platform that propos­es bringing hip-hop and rap artists to the University to 
see· DEBATE /page 4 
Africa11-American candidates e·mbrace role model status 
Editor's Note: This is the fourth of a five-part series examining differnt ·issues in this year's student body elec­tion. 
By lAURA ROMPF Assistant News Editor 
In March 1970, when Dave Krashna won the Notre Dame student body presidential election, he set a precedent in two ways. 

Krashna won a majority of votes in every hall and shattered all previous records ­capturing 63.6 percent of the vote, with the next ticket winning only 28 percent. 
Perhaps more importantly, Krashna was the first African-American to be elected stu­dent. body president. Krashna paved the way for minorities in Notre Dame student government, and this year, two tickets include African-American vice presidential candidates. 
Vice presidential candidate Yogeld Andre, who is running V\-ith Demetra Smith, said it is important for everyone, not just minori­ties, to get involved in student government. When he decided to run for office, he did not think about the fact he was a minority, but simply wanted to serve the community. 
However, Andre said he does understand that he will be a role model for current minority students on campus, as well as incoming freshman. 
"I think it will be important to show incoming minority students that a minority is student body vice president," Andre said. "A lot think it is all Irish and Catholic here, and I would be able to show them that you can get more involved and make this more ofyour home ifyou choose to." 
Vice presidential candidate Nikki McCord, who is running with Ryan Becker, said she knows the office holds a lot of responsibility. 
"I would feel honored [to be vice presi­dent]," McCord said. "I know that there are issues that separate us, but I want to look beyond those ... I hope I can serve as a visi­ble symbol that Notre Dame is an accepting community that is open to new ideas and experiences." 
McCord said relationships she has devel­oped with Multicultural Student Programs and Services director Iris Outlaw and assis­tant director Kevin Huie, and also the bond she has with Father Malloy's assistant Chandra Johnson, will be beneficial in ful­filling the Becker/McCord campaign promis­es. 
"From being in a close relationship with these individuals, I will be more aware of good way to serve the student body in a way what students want from the University on I haven't before." the student government/administration McCord said she is not running simply level," McCord said. "I would work with because she is a black female, rather she them to implement those ideas." also wants to serve the Notre Dame com­
Andre, who is from New York but was munity. However, McCord does have a born in Haiti, said his diverse background pride for her ethnicity. will be beneficial when serving as student "I've always identified myself first as a body president. black female. I think it is important to have 
"I've always been able your identity and know to experience different who you are," she said.
"After I figured out who I 
cultures, and I try to "After I figured out who I embrace everyone," he was, I knew I could do was, I knew I could do said. "I thinking coming · anything at this anything at this from a different back• University I wanted to. I
University I wanted to.,, 
ground will help bring have the same opportu­new issues forward." nities as any student Despite the fact that Nikki McCord here." McCord said she
Andre has not been in vice presidential candidate 
Notre Dame student gov­learned Notre Dame is ernment, he sees being an accepting community vice president as an extension of activities when dealing with racial issues when she in which he has already participated. ran for freshman class council. 
"For someone who's always been "When I won, I knew I was part of the involved in student government, you see it Notre Dame community, and that people as a natural progression [to run for student looked at me as Nikki McCord, and not a body president]," Andre said. "But both black female," McCord said. "There has 
Demetra and I. who have always been never been a day when I didn't want to be a active in our communities, we see this as a black female -that's who l am, and who I way to get involved ... I thought this was a want to be." 

page2 The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, February 8, 200 l 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Go, theo, go. 
I change majors more than I change my away message. But now, I have to pick one and stick to . one -and pray that I can survive one. 
I entered college thinking that I was going to be some masterful Biology major. A true pre-med all the way. Then, about halfway into my freshman year it occurred to me. I hate plants. Not just hate, I detest them. In one semes­ter, I had already reached my chloroplast tolerance. I could take no more. 
I began to dread every­thing that had pistils and I yearned to be filament free. I was overcome with the fear of becoming a lab rat, and that fear became a reality when a dining hall experience left , me with fully dissected piece of celery. 
How could I be a bio major if I didn't enjoy plants? I looked at the requirements. I couldn't. Would I ever really need to know all those basic microscopic plant parts? As a doctor I wouldn't be performing surgery on Elodea leaves ­unless some kid ingested them. 
So, I changed majors. On my way to bio I noticed all the little white lab coats hanging in a row. How fun to wear one of those everyday! Maybe chemistry was for me. That lasted about three weeks. No way, no how. Not only did it involve more time in a lab, but also time spent with chemicals that had the ability to burn my hand off. I know people are probably saying, "Man, what type of a doctor will this kid be?" But, I assure you, I deal a lot better with people than petrol. It's just not my bag, baby. I can wait four more years to wear the white lab coat. 
I skipped math and engineering all together. Like many other students, the reputation alone scared me. I had enough physics, graphing and compasses to last me a lifetime just by looking at the artwork on the lawn in front of the building. 
Finally, after reading a book on medical school admissions, I realized that I didn't need to have some grand technical undergraduate major to be a doctor. I could major in whatever my little heart desired. It became an issue of what I enjoy, and what I would enjoy learning more about. That made it easy: Theology. Two more years of theology classes sounded really appealing to me, more so than political science, even more than music! 
This change doesn't mean that I won't be tak­ing premed courses. But there will he no more plants for this chickadee, I hope. And the more I think about it, the more I believe that theology is the perfect major for me entering the medical profession. We need religion in medicine. I will need religion in my practice. Jesus is the ulti­mate partner. 
I can picture my office now. I see the big desk, 
I see my lab coat with my own name on it. My 
medical school diploma will be on the wall, but 
more prominently displayed will be the crucifix. 
The diploma will be there to show people where 
I got my medical education, but the crucifix will 
be there to show why. 
Now, I love talking about my major. But even 
more, I love seeing people's reaction when I 
answer the question, "What are you going to do 
with a religious studies major?" 
"Easy," I answer. "I'm going to medical 
school." 
And with my partner in my heart, anything is 
possible. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Kate Nagengast Matt Nania Kelly Hager Graphics Courtney Boyle Jose Cuellar 
Finn Pressly Production Sports Rachael Protzman 
Katie Hughes Lab Tech Viewpoint Tony Floyd Pat Odewski 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and v:ication periods. The Obsciver is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction righcs arc reserved. 


LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 
ee 

•e •
STATIONARY
C 2001 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM 
,,,_.,,.: 

(:~/>:>) [2J. ~, ~' ~gi. t~]i~
® © .
High Low Showers Rain T-1tonn1 Flume• Snow Ice Pl Cloudy Clo 
Atlanta 71 52 Las Vegas 71 45 Portland 61 42 Baltimore 49 41 Memphis 68 59 Sacramento 57 37 Boston 40 20 Milwaukee 44 28 St. Louis 59 38 Chicago 50 47 New York 70 49 Tampa 69 44 Houston 78 67 Philadelphia 47 36 Washington DC 55 32 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Thursday  Friday  
. Lecture: Antonia  . Performance: "Guys and  
Castaneda: "Lullabies,  Dolls," tickets available at  
History, and Memory,"  LaFortune, 7:30 p.m.,  
4 p.m., McKenna Hall  Washington Hall  
. Movie:  "Autumn in New  . Event: "Sophomore  
York," 10:30 p.m.,  Literary Festival -C.K.  
DeBartolo 155  Williams," 8 to 10 p.m.,  
LaFortune Ballroom  

Saturday 
. 
Film: "Dancer in the Dark," 9:45 p.m., The Snite 

. 
Concert: "Matthew West in Concert," 10 p.m., Reeker's 

. 
Event: Sophomore Parent's Weekend, Saint Mary's 


Sunday 
. Misa en Espanol: 
1:30 p.m., Zahm Hall 
. 
Workshop: Poetry Workshop, 2 p.m., Notre Dame Room, LaFortune 

. 
Event: Sophomore Parent's Weekend, Saint Mary's 



PROVIDENCE 
Students are more liberal yet more politically disinterested, care more about affiuence and less about status, have made modest strides toward closing the technological gender gap and are less likely to smoke or drink, according to the findings of the 2000 CIRP Freshman Survey. conducted by University of California-Los Angeles' Higher Education Research Institute. 
These trends were based on the responses of 269,413 students at 434 institutions of higher learning. 
The survey found that more enter­ing freshmen than ever -78 percent, compared with 68 percent last year ­reported using a computer frequently in the past year. · 
Meanwhile, students are more polit­ically disinterested than ever before. 
Only 28.1 percent of entering col­lege students said they keep up to date with political happenings, com­pared with over 60 percent in the late 1960s. 
"Students feel political issues are not relative to their own lives," said Linda Sax, director of the survey. "They feel politics is too cynical and there's not much they can do about it." 
At the same time, more students identified themselves as being "far left" or "liberal," with 27.7 percent doing so as compared to 26 percent in 1999. This translated into greater support for socially liberal ideas such as marijuana legalization and opposition to the death penalty. where support was sharply up to 
31.2 percent, compared with less than 25 percent two years ago. "It's one of those issues students may have picked up on," Sax said. 
Another ideological trend was the growing acceptance and support of gay rights. with a record-high 56 percent of incoming students sup­porting same-sex marriages. Sax said this number was higher than national results, though the trend is present in adult surveys also. 
PURDUE UNIVERSTIY 
Four students die in 8-day span 
Purdue University sophomore Travis Simpson was found dead Saturday in his off-campus apartment. The cause of his death is not clear, but police said they do not suspect foul play. Simpson's is the latest in a string of unrelated student deaths. During the an eight day span, four Purdue students have died. Matt Cahill and Jacob Cushman were killed Jan. 26 in a car crash in Grant County. Less than a week earlier, Laura Williams was found dead in her apart­ment in a case that remains under investigation. Police said the deaths are not related to each other, but also noted that it's strangeness to have that many deaths in that short a time. Lt. Jason Dombkowski of the West Lafayette Police Department said he couldn't remember the last time several University students died at nearly the same time. "It's very rare," he said. "I've never seen that many deaths in such a short time in the campus area. I have seen some concern from Purdue stu­dents and certainly some shock." 
COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY 
Professor Gore gives first lecture 
Dressed as a professor in khakis and a sweater, former Vice President Al Gore strode past dozens of members of the local and national media Tuesday and into the Journalism building to teach his first class as a visiting professor at Columbia University's School of Journalism. "I'm excited about it," a smiling Gore told the throng of onlookers who had gathered to see him on campus for the first time since he campaigned here last October. Gore accepted a position in late January as a visiting pro­fessor, agreeing to teach between six and eight lectures as part of a class on national news reporting. Gore's class consists of about 60 students from the School of Journalism, the School of International and Public Affairs, and Columbia College. "I had a great time," Gore said afterwards. "The students are terrific and the ques­tions were fantastic, and I really enjoyed it. I thought it was a very interesting time. I hope they had a good time; I certainly did." While on campus, Gore also attended a meeting with members of the Institute for Child and Family Policy, where he will act as a visiting scholar. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Study paints picture of today's college student 


·-----~---------------------------­

Thursday, February 8, 2001 page 3 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 


Amistad actor speaks about social pressures on children 

MOLLY WALSH/The Observer 
Derrick Ashong addressed students about his experience living in a variety of places while he grew up, including New York and Saudi Arabia. These differ­ent homes showed him the inconsistency of peer pressures and the Impor­tance of remaining true to yourself. 
By COURTNEY BOYLE 
News Writer 

Derrick Ashong, an African American who starred in Amistad, spoke to stu­dents about the social pressures kids face in a Black History Month lecture Wednesday. 
Moving from place to place while growing up. Ashong discovered what was cool in New York was not cool in Saudi Arabia. Moving in and out of the United States, Ashong had to learn to adapt to what was termed as cool in the society where he was living. 
"I was always the outsider," Ashong said. "As soon as we went to a certain place and I figured out what was to be cool we picked it up and moved to another place. Different societies have different views." 
What it means to "be cool" is an issue kids have to face in today's society. 
"While kids will say that being cool means being yourself, people will just say it because it has a nice ring to it," Ashong said. 
He believes, however. being cool usu­ally has a lot less to do with people as individuals, but more to do with a cer­tain society and what its expectations are. 
During Ashong's high school days he realized he did not fit into any of the defined groups of Americans, British or the Arabians. 
It was at this time that he realized he needed to be who he was. 
"I don't fit into any of the groups solely -let me not worry about fitting into these groups, let me just be who I am," said Ashong. 
"The idea that I would be my own person had a profound impact on my life." 
When Ashong returned to the United States to finish high school, he realized that he would not fit in because he had a different background than the close­ly-knit group of students at his high school. 
As he perused college opportunities Ashong decided to apply to Harvard. 
"I applied to prove to everyone. I couldn't understand why anyone would look at me and decide I was less quali­fied. Brown was my safety school," Ashong said. 
Ashong again faced the challenge of fitting in when no one in his high school thought he could get in to schools such as Harvard and Brown. 
·•1 put on the face of confidence to the world." As hong said. "I was completely thrown in a loop because the people in my high school didn't think I was smart enough to get into Harvard. The fact that anyone in my high school told me I wasn't smart enough was mind bog­gling." 
In December of his senior year, Ashong received an early action letter from Harvard welcoming him to the campus. 
It was at this time that he really wasn't sure if he would make it to being a student at Harvard. 
"I went to freshman weekend to see what it was all about," he said. 
The fall of 1993 was a trying time for him, once again struggling to fit into a new society and to "be cool." The reac­tions from students were baffling to him. 
Because he was too short for basket­ball and too skinny for football, other students reasoned he must be on cam­pus because of affirmative action. 
"I remember feeling so bad because I thought I'd proven myself and that I deserved to be there," Ashong said. 
Ashong did prove himself by receiving the Harvard Foundation Award for out­standing contributions to intercultural and race relations and the Harvard Faculty of Arts and Sciences, Award for Outstanding undergraduate work, the highest award for undergraduaie the­sis. 
"I'm not going to worry about what people think of me, I'm going to do what I think is right," Ashong said. "At every juncture of me growing up, had I done what society had expected of me I would not have gone very far. It is not just about how you walk, talk. and dress." 

Encore Video Presentation 
''It Takes a Village to Plant the Future,, 
The Relationship Between Institutions of Higher Learning and Their Surrounding Communities 


Dr. Corne/ West 

Professor ofAfro-American History and Philosophy ofReligion Ht1rvard University 
Thursday February 8 

7:00 p.m. Room 129 DeBartolo Hall 
Duration: I hr 45 minute.,; (Lecture and Q&A only) For information. contact Chandra Johnson, Assistant lo the President. £.'Ct. 3748, or Johnson. /Ol@nd.ed11 Sponsored by the University Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Holi<Jay Celebration Committee 

page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 8, 2001 


Success Conference opens campus to 8th grade leaders 

By lAUREN BECK 
News Writer 
In an effort to strengthen ties between the Notre Dame and South Bend community, student government hosted 170 local eighth graders on Wednesday. 
Students from five area schools participat­ed in Notre Dame's First Annual Keys to Success Conference, a workshop designed to offer younger students an opportunity to interact with college students. 
"Students here expressed an interest in reaching out to the community and making younger students feel more a part of Notre Dame," said student body vice president Brooke Norton. "Our goal is to welcome them into our community and to share our knowledge with them but also to learn from them." 
The program focused on developing acade­mic and leadership skills by allowing eighth graders to vocalize their opinions and to reflect on the college students' experiences. 
The day began with small groups of eighth graders discussing academic success, lead­ership, communication and peer pressure. 
Notre Dame students learned as much from the eighth graders as the eighth graders learned from the Notre Dame stu­dents, according to Group Leader Carolina Reams. 
"I found it interesting to hear the kids' perspectives," she said. "I feel nervous for them because high school and the issues it presents can be tough to deal with -they seemed very intelligent and knew what they wanted to do with their lives." 
Following a panel of college and local high 

Debate 
continued from page 1 
speak about diversity issues. 
Rompf asked if the so-called "hip-hop conference" was potentially offensive to African-American students and if University administra­tors would allow controver­sial rap figures to speak or perform on campus. 
Norton said the idea springs from an idea begun at Harvard University, but she ran out of time before clearly addressing the potential con­troversy. 
Later, Norton and Moscona responded to concerns that they were neglecting their current responsibilities while running the presidential cam­paign. Norton is student body vice president, and Moscona is sophomore class president. 
"It's been very tiring, but 
we're not neglecting any of 
our duties," Moscona said. 
The Gottlieb-Fetterman and 
Zeidler-Henisey tickets also 
faced scrutiny. 
Gottlieb and Fetterman, 
both sophomores, dodged 
allegations that their plat­
form revolves around 
women's issues, calling the 
attention given to their gen­
der "misplaced focus." 
"Our ideas aren't benefiting 
one gender over the other." 
Fetterman said. 
Zeidler and Henisey were 
questioned about the feasibil­
ity of their proposed addition 
of a bowling alley to the 
Alumni-Senior Club. 
Henisey said talks with 
Notre Dame administrators 
have yielded positive feed­
back about the idea. 
"I think everyone would 
agree there's a need for more 
social space," Henisey said. 
"Revamping Senior Bar 
brings one component of off­
campus life to campus." 
The Judicial Council spon­
sored the Wednesday debate. 
If Monday's primary election 
results in the need for a run-school students, the eighth graders wrote letters summarizing the program's values and how they planned to apply them later in life. 

The letters were collected and will be returned to eighth graders at the end of the school year. 
"The workshop taught me ways to avoid drugs and alcohol. We discussed choosing positive role models and planning for college and careers," said Zach Marks, an eighth grader at Clay Middle School. "These are not big issues for me now. but they will be in the future." 
Sophomore Son Nguyen who coordinated Keys to Success hopes the lessons the stu­dents learned Wednesday will not be quickly forgotten. 
He plans to implement more interaction between Notre Dame and the middle school­ers in the future to reinforce the values of the conference. 
"It's hard to reach kids in just one day," Nguyen said. "We're trying to institute an after-school program in which we visit with the students or tutor them." 
Lanina Cobb-Thompson, a counselor at Dickinson Middle School, said the workshop and further interaction will benefit the stu­dents greatly. 
"I believe the students will return to the classroom with knowledge of how to interact with people with whom they're not familiar and discuss your differences," she said. 
Most participants from Notre Dame and the middle schools found the Keys to Success Program worthwhile. 
"I learned to set my goals high," Edison student James Douglas said. "And to never stop trying to achieve them." 

off election, a debate between the two leading tickets is scheduled for Tuesday at 
7: 30 p. m. · in the Library Auditorium. The run-off elec­tion would follow on Thursday. 



~-----------, 
. 49¢co1or 

: Copies:1 
I single-sided on 8.5" x 11" 28 lb. paper I 
I You'll be amazed by the quality. I 

:(C)py SHOP: 
1 1
LaFortune Student Center 

I On the Campus of rhe University of Notre Dame I 
: Call 631-COPY : 
I FREE Pick-Up & Delivery 1 
I See store for details. I I Coupon required. Hurry -expires 2/14/01. I 
___________ J
\,Not valid with any other offer or discount.,,,,, 

February 9 -15 
A week dedicated to serving the South Bend community 
/ /SCHEDULE OF EVENTS 
2/9 --Logan Center Dance 2/10-El Buen Vecino Clean-up 2/11-St. Margaret's Walk 2/12-Logan Center Choir 2/13-Nursing Home arts and crafts and There Are Children Here 2/14-La Casa de Amistad food pantry and Logan Center swim 2/15-Nursing Home Carnival 
Sign-ups 2/8 and 2/12 in the Dining Halls 
ALL TRANSPORTATION IS PROVIDED! Sponsored by the Notre Dame Circle K club 

I 

---~----------------------------------------------------­








ATION 
Thursday, February 8, 2001 

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES 
page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Aristide set for i_nauguration: 
Stringing plastic Haitian flags above the s~hacks for the inauguration on Wednesday, Feb. 7, Jean-Jaques Nardy says he believes Aristide will fulfill the promise to better peo­ple's lives. "Everybody here is for Aristide," said Nardy of this shantytown, dubbed Village of Peace because criminals are driven out. "He didn't have enough time in office before to do anything. This time will be different." 

Risk of disease minimal: Canadian authorities said chances of a disease outbreak were minimal after a Congolese woman arrived in Canada and fell ill with symptoms seen in hemorrhagic viruses, including Ebola. The 32-year-old woman, who has not been identified, was admitted to a Hamilton hospi­tal on Sunday. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Mayor arrested for assault: Miami Mayor Joe Carollo was arrested Wednesday and accused of hitting his wife in the head with a teapot. Maria Ledon Carollo suffered a golf ball-size lump and bruise on the side of her head, according to police. Carollo was charged with battery. 
Crash caused by misread signal: 
The engineer of an Amtrak train that over­took and ran into a freight train on the same track apparently misread a signal that warned of an obstacle ahead, a safety official said. That was just one of several factors that appeared to have contributed to the collision Monday that injured 61 people, said Russ Quimby of the National Transportation Safety Board. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Miss USA to be crowned in mall: 
When Miss USA 2001 is cro\\-ned next month, she will hold court over her coronation ball in an unlikely venue: A shopping mall. Miss USA officials announced Tuesday that they have chosen Hobart's Southlake Mall to host the March 2 post-pageant bash, just hours after stores have closed for the day. 
Two dead in fire: A woman and her 3­year-old daughter were missing and pre­sumed dead Tuesday after a fire destroyed a Noble County house that officials said was a hangout for a motorcycle gang. 
Market Watch 217 
Dow 

10,946.72 -10.70 
]ONES 
t 
Composite
Same: Volume:
208 
NIA 
Nasdaq: 2607.82 -56.67 
S&P 500: 1340.76 TOP5VOLUMELEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY  %CHANGE  $GAIN  PRICE  
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  -13.12  -4.69  31.06  
MICROSOFT CORP (MSFTI  +3.40  +2.12  64.69  
NASDAQ 100 SHAR (QQQ)  -1.62  .J.OQ  60.60  
INTEL CORI' (INTC)  -1.40  -0.49  34.94  
SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW)  -4.50  -1.25  26,S(;  


Associated Press 
KINSHASA 
In a sprawling mansion protected by North Korean tanks and heavily armed Zimbabwean soldiers, with a waiting room full of sleepy guards, President Joseph Kabila said Wednesday he was ready for peace. 
The new leader has promised to work closely with the United Nations to implement an often-violated 1999 cease¥fire agreement. However, he 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The White House is, at once, the symbol of an open, unafraid nation and a wary fortress separated by iron bars and concrete slabs from the bustle of everyday America. 
When he was outside campaigning to get in, President Bush spoke of how dispiriting it was that episodes of violence should have restricted people's access to the people's house. He promised to look into it if elected. 
He was inside Wednesday when a gunman reminded everyone why concrete bar­riers with tired plants on top were set up in the first place. 

Pennsylvania Avenue in front of the White House has been closed to traffic since the aftermath of the 1995 bombing of the feder­al building in Oklahoma City. 
That was the last straw for security officials who had dealt with a variety of lesser dangers outside the Executive Mansion. 
The planters, along with panels that swing up from the pavement, seal off what had been a six-lane thor­oughfare. Guardhouses monitor pedestrian traffic, which is still allowed. 
The wounding of a gun­man Wednesday by the Secret Service happened out back, on a sidewalk bordering the great fenced expanse of the South Lawn. 
The incident could play a role in what happens, if anything, with security around the White House. 
Bush, pushed by his Republican Party, which put a call for reopening Pennsylvania Avenue in its platform. said during his presidential campaign he would discuss it with the Secret Service. 
The service. sworn to pro­tect the president, likes con­crete. 
..The Secret Service wants zero risk in an open soci­ety," said Eleanor Holmes Norton, the District of Columbia's congressional delegate. "They can't get it. And if they do get it, this is no longer an open society." 
A senior Bush aide, speaking on condition of anonymity. said advisers who reviewed the Secret Service's case were inclined even before Wednesday to recommend that the presi­dent keep the street closed to cars and trucks. 
The latest episode "ele­vates the concern that always exists in a free cul­ture, free society that some­one will go in the wrong direction," said Attorney General John Ashcroft Wednesday night. 
A few hours after crouch­ing behind his car around the corner from the gun­man, Jim McDaniel, the National Park Service's liai­son to the White House. reflected on how the place has become a nexus for the nation's best and worst dreams. 
ZIMBABWE 

Kabila promises peace to nation 
said Congo would not be "held hostage" by the deal. 
In tone, he was smoother and more diplomatic than his father, slain President Laurent Kabila, but his argu­ments were largely the same. The for­mer president regularly pledged to bring peace to Congo -as long as his enemies withdrew first. 
Already head of the army, Joseph Kabila was quickly chosen as president after his father was gunned down Jan. 16 by one of his bodyguards. The rea­son for the killing has not been explained. 
Little is known about the new leader -but many here and abroad have expressed hope that the sudden power shift represents a new opportunity for peace in the Central African nation. 
Kabila said in Wednesday's inter­view that he wanted U.N. peacekeep­ers to deploy in Congo soon, but insist­ed there could be no peace without the withdrawal of "occupying" forces from African countries. 


page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 8, 2001 
ND Faculty earn noteworthy awards, scholarships 
Special to The Observer 
. Fabian Udoh, assistant profes­sor in the Program of Liberal Studies, has received a National Endowment for the Humanities fellowship from the W.F. 
Albright  Institute  of  
Archaeological Research  in  
Jerusalem.  

Udoh will receive a $30,000 award for a project entitled, "To Caesar What is Caesar's: Tribute and Taxes in Early Roman Palestine," a comprehensive and detailed study of taxation in Jewish Palestine from 63 B.C. to 70C.E. 
A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1998, Udoh holds a philosophy degree from the Institut de Philosophie in Kinshasa, Zaire, and a theology degree from Pontificia Universitas Gregoriana in Rome. He earned his master of philoso­phy degree in New Testament and Jewish history in 1989 from Oxford University and earned his doctorate in 1996 from Duke University. 
. Michael Pressley, professor of psychology and the Notre Dame Chair in Catholic Education, has received the 2000 Oscar Causey Award from the National Reading Conference. The Causey Award is the highest honor pre­sented to reading researchers in the United States. 
An internationally recognized expert on educational and devel­opmental psychologies, Pressley is particularly interested in issues pertaining to learning and instruction. His recent research includes studies of the charac­teristics of effective reading instruction and of how high school and college students con­front and accomplish the acade­mic demands placed on them. 

In addition to this teaching and research in the Department of Psychology, Pressley is direc­tor of the Master of Arts in Teaching Program of Notre Dame's Institute for Educational Initiatives and editor of the Journal of Educational Psychology. He is the author of "Reading Instruction that Works: The Case for Balanced Teaching" and the coauthor of "The Good First Grade." 
Pressly joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1997 after previously teaching at the University of Western Ontario, the University of Maryland and the State University of New York at Albany. He earned his bache­lor's degree from Northwestern University and his doctorate from the University of Minnesota. 
. The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences has selected Donald Crafton, chair and professor of film, television and theatre at Notre Dame, as one of its two inaugural Academy Film Scholars. 
Crafton and Tino Balio from the University of Wisconsin each will receive a $25,000 grant from the academy based upon their proposals for new scholarly works. Only estab­lished scholars, writers, histori­ans and researchers with a sig-

Does your business need an 

-'/)fl!; 

in today's e-marketplace? 
Put your business on the web quick and easy with 
Steamtunnels.net ! 
Get noticed by millions of potential customers with web aduertising on Ste amt u n n e Is.net, today's most successful online college magazine. 
nificant record of achievement cartoon shorts from about 1928-productions," he said. The study were considered for the grants. 39 in order to "reveal the impor­is titled "Shadow of a Mouse: Crafton 's grant will support his tant social relevance underlying Animation and American Culture 
work on an analysis of animated these superficially insignificant in the 1930s." 


SUMMER INTERNSHIP OPPORTUNITI.ES WITH... 
ACCION 
A MICROLENDING ORGANIZATION ASSISTING SMALL BUSINESS OWNERS WITH POOR CREDIT HISTORY TO OBTAIN LOANS TO IMPROVE AND BUILD THEIR BUSINESSES. 
10-12 WEEK INTERNSHIPS AVAILABLE IN: ALBUQUERQUE, CHICAGO, EL PASO, NYC, SAN ANTONIO, SAN DIEGO 
BENEFITS: 
09

COMPE_T...,I-Tl'VE COMPENSATION 3 COLLEGE CREDITS HOUSING PROVIDED BUSINESS EXPERIENCE 
" s1:.ss'1.o"~ 
~o9..lJ\~"t'\.O 
1.t' THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 8 



UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
SOCIAL
6PM, ROOM 121 MCOB 
CONCERNS 

APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE AT THE CSC & MCOB UNDERGRAD OFFICE-DUE FEB. 21ST 
Thursday, February 8, 200l page 7 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
STUDENT SENATE 
Return of lost study day hopeless, calendar blamed 
further consideration to a graduate subcommittee of the
By FINN PRESSLY 
Student Senate proposal to add Academic Council, efforts to 
Senior Staff Writer 
the customary fourth study day add an additional study day to to the Fall 2001 exam sched­this fall's calendar would have 
Citing time constraints and ule. to be abandoned. lack of flexibility in the acade­O'Neill senator Bill Ferreira "It's not Notre Dame's fault. mic council, the Academic reported to the senate that It's just the way the calendar Council has refused to give upon meeting with the under-falls," he said. "While they did 
Experience wolng 
, · · iOr Pagemaker? 


Work for The Observer Ad Design Department 
If you are a FRESHMAN OR SOPHOMORE with Mac knowl­edge, design skills, and want to work for a few hours a week, call Chris Avila at 634-0886 or stop by The Observer office in the basement of the South Dining Hall. You will not find a better job on campus! Great Pay!! Very Flexible!!! 

? 
I 

? 
I
' 

Enter Notre Dame's Inaugural Business Plan Competition 
• 
HURRYthe registration deadline is 2/16/01 and the business plan submission deadline is 3/19/01. 

• 
Compete to win agrand prize of cash and in-kind services totaling up to $20,000. 

• 
All full-time ND students and ND alumni are eligible to participate. 

• 
Each registered participant will receive aFREE copy of Business Plan Pro software. 


For more information visit the Gigot Center for Entrepreneurial Studies in Room 234 Mendoza College of Business, e-mail the Gigot Center at entrep.entrep.1@nd.edu, or visit our Web site at www.nd.edu~entrep. 
not feel we had bad ideas ... they felt we didn't have enough time to change the final exam schedule." 
Starting the year a week ear­lier would mean bringing resi­dent assistants, professor. and other campus personnel back to campus abnormally early. he said. 
Adding extra days at the end of break, meanwhile, would flirt dangerously close to the Christmas travel season. resulting in possible headaches for students 
"There was mixed reviews on the Domer Fest," she said. "A lot of students think it was a good idea, and a lot offered suggestions of how to improve it." 
. Pasquerilla West senator Audra Hagan reminded sena­tors of official protocol regard­ing the election of senators who plan on going abroad. Senator·s who plan on going abroad must run individually ­that is, students going abroad for different semesters may 
not run as 

and profes­sors flying home. The Senate approved a  "They felt we didn't have enough time to change the final exam schedule ...  one ticket. "If you know you're going abroad, that's fine,  
letter to the Academic  Bill Ferreira  but then your dorm will just  
Council stress•  O'Neill senator  have to have  
ing the need  a  new  elec­ 
for consisten­ tion  when  
cy in the num­ you  leave  

ber of study days from year to [campus]." she said. 
year. . Alumni senator Jeff Stuffings announced his resig­nation from the senate, due to
In other Senate News: 
a time conflict. 

. Lewis senator Luciana Reali 
"Going into this, I heardpresented information gath­

some good things and bad

ered by the Gender Relations 
things about the Senate," he

regarding Freshman 
said, "and leaving, I only haveOrientation activities. She said good things to say." 

future input might come in the Stuffings will be replaced by
form of small, student•led 
sophomore Matt LaFratta. 

groups, rather than informa­
Wednesday's meeting was

tion reported directly from the also the last for Fisher senatorstudents to the administration. 
Dan Barrabas.

Reali highlighted student 
Elections for a new Fisher

reaction to Domer Fest, the 
Hall senator will be held in the 

successor to the now defunct 
near future.
Graffiti Dance. 


TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
Located Just East of the Notre Dame soccer field! 

NOW LEASING 2-BEDROOMS AND TOWNHOMES FOR FALL 2001 
GREAT FOR ROOMMATESI AS LOW AS $270 PER PERSONI · 
HURRY SPACES ARE FILLING FAST! 
**REMODELED UNITS AVAILABLE** DON'T WAIT! PICK UP YOUR APPLICATION PACKET TODAY! 
Call or stop by the leasing office today for details! P: 272-8124 
Thursday, February 8, 200 I 

page 8 The Observer. PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Friday, Feb. 9 at 
3:30 p.m., 
C.K.. Williams 
. ' 

will discuss his Pulitzer Prize Winning poetry book, Repair. 
Wednesday, Feb. 14 at 3:00 p.m., ~R;ffl:fiSella will discus~ his book, ·Shoeless Joe. 


AM MES 
phone: 631-6316 • www.ndbookstore.com 
• 
Thursday, February 8, 2001 

The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
'Blessing Unto Others' hosts speakers from orphanage 
By EMILY ORR 
News Writer 

Kaleen Sanner and Mark Farrell spoke about their experiences in the Hogar San Jose in Talagante, Chile on the third night of the "Blessing Unto Others" program. Sanner, a senior at Notre Dame, and Farrell, a sec­
recounted their time at the orphan­age with a mixture of emotions. 
Sanner and Farrell began their presen­
tation with a short video clip and passed out prayer cards. They asked the community to pray for the children in the orphanage. 
"There are many things you can do, even here on campus," said Farrell. "Just say a prayer for this child." 
Farrell and Sanner both stressed the culture of violence that pervaded the early lives of the orphans. 
Farrell recounted a story in which three brothers were brought to the orphanage after witnessing their mother mur­der their father. 
Farrell emphasized that 
ond year law ..Working in Chile was · 
student, 
the most difficult month 
ofmy life.,, 
Mark Farrell Notre Dame law student 

"despite the challenges, these kids live such a blessed life." S a n n e r added, "despite their violent pasts · and even their current lives in the orphanages, 
these are genuinely happy children." 
Farrell and Sanner also each spoke about many of their per­sonal experiences in the Hogar. 
"Working in Chile was the most difficult month of my 
NTERNATIONAL WORKING OPPORTUNITY 


RECRUITING DATES: February 14 & 15, 2001 at Career and Placement Services. Japanese Language skills NOT required. Open to all majors. SIGN UPS NOW OPEN 
life," said Farrell. "Those kids are just starved for attention." 
He went on to describe the state of the orphanage, telling of rampant cases of head lice, fleas in the beds and no running water. He also spoke of the ''Domingo Primero," or First Sunday, when rel­atives come to visit . 
Farrell told a story of how a mother of one of the children lived in the area, yet never once stopped in to see her child. 
However, he went on to say that, "despite the emotional garbage, they are the happiest kids. You will feel blessed by your experience with them." 
The lack of private and personal space and the few items of person­al property surprised Sanner. 
Upon meeting these disad­vantaged children she "immediately felt enveloped by love." 
She continued the senti­ment by commenting that the 

MOLLY WARD/The Observer Notre Dame students Mark Farrell and Kaleen Sanner discussed Hogar San Jose, an orphanage, in Talagante, Chile during the third night of the "Blessing Unto Others" series. 
kids she lived and worked with "live every moment." "They have nothing and give everything," she said. 
Farrell emphasized that although you don't have to go to Chile to do good work, "it's 
Warning Signs of Heart Attack 
• 
Uncomfortable pressure, fullness, squeezing or pain in the center of the chest lasting more than a few minutes. 

• 
Pain may spread to the shoulders, neck or arms. 

• 
Chest discomfort with light headedness, fainting, sweating, nausea or shortness of breath may also occur. 


Bea 

Heartsaver! 
--Fighting Heart Disease and Stroke 

1 Know The Warning Signs -2 Call 911 
3 Give CPR 
When heart attack occurs, every minute counts. 
Don't wait. Get help fast. 
our call to be blessings unto others." 
"We can do this in an action as simple as a smile, or open­ing a door for someone ... 
that's all  we  ask," Farrell  
added.  
~ 

. Amencan Heart ­Association.~ 



University of Notre Dame Students 
Interested in summer internships in 
Finance & Accounting 
Interested candidates should submit their resume through Go Irish Resume submission deadline is Friday, February 16, 2001 
Merrill Lynch is an equal opportunity employer 
ml.com/careers 

be bullish ~MerrillLynch 
«>2001 Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. 
....,­
Thursday, February 8, 2001 

page 10 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
• 

~ as a student body, are so blessed here at the University of Notre Dame. Now, through this new Student Union program we too have a chance to take what we have been given and make of our­selves a blessing unto others . 
The Blessing Unto Others campaign was established with the goal of allowing the entire student body to come together each year and 
make a difference in ·the livej •••• ofour fellow human beings . •• 
Although we already contribute in many other ways through various clubs, organizations and events, this program offers us as students the unique opportu­11ity to do so [!S a COfllmunit~ . 
. at weekendMasses . 
The target for this year's inaugural campaign is a pair of Holy Cross orphanages in C_hile -­
• 
the Hagar Santa. Cruz and the 
Hagar San Jose. \ 
• 

Collectively, these two homes form. the family !01 over 100 children who· have either)ost their own families or suffered from abuse, neglect, or aban­
donment. 

A portion of the funds raised will also go to help establish the Greatness Grant program, an endow-· ment which will be used to provide grants for students seeking to do volunteer service work . 
• 


• 
C1 pleasµupport the B!fssinJ:. Unto Otl1ei;s,campaign
• a..JUnday, Pe/Jruar.v q -.)unrlav,, .rebruary 11 
http:/fvvww.nd.eduT-ba{hers 
-· 

....................., .......·-.. 
Thursday, February 8, 200I The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 11 

Februa,y 2 Februa,y9 Februa,y 16 Februa,y 23 March 2 March 23 

Khalll Matta (Director, MIS Program, University of Notre Dame) 
"Overview of the Lecture Serles" 
AHen Hammond (CIO and Senior Scientist, World Resources Institute) 
"Impact of Globallzatlon" 

Joe McCarthy (Researcher, Accenture -Ctr. for Strategic Technology) "Awareness and Collaboratton In the WOl1(place of the Future# 
Mike Mazarr (President, Henry L. Stimson Center) 
"Soclology and Psychology of People In the Electronic Workplace" 
Greg Hedges (Partner, eBusiness Risk Consulting, Arthur Andersen) 
"Privacy Concerns In the Electronic Age" 
Bob Reilly (President, OHR International) 
"New Aoe Leadership Sldlls" 

Gary Reiner (Senior VP and CIO, General Electric) "Technology and E-commerce Organizations: Future Directions" 
Bob Buckman (Ret. Board Chairman and President, Buckman Labs) "Knowledge Management In the New MIiiennium" 
Dan Hesse (Chairman, President, CEO, Terabeam Networks) "Wireless and Optical Technok>gles and their Implications" 

All Lectures held from l 0:35am-l 2:05pm Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business 
All Notre Dome faculty, staff and students are we/come to attend 

NJD
'1ft 

Unlversllyof Notre Dame 
Mendoza College ofBusiness 
UCLA feminist scholar to visit Saint Mary's 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY Associate News Editor 
Renowned feminist scholar and philosopher of science Sandra Harding will be wel­comed by the Saint Mary's community as its visiting scholar in residence beginning today. 
Sponsored by the women's studies, philosophy. chemistry. physics and biology depart­ments as well as the Center for Academic Innovation,· students and faculty from all disciplines have been looking forward to Harding's visit, said Phyllis Kaminski, associate professor of religious studies and coordi­nator of the Women's Studies department. 
"One of the really exciting things about Sandra Harding's visit is to see the broad range of faculty and students who have expressed interest in her visit," said Kaminski. 
Currently, Harding is a pro­fessor of education and women's studies in the Graduate School of Education and Information Studies at UCLA. She is also a faculty affiliate of the UClA Center for the Study of Women. 
Besides visiting women's studies, philosophy and biolo­gy classes to interact with stu­dents, Harding will give a lec­ture tonight entitled "How Women in Science Benefit Science" at 7:30 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge. 
She will also speak at a women's studies colloquium entitled "Does Science foster Democracy? Gender and Global Issues" at noon on Friday in Haggar Parlor. In addition, Harding will meet with chemistry majors on Friday. 
Much of Harding's work has examined how science benefits from women in the field and how it helps to advance the cause of women. Kaminski said Harding's visit will help further the cooperation between various disciplines at Saint Mary's. 
"Her [Harding's} visit is part of an effort to broaden the understanding of women's j
.,
studies among the College 
i 
community, ·especially to strengthen the links between science and women's studies," said Kaminski. "We're very excited to have someone of her stature here." 
Among Harding's books are "Decentering the Center: Philosophy for a Multicultural. Postcolonial and Feminist World", "Is Science Muiticultural? Post-colo­nialisms, Feminisms and Epistemologies" and "The 'Racial' Economy of Science: Toward a Democratic Future (Race, Gender, and Science)." 


POINT 
O
THE 

page 12 BSERVER Thursday, February 8, 200 l 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Tim Lane 
NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Maningly VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey 
SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smith ScrNE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Molly McVoy 
PHOTO EDITOR: Elizabeth Lang 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Bob Woods 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING.................,.,.................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE...................... ..................631-5313 NEWS.......................................................... 631-5323 
observer .obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer .viewpoim. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports.l@nd.edu SCENE........................................................,631-4540 observer .scene. I@nd.edu SAINT MA!tv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................63 l •8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://obrerver.nd.edu for daily updates of campus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for
weather for up-to-the 
weekly srudem reviews
minute forecasts 
online features for spe­
advertise for policies 
cial campus coverage
and rates of print ads 
about The Observer
archives to search for 
co meet the editors and
articles published after 
staff
August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, induding advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent chc opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of che authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and musr include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should bt direct­ed to Editor in Chief Mike Connolly. 

Observer endorses Becker/McCord_ 
The most effective student body president and vice president already built relationships with administrators and understand should attack both broad issues of student life and address the how to get things done. And their ideas are truly innovative. everyday concerns of students on campus. The ticket of Ryan Becker/McCord hit both sides of the coin on the alcohol issue, Becker and Nikki McCord combines these two aspects most offering more programming options for non-drinkers while effectively and should be elected as the 2001-2002 student revamping the SafeRide program. The plan for SafeRide is so body president and vice president. practical and easy to implement it's amazing that it has never 
The bottom line is that Becker /McCord make sense. Through been tried before. Planning to drive to social hotspots like broad but ambitious plans, Becker /McCord are ready to tackle Turtle Creek, Lafayette and other off-campus party scenes. the the issues that will affect the student body proposed SafeRide program won't just sit directly. More importantly, the ticket under­around and wait for calls -it will go to the stands the role. capabilities and limitations of OJhe intoxicated students and give them a ride
userver

student government. You won't find unrealistic home. This simple yet effective plan will finally plans like Grab 'n' Go in Debartolo or an all­make SafeRide an effective, viable option for campus formal on this platform -instead, students.
Editorial

you'll find plans that work. Becker/McCord also bring a new perspective 
Becker/ McCord make sense throughout to diversity at Notre Dame. Rather than focus­their student government careers. Becker is the senator who ing on more multicultural programs at Notre Dame, brought a mailbox to LaFortune and cereal to Grab 'n' Go. Becker/McCord want to find out why majority student atten­Despite being student government "insiders." they have fresh dance at the current programs is so low and work to increase ideas and an enthusiasm that moves beyond the tired and attendance at these events. Becker/McCord aren't naive redundant platform ideas of competing "insider" tickets. enough to think they can solve the problem overnight -but 
Proposing "The Shirt" for basketball, a shuttle to Movies 14 they show the courage to find new solutions to old problems. and lowering bookstore prices, Becker /McCord are in tune The only weakness of the Becker/McCord ticket could be with the little differences that student government can make their ambition. Their 22-page platform addresses programs to change student life. And they're not afraid to do it. "No one ranging from an intramural, on-campus baseball field to has ever tried," Becker said. "Everyone has complained about encouraging more free speech on campus. The greatest chal­it. everyone has moaned about it but no one has ever tried any­lenge they will face in their administration is prioritizing this thing." daunting platform. 
But the little differences are just the springboard for the But with their experience, enthusiasm -and new practical Becker/McCord campaign -they're ready to attack the bigger solutions to everyday problems, Becker/McCord are clearly the issues as well. As experienced student senators, they have choice for Notre Dame on Monday. 
You too can be a rock star 
We all have different academic inter­the last word of any phrase the rapper tamale! Qualifications: Must be able to ests. but whether we study Arabic or may speak. Should be able to lift heavy exploit cultural heritage for a buck and Anthropology. English or Engineering. objects, such as the rapper's belongings reduce the entire Spanish language to follow our intellectual calling or prosti­and ego. Must be generally able to 'rep­the word coraz6n. Ambiguous sexual ori­tute ourselves to the College of Business resent.' Inferiority complex a plus. entation a plus; tight bon hon a must. (you know who you are), when it comes Women are encouraged to apply; every Career track #4: Rock 
right down to it, we posse needs a ho or two. 
Position: Rock star. Looking for young all want _to be rock Career track #2: Pop musicians for a band that will be stars. Well. maybe Amy Schill Position: Singer/dancer for new idolized for its artistic integrity and not rock stars, but boy band. Think the pop world is political relevance, then eventually music stars. saturated with effeminate per­sell out and produce countless 
We want to per­Dazed and formers? So do we, but luckily disappointing albums. Must be form at the Super Amused adolescent girls aren't very able to play instrument and/or Bowl. trash hotel bright. sing while high on four out of 
Qualifications: Must be will­the top five leading recreational 
rooms. fade into obscurity and die alone. Why? Because ing to stand in the back­drugs. Pretension helpful. everyone likes music and music stars ground while one or two Leather jackets, sunglasses 
and complete separation from 

feed our hunger for melody and rhythm, other members do the actual actually get paid for doing it and get a lit­singing. Must have enough reality provided. tle sumpin' sumpin' on the side, you­self-esteem to appear to be And it goes on from there. 
Other jobs include_d the ritalin­know-what-l'm-sayin'? Well, now all our an actual musician when you deprived punk drummer. the dreams can come true. I've come across know you are little more than shameless Eddie Vedder imita­

some want ads for the music industry, a childhood Star Search covering almost all genres. Keep reading reject. Talent optional. Those tor and Lionel Ritchie. So if 
who can sing in more than one you're ready to rock, if you think to find the perfect job for your musical key need not apply. you have what it takes to either interest. 
Position: Teenage female pop burnout by 20 or perform until noCareer track #1: Rap one cares, e-mail your resume toPosition: Auxiliary rapper for rriajor star soon2B@hasbeen.com. As for me, Irap star. Behind every Snoop Dogg or Qualifications: Good enough think I'll just become a supermodel.
Jay Z, there are several guys who went looks to distract fans from your to high school with him and now live in inability to perform live. No shame nec­
Amy Schill is a sophomore Arts and

his guest house. Now you can be one of essary. Training and breast implants 
provided. Letters major. Her column appears every 
those guys, Shorty. Qualifications: Must be able to simulta­Career track #3: Latin other Thursday. neously wave hand in the air and shout Position: Latino 'supastar.' The Latin The views expressed in this column are 
heat may have been cooling off, but a those ofthe author and not necessarily 
"wah, wah. yeeah." May also on occasion need to repeat fresh face like you could be the next hot those ofThe Observer. 
SCOTT ADAMS 

QUOTE OF THE DAY
DILBERT 
OUR CEO SAYS WE ARE POISED FOR HUGE GROWTH IN EARNINGS. 

IN AN UNRELATED MOVE, HE ANNOUNCED THAT HE WILL LEAVE 

"/ have a sweet tooth for song and music. 
THE COMPANY BEFORE 
This is my Polish sin . ., 

ANY OF HIS STOCK OPTIONS VEST. 
Pope John Paul II 
.........:..~~...1,----"' 


O
THE
Thursday, February 8, 200 I 
BSERVER 
page 13 

Instant aggravation over messenging 
BOSTON, Mass. 

We need to have a serious discussion about 
Instant Messenger. The other day somebody named 
Cooliodog881 started talking to me while I was 
online. This was a problem because, first, as a gen­
eral rule I don't talk to people who refer to them­
selves as "dog;" and second, 
because he was using phrases Grant Myers 
like "brb," "lol," "ttyl" and "jk." 
In my opinion, if one-syllable 
words are too complicated for The Daily Free 
you to type, then you need to 
Press 

stop IMing and concentrate on more important skills -like shoe tying and swallowing. And if you are one of the few people who IMs more than you talk to people, then you need to stop and examine your life, and question whether or not you have a problem (hint: if you IM your roommate across the room, then you need to buy a Rubik's cube and lock yourself in a bathroom stall). 
People who use IM are separated into three pri­mary groups: 
1) People with too many friends 
2) People with no friends 
3) Big fat hairy guys over 50 who claim to be cute little girls named Suzy. 
Actually, the people with too many friends don't have nearly as many friends as they think. As a mat­ter of fact, they don't have any friends. There's a simple equation that demonstrates this principle: Number of people in your buddy list equals the num­ber of friends you don't have. The thing is, they don't realize that when they IM somebody and that person writes back and says, 'Tm sorry, I c&n't talk now, the cat is on fire," what that person is really trying to say is "Leave me alone, because I hate you." However, nobody ever catches on to those sub­tle hints (trust me, this one guy reported me to the ASPCA because my cat was so prone to spontaneous combustion when he IM'd me). 
Of course, people with no friends are even worse, because they are even more desperate to talk to somebody. I'm sure this has happened to you: you're online watching a hilarious video of a wombat maul­ing a tourist, when all of a sudden you get an IM from somebody saying, "I read your profile and I also live in Boston." Of course, in reality this person lives nowhere near Boston, let alone North America (and in all honesty, you'd be lucky if the person isn't presently residing in an institution with the words "correctional facility" in the title). I got so sick of random people trying to talk to me that I changed my profile information to stuff I thought nobody would ever be interested in. 
For example: Name: maybe 
Age: donkey 
Location: shaft 
Interests: drinking ketchup, looking at a wall, 
alphabet 
Sadly. even more random people began !Ming me, 
which is really scary because I never want to meet 
someone who is interested in drinking ketchup (And 
if I really wanted to, I'd just go hang out at 
Emerson). 
However, if IM is a disease, then those little smiley 
faces made out of colons are horrible-monkey­
spread-ear-bleeding epidemics. Nobody really talks 
to me online; they just send me a stream of faces 
that are supposed to represent their response. 
Somebody had to come up with these things, which makes me think to myself, "I sure would like to meet that person; then shove his beloved colon key right up his cyber geek nose." But don't take my word for it -look at this conversation that I had with my idiot friend: 
ME: How are you? 
IDIOT FRIEND: : } 
ME: How's school? 
IDIOT:: ( 
ME: How's your love life? 
IDIOT:;) 
ME: Wow, you are an idiot. 
IDIOT:: P 
ME: I can't believe society has given you the tools 
of mass communication and all you can do is hit the 
colon key. 
IDIOT:: 0 
ME: People like you shouldn't be allowed to breed. 
I've been laboring intensively for months now try­ing to develop a little face that is giving the finger, but sadly my efforts to date have been in vain. My attempts at a little barfing face have also come up short. 
Then again, there are more important things to worry about when IMing. Has this happened to you: It's vacation and you are IMing with a buddy from school, and you say something like, "wow, that drunken orgy last semester sure was great, wasn't it?" Then it turns out that he was on a computer at his church and the priest was there and all of a sud­den he's going to hell, when in reality that jerk who started making the smiley faces ought to be going there. If that hasn't happened to you yet, then watch out. Also, watch out for people named "dog." 
This article first appeared in the Daily Free Press on Feb. 5, 2001 and is reprinted courtesy ofU-Wire. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Take a stand and sit in 
We are writing to inform all interested persons that there 
will be a silent sit-in in Le Mans Hall beginning at noon this 
Friday, Feb. 9, to protest the censorship of the Vagina 
Monologues on Saint Mary's campus. We believe our silence 
will be a testament to the way in which certain students at 
Saint Mary's were and are being silenced. 
We in no way are supporting or denouncing the Monologues, 
but instead are concerned only with the fact that a dramatic 
production has been censored. Opinions vary on the relevance 
of the production, however a unifying theme emerges -our 
freedom of speech is being threatened. By refusing to allow the 
"Vagina Monologues" on our campus this year. the 
Administration has censored a dramatic production. When one 
form of artistic expression is muted, the path for further cen­
sorship is made smooth. All interested students, faculty and 
staff are invited. 
Cara Frank 
Le Mans Hall 
Jenn Wagner 
Regina Hall Febiuary 7, 2001 

Academic freedom 
of students impaired 
My disappointment with the response of Provost Nathan 
Hatch to the Faculty Senate's questions about the academic 
freedom of students has a very simple basis. Both the "Mission 
Statement of the University of Notre Dame," and Article III, 
section 2 of the Academic Articles of this University (see 
"Faculty Handbook," 2000-01) guarantee the academic free­
dom of the University's students. 
Such guarantees appear nowhere in du Lac, and the 
University's current practices in hearing complaints that stu­, dent organizations have "contravened the moral teaching of the Catholic Church" afford no consideration to the principle 
that students come to Notre Dame to engage in Socratic ques­
tioning of the foundations of their religious belief. To suggest 
that such learning can go on only within the classroom is to 
suggest that such questioning is nothing but a sterile academic 
exercise. 

The Provost reminded the Faculty Senate that opinion 
research indicates Notre Dame students value their residence 
life experiences at Notre Dame more highly than they value 
their academic experience. Rectors remind faculty that 
Residence Halls provide a haven in the heartless world of aca­
demic challenges. Undergraduate education at Notre Dame 
takes place in a house divided against itself. That's enough 
disappointment for one night. 
Edward Manier 
philosophy professor February 7, 2001 

All the best to you, Conor 
Conor, since the day we, your fellow students, friends and participants of the Washington, D.C. Spring Semester Studies Program, met you we knew you were full of promise, compassion, knowledge and strength, someone that everyone in the program wanted to know and share time with. We quickly found out that you were as optimistic, idealistic and passionate as your hero and idol Robert Kennedy. In fact, it was apparent very early in our relationship that just like Bobby preached, you did not see things as they are and say "why?'' You dreamed things that never were and said "why not?" 
Who else would on the first day of class make such an impression on his peers that they would sincerely believe he could be president of the United States some day, as you professed was your aspiration? Who else has the ability to raise the level of discus­sion in and outside of the classroom in such a way that others felt inspired to literally take notes of what that person is saying? Who else has the ability to provoke feelings of pride and passion in his fellow students, just as you did when you played the part of a Civil War general attempting to rally his troops? 
The answer is simple: Only you, Conor. Only you could have had such a profound and deep impact on fellow students and friends. And because ofthis, just as we felt when you were first taken away from us, there is a deep sense ofvoid upon your departure. We are writing to tell you that we miss you. 
Your smile, your wit and your thoughts were precious gifts. Ifonly we could be play­ing a game of Hearts together this semester, too. How we would delight to see you liter­ally eat the scorecard of your opponent when you were defeated! If only we could hear you defend the right to life of the unborn like you did one day after class? What joy it would give us to see the passion in your eyes and to hear the distraught tone of your voice. If only we could share a drink with you at Nanny O'Briens or Murphy's, two of our favorite Irish pubs in Washington, D.C. How happy we would be to share another 
with you when we arrived back to the apartment. If only we had these things and more, we could tell you how your intellect, ambition and strong will affected us all. 
Your time on earth was too short, but just as the Biblical passage at your funeral said: The age that is honorable comes not with the passing of time, nor can it be mea­sured in terms of years. Instead, it is measured by one's understanding and faith. Thus, the value of your life was immeasurable and in a short time you reached the full­ness of a long career. • 
In the depth of your own despair, you were our rock in a sea full of crashing waves, as you were for so many others. In our teleconferences with you it was difficult for us to communicate to you just how much we were pulling for you and praying that your con­dition improved. However, our own efforts were futile. When you said you and God were going to beat your cancer, we believed you. And beat it you did. Never did your faith waver. Never did you forget who you were and where you came from. Never did you forget your friends from the Washington, D.C .program. For this, we thank you. 
God bless you, Conor. You will live in us always. Heaven certainly is a better place because you are there, as we are better people for knowing you. 
Kevin Dunn Members ofthe '00 Washington, D.C. Spring Program February 7, 2001 
M 
ce.ne E 
page 14 Thursday. February 8, 200 I 
Movies 2000: the 

With the Oscar nominations just around the corner, Scenes movie £ 
Scene Staff Report 
Julia Roberts wore a push-up bra, Adam Sandler's "Little Nicky" bombed, and Wolverine gave Cyclops the finger. So who wants to argue that it's been a bad year for movies? From the personal and reflec­tive "Almost Famous" to the mythic and imaginative "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon," 2000 brought audiences a spec­trum of cinematic delight. In the following feature. Movie Scene critics Matt Nania, Casey K. McCluskey, Matt Caccamo, Jude Seymour, Chris Sikorski, Liam Dacey, John Donnelly, Jeff Irish and Bill Fusz give their nominations for the year's best and bright­est. 
Best Picture 
Ah, the most sought-after trophy in all of Hollywood. Come Feb. 13, Oscar will have narrowed down the competition to a group of five lucky films. While heavyweights such as "Gladiator" and "Traffic'' are expected to receive nominations, the three remaining slots are up for grabs. Who deserves it most? According to Sikorski, Fusz and Nania, it's the martial arts epic "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon." With its incredible and joyous fight sequences, emotional storyline and vast scope; "Tiger" transcended its genre at every turn. The film's raw energy resulted in an emotional impact unlike any film offered all year. 
Standing in striking contrast is Cameron Crowe's autobiographical, rock 'n roll coming-of-age story "Almost Famous," a film more worthy of the crown, say critics McOuskey and Donnelly. An excellent film about, growing up in the world of '70s rock journalism, "Famous" was an absolute pleasure. It can be watched end­1 essly, which is perhaps a tribute to Crowe's interesting adolescentjourney. 
"Wonder Boys," the Michael Douglas­
starring comic drama about a one-hit 
wonder author struggling to complete his 
second novel, is Dacey's choice for Best 
Picture. Although it came out last winter, 
the scene critic still remembers laughing 
and feeling the effects of the film's oddly 
poignant proceedings. Along with a great 
soundtrack, "Boys" was both captivating 
and compelling. 
Caccamo and Irish agree with the major­
ity of the nation's critics in choosing· 
"Traffic" as the year's most relevant and 
controversial picture. Delving into the 
complex issue of drugs in America and its 
relation to the growing international drug 
trade, the film effectively questioned the 
nation's "war on drugs" using a style and 
approach unique to Hollywood filmmak­ing. 

But perhaps these guys have got it all wrong. Forget "Crouching Tiger's" fight sequences and disregard the sentimentali­ty of "Almost Famous." The summer's biggest surprise. the claymation comedy "Chicken Run," is the real winner, says Seymour. It took two years to complete. Each team worked a day to create 2.5 sec­onds of film. The teams were not only responsible for each object in the scene but also each character's mouth move­ments. All the attention to detail and the great p~tience needed to complete such a project finally paid off in an engaging and charming story the whole family could enjoy. 
Best Actor 
Hotly contested year after year, the Best Actor category produced diverse nomina­tions from Scene's critics (with the excep­tion of McCluskey, who felt no perfor­mance deserved the title). While Caccamo and Irish praise Tom Hanks' strong perfor­mance in the stranded-on-a-deserted­island-drama "Cast Away," Sikorski claims Geoffrey Rush's portrayal of sexual preda­tor Marquis de Sade was the main success of "Quills." 
While Hanks single-handedly made his film moving and important, Ralph Fiennes had to play three roles in the historical and epic "Sunshine." Fiennes played each gen­eration with a fascinating sense of origi­nality, putting forth the best effort of the year, says Seymour. 
Michael Douglas' performance in "Wonder Boys," though, is Dacey's choice. Douglas' portrayal of a struggling profes­sor in the midst of a dark personal reflec­tion was striking. Also, his interaction with co-star Tobey Maguire captured an inter­esting parallel between young and old. 
Not only was "Crouching Tiger" Fusz's 
pick for Best Picture, but he also feels it 
contained the year's best performance. 
Chow Yun Fat's superb martial arts talents 
combined with his restrained take on a 
legendary warrior contributed significantly 
to the film's success. 
Perhaps the most underrated actor 
working today, John Cusack gave audi­
ences a comedic and romantic tour-de­
force in the music-infused "High Fidelity." 
Donnelly says, because Cusack acts like an 
everyman in each role he plays, it was 
easy to empathize with his character's 
heart-broken reflections on life and love. 
Cusack's underrated-ness can be 
matched by Billy Crudup's namelessness. 
Appearing in three films in 2000, Crudup 
managed to catch critical attention in Crowe's "Famous," but, claims Nania, his brilliant performance in "Waking the Dead" was largely overlooked. In an emo­tional ghost story about one man's obses­sion with his long-dead girlfriend, Crudup expertly conveyed the dynamic feelings of fear, pain and longing. 
Best Actress 

This category is infamous for consisting of at least three actresses from foreign efforts, a fact that Hollywood should con­sider when it chooses which scripts to greenlight. Last year, though, offered audi­ences many excellent female perfor­mances (although Dacey felt no actress was impressive, thus not giving a nomina­tion). Chief among them, Caccamo and Seymour feel, is Joan Allen. Perhaps over­looked during awards season because of the critically divergent views on her film, "The Contender," Allen powerfully por­trayed a senator's struggle against a politi­cally motivated smear campaign. Allen has been a great supporting actress for years and was finally given a shot at leading a movie towards success (or failure, as some conservatives felt the film lapsed into polit­ical bias). 
Another performance was also given props by more than one of Scene's critics: Zhang Ziyi, for her portrayal of the head­strong adolescent princess torn between love, duty and wanderlust in "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon." Sikorski. Donnelly and Irish admire Ziyi's mind-blowing com­bat abilities as well as her skilled dramatic range, which was essential to the film's success. Similarly, Michelle Yeoh's depic­tion of an older female warrior in "Tiger" won over Fusz to receive his nomination. 
Lending credit to the theory that 2000 
offered actresses many powerful roles, 
McCluskey is torn between Juliette 
Binoche's lovely performance in the pleas­
ing "Chocolat" and Ellen Burstyn's forceful 
turn as a drug-addicted mother in 
"Requiem for a Dream." Whereas Binoche 
added charm to the tale of a traditional 
town changed by a store's sultry chocolate 
candies, Burstyn compelled audiences to 
confront the tragic effects of drug-hysteria. 
Nania's choice for Best Actress goes to 
Laura Linney for her understated, affect­
ing role as a mother and sister in the 
touching and authentic "You Can Count On 
Me." Unlike a lot of this year's great 
female performances, Linney had to stay 
subtle yet still make us believe in her char­
acter, however flawed she may be. 

Note that none of Scene's critics gave a 
nod to Julia Roberts for her supposedly 
great performance in "Erin Brockovich." 
While many critic groups and awards 
shows have named hers the best female 
performance of the year, Scene's critics 
were smart enough to know 
better. 
Best Supporting Actor 
Leading the pack in this cat­egory is Benicia Del Toro. Best known for his incoherent role in "The Usual Suspects," Del Toro burst onto the screen in "Traffic," playing a Mexican drug enforcement officer torn between his duty and his morality. He has received numerous accolades from crit­ics groups and snagged the Golden Globe away from some tough competition. Four of Scene's critics agree with the outcome. Fusz. McCluskey, Donnelly and Caccamov sin­gled out Del Toro because, in a film with at least two other great male performances (Don Cheadle and Michael Douglas, who Irish feels deserves the 


"Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon" received severa eign language film Is expected to garner numerou, 
honor), he stood out. Indeed, Del Toro showed off his bilingual skills in a truly bilingual film, showing that he is an up­and-coming star in Hollywood and beyond. 
Joaquin Phoenix, perhaps 2000's hard­est working actor. appeared in three impressive films: the box-office giant "Gladiator," "Quills" and the family crime drama "The Yards." It was his turn as a ruthless, neurotic Caesar in the sword and sandals epic that won over both Sikorski and Dacey. Instead of one-dimensional vii-


M 

cene E 
Thursday, February 8, 200I page 15 
best of the best 
:ritics offer their choices for Best Picture, Best Director and more 

Photo courtesy ol Sony Pictures Classics 

11 nominations from Scene's critics. The tor­saccolades at this year's Oscar ceremony. 
lainous brutality, "Gladiator.. featured a psychologically complex and vengeful tyrant whose brooding stare instilled as much fear-as any army mercenary. Phoenix's incredibly spoiled demeanor and jealousy was wonderful as he ranted and raved in depths of seJf-pity. 
Another hard-working, prolific character actor. Gary Oldman, is Seymour's choice. His portrayal of the pitiless, staunch Republican Shelly Runyon in "The Contender" was chilling. If Oldman keeps cranking out performances like this with each successive performance, he's due to win big someday. 

As captivating as Del Toro was in "Traffic," and while Phoenix's extensive range was startling, it is Mark RufTalo's touching and heartfelt performance as Laura Llnney's brother in "You Can Count On Me" that ultimately deserves the prize. Says Nania, not only does Ruffalo bear a striking resemblance to a young Marlon Brando, but he also displays that great actor's brooding intensity and methodic determination. 
Best Supporting Actress 
Zhang Ziyi received two nominations from Scene's critics in the Best Actress cat­egory. But Fusz and Seymour argue that her role was slightly less substantial, and thus consider it a supporting part. They feel she added tension to "Crouching Tiger" by being, all at once. ignorant of tradition and ungrateful of those who try to help her reach her potential. 
Irish and Sikorski, however, deem Catherine Zeta-Jones (aka Mrs. Douglas) the winner. As the wife of an incarcerated drug lord in "Traffic," she undergoes a drastic transformation from a dependent upper-class suburban housewife to a woman ferociously determined to get her 
. husband back and protect her family. 
Kate Hudson was also chosen by two of Scene's critics for her portrayal of "band aide" Penny Lane in "Almost Famous." Donnelly and McCluskey feel she created a full-bodied character out of what could have been a cookie-cutter role. 
Sweet and sexy. Tea Leoni made the love relationship between herself and Nicolas Cage in "The Family Man" as believably special as it appears. According to Nania, she consistently held her own and even stole the spotlight from time to time. Her performance was charming and exciting, and she added marital friction and frustra­tion to the film's central relationship. 
In another overlooked performance, the 18-year-old Erika Christensen convincingly played a U.S. drug czar's daughter addict­ed to crack and heroin. Says Caccamo. her descent into the world of drugs and sex was horrifying and, at the same time, won­derfully brought to the screen by a young. relatively inexperienced actress. 
Dacey's choice for best supporting actress has been perhaps even more over­looked by critics groups. Portraying one of five sisters in a dysfunctional family, Kirsten Dunst (who's set to play Mary Jane in the big screen version of "Spider-Man") expertly captured the perils of loneliness and isolation through her longings for affection in Sofia Coppola's debut effort "The Virgin Suicides." 
Best Director 
When the Oscar nomina­tions are announced for Best Director, there's a good chance only four names will be heard. That's thanks to Steven Soderbergh. who gave audiences not one but two impressive films in 2000 ("Erin Brockovich" and "Traffic"). Soderbergh has been nominated for both in many instances (he probably cancelled himself out at the Golden Globes) and three of Scene's critics agree. Caccamo, Sikorski and Irish all feel the two-timer did an excellentjob in putting togeth­er "Traffic's" ensemble cast and script, aiming it in the right direction. Soderbergh 
weaved several storylines without making the final prod­uct convoluted or preachy. Caccamo feels that both of the man's efforts are worthy of praise. Not only did he direct two success­ful films, he gave the year cinematic book­ends ("Erin" came out way back in February and "Traffic" arrived in theaters shortly after Christmas) that were widely divergent in topic and style without miss­ing a beat or showing any real flaws. 
Although Donnelly hates to not give Soderbergh his due, Ang Lee deserves the award. In a year of little creativity, "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon" was full of it. Seymour, Fusz and McCluskey agree. Lee was the field general in making the best looking movie of the year. Acknowledge his cinematographer for much of the look, but credit Lee for putting it all together into an enjoyable whole. 
Nania and McCluskey (who double-nom­inated once again) think the Academy should take the road less-traveled and nominate Darren Aronofsky for his power­ful and devastating two-hour "say-no-to­drugs" campaign entitled "Requiem for a Dream." In an era when too many movies try to be "cool" with the camera, Aronofsky finally put all the tricks to good use. Practically all of film's power came from the striking camerawork and editing. What resulted was the most intense and shocking film going experience of the year. 
There were plenty of well-crafted and artistic films in 2000, but due to the fact that it was her directing debut, Dacey gives his nomination to Sofia Coppola for "The Virgin Suicides." It was a bold project that dared to go beyond the Hollywood norm and. while not perfect. it was the year's most intriguing film. 
Favorite Movie Moments 
Although not an Oscar category. we thought it would ·be a good idea to empha­size just how enjoyable movies can be by sharing our favorite scenes from 2000's crop of cinematic efforts. 
McCluskey and Donnelly: Stillwater singing Elton John's "Tiny Dancer" while on the tour bus in "Almost Famous." Cameron Crowe captured the whole spirit of touring and being in a band in this one short scene. Donnelly, in particular, found true valu~ in this soon-to-classic sequence: "I am sick and tired of sarcasm and cyni­cism. This movie, and this scene, was hon­est. I can ask for nothing more." 
Nania and Irish: Chow Yun Fat and Zhang Ziyi flying and jousting through the treetops in the extraordinary "Crouching Tiger. Hidden Dragon." Ang Lee displayed his true gifts in this scene, showing just how imaginative and beautiful filmmaking can be. 
Dacey: A small scene in "The Big Kahuna," starring Kevin Spacey and Danny DeVito as salesmen who have a ten­dency to discuss deep, philosophical ques­tions. They sit and talk to each other late at night in an empty conference room at a hotel, reflecting on their lives. There is a great sense of friendship shared by the two that is both realistic and powerful. 
Caccamo: Tom Hanks swimming after his friend Wilson. a volleyball, as it floats away, far from his reach. It is a tribute to the film's impact and Hanks performance that such a seemingly silly prop became the essence of a remarkably touching scene towards the end of Hanks' journey offthe island. 
Fusz: The final scene in "Unbreakable," when the horrific truth is revealed about our hero (Bruce Willis), his origins and the unspeakabie evil that spawned him. 
Seymour: Watching the song "I am a Man of Constant Sorrow" leap out of The Soggy Bottom Boys in "O Brother, Where Art Thou?" Nothing turned a boring movie into a powder keg of fun for two minutes more than that song. 
Sikorski: Wolverine (Hugh Jackman) using his adamantium claws during a bar fight in "X-Men." Cheesy? Maybe. But at that moment a cultural icon came to life. 
The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences will reveal its nominations for 2000's best this Tuesday. 

Photo courtesy" DreamWorks SKG Directed by Cameron Crowe and starring Kate Hudson (third from left) and BIiiy Crudup (fourth from left), "Almost Famous" contained some unforgettable moments. 
page 16 

The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 8, 2001 
FOOTBALL 

Recruits still attracted to Irish for prestige, academics, athletics 
visit to, seeing the 'Huskers defeat the 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 

Irish in overtime wasn't enough to get 
Associate Sports Editor 

him wearing red. "The coaches [at Notre Dame] were 
Notre Dame may have missed out on great. The players were great," Powers­top recruit Shaun Cody, but for many Neal said, who also visited in earlyhigh school seniors, nothing could be bet­December for the football banquet. "It ter than the chance to come to Notre was probably my top school." Dame. The 6-1, 210-pounder may follow in 
Cody, considered the nation's top the footsteps of current players Tonydefensive player, chose to stay near Driver and David Givens by moving home by picking Southern California over around the field. Playing for St. Paul, Notre Dame yesterday. But a slew of Minnesota's Cretin-Derham Hall, 
solid commitments by other highly touted Powers-Neal spent time at running back, recruits has Irish eyes smiling with their linebacker, cornerback and safety, even decisions to wear the blue and gold. playing a bit of wide receiver. 
Offensive lineman Mark LeVoir, a 6-"Whatever gets me on the field the foot-7, 305-pounder from Eden Prairie, fastest," said Powers-Neal, who also Minn., never really considered going any­advanced to the state finals in track in where else. The first-team USA Today the 400-meter dash a year ago. All-American considered playing for the The academics-minded player hopes to blue and gold a dream, one that he com­major in chemical engineering. On the mitted to last year following the annual field, Powers-Neal's high school team Blue-Gold scrimmage. won the Class 5A state championship as 
"It wasn't really [a tough decision] at a junior before losing to future Irish all," at said LeVoir, the first verbal com­teammate Mark LeVoir's school in the mitment of the Class of 2005. "Basically state title game as a senior. everything about it, from the academics For other players, the choice wasn't to the football tradition. It was a Catholic quite so glow-in-the-dark. school and a smaller school. I always Corey Mays, a linebacker at Chicago's knew I wanted to go there." Morgan Park High School, followed Notre 
LeVoir ignored the swarms of Dame as a youngster. But as he grew up, recruiters knocking on his door from he turned away from the Irish. Now, the powerhouses like Florida, Florida State, USA Today second-team All-American Miami, Nebraska, Penn State and Texas. has come full circle. He wanted to play for his favorite team. "I liked Notre Dame when I was a kid, 
Considered the top signee in this year's but I kind of got away from them," Mays class, LeVoir will have that chance come said. "In the recruiting process, I got August. back with them. It was just a gut feel­
Defensive lineman Brian Beidatsch ing." backed out of a verbal commitment to While some critics say tough admis­Illinois when Notre Dame dangled a sions standards shred Notre Dame's scholarship offer in front of him. prospects, the commitment to academics 
"I thought the mix of education and the helped bring Mays into the fold. football program was a better fit for "First and foremost, I want to graduate myself," Beidatsch said. "The scholarship with a degree," Mays said. "I want to presented itself a little bit later ... make a name for myself on the field and 
The Milwaukee native didn't even off." make his official visit to Notre Dame until With a 4.4 high school GPA on a 4.0 a week ago, but he was already bleeding scale thanks to advanced courses in the blue and gold. classroom, and on the gridiron, Mays 
Tradition, family and academics. has the tools to get it done. The sprint 
Totn Letntning's 
Top 25 National Recruits 
1. 
QB Joe Mauer 6-4/205 Florida State 

2. 
QB Brodie Coyle 6-4/200 Alabama 

3. 
RB Kevin Jones 6-1/215 Virginia Tech 

4. 
WR Reggie Williams 6-4/215 Washington 

5. 
DL Shaun Cody 6-5/240 USC 

6. 
RB Eric Shelton 6-2/230 Florida State 

7. 
QB D.J. Shockley 6-2/190 Georgia 

8. 
WR Roscoe Crosby 6-3/197 Clemson 

9. 
DL Anttaj Hawthorne 6-4/308 Wisconsin 

10. 
RB Jabari Davis 6-0/230 Tennessee 

11. 
LB Leon Williams 6-3/230 Miami 

12. 
DB Marquise Hill 6-7/290 LSU 

13. 
QB Cecil Howard 6-3/190 Syracuse 

14. 
RB Carnell Williams 6-0/190 Auburn 

15. 
QB Adrian McPherson 6-4/180 Florida State 

16. 
RB Kelly Baraka 6-0/186 Michigan 

17. 
DL George Gause 6-5/235 South Carolina 

18. 
DL Pat Massey 6-8/240 Michigan 

19. 
RB De'Arrius Howard 6-0/220 Arkansas 

20. 
DB Marlin Jackson 6-1/185 Michigan . 

21. 
OL Ben Wilkerson 6-4/265 LSU 

22. 
QB Derek Anderson 6-6/225 Oregon State 

23. 
RB Damien Nash 5-11/180 Missouri 

24. 
OL Chris Spencer 6-4/305 Mississippi 

25. 
RB Cedric Houston 6-0/206 Tennessee 


Source:ESPN.com 

last week, but he set his heart on playing failed to sign a letter of commitment
Common choruses for why recruits were star, who ran a 23 second flat 200-meter 
football long before that. Ellick, at 5-11 Wednesday, but said he hasn't backed off 
sold on Notre Dame. dash as a junior, also has the work ethic. 
and 170 pounds, began playing football of Notre Dame at all.
Offensive lineman Dan Stevenson said, "I'm basically killing myself every day," 
when he was eight or nine years old. 'Tm still committed to Notre Dame,"
"The education I'm going to get is going Mays said of his offseason workouts. "I 
"It took me so long to play because my De La Garza said. "There are some
to be outstanding. EI like how the coach­can't list any great accomplishments 
mom thought I was going to get hurt," things I have to take care of, but I will 
es make you graduate in four years." because I'm not to a point where I'm sat­
Ellick said. sign with Notre Dame. 
Stevenson, who weighs in at 275 isfied. Each time I do better, I just want 
Ever since that "late" start, Ellick has A first-team all-state player in the state
pounds and measures 6-5, had originally to get something more and something 
ranked football his favorite sport, though where football is king, De La .Garza said 
committed to Nebraska but the visit to more and something more." 
he's already discussed doubling up by he has wanted to play for Notre Dame
Notre Dame for the Barrington, Ill., Florida cornerback Dwight Ellick, was 
running track with Irish football coaches. since eighth grade. Although all the
native quickly changed his mind. a late pick-me-up for Notre Dame. 
"All my life, that's my goal to go to the major schools in his native Texas were
"I took my visit there, and knew it was A speed demon who won the New York 
pros and be the best," Ellick said. "I want after him (Texas, Texas Tech and Texas
the place for me," said Stevenson, a state championship in the 100-meter 
to be the best corner to ever play at A&M), as well as Nebraska, he already
Parade All-American whose father dash in 10.6 seconds before moving to 
Notre Dame. I felt I had a good chance of had made up his mind to play for the
played for the Detroit Lions. Tampa last summer. Ellick's interest in 
contributing at Notre Dame. Now that Irish.
Nothing could deter running back/line­Notre Dame was piqued this fall. 
Brock Williams is gone, I think I'm going "I want to get a degree at Notre Dame
backer Rashon Powers-Neal from inking "I became interested in Notre Dame 
to come in right away and compete for a and be an All-American," De La Garza
with the Irish N not even visiting during about the middle of the season," Ellick 
starting spot." said.
the Notre Dame-Nebraska game. said. "It has great academics, a family 
The last ace-in-the-bag for Notre Dame National championship contenders or
Although Nebraska was one of the five atmosphere and I liked my visit a lot." 
is likely to be Texas' Aldo De La Garza. not, the name "Notre Dame" has more
schools Powers-Neal made an official He didn't settle on Notre Dame until 
The 6-4, 295-pound offensive lineman pull than gravity. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business dar: from _8 a.m. ro 3 r.m. ~c che Notre Dame o_fftce, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds 1s 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be p_repa1d. . The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the nght to edit
CLASSIFIEDS 

all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Suppressed Dead Sea Scrolls &  Live-in position (room and board  One day. One day and I'm on a  
Nag Hammadi Codices Research: www.geocities.com:80/Athens/Rho  Live in Lafayette Next Year 5 bdrm. Wash/dry $1305/mth  provided) with beach,pool, and house responsibilities.  FOR SALE  PERSONAL  plane. I can sleep on the plane.  
des/7031 /deadsea. html  call marty 232-1306  Work 6 days per week.  I need sleep. I need sleep. I need  
Free airline miles and CA$H! It is  sleep.  
Rooms for rent & share home. 65•  Applicant must be very responsible,  1998 Mitsubishi 3000GT  international and 100% FREE to  
FOR RENT  75 week includes utilities and cable. 233-4013  industrious, hard working, a self-starter, impeccably well groomed,  27,000 miles  join (but not for long!) http://thepay­line.com. click to ENROLL without  Cassie, thank you. I don't think I'm gonna pass, but having the book  
with a nice amiable personality.  any delay as everyone joining after  does help.  
automatic  you from whole world will be placed  
3-5 bedroom homes close to campus  WANTED  Room and board provided plus spending money and $10,000  red/black leather interior  under you in one straight line earn­ing you free airline miles. SIGN UP!  Break a leg, C. Scott!  
232-2595  towards tuition.  1 0CD/premium sound  Use my email address as your  -Theo  
mmmrentals@aol.com  Would you like an opportunity to  alloy wheels  referrer: thejpgroup@earthlink.net  
earn a $10,000 scholarship towards  Please send resume and a one- tinted windows  Ouestoins? Send me an email! .  Hello libby scmibby, my love!  
All the good homes are not gone!  next year's tuition?  page statement on why you think  excellent condition  
Available 4 bedroom. Available 2  you should be hired to:  Heidi- Vay to my roommates, Kate and  
bedroom.  Looking for an ND student to work  $20,000/offer  It's opening night for Guys & Dolls  Lauren who are going all over the  
Dave 291-2209  at a summer beach estate from  Box 153, 60 E.Chestnut St,  and you're going to be fabulous!!!  world and a special hello to the one  
macos@michiana.org  5/15/2001 -8/15/2001 in Eastern  Chicago, IL 60611.  219-315-0939  Break a leg!!  -Kimus  staying in South Bend, luv ya Kris!  
Long Island (Hamptons), New York.  

Thursday, February 8, 2001 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Page 17 

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2001 
8:00 P.M. 
McKenna Hall Auditorium 

MICHAEL FISHBANE 
NATHAN CUMMING.S PROFESSOR OF JEWISH STUDIES · ' 
UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO DIVINITY SCHOOL 
RECEPTION TO 

11THE SUFFERING AND SALVATION 
FOLLOW LECTURE 

OF GOD IN CLASSICAL JUDAISM'' 
ALL ARE WELCOME 
Thursday, February 8, 2001 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Saint Mary's unable to hold on to first-half lead for win 
By KATIE MCVOY 
Assistant Sports Editor 
They came for the shirts, but stayed for the game. A BOG promotion offering free T­shirts to fans attending Wednesday night's Saint Mary's basketball game brought fans to Angela Athletic Facility, but it was phenomenal first-half play during a 62-46 loss to Hope that kept fans at the game. 
The Belles, who have been without a complete team since early January, returned all of their players to the court. They led halfway through the first half by as much as six, and only trailed Hope by six at the half. 
..We looked like a team," 
head coach Suzanne Smith 
said of first half play. "We 
really played together." 
Hope head coach Brian 
Morehouse mixed it up on the 
court, bringing in players off 
the bench almost as soon as 
the game started. 
Smith used her bench as 
well. 
Sophomore post player 
Kristen Matha, still recovering 
from a concussion she 
received during Saturday's 
game, freshman guard Katie 
Miller, junior Jaime Dineen 
and freshman Leigh Ann 
Matesich all made an appear-


I 
l i ! 
If 
I I 'I 
I 
I 
ance early in the first half. 
"We were trying to match up with them," Smith said. "'It gave us some different oppor­tunities to play people." 
As a team, the Belles have had some recent trouble get­ting inside on offense. Wednesday that was not the case. 
Roberts led the Belles scor­ing drive with a short 2-point jumper. Matha joined in and worked the ball inside as well, totaling eight points for the team. 
"We had made it clear that we had to play aggressive tonight," Smith said. 
At halftime, Saint Mary's trailed 35-29. Strong offensive and defensive play kept the Belles with the Flying Dutch, but they just couldn't keep up the intensity during the second half. 
"We haven't had a full prac­
tice in a long time because 
players have-been out with 
injuries and illness," Smith 
said...That probably accounts 
for why some of the women 
looked winded during the 
game." 

To start off the second half, 
the Flying Dutch went on an 
11-point scoring streak that 
the Belles only answered with 
two points. 
Hope scored 10 points from 
the foul line in the second half 
while Saint Mary's scored only 


CHRISTINE KAAVThe Observer 

Shaun Russell, shown above, attempts to block a pass during the Belles' loss to Hope. Saint 
Mary's put in a stellar first-half performance before falling 62-46. 
defense," Smith said. "Their
two. 

Hope picked up its game, zone really left us standing 
and made sure it would bring there." Even though the Belles lost,
home itself one game closer to 
a 20-win season. "They picked  Smith is hoping the first half up their play will encourage her team.  
GEORGE WEIGEL  

Senior Fellow at the Ethics and Public Policy Center and author of 
Witness to Hope: The Biography of Pope john Paul II 
Thursday, February 8 
7:30 P.M. 

Hesburgh Library Auditorium Comments by 
Fr. Richard McBrien 
Theology Department 

University of Notre Dame 
author of 

Lives ofthe Popes: The Pontiffs from St. Peter to john Paul II 
Reception following in the Library Lounge , 
J 
"This is definitely a boost," she said. "We're really excited for who's left on our sched­ule." 
Saint Mary's will take on Olivet on Saturday at home. 

The Achievement ofPope John Paul II 
I' 
sponsored by the Notre Dame Center for Ethics & Culture 

Both speakers will be signing books at the reception . 
. ; 
f, 
"" 

( --------·-' ----------------------·---­

Page 19

Thursday, February 8, 2001 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
!!!itudent union HAPPENIN&!i 
, Di!.DB.Df-Di!!.11.DI  .  
Talk: PE Music Co. Play -Guys and Dolls 2/08-2/10. Thurs.-Sat. Acousticaf e  Washington Hall  730PM.  
2/08. Thursday. Lafortune Autumn in New York and The Legend ofBaggar Vance 2/08-2/10. Thurs.-Sat. DeBartolo 101/155  0900PM&1200AM. 1030PM/0800PM& 1030PM  

Talk: How the priest became a political scientist in Chile? Fr. Tim Scully 2/08. Thursday. Montgomery Theater 0800PM. 
Benefit Music Festival: Intuitive Rain and the Dunn Brothers 
2/09. Men's Hockey vs. BG 2/09. Dancer in the Dark  Friday. Friday.  
2/09-2/10.  Fri.-Sat.  

Sophomore Literary Festtval 2/09-2/11 . Fri.-Sun. Women's Tennis vs. Virginia Tech 2/09. Friday. Men's Tennis vs. Duke 2/10. Saturday. 
Library Auditorium JACC Snite LaFortune Ballroom Eck Tennis Pavilion Eck Tennis Pavilion 

Benefit Music Festival: Danielle rose and the Dunn Brothers 2/10. Saturday. Library Auditorium Flipside Playground Night 2/10. Saturday. Rolfs Sports Center Men's Hockey vs. BG 2/10. Saturday. JACC Matthew West in Concert-Free $2.00 coupons to first 100 students 2/10 Saturday. Reckers Campuswide Collection 
0800PM. 0700PM. 0730PM&0945PM. 0800PM-1 000PM. 0400PM. 11 ODAM. 0700PM. 01 00PM. 0700PM. 01 00PM. 
2/10-2/11. Saturday. Basilica/Hall Masses Free mock MCAT and LSAT tests-Kaplan 219-272-4135 or 1-800-Kaptests to sign up. 
2/10.  Saturday.  Debartolo 101 &103  0900AM.  
NAACP Formal  
2/10.  Saturday.  Lafortune Ballroom  0900PM-•0130AM.  

Pangborn Formal; Keough White Wedding; Carroll Dance; Siegfried Formal 
2/10. Saturday. Dillon Iron Classic 2/11. Sunday. JACC Spanish Mass 2/11. ,-Sunday. Zahm Hall Chapel Maria Sablem; piano 2/11. Sunday. Annenburgh Aud. ND Men's Tennis vs. Iowa 2/11. Sunday. Eck Tennis Pavilion ND Women's Tennis vs. North Carolina 2/11. -Sunday. Eck Tennis Pavilion French Film Festival: La Parinoire 2/11. Sunday. Annenburgh Aud. Goshen College Chamber Choir & Orchestra concert 2/11. Sunday. Basilica 
Oi!.fi!!.Of-Oi!!.f9.DJ, 

Student Body PresidenWice-President Election (primary) 
Gilda 

2/12. Monday. Snite Sophomore Literary Festival 2/12-2/14. Mon.-Wed. LaFortune Ballroom The Ginkgo Tree Bed-International Film Festival (Korea) 2/13. Tuesday. Montgomery Theater Sophomore Literary Festival 2713. Tuesday. LaFortune Ballroom Campus Interfaith Bible Study 2/13. Tuesday. Badin Chapel Sophomore Literary Festival 2/14. Wednesday. LaFortune Ballroom Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 2/14. Wednesday. Walsh Hall Chapel Student Body PresidenWice-President Electioh (run-offs) 
JPW  
2/15-2/18. Thur.-Sun.  
Acousticafe  
2/15.  Thursday.  

Swedish Radio Orchestra: Verdi's Requiem 2/15. Thursday. Girlfight and The Sixth Day 2/15-2/17. Thurs.-Saturday. Blak Koffee House 2/16. Friday. 
The Eyes of Tammy Faye Baker 
2/16-2/17. Fri.-Sat. · SMC Presents: Dancers' Palette 2/16-2/17. Fri. & Sat. Notre Dame Jazz Bands 2/17. Saturday. JPW Mass 2/17. Saturday. Spanish Mass 2/18. Sunday. Raging Bull 2/19. Monday. Open Swing Dance LaFortune Ballroom 

LaFortune Huddle O'Laughlin Aud. Debartolo 1 01 /1 55 LaFortune Ballroom Snite Little Theater Washington Hall 
JACC 
Zahm Hall Chapel Snite­1200PM-0600PM. 0130PM. 0400PM. 1000AM. 1200PM. 0200PM. 0800PM-1000PM. 
• 
2/12. Monday. 0700PM 0800PM-1000AM. 0700PM&0900PM. 0800PM-1 000AM. 0700PM. 0800PM-1 000PM. 1000PM-1100PM. 
2/15. Thursday. 
0900PM-1200AM. 0800PM. 1030PM/ 
0800PM&1030PM 0800PM-1030PM. 0730PM&0945PM. 0800PM. 0230PM. 0530PM. 0130PM. 0700PM. 
2/19. Monday. 
al!!ia in FEBRUARY  
Romance Language Department's Italian coffee Hour  Decio 131 0S00PM  
Antonia Castenada Lecture: "Lullabies, History, and Memory"  McKenna 112/114 0415PM  

Lecture by Prof. Michael Fihsbane of U of Chicago 
11 Suffering and Salvation of God in Jewish Theology" McKenna Hall 0800PM 
Feb. 25-Mar 2 Feb 23 
Feb 24 Mar. 2 Mar. 3 Mar. 24 Mar. 31 April 7 April 20 April 21 
Mar. 30 April 1 April 6 
April 7 
April 20 
April 21 
April27 
April 28 
upcomingEVENTS 

Bengal Bouts Sorin Formal; Badin Dance; Howard Dance Dillon Dance Knott Hall Dance Stanford, Lewis Dances Morrissey Dance Sophomore Ctass Ball Alumni Wake, Lewis Crush Sorin Dance Walsh Formal 
!!ipring !!iemester EVENTS 
McGlinn Casino Night St. Edward's Hall Spring Fling Alumni Processional 0400PM-0700PM Lewis Chicken run 0400PM-0700PM Badin Block Party 0400PM-0700PM Carroll Hall Fusic Festival 1200PM-0700PM Howard Concert, South Quad 0400PM-0700PM Fisher Regatta 0200PM-0500PM 

----~------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 20 · The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 8, 2001 

Women 
continued from page 28 
Kelley Siemon. 

l 
"I don't think any of us can pinpoint right now what's wrong, or what we
ll. haven't been doing recently," Siemon said. "We're not shutting down teams with defense like we have been. I think we should have the kind of pride where teams should come in here and not even be able to score 50." 
Laine Selwyn led the Panther charge with 23 points including 4 of 6 from behind the arc. 
"Defensively we had a lot of break­downs," said McGraw. "We couldn't find their shooters. We went zone, they had one shooter in the game, and we ~ouldn't find that one shooter. [Selwyn]was driving left every doggone time and nobody stepped over to help." 
McGraw was also quick to recognize the effort of the Panthers. "They played hard, they didn't quit," she said. "We get up big, we just expect that teams are going to quit this season. They're still fighting out there trying to make it close." 
One bright spot for the Irish was the 1 play of Ruth Riley. The national player of 
the year candidate recorded a double-dou­l' ble finishing with 29 points and 12 ; ; rebounds. 
I I 
Towards the end of the first half Notre . ! l Dame steadied enough to take a 10 point advantage into the locker room. Moreli importantly, the Irish did it with center Ruth Riley on the bench saddled with two
I 
fouls . 

• I The Pittsburgh defense held Riley in check for most of the first half, but could not stop her in the second. "I think the only place Notre Dame hurt us in my opinion is on the boards," said Panthers' coach Traci Waites. "I thought we played pretty tough defense and we got great shots. They didn't go in." 
As for Riley, Wai_tes said, "We tried to 


l l · 
I 
I 1 I, I I 
! : I 
. ! : 
! ( ! 
l l 

I 
I 
I I 

I 

>> gou," Bt;.N019 B\()Gt;_g f PA.l<JTY<< 222 S. MICHIGAN•SOUTH BEND•219.234.5200 
s1 COVER (WITH COLLEGE ID, MUST BE 21) AND LOTS OF OTHER STUFF FOR A BUCK, TOO. CAU THE HEARnAND CONCERT & MNT UNE 219.251.2568•MORE PICTURES@WWW.HEARTl.ANDSOUTHBEND.COM 
escape the 
Give a cold shoulder to your "usual" night out & warm-up 
your winter with a sizzling taste of summer: a tender filet (13.99), 
t-bone (17.99) or C?Ur specialty, 12oz. of USDA prime New York 
strip (14.95). Lighter options, too! 
NOW OIDJ RR I1{[E :NKHr IiINTI'G FRITAY & fA'IlJR[1\Y 
222 S MICHIGAN, SOUTH BEND 219-234·5200 


3/4 [pressure] and break somebody over.We did a better job in the first half." 
Early in the second half, when Riley was starting to heat up, she was charged with her third foul. McGraw chose to leave her star center in the game. 
"I wasn't going to take her out. She was really the only one playing well at that time offensively," McGraw said. "She was our offense. She was the only one that shot the ball well today." 
The Panther inside defense was unable to sustain its defense on Riley for 40 min­utes. 
"I thought we contained her pretty well in the first half. The help wasn't there in the second half," Selwyn said. "We had some breakdowns. \Ve almost got her in foul trouble early and we're going to try to do that again." 
Although she played well individually, Riley was not at all satisfied with the team's performance. "Anytime we don't play as well as we're capable of playing, you don't want to play like that -espe­cially not at the end of the season," Riley said. 
Riley knows that the end of the season is fast approaching, as is the end of her col­legiate career. "I don't think we're think­ing about the win streak. I think we're thinking about how we want to finish the season," said Riley. "For us three up here [Riley, Siemon, Ivey]. it's just the last seven or eight games that we're going to play." 
Ivey reiterated those thoughts. "Its frus­trating to see how much talent we have and not show it. Every game's important for us," she said. "We just don't want to look back and regret anything that we did." 
The Irish held a 42-33 advatage on the boards, but the Panthers outscored the Irish on second chance points 20-17. 
Although the Irish have a week off until their next game, the team is ready to play and show their potential. "I think if we played tomorrow, we'd kill a team by 70. That's how mad I feel." Siemon said. 

i '' 
Thursday, February 8, 200 I 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Page 21 
-
Calendar of Events 
Beginning Monday, January 29 
through February 19 
Sign-up for Freshman Retreat #34 
(February 23-24, 2001) 
Pick up applications at 103 Hesburgh Library 
or print one out online at 
www.nd.edu/--ministrylfreshmanform.html 
6eginning Monday, February 5 
through February 23 
Sign-up for Senior Retreat #5 
(March 2-3, 2001) 
Pick up applications at 103 Hesburgh Library 
or print one out online 
at www.nd.edul ,-,ministrylseniorform.html 
Thursday, February 8. 6:00 p.m. 
Foster Room. LaFortune 
Campus Ministry Intern Information Night 
Thursday. February 8. 6:30 p.m, 
201 DeBartolo 
RCIA Study Session 
Friday-Saturday. February 9-1 O 
Sacred Heart Parish Center 
Senior Transition Retreat Co-sponsored with the Center for Social Concerns 
Friday-Saturday. February 9-10 
Lindenwood Retreat Center 
Learning to Talk About Race Retreat 
Friday-Sunday. February 9-11 
Fatima Retreat Center 
Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #64 
Friday-Sunday, Fepruary 9-11 
Wisconsin, Minnesota 
Notre Dame Women,s Liturgical Choir Tour 
Saturday-Sunday. February 10-11 Pilsen. Chicago.· rL 
Encuentro Chicago Retreat Co-sponosred with the Center for Social Concerns 
Sunday. February 11. 1:30 p.m. Zahm Hall Chapel 
Spanish Mass Presider: Fr. Pat Neary, c.s.c. 
Sunday. February 11, 8:Q0 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Goshen College Chamber Choir & Orchestra Concert 
Monday-Tuesday, February 12~13. 11:30 pm-10:00pm St. Paul's Chapel. Fisher Hall 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Tuesday. February 13, 7:00 p.m. Badin Hall Chapel 
Campus Bible Study 
Wednesday, February 14, 10:00 p.m. Morrissey Hall Chapel ' 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Sixth Sunday in Ordinary Time 
Weekend Presiders 
• Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Saturday, February 10 Mass 
5:00 p.m. Rev. Gary S. Chamberland, c.s.c. 
Sunday, February 11 Mass 
10:00 a.m. Rev. Tom E. Gaughan, c.s.c. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. Timothy R. Scully, c.s.c. 
Scripture Readings for this Coming Sunday 
1st Rea~ing  Jer 17: 5-:-8  
2nd Reading  ICor 15: 12,16-20  
Gospel  Lk 6: 17, 20 ­ 26  


Hassle-free campus driving and other little-known perks of the Campus Ministry internship 
Not just a "fifth year" at ND 
By Amy Seamon 
When I began the Campus Ministry Internship last August I kept thinking of this chance as my "fifth year.,, I still have friends who are Seniors, I have my connection at my favorite local pub having been the manager last year, and the fact that this isn't a 9-5 job sounded great to someone who hasn't been a morning person all of her life. When in reality, a couple of months after having been in the position, I realized very quickly how different this year was going to be for me. A number of my best friends are not here with me, I don't always feel like it is appro­priate as a member of the staff to visit my favorite local establishments, and this isn't a 9-5 job, it's a lifestyle I have chosen. 
The University of Notre Dame has given me so much in the past four and a half years of my 
TOP TEN REASONS 
to be a Campus Ministry Intern 
10. Drive your car on campus whenever you want (a.k.a. hangtag & gate card) 
9. Live in a phat pad on Notre Dame Ave. 
8. Give something back to the Notre Dame Community 
7. Domer dollars 

6. Another year beneath the Golden Dome 
5. You get to dress up in a cow suit and share your faith with udders. 
4. Grow in and learn about your faith at work and at home 
3. Educate and guide peers in Catholic faith formation 
2. You get to hang out with Tami Schmitz all of the time 
1. You'll go to heaven. 
life. I am blessed with friends 
who will indeed last a lifetime, 
knowledge that will hopefully 
benefit me as a teacher in the 
classroom someday, but most 
importantly, this University 
provides me with a faith that is 
so strong, yet challenged every­
day. 

I have the unique opportunity to work in Campus Ministry for a year and hopefully give back to this community at least some of the love, generosity, and power-' ful witness of Christian living it has shown to me. I received my teaching certification the day I graduated. How easy it could have been for me to dig right into the responsibilities of an English teacher. I wasn't ready for those responsibilities. I wanted this year to help me realize that it's not simply a post-graduate year of service I want to accomplish, bur rather, 
·a life ofservice. This year is helping me to challenge, grow, 
and learn from my faith. I know I will teach someday, but I will be a better teacher, woman, 
friend, and Christian because of this year ofservice and the lifestyle it is helping me to live. 
No Regrets 
By Justin Dunn 
It was around this time last year, seeking direction on a senior retreat, that I was introduced to the internship with Campus Ministry. I was looking at several different service prograrns,· trying to find one that I would both enjoy and benefit from. Knowing I would even"tually go on to medical school, I wanted to find a program that was both challenging and interesting, but at the same time allowed a change of pace from the stress of academic life. This internship with. Campus Ministry sounded interesting, and I figured there was no harm in applying. 
As the application process proceeded, I began spending more time at Campus Ministry, meeting the people who worked there., The more I looked into the internship program, the more interested I became. I saw all the good works the people ofCampus Ministry were doing on a daily basis, dedicating their lives to the moral and faith development of others. I realized that even though the internship isn't an established service program, it afforded me the chance to give something back to the Notre Dame community while furthering my own faith and moral integrity. So when I was offered the position, I accepted, and I haven't once regretted it. 
This year gives me the opportunity to help and encourage others to grow in their faith, develop a better understanding ofwhat that means to them on a personal level, and learn more about what it is to be Catholic. I have a chance to play a direct role in bringing people into the Catholic faith through RCIA. I work directly with Emmaus to encourage students to share their faith with one another. Some of the greatest experiences of my undergrad years were on retreats such as NOE and Senior Retreat, and now I get to work directly with them from the other side, hopefully making those experiences as enriching for others as they were for me. 
-(?Jv1PU5

Everyday my faith is strengthened and grows because of the work I do and the people I meet 
MINISTRY 

through Campus Ministry. 
~,
,I: 
itil 
4• 
1 
1 
\ 
] 
:1 
! 
. , 
i' j '' l 
I 
d ''·l j 
'r 
I ! 

page 22 
Column 
continued from page 28 
without two injured starters ­stay in the game with the most heralded team in women's bas­ketball in recent weeks. 
"I think the only place Notre Dame hurt us in my opinion is on the boards," Waites said. "I thought we played pretty tough defense and we got great shots." 
With all the attention the Irish have been getting as the No. 1 team as of late, it is becoming increasingly difficult to avoid overconfidence. Rather than dis­playing the anxiousness to go out on the court and dominate for 40 minutes as they did in early-sea­son games against the likes of Arizona, North Carolina and Fordham, the Irish appear to be wading through the remaining games before hitting the postsea­son tournaments. 
"We get up big, we just expect that teams are going to quit this season," McGraw said, observing how Pittsburgh never slacked off. '·They're still fighting out there trying to make it close." 

Following the press conference, parents and children seeking autographs and offering congrat­ulatory words swarmed McGraw and the Irish players. While such behavior is to be appreciated, it lessens the impact of a game in which the Irish played like any­thing but a No. 1 team. 
With a week off before playing two East Coast in four days at 
ERASMU_S BOOKS 
-Used Books bought and sold -25 Categories of Books 
-25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 
•Out..of-Print search service -Appraisals large and small 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 

, 
Thursday, February 8, 2001 
play hard every game." 
With five games left until the postseason, now there's no looking back. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

•

anov1c
•

nst1tute 
for European Studies 
The Nanovic Institute for European Studies has announced its 2001-2002 grant program for faculty, graduate students, and undergraduate students. 
Faculty Grants: The Institute will award three faculty grants of up to $4,000 each for projects that deal with European issues.' Preference will be given to those proposals that require travel to Europe. These grants can be used for summer research or for research during the 2001-02 academic year. 
Graduate Students Grants: The Institute will award three graduate student grants of up to $3,000 each for projects that deal with European issues. Preference will be given to those proposals that require travel to Europe. These grants can be used for summer research or for research during the 2001-02 academic year. 
Undera:raduate Student Grants: The Institute will award five undergraduate grants of up to $3,000 each for projects that deal with European issues. Two of the grants are specifically designated for East-Central Europe and Russia. Preference will be given to those proposals that require travel to Europe. It is expected that these grants will be used for summer research. *Note: the East-Central Europe and Russia grants may be used by students who wish to fill an internship .or attend a conference in the region. These grants may be used at any time during the year. 
Graduate Fellowship: The Institute will award one graduate Fellowship of up to $15,000 plus travel expenses for research in Europe for the academic year 2001-02. Applicants in all disciplines of the humanities and social sciences are eligible. Preference will be given to those students working on contemporary European topics, needing support for dissertation research in Europe, and able to ·explain why funding is needed at this time. 
Application deadline: March 23rd' 2001 
For more information contact: The Nanovic Institute Phone: (219) 631-5253 419 Flanner Hall E-mail: ND.Nanovic.l@nd.edu 



Antonia Castaneda 
St. Mary's University, San Antonio 
''Lullabies, History, and Memory'' 
Thursday, February 8, 2001 
4:15 P.M. 112/114 McKenna Hall 
Presented by: Institute for Latino Studies 

~!ft-~~=:~-2:-r~~~~.:E~:--~~~:-:fftI!¼i~~;~:~:~.T;~~;~~(~f~~~i:-~".il~l}I?i:~; 
The Observer . SPORTS 
Syracuse and Rutgers, the Irish must realize that this is the pivotal point in their season. They can put together the strong defense dis­played a week ago against Providence and the nearly flawless offense shown at Boston College. 
Or they can drift further down 
the river of underachievement dis­played Wednesday night. "Its frus­trating to see how much talent we have and not show it. Every game's important for us," Ivey said. "We just don't want to look back and regret anything that we did. We just need to go out and 
Thursday, February 8, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
Linebacke"r Carlos Pierre­changing positions from tail­
Recruits 
Antoine. a second-team USA back in high school to fullback TODAY selection. recorded at Notre Dame. continued from page 28 only two tackles in two games Meanwhile, three other cur­
played during the 2000 season. rent players have exceeded the most criticized member of the Another highly touted recruit, pre-college expectations of the Irish team. Mike McNair, has battled recruiting analysts. Last year. 
injuries and has had trouble Carlyle Holiday and Jared 
The Faces 01 Holy Cross 

Fr. Theodore M. Heshurgh, C.S.C 
Awarded Congressional Gold Medal July 13, 2000 
"I want nothing else, have never wanted anything else, have never been anything else but a priest." 
ANSWER~ THECALL '<!::/' 
WW'W'.nd.edu/~vocation 
SUMMER INTERNSHIP OPPORTUNITIES 
at aWORLD-CLASS/GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FACILITY 
The Environmental Research Institute, a joint activity of Notre Dame and Argonne National Laboratory, in collaboration with the Center for Environmental Science and Technology (CEST), will award up to 2 summer internships at Argonne National Laboratory for 2001 with afollow-up research appointment on campus in the Fall. Stipend, room and board are provided for the 10-week program at Argonne. 
Student applicants should have research interests in an environmentally-related discipline (fllll'. field of study) concerned with or likely to contribute to the understanding,· assessment, or improvement of the environment. Applicants must be US citizens or permanent residents, enrolled at Notre Dame, have completed their Junior Year by May 2001, and be registered to return in the Fall of2001. 
For more details, contact Donna Fecher in the Center for Environmental Science and Technology: 152A Fitzpatrick Hall, 631-8376. Applicants will be required to complete an application. Deadline is February 23, 2001. 
Clark were both ranked above wants to rank the recruitingMatt Lovecchio in Lemming's classes," Davie said. "That's 
list. But while Holiday and 
impossible to do. Getting them 

Clark did not play in 2000, 
to sign is just a small part of it. 

LoVecchio went 7-1 as a first­
What comes next is impor­

year starter, Current junior 
tant."

Anthony Weaver, a three-year So if rankings are meaning­,,_starter on the defensive line, less and· "what comes next iswas a relative unknown when important". then coaching the
he came out of Saratoga 
talent must be crucial for on­

Springs, New York in 1998. And starting running back field success, right? Julius Jones garnered only The names may change in honorable mention high school the future but one thing will All-American honors. remain the same. 
"I think sometimes we get The Great Debate will contin­ahead of ourselves, everyone ue for several more years. 
GREG NORMAN HOLDEN INTERNATIONAL 
Garcia takes lead mid­way in competition 
hitting the ball really good and
Associated Press 
started making some nice birdies at the beginning and itSYDNEY, Australia just kept on going for the wholeSergio Garcia shot a 9-under­round."

par 64 on Thursday to take the He holed 15-foot birdie puttslead midway through the first on Nos. 12 and 15, added a 20­
round of the Greg Norman 
footer on No. 5 and made a 25­Holden International. 
footer on No. 8 to reach 9The 21-year-old Spanish star, under.

winless since the 1999 German "It's important to start with aMasters, had nine birdies in the round like this, to be up there," bogey-free round on The Lakes Garcia said. "Hopefully, I'll have course. He shot a 5-under 32 on a couple more good rounds and 
the back nine, his first nine 
I'll be on the top on Sunday."

holes, and closed with a 4-under 
Sweden's Pierre Fulke, the 32 on the front nine. runner-up in the Match Play
"It was a great round. I felt Championship last month in great," Garcia said. "I started Melbourne, opened with a 65. 

-------------.. 
Happy 21st McGoo! 
Sorry it's a day late. 
-------------· 

Interested in a career in math? Come find out what other ND grads did with their degrees. 
µ«a presents amathematics career forum with apanel of ND graduates.now in the "Real World'). 
Thursday,_Febrnary?, 2001 5:30·-7p-.m. 226 CCMB Free Food! 
I I 
1 


---------· ---------·-----­

~-. Recruiting the 
I; ' 
l i ' 
CLASS OF 2005 
l, 
: i Thursday, February 8, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 24 
I 

j I j ! 
i. 
! I l 
I' 
I 
l 
'i 
I:
i. 
; i 
ll 
-:
Ii 
\ 
i 
~ 
l
i. 
i 
ll 
I I I 
I I 
I 
'j 
I 
1 
~ 
) 
I 
J 
I' 
I' 
• I 
! I 
I 
\ 


; i 
'i 


Carlos Campbell 
Wide Receiver 
6-1, 190 
Hampton, Va. 
"He's afour-star play­er and probably should see some playing time as a freshman. " 
Tom Lemming Recruiting analyst 
Notes: Two-way starter who earned all-state hon­ors in Va. as defensive back in 2000 and as reciev­er in 1999 ... played quarterback as senior in 2000 

Notes: Parade prep All­American ... had 73 tackles, nine sacks, six tackles for loss, two 
caused fumbles and a 
fumble recovery as junior defensive 
lineman in 1999 

Notes: First-team selec­tion on Atlanta Journal­Constitution Georgia Class MAAA all-state team ... also played line­
backer on defense ... 
plays basketball as well 

Zachary Giles 
Offensive Line 
6-4, 285 
Marshfield, Mass. 
"He'll wind up probably playing offensive guard in college. The No. 1 player in Massachusetts." 
Tom Lemming Recruiting analyst 
Darin Mitchell 
Offensive Line 
6-4, 285 
Jonesboro, Ga. 
"Not recruited by a lot ofthe major schools around the Atlanta area but Notre Dame sees a lot of potential . ., 
Tom Lemming RecruHing analyst 
~i£Ai1~'iW·~idYtt1lftiiY:;
·• ... 7stffiied.1He could IJe an / 1i1:. 
· All-Americantackle in ·.. colle.ge. #tt lias s_qme of qie quiek.estfeetJ??e seen 
··for_ a 300-pound,er this 
. ...... · . . ·.·· ii > ";; . ·••e .. ···•···..... 
·•0! · Yllqn
\·Tom••Lernming 
---·-·:·.·..-.:. -n~-~~~141-~d __ .._._ --··-·----:-·-: -. ··::::::.:.-:··:fiL:?·-•... ·•·· •.. i•i&if i~.·.;·~·•.-, ..
...1.•····• UI·.·•· > ; ,!1~!l'!~t .. ~;;: :;V> ' 

·· nt~~ ~s.st1iji9r;),1 tr~#;~ sfa11···••·. ·.•·· .. ,,., 
. >·. ·, ... ··· .. ·.·a·· .. , ...·.·.·•·•· . ·.· •· 

Notes: New Jersey state player of the year for 2000, according to USA Today ... rushed for 
· 1,963 yards and 26 touchdowns as senior tailback at Don Bosco Prep H.S in Ramsay, N.J. 
1
1

F\ffl~¥S~.:-_y •. i.·.-•.·•.,.•.···•·•.)}it.·•••·.iij:CJ'iWATCHi
;··•••·••••······••·•··.•:;;;R.J~.,~i;a. .... .. ...· ,r ­
·· ·· · ·... ·.· ·.·.·.•· .•·. 

Mark teVoir 
·..· ..·• > ·Tight End., ;.v ·· · 
•. > &7 310 . w .. . .. ..• · · w-' < .....
•··/··•~gen Pr@lrle•.. Mirll}e!Jota·. ·•>Mf:.)'·· 
-:-:ix:·.:·::-~~::;./:.:/, ·\'.:(i/l[~~iif?)/t::·· 
.•.•. M .•.;·•;~;;l!jil1;~rll1r;ti:~llL +• .•··.• 
-:-.::: ,.j~~i/\~,ii:,,-.;_/-:,:-\/i 
Ryan Grant 
Running Back 
6-1, 198 
Nyack, N.Y. 
"Another great athlete. I think he'd be an All-American atfree safety but he wants to get a shot at running back." 
Tom Lemming Recruiting analyst 
Matt Root 
Tight End 
6-6,225 
Tallahassee, Fla. 
"A four-star tight end before he had a real serious knee injury. When he's healthy he has great size. and terrific hands. " Tom Lemming Recruiting analyst 
Dan Stevenson 
Offensive Line 
6-5, 300 
Barrington, Ill. 
"He was heavily recruited and was offered (a scholarship) byjust about every school in the nation. He'll wind up playing tackle or guard in college.. " 
Tom Lemming Recruiting analyst 


Cory Jones 
Running Back 
6-2, 215 
Seattle, Wash. 
"He'll probably wind up playing linebacker in college. He's very quick to the ball and is physical. " 
Tom Lemming Recruiting analyst 

Notes: Rushed 183 times for 1,441 yards and 25 touchdowns as a senior... also caught 20 passes for 454 yards and six touchdowns ... returned two interceptions for scores as senior ... led team to 
unbeaten regular season 

Notes: Rushed 39 times 258 yards and three touchdowns as senior despite knee injury... ' also made 17 tackles and recovered two 
fumbles in 2000 

Notes: Rushed for 1,712 yards and 25 touch­downs as senior in 2000 ... from same high school as current Irish center JW Jordan... attended Notre Dame football camp in 2000 
Matt Shelton 
Wide Receiver 
6-1, 170 
Collierville, Tenn. 
"He wasn't a real productive high school ballplayer but they love his speed and potential. He looked great at the Notre Dame 
summer camp" 
Tom Lemming Recruiting analyst 
Marcus Wilson 
Running Back 
5-11, 180 
Staten Island, N. Y. 
"His competition level (in high school) was good but not great. But he's another fast corner back who had a real good senior year at running back. " 
Tom Lemming Recruiting analyst 


Notes: Caught 17 pass­es for 271 yards and two TDs as senior in 2000 ... also played defensive end ... father Jack Root was second­team Academic All­American at Stanford 


Notes: Parade prep AH­American ... rated 95th on Chicago Sun-Times list of top 100 prospects nationally ... father Mark played for Detroit Lions as center/guard in 
1985. 

-

~-:, Recruiting the 
~~ 

CLASS OF 2005 
page 25 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 8, 2001 

Brian Beidatsch 
Defensive Line 
6-4, 265 
Milwaukee, Wisc. 
"He played defensive end but they're probably looking at him as a defensive tackle. He's got good quickness." 
Tom Lemming Recruiting Analyst 

Notes: Made more than 100 tackles and 15 sacks as a senior ... Wisconsin all-state pick who was a two-year, two-way starter at defensive end and offensive guard. 

Lionel Bolen 
Cornerback 
6-1, 185 
Westhampton, N.J. 
"Explosive speed. great reaction, real good range. He could end up playing either corner­back or free safety in 
college." 
Tom lemming Recruiting Analyst 

Notes: Two-way starter at cornerback and as option quarterback as senior ... made 50 tackles and intercepted four passes on defense 



Quentin Burrell 
Safety 
6-1, 185 
Decatur, Ga. 

"He has good instincts. a steady ballplayer. He's not particularly big orfast but a very good. steady ballplayer. " 
Tom Lemming Recruiting Analyst 

Notes: Made 90 tackles to go with seven intercep­tions as senior ... had nine interceptions as a junior free safety ... great-grandson of former Grambling coach Eddie Robinson 
Dwight Ellick 
Cornerback 
5-11,170 
Tampa, Fla. 
"Probably the fastest guy in the group. He has a great future as a 
cover corner. 
Tom Lemming Recruiting Analyst 

Notes: Made 70 tackles, intercepted four passes and broke up 16 others as senior in 2000 for 2-8 Wharton High School in Tampa, Fla. 
.) 
J 
.. 


. 
notes, quotes and pictures compiled by 
KERRY SMITH, TIM CASEY and NOAH AMSTADTER 

Notes: Rushed for near­ly 2000 yards as senior ... brother Leon Neal played two years as tailback with Indianapolis Colts in 1996-1997 

Rashon Powers-Neal 
Linebackar 
6-3, 215 
St. Paul, Minn. 

"He's a very determined ballplayer. Once he puts on more weight he could be a real good defensive player." 
Tom Lemming Recruiting Analyst 


Notes: Helped Penn yo Indiana class 5-A state title in 2000 ... South Bend Tribune all-area pick ... attended Notre Dame football camp in summer of 2000 

Notes: Named Alabama Class 4A player of the year as senior in 2000 ... first-team Alabama all­state as tight end in 1999 ... averaged 18 points and 11 rebounds as senior in basketball 
Jeff Thompson 
Defensive Line 
6-5, 265 
Granger, Ind. 
"Could play defensive tackle or o.ffensive guard in college. Notre Dame. Michigan and a lot ofthe major schools really liked his athletic ability. " 
Tom Lemming Recruiting Analyst 
Justin Tuck 
Linebacker 
6-5, 215 
Kellyton, Ala. 
"He's probably the least known of all the recruits. He's not a great player yet but he has a chance to be really good ... 
Tom Lemming Recruiting Analyst 


Notes: Recorded 90 tackles as a senior line­backer, including 25 for losses ... won High School Heisman award for New Jersey ... moved with his family from Trinidad when he was three years old 
Brandon Hoyte 
Linebacker 
6-0, 219 Parlin, N. J. 
"He's builtjust like Corey Mays, quick to the ball and very phys­ical. also. He likes playing running back and could be a good fullback ... 
Tom Lemming Recruiting Analyst 

i 
I 
I I ' page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 8, 2001 
I 

l 
' 
FOOTBALL 

Notre Dame adds speed with Class of 2005 recruits 
group of offensive linemen. Wednesday." De La Garza's high sive backs, headed by Lionel South Bend. By ANDREW SOUKUP After not signing a single school head coach Dick Rhoades Bolen. Recruiting analysts Offensively, Notre Dame Sports Writer , offensive lineman last year, the told Rivals.com. "There are across the nation expected gained a pair of exceptionally 
Irish pulled in five linemen, some academic things he still Bolen to commit to Virginia talented skill players. Wide After glancing over the 19 three of whom are ranked needs to get before he can sign. Tech, but the cornerback chose receiver Matt Shelton attended players who signed national let­among the top 25 in the nation Getting into Notre Dame isn't Notre Dame in a last-minute Notre Dame's summer camp, 
ters of intent to play football for according to ESPN.com's Tom easy, but when he meets the cri­decision. Bolen is from the same where he wowed coaches with Notre Dame next year, one thing Lemming. teria, he will sign." New Jersey high school as cur­his blazing speed. 
is clear. "All our offensive linemen are Despite pulling in talented rent tailback Terrance Howard. As a wide receiver, Shelton
'' 
i ! I! 
The Irish just got a lot faster. very athletic," Davie said. offensive line recruits, the Irish Cornerback Dwight Ellick, rushed for 258 yards his senior 
I 
Last year, the Irish landed Mark LeVoir heads the list of coaching staffs focus was clear­who is predicted to win the 100-year. despite a knee injury that four quarterbacks and numer­the talented lineman. ly on getting faster, and this is meter title in Florida this spring. cut his season in half. Shelton ous physical wide receivers. "He is a giant," Davie said of reflected in the quick players ran a 4.3 40-yard dash. Ellick is ran a 4.2 40-yard dash, the 
the 310-pound Minnesota Notre Dame landed. not one of the highest rated cor­fastest of all the Irish recruits. 
They recruited 10 position play­

ers on offense and exactly zero native. "But he has some unique "I think the thing that jumps nerbacks in_ the nation partly Running back Ryan Grant fills offensive linemen. Defensively, skills as well." out at you is the speed." Davie because he moved from New a hole in the Irish backfield. Notre Dame was very big and LeVoir is a first team USA said. "After the Fiesta Bowl, the York to Florida the summer of Normally, coaches take talented Today All-American selection big question was 'Do we have his senior year and slipped offensive players and shift them 
very physical, but nobody in the 

enough speed?' It's clear that under the noses of many football over to the defensive side of the Class of 2004 was particularly and is ranked No. 46 on the 
fast. CNNSl.com list of national the strength of this class is the programs. field, but Davie is so excited by prospects. The Irish coaching linebackers." Safety Quentin Burrell, ranked Grant's potential that he insists
Davie was looking to recruit a 

core group of offensive linemen staff is looking at playing LeVoir Brandon Hoyte, Corey Mays, No. 19 nationally by Rivals.com, that the New Jersey player of at either tight end on the offen­Rashon Powers-Neal and Justin rounds out the Irish defensive the year will remain at tailback.
and several speedy defensive backs and wide receivers, and sive line. Tuck all committed to Notre backfield. Burrell committed "He has a chance to be a big­
Massachusetts native Zachary Dame on Wednesday. verbally to the Irish only a week time player," Davie said. 
that's exactly what he ended up Giles is just as good as LeVoir. "I doubt that we've had a bet­ago, but said he chose the school The other players who signeddoing. 

Giles was named to the USA ter group of linebackers than we because of its strong academic letters of intent are wide receiv­
"I don't think you look at just one recruiting class. It kind of Today All-American second got in this class," Davie said. reputation. er Carlos Campbell and running goes in pairs," Davie said. "The team and joined LeVoir on the In particular, Davie spoke The Georgia native had nine backs Cory Jones and Marcus 
Parade All-American team. The highly of linebacker Corey Mays. interceptions his senior year of Wilson.
exciting thing is that you look at 

offensive lineman was also The Chicago native, who has a high school and runs a 4.5 40-Although the possibility existsthe combination of the recruit­4.3 grade point average, clearly yard dash. that a few more players coulding class this year with the class named the player of the year in Massachusetts. drew the attention of the Irish Although Davie wanted to sign sign letters of intent, Davie isn'tlast year and I think we have 
In addition to LeVoir and coaches early. many defensive linemen, he was optimistic that more players willsome good balance. When you commit to the Irish. Instead, he
look at the totality of the last two Giles, Notre Dame also signed "He has great explosiveness satisfied with Jeff Thompson 
l -
highly recruited linemen Darin and great quickness," Davie and Brian Beidatsch. Thompson, said, it is time to turn the focus
years, I think it meshes well 

Mitchell. Matt Root and Dan said. "I really like him." a Granger, Ind. native, was the to getting· the Class of 2005together." 
Stevenson. Mays was a USA Today second second player to verbally com­ready for the future. 
At a press conference 

Aldo De La Garza, who had team All-American and was mit to Notre Dame in June. "Today is an important day,
.'I ' Wednesday afternoon, Davie 
'' verbally committed to the Irish ranked No. 54 among all prep Beidatsch actually committed to but not nearly as important as in
formally announced the 19 play­

in August, did not sign with the players by the Chicago Sun Illinois, but the Irish coaches a year when we see how pro­ers who signed national letters 

Irish on Wednesday as expected. Times. were so impressed by his perfor­ductive these players are," heof intent. The Irish landed a combination of speed in the sec­"He is still going to sign with The biggest addition to the mance at the summer camp that said. "Only time will tell how 
Notre Dame, but he did not sign Irish roster are the three defen-they managed to woo him to good this class is." 
ondary and a talent-loaded 


I 
ii 
I 
' 
l 
, I' 
I 
i. 
ll 
!'. 
Thursday, February 8 

I' 

5:00 p.m.-6:00 p.m. Romance Language Department's Italian Coffee Hour, Decio 131 7:00 p.m. Dr. Cornel West -"It Takes A Village to Plant The Future" -Encore Video Presentation, 129 DeBartolo 
7:30 
p.m. Lecture by Alan Rabinowitz: "Saving the World's Great cats: Jaguars in the Millennium", DeBartolo Hall 101 

7:30 
p.m. "Guys & Dolls" -Musical, Washington Hall* 

7:30 
p.m. "The Achievement of Pope John Paul II", lecture by George Weigel -Hesburgh Library Auditorium 


8:00 
p.m. Blessing Unto Others Talk: "How the Priest Became a Political Scien­tist in Chili" -Reverend Tim Scully, Lafortune Montgomery Theater 

8:00 
p.m. Liss Lecture: "The Suffering and Salvation of God in Classical Judaism", lecture by Michael Fishbane, McKenna Hall Auditorium 


8:30 p.m.-10:30 p.m. Open Rec Lacrosse, Court 1, RSRC 
8:30 p.m.-Midnight ND Express Billiards games open, Lafortune Student Center 
9:00 p.m. Valentine's Day Acoustic cafe, Lafortune Student Center Ballroom 
10:00 p.m. -Midnight Stepan Center: Open Play Basketball and Volleyball 

10:30 p.m. Movie, "The Legend ofBagge Vance: DeBartolo 101*and "Autumn in New York~ DeBartolo155* 

Friday, February 9 
5:00 p.m. Women's Tennis vs. West Virginia, Eck Tennis Pavilion (matches begin at 4:00 p.m.) 
6:00 p.m. -Midnight Stepan Center: Open Play Basketball and Volleyball 
7:00 
p.m. ND Hockey vs Bowling Green, Joyce Center 

7:00 
p.m.-10:00 p.m. Open Rec Badminton, Court 2, RSRC 


7:30 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, "Dancer In The Dark~ Snite Museum* 
7:30 p.m. "Guys & Dolls" -Musical, Washington Hall* 
8:00 p.m.-10:00 p.m. Sophomore Literary Festival: C. K. Williams, reading -Lafortune Student Center Ballroom 
8:00 p.m. Movie, "The legend ofBagger Vance~ DeBartolo 101* & "Autumn in New York: DeBartolo 155* 
8:00 p.m. Blessing Unto Others Festival: "Intuitive Rain" & "The Dunn Brothers", Hesburgh Library Audit.* 
8:30 p.m.-Midnight ND Express Billiards games open, Lafortune Student Center 
9:30 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, "Dancer In The Dark~ Snite Museum* 
10:30 p.m. Movie, "The Legend of Bagger Vance~ DeBartolo 101* & " Autumn in New York: DeBartolo 155* 
This ad is compiled and published by the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune Student Center. 
Saturday, February 10 
5:00 p.m. -Midnight Stepan Center: Open Play Basketball and Volleyball 
7:00 p.m. "Danielle Rose" & "The Dunn Brothers", Blessing Unto Others Festival -Hesburgh Library Audit.* 
7:00 p.m. ND Hockey vs Bowling Green, Joyce Center 
7:30 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, ''Dancer Ji The Dark~ Snite Museum* 
7:30 p.m. "Guys & Dolls" -Musical, Washington Hall 
8:00 p.m. Movie, "The Legend ofBagger Vance: DeBartolo 101* &"Autumn in New York~ DeBartolo 155* 
8:30 p.m.-Midnight ND Express Billiards games open, Lafortune Student Center 
9:00 p.m. NAACP Fonnal: The Fire &Ice Ball -"This Is Your Day", Lafortune Student Center Ballroom* 
9:30 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, ''Dancer Ii The Dark", Snite Museum* 
10:00 p.m. Matthew West, in Concert -Reckers. Free $2.00 food coupons to the first 100 students 
10:00 p.m. Flipside Playground Night, Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 
10:30 p.m. Movie, '7he legend ofBagger Vance: DeBartolo 101* & ''Autumn in New YorK', DeBartolo155* 
*Denotes admission charge for ND/ SMC students. Programs are subject to change without notice. 

_. 
Thursday, February 8, 200 I 
The Observer . TODAY page 27 
TYLER

FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 



Fox TROT 
WHA.T ARE EXAMINING YOU Do1NG? THE "toRD oF THE RtNGS" 
MOVIE TRAILER 
FRAME 8Y 
FRAME~ PIXEL BY PtXE\..

r;~J~ 
WHAT To 8E SURE FoR? THEY'RE STAYING 
J TRuE To THE 8oOICS. I DoN'T WANT HOLLY­WOOO MESSING UP THIS PRolECT 8Y CHANGING THINGS OR CUTTING 
~~~RS. 
i 'l' J"'V""t -' 
ALREADY I FEAR THEY DIDN'T USE REAL UNDEAO RtN&­WRA1THS TO SHOOT THIS oNE SCENE. 
I 
BILL AMEND 

I'M C:,olNG 
To SE IL\..  
I  MY REACTION  
EXACTLY.  
I  



EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 32 Tequila source 63 Put one's two 
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2001 1 Poker variety 33 Spanish "ayes" cents in? CELEBRITIES BORN ON debates that could lead to emo­64 Pre--Communist THIS DAY: Jack Lemmon, James tional turmoil. 00
5 Shape of the 34 Move like goo 
Dean, Lana Turner, Mary Steen-VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22):
Russian ruler

president's office 
38 Famous burgen, Ted Koppel, Alonzo Property investments will finally 9 It might have a 52-Across 65 Golfer Sam Mourning, Nick Nolte, John pay off. Don't hesitate to look Phillips head 66 What "L" stands Grisham, Seth Green into interesting business oppor­
41 Santa's team, 

Happy Birthday: This is a tunities. You can make changes
for in box scores

14 Meddlesome e.g. 
year of change. The more laid-to your living arrangements that 
67 Townshend of

15_Scotia 42 Horse color back and easygoing you are, the will benefit the whole family. A
the Who 

better the results. Adaptability change will lift the spirits of
16 Animal in 43 Group of ships 
will be the secret to your success. those you live with. 000
Qantas ads 
44 Fish with a net This is a year not to worry but to LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22):
DOWN

17 Disturbs take a chance and follow your Don't hang out with eccentric
46 "I beg of you· 

1 Rudely overlook instincts. It's up to you to be open or unpredictable people. Over­
19 Tray containing 
47 Frequent fliers and receptive to every opportuni-indulgence will be your down­
work to do 2 "Beloved" 
ty that comes your way. If you fall. Do not get involved in joint 
20 One who looks 50 "I get itl" author Morrison 
waver, you'll be left behind. Your financial ventures. 00 up when 51 O.C.'s 3 Russia was part numbers: 13, 17, 29, 33, 42, 45 SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): someone yells Pennsylvania of it: Abbr. ARIES (March 21-April 19): A jealous rage may result if your "duck!•? You will be emotional if you mate is trying to back away from
4 Like Easter eggs 

have been extravagant or let you. Stay calm; you can't force
22 Gibbon, e.g. 52 20-Across, to 
5 Recorded children or friends take advan-anyone to love you. Look ahead 23 Photo_ 38-Across 6 Battery units tage of you financially. You and let go of the past. 00 (media events) 59 Mazda model should cliannel your efforts into SAGlITARIUS(Nov;22-Dec.2.1):
7 With: Fr. 

getting rid of bad habits. 000 You need to do something adven­
24 Cites 61 "Fame" singer 
8 Mascara site TAURUS (April 20-May 20): turous.Boredomistheenemy.New
26 Wine order ~•~....,.i,...""' or ....~na le
62 More Refrain from putting demands ..,........... 'fr' ....~---o peopJ
OK,U •
9 Vail trail

30 Mock dishonorable on your partner. You should will help make your day stiinulat­10 Prisoner look over the home-improve-ingandinfonnative. 0000 ment plans that your family CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan.19):
11 Morocco's

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE would like to make. A female You can sign contracts today.
capital 

member of your family will be Don't be too eager to let others in
PUZZie by,..., Gordon
12 Secretly run off difficult to get along with. 00 on your financial status. It is wisetogether 33 Falling flakes 50 Helps with the 55 3-0own, in GEMINI (May 21-June 20): to keep your thoughts to yourself. getaway car, 3-0own You need to spend time with Don't spend unnecessarily. 000
13 Polishes, as a 35 Draftable 
car perhaps close friends. Office politics will AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):
56 Demean, as

36 Marks of Zorro be too much to handle. Don't You may have a change of heart -­18 Half-price ticket 53 Coin of Iran pledges become involved if you wish to regarding your partner. Don't take
37 Art Deco artist 
21 Provide with 57 Part of a.E.D. spare your reputation. 0000 too long to reveal how you feel and gear 39 Love poet's 54 The first CANCER (June 21-July 22): what your future plans are. It's
58 Steak order 

Muse James Bond You can make headway at work. time to get on with your life. 00025 •My Favorite film 60 Drink "for two• Present your ideas and don't PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20):
Year" star 40 Recently 
back down if you get some oppo-Tend to your work and stay 26 Jack or ten 45 Wanted poster sition. Entertain potential clients, away from idle chatter and gos­Ans·Ners to any three clues in this puzzle but don't overspend. 000 sip. You •,vill have to be careful 
word
27 Writer James 

are available by touch•tone phone: LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): while operating equipment. 28 Great review 46 Calls 1-900-420-5656 (e5e per minute). Emotional stress will take over if Chances are good that you'll 47 Door parts you allow others to aggravate reveal secret information if you
AnnuaJ subscriptions are available for the 
you. Do your own thing and aren't careful. Don't allow others 
30 Kind of wave 48 Brand of water best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
refuse to get involved in any to take you for granted. 00 31 Org. '-CJ Make fun of years: 1-888·7-ACROSS. 
Birthday Baby: You p<?SsesS plenty of crea~ve talent that will l_e~d you down interesting pathways throughout life. You have the ~ility to set your own stage and act in a role that becomes you. You are gifted 
and gracious. . 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, 
eugenialasLcom, astromate.com.) 
CJ 2001 Universal Press Syndicate 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 


__. 
DAY FEB. 9TH & ND Ice Scrapers 
r~~~· One Lucky Fan Will Win a 
-
~.,,,.=i .. 

: ;..:., Damon's Gift Certificate l" 
ill< 

; ND em, Bag 
A Sa_int Jo~eph'sl
L .·••utster to win a DVD Plaver & 27' TV .. 'O' Regional Medteal Center ''°" 





Off to a strong start 
Saint Mary's put in a strong first-half performance before . falling 62-46 to Hope.
l page 18 
I 
r"\!HE 
page 28 v~SERVER 
Thursday, February 8, 2001 
FOOTBALL 

Irish rank among top 15 in recruiting, not during season 
struggled in maximizing· their (Oregon State) don't have any­resumes and good reputations. pretty good. But we won't
By TIM CASEY 

talent, the supposedly top tal­body that I've ever heard of. Four of the players (tight end know until August and it'll
Assistant Sports Editor 

ent is overrated or a combina­Oregon State has nobody. And Mark LeVoir, offensive lineman probably be a long time after tion of the aforementioned rea­Notre Dame has All-Americans Zach Giles, offensive lineman that until we know for sure. The Great Debate continues. sons. at every position. It's hard to Dan Stevenson, and linebacker There's just so many things
In the past few years, con­The argument arose once understand." Corey Mays) were named to that have to happen for a play­versation on signing day has again after the Fiesta Bowl. Although he did not intend it, either the Parade or USA er to be productive." centered on why the Irish when Oregon Emfinger's statement proves TODAY All-American squads. During his four years as 
always State, a team See Also the unreliability of the And LeVoir, Mays, Giles and head coach, Davie has seen r a n k 
that has ..experts" ·rankings. Obviously, receiver Carlos Campbell certain players surpass their among the never ranked "Notre Dame the Beavers had some talent. ranked among recruiting ana­high school reputations while 
• top 15 high in th e adds speed with But because their roster was lyst Tom Lemming's top 100 observing others who have schools in recruiting not full of high school All­national prospects. struggled adjusting to the recruiting r a n k i n g s , Class of 2005 Americans, many believed they But even Irish coach Bob faster, more physical college
but then d o m i n ate d recruits" overachieved. Davie admitted that the cur­game. r a r e l y Notre Dame. On the other hand, Notre rent predictions have little sig­The 1998 recruiting class crack the "You tell page 23 Dame's coaching staff has nificance. included a trio of disappoint­same rank-me how been constantly criticized for "We've all been through this ments. Clifford Jefferson was ing in the Davie Oregon State can beat you not correctly utilizing and before," Davie said. "None of considered one of the nation's Associated (Notre Dame) by 40 (actually developing their superior us know exactly what we have, best cornerbacks and was Press and USA TODAY/ESPN 31) points in a bowl game?," recruiting classes. if we're honest. I always refer named first-team USA TODAY polls. There are three basic recruiting ·analyst Max The Irish signed 19 high to it like having that Christmas All-American. Three years schools of thought: either Emfinger said on Tuesday. "I school seniors on Wednesday, present. You•ve got that thing later, Jefferson is arguably the Notre Dame's coaches have can't understand it. They all of whom have impressive wrapped and you think it's 
see RECRUITS/page 23 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Fired up Panthers hang with Irish 
I Laine Selwyn ran circles around 
I I 
. Riley's 29 leads . Better effort the Irish defense, finishing with 23 points. 13 points above her 

Irish past young needed from top­season average.Panther squad ranked team Offensively. the Irish struggled to find a rhythm the entire night. After setting a school record for fewest turnovers in a game at By LIA GARCIA MILHOAN For the third game in a row, Boston College on Saturday with Sports Writer the Irish were unable to build an nine, the Irish handed Pittsburgh early lead. The nation's No. 1 the ball 18 times. team allowed the 9-13 Panthers Point guard Niele Ivey suffered
The Pittsburgh Panthers 

to remain in the game late into a floor burn early in the game, lived up to their motto "40 min­
the second and sustained a deep thigh 
utes of fire" on Wednesday 

half. With bruise in the second half. 
night, refusing to give up as the 9:26 " I thought that mentally she No.1 Irish prevailed 72-58. remaining, had a lot of breakdowns out When Notre Dame coach the ninth­there," McGraw said. place team The couple that successfully 
Muffet McGraw was asked how 

in the Big ran across the court held togeth­her team was handling their East closed er only by the apple that was in
top ranking, she responded, 

to within each of their mouths proved to"Obviously not very well." 
47-41. have a better grasp than the 
That was the story "Overall Irish offense. Wednesday night. The Panthers I'm just After turning the ball over an played with fire and the Irish really dis­all-time low nine times against 
appointed Boston College on Saturday, the fought to stay unbeaten. 
-we have Irish matched that total in theThe first half was marred by to fix it," first half. Power forward Kelleyturnovers and sloppy passing. 
said Irish Siemon committed three of those 
The nine first-half Irish 

head coach first-half miscues. 
turnovers matched their game Muffet Siemon expects more of a total from the Boston College McGraw, home court advantage than the game. showing obvious disappointment. Irish have displayed since upset­
"We just made so many mis­"We're just waiting for somebody ting No. 1 Connecticut. to come beat us, the way that "I think we should have the 
takes, we played like freshmen 

we're playing right now." kind of pride where teams should out there," said McGraw. 
The Catholic middle school come in here and not even bePittsburgh came out in the cheerleaders that helped out on able to score 50," Siemon said. "I 
second half and continued to Tuesday showed more interest in think if we played tomorrow, · I penetrate the Notre Dame the game than the players wear­we'd kill a team by 70. That's I; defense. The lack of a defensive ing the gold uniforms. how mad I feel." 
presence by the Irish was espe­"I think that we played with a Pitt coach Traci Waites 
little bit of a lack of interest at observed her team -playing
cially upsetting to forward 

tim~s -especially defensively," said McGraw. Time and time 
see COLUMN/page 22

see WOMEN/page 20 again Pittsburgh point guard 



Track and Field vs. Bowling Green at Cannon IV '.~< Friday, 7:05 p.m. 
Indianapolis .~
SPORTS 
at West Virginia Friday, 5:30 p.m. 

ATA Sunday, 2 p.m. vs. Virginia Tech vs. Duke 
•
(!) Friday, 4 p.m . ti) Saturday, noon
GLANCE ­
., 


Observer Endorsement 
Look in Viewpoint to see why The Observer's Editorial Board believes Ryan Becker and Nikki McCord are the best choice to head up ND's 2001-2002 student government.
Thursday, February 8, 2001 A look inside the issues and candidates in this year's campaign 
·t­
i . 
I 
' 
t 

HAT VOTERS 

By LAURA ROMPF 
Assistant News Editor 
Wednesday afternoon, four junior girls sat in LaFortune at a table near Burger King. They had pens in hand; notebooks and papers scattered all around, and were working on a group project for their Air Force ROTC class. 
Just upstairs. on the second floor, the student government office was also busy. The secretary was on the phone. judicial council officials dealt with elec­tion matters, and several students fil­tered in and out. 
Despite the student government office being physically close, the four girls, Julie Skluzacek, Andrea Renaud, Erica Walter and Vivian Ryan. said they felt removed student government. 
"I don't really know what student gov­ernment does throughout the year.'' Skluzacek said. "So I voted for you, but what did you do?" 
Because student body elections are right around the corner, questions arise about what students are looking for in a president and vice president. Are issues or personality traits more important? Does campaigning, having a male/female balanced ticket, or race effect how a student will vote? 

What are students looking for? 
From increasing diversity to improv­ing gender relations, this year's candi­dates have attempted to address issues that effect the Notre Dame community. 
"I like the idea of bringing the prices in the bookstore down," said freshman Marcos Sosa. 
"On some posters, I've seen the idea to extend weekday parietals to 1 a.m.," said freshman Alex Roodhouse. "I think that's a good idea." 
Other students asked for more phones around campus for security. a third food service plan, Flex 10, cable TV and a monorail system. 
Some students felt many campaign promises were used simply to get votes, but in actuality would never be accom­plished. 
"A lot of the goals seem unrealistic," said Ryan. "They are promising to do a lot that they have no control over." 

Walter agreed, saying a promise to open the stadium for concerts was deceptive. "I've heard these before. They are things that just won't hap­pen." 
Junior Marc Nuno said he isn't con­centrating on issues such as parietals, food or football tickets, but the dedica­tion of the candidates. 
"I don't want some who will start strong and end up squeaking through at the end," Nuno said. "I'd rather have someone with a few good ideas who will do ·everything in their power to get those things done." 
Who are students looking for? 
When asked what personality traits are most important in a student body president, students quickly answered everything from being approachable, to relaxed, to sincere to having integrity. 
"I want someone who is willing to represent the student body, not focus on their own ideas," Skluzacek said. 
"It shouldn't be someone who is stuck on their own ideas," Renaud added. 

NT 
"They have to be open to what students want." 
Senior Emmett Malloy said despite the personality traits of a student body president or vice president, student government is often ineffective because of the University's administration. 
"Their personality doesn't seem to matter because they can't do much," Malloy said. ·'They have to follow what the administration is telling them to do. Their jobs seems to have minimal impact, they could be chimp and it wouldn't matter." 
Nuno said a student body president has to be a good leader. He said if the president is too head strong, he will try to handle every issue himself, and thus be ineffective. 
"A good leader delegates," Nuno said. "If you have too many things on your shoulders, you won't do a good job." 
Nearly every student interviewed said they want a stu_dent body president who is easily approachable and will listen to concerns. 
see CHOICE/page 4 


page 2  page 3  page 4  
Demetra Smith/Y ogeld Andre  Holt Zeidler/Allison Henisey  Candidates on the  
Brooke Norton/Brian Moscona  Ryan Becker/Nikki McCord  Issues: Cheers, Jeers,  
Chris Zimmerman/ Andy Nelson  Maureen GottliebNictoria Fetterman  and Polite Applause  

LL.2..> 
page 2 The Observer . ELECTION 2001 Thursday, February 8, 2001 
Demetra Smith 
President 


In Their Words 

. 
Top Priority: Calling for a new and increased financial aid plan, the ticket's "Investing in Minds" program aims to offer scholarships to students based on demonstrated leadership and service activity. By granting funds to these students. the ticket hopes to allow them to focus on social action and leadership development. 

. 
What They Can Accomplish First: Smith and Andre are confident that they can turn the pilot "Dinner With Seven Strangers" program into a popular campus-wide event quickly after taking office. The MSPS­sponsored program brings seven diverse people together to cook dinner and discuss issues. The ticket plans to promote the event and convince students it is a worthwhile experience. 


In Our Words 

. 
Best Idea: To ensure a living wage for University employees. An ambitious goal. the ticket plans to work with the CLC, administration and outside social groups to determine what a living wage is for South Bend and how the University can meet that wage for all employees. 

. 
Worst Idea: The ticket has no bad ideas, as all plans aim to improve social justice causes in and around campus. Lack of feasibility and idealism will prove to make many ideas unsuccessful in the time period provided. 

. 
Most Feasible Idea: Monthly Community Hot Topics Forums designed to create organized dialogues about current campus issues should be fairly easy to get up and running. 

. 
Least Feasible Idea: It is unlikely that efforts to reduce text book prices and revise the current book buy back policy by negotiating with multi-million-dollar Follett will be successful. 

. 
Fun Fact: Both juniors, Smith and Andre met last year while studying abroad in Angers, France. 

. 
Notable Quote: "Ifwe tell the administration we're only capable of handling a certain type of issue, that's all we're going to get," said Smith. · 


The Bottom Line The Smith/Andre ticket should be commended for tackling many lofty social justice issues. but its limited time in office might preclude them from accomplishing many goals on their platform. The ticket has failed to demonstrate a focus on issues of broader appeal to students, such as football ticket distribution. 
In Their Words Brooke Norton 
. Top priority: Based upon door-to-door surveys, Norton and Moscona set cable in dorm rooms as their 
President 

primary long-term initiative. They say cable would provide students with a plethora of entertainment options and eventually educational opportunities through student produced television shows. 
. What they can accomplish first: The ticket believes their first initiative will be the creation of a Student Services Center on campus to organize life skills seminars, which they term Life 101: Seminars for the Real World. The seminars would address topics like self defense, car maintenance, communication in relationships and cooking. 
In Our Words 
. 
Best Idea: Taking baby steps toward most students' dream come true, the Norton/Moscona ticket offers further research into 1 a.m. parietals. Although alterations of du Lac seem unlikely, the effort is worthwhile. 

. 
Worst Idea: Attempts to add an all-school dance to the Founder's Day celebration would most likely encounter significant student apathy and major logistical problems. 

. 
Most Feasible Idea: The pair's "Clean Up Your Own Backyard" idea, designed as a beautification project surrounding the campus lakes, would be simple to implement and could yield immediate results. 

. 
Least Feasible Idea: Norton and Moscona's plan to host a hip-hop concert to encourage attendance at diversity events has good intentions, but finding a qualified artist, the necessary funds and University approval for the controversial concert could prove too difficult a task. 

. 
Fun Fact: The two met when Norton served as freshman class council liason, a position Moscona now holds. 

. 
Notable Quote: "My personality is strong behind the scenes," said Norton. ''I've been a grounding force in the current administration and ... I'm ready for the challenge." 


The Bottom Line 
Norton and Moscona have an ambitious agenda, but seem unable to prioritize their initiatives. While Norton has the experience and skills for the Office of the President, both Norton and Moscona have difficulty articulating their goals. 

Chris Zimmerman 
President 


In Their Words 
. 
Top priority: With a concern about the bureaucratic nature of the current configuration of student government, Zimmerman/Nelson want to eliminate the Student Senate and make Hall Presidents' Council the central governing body on campus. 

. 
What they can accomplish first: By increasing the number of all-campus Masses from one to four during the academic year, the ticket aims to "foster a spirit of religion at Notre Dame." 


In Our Words 

. 
Best Idea: Increasing the number of all-campus Masses from one to four. including one at the beginning and end of each semester, is a politically popular and attainable goal. 

. 
Worst Idea: The Campus Life Council is at a critical juncture in its existence. and a responsible administration should be able to effectively tap the power that this body wields. Instead, Zimmerman/Nelson want to scrap the current configuration of student government all together. Streamlining the government is a great idea, but any such efforts should seek to streamline to where the greatest power lies. 

. 
Most Feasible Idea: Increasing all-campus Masses might not be ambitious, but it's a nice community­building exercise. Because Notre Dame prides itself on its faith community, this idea should meet with little opposition from administrators or students. 

. 
Least Feasible Idea: Lobbying for the same average GPA among all colleges is not only implausible, but ill-informed. Asking colleges to adjust academic requirements and standards to level GPAs compromises the academic integrity of the University and students' degrees. 

. 
Fun Fact: The two are roommates in Fisher Hall, where Zimmerman serves as a section representative. 

. 
Notable Quote: "They basically have to vote to eliminate themselves," said Nelson about the Senate's role in the ticket's restructuring plan. 


The Bottom Line 
The pair says they have spoken to five or six senators regarding their plans to restructure student government and reports that senators are open to discussion. Let's get real -few people are going to vote to put themselves out of a job. These guys need to learn to work within the system. 
• 
<E.3)

Thursday, February 8, 200 I 
The Observer . ELECTION 2001 
page 3 

In Their Words 
. Top Priority: The ticket wants to enhance the overall student experience at Notre Dame by bringing an off­
campus atmosphere to campus. They propose to do this by adding an eight lane bowling alley and sports bar to the Alumni-Senior Club. 
. What They Can Accomplish First: Zeidler and Henisey said installing telephones in campus parking lots could be done relatively quickly and would address safety concerns. 
In Our Words 
~ Best l~ea: Phon~s in ~a~pus _parking lots will increase the safety of both students and faculty, and can likely be mstalled with mm1mal time and expense. This will increase communication between students and campus security. 
~ Worst lde_a: While so?ial space is a valid concern at the University, many students would rather be knock­mg down d:mks tha? pms. Bowling facilities may diminish the Alumni-Senior Club's appeal as a bar. and problems with state liquor laws may make implementation tricky. 
. Most Feasible Idea: Notre Dame alumni are well known for their commitment of time and resources to 
their alma mater. This generosity makes the ticket's plan to work with the Career Center to establish and alumni mentoring program a realistic goal. 
. Least Feasible Idea: Supposing that even half of the University's 8,000 undergraduates turn out, Zeidler 
and Henisey will have trouble finding a place to put them all. No on-campus venue can accomodate such a large dance, and South Bend offers few options. 
. 
Fun Fact: In addition to being friends, Zeidler and Henisey are both engineering majors. " . 

. 
Notable Quote: Zeidler say being student body peresident is nothing he. can't handle. According to the Keough Hall president, "It's like being the head of one big dorm." 


The Bottom Line ~~ile this t_icket ha~ ~ood intentions, the platform's feasibility is questionable at best. When it comes to being ms1stent with admm1strators about platform goals. Henisey claims the ticket is willing to be the squeaky wheel. but don't expect them to get the ball rolling until they've done their homework on the issues. 
-

Holt Zeidler 
President 
-.. 



Ryan Becker In Their Words 
. Top Priority: Becker and McCord have done research on cutting bookstore prices. making this imposssible 
President 

goal look plausible. Their ideas include a 3 to 5 percent student discount on text books, talking to Faculty Senate to encourage communication and, if those fail. working with NDToday.com to expand the online book swap. 
. What They Can Accomplish First: The ticket will implement a department to plan non-alcoholic events the first day they take office. Combining several campus groups, they hope to plan events students will enjoy and to provide different options for entertainment on and ofT campus. 
In Our Words 

. 
Best Idea: SafeRide has failed for the past two years, but the Becker/McCord ticket has a fresh idea: send vans to popular student hang-outs to pick up students instead of waiting for calls. It makes you wonder, --:-­"Why h_asn't anyone thought of this before?" 

. 
Worst Idea: Of course students, especially those on North Quad, would love for Reckers to deliver. But if Reckers can't get a pizza to someone in the restauraunt in a short time, how will it send a golf cart across campus to deliver the pizza while it's still edible? 

. 
Most Feasible Idea: Becker and McCord want the Campus Ufe Council to be more in touch with students. They will add more students by dividing the campus into equal sections and electing representatives from each. 

. 
Least Feasible Idea: It seems like a reasonable idea to give students more football tickets for away games, but the administration is determined to give them to alumni. 

. 
Fun Fact: Becker was the co::.chair of the Senate Residence Life commitete that brought cereal to Grab 'n' Go and a mailbox to LaFortune. 

. 
Notable Quote: "We're here now. Let's take advantage of it," said Becker. 


The Bottom Line 

The Becker/McCord platform addresses issues that concern students and plans to solve them in a realistic 
manner. The ticket is experienced, enthusiastic and determined, but they may be overly ambitious and 
unable to complete their goals. 
In Their Words 
. 
Top Priority: Gottleib and Fetterman are intent on making Notre Dame a more welcoming campus by pro­viding universal access to residence halls. Their plan would allow any student with a valid University identification card to access all dorms. 

. 
What They Can Accomplish First: The ticket expresses a concern for on-campus safety and say they can address this issue quickly by installing better lighting and more call boxes around campus. 


In Our Words 
. 
Best Idea: The proposed lighting and call boxes highlight a real concern at Notre Dame. While some may label this attention to safety as a women's issue, this idea goes a long wan in improving on-campus life for all University students and guests, male or female. 

. 
Worst Idea: Someone should have yelled ..Fore!" at Gottlieb and Fetterman before they came up with this idea. Golf cart shuttles from the parking lots to campus? Students are going to class, not downtown South Bend. 

. 
Most Feasible Idea: In addition to universal access to dorms, the ticket is also pushing its idea of consis­tent security rules among dorms. This especially applies to 24-hour space discrepancies in male and female dorms. Achieving parity is feasible, especially since the Student Senate has already targeted this concern. 

. 
Least Feasible Idea: Grab 'N' Go in DeBartolo looks good on a poster, especially to studetns with a full day of classes and little time for lunch. But can studetns expect Gottlieb and Fetterman to deliver? Administrators don't want anyone bringing food into DeBartolo, much less serving it there. 

. 
Fun Fact: The sophomores are not only friends, but have been debate partners for over a year. 

. 
Notable Quote: Although Gottlieb and Fetterman make up the only all-female ticket, they are shying away from a campaign that focuses on their gender and women's issues. "[Our] gender is not the issue. We would much rather have our qualifications acknowledged," Gottlieb said. 


The Bottom Line Gottlieb and Fetterman don't have the experience necessary lead student government. \Vhile they have made a point not to campaign on their gender, the two have impressive ideas that may fall under the purview of women's issues. They would do well to acknowledge that and to work with whomever is elected to these concerns. 
Maureen Gottlieb 
President 


Thursday, February 8, 200 I 

The Observer . ELECTION 2001 
Candidates on the Issues: Cheers, Jeers and Polite Applause  On the Campus Life Council  On Founder's Day  On football ticket distribution  On ND/SMC student relations  On social and 24-hour space  
Smith Andre  .,,, ~ Plans to use CLC to implement their social action platform  IDDEJ Aim to increase student participation. but lack specific plans for doing so  IDa:a They must be ready to attack this issue April 1 but did not yet have a plan  Suggest increased communication. but fail to offer a specific plan of action  Did not have immediate plan but promised to look into the issue  
Norton Moscona  Would maintain the status quo in terms of structure. but work to reduce redundency  Move Founder's Day to a non-football weekend so JACC can be used in case of rain  ~ ~ Propose to create task forces and committees to examine options  Suggest increased communication, but fail to offer a specific plan of action  ,, 'M. ~ Renovate LaFortune to include specialty food restauraunts and an SYR gift shop Renovate Lafortune; send student govern­ment and club offices to Bronson Hall  
Zimmerman Nelson  Propose to eliminate CLC and transfer its functions to more powerful HPC  ,, ~ Instead of having three carnivals per year, combine funds for one big bash  Joke about a football IQ test to give best fans the best seats, but no genuine plan  I~ Suggest increased communication, but fail to offer a specific plan of action  
Zeidler Henisey  Q one Would maintain the status quo in terms of structure, but work to reduce redundency  It:;JaE.l Aim to increase student participation, but lack specific plans for doing so  They must be ready to attack this issue April 1 but they did not yet have a plan  I~ Suggest increased communication, but fail to offer a specific plan of action  Convert senior bar into an eight-lane bowling alley and restauraunt  

 '  •  ,,,  ,,,.  

~ Onf3 \\iiill9 
Standardize dorm

Suggests elected Aim to increase Propose to create Initiate---an ND/SMC representatives from student participation, task forces and retreat; ask SMC 24-hour space; start sections of campus but lack specific committees to input on women's student businesses in sit on Council plans for doing so examine_ options issues Lafortune basement 
Becker McCord 



,,,,
,,,.

I
oaa oaa liiiill
~ 
•

Obtain tickets Suggest increased Create equal accessWould maintain the Aim to increase 
communication, but to dorms and
status quo in terms of student participation, through a mail order fail to offer a specific uniform 24-hour
structure, but work but lack specific system that allows Gottlieb 
Fetterman to reduce redundency plans for doing so friends to sit together plan of action space rules 
Choice

,I 
continued from page l 
"I want to see a leader with energy," said freshman Mike Bott. 
"I need someone who's artic­ulate and can speak well in public," added Roodhouse. 
Who will get the vote? 
Every student interviewed said the candidates' race and gender would not determine how they cast their ballot. 
"If the two girls have what I'm looking for, I'd vote for them," said Skluzacek. "Gender and race are definitely not issues." 
However, all agreed cam­paigning is important. "I don't have time to go to 

the debates," said Renaud. "I do read the posters, and think the taller, more professional ones are effective." 
Nuno said having a broad platform that addresses several issues will be the determining factor on where he places his vote. 
"I don't want the platform designed simply to get votes. I want a candidate that listens to what people say and represent the student body," Nuno said. 
Sosa, Bott and Roodhouse said because they are fresh­men, they aren't sure about all the issues, but look to the posters to see the different ideas. 
"I will base my vote on their 
ideas and platforms," said Bott. 
Ryan agreed, saying the 
posters are helpful, but added 
the Web sites are also a good place to find information. 
"The emails can be annoying, but at least you can go back and read them later." Ryan said. 
Malloy said having a bal­anced ticket is important to represent the needs of the entire student body. 
"l think you should have one guy and one girl, because then you have the two sides of the coin," Malloy said. 
The Bottom Line 
By Wednesday night, the four girls had left the table by Burger King and were busy in other activities. Simultaneously, all of the can­didates for student body presi­dent and vice president were explaining their platform and ideas during a debate in the Library Auditorium. 
Each ticket said they want to represent the student body and address the students' concerns. Each said they would listen to what the students want and need. And each said they would work with the adminis­tration to make their promises a reality instead of far-fetched 
vows. 

Nuno said he hopes the new administration will follow through with their commitment to the student body once elect­ed. 
"The president and vice pres­ident are there to represent the student body," he said. "We can't go and argue for what we want, but if they are approach­able and listen to our ideas, they can tell the administration and supervisors what we are looking for, and hopefully do something for the students." 
ELECTION SECTION CONTRIBUTORS: 
Writing and Editing: 
MIKE CONNOU.Y NOREEN GILLESPIE JASON MCFARLEY MOLLY MCVOY KATE NAGENGAST 
LAURA ROMPF 
KERRY SMITH 
Photography: 
ANGELA CAMPOS NAOMI CORDELL TONY FLOYD CHRISTINE KRALY PETER RICHARDSON 
Design and Production: 
ANNE MARIE MATTINGLY 

.( ,! 



