
Remembering a dream 
Winning on the playground 
Monday
Scene looks at this week's events on campus 
The Irish men used hustle to win a catfight over 
honoring the slain civil rights leader Martin 
J,Vest Virginia that looked more like a WWF 
Luther King, Jr. 
match than an NCAA men ·s basketball game. 
JANUARY 22, 
section . page 10-11 
sports . page 15 
2001 


VOL XXXIV NO. 70 
• Bush sworn in, calls for compassion, civility in government 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
George W. Bush offered his "solemn pledge" on Saturday to govern compassionately and "work to build a single nation of justice and opportunity," addressing the nation after one of the closest elections in American history. 
In his· inaugural speech, Bush outlined his priorities, promoting what had been major campaign themes: edu­cational reform, overhauling Social Security and Medicare, a stronger defense and a tax cut "to recover the momentum of our economy." 
Bush's remarks lasted 15 minutes in a light drizzle, interrupted .14 times by applause, usually brief but accompanied by cheers when he spoke of taxes and defense. 
There was just one minor slip of the tongue; after a cam­paign in which he occasionally was derided for tortured syn­tax and flubbed lines. When he came to a line about the "ways" in which he would act, he said "days," then immedi­ately corrected himself. 
He borrowed a theme sound­ed 12 years earlier by his father when he took office: a call for more volunteerism and community service. 
"Compassion is the work of a nation, not just a government," Bush said. 
"I ask you to be citizens. 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


A new era begins 
. Bush plans to kick off term with tax cut campaign, faces challenges 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The Bush administration gets off to a heady start this week with promotion of the president's $1.6 trillion tax plan in the Senate. President Bush picked up a Democratic sponsor, but also got Democratic warnings that he faces trouble if he ignores their priorities. 
Bush must also deal with the insistence of his former rival for the GOP presidential nomination, Sen. John McCain, that campaign finance be one of the first items on the congressional agenda. 
The Arizona senator and his Democratic ally, Sen. Russell Feingold of Wisconsin, are to introduce their bill lim­iting campaign contributions on Monday, and Bush is to confer with McCain on Wednesday. 
Also on Monday, Bush is expected to meet with con­gressional Republican lead­ers. Separately. Senate Citizens, not spectators. justice and compassion; to call popular vote. opened by Banking Committee Chairman Citizens, not subjects. for responsibility, and try to observing that a "peaceful Phil Gramm, H-Texas, joined Responsible citizens, building live it as well," Bush said. transfer of authority is rare in by Sen. Zell Miller, D-Ga., are 
communities of service and a He promised a "new commit­history, yet common in our announcing plans to intro­
nation of character," Bush ment to live out our nation's country." duce Bush's massive 10-year 
said. promise through civility, "With a simple oath, we tax relief proposal. White "I will live and lead by these courage, compassion and char­affirm old traditions, and make House aides said the details 
principles: to advance my con­acter." new beginnings," he said. of that across-the-board tax 
victions with civility, to pursue Bush, the first president in He thanked outgoing cut proposal should emerge 
the public interest with more than a century to take 
courage; to speak for greater office without also winning the see SPEECH/page 6 see AGENDA/page 6 

New weights at Rockne bring old gym into new century 
By MEG DADAY 
News Writer 
It is a long, cold walk to the RecSports Center from the dorms on South Quad. 
Until recently, students living in these dorms had few options when it came to exercising: face the weather and the lines · for machines, but use state-of­the-art equipment, or go to the Rockne Memorial and use ancient machinery. 
Inconvenience and out-of­date machinery are no longer valid excuses. The Hockne Memorial now has the latest weight lifting equipment in the upstairs weight room and the downstairs exercise room. 

"/ always wanted the Rock to be better because it's so convenient and now they have good machines.,. 
Caroline Craft junior 
which also features new car­diovascular machines and three television sets. 
"I always wanted the Rock to be better," said Caroline Craft, a junior and resident of Pangborn Hall. Craft, who used to work out at Rolfs, now goes to the Rock consistently "because it's so convenient and now they have good machines." 
Kristin Wunder, also a junior. agreed.. 
"I think it's really nice," she said. "Especially in the winter, because now we don't have to go all the way to Rolfs just to use nice stuff.·• 
That nice stuff was paid for with some of the University's general funds. 
"The University set up a renewal fund to raise money for various projects and part of that money was allocated to pay for the renovations of the Rock. said Brother Louis Hurcik, facilities manager of the building. Hurcik said that although suggestions had been made for improvements for a 
see ROCK/page 4 




page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Monday, January 22, 200 I 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Senior words ofwisdom 
Many say that I should be sad and scared. A couple of years ago I would agree with them. Now I would tell them that I'm glad and that I'm ready to go. 
I ran into some friends the other night in a trendy night spot that shall remain nameless. I had not seen them in a while. We have been friends since the start and I have often considered them family. Both told me that they did not want this year to end. They wanted this to last forever. 
You see this is our last semester as undergrads. After May we go our sepa­rate ways and begin our lives. One is going to Med school, Congratulations!. close to home. Another is going to work in Chicago. I'm the big loser of the group. I don't have a job, let alone an idea of what I want to do in the future. But even then. I'm ready to go on. 
Someone told me some time ago that these are the best years of my life.-How do they know? I plan to have a family, a nice house and a job. Why keep living if these are the best years and everything after is downhill? When we look ahead, we often look at the next couple of months. I like to look years ahead. I'm not that worried about where I'm going to live. I'm more worried about my health in five years. Will I be happy with my job?, with my life? 
I know that leaving this place will be hard. It's hard enough during breaks. This place really grows on you. After three and a half years of living here one ends up calling it home. My sisters give me a hard time when I do call it home. 
When I do go home, home home, I'll call some of my friends and hang out with them. When I'm home, it feels that time stood still for us. Not so much stood still as it froze entirely. It's like we never left and that grad­uation was a couple of days ago. I'm sure that this has happened to you. 
So to all of you that are still reading and I commend you for that know that after you leave, your friends will always be there. Five years can pass before you run into a friend. By then who knows what has changed. Family, kids, travel, a job might now be a part of the picture. You'll talk. You'll laugh. You'll exchange pictures, email addresses, phone numbers so that you can get in touch next time you are in town, stories about how little Joey began soccer. Your only limit is time. 
Time rules our lives, there is no way of get­
ting out of that one. The one thing it does not 
rule is a true friendship. So to all you seniors 
out there: Don't be sad. It's all good. So what 
if we might have wrinkles on our face the 
next time we see each other. The most impor­
tant thing is that our friendship is alive and 
kicking like the last time we saw each other. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News  Scene  
Tim Logan  Jacqueline Browder  
Nicole Haddad  Graphics  
Finn Pressly  Jose Cuellar  
Sports  Production  
Kathleen O'Brien  Brian Kessler  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Lila Haughey  Ernesto Lacayo  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member ofthe Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Monday  Tuesday  
. Symposium: "The Living  . Lecture: "Transforming  
Wage in Catholic  Politics into Constitutions:  
Teaching: Economic  The Politic of  
Justice for All," Todd  Constitution-Making in  
David Whitmore, associate  Colombia and Venezuela,"  
professor, theology.  Ana Maria Bejarano, C- 
Auditorium, Hesburgh  104 Hesburgh Center,  
Institute, 7 p.m.  12:30 p.m.  
OUTSIDE THE DOME  

U. Houston faces sexual harassment lawsuits 
HOUSTON 

A federal judge has ordered the parties involved in a University of Houston-related sexual harassment lawsuit to attempt to reach a settle­ment through arbitration. 
Susan Septimus, a former attorney in the Office of the General Counsel at UH, filed a federal lawsuit in September claiming she was denied a promotion based on her gender and was "constructively discharged" in retaliation for complaining about the discrimination. 
Septimus is one of three women who made official complaints that General Counsel Dennis Duffy creat­ed a "hostile and .abusive" work environment for female employees in the office. A study conducted in early 
UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA 
Nursing group witnesses quake 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. 
The earthquake that rocked El Salvador on Saturday created aftershocks felt as far as Charlottesville. Eleven members of the University of Virginia commu­nity finally arrived home safely on Tuesday, after being trapped in the South American nation while awaiting a flight to the United States. The group, which included seven nursing students, a medical stu­dent, an undergraduate history student, a sociology graduate student and a faculty member, was in El Salvador representing the University in Nursing Students Without Borders, a program dedicated to improving health care in impoverished nations. The group arrived at the airport near San Salvador, El Salvador's capital. on Jan. 3 and traveled to their base of operations in San Sebastian, a small village two hours drive from the capital. While in San Sebastian, the group educated local teachers on issues including reproductive health and personal hygiene, according to fourth-year nursing student Esther Miller. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast A<X:1.1Weatrer Lecast fa-daytirre conditions and high teITµTJlures 
'\ / 
\ / 
\ I 
~ 
Tuesd,yI i 
I 


Wedn sday 

FRONTS:
..._._

Friday ......... •e •
0 2001 A.ccuWNlher, Inc. COl.0 WARM STATIQ(\/ARY
. 

·Satuiday
~-~f'~) \
,,.,...,;····,.• 

4,Q,~':9,@Q (I:~~ 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sumiy Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via A-..i.dp,...ar.,,hic,Nel 

1998 by attorney Deborah McElvaney concluded that "women in the OGC had been subjected to discriminatory, hostile environment" and that Septimus was indeed denied the promotion based on her gender. 
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN 
Trial continues, diversity stressed 
DETROIT In what he later called a "rare" appearance on the wit­ness stand, University of Michigan President Lee Bollinger stressed the educational value of diversity for the student body as he testified Thursday to defend the use of race in admissions in the University's Law School. Ile said that "law is so interwoven in life" that the law school class­room needs to reflect as many-diverse experiences as possible. This, he said, is crucial to the breadth and depth : of a law student's education. Bollinger, who served as dean of the University's Law School from 1987 to 1994,
r 

was the University's first witness in its defense againstI the Center for Individual Rights' attack on the Law 
~ 

School's race-sensitive admissions policy. The
I Washington, D.C.-based law firm filed the case against the Law School on behalf of Barbara Grutter. a white
I applicant who was rejected from the Law School in 1997. Bollinger said while he was dean he charged a committee to develop a policy which would bring together a class of students that represented a variety of perspectives. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 

The AccuWeathere forecast for noon,Monday, Jan. 22. 
l'l'Ns&n: 
.

® © D . D D CJ D. •·. 
H~h Low Showen fljfln T•tto""" Flurrtu Snow le• Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
V.A.Noa.a'9dPrw• 

Atlanta 45 28 Las Vegas 59 36 Portland 50 38 Baltimore 39 24 Memphis 49 33 Sacramento 57 39 Boston 29 26 Milwaukee 32 2:/ St. Louis 39 30 Chicago 33 27 New York 37 24 Tampa 58 43 Houston 58 39 Philadelphia 36 24 Washington 39 25 
Wednesday 

. 
film: "La Estrategia del Caracol." Hesburgh Center Auditorium, 7 p.m. 

. 
Student panel: "Colors of the World," moderated by Rev. Timothy R. Scully, C.S.C., Hesburgh Library Auditorium, 6 p.m. 


Despite that report and multiple findings from the federal Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. the only official action taken against Duffy was a suggestion that he undergo sensitivity training. 
In a ruling on the September law­suit, federal District Judge Vanessa Gilmore ordered that Septimus and the University participate in "non­binding mediation ... where the par­ties will attempt to resolve their dif­ferences." 
Gilmore appointed San Antonio attorney Phil Pfeiffer of the firm Fulbright & Jaworski to be the medi­ator. The mediation is to be conduct­ed within 90 days of the ruling, and the results wm be reported within 10 days of its conclusion. 
Thursday 

. Prayer Seivice: "Mustard Seed Faith," reflections by Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C., University president, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Holiday Celebration 2001, Keenan-Stanford Chapel, 7p.m. 
Compiled from U.Wire reports 


----------------------------------------------------------------------1111 
Monday, January 22, 2001 page 3
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
WNDU wins Gabriel award for community involvement 
By KRISTEN FITZPATRJCK News Writer  The awards committee looks for the ability to uplift and nourish the human spirit, the  "It actually took the partic­ipation of every single mem­ber of our staff to make it [the  tion's parldng lot. WNDU-TV also took on a project entitled "Our House."  "Toastin' Fr. Ted," which hon­ored Father Theodore Hesburgh, University presi­ 
single most important criteri­ Gabriel  Award]  happen,"  The year-long project took on  dent emeritus. Life Treatment  
The National Association of  on  of  a  Pierce  said.  the  task  of remodeling  a  Centers is a non-profit organi­ 
Catholic Communicators recently awarded local TV sta­tion WNDU-TV. the NBC affili­ate for the Michiana area, the prestigious Gabriel Award, and honored the station as  Gabriel. The judges seek those pro­grams that affirm human dignity and  "It actually took the participation of every single member ofour staffto make it happen. "  "That's say­ing a lot about this remarkable company. We are all very  house in a dilapidated inner city South Bend neighborhood. The project recognized the importance of neighborhoods in a community and pooled together the resources of the  zation in South Bend which assists individuals who suffer from drug and alcohol addic­tions and do not have the funds to find treatment at other facilities.  
"Television Station  of the  impress  the  proud."  staff and management of the  Jim Behling. president and  
Year."  importance of  Lou Pierce  WNDU-TV  station, as  well  as The Near  general manager of WNDU-TV  
The Gabriel Award recog­ the communi­ director of audience  was  recog­ Northwest  Neighborhood  received the award  on  behalf  
nizes one television or radio station in the United States or Canada for its outstanding  ty. Lou Pierce, director of  development and programming WNDU-TV  nized for three commu­nity efforts.  Association, South Bend Heritage Foundation, the City of South Bend and many other  of the station in a ceremony on Sept. 30, 2000 in Orlando, Fla. Individual awards were  
achievement in both total pro­ audience  The  first  is  companies, organizations and  also  presented  to  CBS's  
gramming and its commitment  development and program­ a"Toys for Tots" drive the sta­ volunteers.  "Touched by an Angel," ABC's  
to community service. The judges for the award review a broadcaster's work in serving the community over -a 12­month period.  ming for WNDU-TV, cited the commitment to the community of all the members of the sta­tion as the reason the station stood out among all the rest.  tion holds a every year. The drive helps to gather toys for Michiana's less fortunate youngsters and the drive is broadcast live from the sta- Finally, the station helped to raise over a quarter of a mil­lion dollars for South Bend's Life Treatment Centers through an event entitled  "20/20" and "Dateline NBC." The runner-up-for "Television Station of the Year" was WCVB-TV, an ABC affiliate in Boston, Mass.  

Tired of living in that cramped dorm SMC names new room or the same old apartment? 
special events head 
come to Saint Mary's" he said. 
Special to The Observer 
"The College is growing and changing, and everyone here is Saint Mary's recently named enthusiastic about the momen­
Live in Oak Hill next year! 
Richard Baxter, the former tum." executive director at Baxter served as executive Colorado's creede Repertory director at Colorado's Creede
Two Bedroom/two bathroom townhouse for sale. Theater, to the position of spe­Repertory Theatre from 1983 to cial events director. 2000. During this time he pro­
Includes fireplace, patio and community pool. 
"The more I investigated, the duced more than 100 plays and more excited I became," directed more than 50 plays. 
Just two minutes from campus! Please call Erica or 
Baxter said. "The campus itself Baxter is a graduate of the was a big attraction. It is so University of Utah and the
Kyle at (315) 641-1927 for further information. 
peaceful here." leadership development pro­Baxter looks forward to his gram at the Center for involvement with Saint Mary's. Creative Leadership in 
"This is an exciting time to Colorado Springs. 



Got your eyes peeled for a great career opportunity? It'll be right under your nose soon. KPMG will be nearby looking for new talent. If you want to work with global clients, on innovative professional serv­ices projects, in a culture that rewards individuality, then make sure we see you while we're in the neighborhood. It'll open your eyes to a whole new future. 
We ere an Equal Opporrunity E~er. m'f/d/v. 02000 KPMG LLP. !he U.S. rrwnbef firm of KPMG lnternalional. 
Monday, January 22, 2001 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
bring the old equipment to other places and bring the new
Rock 
equipment in," Jennifer 
continued from page 1 
number of years, a major impe­tus for action was a vote by the Student Senate last spring to upgrade the facility. 
The changes did not come until last semester. Over fall break, new cardiovascular machines, weight lifting equip­ment, and television sets were put into the lower weight room. 
Since the improvements were made, use of this room has increased 25 percent. 
During the Christmas break, the upper weight room received new equipment and new light­ing, the racquetball courts were renovated, and the gym floor was sanded. According to Hurcik, a few machines are due to arrive this week; however, the upper weight room is open. 
Hurcik estimates that most of the old equipment was pur­chased in the 1970s and 80s. 
"It's an earlier generation of Nautilus that was sturdy and able to be kept up," he said. "We never had any problems." 
Because the equipment is still useable and in good condition despite its age, it was dispersed to various dorms. 
"It was a great experience to Phillips, assistant fitness direc­tor, said. 

According to Phillips, the biggest difference between the older strength machines and the newer ones is the fact that the older versions were not designed to accommodate peo­ple of different sizes. 
With the new, state-of-the-art equipment, however, she said, "Anyone from 4'11" to 7' can get a proper workout on most of the equipment." 
The Rock also features more specialized pieces than it previ­ously did. These include a dead­lift platform, a total chest machine and a total shoulder machine. It is possible to com­plete a full circuit using the machines in the upper weight room and on the balcony; this means that if someone uses every machine, the person will get a complete workout. 
Although they like the new equipment, two Carroll fresh­men said they also miss the old weight room. 
"I miss the dungeon aspect of the old weight room," Tim Butz said. "It made me feel hard­core." 
"It had kind of a Rocky feel," Dustin Beauchamp added. 
' . 

Please recycle The Observer 
SUMMER INTERNSHIP OPPORTUNITIES 
at a WORLD-CLASS/GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FACILITY 
The Environmental Research Institute, a joint activity of Notre Dame and Argonne National Laboratory, in collaboration with the Center for Environmental Science and Technology (CEST), will award up to 2 summer internships at Argonne National Laboratory for 2001 with a follow-up research appointment on campus in the Fall. Stipend, room and board are provided for the IO-week program at Argonne. 
Student applicants should have research interests in an environmentally-related discipline (any field of study) concerned with or likely to contribute to the understanding, assessment, or improvement of the environment. Applicants must be US citizens or permanent residents, enrolled at Notre Dame, have completed their Junior Year by May 2001, and be registered to return in the Fall of2001. 
For more details, contact Donna Fecher in the Center for Environmental Science and Technology: 152A Fitzpatrick Hall, 631-8376. Applicants will be required to complete an application. 
Deadline is February 23, 2001. 

is accepting applications for: 
2001-2002 
Editor in Chief 
Any undergraduate or graduate student at the University of Notre Dame, Saint Mary's College, or Holy Cross College is encouraged to apply. The editor in chief is entirely responsible for the operation ofThe Observer. Applicants should have a strong interest in journalism and possess solid management, public relations, and communications skills. Previous newspa­
per experience and a background in writing and editing, while helpful, are not required. 
Applicants should submit a resume and a five-page statement to Noreen Gillespie by 5 p.m., Tuesday, January 23.· For additional information about the position or application process, contact Noreen Gillespie at 631-4541, or stop by the office downstairs in South Dining Hall. 

0 
,'
···i··.;,.0,_,.····

RLD' 

ATI
·$,.,:•.,,' 

Monday, January 22, 2001 

COMPILED FROM TIIE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 

Drug trafficker beheaded: An Afghan man convicted of drug trafficking was beheaded in Saudi Arabia Sunday, the Saudi government said. Wazir bin Zarif Shinwari was beheaded in the western city of Jiddah for smuggling an unspecified quantity of hero­in into the kingdom, the Interior Ministry said in a written statement. 
Bomb attacks injure two: The Ilaitian government on Saturday blamed the opposi­tion for orchestrating four bomb attacks that left two seriously injured just weeks ahead of Jean Bertrand Aristide's inauguration. The attacks occurred Friday -two in downtown Port-au-Prince, the capital. and two in subur­ban Petionville. "After the bombing yesterday in Port-au-Prince we obtained very clear evi­dence of the participation of the opposition." 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

Reagan released from hospital: 
Former President Reagan returned home Saturday, a week after hip surgery and will continue physical therapy sessions in the com­forts of his Bel-Air home. his chief of staff said. Heagan, 89, was released from Saint John's Health Center in Santa Monica at about 2:30 
p.m. and was taken for the 10-minute trip home by private ambulance with wife Nancy Heagan at his side, Joanne Drake said Saturday. 
Crews work to plug gas leak: Crews toiling in freezing temperatures Saturday were unable to plug a leak in an underground gas storage facility that has created towering gas geysers and explosions in the central Kansas town of Hutchinson. Inspectors found on Saturday a pocket of underground gas from the leak that posed more problems. and Kansas Gas Service official'> ordered the evacuation of Cargill Salt Company. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 

Car chase ends in escape: Fowler Police believe two suspects from a high-speed car chase Thursday are involved in an Illinois car theft ring. The pursuit began around 
11:30 p.m. Thursday, when Fowler police offi­cer Jamie Garcia tried to stop a black Ferrari for driving with dim headlights. The driver sped off, accelerating to more than 140 mph before losing control and sliding into a ditch at the intersection of U.S. 52 and County Road 200 South, Fowler Police Chief Eric Greenberg said. The driver, a white male, fled on foot and escaped. 
Market Watch 1/19 
Dow 

]ONES  10,587.59  -90.69  
,.Up: l,248  Same: 456  Composite Volume: NIA  
AMEX:  893.26  '°':6.62 ,i;ffli  
Nasdaq:  2770.38  +1.89  

il~w:NY§l:;lal;,.646.57 ,. ·.· :a:2lpi;Jpfl 
S&P 500: 1342.54 -5.43 TOPS VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE SGA!N PRICE SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) -11.46 •3.99 30.118 MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) .9.91 •5.50 61.00 INTEL CORP (INTC) •4.26 •1..U 33.% CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) .3,57 -1.50 40.38 ADC TELECOM INC (AOCTI 
.2(,,'}') -S.75 15.56 
CONGO 


Associated Press 

KINSHASA 
Congo's crumbling capi­tal on Sunday received the body of its slain president, Laurent Kabila, four years after his rebel army was welcomed for ousting the late dictator Mobutu Sese Seko. 
Newly installed leader Joseph Kabila, surrounded by soldiers from Congo and military ally Angola, wept as his father's casket was taken off the presiden­tial plane and marched across the tarmac to a waiting open-top trailer. 
Joseph, who forsook his normal military uniform in favor of dark civilian clothes, walked behind the casket as it was carried past two rows of sobbing officials. Six military brass strained to heave the cas­ket onto a trailer as anoth­er officer led the proces­sion with a large portrait of the slain president. 
The casket arrived in Kinshasa around midday after being flown from Kabila's southeastern home city of Lubumbashi, 1,000 miles southeast of the capital. The plane made a special low sweep over Kinshasa before land­ing. 
Thousands of supporters grieved in the streets for their fallen leader, crying and waving palm fronds as 
a motorcade bearing Kabila's casket wound through the city. 
"We are living in misery now. It is like we are cry­ing away our lives," said Nzemba Nsimba Lion, a civil servant. 
The procession was broadcast live on state television. "All of Kinshasa is crying for Laurent Desire Kabila," an announcer said. 
After taking power in a rebel march across this sweeping Central African nation in May 1997, Kabila was initially hailed by Kinshasa residents as a hero. But those feelings were soon replaced by resentment as his corrupt 
grip on power began to resemble that of Mobutu, the 30-year dictator whom he toppled. 
There were signs that Congolese authorities were taking no chances that Kabila's unpopularity would mar Sunday's memorial ceremony. 
A heavy military pres­ence was staked out at the open-air Palace of the People, where the service was to be held. At inter­sections and marketplaces, soldiers violently confiscat­ed necklaces and earrings from a number of women, arguing that jewelry was disrespectful during a 30­day mourning period, wit­nesses said. 
BULGARIA 

Five indicted on assassination charges 
Associated Press 
SOFIA 

Two Ukrainians and three Bulgarians have been charged with killing Bulgaria's former Prime Minister Andrei Lukanov, the state BTA news agency reported Sunday. 
Lukanov, who served as government head for the Socialist Party of former communists from 1989 to 1990, was shot dead in front of his Sofia home Oct. 2, 1996. 
.Judicial authorities released few details about their investigation, but stories published in Bulgarian news­papers in recent years suggested that Lukanov. once a member of the Moscow-trained Bulgarian communist elite, was the victim of business rivals. 
Ukrainians Alexander Rusov and Alexey Kichatov, Bulgarian business­man Angel Vasilev, his nephew Georgi Georgiev and Yuri Lenev, an employee in Vasilev's firm, have been charged for complicity in the killing, the agency quoted Rusov's lawyer Marin Markovski as saying. 
Rusov and Kichatov are under arrest, and the Bulgarians are out on bail, the report said. The lawyer, Markovski, declined to offer informa­tion about the specific charges against each ofthe defendants. 
Local media have speculated that Vasilev, a construction entrepreneur who apparently was at odds with Lukanov. hired Rusov and Kichatov to kill him. Ukraine extradited Husov and Kichatov on Bulgaria's request last year Rusov's lawyer denied his client's involvement. 
page 6 

The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Monday, January 22, 2001 
Speech 
continued from page I 
President Clinton '"for service to our nation" and former rival Al Gore "for a contest conduct­
ed with spirit and ended with grace." 
As  with  
most  inau­ 
g  u  r  a  l  

addresses. Bush's speech was thematic and short on spe­cific propos­als. 
But he did issue what amounted to 

plan. "We will reduce taxes, to recover the momentum of our economy and reward the effort 
· and enterprise of working Americans," Bush said. He pledged to "build our defenses beyond challenge'' with a strong military and to "confront weapons of mass 
"I ask you to be citizens. Citizens. not spectators. Citizens, not subjects. Responsible citizens, building communities of service and a nation of character. ,, 
George W. Bush President 
destruction, so that a new century is spared new horrors." 
The United States is engaged in the world "by history and by choice," Bush said. promising to continue to keep the nation 

a summary of what were long­involved in international ti me campaign promises, affairs and world commerce beginning with educational and not to permit a retreat reform. "Together, we will within its borders. reclaim America's schools, And he issued a warning to before ignorance and apathy would-be adversaries: "We 
claim  more  will  defend  
young lives," Bush assert­ "With a single oath, we  our allies and our interests.  
ed.  affirm old traditions and  We will show  
B u planned  s  h to  make new beginnings.,,  purpose with­out arro­ 
make his edu­ gance.  We  
cational pack­ George W. Bush  will  meet  
age the first  President  aggression  

legislation he sends to Congress. 
He would require more stu­dent testing, punish and reward states depending on pupil performance, expand public charter schools, spend $5 billion to boost literacy over five years and $8 billion over 10 years for more college scholarships and grants. 
"\Ve will reform Social Security and 
and bad faith 

with resolve and strength. And to all nations, we will speak for the values that gave our nation birth." 
"America, at its best, is com­passionate," he added. 
Bush, a deeply religious man, made several references to divinity and religion in his address. He said he knew his goals were within his reach 
"because we 

Medicare, are guided by
"America is, at its best, 
sparing our a power larg•
compassionate."
children from er than our­struggles we selves, who have the creates us in
George W. Bush 
power to pre­his image,"
President
vent," Bush said. He has proposed allowing younger workers to put a portion of their Social Security taxes into the stock market in search of higher returns; and allowing private companies to compete to pro­vide prescription drug and other medical benefits under Medicare. 
And he got in a plug for his 10-year. $1.6 trillion tax-cut he said. 
"Church 

and charity, synagogue and mosque, lend our communities their human­ity, and they will have an hon­ored place in our plans and laws" he said at another point. 
And in a Biblical reference, Bush said, "I can pledge our nation to a goal: When we see that wounded traveler on the road to Jericho, we will not pass to the other side." 
----tt3---­
Saint Macy's Colleg~ 
NOTRE DAME · INDIANA 
Thtt NtltiorJ'S Premi#rCatho/K: Wom.,.,'5 Callepe 
28TH ANNUAL 
E'U:R_OP1EA.N STUDY 
T01UJIR 

MAY 23 -JUNE 22, 2001 
~----------::: 

Irt(onna.t'ww Meet'IHl.ff 
6:3o -7:3op. »11.. rW?Mia,y, JMIMQ.¥Y 23 
We-lMv Par-Lor, tf.~CoUe,g,e, Ce,f\,UW sai+'\tMciry':,, coUe,g,e, 


Travels in Ireland,-Scotland, England and France 
Courses offered in Biology, Music, Philosophy, and Psychology. 
Agenda 
continued from page I 
when Bush submits his budget next month. 
Miller's press secretary, Joan Kirchner, said Miller had campaigned on being "a tax­cutting senator like he was a tax•cutting governor. This was a great opportunity to du both." 
Other Democrats, mean­whiJe, repeated their con­tention that the plan is overly ambitious and that Congress' first duty is to prepare a bud­get that ensures fiscal disci­pline and reduction of the national debt. 
"The one that President Bush is proposing is much too large and may spend money that we really don't have," Sen. Joe Lieberman, D-Conn., said on ABC's "This Week." 
White House Chief of Staff Andrew Card, on CNN's "Late Edition," said Bush would 

Fresh-baked Cini-minis for just 99(. Maximum taste. 
:-~... -·6' 
\ .... J ,i .....;.
,........ •.• 
. :'· 
"i· 

Got the urger The irresistible taste of Cini-minis. 
Whether it was the smell or the great cinnamon taste that lured you in, after one bite you'll soon realize that the only thing small about our delicious Cini-minis is the price. 
The Huddle, Lafortune Student Center 
work with McCain for cam· paign finance legislation that is "fair across the board," and contains "paycheck protec­tion" that gives union mem­bers the right to withhold dues going to political dona­tions. 
But Bush's priorities are education, tax cuts and mili­tary readiness, he said. 
Senate Minority Leader Tom Daschle of South Dakota said on ABC that paycheck protec­tion, strongly opposed by organized labor, was "cum­bersome and incredibly impractical" and would face a fight. 
McCain, on NBC's "Meet the Press," said he was starting a grass•roots campaign in states of legisiators who oppose his legislation, and he insisted that his bill must get a vote by the end of March. "I believe we can work together on this, but we know that delay is death." 
The Senate on Saturday quickly confirmed seven mem­hers of Bush's Cabinet. but hopes of' pushing through leg­islativ e initiatives quickly could be stymied by a floor battle over the nomination of former Sen. John Ashcroft, H­

Mo., to be attorney general. Daschle said Sunday he did not support a filibuster over the Ashcroft nomination, but Democrats will want floor time to explain why they think Ashcroft is too conservative for the job. 
Ashcroft is expected to be confirmed eventually, with all 
50 Hcpublicans and  some  
Democrats in support.  
Bush also plans to  move  

quickly to lay out his educa• tion package, including more school testing. holding schools more accountable for perfor­mance, boosting literacy and, most controversial, expanding school voucher programs. 
Card said vouchers "won't be the top priority" of the administration but will be a tool used to help children trapped in failing schools. 
page 7
Monday, January 22, 200 I The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
"' 



r 

coming Relatively soon, 
Keenan Hal1 Proudly _presents: 

Anniversary Spectacular 


February 1st, 2 nd, and 3 rd 
Tick-et Oist-ribution : 
Saint Mary'-s -College: Wednesday, Jan1iary 24 3:30 -4:30 p.m. 
O'Laughlin Auditorium Lobby 
Notre Dame: Thursday, January 25 2 -3 p.m. JACC -Gate 10 
No lines more than an hour ahead oftime. 2 tickets per ID, one ID per person Tickets are, as always, FREE! 
''Democracy 
from the Bottom.Up: The Virtues of Political Conflict 
in Korea and East Asia'' 
BRUCE CUMINGS 

Norman and Edna Freehling Professo·r ofHistory, University ofChicago 
Monday, January 22, 2001, 7:00 pm 131 DeBartolo Hall 
In our "globalized" present, democracy represents the greatest challenge for the rapid­ly modernizing,sornetirnes authoritarian polities of East Asia. Yet, it is no less chal­lenging for Western post-industrial nations like the United States that have achieved procedural democracy while blunting the political conflict critical to the development of a mature civil society. Professor Cumings' provocative comparative inquiry will demonstrate how an energetic and politically assertive, native pluralism in Korea, Japan, Taiwan, and China has advanced the realization of democracy in the face of reluctant political authorities. Moreover, he contends that South Korea's emerging twenty-first-century civil society may prove a most suitable path for both the devel­oped and developing nations of the "globalizing" world to follow. 
The lecture is open to the public 

Sponsored by the Center for Asian Studies, the Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies, and Joan 8. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies 
VATICAN CITY 
Pope selects 37 for College of Cardinals 
Associated Press 
VATICAN CITY 
Pope John Paul II elevated archbishops of New York and \Vashington and 35 other church leaders to the College of Cardinals on Sunday, stamping his conservative mark ever more heavily on the group that will choose his successor. 
With the appointments, read out in a strong. steady voice from a sunbathed window over St. Peter's Square, John Paul has now picked all but 10 of the roughly 120 men who will gather one day in the Sistine Chapel to choose the Roman Catholic Church's next leader -traditionally, from among themselves. 
"Their ranks clearly reflect 
the universality of the church, 
with the multiplicity of its min­
istries," John Paul said of the 
37 new appointees from five 
continents. 
The nominations bring the 
College of Cardinals back up to 
-and beyond -minimum vot­
ing strength, three years after 
the last appointments. 
The wait had been seen by 
some as dangerously risky in 
view of the 80-year-old pon­
tiff's own fragile health. John 
Paul, who assumed the papacy 
in 1978, already has outlived 
some of the cardinals once 
mentioned as possible succes­
sors. 
At 80, cardinals themselves 

become ineligible to vote for~ 
pope. Death and old age had 
cut the number of vote-eligible 
cardinals to 97 -23 shy of the 
traditional maximum 120 vot~ 
ers. 
John Paul broke that limit in 

1998. He readily acknowledged 
doing so again Sunday. 

"I have the joy to announce 
that on Feb. 21, the feast of the 
throne of St. Peter. I will hold a 
consistory in which, breaking 
yet again the numerical limit 
set by Pope Paul VI ... I will 
nominate 37 new cardinals," 
John Paul said, making the 
heavily anticipated announce­
ment in his weekly Sunday 
speech· to pilgrims. 
The day's appointments mean that when the Vatican hands out the traditional red cardinal caps on Feb. 21, the number of voting members of the College of Cardinals should stand at 128. 
However, birthdays and over­all old age mean the number of College of Cardinal members is constantly in flux. 
Three of Sunday's appointees are from the United States: Monsignor Theodore E. McCarrick, archbishop of Washington, D.C.; Monsignor Edward Egan, eight months into the job as New York's archbishop, and a strong oppo­nent of birth control and abor­tion; and the Rev. Avery Dulles, a theology professor at New York's Fordham University. 
Dulles, a staunch supporter 
of John Paul's conservative 
teachings on morality, is the 
son of John Foster Dulles, U.S. 
secretary of sta,te during the 
Cold War, and nephew of Allen 
Welsh Dulles, CIA director dur­
ing the 1950s. 
Other prominent appointees 
include a Vietnamese, 
Monsignor Francois Xavier 
Nguyen Van Thuan, a career 
Vatican · churchman. 
Communists sent him to jail 
and then internment camps 
after taking over his country in 
1975. 
Heavily Catholic Latin 
America supplied many of the 
new cardinals. including Sao 
Paulo Archbishop Claudio 
Hummes of Brazil, head of one 
of the world's largest dioceses; 
Buenos Aires Archbishop Jorge 
Mario Bergoglio of Argentina; 
Lima Archbishop Juan J..uis 
Cipriani Thorne of Peru; and 
Francisco Javier Errazuriz 
Ossa, archbishop of Santiago. 
Chile. 
The Peru archbishop is a 
member of Opus Dei, a secre­
. tive, conservative order favored 
by the pope. 
One appointment. Stephanos 
II Ghattas, is patriarch of 
Alexandria and leader of 
Egypt's 200,000 Catholic Copts. 
HELP!HELP!HELP!HELP! 
Student Activities has immediate openings for the following student employee positions: 
Ballroom Monitors Building Set Up Crew Sound Technicians 
24 Hour Lounge Monitors Office Assistants 


..J 



O
THE 
page 8 
BSERVER 

Monday, January 22, 200 I 

THE OBSERVER 


P.O. Box Q, Norr~ Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Tim Lane 
NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Mattingly VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smith SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: Elizabeth Lang 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CoNTROU.ER: Bob Woods GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 

OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO ..•••.•••.•••. 631-7 471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING ..................................... 63 l-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EmTOR/AssT. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE ........................................ 631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer .obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinc. l@nd.edu 
SPORTS........................................................631-4543 
observer .sports. I@nd.edu SCENE...................................................... ...631-4540 observer.scene .1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOTO.............................,..........................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ................. 631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web sire at http:l/observer.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, spores, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 

weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 

online features for spe­
and rares of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 

about The Observer 
articles published after 

to meet the editors and 
staff
August 1999 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of rhe adminisrrarion of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advenisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Vi~wpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Observer policies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefMike Connolly. 

Foriegn dependence on U.S. fortified by military 
There are many reasons why students should question the presence of the large ROTC program on our campus. ROTC explicitly discriminates against gays and lesbians. It trains students to violate Catholic Just War Theory. Its values 
Aaron Kreider 
conflict with those of academia. But instead I will focus Think. on the military's Question, purpose and prac­Resist tices. 
It should be clear that the role of the United States military is not, despite its name, defense. A mili­tary that is only one fourth as strong would be more than sufficient for defense. So what is its purpose? 
According to the United Nations Development Program, the average American earns 100 times more, lives 26 years longer, has one fifteenth the chance of dying as an infant, uses 140 · times more electricity and 20 times more oil than someone living in a least devel­oped country. This income gap has dou­bled in the past 40 years. 
How do Americans manage to con­sume so much of the world's resources? I propose that the function of the U.S. military is to ensure American domi­nance of the globe, thus guaranteeing that this disparity continues. 
Economic inequality is the inevitable product of capitalism. This benefits the several percent of people who are rich, while hurting the overwhelming majority -the exploited poor. Fortunately for Americans, thanks to a powerful mili­tary, we are that several percent. 
U.S. foreign policy and the military are intractably intertwined. American diplo­macy. military and economic aid as well as CIA covert operations are all attempts to innuence a situation, without resorting to direct military force. Much of their power comes from the fact that they are backed up by the world's strongest mili­tary. Thus when questioning ROTC's presence, one should examine not just military interventions (like Kosovo) but also the goals and actual practices of 
U.S. foreign policy. 
The role of U.S. foreign policy is to extend capitalism to cover the entire globe so that states are dependent upon tlie industrialized nations, especially the 
U.S. The beauty of this system is that it provides the U.S. with cheap resources and markets for our manufacturrd goods and high-tech services. Poor nations are locked ·into producing primary goods (like agricultural products or minerals) that do not require processing or dead­end assembly work -while rich nations monopolize all of the highly profitable growth industries. Not surprisingly, states often try to refuse to be perma­nently dependent in this economic sys­tem. This is where the U.S. military comes in handy. The U.S. will use all of its might to stop any country from trying any alternative approach to economic development other t.han unadulterated capitalism. For if any state were to sue­
. ceed, it would cause others to imitate it. 
Almost every U.S. intervention can be 
traced to this cause. 
Iri 1954. Guatemala's democratically 
elected president Arbenz started a mod­
est program of land reform. However as 
this program threatened to take unculti­
vated land from the United Fruit 
Company, the CIA organized a coup and 
set the scene for 40 years of civil war, 
military dictatorship, death squads, tor­
ture and disappearances affecting 
200,000 people. 
Juan Bosch's presidency did not last 
long in the Dominican Republic. Elected 
in 1963, he dared to propose land reform 
and nationalization. So he was over­
thrown in a military coup. Two years 
later. when civil war had broken out and 
Bosch's supporters were threatening to 
win, the Marines intervened and Bosch 
was not to return. 
In 1978, leftist Sandinistas overthrew 
U.S. supported Nicaraguan dictator Somoza. Within a couple years, the United States was funding the Contra guerillas, wrecking havoc on Nicaragua's attempts to develop along alternative socialist economic lines. The U.S. solved the Sandinista "problem'' in 1990, when the U.S. funded opposition party won the elections and Nicaragua returned to the capitalist path. 
More recently in 1995 the U.S. restored Aristide, the democratically elected pres­ident of Haiti, to power under the condi­tion that he renounce his previous oppo­sition to unregulated free market poli­cies. 
Unlike the Cold War, it is no longer publicly acceptable for the United States to support anticommunist military dicta­torships. Instead we urge states to move towards "democracy." However if you look closer at these countries, it is more critical that they follow unhindered capi­talism (the dictates of' the International Monetary Fund and World Bank) -than be democratic. 
Israel is an excellent example. A so­called democracy. receiving billions of 
U.S. military and economic aid, the coun­try's policies of disempowering Palestinians are closer to South African apartheid. 
Colombia. now the third largest recipi­ent of U.S. military aid, is another good one. It holds regular elections, but the last time leftists formed a political party the government-tolerated death squads made short work or them. Colombia has the most human rights violations of' any Latin American country and the victims are primarily peasants whose crime is that they are poor. 
If you believe in economic justice, human rights and real democracy then you should oppose the existence of our military and ROTC. Ali a lirst step, let us follow The Observer's Sept. 15 editorial suggesting that "all ROTC students should be required to take a class in just war theory." 
Aaron Kreider is a third year sociolo.Q.'J graduate student. I !is column appears every other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
DILBERT 

SCOTT ADAMS 
C 
" 
PLEASE. I AM HAVING 
ENOUGH DIFFICULTY 
MEMORIZING MY CALENDAR. 
DID YOU WANT ANY CHEESE WITH THAT WHINE? 
'­

----~LL=m_____/Jjj2~......J 
BAH! ONLY INTERNS WITH WEAK MEMORIES 
NEED MONITORS! 
\ 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
':4 military operation involves deception. Even though you are competent, appear to be incompetent. Though effective, appear to be ineffective.,. 
Sun-tzu military strategist 


O
THE 

Monday, January 22, 2001 BSERVER page 9 
Football league of their own 
Excessive Celebration. Dropping the football three yards short of the goal line. Un-sportsmanlike penalties. The Oregon State game, the BCS and all the Bowl games demonstrated an ever-increasing dichotomy in college football. That is, there are student-athletes and there are college football players. The difference in these players proved painfully evident in the Fiesta Bowl on New Year's Eve. Dennis Ericson, with his speed 
Josh Kirley

before literacy recruiting campaign, soundly defeated a coach who must be accountable to the Admissions Office in signing a player. For 
Swift's

better or for worse; scouring the ghettoes and 
Confederate

academic probation lists ofjunior colleges for talent is an effective way to build a college foot­ball team. At Miami and now with Oregon State, Ericson has mastered this technique. Many of these players have no more concern for their education than they do for the depleting ozone layer. Ifthis sounds like a long-winded cry of "It's not fair," that's exactly what it is. 
It is not fair. Not to the fans. Not to the student-athletes. Not to the universities. Not to the players. Why should they have to go to class? Why should they have to learn? Why should something as arbitrary and unnecessary as "learning" impede the road to a promising NFL career? I mean, baseball players have the minor leagues; basketball players don't have to kill time, waiting for their bodies to develop into NBA sturdiness. This thing has gotten way out of hand. This year, the National Championship (another game between teams whose zealousness has made them no stranger to the 50 yard extra point) was decided by an academic penalty. Snoop "summa cum•· Minnis was deprived participation in the Orange Bowl due to multiple acad­emic failures. Dumfounded, the receiver swears to have attended eight times as many classes in one semester as Deion Sanders did in three years. How far out of whack have FSU's priorities fallen? 
I both attended and teach high school in south Florida. a hot bed for collegiate football talent. And players with the academic and per­sonal make up of Deion and Snoop {a name not to be found on the roster of a single collegiate honor roll) are the rule and not the exception. Many of the high school athletes in this area with Division­I talent do not have the intelligence, the discipline (internal or exter­nal), the required credits, the SAT scores or the desire to be students at the university level. Why should we make them? Just like they constantly ask me, "When will they ever use Algebra I or German II in the NFL?" Why should we impose the rigors of academia upon a young man whose only crime is the dream to make millions of dol­lars in professional football? After all, college isn't for everybody. As the regulations and definitions of a "student athlete" become blurred, let's pull the carpet out from under this charade and create a new reality. A reality that acknowledges that skilled football players aren't always the nicest, the smartest or the most disciplined young men in the world. 
I propose these non-academicians have a league of their own. Those who have the skill to be NFL prospects, but lack intellectual curiosity deserve an alternative. Their classmates, the motivated ones that they sit by on test days, deserve an alternative. A new league needs to be founded. Perhaps this new four team league could be an offshoot of the soon to be immensely popular XFL. Whatever the mechanism, a change needs to be made in college football. The fairness of competition is lost when the team with the lowest acade­mic standards gets the best players and the most trophies. 
I propose strict requirements for this new league. Those interested must have a maximum SAT of 750 or ACT of 15. No exceptions. They must have demonstrated a complete lack of academic ambition and respect for authority in high school. Chronic truancy and document­ed incidences of insubordination (both in the classroom and on the field) should be proven. Any non-athletic, extra-curricular activities will hurt the applicant, while a police record is a definite plus. To dis­tinguish this collegiate-alternative from a true minor league, n? one over 21 will be allowed. (This will prevent brawny has-beens from bruising the younger ne\'.er-will-bes) Once accepted, there will be no mandatory practices and no mandatory team meetings. All players will receive $40,000.00 a year (or roughly the amount wasted in an attempt to educate those who do not wish to be educated) in addition to shoes, sweats, warm-ups and all the perks already afforded to var­sity athletes. Corporations, owners, coaches, friends or former plat ers may provide additional compensation in any manner they see ht. If they so choose, players may spend their afternoons working out and their evenings smoking weed and playing Playstation (not that this is a drastic departure from the actual college experience}. At the end of every season, the winner of the Thug Bowl will go on to play an exhibition game with the college National Champions. And of course, per Thug Bowl Rules, a play is not officially over and the play clock will not reset until the obligatory post-tackle dance is complete. 
Joshua Kirley is a member ofthe class of '99. He currently lives and teaches in Cape Coral. Florida. lie can be reached at MrKirley@aol.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Community responds to letter condemning athlete service 
Athletes insulted by letter's implications 
I would like to respond to the  program that helps to organize  experience will live with all of  
letter printed Jan. 19 by Tim  opportunities for student ath­ us forever. We athletes are all  
Crouch regarding the  letes to volunteer all over the  extremely fortunate, Mr.  
"hypocrisy" that is Notre Dame.  South Bend area. Volunteering  Crouch and I believe that as  
More importantly, I would like  isn't about PR, Mr. Crouch­ such, we should try to help each  
to voice my discontent with his  never has been, never will be.  other and those not as fortu­ 
grossly unjustifiable opinion  It is about giving of yourself to  nate. Many students at Notre  

that Notre Dame student ath­help others. letes are poor role models for That night at the children. Christmas party. I was 
I was a participant in the inspired by the strength Christmas party held for these and determination of children and I cannot even these kids who are bat­believe that you had the audaci­tling a disease that they ty to take such a cheap shot at a cannot even begin to group of student athletes that understand. I was volunteered to spend some of moved by the child who their time with these great chil­sat next to me to deco­dren. Why are you complaining rate Santa Claus pic-about the good deeds of others? tures and could not stop Should student athletes be talking about what he restricted from giving of them­wanted to be when he selves? grew up. He looked like 
In my opinion, we have many he had been through gifts to share with these chil­chemotherapy, but his 
dren, and it would be a shame smile, ear to ear, made me just don't ever tell someone else to keep these to ourselves. The smile back and laugh with him that his or her heart isn't big Christmas party has been one until our Santas were done. You enough or true enough to help. of the most successful and said in your letter, "Is it I took your article personally, enriching experiences that I humane to show these children as did many of my teammates 
have been involved with in the what they can't achieve?" Are and I resent your opinion that I last four years of my career you kidding me? Who are you am not a good role model and 
here at Notre Dame. You asked, to tell these kids what they can that instead of volunteering for "what was the PR coordinator and can't do? things like the Christmas party, thinking" when he planned this These kids are fighters and I I should give way for others 
event? will not let you tell them that who are better than I am. 
Well, for your information, they will not achieve all that the party was coordinated not they have dreamed and hoped. John Scolaro by the PR people at Notre Dame I hope that our presence made senior, off-campus but by the Llfe Skills directors some of those kids happy, if Track and Field Team at the University. Ufe Skills is a only for one night, because that January 21, 200 l 
Students and athletes have phenomenal dedication to service 
I am outraged at the letter in Friday's Observer, teers to take a daily pounding from the Notre criticizing Notre Dame student athletes for help­Dame football team, as a walk-on player. Joe is ing host a Christmas party for kids with cancer. successfully battling cancer. · 
Shame on this writer. I have been involved in While Joey Getherall has been blessed with rel­many make-a-wish events at Notre Dame. Young atively good health at Notre Dame (even though cancer victims, in particular, enjoy visiting Notre he has played through numerous injuries) he was Dame, the football stadium and the Joyce Center not blessed with much height and weight. I have 
and meeting with Notre Dame student athletes. seen how Joey has interacted with young persons Hats off to Jennifer Crittendon, Eric Guerra and and cancer victims. I assure you that these chil­all the kind and caring Notre Dame student ath­dren would rather spend one minute with Joey Getherall than to listen to the blathering of this 
letes who give so freely of their time through 
Notre Dame's Life Skills Program. I have spoken malcontent letter writer. Ask Scott Delgadillo how he feels about Joey, Bob Davie, Grant Irons, Rudy 
to nursing home residents, hospital staff members and the many Notre Dame football team mem­
and parents, whose lives have been touched bers who shared time with him.
because one of our student athletes has visited. 
The person best known for visiting young sick 
I was friends with a 95-year old man, who until people was Babe Ruth. Despite his baseball fame 
his dying day, raved about that day when the and proclivity to misbehave off the field, BabeNotre Dame Cheer Squad visited his assisted liv­Ruth was never known to have turned do\\11 aing residence. I don't recall him ever complaining request to visit a sick child. It's a good thing those 
that he couldn't achieve the feats of Mike Brown thousands of children are not on The Observer 
and John Taggart, the greatest Leprechaun and cheerleader in Notre Dame history. mailing list. 
There is no student body in the country which The mean-spirited person who blasted our stu­donates more of its time to helping those less for­
dent athletes is also completely wrong about the aspirations of young people with cancer and other tunate. Ifthis letter writer were not so ignorant about Notre Dame, he would know that. The fact 
life threatening illnesses. These young persons that the media is more likely to highlight the cherish dreams. They love to be in the presence activities of celebrity athletes, is not the fault of 
of people more fortunate than they are. Incidentally, they also love to be entertained by Notre Dame. 
My suggestion to the letter writer is to quit
"regular" students (who also have something whining and stop by the Center for Social 
"these children can't achieve"). Following the misguided reasoning of the letter writer, appar­Concerns and volunteer his time. ently cancer victims should only meet with other Cappy Gagnonvictims. 
Class of'66

By the way, one of the most heroic student ath­
January 21, 2001 

letes at Notre Dame is Joe Recendez. Joe volun­
• 

Dame, not only athletes, con­tribute their time and their hearts to many causes already. Many even do this on a daily basis. You don't need a Christmas party to help and visit with sick children. You don't need a golden key to go to the cancer ward at a hospital or participate in communi­ty service events. Your wife can do the same and would 
obviously have much to contribute from her experi­ence. I am thankful for my great health everyday and do not take it for granted. But, 
L__ 

C 
en@ s 
page 10 Monday, January 22, 2001 

ratio 

This week, the University honors Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. with several 
dorms, the University will sponsor the week's activities will be an By JACQUELINE BROWDER several events this week that focus on address on Tuesday evening by Assistant Scene Editor diversity, race relations and the Dr. Cornel West, a renowned 
importance of community. scholar, author and Harvard pro­
This week the Notre Dame commu­This year's theme, "It Takes a fessor. As one of the nation's nity will come together to celebrate Village to Plant the Future," will premier public intellectuals, Dr. the life and mission of one of our emphasize the necessity for the Notre West, whose books are widely nation's finest leaders, Dr. Martin Dame and Saint Mary's communities recognized and used in Luther King, Jr. to look beyond campus boundaries University classes, will offer his 
Although students spent the official and reach out to our neighbors in thoughts and. reflections on the holiday registering for classes and South Bend and Mishawaka. relationship between colleges moving their things back into the "This is a truly excellent opportuni-and universities. and their sur­
ty." says Pricilla rounding communities. "We have 
Wong. Assistant a wonderful speaker, able to 
Director of articulate so much about human­
Campus Ministry. ity through race, and he brings 
"Not because it is this to us through a broader 
a 'race matters' prospective," says 'Wong. 
issue, but 
because it touch­"We see men as Jews or 
es upon basic Gentiles, Catholics or 
human dignity. It Protestants, Chinese or 
is so easy for us American, Negros or whites. We 
to divide our­fail to think of them as fellow 
selves, and draw human beings made form the 
lines between us. same basic stuff as we, molded 
\Ve must cross in the same divine image." 
that line, and try 
to go out into the The Student Government on 
community and \Vednesday will present "Colors 
relate to our of the \Vorld," an interactive 
neighbors." forum bringing together a panel 
of students with different back­
"The poor in grounds to tell their stories that 
our countries have increased their own aware­
have been shut ness about diversity. 
f'
r· out of our minds "This is an opportunity for stu­and driven from dents to actively speak to each the mainstream other about things we don't nor­of our societies, mally like to talk about," says because we have \Vong. "But, it's okay to talk allowed them to about these issues. It is a time to become invisible." share, learn and listen to all kinds of experiences, while taking toward making Notre Dame and Saint One highlight of away the element of fear." As a step Mary's campuses for everyone. the 


Dr. King ~oliday Celebration An 
Interactive
Schedule ey~8d~ess Pray~~rvice Forum of Dr. Camel West "Colors of the World" "Mustard Seed Faith" 
Events Jan. 23, 2001 Jan. 24, 2001 . Jan. 25, 2001
7p.m.-101 DeBartolo 6p.m.-Hesburgh Auditorium 7p.m.-Keenan-Stanford Chapel 
Commemorating a man and his mission 
worked diligently to carry on underscore the mission events. Led by student leaders people in the planning and
By KEN SIEFERT 

this mission-a mission which behind these powerful com­for the first time, the commit­facilitation of these events.
Co-Chair, Dr. King Holiday Celebration 

celebrates the beauty of munity projects. Sponsoring a tee has come together with With valuable support, the diversity and ignites the student art design contest and new perspectives and new committee achieved new 
It is time to celebrate. Dr. 

power of the human spirit. bringing members of the diversity to facilitate the plan­goals and exceeded expecta­Martin Luther King Jr.'s 
Community outreach is a Mishiana community together ning of this year's celebra­tions in planning this year'sbirthday, a symbolic repre­
cornerstone movement behind to celebrate the committee's tion. celebration, thereby further sentation of the civil this year's theme, three sponsored events show­The committee pooled enhancing the idea of commu­rights movement, 

"It Takes a Village case the many faces of our together the talents and ener­nity effort and teamwork. 
celebrates a hall­

to Plant the "village" and the bright future gy of its new and past mem­Dr. Martin Luther King's
mark achievement 

Future." In the spir­which we are building togeth­bers to inspire new conversa­important messages and in U.S. society. Yet it of recent univer­er. tion and bright ideas. But the meaningful insights have beyond these histor­
sity initiatives that The committee itself con­committee was not alone in been a tradition at Notre ical successes, there 
have strengthened sists of a rich representation its efforts. Dame for many years. 
was ingrained in the 

the bond between of Notre Dame faculty, stu­Empowered with the sup­This year's events will be fight for justice and 
Notre Dame and the dents and administrators. port of various organizations especially powerful, and the 
equality a far great surrounding com-Commissioned with the plan­both on and off campus, the committee welcomes all and mission. The Dr. 

munity, this year's ning of three events, this year Dr. Martin Luther King everyone to take part in the Martin Luther King Dr. Martin Luther King has broken ranks with an Celebration Committee has celebration of community and Celebration Committee has ·celebration events seek to exciting new program of reached out to thousands of human dignity. 
C 
en@ s 
Monday, January 22, 2001 
page 11 

a true Kin 

activities, reminding students that "it takes a villiage to plant the future." 

injustice mars and defaces the image of God in man. " 
Thursday evening, the Stanford-Keenan chapel will host a prayer service, entitled "Mustard Seed Faith." The ser­vice, closing the Dr. King com­memoration, will be a gathering to celebrate our role as individ­uals living as a community of faith. University president Fr. Malloy will offer his reflection orl our faith and social commit­ment as a university, and Rene Mulligan, a senior from discuss the need for everyone to Pasquerilla West, will share her ideas become aware and respectful of the of Christian witness through commu­
differences nity service. that bring "The prayer ser­unique indi­vice reminds us viduals to our that God is cer­schools. tainly a part of all 
of this. This obser­
" T h e vance is truly an Church has illustration of all an opportuni­that Notre Dame ty and duty represents: to lift up its God, family voice like a and educa­trumpet and tion," says declare unto Kat Walsh, the people a Student the immortal­Gov-ern­ity of segre­ment repre­gation. It sentative to must affirm the Dr. King that every celebration. human life is a reflection "/ have a of divinity, A powerful orator, Dr. King d r e a m 
and that today."
reached millions with his 'I Have 
every act of 

a Dream' speech. 

attends these events," says Walsh. "Sometimes, people see posters, and think that this is just another Notre Dame event. However, this is a time to take action. Everyone talks about problems with diversity [on campus] and we are offering an opportunity to really talk about it. The time _is now­it's here." 

Photo courtesy ol Flip Schulke As his son watches, Dr. King removes a burnt cross from his yard. 
T h i s 

week's Martin Luther King, Jr. cele­bration is an invitation to every student to honor the greatest civil rights leader our nation's history. King not only crossed racial barriers, he broke them down. Now, it is our turn. We, as students, have the opportu­nity to break down our own barriers by helping the commu­nity and recognizing the impor­tance of basic human dignity in those around us. It may takes a village to plant the future, but it is an individual's responsibil­ity to become a part of that vil­lage. 
"I really hope that everyone 
-Acousticafe, LaFortune Student -"la Estrategia def Caracol," -"Casablanca, "Annenburg -"Rossini," Montgomery Center, 9 p.m.-midnight
Latin American Film Series, Auditorium, Snite Museum of 
Theater, laFortune Student -"Meet the Parents" and "YellowHesburgh Center for
Center, 7 p. m.Art, 7p.m. 
Submarine," $2 admission, 155International Studies and 101 Debartolo Hall, 10:30Auditorium, 7 p.m. 
p.m. 
... 







-Student Film Festival 2001, $2 

-Student Film Festival 2001, $2 admission, Snite 
-Ethan Ha/mo, "How to listen to a Bach luge, " admission, Snite Museum ofArl, 
Museum ofArt, 7:30 p.m. 
Hesburgh Library Faculty Lounge 7:30p.m. 
-''Meet the Parents" and "Tommy, " $2 admission, -''Meet the Parents" and "The 
155 and 101 DebarloloHall, 8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. Wall, "$2 admission, 155 and 101 Debartolo Hall, 8 p. m. and 
10:30 p.m. 

page 12 Monday, January 22, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS 
HOCKEY 

Notre Dame loses, ties Ohio State in weekend series 
By MATT ORENCHUK 
Spores Writer 
The hockey team proved it was going to fight its way out of the CCHA cellar on Saturday night, coming out of its game with a 2-2 tie against Ohio State. 
The Irish had their backs up against the wall after drop­ping the Friday game 5-3. They responded on Saturday, battling for a late goal that sent to the game to overtime and an eventual 2-2 final. 
Friday night's game showed how talented Ohio State's freshman class is. All five goals put on the board by the Buckeyes were scored by freshmen. 
Notre Dame got the scoring going. on a power play with five minutes left in the first period. The puck bounced off of Ohio State goalie Mike Betz right to the stick of Aaron Gill. who put it away. The lead didn't last long, though. One minute, 27 seconds later, the Buckeyes tied it up when Paul Caponigri fired past ND goalie Tony Zasowski. 
The teams entered the first intermission knotted at one. 
In the second period Ohio State's freshman class took over. Buckeye freshmen Dave Steckel and Scott May each put up a goal in a 57-second span that gave Ohio State a 3­1 lead. 
The two-goal lead gave Ohio State a chance to play the kind of hockey it likes to play. The Buckeyes clamped down defensively, frustrating the Notre Dame lines and giving them few chances. 
In the third period, Ohio State continued to frustrate the Irish. With a little over five minutes left in the game, Notre Dame senior Dan Carlson was able to slip the puck past Betz on the power play, and the Irish pulled within one goal of the Buckeyes. 
Unfortunately that didn't last long. One minute later, a defensive breakdown gave Ohio State a one-on-one break, and Caponigri capital­ized for his second goal of the night. 
The Irish again pulled to within a goal late when they 

pulled their goalie and Ryan Dolder was able to score against Betz. 
But just like after the last Irish goal, Ohio State found the Notre Dame defenders napping. Dave Steckel fin­ished the scoring when he went high on Zasowski for the Buckeyes fifth goal of the night. The game ended 5-3 in favor of the Buckeyes. 
"(Friday) was a frustrating night for us," said Irish head coach Dave Poulin. "We didn't play 60 minutes against (Ohio State) and it killed us." 
Saturday night was "Rock the Rink" night at the Joyce Center. The pre-game cere­monies included introductions of all the parents of the Notre Dame team members. 

Once the game started, it was a defensive battle, and the teams went into the first intermission tied 0-0. 
In the second period, back­to-back Notre Dame penalties eight minutes into the period gave Ohio State a five-on­three opportunity, and the Buckeye power play got the first goal of the game. Ohio State captain Jean-Francois Dufour fired a shot from 15 feet out that glanced off Notre Dame goalie Kyle Kolquist's stick and into the back of the net. 
The teams went into the sec­ond intermission with Ohio State nursing a one-goal lead. In the third period, it took a Notre Dame penalty to wake up the offense. Irish freshman Aaron Gill was called for hooking 5:27 into the period. 
But instead of Ohio State scoring. it was the Irish. 
Senior Dan Carlson stole the puck behind the Ohio State net and placed a perfect pass to linemate Ryan Dolder. Dolder skated around OSU goalie Mike Betz, and fired the puck home to tie the game. 
The tie only lasted five min­utes until the Buckeyes scored a controversial goal. Ohio State freshman R.J. Umberger took the puck up the right side and towards the Notre Dame net. 
As he approached the goal, he lost both his balance and the puck and Umberger flew at Irish goalie Kolquist. The goal came off the pegs and the puck crossed the line. The ref-erees decided that the puck crossed first and Ohio State took a 2-1 lead with just nine minutes left in the game. 

"Whoever scored that sec­ond goal (for Ohio State) must have made a fantastic play," said Kolquist. "I didn't see it at all, I just saw the guy com­ing at me." 
Notre Dame was able to come back thanks to a scuffle after the whistle. With 4:55 left in the game Notre Dame's Dan Carlson and Ohio State's Jaisen Freeman were each given a two-minute penalty for hitting after the whistle. 
On the ensuing four-on-four situation, a tieup occurred in front of the Buckeye goal. The puck bounced out to David Inman, who put it away to tie the game. 
"It's been awhile," said Inman about finally scoring a goal. "It wasn't pretty, I was just glad to be in the right place at the right time." 
The game ended in a tie after a back and forth over­time that saw each team take one shot. 
"We thought we played well (on Saturday)." Inman said. "We were disappointed; we would like to have a win." 
The loss a.nd tie keep the Irish in the CCHA basement, but leave them within striking distance of 10th place Lake Superior State. Notre Dame has 10 points and is still just two points out of the last CCHA playoff spot. 

Coach Poulin feels his team is playing well, staying scrap­py and refusing to quit when the puck doesn't bounce its way. 
"We don't feel like we have a last place hockey team," Poulin said. "We want to see things bounce our way. I am a firm believer that those bounces all work out in the end." 
Things don't get any easier for the Irish as they travel to Ann Arbor on Tuesday for a rare mid-week game against No. 9 Michigan. The Wolverines currently sit in second place in the CCHA, five points behind top-ranked Michigan State. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edir
CLASSIFIEDS 

all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Nice and large 2 bedroom apart-Parents who are ND grads seek PET REFUGEE, a no-kill animal Molly, thanks for a great Thursday ment for rent. Close to campus in a older female babysitter to care for shelter juts 1 Omin. from campus, night on my first Heartland voyage. quiet and safe area. Small pets ok. lwo girls ages 7 & 9, one or two needs volunteers and fosters. If this stuff happens every Thursday 
TICKETS FOR RENT 
313 North Frances. Not a driveby. weekend evenings & occationally Please call 256-0886 or visit night, sure, Colleen can drive -but Need two GA's to the Men's Hoops Rent is $425 a month. Excludes weekends or evenings in our home. www.!le:lce:!us;ie:,1.Qm and email us. are we sure calling Mike is such a game against G'town on 3/4. Will 3-5 BEDROOM HOMES utilities. Call 232-1242 Ask for Must have own car. Call Judith and good idea?! pay cash or swap for tix to Seton CLOSE TO CAMPUS John. leave message: 287-0260. Summer Jobs with gifted kids 
Hall game on 2/18 232-2595 Northwestern University's Center Shoutout to BDM! (and other, uh, mmmre:ntal:i~aQli;;Qm NICE HOMES FOR NEXT Great job opportunity: for Talent Development is hiring small. well, you know) Call Mike 287-2562. SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND Care for adorable children 1 morn-resideniial counselorsffas. HOUSES FOR RENT: GOOD AREA 277-3097. ing a week. 254-9466 Experience w/kids pref. Colleen, we rock. That's all I have 
All that you can't leave behind! 1) 5-br $900/month. Room/board provided for coun-to say. We must repeat our adven-Selling 2 U2 tickets for cost. 2) 4-br $1000/month. IDEAL 3-4 BEDROOM HOUSE 2 Rock/Funk Band looking for Bass selors. Comp. Salary, great work lures! Chicago, May 15 3) 3-br $600/month. BLOCKS EAST OF ND 277-3097 player. Interested? Call Jason at 4-experience 6/24-8/12 + training_ To Leave message for Patrick We'll make almost any changes to 1639. apply, call (847)-467-7884 Who needs a posse? 243-7753 the houses. Call Bill at 675-0776 All the good homes are not gone! 
We have 2, 4&5 bedroom houses Advertising sales Connolly and Frasso ­HOUSEFOR LEASE 7/01 five minutes from campus! Are you a self starter eager to work too bad you'll never see the tree
PERSONAL

FOR SALE 4/5 SEDAM. 3 BLOCKS TO CAM-Dave 291-2209 for the most respected advertising frog PUS. 773-486-8822 MgQQS~!IliQhiaoa. Q[g company? Are you interested in a PHONE CARDS long lasting and rewarding career Beautiful brass bed, queen size, let's go giants House for rent near ND. selling to business owners? You with orthopedic mattress set and $20 -2601 min with .49 cent sur-2 bedrooms_ No pets $525 plus can easily start earning $40k/year + deluxe frame. All new, never used, it's time to go.
WANTED

charge deposit. 219-654-8157. bonuses and perks and head up still in plastic. $235 219-862-2082 or our new South Bend territory. let's wrap this up. $20 -362 min with no surcharge IDEAL 3-4 BEDROOM HOUSE 2 Rock/Funk Band looking for Bass Please fax your resume and a brief WE MISS YOU, PATRICK so we can go home. 634-4210 sara BLOCKS EAST OF ND player. Interested? Call Jason at 4-letter telling us why you're the one. 
277-3097 1639. 888-206-4054 OK, here we go. bye 
-

Monday, January 22, 200 l page 13
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
INTERNSHIP FAIR 2001 
QUALITY OF LIFE IN THE WORKPLACE 
Sponsored by The Career Center 
Wednesday, January 24, 2001 
12:00 noon -4:00 p.m. 
Bring your resumes to the Joyce Center North Dome (Hockey Rink Side) 

Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago  Musiker Tours and Summer Discovery  Visually Impaired  
First Investors Corporation  Northwest Voyageurs  Westinghouse Electric Company  
Governmental Studies Program  Paramount  WISH-TV  
Greenburgh Nature Center  Sagemark Consultants  Young and Laramore  
Indianapolis Convention and  Solomon E.T.C. Architecture and  
Visitors Association  Urban Design  


----' 

II page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, January 22, 200 l 
\ 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Belles lose fifth straight; fall to Bulldogs 59-52 
Rev. Steve Newton, C.S.C., President and Chief Executive Officer of The Wilson Foundation, has announed that all members of the Notre Dame and St. Mary's College Community are invited to participate in the design of a new award, named in honor of Notre Dame's Emeritus Rev. Theodore M. Hessburgh, C.S.C. The award -The Hesburgh Award for International Human Development -will be given annually by the Wilson Foundation to honor lives of commitment to international human development in terms of new economic, social and political structures in the third world. The first recipient will be Fr. Hesburgh himself. He will be presented the award at a May 7 ceremony in New York City. 
It is expected that each design submitted will incorporate the logo of the foundation, some depiction of inemational development and these thoughts of Fr. Hes burgh, from his Book God, Country, Notre Dame: 
"One ofthe greatest heresies is that in our modern world one person cannot make a difference. I do not believe that for one moment. I know it is factually inaccurate. One person or group ofpersons can make an enourmous difference · in our lives and our way ofliving. History is replete with heroic people who realized that they could make a difference and did -despite the conventional wisdon ofthe day." 
The Wilson Foundation exists to assure the delivery of quality treatment for addictive illnesses to persons who are denied access to such, espe­
cially in areas served by the Congregation of Holy Cross.  Current foundation focus is on the countries of East Africa.  Locally, Life Treatment  
Centers is the key partner of the foundation's efforts.  
Design Competition  
The Wilson Foundation  
1402 S. Michigan St.  
South Bend, IN 46613  

219-233-5433 .The decision of The Wilson Foundation judges is final. Design samples will be returned if requested. 

I I I I , 
t li 
I 
I ' 
i l 
I 1 
I I 
I I 
I 
I I I I I I I I 
By KATIE McVOY 
Assistant Sports Editor 
It was close, but there were no cigars for the Belles basketball team Saturday at Angela Athletic Facility. 
S a i n t 
Mary's dropped its fifth straight game as the Belles lost to the Adrian Bulldogs 59­52, drop­ping their 

record to 1-Smith 5 in the 
MIM. 
With only 40 seconds left in the game and trailing 52-48, Anne Blair made a foul shot, one of her team-high 12 points, bring­ing the Belles within three. 
However, Katie Christiansen fouled Adrian's Allison Keobaugh and sent her to the line. Keobaugh made the shot and put the game back in double possession difference. A turnover by Sean Russel and another Bulldogs score ended the game. 
"We just haven't clicked," head coach Suzanne Smith said. "The Bulldogs clicked and shot." 
Adrian's Annie Morton hit a two-point shot from the line to begin the game and take the lead. The Bulldogs never gave up that lead. 
In a foul-ridden game, a strong attack from the Belles defense kept Adrian's three leading scor­

ers, Morton. Keobaugh, and 
Sarah Vincke, to a lower than 
average total of 39 points. But 
the Belles' offense just couldn't 
get the job done. 
Eight minutes into the first 
half, Saint Mary's had only 
scored five points and had not 
gotten one offensive rebound. 
The Belles continued to miss the 
offensive boards for the rest of 
the half and went into half time 
down 24-18. 
..We were focusing on other 
things [than rebounds] at that 
time," Christiansen said. 
Adrian's aggressive play kept Saint Mary's on the outside, which contributed to its · rebounding woes and the team's 
inabililty to get inside shots. 
"They were doing a good job 
inside," freshman guard Katie 
Miller said. "It was hard for our 
posts to get shots, so we passed 
in to them and they had to pass 
out to us." 
In addition to Adrian's inside 
control, the Bulldogs scored on 
several Saint Mary's turnovers 
under the basket. 
"We were thinking too much 
ahead," Smith said. "We weren't 
focusing on what needed to get 
done then." 
The Belles came back looking 
to win in the second half. After 
falling behind by 14, Kelly 
Roberts. Miller, Julie Norman, 
Christiansen and Katie Gamache 
teamed together for 10 points, 
bringing the Belles within five at 
40-35. 
That's when the comeback 
began: 
"\Ve took control; we weren't With four minutes left, the tentative," Smith said. "We knew Belles threatened again on a what we were doing." Miller two-pointer that brought 
"We pushed the ball more and the game within four. attacked their press," Miller Blair's foul shot brought the added. game within three with 40 sec­
With seven minutes left the onds left, but the Belles fell Belles were down by just five. short. But Adrian stepped up its play, Miller and Norman put up 10 increasing the lead to 10. and nine points apiece, respec­
the department of film, television, and theatre 
presents 

notre 
ame 
~ 


festival 2001 
advanced tickets on sale at Lafortune 
{c,,lliie tne, last . 

~riday • saturday • monday 
snite museum of art $4.00 admission 
tively. Blair and Roberts led in rebounds, each with four offen­sive boards and six defensive boards, most of which came in the second half. 
For Adrian, Vincke led with 15 points, and Morton led the Bulldogs in rebounds, racking up eight defensive boards and four oITensive boards. 

w_,~fLft ... 1lm's ~ 




. 

Monday, January 22, 2001 page 15
The Observer . SPORTS 
Men 
continued from page 20 
personal fouls in the first half and tempers clashed when Mountaineer forward Chris Moss stepped on Irish forward Jere Macura's face after a West Virginia offen­sive play. Oflicials awarded Moss his first of two techni­cal fouls, as Irish players had to restrain an upset Macura. 
Moss' second technical foul came midway through the second half when he fouled out, and officials, Mountaineer head coach Gale Catlett and two assis­tant coaches had to restrain him. 
A West Virginia coach had to escort an irate Moss off the court as the junior starter spit at the Notre Dame student section, hit­ting an Irish cheerleader. 
"He was claiming he got shoved and pushed all day," Catlett said. "He has a few personal problems ­a mother that is dying and playing out of position lead­ing to the frustration.... It will be corrected." 
Irish forward Ryan Humphrey was also award­ed a technical foul in the second half for reacting angrily after getting fouled while taking a shot under 

Information Session: 
January 23 (Tues.) 
6:30 PM 
Center for Social Concerns 

• eight week§ ofService-Leaming 
• 3 creaits • $1900.00 Scfwfarsfiip • sponsorea 6y a{umni c{u6s across tfie 'U.S. 
Deadline for application: February 7th Applications at the Center for Social Concerns 
Interviews in progress now! 
Stop by the Center for more information and ask your Hall Rep. (See poster in Hall) 

C(NfE• 

SOCIAL CONCERNS 
the basket. 
Physical play proved only to hinder, not help, the Mountaineers as the Irish inflated a 37-30 halftime lead into a 22-point margin late in the second half. 
Irish point guard Martin Ingclsby gave his team a boost, scoring 10 of his 14 points in the second half, while Humphrey added 12 on the day. 
Despite battling through the Irish double team, Calvin Bowman carried the Mountaineers with 22 points. Teammate Lionel Armstead added 15. 
Armstead was pivotal in the Mountaineers' initial push, scoring 10 points in the first half, but the Irish quickly adjusted to shut the guard and the rest of the West Virginia offense down. 
"Man to man [defense] bailed us out," Brey said. "\Ve did a great job in it. We're getting better on defense." 
Sunday's game was remi­niscent of last year's Notre Dame-\\Test Virginia matchup when the Irish dug themselves out of a 17­point hole to earn a win. 
The Irish have little time to recover from Sunday's win as they face another conference rival, 15-2 Syracuse. on Tuesday. 

Calm, nitty-gritty work wins games 
It's a good thing All-American power forward Troy Murphy used to travel into the heart of Newark, N.J., to play in the St. Rocco's Church League. He needed the lessons learned on the streets -getting elbowed without retaliating, ignoring opponents' trash talk and playing through uncalled fouls -to keep his cool in Sunday's free­for-all against West Virginia. 
"I thought we showed a lot of poise dealing with all the distrac­tions," Murphy said. "Before the ball was even thrown up, they were [trash] talking." 
Murphy and the rest of the Irish managed to avoid the major outbursts that helped send the Mountaineers home in defeat. Two technical fouls by Chris Moss, the second of which resulted in Moss raging at the referees, being physically 
. dragged off the court by three West Virginia coaches and spit­ting on an Irish cheerleader, didn't help the Mountaineers' cause. 


Referees whistled Moss for his 
first technical with one minute, 
31 seconds to play in the first 
period when he stepped on the 
face of Irish reserve Jere 
Macura. Irish players Matt 
Carroll and David Graves quickly 
got their arms around Macura, 
restraining their teammate and 
preventing him from striking 
back at Moss. 
The Irish were no saints, with Ryan Humphrey called for a technical midway through the second period. Humphrey was fouled in the act of shooting, and jumped up and into the face of Mountaineer Michael Ayodele. 
But it was West Virginia's Moss 
that carried the play beyond just 
physical Big East bruising and 
into the unacceptable and 
unheard of. 
"I've coached 38 years and that's never happened. It will be corrected," Mountaineer coach Gale Catlett said when informed after the game that Moss had spit on a female cheerleader. "He was claiming all day that he'd been shoved and pushed, and the officials weren't calling it. He just lost his cool." · Catlett had not yet decided on whether Moss would be further punished, but said the junior, who has tallied double digits seven times this year, is in the midst of some personal prob­lems, including the fact that Moss's mother is near death. 
After the game, Irish coach Mike Brey said keeping players' tempers under control is always a concern. 
"You get these kids to play at a fever pitch, especially when you're on the road and the crowd's kind of on you," Brey said. "I thought they did a great job trying to calm him down." 
The Irish played dirty in their own way, one that didn't hurt their chances of victory. 
They responded to a post-game chat after a Jan. 13 loss in Lexington, Kentucky, to the Kentucky Wildcats, and started digging in on defense, scram­bling for loose balls and going full-tilt for rebounds. Brey insert­ed forward Harold Swanagan into the starting lineup in place of Graves last Tuesday as Graves nursed a sprained ankle. 
The switch in the starting five, while it may have bruised Graves' ego a bit, appeared to work. It gave the Irish a surge of 
hustle and jolted Graves into a 
better defensive effort, so Brey 
stuck with what was working. 
"vVe're just taking it game by 
game. I still think of myself as a 
starter," Graves said. "The six of 
us [Murphy, Humphrey, point 
guard Martin lngelsby, Carroll, 
Swanagan and Graves], we're all 
starters. I don't really care, as 
long as I'm on the floor and con­
tributing to the team. 
"The games that I play very 
well on defense," Graves contin­
ued, "I usually have an all­
around good game. The times 
that I concentrate on shooting, 
I'm just an average player." 
Against West Virginia, Graves 
put up a solid effort across the 
board. Graves took over 
Swanagan's role of Super-Sub, 
leading Irish scorers with 17 
points. He and Swanagan each 
pulled down a team-high nine 
rebounds, as did Humphrey. 
After two-and-a-half years as a 
starter, suddenly finding himself 
on the bench at the opening 
whistle can't have been easy for 
Graves. It came as a tough 
adjustment for Swanagan at the 
start of the season when he lost 
his starting spot to Humphrey. 
But the best thing for the Irish and their hopes of making it to the NCAA Tournament might be ignoring whose name is announced on the loudspeaker as a starter. They might need to make adjustments on a game-to­game basis. All six guys, the main contributors for the Irish, are going to get their minutes, but an opposing team's larger lineup or one player's shooting slump may necessitate lineup changes from time to time. 
The cornerstone for Irish suc­cess may be Brey' s ability to massage his team's egos and their swiftness at adjusting to the changes. 
As Murphy said after Sunday's game, "It's not me against them. It's Notre Dame against \Vest Virginia. Whether I have zero baskets or 30 baskets. I'd rather win." 
Hopefully, those words are from the heart, and echo the sentiments of his teammates. After all, wins are what matters. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Late Night Check Friday's 
Olympics 

Observer for the Schedule of all LNO First Round Games/Matches! 

Rock/Funk band looking for bass player. 
Interested? Contact Jason at 4-1639 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, January 22, 2001 
Irish still hungry despite biggest win in program history 
I think many of us had two ers, Niele Ivey, Alicia Ratay and Not quite. things in common besides regis­Ruth Riley, played all 40 min­"We didn't really talk about it tering for classes last Monday: utes. a lot," McGraw said. "It was just we went to the women's basket­Think it affected their play? in the air." ball game Well, let's see. \Vhile the Irish still haven't against The starting backcourt went 5-reached their goal of winning Connecticut, for-7 from behind the arc, and the Big East Conference, they're and we Ivey added 10 assists to go with a lot closer than they were just a expected her 14 points. week ago. Coach McGraw didn't the No. 1 Then there's Ruth Hiley, the appear worried that her team Huskies to All-American, who proved that might let up after beating run their status over and over again in the UConn: "This team's focused." winning face of an overmatched UConn The coach reflects the attitude streak to 31 defense. Twenty-nine points. of her team, and the team games. eight of 11 from the floor, a per­reflects the attitude of its coach. 
The 92-76 fect 13 of 13 from the line, 12 Right from the start of her head Irish win boards. five blocks. and too coaching days at Notre Dame, surprised many perfect passes thrown out McGraw and her teams won a everyone of double and triple teams to lot. But the coach was never sat­but the even count. isfied. women The one still playing on my "We won 20 games every year wearing the own highlight reel came in the almost," McGraw said, "but it gold uniforms, a fitting color for first half, thrown from the blotk just was never enough." such a big time win. around a triple team down the The Irish didn'tjoin the Big 
"The difference in the game baseline to Ratay for a wide­East until the 1995-96 season, was in our attitude," coach open three in the corner. and the team felt the frustrations Muffet McGraw said. "We ff that sentence sounds jum­of playing in conferences, first believed that we could win." bled and confusing. then it accu­the North Star and then the 
Despite its 0-11 mark before rately represents what trying to Midwestern Collegiate, that Monday's win against its Big make that decision and pass in didn't provide automatic berths East nemesis. McGraw has seen one second is like. into the NCAA Tournament. a winning attitude all year long, Unless, of course, you're an "Joining the Big East cibility is gone. she describes as confident, especially from the older play­All-American, and you and your Conference," McGraw said, "I "Just finally getting over that focused, and fun to be around. ers. "From the beginning of the entire team are taking every­think turned our whole program hump and knowing we can beat Add its evident talent, and Irish 
year, it was like: "We're going to body's No. 1 to school. Then you around." this team," as McGraw described women's basketball has a 
beat UConn this year. We're just mark it up· as three more Since joining the Big East, it, was a big deal for the Irish. chance to pick up some great seniors. We haven't done it yet. points (she hit the shot) and go Notre Dame has made it to the Many observers probably still hardware this year. This is it. We've got them at play defense. "Big Dance" every year, going all think the once defeated UConn It got a big win in that journey home, and let's take care of So what was Coach McGraw's the way to the Final Four iri Huskies will win the Big East on Monday. But neither the play­
business."' master strategy to come away 1997. Despite all this success, Tournament, in no small part ers nor their coach look like 
Notre Dame couldn't have with probably the biggest win in and a third-ranked national poll because it will be played in they'll be happy to take their big taken care of business much bet­the history of the program? New rating going into Monday's game Storrs, Conn. on UConn's home win and leave. ter. Consider the following: shoes? Passing out leis to the with UConn, Notre Dame still floor. When asked what the That just wouldn't be enough. Notre Dame employed a six­students? The halftime game wasn't even the best team in three toughest places to play in player rotation while UConn between a motley crew of corpo­their conference. women's college basketball are, The views expressed in this 
attacked with eleven, often rate mascots, including every­Now, even though the Irish are McGraw didn't hesitate before column are those ofthe author applying full-court pressure. one's favorite. the deflating still just 1-11 against the saying: "Storrs is definitely one." and not necessarily those ofThe That meant that three Irish play-chicken? Huskies, UConn's aura of invin-On her side, she has a team Observer. 



Summer Positions Availabl~: 
Notre Dame Athletic Department Sports Camp Office 40 Hours/Week Please Call: 631-8788 


Spring Break Seminars 
March 10-18, 2001 Experiential/Service Learning 
Center for Social Concerns 
APPALACHIA SEMINAR 
-> Work and learn at one of 10 sites in the Appalachian region 
-> An ND tradition of service-learning 

WANT TO MAKE A 
DIFFERENCE IN THE LIFE OF ACHILD THIS SUMMER? 
COME FOR A JOB INTERVIEW TO WORK AT: 
CAMP SWEENY 
A RESIDENTIAL SPORTS CAMP fN NORTH TEXAS FOR CHILDREN WITH DIABETES. INTERVIEWS THURSDAY AND FRIDAY, JANUARY 25TH AND 26TH FROM 9:00 AM TO 5:00 PM IN FLANNER HALL. 
Camp Sweeny is an equal opportunity employer. 
L'ARCHE COMMUNITY SEMINAR 
->  . Live for a week in community with persons with disabilities  
->  Read the work of Jean Vanier, Henri Nouwen  

MIGRANT EXPERIENCES SEMINAR 
-> Work in the fields with migrant workers -> Assist agencies that serve migrants -> Live with migrant families 
WASHINGTON SEMINAR 
Theme: International Humanitarian Issues 
-> Direct contact with political, agency, and Church leaders in Washington, D.C. 
-> Service and political awareness opportunities 



All seminars offer one academic credit 

CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL 

Applications Available Now at the CSC CONCERNS A p p 1i c a t i o n s D u e: Ja n. 31, 2001 
Monday, January 22, 2001 page 17
The Observer . SPORTS 
Williams 
continued from page 20 
regarding Williams's projection in the draft. 
"When that came back, it may have been higher than Brock expected," Davie told The Associated Press on Friday. "He went about things the right way. What I have to do now is help him as much as I can and move on." 
It is unclear when Williams informed Davie of his final deci­sion. Davie was unavailable for comment on Sunday. 
"This is definitely a big loss," Davie told The Associated Press. "He's one of the most important, if not the most important, play­ers we were counting on next season." 
Williams's departure leaves a large void at cornerback. Shane Walton, Jason Beckstrom, Clifford Jefferson, Vontez Duff and Preston Jackson will com­pete for the starting positions for next season. 
Williams recorded 49 tackles during the 2000 season. His best game of the year came against USC, when the cornerback broke up five passes. 
WOMEN'S TRACK AND FIELD 
Grow, King lead Notre Dame to meet win 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
Irish junior Liz Grow promised a team win this weekend. She backed up that promise with a pair of victo­ries in the 
200 meters and the 400 meters and sopho­m o r e Tameisha King won t h r e e events as 


N  o t  r  e  Grow  
Dame w on  
Friday  night's tri-meet  

against Ball State and Western Michigan. 
Notre Dame eked out a nar­row victory over Ball State, scoring 125 points to the Cardinals' 121. Western Michigan was a distant third with 63 points. 
Grow, last year's Big East champion in the 400 meters, had one of the most exciting 
races. With about 250 meters to go, Grow was in third place. Within 100 meters, though, the junior flew past Ball State's Jada Phelps and Western Michigan's Angela Cole-Curry to win the race in an NCAA provisional qualify­ing time of 54. 61 seconds, nearly a second and a half faster than second-place 
Phelps. 
"It felt like I had a really good start, and I was relaxed when I broke in," said Grow. "l ran really relaxed and turned it on in the last 100." 
Grow also took first in the 
200 meters, winning in 24.49 
seconds. 
"I didn't e.xpect to go this fast this early in the season," she said. "I can't wait to race more and see what I can do."' 
King continued right where she left off last season in the long jump, winning the event with a jump of 19 feet, four inches. The sophomore also took first in the 60-meter dash with a time of 7. 7 sec­onds and won the 60-meter hurdles in 8.63 seconds. 
"I think she's capable of going even faster in the hur­dles," said Irish sprint coach John Millar. 
Irish freshman Kristen Dodd had an impressive colle­giate debut. She took second in the 60-meter dash, only three-hundredths of a second behind King, and placed third in the 200 meter dash with a time of 25.24 seconds. 
In the pole vault, assistant coach Scott Winsor's decision not to enter sophomore Jaime Volkmer paid off as freshman Jill Van Weelden and junior Natalie Hallett both broke Volkmer's indoor school record. Both vaulters cleared 11 '4", besting Volkmer's mark by a quarter-inch. Van Weelden was awarded first place since she had fewer misses than Hallett did. 
"I felt Natalie and Jill kind of fed off each other," said Winsor. "A little competitive­ness is always a good thing." 
Volkmer placed in all three events in which she compet­ed. She took third in both the high jump and in the triple jump, and placed sixth in the long jump. 
Irish freshman Jennifer Kearney won her first colle­giate event, the high jump, by clearing 5'3". -Kearney and Ball State's Ayesha George actually jumped the same. height, but in the tiebreaker, George had more misses than Kearney did. 
"She's a freshman, it was her first meet, and I think she really needed that win," Winsor said. "She needed that before she jumps into the fry­ing pan against tons and tons of talent." 
Notre Dame's distance run­ners also made an impressive debut. 
In the 800 meter run, fresh­man Megan Johnson surged ahead of the pack at the 400­meter mark and crossed the line first, winning in 2:16. Senior Leanne Brady followed Johnson across the line to take second place. 
"I told the 800 runners that if we wanted to win the meet, we needed to go one-two," 
said  distance  coach  Tim  
Connelly.  
In  the  mile,  sophomore  

Jennifer Handley lost to Ball State's Katie Nowak by a mere three-tenths of a sec­ond. With one lap to go, Handley led Nowak by about three meters. However. Nowak pulled even with Handley on the back straight­away, and then inched into the lead with approximately 20 meters to go. 
"I thought she raced very well," Connelly said of Handley's effort. "That's the best I've ever seen her com­pete." 
Junior Chrissy Kuenster and sophomore Jennifer Fibuch placed second and third in the 3,000-mctcr run. 
Notre Dame's next competi­tion is this Friday against Michigan State in the Loftus Sports Complex. 
Recycle The Observer. 

We didn't become Fortune"' magazine's America's Most Admired Company* by accepting the status quo. We got there by hiring and training confident graduates with the courage to think in innovative and revolutionary ways. 
No other corporation can match the diversity of oppor­tunities at GE. Because we have small company attitudes with large con1pa11y strengths, we set no limits, no boundaries. You can move from industry to industry, discipline to discipline, and never leave GE. 
We're a leader in every business we compete in, and we're looking for leaders like Trent who will take us even further. Start your career by visiting our website now. An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
Learn about us at 

www.gecareers.com 
Come meet GErepresentatives to leam about internship opportunities for summer2001. 
2001 Notre Dame Internship Fair 
January 24th 12:00-4:00 PM Joyce Center Field House 
Please bring a copy of your resume. 

__________________________.:.:Wl:.:.e bring good things to life. 
GE Aircraft Engines· GE Appliances· GE Capital Services· GE Corporate Research and Development• GE Industrial Systems GE Global eXchange Services· GE lighting· GE Medical Systems· GE Plastics· GE Powe1 Systems• GE Supply• GE Transportation Systems, NBC ·2121100 
NOBODY DIES BREAKS BETTER! 

===.:====~ 

www.sunc ase.com 
1•800,SUNCHASI 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, January 22, 200 I 
MEN'S TRACK AND FIELD 
Gilbert races into spotlight with strong shoWing 

By NOAH AMSTADTER Assistant Sports Editor 
Last season as a freshman, Tom Gilbert ran in the shadow of Marshaun West, the defend­ing Big East Outdoor champion in the 200 meters and long jump. 
This season with West gradu­ated. there is no more hiding. 
Behind victories by Gilbert in the long jump and 200 meters -as well as his third-place fin­ish in the 60 meters -the Irish men's track team won its sea­son opening tri-meet Friday night in Loftus. Notre Dame's 125 points topped Ball State's 111 and Western Michigan's 87. 
Gilbert proved to be the cata­lyst. His jump of 23-feet, 2 1/2 inches topped teammate Godwin Mbagwu's leap of 22-5 3/4. Field events coach Scott 

) I ' Winsor thinks his sophomore 
) } ; can jump even further. 
1, "I don't think he jumped as far as he wanted to officially," said \Vinsor. "But I think he had a couple of jumps where he scratched that were way out there." Gilbert also excelled on the track. His time of 21. 7'4 seconds in the 200 meters easily topped Coye Bouyer of Western Michigan, who finished second in 22.08. Gilbert's time of 6.99 in the 60 meters was less than a tenth behind teammate Travis Davey's winning time of 6.91. "I'm in pretty good shape," said Gilbert. "I've been training for a long time, so I was pretty confident. I just took it out and I ran faster than I probably would have in the first meet." Mbagwu. a freshman from Virginia, also helped the Irish excel in the jumps. Besides his second-place finish in the long jump, Mbagwu took first in the triple jump with a personal best leap of 50-4 3/4. ""I was very pleased. We couldn't have asked for much more than what he started out with," said Winsor. "Those are two pretty good marks for a freshman in his first meet." In the high jump, the Irish were energized by the return of Andrew Cooper, who sat out last season. Cooper cleared the bar at 6-foot-9 inches to take second in the event. "That's a pretty good start. Hopefully we can continue to get some more strength on him. All I'm doing right now· is harp­ing on him about speed," said Winsor. "You can't be fast enough running to the bar." Also excelling in the jumps for the Irish was junior Quill Redwine, who captured second in the triple jump at 49-3 and third in the high jump. clearing 6-7. 
Nick Setta, known better for his exploits kicking field goals for the Irish in the fall, was impressive in the 500-meter run. His time of 1 :04. 92 was good for second place overall. Setta, however, was placed in the slower of the two heats and did not have a chance to race head to head with Western Michigan's Coye Bouyer, who won the event in a time of 1:04.65. 
"I wish I would have been able to run with the fast guys," said Setta. 
In the 400 meters, the future of the Irish eclipsed the present, and freshman James Bracken beat out veteran senior Terry Wray in the final steps to take second overall. 
Bracken's time of 49.61 sec­onds was just behind the 49.50 by Western Michigan's James Culver and just ahead of Wray's 49.72. 
In the 800-meter run, senior Nate Andrulonis ran an impres­sive 1:55.41 to take second overall. 
The Irish dominated oppo­nents in the mile. Junior Pat Conway broke away from the pack in the final lap to win in a time of 4:14.51. Marc Striowski and John Keane took third and fourth, respectively. while Ryan Shay took sixth. 
·Shay -a defending All­American in the 10,000 meters -led the event in the early laps before being passed up in the final turn. 
"He's basically a 10,000 meter 
man running a mile," said Irish 
head coach Joe Piane. "He's not 
accustomed to racing at that 
tempo." 
Also impressive on the track 
was senior Seah Zanderson, 
who took second in the 3,000 
meters in a time of 8:41. 91, fol­
lowed bv freshman Todd 
Mobley' s.fifth -place time of 
8:54.02. 
Two areas of concern for the 
Irish were the pole vault and 
the throws. 
In the vault, the Irish took 
second and third, with sopho­
more Nathan Cahill's 15-foot-6 
vault eclipsing junior Josh 
I-leek's vault of 15 feet. 
Freshman Joe Yanoff failed to 
clear the opening height. 
Despite their high finishes, 
Winsor expected more from his 
vaulters. 
"We're going to need some­
thing from those guys at the Big 
East level in order for us to be 
in the hunt," said Winsor. "15-6 
and 15 feet isn't going to cut it. 
They're both capable of much 
more than that." 
In the shot put, junior Derek 
Dyer took sixth place with a 
throw of 14.2 meters, well off 
\Vestern Michigan's Dale 
Cooper's winning throw of 

'j ' 
19.56 meters. Sophomore Brian Thornburg Senior John Scolaro took sixth 
Winsor did find improvement took fifth with a personal-best with a throw of 51-fcet 3 inches, in the 35-pound weight throw. throw of 52-feet 4 inches. also a personal best. 
In The Market For A New Or Used Vehicle? We Can Help! Rates As Low As O/OAPR* -~.·-------.' ,, . ..0 NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 219/239-6611 www.ndfcu.org Loan-=by-Phone 800/567-6328@ *Annual Percentage Rate. Rates are subject to change without notice. Certain restrictions may(etll •OUSIIC LENDER apply. No refinances of Notre Dame Federal Credit Union loans apply. Independent of the University.  
~ I College of Arts and Lettersi:::,f \ \ I Urtiversity of Notre Dame0 .,.,If JJ:.._'Ol": The College of Arts and Letters Invites Student Nominations for Kaneb Teaching Awards · Each year Kaneb Teaching Awards recognize approximately 25 Arts and Letters faculty for excellence in undergraduate teaching. Tenured faculty as well as professional specialist and adjunct faculty who have taught at least five years are eligible. Take advantage of this opportunity to have a voice in the selection of these recipients by nominating one of your outstanding teachers for this award. Send a brief letter indicating what is special or significant about this instructor to: Dian Murray, Associate Dean 101 O'Shaughnessy Hall Deadline Monday, February 5, 2001  

Monday, January 22, 200 l 
The Observer . TODAY page 19 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
OU> HABITS t>IE HARD FOA THE INCOMIN& PRESIDENT 

Fox TROT 
C 2000 Bill Arnen<IIOis1 by 1/11"'""81 (',eu Svndlellll 
PETER! YOU'RE 

PETER! THE CAR WAS ON 
ORIVlN& ALMOST TWo WHEELS BACIC THERE!
,
OOUSLE THE 
SPEED LIMIT! 

)J_ 
~ 
PETER! YOU Took THAT BUMP So HARO MY SHOES CAM£ UNTIED! 
. I 
TYLERTOM KEELEY 

THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 


;;, 
That lIttle. booK 
co~ts iso.00 '? 
' ) 

No, tht. penc.ds ore. 'so . Ttit. ,­boo K 1$ •.200 .• • 
BILL AMEND 
THoSE AREN'T CHECIC MEANT AS IT OUT! COMPLIMENTS, ZERO•Gt SY T~E WAY. (( 
I
"" ' "\ r 

i:01~J-,;;.._r.__.....,_-1-_ 

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
ACROSS 28 Declare up or 47 "Porgy" author down _Heyward
1 Project 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON emotions. Don't wear your heart 29 Supports a 48 Protect, in a THIS DAY: Steve Perry, Linda on your sleeve. 000
9 Noted novel in 
foundation way Blair, John Hurt, Bill Bixby, Sam VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22):
the guise of a 

Cooke, Olivia D'Abo, Diane Don't be too demanding or nega­
posthumously 31 Prior to 52 An inventor of 
Lane, Piper Laurie, Michael tive with youngsters. You tend to
published the microphone 
32 Cuddled Hutchence want the best for everyone you
memoir 

Happy Birthday: You're a real love. Your desires may lead to
53 French33 Theater sign 
15 Sitting room? go-getter, eager to tread where isolation or retaliation. 000
confections 
36 Screen behind a others fear to go. You will have LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22):
16 Old-time actress 
church altar 54 Substitute no problem standing up for your Direct your mind to areas that
Rich and. others 

scepter-wielder beliefs this rear. Your competitive will bring you .closer to advance­
37 Movies,

17 Finnie language nature wil help you determine ment. Greater self-esteem will
55 Least ruffledinformally 
the best way to reach your goals. result from your accomplishments.
1fl Bibliographical 
You will be lucky in love as long Don't waste your time trying
listings 38 •Murder Must 

as you're honest regarding your to deal with erratic individuals. 
Advertise" writer DOWN
19 Rings feelings. Clear your head before 0000 20 Square space in 41 Western herd 1 Wolf or devil you promise too much to too SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): preceder many. Spreading yourself too Pursue competitive outdoor acti­
a frieze 43 School recital 

thin will be your downfall. Your vities that will be sure to bring
21 They fix 44 Grant 2 Person with an 
numbers: 6, 14, 22, 26, 33, 40 you the stimulation you require.
everything estate 
A~IES (March 21-April 19): You will be able to motivate oth­
45 Old-fashioned 

25 Jagged 3 Speak with Get into self-improvement proj­ers in a positive manner that will 
warning 

ects that will take your mind off bring favorable results. 0000
gravity26 Huntress who 
~ 46 Two residents of your troubles. Necessary changes SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. married the Old Man's 4 Bach piece in your home environment may 21): Stay away from those risky Hippomenes beard, in a Lear not be welcome, but they will be financial ventures that you find 
5 Canon rival 
favorable in the long run. 00 so tempting. Don't make major
27 Mime's venue verse 
6 Non alternative? TAURUS (April 20-May 20): decisions too quickly. Your need Someone you least expect may to exaggerate will get you into
7TV's

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE try to lead you in the wrong di­trouble. 000
Network 
rection. Investment opportunities CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 
Puma by Plltrtc:k B4lrry

8 It's an honor will be favorable as long as you 19): You can expect those you live go it alone and don't partake in with to have their own ideas
24 Pacific Coast 38 Gardener, at 48 Records that 9 Important trials 
jointventures.000 about how they want things done 
food fish times may be broken 
10 Fixed GEMINI (May 21-June 20): around the house. Don't argue; 30 Peerlessly 39 Refer 49 Unit of land Rest and relaxation will be neces­just work in your own space and
11 Magazine 
sary. Watch your diet and your avoid getting into heated debates. 
40 Size mentioned
feature 32 Scottie _, 50 Dirty tendency to overindulge. Don't 00
in a fish story
12 Dreamy-eyed James Stewart's break promises that you made to AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): role in "Vertigo" 42 Ballet company 51 Shakespearean children, or difficulties will surely Don't make statements unless13 Omaha home V.I.P. suffix erupt.000 you have all the pertinent infor­33 Rightmost side CANCER (June 21-July 22): mation on hand. You may be You will be ready to argue with questioned and made to look 
21 Surface 34 Zingers Answers to any three Clues in this puzzle anyone and everyone. Someone foolish if you haven't done your are available by touch-tone phone: you care about may not be com­research. 000
35 The yoke's on 

1-900-420-5656 (95e per minute). pletely honest with you. Control PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
plum them 
your temper if you wish to avoid Don't let your temper get out of
Annual subscriptions are available for the 
separation. 00 hand. Someone may try to draw
36 Symbol of love 

best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50
people go to LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your you into an argument. Use your 
bed 37 Delivered by air years: 1-888-7-A.CROSS. reputation may be affected if you compassionate manner to ease get involved in secret love affairs. the tension and tum the situation There is a good chance that around.000 someone is just toying with your 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses~ Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name ______________________ Address ___________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
Irish go 0-1-1 

Notre Dame dropped the first game ofa weekend series with Ohio State, but skated to a 2-2 tie in the second game al the Joyce Center. 
page 12 
O
THE 

page 20 BSERVER 
Monday, January 22, 200 I 




By KERRY SMITH 
Sports Editor 
All it took was two foul shots. 
Struggling to recover from a 13-point deficit midway through the first half, the Irish needed only two calmly launched free throws from for­ward Troy Murphy to gain the lead, a lead they would hold the rest of the game, Sunday against the Mountaineers of West Virginia. 
But the 78-61 Big East win was anything but easy for the 11-5 lrish. 
In a heated and physical out­ing, tempers flared on both sides of the court as the two conference rivals butted heads at the Joyce Center. 
"We kept our cool in an unusual game," Irish head coach Mike Brey said. "But that's league basketball." 
\Vest Virginia took the crowd out of the game early, running up a 17-4 lead during the opening eight minutes before the Irish got on top of their game and their shots started falling. 
"I liked how we started the 

' t game," Mountaineer head coach Gale Catlett said. "Our playing was crisp and we were 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish overcome early deficit, cruise to win 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Haney leads Notre Dame to 72-4 7 victory 

By NOAH AMSTADTER Assistant Sports Editor 
Playing without injured for­ward Kelley Siemon -who was sitting out while her injured hand heals -forward Ericka Haney stepped up her play to lead the Irish past Seton Hall 72-47 on Sunday in South Orange, N.J. 
The junior forward led the Irish with 1 7 points and seven rebounds as the Irish (18-0, 7-0 

,, 
!, in the Big East) won their first contest since upsetting No. 1 Connecticut on Monday.
11 
With Siemon missing Sunday's game as well as Wednesday's game at West . J. Virginia, Haney absorbed some
)'/; of the offensive load normally
' 
I'•! 'f•/'! carried by her fellow forward. 
if/'/~ "Me and [Siemon] kind of have the same role as far as
I I 
going to the basket," Haney said. "I think I did a pretty good ' i' job today picking up some of 
It'. 
, 
. 
' 
, 
·,
l 
f 
SPORTS 

,!1 ATA 
;;1' ;: 
p·' ('"
".:f{ ~, 
GLANCE 

hitting the right people." 
Forward David Graves pro­vided a much needed spark off the bench with a top all­around effort, leading the Irish with 17 points and two offen­sive and seven defensive rebounds. 
"As long as I'm on the floor, I'm going to do what I have to," Graves said. "You just go out and try to wreak havoc on the defensive end." 
That team effort slowly let the Irish back into the game, matching the Mountaineers and then taking the lead at 24­23 on Murphy foul shots with less than eight minutes remaining in the first half. 
Murphy was right on Graves' heels, adding 16 points in 37 minutes of play. 
"They got out to a great start," Murphy said. "We showed a lot of poise dealing with all the distractions. And getting down 17-4 was one of those minor distractions. 
As the Irish found their foot­ing on the court and the Mountaineers slowly felt their grip on the game slipping away, frustrations turned into fouls. 
West Virginia racked up 13 
see MEN/page 15 


the moves she has when she's in the post." 
Haney started out early, scor­ing the team's first seven points as the Irish built an 11-0 lead to start the game. The Pirates did not score until Charlene Thomas hit two free throws 
11:15 remaining in the opening half. 
"The first 10 minutes weren't much fun," Seton Hall coach Phyllis Mangina said to the Associated Press following the game. "We felt like the Minnesota Vikings. We just didn't play very well offensive-
I ,.
y. 
Irish head coach Muffet McGraw credits her team's 2-3 zone defense with the early domination. 
"Our zone looked good early. It was pretty good the whole game," said McGraw. "I felt we did a nice job of containing the ball and keeping them off the perimeter." 
Notre Dame focused on mak­
iilg Seton Hall attempt three­. point shots, a strategy that 
proved successful. 
"We really wanted them to 
shoot more threes," said 
McGraw. "They ended up one 
for 13 so I thought that that was 
good." 
All-American center Ruth 
Riley added 13 points for Notre 
Dame, and contributed to 
Haney's successful night by 
drawing double-teams through­
out the game. 
"They were double-teaming 
me every time the ball came 
into the post, so I knew some­
one must be open so I just 
looked to kick the ball out to an 
open teammate," Riley told the 
Associated Press after the 
game. 
Alicia Ratay added 11 points, 
hitting three shots from behind 
the 3-point arc. Also contribut­
ing for the Irish was guard 
Monique Hernandez, who 
scored a season high 10 points 
while playing 25 minutes off the bench. 
"She played a great game. Just played with a lot of poise," McGraw said of her sophomore guard. "She didn't make a lot of mistakes and just really con­tributed offensively." 
The game was played in front of 1,273 fans in the Walsh Gymnasium at Seton Hall, which seats only 2,600 fans -a far cry from the packed Joyce Center the Irish played in front of against Connecticut. 
"You come out of the Connecticut game with the great crowd, the enthusiasm and the excitement," said McGraw. "Now you go to play a team that you know you're sup­posed to beat. It's a different mental approach to the game now." 
The Irish travel to take on the Mountaineers in Morgantown Wednesday night. The team then has a week ufT before host­ing Providence on Wed., Jan. 31. 
FOOTBALL 
Williams declares for draft 
By TIM CASEY Assistant Sports Editor 

Brock Williams confirmed on Sunday that he has declared for the National Football League draft. 
The senior cornerback, who could have applied for a l"ifth year of eligibility, would not elaborate on his decision. Although Williams declined to comment to The Observer, he said he might hold a press con­ference sometime this week to offer reasons for his departure. 
Williams remains in school and on track to graduate in May with a sociology degree. 
Williams apparently had thoughts of leaving Notre Dame before Notre Dame's 41-9 loss in the Fiesta Bowl. After the Jan. 1 game, Williams told The Observer he had talked to Notre Dame football administrator Nick Carparclli a few weeks ear­1ier about the possibility of declaring for the draft. 
Williams petitioned the NFL and was told he would likely be selected in the third or fourth round. When a player with eligi­bility remaining petitions the NFL, he is classified in four cate­gories (a probable 1st or 2nd round pick, 3rd or 4th round pick, 5th to 7th round pick, or a free agent), according to an NFL official. 
During the past season, it had been assumed Williams would return for a fifth year. On sever­al occasions, coach Bob Davie mentioned that \Villiams would be a key contributor to the 2001 squad. 
The speculation that \Villiams would declare for the NFL draft began after the Fiesta Bowl. Williams mentioned immediately after the game that he "went from decided to undecided" in his plan to return next season. He then said, "I want to come back next year and have a good, good season." 
Moments later, Williams spoke of his prior discussion with Carparelli. 
"The coaches will probably be shocked at what I'm saying but that's the way I am feeling," Williams said. "I'll let them know." 
According to Carparelli, Williams and Davie were con~ tacted by the NFL sometime between Jan. 6 and Jan. 12 
see WJLLIAMS/page 17 
Men's Tennis vs. Indiana Thursday, 4 p.m. 
Track and Field vs. Michigan State Friday, 6 p.m. 


vs. Syracuse 
at West Virginia Tuesday, 7:30 p.m. Wednesday, 7 p.m. 
at Michigan vs. Kalamazoo Tuesday, 7:05 p.m. Wednesday, 7:30 p.m. 


flt i; 
,,­
I·
! 
,' I 



