

We be clubbin' 
Good riddance to bad rubbish 
Scene lakes a look at some ofNotre Dame's 
Columnist Mike Marchand claims the Clinton 

Monday
lesser known sports clubs. 
Administration left the country -and a few 
White House offices -empty-handed.
Scene . page 10-11 
JANUARY 29,
Viewpoint . page 8 
2-000 >' 60 I 
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

VOL XXXIV NO. 75 




Leaders give first student report to Board of Trustees 
By LAURA ROMPF A.ssasrant News F.diror 

An hour an a half before most Notre Dame students walk lo their first Thursday morning class, John Osborn. Mike lleinz and Brian O'Donoghue will board the University's plane and head to Washington, D.C. They will be the 11rst students in Notre Dame history to all<'nd the winter Board of Trustees meeting and actually play active role in the discussions. 
"I think it is great we arc able lo attend the meet­ing," said Osborn, co-chair of the Board of Trustees reports committee. "I have been working on reports for three years ... and we are making great in-roads !'or student relations with the Board." 
Representing student opinion 

When the trustees agreed to hear student input at the wintnr meeting, they also suggested a specific topic for the students to speak on -"Students' ability to understand and articulate their Catholic faith." 
After receiving the topic, lleinz, Osborn and ()'Donoghue advertised and invited students to come to a focus group where they handed out surveys and had discussions with students to determine what role Catholicism plays at Notre Dame. Osborn said around 30 total students attended the focus group. 
"It is impossible to take 8,000 students and form one collective opinion," said Heinz, co-chair of the Board of Trustees reports committee. "We view ourselves as representatives and we've been put here on good faith ... We've tried to gather a spectrum of student opin­ion. 
Osborn shared the topic with the Senate Wednesday night, and in turn some senators told their dorms and 
see BOT/page 4 

Conference challenges SMC ca01pus 
By KATIE MILLER, 
News Writer 

Students. faculty and administrn­tors from colleg11s across the nation discussed the itHcllectual life, self­nsteem, diversity and ways to take action to improve college campuses at Saint Mary's 1Olh annual "Play of lhll Mind" conforcncc this weekend. 
Ten teams composed of two stu­dents, a faculty member and an administrator from women's col­leges across the country attended the conl'erence, where Saint Mary's provided host teams to lead discus­sions and interact with visiting t11ams. 
Under the umbrella of the theme "Women Driving Change," students, faculty and ndministrators planned to imµlement change un their cam­puses. 
"We worked not only on individ­ual understanding of our own pow11r. buL made detailed plans for change," said Patrick White, founder of the conference and diructor of the Center for Academic Innovation. 
Margaret Homan, an English pro­fessor from the College of Saint Elizabeth in Morristown, New Jersey, has attended the conference every year. Over the past 10 years. Boman feels that the students have 
become more action oriented at the confer­ence. 
"The students have become very specific [in how they want to implement positive change]. It is good to see 
them making a plan of action," said Homan. Homan also enjoyed interacting with another women's college. 
"It's wonderful to associate with other women leaders. Not all women's colleges are the same, it is a great opportunity to learn from each other," said Homan. 
Paula Fernandes. a student dcvel­opmcn t profes,sional from the College of Saint Elizabeth saw 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
HOOPIN' THE HOYAS 
"After the conference, I felt an increased need to take action on campus. " 
Bridget Howe junior 
an increased awareness of women 
in leadership roles. 
"After the conference, I felt an increased need to take action on campus," said junior Bridget Howe. "I specifically enjoyed talking to stu­den ts from other schools about leadership roles." 

"The conference made me realize the potential I have to make contri­butions here at Saint Mary's," said junior Vanessa I logan. 
women interacting as an important element of the conference. 
"Women from other women's col­leges seldom get together, especially in a college setting. This is a great opportunity," said Fernandes. 

"It's important to take advantage · 
to interact with women's colleges and liberal arts colleges," said Georgeanna Rosenbush. direc­tor of student activities. 
Saint Mary's students left the conference with 




Student attacks security officer 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
and JASON McFARLEY 
News Writer & Assistant News Editor 
A Notre Dame student was arrested for assault­ing a police officer. resisting arrest and pub­lic intoxication Sunday morning at 12:29 a.m. at . Freshman/Sophomore Dance held at the Alumni/Senior Club, midnight captain Dave Austin said. The student was taken to St. Joseph's County Jail, police said. 
All students at the dance were sent home at 1:30 a.m.. 90 minutes before the <lance's scheduled end. 
Freshman class secre­tary Tai Homero said several students arrived at the dance intoxicated. 
"There was not a problem with the dance but there were a lot of people coming in drunk f'rom previous events," Homero said. 
Romero said freshman class rnpresentativcs were screening students entering the dance and several people arrived unable to stand up and were tipsy. Homero said a Notre Dame security officer was also post<Jd at the door. Romero said it was clear that stu­dents were arriving at dance intoxicated and she assumes the security officer observed intoxi­
see ARREST/pag, 3 page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Monday, January 29, 2001 

INSIDE COLUMN 

This season w-as for I.any 
In a state currently enamored with the New York Football Giants, Long Island native Jim Baumbach pledged his allegiances this past season to the J-E-T­
S. And thanks to a gracious long-time Jets season ticket holder. Baumbach's memories may surpass those ofthe fans oflhe 2001 Super Bowl runner­ups. 
So who was this mystery man? 
For over t:wo months, Bawnbach knew him as "La.ny." It made no difference. As long as he attended New York's 10 home games (including t:wo preseason con­tests}. Baumbach was content with his row 28, end zone seats. But after a random Internet search, Baumbach's curiosity peaked. 
This story begins in July, when Baumbach, a 22-year­old assistant Internet nevvs manager for Newsday.com, placed a bid on Ebay for five Jets season tickets. He lost the first auction but quickly found another eager seUer-Larry. Baumbach, his brother and three friends won the tickets. July 29, the quintet drove to East Rutherford. New Jersey for the Jets-New Orleans pre-season tilt. 
"When we got to the game, we were psyched," Bawnbach said. "We were basically throwing out Larry's name left and right. We were like 'This sea­son's for Larry."' 
Around Sept. 11, when New York was 4-0, Kevin Baumbach (Jim's 19-year-old brother) searched the Internet and came across Notre Dame's 2000 foot­ball roster. He scrolled down and noticed a familiar name: LoVecchio. The Irish quarterback shared the same last name as Larry, of"This season's for Larry," fame. Baumbach clicked on a link and found that Matt was from Franklin Lakes, New Jersey, the same hometown as Larry. 
On Oct. 7. while watching the Notre Dame­Stanford game, Kevin figured out the connection: Larry, the Ebay seller, was also Larry, Matt's father. 
"All of a sudden La.ny LoVecchio shows up on the 1V (getting interviewed)," Jim Baumbach said. "That was the kicker right there. At the end ofthe game they were running the music and they showed Larry in slow-motion, chanting." The Baurnbachs, who prefer the NFL, suddenly became Irish fans. 
"It was neat, following the whole Notre Dame run and watching Matt on 1V," Jim said. "When he first started, we would hear his name on SportsCenter and we were like, 'Hey, Matt LoVecchio.' We knew nothing of him. We didn't know how long his run would last" 
As the winning streak continued, the Baumbachs' hopes soared. IfNotre Dame qualified for a Bowl Championship Series berth and the Jets hosted a Wild Card game, both contests would be on the same weekend. Larry could not pass up his son's game, the Baumbachs reasoned. Jim sent an e-mail to Larry in late November inquiring about the possi­ble playoff game and also to see ifhe could have the tickets again in 2001. He waited a few weeks with­out getting a reply, then wrote a column for the Dec. 27 edition ofNewsday (Long Island's newspaper of record), chronicling his unexpected Ebay encounter. 
The next day, having read Jim's piece, Larry replied. "He was like. 'Sorry I never got back to you about the playoffs,"' Jim recalled. "'But ifyou want the tickets for next year, that would be fine.' I called my friends up that day and was like 'One more year of Jets tickets."' 
And another round of''This season's for Larry" chants. 
The t1iews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene 
Laura Rompf Matt Nania Nicole Haddad Graphics Megan Deday Jose Cuellar Sports Production Noah Amstadter Noah Amstadter Viewpoint Lab Tech Kurt Boga:ard Ernesto Lacayo 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday excq,r during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All r.eproducrion rights arc reserved. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Monday  Tuesday  
. Lecture: "Health Care  . Lecture: "The Politics  
Technology and Venure  of Social Security  
Capital: Engineering to  Privatization in Latin  
Improve the Quality of  America," Sarah Brooks,  
Llfe," Kevin G. Connors,  Kellogg visiting fellow  
founder of Spray Venture  Duke University, C-103  
Partners, 101 DeBartolo  Hesburgh Center, 12:30  
Hall auditorium, 12:50 p.m.  p.m.  

Wednesday 

. 
Lecture: "Conscientious Objectors to Gulf War," Father Baxter, Center for Social Concerns, 7:30 p.m. 

. 
Lecture: "The Objectivity for Reasons of Action," Joseph Boyle, Courtroom of the Law School, 4 p.rn. 


Thursday 
. 
Lecture: "Transition and Human Rights in Chile," Juan Gabriel Valdes, C-103 Hesburgh Center, 4:15 p.m. 

. 
Election debate: "Meet the Candidates," Saint Mary's College, Haggar Parlor, 7 p.m. 


Compiled from U-Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Agents arrest Iowa State U. graduate student 
AIMES 

An Iowa State University graduate student and his brother await trial after being charged with attempting to export sophisticated military equipment to Pakistan, their home country. U.S. Customs Service agents, assisted by the Ames Police Department, arrested 36-year-old Tauquir Khan, graduate student in electrical and computer engineer­ing, early Wednesday and charged him with conspiracy to violate the Arms Export Control Act, said Customs spokesperson Dean Boyd. His brother, Tanzeem Khan, a natu­ralized U.S. citizen, also was arrest­ed Wednesday in Derby, Kan., on the same charge. Customs agents confiscated two pan-tilt-zoom cam­eras that are used to survey troop movement in battle, Boyd said. "Basically, these are very sophisti­cated cameras that are designed for drones, ... which are remote-con­trolled aircraft," he said. "You can fly it without a pilot, and you can imagine what that would do for sur­veillance." Drones, or unmanned aerial vehicles. are U.S. Munitions List items, Boyd said. The United States used drones in Desert Storm, he said, to take long-range pho­tographs or video surveillance. To export these items. one must be reg­istered with the State Department's Office of Defense Trade Controls and receive an export license, according to the Arms Control Export Act.Licensing the export of military equipment is rare, Boyd said, because of U.S. government sanc­tions against Pakistan. The sanc­tions were issued after the May 1998 nuclear testing in Pakistan, he said. Adding to the country's mili­tary instability was the 1999 mili­tary coup and ongoing tension with India. 

KENT STATE UNIVERSITY 
President revokes military rifles 
KENT, Ohio 
The M-16 military rifles purchased by the Kent State Police Department are being returned despite President Carol Cartwright's initial acceptance of the weapons. Cartwright asked the Kent State Police Department to return the weapons after hearing a wave of discontent in both the university and community. "I think it's a great decision made by President Carol Cartwright," said undergraduate student senator Ethan Picman. "It shows genuine concern and support for the students." Cartwright said she only had about five phone calls con­cerning the weapons, but both the petition from Undergraduate Student Senate to do away with the weapons and the large amount of media attention played a role in the request. "It shows what Senate can do when they rally around a cause," Senator Joe Dangelo said, "It shows we had our voices heard. Many students felt the way Latya Dent did." "They need to find a new type of gun which will be a little more suitable to students and the city of Kent," she said. 
LOCAL WEATHER 

5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather lu=fer daytim: conditions and hi le alllreS 
( 
..,, ... , 

4,~,Qq'@Q ~ ~ 6 
Showers T-:storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO 
Prof reinstated, charges dropped 
BOULDER, Colo. 

As of Thursday, Margaret Zamudio is no longer banned from the University of Colorado-Boulder cam­pus. The assistant sociology professor was banned without pay after officers from the Boulder County Drug Task Force and Boulder Police Dept arrested her on suspicion of selling cocaine in December. On Jan. 19 a Boulder District Court judge threw out the drug sales charges against Zamudio after she pied guilty to pos­session of drug paraphernalia, a petty offense. Zamudio said she was happy and grateful that the uni­versity finally did the right thing in returning her to the work she loves. "I worked so hard for my degree, to do what I do," said Zamudio. "To have it taken away... Now it's back, and I can continue to do what I want to do." Zamudio said the sociology department should be held accountable for putting her through the agony of being excluded without pay from the campus. "Someone has to look at the department and say, 'These guys really screwed up."' said Zamudio. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 


The AccuWeathe,.. forecast tor noon.Monday, Jan. 29. 
Cl 2001 AccuWeather, Inc_ CDW WARM STATIONARY PmS.st.lftJ: 
® © D CJ D D . CJ 
HIQh I-OW Shower a Rain T-atorma FIUl'flOI Snow ,,. Su11ny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via AssiUdalud Pre&;  
Atlanta Baltimore BoslOn Chicago Houston  63 43 33 39 69  49 34 30 34 45  Las Vegas Memphis Milwaukee New York Philadelphia  56 60 40 40 40  39 44 33 33 31  .  Portland Sacramento St. Louis Tampa Washington DC  44 53 52 77 45  33 35 39 64 36  

Monday, January 29, 2000 The Observer . NEWS page 3 
Arrest 
continued from page 1 
caled students as well. 
"If it was obvious to the freshmen standing al Lhe door, it was also obvious to !the security guard!." Homero said. 
Despite the observed iuto~i• cation, however, the secunty guard did not prevent students rrom entering the dance, Homcro said. 
Th1i security guard later 
called for two additional secu­rity officers, Romero said. 
When Notre Dame Security/Police reported to the Freshman/Sophomore Dance 
and they asked the student for his identification number, he gave a false number, police said. The police again asked !"or the student's identity, according to police. The stu­dent provided false information two more Limes, police said. 
l\fter the student submitted false information for the third time, the student began kicking and punching the officer, police said. 
Romero believes dances in the future will last only until 2 
a.m. and there will be a cut-off time for students to arrive. 
Notre Dame Security/Police director Rex Rakow was unavailable for comment late Sunday night. Bill Kirk, assis­tant vice president of Resident Life, was also unavailable for comment. Other freshman and sophomore class officers reached Sunday night declined to comment on the incident. 
Oklahoma State players die in crash 
Associated Pre•• 
BYERS, Colo. 

A twin-engine plane climbed and banked hard to the right before it crashed during a light snowstorm, killing 10 people, including two Oklahoma State basketball players, witnesses said Sunday. 
They told investigators the 
propeller plane's f.rngines 
ruvved and cased back several times before the fiery crash in a field Saturday night about 40 miles east of Denver. 
"It sounded like he was fly­ing full power. Then I heard a thump and saw a low glow," said Jon Carrick, who lives about two miles southwest of the crash site. 
Cesar Ronquillo, another area resident, said the plane's engines were whining when he heard a loud noise. "I saw the plane turning around, go 
Summer Positions Available: 
Notre Dame Athletic Department Sports Camp Office 40 Hours/Week Please Call: 631-8788 

I 

up again but all of a sudden go straight down," he said. 
As light snow fell, a team of National Trans portati on Safety Board investigators began looking for clues to the cause of the crash amid twist­ed wreckage scattered across a quarter mile. 
"We have some very detailed and painstaking work ahead of us in what are not the best weather conditions," said John Hammerschmidt. 
head of the NTSB crash investigation team. 
Police Sgt. Craig Coleman said the field was littered with body parts, seats, planning books, basketball shoes and playing cards, among other items. "It's a very gruesome and grotesque scene." 
The Beechcraft King Air 200 Catpass was one of three planes carrying the Oklahoma State men's basketball team and associates back to Stillwater. Okla., after they lost to the Colorado Buffaloes in a Big 12 Conference game at Boulder. 


College of Arts and Letters University of Notre Dame 
The College of Arts and Letters Invites Student Nominations for Kaneb Teaching Awards 
Each year Kaneb Teaching Aw-ards recognize approximately 25 Arts and Letters faculty for excellence in undergraduate teaching. 
Tenured faculty as well as professional specialist and adjunct faculty who have taught at least five years are eligible. 
Take advantage of this opportunity to have a voice in the selection of these recipients by nominating one of your outstanding teachers for this award. 
Send a brief letter indicating what is special or significant about this instructor to: 
Dian Murray, Associate Dean 101 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Deadline Monday, February 5, 2001 
Business contest gives cash, feedback 
The Gigot Center is expectingBy BIRGIT HEINlSCH approximately 100 teams and/or 
New~ Writer 

individuals to enter by the Feb. 16 deadline for registration. 
The Medoza College of The Gigot Center also expects
Business Gigot Center for 

approximately half of the partici­
Entrepreneurial Studies will 

pants to be alumni. 
award $20,000 to the winner of 
"Being an executive or an 
their innuagral Business Plan 

alumni might not be an advan­
competition -an entrepreneur­tage. Students have a different 
ial contest open to any Notre perspective, and [they have) an 
Dame students or alumni capa­on-campus network," said Davis. 
ble of creating an outline of a 
Theresa Sedlack, program
proposed business venture. 
manager of the Gigot Center. 
Adhering to the Center's mis­said, "[I noticed] a lot of buzz in 

sion of "creating a sense of the the business college [concerning] 
possible," the competition 
the competition." 
requires participants to describe Students, who need assistance 
prospective customers, market­with creating a b"usiness plan,
ing plans and even location for a can and will receive guidance

potential business. These docu­through numerous avenues. One 

ments, typically 10 to 40 pages tool for guidance is "Business 

long, will be evaluated by ven­Plan Pro," a software package
ture capita.I­

which partici­i s t s ' 
pants will 

bankers, "[The competition receive free of lawvers, 
charge. This

provides) a link between
soft.ware 
software,

engineers, entrepreneurs and the 
developed byand senior investment community. a Notre Dame executives ­
It's a forum to fund graduate, Tim 
all members 
Berry from 

of the Gigot prospective business." 
Palo Alto 
Center 
Software. gen­
Advisory 

James Davis erates a busi­Board and 
ness plan from 

director of the Gigot Center
Irish Angles. 
The busi­ness plans will be judged upon nine criteria. The evaluation from the judges will weigh more significantly upon the overall opportunity for the business to succeed and upon the team and entrepreneur managing the business. Other considerations will be made upon the business concept itself, competitive advantage, marketing, and financial return or expected suc­cess. 
"[The competition provides] a link between entrepreneurs and the investment community," said James Davis, Director of the Gigot Center. "It's a forum to fund prospective businesses." 
In addition to the prize money, the contest will provide a chance for students and alumni to net­work and gain feedback from successful business persons. Other prestigious colleges and universities have held similar competitions. 
MIT's Competition has had more than 400 companies launched in the past 10 years. 
information 

entered into the program. Another useful source is Tom Suddas, tho "entrepreneur in residence." Ile will be available to answer any questions and to offer assis­tance. 
Kevin Self, a venture capitalist, will hold a presentation dis­cussing business plans 1'rid~y from 1:00 p.m. to 2:15 p.m. m the Jordan Auditorium. Ile is currently a managing partner with NetFuel Ventures and will answer questions concerning business plans. 
Other important dates include March 19th when business plans are due by 5p.m. to the Gigot Center, and April 6th when the five finalists will be announced. On April 26th, the judging of the finalists will take place in which they must present their plans in a 10 minute presentation. 
The competition will come to a wonderful close on April 27th with the announcement of the finalist in addition to an awards ceremony with a key-note speaker. 

Attention First-Year MBA's Would you like to earn S.24,969 for your second-year tuition? 
The William G. McGowan Charitable Fund has just awarded the MBA program a grant that covers full tuition for the second year for two MBA students! Applicants must comply with the following criteria: 
-Must currently be enrolled full-time in the first year of the MBA program. -Must currently have a 3-0 GPA. -Must submit a 500-1000 word essay on the contributions of William G. McGowan, founder and Chairman ofMCI,to today's business world in general or to the telecommunications field in particular. -Must submit one letter of recommendation from a faculty member. -Must exibit attributes such as scholarship, talent, leadership qualities, character and community involvement. 
I 
All First-Year MBA's are eligible, excluding those that are already receiving full tuition fellowship. 
Deadline: Applications are due in the MBA Office by Friday, February 16, 2001 
Winners willbe announced in the spring. Contact: Julie.E.Rogers.2 r@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Monday, January 29, 2000 
information they're receiving will call for more interaction realize you can be a success At 4 p.m., the students will is right," Osborn said. "We between the Center for Social personally, but you can also board back on the University
BOT 

hope students can use the Concerns (CSC) and Campus make a difference." plane, and less than 12 hours 
continued from page 1 
O'Donoghue said this has gen­erated more feedback. 
"The survey questions were posted to some dorm list servs, and we have had sever­al email responses," student body president O'Donoghue said. 
The report will include an introduction, an overview of Catholicism and religion at Notre Dame and will then con­clude three recommendations. Heinz said. 
"We are explaining that 

there is a broad spec­trum of Catholics at N o t r e Dame," O'Donoghue said. "From the very conservative Catholic to the very lib­eral." 
"We are noting that there is not such a thing as a Notre 
Dame Catholic, and in fact there are a number of people on campus who are not Catholic," Heinz said. 
Osborn said the report also mentions that students do not always learn about Catholicism in the classroom, but often from dorm mass, Campus Ministry retreats, hall staff and fellow students. 
"We wonder whether the 


"I'm excited not only because it sets a precedent. but I think the trustees believe we're a credible source and they value student input in forming their own opinions. ,, 
Mike Heinz co-chair of the Board of T111stees report committee 
Catholic doctrine and social teachings not only in their lives on campus, but also when they graduate. When students leave Notre Dame, they should have intellectual preparation for life, but also have a moral and faith base foundation they can build on." 
The Recommendations 
After gathering student input, Osborn. Heinz and O'Donoghue decided upon three recommendations thev will present to the Board on 
Thursday. 
Catholic doctrine and apolo­getics. 
"Many students had already had a course on Biblical histo­ry or they were uninterested in the topic," Osborn said. 
Heinz said the course will also teach Catholic opinion on contemporary topics such as abortion, birth control and homosexuality. 
The second recommendation 
Osborn said many students were dis­satisfied with the required Theology 100 course on Biblical history, so they are recom­mending an alter­native course be offered on Ministry. Osborn said if the two interacted. it would com­bine the social and spiritual aspects of faith. 

''Students should take the practical aspect of faith they learn in the classroom and go out and use that faith for social justice and social out­reach," Heinz said. 
The third recommendation parallels the second by emphasizing practical faith. Osborn, Heinz. and O'Donoghue said they are rec­ommending more programs be offered with the Center for the Homeless, the Logan Center and the Community Learning Center. 
Heinz said in previous years, PLS students conducted litera­cy" programs, accounting stu­dents provided help with taxes and some engineering stu­dents went to Haiti to build water canals. 
"We want students to use these professional skills and 
It's hard to improve the WHOPPER~ but we did. 
The WHOPPER® Value Meal. 

Got the urge?~ The irresistible WHOPPER® Value Meal. 
A flame-broiled WHOPPER®, tries and an ice-cold drink. Who can say no to flame-broiled perfection? 
The Presentation 

Osborn. Heinz, and O'Donoghuc will leave South Bend on Thursday morning at 8 a.m. and arrive in D.C. around 10:30 a.m. From the airport. they will head to Willard Intercontinental Hotel where they will put final touches on their power point presentation and speeches before going before the Board at 1 p.m. 
Heinz said their presentation will follow the talk of John Cavidini, chair of the Theology department. The students will have the floor for 45 minutes, but they are leaving 20-25 of those minutes for questions from the Board. 
"This is the first time stu­dents will be able to sit in on the full discussion and presen­tation," O'Donoghue said. "This is a remarkable step for students." 
after they left, they will return to Notre Dame around 6:30 
p.m. Although the trip will be quick, Osborn. Heinz and O'Oonoghue are aware of the impact it could have. 
'Tm excited not only because it sets a precedent, but I think the trustees believe we 're a credible source and they value student input in forming their own opinions," s·aid Heinz. "I think this is a step to greater involvement with the administration." 



ATION 
Monday, January 29, 2001 
COMPILED FROM TnE OBSERVER \'\!IRE SERVICES 
page 5 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Plane crashes, killing seven: A 
small plane that authorities suspect was carrying illegal immigrants to the United Statns crashed Sunday in the Dominican Republic, killing al least seven people. While the flight plan said the plane was heading to tlrn resort town of Puerto Plata with a pilot and two passengers aboard, snvcn bodins Wflrc found. and the pilot named in the night plan was not on board, (;urcia Diaz said. 
Armed group kills 24: An armed group broke into two homes in an isolated village and killed two dozen people as they slept, 16 of them children, security sources said Sunday. It was the deadliest attack so far this year in an Islamic insurgency that has IPfl tens of thousands dead. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Driver death causes crash: The dri­ver or a bus carrying 33 high school ath­letes, cheerleaders and two coaches slumped over and died, sending the bus careening off the rnad and into several trt!l!S. Twelve students were treated and n•lcas1!cl from hospitals after the Saturday morning accident. 
Colorado bomblet detonated: 
Army workers detonated a Cold War-era bomblrt Sunday and began neutralizing the deadly sarin nerve gas it contained. In com­ing weeks, the Army will detonate five more grapefruit-sized sarin bomblets found dur­ing efforts to convert the former Hocky Mountain !\rsenal lo a wildlife refuge. "Everything went well. They're dousing it with neutralizer and that will take several hours, but once it is cracked open, the threat is basically over," project spokesman Omar Jabara said. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Man convicted of drowning wife files appeal: A Hammond man convict­ed in 1999 of drowning his wife in their backyard pool after learning or an affair betwePn her and his brother has accused his attorney of forcing him to confess. He now claims the woman's death was an acci­dent. Hoger Boesch, 55, was convicted of murdering his wife, Saundra Boesch, 34, who was found floating in the pool at their homo on July 15, 1998. Ile was sentenced in I <J99 to 52 years in prison. 
Market Watch 1/26 

Dow 
10,659.98 -69.54 
}ONES 
, ..., 

CompositeSarne, I.: 
Volume: 470 • 
NIA


• 
Nasdaq: 2781.30 +27.02 . ..' . -~ .... '• . . . .• . ,. . . . ,. ... 
. ,.-. •>':7•~'~•\t:•k::•:{*..,« " ,._ . ~ ;.-,,< :r,: ,: ::.: ._/ ,•,, :: •,-.,;.: ::,' \; 
S&P 500: 1354.95 -2.56 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE FRICSSON LM-ADR (£RICV) t-10.()4 + 1.25 13 00 CISCll SV',HiMS (CSCO) -7.b4 •.l.lS 3'1.31 OHACI f CORI' (ORC!.) -0.41 -0.12 29 ')4 NASDAI~ WO SHAR (QQQ) .J.91 -2.62 M.50 JD~ L'Nll'I !ASE (JDSU) -IViH . 7.87 ;s.19 
INDIA 


Associated Press 

AHMEDABAD 
Angry survivors of India's earthquake are accusing authorities of conducting a sluggish rescue effort that has left thousands trapped under rubble with fading hopes of survival. 
The magnitude 7.9 quake struck western India on Friday, and by Sunday more than 6,000 people were confirmed dead. The death toll was expected to rise by thousands more. 
At first, survivors said, help from the government was too slow in coming. When the quake hit, state officials were attending a military parade for Republic Day, a commemo­ration of the adoption of India's constitution in 1950. 
"We lost precious hours soon after the earthquake. Every state government officer we called was away at a parade. Even police came six hours after the quake," Dhrumal Vaidya, a movie cameraman, said Saturday. 
Chief Minister Keshubahi Patel. the top elected offi­cial of Gujarat state, where the quake hit, denied charges of a slow response. 
"I organized the officials at the parade itself and we got down to work. But an earthquake is not a cyclone," he said. "We were not forewarned." 
It took time to gather earth movers and cranes, and the larger ones could not reach many of the apartment buildings because of the region's narrow roads, Patel said. 
Vaidya lives in Ahmedabad, a city of 4.5 mi1lion people and the com­mercial capital of Gujarat state. At almost all the 42 collapsed buildings in the city. local residents com­plained they had to orga­nize rescues themselves. 
"The municipal corpora­tion has not helped at all," said Ashok Patel, a bank manager in a neighborhood where residents struggled to lift debris with a crane. 

"We private citizens have arranged for this single crane," he said. "We need at least another two cranes, but who will listen to us?" 
Vaidya blamed poor enforcement of construc­tion standards for many deaths. 
"So many buildings have come up in recent years which clearly wouldn't meet any of the building standards," he said. "Unscrupulous builders get away with it, and it takes a tragedy like this for people to realize they've been cheated." 
Heavy gunfire continues in Tanzania 
people were kHled. the Associated Press by telephone.
Associated Press 

It was not immediately known if Police have not confirmed the 
ZANZIBAR there were any casualties from killings and canceled planned news 
A second day of heavy gunfire Sunday's fighting. In Wete on the conferences Saturday and Sunday. broke out on the archipelago of northern island of Pemba, where Zanzibar President Amani Zanzibar on Sunday in what opposi­gunfire broke out at 6:30 a.m. Karume of the ruling Chama Cha tion leaders said were clashes Sunday, witnesses claimed police Mapinduzi party accused opposition between police and protesters call­went house-to-house beating resi­leaders of inciting violence. ing for new elections. dents and looting their valuables. "Our country was thrown into 
As many as 24 people, including a They did not want their names chaos and unnecessary grief' by sup­police officer, were killed in running used. porters of the opposition party. The battles Friday and Saturday "The sound of gunfire can still be tragedy was extraordinary in the between police and protesters, said heard around town and people are history of our nation because some 
Nassor Seis, a senior official with locked up indoors for fear of their people have lost their lives, includ­the opposition Civic United Front. security. Others have run into the ing a police officer," Karume said in Local news reports said 11 and 16 forest to escape," one resident told a TV broadcast Sunday. 
--·---------------------­
page 6 The Observer . NEWS Monday, January 29, 2000 
ITALY 

Pope names 5 more Cardinals 
Associated P rc:ss 
VATICAN CITY 
Taking many by surprise, Pope John Paul II on Sunday named seven cardinals ­including a liberal -only a week after he set a record by announc­ing 37 new "princes" of the church. expanding the ranks 

John Paul II
of those who will some day elect his successor. 
Smiling broadly as he appeared at the window of his studio overlooking St. Peter's Square for his weekly appoint­ment with the faithful. John Paul gave no explanation for his unprecedented back-to­back announcements of new cardinals, who included a U.S. citizen born in the Ukraine and South Africa's first black cardinal. 
All together, 44 new mem­bers are being added to the College of Cardinals, bringing to 13 5 the number of those under 80 and thus eligible to vote for the next pontiff. Of these electors, John Paul has now named all but 10, nearly all doctrinal conservatives like himself. 
One new cardinal, 
Monsignor Lubomyr Husar, 
was only appointed three days 
earlier to lead Greek Catholics 
in Ukraine as archbishop in 
Lviv. An American. he left his 
native Ukraine in 1944 and 
studied and entered the priest­
hood in the United States. 
Then there are two 
Germans. One is liberal Mainz 
Archbishop Karl Lehmann, 
who only a year ago stunned 
the Vatican by saying the pope 
should step down if no longer 
able to lead the church. 
Lehmann immediately 
claimed that the interview was 
misinterpreted. But the inci­
dent, combined with his sug­
gestion that the Vatican should 
rethink its ban on Communion 
for divorced Catholics, made 
many observers say he never stood a chance of becoming a cardinal. 

'Tm pleased with the recog­nition of my work as a bishop and also as head of the German bishop's conference," Lehmann said. 
Also named from Germany is a staunch conservative, Johannes Deganhardt, arch­bishop of Paderborn. He was one of the first German bish­ops to pull out of a program that certified pregnant women who have had counseling, paving the way for legal abor­tions. The Vatican opposes the counseling system. 
Others to be made cardinals in a Feb. 21 ceremonv at the Vatican include Julio Terrazas Sandoval, archbishop of Santa Cruz de la Sierra, Bolivia; and Wilfrid Fox Napier, archbishop of Durban, South Africa, who for years has fought for social justice. 
John Paul also revealed the names of two men made cardi­nals in 1998 but have persuaded the pope to put off the announcement to avoid aggravating tensions. 
And Jaworski's appointment might have been kept quiet to avoid sparking tension between Catholics and Orthodox in Ukraine. 
Husar's appointment to car­dinal rank was made possible by the death last month of the man he assisted for several years. Cardinal Myroslav Lubachivsky, and comes five months before the pope is to journey to Ukr.aine, part of the pontiff's efforts to improve relations in places with large Orthodox populations. 
Vatican spokesman Joaquin Navarro-Valls, noting that Husar's appointment to the archbishop's post was only made Thursday, said the pope didn't want the Ukrainian to be the only cardinal named on the second announcement. Thus. said Navarro-Valls, the pope held off on some of the 
names in the 
first round. 

w  h  o s  e  "All these names were  "All  these  
identity he had kept  in his mind when he  names in his  were mind  
secret  "in  made his announcement  when  he  
the heart," as he put it.  last week. "  made his announce- 
One  is  ment  last  
Marian  Joaquin Navarro-Valls  week,"  he  
Jaworski,  Vatican spokesman  said.  
archbishop  Referring to  
in  Lviv  of  Husar,  

Catholics, many of them of Jaworski and Pujats, John Polish origin, who follow the Paul said he was paying trib­Latin rite. The other is Janis ute to their churches, which in Pujats. archbishop of Riga, the last century provided "the Latvia. example of so many Christian 
Italian news reports said men and women who knew Jaworski lost a hand decades how to pay witness to their ago in a train accident that faith amid suffering of every occurred when he was travel­kind," sometimes at cost of ing to do a favor for the young their lives. future John Paul, then a Polish cleric. 
In the past, the secret nam­ing of cardinals was reserved for churchmen living in areas 
Washington sending $5 million in quake aid 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
The United States will send $5 million in emergency sup­plies to earthquake-stricken lndia, officials said Sunday, and could send more as the situation worsens. 
More than 6,000 bodies have been recovered in the quake, and the death toll was expected to climb by several thousand more. Tens of thou­sands of Indians are home­less. 
"This is clearly a terrible earthquake,"said Len Rogers, acting assistant administra­tor in the bureau for humani­tarian response at the U.S. Agency for International Development. Rogers said the United States will monitor the relief effort and send more aid if it becomes neces­sary_ 
"This is a major disaster, and we will respond accord-ingly,"he said. 
A seven-person disaster response team will be in India on Monday. USAID said the United States would send supplies that include plastic sheeting, blankets, water containers, purification and distribution kits and genera­tors. 
The agency, through the organization CARE, also began distributing 100 met­ric tons of' food on Saturday. The emergency food will meet half the daily require­ments for 4,000 families for 15-20 days, USAID said. 
USAID also will provide financial assistance to sup­port the work of relief groups already on the ground in Gujarat, the In di an state hardest hit. 
Bhuj. a town in Gujarat, was near the epicenter of Friday's 7 .9-magnitude quake and suffered the most casualties and damage. 

Looking for a Lrealive _A,.ti1l to 
work Thursday Nights for the Viewpoin+ Sec+ion of 
The Observer 
Call Chad Maestas @ 243-1542 for more info. 
where they could be persecut­
@[p)~@r?l!M[ru .{fy/ ~@ ~uM@lW [L@[fil(g)M@®@
ed, such as the Chinese bishop who learned a dozen years later that he had been named a cardinal by the pope. 
1r[ru. ®~(!1][Ml[jlfi)@[r9 g
A Vatican source, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Pujats several years ago 
In order to en~ourage Notre Dame students who
had made some comments critical of Russia. That might 
are studying languages for which the University 
LECTURE 
Monday, January 29, 2001 6 p.m. Notre Dame Room LaFortune Student Center 
Dr. Peter Mea:de-, ND '74 
member of DOCTORS WITHOUT BORDERS 
Dr: Meade will speak on his medical work in Sri Lanka treating victims ofland mines and his medical work in inner city Los Angeles treating victims of drug and gang wars. Dr. Meade will also give hints on getting into medical school. 
Sponsored by the 
Minority Premed Club 
doesn't have large overseas study programs, there is a competition for summer grants that will allow you to study "your" language abroad or in the U.S. this summer. (In other words, this competition is open to all languages except French, Spanish, Italian, and German.) Last summer 10 students were funded to study Chinese, Japanese, Russian, Arabic, Polish, and Irish. 
For details and application forms go to http://www.nd.edu/-sumlang/ 
Or get applications from the Office of International Studies (200 Security Building) 1-5203 
This program is sponsored by the Office of the Assistant Provost for International Studies and the College of Arts and Letters 
Monday, January 29, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Dartmouth professors found dead, police search for clues 
. Students, friends shocked by death of beloved couple 
Associated Pttss 
IIANOVEH, N.H. 

Tho safe. close-knit feel of Dartmouth College was shat­tered Sunday by the apparent murders of two. popular, long­li me professors. a couple known for opening their home and hearts to others. 
Susanne and Half Zantop had welcomed so many guests into their home "they practi­cally seemed to run a hotel," said colleague Bruce Duncan. 
Police initially were close­mouthed and didn't say until a late afternoon news confer­ence. nearly a day after the bodies wore found, that the deaths were considered a dou-
Cab to Bar:$ Long Island I Picture in gir leather pant 
From, Your Boys 
ble homicide. 
At the news conference, Attorney General Philip McLaughlin said he didn't know if anyone else was in danger. 
"If we have a specific, reli­able reason to believe the community is at risk, we would express that because that would be our duty," McLaughlin said. 
The couple's latest guest had arrived at their home Saturday evening and found the door unlocked, said neighbor and friend Audrey McCollum. 
"She went in and called out; there was no answer," McCollum said in an interview Sunday. "She turned and saw Susanne on the floor with blood around her." 
The guest, identified by oth­ers as Oartmouth languages instructor Roxanne Verona, 
rushed to the McCollum home Heschel said that when she ater. to call police. McCollum said and her husband first came to "She was so nice," he said. her husband, Robert, a doctor. Dartmouth three years ago, "She welcomed us to Berlin." then went to the Zantop home. the Zantops were among the Duncan said Susanne Zantop 
"He saw enough to know for first to welcome them. was best known for her certain they were both dead "As soon as we arrived here, research in German colonial-and had been dead for a num­they invit-ism, and was ber of hours," Audrey ed us over considered
"Everybody feel they
McCollum said. constantly, among the top Verona said police told her t h e y were their best friends, in her field. not to talk to reporters about included Half Zantop
because they were 
the discovery, but she was us in specialized in
friends to everyone."
willing to talk brielly about her every­economic friends. thing," she geology, the "They are wonderful peo­said, her study of valu­
Susannah Heschel 
ple," the instructor of French V O i C e able om
chairwoman of the Jewish Studies
and Italian said of the cracking. deposits.
Department
Zantops, then corrected her­"Everyone He probably self: "They were wondoW'ul is so was the most people. They were special -~shocked popular pro­intellcctual'ly, humanly, every­because their home was so fessor in his department, said thing." open to all of us. It just radiat­fellow faculty member James 
Susanne Zantop, 55, was a ed their warmth and for this to Aronson. professor of German and happen in their home ... " "lie was the one person in chairman of Oartmouth's Many of the college's nearly the department who would German Studies Department. 5,600 students learned of the always come up with a solu­Her 62-year-old husband deaths in a campus-wide e­tion that was oriented toward taught earth sciences. They mail from the staff of the stu-fairness," Aronson said. had been dent newspa­The couple had two ad ult instructors at per, The daughters: Veronika, 29, who Dartmouth ''They were wonderful Dartmouth. lives in San Francisco, and for at least "I couldn't Mariana, 27, of' New York
people. They were
25 years, breathe," City. said Edward special -intellectually, Kinohi Jlanover, a picturesque town Berger, dean humanly, everything." Nishikawa, a of just under 10,000, is lively of faculty for senior at the but generally safe. arts and sci­college and a When two female students
Roxanne Verona
ences. research from Ethiopia were murdered 
"Everybody French and Italian instructor assistant in with an ax in 1991, police said feels they the German they were the first murders in were their Studies town in more than 40 years best friends, because they Department, said of his reac­and the first of' Dartmouth stu­were l'riends to everyone," tion to the e-mail. dents that anyone could said Susannah Heschel, chair­During the holidays, remember. An Ethiopian man woman of the school's Jewish Nishikawa had visited a friend allegedly spurned by one of' Studies Department. "Their in Germany and bumped into the victims was convicted and home was the center for so the Zantops, both born in sentenced to lif'e in prison many of us." Germany. coming out of a the-without parole. 
t~I (-3"3iq tafC. ~ttc..i~o~ 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 8 BSERVER Monday, January 29, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. !lox Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Soui:h Dining Holl. Notre O:,me. TN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Tim Lane 
NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Mattingly V11,wP01NT EDITOR: Lila Haughey SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smith SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARv'S EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: Elizabeth Lang 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunvil!e WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CoNTROU.ER, Bob Woods GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGE.RfGENERAL lNF0..............631-7471 FAX................. . .................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................ 631-4542 MANAGING EmmRIAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWs.......................................................... 631-5323 
observer .obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPO!NT.................... ,., ..........................631-5303 observer. viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SroRTS........................................................63I-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MA!tv's.............................................631-4324 
observer .smc. l@nd.edu l'HOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://obsnver.nd.edu for daily updates of campus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-che 
movies/ music for 
minute forecasts 

weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 

online feanu-es for spe­
and rates of print ads 

cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 

abour The Observer 
articles published after 

to meet 1he editors and 
staff
August 1999 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe Universiry ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's ·college. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeicher institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectivdy as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners to the Editor must be signed and musr include contact informauon. 
Questions r,garding Observer po/ides should b, direct­«/to F.ditor in Chief Mike Connolly. 

To those or you who constantly felt that William Jefferson Ointon was the dogged victim of a "vast right-wing conspiracy," the events of Slick Willy's final days in oflice should serve as a wake-up call. They come as no surprise to those of us who already knew he was a moral bot­Mike Marchand tom-feeder. 
Outgoing presi­dential staffs often Questionable play practical jokes Freedoms on the new West 
2000 

Wing residents, but Clinton's crew took the next step. In addition to defacing the · W keys on 40 White House keyboards, phone lines were cut or misdirected to other government offices, pornographic images were inserted randomly into copy machines, desks were overturned and fil­ing cabinets were glued shut. 
Even though it was no longer his air­craft, Clinton borrowed Air Force One to take him "home" to New York in style. It returned to Andrews Air Force Base nearly picked clean. with presidential seal-marked porcelain dishes, silver­ware, salt and pepper shakers, pillows, blankets, candies -even toothpaste ­pilfered from the plane. The seats might have been taken if they weren't bolted to the floor. 
They also shook down Democratic fat­cat donors for more than $200,000 in housewarming gifts cleverly timed before Hillary took her Senatorial oath of office and therefore came under more restric­tions for donations. One of the most gen­erous suppliers of the Clinton's gift reg­istry was Denise Rich, whose ex-hus­band, Marc Rich, skipped the country in 1983 after being indicted for tax evasion and making an illegal oil deal with Iran. He, somehow not surprisingly, received one of Clinton's 176 last-second presi­dential pardons. (Can we say "quid pro quo"?) 
Ointon also sealed outstanding legal cases shut, most notably by cutting a sweetheart deal with Independent CounsPI Robert Ray that would be called "a slap on the wrist" except slaps on the wrist are at least temporarily painful. 
The Janet Heno Justice Department brokered a similarly favorable arrange­ment for Indonesian billionaire James Riady, the foreign national who orches­trated the millions of dollars of illegal campaign contributions with which Clinton used to help him win reelection in 1996. 
He was a busy man, but he found time along the way to criticize the election process that put the son of the man Clinton vanquished in 1992 into the White House and sent his vice president to Columbia University. 
According to Clinton, George W. Bush won Florida because Republicans "stopped the voting." Not the counting, the voting. 
His final self-reflection on his adminis­tration: He had fun. And he wishes that the 22nd Amendment was altered so he could have another go-round. 
God help us all. 
Clinton's actions on the way. out only reinforce the truism that he was in office to serve not the American people, but Bill Clinton. Originally, Clinton performed all of his actions to get reelected. Then it was to stay in office. Then it was to build a legacy:Under the Clinton regime. rules of decorum and campaigning-even the Constitution -were bent to his will. A president didn't leave office, a king abdi­cated his throne. 
Let us examine the havoc King Clinton and his cronies have wrought, in semi­chronological order: A huge tax increase in 1993. The attempt to nationalize one­seventh of the U.S. economy; a gutted military which is spread all over the world in areas where they don't belong; the "war room," normally only used dur­ing campaigns, as a day-to-day opera­tion; smear campaigns which helped destroy the careers of Billy Dale, Newt Gingrich, Ken Starr, Llnda Tripp and many others; the use of the Internal Revenue Service to harass political ene­mies; 900 FBI files which weren't an enemies' list, but a "bureaucratic snafu;" the acceptance of stonewalling, perjury and "the politics of personal destruc­tion;" nuclear secrets traded to and/or stolen by China: "putting the Lincoln Bedroom up to the highest bidder; com­mencing bombing missions against Iraq and Serbia in an attempt. to push person­al indiscretions off the front page; issuing executive orders and presidential pre­rogative to avoid testifying before a grand jury; ABC News putting a warning of sexual content on the screen when he finally did testify. Add to it the outright theft of items from Air Force One and the White House and the destruction of oth­ers. 
Bill Clinton left office without enacting one piece of meaningful legislation by himself. He was bullied into signing wel­fare reform (after vetoing it twice) and six other maxims in the Contract With America. Most of his pct projects, like "100,000 new cops on the streets," have either not panned out or have been inef­fective. And all of the things on which Al Gore based his campaign -Social Security reform, education reform, Medicare reform -could and should have been completed in eight golden years of prosperity. 
Speaking of that prosperity, Clinton had as much to do with it as he does for the weather in South Bend. He was just lucky enough to be in charge when the e­conomy/dot.conomy boomed. Ile did . nothing except enjoy the ride. I le didn't cut taxes to fuel the economy or to give the surplus back to the American people. 
And now that apparently the ride has ended, he has no choice but hope that everyone believes that the slowdown/recession is the fault of the new administration. As George W. Bush himself said, "The path of least resis­tance is always downhill." 
Bill Clinton's legacy will be a slowing economy, the most unethical administra­tion in history and a blue dress with a stain on it (kind of metaphoric, ain't it?). So, goodbye, Mr. Clinton, good riddance, and thanks for nothing. Glad you had fun. 
Mike Marchand is a senior Hnglish major who feels he has just wasted a col­umn on the most irrelevant president since Grover Cleveland. llis column appears every other Monday and his e­mail address is Marchand.3@nd.edu. Have at him. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
DILBERT 
e
YOUR STOCK WILL ~ 
HOW 15 .I JUST FOUND 
RISE IF A STOCK t 
THAT MY NEW PICl<'­
ANALYST SAYS ,,~ 
EVEN 1\ND-SHOVEL
ONE

GOOD THINGS ABOUT i 
POSSIBLE? CORE HOLDING.
WORD:

YOUR COMPAN,'. ~ 
WEASELS. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Technological progress is like an axe in the hands ofa pathological criminal." 
Albert Einstein scientist 
---------------------------~-----. 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE Monday, January 29, 200 I BSERVER page 9 
Well. two Y2Ks are over and done without apocalyptic mayhem. Hut is the entire new millennium destined to pass by as smoothly? I was really expecting a change of' Lhe social order a couple weeks ago. you know'? I was ready. I wanted to find some ranch land. bring tu it some horses and Anna Barbour catllc, be a rancher; no big thing, just start livin' an American Get a life dniam. An impossible drc1Lm, I know. Now. 
I don't know if you remember, but every­thing was supposed to shut down because the computers would all malfunction. First. the trucking industry and the power plants would be hit. Gas would not be delivered. lilectricity and telephone services would be shut down. The ramifications were huge. No more fresh produce from Florida or California in my grocery store. No more gro­cmy store. either, really. 
We were all supposed to go back to living straight oIT the land like our forefathers or our forefather's fathers. It would have been 
neat. I guess you'd have to like horses and fireplaces and homemade things though. 
A marine once said. way back in 1999, that there would be rioting in the strnels what with no more organized law enforcement. Chaos. if you will. Ile was somewhat excited since he, of course, would be in power, for as he said. martial law must go into effect, executed with help from him and the other marines. 
I'd like to ponder martial law. That would be interesting. Martial law. In 1999, 1 was thinking such law wasn't very democrat­ic, but heck, I had some connections so I wasn't too worried. I was hop­ing that there would be a short time of martial law. and then we could all go about our business: gathering crops, tending the Hocks, herding the herds. Hight. Well. I never said I was the smartest underclassman. 
I suppose my theories had some !laws. Like, for instance, some scientist,; and technologists could 
Overwhelmed by technology trends 
weeds and other monstrous pests. Perhaps it's only the radical environmental loonies blowing things out of proportion again, wor­rying like they do about their favorite plan­et. 
And what about the rapid growth of tech­nology and a growing insatiable need for a faster everything? Perhaps the real Y2K problem is bigger than a mere second, a mere eye blink. Perhaps the Y2K disaster is computers eventually running amuck. Or people turning -into computers who eventu­ally run amuck. Crazy, you say? 
Well, now, stop a moment. Who has not seen people with cell phones plastered to their heads while driving cars, watching movies, eating in restaurants, walking to class, even getting groceries? My God, who do you need to talk to when you are getting groceries? Make a list. 
First, you get a phone plastered to your head. Then, you start becoming more and more "connected." You begin working with computers at home. Finally you never leave home. 
And we all know the dangers of a comput­
er-dominated community from watching "The Net" with Sandra Bullock. They will -----say, "Give us the disk and we'll give 
have actually fixed the computer problems before a whole breakdown of modern living would develop. And who even wants to live in a time before cellular phones existed, never mind a time before air-conditioning or flushing toilets? Maybe only Shawn Colvin who wants to know whern all the cowboys have gone, over and over again on the radio. 
Let's slop a minute. though. and ponder the modern era. Did Y2K problems really pass by, leaving only a fow stones touched? I wonder. One may never know. 
It is important to note, however. that that illustrious visionary from Lhc 16th century, Nostradamus, predicted a Y2K catastrophe in the form of global warming for this new millennium. Well. okay, he may have actual­ly said that a "great king of terror" would come from the sky in 1999. But many have interpreted this to be a long-term sky-king of terror, i.e. global warming. And we all know that the Earth's temperature is gradu­ally increasing; glaciers are gradually melt­ing: patches of permafrost arc melting in Alaska that have never melted before. Is this something of a post-modern pre-apocalypse. if you will? One can't be certain. Some plants like carbon dioxide, but then, so do 
you your life back," but they don't really mean it and you don't really have a life anymore any­way. Maybe I'm not sounding so crazy after all, huh? And who owns a beeper or wanted to during the 
beeper-fad a few years ago? Who secretly desires to be beeped? 
That's another question: How many people want to be beeped? Because 
it's important, right, to always he in conversa­tion with other people? But in Finland people talk more over phone lines than over coffee, 
and the same is true in Tokyo where they have DoCoMo, a thumb pow­
ered online cell phone 
that makes offiine, or what is more commonly known as the eyeball-to­
eyeball conversation, seem rather out-dated. There's also St. Malachy, 
another visionary from all the way back in the 12th century who 
predicted some sort of apocalypse in 2020. You see, he already predicted Pope John Paul II, naming him, "from the sun's labor," and guess who was born on a total eclipse? I don't know about you, but that was enough for me. 
I was pondering what might happen in 2020 and 2020 looks an awful lot like 20/20 as in vision so maybe that's the date when many will lose their vision, having stared one too many times into a palm-pilot. Certainly, it's a shot in the dark, but one simply cannot dismiss the quiet and strange problems of a new millennium. Maybe going back to a time before industry, to a time when land was the key to power, is not the answer to modern problems (although hav­ing a horse as a personal transportation vehicle would still be neat), but using every­thing that is new just because it is new. is not the way to avoid technological problems either. 
Anna Barbour is a junior theology and pre-med major. Her column runs every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Answering charge of 
'Deceptive diversity' 
This letter is in response to Friday's front page article entitled "Deceptive 
Diversity." 
In a time when we are looking for unity on the campus of Notre Dame, it is unfortunate that an article be printed that portrays the Admissions Oflice as deceiving diversity students. As a minority person who has been part of the Notre Dame community for 7 years, it disheartens me that such negativity is highlighted for such a successful program. 
Th~ ~ulticultural Recruitment Committee of the Otnce of Undergraduate Adm1ss10ns feels as though we were the ones deceived when we were inter­viewed for this Sp~ing Visitation article. We incorrectly assumed it was going to be :in opportunity for us to get more people involved in the minority recrmtment process. Instead of highlighting all of the positive aspecL'i or the Spring Visitation program, The Observer decided to highlight a negative 
aspect. 

The main purpose of Spring Visitation is to bring students here who may not be fortunate enough to visit the campus on their own as well as high tal­ent diversity students that may not. be considering Notre Dame as their first choice. This is an opportunity for students to decide, for themselves, whether 
or not Notre Dame is their match. In no way are we trying to sell Notre Dame. Spring Visitation is not a show. We hope that students leave Notre Dame knowing that we have answered all of their unanswered questions. We also hope to clarify all of the misconceptions of this place by exposing them to a taste of the different cultural events that take place throughout the year. This is the main reason why the organizations that put on the shows, choose this particular weekend. 
Many of the prospective students feel fortunate in August because they 
have made friends before arrival to campus. Most will stay in contact 
throughout the summer and those that are from the same area will also get 
together and plan their first trip to Notre Dame as freshmen. 
Recruiting minorities is a diflicultjob, but it is not impossible. The most 
important thing, though. is that we be supported by the Notre Dame commu­
nity, as an office that is here to help the University as a whole. There is so 
much effort that is put into this weekend, and we work extremely hard to 
improve it every year. The only way to increase. diversity on this campus is to 
have as many people as possible involved in the recruitment process. Every 
student on this campus is a recruiter for Notre Dame. We appreciate all of 
the students and alumni that return to their high schools and hometowns to 
spread the word of Notre Dame and identify those prospectives that will reap 
the benefits of this fine institution. 
Negative focus hurts more than helps and if you choose to magnify it, then 
it will only make our job that more diflicult. It is important to know that 
Spring Visitation does not hurt us in any way. 
It is also important to know that without the support of the community, we 
are never going to improve the diversity of this campus. We challenge this 
campus to come together and unite and help N.D. become a better place. 
Cynthia Santana 
Mul1icultural Rccruitm~nt Coordinator 
Belinda Bryant, Jesse Dang, Santiago Gurule Arienne Thompson and Richie Dang 
MulricuhurJI Swdenr Rrcruit<rs OtTtcc of Undergraduate Admissions January 26, 200 I 
/ntereftetJ in writing 
for Viewpoint? 
Ca(( Li(a at 1·5303 or e•Mai( her at of> server.view,,oin+.1 enrJ.erJ u 


Clubs that 
Scene writer Scott Little takes a look at Notre Da 
By SCOTT LITTLE 
s~ene Writer 

Here you are at school. It is a lot like a play-dough facto­ry. In you go, a brightly col­ored blob, and then out you come in a fun shape like stars or spaghetti. The athletic clubs of Notre Dame allow students and professors to reach that next level in their livelihoods by rounding their buttockses and molding their attitudes with the hopes of squeezing out a better­formed person. Here are just a few of the options that you may have overlooked at activ­ities night, but could add the extra dimension to your life that you have been looking for: 
Ballroom Dancing 
The Notre Dame Ballroom Club may come in handy for anyone who likes to impress the ladies (or gentlemen) with smooth moves and grace. And ladies. you can be as ugly as a worm and still get the guys if you know where to throw your weight around on the dance floor. The group meets two times a week, on Tues·days (8:30 to 10:00p.m.) and Thursdays (8:00 to 9:30p.m.). The cost is $4 per session or you can pay $30 for the whole semester. It is a great place to get the individ­ual attention that we all crave. A competition is com­ing to Notre Dame March 31. There will undoubtedlv be all your favorite dancing styles including the cha-cha, tango and Latin. 

Women's Boxing 

When you think about box­ing, you probably think about men. Well, not at Notre Dame. The Women's Boxing Team is probably the only women's boxing program in the country. Despite popular belief. the average woman boxer is not a toothless, 

The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Equestrian Club is one of the many University sponsored organi­zations offering students a chance to try something new. 
rough-n-tough, knockabout kind of a girl. They arc well­mannered, sleek, cute faced delights. If you are a guy, it is possible to help out, but you have to be good at boxing. So if you are a guy that likes to get beat up by girls, you'll have to dress up like one to get hit by one. They train for four weeks. and instructional­ly spar for two. They aren't allowed to box in public. like the men's Bengal Bouts. but we all hope they will be able to in the coming years. In order for this to happen the University has to start think­ing of the sport like it's Tae­130 and not mud wrestling. 
Triathlons 

The Triathlon Club is anoth­er gem of' the ND/Saint Mary's athletic club tradition. It is currently in its second year. Last semester St. Mary's host­ed their own triathlon. It takes a lot of' training and dedication, but when you're done you will know three sp.orts -running, swimming and biking. Because there is so much training, a members have to practice on their own from time to time. There are people .available to help you set-up a program. though. Only girls belong to this club, but they will accept boys. Contact Jean Tierney if you arc interested. 
Spain offers student an indescribable experience 
I bought a CD in Spain that reminds me. with simply its opening chords, how I feel about the country. Now, when I struggle to find the words to answer the often-repeated question, "So, how was Spain?" I think of the 
music and, in an 
Jacqueline instant. I'm hurtling 
through six time 
Ostrowski 

zones and over an expanse of ocean, beyond the invisible
Scene Writer 

language barrier 
and into the depths 
of my memories. Overwhelmed by the melodies and the recollections they bring, l return to Toledo, my home for the three and a half months of Fall semester 2000. 
Without buying a plane ticket or packing my bags, I find myself arriv• ing in the heart of Toled(i again, the way I always did, bouncing up the steep, slanting roads on one of the many ubiquitous city buses. Suddenly, the maze of streets opens into a clear­ing and the Plaza Zocodover comes into view ahead. 
To the left side, a string of cheerful marzipan shops flanks the familiar plaza, beckoning to tourists and ·natives alike with endless rows of' almond-scented treats. Clusters of yel­low-tinged buildings and cafes with plentiful outdoor seating form the semicircular border of Zocodover. Busy at all hours, the plaza offers the observer a broad spectrum of Spaniards; elderly couples who have seen generations come and go in this old city, boisterous youth who spill into the streets as they shout out their plans for the evening, and middle­aged women who expertly sidestep the crowds en route to the local bak­ery to buy the bread of the day. Except for the whining pitch of the occasional youth-driven motorcycle, the town center of Toledo appears much as I'd imagine it did a few hun­dred years ago. 
From Zocodover, I'd navigate the winding cobblestone streets effortless­ly, making sharp turns and finding shortcuts to a pleasant plaza, where the crowds fade away and paved roads and tourists are only memories. In this quiet, persistently sunny cor­ner of medieval Toledo is the Fundacion Ortega y Gasset, the school for international students where Notre Dame students spend their semester or academic year. I remem­ber clearly the central courtyard where we danced to the music of a Spanish band under the open night sky. and the daily anticipation of our 2 p.m. lunch, Spanish-style, which always seemed to take too long to arrive. 
All of this, these familiar places and swirls in my mind, as I open my eyes and find myself at Notre Dame once again; the music in my mind dissolves and I'm faced with a friend awaiting my answer. "How was Spain?" he'll. 
repeat. 

"It was incredible; it changed my life," I'll always respond, unable to put into words my muddled thoughts. And my friend will nod and smile, confident that those seven words are a fair representation of my experi­ence. I'm only sorry that I can't take everyone I know back there, for no words on paper can capture the color and vitality of the semester abroad, and no descriptions can do justice to the place I called home while I was away. 

Scene writer Jacqueline Ostrowski (second from right) and friends take a pic­ture in Salamanca, Spain. 

s 
..,. 
Monday, January 29, 200 I page 11 
eally move 
slesser known University-sponsored sports clubs 
Yard Darts 
The Yard Darts Club is new this year. The club president, Anthony Pagliarini, a junior in Dillon hall, is currently accepting new members. He says, "The nice thing about yard darts is that they're uwr.some." Thr. snow doesn't get in the way because all rnembnrs have their own st,t of hoops and darts. They can just pick up and move where uv(1r. They compete with othnr Midwest schools and hope soon to start hilting the. East Coast. The competition is lforee. bncause the sport is so cutting Pdgc and action packfid. Thu club slogan is. "Wlwrn there's a yard. there's a dart." 
Salling 
Thu University of Notre Dame Sailing Club, part of the Midwest Collegiate Sailing Assuciation, is often a con­tendur in national competi­tions. They use St. .Joseph Lakn for sailing lessons. prac­tices and regattas. Formed in 1950. tlrn dub prides itself on lwing able to balance compe­tition wilh academic excel­lence. The sailing club is not in charge of the Fisher Begatta, although that involves boats also. 
Climbing 
The Climbing Club is a cul­ture all unto itself. It is laid back, which is funny. because huge investment in the neces­Mary's Equestrian Club is one l'alse move and you could sary equipment and gear. "horserif'ic." If you've ever die. The club usually goes as They practice at llockne in wanted to learn how to ride a a group in a van to some cool the climbing room. There are horse, the opportunity is here. climbing place ror Spring also several weekend trips to You can get horse riding Break. It is a great place to outdoor climbing sites. lessons for $30 a pop and, if start learning about climbing you get good, you can start
Equestrian
without having to make a competing. Oh, and yes, you
The Notre Dame/Saint 

The University of Notre Dame Sailing Club competes in competitions at the national level and is one of Notre Dame's oldest clubs. 
can bring your own horse, but please ask first. This semester there are three shows on the schedule. l-lorsemanship is an art and equestrian skills do not come easily, these ath­letes often go without much recognition although they are highly developed. They also have really cool T-shirts. 
Rodeo 
The Rodeo Club is a rela­tively new club. They compete with other schools in events like roping. bull riding and steer wrestling. It might seem a little strange to some of us from non-rodeo areas. but in places like Oklahoma and Wyoming. rodeo teams and clubs arc large and prosper­ous. The team is a member of the National Intercollegiate Rodeo Association. There arc local rodeos in Elkhart every couple of weeks once the snow is gone, so if you arc interested. it wouldn't be a bad idea to go chuck them out. 
There are many other ath­letic clubs out there. Chances 
..,,. are you are not the only one who likes your favorite sport here on campus. All you have to do is go out and 11nd them. And maybe life seems a little dull lately. There is no better way feel good about the day than by joining a club! 
Social Concerns seminars off er exciting alternative 
Concerns seminars offered Through the study and dis­L'Arche Communities Washington Seminar By JOSEPH LAKE through the Center for Social cussion of a particular issue Seminar Probably the most evolved Seel\< Wri1cr As a small group, partici­of the four seminar offerings
Concerns provide a great facing humanity, the one­
pants on the L'Arche Seminar this spring, this policy-orient­
opportunity to learn about credit courses culminate with l;lorida? Washington, D.C.? issues of social prominence a student paper that fosters will live and work with people ed opportunity focuses on a Toronto, Canada? Would you while enjoying some time with reflection on the seminar with disabilities in Toronto. different issue of social con­like to visit these or any of other students away from the experience. These social con­Canada. Spending time at the cern each year. This year's three other eastern states gloomy weather of South cerns seminars range in cost Daybreak facility that was focus of International 
Humanitarian Issues is a
during spring break? Social Bend. from $100 to $200 dollars, so madB famous by theologian 
they are perfect for the stu­Henri Nouwen, the course will timely topic considering the dent on a budget this spring. discuss the issues facing peo­increased focus on sweatshop The following is a brief ple with disabilities through labor within the past year. Participants will meet with
glimpse of the four initiatives examining the works of Jean Vanier and Henri Nouwen. top political leaders and non-
that are offered during the 
Daily reflection and discus­. profit organizations in the city
upcoming spring semester 
sion is designed to help of Washington, D.C. that work
break. 
process and articulate the to improve the conditions of' experience, provoking group those exploited in uur World.
Appalachia Seminar 
The Appalachia Seminar is learning and understanding. This seminar is a grna t glimpse into the trials and
one of the longest running 
tribulations of' promoting a
and most established semi­Migrant Experiences 
social issue within the fast­
nars offered through the Seminar The Migrant Seminar is paced society in which we
Center for Social Concerns. With sites across West designed to introduce stu­live. -Virginia, Kentucky and dents to the cultural and social issues surrounding Arn you interested in one or
Virginia. approximatP-ly 300 
migrant farm labor through more of these seminar oppor­
Notre Dame students have their Appalachia experience experiential learning. Taking tunities? Do you want to get to know a new group of' stu­
at one of 10 locations across·· place in the small town of 
Immokalee, Florida, students dents? Or do you simply enjoy
the region. The course is 
will spend tlrn week living in long van rides'! If' you answer
unique from traditional course offerings because it community with families that yes to any of the proceeding questions stop by the Center
fosters active participation in make their living as migrant the community and direct workers. Students learn first for Social Concerns for more hand the difficulties and information. Applications for
relationship with the Appalachian people in order injustices by working in the the spring semester seminars to learn about issues econom-field side by side with migrant listed above will be accepted
Pholo courtesy of The Center tor Social Concerns 
until 10:00p.m. on
ic and social issues facing the workers that face these strug­
Notre Dame students participate In the Florida Migrant 
gle everyday. Wednesday Jan. 31.
region.
Experiences seminar, offered by the Center for Social Concerns. 

"T'T#'"f"~ --1':lT"T'" -~ 
page 12 
The Observer . SPORTS Monday, January 29, 2001 
Basketball 

continued from page 20 
the Big East West Division race. Notre Dame's normal strategy would be to turn All­American Troy Murphy loose inside and keep forwards Ryan Humphrey and Harold Swanagan. who were shooting just 54 percent from the foul 
line in league play prior to Saturday, far from the charity stripe. ­
Yet Murphy was relegated to the bench after fouling out with four minutes, 27 seconds to play. Brey called a quick timeout to tell the team his tactics for garnering the upset victory. 
"We wanted to look a little more perimeter-oriented," Brey said of his game plan 
Mid-season grades 
A 
A­
B B+ B+ 
B 

offense: The Irish forte is scoring. The loaded back­court of Graves, Carroll and Jngelsby is supplemented by down-low threats Murphy, Humphrey and Swanagan, and the Irish have no trouble here. Even individual slumps are overshadowed, bccausl:l there's always another weapon on the mark. 
ball-handling: Ingelsby has silenced many critics by 
leading the league in assist/turnover ratio, while 
Carroll has nearly equaled his older teammate in the same category. The point play isn't quick or flashy, 
but it's stealthy and consistent. 
defense: Broy had to drill the idea of an active man­to-man into his squad's head after staying in zone most of last year. Yet it's finally caught on, and the 
Irish are holding conference opponents to one of 
the lowest point totals and field goal shooting per­
centages of any Big East team. 
rebounds: Murphy and Humphrey are among the league's best, and they should be with their athleti­cism. Swanagan provides a boost when in. One thermometer for Irish success is whether the rest of the squad keeps up its end of the bargain. 
hustle: Swanagan's the king of floor burns, and 
Carroll's gotten up close and personal with the 
hardwood at times. Since the new year began, the 
other players have been taking cues from 
Swanagan, and Graves has become a star pupil 
since moving to the role of Super Sub. 
teamwork: Notre Dame's "starting six" are long on talent. The only problem with having so much skill is finding a way to juggle roles and keep team goals above personal aims. Working together netted wins over Syracuse and Georgetown, and a lack con­tributed to early season losses. 
bench: It's tough to rate this group, since a faceC+beyond the top six rarely enters the lineup. However, more was expected from Jones, Macura 
B+ 

and Kartelo at the season's start. 
coaching: The Irish have a different feel than they did beneath Doherty. Late season play will determine which style has been more successful, but the team is on a roll right now and at the top of its division. 
3.25 

overall: Notre Dame's voice squeaked a bit as growing pains and the pressure of high expectations hit, but adolescence seems over as the Irish ride a four-game winning streak. Better to work through problems early than discover them in the midst of March Madness, a phenomenon the Irish are likely to experience for the first time in more than a decade. 
hold on Notre Dame after a 3­pointer by Anthony Perry. 
The Hoyas held the Irish in check much of the game with a daunting defense. 
Their double-teams of Murphy slyly avoided refer­ees' whistles while the offi­cials readily blew their horns on Murphy, who scored 16 points in 34 minutes of play. 
"They're a tough team to control the tempo against. because they press." said Carroll, who coughed up a 
team-high six 
assists in the
"There are going to be a
The Irish were forced to coach Craig win. "Theylook elsewhere for offensive Esherick lot oftimes throughout play greatele·ctricity. Instead of swinging said after. 
our careers that [Murphy] defense. It 
the ball around the outside. the game, 
seems like
is not going to be there to
Notre Dame pumped it in to "but it was they have 
Humphrey and Swanagan in at the end help us out every time. " seven guys on the paint, taking their chances W h c n 
the floor at 
with the post men's marks­Murphy was once. 
manship from the line. out that they But the Irish Amazingly, Humphrey and stretched 
held on by
Swanagan hit 10 of 13 free out the lead. holding the throws down the stretch and Swanagan league scor­Nol.re Dame took over with a n d ing leaders to Murphy watching in the Humphrey, 71. their sec­
wings. two guys ond -1 owes t "There are going to be a lot that we were total of the of times throughout our trying to s e a s o n . careers," Swanagan said, foul, made Graves, who 

once Murphy picked up his fifth personal. a patty cake call on a shot by Georgetown's Demetrius Hunter. "We're not so much of a low post team at that point." 
Hunter tossed up two gutter balls from the line. and Irish guard Matt Carroll tugged down the rebound. At the other end of the floor, Georgetown's defense eschewed Brey's strategy by keeping Notre Dame perime­ter shooters Matt Carroll, David Graves and Martin lngelsby tied up. 

combined to poach the ball from the Hoyas. Humphrey rebounded a missed field goal by Carroll, and Swanagan banged in the second chance shot, getting fouled along the way. 
After a Georgetown timeout with 1:38 left. Swanagan fin­ished off the 3-point play to swell the Irish lead to seven. 
"I never thought that 1 would be sitting here telling you that I thought Notre Dame played better without Murphy than with him." Hoya 
"that he [Murphy] is not going to be there to help us out everv time." 
Humphrey batted down both free throws for Notre Dame·s first lead of the game, a 61-59 threshold, with 3:57 to play. After an official timeout, Georgetown's Wesley Wilson, who scored 10 points off the bench, missed his own put­back, and Humphrey grabbed the board. 
Back on offense, Humphrey, who led the Irish with 17 points and 10 rebounds, 
couldn't  guide  the  ball  
through  the  hoop,  but  
Swanagan eked  out  the  

rebound and was hammered in the process. The 6-foot-7 junior, starting his fourth straight game in place of Graves, followed through with two free throws to crank the Irish ahead by four. 
"Swanagan's been the guy we've used as an example with our team to do the tough, dirty little things," Brey said. "He is so well respected by his teammates I think at times he has shamed them into taking charges, diving after loose balls and setting screens." 
Both teams failed to convert on their next offensive series, then Humphrey and Graves 
free throws, and that was a big part of how they closed the game." 

At the other end, Swanagan rebounded a shot by Georgetown's second-leading scorer, Ruben Boumtje. who the Irish held scoreless on the day. The Hoyas, desperate to geCback in the game, fouled Swanagan, who sank his fifth straight free throw. 
Humphrey connected on one of two free throws a few sec­onds later to close out a 19-2 Notre Dame explosion. The scoring stream began on back-to-back treys by Graves and a long distance shot by Ingelsby to tie the game at 59, Notre Dame's first tie since a 2-2 start. 
The Hoyas whittled the Irish lead to seven in the final minute. After Lee Scruggs, who topped Georgetown's scorers with 17, and Gerald Riley, fouled out, the Irish hung back from defending the Hoyas. choosing to avoid any piddly fouls that could cut at their scoring handicap. 
Georgetown carved out an early lead. crafting as large as an eight-point advantage sev­eral times, the latest a 54-46 
scored 15 in 
the game, 
ground out 
one of his best defensive efforts this year. Notre Dame as a whole outrebounded Georgetown. which leads the Big East in boards per game, 38 to 37. 
The tag team road win com­pleted Notre Dame's primer lesson in life without Murphy. Two days practicing without their 6-foot-10 captain this week helped school the Irish in avoiding the Fall of Troy. Murphy missed most of Thursday's practice with a sore toe, and a hard blow to the head early in Friday's workout sidelined him the day before battling the Hoyas. 
Notes 

. 
Reserve center Ivan Kartelo sprained, an ankle in practice late last week, and is out indefinitely. 

. 
Murphy leads the Irish and the Big East in scoring with 


24.3 points per conference game. Humphrey, Graves and Carroll trail Murphy. each averaging 11.9 points apiece. 
. Brey, a native of the Washington area, won the first game in his hometown since being named the head coach of the Irish last July. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Noire Dame o_ffice. 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves che right 10 edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SUMMER JOBS! Camp Tecumseh Advertising sales VOLUNTEERS NEEDED SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND YMCA is now hiring for Cabins, Are you a self starter eager to work LOST & FOUND GOOD AREA FOR SALE Equestrian, Aquatics, and Support for the most respected advertising The Early Childhood Development 
277-3097. staff. We are a Christian camp company? Center. located at Saint Mary's FOUND: PHONE CARDS located near Lafayette, IN. Season Are you interested in a long lasting College and the University of Notre Watch at DeBartolo.Hall. ALL THE GOOD HOUSES ARE $20 -2601 min with .49 cent is 1Oweeks. Salary $1900-$2300. and rewarding career selling to Dame, is looking for volunteers who Must identify to claim. NOT GONE! surcharge or Representative will be on campus business owners? enjoy young children. 
We have 2, 4&5 bedroom houses $20-Feb. 8. Call for an application You can easily start earning If you would be interested in spend-FOUND: five minutes from campus/ 362 min with no surcharge today! Call 1-800-382-2267 $40k/year + bonuses and perks and ing 2 hours a week reading chil• Glasses at DeBartolo Hall Dave 291-2209 634-4210-SARA or (www.camptecurnseh.org) It's an .head up our new South Bend terri-dren's books, building with blocks, Must identi!i'. to claim. Macos@michiana.org 634-1146 CLAUDIA experience that lasts a lifetime! tory. Please fax your resume and a and singing songs with children. 
brief letter selling us why you're the please call Kari Alford at 284-4693 
A11ailable immediately Beautilul brass bed, queen size, Need tix to ND v. Seton Hall on one. (ECDC-SMC) or Debbie Hart at FOR RENT 3 bdrm, 1 112 bath home with orthopedic mattress set and 2118. 888-206-4054 631-3344 (ECDC-ND). 
1 mi. from ND $300/wk. + utilities delw<e frame. All new, never used. Gall 243-9306 Please join our fun-filled days. 3-5 BEDROOM HOMES CLOSE Discount for monthly or 1 semester still in plastic. TO CAMPUS payments Security Deposit $235. Wanted: 2 tickets for the 2/18 Men's PERSONAL D.C. Rules! 232·2595 mmmrentals@aol.com required. 219-862-2082. basketball game vs. Seton Hall 
1-800-867-5901 Please call WE MISS YOU, So do the people that are studying HOUSES FOR RENT: 1-877-288-9330 4-3593. PATRICK there ... except I don't take off my 
1) 5-br $900/month. WANTED shoes at basketball games 
2) 4-br $1000/month. Available Immediately PET REFUGE, a no-kill animal JUNIOR PARENT WEEKEND 
3) 3-br $600/month. Duplex: 1 bdrm efficiency Parents who are ND grads seek shelter just 10 min. from campus, So what if we missed Madam's We"II make almost any changes to About 1 mi. from ND older female babysitter to care for needs volunteers and losters. Have your parents stay in real "Irish Organ, The Noa Noa was Kerry's the houses. $125/wk includes utilities two girls ages 7 & 9, Please call 256-0886 or visit Comfort• at more affordable prices favorite night spot. 
Call Bill at Discount for monthly or 1 semester one or two weekend evenings & www.petrefuge.com and email us. than area hotels. Gourmet break­675-0776 payments occationally weekends or evenings tast brunch included. Hi, I'm Tony from Venezuela 
Security deposit required in our home. COOKS AND DELIVERY DRIVERS Call The Wild Irish Rose Inn at HOUSE FOR LEASE 7/01 Available immediately Must have own car. WANTED CALL BORACHO INC. 277-4303 Thanks for everything Pat. Kerry 4/5 BEDRM. 3 BLOCKS TO CAM· 1-800-867-5901 Call Judith and leave message: AT or 11isit our site: and I had a great time. PUS. 773-486-8822 1-877-288-9330 287-0260. 258-9834. www.irishrose.com Jose:-) 
------· -------------------­

Are you looking for a dynamic and rewarding career in investmentbanking? Do you want to be in a job with a lotof responsibility and opportunity? [)o yC>u vvant to work in an environment where achievement and reward are naturally connected? Then you •• 
should consider joining .the lJBS Warburg team. 


We are accepting resumes from the Class of 2002 interested inInternship positions in our Sales & Trading division. Interviews will be held on Wednesday, February 21st. 
We welcome those interested to apply via your Career Services office by Tuesday, January 30th. 
www.ubswarburg.com 
·-----·····J;!i:.I.!i;{·•~19b~-,---car~ers.·.·in• · 
,i-L~ll!~i:ir;i,~il)9\ 
.i:;;;1n?1irnf .·::\··. ·.:.:__ __· _::::: ___ ·. ·/ .-_· >( .... BS\l\(arb1.1r9 UC «1sut>sldlaryofJij(~ri §q~.-1 pppr;>rtUf'lity -~rnplQ-yei.
:-·····::::::=::-·.·,,··.········•· •,•••·· '-·' ... ···:· 
{i~l\::;:;-:;: . 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, January 29, 2001 

Esherick 
continued from page 20 
head, seemingly in disbelief as lngelsby pumped his fist and the Irish bench jumped to its feet. 
After all, why would Esherick expect the shot to come from Ingels by. an assist artist rather than Graves who has no reser­vations about tossing up the long shot whether he's on or not, or Carroll who had already come through with a couple clutch threes? 
He didn't. 
And so went Notre Dame's unlikely 78-71 upset Saturday over No. 10 Georgetown. It wasn't the score that was unlikely; it was the way it hap­pened. 
"Our defense was very good in the first half," Esherick said. "But in the second half we left guys that can shoot well open." 
That and Esherick bet heavily that Notre Dame would play its typical basketball game. 
He gambled that when Troy 1\-i.:rphy, the bedrock of the Irish offense fouled out with 
4:27 remaining, he could elimi­nate the Irish post play and quiet the fans to swing momen­tum back the Boyas' way. 
He gambled that forwards Ryan Humphrey and Harold Swanagan would put on their typical less-than-stellar perfor­mances from the free throw lire. 
And he gambled that his team could keep up its impres­sive field goal percentage to close out the game. 
But in a high-stakes game with the top spot in the Big East West Division on the line, none of the dice rolled in Esherick's favor. 
Great teams know how to risk it all and lay it on the line when it counts and the Irish gave the Hoyas a quick glimpse of that greatness in the game's final stretch. 
"We knew we had to stay close and then make a run at the end," Murphy said. "We knew we could win and we came to play." 
Just not in the usual way. 

No one could have scripted a better plot and made it believ­able. But, sometimes truth is stranger than fiction. And a lot more exciting, too. 
As the minutes ticked off the clock, the Hoyas needed just one card to fall in their favor; the Irish needed them all. And while Georgetown could not even grab one break, Notre Dame found them all. 
And the Irish did it for the 

most part without Murphy. 
"It just shows we're a big time team," Humphrey said. "Troy is a big asset, but we're not a one-man team. Everyone can come out and play." 
Humphrey and teammate 

Swanagan came not only to play, but to lead by example in the final minutes. taking their game to new heights. 
Targeted as easy marks by the Hoyas, the pair had shot just over 50 percent from the line in Big East games this sea­son. 
But just minutes away from tasting their second big upset in less than a week, Swanagan went 7-7 from the line while Humphrey added 5-8. causing Esherick's strategy to backfire. 
"Swanagan and Humphrey made their free throws," Esherick said. "It's a big part of how they closed the game. I don't know what you can do for free throw defense. I haven't figured out a way to guard from the line yet." 
Even with the poise of the Humphrey and Swanagan. the Boyas could have pulled out a win with their usually consis­tent offensive arsenal. But the team that had been averaging a little more than 50 percent from the floor most of the game suddenly went cold. Unable to score on nine straight posses­sions over five minutes, the Boyas felt the game slip away as the Irish went on a 17-2 run to surprise the 17 -2 Big East power house. 
. "It wasn't necessarily making bad decisions and taking poor shots," Esherick said. "It was more a product of trying to catch up and having to go for it." 
But on an improbable after­noon, It was Notre Dame, not Georgetown, that went for it and got it all. 
When officials called Murphy for his fifth foul. the Hoyas thought the scales had tipped in their favor. But they forgot the weight a team hungry for an upset can have when each player carries more than his usual load. 
And that extra weight has now upped the stakes for the rest of the season, as the Irish will ascend to the No. 1 division spot. 
"It's good," Murphy said. "It's not bad. Nice. Hopefully it will stay that way." 
After Saturday's improbable outcome, it should be expected. 
/'-----------,
49¢g~~~s
single-sided on 8.5" x 11" 28 lb. paper. 
You'll be amazed by the quality. 
COPY SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center 
On lhe Campus ol the Univers~y of Noire Dame 
Call 631-COPY 
FREE Pick-Up & Delivery 
See store for details. Coupon required. Hurry -expires 2114/01. \, Not valid with any other offer or discount..,,,,,l
___________ J. 
JOSE CUELLAR/The Observer 
Senior point guard Martin lngelsby moves past a swarming Georgetown defense during Saturday's 78-71 Irish victory. lngelsby hit a crucial 3-pointer In the second half to ice the win. 
Whether You Are Buying A New Home, Or Refinancing Your Current One... 
We Can Help With Great Rates! 
Main Office Office Hours 19033 Douglas Road Monday -Thursday 
P.O. Box 7878 8:30 a.m. -5:00 p.m. Notre Dame, IN 46556-7878 Friday 
219/ 239-6611 8:30 a.m. -5:30 p.m.
'/i.­
NOTREDAME 

~ 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You can bank on us 
mu aOUSIMC 

LENDER to be better. 



Monday, January 29, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 

WINTER WEATHER GETTING YOU DOWN? • ~ "~,,,,~-­.'1 ' -~ . ':,• '-. -. .. ,.:, \ J . -, ' ~· THIS THIS  Student Special Monday Only r--------------------, r--------------------, : $15 l : $10 : I I I I : Women's Haircut : : Men's Haircut : I I I I 1 and Style , 1 and Style 1L--------------------J L--------------------J1357 N. Ironwood Rd. 289-511811 All Seruices are performed by Hairstylists in Training Ualid only w/ Julie or Lisa  

 
JOIN ND HABITAT OVER SPRING BREAK FOR A BUILDING TRIP IN BEAUTIFUL LONG BEACH, CAUFORNIA COME TO THE INFORMATIONAL MEETING: TODAY!!! Monday, January 29 at 9:00 pm in the CSC  gAJ.t,Al DEMONSTRATION: TUESDAY, JANUARY 30 7:00PM RSRC ACT. RM. 2 Intro to Latin Dancing: 'l\tesdays 7-Spm Intermediate Latin Dancing: 1\tesdays 8-9pm RSRC Act. Rm 2 Classes begin Tuesday February 6 $1 7 per semester Registration 8:00am, Wednesday January 31 Space is Limited For More Info, call RecSports at 1-6100 -"e"'e ~~~e. R-=-~ /  


WORD2000: 
The Essentials 
Do you know the basics of using Word, but still spend way too much time formatting your research papers? This hands-on. two-hour class will introduce you to intermediate-level features of Word that can help you create professional looking documents. 
Classes are free, but you need to register in advance. Class materials are also included. 
Class dates and times: 
Tuesday, February 6, 7-9 pm L003 classroom, Mendoza College of Business (Windows) 
Wednesday, February 7, 7-9 pm G015 cluster, Computer Center Math Building (Windows) 
Thursday, February 8, 7-9 pm G015 cluster, Computer Center Math Building (Windows) 
Sunday, February 11, 2-4 pm L003 classroom, Mendoza College of Business (Windows) 
To register, see the StudentTraining Program Web site: 
www.nd.edu/-stp _ 
or call 631-7227 

Please,-! 
.¦

D¦ Office of Information Technologies 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Belles cartwheel into MIAA cellar 
By KATIE McVOY Assistant Spores Editor 
In a game that left fans without a smile, a Katie Christiansen cartwheel with a minute and a half left was enough to make the crowd at Angela Athletic Facility go crazy. 
But even the antics weren't enough to capture a game for the Belles, as Saint Mary's dropped its seventh consecu­tive matchup against Albion College Saturday, 56-69. 
The Christiansen cartwheel came as an attempt to miss falling on an Albion player late in the second half. With the score at 51-62, it was enough to pep up a disap­pointed crowd. 
Coming into Saturday's game, a must-win game to remain out of last place in the MIM, the Belles were looking for a chance to get back on their feet and win. However, the Britons of Albion (1-16) were looking for that same opportunity. It was the Britons that came out on top. 
"I think this team was better 

than us," head coach Suzanne 
Smith said. "We had it in our 
minds that we could just get 
out there and not do anything 
and win." 
The effort was there for the 

Belles, but the focus was not. 
Anne Blair started off the 

game with a field goal to put 
the Belles on top. Ten minutes 
into the first quarter, a foul 
sent Christiansen to the line in the bonus. and she made both foul shots, keeping Saint Mary's in the lead 18-16. That was the last time the Belles would be in control of the game. 
Saint Mary's shot 28 percent during the first half. leaving them behind by four as the halftime buzzer sounded. Although their shooting per­centage went up in the second half, turnovers, a weak defense, and a general loss of' focus dropped the Belles to the 13 point deficit that ended the game. 
"We just lost focus," Smith said. "We may have looked and the score and just given up." 
Albion scored 15 points early in the second half; Saint Mary's only answered with four. After that, the closest the Belles came was within eight. 
"We're having a hard time right now," Smith said. "We need someone to step up right now and its not happening." 
Blair led the team in offense again, with 16 total points. Katie Miller and Shaun Hussell joined her with nine and eight points, respectively. 
Becky Cambpell lead the Britons with 18 points. Teammates Amanda Yeater and Stacey Supanich joined her with 12 and 13 points, as the three players totaled over half of the Britons' offense. 
The Belles take the road to 

face off against Alma College 
in Michigan Wednesday night. 


.· page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, January 29, 2001 

MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish swing .500 against Big Ten coIDpetition 
Aaron Talarico seemed to defeat settle in their stomachs "To see Casey Smith emergeBy RACHEL BIBER have clinched the doubles for long, the Irish regrouped as a viable, and actually a very
Sports Writer 
point for the Irish. Indiana's for a 5-2 victory over the Ohio good number one player, has Ricardo Jordan and Rahman State Buckeyes on the road. been a surprise and certainly One thing the Irish men's Smiley had other plans in "When you play high level a big boost to us," Bayliss said. tennis team has already mind for Notre Dame's 38th­competition you don't have "Casey's skills have improved. learned the hard way this sea­ranked duo, capitalizing on a time to feel sorry for yourself," He has great speed and ath­son is that every point counts. double fault by Taborgn at Bayliss said. "There is a real leticism and he has the heart No. 33 Notre Dame surren­match point to eventually knot sense of urgency. I think we of a champion. The good thing dered a bitter defeat to the the tiebreaker at 6-6 and seal did a great job of picking our-about Casev is that he has a 27th-ranked Indiana Hoosiers the win 12-10. selves off lot of upside, he has a lot of by the slimmest of margins After evening the ground, room to grow more than many Thursday before recovering the score at 1-1 "I felt that Ohio State and realiz­of the guys. He still has a cou­nicely to defeat 32nd-ranked with an impres­ing what ple of levels that he can
was a level better than 
Ohio State on Saturday. sive win by had to be achieve if he keeps putting in 
"I expected to win (against Talarico at No. Indiana -but it was by done and the same kind of concentrated Indiana). I think the guys 4 singles. the far the best match we've going out effort." expected to win, and certainly Irish found and doing With the score tied at 2-2,
played to date. ,,
we were in position to win in themselves in a it," significant support was given several matches," Irish head 3-1 hole with Taborga by the lower half of the Irish coach Bob Bayliss said. "When singles losses by Bob Bayliss a n d singles lineup with wins by we look back on it we're all 7 5th-ranked Talarico Haddock-Morales at No. 4 sin­
men's tennis coach 
going to feel that we let it slip Taborga, who through our fingers. However, was weakened I felt that Ohio State was a by an illness, and Haddock­level better than Indiana -Morales. but it was by far the best Notre Dame did not succumb match we've played to date." to defeat easily against the 
The Irish, who now stand at Hoosiers, evening the score 3-1, dropped their first dual once again with wins by 95th­match of the season with the ranked Smith, who rallied for loss against the Hoosiers, and a 7-5, 4-6, 6-2, win over 53rd­although the defeat was ranked Milan Rakvica at No. 1 recorded in the loss column, singles, and Brian farrell, who the Irish could not have gotten pulled out a 5-7, 6-4, 6-1 vic­any closer to victory tory over Bernard Tsepelman 
Notre Dame began the day at No. 6 singles. with an 8-4 win by Casey The hard-fought battle Smith and Luis Haddock­between the Irish and the Morales at No. 2 doubles, and Hoosiers came down to the No. looked to capture the doubles 5 singles match, pitting Notre point and erase any thoughts Dame's Matt Scott against of its 4-3 defeat against Indiana's Zach Held. Without Indiana last season. But the any lack of drama, Held was Hoosiers swept the [rish in the able to squeak by Scott, win­remaining doubles matches, ning in a third set tiebreaker taking both No. 1 and No. 3 to take the match 7-6 (8-6), 4­doubles in tiebreakers. 6, 7-6 (7-4), and clinch the 
With a 6-4 lead in the dual-match win for the tiebreaker of the No. 1 doubles Hoosiers. match, Javier Taborga and Not letting the stinging 
The Department of English Presents an Informal Talk for Undergraduates by 
PAUL RATHBURN 
Associate Professor of English University of Notre Dame 
"SUMMER SHAKESPARE AT NOTRE DAME" 
Tuesday, January 30th, 7:30 p.m. 
Gold Room, North Dining Hall 
Refreshments Will Be Served. 
were able gles and Farrell at No. 5 sin­
to redeem gles, which lead to Notre themselves at No. 1 doubles, Dame victory. Scott rounded coming back from a 4-6 deficit out the success for Notre against the Buckeyes' Andrew Dame by winning at No. 6 sin­CarIson and Jonathon Scale gles, giving the Irish the 5-2 for an 8-6 win to clinch the dual match triumph. doubles point for t_he Irish. 
Smith and Haddock-Morales 
came up with the other Irish victory in doubles with an 8-4 win at No. 2 doubles, while Notre Dame's James Malhame and Scott suffered defeat in the No. 3 match. 
Ohio State quickly jumped to 
-----blues guf!arisf
a 2-1 lead with wins over Taborga and Talarico at the No. 2 and No. 3 singles match­
Tuesday, tebruary 6, 200 I 
es respectively. Smith was able to get the Irish back on 
7:30P.M. in the little Theatre
track, beating the Buckeyes' Chris Porter 5-7, 6-4, 7-5, improving his singles record to 
S,lnl .,.,,,, Coll•r•o 

a perfect 4-0 on the year. 
JM8_~,[k,

Porter upended Smith 5-7, 6­0, 6-0, last year, giving testa­~HOTRS' DAM.I', IN ment to Smith's much 
for ti'.lrt info~mation co_ntact Z8/_/6Z6
improved game. 
the Samt Mary l Box Officf at 1f 1f 
{1--rtl ''Encuentro Chicago" Retreat ••
C~NTEA Fca 
SOCIAL 
0MPUS 
CONCERNS 
"An overnight immersion in Chicago's 
MINl5TRY 
Latino neighborhood of Pilsen" 
Join us for the Weekend of February 10-11, 2001 
Experience: The Resurrection Project 
Cristo Rey High School St. Pius V. Parish 
Registration forms available at the Center for Social Concerns or the Institute for Latino Studies. Forms can be handed in at the Center for Social Concerns. Registration Deadline is February 2'ut 
Ravens 
continued from page 20 
big plays and we made them when we needed them. We aren't pretty, like St. Louis, but we got the job done. This is a team that puts wins ahead of stats." 
Jamal Lewis, who carried 29 times for 102 yards, added a 3-yard run in the fourth quarter. and Matt Stover. who had a 47-yard field goal in the second quar­ter, added a 38-yarder in the fourth. 
Neither team had a first down in its first two posses­sions, but Baltimore kept inching closer to the New York goal on the exchange of punts. 
The Giants got a first down on their third possession, when they were pinned back against their goal line. But they had to punt and the Ravens got a 34-yard return from Jermaine Lewis that gave them a first down at the New York 41 to start the series. 
[RIC BIBB 



Monday, January 29, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Irish splash past fatigue, win consecutive dual meets 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Spom Wrir"r 
If the Notre Dame women's swimming team was tired, they didn't show it. 
Just 24 hours after edging No. 23 Northwestern 154-146 Thursday night. Notre Dame turned around and upset No. 14 Michigan 157--143 on Friday afternoon to finish the dual meet sea.son 10-1. 
best 56.0 in the 100-yard backstroke and a 2:00.47 in the 200-yard backstroke, chopping nearly three seconds of her pre­
vious best. Hecking w o u l d eclipse the mark a day 1 a t e r against Michigan. 
Freshman 


M a r i e Hecklng Labo sky also had a tremendous week­
end by taking home five indi­vidual victories. She won the 1,000-yard freestyle against both Michigan and Northwestern -her time of 
10:03.16 against the Wildcats is her best performance of the season. 
Labosky also took first in the 200-yard individual medley and the 500-yard freestyle against Northwestern, and she won the 400-yard individual medley against Michigan. 
The freshman also took sec­ond place in the 500-yard freestyle against the Wolverines -her NCAA quali­fying time of 4:53.49 was just five hundredths of a second of first and nearly four seconds faster than her time against Northwestern. 
"I think Marie made a tacti­
cal error in the 500, one that 
probably cost her the race," 
said Weathers. "She went out 
a little early. But she still had 
a great race." 
Junior Heather Mattingly won all four diving events. Her 
324.67 point total against Michigan was an NCAA-quali­fying mark. Mattingly has now won six consecutive diving events. 
"Heather's been solid for us all year," said Weathers. "When you compete against two Big Ten teams and win four boards, it's a great effort." 
The Irish used two complete­ly different strategies to knock of Northwestern and Michigan. Against the Wildcats, they relied on their depth to take crucial second and third place 
positions away from Northwestern. However, against the Wolverines, the Irish recorded four NCAA­qualifying performances and capturedlO out of 16 first place spots. 
Notre Dame counted on its depth to stay ahead of Northwestern, especially in the early events. Although the Wildcats took first in the 200­yard freestyle, the 100-yard breaststroke, and the 100­yard butterny, the Irish man­aged to secure enough places to still outscore the Wildcats. 
In the 200-yard freestyle, Lindsay Moorhead, Brenda Reilly. and Kristen Van Saun took second through fourth place. Laurie Musgrave and Allison Lloyd captured second and third in the 100-yard breaststroke. while Lisa Garcia and Sarah Bowman took second and third in the 100 butterfly. 
The Irish dominated Michigan in part because they took the top two places in mul­tiple events, allowing them to build an early lead. Van Saun followed Labosky in the 1,000­yard freestyle, while Musgrave and Lloyd took first and sec­ond in the 100-yard breast­stroke. 
In the 100-yard butterfly, Notre Dame went one-two­three as Amy Deger, Lisa D'Olier, and Garcia picked up crucial points for the Irish. Later, Musgrave also won the 200-yard breaststroke. 
"Amy was probably the biggest shock," said Weathers. "She really struggled on Thursday, and then on Friday, two of her races were lifetime bests." 
The Irish put an exclamation 
point on an outstanding week­
end by taking the top three 
places in the 400-yard individ­
ual medley when Labosky, 
Deger, and Tiffany O'Brien 
secured the Notre Dame victo­
ry. 
The Irish have three weeks 
without any competitions 
scheduled before they travel to 
New York for the Big East 
Championships. Notre Dame 
has won the last four conf'er­
ence titles. 
"The key for us now is rest," 
said Weathers. "We really 
have to individualize workouts 
now. You end up every day 
with a different workout !'or 
everyone." 
NOIIIY:,HH,HEIKS IETIERI 

"In all the time I've been here, I don't think we've ever had two meets that tough even within a week," said Notre Dame head coach Bailey Weathers. "To have two meets that tough back-to-back and win both is just incredible." · 
Junior Kelly Hecking led the way for the Irish with a pair of victories against Michigan in the 100-yard and 200-yard backstroke. Her times of 56.01 seconds in the 100 backstroke 
and 2:00.32 in the 200-yard backstroke were among her fastest performances of the year. 
"I think she's really, really excited about where she is at this point in the season," said Weathers. "Kelly's started to shift her focus from Big Easts to seeing what she can do at NCAAs." 
Against Northwestern, Hecking was equally as domi­nant. She swam a personal 

NANCY DE lc)s SANTOS 
Co-Prx JDUCEP AND WRITER Su. EENING THt DocuMENT/\1::iv 
"THE BRONZE SCREEN: JOO YEAPS ()f L\TINO IMAGES IN Hou_\WC)OD CINEMA" 

Frs IHEATrn, McKEN~A HALL BA-')E~IENT J;< 1cu1v1ENTAl.Y St-1c1w1NG AND D1.scuss10N IUl:SOAY, JN1UAWY 30, 2001 4:00 PM 
Pt-2fSENTED Bv: INSTITUTF FOR LAlINO 5TUDIES 

''Suninierti,ne & the Livin 's Easy...'' 
BEA SUMMER RESIDENCE HALL MANAGER OR ASSISTANTMANAGER: 
USE YOUR LEADERSHIP SKILLS 
H 

BE PART OF A WINNING TEAM . EARN A STIPEND AND FREE ROOM . MEET 18,000 STUDENTS & GUESTS 
APPLICATIONS RECEIVED BY FEBRUARY 12, 2001 WILL RECEIVE Pll.JORITY CONSIDERATION. 
APPLY AT 305 MAIN BUILDING, OFFICE OF STUDENT RESIDENCES 

page 18 Tiu Obseron-. SPORTS Monday, January 29, 2001 
Georgetown win exemplifies strong supporting cast 
" expert" Ted Fox analysis, which is 
only slight-Fox Sports... ly more Almost 
flawed than my frequently freezing computer, spit out Georgetown 69, Notre Dame 
61. 
OK, so reverse the winner and the loser, add 10 to both scores, and then subtract one from the higher point total. 
Or just say Notre Dame 78, Georgetown 71. 
Let's get down to what this game really showed. The Irish were on the road. Troy Murphy became the nation's highest scoring cheerleader with a lit­tle over four minutes to go in the game. The score was tied 

___. at 59, and the Irish hadn't led all day. Any one of these factors -a conference road game, losing your go-to-guy, battling in a close game -could have ended the conference winning 
I really have to stop underes­timating these Notre Dame basketball teams. 
When 

asked to make a prediction f o r Saturday's 
m e n ' s g a m e against No. 10 George­town, my streak at three. 


But they didn't. 
Harold Swanagan stepped up and filled the potential scoring void at the point in the game where it looked like Georgetown was ready to ~eep a quality win off the Irish resume_ 
Before Saturday's game. Swanagan had shot only 38 free throws on the season and made 23, good for around 60.5 percent. 
In those last four minutes, not only did he get to the line four times and attempt seven free throws, he hit all seven. 
With that little time left, on the road, in a game in which you're the underdog. shooting free throws can feel like trying to drop a basketball into a golf hole. no matter how good a shooter you are. Fortunately for Irish fans, the man at the line didn"t see it that way_ 
And it wasn't just Swanagan. This game for Notre Dame exemplified the contributions from all over the floor that it takes to reach the top of the conference standings. which is where the Irish currently reside. 
Five people scored in double digits, with Ryan Humphrey_ leading the way with 17 points (he also led the team with 10 boards). 
David Graves took a charge and got to know the paint bet­ter than Sherwin Williams. Graves. Matt Carroll. and Martin Ingelsby combined to go 7-11 from three ball range. These 21 points were three times (bad pun. I know) as important for the Irish, as Georgetown focused most of its defensive assault on the guys operating down low. 
With this string of wins, the Irish are on a roll now. Not a roll that has Dicky V. scream­ing: "Let's cut down the nets and raise the roof a.t the Joyce Center because this is Basketball City. USA, baby!" but a roll nonetheless. 
And you know, it's funny, but it seems like every time I write a column about a big Notre Dame win, I always end up talking about ho\Y the journey isn't over. Whether the senti­ment or my wording of it is the bigger cliche, I don't know, but it seems to hold true. 
When the team got back from the game yesterday. Matt Carroll talked about the upcoming Pittsburgh game and how he felt the loss in Panther country last year might have been one of those "bad" losses the selection committee looked at in leaving Notre Dame out ol' the NCM tournament. 
He and the rest of the team know that people can forget four straight wins pretty quick­ly if you lose lo a learn you've already beaten by 16 at home_ 
But who cares about what people think'? A loss next week­end would affect a team trying lo get to the Big Dance for the first time in years, after being snubbed last March, a lot more than the people who follow their games. 
Notre Dame knows that it needs to keep winning, whether it's Georgetown or No­Town, and it has proven it can do so with a diversified attack. 
And, like the beginning of the season, they're once again a team everyone wants to beat. 

·---------··----·--------~ 

i . I 

1Students familiar with both Mac (OS9) andr· 
. Windows (WIN2000 Professional, Server) 
· platforms as well as· networking.
' -, , ' : ' ' -,· ­
I ·,J I _--' 

, Must possess strong problem solving and . 
, administrative skills. --i ., , . 
' j . I ,· I 
#'""I. • • ,... 

Salaried Position. Average 5-7 hrs/wk. 1 v i , E-mail resume tQ mgunvill@nd.edu v . . J 
~#11O11O1O11O~11J r ·0l:1 
..; o •1 _-, (1 ·1 n 1 n 1 I""\ -1 • ~ 1 1 ,~ 
Spring Break Setninars March 10-18, 2001 Experiential/Service Learning Center for Social Concerns  
APPALACHIA SEMINAR -> Work and learn at one of 10 sites in the Appalachian region -> An ND tradition of service-learning L'ARCHE COMMUNITY SEMINAR -> Live for a week in community with persons with disabilities -> Read the work of Jean Vanier, Henri Nouwen MIGRANT EXPERIENCES SEMINAR -> Work in the fields with migrant workers -> Assist agencies that serve migrants -> Live with migrant families WASHINGTON SEMINAR Theme: International Humanitarian Issues -> Direct contact with political, agency, and Church leaders in Washington, D.C. •-> Service and political awareness opportunities All seminars offer one academic credit C:ENTEH FOIi -­SOCIAL Applications Available Now at the CSC CONCERNS Applications Due: Jan. 31, 2001  

Shorin-Ryu Karate Discipline•SelfDefense•Self Confidence•Fitness Classes begin Thursday, February 1 Continuous program• $25.00 per semester Meets: Tuesdays & Thursdays 6:00-7:30pm Rockne RM. 219 Demonstration: Tuesday, January 30 Rockne Rm. 219 • 6:30pm egister in advance at RecSports for classes R~~  
Down Hill Ski Trip Friday, February 2 Swiss Valley Bus leaves Library Circle at 5:00pm Cost: $32.00 Includes lift ticket, rental and transport $23.00 Lift ticket and transport only Return bus leaves Swiss Valley at I0:00pm Beginner Lessons Available ~Free ofCharge! Register and Pay at RecSports by January 31 R-~  


Monday, January 29, 2001 The Obm-ver . TO DAY page 19 ..... 
TYLER
TOM KEELEY 

THINGS COULD BE WORSE
FOURTH AND INCHES 
WHATELY 

4th and Inches Tom Keeley 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 Kind of cavity 67 Fill completely 1 Hockey disk 34 Desperate, as 68 At the summit of 5 Stately trees an effort 69 Uncompromising 
9 Cousin of the 70 Stepped (on) 
39 Up there in raccoon 
years 

71 Jay of "The 
14 Symbol on the 40 Vengeful feeling 
Tonight Show" Hollywood Walk 41 Electronics giant 
of Fame 42 Dark spot in 
DOWN
15 Cat's hello outer space 
1 "Hey ... over
16 Milk dispenser 45 Borrow, slangily 
here!" 
17 Indian dress 47 Dessert from an 
2 Great Salt lake 
18 Island east of oven 
locale 
Java 48 Island in the 
3 Give a dam
West Indies 

19 Paris divider 
4Hare_
50 Crooner Frank 

20 1948 Olivia de 
(religious sect) 
Havilland drama 54 Whimsical 
5 Preserve for 
23 Ages and ages 55 Suffix with sulf­
burial 
24 Computer in 56 Possible title for 
6 Pipe problem 
"2001" this puzzle 
7 Double agent 
2S Start ol a 62 Circumference 8 Put through a
correction 64 Seizes 
machine, as a
27 Actor's stand-in 65 a one 
credit card 
32 40 days and 40 66 Astronomical 
9 Puddinglike
nights boat flareups 
dessert 10 •_to Billie ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE Joe" U R E O C L A N 11 French farewell Puzzle by Heney !<av-ugh 
L,,-i..,,.......+...+,..+,;,...;.S..,_H;,,;..,_.O~E H A L E 12 Male caroler, 36 What horses 49 Hunted rodents 58 With 38-Down,
.., maybe 
with sulkies do 50 Yield and No Nobel-winning
13 Actress Pappas 
37 Old-fashioned Parking German chemist A N 21 Part of N.R.A.: 
301 51 Pinhead 59 Fence opening 
Abbr. 
38 See 58-Down 52 Chutzpah 60 Part of steel
22 Furious 
40 He-Man's twin 53 Anxious feeling 61 Printing goof 
26 Hit the slopes 
sister, in TV 57 Two semesters 
63 Driveway stuff

27 Haughty one cartoons 28 like a six-footer 43 Tax pro, for short -=+~R:,-1 29 Initials in food 44 Where meals Answers to any three clues in this puzzle C certification are made are available by touch-tone phone: .,,....,.........,A.... 30 Brand for Rover 45 Sober-motorists 1-900-420-5656 (95~ per minute). -,.+.,..,+,.,+,..+,,,+-,+,,,+,-,,+-,-+-o,,,.. 31 Polish sites org. Annual subscriptions are available for the -=+,,,+,E:,-1 35 Proofreading 46 First, second, or best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 S mark third, e.g. years: 1-888-7-ACAOSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
---------~------------~----------------~-------------------------~~~~----­
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday. The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name _____________________ Address ___________________ City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): THIS DAY: Tom Selleck, Ann Jil­It's a good time to make career lian, Katharine Ross, Germaine changes. Interviews will go very Greer, Oprah Winfrey, Greg well. Your warmth and genuine Louganis, Heather Graham, character will win you points. Edward Bums You can -use your unusual ideas 
Happy Birthday: This is not to show your versatility. 000 be the year to sit back and watch LIBRA (Sept 23-Oct. 22): You others excel. To get ahead will will do well in speculative money take effort, but doing nothing will matters. Spend some time with lead to future uncertainties. Stop children and don't forget to keep living in the past and start thinl<­in shape. You have the energy to ing about wliere you are headed. ~ea wide variety of activities. Don't miss out because you are not willing to push a little harder. SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your numbers: 3, 17, 19, 22, 41, 46 Avoid romantic interaction with 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): colleagues. Redecorating will cost Ask for favors, as long as you more than you want to spend. don't require help with legal mat­Emotional uncertainties will ters. Take time to connect with make communication with your people who will appreciate your spouse difficult. 000 talents. Look into making some SAGfITARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 
extra cash. Flirting wilf upset 21): Projects that involve telemar­your mate. 000 keting or mail order should be of 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): interest to you. Look into the pos­Your lover will cost you financial­sibilities of starting your own ly if you allow it. You will have to small business. A relative may learn to say no if you don't want back your idea. 00000 to end up broke and alone. You CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. are losing respect by giving in all 19): Don't let older relatives or the time. 000 siblings put demands on you. Do 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): what you can, but don't feel You just can't keep your mind on guilty if you can't do it all. Your your work. You should be looking need to collect things will cause into foreign cultures or philo­grief. 00 sophies tliat can broaden your AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): horizons about life, love and Romantic encounters will devel­happiness. 0000 op through social events or fit­
CANCER (June 21-July 22): ness programs. You will be able You can expect to have problems to make profits through invest­with your lover. Do not allow ments. Popularity will be yours if yourself to be taken advantage of you move into the limelight. when you are confused about 0000 the relationship. Ask point-blank PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): where you stand. 00 Your anger may lead you in the 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): wrong direction. Don't jump to Romantic opportunities will be conclusions. Think twice before plentiful. However, you must be you retaliate. You are not likely to . careful you don't pick someone get along with co-workers or who is more interested in what you impress your boss today. 000 have than in who you are. 0000 
Birthday Baby: You can be pretty laid-back and easygoing most of the time. You have the ability to see things quite clearly because you take the time to wager the pros and cons. You are a thoughtful and careful indi·tidual. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 0 2001 Universal Press Syndka~ 
MY No\/EL.  You WROTE  I D1[),  
WANT To  'YOIJR NOVEL IN  FOR A  
WHAT'S  REA.D 1T?  A WEEKEND?!  WHILE.  
T~IS?  I THOUGHT YoU  I  
HAD WRITER'S  
BLOCK!  
I  
.. 1/.  

8UT AS SOON AS I SETTLED ON THE MAIN CHARACTER, IT WAS 
A.S IF A SPIGOT J'UST oPENED " " 
'­
BILL AMEND 
But "l)a.n1er" it :my won't. the mW.Ue n&lll&. That tniHion be all<l "ltand.iome." 
, dan,e:rous, Itnd. "Brilliant.· ' ent l'ox? And. "Very Suave." 
ni' 


-

SMC Sinks 
Following a home loss to Albion on Saturday, the Saint Mary's basketball team drops to last place in the MIM.
PORTS 
page 15 
O
THE 

page 20 BSERVER 
Monday,January 29, 2001 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Comeback in Georgetown 
,,,

. 
Swanagan, ' ' 

. 
Ingelsby shotHumphrey lead •::; ~· i foils Georgetown 


, ; ,~ ....,..,,-::
late-game surge 

', "'\; ~ '-defensive strategy 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN WASIIINGTON A,,;ocjare·Sports Ediror lie jumped up and down, hurling orders onto the court, He threw his hands over his
WASHINGTON 

head, waving then frantically 
The Irish men's basketball 
from side 
team accomplished a gro­
to side.
cery list of firsts Saturday in 
George­
its 78-71 road win over the 
town head
No. 10 
coach
George-See Also 
Craig
t o w n 

"Georgetown win Esherick
Hoy as 
did every­
(17-2, 4-exemplifies strong 
thing he 
2 Big 

supporting cast" could to
East). 
get his 

N o tr e page 18 Kerry Smith
Hoya
Dame 
defense to
(13-5, 5-2) won its fourth 
tighten the 
consecutive Big East game 

reigns on Sports Editor 
for the first time since join­
Notre
ing the league in 1995-96. 
Dame's
The Irish cruised to three 
three-point
games above .500 in league 

duo, David Graves and Matt
play for a new pinnacle. 
Carroll.
Irish coach Mike Brey's 
With just six minutes 
squad beat two Top 10 

remaining and the Irish down 
teams in a row for the first 

59-56, Esherick expected a
time in school history 

deep perimeter shot from the
(Syracuse ranked ninth in 

wing as point guard Martin
last week's ESPN/USA 

lrigelsby snapped passes back
Today poll, while 

and forth between Caroll and
Georgetown was 10th in the 
Graves.
Associated Press rankings). 

But no shot came frnm either
The blue and gold 

three-point hit man. Instead, it 
knocked off their Catholic 
was the unlikely shooter 
school rivals in the most 

lngelsby who fired off the ball
unexpected of fashions. In a 
to tie the score.

JOSE CUELLAR/The Observer 
tied-up tussle for the lead in 

Esherick could only shake his 
Forward Ryan Humphrey scored a team-high 17 points to go along with 10 rebounds in Notre 
see BASKETBALUpage 12 

Dame's win over No. 10 Georgetown on Saturday. 
see ESHERICK/pagel4 

SUPER BOWL XXXV 

Lewis, Ravens back up trash talk, top Giants 34-7 
Associated Press 

TAMPA. Fla. Baltimore's brazen defense backed up its bragging. After boasting all week that the Giants couldn't move on 
their league-leading unit, Ray Lewis and the Ravens did what they said they would. beating New York 34-7 for their first Super Bowl vic­tory. 
Despite the score, 


Sunday's game was Lewis as advertised -a battle of defenses until New York's wilt­ed late in the game. 
Led by Lewis, the MVP, the Ravens intercepted Kerry Collins four times, the final pick returned 49 yards for a touch­down by Duane Starks, the first of three TDs on three plays late in the third quar­ter. The other two were kickoff returns for scores by Ron Dixon of New York and Jermaine Lewis of Baltimore, the first time that's ever happened in a Super Bowl. 
"If you put this in a storybook, nobody would believe it," said Ray Lewis, who was arrested Jast year on murder charges in the stabbing deaths of two men at a Super Bowl party in Atlanta. He subsequently pleaded guilty to a misde­meanor charge of obstructing justice. 
"We didn't just break records, we shat­tered them," Lewis said. "We dominated .literally. This is what you work your whole life for. You come from childhood, dreaming whatever you want it to be, but now, at 25, to be a world champion, what else can I dream of?" 
The Ravens held the Giants to just 149 yards total offense in giving Art Modell his first Super Bowl win in 40 years as an owner. He won one NFL title in 35 seasons in Cleveland before inoving his franchise to Baltimore in 1996, but he had never been to a Super Bowl, losing two close AFC title games in Cleveland. 
The 75-year-old Modell won by beating his good friend Wellington Mara of the Giants, who has 75 seasons in the NFL. 
"To the people of Baltimore, to the people of Maryland. This is for you," said Model!. who stood on the podium hug­ging son David as he received the Vince Lombardi Trophy from commissioner Paul Tagliabue. 
So effective was Baltimore's defense that. the New York offense never got inside its 29. The game might as well have been stopped after Trent Dilfer's 38-yard touchdown pass to Brandon Stokley with 6:50 left in the lirst quarter gave the Ravens a 7-0 lead. It stayed that way for most of the first half. 
Before the game, Dilfer said all he wanted to be was the quarterback of a team that won a Super Bowl despite its quarterback. He is after completing 12 of 25 passes for 153 yards, in his rnturn to Tampa Bay, where he was released by the Buccaneers aft.er last season. 
"I didn't throw the ball very well," Dilfer said. "But we b\lked about making 
see RAVENS/page 16 
National Rolex Singles 
at. Ohio State vs. Providence 
and Doubles Indoor 
Friday, 7:35 p.m. 

Wednesday, 7 p.m. .~~
SPORTS • 
@ Championships Thursday-Sunday at Pittsburgh
ATA 
Track and Field Saturday, 7 p.m. 
• Men's Swimming 

at Alma Meyo ·invitational Wednesday, 7:30 p.m. vs. Cleveland Srare Loftus Fieldhouse 
GLANCE •
Friday, 2 p.m. 
Friday-Saturday 



