
Amove toward restructuring
PARTLY 


Thursday
CLOUDY 
The Faculty Senate passed a resolution Wednesday that could be its first step toward changing its role in campus governance. 
OCTOBER 11, HIGH 61° 
News . page 3 
2001 
LOW 44° 
----------j
•
• 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL. XXXV NO. 33 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Rego criticizes assault claim 
Notre Dame and they assisted cism on how l':otre Dame han­Ile did not have witnesses to It states: "A charged student By l\1YRA l\kGRIFF 
him to transfer to West dled Hego's dismissal in 1998. collaborate his side of events. may be assisted, but not rep­Saint l\larv·s Ediror 
Virginia ... they talked to cer­He said that Rego could not (Jrnrges were never.filed resented, by a peer student at taiu people at West Virginia h a v e against the Administrative Hearing." Coopnr Rego issund ra state­about the accusations," said rcr.eived a Hego _in Whether or not Rego had a mrnt \\'Nlrwsday d(•nying that Ginsberg. fair hearing any crim­peer advisor is still unclear,
"The decision was made that
11 P s" x u a 11 y ass a u Ited Ko r i Denny Moorn, spokesperson when he i n a I but Ginsberg does say that
he should trans.fer from Notre
Pfrnovi in :1 <)97 and said tw for I\Jntre Dame, said that peo­was dis-r.ourt. He Hego had discussions with ucn,plPd his punishment rrom ple at Notre Dame did write missed. Dame and they assisted him l fl I' t people in relation to the hear­;\lotn· Danw only lwnrnse "life letters !"or HPgo to WPst "Cooper school ing. Also unclea,· is ·if those
to transfer to West 
was !Do short to spP!HI time Virginia. The letters wnr1! not went in following discussions occurred during fighting.•· written in any of'11cial capaci­wilhout Virginia... ··· the d isci­the Administrative Hearing or "{PPinovi's I accusat1ons art> ty. lie said one person even representa­p l in a r y outside it. not tn1P," RPgo said. told West Virginia to contact tion to a decisions Both Rego and Ginsberg also
Peter Ginsberg
:\l'tPr l{Pgo acc:Ppt('(l his dis­Student Affairs. hearing of an said that Pienovi 's accusations
advisor to Rego's father
m issaI from NotrP Dame. "Two people on campus with non internal may have been racially moti­Pntnr Ginsl)('rg, an attorney wrote letters to West Virginia judicial hearing vated. sPrving as an advisor lo giving their impression of people who at Notre "I was a young, black fresh­RPgo's falhPr. said Notre him. They were people who have no understanding of due Dame. The disciplinary proce­man four years ago, accused D a m £' ass is t !! d H <'go i n h i s have no knowledge of process rights," Ginsberg said. dures as outlined in du Lac of a horrible act by a white transl'n to WPst Virginia. University disciplinary pro­Ginsberg explained that list the accused and the woman," Rego said in hi-s 
"ThP d1-!cision was made ceedings." Moore said. Rego did not have "factual accuser's rights in an that lw should transfer from Ginsberg also leveled criti-information" at the hearing. Administrative Hearing. see REGO/page 6 
BONO ELEVATES NOTRE DAME 

U2's Bono shakes hands with some of his fans at the Joyce Center last night. U2 kicked off the third leg of their Elevation tour at Notre Dame. For a complete review see page 20. 






Media 
1 

follows 
j 
I

patriotic spirit 
By MARIBEL MOREY Assistant News Editor 
The American media has shared 
the country's patriotic 'sentiments 
as it follows the country's steps 
towards a war. But these media 
outlets have spent little time on 
whether or not the country is tak­
ing the right course ol' action. 
"You haven't seen a lot of diver­
sity in perspective from main­
stream corporate media outlets.· 
said Jennifer Pozner, women's 
desk director at FAIR who has 
focused on anti-Arab bias cover­
age and censorship in the press. 
"In general, the overview has 
seemed in loc:kstep with the White 
!louse and what that line has 
been. You haven't seen a lot of 
variation.' 
In an act deemed patriotic by 
Condoleezza Rice, WhiU\ House 
national security advisor, tlrn five 
major television news organiza­
tions reached a joint agreement on 
Wednesday to abridge any future 
vidrwtaped statt1ments from Osama 
bin Laden or his followers if the 
government deems the language 
inflammatory. 
These networks include ABC 
News, CBS News, NBC Nows, MSNBC, the Cable News Network (CNN) and the Fox Nrws Channel. 
Local and national newspapers and TV media havr' not been very 
see MEDIA/page 4 

I 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Practice acceptance on Coming Out Day 
Teetering back and forth on the metal­chained swings at our grade school play­ground, swinging fast and furiously above the stable ground below us, my best friend turned to me and told me he was gay. 
I was 15 years old. And with that confession, my world became fundamen­tally changed. Swinging there, on the site that embodied my childhood, I suddenly became an adult, dealing with an issue that was so much bigger than I could ever be. 
It still is an issue that is bigger than many of us. Growing up in the cradle of the Catholic Church, many of us have devel­oped attitudes about homosexuality that do not accept the lifestyle. We may have learned homosexual acts arc a sin; we may have learned the lifestyle is immoral. 
And if we did not develop those attitudes from the Church, society didn't help. We grew up as little girls and boys dreaming of Prince Charming or Cinderella, a heterosexu­al ideal. We grew up watching our moms and dads hold hands in public, but never observed affection between homosexual cou­ples. We grew up thinking that heterosexual­ity was the norm, and anything that fell out-­side of it was wrong. 
So when we are asked to confront the issue, it's uncomfortable. It was for me. After all, it goes against the very moral core by which we were raised. 
Today, National Coming Out Day, a day in support of lesbians, gays and bisexuals, will be celebrated nationwide. Last year on this very day, students at Saint Mary's wrote chalk messages on sidewalks to raise stu­dents' awareness about the day. But by the end of the day they were erased, vibrant messages snuffed into clouds of muddled sidewalk chalk. 
I hope that today, on the day designed to promote tolerance, that messages are not erased. I hope that today, people are not erased. I hope that today, people have the courage to confront what may be uncomfort­able, and begin to understand. 
That's what I did. At that moment where I stood on my childhood playground, I took my friend in my arms, and told him I'd be there for him. That I would understand. 
And to this day, I have. 

i ' I I 
! 
I The views expressed in the Inside Column r 
are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Noreen Gillespie at gill0843@saintmarys.edu I ' 


( ' CORRECTIONS /CLARIFICATIONS 
I 
I I 
The Observer regard. itselfa.s a professional publication and strives for the highcsr standards ofjournalism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us ac 631-4541 so we can corre<:t our error. 


The Observer (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is J. member of cht: As>ociated Pres,. All reproduaion ,ighu are reserved. 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, October 11, 2001 
Compiled from U-Wire reports


BEYOND CAMPUS 

Michigan study shows Americans feel less safe 



THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Thursday Friday 

. 
Religious service: "Blue . Athletic event: "Midnight Mass," presided by Father Madness," Joyce Center, Edward Malloy, Basilica of 11 p.m. the Sacred Heart, 5:15 p.m. . Dinner: ''Late Night 

. 
Dinner: "Founder's Day Barbecue," Fieldhouse Dinner," North Dining Mall, 1-3 a.m. Hall, 4:30-7 p.m., South 4:30-9 p.m. 



ANN ARBOR, Mich. 
Nearly half of all Americans feel more insecure and unsafe after last month's attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon and the country's declaration of war on terrorism, according to a University of Michigan survey released Tuesday. 
Results from "How America Responds," a study conducted by the University's Institute for Social Research, show that 51 percent of Americans said their sense of per­sonal safety was shaken only a little or not at all following the attacks. 
The 49 percent of Americans who said they felt their personal safety had been threatened were also more pessimistic about the future economy, the study discovered, and 


NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY 

Administration responds to lawsuit 
EVANSTON, Ill. 
Lawyers for Northwestern University responded Tuesday to the lawsuit filed in August by the family of Rashidi Wheeler, stating that the football player's Aug. 3 death was not caused by bronchial asthma. At the same time, University President Henry Bienen released a statement suggesting that NCAA-banned supplements might have played a greater role in Wheeler's death than the medical examiner's report indicated. 
The suit, filed Aug. 23 in Cook County Circuit Court, names seven employees and interns of Northwestern's athletic department, including Director of Athletics Rick Taylor and head football coach Randy Walker. 
The university's response firmly defended the staff, which Bienen said behaved "appropriately, indeed valiantly," and denied all allegations of negligence. 
Bienen's statement, which came after two months of hushed internal investigation, admitted that NU violated a minor NCAA regulation by reporting the results of summer conditioning tests to coaches. 

LOCAL WEATHER 

5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWealher" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

Saturday 
. Lecture Series: 
'Tm spiritual but not Religious." Saturday Scholars Series, Hesburgh Center Auditorium, 10 a.m. 
have less favorable buying atti­tudes. However, overall, almost half of Americans said that now is a good time to invest in the stock market, and only 9 percent said it would be a good idea to withdraw investments. 
Communications Prof. Michael 
Sunday 
. Lecture: Address by Justice Antonin Scalia of the Supreme Court, Law School Courtroom, 
5:15 p.m. 
Traugott, an expert on polling, said the split divisions between how people are feeling about the attacks should be expected. 
"There are a lot of factors that go into this, one of which has to be proximity and place of reference," Traugott said. "I believe that there is both a generalized concern and a situational concern." 
The survey showed that one cause of concern is the unemploy­ment rate; the 668 people surveyed predicted the rate would rise to about 6 percent in the next year. 
University economist Richard Curtin, who directs ISR's consumer surveys, said consumers are usual­ly accurate when predicting future unemployment rates. 


w, .Asaociatad p,.55 
Atlanta 73 57 Las Vegas 81 57 Por11and 58 50 
Baltimore 73 52 Memphis 71 56 Sacramento 75 51 
Baston 70 55 Milwaukee 62 47 St. Louis 67 51

q_~,~s8€Q ~ ~ u 

Chicago 63 48 New York 71 54 Tampa 86 68 
Showers T-slorms Ra;n Flurrias Snow lea Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 

Houston 78 68 Philadelphia 74 54 Washington DC 74 56 
Via Associated Press GtaphicsNet 



UC-BERKELEY 
Student gov't. debates censuring press 
BERKELEY, Calif. 

The ASUC Senate considered a bill Wednesday night that would condemn The Daily Californian for printing a political cartoon and ask that its staff take sensitivity training. 
Meanwhile, other senators introduced a new bill defending free speech for campus publications, written originally in opposition to the condemnation proposal. 
The senate's University and External Affairs Committee late Monday night dropped a controversial portion of the condemnation bill, killing a recommendation to raise the rent of the independent student newspaper because of the controversial cartoon. The Daily Cal leases its offices on the sixth floor of Eshleman Hall from ASUC. 
Some senators said the authors cut that part of the bill under criticism from student groups and senate oppo­nents. 
The amended bill; SB 67A, proposes that all elected ASUC officials sign a letter calling for a printed apology on the front page of the Daily Cal. 

NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather<!' forecast for noon, Thursday, Oct. 11. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
WARM .............
STA TTONARY

O 2001 AccuW¦¦ther: Inc. 

@'"'"'<0 CJ . ~ CJ w w 
H'gh Low Sbow-•r• R ¦ ln T-¦torm¦ Flurrie¦ Snow lo ¦ Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 

Thursday, Ocrober 11, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
FACU..., SENATE 


\.:iroup passes joint committee resolution 
asked for a mandate from formal Academic Council ses­chair Jean Porter introduced a eally smart," Brogan said By JASON McFARLEY ProYost Nathan Hatch to create sions. resolution calling for the group Wednesday. "My feeling is that News Editor the joint committee. "(We] will actively pursue to disband. it would be stupid to say wo 
The adopted rrsolution essen­your collectiVP desires and deci­Citing waning support from want to play political power 
Tlw Faculty Senate appruvP-d tially begins talks between the sions," she said of senators who colleagues and a lack of respect games." Wr~drrnsday a rnsolution to senate and Academic Council would repn~scnt thfl group on from administrators, senators 1!xplore tlw ·possibility of creat­about a restructuring plan that the joint committoo. on May 2 passed the proposal 
In other senate news: 
ing a joinl committee with the would bring unprecodented But creating that committee that struck Section 3 of Article 
. Members unanimously voted Academic Council to discuss the changes to both bodiPs. -and even reconfiguring the IV of the University's Academic to drop the "acting" titles from 
rol(• of' faculty governance at Drafted by a senate ad hoc senate -wouldn't address Articles. The measure had the the four sP-nate leaders' posi­
tlw UnivPrsity. committee last summer. the deeper concerns that have effect of dissolving the senate. 
tiu ns; Brogan, chair; David 
!-'or a body that long has plan would cut the senateOs plagued the l'mbattled group, Following the ,·ote at the last 
Klein, vice chair; John 
struggled with pereeptions by membership by nearly a third, according to sonrn senators. senate meeting of the 2000­
Robinson, co-secretary; and 
adminislrators and faculty that from 53 voting mmnbers to 37. At issues, according to 2001 academic year, 2001­Stephen llayes, treasurer. The 
tlw group was ineffective and It also would raiso Academic Richard Sheehan, was the fac­2002 members revoked the res­
senatr~ elected Kathleen 
powPrll'ss. the measure was Council membership from 40 to ulty's -in particular the olution. 
Peterson its other co-secretary.
sn(•mingly a cautious first step 44. the additional r<•prt>s1mta­Faculty Senato's -role in cam­Both votes essentially meant 
. Brogan announced that 
to n•structure its(•lf. tivos coming from the senate. pus governance. little. 
University President Father 
St>nators passed tlrn rnsolu­"This was pretty well "The fundamental question is The senate lacks official 
Euward Malloy would address 
ti11n I:i-<t. ,'\s written, it pruvid­thought-out. but it's not tho Pnd why aren't faculty members power to dissolve itself. 
the spnate at its Nov. 7 meeting
('d that senatP Pxcrutive com­of ideas by any means," senate willing to serve on the senate University policy dictates that at 7 p.m. in the McKenna Hall 
rnittPP nwmbnrs would discuss chair Jacqueline Brogan said and on boards across the the senate may only recom­
auditorium. 
with Academic Council officials Wednesday. University," he said. "\,Ve need mend changes to the Academic 
. The group elected Marsha 
tlw fpasibility of a forming a Hatch and Uninrsity to hav1! discussions with admin­Articles. Changes to the Articles 
Stevenson as the senate's rep-
joint rommitteP b(·tween the President Fath<'r Edward istrators about the role of facul­require approval by the 
, resentative to the Campus Life 
two organizations. Malloy were willing to form a ty governance here." Academic Council. University Council. 
DissPnting votPrs f'a\'ored a joint committee and to consider For nearly a half-year, the president and Board ol' boldl'r rr•soJution that would tht> proposed rnstrucluring. senatP has publicly debated its Trustees. 
Contact Jason McFarley at
havP skippPd disrnssion with according to Brogan, who has function at the University. "Some people thought that 
mcfarley. I@nd.edu
tlw AradPmir Council and mN with tlrn administrators in At an April 3 meeting. then-the threat to dissolve was politi-
Student government gears up for Founder's Day 
Last vcar's carnival will bo white tablecloths and candles. arranged by NDFS. and Lasseter d iscovPred a By ANDREW THAGARD rcplac;d with a more formal Thursday's dinner will "The dining hall did a groat Founder's Day tradition of News Writer dinner in both dining halls. res<'mbl<' the candlelight din­job," Norton said. "They've having a special dinner dating 
Student government has ners sponsored by NDFS after helped us a lot with planning back to the 1960's. Stuclnnts will notice a teamed up with Notre Dame football games, but it will also the menu. They really wanted "We're trying to rekindle rhangP in this year for Food Service and they'rn trad­include some historical ele­to do something for the stu­that tradition," Gidfll said. dents." "We wanted to focus more on
Foun dcr's l)ay festivities ing last year's amuseme11t ments. 
"Founder's Day really came "They [NDFS] were so excit­a formal thing were everyone
today. park-style rides and picnic for about to celebrate the history ed," echoed Mariah Gid~ll, is encouraged to go and of this University,'' said who along with Alison everyone wants to go." Hrooke Norton, student body Lasseter helped plan the Student-Government opted president. "We wanted to cel­event. "All the credit should for the dinner over the carni­ebrate lhat with something go to them. They were so val this year because they felt special for the students. So enthusiastic." it better reflected the histori­
(and stuff your face) 
many things have changed at In addition to traditional­cal significance of the day and Notre Dame but we're still a style foods, historical pho­wasn't put at risk by bad family that's what tographs will be on display in weather -the fate of last DAILYSPECIALS Founder's Day is meant to cel­both dining halls. The Swing year's events. Rated #1 Hot Wings '}\\ ebrate." Club will perform in South " We decided to do some­The dinner will take place at Dining Hall from 6:30 p.m. to thing simpler this year that
in the area 
both dining halls during their 7:30 p.m. and DJs will play would bring the campus com­
regular hours. The menu will "oldies" music, including munity together," Norton said. Thursday: include more traditional dish­Frank Sinatra. Student "We thought about having es including ham, steak, apple Government is encouraging events but weather is always 
$200 Margaritas crisps and pumpkin pie. The students to dress up too. hard to predict." menu and funding were Student government began 

Karaoke 9pm -1am 
1803 SOUTH BEND AVENUE -SOUTH BEND, IN -­Next to Studebagcls. Family Dining Available ~ 1 
247-9293 , ­
Mu~t lw 2 lwith valid IO to consume alcohol s , o r , • 
D  STINGUISH&D  
L  E  C  T  u  R  E  
s  E  R  E  s  

Celeste Volz Ford 
Founder and CEO of Stellar Solutions, Inc. 
-1 planning Founder's Day activ­ities over the summer, 
Contact Andrw Thagard at
according to Norton. While
Molti Bene 

thrgard@nd.edu.
brainstorming for ideas, Gide! 
Catalino's T rattoria Downtown South Bend 

Engineer to Entrepreneur ... It Isn't All Rocket Science 
Friday, October 12 -12:50 to 1 :40 p.m. DeBartolo Auditorium, Room 101 
.---------------­
page 4 The Ob.erver . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 11, 2001 


Writer promotes hidden books 
By SARAH NESTER 
News Writer 
Wednesday afternoon stu­dents and faculty gathered in Stapleton Lounge for the brown bag discussion "Beyond Borders; Emerging Latino Literature," led by Richard Yanez. 
Richard Yanez is the Saint Mary's English department writer in residence and he is also on staff at the Center for Women's InterCultural Learning. La Fuerza, the Hispanic student organiza• tion, asked Yanez to speak as a part of National Hispanic Heritage Month. Yanez agreed and chose the theme of Latino literature. 
Yanez began by explaining that even though he is a writer he is first and foremost "someone who loves reading books." 
Yanez spoke about the importance of going to book­stores, independent book­stores preferably, and looking beyond the typical displays and delving the shelves. 
Yanez also spoke of what he calls 'bookstore espionage'. which he describes as moving books hidden in the shelves into more prominent places. 
"Even though I'm a writer, I'm really a proponent for other writers," Yanez said. 
Yanez spoke about how he came to be a writer, as an undergraduate student at the University of California­Berkley, when his grand­mother became ill and he was able to translate his feelings into writing through short fic­tion stories about a boy and his relationship with his grandparenis. From there Yanez realized his calling and eventually published his first collection entitled "Holy Water." 
"You do not have to have a fancy book cover and be pub­lished by a big company to be a writer. Just putting things on paper makes you a writer," Yanez said. 
Yanez also recommended some Latino, and emerging Latino, authors. Among his list of emerging Hispanic lit­eratures were Denise Chavez, "Loving Pedro Infante;" Dagoberto Gilb, "Woodcuts of Women;" and Jose Skinner, "Flight and Other Stories." 
"I do have the power to pick books for courses and that is a powerful thing," Yanez said. 
Yanez spoke of the impor­tance of challenging our­selves, to go beyond our realm, of knowledge and experience to try what is new and unfamiliar, going beyond borders. 
Contact Sarah Nester at nest9575@saintmarys.edu 


Artist discusses latest project 
By JILL MI\XBAUER 
New Writer 
Artist Pamela Paulsrud is visiting Saint Mary's to discuss her latest projects and to assist students in creative papermaking. 
Paulsrud received her master's degree in May of 2000 from Columbia College in Chicago. She studied Interdisciplinary Arts wi.th a focus on book and papermaking. "I would call myself an inter­disciplinary artists. I like to use techniques and art forms that rep­and began making large, sometimes 8 feet by 4 feet, homemade paper sheets and would use pigment to create a single abstract mark. 
"My mark-making began as an abstraction of hand­writing, intuitive move­ments with particular attention to rhythm and mood referencing response to my environment...! felt myself being drawn to nature...the lines, the sto­ries, the visual language. Surface gave way to being ... I saw before me that meaning embodied in the 
'mark."' 
She hopes 

resent  "My mark making began  that  her  
the  con­ as an abstraction of  mark state­ 
cept and t h e  handwriting  "  ment cause  will peo­ 
process  ple to think  
that  I  Pamela Paulsrud  about art in  
would  artist  terms  of  

like to articu­1 a t e " Paulsrud said. 
At the moment, Paulsrud has an exhibit entitled No Boundaries, where she gains her inspiration from her love of handwriting. She is a celebrated callig­raphy writer as well, and out of her studies of hand­writing, "abstract mark­making followed," she said. 
She studied the different lines handwriting created 
their  own  
lives.  "I  
would  like  

my work to deal with the quality if resonance-people bring their stories to my work and take something back with them." 
Paulsrud's other project is called Tree Whispers. She and fellow artist Marilyn Sward have creat­ed a collaborative art instillation that explores trees and their relation­ship·with humans. 
"What I wanted to do in 

this is bring together the stories people have about trees and create an artistic representation of these stories," Paulsrud said. 
This project relies on outside people to create circles of homemade paper and place a poem, story, or a symbolic representa­tion and send them to Pamela or Marilyn, who in turn are creating an artis­tic "forest" out of them. 
"Tree Whispers includes 3 year olds, the elderly, professional and novice artists alike coming together," she said. So far Pausrud has representa­tions from a dozen coun­tries and ten foreign lan­guages. Her hope is that that the exhibit will travel around the world. 
More information can be foundat www.treewhis­pers.com, a site that allows people to write their stories, find out how to make paper and read about the progression of the exhibit. Tree Whispers and No Boundaries are currently on display at the Columbian College Center for Book and Paper, locat­ed on 1104 South Wabash Street, Second Floor, in Chicago. 
ContactJill Maxbauer at maxb 0487@saintmarys.edu. 




Observer 35th anniversary reunion 
Saturday, April 20, 2002 South Bend Marriott e-mail obsreunion@hotmail.com for more details 

ATION 
Thursday, October 11, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVEU WIRE SERVICE;S page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
·Russian troops reinforce border: Russia sent troops to reinforce its border with a breakaway Georgian region on Wednesday, fearing a new front in its war against Chechen rebels. Officials of the breakaway region, Abkhazia, claimed, meanwhile, that their forces had surrounded 200 guerrillas, including ethnic Georgian fighters and rebels from Chechnya. 
French journalist arrested: A French journalist was arrested in Afghanistan and was under investigation for espionage charges after France admitted sending intelli­gence agents to that country, the Taliban said Wednesday. Taliban intelligence agents arrested Michel Peyrard, a reporter for the French weekly Paris Match, on Tuesday, 20 miles outside of Jalalabad. 

NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Nine die in Alaska plane crash: A commuter plane with 10 people aboard crashed in the tundra shortly after takeoff Wednesday, killing nine people and critically injuring one, state police said. The plane, a single-engine Cessna 208 Caravan operated by PenAir, Alaska's biggest commuter airline, went down in calm, clear weather about two miles from the end of the runway, authorities said. The crew had given no indication that the plane was in trouble. 
U.S. life expectancy reaches high: 
Life expectanc-y in the United States has climbed to an all-time high of nearly 77 years, while infant mortality has dropped to the low­est level on record, the government reported Wednesday. The gender gap for life expectan­cy also narrowed, but women continue to live considerably longer than men -79.5 years versus 74.1. 

INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Burniag tractor-trailer ties upinterstate: A burning tractor-trailer carry­ing U.S. Mail on Interstate 70 in eastern Indiana tied up traffic early Wednesday morning. There were no injuries, but the truck was destroyed. Traffic was rerouted on 
U.S. 38. Wayne County sheritrs deputies were investigating the incident, which began at 3 
a.m. Richmond Postmaster Jay Kitchel said postal inspectors will go through what's left of the truck's cargo. He said they'll repackage what they can identify and forward it with a letter of explanation to recipients. -, 
Market Watch October IO 
Dow 9,2460 +188.42 Jones 

Composite 
~
Same:193 .·•···.·o••··•··.···~~~~..w·.· ..· Volume:
..•••·•·····•n·.···· 
NIA 
;~/ 
AMEX: 834.22 -0.11 NASDAQ: 1,626.26 +56.07 NYSE: 559.87 +11.24 S&P 500: 1,080.99 +24.24 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
GLOBAL CROSSING (GX) +53.15 +0.24 0.52 NASDAQ-100 INDEX (QQQ) +4.54 +l.41 32.5 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +3.84 +0.5615.15 INTEL CORP (INTC) +7.51 +1.6123.05 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) +0.22 +0.02 9.09 
INDONESIA 

AFP PHOTO Indonesian Muslim students shout anti-U.S. slogans as they march through to the U.S. embassy in Jakarta as they protest against the U.S.-led military strikes on Alghanistan. ­
Students protest U.S. air strikes 
headscarves clutched pic­build a strong democracy. About 100 police controlled
Associated Press 
tures of terrorist suspect "Let's not become a small, peaceful protest 
JAKARTA Osama bin Laden. trapped by taking emotion­outside the British 
Police fired tear gas to "Allah loves holy war­al steps such as cutting Embassy, which is located stop about 1,000 Islamic riors!" the crowd chanted. international ties," he said. on Jakarta's main traffic students storming the Earlier, several groups In at least five other circle. grounds of Indonesia's staged noisy demonstra­Indonesian cities, protest­About 85 percent of Parliament during a tions outside the United ers burned tires, U.S. flags Indonesia's 210 million protest Wednesday against Nations building and the and effigies of President people are Muslim. Some U.S.-led strikes in heavily guarded U.S. Bush. fringe Islamic groups have Afghanistan, witnesses Embassy, demanding On Tuesday. police used threatened to round up said. Indonesia suspend diplo­tear gas, war11ing shots Americans and other 
It was the third consecu­matic relations with and water cannons to dis­Westerners, and have tive day of anti-U.S. Washington. Police beat perse protesters after they demanded that Indonesia demonstrations in the some outside the embassy, tried to pull down a barrier oppose U.S. military action world's most populous injuring four students. of razor wire protecting in Afghanistan, where the Muslim nation. Witnesses Security Minister Susilo the U.S. embassy. ruling Taliban militia has said the protesters tried to Bambang Yudhoyono The embassy remained refused to hand over bin break through police lines warned that anti-U.S. closed Wednesday even Laden. and push down the legisla­protests could damage after Indonesian security Some U.S. embassy staff ture's main gate. attempts to fix Indonesia's forces moved in two addi­have left the country volun­
Women wearing Islamic debt-ridden economy and tional water cannons. tarily. 
House leaders sketch economic plan 
who spoke on condition of anonymi­President Bush and would likely be
Associated Press 
ty. Those who received rebates dominated by a blend of temporary 
WASHINGTON already this year would receive new and permanent tax cuts, rather than 
House Republican leaders on checks for half the amount of their the spending programs many Wednesday began sketching out an previous ones. Democrats want. economic plan heavy on growth­Another senior administration "We must have a singular agenda stimulating ideas such as a reduc­official, also speaking on condition as we develop this bill, and it's eco­tion in capital gains taxes. The of anonymity, said the White House nomic growth," Armey said. "We White House focused on a new was also considering a flat rebate will not be able to do everything." round of tax rebates, an idea amount for both those who didn't Armey and Rep. Rob Portman, a backed by many Democrats. qualify last time and everyone who key Bush ally on Capitol Hill, said 
Under a two-pronged plan floated received a check this year. the emerging package could include by the White House, taxpayers who In the House, Majority Leader a cut in the 20 percent long-term did not qualify for rebates earlier in Dick Armey, R-Texas, said the GOP capital gains rate for investments the year would receive checks for package could cost well over the made after the Sept. 11 terrorist $300 or $600, according to officials $75 billion upper limit suggested by attacks. 
page 6 
The Observer . NEWS Thursday, October 11, 2001 
Rego~
N.Y. mayoral primary heats up 
continued from page 1 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Democratic mayoral hopefuls Mark Green and Fernando Ferrer made last­minute appeals to voters as they headed into New York City's first mayoral runoff in 24 years. a race that took a drastic shift after the terrorist attacks. 
Polls indicated a virtual dead heat between Green. the citv's Public Advocate, and Ferrer, the Bronx
'. 
I 
Borough President. The winner advan<'es to the November election to take 
I 
on billionaire media mag­nate Michael Bloomberg in the race to replace popular 
Mayor Rudolph Giuliani. The two-term Republican has been lauded for his lf'adership in the aftermath of the attacks on the World TrarlP Center. Ile flirt!':d briefly with the idea of try­ing to challenge term-limit laws and remaining in office for a third term, but backed off and said he could stay on to help in the transition. 
M a n y observers 
statement. days trying to maintain his saying he believes momen­
has spent the last several of moderate white voters, 
. Rego also called for Notre Dame not to "buckle to a
support in the black com­tum is on his side after a munity while attempting to late charge by Ferrer in group driven more by the 
energize the white vote, recent months. whPre he hopes to capture "The tide is more than four of every five Greeu said. votes. 
"A dead 
"So it's all come down lo
heat in the polls means this. One more day. It's you go look 
been a lot ofhard work."
at the guy who can turn out his vot-Fernando Ferrer ers, so 
mayoral hopeful
(Ferrer's) got a very good shot,·• said Baruch 'cause' than by the pursuit of truth."
turning," Ginsberg identifies the group as the National
T h C Coalition Against Violent
r a c e 
Athletes -the same group
turned 
Rego calls in his letter a
hostile 
"radical 'rights' group."
earlier 
Kathy B.Pdman, spokesper­this week aftr, r a 
son for the group, denied that the organization was a radi­
television 
cal rights group. She said the
campaign 
group's only goal in this par­
ad by ticular situation was to get
G r c e n Notre Dam,~ to keep its word
q 11 P, S ­
to Pienovi and uphold Hego's
tinned 
ban.
College political science Ferrer's leadership skills. 
Moore also said Notre
professor Douglas Muzzio. The add called Ferrer "bor­"Green's strategy has to· be derline irresponsible" and 
Dame has yet to make a definitive statement regard­ing the upholding of Rego's 
ban. 
West Virginia, howBver, confirmed that Hego will travel with the team to South 
Bend. 
"The bottom line is Cooper Rego was never charged or arrested for any crime that we 're aware of. and he's going on about his normal activities, which means trav­eling with the team,'' West Virginia spokeswoman Becky Lofstead told the Associated Press. "lle's not been in any trouble here. He's been a good student in terms of aca­demics and behavior." 
Contact Myra McGriff at mcgrO 18 l@saintmarys.edu. 
to hold on to his black vote while going after moderate and liberal whites. For him, white voters have to turn out in big numbers." 
Ferrer, who is trying to become the city's first Hispanic mayor, spent much ul' We<lnesdav with union members· in Manhattan, appearing with hospital workers. teachers a n d municipal 
sugg(ists he would "divide our city." 
In response, the Ferrer campaign put togPther a hastily assom bled tc levisio n ad of' its own which ace.used Green of broaking his promise not to Pngage in negative r.amp,tigning. 
Green has also criticized Ferrer's spending propos­als. which include giving leachers a sig11ificant pay raise and providing money 
':4 dead heat in the polls workers for after-school programs.
believe 
at a get­Ferrer defended the
Ferrer has a means you go look at the 
o u t-the­moves as necessary
slight advan-guy who can turn out his vote ral­
improvements even as the
tage over 
voters." lies. city faces new priorities.
G r e e n 
"So it's The victor will have sur­
because 
all come vived a campaign unique in
polls show Douglas Muzzio 
down to city history -one inter­
his base of 
professor this. One rupted when two hijacked
Latinos, 
m o r e jetliners crashed into the
blacks and 
day," a trade center; one in which
members of 
beaming the candidates were
the health 
Ferrer eclipsed by a lame-duck
and municipal labor unions 
told the hospital workers. incumbent. 
are more loyal and better 
"It's been a lot of hard The attacks occurred on
energized than Green sup­
work." day of the scheduled prima­
porters. 
Green campaigned in ry, which was pushed back
Green. the front-runner 
areas with large numbers two wfleks.
for much of the summer, 

Thursday, October 11, 2001 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Media 
continued from page l 
critical of the government's actions. said Sam Husseini. communications director for the Institute for Public Accuracy. 
"Most of CNN's news cover­age is going from one govern­ment news conference to another. That already takes out a substantial chunk of what they're doing," he said. "They'll cover the press briefing with Ashcroft and Powell and when Bush says something they'll cover that. Then they'll have their corre­spondent talk about what you heard. They hardly bring in a policy critic to scrutinize what the government has just said." 
The people who could talk about demilitarization, peace, international law tri­bunals and the ways the world deem as appropriate means for bringing terrorists to justice have not been very visible -with few excep­tions, said Pozner. 
"Look at the people they're sourcing. The people who get quoted and who are writing op-eds are military workers, people who are higher ups in government and people who worked for the CIA in the 80s," she said. 
Greg Downey, assistant anthropology professor, would elaborate and con­clude that the media is under the same pressure that most Americans are in. 
"Questioning the adminis­tration's policy is treated as though one is questioning the existence or the justice of the United States," he said. "Saying that we should talk about this is akin to saying that the terrorism is justi­fied." 
Poznet agreed. 
"You become very quickly judged unpatriotic if you 
don't follow the government's party line in times of war. Nothing can be farthest from the truth. It's journalists' pri­mary function to inform the public and give the public sufficient information," she said. "Critical, independent journalism -that's not only important, but it's also patri­otic." 
Many print and TV media groups have not been very critical of the administration. "Media was pulling the politi­cians into more radical posi­tions because the interview­ers wanted more radical positions and more clearer language to report." said Downey. "When John McCain was interviewed, he said that we need to really just look at this [terrorist attack] -and he's a war veteran. But the reporters kept saying, "don't we have to show these people that we're still strong?"' 
In light of the country's recent decisions to bomb Afghanistan, little critic has been aroused across the country. 
"Even in op-ed pages, you haven't seen a real debate about what the Bush policy is," said Husseini. 
However, Husseini would say that the media coverage has been surprisingly sterile. "There was some human side, but I was surprised how detached some of the journal­ists were," he said. 
Journalists, however, also find it difficult to find sources in a time of war. 
"I think most of the net­works are pretty similar in many ways because it's very hard for western news net­works to get that news and they rely on the same sources," said Downey. 
For economic or political reasons, few media sources have the means to send cor­respondents to places such as the Middle East. Therefore, these sources rely on other media groups, such as the Associated Press or Reuters media coverage of terrorism for information. and war you have to see 
"You end up repeating the them in context,' Pozner said. same thing -a national cho­"When those stories have rus where everyone is singing White House sources, you the same words," he said. have to look at them with a 
Reuters has taken an grain of salt -they've said unpopular step and has they're going to lie." refused to use the term "ter­The media has concentrat­rorist" in describing the ed on the victims in New events of Sept. 11. York and Washington, but lit­
"I think that might be a tle information has been rather tortured way of avoid­related about the victims in ing the reality. In a way, . Afghanistan. you're gently trying to cush­"There doesn't seem to be ion the language and to avoid an interest in the loss of life calling those who did what going on in Afghanistan,· said they did seems misguided," Husseini. "There was an said Bob Schmuhl, tlirecior of overwhelming humanization the John W. Gallivan of the victims of Sept. 11th Program in Journalism, and it's pretty startling that Ethics and Democracy. "I there's not even an attempt think it's wrong and I think to do that with the victims of particularly in this case, to the ongoing attacks.' call the people involved free­Americans seem to know dom fighters is a rather little about the air strikes bizarre use of that phrase ." victims in Afghanistan as the 
Faced with a story of this United States takes a more magnitude, many media active role in the region. The groups grapple with the task. Quatar~based Al Jazera, the The New York Times, for largest major independent example, has media 
added a section  new "A  "Look at the people they 're  network with the  
Nation Challenged' in response to the attacks.  sourcing. The people who get quoted and who are writing op-eds -are  widest audience in the A r a b  
"We've seen is an all-out  military workers ... "  world, has pub­ 
approach that reflects not  Jennifer Pozner  licized 0 s am a  
only  a  large  director at FAIR  b  i  n  
national  and  Lad an 's  
international  state­ 
story but also a  ments.  

local one," Schmuhl said. "To "It's disturbing that the think that a newspaper would U.S. government is trying to devote an entire section for a get the government of Qatar full month and more to a to claim down on [Al Jazera}. ongoing story is pretty A lot of Arab countries have remarkable." tried to crash Al Jazera and 
The government as a it's kinda sad that the United source has become another States is following in its foot­obstacle for the media. The steps," said Husseini. White House said that this Just as the government is war where information secu­attempting to deter media rity is critical. Therefore, all coverage, media groups do information may not not seem to challenge the released. government's unwillingness 
"Whenever you contemplate to give information. 
they will benefit directly from war coverage. Secondly, another problem with the coverage stems from journal­ists' training, said Downey. 
"Rules of what they have for good sources of informa­tion and how skeptical to be about other sources of infor­mation," he said. "They also depend on the government for information because the government gives them infor­mation, compared to trying to find difficult to access alter­native sources.' 
As the government tightens the leaking of information, the media might find itself repeating the same informa­tion. "I think we'll just simply 
see  less  news  and  more  
rehashing  of  what  we.'ve  
already seen,' he said.  

However, some information is purposefully leaked io alter public opinion. When the President was changing loca­tions from one place to another immediately follow­ing the terrorist attacks, there was a leak about a pos­sible threat. 
"That phone call {threat} never happened. [The gov­ernment] lied to show pres­sure off of Bush when people saw that it's not the best thing to be unfounded,' Prozner said. 
Some leeks are printed specifically because the White House wants our opin­ions to be shifted, she said. 
As the government refuses to give information and few American journalists are able to access Afghanistan, many Americans are left with few sources of information. 
"I feel [independent media] offer me some alternative sources of information and alternative opinions and analysis," said Downey. "Which isn't to say that I accept everything I hear. I'm looking for a range of opin­ions, not the one opinion that I want to take as gospel.'' 
Schmuhl believes the 




Arts & Letters Career and Internship Exploration Night 
Thursday, October 11th 7:00 -9:00 p.m.. 102 DeBartolo 
Industry professionals present information sessions about their career areas and what they do. 
Radio Broadcasting  Graphic Design  
Human Resources  Event Planning  
School Counseling  Travel  

Workforce Development/Non-Profit Management Community Health Services Children's Theatre/Entrepreneurial Community/ Economic Development 
Get Your Foot in the Door at the Career & Internship Exploration Night! 
"[The media) is intentional­ly holding back information when the White House tells them to hold back chunks of stories,' said Prozner. "Reporters might be giving in to this tight-lip approach to war coverage, but people don't have to. People can ask for broader, wider, more crit­ical media coverage.· 
Downey focuses on media's existence as a primarily prof­it-producing corporation. As news viewership increases, media, with time, will cri­tique the occurrences. "As time goes on, we should all expect the media to return to a more questioning attitude." 
Downey proposes taking a more active role as viewers and readers. "I don't think there's one answer to know for the future. It's the con­stant questioning that is the process that helps us to keep checking what we do," he said. "People think question­ing undermines strength, but

I~--page-8--------­
t t 
i ~ 
. 
. 
This Week in 
Campus Ministrv 


Iba. 
807 Mass 
8:00 p.m. 
Lounge, Coleman-Morse Center 

Dedication of Paese Fountain and Mass 
6:30 p.m. 
Coleman-Morse Center Chapel 
RCIA Inquiry Session
•
10:00 a.m. 
330 Coleman-Morse Center 

Law School Mass 
5:00 p••rn. Law School Chapel 
MBA Mass 
7:00 p.•m. Mendoza Col:ege of Business Cnapel 

The Way 
Catholic Bible Study 
8:30 p.m. 331 Coleman-Morse Center 
Dia de los Muertos 
6:00 p.m. Coleman-Morse Center Lounge 
Ofrendas (altar) building to honor those who perished as a result ofthe terrorist acts ofSeptember 11. The community is invited to bring tokens ofrememberance (poems, prayers, pictures, etc.) to add to the altar. 
28th Sunday Ordinary Time 
weekend , · 
¦ Presiders 
Basilica of . the Sacred Heart 
Saturday, October 6 Mass 
30 minutes aftergame 
Rev. David J. Scheidler, c,s,c. 
45minutes alter game {Stepan Center) 
Rev. David E. Schlaver, c.s.c. 
Sunday, October 7 Mass 
8:00a.m. 
Rev. Terrence P. Ehrman, c.s.c. 
10:DOa.m. 
Most Rev. David W. Y.anta Bishop of Amarillo, TX 
11:45a.m. 
Most Rev. Michael J. Sheehan Archbishop of Santa Fe, NM 
¦ Sunday's Scripture Readings 
1st Reading 2 kgs 5; 14-1 7 2nd Reading 2 Tm 2: 8-13 Gospel Lk 17: 11-19 
Thursday, October 11, 2001
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
CAMP u·s MIN I 5 TRY 
Retreats 101 r, 0 
:t! 
¦ by Fr. Bill Wack, CSC, Director, Freshman Retreat Program 
.....
As1de from my duties as Associate Director ofVocarions for the priests and brothers ofHoly Cross, I have the privilege of being the Director ofthe Freshman Retreat Program. This retreat is only one "' 
t:,
among many wonderful such offerings available on our campuses. Throughout the course of rhe year, many people avail themselves of this opportunity, hoping that their time away will bring re­
rr,
newal and refreshment. I'd like to invite you to think about joining us for one (or more) of the retreats offered this year. Here are a couple of questions typically asked of us : 
::a 
1) What is a retreat? 
:.b
A retreat is a time (varying in length, from several hours to several days or weeks) when a person can leave the normal routine and grow closer to God through prayer, reflection, and recreation. We are 
--1
told in the Scriptures that Jesus often went away "to a lonely place to pray", and invited his disciples 
......
to do the same. le has always been an important part ofour tradition as Christians to quiet ourselves and to be alone with our thoughts and with God. Many saincs in our Church devoted their lives to contemplation and urged others to follow chem. 
0 
2) Who can go on a retreat? :t! 
With the exception of the class retreats and the ROTC retreats, they are open to everyone (the Freshman Retreat, namrally, is available only for first-year students, for example, and so on). You will need to fill out an application which can be found either online (site address below) or in the 
• 
Campus Ministry Office in the Coleman-Morse Center. Some of them fill up quickly, so apply 
"'•
early ifyou want to go on a particular retreat. 
• 
3) Why do people who have been on a retreat talk about it so much? 
It is common to hear someone talking excitedly about a retreat they were on, and they naturally are drawn to oth-
Jesus says, 
ers who have had similar experiences. To the "outsider" it may seem "Come away by like an exclusive club. But now that I lead the retreats I understand completely why people can't stop talking about them. For those
yourselves to a 
who get to participate, it is usually a very memorable experience ­deserted ' place sometimes even a life-altering one. Then they return to their halls and their classes and are anxious to talk to anyone and everyone
and rest a while" 
about what happened. It's natural to want to share your feelings with others after something so meaningful. 
~ Mark 6:31 4) What happens on a retreat? 
Of course, it depends on the type of the retreat, but the format is 
usually quite similar. The team members who lead the retreat are chosen because of their leadership skills and their willingness to share their faith with others. They prepare weeks ahead ofthe retreat by praying together, practicing their talks, and getting to know each other. On the retreat ir is these people -students and staff -who give the reflections to the retreatants. Small groups are almost always a part of the retreats, which enable you to meet fellow students here and talk about matters of your faith. Prayer services and Mass are also part of nearly all retreats here, and those are really awesome. Finally, there is ample time for rest, fun, and quiet reflection. 
5) What kind of opportunities exist here on campus? 
There are many, many different retreats offered here on campus. To name a few: Freshman Retreat, Senior Retreat, Notre Dame Encounter with Christ, Retreat for Gay, Lesbian and Bisexual students , ROTC Retreat, Women's Retreat, Latino Retreats, Learning to Talk about Race Retreats, class retreats, hall retreats, and more. There is one to suit most peoples' interest, at different moments in their lives. Check out the Campus Ministry Retreat Website: http://www.nd.edu/ ~ministry/listing.html 
6) Do you have to be Catholic to go on one of these? No. We welcome all people to join us regardless of religious affiliation. With the exception of the RCIA retreat, the goal is hot to indoctrinate one into a particular faith, but to assist the person in deepening his/her relationship with God. Of course, as this is a Catholic university our retreats are heavily influenced by our faith, and most include Mass and/ or Reconciliation; but all are very welcome to participate in as full a way as possible. 
I would urge you ro take advantage ofthese options that lie before you. You may never have the opportunity again to go on so many retreats with such a wealth ofexperience and faith around you. Think ofit as a gift you give to yourself -for God. 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 
@ mass on fridav nights,Bpm 
Thursday, October 11, 2001 The Observer . NEWS page 9 
Tech lab opens in ND's Kaneb Center 
new facility is to enhance 
By SHEILA EGTS 
teaching and learning News Writer through the addition of com­puter-based technology. Last week marked the Barry said, "This service is grand opening of the intended to augment the fac­Learning Technology Lab in ulty support provided by the thn Kaneb Center for Office of Information Teaching and Learning at Technologies Educational Notr(' Dame. Technology Services with 
\ consensus regarding the whom we have a close collab­1werl for more support f"or orative relationship." faculty in evaluating, select­The space also includes a ing, and implementing tHch­high-tech faculty aml teaching no!ogical tools in the class­assistant lounge whc>re room prompt('d tlw building instructors can connect lap­of tlw lab. The iclm1 for the tops to thn Internet and meet I.naming Technology Lab is with colleagues, Coffoc and about two tea are also wars old, but available
"The operation ofthe
thP actual compli­planning for facility consists of,working ments of tlw facility the Kancb
with the faculty and 
lwgan in Center. The
teaching assistants to
"-1ar<'l1. lab and fac­T h fl determine ifthere are ulty lounge 
I. I' a r n i n g technology tools that are open T <' r h no Io gy for drop-in
will help them in
Lall. locatPcl assistance at 3:iO their classes and, or by 
DP Bartolo ifso, to develop and appoint­11 a 11. off<• rs ment from
implement those tools." 
assistant~<' to 8 a.m. to 5 f'acultv and p m l P a r .h i n g Kevin Barry Monday 
assistants in through
Kaneb Center assistant director 
dPvPloµing Friday. tPchnologir.al Student tools that tlw 1rnwt specific consultants are available for nPPds of individual courses. assistance for about 30 hours 
According to KPvin Barry. a week along with Kevin assislant d ireclur of tllP Barrv and Chris Clark. Kantdi Cf'nll'r for Teaching ·'The response has been and Lnarning, "Tim operation positive," said Barry. "For or thP l"acilitv consists of many people. the grand open­working with tho faculty and ing was the first time that tPaching assistants to deter­they became aware or the mine if tlwre are tr.chnology lab's existence, and their tools that will help them in comments indicated that they thnir class<'S and, if so. to were excited to be aware or dPvPlop and implc~nrnnt those the facilitv and interested in tools. This interaction can taking advantage of' the sup­tak(! the form of individual port that is being offered." consul,;ations or group work­shops. Contact Sheila Egts at 
Thn nri,;,rnrv ohirwtive of the egts0236@saintmarys.edu 

•  Sports Marketing  
•  Advertising  
•  Public Relations  
•  Sales and Retail  
All Majors and Ages-Welcome  

Sponsored by the Notre Dame Career Center and the Marketing Club. 
Got news? Let Scott know. call the nevvs desk at 631-532:3:,r>. 
Nation healing from attacks 
Asso,;;iated Press 
NEW YORK 
Firefighter Chris Balducci's eyes grow distant when he is asked what he has seen, what he has felt. He doesn't want to talk about it anymore. 
He doesn't want to go to any more funerals. He'd like to get a good 
night's sleep. Ile would like to stop hearing the bagµiµes· funeral dirge in his head. 
And yet, one month after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, he knows there is no end in sight. 
Balducci is a member of 

Ladder Co. 4. 1-lis firehouse Guiliani lost 15 out of 60 firefighters in the aftacks. 
"Usually, I wear this uniform onc_e a year," he said patting his smart dress suit and white hat as he stood outside St. Patrick's Cathedral this week for the funeral of As.sistant Fire Chief Donald Burns. "At tJ1is point, I've worn it so often, this uniform could salute on its own." 
After a month, the healing has only just begun. There is so much to overcome, so many changes to year-old stock trader who worked on the 83rd floor of 1 World Trade Center. "But this is my life now. I have to live it." 
Progress is marked by slight victories. A street is reopened. Dhingra's finger moves a fraction. 
In the past four weeks, the giant crime scene has shrunk a street at a time, sometimes a block at a time. Now, a visitor on foot can walk close to the crash site. 
And travelers come -armed with cameras or shooting video. It is a new kind of macabre which replaces thP images of office workers jumping to their deaths f'rom fiery windows or running for their lives through high-rise canyons. 
Daily life at ground zero has settled into the teeth-rattling drill of' jackhammers, the pitched roar of dump trucks straining in low gear. the relentless beep-beep-beep of 18-wheelers in reverse. The air is still putrid, thick with dust, breathed through particle masks worn by office workers with vacant. determined stares. 
Broadway is a clogged, swollen artery of police squad cars, unmarked detectives' sedans, American Red Cross vans and phone company vehicles. Pedestrians spill off the sidewalk and into the street, where gawkers stop in the mid­dle of intersections to look an empty space of sky where the trade center used to be. And then they take
"/ may never be normal
absorb. pictures of it. A city has to figure out how again. Rut this is my life Although more than 258,000 to replace the experience and tons of debris has been carted
now. I have to live it." 
bravery of 343 firefighters lost awav, far more remains. Of the when the towers collapsed. more than 5,000 dead and Families have had t.o learn how Manu Dhingra missing, many still lie some­to hold funerals and grieve New York rescue worker where beneath the rubble, 
without bodies to burv. And a nation, accustomed to· asense of its own invulnerability, has had to cope with its sudden violation -and turn its energy to war. 
The road to recovery, for New York City, for the Pentagon, and in the hearts and bodies of the survivors. is traveled an inch at a time. 
At ground zero at the World Trade Center, it is anoth11r girder pulled from the wreckage, anoth­er body part carried off in a bucket. At St. Patrick's. it is still another funeral. For 'vlanu Dhingra, it is a few minutes with slc>ep, a dav without Percocet. · · 
"I won't be normal for a while," he says. his burned arms coated in tight bandages, his face_ blistered and peeling, his right hand patched with skin from his thigh, his fingers stripped to cherry rod. 
"I may never be normal again." said the 27­which smolders and burns. 
It will take a year to clean up the site, Mayor Rudy Guiliani says. That is the same timeline doctors gave Dhingra, whose par­ents moved to America f'rom their native India when he was 11. For one year. he must keep his tortured skin away from sunlight. He attends physical therapy three times a week, stretching his taut. damaged skin and learning to care for the new skin on his hands and arms, which used to be on his thigh. 
He has felt sorry for himself. he admits. He has despaired. When he does, he thinks of those he left behind in the hospital. Like tho woman burned over 80 percent of her body, whose pain was so intense doctors used drugs to induce a coma-like state. 
"Everyday her husband comes," Dhingra says. "lie reads to her, and plays sort music. Everyday." 
House elects Pelosi No. 2 Democrat 
outpolled rival Rep. St<'ny Hoyer tough battle." Pelosi said after
. California rep to 
of Maryland by 118-95 in a the vote. "We made history.become highest­closed-door, secret ballot vote. Now we have to make ranking woman She will take the post of progress." 
Democratic whip on Jan. 15 Pelosi's triumph brought
ever in Congress 
when Rep. David Bonior steps praise from groups that tradi­down from that job and concen­tionally support Democrats. trates on running for governor "We don't get to break a glass
Associated Press 
of Michigan. ceiling in Congress very often." Both candidates claimed to be said Kim Gandy, president of the WASHI;\/GTON best positioned to lead their National Organization for 
California Rep. Nancy Pelosi µarty back to the House majori-· Women. won the race Wednesdav for the ty it last held in 1994. Pelosi, 61, Supporters said Pelosi pre­No. 2 House Democratic loader said she sought no votes on the sents Democrats with an and will become the top-ranking basis of her gender, but clearly appealing package. woman ever in Congress. Her many of her colleagues felt it Her base is in one of the coun­election sparked debate over was time for a woman to enter try's more affluent areas, and whether she will help or hinder the leadership circle. supporters praised Pelosi's abili­her party. "This is difficult turf to win on ties as a fund raiser. Aides said 
Pelosi, a liberal eight-term for anyone, but for a woman she has raised $1.6 million for veteran from San Francisco, breaking ground here it was a Democratic candidates this year. She also is being counted on to enhance the party's ability to attract women. ·
ruNivERS1Tv-LAUNDRY&7 
"'.\1ost campaigns run on the energy of women," said Rep. George Miller, D-Calif., who
I TANNING I 
helped run Pelosi's leadershiµ campaign. "This is a major.I 1813 South Bend Ave. I major step for the future of this 
party." Other lawmakers from both 
lcAMrus SHOPS. TANNING srECIALI parties wondered whether 
Pelosi could overcome the labelI lOVISITS FOR$20WITH COUPON I of being a San Francisco liberal. "It makes me feel good as a
I DROP-OFF LAUN DRY I 
liberal," said Hep. James Moran,
I $.65/LB. WITH COUPON I D-Va .. who supported Hoyer. "But I'm not sure it does a lot for our future."
I ($6 MINIMUM) I 
L __ ~i!!.S!!!V~b!!:_1~0_!!! __ _J 

page 10 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, October 11, 200 l 
4~~ 
:.-,· 
Friftn!J, October 11, 1001 Doors open 10:JO P.M. • ~ctioo stnrts 11:00 P.M. • En.ts 1:00 ~.M. Jo!lce Center • Universit!J of Notre Dnme 
NDWomeos 9-9All
* f REE ~DMTSSTON 
Conch Muffer Mc<;rAw · 
ZOOPERST~RS *Fnos compete with the to 
entertnin * *bnsketbnll plnuers Free Dunk contest cnntl!J nnll T-shirts
*Wfo round-trip nirplnne 
..­
• k ~Anh .T. ., ND Mens B-BAll
t1C ets COUrteS!J ~ t OnJI1aVei CoAclJ Mike 9re!I 

South Bend 1iibune 
DIKOYer WWJ In It fer,-. 

Thursday, October 11, 200 I The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Networks agree to edit footage Third Fla. victiID tests 
"{Condoleeza Rices'sl sure among the television news
A$SOci;ne<l Press 
positive for anthrax 
organizations, which has
biggest point was that 
increased this week as the news 
Thr. five major trlevision news organizations rnached a joint agreement yesterday to follow the suggestion of the White House and abridge any future videotaped statements from Osama bin Laden or his Collow­ers to r,•move language thP. gov­ernment considers intlammato­ry. 
The dPcision. the first time in memory that the networks had agreed tu a joint arrangement to limit tht'ir prospective news cov­erage, was described by one net­work executive cts a 'patriotic' dncision that grnw out of a rnn­forencc call between the nation's top television news executives and thn White House national s,~curitv adviser. Condoleezza Hice, ynsterday morning. 
The live news organizations, ABC News. CBS N0ws, NRC News, along with its subsidiary, MSNBC, the Cable News Network and tlrn Fox News Channel all had broadcast, unedited. a taped message from Mr. bin Laden on Sunday. On Tuesday, the all-news cable channels. CNN, Fox News and MSNBC, also carried the com­plete speech of a spokesmen for Al Qaeda. 
Ari Fleischer, the White House spokesman, indicated in his news briefing yesterday that Ms. Rice was primarily concerned that terrorists could be using the broadcasts to send coded mes­sages to other terrorists, but the network executives said in inter­views that this was only a sec­ondary consideration. 
The Associated Press Reporters in the pressroom of the Emmy Awards program on Sunday watched the televised statement of Osama bin Laden. The fivn major networks have 
here was a charismatic speaker who could arouse anti-American sentiment getting 20 minutes ofair time to spew hatred and urge hisfollowers ta kill Americans. " 
Neil Shapiro NBC News president 
agreed to edit future video appearances by Mr. bin Laden. 
They said Ms. Rice mainly argued that the tapes enabled Mr. bin I.aden to vent propagan­da intended to incite hatred and potentially kill more Americans. 
The executives said that they would broadcast only short parts of any tape issued by Al Qaeda and would eliminate any pas­sages containing flowery rhetoric urging violence against Americans. They agreed to accompany the tapes with reports providing what they called appropriate context. 
They also agreed to avoid repeatedly· showing excerpts from the tapes, which they had previously done in what one executive described as 'video wallpaper.' 
One network, ABC, said it would limit the use of moving images from tapes released by Mr. Bin Laden or Al Qaeda, mostly relying on a still picture from a frame of the tape and the printed text of whatever mes­sage was being delivered. 
The coverage of the aftermath of the terrorists attacks on New York and the Pentagon has gen­erated intense competitive pres-divisions labored to find images to continue documenting American attacks on Afghanistan. 
The tapes have been broad­cast by th_e Arabic language satellite network Al Jazeera and picked up by the American net­works. 
The news executives said they had nevPr previously consultPd one other en masse and come to an agreement on a policy about coverage. 
But they said the current cir­cumstances were unlike any oth­ers they had encounternd. 
"This is a new situation, a new war and a new kind of enemy," said Andrew Heyward, the presi­dent of C.BS News. "Given the historic events we're enmeshed in, it's appropriate to explore new ways of fulfilling our responsibilities to the public." 
The presidents of the news divisions all said that Ms. Rice had not tried to coerce them. 
"She was very gentle, very diplomatic, very deft," said Roger Ailes, the chairman of Fox News. 
Walter Isaacson, the chairman of CNN, said, "It was very useful to hear their information and their thinking." He added, "After hearing Dr. Rice, we're not going to step on the land mines she was talking about." 
Mr. Isaacson did not specify what information Ms. Rice had provided that led to the execu­tives' decision. 
"Her biggest point," said Neal Shapiro, the president of NBC News, "was that here was a charismatic speaker who could arouse anti-American sentiment getting 20 minutes of air time to spew hatred and urge his follow­ers to kill Americans." 
M. Marc Fumaroli Professor ofRhetoric and Society in Europe (XVfh -XVIfh centuries) 
College de France Invites you to a seminar 
CONSTANTINE THE GREAT BETWEEN PARIS AND ROME 
12 noon Friday October 12, 2001 Room 119 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Marc Fumaroli, of the Academie fram;aise, is the author of numerous books, including 
Le Peete et le Roi : Jean de La Fontaine en son siecle. (1997) ( English translation forthcoming, University of Notre Dame Press ) 
Sponsored by the Erasmus Institute Co-sponsored by the departments of Classics, English, History, Romance Language and Literature, 
and the Medieval Institute, University of Notre Dame 
A copy of Professor Fumaroli's paper is available in advance of the seminar. Please send a request for the paper to erasmus@nd.edu and indicate if you prefer an attachment I e-mail or an actual copy of the paper (specify mailing address on campus). 
Associated Press 
BOCA RATON, Fla 
Federal officials announced tonight that a third person in South Florida had tested posi­tive for exposure tu anthrax and said forcefully that thdr efforts had become a criminal investi­gation. 
The latest exposed is a 35­year-old woman who works in the same building where two other people were exposed, one of whom died last week. 
The officials said they found traces of anthrax in the wom­an's nasal passage and that she was taking antibiotics. The offi­cials withheld the woman's identity, saying they were doing so at her request. 
"There is another individual who has tested positive for the presence of this virus." said Guy Lewis, the United States attor­ney fur the Southern District of florida. "It is now a criminal investigation." 
The authorities said that there was "no indication" that the exposures were related 
"It is now a criminal
to the Sept. 11 one from terrorist investigation." Texas and to attacks, but one from would not rule Iowa," said
Guy Lewis
out that possi­Dr. Martin E. bility. U.S. attorney Hugh-Jones of 
evening that the F.B.I. is begin­ning to conclude that thn anthrax was stolen from a U.S. lab in Ames, Iowa. 
The reports led to speculation that the Florida germ it might be a highly virulent type of anthrax known as the Ames strain, which was discovered in Iowa and studied as a possible germ weapon by the American military before President Nixon renounced germ weapons in 1969. 
Kevin Teale, a spokesman for the Iowa Department of Publir, Health, said today that the Ames strain was discovered in the 1950's in at Iowa State University, in livestock that had died of anthrax. It has since been sent to laboratories across the world for research purposes. 
But scientists familiar with the investigation said the UNA of the Florida germ was not an .exact match to any of the strains, or subspecies, of anthrax samples kept in the most romplete anthrax collections, including the Ames strain. 
"The Florida isolate is similar 
to an isolate 
from Haiti, to 
Dr. John 
Agwunobi, 
Secretary for the Florida 
Department of Health sought to 
reassure the public that anthrax 
was not contagious and that the 
contamination appears to be 
limited to the headquarters of 
the American Media Inc., build­
ing here, where the three people 
worked. 
He said that health officials 
had so far tested nasal passages 
of 700 people and found only 
one that tested positive for 
anthrax. 
The announcement tonight 
significantly alters a weeks-long 
investigation that the. authorities 
had initially characterized as 
primarily a health probe into 
isolated incidents. 
"We understand that this is a 
problem, and we will bring 
every resource we have to bear 
on this problem and I assure 
you we will solve it," Mr. Lewis 
said. 
The authorities said the 
woman did not exhibit the flu­
like symptoms associated with 
Anthrax contamination. "She is 
on antibiotics and we will be 
working very closely "vith her," 
Dr. Agwunobi said. 
On Friday, Robert Stevens, 63, 
a layout editor for the Sun 
tabloid, one of American 
Media's publications, died after 
being diagnosed with Anthrax. 
Days later, spores were detected 
in the nasal cavity of Ernesto 
Blanco, a 73-ycar-old mail 
supervisor at the Sun. The 
authorities closed the American 
Media building on Monday, after 
the discovery of Mr. Bianco's 
exposure and or a spore of the 
bacteria on Mr. St,wens' com­
puter keyboard. 
Officials have not yet said how the p0ople became exposed to the anthrax nor have they con­cluded what the source was. The Miami Herald reported ·Wednesday that investigators had linked the anthrax to a strain that was harvested from Iowa in the 1950's, and NBC News reported Wednesday 
Louisiana 
S t a t e University, a leading anthrax expert who is advising scientists who are attempting to identify the strain. "It doesn't match exactly any of those three, but those are the three nearest to it. It's not the Ames strain, far from it," he said. 
Dr. Hugh-Jones said that if the bacteria involved in the Florida case did turn out to be in the Ames strain, "it could be from anywhere," because so many laboratories around the world have made use of the germ. 
Late last night, Dr. Richard Spertzel, who headed the U.N. biological inspection teams in Iraq and who is familiar with the investigation said he had been told by someone involved in the work that the Florida germ's DNA had yet to be matched exactly to any known anthrax strain. 
Scientists familiar with the federal investigation also said preliminary tests suggested the Florida strain was not one of the well-known strains used over the decades to make anthrax weapons. 
Dr. Scott Lillibridge, the chief adviser on bioterrorism to Tommy G. Thompson, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, testified in the House of Representatives today that the Florida strain is sensitive to penicillin and a variety of other drugs. 
''That is not the hallmark of an engineered bioweapon," he said. 
All told, American researchers have accumulated 1,200 sam­ples, or isolates, of anthrax from around the world. But only 400 or so of those samples have undergone DNA analysis that reveals their genetic signatures. So the UNA library that allows quick identification of unknown anthrax strains is fairly small compared to what has been so far collected. Scientists believe many more anthrax strains exist in the wild. 
page 12 lhe Observer . NEWS Thursday, October 11, 2001 
Lawmakers call for safer roads 
Claybrook, president of the
. Senators urge for 
lobbying group Public Citizen. tighter standards l<Hl agents investigating the for drivers Sept. 11 terrorist attacks 
found that several Middle
transporting 
Eastern men had obtained
hazardous material fraudulent licenses io trans­port hazardous material. In Pittsburgh, a licensing exam­
Associated Press 
iner was accused of improp­erly securing hazardous WASHINGTON materials permits for 18 dri­
Lavvmakers urging tighter 
vers. Those involved had Arab standards for drivers trans­
names. "'Maybe they're decent peo­
porling hazardous materials ple, but itwere told by 
certainly
foderal offi­c i a l s "No training or prior raises the concern,"
Wednesday certification ofany kind 
said Sen.
that tougher 
is needed to apply for J o h n
rules are on 
the way. and obtain a license to Breaux, D­La., chair­
Senate operate a truck or bus. " 
man of the Committee Commerce 
Commerce John Claybrook · subcommit­
Chairman Ernest president of public citizen tee on sur­
Hollings, D­S.C.. said lawmakers were considering new stan­dards for licensing and crimi­nal background checks for all applicants. 
And Sen. Olympia Snowe, R­Maine, said the background checks ought to be required now. "There are some things that ought to be done immedi­ately, especially when we're talking about transporting hazardous materials," Snowe said at a Senate hearing on truck and bus security in the aftermath of last month's ter­rorist attacks. 
Joan Claybrook, former head of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, said current procedures make it too easy to 
face trans­
portation 
and mer­chant marine. "We ought to have a system that raises flags." 
In response to the senators, the head of the Transportation Departrnent's Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Joseph Clapp, said the agency was looking at revising its rules. 
"Prior to Sept. 11, regula­tions were primarily aimed at preventing accidents," Clapp said. "What we have to do is security as opposed to safety." Rules now being developed could add features like finger­prints to commercial driver's licenses to make them harder to forge or reproduce, said FMCSA's chief safety officer, 
get a Julie Cirillo.
"It's critical that we contin­
T h e
license 
to trans­ue to balance safety and Transportation p o r t security with mobility and Department 
h a z -ardous  economic vitality . "  proposed leg­is I at ion  
ma teri­als.  Ellen Engleman  Wednesday to give agency  
"  N  o  administrator of the transportation  officials more  
training or prior certifi­ department's research and special programs  authority to inspect mate­rials being  
cation of  transported  

any kind is needed to apply and increasing the penalty for for and obtain a license to violating hazardous materials operate a truck or bus in regulations from $27,500 to interstate commerce," said $100,000. 
Notre Dame's Graduate Student Union invites you to participate in the 
GSU Lo90 Desi9n Contest 
$150 
CASH PRIZE 
Open to full time undergrads 8c grads currently enrolled in an academic institution within the state ofIndiana. 
DEADLINE: 
All t·ntriL•s musl lw postmarkl•d hy (ktoht•r JI, 2001. 
Submission rules, guidelines and entry form are available at; GSU OfBce, #101 LaFortune's Mezzanine GSU'slWebsite (pdffile), www.gsu.nd.edu 
(zy.e~tions? 
ppc@gsu or villa-real. t@nd.edu 

Ellen Engleman, adminis­
trator of the Transportation 
Department's Hesearch and 
Special Programs 
Administration, said a depart­
ment task force meets regu­
larly to discuss how to control 
shipments of hazardous mate­
rials. 
"It's critical that we contin­ue to balance safoty and secu­.rity with mobility and eco­
nomic vitality," she said. 
The motor carrier agency 
has given the FBI a list of all 
holders of licenses to trans­
port hazardous materials. 
Spokesman David Longo said 
the names were · being 
matched against lists of 
potential terrorists and other 
law enforcement databases. 
Cirillo said the agency is 
visiting 30,000 trucking com­
panies that carry hazardous 
mater.ials, as we11 as leasing 
companies, such as Ryder and 
U-Haul, that rent trucks. 
American Trucking 
Associations Chairman Duane 
Acklie said trucking compa­
nies should have the same 
power to search law enforce­
ment databases as banks, day 
care facilities, airports and 
nuclear plants. Trucking 
firms now hire outside com­
panies to do county-by-county 
checks. 
Meanwhile, freight railroads 
began accepting all cargo 
shipments again, albeit under 
heightened security mea­
sures. These include extra 
patrols, inspections and sur­
veillance by railroad police 
forces. 

Rapper Eminem officially divorced 
Associated I'ress 
MOUNT CLEMENS 
Eminem's divorce is offi­c.:ial after mont.hs of wran­gling over child support. 
The rapper, whose real name is Marshall Bruce Mathers III, and his ex-wife, Kim Mathers, wil.l share custody of their 5-year-old daughter. 
"It's always been Marshall's desire that what­ever happened would hap­pen in th1-1 best interest of the child" said Harvey Hauer, a Franklin attorney who represented Eminem. 
In a divorce decree issued Friday, Macomb County Circuit Judge Donald G. Miller ordered Eminem to pay $1,000 a week -or $52,000 yearly -in child support to his ex-wife, the Detroit Frcl1 Press reported 

dgertt.l~
IKJtiel .se~. ;f)C.. 
1i!ft;.P 17:,1­
Your Student Travel Service 
-. 
Design Your Own Vacation... 
Tuesday. 
Tho settlement is far less than the $2,740 a week ­or $142.,480 annually ­recommended by the l\1acomb County Friend of the Court. Still. llauer said the couple came to an ami­cable resolution. 
"Now they can carry on with their lives and with being the kind of parents they want to be," Hauer told The Macomb Daily. 
A telephone rnessag,~ left at the office of Robert 1-<cldstein, Kim Mathers' attorney in the divorce, was not immediately returned. 
Eminem, 28, and Kim Mathers, 26. were married in June 1999. They legally separated in August 2000. two months after Eminem was charged with using a gun to pistol-whip a man he said he saw kissing his wife outside a nightclub. 

6Student Airfare ointernational Student Identity Card 6Railpasses 6Hostelling International 

., .or Join A Group! 
oSpring Break in Cancun or Puerto Vallarta! oClub Med 
o Contiki Vacations for 18-35 year olds 
i5 Much, much more! 1-800-643-4604 www.edgertonstravel.com 
"A MONTH AFTER THE TRAGEDY" 
Hosted by Knott Hall 
An open forum for discussion about the events that occurred September 11th Come to discuss what you were feeling then and how you feel now, a month later. How has you live changed and how it will be changed forever? 

When: Tonight, October 11 at 8:00pm Where: Knott Hall Chapel Lounge What: It is an forum open to the entire campus. Free Food and Drinks will be 
provided. 
Len Hickman from the Counseling Center will be there to help discuss the issues people bring up and the changes everyone is facing. 

Thursday, October 11, 2001 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 13 

BRING YOIJR COLLEGE ID -MIJST BE 21 222 S. MICHIGAN:: SOUTH BEND:: 219.234.5200 :: HEARTLANDSOUTHBENO.COM 
CALL THE HEARTLAND CONCERT & EVENT LINE 219-251-2568 
presents 
2001 Pre-Law Symposium 
Mock Courtroom of the Law School October 15th , 2001 6:30 -8:00 pm with dessert reception following 
Topics 
Admission Trends, Program Research Individualizing Your Application, Test Preparation 
Special Guests 
Michael Burns-Chicago Kent Rem Fairlamb-Kaplan Regional V.P. Janet Hein-University of Dayton Marilyn Olson-Valparaiso Univers!ty and other Law School Representatives 
Also join us on Sunday, October 14th Free Test Drive MCAT/LSAT DeBartalo Hall, registration 12:00 -1: 00 pm Pre-register by calling 1-800-KAPTEST 

LIVE 
:~ AT HEARTLAND
. 
WEDNESDAY 
NOV. 28 
AFROMAN 
"BECAUSE I GOT.•• " DOORS OPEN @ 9PM SHOWS@10PM $8 IN ADVANCE 
$10D FSHii 
BELIZE 
19 recovered in capsized dive boat 
Associated Press 
BIG CREEK 
The death toll from a dive 
boat swamped by Hurricane 
Iris rose to 19, including 17 
Americans, amid questions 
Wednesday about the decision 
to remain aboard the boat as 
the storm bore down on Belize. 
Iris attacked the Caribbean 
coast country with 140-mph 
winds Monday night, slashing a 
path of devastation through the 
jungle and capsizing the MV 
Wave Dancer, moored off 
Independence, before. losing 
power. 
Belize officials said they had recovered the bodies of 19 peo­ple, including 17 members of a Richmond, Va., diving club that chartered the Wave Dancer and another boat, the Belize Aggressor Ill. Three other peo­ple were missing. All the vic­tims were aboard the Wave Dancer. 
Independence Village Chairman Tony Zabaneh said that as Iris neared, he urged the captain of the Aggressor to bring the divers ashore. Zabaneh is also a part-owner of the docks where the boats were moored. 
"I made it clear to the captain to please get the people off the boat, that the storm was defi­nitely going to hit," Zabaneh said. He said he did not speak with the captain of the Wave Dancer. 
But Belize Tourism Minister Mark Espat called the decision to stay aboard "a judgment call by a trained boat captain." 
Spokesmen for Aggressor 
Fleet Ltd., based in Morgan 
City, La., directed calls to offi­
cials on the boat itself in Belize. 
A man who answered the tele­
phone on the boat said he 
would leave a message with the 
captain, who had gone ashore 
Wednesday afternoon. 
A spokeswoman for the 
owner of the Wave Dancer, 
Peter Hughes Diving of Miami, 
Patricia Rose, said the company 
knew nothing about Zabaneh's 
suggestion to go ashore. 
In the fierce wind and high waves of the hurricane, the Wave Dancer's mooring lines snapped and the boat capsized, officials said. 
"When it broke away I could see the lights of the cabin halfway across the creek, and then I couldn't see anything," said Earl Young, captain of a tugboat moored nearby. 
Espat, whose agency joined police in investigating the inci­dent, said the Aggressor's cap­tain "indicated that both boats were properly tied up." 
"I think what you have was a case where it was certainly dif­ficult to predict the force of the Iris winds, and the result was tragic," he said. "The decision to stay on the boat has turned out to be the wrong one, but I'm not convinced anyone is criminally responsible." 
The dive boats apparently had headed to the area around Independence and a larger town, Big Creek, after forecasts predicted the hurricane would hit Belize City, 80 miles north. 
page 14 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, October 11, 2001 
Peace activists protest U.S~ attacks 
"We have a tough sell this 
Associated Press 
time," said Ofer Levy, a 35-year­old doctor wearing a peace sym­
ROSTON bol on his jacket during the 
His gray hair pulled back in a Boston demonstration. "People ponytail, a 52-year-old pacifist who disagree with us say, 'We clutched an anti-war sign in a just had 6,000 casualties on our city square this wePk, again own soil. What do you mean, mobilized to decry an American peace'?'" war. Anti-war protesters, who have 
But this time, it was diffenmt: been gearing up since the first Americans are scared as never U.S. threats of retaliation. have before. mounted demonstrations in 
"As for convincing people, you Boston, Washington, Chicago, may have to go a little bit fur­San Francisco and elsewhere ther. because there has been an this week. Within hours of the attack on this country," sairl the first attacks in Afghanistan, protestm·, Bill Leary, a Vietnam more than 1,000 protesters con­veteran converted to the peace verged on a New York City park movement 30 years ago. less than two miles from tlrn 
Around the country, peace World Trade Center. activists are again scrawling slo­On Tuesday, at the Boston gans and taking to the streets, protest, organizers had hoped this time to protest thP U.S. for up to 1,000. Instead. barely attacks in Afghanistan. But they 100 came. They somberly lit are striking a gentler, less con­candles, hoisted anti-war signs, frontational tone than in the listened to an Arabic prayer past. searching chant and some for tactics better words of inspi­adapted to the "The peace movement ration, and left. 
political terrain _finds itself with a Most rush-
transformed by hour pedestri­
message ofpeace in a
the Sept. 11 ans breezed by,
situation where 
attacks on the declining protest American home­people's emotions leaflets. But a land. They have jogger, clearly.
have been aroused ...
been avoiding upset by talk of civil disobedience in a way they have peace, waved and other con­never been his arm, uttered frontation. an obscenity,
aroused before. ,,
"It's a different shouted "Death situation, and it to them all!" and creates a special Howard Zinn sprinted away. challenge for the Nearby,
anti-war activist 
· peace move-Patrick Faherty, ment," said a 15-year-old Howard Zinn, the American his­Boston student, watched with torian and anti-war activist. two friends at a distance. "They "The peace movement finds want peace? They don't want to itself with a message of peace in go to war? I hate that. a situation where people's emo­Thousands of people are killed. I tions have been aroused ... in a would actually want to go to way they have never been war," he said. "I get too mad to aroused before." talk about it," he said. Ile too Shaped by Vietnam and last stomped away. mobilized en masse in 1991 dur­Kevin Martin, director of ing the Persian Gulf War, the Washington-based Peace Action, modern peace movement has said some activists have been never confronted such an subjected to hate mail and even atmosphere of intense patrio­death threats. tism steeped in fears for safety "It's understandable that out at home. of people's fear and anger of' the Even at the height of the Sept. 11 attacks that they would nuclear arms race with the support a war," he said. "I do Soviets, the domestic threat -think we need to be sensitive to however frightening -was still people's ... questions about per­only potential. sonal security, which they really 


hawm't had since World War If." new strategies. For starters, he wrong, then why kill more peo­
Even some lif'Plong protest vet­suggested marchers carry ple?" asked Michael Borkson. a erans feel torn. Charles Deemer, American 11ags to make their Boston protester with a guitar a writer who teaches at Portland cultural allegiance clear. slung over his shoulder. State University, in Orngon, quit Many activists are putting Activists are for the first time the movement. aside old anti-war mantras like coordinating a mass mobiliza­
"When a nation is under "give peace a chance," which tion on the Internet. A unified attack. the first decision must be risks sounding naive or irrele­message is emerging: The whether to surrender or to vant in a country that feels itself attacks of Sept. 11 were crimi­fight," he wrote in an open letter under attack. Their new rallying nal acts of mass murder, and to a local newspaper. "I believe cry is "No More Victims!" In the the attackers should be pursued there is no middle ground here: post-Sept. 11 world, they hope by diplomatic and legal means. you either fight or you don't to find heightened compassion War will make domestic terror­fight. and doing nothing for civilian bystanders any­ism more likely, destabilize amounts to surrmulRr." where. countries like Pakistan, and 
Wishing his old comrades well, "If the killing of the people in make the world more dangeroushe advised them to work out the World Trade Center was in the end. 

Considering the 
London Program For Fall 2002 and Spring 2003? 
Remember you can apply via the web. Use our application at www.nd.edu/~londonpr 
page 15 
Thursday, October 11, 2001 The Observer . NEWS 
Airports halt expansion plans 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 
Airports are halting or revamping billions of dollars worth of expansion plans because of fewer fli<:rs and greatPr security concerns 
after the Sept. 11  hijacker  
attacks.  
From  Boston  to  San  

Francisco, airports are delay­ing building run~ays_ and te1:­minals or recons1drirmg addi­tions as passengers remain jittery about flying and air­lines keep planes grounded. 
At Phoenix's Sky Harbor International Airport. work has stopped on most of a $1.2 billion expansion. including preliminary work on a $650 million terminal to replace two existing onf'S. 
"The demand is just not there as it was before Sept. 11." airport spokeswoman Suzanne Luber said. 
Since last month's terrorist attacks, passenger volume is ct own 20 to 30 percent. Airlines have cut their capaci­ty by 20 percent, laid off more than 90,000 employees and warned of multibillion-dollar losses well into 2002. 
Congress last month approved a $15 billion relief package, including $5 billion in cash and $10 billion in loan guarantees for the compa­nies. 
Even before the attacks, air traffic was flat and revenue per passenger down 10 per­cent. said aviation industry consultant Michael Boyd. 
He forecasts that 230 mil­lion fewer passengers will fly in the next five years than 
"The demand is just not there as it was before Sept. 11." 
Suzanne Luber Phoenix airport spokeswoman 
would have if not for the attacks, and that demand will not fully recover until 2005 or 2006 
Airports that have curtailed or are reconsidering expan­sion plans since Sept. 11 include: 
. 
Los Angeles International Airport, which scaled back _its expansion plans to emphasize security over capacity. A revised plan would increase the airport's capacity to 78 million, passengers per year by 2015, instead of the 89 million previously envisioned. 

. 
Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport. which is freezing nonessential con­struction and might delay the opening of a new runway th~t was scheduled to open rn December 2003. 

. 
Charlotte-Douglas International Airport in Charlotte, N.C., which is delaying several projects, including $80 million for a fourth runway. 

. 
San Francisco International Airport, which has halted plans to renovate a domestic terminal and build a new air­port hotel but remains deter­mined to change its status as the nation's most delay­plagued airport by expanding its runways 


. Logan International Airport in Boston, whfire two of the hijacked planes originated. Officials will meet this week to decide "vhether to proceed with the final phases of a 10­year, $ 4 billion renovation. including the addition of a nPw runwav. 
Airports·and airlines also face the costs of increased security. 
Los Angeles Mayor James 
Hahn has suggested adding a 
building east of the airport to 
screen passengers and lug­
gage. Phoenix officials are con­
sidering adding fingerprint or 
eve scans to screen employees 
~ith access to secure areas. 
Halling expansion plans may 
mean having_ to look for new 
financing later. Some airports 
are pushing ahead. 
"We're still fi-xtremely opti­
mistic about the future," said 
Ken Capps, spokesman for 
Texas' Dallas-Ft. Worth air­
port, which broke ground 
Sunday on a $2.6 billion 
expansion that includes a new 
international tPrminal and 
people-mover. 
At Atlanta's airport, the 
nation's busiest, officials are 
still planning to build a $1.3 
billion fifth runway despite 
criticism over the cost and con­
cerns about declining air traf­
fic. 
The first phase of a $1.4 bil­lion expansion plan at Lambert-St. Louis International Airport, includ­ing construction of a runway, will continue even though the airport has lost about $112,000 a day in passenger fees, parking receipts and con­cessions since Sept. 11. 
Workers lose out on coffee profits 
. Procter & Gamble resists plans to return more profits to growers 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI 
Procter & Gamble Co. is resisting the decision uf some companies to sell cof­fee that returns more profits to growers. Instead, P&G prefers its tradi­assistance to growers' com­m unities and schools is more effective than selling what is called fair-trade cof­fee. 
"Fair-trade coffee is just one element," Swallow said. "If you look at the big pic­ture, there are a lot of ways to do it." 
But ·an activist urging P&G to sell fair-trade coffee products said Wednesday that she thinks it helps growers work their way out of poverty. 
Deborah 
James, 
fair-trad()
"Fair-trade coffee is just one
tion of 
director 
helping element. If you look at the big 
for the 
p o o r 
picture, there are a lot ofways S a n 
commu­
Francisco­
to do it."
nities 
b a s e d 
where 
human the cof­Margaret Swallow rightsfee is 
Procter & Gamble spokesperson g r o u p 
grown. 
p & G, a n industry leader with $1 bil­lion in annual coffee sales through its Folgers brand, says its operations in coffee­producing countries have raised millions of dollars to support education pro­grams, build or remodel schools and donate comput­ers to schools. The company produces coffee in countries ranging from Brazil, Venezuela an_d Mexico to Thailand and China. 
P&G spokeswoman Margaret Swallow said the company believes direct 
Global 
Exchange, said she is waiting for P&G's response to the request she made at its annual share­holders meeting Tuesday. 
Sara Lee Corp., whose brands include Chock Full o' Nuts and Chase & Sanborn, began offering fair-trade coffee earlier this year, James said. Starbucks Coffee Co. began selling it a year ago. 
P&G and Kraft Foods, which sells Maxwell House, haven't warmed up the idea, and activists pushing the cause have a tall order. 
,Ct 
'V MD AFTER FIVE 

Frida11r October 12
Thursda11, October 11 
Frida11, October 12 
4:00 p.m~ Women's Volleyball vs.
Dinner time: Remembering the 
10:00 p.m. Comedy: Buzz Sutherland, 
Villanova, Joyce Center Arena
Founders Dinner, North and South 
LaFortune Ballroom 
6:30 p.m. Football Pep Rally (doors at
Dining Halls 
10:00 p.m. Movies: Tomb Raider and 
5:30 p.m.) Joyce Center Arena
5: 15 p.m. Blue Mass, Basilica of the 
Raiders of the Lost Ark, DeBartolo 101 
7:00 p.m. Men's Swimming vs.
Sacred Heart 
and 155* 
Kalamazoo, Rolfs Aquatic
7:00 p.m. Men's Hockey vs. Union 
11 :00 p.m. Midnight Madness, Basket­
7:00 p.m. Men's Hockey vs. Union
College, Joyce Center Fieldhouse* 
ball Kickoff, Joyce Center Arena 
College, Joyce Center Fieldhouse*
7:00 p.m. Play, "How the Other Half 
11 :00 p.m. Tournament Fridays, 
7:00 p.m. -10:00 p.m. Drop In Badmin­
Loves" Washington Hall* 
Euchre, LaFortune Notre Dame 
ton, Rolfs
7:00 p.m. ND Cinema, Startup.Com, 
1:00 a.m. -3:00 a.m. Late Night BBQ, 
7:00 p.m. Play, "How the Other Half
Hesburgh Library Auditorium* 
Fieldhouse Mall 
Loves" Washington Hall*
7:00 p.m. Round table discussion on 
Saturda11, October 12
7:00 p.m. Women's Soccer vs. St.
J.R.R. Tolkien, Hames Notre Dame 
John's, Alumni Field
Bookstore 
6:30 p.m. Dedication of Paese Fountain 
7:30 p.m. Movies: Tomb Raider and
7:30 p.m. Dr. Strangelove, Hesburgh 
and Mass, Coleman-Morse Center 
Raiders of the Lost Ark, DeBartolo 101
Center Peace Center Auditorium 
Chapel
and 155*
8:00 p.m. Informal discussion led by Len 
7:00 p.m. Men's Hockey vs. Union 
7:00 p.m. Men's Hockey vs. Union
Hickman on the 9/11 tragedy, Knott 
College, Joyce Center Fieldhouse* 
College, Joyce Center Fieldhouse*
Hall Chapel 
7:00 p.m. Play, "How the Other Half 
8:00 p.m. 807 Mass, Lounge, Coleman
8:30 p.m. -10:30 p.m. Drop In Lacrosse, 
.. Loves" Washington Hall* 
Morse Center
Rolfs 
7:30 p.m. Movies: Movies: Tomb Raider 
8:00 p.m. Trip to Niles Haunted House,
8:30 p.m. United We Swim, Rolfs Aquatic 
and Raiders of the Lost Ark, DeBartolo 
meet at Library Circle*
Center 
101 and 155* 
8:00 p.m. Sorin Talent Show, outside
8:30 p.m. -Midnight ND Express Pool 
10:00 p.m. -1 :00 a.m. Open Karaoke in 
Sorin Hall
Room open, free billiards, Lafortune 
the Huddle, LaFortune 
8:30 p.m. -Midnight ND Express
Student Center 
10:00 p.m. Movies: Tomb Raider and 
Pool Room open, free billiards,
9:00 p.m. Acoustic Cafe, Lafortune 
Raiders of the Lost Ark, DeBartolo 101 
LaFortune Student Center
Student Center Huddle 
and 155*
9:00 p.m. Crafting Corner: Popsicle
10:00 p.m. Movies: 1omb Raider and 
* All programs are free to ND students unless 
Raiders of the Lost Ark DeBartolo 101/ 
Stick creations LaFortune Dooley Rm 
marked b an* 
15 
. FOR hifORE IMFORMATIOM, VISIT: w'4,w.nd.edu/~sao/ 

.. -----·-----­
THE 
OBSERVER 
page 16 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Norte Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINF.SS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Pac Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: J:,son McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR.: Lturen Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Ammdter SCENE EDITOR.: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MARY"s EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISrNG MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
CONTACT Us OFFlCE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF ........................................ 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME.................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE ........................................ 631-5313 NEWS......................................................... .631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT...........................,... ,...... ,...... ,...631-5303 observer.viewpoinr.l@nd.edu SPORTS................... , .......... , .................... ....,631--4'.>43 observer.sports.1@nd.edu 
ScENE.... ,, ...................................................631-4540 observer .scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0......................,.................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .............. ..631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
V'JSit our Web site at http://obm-ver.ndtdu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as weU as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-co-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online reatuces for spe­
and rares ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
ro meet the editors and 
articles published after 
staff
August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is che independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of che University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the adminiscration ofeicher instirution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements b:>Sed on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors, Commentaries, letters and columns prcsenc the views ofthe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe 
Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available ro all read«ers. The free apr=ion ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters co the Editor must be signed and must include contxt infurmation. 
Q!,ntions regarding Obsmm·po/icm ,hou/,/. I,, dimt­,dt,, F,,litvr in ChiefMilu· Connolly. 
IEWPOINT 
Thursday, October 11, 2001 
i 
_____ ..._. 
I 
l 
I 
···,-... · .. _ 
'-~~~-~---­J 
Win one for Kori 
The Observer has reported the story that the University expelled former running back Cooper Rego for sexually assaulting -raping -then-Notre Dame student Kori Pienovi. 
Mr. Rego was permanently barred from cam­pus. He trans­ferred to West Virginia to play and its football team is visiting Notre Dame this weekend. 
Ms. Pienovi reported these latter facts to administrators at Notre Dame, but as of this writing they have yet to report back to her with any concrete information on actions they will take. 
The University is not disputing the facts of the disciplinary case or its promise to bar Mr. Rego from return. 
My sense is that Notre Dame admin­istrators are doing all that they feel they can do within the parameters of what they feel is possible. 
The wall of silence is likely out of concern for liability given that student hearings are supposed to be confiden­tial. There are conflicting rights here: , Mr. Rego's right to confidentiality ver­sus Ms. Pienovi's right to know and be protected. 
The administration may also be pub­licly silent because it may not know itself what it is going to do. There have been unanticipated issues. 
One administrator commented, "As an individual, security would ask them to leave ... as a group, that is some­thing different, something we haven't been confronted with." 
My sense is that the individual or group distinction does not hold up. If there is a legal restraining order on a person keeping him from returning to 
• 

Todd David Whitmore 
The Common Good 
an establishment where he has acted violently, the law would uphold the order even if the person sought to return as part of a bowling team to bowl at the establishment's lanes. 
The difficult issue is the relationship between University policy on the one hand, and criminal and civil law on the other. 
The problem is whether the findings of private University hearings will hold up when challenged by a civil suit. 
This is the administration's conun­drum: if quiet diplomacy with West Virginia fails, does the University have Mr. Rego forcibly removed? 
My sense is that the University feels morally compelled but legally con­strained, again, by the parameters of what it feels is possible. 
There are possibilities that the University may not have considered or has yet to announce. 
The first is simply to take the legal risk. There are abundant statements in administration documents about acting on a higher moral plane. 
Taking a legal risk for Ms. Pienovi is one way it can do so. Legal risks have been taken before by the administra­tion on behalf of the football team in the form of fighting an age-discrimina­tion suit. Notre Dame lost. 
It may be wary. But a higher moral calling may make such a risk this time warranted even if it might eventuate that Notre Dame loses in court. Moral integrity even in legal loss. 
A second option is, if the University backs off legal measures, for it to issue an official -that is, public -protest. 
·To do so does not require divulgence of the content of the disciplinary hear­ing, only of the decision to expel Mr. Rego. 
A third option, however unlikely, is for Notre Dame to forfeit the game. This is a stronger version of the public protest. To be sure, there would be lost revenues. 
Any policy decision has its cost-bene­fit analysis component. Is Notre Dame willing to lose financially in order to stay true to its promise to keep Mr. Rego -who the University agreed assaulted Ms. Pienovi -off campus? 
Moral integrity even in financial loss. It might be countered that forfeiting would not be fair to the Notre Dame players, but I disagree. 
The University often says that playing football here is about more than win­ning games and pro football careers (and there are 10 other scheduled games for players to display their abili­ties). 
I have also been informed by women at Notre Dame that the football team has a reputation for date rape. Such a reputation is unfair to those players who are upstanding individuals. 
For the University to forfeit the game and for the players to support the deci­sion would indicate in no uncertain terms that this is a team that does not tolerate sexual assault. Moral integrity even in athletic loss. 
If the University does not forfeit, there is still something that the team can do. Players frequently play games for individuals who have been victims of unfortunate circumstance both near and far, whether it is a brother who is struggling against leukemia or a stranger who died in the World Trade Center. 
The players often make public the fact that they are playing for the per­son in question, say, by writing her name on their shoes. 
Notre Dame football players can do the same here: win one this time not for the Gipper, but -·and let it be known -for Kori. 
Todd David Whitmore is an associate professor oftheology and the director of the program in Catholic social tradition. His column appears every other Thursday. He can be reached at whit­more. l@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Scene  
Myra McGrilI  Matt Nania  
Andrew Thagard  Graphics  
Elizabeth Lee  Kristin Krouse  
Sports  Production  
Noah Amstadter  Katie McVoy  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Teresa Fralish  Ernesto Lacayo  

POLL QUESTION 
Is the administration unfair to OutreachND by not giving the organization official club status? Please e-mail viewpoint. l@nd.edu by Friday to report your answer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Truth is the most valuable thing we have. Let us economize it. " 
Mark Twain writer 
t 
~-----­
O
THE 
BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, Octoher 1l, 200 l page 17 
Explain policy regarding OutreachND 
When somethjng like Sept. 11 happens, we tend to focus in on it until we forgAt that anything else is happening in the ,vorld. 
We talk about perspective and remembering what is important. and sometimes we assumP that every­thing that isn't as world­changing as that ewrnt simply Marlayna isn't important. 
Soenneker 
That's not true. and that's been brought homn to mP in a lot or ways over the last month lfere We Go 
The major i>vent that brought Again this mnssagc home to me was learning that 011 Sept. 11. the services of Urn rape crisis center I voluntf'er at were required, because even on tbat day of mass horror, sornconP was being raped. 
So tlw fact is that. while Sept. 11 is probably the must historically imµonant eveut any of us have ever seen. ii does not make other events unimportant. 
l.ife goes un, injusLice continues, and those things are still meaningful. So. despite the fact that today is the onl' month anniversary of thosl' attacks, that is not what I am going to write about. 
I am going to write about one of the other impor­tant things, which we should not allow ourselves to forgot. 
Today is National Cuming Out Day. It is a day to encourage gay. lesbian and bisexual members of our community to be honest with themselves, their friends and family and the world as a whole. 
It is a dav to stand next to them, to support them and to help them find their way through a life, a world and a time that are difficult enough for those who do fit the norm and becomes doubly so for those who do not. 
Last week Notre Danrn deniPd club status to OutreachND for the thii'd time since I have been here. Por those who do not know, OutreachND is a student support organization for gays, lesbians and bisexuals on campus. 
EveTy year they failhfully apply for club status, 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Call for generosity 
We are currently in the process of organizing 
Project Warmth for the 2001-2002 academic year. 
Last year we successfully collected approximately 
1,800 coats for distribution to the South Bend com­
munity and beyond. 
This achievement could not have been done with­
out the support of our' collection sites, sponsors 
and gfmerous donors. This year we aim higher. 
With fall break nearly upon us and many people 
returning Lo their homes, we feel that this is a 
great timr~ to extend an invitation for participation 
in our coat drive. 
We simply-ask that you look for coats that are no 
•tonger being used from your family and bring them back to campus. We will have a collection site. located at the Notre Dame Bookstore. in most cam­pus rlassroom buildings, in every dorm and at S;iint Mary's from mid-Srptcmber to mid­N01,1'mber and as an incentive and ,t thank vou. we will onct• agah1 lw offPring a 25 pe. rcent disZ:ount on a new jacket at tbe Notre Dame HooksLore. 
We art' Pxcitnd to twgin. We have established our framnwork and outlook for tho fall semester. We are prnµared to build upon our past success; how­nwr. WP can only do this with your help. 
We greatly appreciate any support you are able to give. h•ei frpe to contact us with questions. Email: projwarm@nd.edu and take a look at us on tlw wel.J: http://www.nd.edu/~ndcntrsc/ Project Warrnth/mm;/inclex.htm I. 
The Project Warmrh Task Force 2001-2002 Ccmer for Social Concerns Oct. 10, 2001 
which woulu give them the right Lo meet on campus and have a table at activities night, among other benefits, and every year the University turns them down. 
The only reason I have heard given is that the lJ uivcrsity is unsurf: ii. can endorse everything that 0 utreach'.\iD stands for, and thus doAs not want tu approve the club because that approval could be taken as approval for everything the club stands !'or. 
My freshman year l attended a question and answer sp,ssion with Father Edward Malloy in my dorm just after the decision not Lo extend club status tu Outreach was made. 
The question came up as to why this decision had bem1 made, and \fallov reiterated tlrn blanked state1nent I explained above. 
When pressed as to what Outreach stands for that Notre Dame couldn·t endorse, he less­than"artfully dodg!. d the quf'stion by stating that he didn't want to turn the whole night into a discus­sion of Outreach'.'JD. And that was the end of that. 
I'm tired of listening to the University tell its students to stand with the gays, lesbians and bisexuals in our community on the one hand, and then refusing to allow them the opportunity to find support in one another on the other hand. 
While the University does have campus ministry groups to help these students, I imagine there is a limit to how far these groups can really help. 
I would definitely not want my sexuality mediated to me through the Church, and I'm of the orientation that the Church doesn't denounce as fundamentally disordered. 
It must be incredibly difficult to become comfort­able with your sexuality at the same time you are being indoctrinated tu believe that you are funda­mentally disorderP-d because of it. 
It's hypocritical of the University to preach toler­ance, support, solidarity and community and then not allow these students to practice it. 
The way the University has dodged Lhe question of why they make this dPcision is ridiculous and dis­
respectful to the student body. I haven't attended any Outreach meetings, but I am relatively sure that they aren't 
about sex so I'm nut really clear on what the University disagrees with so strong­ly. The administration's absolute 
refusal to explain this decision is insulting. So today. rather than con­centrating on the gay, lesbian and 
bisexual members of our communi­ty, I want to concentrate on the administration. 
l want to encourage them to come out of the closet of secrecy around their decision about Outreach. I 
want to support them as they change J their policies to rectify the vast chasm
lJ between what they preach and what r(J"/ they put into practice.rY I want to stand by them as one people 
in Christ who love all and do not punish those who are different. I want to help them find a way to help our friends and class­mates find their way through a difficult !i!"e. And l want to wish everyone a happy Coming Out Day. 
Marlayna Soenneker is a junior psychology and theology major. Today is Marlayna 's 20th birthday. She would like to request the world's birthday pre­sent to her be world peace. She can be reached at msoennek@nd. edu. Her column appears every other Thursday. 
The vi.ews expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Value promises, integrity 
Uphold equal standards 
I am extremely concerned and evPn angry at the University's position (or lack of one) regarding Cooper Hcgo's return to campus for tho West Virginia game. 
By all accounts. the l..:niversity banned him from campus for sexually assaulting another studenl. Su under its own standards of proof -please excuse the legalese -the Cniversity determined that Cooper Rego committed the crime. I can see no justification -and the University is offering none -for failing to uphold that ban now. 
The University teaches its students to hold themselves to higher standards. Both students and alumni under­stand and accept this calling. It's time the University does the same. 
John C. Thurmond 
class of '94 NDLS J. 0. candidate, '02 0cc. 10, 2001 
In my four years at Notre Dame, there was always one thing you could count on: the members of the administration of the University of Notre Dame would carry out their idea of moral justice with a heavy hand, with little or no regard for anyone else's princi­ples or opinions. They ran things "by the book." While this was frustrating at times, they could at least be respected for their consistency, and the emphasis that they placed on morality. 
If was frustrating all the times Notre Dame refused to recognize an official homosexual student group. It was frustrating when the Women's Resource Center was placed on probation for having Planned Parenthood pamphlets. It was frustrating when Father Garrick was banned from saying mass at the Basilica after he came out as a celibate homosexual. However, these were moral clashes; it was easy to see that good people could disagree on these issues. 
l lost a lot of sleep and a lot of faith in Notre Dame because of the aforementioned incidents. 
They won't hold a candle to the shock, dismay and disgust I'll feel if Cooper Rego is allowed to come to the Notre Dame campus for this Saturday's football game. 
This is a clear case of right and wrong; there isn't much room for opinion and interpretation. As the result of a campus disciplinary hearing for sexual assault, Cooper Rego was banned for life from the Notre_ Dame campus. If Notre Dame chooses to allow him on campus, it will be an act of moral hypocrisy of the highest order. 
I hope and pray that the admtnistration of Notre Dame values their principles, their promises and their integrity more than they value a football game. 
Dan Connolly class of '98 Oct. 10, 2001 
OBSERVER 

CENE.
niovtes 
page 18 Thursday, October 11, 2001 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Washington turns to the dark side 
By ADAM WELTLER 
Scene Movie Critic 
"To protect the sheep, you must catch the wolf. It takes a wolf to catch a wolf." 
This is Detective Sgt. Alonzo Harris' (Denzel Washington) philosophy, which he preaches to rookie Jake Hoyt (Ethan Hawke) on how to fight crime on the streets in the new crime 
times through questionable if not illegal means. 
Hoyt enters the squad as a true green­horn, idealistic and enthusiastic, con­vinced he can make a diITerence in the world. Harris knows how dangerous idealism can be to the both of them. Throughout the day, Harris imparts upon the rookie (and the audience) his hard-nosed take on the streets, giving 
us a cynical view of life in drama "Training Day." the ghettos of L.A.

"Training Day" 
Taking place over one To catch the wolf, you
exhilarating day in south ii!!;,•••• .,,,_ must be a wolf. And
, • ..,¥·'¥·
central Los Angeles, Harris has made himself
out offive shamrocks 
"Training Day" tells the a wolf both feared and story of narcotics rookie Director: Antoine Fuqua 
respected within the Jake Hoyt's initiation Starring: Denzel Washington underworld. 
into the world of inner 
and Ethan Hawke
city crime and his temp­tation with the corrup­tion it breeds. A talented up-and-comer, Hoyt signs on to join Harris, an LAPD narcotics officer with one of the best arrest and conviction records in the force's history. His squad produces the quickest and best promotions in the department, and the ambitious Hoyt needs the job to provide for his wife and infant daughter. 
From their first meeting, Harris domi­nates, treating Hoyt like the rookie that he is, as if he knows nothing. Harris knows the streets like the back of his hand, living the part with his black skullcap and chains. His "office" is a black Monte Carlo complete with rims and a hydraulic system. He seems to know every street and every dealer, using his knowledge to make contacts and get the information he wants, some­Hoyt's training begins 
with Harris forcing the rookie at gunpoint to smoke PCP-laced pot, which they had confiscated from a bust. His rationale: "If I was a dealer, you'd be dead by now." Hoyt reluctantly accepts, and begins his initiation into a world he already dislikes. Harris' tactics and methods are unorthodox and mostly illegal, but he is always quick to back up his actions with seemingly legitimate reasoning. 
But as Hoyt continues to follow Harris, he becomes aware of the corruption that has overtaken him in his quest for justice. He sees Harris steal money from drug dealers, pull a knife on a prisoner in custody, and murder one of his crimi­nal contacts (a friend) to pay a debt. We learn more of Harris' private life, including the price on his head that he needs money to pay off. Once Hoyt real­izes this, it is already too late, and get­ting out may cost him his life. 
Thought provoking and exciting, "Training Day" gives its audience a close look at the paths we can lake for justice. 
One cannot help but draw com­parisons to our country's war on terrorism. Should terror be fought with terror? To fight the enemy, one must know the enemy, and Harris does this. But at what cost'? The film shows that crossing the line into treachery can give us an advantage on evil. but it can easi­ly consume us in the process. 
As Sgt. Harris, Washington gives one of the best performances of his career, creating a character that is both two-faced and intimi­dating, likeable and loathsome, and brutal yet almost necessary. 
Ethan Hawke tries to portray a transformation in Hoyt from an idealistic rookie to a hardened cop, but the script doesn't develop this change as much as it should. 
Rap artists Dr. Dre and Snoop Dogg provide cameos along the way, playing a crooked cop and a wheelchair-bound crack dealer, respectively. 
"Training Day" is solid enter­tainment and certainly tells an engrossing story. The weakness­es lie in Harris' complete formation into a representative figure of the evils in society. But, then again, if audiences are to accept "Denzel" as a villain, he had better be really bad. And, as Harris, Washington is one bad cop. 
In a nutshell: Top tier entertainment 
with some important themes and an impresive performance by Washington. 
Contact Adam Welder at aweltler@nd.edu. 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Mitchell rocks every 'Inch' of movie musical 
his mom, "Jesus said the darned-est things." the complicated life and loves of Hedwig than would be
ByBILLFUSZ 
Based upon the cult off-Broadway musical, "Hedwig proper to give away in this review. But what can be 
' Scene Movie Critic 
and the Angry Inch" is a humorous, bittersweet exami­described is the work and performance of Mitchell, 
' 
' nation of the life of a transvestite rock star (John which can only be called a tour de force. 
f Any movie in which the main character writes a the­Cameron Mitchell, the film's writer, director and star) By writing, directing and starring in "Hedwig,"sis on rock 'n' roll and German philosophical sensibili­and her band, The Angry Inch. The story opens at the Mitchell has taken on an incredible amount of responsi­ties entitled "You Kant Always Get What You Want" is a beginning of their world tour, which is bility for a story that clearly means a 
must-see. Likewise for a movie that has a child telling premiering behind the salad bar at a great deal to him. The fact that he
"Hedwig and the
r Chili's clone restaurant called manages to carry off all three func­
I 
Bilgewater's. Angry Inch" tions with such a great amount of pas­
'I 
The audience soon learns that the sion, energy and humor is a near-mir­reason for the strange-venue is a acle. musical grudge: A former flame of out offive shamrocks The main virtue Mitchell has accom­
····~ 
Hedwig's has stolen one of her songs plished is originality and freshness. He
Director: John Cameron Mitchell 
and recorded them for a major studio is able to use rock 'n' roll in unexpect­
Starring: John Cameron Mitchell
under the name Tommv Gnosis. Now eg ways with unexpected characters. 
a major rock star along the lines of For example, it is doubtful that anyone 
Marilyn Manson. Gnosis has also begun a world tour. anywhere has ever written a power ballad based on 
one that plays at major stadiums, while Hedwig toils Plato's "Symposium," much less one that people would 
along in the shadows. The hope is that her lawyer will care to hear again and again. Mitchell accomplishes 
be able to build up the tabloid press necessary to this, and even more importantly, is able to link it organ­
demonstrate that, in fact, the songs are Hedwig's and ically into ihe plot rather than leave it as a sideshow. 
she deserves royalties for them. In this way, "Hedwig and the Angry Inch" is much like 
In between musical numbers, the story of Hedwig's the other great movie musical of the year, "Moulin life is told. Via flashback, the audience learns that she Rouge." Both are undoubtedly films and not simply was originally Hansel, a child growing up in West Berlin musicals placed on screen. This has to do with the man­during the Cold War. He comes to America after having ner in which the directors of each utilized special a love affair with an American master sergeant who effects and animation in new and exciting ways impos­tells him the only way to get to America is to get mar­sible for Broadway to duplicate. ried, and in order to do that, Hansel will have to "leave But the best thing about each film is the earnestness something behind.'' of the characters. Rather than simply using a transves­
Following the resulting botched sex change operation tite rock star as a gag, Mitchell uses her to tell a story (hence the "Angry Inch"), Hedwig is ditched in a trailer and make us care about the character. Nothing could park in Kansas by the G.J. and left to her own devices in be more important in the making of a good movie. a strange land. She makes it by babysitting and starting In a nutshell: Inventive and character-driven ­a rock band with some of the Army wives, who she says seek this one out. were a ''mean bass section." 
As the story continues, the viewer learns more about 
Contact Bill Fusz at wfusz@nd.edu. 

O
THE 

BSERVER 

CENE.
movt 

Thursday, October 11, 200 I 
page 19 
MOVIE FORECAST 
4th quarter promises end to mediocrity 
By MATT NANIA 
Scene Movie Editor 
What a year it's been. Or at least, what a first nine months it's been. 
The sentiment among filmgoers as the calendar turns to its final months is sim­ilar to what was felt in September of last vear, before the release of audience favorites "Almost Famous," "Requiem for a Dream" and "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon." The beginning three quarters of the year had (have) ultimate­ly failed to deliver, and now it's up to the fall movie season to save the day. 
It's not a terrible position to be in, as far as the year in cinema goes. Fall is traditionally the time when the best films are released, even though in years past, top-notch products have snuck by in the spring or summer. In fact, the one remarkable film of 2001 so far ­Christopher Nolan's "Memento" -hit theaters in a platformed release during March and April. 
But the big guns are held back for October, November and December. Even January isn't out of the question. Steven Soderbergh won an Academy Award for directing "Traffic," which had its wide release earlier this year. 
The past three months certainly haven't been much help as far as quality is concerned. There have been a num­ber of box office successes, including August's "Rush Hour 2," which current­ly ranks second among the year's list of highest-grossing films at $215 million. 
July had its hits as well. "Jurassic Park 3" and "Planet of the Apes" have grossed a combined $350 million. The family hits "Cats & Dogs" and "The Princess Diaries" and the chick flick-y "America's Sweethearls'' and "Legally Blonde" account for nearlv $400 million -all of them either passed or nearly made it to the $100 million mark. 
But the only film to receive any mea­surable acclaim in July, August or September was Alejandro Amenabar's "The Others," which grossed a relatively modest $80 million (and still going strong). It was hailed as a return to the stylish ghost stories of old, but aside from some artistic awards, it's not the sort of film that will be a major con­tender at next March's Oscar ceremony. 
September was something of a sub­
dued month of releases, with a number of factors keeping things on the lowdown. 
Studios traditionallv line up their worst releases for late August and early September, as a sort of a buffer period between the summer noisemakers and the quality films of autumn. 
The World Trade Center and Pentagon terrorist attacks put a dent in box office receipts, although one suspects that if the average moviegoer had not attended a movie in the first three weeks of September, he wouldn't have missed much any­way. 
Like the first nine months of 2001, the next three ultimately hold some disap­pointment for film fans, but they should deliver far more often as well. 
The end of October sees Robert Redford and "Sopranos" star James Gandolfini squaring off in the dramatic prison movie ''The Last Castle." Johnny Depp and Heather Graham irivestigate the mystery of Jack the Ripper in "From Hell." And Kevin Spacey looks to light up the screen with Jeff Bridges in "K-Pax," a drama equal parts sentimental and supernatural. 
November will see the release of the first of the year's two long-awaited fan­tasy films, "Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone." The other is the prin­cipal installment in the "Lord of the Rings" trilogy -'The Fellowship of the Ring" -which debuts in mid-December. Also in December, Will Smith will don the boxing gloves to play the great Cassius Clay in "Ali" -a starring turn that harkens back to 1999, when Denzel Washington made a mostly thankless appearance as Rubin Carter in "The Hurricane." 
A number of top-notch directors also deliver their goods in the year's final month: Steven Soderbergh has the crime caper "Ocean's Eleven," starring George Clooney, Brad Pitt, Matt Damon and many others; Cameron Crowe will follow up "Almost Famous" with the Tom Cruise-Penelope Cruz romance-sus­pense-thriller "Vanilla Sky;" "The Green Mile's" Frank Darabont will go all Capra-esque for the period drama "The Majestic," starring Jim Carrey; Ron Howard, in hopes of finally receiving an Academy Award, will release "A Beautiful Mind," starring Russell Crowe; and Wes Anderson, the eccentric creator of "Rushmore," premieres "The Royal Tenenbaums," starring Gene Hackman, Ben Stiller, Gwyneth Paltrow and ·Luke and Owen Wilson. 
It's a powerful lineup, and one that may eventually be worth waiting for. Even though the first three quarters of 

PhQtos courtesy of New Line Cinema, Columbia and Warner Bros. 
"The Fellowship of the Ring," (top) "Ali" and "Ocean's Eleven" are three of the remaining big studio projects left to be released in 2001. 
2001 have been relatively shallow, quar­ter number four looks to be the year's real treat. And if not, then 2002 is only 90 days away. 
Contact Matt Nania at mnania@nd.edu. ... 

MOVIE REVIEW 
Escapism of 'Serendipity' fits the times 
environment that allows the viewer to 
By LIAM DACEY 
escape.
Scene Movie Critic 
"Serendipity" is especially appropriate in the wake of last month's tragedy
Webster's definition of the word "serendipity" is "an (Chelsom had to cut two scenes featuring aptitude for making fortunate discoveries accidentally." the World Trade Center). The fairy tale This new age philosophy and depiction of how fate plays environment makes it impossible to scoff into people's lives is a refreshing message. For that rea­at the outrageous details of the plot, and 
.....
son, "Serendipity" can't be cast off as another chick flick. instead allows the audience to enjoy the Instead, it tries to incorporate a message that gives hope movie without reserva­to us all. tions or disbelief. John Cusack ("High Fidelity") plays "Serendipity" However, it's not a 
Jonathan, a 20-something New Yorker in great film. While search of love and a spark in his life. He ··~ Cusack's performance is meets a girl named Sara (Kate Beckinsale, out offive shamrocks practically flawless, "Pearl Harbor") and the two go through a Beckinsale's beauty and series of chance encounters until she Director: Peter Chelsom 
British acc-ent can't hide moves away Lo San Francisco. Years later, Starring: John Cusack, Kate her mediocre actingthe two, both about to enter unhappy Beckinsale, Jeremy Piven and skills. marriages, question their lives and use Molly Shannon Also, the film's blatant "fate" to discover one another again. symbolism and humor is Jeremy Piven and Molly Shannon make noteworthy at times childish. In retrospect, it would supporting appearances as John and Sara's friends. They have been better had the humor and the 
never overshadow the performances of the two leads and numerous quintessential romantic come-seem to compliment the philosophy of the film through dy motifs been eliminated, allowing for a deeper plot that lives in us all, then "Serendipity" will not disappoint. their own lives. is not as superficial. In a nutshell: Typical romantic comedy fare, but still 
Director Peter Chelsom creates an appropriate rhythm, "Serendipity" had potential and its somewhat different moderately enjoyable. never moving too slow or too fast. Instead, he conjures up approach towards romance is noteworthy. If the viewer is a fairy tale atmosphere where anything is possible -an looking to escape into a world of fantasy, a world that Contact Liam Dacey at wdacey@nd.edu. 

OBSERVER 

< 
Page 20 
Thursday, October 11, 2001 
CONCERT REVIEW 
U2 kicked off the third leg of their U.S. tour Wednesday night at Notre Dame's Joyce Center. Performing a variety of songs from past and present, the band and its lead singer, Bono, entertained approximately 10,000 screaming fans. 
U2 rocks the JACC 
evening, "Until the End of thr, World." This of the song played all By TIM COLLINS 
was the loudest and hardest song the band tour. Scene Music Critic 
would play all night as Bono played Judas Berno and The Edge betraying The Edge's Jesus, even kissing stood at the tip of theAs the final notes of The Beatles' "All him on the cheek. heart-shaped catwalk You Need Is Love" faded away in The band's classic 1983 track "New as the frontman told the the Joyce Center. the biggest con­Year's Day" was next on the set list and audience that "the cert in Notre Dame's history was about to gave bassist Adam Clayton a moment to entire univPrsc" was get underway. Irish rock band U2 made shine as his memorable bass rhythm filled watching the live web­their way to South Bend to kick off the the Joyce Center. The song seemed to take east of the concert on third leg of their critically acclaimed on a new meaning in the wake of Sept. 11 U2.com. While in the Elevation Tour. And what a kick-off it was, as Bono sang, "Say it's true, it's true. We middle of the crowd, as millions watched around the world. can break through, though torn in two, we they pArformed a stun­The tour is anticipated to be the second · can be one." ning acoustic version of most successful in music history. A sparse "Stuck In A Moment," the band's latest Pop's "Staring at the set, in contrast to the band's high tech Zoo single, received one of the loudest ovations Sun." TV and Popmart tours of the '90s. features of the night. Written after the death of The final four songs a heart-shaped catwalk that extends into Bono's friend. !]\XS lead singer Michael of the main set were a the middle of the audience. This has been Hutchence, the song is an inspirational welcome return to the 
"Sexual Healing." 
a back to basics tour for U2. message of hope and friendship. The final anthems that made U2 the biggest band of "One," the best rock song written in theU2 is a revitalized band after the release verse. sung in a falsetto by The Edge, was the '80s. The Unforgettable Fire's "Bad" last 10 years, was preceded by a lengthyof last year's All That You Can't Leave one of the show's highlights ("And if the tells the story of a heroin addict in the speech by Bono. He talked about changingBehind, and they showed Notre Dame's night runs over, and if the day won't last. band's hometown of Dublin. As Bono 
the world through teaching programs
campus all that a rock 'n' roll show can be And if your way should falter, along the screamed, 'Tm wide awake, I'm not sleep­
(such as ACE). aid to 
as they lifted the spirits of the audience stony pass."). ing," the audience in the impoverished countries,with a mix ofclassic hits and new songs. A new cover of the Marvin Gaye classic Joyce Center was taken and actions of the heroicThis first show of the third leg featured a "What's Going On" premiered next. The to another level that only 
Set List 
fire fighters and policedifferent set list from than the past two song embodies the thoughts of many one band in the world 
October 10, 2001 
men and women of Newlegs. Americans today as Bono sang "Brother, can reach. 
Notre Dame, Joyce Center 
York City. He challenged For the first time this entire tour. brother, there's too many of you dying." The Joshua Tree was the audience to use the"Beautiful Day" began the show. Lead The song is scheduled to be issued as an represented with the 
Set 1: 
bravery to combat the
singer Bono got the crowd going in a fren­all-star single in the spirit of "We Are The final three songs; Beautiful Day poverty. "One" featured zy that would last throughout the two-hour World" at the end of the month. "Where The Streets Have Until the End of the World 
a beautiful extended
performance. The optimism of the opening U2 then performed two of their biggest No Name," "I Still New Year's Day 
verse and is reminder 
song ('"It was a beautiful day. don't let it get hits with "Pride (In the Name of Love}" and Haven't Found What J'm Stuck In a Moment 
that "we're one. but
away") set the tone for an evening filled "Sunday Bloody Sunday." "Pride" could Looking For" and "With What's Going On'? 
we're not the same."
with songs of redemption and hope. have been written in the last month as or Without You." 
Pride (In the Name of Love) A verse of "Peace onThe amazing guitarist The Edge was on Bono sang, "They took your life, but they "Streets" is the best live Sunday Bloody Sunday 
Earth" preceded the
full display during the second song of the r,ould not take your pride." "Sunday Bloody song around and had the New York closing number, "WalkSlmday," one of the finest anti-war songs crowd going crazy. "Still Kitt! 
On." As Bono sang that 
ever written, remains as relevant and Haven't Found" made a Angel of Harlem we've "got to leave itimportant as the day it was written 18 welconrn return in its 
Staring at the Sun behind," he was joined
years ago. second performance of 
13ad 
onstage by members of
Written about "The Big Apple" after the tour. "With or 
Where the Streets llave No 
the NYPD and FDNY.
Bono purchased a house there two years Without You" ended the Name 
Their appeanince
1 Still I laven't Found What
ago, "New York" was trnnsl'ormcd on main sot as the crowd rer.eived the loudest
I'm Looking ForWednesday night into a tribute to thi! rily. sang along, drowning out 
cheers ol' tlH1 night as
With or Without You
One of the least intriguing tracks off All Bono's vocals. Tho song 
the audience saluted tlwThat You Can't Lfiave Br.hind. the song l'oatured an extra verso, heroes of Sept. 11. Bono
Fncore
was given new life and spirit as Berno sang, with Bono making a 
lr.d the m0n on a lapElevation"In New York you can forget. !i)rget how to hoart symbol wilh his around the heart, bel'ore
Mysterious Ways ending the night with a sit still. But in New York, you ran't hrrmk hands ovnr his chest as 
One Peace On Earththe city's will." he sang, "We'll shine like 
refrain of' "hallel uiah,
"Kite" is onf' of the bl'st songs off the lat­stars in the summer 
halleluiah."
Wa.lk Onest album, and it sounds even better live. night, one heart. one U2 left tho stage afterlntroducP,d as a song Bono wrote "about hop,>, one love." 
a two-hour concert that 
my kids," it is a beautil'ul reminder of our The band lert the stage to thunderous 
was the best Notre Dame has seen. They
mortality. Hono even picked up an acoustic applause, which continued until they 
are once again the best band in the world
guitar to strum as he sang, "Did I waste it'? returned for the encore. "Elevation," the 
and havA takAn thAir place alongside the
Not so much I couldn't taste it. Ll[e should song that had opened every show of tour 
greatest rock 'n' roll artists of all time. 
be fragrant, rooftop to tho basement." until Wednesday night, received a strong 
Bono talkrd of changing tbc world, and
The soulful "Angel of Harlem" was the reception from the fans as Bono sang, "I 
U2's music can do just that. Just ask the
only track played from 1988's Rattle and can't sing, but I've got soul." 
8,000 people at the Joyce Center on
Hum. It was the most joyful, upbeat song "Mysterious Ways," from 1991 's Achtung 
Wednesday night.
of the night. As the sPcond verse began, Raby, with it,; funky guitar, sounded much Adam Clayton and drummer Larry Mullen; better than on the album. The song fea­
PETER RICHARDSON/The Observer 
Jr. joined in The Edge's great guitar riff, tured an extended solo by The Edge and a
U2 's Bono performs at the Joyce Contact Tim Collins at
making it only the second full band version snippet of another Marvin Gaye song,
Center on Notre Dame campus collins.87@nd.edu. 



-----·-------­
page 21 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL DIVISION SERIES 
A's top world champs 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
With Mark Mulder's presPnce on thP mrrnnd. the Oakland Athletics showed the poise that was lacking in their [irsl play­off game at Yankee Stadium last vear. 
The young. brash ,\'s now need to do what thev couldn't a year ago: finish off the aging World Series champions. 
Mulder. showing no 
mwves in his lirst postsea­son appearanc:e. held Now York to 01H1 run. and Terronce l.ong honrnred twice to !Pad Oakland to a 5-'.~ win ovr.r thP Y,mkPt:S in the opr,ner of their lirst-ruund AL series. 
"I couldn't believe lrnw focused I was," the 24­vear-old Mulder said. "l ~as in a tun1wl with my catcher. I didn't bear the r,rowd, my teammates or anybody. It wasn't lik,, a regular season game. There was a lot more adrenaline and a lot more emotion." 
Jason Giambi also homered for the A's, who beat Roger Clemens in Game 1 of a best-of-five series for the second straight year. But after losing last yr-ar in five games in a series that startr-d in Oakland. the A's know their work is not done. 
"I hope it turns out dif­ferent," Oakland manager /\rt Howe said. "We learned a valuable lesson last year. Just because we win the firsL gaml' doosn't mean the series is over." 
Game 2 is Thursday with Andv Pettitte flS-10) pitching' for New York against Tim Hudson (18­9). 
"We had high hop0s for this first game," Yankees mauager Joe Torre said. 'We're going to haYe to dig down and even it up 
tomurrnw." 
Tlrnrc-' was t.igh1 sernril.y and an inneased police presence at Yankee Stad iu rn i 11 r rspr)n s e to lnst month's terrorist attacb. .!3ut nothing could keep the SG,697 fans awar as Nrw York began its run for a fourth straight World Series Litle. 
Tl1 is year could be toughest, as Oakland offers the stiffest firsl­round competition for the AL Fast champion Yankees during their run. 
After nearly ending New York's chances last sea­son. the wild card A's used two elements that were missing a year ago: a healthy Mulder and Johnny Damon's speed. 
Mark Mulder held the Yankees' lefties hitless in winning his first post.sea­son start. 
Damon. a disappoint­ment in his first year in Oakland, showed why the A's acquired him in the offseason from Kansas City. He went 4-for-4 with a walk, two stf:als and a run scored. 
But the biggest differ­ence was M.ulcler, who mis:;ed last year's playoffs wilh a bad back before bouncing back with 21 wins this season. 
MuldPr showed compo­sure beyond his years, taking control early. The l'irst two runners of the game reached fur the YankPes -on an error by :;econd baseman Prank Menechino and a single by Derek Jeter_ 
Last year, the young A's were undone by fielding blunders in their first playoff game in New York. But Mulder wasn't fazed, getting Bernie Williams to hit into a doubk play and striking out Tino Martinez. 
"Mark is a V<Ty special pitcher," Damon said. "He's grown up in front of our eves this soason_ HP :;bowed up to pitch tonight in front of a worldwide TV audience." 
Mulder allowed seven hits and struck out five in 6 2-3 innings. The 6-foot­6 left-hander overpow­ered ~ew York's danger­ous leftv bats. Martinez. Paul O'·Neill, and David Justice went 0-for-9 against Mulder and didn't get a ball out of the infield. 
"Mulder did a great job, period. He kept the ball down, kept it off the mid­dle of the plate," Martinez said. 
Glavine shuts down 
Astros, Braves up 2-0 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON 
Tom Glavine and the Atlanta Braves showed that they, loo, know how to throw a shutout in th0 playoffs. 
In a postseason that's begun with 
dominant pi_tching. the team that's been doing it longer than the rest joined the trend Wednesday in a 1-0-vktory over tlw Houston /\stros in Game 2 of the NL first round series. 
Glavine threw eight 

sharp innings and . Glavine John Smoltz pitched the ninth to cap the third shutout in the first four playoff games. This one sends the Braves home needing only one morn win to return to the NLCS after a one­year absence. 
"Yuu hear over and over that the postsriason is about pitching and defense. We've proven that the last cou­ple of days," said Glm,ine, who in1proved to 10-0 in Houston since June 1991. 
The Astros have gotten great pitching this series, too, but poor defense from shortstop Julio Lugo has put them on the brink of dropping to 0-7 all-time in playoff series. 
After making the fielding error that . turned GaITie 1 in Atlanta's favor, Lugo made throwing errors on the first two balls hit to him in Game 2. The second one, which came after a great diving stop, led to Atlanta's only run. 
Now the Astros, who were ousted by the Braves in 1997 and '99, go to Atlanta facing elimination. They've never won such a game in six previous tries. Shane Reynolds will try changing that Friday afternoon when he starts Game 3 against Atlanta's John Burkett. 
The change of scenery might be Houston's best hope for extending the series. 
The Astros had the NL's best road record. winning a franchise-record 49 games, while Atlanta was just 40-41 in Turner Field. becoming the first team to make the playoffs with a losing record at homo.·· 
"I don't feel good about going on the road 0-2. l wouldn't foe! good about staying here 0-2," Houston manager Larry Dierker said. "If we arc able to win two games there, then I feel like we're due to win one here." 
Braves manager Bobby Cox learned before tho game that his sister, Joy fingers, had a brain hemorrhage and was in intensive care. He did not speak with reporters and planned to drive to be with her in Birmingham. Ala.. upon fly:ihg back to Atlanta late Wednesday. 
It was not known whether Cox would be with the Braves for Game 3. 
Glavine, who said he didn't know about Cox's distraction, limited Houston to six hits. striking out three and walk­ing two. Both walks were to Jeff Bagwell. the Astro who had hit him the hardest. 
His toughest jam came in the fifth, when the Astros got within six inches of taking the lead then had men on the corners with one out. 
First was the blast by Brad Ausmus that came so close to being a home run that it ripped the top of the padding just below the yellow stripe across the top of the wall in left field. B.J. Surhoff played the quick carom perfectly. forcing Ausmus to settle for a single and Vinny Castilla, who was on first, to stop at third. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. ar the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid_ 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, includiflg all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right to edir all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
LOOKING FOR A ROOMMATE TO  
SHARE A 2-BDRM APT IN TUR­ 
LOST AND FOUND  TLE CREEK FOR 2ND SEMES­ 
TER  
IF YOU LOST A COWBOY HAT AT  CALL HILLIARY 243-1840 OR  
LAFAYETTE ON FRI, CALL 246­ EMAIL HBURN@ND EDU  
9313  
WANTED  
FOR RENT  
Wanted: Babysitter with own trans- 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM­ portation, for 1-2 children in our  
PUS  home. close to campus.  Flexible  

outgoing, energetic individual need-2 WVU Tix for sale ed to babysit 2 children, 5 and 2, Call Kim Fri. eve. 10/19 and Sat. during the 634-3541 game 10/20. Call 937 294 4857 
Need one student convert for 
WVU~will buy or trade' Katie 4­
FOR SALE 1188 
For sale: '97 Ford Taurus. ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED Excellent condition. Power locks, steering, ale. $6,300 O/B/O AM. -232-2378 1-616-663-8422 P.M. -288-2726 
PERSONAL 
SPRING BREAK Largest selection of Spring Br-eak Destinations, including Cruises! Rep Positions, Free Drinks and Free trips available. www. EpicuRRean.com 1-800-231 -4-FUN 
WANTED: SPRING BREAKERS! Sun Coast Vacations wants to send 
...ACT NOW! Guarantee the best spring break prices! South Padre, Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, Acapulco, Florida & Madrigas. Reps needed. Travel free, earn $$$. Group discount for 6+ 800-838­8203 I www.leisuretours.corn 
$300-$800 Scholarships Available per semester! Looking for a job which lets you work around your school schedule? 
mmmrentals.com  hours. 277-1037  Nikon 6006 Camera Body. Recent  you on Spring Break to Cancun, the  We have several part-time and full- 
email: mmmrentals@aol.com  overhaul by Nikon. $300 Call 631­ ND tickets for sale. Lowest prices.  Bahamas, Jamaica or Mazatlan  time day & evening positions paying  
7818  232-0964.  FOR FREE!  $7-$11/hr.  
STUDENT WORK  To find 01.1I how, call 1-888-777­ We offer the following:  
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and  $14.50 Base-appt.  Northsore Condo, 1428 Marigold  WANTED -ND TICKETS  4642 or email: sales@suncoastva­ •scholarship money- 
Breakfast Inn has space available  way near ND, 1 bdr, 1 bath. LR, DR  289-9280  cations.com  •Flexible Schedules  
for lootball/parent wknds. 5 rooms  Vector Mkt. is filling PT cust.  & kitchen with appliances. 1 car  *Paid vacations/holidays  

with private baths, $80-$115,  svc./sales positions (5-20hrs)  garage. $69,000.  Buying some/ Selling a few extra  Spring Break Insanity!  •optional Saturdays  
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  Flex. around classes. Scholarships.  Call Doris at 254-1772  N.D. Football Tickets.  WWW.INTER-CAMPUS.COM or  •Health/Life/401 (k)  
Toll Road Exit #107. 1-800-418­ Cond. apply  219-289-8048.  call 1-800-327-6013  • Incentives/Raises  
9487  www.workforstudents.com/np call  BMW 94 325i, 4dr. green, loaded, 1  Guaranteed lowest prices! All desti­ *Supervisory/Mg\. Positions  

 M-W 12-5pm  owner, all records, $11,000 289­ Need 2 tix, student or GA to USC  nations! Fifteen years experience!  1-(888) 801-JOBS  
3 br 2 ba ranch parklike yd all appl  282-2357  4082  game  Wanted: Representatives and orga­ jobs@americallcorp.com  
$1200 mo patti grice century 21  Call Noreen at 284-4417.  nizatoins, earn top $$$. build your  Just minutes north of campus  
Jim McDunfee 235-3062  The Coffee Spot Cate on Bendix  Selling Varsity Club time share 1  resume  
near Cleveland Rd.  soph. wk. $9,500  USC: Loyal alum who missed the  Fraternities'Sororities*Clubs*Stude  
Part-time work available. Gorumet  272-1753  lottery needs 6 USC tix. Top Dollar!  SPRING BREAK PARTY! Indulge  nt Groups  
For rent: remodeled 4-bdrm house.  Coffee Shop. Call 273-2931  Ask for Gary at toll free (888) 893­ in FREE Travel, Drinks, Food and  Earn $1,000-$2,000 this semester  
3 blks from NO. Garage avail. 233­ 
 fiity-live gallon fish tank -solid oak  6753 or Gehura@pegrehab.com  Parties with the Best DJs and  with the easy  
2104  Babysitting 1,5,7 yr. olds 12-15  Cabinet -all equipment -presenlly  celebrities in Cancun, Jamaica,  campusfundraiser.com three hour  
hours/wk  setupforsaltwaterfish. $1200  Need 6 w_ Virginia Tickets. Call  Mazatlan and the Bahamas_ Go to  fundraising event. Does not involve  
B&B  flexible hrs 271-0766  new -$300 or best offer_ 631-6955  Tim 634-1754  StudentCity_com, call 1-800-293­ credit card applications.  
2-3 ROOMS HOME GAMES  or after 6pm 272-6414  1443 or email  Fundraising dates are filling quickly,  
2 Ml NOOF  In-home nanny needed to care for  sales@studentcity.com to find out  so call today!  
CAM,PUS24 7-1124  iniant on Monday and Wednesday  Outgoing, energetic individual need  Have 3 pair of use tix. Need Tenn.  more.  Contact campusfundraiser.com at  
afternoons Must have transporta­ to babysit 2 children, 5 and 2, Fri.  Tix. Let's talk.  888 923-3238, or visit www.cam­ 
lion Expenence with infants and  eve. 10/19 and sat. during game  901-332-6735  Spring Break with STS, America's  pusfundraiser.com  
Lodging -Bed and Breakfast, 45  refererices required Contact Dr.  10/20. Call 937 294 4857  #1 Student Tour Operator.  
minutes from Notre Dame. T&R  KnoE)dler: 631-4264 or  Need 1 Tennessee ticket Contact  Promote trips on campus earn cash  Does anyone have any idea why  
INN Between the lakes  aknoedler@nd.edu  Scott at 634-4946  and free trips. lnfo/Reservatrons  Geoff Smitham just happens to be  
PH (616) 244-9084  TICKETS  ---­ 1-800-648-4849 www.ststravel.com  one of the coolest people alive? I'm  
www.innbetweentt1elaKes.com  Fun promotional jobs  U2 TIX 1 FLOOR TICKET CHICA- astounded by his greatness_ Even  
-----­ $10/hr to give away cool new prod- BUY-SELL  GO OCT. 15  But then again, with roornmates like  though he wants to have another  "'  
Nice homes next school year north  ucts  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS  BEST OFFER  Rob and Mark you'd have to be a  man's children.  
of ND. Great area. 2773097  promogirl _com  277-6619 or 273-3911  287-9342  little bit off the wall.  He's still cool. Weird, but cool.  


Page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, October 11, 2001 
NFL 
Glenn returns to Pats 
Associated Press 
FOXBORO.Mass. 
Terry Glenn caught passes Wednesday at his first practice with the New England Patriots in more than two months. Now coach Bill Belichick must decide whether Glenn can do the same in a game. 
Glenn is eligible to play Sunday against San Diego, but New England could use a one­week exemption granted by the NFL and hold him back until the 
following  Sunday  at  
Indianapolis.  
Belichick  indicated  .that  

Glenn's off-field problems wouldn't influence that deci­sion. 
"The main thing I'm looking for is what's on the field. That's what we haven't seen," Belichick said. 
Glenn is awaiting a Dec. 4 hearing on charges of assault and battery and intimidating a witness after a dispute with the mother of his son on May 15. 
On Aug. 3, he was suspended by the NFL for the first four reg­ular-season games for violating its substance-abuse policy. When he learned of the penalty, he left training camp without permission. That absence led to the Patriots decision on Aug. 15 to suspend him for the season. 
That was overturned by an arbitrator, and the four-game suspension ended after last Sunday's 30-10 loss in Miami in which the Patriots had just 12 completions for 86 yards. 
Whether Glenn, fourth in team history in receptions, will get a chance to help the passing game on Sunday depends on his work during the week. The team's practices are closed to the print media. 
"We all understand what the circumstances are, why the events have occurred the way they have and why the time frame has been what it is, but you have to put that all behind you," Belichick said. 
That was tough to do on Wednesday when many ques­tions at his daily news confer­ence were about Glenn. 
"That's what I expected," Belichick said. "What did you think, I was going to come in here and you guys would be asking about San Diego?" 
The Patriots may have pre­pared for Glenn's return this week by releasing Bert Emanuel on Tuesday. That left them with four wide receivers and one roster vacancy. 
Belichick could use that for a third quarterback behind Tom Brady and Damon Huard while Drew Bledsoe continues his recovery from internal bleeding after a hard hit. 
Emanuel, a quarterback at Rice, was the emergency quar­terback the past two games but threw the only pass of his pro career in 1994 as a rookie with Atlanta. 
Belichick hopes he doesn't need a third quarterback against the Chargers. 
"If it comes to that situation, we're going to be in trouble," he said. "With no disrespect to Bert, I think we would have been in trouble if it had come to that the last two games." 
Brady is 1-1 in his only two NFL starts the past two weeks and hasn't completed a regular­season pass to Glenn. But Brady did throw to him in practice last season. 
'Tm pretty comfortable with Terry. I'm just excited to have him out there," Brady said. "He's got real good speed. He's able to get open. He's got quick feet, great hands." 
Whether Glenn can show that with just a week of practice after a 65-day absence remains uncertain. 
"Terry is the one guy that can do it. He's a tremendous ath­lete," strong safety Lawyer Milloy said. "I know just from talking to people throughout the league, other defenses, they're happy when he's not in that lineup." 
San Diego's LaDainian Tomlinson didn't need much time to be successful. He played in just one exhibition game after an extended holdout, then ran for 113 yards and two touch­downs in his NFL debut and now leads the league in rushing. 
"I think they can come back and play in a game in a week. I've seen that before," Belichick said. 
Jaguars tackle chooses surgery 
Associated Press 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. 
Unable to play any longer with a painful shoulder injury. Jacksonville Jaguars left tackle Tony Boselli opted for surgery 
that will side­line him for an indefinite period. 
"It comes to a point where there's a dif­ference between 

playing hurt Boselli and dealing with injury," Boselli said Wednesday. "Certain injuries you play with as long as possi­ble. But when it comes to the point where you're not helping yourself or the team, you have to look at other options." 
Team doctors will perform arthroscopic surgery on Boselli's right shoulder Monday. Boselli said he had set no timetable for his return, although this is widely consid­ered serious surgery with a lengthy rehabilitation process. 
Coach Tom Coughlin said no decision has been made about whether Boselli will go on injured reserve. Still, several teammates spoke as though they had lost the Pro Bowl left tackle for the season. 
"Tony's one of the team lead­ers, he's one of the guys who gets us going," linebacker Kevin Hardy said. "It's going to be a blow not to have him out there." 
The Jaguars also got official notice that receiver R. Jay Soward will be out another six weeks for his second violation of the NFL substance abuse pol­icy. 
Soward, the team's first­round draft pick in 2000, missed the first four games for his first violation. He could have returned this week, but now won't be eligible to return until Nov. 26 -if the Jaguars want him back at all. 
"He obviously is a young man who has outstanding talent, but he also has a cross to bear," Coughlin said. "For him to ever play again, he's got to do some· thing about it." 
While Soward's loss came as no surprise, the seriousness of Boselli's injury sneaked up on the team suddenly. 
Two weeks ago, the Jaguars listed Bosell as questionable on the injury report, and made a game day decision to hold him out of the game against Cleveland. 
Last week, Boselli played in pain against Seattle, and it showed. Seahawks pass rusher Chad Brown beat Boselli for a sack and pushed him around much of the day. 


Thursday, October 11, 2001 The Ob5erver . SPORTS page 23 
-,...,, 
NATIONAL LEAGUE DIVISION SERIES 
Cardinals top Johnson, tie series at I 


Associated Press 
PHOENIX 
The postseason refrain was depressingly familiar to Randy Johnson: no help, no luck, no victory. Johnson extended his major league record for consec­utive playoff losses to seven Wednesday as Woody Williams and the St. Louis Cardinals beat the Arizona Diamondbacks 4-1, tying their NL series at one game each. 
Rookie Albert Pujols hit his first postseason homer, a two­run opposite-field shot in the first inning. 
"If someone is to blame, I guess I am. I gave up three runs," Johnson said. "It seems like I've been in this position behind a microphone in the postseason every year.... I pitched the best I could. It wasn't good enough." 
Johnson was a career-best 21-6 this season. His 372 strikeouts were the third-most 
tt you enter the McCloskey Notre Dame Business Plan CompQtition. 
Cmate anew business idea and compete to win a$20,000 grand prize. 
All full-time ND students and ND alumni are eligible to participate. 
10/19/01 Registration deadline 11/09/01 First-round submission deadline 
All participants who submit first-round entries will 
receive free Business Plan Pro software (retail 
value of S100). For more information. stop by the 
Gigot Center for Entrepreneurial Studies in Room 
234 of the Mendoza College of Business or visit 
our Web site at htljJ://www.nd.edu/~entrep. 
in baseball history, and he led the majors with a 2.49 ERA. 
But the Big Unit fell to 2-7 overall in the playoffs, with his only victories in the 1995 AL division series for Seattle. 
"We didn't score a run untfl he was out of the ballgame, and if you can't score, you can't win," manager Bob Brenly said. "I think it's unfair to point at that record and infer that somehow it's all Randy's doing. He has pitched well enough in the majority of his postseason games to win if we score any runs for him." 
The Cardinals' victory came less than 24 hours after Curt Schilling's three-hit, 1-0 mas­terpiece. The next two in the best-of-five are in St. Louis, beginning with Game 3 Friday night. 
The 35-year-old Williams' allowed one run on four hits in seven-plus innings in his playoff debut. 
"One thing our team knew was the guy who was going to 
be 
take the mound for us has got no fear and is just a dead game competitor," St. Louis manager Tony La Russa said. "So based on what we've seen for two months, we thought he'd give us a chance to win." 
Williams was relieved by left­hander Steve Kline after Craig Counsell led off the eighth with a pinch-hit single. Pinch-hitter Greg Colbrunn singled to make Counsel! the first Diamondback to reach second in the game. 
The runners advanced to sec­
. ond and third on Tony Womack's sacrifice bunt, and Counsell scored when Danny Bautista, pinch-hitting for Steve Finley, grounded out to third. Luis Gonzalez, O-for-8 in the series, ended the rally by grounding out. ''That eighth inning was a nerve-racking inning for proba­bly all of St. Louis," Kline said, "but we got the job done and got out of it." Helped by Jim Edmonds' div­ing catch in the ninth, Kline fin­ished for a save in his first post­season appearance. Miguel Batista, who still will start on Friday, was one of three relievers used by Brenly in the ninth. With one out and runners at first and third, ­pinch-hitter Kerry Robinson hit a one-bouncer to Batista. But the confused pitcher, who probably could have caught the 2, shut down an Arizona team runner at third in a rundown or that had beaten him twice in gone for a double play at sec­three decisions when he was ond, hesitated, and finally with the Padres this season. 
threw to first, pulling Mark "I think after yesterday's Grace off the base. Everyone game we kind of sensed the was safe as the Cardinals' urgency to make sure we did fourth run scored. everything we could to win this 
Williams, 7-1 with a 2.28 ERA game," Williams said. "By no after being acquired by St. means was Randy Johnson hor­Louis from San Diego on Aug. rible today. They have two of 
" Volleyball l' 
Fri. Oct.1Z vs.VIiianova @4 PM 

Who will earn bragging rights? 
DORM WARS 

Dorms will accumulate points throughout the match by contests and trivia questions. Winning dorm receives: 
• Papa John's Pizza Patty, 
* gift certificqtes to Atria Sqlon, local restaurants, qncl more... 
One student willwin a semester of6oo~ an.a anotlier wiffwin a pack.flae of gear 

Slldllll llllr 111111181 
J rue.. Uc.t. I'I v4. ~ @ 2 771k 
the best pitchers I've ever seen and probably ever will see. We're very fortunate to get out of here with a split." 
Consistently getting ahead of hitters, Williams matched his season-high with nine strike­outs and walked one. He held the Diamondbacks hitless until Reggie Sanders' two-out single in the fourth. 
page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, October 11, 2001 
NBA
NCAA FOOTBALL 
NU Pres: workout 
Jordan to play tonight 
Associated Press 
violated rules 
• Bienen supports department's actions after review 
Associated Press 
EVANSTON, ill. 
Northwestern University President Henry Bienen said Tuesday he supports his athletic department's actions in the sum­mer workout death of football player Rashidi Wheeler. 
"We already have suit against
But Bienen said 
changed
the universi­
the school's reported these apparent 
his mind because he did not
ty and sev­
want to disappoint thousands
review of the violations to the NCM eral of its
death shows that 
of fans who had already
and we have self­employees.
the results of the 
bought tickets in Detroit and
The family's 
drills conducted imposed penalties . " 
Miami.
attorneys on
during the team's 
"After I made my first
Tuesday
summer workouts 
announcement earlier today,
Henry Bienen issued a 
were reported to 
I realized that many fans
statement
Northwestern president
•the coaching staff, 
purchased tickets to these 
which he called a secondary violation of NCAA guidelines. 
"We already have reported these apparent violations to the NCAA and we have self-imposed penalties," including dropping six of its allotted football practices, Bienen said in a statement. "We are hopeful that the NCAA will accept these penalties." 
NCAA spokeswoman Jane Jankowski said she did not know of Northwestern's case but it was . very common for a school to report secondary violations, with self-imposed or corrective action. She said the NCAA reviews each case and either accepts the penal­ties or makes other recommenda­tions to the school. 
Wheeler, a 22-year-old senior safety, died Aug. 3 during a work­out in Evanston. Bronchial asth­ma was listed as the cause of death. 
Bienen said it appears that on the day of the workout Wheeler took dietary supplements contain-
WILMINGTON, N.C.
ing the NCAA-banned substance 
Ready or not, Michaelephedrine. Bienen said the 
Jordan will make his
school's review indicates the Washington Wizards debut
coaches and training staff had no 
on Thursday night against
knowledge Wheeler or any other the Detroitplayer took the substance. 
Pistons.
Toxicology tests on Wheeler's A fewbody showed he had the banned hours afterstimulant in his system when he 
he said he
collapsed, but the Cook County 
would notmedical examiner said it had 
play in thenothing to do with his death. 
first two
Wheeler's family has filed a 
exhibition
wrongful death law­

g a m e s , Jordan Jordan 
to get my wind back, my legs only practice once a day dur­underneath me and I think I ing training camp, Jordan can gain more from that than went hard in both practices playing in exhibition games," for the first two days of camp Jordan had said as the last week and was worn out Wizards broke training by the third night. camp. "I have to be very At Collins' behest, Jordan patient because this is a very spent the final six days of 
important time for me not to camp working on condition­try to overdo it and try to go ing in the morning and prac­out and prove too much." ticing with the team in the 
Jordan retired for a second evening. 
t  i  m  e  A  Pistons  
m t  o r h a  e n  "/ didn't want the fans  official said the team sold  
t  h  r  e  e  to be disappointed,  more  19,000  
y e a r s ago, but started  therefore I am altering my original plan and will  tickets in anticipation of Jordan's first  
working  play in Detroit and  preseason  
toward  a  Miami."  g  a  m  e  
return this  Thursday, and  
summer  Miami officials  
by playing  Michael Jordan  said only about  
pickup  Wizards guard  1,000  tickets  

g a m e s 
with NBA 
players. 
His comeback was put in doubt when he broke two ribs during one of those games in June, and he said the injury remained a big reason why he is behind schedule. 
"That set me way back," Jordan said. "Physically, I was running, jumping and everything was on key. I was out eight weeks, then I came back trying to rush back without going through my fit­ness, strength and condition­ing, and that kind of put me behind the 8-ball. 
"Now, I just have to be patient and make sure I'm going through the necessary steps." 
Despite saying he would 
were left for Saturday's game. 
Meanwhile, the Wizards said they will hold a private intra-squad scrimmage at MCI Center next Tuesday for area police, fire, search and rescue, military and medical employee.s. 
"This scrimmage is our way of saying thank you to all those helped the country in our time of need. We as an organization would like to acknowledge the local rescue efforts and let them know that we appreciate them and all of their hard efforts," said Abe Pollin, chairman of Washington Sports and Entertainment. 
"They can come out to MCI Center with their family and !riends and enjoy the game." 
games to see me in my return," Jordan said in a statement released Wednesday by the Wizards. 
"I didn't want the fans to be disappointed, therefore I am altering my original plan and will play in Detroit and Miami," he said. 
Jordan is expected to start both games, but his minutes will be limited, said Wizards spokesman Nick Brown. 
Jordan initially decided not to play after speaking with Wizards coach Doug Collins prior to an open scrimmage Tuesday night. 
"I opted not to play the first two games because physical­ly I'm still working on trying 
said. "I agree with the Evanston paramedics who responded that afternoon and stated in their report that the university trainer 
NOTRE DAME and other personnel 'should be commended for their actions."' 

disputing 
the school's report, including what they called the implication that ephedrine might have played a role in Wheeler's death. 
"We disagree with the findings and opinions of Northwestern, and look forward to having these issues resolved in court," the attorneys said. 
The lawsuit made a number of allegations, including there were not enough experienced trainers on hand, and that staff misdiag­nosed Wheeler's condition. 
Bienen said the school's review showed there were adequate trainers on hand and all acted appropriately. 
"There were six members of the athletic training staff at the Aug. 3 workout, all of whom were trained in CPR and first aid," he 

• fta ..CNlllllll'afl ............. •11ll1111td lite War lloea 
• ¦ NE>cinerna 
• THURSDAY, OCT 1 1 
HES BURGH LIBRARY AUDITORIUM
¦ 
7: .. PM
• 
F"REE ADMISSION 
PREl!!IENTll!:D BY THI!: 01!:PARTMl!:NT CF" F1LM1 T!:LE:.VI!IION ANO THEATRE 
• 
• 
Dont miss themstude~flffl short befon each NDcinema feature! 
• • • • ¦ • • • • ¦ • • ¦ 

Thursday, October 11, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Bonds homer sets pro mark 
Associated Press 
By hitting home run No. 73. Barry Bonds did more than just set a standard for future slug­gers. He broke ol' Joe Bau.man's record. 
Playing for the Roswell Rockets in the long-gone Class C Longhorn League in 1954, Bauman established a profes­sional mark of 72 home runs. 
"I never thought it'd last this long, to be honest," Bauman, 79, said Tuesday from his home in Roswell. N.M. "I was watching on TV when Barry Bonds hit that last one. It didn't bother me or anything. I just thought, 'There goes my record.'" 
Bonds broke Mark McGwire's major league record when he hit his 71st homer Friday. The San Francisco star homered again later that night, then connected for No. 73 Sunday. the final day ofthe regular season. 
"I kind of always thought it would be a left-handed hitter who broke it," Bauman said. "A guy like Ken Griffey Jr.. Lefties have a little extra advantage, I think." 
Instead, it was Bonds. A lefty hitter, the same as Bauman, a 6­foot-5 first baseman. 
In a town fabled for a UFO sighting, Bauman's 72 flying objects created quite a stir. So 
"Ta.1) c\ancing will. n!ver he the ~aroe agam.
-4110 L-omlott 'l'bn~ 
Broadway Theatre League Presentation 
October 18-19, 2001 
For tickets and information Call 234-4044 Toll Free 1-877-315-1234 
Student, senior, and group discounts available tor all performances. 
Morris Performing Arts Center 
~~ .,,=,--,>~>-.• -~~-·.v ~--~~ • 
did his other stats that season. 
Bauman hit .400, had 224 RBI -amazingly, he· did not lead the league in that category -scored 188 runs and walked 150 times. All in only 138 games. 
"It seemed like that ball looked like the size of a cantaloupe the whole summer," he recalled. "That year, it all came together for me." 
Bauman had hit 50 and 53 home runs the previdus two years in the Longhorn League, the next-to-lowest rung in six levels of minor leagues. 
At 32, and having gotten only one at-bat as high as Triple-A. he was near the end of his career when he broke loose in 1954. 
The fence in right field was a more-than-fair 330 feet. His biggest advantage was the high altitude, helping the ball carry. 
Bauman hit 46 homers for Roswell in 1955 and retired dur­ing the 1956 season. Like a lot of ballplayers with big numbers in the minor leagues those days, he never got a. shot in the big leagues. 
The Boston Braves, who owned his contract at one point, tried to send him to Atlanta of the Southern Association and wanted to cut his salary. Having spent four years in the U.S. Navy dur­ing World War II and tired of taking orders, he walked away. 
NFL 
Davis returns to Broncos 
Associated Press 
DENVER 
Terrell Davis' previous comebacks have been any­thing but smooth. Why should 
his latest return be any differ­ent? 
D a v i s drew good­natured jabs from his Denver 

B r o n c o s · Davis teammates Wednesday when he tripped over his feet occasionally during his first practice since undergoing knee surgery four ~eeks ago. 
"He looked good," Broncos coach Mike Shanahan said. "Hopefully there's no set­back. He made a few cuts today. He tripped over the line a couple times because he hasn't been practicing, but besides that he looked pretty good." 
Davis, who has missed 27 
Soward suspended 6 games 
Associated Press 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. 
The NFL suspended Jaguars receiver R. Jay Soward for another six games Wednesday for a second violation of the NFL substance abuse pol­icy. 
Soward just completed a four-game suspen­sion for his first violation, and could have returned to the team this week. He is now eligi­ble to return Nov. 26, the week before the 
631-5882 
2002-03 Academic Year 
BERLIN 
2002-03, Fall '02 and Spring '03 
games due to injury since his 1998 MVP season, had arthroscopic surgery Sept. 20 to remove debris from his right knee. If all goes well, he could return to the lineup in time for Denver's Monday night game at Oakland on Nov. 5. 
'Tm not going to put a tar­get date on it," he said. 'Tm just going to go through this week, evaluate it, and see where I am at the end of this week and go from there. Everything pretty much hinges on practice this week." 
To ease Davis' back into shape, the Broncos used him sparingly Wednesday. He wore a red scout-team jersey and played the role of Seattle running back Shaun Alexander, who ran for 176 yards and two touchdowns in his first game as a starter last week. 
"That's an honor," Alexander said. "That is an honor-and-a-half. I really don't know what to say, other than that is an honor." 
Jaguars play the Green Bay Packers. 
The second-year player has been in trouble since the Jaguars picked him in the first round of the April 2000 draft. 
The Jaguars placed Soward on the reserve list for non.football-related illness before the final game of a disappointing rookie season. 
Coach Tom Coughlin fined Soward numerous times last season for several team violations. At one point, the coach began sending a limo ser­vice to Soward's house to ensure he would make team meetings on time. 
Davis ran for 101 yards in Denver's first game but opted for surgery because of contin­ued swelling in his right knee, which required recon­structive surgery to repair a torn ligament in 1999. 
Without Davis, Mike Anderson has been the starter, with Olandis Gary the backup. The two have com­bined for 381 yards in the last three games. 
"I think we're doing a great job right now," Gary said. "I don't think Coach has a tough decision because I don't think he can go wrong with the decision he makes because we're three quality running backs." 
Also Wednesday, Broncos quarterback Steve Beuerlein had surgery to remove scar tissue in his right elbow. It was the second operation on the elbow in nine months .. Doctors repaired a torn liga­ment in February. 
Shanahan said the surgery went well and Beuerlein could resume throwing in about three months. 
Information Meeting with Professor Hannelore Weber 
Monday, October 15, 2001 118 DeBartolo 
4:30 pm 
Application Deadlines: Innsbruck: Dec.1,2001 Berlin: Dec. 1, 2001 for F '02 
and All Year 2002-03 
Questions??? Weber.l5@nd.edu Applications: www.nd.edu/~intlstud 
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, October 11, 2001 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Taylor looks to 
LSU ready for Kentucky 
By CHUCK CORDER
lead Old Dominion 
By DAVID NOWITZKY 
The Mace & Crown {U-Wire) 
NORFOLK, Va. 
Coach Blaine Taylor sits con­tently in his office overlooking the Old Dominion campus. Outside, streams of students flow under the Maglev train rail. The track stretches across campus toward the construction site of the Ted Constant Convocation Center. 
The ODU administration hopes the train, the convocation center and Taylor are the pieces it needs to rebuild the basketball program after years of mediocre play and lukewarm excitement. After several trips to 
the NCAA "We need to laugh at opportuni­
time in the past 20 years the 
Tigers have begun conference
Tournament, ourselves, [at] the good ties to show 
including an school 
play with three consecutive loss­
and the bad things. But
upset of pride and 
es. 
Villanova in we also need to maintain energy." 
While his team comes into 
Saturday as the favorite, LSU
1995, ODU has a relentless approach to H e 
not made the stresses 
coach Nick Saban is not taking
work and competition."
tournament since that inter-
the Wildcats lightly. 
1997. Game action with 
"Kentucky has good, young 
attendance has Blaine Taylor the student 
players and a good, young, ath­
dropped dramat­body is a 
letic quarterback who can make
Old Dominion head coach
ically. Hence the hiring of Taylor and his new phi­losophy: Fun. 
Taylor admits that he faces "a ready list of challenges to undertake," but also stresses that a fun, upbeat approach to the season is the key to making the Fieldhouse "an exciting place to be." 
"We need to laugh at our­selves, [at] the good and the bad things," said Taylor, for­merly an assistant at Stanford. "But we also need to maintain a relentless, passionate approach to work and competition." 
Junior forward Rasheed Wright likes the new fun philos­ophy. Taylor's system, Wright said, "makes basketball fun, not like a job. It's just a game, and that's how we approach it." 
That said, Taylor's system does entail plenty of work. His tough daily weightlifting and conditioning sessions prove that the players are hard at work. 
The Reveille (U-Wire) 
Wright said he's noticed how 
BATON ROUGE, La. 
the team has responded to the 
Traditionally, football teams 
new system, and he secs it 
schedule their homecoming 
bringing the team together 
games anticipating a victory. Not 
toward the common goal of 
just your run-of-the-mill, nail­
winning. 
biter win. 
"We're really pulling each 
but a 57-0 
other along, and hopefully this 
rout. 
will carry over into the games," 
LSU (2-2, 
Wright said. 
0-2 SEC) 
Taylor hopes his system will 
enters 
enhance his team's play, but he 
Comm ­
also hopes it rejuvenates the 
onwealth 
campus passion for the men's 
Stadium 
program. He points to upcom­
Saturday as 

Saban
ing events, like this week's 
the homJ)­
homecoming festivities, Friday 
c om in g 
afternoon's Tip-Off Luncheon 
opponent of Kentucky (1-4, 0-3) 
with Dick Vitale and that night's 
in an important Southeastern 
Monarch Madness event as 
Conference contest for the 
"trernen­
Tigers. 
d o u s 
A loss would mark just the fifth 
Lorenzen alone had passed for 
nearly 1,600 yards and tossed 11 
touchdo\-\'IlS. 
Under Morris in that same span, Lorenzen has been benched in favor of Boyd. and the two combined have thrown for 1,368 yards and only four scores. 
"Shane is the guy for our . future for the type of offense that · we want to have here," Morris said on Monday. "I still think when we can, and if the right opportunity presents itself, we'll play Jared." 
Against the Tigers last season, Lorenzen threw for 280 yards in a 34-0 loss in Baton Rouge. Certainly, LSU's Achilles heel in 2001 has been its pass defense. 
Florida quarterback Rex Grossman torched the Tigers for 464 yards this past Saturday in a 44-15 Gator win and Tennessee's Casey Oausen topped 300 yards as the Volunteers escaped with a 26-18 victory the weekend before in Knoxville. 
Morris sees the need for his team to throw the ball more but is hesitant because Kentucky does not have the receivers that match the quickness of Florida's Jabar Gaffney, Reche Caldwell or Taylor Jacobs. 
"We need to make ourselves challenge some cornerbacks, but the problem with that is you have to have the speed enough to go by those corners," Morris said. 
Saban's biggest anxiety seems to be in the performance of his players. In the two losses to Tennessee and Florida, respec­tively, the Tigers had lulls where they did not play complete. 
LSU let a 7-6 halftime lead slip away to Tennessee and dug itself into a hole it could not get out of against Florida, yielding 21 first quarter points. 
"We need to not have those kind of spells," Saban said. "We always talk about 60 minutes, and that means that we need to play hard for 60 minutes and get things done the right way." 
The "60-minute" philosophy is a trademark of the Tiger team since Saban replaced Gerry DiNardo practically two years ago. 
Kentucky rank.'i near the bot­tom of almost every statistical category in the SEC on both sides of the ball. Its defense occupies the cellar in rushing, passing, scoring and total defense. 
With a healthy Rohan Davey back at quarterback this Saturday, the Tiger offense will look to break out against the shabby Wildcat defense. 
Saban said the MRI of Davey's knee, which he injured before halftime against Florida. did not show a problem. 
LSU totaled 998 yards in its first two games, but an ineffec­tive running attack over the last two contes1s has made the Tigers a one-dimensional team, thus leading to a couple of defeats 
Saban hoped the Tigers ­coaches, players and himself ­have learned something from the pounding they took at the hands of the Gators and can transmit that experience to the field. 
"I like the fact that we learned things about how ... probably one of the best couple football teams in the country Florida takes care of business, dominates the game from start to finish." he said. "That's what we aspire to be, that's what we want our football team to be and that's what we're working to accomplish and to build." 
"conscious 
subject" in 
the minds of himself, the players and assistants Kenny Gattison, Larry Kristkowiak and Jim Corrigan. Taylor joked that the team's entry in the homecoming parade "will have everyone else looking at second place." He quickly added that the parade only comes after the season's first practice this Saturday, typ­ifying the fun, yet hard-at-work approach. 
With Taylor's energetic sys­tem implemented and all but one home game at the Fieldhouse this season, Taylor hopes the pieces are in place for an exciting, successful sea-plays," Saban said. "I think that if we don't get our mind right about how we do things and how we do it for 60 minutes, then we'll have a problem." 

Kentucky freshman Shane Boyd is the "athletic quarter­back" Saban referenced. With first-year coach Guy Morris tak­ing over the reigns in Bluegrass jWildcats offensive attack has been altered drastically. 
Last year through five games in "Mumme-ball," Jared· 

~~•~rrI.-.~I&~~ LA_TE NIGIIT ~I:a>~I«.-I-Irr ~IJIWUIII~i!!i ~~~IW~i!!i~ ftny Sandwich or Pizza 
2 for 1 
from midnight to 4am 
• "THE CRHSH PHO" 
• Clean 6Comfortable 
• 
Great Food 

• 
Fresh Fruit Smoothies 


IA.eJ..s--t;Ie--r's I--ro:n.wood @ lii!i!!iJ--&;n..,"t;e I&d '98 
Offer expires 10-22-01 
Thursday, October 11, 200 I page 27
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


It's Simple. 
It's cold. People need coats. 
DONATE YOUR OLD COAT to a Project Warmth 
collection box and get 25% offa 
NEW COATat the Bookstore. 
Check out our webpage for details and sponsors at: http://centerforsocialconcems.nd.edu/ProjectWarmth/index.html email: projwarm@nd.edu 
page 28 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, October 11, 2001 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Sheppard, Gafney compete on, off field 
By JEFF DARLINGTON 
Independent Florida Alligator (U-Wire) 
GAINESVILLE. Fla. 
Tied up at 9, Florida corner­back Llto Sheppard walked the basketball to the top of the key and checked it up with wide receiver J a b a r Gaffney. 
It was probably too late for the duo to be engaged in a game ofone­
on-one, but 
Gaffney with just one 
more basket needed to decide a winner, the pair had every reason to finish. 
Fate didn't feel the same way. Before they could call it a night, the lights shut down. leaving everything -including a final decision on who was the better ball player -in the dark. 
"He was going to lose," Sheppard said. "It was my ball." 
Maybe, but there would be no true bragging rights after this game. No final decision on who was the better athlete. Not this time. Not any time. 
For Gaffney and Sheppard, they are starting to get used to the feeling. Seems ever since the pair can remember, trying to determine a winner has been near impossible. 
"We go back and forth in everything from video games to checkers," Sheppard said. UThat's just the way it's always been." 
As teammates on the No. 1 team in the_ nation, competition comes natural. Gaffney is the Gators' No. 1 wide receiver. Sheppard is UF's No. 1 defensive back. Both are third-year Gators. Both line up against each other during every practice. 
With circumstances like that, constant contests can be expect­ed. 
What sets the two apart from the average set of teammates, however, isn't that they are com­petitors. Gaffney and Sheppard are also best friends. And cousins. And former high school teammates. · 
Turns out, their friendship just so happens to revolve around competition. 
Gaffuey and Sheppard first met their sophomore years of high school when Sheppard trans­ferred to Raines High in Jacksonville. Gaffney recalls the first time they ran across each other. 
"The first time I met him we were out there on the track," Gaffney said. "J heard he was kind of fast. so I challenged him to a race. I won. Well, I was win­ning but everybody pulled up with 30 yards left. But I would have won." 
From then on, the two began to build on a relationship that would last beyond their high school football team. However, it wasn't always clear whether or not they would end up playing for the same college. 
During the recruiting process, Sheppard was expected to attend a Division I school like UF. Gaffney, on the other hand, was not put in quite the same spot­light. 
"He was a little underrated in high school," Sheppard said. "He 
NBA 
Knicks' Johnson calls it a career 
Associated Press 
NEWYORK 
The New York Knicks and Larry Johnson finalized a buyout agree­ment Wednesday that ends the 10-year veteran's NBA career. Johnson will receive the remain­ing $28.8 million owed on his con­tract, his agent said. 
Chronic back problems forced Johnson's retirement. He did not report to training camp with the rest of the team, and his locker sta).l has already been given to Shandon Anderson. 
Johnson, who along with Allan Houston had been with the team longer than any player except Charlie Ward, was one of the Knicks' captains. 
"You cannot measure Larry's importance to this team over the past five seasons by just looking at his statistics," Knicks general manager Scott Layden said in announcing the move. 
The 32-year-old forward was drafted by Charlotte out of UNLV in 1991. He played with the Hornets for five years, then was traded to the Knicks for the 1995­96 season. 
He signed a 12-year, $84 million contract after his rookie season that still had three guaranteed was always great at catching the ball and running good routes, but he didn't get the publicity that a lot of the receivers that came out of our high school did." 
Eventually they would decide to attend the same school -a deci­sion both believe has helped build more than just their friend­ship. 
As teammates who play oppos­ing positions, they say going up against each other during prac­tice can sometimes be more of a challenge than the competition they face playing against other teams. 
"I'm going up against the best in practice," Gaffney said. "[Sheppard isl considered one of the top cornerbacks in the nation and going up against him every­day can only make me better." 
That's not to say they don't think they can out play each other. 
"Every little move that he does, I know everything, so none of that stuff is going to work on me," Gaffney said. "He knows a lot of my stuff, but I've got so much stuff, he has no idea what I'm going to do." 
While their relationship on the field has helped them become better players, it has been their bond off the field that has pre­pared them for their futures. 
Over the course of the past two years, Gaffney and Sheppard's loyalty has been tested through several incidents unrelated to football. Since committing to UF, Gaffney had his scholarship pulled his freshman year for allegedly stealing $245 in cash and an $80 watch from the UF locker room during the 1999 high school championship game. 
More recently, the receiver was investigated for battering a teen­ager who stole his motor scooter, but was cleared. 
Sheppard, who has been known to be a positive influence on Gaffney, said that the past two years have been significant learn­ing experiences for both of them. 
"We're not normal, as I would say," Sheppard said. "We can't go out and have fun like every­body else without someone say­ing stuff about us, so we have to hold ourselves down. Maybe I was at fault sometimes for not controlling [Gaffney] by saying something in some situations, but J' m going to be there for him regardless." 
Sheppard did say he has seen a huge turnaround in Gaffney's behavior since the scooter inci­dent. He said a more mature Gaffney thinks before he acts. realizing his future rests in his actions as a college football play­er. 
As for that future, both are reluctant to talk about where they are headed as far as the NFL is concerned. It's too early, they say. They still have too much to prove. 
When the time comes though, Sheppard said he thinks the two will have to make separate deci­sions for once. 
"That will be individual," Sheppard said. "You have to do what's going to be best for you, but we're not concerned about that right now. We'll just see what happens later on." 
Still, the thought of the pair heading to the NFL is unavoid­able. Already, they have proved worthy of being eyed by scouts just five games into the season. 
Saturday against Louisiana State, Gaffney had his 10th career game with more than 100 yards. That's three behind the current all-time UF record of 13 -as a redshirt sophomore. 
Sheppard, named an All­American last year, proved he is capable of making big plays when the Gators need them. While he has yet to have a break­out game this season -he is still without an interception ~ he is expected by coaches and players to turn it on any game now. 
So while they don't play with the notion of leaving college early for the NPL, they will admit one thing. Through all of the practice they have had with each other, there may come a day when they will go up against each other for more than bragging rights. 
Someday, Gaffney and Sheppard likely will wind up on opposing teams playing profes­sional football. When that day comes, they say they will be ready. 
"We were talking about that the other day," Gaffney said. "I asked him if he saw what I did during the Mississippi State game. Then I told him that I'd do that to him, too. I'll give every­body what they want to see. They want to see Lito get beat and I'm going to give it to them." 
Not if Sheppard can help it. 
"He was saying how I wouldn't be able to stick him," Sheppard said. "I was like 'Man your crazy. I'll shut you down.' One day we might be able to have that chance." 
Whether or not a clear winner ever emerges between Gaffney and Sheppard won't matter until then. 
years remaining. The Knicks waived Johnson immediately before his retirement announce­ment. 
"He's getting all his money," said his agent, George Bass. 
In 707 regular-season games, Johnson, a two-time All-Star, averaged 16.2 points. His playoff average was 14.2 points in 66 games, although he was unable to play for the Knicks last May dur­ing the postseason because of his back pain. 
"It's not going to get any better," Bass said. 
The Knicks have applied to the NBA for a medical exception that would allow them to sign a replacement player at a starting salary of as much as $4.53 million. The Knicks received an injury exception last month when center Luc Longley retired but did not use it before it expired on Oct. 1. 
The highlight of Johnson's career with the Knicks came in Game 3 of the 1999 Eastern Conference finals when he made a rare four-point play to lead New York past the Indiana Pacers and into the NBA Finals. 
He missed 14 of New York's final 22 games last season because of back pain after he stopped taking anti-inflammatory pills. 
CLUB 123 
123 NORTH MICHIGAN STREET TWO BLOCKS NORTH OF THE STATE ...DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND HOURS: WEDNESDAY-SATURDAY 7PM-3AM 
Tired ofgoing to the same old place? On a tight budget for entertainment? Want to really have some fun? Why not try the new place? 
Wednesday: $1.00 All Mixed Drinks Thursday: $1 :00 Beer Night 6 Imports & 12 Domestics Karaoke 10PM-2AM Friday &Saturday: Beer: All you can drink $5.00 
WE SUPPORT RESPONSIBLE DRINKING--SOFT DRINKS ARE FREE 
TO DESIGNATED DRIVERS MUST BE 21 TO ENTER WITH PROPER I.D. 
Thursday, October 11, 2001 • The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 29 

As we commemorate the one month anniversary ofthe tragic events ofSeptember 11, 2001, when 370 New York City firefighters and 70 police officers died in the line ofduty, and in prayerful solidarity with their families and loved ones ... 
A special Blue Mass will be celebrated 
at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
University of Notre Dame on Thursday, October 11 , at 5: 15 p.m. in honor of the firefighters and police officers of St. Joseph County and their 
families. 
The President of the University of Notre Dame Father Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. will be the principal celebrant and homilist. 
Firefighters and police officers from New York City will be our guests for this special occasion. 

This special event is sponsored by Campus Ministry Campus Ministry, the Notre Dame Fire Department and Notre Dame Security/Police. 

page 30 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, October 11, 2001 
NHL
Leam·cloublcs main draw 
after breezing t.hrough two
Tennis 
qualifying rounds. Smith 
continued from page 36 and Taborga, ranked 34th -----------~nationallv, defcatrd UNC­
Jagr injures leg, hurts Rangers 
-
Talarico also held a 5-2 first set lead before stum­bling to David Wright or Georgia Tech. 7-5, 6-0. 
ThPre is no lack of con­cern over the early losses from the Notre Dame coaching staff, as Bayliss feels the urgent need for 
someone to step up and take the team tu the nrxt level. 
"'Both of t h e m [Taborga a n d 
Talarico] wrre up in t h e i r matches 
a n d allowed the leads to slip 
a w a v . 
"Hoth ofthem [Taborga and Talarico} were up in their matches and allowed the leads to slip away. You'd think that would be something you'd more likely see from a yoounger player.·· 
Bob Bayliss head coach 
You'd think that would be something you'd more likely sec from a younger playrr," Bayliss said. "As far as our team is concerned, clearly the top part of our lineup has been our weakness, so we need to take some steps to sure those positions up." 
Despite the slow start for the Irish in singles, the dou­
. 
. bles pairing of Taborga and
. 
Smith advanced to the 32­
(. 
~ . 
~ 
i Belles 
.
. continued from page 36 
. 
~ •. other line-up changes due to injury and .illness have affected Saint .\1ary's play.
' . 
Angie Meyers is out for the
' 
. season with a torn ACL and
. 
. the Belles need Bella. After
. 
. sitting through \fonday's
~ 
. practice and missing . 
. 
' 
• ' .. .
. 
. 
.
'. "'­
.I 
Greensboro's Tony Mule and Marcio Torres 8-6 on Tuf'sdav before knor:king of Marcus" Berntson and Mark Roberts of Bosie State by 
the  score  of  8-3  on  
Wednesdav.  
"Since this is such  a  new  

doubles team, it is exciting to see them movf' along like 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Jaromir Jagr had two assists before leaving because of a leg injury as the Washington Capitals beat the New York 
Hangers 5­2 on 
this at one of the pre­miflr tour­
Wednesday naments 
night. in the 
Sergei country," 
Gonchar Bayliss 
had two said. "We 
goals and are look­
P r t e r ing for­
Bondra, ward to 
Sylvain seeing 
Cote and what thry 
Ulf Dahlen also scored as the can do 
Capitals peppered rookie together 
goalie Dan Blackburn early in the 
and often. m a i n 
Jagr, playing his first game in .\1adison Square Garden i11
draw, as well as 
a Capitals sweater. left the 

throughout the SPason." 
Taborga and Talarico, who have not teamed up since they were freshmen in 1998, improve to 5-1 with the two wins. They rontinue play today in the main draw of the event. 
Contact Rachel Biber at biber.l@nd.edu. 
Tuesday's game, as of Wednesday, it looked like Bella would be back on the court. 
"She needed a rest today and hopefully she'll· be ready," Schroeder-Beik said . 
Play gets under way 
tonight at 7 p.m. at Angela Athletic Facility. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 
under the skate of a sliding Blackburn. Cote scored the Caps' third goal at 13:53. Jagr assisted. 
The first period was all bad news for Blackburn, the 18­year•old phenom making his first NHL start. After a strong preseason, Blackburn earned the role of backup to Mikf' Richter. 
Rut twir,e in the chaos of the first period, the rookie lost his stick. 
The first time, Blackburn played without it for several seconds as the Capitals swarmed the net but didn't score. 
The second time, Ulanov gave Blackburn his slick. Ulanov resorted to kir,king the puck to play it. 
But Blackburn, the fourth­youngest playrn to start in goal in the NHL, showed met­tle as he made several acro­batic saves after the f'arly onslaught. 
The Rangers played smarter in the second, holding the Capitals scoreless and tallying twice. 
Zdeno Ciger scored 41 sec­onds into the period and Radek Dvorak followed at 
13:43 to draw the Rangers to 3-2. Dvorak had a wide open net as teammate Manny Malhotra had tumbled into goal, Lying up Capitals goalie Olaf Kolzig. 
Sabres 2, Flyers 1 
Martin Biron made 26 saves and Miroslav Satan scored a short-handed goal in the sec­ond period to lead the Buffalo Sabres to a victory over the 
Philadelphia Flyers. 
The Sabres (2-1-0°1) snapped a five-game, regular­season losing streak against the Flyers. 
Satan gave tlw Sabres a 2-0 lead at 1:i:34 of the second period. scoring his first goal of season on a shot from high in the slot. 
Simon Gagne scorf'd at 
18:01 ofthe third period, Ilic k­ing a shot over Biron's right shoulder as the Flyers (1-1-2­
0) closed within 2-1. 
Biron had a number of key saves in the second rrnriod. coming out to stop Jan Hlavac on a breakaway and blocking two shots from r.lose range by Ruslan FedoLenko. 
Stu Barnes gave the Sabres a 1-0 lead with a power-play goal at :i:32 of thr first when a pass intended for Slava Kozlov deflected off the skatf' of Philadelphia's Eric Jksjardins. 
Barnes extended his scoring streak to three games and. recorded a point in his fourth consecutive contest. 
Less than a mint1te after Barnes· goal, a shot by Curtis Brown was barely stopped by Flyers goaltender Brian Boucher. 
Boucher, who has allowed four goals in two starts, stopped 21 of 23 shots. 
Boucher started in place of Roman Cechmanek, who has given up five goals in two games. Cechmanek last played in Buffalo when the Sabres knocked the Flyers out of the first round of last year's play­offs with a 8-0 shellacking. 
game with 5:21 left in the first period after hooking legs with New York's Igor Ulano\'. 
The Capitals were 3•for-5 on the power play in the first period and finished the game with a 42-27 edge in shots. They added another power­play goal in the third. 
Gonchar scored the Caps' first goal off assists from Jagr and Bondra. 
Bondra took five o[ the Capitals' 17 shots on goal in the first period. 
In 53 games against the 
Rangers, Bondra has 34 goals and 51 points. 
Gonchar added another power-play goal at 10:53 when he fired a long low shot from the right point. It went in 

l . 

THURSDAY NIGHT 
The Alumni-Senior Club presents ... 
LESTER 
Live in concert. 
Doors open at 9. 
And get your costumes ready ... Our Annual Halloween Party is coming soon ­Wednesday, October 31 (Check out www.nd.edu/~asc for more info) 
You must be 21 years old with a valid I.D. to enter. 
Thursday, October 11, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 31 
Irish recover more than fumble 
Its funny how a couple of inches can change the land­scape of an entire season. 
Just ask Kevin Dyson, whose last-second lunge in the 2000 Super Bowl fell only inches short of giving the Tennessee Titans a chance to win the champi­onship. 
· Or ask Stewart Cink, who missed a "gimme" 18-inch putt that would have put him in a playoff for the 2001 U.S. Open Golf Championship 
Or ask R.J. English. 
When the senior wide receiv­er for the Pittsburgh Panthers inexplicably fumbled a third quarter pass only inches short of the Irish goal line, he helped turn the threat of an 0-4 Notre Dame start into a distant mem­ory. 
Only minutes later, Tony Fisher and Carlyle Holiday combined to march 99 yards downfield, leaving Pitt defend­ers in their wake and providing Notre Dame fans with the first real glimpse of the team's big play ability. 
As I watched the game high-

Colin Boylan 
Boylan's 
Banter 
lights later in the evening and saw the fumble and subsequent touchdown replayed over and over, one thought kept reoccur­ring in my mind: That fumble is going to change the season. 
To be sure, an objective bystander might still hold some reservations about this Irish football team. It's true that aside from the aforementioned 99-yarder, the team hasn't had a touchdown drive longer than 52 yards this season, 
It's true that despite _a defense which forced five turnovers, the Irish could only score 24 points. 
And it's true that the team's passing atl.ack hasn't really scared anyone this season. 
But my experience with Notre Dame football has convinced me that there is reason for opti­mism. 
For as long as I've been here. this has always been a Notre Dame team prone to streaks. The 1999 Irish squad began their season at 1-3 before reel­ing off four straight victories, including wins against tough USC and Oklahoma teams. 
The 2000 team relied on mis­take-free football to earn seven consecutive victories and over­come the bitter taste of a 2-2 start. 
See a pattern developing here? 
Could the victory over Pitt merely be the impetus for another insane run of Notre Dame victories? 
If so, this would be a great time for a streak to occur. In addition to the fact that the next game against West Virginia is the famed "parents weekend," the next three Irish contests represent an excellent chance to fatten up on some weak competition. 
Neither West Virginia nor Boston College can hang with the Irish talent wise and USC is going through an identity crisis of its own right now. At this point, it is entirely conceivable that the Irish will sport a 4-3 record heading into their show­down with Tennessee. 
OK, I'm getting ahead of myselt here. 
But lets put things in perspec­tive. If Carlyle Holiday does indeed continue to look like the second coming of Arnaz Battle, if Javin Hunter continues to catch everything that comes his way, if the defense continues to keep the Irish in every game and if Bob Davie can manage to avoid imploding in the face of mass media scrutiny, the Irish can play with anyone in the nation. 
Maybe it just took a victory to remind everyone of that. And a little help from R.J. English. 
Contact Colin Boylan at cboy­lan@nd.edu. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe writer and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 
BASEBALL 
Class of '05 ranked No. I 
Special to the Observer 
The honors keep coming for the Notre Dame baseball program, as Baseball America magazine has rec­ognized the Irish for having the nation's top incoming recruiting class for the 2002 season. 
"Junior-college players 
• always make a strong impact in baseball recruiting, but the freshman classes at Notre Dame and Stanford are so strong, they came out at the top of Baseball America's recruiting rank­ings without the help of juco talent," said Baseball America's college editor John Manuel. 
"The Fighting Irish kept all of their signees, most impor­t"antly two-way talent Matt Macri. The Twins' 17th­round pick, a first-round tal­ent who fell because of his Notre Dame commitment, replaces the lone departed starter from last year's line­up and should handle closer duties behind a pitching staff that will feature at least two freshmen in prominent roles. Righthanders Chris Niesel, a key South Florida product, and Martin Vergara, a New Jersey native stolen away from Rutgers, may have the inside track. But (national) assistant coach of the year Brian O'Connor brought in four other pitchers with sig­nificant upside." 
The top five teams on Baseball America's list included Stanford, Southern California, Clemson and Louisiana State. Collegiate Baseball magazine recently ranked Notre Dame's incom­ing class third, behind USC and LSU. 
Most schools completed the recruiting process early in the summer but the national publications delayed their rankings in order to factor in signees who opted to pursue their professional careers. 
Notre Dame's talented group of newcomers is led by shortstop/pitcher Matt Macri and righthander Chris Niesel-who some consider to be the nation's top incoming freshmen at their respective ~ positions. Righthanders Martin Vergara and Grant Johnson joined Macri by earning Gatorade player-of­the-year honors for their respective states. 



{an acoustic event, too big for print ... coming soon.} 
Tonight! Auditions for the "Best of Acousticafe." Come cast your vote for your favorite performers at tonight's show, LaFortune. 



....... 
~ 
t 
•. 
t ~ 
~ ~ 
.
' 
~ ~ 
~ ­
~ 
~ 
. 
~ 
,• 
~ 
. 
f 
•~ 
•f. 
'.. 
~ ~ 
r. 
•i t ' 
,. 
. .' . 
.
' 
' 
. 
. . . 
. 
. .,
. . 
' . . .
' 
(•. 
~ 
page 32 The Observer . SPORTS 
Football 
continued from page 36 
eamr. to Notre Dame. 
"I reallv like David," Notrn Damr. hr.ad roach Bob Davir. s,lid. "J think he brings a back­ground of' having bP-Pn an cxcellr.nt playPr himsell'. I think that's really important, particularly at positions likr. corner and wide receiver. There's an awful lot of nuances that they can coarh." 
Lockwood just wasn't any normal college player -be played four years for West Viq{inia. concluding his careAr against NotrP Dame in tho 1989 Fiesta Bowl playing for the national championship. 
Although the top-ranked Irish had no problem beating the No. 3 Mountairnwrs 34-21, Lockwood said he still trea­sures the opportunity to play for a national championship 
"I get reminded of that luss ev1:'rv dav," he said. "SomP peopie say that. lhev LP.ase me-. I don't look at it that wav. I look at it as, 'I had an oppor­lllnity'. ~ot many people in this profession can sav that they had the opporlur{ity to play for a national champi­onship." 
Now. only 13 years out of' college. Lockwood still remem­bers the fine details of playing cornerback. And he's still a pretty good player. During a practice before the Michigan State game, Oavie surprised Lockwood by giving him a chanr,e to show off. 
"I had heard so much about 

this guy bAi ng a great player. that guy being a groat playt:'r, I got our whole team linod up on tht> sidclinPs and put David in man-to-man coveragn, bump-and-run·. on [wide rccievcrs coach] Jokr.r Phillips," Davie said. 
Phillips took off down tho field. and then wt. t.o the cor­ner route. 13ut. Lockwood stayed with him and, when thP pass came, knocked it. 
"lie snuffed him out," Davio said. "Just snuffed him out." 
.. I luckf'd oul," 'Lockwood laughed. "Jlp got up thPre, lined up and rnn Lhe rigllL routo. I gw~ssed right. Ile wont easy on me, Im didn't. take mr deep." 
That's where Lockwood earns his respecL -by show­ing he can still play and 
that he can do anything hP asks his players to do. 
"lie brings a relaxed attitudA and he is someone who played the position as well," said cor­nerback Shane Walt.on. "WP respect him t'or his ability. lie knows what he's talking about." 
Come Saturdav, Lockwllod has no question \;here his loy­altif:S will lie. He nearlv won a. national <:hampionship l'or Wost Virginia. He helped recruit a quarter of lhis year's Mountaint>er squad. But now he's coaching for the Irish. 
"It'll be weird." he said. "It's not just me, again, I root for 
,WV every game except this one. This is the only one where I root against the~,." 
Contact Andrew S~ukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 
NESTO LACAYOfThe bserver 
Irish cornerbacks coach David Lockwood will be returning to West Virginia where he formerly played and coached. 
Thursday, October 11, 2001 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Irish to head for Australia 
Special to The Observer 
The Notrn Dame wonrnn's lacrosse team will travel to Australia this .January to play test matches against teams from New South Wales and Western Australia as Lhey prepare for the spring 2002 regular season schP.dulo. 
In Australia. the team will be headquartered al the Notre Dame-Australia cam­pus in Perth. The matches against New South Wales will be played at the Olympic Park in Sydney. During the team's stay in Perth. thev will also have a chance to· visit Hottsrnist Island. 
"One focus of the University is to provide stll<lent.-athletes with opportunities to broaden their experiences. Notre Dame has the highest pcr­centagr. of stud,mts studying abroad of any major universi­ty," said head coach Tracy Coyne. 
"A key goal of this academ­ic year is to embark on our first foreign trip since becom­ing a varsity sport in 1996. lt affords our players with a valuable learning experience. one that will significantlv impact their lives. " · 
Thursday, October 11, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 33 


WOMEN'S INTERHALL BLUE LEAGUE 
Battle of the defense leaves Lewis on top 
By BRIAN LONG and KEN 
CHAMPA 
Sports Writers 
Defense reigned supreme as Lewis defeated McGlinn 2-0 on Tuesday night. 
Absent was the highly touted Chickens offense and the newly-found firepower from McGlinn's Shamrocks. However, both defenses showed up to play, as the sole points of the game came on a safety by the Chicks defensive unit. 
The tone of this defensive battle was set early, after an interception by Lewis on McGlinn's initial drive. After picking off the pass, Lewis captain Caitlin Murray sprint­ed up the sideline towards the endzone. 
While McGlinn players were converging on the ball, Lewis lineman Sheila Dawgs saw her opportunity to spring Murray for the score. As Murray flew up the field, Dawgs threw a blindsided block on a McGlinn player, knocking both women to the ground. 
The referees felt the block was too rough for league play and ejected Dawgs 
The game resumed and so did the defensive clinic. 
Even though the McGlinn defense couldn't put up the points like the Chicks, the 
Shamrocks played the "bend but don't break" strategy to perfection. On three different drives throughout the game, the Lewis offense pushed the ball down to their goal line, only to be stopped short on fourth and goal. 
The McGlinn offense, howev­er, which for the past three games has been close to per­fect, was completely shut down. 
While the Chicks were being stopped on fourth and goal. the Shamrocks were losing yards on drives, and crossed midfield only once during the entire game. 
By completing an undefeated regular season, Lewis is now concentrating on taking home the championship trophy. 
Cavanaugh 13, Howard 12 
Cavanaugh and Howard put on an aerial showcase at Reihle Field, but it was the Chaos which was fortunate enough to come away with a win. 
The game was highlighted by dueling quarterbacks Jill Veselik for Howard (2-3) and Mandy Reimer for the Cavanaugh (3-1-1). 
Reimer, who finished 7 -11 with two touchdowns set the tone for the night, leading the Chaos to the end zone on their first drive. 
A 45-yard pass to receiver 
senior Katie Burdick highlight­ed the drive. Reimer then con­nected with Burdick on the next play for a 15-yard score. 
"The first drive gave us a lot of confidence, it got the whole team really excited," said Burdick 
Burdick was the other offen­sive star for the Chaos, reeling in five receptions, including the touchdown. 
"When we lined up with four receivers, it was a lot easier to get the ball, and Mandy put it right there," said Burdick. 
Howard was not to be out­done as the Ducks marched 75 yards for a score of their own in the first half, led by Veselik. 
"Jill had run the Chicago Marathon on Sunday, and somehow still played amazing tonight/ said senior Duck cap­tain Katie Cawley. 
"We couldn't have played any better. they just played a great game to beat us," said Veselik, who finished the night 10-14 through the air. 
Howard scored on two Veselik touchdown runs, tak­ing the lead 12-7. 
With less than three minutes left though, it was Reimer who had the final say, connecting line. 
on fourth down to Lynn 
A rolling Veselik fired a passOlszowy for the a score that 
to Hosey that barely slipped
put Cavanaugh for good 13-12. 
through her hands, and the 
After a pass interference 
Chaos celebration began.
call, Howard had one fin,al 
"It's tough to walk away
play from the Chaos 10 yard 
from it all, playing these 

' 
Wolfie's 
Pasta, Sandwiches, Service & More ! ! ! 
FREE DELIVERY 
.games was just a great time," said Cawley. 
Contact Brian Long at blong@nd.edu. Contact Ken Champa at kchampa@nd.edu. 

11am till lam (3am on Fri. & Sat.) 
243-9911 
4 inches  8 inches  12 inches  16 inches  2'pmty  
"Veggi"  $1.90  $3.81  $5.24  $6.67  $17.14  
Each Meat or Cheese  48¢  71¢  95¢  $1.19  $3.33  

Help mServe You Better 1 )Please decide before ordering l)Call 243-9911 3)Start with your phone number 4)Name & address next please 5)the best order for listing your sub -size then white or wheat then meats & cheese then vegetables then condiments then ifheated 6)if paying by Debit or Credit Card please give number next 7)Sit back and anxiously anticipate dinner 
Meats 
& Ham American Cheese 
Turkey Clleddarebeese Salami Mozzarella Chcc:se Pepperoni Provolone Cheese Bacon Strips Swiss Cheese RontBeef 
Steak Cbi~Salad Meatballs TuaaSalad 
Italian Sausage 
Chicken Breast 
BBQPork '"Vegf' = any cqmhipgjpp ?(thele toppinp: Lettuai Salt &Joe Pepper Tomato Parmesan Cheele Onions Oregano Green Peppers Mayoonaiae Fresh Mushrooms Low Cal. Mayo Ialapeftos Brown Mustard Cuwni>en Yellow Mustard PickJe Honey Mustard Blade Olives Oil lr/0tt Vmepr Banana Peppers K.etclup 
A-1 Steak Sauce Garlic Spread BBQSauce Cayenne pepper Cheddar Sauce Habenaro Pepper Marinara 
October Special-FREE CHIPS WITH EVERY SUB 
Menu &more available at \VWW.WOLFffiS,CQM 
Page 34 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, October 11, 2001 

MEN'S SOCCER 
BASEBALL 
Irish control their destiny 
Veterans lead 
-
Observer staff report 
In the heart of its schedule, the Irish men's soccer team has an opportunity to grab hold of its playoff destiny with several key Big East matchups looming in the distance. That road to the playoffs begins tonight with a road contest against West Virginia. 
"We've got to claw our way into the Big East Tournament ­that's our main objective," head coach Bobby Clark said. "With a little luck, we can get a run going here, and the playoffs are still a possibility." 
ff there is a time for a run to start. it is with these next two games. Notre Dame faces a West Virginia team that finds itself struggling in the conference standings. The Mountaineers are 1-4 in the Big East and 3-6 over­all, although they have lost to some top-notch opponents such as nationally ranked powers Seton Hall, Rutgers and Connecticut. 
On Sunday, the Irish take on Virginia Tech, playing in it5 first year of Big East soccer. The Hokies have worked to a 7-3 record, but have fallen on hard times in Big East competition, dropping two of three games so far. 
"We've got two very important 
games coming up at Virginia 
Tech and West Virginia," Clark 
.... stated. "If we can do something there, we're suddenly back in business." These two games against opponents near the bottom of the Big East standings should provide the Irish a chance to 
blue to victory 
home run. 
Freshman shortstop Matt Macri (1-for-4) failed to match his game-one output (2-for-4 with a walk) but his namesakes that followed him in the batting order had solid days. Freshman leftfield Matt Edwards went 3-for-4 while batting in the third spot, with a solo home run, an RBI double and three runs scored. Senior rightfielder Matt Bok delivered as well from the cleanup spot. batting 2-for-2 with two walks, an HBI and run scored. 
Senior centerfieldcr Steve Stanley continued his stellar pay as the gold team's leadoff batter, hitting 3-for-5 with a triple. RBI and run scored (he also swiped three bases as the designated baserunner for Edwards). 
Buchmeier allowed live runs {four earned) on nine hits and two walks over five innings, with three strikeouts. He repeatedly avoided the big inning, serving up a groundball in the first (leaving Bok strand­ed at third) and striking out Macri in the second (with Stanley on third) before ending the next three innings on dou­ble plays. 
The blue team turned four double plays in the first six innings, including two started by O'Toole at third base. He could split time with classmate Andrew Bushey at third and catcher next spring. 

Special to The Observer 
The blue team used strong efforts from its veteran players, four double-play balls and some clutch pitching from junior righthander Matt Buchmeier to defeat the gold team, 19-8, in Wednesday's second game of the annual Notre Dame baseball Blue-Gold World Series, at Eck Stadium. 
The series-which saw the gold win Tuesday's game, 7-4­will be decided by Thursday's game (4:30 p.m.. open to the public). with the blue team slated to start junior righthander Ryan Kalita while the gold will counter with yet another freshman righthander, John Axford. 
Notre Dame associate head coach Brian O'Connor's strate­gy of selecting veteran position players for his blue squad paid major dividends on Wednesday, as four regular starters from the 2001 Irish team-sophomore second base­ball Steve Sollmann, senior third baseman Paul O'Toole, junior leftfielder Brian Stavisky move towards eligibility in the these next two games, consider­and sophomore first basemanconference tournament. At this ing three of their final four con­Joe Thaman combined to batpoint, Notre Dame holds eighth ference matchups come against 10-for-16 with four walks, twoplace in the Big East, with the nationally-ranked teams. 
home runs, three doubles, ninetop eight teams moving on to the "I think we've grown game by RBI and 13 runs scored.
tournament in November. Last game," junior Erich Braun Freshman designated hitteryear, the Irish just missed the states. "Our first goal right now Brent Weiss also had a strongtournament. finishing the season is to make the Big East showing for the blue team's 15­in ninth place. Tournament, and then go from hit attack, batting 3-for-5 withIt is especially important for there. We want to make a run a two-run single and a two-runthe Irish to take advantage of here." 
In partner!ihip
AUTOMATION 
wilh lhe 

Mtehigan Economic Development
A L L =y™ 
C01POrallon 
I 
[THE ALLEY] 

Automation Alley, the nation's newest and fastest growing technology cluster, 

offers outrageous advantages. Like diverse job opportunities with the world's leading 
corporations. Innovative thinking that fosters mutual collaboration. An unparalled 
commitment to R&D. The potential to move ahead and across exciting industries. Highly 
competitive salaries. Excellent benefit packages. And a cost-of-living that offers real 
buying power in one of the nation's most appealing settings-Oakland County, Michigan. 
Indicator Automation Alley Route 128 Silicon Valley 
(Oakland County) (Middlesex County) (Santa Clara County) 
Median Housing Price $192,337 $284,609 $463,234 Professional Salaries 
Mechanical Engineer $64,227 $61,217 $68,298 Electrical Engineer $67,410 $64,202 $ 71,550 Computer Programmer $54,184 $51,602 $57,821 Computer Analyst $68,895 $65,617 $ 73,092 Job Growth Since '97 4.0% 5.5% 3.2% Cost of Living Allowance 114.3 121.9 141.7 
Average= 100 
New jobs everyday online @ www.automatlonalley.com 
Interested in internships? Check out our web site! 


Thursday, October 11, 2001 The Observer . TODAY page 35 
---------------------------------------------~­
~  
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 

EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON personal information. Problems 
THIS DAY: Joan Cusack, David with the government or large cor­
Morse, Steve Young, Daryl Hall, 
porations are apparent. Anger Kellie Martin, Luke Perry 
may cause grief; control your Happy Birthday: Recognition temper and be patient. 000 and success will be yours if you 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): 
are open and honest. Showing Spend time alone, reading a good your true colors and pizzazz will 
book or just kicking back. Misun­tum heads. Your numbers: 17, 23, derstandings will cause confu­28, 31, 37, 44 
sion and upset, and family ARIES (March 21-April 19): It squabbles will upset your diges­may seem impossible to relax. A tion. You have to make some seri­
long, quiet walk alone would ous decisions. 0000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):
help you sort out your thoughts. 
Trouble is brewing at home, and 
It's time to stop dreaming. You you're wise to remain neutral. can make money if you go out on a limb, but don't spend much of 
00000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): your own cash in the process. 00 Your mate enjoys being involved 
SAGITTARIUS (NO\( 22-Dec. 21): in your work. Mix business with Hold your ground and refuse to pleasure to make a sweet deal. 
be railroaded into fast-cash Disagreements with in-laws or rel­
schemes or joint ventures. You see red when someone else costsatives will put a damper on your you dearly. People trying to
day. Keep an open mind. 00 GEMINI (May 21-June 20): 
entice you will be untrustworthy. You're in the mood to spend 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19):
money, but don't shop. Leave 
home with minimal funds and 
Your determination and desire to with friends to help foot the bill. succeed will pay off. However, Others can pay your way for a 
don't neglect your family to make a few extra dollars.
change. 0000 CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
Remember your priorities. 000 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):Don't fret. It may be difficult to 
control your emotions, but your 
Postpone important business erratic behavior and mood 
meetings and re-evaluate your swings will confuse others and 
position. Moving too quickly cause tension. Don't take frustra­
may cause you to miss out on an even better offer. Focus on mak­tions out on loved ones. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Travel ing constructive improvements to will be exciting and introduce 
your environment and state of you to interesting people and mind.000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
stimulating conversation. 
It's high time to get busy.
Enhance your appearance to Romance will surface at some ofentice potential partners. Look to 
good friends for honest answers. 
those programs you've been pro­crastinating about. You'll find000 VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): love and be in tip-top shape at Don't say too much or divulge the same time. 000 
FOURTH AND INCHES 

FOXTROT 
WE'RE, GOING To _ A CARt8BEM4· iHEMEI> RESoRT?! 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS . 35 Tom Clancy 57 Perfect subj. substitute
1 Blue ribbon 36 Island whose 58 Most of the kids
9 Follows, as chief port is in a certain kids'advice 
Mah6n game15 Funny bit 
37 In the capacity 59 Crusades locale 16 Least open of 
17 "Way to go!" 38 Stew 
DOWN 18 Snapper 40 Skater's jump 1 Just right 
19 In direct 41 One with 2 Enlightenedopposition encumbered about property
20 Wanes 3 "Our Gang" dog 42 Do not continue
21 Talk of the 4 Level off Gaelic 43 _-American 
5 Hard times 22 Haughty 46 2000 World 
6 J.F.K., e.g. 
response Series venue 7 Pinpoints23 Specks 48 Shrine figure 
8 "House of 26 Western fight 50 Gossip fodder Dracula" site 54 Nodding director C. Kenton
30 Grand 55 Bucolic 9 Movie dog
31 Destiny 56 •_ playing our determiners song" 10 Spritzer ingredient 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 Cause for 
revolution MOD E 12 Row 
Puzzle by M¦nny Nosow¦ky 

AN AR 13 Knighted 31 "Egad!" 44 Side order with 50 Cross Canadian 32 Plane starter? udon 
51 Surveyor's
physician 33 "Phooey!" 45 Lollygagged subjectWilliam 
34 See stars,
14 1998 headline maybe 47 •-. luego!" 52 Isn't caught 8 .;.t.;~ event in India up
36 German 49 Monkeys'23 Problem with address uncles? 53 Position to fill hives 39 Come-hither
24 Ulysses Grant's S t-:-t-=+:N~ birthplace look Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 40 Galena are available by touch-tone phone: 
P I T 25 Hopper 42 Snapper in a 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
I D E S 27 Battery pole 
bowl 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 
P G E S T 28 Massive 
43 Take _ (lose best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 E AS LEANTO 29Assoonas big) years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Obsrrver is a vital sourer of information on prople and rvf'nts in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
DADDY, I Dor-tr HAVE A S11,j&LE SHRED oF -CARIBBEAN WEAR IN MY WAR0Ro8E! 
-MAAMMMMA! 
PAl&E SURE · THAT'S SOUNDS MOM 1)1STRESSED. SCREAMING. 
TOM KEELEY 
BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED RYAN
CUNNINGHAM 
BILL AMEND 
AAAAA! HOW MUCH 
DoN'i CAr-1 SHE DoN'T GIVE SPENO ON 
WAIT 
UP.
HER YoUR BEACH VIS,&.! CLOTHES? 
\ 
.... 

Campus Sports OTHE National Sports
BSERVER 
. Men's Soccer, p. 34 
. Florida Football, p. 28 
. 
Baseball, p. 34 . Jordan, p. 24 

. 
lnterhall, p. 33 . NFL, p.22 

. 
Women's Lacrosse, p. 32 . MLB, p.21,23


PORTS 
.... . Column -Boylan, p. 31 
Thursday, October 11, 2001 
MEN'S TENNIS 
And then there was one 
. Smith only Irish singles player remaining after Taborga, Talarico eliminated 
By RACHEL BIBER Sports Writer 
As the Intercollegiate Tennis Association All­American Championships get underway this week at Stone Mountain, Ga .. the Irish hope to recover from a lackluster premiere. 
Seniors Javier Taborga and Aaron Talarico were both defeated in the qualifying rounds of the singles portion of the tournament earlier this week, while 38th-ranked Casey Smith makes his debut in the main singles portion of the draw today. 
Smith was one of 48 players receiving auto­matic entry into the main singles draw in the hardcourt event, which showcases the top players in NCAA Division I tennis. 
"We are also anxious to follow Casey's progress in the singles competition to see how he stacks up against some of the best players in the nation," head coach Bob Bayliss said. 
While both Taborga and Talarico have been knocked out of the event in singles, Smith will look to provide a bright spot for the Notre Dame squad. 
'Tm disappointed in the fact that [Taborga and Talarico] didn't do better,'! Irish head coach Bob Bayliss said. "I think each of them is capable of better results than happened. Hopefully [Smith] will salvage some pride for us over the weekend." 
The Irish success at the championships last year makes the unfolding e 
vents even more difficult to swallow. In 2000, Taborga not only won a pair of qualify­ing matches to gain entry into the main draw, but he also advanced to the third round by knocking off third-ranked K.J. Hippensteel of Stanford. 
Even though Taborga and Talarico both held leads over their opponents, each lost the momentum and was eventually defeated. Taborga, ranked 76th in the nation in singles, was up 5-2, and two service breaks in the first set against Duke's Mike Yani, before Yani came screaming back to hand Taborga the loss, 7-6, 6-4. 
see TENNIS/page 30 

FOOTBALL 
Lockwood faces divided loyalties 
is my alma mater, and now dencies of certain players -with the Mountaineers as a By ANDREW SOUKUP I'm going to play against something he believes might graduate assistant. He spend Associate Sports Editor them. It's going to be a little help the Irish a little bit. the next five years at funny." "I don't know everything in Delaware and James Madison He played for West Virginia. Lockwood came to Notre the world," he said. "But if coaching tight ends and He coached for West Virginia. Dame after spending the 2000 one -of them asks about a kid, receivers. In 1995, Lockwood 
And now Notre Dame cor­season as West Virginia's sec­I try to answer it." went to Memphis to coach the nerbacks coach David ondary coach. He was inti­Lockwood got into coaching secondary. After a one-year Lockwood is getting ready to mately involved in the recruit­immediately after he finished stint back at West Virginia, he coach against West Virginia. ing process for West Virginia his collegiate career at West 
"It is unusual," he said. "It last year and knows the ten-Virginia. In 1989, he stayed 
see IRISH/page 17 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles look for a boost 
By KATIE McVOY Associate Sports Editor 
Tonight's volleyball game will take place amidst a swirl of activity at Angela Athletic Facility. 
In between Senior Night, intramural championships and a raffle, the Belles will have to be focused enough to beat the Spartans of Manchester. 
Intramural championships and the raffle may provide a distraction, but head coach Julie Schroeder-Biek hopes that at least Senior Night will provide an incentive for a win. 
"I hope [it does]," she said. "It should." 
And the Belles need a win. After dropping a close match to Olivet on Tuesday, Saint Mary's has fallen to 1-8 in the MIM and 3-13 overall. A string of recent losses has left the Belles in need of a boost. 
"We need game confidence," Schroeder-Biek said. " They're all capable of [winning] and they're the ones, [the players] have to make it happen." 
Manchester should provide a good opportunity for a win. The Spartans are 3-17 on the season, with an 0-4 record in HCAC. 
When the two teams faced off last year, Saint Mary's came out with the victory -barely. 
In a five match game, an even match of skills left the Belles on top. 
"It was a tough match," Schroeder-Biek said. "They work hard. I expect this to be a really tough match. They're scrappy." 
Schroeder-Beik also referred to the Comets of Olivet as scrappy on Tuesday. The Belles will need to raise their level of intensity if they want to outplay a team that goes after everything. 
"[During Wednesday's prac­tice] we're going to work on maintaining intensity all the way through," Schroeder-Biek said on Tuesday night. 
In addition to increasing intensity, the Belles will be counting on a secure roster for tonight's game. 
Tuesday night's game got under way without Adrea Bella, who generally plays right side for the Belles. Her illness couple with numerous 
see BELLES/page 30 
-. SMC Volleyball vs. Macnhester, Today, 7 pm. 
OBSERVER 
. Hockey vs. Union College, Tonight, 7 p.m.
SPORTS 
on!!ne classifieds, 
. ND Volleyball vs. Villanova, Friday, 7 p.m.AT AGLANCE . Women's Soccer vs. St. John's, Friday, 7 p.m. http://www.nd.edu/~observer 





