
Afinal win on their home field
RAIN 
Monday 

Notre Dame defeated Navy 34-16 in the last home game of the season 
for the Irish. Look inside for game highlights and analysis. 
NOVEMBER 19,

HIGH 50° 
Irish Insider
LOW 31° 
2001 


The lndeprndent Newspaper Sen,ing Notre Dame and_Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 54 
Fake IDs net charges for ND student 
By JASON McFARLEY 
\:cw, Ediror 
A Notrl' Dame stud<·nt \Viii appear in St. 
.losPph County Stqwrior Court nPxt month to 
('lltPr a pl<'a in ro111wction with charges that 
lw rnanul"arturPd and o,\·1wd f,dsP iclPntifica­
tion. 
Sophomon' Andrmv MurrPn madt\ an initial 
('ourt app(\ara11<0P Friday \.vith counsnl. South 
Bend ;ittorr11•y _Anthony Zappia. .Judgn John 
.\1arnorha ordPrPd l\1urrPn back in court Dnc, 
20 to indirat<' wlwther lw vvill plead guilty to 
the chargns or pr<H'('Pd with a trial. 
.\turren. 20. of' Camp Ifill. Pa.. was arrnsted 
;\lov. 2 art(\r authoriliPs linked him with pos­
sPssion of a phony driver's licnns<' and distri­
bution of l'akP IDs to other NotrP Danrn stu­
dPnts. II<• l'ar('S oil<' folony count of l'oq{Pry, 
Pight misdPnwanor ('ounts of furnishing fals.­
idP 11 tifka tion and a dta tion f'or owning a 'bogus II>. 
MutTPll is out on $1,000 bond. 
Chaq{<'S against him sh\111 from a NotrP 
Danw SPcurity/Polic•• invnstigation triggorc•d 
by an .\ugust incidPnt involving an undera}a{(' 
fomaln Notr<' DamP stud<'nl caught in Albion, 
\Iich., trying to us«-a f'akP ID to buy alcohol, 
according to ('.OUrl n~cords. Tlw \vonurn met 
with NDSP in latP August and IPd officials to 
invPstigatc-morP than a half-dozen otlrnr 
f'<•111ttl<' studPnts who had purchasPd riilsP 
idP11til'icatio11 on campus in th1• spring. 
l:irch woman n•port(•d paying $:i0 rash for 
a counlPrfoit drivi•r's lirPllSP from tlw st.atP 
or \laitw. 
In a SPpt. 1-t-lllPPting lwtw1•t•n i\DSP Sgt. Patrick C:ottn,11 and \lu1T1•n in tlw studPnt's Knott Ila 11 roo rn. \1 urrPn ad rn ittPd lw pro­ducl'd thP \\·omPn·s IDs and sur-r1'rHll'rPd a f'als,• 01w lw had mad,, for hims1•lf. thP rt>cords sho\\'l'd. lfp told C:ottrPll lw had obtairwd information about making thP 
.-.ee rvtURREN/page 4 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

SENIOR SOLIDARITY 





Professor files age-bias suit against ND 
. Jemielity accuses f'ied damagns from the Letters has paid Jemielity less letter to Attridge and the chair chairholder in the English University. than faculty with similar or of a committee charged \.vith department has for more than
University officials 
Jlp has also filed a charge of fewer qualifications and reviewing the Arts and Letters a decade disparaged older fac­of discrimination, discrimination with tlw Equal appfied unfair teaching in-house grant awarding unit. ulty members both privately Employment Opportunity requirements to him. the suit The letter prompted no formal and publicly.

forced retirement 
Commission and the Indiana alleges. Officials have refused review by the University of It also allt1ges that Arts and 
Civil Hights Commission. to remedy the disparitites practices related to Jemielity's Letters Dean ~-tark Boche By JASON McFARLEY Jpmielity's comp.laint stems despite Jemielity's calling the allegations. instructed Chris ~cws Editor t'rom l\Jotre Dame's fostering issues to the attention of A May 1996 letter from VandenBossche, English 
over the past nine years "a deans and department heads Jemielity to English depart­department chair, to increase 
A :10-year University rulture of discrimination since throughout the 1990s. ment faculty objected to the efforts to speed retirement of Pmployee has filed an age-dis­against older professors in its In 1993, Jemielity reported exclusion of older faculty older faculty. nimination lawsuit against English department." the suit to Christopher Fox, then-chair members from serving on a VandeBossche "unfairly and Notn' nanw. claiming officials allegPs. of the English department, committee to review the future capriciously" applied new ser­for yPars havP paid him less Tho suit claims that Notre that his salary was inappropri­of the department. That letter vice course teaching requin~­than young11r prol"Pssors and DanH' creates a hostile work ate. Fox referred Jemielity to led to no University review ments to Jemielity, the suit forcPd him into rPtirPmPnt. <'nvironnwnt for older facultv then-dean of Arts and Letters either. claims. 
Thomas JpmiPlity. an in tlw dPpartment by undP1:­Harry Attridge, who didn't Tlw suit's most shocking Univnrsitv rpfusal to addn•ss English profPssor. fi!Pd s u il paying tlwm and mistrnating acknowledg<' tlw rnat.t4'r until claims are lodg<'d against eur­his concerr;s about discrimina­Ort. :rn in U.S. District Court in tlwm in privatt' and publicly. 1995, according to the suit. r<' n t ;\Jotrt• Dami' managP­tion and ongoing hostility So u th BI' n d . J I' m i<d ity . <> 7 . In partkular. leadership Jemielity in 1994 allegPd mcnt. sPeks back pay and unsp<'ci' within tlw College of Arts and age-related discrimination in a The suit alleges that a senior see SUIT/ page 4 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE iv1onday, November 19, 200 I 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Faking it 
You drink and you have a fake? Oh, wmv, big surprisn -the guy eating lunch next to you probably does too. 
But now it matters becausP the University's 1ww mission includes targnting pPoplc \Vitti 
fakt> IDs and those who  
makP them. Fakes are all over cam­ Maribel Morey  
pus. but \Vith good mason.  
NorbPing 21 can stand in the \Vay on any givPn Friday or Saturday night.  Assistant News Editor  
If bars an~ busted people  
don't stop going to them;  
they just get better IDs.  

Notre Dame stresses a balanced lifestyle sur­rounded by spirituality, academics and sports. 
Domers study hard and try to party hard. but the University is trying its best to tear this away. \Vhen caught with a fake ID, students are being taken to ResLife and questioned until they submit the name of a person who made them. 
People are being fined, givfm community ser­vice' or being banned from going abroad. 
What's the UnivPrsity's goal with this new "war on underage drinking"? Why give a stu­dent a citation for drinking a cup of beer at a tailgate? What is the University trying to prove? Since alcohol does complement a bal­anced lifestyle. the University should not be sponsoring a fear of drinking. Lifo is a constant balancP of moderation. · 
And, by the way, alcohol does not necessarily lead to sex and drugs because students can achieve the latter quite independently. 
llowevcr, the legal drinking age is 21 in the 
U.S. and the University is going to extremes to enforce this law. 
Does HesLife \-Vant Notre Dame students to stay in on the weekends and study some more? Should students just listen to the band and go to Saturday morning lectures before the game? Yes, students can have fun without alcohol. but why should they feel obligated to do so? 
Morn fundamentally, why is the drinking age 21? Until somebody can find a logical answer for this, students are going to drink. As long as people want to go to bars, fake IDs are going to exist. And to have such fakes, there are going to be others making them. There's a law and there's a way to get around it. Even du t.ac dedicates two pages to explain how undergrad­uates can drink on campus. 
HnsUf'e achieves little by citing studm1ts at tailgates -except making overachieving stu­dents fr.el like delinquents !'or a day until they rnalizfl that the only misfortune was getting caught. 
What about those accused of making IDs? With only word of' mouth against her, a friend will lw moving out of her dorm. She will not be able to go abroad ,wxt sPnwster like stw had planned since freshman year. Perhaps in the "outsid1• world" making IDs is a crinw, but in college. it might se1~m as ,wn~ssary as black pants. StudPnts don't usP f'akns to get on planes or to use somebody else's credit cards; it's just to gPt into a bar. J)on't want l'akes floating around the campuses across the country? Then University officials and lcnvmakns should con­sider enforcing rules that they themselv,~s fol­lowed -changP tlw legal drinking age back to 18. 
This year. our birthdays do d!'tl'rmi1w our success at Notrn Damn -wlwth<~r we can havo a balancPd lifostylP or not. 
Jlaribel .Horey may he contacted at mmorey@nd.edu. Vieu•s expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 
The Olm:rver rq;,uds icwlf as a prnlessional publication and strives for the highc~t standard~ of journalism .11 all rimes. \X1e do. however, n:cognizc· rh.H we will mak,· misukrs. Ifwe ha\'l' made a mistake, pk·,1~e conun us ,11 (15 l-4541 ~owe c,rn corn:d our nrnr. 
Tiu: ( lhwrwr \\;SI'S 'i'J'l 2-40001 i, puhli,hc·d .\lond,n· ihrou~h hid.11· t'\ct'pt du1111)! n.1111 .111d \',lc.Hion p<"rin,k The ( )l"crH-r i, ., 111<:111li;:i nf 1h~­r\w1u,11<:d """"· All 1cprodu,tio11 rit;h" .ire· n:wrvnl. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
l\,1onday  Tuesday  Wednesday  Thursday  
. Lecture: "Israel's Quest  . Film: "La Sentincllc," 7  . Thanksgiving: Saint  . Thanksgiving: Notre  
for Peace and Urn \iVar  and 9 p.m., Mongomery  Mary's closed, classes  Damn dosPd, class1!s  
against Terrorism," 4  Theatc>r, LaFortune  resume Nov. 26  resume Nov. 26  
p.m., llesburgh Center.  . Graduate Seminar:  . Dinner: Special  
. Lecture: "Mies now:  "Characterization of  Thanksgiving Buffol.  
Finding the Modern in a  Carbons and Carbon  $12.60/adult. $(1:30/child.  
Post ­ modern World."  Composites," 3:30 p.m..  Noon to 3:30 p.m.. North  
4:30 p.m., Bond llall  DeBartolo  Dining llall  
BEYOND CAMPUS  Compiled from U-Wire reports  

Cornell student arrested for mail fraud 
ITHACA according to allegations detailed in the Police arrested 22-year-old Cornell indictment, include forged and fraudu­
"[Ahmed tried to} defraud

University engineering student Junaid lent inf'ormati,rn regarding his high Ahmed in connection with 13 counts Cornell and obtain admission school transcript. of mail fraud stemming from his own -including the benefits of "The defendant applied to Cornell allegedly forged University applica­University for admission to tlm College
being a Cornell student.., 

tion. of Engineering. Cornell Univnrsity 
"The investigation um1overed allega­received a document entitlnd tions of false documentation and Thomas Walsh 'Secondary School He port,'· vvhi<'h forged documents [in connection with appeared to have bnf'n prnparnd by
Attorney

Ahmed)." said Binghamton Assistant lhisl sncondary school. ... Tim docu­
U.S. Attorney Thomas Walsh. ment \Vas not prnparnd by lhisl sec­"The University essentially conduct­ing to perpetrate an illegal sclwme ondary school," reads a section or tlw 
ed an internal investigation which using mail delivered by the United foderid indict;nent outlining nach of States Postal Service to the University
resulted in \Vhat we allege to be crimi­the 13 charges. nal conduct involving Ahmed's origi­by any private carrier ¼ith foreknowl­The srhPme is Ahmed ·s alleged nal application," 'Naish said. edge. The investigation encompassed involvement to, "defraud Corrwll and Ahmed faces a maximum penalty of members of the FBI and the United to obtain admission, including the five years in prison and a $250,000 Stales Marshall's Service. benefits of being a Cornell student, fine for each of the 13 counts. This case begins with Ahmed's origi­one being able to apply for financial The count of mail fraud is attempt-nal application to the College, which, aid," Walsh said. 
HOWARD UNIVERSITY 


Facilities closed after anthrax scare 
Howard University closed eight mail facilities Monday after traces of anthrax spores were found at its main mailroom over the weekend. The mailroom is the first non-governmental facility to test positive for anthrax after receiving contaminated mail. A sorting machin e from the m a iIro<i m tnste d positi v e f'o r anthrax. It was the only sample out of 54 to yield pos­itive test results. Mail·sorting facilities at the divinity and law schools were also closed, but later reopened aftor testing finished. However, the main mailroom was closed at \Vednesday's press time. It will remain closed until testing is complete, of'ficials said. Students were surprised the potentially deadly bacteria hit so close to campus, despite the discovery of anthrax in 11 congressional offices this week. "This is kind of unsettling that anthrax just kenps popping up all over tlw place and no one knows about it until someone finds it," said Anthony Gisby. Many students ques­timwd \lw length of' time tlw spores have lived in the mailroom. 
TEXAS A&M 


Families to hold personal vigil 
The crowd of' Tf~xas A&M University studnnts gath­ered on the Polo Fields at 2:42 a.m. Nov. 18. 2000. was not much different than the Aggies who stood ttwrn a year before. The diffnrencn in 2000 was that tlw Aggi1! family was 12 members short. They stood in tlw mud and cold rain, a sea of Bonfire pots held over lrnarts. looking through to the cnntral flanw to nwmorializP tlw victims of tlrn 19')9 Aggie Bontirn collapsP. Though tlw Univf~rsity will make no ol'ficial obs,1rvation this Sunday of the secon.d anniv1~rsary of' Bonfirn·s rollapst\, the families and l'ri(~nds of tlw 12 Aggios killPd and 27 injured whnn the three-tiered stack foll to Uw ground said they cannot and will not 1wPr f'orgd. Tlw l'arniliPs said tlwy will have tlwir O\Vll memorials. .JanicP KPrle<' said this week has been orw of' tlw hardnst sincP tlw collapse."You'll cry a lot. and it's vPry 1•motional," slw said. "Any annivPrsary of death is hard." Tlw KPrlPPS will be at tlw site of the l <J<J9 Bonfirp at 2:42 a.m. Sunday morning with candles and prayt>rs. Otlwr fami­lies will be thorn. offoring support. 

LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Da) South Bend Forecast 

AtcuWeather fore-:asl for daytime rnnditions and high 1t:mpcra1ures 
i / 
' 

TY~~~~; 


Wedne~day· 

Thursd~y_, •• •e •
© 2001 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY Pressure:


Friday; 
® © 
...... 
High low Sh_?'"_~_"._~ T•_st_or_m_s_F_lu_rri_es_S_n_ow__ Ice Sunny Pt. Cloud!__ _l:l_oudy


Satufday 
,a Assoc,ated Press 
Atlanta 72 46 las Vegas 87 61 Portland 52 30 Baltimore 62 43 Memphis 70 48 Sacramento 73 42 57 Milwaukee 48 21 Louis 49

·,~.\c:£;;\<~~~-_'~[) i~.0 ~~~ ·l) -~ ~I \ Boston 39 St 61 
Showers T·storms Ram Ft~r;ies S~;; Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Chicago 48 31 New York 50 32 Tampa 77 57 Via Assoc,ared Press Graph,csNel Houston 67 42 Philadelphia 62 46 Washington DC 67 47 


Monday, November 19, 2001 The Observer . NEWS page 3 

UP YOU GO 
Poll responses back smallpox vaccinations 
I ___ . 
cious letter to S<rn. Patrick 
Associated Press 
Leahy, D-Vt., may revive pub­lic conc1)rn. 
WASHINGTON People are evenly split 
Three-fifths of Americans about whether the anthrax say they would want a small­a tta c ks a r<' part o f a lo n g­pox vaccination if it were term campaign. widely available, according to The number who think tlw an Associated Press poll that anthrax attacks am likely. to suggests continued nervous­continue in the coming ness about bioterrorism. months is 45 percent, down 
About half' of' the respon­only slightly from the height dents say they are concerned of the anthrax scare in mid­about the threat of a smallpox Octobcr, according to the poll attack and think last month's of 1.003 people taken Nov. 9­anthrax attacks are the begin­13. ThP. poll, conductPd before ning of an extended cam­the discovery of tlHi Leahy let­paign, according to the poll ter, has an error margin of conducted for The AP by ICR plus or minus 3 percentage of Media, Pa. points. 
Some of those still con­Young adults between 18 cerned about bioterrorism say and 34 were twice as likely as they generally are nervous those over 65 to think the because they do not know anthrax attacks are the begin­what's com-ning of a long ing next. terror cam­
"To me. ..I am worried about it. paign. 
now, any-"I am wor­
Watching it on the news
thing can ried about it," h appen, " over and over -it scares said 18-year­
said Michelle me. I tend to stay more o l d Veronica Hunt, a 50-Gallo of San
with ,ny f amity these 
y ear -old Bernardino, 
retail clerk days. It's pretty much all C a l i f . from Boulder the stujJthat's going on ... "\Vatching it 
City, Nev. "If on the news
anthrax, plane crashes. ,.
it's out there, over and over it could hap­-it scares pen. I try not Veronica Gallo me. I tend to to worry stay more
poll respondent
about it." with my fami-
The U.S. ly these days. government is stockpiling the It's pretty mucl1 all the sti1ff smallpox vaccine in case of that's going on ... anthrax, terrorist attacks. but has no plane crashes." plans to routinely vaccinate Some of the continuing con­the general public. Smallpox cerns about anthrax may have vaccine is made with a live to do with bad information. A virus related to smallpox, so it quarter of the people in the can cause some very serious poll erroneously think anthrax side effects. Experts estimate is contagious. that if every American were Albert Sturms, a 65-year-old vaccinated against smallpox, retiree from Montcalm, W.Va., some 400 people would die said he got a smallpox vacci­from the vaccine. nation when he was a child, 
A majority of Americans but does not know if it still indicate they would get the protects him. Scientists vaccine if it were available, believe smallpox vaccinations even after they are informed that were given until the early of the possible risks. 1970s probably will not pro­
"Smallpox is incredibly con­vide protection if smallpox re­

O'Hare: 8a.m., Noon, 2p.m. 
tagious and they only have 15 emerges. million vaccinations," said 28-Sturms believes the threat
Midway: 10 a.m. 
year-old Bradford Rubinoff of of bioterror remains. Tucson, Ariz. "If people would "Afghanistan is not the only use anthrax against us, who's country that is involved in this to say they wouldn't use terrorism from what I under­smallpox?" stand," said Sturms. "There's 
Asked if he would want to plenty of people out there who get the smallpox vaccination still want to do the United even though it carries some States harm."
• t 

health risks, Rubinoff said, About a fourth of the public' 
"Absolutely." say the handling of the 

\~,; ~ ~ ' 
Among the risks: About 3 in anthrax scare gave them evf'ry 1·million people vacci­more confidence in the gov­nated would get encephalitis, ernment's ability to protect

·':"/: 
which can cause permanent citizens from future terrorist
I . 
J 
brain damage or death. attacks. Almost that many say Another 250 would get a it gave them less confidence

;; smallpox-like rash that also -with Democrats twice as
f 

Who: You and ell your friends 
can be fatal if not properly likely as Hepublicans to say treated. they had lost confidence. People with weak immune About half said it has not

What: Bum ride directly from the 
systems -patients who have affected their confidence
Snite Museum lo Chicago Airports 

AIDS. cancer or organ trans­level. plants or are taking high-dose "My confidence was not When: Wednesday November 21, 2001 
steroids -are most at risk affected," said 26-year-old for the side effects. as arc Christine Jarrell Hatke, a col­people with the skin condition lege student from Ferndale,

Where: Bus meets al Snite Museum eczema. Mich., near Detroit. "I was not
15 minutes before time listed 
The anthrax attacks through surprised they \\'ere slow to the mail, which rattled the react. ... It's new and the gov­

Why: To catch flights home for Thanksgiving 
nation throughout October, ernment isn't perfect. I don't had subsided a bit. But last think it can protect us from week's discovery of a suspi-everything." 




page 4 The Observer . NEWS Monday, November 19, 200I 

Suit 
continued from page 1 
within the English department forced Jemielity to reqU(~st retirement at the end of the 2002-2003 academic year. three vears before he had wanted to leave, according to the suit. · If a jury determines that he was forced into retirement earlier than lw planned, Jemiclity could be eligible to receive front pay in lieu of reinstati~ment. 
·Notre Dame spokesman Dennis Moore said Sunday he had no knm•,ledge ol' the case and couldn't comment on it. 
Not sincP Joe Moore's dismissal has the University faced a high-profile age-discrimination case. In 1998, a federal court awarded Moore. a l'ormer offensive line coach for the football team, about $86,000. 
In summer of 1998. the University settled out of court a gen­dPr-bias suit by a female business professor. 
Contact Jason McFarley at rncfarley.l@nd.edu 
Morren 
continued from page 1 
licenses on  the Internet and  
had used  a  laminalor to  cre­ 
ate them.  

The misdemeanor counts Murren faces charge that he distributed the IDs with intent to violatP state liquor law. Furnishing false identifica­tion, a Class C count, carries a maximum penalty of 60 days in jail and as much as a $500 
n,w. 
l\.lore serious for Murren is the Class C felony forgery count. It carries up to a four­y<>ar sentence and $10,000 fine. 
But l'vlarnocha, the chief superior court judge, could let :\1urren walk on that charge. 
rvtarnocha in a Nov. 7 letter to County Prosecutor Chris Toth expressf~d concern about Deputy Prosecutor David Szumski's pursuit of the 
in late October. The judge found no probable cause for the felony charge and rejected that count. 
The deputy prosecutor re­submitted the case Oct. 31 to Judge William Means, who signed off on all the counts and issued the warrant for Murren's arrest. 
"The re-submission to Judge Means is a direct violation of our local rule," Marnocha wrote. 
The ruh'l is seemingly explic­it: "In the event that any charging instrument, SP.arch warrant, subpoena or other docunrnnt, the issuance of which requires the finding of probable caus,~. shall be sub­mitted to a judge and that judge finds that no probable cause exists ... any re-submis­sion shall hr made to the orig­inal judge, unless the original judge agrees that it may be submitted to another judge
.. 

Marnocha told Toth he 
VATICAN CITY 
Pope invites religions to Assisi 
Associated Press 

VATICAN CITY 
Pope John Paul II. con­cerned about tlw continued impact on humanity of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. invited represen­t·ativcs of t h e world's religions to come to Assisi, Italy on Jan. 24 for a daylong prayer for peace. 
In his weekly appearance Sunday at St. Peter's Square, the pontiff invited leaders of all faiths, but particularly Christians and Muslims, to "proclaim before the world that religion should never become a motive for conflict, hatred and violenet~." 
"In these historic moments. humanity needs to see ges­tures of peace and hear \Vords of hope," the pope said. 
Assisi, a pilgrimage hilltown in central Italy, is the birth­place of St. Francis, the founder of' the Homan Catholic Franciscan order. The pope has twice before invited lead­ers of various faiths to gather in Assisi to pray for peace. 
During his appearance. the 81-year-old pontiff also asked Catholics to fast on Dec. 14 

and pray to God for justice and an end to the many con­flicts in the world. llc noted that the date coincides with the holy month of' Ramadan, the monthlong holiday of fast­ing and purification for Muslims. ­
The pope has spoken out several times about the Sept. 11 attacks and has decried terrorism in the past several weeks. But while the Vatican has ackno\vl­edgcd the right 
of legitimate "In these historic have pre­defense against vious I y
moments, humanity
terrorists, it has dismissed
needs to see
made clear that r(~ports of any "just war" gestures ofpeace and particular needs to avoid threats
· hear words ofhope ... 
harming inno­against cent people. thl! pope. The pope, John Paull II and did so 
appearing in relatively good form, spoke to a crowd of several hundred in St. Peter's Square on a drizzly Sunday after celebrating Mass at a newly built parish on tlrn outskirts of Home. 
In his homily at the Mass, the pontiff n~callcd the words of Jesus, which he said gave believers faith that their lives. "despite dramatic upheavals, remain connected to the hands of God." 
As he left the parish mr his way back to St. Peter's, the pope waved good-bye ,vith his cane to the delight of the crowd. 
Ilis visit came after a fonrn\r CIA countcrtcrrorism chief', Vincent Cannistraro, warned in an intc rv iew pu blislrnd Sun day in th(! daily La Hepubblica that the pope remained a target of terror­ists, and suggestnd that they might strike during the holi­day season that starts this week, with the American holi­day of Thanksgiving. and Christmas on Dec. 25. 
Vatican 
officials 
pope a g a i n 
Sunday. 
T h e 
pope first proclaimed a day of 
peace on Oct. 27, 1986 and 
invited representatives of the 
world's religions to Assisi. lie 
brought togctlwr Christian. 
:lvtuslim and Je\evish IPadPrs in 
J\ssisi on Jan. 9-10, l 99:~ to 
pray for an nnd to the Bosnian 
war. 
Some of the town ·s ranrnd 
basilicas. including tlrn basili­
ca of St. Francis. \\'Ori' badly 
damaged following two earth­
quakes that jolted central Italy 
on Sept. 26, 1997. Tlwy have 
since reopened after major 
restoration projects. 

forgery count against Murrnn. 
Prosecution of Murn~n for forgery violates the superior court rule aimed at ending "forum shopping," Marnocha told Toth in the letter. The recently instated rule is meant to bar lawyers from "shop­ping" for judges to hear cases. 
Szumski submitted the case for Marnocha's consideration 
would deal with the alleged rule violation at one of Murrnn's future court dates. 
The judge urged Toth to ensure that his staff was aware of the rule so that simi­lar problems wouldn't occur in the future. 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley.1@nd.edu 
habitat for humanity general meeting tonight, nov. 19 8 pm at the CSC 



for new and current members, help kick off our next fundraiser! if you can't make it, visit www.nd.edu/---habitat 


ATI 


Monday November 19, 2001 COMPII.ED FHO!\1 THE 0BSERVEH \VIBE SEHVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Sailors missing after tanker sinks: 
Tlw U.S. Navy was snarr.hing Sunday for l\VO 
U.S. sailors missing in tlw PPrsian Cull' aftnr hoarding a rkk,•ty tankPr dnenwd to lw smug­gling Iraqi oil. Six otlwr American sailors \\'<'rP n•scuPCI af'tPr tlw UnitNI Arab EmiratPs­llaggPd tank1T sank at about 4:45 a.m. local tinw Sunday in tlw nortlwrn PPrsian Gulf 
IMF pledges debt relief: Conn~rrwd 
that tlw Pconomil' l'allout f'rom tlw S<'pt. 11 tPtTorist attarks has hit tlw poornst countriPs tlw llardnst. \Norld Bank and International \lorwtary Fund officials nwt Sunday to dis­niss clt·bt n>liPI' and ways to rPducP poverty in tlw dl'\'Ploping world. Tlw nwPting came a day al'tPr fina1H"I' ministPrs from 11) countries and tlw l~unqwan Union plPdged to hPlp rnuntriPs at risk. including Al'ghanistan. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Meteor showers dazzle: Thousands of' shooting stars prnvid('(I a dazzling light show Sunday that amazPd VPtnran and 110\'icn stargazPrs alikP as tlw L<~onid nwtnor shmv rnadP tlw moonl1•ss sky app1\ar to rain light. At tlw pPak of tlw Parly morning show1•r. as many as 1 .2:iO nwtPors pPr hour strPakPd ovPrlwad. acrording to NASA 1•stimat('S. 
Protesters march at Army school: 
About 1).000 dPmonstrators mardwd tmvard Fort BPnning Sunday to prot.-sl an Army srhool tlwy blanw for al!PgNI human rights violations. \\'ith tlw ·nation at war against ter­rorists and Anwricans riding a patriotic vvavn. orga11iz1•rs said it was morl' important than 1•v1•r lo protnst tlw form1•r St'hool or tlw /\nwricas. which usPd to b<· a training centnr for Latin 1\111Prica11 soldinrs. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
State parks opened to hunting: 
Indiana Du1ws State Park will be closed to the public on Monday and Tuesday as 95 hunl!ffs participau• in a controv1\rsial hunt meant to thin tlw dPer population. For the fourth con­St)ClllivP year. tlw Indiana l)pµartnwnt of Natural BnsourcPs is allowing hunt<'rs into tlw rwrtlwrn Indiana park and 12 olhnr statP parks for a rnntrolll•d dPtff lwrd rnduction. 
Sobriety roadblocks banned: For 
ttw sPro rHI slra igh t year. law-P nf'o re,\ nw n t agPnciPs in Indiana arP without onn of th(~ir l'avorit1• tools for battling drunkPn driving during tlw holiday sPason: roadblocks. Tlw Indiana Court ol' Appnals rulPd last year that sobriPty dwckpoints unconstitutional. 
Market Watch November 16 
Dow Jones  9,866.99  -5.40  
Up: 1.685  Same: 21 l  Composite Volume: I .338.032.000  
AMEX:  798.70  +1.98  

NASDAQ: . 1,898.58 -1.99 NYSE: 578.83 -0.96. S&P 500: I, 138.65 -3.59 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ-100 INDEX (QQQ) -0.28 -0.11 39.37 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSC0)-0.60 -0.12 20.02 JDS UNIPHASE (JDSU) +9.43 +1.00 11.60 PALM INC (PALM) +18.28 +0.53 3.43 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -1.62 -0.24 14.55 

Northern Alliance fighters sit atop an abandoned Soviet-made tank in front of Shindand military airport. The I Alliance was gaining ground south of Kabul, limiting the areas of refuge to Osama bin Laden. 
Bin Laden running out of room 
l ! 
I 
from Taliban control," Powell said. "I don't think there's any country in the region that would lw anx­ious to give him guest p riv ih~ ges if trn sh owed up." 
Wolfowitz d(~scribed bin Laden as "in very great danger" of being killed or captured. 
"This is a man on the run who's doing his best to hide," Wolf"nwitz said on CBS's "Face the Nation." 
Added Hice: "vVe're beginning to narrow his possibilities for hiding." 
U.S. bombing contini.1ed Sunday in the Kandahar area in southern Afghanistan and the 
Kunduz area in thn north. The Pentagon also report­ed that 7 5 strike aircraft participated in Saturday's attacks in six target areas near Kabul, the capital. 
Keeping with its usual practice of reporting details only from the pre­vious day's attacks, the Pentagon said tunnels and caves used by Taliban and al-Qaida leaders were among the targets. 
Powr.11 said the CIA has been doing "some rather splendid work with respect to our activities in 
Afghanistan,  working  
alongside  our  military  
forces that are  insid,~ in  
Afghanistan."  


Anthrax letter may harbor clues 
Associa,ed Press 
WASIIINGTON 

Osama bin Laden and his al-Qaida network arc on the run in Afghanistan and their Taliban support­ers are in disarray, but llw Anwrican-led military campaign to crush them is far fn,m over, senior ad m in is tra tion offi ci a Is said Sunday. 
Secretary of State Colin Powell and • Deputy Defense Secretarv Paul Wolfmvitz, in sepan~te talk show int<>rviews, both said they havc no reason to believe bin Laden has escaped Afghanistan. 
"I have seen no intelli­
gence or information to suggest" he has left, Powell said on ABC's "This Week." 
The Taliban's envoy to Pakistan said Saturday that bin Laden had left Afghanistan, but that has not been substantiated. Later, the diplomat said he meant only that bin Laden was outside areas under Taliban control. 
Powell. \Volfowitz and national security adviser Condoleczza Hice all sug­gested bin Laden's room to maneuver is shrinking, his options narrowing. 
"It's getting harder for him to hide as more and . more territory is removed 
Associated Press 
WASJIINGTON 

Federal investigators held out hope today that their discovery of what appears to be ari anthrax tainted let­ter addressed to Senator Patrick J. Leahy might offer fresh clues to the identity of the sender. 
PrPliminary tests on the letter, which investigators found on Friday night in a barrel of quarantirrnd mail. showed that it contained anthrax. Inv•'stigators said more conclusive testing would be done this we<~kend at an Army bioterrorism laboratory. 
The letter to Senator Leahy, the Vermont Democrat who is chairman of the Judiciary Committee, bears the sarru~ handwriting and Trenton postmark as three other anthrax­tainted letters that had been sent to Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, th,~ Senate majority leader; Tom Brokaw of NBC News; and The New York Post. 
But unlike the other letters, the Leahy letter was not handled by its intended recipients before it was seized by Urn F.B.I., which means there is a greater chance that fornn­s ic evidence, like fingerprints or 
DNA, might have been µrcsPrvcd. 
At a news conferf~nc,~ at which he 
held up a photocopy of the envelope, 
Senator Leahy said, "It's kind of 
chilling when you sec your name on 
something like this." 
Everything on the envelope except Senator Leahy's name and address was similar to the Daschle letter. including the childlike block hand­writing and the samn fictitious ·return address: '4th Grade. Creendale School, Franklin Park, NJ.' F.B.I. analysts who suspect that 
tlrn culprit is probably not a foreign terrorist. 


page 6 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, November 19, 2001 
ISRAEL 

Sharon insists on calm before talks 
Associated Press 

.JEHUSALEM 
On tlw eve of a major U.S. policy stat,~nwnt. Israeli Prinw MinistPr Ariel Sharon rPl'used to Pas!' demaiids for a wPek without violPno! as a condi­tion for pnacc talks with Palestinians. 
Violence contintwd Sunday. :\ bomb went off nPar the King David Hotel in Jerusalem while police tried to defuse it. No one was hurt bv the d1wice. which exploded ·short­ly before Sharon mPt at the hotel with a European diplo­matic delegation. Police said it appar,nntly was planted by Palestinians. 
In tlw Gaza Strip, lsnwli tanks and troops movPd about 200 yards into PalPstinian tf'r­ritory near the town of B.eit Lahiva and killPd two armed Pal<;stinians heading for a nearby Jewish settlement, tlrn militai·y said. In addition, two· Palestinians, ages 17 and 70, diPd of wounds suffered in earlier clashes with Israeli forces. 
Sharon noted that the Unitnd StatPs agreed to Israel's condition of "seven days of quiet and no less" before a June cease-fire plan negotiated by CIA director George Tenet can be enforced. 
The seven days must be fol­lowed by a six-week cooling­off period brd'ore Israel begins confidence-building measures such as a freeze on Jewish settlements, Sharon said at a news conference after meet­ing European Union leaders. 
Palestinian Cabinot Secretary-General Ahmed Ahd,d Rahman said the demand for total calm was "an excuse, in effect hamper­ing the efforts aimed at the resumption of peace talks." 
Tim comments came a day bcforP a much anticipated speech on the Middle East by Secretary of State Colin Powell. 
Israeli media said Pc)\,vell was expected to withdraw 
U.S. support for the Isnwli demand during his speech at the University of Louisville. But Powell indicatfid that was 
. not tlrn cast~. saying 011 Fox TV 
that pcac11 talks cannot pro­
ceed until violence stops. 
ThP Bush administration has lwcn pressing Israel and the Palestinians to tone down their conllict, recently cndors­i n g the crPation of a Palestinian state. \Vashington fears continued violence could undPrmine Arab support for the U.S. campaign in Afghanistan. 
Israeli-Palestinian violence has killed 759 people on the Palestinian side and 197 on the Israeli side in the last 14 months. 
Despite Sharon's tough talk, tlrn lsrai~li army pulled out of areas it had occupied for weeks in the v\'est Bank town of Tulkarem. 
That left Jenin the last Palestinian town partly occu­pied -out of six seized last month in response to the assassination of Israeli Tourism Minister Hehavam Zeevi. That killing was claimed by the Popular Front for tho Liberation of Palestine, avenging the August killing of its leader Mustafa Zibri, whom Israel accused of plot­ting attacks on civilians. 
Belgian Prime Minister Guy Vcrhofstadt said the EU is prepared to help Israelis and Palestinians make peace. 
"My message to you is: Use us," he said. 
The EU delegation met with Sharon and Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres a day after talks with Palestinian leader Yassir Arafat and Egyptian President llosni Mubarak. 
The Palestinian Cabinet leader, Abdel Rahman, wel­comed the European efforts, but Israel was skeptical. Haanan Gissin, a Sharon spokesman, said European 
nations  are  biased for  the  
Palestinians.  
Sharon  appealed  to  

European nations to help the Palestinians develop industry and infrastructure but to stop giving money directly to Ara.fat's government, "as your money will then be used to purchase weapons, which will be dimeted against Israel." 
SPAIN 

Court names 8 terrorist suspects 
Associated Press 
MADHID 

A Spanish magistrate accused eight nwn of involve­ment in thf' Snpt. I l Wrrorist attacks on the United Stat()s on Sunday, ordering them jailed and charging them with lrnlonging to Osama bin Ladm1's al-Qaida network. 
Tlw susp{~cts '\vere directly linked to tlrn preparation and carrying out of' the attacks perpetrated by 'suicide pilots' on Sept. 11, 2001," Judge Baltasar Garzon said in his jailing order. 
Garzon, an investigative judge, formally chargtHI the men with membership in a tPrrorist organization -al­Qaida -and with document falsification, robbery and weapons possession. He accused them of "as many ter­rorism crimes as there were victims on Sept. 11." 
The men denied the charges, which Garzon said were based on evidence from telephone conversations of the group's alleged leader -!mad Eddin Barakat Yarkas, whose alias is Abu Dahdah -before and after tlw attacks. 
Entries in a diarv found in 
Germany also link.ed him to Mohammed Atta, one of tho hijackers, Garzon said. The judge did not provide any details of the evidence. 
The eight were among 11 detairn~d Tuesday. The otlrnrs wore released without charges. 
Seven of the night sus1wcts originally came from Muslim countries. Most wnre Spanish citizens, but police said limy were investigating the autlwn­
ticity  of  their  citizenship  
papers.  
Garzon  said  the  men  

"formed part of an extremist Islamic group of a terrorist nature integrated in the sup­port and development struc­ture of the al-Qaida organiza­tion's criminal activities." 
H e said th<' gro u p \Vas involvPd in rnc:ruiting peoplP for terrorist training and pro­viding cover for Islamic mili­tants in Spain and elsewhere in Europe. They also rounded up money for the organization, mainly through stolen credit cards and robberies, he said. 
The suspects will n\rnain in jail while Garzon prepares a case against them, a process court officials said could takn several years. 
Garzon said the one native Spaniard jailed, Luis Jose Galan Gonzalez, whosc1 alias is Yusuf Galan, was trai,rnd at a camp run by bin Laden in Indonesia in July. At his Madrid home, police seized wc~apons. ammunition and forged identity documents. 
Galan was also said to have 
m on ito red an <d nc tion for Spain's radical pro~Basque in de pe n d1\ n c e pa r ty I I e r r i Batasuna in 1989. Tlw party has !men linkPd to tlw arnwd separatist group FTA. 
Anot her of tlw jai!Pd nw 11. Osama Darra, opPrwd an PIPc­tronics store in Spain that lw used to collect nHirn~y for al­Qaida. Garzon said. 
I n th P h o us n of .a n o t lw r , Bassan Dalati Satut, alias Abu Abdo, police found a diary allegedly containing a bank account number. of' Mustapha Sntmarian Nasar, who author­ities said ran a bi n Lad,, n training camps in Afghanistan. 
Else\vhnn! Sundav, an uncle of Ziad Jarrah, a' LP!rn111)SP man named as one of thP hijackers, said hn did not believP German prosccutoi·s found a ldtcr from .larrah telling his girlf'rif'ncl he would not return l'rom the Unitnd States. Jamal Jarrah charged that the letter was "fabricat­ed." 
In Egypt, a domestic wrror case involving 94 suspnrt1•d Islamic militants went to trial. and ·df~fendants accused tlw authorities of using it to show the United States thcv am st'ri­ous about combatting terror­
. 
!Sill. . 
The other four accused aro Said Chedadi, Mohanwd Scndl, Jasem Mahbouln, l\1ohamPd Zalrnr Asade. 
>CLA$:,472. 
·. HISr\ 472M 
·· THE0>.3~2 
MRLT:356 MI 473 
Taught by Professor Keith Bradley Deparrrnenr of (:lassies 
,..rl. l 1 : 00 -1 2; l 5 3 credirs 
An incroduction to the: '\vay in v....·hich t h e Ro rna n s co n c e iv e d of, '\.'v o r ­shipped. and comn1unicared "virh rhe n1yriad gods of their panth<.:on. -rhc course v-rill focus first on conventional religious riruals and their cultural value, and se~ondly on the success of Roman polyrheisrn in adapring r:o changing hisrorical and socL1l con·d i­rions. Parricular an:enrion ,•,rill be paid to the so-called ,\.1::·stery Rdigions. including Christianicy, and du:ir rda­cionship to conventional fonns of re­ligious behavior. 


@ 

WaV\t cove.,.~9e of campL1s events? 
Visit The Observer Online. 
Call ObseJ.4vef-4 News at 631-5323. 
0 < 

http://www.nd.edu/-observer 
page 7 

Monday, November 19, 200 l The Observer . ENTERTAINMENT NEWS 
'Harry Potter' busts box-office record 
million, topping the previous best of $28.5 200:1. 
Associated Press 
million by "Phantom Menace" in its opening "Monsters, Inc.," the No. 1 film for the 
LOS ANGELES dav in 1999. previous two weekends, fell to second place 
Wizards vanquished lizards as "llarry On Saturday. "Harry Potter" broke its with $23 million. Disney's decision to put Potter and the Sorccrnr's Stone" grossed own record by taking in $32.9 million. And the animated tale into theaters two weeks $93.5 million in its first weekend. shattering distributor Warner Bros. estimated the before "Harry Potter" has paid off: thn box-office debut record held by thn movie's Sunday ticket sales at $29 million, "Monsters, Jnc." set a record for best debut 
dinosaur sequel "The Lost \Vorld: Jurassic which would give the mm the No. 3 best for an animated movie and had taken in Park." one-day gross. $156.7 million in just 17 days. 
Otlwr records also foll by the wayside. "We obviously knew going in we were The top 12 movies grossed $157.1 million, "I larry Potter" posted the top thrnP onP-day going to have a great opening," said Dan up 6.6 percent from the same weekend a box office hauls, accord-· Fellman, Warner's head year ago when four movies opened in wide ing to studio estimates of distribution. "Nobody release, including the blockbuster "Dr. Sunday. "Nobody anticipated anticipated such a stag­Seuss' How the Grinch Stole Christmas." 
And it positionr~d itself such a staggering number gering number that The two-and-a-half-hour running time of to bcconH• tlrn fastest would shatter every "I tarry Potter" limits_.the number of screen­
that would shatter every
movie to hit $100 mitlion. industry record." · ings that theaters can squeeze in each day. with a shot at crossing industry record.,, Based on the first Warner compensated by debuting the film that mark in its fourth day book of British author in a record 3,672 theaters, which showed it on Monday. It took five J.K. Rowling's adven­on about 8,200 screens -nearly one-fourth
Dan Fellman 
days to reach that l<wel ture series about a of the nation's total. 
Warner head of distribution
f'or "Star Wars: Episodn I school for wizards and "Harry Potter" averaged $25,467 a the­-Thn Phantom MPrntce." witches, "Harry Potter" ater. "Monsters" averaged $19,332 in 3,237 
"Lost \Vorld" took in $72.1 million in its was directed by Chris Columbus and stars theaters in its debut. first thn!P days over tlw 1997 Memorial Day Daniel Hadcliffe in the title role. "I think in the wake of Sept. 11, people w·Pl'k<'nd. If tlw box-officP cstimatP holds They have little time to bask in the ti1m's are looking for nntertainment close to \Vlrnn final numbers am reported !\ttonday, succe~s. Production on "Harry Potter and home," said Paul Dergarabcdian, president 
''llarry Pottnr" will have surpassed the the Chamber· of Secrets" begins Monday in of Exhibitor Relations, which tracks the box $90.1 million "Lost \Vorld" grossed in its London, with \Varner planning to have it in office. 'Harry Potter' plays right into that. first four davs. theaters the wel~kend before Thanksgiving It's a fantasy world people can gnt out of 
On Frid,ty, "!Jarry Potter" broke the next year. The studio hopes to do thn same the house and enjoy for a fow hours, but 
rncord l'or bPst singln-day takP vvith $31.6 with the third "Ilarry Potter" movie in stay relatively close to home." 
Attention Students! Sign up for a New Course! 
Managing Differences and Conflict: A Lecture Series 
(BA 320 & MBA 520) 
WHAT Is THIS? 

A one-point-five-credit-hour course sponsored by Dean Carolyn Woo, Professors Ram Ramanan, Renee Tynan and Jim O'Rourke. During Spring Semester 2002, we'll examine those differences you'll encounter as you enter the workplace. We'll hear what business leaders from across the nation have to say on the subject ofculture and conflict. Join your classmates and friends as we examine the role ofethnicity, race, gender, age, ability, faith, and preference in post-industrial America. 
WHEN IS IT? 

We'll meet on Friday mornings in Jordan Auditorium, Mendoza College ofBusiness, from 10:40 a.m. to 12: 10 p.m. during Spring Semester 2002. You will hear from knowledgeable, thoughtful executives, including: 
$  Cathleen Black, President ofHearst Magazines  
$  Juan Johnson, Vice President, The Coca-Cola Company.  
$  Alan Wurtzel, ChiefofStandards and Practices, NBC Television.  
$  Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, President Emeritus, Notre Dame  
$  Joseph McLaughlin (Attorney for PGA golfer, Casey Martin)  
$  Anne Donnellon, Professor ofManagement, Babson College.  
$  Ray Hood-Phillips, Vice President, Advantica Corporation (Denny's  
Restaurants).  

A complete list ofguest speakers will be available in November. 
WHO CAN ENROLL? 

"Managing Differences and Conflict: A Lecture Series," listed as BA-320 and MBA-520, is open to any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's Student via DART. There are no prerequisites to enroll,nent. See your academic advisor or your department chair for additional detail. 
WHAT ARE THE COURSE REQUIREMENTS? 
We'll ask you to attend eight Friday morning lectures. This is a "Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory" course in which you must be present for at least six ofthe scheduled meeting sessions to receive a grade of"Satisfactory." There are no examinations and no term paper requirements. 
Prejean backs life 
program 

Associated Press 
PORTLAND, Ore. 
The author of "Dead Man Walking" says she thinks America is on the verge of ·rethinking capital punish­
ment. 
Sister 
H e I e n 
Prejean 
was in 
Oregon on 
Friday to 
promote 
the Life for 
a Life 
Campaign, 
w h i C h 
seeks to get a measure on the 
statewide November 2002 bal­
lot replacing the state's death 
penalty with a mandatory life 
sentence. 
Convicts would have to work 
to pay restitution to victims. 
Signature gatherers need 
89,000 valid signatures to put 
the proposed constitutional 
amendment on the baHot. 
"My coming to Oregon to 
help the Life for a Life 
Campaign is because this is 
one of the most hopeful things 
happening in the United 
States right now," Prejean 
told a Portland State 
University audience on friday. 
Prejean wrote the best-sell­
ing book -which became a 

I 
movie starring Sean Penn as a repentant killer and Susan 

J
Sarandon as the nun who offers him compassion ­

1
based on her work with death 
row inmates. 
She is at work on a new 
book about people who were 
executed but who allegedly 
were innocent. 
•1•
Special on Color Copies 
8.5 X 11 
regular paper only 
.79 

-

( 
page 8 The Observer . BUSINESS NEWS Monday, November 19, 2001 
Foundations play role in Hewlett merger 
Associated Press 

SACRAMENTO. Calif. 
California's llewlett and Packard foundations, born of Silicon Valley's most enduring success story and enriched by a 1990s stock boom, are playing a high-,,virc act seldom seen in American busirn~ss. 
·with billions invested almost entirely in the company's lag­ging stock and fearing for its future bottom· line, th<' founda­tions are questioning Hmvlett­Packard Co. proposed $21 bil­lion merger with Compaq Computer Corp. 
It's an unlikely role, analysts said, for philanthropic organiza­tions accustomed to a quieter preoccupation: giving away hun­dreds of millions of dollars. But as minority shan~holders, the l960s-era foundations and fami­ly mernbeFs who control 17 P•~r­eent of the company stock, have suddenly become high-profile contenders for Hewlett­Packard's future. 
The foundations and heirs of the company, launclrnd in a garage on the eve of \Vorld War II, fear that merging two 
York-based Foundation Center reports the Packard Foundation had $13 billion in assets by 1999: the Hewlett Foundation, $2.7 billion. Assets among 
50.000 foundations nationally doubled betw,~en 1995 and 1999 to $448 billion, it reports. 
Tim riches launched an explo­sion of new grants among foun­dations required to give away 5 percfmt of their assets .every year. 
In 2000, foundations gave $27.6 billion to social causes ranging from public health to the environment, said Loren Henz, the center's vice president of research, The last three years the Packard Foundation emerged among the top four donors, giving more than $1.5 billion to the arts, environment, sciPnce and children's' causes. Only the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, Ford Foundation and Lilly Endowment gave more. The center ranked the Hewlett Foundation 17th, for $224 mil­lion in grants during 1999 and 2000, 
"This period was just unprece­dentPd," said Henz. Hut the best of times is 
weakened "They want short-ter,n over. The Packard
companies results as much as longmight create Foundation's
term because that's 
one anemic average value performer. what supports the work this year \Vas 
Amid talk of they do. They're like $7.5 billion ­
layoffs. they nearly half its 
any other organization. 
also criticizP 1999 value ­the company's They need cash." said chief drift from its financial offi­traditional cer George
Carle Howe 
paternalism. Vera, In turn,
principal analyst
The tension tho foundation is mindful of Forrester Research trimmed its 
past quarrels between fami­ly foundations and their parent companies, said Charles Elson, director of the Center for Corporate Governance at the University of Delaware. 
"It's happened b(~f'ore. The St. Petersburg Times was classic," he said. There. the Poynter fami­ly institute that controlled 60 pen'.ent of company stock clashed with minority investor Hobert Bass. Bass, much likf~ IIP's new chief Carly Fiorina, clamorPd for change in the com­pany's style, and for higher prof­its. 
Eventually. the Poynter Institute paid him $57 million to leaVP. 
Elson also cites H1~aders Digest, where a company over­haul and changes in its founda­tion structurn raised a stir. This y<1ar thP company provided indt>pe1Hlence to several founda­tions worth $1.7 billion. All had chafod under restrictions that prcventml them from unloading poor-performing Headers Digest stock. 
The Hewlett and Packard Foundations also remain mostly invested in their parent compa­ny stock, which has plunged since spring 2000. 
"They want short-term results as much as long term because that's what supports the work tlrny do," explains Carle Howe, principal analyst at Forrester Hescarch in Massachusetts. 
"They'rn like any other organi­zation," he said. "They need cash." 
Charitablt> and philanthropic foundations lik•~ the Hewletts and Packards cxplod,~d with new monny during tlw 1990s tPrhnology boom, Ttw NP\\' 
original $550 
million grant­making budget for 2000 to $475 million. Next year's budget for new grants, a decision expected next month by the board of directors, may be lower, said Vera. 
The Hewlett foundation couldn't be nrnched for com­nient. 
The downturn has sowed anx­ious whispers among llewlett and Packard's large sta,ble ol' rncipicnts. It's also raised eye­brows in the financial communi­ty. 
"Obviously, good portfolio managemnnt suggests diversifi­cation," said Elson. 
Unlike most of America's 50,000 charitable and philan­thropic f"oundations, ,vhich diversify their portfolios to ride out tough times, the llewletts and Packards invest nearly all their billions in the family busi­ness. 
The fall in technology stock prices has hit foundations like Packard and llewlett dispropor­tionately hard, said Henz. 
"They are the exception, not the rule," she said. Others with most of their investments in family businesses: the Kellogg and Hobert Wood Johnson foun­dations and Lilly Endowment 
Vera said thern's been "limited discussion" over the years about diversifying Packard's invest­ment portfolio. 
"Dave Packard told his chil­dren that there was no require­ment to rnmain in HP stock," he said. "lie thought it was a good company. If we were ever to consider diversifying we had to consider the impact on tlw com­pany and tlw communities it opc>ratns in." 
Black workers sue casino 
Associated Press 
DETHOIT Fourteen current and for­
.mer black workers claim they were the victims of racial dis­c rim in a ti on in a lawsuit against MGM Grand Detroit Casino. 
The recently filed lawsuit, which seeks class-action sta­tus, includes allegations that the workers faced derogatory language and were unfairly paid, demoted, fired and passed over for promotion, The Detroit News reported in a Sundav storv. 
The lawsuit was filed in Wayne County Circuit Court. MGM Mirage said the alle­gations were inconsistent 
with its policies in Detroit, where it has 2,614 workers. 
"We take the allegations very seriously because we have a long-standing commit­m en t to providing a work environment where employ­ees can succeed," the casi­no's Las Vegas parent said. Citing the ongoing lawsuit. it declined further comment. 
One of the 14 named plain­tiffs is Yvette Nealy. the cur­rent executive secretary Cor 
the  food  and  beverage  
departnrnnt.  
Nealy  makes  $34,000  a  

year, despite being tho only e.xecutive·secretarv with a college degree, while her white peers without degrees make $38,000 to $44,000, 
said Lynn Sheeter, the Bloomfield Hills lawyer rep­resenting the plaintiffs. 
Among the specific allega­tions in the suit: 
Ursula Bradford-King, for­mer executive secretary for the person ne I department, charged that MGM consid­ered the personnel d,~part­ment "too black." 
Brenda Jackson, a former slot machine attendant, said she was fired after a garnbh~r was overpaid by $800, but a white vvorker involved in the incident wasn't fired. 
Vincent Maxwell, a casino host, charged that black cus­tonrnrs aren't given the samr~ amenities as white cus­tomers. 

GERMANY 
Citizens prepare for use of Euro 
Associated Press 
FHANKFUHT 

In preparation for the January introduction of curo coins and bills across Europe, the Einstein Cafo chain in Berlin reprogrammed cash regis­ters, ordered new menus. and put the euro fig­ures on the wall board. 
It also raised its prices by 7 percent. 
Such moves are being watched warily by con­sumer groups and European officials, who are warning consumers to be on guard for businesses that may be using the opportunity of changing currencies to nudge up prices. 
For many businesses, quro prices must be roundi~d off to arrive at easy-to-pay figures ­ones that Pnd in whole numbers or the old retail favorite, .99. Ttw foar is that many won't resist the temptation to round up more often than down, 
Patrick O'Beirne, a computnr consultant on the euro changeover in Gorny, Ireland, said he sus­pected inflationary impact, e'specially for low­priced goods. "Anyone vvith half a brain would put their prices up now," he said, 
He pointed to Britain's price tag switch of 1971, for decimalization -the transition from 240 pence to 100 pence in a pound, Storekeepers rounded up, he said, for small items. · 
"If you were buying penny sweets at the time, 
you paid more," he said. "Those of us wlni were kids at the time have bitter memories of it." So far, there's only fragmentary nvidence that prices are going up. 
The German Central Consumer's Union in Berlin said in its survey of 908 everyday products and services, 14.3 percent had their prices raised to create a round euro price since J'une, while 4.2 perc<>nt were rounded clown. For instance, a pack of' two rrnm's undershirts, pricP at 29.95 marks, or 15.31 euros, emerged from repricing at 1!i.95 . euros. 
On tho otlwr hand, the German state statistical agency has been watching tlw euro introdudion process by intensively studying around 1,000 price tags for a handful of everyday products, including chocolate bars, butter, and egg noodles. It found that price changes that could be attrib­utf'd to <'uro r<'pricing amountPd to just 0.2 to 0.4 percent ovnr this year so far, for those goods only. 
It said it was "not scientifically possible" to tPII whetlrnr the conversion would affect annual inlla­tion, currently 2.5 percent in c;ermany. 
But lack of' a dcfinitivfl statistical answer hasn't stopped the grumbling, 
"The representatives of the stores said that they are not going to raise prices during tlw period of the introduction, and they signed it," said Silk!1 Moehring, spokeswoman for tlw I Jesse regional consumer's union in Frankfurt. 


~o one told you the hardest part of being an engineer would be finding your first job. Of course, its still possible to get the high-tech work you want by joining the U~S. Air Force. You can leverage your degree immediately. and get hands-on experience with some of the mo~t sophisticated technology on earth. To find out how to get your career off the ground, call 1-800-423-USAF or visit our W~b site at airforce.com. 
\.I
•:• 
U.S.AIRFORC¦ 

Monday, November 19, 2001 The Observer . ADVERTISEMENT page 9 


-
ore 
1 


The Observer's 35th 

April 20, ·2002 
South Bend Marriott 
email obsreunion@hotmail.com for more information 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Souch Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGIN(; EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Pat Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadter 
SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MARYS EDITOR: Myra McGriff 
PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner 
CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Karie McKenna 
CONTACT Us 

Ol'FICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0.•......•.....631-7471 FAX................ ··············· ... · ....................... ...631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4 542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME.................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFJCE........................................631-5313 NEWS...........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. I@nd.edu SP0RTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARYS ............................................ .631-4324 
observer .smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS................ .631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site at http:llobserver.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 

weather for up-to-the movies/mwic for 
minute forecasts weekly student reviews 

advertise for policies 

online features for spe­and rates of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for  about The Observer  
articles published after  to meet the editors and  
August 1999  staff  
POLICIES  

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of che majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Lecters co the Editor muse be signed and must include contact information. 
QUl!stiom regarding Observer policies should be direct­ed to Editor in Chief Mike Connolly. 
Unshackling gender r_elations 
Well, after my last column. I need a happier topic, and I think I've found the perfect subject to talk about -sex. So, kick off your shoes, and maybe the rest of your clothes and let's talk about sex, 
baby.  
I can see some of  
you squirming in  
your seats already.  
For some of you,  
it's because you're  
afraid that merely  
talking about the  
forbidden act ­ or  
even thinking about  
it ­ violates du Lac  
Mike Marchand and you'll have  
ResLife kicking  
down your door like a thought police  Undistinguished  
SWAT team. I can  Alumnus  
certainly under­ 
stand the paranoia  

but rest assured, there's nothing wrong with discussion. 
The rest of you are may be uncom­fortable talking about sex because you're afraid you might either be ridiculed for not ever having it or being castigated as hell bound for experienc­ing it and -gasp -liking it. Joe Muto said a couple weeks ago that he was looking to get some (a perfectly normal attitude for him to have) and was treat­ed to more than a few responses, most of which boiled down to finger-pointing and saying, "Sinner!" While all that was going on, Erin Griswold made the very brave announcement of being a virgin and was herself basically told to shut up because virgins can't possibly know anything about sex. (Just ask Britney Spears. She's a slave for you.) 
Can I ask a question: what's the big deal? Sex, especially the decision to lose one's virginity, is the most personal decision any of us can make. While that doesn't exempt it from all criticism, the least we can do is not rebuke each other because they don't have sex in the manner we would like them to. 
This includes throwing out Bible vers­es and Catechism snippets, hoping it will have the same effect as breaking out a crucifix in front of a vampire. But many people on this campus don't hold stock in what they have to say at all. Many more of us, especially those that went to Catholic grade and high schools, have had the Church's stance on the morality of sex rammed down our throats for years and now really don't care anymore. 
Like me. I honestly think the Church's policy is wrong and I would say it to the Pope's face ifl ever had the opportuni­ty. Requiring couples to wait until after marriage to have sex, at least to. me, elevates the act of sex to be more important than the marriage. The union of bodies, although special, is nowhere near as extraordinary as the union of souls. Therefore, it should not be saved as the final act as if it were more sacro­sanct than marriage. 
There, that's my opinion. You have yours. Is that so horrible? 
Regardless of whether or not you believe in the Church's stance on sex, the policies concerning sex established by the administration in du Lac are not a defense of Catholic practice. Show me where single-sex dorms and parietals are mentioned anywhere in the Catechism. And why can students be expelled for violating Church policy by having sex but not by going against Catholic teaching in any other way, like skipping mass? The no-nookie-under­any•circumstances rules aren't indica­tive of an unhealthy attitude towards sex or even an appreciation of Catholic values but an unhealthy distrust of stu­dents (see also the new tailgating poli­cies). 
Furthermore, I'm well within my rights to criticize the policy. Well, maybe not anymore, since I'm no longer a student. But it's been said recently that students are "expected to·fonow the rules of their institution." But if those rules are misguided, don't they also have the right to point this out in the hopes of changing them? 
The most depressing thing out of all of this is that ... well, think about what we're arguing about. Picture sex in your mind. You can add whatever details you want, but for the purpose of this exer• cise, confine it to just one man and one woman. 
Doesn't it look absolutely ridiculous? 
Seriously, if you sit back and think about it, it's crazy that we care so much about this when it looks so silly. But the reason why it looks silly is because we're examining only the act and dis­carding the deep emotions and feelings our imaginary lovers have for each other. Which is what makes sex special. Those feelings are the same regardless of whether the couple is married or not. But without those feelings, sex merely becomes ordinary. And if someone sim­ply settles for ordinary instead of extra­ordinary, that's the only shame in sex. 
So, maybe we'll never see condoms being given out·at University Health Services, but the administration should loosen up a little. They're afraid that if they don't keep the reins super-tight. the campus will explode in an orgy of sexual immorality. Well, I don't think any couples who want to have sex are scared of the rules against it. I know a lot of people who already break pari­etals and have sex. But unshackling gender relations will allovv the i·est of the community to have a better chance at creating their own loving relation­ships, where sex is not treated as a sin or a crime. 
Mike Marchand, class of2001. is a contributor to RealClearPolitics and The Politix Group, although he probably won't contribute this column to either site. His e-mail address is Marchand.3@nd.edu. "Undistinguished Alumnus" appears every other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author__ and not neces­sarily those oJThe Observer. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Thanks to the women's soccer team 
Before I came to Notre Dame, my appreciation for soccer was minimal at best. Offsides was a defensive penalty for all I knew. But three years ago I met a player for the women's team and decided to come out and support her against North Carolina. I enjoyed the game so much, I have gone to almost every game since. Over the last four years, the women's soccer team has given the student body a lot to cheer about -an upset over an undefeated Santa Clara in the semifinals, and undefeated regular season last year and a 40 game unbeaten streak at home. Unfortunately, the season ended for the team today but I hope everyone does not focus on that. 
The seniors and the rest of the team have represented the University with the utmost class. They truly embody the Notre Dame spirit. When the game was over, the team con­gratulated the other team and walked off the field. As they came out of the gates for their last time, they took the time to autograph the programs of the fans waiting for them. 
There are certain words come to mind when thinking about this team: hard work, dedication. sportsmanship, class, role models. We should not remember the seniors by the outcome of their last game, yet by the way they have represented the University. Over the last four years, this team has accomplished as much or more than any other sports team, and we should remember this. Thanks to Lindsey Jones, Mia Sarkesian, Liz Wagner, Ke_lly Tulisiak and Monica Gonzalez for all the great memories. If every athlete at Notre Dame follows the legacy that they have left behind, then Notre Dame will become a better place. 
Casey Smith 
sentor Keenan Hall November 18, 200 I 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News  Scene  
Jason McFarley  Gordon Strickland  
Kelly Hager  Graphics  
Kevin Suhanic  Katie McKenna  
Sports  Production  
Matt Lazar  Jeff Baltruzak  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Kurt Bogaard  Peter  
Richardson  

POLL QUESTION 
Have your Thanksgiving travel plans changed due to the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks? 93% No; 4% Yes, using transportation other than flying; 3% No, cancelled trip altogether 
Poll courtesy of CollegeClub.com The NDToday/Observer poll \\ill return after Thanksgiving break. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
..She had once been a Catholic, but discovered that priests were much more attentive when she was in the process of losing or regaining faith in Mother Church, she maintained an enchantingly wavering attitude. " 
F. Scott Fitzgerald writer 
THE 

OBSERVER 

Monday, November 19, 2001 page 11 
Separation of church and state being challenged 
Supreme Court Pdicts forbid voluntary Constitution. Since the 1940s, the prayer in gov,~rnnwnt activities, inducting Supreme Court has misinterpreted the classrooms and <'VP!l football games. Yet post-Civil War 14th Amendment to hold in tlw afhmnath of' SPpt. 11, public om-that the Clause binds the states as well as dais. from tlw V\'hitP Ilouse to tlw school the federal government. The Court d<-wel­housP, hav,, act<~d as oped a test, (Wolving from "Lemon v. if llw Court's rulings Kurtzman," in 1971, which required that, did not exist. vVlwn to pass muster under the Clause, a statute Congnissmcn must have a secular purpose, its primary assmnble on the nffect must rn~ither advance nor inhibit steps of the Capitol rdigion and it must not foster an excessive to sing God Bl,~ss tmtanglemnnt of religion. Over the past 15 Arrn'rica, \\,'P aw years most members of the Court have nntitled to wondPr. indicated their dissatisfaction with the so· Is this public reli· called Lemon test. giosity only a pass-In "Mitchell v. Helms," in 2000, the 
· h 1· Charles Rice
mg nig tmarn or Court upheld a state program for the loan the Anwrican Civil of computers to public and private schools Liberties Union'! Or including religious schools. Justice could it foreshadow Hight or vVrong? Clarence Thomas, in his Mitchell opinion, a r<'laxation of tlrn joined by Chief Justice William Rehnquist Court's prohibitions? and Justices Antonin Scalia and Anthony That is unlikely. But Kennedy, said, "nothing in the it is intl·rnsting that, two weeks after Sept. Establishment Clause requires the exclu­11, tlw SuprcmP Court dPcid1~d to review sion of pervasively sectarian schools from three consolidated cas(is that could modify otherwise permissible aid programs and its doctrine on government aid to religion. other doctrines of this Court bar it. This 
"This is probably the most important doctrine, born of' bigotry, should be buried church-stab~ case in tlw tast half-century," now." The Chweland voucher case could said Barry Lynn, of' Americans United for complete that burial. Separation of Church and State. The cases if' you are a betting person, you ought to involvn the voucher program frff stick to the ponies and not bet on the out-CIPvnlaml public school stud(~nts, come of a Supreme Court case. vvhich a parwl or tlrn fodcral Nonethc~lcss, f'ew would be sur· Court of Appeals. by a 2-1 prised if the Supreme Court votP, lwkl unconstitutional. upheld the voucher on a theo-Tlw voudwrs, primarily ry along the lines of.Judge f'or studPnts rrom low-Hyan's summary: "The rule irn·om(• f'amiliPs, mav be is now settled that a gov­usPd to pay tuition 1.tt ernment program that privatP schools, includ-permits financial aid ulti­ing St'darian schools. mately to reach religious Tlw vouclwr clwck. schools does not oITend payablP to tlw par· the Establishment Pnts, is mailed to ttw Clause if the govern· school sPll'ctPd bv ment's role in the pro­tlw parl'nts, \vl10· STA gram is neutral. tlwn Pndorse tlw Neutrality exists if the check to tlw school EME governmental aid that to pay tuition. Tlw goes to a religious program f'orbids institution does so participating schools 'only as a result of the from discriminating genuinely independent against prospective and private choices of students on tlw basis individuals."' of rnligion. Even if the Court 
In holding tlw vouch-upheld the voucher, that <1r unconstitutional, the ruling would probably Court of' Appeals majori-have no direct impact on ty rdied on "Cmnmitt1w the Court's prohibition of for Publi(' Education v. oflicial facilitation of Nyquist," in which the prayers, religious activities, Supn•nw Court. in 197:1, held etc. Such a voucher ruling, unconstitutional a New York ownver, in the aftermath of tuition-grant for low-income chi!-,!:._ Sept. l l, could intensify efforts to drnn in private schools including rnli~-::.:--relax that prohibition of prayer. gious schools. 1lowcv(~r. as .Judge Janws Incidentally, the constitutionality of Hyan argued in his Court of Appeals dis-vouchers is a separate question from that sPnt. ''tlw Nyquist Na catogorical prohibi• of' tlmir wisdom. J\tany. including this tion against dirl'ct grants to aid rdigious writer, are of the view that vouchers arc schools is no longPr tlw law; and second. constitutional but unwise. Th~ basic nat­tlw rritc-ria f'or dctPrmining whPn a statute ural law principle is TANSTAAFL: "There has t.lw forbidd<•n 'primary effect' of' ain't no such thing as a free lunch." If reli­advandng religion haw been modified.·· gious schools feed at the public trough 
Tlw First :\nwndment provides, in part. they will lose their independPnce and abil­"Congn•ss shall make no law respecting ity to carry out their mission. an Pstablishnwnt of rnligion or prohibiting tlw frpp nxercise thereof." The Professor Emeritus Rice is on the Law EstablishmPnt Clausn originally rnquired .'frlwolfaculty. I/is column appears eoery Congress to maintain neutrality among other Tuesday. lie can be e-mailed at religious sects. It had no application to tlw plmrecki. J@m/.edu statns. fivf' of' which had 1istablish('d The L•ieu•s expressed in this column are drnrdws at tlw time of' tlw adoption of' tlw those oftlw author and not necessarily 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

·Arrogance of the dogmatic left and right 
In confronting world problems such figuring out how to respond to the Sept. 
11 attacks, the dogmatic left winces at mention of force. Instead, they 
embrace principled and legalistic solutions such as arms control and interna· 
tional criminal courts. They believe they have a monopoly on morality. 
The dogmatic right winces at principled solutions. Instead they embrace 
pragmatic solutions, usually force. They believe they have a monopoly on 
pragmatism. The left thinks force is morally wrong, counterproductive in that 
it will breed future problems, and never solves anything anyway. The right 
thinks principled solutions are hollow moralism, counterproductiv(1 because 
they bring false complacency, and do not work anyway. 
Both views contain truth and error. Force under some circumstances is just, hence "just war theory." Force can solve problems and for a long time. Defeat of Germany and Japan in \Vorld War II and their subsequent transformation into leading and constructive world powers is proof. Those who advocate force arc not automatically immoral nor is it just to make injurious assump­tions about their motivations. 
Legalistic solutions also frequently work: arms control during the Cold War and especially the Anti~Ballistic Missile Treaty was stabilizing and the World Trade Organization works to increase world trade. Furthermorn, it is hypo­critical to live in the United States, one of the world's prime beacons of the rule of law. and not work for a world where more of its affairs are governPd by the rule of law. Those who advocate legalistic solutions arc not automati­cally naive. 
Sometimes force is immoral and counterproductive: Vietnam. Sometimes· arms control is lulling and fails: vVashington Naval Arms Control Treaty. 
Often the left and the right appeal for reasoned, rational approaches to problems, while each are guided by their own rather visceral wisdom. Neither has a monopoly on rationality and neither is free of emotion. 
Dogmatism makes me wince. One size fits all solutions are unwise. 
My advice to those thinking about policy issues: 
1. 
Consider the pros and cons of all policy tools. Use whatever tools will best solve the problem at hand. 

2. 
Orrn's heart can lead to a question or an issue but rational analysis is the first step in figuring out how to solv<~ the problem. An example of a ·norma­tively-generated qm~stion or issue: vVhat should we do about the next Rwanda-like genocide? But what is the answer? The only thing,upon \vhich we can base a reasoned answer is to study similar historical cases and derive lessons about the causes of genocide and other wars and about the success of various measures to prevent genocide and other wars. We must figure out what array of tools we have at our disposal, then see what lessons we can lcmrn from how well they have worked in the past. These sorts of questions and analyses are (or at least should be) the tasks of the social sciences. 


Following dispassionate analysis, moral concerns often weigh heavily. If it would cost 20 to 50 United States soldier's lives {who would have to kill 2,000 Rwandans) to stop the genocide and save 200,000 to 500,000, is this worth it? Note that any number for lives saved is pure speculation alwad of the fact. !low about 500 to 2,500 soldiers' lives, killing 5,000 and saving 50,000 to 100,000? These are complex issues and can only be decided in one's heart. Even worse, the president may not recPive one of these estimatns but perhaps both, one from the CIA, the other from tlw Pentagon. These options will have to be weighed in an urgent and charged political atmosplwre \-Vith lawrnakf'rs on Capitol Hill, lobbyists, pundits, scholars and citizens all over tlw map. 
3. In devoloping policy prescriptions, think as if you arc president. This dis­courages hand-waving at problPms, vague proposals and helps imposf~ some practicality on proposals. Presidents confront difficult moral and practical tradP offs and risks, made worse by tlw considerable uncertainty about the costs and benefits of each possible action. Becoming av,·arc of tl{ese trade-offs and uncertainties will teach you that many policy decisions arc difficult bets. 
We did not know vvhat exactly would happen when we began to usP force in Afghanistan, in the Gulf \'Var or elsewhere. Nor would WP know uxactlv what would happt~n if we did not. Wclconw to the presidency. Boll tlw tapP bark to Sept. 1 l or the invasion of Kuwait. It's your call. 
Dan Lindley assistanc professor of gowrnmenr and inrern:nional s!Udit'\ Nov. I(,. 2001 


O
THE 
BSERVER 
page 12 

The fabulous destiny of one 
French film 
Since its debut in April, the film "Le fabuleux destin d 'Amelie Poulain" (The fabulous destiny of Amelie Poulain), has been at the top of France's box office charts. The night I finally joined the crowd and went to see the movie for myself. it was completely sold out -on a Tuesday night six months after its premiere.. 
"Amelie" has literally become a phenomenon in Paris : everyone's seen it, everyone raves about it and some say it's bringing hope and magic back to a city that needed a spark. For a whimsical, feel-good movie about controlling destiny and finding happiness -a movie that leaves you grin­ning without resorting to car crashes, full frontal nudity or people falling through plate glass win­dows -it seems like nothing short of a miracle. 
I'll admit, I was a little skeptical. I figured "Amelie" could never live up to the hype. Two hours later. I practically skipped out of the the­ater, trying to hug every stranger I saw and singing about how much I loved Paris and life and everything in the whole wide world. Even after the security guard wrestled me away from the poor little old ladies I was sinotlrnring, I was still 


crazed. And days later I found myself turning into the same "Amelie" disciple I'd mocked weeks before. 
Moral of the story '? It's not just propaganda (though you really do need to sec this movie -out in the States now l -to be a complete human being). What "Amelie" made me see and believe all over again was that Paris at its best can be pure, pure magic. 
That f'act alone might have been what kept me sane this semester. Two weeks into the semester, the world went crazy and it seemed like 
,. 
every time I stepped in the school computer lab, s<imeone was ready 
to tell me about the latest plane crash or case of anthrax. But every 
time I just couldn't deal anymore, Paris would come through with 
some surprise. 

I'd find a new park, sonH~ surreal slice of heaven where adorable Frencli kids were playing with adorable French dogs. Or a crepe vender would give us free paninis at the end of the night. Or I'd catch a glimpse of the Eiffel Tower or Notre Dame in the rain and I'd think, whoa, I live here. 
I can't deny that it's a charmed life. 
But I figured it was just my glossy-eyed "American studying abroad" infatuation. After all, the city can also be rude and smelly and covered with crap from all those cute French poodles. Maybe after living here your whole life, I figured, Paris begins to loose its sparkle and becomes just another bunch of' buildings. 
"Amelie" made me foci like I wasn't the only one who still loved the magic. It's just a simple story about a girl who decides to take her destiny into her own hands and make things happen. But the twists and turns that arise are the kind of magic that Paris knows so well: girl and boy are destined for each other, boy and girl are both too shy so the city has to bring them together. And with the help of a sex shop, a photo machine and a Renoir-obssessed artist, "Amelie" some­how makes the fantasy believable. 
So many people come to this city with grand dreams -visions of how idyllic life on the Champs Elysees should be, a baguette tucked under one arm, a jaunty beret atop the head. I think most students come abroad with a similar picture in mind, set in Spain or Germany or England. When you're young and excited, entering Europe seems like finding another world where everything is new and different and, by extension, fabulous. Yet after a few weeks and the frustrations of a unknown culture, the glitter can wear off and what used to be unbe­lievablP becomes common place. 
But finding a way to hold on to that little gasp of awe, that early morning thought of being an ocean away from everything familiar. that's the feeling that "Am(~lie" has given back to the Parisians. I know my place -I have to leave in two months and stop calling this city home. That's the reality of the study abroad bubble. But I'm not thinking about the end, not quite yet. I'm just glad I got to steal a piecn of the magic before I leave. 
/,aura Kelly is a junior French and English major studying abroad in Paris. She can be reached al lkelly@nd.edu to further rave about the Swiss, hut since she's also trying to blend in with the French, she might not deign to write you. back for a time. French Connection appears Mondays in Scene. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Ohserver. 

Monday, November 19, 2001 

•
Ill 


Radical groups find a forum f<. 
By MATT KILLEN 
Scene Wrirer 
As one of the most important freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution, the right of free speech applies to views both popular and unpopular. While extreme examples of free speech have been around for cen­turies, the rise in popularity of the Internet during the '90s has made access to these forms of free speech all the more easier. It has also allowed people to push the enve­lope of free speech even further. 
"You can't really stop it. Some peopl,~ argue that the Internet breeds extrnmism, and there's nothing that can really be done about that," said Patricia Bellia, Notre Dame law professor and cyber law expert. 
The Internet has revolutionized American life. When used beneficially, it can be a tool of fnstant communication and information-gathering. It's an open forum from which discussion and dialogue flows at the speed of light. 
As a result, the Internet has been used to promote ideas such as neo-nazism and other forms of hate speech. The age of instant access has abandoned societal lil­ters that once limited the ability of such groups to get their message across. Its easy for anyone with an idea to get a Web page, and anyone with access can then read that Web page. 
In many cases, this has meant the harm­less spread of ideas that arc merely strange or unusual, yet not malicious. The Flat Earth Society's Web page (www.flat­earth.org} provides information about this organization's purposes and beliefs. The website offers the opportunity to learn more about their beliefs, which include "The Society asserts that the Earth is 11at and has five sides, that all places in the Universe named Springfield are merely links in higher-dimensional space to, one place, and· that all assertions are true in some sense, false in some sense..." accord­ing to the site. This is an organization that, without the Web, wouldn't be as well­known as it has become. 
The Internet has also provided easier access to more extreme and lesser-known groups. NAMBLA, the North American Man-Boy Love Association (www.nambla.de) is a group dedicated to increasing awareness and legalizing inter­generational relationships. Their goals include "educating the general public on the benevolent nature of man/boy love" and "supporting the liberation of all ages from sexual prejudice and oppression." The Website, however, makes clear that it in no way encourages breaking the law. Hathfff, they "support greater economic, political and social opportunities for young people and denounce Urn rampant ageism that segregates and isolates them in fear and mistrust." 
Beyond simply housing advocates of extreme causes, hate speech has also made its home on the Internet. The KKK has gone online at wvvw.americanknights.com. The Church of American Knights of th(' Ku Klux Klan offers a site that serves both as a community for current members and an opportunity to learn about the KKK. ll pro­vides information on how to join or offer support for the KKK. The Web site offers links to the regional 'maims,' where infor­mation about local rallies can be found. 

{www.amcricannaziparty.com) offers information on recruiting and sup­port services. The Website prominently dis­plays their motto, the so-called '14 \Vords.' The Website also offers more detailed explanations and rationales for their vimvs and beliefs, all ccntnrnd around thfl party's goal to preserve the White Hacli and the Aryan Hepublic. Othnr Websites mnphasiz­ing white supremacy include Stormfront White Pride World Wide at www.storm­front.org. 
Hate speech on the Internet moves beyond the subject of race with such Websites as www.godhatesfags.com. The homepage of the Westboro Baptist Church. the organization "engages in daily peaetil"ul sidewalk demonstrations opposing the homosexual lifostyle of soul-damning, nation-destroying filth." 
Ilate speech is just one promirwnt usn or the Internet. Its also has bm:omo tho sourcl' of hundreds of Websit(\S that teach illegal activities, from creating drugs to building bombs whilP sitting around in tlrn base­ment. 
There are a high number of \,Vebsites that offer detailed instructions on building various types of bombs from household products or products that are easily pro­cured. At http://www.coolguy.dPmon .co. uk/hand­book/explosiv.htm, instructions for building dozens and dozens of types of bombs can be found, including lelt(!r bombs, paint bombs, smoke bombs, plastic explosives made of bleach, exploding light bulbs, land mines, diskette bombs and many others. 
O
THE 

BSERVER 

Monday, November 19, 2001 
page 13 


le enve o 

>r their philosophies on the Web 

http://www.studPnL nad a. kth.se/~d92­mas/sluf'l1/howlsd.htmI. detailt!d instructions am givPn on tlw crnation and rdilwnwnt of honwrnadP d-lysergic acid diethyl amide, LSD. 
The llacker's llorne Page (www. hacker­shonwpag1\.com l sells a pldhora of tools nec­Pssary to subvert security systems, read credit cards, pick locks, and tap phones. Other Websitns out them offor programs and advice on using computers to hack key systems and mainl'rames. or coursP, all of the abov<~ sites make it clear that their content is for inform~L­tional purposes only and should not in any way bt) us<'d to violatP stall' or t'Pderal law. 
l>Pspit1\ this blPak and S<\Pdy underbnlly of tlw lntPrrwt. tlrnrn an~ other \,Vebsitns out tlwrn dPdicat•1d to lighting issues such as hate SJWl'ch on th(\ ,wt. Www.anti-fascism.org is an organization that is d<'dicat1!d to tlw cause of combating such onlitw sponch and educating tlw public about it. According to their Website. "anti-fasdsm.org is nrnant as an organizing and research tool for activists and academics. As a WdJ site, it is devoted to a pluralistic anti­fascism. Hadical humanism requires a funda­mental identification with tlrn labor organiza­tions smashPd bv th(~ fascists and all of the vic­tims of tlw fascist crimes against humanity." 
Otlwr sit<1s offer information about the battle or frnf' spt>nch in general and on the Internet. At civillilwrty.about.com, links can be found to both sidt)S of tlw argument -thosp who feel that f'r(•ti spPt1rh is lwing t~ncroadwd upon, and others who belinvn that violent and dangerous spPnch on the lntcrnnt must bt1 stopped. Thr. \Vcbsit.Ps linked l'rom this sitP show just how muddled and complex isstu•s such as Internet free sprnich can bn. 
These Websites offer a wide spectrum of 
what free speech means for the Internet. 
Some, like the Flat Earth Society, are down­
right harmless and rather interesting explo.:. 
rations of little-known views and opinions. 
They are in many ways beneficial windows 
into a world that, without the Internet would 
be drowned out into obscurity. 
Others, like the KKK and the American Nazi 
Party, are simply online extensions of familiar 
organizations that have been protected by the 
1st Amendment for decades. The Web merely 
provides easier and more immediate access to 
their members and potential new recruits. 
Still others, however, raise the question of just how far free speech can go on the Internet. 
"It's important to distinguish sites containing extreme speech from sites that support or advocate carrying out a crime," said Bellia. 
"In reality, the Supreme Court has been giv­
ing more protection rather than less in the 
sense of Ithe internet as] a new marketplace of 
ideas." 

Bcllia cited a 1997 Supreme Court case as an example of this. In that case. which involved pornographic and indecent material. the court found restrictions unconstitutional because the assaultive quality that's seen in regulated mediums like television was not found here. 
Even sites that advocate illegal activities are we-II protected, so long as they are in another country. 
"Even in those cases in which criminal laws are designed to apply cxtratcrritorially, it can be difficult to obtain jurisdiction over an appropriate defendant or property. Sometimes, however, you can go after a person or compa­ny with assets or offices in the territorial United States," Bellia said. 
However, the idea that the Internet provides m1sy access to any idea is somewhat exagger­ated. 
"The problem is that the Internet is so vast, and using a search engine gives us only about 15-20 percent of what's out there. You could say that everyone has a voice, but not everyone can still be heard," Bellia said. 
Some search engines, like "Google." actually rely on the numbers of links to a certain site to determine if it'll get registered, ensuring that not just any site will pop up. 
There is the possibility of future regulation of the media. 
"It will be regulated to the extent that other cross-border regulated industries are [like the telephone). It's likely that technology will develop to make it easier to regulate," Bcllia said. 
As literally hundreds of millions of users log onto the Internet daily, they are entering into the uncharted waters of history-in-the-making where the definitions of freedom and danger are only vaguely defined and there are no real rules or laws to guide and rngulat<> the jour­
ney. 

And so the Internet rolls on. From cnn.com, britncy sp(~ars fansitcs, and the l1at earth soci­ety to the Ku Klux Klan and bomb-building sites, information of all sorts can be found on the grand expanse of the World Wide vVcb. And while the verdict is still out on th11 value and place of free speech on the Internet, it's clear that an entire generation is now growing up with unfettered access to any organization, idea, or belief on the face of the planet. The curved face, anyway. 
Contact Matt Killen at killen.I@nd.edu. 
Censorship slights freedom of speech 
I hate football. I detest YoCream. I think all beer makers ought to be publicly drawn and quartered. And I sincerely believe that the devil himself lives and rules inside each and every Irish Catholic. 
The term "hate speech." coined by George Orwell for his novel "1984," describes the verbal articulation of an opinion of passionate abhorrence for the 
Nadia Stefko 
beliefs or qualities of another. The issue of 
censorship raises the question of whether 
or not such sentiments ought to be silenced 
in the interest of the "common good." In 
Scene Writer 
defense of my hate speech expressed 
above, I would argue that they indeed 
should not. 
I make this argument not because I hate football and Irishmen. In fact, truth be told, I don't. But that information is irrelevant to the question of censorship. Censorship addresses not the popularity or logic of my hate speech, but rather the constitutional protection of my freedom to express it. 
The fundamental dilemma inherent to censorship is that the suppression of certain opinions and expressions implies the infallibility of others. This becomes problematic when we force ourselves to acknowledge a fact that is so alien to the American mindset: that what might constitute legitimate truth for one per­son or group may ring utterly untrue for another. . 
For example. to deny me the right to blaspheme the goddess YoCream would necessarily imply her unconditional integrity. While this assumption may prove consistent across the Notre Dame community, the censorship of my assertion may have dire consequences in parts of Asia (author's note: It is a proven bio­logical fact that Asians are genetically predisposed to a higher incidence of lactose intolerance}. 
In a slightly more sober light, if we take nothing else from the events of Sept. 11, we must realize that the abject anti­Americanism demonstrated in the terrorist attacks refutes with unnerving finality the notion of an absolute "right" opinion. 
We are l(~ft asking, then, if not by law, how can we effectively deter the expression of opinions so categorically objectionable to the general public? I offer as a solution avid compatriot cen­sure. A University of Texas professor recently exercised his freedom of expression by writing in to a local newspaper that the attacks of September 11 were "no more despicable than the massive acts of terrorism" committed by the United States abroad in recent decades. His anti-American sentiments were effectively condemned by the university's president, who wrote in to the same paper, calling the professor ''a fountain of undi­luted foolishness on issues of public policy," while simultaneous­ly defending his freedom to express his contrary opinion. 
The 1989 Supreme Court decision Texas vs. Johnson advo­cates the idea of deterring hate speech not by law, but rather through mass intolerance. In upholding a citizen's constitution­al right to burn the American nag, the court stated that, "the way to preserve the flag's special role is not to punish those who feel differently; it is to persuade them ~hat they are wrong." After all. what value remains in the very principles and opinions upon which we pride ourselves if they are not backed by the conviction that their truth will triumph in the face of antago­nism'? 
I maintain. then. that our freedom of expression, regardless of the popularity of the nature of that expression, must not be leg­islatively abridged, for to do so would be to impede the natural progression of truth as it prevails against any I-1ateful contrary opinion. And perhaps most objectionably of all, legal censorship would impinge upon my constitutional right to shout "GO IIUSH" in a crowded Boston College stadium. 
Nadia Stefka is an English and Government major. She enjoys underwater basket weaving and long walks on the beach. She can be reached at stefko.4@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The ObserlJer. 


Monday, November 19, 2001 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 

l 

/ 
1 
' I 

HOCKEY 
Irish pick up I CCHA point during weekend 
By MATT ORENCHUK Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team con­tinued to play well, but was only able to come up with one point in its weekend series with the Western 
Michigan Broncos. 
Game 1  The Irish skated to  
W. Michigan 4  a 4-4 tie on night, but  Friday were  
Notre Dame 4  then stopped cold  
Game 2 W. Michigan 4  in a 4-2 loss on Saturday. "It was very dis­ 
Notre Dame 2  appointing," said  
junior  winger  
Michael Chin. "\Ve  

have been playing well, we just have not been able to come up with wins." 
On Friday the Irish showed their resolve by coming back on three sep­arate occasions. Junior Connor Dunlop got Notre Dame off on the right foot when he 
was able to score on 2 victory.
"This year we are tying
the first shift of tht1 Had the Irish won
the games that last year 
game, just 36 sec­on Saturday, the win onds into the con­we lost. We need to find would have boosted test. The Irish then 
ways to turn [the ties] them to 5th in the 
fell behind the 
CCHA. As it stands

into wins." 
Broncos 2-1 thanks now, the Irish are 2­to a Western 6-4 overall, but 2-3­Michigan power play Mike Chin 3 jn the CCHA. Notre 
goal at the end of Dame has seven
Irish forward
the first. 
Freshman Alex Lalonde scored the first goal of his collegiate career when he scored for Notre Dame with 40 seconds left in the first period to knot the game at 2 each. 
The second period found more of the same. \Vestern Michigan again took the lead with a power play goal to make it 3-2. Lalonde scored again for the Irish at the end of the period to tie the game. 
On Lalonde's second goal, defense­man Evan Nielsen shot the puck through traffic. Nielsen's shot deflected off the Bronco goalie, and Lalonde was there to clean up the rebound for the score. 
In the third the Broncos again went ahead. Just 2:23 into the third they were able to put the puck past Irish goalie Morgan Cey. Once again though, the Irish rallied. Irish winger John Wroblewski dished the puck out in front of the Western Michigan net. Mantua poked it away. but Chin was there to put the rebound away and tie the score. 
On Saturday, special teams decided the game. \Vcstern Michigan went two for five on the power play as they skated their way to a 4-2 win. The Broncos jumped on the Ir'ish early in the first. \Vestern Michigan center Dana Lattery had two goals seven minutes apart to stake the Broncos a 2-0 lead. 
In the second Mike Chin got his second goal in as 1nany nights to cut the lead to 2-1. \Vestern Michigan added another goal in the middle of the second to make it 3-1. The Irish played hard and were able to cut the lead again. John Wroblewski lit the lamp with just over five minutes to play in the second to make the score 3-2. 
The Western Michigan defense clamped down in the third period. The Broncos put an insurance goal on the board six minutes in that sealed the fate for the Irish. Western Michigan was able to hang on for the 4­
points, and is sitting 
in ninth. But the 

Irish are only four points from third in the league. 
The most promising thing has been the improvement from last year. In the 2000-01 season, the Irish were mired in the basement of the CCHA for most of the season. But they have improved, and are picking up momentum. 
"This year we are tying games that last year we lost/' said Chin. "We need to find ways to turn [the ties] into wins." 
Notre Dame has the week off, and returns to action on Dec. 1 at home against Lake Superior Statf~. 
Contact Matt Orenchuk at morench u@nd.edu. 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles improve in 2 weekend losses 
. SMC plays better defense in loss to Hanover 
By JOE LINDSLEY. 
Sports Writer 
Two different Saint Mary's teams played at the Hanover College Tip-Off Classic Friday and Saturday. 
One team was characterized by poor defense and lack of teamwork. The second was more relaxed and exhib­ited much more hustle. Both teams lost. 
Franklin College beat Saint Mary's 7 5-58 Friday 
Smith night, and the Belles lost to the Panthers of Hanover College 72-59 on Saturday. Despite the similar scores, though, the games were very differ­ent. 
"\Ne didn't play good at all [on Friday]," said captain Anne Blair. "Our defense was horrible." 
According to second-year Saint Mary's coach Suzanne Smith, Friday's game was an opportunity to deter­mine who will lead the Belles this sea­son. Smith played most of the team Friday night, including freshman Emily Creachbaum. 
"She came in with a little too much excitement," said Smith of the Marian High School {South Bend) star. "We're still working on getting the rotation and just seeing who's going to step up for us this year." 
Even upperclassmen needed an adjustment period. Smith believ<~s that senior Jaime Dineen, a solid play­er all last season, is still trying to make the transition from volleyball season. 
"We were trying to find ourselves Friday night," Smith said. 
Blair played well enough Friday night, to make the All-Tournament team. The senior forward led the Belles with 22 points. 
The Belles made some improve­ments in the second half. but not enough to win. 
"We weren't hustling. We weren't together. We didn't get the plays set up," said Blair, who described their play as somewhat erratic. "Maybe we were a little nervous for our first game." 
vVhile Saint Mary's lost again 011 Saturday, the Belles looked like a dif­ferent team on the court. 
Saturday's game was delayed an hour and a half, and moved to a dif­ferent arena due to a power outage in the original venue, but that did not affect the Belles. 
"We still kept our focus," said Blair. "We were really excited." 
Hanover posed quite a challenge to the Belles, especially during the first half. At the half, the Belles were down 49-26, but they came back in the sec­ond half to outscore the Panthers by 10 points. 
"From the first half to the second half on Saturday them was a big, big improvement." Smith said. "From Friday to Saturday. we looknd like a different team." 
Blair believes that they were a lot more energetic Saturday. They were able to limit the Panthers' leading scorer to 14 points, while Saint Mary's junior guard Shaun Bussell had 19. In many ways, the Belles seemed to do fwerything right. 
"We didn't break dovvn at all. We played really hard. We didn't really have a weakness," Blair said. "We really brought it together, especially on defense. I don't think we did any­thing wrong. I just think they're a bet­ter team." 
Smith saw the team as more relaxed on Saturday, with the Belles stepping up to fill their roles. Crear:hbaum, who struggled in her first collegiate game Friday, bounced back on Saturday with a few treys. 
Freshman Katie Boyce showed her great potential as a point guard and passer, and junior Kristen Matha, injured most of' last season, came through on the boards. 
The Belles, who are at Manchester on Tuesday, were 24-of-57 from the floor, including 5-or-1 ·1 from 3-point range. Saint Mary's shot 6(>. 7 percent from the free throw line. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p,111, All classifieds must he prep3i<l. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
SEMESTER BREAK WORK 400+ LOCATIONS AROUND THE U.S. WWW.WORKFORSTUDENTS.COM 
SPRING BREAK Cancun, Jamaica, 
S. Padre, & all Florida destinations. BEST Hotels. FREE parties, LOW­EST prices' www.breakerstravel.com (800) 985· 6789. 
ADOPTION IS LOVE Imagine your precious baby sate and happy in a loving family, adored by 2 ND Grad parents (a full-time mom and a lawyer dad) and loving playmates in a beautiful home. We promise to give your child the life you dream of tor them. Medical, legal, counseling, court approved living expenses pd. Confidential. Please call our attor­ney at (708) 922-4795. 

WANTED 
WANTED: SPRING BREAKERS! Sun Coast Vacations wants to send you on Spring Break to Cancun. the Bahamas. Jamaica, or Mazatlan FOR FREE! To find out how, call 1 • 888-777-4642 or email: sales@sun­coastvacations.com 
SPRING BREAK PARTY! Indulge in FREE Travel, Drinks, Food and Parties with the Best DJs and celebrities in Cancun, Jamaica, 
Mazatlan. and the Bahamas. Go to StudentCity.com. call 1-800-293· 
1443 or email sales@studentcity.com to find out 
more. 
FEMALE ROOMMATE. Fully fur• nished apt. at Castle Point. $400/mo. Spring 2002. Call Anna 273-0307. 
FOR SALE 
FOR SALE: 2 bdrm limestone ranch, close to campus. 2-car attached garage, hardwood floors, finished basement, CIA Call 219­233-9146 
FOR RENT 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM­PUS mmmrentals.com email:mmm• rentals@aol.com 
Houses available for 3 to 6 stu­dents, Good area...ADT, washer­dryer-air. Dave 340-0106 
HOUSES FOR RENT 1) 9-br $2400/month 2) 5-br $1500/month 
3) 4•br $1000/month Call Bill at 532-1896. 

HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM­
PUS. furn. 272-6306 
, Chicago Apartment in Wrigleyville Owned by ND prof Avail. lmmed. Large 2 bdrm 1 bath, restored woodwork, bookcases, dining rm, hardwood floor, rww kitchen, dish­washer, microwave. Mini blinds, central heat/AC, ceiling tans, pri­vate balcony, laundry, off.street parking incl. $1575 plus 1.5 months security deposit. Owner occupied. Call 773·348-5832 or e-mail bower.1@nd.edu 
PERSONALS 
SPRING BREAK Largest selection of Spring Break Destinations, including Cruises! Rep Positions, Free Drinks and Free trips avail­able. www.EpicuRRean.com 1-800-231-4-FUN 
Spring Break with STS, Americas #1 Student Tour Operator. Promote trips on campus, earn cash and free trips. Info/Reservations. 1-800-648­4849 www.ststravel.com 
..*ACT NOW! GUARANTEE THE BEST SPRING BREAK PRICES! SOUTH PADRE, CANCUN, JAMAICA, BAHAMAS, ACAPUL­CC, FLORIDA & MARDI GRAS. REPS NEEDED TRAVEL FREE, EARN $$$. GROUP DISCOUNT FOR 6+. 800-838-8203/ WWW.LEISURETOURS.COM 
Brooke has been complaining about her lack of classifieds 
Well I don't like whiners so she doesn_'t get one so there brooke, no classifieds for you 
We need to crash sweet tailgates more often 
Nareen is sleepy 
She is falling asleep in her chair. 
She is not going to survive the trip to Chi-town today 
CNN Headline news is terrible 
And we are finished 34 


......_...__..,,..........,,..________............................................... ...........-............................................._................................................. ...........................................................................,...................... .. ......................_.._____.......................---.....-----......................, -....................----..................................................................... 
Monday, November 19, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish begin championship bid as Shay returns 
By KATIE HUGHES Sports Writer 
Ready or not, here they come ­again. Seniors Ryan Shay, who was suffering from an Achilles injury and Pat Conway, who had been battling a chest cold for the past month. will rejoin the most tal­ented group to ever run for the Irish in their attack on an NCAA champi­onship today in Greenville, S.C. 
A first-place fin­ish in last week's Great Lakes Regional meet earned the Irish earned an automatic berth in the NCAA chamoionshios. makin~ this 

the 43rd time Notre Dame has been to this meet. Notre Dame finished ninth in last year's NCAA champi­onships, while the last time they took home a national title was in 1957. 
"This is gonna be a meet that's really close among five or six teams," said senior Sean Zanderson. "And anything can happen on a given day." 
It will be a battle today among the nation's top five: Colorado, Stanford, Arkansas. Notre Dame, and North Carolina State. Who takes the title will depend on who makes the fewest mistakes. 
"It's a matter of reflecting on how prepared we are," said senior Luke Watson. "And knowing that we're capable of doing great things." 
Watson, an All-American, will be in contention for the individual title. Watson was seventh in last year's NCAA championships, fourth at Pre-Nationals earlier this season and sec­ond in the Big East Championships this season. His main competition will be Dan Wilson, who just beat him in the Big East Championships, and national high school mile record holder Alan Webb. 
"I want to be in the top 10 again, and just be competitive with the guys I've been racing with all year," said Watson. "If the race is run to my lik­ing, who's to say an NCAA champi­onship isn't out of the realm of possi­bility?" 
Coach Joe Piane, who was recently selected as the 2001 MONDO Great Lakes Region coach of the year, chose the lineup of runners for today's meet by taking the top finish­ers in last week's regional champi­onships, and adding Shay and Conway to the mix. Sophomore Todd Mobley, who was eighth at the Big 
............1111111.....111111111111111111111.....11111111111111111111111111111111111...-..1111111~ 111111111111111111111111111111111111111111• 1111111• 


Blood Drivo 
~pongorod by 
Notro Damo ~tudont· Govornmont 
Date: Wedncsda~, November 18, 2001 7""1me: 9:00 am -;::;o pm 
Location: N.otre 'Dame Room 
Appointments can be'made b_y calling 6}1-7668 Monda_y-frida.9 8:00 am-5:00 pm. 
Appointments are scheduled ever!:} l5 minutes and it takes about one hour for the entire process. 
If ~ou have a 9uestion about the donation process or _your abilit_y to donate, please call the Central E'.)lood E,ank at 2;+-1157. 
Donating Blood ~avgs livgs! 

..~\ 
, South Bend Medical Foundation, Inc. 
Central Blood Bank 

East Championships. and Marc Striowski, who was 12th at PreNationals, will run today, as will sophomore David Alber. 
"How we finish] depends on Shay, and the fifth man," said Piane. "Luke, Todd, and Marc have been consistent all year." 
Both Shay and Conway, who have only competed in three races this season, dropped out of the PreNational meet, but the team still finished second thanks to top 15 fin­ishes by Striowski and Mobley, and to Sean Zanderson and Mario Bird stealing some points from behind. 
"There's a feeling like we really have to prove something," said Watson. "I think we're ready for it." 
Contact Katie Hughes at khughes@nd.edu . 
WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
By KATIE HUGHES Sports Writer 
After automatically qualifying in last week's Great Lakes Regional meet by taking second place, the No. 15 Irish women's cross country team will compete in the NCAA cham­pionships today in Greenville, S.C. against the best teams in the country. 
But the Irish say they don't feel any pressure. 
"The pressure was last Saturday," said head coach Tim Connelly. "Now this is the fun stuff. This is the stuff, when you're pounding in July, this is the stuff you're day-dreaming about." 
And, really, anything could happen. Stanford, BYU and Georgetown will be fighting for the title, but beyond that it's anybody's race. 
"I've been to this meet a lot," said Connelly. "And one thing you're gonna see is a lot of very good athletes and teams not running well because they have the attitude that 'I have to run the best race of my life.• And they blow up." 
"If we can just have five people matching their best perfor­mances this year, we can do very well. The key is just putting five together there all at once." · .. 
After an eighth place finish in last year's regional meet, which wasn't enough for them to advance to Nationals, quali­fying for this meet has been the ultimate goal all season. The Irish finished 11th at the PreNational meet, which was run on the same course as today's race, and were fourth in the Big East Championships. 
"We all had really bad races at Pre-Nationals," said junior Jen Fihuch, who was stung by a bee at that meet. "So this is a good opportunity to see where we really stand." 
Freshmen Lauren King, who finished second overall at the regional meet and 15th at PreNationals, could be a contender for a top spot individually. Junior Jen Handley, who was sev­enth in the Big East Championships and 22nd at regionals and sophomore Megan Johnson who was 14th in the Big East and 20th at regionals also have a chance at the top. 
"The one constant this season has been Megan [JohnsonJ." said Handley. "But different people have stepped up and got~ ten it done when we needed it. They're saying Tm gonna go 


-.-.-~-f;•_, .t?. ,·" ;.·_:·/'-:_ in and do my best and do everything I can to help the team.· 
..·. :· ;.•.~ ~----,:i_~:':'.:•_;.·~-. 
And that's what it takes to be a good team. I'm really impressed with our freshmen [Christi Arnerich and King]. Beth are great leaders and contributors." 
Arnerich, who was 47th at regionals and has not finished out of the top five Irish runne-rs in a race all season. juniors Jen Fihuch, who was 33rd at regionals, and Muffy Schmidt, as well as sophomore Julie Schmidt \Vill all play key roles for the Irish today. 
Regional rival Marquette, ranked No. 18, as well as Big East rival Villanova could be the closest competition for the Irish. 
"Hopefully we've saved it till the end," said Connelly. "You 
look l:\t the polls and there are a lot of teams ranked right 
around us. They match up pretty well." 
Contact Katie Hughes at khughes@nd.edu. 
Monday, November I 9, 200 I

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL CHAMPIONSHIP 
Dillon caps undefeated season with shut out 

A Dillon running back cuts past a Seigfried player in the Big Red's 21-0 victory against the Ramblers in the championship game. 
. Odom leads Big Red to 21-0 victory against Ramblers 
By JOE HETTLER Spons Writer 
Another championship season was com­pleted for Tayt Odom on Sunday. 
Iloisted onto the shoulders of his fellow teammates and hearing shouts of "MVP" by the Dillon faithful, Odom helped lead the Big Hed to a 21-0 victory against the Siegfried Ramblers in the men's interhall football championship game in Notre Dame Stadium. 
Odom, who won a state championship during his senior year of high school, piloted a typical Dillon attack that put together touchdown drives or 14 and 13 plays respectively. The first scoring drive for the Big Hed took more than seven minutes off the clock in the second quar­ter and was capped off by a one-yard Jason Visner touchdown to give Dillon an 8-0 lead. 
Siegfried's offense could not move th,c ball on the ensuing drive and was forced to punt. Dillon defensive tackle senior Andrew McGuire busted through the line and blocked the Pete Aguier punt attempt. · Big Red sophomore tight end Hick Hasty picked up the loose ball and scampered 15 yards into the end zone, giving Dillon a 14-0 halftime edge. Odom believes that play was the turning point in the game. 
"That was a huge. huge play," said Odom. "It set the tone quite a bit to end the half and gave us a lot of momentum." 
Siegfried co-captain and quarterback 
Hob Plumby agrees. 
"The blocked punt was the turning point 
in the game," said Plumby. "Especially 
since they canw out and got tlw ball to 
start the second half." 
Dillon's wing-t offensti consistently 
picked up four and five yards p<!r carry 
while their offensive line wore dmvn thP 
Hamblers defense by thn end or the game. 
"(The offensive li1rn I played gn~at." said ·Odom. "I told them before tho game. 'You 
guys am who decides this game. so wp'rn 
going to put it on you whether we ,,,vin or 
lose,' and they came through for us. We 
conditioned a lot all year long and I think 
that showed up for us here at the Pml ol' 
the game." 
Dillon's final score came near the t)m! of 
the fourth quarter when senior running 
back Chris Crane ran for a 15-yard touch­
do\vn, giving Dillon a 21-0 lead. 
Despite the huge deficit. Siegfried drove 
down the field and nearly scored before 
Plumby was intercepted insidt~ Dillon's 
five-yard line. 
"This is one of the closest teams I 'vp 
ever been on and we just didn't want to 
let each other down and we wanted to 
play for pride in the end," said Plumby. 
"We just wouldn't give up." 
For Dillon and Odom, this was a pcrfoct 
end to a perfect season. 
"We couldn't ask for a whole lot more 
then the way it ended up," said Odom. 
"Undefeated, winning in the Stadium, 
everybody celebrating and everything. It's 
just pretty great." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhetder@nd.edu. 

WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL CHAMPIONSHIP 
•
Welsh WlilS overtime thriller for third 
Lauren Hoeck and Lichon at
. Whirlwinds rally 
wide receiver. The duo guided
late to defeat their team downfield 40 yards
Chicks 13-7 in OT on 11 plays for the tying score. 
Hoeck first found Lichon on a fourth-and-10 to gain a key first 
By DAVE COOK 
down. Then on fourth-and-goal, Spores \X'rirer 
Iloeck once again found Lichon who made the diving catch. For Welsh Family Hall, the "I have confidence in her," lucky number is three. said Hoeck. "When I throw her 
The top-seeded Whirlwinds the ball. I know she's going to won their third championship in catch it." a row against No. 2 Lewis The game then went into Sunday morning, 13-7, in over­overtime. In women's interhall time. football. the team who wins the 

/\.nd they did it riding number coin toss starts on the opposi­three: Welsh captain Vanessa tion's 10-yard line. After that Lichon. team's possession, the opponent 
Lichon, a junior with two gets a chance on offense. simi­
[i championships already under lar to college football. her belt. came up big when she Lnwis. winning the coin toss, was needed. Lichon made a div­came within inches of taking ing catch with three minutes the lead \vhen Erin Nasrallah left in the game to tie the scorn completed a fourth down pass at 7-7 and Sf)nd the game into that, fell six inches short of the overtime. end zone. Midway through the second Then on Welsh's subsequent half, Lewis quarterback Erin drive, Hoeck connected with Nasrallah connected with senior receiver Mary Murphy open in wide receiver Katie Schlosser. the end zone to win the game In fact, Lewis thought they had "It was probably one of the sealed the game after that most exciting days of my life,'' touchdown. said Hoeck. "I had a huge "We thought we won after adrenaline rush finding [Mary) the things I remember, coach­The fathers of Allison Gooding "Our quarterback is only a that touchdown. They had wide open in the end zone." ing interhall football will defi­and Anne Labelle flew in from freshman. Vanessa is a junior. already punted three times and lloeck was 10 for 16 on the nitely be up at the top of the California and drove in from St. And we've got sevNal players we were confident in our day with two touchdowns. list," said Kirkman. ''I've madt~ Louis to see their daughters abroad right now,'' said Blaney. defense,'' said Schlosser. "We L.ichon caught four passes in so many friends on this team." play in the championship game. "There's a great chance we go were incredibly excited." . the game that included her "It's been a great time playing "It was great. Almost all of to the championship game next Welsh felt the need to score touchdown. football with my friends," said our parents were there," said year. " on the ensuing drive. Down 7-0 For the Lewis seniors, it was a Schlosser. "Playing in the Schlosser. 'Tm really excited about the in the second half was not a bittersweet ending to four years Stadium was an awesome expe­For Welsh. this is only the future of this team." said normal position for the of interhall football. There were rience." beginning of a rising dynasty. Hoeck. "It's going to be awe­Whirlwinds. 14 four-year seniors on the Two Lewis seniors were left Next year, Welsh will return some." But then Welsh was able to team, including head coach in tears with a pleasant sur­every player from this year's pull together under the leader­Blake Kirkman. prise at the beginning of the team, including head coach Joe Contact Dave Cook at ship of freshman quarterback "Several years from now. of game. Blaney. dcook2@nd.edu. 




20%0 

Notre Dame Clothing Notre Dame Gift Items* General Books 




HAMMES 
Notre Dame

NOTRE DAME 
Varsity Shops 

BOOKSTORE Located in the Joyce Center 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
631-8560

631-6316 www.ndcatalog.com 631-5683 9:00am -10:00pm 9:00am -5:00pm 

*Student ID Required-Notre Dame, Holy Cross and ST. Mary's Students. 
*Does not include the following items: Non-Notre Dame logo merchandise, Text Books, CD's, tapes, school and office supplies, computer supplies, art supplies, Health & Beauty. 
~------­

page 18 Monday, November 19, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS 
SMC SWIMMING 


Ramsey wins 500 as Belles fall in dual meet 
sion Friday at Rolfs Aquatic Center and which Ramsey completed in five minutes, because we were trying to keep up." 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
swam the second half of the meet unofficial­18.87 seconds. "She held onto good splits, Petcoff said that although the Belles 
Sports Writer 
ly. but to kind of run away with it is what sur­weren't quite where they needed to be, it But Ramsey's victory was a bright spot for prised me the most." was because their training has been so suc­
In a meet where Saint Mary's struggled to the Belles. who swam against two Division I The Belles, in the second day of three days cessful. get many swimmers into the top three point teams and competed in the Wabash of competition, didn't fill all of the events in "The big thing that came out of this is that scoring positions, sophomore distance Invitational Saturday at IUPUI in the TCU meet, leaving spots in the 200 they're doing so well," he said. "They've set swimmer Megan Ramsey easily distanced Indianapolis. freestyle, backstroke and butterfly vacant. their goals so high, and until tonight, they've herself from the pack. Ramsey said she was '1ust trying to swim Petcoff said that although there were been reaching them." 
Mid-meet in the Texas Christian her race" and not focusing on winning the points where the Belles could improve, he "People swam really well," said co-captain University-Saint Mary's matchup, Ramsey event. was pleased overall with the team's perfor­Lane Herrington. "People swam with a lot of won the 500-yard freestyle in a season best "I just wanted to swim a good time -and mance. heart -we were physically tired and it was time -and was the only Saint Mary's then I realized that wasn't the objective," "They were challenged, and I was pleased mentally rough. But no one gave up." swimmer to nudge herself into an event vic­Ramsey said. "[Winning] felt good." with how they met that challenge," Petcoff tory. "I was a little surprised at her time," head said. "We got sucked down the lane a cou­
Contact Noreen Gillespie at 

TCU swept Saint_Mary's in a 105-82 deci-coach Greg Petcoff said about the swim, ple of times on the first 25 ... but we did 
gil10843@saintmarys.edu. 

MEN'S SWIMMING 
TCU beats Notre 
Dame in battle of ·club teammates 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE Sports Writer 
Usually when Jason Fitzpatrick and Rilus Graham step into the 
water, they're competing on the same team. 
But Friday night at Rolfs Aquatic Center, Irish breastroker 
Fitzpatrick and Texas Christian University freestyler Graham compet­
ed on opposite teams hoping to defeat their hometown teammate. 
The teammates from Desert Thunder Aquatics in Mesa. Ariz. have been training alongside each other for four years, and are used to competing on the same side of the scoreboard. 
"I saw the schedule this summer, and went to practice that day and told him he'd better watch out," Fitzpatrick said. "They beat us two years ago ... we wanted to get them back." 

But the Irish weren't able to avenge TCU's 1999 Fitzpatrick 
win, as Graham's team pulled a close victory in the matchup winning the dual meet 163-137 in the final two events of the meet. 
The loss puts the Irish at 5-3 on the season, after dropping meets previously to Rutgers and Tennessee. 
"We don't really have any pity parties to have for ourselves," said Irish head coach Tim Welsh. "They were just a little fresher, a little faster. The races were close throughout the program." 
The Irish were virtually neck in neck with TCU at the halfway point, with TCU leading 77-73. It was failing to win some of the key close races that hurt the Irish, said senior co-captain Jonathan Pierce. 
"We were pretty balanced overall," he said. "It was a pretty close meet, one of those that is neck in neck the whole way through. Some of those close races just didn't go our way." 
Pierce again led the Irish squad with wins in the 1,000-yard freestyle (nine minutes, 25.83 seconds), 400-yard individual medley (4:08.99) and the 500-yard freestyle (4:37.25). Pierce outtouched Graham at the finish after swimming the entire 500 at virtually the same pace. 
"My coaches always taught me that the race is won or lost in the last 100 and the person who wants it more will win," Pierce said. "I knew [Graham] was having a good race ... but the team was really counting on me to come through." 
Freshman Frank Krakowski had another solid meet for the Irish, capturing wins in both the 50-yard freestyle (21.34 seconds) and 100­yard butterfly (51.33 seconds). Sophomore J.R. Teddy easily outdis­tanced competitors by almost two seconds to win the 200-yard butter­fly in one minute, 53.73 seconds. 
Junior diver Andy Maggio earned victories from the boards, winning the 1-meter diving with a score of 298.10 and missing a first-place fin­ish in the 3-meter diving by less than three points. 
Other notable swims for the Irish included a second place finish from senior David Horak in the 100-yard backstroke (52.07) and a second place finish from freshman David Moisan in the 100-yard breastroke (1 :00.68). Senior co-captain Mike Koss and junior Fitzpatrick tied for third place in the event. each swimming it in 1:00.76. 
Moisan also earned second in the 200-yard breastioke, finishing in 2:10.20. 
After three meets in seven days, the Irish will not return to competi­tion until the Notre Dame Invitational Dec. 7-9 at Rolfs Aquatic Center. The meet is the most important meet of the fall semester. according 
to Welsh. "It is the focal point of the fall semester," Welsh said. "We like to say we take our final exam in swimming first." 
"It's tough to lose close meets like this -but we just have to get back in the water and train even harder," Koss said. "I think every­one's pretty excited for [the Notre Dame Invitational]." 

', Planning ,your·Sprin9 Break? 


Over 10 years of .experiencel No hidden charge.sl 
Complete Student Discounted Trips Available To: ;) ACAPULCO ;) CANCUN ~-CABO ~ JAMAICA ;) MAZATLAN 
::~ ~ 

Lqfcrluhe Student Center 631-7080 • www.$J'YfhonyfrtWel.com
Contact writer at Noreen Gillespie gill0843@saintmarys.edu. 

Monday, November 19, 2001 page 19
The Observer . SPORTS 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish win in record-setting fashion 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Sports Writer 
The 2001-02 Irish women's 
basketball team is already mak­
ing history. 
In their season opener Sunday afternoon, the Irish set the record for fewest points scored in an Irish victory as Notre Dame defeated Valparaiso 42-35 
"I actually thought after the game it was the halftime score," head coach Muffet McGraw joked in her post-game interview. 
The veteran Crusaders. which returned its five leading scorers from last year, clamped down defensively and wouldn't let the Irish get open looks from the out­side. The Irish missed both of thier 3-point attempts. Last year's leading 3-point shooter, Alicia Ratay, did not shoot from behind the arc. 
"We wanted to make it hard for them to move the ball around the perimeter and make sure that Ratay had to bounce the ball to get a look," Valparaiso coach Keith Freeman said. 
"They really worked hard," McGraw said. "They did a good job of taking away what we wanted to do." 
While Notre Dame's long-range shooting was taken out of the game, the Crusaders used 3­pointers to keep them in the game. After trailing 24-20 at halftime, Suzie Hammel hit a 3­pointer with 15:30 remaining in the game to give the Crusaders a 27-26 lead. 
After taking the lead and domi­nating the first five minutes of the second half, Valparaiso seemed to come alive. But Ratay, 
the lone starter back from last 
year's national championship­
winning team, kept the Irish in 
the game. The junior battled 
through a crowd of Crusaders to 
hit a 10-foot jump shot as she 
was fouled. She made the free 
throw to give the Irish a 29-27 
lead. 

But Valparaiso would answer back as Amber Schoeber hit 3­pointer to push the Crusaders back in front by one, 30-29. 
The Irish looked to Ratay again on their next possession and the junior hit a jumper to regain the lead for the Irish, 31-30. After a stop on defense, the Irish got the ball back to Ratay and the junior delivered another basket to push the lead to 33-30. The Irish never trailed again. 
"We thought if [RatayJ could at least get fouled, we would be OK," McGraw said about Notre Dame's strategy after the Irish fell behind. "The game plan for five minutes was 'Nobody shoots but Alicia."' 
With four starters graduated from last year's national champi­onship team, Ratay has become the go-to scorer for a freshman­dominated squad. 
"It's definitely a different team without Ruth and Niele so some­one had to step up," Ratay said. 
Ratay finished the game with 1l points and nine rebounds. Freshman Teresa Borton led the Irish in scoring with 14 points and nine rebounds. The Irish return to action Wednesday when they travel to Colorado to play No. 24 Colorado State. 
Contact Mike Connolly at connolly.28@nd.edu. 

. ~---
Samt Macy's College 
O

NOTRE DAME INDIANA 
The Nation's Premier Catholic Wornen·s College 
29TH ANNUAL 
EUROPEAN SUMMER STUDY PROGRAM 

Courses offered in History, Education, Music, Culture and International Business. 
For further information contact: 
Professor David Stefancic 54 Madeleva Hall, Room 347 Saint Mary's College Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 284-4462 e-rnail: dstefanc@saintn1urys.edu Fax: European Summer Study Program (219) 284-4866 
Upset 
continued from page 24 
In a game where the 
Bearcats had just five shots 
overall and no corner kick 
opportunities, Waldrum rec­
ognized Cincinnati's ability 
to capitalize on what few 
chances they received as a 
critical factor in Sunday's 
game. 
"They came out and fought and worked hard for it and were organized in the way they played and took advan­tage of their chances," said Waldrum. 
For a while though, it looked like the Irish had a chance to dig themselves out of their two-goal hole. Sophomore forward Amanda Guertin, Notre Dame's most consistent offensive produc­er and the heart and soul of the Irish attack recently, scored off a play set in motion when midfielder Randi Scheller took a free kick in the 23rd minute. 
Guertin got control of the ball, and fired a long shot past Bearcat net minder Christy Hoffman to pull the Irish back into the game with a 2-1 tally. The goal extended Guertin's goal scoring streak to 10 games, longest in Notre Dame histo­ry and third in Division I his­tory. 
Twenty-two tense minutes would pass until halftime. with the Irish unable to find the equalizer, and then 16 minutes into second half, Cincinnati turned the game in its favor for good with its 
third score. Again Simonton 
would play a key role in the 
score, launching a long shot 
up and over Wagner to put 
the Bearcats up 3-1. 
The Irish would never 
recover. 
"The third goal was huge for them because I really felt we'd get the goal back to draw it to two. If we ever tied it up, I felt like it would be our game," said Waldrum. "So credit them for the third goal to put us back down two. Psychologically, it's tough. It's just one of those back breakers." 
Notre Dame attempted to generate more offense late in the game, moving senior defender Monica Gonzalez to midfield and shifting defend­er Vanessa Pruzinsky, a pro· lific high school striker. to forward. 
Pruzinsky was able to get a goal in the 77th minute, but it was not to be for the Irish, as they watched the clock and their NCAA title hopes expire. 
"Over 18 or 19 years of doing this now, this probably is [my toughest loss]." said Waldrum. 
Notes: 
. On Friday, the Irish defeated Eastern Illinois 2-0 in the first round of the College Cup at Alumni Field. on a pair of goals from Guertin. 
Contact Jeff Baltruzak at jbaltrul@nd.edu. 
Monday, November 19, 2001 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS 

--------~-----------------------, 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
Goralski takes 
) 
) . 
l l home hardware 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Sports Editor 
PITTSBURGH 

For Irish senior Malinda Goralski, what started out as a dream is finishing up better than she ever could have imagined. 
Goralski is 
N o t r e Dame's star middle blocker who was named both Big East Player of the Year 


and Big East Goralski 
Champion­ship Most Outstanding Player this weekend. But while Goralski earned those accolades with an ability to block and score that netted her a .377 hitting percentage during the reg­ular season and an average of 
1.77 blocks per game, Goralski wasn't always such a complete player. In fact, she wasn't always sure she could play at Notre Dame. 
"During the recruiting process, I always wanted to go to Notre. Dame but I never really believed that it would be possible," said Goralski, whose father is from South Bend. "It was one of those dreams where I kind of said 'Well, it's not going to happen so let's focus more on the smaller picture of things that are possible."' 
But Goralo:;ki met Irish assistant coach Steve Hendricks during a club tournament after her sopho­more year of high school. And after a senior season in which the 6-foot-1 Goralski averaged 3.39 blocks per game as she led Oements High School in Missouri City, Texas, to it's first ever state tournament appearance, Goralski accepted a scholarship offer to come to Notre Dame. 
"When I did get offered [the scholarship] I kind of knew from then on out that that's when~ I wanted to go," Goralski said. 
When she got to Notre Dame, however, she didn't exactly step into the starting lineup. As a fresh­man Goralski appeared in only 14 matches and 24 total games. While Goralski finished the season with the highest hitting percentage on the team during her limited time, she was usually brought in to help out defensively. 
''They'd put me in ifit was close at the end and they were looking for a good block," Goralski said. 
As Goralski came in as a junior, Treadwell was two years out of school and Leffers had just gradu­ated, opening up the a starting spot at middle blocker alongside senior Christi Girton. 
It was an opportunity Goralski took advantage of, averaging 2.85 kills per game to go along with 
1.47 blocks. In the NCAA tourna­ment against Cincinnati, Goralski had 15 kills and six blocks in the first round win. 
"I think that last year was a very important growing year for me,''· Gora1ski said. "It was the first year tha! I really started throughout the year and the team looked at me for offense and defense. As the year went on, I really improved offensively." 
Goralski's offensive emergence changed the way opposing teams defended Notre Dame, making the Irish offense that much more potent. 
"Before that time, teams didn't pay much attention to her and . didn't necessarily put a block in front of her," Irish head coach Debbie Brown said. "This year, ifa team doesn't do that, they're in trouble." 
One physical attribute Goralski was able to use to her advantage was her impressive vertical leap, one of the best on the team. Goralski credits this ability to play­ing jump rope with her father as a child. 
"The angles are a little bit differ­ent when she does get up early and hits the ball at the top of her jump, different than what a lot of the teams are used to seeing," Brown said. "She can hit a lot sharper angles because of her height above the net." 
But as the 2000 postseason accolades came around, Goralski was left empty-handed. Despite average and block totals near the top of the conference, she didn't even make the All-Big East second team. 
"She was in the top one or two in blocks and hitting percentage in the conference last year and she didn't get the award," Brown said. "That was a disappointment for me that she individually didn't get recognized." 
Entering her senior year, she made the preseason All Big East team, but it was classmate Kristy Kreher who earned Preseason Big East Player of the Year honors. As the season progressed, however, Goralski emerged as the key to Notre Dame's attack with a .377 hitting percentage -the only Notre Dame hitter with a mark over .300. When the last national statistics were released she had the 25th best hitting percentage in the nation to go along with the No. 8 ranking in blocks with 1.70 per game. 
Goralski posted a .350 hitting percentage and five blocks against No. 7 UCiA and a .429 hitting per­centage with eight blocks against No. 16 Northern Iowa. 
"That's the one thing where Malinda rose above that was in our matches against top-20 teams," Brown said. 
The normally reserved Goralski also developed into a leader dur­ing her final season. While fellow seniors Kreher and Marcie Bomhack are the most vocal, Goralski has shown the younger players on the team a positive example. 
"The way that she has led is through example -working hard and being very consistent in her play," Brown said. "She doesn't say as much as Kristy or Marcie, but when she does, everybody lis­tens. She's careful about what she says and she really has the ability to just pick everybody up." 
Next year, the math major is looking at going into actuarial sci­ence or perhaps teaching high school math and coaching. But for now, she's focused on the rest of Notre Dame's season. 
"We played great this season and that's why we won the Big East championship and why a person from our team was able to be named Big East Player of the Year," Goralski said. "I think this weekend we played great as a team." 
Contact Noah Amstadter at amstadter.l@nd.edu. 
Vball 
continued from page 24 
lead early and never looked back. 
In the second game, the Irish started out equally strong, tak­ing a 7-2 lead. Then Vtyurina regained the serve, and before they knew what hit them, the Irish were down 10-7. Notre Dame fought back to pull with­in 17-15 before another Georgetown streak buried the Irish 26-16, and eventually 30­24. 
"After game two we went into the locker room and we were really antsy to go back out there and start playing again," Goralski said. "We were ready." 
So was Georgetown. This time, the game was close early. But with Georgetown up 10-8, the Hoyas scored four in a row with Vyturina serving. A late Kreher kill closed it to 28­27, but Georgetown was able to take the final two points to take a 2-1 lead in the match. 
"I think that we just let things break down," Loomis said. "Passing, maybe we weren't as aggressive. But we knew we had it in us and we really wanted to fight. We really wanted the game more than Georgetown I think." 
In game four, Notre Dame came out determined. An early run with Kreher serving turned a 6-6 tie into an 11-6 Irish lead. Then with Notre Dame up only 19-16, the Irish scored five in a row with Kristen Kinder serving to break the game open. To end it on a strong note, Notre Dame scored six of the final seven points for a convincing 30-20 win. 
"After game three, we had played with them too long and we let them play with us," Goralski said. "It was just frus­trating. From then on there was no kidding around. We just came out with a strong effort of a good block and solid blocking outside and playing real solid defense." 
Kim Fletcher added 10 kills and 10 block assists for the Irish,· while Kinder added 44 assists and a team-leading 14 digs. 
Notes: 

. Notre Dame . defeated Connecticut 3-0 in Saturday's semifinal. 

Bomhack led the Irish with 
13 kills and three blocks while 
Goralski added 12 kills on a 
.600 percentage and added 
three more blocks. 
"Obviously there was a little 
bit more pressure and a little 
bit more nervousness, but I 
think we came through and 
did what we had to do," 
Brown said. 
. After leading the Irish to an 19-5 mark during .the regular season and a perfect 12-0 record in Big East play, head coach Debbie Brown won her third Big East Coach of the Year award. 
"When I accepted the award 
. I said that I only accepted it on behalf of the team and the staff and everybody that went into making it a good Big East season for us," Brown said. "I appreciate the fact that the other coaches in the confer­ence feel that way . 
. Sophomore Kristen Kinder, who took over as Notre Dame's starting setter this season after the graduation of All-American Denise Boylan, was named the Big East Setter of the Year. 
"The one thing about Kristen is she just comes into practice every day, she works incredi­bly hard and she's just been just a sponge in terms of want­ing the feedback and taking the feedback and doing what­ever she can to improve her­self," Brown said . 
Contact Noah Amstadter at namstadt@nd.edu. 


Mon. ~ove1nber-1<1 

NOTRE DAME 
vs. 
CORNELL 


Come §ee the arnazina Clll?ISTOVll~l? Pertor-1nina ··"1MC.A~~ at halftime::: 
e 
7:30 Pht
W!JI 



Monday, November 19, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Despite loss, Irish season still a success 
STORRS, Conn. 
Some would look at the final score of Friday's matchup between the Irish men's soccer team and St. John's and see disappoint­
ment. 
I don't. 
Those of you who braved the desolation and made the trip to Storrs know that the game was an extremely close 

one. And the onlygoal of the game  Bryan Kronk  
occurred on a  
deflection off of a  
free kick from just  Irish Insight  
outside the penalty  
area.  

Anyway, sometimes in life we see the end result and lose sight of the 
effort that brought us to the present. 
I am thankful to the Irish for turn­ing the team around after a disap­pointing season last year, and playing their hearts out for the past 18 games. Thankfully, the Irish will like­ly play at least one more game, in the NCAA Tournament. 
I'm sure Irish fans are thankful that their soccer teams both ended up in the NCAA Tournament for the first time in 5 years. We're thankful for the season-long effort by our men's team for overcoming adversity over the past two years and putting it all aside to achieve major strides in bringing the Irish back to the fore­front of nationally recognized men's soccer programs. 
Friday night, when Angel Rodriguez scored the eventual game-winning goal for St. John's, the Irish were likely thankful to have almost 43 min­
utes left to recover. 
Unfortunately, even Moses the trav­eling teddy bear couldn't help lead the Irish to the Promised Land, and the Irish now must sit and wait to see where they will end up playing. 
I will likely be following the team to wherever they end up on Friday, spending my Thanksgiving traveling to wherever the Irish will play. My Thanksgiving dinner will likely be on a plane or in an airport, but I am thankful for being able to even have had the opportunity. 
And being here in Connecticut is not so bad. I filean, I was able to spend some time with family and good friends (all Irish fans) to watch the football game and have Thanksgiving dinner. And, hey, we do get free HBO, so I guess, even though we lost the soccer game, I still have better televi­sion options than my dorm room. 

Notre Dame forward Erich Braun looks on as Connecticut goalkeeper Guy Hertz saves a shot during the Huskies 1-0 win over the Irish Friday night in the Big East semifinals. 

Soccer 
continued from page 24 
er Guy Hertz knocked it away to prevent the score. 
"We had some good chances," head coach Bobby Clark said. "I think we slipped in for some very good opportunities that we couldn't finish." 
The play was just one of a few missed opportunities during the match for the Irish. Notre Dame outcornered St. John's 5-2; how­ever, none of those corners proved serious threats as the kicks sailed out of bounds or away from Irish attackers. 
"It's the sort of game where I think we'll wake up tomorrow morning and wish we could get it again," Oark stated. "I think it's a game that we feel that we could do better in. I mean if you look at the stats, the shots were really quite equal ... and we actually even outcornered them." 
In most ofthe first half. the Irish offense played very conservatively, not wanting to make a mistake that would allow St. John's a chance to score. Then after the Red Storm goal at the start of the second half, the Irish were unable to penetrate their opponent's defense as many passes from Irish attackers missed their targets, resulting in costly turnovers. 
"I think we did a better job in the second half, because in the first half we couldn't get up the field," Irish forward Erich Braun said. "We turned the ball over offensively -I turned the ball over, and I shouldn't have. But I think we did a better job in the second half than the first half offensively." 
St. John's demonstrated why it is the eighth-ranked team in the country, as it did just enough to win and held strong against the Irish attack late in the game to preserve the one-goal victory. 
And to those of you who think it is selfish of me to be enjoying this trip away from school, think of where you will be on Thursday. You will proba­bly find yourself in the company of friends and family, watching fo0tball and eating turkey. 
Think of how thankful you will be then. That is how thankful I am now, not just in general, but to our Irish men's soccer team. 
The season is by no means over, I will likely follow them for the rest of their incredible journey this year. And I am thankful for that. 
Thank you, guys, and good luck in the NCAAs. 
Email Bryan Kronk at bkronk@nd.edu. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
With 15:32 left in the match, a header by Braun was snatched out of the air by the keeper Hertz. Later, Detter broke away after on a long pass from defender Griffin Howard, but his shot was again deflected over the bar by Hertz. 
"The Big East is a very competi­tive league, because no matter who you play on any given day, it's going to be a competitive affair," St. John's coach Dave Masur said. "That was illustrated out there today. Our keeper made a couple of big saves on some times that Notre Dame did break us down." 
"They have some tremendously able athletes and a very young, confident team. They had two great chances where they took shots and [Hertz] came up big." 
Even though the loss knocked them out of the Big East tourna­ment, the season is far from over for the Irish. Their competitive play in the Big East throughout the year will almost certainly earn the Irish a spot in the 48-team NCAA tournament, which begins Friday. 
"I'd think we'd be in very good shape. I'd be very disappointed if we weren't in the tournament," Oark said. "The question is we've got to stay in the NCAA's. That's the trick. We've got to learn. We need to grow up quite a bit by next Friday." 
Tournament pairings and loca­tions should be released by the NCAA some time early this week. If the Irish are selected. it would be their first trip to the tourna­ment since 1996. 
Notes: 
. The last time the Irish made it to the Big East Semifinals was 1997 -when they were ousted by top-seed St. John's 4-1. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu. 


-------------------7, 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, November 19, 2001 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Thomas has first Irish triple double ever in win 

A couple of lockers away from the man of the hour, David Graves looked at a stat sheet in mock disbelief. 
"Eighteen shots," he said, raising his voice loud enough so that Chris Thomas could hear him. "Eight• een shots! I don't even remem• ber the last time I played with a point guard who took 18 shots." 
Then again, Graves hasn't played with a point guard who recorded a triple-dou­ble, either. 
But when Torrian Jones' 10-foot jump shot swished through the net with 1 :40 left in an otherwise mean­ingless game, Thomas had his 10th assist and a place 
.r 
l 
in the Irish record books. 
\' 
r 
;, He finished the game with 24 points, 11 assists and 11 steals -the best individual performance in Notre Dame 
,\: 'I ' I , 
history in any game. let alone his first game. Now he's going to spend
,'!'. 
the rest of his career trying ·~ to live up to that first game. It doesn't matter that
f Notre Dame was playing New Hampshire. It doesn't matter that Thomas played
i 
most of the game even
{ 
though the Irish were com­fortably ahead. What does matter is that
'l 
f 
) Saturday morning, more people in the Joyce Center 
parking lots were talking
,. 
about the numbers 24, 11 
1i· i 
and 11 than they were about the differences 
r: between a monkey and Bob Davie.
l A few days before the game, Thomas said he 
I ~ 
hoped to keep a low profile . 
• 
'i All he wanted to do was
; 

distribute the ball, pass it around and do his job. A few months before the game, Brey said he hoped to keep his talented fresh­man out of the spotlight. 
Fat chance of that hap­pening. 
People didn't go to the Joyce Center Friday night to see Ryan Humphrey sit on the bench wearing a suit. They wanted to see if the most-hyped Notre Dame recruit in recent memory was the real deal. Being a McDonald's All-American in high school is one thing. How would Thomas respond at the college level? 
Impressively is an under­statement. 

In the first half, Thomas absolutely humiliated New Hampshire point guard Marcus Bullock by stealing the ball every other time Bullock tried to go up the court. He tied a 27-year-old team record for steals in a game -seven -in the first 


. Now Thomas must meet expectations after incredible debut 
half of his first collegiate 
game. 
He wasn't done then. Right after Jones' jumper, Thomas stole the inbounds pass and fired up a 3-point shot from the baseline. Nothing but net. Matt Carroll nearly fell out of his­seat in disbelief. 
"I think some people might look at me and think I'm a manager or some­thing," he said. "Now I might get my name out there a little." 
Sure, Thomas has a lot to learn. In addition to setting a Notre Dame single-game record for most steals, he also may have set a Notre Dame single-game record for having the most layups blocked. 
But it's awful tough to see how Thomas, the first play­er in Notre Dame history to wear No. 1 on his chest, can go up from his first game. Now, everyone knows what he's capable of. Now, every­one knows what Thomas can do. Now, everyone expects a triple-double out of Thomas every night. 
Now, everyone is expect­ing him to replace Troy Murphy instead.of Martin Ingelsby. 
Thomas has a core group of experienced players around him, players who won't be bothered if they don't get all the attention. That's a good thing, because the way the season has started, it seems like Thomas will be the guy in the spotlight. 
He's just a freshman with a whopping one game under his belt. It's unrealis­tic to expect a triple-double every night. There could even be nights where Graves will pick up a stat sheet and see 18 turnovers, not 18 shots, next to Thomas' name, and he probably won't be pretend­ing to be in disbelief then. 
But if that happens, it won't be a freshman having a bad night. It'll be Thomas having a horrible game. 
Thomas said Friday was just one night and was just one game. It felt good, but there are plenty more games to be played. There's still a whole season ahead. 
He's right. There is. Which might be too bad for him. 
Brey hoped to bring him along slowly, to take time to get him accustomed to the college game. That's not going to happen now. With his record-breaking perfor­mance this early in the sea­son, Thomas lost the honey­moon Brey hoped he could g.et for him from fans and the media. 
Most Notre Dame players would have loved to end their career with a triple­double. 
He has the misfortune of starting his career with one. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily The Observer. 
. Freshman also breaks 27­year-old steals record in 95­53 win over New Hamphsire 
By KERRY SMITH 
Sports Writer 

Long-standing records came crashing down as the Irish dominated in their 95-53 season-opening win against the University of New Hampshire Wildcats. 
Freshman point guard Chris Thomas opened his collegiate career for the Irish with a bold statement, as he broke a 27-year old Notre Dame record for single-game steals with 11 and recorded the school's first triple-dou­ble, with 24 points, 11 steals and 11 assists. 
The Irish also broke a team record dating back to 1976 with 26 steals. 
The previous records for single-player steals stood at seven and team steals at 23. 
"I wasn't really thinking about the triple­double," Irish head coach Mike Brey said. "I wanted him to play and to enjoy the atmosphere. It 


defense proved too much for the undersized Wildcats to handle. The UNH squad opened the game strong with a quick 3-point basket by forward Austin Ganly and a tough full court defense that sent the Irish scram­bling. 
"I thought we did OK in the first three or 
four minutes of the game," Wildcats head coach Phil Rowe said. "But then [Thomas'] defense made the difference." 
After keeping the score close in the opening minutes, the Irish pulled away with a 21-1 run for a 26-7 lead midway through the first half. 
"We had great instincts on defense tonight," Graves said. "They were nervous and we took advantage of that." 
Despite the tough play of Ganly, who scored 22 on the night, the \Vildcats never recovered, ending the half down 48-26. 
The second half proved more of the same, as Notre Dame's stingy defense kept UNH at bay. 
Much of the Irish bench saw action in the contest, including fresh­man Jordan Cornette who logged eight points, one block and three steals. 
"I'm completely confi­
dent in Jordan Cornette," Brey said. "To get that many minutes was a great thing. He might end up starting the second game of his college career [due to the injury to Humphrey]." 
The Wildcats starting corps of Ganly, Chris Brown, Allen Goul.d. Kyle Peterson and Marcus Bullock scored 

46 of the team's 53 total
"/ wanted him to play 

was only his first college 
points. Several Wildcat 

game, after all." and to enjoy the 
reserves entered the game.

Thomas wasn't the only 
atmosphere. It was only but none could manage to

standout on the Irish squad, 
give the team the lift it so
his first college 

as David Graves scored a 
desperately needed. · 

game-high 26 points and game, after all.·· 
"There weren't any posi•

Jere Macura, starting in 
tives tonight. None," Rowe

place of Ryan Humphrey, 
said. "We didn't execute.
Mike Brey
added 14. 
We didn't attack. The
head basketball coach

Notre Dame's swarming 
defense forced us into 
deflections and steals." 
The Irish will return to the court at the Joyce Center tonight in another non-conference game when they take on Cornell. Tip-off is at 7:30 p.m. 
Contact Kerry Smith at smith.387@nd.edu. 

Announcing the 7th Annual Keough Summer Internships 
in Ireland 

•The Keough Internship will include: 
1. 
Seven weeks' internship 

2. 
Round trip airfare from the United States to Ireland 

3. 
Room and board 

4. 
Stipend 


All Notre Dame JUNIORS with a demonstrated inter­est in Irish Studies/Ireland are encouraged to apply. 
Applications available in the Keough Institute for Irish Studies 1146 Flanner Hall 
irishstu@nd.edu 



Monday, November 19, 200 I .,
The Observer . TODAY .page 23 
-----------------~-----------------------------------­
----~--------------------------------------------------------------------­
_____:::==---_---:_-_----:._-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_---:_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_---:_-_--___-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_­FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY 
IF JESUS WERE AUVE TODAY... 

YOU GOT A LICENSE 
RTLY AFTs:t MIRACULOUSLY TVRNI~ WATs:t INTO 
FOR THAT LIQUOR, BUDDY? 
WINE, JESUS IS BUSTED BY THE INDIANA STATE POLICE 


FOXTROT BICLAMEND 
OF HIS APPOINTED ,,. 
f 
YOU'VE oH, J'oY. GOT MAIL! 1  HOLD ON. NEITHER NET CONGESTION NOR DROPPED PACKETS NOR RoVTER FAILVRE NOR INFECTED ATTACHMENTS STAYS THIS COURIER FROM THE SWIFT COMPLETION  WHATEVER HAPPENED To "THANK You"?! i• ~ i; :i l•  ...OR 010 YOU NOT WANT THESE 7,52/o MESSAGES FROM THE XXX·HoT PSYCHIC MORT(;,AC,E CJ CORPoRATlON? ~ d  

ROUNDS, ANO ALL 
f I GET 1S 
"01-1, :Tor"?! 
RYAN
BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNINGHAM 
-· 

The "Hey at least it isn't crack" excuse, while a classic, has never proved successful. 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 35 Bit modifier 56 Some pens 1 1941 film noir 36 "W. C. Fields 57 How some hero and Me" star, medicines are 1976 to be used 
9 Hair band 37 Fertility clinic 58 Maximally sharp 
15 "Take my wife collection
... please!,• e.g. 
59 Like sultanas 16 Private 38 Pitch target 
17 Old Jeep model 40 Do laps, 
DOWN
perhaps18 Hoodwinked 1 Circulates

41 Weatherspoon19 They'll do for 

now of the W.N.B.A. 2 Surgeon's expertise: Abbr. 
42 Grammy20 Offenbach's "La category 3"Let_!"

Belle • 43 Lewis's mystery­4 Wasn't neat, in
21 Stamp feature, solving partner a way
to a philatelist 46 Its score scale 5 Sounded like
22 Tree with catkins is 120 to 180 sonar
23 No longer moved {by) 48 Cook up, so to 6 Within sight of, speak in verse
26 Take on, in dialect 50 Metal parts 7 Abeyant state fastener
30 Out, in a way 8 Slips or trips54 Rankle
31 Of a bank 9 Catch a few deposit? 55 Chatter box? rays? 
10 Glassworker, at times
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
........,,....,,~"T":"'r::"11"':'"1 11 More than full 
Puzzle by Jim Pege 
12 Cried harshly 31 Tip follower 44 1961 Newbery 50 They may offer..,.,...,.,...~~~~:-1 and raucously Medal winner rubdowns
32 Podunk, e.g.
51 Went on. 14 Figurehead? 45 Iterate 34 Follower of 52 Chemical 
23 They may be 47 "People"
Mary endings
..,......,,..""'"'4 crushing ·composer 
~.;.,;+,;,,+,~~~1-=-t-=+::-t-::~+=1":":,t-:1 24 Help 36 Picnic pests 
49 Once, once 53 Puts together 39 Comment from25 They're someone whoassociated with Answers to any three clues in this puzzle knows the licks and ticks are available by touch-tone phone: 
score? 27 "I'm outta here!" 1-900-420-5656 {95¢ per minute).
.................... 

40 Purse alternative 
28 Decide to rent Annual subscriptions are available for the 
-=+~-=+":"o+::+.:::+:~ 

42 Irritated 
best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
29 Bob Hoskins role of 1991 43 Irritates years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published l\1onday through Friday. The Observer is a vital source of infor1nation on p,~ople and events in the Notre Daine and Saint :\1ary's Con1tnunity. 
Join the n1ore than 13,000 readers who have found ThP ObservPr an indispensible link to the t\vo can1pusPs. Plnas(~ con1plete the acco111pa­nying f'onn and ,nail it today to receive Thn Observer in your hon1e. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and 111ail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Daine, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $95 for one acadernic year 
D Enclosed is $50 for one se1nester 
Na111e Address City ________ State ____ Zip~,______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON immediately: Make sure you have THIS DAY: Danny De Vito, Mar­all the pertinent facts before act­tin Scorsese, Lauren Hutton, Daisy ing. False information from some­Fuentes, Lorne Michaels, RuPaul one trying to start problems is 
Happy Birthday: Find satisfac­likely. Go directly to the source tion in pursuing your own inter­and be frank about what you've ests, not in watching others do the been told. 00 work. Don't overspend in the LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): process. If you are prudent and You'll be thinking about all sorts innovative, you will discover how of things today. Be careful. 1vfinor far you can stretch a dollar. Your mishaps will occur if you don't numbers:19,25,26,33,41,48 concentrate on what you are 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): doing.0000 • Have some fun. Make plans with SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): compatible friends. Meeting peo­Take care of personal papers your­ple will lead to interesting conver­seIf. Go over any contracts or sations and inspiring new ideas. agreements thoroughly before 00000 signing. You will be disappointed 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): if someone you trusted tries to Put in some extra work today. pull a fast one. 000 Don't lend or borrow. Get-rich­SAGfITARIUS (N°" 22-Dec 21}; quick schemes will not be success­You must act with compassion to ful. If you are late paying people avoid unpleasant encounters. back, you may have difficulties Being thouciltful and considerate with them. 000 will go much further than taking a 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): negative approach. The friendlier The more you achieve, the better you are, the more accommodating you will feel. Don't expect help others are likely to be. 000 and you won't be disappointed. CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): This is a day to work alone and Refuse to disagree with anyone reflect on what you want to do in who is baiting you. Don't confide the future. 000 in a relative who tends to meddle 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): in other people's affairs or you'll Being professional and industri­have to defend yourself. 000 ous will be crucial. Take care of the AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): extras. Advancement is possible if Get out and show everyone your you play your cards right. 000 proficiency in competitive events. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Make This is a great day to start anew by plans for a special outing with quitting a bad habit. Strong loved ones that is enjoyable, inex­willpower will come to your res­pensive and conducive to cue. 0000 strengthening family ties. If you PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): are single you can meet potential Romantic opportunities will be mates if you go out with friends plentiful if you· socialize with or take short pleasure trips. friends and are charming. If you 00000 are already in a relationship, plan 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): something very special for the two Take care of any issue that arises ofyou.00 
Birthday Baby: You are a powerhouse who will never back down, and you will always welcome a challenge, You are a hard-working cru­sader and a welcomed team player. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) © 2001 Universal Press Syndicate 
.. 


Campus Sports 
. 
Men's Basketball, p. 22 

. 
SMC Swimming, p. 18 

. 
Men's Swimming p. 18 



WOMEN'S SOCCER 
O
THE 

BSERVER 

Monday, November 19, 2001 
Campus Sports 
. Cross Country, p. 15 
. 
Women's Basketball, p. 19 

. 
lnterhall football, p. 16 



Irish season ends in upset loss 
ByJEFF BALTRUZAK 
Assistant Sports Editor 
In arguably the biggest upset ever against the Notre Dame women's soccer team 
I 
in NCAA College Cup play, 
the Irish's season ended
i 
I 
• t Sunday at Alumni Field in a
I \ 
heart-wrenching second ' 1 '1 round loss to unranked
I ) 
I I 
Cincinnati. 3-2.
I 
The Irish have failed to

'I 
advance to at least the quar­
i 
i I 
i i' terfinals of the College Cup, 
I 
! 
the tournament that deter­
I 
I I 
\ 
mines the NCAA champion.
\
I ) 
just once since 1993, when 
! 
Notre Dame lost 2-1 in the first round to George Mason.
I 
) , Notre Dame's home unbeat­
-~ en streak of 39 games, dating back to Sept. 3, 1999, was snapped by the Bearcats, who scored three times on just four shots on goal. 
Notre Dame head coach Randy Waldrum felt few things went right for the sev­enth-seeded Irish in a day that saw Notre Dame give up three goals for only the sec­ond time this season. 

"I don't think we were very good today in any phase. Defensively, where we've been strong for the last month, we had a couple of breakdowns," said Waldrum. 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
"When you give away a cou­
ple goals to a good team at 
this time of year, that's a 
problem." 
It ¼as clear that it would be 
an uphill fight for the Irish .early in the game. Just 12 minutes into the game, Cincinnati struck first when sophomore midfielder Rachel Lieberman ran down a save off Irish goalkeeper Liz Wagner on the left side of the net and put the ball in to put 
Cincinnati up 1-0. 
"I think we came out hard­
er, stronger, more focused," 
said Bearcat striker Amy 
Simonson, whose original 
shot setup Lieberman's first 
goal. "We knew what we 
were up against and we knew 
that hustling and being 
aggressive would get it 
done." 
Cincinnati continued to 
pressure the Irish, and it 
paid off again for both the 
Bearcats and Lieberman at 
the 17:02 mark. Simonson 
crossed a pass to Lieberman, 
again on the left side, capi­
talizing on an Irish defense 
breakdown that left 
Lieberman open for a shot 
that whizzed into the goal for 
Cincinnati's second score and 
a 2-0 lead. 
Irish defender Vanessa Pruzinsky moves the ball downfield during Sunday's 3-2 loss to see UPSET/page 19 Cincinnati in the second round of the NCAA Tournament. 

Irish take Big East title 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Sports Ediror 
PITTSBURGH First they looked unstop­P,able. Then they looked vul­
,· 
nerable. But at the end of the day Sunday, the Irish volley­ball team looked like Big East champions. 
Led by 19 kills on a .368 hitting percentage from fresh­man Emily Loomis, Notre Dame outlasted Georgetown 30-22, 24-30, 27-30, 30~20, 15-11 to take its sixth confer­ence tournament title since joining the Big East prior to the 1995 season. 

"It was definitely a tough match," Irish head coach Debbie Brown said after the match. "Coming in we knew that Georgetown was a very aggressive and strong serving team. We did have some trou­
., 
ble passing their serve and got into trouble." In the deciding game five of 
the match, the Irish got off to a startling 8-1 lead. But just when the Boyas looked like they were finally put to sleep, they rebounded to close Notre Dame's lead to 9-7. Then, Irish senior Kristy Kreher came up with a key solo block to give the Irish the serve and a 10-7 lead in the 15-point final game. 
"That's one of those where we're up but we're not exact­ly rolling," Brown said of the play. "She does that and that really took the wind out of their sails." 
After Notre Dame extended its lead to 12-7, Georgetown's Yulia Vtyurina, who finished with three aces in the match, regained the serve on a Marcie Bomhack hitting error. The Hoyas closed to within one. 
But Vtyurina's serve attempt to tie the match went out of bounds, putting the Irish up 13-11. Notre Dame reeled off the next two points to take the game, set, and conference title. 
Notre Dame hit .302 in the final game, led by senior Malinda Goralski's five kills. Goralski finished with 14 kills and five block assists in the match and was named the tournament's Most Outstanding Player. Goralski didn't have many chances early in the match, but made the most of her attempts at critical moments late. 
"I think earlier, our passing was so bad that it was hard for a middle hitter because when they hit at a quick tempo it's hard getting her the ball," Brown said. "Our passing got a lot better. which allowed us to get the ball to her." 
Notre Dame started the match off strong, holding Georgetown to .049 hitting as Loomis contributed six early kills and the Irish took a 5-1 
see VBALL/page 20 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Red Storm edge Irish in semifinals 
By CHRJS FEDERICO Sports Writer 
STORRS, Conn. 
It was just one goal, but it proved to be the deciding fac­tor in St. John's 1-0 victory over Notre Dame Friday night in the semifinals of the Big East Conference Tournament. 
Just 2:43 into the second half Red Storm forward Angel Rodriguez deflected a penalty kick from midfielder Jeff Matteo through a throng of players that snuck past Irish goalkeeper Chris Sawyer. 
"Their midfielder Matteo got out the ball in front of everybody. and one of their players got through," Sawyer said. "We couldn't get some­one in front of him, but I needed to react quicker and move faster." 
The direct penalty kick 
started just outside of the penalty box, and Notre Dame ha'd all of its players in to defend, but the effort was not enough as Rodriguez deflect­ed the ball right in front of Sawyer. 
"Right when [Matteo] hit it, he was so close, and there were so many people in the box that it was really hard to see the ball at first," Sawyer said. "And it was even tougher when [Rodriguez] deflected the ball." 
At the start of the game, St. John's attempted to strike quickly with some very aggressive play on offense, but the Notre Dame defense 
held up,  allowing only two  
shots on  goal in the entire  
half.  

For the most part, play in the first half was dead even 
see SOCCER/page 21 

. ND Cross Country at NCAA Championships, Today 
OBSERVER 
,, :)

. Men's Basketball vs. Cornell, Tonight, 7:30 p.m.
SPORTS 
o n Iin e e,dition 

. Women's Basketball at Colorado State, Wed., 7p.m.AT AGLANCE . Football at _Stanford, Saturday, 5 p.m. http://www.nd.edu/ ~observer 

O
THE 

Monday, November 19, 2001 BSERVER Notre Dame 34, Navy 16 
Senior mentality 

By ANDREW SOUKUP Associace Sports Editor 
Once again, the Irish were simply too big and too fast for the Midshipmen as Notre Dame won its 38th straight game against Navy. 34-16. 
"To be quite honest, we have better play­ers than Navy. but they do a heck of a job," said Notre Dame head coach Bob Davie. "I respect them and respect how they play." 
Navy managed to keep the game close for . most of the first half. They were tied with the Irish 10-10 at the end of the first quarter and trailed 17-13 at the half after driving 90 yards on their last possession of the first half. 
"I really think momentum was on our side at that point," said Navy interim coach Rick Lantz. "I wanted the kids to get something out of that drive. We thought very seriously about going for the touchdown, but we wanted to make sure we got something. I · did not feel confident that we could take another shot at the end zone and possibly come away with nothing." 
After Irish tailback Terrance I loward, who finL5hed vvith 12 carrip,5 for 54 yards, scored his second touchdown on an 8-yard run to put the Irish up 24-13, Navy drove down the field and had first-and-goal at the Notre Dame 4-yard line at the start of the fourth quarter. . 
But the Irish stopped Madden on three straight rushing attempts and the Midshipmen had to settle for a field goal. 
Irish overcome early scare to beat Navy in home finale 
"I don't know if we gave ourselve.s a chance down there. We were pretty conser­vative," said Navy quarterback Brian Madden. "We get the linebacker blocked, we walk in. They did a good job down there and stopped us when they had to." 
"They have a tough scheme," said Notre Dame defensive end Anthony Weaver, who finished with seven tackles. "Madden is a tal­ented ouarterback, and he wants to run the ball. In the second half, we refocused and shut them down for the most part." 
On the next possession, Notre Dame quar­terback Carlyle Holiday found tight end Gary Godsey, who led all receivers with two catches for 50 yards, for a 26-yard gain. The next play, tailback Julius Jones. who finished with 117 rushing yards on 24 carries, scored on a 44-yard touchdown run to give the Irish a 31-16 lead. Notre Dame never looked back. 
"It was good to see Julius Jones break out of there and have a big run," Davie said. "We were waiting for that to happen a!J sea­son and I think it was good for him." 
Navy stayed close to the Irish in the first half in part because of the play of Madden. The senior quarterback finished with 70 rushing yards on 22 carries and was 5-for­12 passing with one interception. 
Madden scored on a . 38-yard run late in the second quarter, a play that was set up by his 43-yard completion to Gene Heese the play before when Notre Dame's pass cover­age broke down. 
"We had a frustrating day on defense," Davie said. "A lot of things went wrong today, particularly at the safety position, and wound up giving them some big plays. But give credit to their quarterback, Brian Madden. He's a heck ofa player." 
"We messed up on some things that were just unacceptable," said Irish linebacker Tyreo Harrison, who led Notre Dame play­ers with nine tackles. "In the second half, we corrected a lot of mistakes. We knew the game was going to come down to big plays -if they were going to get any yards, it was going tu be on a big play, they couldn't do anything else to us." 
Navy has come close to ending its long los­ing streak to the Irish in recent years. Two years ago, a favorable spot on fourth down kept a game-winning Irish drive alive. Four years ago, Navy's Pat McGrew was knocked out at the Notre Dame 1-yard line as time expired. 
"When Navy again beats Notre Dame, which will happen, it will be a special situa­tion for all those kids," Lantz said. " ... I thought we were going to get it done for a long, long time and we didn't." 
"We really felt like we were going to come out in the second half and pull this sucker out." Madden said. 
The Irish scored the first touchdown of the game when nose tackle Cedric Hilliard hit Madden, forcing a fumble. Safety Gerome Sapp scooped up the loose ball and ran 39 yards untouched for the score to give the Irish a 10-0 lead just sLx minutes into the game. 
Nicholas Setta added field goals from 41 and 32 yards away. Sctta has now hit a field goal in his last 11 games, tying a record set by John Camey in 1986. 
With the win, the Irish managed to stay eligible for a bowl bid. The Irish must win their next two games at Stanford and Purdue in order to finish with a winning record. Because of their arrangements with the Big East, the lrL'ih might end up playing in either the Tangerine Bowl or the Music City Bowl assuming they finish with the required six wins. . . 
"Any time you play Navy, you know 1t IS going to be tough, but today we earned a victory," Jones said. "If we hadn't won today, it would have been a big dL'iappointment for us because we had two weeks to prepare for this game. We really needed this win." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 


quote of the game
player of the game 
stat of the game 

"I am really happy for our seniors. 
3 second half points 

Shane Walton 
After making things interesting 

They get to walk out ofNotre
The cornerback was all over the field 
Dame with their gold helmets held 
early, Notre Dame's defense 

Saturday. lie recorded one interception 
high . .,

and had another one called back after a 
completely shut down Navy in 
BobDavie

penalty. Walton finished with seven tack­
the second half. 

Irish head coach
les, three ofthem for losses, and a sack. 
I • 


Monday, November 19, 2001 

The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
report card 
quarterbacks: Holiday didn't do much 
B 
offensively. The interception wasn't 
his fault -Hunter ran the wrong 
route. It was nice to put Lovecchio in at the end, but what about Clark? 
running backs: Jones' fumble set up a
A-Navy field goal, but he redeemed himself with a long touchdown. Howard added a pair of scores in his best game of the season. 
B+ 
receivers: Hunter dropped one pass, but overall, the receivers played well. Of course, the ball wasn't thrown 
their way much. The tight ends were impressive. 
B+ offensive line: They gave up no sacks, and they did a good job. With two games to go in the season, Davie finally found 1.he top five linemen. 
A-
defensive line: Weaver was a factor the entire game, and Hilliard forced 
the fumble. Most of Navy's 177 rush­ing yards came on two big plays. 
linebackers: Harrison was solid as
A-
always and Watson had an intercep­
tion that was called back by penalty. 
They did a good job handing Navy's diverse scheme in the second half. 
defensive backs: Except for one series in 
B+ 
the first half, the secondary played great. 
Sapp returned the fumble for a touch­
down. and Walton was a factor keeping 
Madden from breaking big plays. 
special teams: Setta hit another pair of
B+field goals, and Hildbold had a great punt early in the game. Coverage units were good, but they still can't make a big play. 
coaching: Good creative play calling 
B 
by throwing to the tight ends and 
giving the ball to the fullbacks. But 
where were all the walk-ans at the end of the game? 
3.37 
overall: The Irish weren't stellar, but they didn't have to be -they were playing 0­9 Navy. They'll have to play better to make a bowl game. 
adding up the numbers 
Notre Dame pass attempts in the first } 
quarter -and it was intercepted 
5 
carries Mike McNair had Saturday, five more than he had his entire career 
receiving yards recorded by 
5Q

Godsey on two catches, his first catches of his career 
2 
Irish interceptions called back by defensive holding penalties 
penalties charged to Navy during 
Q

Saturday's game · 
2 
number of kickers who made the tackle on akickoff 
vacant yellow seats in the east sideline early in the fourth 
115 
quarter -guess rich people 
don't like good weather, either 
0 
number of sober seniors in the student section at Saturday's 
game 

IRISH INSIGHT 

The crowd roared as the final sec­onds of Notre Dame's 34-16 ticked off the twin scoreboards at each end of the stadium. Pardon Tony Weaver if he didn't quite notice when the game was over. 
He was too busy trying to soak everything else in. 
Two weeks ago, he col­lapsed to his knees as Casey Clausen ran 


around the Notre Dame Andrew Soukup defense for a 1­yard touchdown run to secure Associate Tennessee's vic­Sports Editor tory over the Irish. Saturday afternoon, he was acting differently. After Notre Dame's defense ran off the field, Weaver ran through the team and stood on a bench at the back of the Notre Dame sideline. During breaks in plays, Weaver spent more time staring around at the crowd than he did watching the field. He was trying to remember everything. The crowd, the announcer. the student section, the band, the students from Carroll Hall chanting his name, everything. "It's almost unbelievable, it feels like I walked in that door the other day," he said, pointing to the door of the locker room. Weaver was one of the first people off the bench to congratulate Navy. 
Then, he headed over to the student section to raise his gold helmet to the sky for the final time. 
Terrance Howard was among the group of people playing his final game in Notre Dame Stadium. Howard will be the first to say that his career hasn't been what he wanted it to. He had worked hard to get into a position where he could 
.. 
get more carries, and was the start­ing tailback entering Notre Dame's season opener. 
But against Nebraska, Howard fumbled the ball on the first offen­sive play for the Irish -quite possi­ble the play that set the tone for the rest of the season -and was benched. He saw spot playing time the next few games and only had one touchdown before Saturday. 
Against Navy, however, his redemption came full circle. Howard, scored on touchdown runs of 4 and 8-yard runs to leave Notre Dame Stadium with a sweet taste in his mouth. 
"I couldn't imagine a better way to leave," he said. 
"There's some character on this. football team, and he's a good example of that," Bob Davie said. " ... He's overcome a lot of things, and that's why he played today." 
Then there's the saga of Mike McNair, who was the top recruit in Notre Dame's class of 2002 four years ago. But every single time McNair walked out of Notre Dame Stadium -or any stadium, for that matter -he had yet to carry the ball. 
That changed against Navy. McNair carried the ball not once, not twice, but five times, gaining 15 yards. Every time his name was announced as the ball-carrier, the student section loudly cheered him. 
After the game, he didn't reflect on what could have been. Instead, he was just glad he got in the game. 
Grant Irons was also among the. group of seniors raising their hel­mets for the final time. Irons' career was riddled with injuries. But his sincere, hard-working attitude was well-documented. When he was sidelined for the season with a shoulder injury last year, Irons would still show up to practice every day with his helmet and shoulder pads on. If ever a player personified the hard-working attitude of Notre Dame football, it was Irons. 
Saturday wasn't about Bob Davie. Saturday wasn't about Notre Dame's sub-.500 record. Saturday wasn't about offensive woes or defensive breakdowns. 
Saturday was about the seniors and their families. 
"It was very important to win this garne for the seniors," Carlyle Holiday said. "It was a big thing." 
"I am really happy for our seniors," Davie said. "They get to walk out of Notre Dame Stadium with their gold helmets held high. They've invested a lot in this football team. They get to walk out of here feeling positive and being with the people they love." 
Feeling positive doesn't quite describe what Weaver felt. Then again, he couldn't pick a word to describe his emotions, either. 
As the players began to lower their helmets, Weaver bounded to the front of the team. He raced clos­er and closer to the students until only the brick wall separated him from the fans. 
"He was so excited, he just wanted to get closer and closer," said Tyreo Harrison, who was close behind Weaver. "If you know him, you know his emotions are catchy." 
And while most of the team walked into the tunnel, \.Veaver,. Harrison, McNair, Irons, Howard and the rest of the 38 Irish seniors stayed on the field savoring their last moments as players in one of college football's most hallowed sta­diums. 
They forgot about the 4-5 record. They forgot about the 34-16 win. They forgot about the calls for Davie's job. 
They remembered everything else. 
Andrew Soukup can be reached at asoukup@nd.edu. The views ofthis column are those ofthe author and are not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


Monday, November 19, 200 I 
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Irish overcome injuries with help from new faces 
By KATIE McVOY Asso..:i;H<:: Spons Editor 
Coing into Saturday's ga.nw against Navy. tlw starting linP-up ,,w; looking shaky. l[1jury sidPli1wd snwn VNPran lri-.h playPrs, indud­ing tailback Tony Fislwr. fullback Jason Mun11y and llankPr David Givens. \Vith that kind of dbadvantagP !wading into thP game\ 1•vP11 an 0-8 tPam had iL-; rhances. But for sev­Pral Irish pla.y1•rs. the injuriPs \\'Pi'P tlwir rhanrP to stPp onto tlw fif~ld and g<'t thP job dorn•. 
"I think \\I' addPd up. WP had s1•vl'n st.artt•rs out for this game." !wad coach Bob I>aviP said. "ThosP guys got an opportunity to play." 
And play tlwy did. 
Rushing 
\\'ith Fislwr siclPlined with a hamstring i11jury. junior Julius Jones could have had a lot of work to do alone. But the Irish didn't IPaV<' him running alonP. thny canw as a pack. 
Sc•nior tailback T1•rrancp Howard. who hadn't S<'Pn much playing tinw since> hr fum­blPd tlw ball during Notre Danw's op,,ning loss to NPbnL-.ka. st.artPd gf'tting yards for tlw Irish latP in tlw lirst quartPr. On tlw final hi-.h drivl' of tlw quartPr Iloward, who rushPd for 54 yards in th<' ganw. pkkcd up 20 yards for tlw Irish on two cons<icutive carriPs bnforn CarlylP Iloliday w,L"i int.erceptl'd. 
"I told my \-\'iii· wlwn I WPnt homP that I foe! good about this wePkPnd," Howard said. "Today, it shm,•pd that I was rnally foding good." 
Onn• Howard got in tfo, game, Im proV<~d a valuablf' assPt. In tlw sncond quart.Pr he acldPd a four-yard touchdown run that brok,• tlw 10-10 til' and put tlw Irish back on top. In rir.s in thP fourth quarter. l\kNair, who was game. Bodamer caught a seven-yard pass Honnie Israel at free safety and then Justin quar\Pr tlm•P lw addPd anothc>r Notn' DamP highly touted as a freshman. had the first from IIoliday in the second quarter, that w,L.., Smith came in." touchdown on an !'ight-yard carry: As a carry of his career on Saturday. Ile rushed for followed shortly aftc~r by a complete pass to \Vith Dykes and Earl out of the game, Davie s,•nior. Howard rouldn 't havP w,kPd for morP. 1-5 yards. Lopienski. Campbell snagged a 32-yard pa"i.-. did worry. But the new faces on defense 
"I couldn't inm1-,rirw a b<~tkr way Ito (•ndl." Freshman Hyan Grant also saw some play­from I Ioliday on an important third and 14 made the important plays, just like the lw said. "For thP p,L-;t ynars. rv,~ always had a ing limP in the fourth quarter. that set up a tie-breaking Notre Dame touch­oflense. good gam<' against Navy." dovm. vVith Israel and Smith playing free safety, 
But lloward W,L"in't tlw only Irish playPr to "It ww, good to sec Carlos Campbdl make a junior Gerome Sapp added a new role to hi-.
Passing

add somP un<'xpc•rt<~d rushing yards. catch," Davie said. "I le took advantage of his resume, scorer. In the first quarter, Sapp
Hushing W,l-.n't thr. only place players found 
Fullback Tom Lopit'nski, who saw playing opportunity to play." mcov,~md a li..tmblr, and returned the ball 39
thPmsPlV1's in rww roles. As I lolidav looked
mon• playing tirnn dtw to .Jason Murray's In that sarrn1 seiics, IIoliday found tight end yards for the lirst lri-;h scorn of thP game. It
dmvn the liPld, 11<' saw soml' dillen;nt facr.s
injuriPs. also add,1d sonw rushing yards. John Owens open for a 16-yard pass. Owens, wa.-; aL">o Sapp's first can~er touchdown. I lb
looking bm'.k at him.
In a third quart<ir drive that PndPd 111 who has -had three receptions this season, roommatn, had sent him into Saturday's
Flanknr David Giwns. who h,L-; been a go-to
Ilmrnrd's tourhdown run, tlw Irish rwndPd w,L.., on tlw other side of the ball last season. A game with a fow words ofadvice.
1mm for the lri-;h, found himsdf' on the side­
mw yard to rnnwrt on third down. I ,opiPnski conw~rtPd defensive lineman, Owens had not "[Ile] basically told us to play yard and we
line with a hamstring i,~jury. And alt.hough
got tlwm :B. caught a p,l"iS until thL<., se.L-;on. woll,ld tall into place," Sapp said. "As far as
vvidc n•ceiver Javin Ilunter caught hb shan•
\\'hPn ,L-;kPd ·about how it li•lt to g<'t sonw safety, we had Hon Israel, Justin Smith,
of passc~s. he had company. In addition to
playing tinw lw simply n'spondPd. ·:;ust k(~l'p myself. \Ve felt we had enough to compete
Hunter. !iv,• Irish players caught a pass in Defense 
on working hard for four yPars and wait for and we did compete." 
Saturday's game. including Omar Jenkins While new faces took the field on olfomm,
your opportunity." 
and Lopienski. the defonse called up dilforent ta.lent as well.
I ,opirm.;ki had 2 carries for 3(> yards. 
Frnshman Carlos Campb{,)l and sophomore "I was concerned going into this game
To \\Tap up tlw rn'\\-' farns that carrit>d tlw HonniP Hodamer both logged their first career because Donald Dykes and Glenn Earl our Contact Katie McVoy atball. senior MikP McNair h'l·abb(~d thn'I' car­rPcPptions in thP second quarter ofSaturday's two free safoties." Davie said. "We played mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18  AP poll team record Miami (52) 9·0 Nebraska (20) 11-0 Florida 9-1 Oklahoma 10-1 Texas 9·1 Oregon 9·1 Tennessee 8-1 Maryland 10-1 BYU 11-0 Illinois 9-1 Michigan 8-2 Washington 8-2 Stanford 7-2 Colorado 8·2 Washington State 9-2 Virginia Tech 8·2 Louisville 10·1 South Carolina 8·3  points 1,777 1,746 1,615 1,613 1,519 1,404 1,372 1,197 1,188 1,130 1,103 987 958 867 788 657 609 575  scoring summary & stats scoring 1st 2nd :Jrd 4th Total 34Notre Dame 10 7 7 10 10 3 0 3 16Navy team statistics ND NAVY first downs 18 14 rushes-yards 58-272 45-177 passing yards 118 123 comp-att-int 7-12-1 7-18-1 rnturn yards 157 125 punts-yards 3-139 6-274 fumbl<is-lost 2-1 3·2 penalties-yards 4.33 0-0 time of possession 33:54 26:06 individual statistics passing ND -Holiday 6-11·1, Lovecchio 1·1·0 NA FY.-Madden 5-12-1, Candela 2_-5-0, Malinowski 0-1-0  scoring summary 1st Nil -10:29 FG Sella 41-yd., 3-0 ND -9:03 Sapp 39-yd. fumble recovery Setta kick, 10-0 NAVY -4:07 Madden 38-yd. run Hills kick, 10-7 NAVY· 4:07 FG Hills 24•yd., 10·10 2nd Nil -10:46 Howard 4-yd. run Sella kick, 17-10 N,\\'Y · 0:22 FG Hills 22-yd., 17·13  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18  ESPN/USA Today poll team record points Miami{33) 9·0 1,468 Nebraska (25) 11·0 1.462 Florida (1) 9-1 1,352 Oklahoma 10-1 1,327 Texas 9-1 1,257 Tennessee 8·1 1,161 Oregon 9·1 1,149 BYU (1) 11-0 1,042 Maryland 10-1 1,006 Illinois 9-1 934 Michigan 8·2 930 Washington 8-2 842 Stanford 7-2 750 Colorado 8·2 673 Virginia Tech 8·2 650 Washington State 9·2 603 Louisville 10-1 557 South Carolina 8-3 465  ...  
19 20 21 22 23 24  Georgia Marshall Georgia Tech Syracuse Fresno State Arkansas  6-3 9-1 7-3 8·3 9·2 7-3  434 354 284 272 207 189  rushing NIJ -Jones 24-124, Howard 12-54, Holiday 11·61, Lopienksi 2· 36, McNairS-15, Grant3·11, Battle 1·(·7) ,\'A\/}' ­Reese 8·72, Madden 22-70, Lane 5-28, Terrell 4·8 receiving  3rd \ll -4:29 Howard 8-yd. run Sella kick, 24-13 4th  19 20 21 22 23 24  Georgia Tech Marshall Syracuse Fresno State Georgia Auburn  7.3 9-1 8-3 9-2 6-3 7-3  360 318 258 221 190 90  
25 Boston College 7-3 148 other leading vote getters: Auburn 85, Florida State 61, Purdue 57, Toledo 50, LSU 40, Texas A&M 27, N.C. State 25, UCLA 13, USC 13, NOTRE DAME 0  ND -Godsey 2-50, Hunter 2-13, Campbell 1-32, Owens 1-16, Rodamer 1-7 NA n-· -Gaddy 3-41, Reese 1-43, Minter' 1-19, Bailey 1·11 leading tacklers ND -Harrison 9, Weaver 7, Walton 7, Watson 6  NAVY -13:11 FG Hills 20-yd., 24-16 l\ll -12:10 Jones 44-yd. run Sella kick, 31-16 Nil -5:02 FG Sena  25 Arkansas 7-3 74 other leading vote getters: Bosfon College 64, Florida State 61, Toledo 51, Purdue 48, Texas A&M, LSU 40, North Carolina 12, NOTRE DAME 0  
NAVY ­ Elliott 13, Thomas 13, Brindel 7, Clarkson 6  32-yd., 34-16  



O
THE 

Notre Dame 34, Navy 16 BSERVER Monday, November 16, 2001 
SINKING 
NAVY'S 
SEASON 

Notre Dame safety Gerome Sapp picks up a fumble as Anthony Weaver lunges for the ball. Sapp returned the ball 39 yards to give the Irish a 10-0 lead less than six minutes into the game. 
Not only did the Irish win their 38th consecutive game against the Midshipmen, but 
they sent Navy to 0-9 -their worst record in a half-century. The Midshipmen gave the Irish an early scare by tying the game at 10-10 at the end of the first quarter and trailing 17-13 at the half. But then Notre Dame outscored Navy 17-3 in the second half and the game was over. 
. 

Photos by 
NELLIE WILLIAMS 
! 
r 
! 
; .-~ 
Notre Dame tailback Julius Jones hurdles the line of scrimmage during Saturday's game. Jones finished with 117 yards on 24 carries. 










