
.... 
Car bomb in Israel 
Welcome parents
A car bomb in Jerusalem injured one person 
In honor ofSophomore Parents Weekend at 

Friday
Thursday. The violence followed the 
Saint Mary ·s. The Observer welcomes all guests 
Wednesday election ofAriel Sharon. 
arriving on campus. 
FEBRUARY 9,
World & Nation . page 5 
2001 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary\' 
VOL XXXIV NO. 84 
HTTP://OBSERVER.N D. 



Grade level plays role in choosing running mates 
Editor's note: This is the fifth of a five-part series examining different issues in this year's student body election. 
By MIKE CONNOLLY News Writer 
Most people would agree that issues and ideas of a candidate should be the deciding factor in who gets elected in any cam­paign. In student government elections, oftentimes who you know plays as much of a role as what you want to do. Choosing a president .and vice president from different classes can help a ticket spread its appeal to more students. 
Ryan Becker, a junior presi­dential candidate from Zahm Hall. said Nikki McCord 's sophomore status played a role 
in selecting her  as his vice  
president.  
"It  definitely  played  a  

part,"he said. "She can bring in a whole different group of peo­ple. I know the juniors better from class and class govern­ment and she knows the sopho­mores better. More people can say. 'I know those people.' Having a sophomore is a great benefit." 
Current student body vice president and candidate for president Brooke Norton said the appeal of split ticket goes beyond just the election. Norton, who was elected to her post as a junior. said the differ­ent experiences of Brian O'Donoghue, a senior, and her­self make their administration more effective. 
"The ticket is more represen­tative of the student body,"Norton said. "In office this year, it helped us because we were going through differ­ent things. I could relate to the younger students because I had just been there while Brian could better relate to the seniors." 
O'Donoghue echoed Norton's sentiments. 
"My perspective was often very different from Brooke's," he said. "The perspective of a senior is very different from 
see CLASS/page 4 

MOLLY WALSH/The Observer 

Candidates Demetra Smith (left) and Yogeld Andre (right), both Juniors, have tried to Increase their voting base by meeting as many students as possible, even In their dorm rooms. 
Bush eyes faith-based programs 
Editor appoints 3 to 
. Notre Dame ACE 

top Observer posts 
director to aid 
By NELLIE WILLIAMS 
Ireland Ct,rrespondenr 
Noreen Gillespie has been rehired as Managing Editor of The Observer for the 2001­2002 school year, Editor in Chief Mike Connolly announced Thursday. 
B o b 
Woods and K e r r y S m i t h were also chosen as Business Manager and Assistant Managing Editor, respectively. 
Gillespie, a sociology and political science major at Saint Mary's, served as Managing Editor for the 2000-2001 school year. She previously served as Saint Mary's Editor in 1999-2000, and worked as an intern at The Connecticut Post in Bridgeport, Conn., this sum­mer. 
"Noreen has proven to be a invaluable asset to this news­room," Connolly said. "She is an excellent leader who con­sistently makes intelligent decisions." 



President's efforts 
Gillespie will be responsible 
for managing editorial deci­
sions at the paper and over­
seeing all editorial staff. 
By KIFLIN TURNER "Working with this year's 
News Writer 

editorial board and their staffs has been one of the 
Why was John Staud, director most rewarding experiences I of Notre Dame's Alliance for
have had at The Observer." 
Catholic Education (ACE), invit­the junior from Sandy Hook, 
ed by President Bush last
Conn. said. 

Wednesday to discuss theWoods, a sophomore from 
implementation of the adminis­Springfield Pa., served as the tration's faith-based service ini­controller for The Observer in tiatives?
2000-2001. 

ACE, a two-year program that He is an accounting major sends Notre Dame graduates to
and a Management teach in under-resourced
Information Systems minor. 
Catholic schools, has achievedHe will be in charge of pay­great success in furthering per­
roll and budgeting for The 
sonal improvement for childrenObserer. 
whose educational experienceSmith, a junior government might have been weakened by
and CAPP major. served as 
understaffed schooling. Staud
sports editor for the 2000­
cited the achievements of the
2001 school year and will 
organization as the reason whyassist Gillespie with all edito­he was chosen as a representa­
rial decisions as well as 
tive.

working closely with new 
"Obviously ACE has been very 
writers and training staff 
successful and we've been
members. 
blessed with the stellar appli­"I have enjoyed my term as cants and participants, and so ISports Editor and I am eager knew that was sort of the rea­
to work with the newspaper 
son, but still when you consider
in a different capacity," the 
that it was a national meeting.
junior from Kennebunk. 
it was really flattering for theMaine said. 
program, I think, more that
Gillespie, Woods and Smith anything." · 
will assume their positions 
Along with Staud were repre­after spring break. 
sentatives from more than 50 organizations representing Catholic service programs nationwide. The funds will sup­port educational programs to those similar to ACE, as well as other social programs that will combat drug addiction, alco­holism, and other social prob­lems in the community. 
The goal of the initiatives is to enhance the efficiency of pre­existing programs and to ensure that religious•based organizations will not suffer dis­crimination from federal fund­ing. 
"[Bush] wants to try to tap into the successful work that a lot of faith­
tiatives may be problematic when faced with the possible legal challenges of infringing on the separation of church and state constitutional amendment. 
"There can't be a government religion, but as long as the gov­ernment is dispersing money fairly and allowing access to all religious traditions, I think it's a good idea because often these groups achieve greater results," said Staud. "I think there are models out there that have met the legal concerns and the ideo­logical ones as well that we can point to, and ACE would be one of these." 
Faced with the possibility that 
the initiatives 

based organiza­tions are already doing,"  "[Bush] wants to try to tap into the  may face legal resistance, Bush vowed that the  
said Staud. "It's  successful work that  careful  imple­ 
not as though he wants to use this as a way to have govern­ment exit from  a lot offaith-based organizations are already doing.··  mentation would ensure the sue­. cess of religious­based organiza­tions. Staud said  
its responsibili­ties. but it's rather a chance  John Staud ACE director  that Bush's point is that religious organizations  
to  just  allow  shouldn't be dis­ 
groups  that  c rim in ate d  

have achieved great success to against, especially if they're compete for federal monies, so achieving great results. long as there's an appropriate "There are some models that firewall set up so that those have proven to work, and I monies don't influence evange­think that one of the reasons lization or prostelytizing." that ACE might be a valuable 
Many critics to Bush's plan 
see ACE/page 4 

believe that the faith-based ini­

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Friday, February 9, 200 I 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Learning the ropes 
As a second semester freshman, I've adjusted to my new home at Notre Dame. I've discovered the campus' hidden secrets -that O'Shag and O'Shaughnessy really are the same building, that no matter how much we North and Mod Quad dwellers claim North is equal, South Dining Hall is Scott really better, and that light• Brodfuehrer ening doesn't strike when someone breaks parietals. 
Wire Editor 
These discoveries, and many more, haven't come from official University seminars designed to acclimate me to "college life," but instead have come from walking around campus for five months, talking to upperclassmen and making mistakes. 
That's why I cringe when I hear student gov­ernment talking about more orientation sessions for future freshmen, or even modification ofthe current ones. By the end of orientation, freshmen are exhausted and sick ofhearing from every campus leader. and scarily enough, actually look­ing forward to the first day of classes. The truth of the matter is that I don't remember a thing from these sessions now. The only lasting image I have is being scared out of my whits in Washington Hall when the honesty committee shared a story of a professor who turned in a stu­dent for a violation when he accidentally didn't cite a sentence from his textbook in a paper. 
Instead of modifying the current orientation sessions, why not get rid of them altogether? Freshmen will always make mistakes, regardless of the number of orientation sessions they attend. What would be more worthwhile would be the upperclassmen in their section talking to them for a half an hour, or professors speaking for 10 min­utes at the beginning ofthe first class about the honor code. 
To add insult to injury, some "mandatory" ori­
entation sessions take place well into the academ­
ic year and some freshman are still attending 
these seminars now. I'm sure the people running 
these sessions, like the diversity seminar, are well 
intentioned, but all of my peers I have talked to 
resent this intrusion into their daily lives, which 
has settled down since moving in. The reasoning 
of these groups might be that freshman are more 
willing and able to talk seriously about issues on 
campus when they've had time to experience 
them. Rather than coming in ready to talk and lis­
ten, freshmen are angry that they have to come to 
the session, and if they don't go, they are threat­
ened by the hall staff with a make-up session that 
is at least twice as long. 

The best freshman orientation suggestion I 
have heard is a campout suggested by some of 
the candidates for this year's presidential elec­
tion. This would be a meaningful experience that 
allows freshman to meet some other students 
other than the superficial "Name, hometown and 
major" that dominated this year•s orientation. 
I challenge anyone who makes decisions about 
freshman orientation to consider not what they 
think a freshman ideally should learn in their first 
days ofcollege life, but instead what their orien­
tation experience was like, and how they felt sit­
ting through the numerous required sessions. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Scene  
Jason McFarley  Amanda Greco  
Anne Marie Marcingly  Graphics  
Scott Brodfuehrer  Jose Cuellar  
Sports  Production  
Kerry Smith  Andrew Soukup  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Pat Kelly  Angela Campos  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday lhrough Friday cxccp[ during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
THIS WEEK IN ND/SMC HISTORY 
Friday, February 4, 1977 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students prepared for the closing of Corby's when the owner of the property on which the bar was located denied to renew owner Roger Stouffer's lease. The tavern, which has been in operation since 1963, reopened under new management on March 1 following nearly a month of internal renovations and staffing changes. The new owners also planned to increase the bar's food sales so they remain open on Sundays. 
Friday, February 8, 1991 Notre Dame students from the group known as Students Uniting For Respect (SUFR) demonstrated at a meeting of the Board of Trustees to stress the need for increased cultural diversity on campus. The group protested in part because the Board was slated to con­sider a report on race relations on campus, including aspects of intellectual and economic life, as well as the University's racial harassment policy. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
PETA protests Youngstown State Burger King 
In conjunction with its slaughter­
all innocent People for the Ethical house prac­lives," Kuzma Treatment of Animals tices, according s a i d . {PETA), the Youngstown to PETA's Web "Responsibility State University s i t e is in our hands Environmental and Animal www.peta.org. to treat [ani­Rights Coalition (YSEARC) YSEARC, a mals) as we is sponsoring a demonstra-registered stu­ourselves tion today outside a local dent organiza­would like to Burger King restauraunt. tion. is joining be treated." 
The demonstration is the PETA cam­Kuzma said part of PETA's internation-paign on a local he started al campaign against the level. YSEARC to fast food chain. PETA is a Dan Kuzma, help promote non-profit organization a Youngstown awareness of that advocates vegetarian-State freshman. vegetarianism ism and animal rights. . environmental and veganism 
PETA launched a similar studies. is president and in the area. Adherents of campaign against founder of the organiza-veganism, which is similar McDonald's that resulted tion. to vegetarianism, do not in the company reforming "I have compassion for consume, use or wear ani­mal products. 
As well as staging demonstrations. Kuzma said members also have social events in the area. 
Members go to restau­rants in the area that are "vegetarian friendly" and try new foods that are made without animal products. 
YSEARC Vice President James Douglass, sopho­more, biological sciences, said the organization is aimed at promoting animal rights and environmental concerns in a peaceful manner. He also said stu­dents need not be vegan or vegetarian to join. 
VIRGINIA TECH 
Volunteers examine 'Art of Kissing' 
Virginia Tech students who attended a seminar Wednesday night were schooled in the ways of the kiss. "The Art of Kissing" was presented Wednesday night by William Kane, a professor at Boston College and author of the book "The Art of Kissing." "Folks, this is a sex show," Kane said as the presentation began. "I can't promise I'll show you how to have an orgasm, but we're going to show you everything else." Kane had six student volunteers kiss in differ­ent scenarios, including a dentist's office, a barber­shop and a car. to explain how students should kiss differently in different places. "You have such a romantic campus here," Kane said. "There are so many places to kiss here." He explained there are­many types of kisses. There are Eskimo kisses, upside-down vacuum kisses, lipsuction kisses, kissing to the beat of music and French kisses, Kane said. In one scenario, Kane had the girls climb on top of the guys and kiss them on the neck while the guys spanked them. 
LOCAL WEATHER 

UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA-DULUTH 

MTV seeks 'Spring Break' travellers 
Two casting directors from MTV were in Duluth Monday scouting potential candidates for their upcoming Spring Break Tour in Acapulco and Cancun. The direc­tors, Shadow Holden and Brendon Blincoe, said they wanted to branch out and test campuses they've never been to. The University of Minnesota-Duluth was also chosen because its spring break, March 12 through 16, coincides with MTV's. The directors were on campus during the day a local restauraunt ag night. The turnout at the restauraunt was considerably low with only six groups showing up in more than three hours. "We have about two and a half weeks to get this [taping candi­dates] done, and we really didn't have much time to pro­mote anything," Holden said. The directors only figured out late Saturday they would be making an appearance in Duluth. They called on Saturday because they were looking for a spot that would fit their format," said restauraunt manager Mark Rykal. "I wasn't sure what to expect, they didn't do a whole lot of advertising so I knew it wouldn•t be too huge." 
NATIONAL WEATHER 


STAT10NIIRY 

®-© D.D. LlJD 

High L-Showera Rain T-atomw Fl""'-Snow loe \lloJliuod,i--­
Atlanta 66 48 Fort Worth 56 30 Kansas City 23 16 Boston 39 37 Gainesville 77 56 Las Vegas 52 40 Chicago 48 17 Honolulu 78 70 Minneapolis 22 1 New York 57 50

Friday, February 9, 2001 page 3
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 






Feminist Hardjng discusses women in science 
By MOLLY McVOY 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Science benefits from women as much as women benefit from sci­ence, according to renowned femi­nist Sandra Harding, who spoke at Saint Mary's Thursday night. 
"We know science benefits women, because, in science, we [as women] too have the opportunity to enjoy the exciting and pleasurable work that is involved in scientific fields," Harding said. "But, that is not the focus of my talk. We know that involvement in science can benefit women; I will focus on how women in science can benefit the sciences." 
Harding, a scientific theorist, spoke Thursday on the topic of how science improves as the number of women scientists improves. She explained that science must improve on the "recruitment and retention" of women in order to maintain integrity, expand its inves­tigations and further understand science's place in today's society. 
First, she explained that including women in the sciences increases the talent to draw from. 
"We add women's skills and tal­ents to the pool," she said. "Women are half the human pool of skills and talents." 
More specifically, in order to retain its reputation and keep its legitimacy, science must include women in fields like physics, biolo­gy, chemistry, engineering and medicine. According to Harding, science has always been looked upon as logical and reasonable. If discriminations based on gender continue in the scientific communi­ty, science's reputation for logic and reason will come into question. 
"Science and technology are con­sidered a paradigm of objectivity and rational thought." Harding said. "Their legitimacy as that para­digm is questioned when these pat­terns of discrimination continue." 
In addition to including women to save its reputation. the scientific community benefits from women by their ability to expand and diversify the content of scientific inquiry and scientific practices. She explained women do not only bring the ability to do the science that men have tra­
ditionally done; they bring the ability to do new and different types of science. 
"Historically, the argument for end­ing discrimination in science and medicine is that we will do just the same science as men," Harding said. "It turns out, we lied. Women in 
science and engineering bring dis­tinct contributions to the fields." 
She explained that in the same way people from different cultural backgrounds bring different per­spectives to their work, women often bring different perspectives thanmen. 
"Are there any differences that can be exploited by science and engineering and medicine?" she asked. 
Harding explained that it is not the nature of women to be funda­mentally different from men, but, that their unique life experiences often bring fresh perspectives and ideas to their work. These different 

APARTMENTS 
Castle Point Select Units .A.vailable for Next Semester 
::•within Minutes of Campus)z­-Spacious one and tw-o bedroom apartments, some w-ith lofts and dens. -Includes membership in the new-Castle Point Racquet Club and Fitness.Center. 
~t 
f' -­

Both Nights BOWLING-•---;· 
l5T 350 STUJEMS 
. i°::::~~~118~':11lq
/\Df\NTTEO FiilEE GREEN 
1st 100Students _ FRJ DAY & RDAY FEB. 9TH & 1 receive free pizza ~ \1st ~ f":<!11 ~~ ND Ice Scrapers 



@IIJ'trlrut~ ~;~~ ~=:~:~k~i~~a~:.~~c:!"7 
~Ylt;"J Nyd :, .'. . ~~~ . -·---~--~ 
~--------•----r-~··tst 500 fans·-•~ ND Bem Bag Bears Ist Io~:-­Sat~a'Y c,m:u,Tc,Ti-. lllu1s1er to win a DVD Plaver & 27' TV 
"We know that 
involvement in science 
can benefit women; I 
will focus on how · 
women in science can 
benefit the sciences. .. 
Sandra Harding feminist and scientific theorist 
backgrounds and points of view will lead to different types of research and investigations. 
"We know science should value cognitive diversity -new ideas that come from outside the main­stream gender differences are a sit­ting pool of diversity that science can benefit from." 
Finally, Harding explained that in order to more fully understand how the scientific community fits into society as a whole, women must be included. 
"We now understand that its cul­
ried out, according to Harding. Theories and ideas must not only be proYed in science, but also accepted. Including women in the pool of scientists forces the commu­nity to evaluate the standards by which they look at scientific theo­ries and the scientists themselves. 
''By looking from a women's per­spective, we start to understand the conceptual framework of science," she said. "It's a chance to ask new questions about women's lives, men's lives and the relationship between them. But, most impork tantly, it's a chance to ask about the conceptual framework that forms the scientific body of knowledge." 
tures, not individ­uals that produce ideas," Harding said. "Data has to be confirmed and theories must be agreed with. Science is a social organization." 
Women  force  
scientists  to  
examine  social  

beliefs that are a foundation of how research is car­


I _1 
DOROTl-4Y CARDER/The Observer 
Sandra Harding, a well-known femir?~st and scientific theorist, spoke about women's role in the sciences Thursday night. She said women benefit from Involve­ment in. science and science 1,enefits from female 
participation. 
Turn to The Observer for ­your daily source of 
campus news. 


page 4 

The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 9, 200 I 


Class 
continued from page 1 
that of a junior. A senior often looks back at his time at Notre Dame and ahead to his future, He is very much in a transition stage. A junior is more ground­ed in the present at Notre Dame.'' 
Norton chose sophomore Brian Moscona as her running 

mate. She said she chose him so
"/ understand that 
only because he could do a decide her Yogeld and I good job but admitted that vote strictly people will look for have been trying being a sophomore could help on class sta­people they know so to meet as many him be a more effective vice tus. people as possi­
Yogeld and I have been 
president. H o l t ble," Smith said. "From my experiences this Zeidler and trying to meet as many "I think it helps year, I knew it would help us to Allison people as possible." being a senior be in different classes and have Henisey. and knowing the different experiences," she both juniors, school better 
Demetra Smith 
said. · believe their but it also helps Not all the candidates believe experience presidential candidate being abroad. It 
ence between sophomores and seniors." 
Demetra Smith and Yogeld Andre admit that both being juniors and studying in France last year limits the number of students they know but have made a concerted effort to meet more people this campaign. They also said they have a unique perspective of Notre Dame. 
"I understand that people will 
look for people 
they know 

that a split ticket is necessary makes them to win the election however. the best Chris Zimmerman and Andy ticket. 
Nelson, both sophomores from "I think it offers an extra year 
Fisher Hall, believe they have of experience -especially for enough personal connections in the vice president. It's impor­other classes to win the elec­tant to have an experienced 
person leading senate," Zeidler

tion. "We personally have a lot of said. sophomore friends but we also McCord, the current senator for Pasquerilla East, said it was
have a lot of junior friends and more important for a candidate
freshman friends who are going to help us through word of to have student senate experi­mouth with their friends," ence than just be a year older. She thinks her two years of stu-
Zimmerman said. "With the 

Notre Dame  dent  govern­ 
dorm situa­tion with all  "From my experiences  ment experi­ence make her  
the classes integrated, I don't think it makes much  this year, I knew it would help us to be in different classes and have  capable of leading senate next year. "No matter  
of a ence."  differ­ different experiences. •·  what year you are, the experi­ 
Students say personal  Brooke Norton  ence of being a senator makes  
connections  presidential candidate  you more  pre­ 
are important  pared to lead  
but its more  student senate  

if you are elected," she said. important to be a recognizable 
Nelson stresses that experi­
person with good ideas rather ence isn't everything, however. than a classmate. "Some people may think that"I think that it makes a differ­
we don't know Notre Dame
ence if you know him, you will because we aren't upper class­be more likely to vote for him 
men but I think that's false.
because you know what he 
Good ideas are good ideas," hestands for," Catie McCracken, a said. "Obviously you grow over
sophomore from Badin. She 

your four years here but I think ·added that knowing a candi­it is hard to see a real differ-date can also lead a student to 
let's us know 

about Notre Dame in a larger context." 
McCord said being a sopho­more gives her one of the best perspectives of student life at Notre Dame. 
"You are at the halfway point of your Notre Dame career your sophomore year," she said. "You remember what it was like to be a freshman but you can appeal to the juniors as well." 
Sophomore candidates also have a chance to run again in a year. Becker said part of the reason he selected McCord was to give her the experience for a run at the presidency her senior year. Norton already has that advantage heading into this election. If she wins the election, Moscona will be in the same situation next year. 
Maureen Gottlieb and 
Victoria Fetterman, both sopho­
mores, believe the chance to 
have the same class student 
body president and vice presi­
dent is one of their biggest 
strengths. If elected, they plan 
to seek re-election next year. 
"I think being sophomores is 
actually an advantage for us 
because it gives us perhaps two 
years to work on our plans," 
Gottlieb said. "We could have 
the same people working for 
two years." 

ACE 
continued from page 1 
model to look at is that we've been getting support for the past six or seven years from the Corporation for National Service, which was an office set up by President Clinton, and obviously it has Democratic roots in that sense," said Staud. "That's a constituency that is typically wary of any kind of govern­ment involvement with faith­based programs." 
Staud claimed that ACE has been a shining example of a faith-based organizations excelling from federal funding in improving the lives of others in the surrounding community and world. 
"We're already benefiting from federal funds via AmeriCorps, but as we're try­ing to expand and deepen our involvement in educational issues. We would obviously welcome the opportunity to apply for federal grants to help us improve the program, so it really stands to benefit us," Staud said. 
Signing an executive order last Monday, Bush's faith­based initiatives were targeted toward religious organizations from all denominations by arranging conferences with various religious officials throughout the week. 
"[Bush] has to make sure that he is honoring the non­establishment clause and not playing favorites," said Staud on Bush's efforts to extend the program across all denomina­tional lines. Staud's meeting with Bush, comprised of repre­sentatives of Catholic organiza­tions was specifically geared towards the important influ­ence of the Catholic organiza­tions in the community. 
"[Bush} specifically praised the Catholic school system as a real life-line for kids in the inner-city especially, to provide access to good, quality educa­tion," said Staud. "(Bush] talked about more in a spirit of gratitude of what the Church has done in terms with issues of life-both in terms of its determined oppositions to abortion, but also a lot of the social outreach programs for unwed mothers, adoption, etc.­so it was not focused just on education, but sort of broad­based," said Staud. 
vote against the candidate because she disagrees with what he stands for. 
Students also said that being ­a sophomore -and usually less experience than a junior ­could be a weakness. 
"I think experience counts," said Susan Papreck, a sopho­more from Badin. "So obviously in you are a junior you will have more experience in stu­dent government. "Papreck also said she wouldn't 


cinema@thesnite 
-
-

Bjork. Catharine Dcnouvo 

..AJ.....:,,r:t,d,_:r..~ . , . 1 
•,: ~ ~s • u;•r.tL : Jttan. c·~!tl•r.•.. c.,~11...: U1te-:3:n1.• 

Fri. & Sat. 7:00 p.m. and 9:45 p.m. 
presented by ND Film, Television, and Theatre www.nd.edu/--ftt 






ATION 
Friday, February 9, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 

Koreas connect railway: The mili­taries of North and South Korea agreed to their first ever joint peace project Thursday -reconnecting a cross-border railway sev­ered by the Korean War half a century ago. The 41-point agreement, which also agreed on setting up the first ever hot line between the two militaries, marked another milestone in thawing relations between the two once­hostile countries since a summit of their lead­ers in June. 
Babies take mother's surname: The National Assembly gave initial approval Thursday to a bill that would allow newborns to bear the surname of either their father or mother, bringing France into line with most of its European neighbors. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

Bill would keep web tax moratori­um: The Internet tax moratorium would be extended until 2006 and Internet access taxes banished altogether under bills introduced in the House and Senate on Thursday. Sen. Ron Wyden. D-Ore., who introduced the Senate ver­sion, said the extension is necessary to prevent a "crazy quilt" of tax structures in each state and locality. The current tax ban will expire Oct. 21. "If that happens," Wyden said, "the World Wide Web is going to look like Dodge City before the marshals showed up." 
New power plants needed quickly: 
Hoping to stave off summer blackouts, California will dramatically speed up the approval process for new power plants in hopes of adding electricity for 5 million homes by July, Gov. Gray Davis said Thursday. Under an exec­utive order. Davis said the state will cut red tape and give bonuses to small power plants that operate only during peak hours of the day, provided those facilities can be up and running by summer. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 


Gary mayor approves KKK rally: 
Mayor Scott King, who sought to keep the Ku Klux Klan from rallying in this predominantly black city. said Thursday he had no choice but to approve the group's request for an open-air assembly permit. The city last month rejected a permit request by the Church of the American Knights, a Klan branch based in Butler. King, who had said he would do anything he could to keep the Klan out. said the city could not reject its latest request. "Consistent with federal and local law, I have no choice," he said. 
Dow 
/ONES
~,·


·t£t 
AMEX: Nasdaq: 
NYSE:· 
S&P 500: 1332.39 -8.50 TOPS VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY  %CHANGE  $GAIN  PRICE  
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  -3.42  .J.06  30.00  
KPMC CONSULTING (KCINJ  +30.44  +5.48  23.48  
NASDAQ 100 SHAR {QQQ)  -2.'}')  -1.81  5K.79  
MICROSOFT CORP (MSFn  -3.77  -2.43  62.25  
INTEL CORP (INTC)  -0.91  -0.31  34.62  

Market Watch 2/8 

10,880.55  -66.17  
Same: 1Jlll'n: 218 ¥  Composite Volume: NIA  
936~42  -a.so  
2562.06  -45.76  
657;76  ~l.f34  

ISRAEL 


Car bomb explodes, injures one 
· Associated Press 

JERUSALEM 
A car bomb set off two powerful explosions Thursday in a quiet ultra­Orthodox Jewish neighborhood of Jerusalem, injuring one person and sending large clouds of black smoke and car parts into the air. 
There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the blast, which came amid fears of increased vio­lence after Tuesday's election of h~r?-liner Ariel Sharon as prime mm1ster. 
One of Sharon's confidants, legis­lator Limor Livnat, said the attack only strengthened the resolve of Israel's new leadership not to resume negotiations with Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat's Palestinian Authority as long as violence contin­ues. 
"Certainly, the policy now will be that there will be no negotiations while we are under attack," Livnat said. "They will be able to continue talking to us only when the attacks stop." 
The back-to-back blasts went off just before 5 p.m. in a sidestreet of Beit Shmuel. an ultra-Orthodox neighborhood of Jerusalem. One person was injured and taken to a hospital, and nine more people were suffering from shock, Jerusalem Police Commander Micky Levy said. 
"It was a car bomb," said Levy. "The car was totally destroyed." Some reports said the explosion was caused by gas cannisters placed in the stolen car, as opposed to explo­sives, accounting for the relatively minor damage. 
Witnesses said that the blast sent car parts flying four stories high into the air. 
"I heard a bang and I started run­ning away, and then half a minute later I heard a second blast. I saw pieces of car flying in the air. but I didn't see anybody fall down. I didn't stay to watch," said David Leiser, 21. 
Police sealed off and searched the area. Some officers went through piles of garbage that had mounted on the sidewalks as a result of a 
Gunman passed background checks 
Associated Press 

EVANSVILLE, Ind. 
Despite a history of mental illness and at least one suicide attempt, Robert Pickett was able to walk into a pawn shop and buy the gun he later allegedly fired outside the White House, the shop's manager said Thursday. . 
Pickett, 47, bought the handgun a year ago after passing instant state and federal criminal background checks. said David Sisson, operations manager at Casey's Pawn Shop. 
A Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms agent linked the gun to the pawn shop through a serial number, Sisson said. The ATF referred ques­tions about the sale to U.S. Park Police, which did not return calls. 
Pickett, a fired Internal Revenue Service auditor and accountant in Evansville, was shot and wounded Wednesdav outside the White House after firing a gun. No one but Pickett was wounded. 
His motive was unclear, though 
park police said he put the barrel of 
the gun in his mouth. 
AFP Photo 

Israeli police sappers inspect the remains of a car bomb after it explod­ed Thursday near Jerusalem's ultra-Orthodox Mea Shearim neighborhood. One person was wounded and nine treated for shock from the blast that police suspect was the work of Palestinian militants. 
municipal workers strike. 
Outgoing Prime Minister Ehud Barak said that Israel will "have to do everything possible to stop this violence and reach the perpetrators 
Evansville police said Pickett did not have a criminal record. 
In Indiana, gun buyers must fill out state and federal forms for a back­ground check if they don't already have a permit. Both forms ask whether the applicant has ever been adjudicated mentally defective or been sent to a mental institution by a court. 
State Police are called after the forms are filled out and the sale is either approved, denied or put on hold. 
"You can buy a gun in an hour." said Maj. Karen Butt of the Indiana State Police. 
Pickett's responses on the forms were not disclosed Thursday. 
In a lawsuit Pickett filed over his fir­ing, he said hP, suffered from mental illness and had tried to kill himself by, overdosing on psychiatric medication. 
He said he suffered a "severe depression episode" in 1993 and was treated by a Baltimore psychiatrist. Officials close to Fellowship House, a treatment center in Baltimore, con­firmed he received treatment there. 
But there is no evidence so far that Pickett's treatment was anything but of these attacks." The bombing caught Barak in the middle of a speech to his Labor Party in Tel Aviv. and he said he had to rush back to Jerusalem. 
voluntary. 
Unless a gun buyer has been arrest­ed or convicted in connection to some type of mental illness, there is essen­tially no way to know if the person is telling the truth about being mentally ill or having been involuntarily com­mitted, said Robert Meeks, a retired state trooper and now a state senator. 
Meeks said authorities could do more to build a database of those who have a history of mental problems and should not be allowed to buy a gun. But he said Indiana's gun laws are adequate. 
"If you start reporting every time someone has a mental illness, my goodness, what kind of country would we live in?" Meeks asked. 
Brian Morton. spokesman for the lobbying group Handgun Control. said the ability. to lie about mental illness is a "gigantic loophole" in instant checks. 
"As a matter of policy, I think it's not like we 're publishing their names on the front page of the paper," Morton said. "It's to make sure people who shouldn't have guns don't get them." 

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 9, 2001 

Scully lecture details personal experience in Chile 
By MARIBEL MOREY 
Assistant News Editor 
The three fans circulating the damp warm air through­out the exceedingly heated Montgomery Theatre in LaFortune resembled a South American climate more than South Bend in the mid­dle of win­ter. Safely 

Scully
nestled away with­in an American campus, 20 people gathered and listened to Father Timothy Scully, executive vice president and government professor, speak on Thursday night on how his interest in Chile was cultivat­ed. 
Upon graduation from Notre Dame, Scully was recommend­ed by the Holy Cross Order to go to Chile. He arrived in September of 1979. "I didn't s p e a k going to be present. "I had been in Chile for 5 days. We [Pinochet and I] had a two­minute exchange -I wanted to watch him and see what this person's like," he said. 

After two and a half years, Scully moved to a shanty town in Chile at which point he con­tinued to see the blatant abuse or human rights. "I saw the poor getting the living crack out of them," he said. "I saw women's genitalia burnt and mangled, poverty and unemployment. I saw first­hand the effects of this democracy." 
However, he later empha­sizes that neither the poor nor the rich should be romanti­cized. 
Together as a political and religious state, the Chilean people take national politics very seriously. "As sports is to the Notre Dame campus, poli­tics is to Chile," he said. You are not friends nor you date outside of your political party. Politics is also engraved with~ in families. "You tell me your last name and I can tell you 
immediately 

Spanish, and I didn't know quite what  "/ saw the poor getting the living crack out of  what party you are," Scully said.  
Chile  was,"  them. I saw women ·s  As  an  
Scully said. "I found that I was in  genitalia burnt and mangled, poverty and  American in Chile, Scully feels that his  
a world that was strange to me strange in  unemployment. I saw firsthand the effects of this democracy. ,,  experience is not the same as other Chileans. "I  
that  it  was  was  seen  as  
u n h a P P Y beCause Of its political regime," he  Father Timothy Scully University executive vice president  someone apart white, gringo, I was treated  

said. somewhat special," Scully 
Shortly upon arriving at said. Santiago, Scully noticed that a He went downtown one day member of the religious order to watch a riot when a police had been invited to a formal officer in uniform came up to event where Pinochet was him and asked him what he 

CAST CALL FOR MEN'S SINGING AND DANCING ROLES 
MONDAY, FEB. 12 
7:30 p.m. 

O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
FOR AUDITION: -Bring one prepared musical piece. 
-Ifyou do not have a prepared piece, please attend anyway! , 
-We will teach you the music, scenes, and dance steps at the audition. 
Rehearsals begin March 5. 
Perfo_rmances: April 26-29, 2001 
was doing there. Scully told a troublesome communists the appropriate role of the white lie and said he was amidst a real struggle," he Church in politics. Within this waiting for a friend and he said. "They viewed advocates work he wrote that "torture in himself was lost. For the rest of human rights and leftist. general was against the of the riot, the officer served folks as the enemy in a world-Catholic social teaching." This as Scully's wide struggle was enough for the police to own body­against com­strip him of his visa. It was · 
"The Right saw those
guard by munism." replaced with a visa that shielding him nuns and me in a sort of Before required him to visit the from head­going to police headquarters every two
way as communists ­
to-toe. Once Chile, theolo­months to speak to a police
naive troublemsome 
the riot was gy for Scully agent about his life. "At this over, Scully communists amidst a real had been an point I thought I needed to get thanked the struggle. They viewed academic out," he said. 
officer who subject However. he still returns to
advocates ofhuman
then said, attempting to Chile every year. The United "That's what rights and leftist folks as untie the Nations sponsored two of we're here problems of these visits to take part in the
the enemy in a worldµ;ide
for." the mysteries reform of the law after 
· struggle against 
Scully was of God -who General Pinochet's rule. "The amazed, communism. ., and what is laws that Pinochet left were so "They're God, he said. biased towards the Right and [The mili-In the new the governing body," Scully
tary] beating Father Timothy Scully 
concept of said. the 1iving University executive vice president Liberation Having researched Chile shit out of theology, it is since his first visit in 1979, 
their own people and he says said that "God actually takes Scully is cautious of taking 'that's what we're here for' -sides -God is the God of the either side in the Chilean to protect the North poor," said Scully. struggle. "I see life as so com­American." At this point in Scully's life, plex. Some movies, like 
The role of the Church with­he became passionate about Romero, portray the Right as in these social injustices is dif­democracy in Chile. so evil and the poor as so ferent than the role of the With this new interest, absolutely virtuous and I just 
Church in the United States. Scullv wrote a small book on don't think it's like that." 
"The Church I grew up in is 
not a Church I associated with 
other than trying to [help Irish] 
make it in America. The :Jason: 
Church was an institution that 
promoted us [Irish]." he said. 
As Scully saw, the vast 
majority of the Chilean culture 
'1-fey sexy,

is Catholic, including Pinochet himself, and from 1973 onward, the Church was the only coherent organization 
']{ayy_y 21st 

protecting human rights. By 
protecting the poor, and " in a '13irtfiday.
political sense, the Church 
chose against its institutional 
interests," he said. 
The Church became a target Love,
of the Right. "The Right saw 
those nuns and me in a sort of 0. 
way as communists -naive 




Bela/},leck¦ },IecktolleS 
. --'~
"'j ., 
-_. .•• ! _., 
.· . .·•"" ' . 
\:;. ...:;t,;;,j­
-~,--'. ;_·_. i..,-' 
....... .. . ' . l ·"'' i,._ . 
' 

. 
_._:, ', ...~ 
. ,. . ., ..... .



·/(;··· . . 
.• 
. '• ' 
~ .,_· ! • 
. '\ 



MORRIS PERFORMING ARTS CENTER 

Friday, February 9, 2001 

The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Police look for motive behind White House shooting 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Federal authorities weighed what charges to file against an accountant who fired and brandished a handgun outside the White House, as life returned to nor­mal Thursday at the executive mansion. 
Tourist lines reappeared a day after the episode as man authorities appre­hended, Robert Pickett of Evansville. Ind., remained in good condition in a hospital. A uniformed Secret Service offi­cer had shot him in the right knee at midday Wednesday outside a White House fence. 
Federal authorities did not file charges Thursday. Justice Department officials were considering whether to charge Pickett with violating the District of Columbia's gun law, which carries a maximum five-year sentence, or a feder­al count of assaulting a federal officer, with a maximum 10-year sentence. 
Channing Phil1ips, spokesman for the 
U.S. attorney's office, said there was no urgency to charge Pickett while he was still recuperating. 
Meanwhile, it was revealed that Pickett had bought the gun after passing an instant background check in his home state of Indiana. despite a history of men­tal illness. 
Law enforcement officials, speaking on condition of anonymity. also said that a suicide note was found in Pickett's vehi­cle, found at a commuter rail station in Fairfax County. Va., outside Washington. 
With Pickett describing himself as ·a mental patient in several court filings against his former employer, the Internal Revenue Service, Phillips said the U.S. attorney's office could ask the court for an initial examination to evaluate Pickett's ability to understand legal pro­ceedings. The results of that exam could lead to a more comprehensive, month­long evaluation. 
Pickett created tense moments just out­side the White House wrought-iron fence Wednesday as he waved his gun at police and terrified tourists and apparently fired two shots before a uniformed officer shot him. 
Everything was normal in the White House on Thursday, as President Bush kept to his schedule, public tours went on as usual and security arrangements, intense during and after the incident Wednesday, appeared normal, with offi­cers at their regular posts. 
Pickett bought the gun from an Evansville pawn shop a year ago after passing an instant criminal background check, said David Sisson, operations manager at Casey's Pawn Shop in the city's commercial district. 
Sisson said a Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms agent linked the gun to his shop through a serial number. 

In Indiana, no permit is necessary to purchase a handgun, but anyone without a permit is required to complete a form for a background check. Maj. Karen Butt, commander of the Indiana State Police records division, said the forms are destroyed after 30 days because of state privacy laws, and there was no record of Pickett's responses. 
The state form asks: ..Have you ever been adjudicated mentally defective or have you ever been court committed to a mental institution?" 
White House press secretary Ari Fleischer, asked by reporters whether President Bush believes people with men­tal illness should have access to hand­guns, responded: "I think there are a series of laws on the books already deal­ing with that question. And I'm not aware of anything new on the federal level that would address that." 
Pickett reached a settlement in 1989 with the IRS, in which the agency dropped an action to fire him and allowed him to resign. The IRS agreed to provide back pay for a six-week period. 
The agreement notwithstanding, Pickett has waged a legal war against the IRS, filing several lawsuits, none success­fully. 
One of the cases remains alive. On Jan. 19, a day before Bush's inauguration, a federal magistrate in Cincinnati gave Pickett 30 days to produce evidence showing why the action should not be dismissed. At least two other complaints against the IRS in federal courts were dismissed, according to Sharon Zealy, 
U.S. 
attorney for southern Ohio. Pickett has not responded so far, James 

M. 
Coombe, an assistant U.S. attorney representing the IRS in the case, said Thursday. 


In the case, Pickett presented his psy­chologist's letter attesting that he suf­fered from chronic depression and has been under treatment for a long time. 
U.S. Magistrate Timothy Hogan addressed the competency issue in a rul­ing as part of the lawsuit. He wrote, "This court concludes that plaintiff suf­fers from a psychiatric condition that hampers his enjoyment of life and his ability to function completely in the workplace and in a more limited way with regard to his interpersonal relation­ships and his ability to care for himself." 
Hogan added, however, there was "no proof as yet that plaintiff fails to under­stand the nature, extent or cause of his current problems." 
In a lawsuit filed against the IRS in U.S. District Court in Evansville in 1997, Pickett said he "has been hospitalized five times by psychiatrists since August 1986, including twice for attempted sui­cide by drug overdose, and is currently in therapy." 
Actual census counts to aid political redistricting 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The Bush administration is committed to using raw census numbers for political redistrict­ing, but may allow adjusted numbers to be used to allocate federal funds among the states, House Republican sources said Thursday. 
Democrats contend that the statistical method known as 

"sampling" protects against an expected undercount of minori­ties, the poor and children. They said any decision by President Bush to prevent sampling from being used for redistricting would disenfranchise millions of Americans who were missed in the 2000 census. 
"The president supports an actual head count, because he believes it's the best and the most accurate way to conduct the census," White House spokesman Ari Fleischer said. The administration has not made a final decision on sam­pling, he said. 
But the GOP sources. including a House member. said the administration was committed to using only raw, nonsampled data from the 2000 count as the basis for states to redraw con­gressional, state and· local politi­cal district lines. The sources, speaking on condition of anonymity. also said that the use of sampled data for other pur­"This is an issue of great poses, including determining importance that will determine federal funds, was "negotiable." whether millions of people ­

'), 
<:! 
.. ;....~ 
. . . 
. . 
. 
~ 
~ 
--t 

. f', . 
V 





A Gl",Ul} 0. 

t11e 

The Wall Street Journal also reported Thursday that the White House has "pri­v a t e 1 y promised" to block states from using sam­pling for redis• tricting. 
W i· l l i a m Barron, acting director of the 

"The president supports an actual head count. because he believes it's the best and the most accurate way to conduct the census ... 
Ari Fleischer White House spokesman 
Census Bureau, has said he will 
decide by early March whether 
the sampled data should be 
released. The administration 
could overrule or block his deci­
sion. 

The numbers to be used for 
redistricting must be released by 
April 1. 
::~• 
/~ 
most of whom are minorities, children and rural residents 
will be counted for representation at every level of govern­ment," said House Minority L e a d e r Richard Gephardt, D-Mo. "A com­
promise that would deny these people representation would mean their disenfranchisement." 
Responded John Feehery, spokesman for House Speaker Dennis Hastert, R-Ill.: ..This is the most accurate census in his­tory. There's little to no need for sampling." 



~}~1:-:~~;:;.;j_Jt.'.A'..{:.:.• '\ •• •;i: -~~-.-.,:h~~;::~~~:-~l-i''~~~:;~;;~:;:1,jJ~.:~:il~, .
~m:•:~:•»:::«.::::*W.::OJ:::::::::.·t,~::~ ., ,:,: . ,;,;,;,;,.:..•,.:....::\!:!:• ::.:JIJ:,.....:,,•:.,:...,•,•:•:•·.:-:-:•:•~~,:~.N, '•
,·.v,•..• 'i'l,',',.,.,.,·,·,.·.-1......,,.,.,.,••••••\'t.v.•.v.•••••••\'i, •,,i;11.i;.•,v·•,•,•,,,._.,,,',',',','•'t~ •,•, ,•;~•. v,.•,•,•,•.•,•,•-t,'.',V,',\\'l,•}1,'h\', ·• :;:~l.',v,•,,•X 

Friday, February 9, 2001 

page 8 The Observer . NEWS 
that is responsible for choosing and deciding what music will be performed during the marching season. She will also be holding meetings inviting people to discuss ideas for ~he com­ing year and evaluate the past season to see where improve­ments should be made. 
As marching season approaches, Paster will be spending more time in the band building preparing for the task at hand. Next year as a senior, majoring in aerospace engine~ring, Paster will be taking frequent breaks from her studies to attend practices, usually lasting 12-25 hours a w~ek.. 
Paster said these hours will prove to be a combmat1on of fun and hard work. "Every drum major rules differently, and I intend on leading the band by example to improve the attitude of people in band and bring the members closer together to perform better as a band," she said. · 
Paster was selected for head drum major after an extensive audition. Paster began practicing in October and auditions began in late November. The original group consisted of 16 people. 
After the first marching audition, the group was narrowed 
down to eight. Those eight progressed to the _c?nducting audi­
tion and interview in front of the band. Aud1t10ns were com­
pleted in early December and winners were announced short­
ly after. . 
Non-auditioning band members were pre~ent for the a~d1­
tions and played a very important. role m the select10_n. 
Together, band members, assistant directors, graduate as_sis­
tants and past drum majors voted for three new drum maJors 
for the year. . 
Brad Mazner and Jessica Boehm were selected as assistant 
drum majors. 

,...-;.,.:'>.:.~, ... ~ 


COME To PAPA
·.-_,, 
;// -.." 
,o/ 2 ~ 
I /J 

FOR
I 



DINNER! 
Join us for dinner and enjoy generous portions of Italian entrees and pastas like: 
• 
Shrimp Farfalle • Chicken P-armesan 

• 
P-asta con Fbllo • Shrimp Ravioli 

• 
Chicken Scallopini • Salmone alla Griglia 


And remember, Papa recommends that you 
complement your meal with our delicious appetizers, 
desserts and wines. 
Fantastical 

, ~tAN K~CHEN" 
A celebration of great taste. 
5110 Edison Lakes Parkway 
219.271.1692 RESERVATIONS ACCEPTED HOURS: Sunday-Thursday 11:00a.m. •10:00p.m. Friday -Saturday 11:00 a.m. -11:00p.m. 
Paster becomes first African-American ND head drum major 
By KELLY HAGER 
News Writer 

The 2001 football season will feature another first for Notre 
Dame. Leading the band for the 2001 season is new head 
drum major Tambre Paster -the first woman head drum 
major in 16 years and the first African-American drum major 
in University history. 

"I am so honored and pleased to be working with such a tal­
ented group," said Paster. "Having the ability and opportunity 
to lead a group with both the prestige and tradition of the 
Notre Dame marching band -it makes me very happy." 
Serving with the band since 1972, Father George 
Wiskirchen has been witness to much change. Now serving as 
an assistant director, Wiskirchen stated that he was extremely 
pleased to see the band students elect Paster as head drum 
major. 

"I think it is great -Tambre is the first African-American head drum major the b~nd has ever had -and I don't believe that her race will be an issue in the way she performs her job," said Wiskirchen. "She gets along with other people and is very competent. She'll do well." · 
When asked how she felt about being the first African­
American drum major, and the first female in 16 years, Paster 
commented that "it will be a little unnerving at first to be 
under the public microscope" but she doesn't really focus on 
her gender or race as an issue when performing her job. 
"I am proud to say that I am the first African-American drum major for the University," said Paster. "I am glad that it finally happened ... it represents how this school in particular is going in the right direction by not look­ing at color when deciding who the best person is for the job. 
Paster is not a stranger to the director's podium, serving not only as a drum major while in high school, but also as an assis­tant drum major for Notre Dame last season. 
Paster plays piccolo in concert band during the fall and spring. This spring, in addition to her 

responsibilities in the concert groups, Paster will begm takmg on the responsibilities of her new drum major job. . Such responsibilities include managing the show committee 
"Having the ability and opportunity to lead a group with both the prestige and tradition ofthe Notre Dame marching band -it makes me very happy.,, 
Tambre Paster 2001 head drum major 
. . . 


Bush sends tax plan to Congress 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
President Bush dispatched his proposed $1.6 trillion, 10-year tax cut on what should be a tor­tuous journey through Congress 
o n Thursday, urging action because "a warning light is flashing on the dash­board of our econo­my." 

Democrats, while insisting that they, too, want to trim taxes this year, cast Bush's pro­posal as a version of President Reagan's first tax cut. They said the Bush plan was too big, risked plunging the federal bud­get back into deficit and was skewed toward the rich. 
"We've already tried what President Bush is proposing," said Senate Minority Leader Tom Daschle, D-S.D. "We did that in 1981. The rich got rich­er. The poor got poorer. And working families got stuck with the entire bill." 
While Democrats try halving the size of Bush's package and aiming it more at lower-income Americans, many Republicans and lobbyists will spend the next few months seeking to add on. 
Some GOP lawmakers have 
talked of pushing the price tag 
beyond $2 trillion. Business 
groups want to insert provisions 
trimming corporate income tax 
and capital gains tax rates, 
speeding up writeoffs for equip­
ment purchases, and other 
items. 

"We're on the verge of a feed­ing frenzy all across the board," 
Bush 
said Sen. Max Baucus of Montana. senior Democrat on the tax-writing Senate Finance Committee. 
The opposing tugs from both sides mean it is impossible to predict what the final bill will look like. But there is virtually no doubt that Congress this year will pass the biggest tax cuts since Reagan's 1981 package. 
What Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill actually delivered to Congress was a nine-page docu­ment describing the plan Bush campaigned on, which focused on a reduction in income-tax rates. It would also double the $500 per child tax credit, phase out the estate tax, make perma­nent the temporary credit for business research and reduce the marriage penalty, which is the extra tax some couples must pay after they marry. 
Asked whether Bush would let the package grow in size, O'Neill said, "He's been very firm that he wants to stay at the total of $1.6 trillion." · 
Even so, GOP leaders were 

pleased to begin their first  "We ·ve already tried what President Bush is  money into peo­ple's pockets,  
serious tax-cut­ting drive in years. Former President  proposing. The rich got richer. The poor got poorer. And working  Bush said the cuts made sense in light of projected bud­ 
Clinton vetoed most of· their tax cuts since  families got stuck with the bill."  get surpluses. T h e Congressional  
they took over  Budget  Office  
Congress  in  Tom Daschle  envisions $5.6  
1995. "After years  Senate Minority Leader  trillion. in sur­pluses for the  
of waiting, we  coming decade.  

finally have received an honest Bush and his aides say his to goodness tax proposal from plan will help lower-and mid• the White House," said House die-income taxpayers most Speaker Dennis Hastert of because their reductions would Illinois. grow by the largest percent­
O'Neill said administration ages. Bush said families earning officials would complete the between $35,000 and $75,000 bill's details in coming weeks. would get tax breaks of from He will testify on the plan next $600 to $3,000 more each year. 
Tuesday before the House Ways and Means Committee. 
Though the bill may not clear Congress until at least the sum­mer, Bush spent the third week of his presidency pushing his tax plans in daily appearances. His hope is to take advantage of momentum provided by the sluggish economy and skyrock­eting budget surplus estimates. 
"Our Treasury is full and our people are overcharged," Bush said in the White House Rose Garden, where he also reiterat­ed his desire to make some of the cuts retroactive to last Jan. 
1. "Returning some of their money is right, and it is urgent," he said, underscoring the argument that a tax cut should help the slowing econo­my. 
Bush said his plan would mean tax savings of $1,600 to the average family of four, though he didn't mention that that would be years from now, when all of the tax cuts are fully phased in. 
Besides putting extra 

Friday, February 9, 200 I page 9 
The Observer . NEWS 

Ashcroft meets with Reno 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Janet Reno was back in the attorney general's office Thursday -for lunch with her successor John Ashcroft -and she gave him a history lesson before the first course. 
The atmosphere was cordial and good­humored as the Clinton Democrat, who reminds many of a school marm, returned from her home in Florida to meet the pol­ished conservative Republican politician, who was one of the first senators to call for impeachment of the presi­dent she served. 
When Ashcroft told reporters how much he appreciated the chance to confer with the nation's longest-serving attorney general, Reno, who served eight years, promptly corrected him, noting her tenure was second to the 11 years served by William Wirt. "I told you I could learn things from her," Ashcroft remarked. 
A reporter asked Reno if she agreed with Clinton's controversial pardon of fugitive commodities trad­er Marc Rich -a move Ashcroft had called into question the evening before. "A pardon should be reserved for a situation where there is a manifest sense of injustice." Ashcroft had said on CNN's "Larry King Live" program. 

But Reno ducked the question. "I don't do the attorney general's pri­vate dining room slightly in front of her host, she did not notice Ashcroft gesturing to the side chair of the dining table set for two and strode over and sat at the head of the table. And she was carry­ing a tabbed notebook of papers to discuss. 
Over several hours, she lunched with Ashcroft, met with his 
top aides and
"/ told you I 

things on held a private Thursday could learn session with any more," things from her.,. him devoted to 
she replied classified mat­-a refer­ters, Ashcroft's ence to the John Ashcroft aides said. They weekly Attorney General declined to 
Thursday news con­ference she held as attor­ney general. 
Ashcroft, whose aides are still weighing whether to follow or alter her practice of weekly news conferences, roared with laughter and predicted news magazines would highlight that quote. 
Asked if she missed being attorney general. Reno replied, "I miss the people." · 
But she had not lost the feel of the job. Entering reveal the sub­
stance of the discussions. 
Earlier, Ashcroft, a for­mer Missouri senator, reached out for advice to a batch of his predeces­sors, including Republican Attorneys General William Barr, Richard Thornburgh, Ed Meese and Democrat Griffin Bell. 
He also has invited the Republican chairmen and ranking Democrats from the House and Senate Judiciary Committees for lunch. 
COLUMBIA 
President Pastrana meets rebels on enemy grounds 
·Associated P rcss 
LOS POZOS 
Staking his own safety on resusci­

tating Colombia's shaky peace 
process, President Andres Pastrana 
traveled to rebel territory Thursday, 
where he was embraced by guerrilla 
chief Manuel Marulanda and held 
"very productive" talks. 
As dusk approached in this village 

in the heart of guerrilla territory, 
the leaders of the opposing sides 
ended their almost eight hours of 
talks and called a 
temporary halt for country
"/feel very satisfied 
the night. Pastrana into deeper turmoil. 
flew in a helicopter about this meeting and Some 3,000 people to spend the night in back the words ofthe are killed annually in an abandoned army fighting. among guer­
president.··
base located inside rillas, the military this safe haven he and the paramilitary granted the rebels Manuel Marulanda group, which is com­two years ago. peting for drug prof­
guerrilla chief 
But the early posi­tive signals belied the challenges Pastrana faces in his quest to end Colombia's 37-year war. In their third face-to-face encounter. Pastrana is trying to get Marulanda's Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, to return to formal peace talks that they abandoned in November. 
Marulanda, for his part. is demanding that Pastrana crack down on a right-wing paramilitary group that has been massacring suspected rebel sympathizers, and to scale back an anti-drug offensive backed by $1.3 billion in U.S. mili­tary aid. A possible prisoner exchange was also on the table. 
"We have decided to meet and continue this conversation tomorrow at nine in the morning," Pastrana told reporters with Marulanda at his side. "The meeting was very produc­tive and we will continue working." 
Marulanda also put a positive spin on Thursday's talks, details of which were not released. 
"I feel very satisfied about this meeting and back the words of the president," the guerrilla chief said. 
A failure to make headway could 
plunge this South 
American 
its with the FARC. 
Pastrana had arrived in the Switzerland-sized safe haven Thursday morning on his plane from the capital Bogota. He flew to San Vicente del Caguan, the biggest town in the so-called demili­tarized zone in southern Colombia's Caqueta province, and then traveled by helicopter to the nearby village of 
:i
Los Pozos. 
As two helicopters carrying Pastrana and his entourage approached Los Pozos. guerrillas set ablaze a wet pile of leaves to identi­fy the landing zone and the wind 
direction. 



"BRINGING THE ARTS TO LIFE" 
2000 Pulitzer Prize Winner 
C.K. W ILLJAMS will be speaking from 8-10 pm in the 
LaFortune Ballroom, Today Friday, February 9, 2001 BOOKSIGNING at 3:30 pm 
also this weekend . . . . . 

•·.. 
' 
',' 
', 
' 
~-•' )'.'S
'3( ,.,1:-''
' -'1 ~:"i 
' 

SLF Poetry Workshop hosted by DIANE THIEL, 

author of Echolocations Notre Dame RoomLaFortune Sunday, February 11 2-4pm 

O
THE 
Friday, February 9, 2001 

THE OBSERVER 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER. Noreen Gillespie Tim Lane 
NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Mattingly VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey 
SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smith SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Molly McVoy 
PHOTO EDITOR: Elizabeth Lang 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner 
CONTROLLER: Bob Woods 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................63 l-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME....................631-454 l BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS.......................................................... 631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.spom. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PH0T0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://obst111n-.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/mwic for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letrers and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Vic:wpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Que1tions regarding Obst1110-policies shou/J be dir«t­rd to F.ditor in ChiefMike ConnoOy. 


Its magnificent Old City forms a geo­metric maze of black-stained, yellow buildings. Above the downtown rises the Wawel Castle, a tribute to Eastern European kings. 
A marketplace, where eager sales­people sell carved wooden boxes and cheap crystal, stands central in the downtown next to the Cathedral of Saint Mary, which testifies to the faith of the coun­try. The central crucifix of this blue, red and gold­adorned church inspires awe in all those who pass through its heavy brown doors. 
Outside the voices of students radi­ate throughout the streets of this jewel of a city once hidden behind the wall of communism. 
In the days after Christmas, I found myself in Krakow, Poland. 
Throughout the snow-less month of December in Austria, I looked for­ward to my trip eastward. I had yet to cross into territory once held by the force that inspired the fall-out shelter in the basement of my grammar school. 
I eagerly awaited the opportunity to look for the legacy of the past in the growth of Krakow, a city that has developed over the last ten years into a center of culture and hope in Poland. I also aimed to find some pierogies, Polish cheese and potato filled ravioli, like those of my grand­mother. 
As I walked through the streets of Krakow, I felt for the first time since departing the United States that I had truly left my home country. The oblig­atory McDonald's in the Old City stood as the only evidence that western civi­lization had reached Poland. The Dunkin' Donuts that had sat on a cor­ner near the train station went out of business last year. 


In contrast to Austria, Switzerland or Italy, where the majority of stu­dents, salespeople and train person­nel that I have encountered converse fluently in English, the barrier of lan­guage hindered our navigation of the 
Krakow. 
In two restaurants, my travel com­panions and I ordered by pointing at an item and hoping that it would appeal to our tastebuds. (I did eat some pierogies at the second.) At a bank. I could only communicate with the teller in German, whose grasp of the language paled in comparison to even my one-dimensional, American­accent tinged verbal abilities. 
The lands beyond the city touched me to an even greater degree. On our second day in Poland, we rode from Krakow to Oswiecim, the site of the Auschwitz-Birkenau death camps. 
The landscape of rural Poland starkly contrasted that of Austria with its ornate village churches and wood­en-roofed, orange and brown farm­houses. Villages of rectangular shacks and wire fences dotted the fields. The cartoonish graffiti that decorated the walls of the houses provided the only color in the winter landscape. No break in the contours of the land denoted the end of the world of the living and the beginning of the camps of death. 
The museum at Auschwitz and Birkenau pays tribute Lo the suffering and turmoil that Poland has endured over the past century. It also stands as a monument to the depth of the crimes that humans have the capabili­ty to commit against one another. 
The shatteringly perfect calculation of the Nazis and their sadistic manip­ulation of the prisoners violently struck me. They denied certain pris­oners blankets and others shoes or jackets so that the captives would have to fight amongst themselves to survive. · 
Yet, perhaps ironically in this somber place, I encountered some of the most hospitable people that I have ever met. Our tour guide from the­museum met us with a smile and a calm voice at the train platform. A driver from a youth center in Oswiecim took us to the museum, kept our bags safe in the taxi and awaited our return from the tour. The center provided us with dinner and allowed us to stay there as we waited for our midnight train to take us back to Innsbruck. 
But, perhaps our simple visit to Auschwitz and Birkenau inspired the welcoming demeanor of our guides. More Americans visited the concen­tration camps in the 1970s, when Poland still existed under commu­nism, than today in a time of open borders. 
On the ride to the Oswiecim train station, we passed a point of contro­versy that had reached the pages of Time and Newsweek -a disco just outside the death camps. As we drove past the gray. metallic building, our driver, an older man around 65 years old, commented that the children here must live too. 
And to me, Poland did indeed feel 
like a country coming to life. 
Joanna Mikulski is a sophomore arts and letters major who is current­ly spending the academic year abroad 
in Innsbruck. Austria. 
The opinions expressed in this col• umn are those of the author and not those of The Observer. 
DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS I WOULD YOU MIND
MY FLIGHT DIDN'T o
• 

POUR ALL OFSLAPPING THE BACKGET IN UNTIL THREE 8 YOUR COFFEE
OF MY HEAD UNTIL
THIS MORNING. 
J 

IN HERE AND
MY EYES UNCROSS? 

NO ONE GETS HURT. 
\ i 

) 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"That men do not learn very much from the lessons ofhistory is the most important ofall the lessons ofhistory. •• 
Aldous Huxley author 


O
THE 

Friday, February 9, 2001 BSERVER 
page 11 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Some words not to be used lightly 
You're hanging out with your friends after the Super Bowl, eagerly anticipating the debut of "Survivor II." The group starts to banter about who will be the first to get kicked off, the feminist ex-cop or the hot personal trainer. Suddenly, one of your cohorts announces, "I don't care, 'Survivor' is gay." Some of your peers giggle nervously, while the others awkwardly change the subject. 
We've all found ourselves in a similar situation at one time or another. You'll be talking about an arbitrary subject when one of your friends voices his disapproval or dislike for something by char­acterizing it as "gay." Although this phrase may often go unchal­lenged, it does not go unnoticed. 
The use of the word as a misplaced adjective offends many people, regardless of their sexual orientation. It is unnecessary to use such a word where it does not belong. When something is meant to be char­acterized as stupid or lame and people say "gay" to get their point across, the word is tagged with a negative connotation. 
The misuse of the word not only offends, but also makes the speak­er look uneducated and unrefined. It's no mystery that Notre Dame students receive some of the best educations in the country. Surely they can come up with a more sophisticated word to describe their feelings -or a more accurate one, at that. If something is stupid, why not call it that? 
When you say "this shirt looks gay," do you really mean that the shirt appears homosexual? Or is it just unfashionable? Would you feel comfortable using the word "gay" in this manner around your professors. your rectors, at a job interview or in a term paper? No, probably not. 
Most importantly. this adjective seems incredibly out of place at a school where most of the students are self.proclaimed Christians. When you knowingly slander and offend those around you, how can you claim to be living up to your faith's ideals? True Christians rec­ognize and celebrate the uniqueness of all of God's creatures. 
So many of us claim to be humanitarians, unselfishly dedicating our time and our money to correcting the wrongs in society. However. we knowingly exhibit a lapse in judgment which could rea­sonably contribute to intolerance, injustice and even violence. This is not the standard which should be set for our generation and those to come. 
Next time you're tempted to abuse this term, consider who's listen­ing. 
Kelly Rogers Amanda Rubio 
sophomores 
Lyons Hall February 8, 200 l 

Students should support women's basketball 
Basketball is one of the most popular sports here at Notre Dame. The women's basketball team is undefeated. They are ranked No. 1 in the nation. Admission to their games is free for all students. Someone. please, explain to me why there were no more than 50 students at Wednesday's game versus Pittsburgh? 
I've been thinking about this for some time and I just can't figure 
it out. Why is it that students consistently pay to attend men's 
games and manage to fill the student section, yet those same stu­
dents do not attend the women's games? Is everyone busy when­
ever the women have a game? Is the women's schedule harder to 
find than the men's? Plenty of students attended the game against 
Connecticut -was the excitement of that game not enough to 
keep you coming back? 
I sat in the student section tonight -notice I said "sat." No one stands, no one does the cheers, and that's probably because the rest of the people sitting in the student section aren't actually stu­dents. 
Do you know that before every game, the ushers tape signs on 
every row of the student section to keep others out? Do you know 
that eventually the ushers walk through the section taking all 
those signs down when they realize that the students just aren't 
coming? 
I know that the women on the basketball team don't play because they want recognition from the student body. Even if no one attended their games, they would play just as hard and win just as often. The women aren't suffering because students don't attend their games. It's the students who are missing out -they aren't watching the best team in the nation play terrific basketball. 
Kati Miller 
senior 
Badin Hall 
February 8, 2001 

Wheat wafers weigh in 
This week's Observer sports what promises to be one of the stranger exchanges of the year. Mike Connolly's Inside Column, "All Praise Wheat," on Monday comments on the decidedly odd refusal of the Archdiocese of Boston to allow a 5-year-old girl with celiac disease to make her first communion with what is described as a wafer made of rice rather than wheat, a refusal based in part on a Vatican decision of 1994. 
Christopher Mirus in a letter on Tuesday defends the refusal on grounds that could best be described as a kind of Vatican fundamentalism -supposedly, Jesus used wheat when he "insti­tuted the Eucharist" and so the Church must do the same. 
Here his historical slip is showing. Most schol­ars tend to see the origins of the Eucharist as too complex to be attributed to a single occasion. But let's grant the assumption that the occasion usu­ally called the "last supper" is determinative for the Eucharist. The meal is described by the gospel authors as a meal for the feast of Passover and the unleavened bread (so the Western. but not the Eastern churches have generally used unleavened bread). 
This feast celebrated the first grain harvest in Galilee and Judea -the barley harvest. In fact. the gospel of John, which sets the miracle of the multiplication of loaves at Passover, speaks specifically of barley loaves. At any Passover meal in Jerusalem in Jesus' time, the loaves would have come from the new harvest and would not necessarily have contained any wheat at all. 
Outside of Passover, barley tended to be the food of the poor; as the celebration of both Passover and eucharist moved away from the holy land with its seasonal celebrations and from the time of Jesus, the significance of the barley was lost. The desire for something a bit more refined and festive probably came into play, and 
the wheat loaves more common in the Roman world became the norm. 
Even had the bishop been right about the prac­tice of Jesus, it seems to me that some allowances could have been made here. The church allows alcoholic priests to use a non-alco­holic substance called mustum rather than wine in the cup. Why should a shift to rice wafers rather than wheat be any different? No one would miss the wheat -as Connolly pointed out, most communion wafers appear to be made largely of plaster. 
This observation raises a broader problem -if a sacrament is a sign that signifies what it effects, what happens to the effect when the sign is so impoverished? Most communion wafers bear so little resemblance to bread that it takes more faith to believe they contain wheat than to discern the body of Christ (it is, incidentally, pos­sible to make rice bread that resembles bread, as opposed to Necco wafers.) 
Nourishment is the last thing they signify. Worse still, it's rarely true that "we all partake of the same cup" -in most congregations the cup (which may or may not contain wine) is reserved for the priest alone. Maybe the impoverishment of the sign has something to do with the wheat­worshipping hierarchy's inability to discern the body of Christ in such members as this little girl. 
Mary Rose D'Angelo 
associate professor oftheology February 8, 200 I 

GUEST COLUMN 
Celebrating Valentine's Day for all the wrong reasons 
SWARTHMORE, Pa. relentlessly pursue you everywhere -on TV, on 
Ah, yes. Romance is in the air. As is a barrage your computer, on the radio, at the mall, even in of cupids, lace, angels, teddy bears, flowers and the grocery store. Forcing you to prove your love, chocolates galore. Whether you like it or not, the your affection, your commitment, your sensitivity Season of Love is upon us. or whatever. It's such a performance. 
Valentine's Day is right around the corner. And if, God forbid, you don't have a Valentine, Please shoot me. Kate well, then you might as well just down that entire 
Yes, that's right, I hate , Y bag of Hershey's kisses and sob hysterically while Valentine's Day. This may O Donnell watching "An Affair to Remember" all by your seem odd, considering I am lonesome like the pathetic person society says quite the romantic. But Swarthmore you are. 
that's just it. Sorry to pull a Phoenix And it's not that I'm bitter. I've had my share of Swattie and disparage Valentine's Day moments (and plenty of self-pity­against all things main• ing chocolate-filled moments. too). stream and commercial, but It's just that I object to the performance of it all. I've got a real problem with the capitalist ambi-Love (romance, commitment, trust. loyalty and ence of Valentine's Day. all that jazz) is special because it's unique. · 
I feel like the real romance is replaced by Because it is shared by only two people (well, Hallmark. It's a Greek tragedy. But I guess ~'usually). ,Be_cause it bring~ ?1agic into the all holidays are like that. I mean, I can /-:::-,...~couple s.hves. Beca1:s~ it s what makes think of several friends of various faiths I'\\~~ th_ose hves worth livmg so much of the who whole-heartedly celebrate ...-.•--(0 \ time. . 
Christmas. And that's certainly not a . ~ \ And yeah, OK, the flowers ,will proba­criticism; it's more an observation of "~ •,/ ' . . bly make her melt. But they re not the lack of Christian content in the • n · enough.commercialized season. l 1 11111!1~-M Love is sacre?. It should be celebrated 
But I think that people at least have every day. Not Just once a year, on 
some vague idea of the origins. And in ~ 1 some arbitrary ~ay in ~ebruary. , general. 'tis the season for good tidings And ~he best_kmds of mementos don t and all that merriness. So even without . have a httle r~gistered trademark symbol the sacred, there is the humanitarian. r-,.6 ~n them. They re those s~ontaneous, And the world makes sense again. ~.~------, pr1cel~ss gestu_res that remm? you of why 
How many people know who St. Valentine you are m love with the person m the first 
was. though? I barely remember and I spent nine place. . years in Catholic school having the litur6)' of the That's how I see 1t, anyway. saints and their lives forced into me day after 
This column first appeared in Swarthmore 
day. Not that knowing about this guy redeems 
College's daily newspaper, the Swarthmore 
the holiday -'cause the problem with 
Phoenix. on Feb. 8, 2001 and is reprinted here 
Valentine's Day, as far as I can tell, is that it's pretty much comprised by commercialism. courtesy ofU-WIRE. 
The opinions expressed in this column are
Cutesy paraphernalia ad nauseam practically 
those ofthe author and not necessarily those of
from December 27 'til the day after the actual cursed day; All those annoying reminders that The Observer. 


O
THE 
page 12 BSERVER Friday, February 9, 2000 



Winter fun in 
Scene walks you through some traditional and some not-so-c 
By SCOTT LITTLE 
Scene Writer 

So we live in South Bend. People say there is nothing to do here in the win­ter. Well, they are partially right. But also, they are partially wrong. There are some things to do, but when it comes right down to it, it's up to you! 
Long John Sliver's and Toilet 

out, don't forget to stop by the Simba Lodge Gift shop for a zoovenier. Take 1-80 east, then go north on Exit 6 in Ohio. You can't miss it! 
Cook Energy !nformation Center 

Or maybe you're an engineer. Well then, the place for you is Cook Energy Information Center. About 33 miles north of us on Lake Michigan there is a big nuclear power plant that trans­mits 2 .1 million kilo­watt hours of elec­
tricity to thousands
If you have never If you are 2 I and think 
of consumers. And
eaten at Long John 

you are lucky -or ifyou lucky for us, they
Silver's you are in 

are filthy rich -consider are open almost the
luck. There are seven 

entire year for visit­
Long John Silver's heading out for an 
ing. You can visit
franchises in the 

evening ofcarousing and 
them Tuesdays
Michiana Area. They 

gambling at one ofthe through Sundays,
have catfish and fish 

from 10 a.m. to 5
sandwiches and nearby casinos. 
ocean chef salads. And don't think your fun is over after you have gobbled down your meal. Within an hour you'll feel an anchor in your belly just begging for you to take the ship to the harbor. This could be a while and what fun it will be. Don't forget to ring the bell on your way out of Long John's if your service was good. 
Drive Thru Safari 

You can't really do this in the win­ter, but if you are a Bio major, and need to cram for your final, this may be a good place to start. Drive Thru Safari is located a piddely 180 miles east of here, c1ose to Cedar Point. Most safari-goers describe their encounters as "Thrilling!" They have the only white zebras in the United States and a llama exhibit to boot. There is certainly no experience like it in the Midwest. And on your way 


p.m. Here, you'll enjoy multimedia theaters and a fun 
tour. At the end, you can even test your Energy IQ with a touch-screen computer game. There are also great hiking trails there, and the lovely Michigan Dunes. Take 31 N to US 12 W to 94 N and take exit 16. 
Amish Country 

It might be winter, but the Amish don't seem to mind. They are a rugged people. And maybe some of that has to do with their yummy wholesome food. You too can eat this Amish food ... in Amish Country! Spend a day there and see Amish cov­ered bridges, shop for Amish col­lectibles and visit some Amish muse­ums. Some places you won't want to miss are The Corn Crib, The ClothesLine and the Essenhaus Bakery. To get to Amish Country, take highway 20 east until you are in 
Middlebury, and 
start exploring. It is about 20 min­utes east of Elkhart. 
Casinos 

If you are 21 and think you are lucky -or if you are filthy rich ­consider heading out for an evening of carousing and gambling at one of the nearby casi­nos. United Limo drives to Michigan City. You cou Id hop aboard with your money clip and head for adventure at the Blue Chip Casino. Oh, and don't worry, there is a Long John Silver's in Michigan City. If winning could only be as easy as it sounds. Blue Chip is located at 2 Easy Street. If you are passing through Gary, con­sider The Majestic Star, and if you're in Hammond seek out The Empress. If you are J.!nde r 
21 your closest 
bet is in Canada. 
You only have to 
be 19 to throw 
away your par­
ents' hard earned 
money in 
Canada. And you 
can drink. The 
place to go is 
Windsor, and 
once there you 
won't have any 
problems at all 
finding out where 
to drop your . money. 
Marengo Cave 
This is not in the Michiana area at all. But if you're a cave lover like me, you don't care. Marango cave is located . near Patoka Lake in southern Indiana. They have cavern tours year round. (Pssst, the weath­er doesn't change much in a cave.) They also have corral trail rides over the caves in the spring, as well as canoe trips, a climbing tower and a zip line. Call (812} 365-2705 for more informa­tion. 
Fernwood 
Conservatory 
Packed with beautiful nature stuff, they have an indoor conservato­ry and a goldfish. They also accom­modate you with a cafe, gift shop and visitor center. It is a great place for hiking and enjoying the outside. To get there, take 31 N to Walton, in Niles. Take a right when you get to Range Line Road, and about one mile down the road you'll see Fernwood. 
Potawatami Zoo 
Located nearby in South Bend, the zoo is open in the winter. The hours are from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. daily. The price for admission is $4. Don't miss the kangaroos. They are_ hip hoppidy fantastic! 
South Bend Century Center 
The Century Center is where a lot of big events take place in South Bend. You can check out their Web site daily for upcoming events at www.Century­Center.org. 
South Bend Regional Museum of Art 
You have probably been to the Snite, so why not head to the South Bend Regional Art Museum? Located in downtown South Bend across from the Marriott on St. Joseph St.. the museum showcases a variety of art. If you are an artist, consider contacting the curator and showing him your stuff. You really might be amazed at some of the stuff they hav.e in there. The Midwest is often criticized for being bland, but you'll find anything of the sort in the South Bend Regional Museum of Art, where a lot of the art 


Bendix Woods also hosts cross-country skiing c al setting. Just don't try to go sledding here; tru 

C 
ena, s 
O
THE Friday, February 9, 2000 BSERVER page 13 
1 South Bend· 
:onventional options for shaking off the Indiana winter blues 



is by Midwest artists. 
Chuck E. Cheese's 
Located at Town & Country Mall, Chuck E. Cheese's lets the kid in us 

come out and play some video games and eat some pizza, and if we are lucky, win some prizes. They still do birthdays and the band sounds better than ever. 
Video Stores 
There are 14 video stores in the South Bend vicinity that are at your dis­posal. Videos provide that simple escape at minimal cost. The clos­est video stores are Hollywood a n d Blockbuster, found right 

next  to  
Martin's  on  
Ironwood.  If  

they don't have what you want there, they probably do at Morris Classic Video on 31 north. Some winter classics that you will undoubtedly enjoy are "Jack Frost,""The S n o w Bunnies"and "Jingle All the Way." 

St. Patrick's Park 
Tubing and cross-country skiing is the name of the game at St. Patrick's Park. They are only open for fun on the weekends, though. It costs around $5 to rent ski equipment for one hour. You can ski from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. This Friday they are lighting up the park with torches and you can ski from 5 p.m. to 10 p.m. Tubing is every Saturday and Sunday from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. It could be a blast with a bunch of friends tearing down the hill all linked together. SL Pat's is located just off Laurel Rd. Take 31 N to Auten Rd. Take a left and then turn right on to Laurel. The park is on the left. 
Bendix Woods 
This park also has cross-country skiing. They also have a lot of nice hiking trails. The big selling point of this park is this: In the 1930's the Studebaker boys planted pine trees to shape the name Studebaker when looked at from the sky. They used to have tubing here as well, but someone got hurt on the hill and consequently there is no more tubing. And if you get a sled and try to go down, park rangers will yell at you. It used to be the biggest snow tube hill in the area. So if you want to go there and have some fun, it is 12 miles out of town. Take Western Avenue west. The park will be on your left. Coming up in 
March, Bendix Woods is having its annual Maple Syrup gathering and pancake breakfast. Every year the festival grows in size. Last year over 800 people attended. 
Shoveling Snow 
When the snow hits the ground, the shovels hit the snow. And no one knows this better than old people. Many of them have snowplows by now, but the ones that don't could really use your help, It might be a nice gesture to wake up early every day and, if it is snowing, go walk 
are: "Sorry,""Hungry-Hippos,""The Un-Game,""Pay-Day"and "Risk."Check-m-out! What's great about these games is that it doesn't matter what the weather is like, they are fun all the time. 
Dorm Rivalry 
Start some dorm rivalry. Nothing smells better to an Alumni man than sardines behind a Dillon man's radia­tor. PW women know nothing finer than the greasy hair look of a Badin Frog because all the showerheads were mysteriously missing in the morn­
around the nearby ing. Remember being
Throw that snowball at 
neighborhoods sur­told freshman year
that mean professor.
rounding Notre about dorm rivalries Dame and offer to Wake your roommate up and as the year went 
shovel people's dri­with a snow pie in the on, you realized that 
veways. They might there was hardly any­
face. That is what winter 
pay you, they might thing going on? A lit­ask to get money is for. tle prankstership 
from you, but what­ever happens, you will be enjoying win­ter the South Bend way: Helping neighbors and enjoying the outdoors. 
Swiss Valley 
Downhill skiing anyone? Just 40 minutes northeast of South Bend in the hills of Michigan there are some great ski slopes. Take 33 N to 12 E which will turn into highway 60. Take a left on Patterson Hill Rd. and you will be there. It costs $20 to ski and $15 to rent skis. You'll need a way to get there, but it is the closest place around. It isn't very big, but it should provide a good day's worth of fun and college memories. 
Howard Park Ice Skating 
There is a community park off Jefferson Blvd. It is about two miles 
could really whip the 
campus into a winter 

fun whirl. Check out www.pranks.com or www.strangepage.com for some good joke ideas. 
Some other ideas for fun times are the South Bend Motor Speedway (it isn't opened yet for the season, but it comes pretty fast), antique shopping in Niles or somewhere in Steuban County (east of here) you can go tobogganing down tiny icy paths. Call 
(800) LAKE-101 for the exact loca­tion. 
In the meantime, throw that snow­ball at that mean professor. Wake your roommate up with a snow pie in the face. That is what winter is for. 
south of Campus 
near the St. Joe 
River. Ice Skating 
is the name of the 
winter fun game 
here. The rink 
hours are as fol­
lows: Fri. 3-5:30, 
7-10. Sat. 10:15­
12, 1-3:30, 4-6, 7­
10. Sun. 1-3:30, 4­
3-5:30. Skate 
rental is $2 a per­
son and it is $3 to 
skate during one 
session. It is a 
great dating activi­
ty. 
Board Games 
Never underesti­mate the fun of the Parker Brothers q_r Milton Bradley. These guys have been inventing fun on cardboard squares for over 100 years now. If you can make it to Osco, you can buy your own game. If you can't, you 
SCOTT LITTLE/The Observer 

could just make up 
A romantic way to pass a chilly winter's eve, Ice skat­
your own board game. Some of my Ing at Howard Park Is available, complete with skate personal favorites rental. Make sure you go before the Ice starts to meltl 

page 14 

The Observer . SPORTS Friday, February 9, 200 I 
Zorich 
continued from page 24 
the Promised Land. If you look at the year before, they didn't win any games. He did the same thing here as he's doing there, taking his teams to a bowl game in only his second year. 
He knows how to build a team and take people who may not be the best at their position and find somewhere where they can be a leader. He sent his starting tail­back home for disciplinary reasons before the bowl game this year. 
I was mad that no one men­tioned in 1988 when he sent starters Ricky Watters and Tony Rice home before our game at No. 2 USC. That fused our team -no one could beat us, not even the Chicago Bears. The reason why was because you can either go home and cry or rally around each other. 
I would have taken a bullet for anybody on that squad that day. It's amazing because the same thing happened, and they were unbeatable that day too. The rea­son why he's successful is because he uses a lot of psychological tricks. 
He would call me into his office and tell me that the opposing coach that week said that I was short and overrated. I would go out and have an unbelievable game. One year, Air Force painted their visiting locker room pink. He came in and was furious. He knew about it beforehand, but we didn't. 
He told the managers to get ten gallons ofblack paint. and after we kick their butts, we'll paint this locker room black! We went out there and beat them and came in screaming "where's the paint?" He said "Guys, I thought about it dur­ing the game, and that's just not the Notre Dame way." 
He gets paid $60,000 per speech, so he knows what he's talking about. He is a master moti­vator. That's what I think Coach Davie lacks. Holtz taught us not just about football, but about life. 
He had an acronym WIN: What's Important Now. What was important now was a good prac­tice, not a national championship. He broke it down to that level. We were focussed on practices when we were 11·0 and about to play for the national championship. 
Q: In 2000, the football team had success despite some key injuries. In your opinion, what's the current state of Notre Dame football? Can Coach Davie win a national championship here? 
A: I personally don't think we 

should have been in the BCS Bowl. Holiday From the Heart, similar to 
They knew Notre Dame would 
your Marine Corps Reserve Toys A: I ran into a lot of problemshave a bunch of folks down there 
for Tots program. It has really about being taken seriously. I was or watching on TV, and it's all grown. 
walking into meetings as this pro­about money. A lot ·of times we'll come into a fessional athlete who gives back to 
They almost got beat by Air 
situation, and have the resources the community. and nothing else. I Force this year, and we're sup­to assL"t people. I like to say we're care about a lot of issues, and posed to be better than Air Force. a broker: we get needy folks on 
when I was speaking out about 
The Fiesta Bowl loss should be 
one end, and people that want to issues such as race, racial profiling 
plenty of motivation for Nebraska help on the other. It gives me an or sexism, nobody cared. next year. opportunity to live in two worlds; I then would feed 1500 people, one where people don't have and I had cameras everywhere. I'd 
Q: What do you think this team much like me for the first 21 years go on interviews and people would needs to add to become legiti­of my life. and one where nine say "Chris, you're a football player, 
mate national championship con­
hours later I'm at a table with just stick to playing football." I was tenders next year? CEOs and the Mayor of Chicago. It offended by that. If much is given blows me away. I helped walk kids to you, you have to do much for 
A: When we would go on the 
to school through gang-infested others. I played seven years in the field, we neigh­NFL and have my foundation. but I 
expected to b o 
r -feel like I have a lot more left in
"They're saying, hey. ifwe listen
win. I think 
hoods, me. I want to help people. 
that's what to the crazy. short. lispy guy, 
and it By cornering me as a jock-does­
lacks now. 
he'll take us to the Promised s a d -good-in-the-hood, it really irritated 
They're 
dened me. You're only expected to do or
Land."

going out on 
m e know a certain amount when 
the field to 
because you're an athlete. They wouldn't hopefully win Chris Zorich they lit­take me seriously on other issues. 
and try hard, on Lou Holtz's success in South Carolina er ally In order to affect change, I needed 
versus we 
feared to either do my foundation full were going 
for their time, or make and create laws. to win. No doubt about it. lives. I want to bring these worlds The law is an extremely powerful 
You can say that's cocky, but together, I'm talking job employ­thing. The law affects every facet when you have confidence in every ment in the future. We are a grass of life, and is the best tool to affect position on the field, you know roots organization, and a lot of change. you're going to win. Rocket, times I'm writing letters and fax­It gives me a certain level of Stonebreaker, Todd Lyght, me, at ing things. What's great is that we credibility to have a law degree every position we were terrific. have a great corps ofvolunteers. from a great school. However, the You have some great players here, What I'm ~g to get across to most important reason why I came but I think they lack a winning atti­people is that you to law school tude. You can't teach that. If you don' t need to is to set an could bottle it up, coaches would have money or "/ ran into a lot ofprob­example to give it to every guy on the team. success to start a the kids. 
lems about being taken 
I remember our practices, we foundation. You Where I would get in fights all the time. I can do other seriously. I care about a came from, wanted to hit Ricky Watters as things. If there's lot ofissues. and hwen I kids wanted 
hard as I could. It was something a gift that you . to be either a
was speaking out ...
that we just had. have, whether it's professional sewing, cooking, nobody cared ... athlete or a 
Q: During your NFL career, you or financial plan­drug dealer. created the Christopher Zorich ning, I know The drugs
Chris Zorich

Foundation. What is it about, many poor folks were easy;
on why he became a law student
what have you been able to who are in dire seven year-accomplish. and what are your need of financial old kids could future goals? planning. make $100 looking for police cars 
Understand what service is. It's in the area. 
A: I started it because I grew up not about writing a check, If you come from an area like I in a situation where I really didn't although that's what some organi­did, I want to show them that you have a lot. The first thing I wanted zations need to keep the lights on. can achieve things outside of your to do was give somebody the But, the most valuable thing that immediate environment. When opportunity to attend Notre Dame we all have is time. you're given more options, that's on a scholarship. I wanted to send If you can give an hour a week wonderful. Three percent of all some kids to school. to people who can benefit from attorneys in the United States ·are 
I didn't realize what went into your gift, then why not do that. It's black. starting a foundation. I sat down frustrating, my first year here; I These kids don't have the option. with my lawyer who was a 1991 wanted to go home. I spent the If you have the chance to see peo­Notre Dame Law School graduate. first year of my life dirt poor, living ple from your neighborhood suc­We set up an endowment and put on $250 per month. Then, I got ceed beyond a basketball or foot­together a plan. It really snow­involved in sports, and you ball court, it becomes real. I have balled. remember what's going on with been banned from talking to foot­
The first thing we did was load less fortunate people. ball teams because I tell the kids 97 turkeys into the back of my I have a website, www.chris­that they have a better chance of truck and distribute them in my zorich.org, if anyone wants more winning $50 million in the lotto old neighborhood. Since then, information. than they do of becoming a profes­we've assisted 75,000 people. We sional athlete. Be realistic, don't have five programs: scholarships, Q: After your NFL career, you "be like Mike." food, we deliver flowers to women returned to Notre Dame as a law in shelters, School is Cool, and studenl Why law school? Q: How about after law school? 
What are your future plans? 
A: I want to deal with real peo­ple and real problems. I don't want to help corporations, I want to help someone who has been evicted, needs a divorce. or needs a will. I don't want to be defined as just a football player or just a lawyer. If I'm ever defined as being just a football player, than I haven't worked hard enough. If you look at [Former Minnesota Vikings hall of famer and current Minnesota State Supreme Court Justice] Alan Page, you look at a person who is at the top of his game. a Renaissance man. I want to use the weapon of law to affect change. In order to affect change, you're going to have to think about politics. 
You need a voice and you need power. Politics is an option. Right now, Chicago will be my starting point where I open up my own lit­tle general law practice. I have the freedom because I don't have debt like other students. 
Q: You don't fit the profile of an average law student. Do you find it difficult to learn and interact with younger students who have vastly different life experiences and backgrounds? 
A: We have a lot of classmates that haven't paid bills before. If you can take a couple years off to live, I would definitely encourage it. 
It's a rough situation, though, where you want to go back to school but you have a nice car and all this nice stuff, or married with a kid, and itjust doesn't happen. 
I really think, though. that you need to go out for a couple years before you come back. You get folks who think what happens in the book is like law. 
It doesn't work like that. I have nothing against them, but it's two totally different experiences. You can't blame them because they don't have the experiences that you have. 
Q: Do you consider yourself a role model? 
A: I would never consider myself a role model, I would never say that. I don't want to necessarily say, "Hey, follow me," because I've done some bad things in my life. If you look at me as an example because I overcame some things, that's fine. 
You tend to say that if you're a celebrity or an athlete, than people should look up to you. That's wrong. It should be your parents, folks in your community, church, or wherever you find people who want to help others. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. A1 classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
LOST & FOUND 
SIZEABLE REWARD OFFERED: For a lost gold and silver bracelet with alternating silver and gold blocks, if found please contact Rachel Phillips at 4-1492 or email i;;ihillii;;is 75~nd edu 
Suppressed Dead Sea Scrolls & Nag Hammadi Codices Research: www.geocities.com:80/Athens/Rho des/7031/deadsea.html 
FOR RENT 
3-5 bedroom homes nearo campus 232-2595 mmmrentals@aol.com 
Available 4 bedroom. Available 2 bedroom. Dave 291-2209 !Dil!.Q&@mii;tliana.Qcg 

Available immediately duplex I Br 1 
1.2 ba less than 1 mile from ND $330 wk+utils. Discount for Payment by Month or Semester. Security Deposit Required. 1-800-867-5901 or 1­877-288-9330 
Available immediately duplex I Br 1 ba Efficiency 1 mile from ND $150 wk {Includes utils) Discount for Payment by Month or Semester. Security Deposit Req'd. 1-800-867· 5901 or 1 •877-288·9330 
Available March 2001 duplex I 2 BR 1 ba Efficiency less than 1 mile from ND $250 (Includes utils). 
Discount for Payment by Month or Semester. Security Deposit Required. 1-800· 867-5901 or 1-877-288-9330 
Lafayette Next Year 5 bdrm. Wash/ dry $1305/mth marty 232· 1306 Rooms for rent & share home. 65· 75 week includes utilities and cable. 233-4013 
CONDOS FOR RENT FOR JPW VISITORS: Why not reserve ­close to ND Na fully fully furnished condo containing kitchen with refrig­erator, microwave, disposal, dish­ware, laundry facility and fireplace on the corner of Ivy Rd. & Edison Rd? Available tor extended stay or for weekends. Contact Unicorn Management at 219·232· 1242 for assistance or leave message on the reservations line 219-273-IVYND (4896) 
WANTED 
Would you like an opportunity to earn a $10,000 scholarship towards next year's tuition? Looking for an ND student to work at a summer beach estate from 5/15/2001 ­8115/2001 in Eastern Long Island (Hamptons), New York. Live-in position (room and board provided) with beach,pool, and house respon• sibilities. Work 6 days per week. Applicant must be very responsible, industrious, hard working, a self• starter, impeccably well groomed, with a nice amiable personality. Room and board provided plus spending money and $10,000 towards tuition. Please send resume and a one-page statement on why you think you should be hired to: Box 153, 60 E.Chestnut St., Chicago, IL 60611. 

Full time Ph.D. student research tel­lowships are available in the Cell and Molecular Physiology Graduate Program of Loyola University Chicago. Research areas include ion channel molecular biology, bio­physics and biochemistry, cardiac electrophysiology, calcium dynam­ics and excitation-contraction cou­piing, signal transduction, neuro­physiology, and neural and immune components of trauma and injury biology. Applications are sought from individuals motivated to become biomedical research scien­tists. See our web page at 
www.medQei.l. ly1:;.eQy[!umeoLQ~p1 
Webs/HYSIO or contact Dr. Stephen B. Jones, Department of Physiology, Stritch School of Medicine, Loyola University Chicago, 2160 South First Avenue, Maywood, IL 60153. Telepone (708) 327-2470. E-mail: sjooes@lumc.edu Loyola University is an equal oppor­!unity/affirmative action employer. 
SPECIAL 

VALENTINE CLASSIFIEDS! VALENTINE CLASSIFIEDS! 
Send your sweetheart a Valentine classified in The Observer. Deadline is 2 p.m. 2/13. 
Free airline miles and CA$H! It is international and 100% FREE to join (but not for long!) http://thepay­line.com. click to ENROLL without any delay as everyone joining after you from whole world will be placed under you in one straight line earn­ing you free airline miles. SIGN UP! Use my email address as your referrer: lt!fi'2!JtQU'1@e~rthlink. net Questions? Send me an email! 
Congratulations, Kerry! 
Mike, we might actually get to sleep now. 
Well, once a week, anyway. 
OK, News, very funny. The poll can stop now. 
Happy 21st Birthday Rob! 
Welcome tot he world of no sleep 
The !onliest mangina 

Friday, February 9, 2001 page 15
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
-TUDOR KING TUDOR HOUSE 

TUTORING!! 

' -· ..... ~:, ' , 'J ' 



Come to 1010 Flanner Hall on March 1 at 7:00 p.m. 
For more information please call 1-4447 or visit: http://ieiweb.flanner.nd.edu:8020/ 


page 16 Friday, February 9, 200 I 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


..... 

: l : l 
, I 
' . 
I I 
: / I I I I I I I 
FRIDAY 
FEBRUARY 9, 
INTUITIVE RAIN and 
THE DUNN 
BROTHERS 

ONLY "i,.;_, 
SATURDAY 
FEBRUARY 10, 
DANIELLE ROSE 
and 

THE DUNN 
BROTHERS 
GOI BESIDES THE ONLY THING WE'D Bt MISSING ARE OLD FULL HOUSE AERUNS 

TICKETS ON SALE FOR $5 AT THE LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK OR AT THE DOOR PROCEEDS TO BENEFIT THE CHILEAN ORPHANAGES www.nd.edu/-bothers 

Friday, February 9, 2001 

The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
MEN'S TRACK AND FIELD 

Notre Dame heads to Canada 
By NOAH AMSTATDER Assistant Sports Editor 
With one more week to go before the Big East Championships, the Notre Dame men's track and field team decided to switch the schedule around a bit. 
Rather than running the Cannon IV Classic in Indianapolis this weekend, the team is sending a small unit up to the University of Windsor Team Challenge in Windsor, Ontario on Saturday. 
"The decision was made probably about 10 days ago," said head coach Joe Piane. "The meet down in Indianapolis -there are some events on Friday and then nothing starts on Saturday until late in the afternoon. You'd miss class on Friday, and you wouldn't get back until 2 
a.m. on Sunday at the earli­est." 
The Ontario meet pro­vides the athletes a chance to compete on a 200-meter, flat track for the first time this indoor season, a cru­cial experience as the Big East meet at Syracuse takes place on such a track. 
"This is really our only opportunity all indoor sea­son to compete on the same kind of facility that we're going to compete at the Big East Championships on," said sprints coach John Millar. "Some of our fresh­man especially -they've never even been on a 200­meter track. We're trying to give them at least an opportunity to see what it's all about." 

The 13 athletes heading to our northern neighbor are either looking for a final tune-up before the conference meet or looking to qualify. "We're sending people up that may need a competition or if some­body's on the cusp of quali­fying, trying to give them that opportunity," said Piane. 
One of those targeted ath­1etes is Sean McManus, who will compete in the 3,000 meters as his special­ty, the 5,000-meters, is not an event at the meet. Another athlete looking to break through for a trip to New York is high jumper Craig Novosel-Johnson, who cleared 6 feet, 5 inches last Saturday. 
"He had some good attempts at 6-7 this last weekend," said field events coach Scott Winsor. "That's exactly why I'm taking him. He cleared 6-5. He had some really good attempts at the next height. He's borderline -if he jumps well he'll go next week." 
Middle-distance runner Nick Setta will get a chance to kick it into gear in a longer sprint, as he will compete in the 600-meters. In preparation for running the 400-meters next week­end, senior Terry Wray and freshman James Bracken will run the 300-meters. 
"It's kind of an off dis­
tance for them but it's a 
good indicator of based on 
how they run the 300­
meters what they're capa­
ble of in the 400," Millar 
said. 

Senior Travis Davey will also take part in the 300­meter race, as well as run­ning the 60-meters. "We want to get him on the small track and just kind of see where he's at," Millar said. "We might need him on the mile r~lay at the conference meet as well." 
Nathan Cahill will be the lone competitor in the pole vault, as teammate Josh Heck is suffering from a pulled gluteus muscle. 
"He's been having some glute problems -really really tight after vault ses­sions," Winsor said. "We just vaulted him today. He's going to vault again Monday and ride it in to the Big East." 
Godwin Mbagwu and Tom Gilbert look for one final tune-up in the long jump, while Mbgawu also competes in the triple jump. Winsor is looking for a break-out performance from Gilbert, who took sec­ond last weekend despite battling the flu. 
"I really look for Tom to bust some good jumps in the next couple of weeks," Winsor said. "I think 24 is conservative for what Tom can do. He hits a good one, he's going to be out there." 
In the throws, Brian Thornberg, Derek Dyer and John Scolaro will compete in the weight-throw and shot-put. 
The opportunity to com­
pete against unfamiliar 
competition excites Winsor. 
"These guys are excited 
about going to Canada and 
competing against some 
Canadians," Winsor said. 

SUMMER INTERNSHIP OPPORTUNITIES 
at aWORLD-CLASS/GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FACILITY 
WOMEN'S TRACK AND FIELD 
Irish vaulters tune up for Big East meet in Canada 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's women's pole vault crew is arguably the best in the Big East -in every meet this season, at least one athlete has broken the indoor school record. 
They are consistent -every week they jump within a foot of each other. The only question remaining is how high the four vaulters can soar. 
When Jaime Volkmer, Jennifer Van Weelden, Natalie Hallett and Bethany Wilson travel to Canada this weekend to compete in the Windsor Classic, the international community will get a glimpse of just how good the Irish vaulters are. 
Jaime Volkmer, whose 12-foot vault last week at the Meyo Invitational set the current school record, has an excellent chance to qualify for the NCAA Tournament, according to field events coach Scott Winsor. 
"Quite.frankly, the main focus with her right now is making it to the NCAAs," he said. "She's definitely capable of doing that." 
In order to provisionally qualify for the NCAA Indoor Championships, Volkmer needs to clear 12-4 at either Saturday's meet or at next weekend's Big East Indoor Championships. 
However, Volkmer isn't the only star vaulter on the Irish squad. In fact, the Notre Dame vaulters hold four of the top nine top vaults in the Big East -Volkmer, Van Weelden and Hallett are ranked two-three-five in the confer­ence right now. In the Big East cham­pionship meet, the top eight places will score points. 
Winsor isn't worried about his 

vaulters getting tired from vaulting 
four consecutive weekends in a row. 
"It's not like they're wearing down," 

he said. "We've only had three meets. 
Keep them on the runway, keep them 
fresh, and get them ready for the Big 
East. All four can score." 
The Irish were originally scheduled 

to compete in Indianapolis this week­
end. But the Notre Dame coaching 
staff believed it would be better for their athletes to travel to Canada. 
"Logistically, it's just an easier meet for us," said sprints coach John Millar. "This is really our only opportunity all season to compete at the Big East Championships on. Some of our fresh­man especially -they've never even been on a 200-meter track. We're try­ing to give them at least an opportuni­ty to see what it's all about." 
Notre Dame is only sending a small group of athletes. Junior Liz Grow, who ran 53.3 last week and has the fastest times for the Irish in the 60, 200 and 400-yard dashes, will not be travelling with the team. Instead, the Irish are focusing on sending a select group of athletes who need important competition. 
All-American Tameisha King will be competing in the long jump and the 60-meter dash and hurdles. However, she will only take three jumps instead of the normal six in the long jump and will run only the preliminaries in the running events, according to Millar. 
In addition, Ayesha Boyd and Kristen Dodd will also run the 60­meter dash. Dodd and Kymia Love, who ran a personal-best 400 last week, will run the 300-meter dash. Ana Morales will run the 1,000-meter run, an event she may compete in at Big East tourname·nt. And Betsy Lazzeri will join King in the hurdles and will also high jump as she pre­pares for the Big East pentathlon com­petition. 
Notes: 
. Fifth-year senior thrower Emily Bienko has been cleared for a fifth­. year ofNCAA competition. 
Bienko did not compete at last week­end's Meyo Invitational as Irish coach­es awaited eligibility confirmation. 
"She's good to compete," Piane said. "Her sophomore year she had a knee operation and didn't compete in any competition. It was just a question of getting the paperwork done." 
Bienko, who is currently a law stu­dent at Notre Dame, did not anticipate competing for a fifth year and did not immediately apply for another year of eligibility. 

The University of Notre Dome Deportment of Mu5ic focu!ty Artist Series presents 
The Environmental Research Institute, a joint activity of Notre Dame and Argonne National Laboratory, in collaboration with the Center for Environmental Science and Technology (CEST), will award up to 2 summer internships at Argonne National Laboratory for 2001 with afollow-up research appointment on campus in the Fall. Stipend, room and board are provided for the 10-week program at Argonne. 
Student applicants should have research interests in an environmentally-related discipline (mu: field of study) 
Tidets required: SJ students; $6 ienion; S8 ND/SMC employees; $10 general admission Tickets are ovailoble at the Lafortune Box Of/ice, 12191631-8128.
concerned with or likely to contribute to the understanding, assessment, or improvement of the environment. 
For more informotioo, please coll 12191631-6201 or vi,it our web site ot v.ww,nd.edu/'congoers 
Applicants must be US citizens or permanent residents, enrolled at Notre Dame, have completed their Junior Year 

NTERNATIONAL WORKING OPPORTUNITY 
by May 2001, and be registered to return in the Fall of2001. 
For more details, contact Donna Fecher in the Center for Environmental Science and Technology: 152A Fitzpatrick Hall, 631-8376. 


RECRUITING DATES: February 14 & 15, 200i at Career and Placement Services. Japanese
Applicants will be required to complete an application. 
Language .skills NOT required. Open to all majors.
Deadline is February 23, 2001. 
.,.__________________________.
SIGN UPS NOW OPEN 
page 18 

The Observer . SPORTS Friday, February 9, 2001 

WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish take on to~ranked players in weekend tourney 
who paired up with Katie ranked No. 1 in the
By STEVE KEPPEL 
Cunha for doubles last nation. Both Beilick and
Sports Writer 
weekend. "I have prac­Bergman are returning ticed a lot of doubles and all-Americans and will 
After a successful 2-0 that is something \Ye hope greatly test the abilities of outing last weekend, the to do better in this week­the Irish women. 11th-ranked Notre Dame end". The Irish will then take women's tennis team will The doubles point was on a scrappy North take on Virginia Tech on the only point that the Carolina team that is cur­Friday Irish lost rently ranked 41st but is followed against hungry for an upset after by Wake "We definitely need to Western some big victories. The Forest Michigan Tarheels are lead by
step it up a little bit in 

and North and they Sophomore Marlene Mejia
our doubles play.,, 

Carolina believe they who is 20-4 on the season 
o n will need and 11th in the country. Saturday Kimberly Guy that point as Mejia is coming off a great a n d they take on performance in the Rolex
senior

l 
Sunday. three tough Nationals where she T h e teams this advanced to the concilia­Irish demolished both week. tion match of the Finals. 
I Illinois State and \Vestern Wake Forest is a very The Irish who have Michigan by scores of 7-0, strong team and are moved up two places from 6-1 respectively. After an ranked 8th in the country. 13th to 11th have their opening loss to Duke the Michelle Dasso will have work cut out for them this Irish have really picked her work cut weekend up their play and look to out for her as but feel 

..If we beat Wake 
play well again this week­she will take that if they end. on 1st ranked Forest, we would def­play well "We had a good feeling singles player initely move into the and win all this week because we Bea Bielick in t h r e e
Top 10. ••

were successful and this No. 1 dou­matches was especially good for bles. they will our confidence," said T h e Kimberly Guy have a senior Kimberly Guy. Deamon g o o d
senior 

Despite their seemingly Deacons will chance to flawless performance, the also give the advance Irish still think they have Irish trouble in doubles even higher in the rank­some things to work on play as Bielick, who is ings. for this weekend. only a sophomore, teams "If we beat Wake Forest 
"We definitely need to up with Wake Forest we would definitely move step it up a little bit in our Junior Janet Bergman in a into the Top 10," added doubles play," said Guy doubles team that is also Kimberly Guy. 

Talarico, and Javier Taborga." be overpowering at times." game face to the court on Sunday we're playing well, I'd certainly Two of Duke's doubles teams Even though the Hawkeyes do should assure the Irish a win. hope to win. I think we are going
Tennis 

are also highly touted, evidenced not seem to pose a big threat, "They are certainly not as to play a good match, and I by the 23rd and 25th rankings Notre Dame will still need to play strong of a team as Duke," expect to play well." 
continued from page 24 

given to the squad's top two pair­at its highest level. Bringing their Bayliss said. "It's a match that if 


ings. However. the 38th-ranked while Cerenko landed a spot in Irish combination of Taborga the quarterfinals. and Talarico are sure to not 
"They're very good," Bayliss make things easy for the Blue noted. "It's certainly a match Devils. As usual. the duo will take while I'm sure we're an under­on the duties at No. 1 doubles, dog on paper, it's not a match I and look to improve on their 3-1 go into thinking we don't have a record in dual matches this sea­realistic chance to win." son. 
Looking to overcome one of the Sunday's battle against the nation's most elite tennis pro­Iowa Hawkeyes won't pit the grams and improve on their 3-1 Irish against such a star-studded record, the Irish lineup will be lineup as Duke's, but Iowa's lead by Casey Smith. Smith has squad isn't without a few raised no doubts about who weapons itself. should lead the Irish by racking Iowa, which is 1-0 after a sea­up a sparkling 4-0 singles record son-opening win over Northern in the No. 1 position. The combi­Illinois, is led by senior Tyler nation of Luis Haddock-Morales, Cleveland, who took last semes­Aaron Talarico, and Javier ter off to compete in individual Taborga will fill in the second, singles tournaments. Towering third, and fourth slots for the at six feet and three inches, Irish, leaving the fifth and sixth Cleveland is known for his pow­spots open to Matt Scott, Brian erful game. Farrell, or Andrew Laflin. "I think Casey feels, and I feel. 
"Casey has sort of, at this point, that he certainly has a chance earned the right to stay at num­against Cleveland [at No. 1 sin­ber one," Bayliss said. "Two, gles)," Bayliss said. "But certainly three, and four are pretty even Tyler hits a 125 mile-per-hour between Luis Haddock, Aaron serve, he's a big guy, and he can 




Work for The Observer Ad Design Department 
If you are a FRESHMAN OR SOPHOMORE with Mac knowl­edge, design skills, and want to work for a few hours a week, call Chris Avila at 634-0886 or stop by The Observer office in the basement of the South Dining Hall. You will not find a better job on campus! Great Pay!! Very Flexible!!! 


Friday, February 9, 2001 

The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
FENCING 

No. 2 Notre Dame looking to dethrone No. I Stanford 
year. The Cardinal are likely onship. 15-10. Since that loss. easy victories against even the enced," she said. "We know
By MIKE CONNOLLY 

the only team standing Debic has won 29 of his last 30 best competition. The squad what to expect. A lot of people
Sports Writer 

between the Irish and a perfect bouts. features four strong fencers. In just started traveling with us record. The Irish have won 36 Stanford also features All-additon to Szelle and this year. Now they know what 
In its toughest test of the sea­matches in a row American Bednarski, Andre Crompton to expect." 
son since the opening weekend, dating back to sabreman and Matt Fabricant also have Against the Cardinal,
the Notre Dame fencing team 1999. R o b e r t All-American potential but only Boutsikaris should expect her
"/ think we are more

travels to Duke this weekend to "I don't think Owens and two fencers from each school toughest test of the year. The
experienced. We know
face several national powers. we are by far the A I I -can qualify for NCAAs and earn NCAA 2000 champion,"That is going to be just as best men's team what to expect.·· American All-American status. Monique De Bruin, leads the tough as our first week in New but I think we are e pee o st Stanford's women's team is Stanford women. York," sabreman Gabor Szelle one of the best," E r i c strong as well. The seventh­While none of the other
Liza Boutsikaris 

said about the meet against Viviani said. Tribett but ranked Irish will look to pull of schools are as strong as 
Stanford, Duke, Air Force, The Cardinal is Irish foilist the Irish another upset this weekend Stanford, the Irish will face 
North Carolina and Ohio State. led by its foil boast the against the No. 3 Cardinal. On several tough individual The men are currently squad which fea-best sabre the last to weekends, the Irish fencers from Ohio State this 
ranked second in the country tures 2000 NCAA squad in have upset Northwestern. weekend. 
and will look to bounce the Champion Felix Reichling and the country according to The Irish have improved Ohio State features a pair of 
Cardinal from its No. 1 perch. All-American Alex Woods. Auriol. Led by 2000 NCAA greatly since their 1-3 weekend strong men's epeeists in Geoff Jan Viviani said head coach Reichling defeated Notre Dame Champion Szelle .and All-to open the season, according Kane and Alan Jones as well as Yves Auriol expects the men's All-American Ozren Debic in American Andrzej Bednarski, to foilist Liza Boutsikaris. All-American women's foilist team to go undefeated this the finals of the 2000 champi-the sabre squad has cruised to "I think we are more experi-Fane Groes. 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Tennessee crushes Mississippi, 119-52 
Purdue has given up this sea­
Associated Press 
son. The previous high against the Boilermakers had been 72 

KNOXVILLE -by No. 1 Notre Dame. 
Kara Lawson scored 22 Before January, Iowa had not points, including five 3-point­defeated a Top 25 team since ers, and April McDivitt scored February 1998. Now the 19 points as No. 2 Tennessee Hawkeyes have done it twice in beat Mississippi 119-5 2 19 days. They beat then-No. 13 Thursday night. Penn State 79-64 on Jan. 21. 
The Lady Vols (24-1, 10-0 After a poor opening half Southeastern Conference) have defensively, Purdue was much won 13 straight since losing to more efficient on both ends of Connecticut on Dec. 30 and 32 the court in the second half and in a row at home against SEC clawed back. The Boilermakers opponents. got to within eight points in the 
The win was not Tennessee's first three minutes of the half biggest rout of the season. That and stayed within striking dis­was a 72-point win over tance the rest of the way. Kentucky on Jan. 21. 
. Ashley Robinson added 12 No. 8 Louisiana Tech 83, points and eight rebounds and Louisiana-Lafayette 68 Michelle Snow and Tasha Butts Ayana Walker and Brooke each added 11 for Tennessee. Lassiter each scored 16 points McDivitt hit 4-of-5 3-pointers. and No. 8 Louisiana Tech beat 
Sherika Wright scored 14 Louisiana-Lafayette. points and Saundra Jackson The Lady Techsters (20-4, added 13 to lead .the Lady 11-0 Sun Belt) took advantage Rebels (15-7, 3-6). who have of 24 fouls and 20 turnovers by lost eight straight to Tennessee Louisiana-Lafayette (7-15. 1­since Feb. 4, 1996, in Oxford, 10) to extend its winning streak Miss. to eight games overall and 47 
Turnovers and poor shooting in the conference. were the Lady Rebels' downfall. The Lady Techsters are 37-0 Tennessee scored 25 points off against Louisi'ana-Lafayette, 18 of the Lady Rebels' but it was the first time in 16 turnovers in the first half. games that Tech failed to win 
by 40 or more points against the Lady Cajuns. .
Iowa 96, No. 5 Purdue 87 
Tech, which had a 52-34

Lindsey Meder scored 29 rebounding advantage, took apoints, Mary Berdo added a 
45-28 halftime lead and held oncareer-high 23 and Iowa led all 

as Louisiana-Lafayettethe way in handing No. 5 

outscored the· Techsters by 40­

. All ·IN .STARKVILLE! 
Purdue its first Big Ten loss. 

·•.,-,;.i:~--, ·? :;-· ,,. )'' ', . __ J.·-, ··{--~-.!L 
38 in the second half. 

Iowa (13-8, 8-3 Big Ten) shot 
~.s. ~,r~_Nf>tf~tDatp:~ Fi~h~ing~:l~sh.,,~Jnd. the, UNO::Privateers ~tep 
63.3 percent in the first half and led by as many as 18 No. 14 LSU 74, Alabama 58 

.,_ ·• ~11~_tp t~~ ~},te}?~c1~!le ~is~issippi Stafe'Uni\rersity F~ll. J687J8 
points before holding off the Marie Ferdinand scored 16 
at.t~~-Na,1onat,:Bank<:(lf.CoDUJier~e.C1c1,_sie; StarlmUe 'iiivit~-~ you 
Boilermakers late to end their points to lead No. 14 LSU to 13-game winning streak. victory over Alabama. 
·0,~0-h~ye a_wi?lling pm~i:·~t ?ur gr~at, ~~~;t~11~~-t3'.:~~)~l•~c~ct.1ty:t. 
Not even the return of Katie It was an easy victory for LSU 
.. 

,_,ho_~s. The ~1~. o,l:~ta~!fyilJt\W:,e~~~lil:~!-'! aJll!t;P-,~p~:'. N~!~:Pa-,e•;,~ 
Douglas could save Purdue (21-(16-6~ 6-3 Southeastern l)as,eb~ fans--µ~ f!I~H~t ~~() ~tts· the,g~et,1~ ·1: ~<;: _, ',. ,, C t .· ' l 

4, 11-1) from the surging Conference), which shot 58 per­Hawkeyes, who have won five cent for the game. straight and shot 55.6 percent The Tigers led by as many as 
; . l :, '~,., '•; ., \.'·::~#,¥JL • '.~~~ ILZOUI 3 p.m. 
for the game. 13 points in the first half, 23 in Douglas. who sat out the second-half when LSU shot · )< Febntaey 17. 2001 
Purdue's victory over Michigan 67 percent and made four 3­
,UNO vs. Notre Dame 10 a.m. 
last Sunday because of a point baskets. 
-• 0MSUvs~.Notre Dame I p.m. 
AR ·,,. 

sprained ankle, played 23 min­After winning 12 of 13 games
4 

. ·. \;February 18. 2001 
utes and scored 21 points to open the season, Alabama
visitors and conventi · MSU va."Notre Dame 1:30 p.m. C O U. ,n.,,Qt j 
before fouling out with 32.5 (16-7, 4-6) has lost six of 10. · Call and ask for our EBE£ 
seconds left. On this night, that Doneeka Hodges had 13 for
,,iiiti~~J~i 
I' 

wasn't enough. LSU, Roneeka Hodges added 12
tjui~ou Couni;nhiv1tejtyqu; 4 : Slaopplq/Dlniqllodging guide 
. ' ·cer&rat'e Sf.srkvlllet· ·.•· .. ,:\"· and 10 F-'Dhlg• lo Do brochur-e 
The 96 points were the most and Ke-Ke Tardy 11. 
, j'; ··l 

before you come! 
www.starkvllle.org..itt 

· ;l,'5.r-,-:.c,: • 1-800-649-8687 ext. 578
i .. 


... -------­
-----· 

page 20 Friday, February 9, 200 l 
The Observer . SPORTS 

Basketball 
continued from page 24 
ly. It also has to do with the fact that we're Notre Dame, and the fact that we're leading the Big East." 
So will the Irish, who have won their past six games, do anything differently to get ready for the hostile environ­ment? 
"If it's not broke," junior power forward Ryan Humphrey said, "don't try to fix it." 
Since the teamwork the Irish have perfected has put the Irish a game in front of their opponents in the Big East West Division, the Irish will stick with their game plan. They will attempt to ignore the rau­cous environment in West Virginia Coliseum, an atmos­phere that includes a musket being shot off 

during the "We· ll just try to intent for acade­
announcement of mic reasons.
keep out poise and 
the starting line­With four play­up and various keep our composure. ers set to gradu­
fans wearing We don't want to let ate a year from 
coon skin hats. now, Brey might 
the crowd force us
"We'll just try not want to hold 
to keep our poise into doing things we over the addi­and keep our don't want to.,, tional scholar-
composure," ship, which Graves said. "We would leave 
David Graves
don't want to let Notre Dame the crowd force Irish guard scrambling to 
us into doing things we don't want to." 
The Irish have managed to control the tempo throughout their six-game winning streak. Even when they trailed on the road at Georgetown and Pittsburgh, the Irish didn't get rattled like they did in early season tests. 
"We have shown we have not gotten flustered when things aren't going well," Irish coach Mike Brey said. "We under­stand we need to slow down and not get out of character as much." 
Graves has been on the ball since teammate Harold Swanagan replaced him in the starting lineup. All-American Troy Murphy leads the league, as usual, in points. Point guard Martin Ingelsby and shooting guard Matt Carroll are the top two in the league in assist-to­turnover ratio, with the solid six lineup keeping the Irish on a roll. 
For West Virginia, Moss is back with his squad. The junior center took a brief leave of absence from the Mountaineers following his outburst at Notre Dame. 
Other top players for the Mountaineers, who edged Pittsburgh 69-68 Thursday night, include sophomore guard Tim Lyles, senior for­ward Calvin Bowman and junior guard Lionel Armstead. 
"You don't fear your oppo­
•• ••• .

. Sacred Heart Parish Center has rooms available for your parents . 
• • ..
• ..
•• • .• 
• • ..
• .•
• • ..
• •• . . • 
• • .. 
• . 

Weekend cost is $60.00 per parent. Whether you stay two, three, or four nights . Rooms are available Thursday through Sunday . 
For reservations, call 219-631-7512 
nent, but you respect them," Graves said. "We certainly respect West Virginia. If we don't bring it on Sunday. they'll hand it to us." 
That's exactly what the Irish want to avoid, since they're in a strong position to win their division. Finishing among the top four in the Big East would earn the Irish a first-round bye in the Big East Tournament come March. 
Notes 
. Brey is not ruling out taking a transfer at the end of this season, especially if he could get a player half as solid as Humphrey, a transfer from Oklahoma. 
"If you could find a good transfer fit," Brey said, "I have an open mind to that." 
An extra scholarship opened up for the Irish last week after recruit Jemere Hendrix was 
released from his letter of 
fill five spots. 

"The reason I like ·a transfer rather than an 18-year-old senior is he sits out next year when those hors­es are seniors," Brey said. "You ·lose those guys and we would hopefully have a quality guy ready to go. I don't want to make it Transfer U., but it's something you have to look at. You're always looking for new ·pools of talent." 
Brey hasn't committed to fill­ing the open slot, even though he could have yet another position come April should Murphy jump to the NBA. 
"We're still exploring some 
seniors," Brey said. 'Tm not 
counting on a senior emerging 
that fits us well." 
DUFFY-MARIE ARNOUL T/The Observer 

Notre Dame guard Martin lngelsby drives around St. John's Omar Cook during Notre Dame's 83-73 win Monday, Feb. 5. With the win, the Irish grabbed first place in their division of the Big East. 

Saint Mary's College presents 
Friday 

February 16, 2001 
8:00 p.m. 
Saturday 

February 17, 2001 
8:00 p.m . 

Little Theatre
..,......,.c-,,o 
!18-f;ffk'k,
~"°,.......... 

Call the Saint Mary's box office for tickets: 
284-4626 


Friday, February 9, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
HOCKEY 
Notre Dame looks for clean sweep against Bowling Green 
. Irish need wins to keep playoff hopes alive 
ByJEFF BALTRUZAK 
Sports Writer 
For Notre Dame, the CCHA playoffs might as well start now. 
The Irish need a sweep this weekend against Bowling Green at the Joyce Center to keep their flickering postsea­son hopes alive -an ambi­tious goal for a struggling team that hasn't swept a team this season. 
Bowling Green enters the weekend tenth in the CCHA standings, residing in the final playoff spot. 
If the Irish could take two from the Falcons, the two squads would be tied with 14 points. 
Lake Superior State also 

·************************* 
lurks with 12 points. Because had a good week of prac­the first tiebreaker for the tice." playoffs is the season series, Poulin tried to distribute a sweep would put the Irish Notre Dame's scoringin the driver's seat over throughout the lineup byBowling Green. 
splitting up the Irish's topWhile Bowling Green (5-11-offensive line of Dan Carlson,4 in the CCHA) comes to Ryan Dolder. and freshman 
South Bend hot after sweep­Aaron Gill on Sunday versus 
ing  Lake  Ohio  State, 
Superior State  and the three­ 
this past week­end. the Irish are just 3-14-4 in league action.  "We know we need to win both games. The guys know this could be ·t ..l .  s ti 11 scored all the Irish goals in the game. "He has  
Ohio  State  good  reasons  
did away with Notre Dame twice last  Ryan Dolder Irish offensive lineman  for doing it," said Dolder. "You hate to  
weekend, and  see  a  line  
the Irish can- broken  up, 
not  seem  to  but  he was  

find their scoring groove. trying to get a spark going
"We played well against for the second line, and both Ohio State, we just didn't lines played well on Sunday."win," said head coach Dave More interesting is Notre Poulin. "I feel really good Dame's weekly who's-the­[about Bowling Green]. we've goalie intrigue. 
Poulin has started sopho­more Tony Zasowski the past four games. 
* 
*
* Join the Notre Dame French Club for the French film * 
*
* 
!* LA PATINOIRE 
a (THE ICE RINK) 
* MOVIE IS IN FRENC:-t WITH ENGLISH SUBTITLES SO ALL ARE WELCOME! 
* 
!* Sunday, February 11 
* 2PM 
!* 
Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art 
* Admission Is FREE * 
*
* 
Sponsored by Le Cercle Francals, The Nanovlc Institute, ISLA, and the
* 
Department of Romance Languages 
*
* 
We make one too many pass­
************************* 

-. Large 2-Bedroom floorplan -Student Leases Available -4 Blocks From Campus 
ONLY A FEW LEFT -SECURE 
YOUR APARTMENT TODAY. 
"The Best Value In Off Campus Living" 
Professionally Managed by Real Estate Management Corp. 
234-9923 

Three of those games were losses and Zasowski allowed 
* 
* 
21 goals in those four con­
* 
tests. Two other goalies, 
junior Jeremiah Kimento, and senior Kyle Kolquist,
* 

have played this season.
* 

As of Thursday, Poulin had
* 

still not decided which goalie!* would get the nod against Bowling Green. To hope to continue into
athe postseason, the Irish must improve both ways on the power play.
* 
Notre Dame gave up five goals in 13 chances while

* 
skating a man down in two 


* 
!* games against Ohio State. In their last 13 games. Notre Dame has killed just 74.1 percent of their opponents' 
power plays.

* With a man advantage, the
:: 

Irish are struggling, convert­ing on 10.8 percent of their
* 

power plays this season. On average, Notre Dame* only gets one shot off per
* 
power play.


* 
"It's been a focus point of

* 
practice," said Dolder. "On the power play, we're not

* 
shooting the puck enough.


* 


LISA VELTE/The Observer 

Senior Ryan Dolder recleves the puck during a game earlier this season. The Irish must win both games this weekend to stay alive In the CCHA playoff hunt. 
es, looking for the pretty Green. play." The record was previously Loyal Domers shouldn't held by '82 team member 
·1eave the Joyce Center if the John Schmidt. third period finds Notre Brett Lebda, a freshman Dame trailing. defenseman, has supplied 
For the season, Notre significant offense to the Dame's offensive output has Irish cause. been highest in the third His 19 points put him in period, and the Irish defense third place in scoring has allowed the least shots defensemen, and he leads and goals in the final twenty freshman defensemen in minutes. scoring. 
Senior left winger Carlson Overall. the Irish need a has his eye on two career strong team performance to records this weekend. claw their way into the CCHA 
He needs one short-handed playoffs. But it won't come goal to tie the all-time Notre easy. Dame record, and will break "We know we need to win the career games played both games," said Dolder. record if he appears in both "The guys know this could be ­contests against Bowling it." 
Does your business need an 

Like ­
":;if>(lrt 
, 
staying up 

in today's e-marketplace? 
late? 
Like

Put your business on the web quick and easy with 
sports?

Steamtunnels.net ! 
Wanta 

Get noticed by millions of 
job?

potential customers with web aduertising on 
Call Sports

Ste amt unne Is.net, 
at 1-4543

today's most succes~ful online college magazine. 

uNrVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 

.,...-.-------------------------------------------------­
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, February 9, 2001 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Belles looking for a win in final home game of season 

By KATIE McVOY 
Assistant Sports Editor 
There will be some serious traveling going on this Saturday at Angela Athletic facility during the Saint Mary's basketball game. 
The traveling, however, will not be tak­ing place on the court. As the Belles make ready to play their final regular season game at home, two plane tickets will be raffied off to fans attending the game. 
The Belles, who are looking to improve their MIAA rankings, are hoping that the Comets of Olivet fall. 
Saint Mary's (7-14, 1-10 in the MIAA) is hoping to use the drive from an aggressive game against Hope on Wednesday to cata­pult the team to a victory over an Olivet team (13-8, 5-6 in the MIM) that stands in 5th place in the MLAA. 
"I think they realize how well we can play if we work together and give it 100 percent," Smith said. "We're excited to go play." 
"[The win] brought us up a lot," fresh­man guard Katie Miller. "We were down and now, since we played so well against Hope, it's helped our spirits a lot. We're looking forward to playing Saturday." 
With only three games left to play, it's crunch time. Although all MIAA teams are guaranteed a slot in the playoffs, a team's record plays an important part in the team's seed. Smith is looking for a win Saturday to get her team a better seed. 
"We came out and played so well on Wednesday and we need this victory to get us back on track," Smith said. 
The last time these two teams met. the 
Comets came away victorious. The Belles 
are looking to update the record books this week. Post player Kristen Matha only played for 12 minutes at Upton Gymnasium during the Belles last game against Olivet. 
Matha is still questionable for play Saturday. She is still suffering from a con­cussion received during last Saturday's game against Calvin. In addjtion, the Belles may be missing starting post player Anne Blair. Blair sat out Thursday's practice due to a sore knee. Smith will be starting Kelly Roberts again and pulling Matha off the bench, but the rest of the starting line-up is still undecided. 
"We'll definitely go with Kelly Saturday," she said. "The rest of the line-up I'll have to decide after practice tomorrow." 
Saint Mary's has been working on aggressive play both offensively and defen­sively. Wednesday's game showed marked improvement in ball handling and defense, as the Belles held Hope to only 62 points, 10 points lower than its average. The Belles will need that defense to keep Olivet below its 70 point per game average. 
"Defensively we'll be working on shutting 
down the post players," Smith said. 
"Olivet' s leading scorer is a post player and 
we want to shut her down." 
Saint Mary's will be looking at a tough 
CJlivet zone defense on Saturday. 
"We've been working on our zone 
offense," Smith said. "They play full court." 
"We're gonna attack their zone," Miller 
added. 
Saturday's home crowd may also play an 
important role in a victory. 
"We're excited to pay lat home] again," 
Smith said. "We hope to see a big crowd 
and send Julie off on a good note." 
Senior guard Julie Norman will be play­
ing the last home game of her college 
career this Saturday. 
• 

Matthew West In Concert 
Matthew is a22 vear old nauona11v published singer and songwriter. He loves engaging his audiences through his music, and he trulv 
A

reels at home on stage, nutting all 
V 

of himself into each show. 
Come and see him play! Saturday, February 10th at Reeker's Show starts at 10:00pm Free Admission 
-
You don't want to miss this show! 
The first 100 students receive a $2.00 off couf>On for Reeker's and free Valentine's candy for alll 

Friday, February 9, 2001 

The Observer . TODAY page 23 
-
TYLER

FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 



Fox TROT 

THE BEST PART WAS NICOLE? DID YOU WHEN MR. Vl'VONA J'UST HEAR YUP. COULDN'T FIGURE OUT A CLICk'tN(; SAME AS WHY EVERYONE WAS SOUND? LAST 
LAUGHINGn / AT HtS-wEEK.
\ 

BILL AMEND 
THAT OOESt4'T 

C'MON! LITTLE MEAN BROTHERS WIRETAP! TRA01T1ONALLY / 
SUG THEIR IJ. 
SISTERS! 
\ 
.... 
CROSSWORD 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 14 Opines 18 British prep school 22 1944 battle site 23 What shifty . 
eyes do 24 Farming major 25 Earty times 26 Bums and AJlen, 
e.g. 27 Jacob's first wife 29 Diminish 
estate 31 'What now?!" 
pioneer 
61 Ticket stub, sometimes 62 Hardly a person for all seasons 
DOWN 
1 Answer that's an example of itself 
2 Belafonte song opener 
3 One of Chekhov's Three Sisters 
4 Sloop slip 5 Howe'er 6 Breadwinner 7 Cook's 
exhortation 8 Watchdog org.? 9 WWW address 
1 0 Sparrow's spot 
11 Bows 
12 Actress Tumer 

PuzzJe by Nancy Salomon and Harvey Ella 
ACROSS 
1 Not a part of from the start 8 Extra 15 "South Pacific" song 16 Like some shares 17 Exclamatory actor? 19 Surf sound 20 Naldi of the Ziegfeld Follies 21 Makes a switch 22 Big-chinned chinner 23 Sot's woe 24 Comparatively plenty 28 L.A. Clippers are in it 30 Physique, informally 
33 Mawkish 34 Kind of diet 37 Exclamatory 
best-selling author? 39 Owing money 40 Love lots 41 Suffix with count 42 Mousehawk 43 Hot 44 Old New Yorker cartoonist Hoff 46 Furry "Star Wars" creature 48 Utter 51 Old-time oath 52 Become unhinged 56 Exclamatory basketball star? 59 Hex halters 60 Coach Joe of Penn State 


34 Garbage barge 35 Like a 
moonscape 36 Bro 38 Like plow 
horses 43 Goodson's game show 
partner 44 Bob, for one 45 Red Sea nation 47 Aristophanes 
comedy, with "The" 48 Pillow cover 

49 Voluminous volume 50 Homecoming guest 51 Petrol brand 52 Lot 53 Benchmark 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Geena Davis, Ga­brielle Carteris, Richie Havens, Placido Domingo, Hakeem Ola­juwon, Emma Bunton 
Happy Birthday: You will be a powerhouse this year -stead• fast, loyal and a bit aggressive toward just about everylliing you do. You will find it easy to handle any problems that come your way. With your free-spirited adventurous attitude, you will be hard to deny and harder to resist. You will be highly competitive and willing to stand up for your beliefs. Your numbers: 8, 13, 25, 29,33,45 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You can make money, but can you hold on to it? Temptations will keep you cash poor. Talking to someone in your family who has been up and down the fi­nancial ladder will be valuable. 
0000 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You need to get out with interest­ing people. You may be feeling unsettled if your emotional part­ner hasn't had too much time for you lately. Get out and get busy. 
000 GEMINI (May 21-June 20): 
You may not be completely hon• 
54 "_ and the 
est with yourself regarding your
King• (Foster 
emotional interests. Don't be too 
film) 
quick to make decisions that will limit you. 00
55 Lowly laborer 
CANCER (June 21-July 22}: 
Keep your feelings to yourself.
57 Giant of old 
You should be making prepara­tions for upcoming events. Don't
58From_Z 
hesitate to have close friends stay with yo~ for a while. Don't hide 
your teetings. 000 LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Some­
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
are availabfe by touch-tone phone: 
one you thought you rould trust
1 ·900-420-5656 (95C per minute). 
may not be aole to keep a secret. 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 
Your superstitions may get the 
better ofyouifyou dcn'tput things years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
EUGENIA LAS1 
in perspective. Get involved in volunteer work. 00000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
You will meet romantic mates throudt work or business associ­ates. tle careful not to be too accommodating. You may let some important information out of the bag. 000 
L1BRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): 
Communications will be your 
strength today. Your persistent, 
persuasive manner will help you 
persuade others to join your 
cause. Combine travel, education 
and entertainment. 0000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
Mix business with pleasure. Go 
out with peers or clients. Don't be 
afraid to mention your profes­
sional goals. You may receive a 
good job offer. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 
21): Arguments will lead to phys­
ical injury. Do not take criticism 
personally. Your financial situa­
tion will suffer if you expand 
your interests too quickly. 00 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can expect delays or problems with shipments, operat­ing equipment or mail. It is wise not to do too much traveling about. Work on projects that require a lot of precision. Don't get frustrated. Take your time and do your job properly. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Youngsters will surprise you today. You can help them their projects and learn quite a bit about them at the same time. Be ready to accept any changes that 
occur.0000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your irritability may drive your family crazy today. Try not to nag or pick on others because you aren't happy with yourself. Con­centrate on fitness, and you'll feel a lot better. 00 

Birthday Baby: You are powerful, insightful and full of enthusiasm. You have confidence as well as the spunk to venture into unknown territory. Because you are a thinker and a doei;. you will exoeL 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at utroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, utromate.com.) 
C 2001 Universal Presa Syndicate
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 


Going abroad 

Both Notre Dame track teams are heading to the Windsor Team Challenge held in Canada. Irish coaches are using this meet as a final tuneup for next week's Big East Championship. 
page 17 

f""'\lHE 
page 24 

vnSERVER 
Friday, February 9, 200 I 





Zorich unplugged 
The Observer catches up with former Notre Dame All-American defensive tackle Chris Zorich 

Observer File Photo Defensive tackle Chris Zorich celebrates after a play during his Notre Dame career. Zorich was named All-American from 1988-1990 and played in the NFL. 
By PETYON BERG Sports Writer 
Former Notre Dame football defensive lineman Chris Zorich's aggressive, relent­less playing style struck fear into the hearts of opponents from 1987-1990. 
The three-time All American and 1990 captain's impressive resume includes a national championship ring, a Lombardi trophy, and the NFL Man of the Year award. 
In an age where athletes routinely find themselves in trouble with the law, Zorich 
instead chose to use "/ personally don't think ability to lead and 
his notoriety and finan­motivate? ' 
we should have been in 
cial success to serve the community the BCS Bowl..• 
A: Actually, I had the 

through the 
wonderful opportunity Christopher Zorich Chris Zorich to go down there for a Foundation. He cur-couple games this year. 
rently attends Notre on Notre Dame's Fiesta Bowl bid 
Dame Law School, and recently sat down with fellow classmate and Observer college football analyst Peyton Berg. 
Q: You participated in some of Notre Dame's biggest games such as the 31-30 victory over top-ranked Miami. What was your biggest victory? 
A: I don't watch the old games much, but the things I remember are situations in games more than the final score. I remember the fights against Miami and USC. I remember the first game I started against Michigan in 1988. I was a 265­pound sophomore going up against first-team All American center John Ritali. 
I went offside about three times, but got eleven tackles. I remember thinking 'wow, this is fun!' It was a real turning point for me as an athlete. It was the first time that I ever had a chance to play in front of so many people. · The pep rally, sleeping in the hotel the night before, the whole experience for me was awesome. If you talk to players, they'll talk about the situations more than the games. 
Q: Lou Holtz has worked miracles at South Carolina. Can you describe for us his 
As a player, being in 
that environment, and 

as a spectator, it's two totally different things. You can change his hat and change "ND" to "USC," but he says the same stuff and talks about the same things. 
We were laughing because he was telling them the exact same stuff he told us fifteen years ago. But, it works. Those guys believe in him. Having Tony Rice and me come down there and hang out with them, they know that we won a national championship because we listened to them. They're saying, hey, if we listen to this crazy, short, lispy guy, he'll take us to 
see ZORICH/pagel4 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Notre Dame wary of West Virginia crowd 
up his fifth and final foul. 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 

Notre Dame (15-5, 7-2 Big
Associate Sports Editor 

East) also brings out West Virginia's best in terms of 
The Irish always bring out 

effort and fan support.
the best -or the worst -in "I think they've been averag­their opponents. 

ing about four or five thousand They brought out the worst [fans) per game," Irish guard
in the Mountaineers the last David Graves said of West 

time they faced West Virginia. 

Virginia (13-7, 4-5). "They'reIn a Jan. 21 Joyce Center con­
sold out -14,000 -for our 
test, the Mountaineers commit­

game. I think it has a lot to do ted several technical fouls, and with what happened previous-center Chris Moss spit at an Irish cheerleader after picking 
see BASKETBALUpage 20 

MEN'S TENNIS 
Tough weekend ahead for Irish 
amount of conditioning last 
By RACHAEL BIBER 
week, because this is probably
Sports Writer 

the longest stretch we're going to have without a match." With nearly two weeks of rest Notre Dame, which jumped now over, the 30th-ranked Irish three spots in the rankings this 
men's tennis team is all  week,  will  be  
geared up for the begin­ning of a crucial homes­tand starting this week­ See Also "Irish take on top- presented with a big challenge against Duke on  
end with matchups against fifth-ranked Duke and Iowa.  ranked players in weekend tourney."  Saturday. The Blue Devils opened the 2001  
"Practice has been going pretty well." Notre Dame head coach Bob  page 18  season with a dominating win over 65th­ 

Bayliss said. "The guys have ranked William and Mary ·on worked hard. We did a fair Wednesday, proving they are 
not short of weapons in their lineup, which consists of four singles players ranked in the nation's top 75, including Marko Cerenko at No. 2 and Ramsey Smith at No. 11. 
Duke sent a strong contingent to the Rolex National Indoor Championships last weekend, which is one of the four pre­miere events of the collegiate season. 
Smith advanced to the semifi­nals of the singles bracket before falling to eventual cham­pion Alex Kim of Stanford, 
see TENNIS/page 18 
Track and Field\t6~.. vs. Virginia Tech vs. Olivet 

., ,, Today, 4 p.m. at Windsor Invitational SMC ;i,{fi ··. Saturday, 3 p.m.
SPORTS 
Saturday, 10 a.m. 
ATA 

"" 
vs. Bowling Green vs. Duke M; at West Virginia -~ Today, 7:05 p.m. ~ Saturday, noon Sunday, 2 p.m. 
GLANCE ---~ ~ 









