
ND squirrels rank well in cyberspace
SCATTERED 
Wednesday
T-STORMS 
Their popularity spans beyond the Bend and onto the Web. How can we 
SEPTEMBER 19, 
get to better know this growing population of Domers? 
HIGH 71° 
Scene . page 14-15 
2001
LOWS6° 


The Independent Newspaper S_erving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
-
VOL XXXV NO. 17 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Researchers search for skin cancer cure 
• Wiest and team synthesize cancer­curing enzyme 
By HELENA PAYNE 
Assistant News Editor 
A team of researchers headed by Notre Dame professor Olaf Wiest are trying to synthesize an artificial enzyme that could repair sun-damaged DNA that causes some skin cancers. 
"This is basic research that is all about trying to understand how this works and maybe -and this is a big maybe -making this more useful down the road," Wiest said. 
Wiest and his team of researchers have been attempting to build a molecule to mimic the enzyme that r~pairs damage. 
The enzyme \Viest is attempting to synthesize is found in many dif­ferent organisms in all three bio­logical kingdoms. But although E­coli and the South American pos­sum have the enzyme, humans do not. 
"It's pretty clear at this point that humans don't have it," said Wiest. "If humans don't have a 'maybe' we can make something to replace it." 
The research to synthesize the enzyme is based at the University's Walther Cancer Research Center, but Wiest works with people within and outside of the U.S. 
"We're just one of the labs that are working on the chemical aspect of this, but there are people from all over the place." said Wiest. 
Other countries with teams con­ducting similar research include Vietnam, Germany and France. 
So far, Wiest's group has come out with a molecule that could work with the skin, which he said is a very simple system. Thus, he said he hopes to use the smaller system that his group has created to build a larger system. 
"Our understanding on how the thing actually works is probably correct," Wiest said. "You work your way up until you come up with a biological system as close as possible." 
Wiest directs the group, which currently includes four post doc­torates of research, eight graduate students and two undergraduate students. 
Dr. Rudy Navari, director of the Walther Cancer Research Center said that the skin research should promote awareness among people in the U.S. about the dangers of skin cancer. 
Navari, an oncologist for 20 years has seen several cancer cases and said many societal activ­ities, such as tanning, has allowed 
see CANCER/page 4 

Discussion follows U.S. attacks
I 
By MARY CAMPE 
News Writer 
Three Saint Mary's professors dis­cussed the political ramifications, the religious connotations and the media coverage of the Sept. 11 attacks on New York and Washington in a panel on Tuesday. 
Communications professor Linda Berdayes focused on the media and how it portrays the events. She gave an overview of her reaction to what happened and her opinion of the media's coverage. 
"I found myself repelled and obsessed with the media," Berdayes said. 
Berdayes explained how the media has selected and influenced the pub­lic's image of what happened. She also expressed her concern for the responsibilities that the media has and whether it has fulfilled those throughout the coverage of last 
week's events. 
Political science professor Marc Belanger spoke on behalf of a politi­cal standpoint. He explained how the U.S. should view the attacks and the attackers. Belanger tried to 
------se_e_T_E_RR_O_R_IS-M--,-/p_a_g_e_4 
College celebrates Hispanic heritage 
By LETY VERDUZCO 
News Writer 
Hispanic heritage month, sponsored by the Office of Multicultural Affairs, LONI and the student diversity board, began Monday at Saint Mary's. 
The month, designed to call attention to Hispanic heritage through a series of cultural events. has a series of events scheduled through Oct. 15. 
"The purpose of Hispanic Heritage month is to educate everyone of every nationality about all of the different cul­tures of Latin America," said La Fuerza president Regina 
Diaz. 
Students and faculty enjoyed poetry reading, singing, music and food while mingling with each other during yesterday's event opener. A full schedule had already been made for the month, including brown bag discussions led by Saint Mary's faculty members Mark Belanger and Richard Yanez. 
This month students will be able to take meringue lessons and experience food from many different Hispanic cultures. Emmy Award-winning journalist Sandra Guzman will also be speaking Sept. 26 to students and faculty about her experi­ences and the Latino role in America. There will be two movies shown during the month, "Crazy/Beautiful" and "Girlfight." 
"Hispanic Heritage month is important because it makes people aware of the cultural diversities that exist among all Hispanics," said La Fuer.la secretary Rocio Estrada. 
Contact Lety Verduzco at verd8852@saintmarys.edu. 

religious and political ramifications of last week's terrorist attacks. 
Wednesday, September 19, 2001 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
. Workshop: "Do labor . Lecture: "The political . Booksigning: "Heart . Scholars Series: "From
We have won 
What is our human nature? Is it to inher­ently destroy the people around us, flagrantly disregarding any individual but ourselves? Or is it a spirit of compassion, to reach out to our fellow man and ask three of the most striking words in the English language, "Can I help"? 
Last week's horrific events brought exam­ples of both sides of our humanity. It is difficult for many of us to imagine the absolute hatred in the minds and hearts of those responsible for the devastation of the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. To commit to a cause so evil and malevolent is beyond our wildest dreams, or, more appropriately, nightmares. 
However, what has risen from this atrocity is far greater that the hardened hearts that harbored the iniquity we have recently wit­nessed. The United States, so long considered dormant in matters of nationalism, has become visibly united. We are once again America-the free, the brave and the proud. A nation shaken. but not shattered, we have not only asked if we can help, but stepped up and asked how we can help. 
We gave a part of our vitality to the many blood banks across the nation. We sent our dollars for relief efforts in New York and Washington, D.C. We looked to our firemen and policemen, the tireless heroes working to save those who would otherwise be strangers. We bowed our heads in prayer, lighting can­dles and asking our God to console those who are mourning. We at Notre Da1ne and Saint Mary's filled the Grotto with light and prayers. We proudly raised American flags in front of our homes-a quiet, powerful reminder of the solidarity of our nation. 
These actions are not merely a demonstra­tion of human nature-they are an expression of the American spirit. We have banned together with the strength of patriotism and brotherhood that cannot be found in any other country. On Tuesday morning our own problems became insignificant. Why? Because something horrible happened to our own-and we took it personally. We do not merely empathize with those directly affected by this violent incident-we become them. We are the rescuers, the donors and humanitari­ans and we refuse to let adversity stand in our way. 
A part of our nation has fallen, but we will emerge from the rubble victorious. Regardless of any military action we may see in the near future, we have won. We have a human nature brimming with compassion and goodwill that has emerged unscathed, despite a horrific attempt to destroy it. Our nature is what makes us free. It is what makes us American. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Jackie Browderat: JBrowder@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS/CLARI FlCATIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of che Associaced Press. All reproduccion rights are reserved. 
. . . 'I . . 
unions reduce business  geography of the  Stoppers and Hail Marys"  page to stage" by Actors of  
investments?" Room 203  Columbine crisis"  Ted Mandell, 86 Notre  the London stage, audito­ 
O'Shaughnessy Hall, 3 ­ Alejandro Reyes, Kellogg  Dame professor of film  rium of the Hesburgh  
4:15 p.m.  Institute, C-103 Hesburgh  and video production,  Center for international  
Center, 4:15 p.m.  Hammes bookstore. 2-4  studies, 10 a.m.  
p.m.  

Compiled from U-Wire reports
BEYOND CAMPUS 
Middle Eastern U Conn. students leave campus 
STORRS, Conn. 
Two University of Connecticut students of Middle Eastern descent have decided to leave UConn and return to their home countries after encountering harassment in the aftermath of last Tuesday's terrorist attacks. 
The students, Rashed Alvaabi, a fifth-semester mechanical engi­neering major, and lbraheem Almansouri, a student who just 

of the people in class; all of the people just look at me," he said. "I can't go anywhere I stayed at my home for four days." 
Alvaabi said aside from the pres­sure from his family, a major fac­tor in his decision to leave the country was a physics class he attended last Thursday in which students used derogatory language about people of Islamic descent. 
Alvaabi said his professor asked 
arrived at UConn to study English, "My family has called me every the class what they thought about decided to return to their native day [since the terrorist attacks]." Islamic people, and approximately country, the United Ar ab Almansouri said. "Every day." five people responded: "We hate Emirates, mainly because of pres­Since Tuesday's attack on New the Islamic people." sure from their families .. York City and Washington, D.C., Alvaabi said the professor told 
The families of both men feared Almansouri said he noticed a dras­these students that they should not for their safety after hearing tic change in the way people treat­have said that and the discussion reports of violence against ed him. of Islamic people did not continue. Muslims across the United States. "I can't stay in the U.S. because 
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SAN JOSE 
San Jose alum flew UA flight 93 
Carol Heiderich said is the most memorable about her brother, Jason Dahl, was "how much he's loved by people and how he loved people." In his mother's liv­ing room, flowers from loved ones surround his pic­ture. "He was a wonderful son. He looked out for everybody," said Mildred Dahl, his mother. Capt. Jason Dahl. an alumnus of San Jose State University, was the pilot of United Airlines Flight 93 that crashed in rural Pennsylvania last Tuesday. Those close to him say they believe he was the reason why the terrorists' plans of crashing into a more populated area did not succeed. "There were no angels there, he did it all," said Tom Leonard, Dahl's aviation professor at SJSU. "Anything that could've been done, he did ... he did an admirable thing." "He had a difficult decision," said Dahl's broth­er-in-law, Bill Heiderich. "He would've said 'you will not get my plane."' 
UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS ·AT WACO 
Bush's approval rating soars 
One of the points of contention during the November 2000 presidential elections was whether George W. Bush had the experience necessary to deal effectively with foreign relations. The terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, coming just nine months into his presidency, have given him a trial-by-fire chance to answer that ques­tion. A poll of 1,032 people taken Sept. 14 and 15 by the Gallup Organization shows that Bush's job approval rating has risen by 35 percent since the attacks: The Gallup Web site said the jump from 51­percent approval to 86 percent in a week's time was "faster than any comparable 'rally' event in Gallup polling history." But while almost nine out of 10 Americans may approve of Bush's actions during the aftermath of the attack, Dr. James M. SoRelle, chair­man of the history department, said he believed it was too soon form a judgement. ''Ile's done kind of a pub­lic-relations handling appearing presidential, taking charge which he has to do," SoRelle said. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, Sept. 19. 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
AccuWeather"'forecast for daytime conditions and high temperntures 
Os 
Thursday
! 
i 
Friday l 
§..aturd :y '* ~ 
FRONTS: 

e e
1S1..i'iiija ~f 
•• •e •
t:..,..,,.. ,;,;,·. COLD WARM STATIONARY
c 2001 AccuWeather, lac,
fyion 
,~• . --~,.,,, 
Hlgh low Showers Raln T-storms Flurriaa Snow lee 'ia Asaoalll9d Pr9sa 

Atlanta 81 66 Las Vegas 97 72 Portland 73 51 Baltimore 78 62 Memphis 81 62 Sacramento 87 55 Boston 68 56 Milwaukee 67 56 St Louis 76 58 Chicago 69 57 New York 76 60 Tampa 85 71 Showers T-storms Rain Fli:rrles ;J;.;:;, Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Houston 88 74 Philadelphia 80 62 Washington DC 79 65 
8,~-~QQ.Q (f ~ ~ 
. . . . 
" . ' . . ' . 
Wednesday, September 19, 2001 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page3 
Town hall meeting incorporates student concerns 
By ERIN LaRUFFA 
Associate News Editor 
Drawing a group of 17 students, the office of the student body president held its first town hall meeting Tuesday night to iliscuss fresh­-man orientation and football ticket distribu­
tion. 
The office of the president will be holding 
similar meetings throughout the year to seek 
input from students. 
"We know we were elected to represent the 
student body, and it's hard to know what each 
individual is thinking," said student body presi­
dent Brooke Norton. ''We really wanted to 
have feedback from students." 
One student in the audience, Susan 
Palladino, suggested incorporating a service 
activity into freshman orientation. 
"It's a non-threatening way for students to 
get together," she said. As an example, 
Palladino said a brother and sister dorm could 
do a three-hour service project during orienta­
tion weekend. 
Student government is currently looking into incorporating service into freshman orienta­tion, according to Norton. 
Junior Andrew Deberry suggested freshmen might prefer events that involved actually talk­ing to other freshmen, instead ofquickly meet­ing multiple people. 
Other members of the audience expressed concern that many activities involve an entire male dorm and an entire female dorm doing something together. Male dorms should also plan events with other male dorms, and female dorms with other female dorms, according to senior Tyler Jackson. He explained that the way orientation is currently set up, students only meet students of the same gender who live in their dorm. 
"I don't think you get the friendships you could get," Jackson said. 
Sophomore Kevin Wolf said the problems with freshman orientation could stem from each dorm planning its own events indepen­dently. 
"It depends so much on what your dorm ori­
entation commissioner and your rector decide 
on," he said, added that freshmen in different 
dorms are "on unequal ground" as a result. 
Students at the town hall meeting also dis­
cussed possible changes to football ticket distri­
bution. 
'1'his is the fourth year in a row that some­thing different has been done," said student body vice president Brian Moscona. He added that so far, feedback about this year's distribu­tion system has been positive. 
Many students have expressed an interest in general admission seating, said Norton, but she added that the University's risk manage­ment attorneys say that everyone must have an assigned seat. 
While assigned seating is not debatable, the payment plans for the tickets could change. The audience unanimously endorsed the idea ofpaying for tickets on their student accounts. 
Students also said it was a hassle for them to organize their friends to get a lottery number on one day, and then to purchase the tickets on another day. 
Fitzmaurice suggested changing the system so that those students who wanted to sit together did not have to get consecutive lottery numbers. Instead, each student in a group could get an individual number, and the per­son in the group with the highest lottery mun­her could purchase the tickets for the rest of the group. 
That system might be better, according to Wolf, especially considering that most students care primarily about sitting with their friends. 
Furthermore, it was particularly difficult to purchase tickets on a day when class was in session, according to Palladino. 
"I think it was a lot ofjuggling. For fresh­men, it must have been mind boggling," she said. "It's ridiculous to have to skip a class or show up late because you're picking up foot­ball tickets." 
She suggested having students pick up their tickets on a Saturday, although Norton said the ticket office prefers each class to have its own separate pick up day. 
Contact Erin LaRuffa at laruffa.l@nd.edu. 

THE 
LSTREET 
BK@ 11:53am (C)Yahoo!36.75r-r----,----,---,--.......---.--,  FORU  
36.50 36.25 36.00  t··-··-····---·-·  An excellent way to learn about opportunities on Wall Street! ! !  
35.75 .____.__,___.....___...........,  Wednesday, September 19, 2001  
8-Sep  10am  12pm  2pm  4pm  Mendoza College of Business, Jordan Auditorium  
Students of ALL majors, degrees, colleges, and years  
•5:00pm ­ 7:00pm Presentations:  
DomesJjc Asset Allocation Process  
Global Asset Allocation Process  
Anatomy ofan Initial Public Offering  
Mergers & Acquisitions  
A Public Debt Deal  
A Highly-Leveraged Private Equity Deal  
•7:00 ­ 7:30 Pizza  

•Sponsored by the Mendoza College of Business •7:30 -9:00 Individual Company Breakouts and The Career Center 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 19, 2001 

Smith wins off-campus senate seat 
By MOLLY HERBE 
News Writer 
Senior Turtle Creek resident Matthew Sinith will be the new off­campus senator for the 2001-2002 school year, pulling in 56 percent of the vote over Tammy Lin in Tuesday's election. 
Smith campaigned on several issues such as making the off-cam­pus emironment more safe and the organization of University-funded 
Terrorism 
continued from page 1 
explain to the audience the different views and opinions of terrorism. "One person's terrorist is another person's freedom fighter," Belanger said. 
Belanger said the U.S. must be patient with its decision on retaliating against these attacks. He believes the United States must understand their enemy and how the enemy views the United States. 
"We (United States) are not very patient with our deci­sions," he said referring to the decision to go to war. "Politics is a world where short, quick solutions and 
answers will not solve anything. Any political, violent actions are going to put us in a worse situa­tion." 
John Incandela of the Religious Studies Department closed the discussion. He shared different quotes and resources to identify different religious and political views of the attacks. 
"I am overwhelmed with the religious dimensions of this act,.. Incandela said. "This is an asym­metrical war not against a known country or soldiers in identifiable uniforms." 
He went on to say that the United States must first review the act before so quickly reacting to it. 
Students, faculty and members of the community all attended providing questions and discus­sions following the comments given by the panel. Many atten­dants voiced concerns of what 
• 
off-campus events. Also, Smith expressed desire for more off-cam­pus accessibility to information about events on campus. 
According to his platform, one solution may be an off-campus list serve to pass on such information. Smith would like to work towards a proposal to help eradicate any trans­portation problems between the main student apartment complexes and campus, and vice versa. He sug­gested the establishment of a shuttle to run from campus to the apart­
www.,n.com/flp ) 
The Future 
is ;a Pil;ace. 

As the global telecommunications industry grows, so does the level and intensity of competition. At AT&T, we build on our achievements and seize new opportunities worldwide by relying on our employees. We believe that tenacity in the face of fierce competition and dedication to winning are among the key attributes required for success. That is why our people are our major competitive advantage for the future. 
For more information. please visit our website at www.att.com/fip 
AT&T wants you to build your capabiliti<!s and grow with us. We are committed to your development by offering state-of-the-art technology and immense resources to fuel your growth as weU as generous salaries and benefits. 
they should do and what other ways America can handle this situation, as well as comments regarding the media. 
"I think this [panel] was a good start for us to work out or own reactions and questions," said sophomore Kristen Carrigan. 
Justice Education chair Jan Pilarski helped organize this panel to help members of the Saint Mary's commu­nity deal with their questions and emotional stresses dealing with the attacks. She hopes that this panel and discussion helped people come together and better deal with their emotions surrounding the event. 
"This is only the first step for people to broaden what they know and feel about what happened," said Pilarski. 
The Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership, the 
Contact Mary Campe at camp9575@saintmarys.edu. 
OPPORTIJNlTY lN NEW JERSEY 
HNANCIAL l.EADEHSIIIP 
PROGRAM Designed to provide participants with the opportunity for development and growth of technical and management/leadership competencies in an accelerated fashion through diverse job rotations and hands-on 
classroom training through a two and a half year curriculum. Participants develop critical skills in several financial disciplines and receive leadership and personal effectiveness training which is maximized through the application of AT&rs dynamic and changing business and participation in team projects and individual job rotations. Seize this opportunity to learn from AT&T executives through "Leadership Insight Dialogues· and become a future leader of the Finance Organization and ultimately AT&T. 
It's all within your reach. 
ment complexes throughout the day. 
"I am excited that I will be able to witness the machinery of Notre Dame working. I hope I am able to contribute something positive," said Smith. 
Despite the availability of online voting via email, only 103 students voted in Monday's election. Seventy­two students voted in the primary elections that were held last week. 
Contact Molly Herbe at mherbe@nd.edu. 
Saint Anthony Claret, Claretians pursue a mission to the poor, the disadvantaged, and the oppressed in 58 nations around the world. Besides promoting peace and justice in collaboration with other people, Claretians explore the world of the spirit in community with each other. Perhaps you'd like to join our expedition. Meet us and let us meet you. Find our how we are sustained by our rich prayer life, vibrant community, and challenging ministries. 
Write:  Father Carl Quebedeaux, C.M.F.  
Room 2122, 205 W. Monroe St., Chicago, IL 60606  
Call:  800-328-6515  ·  E-mail:  frcarl22g@claret.org  
Visit:  www.claretianvocations.org  


Cancer 
continued from page 1 
the sun to cause a great deal of damage to the skin. 
"The rate of increase in skin cancer is higher than any other rate we've seen," said Navari. "This kind of work will raise a level of awareness that there are risks out there." 
In the center, there are various cancer research pro­jects that scientists are conducting simultaneously, but Navari coordinates the projects and looks for areas of funding. 
Since Wiest's project is one of many at the Center. Navari said that scientists are conducting a lot more research on campus than one would believe. 
"If people think about the science that is going on at Notre Dame, they wouldn't necessarily think that Notre Dame is working on cancer research, but in fact we are. Five years ago, we weren't," said Navari. 
Wiest came to Notre Dame in 1995 and has been researching ways to combat skin cancer since that time. 
His project is still in its early stages, but Wiest said the progress is promising. 
"Of course, people ask, 'When are you going to be on the market with the drug?"' Wiest said. "It's absolutely impossible to say when that is going on [the market]." 
In the next stage of the project, Wiest and others will make a real piece of DNA with the sun damage to arrive closer to something that can be used in the human body. 
"This is what science is all about," said Wiest. "You answer one question, you get two more." 
Contact Helena Payne at Payne.30@nd.edu. 
.ITH A MISSION 
On the· trail to adventure 
IT COULD BE an inner-city alley or a jolting jungle road to a remote village. Claretian priests and brothers travel anywhere to bring the love of Jesus to the pe5>ple who need it most. Following the tradition established by our founder, 

Dean Vincent Rougeau Associate Dean for Academic Affairs Notre Dame Law School Thursday, September 20 
4:00 p.m. -5:30 p.m. 102 DeBartolo Hall 
Sponsored by the Pre-Law Society 

----· . ------­

ATION 
Wednesday, September 19, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Afgan refugees land in Austrailia: 
After three weeks at sea. about 100 Afghan asylum seekers left an Australian navy ship Wednesday and were taken to a camp on the tiny Pacific island state of Nauru. The Afghan refugees were among those saved from a sinking Indonesian ferry by a Norwegian freighter in late August. 
Annual U.N. meeting postponed: 
The U.N. General Assembly will postpone its annual gathering of world leaders scheduled to begin next week because of last week's terrorist attacks. the assembly president said Tuesday. The delay will mark the first time in the 56-year history of the United Nations that the General Assembly post­poned the high-level round of speech-mak­ing. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
First wave of guardsmen activated: 
The Pentagon began activating thousands of National Guard and Reserve troops across the nation, as military commanders briefed President Bush on plans for the mobilization he called "a strong symbol of this nation's resolve." Mr. Bush authorized last Friday as many as 50,000 guardsmen and reservists. The Pentagon has said it will initially need up to 35,500 of those troops: 13,000 for the Air Force, 10,000 for the Army, 7,500 for the Marine Corps, 3,000 for the Navy and 2,000 for the Coast Guard. 
Rift over Rio Grande water rights: 
Mexico has warned that it will fail to meet a Sept. 30 d~adline to release millions of gallons of water it is required by treaty to provide to farmers in South Texas for irrigation. Also, Mexico will need to hold back even more water because of the prolonged drought. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Gun battle erupts in Indianapolis: 
Three young men were being held Tuesday after an eight-hour gun battle left a police officer and one of the suspected gunmen dead, authorities said. Two bystanders and a police officer also were wounded, with one of the bystanders listed in critical condition. The confrontation began on the city's north­east side Monday evening, when officers tried to pull over a car carrying four men. The driver would not stop, so police began a pursuit and gunfire erupted. 
Market Watch September 18 
Dow 
8,903.40 -17.30 
Jones 

Composite Same: 
Volume: 175 NIA 
AMEX:  837.52  -15.36  
NASDAQ:  1,555.08  -24.47  
NYSE:  538.37  -3.62  
S&P 500:  1,032.74  -6.03  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -3.07 -0.43 13.57 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +3.36 +0.37 ll.3E NASDAQ 100 INDX (QQQ) -2.24 -0.70 30.SE INTEL CORP (INTC) -0.51 -0.12 23.47 EXODUS COMM INC (EXDS) +5.45 +0.03 0.5E 

confirm that, he said. last week's terrorist held in New York. 
Associated Press 
Ashcroft announced the attacks has led to the Authorities also detained WASHINGTON creation of new rules arrest of four people as a man in San Diego, Calif., 
The FBI has detained 7 5 allowing suspected illegal material witnesses. Aided who was linked through people for questioning and aliens to be detained for by a federal grand jury, financial transactions to on immigration charges 48 hours, double the old the agency is seeking two of the 19 hijackers, and has arrested at least period. He also announced more people who may officials said. They four material witnesses in creation of an anti-terror­have information about declined to say whether he the terrorist investigation, ism task force with people the plot, law enforcement was arrested as a material Attorney General John in major cities. officials said Tuesday. witness. Ashcroft said Tuesday. He The attorney general One of the four material As U.S. law enforcement declared the government said the task force would witnesses is Albader officials pull in more peo­will "use every legal wage "a concerted nation­Alhamzi, 34, a Saudi ple for questioning, a means at our disposal" to al assault" against terror­national and Saudi-trained grand jury in White Plains, prevent further terrorsist ists. doctor who was doing a a suburb north of New attacks. The government was medical residency in radi­York, will review evidence 
"We are looking at the looking for more than 190 ology at University of and issue subpoenas in the possibility that there may people who investigators Texas Health Science attack on the World Trade have been more than four believe may have informa­Center, said one of the Center, according to a law planes targeted for hijack­tion about the attack, he government officials, enforcement source who ing," said Ashcroft. The said. speaking on condition of spoke on condition of 
FBI has not been able to The FBI investigation of anonymity. He was being anonymity. 
PAKISTAN 
Govt. closes Afghan border 
Islamabad was eclipsed by other them to rise to Afghanistan's
Associated Press 
reports of chaos on the 1,500-mile~ defense if it was attacked. ISLAMABAD long border with Afghanistan as In talks on Monday in the Afghan Pakistani officials returned hundreds of thousands of Afghan city of Kandahar, the hard-line 
tonight from Afghanistan after fled the cities in anticipation of Islamic clerics who lead the Taliban being rebuffed by the Taliban gov­American-led military strikes, had demanded "convincing evi­ernment on an American demand prompting the Pakistani govern­dence" that Mr. bin Laden was that it immediately surrender ment to close its borders against responsible for the attacks last Osama bin Laden to head off a mili­refugees. week in New York and Washington, tary showdown with the United The Pakistani government faced officials in Pakistan said. States. ominous new resistance at home to In addition, the Taliban said they 
Taliban officials are expected its pledge of ··full cooperation" with wanted the Organization of the issue their final decision on the the United States. An influential Islamic Conference, a group of American demand later this week. conservative Muslim cleric in more than 50 Muslim countries, to 
The announcement of the Pakistan today issued a decree to make a formal demand for bin Pakistani delegation's return to his numerous followers obliging Laden's handover. 
page 6 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 19, 200 I 
U2 student ticket sales begin Thursday 
the first in line. There is no reason forBy MAUREEN SMITHE students to show up before three or four
Associate News Editor 
o'clock [on Thursday]," Sassano said. Although students can buy tickets for 
Despite a delay in ticket sales triggered both the general admission standing floor 

by last week's terror­ist attacks in New York and Washington, D.C., U2 will still perform on the Notre Dame cam­pus Oct. 10 at 7:30 p.m. 
Student ticket sales, originally scheduled for last Thursday, will resume Thursday at the Joyce Center. 
Joe Sassano, Joyce Center events man­ager, said that stu­
"People shouldn't camp out now to establish themselves the first in Zin e. There is no reason for students to show up before three or four o'clock [on Thursday]." 
Joe Sassano JACC events manager 
dents should start arriving at 3 p.m. to 
receive a ticket enabling them to draw for 
Sam Derheimer contributed to this 
a position in line. Those with a ticket can 
report.
then draw a lottery number. Concert tick­ets will then go on sale to lottery ticket holders at 6 p.m. 
Contact Maureen Smithe at 
"The word 'lottery' is not the right 
word. No one loses in getting these tickets," Sassano said. "We have not limited the num­ber of tickets that we will allow students to buy." 
The two-ticket lottery system, which allows all students who arrive on time to obtain the first ticket needed to receive the ticket holding them a place in line, has gone unchanged since the original plan. 
"People shouldn't camp out now to establish themselves as and the assigned seats, Sassano said the stage will accommodate the Joyce Center's 360 degree design. 

"You can sit all around the stage and still have a great seat." he said. 
Ticket prices for the show will be $46 for gen­eral admission floor seats and $86 for assigned seats within the Joyce Center. Tickets sold during the student pre-sale and on the first day of the public sale will sell for cash only. 
smithe. l@nd.edu 
:······Lookout w i ( rJ sta( ( i o ns, ·....: •• This cowgirl is ready to PARTY! • ~ 
•
•
.
. 
•
•
. 
.
•
•
• •
•
. 
.• 
•
.•
. 
•
• 
.
. 
•• Happy Zlst Birthday Mera/! • Love, Your Girls
-················· 
················· 


UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM IN 
ATHENS, GREECE 
INFORMATION MEETING 
With Julliet Mayinja, Assistant Director International Study Programs And Returning Students 
**************************************************** 
Wednesday, Sept.19,2001 
5:00 PM 214 DeBartolo 
' 
-Great Deli (in the Schlotzsky's "tradition") :~ 
\;
\ -Fresh Fruit Smoothies 
" 
1 -Hand Dipped Ice Cream Nt';,J\ -Live Music Daily at Lunch Friday & · Saturday Night -It's Kennedy! Nt\\i\ -I 000 magazines & Best-Sellers • •1.-.,-.J\-Weekend Outdoor G_ rill -Friday & 
~~ ':-Iv Saturday Nights

f ) All Day Gamedays 
I /2 lb. Sirloin Burgers, Brats. Chops, FAX & Great Steaks PHONE 243-,114 
--:---~~-,--~---243-'.#l.72
~fs~:i~lti~i~t-'' 
Now 
·· " '<. · ·'<· r:·• · · · Hiring 
State Rd. 23 at Ironwood 
FREE LUNCHTIME DELIVERY! 
Bring a copy of this ad in for a free 32 oz drink with the purchase of any sandwich or pizza 
Notre Dame Film, Television, and Theatre presents 

Atlt)r8 ~~]'()Ill rrlit) IJ)ll(f()I} St;J~{(~ 
AMidsummer Night's Dream 

• bv William Shakespeare _ 
· Thursday, September 20 'fl.
c\ 
___,,._" Friday,S~tvo\\e _.,___ 

•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••  Playi,v O  ,,ese.ved Seats $16  
_,., >l> 14 • All Students $12  
Applicaton Deadline: Oct. 1, 2001 for Spring, 2002  
Tickets available at LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office.  
MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-81 28.  


Wednesday, September 18, 2001 
The Observer . NEWS page 7 
UNITED NATIONS 
Bush tells airlines to 
U.N. demands bin Laden 
expect financial relief 
whose per­manent mem­bers are the 
"There is one and only
United States, 
one message the Security 
Russia, China, Britain Council has for the and France, 
Taliban: Implement 
issued a 
United Nations Security 
statement · after a brief­Council resolutions ... ing on the 
immediately and
political, mili­
unconditionally.,,
tary and humanitarian situation in 
Jean-David Levitte 
Afghanistan, 
Security Council president
"including the di re conse­quences of Taliban rule for the Afghan people." 
"There is one and only one message the Security Council has for the Taliban: Implement United Nations Security Council resolutions ... immediately and uncondi­tionally." said the statement, read by France's U.N. ambas­
experience@screenb/astcam 
Watch me. Catch me. Play me. Use me anytime you like. Now there's a place where you are truly part of the action. The drama. 

Discover how to use
The music. The sci-filhorror. The comedy. Original creations from users like you. Screenblasr-experience it. 
your degree overseas! 
a--'-Ii,~ 
Information Meeting And Video 
.­
-Tues., Sept. 25, 7-9 p.m., Centerfor Social Concerns 
l!fl.a 
Visit us at the Post-Graduation Volunteer Fair! 
Wed., Sept. 26, 6 to 9 p.m.,Stepan Center 
Have you considered doingfii/1-time service overseas after 
graduation? Check us out at the Information Meeting or the 
Post-Graduation Volunteer Fair. Find out the benefits of 
Peace Corps service and how 10 apply. Ask questions of
Write for The Observer! 
;,:,-:;:•/it:. ' . '' . 
returned volunteers and recruiters while they 're on campus. look up our website:www.pe{l(:ecops.gov 
Call 1-5323. 
training camps. 
Pakistan sent a high-level delegation on Monday to tell the Taliban to either hand over bin Laden or face a pun­ishing assault from the Uniteti States, which has named the Saudi-born millionaire as the prime suspect in last week's terrorist attacks in New York 
stop pro­viding sanctuary and train­ing for interna­tional ter­rorists, take mea­sures to ensure that its territory is not used to prepare terrorist acts and move swift­ly to close all terrorist 
Vero Italiano 
Catalino', Tcattoria Downtown South Bend 
NOTRE DAME TICKETS 
Seasons Wanted Individual Games 
Preferred Tickets 
234~5650 
=========================~-_j
Seeking Applicants for Spring/Summer 2002! 

relief such as suspension of the jet fuel tax and excise tax and $5 billion in direct cash aid. 
Leo Mullin, chairman of Delta Air Lines, said financial consequences of the Sept. 11 
attacks could approach the $24 billion figure through next summer. "There is no question that this industry has suffered enormous financial damage via this terrible situa­tion," Mullin said. 
Major carriers already have announced more than 26,000 layoffs, and the industry has warned that figure could grow to 100,000 in coming weeks. Airlines such as 
American, Continental, Delta, Northwest and United have scaled back their schedules by 20 percent. 
Boeing is planning to lay off 20 to 30 percent of its com­mercial airline work force ­roughly 31,000 people -as a result of the terrorists attacks, a congressional source said Tuesday on condition of anonymity. The aircraft maker will make an announcement Wednesday, the source said. 
Neither the administration nor congressional leaders were ready to suggest a final dollar amount, or a timetable for action, although Rep. Roy Blunt. R-Mo., said the House might move forward with leg­islation this week. 
Mineta said the administra­tion hoped to come up with its own package by early next week. There's recognition, he said, that the airline industry has "got to be made whole." 
House Democratic leader Dick Gephardt of Missouri stressed that the airline relief package would be separate from the $40 billion in emer­gency spending Congress passed last week to help vic­tims of the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon and track down the perpetrators. 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS 
The U .N. Security Council said Tuesday it had one mes­s age for Afghanistan's Taliban rulers: hand over suspected terrorist Osama bin Laden and close all terrorist training camps "immediately and unconditionally." 
The 15-nation council, 
sador Jean-David Levitte, the current council president. 
The council referred to a resolution it adopted last December demanding that the Taliban turn over bin Laden to the United States or a third country for trial in the deadly bombings of two U.S. embassies in Africa in August 1998. 
That resolution also demanded that the Taliban 
and Washington. 
The Taliban's supreme 
leader, Mullah Mohammed 
Omar, turned the decision 
over to a council of Islamic 
clerics which was gathering 
in the Afghan capital of Kabul 
and was expected to discuss 
the ultimatum Wednesday. 
The Security Council froze 
Taliban assets and imposed 
an international flight ban on 
Afghanistan's Ariana airlines 
in November 1999 to pres­
sure the hard-line Islamic 
militia to turn over bin Laden. 
It added an arms embargo on 
the Taliban in January. . 
Earlier Tuesday, Afghanistan's U.N. Ambassador Ravan Farhadi, who represents the ousted government of Burhanuddin Rabbani, offered 15,000 fight­ers for any operation against bin Laden or the Taliban. 
The United States has not asked for assistance from the anti-Taliban forces, which control about 5 percent of the country in the north. 
"We have 15,000 people ready to fight. They are trained to fight the Taliban," Farhadi told a news confer­ence. 
Farhadi also claimed that Pakistan's military intelli­gence knew where bin Laden was hiding since it had trained and worked with the Taliban. 


Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Congress and the Bush administration told the nation's airlines Tuesday they can expect quick, multibillion­d o l la r relief to help them recover from last week's terrorist attacks. 
Federal help is needed, s a i d Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle because of the "extra­ordinary vulnerability that we see economically right now with all the airlines, some more than others." 
Airline executives met sepa­rately during the day with Transportation Secretary Norman Mineta, White House officials and congressional leaders. The meetings were for the industry to make a case for federal aid to help the airlines deal with mounting losses caused by the interrup­tion of flights last week and the prospects for significantly reduced business in coming months. 
The House floated a $15 bil­lion relief plan last Friday to include $2.5 billion in immedi­ate grants and $12.5 billion in loans and credits. The indus­try has asked for $24 billion. 
Michael Wascom, spokesman for the Air Transport Association, said Monday the industry request­ed $11.2 billion in loans and grants, $7.8 billion in tax 

Wednesday, September 19, 2001 
page 8 The Observer . NEWS 

U.S. contacts Sudan and Cuba for help 
render of bin Laden by the
Associated Press 
Taliban would enable that 
WASHINGTON 
In its quest for a diverse anti­terror coalition, the Bush administration said Tuesday it has made overtures to Sudan and Cuba. They're the third and fourth nations on the State Department terrorism list seen as potential sources of informa­tion in last week's attacks. · Secretary of State Colin Powell called Sudanese Foreign Minister Osman Ismail Mustafa and asked for his cooperation after taking note of Sudan's offer to play a constructive role combating terrorism. 
High-level contacts with Sudan have been extremely rare, and State Department spokesman Richard Boucher called the conversation a good beginning. 
Boucher also said a U.S. offi­cial visited Cuba's diplomatic mission in Washington and asked for whatever information Cuba might have about the ter­rorist attack. Cuba strongly con­demned the Sept. 11 disaster. 
U.S. officials said a diverse anti-terrorism coalition would be more viable politically than one limited largely to Western democracies. Powell has been reaching out to Arab and Muslim countries in recent days. 
Meanwhile, officials reacted skeptically to cond~tions that Afghanistan's ruling Taliban movement was said to be demanding in exchange for extraditing Osama bin Laden, the prime suspect in the attacks. 
The conditions include international recognition of Taliban rule and the lifting of 
U.N. 
sanctions. 

An administration official said the U.S. stance is based on two 

U.N. 
Security Council resolu­tions approved over the past two years in response to the Taliban's role in sheltering bin Laden. 


The resolutions demand that bin Laden be expelled to a coun­try where he can be brought to justice. U.S. officials hold out lit­tle hope that the Taliban will comply with that. 
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld also raised doubts Tuesday about whether the sur­
group to evade hostile actions 
by the U.S. military. 
"Clearly you begin on a jour­
ney with one step, and he ~ould 
be one step," Rumsfeld said on 
CBS' "The Early Show." But he 
said even if bin Laden were not 
protected by the Taliban, the 
radical organization he heads, 
al-Qaida, "would continue doing 
what it's been doing. So clearly 
the problem is much bigger 
than bin Laden." 
As for Pakistan, Boucher said 
there was no promise of U.S. 
assistance for that country in 
exchange for its pledge to back 
American efforts to hunt down 
those responsible for last week's 
attacks. 
"It was entered into without 
any demands, without any con­
ditions, without any quid pro 
quos," he said. 
Sen. Sam Brownback, R­.Kan.• said the United States 
should lift trade sanctions on 
Pakistan and back World Bank 
loans for economic development 
in Pakistan "so the population 
can see a positive reason to 
engage with the United States." 
Sanctions against Pakistan 
were imposed in response to its 
nuclear weapons program and 
to the October 1999 military 
coup that installed Gen. Pervez 
Musharraf as president. 
Powell received a warm 
expression of support and sym­
pathy Tuesday from South 
Korean Foreign Minister Han 
Seung-soo. President Bush had 
an evening meeting and dinner 
scheduled with French 
President Jacques Chirac, who 
was expected to reaffirm his 
forceful opposition to interna­
tional terror. 
The United States lists Cuba, 
Sudan, Syria, Libya, Iran, Iraq 
and North Korea as supporters 
or sponsors of terrorism. The 
United States has contacted 
Cuba, Sudan and Syria as part 
of its search for information on 
the attacks. 
There has been no contact 
with Iran, but the State 
Department said Saturday it 
was heartened by Tehran's 
response to the attacks an? sees 
a possible role for Iran m the 
present situation. 
Israel celebrates Jewish new year 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 
Israel marked the Jewish New Year on Tuesday, looking back on a year of fighting with the Palestinians amid new hopes that a truce might finally be taking hold. 
Many Israelis took advantage of the two-day holiday that ends at sundown Wednesday to relax with relatives at home. Jews traditionally celebrate the New Year with lavish dinners and eat apples dipped in honey, symbols of a sweet year. 
Electrician Aviad Konforty spent the holiday with his fami­ly in Tel Aviv. He said that despite Israel's current trou­bles, he was optimistic because "there is nothing else to do but think positively." 
Hotels in Israel's forested 
northern region were full as many people canceled trips to abroad because of the terrorist attacks in the United States and the tension at home, Israel radio reported.· 
For the majority in Israel that does not observe religious laws forbidding listening to the radio and watching television on holy days, Tuesday's word of an emerging truce was welcome. 
"I took my pager to the syna­gogue," Foreign Ministry official Gideon Meir said. "It didn't beep even once -that's very rare." 
Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat announced Wednesday that he ordered his forces to prevent attacks on Israelis. 
Israel responded by with­drawing tanks from Palestinian territory and promising not to carry out military strikes. 


CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL
ILHDES 
CONCERNS 
1nstituto Latinoamericano de Doctrina y Estudios Sociales 
Going to CH I LE?? 
Interested in International Seruice?? 
Read On!!!I!! 
The ILHDES seminar is a unique class offered only during the spring semester to • students abroad in Chile. It is has two parts. 
1-stimulating classroom work: eHploring issues of pouerty and deuelopment from an international perspectiue 
2-personal eHploration and h~nds-o~ learning through a weekly seru1ce proJect 
INFORMRTION MEETING: 
Wed. Sept. 19th, 4:30 at the CSC 
Any questions, contact ANNIE CAHILL at cahill.19@nd.edu or 651-7862. 
The William and Katherine Devers Pro9ram in Dante Studies 
presents: 

/}t,\\/· :;.. ·.: •:•:-:.::­
"Dante's First,1:6difor§: 
The Memoriali"~Q~~~,~~~;!;?~;'?fe,, 
Politics ofVernacn:lar .Trans·cr1pt1on 
.· \i. :(/:.::::/t>: :7::: :· _:::: i/.: -;\(" 
Department of Special Collections Hesburgh Library 

The lecture is free and open to the public. For further information contact the Devers Program in Dante Studies at (219) 63 1-5610. 

..----------------------------------------------------------------------------·
--. ­
Wednesday, Spetember 19, 2001 
The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
AFGHANISTAN 
Taliban threatens 'holy war' against America 
Associated Press 
KABUL, Afghanistan 
The hard-line Taliban said 
God would protect it if the 
world tried to "set fire" to 
Afghanistan for sheltering ter­
rorist suspect Osama bin 
Laden, and in comments 
broadcast Tuesday also called 
on all Muslims to wage holy 
war on America if it attacks. 
Hundreds of Islamic clerics were gathering in the Afghan capital to discuss conditions for extraditing bin Laden to a country other than the United States, a Pakistan government official said. The clerics are expected to meet Wednesday. s a i d Hamdullah televised address to his people on Wednesday evening. 
Before leaving Kabul, the Pakistani delegation met with eight detained aid workers being tried on charges of ille­gally preaching Christianity. the official said. Pakistan asked the Taliban to release the aid workers -two Americans, four Germans and two Australians -and the rulers promised to consider the request, he said. 
The Taliban. who say bin Laden was wrongly implicated in the Sept. 11 terror attacks on the United States, urged the people of Afghanistan to pre­pare for a jihad, or 
holy war,
Nomani, "IfAmerica attacks our 
against
the mayor homes, it is necessary for America,of Kabul 
all Muslims. especially for the official
and host of 
Bakhtar
Afghans. to wage a holy
the gather­
N e w s 
ing. war." 
Agency
The con­
reported
ditions, 
Tuesday.
Mullah Mohammed 
including 
" I f
Hasan Akhund 
interna tion­
America 
a l recogni­deputy Taliban leader 
attacks our 
tion of the Taliban government and the lifting of U. N. sanc­tions, were discussed Monday in Kandahar, headquarters of the Islamic militia that rules most of Afghanistan, the Pakistani official said on condi­tion of anonymity. 
It seemed unlikely the United States would agree to have bin Laden extradited to another 
country. A delegation sent by 
Pakistan to try to convince the Taliban to hand over bin Laden went home Tuesday without reaching an agree­ment, and Pakistani President 
PPrVP.7 Mn~h::irr::if ~PhPrln]Prl A 
homes, it is 
necessary . 
for all Muslims, especially for Afghans, to wage a holy war," Mullah Mohammed Hasan Akhund, the deputy Taliban leader, said Monday, according to state-run Radio Shariat. "God is on our side, and if the world's people try to set fire to Afghanistan, God will protect us and help us." 
Since taking control of most of Afghanistan in 1996, the Taliban have declared holy wars against the northern­based anti-Taliban alliance, Russia and Iran, but never the 
United States. "Until now, only one World 
The Taliban government is Trade Center has been only officially recognized by destroyed." demonstrators three coun-shouted in t r i e s : unison in Pakistan, "But we will destroy all English. "But S a u d i we will
ofAmerica. We will die 
Arabia and destroy all of
for Taliban. We will die 
the United America. We A r a b for Islam. We will die will die for Emirates. Taliban. We
for Osama. " 
T h e will die for Taliban's Islam. We will foreign min­Afghani demonstrators die for 
ister, Wakil A h m e d Muttawakil, condemned the violence within hours of the attacks in New York and Washington but said it would have been impossible for bin Laden to carry out the assaults. Bin Laden lacks the facilities for such an elaborate operation, he said. 
Since then, the Taliban's leader, Mullah Mohammed Omar, who has declared him­self head of all Muslims, has defended bin Laden and accused the United States of pointing the finger in his direc­tion because its investigators have been unable to come up with a real suspect. 
Many Pakistanis living along the 1,500-mile border with Afghanistan promised to join the jihad against America, and possibly their own government, if there are retaliatory strikes. 
"America is putting a gun on Pakistan's shoulder to fire at Afghanistan. The Pakistani people cannot accept this," said Haji Abdul Razzaq, a mechanic in the western city of Peshawar, near the Afghan border. 
On Tuesday, some 3,000 peo­ple in the Pakistani city of Karachi demonstrated near a mosque that runs a religious school many Taliban leaders attended, warning of more 
iattacks. Many carried posters of bin Laden portrayed as a hero. 
Molti Bene 
Catalino's Trattoria Downtown South Bend 
Osama." 
Bin Laden 
and his 
alleged network of Islamic mil­
itants are the prime suspects 
in last week's airborne 
assaults on the World Trade 
Center and the Pentagon. 
The United States believes bin Laden has played a role in a number of devastating attacks. including the 1998 bombings of two U.S. embassies in East Africa in which 231 people were killed. 
Bin Laden, who was stripped of Saudi citizenship and has been living in Afghanistan since 1996, is accused by Washington of running a global terrorist network from his bases inside the war-ruined Central Asian nation. 
The Taliban, the hard-line Islamic militia that rules according to a strict interpre­tation of the Quran, have been placed under economic sanc­tions twice by the United Nations to press earlier U.S. demand to hand over bin Laden for trial. 
The Taliban have consistent­ly refused, calling bin Laden a "guest" and saying that to hand him over to non-Muslims would betray a tenet of Islam. 
Jordan's King Abdullah recalled on Tuesday that U.S. intelligent services last year helped foil a bin Laden­planned attack on Jordan hotels during Millennium cele­brations. 
He said on "Larry King Live" 
program that as the weeks go 
on, the world will learn that 
"some of the things that he 
was up to were quite horrific 
indeed." CNN released 
excerpts of the interview prior 
to broadcast Tuesday evening. 
The U.S. Embassy in 
Islamabad said Tuesday that 
the U.S. government has 
authorized its nonessential 
embassy staff members and 
their families to evacuate 
Pakistan amid fears of possible 
violence and terrorist strikes 
against Americans. Several 
multinational companies also 
have evacuated their interna­
tional staff. 
However, the U.S. Embassy 
and its consulates in Pakistan, 
an Islamic nation of 140 mil­
lion people, were to continue 
their normal operations. 
Mean while. thousands of Afghans were fleeing the coun­try amid fears of retaliatory strikes on Afghanistan because of bin Laden's presence. 
"We are worried that hun­dreds of thousands of Afghans have left the cities and are headed for Pakistan," Riaz Mohammed Khan, a spokesman for Pakistan's Foreign Office, said. Tuesday. 
Thousands more have been gathering on islands along a river that marks much of Afghanistan's border with Tajikistan, Russian border offi­cials said Tuesday. 
At the United Nations, a rep­resen tative of the former Afghan government of Burhanuddin Rabbani, which was ousted by the Taliban, said that 15,000 fighters loyal to Rabbani were prepared to assist the United States in any operation against the Taliban. 
But the representative, A.G. Ravan Farhadi, said in New York that the United States had not asked for any help from his group based in northern Afghanistan. 


\NANT TO STUDY J:N CHJ:NA? 

University of Notre Dame International Study Programs 
shanghai 
INFORMATION SESSION 
5:00 PM 
Wednesday, September 19 215 DeBartolo 
APPLICATION DEADLINE FOR SPRING 2002: OCTOBER 1 
Wednesday, September 19, 200 I
page 10 The Observer . NEWS 
Asian investors wait for more news of U.S. market 
midday. much as 2.59 percent below Monday's
Associated Press 
On Tuesday, the average closed up close. The CAC 40 index of leading 
HONG KONG 
Share prices in Asia were mixed early Wednesday, as investors watched for developments in Afghanistan. Taiwan's key index plunged, however, as markets that were closed earlier in the week by a typhoon reopened. 
The Weighted Price Index of the Taiwan Stock Exchange tumbled 2.76 percent, or 
104.28 points, to 3,670.34 -its lowest level in eight years. Electronics shares, which account for almost 60 percent of the market, were down 3.1 percent. 
The government estimated that total damage from Typhoon Nari, which caused at least 55 deaths and closed down Taiwan's capital Taipei on Monday and Tuesday, could be as high as 12 bil­lion Taiwan dollars [$348 million] ­another blow to the ailing economy. 
Elsewhere, there were signs that mar­kets were following Wall Street's lead and settling down after a week of volatile trading following the Sept. 11 terror attacks in the United States. Overnight, the Dow Jones industrial average fell 
17.30 points, or less than 0.2 percent, to 8,903.40 on Tuesday. 
"People are just waiting for news to come out," said 

U.S. effort to draw together a diverse anti-terrorism coalition and for Afghanistan's reaction to Washington's demands for extradition of Osama bin Laden, the prime suspect in the attacks. 
Cheered by the lower-than-expected decline in New York, shares in Tokyo advanced early Wednesday. Sentiment was also helped by an overnight interest­rate cut by Japan's central bank, part of a global effort led by the Federal Reserve to calm jittery investors. 
Lower interest rates tend to boost stock trading because the cost of borrowing becomes cheaper.The benchmark 225­issue Nikkei Stock Average soared 329. 99 points, or 3.41 percent, tol0,009,87 by 175.47 points, or 1.85 percent.Hong Kong's Hang Seng index of blue chips surged 124.57 points, or 1.34 percent, to 9,432.47. 
Given the uncertainty over U.S. retalia­tion for the terror attacks, investors were buying telecoms stocks and shying away from more vulnerable trading, property and airline shares, said Liang of Vickers Ballas. "It's not a 
French shares sank as low as 2.06 per­cent beneath Monday's close before ris­ing to finish the day down 1.13 percent at 3,970.18. 
The Xetra DAX index on Germany's Deutsche Boerse fell 0.94 percent to 
4.194.85 in Frankfurt, after trading down as much as 2.66 percent earlier in the day. On Wall Street, market indica­
tors were up in early 
Hong Kong thing, it's afternoon trading before
"It's not a Hong Kong 
a global thing," Liang fading in late dealings. 
said. "Many people thing, it's a global thing. The Dow Jones industrial 
now view a mobile­Many people now view a average fell 17.30 to phone as a necessity, 8,903.40, according to
mobile phone as a 
not a luxury." preliminary calculations. In Seoul, the Korea necessity, not a luxury." The Nasdaq composite Composite Stock index fell 24.29 to Price Index edged 1,555.26 and the
Michael Liang
down 0.2 percent. Standard & Poor's 500
analyst at Vickers Ballas
Investors shrugged index declined 6.01 to
in Hong Kong
off the round of rate 1,032.76. The Dow 
cuts and instead focused on reports of an announcement by the Taliban that Afghanistan should prepare for a holy war, traders said. 
European stocks finished lower Tuesday 
but a late rally sparked by a modest rise in U.S. shares cut the losses. A strong performance acrossMichael Liang, an 
"People are just waiting Asia lost momentum, and
analyst at Vickers 
some markets there fell into
Ballas in Hong for news to come out.,. 
the red following last week's 
Kong. 
terrorist attacks in the
Asian markets 
Michael Liang United States. 
were watching for 
Oil and gold both retreat­
analyst at Vickers Ballas
developments in 
ed, and the dollar was most­
the in Hong Kong 
ly lower against other major 
currencies. Stocks declined 
on all major European mar­kets despite of interest rate cuts by cen­tral banks around the world, including a quarter percentage point cut by the Bank of England at midday. 
The European Central Bank followed with a similar cut, and the Bank of Japan dropped a key rate earlier Tuesday. Leading British. French and German stock exchanges all rebounded slightly from earlier lows once Wall Street showed signs of stabilizing after Monday's plunge in U.S. shares. 
The FTSE 100 index of British blue chips closed down 1.02 percent, or 50.20, at 4,848.70. The index had been down as 
dropped 7 .1 percent 
Monday in its biggest­ever point loss, while the Nasdaq tum­bled 6.8 percent. 
Tokyo stocks rose sharply Wednesday morning after investors cheered the pre­vious day's lower-than-expected fall on Wall Street. The dollar was weaker against the yen. 
The benchmark 225-issue Nikkei Stock Average rose 329.99 points, or 3.41 per­cent, to 10,009.87 at the end of morning trading. On Tuesday, the average closed up 17 5.4 7 points, or 1.85 percent. 
The dollar bought 117. 77 yen in late morning trading, down 0.05 yen from late Tuesday in Tokyo but above its late New York level of 117 .23 yen. 
On the stock market, the Nikkei rebounded sharply after investors in Tokyo were relieved that Wall Street's drops were lower than anticipated. 
Also supporting the Tokyo market was Tuesday's rate cut by Japan's central bank, which joined a global effort led by the U.S. Federal Reserve Board to try to calm jittery investors following last week's terror attacks. 
The Bank of Japan lowered its largely symbolic official discount rate -the rate the central bank charges on loans to commercial banks -to 0.10 percent from 
0.25 percent. Other central banks that have cut their 

Assoda1edPress 
graphics 
<AP> WORLD STOCK 091801: 
Ch.Jrt. ?.lh<JN:'J, rntJrfQ°m(lnO\i of !51ncltr. markets around the world for Tuesday, S€!pt 1Eli; 1c x{\ 1i8 inches; 47 mm x 131 mm; AS; ETA 2 p.m. <l.AP:> 
World markets 
H8re-ls hctN key irkerna:u-onai soc:~ mi:ll'~et;s p..irfcnrmd tr/41..:i~'. 


_:tS:%aOOlll 
Parili 
CAC-4(1 
• 4915,4& 
-1,t% A·U•SH 

London Zurich 
FME tm &.\ffl Mttmt•iGu. 
• 4,&W.tfr I • $J;[J3 6 
-~t~Q"~•¦R!111 i .~t~~~tt IIDIA 

interest rates this week include the United States, Great Britain, Canada, Switzerland, Sweden, Denmark, Taiwan, Hong Kong and New Zealand. 


ABC bans WTC plane crash video 
they're airing the images less lapse.
Associated Press 
than they did last week simply "Our policy has been what it's because the story is moving on. always been when there is sen­
NEW YORK 
ABC anchorman Peter sitive video," CBS News spokes-The arresting video images of Jennings said on the worn an
airplanes slamming into the 
air Friday that many Sandra
World Trade Center won't be "We have done our best
viewers had called Geneli us
shown again on ABC News with­
or e-mailed to say to be really judicious s a i d
out the network news chief's 
special permission. they were troubled with our use ofimages Tuesday. 
by the repeated use "The edi­
ABC News President David that seriously trouble a
of the footage. torialWestin ordered the ban Tuesday "We are mindful of great many people." decisions
amid concerns expressed by 
that," Jennings said are madeviewers that their repetition is then, "and we have on a
proving disturbing. Peter Jennings
done our best ... to case-by­
"There is a sense that repeat­
ABC anchonnan
be really judicious e a s e
ed use of with our basis."
t h e s e 
use of images that NBC News spokeswoman
images is 
"There is a sense that 
seriously trouble a Barbara Levin said the footage
inappro­

repeating use ofthese great many people." is airing less. "We will only use
priate," 
Even last it when it is appropriate and
said ABC images is inappropriate. " 
Thursday, CBS germane to the story," she said. 
N e w s 
News President Some cable news networks
spokes­
Su-Lin Cheng Nichols Andrew Heyward were criticized in the days fol­
woman 
ABC News spokeswoman told The Associated lowing the attacks when the
Su-Lin 
Press that his net-images were used as part of on­
Cheng 
work was being air promotions of their cover­
Nichols. 
careful in using the age. That use has generally sub­
"People 
images, generally sided.
will remember these images for­restricting them to stories where A CNN spokeswoman also saidever whether we put them on or they are relevant, such as a dis­the network is being judicious in not. It's no longer a public ser­
cussion about the structural use of the video, but has no
vice to continue to air them." 
reasons for the buildings' col-blanket ban.
Competing networks say 

Ashcroft warns of 
•
new internet worm 
Alan Paller, director of 
Associated Press 
research at the SANS Institute, a computer security 
WASHINGTON 
think tank. 
A new virus-like attack 
The Internet as a whole is
struck large companies 
functioning normally with no
Tuesday, and its rapid widespread slowdowns,spread threatened to slow 
according to Internet moni­down the Internet. Attorney toring firm Keynote Systems. 
General John Ashcroft 
Ashcroft said there is "no
warned the computer out­
evidence at this time" linking break could become worse the worm with last week'sthan the "Code Red" worm terrorist attacks in New Yorkearlier this summer. 
and Washington. 
The malicious software The worm can spread in 
program, known as W32­
many different ways. It can
Nimda, is complex and infect Web sites running
designed to spread to people 
Microsoft's Internet
who open infected e-mail or 
Information Services soft­visit an infected Web site. 
ware, like the recent "Code
The program generated 
Red" worm did. Once a Web more traffic on the \Veb, site is infected, any Web userslowing down many users. 
accessing it can get the
Security experts said it had worm. 
already infected tens of thou­Once one computer on a sands of computers, includ­company network is infected,
ing those at several large 
it can also travel across the 
companies. Experts moni­network to attack others. 
tored the outbreak and tried Together, this can cause an to figure out how it worked entire corporate network to 
as it created pockets of 
be infected if even a single
Internet congestion and worker visits an infected 
forced some companies Web site. offiine. Finally, it can send itself 
"There is so much traffic 
through an e-mail attach­
[caused by the worm] that it ment. The sender address is 
... makes you think the faked, and may be a well­Internet is down," explained known address. 
-
...--------------------------------------------------------------­-Wednesday, September 19, 2001 page 11
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
Bush reaches out to world leaders for support 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Bush, reaching out to build a global alliance against terrorism, won a strong commit­ment Tuesday from French · President Jacques Chirac, who· called the hijacking attacks on the United States a "tragedy which does not have a parallel." 
"We bring you the total soli­darity of France and the French people," Chirac told Bush in an Oval Office meeting. 
The meeting came as the Bush administration stepped up its efforts to reach out to leaders around the world, even making overtures to Cuba and Sudan, with which the United States has had tense relations. The admin­istration also began preparing a multibillion-dollar financial aid package for battered U.S. air­lines. 
Attorney General John Ashcroft, meanwhile, announced that the FBI had detained 7 5 people for questioning. At least four material witnesses have been arrested in the largest criminal investigation in the nation's history. A material wit­ness is someone who may have information about a crime. 
Ashcroft also announced new rules to allow the Justice Department's to detain people on immigration violations for 48 hours, double the current limit, and the creation of an anti-ter­rorism task force with represen­tatives in major cities. 

Bush, speaking before he and Chirac had a working dinner, said his goal was ..to rally the world toward a campaign to find terrorists." He cited an "out­pouring of support" from world leaders, including those in the Arab world. 
"We will take the governments for their word and will work with them to disrupt the finances, the travel, the commu­nications" of terrorists, he said. 
For his part, Chirac stopped ~ortofmingBush~"wu·~~ minology. 
"I don't know whether we should use the word 'war,' but what I can say is now we are faced with a conflict of a com­pletely new nature," Chirac said. 
Chirac was the first world leader Bush has met with since last Tuesday's attacks that demolished the World Trade Center in New York. severely damaged the Pentagon and left more than 5,000 people dead and missing. British Prime Minister Tony Blair is coming to Washington Thursday. 
France has sometimes had strained relations with the United States on military issues, including how to deal with Iraq. But Chirac told Bush: "We are completely determined to fight by your side this new type of evil, of absolute evil, which is terror-· ism." 
Bush marked the grim one­week milestone by leading White House employees -and the nation -in a moment of silence. He also thanked leaders of chari­table organizations at a later Rose Garden ceremony and praised Americans for rushing to give aid and comfort. 
"Out of our tears and sadness, we saw the best of America," Bush said. "We saw a great country rise up to help." 
Bush also called U.N. Secretary­General Kofi 
called the conversation a good beginning. 
Boucher also said a U.S. offi­cial visited Cuba's diplomatic mission in Washington and asked for whatever information Cuba may have about the terror­ist attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. Cuba has strongly condemned the Sept. 11 disaster. 
The United States also has said it is willing to explore the possi­bility of Iran's joining a broad international coalition to 
Annan, Brazilian President  "Out ofour tears and sadness, we saw the best  fight terror­ism. Iran, Sudan and  
Fernando  ofAmerica. We saw a  Cuba  are  on  
Henrique Cardoso and Canadian  great country rise up to help."  the State Department's list of nations  
P  r  i  m  e  that support  
Minister Jean Chretien. W h i t e  George W. Bush President  or sponsor terrorism. The United  
H  o  u  s  e  States  also  
spokesman  has  reached  

Ari Fleischer said Bush was out to Syria, another nation on employing a carrot-and-stick the list. The other three, which approach. "In different nations, have not been consulted, are the carrot may be bigger." Libya, Iraq and North Korea. Fleischer said. "In other nations. The administration continued the stick may be bigger." to focus on suspected fugitive 
Secretary of State Colin Powell terrorist Osama bin Laden as its called Sudanese Foreign prime suspect. Hundreds of Minister Osman Ismail Mustafa Islamic clerics gathered in the and took note of Sudan's offer of Afghan capital of Kabul to dis­cooperation in combatting ter­cus s possible conditions for rorism, State Department extraditing bin Laden to a coun­spokesman Richard Boucher try other than the United States. said. American officials are skepti­
It was the highest-level com­cal that the ruling Taliban will munication between the two hand over bin Laden. And countries in years, and Boucher Defense Secretary Donald H. 
Rumsfeld suggested that bin Laden's surrender would proba­bly not be enough to stop mili­tary action to root out terrorism. 
"Our adversaries are not one or two terrorist leaders.... It's a broad network of individuals and organizations that are deter­mined to terrorize," Rumsfeld told a Pentagon briefing. 
He said these networks have activities in 50 to 60 countries. "We'll have to deal with the net­works. One of the ways to do that is to drain the swamp they live in. and that means dealing not only with the terrorists, but those who harbor terrorists," Rumsfeld said. 
Meanwhile, Transportation Secretary Norman Y. Mineta said the administration was preparing a package of relief for hard-hit U.S. airlines and hoped it would be ready early next week. 
"They've got to be made whole," Min eta said after a White House meeting with lead­ers of major airlines. He said the attacks on Washington and New York are costing the ·industry $250 million to $300 million a day. 
"We are in very urgent need of a financial infusion very quick­ly," said Leo Mullin of Delta Air Lines, standing next to Mineta. He said estimates of airlines' needs ranged as high as $24 bil­lion. 
Members of both parties are eager to act on the airline legis­lation and could move even before the administration pre­sents its package. 

01stRVER­

page 12 Wednesday, September 19, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Pat Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck 
SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadter SAJNI' MARv's EDITOR: Myra McGriff 
PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner 
CONTROll.ER: Kevin Ryan 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 AoVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF ........................................ 631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS.......................................................... 631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINf...... ...........................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. I@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer .sports. l@nd.edu SCENE........................................................:631-4540 · observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire at http:llobserv(T.nd.rdu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates of prim ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary) College. Editorial content, including advercisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qurstions r~arding Obsrrv" policies should be dirrct­ed to Editor in ChiefMikr Connolly. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Choose peace 
"What would Jesus do?" It's a question that has become 
commonplace in America. It's one that a student raised in my 
class last week and I've been struggling with ever since the 
attacks on Sept. 11, especially as I hear politician~ speak of 
justice and retaliation as if they were the same thmg: 
I am an ordained minister and a graduate student m theolo­
gy. I have lived in the Middle East and experienced firsthand 
the fear that terrorists can cause, fear that persists long after 
retaliatory strikes have been carried out. I am also a new 
father who wants to protect his five-month old daughter and 
build a world of peace in which she can grow up without fear. 
I am one of the 8 percent of Americans cited in a TV poll who 
oppose retaliation against those responsible for Tuesday's 
tragedy, even as we grieve with the victims. We a~e not un­
American or nai:ve, nor do we seek to make America weak. "Ye 
are patriotic and realistic citizens who seek justice without v10­
lence and advocate a realistic alternative which actually 
requires great strength and courage. I ask you now to listen to 
our voices as you consider the actions our country should take 
in response to this week's tragedies. 
What would Jesus do? I realize that this may seem like an 
irrelevant question in the face of the political and practical 
realities that must be considered in choosing how to respond 
to violence. Yet I believe that a non-violent response has legit-, 
imacy. This year we even saw the trial of those responsible / 
for the Lockerbie bombing. It took a long time and may / 
have been anticlimactic compared to the actions of the 
guilty parties, but it was accomplished without violence/ 
using international law. 
Perhaps a non-violent response could convince ter­
rorists that we are not the arrogant, power-hungry 
monsters that they clailll:. Perha_ps they might ~v~n / 
change their ways and give up v10lence. Even 1f I m : 
being too optimistic, consider the example we set 1 
for our children. We try to teach our children that / 
violence and vigilant responses are wrong. We 
claim that our nation is founded upon the princi-' 
pies ofjustice and fair trials. Let us remain true to 
these principles, even in this horrible tragedy, and 
search for justice not a continuation of violence. 
The Bible repeatedly tells the story of how God's 
people failed when they tried to accomplish things 
by themselves, instead of relying on God. But when 
they did rely on God's power, amazing things hap­
pened. Are we about to make that same mistake? 
Will our reliance on our own military power prevent 
God from working wonders in our time? ~ · 
What would Jesus do? Jesus taught his followers to ~ · 
forsake the re~enge of an "eye for an eye" and instead to-~ 
love our enemies and to turn the other cheek. Many peo-· , 
ple have called this a Christian country. If we are a ~ 
Christian country, should we not take his instructions very ~ 
seriously? 
I'll be honest. I don't know exactly what Jesus would do in 
this situation. Each of us must ponder this alone. Even so, this 
week we have seen Americans of all backgrounds come 
together in clinics across the country and wait patiently for 
hours to donate blood for the victims of Tuesday's attack. I 
would rather that our children and future generations remem­
ber that image from this week, not the violent retaliation 
against our enemies. 
I know that there are many complex issues involved in 
choosing America's response to this tragedy. I understand that 
many people are angry. That is completely le_gi~imate a?,d I . 
share their anger and grieve with all of the v1ct1ms, the1r fami­
lies and the nation. Yet I pray that whatever we do, we do it 
because it is the right and necessary thing to do, not because 
we are angry or afraid or because our pride was hurt. 
Our leaders and we ourselves must follow our consciences, 
but I ask each of you to listen to this question as well. Please 
ask yourself. "What would Jesus do?" 
Reverend Jonathan David Lawrence 
graduare smdent Sept. 17, 2001 
Defend our way of life 
The few of you who might recognize my name may remember me for five years o~ lightheart~d columns in these pages. But sometimes, my friends, life isn't so damn funny. 
I am very disturbed by recent letters in The Observer which suggest that the United States must embrace a "non-violent" response to the attacks of Sept. 11 if we want to do "the right thing" or "the truly Catholic thing." The only way to stop further atrocities is to state in no uncertain terms that America will not passively accept such attacks on our homeland. I wonder if those of you calling for a military stand-down would feel the same way if, God forbid, you looked out your dorm window one morning and saw a hijacked airliner bearing down 
on the Golden Dome or LeMans Tower. We must defend ourselves and our way of life now or our enemies will grow ever bolder. /'\Our leaders are not roaring 
. to carry out "an eye for an ( , eye" vengeance. They are ' seeking to provide com­
mon sense self defense. Unfortunately last 
Tuesday wasn't a nightmare, or a bad movie. The United 
States was viciously \ \ attacked on its own 
\ soil. These bomb­
'  
'  ings were carried  
out for no other  
\  reason than to kill  

~ , as many innocent 
L. 1people -civilians, I mind you, not mili­/ tary personnel -as 
/ possible. If there / existed a realistic 1 way to defend our­
/ selves without further / bloodshed, I would be ; the first to support a / plan of that nature. Such I suggestions as economic sanctions sound like nice, neat solutions but are terribly inappropriate efforts in the face of such blatant disregard for human life. 
War is never pretty nor welcome. Our brave ser­vicemen and women don't relish the idea of deploy­ment, but at times it is unavoidable. I shudder to think of what the world would be like today if the Allies attempted to stop Hitler with boycotts and strongly worded resolutions. Our generation has now received the call to take up the proud example set by our grandparents. The nation must act pru­dently but decisively. We will pray for peace even as we rise to defend our freedom. . 
The members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's ROTC community, seniors and recent graduates in particular, are in my thoughts and prayers. God bless America, the rescue workers, our armed forces and President George W. Bush. 
Mary Beth Ellis Saine Mary's College class of '99 Sept. 17, 2001 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Maribel Morey Sam Derheimer 
Van Giles Graphics Maureen Smithe Katie McKenna Justin Krivickas Production 
Sports Jeff Baltruzak 
Katie Hughes Lab Tech 
Viewpoint Shannon Bennet 
Lori Lewalski 
POLL QUESTION 
Should the United States use military action to respond to the terrorist attacks? Please e-mail viewpoint.l@nd.edu by Friday to report your answer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"All wars are popular for the first 30 days." 
Arthur Schlesinger, Jr. historian 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

Wednesday, September 19, 2001 page 13 
Wonderful people make service worthwhile 
Anyone that might walk into my room would think I am suffering from an identi­ty crisis. My shelves are lined with care­fully placed Puerto Rican memorabilia, departure gifts upon the completion of two years of post­graduate service. Rebecca When people ask me Hammel where I am from my first impulse is to say For a More Puerto Rico, although Just and I begrudgingly admit Humane that I am indeed 
World 
from Massachusetts. 
Sometimes I ask myself how exactly this new identity emerged. I suppose that the answer would include a combination of an open heart and mind with two years of living in the Peninsula de Cantera, a humble neighborhood of San Juan, and working in community development. 
I worked with a youth leadership devel­opment program, tutored school dropouts studying for the GED and taught conver­sational English to children. By the end of my service commitment it was difficult to go anywhere without seeing someone I knew or without being greeting by the excited shouts and hugs of children. 
Leaving was the hardest thing that I have ever had to do in my life. I remem­ber vividly my last morning in Puerto Rico when I had to say goodbye. I was talking to Waleska, a member of the youth lead­ership group. We had our backs turned to each other because we knew that if we looked each other in the face we would break down. We were both fighting back the tears and laughing at ourselves, not quite ready to accept the reality of life without the other's physical presence. I thought about all the times that Waleska had come to me for advice, and I humbly offered it. I remembered how I had helped her prepare for the prom and written her college recommendation. I watched her graduate from high sc~ool with high honors and had come to love her as a sister. 
We both realized it was my time to go. During my last few weeks my imminent departure led me to appreciate the rela­tionships I had formed in Puerto Rico. I realized for the first time the meaning of my presence for the teenagers with whom I worked. They expressed their affection and love in such beautiful, direct ways that I was left overwhelmed with emotion. 
Now when I think of Waleska and so many others, I immediately smile and laugh. Of course I miss them terribly, but for me their memory evokes an intense awareness of the abundance of life's blessings. My response therefore is not sadness, but sincere and profound grati­tude. · 
During my two years I was passionate 
about my work in community develop­
ment. This allowed my life to assume a 
depth and sense of purpose that I before 
had never experienced. I was fortunate to 
meet, among my fellow volunteers, co­. workers and the residents of the 
Peninsula de Cantera, wonderful people 
to cry and laugh with. In spite of the phys­
ical distance that separates us. I will carry 
them with me in my heart and mind. 
Through these relationships I was able to 
establish a strong sense of community 
that became the core of my experience. 
I am not trying to offer an idyllic por­
trayal of post-graduate service, but rather 
a realistic one. Being a volunteer wasn't 
always easy. There were many frustra­
tions and obstacles along the way but very 
little that is worthwhile comes without 
challenges. I learned to welcome life's 
adversity and transform it into a source of 
meaning. And most importantly, I learned 
to laugh at myself. It is amazing how 
your perspectives can be modified with a 
change in outlook and optimism. 
At this moment I am not able to fully 
discern the life significance of my post­
graduate experience in Puerto Rico. It is 
something that will slowly unravel with 
time. If I might leave you with one sugges­
tion: Within whatever you choose to do 
after Notre Dame/Saint Mary's, do allow 
yourself to be open to whatever life might 
have in store for you, both the joys and the struggles, otherwise you may miss a 
lot. 
When I lived in Puerto Rico I made a conscious choice to take risks, to create community whenever I could and to embrace life. The rewards have been immeasurable. Those that were once strangers to me are now my beloved friends, and a place that once seemed for­eign has become my community. For two difficult and incredible years Puerto Rico was my home, and in a sense it always will be. 
"For a More Just and Humane World, " the Center for Social Concerns' column, appears every other Wednesday. Rebecca Hammel, class of '99. recently completed two years ofpost-graduate service with the Puerto Rico Center for Social Concerns. She is currently beginning her first year oflaw school and eventually hopes to enter the field ofinternational human rights with a focus on Latin America. 
All are invited to explore service oppor­tunities at the Post-graduate Service Fair on Sept. 26from 6 -9 p.m. at Stepan Center. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofthe The Observer. 

Finding words proves difficult in tragedy 
It has been one week -one week since lives changed irrevocably for many people; one week since the unprecedented attack upon United States citizens in their homeland, in their places of business; one week since the reality of a peace­ful United States existence· became not so real anymore. 
And in light of recent events, what else should one discuss? What else could 
one discuss? While life does go on, it is difficult at this time  
to rant about the ills of smoking, the difficulties of cell  Anna Barbour  
phone usage, or the lack of humanity in the meat-packing  
industry. The light and fire of these arguments is damped  
out so to speak. Lines are drawn, priorities are decided.  
On Thursday the New York Times columnist Thomas  Get a Life  
Friedman, wrote the column "World War III" in which he  
states: "They [the terrorists) only had to destroy. We, by  
contrast, have to fight in a way that is effective without  

destroying the very open society we are trying to protect. We have to fight hard and land safely. We have to fight the terrorists as if there were no rules, and pre­serve our open society as if there were no terrorists. It won't be easy. It will require our best strategists, our most creative diplomats and our bravest sol­diers." 
This is not a time for my words. This is a time without words, a time that reminds me of a line from Dylan Thomas's poem, "Do Not Go Gentle Into That Good Night:" 
"Rage, rage against the dying of the light." 
My thoughts are with you, but my words are silenced. 
Anna Barbour is a junior English major. Her column apprears every other Tuesday. She can be contacted at barbour.3@nd.edu. The views expressed in this column are thse ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Terrorists must reap what they have sown 
The United States doest not negotiate with terrorists. 
Clearly the tragic events of Sept. 11 demand a response from the United States. There has been much debate over just what that response should be. Sad to say, I feel the only viable response is military action. 
Other responses that have been pre­sented are simply impossible for us to use. Some on this campus say we should reexamine our foreign policy to find out how it has provoked terrorism. The terrorist organization Islamic Jihad agrees with them. "What happened in the United States today is a conse­quence of American policies in this region," said Islamic Jihad official Nafez Azzam. 
We absolutely cannot modify our for­eign policy in the face of terrorism. To do so would send the message that ter­rorist acts will accomplish terrorist goals. If we give in even the smallest bit after this attack, we invite the terrorists to blow up another building next week so that we'll give a little bit more. 
I'll be the first to admit that the United States is not a saint among nations. We've done some things we shouldn't have done. But no civilized person could claim that this justifies the barbaric attack we suffered Sept. 11. Still, some say we should try to reason with our enemies, find some common ground. 
In my opinion, you don't reason with someone who killed 5,000 of your coun­trymen, you bring them to justice. If these enemies of ours had come to us like civilized people and attempted to open a dialogue with us we would have been able to come to some agreement. It probably wouldn't have been a likely outcome, but the point is now moot. 
They instead viciously attacked us like wild animals. Our hands are tied as far as our response goes. Negotiation is out of the question. Economic pressure has proven time and again to be ineffective. Military force is the only viable response available to us. 
I'm no warmonger. A war is horrible for everyone involved. But sometimes the cause of peace can only be advanced by war. 
This is not about revenge; it's about bringing criminals to justice and pre­venting further crimes. 
Some say that military action will only breed more hatred for the United States. I say that's fine, as long as they learn to fear us. We must show the world that terrorism will bring nothing but death or imprisonment to terror­ists. I'm not saying we should indis­criminately bomb Afghanistan, but we must go in and get bin Laden or whoev­er the culprit is. Innocent people will probably die, but our enemies in this war have already shown a callous dis­regard for our innocent people, and unless we act, we might as well start counting down until the next heinous attack. It is the terrorists themselves and the governments that harbor them that have placed their citizens' lives in danger. They have made their choice. Now they must reap what they have sown. 
Only when the violence has stopped will we be free to negotiate with those who oppose us. 
Mike Zodda 
sophomore 
Alumni Hall Sept. 18, 200 l 

page_J4 
Listening to the Irish squirrels 
A recent conversation between Roger Squirrel and Joe Squirrel on 
North Quad: Roger: What's up Joe. How are your nuts? Joe: Eh, they've been better. I lost track of a couple of them, forgot 
what tree I buried them under. 
Roger: I hear that. I mean, why even bother preparing for snow? We could just eat out of the dumpster at North Dining Hall all winter. 
Joe: Ha! But then we'd have to eat dining hall food, and all the chipmunks eat that. Roger: Seriously. Thank God for Burger King. 
Joe: What's up with chipmunks anyway? They're like wannabe squirrels. They don't even eat garbage. 
Joe: You should have seen this gray squirrel I chased up a tree. Man, she had the bushiest tail. One fine-tailed squirrel. 
Roger: Dude, all those gray squirrels just dress up like that on Thursday nights. The rest of the week. they all wear sweats. 
Joe: Tell me about it man. And how come all 
the gray squirrels have to live in their own trees? And we can only go in their trees during the day? Man, that isn't fair. 
Roger: Yeah, I don't even know what to say to a gray squirrel. I was 

going to ask one to the Squirrel Your Roommate dance, but I just couldn't say anything. 
Joe: It's like you can't even ask them to come and eat a rotten apple core out of the garbage. They automatically assume that you want to chase them up a tree. 
Roger: And then if you do chase them up a tree, it's usually because you've eaten too many acorns, weren't thinking straight and things get weird. 
Joe: Yeah, you don't want to eat too many acorns and then talk to 
gray squirrels. They think you're dumb then and then things get 
weird. 
Roger: The gray squirrels think rm weird anyway. 
Joe: That's because you bury all your nuts around Stepan Center. 
Roger: I guess. 
Joe: Here comes Buddy Squirrel. He never buries any nuts. He lives 
over by the College of Business. 
Buddy: Dude, I'm going out tonight to eat some massive acorns at 
the Nut Club. Who's coming with me? 
Joe: We have to bury nuts. 
Buddy: OK, brody, but its going to be an acorn party! 
Roger: He's better than Alex Squirrel. the one that lives by O'Shag. 
He says he has to bury all these nuts and acts like he buries nuts all 
the time, but never buries any. 
Joe: Seriously. Archie Squirrel buries the most nuts out of anybody . 
over by Bond Hall. 
Roger: Archie Squirrel's a myth. Have you ever seen him anywhere 
except by Bond Hall? 
Joe: No, I haven't. He never leaves there. Poor squirrel. 
Roger: Yep, poor squirrel. 
Joe: Clieck it out -some kid left half a Grab 'N' Go sandwich over 
there. It's ours! 
Roger: Thank God for Grab 'N' Go. 
Joe: We'd never eat if it wasn't for Grab 'N' Go. I think the same goes for humans. 
Roger: Seriously. 
,. 
Jeff Baltruzak welcomes angry letters from literate squirrels. Contact Jeff at baltruzak.2@nd.edu. The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
O
THE
BSERVER 
By C. SPENCER BEGGS Associate Scene Editor 
Once again, U.S. News & World Report has rated Notre Dame in the top 20 schools in the country. ESPN ranks Notre Dame as No. 23 in college football. But did you know that Notre Dame has some of the best rated squirrels in the country? It's true. 
Jon Gottshall has a rather interesting pastime; he rates campus squirrels and posts them on his website, www. gots hall.com/sq uir­re ls. Gottshall has been rating squirrels on his web­site since 1995. He got the idea as he traveled to vari­ous college campuses while doing research for his mas­ter's degree (not on squir­rels. by the way) from California State University at Fullerton. 
Gottshall rates campuses on a one-to-five squirrel system. Ratings are based on field reports from stu­dents and alumni of the universities. 
Gottshall believes that the abundance and nature of squirrels on a campus indi­cates the quality of its host institution. The website rates campuses based on a 
Wednesday, September 19, 2001 
Squirrel~ 
Scene looks at t~ 
variety of traits in its squir­rels including: cuteness, charm and friendliness. Notre Dame received a four-squirrel rating thanks to former student Eric Mason's observation that Note Dame squirrels "have it better in South Bend than humans." 
The website notes that Notre Dame has the added advantage of being in prime fox squirrel county. Fox squirrels are orange in color and have larger bushier tales than their gray, city-dwelling counter­parts. Gottshall has yet to rate Saint Mary's. 
Squirrels are rodents. But unlike most other rodents, squirrels are diurnal. While many campus squirrels may seem tame, they are not. In fact, squirrels don't like to be handled much, so petting one may be out of the question. 
According to Gottshall, squirrels usually allow themselves to be handled only when you are feeding them. Some squirrels are l;:nown to bite if you "vio­late their personal squirrel space." According to Gottshall, squirrels rarely carry rabies s_o it's not too much of a problem if you are bitten. Squirrels may. 
on  the  
o t  h  e  r  
h  a  n  d  ,  

carry var­ious para­sites or viruses that are harmful. 
If you do choose to feed the squir­r e l s , Gottshall recom­mends giving them fil­berts, or hazelnuts as they are com­mo n l y known. Squirrels like hazel;. nuts that are still in the shell; however. they can s o m e ­times be expensive and hard to find. A cheaper and more available alternative to filberts is roasted peanuts. Gottshall points out that you should only feed· squirrels roasted peanuts because raw 



Some webt rel.com ke4 
-----.w-------------------------------------------------------·-­
O
THE 
BSERVER 
Wednesday, September 19, 2001 
page 15 


; take on cyberspace 
1e bizarre world ofsquirrel-related websites. 
certain that the mother will not be coming back. Dehydrated baby squirrels can be helped by being fed liquids. The site rec­ommends Esbilac or Pedialyte to feed to a found injured squir­rel. 0th er liquids including cow's milk may cause serious medical problems. 
The site does not recommend that individuals care for injured animals themselves because it is illegal to process wildlife without proper authority to do so. The site also lists ways to contact experts in wildlife rehabilitation and veterinarians as well. 
Of course not all sites are pro-squir­re l. At peanuts have an enzyme that www.squirrel-rehab.org. The babies that have fallen from www.scarysquirrel.org web can destroy their digestive site details how to rehabilitate their nests, or dreys as they surfers can read anti-squirrel tracks and may make them an injured baby squirrel, find are called. In most cases if pi:_opaganda. The site has extremely sick or even kill a wildlife rehabilitator in your the mother is going to return reams of bizarre diatribes them. area and even treat metabolic for the children after the drey railing against the "nut dev­Further information of the bone disease in convalescent falls, she will do so immedi­ils." The highlight of the site proper care and feeding of squirrels. ately. If a baby squirrel is is the Notice to Vacate game squirrels can be found at Most injured squirrels are found by a human, it is almost in which you must defend a 
house from raiding squirrels (The Observer staff high score came in at 361,200 points}. 
Much of the site is written from the perspective of prairie dogs that want to effect a mass genocide against squirrels and destroy their infamous leader Tufty the Safety squirrel. 
The site also has regular campus updates about nefari­ous squirrel activity. The last update for Saint Mary's was on July 1, 2000. A student, known only as "Debbie," reported a dangerous squirrel that apparently stares down his victims with beady eyes. 
In fact, the typing the word "squirrel" into any basic search engine brings up hun­dreds of squirrel-related web­sites. The content ranges from pictures of squirrels in peo­ple's back yards to bizarr.e fiction and squirrel-based video games. 
So, next time you hear somebody tell you that they go to one of the top schools in the country, ask them what their squirrel rating is. 


Photo courtesy of www.gottshall.com Gottshall ranks the squirrels on the University of California at Berkeley very highly. This squirrel rates as almost perfect. 
~ 
I 
' 
\ 
' page 16 Wednesday, September 19, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS
\ \ 
I! ' ' ' : 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
l' 
\ 
\ 
'' 
Nomo fans 11, Martinez shines in Boston win 
\ 
\ \ «. for three hours to escape," said innings. holler on the bench, but then Escobar said. "I can't get a grip 
' h \ \ ( 
Associated Press 
Sturtze, whose childhood friend A Boston firefighter and police Alex hit the home run and guys on the hall." lost his wife on one of the officer each threw out a ceremo­started to get into it." Mondesi led off the bottom half 
\ \ BOSTON planes. "I think it was great for nial first pitch. Dan Plesac (4-4), who got two of the inning with his 25th 
The pitcher was from Japan. 
the fans also. not to be home And, for one night at least, the outs in the eighth, was the win­homer.
< 
) z The hitter was from the watching 1V to see what's going crowd of 30,979 -ending a ner, while Billy Koch pitched the Pinch-hitter Tony Fernandez 
I\ 
Dominican Republic. Together, 
on." team-record 65-game sellout ninth for his 32nd save in 37 added an RBI single to givethey gave the Boston Red Sox a
' \ \ Fans waved U.S. flags in the streak -set aside its intense, opportunities. Toronto a 5-3 lead. Fernandez 
\ 
\ rare victory and their fans an stands and great sheets of fabric but suddenly trivial, rivalry with Ripken it at 5 in the eighth set a club record with his 12th 
opportunity to escape the United 
I, were unfurled in the outfield by the New York Yankees. At least with his 13th home run off Paul pinch hit of the season. 
I' 
I \ States' week of terror. military color guards; the flags one fan even dared to hold an "I Quantrill. Ripken, who will retire Jerry Hairston narrowed the I\ 
Hideo Nomo struck out 11, and 
I behind home plate and above Love NY" sign. at the end of the season, left the lead to 5-4 with a homer off 
Manny Ramirez hit his 40th
I \ 
! \ center field hung at half-staff. dugout and tipped his helmet Pedro Borbon in the seventh 
homer Tuesday night as Boston 
\ Other flags were dangled from while receiving a standing ova-
I \ Blue Jays 8, Orioles 5 
i \ beat the Tampa Bay Devil Rays 
the roof deck boxes and waved Alex Gonzalez managed to tion. Indians 11, Royals 2' \ 7-2. 
with gusto by a fan who.jumped "When they tied it up every-Squatting behind the plate,
keep his focus -at least when
I It was just the second Red Sox
: ' ~ onto the roof of the Red Sox body realized it was back to nor-Eddie Taubensee felt like an 
I \ he was at the plate. 
win in 15 games over three 
dugout before the seventh mal, and we were in a dog American hero. 
Gonzalez hit two homers,
I \ weeks that saw them fall out of
I \ 
inning. Edgy policemen eyed him fight," Martinez said. "I was like a little kid," said
' \ including a tiebreaking, three­
contention and then reminded 
for signs of more serious mis­Security was tightened at Taubensee, who wore a
I I I \ them just how little that mat­run shot in the eighth inning,
chief, but he eventually hopped SkyDome because of last week's Cleveland firefighter's helmet
I ) and the Toronto Blue Jays
tered.
I \ back into the stands and terrorist attacks in New York during pregame ceremonies on
restarted their season with a vic­
"It's tough to watch that every
:~ returned to his seat to the cheers and Washington. Police were at Tuesday night. "That was real
tory over the Baltimore Orioles
day on TV, the tragedy," said
' \ of the crowd. each gate, bags were checked, neat."
' \ on Tuesday night. 
Trot Nixon, whose wife gave 
Increased security was in evi­and even Toronto players had \Vas it ever.
:~ birth to their first child the after­"They were enjoyable
dence before the game as well, their cars searched. on a night baseball came back
' ~ moments. I had a few smiles, hut
noon of the attacks on the World 
( with security guards checking "It's a whole new world, and to Jacobs Field, Taubensee's
as I was going back on the field I
; Trade Center and the Pentagon. 
bags as fans and reporters it's unfortunate that we have gesture honoring both
\ caught myself thinking about
I ( "It's good to have the 
entered the stadium, and dogs people in this world that make Cleveland's and New York's fire­
what was going on in the world," 
American public turn the chan­
sniffed the press box and club­things this way," Quantrill said. fighters 6erved as a reminder of
Gonzalez said. 0 It was a constant
d 
nel and watch the Red Sox play houses for bombs before the battle to focus, but hopefully, as Baltimore's Brady Anderson a week no one will ever forget.
the Devil Rays," he said. "This 
game. was touched by the pre-game Travis Fryman hit a grand
the games go on, it will start get­
country, this game, will rise 
Leading a pregarne ceremony ceremonies that included the slam, Kenny Lofton homered
ting better." 
above all this and come out on 
from the public address booth, singing of God Bless America. twice and the Cleveland Indians
The Orioles lost their ninth in a
top." 
stadium announcer Ed Brickley's row, and have dropped 15 of 16. "It feels good to know that returned rr·om a weeklong layoff 
Wearing his pants high to 
voice cracked as he discussed Homer Bush singled and third another country feels for following the terrorist attacks toshow the team's red, white and 
last week's attack. America," Anderson said. rout the Kansas City Royals.
baseman Cal Ripken 's error
blue socks, Nixon went 3-for-4 
The teams lined the baselines Brad Fullmer, Felipe Lopez Just before the emotional
allowed Josh Phelps to reach
with a walk and an RBI. He 
as a priest led the crowd in a and Raul Mondesi also homered
base before Gonzalez hit a 3-2 pregame ceremonies, a
scored Boston·s first run on 
pregame prayer, asking God to pitch off Jorge Julio (1-1) to give for Toronto. Cleveland fireman asked
Ramirez's third-inning single, 
"Bless our recreation that will Toronto an 8-5 lead. Gonzalez gave Toronto a 1-0 Taubensee if the Indians catcher then scored again when Ramirez 
refresh our tired spirits." lead in the first and Fullmer and would wear his protective head­
Gonzalez, who went 3-for-4
homered in a five-run sixth 
"You can't help but feel goose­Lopez hit consecutive homers in -gear onto the field for the cere­
with four RBI, hit his 15th and 
l 
inning that made it 7-2. 
"Everyone's emotions were a bumps when you're standing out career-high 16th homers in his the second. monial first pitch. there. It sends chills up and Jeff Conine's RBI single in the "I said, 'Sure, I'd be honored,"' 
little bit different from before," second multihomer game this
down your spine," Boston man­sixth brought the Orioles within Taubensee said. "Those guys are
Nomo (12-8) said through. an season and the fourth of bis 
ager Joe Kerrigan said. "I don't 3-2 arid Toronto starter Kelvim · 
interpreter after allowing just career. the real heroes, not ballplayers.think it will ever be like before "It was nice to see the fans and Escobar walked Larry Bigbie Our lives aren't in danger where
two unearned runs on five hits 
the tragedy." with the bases loaded to force in we work...
and a walk for his first win in the players be able to go out for
Todd Angilly, who works as a 
a few hours and take their the tying run. There were other reminders of nine starts. 
chef in the Fenway media dining minds off things," Gonzalez said. Escobar then left the game last week's tragedies. 
Tanyon Sturtze (8-12) was 
room, sang both ··cod Bless with tightness in his right fore-Mike Sweeney sang "God Bless
charged with seven runs on nine His homer in the first gave
America" and the "Star­arm. It's second time this season America" in Kansas City's club­
Toronto a 1-0 lead.
hits, four walks and two hit bats­
Spangled Banner." Other patri­he has been forced to leave a house before the game just like
men as Tampa Bay lost its fifth "It was a real spooky first 
consecutive game. otic songs, from "Anchors inning," Toronto manager Buck game because of numbness in Cleveland fans did during the Aweigh" to "This Land is Your 
Martinez said. "I don't think any­his arm. seventh-inning stretch, replacing 
"I think all of us had a chance 
Land" were played between "It's not painful. It feels weak," "Take Me Out to the Ball Game." 
body felt like they had a right to 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
For rent: Various size apts. avail.  Need 2 Tix for MSU  
1-1/2 miles from ND.  Call Dan 634-1842  
FOR RENT  233·2098  FOR SALE  TICKETS  Exchange 2 Tenn for 2 BC  PERSONAL  
4•4421  
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM­PUS  WANTED  Northshore Condo, 1428 Marigold Way  COMFORT & PRIVACY· Great 2 bdrm-near ND. Appliances includ- WANTED -ND TICKETS  SPRING BREAK Largest selection of Spring ·Break  
mmmrentals.com  near ND, 1 bdr, 1 bath, LR, DR &  ing WAJDA stay. Garage. 919 N.  Destinations, including Cruises!  
email: mmmrentals@aol.com  STUDENT WORK  kitchen w/appliances.  Twyckenham. $59,900 Cressy and  289-9280  Rep Positions, Free Drinks and  
$14.50 Base-appt.  1 car garage. $69,900  Everett 277-2666  Free trips available.  
Call Doris at  Buying some/ Selling a few extra  www. EpicuRRean.com  
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and  Vector Mkt. is filling PT cust.  254-1772 for more info.  TICKETS  N.D. Football Tickets.  1-800-231-4-FUN  
Breakfast Inn has space available  svc./sales positions (5-20hrs)  
' )  for football/parent wknds. 5 rooms with private baths, $80-$115,  Flex. around classes. Scholarships.  Northshore Condo, 1428 Marigold Way  BUY-SELL ND FOOTBALL TICKETS  219-289-8048  Good job kicking butt today in Volleyball, Stina Nell & Kristie  
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  Cond. apply  near ND, 1 bdr, 1 bath, LR, DR &  277-6619  FOR SALE NAVY, WVA, PITT GAS  
Toll Road Exit #107. 1-800-418·  kitchen w/appliances.  I'm going to TNB in 5 mins.  
9487  www.workforstudents.com/np call  1 car garage. $69,000  ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED  654-0168  
M-W 12-5pm 282-2357  Call Doris at  Cass • ETS (yours) is down to 1  
Apt. 2 bdrm $350/person incl. util.  254-1772 tor more info.  A.M. · 232-2378  $$ NEED8TIX4 WVU  day.  
$150 dep. close to ND. 120 W cripe  Spanish translation needed for ed.  P.M. • 288-2726  915·241-5999  
st.  material. Good pay. Work at home.  52055 Old Post Lane  Or is it ET AS?  
277-~455  Spacious 4 bdrm, 2-story on private  NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TIX  WANTED U2 TKTS  
IHRD (8-5, M-F)  lane in Farmington Square. 2373  FOR SALE  232-0964  I don't know.  
(  HOUSE FOR RENT: 1 )9-br  273-8857.  SF + professionally finished base- A.M. -252-2378  
I I (  $2400/month. 2) 5-br $1500/month. 3) 4-br $1000/month. Call Bill at  FOOSBALL -Looking for high level  ment. Call Jack at 280-7730. Century 21 Jim Dunfee Realty.  P.M. -288-2726  4 Weezer Tix tor Sale.  Do you feel loved?  
( ( (  532-1896.  players. Do you have it? Call D 257-4441  '88 GMC SLE pickup truck. Looks  Want to trade 1 or 2 MSU GA tix for 1 or 2 USC tix. 631-9853, 271-0793  Row 12! Sept 21 -United Center ­Chicago. Call Joe 634-1897.  Miss Cleo is one cool lady ... she tells me stuff about myself that I  
Turtle Creek Apt. Opening  good, runs great.  or 532-0793.  already know  
1 Br $655 276-4809  Wanted: childcare for 4 children,  WILL TRADE TICKETS  
Mon. afternoons, close to ND, for  Gall Mark at 273-0449.  ND tickets for sale. Lowest prices.  Leanne, this is how you get your  
5 Rooms for rent on football week- approx 5 hrs. Must have own car.  232-0964.  ND FOOTBALL FOR U2  name in The Observer. -S  
ends. Many happy repeat cus- FOR SALE:  232-0964  
tomers. 2 minles N. of campus  Please call 237-1981.  Red 1987 Toyota Celica. Good con- Tickets Swap USC for TN upto 6.  She's what, a deuce, deuce and a  
dition, new snow tires. $1500. Call  Days 901-332•6735.  NEED 2 GA'S TO TENNESSEE.  half?  
277-8340.  Seeking reliable, experienced  243-9059.  WILL CONSIDER OTHERS.  
babysitter for 3 month old girl.  A BUSINESSMAN NEEDS FOOT­ CALL JACK 674-6593.  Juggs Beach 2·0  
For rent: remodeled 4-bdrm house.  Weekday afternoons, 5 mn. from  Large desk w/credenza. $400 for  BALL SEASON TICKETS *GAs  
( ( I  3 blks. from ND. Garage avail. 23-2104  ND. Call Jame at 288· 1801.  both. 282-2228  ONLY* Will BUY INDIVIDUAL GAMES 277-1659 .....  Need 2-3 A&M VS ND tix. Call Pat 277-2243.  AM -I hope you're not too tired today-J  
~  
!  
.l  ......  
I  
I  
'  

Wednesday, September 19, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
League to keep full 16 game schedule 
That would mean three divi­are likely to have the regular the Super Bowl, to be played in header at the Superdome. The
Associated Press 
sion winners and three wild­officials back. New Orleans, from Jan. 27 to Super Bowl would be played
card teams in each conference NFL sources, speaking on Feb. 3. There is only a one-the next week at another site 
NEW YORK would make the playoffs rather condition of anonymity. said week break this year after the with New Orleans promised
The NFL will play a full 16-than the three winners and just the executive committee of the championship games. another game in the future. game schedule this season, one wild card. NFL Referees Association was One way to do that would be The 16-game season making up last week's missed "This would be the best of voting by e-mail on a proposal to switch the Super Bowl and appeared to be a certainty soon games in the first week of both worlds. If they can keep by the league that would end the National Auto Dealers after Tagliabue announced last 
January. 
the 16-game schedule and the the lockout that lasted through Convention, scheduled for the Thursday that last week's 
And while it may stiff reduce six wild cards, then every­the final game of preseason next week. The Pro Bowl, games were off because of the the number of playoff teams body's happy. It's just back to and the first game of the regu­scheduled for Feb. 4, would terrorist attacks in New York from 12 to eight, commissioner business," said coach Mike lar season. If it is ·either be and Washington.Paul Tagliabue said Tuesday Sherman of Green Bay, one of approved by m o v e d One reason is financial. If the that full play­many teams noon EDT "I'm sure they'll come up back a league had played 15 games,offs are still a "If we cannot resolve our whose playoff Wednesday, the with an answer for it. week or 15 teams would have playedpossibility. chances regular officials played as seven home games instead of
entire postseason lineup They understand 
Tagliabue would be hurt will be back for scheduled eight, missing out on one lucra­said the in a satisfactory fashion, badly if the Sunday's games. the importance w it ho u t tive gate. And the league would league's com­we then will go to a NFL cut back As for the play­ofthe playoffs .. p I a y e r s owe the networks $40 million­petition com­on wild cards. offs, Tagliabue from Super $60 million for the wild-card
system ofsix division 
mittee had ''I'll be curi­said: B o w l games that would not be voted unani­winners and two wild­ous to see "We continue Andy Reid teams. played if the alternate scenar­mously to card teams for this what follows to work on keep­Eag1es coach Another ios don't work out. keep the 16-after this," ing six division o p t i o n Another was practical. San
one season only. " 
game format, added Andy winners, six wild would be Diego was scheduled off last switching the Reid of cards and our entire postsea­to schedule most of the poten-week. So the Chargers would games called PaulTagliabue Philadelphia, son format intact. Several tial playoff teams for Saturday, have ended the season havingoff last week­another team options have been presented to Jan. 5, then play the wild-card played 16 games while the 0th­
NFL commissioner
end to the that might be us in recent days that would games on Wednesday Jan. 9. ers would have played 15. weekend of affected. ''I'd help us accomplish that. If we The next round would be And a third seemed to be that Jan. 5-7, when hate to dis­cannot resolve our entire post­played Jan. 13-14 with the most players and coaches wild-card games had been rupt the playoffs in that situa­season lineup in a satisfactory championship games as sched-wanted a full schedule. scheduled. tion.... I'm sure they'll come fashion. we then will go to a uled on Jan. 20 -most likely But the players and coaches 
But he said the committee is up with an answer for it. They system of six division winners with four exhausted teams. also wanted a full playoffstill looking at ways to keep the understand the importance of and two wild-card teams for A third would be to play the schedule. If options can't be normal complement of 12 play­the playoffs." this one season only." title games on Super Bowl worked out, however. theyoff teams rather than eight. When the teams return, they One option would be to move Sunday, Jan. 27, as a double-won't get that. 
THE 
BK@ 11:53am (C) Yahoo!
36.75 .-..--...--.---.--....--..---,,....., 36~50 
...·/if.\·............... 
36.25 
~-,./
36.00 
35.75 ..........' __________..____.,__, 
8-Sep 10am 12pm 2pm 4pm 
AT,LSTREET FORU 


An excellent way to learn about opportunities on Wall Street! ! ! 
Wednesday, September 19, 2001 Mendoza College of Business, Jordan Auditorium _ 
Students of ALL majors, degrees, colleges, and years 
•5:00pm -7:00pm Presentations: 
Domestic Asset Allocation Process Global Asset Allocation Process Anatomy ofan Initial Public Offering Mergers & Acquisitions A Public Debt Deal A Highly~Leveraged Private Equity Deal 
•7:00 -7:30 Pizza 

•Sponsored by the Mendoza College of Business •7:30-9:00 Individual Company Breakouts and The Career Center 
l 
C 
' 
•
. 
C 
. . . . . . . .
' . 
. . . . .
I 
' 
. . . ....
. 
I 
_J ' 
Wednesday, September 19, 2001 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS 
NHL 
Fans find very tight security 
• Hockey pre­season opens with fan searches, extra police presence 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Nine blocks east of the White House, 13 rows above the ice, a fan held up a banner that read: "I will not fear!" 
Flags were welcome, bags were not, and security con­
cerns overshad­owed J aromir Jagr's debut as the Washington Capitals played the Philadelphia Flyers in an exhibition game Tuesday night. 
It was the first professional sports event in the nation's cap­ital since last week's terrorist Ward, of Millersville, Md., said just before he entered the MCI Center. "Coming up out of the Metro station, you see K-9 units and bomb-sniffing dogs. You're not used to seeing that around here. 
"You're used to seeing police, but only the ones bust­ing the guys scalping tickets." 
The 20,000-seat arena was only one-third full during the first period, despite the first appearance by Jagr and the team's offer of free admission to police, firefighters and mili­tary personnel and their fami­lies. 
"I feel 
safer here 
''Coming up out ofthe than any­Metro station. you see K-w h e r e 
else," said
9 units and bomb sniffing 
K i m dogs. You 're not used to Lanham of Leesburg,
seeing that around here ... 
Va., after her pock­Chris Ward etbook was 
hockey fan searched at the turnstile. 
Placards on the entrance 
attacks in New York and just a doors noted the "unusual cir­few miles away at the cumstances" of the evening.Pentagon. Anyone who brought a back­
"It's a different feel," Chris pack, suitcase and other large 
bag had to use the claim­check service. The FBI and Secret Service said metal detectors weren't necessary. 
"We're in Washington, D.C., and since we built this build­ing, we've had a completely open line of communication between law enforcement, the FBI, the Secret Service," MCI Center spokesman Matt Williams said. "So that works to our advantage. We're pre­pared for these kind of things already. We've just increased that." 
Just inside the entrance. Capitals owners Ted Leonsis and Raul Fernandez stepped onto the concourse to greet fans and pose for pictures, as they often do. Fernandez wel­comed the fact that "people are getting back to their nor­mal lives." 
Fans were given cardboard American flags, although many were already dressed in red, white and blue. Collections boxes were stuffed with relief fund contributions. 
There was a moment of silence before the faceoff. As the colors were presented for the anthem, a fan broke the quiet by yelling, "Yeah, America!" 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Mariners lose third baseman to ribcage injury 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE 
The playoff-bound Seattle Mariners will be without regular third baseman David Bell for at least a week because of a strained left rib cage. 
Mark McLemore was in the lineup in place of Bell when the Mariners returned to play Tuesday night against Anaheim at Safeco Field. 
"We think it's going to be a week-to-10 days," manager Lou Piniella said before the game. "Hopefully, it's not longer than that." 
Bell, who has started 117 games at third for Seattle this sea­son, was injured swinging at a pitch in a workout Friday. 
The Mariners, whose magic number to clinch the AL West was two going into Tuesday night, are in no hurry to rush Bell back into the lineup. 
"You've got to be careful with those things. A strain can become a pull and a pull is usually a month," Piniella said. "We're going to shut him down as much as we can and have him get his treatments so he can get well." 
In addition to McLemore, the Mariners can use Charles Gipson, rookie Ramon Vazquez and Ed Sprague at third, Piniella said. 
Bell is hitting .260 with 15 home runs and 64.RBis in 132 games. He said his injury was insignificant compared to last week's terror attacks in New York and Washington, D.C. 

This is your opportunity to meet with 20 ofthe hottest vendors in town! 
Representatives from t-shirt companies, printing, food, DJ's and other companies will be in attendance marketing their services to your group. 



', 
A Wednesda~ September 19 V 
) 
5:80 PM -7:80 PM 
l:j 
~ 
'\ 
LaFortune Ballroom
•) 
,i 
'J 
~ DON!IT MISS IT! 
1 } 
; 
'.I.
I 
~ 
~ ,, FYI! t, . Food Service Training will be offered at 5:00 PM in Montgomery
'.. 
~ 
Theater.
X 
~ ~ ~ 
1 
~ 
3 
) 
,,! 
<; 
~ 
~ 
y 
i 
~ ,' 
i 
i 
r~ , , , , , , ., 
'
. 
Wednesday, September 19, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Mississippi State dedicates performance to America 
Associated Press 
STARKVILLE, Miss. 
Josh Morgan will take the field for 
Mississippi State on Thursday night with 
an extra sense of responsibility. 
"We're going to be playing for a lot of people, not just Mississippi State," the junior safety said. "We're going to try to put on a good show, and a good showing of ... Americans, period." 
Major college football will make a star­spangled return when No. 17 Mississippi State and No. 18 South Carolina meet in the first Division I-A game since last week's terrorist attacks. 
Fans will be given small American flags as they enter Scott Field and the players will wear a flag decal on their helmets. 
"Football is an American game," Mississippi State defensive back Korey Banks said. 
The game will be nationally televised by ESPN. 
"Everybody's going to be tuning in that cares nothing about football or about Mississippi State or South Carolina or any of this," Morgan said. "They just kind of want to see what's going on. And that's a good thing." 
South Carolina safety Jonathan Martin said the game is a chance for players to send a message to those responsible for the tragedy. 
"I think a lot of guys maybe just want to play hard and show some emotion because we want to show that we're not going to let these terrorists attacks destroy us," he said. "We're just going to 
keep going on and keep on living life the 
way we know how to live it." 
Morgan admitted concentrating on 
football won't be easy. 
"As far as the football game, it's going 
to be very important that we kind of try 
to put all of this to the back," he said. 
"But it's going to be very hard." 
Mississippi State sports information 
director Mike Nemeth said the school 
has ordered 30,000 American flags. 
"The pregame is going to be a little dif­
ferent, a little more patriotic," he said. 
There will be a moment of silence and 
the national anthem will be performed 
with both teams on the field, Nemeth 
said. Usually the teams charge on to the 
field after the anthem. 
"God Bless America" will also be per­formed before the game and a statement of support and sympathy for the victims will be read over the public address sys­tem. 
Security will also be beefed up. The parking lots closest to the stadium will be closed. No backpacks will be allowed in the stadium and purses will be subject to search. 
That could curtail the signature cow­bells at Scott Field that are banned by the university, but routinely sneaked into the stadium by fans. 
Nemeth said the university will not try to tone down the fans' enthusiasm. 
"I think there's going to be some nat­ural tempering anyway, at least at the outset," he said. "It's still a sporting event and we want to carry on that atmosphere." ' 
RP 
Nebraska -Rice contest on high security alert 
Associated Press 
LINCOLN, Neb. 
Nebraska quarterback Eric Crouch tried to put college football in proper perspective. 
The fourth-ranked Cornhuskers will return to play against Rice on Thursday night, the first night of NCAA Division I-A football since the terrorist attacks. 
"I know that it will be very good 
for people to come to a game and think about Nebraska football for three hours while we're playing," Crouch said Tuesday. 
'Tm sure after the game everybody might be glued to the TV again. I'm not sure how long this is going to last." 
"/ know it will be very National League good for people to come baseball games 
played in front of
toa game and think 
some surprisingly
about Nebraska football." large crowds. Fans donned red, white and blue and
Eric Crouch 
waved flags as they
Nebraska quarterback 
returned to the 
No. 18 South Carolina visits No. 17 Mississippi State in the only other game Thursday night. No Division I­A team has played since last Tuesday's attacks, giving players, coaches and fans a sports-free weekend to absorb what happened. 
"It's been hard preparing with everything that's been going on. No doubt it's going to be emotional," Huskers offensive lineman Dave Volk said. "You've got to come out 
and do your job. That's pretty much 
what  everybody's  got  to  start  
doing."  
Nebraska (3-0) didn't even  prac­ 

tice Friday or Saturday, the day they were originally supposed to play the Owls. 
"It was strange. No football to watch. No game to play. It was dif­ferent," Volk said. "I think it was the right thing to do in retrospect. Just let everybody get things figured out and settle down." The American sports world 
resumed Monday 
night with six 


Where.•• 
Why: 
~~ 
ballpark. 
Although Thursday's game is expected to be Nebraska's 243rd consecutive sell­out, the atmosphere will be decided­ly different than a football Saturday in Lincoln. 
It's Nebraska's first home game on a weeknight and tighter security is planned because of the attacks. Fans could be searched as the enter Memorial Stadium, which has been closed to the public since the attacks. 


Sign Up on the Internet NOW @ www. LaurenStudios.eom Portrait dates extended, through September 28 
RTRAIT 

•' 
Class of 2002 Now through September 28 La Fortune 108 To Be In the 2002 
Dome 
::::--_ 
Observer alums, come to The Observer's 35th anniversairy. E-mail Obsreunion@hotmail.com for details. 
page 20 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Yankees return to play, 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
After eight days of unimagin­able horror in the city where they live and play, the New York Yankees found some solace by doing what they do best. 
"I think everybody was ready to move on," Yankees manager Joe Torre said after New York returned to the baseball field Tuesday night and routed the Chicago White Sox 11-3 in a game filled with displays of patriotism and solidarity. 
''Baseball is what we do, it's our form of entertainment. It's our form or relief," Torre said, admitting he 


Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 
Los Angeles Kings mourned the loss of scouts Ace Bailey and Mark Bavis on Tuesday night before their exhibition opener against Anaheim. 
A moment of silence was observed for Bailey and Bavis, passengers on American Airlines Flight 175, and the other victims of the terrorist attacks. 
The Kings will wear black armbands throughout the sea­son to honor Bailey, the team's scouting director. and Bavis, an amateur scout. 
"That makes it hit a little closer to home," defenseman Mathieu Schneider said. 
f 
"The whole country's been hit hard and seems to be rally­ing, but I don't believe that we can get back to the way we were for a long time -the safety we felt and the comfort we felt about being Americans 
1i '! 
~ 
( I 
I 
\ 
was choked up 
"Baseball is what we do.
during a coach Lee 
pregame cere­it·s our form of Mazzilli salut­mony. entertainment. It's our ed the flag. 
"I told the Then it was
form ofrelief"
players we're time for base­not here to save ball, for the civilization, Joe Torre Yankees their we're here to first game
Yankees manager
do our part and maybe we can subtract from the grief." 
Their city reeling from terror­ist attacks, the Yankees played like the champions they· are, winning easily behind the strong pitching of Orlando Hernandez and three seventh-inning homers, including a grand slam from Jorge Posada. 
"It's tough to smile, but a good couple of games will put some smiles on peoples' faces," Posada said. "It was very emo­tional the whole game." 
All through the night, the United States and New York were saluted, from the small flags handed out to fans, to signs like "Chicago Luvs N.Y.," "God bless America" and "Baseball 
•
Will 11-3 
Has Players, America Has Heroes," to a continuous flow of music over the public address system. 
As firefighters and policemen ringed the infield and the teams lined up along the foul lines applauding them, Torre and White Sox manager Jerry Manuel were presented candles by officers during the pregame ceremony. 
"Seeing the firemen and policemen, they are people we take for granted all the time," Torre said. "It was very emo­tional. I had to come in and try to throw some water on my face." 
While the national anthem was 
being sung, New York native and Yankees first base 
since Sept. 9 
and first since the attacks two days later changed the world. 
Their three-game series at Yankee Stadium with the White Sox -who were staying in mid­town Manhattan during the attacks -was postponed. 

The Yankees -who visited an armory where grief-stricken family members were trying to locate missing loved ones ­were cheered by the Comiskey Park crowd when introduced. 
And when they took the field, 
they didn't show any rust. 
" We went out there and it felt kind of weird in the beginning. But it felt really good to go out there and start playing," Bernie Williams said. 
NHL 
Kings mourn scouts killed in NYC attack 
and living here. I have to question whether that will ever be the same. The images we've seen for the last week will always been in our minds." 
The Kings donated $150,000 from the net proceeds of the game to the relief fund for the families of the New York City police and firefighters killed during their rescue efforts. The team also raised money for the fund Monday with a charity golf tournament. 
Everyone entering the arena had their possessions checked and were scanned by hand­held metal detectors. 
"I never dreamed it would come to something like that, but you won't hear me com­plaining about it, that's for sure." Anaheim's Marty Mclnnis said. "You definitely feel safer. It's something that I think is going to have to be done for a while until every­thing settles down and things get as back to normal as can 
..
b
e. 

WWW.teachf ora mi~rf6;a.org 
.._____________________________________ 

Wednesday, September 19, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS 


ACUPULCO OR CANCUN FOR THE WEEKEND? 
No problem if you study during the week at Notre Dame's International Study Program in 
PUEBLA, MEXICO 
INFORMATION SESSION 
Thursday, September 20, 2001 
5:00 PM 
217 DeBartolo 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: OCT. 1, 2001 FOR SPRING 2002 DEC. 1, 2001 FOR F'2002, AY 2002-2003 APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE: www.nd.edu/~intlstud/ 
Physics taught in the fall semester for Pre­Professional Students 
Sports is the coolest call 1-4543 to work 
page 21 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Mets salute rescue workers with 7-5 victory over Pirates 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH 
After tipping their caps to New York's brave rescue workers, the New York Mets felt a more fitting tribute would be to wear their hats. 
Mike Piazza hit a two-run homer in the eighth inning and the Mets, wearing caps in honor of New York's firefighters, police and emergency medical workers, beat the Pittsburgh Pirates 7-5 Tuesday night. 
The Mets came back for their 10th victory in 11 road games. At 73-73, the defending NL champions reached the .500 mark for the first time since the opening week of the season and moved within six games of NL East leader Atlanta, which lost 4-3 in Philadelphia. 
The Mets wore the special hats Monday night for pregame cere­monies, then got permission from Major League Baseball to wear them for a game. A Mets season ticket holder, Edmond D. Farrell of Mineola, N.Y., wrote general manager Steve Phillips, suggesting the caps as a worthy tribute. 
"It's still tough to go out and focus when your hearts and minds are somewhere else, but we've got a job to do," said Joe McEwing, who homered and drove in two runs. "Hopefully, we put some smiles on a lot of New Yorkers' faces." 
New York trailed 2-0 and 3-1 after giving away two runs on errors and another on a pair of wild pitches by Kevin Appier, but came back to win its 19th in 24 games by hitting four home runs. 
Todd Zeile added a solo shot in the three-run eighth as Omar Olivares (6-8) allowed homers to two of his first three batters. Matt Lawton homered in the ninth off Rich Loiselle. · 
Maybe the Mets were responding to the welcomed news they will play their three-game weekend series against Atlanta as scheduled in Shea Stadium, the home ballpark they haven't seen since the day before Labor Day. 
Since then, they have won eight of nine during an extended road trip that has included two trips to Pittsburgh, one in which they didn't play a game, and a bus ride back home to tragedy-stricken New York, again without playing. 
For the first time in their two games back from baseball's week­long layoff resulting from the terrorist attacks, the Mets reacted with considerable emotion, jumping off their dugout bench in cele­bration of Piazza's drive. 
"There's been a lot of down emotion, but it's OK to let it out and turn it around,Omanager Bobby Valentine said. 
Piazza said, "I'm really glad to see the emotion high, that's the way we've been for the last 25 or so games. We've been really fired up, it's been kind of a daily thing to see who is going to get the big hit today." 
Before Tuesday, the Pirates hadn't allowed a homer in a season­high six consecutive games. "It hurts bad to lose a game like that, so I guess we're back,OPirates manager Lloyd McClendon said. 
McClendon said he liked the Piazza vs. Olivares matchup in the eighth, even though Olivares hadn't pitched in 10 days. Piazza seemed fooled for an instant by Olivares' breaking ball away, then hit it deep into the left-field seats for his 32nd homer. 
Jerrod Riggan {3-2) got the victory with 1 1/3 relief innings despite giving up Brian Giles' 34th homer in the eighth. 
Rick White got the final two outs in that inning, and Armando Benitez pitched the ninth for his 40th save in 42 attempts. He is one save away from matching his club record of 41 set last sea­
son. 
The Pirates lost their 90th game of the season, the third time in 
four years they have done so. 
The Mets overcame a sloppy start in which the Pirates get only one hit, Jason Kendall's leadoff single, in a two-run first. Throwing errors by second baseman Edgardo Alfonzo and first 
baseman Zeile led to the runs. McEwing's seventh homer cut it to 2-1 in the third, but Rob Mackowiak, who drove in two runs, hit his third homer in the fourth. The Pirates added another run in the fifth, again after a Kendall leadoff single, on the two Kevin Appier wild pitches 

.1' Wet Your Whistle! 

(and stuff your face) 
DAILY SPECIALS ~ 
Rated # 1 Hot Wings I),\\ · in the area 
Wednesday: 
$1 so Domestic Bottles of Beer Family Night -Kids Eat Free* 
•one frea meal for each adult meal purchased 
• 




page 22 
Golf 
continued from page 28 
"It was so great," Hathaway said. "It's my best score so far this season." 
Despite their solid finish, the Medalist golf course proved to be a challenge for the Belles. Compared to the relatively open Olivet golf course, the Medalist course had a lot of undulation on the green and several longer holes, Hathaway said. 
"It's a very challenging course," Pekarek said. "You have to place the ball very well or you can get yourself into a lot of trouble." 
Supporting Hathaway in her second place finish and shooting low scores for the Belles were freshman Stefanie Simmerman, sophomore Liz Hanlon, senior Megan Keleher and senior Molly Lee. Simmerman shot 89, for a 7th place finish, followed by Hanlon who totalled 91 strokes to tie for ninth place with Hope's Emily Colenbrander, Marianne Brown and Albion's Anna Watkins. 
The Belles will tee off again on Saturday at Adrian College at the Lenawee Country Club for the third and final MIAA tournament before the conference champi­onship. Although the Flying Dutch bested the Belles on Tuesday, the Belles still have their sights set on the MIAA title at the end of the season. 
"Everyone is feeling very confi­dent about being able to take the championship," Hathaway said. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 


NELLIE WILLIAMS/The Observer 
)1 
I/ '('~ r 
., 
''; 
i 
r 
·5 ~ 
·,1 ( J
), . 
') 
~ l
f
'1 
(, 
'· 
Sophomore Liz Hanlon drives the ball In a recent practice. The 
Belles took third In the MIAA at Tuesday's Medalist Invitational, with a team score of 363. 

produced by ProShow and Celebrated Events :.,,~,_-? 
september 23c§~?~ry center 
12:00 -5:00 pm General admission, $5 per person at the door 
10:00 am -5:00 pm VIP admission, $15 per person, advance sale only; includes luncheon with food stations and strolling fashion show 
reoister to win! 
a honeymoor 1 p3ckage sponsored t?y Premier Travel a Syperclubs honeymoon package sponsored byTravelmore 
contact 
Jessica at ProShow, 271-7469 for VIP tickets and more information 
The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 19, 2001 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Terrorist attacks prompt big changes at stadiums 
Associated Press 
The rah-rah partyers who fill college foot­ball's enormous stadiums are in for big changes. 
Coolers and picnic baskets, even coats and blankets. will be searched or banned altogeth­er, turning quick trips through turnstiles into long waits at security checkpoints for crowds as large as the more than 100,000 expected at Michigan. 
"We're trying to make people understand that things are going to be a little different," Mississippi State associate athletic director Duncan McKenzie said. 
Fans attending the Bulldogs' 
At Michigan Stadium ­
game when major college foot­"ft is difficult to make 
with a capacity of
ball resumes Thursday will be policies that are 
107,501, the largest site
the first to notice the difference. 
applicable to the of a game Saturday ­
Everyone else will find out later 
the Wolverines will have
in the week. broad membership. ,, 
U.S. flags stitched on
Items such as video cameras, 
their uniforms when they
cans or glass bottles, coolers, 
Wally Renfro face Western Michigan.
umbrellas, noisemakers and 
NCAA spokesman American flags will 
purses will hold fans up at some 
games. 
In Ann Arbor. Mich., planes won't be allowed to fly over the Wolverines' stadium Saturday. 
There will be differences on the field, too, including teams wearing U.S. flags on hel­mets. 
All of last week's Division I-A football games were postponed or canceled because of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. Major league base­ball resumed Monday night and the NFL returns Sunday, both under much tighter security. 
"You watched the emotion that major league baseball brought back to the country a little bit," said Ohio State coach Jim Tressel, whose Buckeyes play UCLA at the Rose Bowl on Saturday. "We have the good fortune at Ohio State to bring some more emotion and to serve as an energy source for our country. 
"What venue would you rather have it be in than before 90,000 or 100,000 and on nation­al TV? I think it's going to be an exciting thing and a way we can do some good by the way we play." 
Football stadiums dwarf arenas used in the NHL (where the biggest in the United States is Chicago's 20,500-seat United Center) and the NBA (the Spurs play before up to a league­high 34,215 at the Alamodome). 
Unlike in the NFL, there won't be a stan­dard set of security measures at college games. 
"With 976 different institutions," NCAA spokesman Wally Renfro said, "it is difficult to make policies that are applicable to the broad 
membership." 
replace Big Ten banners 
along the stadium's rim. 
"Our fans should expect some_ possible delays, especially if they continue to come in at the last minute," said Bill Bess, Michigan's director of public safety. "We would like fans to get in the stadium sooner than they have in the past." 
The Federal Aviation Administration on Tuesday granted Michigan's request to bar flights within a 1-mile radius of the stadium and up to an altitude of 3,000 feet. That also covers blimps. 
Other schools, including Penn State and 
Wisconsin , ------------it 
asked the FAA to keep air­
Fresco
planes from flying near sta­
Catalino's Trauoria
diums during 
Downtown South Bend 
games. 
create@screenblast.com 
Change me. Crop me. Control me. Manipulate me any way you want. With the Screen blast Creation Suite'" of editing tools and personal Stash,"' you're not just a viewer, 
you're a creator. Now get busy. 
Wednesday, September 19, 200 I page 23 
The Observer . SPORTS 
The team came together without one of their senior
Volleyball 
leaders on the court. 
well," Brown said. 
Also seeing significant play­ing time were freshmen Leah Nedderman and Kelly Corbett. Outside hitter Nedderman played in the final two games, spiking for her first career kill in game three. Corbett, a mid­dle blocker, added her first career kill in the same game. 
"I think that especially 
before we get into Big East I want them to feel comfortable on the court," Brown said. "The more we can get them on the court, the more comfort­able they're going to feel." 
Brown thought her team played well in all aspects, but especially on defense. 
Notre Dame totaled 53 digs to Valparaiso's 38 and also fin­ished with seven blocks. 
"It's a combination of good serving, good blocking and good defense," Brown said. "I thought our defense was good tonight. We really scrambled a lot, that was good." 
Contact Noah Amstadter at amstadter. l@nd.edu. 
continued from page 28 
three. 
"We started off a little tense, not playing to the top of our game, and then we realized that this is a team we should absolutely dominate," Goralski said. "I think we came out 
Kristy Kreher, the preseason Big East Player of the Year, totaled one kill to three hitting errors on five attempts in game one and didn't see the court in the final two games. 
"She just didn't play very well the first game," Brown said. "That's not characteristic 
of her and 
certainly not
and really 
"/ think we came out and 
what we
played like a 
really played like a team expect."
team the last 
In Kreher's
two games." the last two games." 
place, 6-foot-
Notre Dame 
4 sophomore
was able to 
Malinda Goralski 
Katie Neff
put together 
middle blocker played the
scoring 
final two
streaks in 
games at
games two 
opposite. Neff, who played well 
and three that they couldn't in 
at Valparaiso as a freshman
the night's first game. With 
last season, added three kills
sophomore Christa Moen serv­
on nine attempts with no
ing, Notre Dame scored five 
errors.
consecutive points late in game 
"Katie Neff came in games
two and four in a row early in 
two and three and played very
game three. 
HELP!HELP!HELP!HELP! 
Student Activities has immediate 
openings for ; 
Building Set Up Crew 
Flexible hours!! 
Please Recycle The Observer. 
Celebrating their 38th season, Ririe-Woodbury Dance Company is heralded as a powerful force in modern dance. 
Thursday, Sept. 20, 2001 at 7:30 PM O'Laughlin Auditorium 
;,...,,....,,,..(.,i.t•~ 
FOR TICKET INFORMATION CALL THE Mgf~{-',fk/SAINT MARY'S BOX OFFICE AT 284-4626 ~.'o'::.r"~,,. 

Irish senior middle blocker Malinda Goralski hits against Valparaiso Tuesday. Goralski had a very strong effort, putting down 15 kills in 21 swings to lead Notre Dame to a 3-0 victory. 

page 24 Wednesday, September 19, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS 
SMC SOCCER 
l 
j
Belles hope for fast start against Hornets 
I 
l 

By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 
Victory has been elusive for the Belles this season. Although they have scored first in both MIAA games they have played this season, they have been unable to come home with a vic­tory. 
But the Belles have left their mark on the MIM and they plan to do that again today as they take on the Hornets of Kalamazoo. 
"We've already made great strides in the conference," senior captain Katy Robinson said. "And so many people weren't expecting us to come out as strong. We're going out today to prove ourselves in the conference." 
The Hornets finished last season in second place with only two MIAA loss­. es all season and won their first MIAA 
match of the season last week. 
"[Kalamazoo] is a very good team," junior captain Lynn Taylor said. "They're very physical. They're very skilled." 
Despite the challenge the Hornets present, returning players are looking forward to the rematch. 
"This is going to be a very good game [and] I'm very excited to play them again," Taylor said. 
Led by sophomore defender Jessica Geiger, who was named MIAA defen­sive player of the week last week, the Hornets' defense promises to be formi­dable competition for the Belles. But the biggest challenge will come from Kalamazoo's speed. 
"They have a lot of very fast girls and that happens to be the place where we struggle the most," Taylor said. 
Following Saturday's loss to Calvin, the Belles were looking to improve on speed, or find a new game strategy that would allow them to overcome opponents' speed. 
Saturday's second half proved that they could do that. Reverting to a less aggressive defense and focusing on blocking the passing lanes, the Belles managed to hold the Knights of Calvin to only one goal in the second half. They hope to do the same today. 
"We've really run a high pressure defense for the last couple of games and now we're more or less working a low pressure defense that will work more as a zone," Robinson said. 
In addition to dealing with Kalamazoo's speed, Saint Mary's will be looking out for the team's physical play. During the Belles' first MIAA match up against Hope, many mem­bers of the young team got their first taste of serious college play. Today, however, they will enter the game with more experience. 
"I think that [Hope] being the first collegiate match, [the freshmen] were surprised at how physical college soc­
~ 
What does the. Church teach? Why does itl matter? Have questions and need a place to 
\) 
ask them? Each one credit course in the series "Know 
~~ 
Your Catholic Faith" will reflect on a central feature ofthe Catholic faith, so that students come away with a clear idea of what the Church holds on these topics as well as a basic theological and personal understanding of them. The courses will be based on the Catechism of the Catholic Church plus other
I:
{' 
pertinent texts, supplemented by personal reflection 
,, 
•' 
and experiential learning where appropriate. These courses should meet the needs of those students who 
' 
w
I·,,
;) 
know little or nothing about the faith, as well as those 
/i ..,., 
who are familiar with the faith but do not feel they 
ti 
have a clear grasp of certain features of Christian 
cer was," Taylor said. "I think that they're getting used to the style of play and we're stepping it up physically and mentally." 
In addition to additional experience, the Belles are counting on team chem­istry to pull them through the game. 
"I think that we have such a young team and that we have a lot of high expectations already as a team and we have great team strength and unity," Robinson said. "Coming out as a team can win a game on any given day." 
If Saint Mary's is going to win, they're going to have to win without senior Adrian Kirby, who was injured during Saturday's game and will not be able to play today. 
In the Belles' last two games, they have scored first. Robinson credits that first score partly to the fact that other MIAA teams aren't expecting a quick start from the Belles. The Belles are looking to come out strong again today. 
"I think [scoring first] is a result of the other team not expecting us to come out as strong as we have," Robinson said. "Our goal and our strategy is high pressure the first 10 minutes, the last 10 minutes. That's our strategy. That's how we play." 
The game gets under way today at 4 
p.m. at the Saint Mary's soccer fields. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 


A New Series of One-Credit Courses offered by the Department of Theology 

lli 

1'
(; 
?? 
(r
/,' 
{'
(' 
It 
r II lf ti,'
?Ititi 
~~' 
(ti 
g~ I' 
(. 
~? 
// 
(
g
//
/
t.. 
II 
t . 
I I 

t 
l 
('
l 
r 
I 
i 
·, I 
I 
I 
Ii 
I I 
,1t I 
!~ 
I 
i 
doctrine. The courses will be presented in a variety in cooperation with the Office of Campus Ministry of formats and venues. 
Courses available this Fall: 
The Sacraments 
Theo. 3408. 1 credit. S/U 

Prayer
Instructor: Pamela Jackson Theo. 340A. 1 credit. SIU
Wednesdays, 5:30 p.m. -7:35 p.m., 
Instructor: Lawrence Cunningham 
Oct. 3, 10, 17, 31, Nov. 7, 14 Sundays, 6:15 p.m.-8:20 p.m., 
Coleman Morse Center Sept. 30, Oct. 7, 14, Nov. 4, 11, 18 Coleman Morse Center 
Creation 
Theo. 340C. 1 credit. S/U 
For further information about registering/or these courses,
Instructor: John Cavadini 
contact Dorothy Anderson in the Theology Department. 

._,_: ·ii Mondays, 6:00 p.m.-8:05 p.m., 
Syllabi for the courses can be obtained at the Theology Dept.
Oct. 8, 15, 29, Nov. 5, 12, 20 
main office, or at Campus Ministry main office,
Keough Hall Common Room 
approximately two weeks before the beginning ofthe class. 


ti ' 
; ~ 
r 
! 
Wednesday, September 19, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Irish return to field following hiatus 
... 

upset against No. 5 Furman, but
By BRYAN KRONK 
the Paladins squeaked out with a 3­
Sports Writer 
2 overtime victory. That loss was followed two daysThe Notre Dame men's soccer later with a 4-0 defeat against 
team hopes to shake off the cob­No.16-ranked Clemson. webs and return to its winning Since that time, the Irish have fol­
ways tonight as it takes on regional lowed a regular practice schedule,rival Cleveland State tonight at 7 participating in an intersquad 90­
p.m. at Alumni Field. 
minute sim­
The Irish are coming ulated game
"Our time off[between
off a 10-day hiatus from 
in place of 
competition, as the two games] shouldn't really the two games the Irish were affect us ... games that originally scheduled to 
were called 
play Friday and Sunday off. were called off due to the Filippo Chillemi "I thoughtevents of Sept. 11. 
"Our time off [between games] shouldn't really affect us," Irish midfield­er Filippo Chillemi said. "We've been training hard the entire time so we would be ready to play." 
The Irish are also hoping to rebound from two losses against ranked opponents at the Furman Invitational in South Carolina on Sept. 7. The Irish almost pulled an 
2 MILLION INVESTORS. 80 YEARS' EXPERIENCE. 
1 WEIRD NAME. 
TIAA-CREF has a long history of managing portfolios for the world's sharpest minds. Contact us for ideas, strategies, and, at the very least, proper pronunciation. 
TIAA-CREF.org or call 1.800.842.2888 
Munagmg money for r,eople
(II 
witli ollier thi11gs to think about.w 
RETIREMENT I INSURANCE MUTUAL FUNDS COLLEGE SAVINGS : TRUSTS INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT 
TtAA.Ck[f Indy dua ,m,J It,,: !11:rn.,. S1:h11.eti htC. ;md Tr;.,::t..:r, P,~~•,1M lm,·•,·01-.. S•'f•' t.i"\ I,,:_ th'r h,1•c •·.n uc• ,~.., ~,,,..1,1• '.·· ·:,,•, 2fl01 f,,,.du'.r"-ht••ittMut•~ <111d Auhu '.)' A..,.. ,ll it: ,,.,..(,1 q:t· ffo! r1·ru:n.. [,1;1 ',, f 111·d i11AA (R[f L f\,•1,; \',:,iii.. r.. v. f:R 20 
midfielder 
after the Furman game that we were 
almost there," head coach Bobby Clark said, "but Clemson took us to school. They're a good team, and we've got to recognize when a team is putting pressure on us like Clemson did. These teams put us to the test, and we didn't pass the test. I think we can do better." 
The key to an Irish victory, according to Chillemi, is to main­tain focus, something that the Irish did not do in its loss to Clemson. 
"I think in the first game [against Furman] we played very well, but we just got a little unlucky," Chillemi said. "In the Clemson game we just weren't focused, and I think that's what we need to work on heading into our next game is to come out and be more focused." 
While some may dismiss the importance of this game, as the Irish have beaten the Vikings in both previous matchups, Clark isn't taking anything for granted. 
"This is a key game," Clark said. "Our boys are just excited to be playing." 
Chillemi echoed Clark's senti­ments, added. "They [Cleveland State] are a good team, but we're confident that we can come out and play a good game." 
Contact Bryan Kronk at bkronk@nd.edu. 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Batteast named to freshman All­America team 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame freshman forward Jacqueline Batteast has been named a first-team freshman All-American by the Women's Basketball News Service, it was announced this week. The five-play­er squad was released in conjunction with the WBNS preseason Top 25 poll and other All-America teams. 
It's the second preseason honor for Batteast, who also has been tabbed as one of the top 21 "New Players of Impact" in 2001-02, according to Women's College Hoops.com. 
Batteast ranked as one of the top players ever to come out of the South Bend area. As a senior at Washington High School, she aver­aged career bests of 26.0 points and 16.0 rebounds per game, along with 4.4 blocks, 3.2 assists and 2.6 steals. The 6-1 forward earned first-team Parade All-America honors and also was named to the Naismith, Nike and Street & Smith's All-America teams. In addition, she was an honorable mention All-America selection by the WBCA and a finalist for Naismith and Indiana Miss Basketball awards. A three-time first-team all-state pick, Batteast was also named one of the top 25 players in the nation by USA Today and she played in three different All-Star events • the Indiana-Kentucky, Indiana North~South and South Bend Tribune all•st?'r contests. 
Riehle Field to be dedicated Friday 
Special to The Observer 
The R~ehle Playing Field, newly named after Notre Dame National Monogram Club execu­tive director and athletic depart­ment chaplain Father James Riehle, will be dedicated at approximately 1 :45 p.m. Friday. 
The dedication will take place on the intramural field, located directly east of Stepan Center, immediately following the Note Dame Football Kickoff Luncheon in the Joyce Center. Original announcement of the field nam­ing came back in April. 
Among those involved with the dedication program will be cur­rent Monogram Club president Jim Carroll, University director of athletics Kevin White and other University and athletics department officials. 
A 1949 Notre Dame graduate, Hiehle is in his 26trh year as athletic department chaplain. He has been the Monogram Club's executive director since 1978. He previously served the University as dean of students (1967-73), chairman of the board of the University Club (1971-77), and director of ener­gy conservation (1973-93). He was rector of Pangborn Hall through 1985. 

·~ r­
,\ \ ,\
( '\ 
I~ 
\ '\
\ ;,\
I,, 
\ \ '\ \\ 
\ \\ Ir \~\ 
\ ~ .'
)\l 
\ \ 
\ ) 
\(r
\ i \ 
{f \\\ \( 
I\' 
\ \' 
\\I. 
\\\ 
', \' 
,r
\\ 
\' 
··\' '\' 
' I
\ .' '(
\ \ \ \\,' \\I 
\\' 
\ \' 
I\ 
w 
<v
\' 
r:\' 
\' 
\\'
\ \\ 1\' 
\ \.' 
\ ' 
H 
( : 
\\· 
T
t~ 
~r\' 
!\(, " 
\~~ 
\ ,'
\·,' 
\ l,'
H: 
w 
\\' 
~•\ 
('~ 
\ '~
.,, 
;\,', "{t. 
\' 
\' 
~ .~ 
,,r1,, 
\ ' 
{ \ 
! .1-., 

ill1 
,. ?, ,' 
n
. 
( 
~ 
i 
J/ }­
1: 
' < 
' \I 
I',, 
!
(\< 
~~; 
/~•'
l I 
(). 
l/; I'ic . 
(('
1<•'.
tr·,' 
f!l
i( 
lj 
r'/ Ir
()tts 
/l· 
;(~ 
?~I
(It ~I/
II( 
h'( (''
(1 
r~ 
~(( 
/iI 1 
/t 
/1( /t r 
/?
/i
/( 
I f 
' (
t (
I I 
( , 
( 
( . 
( I 
I 
1' 
{ I 
I , 
('
I ,I ,I ,
i 
I ,
I ,
l
:J I ,
i 
i'
I

f) I I, • 
I. . , 
I I ,
f//
I I , :I <~ , 
' It
<1 
Page 26 
The Observer . SPORTS 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Yanks, Bonds, Ripken back 
Associated Press 
Derek Jeter thinks baseball might be just what Americans need to take their minds off the horror. 
"It gives the fans a way to forget 
what's hap­pened for a few hours," he said. 
B e i n g back on the field helped Jeter and the rest of 

Jeter
the New 
Y o r k 
Yankees, too. 
The star shortstop singled, scored and turned a double play in the first inning Tuesday night in the Yankees' first game since the terrorist attacks exactly one week ear­lier. 
A day after baseball returned from a stx-day break with a patriotic flourish, major leaguers tried to put the focus back on the field. The crowd of around 20,000 at Comiskey Park -par for the White Sox -cheered when the players 
with "New York" across their 
uniforms lined up. 
Boston's Fenway Park was 
close to capacity, as always, 
and it was the same at 
Cleveland's Jacobs Field, 
where almost 35,000 fans 
showed up. 
San Francisco's Barry Bonds picked up his chase to break Mark McGwire's home run record and more than a dozen teams resumed pennant races. The Seattle Mariners had a chance to clinch the AL West. 
Every team was in action following six games Monday night, and there were reminders everywhere of the tragedies in New York and Washington. 
Perhaps the most compelling image came at PNC Park in Pittsburgh, where the Mets took the field wearing caps honoring New York's fire, police and emergency person­nel. On Monday night, the Mets wore them for pregame ceremonies -on Tuesday night, they got permission from major league baseball to wear them the whole game. 
Mets general manager Steve Phillips said a fan wrote him a letter suggesting the Mets 
wear the caps. 
"He said it would be a fitting 
tribute," Phillips said. 
Ripken, one of the sport's best ambassadors, said he'd do his best to entertain fans. 
"Certainly, I'm not so gung­
ho inside about baseball," the 
Baltimore star said before a 
game at Toronto. 
"When I think of baseball in the context of what's going on it does seem very insignifi­cant," he said. "I haven't got­ten really .motivated to play at this point, but we all should take great pride that we can be a small distraction, a small opportunity to smile and get away from what's going on." 
Boston catcher Scott Hatteberg hoped the games would provide some relief. 
"This is going to be helpful for a lot of people. Everybody needs a break, I know I need a break," he said before the Red Sox played Tampa Bay. 
"Baseball, as goofy as it sounds, is going to be part of the healing process. By doing this, I think we're helping out." 
Fans seemed to have no complaints about the increased security. 
Wednesday, September 19, 2001 
Irish to wear American flags on uniforms 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame football, volleyball and men's and women's soccer teams will wear American flags on their uniforms to remember the victims of last week's terrorist attacks in New York, Pennsylvania and \Vashington D.C.. as well as to honor and encourage those involved in the rescue efforts at these sites. 
The football team will wear an American flag decal next to the NCAA logo on the back of its helmets for the remainder of the season. Last week. the American Football Coaches Association asked all head coaches for an American flag be placed on 
"This was a way that we
helmets "in remembrance of the victims and in honor of could hono the victims of those who have worked so 
last week's tragedies."
valiantly to save lives in the days following the events of 
Kevin White
Sept. 11." 
Starting with . tonight's athletic director match against Valparaiso, the volleyball team will have a flag embroidered on its left sleeve. Both the men's and women's soccer teams will wear an embroidered flag on the front left chest of their uniforms for games this week at Alumni Field. 
"We felt by wearing American flags on our uniforms. this was a way that we could honor the victims of last week's tragedies around the country, as well as those still working at the scenes of these horrific events. \Ve want everyone to know they are con­stantly in our thoughts and prayers," Notre Dame director of ath­letics Kevin White said. 
CE 
RSK 
IVIenI.-.g I#:Is--~'!!!_~!.°!..~'!!'?~!.~~~-!!._~~-~------·---...... 
-------------------~------------------------------­
September -19, 2001 
1:00 P~ to 7:00 P~ 
Haggar College Center V\Telsh Room 
-------------------------··----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Cost: $85.00 
Payment Options: 
•  Bill to Student .Account  
(lv1ust present valid Student ID) 
- Credit Carel  _  
(Visa11  I\AasterCard or Arner1can Express)  

For more in-formation call: -,-877-4-VACCESS or visit our 11Vebsite: IN."IIVIIV. vaccess-corn 
Sponsored by: Saint /Vlary,s_College I-lea/th. & VVellness Services 
Wednesday, Sep ternber 19, 200 I 
The Observer . TODAY page 27 
-
RYAN
TOM KEELEY 
BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNINGHAM 


BILL AMEND 
MOM, I THINI< 
I CAN'T 8ELIEVE 
YOU FoRGoT To YOU'D LIE To A 
GIVE ME MY ooPS. 
WOMAN 0oPED HEY, I 
"What did I tell you about biting your fingernails too low?" 
CROSSWORD 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

360.K. 
40 Dress 41 Principle involving the temperature and density of 
gases 42 Cow, maybe 43 "_Cock-
Horse" (nursery 
rhyme) 
44 Michael of R.E.M. 
45 "_ Alibi" ( 1989 film) 
46 Cover 
47 Not merely ready 
48 Yearbook sect. 
49 Glitz 
50 Directors Ferrara and Gance 
DOWN 1 Actor 
Puzzle by Randolph Rou 
MacKenzie 12 "Auf Wiederseh'n 
2 Many a Sweetheart" 
sculpture 
singer, 1952 3 Poem part 
14"_ Rock" 4 Sabatini or Vilas (Muppet show) 5 Tooth quality 20 N.Y.P.O. description
6 Beautifully clear 23 Trying
7 Rounds 8 Shows 25 It's north of satisfaction Norway 9 Lay 26 Preferable for new swimmers 

29 Fast ones 36_of beans 37 Music's Mary J.
30 1920's Ouesenbergs 38 Place for a pin
34 _ National 39 Still-lite subjects 
Park (Mount Desert Island's 41 What a climber locale) may clutch 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1 ·900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best .of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
ACROSS 
1 Professional org. with the magazine Playback 
6 Collectible caps 
10 Part of many a discount store's name 
13 It may be blank 
14 Prefix in some alloy names 
15 Cain raiser 
16 Kingdom south of Samoa 
17 1994 Peace Prize winner 
18 Boulogne-sur­
19 Working cooperatively. 
21 Sammy Kaye's "_Big Girl Now" 
22 Downtown display 23 Blue-green 24 Hints 
25 Host of 1950's TV's "Twenty-One" 
26 Rubylike gems 
28 Eam and eam and earn 
29 Maya Lin or 
I. M. Pei 31 In the best shape 32 What ".00" may mean 33 Modern Greek 
name for Greece 34 Calculator job 35 Star quality 
hominid posture 27 Huns, e.g. 11 Some prayers 28 Formula 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

NOTRB DAAfE Athletics tltis Week 
~J VOLLEYBALL ~J Tues. vs. ralparaiso @ 1 pm 
* 
Chance to win t-shirts, gift certificates, and Adidas gear!!! 

* 
Serving Contest sponsored by Between the Buns! 


HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: James Spader, David Bryan, Garth Brooks, Miguel Fer­rer, Gay Talese, Chris Rock, Tma Majorino, Ashton Kutcher 
Happy Birthday: You are up for plenty of change this year in the romance department. It is a "make it or break it" year that should leave you feeling content. Your ability to communicate will help you solve any problems that have plagued your personal life, making this a great year to get back on track. Your numbers: 10, 16, 22, 26, 31, 38 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Your confidence is back, and you're ready to face the world. Get out with friends, meet new people, and take care of your own needs. Competitive activities will be stimulating. 00000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You're better off getting out of the line of fire at home. Family mem­bers are angry, and you'll bear the brunt of it if you stick around. Make sure you get your chores done first. 00 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will enjoy traveling and visit­ing friends or relatives. Family outings will be educational. You will not accomplish much if you try to work at home or at the office. 0000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
You're in the mood to make money, but don't attempt a risk­taking venture that is liable to leave you the short end of the stick. Children will cost too much if you aren't able to say no. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Try to stay at home with your mate today. You need to spend some time together if you want this rela­tionship to stabilize. Insecurities 
EUGENIA LAST 
have caused a lad< of trust. 00 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
Remember that secret affairs lead to devastating circumstances. Lis­ten to a good friend who is truly looking out for your best inter­ests. Gossip will cause problems for you at work. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): 
You can make major improve­
ments if you set your mind to it. 
Someone you live with appears 
to be confused. Try to help with­
out making waves. 0000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your personal and professional responsibilities will clash if you have taken on too much. You need to do a little self-re-evalua­tion and make a concerted effort to change if necessary. 00 
SAGrITARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 
Contact with cultural or educa­tional institutions will be reward­ing and informative. Seminars, lectures or travel will not be a waste of time. 00000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will need to make some time available for your parents or grandparents. They may need your help with financial or legal matters. -Your time and patience will be rewarded. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You may be jealous if your mate has been flirtatious. Try to keep your cool. You may want to recon­sider your personal intentions. 00 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't let colleagues hold you back. Do your work promptly. Don't wait around for help. You can gain additional insight if you pick up some literature that deals with your chosen field. Keep up with the times, and you'll be the one to advance. 000 
Birthday Baby: You'll tum heads and be the focus of attention throughout your life ..You have.what it takes to set trends and lead any group you become involved m. You are a person of action with a strong sense of justice. 
@ MEN'S SOCCER Wed. VS. ,,_,,,,,,,.,, @ 7 pm 
*500 FREE " Wings while they last! I 
* First 500 fans receive an Irish soccer memo board 



Campus Sports OTHE National Sports
BSERVER 

. American League, p. 16
. SMC Soccer, p. 24 
. NFL p. 17
. Men's Soccer, p. 25 
. 
NHL, p. 18 

. 
Mississippi St., p. 19 


. Yankees, p. 20 
Wednesday, September 19, 2001 


ND VOLLEYBALL 
f!·: 
lf, ~ 
Reaching their goals 
• Irish stop three­match losing streak, top Valpo in three games 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Sports Editor 
After losing three three­
game matches 10 days ago at . the U .S Bank/Arby's Invitational in Lincoln, Neb., the No. 23-ranked Notre Dame women's volleyball team sat 
down and set some goals. 
Head coach Debbie Brown 
stressed scoring while serving, 
hitting for a high percentage 
and accumulating blocks as 
the team's main goals. 
Tuesday night in the Joyce 
Center the Irish (4-3) saw their 
game plan work to perfection 
as they dispatched the 
Crusaders of Valparaiso in 
three games (30-22, 30-12, 30­
17). 
"I think this team did a good 
job of staying focused and 
playing at a level that we should be playing," Brown said. 
Senior Malinda Goralski, the Big East Co-Player of the Week earlier this season, carried the Irish to victory in the first game. Goralski totaled eight kills in 11 attempts in game one, while adding three blocks as the Irish took a back-and­forth game. Goralski finished with 15 kills in 21 swings for a .714 percentage in the match. 
"That's a really good· match for her," Brown said of Goralski. "Seventy-one percent is unbelievable. I have to give a lot of credit to our passers because if we don't pass well, we can't get her the ball." 
Brown's goal was to score at least 18 points per game while serving. In game one. the Irish scored only 12 in this manner, scoring more on defense and giving the Crusaders multiple opportunities to close the gap. In games two and three, Notre Dame solved that problem, scoring 20 points while serving in game two and 18 in game 
see VOLLEYBALL/page 23 
SMC GOLF 
Putters sink to third at Medalist .Invitaitional 
363, only 11 strokes behind tourna­By KATIE McVOY ment winner Hope. Under the lead­Associate Sports Editor ership of tournament winner Lacy 
Wicksall, the Flying Dutch shot a 
The Belles continued on their road team low 352. Tri-State University, to success on Tuesday, finishing in who is looking into joining the MIAA, third place in the MIAA at the also played in the tournament and Medalist Invitational at Albion took home a second place finisJ\, College. But, following on the heels totaling 361. Tri-State's finish will of a first place finish last week, Saint not ultimately affect MIAA rankings. 
Mary's wants to be  Last week's first  
No.1 again. "Everyone  is  "/ think we played  place finish came on an on day for  
really excited and now really looking forward to what  average ... we could have played alot better.,,  the Belles. Every player was focused. But  
we can do at our  Tuesday's match  
tournament this  Theresa Pekarek  wasn't quite  as  
weekend to take back our first  head coach  solid. "I  think  that  
place ranking at  everyone was on  
the  conference  in our last tourna­ 
championship to  ment,·· Hathaway  

show [the MIM] what we've been said. "There were some girls who working on," senior captain Mary­were off their game this week." Oaire Hathaway said. Hathaway led the way for the 
"I think we played average," head Belles, shooting 83 for the day and coach Theresa Pekarek said. "We · finishing in second place in the tour­could have played a lot better. IThe nament. Tuesday marked the first team] needs to learn to handle this day Hathaway led the team and 83 kind of course. That will come with is her personal low for the season. experience." 
Saint Mary's shot a team total of see GOLF/page 22 
FOOTBALL 
Irish ready for block party 
single time. I don't see why we "The mistakes made in our
. Notre Dame can't do the same thing." punt protection are cor­
looks to take After blocking five punts in rectable." 2000, Shane Walton blocked a After analyzing the film Irish
advantage of 
punt against Nebraska to set head coach Bob Davie thinks poor MSU special up Notre Dame's only touch­the four blocks might have down. been the
teams 
Walton is result of
"I'm sure the punt block
looking to great plays
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
get anoth­team is just foaming by King than
Sports Writer 
er block at the mouth. ,. bad play by 
Saturday. the Spartans.
There is only one word to 
" A n y Nevertheless,
describe Michigan State's punt Courtney Watson 
time a he still plans
protection in its 35-21 opening 
team gets linebacker to attack the
victory against Central Mich­
four punts Spartan
igan: hor­

blocked punter.
rible. 
you are going to try to exploit "We're still going to go after
James 
that weakness," ·walton said. those punts," he said. "There's 
King tied 
But he also said he expected no doubt about that. We'll 
an NCAA 
Michigan State to be better probably go after the very first 
record 
prepared this week. one."
with four 
"I know they had to be prac­And no matter how much
blocked 
ticing that because special Michigan State prepares for
punts in a 
teams is one of our focuses." the Irish special teams assault, 
single 
Spartan coach Bobby Walton still thinks Notre Dame 
game. On Watson 
Williams promised to prepare will be better prepared, 
all four 
his punt protection better after "I don't think any team in
blocks, he used the same 
its poor performance in the the country invests as much in 
move to get to the punter. 
opener. special teams as we do," he
"That's just unheard of." 
"The punt team was a big said. "We go out there every­
Irish linebacker Courtney 
minus and unfortunately. the day and practice it." 
Watson said. "I am sure our 
blocked punts overshadowed
punt block team is just foam• 
the team's overall perfor­
ing at the mouth. The guy beat Contact Mike Connolly at 
mance," Williams said after
them on the same move every connolly.28@nd.edu.
the Central Michigan game. 
. Men's Soccer vs. Cleveland State, Today, 7 p.m. 
OBSERVER 
. SMC Soccer vs. Kalamazoo, Today, 4 p.m.
SPORTS 
online classifieds 
. ND Women's Soccer vs. Villanova, Friday, 7 p.m.AT AGLANCE . Football vs. Michigan State, Saturday, 1:30 p.m. http://www.nd.edu/ ~observer 

