
Easing the Jitters
PARTLY 
Monday

CLOUDY 
Nervous before an audition? Scene explores the campus theater audition
HIGH 84° 

SEPTEMBER 3,

process. 
LOW62° 
Scene . pages 9-10 
2001 


The Independent Newspaper Se11Jing Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 5 HTTP://OBSFRVFR.ND.EDU 



Student allegedly raped Friday 
. SMC reports a Notre Dame Security/Police Security said Sunday the The student returned to cam­Timm advised students in 
at 9:05 p.m. Friday, accord­incident referred to in the pus during the weekend and Saturday's alert to be awarestudent ingested ing to Chuck Hurley, assis­alert was on file with NDSP. is "working with the appro­of their surroundings, not to date rape drug tant director of NDSP. While the alert does not priate authorities to recon­drink beverages they did not 
According to the report. the specify if the student was struct the events of the open and not to share or 
assault happened in Keough raped, Hurley said NDSP is evening," according to Linda exchange beverages with 
By MYRA MCGRIFF Hall, and the victim knew her investigating a rape allega­Timm, vice president for others. Students should not 
Saine Mary's Editor alleged assailant. tion filed Friday. He would Student Affairs, who wrote to leave beverages unattend­
Saint Mary's sent a security not confirm if the two inci­the e-mail alert. ed, or go to a private place alert to students by e-mail dents are related. Specific results about with a new acquaintance.
A student was allegedly 
Saturday afternoon, report­Saturday's security alert whether or not the student Timm said.
raped Friday night at Keough 
ing that a student had said the student was admit­did ingest a date rape drug
Hall, according to a report 
allegedly ingested a date ted to St. Joseph Hospital in will not be available for "a
filed Friday with Notre Dame 
rape drug while at a party South Bend after possibly period of weeks," according Contact Myra McGriff at
Security/Police. 
Friday night. Saint Mary's ingesting a date rape drug. to Timm. mcgrO l 8 l@saintmarys.edu.
The assault was reported to 
Singing for sobriety 
• Flipside concert draws more than 3,000 students 
By JACKIE SANTORO News Writer 
More than 3,000 students danced, 
sang and partied their way into a 
new school year Friday night-­
sober. 
Flipstock 2001, an alternative rock concert sponsored by Flipside, a campus organization devoted to planning social activities for non­drinkers, rocked the Joyce Center Friday night. Scheduled against the annual "Rally in the Alley" party at Turtle Creek apartments, organizers said they wanted to give students a safer way to spend their time. 
Flipside officials were pleased with the turnout, which had reached 3,286 students by the end of the evening. 
"This year we laid the foundation next year we will continue to build on the success of this year's concert," said Mike Rampolla, Flipstock co­chair. 
Beginning the concert was Right Hand Side; a band composed of cur­rent Notre Dame students. Nine Days continued the show by playing songs such as, "Absolutely (Story of a Girl}" and "If IAm." Following their perfor­mance, SR-71 took the stage cover­ing such bands as ACDC as well as their own songs. They Might Be Giants ended the show. 
The concert took more than two years to plan by the time the group had rallied funding and booked the bands. Organizers hoped the concert would bring positive attention to the group and encourage responsible decisions towards drinking. 
"The administration was very happy with the end result," said Sarah Hoshaw. Flipstock co-chair. "We are hoping that [they] were impressed enough to continue this 
Contact Jackie Santoro at sant6825@saintmarys.edu. 

ND renovates campus buildings 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER 
Assistant News Editor 
During the summer months, con­
struction workers were busy finishing 
construction on Malloy Hall, renova­
tions of Hurley Hall and the Hayes­
Healy Center. beginning an addition 
on the Hesburgh Center for 
International Studies and with prepa­
rations for an addition to the Stepan 
Chemistry Building. 
Earlier this month, the Philosophy and Theology departments moved into Malloy Hall, located behind Decio Faculty Hall. The move helped consol­idate the departments, which previ­ously had administrative offices in O'Shaugnessy Hall and offices for individual professors in Decio and Flanner Hall. Malloy Hall offers more spacious offices with better furniture, seminar rooms. a chapel and space for graduate students. 
"I think it's really much better. The desks are nicely designed for paper conferences with students and it's a much more nice and airy building. We should stress, though, that we were grateful to inhabit Decio for 15 years and we are also grateful to Don Keough for providing us with a new home," said Philosophy Department Chair. Paul Weithman. 
According to Theology Department Chair John Cavadini, his department will benefit from the building's con­ference room and seminar rooms, nei­ther of which was available in Decio. 
"There are two seminar rooms that are released to the registrar only after philosophy and theology have had the opportunity to use them, which allows us to put a library of books in them. There is a chapel, which is open to the whole university community, but will also be used by our seminary and divinity students," said Cavadini. The building puts the philosophy and theology departments 
see BUILD/page 4 


i\1onday, September 3, 2001 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Remember 
others on 

Labor Day 
Once again Labor Day has arrived and with it tons of moaning and complaining from stu­dents. Other than perhaps the "no meat in the dining halls" policy on Fridays in Lent, no other time of the year 
seems to draw as much whining as Labor Day. 
Many students argue that by making us go to school on Labor Day. we are not properly honoring the day dedicated to the workers of America. I believe, however, that by going school on Labor 


Day, students may actual-Mike Connolly ly gain a greater apprecia­tion for America's work-
en. h 
Labor Day is one of the Editor in C ief few days of the year when Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students finally understand how many people work so hard to make our college experiences convenient and enjoyable. 
The food in the dining hall isn't quite as good on Labor Day because there aren't as many workers. You can't cash a check at the cashier's office on Labor Day. 
The mass of nasty pizza boxes and empty beer cans that pile up in the hallways on Friday and Saturday night are still there when you wake up on Monday. The wonder­ful and nearly saintly housekeepers that make that mess magically disappear on Monday mornings won't be in until Tuesday this week. 
If you think it is gross to walk by those piles of trash in the hallways, imagine what it must be like to have to carry them to the dumpster. 
Even with so many of our important service workers having the day off, there are still many who had to come to work today. So when you swipe into the dining hall and pick up your stir fry, give an extra smile and thank you to those who prepared the meal and clean up the dishes. 
Some people will still complain about going to class today because "everyone should have off on Labor Day. It's a federal holiday." But I am sure they would complain even more loudly if the dining halls were closed today because "everyone should have off today. It's a federal holiday." 
Nearly everything at these two schools is conveniently provided for us. From clean hallways to secure quads at night, people work hard to bring us these services. Maybe today. when some of those services are miss­ing or restricted, we will finally notice how good we have it. 
I'd like to give a special thank you to every­one working at The Papers in Milford, Ind. today. They all came in just to print The Observer today. They are just one more group of people working hard to make things a little easier and more convenient. 
Make sure you don't let those people's work go unnoticed and unappreciated when the offices reopen Tuesday and everything goes back to normal. 
Contact Mike Connolly at connolly.28@nd.edu. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS/ CLARIFICATIONS 
In the Aug. 31 edition ofThe Observer, Notre Dame women's soccer player Vanessa Pruzinsky's name was misspelled in a headline on the Sports section front. Also in the Aug. 31 edition, the prices ofa textbook at the Hammes Bookstore reported in a Scene graphic were inadvertently switched. The Observer regrets the errors. The Aug. 30 edicion ofThe Observer reported Alexis Brooks­DeVita as Saint Mary's first black professor. For clarification pwposcs, Carol Ann Carter was the first black tenured associate professor at the College from 1975 to 1985. 
The Ol»crvc:r (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacacion periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Monday  Tuesday  
. Holiday: Labor Day, all  . Event: Notre Dame  
administrative offices  Activites Night,  
closed, classes in session  7 to 9 p.m., Joyce Center  
. Film: "The Inheritance,"  Fieldhouse  
A film and discussion  . Film: "Guantanamera,"  
series on the history of  Latin American Film  
Labor in the United States  Symposium, 7p.m.,  
4 p.m., Hesburgh Center  LaFortune  

Compiled from U-Wire reports

BEYOND CAMPUS 
Florida eliminates race-based scholarships 

GAINESVILLE 
The University of Florida Foundation announced Wednesday that UF will no longer award scholar­ships based on race. 
"Scholarships are only one part of a comprehensive strategy the university is using to ensure our student body can remain diverse," Provost David Colburn said in a statement. 
In his statement, Colburn said strong recruiting efforts, strengthen­ing relationships with partner high schools and improving the campus cli­mate would ensure UF is welcoming to all students. 
Because significant modifications have been made during the past few years to make scholarships non-race exclusive to meet federal regulations, the scholarships in question are those 
UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN 
Media spotlights stem-cell research 
National and international spotlights have illumi­nated the University of Wisconsin-Madison in recent weeks after national policy identified the school as a major player in the future of stem cell research. When President Bush made his announcement sup­porting federal funding for embryonic stem-cell research, scientists around the world let out a relieved sigh. No one got luckier than UW researcher James Thomson, who has quickly risen to fame with his face even appearing on the cover of Time maga­zine. Thomson's 1998 discovery of the human embry­onic stem cell is now the center of worldwide atten­tion. Bush announced he would support federal fund­ing of stem-cell research, but would only finance research on stem-cell lines established before 9 p.m. on Aug. 9, the date of his speech. What this means for UW was not, and still is not, fully understood. But as inventors and owners of the patent for the human embryonic stem cell, UW is now a major player in the future of this new science. 


LOCAL WEATHER 
S Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather•forecast for daytime conditions ,111d high temperatures 

that use race as a preference and not a requirement. Students who current­ly receive assistance through any minority program will not be affected by the decision. 
"I strongly disagree with it," said Morgan Ellis, a member of l'vtinority 
UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 
Corporate-funded freshmen start 
A free college education and a whole lot of fame is what University of Southern Calil'ornia freshman Luke McCabe got when he set out to find a corporation to foot his tuition bill. The cral'ty idea began with McCabe's trip to Los Angeles last summer. He and his friend Chris Barrett traveled from their Ocean Park, N.J., homes to visit three colleges in southern California. The pair soon found the schools of their dreams and the high price tags that went with them. With a short budget and big desires, the two set out to find some way to make money fast. They found their inspiration watching television. Tiger Woods appeared on a program sporting a baseball cap with a Nike label, and the light bulbs clicked on for Luke and Chris. "We thought 'I ley, if' Tiger \'\'oods can get all this money being sponsored. why can't we?'" McCabe said. The boys created a WPb pag(1 f'eaturing pho­tographs of thcmselv,~s w1~aring shirts and caps labeled "Place your ad hern." Companies lined up to get their logos on McCab<~ and Barrett. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, MonCJay, Sept. 3. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the <lay 
~-­
"~ 

sos-e> 10 s 
FRONTS: 

......... • e • e . 
COLD WARM STATIONARY
e 2001 AccuWeather, Inc. 

Wednesday 
. 
Event: "Rembrandt's Print: Rembrandt's Personal Vision of the Bible," all day. The Snite 

. 
Event: Senior Kick-Off, 


5:30 to 7 p.m., Stapleton Lounge, Saint Mary's 
Ambassadi,rs -a group aimed at aid­ing minority stud1~11ts. "Depleting these programs for minorities further decreases the number of minorities at UF." 
While the enrollment of black and Hispanic students is projected at 7,728 this year, an all-time high, the number for each group has decreased in comparison to last fall. This time last year, 819 black students were enrolled. But this year, only 461 are enrolled; Hispanic enrollment is down to 711 from 838 last year. 
Ellis, who-receives a scholarship through the Offict! of Admissions MI NAM BA program, said she feels this is all a result of Cov. Jeb Bush's One Florida Plan -an order by the governor that endPd racial prefer­ences in admissions. 
Thursday 

. 
Film: "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon," 7 p.m., Carey Auditorium 

. 
Event: Student Activities Fair, 7 to 1 O p.m., Angela Athletic Facility. Saint l'vlary's 


f'ress/Jft!: 

:-;,·,·mt~:.,
® © D EJ D D D LJ 
High Low Shower-I Rain T..storms Fltu·rM!ts Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
Atlanta  76  69  Las Vegas  91  72  Portland  76  56  
Baltimore  68  54  Memphis  86  68  Sacramento  82  63  
Boston  63  74  Milwaukee  84  64  St Louis  79  52  
Chicago  83  63  New York  78  59  Tampa  87  58  
Houston  87  72  Philadelphia  83  67  Washington DC 80  68  


KYLIE CARTER/The Observer 

Students wait in line to receive their tickets at Notre Dame Stadium box office. Many students want to change the distri­bution process, citing long lines and confusion as reasons for a new system. 
Students speak out on ticket distribution 
Monday, September 3, 2001 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 

By ALLY JAY 
News Writer 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students have been plagued by discontent over the past few years voicing displeasure with the organi­zation of student football ticket distribution. 
Tthe discontent has become as much of a tradition as camping out for football tick­ets at the JACC once was. 
For some students, like sophomore Jeff Eyerman. this year's football distribution policy was met with even more displeasure. 
"This was the most ridicu­lous way I've ever picked up my tickets because it com­pletely interrupted my orien­
tation  process."  said  
Eyerman.  
Senior  Jim  McGowan  

agreed that it was difficult for him and his friends to coordi­nate their schedules so they could get lottery tickets together. McGowan offered a · better idea for football ticket 
distribution in the future. 
"My suggestion would be GA by class. It would be easi­er for everyone if there were senior, junior, sophomore, freshman sections and the seats were given on a first come first serve basis," com­mented McGowan. "Right now it's annoying to have to wait in line to enroll with your friends, then go some­where else to get a ticket stub. and wait in line again for tickets," McGowan added. 
McGowan and other stu­dents acknowledged that this is often the way that it works in the end anyway, unless one has a strict usher. In the latter case, the current policy makes it difficult for students to sit with groups of friends located in different sections. 
Other students found this year's distribution policy to be more convenient and painless than in the past. 
"This year it was easier for off-campus students and more informative," off-cam­pus senior Amanda Urquidez said. "Last year you had to wait in long lines to get the ticket form and then run over 
/.•...•.·.··· .····.···•.·.;(( n1~,!:;::tf%~:'.; ,;<;1::r;z;.;;::i;:~:f,·•··t···.··.. 
. . 
to Stepan." 
But Urquidez cited con­cerns about how the tradition of waiting in line for tickets with friends, and bonding over the lines and music, has been lost. Urquidez -also expressed preference for over-night campouts for foot­ball tickets. 
"My freshman year we camped out in the JACC and there were no concerns about alcohol. Getting tickets was part of the football tradition." 
Freshman Charles Ebersol disagreed. 
"I remember coming here a few years ago and seeing all of these students with sleep­ing bags. waiting in a long line which seemed ridiculous. Tliis was much easier, and the line wasn't that bad." 
Junior Nathan Morrell agreed, citing the efficiency and organization of student football distribution this year. 
"We had no wait," said Morrell. "The only bad thing was that we had to get our group organized early, and we hadn't seen some of our friends so we couldn't get tickets with different groups of friends." 
Freshman Nicholas Petrella agreed that this year's distri­bution was painless. "It's hard to figure out, but it's easy to do." 
He acknowledged that the only difficulty he saw was with giving his ID away to friends who were buying the tickets while he was in class, was when later he wanted to go to lunch and they were nowhere to be found. 
While many students like Petrella pass on their IDs and checks never to experience the actual ticket buying, freshman Ben Marley waited in line with 50 of his friend's IDs and checks. 
"It wasn't too bad," said Marley. However, the ticket process became less painless when Marley realized he had forgotten his lottery ticket. "I left the stub and had to run back to my room." Said friend Charles Ebersol. "I saved the spot." 
Contact Ally Jay at jay.5l@nd.edu. 
The largest and most competitive club sport on campus 

Please visit our booth at activities night for information and sign-ups. 
page 3 
Holiday not 
observed by c_ampuses 
. Students, staff report for class and work as usual 
By JOE I.ARSON News Writer 
Last year on Labor Day, students and many campus employees went about their daily schedules. At first glance, campus seemed normal. 
Today will likely appear normal as well. While Notre Dame and Saint Mary's do not recognize Labor Day as campus holidays, schools and workplaces throughout the country are closed today to recog­nize the national holiday. 
The tightly-planned academic cal­endar does not allow the school to observe Labor Day, said officials in the Notre Dame registrar's office. 
"Labor Day has never really been a question," said University regis­trar Harold Pace. "With the number of school days required by the Academic Council. it really is not an option to take another class day off 

.. for Labor Day." The Academic Council decides the schedule, and mandates each semester must include at least 70 class days. The best starting day for that semester is usually somewhere between Aug. 22 and 28. Because each semester usually includes a week-long fall break and two study days, there is no room to eliminate a class day on Labor Day. This year's schedule presents additional problems, according to Pace. "The reason we could not add another day on to the schedule is because the faculty is required to have their grades in three days after final exams are given," Pace said. Many University and College employees will also report to work today as usual. Although all administrative and building services offices are closed for the national holiday, there are still other university employees required to work on Labor Day. Those in food services, utility, fire department, and security are all expected to treat Labor Day as if it was just another day. "Whenever the students are here, someone is always working," said Mary Ann Sobieralski. a South Dining Hall employee. "For me, it's just another workday. I just think it's Monday, I gotta go to work." Some employees in housekeeping reported Sunday instead of Monday to make sure the dorms were clean enough before employees took the holiday off. "There's more students than last year," said Kim Glover, a house­keeper in Morrissey Hall. "If we didn't come in on Sunday, we'd get back here on Tuesday and every­thing would be ruined." But, Glover said, she would enjoy an extra perk for coming into work as scheduled. "The only thing that isn't so great is that the University doesn't pay us overtime for coming in on a holiday. That would be nice," she said. 
Contact Joe Larson at larson.13@nd.edu. 
I 
NOW LEASING FOR 2002-2003 OOMUS PROPERTIES HAS 2,4,5,6,7,8,9 & 10 BEDROOM HOUSES STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS SECURITY SYSTEMS WASHER & DRYERS 
DOMUS PROPERTIES CONTACT KRAMER 298-9673, 234·2436, OR 674-2571 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Monday, September 3. 2001 


Build 
continued from page 1 
together, providing opportu­
nities for collaboration. 
"I think whenever depart­ments are housed together there's no predicting what synergy. conversation and collaboration will develop. Philosophy and Theology have always been important to Catholic education and with this building, the University has written its commitment to these departments in stone," said Weithman. 
The Math department and International Studies department completed their move into the Hayes-Healy Center and Hurley Hall in May. The International Studies department was housed in the Main Building until its renovation four years ago when it moved to Hurley Hall. While Hurley was being renovated for the past two years, the depart­ment was housed in the Security Building, but is now in a more central loca­tion on campus. The London Program, formerly housed in O'Shaughnessy Hall, also moved to Hurley Hall. 
"It will be very helpful to students to have all the international study pro­grams in one location on the center of campus," said Claudia Klesman, Associate Director of the International· Studies department. The Math department was housed in the Computing Center and Math Building (CCMB) since it was built in 1962 before being moved to the Hayes-Healy Center after the end of the last aca­demic year. The new facility 

'Tuesday Seytem6er 4th attfiej~CC 
·7:00PM-9:00PM 
Come anti sign upfor Service ana Social Action Clubs! 
Look for details in the Observer tomorrow! 
We (ookforwardto seein8 you tfierel 

CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
provides more space and better facilities for the department. The buildings have 10 classrooms, two 30­seat seminar rooms. two 32­seat classrooms. two 56­seat classrooms, two 72­seat classrooms, and one 132-seat auditorium. 
"All of us are very happy with the move. You name it, we have it: better offices, better secretaries' offices, better seminar rooms and it's better lit. It's much nicer looking," said Juan Migliore,. Director of Undergraduate Studies for the Math department. 
In addition to better office facilities, there are class­rooms in the building and more professors will be able to teach in the same build­ing as their office. 
"First-year classes are more likely to be here and more professors will be teaching in this building than in the CCM B," said Migliore. 
Workers began construc­tion in June on an addition to the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. The 11,600 square foot addition will provide office space at the southeast corner of the building for the Kellogg Institute for International Studies and the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. The addi­tion will cost $2. 7 million, will have 19 private offices and three administrative offices and will be com­pleted this summer. 
Work will begin in 
November on an extension to the north end of Stepan Chemistry Hall. It will be a 15,000 square foot addition. stretching from the end of the current wing of the building to the access road heading to LaFortune Student Center. It will not disrupt the current road structure. The $6 million addition is scheduled to include four research labo­ratories and 10 faculty offices and is significantly more expensive than the addition to the Hesburgh Center because of the infra­structure of a laboratory. 
"Labs in general are going to be more expensive than offices that just need four walls, electricity and plumb­ing," said Dennis Brown, associate director of public relations. 
Construction of an apart­ment complex for visiting professors located near Fischer Graduate Residences that began last semester is scheduled to be completed by January. The complex will contain 24 two-bedroom units and will cost $2. 7 million. 
Contact Scott Brodfuerhrer brodfurhrcr.l@nd.edu. 



ACUPULCO OR CANCUN FOR THE WEEKEND? 
No problem if you study during the week 
at Notre Dame's International Study Program in 
PUEBLA, MEXICO 
INFORMATION SESSIONS 
Wednesday, September 5, 2001 Thursday, September 20, 2001 
5:00 PM 

217 DeBartolo 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: OCT. 1, 2001 FOR SPRING 2002 DEC. 1, 2001 FOR F'2002, AY 2002-2003 APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE: www.nd.edu/~intlstud/ 
Physics taught in the fall semester for Pre-Professional Students 

ATION 
Monday, September 3, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Putin visits Finland: Russian President Vladimir Putin began his first state visit to Finland Sunday and is expected meet with offi• cials here to discuss border cooperation, and European Union and NATO expansion. Putin and his wife Lyudmila were whisked away from Turku Airport, 100 miles west of Helsinki, to President Tarja Halonen's summer residence for talks. In addition to several meetings with Halonen, Putin will hold talks with Prime Minister Paavo Llpponen. 
Iran's president appoints brother: 
President Mohammad Khatami appointed his younger brother as head of his presidential office, state-run television reported Sunday. Ali Khatami, the president's younger brother, suc­ceeds Mohammad Ali Abtahi, a close Khatami ally who served as chief of his office. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Hurricane Erin forms in Atlantic: 
Tropical Storm Erin, the fifth named storm of the Atlantic hurricane season, formed far out at sea on Sunday but didn't immediately threaten land. It was expected to strengthen and could become a hurricane by Monday, according to hurricane specialist Miles Lawrence at the 
National Hurricane Center. The storm's maxi• mum sustained wind had increased to 50 mph. The threshold for a tropical storm is top wind of 39 mph; a storm becomes a hurricane when its maximum steady wind reaches 74 mph. 
Teen alleges firing due to HIV: A 16­year-old girl who was born with the HIV virus has filed a discrimination complaint against her first employer alleging she was fired because of her illness. Korrin Krause worked only one day as a grocery bagger at Quality Foods IGA before the manager called her mother to verify she had HIV and said she no longer had a job. Krause alleges. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Letterman wants name on stadium: 
David Letterman believes his alma mater should name its football stadium after him, even if he doesn't pay a dime for the honor. The CBS talk show host says he's launching a cam­paign to name the new Ball State University stadium. "What could be more fun, on a crisp autumn Indiana afternoon. to load the family and get the picnic and have a little tailgate party out there in the parking lot of majestic Dave Letterman Stadium?" the 1969 graduate asked his television audience Wednesday. University officials said they have no immediate plans to grant his wish. 
Market Watch August 31 

Dow 
9,949.75 +30.17 
Jones 

Composite Same: 
Volume: 244 NIA 
AMEX: 873.40 +2.42 NASDAQ: 1,805.43 +13.75 NYSE: 587.84 +l.74 S&P 500: 1,133.58 -t4.55 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 INDX (QQQ) 0.00 0.00 36.17 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) +3.43 -+B.38 11.45 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +2.00 +0. 32 16. 33 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +1.75 +0.21 12.21 BROADVISION INC (BVSN) -14.57 -0. 22 1. 29 
SOUTH AFRICA 

Associated Press 
DURBAN 

Rep. Tom Lantos says he's been working the hallways at the U.N. racism confer­ence, unsuccessfully urging dozens of delegations to stop focusing on condemning Israel and begin doing the real work of combating dis­crimin a tio n around the world. 
"If the conference. and it still has a chance, will refo­cus on its original goals and objectives. it can still be res­cued," Lantos, a member of the U.S. delegation at the conference, said Sunday. "But if it continues to appease those whose only goal is to gain a cheap politi• cal advantage, a propagan­da gain at the expense of the state of Israel, that will not work." 
The World Conference Against Racism. which start­ed Friday and will run through Sept. 7, has been marked by disputes over language condemning Israel and how to deal with the legacy of slavery and colo• nialism in its draft declara­tion. Working groups contin­ue to argue over the word­ing. 
Both the United States, which sent only a midlevel delegation in protest of what it considered anti-Semitic language in the document, and Israel have been harsh­ly criticized throughout the conference. 
U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights Mary Robinson, who has worked to allay the controversy over the condemnation of Israel at the conference, was booed on Saturday when she addressed a forum for human rights groups. 
"The language and the tone of the conference is that of a lynch mob," said Lantos, pointing to speech by Cuban leader Fidel Castro on Saturday that was frequently interrupted by applause. 
"Here is a man running a police state criticizing the United States which, with all its flaws. is a democracy." 

Bible saves teen from gunshots 
Associated Press 

NORTH FORT MYERS, Fla. 
A mother allegedly shot dead her 6­year-old son Sunday but a shotgun blast intended for his 16-year-old brother was absorbed by the teen­ager's Bible, police said. 
Leslie Ann Wallace, 39, was later shot by sheriffs deputies and hospital­ized in critical condition. 
Authorities said Wallace shot her son James Wallace at home, then drove to her family's church where she fired her shotgun at 16•year•old Kenneth Wallace as he stood outside. 
The blast, fired at close range, struck his Bible and the overcoat he was carrying. Kenneth Wallace's arm had minor scratches. 
"The Bible certainly saved his life," 
said Lee County Sheriffs Deputy Larry Authorities said she then went to a King. "Had his Bible not been in the pay phone and called 911 to report 
way he would have sustained the brunt of the blast and very well could have died from that type of injury." 
Authorities said that from the church, Mrs. Wallace drove to a pizzeria where her 19-year-old son, Gregory Wallace, was working and she pointed her shotgun at the store's manager. 
"Had his Bible not been in the way he would have sustained the brunt of the blast and very well could have died from that type ofinjury." 
Larry King Lee County Sheriffs Deputy 
the killing of James Wallace. Police found his body at the family's home. 
As deputies pulled over her car, she began firing at them, authorities said. They returned fire. hitting her once. 
King said police found anti-depres­sant medication at the home but did not give a motive for the shootings. 

Police had forewarned Gregory "We're still sorting through things," Wallace that his mother may be en King said. "The rest of the circum­route. stances aren't real clear yet." 
page6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Monday, September 3, 2001 
Class of 
2004 gets rolling 
ByJUSTIN KRMCKAS 
News Writer 
While many students were still unpacking, the Sophomore Class Council began structuring events for the class of 2004. The Council's first meeting on Wednesday high­lighted events it will sponsor dur­ing the upcoming academic year. 
Council members received a copy of newly elected sophomore class president Keri Oxley's and vice-president Nick Williams' plat­form. 
"It's our responsibility to give the class what they asked and elected us for," Oaxley said to the Council, stressing the platform's impor­tance. "Our main goal is to pro­mote class unity and sophomore spirit." 
The council is currently complet­ing preparations for a Sept. 9 jazz festival on South Quad and a Sept. 29 field day. The on-campus field day event will bring more than 100 children from the South Bend community to campus. 
Also, to help strengthen commu­nity activism, the Council plans to create a monthly sophomore vol­unteer program for the class. The Council hopes that through its new program, sophomores can become better acquainted with the com­munity service experience. 
To help enhance communication between the class of 2004 and its representative body, the council will install comment boxes in each ofthe dorms on campus. 
'This gives a chance for any sophomore who has an idea, or hopes to see anything changed, a chance to voice an option," said Williams. 
Committee Members will review each suggestion and personally respond. In addition, a sophomore newsletter and website are being created to keep students informed on sophomore class events. 
Sophomores wishing to suggest ideas to the Council are encour­aged to meet with council mem­bers. Oxley and Williams will hold office hours on the first Monday of every month from 8 to 10 p.m. on the 1st floor ofLa.Fortune. 
Associated Press 
KISANGANI, Congo 

U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan took his peace mission to the heart of Congo Monday where he was to meet with the leaders of Rwandan­backed rebels who have con­trolled this strategic river port since the beginning of the civil war three years ago. 
After calling for the with­drawal of all five foreign armies involved in the con­flict, Annan was expected to insist that the rebel Congolese Rally for Democracy agree to the demilitarization of Kisangani so that it can serve as a neu­tral center of operations for the United Nations mission to Congo. 
The mission is monitoring a cease-fire agreed to by all parties to the conflict in a July 1999 peace accord, which was not respected until early this year when Joseph Kabila was named president foil owing the mys­terious assassination of his father. Laurent Kabila, in January. 
Rwanda and Uganda back rebels opposed to the govern­ment in Kinshasa; Zimbabwe, 
· Angola and Namibia have sent troops to back the gov­ernment. But on Sunday, Namibia said it had with­drawn all but a handful of the 2,000 troops it sent to Congo. "We are not foreigners, we are Congolese." rebel spokesman Kin-Kiey Mulumba said Sunday in Kisangani. "The Security Council resolution calling for demilitarization was issued following clashes between Rwandan and Ugandan forces in 1999 and last year. which have since withdrawn from the area." 
The rebels have replied to the Security Council appeal, saying they would be willing to withdraw their forces to 
. tJNIVERSnf· 
. ''1'imRARIBS 
,~!Ii 
.•. : :·:::~::·:~·-·::?::·:::·:~::;;;;:: 

Tour the Library and Ca$h In! 
The University Libraries are offering tours to new Notre Dame students. By participating in a½hour tour of the Hesburgh library, you will have achance to win a$50.00 gift certificate at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
Four winning tickets will be drawn! 
No pre-registration is necessary. F,ach tour wj/J highlight the available resources, services and collections within the University 
All tours meet in the Library Concourse. 
Check us out at: http://lib.nd.edu 
Libraries ofNotre Dame. 

Tour Times and Dates: Tuesday, Sept. 4, 2001, 4:30pm Wednesday, Sept. 5, 2001, 4:30pm Tuesday, Sept. 11, 2001, 4:30pm Wednesday, Sept. 12, 2001, 4:30pm Tuesday, Sept. 18, 2001, 4:30pm Wednesday, Sept. 19, 2001, 4:30pm 
CONGO 
Secretary pleads for peace in Congo 
points outside the city but insist on retaining control over the port and the two air­ports. 
Between them, the Congolese Rally for Democracy and Ugandan­backed rebels under Jean­Pierre Bemba control most of northern and eastern Congo, or roughly half of Africa's third-largest nation. 
But Kisangani -the last navigable port on the mighty Congo River located at the geographic center of the con­tinent -has been effectively cut off from the outside world since late 1998 when all traf­fic down river to government­held territory came to a halt. Annan's visit to the city is the first time Congolese journal­ists from rebel and govern­ment held territory have cov­ered the same event since the conflict erupted in August 
1998. 

U.N. officials argue that 
demilitarization could reopen the city to river traffic, vital to supply the region with fuel and other supplies which are now flown in from neighbor­ing Rwanda and Uganda at great expense. 
Except for the white U .N. vehicles and a handful of four-wheel drive cars belong­ing to the rebels, there is vir­tually no automobile traffic in Kisangani, where gasoline is measured out in quart bottles by street vendors popularly known as "Gadhafis" after the leader of oil-rich Libya. 
If they don't want to walk and can afford the 10-cent fare, residents can ride on bicycle taxis known as "tolekas" whose passenger seats sport colorful crocheted covers. 
Annan's visit has raised considerable expectations among the people of Kisangani and beyond. 
Jean-Jacques Ossongo, the 
spokesman for the Congolese Association for Civil Peace and Democracy. appealed to the secretary-general and Western leaders in general to intervene to save Congo from itself. 
Ramniklal Kotecha's appeal was more specific. The busi­nessman based in the eastern town of Bukavu on the Rwandan border wants help in recovering one of his ships and its cargo of 400 tons of sugar that was hijacked on Lake Tanganyika in August by Congolese tribal militia. 
When informed about the request, a harried MONUC official, who asked that his name not be used, said he had a stack of claims from Kisangani businessmen who wanted the United Nations to reimburse them for damage suffered during the three brief but bloody battles between Rwandan and Ugandan forces. 

Attention Stu~ent~ 
~eniors interested in the Rhodes, Marshall, orMitchell ~cholarship shoula attend ameeting to learn the process for applying tlirou~the campus committee. 
TueSGay, SeptemOer ~ili 0:ijijpm room WI Law School 
Ifyouare U11able to attend thls me~ing, infonnationmay ~ obtained inthe Fellowshlp Office in room 99 O'Sliaughnessy 
Monday, September 3, 200 I The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
SOUTH KOREA 
Parliment p~s no-confidence vote 
Associated Press 
SEOUL 

South Korea's parliament passed a no-confidence motion Monday against the Cabinet minister in charge of policy toward North Korea. 
The vote was a blow to President Kim Dae-jung's so­called "sunshine" policy of engaging North Korea, which helped him win the Nobel Peace Prize last year. 
It followed a North Korean proposal Sunday to resume stalled talks, which the South said would help restore the reconciliation process that began with an inter-Korean summit last year. 
Of the 267 votes cast in the 271-member National Assembly, 148 supported the ouster of Unification Minister Lim Dong-won and 119 wanted to keep him in the post. 
Kim is not legally bound to respect the decision, but he was not expected to risk a major confrontation with the parliament by retaining Lim in his post. 
A former chief of South Korea's main intelligence agency, Lim helped arrange an unprecedented meeting in June 2000 between Kim and North Korean leader Kim Jong IL The summit led to a series of exchanges that came to a halt in March amid U.S.-North Korean tension. 
The motion to oust Lim was introduced by the main opposition Grand National Party, which has accused the government of dispatching aid and making other con­cessions to North Korea while getting little in return. 
Lim had come under fierce criticism for his approval of a visit to North Korea by 311 civilian delegates two weeks ago. 
The delegation of religious, civic and labor activists visit­ed the North to celebrate the anniversary of the Korean peninsula's 1945 liberation from Japanese colonial rule. 
During the trip, some dele­gates allegedly praised the North's government. Upon their return, seven delegates were arrested on suspicion of violating the South's anti­communist laws. 
The timing of the North's proposal to negotiate ­interpreted by opposition leaders and some analysts as an attempt to salvage Lim·s post -was a relief for the South Korean government. 
"The government welcomes the North Korean proposal. which came following our consistent call for a resump­tion of dialogue," said Kim Hong-jae, a spokesman for the Unification Ministry. 
The North's proposal. announced on Radio Pyongyang, came on the eve of a three-day visit to North Korea by Chinese President Jiang. Zemin. He arrived in Pyongyang on Monday, and was met at the airport by Kim Jong 11. the North's media said. 
Associated Press 

CHRISTMAS ISIAND 
Hundreds of refugees strand­ed aboard a Norwegian freighter came closer to setting foot on land after an Australian court cleared the way for them to sail to Papua New Guinea aboard a naval vessel. 
Australia's refusal to accept the refugees after the cargo ship Tampa rescued them from a floundering boat on Aug. 27 sparked international criticism, including from the chief of the United Nations. 
On Monday, Australian offi­cials began transferring the refugees from the freighter to the HMAS Manoora, a troop­carrying ship. 
Two barges, each big enough to carry at least 30 people, were used to ferry the refugees between the two ships. The process was expected to take up to six hours. There are more than 430 migrants; most are Afghan. 
The Manoora was expected to leave Monday night for the weeklong voyage to Port Moresby, the capital of Papua New Guinea. From there, some refugees will be flown to New Zealand and some to the Pacific island nation of Nauru, where their applications for asylum will be reviewed. 
The migrants, including sev­eral pregnant women, have been aboard the Norwegian ship in the Indian Ocean for a week -since the crew saved them from a sinking Indonesian ferry operated by people-smug­glers. 
They were rescued near Australia's remote Christmas Island, but Australia refused to accept them. Civil rights lawyers challenged the decision and obtained an injunction blocking their removal from Australian waters. 
Australia's federal court lifted the injunction Monday, clearing the way for the military to transfer the refugees to the Manoora and transport them to Papua New Guinea. 
However, the refugees cannot be moved from the ship to Papua New Guinea soil until the conclusion of the federal court hearing in the southern city of 
Melbourne,  expected  
Wednesday.  
If  the  court  finds  that  

Australia must accept the asy­lum seekers and process their requests for refugee status, the Manoora would be required to return the migrants to Australia. 
The Norwegian ship plucked the refugees -who include a few Sri Lankans and Pakistanis -from a sinking ferry in international waters between Christmas Island and Indonesia. The Australian government claimed they were the responsi­
bility of either Norway or 
Indonesia. 
When the Tampa's captain defied Australia and entered Australian territorial waters seeking humanitarian aid for the refugees. Prime Minister John Howard ordered 50 com­tnandos to storm the ship. 
After frenzied negotiations with Pacific nations, Australia secured agreements with New Zealand and the republic of Nauru, with Papua New Guinea as a transit point. 
About 150 of the boat people will go to New Zealand for pro­cessing. The remainder will go to Nauru, where representa­tives of the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees will assess their asylum applica­tions. 
Australia has said it will take some of those who are granted refugee status. 
Australia has also said it would bear the cost for Nauru. which lies 4,500 miles east of Christmas Island. An 8 1/2­square-mile island with a popu­lation of less than 12,000, Nauru's major industry is phos­phate mining, and Australia is its major trading partner. Papua New Guinea is Australia's largest aid recipient. 
Ahead of the voyage. navy helicopters were ferrying water, food, lifejackets and other supplies from Christmas Island to the Manoora. 



ml.com/careers 
C 2001 Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. 

Wednesday, September 12, 2001 7:00pm -9:00pm Morris Inn, Notre Dame Room 
Merrill Lynch is an equal opportunity employer Our advice about your next career move: be bullish 
~Merrill Lynch 
AUSTRALIA 
Refugees transfer ships 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

page 8 Monday, September 3, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Souch Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINE.SS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Pat Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck 
SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadcer ScENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer 

AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINJSTRATOR: Pahvel Chin 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner . 
CONTROLl..ER: Kevin Ryan 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Karie McKenna 

CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/ASST. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer .obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........... · .............................................631-4543 · observer.sports. l@n'd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINJSTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nJ..edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasa 

weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 

online featwa for spe­
and races of print ads 

cial campus coverage 
ardtlva to search for 

about The Observer 
articles published after 

to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, ~istanc Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free exprcs.sion ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. ~tters to the Editor must be signed and must include c.ontact information. 
Qµmions regarding Obsnwrpolicin slxnJJ be direct­ed to F.ditor in ChefMike Connolly. 
Find freedom in every facet of life 
It is a little past midnight and I am 
staring at my computer monitor won­
dering what it would really mean to 
be free. 
My idea of free­
dom is so radicaJly 
different from how 
everyone lives, 
including me, that 

it is extremely hard 
to do it justice. Our 
society is so far 
from freedom that 
it has purged the 
idea from our 
minds or pervert­
ed it beyond 
recognition. 
Perhaps the 
best starting 
place is to look at 
freedom's nega­
tion. Freedom's 

absence can be found in every inter­
action and in every institution. It is 
absent in the mind-numbingly boring 
conversations that we have about .courses, weather, sports. movies, tele­
vision or music. It is absent in the sur­
face-level pleasantness that hides our 
true desires for meaningful human 
interaction, in the legal and illegal 
drugs we use to escape reality and in 
the institutions that destroy our 
autonomy as they takeover our lives. 
Do you ever feel that you are just 
going through life's motions? This is 
because the few "choices" we have 
are meaningless. 

An example of a pathetic choice is 
deciding what you will do when you 
graduate. Ultimately most students 
expect to get a full-time job. Your 
"freedom" here is choosing which job 
you want. The unspeakable truth is 
that with a little ingenuity you can 
free yourself from full-time employ­
ment for higher pursuits. Start by liv­
ing simply. 

True freedom is so much more than 
avoiding being exploited at work. 
What would it mean if every social 
institution worked to create freedom 
and its twin, justice? What if society 
was designed to empower you? What 
if our culture of apathy was replaced 
by one that encouraged people to 
think critically and participate in 
shaping our social institutions? 
Narrowing our focus, what would 
freedom mean at a university? Where 
better to start building freedom than 
the place where we live, work, think, 
play and love? 

At Notre Dame, we are living in 
chains. A free university would have 
students who decided what they want­
ed to learn and how they wanted to 
learn it. Such an institution would be 
run by its members (faculty, staff and 
students) rather than a select group of 
elite staff. This goal might seem unre­
alistic, but there are high schools in 
the United States run by students who 
can vote on teachers and who have 
complete control over their curricu-lum. Forest in Wyoming to attend an Earth 

Onn result of our society's current First! gathering with several hundred approach to education is that voices of people. Waking up at 10 a.m. to the freedom are locked out of the curricu• sound of the morning howl, hanging lum, or papered over, from day one in out in the mostly vegan kitchen hop• elementary school. If we were to ing they would feed us, listening to study freedom, there are so many Peg Millet explain how she evad­things we could learn that would .,...-::;;;;..-......__ ed the FBI, hitchhiking by a 
teach us how to act. 
\Ve could study Marx, who inspired numerous revolu­tions. and the anarchist critique of why they failed. Maybe_we would examine how the labor movement won an eight hour day, the right to organize and half­decent conditions for working Americans -while the radical organizers were blacklisted, beat-up or killed by the state for their efforts. We might wonder why the United States gov­ernment was con­stantly over­throwing pro­gressive democ­ratic govern­ments during the past 50 years and disrupting every major social move­ment? Conveniently for 
.the rich people who rule our society and who just happen to fund our University endow­ment, we do not learn these things. 
To summarize, at Notre Dame we are confronted with thousands of rules -none of which are of our 
truck stop or an interstate or simply talking to others ­experienced freedom. Of course, that was but a temporary and per­sonal taste. 
Hitchhiking is not the answer, just one of a million possibilities. 
Permanent freedomh-has to include \:~ ~-everyone. If we are 
.e.1,~~ to really live, so .~~ &,'t•~~,_r~. th_at we do not ~ a'", ~ drn, so that we

1,( r,r t ~ ·\ are not slaves r...i.•-...•...,~~~-,-·, ' • · '\ i but free. then we · must resist. We must fight for freedom in our personal rela­tionships, in our university, in our jobs, in our communi­ties and in our world. We must trans­form all .rela­tionships that are based on domination or commodifica­tion (people as tools) into ones of liberation. This requires that we change on the personal level and partic­ipate in collec­
/ .. ,., ....... 
tive action to force oppressive
Le+ M'
TIA DC. institutions to change. I am say­fl\Et ing "we" since if
-

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Myra McGriff Kelly Hager Sports Katie McVoy Viewpoint Kurt Bogaard Scene Spencer Beggs 

Graphics 
Katie McKenna 
Production 
Katie McVoy 
Lab Tech 
Peter Richardson 
own making and few ;r,, 
.1 \

that we would choose. Our adminis­tration acts like the 
,._ . 

state and they do what t: . they wish, pushing as far as our ability to resist. The institution's goal is the transformation of youthful creative desiring beings into cogs in the post­industrial machine where we shall work for corporate profit. This means our transformation into commodities and ultimate alien­ation from ourselves. 
This summer, while I spent most of my waking hours bored and alienated out of my mind staring at this very computer screen, I also caught a fleet­ing taste of freedom. For my vacation, I hitchhiked to the Tetons National 
POLL QUESTION 
The Observer will discontinue either Dilbert or Fox Trot for the 2000-2001 publishing year. To vote for your favorite comic, please call 631-4541 before 5 p.m. today. 
Current Tally: Dilbert 50%, Foxtrot 50% 
you try this by 

yourself, without th1~ help of friends or an organization, you will fail. Working 
for ma! and total freedom is the hardest thing in the world that I can imagine doing, but I know it is the most worthwhile. 
This summer Aaron learned 
that hitchhiking is illegal in both Wyoming and Iowa -but generally tolerated. He can be reached at krei­der.1 @nd.edu. His column appears every other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"University politics are vicious precisely because the stakes are so small . ., 
Henry Kissinger politician 

-

. ----, 
O
THE 

Monday, September 3, 2001 BSERVER page 9 
7.3 pounds of pure solitaire-playing power 
One of life's most painful experiences, right up there with root canals and Core, is purchasing a new computer. Many freshmen have recently endured this trauma and because my brother went off to college this fall (awwwww), the 
Amy Schill

Schill family once 
again had the plea­sure of spending an 
Dazed and

entire Sunday after­noon searching for Amused 
7.3 pounds of pure solitaire-playing power. 
Now. when my parents bought me my laptop the process was fairly simple. We purchased my Compaq (the laughter begins) from the Notre Dame computer store (the laughter continues). This was a fantastic decision on our part because in exchange for paying an obscenely inflated price for a machine of limited capabilities you get a special desktop theme that plays "You got completely ripped off, Susie.. to the tune of the Notre Dame fight song every time you start up that piece of crap. 
But anyway, the hassle we went through getting my brother's laptop made me long for the convenience of Notre Dame's "Solution" Center. 
We made the search a big family outing. My parents wanted me to come along because they consider me the computer expert of the family. Now, truth be told, I know very little about them, but since I occasionally throw around high-tech phrases such as 128 MB RAM, Integrated 10Base-TnOOBase-TX Ethernet and mouse, the reckon me a regular Bill Gates, whoever that is. 
So here I was comparing prices, rebates and debating the necessity of a DVD play­er while my mom listened and my dad looked confused. My brother, incidentally, too~ absolutely no interest in the entire process, wandering around the store and occasionally checking in to break things. We decided on a laptop after a surprising­ly short period of time. I thought, "Great, now I'll have the rest of my Sunday to do more important things, like studying Scripture and watching "Jackass." But no, because Murphy's Law was about to strike: If something bad can happen, it will usually happen to Amy Schill. 
The first problem was trying to get help. Now someone actually did talk to us right away, but by the time we were ready to close the deal, our sales person was off helping someone else, who apparently needed the computer manual to be trans­lated into Greek. Fortunately. Aeschylus finished with his other customer just in time to tell us that our laptop of choice was out of stock. In fact, he told us. it's never actually in stock; it's just there to. you know, put drinks on. We were direct­ed to another store across town because by now, of course, my parents have decid­ed that my brother's entire future depends on their purchasing this exact 128 MB coaster. 
Upon arrival at Best Buy number two, however, they decided that the Compaq is actually all wrong for my brother and in fact causes lupus. The Sony is really what he needs. This is the part of the story where I start constructing nooses out of ethernet cables. In a complete reversal of our previous experience, we got help from an employee, in fact, we got too much help. My father heard the warranty sales pitch from. I'm not kidding, 16 different salespeople. With each offer, the warran• ty became progressively more impressive -at first guaranteeing free repairs and eventually including 20% off at Stuckey's. After rejecting the offer several times, my dad got a little, well, homicidal. In a voice which had a volume level rivaling that of TV car salesman with stopped up ears at a punk show, my father called for the heads of all employees, the manager and the CEO of Best Buy, Inc. During this tirade I tried m v best to wade as far away from aad's end of the gene pool as possible, which in this store would mean I ended up in movie soundtracks. 
\Vhile I debated whether my money would be better spent on the music from "Chocolat" or "Dude, Where's My Chocolat?" my dad stormed out and back into the store sever­al times, incensed that even the man­ager was trying to sell him the warranty (which now included a free car wash and a trip to Bermuda), pointing to stacks of boxes of broken computers whose owners failed to purchase the warranty. From what I could gather, failing to buy the warranty not only leaves your computer uninsured should it malfunction, but also causes it to implode immediately upon leaving the store. Troubled by this knowl­
edge, I made sure to get the $500 war• ranty for my Pootie Tang CD. Well, somehow, some way, that com­puter got purchased that day. My dad never budged on the warranty 
and we're all waiting patient• ly for the implosion. As for my own over-priced lap­top, I recently inquired 
at the Solution Center as to whether I could still purchase a warranty for it. 
Overcome with delight, the employee explained that the school pro­vided a warranty that fixed your computer, roofed 
your house, and guaranteed a national champi­

onship. Great, I thought. but how , about one that · ' insures the network will not go down this year? He laughed -there are some things that only a miracle can guarantee. 
Amy Schill is a junior English major who is very excited that Fruity Pebbles are in North Dining Hall this year. She can be reached at schill.2@nd.edu. Her column appears every other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
GUEST COLUMN 
Pro-life Democrats lack forum for views 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Vir. Wade." 
The list is long and impressive: Secretary of State Colin Several influential pro-life Republicans, including Powell, Environmental Protection Agency Director Arizona Sen. John McCain and Virginia's own Gov. Christie Todd Whitman, Pennsylvania Sen. Arlen Specter, James S. Gilmore III, have come out against repealing New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani, New York Gov. "Roe v. Wade." George Pataki, Pennsylvania Gov. However, the overall number of people who identified Tom Ridge, to name just a few. Brian Cook themselves as pro-choice was higher in 1997 than it was These prominent politicians from in 2000. These changes are not the result of public opin• all over the country have one thing ion, but rather of a party adapting it.self to include oppos• in common: They are all pro-choice Cavalier ing views of a contentious subject. 
Republicans. 
What about the other political Daily party, the one that stands for toler• ance and inclusiveness? Much to their political peril, the Democrats have all but shut 
out pro-lifers from their party. By silencing opponents of abortion in their own party, the Democrats risk alienating millions of voters who still grapple with this complex moral issue. The country still has yet to come to a consensus on the issue of abortion. The most recent Gallup poll has the issue as a dead heat, with the both sides garnering the support of 46 percent of Americans. Gallup polls over the past five years have shown a small lead for the pro-choice side: Anywhere from 41 to 46 percent of Americans consider themselves pro-life, while 46 to 50 percent consider themselves pro-choice. It's surprising to see that the Republicans 
Take the example of the late Gov. Hobert Casey, D-
Penn. From 1987 to 1995, he created jobs by putting mil­
lions of dollars into job training programs, and became 
the first governor to appoint a black woman to a state 
supreme court. 

.-::--______ Casey embraced most classical Democratic principles, but he was also pro-life. With that minor departure from the Democratic party platform, women's rights groups made Casey a pariah. He was not allowed to speak at the 1992 or 1996 Democratic National Conventions, despite being one of the most prominent and successful D(\mocrats at the time. Hmvever, the Democrats did see lit to honor Kathy Taylor. a Pennsylvania Republican, 
are more open about abortion than Democrats, con-at their 1992 convention. As a political sidering many conservatives' fervor on this issue. There enemy of the governor. she opposed most of Casey's is a campaign in the GOP now to eliminate the party's social programs and held traditionally Republican views pro.life platform. a move supported by former First Lady on most issues. She \Vas being honor~d at the Democratic Barbara Bush. Her daughter-in-law, current First Lady convention for one reason: she was pro-choice. Laura Bush. has stated that she supported ..Roe v. Pro-choice advocates have all but silenced opposition within the Democratic party. There currently are only 
two pro-life Democrats in the Senate, and nine in the 
House. The most prominent pro-life Democrat in 
Congress, Louisiana Sen. John Breaux, was offered a 
position in the Bush Cabinet. 
The 46 percent of Americans who currently identify themselves as pro-life likely are not happy with the cur­rent state of the Democratic Party. And as they alienate more and more voters with their exclusivity. the Democrats won't be happy either. 
The heavily Protestant Bible Belt, once considered a stronghold for Democrats, is now .1 sure win for Republicans. In the 2000 election, the Democrats lost every southern state, including Gore's home state of Tennessee. Altogether, Bush garnered more than 100 electoral votes from states east of' the Mississippi and south of the Potomac River. 
Also, the Catholic church has been whement in its opposition of abortion. In 1994, 52 percent of Catholics supported Republicans in congressional races, the high­est percentage in more than half a century. There are high concentrations of Catholic voters in Democratic­leaning states such as New York. Illinois and California. 
In the 1992 presidential election. 69 percent of Republican defectors were pro-choice. The Hepublican Party has wised up. and is starting to live up to its repu• tation as the "Big Tent" party. 
It is far past time for the Democratic Party to do the same. There are those who want to dictate the Democratic Party's admission policy based on one issue. 
McCain once said of the Republicans. "Tolerance of dissent is the hallmark of a mature party." \Vith such a difficult ethical matter as abortion. there should be enough room in the "inclusive" Democratic Party to allow differing views on the subject. 
This column.first ran on Aug. 31. in the University of Virginia newspaper, The Cavalier Daily. It appears here courtesy ofU-WIRE 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of'/1w Ohs,,ruer. 
·1 
....; 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

Monday, September 3, 2001 

page 10 





Scene gives you the lowdown on auditioning for upcomi, 
presenting "Othello" in the fall innovating perfor­
By C. SPENCER BEGGS 

and "Henry the IV part 1" next mances of emo­
Associate Scene Editor 

semester. Auditions for tion and move­"Othello" are slated for 5 to 10 ment. This yearIt happens every year: p.m. Sept. 10 and 11 in 204 they will presentthrongs of people crowd O'Shaugnessy Hall. Interested "2002 Dance around the shabby tack board actors do not need to prepare a Spectrum," which in Washington Hall holding monologue; the audition will is a work in their breath in anticipation, consist of a cold reading of a progress they last waiting for the cast lists of the part of the show. However, performed in first round of Department of actors can bring their own 1999. Adjunct Film, Television and Theater Shakespeare monologue to Professor Donald (PTT) shows to be posted. present if they wish. Strikeleather and Some cry out in joy when they The director of "Othello," former faculty of see that they have made the Matt Holmes, thinks that the the Art cut, others in anguish when NSRSC shows offer students a Department Kathy they find that they did not. But unique opportunity to partic­Ornish will reset most ask themselves, "There ipate in theater. "It's much the show and add were auditions already?" more laid back ... but it still a new section. So, you misse~ auditions for has the intensity of a larger Most notably, FTT shows? Well, don't pluck production," Holmes said. Kevin McGee a out your eyes just yet; Notre. "Also, it's a lot of fun." professionalDame and Saint Mary's offers a "Othello" will be presented in dancer and chore­
whole host of other theater contemporary dress and with a ographer in New groups that are dying to use minimalist set. Holmes says he York will also be your thespian talents. So, if want to keep the piece intimate joining the group you are the next Marlon so it can address the underly­this semester to Brando, Sarah Brightman or ing issues of the show. "It's work as an artist Lawrence Olivier there is still about faith and the explosion in residence. plenty of room in the campus caused by the failure of that "[The Workshop spotlight. faith," Holmes said. is] a chance to get 
NSRSC is also looking for stu­away from the The Not-So-Royal dents interested in participat­humdrum of the Shakespeare Company ing as assistant stage man­everyday... to For fans of the Bard, Notre agers, technical operators, set express what we Dame's own Not-So-Royal construction crew and light can throughShakespeare Company (NSRSC) designer/operator. Further music," Professor will give you your fix of iambic information can be found on lndi Dieckgrafe, 
pentameter. Revived by the NSRSC's website: the director of the show, said. "There's a variety of possibil­year's "Guy's and Dolls," direc­Shakespeare aficionado Chris www.nd.edu/-nsrsco. Students may remember ities," Dieckgrafe said of the tor Ryan Cunningham is taking Kudlacz in 1993, the NSRSC other performances by or in upcoming show. She plans to on Richard Adler, Jerry Ross, performs Shakespeare's works Saint Mary's College collaboration with the include a range of dance styles George Abbott and Douglass usually once a semester. Last Repertory /Performance Workshop such as "Gypsy" and including: ballet, modern, and Wallop's retelling of Goethe's year, the NSRSC brought down Dance Workshop "Oklahoma;" however, "Dance jazz. She also noted that stu­Faust. The show follows the the house with "The Comedy of dents may be interested to par­career of a baseball fan who
For the last 15 years, the Spectrum" will be much more 
Errors" in the fall and "Romeo Saint Mary's College focused on the dance aspect of ticipate in the Workshop's sells his soul to the charming and Juliet" in the spring. Repertory/Performance Dance the performance than other liturgical and sacred dance "Mr. Applegate" to play base­This year. the NSRSC will be Workshop has been presenting shows. program, which will be per-ball for the Washington 
forming at religious services Senators. throughout the year. Auditions for "Damn 
"2002 Dance Spectrum" will Yankees" will be held Sept. 17, be performed on Feb. 15, 16, 18 and 19 at 8 p.m. in the and 17. Auditions are sched­Pasquerilla East lounge. The uled for today, Monday, Sept. audition process will consist of 5, at 7 p.m. in Regina Dance three sections. First, students studio on the Saint Mary's will audition their singing voic­campus. Men are welcome to es. The audition music will be audition; dance background is located in the reserve book not essential but it is pre­room in the Hesburgh Library ferred. Participation in the after Activities Night on Workshop also awards credit, Tuesday. It is not necessary to which varies depending upon memorize the music, but it the level of involvement and may be helpful. The second commitment. part of the audition will be a 
cold reading from the show. The Pasquerilla East Musical Finally, audition groups will be Company taught dance steps and then 
Some people can express present them to the director. themselves in words. Others Auditions are open to all stu­have to burst into a full-blown dents; regardless of in which song with an accompanying dorm they live. Further infor­choreographed dance. If you mation can be found on the are the latter, the Pasquerilla group's website: East Musical Company (PEMC) www.nd.edu/-pemusic. is your cup of do re mi. Cunningham thinks "Damn 
Founded in 1997 by Yankees" will be one of the Pasquerilla East resident Kelly best shows on campus this McGann, the PEMC is the only year. Of course, it's not the student-run organization that result that always counts. "I produces musicals on campus. have found nothing in my col­In fact, it is the only organiza­lege experience so far that has tion that will produce a musi­bonded me [with other people] cal this year. like putting on a musical," 
After the success of last Cunningham said. 


O
THE BSERVER 

Monday, September 3, 2001 page 10 
spoti 

ng student theater events on campus 
Kevin Lavelle, King of HA!, puts it, "We offer spiritual direction of the most cor­poreal sense." 
HA! performs its shows about three times a year. There are no auditions for the group, although there are sometimes auditions within the group before a show to decide who will be in a skit. To join HA! one can sign up at Activities Night, or simply show up to a meeting. 
At HA! nothing is sacred, every person, thing, and ideal is fair game. HA! beats, batters and gives a linguistic wedgie to their targets for the sadistic general amusement of the masses. Or perhaps as Lavelle said, in a rare moment of seriousness, "HA! is a creative release. It gives us a chance to get all our quirks out in the open." 
The theater at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is open to any students inter­ested in performing. Scene will update audition infor­mation as it becomes avail­able. In the immortal words of Shakespeare, "All Notre Dame is a stage... " or something like that. 
Contact C. Spencer Beggs at beggs.3@nd.edu. 

Photo Courtesy of Ryan Cunningham The Pasquerilla East Musical Company presented "Guys and Dolls" last year. Tryouts for this year's musical "Damn Yankees" begin Sept. 17. 
A backstage look at SMC theater 
By KATIE McVOY Scene Writer 
It's almost that time of year again. Your knees are knocking, your palm are clammy, you're sweating bullets. No, you don't have to find an SYR date; it's time to audition. Auditions can be very unnerving, even for the seasoned veteran. But for the inexperienced actor, walking into an audition can feel like your worst night­mare. So let's take a minute to walk through a normal audition at Saint Mary's. 
Auditioning for a play 
Due to its size and resources, 
large-scale musicals are often out 
of the question at Saint Mary's. 
Generally, therefore, an actor 
faces an audition for a play with a 
relatively small cast, less than 10 
people. Auditioning for this type 
of production at Saint Mary's fol­
lows a general pattern starting on 
a Wednesday night and wrapping 
up Monday morning with the post­
ing of the cast list. 
Auditions are usually held in the acting studio, although this year's audition will be held in the Little Theatre. Directors will make the script available before auditions, although it is not a requirement to have a working knowledge of a show. A director will generally structure an audition so that both those who have prepared and those who have not prepared can still take part. 
Once an actor is ready to audi­tion, she may face several differ­ent types exercises, including reading from the script, improvi­sations and trust exercises with various other auditioning actors. According to Mark Abram­Coppenhaver, who will be direct­ing this semester's production of "My Mother Said I Never Should," audition exercises are designed to make the director aware of an actor's chemistry. 
"I look at the psycho-physical rhythm of the actor [that] is the rhythm of their speech, their voice, the way that they use their body and sometimes the way that they think. I try to design exercis­es or improvs that help me divine that, because if I match the rhythm of the actor to the rhythm of the character, I have a better chance of the actor being able to create a successful character," Abram-Coppenhaver. 
Exercises that help a director discover this kind of information can range from a revised version of the "telephone game" to play­ing scenes or trying out some modern dance while the director watches. Each director will create her own method of auditioning to provide her with a feel of an actor's skill, flexibility, work ethic and ability. 
What about looks? Years of watching Hollywood movies have conditioned us to believe that an actor's looks will often decide what rolls she will play. However, on stage, and in an educational environment in particular, looks play a much smaller role. For 
Abram-Coppenhaver, looks fall far 
down on the list behind nearly 
everything else. 

Once an actor completes her 
Wednesday or Thursday night 
audition, comes what could be 
called the worst part of audition­
ing -waiting. Anyone who has 
auditioned can sympathize with 
the mental playback of the audi­
tion that is a constant from the 
time of the first audition until the 
callback list goes up. What she 
could have done better, what the 
look on the director's face was 
when she was done and what the 
other actors did well are on the 
long list of worries that fill the 
brain following an audition. Then 
the cast list goes up. . 

Should an actor find herself on a callback list, she will probably have to forgo her party plans in order to attend a Friday night audition. A callback audition brings with it very different needs for both the director and the actor. If an actor is called back it is because the director has found in her someone who could fulfill a role. Now he must look at the chemistry between the actors. The success of any show, in part, relies on a working chemistry between the actors on stage. 
"One of the things the folks auditioning for a show don't real­ize is how many dynamics are in play," Abram-Coppenhaver said. "It's not that that person would not be able to do the role, but often, I have only one role to give so I have to balance out so many different factors.'' 
Callbacks often involve more readings than a first audition will. After sending the actors home for the weekend -to wait -the director has his work cut out for him. He has to make a decision. 
Auditioning for a musical 

Auditioning for a musical brings with it additional demands on both actors and directors. Last year's "Gypsy" auditions were structured very differently from the usual laid back auditions that have accompanied the beginnings of other productions. More work before the audition was required of each and every actor interested in auditioning. Each actor was required to prepare two songs and a monologue. Choosing pieces to prepare is a major decision for any actor. She must look for a piece that will demonstrate her ability and lend itself to which ever part for which she is looking to audition. An actor generally has the option to provide a taped accompaniment for her song or to have the musical director of the show play an accompaniment. 
After the first audition, the audi­tion process is generally the same. Callbacks are again more specific. usually using a piece from the show, trying out each actor's voice with a particular part. Casting may take longer than the weekend in a large, complex show. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 


The St. Edward's Hall Players 
While St. Ed's men do tend to be known as ladies• men, the s t Edward's H a I I Players {SEHP) are, in fact, a theater group. Last year, the group pre­sented "I H a t e Hamlet." This year, the SEHP will be pre­senting Neil Simon's outrageous situation comedy "Rumors." 
"Rumors" 

is the story of a high-class dinner party at which the would­be host has suspiciously been shot in the head, just a flesh wound of course. His lawyer decides to cover up to incident. Of course, his lies piles on top of each 
other and the situation becomes increasingly absurd. 
President of the SEHP and "Rumors" director Matt Lee, of "Oedipus Rex" fame, is a big comedy fan. "We're going to have peo­ple falling in the isles when they see this show," Lee said. 
Auditions for "Rumors" will be Tuesday, Oct. 30 and Wednesday, Oct. 31 ­the week after fall break. The SEHP will provide materials for a "semi-cold read." Times and location will be announced closer to the audition dates. The show will be presented in Washington Hall the first weekend of February. 
Lee thinks the SE HP gives students more free­dom to utilize their theatri­cal abilities. "If you think you are interested in com­edy, this show is for you," Lee said. 
The University of Notre Dame Humor Artists 
If you are truly in the mood for something differ­ent, the University of Notre Dame Humor Artists (HA!) is perhaps you best bet. HA! specializes in sketch and improvisational come­dy. HA! attempts to bring a little absurdity into the Notre Dame bubble or as 
Monday, September 3, 2001 

page 12 The Observer . SPORTS 
f 
OFFICIALS NEEDED for baseball, OFFICIALS NEEDED for baseball, IN-HOME NANNY needed to care Gently used loveseat + chair. ND tickets for sale. Lowest prices. sofball, flag football and indoor softball, flag football and indoor for infant. Must have transportation. Taupe w/ muted pinstripes; wood 232-0964 lacrosse. Experience preferred for lacrosse. Experience preferred for Experience with infants and refer-trim -'Broyhill' $150 674-6150
LOST AND FOUND 
baseball officials. Great opportunity baseball officials. Great opportunity ences required. Congact Dr. GA Tix 4 Pitt gm 271-1654 
to earn good money. to earn good money. Contact Knoedler at 631-4262 or aJsrum: Futon w/solid wood frame $500. Missing since Monday: green back-RecSports office, Tara Fisher or dle@nd.edu. Krups cappucino & coffee maker Buying some / Selling a few extra pack from left side of SDH. Contact RecSports office, Tara Jeff Walker at 631-6100 or stop by $70. N.D. Football Tickets Contained birth certificate; back• Fisher or Jeff Walker at 631-6100 the office In the Rolfs Sports Rec Seeking student for part time repre-Sony cordless phone & answering pack has ribbons pinned to front, or stop by the office in Rolfs Sports Center. You can also email us at sentation on campus for screen machine $30. 219-289-8048 camouflage green bandana tied to Rec Center. recsport@nd,edu print & embroidery company. Flex 277-0666. handle. Reward! hrs and flex pay. Need 3 A$M tix ASAP. Will take 2. 
:~ 
You can also email us at rec-ON CALL BABYSITTER NEEDED. Call Pat at 277-2243. 
l I 
\ Call Katie @ 4-1177 sport@nd.edu NEAR ND. Call Dave at 800-813-2113. 
A businessman needs football sea-LOST WHITE GOLD NUGGET FOR DETAILS CALL 273-2872. After school care for two children, 3 FOR RENT son tickets 'GAs only* Will buy NECKLACE. PAOBABL Y NEAR EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOP· pm • 5:30 pm. Good pay! Please individual games 277-1659 ) REGINA HALL AT SAINT MARY'S. MENT CENTER PAID OPPORTU-WANTED: call Lisa 631-9947 or 277-8564. HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM­GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE. NITIES Highly organized, experienced legal PUS! For Sale Navy, WVA, Pitt, GAs 654· THIS IS INSURED SO WE WILL secretary or assistant to Pl trial Mmmrentals.com 0168 BE PAID IF NOT SURRENDERED. Earn money and build resume lawyer for new, spacious offices Email: mmmrentals@aol.com BUT WE WANT IT BACK, experience while interacting with next to Notre Dame campus; hours 
FOR SALE
PLEASE. delightful young children. The Early flexible; competitive pay and bene-THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Childhood Development Center at fits. Call 231-1868 and leave mes-Breakfast Inn has space available 
PERSONAL

CALL 765-659-4928. HANDSOME Saint Mary's College is currently sage. This terrific one bedroom condo in for football/parent wknds. 5 rooms REWARD. NO QUESTIONS accepting applications from college Woodbridge Condominiums is close with private baths. $80-$115, ASKED. students for part time employment WANTED: enough to walk to ND. Why rent? Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. SENIORS: 
positions at lunch time. The hours Assistant to trial layer with desktop Own this for $62,900! Toll Road Exit #107. 1-800-418-Senior Portraits taken until Sept. Lost: New Mexico driver's license. available include MWF 11 :25 a.m. publishing skills for new spacious Contact Prudential One Realty or 9487. 21. Sign up now@ Reward if found. -1:15 p.m. offices next to Notre Dame campus; Cherie TeAoller at 284-2600. www.L.aureosJudiQs.r.;Q!!.l while 
part-time or flexible hours; competi-there is still space available. If you are interested in applying, tive hourly wage. LOUD 3-way speakers. 125 w. ea. Call 272-5284 please contact Kari Alford, Program Call 231-1868 and leave message. 12" drivers. $250 obo/pari. Interested in going to Nebraska? 1
·TICKETS 

Director at ECDC·SMC at 284-4693 Call Mike 4-4695 night hotel, chartered bus, food, tor more information and an appli• ROOMMATE WANTED: drinks, DJ, tailgate, TVs to watch cation. Northshore Condo, 1428 Marigold BUY-SELL game. Game tix on your own. 
Campus View Apartments Way near ND, 1 bdr, 1 bath, LR, ND FOOTBALL TICKETS Call Aaron for info at 289-9005 LOVE KIDS? Private bedroom & PRIVATE DA & kitchen w/ appliances. 1 car 272-6619
WANTED 
WANT TO EARN GOOD $$ BATHROOM!!! Large kitchen. Free garage. $69,000. Hey Mod Quad ­BUT ONLY WORK A FEW HOURS parking. $282.5/month. GA's 4 USC, MSU, TN, WVA 271· I missed you guys tonight! Can't A WEEK? Call Doris at 254-1772 for more 1654 wait to see the new fireplace. Hey ­
RESPONSIBLE, QUALITY CHILD-Contact me at guw@nd,edu. info. did you break down the door yet? CARE NEEDED in my home for 3 Area family needs individual to care Emergency call: 219-243-2383 WANTED-ND TICKETS year old & 7 month old. Monday for our two daughters Mon-Fri from Beautiful brass bed, queen size, 289-9280 A and A • you guys are the best! thru Thursday 2:30 pm -5 pm. 1 3•6pm starting mid-Sept. Mom PET REFUGE, a no-kill animal with orthopedic mattress set. All Have a good one! Saturday a month. Own transporta-attends grad school in Chicago. shelter just 10 min from campus, new, never used, still in plastic. ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED tion required. 5 mins from ND. Girls are fun and delightful! urgently needs FOSTERS and $235. A.M. 232-2378 P.M. 288-2726 Kendall ­Major in early childhood develop-Transportation needed. Generous VOLUNTEERS for its cats and 219-862-2082. I'm jealous of your lack of disfunc• ment or child psychology a plus. pay! dogs. NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TIX tion. Can you teach me how you do References required. Please e-mail webmaster@petre-60x30desk FOR SALE it? Please! 
If interested, please call Karen fuge.r,;gm, visit www,Qetrefuge,r,;Qm. 60x30x72 desk +ottlce chairs. A.M. 232-2378 can 288-6795. Stonehill at 272-5013. or call 256-0886. 287-3373 ask for Cindy. P.M. 288-2726 Merideth -Ralph missed you 
Soccer 
continued from page 20 
torically has come in and made some things happen with the intensity of her play... 
The half-time adjustments certainly paid dividends for the Irish. In the second half, the Irish came out much more aggressively and began to dom­inate the game. The speed of Notre Dame's forwards accom­panied with some strong ball control by midfielders Mia Sarkesian, Kim Carpenter and R a n d i Scheller 
wore down "/ was surpised to win t h e 
[defensive MVP]. rm glad
Hartford 
we won our first two
defenders. After a few games, but we still have scoring 
a lot ofwork to do to get
opportuni­
where we need to be.,,

ties early in the second half, the Vanessa Pruzinsky
Irish's per­
junior defenseman 
s is ten c e finally paid off when Tulisiak scored. 
While Notre Dame's offense came alive in the second half, the Irish defense continued its dominance. 
Irish goalie Liz Wagner only had to make four saves the entire game to shut out the Hawks thanks to the strong play by junior Vanessa Pruzinsky. seniors Monica Gonzales and Lindsey Jones, 
and  freshman  Gudrun  
Gunnarsdottir.  
Wagner,  Pruzinsky,  

Sarkesian, and Tulisiak were named to the Key Bank Classic All Tournament Team. 
Pruzinsky was also named the defensive MVP of the Key Bank Classic in helping the Irish yield only one goal 0ver the course of the two game tournament. 
"I was surprised to win the award," said Pruzinsky. 'Tm glad we won our first two games, but we still have a lot of work to do to get where we need to be." 
The Irish defeated two top 25 teams amidst a string of injuries. For the second straight game, Irish forward Melissa Tancredi was held out of action because of a nagging knee injury while midfielder Ashley Drier did not play as she is still recovering from a bout 
with mononu­cleosis. Freshman Mary Bolton, the star of Notre Dame's win over Penn State on Friday, also did not play as a result of a knee injury she suf­fered after col­liding into a 
Penn State player in the waning sec­

onds of game. Bolton's status for the rest of the season will be determined within the next few days. 
The victory for the Irish marked a school record 28th straight home win. Notre Dame is only five victories shy of breaking the NCAA record for the most consecutive home vic­tor,ies. The Irish will look to extend the streak next weekend as they play host to Indiana at 7 p.m. Friday night at Alumni Field and Wisconsin at 1 p.m. on Sunday. 
Contact Joe Licandro at joseph.r.licandro.l@nd.edu. 

Freshman forward Candice Chapman chases after a University of Hartford player on Sunday. The Irish won Sunday's game after a slow first half. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 
024 Sourh Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Monday, September 3, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
No. I Florida crushes Marshall 49-14 
starters, running back Franklin 
Associated Press Wallace and nose tackle 
Marlan Hicks, and two key
GAINESVILLE. Fla. 

reserves, as the Herd learnedRex Grossman looked like the of several NCAA suspensions
right choice at quarterback, 
Thursday.
and Florida put on an opening­The suspensions, for improp­night show worthy of its No. 1 erly receiving extra benefits,ranking. 
may have demoralized
Grossman set his career high 
Marshall, but with the way
by halftime and finished with Florida played, it was doubtful
37 5 yards passing Saturday 
four players would have madenight to lift the Gators to a 49­a difference.
14 victory over undermanned 
"We're not going to use thatMarshall. 
as an excuse," Pruett said. "ItThe sophomore quarterback, certainly was a distraction. We who won the job over Brock spent very few minutes work­Berlin this offseason. threw for 
ing on football the last few
three touchdowns and Earnest days."
Graham scored three times as 
Grossman looked like the
the Gators improved to 12-0 in 
right choice for the quarter­
openers under Steve Spurrier. 
back position, completing 20 of
"It was a good throw-and­30 passes, and decipheringcatch night for our guys," Marshall's soft zones for big
Spurrier said. "Rex threw the 
chunks of yardage.
ball well. and the receivers His favorite receiver last
caught pretty doggone well." 
year, Jabar Gaffney, caught five No opening-day opponent in 
passes for 102 yards, but the
recent times has come to 
biggest completions went to
Florida with the pedigree of the other receivers.
Thundering Herd, the four-time 
Midway through the seconddefending Mid-American 
quarter, Grossman looked help­Conference champions. 
less as Marshall linebackerBut through a dominating 
Max Yates chased him toward
first half, the Gators made 
the sideline on a fourth-and-5.
Marshall look just like -or 
But the quarterback found
sometimes worse than -all Robert Gillespie streakingthe Ball States, Citadels and 
across the field, hit him in
Southwestern Louisianas who stride, then watched Gillespiehave rolled into The Swamp, 
hoping for an opening-day break two tackles for a 27 -yard pair of touchdowns to pull Seven players had sacks for 4:03 left as No. 7 Oregon rallied upset. score that made it 28-0. away. Nebraska. to beat No. 22 Wisconsin 31-28 Late in the first half, "At halftime we just got The Huskers led 28-14 at Saturday night in the Ducks'
Somebody asked Marshall 
Grossman spotted Taylor season opener.
coach Bob Pruett, the former everything down and came out halftime and finally pulled Gators defensive coordinator. if Jacobs running downfield with the attitude we weren't away with two touchdowns in "Yeah, I like that young 
he thought that was the best through a broken coverage. going to give them anything," the second half. Nebraska had man,'' Oregon coach Mike team he would see this year. They connected, and when cornerback DeJuan Groce said. a chance at two more TDs, but Bellotti said. "Joey's the cata­"I hope so," Pruett said. Jacobs outran Yancey Dahrran Diedrick rushed for was stopped twice in the fourth lyst." Satterwhite to the corner of the 177 yards and three touch­quarter on fourth-and-goal The Ducks improved to 13-0
"They might be the best team 
anybody sees all year long." end zone, Grossman had sur­downs in his first start, and from inside the 5. under Bellotti in non-confer­It wasn't all because of passed his career passing Eric Crouch and Thunder Diedrick was suspended for ence home games, and 13-1 in Grossman. record of 334 yards. Collins each added TDs for the the season opener against TCU games decided by a touchdown Pass-rush specialist Alex Huskers, who are home again last week because of his arrest or less. Brown, who chose to stay for Nebraska 42, Troy State 14 next week against Notre Dame. for failure to disperse from a "You expected anything else Nebraska finished with 457 disturbance outside a bar the from us?" said Harrington, who 
his senior season, had two For a team that had just 25 
sacks, as did Andra Davis, the sacks a year ago, Nebraska yards of offense after having to weekend before. He gave the improved to 15-2 as Oregon's senior linebacker who missed rally from a surprising 7-0 Huskers a 35-14 lead when he starter after engineering his
·seems to have solved the prob­last year with a knee injury. lem. deficit. Crouch rushed for 48 broke through on a run up the eighth career fourth-quarter "It felt great to finally be out The No. 4 Cornhuskers had yards on 15 carries and was 8-middle and took it 33 yards for comeback win. 
Harrington was hardly per­

on the field with my teammates eight sacks while holding for-15 for 109 passing yards. his third TD with 6:26 left in 
Collins had 11 carries for 52 the third quarter. fect, throwing two interceptions for the real thing," Davis said. Division 1-A newcomer Troy yards. "I'm really happy with the and completing just 22 of 4 7 Playing almost exclusively State to 165 yards of offense in Brock Nutter, who had never way things went today," passes, but his leadership inwith seven defensive backs, a 42-14 victory Saturday. 
been sacked more than five Diedrick said. "We didn't make crucial situations made him live Florida confused quarterback "I think the whole front four 
Byron Leftwich and forced got sacks. That's big-time for times in three previous years as any mental errors. I'm glad for up to his summer-long Marshall to pick and poke its us," said tackle Jon Clanton, a starter, was 15-for-36 for 190 the numbers but I'm more Heisman hype. Oregon spent way downfield to little avail. who returned a fumble 20 yards with a touchdown for the happy for a win." $250,000 to put Harrington's 
Marshall's only big play came yards for a touchdown off of Trojans (0-1). who finished image on a 10-story-tall bill­in the third quarter, when one of the sacks. with minus-25 yards rushing. Oregon 31, Wisconsin 28 board in midtown Manhattan. Leftwich hit Darius Watts for a The Huskers (2-0}, who held "We shut down the run, made Erratic at times but brilliant "I always feel we're in the 62-yard score that cut the TCU to 187 yards of offense in them throw the ball and made when he had to be, Oregon game. I knew we could take 
deficit to 35-6. Leftwich fin­the season opener, needed a them throw it in a hurry," said quarterback Joey Harrington them down the field," ished 27-for-43 for 27 4 yards solid defensive performance for defensive end Chris Kelsay, played nearly as big as his Harrington said. 
The Badgers (1-1) came back

-stats largely padded during the second week. who had two sacks. "I don't gaudy New York City billboard. 
garbage time in the second Nebraska allowed just two know too many people who Harrington threw two touch­from a 10-0 first-quarter deficit didn't get a sack today. That and took the lead three times in 
half. total yards in the second half as down passes and scored on a 1­Marshall played without two Nebraska's offense added a really feels good." yard fourth-down leap with the second half. But their 
chances ended when quarter­



back Jim Sorgi fumbled after being hit by Quinn Dorsey with 
3:34 left. Oregon's Kevin Mitchell recovered at the Wisconsin 33. 

The Badgers got the ball back and had one last chance, ­but on fourth-and-10 from the Ducks' 47, Sorgi's pass over the middle was dropped by Nick Davis with 58 seconds left. 
"For a young football team in a tough environment, I thought they hung in there well and gave us a chance to win," Wisconsin coach Barry Alvarez said of his team. 
Bollinger didn't dress because of a bruised liver, suf­fered on a hit last week. He spent two days in the hospital. 

Attention Fulbright Applicants 
Students applying for the 2002-2003 Fulbright Schol~rship competition should attend a meeting to learn the process for applying through the campus committee. 
Thursday, September 6th 4:00pm room 11 7, Haggar Hall 
Ifyou are unable to attend this meeting, information may be obtained at the Fellowship Office in room 99 O'Shaughnessy 
INDIANA AUTO RATES 
COULD SAVE YOU MONEY 289-1993 
idaveood@aol.com 
John Davenport ( near cam pus) 


.; 
page 14 
Football 
continued from page 20 

ing team against the scout team. Here, the coaches hoped to work on game strategies designed to stop the potent Nebraska offense. 
But on Friday, the coaches pitted the first string offense against the starting defense. Although the Irish ran offensive plays similar to those in Nebraska's play­book and set up in defensive formations used by the Huskers. the primary pur­pose of the scrimmage was to cut down on the number of mistakes Davie saw in the first scrimmage. 
''I'm happy that we're able to come out here on a Friday night and scrimmage ... good players against good players," said Davie. "We didn't back off at all. We didn't go the best against the rest and get into a pillow fight out here. It was a full-speed, contact scrimmage." 
"We're up for it and the team's excited to get in there and compete against each other," said quarterback Matt Lovecchio. "We just treat it like a real game." 
In both scrimmages, the Irish did everything possible to simulate actual 
,. game conditions. All the pre-game rituals 
i, from the meal to the workouts were the
i, 
same routine the Irish will follow Saturday night. While the actual scrim­mages were going on, the giant speakers inside Notre Dame Stadium blared crowd noise to simulate the hostile conditions of Nebraska's Memorial Stadium. 
And both scrimmages began at 7 :00 ­the same time the Irish will kick off against the Huskers this Saturday, all as part of an attempt to get as close as pos­sible to an actual game. 
"We did the best we could to simulate a real game," Lovecchio said. "Just going through the whole routine like it's Sept. 8 is a good way to get our team pre-
The Observer . SPORTS Monday, September 3, 2001 
pared." 

Davie has been pleased that the Irish have been able to scrimmage -it has given him and the rest of the coaches the opportunity to find the areas that need work. 
"I feel very, very fortunate to get this kind of work the Friday before our first game," he said. 
Through the scrimmages. players like cornerback Jason Beckstrom have per­formed well enough to earn starting roles. Others, like tight end John Owens, who pulled in a touchdown pass Friday night, have been able to distinguish themselves by making solid contributions on the field. 
But as much as Davie cares about the performance of his team during the scrimmages, he's much more concerned with preventing injuries. Although he it was critical for the Irish to scrimmage, Davie had to weigh the benefits of scrim­maging with the possibility that someone could get hurt. 
"If a key player goes down, that's going to impact your football team," he said. "We made a decision that we had to scrimmage. There's no way we can take a football team to Lincoln, Nebraska and have a chance to win -particularly with them having two games -unless we rolled the dice and scrimmaged." 
With Friday night's scrimmage behind them, the Irish now shift their focus towards beginning actual game prepara­tions for Saturday night's season opener. 
And with the Irish avoiding any major injuries, Davie is glad the Irish scrim­maged twice. 
"Was it perfect?" he asked. "No. Was it anything to jump up and down about? No. But all things considered, just to be able to do it was a positive and to get out of here without any injuries is good." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 

Senior running back Tony Fisher receives a pass under the watchful eye of sophomore Vontez Duff. 
GET INVOLVED! 

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 4 
7:00 PM -9:00 PM 
JOYCE CENTER FIELDHOUSE (ENTER THROUGH GATE 9) 
CHECK OUT THE LISTING OF THE 250+ PARTICIPATING CLUBS, ORGANIZATIONS AND SERVICE AGENCIES ON-LINE AT: 
http://www.nd.edu/---sao/an/ 
Monday, September 3, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
BASEBALL 
Irish promote O'Connor 
. Seven-year veteran earns associate position 
Special to the Observer 
Notre Dame's Brian 
O'Connor has been promoted 
to the position of associate 
head baseball coach, following 
seven seasons as the Irish 
baseball program's primary 
assistant coach. 
O'Connor's duties will 
remain the same on head 
coach Paul Mainieri's staff, 
continuing to serve as the 
team's pitching coach and 
recruiting coordinator. 
"Every success that we've had at Notre Dame the past seven years has as much to do with Brian's efforts as anyone else," said Mainieri, who hired O'Connor shortly after becom­ing the Irish head coach in the fall of 1994. 
"I saw something special in Brian as a 23-year-old and he currently is unparalleled in the country because of his ability as a recruiter and eval­uator of talent, combined with his ability to consistently develop pitchers at the college level. He also is a very clever game technician and gets the most out of his pitching staff game-in and game-out. He has the special ability to observe a pitcher, see what he does well, and make minor adjustments to increase effectiveness. " 
0 'Connor, who pitched on Creighton's 1991 College World Series team has tutored 13 eventual professional base­ball pitchers, including 10 Major-League draft selections. The native of Council Bluffs, Iowa, has a proven track record of developing pitchers into top-level prospects, including a pair of first-round selections-Brad Lidge in 1998 and fellow righthander Aaron Heilman in 2001. 
During O'Connor's tenure, seven of nine Irish players that were drafted out of high school have gone on to be drafted in a higher round at Notre Dame while 13 that were undrafted as preps went on to be drafted as members of the Irish program. 
O'Connor's most noteworthy pupil has been Heilman, whose four-year All-America career saw him rank as one of the nation's premier players. Heilman, who burst onto the scene as the nation's ERA leader in 1998 (1.61), is the most decorated player in 
Notre Dame baseball history and became the 14th player in Division I history to reach 40 career wins and 400 strikeouts. 
As a recruiting coordinator, O'Connor led the 
"Every success that we ·ve had at Notre Dame the past seven years has as much to do with Brian's efforts as anyone else.·· 
Paul Mainieri Notre Dame head coach 
effort that landed Notre Dame's current 11-member freshman class-which could be ranked as high as the nation's top incoming class. 
That highly-touted group includes shortstop Matt Macri, who also could be used as a closer, due to his 94 mph velocity off the mound, and righthander Chris Niesel. with both those players considered by some to be the nation's best 
freshmen at their respective positions. 
Most recently, the 30-year­old O'Connor helped the 2001 Notre Dame team compile one of the most successful seasons in the program's 109-year his­tory. 
The Irish held the nation's No. 1 ranking in midseason while setting the team record for wins (49-13-1). Led by the first team all-Big East tandem of Heilman and Tamayo, the 2001 Irish pitching staff ranked sixth in the nation with a 3.22 season earned-run average. An unprecedented six Irish players were selected in the 2001 Major League draft. 
During O'Connor's seven years at Notre Dame, the Irish have posted a .710 winning pct. (304-124-1} and have 
totaled four conference titles, four trips to the NCAA tourna­ment, 29 players who have been drafted or signed free­agent con­tracts, and 10 players selected in the first 10 rounds of the 
Major League draft-while extending the program's string of consecutive seasons with 40-plus wins to 13, the nation's fourth-longest active streak. 
The past seven Notre Dame teams also have combined for a 100 percent graduation rate (47 of 47), among players who completed their eligibility or signed professionally after their junior year. 
NOTRE DAME GOLF 
Ratay leads campus open 
Special to the Observer 

Senior Steve Ratay owns a one-stroke lead over fresh­man Steve Colnitis and a two-stroke lead over fresh­man K.C. Wise-man and 
sopho­m o r e Gavin Ferlic after 36 holes of N o tr e Dame's annual 


campus 

Ratay
champi­
onship at 

the Warren Golf Course. 
For the women, junior Terri Taibl has a three­stroke edge over sophomore Shannon Byrne at the halfway point of the tourna­ment. The third round will be played on Sept. 8 begin­ning at 9:00 a.m. and the event is free and open to the public. 
Ratay kept his narrow lead after firing his second con­secutive 73, giving him a two-day total of 146. Colnitis put the pressure on Ratay by firing the low-round of the tournament with a 68. The freshman went out in 33 on the front nine and finished with a 35 on the back. He owns a 36-hole total of 147 after his opening round of 79 on Saturday. 
The South Bend natives, Wiseman and Ferlic, played their second solid day as Wiseman shot a 73 and Ferlic a 72 for 148 totals to finish the day just two strokes off Ratay's pace. 
Rounding out the top 10 
for the men were Chris 
Whitten who is just three 
strokes behind Ratay with 
rounds of 7 3 and 76 for a 
149. Kevin Ricci is in sixth with a 152 total (75-77). William Mccaughan is sev­enth with a 153 mark (79­74). Andy Vitt shot a second round of 76 for a 156 total which puts him eighth. Brandon Lunke goes into the final 36 holes in ninth with a 157 (81-76) while Patrick Mokris and Fernando Herrera are tied for 10th, 12 strokes behind Ratay with 158. 
On the women's side, Taibl turned in her second consec­utive round of 78 to give her a 156 total after 36 holes. The top challenger for the junior came from Byrne,who turned in the best round of the tournament for the women with a 74 on Sunday. That puts her three behind Taibl with a 159 total after her opening round 85. 
Kristin McMurtrie who started the day two strokes behind Taibl struggled to an 84 which gives her a 164 total after 36 holes and puts her eight strokes off the pace. She is tied for fourth with freshman Karen Lotta who bounced back from an 86 on Saturday to shoot 78 on Sunday for a 164. Jeanne Murphy and Casey Rotella round out the top six golfers as ,they are tied for fifth with 168 totals. Murphy shot an 81 on Sunday while Rotella turned in a 79. 

... just come to 1st Source. As the area's leading financial institution, we can offer you unparalleled convenience, competitive products and pricing, and a level of service second to none. Convenience • With over 50 banking centers and ATMs in the area, 1st Source is everywhere you might be. Visit our full-service office in the Haggar College Center at Saint Mary's, complete with ATM, or use one of our other convenient ATMs in the Hesburgh Library or at LeMans Hall. Internet Banking • With 1st Source Bank's Online banking service for students, BankOnCampus.com, you can check your balances, transfer money between accounts, and even pay bills. For all the details visit us online or drops us an e-mail at bankoncampus@lstsource.com. Electronic Funds Transfer • Expecting money from home? 1st Source can make getting money from home fast and easy by arranging to have the money transfered to you electronically. When it comes to banking, 1st Source has you covered. So save your prayers for a real crisis -like finals! Saint Mary's Banking Center • 235-2019 M-Th • 10:00 to 4:00 F • 10:00 to 4:30  




page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, September 3, 2001 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles drop 3, take 
1 in tournament 

By MATT MOONEY 

Spons Writer 
The seven freshmen on the Saint Mary's volleyball team didn't have to wait long for their first college road trip. Facing the team's first competition of the year, the Belles traveled to Saint Ambrose College in Davenport, Iowa as part of a seven-team preseason tournament. 
In a quasi-round robin format, Saint Mary's played four teams in two days, finishing the week­end with a 1-3 record. 
The tournament began on Friday with the team's only con­test of the day coming against Saint Ambrose. The Belles dropped the match to the Bees 21-30, 23-30, 23-30. 
Seeking to avenge Friday's loss. Saint Mary's took the court Saturday against Marycrest International. Despite trailing early and often, the team recov­ered each time. All three games proved to be tight, but Saint Mary's managed a sweep, win­ning 30-28, 31-29, 30-23. 
But the Belles didn't fare as well in their next match against Grinnell College. Once again, the Belles found themselves plagued by slow starts. 
They fell behind in two games by as many as seven points. Grinnell played Saint Mary's close for four games before tak­ing the deciding fifth game and the match by a marathon 28-30, 30-23, 30-27, 31-33, 10-15 score. 
Looking to even their record, the Belles closed out the tourna­ment with a match against Coe College, falling in four games, 33-31, 22-30, 21-30, 20-30 and finishing the tournament with a 1-3 mark. 

Nevertheless, the team's out­look remained positive. 
"Overall, I was very pleased," second-year head coach Julie Schroeder-Biek said. "The play­,/ ( ers back each other up and play together as a team. Defensively, 
., 
balls didn't just hit the floor. 
They hustled very well." 
Schroeder-Biek knows her team needs to focus on eliminat­ing sluggish starts. 
"We need to start out with intensity and not dig holes," she said. 
Team captain Angela Meyer felt that despite the results, the team has the potential for bigger and better things. 
"We have talent and felt we could've taken all the games, but first we need to get to learn how we play together," Meyer said. 
Heading into the tournament, the team wanted to focus on chemistry and effective lineups as well as wins and losses. 
"I tried a lot of different hitting and setting positions and three different offenses," Schroeder­Biek said. "It let me see strengths and weaknesses." 
Off the court, the trip helped established team camaraderie. Schroeder-Biek .hoped traveling would give the team a chance to gel. 
"I like starting off on the road because the team can get to know each other a little better." 
"A lot of the upperclassmen roomed with freshmen which helped us get to know some of the younger girls," Meyer added. 
The weekend proved to be an adjustment for the freshmen on the court as well. 
"Getting used to playing [at the college level] is different," said freshman defensive specialist Michelle Gary. "The scoring is 'rally' instead of 'up-to-15.' It can take a lot out of you." 
Though not all the freshmen saw extensive playing time, they made the most of their opportu­nities. 
"Our freshmen that did play a lot performed very well," Schroeder-Biek said. 
The Belles will use this tourna­ment as a springboard to open their regular season. They begin with their first game tonight at home against Bethel. 
Contact Matt Mooney at mooney.2@nd.edu . 

INTERRACE 
Wednesday, September 5, 2001 Cent-er for Social Concerns 5:30 p.m. 

Join us for a discussion and a free Thai dinner Please Call MSPS 'to R.S.V.P 631-6841 
Irish 
continued from page 20 
two consecutive kills after Idaho got out to a 3-0 lead to spark a comeback. The Irish eventually won 30-22. 
"She played with a lot of confidence," Brown said of Loomis, who totaled 14 kills, eight digs and three blocks in the match. "She had a lot of nice swings. She passed very well in the back row. I think it was really good for her to have that good match under her belt." 
And with the Irish smelling victory at the end of game four, it was none other than Big East preseason Player of the Year Kristy Kreher that came up in the clutch. 
Kreher had a hand in five of Notre Dame's final 10 points, including teaming with Goralski for the block on match point. Kreher fin­ished the match with 12 kills, two aces, 17 digs and two blocks. 
"I think her timing was just a little bit off," Brown said of Kreher. "When her timing was good and she had a good approach and everything she did a great job." 
The Irish swept Southwest Texas in three games on Friday night and also took three of three from Florida Atlantic on Saturday morn­ing to gain their first two wins of the season. 
The weekend's matches 
provided a· tune-up before next weekend's US Bank/Arby's Tournament in Lincoln, Nebraska. The Irish take on UCLA, Pepperdine and defending national champion Nebraska. 
"I think there's still a lot that we need to work on because certainly the teams we're going to play next weekend are going to be bet­ter than the teams we played this week," Brown said. "We weren't getting the ball up to the setter where she still has three options and we're going to have to improve that for sure against the teams next weekend." 
Contact Noah Amstadter at amstadter. l@nd.edu. 

· We're· not like every other high-tech company. We're hiring. 
No one told you the hardest part of being an engineer would be finding your first job. Of course, its still possible to get the high-tech work you want by joining the U.S. Air Force. You can leverage your degree immediately and get hands-on experience with some of the most sophisticated technology on earth. To find out how to get your career off the ground, call 1-800-423-USAF or visit our Web site at airforce.com. 
\.,/
•.:• 

U.S. AIR FORCE 


Monday, September 3, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
ND SOFTBALL 
Gumf replaces
Schmidt transfers to LSU 
FAST provides aid at the football and basketball games, 
the Bookstore Basketball tournament, Bengal Bouts, all 
interhall sports, and most events that come to campus. 
(D 

BEAPARTOFTHEACTION 
For more info try www.nd.edu/~fast If interested, contact abarbour@nd.edu 
FAST is also looking for a webmaster. 
R€00€DV'5 Rl(Co€n featuring
Autumn 
Rn00€5 
LOCAL SOUTH BEND BAND! 

SEPT. 7, 2001 • 7:30 P.M. ,,., MOREAU LITTLE THEATRE 
For ticket information contact the Saint Mary's Box Office at 2 84-46 2 6. 


By PETE FRASSO 
Spons Writer 
While the Irish softball team adjusts to a new coach, it will also have to adjust to losing one of last season's best pitch­ers. . Former freshman Kristin Schmidt will spend her sopho­more season competing for the Louisiana State Tigers after tranferring from Notre Dame, leaving the Irish without an established ace for the upcom­ing season. 
Schmidt led the team in sev­eral key categories. She fin­ished the year with a 27-3 record and a team leading ERA of 0.55. She also had 247 strikeouts and pitched 204 innings, both team highs. 
"[Transferring] just seemed like the right thing to do," Schmidt told the South Bend 
I just felt it was time for me to focus on other things." Miller said she wanted to
join the 

spend more time with her family. including her first grandchild who was born 
three weeks ago. 

"Anybody who's coached knows that at least a part of you always wants to return," 
FIRST AID 
SERVICES 
Miller said. "That doesn't mean it's the right choice." Miller also made it clear she has no plans to return to
TEAM 
coaching. "We have a great coaching
Enjoy saving other students from harm with qualifications in CPR and First Aid. 
staff in place," she said. Replacing Miller is associ­ate head coach Deanna 
Gumpf. who has guided the pitching staff since 1998. "We had talked about 
FAST is looking for a few good volunteers. 
[Miler's retirement] before, I · knew it would be this year or next," Gumf said. "I knew 
No experience is necessary. We will show you what you 
need to know. Find our booth at activities night. 
Tribune. "Ifs close to home." American honors after finish­"She was homesick," said ing the Big East season with­
Miller for Irish 
head coach Deanna Gumpf. out allowing an earned run. "LSU is only three hours from The Irish return only one 
her home i n Houston. 
"LSU is only three hours 
I think 
from her home in
s h e w o u Id Houston. I think she have felt 
would have felt better if
better if 
Notre Dame was closer to 
N o tr e D a m e her home.·· was clos­er to 
Deanna Gumf
home." 
Gumpf Notre Dame head coach added t h a t 
grades were not an issue with California: and Steffany a decision
Schmidt, and neither were any Stenglein of Huntington I was
personality conflicts with the Beach, California. 

going to Gumf
coaching staff. 
have to

"We were actually really make sooner or later,"
close," Gum pf said. Contact Pete Frasso at 
Miller said. "Coaching is my
Schmidt received All-Peter.J.Frasso.l@nd.edu. 
life. Who knows when the right time to leave really is? 
pitcher, junior Jessica Sharron, 
By PETE FRASSO who made seven 
Sports Writer appearances in the 2001 season, 
Liz Miller, Notre Dame'scompiling a 4.42 
head softball coach since
ERA. 
1993, has retired from the
Two upcoming position after nine seasons
freshmen will 
of taking

also be called 
the pro­

upon to fill out 
g r a m

the staff: Carrie 
near the

Wisen, from 
top of the

Sonora High 
national

School in La 
rankings.

H a b r a , 
"It was 

I wanted the job. We have a great program here, but [Athletic Director] Kevin White was looking for the best candidate he could find. He will do what it takes." 
After spending her years working with Miller, Gumf does not expect to make many changes in coaching style. 
"She was my mentor," Gumpf stated. "We will be as aggressive as we can, and work as hard as we can to win." 
Last season, Irish pitchers set a team record with a 
0.89 ERA, with pitchers Jen Sharron and Kristin Schmidt winning Big East Pitcher of the Year and Rookie of the Year respectively. 
"This year we have a strong core of players." Gumpf said. "We have good mental toughness, and our hitters are very solid. Our pitching staff is very young. We will give up runs but we will score some too. I expect our pitchers to get better with every game." 
Gumpf will· look to Jarrah Myers, Jenny Kriech and Kas Hoag as the leaders of the team. with support from a strong junior class. 
Before coming to Notre Dame, Gumpf worked as an asistant coach at Long Beach State for two seasons. She played her college days at Nebraska, graduating in 1992. 
Contact Pete Frasso at Peter.J.Frasso.l@nd.edu. 

. 
\ 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, September 3, 2001 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Irish quell doubts with 5-0 Big East win 


By BRYAN KRONK Sports Writer 

To say there were a lot of 
unanswered questions heading 
into the season for the Notre 
Dame men's soccer team would 
be an understatement. 

But many of those questions 
were answered for the Irish in 
its regular season opener 
Saturday night, with a key 5-0 
victory over Big East rival "Villanova. The Irish defense con­tinued its dominance, holding the Wildcats to a mere three shots on goal for the entire game. The back line of Griffin Howard, Greg Martin, Andreas Forstner and Kevin Richards seemed impenetrable at times. 
"We knew heading into the 
second half that if we kept play­
ing the same way we'd been 
playing for the first 45 minutes, 
the game would eventually turn 
our way, and it did," Irish co­
captain Howard said. 

The first surge of offense came 
for the Irish with just more than 
three minutes left in the first 
half. 

After a Villanova foul, Irish 
freshman Kevin Goldthwaite 
kicked a rolling ground ball that 
found its way through a wall of 
Wildcat defenders and past 
goalie Sean Teesdale, putting the 
Irish ahead 1-0. 

The Irish offense then broke 
the game wide open in the sec­ond half, adding four more goals to seal the game. A lunging header by defender Greg Martin from a Kevin Richards pass · barely crossed the goal line and gave the Irish a 2-0 advantage with just more than 33 minutes 
left in the second half. After a Villanova defender was whistled for taking down Irish midfielder Justin Detter with 22 minutes left, Erich Braun put the penalty shot past Teesdale to give Notre Dame a three-goal lead. 
"The game was close for the most part," Irish coach Bobby Clark said. "But once we got that third goal we knew the thing was over." 
The Irish added two more quick· goals near the end of the contest to provide the final mar­gin. 
Defender Justin Ratcliffe made it 4-0 when he took a pass from Rafael Garcia, broke away from the Villanova defense .and flipped the ball into the far cor­ner of the net with 14 minutes left. 
Two minutes after Villanova pulled Teesdale and put in sub­stitute goalie Pat Walsh, Irish senior midfielder Matt Rosso scored on a breakaway off of a lead pass by Martin for the 5-0 win. The Irish finished with 20 shots on goal for the game. 
"This was a great way to start," Clark said. "It's exciting when the team is making the chances it has. The team played very well." 
But the team is well aware that it will need to step up its play for future Big East competi­tion. 
"It's going to be tough becasue these teams come to play hard," Howard said. "We've got a long season ahead. We can't keep our heads in the clouds." 
Contact Bryan Kronk at Kronk.3@nd.edu. 
N@jffll)] IID&JOOill 1rilCCDii~ SEASONS WANTED INDIVIDUAL GAMES 
Preferred Tickets 
234--5650 


:L
I 
J ., 
I C 

DUFFY MARIE-ARNOULT/The Observer Sophomore midfielder Rllppo Chillemi goes for the ball In Notre Dame's 5-0 victory over Providence. The Irish began their season last Saturday w.ith the conference win. 
Have you thought about 
teaching , Religion and· becoming a Catechist? 
* 
Do you enjoy working with children or adolescents? 

* 
Can you give one-two hours ofyour time each week? 

* 
Do you welcome the challenge to articulate your faith? 

* 
Would you like to be a valuable asset to a local parish? 

* 
Would you like to work towards catechist certification? 


If you can ansvver YES to any or all of these questions, come find out more about being a Religion Teacher in a local parish. 
Important Information Meeting: Wednesday, September 5, 5:00-6:00 p.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
For more info, call John or Sylvia Dillon at 631-7163 
-

Monday, September 3, 2001 
The Observer . TODAY page 19 
RYAN

FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY 
BEMUSED AND BEFUDDLED 
CUNNINGHAM 
• 

DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 



"God bless you." 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD 
HOROSCOPE 

ACROSS 31 Schedule 54 Charlemagne's 1 Small hindrance, 32 Judge domain 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22):
as in plans 57 Electron's place 
33 Teachers' org. 

TIDS DAY: Emma Samms, Jason You will be pressed for time if 
6 Actor Guinness 58 labor 
Priestley, Daniel Stem, Richard you have made too many prom­
34 Certain 

Sanders, Ben Gazzara, Lou ises to too many people. Family
1 O Small-circulation 59 Hammerin' Hank 
retrievers, for 

Piniella members will be disappointed if
publication for short 60 Townshend of 
Happy Birthday: This is a you take them for granted when
fans 
the Who 
35 Khaki-like color 
great year to move into fast for­they most need help. 000
14 Fighting 
61 Loch ward and gather up all the loose LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22):
37 Taverns

15 Much of Eur. is 62 Some dental ends left dangling. Position your• Your ability to see both sides of in it 38 From Z records self well to reap the rewards that an issue will help keep things you've been striving for. Living harmonious in group encounters.
39 Explorer16 Geraint's love 

in the past isn't an Of!tion. It's Changes and busy activities at
Hemandode

17 "Swan Lake" DOWN time to show everyone how with home will cause. fatigue. Be sure piece 1 Walking stick it you really are. Your numbers: to get some rest. 0000 40 Paris 17, 22, 26, 29, 35, 37 SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):
20 Road curve 2 Blvds. and rds. 
newspaper, with ARIES (March 21-April 19): You may have a greater concern 21 Actress Dawber "Le" 3 "_a Teen-age Travel will be tiring but lucrative. for older family members. Try and others Werewolr Don't sign contracts until you to help straighten out their per­
41 Window covers 

have gone over them thoroughly. sonal papers. You will have a
22 Watergate 4 Blueprint
45 1994 Jodie The odds of getting what you tendency to over-react to person·
scandal figure 5 Ask for a hand?
Foster title tole want are better if you deal direct­al situations. 000
Chuck 
6 Ox or fox ly with the boss. 000 SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 12-Dec.
46 God

23 Davenport TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 21): You may make a :mistake at
7 Side muscles, 
47 Maniacal Arguments will prevail. Your work unless you get all the facts
24 First 007 flick for short 
lover may disappoint you in such before making a decision. The 
25 Brunch dish 50 Coffee, slangily 8 Hippocrates' H 
a way that estrangement will fol­best results will come from busi· with spinach 51 Old Ford 9 Tangible low. Be cautious in making per• ness travel. Don't get involved in sonal decisions about legal or other people's problems. 00
10 Wild-eyed one 
contractual matters. Tune is on CAPRICORN (Dec. ?2-Jan. ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 Hostels yourside.00000 19): Sudden changes in partner­~-~~ 12 One-named GEMINI (May 21-June 20): ships will come as a surprise. It's 
Puzzle by Elhan Cooper

singer/model Business partnerships can be likely that things are going on filmed by Andy 28 of itself prosperous. Alterations to your behind your back. Quiet action is
44 Score before 15 52 "Troilus and 
Warhol living quarters will bring greater the best revenge. 00
29 They're hardly 47 Fellow Cressida" 
comfort. Make special plans for AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
13 Apple of hip setting
48 Learning by you and your lover. 000 Interact with those in high posi•
"':"'1'-=+,,,...,,,...,~~ temptation site 
30 Facility flashcards, e.g. CANCER Qune ll•July 22): tions and present your ideas.
53 Trophy rooms
'":"1"':"'1'~= 18 riot You can make career gains by Take the imtitative to get ahead.
31 Serb or Croat 49 Otten
(comedy review) employing your talents on those Don't hesitate to take a stance on
55 A Stooge
19 "Death be not 35 Essentially 50 Shakes up innovative ideas. Become in­your future. 0000 amount (to) 51 Italian money volved in projects that will give PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20):
proud" writer 56 Average
36 Bibliography you freedom and lead to friend­Tension at home should be 
-.rt-"!""'t-....+,,,...,=-t 23 Certain NCO's 
shi .000 expected if you haven't been
abbr . 

..,,,...,,,.+~~ 24 Big bore Answers to any three clues in this puzzle tEo (July 23-Aug. 22): Spend spending enough time with you.r
37 007 

some time pampering yourself. It mate. Overtime and extra activi­
....+!:"'t-!:~ 25 Gladden are available by touch-tone phone: 
39 Direct may be costly and your partner ties have upset your partner
.,.,...~~ 26 Cameroon 1-900-420-5656 (95e per minute) . 
may not approve, but your state more than you realized. 00
40 Disney studio 

neighbor Annual subscriptions are available for the of mind will improve. 000 -:+~~~~~...+or~ 27 Hunter in the 42 Pepsin, e.g. best of Sunday crosswords from the last SO night sky 43 False fire? years: 1·888-7-ACAOSS. Birthday Baby: You are hard-working, trustworthy and quick to take advantage of any opportunity. You know what you want and will be persistent until you are successful. (Need advice? Oieck out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
C 2001 Univenal Press Syndicate
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year D Enclosed is $50 for one semester Name --------------------------­
Address-------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 

Campus Sports OTHE Campus Sports
BSERVER 
. Men's Soccer, p. 18 
. Baseball, p. 15 
. 
SMC Volleyball, p. 17 . Golf, p. 15 

. 
ND Softball, p. 16 



Monday, September 3, 2001 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish unlock a 'key' victory 
. Irish end weekend 2-0 at Key Bank Classic 
By JOE LICANDRO Sports Writer 
Sometimes a substitution can be the key to victory. 
With the score deadlocked between Notre Dame and University of Hartford at 0-0 and time ticking away in the second half, Notre Dame women's soccer coach Randy Waldrum inserted senior for­ward Kelly Tulisiak into the lineup hoping to provide an offensive spark. For the second straight game, Tulisiak did not disappoint her coach, providing instant offense in Notre Dame's 2-0 victory Sunday. 
Tulisiak's blistering rebound off a deflected shot from fell ow forward Amy Warner broke the deadlock and proved to be the difference in the Irish win in the final round of the Key Bank Classic. With two minutes left in the game, Amy Warner added a goal of her own to put the finishing touches on the Irish victory. 
While some players have trouble entering the game off the bench, Tulisiak has flour­ished in this role so far this season, finishing the Key Bank Classic with both an assist and a goal. 
"I don't mind coming off the bench," said Tulisiak. "It's good to come in and try to give the team a lift. I'm very comfort­able with my role on this team." 
After Friday night's season­opening win against eighth ranked Penn State, the No. 4 Irish were hoping to maintain their intensity against Hartford, but the first half proved to be a struggle. 
A majority of the action took place in the midfield with both teams failing to gain possession of the ball. While Notre Dame's defense prevented Hartford from creating any scoring chances, Notre Dame's offense was unable to mount any strong offensive attacks of its own. 
Notre Dame's only serious threat came when forward Amanda Guertin's shot off of a header from midfielder Kim Carpenter was denied by a div­ing save from Hartford goalie Anne Nilssen. 
"I was disappointed in our play in the first half," Waldrum said. "We weren't as mentally focused as we needed to be. In the second half, we came out more organized offensively. It was good to see Kelly Tulisiak get a goal. She brings a lot of energy on to the field. Kelly his-
see SOCCER/page 12 


TIM KACMAA/The Observer Freshman midfielder Randi Scheller looks to intercept a pass during a Notre Dame victory against the University of Hartford Sunday. The Irish finished the weekend 2-0. 
ND VOLLEYBALL FOOTBALL 
Shamrock invite brings title Scrimmages 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Sports Editor 
With a group of loud sup­porters sporting orange shirts in the stands, the Irish women's volleyball team stepped it up to take the title. 
Notre Dame defeated Idaho 3-1 (30-28, 28-30, 30-22, 30­
25} Saturday night for its third match win in two days, ending this weekend's Shamrock Invitational in the Joyce Center as the only undefeated team. And while the atten­dance clearly totaled less than 500 fans, a boisterous contin­gent of 25 to 30 young men provided the home court advantage. 
"I have to give a lot of credit to Knott Hall," said Irish coach Debbie Brown. "Last year they came a couple of times and were great too. I know there were other students out there but I know they were there because they come in their orange shirts." 
Perhaps most inspired were middle blockers Kim Fletcher and Malinda Goralski. Fletcher was named the tour­nament's Most Valuable Player after posting a double­double of 14 kills and 10 digs against the Vandals of Idaho. In three weekend matches, the sophomore totaled 35 kills. Goralski tied a career high with 11 blocks. 
"It's very exciting," Fletcher said of the award. "As a mid­dle hitter, it's a testament to the whole team." 
The see-saw match against Idaho saw multiple heroes step up for the Irish. 
With the Irish up only 29-28 in the first game, Goralski ­who rotated in with the game tied 24-24 -slammed down a Kristen Kinder set to hand the Irish the first hard-fought game. 
In game two, Idaho jumped out to a 16-10 score. The Irish closed the gap to 24-22, but couldn't sustain a rally, falling 
30-28.  
"They  played  us  really  
tough,"  Brown said  of the  
Vandals  after  the  match.  

"Definitely they played the best match of the weekend. They were really fired up to play us and I think they did a great job." 
In game three, freshman Emily Loomis responded with two consecutive kills after 
see IRISH/page 16 
. 
SMC Volleyball, Tonight, 7 p.m. 

. 
ND Women's Soccer vs. Indiana, Friday, 7 p.m.


SPORTS 
. ND Volleyball vs. Michigan, Sep. 12, 7 p.m.
I 
AT AGLANCE . ND Men's Soccer vs. Rhode Island, Sep. 14, 7 p.m.
i 
prepare Irish 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Associate Sports Editor 
They haven't even started the game yet, and the Irish are already behind. 
No. 4 Nebraska, Notre Dame's first opponent, has already played a pair of games and has what Irish coaches are craving: game experience. Playing against TCU and Troy State, Nebraska had the opportunity to polish rough spots on the team with actual games, a luxury Notre Dame doesn't have. 
But that doesn't mean the Irish aren't trying. Last week in a pair of scrimmages designed to simulate game conditions, the coaching staff did everything possible to cre­ate an actual game. 
"Our football team knew that it was something we had to do," said Bob Davie, Notre Dame's head football coach. "It was the first time I've scrimmaged this close to the first game, but we just had to do it." 
In the scrimmages, the Irish took two very different approaches. In the first scrim­mage on Aug. 26, the Irish coaching staff pitted the start-
see FOOTBALL/page 14 
OBSERVER 
online classifieds 
http://www.nd.edu/ ~observer 







