
In tribute 
Strangely disappointing 
Monday
Members of the Notre Dame community 
Although "Jekyll and Hyde" hasfascinating 
participate in a run/walk in memory ofNotre 
visual effects, overall it suffered from a lack of 
Dame students who had leukemia. 
direction and didn't live up to expectations 
APRIL 23, 
News . page 3 
Scene . page 12-.13 
2001 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 126 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

Murphy leaves Notre Dame to chase NBA dream 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Senior Staff Writer 
Junior AH-American Troy Murphy is making his dream of playing in the NBA a reality. 
Murphy, a 6-foot-11 power for­ward, announced Friday that he would forgo his senior season at Notre Dame in order to enter the NBA Draft. 
"I've had a great time here at Notre Dame," Murphy said, "And I am going to chase a dream that I've had for my entire life, and I'm going to put myself in the NBA Draft." 
Murphy's dream of playing in the NBA began innocently, a third­grade kid shooting baskets on a miniature hoop in his basement. But unlike most kids, Murphy's pro dream didn't die. Instead, it flour­ished as he put Notre Dame basket­ball back in the top 25 and became a first-team All-American. 
Murphy considered entering the Draft after his sophomore season, but chose to stay at Notre Dame. At the time, he thought it wou(d be an easy decision to jump to the NBA after one more year of college. When it came to decision time, however, Murphy wasn't so sure what to do. 
"\Vhen it came down to me to make the decision," Murphy said. "it was tough for me to make the decision because of the relationship that I have with Coach [Mike] Brey. ... It was a hard decision. but a decision that I'm happy with." 
He tentatively put his name in the draft April 10, but didn't hire an agent, leaving open the option of staying at Notre Dame. 
"I came extremely close to stay• ing," Murphy said. 
Ten days later. Murphy knew it 
see MURPHY/page 4 


. Students express mixed feelings about star's choice 
By ALLY JAY 
News Wricer 
Troy Murphy's fellow students had mixed reaction this weekend to the news that the All-American forward would leave behind the blue and gold of Notre Dame for his dream of the NBA. 
Some feel he is making a foolish career decision. 
"Do you know who Adam Keefe is? Exactly. That's what's people are going to be saying about Troy in five years," said freshman Amad Judeh, referring to the former All­American forward at Stanford who is now a reserve with the Golden State v\1arriors. 
Others, including Notre Dame Porn Squad member Kristen O'Connor, were disappoint­ed, especially given Murphy's instrumental role in reviving the men's basketball progam during the past three years. 
"We were really looking forward to cheer­ing him on next year and watching him lead us to an excellent run in the playoffs," she said. 'Tm disappointed; he could have stayed a year for us." 
But many students supported Murphy's decision. Junior Jim Webb pointed to the revolving door in the head coach's otTice. 
"I would leave, too," he said. "Three coach­es in three years. I don't think it was a tough decision." 
Brian Snyder, also ajunior, agreed. 
"I really can't blame him," he said. "By staying for another year, he would risk losing a potentially spectacular professional career." 
Some, like junior William Croker, said it was important to remain positive about Murphy's decision, even though students may feel betrayed by it. 
"I know how it feels for everyone to talk bad about you. So I think that everyone should look at thP positives," Croker said. "He will be a significant contributor in his rookie season much like Tim Duncan or Karl Malone." 

University buys Logan Center property for $2.6 million 
ByJASON McFARLEY News Editor  services and vision in a new direction," Logan CEO Dan Harshman said.  the University is planning to use the facility or of what kind of timeframe we're looking at,"  what their next move would be." Moore pointed out that on a regular basis individuals and  close to the campus should Logan opt to take that direction. "This [agreementJ was an  
Funds from the agreement will  said Dennis Moore, Notre Dame  organizations approach and  important move for the relation•  
In a move that officials from Notre Dame and Logan Community Resources, Inc., say will strengthen the organiza­tions' partnership, the University has agreed to the $2.6-million purchase of the Logan Center property. Logan, a company with a SO­year history in Michiana. is best known for the services it pro­vides for mentally and physically challenged children and adults. The center has been housed in its current site at 1235 N. Eddy St., just south of campus, since 1968. "This is part of a major transi­tion for Logan as we move our  be used to strengthen the com­pany financially and support future resources and opportuni­ties for the disabled, according to Harshman. As part of the arrangement, Notre Dame will buy the 52,000­square-foot facility and lease it back to Logan for $1 annually for three years. University officials are unsure how the property will be used after that period. Plans for a new hotel and a larger law school on campus are in the works, but otTicials say it's too early to link the building initia­tives with the Logan purchase. "There's no word yet on how  director of public relations and strike deals with the University information. for the pur­That's due chase of prop­"This is part ofa majorin part to the erties near fact that the the campus. transition for Logan as deal was initi­Both thewe move our services andated by Universityvision in a newLogan, and Logan according to direction. ,, praise their Moore. recent deal as "This is not the continua­Dan Harshmanan initiative of tion of a long­ours," Moore Logan CEO stap.ding part­said. "They nership. [Logan offi-Harshman cials] came to us and asked if and Moore said that in addition we'd be willing to buy the prop­to the generous $1-per-year erty and lease it to them for lease. Notre Dame has offered to three years, while they decided help identify and secure land  ship between Logan and Notre Dame," Harshman said. "We certainly look forward to further developing that relationship in the future." "And certainly at the heart of our partnership are the efforts of major groups of students through tpe years," Harshman added, noting Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students have com­pleted volunteer work at the center for the past 25 years. Because the agreement allows Logan to remain in its present facility, the center will experi­ence no immediate changes to current personnel or services, Harshman said.  

Monday, April 23, 2001 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
"It's ... the lake ef£ect'' 
As a newcomer to this part of the country, I can't help but notice Midwesterners' tendency to explain away any change of weather with two words. In Florida, we like to use some variety in disguising our complete ignorance as to the cause of the .weather, though A d we have pretty much beaten n rew that el ninc:v' la nina thing to Thagard death. I have to admire Midwesterners for their con­
wire editor 

sistency. South·Benders in particular have an uncanny knack for blaming their 1O-month slew of bad weather on these two words. 
Remember the blizzard that hit before Christmas break forcing the University to reschedule some final exams? The lake effect. 
The snow we had last week IN MID-APRIL? Lake effect. 
Those strong, icy winds that seem to go against you no matter what direction you turn? You guessed it. 
South Benders don't stop with winter though. 
You know those painfully hot summers? The lake effect again. 
Late flights? Lake effect. 
Cancelled flights? Uh-oh the lake effect strikes again. Too much rain? Lake effect. Too little rain? Blame it on the lake effect. What don't these guys blame on the lake 
effect? 
Now don't get me wrong. I really am happy to have a scapegoat for all bad weather phenomena and people have such faith that they're right. I mean. meteorologists even use it. The phrase has a sense of sophistication to it; it sounds so scien­tific. Why mess with a good thing then? , 
My problem with the lake effect is that it just works too well. I don't feel that we're maximiz­ing our use of this phrase. As students we need to be taking full advantage ofthis excuse. The lake effect has so much potential outside of weather. 
Just think of its academic implications (Besides, OIT has been on pretty good behavior lately): 
Can't get that 10-pager in on time? It's the lake effect's fault. Forgot about that quiz, test, or exam? The lake effect made me stay out all night. 
Didn't make class? It's that lake effect again! 
And what about its ability to explain away social mishaps? 
Forgot about that special someone's birthday? Humidity brought on by the lake effect has been known to cause temporary memory lapses. 
Can't get a date to the SYR despite those good looks and great personality? It's not your fault; the lake effect probably has something to do with it. 
Lawyers have beaten that insanity plea to death, why not expand the options? Use the lake effect hypothesis to explain away those unwant• ed crimes. Besides, it's cheaper for your legal team to hire meteorologists than medical doc­tors. 
If you're not from the Midwest, your days to use this scapegoat are numbered so start taking full advantage now. That reminds me. Editors, my next story won't be coming in on time, it's ... the lake effect. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Erin Piroutek 0. Spencer Beggs Tim Logan 
Graphics Geoff Brodie 
Jose Cuellar Sports 
Lab Tech Brian Kessler 
Amanda Greco Viewpoint 
Lori Lewalski 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during cum and \'acation periods. The Observer is a member ofthe Associated Press. All reproduction rights a.re reserved. 
Monday  Tuesday  Wednesday  Thursday  
. Lecture: "The Business  . Mini-medical school:  . Theater: "Oedipus  . Symposium: Immigration  
Case for the Living Wage,"  "Militant Microbes ­ Rex," by Sophocles,  Law, Law School  
Hesburgh Center Auditorium,  Antibiotic Resistant  Washington Hall,  Courtroom, 3 p.m.  
7p.m.  Bacteria," 102 DeBartolo,  7:30 p.m.  . Musical: "Gypsy,"  
. Theater: Shakespeare's  7 p.m.  . Concert: ND Chorale  O'Laughlin Auditorium,  
"The Lunatic, the Lover and  . Film: "The  and Chamber Orchestra,  Sp.m.  
the Poet," by Brian Bedford,  Grandfather," Montgomery  Basilica, 8 p.m.  . Movie: Billy Elliot, 155  
Jordan Auditorium, 7 :30 p.m.  Theatre, 7 and 9 p.m.  DeBartolo, 10:30 p.m.  

Compiled from U-Wire reports 

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Reparations ad sparks protests at UConn 
STORRS, Conn. 
advertisement, which was printed 
A group of approximately 60 peo­two days later. ple went to The Daily Campus One woman in the crowd disagreed Thursday night to tell them that they that the incidents were unrelated, no longer want their student fees to stating, "I found out on Tuesday that go to the paper because of its deci­this ad would probably be printed on sion to print David Horowitz's contro­Thursday." versial advertisement about slave Her comment was met by yells of reparations. shock from the protestors. 
Tensions surrounding the adver­Daily Herald in response to its deci­The UConn police said that the graf­tisement, entitled "Ten Reasons Why sion to publish the advertisement. fiti was found in a men's bathroom of Slave Reparations for Slavery is a Other papers, such as The Duke the Gant building on Tuesday. Bad Idea -and Racist Too," height­Chronicle and the University of "The threatening graffiti was racist ened Thursday morning after news Wisconsin Badger Herald, were also and anti-Semitic in nature," a crime spread that racially offensive graffiti protested after they printed the alert produced by the police depart­had appeared on campus. advertisement. ment said. "Specifically. there was a 
The advertisement has spurred Vicki Triponey. vice chancellor of threat of violence to be carried out on 
controversies at other college student student affairs, served as a mediator April 20." newspapers that chose to publish it. for the protest and told students that The number of police patrols on At Brown University, a student coali­because the graffiti appeared on campus has been increased in tion stole almost 4,000 copies of The Tuesday it was not prompted by the response to the threat. 

PENN STATE UNIVERSITY 
Police charge 15 more in riots 
UNIVERSITY PARK, Pa. 
The State College Police Department charged an additional 15 men Wednesday in connection with the March 24 riot in "Beaver Canyon." Out of the 15 peo­ple arrested, 13 of them are Pennsylvania State University students. Most of the men arrested are charged with failure to disperse or disorderly conduct, which contrasts the first 20 arrests made by police. Those charges ranged from aggravated assault to harassment. Many of those charged were identified through the still shots posted on the borough Web site (www.gov.state-college.pa.us) and through video footage taken by the public and police during the dis­turbance. Sgt. Dana Leonard said the police made the additional arrests because the public has been submit­ting more footage of higher quality than they had after the previous two riots. Leonard also said the State College Police Department and Crimestoppers have been receiving phone calls from people who have iden­tified men and women on the Web site. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 

COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY 
Negotiations begin on TA unions 
NEW YORK 

Hearings began Thursday between Columbia University and United Auto Workers (UAW) Local 2110, which is affiliated with Graduate Student Employees United {GSEU) at Columbia. The hearings will ultimately determine if there will be a union election at Columbia, a vote that could certify a union of teaching and research assistants. Columbia is represented by lawyers from Proskauer Rose LLP, which has an anti-union reputation and represented New York University (NYU) throughout its 43 days of hearings. The UAW is represented by the lawyers from Levy, Ratner and Behroozi, P.C., which rep­resented UAW in the NYU case as well. The UAW is plan­ning to argue that undergraduate teaching and research assistants should be included in the union at Columbia. Yesterday's proceedings demonstrated that the prece­dent set by the case at NYU. which recently became the first private university to recognize graduate student unions, will heavily influence both counsels' legal argu­ments. 
Vie "'-t9d Pross  
Atlanta  82  60  Las Vegas  63  32  Por1land  59  45  
Baltimore  84  62  Memphis  76  49  Sacramenlo  75  52  
Boston  62  54  Milwaukee  76  39  St. Louis  76  40  
Chicago  73  44  New York  74  58  Tampa  85  66  
Houston  80  56  Philadelphia  82  60  Wastiington DC 84  62  

Monday, April 23, 200 I 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
FOR BRIONNE, CONOR AND MIRANDA 
Student to raise funds 
by biking across nation 

By JASON McFARLEY 
News Editor 
Numbers are usually no sweat for math major Theresa Ferry. 
But factor into the equation a charity bike ride and some fig­ures daunting enough to make even her Notre Dame profes­sors cringe, and it is the biggest challenge Ferry, a junior, has yet to face. 
Consider: The 21-year old Ferry will bike 3,600 miles from San Francisco to Washington, D.C, this summer. 
She.'ll ride 70 miles per day. six days each week for nine weeks. 
She hopes to collect $3,600, a dollar for each mile she bikes. 
Ferry's cross-country trek is part of Bike-Aid, a social edu­cation program sponsored by JustAct: Youth Action for Global Justice. Ferry, a McGlinn Hall resident, will bike from June 16 to Aug. 19 in a 
THE 

RECOMMENDS 
Upon graduating from college, a booksmart and naive Sapolsky leaves the con1forts of the Northeastern United States for the very first time, to join a baboon troop in Kenya as a "young transfer male." 

For 15 years, Quammen delighted Outside magazine readers with his fascinating ruminations on the world around us. This book brings together 26 of his best essays now available in an affordable paperback edition. Full of intellectual surprises and told with authority and hun1or, Euclid's Window reveals that simple questions of geometry have led to the great revolutions in the history 


,11•
of science. 

·ElJC l.All)'S WIi~i15()\\,l 
HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME BOOKS'IORE 
ride that combines global edu­cation, community living, ser­vice learning and physical chal­lenge. 
"I've always wanted to see the whole country," said Ferry, a native of Tamaqua, Pa. "I thought that going on a bike would be the coolest way of doing it." 
Ferry will participate with 25 other U.S. riders and two international riders. 
The bike tour goes through about a dozen states and includes routes through Salt Lake City. Boulder, Colo .. Kansas City, Mo.. St. Louis and trfe Blue Ridge Mountains. Stops in Indiana are planned in Bloomington and Terre Haute. 
Ferry said she learned about Bike-Aid through an Observer story about Benoit Cotnoir. a former Notre Dame student and hockey player who partic­ipated in the program last sum­mer. 
"I thought about what I want~ ed to do this summer, so I got 
in touch with him [Cotnoir]. He 
told me that it had been a won­
derful experience, and I knew I 
wanted to be a part of it, too," 
she said. 
Ferry, a self-described "fit­
ness freak" said the program 
was a natural fit with her exer­
cise routine and ideas about 
social justice . 
She grew up mountain biking 
in Pennsylvania's Appalachian 
Mountains. Last spring she 
competed in her first 
marathon. 
She currently runs five or six 
days a week, and this week 
she'll run in the Nashville 
Marathon. 
Ferry began training for the 
Bike-Aid trip in early-February, 
riding 20 miles on a stationary 
bicycle twice a week. She'II 
soon begin biking outdoors for 
two ·hours once a week in 
preparation for the ride. · 
Of course, Ferry anticipates 
that the program will call not 
just on her physical capabili­
ties. 
"Community service and 
learning about how to make 
communities stronger is a big 
part of the experience," Ferry 
said, noting that bikers will ride 
six days per week and meet 
with community leaders and 
grassroots organizations on the 
seventh day . 
When the trip wraps up in 
Washington in August, riders 
will meet with government offi­
cials to talk about what they've 
learned through the program. 
In the meantime, Ferry is 
busy raising support -and 
funds -for the cause. 
She has already collected about $2,000 through letters to family and friends as well as promoting the program on campus. She said businesses such as a local Papa John's franchise have also donated. 
By May 1, Ferry must raise a total of $2,400. By May 31, she must have raised the full $3,600. 
"I've been really surprised how supportive everyone has been," Ferry said. "I've met so many people by doing this, and they're all excited to be helping me." 
Ferry said anyone interested in making contributions to her can mail donations or e-mail pledges to her. Sponsors may also donate in Ferry's name at the Bike-Aid \Veb site, www.bikeaid.org. 

IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: 631-6316 • www.ndbookstore.com 
page4 Monday, April 23, 2001 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Murphy 
continued from page I 
was time to go. 
"It's a feeling I have, kind of like the feeling when I came here," Murphy said...It's some­thing that I am ready to do." 
The time had come for Murphy to take on a new challenge. He'd already met virtually every chal­lenge put to him in his three years with the Irish. 
For three seasons. Murphy dominated the Big East. lie won rookie of the year honors as a freshman and became one of just four players to repeat as player of the year by capturing that award in both his sopho­more and junior years. 
By his sophomore season, Murphy also controlled the rest of the nation. He averaged 22. 7 points and 10.3 rebounds as a sophomore, followed up by 21.8 points and 9.2 boards per game his junior year. Both years, he was named a first-team All­American by the Associated Press. 
Murphy. who leaves Notre Dame as the fifth all-time lead­ing scorer in school history, also led the Irish from a 14-16 year when he was a freshman to a 22-15 season and NIT runner-up bid in 1999-2000. This year, he drove the Irish all the way to a 20-10 season, a Big East West Division championship. their first NCAA Tournament bid in 11 years and their first NCAA Tournament victory since 1989. 
"This is a guy who played three years of college basketball and dominated in a major con­ference," Brey said. "He is very ready for this challenge." 
In the weeks leading up to the June 27 NBA Draft, Murphy will work out individually for several NBA teams. He is in the process of selecting an agent, someone who will help him sift through the list of teams he should play for. 
"I really believe his stock will go through the roof on the work­out," Brey said. "You bring him in for a workout, and in the workouts, they put him through a lot of skill stuff. First of all, shooting the basketball. Well, I mean, he is going to light up any kind of shooting drill. ... He is the kind of guy that is going to be extremely impressive in the workouts." 

career. He'll be able to focus on just playing basketball, without the added demand of taking a full class schedule. 
Despite the demands, Murphy enjoyed Notre Dame, which made it hard to leave the school and his teammates behind. 
"College, it's a great place," Murphy said. "You know, it's a country club, it really is." 
While he may have been unsure what he would do, his teammates expected Murphy's decision to lead him to the pros. 
"I would have been more sur­prised if he would have come back," said Carroll. 
Junior power forward Ryan Humphrey added, "You kind of knew because it was just hard on him throughout the season, the things he went through, the ups and downs. He'd score 18 points and have 10 rebounds, and people would say he had a bad game." 
Without Murphy, Brey's job 
will be a little tougher next sea­son. But the Irish expect their core of Humphrey, Carroll, David Graves and Harold Swanagan, coupled with the addition of high school All-American point guard Chris Thomas, to be up to the challenge. 
"We're going to win a lot of games next year. and we're going to be chasing that back-to­back Big East Championship." 
While Murphy will no longer be in South Bend. he'll be close to the program. Brey plans to point to him as the recruiting poster boy. 
Murphy plans to stay in close touch with his friends on the team. And they'll be watching him. 
.. Anytime he's around, Chicago, Indianapolis, I'll go down and see him," Graves said. "Troy's a great guy. No matter if he has a couple more million dollars in his pocket, he's not going to change very much." 
ND explores Latin American democracy 
Special to The Observer 

Scholars, journalists and policymakers will convene today and Tuesday for a conference studying democrati­zation in Latin America. 
The conference will examine and explain unanticipated developments Conference in democracy in Latin American Schedule 
countries, particularly in Colombia, Peru and Venezuela, where democ­ratization has experienced setbacks, . Unexpected and in Argentina, Brazil, Mexico, El 
Democracies in

Salvador, Guatemala and Bolivia, where there have been some sur-Unlikely Countries: prising cases of democratic Bolivia, El Salvador 
advances. 

Presentations will include a discus-and Guatemala," sion titled "Leading Democratic 1:30 p.m. MondayActors Assess Democracy," at 1:30 p.m., Tuesday, featuring Chilean . "Democratic 
Minister of Education, Mariana Erosions in the Third Aylwin; Brazilian Minister of Wave: Colombia,
Culture, Francisco Weffort; Argentine presidential advisor and Peru and Venzuela," Ministry of Finance official, Luis ga.m. Tuesday 
Tonelli; Paraguayan ambassador to 
. "Leading

the Organization of American States, Diego Abente Brun; and El Democratic Actors Salvadoran political leader and ana­
Assess Democracy,"

lyst, Ruben Zamora. In conjunction with the confer­. All events in 
ence, former Chilean President Mckenna Hall Patricio Aylwin Az6car will receive the second annual Notre Dame Prize for Distinguished Public Service ·in Latin America at a cer­emony today on campus. 
It is sponsored by the Kellogg Institute for International Studies and will be held in McKenna Hall. 

In the remaining weeks of the semester, Murphy will finish his courses through correspon­dence. He has worked with aca­demic adviser Pat Holmes to devise a plan through which he will graduate with the Class of 2003. 
Now that Murphy's made the decision on his future, he can relax, knowing he will no longer have to answer questions about his future every day. In the NBA, he will no longer be the subject of double-teams on defense, as he was every game of his college 
,-----------, 
,49¢co1or , 
: Copies:
I single-sided on 8.5' x 11 • 28 lb. paper. I 
I You'll be amazed by the quality. I 
:(C)py SHOP: 
1 
1
LaFortune Student Center 

I On the Campus of the University of Notre Dame I 
: Call 631·COPY : I FREE Pick-Up & Delivery I 
I See store for details. I 
I Coupon required. Hurry -expires 5/4/01. I 
\.Not valid with any other offer or discount. I 
-----------. 

TEACHING AND RESEARCH ABROAD!!! 
Announcing The Fulbright Competition for 2002-2003. 
All first year students, sophomores and especially juniors interested in Graduate Study Abroad, don't miss the informational meeting with Professor Andrew Gould 
Wednesday evening, April 25, 2001 at 6:00 pm in room 136 DeBartolo 

ATION 
Monday, April 23, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Suicide bomber strikes in Israel: A 
Palestinian suicide bomber blew himself up at a crowded suburban bus stop Sunday, killing an Israeli doctor and wounding 50 people a day after Israelis and Palestinians met in a bid to prevent such acts of violence. 
Anti-Israeli groups meet in Iran: 
Angered by what they call aggression against Palestinians, some of Israel's most radical foes began gathering in Tehran on Sunday for a conference of resistance groups organized by Iran. Iranian state-run television and radio heralded the Tuesday­Wednesday meeting by broadcasting patri­otic Palestinian songs and footage of clashes between Palestinians and Israeli troops. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Delta strike ends: Delta Air Lines and its pilots union reached a tentative agreement on a new contract Sunday, ending fears the nation's third-largest airline would be crip­pled by a strike within 10 days. The agree­ment came during a weekend of talks with the National Mediation Board in \Vashington. No details of the agreement were immediately available. 
Midwest flooding continues: More rain fell along the swollen Mississippi River on Sunday as residents piled their sandbags higher against advancing water. Even more rain was expected overnight into Monday, but it was not expected to fall heavily across a wide area and some rain already was fac­tored into flood crest predictions, said Rick Kinney, a National Weather Service meteorol­ogist based in the Quad Cities of Iowa and Illinois. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Heavy winds affect 51st Little 500: The main adversary for the teams in this year's Little 500 wasn't the rider on the bicy­cle shadowing their rear tire; it was the wind. "You're going to see a lot of crashes out there today," coach Tim McNe.lis of Indianapolis said as he watched of his Chi Phi fraternity team riders run practice laps. "The winner will be the survivor." The survivor turned out to be team Phi Delta Theta, which hung on to win the 51st running of the 50-mile race. It was the fraternity's third win. The team from the Teter dorm finished second. 
Market Watch April 20 

Dow 
10693.71 +77.88 

Jones 

Composite Same: 
Volume: 209 NIA 
AMEX: 898.02 -2.5f> 
NASDAQ: 2182.14 +102.70 NYSE: 628.83 +2.81 S&P 500: 1253.70 +1554 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) +1.41 +0.96 69.00 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +1.27 +0.24 19.15 NASDAQ 100 INDX (QQQ) +B. 21 +0.10 48.40 JDS UNIPHASE (JDSU) +10.15 +2.63 28.53 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) -4.83 -1.00 19. 71 
QUEBEC CITY 

Associated Press 
QUEBEC 

Western Hemisphere leaders on Sunday signed an agreement to open their markets by December 2005, and said only countries with demo­cratic governments can be a part of the world's most ambitious free-trade zone. 
In their final statement after a three-day summit, President Bush and 33 other leaders from North and South America and the Caribbean pledged to finish negotiations on the free-trade zone by January 2005, with the pact to take effect by the end of that year. 
They insisted that demo­cracy was "fundamental to the advancement of all our objectiv£::s," adding that any "unconstitutional alteration or interruption of the democratic order ... constitutes an insur­mountable obstacle" to participation in further hemispheric trade talks. 
The leaders signed the document in pairs, sitting down at a table two at a time to scrawl their names as Canadian Prime Min-ister Jean Chretien, the summit host, watched over their shoulders like a proud parent. 
The leaders said they 
would "conduct consulta­tions" if any member state had a disruption of its democratic system, but the wording stopped short of establishing specific penalties or automatic expulsion from the talks on the Free Trade Area of the Americas. 
The treaty would create a barrier-free trade zone from the Arctic to Argen­tina, linking markets of 800 million people and economies ranging from the world's largest -the United States -to some of its tiniest. 
Mindful of the inequali­ties of the region, the leaders committed them­
selves to halving the num­ber of people living in extreme poverty by the year 2015. They didn't say how they would achieve that. 
"We will spare no effort to free our fell ow citizens from the dehumanizing conditions of extreme poverty," they said in their declaration. 
That responded to some of the demands of tens of thousands of protesters who came to Quebec City and marched peacefully or battled with riot police along the 2.3-mile con­crete-and-wire security wall erected around the summit venue. 

Evidence builds against Real IRA 
When it comes to the breakaway domestic intelligence service MIS
Associated Press 
group known as the Real IRA, succeeded in infiltrating the Real 
DUNDALK, Ireland authorities in Britain and Ireland IRA and is expected to provide 
In a pub considered the unofficial are trying hard to do just that. detailed testimony against its ring­headquarters of an outlawed group More than 20 suspected members leaders later this year. responsible for the deadliest bomb have been jaileC:, including Michael But the nagging question is attack in Northern Ireland's histo­"Mickey" McKevitt, the group's whether the campaign against the ry. the patrons talk quietly among alleged commander, who was Real IRA has dealt the shadowy themselves -until the jukebox arrested in Ireland on March 29 group a decisive blow, or will plays a song that seems to strike a and is being held without bail on instead galvanize it to launch fresh chord. terrorism charges. attacks. 
Several of the men put down their In recent weeks, news reports -The Real IRA surfaced in the pints and halt conversations in mid­confirmed by law enforcement offi­wake of the Irish Republican sentence to join in a raucous sing­cials in Britain and Ireland -have Army's 1997 cease-fire that paved along to the Traveling Wilburys' old said an American informant work­the way for a power-sharing gov­hit "Handle Me With Care." ing for the FBI and the British ernment in Northern Ireland. 
page 6 The Observer . NEWS Monday, April 23, 2001 
Award-winning actor 
presents tribute to Shakespeare 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame will celebrate William Shakespeare's 437th birthday with a performance by Tony Award-winning actor Brian Bedford. 
Bedford will present his one-man tribute to Shakespeare, ..The 
Lunatic, the Lover and the Poet," at 7:30 p.m. April 23 in Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business. The performance drama­tizes Shakespeare's life using the playwright's words. Bedford has performed the show around the world, including more than 1,000 cities in the United States and Canada. 
Bedford studied at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art. He performed "Hamlet" at the age of 21 at the Liverpool Repertory Company, which led to highly successful performances in London's \Vest End and at Stratford upon 

Bedford 
Avon. He has played many leading roles at the Stratford Festival of Canada. 
Considered one of North America's leading classical actors, Bedford was inducted into the American Theatre Hall of Fame in 1997. Among roles performed off stage, he provided the voice of the title character in Walt Disney's "Robin Hood." 
Bedford's performance is presented by SummerShakespeare at Notre Dame, which is planning its second annual summer perfor­mance, "Much Ado About Nothing," July 25-29. Presentations of last summer's inaugural event, "Th~ Taming of the Shrew," were sellouts. 
Tickets for Bedford's performance are $10. For ticket and park­ing information call the La Fortune Student Center, 219 631-8128. 
Entrepreneuers sell McVeigh T-shirts 
Associated Press 
TERRE HAUTE, Ind. 

With thousands expected to travel to the site of Timothy McVeigh's execution, entrepre­neurs are hoping to cash in with commemorative T-shirts. 
Among the four T-shirts already available in the Terre Haute area is one bearing the words "Hoosier Hospitality/McVeigh/Terre Haute/May 16, 2001, Final Justice" and emblazoned with a picture of a syringe. 
McVeigh is scheduled to die 

by injection on May 16 for the 
1995 bombing of the Oklahoma 
City federal building, which 
killed 168 people. 
"They haven't really been fly­

ing," said Terre Haute resident 
Jim Handlin, who designed 
that shirt. "I look to have more 
sales as time gets closer and 
there's more publicity on 
national TV. 
'Tm not really in the T-shirt 

business. I just bought a 
machine, a heat press here a month ago or so," added Handlin, 65. "The idea just popped in my mind that these would sell pretty good." 
Rod Henry, president of the Greater Terre Haute Chamber of Commerce, said city officials frown on local residents profit­ing from McVeigh's death. "We just kind of hope that we can escape that kind of vendor activity." he said. 
Tony Lewis, 31, of Terre Haute is selling two pro-death­penalty T-shirts and one anti­death-penalty shirt. 
His "Stop the Killing. Let McVeigh Live" T-shirt features a man strapped to a gurney. Another shirt says, "Terre Haute Extra Hangin' Times, Die!, Die, Die!" and displays a newspaper front with McVeigh's likeness. His third shirt also uses the "Hangin' Times" theme but is profanity laden. 
Lewis, who said he has sold about 100 shirts so far, is also selling buttons. 
'Tm doing it just to make a little money," he said. 
The University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
Notre Dame Chorale & Chamber Orchestra 
Alexander Blachly, director 

Free and open to the public 
For more information, lease call {219) 631-6201 or visit htt ://www.nd.edu/-con oers 
COLOMBIA 

Troops catch Brazilian drug lord 
Associated Press 

MARANDUA 
It took fighter planes, thou­sands of troops, and a months-long manhunt in the jungle. Finally, Colombia's military seized the outlaw: a top Brazilian drug fugitive believed to have been swap­ping guns and cash with guerrillas for cocaine. 
Colombian officials say Saturday's arrest of Brazil's most notorious cocaine lord, Luiz Fernando Da Costa, shows their unflinching coop­eration with a U.S-backed war on drugs. 
The military hopes its dogged efforts to catch the trafficker -known in his country as "Fernandinho Beira Mar," for the slum where he grew up and began his notorious career -will demonstrate that Colombia's largest guerrilla group is deeply involved in the cocaine trade. 
The Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, admits it pays for its 37-year war by "taxing" poor peas­ants who grow coca, the plant used to make cocaine. But the rebels deny they operate as a drug cartel or maintain ties to international smugglers, as some U.S. officials and Colombia's armed forces have charged. 
"The FARC is going to have to demonstrate to the world that it is not dedicated to drug trafficking," President attending the Summit of the Americas. 
Andres  Pastrana  told  
reporters  Sunday  from  
Quebec,  where  he  was  

"Otherwise there will not be any international support for the peace process," he said. 
Washington is providing hundreds of millions of dol­lars in military aid to train and equip Colombian anti­narcotics troops. However. U.S.-trained units were not involved in the hunt for the 34-year-old Da Costa. 
Da Costa, who was arrested with two countrymen, on Sunday faced reporters flown to a military base outside Marandua, about 35 miles from where he was captured. 
"I don't have ties to the FARC and they have not given 
me protec­tion," said t h e Brazilian, who took a bullet in the right arm from soldiers and whose arm and hand were heavily bandaged. 
"I have been living as a farmer 

in these areas," Da Costa said. 
But speaking to reporters here, Defense Minister Luis Ramirez called the arrest "a stiff blow to the finances of the FARC." Officials said Da Costa was paying the rebels $500 a kilogram for cocaine. 
Brazilian Justice Minister Jose Gregori said Sunday his government would seek 
extradition. Since fleeing jail in 1996 where he was serving a 20-year sentence, Da Costa has accumulated new drug 
and  homicide  charges  in  
Brazil, Gregori said.  
Saturday's  arrest  in  

Morichal, a small settlement in sweltering jungles near the Brazilian border, capped a manhunt of a size not seen here since the days of Medellin drug lord Pablo Escobar. · 
Thousands of elite counter­guerrilla troops were dropped into one of Colombia's most remote areas in February in search of Da Costa and a FARC commander believed to be in business with him. 
They found rebel camps, 

"The [Revolutionary uncharted coca fields,
Armed Forces of 
secret

Colombia] is going to 
cocaine-pro­

have to demonstrate to cessing labo­ratories, and
the world that it is not 
documents

dedicated to 
the army 

drug trafficking·· says will prove FARC dealings with
Andres Pastrana 
Da Costa. Colombian President But they 
couldn't 
catch up to the Brazilian until Thursday, when authorities intercepted radio communications and detected a small plane taking off for Brazil. 
Air force fighters forced the plane down and, according to initial accounts, five men ran away. The army said Da Costa and several FARC members were on the run without food or water. 

Attention 
Sophomores! 
Order your class ring now and have it ready in thefall! 

Orders may be placedfor your class ring April 23 thr·ough April 27 9:00a.m. to 1O:OOp.m. 
Ring will be availablefor pie/cup after September J. 

HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
631-6316 
Open Monday through Saturday, 9am -1Opm Sunday, 11am -1Opm 
Monday, April 23, 2001 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
INS to charge foreign students 
outrage at the proposal because we would like to give them as
• Universities' 
they say the timing will not much information as possible.opposition may allow them to inform students Knowing the way the govern­stop fee collection of the changes. ment works, we won't see this 
"It could cause havoc if imple­moving too fast." 
mented this The direc-By ADAM COOPER summer," tor said she Tufts Daily said Jane 
was not cer­

"It could cause havoc if
Etish­tain if the fee International students study­Andrews, implemented this would apply 
,.

ing at Tufts and other American director of summer. to students schools could be hit with a $95 Tufts' already in government fee as early as next International the U.S. and 
Jane Etish-Andrews
year if new immigration regula­Center, which she was anx­tions are published before next handles director ious to let semester. immigration current stu­
Tufts International Center 
The government's affairs for the dents know if Immigration and Naturalization 800 foreign they would Service department (INS) antici­students at be affected pates to finalize the regulations the Medford/Somerville by the regulations. She also this summer and will begin to Campus. "We send out informa­added that Canadian students collect the fee 30 days later. tion to incoming international would have to pay the fee, even 
But colleges have expressed students at the end of May and though they do not require a 
OPENS THIS WEEK! 
Don't miss this funny yet touching Broadway musical! 
Thursday 
....... •• April 26th at 8 p.m. 
• •• • Friday
•

• April 27th at 8 p.m. 
•:··· ····· 7 •

• Saturday•• •• April 28th at 8 p.m. 
... 
• 
!.<• .... • 

• •• ••• . Sunday April 29th at 2:30 p.m.
'-· .. •••
..... 
~ • •
• 

Saint Mary's College
. • 

-:; : • O'Laughlin Auditorium
.. • 

•• •••• •• •• • ... • 
.. • Mjfifj;;)
•• I c....~ THE ARTS 
~NOTREDAME, IN
Showbiz ond • 

ADream... • For ticket information contact the Saint Mary's Box Office at 
284-4626 


The perfect home: That's been your dream. 
visa to study in the U.S. 
Students will be able to pay 
the one-time fee using a credit 
card over the Internet or with a 
money order drawn on a U.S. 
bank. 
If implemented, the fee will be paid by more than 100,000 students and visiting scholars annually, in addition to visa fees of at least $45. According to The Chronicle of Higher Education, the proceeds will be used to fund a tracking system containing the addresses and academic status of all foreign students in the United States. Plans for the fee were discussed last year when the INS asked institutions to collect the fee for them, but, according to Etish­And rews, nothing emerged after colleges and universities refused to act as INS branch offices. 
With all the possible adminis­trative headaches the fee may cause, several universities have written to the INS to oppose the changes, and educators are optimistic that the fee will not be implemented in the immedi­ate future. 
"It probably won't happen in the summer, but the fee may still go into effect later," said Etish-Andrews 
But many are still against the fee in principle. Sean McDermott, president of Tufts international club, said he was against the fee because he found the idea of tracking stu­dents unethical. 

Congress set to tackle education, tax cuts 
businesses some tax relief. 

Associated Press 
Democrats also are pressing on such issues as campaign
WASHINGTON 
finance legislation, prescrip­

A well-rested Congress 
tion drug benefits for seniors 

returns to work on school 
and patient rights for those in 

accountability and tax cuts, 
HMO programs.

issues at heart of the Bush 
These activities follow the 

adminis­
fairly cautious approach taken 

tration's 

so far by Republican leaders agenda. 
who finally have a soul mate in 

By mid­
the White House but also must 

week, the 
deal with a Democratic force of 
Senate is 
nearly equal strength.
to take up Congress this year has 
a major 
passed two major bills. One 
education makes it tougher to declare 
bill in line 
bankruptcy, the other over­with the Bush turns Clinton administration 
presi­
ergonomic rules aimed at 
dent's plan to improve the per­reducing workplace injuries.
formance of both the nation's 
The House has passed the 

students and the public schools 
main parts of the Bush tax 
they attend. 
plan while the Senate, in a vic­
House and Senate negotia­
tory for Sen. John McCain, R­tors also sit down this week to Ariz.. approved limits on cam­
grapple with differences in 
paign contributions. 
their approach to the budget 
House Majority Leader Dick 

for the fiscal Armey, R­
year that begins 
Texas, said

Legislation under
Oct. 1. 
Congress in 

The House consideration 
the first 75 

voted for a bud­. Compromise between days of the 
get that 
Bush adminis­

endorsed budgets passed by House and 
tration has 

Bush's 10-year, Senate been "less sen­
$1.6 trillion tax 
sational" but

. Senate vote on an
cut. The Senate, 
more produc­

in its final act education bill reflecting Bush's 
tive than the before the two-goals of holding schools more Clinton admin• 
week Easter 
istration in its

b r e a k , accountable 
opening days. approved a . Senate vote on raising the Rep. Martin package that 
Frost, D­

included more minimum wage with tax relief Texas, head of 
spending than for small businesses 
the House the president . House measure making a it Democratic 
wants and a 
Caucus, said

$1.2 trillion tax a crime to harm the fetus in a 
Republicans break. violent act against a pregnant were "deter­A vote on a 
mined to taken 

c o m p r o m i s e woman 
an unrealistic 

could come by 
approach,"

the end of the week. 
charging ahead with tax cuts In what is expected to be a before they know how much 
busy five weeks before 
the country needs for other 
Memorial Day, Republican 
priorities, and before dealingleaders hope to send a tax cut 
with urgent matters such as 
package to the president and prescription drug benefits. 
come up with a long-term 
After weeks of negotiations energy plan. 

with Democrats, Senate 
The Senate is likely to vote Republicans hope to pass an on legislation to raise the mini­education bill that will largely mum wage while giving small 
reflect Bush's goals of holding schools more accountable, 
requiring annual testing to measure student performance and providing other options to students attending failing schools. 
A tentative compromise was reached before the recess on the contentious issue of vouch­ers, under which students at substandard schools could get funds for after school tutoring or to transfer to another public
~ 

school but would not, as pro­
NOTRE DAME 
posed by Bush, allow public
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
funds to be used for private
You can bank on us to be better 
school tuition. But the opening of debate on the bill was put off until at 
Indiana and Michigan 
least Wednesday because of 
-·•~<~··· __ (..~~~!~~ 219/239-6611 • 800/522-6611 
remaining differences over 
...,111;;,,.,._ . --~ 

Outside Indiana and Michigan 
funds. Democrats say the Bush 800/400-4540 
budget proposal, while You can also stop by your nearest branch 
increasing education spending, or visit our web site at www.ndfcu.org. 
does not go far enough to meet the costs of hiring more teach­ers and building or repairing schools. 
The House this week takes

Now, with annual percentage rates as low as they are, you can live your dream. Notre Dame 
up two bills that are favorites 
Federal Credit Union can help. We'll design a fixed or adjustable-rate mortgage around your 
of social and fiscal conserva­tives but have had little suc­
specific needs. Plus, you can finance up to 100% of your home. And, we'll do it for you quickly, 
cess in past congresses. A 
with no hassles. We even offer first mortgages nationwide! Still dreaming of your perfect home? measure that makes it a crime to harm a fetus during a vio­
Notre Dame Federal Credit Union will help make it a reality. 
lent act against a pregnant ~ LENDER woman is the first showdown
ffim:i@ 
Independent of the University 

this year on the abortion issue. 
page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Monday, April 23, 2001 
San Fransisco pushes for sex-change benefits 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO 

San Francisco is prepared to make history by becoming the only city to pay for employees' sex changes -a move some say is long overdue in ending discriminatory practices against transsexuals. 
"It really is a civil rights issue," said Marcus Arana, a transgender San Francisco Human Rights Commission dis­crimination investigator. "We have an insurance issued that will pay for a hysterectomy in Mary but not in Marcus, and will pay for hormone therapy in Mary but not in Marcus." 
After a five-year fight in the city's Health Service System, the gender-switching benefits earned approval last week from a city committee and will go before the full Board of Supervisors on Monday. 
San Francisco apparently would be the only governmental body in the nation to equal benefits for equal work." 
On average, male-to-female surgery costs about $37,000, while female-to-male surgery runs about $77,000. 
The coverage extends to hor­mone treatment and medical matters such as mastectomies or breast cancer. It will not cover cosmetic procedures and can only be used after a doctor deems treatment medically nec­essary. Employees first must go through an extensive medical review process that takes up to six months. 
Even if the benefits are approved, they will not be equal, Arana said. Transsexuals would have to be employed a year by the city before they're eligible for the coverage, which also has a lifetime $50,000 cap and a 15 percent or 50 percent deductible, depending on whether the physician is in the city's health network. 
"We hope to eliminate that down to 10 percent," said 
Theresa 
Sparks, a 
"The city is recognizing transgender
make sex-
member of
change bene­this is a medical 
the city's
fits available. 
condition and there are 

Human
The state of 
medical procedures that Rights
Minnesota 
Commission.
offered such can correct it. " 
Sparks
benefits, but Theresa Sparks 
underwent
the program 
San Fransisco 

surgery to
was phased 
Human Rights Comission become a
out in 1998. The issue was discussed in Oregon, but a commission decided against it in 1999. 
Several supporters have pub­licly endorsed the measure, and no one has spoken against it. Opposition has come only in e­mails and phone calls from peo­ple living outside San Francisco, mainly Texas, said Board Supervisor Mark Leno. founder of the Transgender Civil Rights Implementation Task Force. 
The term transgender covers a broad range of categories including cross-dressers, trans­vestites, transsexuals and peo­ple born with characteristics of both sexes. 
"We have transgender people living and working among us," Leno said. "They deserve the same dignity and respect as every other citizen. One way is to make sure the city provides 
woman last 
year in Thailand because she couldn't afford it in the United States. She's paid about $30,000 since she began making her transi­tion in 1997. but will still be able to enjoy the city's benefits, which would kick in July 1. 
Sparks said she hopes San Francisco's adoption of trans­gender benefits sends a mes­sage to other municipalities that all employees need to be treat­ed equally. She also hopes insurance companies will begin extending similar benefits to private employers. 
"It's a symbolic benefit. The city is recognizing this is a med­ical condition and there are medical procedures that can correct it," Sparks said. 
Astronauts install robot arm 
. First Canadian spacewalker helps set up billion­dollar project 
Associated Press 

CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. 
Two spacewalking astro­nauts successfully installed a massive billion-dollar robot arm on the international space station on Sunday and unfolded the two-handed limb. 
"Look at the size of this thing," space shuttle Endeavour crewman Chris Hadfield marveled as he tugged open the 58-foot, 3,600-pound arm. The arm remained bent at the elbow and was to be extended Monday by the space station crew working inside. 
It was Canada's biggest day ever in space: the first Canadian spacewalker hook­ing up the new Canadian­built rbbot arm on space sta­tion Alpha. 
At the conclusion of the seven-hour spacewalk, Mission Control congratulated Hadfield and his U.S. space­walking partner, Scott Parazynski, in English and French and played a record­ing of "Oh Canada," the coun­try's anthem. The recording was made at a Montreal hockey game. 
"We're real proud of your work up there getting Canadarm2 operational," said Steven MacLean, a Canadian astronaut working in Mission Control. "And if you turn around and look down, I believe you're right over Newfoundland." 
The new arm will serve as a high-tech construction crane throughout the lifetime of the space station. With a hand on both ends and seven joints along its length, the arm is designed to move across the space station like an inch­worm and perform chores wherever needed. 
Hadfield's performance was especially impressive: He had to fight burning eyes as he worked 240 miles up. His eyes began filling with tears 

Dear Lisa Lecture 
Speaker 'Ihm Santoro tells the story of his daughter Lisa, whom he lost to dating violence. "Educate Yourself About Dating Violence." 
Speaking at St. Mary's College in Stapleton Lounge at 7:30 on Monday, April 23rd. 
Sponsored by Campus Alliance for Rape Education 
midway through the space­walk, and he had to shut them. After several minutes. his left eye improved. 
"My right eye is kind of half-closed all the time, but I think it's going to clear," Hadfield assured his crew­mates inside Endeavour. "I tell you. it's weird spacewalk­ing and floating through space with your eyes closed." 
NASA officials suspect hel­met-antifog soap or sweat got in his eyes. 
Pilot Jeffrey Ashby began the day's events, using Endeavour's 50-foot robot arm like a crane to lift the new station arm from the shuttle payload bay. The new arm had to be double­expandable fasteners into hinges to permanently bolt the pieces together. They had trouble tightening the fasten­ers and had to apply extra force. 
The arm will be cranked up by the space station crew on Monday and commanded to step off to another location on the laboratory, where it will remain anchored for the next year. 
On Tuesday, Hadfield and Parazynski will go back out­side to wire up the arm in its new location. Throughout the rest of the week, the space station crew will practice using the arm. handing its still attached launch cradle to Endeavour's robot arm 

folded to fit "We 're real proud ofyour and mimick­in the pay­ing what it
work up there getting 
load bay will do dur­
Canadaarm2
and was ing the next still in its operation al . ., shuttle visit launch cra­in June. The dle when station arm
Steven Maclean
A s h b y will be need­attached it Canadian astronaut ed then to 
to the space sta­tion. 

An hour later, Hadfield and Parazynski ventured outside and quickly connected power. data and video cables to the new arm, bringing it to life. Then they removed eight 4­foot-long bolts that secured the arm to its launch cradle. "Unleash the arm," Parazynski said eagerly. 
Parazynski positioned him­self beneath the arm like a weightlifter to raise it 3 5 degrees. "Getting ready for the Olympics clean-and-jerk," he announced. He hoisted it, then called out to Hadfield: "Unfold away." 
Perched on the end of the shuttle crane for traction, Hadfield unfolded the new station arm while being lifted by crane operator Ashby. Once the arm was opened, the spacewalkers drilled 
hook up a 
pressure chamber for spacewalking astronauts. 
The Canadians will send up a rail car for the arm next year, to extend its reach even more. Fingers will be launched in 2003 and make the arm even more dexterous. NASA expects the arm, over time, to take over many of the jobs previously done by spacewalking astronauts and reduce the number of outings needed to build and maintain the outpost. 
During their excursion, Hadfield and Parazynski also attached a radio antenna to the space·station that will be used by future spacewalkers. They took time to savor the sights. including the Southern Lights, and to peek in at the three station residents through the laboratory win­dow and pose for pictures. 


NEED CASH? 
NEW DONORS EARN.$20 TODAY· 
MENTION THIS AD FORA$5.00 BONUS 
Up to $145.00 a month in 2-4 hours a week 

SERA CARE PLASMA 

234-6010 515 LINCOLNWAYWEST 
• 

Monday, April 23, 200 I The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
PERU 
Military shoots down plane carrying American missionaires 
. Officials believed plane was carrying drug traffickers 
Associated Press 
LIMA, Peru 

A plane carrying American missionaries that apparently was mistaken for a drug flight and shot down over the Amazon had received clearance to land and moments later Peru's air force fired on it without warning, relatives said Sunday. 
The relatives' comments were at odds with a version by Peru's military that the plane failed to identify itself and was flying without a flight plan in an area frequented by drug traffickers. 
Missionary Veronica "Roni" Bowers, 35, and her infant daughter, Charity, were both killed by the Peruvian gunfire Friday, apparently by a single bullet that passed through the woman's body and entered the child's skull as she sat on her mother's lap, her brother-in-law said. 
The single-engine 
135 crash-landed in the Amazon River near the jungle town of Huanta, some 626 miles northeast of Lima. The sur­vivors clung to the pontoons in the river waters. Peruvians rescued the pilot, 42­year-old Kevin Donaldson, who suffered a crushed leg bone and severed arteries in his foot caused by the gunfire, and the husband and son of the woman killed in the shooting. 
The husband. Jim Bowers, 37, was debriefed by Peruvian authorities before returning home to North Carolina on Sunday with the couple's 6-year-old son, Cory. Donaldson was reportedly headed to a Philadelphia hospital for surgery. 
U.S. officials announced late Saturday that drug interdiction flights over Peru were being suspended pending a full investigation. 
A key dispute is whether the seaplane had a flight plan when it took off Friday morning from a section of the Amazon River where Peru, Brazil and Colombia are separated. 
President Bush said Sunday that U.S. officials at the time of the attack had been 
plane, which was being "Here was a plane helping Peru's militarytracked by a U.S. identify possible drug
following a regular route. 
counter-drug surveil­smugglers by providing
lance plane, had contact­Drug runners do not information, such as ed the air tower in the follow regular routes" tail numbers for planesjungle city of Iquitos and without a flight plan. received landing clear­"Our role was top
Richmond Donaldson
ance about 10 minutes simply to pass on infor• 
before .it was downed, father of pilot Kevin Donaldson mation," Bush said in 
said Richmond Donaldson, father of pilot 
Kevin Donaldson. 
"Here was a plane following a regular route. Drug runners do not follow regular routes," he said. 
"There was the contact with the tower that these other planes should have heard," the pilot's father said. "They should have checked the plane's number­ing. It was just recently registered." 
After being hit by the gunfire, the Cessna Quebec, where he was 
attending the Summit of the Americas. 
A U.S. government official in Washington, speaking on condition of anonymity, said that an American anti­drug surveillance plane alerted Peruvians that the missionaries' plane was operating without a flight plan in airspace frequented by drug runners. He said it was up to Peruvian officials to then identify the plane's intentions and, he said, they mis-
STUDENT ORGANIZED LECTURE 
Professor Michael Sherry, distinguished historian from Northwestern University, will speak on the topic -­
"DON'T ASK, DON'T TELL": 
The Great Debate on Gays-in-the-Military 1993-4 
All are invited. Q & A to follow 
Monday, April 30 
7:00 pm Lafortune Ballroom 
Sponsored by the History Department, Knott Hall, the Student Union, the University Standing Committee for Gay and Lesbian Needs, College Democrats and College Republicans 

SOURCE: ESRI AP 
takenly decided it was carrying drugs. Under current agreements, Peru can use 
U.S. data only to attack a plane that is fly­ing without a flight plan. Peruvian fighters must first try to make radio contact and visually signal a suspect aircraft to land for inspection before opening fire. If the pilot balks, warning shots must be fired. 
"None of that was done," said Jim Bowers' older brother, Phil. a trained pilot who sat in on his brother's debriefing by Peruvian authorities. 
The Peruvian air force, which has expressed regret for the incident, said in a statement Saturday that the missionary plane entered Peruvian air space unan­nounced from Brazilian territory and was fired upon after Donaldson failed to respond to "international e_rocedures of identification and interception." 
Phil Bowers disputed that version. "There was no communication. It hap­pened very fast. The planes flew by first, did some swooping, and then came in from behind and started shooting," he told The 
Associated Press in Iquitos, 625 miles northeast of Lima. 
One plane, he said, kept firing as the survivors clung to the wreckage in the water. "We've got hun­dreds of witnesses from the shore, Peruvians who were watching from the village of Huanta," he said. The 
U.S. surveillance plane also witnessed the air attack, he added. 
"Why didn't they call and check the registration?" he said. "Sounds like a bunch of vigilante, hot shot pilots. Either that or someone higher up ordered the pilots to shoot." · 
Mario Justo, chief of Iquitos' airport, told The Associated Press on Saturday that the plane had a flight plan and that its pilot was in radio con­tact with Iquitos' airport control tower. 
. Survivors return to families in UaS. 
Associated Press 
MORRISVILLE, N.C 
Missionaries whose ·plane 
was shot down in Peru 
returned Sunday to the United 
States to see their families for 
the first time since the crash. 
Jim Bowers, his 6-year-old 
son Cory, and his brother Phil 
Bowers arrived at Raleigh­
Durham International Airport 
early Sunday afternoon, said 
Patti Haller, a spokeswoman 
for the Association of Baptists 
for World Evangelism. 
The New Cumberland, Pa., 
group sponsored the mission­
ary work of Bowers and his 
wife, Veronica, who was killed 
in the shooting along with the 
couple's 7-month-old daugh• 
ter, Charity. 
The plane's pilot, 41-year­old Kevin Donaldson, arrived in Philadelphia on Sunday for medical treatment. Donaldson was shot in both calves but was able to make an emer­gency landing on the Amazon River. Peruvian villagers in dugout canoes rescued the survivors. 
Gordon Donaldson. an osteo­
pathic doctor in Morgantown, 
Pa., said his brother sounded 
upbeat when the two spoke by 
telephone Saturday night, as 
his brother prepared to board 
an airplane in Peru. 
"Certainly it could have been a whole lot worse. He could have been one of the dead, or they all could have been dead," Gordon Donaldson said Sunday. 
Donaldson will be admitted to Reading General Hospital, said public relations executive Brian Tierney, who said the White House had asked him to help handle reporters' ques­tions. 
The Peruvian air force shot down the missionaries' plane after mistakenly identifying it as carrying drugs. Drug inter­diction flights over Peru have been suspended in the wake of the shooting, U.S. officials said. 
Gordon Donaldson ques­tioned why the Peruvian plane's pilot and U.S. authori­ties monitoring the anti-drug effort did not recognize the plane. 
"There are only four or five civilian airplanes that fly out of the city of Iquitos," Gordon Donaldson said. "His airplane has been down there for 13 years. so it is not a foreign air­plane to the air travel down there." 



O
THE 

page 10 BSERVER Monday, April 23, 200 l 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Nacre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Kerry Smith  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Pat McElwee SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadter SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Grecco SAINT MA.Ry's EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Karie McKenna 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF ........................................ 631-4 542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFJCE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT........................................... ......631-5303 observer. viewpoim. l@nd.edu SPORTS ................. ······ .................. ...............631-4 543 
observer .spores. I@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4 $40 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MAR\"s.............................................631-4324 
observer .smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS........... ......631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:llobsm;er.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, SPorts, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
uchivcs to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
staff
August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudencs of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advercisemencs, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Quertions regarding Observer policm should be direct­ed to Editor in ChefMike Connolly. 

Neoliberalism 101 
This past weekend leaders from the Americas came to Quebec City to figure out how to create a vast free trade zone called the Free Trade Area of the Americas (FTM}. There were also at least 30 thousand protesters on the Aaron Kreider streets. and in one of many solidarity actions another five Think, thousand people Question. rallied and shut Resist down the Washington-British Columbia border. 
The FT M is part of a neoliberal eco­nomic agenda that wants to take back the gains won by past mass movements like the labor and environmental move­ments. Nonviolent direct action has allowed Americans to win a decent level of rights, democracy, prosperity and environmental protection. However, cor­porations and the rich are not happy about having to pay the costs for a social welfare state and environmental regula­tion. 
Neoliberalism is the reentrenchment of capitalism. One of its goals is to reduce the level of state involvement in the econ­omy to maximize the area for profit­seeking corporations. Neoliberalism seeks to end state involvement in nation­al healthcare, in supporting agriculture, or ownership of any part of the economy. If not resisted, this logic could even end publicly funded education. 
The way neoliberalism justifies its attack on public programs is by calling public funding a "barrier to free trade." An e~ample of how this plays out hap­pened several years ago. A social-democ­ratic Ontario provincial government wanted to create a public auto-insurance program to save motorists money, but it had to back away from this effort since under NAFTA it could be sued by American corporations for the loss of a market. 
Neoliberalism's other main goal is to extend the unrestricted market economy to every country in the world because the more markets there are, the more money corporations can make. This requires putting pressure on countries that would prefer a mixed social-democratic form of economic development. 
Countries are told to reduce their social programs and make it easy for foreign investors to exploit their cheap labor and natural resources. This pressure is achieved by cutting off foreign invest­ment, economic aid and if necessary using military force like NATO's interven­tion in Yugoslavia which forced the Socialist party out of power. 
Free trade has little to do with freedom and everything to do with giving power to corporations. Another frightening devel­opment is global enforcement of "intel­lectual property rights." This allows cor­porations, concentrated in the rich states that can afford to do expensive research, to monopolize patents on life-saving medicine. If a poor state wants to pro­duce generic drugs to save lives of its citi­zens, under World Trade Organization (WfO) rules corporations can sue it and stop it. 
Does anyone else think something is 
wrong when state leaders _______ are able to discuss how important democra­
cy is and to choose ---.. to make it a ~....,.~ 
requirement for being in the FTM, only while they are guarded 
by a two mile fence to keep out the -..--~ 
rabble? , ,-.;, What if dur-It-, 1/.ing their dis-/~ r: cussions thou-~ l\ • sands of police ~ , f:! used liberal ~ ~~ . amounts of tear •.,:••·. . gas. water cannons •··' and three-inch rubber ---~ bullets against protesters? Just having a 10-foot fence was not enough for the forces of repression. After the protesters proved they could topple it the police decided to gas anyone who got near it. The police also closed down the protesters' medical center. Some activists say the police repression is worse than it was at the WTO protest in Seattle. 
It would be surprising given the-level of violence on the part of the police if pro­testers were to remain nonviolent. So it is true that some protesters have thrown back tear gas canisters to police lines. However this action serves primarily to reduce the state violence done to the pro­testers. Other protesters started a couple fires, perhaps in dumpsters, likely with the intention of self-defense as they also made barricades. 
The only real protester violence that I have heard about was throwing rocks and three Molotov cocktails. Perhaps there were some scuffies between police and protesters, but in my experience police tend to win these hands-down and very few protesters are stupid enough to charge a police line. Thus while protest­ers engaged in a small number of repre­hensible violent acts, for the most part the violence came from the police who decided that they had the right to drive everyone off the streets. 
The police did not have to do this, for they had a choice. Last year on April 16, I participated in a demonstration against 
the IMF and World Bank in 
Washington D.C. In D.C. several 

~ thousand activists had taken 
~1':: over the streets and were 
~ n?nviolen~ly bl?ckad.ing 
~ mtersect10ns m a circle 
around the IMF and World 
Bank meeting to stop it 
from happening. 
~· However, unlike the 
events in Quebec City 
~..J' and Seattle, in D.C. the 
, ""1' police used extremely 

~ little tear gas or pepper r,,/ ~ spray and no rubber bul­F'f: .I 2 lets. During the primary < ~. ~ day of action. I did not see 
'-= , , any tear gas, pepper spray. 
rubber bullets or even any 
police arrest activists. It is true 
that the police arrested five hun­
dred people the day before and 

shutdown the protest headquarters, but at least on the primary day of action things were relatively peaceful. 
We need to take back our streets for democratic dissent and stop this state violence. We also need to replace corpo­rate-sponsored "free-trade" agreements with global justice that invests in people. 
Aaron Kreider is a graduate student in sociology. His column appears every other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Paying homage to the thesaurus 
As I perused your quotidian periodical. I chanced upon an abhorration -Tyler Whatley's myopic cosmology and his wan­ton butchery of the English language. I shall begin with his insu­lar worldview. Mr. Whatley's blatant neglect of alternative theo­logical views is reprobate, given the framework of the University's current progressive minority policies. How petty is the simplistic dichotomy of heaven and hell? Is he blind to the views of other theological constructs, e.g .. Hinduism, Buddhism, Wicca, Zoroastrianism, et. al.? Mr. Whatley's religious views notwithstanding. his gross grammatical impropriety and fla­grant disregard for modern American syntax is deplorable. 
Is no one on the editorial staff of your fine publication wise to the proper usage of the present subjunctive? His egregious error belies a frightening simplicity of mind. In the future, The Observer would surely do well to more prudently redact Mr. Whatley's futile attempt at witty satire. 
Brendan Prendergast, Adam Shanko, 
Cole Bennett and Lance Gallop freshmen Keough Hall April 19, 2001 
DILBERT 

I 
NOW FOR THE WEEKLY WALLY RE.PORT. 

SCOTT ADAMS 

E 
0 
'-! 
0•
@ 
~ 
.g 
a II i 
E 
0 
<,> 
t: 

WALLY STRUGGLED TO MAINTAIN HIS MORALE DESPITE THE NINETY PERCENT 
DROP IN HIS STOCK OPTIONS. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Liberal -a power worshipper without the 
., 
power. 
George Orwell writer 



THE 

Monday, April 23, 2001 OBSERVER page 11 
Utter hysterics 
Some people are simply upset -shocked -that the University of Notre Dame would go and invite the President of the United States to its commencement ceremony. And offer him an honorary doctor­ate, no less. So, they've started a petition. which as of 2 p.m. Sunday had a mighty 312 signatures. (Well. technically 313, but one name is Iman E. Diot, so I don't think that's real. If I'm wrong, then Mr /Ms. Diot, I apolo­gize.) 
The petition, which is online at www.peti­tiononline.com/ndbush, exoresses the "anger" of the signees that we would dare invite the leader of the free world to address the graduating class of 2001. Why, don't we know that the President "contradict[s] Notre Dame's mission as a Catholic university?" Or that even the act of inviting him "demeans Notre Dame?" They also "insist that all future invitations to address our Commencement Exercises be determined in con­sultation with the faculty of Notre Dame." Well, if there were ever a time that the faculty would turn down the President of the United States, be it George W. Bush, Bill Clinton or Josiah Bartlett, God help us. 
What could fuel the anger of this collection of students, faculty and alumni? Why, of course. Bush's policies. The fact that he's wearing a mantle that only 41 other men have borne apparently stands in stark irrelevance to his "ruthless agenda." 
This wouldn't be so intellectually dishonest if the petition's laun­dry list of Bush's so-called sins weren't riddled with inaccuracies. According to the petition, created by "concerned faculty" and com­posed by Peter Walshe, the Bush administration will, "inter alia" ­"among other things" to the unpretentious -"give a huge tax refund to the rich, cut by 86 percent programs that provide health care access for the uninsured, abandon the environment, both nationally and globally, to the predatory drive for corporate profits and promote another arms race with its Strategic Defense Initiative." 
In fact, the Bush tax plan, which is paltry by the standards of previous tax cuts proposed by John F. Kennedy and Ronald Reagan, makes even more sense now with the combination of massive bud­get surpluses and the fact that Americans are taxed at a higher rate than at any time since the Second World War. And the rich get big­ger tax refunds because they pay the most taxes, the richest 1 per­cent of taxpayers pay more than one-third of all federal income taxes. But the highest rate reductions go to citizens in the lowest tax brackets. Fully six million people will be dropped from the tax rolls entirely. These facts shouldn't require mentioning. but appar­ently some people haven't been told. 
The "cut" referred in the petition is actually not a cut at all; it's a reduction in the proposed increase. Which means health care pro­grams will stilJ see their budgets increased, but not as much as originally planned. 
But the uninsured will still be aided with a health credit of $2,000. The Bush budget also commits $3.6 billion to build commu­nity health centers. The environment is where Bush's opposition shrieks the loudest, which is amazing because Bush has done virtu­ally nothing. First, Bush officially buried the ill-advised Kyoto 
:Protocol, which hampers the industrialized nations of the world while giving developing nations carte blanche to pollute all they want. But the Kyoto Protocol had already been shot down by the United States Senate by an astounding 95-0 vote. Not even Japan, the home country of Kyoto, supported the policy. (75-571) . 
Then Bush torpedoed a last-second executive order made by the Clinton administration on arsenic in water supplies. The new regu­lations would hit hardest small rural communites where arsenic occurs as a result of nature, not pollution. They could spend billions trying to comply with the regulations. Furthermore, according to a 1999 National Academy of Sciences report, there is no evidence 
_ that the current level of 50 parts per billion (ppb) is contributing to any sickness or death. (Just for comparison purposes, the Hesburgh Library is 429,780 square feet. Applying a 50 ppb ratio would leave you with a square an inch and three-quarters on all sides.) Just recently. the Environmental Protection Agency has issued a report that they will tighten the existing regualtions by at least 60 percent, but probably not to the constricting levels of the Clinton regulation. Finally. the petition-writers are about 20 years off with their attack of the SDI, considering that was the policy of Ronald Reagan, which was scrapped long ago. There are always going to be some people who are disappointed or upset by the policies of a president. You may be shocked to learn that I had some issues with President Clinton when he was in office, yes, it's true, I'm afraid. However, the acceptance of a president to speak at our commencement ceremonies can never demean the University. And if you're going to take offense with our elected offi­cials. at least be sure the facts are straight and you don't launch into utter hysterics. 
Mike Marchand is an off-campus senior English major who is still jobless. He wants to direct petitioners to his e•mail address, Marchand.3@nd.edu, where any arguments will be heard and sum­marily annihilated. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those o/The Observer. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Answering false impressions of ROTC 
I am writing this article in response to The Observer's headline story on April 19 regarding Pax Christi's protest of the ROTC Pass in Review. First of all, I would like to applaud Pax Christi for staging a protest in order to let their views be known, and for the manner in which they car­ried it out. I was particularly impressed with the open letter printed in The Observer on the day of the Pass in Review and was happy to see con­cerned citizens exercising their right to organize. 
However, I have found that Pax Christi did not really understand the purpose of the Pass in Review or certain aspects of ROTC, and I would like to clear this up. The Observer article stated that "the pass in review is an annual event in which ROTC students are honored and blessed by the University President," and a member of Pax Christi with whom I spoke had this same impression. 
This is incorrect. The purpose of the annual Pass in Review ceremony is for the University President to inspect the troops who then honor him as the representative of the University as a whole. This is an important distinction. The cadet officers of the ROTC units salute Father Malloy and in so doing honor the University and thank it and its student body for allowing us to be here. The salute is reserved for persons of honor or higher rank, so in saluting the University President we are demonstrating our respect to the University. 
Furthermore, I have a problem with Pax Christi's view that ROTC students do not take sufficient courses in ethics or "instruction in Catholic social justice," as member Mike Griffm said in the Observer article. ROTC students are required to take the same theology, philosophy, and social science courses as every other student here. My question is: Why are they being viewed as special cases or delinquents that need extra instruction? 
Pax Christi doesn't seem to acknowledge that it is the government that orders bombings and deployment of forces; the Army doesn't just decide to sack a small village. The military has no control over where it is deployed. 
If Pax Christi believes the military is being used unjustly, then perhaps they should write their senators, organize marches or protests against government decision-makers or assist in the electoral campaigns of more "just" candi­dates for congress or even the presidency. Many past and present congressmen and congress­women are graduates of Notre Dame and there are many students here today that will be future leaders in our government, yet Pax Christi doesn't seem to focus any lobbying on govern• ment majors. 
I would like to supplement my point about eth• ical education at Notre Dame. I have met ROTC cadets from all over the country (have you, Pax Christi?) and I can say without a shadow of a doubt that the education we get at Notre Dame, centered in Christian ethics, makes a huge dif­ference in the caliber of officers we graduate. Our students in general are able to make sound moral decisions and recognize moral dilemmas better than students at other schools. I say this from experience. We take our courses here with the added recognition of the awesome responsi­bility that is being presented to us as officers in the military. 
My response to Pax Christi in general is this: Focusing specifically on ROTC at Notre Dame is unproductive. It is our elected civilian leaders in our government that decide how to use our mili­tary. I therefore suggest that you focus your energy on those who can actually help you to realize your goals. 
John Valainis 
senior Sorin College April 20, 200l 

Meat takes front burner 
It is well-known Lenten tradition at Notre Dame to whine about the absence of meat in the dining halls. In Thursday's edition of The 
Observer, Michael Sweikar did the unthinkable and brought up a dead horse in The Observer. Sweiker argues that by removing meat from the dining hall, the University is denying Catholics the experience of sacrifice and is also being unchristian by not accepting non­Catholics. Sweiker also points out that the tradition has no bib­lical basis. These are three of the most common arguments by students on the subject. They are also three of the most lame arguments you could put together. Three bad arguments put together make one really bad argument. 
The dining hall is part of a Catholic university, and there­fore it is a Catholic dining hall. Just as a Catholic mother would not serve her children meat on those days, neither should the din­
v 

ing hall. Sweiker says that God gives us free will, and so therefore, the din­ing hall should give us the option of eating meat. However, we also ask God to give us this day our daily bread and lead us not into temptation. If you want more tempta­tion, then there are plenty of other schools you could attend. 
When non-Catholics decide to attend Notre Dame, they do so with the understanding that they will be living in a Catholic environment for four years. While we should make every attempt 
to learn and live with each other, it is ignorant 
to shed our rituals for their sake. We are hope­
lessly shortsighted if we compromise our faith in order to achieve an artificial sense of inclusion. If you were a guest in the house of an Orthodox Jew. would you ask for pork chops? If you did, you would be stupid and arrogant. Sweiker finishes his letter by claiming that the tradition of 
meatless Fridays has no biblical grounds. He does this after an effort to explain why the tradi­
tion is so important. I have no idea what his point is. The debate about the legitimacy and meaning of the ritual is a completely separate from the debate about whether or not our dining halls should partic­ipate. 

If you chose to skip meat on Fridays during Lent, then the lack of meat in the dining hall is a non-issue. Ifyou wanted to eat meat, order out. Please don't come up with half-baked argu­ments about how our administration is oppressing students and neglecting its Catholic heritage just because you want a stinking burger. It is embarrass­
ing to read viewpoint letters whose only real 
purpose is to complain (and for that, I apolo­
gize). 
Steven Reed 
semor 
C-arroll Hall April 19, 2001 
C 


page 12 
Spanish eating, American ideals 
Two days before boarding my plane from Chicago to Madrid last summer, I received an e-mail from a friend who was already in Europe and had begun her back­packing odyssey across the Continent. "They're all really thin. and they smoke constantly!" she wrote of the Europeans. A broad generalization. 
surely, but it was one I found to be near to the truth. In the weeks to come. as I too became a foreigner amongst swarms of Europeans. I couldn't help but notice how different their society seemed. 
Compared to America's constantly growing waistlines. the slim and trim silhouettes of Europeans were but a 

shadow of our own. I couldn't figure Jackie 
out how they did it, considering hard-Ostrowski ly any products carried a "low-fat" or "low-calorie" label. 
During the first few days, I gri-Scene Writer maced when I was offered only whole milk, full-fat butter (margarine wasn't even an option). and huge portions of fried meats at mealtimes. We ate at 9 or even 10 p.m., going directly against the guidelines of American healthy eating. Guided by doctors, pacts with friends and "SELF" maga­zine, l had trained myself to never even snack after a six o'clock dinner. 
Worst of all, my friend's comment about the ubiqui­tous presence of cigarettes proved to be true. Within 30 seconds of disembarking in Madrid's Barajas Airport, I found myself choking in a cloud of smoke as clusters of people lit up all over the building. We, weren't free from the smoky haze anywhere -not in restaurants, hotels, theatres or even airplanes. It didn't take long to realize that my raised eyebrows and subtly directed coughs wouldn't make the air any cleaner. 
Surrounded by smoke and fatty foods, I wasted no time in setting out for a run ... only to be greeted at the front door of my new home by the blank-faced stares of my Spanish family. They couldn't understand the impor­tance of a workout schedule, something I had taken for granted at home. I tried to explain my reasons: it released stress, made me feel better and offered a break from a busy day. But they remained convinced it was about something else -my weight. 
To them, America was a nation of hypocrites -we whine about our weight and fork over millions to gyms and diet industries. only to infiltrate the world with McDonald's, Burger King and Wendy's. Our nation's almost paradoxical fixation with food and exercise had spread to other parts oLthe world, only to be rejected by 
more traditional mindsets. 

As my semester overseas continued, I noticed that in all the conversations I had with my Spanish friends. not once did any of them complain about their weights or appearance. They ate to take pleasure in food; no one counted calories or worried about how many minutes of exercise it would take to combat an extra helping. 
While I found the strange combinations and portion sizes of our meals disturbing, I noticed that my Spanish family rarely, if ever, ate processed or pre-prepared foods. My Spanish mother cooked every meal; starting an hour before lunch I'd hear the sizzling of the frying pan and see her juggling ingredients to prepare the lat­est dish of the day. And no one ever ate on the run ­even though fast food restaurants have opened every­where, I never saw a drive-thru window. 
For Spaniards, life is about seeking pleasure and enjoying oneself to the fullest. Counting fat grams just isn't compatible to such a hedonistic outlook. 
I couldn't equate these healthier approaches to food with the extremely unfavorable acceptance of cigarettes and prevailing anti-exercise sentiment. As my stay lengthened, however, I began to notice a more positive stance toward eating and food in general that I rarely observe in America. 
Outside of my grandmother's kitchen, where I am openly encouraged to stuff myself with home-cooked food, the pressures and inconsistencies of American views remain. Eat a steak and chocolate cake to impress your man on a date, but be careful -one steak too many and you're on the way to Jenny Craig. Be proud about whatever size you are -just don't open any fash­ion or beauty magazine to realize American media only accepts a size zero. There doesn't seem to be a middle ground. 
In America I'm grateful to breathe cleaner air in restaurants and to hunt down low-calorie choices when I want them. But I'm convinced we can learn something from Spaniards. We need to enjoy more and obsess less. All the time we spend rushing to the gym and downing low-fat potato chips and brownies doesn't seem to get us anywhere but to a larger dress-size. Maybe the truth lies between those clouds of smoke -that no one nation has all the right answers, but a melding of concepts can result in healthier attitudes about our well-being. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

AFP Photo European dining is done in a more casual atmosphere than in the United States. Europe has a lower rate of obesity and heart disease. One reason may be the less stressful environment In which they dine. 
Monday, April 23, 2001 
Show good f• 
Scene reviews the 1 

By MATT KILLEN 
Scene Writer 
The story of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde came alive this past weekend on the local stage when the Broadway Theatre League presented the musical "Jekyll & Hyde" at the Morris Performing Arts Center. 
The story is derived from the famil­iar novella "The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde" by Robert Louis Stevenson. The basic outline of the story is now a well-known tradition in modern culture. Set in 1880s London. it is the tale of Dr. Henry Jekyll (played by Stephen Valahovic). a scientist who is convinced he can separate the good and evil in man and subsequently eliminate the evil portion with the right mix of potions and chemicals. 
Afraid he is attempting to play God, the local board of governors rejects Dr. Jekyll's project, disallowing him patients on which to experiment. As a last resort, Jekyll tries the formula on himself and births an alter-ego ­the diabolical Mr. Hyde. 
As the musical plays itself out. Jekyll attempts to control and con­tain an ever-growing Hyde from fully taking over his body. Meanwhile, Hyde terrorizes London with a series of murders. 
The musical -like the book ­explores, through physical represen­tation the dual nature of man. Hyde is the evil portion of Jekyll's soul. His is an outward manifestation of Jekyll's most deepest and darkest thoughts. Moreover, he is a violent and dangerous source of evil that is suddenly unleashed on the public. The story focuses on Jekyll's inability to control his now liberated evil spir­it. 
A few scenes in the musical portray the duality in an excellent fashion. Jekyll's argument with himselfi'Hyde is of particular interest. Here Jekyll attempts to regain control or himself and eliminate Hyde. Hyde, however. knows he cannot be eliminated. He is evil, and once unleashed, there is nothing Jekyll can do about it, ironi­cally contradicting Jekyll's experi­mental thesis. 
The musical has fascinating visuals throughout. While the set pieces aren't too extravagant (aside from Jekyll's Jab, which is revealed with particular flourish near the end of the first act}, the production pre­ferred using lighting to create some truly impressive images. 
Some of the most striking of these images come during Hyde's murder spree at the beginning of the second act. At one point, one of Hyde's tar­gets is afraid for his life and is plan­ning to leave town. While he explains this. Hyde's shadow grows larger and larger behind him until Hyde's shad­ow towers on the screen behind him. 
The use of shadows and darkness also helps to distinguish the different Jekyll and Hyde scenes. Jekyll's scenes are generally well-lit and clear with blues and whites engulfing the stage. Hyde's scenes. on the other hand, are darkly lit and cast large and brooding shadows. Jekyll's 

.. 


Monday, April 23, 2001 page 13 
or a Jekyll, but the rest would do better to Hyde 
Broadway Theatre League '.s production ofthe musical ''Jekyll & Hyde" at 
ti·.. 

e 

Monday  Tuesday Wednes;~tay -IhLtrsday%:w  
-7:30 p.m. "The Lunatic, the Lover and the Poet" Brian Bedford, Tony award•winning actor presents Shakespeare's life in his own words. Presented in Jordan Auditorium. $10 admission.  ~ 7 & 9 p.m. SSA's International -7:30 p.m. FTT presents "Oedipus -7:30 p.m. The Notre Dame Humor Artists present "HA! Unplugged." Skits,Film Festival presents "The Hex" in Washington Hall. Tickets avail­Improv and Mayhem in Hesburgh LibraryGrandfather" in Montgomery able at Lafortune Box Office. Auditorium. Admission is FREE!!!Theatre. -8 p.m. ND Chorale and Chamber -7:30 p.m. FIT presents "Oedipus Rex"Orchestra Concert in Basilica of the in Washington Hall. Tickets available atSacred Ileart. Admission is FREE!!! LaFortune Box Office.  
-10:30 p.m. S.U.B. Movie "Billy Elliot" in 155 DeBartolo. $2 Admission. -10:30 p.m. S.U.B. Movie "Proof of Life" in 101 DeBartolo. $2 Admission.  
Friday  Saturday Sunday  
-7:30 p.m. FTT presents "Oedipus  -7:30 p.m. FIT presents "Oedipus Rex" in Washington Hall. -2:30 p.m. FTT presents "Oedipus Rex" in Washington  
Rex" in Washington Hall. Tickets avail­ Tickets available at LaFortune Box Office. hall. Tickets available at Lafortune Box Office.  
able at LaFortune Box Office.  -7:30 & 9:45 p.m. Cinema@theSnite Movie "A Summer's -5:30 p.m. Play chess in North Dining Hall (Farley  
~ 7:30 & 9:45 p.rn. Cinema@theSnite Movie "A Summer's Tale." $2 Admission. -8 & 10:30 p.rn. S.U.B. Movie "Proof of Life" in 155 DeBartolo. $2 Admission. -8 & 10:30 p.m. S.U.B. Movie "Billy  Tale." $2 Admission. entrance). ~ 8 & 10:30 p.m. S.U.B. Movie "Proof of Life" in 155 DeBartolo. $2 Admission. ~ 8 & 10:30 p.m. S.U.B. Movie "Billy Elliot" in 101 DeBartolo. $2 Admission.  
Elliot" in 101 DeBartolo. $2 Admission.  

the Morris Performing Arts Center 
lab -being the source of this mess -is sort of a mixture of the two, combining the different effects to portray a melancholy feel. 
The actors performed well, particularly Valahovic. Not surprisingly, he was the actor that was given the most to work with (playing both title roles). He accomplished the difficult task of playing two char­acters simultaneously with apparent ease and grace. He appeared confident and versatile in his roles. 
Liz Powers offered an interesting performance as the prostitute, Lucy. Lucy meets Jekyll at his bache­lor party. but it is Hyde who later comes to terror­ize her. Powers played the role of a confusing, 
trapped woman with the right mix of desperation and determi­nation. 
The rest of the characters seemed to be in the show simply for Jekyll/Hyde to show off his acting ability. Among the most notable are his fiancee Emaa Carew (played by Shani Lynn Nielsen). who becomes fright­ened and concerned over her husband's sudden disappear­ances and his obsession with his work and John Utterson (played by David Grimes). Jekyll's friend 
who also fears for the doctor's sudden obsession. 
Overall, this production didn't live up to its expec­tations. It came across as disjointed and unfocused. Aside from a few memorable songs like, "Fai;ade," "Murder, Murder" and "This is the Moment," most of the music was generic and unimpressive. Some of the more romantic songs were so unmemorable they began to jumble together after awhile. 
The musical suffers from a lack of direction. It seems to build momentum in certain sc·enes, only to have it knocked down in the next. Some of the plot points come to seemingly arbitrary and ultimately pointless conclusions. Hyde's obsession with Lucy builds itself up through the first act only to come to 
"The music is fine -but not great. The story is fine, but there's nothing fascinating or new about it. This production of 'Jekyll & Hyde' isn't great, it is merely adequate. " 
a seemingly pointless conclusion near the end of the second. 
Worse, this musical lacks passion. There was nothing in it to capture the audience's attention and carry it through the show. Nothing stands out in particular as being truly stimulat­ing. Although this is a competent musical that is clearly performed and produced by professionals who have mastered their craft, the material with which they are working just isn't new or interesting. 
The show comes from material that 
like this would lend itself to some innovative interpretations for the stage. If it does, it certainly didn't show up here. 
In the end, it is this lack of innova­tion that is the major flaw in the show. Although this version of Jekyll & Hyde is done well, there's nothing that makes this musical stand out. The music is fine -but not great. The story is fine, but there's nothing fascinating or new about it. This pro­duction of Jekyll & Hyde isn't great, it is merely adequate. 
offers a rich field of possible new interpretations that this musical doesn't really explore. It doesn't offer any new ele­ment to the clas­sic story of Jekyll & Hyde -the musical seems irrelevant in this respect. It would seem that a tale 


David Hasselhoff appears on stage dressed as Mr. Hyde from the Broadway production of "Jekyll & Hyde." The musical is based on Robert Louis Stevenson's novella. 
Monday, April 23, 200 l

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
BASEBALL 
Irish on verge of No. 1 ranking after sweeping 'Cats 
By COLIN BOYlAN Sports Writer 
Only weeks removed from an NCAA basketball championship, Irish fans may soon have another No. 1 team to cheer for after the Notre Dame baseball team post­ed a three-game sweep of Villanova this weekend with dominating victories of 7 -1, 15-2 and 8-3. 
The wins improved the team's record to 36-5-1 and, coupled with two weekend losses by top-ranked Stanford, may boost the Irish from their current number two spot in the College Baseball Division I poll to the~No. 1 ranking. As always, Notre Dame head coach Paul Mainieri was humble about the prospect of such an achievement. 
"If it [the top ranking] happens, it will definitely be a great accomplishment," Mainieri said. "But I don't place too much emphasis on mid-season polls." 
After their performance against the Wildcats, the Irish definitely appear to be worthy of such an honor. Their weekend series was characterized by dominant performances on the mound and big hit­ting at the plate. 
Staff ace Aaron Heilman kicked off the opening contest, facing off against Villanova's Tom Kandybowicz. The Wildcats got to Heilman first, when sec­ond baseman Matt Longo knocked an inside fastball high into right field. The hit, which initially seemed like a routine fly ball, got caught up in a strong outward wind and sailed over the right field fence. 
It was only the 10th homerun Heilman had allowed during his entire career and it gave Villanova a 1-0 third inning lead. However, Heilman refused to blame the homerun on the weather. 
"Certainly the wind was blowing, but I just made a bad pitch," Heilman said. 
Regardless, it was the only real scoring 

chance the Wildcats would get for the rest 
of the game. 
Once Heilman retired the side, the Irish hitters took over. Steve Stanley opened up the bottom of the inning with a single. He took second on a Wildcat error and scored on Steve Sollman's next at-bat double to tie the game at one. 
The Irish then blew open the door in the fifth inning. Once again, Stanley started things off with a single. Three straight walks to Brian Stavisky, Kris Billmaier and Paul O'Toole brought him home. Utility man Ben Cooke followed with a double just over the glove of the out­stretched Villanova center fielder. The deep shot cleared the bases and gave Notre Dame a 5-1 lead. The lead would later be extended to 7-1 on RBIs from Alec Porzel and Stavisky 
That was all Heilman would need. Pitching with pinpoint accuracy, he domi­nated Wildcat hitters the rest of the game. Finishing with eight 
strikeouts, he allowed only four hits and no additional runs, going the full seven innings for the victory. The win was Heilman's 10th of the season, and he became only the second pitcher in Notre Dame history to begin a season 10-0. 
"I wasn't really thinking about that at all," Heilman said after the game. "I just try to pitch my best and let the records take care of themselves." 
Irish hitters dominated the second con­test. Stanley started the game by doing his best Reggie Jackson impersonation when the junior center fielder sent pitcher Bob Grzenda's first offering deep over the rightfield fence. The homerun was the first of Stanley's career and set the pace for an outpouring of runs that would fol­low. 
The Irish exploded in the sixth inning, when consecutive singles by O'Toole and Matt Bok brought home Irish baserun­ners. Three batters later. a single by Stanley scored two more runs and Steve Sollman following with an opposite field two run homer. 
Kris Billmaier joined the party in the seventh by pulling a pitch from Adrian Schau into the scoreboard in left field, for his fourth homerun of the year. 
Even pinch hitters Matt Strickroth and John Heintz made significant contribu­tions -slamming rare back-to-back triples to spark a four run eighth inning and give the Irish an insurmountable 15-2 lead. 
Almost lost in all the offensive produc­tion was a masterful performance by starting pitcher Danny Tamayo. Tamayo's eight inning, two run outing was high­lighted by the fact that he only gave up one hit, a homerun to Rob Cafiero, all game. With help from an amazing diving catch by the centerfielder Stanley, Tamayo was able to work through six innings of hitless baseball, before Cafiero's blast ended the streak. 
Nonetheless. Tamayo finished with eight strikeouts and a win that improved his record to 7-1. 
The Irish began their quest for a three game sweep in solid fashion on Sunday. Stavisky gave starting pitcher J.P. Gagne a 1-0 lead in the first inning when he knocked in Stanley with an RBI single. 

But the score remained close for the 
majority of the game. The Wildcats 
threatened to take the lead when they 
loaded the bases with only one out in the sixth inning. Pitching with a tight 3-1 lead, Gagne induced Villanova's batters to ground into a forceout at home and a inning ending fly ball, respectively. 

Once again, the bottom of the sixth inning was kind to the Irish. when an error by the second baseman Longo opened the door for four unearned runs. The rally was capped by a three run Porzel homer. 
After seven innings of gritty pitching, Gagne gave way to Matt Buchmeier and Matt Laird to close out the game and earn an 8-3 victory. The win improved his sea­son record to 4-2. More importantly, it marked the 14th consecutive Irish victory, their longest winning streak in nearly eight years. 
While Mainieri was pleased with the performance of his "aces" Heilman and Tamayo, he was especially impressed by Gagne's performance. 
"J.P. Gagne pitches courageously every time he goes out there and he's so impor­tant to our success this year." said Mainieri. 
Indeed, this weekend's series show­cased the talents of several unsung heroes on the Irish squad. These include catcher O'Toole, who threw out all three Villanova runners who attempted a steal in the third game, and Stanley who racked up six hits and scored eight runs in the series. 
"Steve Stanley has been tremendous for three years. There's no way we could even think about being No. 1 without him." said Mainieri. 
Indeed, the only fact that could the atti­tude around the Irish clubhouse was the injury suffered by third baseman Andrew Bushey in the first game. Bushey injured his shoulder diving for a ground ball and did not return for the remainder of the series. His current status is day to day. 
Meanwhile, as the Irish continue to 
• climb to their best record ever, they will likely be anchored by what some call the best 1-2 pitching combination in college baseball in Heilman and Tamayo. 
When asked if he thought any tandem in the nation could compare, Heilman responded, "I think you'd be hard pressed to find one. but we're very confident in our entire pitching staff and our team as a whole." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. ar the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds muse be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR SALE  Oakhill Condo ­4 bdr/3 bath 1/2 mile from campus fireplace, deck, pool access  
$99,000/best offer  
Car For Sale!!  call Tim@ 612-802-0285  

1995 Ford Aspire 
$2,000 perfect condition! Call Heather @ 243-0125 
FOR RENT 

'98 Honda Prelude 2 dr. sports coupe. Green/ivory. 42k miles. EXECUTIVE SUITE: One bedroom Excellent condition. One owner. furnished executive suite -cable & New tires. Loaded. Sunroof. ABS. local phone, housekeeping included Oak Hill Condo for rent. 2 bdrm, 2 bath. Available June 1. 1 •765-362· 1040. Ask for John 
An adorable 1.5 bdrm. House w/ garage by St. PatrickOspark. 702· 436-1594. 
Rent for fall semester 4 bedrooms, 2 full baths, washer&dryer, basement w/ hot tub, new fumance, security system. Call 277-0636 3-6 BDRM HOMES $180 per person Furn. Summer/Fall 272-6306 
ROOMS FOR'GRAD WEEKEND 
Wild Irish Rose Inn 
3mi north of campus 
*brkfst buffet ea AM 
*clean, comfortable & afford­
able 

(2190 277-4303 or 
'!1.'l:f:li. wildiri:ltllll!Hl !;QlD  
Need one ticket to graduation. Price  Call Nick 4-4716 if interested.  
3 bdrm duplex  ne~tiable. Call 4-3760  
501/503 Eddy St.  yeah, women's bathroom in fitz- 
Appliances, W/D 1 mile from campus  PERSONALS  patrick!  
273-8332 or 250-7080  Cassie and Nell: KICK SOME  
Indiana Catholic couple with huge  BUTT TODAY! Your project will  

Graduating seniors: LADIES: Take a study break and Looking to sell your apartment furni-meet guys, make fun of them, or lure (beds, desks, couches, etc)? both with the new ThatGuy! Game. ND juniors looking to buy. Call Nick As seen in In Style, Glamour & at 4-4716 if interested. Entertainment Weekly. Endless 
Fun! $9.99 at 

Retired ND staffer & spouse wish to '!J.w:J!..!ha!i;iu~garne,i::;Qrn apt. for summer. Reliable, non­smokers, no pets, have family in Graduating Seniors: Looking to sell area. 135 Lakeview dr., Mulberry FL your apartment furniture (beds, 33860 (863) 425-4404 or call our desks, couches, etc?) ND juniors daughter locally at 256-2335. looking to buy. 
Sp,iler. Great car. Call 1-4368 @ $60/night (footbalVgraduation weekdays or 277-4605 after 5 pm. weekend rates higher). (219) 271-Newly remodeled 5 bedroom house Parked in Stepan Center lot. 6808 or e-mail: www.belleterre-available to rent for tall semester. 2 
suite@aol.com. ND Alum full baths, washer & dryer, huge rec WOODBRIDGE CONDO owned/managed. Near ND. room, security system. Call now to 18199 Stoneridge -Apt F Looking to share/sublet summer see 277-0636 1239 sq. ft. $84,300, 3 bedrooms, 1 apartment. Will be performing 
1/2 baths, dining room, living room, internship in South Bend May 13 1 br sublet 5/15-8115, Downers hearts wishing to adopt a child. We rock Memorial's world like never kitchen. Condo fee $165 per month. through August 18. Non-smoker. Grove, IL, w/d, dw, ale, great com-WANTED can provide your baby with lots of before! You can design my ad cam-The Hickey Group-Karen castelluc-plex, room for 2 people, love and a secure, stable life. paign any time. cio 67 4· 1682 (419) 352-4136 $890/mo+util Rachel 312-498-6579 Hoping to house sit or rent your Reasonable expenses will be paid. 
(timgoodenow@yahoO.com) home, furnished/unfurnished, until amber, mary, jen, nicole, way to Europe $199 one way. CHICAGO APT. AVAILABLE FOR summer 2002. Married couple, For more info, please call Rebecca rock in bookstore. Mexico/Carribbean or Central Lake living bear Bremen MAY THROUGH AUGUST IN LIN· early 40s , professional + student, re Larry and Cathy: toll-free 1-866· so the playgirls didn't play so America $250 round trip plus tax. most pets okay COLN PARK LOCATION. CLOSE no kids. 30-ADOPT. well,we could still draw a crowd. Other wor1d wide destinations new 3 bedroom TOEL Call 616.697.5307 or 270.659.0096 cheap. If you can beat these prices air, garage, disposal, dishwaher 1 or 2 BEDROOMS Thanks to Dillon 128 for a great Any got a nice story and pix in exchange start your own airline. Book tickets $950/month OWN BATHROOM Summer daytime sitter for three Excuse '01 , regardless of mishaps. for that shirt. not too bad. on line www.airtech.com or toll free page 219-935-7845 $780/mo. girts ages 12 to 5. 
(877)AIRTECH or call 546--4430 1·312-443-6062 JAIME 273-3010 my khakis will never come clean let's go capitals!! 
.. 
page 15

Monday, April 23, 2001 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



.. 


ongra -11J1 
Join us in celebrating tonight at 7:30p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart as these 37 men and women-receive the Sacramento/ Con/ir,;,_ation.­
The Candidates & their Sponsors 
Saral1 Cl-1ristine Afflecl~-Graves 
Adam Urra 

Leah Isabella Baxter 
Danie/ Kinney 

Annamarie Elizabeth Bindenagel 
Brian Cruz 

Benjamin Broussard 
Jon Fean 
Anne Cienian 
Matt Sumn1ey 

Christine Peregrine Closz 
Morgan Russell Rachel We;/er, Kate Suddes 
Lindsey-Michala Bridget Collins 
Sandy Long 

Angela ~1arie DeBruno 
Jeff Busick 

Susannah Teresa Doyle 
]0/111 McKiernan 

Dallas °I-Iope Dyer 
Wyatt Maxwell 

Christine Grace Efta 
Megan Sweeney, Marie Cable 
Bridget Jane Elliott 
" 
Andreu) Seng 
Nicholas Filippi 

Anna-Marie F;/ippi 
Preston Goodyear 
Anne Hazfinger 

Aubrey Thon1as Aquinas Guezuraga 
Sallie Baumgartner, Patricia Schiro 
I<ebecca Habenicht 
Amy Sea,-non 

Patricia Anne Hinojosa 
Daniella Zsupan 

Jeffrey Augustine Hurd 
Greg Haake 
0 

a -JlCO)n s 
Jared Paul Jodrey 
Tony Carney 
Daniel Arthur McCabe 
Matthew Brummer 
Genevieve Camille ~1cCann 
Maureen Bresnahan 
Christopher Michael ~1cGee 
Jodi Nally 
Monica Teresa Mendoza 
Lane Rice 
Jo Angelico Mil~als-Adachi 
Colin Nolan 
Son Patric]~ Nguyen 
Katie Smith, Kari Kileen 
Elizabeth Katherine Nolte 
Matt Feuclzt 
~1ichael Francis Pedl1irnev Matthew Yitng " 
Jennifer ]\largaret Prins 
Orlando Castillo 
Laura Reardon 
Kristin Shaner 
Melissa Anne Isabella Reilly Ann Weber . 
Stephen Alphonsus Robey 
Chuck La,-nphier 
Monica Tl1eresa Sn1ith 
Amy Sea1non 
Monica Theresa Stone 
Erin Hannon 
Aaron Anthony Tn11ley 
Peggy Trulley Backe 
Jennifer Francis Utz 
Cai/in Mani 
Mary Teresa Virnich 
Elizabeth Ayala 
Philip Wittliff 
Kevin Haley 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 
Monday, April 23, 2001 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
WNBA DRAFT 

Center Riley chosen 5th overall in WNBA Draft 

By TIM CASEY 
Senior Staff Writer 
Add another footnote to this campus' strange sports year. 
More Notre Dame players were selected in the first three rounds of the WNBA draft than 
the  NFL  
draft.  
0  n  

Friday, Ruth Riley was select­ed fifth overall by the Miami Sol, while the Indiana Fever drafted fellow All-American Niele Ivey in the second round (19th overall). 
Kelley Siemon. who was picked in the third round by the Los Angeles Sparks with the 48th overall selection. refused to discuss her basket­ball future on Sunday. 
Meanwhile, her college team­mates begin training camp for their professional squads in early May. 
"[Miami Heat head coach Pat] Riley walked into the room the other day and said if I didn't take Ruth Riley, I was done," Sol head coach/general manager Ron Rothstein joked during ESPN2's live draft tele­cast. "I had to take her. It was as simple as that." 
Lauren Jackson, a 6-foot-5 forward from Australia, was the first pick of the draft. Georgia's point guard Kelly Miller, Tennessee forward Tamika Catchings and Southwest Missouri State guard Jackie Stiles were all 


selected before Hiley. 
"We had [Riley] rated a little bit higher [than fifth]." Rothstein said. "She's proven that she can perform at a very, very high level under pres­sure." 
Riley will compete with 30­year old Marlies Askamp for playing time. Askamp, a 6-foot­5 center from Germany, aver­aged 7.8 points and 7 .2 rebounds for the Sol in 2000. In its inaugural season a year ago, Miami finished 13-19 and failed to qualify for the play­offs. 
"I'm looking forward to whatever role they need me to play down there," Riley said. "I just want to contribute in any way that I can." 
Ivey also enters a favorable situation. Her father's brother and several other relatives live in Indianapolis and St. Louis, Ivey's hometown, is less than five hours away. 
And Rita Williams, the Fever's starter last season, is the only established profes­sional point guard on the ros­ter. 
"A lot of franchises have their set point guards," Ivey said. "I wanted to go to an environment where I can play and do some things. It worked out well." 
She will be reunited in Indiana with former Irish teammate Katryna Gaither. Ivey and Gaither played togeth­er for a few weeks during Ivey's freshman season. In November of 1996, Ivey tore the ACL in her right knee and missed the remainder of the year. 
Four months later, the then• senior Gaither led Notre Dame to its first Final Four berth. 
"She's probably geeked that I'll be her point guard again," Ivey said. "It'll be fun." 
In the first round, the Fever drafted Catchings and used their 14th pick to select Connecticut center Kelly Schumacher. The trio of new­comers will be joined by a first­year head coach. Nell Fortner, who coached the United States women to an Olympic gold medal in September, takes over the duties. Fortner served as an ESPN analyst during the lrish's 2001 national champi­onship run. 
"She's coached so many 
great  players,"  Ivey  said.  
"There's  a  lot  of benefits  
there."  

For maybe the first time, Irish fans can be interested in the WNBA. 
Riley and lvey's new teams meet on June 5 and August 10 in Miami. and July 2 8 in Indiana. Coquese Washington, an Irish assistant coach, is also a member of the defending WNBA champion Houston Comets. 
Riley and ·washington will compete against each other twice in the next month in exhibition games. 
On May 12, the squads play in Houston then a week later in Miami. The lone regular sea­son meeting will be on July 20 in Miami. 
The Comets travel to Indiana on May 31 and host the Fever on July 6. 
"Usually I'm asking her for help," Ivey said. "Now she can't help me. She has the best scouting report on me." 


The Faces Of Holy CroSS: .· · . 
) 1 

New Candidates at Moreau Seminary 
Holy Cross: The Next Generation 
ANSWER ~ THECALL ~ 
www.nd.edu/~vocation 
ERNESTO LACAYO/The Observer Notre Dame center Ruth Riley goes up for a shot in a game against Boston College earlier this season. 

m1a&MOXX 
HAIR STUDIO 
University Park Mall 
219.277.4427 
Monday, April 23, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Maryland's Miller expected to sign with Notre Dame 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Senior Staff Writer 
Now that Troy Murphy's gone, Irish men's basketball coach Mike Brey is concentrating on rounding out the rest of his 2001:02 squad. 
The Irish have 
three scholarships still available for next season follow­ing Murphy's depar­ture. 
Sophomore reserve Ivan Kartelo previously announced his 


plans to transfer · Miller and recruit Jemere Hendrix will not be attending Notre Dame due to academic reasons. 
"You think about the number of guys just on our roster now, there's an opportunity to play," Brey said. "They [the players] see more potential min­utes. There's not many of them." 
Danny Miller, who has received a release from his scholarship at Maryland, may soon fill one slot on the Irish roster. Miller, a 6-foot-8 small forward, played the role of the sixth 
man on this year's Final Four Terrapins team. 
According to ESPN.com, Notre Dame is Miller's new destination. His brother Greg played for Brey at Delaware. 
Miller, a junior who averaged 4.8 points and 2.6 rebounds this season, will have to sit out next year due to NCAA transfer regulations. 
Brey can not comment on whether Miller will wind up at Notre Dame until Miller makes an announcement. 
He is digging through the pool of potential transfers and high school seniors, however, since only 10 schol­arship players are on the roster for next year. 
"Now it's more transfer pool," Brey said. "There are a few high school kids that have emerged that maybe have committed to one place, but the coach left. So we·re actively digging at adding to our roster." 
The current group of players coming back includes veteran forwards Ryan Humphrey and Harold Swanagan and guards David Graves and Matt Carroll. 
The loss of Murphy, a two-time first team All-American, will be a signifi­cant blow, but the core group of play­ers plans to pick up the slack in Murphy's absence. 
"There's a lot of excitement. new 
leaders, new roles -everything will 
change," said Graves, who will be a 
senior. "Coach will be looking to the 
seniors to provide a big boost and we'll 
give that. With the addition of Matt 
[Carroll], he's played a lot of minutes. 
He's a veteran in our eyes." 
Reserves Torrian Jones, Jere 
Macura, Chris Markwood, Tom 
Timmermans and walk-on Charles 
Thomas return to the mix, joined by 
recruits Chris Thomas at point guard 
and Jordan Cornette at forward. 
Despite the optimism over the return­
ing players, Brey would still like to use 
all his scholarships. 
"Right now we might fill them with 
prospects," Brey said. 
Leaving the· Irish is Kartelo, a 6-11 
center from Croatia. Kartelo saw his 
minutes drop drastically after Brey 
replaced Matt Doherty as head coach ·this season. 
After playing 13 minutes per game as 
a freshman, he played in just 16 games 
this year, averaging 5.6 minutes per 
game. 

In recent weeks, Kartelo has visited 
both Purdue and Northwestern. 
Rumors that he might wind up playing 
for Doherty at North Carolina, howev­
er, are unfounded. 

''I'm still thinking," Kartelo said. "It's 
the official awarded the point to Miami, sparking a five­minute shouting match between coaches, players, and officials at center court. 
"My coach was livid, my assistant coach was livid," Green said. "I just stayed out of it because I needed to con­centrate." 
The controversy even spilled into the crowd, where Notre Dame's Kimberly Guy got into an argument with a nearby Miami fan. 
"I think Lindsey got robbed," Guy said. "You can quote me on that. I think it was a horri­ble, horrible call." 
"She won the point twice and we didn't get it," Louderback said. "It proved to be a crucial call. Bennacer rallied back to win the game and the set. Had Green won, the Irish would have clinched the Big East title. 
With Green and Nina Vaughan battling through a third set, Varnum was the best opportunity to seal an 

Irish victory. The Irish had already won the doubles point and two of three singles matches to take a 3-1 lead in the final. Varnum, who lost the first set 2-6. bounced back to take the second set 6-1. 
She actually trailed 5-4 in the third set before winning three straight games to take the match. 
"It was nerve-racking at some points," she said. "I just had to keep concentrated on my match." 
"Becky stepped up and played really well," Louderback said. "She really came through at the end." 
The Irish started the match solidly by winning two doubles_ matches. At No. 1 doubles, Michelle Dasso and Varnum destroyed Katia Bogomolova and Alanna Broderick 8-1. At one point, when Dasso moved to the net to return a shot, Broderick ducked and headed for the side of the court. 
"Our No. 1 doubles were just unbelievable," Louderback 

between Northwestern and Purdue." 
Kartelo hopes to make his decision by the end of the semester, hoping to wind up with a team where he can play a major role. 
"I'm kind of nervous because it's about my future," Kartelo said. ''I'm excited and nervous." 
Macura, a 6-9 sophomore forward who is from the same hometown as Kartelo, has also been rumored to be considering a transfer. Macura hasn't made up his mind, but sees Notre Dame in his future. 
"I'm thinking about staying much more," Macura said. "I like this place too much [to transfer]." 
Macura saw his minutes drop nearly in half this year from 14.4 to 7. 7, per­haps due to troubles adjusting to the new style of play beneath Brey. Macura was not on campus last sum­mer to work out with the Irish, instead playing with the Croatian National Team. 
"I had a rough season," Macura said. 
Yet he'd like to give it another shot here at Notre Dame, with a final deci­sion likely to come in the next couple days. 
"There is not any problem between me and Coach," Macura said. "I like him very much and respect him." 
said. "They lost their first game and then won eight straight." 
Meanwhile, at No. 3 doubles. Vaughan and Green won 8-6 to clinch the doubles point, putting the Irish up 2-1. 
But when the singles match­es started, the Irish appeared to be in trouble. At one point. the Irish were trailing their opponents in five of the six matches. 
Then the seniors took over. 

Guy won her match 6-3, 6-3, while Dasso -who was voted the tournament's most out­standing player for the second straight year -won 6-3, 6-·2. 
"It was nice that our first two singles wins were by our two seniors," Louderback said. 
But when Marcy Horn beat Caylan Leslie 6-4, 6-2 and the three remaining singles matches entered a third set, the Hurricanes were on the verge of repeating last year's shocking upset. 
In fact, when Varnum ­who set Notre Dame's single season doubles record Saturday afternoon against Virginia Tech -won her match, Vaughan was only up 6-5 and Green was trailing 2­3. 
Notre Dame defeated Virginia Tech in Saturday's semi-finals 4-0 to earn the right to play Miami in the finals. 
Their entire match took less than two hours. By contrast, Sunday's dual with Miami 
took about three and  a  half  
hours.  
Louderback  - who  was  

named the Big East Coach of the Year for the fourth time in five years -was pleased by his team's competitiveness throughout the tournament. 
"We played alright, but we competed real well," he said. 
After their strong showing against Miami. the Irish are anxious for the NCAA Tournament, which begins May 12. 
"Last year. getting to the Sweet 16 was great," said Dasso. "This year, I think we can go so much further. I'm putting my money on this year. It's definitely going to be the most exciting." 
Women 
continued from page 24 
smarter plays." Then the controversy start­ed. With Green leading the sec­
ond set 5-4, Bennacer returned a shot after it appeared to bounce twice. Green immediately pointed out that the ball double­bounced, but returned the shot anyway. Bennacer appealed the decision, claim­ing Green distracted her, and 


J J 
page 18 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, April 23, 200 I 
ALU~NI AWARtNtSS Wt[K IS nrRt 
The Notre Dame Alumni Association and the Student Alumni l!elations firoup will sponsor the following events: 
• Alumni Association Open House 
Tuesday, April 23 from lla.m. to 2 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune Student Center. This event will be open to all students but is geared towards graduating students. Come and learn about the benefits of your free Alumni Association membership and involvement in your local alumni club. Door prizes include alumni apparel, alumni watch, and a pair of football tickets. Free t-shirts ·for the first 400 arrivals. 
• Lunch with Alumni 
Friday, April 26 from 11:45 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. in South Dining Hall. Join over 200 alumni club leaders for lunch in South Dining Hall. You'll find that they're not just about plaid pants. 
• Young Alumni Social 
Friday, April 26 from 9:30 p.m. to 12:00 a.m. in Alumni-Senior Club. This event is open to all undergraduate and graduate students who are over 21. Hosted by young alumni, this social is a great opportunity to network with alumni of all ages from across· the country. Free pizza will be provided. 
• Student Alumni Picnic 
Saturday, April 28 from 11:00 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. in DeBartolo Quad. Join over two 
hundred and fifty alumni club representatives at an outdoor picnic prior to the Blue-Gold 
Game. ~t\lso; a flag football game will be played by former Notre Dame football players 
in Notre Dame Stadium prior to the Blue-Gold Game. The Picnic is free of charge for 
non-meal card holders. Just bring your student ID.***In case of rain, lunch will be served in both dining halls. Sponsored by University Food Services and the Notre Dame Alumni Association. 

NOTRE DAME 

Student AlumnillEIA]lONS GR< >lll' 
' 

Monday, April 23, 2001 page 19
The Observer . SPORTS 

There's something about Murphy 
Even at a smaller school like Notre Dame, you don't usually get to know everyone that lives in your dorm. 
So it has been that in the course of living in the same dorm as two-time All­American and now NBA draft prospect, Troy Murphy for the last two years, we've never said much more than a "What's up?" to each other in passing. 
With one year of eligibility left, Murphy has decided to move on from the cubicle sized rooms of dorm life and onto basketball's greatest stage. 
Like every other Notre Dame kid, he faces the prospects of leaving the shadow of the Dome, just a year earlier than most, and probably with a little bit of 


hesitation. 

'This year is fun," Murphy said at a Friday teleconference. "It's been fun to hang out with these guys. I don't think I'll have the relationship I have with my teammates next year that I have with my teammates this year, but what can you do?" 
What Murphy did do while he was at Notre Dame was draw a lot of attention from the hoops world. 
He did that by scoring 2,011 points, claiming 924 rebounds, winning Big East Rookie of the Year as a freshman, Big East Player of the Year as both a sophomore and junior and being named a first team All-American as both a sophomore and junior. 
He was probably the single biggest factor in Notre Dame men's basketball going from a sub-.500 program his freshman year to NIT finalists his sopho­more year to NCAA second rounders his junior year. 
There have been three differ­ent coaches in those three years. but one go-to-guy. 
And now, the most recent men's basketball banner hang­ing from the rafters in the JACC doesn't date from when we were all still in elementary school and lugging G.I. Joe lunchboxes in our backpacks. 
Instead, it's a 2001 Big East West Division title banner (man, that's a mouthful), and many members of that championship team, and especially their leader, have come a long way in earning their basketball degrees. 
I say "a long way" because like anyone else who has the advan­tage of staring down a computer screen rather than an opposing forward. it's easy to say Murphy needs to work on defense, quick­ness and, like most other college (or high school) players, the con­ditioning necessary for a long NBA season. 
But Irish head coach Mike Brey emphasized just how ready his star player is for the next level. 
"I think the bottom line is his stock is very high, and his stock is getting higher," Brey said at the Friday teleconference. "Some of the rule changes, especially with the zone defense corning in, 

ist 5()() fans Rece?Ve a 
Ferinant 
....,,, 
1& eenb Noli nots,
Elvis \A.Jill Be ir\ 
POpOOrn, and Pop
-the B>uildir\e::,!H 

~ ~-liD DBDli liiDll¦liS 11111 &ul:9 Pwwal llacelve a •1::ta~lc: 





Come Dressed in '50's & '60's Clothing to Win Prizes 
Students Rlwa s Free!! 
ATTENTION BUSINESS 
MAJORS!!  
You,  too,  Incoming Sophomores!  
IT'S  NOT  TOO  LATE  TO  ADD  
THE  FOLLOWING  COURSES:  

ETHICS COURSES FOR FALL 2001 
Each I-credit, five-week long course, is available to sophomores, juniors, and seniors, business and non-business majors are welcome to enroll. 
Introduction to Business Ethics: BA 241 

This five-week course is designed to give the student an introduction to the central questions 
and fundamental character of ethics and morality. It focuses on a discussion of ethical theories that can help guide the student's problem solving in business situations. 
(01) 
MWF 10:40-11:30 (8/29 through 9/26) (K. Mack) 

(02) 
TTH 2:00-3:15 (8/28 through 9/25) (K. Mack) 


Topics in Business Ethics: BA 341 

In this five-week course, the student will use cases to analyze ethical problems in the business disciplines including accounting, management, marketing, finance, and MIS. 
(01) 
MWF 10:40-11:30 (10/1 through 11/5) (K. Mack) 

(02) 
MWF 12:50-l :40 (10/1 through 11/5) (K. Piskadlo) BA 341M (01) TTH 2:00-3: 15 (P. Murphy) MARK majors only (9/27 through 11/1) 


Business Ethics Field Project: BA 441 This five-week course is designed to give the student practical experience in a social service setting. The course meets as a class four times with the majority of the students' time spent in the volunteer setting. This exciting course is a great way to integrate community service into your academic curriculum. 
(01) 
MW 10:40-11:30 (J. McManus) (11/9 through 12/10) 

(02) 
MW 12:50-1:40 (J. McManus) (11/9 through 12/10) 

(03) 
TTH 2:00-3:15 (J. McManus) (11/6 through 12/6) 


Each one-hour credit course will meet twice a week for 75 minutes for 5 weeks. 
-

is coming in at a time when a skilled guy. which he certainly is, and a guy that has a great feel for the game increases his worth. 
" ... Even though he has a year of eligibility, I don't think he should be lumped in with this phenomenon [of high schoolers and college freshman and sopho­mores entering the draft] that we are talking about the last couple weeks, because he has a great track record the last three years. He is ready to do it." 
Brey also said that he thinks the pre-draft workouts, with their focus on skills aspects of the game, will make Murphy even more popular with NBA teams. 
Yes, the Murphy era of Notre Dame basketball has come to a close. For a lot of Irish fans, this chapter probably ends a year and another NCAA tournament too early. 
But after walking into a pro­gram as down as a South Bend winter day, he walks out with it looking more like spring, a lot of talented teammates, and friends, ready to keep pushing Notre Dame hoops forward. 
As for Murphy. this next step has been his goal since he was little. Talking about next year, he said: "I think it will be work. It will be a lot of work. But I think I'm ready for that. I'm ready to do that kind of thing, to play bas­ketball. That's all I could do. I like to play basketball a lot." 
Hopefully that love will trans­late into more success at the next level for one of Notre Dame's all-time best. 
Earlier in the teleconference, Murphy said: "I can remember being in third grade and playing on a little hoop in the basement, and ever since then, I've always watched ... basketball and watched NBA games ... and it's always been something that I would like to do." 
So. from all of us who lived in that same cramped dorm with you or shared that same third grade dream but still haven't gotten very far past the Nerf hoop: 
Good luck next year, Murph. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

NCAA FOOTBALL 
Irish QB Guglielmi named to Hall of Fame 
Associated Press 
Former University of Notre 
Dame All-America quarterback 
Ralph Guglielmi is one of 15 for­
mer college football greats and 
three former coaches named to 
the National Football 
Foundation's College Football 
Hall of Fame. 
The announcement was made 
in New York City by NFF 
Chairman Jon F. Hanson and 
Honors Court Chairman Gene 
Corrigan. 
Guglielmi will be inducted in December at the Foundation's 44th annual banquet at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel in New York -then he'll be enshrined in ceremonies in August 2002 in South Bend at the College Football Hall of Fame. 
Selected in addition to Guglielmi were USC halfback Jon Arnett, Georgia placekicker Kevin Butler, Michigan receiver Anthony Carter. Navy end Dick Duden, Syracuse defensive tack­le Tim Green, Ohio State tackle John Hicks. Oklahoma tight end Keith Jackson, Clemson defen­sive back Terry Kinard, Mississippi State linebacker 
D.D. Lewis, North Carolina run­ning back Donald McCauley, Kansas and Pennsylvania tackle John Outland, Penn State line­man Glenn Ressler, Michigan State defensive back Brad Van Pelt and BYU quarterback Steve Young -along with coaches Barry Switzer from Oklahoma, Grant Teaff from McMurry, San Angelo State and Baylor and Bill Yeoman from Houston. 
Guglielmi becomes the 39th former Notre Dame player to be selected for the Hall of Fame (there also are five former Notre Dame head coaches enshrined). He becomes the seventh former Irish quarterback to earn that honor -following Frank Carideo, Harry Stuhldreher, Heisman Trophy winners John Lujack, Angelo Bertelli and Paul Hornung and most recently Bob Williams in 1988. 
The 6-0, 180-pound Guglielirni was a three-year starter for the Irish at quarter­back from 1952 through '54. He earned unanimous All-America honors as a senior in '54 after completing 68 of 127 passes for 1,160 yards and six touchdowns -ranking fourth nationally in passing yards. He finished fourth in voting for the Heisman Trophy as a senior in '54. In his three seasons as a starter, the Irish finished 7 -2-1 in '52 (third in final Associated Press poll). 9-0-1 in '53 (second) and 9-1 in '54 (fourth). 
He remains 10th on the Notre Dame career passing chart based on 209 career comple­tions on 436 attempts (both Notre Dame records at the time) for 3,117 yards (breaking Bertelli's Notre Dame career mark for passing yards) and 18 TDs. He also rushed 187 times for 200 yards and 12 TDs; kicked five PATs; intercepted 10 passes returned for 98 yards and one TD (he led the team in interceptions with five each in '53 and '54); recovered two fumbles and returned two kick­offs for 15 yards. 
The Columbus, Ohio, product remains tied with Rick Mirer for the Notre Dame record for most consecutive games completing a pass with 34, including his last four games in 1951 and all 10 each year in 1952-54. He was honored with the Walter Camp Memorial Trophy by the Washington (D.C.) Touchdown Club as the nation's top back in 1954. • 
Guglielmi earned MVP honors in the 1955 College All-Star Game and also played in the East-West Shrine Game. 
He was a first-round National Football League draft pick (third pick overall) of the \'Vashington Redskins in 1955, moved on to play with St. Louis in 1961, the New York Giants in 1962 and with Philadelphia in 1963. 


Monday, April 23, 2001 

page 20 The Observer . BIG EAST TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS 
Foreign tennis players find home at Notre Dame 


By KATIE HUGHES 
Sports Writer 
CORAL GABLES, Fla. 
On the way back to their hotel after a day of practice during the Big East tour­nament, Javier Taborga, Luis Haddock­Morales and men's tennis head coach Bobby Bayliss argued over which radio station they should listen to. 
"Come on. coach, you've gotta know this song," Javier said as a pop station came on. 
"You don't know what good music is. This -this is good music," laughed Bayliss as an oldies station started to play an old Beatles song. 
Bayliss and Taborga know each other pretty well. But they almost didn't, because Bayliss, as a rule, does not recruit internationally 
Taborga, a junior who is originally from La Paz, Bolivia, was the top ranked player in Bolivia when he was 10,12,14 and 18. He first became interested in Notre Dame during his junior year of high school, through a family friend who was an undergraduate in the 80s and encouraged him to consider the school. 
He wrote to Bayliss, asking if he would consider having him on the team. Bayliss sent him a polite "thanks for the interest, but no 

Bayliss of his abilities. After making another visit to the campus -officially this time -and telling his parents that he didn't want to go anywhere else, Taborga signed to play at Notre Dame on September 15, the first day he was offi­cially allowed to. 
Luis Haddock-Morales, a freshman from Caguas. Puerto Rico, was the top recruit for the Irish last year. He was ranked seventh among 18 and under boys in the USTA rankings and was well known to Bayliss because he had played in all of the Junior National Tournaments in the United States. 
Also wooed by Georgia, Alabama, and William and Mary, Haddock-Morales stayed in Knott Hall with Taborga -who. ironically, he had lost to in the Davis Cup the year before -during his official visit. 
Taborga, who won the Olen Parks award last year, given to the Notre Dame men's tennis player with the best person­ality, gave Luis some advice during his visit. 
"Go to a school like UCLA, and you'll get great academics, and great tennis," Taborga told Haddock-Morales, "but you'll walk into your classes and no one's going to know you. Here, you develop friendships, and students that don't even know you come to watch you play because they feel related to the program." 
Luis said that he and 



thanks" letter his family liked the
"Going to North Quad in the
back. He wasn't Catholic aspect of 
summer, everything was green.
interested. Notre Dame, but that "When you and everything was welcoming. their influence on his 
look at the top I felt, and my parents felt. that college decision was 
25 [ranked ten­much like their influ­
the community would be nice.,,
nis programs]. ence on his tennis 
we are one of the career alwaysfew that does not Javier Taborga encouraging, never recruit interna­pushing.
men's tennis player
tionally," said 
Bayliss. "A lot of 
schools have 


gone international to bolster the level of play, sometimes at the expense of what's 
best for the schools and the people they 
recruit." 
Bayliss has maintained a policy of recruiting only players he can get to know, and that he knows will fit into the team. 
"If I get to know someone that is for­eign, I've made a decision that I won't be prejudiced against them," said Bayliss, "but there's no way I'm going to know anything about them." 
Michigan State, Texas. Kentucky, Tulsa, Louisiana, Pepperdine and Lafayette were all interested in Taborga at the time, offering Taborga significant scholarships without having even seen him play. While making official visits to Michigan State and Kentucky, he and his parents came to see Notre Dame unofficially. 
"Going to North Quad in the summer, everything was green, and everything was welcoming," said Taborga of his first visit to the campus. "I felt, and my parents felt, that the community would be nice." 
During his visit, Taborga played a pick­up match against senior Matt Horsley. 
He got killed in the match, which Bayliss could not even watch because of NCAA regulations. But Bayliss was inter­ested. 
Coach Bayliss finally got to see Javier play in Junior National tournaments that year. 
Taborga beat players ranked in the top 300 in the world, finally convincing "I though_t [Notre 
Dame] had a good 

_ team, and a good coach, and the opportunities here made this my first choice," said Haddock­Morales, who is a pre-med major. "One of my goals is to work hard in school here and to use all the opportunities I have." 
"I think Luis has the potential to be an All-American," said Bayliss. 
Representing the third continent and fourth language among the top six Irish tennis players, freshman Matt Scott sparked Bayliss's interest through a for­mer college teammate of Irish assistant coach Billy Pate who had played against Scott. 
Scott, originally from Toronto, lived in Paris during high school. He was ranked in the top 20 junior tennis players in France, and was one of the top 250 juniors in the world. 
"I came because of the combination of the strong academics and strong athlet­ics," said Scott. who also considered Princeton. "It was the whole Notre Dame experience. I really didn't know a lot about the school -most of my knowledge of the school was from watching Rudy. Living in France, they're not in touch with a lot of American culture," said Scott. 
Though the rules of tennis are the same everywhere, Scott, Taborga and Haddock-Morales all experienced some culture shock beyond the white-and­green of the tennis court during their first few months here. There were new rules to learn. 
"I would go up to girls and say 'Hi, I'm Javvy,' and give them a kiss on the cheek, because that is what we did in Bolivia, and they would back away," said Taborga. 
"Javier would come to practice every day, and there were 20 guys on the team and he could want to go up to every one of them and shake their hand," said Bayliss. 
Matt Scott, who went to high school in Paris, was in awe of a friend's Jerry Springer videos, incredulous at parietals, and questioning of the prevailing conserv­ative Notre Dame attitudes towards sex, abortion, and the death penalty. 
"It just took some time to adjust," said Scott, who came from a high school where 20 different countries were repre­sented. "You're bound to run into differ­ent opinions at college. It's just important to keep an open mind." 
All three were at the top of their class in high school, but also found that culture and education are not independent of one another. 
Taborga, who attended the German school in Bolivia, had never taken a multi-pie-choice test. He had taken years of English classes, but reading a few theolo­gy or FYC chapters could take hours. 
"German education is very different from American education. One thing that surprised me, though, was that teachers here are a lot more personal than I thought," said Taborga. "They're very open and understanding." 
After the challenge of adjusting to a new culture, maintaining ties with their lives before Notre Dame has become a priority in the lives of these student-ath­letes. 
"I like hanging out a lot with my team­mates, going to parties with them," said Taborga. "But at the same time, if there's a Latin party I don't miss that for any­thing. The way we go out and socialize is a lot different, and that's why we try to get together at least once a month to remember how it is down there. Here it is good, too, and I enjoy it, but the music is different. You can dance closer to salsa." 
If only there were some good salsa radio stations in South Bend. 

serves consistently in doubles, erupting in bursts of rage. drating and fatiguing in the place-to-Miami trophy in the particularly at No. 2 and 3, and Not content to take three sets oppressive mid-afternoon last six years. Whether or not
Men 

that hurts us." to beat Miami's Hoffman at No. humidity. Taborga lost 6-3, 3-6, they will get to host an NCM 
continued from page 24 Singles action came to a dra­4 singles, Talarico beat him 6-4-6. but not before a showing regional now depends on matic and disappointing con­3, 6-3, making the score 3-2. of Javy-style tenacity. where they end up in the rank­clusion, but began with a few "Aaron Talarico played great "Javier did a good job of ral­ings.
Smid, 8-6. Miami's Michael 

authoritative victories. Daly today," said Bayliss. "And Matt lying today. In the third set, he "We're just going to work
Lang and Jose Lieberman 

tied the match 1-1. defeating Daly was in control of his will normally not get broken hard for the next two weeks for 
decided the doubles point, 

Miami's Golub 6-1, 6-4 quickly match." three times like he did. He NCAA's," said Talarico.
defeating juniors James 

at No. 6. Freshman Brian The crowd's attention and the fought awfully hard. Obviously, "Whether they're at NotreMalhame and Smith 8-5. 
Farrell lost 3-6, 3-6 to Jose outcome of the championship if Javier had won, we would Dame or somewhere else." 
"We played better doubles 

Lieberman, and Miami's 54th­· shifted to Taborga's No. 2 have won the match," said "When something like thistoday than we did last time," ranked Michael Lang defeated match against Tomas Smid and Bayliss. "Lindqvist couldn't happens, you can either crysaid head coach Bobby Bayliss. 
No. 91 Smith 5-7, 0-6 at first to Haddock-Morales' charged have finished his match." about it, quit or vow to be bet­
"But we still had the same 

singles in a match that had battle with Lindqvist. Haddock-Morales' match was ter next time," said Bayliss.
I breakdowns that have haunted 
I Lang diving into a corner and Both Smid and Lindqvist abandoned, and the Irish went "And that's what we're going to 
;' us. We 're not holding our ..
bloodying his knees, and Smith struggled with the heat, dehy-home with their fourth second d0. 
-


page 21

Monday, April 23, 2001 The Observer . BIG EAST TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS 
Senior Dasso embraces team-player mentality 
Earlier this season, senior Michelle Dasso knocked off the No. 2 singles player in the nation, and she wasn't exactly happy. 
Although 
Dasso had destroyed Duke's Ansley Cargill, the women's tennis team still lost to the 


Blue Devils Andrew Soukup 
4-3. "She was heartbro­
Associate

ken, and 
Sports Editor 

she'd just beaten the No. 2 kid in the country," said Irish head coach Jay Louderback. "That says a lot about her. She would give everything up to win a match." 
That's been the attitude of the No. 4 singles player in the nation ever since she came to Notre Dame. For Dasso, it's always the team before the individual. 
"You can't really change that focus," she said. "The team is always No. 1 for me and it's always been that way." 
She talks about the team's chances in the NCAA tourna­ment more than her own indi­vidual goals. She believes she has a better chance to win a national title with the team than she does on her own. And she barely mentions her own plans to begin competing pro­fessionally in July. 
Dasso is so unselfish that after she was named the Big East MVP Sunday, she turned around and presented the tro­phy to teammate Becky Varnum, who won the champi­onship-clinching match. 
Dasso didn't even look at the trophy in the five seconds it was in her possession. Not once. 
"Becky deserves it, we all deserve it," she emphatically said. 
Varnum begs to disagree. 
"She deserves it. l don't deserve it," she said. "She's obviously the player of the year. That's just Michelle's atti­tude. She never takes credit, and she should, because she deserves it." 
The senior All-American just might be ~he most modest ath­lete on the Notre Dame cam­pus. For example, she'll gladly speak about Notre Dame's 6-1 win over then-No. 7 Pepperdine at the Team Indoor Championships. 
Only when she's prompted does she remember that she also set the school record for most career singles wins at that match as well. 
"I helped the team out," she said. "That's the most impor­tant thing." 
In fact, Dasso didn't even realize she had that record until she read an article in The Observer the next day. 
"I knew I was really close," Dasso said. "But when you're out there, you just forget about all the wins and losses." 
Dasso, who has won 83 per­cent of her matches since com­ing to Notre Dame, would much rather talk about the things that swayed me," she said. "They made me feel such a big part of the team and it wasn'tjust with me. It's with everyone." 
But at first, Dasso was a little intimidated by the college com­petition. 
"Honestly, I remember after the first week of practice, I called home, and l said, 'I love it, but everyone's so good. I don't know if I'm going to play this year."' 
Dasso claims she played "decent" her first year. That's an understatement. 
She started the season play­ing No. 3 singles for the Irish, but quickly jumped up to No. 2 after winning her first ten matches. By April, the relative­ly unknown freshman had shot up the national rankings to become No. 16 in the nation. During a two-month stretch, she won 19 matches in a row. By the time she finished adjust­ing to collegiate competition, she had 40 singles wins -a new Notre Dame single season record. 
"I didn't 
expect to do as 

team's "I helped the team out. well as I have," achieve­she admits.
That's the most important 
ments than Even her own. thing.,. Louderback She loves was surprised. playing "l thought she
Michelle Dasso
dual match­could be good, 
senior tennis player
es in part but I didn't 
because the team is so involved. 

"If I could play them all year, I would," she said. "That's the reason I love college tennis so much. Tennis is such an indi­vidual sport, but when you get in college, it makes it more like a team." 
In fact, the reason Dasso ended up at Notre Dame was the strong team chemistry. As a high school senior, Dasso was considering attending Duke, William and Mary, and Vanderbilt. Her father, who is a Notre Dame graduate, persuad­ed the Chicago native to take a recruiting trip to South Bend. It was love at first sight. 
"I could sense the team aspect, and that was one of the think she'd be 
this good," he 
said. 
What set Dasso apart is her fierce competitive nature. 
"I watched her play a [national-class high school} match and she was behind 5-1 in the third set," he said. "She came back and won the match." 
''I love competition. I love competing. I hate to lose," Dasso said. "Some people think I might get too fired up at times and sometimes I do, but it really helps me the most. My teammates, they know when I'm playing my best, they can see I'm really into it." 
Varnum, Dasso's doubles partner, agrees. "I rely on her a lot in doubles. 



Michelle Dasso smashes a backhand return in Sunday's match as doubles teammate Becky Varnum looks on. 
I'm pretty much her back up;· she said. 
"She has the big shots, but she can make them all the time. That's what the top play­ers can do." 
'"I just love getting into it and giving it all I have and that's all I can do," Dasso said. 
Dasso, who isn't exactly the biggest tennis player on the court, definitely becomes a dif­ferent person when she steps onto a tennis court. Gone is the quiet, modest and mature young woman. In comes a fired up, cocky athlete. 
Between points. Dasso twirls her racket and stares across the net at her opponent. 
"Every match she plays like it's Wimbledon out there," said senior Kimberly Guy. 
She is a self-described scrap­py athlete who has a 90 MPH server and solid court cover­age. In fact, during one point against Virginia Tech 's Kristen Stubbs, Dasso covered every corner of the court -net, baseline and sidelines -dur­ing an extended rally, while Stubbs remained in one spot. 
Dasso won the point. 
''I've always been little, so I've had to scrap my ways out of matches and hustle and fight hard to find a way to win," she said. 'Tm scrappy. I'll try to run down everything. I'm not as big, but you got to find a way to win." 
If anyone hates to lose. it has to be Dasso. For a player who is a strong advocate of the team-first policy, she puts an incredible amount of pressure on her shoulders. 
"Sometimes that's bad," she acknowledges, "but I think that's a big reason why I've 
done as well as I have." 
"She never. ever gives up ­no matter what," Guy said. 
But she knows she takes loss­es hard. And she admits it's even harder when she loses and the team loses. Against Tennessee's Alison Ojeda -a weekend Dasso said she'd as soon as forget probably because she lost two matches in two days NNotre Dame's top player lost 6-1, 6-0. The team lost 6-1. 
Dasso blamed herself. 
"It's not so bad when I lose and the team wins, but it's a whole different thing when I lose and the team loses," she said. 
But even when she does lose, her teammates are there to back her up. 
"At times, [the pressure] has gotten in my way, and that's when my teammates come in and say. 'C'mon Michelle, you don't have to put it all on you,"' she said. "They've really been great for me this year." 
Dasso 's been pretty good for the team. too. Just ask her coach. 
"She's done so much more than we can ask," he said. ..She's got a very good chance to do good after college. She's such a competitor and can do so well." 
"She has every right to brag about herself," Varnum added. And yet Dasso never does. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


-···--·-·---· 
Monday, April 23, 2001 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXX 

Ranked teams start to fall in Bookstore Round of 128 
Todd Titus led NDToday with couldn't hit the mark as well, "We've got a shot of going all seven points, with Joe Kloska with the exception of John the way if we keep on playing adding five baskets and B.J. Conte. together and have all our guys," Kloska four. Roh Joyce and Mike "That one kid [Conte) was hit­Curry said. Oesterle rounded out the scor­ting everything," Pentzien said. Matthew Flatow, Adam ing. Conte, Steve Rauch, \Vill Dinnell, Andrew Sherman, Jesse 
For awhile, it looked like Fayen, Matt Christ and Chris Fa and Shatomi Kerbowi were NDToday would shut out its Scoletti of Three Beers and a on the losing end of the clash. opponent, but Four White Guys Pair of Kneepads plan to return "They were pretty strong," and Castro hit a shot just before to Bookstore for future tour­Flatow said. "We made them the end of the first half. B.J. neys. work a little bit, not too much." Kloska scored two monster "We will be back next year Krunct managed a 21-17 win blocks to open the second half. with a vengeance," Fayen said. over Leviathan Saturday, thanks NDToday soared ahead 15-1 fol­No. 13 Linebacker Lounge to a 5-1 run midway through lowing a baseline jumper by rolled to a 21.-10 win over the second half. Titus, a coast-to-coast layup by Business in the Front. Party in "They're going to go pretty Joyce, a Titus shot off the glass the Back, even without two of its far," said Leviathan's Mike and a breakaway layup by Joe regular players. Linebacker Zalienka. "With jump shooters, Kloska. Lounge played without former it's hard to shoot ouli,ide in the 
B.J. Kloska ended the game Loyola University basketball wind." I , with a long distance jumper to player Kevin Andersen, who is The round of 64 will be played 
I 
help his team advance to the an assistant men's lacrosse tonight at Stepan Courts, with
' 
round of 64. coach for Notre Dame, and Mike games beginning at 7 p.m. 
I 
I 
Twenty-fourth seeded Ill-tem­Hormuth. Women's tournament action 
' 
pered Sea Bass beat Three Football players Derek Curry began this weekend as well, Beers and a Pair of Kneepads and Vontez Duff helped carry with preliminary rounds taking 21-12. the load for Linebacker Lounge. place over the weekend. 
After the teams worked their way to a 6-6 tie, Ill­

Bookstore Basketball Results
Tempered Sea

basketball walk-on Tom Bass's John
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Krizmanich and Battle joining 
Pentzien 

Team 292 def. Feline Taxidermists, 21-7
Senior Staff Writer the squad. 
scored the

The loss by If We Only Had 
Team 315 def. The Pemchenko, 21-13

next five 

The ranked teams began to Warren, Martin Ingelsby's team, points for his 
Irvin Jones def. Team 331, 21-14 
fall this weekend in Bookstore means there will be no repeat of 
squad as they 

Krunct def. Leviathan, 21-17 
Basketball. a Notre Dame basketball point 
grabbed an 

They named the thing after us def. 4 people ..., 21-14
Seventh-seeded Mourning guard winning the Bookstore 
11-8 lead. 

Team 537 def. Usual Suspects, 21-11
Wood lost to the Lazy Boys 21-championship. Last y~ar, then­"We've got13 and Killer Boots. Man senior Jimmy Dillon played for 
Team 199 def. Adelaide, 21-6
three guys

knocked off No. 19 If We Only champion Keyplay.com. that are 6­
Bootney League def. 5 kilts, no safety pins, 21-8 
Had Warren 21-15 Sunday. Most of the ranked teams in or
foot-2 

Mourning Wood lost without the tourney stayed alive, howev­
taller," 

Duany Duany def. Tedd'['s Head Drive, 21-9 
one of its top players. wide er. Pentzien said. 
Manhorse def. Team 109, 21-9 
The third-seeded
receiver Arnaz Battle. "We're big"The team we played was NDToday.com destroyed Four inside and 


Sexual Frustration VI def. A-Mazing, 21-15 really good," said Matt Panzer of White Guys and Castro's plans have good 
This hot lunch tastes like crap def. Wet Bandits, 21-14 
Mourning Wood, "but had we of victory. Prior to the game, rebounding." 
Nunc dimittis def. Mike Hawk:Shooting from the hip, 21-2 
had Arnaz, we would have Four White Guys and Castro had Pentzien, 
Killer Boots, Man! def. That witch better have my money, 21-13
won." guaranteed a win in The 
Matt Yung, 

Team 358 def. The Hot Curlers, 21-13
With Battle out of the action, Observer. Tom Slabach,Mourning Wood picked up Irish "I thought we were reading Major Thomas 
Over the Hill def. Skins, 21-15 
quarterback Jared Clark who, the funny papers when we saw and John 
MBA Extreme def. Gene Simmon's Tongue, 21-18 
though athletic, didn't have that," said NDToday's Joe Taggart also 
Strategery def. Team 153, 21-10 
Battle's basketball skills. Kloska. 
shot well from 

Westlaw Malicious Prosecution def. We Be Deadhorsen, 21-15
"He's not really a basketball NDToday, the runner-up in outside to player," Panzer said of Clark. the tournament a year ago, beat 
College Boxes def. Donkey Tracks, 21-8
keep their 

"He was just helping us out." its opponent 21-4 after opening 
Project Mayhem def. Mulletosis, 21-9 
tourney run 

Panzer, Chris Bosco and Brett up a 10-1 lead. It was mostly going. Three 
No Come Upence def. Team 236, forfeit 
Gansen returned to the team acrobatic layups and fast breaks 
Beers and a 

Phi Stamma Jamma def. Team 586, 21-18 
after a run to the top 16 a year for NDToday, with a few jump Pair of 
Team 303 def. Team 301, 21-8 
ago, with former Notre Dame shots tossed into the mix. Kneepads 
Brock Williams in the third round and tight end Jabari
NFL 
Holloway in the fourth round. Several other Irish players
continued from page 24 
could still sign with NFL teams as great sports town," he said. "I undrafted free agents. Offensive just feel really fortunate to have guard Jim Jones, wide receiver this opportunity." Joey Getherall and defensive 
H9 M ,E10; 1},i::ii*tl R E N T 
The New England Patriots gave lineman Lance Legree are the two Irish players an opportunity three seniors most likely to sign a to prove themselves next year. contract and fight for a roster 
2001-2002 SCHOOL YEAR 
The Patriots drafted cornerback spot this summer. 
DOMUS PROPERTIES HAS A 10 BEDROOM HOUSE
ATTENTION PLEASE! 
-4 BATH, 3 KITCHENS -BIG COMMON ROOM WITH BAR 
TOMORROW IS MARTY 
-VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS 
;• 
-NEAR OTHER STUDENT HOUSES
0GREN'S 50TH 
-SECURITY SYSTEM -WASHER & DRYER
BIRTHDAY ... BE SURE TO 
CONTACT KRAMER

Ii 
-HEAT INCLUDED IN RENT
' 
i 
(219} 298-9673 CELL PHONE
CALL AND WISH HIM A 
(219) 234-2436 OFFICE

l 
I 
·,1 
(219) 674-2572 VOICE MAIL 
HAPPY ONE! 

ALSO LEASING HOUSES FOR 2002-2003 SCHOOL YEAR 
• 


Monday, April 23, 200 i page 23
The Observer . TODAY 
TYLER

FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 Draft avoider's 59 Baal, e.g. 1 Prop in need? 60 E-mail option "Siegfried" 33 Mattress 61 Singing family 6 High school problem name breakout 36 Middle of the 62 Pigeonhole's 10 From where quip place 
some worship? 39 Roulette bet 63 Reo rival 14 Fish illegally 40 Viscount's 15 Execute superiors DOWN 
perfectly 41 Be of use to 1 Pair of oxen 16 Bud holder 42 Woods nymph 2 Game you can't play left-handed 
17 Beginning of a 43 Unicellular life quip 3Chow
44 Has words? 

20 Plane part 4 Heart problem? 
47 "Good morrow. 
5 Sweater letter 

21 Crescent cousin," for 22 Tried pot luck? Romeo 6 Black 
(cattle breed) 

23 Beil and Barker 48 "Sesame Street" 
regular 7 "High Hopes" 

24 like the 
lyricist

Mississippi 49 The McCoys, 
8 Time for Nick?
for one

25 Rome's 
9 Dubya, as a

Way 51 Ray of 
collegian
Hollywood

29 Tingle area? 
10 Exact
55 End of the quip 

31 Visits from 
satisfaction for 

Vikings 58 ..A _ formality" 
11 Kwanzaa principle ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 12 Goodwill, e.g. ~=~ 13 On tap 
Pun. l»y MlcflMI S. Maurer and Bonnie Pryatowsky 
..................... 1a_Bator 

32 Hospital fluids 45 Preamble 52 Some read 
.................... 19 Source of a 
them

33 Uneducated 46 Accustom: Var.
download guess 47 Make watertight 53 Hill's opposite 
.....1.=...;...;.:...;.t 23 Super's 

entrustment 34 17½ million 49 Give up 
54 Cameo stone

square miles 
24 Cause of getting 

35 Oz visitor 50 Where kip are 
56 Action on eBay
stuck 

Dorothy spent
25 Ship to Colchis 57 Hot temper
37 Makes bales for 51 Court coups 
~.=..~ 26 Cowpoke's buddy the barn -------------­
38 "_Gotta Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
27 Jumbled 

Crow" are available by touch-tone phone: 
28 Nev. neighbor 

42 Roasters' spots 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute) . 
...,.......,.....,_. 29 Spill hot coffee on 43 Em, to Dorothy Annual subscriptions are available for the ..,.......+......,....t 30 They hang 44 1965 King arrest best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 together site years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name ______________________ 
Address ___________________ 
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON sions. Hidden assets will come THIS DAY: Charlie Chaplin, in handy if you wish to become Henry Mancini, Ellen Barkin, Jon involved in an innovative busi­Cryer, Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, ness venture. 000 Lukas Haas, Selena, Dusty VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Springfield, Gabriela Sabatini Use your creative talents at work. 
Happy Birthday: Challenges Your ability to work with fine but will motivate you this year. Stand important details will be admired tall and prepare to push ahead. and rewarded. You can expect to The harder you strive for perfec­receive rewards. 000 tion, the better you will do. Trust­LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You ing others will be costly and can have whatever you want if teach you a valuable lesson. Rec­you use your intellectual charm. ognize the difference between a Your passionate mood and per­true and a fair-weather friend. suasive tactics will be well­The world is forever changing, received by your mate. Plan a and so should you if you want to nice evening for two. 00000 stay in control. Your numbers: 9, SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 13, 21, 24, 28, 32 Expect disruptions at home. Try 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): not to take things to heart. Don't let anyone stand in your Acceptance is the key. Don't be way. You aren't a follower. It's afraid to ask for help. You'll be time you made yourself heard. surprised at how willing others Use your skills to get things are to help out. 00 accomplished. You may not SAGITD\RIUS (Nov; 22-Dec. 21): please everyone, but that's to be Make the decision to go back to expected. 000 school. Study a subject that will 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): help you change your direction in Your personal life may experience life. You may be limited in the some setbacks. Limitations due to short term, but overall it will be a lack of open communication are worth your while. 0000 apparent. Try to broach the prob­CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan.19): lems with compassion. 00 Financial difficulties due to 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): poor investments or unforeseen You'll accomplish the most if you expenses will be depressing. Lis­travel for business purposes. You ten to the advice of respected can get your point across and friends. 000 make valuable connections. Don't AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): hold back: If you have an idea, Drastic alterations in your posi­present it. 00000 tion will occur if you haven't 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): taken the time to deal with small Problems with older female rela­but important details in your job. tives will quickly turn into a Be prepared to make changes. 00 demanding burden if you are PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): willing to take the brunt of the Invite good friends over. You responsibility. Try to get siblings need to relax and get your mind tol:ielp.000 off your work and your worries. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You You may want to contemplate a can stabilize a partnership if you professional and residential move are willing to make a few conces-in the near future. 000 
Birthday Baby: You're a little wizard -bright, articulate and so 
curious. You will take things apart and, with luck, put them back 
together. You want to do all, experience all and see all. 
(Need advice? Check. out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialaslcom., astromate.com.) 
C0 2001 Universal Press Syndicate 

IF COMMENCEMENT SPEAKERS WERE CHOSEN BY THE STUDENT BODY••. 
I &IVE YOV. •. I GIVE YOU•.• THE I GIVE YOU•.• 
THE MAYOR OF SOUTH BEND! U.N. SECRETARY GENERALI THE PRESIDENTI 
Fox TROT BILL AMEND 
A TWO-MILE WALK  SWAMP-LIKE MUD•••  WORMS ALL OVER  CAN I PICk  
THRou&H KNEE•0EEP  THE SIDEWALk•..  A DAY To  
PUDDLES•••  MISS THE  
SCHOOL SUS,  
oR WHAT?!  


WE MIC:,HT 
GET HAIL 
ToMoR• 


Are ~ou co.\\,~ -th~t nvl"I be.r a:\"''" ? 
__ ,,,. 

The Voice ofDART's other job. 


Swinging for the fences 
The Notre Dame baseball team is on the verge ofa No. I ranking after a three-game sweep of Villanova this weekend. 
page 14 

O
THE page 24 BSERVER Monday, April 23, 2001 

NFL DRAFT 
Six Notre Dame players selected in 2001 NFL Draft 

By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Sports Writer 
Rebounding from a disappointing 2000 NFL draft when only once Irish player was drafted, six Notre Dame seniors were selected in this weekend's NFL 2001 draft. 
!. Mike Gandy. Brock Williams, Anthony Denman, Dan O'Leary, Tony Driver and Jabari Holloway were selected in one of the seven rounds. Notre Dame's six draftees gave them as many or more draft picks than any school but four. Florida State led all schools with nine picks while Wisconsin followed close­ly behind with eight. Both Miami and Nebraska had seven players chosen. 
The draft ended weeks of intense scruti­ny of the players by NFL teams and hours of anxiety waiting for a call from a future employer. But when the phone call came and his name flashed across the screens, every player was excited. 
"I was absolutely so excited," said Dan O'Leary who was chosen in the sixth round by the Buffalo Bills. "I got a call from the Steelers saying they were think­ing about taking me in the next round and then all of a sudden the Bills click in and say they are really interested. I get off the phone with the Steelers who have a later pick and I stayed on the line with Buffalo who had two picks in a row. Then all of a sudden, there it is, my name comes across the screen." 
O'Leary was one of two Irish players chosen by the Bills in the sixth round. Buffalo also selected Irish safety Tony Driver. 
O'Leary said he is looking forward to playing on the same team as Driver in the NFL. 
"Tony and I get along great," O'Leary said. "I can see us maybe even rooming together next year." 
O'Leary's skills as both a tight end and a long snapper made him desirable to the Bills. While he was not rated highly among tight end prospects, he was a capable long snapper. In Buffalo, O'Leary said he will compete for a chance at both jobs. 
"The fact that I could long snap helped a ton," he said. "It gave me the opportunity to demonstrate two types of roles that I could play." 
Mike Gandy, a third round selection by the Chicago Bears, was the first Irish play• er chosen. Gandy was a bit surprised that the Bears chose him. He hadn't worked out or spent too much time talking to Chicago in the weeks leading up to the draft. 
Nevertheless. Gandy is excited to be playing in Chicago next year· alongside former teammates Brad Williams and Jerry Wisne. 
"It's good to go to a team with such great tradition like Chicago and such a 
see NFL/page 18 


. Women defeat 
I I 
Miami 4-1 in Big East Championship match 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Associate Sports Editor 
CORAL GABLES, Fla. They wanted Miami. They got 


Miami. And they beat Miami. But it wasn't easy. The Irish 4-1 win over their 
arch-rival Hurricanes in the finals of the Big East Women's tennis tournament was a hard fought, intense and controversial match. 
And that was exactly what the Irish wanted. After all, they were still smarting from their loss in last year's finals to the Hurricanes. 
"After losing it last year, they were pretty much on a mission," said Irish head coach Jay Louderback. 
"We were out to get them this year," added Becky Varnum. 
Despite 90-degree temperatures, swirling winds, occasional rain, and a raucous crowd, the Irish still won their fourth Big East title in six years. 

Throughout the match, Miami fans and parents surrounded the courts, rowdily cheering any Hurricane point. 
Nowhere was the Notre Dame­Miami rivalry more apparent than in Lindsey Green's No. 5 singles match. The junior fell ,behind 2-5 in the first set to Miami's Sihem Bennacer before rallying back to take the set 7-5. 
"I got a little riled after I lost that third game," Green said. "I started to fight back and made some 
see WOMEN/page 17 

BIG EAST TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS 
Women win Big East title, men place second 

. Irish men fall to Hurricanes 4-2 in conference title match 
By KATIE HUGHES 
Sports Writer 
CORAL GABLES. Fla. 
In their second visit to Coral Gables in the last two weeks and their sixth time facing the Miami Hurricanes in the Big East final, the 12th-ranked Irish lost 4-2 ori Sunday, dashing hopes for a guar­anteed chance to host an NCAA regional match. 
Ranked first in the Big East going into the tournament. the Irish advanced to the final after a bye on Friday, and a 4-0 win over Rutgers on Saturday that lasted only one hour and 15 minutes. 
Sunday's situation was full of frustrating similarities to Notre Dame's last 4-3 loss to the Hurricanes, again coming down to a battle to hang on to two wins at the end of the match. 
"They were just aggressive," said junior Casey Smith, who became so frustrated during his singles match that he threw his racket down, breaking it in two places. "They took advantage of opportunities, and we let this one slip away." 
The Irish started out down 1-0 after losing the doubles point. The No. 3 doubles team of senior Matt Daly and freshman Luis Haddock­Morales lost to Miami's Johan Lindqvist and Andrew Golub, 9-7. 
The Irish 21st-ranked team of juniors Javier Taborga and Aaron Talarico the defeated No. 44th ranked Peter Hoffman and Tomas 
see MEN/page 20 


Baseball Women's Lacrosse Men's Lacrosse vs. Bowling Green vs. Ohio State vs. Harvard
SPORTS 

Tuesday, 5:05 p.m. Wednesday, 4 p.m. Saturday, 1 p.m. 
ATA 

Softball Football Men's Golfat Illinois-Chicago Blue-Gold Game at Big East Championship 
GLANCE 

Tuesday, 5:30 p.m. 
Saturday, 1 :30 p.m. Saturday-Sunday
• 





