
If I had a million dollars ... 
SUNNY 

Wednesday

A Notre Dame alumnus can be seen on CBS's "The Amazing Race" tonight, a reality show where contestants race around the world to ·make 
HIGH 78° 

SEPTEMBERS,
$1 million.
LOW 56° 
2001
scene . page 12 




The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary-s 
VOL XXXV NO. 7 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Alleged drug use, rape occurred in Keough 
• Security has not confirmed incidents are linked 
By MYRA McGRIFF Saint Mary's Editor • 
The Saint Mary's student who possibly ingested a date rape drug may have been sexually assaulted. according to a crime log repmi from Saint Mary's Security. 
The log report. entered Tuesday. linked the incident to Keough Hall. Notre Dame's crime log. entered Tuesday. confirmed an alleged rape at Keough but made no men­tion ofa possible date rape drug. 
Neither security department has con­Both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's finned if the two incidents are related. Security have confirmed each incident 
Saint  Mary's  occurred  in  Keough.  Saint  
and Notre Dame crime logs listed different report  "Oth(!r people made assumptions about what  Mary's log also identified the rooms of the alleged incident as 419 and 421 Keough.  
times for the inci­dents. Saint  they observed. ,,  The residents of those rooms declined to comment when  
Mary's received the report at 9:15  Linda Timm  reached Tuesday night. "We can't give a comment,  
p.m.  Friday,  vice president of Student Affairs  that goes for the whole section,"  
according to the log. Notre Dame  at Saint Mary's  said Holt Zeidler, a senior Keough resident assistant speak­ 
lists the incident  ing as section 4A spokesman.  

at 9:05 p.m. but did not receive the report v\Thile Saint Mary's issued a crime alert to until 1:12 a.m.• according to the Notre Dame students by e-mail Saturday, the alert only log. reported the possible ingestion of a date rape drug. The alert did not say whether the stu­dent had been sexually a55aulted. 
Linda Timm.vice president of Student Affairs at Saint Mary's, said she did not include the possible sexual assault in the alert because it has not been confirmed. 
"Until the results are in, I don't know," Timm said. "Other people made assump­tions about what they observed." 
Notre Dame did not issue a crime alert. 
"We didn't issue a crime alert because the suspect and victim knew each other," said Chuck Hurley, assistant director ofNDSP. 
Contact Myra McGriff at mcgrO l 8 l@saintmarys.edu. 


Memories the focus for senior class 
Editor's Note: This is part three of a five-part series looking al student govern­ment at Notre Dame, includ­ing class councils and execu­tive offices. An article will appear every day this week. 
By MAUREEN SMITHE 
A.ssociate News Editor 
Freshman Orientation may have been three years ago for the class of 2002, but that doesn't mean the icebreaking activities have to end. 
Tonight. in the first of many events planned for the upcom­ing-y ,~ a r . tlw Sf'n ior r.l ass Council plans to resurrect an old orienta­t i o n version of the Graffiti Dance, the council is also hosting a Taco Bell class dinner for $1 tonight and class mass at the Grotto on Sept. 16. 
But the council has plans that extend far beyond Senior 
0. 

The council will bring stu­dents, faculty and community members together to honor the memory of Conor Murphy, Brione Clary and Miranda Thomas through a special Last Word fundraiser, an event inspired by Murphy. Designed to raise money for leukemia research, the fundraiser will bring a famous speaker to campus to present a speech as though it was his or her last. 
"I want their memories to 
live on and I feel 
like this will 
favorite ..It's scary to think that help us all to from the 
we're in our last year remember and 
orientation to celebrate
already, and this gives us

graveyard. their lives," President all a chance to have fun Sestile said. 
P e t e r together one more year. .. "In addition to 
Rossman, money raised, vicepresi­the event will dent Laura Peter Rossman raise a ware­Rompf. senior class president ness," Rompf 
treasurer C h r i s McConnell and secretary Lisa Sestile organized a T-shirt signing event at the Alumni Senior Club to kick off their own version of Senior Orientation. 
"Senior-0 is important to us because we want to provide lots of .social events to bring our class together for this last year and we hope to kick it off with this nm~." SPstile said. 
''It's scary to think that we're in our last year already, and this gives us all a chance to have fun together one more year." Hossman said. 
In addition to the updated said. "Conor, 
Brione and Miranda touched many lives in the class of 2002 -it's the least we can do in return." 
Rossman said the council has big plans for Senior Week. including a day trip to a Cubs gamo, buses to Cedar Point, a Silverhawks night and Class formal. 
"Our biggest event this year will be Senior Week. We stayed last year to see how Senior \\'eek was run and to get some ideas for this year." he said. 
Contact Maureen Smithe at Smithe.l@nd.edu. 
I SIGNED UP FOR HOW MANY CLUBS? 

By BECKY SHEPKOWSKI News Writer 
Saint Mary's sophomore Kelly Willbrandt just wanted to print a PowerPoint presentation for her biology class. She didn't have the presenta­tion program on her computer, so she had to use one of the College's computer labs. 
There, she found herself out of luck. 
"The two computer classrooms in Madeleva were being used, the lab in Madeleva was locked, and the computers in the writing center were all under repair," Willbrandt said. "By the time I found a working computer in the Trumper Center, I had wasted nearly an hour of my time." 

Resnet. the campus technology office that han­dles management of the computer labs, has been flooded with students complaining about lack of computer availability on campus, and slow Internet access since school began. 
Complaints have also been heard from students wishing to get online in residence hall e-mail lounges. Students wishing to use the lounge in 
see I.ABS/page 4 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, September 5, 2001 
INSIDE COLUMN 
I'm lost 

Wait, let me rephrase that: I'm lost -without my laptop. The most technical thing I brought with me to college freshman year was my fridge. I didn't have a computer. Whenever I got the urge, I would utilize the computer lounge. But after awhile, bumming com­
puter usage off friends lost its appeal. 
As I dramatically explained to my parents, having a laptop was neces­sary for my survival in col­lege. I explained all the things that I would use it for -minus the CD burning and 


DVD watching, of course. My 
Kelly Hager

pleas were not immediately tended to. But. after surviv­ing the rest of freshman year without one, and half of Copy Editor my sophomore year, Santa brought my dream gift by way of a moo print box. Thanks to mom, dad and Gateway, my life would be changed forever. 
I became a woman with a purpose. And for the first week, that purpose was AOL Instant Messenger. But, like a phase, that passed and I moved on to bigger and better things: Yahoo games. Writer's side note: If you participate in these games, please make an effort to play "showbandman." That is my little brother. Beat the pants off him. 
With a three-month-old laptop, I felt very simi­lar to a parent of a three-month-old child. The Gateway store had successfully bumped my best friend from her No. 1 spot on my speed dial. I admit that I was overprotective. I was dependent. Ijust couldn't imagine what I would do if my newfound friend broke beyond repair. 
And then, it happened. It began acting fussy; uninstalling programs and eventually destroying all the work I had done -including two papers due the next day. Inconsolable, I entered the computer store and made my way to the counter. Handing over my laptop, I was told that they would do everything in their power to save my papers. To hell with my papers I was thinking, what about my Buddy List? 
I went back to my dorm room and waited for three days. Three days without e-mail or my music library, three days without my beloved lap­top. I waited like an expectant father. Please let everything be all right, I thought to myself. Please let the Gateway guru salvage my papers. Please let them be more effective then campus cluster consultants. (Even though I will admit that some­times rebooting a computer actually makes the problem go away} Oh please, Oh please. 
I was lucky. My laptop had pulled through with flying colors, bringing with it two papers com­posed by yours truly. I was so relieved. 
Now, after surviving such an ordeal, I am giv­ing my computer a break from its normal duties. I am taking time to enjoy its other fine qualities, such as Minesweeper and Paint. I am back to the same old school programs that I had once claimed to be too outdated for the likes of any college student. When the time comes, I am sure I will make my way back to the world of AOL, MP3's and Yahoo. Same screen name, same com­puter. different appreciation. 
It is a wonderment to think of how much my scholastic routine has been impacted by having my own personal computer. I guess they are like people, you just don't realize how much you rely on them until they are gone. So, like a good friend, I will continue to appreciate my laptop for what it's worth. And, in remembering how much it is worth, I will keep Gateway on speed dial just in case. 
Contact Kelly Hager at Khager@nd.edu. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest star.dards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize rhat we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us ar 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday excepc during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction righcs are reserved. 
THIS WEEK IN MICHIANA 
Wednesday  Thursday  
. Concert: The World  . Performance:  "Plain &  
Goes Round: The Songs to  Fancy," 2 p.m., Hound  
Kander and Ebb, 8 p.m.,  Barn Theatre, Amish  
Wagon Wheel Theater  Acres, Nappanee  
. Event: The Visionary  . Event: "Cole," Round  
Tour 2001, 9 p.m, The  Barn Theatre, Amish  
Factory. Elkhart  Acres, 9 p.m., Nappanee  

Friday 
. 
Event: 18th Annual Antique Engine & Tractor Show, all day, South Haven 

. 
Event: Learn to Dance the Bolero, 7:30 p.m., Community Room, Scottsdale Mall 


Saturday 
. 
Event: 3rd Annual Indian Arts Expo, Olympia Plaza Hotel, Hammond 

. 
Event: Baroda Summerfest: Heyn Organ & Tissue SK Run/Walk, 9 a.m., Baroda 


Compiled from U-Wire reports


BEYOND CAMPUS 
Florida schools aim for new drinking policies 
GAINESVILLE 

The problems are nothing new: College students drinking too much alcohol and local bars offering spe­cials that may entice even more binge-like behavior. 
But college towns, in coordination with Florida's two largest universi­ties, are attacking the problems in what they call a different way by attempting to target the attitudes students have about drinking and its effects. 
With a program called "Social Norms" at both the University of Florida and Florida State University and alternative nighttime activities, universities across the state are looking into ways to change the atti­tudes of students toward alcohol consumption. 

In Gainesville, students have seen the creation of the Party Patrol that polices the streets enforcing the city's noise ordinance and may see work being done to curb binge-drinking advertisements. 
"We're trying to prevent people from dying ... or having worse quality of life," Glassman said. "Do we have to wait for another incident before we do something?" 
The Tallahassee-based Partnership for Alcohol Responsibility, working hand-in-hand with members of the FSU Division of Student Affairs, intends to make its mark with local businesses and within the City Commission. 
"We need to take a serious look at our campus environment," said Winston Scott, FSU vice president for Student Affairs. "This is not a prohibi­tion movement ... we're saying to stu­dents of age that if you're going to drink, drink responsibl;r." 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA -SF 
Univ. eligible for stem cell research 
President George W. Bush named University of California-San Francisco as one of 10 locations with stem cell lines eligible for use by federally funded scientists August 27. The nod of approval from the federal government on Aug. 9 to fund stem cell research -which requires the use of leftover human embryos from in vitro fertilization -will allow the 10 labs to use cultures developed before that date. If the research reaches the potential sci• entists hope it will, it may be able to treat diabetes, Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and heart disease by regenerating cells that have been destroyed or dam­aged. "UCSF is committed to furthering research on human embryonic stem cells and will make its two cell lines available," Sue Shafer, UCSF's assistant vice chancellor, said in a statement. There are four institutions in the United States and six in Sweden, Australia, India and Israel with a total of 60 stem cell lines. UCSF possesses two lines, the first derived in January and the second in May 2001. 
UNIVERSITY OF UTAH 

Electronic textbooks available 
\Vith the first two weeks of school over, many stu­dents are left asking the age-old questions: Why are books so expensive? \\'ell, with the help of a little technology, those days may be returning. The Marriott Library is currently using a program which allows professors to put their class textbooks on elec­tronic files called E-reserves. Students can access these E-reserves on campus computers. If the stu­dent has a network account with the U. they can do it right from home. As long as the student uses the information strictly for educational purposes and doesn't try to sell it, the entire thing is legal. According to a deal between the publishers and partic­ipating universities, only 10 percent of the books can be put online. However, the Marriott Library currently only puts an average of one chapter on E-reserve. "We would like to put more of the readings, or even all of the books, on E-rescrve. but the way our lawyers inter­pret the copyright law, we just can't," said Daniel Lee, an associate librarian for the Marriott Library. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeathere forecast for noon, Wednesday, Sept. 5.
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day.
AccuWeather*forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Thursd y Friday Saturd9'-Y Sunda~ ......... •• ••• 

e 2001 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 

Mon9ay /' ,.sl9­
l" t-../'..j...,,.'-•.J ,\}
tV 
,_,..--> 


4,~-~89Q ~ ~ ~ 
Showers T-storms Rain Flumes Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy v... /l$Sociated Press Grapl,,c,iNttt 
Pr-ure: 

® © D Q D D D GB .v~• 
Hi h Low Shower• Rain T-•torms Fluni•• Snow Ice Sunn Pt. Clo"d Cloud 
Atlanta 77 66 ,. Las Vegas 96 74 Portland 73 49 Baltimore 80 62 Memphis 90 61 Sacramento 91 53 Boston 77 55 Milwaukee 69 50 St. Louis 82 64 Chicago 72 51 New York 78 63 Tampa 86 74 Houston 83 66 Philadelphia 81 62 Washington DC 79 67 
..,. ____ ~---------· ---------------·----------·
... 
Wednesday, September 5, 2001 page 3 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Mission receives largest sum from Bengal Bouts 
By AMANDA GRECO News Writer 
Prominent members of the Iloly Cross Mission and Bengal Bouts organization gathered Tuesday afternoon on the front porch of Corby Hall for the presentation of' the largest donation the Bouts has yet given to the Bangladesh Missions. 
Generated by fundraising from last semester's Bengal Bouts, the check was presented to Father James Hahilly, for­mer director of the 
I[oly Cross tvtission, and Father Joe Peixotto, a Bangladesh mis­sionary for the past 39 years.·  "/ can't think ofa better way to do charity than to combine a sport with a very worthy cause. "  numbers are the women boxers, who help the men with  
"It's remarkable what has hap­pened \Vith Bengal  Karie Jerge president of the women's team  the sale of T-shirts and tickets and  
Bouts over the last  also  host  
two years  ...  this  their  own  

last year especially," said Peixotto fundraiser, The Power Hour, in about the record $77,000 dona­the fall. The women involved in tion. this fundraiser receive pledges for 
Now in its 72nd year, the Bengal the amount of push-ups, sit-ups 
Bouts has seen a tremendous and jumping jacks they can per­increase in fundraising over the form within an hour's time. last five years, according to "I can't think of a better way to 
Hahilly. 

"Previously, we would be receiv­ing checks ranging from $18.000 to $26,000," Hahilly said. "But it has been increasing yearly. Last year, we received $51,000 and that was tremendous," Hahilly added. 
Each year, the Bengal Bouts gathers financial support from the sale of program advertising space. alumni donations and ticket sales for the spring boxing event. One hundred percent of the revenue earned goes to charity. 
Adding to 
the soaring 


5 T C 

FlipSide would like to thank all of these organizations, clubs, and offices, without whom Flipstock 2001 would not have been possible. The concert was a success due in no small part to the tireless efforts of the following groups: 
do charity than to combine a sport with a very worthy cause," said Kari Jerge. presi­dent of the women's team. Women's team captain. Katie Schwerdtmann agrees. "Getting all the girls together working out in the same room and working for the same cause shows that this event is truly about the people," Schwerdtmann added. 
Though $77,000 may not seem like much when a student considers what he or she spends on his or her education, that money means much more to the hungry and poor in Bangladesh. According to Peixotto, the conversion rate from the Bangladesh taka to the American dollar is 55:1. For Rahilly, this is one of the most important lessons encompassed by the Bouts. 
"It really shows how little we understand the value of our money," Rahilly said. 
All donations go to the Holy Cross Mission and are delegat­ed for various purpos·es throughout Bangladesh. 
In Dhaka. where the Holy Cross-founded Notre Dame College is located, donations are used for various purposes including schooling, disaster relief, clinics, food and the insti­tution of social projects involv­ing the thousands of people who receive the benefit of these donations. Also established in Dhaka is a literacy school attended by 1,200 students, a sick shelter for the disadvan­taged seeking medical treat­ment and a hostel for children in distress. 
For the Notre Dame students directly involved with the fundraising efforts, perspectives have been altered and sobering lessons have been learned. Admittedly, most students entered the Bouts for the boxing, knowing little about the true purpose behind the fights. Bengal Bouts 
AdWorks 
AP Image Team 
SMC Board of Governance 
Breen-Phillips Hall 
ND Campus Ministry 
ND Career Center 
Cavanaugh Hall SMC Class of 2003 
SMC Class of 2004 
ND Class of 2004 
ND Club Coordination Council 
ND Counseling Center 
Dillon Hall 
ND Executive Cabinet 
ND Facilities Operations 
ND Fire Department 
ND First Aid Services Team 
SMC First Year of Studies 
ND Food Services ND General Counsel ND Iron Sharpens Iron ND Joyce Center Leftover Productions ND Multicultural Affairs ND Office of Alcohol and Drug Education SMC Office of the President ND Office of Student Affairs 
ND PILLARS 
ND RecSports SMC Residence Hall Association ND Risk Management ND Security Police Department ND Stadium Ushers Stanford Hall SMC Student Activities Board ND Student Activities Office SMC Student Affairs ND Student Union Board 
Special Thanks goes to all the volunteers who helped with the setup and cleanup of the show on Thursday, Friday, and Saturday. They worked many late and early hours, and were really the backbone of the show. 

Thanks to Bengal Bouts' success last spring, Father Jose Peixotto and Father James Rahilly received the $77,000 donation from Matt Fumagalli, Bengal Bouts president and Kari Jerge, 
president of the women's team. 
senior officer Rob Joyce describes his involvement in the Bouts as a "dualistic approach. I wanted to do something for charity and to feed hungry mouths but I also wanted to keep in shape," Joyce said. 
Beyond the healthy hearts and lean muscles, the benefits of the 
[the competition] more impor­tant," said senior officer Mark
,

Criniti. Occasionally, the organiza­tion receives letters of gratitude from Bangladesh missionaries and children alike. 
"Seeing firsthand the hard work that is put forth helps to make us realize what our work goes to." said Matt Fumagalli, Bengal Bouts president. 
That sentiment is nothing new in the Bouts. Coach Tom Suddes is now in his 31st year with the Bouts. "It's a whole different expe­rience of being able to say this is a great program," Suddes said. 
The organizers would like to see the numbers and support continue to rise. "Our goal is to make it [the donation] an even greater amount, maybe to reach the $100,000 mark," Fumagalli said. 
Plans are in the making for more fundraising, rallying more support and gaining more publici­ty. "We'd like to see more can1pus involvement with students," Fumagalli said. "You can ask any­one involved and they will tell you this is the best thing they've ever done at Notre Dame." 
Contact Amanda Greco at Amanda_K_Greco@hotmail.com. 

Attention All Undergrads Living Off-Campus: 
OFF.CAMPUS SENATOR VACANCY! ffanyone is interested in running for this position, please email the Student Government Vice-president for Elections at McCarthy. ll2@nd.edu by Wednesday, September ~, at 5p.m. No additional candidates will be accepted after this time. 
*Anyundergraduate students interested in the position must reside off-campus for ilie entire 2001-2002 academic year. 
Wednesday, September 5, 2001

page4 The Observer . NEWS 
Trumper Computer Center are replaced each year, new classroom
Labs

Second death caps standoff 
computers are rotated into class­

"We were actually hav­
Associated Press 
ing a dialogue with Mr. Rohm and he was in the
VANDALIA. Mich. 

process, we felt, of bringing
A standoff at a camp­

this to a successful conclu­
ground for marijuana advo­
sion," Underwood said.
cates ended in its fifth day A bomb squad was check­
Tuesday with a second man 
ing the campground after
fatally shot by police after 
the shooting. "It's our
allegedly pointing a weapon 
understanding that the
at an officer. 
campground has been
Rolland Rohm, 28, had 

booby-trapped," Underwood
been ordered several times 
said.

to put his weapon down, 
Rainbow Farm's Web site
Cass County Sheriff Joseph says the campground "sup­
Underwood Jr. said. He 
ports the medical, spiritual,lived at the 
a n d

c a m p ­
responsi­

ground, "It's our understanding 
ble recre­

called 
that the campground has ational
Rainbow 
Farms, with been booby-trapped.,, uses of 
marijuana

47-year-old 
for a moreG r o v e r 

Joseph Underwood, Jr. sane and
Crosslin, the 
c a p Cass County Sherriff compas­
m ­

ground's owner. 
Crosslin was fatally shot Monday night by an FBI agent after pointing a rifle at the agent, Underwood said. Crosslin had been fac­ing felony drug and weapons charges. 
Officials said a third man, Brandon J. Peoples, suffered minor injuries when Crosslin was shot and was being questioned. 
Early Tuesday, Rohm had said he would surrender at 7 a.m. if his son were brought to see him, Underwood said. The sheriff said police were in the process of granting the request when a fire was reported at the compound shortly after 6 a.m. and Hohm was seen leaving the residence with a long gun. 
About a half-hour later, Underwood said, police ordered Rohm to drop the weapon, but he pointed it at the officer. 
sion ate 
America." 

The standoff began Friday when deputies went to the farm after neighbors said Crosslin was burning buildings on the property, which is the target of civil forfeiture proceedings. Crosslin reportedly warned neighbors to leave the area because "all hell was going to break loose." 
Dori Leo, Crosslin's and Rohm's attorney, said Rohm and his 12-year-old son, who was recently placed in foster care, had lived with Crosslin at least five years. Leo said Crosslin was upset because Rohm's son, whom he helped raise, had been taken from the home. 
Authorities alleged Crosslin shot a news heli­copter from \VNDU-TV in nearby South Bend, Ind., as it flew overhead Friday. Shots also were fired at an unmarked state police plane Saturday but missed, police 

Lauren Jiloty  James Jiloty  
St. Mary's College  University of Notre Dame  
Class of 2002  Class of 2002  

Happy twenty-first birthday, Lauren and James. You've come a long way. Enjoy the journey! 
Love, Mom, Dad ... and Jordan 
said. Both aircraft landed safely. 
Deputies said they believe Crosslin was upset about a bond revocation hearing scheduled for Friday, which he did not attend. It was set because police said he had held a festival at the camp­ground in violation of the terms of his release on bond after previous drug and weapons charges. 
Crosslin was arrested in May over allegations of marijuana use at his 34­acre campground and charged with felony posses­sion of a firearm, growing marijuana and maintaining a drug house. 
Crosslin had said he bought the property about 15 years ago to support marijuana advocacy. 
Buzz Daily, 44, a farmer who had known Crosslin and Rohm for about five years and attended several festivals at the campground, said the pair were known for their generosity. Daily said they would drive into Vandalia at Christmas and distribute gifts, and would buy food and clothes for people at the campground. 
"I am heartbroken," Daily said. "I don't think they_ went into this trying to hurt anyone.'' 
Rohm's stepfather, John Livermore, said the family is considering a lawsuit against police andfederal agents. 
Michigan State Police Lt. Mike Risko defended the shootings, and said Rohm was repeatedly ordered to put down his gun. 
"In each occasion both subjects pointed firearms at officers, and I don't know what else you would have officers do," Hisko said. 
continued from pagel 
Holy Cross Hall have found two very old Power Macintosh comput­ers, minus the keyboards. 
Sally Goldberg, network and sys­tems administrator, said there are new computers for both the Holy Cross and McCandless lounges, but due to staffing problems, they have yet to be set up. 
"\Ve are sorely understaffed ­we have only two people to take care of the entire campus," said Goldberg. 
The staffing problems are why more than half of the Dell com put­ers in the writing center have yet to· be configured for the network and why the Madeleva 252 lab is locked and filled with boxes. However, Trumper Computer Center, which received all new Dell computers · this year, is fully functional. 
Jamie Rubino, a junior computer cluster consultant at the Trumper Center, is hopeful the situation 'A-ill be remedied soon. 
"We haven't had any problems. We've got new computers and peo­ple seem to be very happy with them," said Rubino. 
Even though computers in the 
rooms every other year. Faculty and staff receive the older class­room computers, which are· retired after a three-year stay. At that time, the computers are either moved to e-mail lounges or are recycled. The oldest classroom computers are now going on their second year. 
"I think it is very important for students to realize that they have access to the newest equipment," said Dan Mandell, faculty support specialist. 
Goldberg said that the current problems are being fixed. Student workers from many sections of the information technology department are logging hours at the help desk so that the usual workers can con­centrate on configuring new com­puters. 
As for now, students are encour­aged to use the computers in the Trumper Center, the library base­ment classroom, or Madeleva 351. Although there are other locations with some functional computers, these places are fully functional and are less likely to cause problems, Goldberg said. 
Contact Becky Shepkowski at shep0197@saintmarys.edu. 



The deans in the College ofArts & Letters Undergraduate Studies Office are excited to invite you to join them for informal conversation during lunch in the North I South Dining Halls on the 
following days: 
North Dining Hall 
September 19 October 30 November26 

South Dining Hall 
September6 
October 9 
November 12 
December4 
Dean Preacher, Dean Nemecek, and Dean Pratt, along with special guests will be at the t.a:ole decorated with balloons. 
Get to know your deans in a casual social atmosphere! 
Win a free t-shirt! 

ATION 
Wednesday, September 5, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
U.N. rascism talks continue: After the United States and Israel walked out Monday night over a condemnation of Israel, in a proposed conference declaration, South Africa rushed to convene emergency meetings to redraft the declaration and a program of action in the hope of averting other nation walkouts. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Military questions capital cases: A 
movement of jurisdictions, organizations and individuals are questioning the death penalty in the military, saying that service personnel deserve the same protections as civilians. In civilian courts, no person may be convicted of a capital crime except by the unanimous verdict of a 12-member jury. A jury of five is all that is required to sentence a member of the armed services to death in a court-mar­tial. 
U.S. to develop anthrax strain: 
The Defense Intelligence Agency plans to develop small amounts of a potentially more potent variant of' the bacterium that causes deadly anthrax. Pentagon officials said Tuesday that the purpose of developing a new strain of anthrax is strictly defensive: to ensure that an effective vaccine is available should a biological weapon be used against American troops. 
Shark attacks swimmers: A man was killed by a shark and his girlfriend was criti­cally injured as they swam along the North Carolina shore, the latest in a series of East Coast shark attacks and the second deadly one of the holiday weekend. It was believed to be the first attack on the North Carolina coast this year. The last reported fatal shark attack in North Carolina was in 1957. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Union president faces arrest: The president of lhe United Mine \Yorkers and 11 other people were arrested in front of a cheering crowd Tuesday for blocking a road during a protest outside a coal mine. Cecil Hoberts, who is attempting to unionize more than a dozen Black Beauty Coal Co. mines in Indiana and Illinois, said the arrests were part of a recruitment effort. Gibson County Sheriff George Ballard asked the group to move off a road on coal company property at least five times before the arrests. Each was charged with failure to comply with police. 
Market Watch September 4 

Dow 
9,997.49 +47.74 

Jones 

Composite Same: 
Volume: 238 NIA 
AMEX: 869.88 -3.52 NASDAQ: 1,770.78 -34.65 NYSE: 589.55 +1.71 S&P 500: 1,132.94 -t0.64 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 INDX (QQQ) -3.17 -1.16 35.47 COMPAQ COMPUTER (CPQ) -10.28 -1. 27 11. 08 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -3.43 -0.56 15.77 INTEL CORP (INTC) -3.97 -1.11 26.85 EXODUS COMM INC (EXDS) -26.14 -0.23 0.65 

RUSSIA 
Associated Press 

ST.PETERSBURG 
For nearly 400 days since two mysterious tor­pedo room explosions ripped open the nuclear submarine Kursk, causing the deaths of all 118 Russian crewmen, the 505-foot vessel has been nestling into the sediments on the bottom of the Barents Sea. 
Periodically, Russian warships on guard above the wreck have thrown live hand grenades into the water, to ward oIT any prying foreign submarines that may be interested in scavenging the Kursk's 
weapons, codes or elec­tronics. 
Now, a fleet of high-tech salvage vessels is taking over from the warships. If all goes according to plan -and little has so far -a Dutch lifting barge called the Giant 4, tethered by eight anchor lines, will raise the Kursk from the seabed later this month using 26 computer-con­trolled hydraulic jacks in an operation that, its designers say, can be accomplished in 12 to 16 hours. 
But the raising of the Kursk, one of the largest and most complex sal­vages ever attempted, is 

fraught with dangers. The crews must avoid disturb­ing the Kursk 's twin nuclear reactors and jostling its lethal payload of unexploded torpedoes and 22 supersonic cruise missiles, still snug in their 30-foot launching canis­ters. Each carries a war­head packed with nearly 1,000 pounds of high explosives. 
In November, during the first examination of the interior of the submarine by Russian divers since the Aug. 12 explosion, 12 bodies were recovered, but perhaps 100 more remain entangled in the wreckage of the control 
room or locked in the rear compartments, where sailors fled the onrushing sea, then waited in dark­ness -some writing farewell notes to loved ones -for the rescue that never came. 
President Vladimir Putin, criticized in an emotional encounter with the families of Kursk crew members for the navy's inability to stage a rescue, returned to the Kremlin and told Russia's leading submarine designer, Igor Spassky, that the sub had to be lifted to pay tribute to the crew and to give proper burial to the bodies that could be found. 

AFGHANISTAN 
Foreign aid workers sent to trial 
Associated Press 
KABUL 

The trial of eight foreign aid work­ers -including two Americans ­accused of preaching Christianity in this deeply Muslim nation began Tuesday in the austere office of the supreme court chief justice. 
For four hours the mostly elderly judges sifted through evidence and debated the law as it applies to the eight aid workers -the two Americans, four Germans and two Australians. 
The trial closed despite earlier promises that it would be open to journalists, the and relatives of the accused, is expected to continue Wednesday and last several days at least. 
The eight foreign employees of Shelter Now International, a German-based Christian group, have been accused by Afghanistan's Taliban militia leadership of trying to convert Muslims -a crime that 
carries the penalty of jail and expul­sion for foreigners. The workers were arrested four weeks ago. 
Diplomats from the United States, Germany and Australia as well as the family members of the two jailed American women were not informed about the start of the trial. 
The eight foreign aid workers were arrested along with 16 Afghan staff members. It's not known when the trial of the Afghan employees will be held. For an Afghan, the penalty for proselytizing is death. 
Wednesday, September 5, 2001

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Business students make connections in New York City 
By MYRA McGRIFF 
Saint Mary's Editor 
For the second consecutive year Professor Claude Renshaw took a group of Saint Mary's students to New York City in May to give them a taste of the work­ing world. 
"We wanted the door at a variety of fields. However, since most of the 20 students who went on the trip have declared business as their major the majority of companies visited encompassed their concentration. 
"We went to the New York Stock Exchange and we saw how stocks were bought and sold," Renshaw said. "We learned how the Wall Street Journal is distributed around 

to expand stu­"Getting our names out the world." dents horizons was nice, and they [ com­Visiting six companies and of business," getting a glimpse into the work­
panies] were all helpful 
said Renshaw, ing world, students had a 
a professor in offering internships and 
chance to network and ask the business job positions for after we questions about jobs and intern­
and economics ships.
graduate. " 

department. At MetLife, an all female panel
"Since New 
talked to the students about bal­York is the Trisha Jones ancing careers and families. hub of busi­Saint Mary's junior Through the presentations 
ness, they can see people functioning in the workplace." 
The idea came from Jill Vitalic, chair of the business department, who set out to give students a look into the future by introducing them to large companies like NBC and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. 
Henshaw worked to contact Saint Mary's alumnae who live and work in New York City in order to students a taste of careers in retail, finance, investment and publishing. 
The trip not only gave students a foot in each company put together, stu­
dents like Trisha Jones, junior marketing/finance student, obtained a greater field of connections. Those con­nections, when followed up, give the stu­dents opportunities for jobs once they graduate. 
"Getting our names out was nice, and they [companies] were all helpful offering internships and job positions for after we graduate," said Jones. 
Contact Myra McGriff at mcgrO l 8 l@saintmarys.edu. 
Teamwork for Tomorrow donates $10,000 to Institute 
has challenged the Notre Dame community pursuing our goals of replicating our pro­ago with a small group of Notre Dame and
Special to the Observer 
to think in new ways about how we serve gram to serve many more children in South Saint Mary's students. The program empha­the South Bend community and its children. Bend and sharing what we have learned sizes trust, respect, purpose, affirmationNotre Dame's Institute for Educational The IEI is excited to expand our partnership with other communities and institutions and accountability. Its volunteers, trainedInitiatives (IEI) has received a grant of with them through this grant." interested in empowerment and after­and advised by a member of the Notre$10,000 from Teamwork for Tomorrow, Scott Cullen, cofounder and vice president school programming." Dame faculty, cooperate with the HousingInc.. to support a position of associate direc­of Teamwork for Tomorrow, Inc., said, "As Teamwork for Tomorrow, a program in Authority of the City of South Bend to
tor in IEI. 
our pilot program at Notre Dame has devel­which undergraduate student volunteers serve some 35 children. A nonprofit corpo­Joyce Johnstone, director of educational oped, the support of the IEI has proven tutor elementary school children from fami­ration, Teamwork for Tomorrow, Inc., wasoutreach for IEI, said, "Since its creation invaluable. Expanding our partnership lies who live in South established last year to develop and support three years ago, Teamwork for Tomorrow through this grant will allow us to begin Bend's public housing, began three years this and similar after-school programs . 

For nearly a century, the name Andersen has been synonymous with integrity. But it's the people behind the name that guarantee the innovation and quality our clients have come to expect. What really sets us apart, though, lies not so much in what we do. But who we are. 
Our strength is our people. Their innovation. Their conviction to do what they say. Are you ready to be a part of something special? Make your move. Forward. It's a great time to be at Andersen. 
University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Seniors: Come see us on campus. 
Andersen Day on Campus 
Tuesday, Sept 11th 2pm -6pm CCE Lower Level Drop by anytime. Snacks served all day; join us for Pizza at 5pm 
Take a few minutes to talk with representatives from Andersen -and take control of your future. Register to win a Palm Pilot and other prizes. Casual attire -bring a copy of your resume listing your location preference. We look forward to seeing you. 
Remember to sumbit your resume on line at GO IRISH by September 16th to be considered for our October 3 on-campus interviews. 
~ 

ANDERSEN 
www.andersen.com/careers 
©2001 Andersen. All rights reserved. Andersen is an equal opportunity employer. 

Wednesday, September 5, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Cullinan succeeds Nanni as Malloy's executive assistant 
wide range of responsibilities as executive including athletics and how public affairs tion policy at the J. Paul Getty Trust in Los By lAUREN BECK assistant, including service on Notre Dame's impacts us and even just starting to scratch Angeles and finally returned to Notre Dame News Writer budget groups and athletic board before the surface of a whole complex array of to assume his new position in August. 
taking the position in Malloy's office. This things development has to do," Cullinan "I am exceptionally pleased that we've 
Matthew Cullinan is the new face in the year he will help design the University's 10-said. been able to lure Matt back to Notre Dame," Oflice of the President this fall, succeeding year plan and will work on its execution. He Cullinan received his bachelor's and mas­Malloy said in a press release. "His deep Lou Nanni as executive assistant to also serves as the president's liaison to the ter's degrees in American history from knowledge and understanding of the University President Father Edward Malloy. athletic, development and public affairs Notre Dame in 1985 and 1988, respectively, University as a whole, the administrative 
"My goal is to sup­departments and communicates with other and returned to earn his doctorate in 1999. process and my own vision will serve us port Father Malloy to organizations that report to the president. He also received a master's degree in public well as we move forward on new and chal­the best of my ability His other duties include overseeing aspects policy from Duke University in 1990. lenging initiatives." 
and to make this omce of commencement and working on special Cullinan previously served as a special "I am delighted to have [Cullinan] back," of the president prujects as they arise. assistant to Father Malloy from 1992-98 said Chandra Johnson, assistant to the pres­responsive in the ways Cullinan does expect a slight learning and as assistant provost for academic out­ident. "His expertise in University opera­it needs to be to a cw-ve in his new position. ,,, reach from 1998-2000. As special assistant tions adds to what we do here in the admin­variety of con­"When you start any new position, even he reviewed University admissions policies istration office," she said. stituents," Cullinan though I've had experience at Notre Dame, and financial aid resources and recruited said. there is a real investment of time required. I new administration members. He then 
Contact Lauren Beck at lbeck@nd.edu. 
Cullinan assumed a need to learn about a variety of areas, served as senior program officer for educa-


Attenfion Class of 1002!! ! It's time fo relive your freshman Orientation glory days! 
TONIGHT, Wednesday, 7:30 p.rn. Class Dinner TACO BELL-all you can eat $1 Outside Alumni Senior Club followed by autograph signing spectacular T-shirts and makers will be pr>ovided for the first 200+ seniors! 
Ground-breaking professors unmask complexity of universe 
Special to the Observer 
Two University of Notre Dame physicists are involved in the discovery of a new fundamental difference between matter and its mirror image, antimatter -a finding that helps explain why the universe is not a giant void. 
John LoSecco, a professor of physics, was active on the experimental side of the discovery and Ikaros Bigi, also a professor of physics, played a key role on the theoretical side. 
James Cronin and Val Fitch of the Brookhaven National Laboratory in New York first detected the difference, referred to as CP violation, in 1964 as a tiny defect in the decays of particles known as "K mesons." Cronin and Fitch shared a Nobel Prize for their work. 
In 1966, Soviet physicist Andrei Sakharov, another Nobel laureate, pointed out that CP viola­tion might explain the observed excess of protons and neutrons over their antiparticles in the uni­verse. 
In 1973, physicists Makoto Kobayashi and Toshihide Maskawa showed how CP violation could be incorporated into the so-called Standard Model of the fundamental forces of nature. 
In a paper published in1981, Bigi, Anthony Ichiro Sanda and Ashton Carter pointed out that certain decay modes for so-called B mesons, which are 10 times 
heavier than K mesons, would have to show large CP asymmetries, if the Standard Model was correct. 
Two "B factories" -facilities that accelerate electrons and positrons, make them collide head­on and analyze the resulting production and decay of B and anti-B mesons -were built to study these phenomena. One is located at the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center (SLAC) in California and is operated by an internationalcol­laboration of scientists, including LoSecco, known as the BaBar group. The other B factory is locat­ed at the Japanese National Laboratory for High Energy 
Accelerator Research [KEK] and is operated by a group known as BELLE. In July, the BaBar col­laboration submitted a paper for publication showing the observation of a large CP violation in the decays of neutral B mesons as predictedby Bigi, Sanda and Carter in 1981. Two weeks later the BELLE collaboration published very similar findings. 
VISOR 
better than using your hand. 








Your hand is not a personal organizer. Your hand is not a GPS. Your hand is not a cell phone. Your hand is not an MP3 player. 


More than just a personal organizer -with optional Springboard modules, you can turn Visor into a phone, an MP3 player or any number of handy devices. 
?.r 
handspring­
O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 8 Wednesday, September 5, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR Noreen Gillespie  BUSINESS MANAGER Bob Woods  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR Kerry Smith  OPERATIONS MANAGER Par Peters  

Nl-."WS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIE~'POINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadter SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MAR¥'s EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX... : ......................................................... 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHJEF......................................:.631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE ........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VJI-."WPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinr. J@nd.edu SPoRrs........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. J@nd.edu SAINT MARv's................. ............................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PH0T0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS............. ....631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site ar http:llobserver.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, fearures and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies(music for 

minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 

advertise for policies 
online features for spe­

and rates ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 

archives to search for 
about The Observer 

articles published after 
ro meet the editors and 

August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Ediror and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present rhe views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Lercers to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be direct­ed to Editor in Chief Mike Connolly. 

I came to the Dominican Republic to participate in a nine-month volunteer program in September 1998 and have stayed two and a half years. Obviously I've found my service work to be a wonderful experi­ence. I would 
Jen Sushinsky 
encourage any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's stu­For a More dent to take at Just and least one year to 
Humane 

do some service. 
World 

So many people who hear about my work have said, "I wish I would have done something like that when I was your age." Don't be one of those people years down the road. 
I believe that doing a year or two of service is not at all "taking a year or two out of your life." Instead, it enrich­es your life. I feel blessed by this oppor­tunity I have been given over the past few years. It's helped me become more aware of the reality of the way a large portion of our world really lives, more aware of myself and areas in which I have grown and still need to grow and more aware of God's presence in the world. The experience has introduced me to a different culture, many won­derful people and many memories I will carry throughout the years ahead. 
I came to the Dominican Republic with three other U.S. lay volunteers to work in a Response-Ability project run .. by two SHCJ sisters. Our main work involved teaching basic literacy skills to the children from a marginalized com­munity of Haitians (desccndents of Haitians who were brought over decades ago to work in the Dominican sugar cane fields). Today, very few of these people cut sugar cane. They now have jobs in manual labor, truck dri­ving, households, etc. It is a very mar­ginalized community in an underdevel­oped country, making the people some of the poorest in an already poor coun­
try. 

For my first two years I worked with the other volunteers to teach first grade level work to the children. Teaching in general is a challenge. Instructing hungry children, who also live in the violence and poverty in which these children exist, proved very difficult at times. Encouraging the chil­dren to sit still in their desks and listen to the teacher proved to be a major accomplishment. There would be great days and terrible days. Even on the worst days, though, I still was grateful to be here and experience all I was experiencing. 
There were moments to never forget -the day a certain student left a large dead spider on my lap in a (fortunately unsuccessful) attempt to get a reaction from me; the day chaos broke out when a rat ran through the one-room school­house and all the students chased it around the building; the day a group of wealthier Dominicans threw a Christmas party for the children and the children didn't realize that the actual gift was inside the beautifully wrapped box they had received and were admiring. 
There are many harsh realities to face here -children skipping school because they can't afford the necessary shoes, babies dying of malnutrition, children receiving horrible skin-break­ing beatings by desperate parents. women being treated like servants by their husbands. It's a good reminder of all the blessings I've received in my own life and it's a good reminder that most of the world doesn't live the privi­leged lives many of us Americans do. 
Now that I'm in my third year over­seas I'm out of the Hesponse-Ability program and here on a grant l received to continue my work. I am living and working on my own. I'm continuing a mother's literacy program I started last year, tutoring our former students as they now head to the Dominican schools and working with the young girls in a youth club setting. Finally, I am working to guide and accompany these community members in the process to receive the documents they need to become recognized as legal cit­izens in the country -with the rights to go to school, to hold a job and to bet­ter defend themselves against discrimi­nation. 
I'm not especially great or eflicient at all these things, but the humility that my lack of efficiency brings has been very healthy for me and for my spiritu­al growth. Being outside of my comfort zone (which is one aspect of many ser­vice projects) has been wonderful for my faith life. I often might feel that I'm in over my head in a certain aspect of my work, but this can be the most beautiful situation. In these demanding times, I am forced to look beyond my own resources and to depend on God's help. 
I'll be leaving the Dominican Hepublic in the summer of this year, and I hope to be working with Spanish . speaking immigrants and refugees in the Chicago area upon returning to the United States. And I imagine I'll be back overseas in the distant future. 
The Center for Social Concerns' col­umn appears every other Wednesday. The author. Jen Sushinsky, graduated from Notre Dame in 1998 with a degree in government and international stud­ies. She has recently returned to the United States after spending three years in the Dominican Republic. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Scene  
Maribel Morey  Gordon Strickland  
Kelly Hager  Amanda Greco  
Justin Krivickas  Graphics  
Sports  Katie McKenna  
Katie Hughes  Production  
Viewpoint  Andrew Soukup  
Lori Lewalski  Lab Tech  
Angela Campos  

POLL QUESTION 
Have you or a friend encountered the date rape drug on campus? Please e-mail observer.viewpoint.1@nd.edu by Friday to report your answer. 

"The language oftruth is simple,, 
Seneca ancient philosopher 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Wednesday, September 5, 2001 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Chairs deem Flipstock successful 
As the three co-chairs for the Flipstock 2001 concert. we would like to express our thanks to the more than 3,000 students who attended the show last Friday night. Our goal, when we began planning this free music festival for the students of Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross, was to do in a big way what FlipSide does every weekend -provide activi­ties for students looking for an alternatve to drinking, whether it be for a night or as a lifestyle. 
Flipstock was planned for the first weekend night of the school year because we know that students set their social patterns early on, . and we wanted them to know that FlipSide and many other 
1

campus organizations reguarly provide options to the usual weekend activities. The efforts of many clubs prove that there are lots of things to do on the weekends. We are not against drinking, nor are we a club just for non-drinkers. 
FlipSide plans events for all students from all three cam­puses, and last Friday's con­cert was a perfect example of that. Students from all three campuses enjoyed the music of ­Nine Days, SR-71, and They Might Be Giants. \,Ve were estatic that we could provide those stu­dents with an event that they enjoyed. \Ve have received nothing but positive feedback from students who attended the concert. Even those who had never heard of the bands and hadn't planned on attending still enjoyed themselves immensely. 
When we first began the planning of this event two years ago, FlipSide as a whole got behind the idea of the concert from the beginning. At the time, we had very big ideas for what the festival would be, and we 
very much wanted it to be a success. There were times 
during the planning stages when we faced daunting 
challenges and difficulties and even considered giving 
up the whole thing. But we pressed on, knowing that 
the end result for the three campuses would be worth 
the efforts of all three individuals. Eventually, we came to understand that because of the size of the show, there was just too much for us to do alone. When we realized this, we decided to ask for help from campus clubs, orga­nizations and offices. Overwhelmingly, we received positive responses. Everyone wanted to see this show happen and they made commit­ments and sacrifices to the end. Without the efforts of these many 
groups, Flipstock 2001 would not have happened at all. So to them we owe the success of the 
show. 
The success of this year's concert gives us great hope for Flipstock 2002. We hope to have more bands, bigger names and more attendees. Granted, it will take more plan­
ning and greater sacrifices from more groups, but we know that for all the concert-goers who enjoy the free music and positive atmosphere of the show, it will be worth the effort. We hope to see you in 2002. 
Michael Rampolla 
junior Stanford Hall 
Sarah Hoshaw 
semor Le Mans Hall Amelia Marcum sophomore Holy Cross College Sepr. 4 

Seeing Red 
Upon a recent visit to the ticket office in the Joyce Center I was informed that all tick­ets alotted for the Nebraska game would be given to alumni only. I was disturbed by this decision given the actions of our alumni at last year's game. 
I for one know what it is like to walk into Memorial Stadium in Lincoln, Neb., attend­ing all six home games as a freshman. Yes, that's right I was a Husker. I am utterly con­fused at the ticket situation. 
I believe 4,500 tickets were distrubuted last year to Nebraska fans, yet nearly 40 percent of the stadium was red. Of course we could also credit this unmistakable sight to the fact the some Notre Dame students made game T-shirts in Nebraska school colors. However, I doubt any alum had time to buy these shirts because they were too busy sell­ing their tickets to Nebraska fans. I congrat­ulate the commission on alotting tickets to alumni only so that they may sell them to Nebraska students for a healthy profit when they arrive. 
Obviously there was no punishment for those ticket holders last year. For anyone planning on attending the game in Lincoln this Saturday you will be competing against Nebraska students who were not given stu­dent tickets. Once again the University of Nebraska cut student tickets leaving incom­ing freshmen for the first time ever without season tickets to all home games. I guess I should have tried out for leprechaun if I wanted to see Saturday's game. 
So good luck to the football team. I do not intend to hit mute to hear the silence in Memorial Stadium this Saturday. Go Irish. 
J.P. Curran 
senior off-campus Sept. 4 

Newly revised faculty sexual harassment policy overlooks faculty rights 
Notre Dame recently revised its sexual harassment policy. I write to explore the current policy's failure to protect the basic rights of faculty members accused of misconduct. 
According to Notre Dame, sexual harassment accu­sations can range from "sleep with me or you'll fail" type accusations from students to expressions of "discomfort about personal interaction" from fellow employees. Accusations against faculty are processed by the Office of the Provost. One found in violation of the policy faces discipline ranging from reprimand to a recommendation to dismiss for serious cause. 
Compounding the seriousness of such charges is the fact that even unfounded charges can sometimes ruin a career. With the stakes this high, basic protec­tions for the accused should be in place. At Notre Dame this is not the case. 
Faculty members accused of misconduct are given no right to even one hour's notice of the charges before being required to respond, no right to a writ­ten copy and explanation of the charges, no right to a formal hearing (those making the charges choose formal or informal proceedings) no right to question, directly or indirectly, the accuser(s) or any parties allegedly offering neutral testimony about the mat­ter, no right to hear the testimony of any involved parties or other witnesses, no right to call witnesses, no right to a transcript or recording of any testimo­ny, no right of access to exculpatory evidence (Notre Dame reserves the "right" to suppress such evi­dence). no right to an explanation of any finding by the Office of the Provost, no right to an explanation (even a vague one) of the standard of evidence or proof used in ·deciding if policy violations have First, under the old policy, faculty members could occurred. reject informal resolutions of harassment complaints 
Notre Dame could, of course, implement these (and demand formal resolutions). Faculty no longer basic protections without turning internal ::;;;;;.;;-i:!!! have this right. Second, under the old policy if issues into legal matters. Internal -.:::: ------charges against a faculty member were hearings for undergraduates . ~ not substantiated, the University accused of academic dishonesty, .,.. ~-agreed to attempt to protect the fac­for example, include most of ~ ulty member by taking "all reason-the protections on the above ·;:...;. .... , ' able steps ... to restore the repu­list without being "overly ;;:_".,':.,,~ ~ation of the alleged harasser if legalistic." .;.-... · it was damaged in the pro-
Faculty found in viola-ceedings." In the new policy, tion of the policy may ...---·· · · ·•. , ' this protection is nowhere to appeal the finding. . _.:c--.. · be found. 
Rights missing during 1 Why do Notre Dame's pro-the initial inquiry, how-, ,,: --· ~ i cedures fail to respect the ever, do not suddenly ) "'2A \ '--ll · i basic rights of accused fac­appear during the 1· ' \ .,~ J ulty? Though I think I have a appeal process. A facul-ti' 1i ~i;' pretty good idea what drives ty member wanting to ' ' / ,I, , the administration to imple­appeal might only know ; ./ I , I· ; .....~,, ment these morally deficient that he or she has been ._·./_ff ' -}j,.:t policies, I will not offer my found in violation of the / · · -' · I ti/} 1 view on this now. For now I policy and p~nished. Un_der .:-:' __ j; simply want to call Notre Dame's 
,>:.,/if<}:Notre Dame s rules. all mfor-• / / /,j'J' •• ., policies on faculty discipline to the mation about relevant evidence, ......--~~-/~-.-.~-.-:-,... ,/1~ attention of the faculty with hopes testimony and decision-making can ½-? ~--· · · that others will join me in speaking out be kept from faculty wanting to appeal ._·--·r•·e:::::....,,;..-for policy reform. disciplinary sanctions. It should be clear that these procedures are morally defective. Fritz Warfield 
The rewritten sexual harassment policy took effect associate professor of philosophy last year. Only two changes are relevant to the pro­Sept. 4 tection of the rights of accused faculty members. 
THE
OBSERVER 


Wednesday, September 5, 2001 page 10 
Following t 
Trends in new fall television .shows ride the waves of succl. 
By MATT KILLEN 
Scene Writer 
As the heat fades from the days giving way to cooler nights, Americans across the country are settling back into their couches and easy chairs, grabbing their remotes and finding out what new and exciting shows the television networks have to offer for the Fall 2001 television season. 
Several months ear­lier, when summer was nothing more than an anticipation, network heads and programming execu­tives preparea to announce their sched­ules for the forthcom­ing season. After ana­lyzing demographics and spotting trends, they rolled out their latest hopefuls for what might be the next best thing. 
With wacky come­dies, cop dramas, real­ity shows and fantasy action adventures, the networks are in a des­perate grab to find the newest hit that will secure a key demo­graphic for years to 

come. The Fall 2001 Survivor, the grandaddy of reality gameshows, kicks off one by one. TV season, however, with its third installment, filmed in Africa. Doctor Susan 
highlights more than ever the networks' search for trendy, sure-fire hits in favor of original programming. 
One of the most obvious trends this year is the rise of so-called reality television. After the super-success of CBS's "Survivor" and its sequel. "Survivor: The Australian Outback," expect a tidal wave of reality shows from all corners of television. 
CBS will bank on name-brand success with "Survivor: Africa" (Thursdays at 9 p.m. beginning in. October), the third in the series. NBC, coming off the 
success of "Fear Factor," will roll out "Lost" 
(Wednesdays at 8 p.m.), a show where three teams of 
two are dropped in the middle of nowhere and must 
find their way home. "Lost" will compete with CBS's 
similarly themed trek across the globe, "The Amazing 
Race" (see following page). ABC has "The Mole II" (Fridays at 8 p.m.). the 
sequel to last year's semi-successful show about a 
group of people who attempt to complete tasks for cash, despite the fact that one of them is a mole hired by the producers. Fox will roll out another "Temptation Island" (Thursdays at 9 p.m.). along with "Love Cruise: The Maiden Voyage" (Tuesdays at 9 p.m.), where single young men and women are placed on a boat where they will lie and flirt their way to riches. The WB will pre­miere "ElimiDate Deluxe" (Thursdays at 8:30 p.m.), where one man or woman is sent on a getaway with four members of the opposite sex, eliminating them 
Ohmer, an assistant 

professor in Notre Dame's American Studies department, feels the recent trend in reality television is a symptom of how much entertainment is out there. "I think people are kind of tired of the glitz and glamour Hollywood has given them. There's almost a desire to get back in touch with reality, an antidote to the simulated world," Ohmer said. "These reality shows provide the oppor­tunity for audiences to connect with what they are watching." 
Another trend rising this year is a new wave of fan­
tasy-action shows. Shows such as "Buffy 


the Vampire Slayer" (which switches to Tuesdays at 8 p.m. on UPN this fall). "Angel" (Mondays at 9 p.m. on the WB) and Fox's "Dark Angel" (Fridays at 8 p.m.) all have a youth-oriented focus. 
This year will bring "Wolf Lake" (Wednrsdays at 10 p.m.) from CBS, a show about a small town with a slight werewolf problem, and the WB 's "Smallville" (Tuesdays at 9 p.m.), a series centering around a teenage Clark Kent/Superman try­ing to cope with his superpowers. 
Dr. Ohmer, who teaches a class entitled "Television in American Culture," feels that this trend is born out of a desire to lure youthful audiences. "This trend is about the demographics, pure and simple. These types of shows appeal to the target 18-24­year-old market. especially young men age 18-24. Shows that reach these age groups can pull in a lot of advertising revenue for the networks," Dr. Ohmer said. 
Yet another trend rearing its head this season is a desire by big screen actors to take on small screen roles. This year, Richard Dreyfuss and Marcia Gay Harden will come to CBS in "The Education of Max Bickford" (Sundays at 8 p.m.). Dreyfuss plays Max Bickford, an aging professor who is passed over for promotion in favor of one of his former students, played by Harden. 

James Cromwell is also coming to CBS in a political drama called "Citizen Banes" Photo courtesy of www.nbc.com (Saturdays at 9 p.m.). Cromwell plays a for• Following up on his success as a television chef, Emeril mer senator who, after a surprising elec­Lagasse tries his hand at comedy this fall on WB. tion loss, returns home to Seattle and his 
three daughters. 
.., 


Competing for ratings in the highly contested reality tele 
photo before beginning their journey into the great unkno, 
There are even some big screen stars returning to television for sitcoms. Daniel Stern stars in CBS's "Danny" (Fridays at 8:30 p.m.). where he plays a recently divorced man who also runs a local commu­nity center. Jim Belushi goes to ABC with his own show entitled "According to Jim" (Wednesdays at 8:30 p.m.), where he plays the patriarch of a modest work­ing-class American family. 
Returning to the small screen can be risky business. While it works for some (Martin Sheen in "The West Wing"). it hasn't been so successful for others (remember Gabriel Bryne's "Madigan Men?"). 
Motivations for this trend may not be based so much on ratings and advertising revenues. "For some, like Martin Sheen, it's really the material that draws them," Ohmer said. "But with Hollywood looking for younger faces, older actors [like Richard Dreyfuss] look for alternate opportunities in tele­vision, plus the promise of a steady paycheck," Dr. Ohmer said. 
But just how steady is that paycheck? In general, trends tend to simply be just that ­nothing more than temporary and fleeting interest. One such trend that has seen its prime is the recent game show trend. When "Who Wants to Be a Millionaire" made its debut in 1999, audiences flocked to it in droves. The trend took off, with "Millionaire" pulling in over 25 million viewers nightly on a consistent basis. Other shows, such as CBS's "Winning Lines" and NBC's "21," were rushed into production. 
Two years later, however, these shows are long since gone. "Millionaire" is still around, but pulls in a far smaller (and. more important-ing your funny bone this fall c 


O
THE 
BSERVER 

Wednesday, September 5, 2001 
page 11 

he leaders 
~ss forged by hit reality shows and other popular formats 

Photo courtesy of www.nbc.com 
~vision genre, the cast of "Lost" poses for a publicity ,wn. 
ly. far older) crowd than ever before. The ABC show has also been pulled back to just two nights a week for the new fall season. 
"A lot of it was burnout. People got used to it," Dr. Ohmer said. "Also, it has to go with the nature of this particular genre. There was more expectation for nov­elty, so it wears off quicker." 
The motivations behind these trends tend to be mainly economic. With more and more audiences turning to cable, the networks are involved in a des­perate attempt to attract viewers. While the problem of losing viewers to cable is nothing new, this year presents a rather unique period of time for the situa­tion. 
"The networks develop programs advertisers bid 
for," Ohmer notes. "While they have been losing audi­ences for a while, advertisers such as dot.corns were willing to buy ads last year. This year, the advertisers aren't buying. So there's even more pressure to develop 'must-see tv,"' Dr. Ohmer said. 
Networks look to trends in hopes of cashing in on them. 
"The ratings differences between the broadcast net­works is minute," Dr. Ohmer said. "So they're only looking for shows that might push them over the edge." 
This is where trends become so useful to the ind us try. 
While trends off er an oppor­tunity for the networks to cash in, their ratings history is quite varied. As with game shows, some seem to burn out quickly, with only one or two shows surviving. However, the reality craze has seen a series of hits, from "Survivor" to "Fear Factor's" recent summer ratings smash. In general. net-works will throw as many shows to the wall as possible, hoping that a few will actually stick. 


Aside from the current trends hitting the airwaves, mainstay genres are showing no signs of death. This year there are a total of six new investigative dramas hitting the air­waves. Four of these will center around spy/undercover cop drama, from "The Agency" (Thursdays at 10 p:m.). a CBS show about the CIA, to "UC: Undercover" (Sundays at 10 p.m.) on NBC. There are also three new legal dramas hitting the air, like CBS's "The Guardian" {Tuesdays at 9 p.m.) and ABC's "Phifly" (Tuesdays at 10 p.m.). 
There's also the next cycle of half-hour sit­uation comedies hitting the airwaves. Ellen Degeneres returns to television on CBS with the innovatively titled "The Ellen Show" (Fridays at 8:00), while NBC will try to make another successful medical show in "Scrubs" (Tuesdays at 9:30 p.m.), a medical comedy. Popular culinary chef Emeril Lagasse gets his own self-titled sitcom on NBC ("Emeril," Tuesdays at 8 p.m.), where he plays a father trying to juggle work with raising his chil­dren. 
With the rise of trendy copycats, the room for original programming on the broadcast networks is getting smaller and smaller. Of the few innovative shows this year is Fox's "24" (Tuesdays at 9 p.m .. after "Love Cruise" completes its run). a show whose entire season takes place over a single day. The story is told in real time, where one hour of viewing is equal to one hour in the world of the characters. 
"Original programming is going to other venues like HBO," Dr. Ohmer said. "These shows [like the forthcoming "Band of Brothers" miniseries] can be very expensive and the advertising dollars simply aren't there." Because of this, the broadcast net­works shy away from these types of shows. 
So while the broadcast networks attempt to create, engineer and tweak their shows to attract the largest possible amount of people in the key demographics, America sits back waiting to be entertained. Amid the avalanche of shows. the networks hope that at least one will emerge that will prevent a certain question from sneaking its way into the mind of the average viewer: "What else is on?" 
Click. 

Contact Matt Killen at Killen.3@nd.edu 


O
THE 
BSERVER 


Wednesday, September 5, 2001 page 12 

By MELISSA RAUCH 
Scene Writer 
Kevin O'Connor has always had a strong fascination with reality televi­sion. 
When MTV debuted the first season of "The Real World" in 1992, he was instantly hooked. During his days as an MBA student at Notre Dame in 1997, he persuaded his skeptical roommate, Gary Moore, to check out the show -then in its sixth season ­and soon both were addicted. 
His love for reality television also influenced his more recent excitement over the tribal conflicts and immunity challenges of CBS's "Survivor." Still, though some have called O'Connor's love for reality TV an obsession, they never expected it would result in his participating in CBS's newest global adventure competition, "The Amazing Race," premiering tonight at 9 p.m. 
Touted as "'Survivor' on speed," the contest features 11 pairs traveling around the world completing various tasks to win (you guessed it) $1 mil­lion. It will not be an easy path for the contestants, as they have no idea where their next mission will lead them -anywhere from Australia to Africa. Since the program's executive producer is Hollywood heavyweight Jerry Bruckheimer ("Top Gun," "The Rock") viewers should expect non-stop action. 
"The Amazing Race" has many ele­ments to distinguish it from the pack of the fall season's other new reality shows such as NBC's "Lost" and ABC's second incarnation of "The Mole." 
CBS promises added drama will arise because each twosome has a pre-exist­ing relationship that will simultane­ously be strengthened and challenged as the partners work together. 
The pairings also allow viewers to root for their favorite couple: the grandparents, the engaged couple, the mother/daughter, the life partners, the lawyers or the attractive, single female teachers whose faces we undoubtedly will see plastered on magazine covers during the next few months -regard­less of how they finish in the game. 
"The fraternity brothers'' feature Kevin and his partner Drew (CBS does not release the last name), who met in 1984 during their undergraduate days at St. John's University in New York. 
In their online bios, they explain that money was not the only motivat­ing factor in the "frat boys"' decision to submit an audition tape to CBS. More importantly, they had "never been anywhere where you need a passport." It was an opportunity they could not pass up. 

The pair will not traverse the globe in style, however, as an extremely restricted budget will force them to get creative, and maybe a little dirty, as they move from one destination to the next. 
The spending budget was deliberate­ly fixed to make wit, strategy -and perhaps even some backstabbing ­the keys to victory. Despite the show's fast-paced, adventurous theme, many familiar with the show claim the men• tal aspects of the game play a more prominent role than do the physical. 
While strength and age might influ­ence a team's combined endurance or stamina, such as allowing a more rugged pair to sleep in a train station under a bench all night, the teams had to rely heavily on their intellect and ingenuity to complete their assigned tasks. In traveling, contestants have to manage their time, money and energy when deciding on modes of transporta­tion, ranging from a wide spectrum of options, including buses, boats and camels. 
They might also gain an advantage by misdirecting other teams in order to secure that last plane or train ticket. 
But all's fair in reality TV. 

The way in which teams are elimi­nated in "The Amazing Race" offers a final unique feature. Rather than the subjective voting systems featured on "Survivor," "Big Brother" and "The Weakest Link," merit and competition decides winners and losers in this race. The teams that lag the farthest behind are out. The winners of this contest, will truly deserve it. 
Although the show was taped in March, CBS is doing everything in its power to keep the winners a surprise. Each contestant had to sign a confi­dentiality agreement in order to partic­ipate. 
Fortunately though, Scene was granted a sneak preview of the show's first episode and it does not disap­point. The pace is energetic and the characters engaging. The Race does not feature aspiring actresses and singers trying to make a name for themselves, but real people who decid­ed to go on the trip of a lifetime. 
When they fight (and boy do they fight) it's not over how to cook rice properly, but how to make decisions in high-pressure situations. The interac­tions within and among the teams will also captivate audiences as rivalries quickly develop and certain teams look like they're ready to crumble at any moment. 
Viewers will definitely take sides quickly, and even without the Notre Dame connection Kevin and his part­ner are sure to be popular favorites. In short, they're absolutely hilarious. 
As each team introduces itself in the first episode, Kevin's voiceover joking­ly explains, "Oh, we're the ugly Americans. There's definitely the potential for an international inci­dent." 
When the teams are first released to begin the race, the 10 other pairs immediately run for the first clue. The frat boys instead take their time mak­ing it up the stairs. To be honest, they look like they had a difficult time mak­ing it to the site that morning after a long night of beer drinking. 
They continue to charm as they try to complete their first mission. While try­ing to read a map, Drew excitedly exclaims, "Zambia! That's where we are!" to which Kevin quickly retorts, "That's Namibia, Jackass." 
In a more lighthearted moment, a challenging physical task inspires one to shout to the other "Swing, you fat bastard, swing!" For the sake of view­ing entertainment (and consequently CBS's ratings) one would hope these two last for a long while into the game. 
Oddsmakers have already begun to speculate on which team will be victo­rious. Not surprisingly, the young, strong and intelligent "frat boy" duo top many of the lists of predictions. Reality News Online gives them 1-2 odds of coming home with the loot, but believes they will have strong competi­tion from "the Working Moms," as "Survivor's" Gretchen and Tina have taught America not to underestimate this strong demographic. 
Other early favorites include "The Dating Couple" and "The Lawyers." Though expectations of victory are not high for "The Grandparents," they will likely garner the sentimental vote. 
If all these features aren't enough for Notre Dame students to catch on to this show, they should enjoy following the adventures of their fellow Irishman O'Connor, who wears a conspicuous yellow Notre Dame hat throughout the episodes. Of course, there is one catch. "The Amazing Race" airs on Wednesday nights, opposite NBC's "The West Wing," which features a fic­tional Notre Dame alum, President Jed Bartlett, who has also been known to sport some Irish gear from time to time. Thank goodness for VCRs. 
Contact Melissa Rauch at Mrauch@nd.edu. 

Wednesday, September 5, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
MLB 
Beckett's strong debut helps Marlins beat Cubs 
on consecutive walks in the
Associated Press 
fourth. 

MIAMI Houston 7, Cincinnati 1 Josh Beckett's major league Hoy Oswalt has something to debut was memorable. go with his Olympic gold medal 
The 21-ycar-old right-hander -a Houston Astros' record for allowed one hit in six shutout rookie wins. innings as the Florida Marlins Oswalt pitched seven shutout 
beat the Chicago Cubs 8-1 innings for his 13th victory and Tuesday night. singled home a run Tuesday Beckett also doubled and night as the Astros' slumping scored as Florida won for the offense kept it simple and beat 
just the fifth time in 22 games. the Cincinnati Heds 7 -1. Preston Wilson had a three­Lance Berkman drove in 
run horner and Kevin Millar hit three runs with a pair of infield his second career grand slam, singles and the Astros also providing plenty of run support scored on a throwing error and for Beckett. a passed ball, giving Oswalt 
Beckett (1-0). the second (13-2) plenty of cushion to beat overall pick in the 1999 ama­the Heds for the third time. teur draft, struck out five and The first-place Astros have 
walked three. taken control of the NL Central 
Beckett signed a $7 million by winning 14 of their last 18 deal with the Marlins. then pre­games. They extended their dicted he would pitch in the lead to four games over the 2001 All-Star Game. Maybe he Cubs, who lost to Florida 8-1 on could have, but the organiza­Tuesday. tion didn't want to take any chances with his talented arm 
Pirates 5, Brewers 2 
-especially after shoulder ten­Warren Morris hit a two-rundinitis put him on the disabled double in a five-run first inninglist twice last season. 
Tuesday night that carried the
He started this season in Pittsburgh Pirates over the
Class-A Brevard County, pitch­Milwaukee Brewers. 
ing in warm weather through Pittsburgh won consecutivethe spring. He dominated the 
games for the first time since Bronson Arroyo (4-6) won for Buehrle (13-7), in his first full five walks -two intentional ­Florida State League, then did Aug. 4-5 and for just the third the first time since he beat the season in the majors, won for in 1 1-3 innings. He threw just
the same thing at Double-A 
time in the last 40 games. The Braves 6-3 in Atlanta on May the sixth time in seven deci­27 of 65 pitches for strikes. 
Portland. 
Pirates batted around in the 27. Arroyo spent much of the sions. lowering his league-lead­Valentin's homer and Liefer's 
He went 14-1 with a 1.56 
first against Aaron Levrault (6-summer in the minor leagues. ing ERA from 3.07 to 2.99. two-out RBI single put Chicago
EHA in 26 games. He looked 
9), who allowed four hits in the "It'd mean a lot, this being my ahead in the first, and the 
just as masterful against 
first inning and none over his White Sox 10, Tigers 1 first year here. I hope I can White Sox made it 4-0 in the Sammy Sosa and the Cubs. 
next five. bring it home," Buehrle said. second on Ordonez's RBI dou­
Mark Buehrle gives the
Sosa was O-for-3 against With one out, Rob Mackowiak Buehrle was corning off a 3-1 ble and a bases-loaded walk to
Chicago White Sox their best
Beckett. He grounded out in the and Aramis Ramirez singled. loss Thursday to Tigers' rookie Jose Canseco following an
chance at winning a title of any
first, popped out in the fourth Brian Giles walked to load the Nate Cornejo. intentional pass. 
kind this year. 
on a 97-mph fastball and struck bases and Levrault hit Jason "I still feel strong," Buehrle Heath Murray relieved and
Buehrle allowed four hits in
out in the sixth. Kendall, forcing in a run. said. "I don't think I've ever escaped a bases-loaded jam,
eight innings and the Chicago
Rondell White had the Cubs' Morris doubled off the right­been this successful. even in then allowed Clayton's homer
White Sox hit four solo homers
only hit off Beckett, a second­
field wall to make it 3-0, Craig as they heat the Detroit Tigers high school or college." in the fifth. inning single. Fred McGriff was Wilson hit a sacrifice fly and Cornejo (3-2). who had won Shane Halter's RBI single in
10-1 Tuesday in a twi-night
the only player to reach second 
Jack Wilson had a run-scoring doubleheader opener. his previous three starts, the seventh ended Detroit's 22­base against him, getting there infield single. allowed four runs, five hits and inning scoreless streak. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. ac che Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexc-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right co edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
new, never used, still in plastic. LOVE KIDS? for football/parent wknds. 5 rooms $235. 219-862-2082. WANT TO EARN GOOD$$ ROOMMATE WANTED: with private baths. $80-$11 5,LOST AND FOUND BUT ONLY WORK A FEW HOURS Campus View Apartments Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. PERSONAL 
60x30 desk 60x30x72 desk + office A WEEK? Private bedroom & PRIVATE Toll Road Exit #107. 1-800-418· LOST WHITE GOLD NUGGET chairs. 287-3373 ask for Cindy. Area family needs individual to care BATHROOM!!! Large kitchen. Free 9487. SENIORS: NECKLACE. for our two daughters Mon-Fri from parking. $282. 5/month. Contact me Senior Portraits taken until Sept. PROBABLY NEAR REGINA HALL Gently used loveseat + chair. 3-6pm starting mid-Sept. Mom at quw@nd.edu. 21. Sign up now @ AT SAINT MARY'S. Taupe w/ muted pinstripes; wood attends grad school in Chicago. Emergency call: 219-243-2383 TICKETS www.Laurenstudios.com while GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE. trim -'"Broyhill" $150 674-6150 Girls are fun and delightful! there is still space available. THIS IS INSURED SO WE WILL Transportation needed. PET REFUGE, a no-kill animal BUY-SELL BE PIO IF NOT SURRENDERED. Futon w/solid wood frame $500. Generous pay! shelter just 1 0 min from campus, ND FOOTBALL TICKETS Happy 5-month anniversary, Phil. I BUT WE WANT IT BACK, Krups cappucino & coffee maker It interested, please call Karen urgently needs FOSTERS and 277-6619 love you. Thank you for you. PLEASE. $70. Sony cordless phone & Stonehill at 272-5013. VOLUNTEERS for its cats and CALL 765-659-4928. answering machine $30. dogs. GA's 4 use, MSU, TN, WVA 271-South Bend Senior Hockey League 
HANDSOME REWARD. ~ZZ-Q222 ON CALL BABYSITTER NEEDED. Please e-mail webmaster@petre-1654 No checking allowed, Refs tor all NO QUESTIONS ASKED NEAR ND. FOR DETAILS CALL fuge.com, visit www.petrefuge.com, games, ISi sanctioned league. 
273-2872. or call 256-0886. WANTED-ND TICKETS 289-9280 Players of all abilities welcome. 2 Lost High School Class Ring WANTED divisions: beginner/intermediate & Chillicothe High School WANTED: IN-HOME NANNY needed to care ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED advanced. Men and women wel-Jessica inscribed on the inside ROOMMATE WANTED: Highly organized, experienced legal for infant. Must have transportation. A.M. 232-2378 come. Games on Sunday through Please return! Girlfriend will kill me secretary or assistant to Pl trial Experience with infants and refer-P.M. 288-2726 Thurdsay nights {no Friday or Please call 634-3580 Looking for a male or female lawyer tor new, spacious offices ences required. Saturday night games). Game 
rommate for house off-campus next to Notre Dame campus; hours Congact Dr. Knoedler at 631-4262 NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TIX times from 8: 15 PM on Sundays to at 822 N. Francis St. flexible; competitive pay and bene-or aknoedle@nd edu. FOR SALE 10:00 PM on weekdays. All gamesFOR SALE Close to campus. fits. A.M. 232-2378 P.M. 288-2726 played at Ice Box Skating Rink (less 
If interested, call 288-8249 Call 231-1868 and leave message. Seeking student for part time repre-than 10 minutes from Campus) This terrific one bedroom condo in sentation on campus for screen ND tickets for sale. Lowest prices. Student discounts available. Woodbridge Condominiums is close Seeking part-time Daycare provider Sitter wanted by professor for two print & embroidery company. Flex 232-0964 For information: contact Bill Lerman enough to walk to ND. Why rent? tor two childen. Granger area. boys {7&10) some evenings and hrs and flex pay. Call Dave at 800-236-5107 or Own this for $62,9001 Contact Own transportation required, late afternoons. 813-2113. GA Tix 4 Pitt gm 271-1654 bill @steelwrehouse.net. Season Prudential One Realty or Cherie References. Constable.1 @nd edu or 234-9597 begins September 18 and goes TeRoller at 284-2600. Call 277-1622. After school care for two children, 3 Buying some I Selling a few extra through March. Looking for captain 
Wanted by elderly couple a respon-pm -5:30 pm. Good pay! Please N.D. Football Tickets 219-289· to create ND Club team to copmete LOUD 3-way speakers. 125 w. ea. RESPONSIBLE, QUALITY CHILD-sible man or woman graduate stu-call Lisa 631-9947 or 277-8564. 8048 in league. Currently 5 ND students 12" drivers. $250 obo/pari. Call CARE NEEDED dent to drive our car for errands or in league. Mike 4-4695 in my home for 3 year old & 7 short drives from our home in ND A businessman needs football sea-
month old. Monday thru Thursday neighborhood. Wages per hour son tickets *GAs only* Will buy Just sending you girls a little roomie 
FOR RENT

Northshore Condo, 1428 Marigold 2:30 pm -5 pm. negotiable. 288-0074 individual games 277-1659 love -all tor the low low price of 
Way near ND, 1 bdr, 1 bath, LR, 1 Saturday a month. $114 ... have a good one, ladies! DR & kitchen w/ appliances. 1 car Own transportation required. WANTED: HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM-Wanted: 4-6 tickets for use. Seats garage. $69,000. 5 mins from ND. Assistant to trial layer with desktop PUS! do not have to be together. Call Hokey kapetes! It might be an early Call Doris at 254-1772 tor more Major in early childhood develop-publishing skills tor new spacious Mmmrentals.com Nicole 233-8513 night tonight! into. ment or child psychology a plus. offices next to Notre Dame campus; Email: mmmrentals@aolcom 
References required. part-time or flexible hours; competi-For Sale Navy, WVA, Pitt, GAs 654-Then again, there's still plenty of Beautiful brass bed, queen size, Call 288-6795. tive hourly wage. THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and 0168 time tor the printer to break. with orthopedic mattress set. All Call 231-1868 and leave message Breakfast Inn has space available 
page 14 

The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, September 5, 2001 
Who is defining the 
way careers are 
built and grown? 

Representatives from Deloitte & Touche will be on campus for an 
Open House 
on 
Wednesday, September 5th 2:00pm-4:30pm The Monogram Room 
Please stop by to find out what great opportunities Deloitte & Touche has to offer. 
Deloitte & Touche is an equal opportuniWfinn. We recruit, employ, train. compensateand promote without regard to race, rehg1on, creed, color, national or191n, age, gender,sexual orientation, marital status, d1sab1hW or veteran status, or any other basis protected by applicable federal state or local law. 
The answer is the people of Deloitte & Touche 
Iwww.deloitte.com/careers I 
FORTUNE.

Deloitte 
100 BEST 

COMPANIES§
TO WORK FOR~

&Touche 
) ) )1 
' 
I ) 
I 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME ANNUAL DRINKING WATER QUALITY REPORT CONSUMER CONFIDENCE REPORT 2001 
The amendments to the 1996 Safe Drinking Water Act requires each public water supply o produce a water quality report titled the "Consumer Confidence Report" (CCR). Following is the University's report. 
The University's water sxsc~m i_s <?perated by F_acilities Engineering. It _is a privately 
, Water Quality Data . .
owned public water supply. The Universny s system prov1d~ water to the Un~vers1cy co~mum­The table below lists the EPA s regulated and unregulated contaminants detected m the cy, the nearby C.S.C. properties, and Holy Cross Commumcy ~allege. Qu~~•~ms regarding_ C!1e 
University's drinking water during 1999. All of rhe contaminants are below allowable levels.
system or sampling results can be directed to Paul Kempf, Director_ of Ottlmes, ~02 Fa<;1l1t1es Building, Notre Dame, IN, 46556, phone 219-631-6594 or Mike McCauslm, Assistant Nor included in the table are the more than 150 other contaminants including pesticides, herbi­Director, Risk Management and Safety, 636 Grace Hall, Notre Dame, IN, 46556, phone 219­cides, metals, synthetic organic chemicals, volatile organic chemicals and others which were test­
631-5037. 
ed and nor detected.

There are currently five wells servi~ the water system. All are located on the Cfimpus proP.er. The water is drawn from deep aquifers that are adequately pr~tecced by substann~ aay 
Regulated at point ofentry (well) 
barriers that serve to protect the groundwater supply. We cfo not believe that our source 1s vul­Highest level EPA's EPA' s Source ofnerable to contamination. We are also caking steps co ensure chat our water source does ~ot Substance Detected MCL MCLG's Range Contaminantbecome contaminated and are in the initial stages of what is known as a Wellhead Protecuon Nitrate {ppm) 0.9 10 10 (1.5-4.0) RunoffProgram. This program assists in defining where the water supply comes from and methods to from fertilizerprotect the aquifers from future contamination. . . 
use,+septic tanks, The sources ofdrinking water (both tap water and bottled) include nvers, lakes, streams, natural deposits ponds, reservoirs, springs, and wells. As water travels ov7r the surface of th,e lan_d or thro~gh the Nickel (ppm) 0.0034 0.1 O (0.0009 -Pipeground, it dissolves naturally-occurring minerals and, •~ some cases, rad10act1v~ !flatenal, and 0.0034) materials natural can pick up substances resulting from the _presence ofanimals or from human acttv1cy.. 

depositsDrinking_ water, including bottlecf water, may reasonably be expected to contau~ at_Je~t 

Regulated at point ofentry (well) Continued 
small amounts of some contaminants. The presence ofcomammants does not necessanlr. md1­Highest level EPA' s EPA's Source ofcate the water poses a health risk. More i~formation about ~ontamina~ts and po_ten~ial health Substance Detected MCL MCLG's Range Contaminantaffects can be obtained by calling the Environmental Protection Agency s Safe Drmking Water Gross alpha (pCi/L)7.9 15 (0.1-7.9) Natu~allyHotline (1-800-426-4791). 
occurringContaminants that might be expected to be in source water (umre~ted water) include: Gross beta (pCi/L) 9.6 15 0 (0-9.6) Decay of• Microbiai contaminants, such as viruses and bactena, which may come from natural and sewa_ge treatment plants, septic systems, agricultural livestock operations, and manmade

wildlife. 
deposits• Inorganic contaminants, such as salts and m~tals, w~ich can be n~turally-occur 

Unregulated Substances 

ring or result from urban storn:iwater _r~noff, mdus~nal or domesnc wastewater Highest level EPA's EPA's Source ofdischarges, oil and gas productton, mmmg or framing.. 
Substance Detected MCL MCLG's Range Conraminam• Pesticides and hero1cides, which may_ come fr?m a_vanety ofsources such as Sodium (ppm) 49agriculture, urban stormwater runoff, and res1dent1al uses. 
Regulated at the User tap• Organic chemical contaminants, including synthetic and volatile organic ~hemi Highest level EPA's EPA's Source ofcals, which are by-products of industrial processes and petroleum P.rodu~uon, 

Substance Detected MCL MCLG's Range Contaminantand can also come from gas stations, urban stormwater n,:noff, ancl sepuc system_s. 
Copper (ppb) 280 1300 1300 (l.l-280)Corrosion of• Radioactive contaminants, which can be naturally-occurrmg or be the result of 011 90th percentile plumbingand gas production and mining accivicies. 
systemsSome people may be more vulnerable to contaminants in drinkjng water than che g~n­Lead (ppb) 6.8 15 0 (<0.5-6.8)Corrosion oferal population. Immuno-compromised persons such as persons w1tn cancer under_gomg 90th percentile plumbingchemotherapy, persons_ who have undergone or_g_an rranspfants, pe_ople with ~IV/AIJ?S or systemsother immune system disorders, som_e elderly, an~ •~fants can be pamcl!larly at nsk from 1_nfec­Definitions . . .

tions. These people should seek a_dvtce about drinking wa~er from rh~1r health care pro~•~ers. 
•MCL-Maximum contaminant level (MCL). The highest level of contaminant that 1sEPNCDC guidelines on appropnace means to lessen the n~k ~f mfecnon by ~ryptospondmm allowed in drinking water. 
and microbial contaminants are available from the Safe Drinking Water Hotline (l-B00-426­
•MCLG -Maximum contaminant level goal (MCLG). The level of a contaminant at which 4791). . d · k' h there is no known or expected health risk. 
Infants and young children are typically more vulnerable !o lead m rm ·mg water t. a~ •ppm -Parts per millwn. 
the general population. In general, ifjou flush y~:mr cold tap unnl t~e water ge~s.as co!d as 1t ts •ppb -Parts per billion. .
going to get, you will have eliminate the_potennal _metal concentration. Addmonal mforma­•90th Percentile -90% of the samples were below the number ltsted.
rion 1s available from the Safe Drinking Water Hotlme (1-800-426-4791). 
•_pCi/L -Picocuries per liter . . .
We have tested for over 150 par~meters ~egulate4 ~y the E~": and the ~rate of Ind~ana. 
Since 1993, the University has been granted a standardized Mom_ton_ng Framew~rk (SM_F ~),Included in these tests were metals, volanle organics, pesnc1des, herb1c1des, SOC sand cyanide. 
monitorin_g waiver. Due co the high quality of the water, the morntormg frequencies are s1g111f­icantly reduced. 
I 
I 
t 
), II 
Wednesday, September 5, 200 I 
The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
What Notre Dame must do to beat Nebraska 
1994 was my senior year at 
the University of Colorado. As 
the season progressed, it looked 
like we were a team of destiny. 
Rashaan Salaam won the 
Heisman Trophy, and Kardell 
Stewart 
connected 
with 
Michael 
Westbrook 
in the end 
zone to 
steal a 
memorable 
victory at 
Michigan. 
Destiny, that is, until we went to Lincoln to play the Nebraska Cornhuskers. After a devastat­ing loss, l was forced to watch as the Huskers rolled to an undefeated season and a national championship. We fin­ished the season by belting Notre Dame in the Fiesta Bowl, thus giving the Huffs an 11-1 record and a No. 2 ranking. 
With apologies to Dillon Hall, this was the genesis of my hatred of the color red. 
Fast forward to 2000. 
I'm a law student at Notre Dame now, but still unable to defeat the Children of the Corn. Thanks to the many greedy, dis­loyal faculty and alumni who shamelessly sold their tickets to the Husker faithful. the "House that Rockne Built" was trans­formed into a neutral site by a sea of red filling half the stadi­um. 
I watched in despair as No. 1 Nebraska squeaked out an overtime victory against an underrated and determined Irish football team. This 


Saturday, Notre Dame must 
travel to Lincoln to face the col­
lege football juggernaut that is 
Nebraska. 

The Huskers are 2-0 already 
this season, but clearly are not 
the same powerhouse that they 
have been in the past. 
This is my last year as a stu­
dent, and I've suffered long 
enough. Our time is now, and 
all indications suggest that 
they're ripe for an upset. In my 
years weathering the 
Cornhusker storm, I have 
learned how they work and, 
more importantly, how to beat 
them. 

First of all, it is important to 
understand the evolution of the 
Cornhusker program. Ten years 
ago, Nebraska was known as 
the team that beat up on patsies 
all season long, then lost 
against "real" opponents in the 
bowl game. 

Before 1994, Tom Osborn was the Phil Mickleson of college football; all the talent in the world, but still unable to win the big one. 
To his credit, he made two decisions that changed Nebraska from perennial also­rans to three-time national champions. 
First. in the Floridian age of four wideouts and pass-happy quarterbacks, he refused to change what has made Nebraska the most prolific offense in the 1990s: running the ball behind five behemoth lineman. 
There's a reason why you don't see a Nebraska tailback in the Pro Bowl. Mother Teresa could rush for 1,500 yards in a season behind those human bulldozers. 
Nebraska has also enjoyed an extraordinary lineage of stand­out option quarterbacks in the 


Canon ZR20 or ZR25 MC Camcorder 

last decade. Tommie Frazier, 
Scott Frost and now Tim Crouch 
have provided stability, play­
making prowess and leadership 
during a time when rotating 
quarterbacks is curiously en 
vogue. 
Second, Osborn injected speed 
into what was a stout but immo­
bile defensive unit. The Black 
Shirts copied Dennis Erickson's 
Miami Hurricane defenses of 
the early 1990s: a 4-3 align­
ment featuring two nasty, 
aggressive defensive tackles 
complimented by a pair of hell­
raising defensive ends whose 
only job in life is to maim 
opposing quarterbacks. 
Add to the mix three lineback­
ers who can run like the wind, 
and the overhaul was complete. 
The result was only three 
national championships in four 
years and a job in Washington, 
D.C. for Congressman Osborn. 
How, then, does Notre Dame defeat Nebraska on Saturday? Unlike last year's contest, where only 20,000 red-clad fans were present, the Irish can expect over 80,000 loud, proud Nebraskans dressed in red and hungry for blood. 
Save for Neyland Stadium in Knoxville, there is not a more intimidating venue in college football for a visiting team. For the Irish to pull off the biggest upset of the year, keep the fol­lowing points in mind as you tune in Saturday night: 
1. Keep the Nebraska offense off the field. Bad things happen when Nebraska wins the time of possession battle. The offensive line wears down defenses, and teams lose a slow, painful war of attrition. 
The Irish must rotate defen­sive linemen throughout the game and neutralize the line of scrimmage. The linebackers and safeties need to contain the Husker backfield and limit first downs. 
2. Force Crouch to pass. In the last two weeks, a critical Cornhusker vulnerability has indeed surfaced. Crouch is a marginal passer at best, and the departure of receivers Bobby Newcombe and Matt Davidson have left him without a "go-to" guy. 
If Notre Dame can repeatedly pin the Huskers in third-and­long situations, anything is pos­sible. Tight end Tracy Wistrom is a legitimate threat as a receiver and should be watched accordingly. Frustrate Crouch by forcing him to throw on the run and off balance. 
Oft-injured defensive end Grant Irons must play up to his yet-unrealized potential and punish Crouch's surgically­repaired shoulder all night. 
3. Don't turn the ball over and don't commit any penalties. This was a problem for Nebraska last year. They have played two games this season, and this is our first. While the Irish should be the team with the butterflies, they must stay focussed and play four quarters of disciplined, flawless football. 
Conversely, Nebraska must make some mistakes in order for us to have a chance to win. When they do turn the ball over, capitalize on the opportu­nity and score points. This all goes back to defense and spe­cial teams. 
4. Will the real Kevin Rogers please stand up? After four years, I personally think Donovan McNabb made Kevin Rogers-not vice-versa. His schizophrenic play calling has left me cursing one moment and ecstatic the next. 
I still don't understand his 

• 


; ~ ,--~
. ...,.--~-­
• A " ' ~ • 
I t I \ ' ~ ., 


r 
; 
-__,j 
obligatory first and 10 run up 
the middle that always leaves 
the offense in second and long 
situations. While I will credit 
him with the fantastic fake field 
goal option play against Purdue, 
the Fiesta Bowl debacle show­
cased his apparent inability to 
find weaknesses in an opposing 
defense and exploit them. 
Use all of your weapons, 
Kevin, and don't try to be 
macho and beat them at their 
own game. The Nebraska 
defense sees the best option 
offense in the country every 
day. and they will make you 
pay. 
5. You gotta believe. Do not be surprised if Nebraska jumps out to a quick lead. The Irish cannot roll over and get pushed around, because Nebraska will embarrass you. Notre Dame must believe they can win, and play as if there is no tomorrow. 
Wake up the echoes of former Irish greats Frank Starns, Chris Zorich and Jerome Bettis and play with heart, emotion, and a nasty attitude. The 2001 Huskers are not as good as they were one year ago, and now is the time to return Notre Dame football to national prominence. 
This will be my last clash with the Huskers as a student, and the stage is set for an awesome game under the stars in Lincoln. Notre Dame is at its­best as the underdog, as any Gator, Hurricane or Seminole will reluctantly admit. \Vijh the bitter memory of the Fiesta Bowl still tangible, this team needs to face its demons and respond to Davie's challenge. I have a feeling we'll do it. 
Peyton Berg can be reached at pberg@nd.edu. The opinions of the column are those ofthe author and are not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


Rio 600/32MB 
MP3 Player 

Handspri!YJ Visor Edge Hanctield 
Buy more. Save more. 
Buy any Mac and receive a free Lexmark color printer* 
(tax and other charges not included). 

Now's the time to buy your Mac. They're fast, easy to use, and loaded with features. Express vourself by creating your own iMovies. Use iTunes to rip MP3s from your favorite CDs, or bum custom CDs. Enhance your work with productivity and graphics software. And share files with anyone. 
The benefits add up-just like the savings. 

Save even more when you also buy these great products: 
Canon ZR20 or ZR25 MC Camcorder, HP 315 Digital Camera, Handspring Visor Edge Handheld, and Rio 600132MB Mf3 Player. For each product you buy, you'll receive a $100 instant rebate. 
Take advantage ofspecial student pricing. You can even get an Apple Instant Loan for Education. Buy and save online at the Apple Store for Education: www.apple.com/education/store, call 800-780-5009, or visit the Solutions Center in CCMB, Room 112. 
Offer good between July 18, 2001, and October 14, 2001. 
C Ml Ap/JI,~ me. Nl"l(l,t, ._.... ,w,i,. lb, ApfJ/, Jqio. Appl, llon,. M«, a,,,J "ll!att,,u,m,,·"" .,,...,,,.,.., a(,v,pl, c-po,,,. lftc.. ,.,,,__ltl th, CS ,Pfliotb,,-c-iModr is•-a/~~Inc OIJ,rc~a,,,Jp,otJ,,,.·rn-,..,,._.i,,,,,;,. -• 
""""""1tsa(lb&,r,p«nt~~ m.,,,111,,:-,Jfo,...,,,,.i.c-a1-...,..i_...,,,_,.,,..,,,.,,,.;,....,,,,,..llf«l,,,..pn;,,t,,,:, 


t : page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 5, 2001 
! 
I I~ 
I \ GUEST COLUMN 
: l 
I, 
I \ Nebraska can't come close to Notre Dame tradition
I 
' 
i 
~ \ 
I \ ., 
I\ 
t 
I \ I 
'. l I 
I 
I I I l
I 
!! 
l I 
I 
I 
I 
. 
I 
~ ,: 
I; 
I \ : ' I 
1\ I 
I 
,.,
: ! I ' 
I< 
I ,'. 
I 
I 
I 
f I, 
(' 
!l 
I,', 
i:,·, 
I 
I 
' 
~ 
! 
lj 
( 
' I 
~I '\ { 
r 
!Iii' ,· 
I 
), < : 
!I 
! H" 
), ' 
) j 
I 

>
/
I I 
I 
i 
I' 
INDIANA AUTO RATES 
COULD SAVE YOU MONEY 289-1993 
jdav~ond@aol.com 
John Davenport (near campus) 

"We have the best fans in the country!" Devaney proclaims. "Been a packed house since the '60s." 
"Oh, and who else are your fans going to cheer for?," Rockne counters. "Nebraska State? Your fans are definitely loyal, Bob, definitely a top notch tradition. But you've got a monopoly going there." 
"'What about you, Rock?" Devaney asks. 
"Got packed houses, and before that packed living rooms and before that had families surrounding the radio." 
"Well, we've got the tunnel­walk," Devaney says. 
"So did the Chicago Bulls," Rockne laughs. "And before you guys, I may add" 
"So, it's still cool." 
"Maybe," Rockne says. "But it's not beautiful. It's not like the glowing domes of 100 or so gold helmets packed in the tun­nel, gleaming in the sunlight. That's pure. That's tradition. Tell me, how can tradition involve video production?" 
"Well," Devaney says, "You may be right there. Hey! We got the Blackshirts, now that's a tradition!" 
Rockne pauses. Thinks. 
"Yes. Yes, that's good. That is a real tradition. In fact that's probably the coolest tradition ya'll have. Okay, that's one." 
"See," Devaney says, his chest a little more stout than before. ''We got some tradi­tion." 
"Well, you know what you don't got?" Rockne asks. 
"What's that?" 
"An alma mater," Rockne says. "You don't have an alma mater, and the last one you had was so bad your chancel­lor stopped playing it at foot­ball games. How can a school not have an alma mater to sing?" 
"Well," Devaney stutters, "We have a really cool band 
that they say is the pride of the whole state." 
"Well. our band marches across campus and into the stadium in front of thousands of roaring fans," one ups Rockne. "And they have an alma mater to play. Plus, I bet your students don't even know the words to their own fight song." 
Devaney knows the answer to that one. Not many. In fact, he knows that, by a good 10 to one ratio, Husker students can recite the Fresh Prince of Bel­Air theme song before their own fight song. 
From here, Rockne decides to go on the offensive. He's going to put this thing away. 
"Do you guys have pep ral­lies? No. We pack 'em in so tight every Friday night we gotta pay off the fire mar­shals," Rockne says. 
"Do your students and play­ers even know the other exists outside of fall Saturdays? Not at all. 
"Think of all the rest I could brag about. Touchdown Jesus. We're No. 1 Moses. Spray painting the helmets. 'Play like a champion today,' and the players saluting the student body after every game by rais­ing their helmets to the sky. I've never seen stuff like that with the Big Red. 

"Do you want me to go on?" 
Humbly and a little embar­rassed, Devaney can only muster a soft "No." He knows he's been beaten and that the great lore of Notre Dame foot­ball dwarfs his beloved Nebraska Cornhuskers. 
But Devaney decides he's not going down without the last word. 
"You can have all that tradi­tion in your program," Devaney says. 
"But come Saturday we'll still beat the crap out of you." 
David Diehl is the sports edi­tor at The Daily Nebraskan. the student newspaper of Nebraska University. He can be reached at sports@dailyne­braskan.com The views ofthis column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Attention Fulbright Applicants 
Students applying for the 2002-2003 Fulbright Scholarship competition should attend a meeting to learn the process for applying thr~ugh the campus committee. 
Thursday, September 6th 
4:00 pm room 117, Haggar Hall 
Ifyou are unable to attend this meeting,-information may be obtained at the Fellowship Office in room 99 O'Shaughnessy 
Bob Devaney and Knute Rockne walk together among the clouds and angels, and they're doing what any normal person does this time of year. They're talking col­lege foot­ball. 
The foot­ball coach­ing legends still have an enthusi­asm for the game that flows as if they were still bag­ging national titles and shouting down Heisman Trophy win­ners. 
And with the Notre Dame­Nebraska game looming Saturday. the conversation is beginning to get hostile. 
"Nebraska isn't good enough to wash Notre Dame's feet," Rockne professes. "It's not even close. A boat race, it is." 
Devaney argues, "Nebraska is everything Notre Dame is. I'd put my program's history up to yours any day." 
Oh what a losing battle Devaney has begun to wage. 
"Okay, what do you got besides a sea of red, two big screen TV's and some WWF introduction music?" 
Devaney goes on the defen­sive. There's much more to Nebraska than that, he explains. 
"We've won back-to-back national titles. Twice. And another in '97. We've set a winning tradition over the past 40 years that is unequaled. We're a winning tradition." 
Rockne smirks, cocks his head and puts his arm around his companion. 
"Look, anybody can win. So called "winning traditions" can be bought and sold. Anybody can have a winning tradition. All that's needed is the right administrative moves and some creative recruiting schemes. Just ask Kansas State. 
"No, lets get down to the real nitty-gritty. Throw winning out the window, level the playing field. Look at the little things that make up the support of a program; the gameday idiosyn­crasies that show up on Saturdays. That will tell you who's truly the best." 
Notasconfident,Devaney decides to further his battle on these grounds. There's more to my program than winning he tells himself. 
Let's get it on, they both think. 


... just come to 1st Source. As the area's leading financial instftution, we can offer you unparalleled convenience, competitive products and pricing, and a level of service second to none. 
Convenience • With over 50 banking centers and ATMs in the area, 1st Source is everywhere you might be. Visit our full-service office in the Haggar College Center at Saint Mary's, complete with ATM, or use one of our other convenient ATMs in the Hesburgh Library or at LeMans Hall. 
Internet Banking • With 1st Source Bank's Online banking service for students, BankOnCampus.com, you can check your balances, transfer money between accounts, and even pay bills. For all the details visit us online or drops us an e-mail at bankoncampus@1stsource.com. 
Electronic Funds Transfer • Expecting money from home? 1st Source can make getting money from home fast and easy by arranging to have the money transfered to you electronically. 
When it comes to banking, 1st Source has you covered. So save your prayers for a real crisis -like finals! 
Saint Mary's Banking Center • 235-2019 M-Th • 10:00 to 4:00 F • 10:00 to 4:30 
Wednesday, September 5, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
Joey Getherall. You look at the punt return Joey made against

Want to write Sports? Football Nebraska. I'd like to tell you we had a great blockingcontinued from page 20 scheme but Joey Getherall just
Call 1-4543 
could be used in any passing broke the thing." 
situations this year. 

David Givens adds another multi-purpose threat to the Irish attack. The senior wide receiver ran, passed and caught a touchdown in 2000. 
Last year, it was Notre Dame's special teams that sur­prised Nebraska by scoring 14 points. Nebraska quarterback Eric Crouch said they 
said. "That 
has been 

our emphasis this week 
because we felt that we lost 
that part of the game last 
year." 

Davie knows he must create a new surprise for the Irish this year because special teams can't be counted on for 14 points. Not only will the Cornhuskers be better pre­pared, but the Irish lost punt returner Joey Getherall to graduation. Getherall returned a punt for a touchdown last 
year. 

"It's going to be hard to have those statistics we had in spe­cial teams," Davie said. "What concerns me is you don't have 
Notes: 
. Davie will bring four fresh­men on the trip to Lincoln. Ryan Grant, Dwight Ellick, Matt Root and Carlos Campbell will all travel with the Irish. Davie said Campbell has the best chance of seeing the field but none of the four are expected to play. 
. The Irish 


are better "What hurt us last year purchased spe­
cial amplifiers

prepared was special teams. That 
to simulate
for the Irish 

has been our emphasis crowd noise
special 

this week because we felt and have used
teams this 
those amplifiers

year. that we lost that part of 
this week.
"\Vhat 

the game last year.., Davie said he
hurt us last 
has never
year was 
heard a crowd

special Eric Crouch 
as loud as the

teams," he Nebraska quarterback 
Irish simulate 
each day in practice. 
"We put a lot of money into a whole new system," he said. "You could have U2 come in on our practice field and they wouldn't skip a beat ... I am sure the houses in the neigh­borhood love us with all that noise coming off the practice field." 
. Davie still expects to rotate three players at cornerback this weekend. Clifford Jefferson, Vontez Duff and Jason Beckstrom will all see action Saturday. 
Contact Mike Connolly at Connolly. 28@nd.edu. 


. . 
,: ' ;,-• ' 
"I. , r, 
t 
~a!'~ 
:-t:r:i.8' ~a.,I. .;~{ 2~D ~O~ .. 
. . -please fill out this entry fo .. 
er;'.than'.Sep.tembcr 15th, 2001 to enter a c !ye~~rtl{;~f ~e haircuts with Atria Salon :• · 
1 
l~ V 

:;,f,, '.i'.l:,~·· •;,.µ:;:;!.:.~y~--:'_;_·.'-.-----------:--;~ 
t~f~! 7 ~~!pf!•f' ;;:
~' 

,; ~~::.::.:....,.;.__..;,_--:---,~~~~ 
..:: :;s:·tJ.. 

HeartBeat Records Presents 
l<IG 

EVERTON BLENDER ~~ 
Richie Spice and Spanner Banner 
!il~~~!1~i1q1i~!~,~~iii~:,I,' 
Wednesday Night The Alumni Senior Club is the place to be for. . . 
Senior Night 

with the famous Club Cup Special Come join your classmates and start the weekend off early 
$10 Lifeti,ne Menibership Special All Week!!! 
THE FACTORY 
123 W. Washington Must be 21 .·.....::,. (Downtown Above B.W. 3's) w/ valid I.D. 
Check out www.nd.edu/~asc for more info on SPECIALS 
You must be 21 years old with valid ID to enter 
(_lilli~t~rl,i~i~i\tiif~~l

~ 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 5, 200 I 
Shay 
continued from page 2·0 
swayed from his goal. 
On May 30. the fourth-seed­ed Shay embarrassed some of America's best runners, tak­ing his first-ever national championship in a time of 29:05.44, mor·e than 20 sec­onds ahead of second-place Murray Link of Arkansas. Shay's win was Notre Dame's first NCAA outdoor title since 1956. 
"It felt great when I crossed the finish line," Shay said. "It was one of my goals coming into Notre Dame as a fresh­man was to win an NCAA Championship." 
Shay's win was as much a testament to his mental strength as to his physical endurance. In 2000. Shay entered the NCAA meet with his time at Mount Sac ranking him among the top collegiate runners. But his opponents, many of whom were also com­peting in the 5,000-meters, went out slow, then kicked past Shay in the second half of the race. ­
"Before [20011 NCAA's, I told myself, 'I'm a 1OK run­ner. This is going to be a 1OK race from the start. Anybody who wants to go out slow, this isn't going to be the race for them."' Shay said. 
And wb.en the gun went off, Shay sat back for the first 300 meters. Then he noticed how slow the pace was. So he sped· it up, carrying a group of four or five runners along with...,. him. The other runners, per­haps seeing Shay as behaving like a "rabbit," chose not to try to keep up. By the halfway point, it was just Shay and 
Link. 
"I told myself that if the only person I had to beat was this guy, then I'm going to win," Shay said. "I was feeling great. I knew I had a better kick than he did. So with five laps to go I just picked it up and as soon as I did he didn't respond to my move and with three laps to go I had a huge lead on him." 

With three laps left, Irish head coach Joe Piane yelled at Shay, telling them that if he stayed on his feet the race was his. Shay did, and he took the title. 
But Shay's NCAA adventure didn't end there. The senior had also previously ran a qualifying time in the 5 ,000­meters and was scheduled to run that race two nights later. 
On Thursday morning, the day after the-10,000-meters, Piane asked Shay if he wanted to compete in his other race. 
'Tm like, 'You know what, I really don't think I want to,"' Shay said. "So he said, 'You don't have to answer right now, but tonight. And even if you don't know tonight, the race isn't until 7 or 8 tomor­row night. But on Friday morning, Shay decided he felt decent and chose to run after all. Shay's goal was to top Dan Garrett's 1988 school-record time of 13:35.52. But the first lap went out slow, so Shay changed his focus. 
"I was thinking, 'Okay, that's out of the question. What should my goal be now?"' Shay said. "So I was like, 'Okay. make All­American. From that point on I was just racing to make All­American. I wasn't really con­cerned with time." 
Shay reached that goal, fin­ishing sixth overall. Of the runners competing in both the 5,000-and 10,000-meters. only Stanford's Jonathon Riley, who won the 5,000 after finishing a disappointing tenth in the 10,000, finished ahead of Shay in the shorter race. 
When Shay looked up at the scoreboard, he saw that his time was 13:52.45. 
He had topped Garrett's record by a mere second. 
Shay's 13 total points were enough to give the Irish a 21st overall finish, even though Shay was the only male run­ner competing. 
Contact Noah Amstadter at amstadter.l@nd.edu. 


Preview 
continued from page 20 
games including three losses this weekend and a loss to Bethel Monday. Schroeder­Biek is optimistic. 
"Bethel's a tough team. We all felt very up after that game. I saw a lot of good things," she said. "Even though we lost, we really had a lot of successes. This is a new team this year and I saw a lot of things click­ing, like learning to work together as a team." 
Schroeder-Bick hopes that a lot of the problems the team had over the weekend and against Bethel on Monday were corrected in practice Tuesday. . 
"We haven't had the chance to practice the things that went wrong [after the weekend games]. We had three games this weekend, had Sunday off, and played Bethel [Monday] night," Schroeder-Bick said. 
She focused primarily on the front-court defense as well as game strategy during prac­tices. 
"We're going to talk a lot about strategy. One of the problems we had is digging a hole for ourselves," she said. 
Despite their losses, the Belles remains confident. Albion finished 4·0 last week­end at a tournament at University of Dallas, making them the only remaining unde­feated team in the MIAA. 
Past success against Albion, however, gives Saint Mary's confidence. 
"We were 1-1 against them last year and we're excited for the challenge," said Schroeder­Biek. 
Contact Lindsay Mollan at moll136l@saintmarys.edu. 

ATHLETIC TRAINING & SPORTS MEDICINE 
There will be a meeting for any Notre Dame freshmen students interested in the student athletic training program. The meeting will be held on Monday, September 10 at 4:15 p.m. in the Joyce Center Athletic Training Room 

N®irmra IID~rn mrccm,r~ SEASONS WANTED INDIVIDUAL GAMES Preferred Tickets  
MEN'S BOXING MANDATORY MEETING FOR ALL NOVICE BOXERS MUST ATTEND IF WISH TO PARTICIPATE WED SEPT. 5TH 4:00 PM ­4:30 PM BOXING ROOM, JACC ENTERGATE2  

CJ S 417 N. Michigan Str. 
"PARTY ON THE PATIO" 
Wednesday -9/5 KARAOKE / 10pm -1qm I $2.00 Night 
Thursgay -9./6 Ricky Joe LIVE / 10:30 -1qm .Friday -2/7 
LIVE BAND 9pm -1am 
S;atut-day -9/8. 
N.D. / NEBRASKA GAME 
KICKOFF7pm 
WATCH THE GAME ON 64" T.V. LIVE MVSIC AFrER GAME! All ''Out on the Pqtio" -Specials Every Night ­
-

Wednesday, September 5, 2001 
The Observer . TODAY page 19 
RYAN

B B
FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY EMUSED AND EFUDDLED CUNNINGHAM 


FOXTROT BILLAMEED MOM SAID I 
CHECI< OUT 
So WHEN GIVE ME TIME.

61\CK oFF, GUYS.'
SHOULD BE NICE To 
THE CUTE HUBBA­
ARE 'YOU IT'S A DtFFICULT

SHE'S M, SlSTER.'
'YOU AT SCHOOL. 
J~ESHMAN!_...., HUBBA! 
GOING To CONCEPT.

I 
"Dude, that's my 'Liquid Poop Cola'. My mouth's been on that. That's gross." 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Time to get 61 Great deal 1 Refusal to sharp? 62 Legal U.S. buckle 33 Overcome tender 6 How beef may 37 Market opener? 63 Uses digits? be served 38 The Company 64 _·_-Cat 
11 Brandy 39_Major 65 Shrek and designation 40 Argo, e.g. others letters 41 Question from a 66 Raiser of dough 
14 Not engaged confused 15 Smidgen astronaut? DOWN 16 Be distressed 44 Leaves rolling in 1 Previously said the aisles
17 Typical dervish? 2 Work out 
46 Sunday may 
3 Bonding

20 Catch 
have several of 
candidates

21 Wager in Monte them 
4 Twelve, maybe 

Carlo 
47 Office machine 
5 Rubs out

22 Where to see 
50 Tease 

Alain Delon or 6 White as a
52 Paper craft 

Genevieve sheet 
54 Jones and

Bujold 7 Tiny Tim
Smith, maybe 
instrument

24 Like cult films, 
59 What Miss 

again and again 8 It may hang by 
Muffet believed 
the neck

25 Get-go 
a spider might 
9 Bring

29 Emerge do? 10 Counties overseas 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
11 Consider ..,,,........,.,............,-!!"I worthwhile 

12 Military 32 Sore 48 "What the Butler 56 Queens place 
--+....+.,..._,.....,.....,,""' operation 

34 One of the Saw" playwright 
57 Fish captured in
-+~~ 13 Antiquated 

primal gods in 49 Soft 
pots
""'"4-~":"'t 18 Stating the 

Greek myth 51 Goes down 
obvious 
58 Part of S.S.S.:

35 " ... mercy on 53 " out?" 
19 Future bloomers Abbr.
such "· (dealer's· query) 23 Least brow• 
Kipling 55 Bide-_ 60 Suffix with Capri
wrinkling 

36 Khakis ~~~ 25 Must pay 
41 Becoming less 
_.......,__ 26 "Nah!" 14-Across Answers to any three clues in this puzzle, 27 TV's Hatcher are available by touch-tone phone:
42 Boxer Griffith 
1 ·900·420-5656 (95¢ per minute).
28 It brings traffic 

43 Hit the spot 
to a standstill Annual subscriptions are available for the ....+-+.....,""" 30 Expression of 45 Bring best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 pride? 47 Receipt listings years: 1-888·7-ACAOSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 
Name --------------------------­Address -------------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
HOROSCOPE  EUGENIA LAST  
_:,,  
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jane Curtin, Mark Chesnutt, Swoosie Kurtz, Rosie Perez, Jeff Foxworthy, Michael Wmslow, Foxy Brown Happy Birthday: It's time to start relying on others to help you reach your goals. Self-sufficiency is fine, but outside input can often lead to slightly different results. You have the drive, but be prepared for obstacles. Your  make your debut. 0000 ·VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You'll want to spend some time alone. Stress and worry will cause fatigue. It's time to kick off those shoes and relax. Don't let anyone make you feel guilty. 000 LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Disharmony will be upsetting. Don't let someone you live with ruin your plans. Visit friends; you need someone to talk to. Don't let  
numbers:6, 13,22,25,39,46 ARIES (March 21-April 19):  your mate put the onus on you; it takes two to tango. 00  
Don't become involved in other  SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):  
people's secret affairs. Problems  Deception and underhandedness  
with in-laws or relatives will  at work are likely. Stay alert for  
cause friction with your mate. You will have to be extremely  disconcerting news. Those you least expect may be behind the  
open about your feelings. 000  rumors spreading like wildfire.  
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your moneymaking ideas will be  000 SAGITfARIUS (Nov; 22-Dec. 2l):  
lucrative. Talk to relatives and  You're full of energy, so you'd  
friends about your intentions.  better find something to do. Out­ 
Travel will be beneficial but cost­ door activities will be favored. If  
ly. Protect ideas legally before presenting them. 0000  you can spend a little time in the country, you'll be ready to con­ 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20):  quer the world. 00000  
Involvement in joint ventures or  CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19):  
financial or contractual matters will end in disaster. Read the fine  Don't let someone you live with ruin your day or twist things  
print and check into the back­ around. Be honest. You can only  
ground of those urging you to  do so much, and after that, you'll  
invest. 00  have to see what happens. 00  
CANCER (June 21-July 22):  AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):  
Travel for business or pleasure will be to your advantage. Get involved in mentally stimulating  Look into a way to implement some of your innovative ideas. Talk to those who may be inter­ 
events. Your talents will surface,  ested in backing your plans or  
and hobbies can be taken to high­er levels. 00000  becoming a partner. 0000 PISCES (Feb. 19•March 20):  
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Orga­ Moneymaking inventions will be  
nize your day well. An ability to  good,  but  untrustworthy  
delegate jobs will help you com­ acquaintances may be quick to  
plete everything on time. Here is  steal your ideas if you are too  
your chance to shine. You belong  open about them. Mum's the  
in the limelight, so be prepared to  word.000  

t J. 
,.· 
Campus Sports 

\;
ii;
\' \;. . Guest column, p. 16 
'{ 
I~ Ii: 
-~ 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Wednesday, September 5, 2001 

'LP·: TRACK AND FIELD 
:H t! 
(j Shadow of a hero
\\' 
1h
;t;, *\
'' i\ Shay takes NCM title on idols old 
h
(,\, fil: ;;i, _stomping grounds 
. 
'r--t\ 
~} 
~ \. 
!.1 
{ ~I ')';'· },( 
iJ 
\',i
··1• 
't 
'.•, 
; 


I l 


Editor's note: After the most success!ul spring sports sea­son in Notre Dame history, The Observer recaps what happened after the spring academic semester ended. This four-part series will con­tinue until Thursday, Sept. 6. 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Sports Editor 
Ryan Shay idolized Steve Prefontaine since high school. He's seen all the movies, read 
National Sports 
. 
College football, p. 14 

. 
Baseball, p. 13 




FOOTBALL 
Davie hints at QB surprise 
Cornhuskers' first two games, Davie was in no hurry to give away his quar­terback surprise. 
"I want to give our football team every advantage we have to win," he said. 
Sophomore incumbent starter Matt Lovecchio seems to have a solid grip on the starting job but beyond the first snap things get interest­ing. Davie could bring in fel­low sophomores Jared Clark or Carlyle Holiday to spell Lovecchio at any time. 
All three' quarterbacks play similar styles but Holiday seems to be the most athletic while Clark has the strongest arm. Lovecchio, however, is the proven leader. 
Beyond the three current quarterbacks, Arnaz Battle could somehow mix in the Davie's quarterback sur­prise. Battle started the first two games in 2000 before breaking his hand and switching to wide receiver this year. Battle, however, only smiled when asked if he 
see FOOTBALL/page 17 


. SMC Volleyball vs. Albion, Wed. 6 p.m. 
OBSERVER 
. ND Volleyball vs. UCLA, Fri., 4:30 p.m.
SPOR 

on line classifieds 
. ND Women's Soccer vs. Indiana, Fri., 7 p.m.AT AGLANCE . Football at Nebraska, Sat., 5 p.m. http://www.nd.edu/~observer 
the books. Shay even has arti­cles about the former Olympian taped up on his bed­room wall. 
So last fall when the Irish distance runner found out that the 2001 NCAA Championships were to be held at the late 10,000-meter star's old track at the University of Oregon, he set a goal. 
"When I found out last year that the NCAA's were going to be in Eugene I was like, 'If I'm going to win, that's where I want to win."' 
Shay is now a fifth-year senior completing his final year of eligibility on the Notre Dame cross-country team. And Shay, who finished sev­enth at the NCAA's in 2000 after running a Notre Dame­record and Olympic trial-qual­ifying 28:26 in the 10,000­meters at the Mount Sac Relays in California, never 
see SHAY/page 18 

By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Sports Writer 
Bob Davie open his lunch bag Tuesday and found a few surprises: a peanut butter and jelly sandwich, a Pop Tart, some Gummi Bears and a banana. Apparently his wife had switched her hus­band and son Clay's lunches. 
Just after lunch, Davie hinted that he might have his own surprise to spring on 
Frank  Solich  and  the  
Cornhuskers Satur day.  
When  asked  how  he  

planned on using his quar­terbacks in the first game of the year, Davie smiled and gave away little. 
"We certainly have a plan right now," Davie said about his quarterback plans for Saturday. "Our players know the plan. But I don't think it's in my best interests or the team's best interests to dis­close that right now. I think you'll know how it unfolds in the first game." 
After watching Solich tip his hand a bit in the 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles begin MIAA play 
coach Julie Schroeder-Bick. 

. Young squad 
Despite the youth of thebrings 1-4 r:ecord Belles, Schroeder-Bick feels into Albion they are prepared for their conference opener against Albion today. The Belles
By LINDSAY MOLLAN 
opened their season with a l • 

Spores Writer 
4 record against non-confer­ence opponents.

Saint Mary's brings a com­
"We're in a good point with 

pletely 
five match­

different 
es undervolleyball "One ofthe problems we've our belt. 
team to 
MIAA had is digging a hole for They have 
prepared

play this ourselves.·· 
us for 

y e a r . 
Albion

With only 
Julie Schroeder-Biek Wednesday

f o u r 
night," said
coach

returning 
Schroeder-

players, 
Biek.

the team 
Even though the Belles have 

consists primarily of fresh­
lost four of their first five 

men. "It's a totally different game see PREVJEW/page 18 for us this year," says head 







