

Motorcycle gunmen kill Muslims Homecourt advantage?
Police said 10 minortiy Shiite Muslims and 
A Notre Dame alumnus criticizes Notre Dame's 
Monday

two police offers were killed as gunmen on 
student section at men's basketball games 

motorcyles rampaged through a Pakistan city. 
and encourages students to liven up. 
MARCH 5,

News . page 5 
Viewpoint . page 9 
2001 

THE 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Financial aid ai01s to help students, soIDeti01es falls short 
VOL XXXIV NO. 100 

Task Force investigates ND, WRC 
By CHRISTINE KRALY 
Associate News E<litor 
After a morning meeting dis­cussing the issue. the University's Task Force on Anti­Sweatshop Initiatives made a recommen­
dation Friday to University Preside n·t Father Edward Malloy on whether or not to join the Workers 

R i g h t s Hoye Consortium (WRC). 
The task force is not releasing their recommendation until Malloy announces his decision. scheduled for March 8. Task force members are appointed to give advice directly t-o Malloy and will not share their recom­mendations until after he has a chance to look them over, said task force chair Bill Hoye. 
The WRC is a group of 67 col­leges and universities working as a watchdog to fight factory sweatshop conditions. 
Task force members met Friday morning to decide on a recommendation and submitted their proposal later that day. Two members of the group were 
By ALYSON TOMME 
News Writer 
Last Wednesday's deadline for the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) forced some students to think about paying for next year's tuition. 
Financial information from the FAFSA will help the Notre 'Dame and Saint Mary's financial aid offices with a daunting responsibili­ty -fairly distributing mil­lions of dollars of financial aid from federal and private sources. 
"The University is really looking to help students," said Sue Brandt, associate director of financial aid at Notre Dame. 
But despite the efforts of administrators, the applica­tion and distribution systems confuses many students. 
"It [financial aid} makes college affordable, but at the same time it can be deceiv­ing." said sophomore Joe Golden. 
Seventy-five percent of Notre Dame students and more than 72 percent of 

Saint Mary's students receive some sort of financial assis­tance, but some students merely follow the process without understanding it. 
"I think it's very confusing, definitely," said Saint Mary's freshman Jennifer DeWitt. 
Notre Dame junior Jen Guimaraes agrees. 
"Financial aid allows me to be here. It is an entity in itself, kind of like God. I know it exists, but not how it works," she said. 
To apply for financial assistance, students are required to fill out the FAFSA. and also the College Scholarship Service PROFILE application. These forms help determine what each family can contribute to the cost of the applicant's educa­tion. 
Factors such as income, assets, family size and other siblings in college or private education are considered when deciding a family's ability to pay college costs. Since changes in these fac­ta rs can occur, students must apply annually for aid. 
see FAFSA!page 6 

unable to attend the meeting, Hoye said, but enough voting members were present to make a recommendation. 
There are several non-voting members on the task force, including corporate members adidas, Champion and Follett,· which services the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
"We're a Catholic university, and if we're going to strive to represent our beliefs and live up to our mission statement, it's important we're [in an organi­zation that promotes our goal]," said Sarah Greeman, a member of the Progressive Student Alliance (PSA). 
The PSA has lobbied for Notre Dame to join the 67 other schools that are WRC members through protests, informational meetings and petitions. 
"As far as I know. there are only a couple problems the University has [with joining the WRCJ," said Greeman. One problem is financial, she said, noting that the task force is allotted a certain amount of money and much of that money is currently going to FLA dues. 
Members of the WRC pay dues equal to 1 percent of that school's licensing revenues. The University doesn't produce its own apparel, Hoye said, there­fore money is made from licens­ing the Notre Dame trademark to apparel manufacturers. 
Notre Dame is usually ranked first or second in the country in licensing revenues, Hoye added. 
"It's a very hard time because it's midterm week," Greeman said of the task force's meeting. She called the meeting and Malloy's decision date "really bad timing" since spring break will leave few students on cam­pus to lobby for the WRC. 
The task force was appointed by Malloy two years ago to investigate Notre Dame's rela­tionship with sweatshop apparel manufacturing and to make rec­ommendations to Malloy regarding plans of action. 
Task force members met almost a year ago to start gath­ering information about the WRC. Since then the group has had numerous meetings regard­ing joining the consortium, one with the WRC Feb. 5. The group paid to fly members of the WRC to campus for the meeting. 
After learning of the task force's talk, the PSA had an emergency meeting Friday afternoon to discuss a plan of action in convincing the University to join the WRC. Since the task force just advises and it is Malloy's final decision whether or not to join, PSA members figured they still have 
see WRC/page 4 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



Holy Cross student dies of meningitis 
. Notre Dame and SMC health services offers medical aid 
By ERIN PIROUTEK 
•
Associate News Editor 

Jenny Nemeth, a Holy Cross student, died late Friday morning at St. Joseph Regional Medical Center from a type of bacterial meningitis. 
"She was fine a week ago and all of a sudden in two days she's gone," said Notre Dame junior Erin Formica, Nemeth's friend. 
Stephanie Nemeth. Jenny's twin sister, is a junior at Notre Dame. 
"Jenny was so good. She was always looking for what was best for everyone -for Stephanie especially," said Formica. 
Bacterial meningitis is contagious and progresses rapidly if not swiftly treated. Death occurs in approxi­mately 10 percent of cases or approximately 300 Americans annually. 
'.'We're prepared to handle a situation like this when it occurs," said Annie Thompson, director of Notre Dame Health Services. 
Symptoms are initially similar to those of the flu and include fever, nausea, severe headache, mental alter­ation and rashes. 
The disease is transmitted through direct exposure to oral or nasal secretions, for example sharing eating utensils or kissing. Merely being in the same room as someone with bacterial meningitis is not a risk. 
"It isn't as contagious as a cold," said Thompson. 
Health services at both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
see MENINGITIS/page 7 page2 The Observer . INSIDE Monday, March 5, 200 I 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Babies are the smartest people 
One video has unlocked all the secrets. 

Watching it made me discover riches and solve mysteries that plague me every day. Life and all its puzzles were now clear­er. 
Not the JFK-Zabruder Christine Kraly film. Not "It's a Wonderful Life." 
It was the Joseph Robert Associate Walls debut -a home News Editor video of my roommate Liza's first nephew. 
lt had to be one of my worst days -so many papers to write, so many hours to work. Down from the pile of job applications and realizing graduation is three months away, l headed home facing a sad six hours of sleep until the next day of troubles. 
But one look at Joseph with kittens covering his jumper and cat ears on his little head made all those problems disappear. 
I'm the kind of person who loathes "cute." Everyone who knows me knows l have a bitter, sarcastic sense of humor. I scoff at people who cry at movies -poor Saps. And 1 feel sorry for those couples who call each other "Cupcake'' or "Schmoopy Woopy." 
But as soon as I saw Liza's sister lying on her couch, Joseph asleep on her chest, "Schmoopy Woopy" didn't sound so bad. (Well, it still sound­ed bad, but I might have been more willing to say it). For some reason, hearing "Joseph goes poopy" was now music to my ears. 
All sarcasm in my mind melted and I became like all those people I pity when they speak in baby babble. Time seemed to vanish and I wait­ed to see what Joseph would do next. The next scene could bring a new rocker. another burp, maybe even new animal print pants and socks! 
All of a sudden all those things I had to do didn't matter. Five hours of sleep? Who cares ­Joseph might drool again in this next take. Fifteen minutes of VI IS had turned my whole day around. I l,wgh now just thinking of those outfits. What do we do to children? Why is infancy an okay age to dress up as a cat on an everyday basis? When was the last time you saw a grown man wearing a shirt with choo-choo trains? Half the mason adults are always smiling when they see babies is because they're laughing at their clothes. 
I was in utter awe and admiration of Joseph. 

Babies became the smartest people in the world 
to me -they throw up, they sleep all the time, 
lhcy pee in their pants and people adore them 
for it. 
What is their secret? 
Maybe it's because they know something we 

don't. Maybe it's because they know life is more 
precious than deadlines and job fairs. Maybe it's 
because they have perspective on life. 
{It could be because they can't scream "Are 

you kidding me with those paw prints?") 
But whatever makes them so carefree, so will­
ing to look like a bunny rabbit and go out in pub­
lic, I envy them. 
More than that, I envy Liza. She's got the 
greatest of spring break plans. 
What could be a better escape from the fren­
zied, stress-lilied days of college life than hang­
ing out with the baby dressed as a Calico, whose 
only worry is whether to nap before or after 
watching "Blue's Clues?" 
They consist simply of spending a week chang­
ing diapers, wiping drool and making goo-goo 
sounds. 
Jcan't imagine a nicer seven days. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



TODAY'S STAFF 

News 
Laura Rompf Scene Nicole Haddad C. Spencer Beggs Andrew Thagard Graphics 
Sports Katy Hall Brian Kessler Lab Tech Viewpoint Amanda Gn:co 
Ben Dillon 
The Ob,m,r (USl'S 5~9 l-4000) is published Monda)' ,hrough Friday except durwg ex.am a11d vaca1ion pmoJs. The Obso(Vec i, a mcml,cc of the Associated l'reu, All rcproductio11 righu "'< reserved. 

THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS  
Monday  Tuesday  Wednesday  Thursday  
. Symposium: "The Living  . Concert: "Sabella," Celtic  . Lecture: "The New Role  . lecture: "U.S.  
Wage in the Global  Jazz Trio, Llttle Theatre,  of Business in Society,"  Antidumping Petitions and  
Economy," Darcy  Moreau, 7:30 p.m.  Dan and Rosemary Kelly,  the Threat of Retaliation,"  
Tromanhauser and Tara  . Seminar: "Moral  Rose Hill Center, Professor  Bruce Blonigen. University  
Gruzen,cosponsoredbythe  Exemplars in Women's  John Boatright, Loyola  of Oregon, Room C-103,  
Anti-Sweatshop Task  Sport," Brenda Light  University, Jordan  Hesburgh Center,  
Force, Auditorium,  Bredemeier, Decio Hall,  Auditorium, Mendoza  Sponsored by Kellogg  
Hesburgh Center, 7p.m.  Room 131. 12:15 p.m.  College of Business 4:15 p.m.  Jnstitute, 4:15 p.m.  

Compiled from U-Wire reports


OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Groups to discourage enrollment in UC system 
BERKELEY, Calif. repealed." 
Students from University of 
An eight-student panel repre­
California-Berkeley's recruitment senting the California Statewide 
and retention centers have said Affirmative Action Coalition said 
they will actively discourage stu­the university failed tu maintain 
dents from attending the universi­diversity without affirmative 
ty until the UC system overturns action, citing statistics showing a 
the ban on affirmative action. decline in diversity since the use of Members of the underrepresent­race preferences has been banned 
ed minority recruitment and reten­in admissions procedures. 
tion centers on campus said at a Panelists said their time and 
press conference Thursday that effort in these organizations con­they are tired of the "false adver-tribute significantly to maintaining .tisement" that depicts UC Berkeley the minority representation on UC 
as racially diverse. a UC Berkeley Latino group. campuses. 
"We've been forced to make a "Evety recruitment and retention "Despite our efforts to maintain 
decision that goes against our own center [at UC Berkeley] has made diversity at the university, we have 
efforts to recruit students of color the decision to activefy discourage been unable to do so because of 
to the university, but we've been students from attending the standing policies of this university, mainly [the ban on affirmative
left with no choice," said Alma University of California at Berkeley action]." Hernandez said.
Hernandez, representing MEChA, until SP-1 and SP-2 have been 
KENTUCKY STATE UNIVERSITY 
Censorship case reaches resolution 
LEXINGTON, Ky. 
A 13-judge panel, in an en bane proceeding, set­tled issues Wednesday in the Kentucky State University yearbook case. The case centers around the censorship of the 1992-93 and 1993-94 KSU yearbook, the Thorobred. Administrators refused to distribute the yearbook because of its content and quality. In January, the U.S. 6th Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that KSU had violated the First Amendment by refusing its distribution. Part of Wednesday's decision dealt with the manner in which the 717 yearbooks would be distributed. Bruce Orwin, one of the Somerset lawyers who han­dled the case, said the yearbooks will be mailed at KSU's expense to the alumni who were supposed to receive them. Students at KSU pay an $80 student activities fee that guarantees they receive a year­book. Orwin said if the forwarding addresses are incorrect, the books will go back to KSU. The univer­sity must contact 90 percent of the alumni. 
UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON 
Students settle down after quake 
SEATTLE 
Those returning to campus at the University of 
Washington on Thursday morning found nearly every­
thing back to normal. including class times. The only 
exceptions Thursday being the superficial cracks in some 
walls the closure of a few buildings, including Schmitz 
Hall and the T-wing of the Health Sciences building. 
Schmitz Hall was declared officially off-limits within 
hours of Wednesday's quake, and several student service 
offices had to react quickly to serve student needs. "We 
didn't find out until 9 p.m. [Wednesday) night that 
Schmitz was closed," said Huth Johnston, assistant con­
troller for student fiscal services. Starting at 7 a.m. 
Thursday, signs were posted noting the Schmitz closing. 
An hour later, Johnston and Ken Haines, manager of stu­
dent accounts, decided to relocate the office elsewhere. 
The Student Accounts Office deals mainly with tuition 
payments and financial aid. "You don't know what's 
going to happen until the last minute," Johnston said. 
"But we wanted to have some type of skeleton crew." 
NATIONAL WEATHER 

LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather* forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather«> forecast for noon, Monday, March 5. 
H L 
Tuesday ~ 50 30 Wednesday ~ 48 33 Thursday ~45 28 
....-,,.-A-.a.. ......... 

COLD WARM STATIONARY
Friday ~ 38 26 
C ~1 AccuWea.ther, Inc 
Ptff1urw: 

® © DCJ[TI] ... 
High Low Sbow•r• Rain T-•loma Flurr..• Soow le• Sunny Pl, Cloudy Cloudy

Saturday ~42 31 
V,. Aanodllled Pro&J 

Atlanta 49 27 Las Vegas 60 47 Portland 59 41 Baltimore 36 28 Memphis 49 28 
Sacramento 62 47 Boston 33 27 Milwaukee 26 21 St Louis 38 20
Q,~-~9.GQ (f ~ u 
Chicago 29 22 New York 34 30 Tampa 65 44 
Showers T-slorms Rain FTurriss Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy C/Oudy Washingon, DC 39 30
Houston 72 47 Philadelphia 36 29 
V,a AQOC/atad Pmsa 0,aphicaN•t 

Monday, March 5, 200 I 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Professors discuss cloning at National Bioethics Conference 
"This is a set-up for genocideBy HILARY BURN and it is not clear who will win." 
News Wrirer 
Before refuting any of these 
arguments, Pence raised three 
At the third National of his own in favor of cloning. Undergraduate Bioethics His first argument was that Conference held this weekend at cloning has negative connota­Notre Dame, Greg Pence, a pro­tions due to myths. One example foss or at the University of of such a myth is cloning is like Alabama at Birmingham, and xeroxing a person and produces
George Annas, a professor at the abnormal mutations, which has 
Boston University Schools of been perpetuated in the media Medicine and Public Health over the last 25 years. debated the bioethics involved "Anytime you hear about with cloning. cloning, the scientists have bad 
"It's very tough to say anything motives. Even if they have goodpositive about cloning,'.' said motives, something terrible hap­Pence, "There are no killer pens, like in Jurassic Park," said arguments on either side of the Pence. "I reread all of the old X­cloning debate," said Pence. Files scripts and I found a lot of 
Annas agreed with this state­bad cloning stories." ment, but also presented his As another example, Pence three major arguments against made reference to the media's cloning within his lecture on the portrayal of Rael, a leader of a article about cloning that endedbioethics of the human genome cult. Rael claims that he was vis­
up in Wired magazine this
project. ited by little green men in 1977 month with the misleading titleFirst, "cloning should not be and that these aliens told him "You Again". 
done for lots of that they had Alexander "is an example of a 
reasons, but created humans 
free-lance writer sensationaliz­
"This is a set-up for 

basically it is as an experiment ing an issue to boost magazine
inherently bad . genocide and it is not and explained 
sales, so he gets paid more,"
for the child," how to clone
clear who will win. ,, said Pence. 
said Annas, "[it humans. Rael 
Pence's second argument is

treats} chil­now promises to that cloning will be a way to help 
dren as prod­George Annas clone a human 
infertile couples have children 
ucts," said being within six
professor that look and have a genetic link 
Annas. months, said 
to themselves. Today, it is very
Secondly, Pence. And when ~hard to adopt a healthy white 
when scientists cloned the 60 Minutes interviewed Rael, the baby," he said. "And, there is 
famous sheep Dolly, they were producers chose to put Rael in a nothing wrong with wanting a 
not trying to develop a technique dark corner for an evil effect and child that looks like you and has 
with the sole purpose of creating this reinforced the current some of your genes." 
identical sheep. Their goal was myths, Pence said. 
His third argument for moving

to eventually design a technique These myths are perpetuated forward with cloning is that "it is 
so that they could make better because "a relatively small 
premature to talk about bans,sheep, said Annas. amount of people are manipulat­
criminalization now. We have to 
"Do we want to do that to ing our view of cloning and what let things settle out first," said 
humans? Do we want to try to we think is objective. This is Pence. "If the federal govern­
make better humans'?" said scary because it is very danger­ment banned something so con­
Annas. ous when so many people nected to sex and abortion, it 
This idea of improving believe false things," said Pence. 
would be very hard to ever undo 
humans, led to his third argu­The media tends to sensation­because it's such an emotional 
ment that if humans are cloned, alize stories about cloning topic." 
we will "logically end up with because they have to make Having made these arguments 
two species -a supcrspccics money, said Pence. He criticized for cloning, Pence also refuted 
and a subspecies," said Annas. Brian Alexander who wrote an those of Annas. 



Announcing the Year 2001 Annual Awards ofthe Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship 
Thanks to a generous gift from the Albert Ravarino family, the Italian 
Studies Program is pleased to announce the year 2001 annual competition for trav­
el in support of summer research and foreign study in Italy. Grants will be made in 
amounts not to exceed $3,000 and will not normally cover a11 expenses. Notre 
Dame graduate and undergraduate students who are planning to pursue research 
or a formal program of summer study in Italy are invited to apply. Students must 
have complete at least one year of Italian language. The course work will normally 
be in Italian; will involve the study of Italian language, literature, and culture; and 
must be applicable to a student's degree program at the University of Notre Dame. 
Recommended programs for foreign study include, but are not limited to: 
Loyola University in Rome, Boston University in Padua, UCLA in Pisa, Miama 
University in Urbino, Columbia University in Scandiano. Interested students ar~ 
encouraged to consult the materials on Italian foreign study in the Department of · Romance Languages, 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall. Students are invited to submit a letter which should include: 
1) an explanation of how the proposed research or foreign study will enhance their degree program at Notre Dame 
2) a personal statement indicating their background, interests, and long-term goals 
3) a description of the research project or the program they intent to follow 
4) a budget indicating the costs involved 
5) the names of two references 
Application Deadline: Friday, March 21th, 2001 Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship Program in Italian Studies, 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall University ofNotre Dame 
He disagreed that cloning is nobody could be infertile." bad for children. A person's Cloning involves asexual replica­characteristics and personality tion of non-sex cells. It is not are determined by more than sexual reproduction, which is a just his or her own genes. A defining characteristic of cloned child is just like a delayed humanity, said Annas. twin, and there is nothing wrong The cloning debate involves with twins, he said. He also dis­other arguments and issues agreed that cloning treats chil­alluded to by both professors. dren like products in a way any Pharmaceutical companies and more negative than current nat­doctors involved in reproductive ural and assisted reproduction. technologies are just some of the 
"All people who have kids do it players involved in the debate for selfish reasons and we have who have financial incentives. a right to be selfish," he said. "In bioethics, don't forget to 
There is noth-follow the money ing wrong with trail," said Annas. creating another Following this
"There are no killer 

genetically iden­money trail will 
arguments on either

tical child to ease lead to a human the pain of losing side ofthe debate. " being cloned a child, for within the next example, said two years, said
Greg Pence 

Pence. In fact, a Pence. Annas did 
professor

child cloned for not disagree. similar reasons Both professors "would feel very also agreed that 
· wanted. We need to cut people a the beginning or the end of little slack in their personal life cloning humans will be decided about why they want children." by whether the first cloned 
In response to Annas' two­human is a healthy and normal species argument, Pence said baby or not. that we can't use the excuse that Cloning is only one of the 
people might be prejudice as biotethical questions discussed 
another reason to prevent cloning. Avoiding the issue is not the right response to prejudice. He also denied Annas' prediction that there will be two human species in the future. 
At the close of these remarks, Annas was given a chance to refute Pence's case. 
"Cloning as an infertility treat­ment is an amusing argument," said Annas. "It is just a powerful political ploy. If cloning is an infertility treatment, then and "it is extremely important to develop a mechanism to debate [both} this issue and the others because they are species-wide," said Annas. "No one scientist has the moral warrant to decide the answers to the questions that bioethics raises. I wouldn't trust the UN, [but discussing bioethics] gives us the potential to force scien­tists to have to prove to the world that the likely benefits will outweigh the costs." 

page 4 Monday, March 5, 2001
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Class of 2004 officers, off-campus co-presidents elected 
By JASON McFARLEY 
Assisatanr News Editor 
Run-off elections Friday yielded winners in the 2004 class council race and.the off­campus co-presidents contest. 
The 2004 ticket of Keri Oxley capitalized on its suc­cess in Wednesday's primary, defeating the Brian Adams ticket 454-297 Friday. George Hemus and Amy Sellers earned the off-campus co­president nod with a 121-97 win over Liz Efta and Kelly Stocker. 
"I'm excited that our ticket was able to win. We feel like we have good experience and would be great for the job," said Nick Williams, the vice presidential candidate on the Oxley ticket. 
Oxley and Williams· running mates are secretary Jazmin Garcia and treasurer Jason King. 
Receiving 469 votes, the Oxky ticket emerged as the clear leader in Wednesday's seven-way primary election, while the Adams ticket won only 172 votes. 
Williams said his ticket is enthusiastic about imple­menting many service-orient­ed goals on its platform. One of the administration's ideas 
WRC 
continued from page 1 
a chance to directly lobby to the University president. 
The group mailed a proposal requesting to meet with Malloy to talk about the WRC Friday afternoon. If the PSA doesn't get a response soon, members will probably go for­ward to Malloy's office and directly ask for a meeting, Greeman said. 
The WRC is "getting their 

next school year would estab­lish a sophomore-only major service project during a University academic break. Another would put to work members of the Class of 2004 on service activities in the South Bend community. 
"We've talk to administra­tors about our platform goals, and what we're excited about is that all of our ideas are very feasible," Williams said. 
The Remus/Sellers ticket's 24-vote win over the Efta/Stocker ticket mandated an automatic recount by the judicial council Friday. The council is required to recount any votes in an election in which the margin of victory is 25 or fewer votes. In Wednesday's primary, Efta and Stocker's slim 11-vote lead also prompted a recount. 
Remus said despite trailing Efta and Stocker heading into Frjday's runoff. he was conli­de n t that his ticket would win. 
"We thought we had a good chance of making up the dif­ference in votes," Remus said. "We felt like students would take notice of our platform." 
Among the ideas on the ticket's platform are pro­gramming and activities to enhance the social experience of off-campus students. 

feet wet" in fighting for good medical care, facilities and equal pay for workers, Greeman said. "The University has one of the most progres­sive right to organize clauses in their code of conduct." 
It makes sense to join the WRC because of this. she said. Notre Dame currently belongs to the FLA, an organization created with the backing of then-President Bill Clinton's administration to address alleged abuses in the apparel industry, including sweatshop labor. 
Remus and Sellers plans to hope to organize an off-cam­set up intramural off-campus .pus dance and a casino trip sports teams, similar to cur­for off-campus students. rent interhall teams for· on­"When we decided to run, campus students. They also Amy and I thought this office would be interesting and fun to try. It will also give us the opportunity to organize social functions for our off-campus classmates," Hemus said. 
Alumni-Senior Club's Pre-Spring Break/St. Pat's Party 
On Wednesday, this week, the Club will be preparing students for the upcoming Spring Break by hosting a special party. Expect traditional St. Patrick's festivities, (see our webpage at www.nd.edu/~asc) including "Find the Shamrock" 
game to win cool prizes from our sponsor. We'll 
also be catering to all our spring breakers, especially those going to warmer areas, by offering something "cool" to 

~your personal satisfaction. Come see what it's all about this Wednesday night and get your Spring Break started off right. Must be 21 or older with valid ID. 
Looking For A New Set Of Wheels? 
We can help with rates as low as 


'0-a 
.9°/0APR* 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You con bank on us to be better 
219/239-6611 Loan-by-Phone 800/567-6328 www.ndfcu.org 
. 

~.
@ j"NCINi' / *Annual Percentage Rate. Rates are subject to change without notlce. Certain restrictions may LENDER ~ ~~-"' apply. No refinances of Notre Dame Federal Credit Union loans apply. Independent of the University. 
•larckl9-Apri130 a b'J'I SRO-)I~ ~ndemy .nfffU '" 
fnsdn loua,, lard S -Mopiafe/emyfom ii 
liiq Bill, rao¦ 3181 (m~~now) -0pesto anND, SL Marrs.m!lob umalms -Spoasoi'4 ~ Ans Colledm. Forimillo eu1 Arts Celledffe t 
~lN~r 


ATION 
Monday, March 5, 200 l 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES 
page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Crash victims' families gather: The families of some of the nine men and boys lost at sea from the nuclear submarine com­sion gathered in Hawaii Sunday to bid fo.rewell to their loved ones. Family mem­bers later sailed to the scene of the accident to scatter flowers across the waters. 
Three killed in Macedonia: An ethnic Albanian rebellion in Macedonia intensified Sunday, with police saying government troops were battling hundreds of guerrillas in two border villages and on rugged moun­tain slopes. Three Macedonian army sol­diers were killed, including two whose vehi­cle hit a land mine near the village of Tanusevci. a stronghold of the insurgents 20 miles north of the capital, Skopje. The third died nearby, hit by sniper fire. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
U. S. seizes smuggled cocaine: 
Authorities unloaded 8.8 tons of cocaine Sunday that they said was seized on a rusty fishing boat off the coast of Mexico. It was the government's fourth-largest such seizure ever. The Coast Guard said a Navy destroyer with a Coast Guard law enforcement unit on board seized the boat Feb. 24 about 250 miles west of Acapulco. The seizure capped what the agency called one of its most productive weeks of anti-drug patrols. 
Former Ohio governor dies: Former Gov. James Rhodes, whose decision to quell an anti-war protest by sending National Guard troops to Kent State University in 1970 led to four student deaths, died Sunday. He was 91. Rhodes. the state's only four-term governor, died at 2:45 p.m. at Ohio State University Medical Center from complications from an infection and heart failure, said David Crawford, a hospital spokesman. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Two die in house fire: Two Campbells­burg men died of smoke inhalation in a fire that leveled a residence Saturday afternoon. The Brown-Vernon Fire Department respond­ed to a cal! that a residence was burning about 3 p.m .• according to a dispatcher at the Washington County Sheriff's Department. Cecil Nicholson. 73. and his son Norman Nicholson, 38, were pronounced dead at the scene by Washington County Deputy Coroner Tony Floyd, the dispatcher said. He said the residence was a total loss. 
Market Watch 3/2 

Dow 
10,466.31 +16.17 

]ONES 

Composite
Op Same: 
Volume:
1,469 220 
NIA 

--AMEX: 
Nasdaq: 2117.63 -65.74 NYSE: 626.s1 :la,;._. 1-i.tt.::3¦ S&P 500: 2134.18 -7.05 TOP5VOLUMELEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURI1Y %CHANGE $GAIN PRJCE 
OIIACLE CORP (ORCL)  -21.0:,  -4.SO  16.88  
CI\CO SYSTEMS (t:SCO)  -94~  -1.31  22.19  
NASDAQ I Oil 5 HAR <QQQ/  -4.30  -2.10  46.70  
SL:N MICROSVnEM (SUNW)  -2.2!  -0.44  19.62  
JDS UNIPHASE. (JDSU)  -'l.7S  -2.86  26.39  

PAKISTAN 
Motorcycle gunmen kill 12 people 
Associated Press 
LAHORE 

Gunmen on motorcycles rampaged through a city in eastern Pakistan on Sunday, killing 10 minori­ty Shiite Muslims and two policemen in three sepa­rate attacks, police said. 
No one claimed respon­sibility for the killings in Sheikhupura, 27 miles north of the Punjab provincial capital of Lahore. But police sus­pected militant Sunni Muslims, who have been targeting Shiite Muslims with regularity over the past several months. 
The killings generated violent protests by Shiite Muslims, who fired shots in the air with automatic weapons and shouted for revenge. 
Angry mobs set fire to tires, blocked roads and demanded police arrest the killers. 
"Our people are being killed almost daily. The government has failed to protect us," Dilshad Zaidi, a leader of Tehrik­e-Jafria, or the Movement for the Imposition of Shiite Law in Pakistan said in a telephone inter­view from Sheikhupura. 
Most of Pakistan's 140 million people are Sunni Muslims and have no quarrel with their Shiite Muslim brethren. But small and heavily armed groups belonging to both sects of Islam routinely same group then killed a Sahaba, or Guardians of The Associated Press in a clash. policeman and fatally the Friends of the telephone interview. "We 
The killings Sunday wounded another as the Prophet, and arrested have nothing to do with began in a crowded mar­officers were patrolling a two of its members in these attacks." ket when six gunmen on road on foot. Minutes connection with the One of the most violent three motorcycles raced later, they gunned down shootings. and heavily armed reli­by, firing automatic rifles, seven Shiite Muslims The group denied the gious groups in Pakistan, police said. The shots praying at a cemetery charge. the Sipah-e-Sahaba has killed three people, all of outside the city. "We strongly condemn been staging demonstra­them Shiite Muslims. Police said they sus­the killing," Zahid tions to protest the hang­
Motorcycle-riding gun­pected an extremist Sunni Mahmood Qasmi, Sipah­ing execution of one of its men believed to be the Muslim group, Sipah-e-e-Sahaba's chairman told members last Wednesday. 

ENGLAND 
IRA dissidents blamed for BBC bomb 
"We will not allow them to take our weeks." 
Associated Press 
focus from working with all parties Hours after that warning, the area LONDON to move the process on." around busy Victoria Station in the Raising the specter of a campaign No group claimed responsibility for heart of London -crowded with of attacks by opponents of the peace the bombing, but Scotland Yard tourists and shoppers -was cor­process in Northern Ireland, a pow­blamed defectors from the Irish doned off for about' 90 minutes after erful bomb blamed by police on IRA Republican Army, which has a vehicle deemed suspicious was dissidents went off early Sunday out­observed a cease-fire since 1997. spotted. The bomb squad moved in side the British Broadcasting Corp. 's IRA splinter groups that want to and carried out a "controlled explo­television center. One man was hurt. keep up the fight to drive British sion," police said, but no explosive 
Britain was on high alert against troops out of Northern Ireland have device was found. new attacks following the blast, been linked by police to a series of The BBC blast, which ripped which Prime Minister Tony Blair attacks in recent months in London. through a quiet neighborhood in denounced as a "cowardly act." He "It is quite clear that we are deal­west London shortly after midnight said it would not deter peac~ efforts ing with ruthless terrorists who are and sent an orange fireball into the in Northern Ireland. quite prepared to use ruthless tac­sky, was preceded by two tele­
"There are those outside the peace tics without any care for the conse­phoned warnings that used code 
process who are set on trying to turn quences" said Deputy Assistant words known to police. the clock back to the days before the Commissioner Alan Fry, head of the Police said the bomb was made of Good Friday Agreement," Blair said anti-terrorist branch of the 10 to 20 pounds of high explosive ­
through a spokesman, referring to Metropolitan Police. "I fear we will they did not disclose the type -and the province's 1998 peace accord. see more attacks in coming days or planted in a red taxi. 
page 6 Monday, March 5, 2001 
The Observer . NEWS 

FAFSA 
continued from page l 
''Financial aid varies for every student but it seems to me that it doesn't adequately take into account all the expenses that can be incurred by going to college, let alone a good one," said Notre Dame senior Chi Le. 
Le points to the fact that students of less fortunate fam­ilies have to get by on the bare essentials. often sacrific­ing social activities because of the cost. · 
The Office of Financial Aid looks to control costs and debts, but recognize that edu­cation is an investment that often requires families to make lifestylP choices. 
"The estimated family con­tribution is going to include sacrifice," said Brandt. "Education is a priority, an investment. In the end. you will receive the greatest reward.'' 
To determine need, the Ol'lice of Financial Aid brings both the FAFSA and CSS PRO­FILE together and individually considers each student's financial circumstances. From here, administrators put together an aid package with loans. grants and scholar­ships. 
At Notre Dume, aid "is first based on need. 
"It is designed for a self­help component," said Brandt. Typically, student Joans and campus employment serve as the foundation of a financial aid package before scholar­ship and grants are given. 
Saint Mary's philosophy dif­fers from Notre Dame's. 
"Scholarship is first incorpo­rated into the financial aid package," said Mary Nucciarone. director of finan­cial aid at Saint Mary's. 
At Saint Mary's, scholar· 

ships and grants are awarded 
first to students based on 
merit and recommendation by 
the Admissions Committee. 
Thereafter. the demonstrated 
financial need of the student 
is taken into consideration. 
"Our philosophy is gift assis­

tance first before resorting to 
self-help measures," said 
Nucciarone. 
Saint Mary's is not able to 

meet 100 percent of student's 
demonstrated need. Last year, 
Saint Mary's met the need of 
89 percent of its applicants. 
Notre Dame officials said 

they meet the demonstrated 
need of every student. They 
base their aid packages on the 
provided financial informa­
tion. 
"The admissions process is 

totally independent of finan­
cial aid," said Brandt. denying 
myths that certain students, 
such as athletes or minority 
students, receive preference 
when it comes to aid. 
The Office of Admission's 
only contribution is designat­
ing Notre Dame Scholars, the 

students in the top percentage 
of the incoming freshmen 

class. These students receive 
some preference for all four years, since the Office of Financial Aid may reward them with slightly more schol­arship aid in place of a loan. 
Some students, however, do not completely comprehend the logic behind financial aid distribution. 
"Financial aid seems to pri­marily work on putting stu­dents into more debt as they try to get a good education. It [financial aid] also does not take into account families that lie between the income brack­ets," said Le. 
The richest families don't need financial assistance, and the poorest families get the most aid, students said. Some feel the families in the middle are shortchanged, by not get­ting significant aid and not having enough resources to cover tuition. 
"Middle class families don't usually get enough money to send their kids to school," said Kara Pearce, a Saint Mary's freshman. 
One student opted not to apply for aid after talking with administrators. 

"They looked at my records. and told me it wasn't worth it for me to apply," said Saint Mary's senior Leticia Baltes. 
Students often mention the discrepancies in their aid when their families receive a slight income raise or com­plain about the extreme increases in their expected contribution after a sibling graduates from college. Student perceptions of their financial circumstances do not always coincide with that of the financial aid oflices. 
"What I can pay and what they expect of me are two totally different things," said Notre Dame sophomore Jody Greaney. 
Golden and Janelle Koop echoed these concerns. 

"I am worried about when my sister starts college. I don't know how my aid will 
The met the 


Challen 
work then, but I know I'll be in a lot of debt," Golden said. 
"I think they [the financial aid office] think my family can pay more than they can," said Koop. a Saint Mary's sopho­more. 
Both financial aid offices realize that many students have complaints about the financial aid system. Administrators stress that financial aid is an individual process. 
"Students aren't always aware of what the changes in aid are due to and need to talk to a counselor," said Nucciarone. "Little nuances can make a difference." 
Brandt also says that fami­lies that look ahead and plan for a four-year investment tend to be more comfortable with the costs. 
Moreover, both Nucciarone and Brandt cite tools their respective schools use to aid in understanding. 
"We mail our continuing 


students the renewal PAFSA, CSS PROFILE and a worksheet with tips on applying for aid," said Nucciarone. Saint Mary's also provides a section on their Web site to e-mail ques­tions to a counselor. 
"I agree it appears cumber­some," said Brandt of the application process. 
Like Saint Mary's, Notre Dame sends out a packet of information. Brandt said the process is becoming easier with the availability of the electronic renewal FAFSA. 
Still, as long as students depend on financial aid to afford expensive private col­leges like Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, questions will remain about the fairness of the process. 
"Financial aid is a good thing, but I think it's very con­fusing and intimidating to talk tu the administration about it," said Notre Dame junior Matt Panzer. "It's a daunting, adult task." 
Arthur Andersen would like to congratulate the winning teams in this year's Arthur Andersen Business Consulting Challenge at 
Notre Dame.  
The winning teams are:  
First place  Second place  Third place  
$1,000 Award  $750 Award  $500 Award  
• Megan McMullen  • Christopher Roche  • John Sadowski  
• Brad Buser  • Megan McCauley  • Molly Matune  
• Brad Rager  • Sean Harrigan  • Patrick Gleason  
• Erik Keener  • Lauren Fuchs  • Elliot Pope  
• Patrick Dunnigan  

These individuals were among 35 students from the University of Notre Dame who learned what it's like to consult on a real business engagement. 
Best of luck to the first-place team as they travel to Arthur Andersen's Center for Professional Education in St. Charles, Illinois. They'll compete against 13 other teams from around the nation for a $5,000 team prize and a $20,000 award to the University of Notre Dame. 
Join us next year for the 2002 BC Challenge! For information, visit www.arthurandersen.com/businessconsultingchallenge 
a 
www.arthurandersen.com/careers 
ARTHURANDERSEN 
Assurance • Business Consulting • Corporate Finance • eBusiness • Human Capital • Legal Services • Outsourcing • Risk Consulting • Tax Services· 
•Note: The services offered in particular areas may depend on local rcgulatoons. In some loca~ons. legal 
and/or ta, services arc provided by Andersen Legal, the international network or law firms that Is associated with Andersen 'Norfdwidc SC. 
Arthur Andersen LLP is an equal opponu11ity employer. 

Arthur Andersen refers 10 the U.S. frm of /\rthur Andersen LLP and other members of the Arthur Andersen global client service network. C> 2001 Arthur Andersen. All rights reserved. 

Monday, March 5, 200 l The Observer . NEWS page 7 
Hypatia Day brings middle school students to Saint Mary's 
By NICOLE HADDAD 
News Writer 
Seventh and eighth grade girls filled Saint Mary's cam­pus Saturday morning to learn more about science as part of llypatia Day. 
Coordinated by the chem­istry, biology, nursing and math departments, both stu­dents and faculty organized activities designed to give these girls hands-on experi­
enco in the science labs and encourage them to get involved in science early. 
Teachers chose the partici­pants based on their demon­strated interest in science and math. 
The chemistry activities included making silly putty and slime. 
"The activities showed how science can he fun, and they seemed excited to be working in college labs." said Erin Moran, a sophomore biochem­istry major. 
The biology department con­ducted various activities in which the students learned about different types of animal fur and skulls. and how these characteristics determine their behavior. 
"The girls really showed an interest in the behavior of ani­mals and were enthusiastic about having the opportunity to be chosen for this day," said Rebecca Stumpf, a sophomore biology major. 


DOMUS PROPERTIES HAS A 10 BEDROOM HOUSE 
-4 BATH, 3 KITCHENS -BIG COMMON ROOM WITH BAR -VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -NEAR OTHER STUDENT HOUSES -SECURITY SYSTEM -WASHER & DRYER 
CONTACT KRAMER 
-HEAT INCLUDED IN RENT 

(219) 298-9673 CELL PHONE (219) 234-2436 OFFICE 
(219) 674-2572 VOICE MAIL 
ALSO LEASING HOUSES FOR 2002-2003 SCHOOL YEAR 
""SMALL CLASSES• • GR.EAT '800KS • ...
•GREATSTU.VENTS .._ 


soe,ots ol t•o a9osl 
A Tf\f:Mllitl' OyT,­
L,u~ ~H 
•""-• l~-.T• 
r..,.$. "'" 
°"""' 


31tl,or11tall01t"'1 Mntlq Allow tlu PRO(;RAM ... 01 l38SR.Al. S11A1)3BS
~ 
MondaY, March 5"' 5: 15 Dm
~ 
--t O'SHAG214 
~ 
APPl3eA130NS A.1/A:JtABle NOW,,. 216 o·stu:u;,.
~ 
~ ~ • SMALL CLASSES.._ "'G'REAT1300KS"" +GREAT STUVENTS"'
.s. 
P.l.S. 
f,. LJA~ /v,t ~•,ca,:i,. 
AHo V...)•·u,1"tC• A ....~~
"'"'~.......,­
A~•f.t1a1!JJ..,....1!t ~llilfff'• 
J 

Alexandria, Greece, she was continually encouraged by her family to reach her full poten­tial. She eventually became an inspiring teacher and loved by many. 
Her career, however, was short-lived. In 412. a new archbishop came to power and disliked the large crowds of people who came to hear her speak. In 415, on her way to teach at the university, Hypatia was kidnapped and slashed to death. 
Bridget Yearwood. a sopho­more math major agreed. 
"It's really great that the girls had the opportunity to experience math and science hands-on at such a young age," she said. 
Twenty-five dit'ferent middle schools from the Indiana area participated this year. 
llypatia Day stems from Hypatia, who was the first recorded female mathemati­cian ever. 
Born in 370 A.O. in 
Menegitis 
continued from page 1 
made preventative antibiotics available without cost. Antibiotics are recommended for those who've had direct con­tact with Nemeth, but not for those who have had only casual contact with her. 
"It's not a situation we would term any kind of emergency," said Linda Timm, Saint Mary's 
vice president for Student Affairs. "The information was put out so students could make an educated decision for them­selves." 
Notre Dame students can receive the antibiotics at the Heath Services office. 
Over 300 students were. treat­ed with antibiotics, primarily due to presence at parties where cups were being exchanged indiscriminately," said Thompson. 
According to O'Neill rector John Herman, O'Neill's Mardi Gras celebration caused con­cern for some residents. 
"Apparently Jenny Nemeth was here at Mardi Gras," said Herman. 
Some participants decided to receive the antibiotics, but Herman cautioned that not 
everyone who attended the cele­
~ 
bration is at risk.
~ 
"For the general population in
-t 
O'Neill, I'm told that the risk is
n 

G not significant. They don't need 
2: to be concerned," said Herman. At Saint Mary's, Health
~ 

~-Service visited all of the resi­
:i:: dence halls on Friday afternoon. Health Service staff discussed risks with each student and gave antibiotics if requested. Health Service opened on 
fo 


Saturday morning to provide another opportunity for stu­dents to receive antibiotics. 
Outbreaks of bacterial menin­gitis often occur on college cam­puses. The close proximity of people from geographically diverse locations appears to cause this, said Thompson. 

"The only way you can do any prevention is to educate stu­dents before they come to col­lege about the risks and benefits of rneningococcal vaccine," said Thompson. 
Both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's provide information about the vaccine to incoming students. 
The vaccine does not prevent all strains of meningitis, but it can prevent the most common strains. As with any vaccine, side effects are a possibility. 
"It's a shot that all college stu­dents are encouraged to get," said Timm. 
The Notre Dame health center has Menomune meningococcal vaccine available for $75. The clinic's supply of vaccine was exhausted and will be available Wednesday. Interested students need to call Health Services to ensure vaccine would be avail­able. 
The vaccine will also be avail­
able at Saint Mary's on 
Wednesday. Cost information is 
available from Health Service at 
student request. Notre Dame 
Health Services also encourages 
students to consider getting the 
vaccination from their family 
physician over spring break. 
Meningitis can also be caused 
by a virus. Viral meningitis is 
more common than bacterial 
meningitis, but its symptoms are 
generally mild. 
Anyone with questions or 
interested in more information 
about meningitis should contact 
health services on either cam­
puses. 

Visitation for Nementh will be 
at Holy Cross Chapel Monday 
from 2 to 4 p.m. and 6 to 9 p.m. 
The funeral will be at the 
Basillica of the Sacred Heart 
Tuesday at 3:30 p.m. 
... 


C 
I 
en 


II ·~ 
1C I 'C::s 

The Department of Art, Art History aiid Design
C 
(V 

is plea,ed to annoW'\c, ib 1.rumal competition fo1 the Ril•y l'riu in A.rt History & Criticism.
c' 

Curtel'\t NrJtre Dame uJ'\dugraduat" and
C 

graduate ,tudel'\'bl U1! il'\vittd to 1ubmit essays 
rn 
-

onany topicIn the hl&tocy ofart or art criticism 
:c·­

t: 
for c;onsldt,~tion .i.n the (on'l~tie>l'\. Essays must deal with the visual arts. They may have 
beert wrlttm in conjunction with a coun~ talcll.l'\
a: 
..a: .. 

lit the University, but need not hiln been.
... 
I., 
c:, 

Rulel govemlztg the coinpetitlon are avail.ible 
.., 

in tlw Art Department Office, two a:,p;..,. Qf
C 

the ,ubmi5sion mutt be delivered to the Art
Q) 

Ot-partmmt Office, 132 O'Shaughneaey Hall,
E 

by 3:00 PM, Monday, MJird\ 26, to be •lisible.
... 

A student may ow.y 5Ubm.it ONE enb:y.
I. 
" 
CL I» Cl 


VIEWPOINT 
AJ:.HE 

page 8 VtiSERVER 
Monday, March 5, 200 l 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Ro, Q. Nu1r, Daine, IN 46S56 024 Sourh Dining !iall, No<r< Dame. IN 46556 
EO!TOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINF.SS MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Tim Lane 
N1,,'WS EDITOR: Anne Marie Mattingly VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey SroRTS EDITOR: Kerry Smirh SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MAI\V'S EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: Elizabeth Lang 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTII.OU£R: Bob Woods GRA!'HICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 

CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0.............. 631-747I FAx........................................................631-6927 AoVf.RTISING............,........................631-6900/8840 
obscrvad@nd.edu EDITOR JN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/As.IT. ME....................631-454I BUSINESS OFFICE.. ...................................... 631-5313 NEWS........................................................ .631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS........................................................631-4543 
obscrver.sports. l@nd.edu 

ScENE......................................................... 631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu 

SAINT MARV's.. ....... ..................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu 

PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB AoMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site ar http:llobsen=.nd ,du for daily updates ofcampus n<:WS, sports, fearures and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, revi<:WS and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minuce forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online featnres for spe­
and rates of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
ahout The Observer 
articles published after 
to mee! rhe editors and 
staff
Augusr 1999 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent. daily newspaper published m print and online by the students ofrhe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary•s College. Editorial contenr, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither insrirution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The n= is reported as accurately and objecrively as possible. Unsigned cdicorials represent the opinion of rhe majority of rhe Editor in Chief, Man3ging Editor, Assistant Managing Editor '1nd department editors. Commentaries, letrcrs and columns present the views of the authors and not ncc:c:ssarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of:11! opinions through lerrers is encouraged. Lcirers to the Ediwr must be signed and must include: contact information. 
Q,mriom rrgardmg Obsm,erpolicies shouldIn di.rert­,dlo Ediwr in Chief Milu Connolly. 
In the next several days, the University will decide whether to join the Worker Rights Consortium (WRC). The WRC is an anti-sweatshop associ• ation that would monitor how colle­giate apparel is made with the goal of promoting fair conditions for workers. 
The University had two ways of making this important deci• sion. Using Approach A, it could have asked students, faculty and staff what to do. It might take into account the 23-5 Faculty Senate vote to join the WRC and the upcoming Student Senate vote on Wednesday. It might listen to the 100-200 people who braved 28-degree weather to attend a pro-WRC rally. It would read the names of over 400 students who have signed a pro-WRC petition, whose numbers are likely to double. 
With Approach A, different universi­ty constituencies (students, faculty, staff. and perhaps administrators} would have formed committees. These committees would not decide what the university should do but rather gener­ate discussion on the issue. There would be ferocious letter debates in The Observer viewpoint section, teach-ins, speakers, public forums, chalking, leafleting, posters, rallies and petitions. In addition, professors would integrate the discussion into courses. 
The driving force behind this discus­sion would be the absolutely neces­sary ingredient that students, faculty, staff and possibly administrators would have the power to make the decision. Either everyone could get one vote, or faculty, students and staff could each be allotted an equal share of votes. Under these conditions, and only under them, would the Notre Dame community truly educate itself so it could make the best decision. 


To some readers, Approach A might sound a little radical -that is because I just proposed being democ­ratic. 
Alternatively, the University could take Approach B, and the administra­tion would do things on its own. President Malloy could appoint mem­bers to a taskforce with the responsi­bility to give him a recommendation on this issue. He would exclude possi­ble troublemakers, such as faculty and staff who are working for a living wage ordinance in South Bend, and student activists who are working with United Students Against Sweatshops groups at 150 campuses. He would include representatives from sweat­shop corporations. He would pick peo• ple based on the type of recommenda­tion he wanted to get from the com­mittee. 
The committee would have private meetings, not open to members of the Notre Dame community. It would fail to communicate with everyone else, since it would not feel the need to communicate with non-experts. It would develop initiatives, some of which would be implemented, all without public consultation. 
To some readers, Approach B might sound a little out-dated -that is because it is authoritarian. 
In the wake of the University choos­ing Approach B, a group of students has tried to foment Approach A. We have organized, educated and mobi­lized students_ Despite being excluded from the anti-sweatshop taskforce and being shut out of the decision-process, we continue to agitate so that our voices will be heard. Now we are in position where we are affecting the decision. 
Last Friday, when it finally came for the committee to make its recommen­dation on the WRC, it decided that it had seen too much of Approach A. So to stop student-input it decided that its recommendation would be secret. Now, even the two student represen­tatives on the committee, whose pres­ence helps to legitimize the taskforce, are powerless to tell their constituen­cy what the recommendation was. 
Two years ago, over 110 members of the ND community were participating in a three-day fast. hoping to encour­age the Board of Trustees to include sexual orientation in the non-discrimi­nation clause. But unfortunately their effort was bound to fail, as the admin­istration has already decided unani­mously against the change. The deci­sion was made two months before the fast, but the administration did not bother to tell the fasters or anyone else. 
Now anti-sweatshop activists are in a quandary. The taskforce made a recommendation, but it is secret. Are we to assume that the recommenda­tion went against us? I will guess that it did, but most people expected it would be close. Are we to wait for President Malloy to announce his deci­sion? Will we be able to affect the decision after it has been announced? It appears, at least for a moment, that the University has partially succeeded in shutting out activists. 
It is possible that, using a bad deci­sion-making process, the University may choose to join the WRC. But even so, we cannot trust that future deci­sions will always be just. If Notre Dame continues to make authoritarian decisions, they will continue to priori­tize the interests of the administration and its rich corporate donors who control the Board. It will listen to the rich, instead of God's call for justice. Authoritarian decisions will cause workers and other oppressed groups to suffer. We must challenge the deci­sion-making process and all unjust decisions. 
Aaron Kreider is a third year sociol­ogy graduate student. I/is column appears every other Monday. The low­est wage Aaron has worked for is eighty cents per hour. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 

E 
g 1i ®" 
f
• 
~ 
E 
0 
I> 
t: 
i ~ 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"ft is the duty ofthe good citizen not to be silent." 
Charles Eliot Norton scholar 
VIEWPOINT 
OTHE 

Monday, March 5, 200 I BSERVER 
page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
God proofs make ancient mistakes 
Tn last Tuesday's Observer, Charles Rice claimed there are good foith•independent arguments for God's existence. I could hardly disagree. I think there probably are such argu­ments (although I don't kn.:>w of any myself and doubt there are any with premises an atheist would accept). What's sur• prising is that Rice claims to have such arguments. The ones he presents, however, are riddled with difficulties. Here's just a sampling. 
Rice's first argument rests on a false dichotomy. He claims there are just two options: (a) there exists an eternal person• al being (God) or (b) there exists nothing. But there are at least two options besides: (c) there exists an eternal non-per­sonal being (e.g. lhe physical universe) or (d) there exists an infinite series of non-eternal beings each of which causes the existence of the next. Inieresiingly enough, Aquinas himself considered (d) a philosophical live option (his arguments against infinite series concern synchronically, not diachroni­cally, related items). Famously, Aquinas also held that the non-eternality of the world could not be proven philosophi• cally. (Nor does the Big Bang rule it out: It's possible the uni­verse is eternally oscillating, undergoing successive big bangs and "big crunches." Granted recent cosmology sug­gests a big crunch isn't in the offing, but there are still other hypotheses about an eternal universe.) 
Rice's argument to an unmoved mover, on the other hand, trades on a theory of motion we know to be false. Unlike Aquinas, we've known at least since Newton that objects will continue in rectilinear motion at constant velocity unless acted upon by outside forces. Consequently, although one might infer that an object in motion must have been moved by something, one cannot infer that its mover still exists. 
I won't rehearse the well-known difficulties facing the argument to a first cause. 
Rice is right about one thing: a watch coming together as a result of its parts being shaken in a bag is so improbable it's incredible. As an argument against Neo-Darwinism, howev• er. this is an obvious straw man. 
My purpose here is not to prove that arguments like Rice's are bad. Everybody ... sorry ... almost everybody already knows they're bad. My purpose, rather, is to suggest that advancing them ala Rice does theism a disservice. 
Consider detractors from theism who harbor the following suspicion: People who believe in God are ignorant dogmatists who can do no better than advance time and again the same ineffectual arguments. Thanks to efforts like Rice's, such persons believe their suspicions confirmed. The result is exactly as Aquinas said: "The very inadequacy of the argu­ments strengthen [adversaries of the faith] in their error, since they imagine that our acceptance of the truth of faith is based on such weak arguments." Nor do such arguments help the faithful. Most theistically-minded students, for instance, greet them with fatigue: "Here comes that argu­ment again, and here's the refutation again." The result is misology, loss of confidence in the ability of reason to resolve matters of any importance. 
Rather than following Rice's tack, theists do better on a dif­ferent, more modest one. Again Aquinas: "Our intention should not be to convince our adversary by arguments: it should be to answer his arguments against the truth." The complaint that recent Christian apologetics has overused this defensive strategy has something to recommend it. But to go on the offensive with arguments like Rice's is analogous to entering a modern battlefield armed with a flintlock. 
Study the arguments of past masters; by all means learn from them. imitate their spirit, but for-the love of God don't repeat their mistakes. 
William Jaworski 
professor ofphilosophy Univcr,ity of Notre Dame March 2, 200 I 
Crave attention? 

Viewpoint accepts applications for columnists on a constant basis. Just send us something! 
Right to Life responds 
I am writing in response to the recent view­point articles concerning the Knights of ColumbLis' "Trojan Horse" and to two specific points. First, Sarah Haight's statement con• cerning pro-lifers, questioning if they are "truly concerned about reconciling women who have had abortions back to the Church (a sup­position I regard as dubious at best, but with which I am willing to indulge them)." Second, Jocelyn Szczepaniak-Gillece, "Shame on you, Notre Dame, for even accepting this Trojan Horse and abandoning education and free thought for hatred and disgust." 
Being a co-president of the Right to Life club on campus, I feel compelled to respond to these. However, I also feel like I have not served my office well. A student who leaves Notre Dame should not believe that being pro· life means seeking the condemnation of those who have had an abortion. Pro•life is being pro-person. It is about compassion and not hate. 
I will try to explain this, and I feel the best way is to explain some of what Notre Dame Right to Life does. Our mission statement divides our actions into three tiers: prayer, service and education. I will focus on service. Some people may be surprised that a pro-life group even does service, but this is only because of a gross misunderstanding of the pro-life perspective. 
RTL's biggest service program is working with the Women's Care Center (WCC). The WCC helps women in problem pregnancies. It provides a variety of services, ranging from pregnancy tests, to pre-natal care, to supplies after the baby is born, to parenting classes, to counseling. Another organization is Hannah's House. They provide a similar service but focus more on women who are younger and struggle financially. Demonstration of parenting skills (such as making dinner) is rewarded with goods that are needed to have a house and raise a child (such as clothes). They also pro· vide counseling for post-abortion syndrome. 
In addition, RTL is currently working on a post-abortion syndrome week to educate stu­dents on the real effect abortion has on women (studies show that upwards of 90 percent of women suffer from it). A new program, Project MOM, is currently going through administra­tive approval. It will be used to collect a vari• ety of goods for expectant or young mothers and babies. In the past, we have held a preg­nancy resources forum and hosted speakers from organizations such as Feminists for Life. 
Programs such as these are not unique to Notre Dame. Pro-lifers across the country (and world) realize how difficult it can be to find oneself expecting a child. The pro-life move­ment's reaching out to women is not, by any means, "dubious at best," but with open arms and an open heart. Neither docs the movement embrace "hatred and disgust." Rather, we embrace education, free thought and the won­ders of humanity, as we believe that all people should have the opportunity to experience life. 
A statue dedicated to the silent suffering of babies and their mothers is not hatred, con• demnation, anti-free thought, anti-education, disgust. It is a beautiful reminder of the love one woman had for her child and a painful reminder of the love that millions have not experienced. But that pain is a consequence of the lies of the pro-abortion movement. Pro-lif­ers do not like or enjoy this pain, but we are compelled by justice to not turn our heads from the issue for the sake of convenience. 
Pro-lifers want to expose the lies, ease the pain and prevent the suffering of abortion. This can be done through education, service, prayer, love, compassion and understanding for mothers, their children and society. We should not judge others but realize the painful truth that abortion is the taking of the most innocent of human life. It is wrong and should be illegal. We must protect life with the law and, with our actions, help others who have suffered and are suffering because of abortion. 
Mario Suarez ND Right to Life Co-President Senior Off-Campus February 27, 200 I 

I've been hesitant to write this letter, afraid of being perceived as just an old rah•rah alum• nus or someone who doesn't recognize that basketball is only a game or that Notre Dame is a top academic institution and not just a "jock school." However ... 
During the last two games I have watched emanating from the JACC, the sound feed could easily have been confused with a golf tourna­ment or a classical concert. The dead quiet has even become the topic of conversation among the announcers. Today, the radio guys (who are homers) lament that there is no home court advantage at Notre Dame. 
I'm sorry, but isn't that embarrassing? During my four years, I saw the beginning and the end of the UCIA '88 game winning streak (beating Lew Alcindor my freshman year and Bill Walton my senior year). but also saw Digger Phelps' first year when we lost to Bobby Knight by 65 points. Even in the (very) lean years, I do not remember the morgue-like atmosphere you enjoy. Even in an era when demonstrations closed the school and basket­ball just didn't seem that important when our friends were dying in Vietnam. you could still go to a basketball game and not be able to hear yourself think. 
Well, the last home game is history. But maybe you'll not dismiss this Jetter as the prod· uct of a senile Domer that has lost perspective. Maybe the sixth man will show up next year and let the visiting team know they are at Notre Dame. 
Kevin Kelly 
class of '74 March 4, 200 I 
C s 

page 10 Monday, March 5, 200 I 
What would 
Vito do? 

College is an integral time for young people to devel­op into mature, law-abiding citizens. But, it is not always so easy to achieve this great feat on our own. Young people need guidance in order to figure every­thing out. Many students look to their parents or teach­ers and maybe even their coaches and neighbors for guidance. 
Me? I dip into the rich well that are movies. 
There is really only one main character I use to help me through the day in my sometimes stressful and confusing college life. In social settings -which are impor­tant for developing good people skills as an adult -I sometimes find myself searching for the right thing to do or say. Sometimes, an introverted and quiet guy like myself has trouble reading situa­tions and has to wonder how to handle them. 
So, if I'm at the Boat Club trying to get my cup filled with another Keystone Light and some guy bumps into me, or if I'm at a small gathering and I want to compliment a young lady on her new hairdo, I may get a little choked up and wonder how I can express myself in the right way. Also, if I have a question or a problem with a professor, I sometimes have trouble expressing my concern cor­rectly. 
Clearly, it is important to have the right role model to learn from. You wouldn't want to be walking around modeling yourself after a character that doesn't com­mand the utmost respect and admiration. You need a character who can simply handle every situation with the greatest ease and grace. 
Really, there is only one choice; when I need guid­ance, I don't go to my advisor, I go to Don Vito Corleone. 
Can you think of anyone with a better story? Vito can do anything. When he was IO he stood by and watched his father, mother and brother be murdered by a Sicilian mob boss. For his safety, he fled to America, only to return after he grew up to take revenge on that same mob boss, while whispering his name into the man's ears making sure that they were the last words he heard before he died. 
Vito built his empire completely by himself. One day, he's working in the produce section of a grocery store, the next, he's running New York. He simply shoots the head of the neighborhood because he's just sick of pay­ing him every week. He helps an old lady keep her apartment by making her landlord "an offer he can't refuse." He made his godson a big, Hollywood super­star because that's what his godson wanted to be. When a producer tries to exile his godson from Hollywood, Vito puts the head of the producer's racing horse in bed with him in order to convince him. Whoa! Even the toughest henchman in the world, Luka Braza, gets all choked up when he has to talk to Vito. 
And Vito does all of this in the most respectful way. When the other families in New York are getting into the narcotics business, Vito refuses. He doesn't want to get mixed up in that dirty money. Vito always treats everyone with whom he comes into contact with the greatest courtesy, and therefore, he is the most respected man in New York. Not to mention, Vito Is portrayed in his younger years by Robert De Niro and In his older years by Marlon Brando. I don't think it gets any better than that. 

If Vito were at Boat Club and wanted a beer, he would get it. If he wanted to compliment a lady, he would. If a professor didn't give him the grade he thought he deserved, he'd make them an offer they couldn't refuse. 
So, when I see those bracelets that say W.W.J.D, I can only think about how I wish I had one that said W.W.V.D. 

TIie opinions expressed in this column are those of the (lLJ/hor and nor necessarily those of the Observer. 

Designing the f 

Scene takes a look at the harrowing and som world of the College ofArchitect 
to switch into, as well.
By SCOTT LITTLE 

A question that should be addressed is; Were
Scene Writer 

any buildings on the Notre Dame campus designed by Notre lJame students? 
Being an architecture major is tough. It seems The answer to that is yes. A number of alumni like its always crunch time. It isn't the toughest 
helped design the new bookstore and the
major, but it is arguably the busiest. 
upcoming per­Architecture majors, or "Archies" as they forming arts 
are called, take five years to graduate 
center.
because of University requirements. It's Architecture Fun Facts 
Professors
enough to make some, or possibly all, of the 
have also had archies go crazy at times. It gets hot and . Real architects don•t their hand in
sweaty in the studio and students have been 
the design or
known to turn in a design of a mirage or use blue paper like in car-
buildings at two. toons. Notre Dame.
Archies have been known to hold water Frank Montana,bottle bowling competitions to relieve the 
an arcitecture 
pressure. .The Pantheon in Rome professor emer­
One of the highlights of the architecture 
itus, designed
is the world's oldest 

major is the junior year that students spend 
the old book­
in Rome. The students also visit Venice, working building. 
store and the
Florence. Napoli and Sicily when in Italy. 
Center for 
Students in their own class do a lot of bond-Social Concernsing while abroad. +Some movies that 
building.
Another way archies bond is through the involve architecture: Architecture studios each grade level has. Reportedly, 
"Three Men and a Baby" professors are 
the sophomore studio has a lot of moaners. 
also responsibleOf course, nothing brings people together and "There1s Something for having reno­like a bare butt. 
About Mary" vated Bond 
If it weren't for toys like Lincoln Logs, 
llall. which
Construx, Legos and Tinker Toys, many used to be the 
architecture majors would not know that campus library. 
design was to be their future. Most high Two of the 
schools don't even give students a glimpse into favorite professors in the architecture major arcthe world of architecture. It is a difficult major professor Economakis, who is currently in Rome, 

Architecture students work on constructing Greek-style columns In the foyer of Bond Hall. These projects take days to complete, with students working until the early morning hours for several days In order to finish their masterpieces. 

Monday, March S, 2001 
page 11 
ure 
imes humorous 
e 
and Professor Stamper. Economakis is a great help to underclassmen who didn't come to the program knowing much about architecture. Stamper is well-liked because he lets students work at their own pace. 
Where do archies go after college? Thry go to firms in New York, Chicago or Los Angeles. Some choose to work for housing companies and others go into service oriented careers. Architects do not just build buildings. They also design bridges, landscapes and interiors. 
It is a hard road, though. Architects don't live by night and day. They live from project to project. Their eating patterns do not coincide with the din­ing hall's. Nerves are often put on the back-burner. Insomnia is a virtue and breakdowns have to be melted away in massive mugs of coffee. 
Is it worth it? 
Right out of college the money isn't that great. Thr, rich architects are the ones with their own firms or are part­ners of a firm, which takes years to accomplish. 
However, architects get a chance to leave their mark on the world through their creations, an experience which is beyond price. 


Scene needs writers. Interested? Call 1-4540 or e-mail us at scene@nd.edu 
page 12 

The Observer . SPORTS Monday, March 5, 200 I 
Bengals 
continued from page 20 
trying to stick with one thing the 
entire time. If you don't you get 
flustered," said Thompson. "If I 
start brawling and get crazy, 
1tnd don't concentrate. then it's 
nut gonna work for me," said 
Thompson. 
The back and forth battle for 

control continued into the third 
round as Duba pushed for the 
brawl again with some decisive 
upper cuts and hooks. In 
Thompson's last Bengal Bout 
round. he got in with some left­
right high impact hooks. Duba 
had a triple right hook. and then 
Thompson came back, defying 
the fatigue that hung over the 
ring like an inescapable demon, 
finishing off the round with a big 
right hook and jab. 
"Scotl Ouba did an absolutely 

amazing job. lle's a first year 
guy, and it was such a close 
light. When the fight was over, I 
didn't know what to expect. but 
you can't regret anything if you 
feel like you fought your best 
fight," said Thompson. 
Light Heavyweight 
"Hell, yeah! Give it to me! Yeah! Yeah!" yelled Pete "Heat the Rap" Ryan as his name was announced as this year's Light 
Heavyweight champion. Ryan soak it all in," continued Ryan. dence outside the ring," said right hand as I could, and to get out of the corner your adrene­
defeated Mike Vanderpoel for Ryan's unstoppable left-left­
Ryan, who will attend law school in and get out as fast as I could. line starts," said Abeyta.
the title. The title is his fourth, a right upper combinations were next year at Washington At first I was kind of testing him In the first round. Abeytadistinction shared by only eight flying, as he dominated this University. out. I had seen him fight before, stayed down low, but Adam
other men in Bengal Bouts histo­round of anticipation. Ryan's "Under the lights, with just 
and I knew he tires early. He has reacted, getting in some hard 
ry: Bill Hoerner in 1949, Tim jabs made some contact. and he one other guy is scary. but it a long reach advantage, and he jabs.
Reardon in 1963, Holand got in two jabs to Vanderpoel's makes a lot of day to day things hit me with his jab which was "I just had to throw straight
Chamblee in 1973, Anthony body to end the first round. not seem like such a big deal. incredibly hard. Then I hit him punches and get out. It was 
H~cci in 1980, Mike Noone in "I actually didn't feel that good But a four time champion? few times with some hard either that or tie him up. I either 
1989, Kerry Wate in 1992, Mike about the first round, until I got That's a big deal," 185 champ punches and I could tell he was had to be hugging him or five 
Trainor in 1992 and Jeff Gerber 
my rhythm going," said Ryan. and fellow captain Josh little more timid," said Abeyta. feet away," said Abeyta.in 1994. Ryan continued with the left­Thompson said, "We kn~w Pete Abeyta found some inspiration Abeyta, who is a first year law Some past four-time champi­left-right combinations, and could do it. We can't be more for his own fight in the 10 fights student, had boxed for four ons and boxing club captains debuted his straight-on jabs and happy for him. That was awe­before his. years as an undergraduate at joined Hyan in the ring as he 
high-low to Vanderpoel's body some." 'Tve never seen so many fights Texas Tech. 
received his award, and his fam­combos. A colossal left hook where people just laid their "This week was horrible, I ily and a crowd of supporters caused the referee to stop the hearts out on the line. I couldn't probably slept like three or four
Heavyweight

from his old dorm, Keenan. contest twice. Ryan finished believe some of the stamina the hours a night. It's hard to think
It seemed that Carlos "The
watched from the audience. round two with two more huge little guys had," said Abeyta. about anything else at any time.
Master" Abeyta's more compact
"My mom even came out of the right hooks. Late in the first round, Abeyta Sleeping, in class. walking to
build and height would keep him
bathroom, where she usually Ryan continued his display of threw out his elbow. which he your car, it's always on your
at a disadvantage, but in this
goes during my fights, to watch tight technical boxing. initiating had done in practice three times mind. Now I can get a good
contest between the hardest hit­
me fight this year," said Ryan. 
movement around Vanderpoel's before. Though he said he was night's sleep,'' said Abeyta, who
ting boxers in the Bouts,
"And that was incredible. so powerful defense, boxing in pure in pain. he continued to fight. will relax in Las Vegas over
Abeyta's agility helped him to
cool, when all my good buddies form until the end. "I couldn't feel my arm for a spring break.
earn the heavyweight title in a
and all those guys were right "I'll be a big supporter of the good 15 to 20 seconds. The refs The pressure for next year's
technical knock-out 42 seconds
with me in the ring when it was program for the rest of my life. just told me one more time and Bouts, however, has already
into the second round against
all over. It's been the most important they were gonna stop the fight, begun to build. 'Tm pretty sure
Dan Adam.

"Going into the fight, I just think I've done at Notre Dame. and I had to suck it up and go I'll be back next year. It's too
'.'I respect [Adam's] power. I
knew it was my last chance to Boxing gives you a lot of confi-with it. And then once you step much fun," said Abeyta. 
tried to stay as far away from his 
-·--------=======-~=-=--=:..:::.:.;=--:.:.:::..:===================================================================-=-~ 
The Observer accepts da.ssifieds every business day from 8 a,m. to 3 r-m-al the Notre Dame office, 
024 Sourh Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds musr be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cent> per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right 10 cdir 
all classifieds for comenr without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Neeo babysitter, pref. Early ed major, own trans. 2-yr.~ld by Martins 

WANTED 272-1205 
Fraternities*Sororities Roomate for Sweet Clubs"Student Groups 2BR+lott Oak Hills Condo Earn $1,000-$2,000 this semester View of Dome, Laundry, Fireplace, wilh lhe easy Campusfundraiser com $400/mo.+ull three hour fundrais1ng event. No Sum&/or next yr. 289-5651 sales required. Fundrais1ng dates are filling quickly' so call lodayl Contact Make $5500 in summer &for start Campustundraiser.com at (888) 923-now Set own hours -need hard 3238, or visit www campusfundrais-work & good social skills. ~ Ca114-2765. 
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: Make Reliable, quality childcare needed in a difference in the life ot a child' my home for 2-year-old and infant. Summer therapy camp for children Part-time hours are 2-3 hr&'day, 3-4 with disabilities. Located on srore o1 days/wk with 1 Saturday a month. Lake Superior near Big Bay, Ml. Majoring in early childhood develop-Positions available for Counselors, ment or Childhood education with lifeguards, Instructors tor own transportation a plus but not Nature/Arts & necessary. Cral\s/Recrealion/Canoeing, Nurses, References required. Therapists, Food Service, and Phone 288-6795 
Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastie, responsible, and love children. June Ex ND staffer and spouse want to 17 lhrough August 12. Salary, Room rent your apt. for summer. Non­& Board, and experience ol a liletime smokers no pets. Ha\/e rented trom provided. Call or write for application students for past 12 summers. and infonnat1on. Bay Cliff Health Write 135 Lakeview Dr. Mulberiy Fl Gamp, 310W. Washington. Suite 33860 300, Marquette, Ml 49855, (906)228­5nO, e-mail BayClitfHC@aol.com or call 863-425-4402 SUMMER HELP NEEDED ­
TEACHER ASSISTANTS The Eariy Childhood Development 
Center at the University of Notre 
Dame is looking for college students who enjoy young children. If you would be interested in spending the summer, June 7-August 3-40 hours per week, assisting the chil­dren and teachers on field trips, reading childrenOs books, building with blocks, singing songs, playing games and assisting with lunch, please call 631-3344 to receive an application and more information. FUN IN THE SUN!I 
LOST & FOUND 
Reward Available ­Lost Class Ring Blue Stone with Small ND dark finish with '01 inside 
Call Todd at 246-9085 
SIZEABLE REWARD OFFERED: 
For a lost gold and silver bracelet with alternating silver and gold blocks, if found please contact Rachel Phillips at 4-1492 or ema~ philljps 75@nd edu 
2-4 PERSON HOUSE FOR RENT.  Wooded 1/2 acre lots 20 minutes to  
NEWLY RENOVATED THREE  Notre Dame Football. Minutes to US  
FOR RENT  BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS.  Golf Academy. Contract available.  
$20,000 Phone (219) 473-0191  
NEWLY RENOVATED. THREE  CALL 219-298-3800.  
BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS  Microwave stand w/ storage  
CALL 29-298-3800  $175 Call Kim 631-5878  
FOR SALE  
3-6 bedroom homes furn. Near cam- Beautiful brass bed, queen size, with  
pus 2001 /02&sumrner 272-6306  New Townhouse in "The Forest"  orthopedic mattress set and deluxe  
2 story 2. 5 bath Study  frame. All new. never used, still in  
HOUSES FOR RENT: 1 )4-br  Hardwood floors Skylights  plastic. $235  
$700/month 2)3-br. $600/month We'll  Deck French doors Alarm  call 219·862-2088  
rna11e almost any changes to the  $179,900  
houses. Call Bill at 675-0776  call 243-2939  89 Toyota Corolla manual 1OOK  
highway miles  
All the good homes are not gone!  SPRING BREAK-DOWNTOWN  $2300  
Available 4 bedroom. Available 2  CHICAGO!  call 273-3149  
bedroom Dave 291-2209  
M~§~rnic!Ji,u:ia Qrg  $22-25/night-Hostelling lnt'I $2 OFF  Spring Break Appetizer  
WITHAD  Mexican Blankets from $12.95 + SH  
3-5 bedroom homes  312/360-0300 or~-tlit.tli!dlQQ.Qrg  mexiconnection.com  
close to campus  
232-2595  PHONE CARDS  
mmmrentals@aot.com  PERSONAL  
$20:  
2 Houses, side by side, still avaiI. For  2601 MIN WITH 49 CENT SUR­ HAVE FUN EVERYBODY  
2001-02. Rent one or both, 4 BR & 6  CHARGE  
6R, Furnished, beach V-ball, WfD,  or  4 DAYS UNTIL SPRING BREAKI  
prime location  $20  
call 233-9947 Greg  362 MIN WITH NO FEES  Whoa!  
3-bdrm. House tor rent Fall 01.  634-1146 CLAUDIA - Bye  
2 blks from campus  634-4210 SARA  Bye  

-----------------~. 
Monday, March 5, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
BENGAL BOUTS 
Senior Rueda defeats Newburg in finals 
By KEVIN BERCOU Spom Writer 
Senior Camillo Rueda was finally crowned a champion as he out-boxed and out­muscled sophomore Shawn Newburg, garnering a unani­mous decision victory in the 130-pound weight class. 
"It was my senior kick," Rueda said. "l knew it was my last chance to win, and that really motivated me." 
After an uneventful open­ing round, Rueda pressed the issue in the second using his significant reach advantage to keep Newburg at bay while going on the offensive him­self. 
A powerful right hand drew blood. while Camillo drew on his experience to dominate the bout. 
"I was tired," he said. "But I knew had to keep going, keep getting after him." 
135 Pounds 
Joshua Coleman had it all planned out. 
The sophomore from Dillon knew that his opponent. freshman Tony Hollowell, was going to get in his share of big shots. 
The key, thought Coleman, was to let him do his punch­ing for the first two rounds and then capitalize on his anticipated fatigue in the third and attack. 
For his plan to have gone better would have been a near impossibility. Coleman went on the defensive for the first two rounds, allowing Hollowell to dictate the action. Coleman, however, deftly avoided the freshman's fury with quickness and effective blocking. 
"He threw a lot at me," Coleman said. "But I was able to move my head and block pretty well. I knew I was pacing myself so I had enough energy left for the third." 

Sure enough, the third round was Coleman's as he got the best of several furious exchanges to capture a split decision punctuated by a thundering left hand in the final seconds. 
145 Pounds 

After winning a Bengal Bouts title just a year ago, Mike Waldo was certain nothing could be sweeter. 
He was wrong. 

Winning a second champi­onship with a victory against Jemar Tisby proved an even greater feeling for the fighter who calls himself "Mad Man." 
After a slow first round, Waldo put on an offensive show in the second pinning the overmatched Tisby against the ropes twice. 
"I think it's the first time I've ever had the reach advantage," Waldo said. "I only wish l had two more years to do this." 
Waldo was more satisfied with a second title than he even was with his first. 
"Anyone can win one," he said. "It's a lot tougher to win two." 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish must get ready for Tournaments 
Before the calendar even flipped to March, I was con­vinced Georgetown stood no chance of winning Sunday. 
The game would be a senior sendoff for team leader Martin Ingelsby and Hans Rasmussen, and I knew how much all the Irish players wanted to give these two a final home game to smile about, not to mention picking up a 20th regular-season victory. 
Nothing in the early going changed my mind. 
Junior power forward Troy Murphy worked his magic, throwing his 245-pound weight around as the Irish jumped into the lead. Murphy scored eight of Notre Dame's first 12 points, including two 3-pointers, with the All-American picking up a few floorburns diving for loose balls. 
Georgetown's height advan­tage -the Boyas' lineup included 6-11 Lee Scruggs and 7-0 Ruben Boumtje-Boumtje. along with 6-8 leading scorer Mike Sweetney -and domi­nance on the boards soon turned things around. A 19-4 Georgetown scoring run to open the second half left Notre Dame trailing 56-40. 
Maybe I should have been worried then, yet I still thought the Irish (19-8, 11-5 Big East) would pull it out. They didn't, falling 79-72 to the Hoyas. 
"You want to push the but-tons," Irish coach Mike Brey said of his pre-game motivation strategy, "but there's other but­tons to be pushed." 

Such as looking forward to the Big East and NCAA Tournaments. 
This year's Irish may have only two more wins than they did entering last year's Big East Tournament, but they are light years away from that NIT run­ner-up squad. 
The difference has less to do with wins, although the Irish won the Big East West Division title for the first time this sea­son, and more to do with how the wins come. 
At midseason, people were doubting the Irish big-time, and so the Irish stepped it up by winning eight in a row. 
After dropping a disappoint­ing home decision to Seton Hall, the questions were back. Notre Dame responded by one-upping Boston College on a game win­ning shot by Martin Ingelsby. 
When the division title await­ed a winning Irish team. they poured it on against Virginia Tech. They played their most unselfish basketball of the sea­son, with Murphy and lngelsby sharing key roles with forwards Harold Swanagan and Ryan Humphrey and shooting guards David Graves and Matt Carroll. 
By the time Notre Dame picked up win No. 18 at Virginia Tech, the team knew it had accomplished its season­long goal -an NCAA Tournament bid. As conference champions. the Irish wouldn't have another sad Selection Sunday. 
So while everybody wanted to pick up wins against UConn and Georgetown, they would be extra -for ratings. There was nothing crucial riding on the outcomes. 
"Now you're playing for 
seeding," Graves said, "but we 
don't understand because 
we've never been in this posi­tion. We wanted to win those games, but we ran into two very good teams tha.t played their best basketball all year." 

Losing to Georgetown didn't kill the season. The coming week is when the wins really start to count. 
"It's nice for somebody that's had the impact that Martin [lngelsby] has on this program to go out of here winning a game," Murphy said. "It wasn't in the cards today. I think he would trade winning today for winning three next week." 
Now it's tournament time, and the Irish are looking to hang two more championship banners. 
The first one is this week. as Notre Dame has a first-round bye in the Big East Tournament. It will play the winner of the Miami-Pittsburgh game Thursday night in the tourney quarterfinals at Madison Square Garden. 
"Now we're going to head up to New York and try to get another one of these trophies." Ingelsby said. 
Then it's on to the NCAA Tournament for the first time in more than a decade. 
"We're not going to be satis­fied just getting in," Ingelsby said. 
The Irish are having fun this year. Winning is part of that, as the older guys, who have been in South Bend long enough to experience losing seasons, know all too well. 
This year, they want to make some noise in the NCAA Tournament. As Brey often says, Murphy's been driving them towards that goal all season long. 
After two years covering these Irish players. I wouldn't doubt their resolve when it matters. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Please Recycle The Observer. 
Attention: ND, SMC, HCC Students, Faculty, and Staff 

EARLY SIGNUPS Monday, March 5-Friday, March 9 Cost: $12 
REGULAR SIGNUPS Monday, March 19-Wednesday, March 2fi Cost: $15 
WHEN and WHERE: 11:00-2:00 pm and 5:00-8:00 pm 1st FLOOR LAFUN BY-ELEVATOR 
WWW.nd.edu/~bkstr/ 

Check out our sponsors! 




page 16 

The Observer . SPORTS Monday, March 5, 2001 
Middle 
continued from page 20 
round, a kind of boxing not seen in the previous bouts of this year's tournament. Both fighters landed enormous punches, and took turns stun­ning each other in the final 30 seconds of the round. 
Early in the second, Heckmann corralled Matassa into tho ropes, but Matassa was able to jab his way out of trouble. landing blows with unough power to send Heckmann to his corner to control his bleeding. 
Even exchanges would punc­tuate the rest of the round. Heckmann finally started to dominate as a result of a bru­tal cxchanie that ended only when the referee gave Matassa a standing-eight count. 
Matassa drove back tleckmann with an array of punches in the beginning of the third round. But the fight slowed as the medical team tended to both fighters' bleed­ing. 
Heckmann caught Matassa in tho corner later in the round, pounding Matassa's head and body. Heckmann started to land punch after punch, and rather than lock­ing up with Heckmann. Matassa continued to throw punches despite obvious fatigue. 
155 Pounds 
The fight between Tom "Frenchman" Pierce and Jeff "The Pittsburgh Kid" Dobosh was a struggle. The two fight­ers engaged in the finest, most exciting bout of the evening ­a fight Pierce won after the referee stopped the fight with 25 seconds left in the third round. 
The fireworks started early. Dobosh stunned Pierce enough to warrant a standing-eight count only suconds after the start of the opening round. Later in the round, Dobosh landed two more lefts. sending Pierce bracing against the ropes and causing a second standing-eight count. 
"Ile caught me with that 
punch in the first," said 
Pierce. "I had to come out 
hard [in the next round] if I 
was going to win." 
Pierce shot out of his corner 
in the beginning of the second 
and began to attack Dobosh. 
eventually landing a full 
power clean hook to Dobosh's 
jaw that sent the graduate stu­
dent to the canvas. 
"When you fight a lefty. you 
need to throw rights," said 
Pierce. "I knew I needed to 
throw more rights after the 
first round." 

Pierce noated into a neutral 
corner, bouncing in the air as 
the referee counted on Dobosh 
and as the crowd arose in a wave. 
Pierce has had especially strong crowd support through­out every round of the Bouts. 
"If you hear you fans cheer­ing while they're wiping your opponents blood off them. that's a huge help," said Pierce. "All my friends got out there." 
Dobosh arose, and immedi­ately Pierce continued the pressure. A strong left sent Dobosh on a trip to the mat again. and the crowd would stand again, and would not sit down until the end of the third round. 
The third round opened with Pierce again attacking Dobosh. At one point the fighters ignored the referee's com­mand to break, and the two fighters had to be physically separated from each other.. 
Dobosh received a standing­eight count after the referee finally stepped between the two fighters, and received a second standing eight after Pierce once again stunned him. 
With the crowd in a frenzy, Dobosh walked to box Pierce again. Pierce put his whole weight behind the first hook he threw, landed it, and Dobosh found himself down for the third time. 
At that point, the referee motioned to the judges that the fight would be called, and Pierce was declared the win­ner at the 1:35 mark in the third round. 
160 Pounds 

Den-nis "Thursday Night" Abdelnour. fighting in his last Bengal Bout as a captain, walked out of the ring like a champion after defeating Joe Smith in a fight called just 55 seconds into the second round. 
"The fight was nothing like I would have expected," said Abdelnour. "He came out throwing and I didn't expect that." 
Smith indeed was throwing hard punches, but Abdelnour was able to avoid being caught by any one punch. 
Abdelnour then landed a 
stunning punch to Smith's 
head, and another hard blow 
later in the round dropped 
Smith to one knee. warranting 
an early standing eight-count. 
"I got lucky with that one 
punch," said Abdelnour. 
"After that l knew I had it." 
The short second round 
would see more of the same. 
as Abdelnour was able to land 
several head-snapping jabs. 
Smith sustained a brutal 
three-punch combination by 

had won the title he had been chasing for four years. 
"The feeling was everything I thought it would be," said Abdelnour. "The emotions just started flowing out of' me." 
1111illlllllWIIICBJI ·Your parents brought you up and made a Notre Dame education possible. Don't you owe them this? 

Senior "Thank You" Plaques 
• 
Two lines ofpersonalization 

• 
Only$ 35.00, this price will increase after break 

• 
Discounts offered on additional plaques 

• 
Look for us in the College of Business atrium: 

• 
Tuesday March 6th 11-1pm 

• 
Wednesday March ih 11-1 pm 



• 
Look for us Wednesdays in Alumni/Senior Bar! 


Please pick a line ofpersonalization: Name: (As it will appear on the plaque) 
. 
"Thank you Morn and Dad" 

. 
"Thank you, Mom" School address: City:

. 
"Thank you, Dad" 

. 
"Thank you, [Other] ($5 charge. Must> 22 characters including spaces) State: 


Zip: Phone: 
This year's quotation: "Education is not the filling ofa bucket, it is the lighting of a fire." -William Butler Yeats Thank you [your choice] for providing the spark. For more information check out: http://www.nd.edu/~mgtclub 
Please make checks payable to the ND Management Club, 200 Lafortune, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
INTERRACE 
Topic: The New Face of America... 
Discussing the census results 


WHEN: Wednesday. March 7 
WHERE: CSC TIME: 5:30 ptn 

Join us for dinner and a discussion! Please RSVP by Monday, March 5 
@1-6841 

Abdelnour that caused the ref­eree to again step in and issue Smith a standing eight-count. 
Abdelnour, smelling the Bengal Bout title he has long coveted, continued to pound Smith. 
After a third standing eight midway into the second round, the referee decided Smith would sustain no more punish­ment, stopped the fight and raised Abdelnour's hand shortly after, and the captain 


Thursday, March 5, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
MEN'S LACROSSE 
Notre Drune wins home opener against Pennsyl,rania, I 0-8 

ERNESTO LACAYO/The Obseiver 

Senior midfielder Chris Young moves upfield in Notre Dame's win over Pennsylvania. nts • Gift Certificates • Guaranteed Satisfaction! 

By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Sports Writer 
When the Notre Dame men's lacrosse players have their backs to the wall, they turn to senior attack Tom Glatzel. 
And Glatzel delivers. 
For the second week in a row, Glatzel scored consecu­tive goals when his team needed them most as the Irish erased a two-goal third period deficit to defeat the University of Pennsylvania Quakers, 10-8. 
"Tom Glatzel is a big time player," Irish head coach Kevin Corrigan said after Notre Dame's home opener on Meyo Field in Loftus. "He is going to do that." 
With the Irish trailing 7 -6 with the 6:51 remaining in the third quarter, Glatzel went to work. With the Irish a man-down following a penalty, senior David Ulrich stole the ball near midfield and passed it to Glatzel in front of the net. Glatzel juked Penn goalie Ryan Kelly and tied the game. 
Glatzel scored again three minutes later. Ulrich once again hit Glatzel with a pass who streaked toward the net from 25 yards away and buried a hard shot past Kelly for the game-winner. 
The goal gave Notre Dame 
its first lead of the game and 
Glatzel his second hat trick of 
the year. Last week against 
Penn State, Glatzel rallied 
the Irish from a two-goal 
deficit with four consecutive 
scores. 
"Second week in a row we 
are down two in the third 
quarter and second week in a 
row we come back to win 10­
8," Corrigan said. "So I guess 
I'll take that every time." 
Steve Bishko followed 
Glatzel's goal 27 seconds 
later with his second of the 
afternoon. Down 9-7 Penn 
scored 90 seconds later to 
close the gap to one. Penn 
attack Kevin Cadin slipped 
undetected into the middle of 
the Irish defense and set up 
directly in front of the goal. 
Adam Solow slipped him a 
pass that Catlin easily con­
verted into a goal. 
Following that mental 
lapse, however, the Irish 
defense toughened up in the 
fourth quarter. A.J. Wright 
and Mike Adams led an Irish 
defense that held Penn score­
less allowed just five shots in 
the four quarter. 
"Right now I am happiest 
that they played well as a 
unit," Corrigan said. 
The No. 10 Irish were not at the top of their game Sunday, according to Corrigan. Although they out­shot Penn 51-24, won 75 per­cent of the face-offs and scooped up 34 ground balls to the Quakers' 27, the Irish 

looked sluggish at times ­especially in the second quarter. 
"We were less that our best ~oday for whatever reason so it's nice to get one when you feel like you gutted it out and made enough plays to win," Corrigan said. 
Although Notre Dame junior Devin Ryan tied the game at two 30 seconds into the period, the Quakers score three straight goals to put 1he Irish in a hole. Peter Scott scored two consecutive goals and Alex Kopicki to give the Quakers a 5-2 lead seven minutes before the half. 
The Irish offense finally showed a little spark with !'i:46 remaining in the period. , Glatzel scored his first goal on the game before senior Chris Young scored 19 sec­onds later to move the Irish · within one. 
In the quarter, the Irish 
picked up only five of the 15 
ground balls and let the 
Quakers control the ball for 
most of the quarter. 
"We didn't have the ball 
the first half. We made some 
mistakes like moving picks 
on our clearing game and 
some stuff like that," 
Corrigan said. "We just didn't 
have the ball. They were very 
patient, very smart offensive­
ly. We don't play take-away 
defense. We play for the 
offense to come to us a little 
bit. If teams want to stall on 
us, it's going to be a slow 
patient game." 
In the third quarter, the 
Irish started to take over ­
outshooting Penn 34-11. The 
offensive sets looked crisper 
and the midfielders con­
trolled the ground balls. 
"We did a good job of not 
losing our poise when we 
went down a couple," 
Corrigan said. "You can start 
trying to do things you don't 
do in that situation. Our guys 
did a good job of sticking to 
what we do." 
The win moved the Irish to 
2-0 on the season. When the 
latest Warrior/Inside 
Lacrosse.com Poll comes out 
March 8, Notre Dame will 
likely move up. Three teams 
ranked in front of the lOth­
ra.nked Irish lost this week­
end. No. 7 Duke lost to No. 6 
Maryland. No. 1 Syracuse 
beat No. 2 Virginia and No. 2 
Princeton defeated No. 4 
John Hopkins. 
rVOTED #f
by people 
who know 

I tanning! 
: I ~,,11 
I 
~ 
2001 Arts & Letters Career Fair -Wed. March 28th 
For Your Best Tan Ever! I Get a Fun Tan! I 
0 I ..._  
1111  ~ I ::  
© 1985 FUN TAN, INC.  :~I W  

I OR an entire Month of bed tanning for only $40. I I AND when you bring in this coupon get 25% off our wide selection of tanning lotions! I 
I 272-7653 NEW University Location State Road 23 & Ironwood I 256-9656 Corner of Grape and McKinley 291-2000 Southland Plaza Ireland & Ironwood 
J

L. ---. --------------------­
Employers Attending: 
AAR Accenture-(formerly Andersen Consulting) AFLAC Alliance for Catholic Education Amate House AmcriCorps AT&T Best Buddies Int. Botta Capital Management, L.L.C. Boys & Girls Clubs of America Boys Hope Girls Hope Cabrini Mission Corps Carson Pirie Scott & Co. Central Intelligence Agency Chicago Public School 
The Children's Campus 
ChildServ 
City of Indianapolis 
City Year-Chicago 
Congressman Tim Roemer D'Arcy Advertising Drug Enforcement Administration E&J Gallo Winery 
The Elkhart Truth 
Enterprise Rent-A-Car 
Federal Bureau of Investigation 
First Source Bank 
The Fund for Public Interest Research Gang Crime Prevention Center Great West Life Group One Trading, LP Hershey Chocolate USA Holy Cross Associates International Foundation of Employee Benefit Plans Interviewing Consultants, Inc. Jordan & Jordan Kaplan Test Prep Kauffman Entrepreneur Intern Program Kirkland & Ellis Legal Services Program of Northern Indiana, Inc. 
Liz Claiborne, Inc. 
Madison Center and Hospital 
Magazine Publishers of America 
Marriott Hotel Mass Mutual Insurance 
May Department Stores 
McKinsey & Company 
Mellon Bank 
Men's Warehouse PaineWebber Peace Corps Profund Systems Mercy Home for Boys & Girls Ogilvy Public Relations 


Ortho-McNeil Pharmaceuticals Onsite Companies SAFECO Insurance Service Employees International Union-Local 880 Share Foundation with the Handicapped Simon & Schuster Starr Commonwealth State Farm Insurance Summerbridge Nation.al Teach for America The Augustinian Volunteer Program TruGreen Chemlawn United Board for Christian Higher Education in Asia 
/National Council ofChurches United States Air Force United States Marine Corps United States Secret Service University Directories 
Apply Through Go Irish: 
The Urban Institute 3/5 Brown & Wood LLP 3/9 
U.S. Dept of Justice 3/9 Saatchi & Saatchi 3/9 
Cover Letter/Resume Drop: 
ABC News Nightline Burns Sports Celebrity Service, Inc. CB Richard Ellis CBS News City of New York Parks & Recreation Comerica Easter Seals Camp Wawbeek Eckerd Youth Alternatives, Inc. ESPN General Mills Grant Park Music Festival JCPenney Co. 
J. Walter Thompson Madison Square Garden National Institute for Social Science Information Northern Kentucky Chamber of Commerce Northwestern Mutual Financial Network 
rrhe McTigue Group Pfizer, Inc. 
Special Recreation Services of Northern Lake County The Bureau ofNational Affairs~ Inc. YAI/National Institute for People with Disabilities 
Young & Laramor-e 


Sponsored by The Career Center .., See Go Irish for Jobs and Career Center Events "° 
..... -------­
~­

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, March 5, 200 I 
WoIDen 
continued from page 20 

entered the game averaging less than seven minutes per game. turned in her best per­formance of the season. The sophomore center grabbed nine rebounds. blocked s.ix shol.s and gave the Irish ,moth­er presence in the middle on defense. 
"They stopped shooting in the lane after a while," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. 
The Irish held the Hoyas to 
24.5 percent shooting, l-of-15 
(16.0 percent) on 3-pointers, forced 22 turnovers and limited Boyas star Katie Smrcka-DutTy to two points in 35 minutes. 
On offense. Notre Dame shot 
58.2 percent from the field, connected on 9-of-16 (56.3 per­cent} 3-pointers. and went on runs of 26-0 and 16-0. 
"We accomplished everything that we wanted to in this game today," McGraw said. "I was very pleased with just about everything that went on." 
Georgetown called three timeouts during the first 13 minutes of the game as Notre Dame opened up a 36-6 lead and went into halftime ahead 44-10. 
In their final two home games of the regular season, the Irish shot just 4-for-13 and 3-for-13 on 3-pointers. 
They still entered the confer­ence tournament ranked first in the nation in 3-point field goal percentage. 
And they showed their supe­rior marksmanship early in the game. Ivey and Ratay both con­nected on a trio of 3s in the first 20 minutes. 

McGraw had a chance to rest her starters in the second half. The reserves played the final 10 minutes and opened up an 84-22 lead with 5:39 left -the largest margin of the game. 
"We're exactly where we want to be right now," McGraw said. "We feel really good about the way we're playing on both ends of the floor. couldn't be happier with where we are." 

STORE NEAREST CAMPUS: In Mishawaka at Indian Ridge Plaza, south of University Moll. 

Monday, March 5, 2001 
The Observer . TODAY page 19 

FOURTH AND INCHES 
Fox TROT 
C2(X]()Blrhnllnll/0!5t t,y~Prl!SS.Sync!icate 
WELCOME To 
iFRUIT. HUG ME. NEVER. 
I SHOULD REMIND YOU 
THAT 1 HAVE ALL OF 
YoVR DooMATMoN III SAVED GAMES ON MY HAllD DISK AND No FLOPPY DRIVE To M.-.ICE 8ACK•UPS. 
~ 

1T'D BE 1' SHAME 
If' SOMEHOW SOME 
CRITIC,._L 81TS GOT FLIPPED IN THE DATA. 
TYLER
TOM KEELEY 
THINGS Couto BE WORSE 

WHATELY 
BILL AMEND 
WWW.foxtrot.com 
SUDDENLY MMM. A IT'S CLEP.R LITTLE To ME WHY F1RMER, YOU'RE MADE 
PLEASE. WITl-4 BULLET· PRooF PLASTICS.
7 
:;i 
" l I 


ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

C O B 
E L L 
LATRI NNERY S H O V E N 5 Y 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
71 Temple area of Jerusalem 72 Problems with theories 73 Spigots 
DOWN 
1 One-celled blob 2 "Black-eyed" girl 3 Burn 4 Heavy footsteps 5 Zippo 6 Grp. that has 
energy users over a barrel? 7 Wash 8 Amino 
9 _ Fox, 1959 American League MV.P. 
10 Perplexed 11 •_ pasa?" 12 Large coffee 
maker 13 Pantry raider 21 Watch chain 22 Gandhi's land 

Puzzle by Nancy Kavanaugh
25 Microbiologist 35 County north of
Salk San Francisco

26 Cover story? 36 "_say a
27 Thanksgiving word"
parade producer 

29 Run-of-the-mill: 37 551, to Caesar Abbr 
40 Kimono sash 
30 Absolute 42 Bit player 

nonsense 31 Places for 43 Barely make, muckety-mucks? with 'our 32 Dams make 
49 Hot dog topper them SO Drench
34 Start of kindergarten 52 Playwright learning Henrik 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name _______________________ Address ___________________ ,..... City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
54 Chopin's 60 List-ending Polonaise abbr. No. 16 in 
61 Broad valley 55 Lasso 62 Employs 56 Hinder, legally 63 Show 57 Flower holders? 64 Prefix with sex 59 Plumb crazy 65 Theater sign 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1·900·420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 

Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1·888·7·ACROSS. 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON 
THIS DAY: Dean Stockwell, Samantha Eggar, Rex Harrison, Penn Jillette, Niki Taylor, Jake Lloyd 
Happy Birthday: Do your own thing and you'll be fine this year. You will win hearts and convince those less spontaneous to join you in whatever direction you decide to follow. Your strong will, quick wit and sheer determi­nation will help you through any pitfalls. Regardless of the path you choose, stay focused ancf you will reach your destination suc­cessfully. Your numbers: 5, 16, 28, 33,40,41 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Uncertainties at home should not be cause for alarm. A move is evident, and the problems that exist will be eliminated. Just bide your time and let things unfold as they may. 00 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
Oear up that overdue correspon­dence. Don't become intimate with colleagues or involved in gossip at work. Pleasure trips will break your budget. Be prepared to make cutbacks. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): It is best not to be tempted to take part in joint financial ventures. You may have difficulties with your stomach if you overindulge or eat spicy foods. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your emotions are likely to take over today. Try hard to work by yourself and not let anyone goad you into a debate. You really need your peace and quiet. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Mak­ing changes to provide your family with a better home-entertainment center will ensure that you will spend more time together. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 

Birthday Baby: You have built-in radar when dealing with people. You are intuitive, sensitive, full of spunk and eager to he[p others. Your insightfulness will help you achieve your life goals. 
(N~d advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenlalast.com, astromate.com.) C2001 Univeml l'Nss Syndicate 
EUGENIA LAST 
Your need to interact with others can be satisfied if you sign up to help worthy organizations. You have a knack for putting things together well, and for paying close attention to small but important details. Your services ·will be valued. 0000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Don't let anyone talk you into doing things that you'd prefer not to do. You need to please yourself for a change instead of everyone else. It's time to follow your own beliefs and not some­one else's. 00 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You are beginning to see things through different eyes. Your awareness is growing, and your motives are changing. Don't be afraid to follow a new direction. You must take control of your future. 00000 
SAGITfARIUS (Nov: Z2-Dec. 21): 
Financial failures are likely if you expanded your interests too quickly. Look into ways of help­ing children or relatives solve their problems without donating your own funds. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan.19): 
You will have regrets if you allow a dispute to get out of hand. Be cautious how you han­dle your business and emotional partnerships. 00 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Look into career opportunities that will lead to a higher earning potential. You need to use your ingenuity if you want to get ahead. Believe in yourself and so will others. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
Wo.rds of love will be dancing thrciugh your head. Get out with that: special person in your life. You need to spend time enjoying the :finer things in life. 00000 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
Helper: Abbr. 5 Hall-of-Fame pitcher Ryan 10 Light greenish-
blue 14 Considerably 15 Swiftly 16 Spin 17 Jacob's twin 18 Great tempter 19 Mailed 20 Not just a fib 23 Lmda Ellerbee's 
• It Goes" 24 Embarrassingly stuck 28 Winter Olympics vehicle 33 Suffix with 
schnou 34 Surrounded by 38 "Lovely" Beatles 
girl 
39 Like some classical columns 
41 Cried one's eyes out 
44 de Guerre (French military award) 
45 Nerd 46 Egyptian fertility 
goddess 47 Clamor 48 Long locks 51 Complete 53 Fairy tale 
monsters 58 Pugilist's 
weapon 63 Kiss 66 Tiny quantities 67 Running behind 68 Memo starter 69 Bathroom item 70 Molecule 
component 



Strong Start 
The No. 10 Notre Dame lacrosse team opened its season with a ro-8 win over Pennsylvania this weekend.
PORTS 
page 17 
O
THE 

page 20 BSERVER 
Monday, March 5, 2001 
WOMEN'S BIG EAST TOURNAMENT 

BENGAL BOUTS 
Irish roll to 89-33 victory in quarterfinals 
By TIM CASEY Assisrnnt Sports Editor 
STORRS, Conn. Whne to begin? How about here -combine 
No. 2 Notre Dame's 89-33 vic­
tory over Georgetown on 
Sunday afternoon with No. 1 Tennessee's 77-74 loss to Vander­bilt one day earlier and the Irish seem des­tined to return to 
the top of the national rank-


ings. Both the Associated Press and ESPN/USA TODAY polls will be released today. 
"Obviously that would be great," said forward Kelley Siemon, who played on Sunday without a wrap on her left wrist for the first time since Jan. 13. "But that's 
where we want to be at the 
end of March." 

Siemon could not script the 
beginning of the month any 
better. 

Besides the imminent esca­
lation to No. 1, several other 
subplots developed during 
Sunday's contest. 

The most encouraging? Probably that the Irish (27 -1 overall, 15-1 in Big East) still dominated while Ruth Riley, 
who was named the Big East player, defensive player and scholar-athlete of the year on Friday night, scored just nine points in 15 minutes. 
When Riley left the game with 16:11 left in the first half, after committing her first foul, the Irish outscored the Hoyas 22-2 in the next eight minutes, before Riley re-entered the game. 
Following his team's 66-53 loss to Notre Dame on Feb. 24, in which Riley scored 21 points, Georgetown coach Patrick Knapp commented how the Hoyas defended Riley well but struggled with Kelley Siemon (13 points). Niele Ivey (10 points) and Ratay (12 points). 
Eight days later, the same trio combined for 44 points but their fellow teammates also turned in solid perfor­mances. 
The reserves accounted for 25 points, all 11 players scored, and no starter played more than 25 minutes. Notre Dame set the Big East tourna­ment record for largest mar­gin of victory and fewest points allowed in the first half. 
"To break (the game) down and analyze it right now, it's the last thing on my mind," Knapp said. "So I'm not going to address that." 
Amanda Barksdale, who 
see WOMEN/pagel 8 
BENGAL BOUTS 


Jeff Dobosh hits the deck after being wailed by Tom Pierce. Pierce knocked down Dobosh three times before the fight was stopped at the 1:35 mark In the third. 
Heckinann wins split decision against Matassa 
By JEFF BALTRUZAK Spons Writer 
The middleweights treated the Friday night crowd at the Bengal Bouts to a spectacular show of boxing action, as one fight was decided on a nar­row split decision and the other two bouts were ended not by the final bell. but by the referee. 
150 lbs. 

In the end, it was a brawl. And Brock "Landers" Heckmann proved to be the best brawler. Heckmann bat­tled his way past Chris "Shezzy" Matassa in a split decision for the Bengal Bouts title in a fight that produced savage exchanges and bleed­ing on both sides. 
"Let's just day I wasn't planning on winning on points," said Heckmann. 
In the first round, Matassa tried to set the tone with his huge reach advantage, throw­ing jab after jab. 
He landed several clean jabs, but Matassa could not establish any consistent domi­nation as Heckmann slipped his own jab between Matassa's gloves, despite a much shorter reach. 
"I wanted to get inside quicker," said Heckmann. "I wanted to move around and 
stay in once I got in." 
The first clue that the fight would be a brawl came in the first round, as the boxers locked up, and Heckmann threw Matassa across the ring in an attempt to escape the hold. 
After the incident, the fight would descend into a who­can-throw-more-punches contest for the rest of the 
see MIDDLE/page 16 

Thompson, Ryan claim Bouts titles 
By KATIE HUGHES Spons Writer 
Josh "The lledemon" 
Thompson has always had the 
unique ability to focus on his 
own form and to find his rhythm 
amidst the wild crowd and the 
toughest opponents. 
Thompson found his focus once again Friday and won a unanimous decision against Scott "The Dark Horse" Duba in the 185 class of the Bengal Bout finals, finally earning the cham­pionship he had waited four years for. 
"I was more nervous than I've ever been in my entire lifo before the fight," said Thompson. "Knowing it was my last shot at a championship, I was a wreck going into it." 
With a crowd of hometown South Bend supporters and his family cheering Thompson on, the fight began. In round one, Duba started in with thrne-four jab combinations, then pushed for the brawl. Thompson came back with his one-two hook, focusing on what he knew he had to do. Duba returned with some wild jal.Js and made impact with his upper cuts. 
"Duba came at me harder than everyone's come at me before," Thompson said. "It was kind of shocking to me. The hardest thing was to fight my fight at all. He was crowding me, and I couldn't move around and and fight him the way I wanted to. 
"I felt like I had no control at all in the first round," said Thompson. 
As voices from outside the ring yelled, "Get em JT," Duba showed the first signs of losing some control of the fight. Thompson came back with some more left-right jabs, using his strong left and following through tenaciously. 
In round two, Duba started off with a few strong jab combina­tions and good upper cuts, but then Thompson finally found the reach he had been looking for the whole round. A strong left hook from Thompson finished the round. 
It seemed that Thompson had been waiting for Duba to get tired, to overpower him at a weak moment, but Duba's armor wouldn't crack. 
"Patience is the key for me, 
see BENGALS/page 12 . 
SPORTS • Big East Tournament • Big East Tournament ~ vs. Michigan 
vs. Miami/Pitt

vs. Virginia Tech Saturday, 11 a.m. Thursday, 6:40 p.m. 
Today, 6 p.m. 
ATA • 
Lacrosse Baseballvs, Michigan
GLANCE (!) at Rutgers at Pacific
Thursday, 4 p.m. Friday, 3 p.m. Saturday, l p.m. 




