Observer editors respond to rape coverage concerns
THUNDERSTORMS 
Friday 

Amid complaints of irresponsible and unethical journalism, the Observer
('} 

HIGH 820 
SEPTEMBER 7,

editors explain the coverage of last Friday's alleged rapes on campus.
LOW69° 
2001

viewpoint . page 11 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXV NO. 9 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


Cmnpus goes Live! with Regis 
• 

• Students, band gather for talkshow 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER Assistanc News Editor 
Besides lining up for football and basketball tickets, there are few things that will get stu­dents out of bed at 7 a.m. ­until they hear that Regis Philbin is hosting "Live! With Regis and Kelly" on God Quad at 8 a.m. 
By the time the program began, about 300 students had gathered around Philbin to watch the broadcast, holding signs and cheering when the celebrity prompted them. 
One student's sign reading "Kelly -Wish You Were Here," referring to Philbin's co-host Kelly Ripa who was in the New York studio, got her a few seconds on the air. 
"I got to the quad around seven and started to make my sign. Regis came up and asked me what the sign was for and I said sorrv because it wasn't about him. I asked him if he needed a co-host for the show," said sophomore Katie Cardinali. 
When Ripa began to lament the fact that she never got to travel and didn't have any fans, Philbin motioned for Cardinali to come forward and she held up her sign on the air. 
"As he was leaving, Regis told me 'There, I got you your co-host,"' said Cardinali. 
After filming his program, Philbin reflected on his time at Notre Dame at the Morris Inn. Philbin said that his days on 
campus have been invigorat­
ing. "This is my favorite place on earth. No place compares to 
see REGIS/page 6 


. Donors break ground for new performing arts center 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER Assistant News Editor 
Benefactors dug into freshly laid sod Thursday as ground was broken for the Marie P. DeBartolo Performing Arts Center on the south end of the DeBartolo Quad. 
"When we were driving up, I thought, 'Who's getting buried?' The tent and the fresh grass give off the aura of a funeral, but instead of burying someone, we are here doing the groundbreaking of a won­derful new facility," said University President Father Edward Malloy. 
At the site, Malloy said a prayer and blessed the site, and the benefactors were given shovels with which to turn up the new sod. 
"I heard a rumor that this dirt has been pre-turned so as not to labor us," said Malloy. 
The seven benefactors of the new center. their guests and University officials gathered at the Chapel of Notre Dame Our Mother at the Coleman-Morse Center for a mass presided by Malloy and concelebrated by Executive Vice President Father Timothy Scully. During the mass, Malloy emphasized that the new center would pos­itively influence cultural oppor­tunities on campus. 
"We've always lacked that quality facility that can make available to everyone that comes to us a chance for a full exposure to the best of what can be available through the 
see CENTER/page 4 


Arts and Letters launches game day lecture series 
By JOE ACKERMAN 
News Writer 
Football fans can now get a bit of academic discussion to go with their bratwursts and beer on game days through the new Saturday Scholars lectures. 
The brainchild of Mark Roche, dean of the College of Arts & Letters, and Greg Sterling, associate dean of fac­ulty, the Saturday Scholars series aims to incorporate intel­lectual discourse on contempo­rary issues into the overall game-day experience. 
Roche said that as the "heart and soul" of the University, the inclusion of an academic ven­ture into the pageantry of foot­ball weekends complements the mission of the University. 
"In the past, we have not even tried to engage the community intellectually on football week­ends," Roche said. 
Another goal of the program is to allow the South Bend com• munity the opportunity to hear from top professors. The lec­ture series serves as another component of the college's com­munity outreach programs, which include the Teachers as Scholars program, where facul­ty work with high school instructors to teach at the South Bend Center for the Homeless. 
"We thought we should reach out to the broader public," Roche said. 
The Saturday Scholar lectures will take place on all six home­game Saturdays this fall in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. Lectures will begin at 10 a.m. for games with a 1:30 p.m. kickoff and at 11 a.m. for games with a 2:30 p.m. start. 
The series opens on Sept. 22 with an interactive perfor­mance by Actors from the London Stage. who call Notre Dame their American home. 
Future lectures will span an array of topics such as psychol­ogy, theology, economics and Irish studies and will be given by University professors consid­ered leaders in their fields. 
F. Clark Power. chair of the Program of Liberal Studies. is impressed and excited by the lineup of speakers planned. In addition to himself and the London company, other lectur­ers on tap include psychology professor John Brokowski on Oct. 6, theolo·gy professor Lawrence Cunningham on Oct. 13, economist Teresa Ghilarducci on Oct. 20 and Keough Irish studies chair Seamus Deane on Nov. 3. 
"It is certainly an honor to be in the company of these schol­ars," Power said. 
Power said he was excited when he received a letter from a former student expressing gratitude that the alumni are being offered an intellectual opportunity on game days. 
Despite all the other events going on during football week­ends at Notre Dame, both Roche and Power are optimistic that people will be receptive to the lecture series. 
"We're not going to have 90,000 people there, but we couldn't accommodate that many anyway," Power said. 
Contact Joe Ackerman at ackerman.4@nd.edu. 




Friday, September 7, 2001

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Ode to· Nicole 
Hogarty 
When I arrived in South Bend a few short weeks ago, I had a small bet on the table with a friend from my hometown. Although we knew very little about our future roommates. I insisted that mine would be the stranger of the two, and she insisted the same. It was one of those bets that we both were secretly hop­ing that we wouldn't win. 
The first morning on campus declared the win­ner of that bet and set the tone for the year as my East Coast roommate fell face-first out of the top bunk while reaching to turn off her alarm. 
After that experience, not a day has gone by when my roommate, Nicole Hogarty, has not made me laugh in some way at her expense. After falling out of the bed, Nicole no longer bothers reaching down to turn off the alarm; she sleeps through it. 
When I left for the weekend, Nicole's alarm was blaring for 30 minutes. She did not wake up in the morning until the authorities came knocking on our door to see if a smoke alarm was going off. 
During the first week of class alone, Nicole managed to oversleep three out of five days, so the rest of the year is promising. 
While most people would be irritated after sleeping through a class, Nicole casually sums this common event of her daily routine by sim­ply stating, ..I suck at life." 
When she is not sleeping the day away, Nicole can be seen around campus living life in a big way. It's nothing unusual to see her salsa dancing with her stuffed animals, rollerblading around campus in full-length spandex pants, or heading to the dining hall in gold shoes and diamond earrings. 
Just when I fear that I am nearing the brink of insanity, moments with Nicole reassure me that I am perfectly normal. 
While I am quite content with smuggling bananas and cookies out the dining hall, Nicole has her sights set on the life-size poster of Tony the Tiger that she hopes to sieze by the end of the semester. I recieve daily updates on the status of "Mission Tony." 
Aside from her constantly refering to me as "Sqeales," I am beginning to truly enjoy her company and all of her bizarre ways. 
Looking back, I wish I had placed money on that roommate bet becuase Nicole definitely has the competition beat. I would add the win­nings to my fund to buy her a louder alarm clock. 
· Contact Sheila kgts at egts0236@saint­marys.edu. I 
/ 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

' 

CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer {USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday 1hrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
THIS WEEK IN ND/SMC HISTORY 
Graduate student's body found 
Monda~Sept. 5, 1994 
The body of a Notre Dame graduate student in 
the mathematics department was discovered in a wooded area off campus. The student was believed by St. Joseph County police to have died of self-inflicted injuries. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

BEYOND CAMPUS 
GW to close classes fearing protests 
WASHINGTON,D.C. 

George Washington University will­cancel classes and evacuate resi­dence halls Sept. 27 to Oct. 2 during anticipated demonstrations sur­rounding World Bank and International Monetary Fund meet­ings that will be held that weekend, the University announced Thursday morning. 
Although the meeting are sched­uled for Sept. 29-30, GW's Foggy Bottom campus will close for five days because of the large number of protesters anticipated. D.C. officials expect as many as 100,000 visitors and protesters that weekend. 
IMF and World Bank officials origi­nally planned a five-day conference but cut it to two days to minimize the impact of the expected protests. 
INDIANA UNIVERSITY 
Graduates find fewer job options 
MINNEAPOLIS Ahmed Siddiqui faced a tighter job market when he graduated last May from the Carlson School of Management than his University of Minnesota class­mates encountered the previous spring. Nationally, employers expect to hire 19.7 percent fewer college graduates in 2001-02 than in 2000-01, according to the National Association of Colleges and Employers' Job Outlook 2002 survey. Siddiqui said he was fortu­nate to find a job with IBM but felt his entrepreneurial studies major gave him an advantage when applying. Corporations are looking for students who understand corporate venturing and the other skills taught in the entrepreneurial studies program, said Alan Fine, director of undergraduate entrepreneurial studies. Students learn finance, management and interperson­al skills in the program. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather~ forecast for daytime conditions and hi h temperatures / 
,,. 

"The challenge here is you've got a huge amount of protesters forecast­e d and you've got barricades through campus," said Director of University Relations Gretchen King. "It would be extremely difficult to 
~-~-~4.Q.Qo~~ 
Showers T-slorms Rain R;,;ies S~~ Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy Via Assoc,ate<J Press GraphiesNer 
UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND 
Student dead, cause unknown 
COLLEGE PARK 

A 20-year-old student was pronounced dead hours after being found on the porch of his fraternity house Wednesday morning, police said. The cause of death is unknown and is being investigated by the Prince George's County Police Criminal Investigation Division, police said. Alexander Eugene Klochkoff of North Bellmore, N.Y., was discovered at 8 a.m. by a student who then called police, said campus spokesman George Cathcart. Upon arriving at the house, police and emer­gency medical personnel found Klochkoff to be unre­sponsive. Klochkoff was transported to Washington Adventist Hospital. where he was pronounced dead.Police declined to comment on whether they sus­pect foul play or if alcohol had any role in Klochkofr s death. The state medical examiner's office in Baltimore will be performing an autopsy on the body. Though the criminal investigation department is looking into the death, police were careful not to call the incident a crime or homicide. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 

The AccuWeather4 forecast for noon, Thursday, Sept. 7 
60 Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

.&...A.
.......... • e 
•
COLO WARM STATIONARY 

Preuure-: ® © ... ODD Htgh Low Shower• R¦ ln T" ¦torms Flurriaa Snow ace Vra AssoattJoa' Pross  Sunny  Pt. Cloudy  Cloudy  
Atlanta Baltimore Boston Chicago Houston  87 84 85 81 85  69 63 66 69 75  Las Vegas Memphis Milwaukee New York Philadelphia  93 88 80 84 86  72 73 65 65 66  Portland 77 Sacramento 95 St. Louis 88 Tampa 88 Washington. DC:_ 84  52 59 73 76 67  
...  . ..  

Police crack down on parties Thursday, Sept. 3, 1987 South Bend Police Captain Patrick Cottrell expressed his intention to break up off-campus parties and arrest students for underage drinking. He noted that the police had been lenient in the first weeks of the semester but that in the coming 
•
months offending students could expect strict law enforcement. 
continue operating on any normal basis at all." 
No classes will be held and all facilities, including residence halls, will be closed at the Foggy Bottom campus, according to a press release from University President Stephen Joel Trachtenberg. The Mount Vernon campus will remain open but no classes will be held there during this period. 
Students should go home, stay with friends off campus or at Mount Vernon during the scheduled clo­sure, King said. · 
"It's a good reco.mmendation to go home, and we're going to be working with people who can't do that," she said. "It's a challenge and we're looking for students to help us get through this event." 
Friday, Septc:mber 7, 2001 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
GSU focuses on healthcare 
By ANDREW THAGARD News Writer 
\Vhile most Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students headed home for the summer, it was business as usual for the Cr•aduate Student Union. The CSU was busy organizing summer social events, holding monthly council meetings and gearing up for the academic year. 
This fall, recently elected GSU President Gabriela Burgos and vice president Kishori Deshpande intend to continue to fulfill their cam­paign promises. They plan to focus on improving healthcare, 
Career Center on offering more services to graduate stu­dents. 
"In the past, most of the activities in the Career Center were geared toward under­graduates," Deshpande said. 
The two hope to change this by working with the Center to offer services such as resume writing and career placement for graduate students. They also hope to form alliances with the Alumni Association and the Kaneb Center for Teaching and Learning for graduate student networking. 
"This [ensuring career placement for graduate stu­dents] is also an important 
promoting the 
"We need to find the 
CSU and 
optimum point where 
working with 
Office of students are happy with 
Information 
the cost and benefits. 
Technologies 
That·s a crucial point . .,
(OIT) and the Career Center to improve Gabriella Burgos
graduate stu­
Graduate Student Union
dent services. 
president
Over the summer, com­mittee chair­man Adrienne Minerick 
recruitment tool for the University," Deshpande added. "They have been very receptive toward our requests." 
Improving communica­t i o n between the GSU, gradu­ate students and the administra­
worked with University Health tion is especially important to Services, the Graduate School Burgos and Deshpande. and Student Activities to cre­Their goal is to make gradu­
ate pamphlets designed to a.J,e students more visible inform graduate students within the University commu­about healthcare "Do's and Don'ts." 
n ity and make people more 
aware of the GSU-something 
they have accomplished in 
part through the creation of a 
publicity chairman. 

"The main idea is to reach 
as many people as possible," 
Deshpande said. "They [the 
publicity/PR committee] have 
done a fabulous job." 

This year, Burgos and Deshpande plan to increase awareness of the CSU through the creation of a corporate logo system. Their goal is to establish a consistent, instant­ly recognizable logo for GSU that can be used on postings, letterheads and T-shirts. 
"The idea of the GSU logo is to help identify our organiza­tion," Burgos said. "We want to reflect professionalism." 
The GSU plans to announce a corporate logo-designing contest this semester. 
While their long list of goals may seem daunting, Burgos and Deshpande are confidant that they can tackle them and lead the GSU into another suc­cessful year, especially with University support and the dedication of graduate stu­dents. 
"We are really fortunate as officers to have an excellent team," Burgos said. "I think it is really rewarding to see the results from the summer. This motivates us to work harder for graduate students. I think it's going well." 
WHAT HAVE I GOTTEN MYSELF INTO? 



We have lunch buffet seven days a weeli.. 
. 
1Oo/o discount for all students and staff. 
. 
We are at the corner of Grape Road & McKinely at K-Mart Plaza. 
. 
Phone: 254-9070 
"They are really written succinctly, to the point," Deshpande said of the pam­phlets. 
The GSU also plans to make :~:e:::.:::::~•J,~. the information available in 
~m~t*:~: Russian, Spanish, Hindi and ,,.~···· Chinese to further assist grad-¾li~t 
::~;~~:~~~=~!~::di~h~0 ~n:~~: l f;;< • l :~Wtfi?tfiatllr 
ancejargon," Deshpande said. -"ef/t, ,,,1..,,.IIM""*-'$%1<,M~­
In addition, the GSU plans to propose a more complete health insurance plan by the end of January. 
"We need to find the opti­mum point where students are happy with the cost and benefits," Burgos said. "That's a crucial point." 
In information technology, the CSU has reached a service agreement with OIT to man­age and update graduate stu­dent computer clusters. 
The GSU is in the midst of negotiations with OIT over the recent paper rationing at 
•n1,:.,. ••,.....w,•,•.•,•••.'•""I.•' ~· ,,.... , ......1,..... "t'••·"'·:f........... ........,.,.,,,:;_~·,·~,•1... _..,...,·•· 
compu t er clusters . Samee r :t:~~l.fi@Jtf,:IM!M ::• :)1[ :l*\ij~ :~~f//f-:ijij't:i··fw{~Jf":;·.::•~~ 
ViJ' ay, informa tion teehnology ·•·,:,:~.wlt.:•:•:•m:•:•.w,:,;,m:• .. ..• .....~:-:•,...:•:S!:......!:@....W:~::t. •· ~~.: '«$;:.:~•~. ,.. .. 
committee chairman, does not ~i:~::::tltf::::~::::::?~~:~>:-1:::: ,::::~::=::~::::::::::::::~:::::,::::::1it:~:~::~:~:::::::::~t::< r,•.-;::r;.~~~:· ::;.::t:/::S}\:~~~~}~ find the 1,000 page allowance · i![M1£i]1lf15:: :,.:-~!\ll&l~l~t~IB..·..... ,·.,.:• ;l :: ::i 
a d CqUate fOr g r ad U ate S t U-.•.•.,y,:,•,·,.w.•,•,,•.-,•,•·········•,¼*'« ,•.,w,,,•,.w.•.w;,.w.•1HNh',W.•.•.•·····«•,.w 
dents. The CSU is proposing a $ff;f'¢:"ll{~~l,~$~J.f~..:::.::• Jfij'~'~(M&f·:.·.:\ ;.') :),.
·•·f~.•..tJ.V..(:J.......:J;IWJl,J~. ··f'· :~tt.~l~:~~i:,..,w,:)··..,:•. ...•. ,.,. ,~ll*l.
1111 n l mum 2 , 0 0 0 page ,•.n.,w.,,....,........,......,...,.....·.wwxww·•x•. ·.'(f,.i''••'••······· 1•••••••• 1••• 1···•·N••.,,•. '"¼'•~•:•~..-..·····.-.-.·.-....f ..,......y.
~~:~::::::~:~:?-::::::f::::::::::~:~:~::::~:~:~::::i:::!~~::~?-:~~t.::::.••:~:~~;~~:=:~~;:t:~:::::::::~~:::::~:::~::~::::::~:::::::~::,:~::::~~i:::i::,t~=~$~r.,m~f:~
allowance and a 4,000 page 
limit for students working on their dissertations, but has yet 
Er:i.:... •

to hear from Orr. Burgos and Deshpande also 
~he~! 
plan to continue talks with the 
Yo..."re :l'i:...a,I.I.y 
o-ver a,:n..d. ,.._ 
INDIANA 
AUTO RATES 

IIa,ppy 
COULD SAVE 
b:i.:rth• 
YOU MONEY 
da,y. 
289-1993 
Love,
jdavf:ond@aol.com 

Mom, Dad and Ryan John Davenport Go Irish/Beat Huskers! 
(near campus) 

Friday, September 7, 2001 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 


School year opens with ble~ings 
By ANNE MAHONEY News Wrirer 

A Circle of Blessings will bring Saint Mary's students together to pray at various campus loca­tions and unite students spiritu­ally. 
Today's ceremony will replace the procession to Notre Dame as the opening ceremony for the academic year at Saint Mary's. 
"Instead of an opening liturgy in a single location on campus, we want to include everyone on campus in a very active and visi­ble way," said College President Marilou Eldred. 
The ceremony will begin at 
11 :15 a.m. in front of Holy Cross Hall. From there the group will process across the campus mak­ing various stops at which prayers will be read and songs will be sung. At each stop, more people are invited to join the group and continue the proces­sion. The march will conclude at Le Mans Hall at 12:30 p.m. 
The Administrative Council will address the group and off er a prayer commissioning the aca­demic year. 
that they've got going, I'm hop­Hall, in honor of his late wife. 
Lunch will be provided follow­ing that this little stage that I'm Notre Dame trustee and bene­
ing the ceremony. involved in will be a turning factor Arthur Decio surprised 
"This is an opportunity to point in somebody else's life. his wife Patricia by announcing 
include all members of the Saint "You've gotta start preparing Thursday that the center's 350­
Mary's community and reflect for this business at an early age. seat main theatre will be named 
on who we are as a Catholic You've gotta know what you in her honor as a gift. In adqi­
institution," said Linda Timm, want to do, you've gotta rule tion to the underwritten halls, 
vice president for Student yourself to do it. I never took the center will contain the 
Affairs. that opportunity; I never took offices of the Department of 
The full Circle of Blessings will that chance.... So I'm hoping Film, Television and Theatre, a 
continue on Sunday at the that this stage will do that for 200-seat cinema theatre and a 
Masses celebrated in the some student." 100-seat organ and chorale 
chapels of LeMans. Holy Cross Prominent South Bend civic hall. 
and Regina halls. leader and philanthropist Judd Leighton is underwriting the 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at Contact Anne Mahoney at
center's 900-seat concert hall, 
brodfuehrer. l@nd.edu. 
maho9505@saintmarys.edu.

the Judd and Mary Lou Leighton 


¦ 

Financing On New & Used Vehicles 
It'll Get Your Motor Bonnin'! 
=-··-J ~ 
#'' I NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You can bank on us 
to be better 219/239-6611 • www.ndfcu.org 

*Annual Percentage Rate. As lowas 6.9%APR is available for various financing terms. Rates subJect to change without notice. Certain 1 ~---~Q_A· 1 
restrictions may apply. No refinances of Notre Dame Federal Credit Union loans apply. Offer ends September 30,2001. Independent of the University. -· 

Center 
continued from page I 

performing arts, whether it's music or stagecraft, television or radio. This will provide a chance for us to elevate the common life of our community," said Malloy. 
Malloy also made a commit­ment to getting the best per­forming arts faculty. 
"If I look back on the history of the University, when I was a student here the fine and per­forming arts were rather unde­veloped. What we've been able to do since then is to put into place departmentally and in terms of the faculty we've attracted to the University ­some of the best faculty avail­able in the fine and performing arts," said Malloy. 
The center is scheduled to be completed in 2094 and will cost in excess of $50 million. The majority of the project -$33 million -has been underwrit­ten by a gift from the late Edward DeBartolo in honor of his wife Marie, after whom the building was named. DeBartolo's children, Edward DeBartolo Jr. and Denise DeBartolo York, were on hand today for the ceremonies. 
Television personality Regis Philbin donated $2.75 million for the center. The 100-seat stu­dio theater in the center will be named after him. Philbin hopes the theater will encourage stu­dents to overcome fear and be involved in the performing arts. The television personality said he was tentative about starting a career in the performing arts during his days at Notre Dame. 
"I shied away from all the debating classes and the toast­master situation here. Wash­ington Hall productions came and went and I just sat here frozen, scared to death. I went to WNDU once and I couldn't even knock on the door," Philbin said. "So that's why I'm interested in this development 
-1 
I 
T-Sbiru 
Cap1 
Polo Shirts Jackets AdS 


Design Services Quick Printing Commercial Printin1 Embroldery Screen Prin 
Ask about our new DORMSTORE! Call 800-813-2113 
3112 Lexin2ton Park Drive, Elkhart. In 46514 
---·-·­


ATI 


Friday, September 7, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Police shoot hostage-taker: Chinese police shot dead a security guard who stabbed his colleague and then held an 11­year-old boy hostage at knifepoint for six hours, an official newspaper said Thursday. A photo in the China Daily showed the boy, Wang Chubin, grimacing as Cheng Zhiyong pressed a knife to his throat during the stand­off Tuesday with police in the southern city of Shenzhen. The 29-year-old guard fled after stabbing his colleague and at first grabbed a 6-year-old child as a hostage. But Wang, a fourth-grader at a Shenzhen school, pleaded with Cheng to take him instead, the newspa­per said. "Witnesses marveled at the young boy's poise," it said. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Iowa court strikes visitation law: 
The Iowa Supreme Court unanimously struck down a law Thursday that gave grandparents the right to spend time with their grandchil­dren, ruling it interfered with parental rights. "It exalts the socially desirable goal of grand­parent-grandchild bonding over the constitu­tionally recognized right of parents to decide with whom their children will associate," the court said. 
Anti-drug bid concerns groups: A 
coalition of civil rights and health groups expressed concern Thursday that President Bush's choice to lead the nation's fight against drugs would sacrifice prevention and rehabilitation programs in favor of punishing users. The Coalition for Compassionate Leadership on Drug Policy also criticized John Walters for denying that young black men are disproportionately jailed on drug charges and for opposing reforms to mandatory minimum sentencing requirements. The coalition does not endorse or oppose nominees, but individ­ual members spoke harshly about Walters, promising serious opposition if he does not soften his views. 
IN DIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Rape victims offered free pill: 
Planned Parenthood of Greater Indiana will offer emergency contraception free to rape victims at its 38 clinics. Often referred to as the "morning-after" pill, the emergency con• traception consists of two high doses of birth control pills. The first dose must be taken within 72 hours of unprotected sex, and the second 12 hours later. The process is 7 5 per­cent effective at preventing pregnancy if done properly, according to Planned Parenthood. 
Market Watch September 6 
Dow 
9840.84 -192.43 
Jones 

Composite Same: 
Volume: 210 NIA 
AMEX: 863.33 -3.04 
NASDAQ: 1705.64 -5337 
NYSE: 577.31 -11.16 
S&P 500: 1106.40 -25.34 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 INDX (QQQ) -4.05 -1.43 33. 90 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -3.23 -0.48 14 .40 INTEL CORP (INTC) -4.99 -1.37 26.10 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -9.53 -1.15 10.92 MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) -2.98 -1. 72 56. 02 
Associated Press 
MODESTO, Calif. 
A grand jury was sched­uled Thursday to review allegations that Rep. Gary Condit obstructed justice when he asked flight attendant Anne Marie Smith to sign an affidavit stating they didn't have an affair. 
The Stanislaus County Grand Jury was expected to meet at 4 p.m. in a hearing to take up unusual allegations made last week by Smith, said Marnie Ardis, the county employee who oversees the grand jury. 
The civil grand jury pro­ceedings are normally secret but Ardis said she was willing to confirm the agenda in this case because Smith went public when her lawyer, James Robinson, held a news conference on the Stanislaus County court­house steps after filing the complaint. 
The 19-member panel 
will decide whether to investigate Smith's claims, or reject her citizen's com­plaint. 
The decision won't be released to the public, but if the complaint is rejected, Smith and her lawyer would be notified by letter, Ardis said. 
It would still be up to prosecutors to decide whether to pursue a crimi­nal case, and prosecutor Jim Brazelton said Stanislaus County isn't likely to take any action based only on Robinson's legal maneuvers. 
Smith, who said she and Condit had a sexual rela­tionship for 10 months, claims the congressman and his intermediaries tried to get her to sign a false affidavit denying they had an affair. 
Condit has denied asking anybody to lie, and his attorney, Abbe Lowell, said Smith and the congress­man apparently have dif­ferent definitions of the word ··relationship." 

ETHIOPIA 
Justice Ministry bans women's group 
frozen, Meaza said. has a long history of oppressive gov­
Associated Press 
Justice Ministry official Afework ernment. 
Ghilay was quoted in the state media The association was set up in 1995 
ADDIS ABABA as saying the group has engaged "in and has won a reputation for provid­
Ethiopia has banned a women's activities outside the aims and func­ing effective legal assistance, partic­group that organized demonstrations tions of the association." ularly for poor women who cannot to protest violence against women, a 'These activities were carried out afford the high cost of litigation. group member said Thursday. under the guise of a civic organiza­It has also been calling for amend­
The Ethiopian \Vomen Lawyers tion," he said without elaborating. ing Ethiopia's family laws and civil Association was told by the Justice In February, the group organized a code to give women equal rights in Ministry it had violated the "ethical rare protest against domestic vio­such case as divorce, inheritance and directives governing civic organiza­lence in which some 1,000 women related issues. tions," said Meaza Ashenafie, the mare hed to the office of Prime Faiza Mohamed of the New York­
group's executive director. Minister Meles Zenawi and parlia­based international women's rights 
The ministry informed the associa­ment to deliver petitions demanding group, Equality Now, said her orga­tion Monday of the suspension of its more police protection and harsher nization had written to the Ethiopian license, four days after the action sentences against offenders. The Justice Ministry and Ethiopian was reported in Ethiopia's state-run protest included a candlelight vigil. embassies in Washington and media, Meaza told The Associated It was the first public act of its kind Nairobi, Kenya, to support the Press. The group's bank account was in the Horn of Africa nation, which Ethiopian group. 


page 6 Friday, September 7, 2001 
The Observer . NEWS 

Regis 
continued from page I 
Notre Dame. No place, I've 
been all over the world. This is 
it. The vibrations around this 
campus, the spirits that linger 
here, the tradition, the mys­
tique. It's got_it all. I think it's 
the greatest place on earth," 
Philbin said. 
Philbin enjoyed his interac­tions with students, partially because he is envious of their ability to spend another year of their lives here. He also won­dered if Notre Dame in 2001 would even accept him as a stu­dent because the University has transformed into a top-notch school. 
He took his celebrity status on campus during the last two days in stride. 
"It warms my heart. They're all cheering and yelling and asking for autographs and all that. It's a lot of fun and I don't mind it at all, posing for the pictures and doing all that. I enjoy it. I just remember what it was like for me and how it brings me back to the best years of my life, right here," said Philbin. 
Philbin's program included clips with him feeding his duck at the lake -a favorite activity from his student days, a visit to the Grotto, a tour of the football locker room and the Stadium and a visit to his old room. At the end of the live program, the Notre Dame Band played the victory march. 
The live program on location did present problems for the show. At the beginning of the show, Philbin could not hear his co-host in New York and had to be prompted by a producer's cell phone to start the show. 
Later, Philbin was talking to a producer at Notre Dame when the show returned from a com­mercial and switched unexpect­edly to a live feed of him. Philbin attempted to play off the error, but the tension was obvious to those present when 
for ticket information contact the Saint Mary's Box Office at 2 84-46 2 6 • 

Philbin spoke to a New York producer on a cell phone. 
"All you've gotta do is roll the piece of tape. Can you guys do that back there? You guys are really screwing up back there, you know it?" Philbin said over a cell phone. 
Throughout the entire morn­ing, Philbin chided students for skipping class to come see him. After the first segment he told the crowd, "All right, you've been on camera, now go to 
R€00€DV'5 RltC6€0 featuring
Autumn 
R50D€5 
LOCAL SOUTH BEND BAND! 
SEPT. 7, 2001 • 7:30 P.M. MOREAU LITTLE THEATRE 
school!" When some students left later, they yelled to Philbin, "Sorry, Regi~. I've gotta go to class", and he responded "Yeah, I hope so." 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at brodfuehrer. l@nd.edu. 

CJ 5 417 N. Michigan Str. 
//PARTY ON THE PATIO" 
Wedn~sday -9/5 KARAOKE / 10pm -i4m I $2.00 Night 
Thursday -9/6 Ricky Joe LIVE / 10:30 -1~m .Friday-917 LIVE BAND ·9prn --1am Satutcia)( -9/H 
N.D. / NEBRI\SKA GAME KlCKOFF7pm WATCH THE GA·ME ON 64" T.V. 
LIVE MVSIC AFTER GAME! All ''Out on the P4tio" -Specials Evety Night -
Annan expects racism conference compromise 
Associated Press 
UPPSALA, Sweden 
U. N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan said Thursday he expected a compromise would be reached at the international racism confer­ence, where disagreements have erupted over the Middle East conflict and an apology for slavery. 
"Serious work is being done to clean up the lan­guage (of the final report) ... to get the delegations 

to agree "/ think it can be done in agree on a that they'll document
the spirt ofgive-and-take
withdraw or for them
and in the spirit ofcom-
all the to come upoffensive promise." with a lan­
language," guage that he said dur­large num­
Kofi Annan
ing a ques­bers of del­
tion -and -U.N. Secretary General egations 
answer ses­sion after a speech at Uppsala University. 
"I think it can be done in the spirit of give-and-take and in the spirit of compro­mise," he added. 

Delegates at the U.N. con­ference in Durban, South Africa, were scrambling to bridge the gap between a call by Arab states for the confer­ence to condemn Israeli practices as racist and the European Union's refusal to allow the conference to take sides in the conflict. 
Disagreement over that and the legacy of slavery and colonialism threatened to derail the conference's intended goal of creating a global agreement on how to fight racism. 
The United States and Israel walked out Monday after the Arab states rejected a compromise proposed by Norway. 
"Unfortunately. often at these conferences, the give­and-take and the decisions are taken at the last minute, but I'm quite hopeful," Annan said. "The Arab group is also very much engaged with a new spirit of compro­mise." 
"The worst case scenario is 
for them 
not to 
dissociate themselves with," he said. 
Annan was in Uppsala, 40 miles north of the capital, Stockholm, to honor Dag Hammarskjold, the Swedish diplomat_ who became the U.N.'s second secretary-gen­eral in 1953. 
Hammarskjold died in a plane crash on Sept. l 8, 1961, while trying to mediate a peace agreement between newly independent Congo and the breakaway province of Katanga. 
Annan said Hammarskjold would find many problems and troubled regions little changed since the organiza­tion was established in 1945 to promote peace through international cooperation. 

Friday, September 7, 2001 page 7 
The Observer . NEWS 
Wildfire forces evacuations 
Associated Press 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. 

A growing wildfire west of Yosemite National Park forced people from their homes Thursday in nine small California communities and damaged an aqueduct, curtail­ing water supplies. 
But elsewhere in the West, cooler temperatures and rain signaled the approaching end of the forest fire season. The nation's largest wildfire, burn­ing 64,000 acres in and near Montana's Glacier National Park, was blanketed with thick fog and high humidity, following a steady rain that stopped the blaze in its tracks. 
"This high humidity is doing us more good than the rain did. ... I've got a feeling the grass won't even burn today," fire information officer Bob McKinney said. 
The National Interagency Fire Center reported 12 major fires burning on more than 203,000 acres Thursday. But the center said eight major fires were con­tained Wednesday. Several of the others were nearing con­tainment, and cooler tempera­tures and rain were expected in several western states. 
The northern California fire, which broke out Wednesday afternoon, had charred about 1,000 acres of heavy brush and timber about two miles from Hathaway Pines, a small com­munity 25 miles northwest of Yosemite. 
About 150 homes were evacu­ated and more were on alert for possible evacuation. At least 60 people spent the night at a shel­ter set up at an elementary school. 
"It was a 4 in the morning, grab-the-dog-and-go type of thing," said Kelly Osborn, prin­cipal of Albert Michelson Elementary School in Murphys, Calif. 
The wildfire destroyed part of an aqueduct that provides water to four communities -Angels, Vallecito, Douglas Flat and Murphys -leaving residents with an estimated two-day sup­ply of water, officials said. They were advised to limit water use. 
Retired nurse Marie Heimback was evacuated Wednesday afternoon from her home in Sunrise Point. "I was looking out of the window and saw smoke coming down the canyon," she said. "Then the fire department came by and gave me 10 minutes to pack a few things." 
Twelve-year-old Hilary Schwartz hurriedly left her Forest Meadows home with her family under a glowing and smoky sky. They managed to grab some personal belongings and their pets -two dogs, two cats, a bird and a hamster. 
SOUTH KOREA 

President encourages engagement 
Associated Press 

SEOUL 
President Kim Dae-jung's engagement policy toward North Korea is the "best option," despite political tur­moil that has weakened his mandate, a top minister said Wednesday. 
Foreign Minister Han Seung-soo said the govern­ment would strive to insulate inter-Korean ties from politi­cal squabbling at home, espe­cially ahead of local and presidential elections next 
"ft is in everybody ·s
year. Korea, 
"It is in interests ... to prevent the offering everybody's aid and
engagement process from 
interests, o t h e r
backsliding.,,
including concilia­Pyongyang's, to tory ges­prevent the Han Seung-soo tures, 
engagement w h i l e
South Korean foreign minister
from getting
process backsliding," Han said at a news conference hosted by Seoul Foreign Correspondents' Club. 
South Korea's fractious pol­itics have already undercut Kim's so-called "sunshine" policy, with the 22-member Cabinet offering to resign Tuesday after a parliamen­tary vote against a key presi­dential aide. 
The National Assembly voted a day earlier for the dismissal of Unification Minister Lim Dong-won, who had been criticized by opposi­tion lawmakers as too lenient toward the North's govern­ment. 
The vote broke up Kim's ruling coalition because its junior partner, the United Liberal Democrats, sided with the opposition and voted against Lim. 
Kim was not expected to appoint a new Cabinet before Friday, said chief presidential spokesman Park Joon-young. 
Kirn's critics believe he has gone too far in his eagerness to improve ties with commu­n i s t N or th 
little in return from the reclusive regime. 
"Rather than giving conces­sions unconditionally, we propose, as an alternative, a give-and-take policy with the North on the basis of reci­procity and verification," said Cho Woong-kyu, a legislator with the main opposition Grand National Party. 
Backers of the "sunshine" policy, which helped Kim win a Nobel Peace Prize last year, cite an unprecedented inter­Korean summit last year as evidence that it is reaping rewards. The meeting led to a series of exchanges, includ­ing reunions of separated family members and Cabinet ministers' talks. 
Official contacts broke off in March because of tension between the North and the South's chief ally, the United States. 
Over the weekend, North Korea offered to resume negotiations with the South, but there was no word on whether it was willing to talk to Washington about its long­range missile program. 
The "sunshine" policy "is the best option that we can take," said Han, who becomes president of the 
U.N. General Assembly on Sept. 11. "If you ask skeptics what are the alternatives, 
they  will  not  give  you  
answers."  
Han  said  North  Korean  

leader Kim Jong Il's trip last month to Russia and a visit by Chinese President Jiang Zemin to Pyongyang this week will help the North edge out of its self-imposed isola­tion. Jiang urged North Korea to participate in a summit of Asia-Pacific lead­ers in Shanghai next month and to resume talks with South Korea, Chinese state media said. 
The Koreas were divided at the end of World War II. Their border has been sealed since the 1950-53 Korean War. 
>,tfafB'.:'.W-¼:·:#,,,,,  this friday september7th  
9:00 pm  
lafortune ballroom  
nationally published songwriter  

page 8 The Observer . NEWS Friday, September 7, 2001 
Fatboy Slim wins 6 MTV video awards 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Fatboy Slim 's "Weapon of Choice" video was the big win­ner at Thursday's MTV Video Music Awards, winning six of the nine awards for which it was nominated, but it was the sexy video "Lady Marmalade" that took home the year's top trophy. 
"Lady Marmalade," the "Moulin Rouge" -inspired video, was a collaboration featuring Pink, Christina Aguilera, Mya and Lil' Kim. It also received an award for best video from a film. 
The night's other big winner was 'N Sync, who received four awards for their special-effects laden video, "Pop," including the viewer's choice award. 
The "Weapon of Choice" clip by Fatboy Slim, a DJ, doesn't even feature the artist; its star is actor Christopher \'Valken, danc­ing around an empty hotel lobby. Among the early awards it nabbed was for best direction, for Spike Jonze, and best chore­ography. 
As always, however, the awards themselves tend to be an afterthought, upstaged by the evening over-the-top moments. Thursday was no exception, as 'N Sync capped off a colorful rendition of "Pop" with the King of Pop himself, Michael Jackson. Jackson gyrated for only a few seconds to 'N Sync's hit, but received a standing ovation from the crowd. 
Another anticipated moment was Spears' performance of her new song, "I'm A Slave For You," which featured the singer slithering on stage with a snake bleeped by MTV censors. applause. 22-year-old singer and actress, ence. 
and other animals. Foxx had previously said he As the group made its way off who was to be a presenter Among the evening's perform­
Mudvayne won the MTV2 would not lampoon celebrities the stage, Foxx held out a bottle Thursday evening. ers was Lopez, who sang her award spotlighting emerging during the show, but apparently to them. "You want some cham­"I think what we've got to latest hit 'Tm Real" with rapper artists, but it was hard to con­had a change of heart. joking pagne. some champagne?," he learn out of this to appreciate Ja Rule during the show; Linkin centrate on the heavy metal about Mariah Carey's recent joked before the stunned crowd. each other while we're here on Park; U2; Jay-Zand Elliott, who group's acceptance speech: nervous breakdown and "It's apple cider, apple cider! earth," said Elliott, who wore a dedicated her performance to They appeared at the podium in Backstreet Boy A.J. McLean's You can drink apple cider, can't white jacket with Aaliyah's Aaliyah. gory makeup that made them battle with alcohol abuse. you?" image on the back and her Prior to the show. fans who look as if they had been shot in The Backstreet Boys gave out Moments later, however, the name on the side. "I love you gathered outside to greet their the forehead, with fake blood the evening's first award, for mood turned somber with a Aaliyah, and you're forever favorite stars were treated to oozing down their face and best hip•hop :video. Before tribute to Aaliyah, who was missed." concert performances by Alien chest. OutKast picked up their trophy, killed Aug. 25 in a plane crash. Bono also paid tribute to Joey Ant Farm, City High and Eve. 
And Macy Gray upstaged the McLean thanked MTV and fans Janet Jackson, Missy Ramone, who died earlier this Sean "P.Diddy" Combs made the announcement of the award for for supporting him during his "Misdemeanor" Elliott, year of lymphoma, as he intro­grandest entrance: He arrived best new artist as she urged recent stint in rehab. Ginuwine and Timbaland joined duced the remaining members on top of an 18-wheeler truck, everyone "to take a minute and "Today is 64 days sober, and Aaliyah's brother, Rashad of the legendary punk rock rapping his latest hit, "Bad Boys concentrate on my dress," I'm proud of it," he said to Haughton, in remembering the group the Ramones to the audi-for Life." 

.which read: "My new album 
drops Sept. 18, 2001." 
The night was not without its 
glitches: As U2 was about to 
perform "Elevation," a technical 
problem forced MTV to cut to 
commercials until it was fixed. 
"So MTV weren't paying their 
electricity bill." quipped Bono 
before the group received the 
Michael Jackson Video 
Vanguard award for lifetime 
achievement. 
Collaborating with No Doubt's 
Gwen Stefani proved to be good 
move for Moby and Eve; the DJ 
won best male video for his 
"South Side" video featuring 
Stefani, and Eve won best 
female video for "Let Me Blow 
Ya Mind," also with Stefani. 
Comedian-host Jamie Foxx got 
the evening off to a somewhat 
raunchy start. After parodying 
the· evening's setting at the 
Metropolitan Opera I louse with 
opera renditions of hits like 
"Bootylicious," he launched into 
a monologue that had to be 
NOW LEASING FOR 2002·2003 DOMUS PROPERTIES HAS 2.4,5,6,7,8,9 & 10 BEDROOM HOUSES STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS SECURITY SYSTEMS WASHER & DRYERS 
DOMUS PROPERTIES CONTACT KRAMER 29&-9673, 234-2436, OR 674·2571 

SANTIAGO, CHIL_ £ 
INFORMATION MEETING 
With Carmen Nanni Student Returnees 
Tuesday:, Sente01ber 11, 2001 231 DeBartolo 5:00-6:30 p.lll. 
IT'S NOT TOO LATE TO APPLY FOR SPRING 2002. 
Application Deadline: Oct. 1, 2001 for Spring 2002 
Dec. 1, 2001 for Fall '02 and All Year 2002-03 Applications Available: www.nd.edu/,....,intlstud/ 
Friday, September 7, 200I page 9 
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
Feds ignorant on stem cells 
• Administration unaware of 64 cell lines' condition 
Associated Press 
VVASHINGTON 

Health and Human Services Secretary Tommy Thompson said Thursday that President Bush did not know how many of the 64 
existing stem cell lines were f u 1 1 y developed and ready f o r research when he 


decided to 
Bush

limit fed­
eral funds 
to these lines. 
Thompson said the presi­dent's decision was made on moral grounds, and would not have changed had Bush known that fewer than half of these cell colonies are fully developed today. 
Thompson's comments come a day after he met crit­ics on Capitol Hill who argue that research may be ham­pered if there are not enough stem cells that qualify for the funds. Thompson acknowl­edged for the first time that just 24 or 25 of the 64 lines are fully developed, although the others still qualify for federal funds if an applicant seeks them. 
He said more lines will be developed by the time federal grants are issued next year. Even if not, there are enough lines now, Thompson said. 
"Ninety percent of the research done on mice was done on five lines," he said in an extensive interview with The Associated Press in which he defended the administration's approach. 
Each stem cell line comes from a single embryo. Once fully developed, it can repro­duce indefinitely, allowing hundreds of researchers to work with cells from a single line. 
Scientists see great 
promise for treating disease may not become usable. He because the cells can develop said he did not mean to imply into any part of the body. It that all of them were fully is controversial science developed. because human embryos, "Nobody has ever said typically those left over from there are 64 completely fertility treatments, must be developed lines. Nobody has destroyed in the process. ever said that," he said. "I 
By restricting federal funds did not know what states to existing stem cell lines, they were in until recently "where the life-and-death and neither did NIH." decision has already been A few weeks later, the NIH made," Bush made sure released the list of laborato­there was no federal support ries with the stem cell lines. for the destruction of more Interviews with researchers embryos. made it clear that many of 
Thompson said that neither them were in the earliest he nor Bush knew how many stages of development. of the existing stem cell lines Thompson, who plans to were fully developed when appear at a second Senate the president made his deci­hearing on stem cells next sion in August. week, argues that valuable 
"The decision by the presi­research can be done on less dent was made on ethical developed stem cell lines to and moral grounds as much determine how they grow. as it was on scientific Still, he said he does not grounds and it wasn't based know of any researchers who upon the number," he said. are interested in studying 
Before August, most these issues. experts believed there were He said the entire debate a dozen or so embryonic about embryonic stem cell stem cell lines in existence. research has been good for While Bush was deliberating, the country. Thompson quietly ordered "How long has it been since the National Institutes of we've had this kind of in­Health to do a full count. He depth reporting and conver­gave that information to the sations over the dinner table president in pressing him to on fertilized eggs and deriva­allow the research. tion of embryos?" he said. 
Researchers were sur­A former Wisconsin gover­prised -and skeptical -to nor, Thompson boasted that hear Bush say there were he endorsed this research ­more than 60 lines. which was pioneered at the 
The -day after Bush's speech on Aug. 9, ''The decision by the 
Thompson 
president was made on
confirmed 
the number ethical and moral 
to reporters: grounds as much as it "The more 
was on scientific grounds 
than 60 stem 
and it wasn't based upon 
cell lines are diverse, the number. ,, robust and viable for 
Tommy Thompson 
research," he said. Secretary for Health and Human Thompson Services 
s a i d Thursday that when he said those words, he did not know how many cell lines were in the early stages of develop­ment -when they may or 
¦--Notre Dame Center 
¦~1111 for Ethics and Religious ¦ ¦ ¦ Values in Business 
Proudly Presents 
Mr. Jorge Zablah 
WiJI lead a roundtable discussion regarding the importance of business ethics and the problems that a businessperson encounters in day to day decisions 
Brown Bag Luncheon Tuesday, September 11, 2001 339 Mendoza College of Business 12:30 p.m. -1 :30 p.m. 
* Beverages will be provided. Please bring your own lunch. ** You can find additional information at www.nd.edu/~ethics/ 
University 
0 f 
Wisconsin 
before any other politician ever heard of it. After taking the HHS job, he pushed Bush to allow for federal funds. Now, he is defending it to critics who wish it went fur­ther. 
"It's really surprising to me that the one constant that has been there from day one is catching flack," he said. 

FBI agents raid Web business 
Associated Press 
DALLAS 

Federal agents continued searching the headquarters of an Internet company Thursday as part of an ongo­ing terrorism investigation, the FBI said. Muslim leaders said authorities acted on scant evidence and anti-Arab stereotypes. 
InfoCom Corp., based in suburban Richardson, says it sells computer systems and Internet services to many large Islamic organizations in the United States and busi­nesses in the Middle East. 
The FBI said the search, which 
hoping to find evidence of criminal activity." 
In foCom attorney Mark Enoch said the company had no links to terrorist groups and was cooperating with the FBI. even helping agents nav• igate the computer system. InfoCom has 15 full-and part-time employees. 
Internet service to the com­pany's 500 clients was cut off by the agents, lnfoCom's Internet operations manager said. 
Displaced employees moved across the street to the head­quarters of a client, the Holy Land Foundation for Relief and Development, a Muslim charity that supporters of Israel 

b e g a n "We have deep concerns charge Wednesday, raises
that this once again is an 
was part of a money for
attempt to rush to
two-year Hamas and investigation judgment and to o t h e r by the North Mideast
marginalize the 
Texas Joint terrorist
American Muslim 
Terrorism groups. Task Force. community simply The foun­
FBI spokes­dation
because ... many ofthem 
woman Lori denied the 
are immigrants.,,
Bailey said accusa­the investiga­tions, and tion was not Mahdi Bray Muslim aimed at leaders
Muslim Public Affairs Council
InfoCom's who gath­
political adviser 
ered out-

clients, but she declined to say why authorities targeted the company. 
She said more than 80 agents from the FBI and other federal agencies were search­ing computer files at the com­pany's headquarters. Agents took boxes out of the building Wednesday and Thursday but did not say what was con­tained in them. 
The search warrant was sealed by a federal magis­trate, and the FBI did not elaborate on what evidence it sought. 
Bailey denied any bias to the investigation. 
"This is a criminal investi­gation, not a political investi­gation," she said. "We're 
• ¦ ¦ Notre Dame Center 
•·¦• for Ethics and Religiouj• ¦: ¦ Values in Business 
Proudly Presents 
Mr. Jorge Zablah 
President ofTabacalera and Bon Appetit in El Salvador 
Social Responsibilities of a Businessperson 
Tuesday, September 11, 2001 Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 7:00 p.m. 
Made possible by CARGILL 
s i d e InfoCom 's offices 

charged that the raid was orchestrated by Israeli sym­pathizers. 
Nihad Awad, executive director of the Council on American-Islamic Relations, linked the raid with U.S. opposition to international efforts to criticize Israel's handling of the conflict with Palestinians. 
"We suspect that all these attempts are to please the Israeli government but not to protect the U.S. interests," Awad said. "Siding with Israel. a racist country and state, I think does not do us any good." 
Others viewed the raid broadly as the product of anti-Muslim bias. 
"We have deep concerns that this once again is an attempt to rush to judgment and to marginalize the American Muslim community simply because ... many of them are immigrants," said Mahdi Bray, political adviser to the Muslim Public Affairs Council. "There is a pattern of bias that often permeates all of these types of investiga­tions." 
The company has close ties to the Holy Land Foundation. Ghassan Elashi. a company vice president and brother of the owner, Bayan Elashi, is chairman of the foundation. 
Holy Land Foundation offi­cials say they provides purely humanitarian aid to Palestinians in Israeli-occu­pied territories and to 
refugees  in Lebanon  and  
Jordan.  
Israel,  the  U.S.  State  

Department and congression­al members have accused it of being conn_ected to Hamas. the Palestinian movement that has taken responsibility for bombing civilian targets in the Middle East. The founda• tion is outlawed in Israel. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 10 Friday, September 7, 200 I 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Pat Peters  

N1ws EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadter ScENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAJNT MARYS EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLl.ER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING .................................... .631-6900/8 840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAsST. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer .viewpoint. I@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4 543 observer.sports. I@nd.edu SCENE.................······..................................631-4 540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MAR\"s.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PH0T0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://obsnver.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/mwic for 
minute forecasts , 

weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 

online features for spe­
and rares ofprint ads 

cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 

about The Observer 
article.$ published after 

co meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the Universiry ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors, Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of rhe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefMike Connolly. 
Arts Center inadequate for campus needs 
With Thursday's groundbreaking ceremony for the Marie P. DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, the Notre Dame administration has taken a large step to improve campus facili­ties for theatrical works and speak­ers. But with the largest planned venue in the center containing only 
O
Jhe

900 seats, that step 
userver 

ater will increase only by 329 seats. 
Because the University prides itself on bringing high-profile speakers including many presidential candi­dates to campus, the administration should have designed the new per­forming arts center with a venue that 
has a much greater seating 
capacity. 
The new performing arts 
is not large center will accommodate enough. many of the theatrical works By committing on campus, but other events
Editorial 

more than $50 mil­lion to the project, the University is spending copious amounts of money on a building that will not meet cur­rent campus needs. 
Currently, the largest venue on campus is the 571-seat Washington Hall. While the new performing arts center will have five performance spaces, the capacity of its largest the-
often require more than 900 seats to meet demand. 
Members of Keenan Hall currently rent out the 1,300-seat O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's for their annual Keenan Revue production. Even with the creation of the new performing arts center, Keenan will still have to go offsite to find a large enough venue for its current audience or drastically cut ticket availability. 
Additionally, last year Notre Dame brought to campus such high-profile speakers as vice-presidential candi­date Joseph Lieberman and political analyst Tim Russert. Hundreds of people were denied admission to both lectures due to seating capacity limi­tations. It is likely that both Lieberman and Russert could have more than filled even a 900-seat auditorium. 
The University enjoys a status which allows it to draw big-name visi­tors from all fields: political, reli­gious, entertainment and academic. With a venue of more than 900, it could encourage future events as well as increase availability to a larger audience. 
But the current plan leaves that larger audience right where it is now: without a seat. 
Media reflects nation's internalism 
This summer, I spent the less hectic days at work tuned into CNN and the daily TV news. Americans, including representatives and presidents, vaca­tion during the months of July and August and as a result summer tends to be a painfully slow sea­son for reporters and anchor peo­ple. 
Two stories dominated American news media this year. Each day reporters greeted America with the saga of the disap­pearance of Washington intern Chandra Levy and revelations of her alleged affair with Representative Gary Condit. Shark attacks on the American coastline were also prominently featured on the 6 o'clock news and the programs on CNN. 
At first both stories strongly grasped the attention of the American public. The search for Levy touched the col­lective nerve of the country as family and friends could not account for her disappearance and the questionable nature of her relationship with the representative for whom she worked evoked memories of the Monica Lewinsky scandal. 
In the initial nationally reported shark incident, a man pulled his nephew from the crashing waves and then wrestled the attacking fish to the beach to retrieve the child's arm. The incident heightened the fears of sum-mer vacationers who had planned to spend time in the surf. The aggression of the sea animals also raised a num­ber of environmental issues, including the invasion of natural habitats along the coastline. 


But despite their initial newsworthi­ness. over the course of the summer both stories lost their status as critical concerns of the nation. For the major­ity of the Chandra Levy saga, nothing much has happened. Police investiga­tions of Washington area parks and Condit's house came up empty. Officers have failed to provide details concerning possible leads. 
Last year a comparable number of shark attacks occurred. And from the standpoint of human risk, a beacp­goer has a 30 times greater chance of suffering the force of a bolt of light­ning than enduring the bite of an ocean predator. 
So why then did the media continue to press and to publicize both stories, until Condit finally agreed to a Connie Chung interview and researchers felt the need to defend the great white on the world news? In both cases, rat­ings seemed to drive the media for­ward. 
The Levy affair contains all of the elements of a good scandal: disap­pearance, sex and possible murder. Each shark attack contains the ele­ments of a great man-against-nature struggle: a vicious predator, fear and a fight until the death -of either the aggressor or the aggressed. 
While the pursuit of ratings may make for good business, it does not necessarily result in good reporting or responsible news programs. As the media attempted to catch the sensa­tional, world events took a back seat to analysis of Condit's "no comment" response and discussions of human­shark tussles that in truth rarely occur. 
Americans, isolated on North America, bordered only by Mexico and Canada, have the luxury of ignor­ing the rest of the world at will. On a broader note, the summer news reports seemed to evidence the grow­ing trend toward isolationism in our society. The policies of the Bush administration have both supported and strengthened this national senti­ment. 
The President's decisions to with­draw from the Kyoto treaty and to support coal as "alternative energy" shamefully ignore America's impact on the world environment. The actions of Americans have an affect on the world as a whole just as the events elsewhere on the planet have an affect on us, socially, economically and culturally. 
The media has a responsibility to do more than pander to the lowest com­mon denominator. It has a responsi­bility to report more than simply what a polled group of Americans want to hear. 
I realized this summer that the American media needs to act in a way that genuinely keeps U.S. citizens informed and not simply react in response to ratings numbers. It must take a broader world view. 
Joanna Mikulski is a junior English and German major and her column appears every other Friday. She can be reached at mikulski. l@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 

ScottBrodfuehrer Spencer Beggs Kate Mosesso Graphics Sheila Egts Andy Devoto Sports Production Noah Amstadter Jeff Baltruzak Viewpoint Lab Tech Pat Kelly Brian Pucevich Nellie vVilliams 
POLL QUESTION 
Have you or a friend encountered the date rape drug on campus? Please e-mail viewpoint@nd.edu by Friday to report your answer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"In the old days men had the rack. now they have the press." 
Oscar Wilde author 

O
THE 
BSERVER 


Friday, September 7, 2001 page 11 
Loving a hard job 
"Beep! Beep! Beep!" rung the pagers. about 10 calls where someone's life was in The dispatcher called. "Station 55 ambu­danger. That being said, the percentage of lance. medic 91. 100 North High St.. possi­"good calls" is even smaller for me. Most ble cardiac arrest." calls are about helping someone who is 
Ijumped into the ambulance as we sped hurt calm down and take a nice slow ride off with lights and to the ~ospital to get checked out. sirens blaring. It Steve Carroll There are the bad calls which are more was the end of May often referred to as "good calls." They are 1999. I had arrived called "good calls" because they involve at Good Fellowship major tests of your skills. These calls 
A Medical 
Ambulance only 15 include bad car wrecks and cardiac 
Perspective
minutes before and 1 arrests. I have seen car wrecks so bad that was already going the back seat was touching the front seat on my first call. I and the person was pinned underneath was on my way to a possible cardiac the steering wheel. I saw one man riding a arrest and I didn't even know CPR. dirtbike hit the front of an SUV in third 
Fortunately the woman in question gear, fly over the car, and land on his 
was not in cardiac arrest -an ----back 20 feet away on the curb. The 
tal to get her checked out By the very nature of EMS since she had fainted. I have also seen the worst. When I got to the hospi­The worst thing I have tal I notir.ed that my ever seen came on a heart was pounding Monday afternoon last and I couldn't keep April. We got a call still. The other for a pediatric car­technician.s told diac arrest -my
3Jr1AJU8MA
me that was nor­first "code pink." I mal for a call like remember the that and I loved way the 11-year the feeling. old boy's eyes 
During the were rolled up summer after into his head my junior year and how lifeless of high school he looked. I I started "run­remember ning" with praying for this Good boy to live as I Fellowship was doing CPR. Ambulance r-· I remember Club of West the way he Chester. Pa. vomited every­During that where as we summer I were trying to took classes help him to become breathe. I certified as an remember Emergency thinking that Medical there was Technician something (EMT). While I wrong with the was taking world for letting those classes I an 11-year old volunteered as boy come so close an attendant -to death. It made basically an extra me numb for a set of hands on the week. ambulance. Fortunately I was Whenever a person able to get counseling calls 911 an ambu­from someone experi­lance is dispatched, enced in helping EMS an ambulance must workers deal with the have at least two EMTs bad calls. You give so -one to drive and one to much of yourself during a provide patient care. bad call that it affects you in a 
EMTs are trained in basic big way. It is all part of the job; stabilization, resuscitation, oxy­it can be the most rewarding job in gen therapy and spinal immobiliza-the world and also the most depressing. tion. The amount of training is very differ­I'd recommend that anyone who is inter­ent from that of a paramedic. It took me a ested in becoming a doctor get involved in summer to become an EMT while becom­EMS. It is the only way that you will get ing a medic can take a year of full time real patient contact and be able to treat classes that cost upwards of $6,000. patients before the third year of medical 
Once I received my certification as an school. I still continue my job as an EMT EMT in September I continued volunteer­when I am home on break. In fact I look ing one to two nights a week during school forward to my vacations for just that rea­and even more during my vacation time. son. EMS is like the Peace Corps -''the 
So what have I seen in my year of EMS? hardest job you'll ever love." When people ask me this I usually say that I've seen everything from butt pain to bad Steve Carroll is a sophomore biology car wrecks to cardiac arrest. Yes. I did major. He is certified as an Emergency have one call for "butt pain" and yes I Medical Technician and a firefighter in have had to resuscitate five people. Pennsylvania. His future plans include 
There's a saying in EMS that 95 percent going to medical school and becoming an of what you do is not about saving lives ER doctor or a trauma surgeon. He can be but about helping people. While you can't reached at carroll.52@nd.edu. This col­deny the way a life-threatening call (some­umn is the first in a series ofsix appear­times called "good calls") gets the adrena­ing each Friday. line pumping they are few and far between. I have found that to be very true The views expressed in this column are since I have probably been on about 300 those ofthe author and not necessarily calls the past two years and have only had those ofThe Observer. 
Editors respond to rape coverage concerns 
To our readers: Observer said the residents of these rooms are rapists, or even connected to Responsibility does not mean popu­the alleged crime. In every headline, larity. sentence and quote The Observer has 
When The Observer obtained infor­taken care to make sure it is clear the mation this week regarding an alleged crime is "alleged" -meaning that no rape and possible use of a date rape parties have been charged or accused. drug in Keough Hall, the decision to And reporters have given residents the cover the incident was not a difficult opportunity to come forward and speak one. The possibility that a student may about their involvement, if any, in have been raped under the influence of Friday night's events. the date rape drug poses a security risk But the fact remains that Friday. on campus, and we consider it our there was a report filed at Saint Mary's moral, ethical and professional respon­Security that a student may have sibility to alert the campus when crime ingested a date rape drug while at a occurs. party in Keough Hall. The decision to 
So we reported it. print the room numbers reported in the 
Because the security departments at security log was made with students' Saint Mary's and Notre Dame have safety in mind. If a date rape drug was chosen to make only limited details circulating at that party, any student about the two reports available at this who attended is potentially at risk. If time, Observer reporters were unable The Observer hid that information, the to obtain all the facts about the inci­paper's coverage could only be judged dent. As is frequently the case with in one way: ongoing crime investigations. all the Irresponsible. facts are not known. However, the fact The Observer, too, wants answers. does remain that on Friday night, two Reporters and editors are concerned reports were filed with campus security that the facts are not being revealed in departments, both indicating alleged this case. The Observer can only con­rape, one indicating alleged use of a tinue to produce responsible, informa­date rape drug. tive reports with the co-operation of 
Observer editors and reporters felt our sources. We implore both security strongly those were facts the communi­departments to work with us and con­ty deserved to know, and felt it was the tinue providing complete, accurate newspaper's responsibility to report information so that we can piece them. together the facts in this case. 
Some members of the community felt The Observer will continue to give differently. And we heard about it. Friday's events prominent coverage, 
For the past two days, Observer e­and report as new facts emerge. The mail inboxes and phones have been Observer will not abandon its profes­flooded with letters and calls accusing sional. ethical and moral responsibility the newspaper of "shoddy journalism," to make those facts public. ..unethical behavior" and "breaking That is responsible. serious ethical boundaries." The major­Even if it's not popular. ity of these accusations stemmed from The Observer's decision to publish the room numbers currently under investi­gation. Arguing The Observer passed Mike Connolly judgement on the residents of the Editor in Chief rooms before all the facts are known, the community has expressed outrage Noreen Gillespie that The Observer had abandoned all Managing Editor professional responsibility. 
Nowhere in the coverage of the Kerry Smith Keough rape investigation has The Assistant Managing Editor 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Irresponsible reporting has lasting 
consequences 
Acc~rding to the article by Myra McGriff in the Wednesday Observer, there 1s only an alleged rape at Keough Hall being investigated. If it is only being investigated at this time, why identify two dorm rooms? 
I_ feel identifying the rooms and/or people who are being investigated is a prime example of unprofessional journalism. If rooms 419 or 421 are not identified by the investigation as the place of the rape(s} (I say rapes because was she raped in both rooms?) -it is too late. The men in those rooms will be thought of as "rapists" anyway. Please keep this in mind when writing future articles. 
Katie Moor 
graduate student · Sept. 5, 200 l 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

ca us 

page 12 Friday, September 7, 200 I 


Revenge-hungry road trippers flooc 
By LAURA ROMPF Scene Writer 
They want revenge. 

Any student who attended the 2000 Nebraska game in Notre Dame Stadium has heard the term "Sea of Red" and they want revenge. 
Some are driving cars to Lincoln, Neb. Some are flying in planes. However, some are taking extreme measures to ensure a large number of stu­dents attend Saturday's game in Memorial Stadium ­they're renting buses and RVs to transport large groups of Darners to Nebraska. 
"My main motivation for planning our bus trip is the vivid memory I have of last year with the 30,000 Nebraska fans in Notre Dame stadium," said Steve Napleton, a senior. "I was pretty embarrassed as a Notre Dame student. I thought, 'This is supposed to be a home game and they're all Nebraska fans."' 
Mapping it out 

Napleton was bored at work one day this summer and that is when he remembered an idea had discussed with his friend Al Vitter earlier in the spring. He wanted to gather several friends together, rent a bus and go to Nebraska for the first football mass e-mail to several of their friends asking if they would be interested in going on the bus trip to Nebraska. 
"Overwhelmingly, the responses were: everyone wanted to go," Napleton said. "At that point. we started looking into bus companies and getting a group rate at a hotel. 
game of the "My main motivation After that it was 2001 season. all, it was all
for planning our bus
"Al had the gravy."
trip is the vivid memory 
idea to get Napleton and these buses I have oflast year with Vitter got total and organize prices and.
the 30,000 Nebraska
it. We both started selling
fans in Notre dame 
~aid, 'We've tickets. The got to go to Stadium.,, $150 fee t h e includes a bus Nebraska ride to and from
Steve Napleton
game." Lincoln, hotel 
While at Nebraska bus trip organizer Friday night, 
w o r k . 

Napleton e­mailed Vitter and asked him if he remembered the idea and still wanted to go. Vitter was still interested and he and Napleton wrote sent a 
food and drinks, a tailgater before the game and a T-shirt. Their bus left late Thursday night and will return Saturday immediately follow­
ing the game. Like Napleton and Vitter, Aaron Perri, an off-campus senior, also has planned a bus trip to Lincoln, howev­er, his travel plans are a little different. Perri's bus is leaving today at noon and will arrive in Omaha this evening. I?erri said it will take about 1 O and a half hours to reach Omaha, and Lincoln is another hour's drive. Once there, Perri and 56 of his friends will stay the night at a hotel and casino. Perri's trip costs $125 per student and includes trans­portati on, the night in Omaha and a tailgate party at the game un Saturday complete with a DJ, a big screen TV for watching the game and food and drinks. "I've been planning this since the beginning of July," Perri said. "I just really wanted to go to Nebraska." Brad Roger, a junior from Keough Hall wanted to attend the Nebraska game with friends. However, he decided to use a different mode of transportation. To travel the 600 miles to Lincoln, Roger and 10 of his friends rented an RV. The men did research and found an RV with total rental cost of $750. "We talked about doing this last year because we thought it would be a fun time," Roger said. "We all wanted to go and some of us had access to tickets. We thought it would make a good weekend." 
R o g e r worked with Jon Anselmo, also junior in Keough Hall, and started planning the trip over the summer. Anselmo said he expects to pay between $ 200 and $400 for gas. making the total cost for each person in their RV about $100. 
· "A lot of Nebraska fans came out last year, and we just want to show them that we have the same fan support," Anselmo said. "You only go through col­lege once, and to make a road trip like th is will be pretty cool. 
"I want to go to see us win big and get revenge for last year. I think it will be fun to 
drive  down  
with  all  the  
guys.  It  will  

definitely be bonding time." 
Roadblocks and detours 
Roger said he and his friends ran into a small prob­lem: all the RVs in South Bend were rented out for the 


weekend. But Roger refused to give up on the plan, so he called Chicago and found a company from which to rent. But renting the RV from Chicago left Roger and his friends with yet another small prob­lem. 
"We're not sure who is going to drive the RV back to 
'11 lot ofNebraska fans 
up. There is a 

came out last year, and lot of advanced planning to
we just want to show 
do."

them that we have the 
Napleton and 

same fan support ... Vitter said the planning process has
Jon Anselmo 
been fairily

Nebraska RV trip organizer 
easy. 

Chicago on Monday to return it," Anselmo said. 
Perri said that there have been no real problems plan­ning his trip, but he never realized how complex the process would be. 
"You don't realize how many details there are to be taken care of," Perri said. "For example, we want to have the tailgate ready when the bus arrives from Omaha, 
so we  had to rent a  van  to  
drive  from  
Omaha  to  

Lincoln to get their first and set everything 
"It has been amazingly easy to plan," Vitter s a i d 
"Basically, it was done all over e-mail. We didn't run into any difficulty getting buses or hotel rooms. There was so much enthusiasm about the trip that people paid their money immediate.. ly." 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Friday, September 7, 200 l 
page 13 



t Nebraska with waves ofgreen 

_ -_ . · -· -. .. · .:• .;.::.\~~/::. ~·:: •. :: :. • ··:··:: ·. --.-. _ ,--:,.,......•.•:-·· _ . -_: .'V-•: _ ·: :::·:-· •• _ .. __ _
__-.'.:"---_;::<>)::.:.,r--· .-:·\:t~::-;:;:,r·-.-:' .:.. _:: \: _:" ::.·\.:::> 

people of Notre Daine traveling to Nebraska.I mtj$l""~ you.ofsoij!!~g > about the state you will be visiting... .. ·•··· .•..·.·•·.·• •e( ···.·•.· ..... · ... IrW< . · ·•·•..• ·....·· .•. . lt se¢ms Nebraskans. inan effort to ev~ntually take overthe \Vorld in hontj(.of. i,,}'.'y theiridols Dale Earnhardt and Kid Rock, have spread th~~ly(:}S out qy~.a.,.,~~e, ;'.:;j:;i;c; territory in the middle ofthe United States. There. they form: huge areas ofland and _; 
surround them 'hith lots of corn plants to hide their 
· activities. .·.. . , · · .. • < ''"1 ·I01!~~8tifti]!! ,(/ Each of thesffufarms .. bas large,.t.ii.nkAike machin¢$ ~~d 
.·fwactors"thatslowly patrql.Nebr~!se•swgh\'\'ays,JQQ!9rigJor
si.··· ofbuilclin ·. and automobilesi'tliatwill si. al llie'" res:f ......
~rli;~ii\1i•~~,e1~~1;i
+C1vilizat10n••cloak themselves mredonSaturdays dlll'J11gJ%t\ 'thefaIL Their fl~ry attire is.ID,eaIItJQsignal Nebraskans ~~~gi:i;i
they are in the presence of their o-wn people. it · .,. ·•xc ,.;. J ff 8 1 k . . J11an effort to ~ay the rest of the l!nited Statesto~··• 
e · a truza their backs on th~\;e~()C'.Civllizat:io,p;...namelyreftig aIIQI)aved roads •. Nebraskans.invit~fteamsfrom."Ci.. ~·.·.Vi;,, to Compete against their Huskers fu. gallles of sport'. 
Scene Writer ·Despitethe N~~raskans' best efforts to persuadetors to assist them in conquering the world for country music · and the WWF. people from "Civilization" gener;;1.lly find they· 
prefer the comforts oftheir own society, including toilet paper and re-runs ofTh~ Golden Girls,........ . . · .· · . 
So, if you're going toN~braska. be onalertfor people ~pingtodestroy ··.i• "Civilization.'' Resist anyjemptationst<rl>e~Qme Oil~ qf!3~!Pi ~l~traµ.Inll~~s,and throw cell phones to keepthe Nebraskans arba.y. With,aijyluckiyo\lll <;cun~.Qut
fine, .. . . . . .... )F 
Jeff Baltruzak has dedicated his career to stamping dutNebraskianism, Contact Jeff at Jeffrey.D.Baltruzak.2@nd.edu. The opi,nions expressed in this cokimn. 
are those ofthe author andr1.ot necessarily those ofThe Observer• . 
PETER RICHARDSON/The Observer 
ght into a bus on Marion Street. His roommate Rocco Piacentino waits behind him >ther students are traveling to Lincoln, Neb. to cheer on the Irish Saturday. 
Well, they did run into said. "But people had throughout the contest one hitch. "The only access other ways. Some and watching it on big problem we had was too people knew someone screen TVs he will have many people wanted to who had tickets and in his tent. come for one bus," decided not to go." "We just want to be Napleton said. Napleton also has a loud and obnoxious in 
Luckily, that problem ticket, the park­was solved easily. but said ing lot to Napleton and Vitter sim­most peo-show peo­ply decided to add ple on his ple we are another bus to accom­b u s "We just want to be there," modate all 100 people don't. He Perri said.
loud and obnoxious
going on their trip. said he's "I believe 
s u r e in the parking lot to most stu­some will show people we are dents on 
With or without tickets 
try to our bus
there.,, · 
Students say their 
purchase don't have 
main goal is to have as 
the tick­tickets,
much green in Memorial 
ets from Aaron Perri they're just
Stadium as their was scalpers, fans, and
Nebraska bus trip organizer
red at the 2000 game in but many 
want to be 

Notre Dame Stadium. 
students there to 
However, there could be 
are sim-support 
a slight problem in ply going the team." 
accomplishing that goal 
to Lincoln to soak up the Irish fans are certain -tickets. 
atmosphere. to have their revenge ­
Roger said all but two 
"This is our senior or at least they will 
of the guys in his RV 
year," Napleton said. have fun trying.
have tickets, including 
"This is kind of our last 
Roger, who got a ticket chance." 
from his father. 
Perri does not have a PETER RICHARDSON/The Observer 
"I know Nebraska 
ticket to the game, but Jaye Parody( left) and roommate Gina Gajdos, off-campus seniors, pack some
didn't offer Notre Dame Contact Laura Rompf at
doesn't seem to mind. 
snacks for the trip. 
many tickets," Roger Laura.C.Rompf.2@nd.edu.
He plans on tailgating 

Friday, September 7, 2001 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Bonds knocks No. 60 into history books 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO 

Barry Bonds hit his 60th home run, becoming just the fifth player to reach the milestone, and the San Francisco Giants narrowed the gap in the NL West with a 9-5 victory over the Arizona Diamondbacks on Thursday. 
Bonds homered off Albie Lopez (3-5) in the second inning, with the sellout Pacific Bell Park crowd roaring as the solo shot cleared the right-field wall. 
Arizona's lead in the NL West was squeezed to 1 1/2 games as the Giants took two of three games in the final series of the season between the teams. 
But the attention was on Bonds, who joined Babe Ruth (60 in 1927), Roger Maris (61 in 1961). Mark McGwire (70 in 1998; 65 in 1999} and Sammy Sosa (66 in 1998; 63 in 1999) in the 60-homer club. 
Bonds hit his 60th in the Giants' 141st game, reaching the mark faster than the other four sluggers. McGwire, the pre­vious fastest to 60, needed 142 games in 1998, the year he set the record with 70. 
The Giants. who have won four of their last six games, also got a solo home run and a two­run single from Rich Aurilia, as well as two-run singles from John Vander Wal and Ramon Martinez. 
Aaron Fultz (3-1). who relieved starter Ryan Jensen, allowed a hit and struck out three in 1 2-3 innings for the victory. 
The Diamondbacks took a 2-0 lead in the first on Reggie Sanders' RBI triple and Steve Finley's single. 

Phillies 3, Expos 0 
Robert Person and a pair of relievers combined on a four­hitter as the Philadelphia Phillies stopped their four-game losing streak, beating the Montreal Expos. 
Bobby Abreu hit a two-run homer as the Phillies pulled within 2{ games of idle Atlanta in the NL East. 
Person (14-7) gave up three hits in 7 1-3 innings to win his fifth straight decision. He struck out five and walked three. 
Ricky Bottalico relieved 
Person after a one-out walk to 
Brad Wilkerson in the eighth. 
Jose Mesa pitched the ninth for his 36th save in 39 chances. 
The game drew only 3,406 fans, the second-lowest total ever at Olympic Stadium. The smallest crowd was 2,803 for a game against St. Louis on Sept. 27, 1984. 
Abreu hit his team-leading 
27th homer off Carl Pavano (0­
4) in the first. 

Jimmy Rollins bunted for a leadoff single and advanced on first baseman Lee Stevens' throwing error. After Doug Glanville sacrificed, Abreu 
_homered over the right-field wall. 
Reds 8, Pirates 6 
Ken Griffey Jr. hit a tiebreak­
ing, two-run double in the sev­
enth inning and the Cincinnati 
Reds overcame a five-run deficit 
to beat the Pittsburgh Pirates. 
Cincinnati kept the Pirates 
from winning their fourth con­secutive game, which would have matched their season-best streak. 
Rich Loiselle (0-1), making his first major league appearance since July 21, gave up an infield single to Todd Walker to open the seventh. 
Adam Dunn walked and Griffey scored both runners with. a double down the left-field line. Pokey Reese added a sacrifice fly. 
Jim Brower (7-9) earned the win with three innings of one­hit relief. Danny Graves pitched the ninth for his 25th save. 
Pirates starter Dave Williams had a 5-0 lead after three innings, but couldn't hold it. The rookie gave up five runs in the fourth, three of them unearned because of second baseman Warren Morris' fielding error. 
Dunn singled to open the fourth and he went to third when Morris couldn't handle Sean Casey's grounder. Aaron Boone, Dmitri Young and Reese hit consecutive run-scoring sin­g! es, and Walker chased Williams with a two-run single. 
Mets 5, Marlins 2 

A costly error by Dave Berg proved to be the difference for the New York Mets. 
The Mets scored a pair of unearned runs thanks to Berg's miscue and posted their fourth straight victory with a triumph over the Florida Marlins. 
New York trailed 2-1 entering the seventh inning, but Mike Piazza singled with one out off Marlins starter Brad Penny (7­9). Robin Ventura then hit a slow ground ball to second baseman Berg, who tried to 

start a double play. 4-2 lead. New York added a run 
But his throw got past short­when Piazza's pop fly with two stop Alex Gonzalez and rolled outs dropped between Gonzalez into left field as Piazza raced to and left fielder Cliff Floyd to third and Ventura took second. score Matt Lawton. An RBI groundout by Todd Zeile Kevin Appier (8-10) pitched 6 tied the game before Jay Payton 1/3 innings, allowing two runs smacked a two-out RBI double and nine hits. Tom Martin and to give New York the lead for Jarrod Riggan each retired a ' good. batter and Grant Roberts got a ' 
Timo Perez's leadoff home pair of outs in the eighth before run in the ninth gave the Mets a running into trouble. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r·m-at the Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
.'./)  LOST AND FOUND Lost: High School Class Ring . Chillicothe High School Jessica inscribed on the inside Please return! Girlfriend will kill me  ON CALL BABYSITTER NEEDED. NEAR ND. FOR DETAILS CALL 273-2872. STUDENT WORK $14.05 Base-appt. Vector Mkt. is filling PT cust. svc./sales positions. (5-20hrs) Flex. around classes. Scholarships. Cond. apply  Mom's helper. Seek student to help with twins 1 0­20 hrs/moth. Good pay. Full description available by e-mail request: JennyLack@aol.com Babysitter(s): non-smoker, playful, responsible. Needed for various times: Mon & Th. Fternoons (12­ Student Loft. Sturdy, attractive, holds twin or x-long twin mattress $95. Computer desk with shelves, approx 44 x 24" $90. 255-4051 (days) . FOR RENT  For Sale Navy, WVA, Pitt, GAs 654-0168 Have 4 MSU Tickets together. Need 4 USC Tickets -will sit any­where Cash or trade. Call Jeff 634-4996 $$ NEED 8 TIX 4 WVU 915-241-5999  CUBS WIN! CUBS WIN! Go Astros baby!!! My little brother watches the MTV Video awards and know's all there is to know about it. He's the man... My brother is DA MAN! He's 11 ... but definitely, THE MAN!  
Please call 634-3580  www .worktorstudents.com/np call  5), Sat. nights. Girl 3, Boy 5. In  ND/MichSt-·····hotel-sleeps 4­ 
Lost a silver bracelet possibly in South Quad directly outside Dillon Hall's front door. Bracelet has a gold plate with the inscription "TJ 1999 LIV." If found,  M•W 12-Spm 282-2357 Villa-style home for rent. 2 Bdrm Attached 2 car gar. Clean, Cross Creek Subdivision $850/mo  Granger. 273-9476 Sitter wanted by professor for two boys (7 & 10) some evenings and late afternoons. Constable.1@nd.edu or 234-9597  jacuzzi-refrig-hottub-exercise rm­pool-food-playgrnd-shuttle-min 2 nites-$175/nite-9/21-27 219-291-5849/255-1020 THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and  PERSONAL SENIORS: Senior Portraits taken until Sept. 21. Sign up now @ www.Laurenstudios.com while  JENNIFER··· I LOVE YOU!!!! Going to Nebraska in about 12 hours. NEBRASKA BABY!!! It's in difficulty we find strength  
please call 4-0951 and leave a message for TJ. REWARD over $50.  679-9480 Wanted by elderly couple a respon-• sible man or woman graduate stu­dent to drive our car for errands or short drives from our home in ND  FOR SALE This terrific one bedroom condo in Woodbridge Condominiums is close  Breakfast Inn has space available tor footbalVparent wknds. 5 rooms with private baths. $80-$115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road Exit#107. 1-800-418­9487.  there is still space available. OUR WEEKEND PRAYER God, GRANT us the power to do BATTLE against those who shuck corn.  JM-Tomorrow we start over. Don't ever forget that! Nelli, Cass, Stina: I get the "bad friend» award this  
WANTED  neighborhood. Wages per hour negotiable. 288-0074.  enough to walk to ND. Own this for $62,9001  Why rent?  B & B 4 rooms for N.D. football. 3 miles from N.D. Best location.  "LO'VECCHIO, as you stomp down the field,  week. Sorry J haven't been around. I can't wait to watch the Nebraska  
Seeking part-time Daycare provider tor two childen. Granger area. Own transportation required, References. Call 277-1622. LOVE KIDS? WANT TO EARN GOOD $$ BUT ONLY WORK A FEW HOURS A WEEK? Area family needs individual to care for our two daughters Mon-Fri from 3-6pm starting mid-Sept. Mom attends grad school in Chicago. Girls are fun and delight­ful! Transportation needed. Generous pay! If interested, please call Karen Stonehill at 272-5013.  Apt. 2-bdrm $350/person incl. util. $150 dep. close to ND. 120 W. cripe st. 277 -9455 Seeking student for part time repre­sentation on campus for screen print & embroidery company. Flex hrs and flex pay. Call Dave at 800­813-2113. ' Looking for someone to care for/play with my 4 & 6 year old boys while I work in home office. 3-5 hours per week ; flexible. 5 miles from campus.Tricia 232­1285 Looking for a female English tutor tor Japanese native girl aged 8 in Granger. Twice a week $40 (1 hour each some time between 4 to 7 pm). Contact Yoshi at 219-654-1219  Cobntact Prudential One Realty or Cherie TeRoller at 284-2600. LOUD 3-way speakers. 125 w. ea. 12n drivers. $250 obo/pari. Call Mike 4-4695 Northshore Condo, 1428 Marigold Way near ND, 1 bdr, 1 bath, LR, DR & kitchen w/ appliances. 1 car garage. $69,000. Call Doris at 254-1772 for more info. Beautiful brass bed, queen size, with orthopedic mattress set. All new, never used, still in plastic. $235. 219-862-2082.  287-4545 TICKETS BUY/SELL ND FOOTBALL TICK­ETS 277-6619 WANTED-ND TICKETS 289· 9280 ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED A.M. 232-2378 P.M. 288-2726 ND tickets for sale. Lowest prices. 232-0964 Buying some/Selling a few extra N.D. Football Tickets 219-289­8048 A businessman needs football sea­son tickets *GAs only* Will buy individual games 277-1659  YURA WEAVER of our dreams and a HUNTER of our first win. However ROCKY, SAPP 'em early. As in times ot Ceasar, let JULIUS rule the field! God, thank you for our strengths. Let us CROUCH on bended knee with golden helmets raised in victo­ry! And, ~ord, let us not smile too big when we DO beat them. Amen. Good luck Guys! Love, Card Services we ain't going no where, we ain't going no where, we can't be stopped, cuz its bad boys for life AM how's practice going? i hope your hands don't hurt too much. Andrew has a night off... That hap­pens about as much as.....  game with you this weekend.let's party like only we can. I love you guys! Noreen Chuk, please take me off the list. I'm sorry, really. But my girls come first this time. So, I hear someone likes hostages. »BIG THREE" And we thought we had it figured out. Well, I guess we always learn. Have a safe trip to Nebraska, 0­Staff, fans and team! Boone's at tour. Boone's at four. Boone's at four. BOYS: BRITNEY ISN'T COOL. PLEASE WIPE YOUR DROOL FROM THE OFFICE FLOOR. SIN­CERELY, THE OBSERVER GIRLS  

Friday, September 7, 2001 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
.,_ 
The Notre Dame Law School Natural Law Institute presents -. 

The Olin 

Lecture Series 

Upcoming Lectures Daniel Robinson 
Distinguished Research Professor
R.T. Wright 
and Professor of Psychology.
October 30 
Georgetown University; Faculty Fellow. at the University of Oxford 
Francis Cardinal George 
March 21 Monday. September 1o. 2001 
James Gordley 4 p.m. 
ApriI 11 
Notre Dame Law School Courtroom 
' .. , { i , ' . , l I
.' , . 
. 
' 
'' 

& 
\'
I,
1: 
~ 
~ page 16 Friday, September 7, 2001 
f' The Observer . SPORTS 
~ 
\' 
~ 
~· 
1' 
\' 
.: 
) I )' 
~ 
~ ~· 
~ ~ 
)\ 
)' )' 1' 
~ 
\
\
) 
) ) 
> 
I 
) 
•
'\
•1 
I\ 
~ 
:~ " 
1' 1' 1) i\
,, 
,,:~ 
,, ' 
:l 
,. 
,\ 
>'· 
l ,l 

l I 
,, 
NHL 

Canadiens captain Koiva to begin chemo treatment 
Associated Press 

MONTREAL 
After getting over the shock of learning he had abdominal cancer, Montreal Canadiens captain Saku Koivu sought out some inspiration. 
"He asked us to bring him a copy of Lance Armstrong's book when we go back to visit him later today," Canadiens defense­man Craig Rivet said Thursday after he and teammate Brian Savage visited Koivu in the hospital earlier in the day. 
With surgery ruled out as an option, the 26-year-old Canadiens center will begin chemotherapy as soon as the type of cancer is determined, a process that could take up to two weeks. 
Rivet and Savage said Koivu was in better spirits a day after he received his grim diagnosis. 
"He seemed to be a lot more cheerful, but he's obviously scared," Savage said. "Just the unknown of what kind of cancer it is is pretty difficult for him right now." 
Koivu's toughest moments came Wednesday, when he was advised that malignant cells had been found in his abdomen. 
"We were there about 10 minutes after he was told that he did have cancer, so it was a pretty rough time, a pretty emotional time for him," Rivet said. "We didn't get to spend a whole lot time with him. It was kind of a shock for all of us in there." 
Koivu was hospitalized for tests Tuesday night after complain­ing of abdominal pain and vomiting following his arrival from his native Finland on Monday. 
An ultrasound exam showed an abnormal buildup of fluid in a chamber of Koivu's abdominal cavity, said team physician Dr. David Mulder. Fluid taken from the area contained malignant cells, he said, and now further biopsies and other testing is tak­ing place to learn more about the illness. 
"We found malignant cells. They would basically fall into two broad categories," Mulder said. "One we're looking at would be in the field of lymphomas, which is cancer of the lymph system. The other would be a tumor in any other part of the abdominal cavity. 
"We're hoping that this will be a kind of lymphoma," Mulder said. "Now the best kind of lymphoma is Hodgkin's, and then the worst kind is almost like an acute leukemia, associated with a high mortality rate. We're hoping he'll have the good kind." 
Koivu's NHL career has been plagued with injuries. He missed 28 games last season with a knee injury that required surgery. 
He had 1 7 goals and 30 assists in 54 games last season, and has 85 goals and 185 assists in 344 games in six seasons with Montreal. 
Koivu has asked for privacy while the doctors decide on what to do. 
"He was looking forward to the season, and now this," Mulder said, adding that he and Koivu had "philosophical" discussions on the illness. "I don't have an answer for him." 
Mulder said it was too soon to talk about when he would play again. 
"I'm not ruling out a return to play hockey, but don't ask for a time," Mulder said, mentioning how Armstrong came back from testicular cancer to win the Tour de France three straight times. 
'Pi.mouE-LoTTEi=rv-NUivleeRs, 
:  43004  43207  43361  43617  43856 44078:  
43008  43208  43384  43622  43857 44080  
I 43011  43209  43403  43623  43883 440831  
I 43030 I 43039  43233 43243  43408 43411  43626 43637  43885 440861143890 44os11 
I 43048  43269  43413  43649  43905 441121 
I 43050  43273  43430  43664  43916 44118  
I 43067  43277  43433  43665  43943 441221  
I 43070  432s1  43436  43673  43974 441461  
I 43089  43283  43454  43680  43978 441531  
I 43092  43289  43455  43686  43979 441541  
I 43102  43290  43466  43700  43984 441601  
I 43108  43295  43471  43703  43996 441831  
I 43109  43296  43472  43706  44000 441901  
I 43130  43298  43476  43721  44001 442041  
I 43131  43309  43502  43724  44002 442051  
I  43136  43318  43504  43732  44006  I  
I  43137  43322  43535  43745  44001  I  
I  43145  43328  43541  43753  44011  I  
I  43146  43333  43548  43754  44015  I  
I  43161  43337  43564  43758  44019  I  
I 43166  43342  43572  43765  4402s  1  
I  43180  43345  43590  43795  44029  I  
I  43184  43352  43594  43836  44051  I  
I  43205  43359  43609  43849  44066  I  

l~~~~~~~~~~L~~--J 
LITTLE LEAGUE WORLD SERIES 
Almonte returns to school 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
The 1.1 million children head­ing back to school this week included overage Little Leaguer Danny Almonte, who is attend­ing eighth-grade bilingual class­es at Public School 52 in the Bronx. 
Danny, whose Rolando Paulino team was banned from Little League after officials in the Dominican Republic ruled that he was 14, showed up at school as promised on Thursday, said Board of Education spokeswoman Catie Marshall. 
It was Danny's first day at an American school -although team officials originally said he attended school in the Bronx last year. 
On Tuesday, officials in the Dominican Republic until June Dominican Republic charged 15 -another reason he should Danny's father with falsifying a not have qualified for Little birth certificate to make his son League championships. appear to be 12 when he actual­The New York team was ly was 14 and thus too old for stripped of its third-place finish Little in the World Series League. after Almonte's 
Felipe · ··we had to commit this actual age was de Jesus revealed last week.
little fraud to give this .. 
Almonte Little League also
opportunity to this child." 
"will be voided all of 
arrested Almonte's records, as soon Marisol Maria Inoa Sanchez including a perfect as he 
stepmother of Danny Almonte g~~e~n interview
sets foot in this with The New York country," said Victor Romero, a Times, Danny's stepmother, public records official in the Marisol Maria Inoa Sanchez de Dominican Republic. The father Almonte, begged the Dominican is still in New York and faces and U.S. government's forgive­three to five years in jail if con­ness on behalf of her husband. victed. "We had to commit this little 
Also on Tuesday, school offi­fraud to give this opportunity to cials said Almonte had been fin­this child," Inoa Sanchez said. ishing seventh grade in the 
WINTER OLYMPICS 
Utah farmer busted for logo 
Associated Press 

SALT LAKE CITY 
A farmer who pruned a cornfield maze into the shape of the interlocking Olympic rings is in trouble with Winter Games officials. 
The cornstalks in Steve Ames' Farmington field stand in the shape of the five Olympic rings and feature the logo of an Olympic sponsor. 
The Salt Lake Organizing 
Committee's brand-protec­tion department is telling Ames to either plow the corn under or alter the crop so it no longer looks like the Olympic logo. 
Ames says he has an e-mail indicating that the sponsor, Nu Skin Enterprises, gave the OK for using the Olympic insignia. 
But SLOC officials say no one can use the Olympic rings without paying a price · -$10,000 by one account. 
Nu Skin officials now say 
they want their logo out of 
the field as well. 

"It'll be pretty difficult," 
Ames said Thursday. "It's 
kind of like, 'What's the big 
deal?' Just leave it alone. I 
can't alter it overnight." 

Nu Skin spokesman Larry .Macfarlane said Ames was 
told he would have to get r 
approval from SLOC. 

"The more we look ,tt it, the 
more we're unhappy with it," 
Macfarlane said. 

ATTENTION: '01-'02 CSC VEHICLE DRIVERS 


CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
C 
IFI 



Session will be held at 6:30 p.m. in Room 124 at the CSC. (Bring driver's license) 
REivIINDERS: .!Anyone wishing to use a CSC vehicle must attend certification each year 
.! Requests must have accurate times and name(s) of person(s) driving (if group leader schedules various vehicles, they must inform coordinator (csc vans@nd.edu) as soon as possible ofactual drivers) 
.1 Direct questions to: cscvans @nd.edu 
Vehicle runs begin fvlon,day, September 3 Please note: * Coordinator is a part time position. E-mail will be checked on Sundays. 
, 
~ 
I 
1 
Friday, September 7, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
SMC to open season at Aquinas Invite 
Thayer and Caitlin Gillen will alsoBy KATIE McVOY be adding their talent to the team. 
Associate Spons Editor 
Thayer finished No. 1 for the 
Belles last season at the Aquinas 
The Saint Mary's cross country Invitational. Gillen will be compet­team is looking to start off the ing for the first time after sitting season on the right foot as the out last season due to an injury. Belles open their season at the Last year, the Belles finished in Aquinas Invitational on Saturday. sixth place out of six teams, 
"I think starting out, we're look­including MIAA contender ing to just see where we are Kalamazoo. Thayer finished 50th, because we have so many new the highest place the Belles took 
freshmen," junior Whitney Ross home. said. "We had a really good The Belles have run in the turnout this year and we're just Aquinas Invitational for the past trying to get together as a team." three years, so this course, which 
The team has been on campus runs on flat ground, is old news to 
since Aug. 20 the veterans. working on "It's a lot long runs, team 7This meet] will start a more comfort­unity and ing to know
ground basis for what we
adapting to col­what the course
want to work on for the
lege courses. is like and how Despite three rest ofthe season. ·• you can pace weeks of train­yourself," Ross ing, however, said.
Whitney Ross 
this meet will But for the be the first test junior nearly 15 first­for the team. year runners. 
"[This meet) will start a ground this will be their first college meet. basis for what we want to work "With a lot of freshman, it will on for the rest of the season," be a big challenge," Ross said. Ross said. "We don't want to be As far as strategy for this race competitive; the first meet is like a goes, each woman on the team is run through." going out to run for her best time. 
And run they will, as the largest Pack running is not something the pack in the past five years. Belles are looking to do at this 
This year's freshman recruiting first meet. class is one of the largest in Saint "It's pretty much run your best Mary's history. Two new runners time," Ross said. "We know who may be leading the pack at this we can run with, so in that sense weekend's race. Freshman we run together." Kristen Zaininger from Sandwich, The race will kick off at 4 p.m. Ill. and sophomore Jackie on Saturday in Grand Rapids, Bauters, who transferred in from Mich. Miami-Ohio, have been leading the pack in practices. 
Contact Katie McVoy at
Returning sophomores Erin 
mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 
Irish rest starters in opener 
David Mertens are top con­cial to pushing this team to aBy KATIE HUGHES tenders, but after a summer of Big East title and beyond, the 
Sports Writer 

training, a tune up race like sixth man will be just as impor­Valparaiso could be just what tant. 
The search for the crucial 
the team needs to see where "There are lots of kids that sixth man begins today as the everyone really stands. really have the potential to Irish men's cross country team 
"This meet is a chance for the make a contribution," said 
heads into its first meet of the 
freshmen to run, and for the Piane. "Brian Kerwin had a season at the Valparaiso upperclassmen to run with wonderful summer of training.Invitational. them and help them out a lit­He struggled last year with the 
After a ninth-place finish in tle," Striowski said. "Mario Bird intensity and distance, as many
last year's NCAA champi­
and Eric Morrison should be freshmen do. Coach told us this onships, the Irish are ranked good, and there are a lot of should be a confidence No. 5 in the preseason MONDO freshmen who will help us out builder." NCAA Division I poll. down the road. We're doing this Ahead of Notre Dame in the 
All-American seniors Luke in place of a regular time trial." MONDO poll were Colorado,Watson and Ryan Shay will not Morrison heads a large group Stanford, Arkansas and compete, allowing themsome of newcomers competing in Providence. "We have lots of extra rest and training before their first collegiate meet. goals for the season -loftythe upcoming National Catholic "I think the freshmen are goals," Striowski said." But this Invitational and Notre Dame ready for their first meet, but I is the best team we've had here Invitational. don't think a lot of them know in the last 10 years." 
With the team's stars sitting what they're getting into," said But with ShaY., and Watson out, the focus shifts to filling in Irish head coach Joe Piane. not competing, the Irish are not the final piece in the team's "But this is a learning experi­overly concerned with their fin­lineup. Behind Shay, Watson, ence for them." ish on Saturday.
Pat Conway, Todd Mobley and Though the performances of Marc Striowski the sixth spot is NCAA 10,000-meter champwide open. .Junior Sean Shay and last year's consistent Contact Katie Hughes at 
Zanderson and sophomore top finisher Watson will be cru-khughes@nd.edu. 
WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish to test depth, freshmen at Valparaiso Invitational. 
Androski, who struggled with mononucleosis dur­By KATIE HUGHES 
ing the 2000 cross country season and classmate Sports Writer Rachel Edress, who had a stress fracture earlier this year, will also return to competition at 
In their first compeition of the year today at the Valparaiso. Valparaiso Invitational, the Irish women's cross But even without his best runners, Connelly is country team will test the depth of the middle of focused on competing. Notre Dame took first at their lineup. the meet last year. 
Juniors Jen Handley and Jen Fibuch, sopho­"We're going out to win the meet,"said more Megan Johnson and top freshman Lauren Connelly. "But usually Jen [ Handley] and Megan King all will not compete, handing over the role [ Johnson] are out front, and this meet will help of point scoring to their mid-pack teammates. us to develop some depth. It puts some people in 
"The four of us aren't running, but [the team] is a position where they know they're being counted going to do awesome anyway," said Johnson. on, what it's like to line up and compete at the 
Irish head coach Tim Connelly sees the compe­college level." tition as a chance to judge the majority of his Though Notre Dame is favored to win again, runners. Western Michigan and Wisconsin-Milwaukee are 
"We like to use this meet to gauge where peo­expected to have some good competition. ple are," Connelly said. "This was my first college race when we ran it 
For freshmen Christine Arnerich, Jackie Heap last year," said Johnson, who holds the school and Kerry Meagher, this will be their first experi­record in the 1,500-meters. "A group of five of us ence with college level competition after a sum­ran together, pushing each other along. Then we mer of tough training. broke away from the pack, and left the other 
"The freshmen have been handling the training teams in the dust. It was a good way to meet your very well," Connelly said. "Some of them seem a teammates and see what we had to offer." little tired -this is also their first week away "This meet is a matter of showing everything from home. But they seem excited to race." you've worked for all summer," Johnson said. 
The meet also provides a chance for two run­ners whose training schedules were interrupted 
Contact Katie Hughes at khughes@nd.edu.
to return to the course. Sophomore Beth 
r----------------------•
' 

------------.­
rvoTED#<f For Your Best Tan Everl-1 
.byP«Jple 
whoknow Get a F~n Tan I I tanning/ I 

Register in Advance at RecSportsFor More Info. Call 1-6100 
Your choice! Etther·10 tanning bed sessions forJust S3S I Demonstration OR an entire Month of bed tanning for onJy $40. I Tuesday, September 11, Rockne Rm. 219 6:15PM AND when you bring in this coupon get 25~off our wide selection of tanning lotions! Classes open to all ND students, faculty, staff, retirees and
I their spouses 
272-7653 NEW University Location State Road 23 & Ironwood 
I Z?~~ 
256-9656 Corner of G,:ape and McK_inley 291-2000 Southland Plaza lraland & Ironwood J 
.... ----. ....,,: ---.... --~ ~ ..... ---.... ----·_,,. --... I www.nd.edu/~recsport
~----------------------~ 

'! 

) 
.I 
' 
..,. 
/ . .' I 
.'; 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, September 7, 2001 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belle freshmen to get taste of college competition 

By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 

While most freshmen on the Saint Mary's cam­pus will be having their first experience with col­lege athletics watching the Notre Dame/Nebraska football game, the freshmen volleyball players will be out on the road getting a first-hand taste of college competition. Head coach Julie Schroeder-Biek will take her eight freshmen players to the Lake Michigan College to acclimate them to the college experience without the rest of the varsity team. 
'Tm looking to get them confidence and experi­ence," Schroeder-Biek said. "There have been a couple of positions that have had difficulty [with freshmen] seeing playing time." 
Because Lake Michigan is a junior college, the results of tonight's game will not go on the Belles' season record. After losing senior middle-hitter Jolie LeBeau to an ankle injury during Wednesday night's game, Schroeder-Biek saw this as a perfect opportunity to try out some new players in that position. 
"I will be doing some experimenting with the middle position," she said. "I have eight [fresh­men] so they will be getting a lot of playing time." 
In addition to trying out some new players at the middle position, playing without the rest of the varsity team will allow the first-year outside hitters to get some playing time. Thus far this season, the new outside hitters have been playing behind Angela Meyers, who leads the MIAA in defense, and Elizabeth Albert. Andre Bella and Angie Osmanski, both freshmen outside hitters. will have an opportunity to try play at the colle­giate level. Although Osmanski hasn't had a chance to play at outside hitter, she has seen some college playing time already. She stepped in when LeBeau went down on Wednesday. 
"[Osmanski] is a real versatile player," Schroeder-Biek said. "Angie consistently uses her jump serve and is very effective. Her true position is outside attacker, but I will also throw her in [at] middle." 
Bridget Wakaruk has also already seen signifi­cant playing time, working as a main setter on the offense. 
Schroeder-Biek will also be trying Stacey Stark and Ellise Rupright at middle hitter and experiementing with Jenny Wilkins and Michelle Gary as defensive specialists. 
All seven players have already seen some court time this year. 
"Five of these [ women] actually play a very strong role," Schroeder-Biek said. "They come in [at] half-time either back row or front row." 
However, there will be one woman tonight who has had no experience on the college court. Marguerite Ritchey, who dressed with the team for the first time Thursday night, will face compe­tition for the first time tonight. 
In preparation for tonight's game, the fresh­men faced off in a scrimmage against the seniors on Thursday, a scrimmage that showed some real promise. 
"I saw some leaders emerge, which I was hop­ing to see," Schroeder-Biek said. "I saw good communication." 
Competition kicks off at 6:30 against Vincennnes, followed by an 8 p.m. game against Terra and a 9:30 game against. Lake Michigan. Schroeder-Biek is counting on her team's mental focus to bring them through the evening's intense schedule. 
"They're going to have to really pull it out men­tally because physically they're going to be really tired," she said. "That's a lot of competition and basically everybody we play is going to be fresh." 
After practicing Friday, the upperclassmen will travel to Lake Michigan with assistant coach Sue Ushela to support their teammates. 
The Belles will play their next game as a full team on Tuesday at Olivet. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 


Friday, September 7, 2001 page 19
The Observer . SPORTS 

SMC GOLF MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Yankee catches says 
Belles begin MIAA season 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 
This weekend's golf tourna­ment could be a preview for the MIM championships. 
The Belles will kick off their league sea­
son at Olivet this weekend with the first of four all-league tourna­ments that will end 


with the Pekarek M I A A Championships hosted by Saint Mary's at Brookwood Golf Course on Sept. 28. 
With a young, strong team, Saint Mary's is ready to start the season. 
"I think everybody is exciteµ to get into the season." senior Mary Claire Hathaway said. "We definitely have a chance at the conference championship." 
The Belles finished in third place last season just behind the Flying Dutch of Hope College and the Britons of Albion. This year, however, with two strong freshmen leading the team, the Belles have a chance to take the golf for Division III freshmen. championship. "It will be interesting to see 
umpire pushed first 
Freshmen Stefanie Stefanie Simmerman battle with Simmerman and Julia Adams Hope's Lacey Wicksall," said 
led the Belles last weekend at head coach Theresa Pekarek. 
Associated Press
the Ferris State Invitational. This year will be the first time Simmerman finished in 11th that the women's MIAA champi­TORONTO
place at the 17-team tourna­on will be decided at a single 
New York Yankees catcherment, turning in a low score of tournament. Despite the fact Jorge Posada said Tuesday it82. But the young team will that this weekend's tournament didn't matter that he mistookhave its work cut out for it. will not affect final standings, it 

Andy Fletcher for another
Albion is returning two of the will allow the teams time to size 
umpire
five women that placed in the each other up and start prepar­
during
top eight individual golfers in ing for the MIAA championship. 
t h e i r
the MIAA last season. Lindsey "We have to keep [the fact 
run-in a
Densmore and Stacey Chapman that we could take the champi­d a ywill be leading the Britons in an onship] in mind," Hathaway 
before
effort to reclaim the MIAA title. said. "But we also have to con­
because
Joining the Britons in the centrate on the task at hand." 


quest will be the Flying Dutch of "/ think everyone is Hope, who 
excited to get
finished only 
into the season.,, 
five points ahead of the Belles in final 
Mary Claire Hathaway 
standings last­
goHer
season. The Flying Dutch will be led by sophomore 
Lacey Wicksall. Wicksall took looking at focusing their e·fforts 
way because I saw it," said
home the medal in MIAA golf on their short game. 
Posada, who has viewed the
last season as a freshman, was "I know our coach [Pekarek] 
tape.
named a second team all­stresses the importance of our 
"He pushed me, then I got

American and placed 15th in short game," Hathaway said. 
close and I got upset, and he
"And she wants us to concen­
pushed me
trate and have confidence on the 
the ump
This will be 
pushed
the fourth sea­
him first. 
son that 
Posada Posada

seniors 
w a s
Hathaway and 
called out on a third strike in
Megan Keleher 
the ninth inning of New
will be playing 
York's 7-5 victory over
on the course 
Toronto on Monday. Posada
at Olivet. With 
then yelled obscenities at
that much 
Fletcher, bumped him and
experience 
got spittle on him, but he said
behind them, 
Fletcher pushed him.
the Belles are 
"He pushed me out of the 

and I said
course. Concentrating on the 
'Don't push "ft doesn't matter. It's mouth, but
green and having confidence on 
I did not do

the green is important because
N@mRm IIDAMIE 1fllccm~ 
;:~~ ·o~~;~ still a bad call. He threw 
what it
that's where you score." 

Then he me out right away.,. looked like
The match will tee off at 
pushed me in the
SEASONS WANTED 
Alwyn Downs at 1 p.m. on 
again with papers,"
Saturday. Jorge Posada 
the elbow, Posada
Yankee's catcher
INDIVIDUAL GAMES 
and I said 
again, 'Don't 
Contact Katie McVoy at push me!' 

mcvo5965@saintmarys.edu. 'Don't push me!', and I got really upset. He shouldn't be able to touch me." 
After the game, Posada said he had a history with Fletcher. Posada claimed they argued after he was called out to end a game on Aug. 6, 
Preferred Tickets 
ATTENTION!!!! 
If interested in trying out for the Men's Tennis Team, meet Monday at 4pm at the Eck Tennis 
HUGS Participants 
Pavillion. 

HUGS is avolunteer programthrough Memorial Hospital 
Questions? Call 631-6929 

Pediatric Intensive Care Unit 
MANDATORY TB TESTING: TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2001 8:30 AM -12:30 PM 
but Justin Klemm was behind the plate for that game. 
"I might forget a name, but I'm pretty sure. I could be mistaken. There are a lot of umpires that are behind the plate. I can't remember all of them, but I thought that was the guy," Posada said. ''I'll look it up. Hopefully, it's not. It will make things a little bet­ter." 
But Posada said if he did mistake Fletcher it wouldn't change his feelings about him. 
"It doesn't matter. It's still a bad call. He threw me out right away," Posada said. "When's somebody is pushing you, when you're mad at them, I mean obviously you can"t do nothing to him, but you don't need to keep push­ing. Either way, even a player can't be pushing an umpire, no matter what. That's why I got upset." 
Pictures of the confronta­tion appear to show Posada spitting in Fletcher"s face, but Posada said that"s not the case. 
"When you're furious things 
come out of 
y o u r 
s a i d . 
"Things 
came out of 
his mouth, too." 
Crew chief umpire Larry Young said on Monday that he would file reports to Frank Robinson, who overseas disci­plinary actions for Maj or League Baseball. Posada said Robinson hadn"t contacted him yet. 
"I don't know what's going to happen. Like I said, I over­reacted," Posada said. 
New York manager Joe Torre didn't want to comment until a decision is announced. 

Robinson angered Torre last month when pitcher Ted Lilly was suspended for six games, but Torre said he didn't think that would have any effect on Robinson's deci­sion to suspend Posada. 

AT UNIVERSITY HEALTH SERVICES 
Thursday, September 13 6:00p Riehle Sand Courts (formaly Stepan Courts)
PRIOR TO YOUR TB TEST, YOU MUST OBTAIN MMR AND CHICKEN POX 
Co-Rec -6 on 6* *Minium of Two Females on the Court at all Times
DATES FROM YOUR FAMILY AND BRING THEM WITH YOU. 
Register a Team in Advance at RecSports Deadline:
QUESTIONS: CALLJENTONKOVICH @284-7910EXT. 2053 
Wednesday, September 12 at 6:00 PM ~e-3/~.;= 
TOURNAMENT IS LIMITED TO THE FIRST 12 TEAMS THAT ENTER 
-

¦ 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, September 7, 2001 


Volleyball 
continued from page 24 
played them it was tough for us because we were playing some of the best teams in the country. I think we were a little intimidated at first but we came around and did a good job." 
In the loss to UCLA, Kim Fletcher and Jessica Kinder combined for six kills. eight digs and two aces to lead the Irish. 
Fletcher earned the MVP honors last weekend as Notre Dame opened the season with a 3-0 mark at the home Shamrock Invitational. Teammate Malinda Goralski notched Big East Co-Player of the Week honors after recording a career-high 11 blocks in Notre Dame's 
ing played them last year because I don't think it's such a shock when you see them," Brown said. "While they are very talented, I think there are some weaknesses that we can try to take advantage of." 
One adjustment the Irish must make to succeed against the Cornhuskers is accli­mating themselves to the sold out Nebraska Coliseum. Last year Notre Dame's all-time volleyball attendance record was set when the Cornhuskers visited South Bend the same weekend as the Notre Dame­Nebraska football game. 
More than 3,000 fans -mostly wearing red -packed the Joyce Center that day. The same can be expected on Saturday as the game is already sold out. 
"Usually during the rally it doesn't get so loud that you can't hear," Brown said. "We don't really anticipate 
four-game victory over that it would affect us
"/ think this year, there's
Idaho Saturday night. that much. I think it just
no fear factor 
"I think it's indicative of makes a more exciting the fact that they both against Nebraska.,. atmosphere to play in. I had great tournaments," think teams usually play Brown said of both better when there's more 
Marcia Bomhack
award-winners. "Kim people and there's more had a slightly higher hit­outside hitter excitement and there's a 
ting percentage and more digs, obviously, because she plays back row. She played some really good defense and passed the ball for us. Malinda was off the charts on blocking." 
Nebraska is a familiar foe for Notre Dame, as the Irish and Huskers have shared the court seven times, with Nebraska holding a 5-2 edge. Notre Dame has not topped Nebraska since ending the Huskers' season in the second round of the 1993 NCAA tournament. 
Brown is excited for the Irish take on a No. 1 team for just the third time ever. 
"Any time you have an opportunity to play a No. 1-ranked team in the country, I think that's a great experience," Brown said. "It gives our players the opportunity to just go in and play hard and play with no fear." 
Despite the dominating Nebraska win last season, Brown expects her team to benefit from having played the Cornhuskers exactly one year before this year's rematch. 
"I think it works to our advantage in hav­band." 
Sunday's contest pits 
the Irish against the Waves for the first time ever. Brown and her squad watched tapes of Pepperdine's earlier ga11.1es this season on Wednesday afternoon. 
"We do know the personnel at Pepperdine and they are a very good team," Brown said. "They're ranked 15th in the country this week. So we know that all three oppo­nents are quality and they're going to push us to be as good as we can be." 
Brown may be thin.king positive, but the team's sentiments about this weekend N both on the volleyball court and the gridiron were perhaps put best by senior captain Marcia Bomhack. 
"I think this year, there's no fear factor against Nebraska," Bomhack said. "We're just going to go in and play very aggressive­ly and surprise some people." 
Contact Noah Amstadter at amstadter .1@nd.edu. 
~ 
V 

ND AFTER FIVE 


FRIDAV, SEPTEMBER 7 
7:00 
p.m Women's Soccer: · Indiana vs. ND, Alumni Field 

7:00 
p.m. -10:00 p.m. Drop In Badminton, Rolfs 

7:00 
p.m. SUB Movies: Pearl Harbor and Saving Private Ryan, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 

7:00 
p.m. Flipside Bowling Trip, Meet at Library Circle* 


7:30 p.m. ND Women's Soccer vs. Penn State, Alumni Field 
8:00 p.m. 807 Mass, Lounge, Coleman Morse Center 
9:00 p.m. Crafting Corner: Make your own dorm door mat, Dooley Room, LaFortune Student Center 
8:30 p.m. -Midnight ND Express Pool Room open, free billiards, LaFortune Student Center 
9:00 p.m. Loft Show: Matthew West in Concert, LaFortune Student Center Ballroom 
10:30 p.m. SUB Movies: Pearl Harbor and Saving Private Ryan, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 
11 :00 p.m. Bingo, LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame Room 
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER B 
6: 15 p.m. Outdoor televised game watch of ND vs. Nebraska football, North Quad 
8:00 p.m. SUB Movies: Pearl Harborand Saving Private Rvan, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 
8:30 p.m. -Midnight ND Express Pool 
Room open, free billiards, LaFortune Student Center 
10:00 p.m. -1:00 a.m Open Karaoke in the Huddle, LaFortune Student Center 
Following the football game: Clover Comedy Club featuring Tim Young, LaFortune Student Center Ballroom 
11 :30 p.m. SUB Movies: Pearl Harbor and 
Saving Private Ryan, DeBartolo 101 and 155* . 
This ad is published by the Student Activities Of­fice. Programs subject to change without notice. 
* All programs are free to ND students unless marked by an *. 
FOR MORE INFORhlfATION, 'VISIT: www.nd.edu/-.-sao/ 
Friday, September 7, 2001 page 21
The Observer . SPORTS 


TIM KACMAR/The Observer 

Sophomore forward Amy Warner drives upfield against No. 25 Hartford in last weekend's KeyBank Classic. The Irish face two unranked squads this weekend at home. 
, 
' 
,
ET 


Automobiles o Motorcycles o Boats/Toys o Appliances o 
Computerso 
furnishing o 
Sfereoso 

Classified ads of the 21st Century, Shop& Sell for a fraction of the price. This Site is advertised on Ebay, AOL, TV/Vero Yahoo along with all local formats, and it stay on until its SOLD Tools o 
Petso

One Photo 500 Words Until Sold 
Includes Bowling Shoes andPrizes 
4210 Lincolnway West South Bend, IN 46628 234-4167 
Pruzinsky said the Irish have been concentrating on com­
Women 
munication and organization 
continued from page 24 
of players back," said Pruzinsky. "Hopefully more freshman and other people will play. [Coach Randy Waldrum] will switch it around a lot and see." 
The Irish will be without the services of freshman Mary Boland this weekend. She is out of the lineup indefinitely with a leg injury sustained in the closing 
on defense this week in prac­tice. 
On the offensive end, the Irish failed to explode for any muli-goal binges last week­end, but was at the very least consistent against two quality programs: Pruzinsky explained that the offense has been perfecting their set plays and "combos." 
If history is any indication, the Irish should have no trou­ble dispatching 
minutes of both the 
I a s t "The players that work Badgers and Friday's their hardest will the Hoosiers. Penn State Notre Dame
stay on the field.,, 
g a m e . has beaten Boland had each team 10 seen con­Melissa Tancredi times in a row. siderable forward And, for good playing measure, throw time early in the Notre this season. Dame's 28-game home win­
During practice this week, ning streak. the Irish have been honing the Whatever the outcome this skills that seemed to be lack­weekend, the Irish lineup see ing in last week's action. many different faces. While the defense only "I think [Waldrum] wants to allowed one goal, Pruzinsky get a lot of players in," said said there was definitely room Tancredi. "The players that for improvement on the back­work their hardest will stay on line. the field." 
"We didn't communicate well," said Pruzinsky. "We were defending individually, Contact Jeff Baltruzak at not more as a group." jbaltrul@nd.edu 
Want to write 
Sports? 
Call 1-4543 
-
(JA££Eri 
¥Introduction to all levels ¥Students are instructed according to their level ¥The fun way to stay healthy and fit Classes Meet:
Beginner  Sundays  1 :00pm-2:30pm  
Wednesdays  6:30pm-7:45pm  
Advanced  Sundays Wednesdays  2:30pm-4:00pm 7:45pm-9:00pm  
Pointe  Sundays  4:00pm-4:45pm  
Wednesdays  9:00pm-9:30pm  

All classes meet at the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 
Information Meeting Sunday, September 9 1:OOpm -Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 
Register in Advance at RecSPorts . Registration Fee is $39.00 for Ballet & $10 for Pointe Sign-Ups Begin Monday, September 10 -8:00am Space is Limited . Open to all NO students, faculty, saff, retirees and their spouses. 
R~.!=;-rv~ 
-
1 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, September 7, 2001 


DUFFY-MARIE ARNOULT/The Observer 
Junior forward Rafael Garcia handles the ball against Villanova Sept. 1. The Irish travel to Greenville, S.C. to take on Furman Friday. 

Hey Fighting Irish! Get Connected Now! 
Save on High-Speed Internet &
-

Cable TV from 
¦ Cable TV gives you 
the best television has to offer with ESPN's 
2-Minute Drill, The Sopranos on HBO, plus over 35 commercial­free music channels. 

¦ @Home High-Speed 
Internet Service provides the fastest 
and easiest way 
to connect to 
the Internet. 

Call AT&T Broadband Today ... 
For Cable TV r 1-800-968-5100
I 
I 
i. 
I 
i: For@Home Internet Service 
V. ( 
. I
I· 1-888-824-8295 
-AT&TBroadband

-
Some restrictions apply. Offer expires 9/30/01. Digital Cable is available in some areas. Some services only available in off-campus housing. Call AT&T Broadband for details. 
Men 
continued from page 24 

the National Soccer Coaches Association of America poll. This marks the first time the team has held a top 25 spot in two years. Clark does not want to let the ranking get in the way of his team's concentration, however. "Rankings don't mean anything when you're playing two quali­ty teams like Furman and Clemson," Clark stated. 
The Irish defense, which was superb in its shutout of Villanova, will be tested once again Friday night by the high-powered offense of the Furman Paladins. 
Fresh off of a 7-0 defeat of Belmont, in which sophomore Scott Hoch scored three goals and an assist, the Paladins should bring a good challenge to the Notre Dame defense, which has yet to give up a goal in its three regular-season and exhibition games. 
"We've been training all week long to stay in defensive shape," sophomore co-captain Greg Martin said. "This will be a good test for us, but if we play our best, I think we can compete with any team in the country." 
Martin, a defender, was awarded the Big East Defensive Player of the Week Award for his efforts in the Villanova victory, in which he scored his first career points with a goal and an assist. 
On Sunday, things should not get any easier as the Irish face the Clemson Tigers. 
Clemson has gotten off to a rough start this year, going 1-2, los­ing both of the games in tight 2-1 matches. Even with the two losses, the Tigers have outshot their opponents 52-31. Clemson brings with them a stingy defense led by goalkeepers Doug Warren and Patrick Fullerton and defenders Oguchi Onyewu and Eric Lewis. 
"To be· honest, these are two games that we need to win that we maybe aren't supposed to get," said Martin. "But if you want to be one of the best teams in the country, you have to win some of the games that on paper you might not be ready for." 
Contact writer at cfederic@nd.edu . 
•
: 
•
• •
•
• •
• •
•
•
• •
•
: 
Beginner Jazz Dance 
{;­

Advanced Jazz Dance 
Beg Classes:  Mondays  6:30pm-7:45pm  
Thursdays  7:00pm-8: l 5pm  
Adv. Classes: Mondays  7:45pm-9:00pm  
Thursdays  8:15pm-9:30pm  

Activity Room 2 -Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 
Register in Advance at RecSports -$39 fee 
Sign-Ups Begin Monday, September 10 at 8:00am Info Meeting September 9, 1:30 pm RSRC Act.Rm. 2 Classes Begin Thursday, September 13 No Experience Necessary. Space is limited. 
Classes open to all ND students, faculty, staff, retirees, and their spouses. 
R~fy9~z =­
•
: •
•
•
:
•
• 
• 
• • 
: 
ATHLETIC TRAINING & SPORTS MEDICINE 
There will be a meeting for any Notre Dame freshmen students interested in the student athletic training program. The meeting will be held on Monday, September IO at 4: 15 p.m. in the Joyce Center Athletic Training Room 


'• \ ... ·_ _ '· \ '. 
' \ ' 

Friday, September 7, 2001 
The Observer . TODAY page 23 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
· TOM KEELEY 

FOXTROT 
BILLAMEED 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 27 Mount 1 Kind of atty. (Minnesota ski 
resort)

5 Funny producer 
30 Pleiades

15 Prefix with 
pursuer

dermal 
31 Stay on top of 

16 Frozen treat 
trends 

17 "Did you forget 
35 Where the going 

about me?" 
rate is charged?

18 Given to 
37 She followed 

forcefully 
Lou as first lady19 They may be 
39 No posh hotels 

fawning 
41 Mentor of 20 Two-time U.S. Eminem Open winner 
42 1999 air strike 

Fraser 
authorizer 21 Loam 
43 Deep sleeps 

component 
44 Michael Bolton's 22 Debut of 
"How Be 

Oct. 11, 1975 Lovers" 23 Savior 48 Doing business 24 Philosopher 50 Hoops Diderot competition, 25 Member of the briefly First Triumvirate 51 Specialty 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

52 Pluto's purview 54 Castor and Pollux's mother 55 Program interruption 57 Scene of heavy 
W.W. I fighting 58 Tom, say 59 Catalog 60 Millionaire's 
address? 61 Grub 
DOWN 1 Place of poor 
radio reception 2 Recognizing 3 Heavy metal 
producer? 4 Some cats 5 Passenger 
vehicle 6 Choice word? 7 Literally, empty 
orchestra 8 End of the year, for some 
9 Smart-alecky 10 Backstabber 11 Loo message 12 It may be made 
on the rebound 13 Potentially pathogenic strain 
14 Checks for letters? 23 Plant of the 
nightshade family 24 Gave extra attention 26 End of the world? 

44 Camp craft 
52 Weight45 Rock tour venue 
53 Parrot 
46 Semiaquatic 54 1988 Mastersswimmers winner

47 Somewhat irresolute? 56 Court matter 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Puzzle by B1'9ndan Emmett Oui9ley 28 Wows 43 Certain stanza 49 Nez 
29 No later than, 
informally 

31 No angel 
32 Heavenly sight 
33 Land of 13,500+ 
islands 34 Most scorching 36 Case studier's 
org. 38 They may follow computer crashes 40 "Ha, that was funny" 
Visit The Observer on the web at http.1/observer.nd.edu/ 
RYAN

BEMUSED AND BEFUDDLED 
CUNNINGHAM 


-
... 
• 
"Allegedly, your mom's a big dirty tramp. Wait, you can't get mad. I said allegedly" 
HOROSCOPE 
FRIDA~SEYTEMBER~2001 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Michael Feinstein, Julie Kavner, Tom Everett Scott, Corbin Bernsen, Peggy Noonan, Oui.ssie Hynde, Devon Sawa 
}Iappy Birthday: Stop chang­ing your mind and get on with it. Follow the path you select to the end without deviating from your chosen course. Your ability to analyze will help you stand out in a crowd, but don't get so wrapped up in detail that you neglect to finish. Your numbers: 5, 14, 19, 27, 31, 36 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
You can pick up overtime today. Channel your energy wisely and score points with tne boss. Don't depend on co-workers for help; they'll only hold you back and try to make you look bad. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Secret information will help you make decisions, and your hard work will pay off. Hidd~n ~ will come m handy. Dealing with large corporations or government agencies will go well. 000 
GEMINI. (May 21-June 20): Don't be coerced into giving out private information. Be careful and protect yoUl' interests; some­one close to you is jealous and unpredictable. 00 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
Stay busy with new interests that will take your mind off personal troubles. The friends you encounter will be good listeners and will have a host of good sug­gestions. 0000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your mate will want undivided atten­tion. If you aren't prepared to give it, make plans to be as far away as possible. To tell the truth, 
EUGENIA LAST 

,/ 
you are guilty of neglect. 00 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You can learn valuable informa­tion by listening to those with experience. Close friends will shed some light on your personal situation if you discuss private matters.00000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You aren't seeing your financial pic­ture too clearly. Do not overspend on luxury items or on family members who want you to buy them unnecessary apparel. You must be wise to be lucky. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
Romance is making you extreme­ly devoted to a special someone. Tell your lover how you feel and rekindle the spark that ignited the first time you met. 0000 
SAGIITARRJS (Nmt 22-Dec. 21): The changes at work will be ben­eficial if you accept them. Be ready to take advanta_ge of tJ:te drcw:nstances and be diplomatic. 
000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan.19): You should start developing some of those hobbies you used to enjoy so much. Spend more time with your family, getting back to basics. 0000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 

Hidden matters a.re likely to cause .. 
disruptions on the home front if 
you haven't been completely hon­
est If your mate is suspicious, ifs 
a good idea to clear the air before 
ifs too late. 00 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
New friendships will develop 
through the company you keep. 
Don't turn down invitations just 
because you are feeling low. You 
need to socialize to turn your 
mood around. 0000 

Birthday Baby: You are steadfast and true. As a leader with a mis­sion, you will alway~ have a purpose_~ mind ~d_direct others to fol­low. You are innovative, clever and willing to pitch m. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
C> 2001 Universal Press Syndicate 




ND WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL 
fi 
Campus Sports 
. 
Men's CC, p. 17 

. 
ND Women's CC, p. 17 

. 
SMC CC, p. 17 

. 
SMC Volleyball, p. 18 

. 
SMC Golf, p. 19 


O
THE 
BSERVER 


Friday, September 7, 2001 
Up against the best 

Junior defensive specialist Janie Aldrete passes the ball at the Shamrock Invitational at the Joyce Center last week­end. The Irish face three ranked teams this weekend, including No. 1 Nebraska. · 
National Sports 
. 
N.League, p. 14 


. 
Little League, p. 16 

. 
NHL, p. 16 

. 
W. Olympics, p. 16 


. 
Jorge Posada, p. 19 


Irish to face three higher-ranked teams in Lincoln 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Sports Editor 
Notre Dame versus Nebraska. The No. 1 team in the country hosting an underdog Irish squad. Notre Dame players preparing for the "Sea of Red" -Part 11. 
All sounds familiar, except for one thing: the contest described is Saturday afternoon's women's volleyball match between the Irish and Cornhuskers. Saturday's match is Notre Dame's second in the three-day U.S. Bank/Arby's Tournament. The Irish (3-0) also take on the No. 7 UCLA Bruins on Friday at 
4:30 p.m. and the No. 15 Pepperdine Waves at 1 p.m. Sunday. 
"I think that we're going into every match believing that we have an opportunity to win," said Irish head coach Debbie Brown. "We're certainly not going in just thinking that we're there to take up space." 
A year ago, Notre Dame hosted two of this weekend's opponents at the adidas Invitational. The Irish fell in three games to the eventual national champion Cornhuskers on Sept. 8, 2000 (3-15, 9-15, 12-15). They didn't fare much better the next day against the Bruins, falling (7-15, 7-15, 15-17). Brown remains encouraged by Notre Dame's late challenge against UCI.A. 
"The fact that we did compete well in the third game against them is good," Brown said. "I think the tournament last year when we 
see VOLLEYBALL/page 20 

By JEFF BALTRUZAK Assistant Spom Editor 
With two regular sea­son wins over ranked teams under their belt, the now third-ranked Notre Dame wom­e n ' s soccer team takes on In­di an a a n d w is -

Pruzinsky
consin t h i s weekend at Alumni Field. 
The Irish dispatched No. 8 Penn State and No. 25 Hartford in solid fash­ion last weekend, and 

( 
>(1, 
' ~.( 
ND.WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish meet Badgers, Hoosiers 
hope to build on two good, but not outstanding performances. 
"We all know we have to pick it up to be where we want to be," said junior defender Vanessa Pruzinsky, the defensive 
MVP of last weekendOs 
KeyBank Classic. 
Key to the Irish suc­
cess this weekend will be 
finding a cohesive and 
consistent lineup. Notre 
Dame played a game of 
positional musical chairs 
last weekend, most 
notably when senior 
Monica Gonzalez played 
forward, midfielder and 
defender in the Irish's Sept. 2 win against Hartford. 
Some of Notre Dame's lineup problems stem from injuries affecting 
key players. But junior midfielder Ashley Dryer is expected to return for this weekend's action. while the team is hoping to have the services of sophomore forward Melissa Tancredi, although Tancredi pre­dicts that her first game action will be Sept. 14 at Santa Clara. 
"[I'm] very anxious to get back," said Tancredi. "I'm just waiting my turn and working real hard." 
But the Irish will still experiment with lineups and positions, searching for that lineup to take on the team's California road trip to Santa Clara and Stanford. 
"We're getting a couple 
see WOMEN/page 21 

MEN'S SOCCER 
Notre Dame begins tough schedule at Furman Invite 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Spom Writer 
In the quest to be the best, a team 
has to go up against the best. For the ·Irish men's soccer team (1-0) the road back from mediocrity begins 
tonight. 
"We've got a tough schedule, and 
that is the exciting thing about 
sports," head coach Bobby Clark 
said. "You have to play the tough 
teams, and you get to see how you 
fare against the best." · 
Following a 5-0 victory last week­
end against Big East opponent 
Villanova, Notre Dame nO"w travels to 
Greenville, S.C. to play in the Furman 
Invitational. The Irish will face two of 
the top teams in the nation, playing 
Furman and Clemson, ranked fifth 
and 16th, respectively, in the Soccer America Magazine Poll. 
Last season, the Irish finished 7-8-2 and failed to qualify for the Big East tournament. Along the way, however, Notre Dame topped No. 10 St. John's and barely lost to eventual national champion Connecticut. This year, Clark revels in the chance to play such tough competition. 
"It gives us a nice, early-season test because you get to see how you stack up . against the best," Clark said. "If you play them well, that's great. But if you don't, then you see what you have to work on throughout the sea­son to try to build up to being one of the top teams." 
After their first week under their new head coach, the Irish earned their way back into the national rankings, gaining a spot at No. 21 in 
see MEN/page22 
't
)i) 
. SMC Volleyball at Lake Michigan College, 7p.m.
• Ir 1-'.•' 
OBSERVER 

. ND Volleyball vs. UCLA, Fri., 4:30 p.m.
SPORTS
{ online classifieds 
1:. . ND Women's Soccer vs. Indiana, Fri., 7 p.m. >~ AT AGLANCE . Football at Nebraska, Sat., 5 p.m. http://www.nd.edu/~observer f 
..
I i
I .• 
;1 . 
t•' 

t t , I • t f t \ , ~ \-• • I 
I l \ \ \
'\ \ . ' 
'\ t \ I ~ l ) l , \ ' i l \ \ \ t \ \ \ ~ \ \ 
' . ' . . \ ' ' ~ 
' \ \ ~ \ ' I \ \ ' ' ,. ' .
' ' 

\ >,LI \ 1 LI • 


r----·---~-----...........,............111191.........--------~'.-. •:-:--:••~\'"".-:--.-:-.-'-:"'"".'"-----------------:-.-:-."'":'.""'.'.;~~.--:,__.---------............________ 
page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 7, 2001 
Irish have game film, Huskers have experience 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Associate Sports Editor 
Is having experience without knowing the enemy better than knowing the enemy without having experience? 
Saturday night, the question will be answered when No. 17 Notre Dame, a team that has yet to play its first game of the year, faces two-game winner No. 4 Nebraska. 
"The fact that we haven't played a game, that we've had closed practices, maybe that gives us a slight advantage," said Irish head coach Bob Davie. 
Right now, the biggest mystery is what the Irish are going to do at quar­terback.While sophomore Matt Lovecchio is the starter, Davie has been ambiguous as to the role backups Carlyle Holiday and Jared Clark will play. 
It's possible all three could see play­ing time; it's possible that only LoVecchio will play. Whatever his plan is, Davie isn't telling. 
"I want to give our football team every advantage we can to win," he said. "We certainly have a plan right now. Our players know the plan. But I don't think it's in my best interests or the team's best interests to disclose that right now." 
While Nebraska is virtually clueless about what Notre Dame plans to do at quarterback, the Irish know exactly what the Husker offense revolves around: quarterback Eric Crouch. But knowing what Nebraska plans to do is one thing -stopping Crouch is another thing entirely. 
"People are making comments about his passing abilities," Notre Dame line­
backer Tyreo Harrison said. "J think he other Irish corner. is our players realize that that's what it what you have to stop to win the game is the same Crouch that has given Both teams have also worked exten­takes to win. These kids are excited -that hasn't changed in forever." teams problems ever since he has been sively on special teams -something about special teams." But according to Crouch, the Huskers playing. I think he is definitely going to that kept Notre Dame in the game last But quarterbacks and special teams have the advantage because they've be at his best against us. We just need year. are secondary in Saturday's game. played in two games. to be ready to stop him." "What hurt us last year was special What everyone wants to know is if the "I know that we've learned from 
Crouch has been less than spectacular teams," Crouch said. "That has been Irish, who are 5-0 in season openers, going out there and seeing some differ­
passing the ball, a possible boon for an our emphasis this week because we felt can win another one. ence looks in a game atmosphere," he inexperienced Notre Dame secondary that we lost that part of the game last "We have an advantage to see what said. "We know what it's like on the that doesn't even have an established year." they have done," Harrison said. "You field. We are getting our timing down. starter at one cornerback. While Shane "It's going to be hard to have the already know what you have to do Games are different from practice and Walton is firmly entrenched on one side same statistics we have in special against Nebraska. You know who the scrimmages." 
of the field, Davie has said that Jason teams," Davie said. "It will probably be weapons are and you know that you Beckstrom, Vontez Duff and Clifford hard to have the same statistics with have to be disciplined enough to take 
Contact Andrew Soukup at Jefferson will all see playing time at the turnovers . . . But the encouraging thing care of each responsibility. You know asoukup@nd.edu . 


... just come to 1st Source. As the area's leading financial institution, we can offer you unparalleled convenience, competitive products and pricing, and a level of service second to none. 
Convenience• With over 50 banking centers and ATMs in the a(ea, 1st Source is everywhere you might be. Visit our full-service office in the Haggar College Center at Saint Mary's, complete with ATM, or use one of our other convenient ATMs in the Hesburgh Library or at LeMans Hall. 
Internet B~nking • With 1st Source Bank's Online banking service for students, BankOnCampus.com, you can check your balances, transfer money between accounts, and everi pay bills. For all the details visit us online or drops us an e-mail at bankonca mpus@ lstsource.com. 
Electronic Funds Transfer • Expecting money from home? 1st Source can make getting money from home fast and easy by arranging to have the money transfered to you electronically. 
When it comes to banking, 1st Source has you covered. So save your prayers for a real crisis -like finals! 
Saint Mary's Banking Center • 235-2019 M-Th • 10:00 to 4:00 F • 10:00 to 4:30 
Friday, September 7, 2001 page 3 
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
Leading by example 
Not even a shoulder injury could dim Irons' dedication to his teammates 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Sports Writer 
up close & 
Grant Irons is rarely the last 
personal
player on the field for practice. But shortly before a Fiesta Bowl practice last December, 
WITH GRANT 
Irons was getting ready for practice when he discovered his 
IRONS 
helmet was missing. He franti­
cally searched his locker and every other place he might have left it but still couldn't find it. 
"He was going crazy," line­backer Tyreo Harrison said. "He was about to lose his mind.". 
Irons doesn't remember being as hysterical as Harrison 

Grant Irons 
claims, but he was very con­
cerned that he was going to 
miss practice because of his lost 
helmet. 
birthdate: July 7, 1979 "I thought I must have mis­
hometown: The Woodlands, 
placed it. Then I hear all these 
Texas
giggles and laughs all around 
major: MBA
the locker room," Irons said. "I 
ended up being the last one out 
favorite place on campus: the to the field because they hid my 
dining hall helmet." 
best advice ever recieved: "Be 
Irons' dedication to practice 
true to thyself' 
and his teammates goes beyond 
favorite class: e-business
most athletes: He stressed 
about being late for practice 
technologies even when he was sidelined 
favorite food: fettuccini alfredo 
with an injury. 
favorite book: "Attitude isAfter he injured his shoulder 
Everything"
against Nebraska last fall, Irons could have taken it easy. He could have showed up for prac­tice and stood on the sidelines painful as the news he heardin shorts and a T-shirt. 
the next day.
But that wouldn't be Grant 
"The real pain I experiencedIrons. 
was the morning after when theIrons showed up for practice doctors told me it was a season­
every day wearing his jersey, 
ending injury," Irons said. 
helmet and sometimes even 
Even though he had to watchshoulder pads. 
the rest of the game from the"We tried to explain to him sidelines, he was still a leader.
that it was OK [to miss prac­At the end of the game, he
tice,]" Harrison said. "I guess was at the front of student bodyhe felt bad or that he'd done 
leading the cheers for his
something wrong if he didn't exhausted but defeated team­
come out there in pads. 
mates. With his one good armSometimes he would come out 
he waved for the students tothere with shoulder pads on 
scream even louder in appreci­and we'd be like, 'You can't ation for his teammates' efforts.
play man. There is no reason to 
He sat out spring practices
do that.'" 
after five clamps were surgical­ly inserted into his shoulder but
Falling down 
returned to full contact drills
Irons' dedication to his team­this summer feeling 100 per­
mates, his coaches and his 
cent. Nevertheless, he admits
school goes far beyond any 
being a little tentative the firstcliches or rah-rah talk. When time his shoulder had to take aIrons says he enjoyed the stren­hit. 
uous rehabilitation for his 
"There was some reluctanceshoulder and never felt sorry in the beginning but as beganfor himself, it's easy to believe 
to play I realized everything
him. 
had fully healed and back to"I embraced [the rehab,]" he normal," he said.
said. "I looked forward to the rehab process. I just wanted to 
A coach's dream 
be back with my teammates." 
Just after practice MondayAlthough he never left his evening, a tiny hand tug at 
teammates in spirit, his return 
Irons' belt. From nearly six­
to the field has been a long and-a-half feet in the air, Irons
journey. lie tore every liga­
looked down at one of his small ment, every tendon and most of admiring fans.
the cartilage in his right shoul­"My football practice starts
der against Nebraska. Irons, 
tomorrow," he said.
focused on the game and his "That's great Skylar," Irons 
team, said he didn't feel too 
said with a smile on his face. 
much pain when he first 
Irons' smile was only rivaledinjured his shoulder. 
by Skylar, who asked Irons for"With all the adrenaline and 
just one more thing: "Kick
the excitement of the game, I Nebraska's butt for me."
really didn't feel it," Irons said. 
Irons only laughed as the
"I was so zoomed in, I blocked pint-sized football star ran backit out." 
to his father. 
Tearing all the ligaments in 
But again, that's Grant Irons:
his shoulder wasn't nearly as he shows the same patience, 
enthusiasm and respect to everyone he encounters. 
"It shows what kind of a per­son he is," Davie said. "Every player in our football team respects Grant Irons and I'm sure everybody on this campus that's been around him feels the same way." 
The two-time captain who graduated in May with a double degree in management infor­mation systems and business management is everything a coach could want, according to defensive coordinator Greg Mattison. 
"He leads by example in the way he works. He's very consis­tent," he said. "He's there everyday with a great attitude trying to get better. To me that's what a captain does." 
"Being out of action for an entire year was tough. I never want to be in that position again. In order for me to over­come that adversity, I had to adjust my attitude and embrace each opportunity," he said. "I had to change my mental out­look. I couldn't allow myself to look at the situation as nega-


Fifth-year senior Grant Irons blows through a tackling dummy during practice earlier this fall. Last season, when Irons was sidelined with a shoulder Injury, the co-captain still showed up to 
practice every day wearing his gold helmet. 
tive. But instead as something positive." 
How he changed his mental outlook to be more positive is hard to understand. Teammates and coaches have always known him to be extremely upbeat. 
"He's just an bright, vibrant, happy guy," Mattison said. "It's kind of neat to always see a guy who comes out with a smile on his face always ready to go." 
Ready to go 
Irons' hard work and positive attitude has brought him full circle. Last year, he entered the Nebraska game as one of four senior captains ready to bring Notre Dame back to the top. One year later, he travels to Nebrar.ka as a first-year gradu­ate student and one of four cap­tains ready to bring Notre Dame back to the top. He team­mates certainly welcome him back. 
"Grant Irons on the practice field is a good thing however he is going to be there," Harrison said. "He is just a great guy to have around because of his enthusiasm and how much he wants to be there and how sin­cere he is. It's great to have him back out there in the hud­dle." 
"He brings some much energy to the table," defensive end Anthony Weaver said. "I don't where he gets it from. Some people get tired on occasion but he is always going full speed. He just has a non-stop motor." 
In Lincoln this Saturday, there are few certainties. No one knows if quarterback Matt Lovecchio will suffer a sopho­more slump or how Arnaz Battle will perform as a wide receiver. 
But there is one thing you can count on. 
No matter what happens, come hell, high water or miss­ing helmets, Grant Irons will be on the practice field Monday afternoon. 
On time 
In full pads. 
With a big smile on his face. 
Contact Mike Connolly at Connolly.28@nd.edu. 

page4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 7, 2001 

Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish Record: 0-0 AP: No. 17 Coaches: No. 17 
NOTRE DAME 200 l Schedule  
Sept. 8 at Nebraska Sept. 15 at Purdue Sept. 22 Michfgan St. Sept.. 29 at Texas A&M Oct. 6 Pittsburgh Oct. 13 W. Virginia Oct. 20 USC Oct. 27 at BC Nov. 3 Tennessee Nov. 17 Navy Nov. 24 at Stanford  

NOTRE DAME 
OFFENSE 

TAILBACK 
CORNE ABACK 
32-Howard 
LffTTACKLE 5-Grace
12-Flsher 
7l-lllldl 
16-Swlney

22-Jones 
63-Curtln 

LEFT GUARD INSIDE 79-Mallall LINEBACKER 
67-Glllls 43-Sha¦le 
47{:ooper 
RIGHT ENO 
98-Adaml 
95-Wichman 

pc; .
,, 
E

FULLBACK 
GUARD

36-lopietllkl 
71l-l.w

40-Murray 
70n 

14-Booker -' 
-Faine ­72-Scarola /RIGHT TACKLE 

76-Vollers ~ 
70·Molinaro 

STRONG
E 
SAFETY

FLANKER -II 
14-looker

6-G!Yens NeftOn 
21-Bland3-Battle 
..•.· --) 
OUTSIDE LINEBACKER
c:j t-Vellral 

17-Hollowell 57-Callayej CORNERBACK 92-Smith 3-Cmer 28-Rk:l(etts 
LEFT END , I 

QUARTERBACKS IRISH RUSHING IRISH PASSING 
.,~
,,:·;Y:,__ -, -•· 
' .
•-~--';:.: 


Davie head coach 

Bob Davie fifth season at Notre Dame career record: 
30-19 
at Notre Dame: 
30-19 
against Nebraska: 0-1 
Roster 

No. Name Pos. HI. WL YR 
1 Jared Clark QB 6-4 230 so 2 Carlos Pierre-Antoine llB 6-3 241 SR 2 Dan Novakov QB 6-1 215 JR 3 Amaz Battle FL 6--1 210 SR 4 Justin Smith FS 5-11 197 SR 5 Ron Israel ss 6-1 212 SR 6 David Givens FL 6-3 212 SR 7 Carlyle Holiday QB 6-3 218 so 8 Lorenzo Crawford Fl 5-10 190 so 8 Matt Krueger Fl 5-10 175 so 9 Jason Beckstrom CB 5-10 186 JR lO Matt LoVecchio QB 6-4 205 so 10 Ryan Krueger QB 5--9 186 SR 12 Tony Fisher TB 6-2 226 SR 13 Nick Setta KIP 5-11 175 JR 14 Gary Godsey TE 6-6 270 JR 15 Clifford Jefferson CB 5-9 176 SR 16 Abram Elam ss 6-0 210 so 17 Joey Hildbold p 5-10 188 JR 18 Ronnie Rodamer SE 6-4 210 so 19 Glenn Earl FS 6-1 210 JR 20 Gerome Sapp ss 6-0 214 JR 21 Javin Hunter SE 6-0 191 SR 
22. Julius Jones TB 5-10 210 JR 23 ChrisYura TB 6-0 225 JR 24 Chad DeBolt ILB 6-0 202 SR 25 Ryan Grant RB 6-1 198 FR 26 Garron Bible CB 5-10 191 so 28 Donald Dykes FS 5-11 195 SR 30 Rocky Boiman OLB 6-4 240 SR 31 Dwayne Francis FS 6-0 198 SR 32 Terrance Howard TB 6--1 195 SR 33 Courtney Watson ILB 6-1 232 JR 34 Vontez Duff CB 5-11 192 so 35 David Miller K 5-11 208 SR 35 Tim O'Neill TB 5-5 175 SR 36 Tom Lopienski FB 6-1 249 SR 37 Dwight Ellick CB 5-11 170 FR 
LLI 

38 Preston Jackson CB 5-9 176 so 
:E

38 Eric Nelson FB 6-0 225 SR 39 Brandon Hoyte ILB 6-0 219 FR 
c:r: 

40 Jason Murray FB 6-1 260 SR 
Q 

41 Mike Goolsby LB 6-3 240 so 42 Shane Walton CB 5-11 186 SR 
LLI
a::

44 Grant Irons DE 6-5 275 SR 
l­

45 Matt Sarb ss 5-11 200 SR 
o

46 Corey Mays ILB 6--1 234 FR 
47 MikeMcNair FB 6-0 237 SR 
z 

48 Justin Tuck OLB 6-5 215 FR 49 Derek Curry ILB 6--3 228 so 50 Cedric Hilliard NG 6--2 290 JR 51 Tyreo Harrison !LB 6-2 242 SR 52 Jeff Faine C 6-3 296 JR 52 Mark Mitchell OLB 5-10 200 SR 53 Jason Halvorson DL 6--2 240 JR 55 Zachary Giles OL 6--4 285 FR 56 John Crowther C 6-2 242 SR 56 Pat Ryan ILB 6-3 231 JR 
~ 

57 Justin Thomas OLB 6-1 245 JR 59 Brian Dierckman !LB 6-1 250 SR 
~ 

60 Da.rrell Campbell DT 6-4 296 JR 
a::

61 Jesse Dcsplinter LB 6--1 177 so 62 Casey Robin 0G 6-7 300 SR 
m 
LLI

63 Brennan Curtin OT 6-8 305 JR 64 Jeffrey Campbell DE 6-1 230 SR 
z 

65 Sean Milligan 0G 6-4 295 JR 66 JW Jordan C 6-1 275 SR 67 Ryan Gillis 0G 6-3 296 JR 69 Darin Mitchell OL 6-4 285 FR 70 Jim Molinaro OT 6-6 295 JR 72 Ryan Scarola 0G 6-5 308 SR 73 Mark LeVoir TE 6-7 310 FR 75 Kurt Vollers OT 6-7 312 SR 76 John Teasdale OT 6-5 305 SR 77 Greg Pauly DT 6-6 208 so 78 Jordan Black OT 6-6 318 SR 79 Sean Mahan OT 6-3 292 SR 80 Adam Tibble K 5-11 186 SR 80 Omar Jenkins WR 6-2 180 FR 81 Jerome Collins OLB 6--4 242 so 82 Bernard Akatu SE 5-10 190 SR 82 Matt Shelton WR 6-1 170 FR 83 Josh Gentine KIP 5-11 205 JR 84 John Owens TE 6-3 260 SR 85 Billy Palmer TE 6-3 265 so 86 Brendan Hart TE 6-2 255 so 87 Jonathan Smith WR 6-4 195 so 88 Carlos Campbell WR 6--1 190 FR 89 Matt Root TE 6-6 225 FR 90 Brian Beidatsch DL 6--4 265 FR 91 Jeff Thompson DL 6-5 26.5 FR 92 Kyle Budinscak DE 6-4 265 so 94 AndyWisne DT 6-3 285 SR 95 Ryan Roberts DE 6-2 262 SR 98 Anthony Weaver DE 6-3 286 SR 

--Jason Sapp 250 

___,,.9? DE 6-3 so 
COACHING 
The Fiesta Bowl loss put the pressure back on Davie's shoulders, but he's had three weeks to prepare for Nebraska. Davie's holding his cards close to his chest ­he's determined not to let anyone know what gameplan he plans to execute Saturday.  LoVecchio is the starter, but the Irish have two solid backups in Holiday and Clark. Lovecchio earned the starting job after he won seven straight games last year, but in the Fiesta Bowl ­his first big-time game ­he threw two intercep­tions.  Notre Dame has one of the best backfieds in the nation, but Jones, Howard and Fisher have been hampered by injury. The offensive line has also been troubled by injury. Milligan will be making his first career start at guard Saturday.  Last year, LoVecchio didn't throw the ball much, but this season, coaches have indicated they'll be throwing the ball more. The Irish have a solid group of receivers in Givens, Hunter and Battle.  

Solich has been under pressure to produce a national title ever since he took over for Osborne in 1998. While he's been able to make adjustments to his own team, he hasn't been able to see any film of Notre Dame yet.  Crouch is a front runner for the Heisman Trophy. He's extremely dangerous running the ball, and can make big plays at the right time for the Huskers, as shown when he ran for a 63-yard touchdown last year. However, his passing is suspect.  It's hard to tell how good·­Nebraska's run defense is because they haven't faced a running attack like Notre Dame's. Last week, Nebraska held Troy State to minus-25 yards rushing. In all, the Huskers have only allowed 31 rushing yards. ·  Again, Nebraska's sec­ondary hasn't really been tested. They recorded eight sacks against Troy State last week and had one inter­ception. In all. the Husker defense only allowed two yards of offense in the second half of last week's game.  
While LoVecchio's pass­ing abilities are just average. he has sh9wn he can avoid intercep­tions. The Irish get the edge because the one player the Huskers couldn't stop last year ­Battle ­is noW'a 'poten­tially game-breaking receiver.  
Davie and Co. get the edge because, while both coaches have underachieved accord­ing to their program's expectations, the lrish have game film and can prepare for Nebraska's offense. Solich doesn't have that luxury.  While Lovecchio is con­sistent, he isn't Eric Crouch. And Crouch, a candidate for the Heisman, has the ability to alter games single­handedly. You can stop him 9 times out of 10, but the one time you don't, he 'II score a touchdown  This is a matchup of uncertainties. Notre EYi'!!S~ but until Saturday night, nobody knows which one is better  

~ 

·­
Notre Dame's three-headed backfield will Notre Dame should be able to get the job done push downfield and wear out the Nebraska offensively. However, in order for the Irish to defense quickly. Arnaz Battle will play an win, Notre Dame's defense must stop Eric
Irish 

important part, in multiple roles. In the end, Crouch from making the big play. While Nick Setta will boot one through the Crouch will run over the defense early, he uprights as the clock runs down to 0:00. won't be able to pass his way to victory in the 
experts 

fourth quarter. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 24 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 20 
Noah Amstadter Nebraska 21 Andrew Soukup 
Nebraska 17 

sports editor associate sports editor 
---------------------------------------....----------­
·~ . -­

Friday, September 7, 2001 
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 5 
Nebraska 

:o 
Cornhuskers 
Record: 2-0 


AP: No. 5 Coaches: No. 4 

Frank Solich
NEBRASKA 
fourth season at Nebraska
2001 Schedule 
career record: 
Aug. 25 TCU -W 
31-7 
at Nebraska:
Sept. 1 Troy State -W 
31-7 

Solich

against Notre
Sept. 8 Notre Dame 
head coach

Dame: 1-0 

Roster 

COANERBACK 
15-J1fflr1on 
34-Duff 
FREE 
SAffiY 
28-Dybl 

1!Hart LINEBACKER 
INSIDE 

~~i:r:!~DII 
Antoine 
STRONG SAFETY 
5-lsrlil 20-iapp 

HUSKER RUSHING 
• ;.: .t Controlling Crouch is the key to controlling Nebraska's offe·nse. Irons, Weaver, Campbell and Wisne will have a challenge battling the Nebraska line. However, the Irish are big and physical, something the Huskers haven't seen all year. 
Nebraska runs an option package in their offense that will be tough for the Irish to stop. Along with the dynamic Crouch, Diedrick is a powerful 1­back. The offensive line has two new members, and they've shown weak­ness early in the season. 
Nebraska simply has too many weapons and the Irish don't have the nec­essary experience along the front seven. Campbell and Watson are new starters for the Irish, and Wisne only saw limited playing time last season. 
HUSKER PASSING 
The Irish secondary is weak is probably the biggest question mark. Only Walton and Israels started last season. Boiman will probably cover Wistrom most of the game. The Irish will have rely on their front four to rush Crouch. 
Against TCU and Troy State, Crouch only aver­aged 130 passing yards a game. He doesn't have the game-breaking wide receivers the Huskers had last year. llowever, tight end Wistrom is a potent part of the Husker offense. 
This is the weakness for both teams. The Irish have a questionable sec­
iM!lf14~ 
ble throwing the ball, and even he gets protec­tion, his receivers often still drop the ball. 

SPECIAL TEAMS 
This was the bright spot of last year's team. Jones is a potent kick returner, and he ran a kickoff back for a touchdown last year against Nebraska. Setta was inconstent last year, only converting 8-of-14 field goals. The Irish blocked several kicks last year 
Last year. breakdowns on special teams allowed the Irish to claw back into the game. The Huskers are averaging 
21.5 yards per kickoff return and 9.1 yards per punt return. Brown only attempted one field goal this year -and he missed it. 
This was the pride of the Irish last year, and it doesn't look like things are going to change this year. Davie seems res­onp,bly confident. in Setta. and even though Jones is playing hurt, the Irish have a game­breaker back to return kicks. 

The game will come down to a battle between the biggest weaknesses on each team: Nebraska's passing against Notre Dame's pass defense; Vontez Duff, however, will tip the game in Notre Dame's favor with a key inter­ception return for a touchdown. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 21 Nebraska 20 


Mike Connolly Kerry Smith editor in chief assistant managing editor 
The Irish are hungry for some redemption after last year's heartbreaker. but the Corhuskers will be out to give their first real competition of the season a beating. The key to victory will be Notre Dame's defensive ability to limit Crouch and Co. when they're on the field the field. 
FINAL SCOR E: Notre Dame 24 Nebraska 20 
--;i 
Pos. Ht. Wt. YR 1B 6-2 190 JR ROV 5-11 200 JR LCB 5-11 190 SR ROV 5-9 190 so FB 6-0 240 so RCB 5-10 190 JR lB 5-8 205 so QB 6-1 200 SR WB 6-0 195 SR WLB 6-1 210 SR QB 6-2 215 so RRE 6-4 250 so QB 5-11 190 JR LCB 5-9 185 JR SE 6-2 200 so FS/ROV6-l 205 SR QB 6-0 190 so RCB 6-0 185 SR MLB 6-0 220 so RCB 6-0 180 SR SE 6-0 200 JR 
p 
6-0 205 so ROV 5-8 185 SR 1B 5-11 225 so PK 5-8 195 FR WLB 5-11 205 so WB 5-10 190 so RCB 5-10 200 SR lB 5-11 195 so FB 5-10 235 so PK 6-2 190 JR LCB 5-11 175 so FS 6-0 185 so WB 5-10 195 so LCB 5-11 180 so ROV 6-0 205 SR 1B 6-0 225 JR FS 6-2 190 so 

WB 5-10 185 so SE 6-1 190 so ROV 6-1 215 SR SE 5-10 170 so LCB 5-10 190 so WLB 6-0 210 SR FS 6-0 205 SR 1B 5-11 230 so FB 5-10 230 JR SE 5-10 190 .FR WLB 5-11 215 so ROV 6-2 205 so SLB 6-2 235 JR WLB 6-0 205 so MLB 6-1 245 SR FB 6-0 230 SR 0G 6-2 295 so SLB 6-2 230 JR C/S 6-4 285 JR C 6-2 300 JR NT 6-2 280 JR 0G 6-2 290 so OT 6-6 285 SR LRE 6-5 270 JR OT 6-6 305 so OT 6-5 300 SR 0G 6-2 295 JR 0G 6-3 315 so C 6-4 280 so C/OG 6-3 300 SR OLB 6-3 330 JR OT 6-5 330 so NT 6-2 275 SR OT 6-4 325 so OT 6-5 310 JR C/S 6-5 300 JR OT 6-5 310 SR _,._ OT 6-3 310 so 0G 6-4 340 JR DT 6-1 255 so 
0G 6-S 301 JR TE 6-4 250 JR WB 5-10 190 JR TE 6-2 260 so TE 6-3 245 JR DT 6-2 285 SR TE 6-5 245 JR TE 6-5 240 SR RRE 6-4 250 so WB 6-4 220 JR 

,, 
MLB 6-1 245 JR NT 6-4 300 FR LRE 6-4 260 JR OT 6-6 290 so RE 6-4 230 SR LRE 6-5 250 JR RRE 6-2 235 JR TE 6-4 285 JR. 


Oct. 20 Oct. 27 Nov. 3 Nov. 10 Nov. 23 
lexas Tech 0 klahoma at Kansas Kansas St. at Colorado 
INTANGIBLES 
After the Fiesta Bowl fiasco, the Irish are playing with something to prove. However, they're at a disadvan­tage because they haven't played a game yet. But 29 seniors could be enough to balance the lack of gam e experi­ence. 
Plain and simple, the Huskers have the home field advantage. Their Sea of Hed -at night, no less -will be loud, obnoxious, and formidable. It's the biggest game this far for the Huskers, and after a pair of lackluste r games, they want to show they are still a strong team. 
Home-field advantage gives the Huskers the edge in this category. Nebraska fans are roudy enough that the Irish have been piping crowd noise into their practices to prepare for Memorial Stadium. Plus. the Huskers haven't lost in 
· two seasons at home. 

z 
0 
-I 
::a 
ITI 
C 
l>s: 
ITI 
z 
ITI 
m 
::a 
l> 
ti) 
:,:: 
l> 
:I> 
z 
~ 
In
-
ti) 
No. Name 

1 Thunder Collins 2 Aaron Terpening 3 KeyuoCraver 4 Terrell Butler 4 Judd Davies 5 DeJuan Groce 6 DeAntae Grixby 7 Eric Crouch 8 John Gibson 9 Mark Vedral 
10 Jammal Lord 10 Benard Thomas 11 Joe Chrisman 12 Jay White 13 Tim Liley 14 Dion Booker 15 Brett Lindstrom 16 Erwin Swiney 17 TJ Hollowell 18 Jeff Hemje 19 John Klem 19 Kyle Larson 20 Wes Woodward 21 Robin Miller 22 Sandro DeAngelis 23 Blanchard Johnson 23 RyanOmmert 24 Matt Ickes 25 Josh Davis 25 Andy Wingender 26 Josh Brown 26 Kevin Guse 27 Willie Amos 27 Matt Plooster 28 Pat Ricketts 29 Mic Boettner 30 Dahrran Diedrick 31 Jerrell Pippens 31 Fred Thome 32 Kelly Cook 32 Tim Demerath 33 Luke McGowan 33 Seth White 34 Randy Stella 
35 Carl Scholting 36 Tim Reese 37 Paul Kastl 38 Brandon Biodrowski 39 Chad Buller 40 Lannie Hopkins 43 Scott Shanie 46 Anthony Hoke 48 Jamie Burrow 49 Nick Gragert 50 Jon Dawson 51 Gabe Fries 52 John Garrison 53 Matt Shook 55 Jon Clanton 55 Junior Tagoa'i 56 Jeremy Slechta 57 Chris Kelsay 57 Cudy Volk 58 Dave Volk 59 Wes Cody 61 Brian Nelson 63 Jack Limbaugh 66 Jon Rutherford 67 Nate Koltern,an 68 Dan Waldrop 70 Jason Lohr 72 Tim Green 73 Scott Koethe 74 David Kolowski 75 Kyle Kollmorgen 76 Chris Loos 77 Toniu Fonoti 79 Stephen Manning 79 Josh Sewell 80 Will Dabbert 81 Ben Comelsen 82 Phil Peetz 84 Jon Bowling 85 Casey Nelson 86 Kyle Ringenberg 87 Tracey Wistrom 88 Trevor Johnson 89 Troy Hassebroek 90 Tony Tata 91 Manaia Brown 92 Justin Smith 94 Patrick Kabongo 95 J.P. Wichmann 97 Adrian Warrior 98 Dernoine Adams 99 Aaron Golliday 
-· 
r--­
page 6 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 7, 2000 
Players, not history; will decide game 
Can somebody please tell me why Notre Dame is even both­ering to get on the plane to Lincoln, Neb.? 
After all, history is against them­therefore they must not even stand a chance. 
For example, Bob Davie's worst three losses as ahead coach have come in night games that the Irish played on the road. Nebraska has won 15 straight games at Memorial Stadium and as long as the Huskers rush for more than 300 yards. they're guaranteed to win. Since Frank Solich became head coach, Nebraska is 19-0 whenever they break the magical 300 yard barrier. 
But then again, maybe the Irish are taking heart in the fact that, with Davie as the head coach, the Irish have never lost a season opener. And the last time the Huskers won two games in a row, the Irish won the next matchup. So, since Notre Dame lost in the last two meetings -the 1973 Orange Bowl and last year's overtime thriller ­they're guaranteed to win this year. 
Sound ridiculous? That's 


because it is. 
But that doesn't stop some people from predicting that historical statistics will out­weigh what the present team is capable of. For example, let's look at what Anthony Gimino, the CBS Sportsline.com college football editor, wrote in his lat­est column. 
Gimino pointed out that the Irish are 1-5 against teams ranked in the Top 10 (Nebraska is currently No. 4). Ile further pointed out in every one of those losses, Notre Dame's opponent has out­rushed the Irish. Gimino wrote, "Against the weather conditions in FUi. 
"Whatever is going to hap­pen Saturday is going to be based on what happens Saturday, not what happened a week ago or a year ago," said Davie. 
Statistics mean nothing. Games mean everything. If sta­tistics meant so much, then we could just look at Nebraska's record to see how good they'll do this season. Since they're 2­0, they're on pace to be unde­feated. Then again, since the Irish are 0-0, they're on pace to not play a game at all. 
You can't reduce talent level 
of the play­

teams that ers and
Since Nebraska is 2-0,
are bigger, coaches to stronger and, they·re on pace to be mere mnn­particularly, undefeated. Then again, bers. Ifyou 
faster, could, there
since the Irish are o-o,
Davies' dudes would be no 
turn into they 're on pace to not need to play gutty little play a game at all. the game. 
underdogs." 
So.because the Irish didn't outrush Michigan in 1997, Gimino thinks Notre Dame shouldn't bother climbing aboard their jumbo jet to play Nebraska in 2001. 
But Mr. Gimino, why didn't you consider the fact that the Irish are 125-25-4 against schools that begin with the let­ter N? Doesn't that have any meaning? 
The answer is that it matters about as much as the XFL. In fact, the amount ofyards Notre Dame rushed for in 1997 -or any other historical number, for that matter -means about 
as much in Saturday's game as We could 
just use a computer, plug in the different players for each team, and bingo -we'd have a national champion without any arguing. 
But my copy of"NCAA College Football: 2002" isn't quite up to the task, so we're stuck with having to play the games on the field. 
Nobody can say just how much of a liability Notre Dame's secondary will be. Nobody can say how well the Irish defense can shut down Heisman-trophy candidate Eric Crouch. Nobody can say what role the Irish receivers will play in Saturday's contest. 
Why? Because Notre Dame hasn't even played a game yet. And unless you're either a player, a coach, a trainer, a student manager, or someone who climbed the bleachers by the softball field to peer over the fence and watch the Irish practice, you don't know what the Irish plan to do Saturday. 

Rest assured, Bob Davie and Frank Solich. aren't worried about rankings, statistics and predictions. They're too busy trying to figure out how to beat the other team. And no matter how much they think they can try to plan for everything, unexpected situations can still occur. For example, what will Solich do if Crouch gets injured on the first play ofthe game? Absurd? Yes. But it happened last year to Arnaz Battle. 
It's impossible to predict what will happen. But there's no way that looking at histori­cal statistics of past teams will help Davie and Co. win. 
Gimino wrote, "Out-rushing their opponent is what the Irish want to do more than anything." 
Funny. I thought the Irish wanted to win more than any­thing. 
It's going to be a close game Saturday night. It's going to be a good game Saturday night. And there's only one way that will happen. 
Notre Dame just has to get on the plane and play the game. 
Andrew Soukup can be reached at asoukup@nd.edu. The views ofthis column are those of the author and are not necessari­
ly those ofThe Observer. 
game hype 

l '':!!-,.;:.r~ ttr,' -~~,1.~d ' , ,all '
C : 

"<v+ ,,; 
,·,,~···· ,, . ­
t}//T;.­
3 

.. 
.. ,,, 

Bob Davie Irish head coach 
··our 

scrimmages are serious. Its just like a game. ,. 

Eric Crouch Comhusker quarterback 
"Our crowd has been a crowd that has gotten into it and been a factor in games ... "/ don ·t think we have to play per/ect to win, but obviously there·s not much margin for error. ,, 

Tyreo Harrison Irish linebacker 
"Games are a different thing from practice and scrimmages. ,, 


For nearly a century, the name Andersen has been synonymous with integrity. But it's the people behind the name that guarantee the innovation and quality our clients have come to expect. What really sets us apart, though, lies not so much in what we do. But who we are. 
Our strength is our people. Their innovation. Their conviction to do what they say. Are you ready to be a part of something special? Make your move. Forward. It's a great time to be at Andersen. 
University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Seniors: Come see us on campus. 
Andersen Day on Campus 
Tuesday, Sept 11th 2pm -6pm CCE Lower Level Drop by anytime. Snacks served all day; join us for Pizza at 5pm 
Take a few minutes to talk with representatives from Andersen -and take control of your future. Register to win a Palm Pilot and other prizes. Casual attire -bring a copy of your resume listing your location preference. We look forward to seeing you. 
Remember to sum bit your resume online at GO IRISH by September 16th to be considered for our October 3 on-campus interviews. 
ANDERSEN 
www.andersen.com/careers 
©2001 Andersen. All rights reserved. Andersen is an equal opportunity employer. 

Friday, Septen1ber 7, 2001 A LOOK AT THIS WEEKEND'S COLLEGE FOOTBALL ACTION page 7 
Associated Press Top 25 
team  record  points  
1  Miami (37)  1·0  1,737  
2  Florida (19)  1-0  1,721  
3  Oklahoma (10)  2-0  1,633  
4  Texas (4)  1-0  1,482  
5  Nebraska (2)  2·0  1,474  
6  Florida State  1-0  1,458  
7  Oregon  1-0  1,357  
8  Tennessee  1-0  1,355  
g  Virginia Tech  1-0  1,200  
10  Georgia Tech  2-0  988  
11  Michigan  1-0  963  
12  Kansas State  0-0  943  
13  lSU  1-0  861  
14  UCLA  1-0  809  
15  Washington  0-0  728  
16  Northwestern  0-0  674  
17  NOTRE DAME  0-0  604  
18  Mississippi St.  1-0  571  
19  Fresno State  2-0  554  
20  Clemson  1-0  524  
21  South Carolina  1-0  422  
22  Oregon State  0-1  293  
23  Wisconsin  1-1  208  
24  Ohio State  0-0  189  
25  Georgia  1-0  129  

ESPN/USA Today poll 
team record points 
1 Florida (26) 1-0 1,439 2 Miami (22) 1-0 1,423 3 Oklahoma 2-0 1,370 4 Nebraska 2-0 1,248 5 Florida State 1-0 1,244 6 Texas 1-0 1,184 7 Tennessee 1-0 1,090 8 Oregon (1) 1-0 1,083 9 Virginia Tech 1-0 985 10 Michigan 1-0 879 11 Kansas State 0-0 850 12 Oregon State 0-1 826 13 Georgia Tech 2-0 684 
14 '"""'UCLA , 1·0 676 15 Washington 0-0 632 16 LSU 1-0 594 17 NOTRE DAME 0-0 527 18 Mississippi St. 1-0 489 19 Clemson 1-0 480 20 Northwestern 0-0 365 21 South Carolina 1-0 285 22 Ohio State 0-0 260 23 Wisconsin 1·1 132 24 Georgia 1-0 105 25 Purdue 1-0 88 
Eye on Irish Opponents 
Saturday Western Michigan at MICHIGAN STATE (0-0) SOUTH FLORIDA at PITTSBURGH (0-0) Ohio at WEST VIRGINIA (0-1) Kansas State at USC (1-0) STANFORD (0-0) at BOSTON COLLEGE (1-0) TENNESSEE (1-0) at Arkansas NAVY (0-1) at Georgia Tech 
Off 
PURDUE (1-0} 
around the dial 

Notre Dame at Nebraska North Carolina at Texas Fresno State at Wisconsin 
7 p.m., ABC 11 a.m., ABC 11 a.m., ESPN 
Western Michigan at Virginia Tech 
11 a.m., ESPN2 
Michigan at Washington 
2:30 p.m., ABC 
Alabama at Florida State 
4:30 p.m., ESPN2 
GAME OF THE WEEK 

By GREG LADKY 
Spons Writer 

Big Ten and Pac-Ten powerhouses collide for the second straight week as the No. 11 Wolverines travel to Seattle to take on the No. 15 Huskies. The Pac-Ten won round one last week with Oregon's thrilling 31-28 victory against Wisconsin. This game could be as exciting. 
The Wolverines were unimpressive in their 31­13 victory against Miami (Ohio) last weekend. Michigan led 17 -6 well into the fourth quarter. 
Twenty-one of the Wolverines points came off three interceptions. John Navarre, the heir apparent to New York Yankees farmhand and former Michigan quarter­back Drew Henson, went 19-32 for 205 yards and one touchdown. Running back B.J. Askew, who totaled 94 yards on 20 carries last week, told reporters that their play was, "not good enough for next week." 
Both teams' strength lies in defense. The Wolverines have a top­flight linebacker corps, headed by Larry Foote and Victor Hobson. The 
OTHER TOP GAMES 
Kansas State at USC 
Kansas State is notorious for its weak non-conference scheduling over the years. However, on Saturday the No. 12 Wildcats open their season at Southern California. 
USC tried to end its curse of bad coaching by hiring for­mer NFL coach Pete Carroll and offensive coordinator Norm Chow, an expert at developing quarterbacks. The Trojans have a great one in future first rounder Carson Palmer. 
Palmer threw for a modest 213 yards in USC's 21-10 vic­tory over San Jose State last weekend. Running back Sultan Mccullough dominated with 167 yards rushing and all three Trojan touchdowns. 
Kansas State went 11-3 last year. They join Florida State as the only programs to win 11 games in each of the last four seasons. Overall, the Wildcats are unproven and inex­perienced. Receiver/returner Aaron Lockett and linebacker Ben Leber are the leaders on this team. 
As with West Virginia last week, teams often struggle when adjusting to a new coach. The Trojans need to improve from last week's play to beat the Wildcats. Kansas State special teams are always awesome. The Trojans need to be careful not to allow a big special teams play that changes the momentum of the game. 
defense has the responsi­bility of carrying the team as the offense matures. 
This is Washington's season opener. The Huskies went 11-1 last year and defeated Purdue 34-24 in the Rose Bowl. Many experts feel the Huskies belonged in the national Championship game. They handed the Miami Hurricanes their only loss of the 2000 sea­son. However, their star quarterback Marcus Tuiasosopo is gone to the pros. No team in the country lost a more important player. Cody Pickett beat out Tyler Barton to take Tuiasosopo's place. 
The Huskies will also rely on the defense. Larry Triplett, a 6-1 300 pound nose tackle, has graced every college football publication's pre-season­All-American team. He is one of the most dominat­ing players in college football. 

Several questions loom on offense for both teams. Expect a defensive struggle. One big play can certainly decide the out­come of the game. The team that protects the -­football and plays the best defense should pre­vail. 
Fresno State as Wisconsin 
-
The BCS hopes the No. 23 Badgers win this football game. If No. 19 Fresno State wins, they could run the table this year. The BCS does not want an undefeated WAC team complaining they deserve to play for the national championship. The Bulldogs have certainly earned a spot so far with impressive victories against Colorado and Oregon State. 
Quarterback David Carr and receiver Rodney Wright put on a pass and catch clinic Sunday night in Fresno State's 44-24 victory over then 10th-ranked Oregon State. Carr completed 21 of 34 for 340 yards and four touchdowns. Wright grabbed seven for 182 yards and two touchdowns. 
The Badgers are now Big Ten favorites with their near upset of Oregon last weekend. Jim Sorgi will remain at quarterback. He threw for 231 yards last 
-
week, 168 of them to Lee Evans. · The Bulldogs are a very physical team, not normal for the WAC. However, it is tough to go toe to toe against a Big Ten powerhouse. Fresno State needs 
another great performance out of Carr. The Badgers 
-
usually play tough defense at home and will look to run over the Bulldogs. 
1 . 

1 ; F ~ ·,
! ,_ 
I 
' l 
' 
\ I 

0 

• • Thursday, September 6, 2001 
0 
0 
0 

Free Billiards 
0 

8:30 pm to 12:00 mid in Nd Express in Lafortune Student Center. For more 0 information visit www.nd.edu/-sao/ 
0 
0 

0 Acoustic Cafe 
0 0 

9:00 pm-12:00 mid in the Huddle. Sponsored by the Student Union Board 
D 
0 

· Pearl Harbor 
0 

10:00 pm in DeBartolo 101, admission $3.00. Sponsored by the Student Union 
0 
Board 
0 

0 0 Saving Private Ryan
0 

0 10:00 pm in DeBartolo 155, admission $2.00. Sponsored by the Student Union 0 Board 
0 
0

0 0 Friday, September 7, 2001 
0 0 

Pearl Harbor 
0 7:00 pm and 10:30 pm in DeBartolo 101, admission $3.00. Sponsored by the Student 0 0 Union Board 
0 0 Saving Private Ryan 
0 

7:30 pm and 10:00 pm in DeBartolo 155, admission $2.00. Sponsored by the Student 
0 Union Board 0 
0 ·Free Billiards 
8:30 pm to 12:00 mid in ND Express in Lafortune Student Center. For more 
0 0 0 information visit www.nd.edu/~sao/ 
0 

Matthew West
0 
0 

0 9:00 p.m. SUB presents vocalist and songwriter Matthew West in this first 0 Loft Show. Lafortune Student Center Ballroom 

0 0 ND Crafting Corner-Decorate your own doormat 
9:00 pm to 11:00pm in the Dooley Room in Lafortune Student Center. For more in­0 formation visit www.nd.edu/ ~sao/ crafting 
0 

Tournament Time-Bingo
0 

0 Bingo from 11:00 pm to 1:30 am in the Notre Dame Room. For more information visit 0 www .nd.edu/ ~sao/tourament 
0 

0 0 Saturday, September 8, 2001 
0 
0 
0 

Nebraska Game Watch 
0 
0 

Games starts at 6:15 pm outside on North Quad (rain location Lafortune Ball­
00 -room). Sponsored by the Student Union Board and Student Government
0 
0 
0 

Pearl Harbor 
0 

0 0 8:00 pm and 11:30 pm in DeBartolo 101, admission $3.00. Sponsored by the Stu­0 dent Union Board 
0 

0 Saving Private Ryan 0 
7:30 pm and 10:00 pm in DeBartolo 155, admission $2.00 0 Sponsored by the Student Union Board 
0
0 

Karaoke and Music 
0 
0 

0 10:00 pm to 1:00 am in the Huddle in Lafortune Student Center 
I 
'
I ,. 0 For more information visit www.nd.edu/~sao/music
0 

I} 0 
I Clover Comedy Club-Tim Young
I\ 0 
ii 11 0 0 Immediately following the Nebraska Game Watch in the Barlroom of LaFortune 
• 
• 
0 
0 
0 
0 0 0 
0 
0 
0 0 
0 
0
0 
0 0 
0 
0 0 
0 0 
0 
0 0 0 0 0 
0 
0 0 
0 0 
0 
0 
0 0 
0 0 
0 0 
0 
0
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 0 
0 0 
0 
0 0 0 0 0 
0 
0 
0 
0 0 
0 
0 
0 0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0
0 
0 0 
0 
0 
0 0 0 
0 
0 0 0 0 
0
0 
0 0 
0 

!f 0 Student Center. For more information visit www.nd.edu/-sao/comedy 0 
I, 0 0 
0 0 0
• • Questions?? Contact the Student Activities Office at 631-7308 or visit
• 0
l", 0 
www.nd.edu/ ~sao for more information. 0
t 
• 0 • • • • • • 0
i • • • • • • • 0 • • • 0 
• • • • • • • • 0 0 
0 

• • • • • 0 • • • • • 0 0 0
• • • 0 
_. ·1 .. .,., ... 






